FARM^naHOME^ 




Aj<r ED 



HOUSEREBPBKS ASSISTANT 




ORANGE- JUDD COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD MASS CHICAGO ILL NEWYORKNY 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBI^RY 

Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^r--V- ■--■,,- , ,, 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912, 





ALBERT R. MANN 

LIBRARY 

AT 

CORNELL UNINERSIIY 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086745597 



FARM AND HOME 

COOK BOOK 

and 

Housekeeper's Assistant 



Compiled and Edited 

by 

ADELINE O. GOESSLING 



mi 



THE PHELPS PUBLISHING CO. 

Springfield, Mass. 

New York Chicago 



Copyright, 1907, by 

THE PHELPS PUBLISfflNG COMPANY 



The World's Heroine 



The world Is always praising 
All the great folk of the time-— 

The poets and musicians, and 
The ministers sublime; 

But to earth's greatest heroine 
They never cast a look; 

Jll tell you who she is, at once — • 
">The blessed household cook. 

We hear a lot of lauding for 

The man who gbea to war. 
The artist and the sculptor. 

The poet and his lore. 
The lawyer and Inventor, and 

The author's famous book; 
But we never hear a word abQUj: 

The blessed household cook. 

Perhaps you think she Isn't wortli 

The praise that I would give; 
But, without her ceaseless kindness^ 

Pray, how long would you live? 
We all woul^ soon expire, if 

Of food we ne'er partook; 
So I raise my hat In honor of 

The blessed household cook. 

She saves the lives of thousands. 

By her duties every day, 
Though she does it in a simple 

And unnoticed, quiet way. 
But when I am an author, 

I shall surely write a book 
About the Queen of womankind — 

The worthjr household cook. 

— [Alice' M. Jones, JMaine. 




"Good cooks are bom, not made, they say; 

The saying is most untrue. 

Hard trying and these fine recipes 

WUl make good cooks of you." 






Love and indigestion have no affinity one for another. On 
the other hand, carelessly selected, improperly cooked food 
and indigestion are twin souls. The moral is vivid. If love 
Is to be kept as a permanent dweller in the home the door 
must be barred against indigestion. So the sensible young 
yfite begins to study the first principles of cooking. — [Marjr 
Jane McClure. 




INTRODUQTION 

ANY and various are the cook books no^ 
on the market, but few, if any, are plain, 
practical, thorough, and complete enough 
for all-around use and every-day reference, 
in farm homes — in families where plain 
tastes and limited means forbid extravagant 
or fancy culinary indulgences and the accompanying 
unnecessary expenditure of time and labor. 

This book is intended especially and primarily for farm 
cooks, though it will be found equally useful and helpful in 
the city kitchen where economy is an object. It is of course 
understood that country or farm housekeepers have many 
advantages their town sisters lack, such as fresh fruits, 
vegetables, poultry, eggs, milk, cream and butter, which 
naturally cannot always be had in city markets, where even 
inferior grades of produce are high priced. In the average 
farm kitchen such things are considered necessities, not 
luxuries, and are accepted quite as a matter of course. 
How true it is that blessings brighten when they take their 
flight, as many an ex-country housewife could testify. 

But in spite of the many advantages which the farm 
cook enjoys, it is a deplorable fact that poor cooks are not 
confined to city limits. It is a pity that there should be 
any poor cooks, in city or country, since the art of plain 
and wholesome cooking is an easy one to master and yet 
means so much in the life economy of working people, who 
in turn are of the utmost importance in the grand scheme 
of life. 

Some women do not seem to realize that very intimate 
relations exist between their own kitchens and the despised 
liquor saloons. Poor cooks have done more to drive men 
to strong drink than all the female temperance lecturers in 
the world can ever hope to redeem. To accomplish the 
most effective work for the cause of temperance, health and 
happiness, it is therefore necessary that women should first 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



4>f all leam how to properly prepare palatable and nourish- 
ing food which will so well satisfy the natural cravings of 
the average human stomach that artificial and harmful 
stimulants will not be required. 

We should eat intelligently. Food and drink are to 
the human machine what fuel and oil are to the mechanical. 
An engine could not get up sufficient steam to pull a big 
load on a few sticks of soft wood or scraps of paper, and 
a working man cannot get up sufficient ambition to make 
the most of his opportunities on some slices of greasy 
salt pork, with soggy potatoes and a few heavy biscuits 
or doughnuts on the side. 

It is poor economy to send all the milk and cream 
and eggs, and the best vegetables, fruit and poultry to 
market. Farm folk themselves deserve the best of what 
they raise, and they should have it, too. If they wilfully 
deprive themselves, the doctors and druggists will eventu- 
ally get the mbney they saved (?) by selling all their best 
food products and living on the husks themselves. Besides, 
pills and tonics are not nearly so palatable and healthful 
as eggs and cream, and fruit and vegetables. 

So it all comes around to this point, that it pays to 
eat good food, and that it is the housewife's duty to know 
how to prepare it, after the "good man" has labored to 
provide the necessary material. The penalties cf over-eat- 
ing are too well known to need any special mention. It 
has been aptly said that many people dig their graves with 
their teeth. The penalties of over-work are also well 
known, and it therefore behooves the cook to so plan and 
regulate her culinary activities that that department of her 
housekeeping will not take up an undue amount of her 
time or strength. 

It is hoped that this little cook book will induce house- 
wives to try an occasional change in their usual daily bill 
of fare. The introduction of some variety will make the 
cook's work less monotonous and is likely to be appreciated 
by other members of the family as well. In warm weather 
endeavor to avoid as much as possible heavy foods that heat 
the blood. For doughnuts, mince pies and pork, substitute 
fruits, salads, and vegetables, and eat but sparingly of meat. 



INTRODUCTION 9 



Entire wheat, graham, corn and rye bread are better than 
the white bread and ought to be served oftener. The 
virtues of milk, and fresh buttermilk ought not to be over- 
looked either, and they might with advantage frequently 
serve as substitutes for boiled coffee and over-steeped tea, 
which are decidedly detrimental to health. 

Amateur cooks and beginners who are ambitious to 
extend their knowledge in the culinary line need not neces- 
sarily learn by bitter experience alone. Almost every 
State Agricultural College has connected with it a depart- 
ment of Domestic Science, which issues bulletins peri- 
odically, containing much useful information, being the 
cream of many experiments and researches. Some of these 
departments conduct correspondence courses for farmers' 
wives, and the Department of Agriculture at Washington, 
D. C, will send free of charge to anyone who asks for 
them, bulletins on the values and chemical composition of 
various food stuffs. The government and state departments 
of agriculture are generally able and always willing to help 
the farmer and his wife, because they are there to help 
them. Don't be backward about asking for information. 

The editor of this unique little cook book begs the 
indulgence of all who may become possessed of a copy. 
She does not claim to "know it all," and in this instance 
has confined herself chiefly to the task of picking out frqm 
among a million good recipes, kindly contributed by the good 
cook readers of "Farm and Home," such as seemed the best 
and the most deserving of finding a place in the "Farm and 
Home Cook, Book." 

A glance through the index will prove that there is no 
lack of variety, and every woman who is represented in 
this book with one or more recipes has reason to be proud 
of being found in such good company. The editor extends 
hearty thanks to each and every one for the kindly and 
intelligent co-operation which helped to make this book 
possible, and that in turn, it is hoped, will help out many 
sister cooks all over this broad land of ours, where "Farm 
and Home" is a welcome visitor, when confronted with the 
problem, "what shall I cook, for a change?" 



Reci^ for a Good Appetite 

A. task to do, be it great or small, 
'A cheerful heart with a smile for all; 
Faith in the good and love for our brother. 
The wish to help, and not hinder each others 
Banishing useless worry and care, 
Seasoning work with a song and a prayer; 
Helping the old world on the right way. 
Doing and growing a little each day, 

' — Celia Parker Woolley. 




Bread, Rolls, Buns and Toast 

"Back of the loaf is the snowy flour, 

And back of the flour, the mill. 
Back of the mill is the wheat and the shower 

And the sun, and the Father's will." 

N the culinary line there is nothing more 
important than to know how to prepare and 
bake good, wholesome bread — "the staff of 
life." The dry, tasteless composition mis- 
called bread by some anxious-to-get-rich- 
quick professional bakers, and by don't-know- 
how housewives, is calculated to make one place undue 
emphasis on the old saying that "man cannot live on bread 
alone." As a matter of fact, such stuff is not only 
unpalatable, but also lacks the nutritive elements bread ought 
to have, being made of poor flour and deprived of what- 
ever little good there may have been in the flour by 
ignorant or careless handling and baking. And yet, really 
good, wholesome, nutritious and palatable bread is not 
expensive nor difficult to make. On the contrary, the art 
can be easily learned by any one who is willing and anxious 
to learn, be she a wholly inexperienced beginner or a dis- 
couraged amateur, desirous of improving. That our farm 
cooks know how to bake bread is fully attested by the fol- 
lowing delightful variety of recipes: 

The Ingredients of Bread 

Four of the simplest ingredients in the culinary laboratory 
enter into the composition of a loaf of bread; yet the changes 
through which these materials pass before a finished loaf is 
evolved are the most complicated in all cookery. The four 
ingredients that enter into a loaf of bread are flour, yeast, 
salt and liquid. Milk or water, or a part of each, may com- 
prise the latter. Bread made with milk is more nutritious, 
but it dries more quickly than does bread in which water Is 
used. The texture of milk bread, even with slight kneading, 
is velvelty and pleasing. Half milk and half water Is quite 
generally used. Water bread, without shortening, carefully 

11 



12 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



manipulated, gives a loaf of nutty flavor, but with, tough, crust. 
"Water, with two tablespoons shortening to the pint, is more 
generally preferred by American housekeepers. Opinions 
differ as to just what properties good bread should possess. 
Some wish a moist crumb and tender crust, others a dry crumb 
and a flinty crust. But there are certain points upon which 
all agree; namely, bread should be agreeable in smell and 
taste, while it should be light and porous, and the loaf should 
keep in good condition several days. — [J. McK. H. 

• About the Flour 

The prime requisite for good bread is good flour. Without 
good flour the best cook cannot possibly make good bread. 
Obviously, it is poor economy to buy the poorer grades of 
flour, and if your local dealer cannot or will not furnish you 
with the best, send an order to the nearest town or city, and 
insist upon getting the right kind. Flour made from inferior 
wheat or wheat that has been exposed to moisture produces a 
heavy, moist bread, which moulds quickly. 

To test bread flour, according to Mrs. Rorer, make a small 
ball of dough from flour and water, knead well, as for bread, 
and then quickly break the ball or biscuit in half. It should 
break with a crack, but if it is poor flour it will first pull and 
stretch and finally break without a sound. Another test is to 
take a handful of flour, close the hand tightly, then open it,' 
and if the flour falls apart and does not pack, it is good for 
bread or biscuits. The color should be a rich, creamy tint — ■ 
blue-white or greyish tints indicate poor, cheap flour. 

Pastry flour should never be used for bread, biscuits or 
muffins, but only for fine pastry, cakes and similar light mix- 
tures that do not require kneading. Genuine pastry flour is 
a pale, yellowish white, fine and starchy, and will easily retain 
the form of the hand upon pressure. It is usually sold in small 
boxes or bags, but very seldom, if ever, in bulk, to retailers.' 
The only permissible substitute for genuine pastry flour, when 
that cannot be obtained, is a soft, winter-wheat flour. 

Whole wheat flour Is of a dark, brown color, rather coarse," 
and should be free from bran, which is the outside coat of the 
wheat. All the other nutritive parts of the wheat grain are 
retained in the whole wheat flour, while only the inner por- 
tions are used for the fine white flour, which lacks many of 
the more nutritious elements. Bread made from whole wheat 
flour is considered by physicians to be the best diet for young 
and old — especially those suffering from weak digestion, for 
nursing mothers and for those inclined to be anaemic, espe- 
cially children inclined to rickets, and those whose teeth show 
signs of early decay, as whole wheat is rich in alkaline phos- 
phates. 



THE BREAD DOUGH IS 



Again, according to Mrs. Rorer, most graham flour sold ia 
our markets is composed of a little white flour and a goodly- 
quantity of bran, mixed with a certain proportion of "shorts" 
or "middlings." These particles being indestructible, graham 
bread therefore cannot be recommended very highly for steady 
consumption. 

Experienced housewives know that flour varies in its 
capacity to absorb moisture, and that therefore no recipe can 
indicate exactly the necessary amount of flour to be used. A 
little practice, perseverance and common sense will soon teach 
ambitious beginners the methods which will produce best 
results. 

About Kneading Bread Dough 

Stir suificient flour into the sponge to make a dough that 
may be turned on to a board sprinkled with flour; then flour 
the hands. Draw the dough farthest from you over into the 
center several times, and then turn the whole mass half 
around. Draw it again from the opposite side toward the 
center; and press it down either with the fingers or the ball 
of the hand, then half turn again, and repeat this, with a sort 
of rocking motion, until the dough has been thoroughly and 
evenly kneaded. This will take at least 15 minutes. At first 
you must add flour, just a little at a time; but after the dough 
has lost its stickiness, knead it on a dry board. When it 
ceases to stick on pressure, the kneading may be discontinued. 
> — [Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

When the bread dough becomes elastic and loses its stick- 
iness, it has been kneaded sufficiently long and is ready for its 
first raising. Kneading is really the most important part of 
bread making. In most households, the hands are used for 
this purpose. Good and inexpensive bread mixers can now 
be had which save three-quarters of the labor in bread mak- 
ing. — [A. G., Mass. 

Good Bread Without Kneading 

I find that the chief secret of good bread is mixing the dough 
soft. Use any favorite bread recipe, but use more wetting. 
Mix it so soft that you can easily beat it with a strong spoon — 
so soft that you cannot handle the dough except with well 
floured hands, and so soft that you cannot shape it into round 
loaves. I mix bread in a large granite-ware pail, cover with a 
tin cover, and wrap the whole thing snugly In an old com- 
forter, set it on top of a high stool, which in turn I place upon 
the top of a chair, and put all in a warm corner of the room. 
This arrangement keeps the draughts off, and as the upper lay- 
ers of air in the room are the warmest it secures for the bread 
a uniform degree of warmth throughout the whole process of 
fermentation. This is not always easy to get, particularly In 



14 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

■winter. In the morning I turn the dough into nicely buttered 
bread tins, smear the top with melted butter, and let stand 
until it is double in bulk. Have the oven pretty hot for the first 
20 or 30 minutes, and then reduce the heat somewhat. This 
gives a deliciously crisp crust. — [Mrs. W. J. T., Vt. 

About the Baking 

The baking of the bread is of the greatest importance, as the 
yeast plant must during the baking process be thoroughly 
killed. Otherwise it is capable of setting up fermentation in 
the stomach. If the oven is too hot and the loaves large, the 
crust surrounding will prevent the heat from penetrating to 
the center of the loaf. Such bread is very unwholesome. There 
are several ways of testing the oven without a thermometer. 
The old-fashioned baker's method was to throw flour on the 
floor of the oven and if it browned up after 3 minutes without 
taking fire, the oven was sufficiently heated. The ordinary 
cook will hold her hand in the oven while she slowly counts 
twenty. If you have an Indicator on your oven, the hand 
should register 8. When the bread is done, it should immedi- 
ately be removed from the pans and tipped up so that the air 
may circulate freely around each loaf. Do not cover the 
bread even with a light cloth, as in this way the moisture is 
held, destroying the crispness of the crust, and making the 
center rather heavy. — [Mrs. S. T. E. 

To Hake Yeast Without Teast 

On Monday morning boil 2 ozs hops in 4 qts water % hour, 
strain, and when the liquor is lukewarm add a small handful 
ealt and % lb brown sugar. Mix % lb flour to a smooth paste 
with some of the liquor and then mix all well together and let 
«tand till Wednesday, then add 3 lbs raw potatoes, grated, 
mix well and let stand till Thursday. It should be stirred 
frequently and stand in a warm place. When baking bread 
you will find that it will not require more than % of this 
yeast as compared to other yeast. — [Mrs. N. E. W., Mo. 

Fresh Yeast 

To 4 large tablesp hot mashed potatoes add % teasp salt, 
1 teasp sugar, and hot water enough to make a thin batter. 
When lukewarm, add 1 cake compressed yeast, thoroughly dis- 
solved in a little lukewarm water. Stir well and set In a warm 
place to rise over night. I always make yeast fresh the day 
before I bake bread. This insures sweet, delicious bread, witb 
no sour taste. — [L. M.. N. Y. 



HOMEMADE YEASTS IE 



Perpetual Yeast 

Dissolve 1 cake compressed yeast in 1 pt lukewarm unsalted 
•water la whioli potatoes were boiled. Mix well, add % cub 
sugar, stir thoroughly, pour into a 2-qt glass jar, cover loosely, 
and then let stand in a warm place over night. Next morning 
it will be a foaming mass. Put the rubber on the can, screw 
the cover down tight and set away in a cool place. When 
ready to make bread, pour into the can of yeast foam prepared 
as above, 1 pt lukewarm water in which potatoes were cooked, 
mix well, and then stir in ^, cup sugar. Let the can stand 
open in a warm place about 5 hours, or until the contents are 
very light and foamy. Then stir it down and use 1 pt of the 
mixture for raising four loaves of bread. Put the rubber and 
cover on the jar again and keep in a cool place. Some of this 
yeast may be used once or twice a week, or every night, by; 
adding fresh potato water and sugar as described above. — > 
[Mrs. C. E. A., N. H. 

Potato Yeast 

To 1 qt hot, unsalted, mashed potatoes, add 1 qt hot un< 
salted water in which the potatoes were boiled, and a paste 
made of 3 tablesp flour and a little cold water. Beat well, and 
then add 3 tablesp sugar, 2 tablesp salt and 1 pt cold water. 
. When this mixture is lukewarm, add 1 cake compressed yeast, 
thoroughly dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Let stand 
in a warm place until light, and when light, use as much of 
this yeast as you have water — 1 qt yeast and 1 qt water with 
flour enough to knead to the proper consistency will make 
about flve or six loaves of bread. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Baw Potato Yeast 

Peel and grate 5 medium sized raw potatoes, put in a gal 
crock and add % cup each salt and sugar, and stir it well, 
then pour in boiling water, stirring constantly until the mix- 
ture thickens. Stir or beat with a spoon occasionally while 
allowing it to cool, and when lukewarm add % pt old yeast 
or % cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water. Set away in a warm place until light. — [Mrs. D, L. A., 
Ore. 

Hop and Baw Potato Yeast 

Boil a handful of hops In 1 qt water, then strain, pour the 
liquid in a jar and add to it 1 cup .sugar, % cup salt, 1 lev^ 
tablesp ginger and 8 medium sized raw potatoes, grated. Mix 
well, and when lukewarm, add 2 cakes compressed yeast, thor- 
oughly dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Cover and lei 



16 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Stand in a warm place till light, then seal and keep in a cool 
place. One cup of this will be plenty for three loaves of bread. 
Shake the jar well before using this yeast. — [Mrs. B. B. G., 
Mass. 

Battermilk Yeast Cakes 

Scald 1 qt fresh buttermilk but do not let it boil, and while 
It is scalding hot sift in about 1% qts white corn meal mixed 
with 1 teasp salt. Stir vigorously, and when the mixture Is 
lukewarm stir in 1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water. Set away in a warm place to rise, and when 
the mixture has become very light, stir it down again. Do 
this three times and then add more corn meal and flour sufll- 
cient to make the mass stiff enough so it will stick together and 
can be easily handled. Form into small cakes and let them 
dry. — [L. M.. N. Y. 

Tanzy Yeast 

Boil together in 1 pt water, 1 large potato, and about 10 
tanzy leaves. When the potato is soft, skim out the tanzy 
leaves, mash the potato fine and when lukewarm stir in 2 
tablesp flour and 1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in a lit- 
tle lukewarm water, 1 tablesp sugar and 1 teasp salt. Set 
away in a warm place until light and foamy, then stir in about 
1 % pts white corn meal. It should be quite stiff. Roll out on 
a well floured board, about % inch thick, cut in 1-inch 
squares, and dry. Store in sealed paper bags and hang in a 
cool place. Use one of these cakes for three loaves of bread. — « 
[Mrs. M. McC, Kan. 

Jag Yeast 

Wash and peel 6 medium sized potatoes, cut Into quarters 
and boil until soft. While the potatoes are cooking, steep a 
handful of hops in 1 pt water. When the potatoes are well 
done, mash them fine, sift over them 1 pt flour, add % pt 
sugar and scant %, pt salt. Mix well and then pour over this 
the hot water in which the potatoes were cooked and the 
strained water in which the hops were steeped, and beat all 
well together until smooth. Then add enough water to make 
1 gal in all. When lukewarm add 2 cakes compressed yeast, 
thoroughly dissolved in a little Iftkewarm water. Stir well and 
set away In a warm place until it ferments and Is light, then 
pour in a, jug, cork tightly, and keep in cool place. Use about 
% pt of this yeast for a baking of bread. — [Mrs. H. C. H., 
CoL 



WHITE RAISED BREAD 17 



Homemade Baking Powder 

To 1 lb and 2 ozs cream tartar add % lb bi-carbonate of 
soda and U, lb fine cornstarch. Mix well and sift through 
a very fine sieve at least six times to be sure that the ingredi- 
ents are evenly distributed. All the ingredients must be dry, 
and the baking powder should be kept in a close tin, and set 
away in a dry place. Weigh the ingredients exactly, accord- 
ing to the above given quantities. Too much s'oda will cause 
yellow or brown spots to appear in the batters where this bak- 
ing powder is used, and besides being unpalatable, when too 
much soda is used it hinders digestion. — [A. G., Mass. 

White Bread 

At noon, when the potatoes are cooked for dinner, select 
3 about the size of an egg, mash very fine, add 1 level tablesp 
salt, 2 of sugar and 3 of flour. Mix all well together, then 
add scant % cup boiling water, stirring vigorously, and when 
lukewarm add % cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water. Stir the mixture well, cover and let stand 
in a warm place. In the evening scald 2 cups sweet milk, 
pour it into the mixing pan, add 2 cups cold water, and when 
lukewarm add the light yeast mixture, and mix stiff with warm 
flour. Turn out on the bread board and mould into a large 
loaf, kneading about 10 or 15 minutes; then return to the mix- 
ing bowl, cover, and set in a warm place over night. In the 
morning knead it down and divide into three loaves. Put into 
greased tins, and set in a warm place to rise until they have 
doubled in bulk. Bake one hour in a moderately hot oven. — 
[Mrs. B. G., N. Y. 

Yeast Bread (Compressed Yeast) 

At noon pour 1 qt water from the boiled potatoes over 1 
cup granulated sugar and let stand till lukewarm, then add 1 
compressed yeast cake, stir well, cover, and set in a warm place 
until next morning. Put 2 qts warm sifted bread flour in the 
mixing pan, make a hole in the middle, put in % cup sugar, a 
little salt, and a small piece of lard, then add 1 pt yeast as 
prepared above, and 1 qt lukewarm water. Stir well, cover 
and set in a warm place to rise. When light and foamy, mix 
stiff, adding more flour if necessary, and knead from 5 to 15 
minutes or longer. Let rise again, and when light shape into 
small loaves, but do not add any more flour. Place in dripping 
pans so the loaves just touch, brush with melted lard, and set 
to rise in a warm place. When light, but not too light (it 
should be no more than double in bulk), bake in a hot oven 
about 50 minutes. When done, take out, brush over with 
melted butter, cover with a light clean cloth and let cool. 
Keep the balance of the prepared yeast in a jar in a cool place. 



18 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and the next time, the day before you wish to bake, start the 
yeast as before, only use the remaining prepared yeast, instead 
of the compressed.— [Mrs. B. McC, N. Y. 

White Bread (Perpetual Yeast) 

For four loaves bread use 3 qts flour, 1 scant qt lukewarm 
water, 1 tablesp salt and 1 pt perpetual yeast. (See perpe'-ual 
yeast recipe.) Knead the dough until thoroughly mixed, rub 
the outside of the mass with a tablesp lard, or lard and butter, 
put in a bowl, cover, and set in a warm place to rise over night. 
Next morning mould into loaves, let stand in a warm place 1 
hour, and when light bake 1 hour in a hot oven. — [Mrs. C. B. 
A.. N. H. 

Potato Yeast Bread 

Sift 3 qts warm flour in a warm mixing bowl with 1 tablesp 
salt, % tablesp sugar and % tablesp lard, then add 1 pt potato 
yeast, and 3 pts lukewarm water. Knead thoroughly, set in a 
warm place, and let rise over night. Next morning mould into 
loaves, set in a warm place until it has doubled in bulk, and 
then bake. — [Mrs. D. L. A., Ore. 

Hop Yeast Bread 

After tea time make a thin sponge with warm flour, 3 pts 
warm water and 1 cup hop yeast. Cover and let stand 2 hours 
in a warm place until light; then knead into a loaf, cover, and 
let stand in a warm place over night. In the morning mould 
into three loaves, let rise, and when light bake 1 hour. Have the 
oven quite hot when the loaves are first put in, and gradually 
moderate the heat. — [M. D., O. 

About "Salt Rising" or "Emptyings" 

This sponge or leavening is made by fermenting flour and 
water or milk without the addition of ordinary yeast. The true 
conditions of this fermentation are not exactly known. Judg- 
ing from the odor produced, bacteria 'play an important part 
in the "fermentation." Then, too, the wild yeast plants of the 
air find this an exceedingly good resting place, and grow with 
great rapidity. Whether or not this bread is wholesome, is an 
open question. We know this, that in a perfectly clean room 
(and by this we mean a room surgically clean, one free as nearly 
as possible from all germ contaminations) it is almost impossi- 
ble to make good "emptyings." Carry the basin from this room 
to one where the floor is covered with carpet, especially if the 
carpet has not been carefully cleaned or shaken recently, and 
almost immediately you will have a pitcher full of foaming 
"emptyings." We fully realize that many persons have eaten 
bread made after this method for years, and are, perhaps, in 
fairly good health. The question is, then, what would they have 



SALT RISING BREAD 19 

been i£,«instead, they had always used good bread? The effect 
of heat upon bread greatly Influences its digestibility. "Salt 
rising" bread will not bake as easily or quickly as that made 
with yeast. The crust is always light and soft, and the crumb 
moist; seeming to hold much more water than other breads. 
This sponge, made from the wild yeast floating in the air, and 
unwholesome yeasts used in bread making, are the frequent 
causes of indigestion. This bread then should be used but 
sparingly, if a,t all. — [Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Salt Rising Bread I 

To 1 small cup new milk add 1 scant cup boiling water, and 
stir into this 1 large cup white corn meal, and enough flour to 
make as thick as cake batter, 1 tablesp sugar, % teasp salt, 
and a small pinch of soda. Set away in a moderately warm 
place over night. In the morning it will be light. Stir in a 
little warm water and a little flour to make of the proper con- 
sistency, and then set the mixing bowl in a vessel of warm 
water over the back of the stove, and by the time breakfast is 
over it will probably have risen to the top of the tin, or be 
thoroughly light. Next sift into a bread mixing pan enough 
flour for a large loaf (about 1 qt or more), add a little lard, 
salt and sugar, and mix up with the foamy "rising," using a 
little warm water if more wetting is needed. Knead well, shape 
into loaves, put in well greased pans, and set in a warm place 
to rise. When light bake in a not too hot oven. I have used 
this recipe for 15 years, and it has never failed me. I usually 
use a quart fruit can to prepare the "rising." — [E. A. E., N. C. 

Salt lUsing Bread n 

Put Into a qt pitcher or jar 1 pt boiling ■water, 1 teasp 
sugar, and % teasp each soda and salt. When cool enough to 
bear your hand in it, add flour to make a thick batter, beat 
well, and put the jar or pitcher In a vessel filled with hot water 
but not hot enough to scald the mixture. Keep up a uniform 
temperature until the "rising" is light. If set early in the 
morning, it will be ready just before noon to make sponge. 
Add 1 qt warm milk and flour to make a sponge. Set In a 
warm place and when light make into loaves and let them rise 
again. Care should be taken not to let them rise too long, or 
the bread will be dry and tasteless. — [Mrs. J. A. W., Mo. 

Directions for Steaming Bread 

For moulds, if you do not have the boughten ones, use 1-lb 
baking powder cans, or cottolene cans, or small lard pails, with 
covers to fit snugly. Butter the inside of the moulds well,- and 
also the Inside of the covers. Pill the moulds no more than 
two-thirds full, to allow space for swelling. If you do not own 



20 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

a, "steamer," it is a good plan to set the covered mould inside 
of a larger vessel with a thin little piece of wood in the bottom, 
and fill the outside vessel with boiling water to within an inch 
of the top of the mould, but no more, as otherwise the water 
would leak into the mould while boiling. Cover the outside 
vessel securely, and boil steadily for the length of time the 
recipe calls for. It is important that the water should not stop 
boiling until the bread is done, otherwise the bread will be 
soggy. Have a kettle of hot boiling water always in readiness, 
and if necessary add a little water to the steaming vessel, if the 
water in it boils away too much. When done remove the cover 
from the mould, and put the bread in the oven about 5 or 10 
minutes, to dry and brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Sift 2 Vz cups entire wheat flour with 1 scant teasp soda and 
% teasp salt, add 1 cup buttermilk. Mix well, then turn into 
greased pans and bake % hour. If liked 1 or 2 tablesp sugar 
may be added. — [J. B. J., O. 

Baked Graham Bread 

To % cup molasses or scant % cup brown sugar add % cup 
each white flour and corn meal, 2 cups each graham flour and 
sour milk, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
added last. Bake in 1-lb baking powder cans, about % hour. 
—[Mrs. B. W. A., Cal. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

To 1 % cups graham flour add 1 cup wheat flour, % cup com 
meal, 1 teasp baking powder, % cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 tablesp 
butter, 1 cup each sweet milk and buttermilk in which dissolve 
1 teasp soda, 1% cups molasses, and a pinch salt. Steam 2 
hours, then bake 20 minutes. — [Mrs. E. V., N. Y. 

Baised Graham Bread I 

Early in the morning scald 1 pt fresh milk, and while hot 
add 1 teasp butter or lard, and small pinch soda. When luke- 
warm add 1 cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little luke- 
warm water. Mix well, then add 1 qt graham flour, 1 pt 
wheat flour, % cup sugar, and 1 teasp salt. The ingredients 
should all be lukewarm. Mix well, and if there is not quite 
enough wetting, add a little more lukewarm water. Cover, 
and set in a warm place to rise. When light (which ought to 
be in a few hours) divide into two loaves, mould on a well 
floured board, just enough to shape them into loaves. Put In 
greased tins, cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place to 
rise again. When light, bake about 1 hour, and when done. 



GRAHAM AND RYE BREAD 21 

remove from the tins immediately and place on a clean cloth 
until cold. — [Mrs. A. C, Mass. 

Raised Graham Bread n 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add 1 pt lukewarm water, and 
then stiif in 1 qt graham flour, a little salt, and % cup sugar. 
Knead to the proper consistency with white flour, and let rise 
the same as white hread. This will make two loaves. — [Mrs. 
J. W. M., Pa. 

Rye Bread 

Sift and mix together 1 % qts rye meal, % qt white flour, 1 
level tablesp salt, and % tablesp caraway seed. Make a hollow 
in center of flour and pour in 1 cake fresh compressed yeast 
dissolved in 1 qt lukewarm milk and water mixed, and 1 level 
tablesp melted lard. Stir in a little bit of the surrounding 
flour to make a soft sponge, cover, and set in a warm place to 
rise. At the end of 1 or 2 hours it will be light. Then work 
into the sponge the rest of the surrounding flour, using a big 
wooden spoon, and work about 10 minutes, then cover and 
again put away in a warm place to rise, which will take from 2 
to 3 hours, when it should double in bulk. Turn out on mix- 
ing board, sprinkle with white flour, and knead into loaves, 
kneading each loaf about 10 minutes. Put each loaf into 
greased pans, cover with a clean cloth, and let rise again. 
When light put into a moderately hot oven and turn bread 
every 10 minutes for the first % hour (three times), so that it 
will raise even. After the first % hour increase the heat some. 
After the loaves have baked 1 hour, take them out of the pans 
and put them on the bare oven shelves, and bake % hour 
longer. This will make a nice brown crust all around. When 
done wrap in a clean cloth, and lean against something until 
cold. When compressed yeast is not on hand, % cake dry 
yeast may be Used by starting the sponge the day before. — 
[Mrs. G., Wis. 

Oat Meal Bread I 

Pour 3 cups boiling water over 1 cup rolled oats, add % cup 
molasses or sugar, 1 tablesp lard, and 2 teasp salt. When luke- 
warm add V2 OT % cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water (in winter it may be necessary to use 1 whole 
cake yeast), then add enough bread flour to make a firm 
dough, and knead. Let rise over night, then mould into two 
loaves, and when light, bake about 1% hours. — [G. I. C. Mass. 



22 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Oat Meal Bread II 

Take any desired quantity of bread sponge and before you 
have kneaded it quite stiff enough, for bread, work in enough 
oat meal to make it stiff, then shape into loaves, grease well 
all over, and set in a warm place to rise. It will take longer to 
rise then ordinary white bread. When light, bake. — [Mrs. W. 
W. P., Okla. 

Barley Bread 

To 1% cups hot, boiled barley mush, add 3 tablesp sugar, 2 
tablesp butter, and 1 teasp salt. Mix well and when lukewarm 
add % cake compressed yeast, dissolved in Yz cup lukewarm 
water. Mix well and then knead in sufficient flour to make a 
stiff dough. Knead until elastic, then set in a warm place to 
rise, and when light mould into loaves, let rise again, and 
when light, bake. Bread made with mush requires a larger 
quantity of flour, and the dough should be mixed stiffer than 
ordinary bread dough. — [J. H. 

Baked Brown Bread I 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add % cup molasses and a little 
salt, and when well mixed stir in graham flour until the batter 
is quite thick. Put in well greased bread tins to rise, and 
when light bake a little longer than white bread. — [Mrs. E. 
W., N. Y. 

Baked Brown Bread n 

Put 1 cup molasses and 1 teasp soda over the fire and stir 
until it foams, then add 1 pt sweet milk, 1 teasp salt, and 4 
cups graham flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. If all 
graham flour is not liked use 3 cups graham and 1 cup white 
flour. Stir well, put into well greased tins, let stand 2 hours 
to rise, and then bake. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Steamed Brown Bread I 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup graham flour, % cup yellow 
corn meal, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1% cups sour milk, % cup 
N O molasses, and pinch salt. Steam 2% hours, then put in 
the oven about 5 minutes. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. 

Steamed Brown Bread EC 

To 3 cups sifted graham flour add 1 cup corn meal, % cup 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups buttermilk in which dissolve 2 
teasp soda, % teasp salt, and lastly 2 cups seeded raisins 
dredged with flour. Put into 1-lb baking powder cans well 
greased, filling a little over half full. Steam 3 hours. — [A. C, 
Pa. 



BROWN AND BRAN BREAD 23 



Steamed Brown Bread III 

To 2 cups corn meal add 2 cups rye meal, % cup molasses 
and 1 heaping teasp salt. Mix well and tlien stir in 3 cups 
boiling hot water. When smooth add 1 cup sour milk in which 
1 teasp soda has been dissolved, and then add 2 cups sifted 
graham flour. Mix well, steam 4 hours, and then bake Vz 
hour. — [Mrs. C. E. W., Mass. 

Bran Bread 

Sift and mix together 4 cups wheat bran, 2 cups wheat flour, 
1 teasp soda and % teasp salt, then add 4 cups sour milk and 
1 cup molasses. Turn into well greased bread pans and bake 
in moderately hot oven about 1 hour. — [Mrs. A. M., Ct. 

Currant Bread 

To 1 qt bread sponge add Vz cup molasses, 2 tablesp short- 
ening, 1 teasp each salt and cinnamon, % teasp cloves, % lb 
clean currants, and % lb seeded raisins, with flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Turn into well greased pans, also grease 
the top of the dough, cover, and set in a warm place to rise. 
When light, bake. — [Mrs. J. L. P., Pla. 

Hominy Bread 

To % pt cold, boiled hominy, add salt to taste, % pt com 
meal, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablesp lard or butter, and suffi- 
cient sweet milk to make a thick batter. Turn into well 
greased pan and bake. — [Miss M. C. G., Ala. 

Mush Bread 

Prepare corn meal mush in the usual manner, and to 2 qts 
of the hot mush add 2 qts whole wheat flour or graham flour. 
Mix with a large wooden spoon and while mixing add 1 cup 
maple syrup or N O molasses, 1 teasp salt, and butter the size 
of a walnut. Mix well and when lukewarm add 1 qt light 
bread sponge. When this is well mixed add Vz teasp soda and 
warm flour enough to knead and mould into small loaves. Put 
in well greased pans, let rise and when light bake in a moder- 
ate oven about % hour. When done remove from the pans, 
rub the loaves with butter, wring a clean cloth out of hot water, 
lay it over the bread, and let stand till cold. The crust will be 
nice and tender. Follow the same plan for softening crust of 
any bread. — [A. G., O. 

Pumpkin Bread 

To 1 cup stewed pumpkin add pinch salt, 1 egg, 2 teasp each 
sugar and molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in 1 cup sour milk, and a mixture of corn meal and white flour 



24 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

enough to make a batter as for sponge cake, using % part flour 
and % part com meal. Pour 3 or 4 tablesp thick sweet cream 
over the top of the batter just before placing the pan in the 
oven. — [Mrs. E. R. S., N. Y. 

liight Corn Bread 

Add 1 tablesp sait to 1 qt water, bring to a boil and then 
stir in enough corn meal to make a medium thick mush. Let 
boil up once and remove from the fire, stir in 2 qts cold water, 
and thicken with corn meal until stiff. Cover and set in a 
warm place to rise. When it is light it will puff up, and the 
batter will crack open and seem thinner. Stir in % cup sugar 
and 1 cup flour, and let rise again, which will take about 15 or 
20 minutes; then pour the mixture into a deep, well greased 
pan and bake in a hot oven. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Com Meal Egg Bread 

To 2%' cups corn meal add % cup white flour, 1 teasp salt, 
2 tablesp sugar, 1 scant teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 beaten eggs, and 1 cup sour milk or cream. Beat well, 
put 1 tablesp butter Into a hot spider, just large enough to 
bake a cake the size of a breakfast plate, pour the batter into 
this and then pour over it 1 cup sweet milk, but do not stir. 
Bake about 25 to 30 minutes in a hot oven. When the cake is 
cut, the milk poured in last will show in delicious creamy veins 
running through it. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. Y. 

Com Bread (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups corn meal add 1 cup flour, % cup sugar, 1 teasp 
soda and % teasp salt. Sift these ingredients well, then add 
,% cup melted lard, and enough buttermilk or sour milk to 
make a batter as for griddle cakes. Pour into well greased 
pans about % inch deep, and bake 15 minutes. — [M. M., Ind. 

'Sew England Com Bread 

Scald 1 cup white corn meal with just enough boiling water 
to moisten it. Let stand about 10 minutes, then add enough 
cold water to make a soft batter. When lukewarm add % cup 
liquid yeast, % cup molasses, % teasp each salt and soda, and 

1 pt rye flour. Beat well, cover, and let rise until the mixture 
cracks on top, then stir it down, pour into buttered and floured 
tins, let rise again, sprinkle the top lightly with flour, and bake 

2 hours in moderate oven. — [Mrs. D. W. C, British Columbia. 

Richmond Com Bread 

Put 2 tablesp lard in a small, deep, tin pan and place in a 
hot oven. Beat 1 egg thoroughly in another dish, add % cup 



CORN AND SWEET BREAD 25 

sweet milk or water, and then sift in 1 cup white com meal 
with 1 scant teasp baking powder and a little salt. Beat well, 
and then pour in the melted lard which had been placed in the 
tin pap. in the oven, stir well, and then pour the mixture into 
the hot pan. Some people like a slice of bacon placed on top 
of the batter. Bake 15 minutes in a quick oven. Serve with 
fried flsh or chicken. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Chesterfield Corn Bread 

This is to the south what fried mush is to the north, but we 
think it more palatable and hygienic. To 1 cup corn meal add 
pinch salt and 1 scant teasp baking powder. Mix well, then stir 
in water enough to make a batter that can be poured out. Have 
a large pie pan with 1 tablesp lard in the oven getting hot while 
preparing the batter. Pour the batter into the hot pan, and 
bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. This can also be 
baked on top of the stove on a hot, well greased, skillet, and 
turned, to brown both sides evenly. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Sweet Bread 

To 1 qt light bread sponge add 2 ozs butter, 4 ozs sugar, and 
1 tablesp each cinnamon and caraway seed. Knead thoroughly, 
let rise, knead again 10 minutes, then put in greased baking 
pan, brush the tops with melted butter and when light bake in 
a moderate oven. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

German Bread 

To 2 cups light bread dough add scant % cup butter and 
lard mixed, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups milk in which dissolve % teasp 
soda, 1 teasp each cinnamon and vanilla, and 1 cup seeded rais- 
ins. Stir with flour as stiff as bread dough, let rise, mix, let 
rise again, then mould into loaves. Score the tops several 
times with a sharp knife, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar, 
let rise, and when light, bake. — [G. L. N., N. Y. 

Swedish Bread 

Take any desired quantity of light bread dough, roll out 
about % inch thick, rub with melted butter, sprinkle with 
sugar and raisins or currants, and a dusting of nutmeg or cin- 
namon. Roll up, let rise % hour in a well buttered pan, then 
rub a little melted butter on the outside of the loaf, and bake 
in a hot oven % hour. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Scotch Bread 

When making bread reserve enough for a small loaf and 
when the dough is ready for the last rising roll out and spread 
with a mixture of % cup butter and % cup sugar. Roll up and 



26 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

knead till smooth, using as little flour as possible, then roll out 
again and spread with % or % cup seeded raisins. Roll up 
and knead as gently as possible, till the fruit is well mixed with 
the dough, then put in well greased pans, let rise till very light, 
brush the top lightly with melted butter, sift over with some 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven.^ — [Mrs. F. E. A., Wash. 

Bread Sticks or Braids 

Make a sponge of 1 cup scalded milk, cooled to lukewarm, 1 
cup compressed yeast dissolved in % cup lukewarm water, and 
flour enough to make a soft batter. Cover and let stand in a 
warm place, and when light add % teasp salt, 1 tablesp sugar, 

2 tablesp butter, the beaten white of 1 egg, and flour enough 
to make a dough that can be handled. Break off small pieces, 
shape into balls, then with the hands roll on a board, without 
using flour, into long round strips of uniform size and shape. 
The strips should be no thicker than a thick lead pencil. Lay 
the strips in a well greased dripping pan, allowing space 
between for swelling, let rise until light, and then bake in a 
hot oven. If the braids are wanted, roll the strips to the desired 
length, pinch the tops of three of four together, and then braid 
them loosely, and pinch the ends together. Let rise and when 
light, bake. — [J. H. 

Raised Tea Rolls 

In the morning rub 2 teasp shortening (lard or butter) into 

3 pts flour, add 1 teasp salt, 2 tablesp sugar, i^ cake compressed 
yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm water or milk, and luke- 
warm water or milk (or half and half of each), enough to 
make a soft doughr Cover and let rise until light and spongy. 
When light knead with flour and roll out about % Inch thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter, brush each with a little melted butter, 
dent with the back of a silver knife through the center, fold 
over, lay in a well greased tin, set in a warm place to rise, and 
when light, bake in a rather quick oven. — [Mrs. C. E. A., N. H. 

Baking Powder Rolls 

Sift 1 qt flour with 3 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp sugar, and 
a little salt. Rub in 1 tablesp cold butter, add 1 well-beaten 
egg, and enough milk to make a smooth dough as soft as ,can 
be handled. Roll out % inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter, 
brush the top of each with melted butter, dent the center of 
each with the back of a silver knife, fold half over, put in well 
greased tins, and hake in a rather quick oven. — [Mrs. N. S., 
Mich. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Make a good, rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll as for 
biscuits and spread liberally with sugar, butter and cinnamon; 



TEA ROLLS AND BUNS 27 

roll up, pinch tlies-edges together, cut in slices, put a piece of 
butter on each alice, and bake immediately in a quick oven. — 
[B. Q. R., Kan. 

Raised Ctanamon Bolls 

When bread sponge is ready to mould into loaves take about 
1 qt, roll out about % inch thick, and spread lavishly with a 
mixture of a generous % cup butter and 1 cup brown sugar 
creamed together and highly flavored with cinnamon. Roll up 
and pinch the edges together, cut the roll in slices about % or 
% inch thick, set in a warm place to rise, and when light, 
bake. — [C. L., Ind. 

French Bolls 

Sift 1 qt flour with 1 teasp salt and 2 teasp baking powder, 
then rub in 1 tablesp butter or lard, and add 1 scant pt sweet 
milk. Turn the dough out on a floured board, give it one or 
two vigorous kneadings to make it smooth, then divide, break 
ofC small pieces, roll With the hands, brush tops with milk, and 
bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. — [M. A. G-.j O. 

Buttermilk Bolls 

To scant 1 pt buttermilk add 2 tablesp sour cream, 1 teasp 
each sugar, salt and soda, and 1 qt sifted flour. Bake in well 
greased iron roll pans. Sour milk may be used in place of 
buttermilk. — [M. B.. Vt. 

Graham Bolls 

To 1% cups sour milk or buttermilk add 1 tablesp sour 
cream, 1 teasp each soda, salt and sugar, and then mix quite 
stiff with 1 part white flour and 2 parts graham flour. This 
will make one doz rolls. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Squash Bolls 

To 1 cup boiled and sifted squash add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp 
sugar, 2 cups sour milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, % teasp 
salt, and sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in well 
greased roll ans in a quick oven. — [E. I. Me. 

Bran Bolls 

To 1% cups clean wheat bran add 1 cup entire wheat flour, 
% cup best molasses, 1% cups sour milk in which dissolve i^ 
teasp each soda and salt. These are all the ingredients that 
are necessary, but the rolls will be more palatable and lighter 
if a little melted butter is added and 1 beaten egg. Bake in 
well greased gem pans in a moderately quick oven. Bran 
rolls or bread help to cure constipation. — [Mrs. H. E. R., Vt. 



28 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Potato Bolls 

Pare and boil until soft 4 good sized potatoes, then mach 
them smooth and add 1 heaping tablesp butter, 1 teasp salt, 1 
or 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 pt sweet milk, lukewarm, and 1 scant 
pt light bread sponge, with enough flour to make a dough that 
can be kneaded. Set in a warm place to rise, and when light 
shape into balls the size of an egg. Let rise again, and when 
very light bake 15 or 20 minutes in a moderately hot oven. — 
[E. L. R., S. D. 

Plain Buns 

Mix together % cup lively yeast, 1 cup sweet milk, scalded 
and cooled to lukewarm, J^ teasp salt, and 2 cups warm flour. 
Cover, and set in a warm place to rise, and when very light 
work In % cup sugar and 2 tablesp butter; then knead well 
about 10 minutes, using no more flour than necessary. Shape 
into biscuits a little larger than an egg, place on buttered tins, 
and set in a warm place to rise. When very light bake in a 
moderately hot oven. The tops of the buns may be brushed 
over with the beaten white of an egg sweetened, about 15 or 20 
minutes before removing from the oven, or sprinkled with 
moist sugar just afte- -emoving from the oven. — [Miss E. I. B., 
Cal. 

Sweet Bnns or Busks 

Mix together 1 pt mashed potatoes, 1 cup sugar, and 1 cup 
liquid yeast. Liet stand in a warm place over night, and next 
morning add 1 scant cup butter, 1 cup sUgar, 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs, and warm sifted flour enough to make a sponge. Set in 
a warm place to rise and when light knead, using no more 
flour than necessary. Let rise again, then shape into small 
buns, put in well greased pans, let rise till light, then brush the 
tops with sweet cream, sprinkle with sugar and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Another way: After the dough has raised for 
the second time, roll out % inch thick, spread with cream, 
sprinkle with sugar, roll up like jelly cake, pinch the edges, 
and cut oft slices about % inch thick. Place flat on a well 
greased pan, let rise till light, and bake in a moderately quick 
oven. — [E. M. C, Mich. 

Bnsks 

To 2 cups raised bread dough add 1 cup sugar, scant % cup 
butter, 1 or 2 well-beaten eggs, and sifted flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Set in a warm place to rise, and when 
light mould into small biscuits, shaped high. Let rise again, 
and when light sift sugar and cinnamon over the tops and bake 
— [M. !>.. O. 



RUSKS AND BRBTZELN 29 

Com Bnsks 

To 2 cups corn meal add 3 cups boiled milk, 1 cup lard, and 
2 cups sugar, and when lukewarm add 1 cup liquid yeast. Let 
stand in a warm place over night, and next morning add 1 
teasp salt and a small pinch of soda dissolved in a little warm 
water. Knead with no more flour than necessary, shape into 
rolls, and set in a warm, place to rise. When very light, bake 
In a moderate oven. — [Mrs. E. A. N., Pa. 

Sweet or Salt Bretzeln 

Mix 1 large tablesp lively yeast with 1 cup lukewarm milk, 
and mix well into 1 % lbs sifted flour. Cream % lb butter with 
2 ozs sugar, add 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs, with a little salt and 1 
tablesp liquid yeast. Put the two mixtures together and knead 
until well mixed, then cut the dough into thin round bars or 
strips, about 7 inches long, tapering at the ends, twist into any 
desired forms, put in well buttered pans, allowing space 
between for swelling, set in a warm place to rise, and when 
light brush with the white of an egg, dust with sugar, and 
bake a light brown. If salt bretzeln are wanted omit the 
sugar from the recipe and a little before removing from the 
oven sprinkle with coarse table salt. — [S. E. W., O. 

Swieback 

Dissolve 1 cake compressed yeast in % cup lukewarm milk, 
add % teasp salt and % cup flour. Mix well, set in a warm 
place and let rise until very light, then add 2 tablesp each sugar 
and melted butter (more sugar if liked very sweet), 1 whole 
egg and. yolk of 1 egg, well beaten, and sifted flour enough to 
handle. Shape into rolls the size of small sausages, put into 
buttered pans, set in a warm place, let rise, and when light, 
bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. When cold cut in slices and 
brown evenly in a warm oven, then put in sealed paper boxes or 
bags, and store in a dry place. They will keep for a long time, 
and if desired can be put in a hot oven a few minutes to crisp 
before serving. — [N. P., N. H. 

BREAD HINTS 

Extremes of heat or cold kill the yeast plants, and thus 
make fermentation or rising impossible. — [A. G., Mass. 

Add 1 cup chopped walnuts to each loaf graham bread, and 
you will find that the flavor of the bread will be very much 
improved. — [Mrs. M. A. P., Ill 

The addition of a little sugar when setting bread sponge will 
increase the rapidity of fermentation, but it spoils the fine 
flavor of the bread. — [A. G., Mass. 



30 FAEM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

The "rising" for salt rising bread can stand more heat than 
yeast, and from beginning to end salt rising bread requires 
more heat than yeast bread. — [A. G., Mass. 

Bread sponged over night Is not so liable to sour if salt is 
added, but salt in the sponge is unnecessary if the bread is 
made quickly, in the morning. — [A. G., Mass. 

After the bread has cooled, put it away without wrapping, 
In a perfectly clean tin box. Do not keep bread in stone or 
■wood, and do not put in a damp cellar. — [Mrs. R. 

The batter for brown bread should be neither too thin nor 
too thick. If too thin the bread will be pasty, and if too thick 
it will turn out rather dry. — [Mrs. G. W. D., Wash. 

In cold weather I always make double the amount of brown 
bread at one time, as it will keep well for weeks and can be 
resteamed or heated over again as needed. — [Mrs. A. B., N. Y. 

Do not use bolted corn meal if you can get the unbolted, as 
the bolted meal is very fine and clammy, and when moistened 
does not bake so nice a crust as the unbolted meal. — [J. W. G., 
Ky. 

Compressed yeast cakes should be kept in a cool place until 
ready to use. They are not good after 2 or 3 days. When 
ready to use, dissolve thoroughly in % cup lukewarm water. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

From beginning to end, the process of bread making should 
be conducted in an even temperature of about 65 degrees, or 
thereabouts. Protect the dough from draughts and chills, and 
warm all the ingredients before combining. — [A. G., Mass. 

The white of an egg usually added when making rusk or 
tea biscuits, especially in connection with the shortening, 
retards the action of yeast, therefore a much longer time must 
be allowed for the rising of biscuits and buns than for ordinary 
bread. — [A. G., ' 



Save about 1 qt of the light bread sponge and set it away 
In a cool place, and use it for yeast the next baking time, and 
note the difCerence in the bread. I have followed this plan 
many years. Be careful to keep in a cool place, especially in 
summer. — [Mrs. D. J. W., Mich. 

All but 1 cup of the perpetual yeast can be used if neces- 
sary, and what remains can be used as a "starter" by adding 
more sugar and potato water. In this way. If kept covered and 
in a cool place, it will last for months. I put in % cake com- 
pressed yeast about once a month, to renew the strength ^ 

[Mrs. A. H., N. Y. 



HINTS ON BREAD MAKING 31 

When bread sponge is allowed to st'&nd too loo^to raise, it 
is apt to collapse from exhaustion and become sour. The 
dough is raised enough when it has doubled its bulk. When it 
has arrived at this stage, and if you should happen not to have 
the time to attend to it at once, just add a handful of flour 
and beat it through the dough thoroughly, after which it may 
stand about % hour wihout injury. — [A..G., Mass. 

When mixing graham bread I prefer a large knife or a spoon. 
Be careful not to get the batter too thick. It should not be 
stiff enough to mould with the hands at first, as the graham 
flour swells in standing. It should be just a trifle sticky to the 
touch — a little practice will soon teach you how stiff to make 
it. Use white flour for the hands and bread board, when 
moulding the loaves. It is always best to sift the graham 
flour. — [Mrs. A. E. W.. N. Y. 

The compressed yeast cakes generally sold in almost every 
city, town and hamlet should only be used when they are fresh. 
They should be of a light and even color, but when the 
yeast is not as fresh as it should be, it will show brownish 
streaks, and if used would spoil the bread. These cakes, being 
compressed, contain much more yeast in a small space than 
ordinary homemade yeasts. — [A. G., Mass. 

For steaming brown bread I use 2 sizes of lard pails, put the 
bread in the small one, and set this in the larger one, with a 
piece of perforated wood in the bottom, fill with boiling water 
to within an inch of the top of the smaller pail, which should 
be securely covered. Cover the larger pail also and place the 
whole in a hot oven and you will not have to bother with it 
until the bread is done. This method saves steaming up the 
rooms. For brown bread I prefer the bolted corn meal. — • 
[Mrs. L. M. R., Me. 

Use milk in mixing bread, for it is obvious that milk is more 
nutritious than water. Much kneading of the dough is 
unnecessary, even harmful, though many rules for bread mak- 
ing particularly emphasize it: I think it makes the bread 
tougher and it does not keep fresh and moist so long. Use as 
little yeast as possible. In summer less yeast is needed than 
in winter. All the ingredients for bread making should be 
lukewarm. Much depends upon baking — not too fast or too 
glow — in a range that bakes top and bottom evenly, usually in 
a little less than one hour. A very little baking after the 
bread is done makes it dry. The ideal bread should be a little 
moist. It is best not to cut bread the same day it is baked. — ■ 
[Mrs. J. I. M., N, H. 



32 FARM AND HOME COOK. BOOK 



[PASTE ADDHIOXAIi RECIPES BEBEJ 




A LUSCIOUS HOMEMADE PIE. 





















\'^ <. 


V 








■4j 


1 


f^^' 




\ 






-\ 




^ 






f 






->!' 


» 4- 




4 




' 


,.•- 




1 


^■■<i)(f 




1 


' -<-■ 








/|V^^^S 


■ 


1 


1 






1 


H 




■1 


k 























THREE CRISP LOAVES OF BREAD. 




Gakes, Fillings and Frostin^s 

OR cakes and in all branches of cookery it 
always pays to use the best and purest 
ingredients. Inferior flours, or cheap sodas, 
baking powders, spices and extracts, inva- 
riably fail to give satisfaction, because more 
than the ordinary quantities are required, 
and because they are generally unpalatable, and, most im- 
portant of all, because they are positively injurious to 
health. If you must practice economy, do so in quantity, 
not quality — ^in other words, select plain recipes and leave 
the fancy and more elaborate combinations for special 
occasions. 

Some like cakes very sweet and rich, while others do 
not. In presenting- the following recipes, the editor has 
tried to steer a middle course. It is understood that salt 
should be added to every cake, although it was not thought 
necessary to repeat this in every recipe. The amount of 
salt required will vary — less if salted butter is used, and 
more if lard or any other unsalted drippings are used. 

The recipes which follow were mostly furnished by 
readers of Farm and Home, whose initials are signed. 
These recipes are all claimed to be tried and tested, and 
whatever else there may or may not be said of them, they 
certainly sound "tasty," and most of them have the addi- 
tional merit of being economical. The assortment includes- 
plain and rich cakes, "raised" or yeast cakes, baking powder 
cakes, sour milk, buttermilk and soda cakes, eggless cakes, 
butterless cakes, fruit cakes, and various wholesome and 
palatable light and dark cakes, in loaves, layers, rolls and 
small cakes, together with all sorts of fillings and frostings. 
It would seem as though the variety would be large enough 
to suit all tastes. 



34 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



General Directions for Baking Cake 

Measurements can be only approximately given, since flours 
vary in their capacity to absorb moisture, and every house- 
keeper does not measure with the same sized cup, or spoon. 
Therefore it will be necessary for each cook to experiment to 
some extent for herself. Bread flour should only be used for 
bread or yeast cakes, as it contains too much gluten, and is 
liable to make baking powder cakes too thick. Cups of dry 
ingredients are measured level, teaspoons or tablespoons should 
be rounded, while liquid measure should never be overflowing 
full. A complete table of weights and measures is given 
elsewhere in this book, also an index to the abbreviations used. 

Cake batters are usually mixed by first creaming together 
the butter and sugar, then adding the eggs, one at a time, and 
beating them well with the butter and sugar. Sometimes only 
the yolks are added, and the beaten whites at the very last. 
After the eggs, molasses, or milk, or whatever liquid the recipe 
calls for, is added, then the flour, in which the baking powder 
should first be mixed dry, and all sifted together before adding 
to the other ingredients. 

The seeded or seedless raisins and the currants should be 
thoroughly cleaned and lightly dredged with flour before adding 
to the batter, the very last thing. Citron and candied lemon 
peel or orange peel, as well as nut meats, should also be 
dredged with flour before adding to the batter. This prevents 
the fruit from sticking together and falling to the bottom of 
the cake. 

When sour milk Is used in cake, it calls for about 1 teaspoon 
saleratus (soda) to each cup sour milk, or buttermilk — more 
or less soda, according to the acidity of the milk. Too much 
soda makes the cakes unpalatable, and causes the objectionable 
little brown spots. Sweet milk can be substituted for sour 
milk by omitting soda, and using baking powder instead. It 
usually requires about 1 to 1% teaspoons baking powder to 2 
cups flour. Also, sour milk can be substituted for sweet milk 
l)y omitting baking powder and adding a teaspoon soda to each 
cup sour milk. WOne cup sour milk with 1 teaspoon saleratus 
generally equalSabout 2 teaspoons baking powder in "raising" 
power. A good substitute for the "boughten" baking powder 
is made of cream of tartar combined with saleratus '«oda^ — 
two parts of the former with one of the latter. 
"^In dark cakes that call for butter, any gooa shortening 
can be substituted for the sake of economy — lard, chicken fat, 
or drippings, but none of strong flavor, such as goose or mut- 
ton, or any fat in which onions have been cooked. When try- 
ing a new recipe it is a good plan to measure the shortening 
and the sugar and molasses scant, until the individual family 
taste has been ascertained. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING AND BAKING 35 

/When cakes "fall" in the center while baking, or Immedi- 
ately after removing from the oven, it is generally because the 
batter was too thin, or too rich with butter or molasses, or the 
baking was too rapid, so that a hard outer crust had formed 
before the center had solidified. It is for this same reason that 
the crusts will break, and the batter come up between, thus 
forming unsightly broken tops to the cakes. 

When the cake is thought to be about done, test it by 
inserting a broom straw with thick end cut to a fine point. If 
no moisture, or half baked batter adheres to the straw, the 
cake is done. Also, when the cake is done It usually recedes 
a little from the sides of the tin. After removing the cake 
from the oven never place in a draft or on a cold surface, but 
place the pan on a cloth or towel wrung out ,of water, and 
allow it to remain there a few minutes, after which the cake 
can be easily removed from the tin. The more delicate the 
cake, the more careful the handling should be. 

Cake pans are best greased with baking oil, or lard, never 
with salted butter, as the latter burns easily, and sometimes 
also causes the cake to stick to the tins. Some cooks like to 
sprinkle flour in the greased tins to prevent cakes from stick- 
ing. Sprinkle liberally and shake out superfluous flour by 
inverting the tin and tapping lightly on the outside. Another 
good plan is to place a fitted piece of well greased paper (white 
or light brown) in the bottom of cake pan, and sometimes also 
along the sides, especially for rich cakes that require long 
baking. 

KMost cakes require medium heat in the baking, except when 
the recipe states otherwise. If the oven is too hot, a pan of 
cold water placed in it will help to reduce the temperature. As 
a rule, layer cakes and small cakes require a hotter oven than 
loaf cakes. ^Cakes made with baking powder call for a higher 
temperature than those in which cream of tartar and soda, or 
lemon juice and soda, or molasses and soda are used. ^^Cakes 
made rich with the yolks of eggs require less heat than cakes 
made with the whites of eggs — that is, an oven should be hot- 
ter for an angel cake than for a yellow or rich and heavy cake. 
Cake containing fruit should always be baked in a slow oven. 

The regulation of the oven temperature spells success or 
failure in cake baking, ^s a general rule, the oven should be 
slow at first, and. the heat gradually increased. Never attempt 
to bake a delicate cake mixture with a freshly built coal fire, 
which, as everyone knows, always gives out a more intense 
heat, or with a fire from which the life has largely died out. 
When the same recipe is used with success at one time and 
results in failure at another time the fault can generally be 
attributed to an oven of improper temperature. # 

In mixing cakes lightened with yeast, observe the same 
points considered essential to success in bread making. On 
account of the tendency of sugar, butter and eggs to retard 



36 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

fermentation it is advisable to add these only to a light sponge 
or to a light bread dough. When filling cake tins the batter 
should never fill more than two-thirds of the space. Draw 
the mixture away from the center toward the corners or edges. 
If this is done, the cakes when baked will have level tops, pro- 
viding the oven was properly heated. 

It is a saving of time, and results will generally be more sat- 
isfactory, if, before beginning to mix a cake, the cook will see 
to it that she has everything needed ready at hand and in such 
condition that the ingredients can be put together quickly. 

Farmer's Cake 

When putting raised bread in pans to bake, leave out a 
piece about half the size of a loaf. Keep it in raiser and cover 
warm, while you get the following ready: 1 cup lard (melted, 
warm, not hot), 1 lb currants, % ,1b raisins, 1% cups sugar, I 
small cup molasses, 2 eggs, 1 teasp each ground cloves, ginger, 
allspice, cinnamon and soda. Mix the warm lard, beaten eggs 
and molasses and put in with dough. Then beat, and beat until 
it is light and like batter, after which add sugar and beat all 
again well. Lastly put in the floured fruit, but don't beat — 
just fold over and over until well mixed, and put in a roaster 
in a hot oven, and cover and bake for 1% hours. Do not 
open oven door until cake is cooked. If your bread is ready 
to bake first, it does not hurt cake to leave it standing in warm 
place until oven is ready. This cake is very good and sub- 
stantial. — [Mrs. E. W., O. 

Wedding Cake 

I have prepared this for all my children when they were 
married, and everybody who has tasted this cake declares that 
it is unsurpassed. Cream 1 lb sugar and 1 lb butter (or use 
half butter and half shortening) , add 12 eggs, one at a time, 
1 lb sifted flour, 4 lbs raisins, seeded, 3 lbs currants, 2 lbs al- 
monds, blanched and chopped fine, and 1 cup raspberry jam. 
Put in a separate small bowl 1 or 2 nutmegs grated, 1 tablesp 
cinnamon, 1 teasp cloves, and pour over it 3 wine glasses 
good brandy and 2 wine glasses white wine. Cover the bowl 
and let this stand while you are mixing the cake, then stir it 
up, and pour it in the cake batter the very last thing. Mix 
well, and bake at once in a moderate oven. It is best to line 
the tin with well greased paper, and care must be used that the 
cake will not burn at the bottom. These cakes will keep a year 
or more. Do not bake ii too large tins. Use half the quanti- 
ties if less cake is wanted. — [Anon., N. Y. 

Angel Food Cake 

A moist and tender angel cake is one of the best things in 
the art of cookery. ^ Remember that angel food Should never be 



WHITE CAKES WITH EGGS 37 

eaten the same day it is baked. It is better when a week old. 
The best that was ever baked will be tough when it is fresh. 
Keep in tightly closed tin box. The recipe which I have used 
with success is as follows: Add a pinch salt to the whites of 
9 eggs and beat till partly stifE, then add % teasp cream tartar 
and beat till very stiff. Fold in gradually and very carefully 
1% cups granulated sugar that has been sifted several times, 
gift 1 cup best pastry flour half doz times, and fold lightly into 
the sugar and eggs. Lastly add 1 teasp vanilla extract, and 
pour the batter into an unbuttered pan which has been lightly 
dredged with flour. Bake for 35 to 50 minutes, and when done 
do not remove from pan until the cake is almost cold, after 
which it can be easily loosened and lifted out. — [H. E. S., Ind. 

Three In One Cake 

This recipe will answer for a French cream cake, a whipped 
cream cake, or a roll jelly cake. Beat 3 eggs and I cup sugar 
thoroughly, then add 2 tablesp cold water and IVz cups flour 
sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Always stir this batter 
in one direction. For a French cream cake bake in two round 
layers. Split the cakes, while warm, and put together with 
the following cream filling: Put 1 scant pt milk in a double 
boiler to heat. Dissolve 2 tablesp cornstarch in a little cold 
milk, add 1 beaten egg, and Vz cup sugar. Then pour this 
mixture into the hotj milk and stir constantly until thick. Add 
piece of butter size of an egg, remove from the Are and flavor 
to taste, and spread between the layers. For the roll jelly cake 
bake in a long bread pan in a not too hot oven, or the edges 
will be hard and the cake will break when you try to roll it up. 
When done turn out on a clean towel, spread with jelly or 
jam, and roll up, leaving the cloth around the cake until it is 
cool. For whipped cream cake, bake in two round layers, split 
them while warm and put them together with sweetened 
whipped cream flavored to taste. This is best eaten fresh. — 
[Mrs. A. I., la. 

li^ Ponnd Cake 

Cream '%' lb butter (or half butter and half shortening) 
With 1 lb brown sugar, add yolks of 6 eggs, one at a time, beat- 
ing thoroughly, % pt sour milk, in which dissolve 1 scant teasp 
soda, 1 lb flour sifted with % teasp nutmeg, and 1 lb each 
chopped figs and raisins, dredged with flour. Lastly fold in 
the beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake slowly. — [Mrs. A. C, W. Va. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Soak 2 cups dried apples over night. Drain off water, chop 
flne, and cook in 2 cups molasses until thick. When cool add 2 
cups sugar, 2 teasp each nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice, 1 cup 



38 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

shortening, 2 cups sour milk with 2 teasp soda dissolved in it 
and ilour to make a stiff batter. This is an excellent recipe, 
and makes four large loaves. — [I. A. S., Me. 

Prune Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg and 1 yolk, 4 tablesp sour cream, 
and flour enough to make a thick batter, sifted with 1 teasp 
each of soda and cinnamon, % teasp cloves and V4, teasp nut- 
meg. Lastly mix in 1 cup stewed prunes pitted and chopped. 
Bake in layers and put together with frosting made with the 
white of the egg and sugar, or use whipped cream. This is ex- 
cellent. — [L. A. B. 

J Blackberry Jam Cake 

Cream 1% cups sugar with % cup shortening, add 3 eggs, 
leaving out th^ white of one for the frosting, % cup sour milk, 
in which dissolve 1 scant teasp soda, 2% cups flour sifted with 
1 teasp cinnamon, and last of all 1 cup of blackberry jam, mix- 
ing it no more than necessary after adding jam. Sweet milk 
may be used instead of sour milk by leaving out the soda and 
adding 1 teasp baking powder instead. This is a delicious 
cake. — [Miss B. C, Ore. 

Strawberry Jam Cake 

Cream % cup butter ■<v^ith 1 cup brown sugar, add yolks 
3 eggs, 5 tablesp sour milk or cream, in which dissolve 1 teasp 
soda, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and % teasp 
each cloves and nutmeg, 1 cup strawberry jam, and lastly the 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in layers, and put together with 
boiled icing. — [E. B. U., Mo. 

Roll Cake With Buttermilk. 

Mix 1 egg with % cup sugar and add % teasp soda dis- 
solved in 6 tablesp buttermilk; then mix in 6 tablesp flour and 
bake in a narrow, shallow tin. When done turn out on a 
towel, spread with jelly, or any preferred filling, while the 
cake is still warm, and roll it up, leaving the towel around it 
until the cake is cold. This makes a small roll and is very 
nice. — [Mrs. C. E. P., N. Y. 

Brown Loaf Cake 

Cream 2 cups brown sugar with % cup butter, (or butter 
and lard mixed), add 2 eggs, % cup sour cream in which 
has been dissolved 1 teasp soda, % cup water, ^, cake choco- 
late dissolved in a little hot water, 1 teasp vanilla, ana 2 cups 
flour. This is my favorite recipe. — [Mrs. L. L. D., Va. 



SPICE ANB FRUIT CAKES 391 



Graham Cake 

Beat 1 egg with 2 tablesp sugar, add 1 teasp salt, 1 pt butter- 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and then stir in about 2 
pts graham flour to make a moderately stiff batter (flours vary- 
so that it is hard to name the exact amount). Lastly mix in 3 
tablesp melted butter and bake in a dripping pan about 30 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. B. B. M., Kan. 

Nut Layer Cake 

To % cup sugar add 1 egg well beaten, % cup sour cream 
in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda, % cup molasses, and 2 
cups flour. Bake in three layers. For filling use 1 cup thick 
sweet cream whipped until stiff, sweeten with powdered sugar, 
flavor to taste, and add 1 cup nut meats. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 

Chocolate Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add beaten yolks 2 
eggs, % cup grated chocolate dissolved in a very little hot 
water, % cup buttermilk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups 
flour, and lastly the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Flavor with 
vanilla and frost with white frosting. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 

Steamed Fruit Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 % cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 1 cup 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and Vz teasp each cloves and 
nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup each raisins and currants and steam 
the cake 1% hours, after which place In moderate oven for 
15 minutes. — [L. P., 111. 

Layer Fruit and Nut Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, 1 cup 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, scant 2^^ cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and % teasp each cloves and 
nutmeg. Next add 1 cup chopped raisins, % cup candied lemon 
or orange peel, cut fine, and lastly % cup nut meats and 1 
teasp vanilla extract. Bake in layers and put together with 
caramel filling. — [L. P., 111. 

White Fruit Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar and % cup butter, add 2 eggs, 1 cup but- 
termilk, and flour enough to make a stiff batter, sifted with 
1 teasp each . soda and baking powder. Flavor with lemon 
extract, and lastly mix in lightly 1 cup chopped and seeded 
raisins, dredged with flour. — [L. H., Minn. 



40 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Indian Cake 

Mix 2 cups corn meal, 1 cup flour, W cup sugar, 1 teasp soda 
and 1 teasp salt. In another bowl break 3 eggs, beat them 
up, and add % cup melted butter which has been allowed to 
cool. Then mix in 2 cups rich sour milk and pour this liquid 
mixture into the flour and thoroughly mix the whole. Bake at 
once in flat tin pans, or as a loaf cake. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Battermilk Fruit Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 6 tablesp melted butter, 1 tablesp 
molasses, 1 egg, well beaten, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup 
buttermilk, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and 
% teasp each cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup seeded 
raisins, chopped fine and dredged with flour. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. — [Mrs. W. H. B., Vt. 

Apple Pound Cake 

Boil together 2 cups chopped fresh apples, scant 1 cup but- 
ter, 1 cup molasses, and 1 cup raisins, until the fruit is well 
cooked. When this has cooled add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter- 
milk, 3% cups flour sifted with 2 teasp cinnamon and 1 teasp 
each cloves and soda. Lastly mix in 1 well-beaten egg. — [Mrs. 
C. C, N. T. 



"W Raspberry Jam Cake 



Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 3 eggs, 3 tablesp 
sour milk, 1 teasp each soda and cinnamon, and % teasp nut- 
meg sifted with 1% cups flour. Lastly add 1 cup raspberry 
jam. Bake in a square cake tin. — [Mrs. E. P. C., Me. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake 

To 1 cup brown sugar add % pt thick sour cream, %' teasp 
soda dissolved in 2 tablesp warm water and then stirred into 
% cup N molasses, % cup flour (measured after sifting), 
and 1 tablesp each cinnamon and allspice mixed with the 
flour. Beat all these ingredients together thoroughly and add 
at the last 1 lb raisins, seeded, chopped and rolled in flour. 
Bake about 1% hours in moderate oven. — [Mrs. D. H. F., Col. 

EgglesB Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar with % cup butter, add 1 cup sour milk, 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda; 2 cups flour sifted with 
% teasp each nutmeg and cinnamon, and 1 cup currants. — > 
CMrs. J. P., Me. 



CAKES WITHOUT EGGS 41 

Hot Water Cake (No eggs) 

Cream % cup sugar with % cup lard, add 1 cup molassea 
and 2% cups flour sifted with 2 scant teasp soda and % teasi^ 
each of nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Last of all 
add 1 cup boiling water. When properly made this cake is as 
light as a feather. — [I. A. S., Me. , 

Dark Cake (No eggs) 

Cream % cup butter and lard mixed, with 1 cup brown 
sugar, add 1 cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda^ 
and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and % teasp each 
cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup chopped raisins dredged 
with flour. — [Mrs. L. E. G., N. Y. 

Buttermilk Cake (No eggs) 

To 1 cup sugar add 4 tablesp melted butter, 1 cup buttermilk. 
In which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups flour sifted with spices to 
suit taste. Lastly stir in 1 cup raisins, stoned and cut fine and 
thoroughly dredged with flour. This cake Is also good with 
the spices omitted. — [Mrs. J. K., N. T. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake (No eggs) 

Boil until it thickens Vz cup milk with 1 tablesp butter, and 
% cup chocolate. Remove from fire and when cool add 1 
cup sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved in % cup milk, and flour to 
thicken to the proper consistency. Use vanilla as flavor. — 
[Mrs. E. R. S.. N. T. 

New Bngland Cake (No eggs) 

Cream % cup butter or scant % cup lard, or any other 
good shortening, with 1 cup light brown sugar, add % cup 
molasses, 1 cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 3 
cups flour sifted with % teasp each spices to suit taste, % cup 
cleaned currants, and % cup raisins, seeded, cut in haH, and 
dredged with flour. Bake in a moderate oven. This will make 
one large cake, or two small ones. — [Mrs. R. W., Me. 

Graham Cake (No eggs) 

Cream 1% cups brown sugar with 2 tablesp butter or 
shortening, add 1% cups sour milk, in which has been dis- 
solved 1 teasp soda. Mix together 2% cups graham flour, % 
cup white flour, 1 teasp cinnamon, % teasp cloves, and sift 
this into the first named ingredients. Lastly add 1 cup 
raisins, seeded, cut fine, and well dredged with flour. — [Mrs. 
H. I. S., Ga. 



42 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Sour Milk. Cake (No eggs) 

To 1 cup sugar add V2 cup melted butter, or butter and lard 
mixed, % teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour milk, and 2 cups 
flour with spices to suit. Lastly stir in 1 cup or less seeded 
and chopped raisins, dredged with flour. The spices may be 
omitted. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Pork Cake (Xo eggs) 

Chop 1 lb salt fat pork (no lean) very fine, and pour over 
it % pt strong, boiling hot coffee, add 2 cups brown sugar, 
1 cup molasses, and 1 teasp soda, then sift in about 6 cups flour 
mixed with 2 teasp cinnamon, and 1 teasp each cloves and nut- 
meg. Last of all add 1 lb seeded raisins, and % lb citron or 
candied orange peel cut fine. Bake in a moderate oven. This 
makes two good sized loaves. An excellent cake, and will keep 
for six months, or more. It is well to line the tin with greased 
paper or to put an asbestos mat under the pan to prevent 
burning. For the hot coffee boiling water can be substituted. 
Some cooks add % cup sour milk. — [Mrs. R. L. W., Mass. 

Chocolate Gingerbread (No eggs) 

Mix 1 cup molasses with % cup sour milk, add 1 teasp soda 
dissolved in a little warm water, 3 tablesp melted butter, 2 oz 
melted chocolate, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp each 
ginger and cinnamon. Bake as a loaf cake or in layers. This 
recipe may also be used for cookies by adding more flour. — • 
[Mrs. P. O. B., Mont 

Plain or Nnt Cake (Xo eggs) 

Cream % cup butter and % cup sugar, add % cup sour 
milk with scant V2 teasp soda, and 1% cups flour sifted with 
% teasp cinnamon and % teasp each nutmeg and cloves. 
By way of variation add either 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, or 1 cup nut meats cut fine, or both. Even when we 
have plenty eggs, we always make nut cake this way. — [J. R., 
Mich. 

Fruit Cake (Xo eggs) 

Cream 1 cup brown sugar with scant % cup butter, add %' 
cup buttermilk in which 1 scant teasp soda has-been dis- 
solved, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and % teasp 
each of cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup chopped raisins. 
[Mrs. S. D. B., Mich. 



CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER 43 

English Walnut Cake (No butter, no eggs) 

Dissolve Vz teasp soda in 1 cup buttermilk, add 1 cup sugar, 
3 tablesp molasses and flour enough to make a medium stiff 
batter, sifted with 1% teasp cream tartar. Lastly add 1 cup 
■walnut meats cut very fine. — £Mrs. A. B. H., Va. 



Apple Sauce Cake (No eggs, no milk) 

Cream 1 cup sugar and % cup shortening, dissolve 1 teasp 
soda in a little hot water and stir this in 1 cup sour apple 
sauce, letting it foam over ipto the mixing bowl, then add 1%] 
cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and % teaSp each 
cloves and nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and then put in 1 cup 
raisins. Bake in a loaf tin about 45 minutes. This cake is 
rich, moist, and most delicious, and best of all, cheap. — [Mrs. 
N. A. D., Mass. 

Cheap Cake (No eggs, no butter) 

Here is a good cheap cake or pudding which requires no 
eggs, nor butter nor milk in the making. Put in the mixing 
bowl 1 heaping tablesp lard, and pour over this 1 cup_ strong 
coffee, then add 2 cups brown sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in a little hot water, 3 cups flour sifted with % teasp each 
cloves and nutmeg, and 1 teasp cinnamon — 1 cup raisins is an 
improvment, but can be omitted. Served warm with a good 
pudding sauce or just plain milk, this cake is excellent and 
never fails. — [Mrs. C. V. H., O. 

Emergency Cake (No butter) 

Break 2 eggs in a cup (do not beat), then flU the cup up 
with rich sour cream, empty into a mixing bowl and beat vig- 
orously, then add 1 level teasp soda, 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp any 
preferred flavoring, and 1 cup flour. Bake in two layers. This 
is a very tender and delicate cake. For a filling use scant 
% cup sugar, % cup milk and 1 tablesp butter boiled together 
until it bubbles and begins to look waxy. Then remove from 
the fire, flavor and stir until it begins to thicken, and sprgad 
between layers and on top. — [Mrs. M. S., la. 

Molasses Gingerbread (No butter) 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour cream, 
% cup sour milk, 2 teasp soda, Vi teasp each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves and 3 cups flour. Bake in a biscuit pan, or 
In two small pans. Fine. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Cream Caramel Cake. (No butter.) 

To 2 well beaten eggs add 1 cup sugar and % teasp soda dis- 
solved in 1 cup rich sour cream. Then mix in 2 cups flour, to 



44 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



which has been added 1 teasp baking powder. Bake in layers 
and put together with a filling made of 1 % cups brown sugar, 
% cup sweet cream or milk, and 1 tablesp butter, boiled till a 
small amount dropped In cold water will form a soft ball. 
Then remove from fire and stir.it until it begins to thicken, and 
spread over the baked layers. — [Mrs. D. L. T., S. D. 

French Date Cake (No butter) 

Cream 1 cup sugar with yolks of 3 eggs, add 1 scant cup 
flour sifted with 1 scant teasp baking powder, then add 1 cup 
chopped dates, I cup chopped walnuts, and lastly the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf tin. Serve 
with whipped, sweetened cream flavored with vanilla. — [A. H., 
Wis. 

Cream Cake (Xo butter) 

To 1 cup thick sweet cream add 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, and 
2% cups flour sifted with 1% teasp baking powder. Bake in 
layers and as a filling use 1 cup cream whipped stiff with 1 
cup sugar added and a few drops of vanilla to flavor. It is 
best not to prepare the cream filling until shortly before 
serving. — [Mrs. G. M., Ore. 

Sunshine Cake (No butter) 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs until stiff and add gradually 1 cup 
sugar, beating well, then 3 tablesp cold water and 1 teasp 
lemon extract or lemon jiiice. Next mix 1 % tablesp cornstarch 
with 1 teasp baking powder and 1 scant cup sifted flour. Add 
these ingredients slowly to the above mixture and lastly fold 
in the stifily beaten whites of 4 eggs. My friends pronounce 
this the best sponge cake they have ever tasted. — [Mrs. M. 
H., N. J. 

Sour Cream Spice Cake (No butter) 

Mix thoroughly % cup each sugar, molasses, thick sour 
cream and buttermilk, add 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, then sift in 2 cups flour, mixed with 1 teasp each 
salt and cinnamon, and % teasp allspice and cloves. Flavor 
with 1 teasp lemon extract. Bake as loaf cake or in three 
layers and put together with icing. — [Mrs. B. B. M., Kan. 

Rolled Sponge Cake (No butter) 

To 4 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sugar, 4 tablesp water, and 
1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Bake in a 
long, narrow, shallow pan. When done -turn out on a clean 
towel, and spread with any preferred jelly, or cake filling. 
Roll up, and then roll in a towel to keep it in shape until it is 
cold. — [Mrs. B. P. B.. Pa. 



JELLY AND BUTTERLBSS CAKES 45 

BoU Jelly Cake (Xo butter) 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1 scant cup sugar, 4 tablesp cold 
water, and 1% cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. 
Bake in a long, narrow, shallow tin, in a rather quick oven. 
When done remove from tin, place on a clean white towel, 
spread with jelly, and roll it up. Leave the towel rolled around 
it until the cake is cold. Dust with powdered sugar before 
serving. — [Mrs. C. G. S. 

Inexpensive Fruit Cake 

Cream 2 cups brown sugar and 1 cup white sugar with scant 
'.% cup shortening, add 2 eggs, ( one will do ) , 1 % cups butter- 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda (or 1% cups black coffee 
and 3 teasp baking powder ) , add ilour to make the dough stiff 
enough so it will hardly drop from spoon. Sift with the flour 
1 teasp each cinnamon and ginger and a little less of cloves. 
Lastly add 1 cup each raisins and currants well dredged with 
flour. Bake two hours in moderate oven. I use milk pans. 
When the cake is cool cover with the following icing : Boil scant 
% cup white sugar and scant % cup sweet milk until it hard- 
ens when dropped from end of spoon. Then remove from fire 
and add 1 teasp vanilla and % cup each chopped seeded raisins 
and walnuts, or any other nut meat. Beat until it begins to 
harden and then spread fluickly over the cake. This cake will 
keep for months and is better when two or three weeks old, 
than when fresh. — [L. J. P., Ore. 

Soft Gingerbread 

Cream % cup shortening with % cup sugar, add 2 eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour 
milk, in which dissolve 2 scant teasp soda, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 1 tablesp cinnamon and 1 teasp each clove and 
nutmeg. — [Mrs. L. E, G., N. Y. 

Hard Gingerbread 

To 1 cup brown sugar, add 1 cup butter and lard mixed, 1 pt 
molasses, 2 teasp baking soda dissolved in 1 cup hot water, 
and 1 tablesp each of ginger and cinnamon, and 1 teasp cloves, 
sifted with flour enough to roll out nicely. Cut in small 
pieces about % inch thick. — ^^[Mrs. B. P. B., Pa. 

Gingerbread or Loaf Cake 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour 
cream and 1 tablesp ginger sifted with 2 cups flour. This recipe 
may be varied by using sugar instead of molasses. It also 
makes a good dark loaf cake by omitting the ginger and add- 
ing other spices to taste, with a few raisins. — [Mrs. G. H. W., 
N. H. 



46 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Gingerbread 

To 1 cup molasses add % cup boiling water and 2% cups 
flour sifted witli 1 teasp each ginger and soda. Beat well, 
then add % cup melted butter and beat again until smooth. 
Bake in two layers in a moderate oven. Make a frosting of 
1 cup powdered sugar wet with cream and flavor with vanilla. 
Spread over the cake and sprinkle while still moist with grated 
or shredded cocoanut. — [Mrs. A. S., N. Y. 

Gocoannt Ijoaf Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 2 scant cups sugar, add 4 or 5 
eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 pt flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder, 
1 cup grated fresh cocoanut, and flavor with % teasp almond 
extract. Bake in a loaf tin. — [A. H., Wis. 

Potato Spice Cake 

.Cream % cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 3 eggs, 1%' 
cups milk, ^, cup grated chocolate, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 
% lb almonds, chopped, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp 
cinnamon, 1% teasp each cloves and nutmeg, and 2 teasp 
baking powder. — [A. H., Wis. 

Quick Sponge Cake 

Beat 3 eggs separately until very light, add 1 cup sugar 
and beat again, 1 tablesp milk and 1 cup flour sifted with 
1 teasp baking powder. Bake in a shallow pan. — [Mrs. W. 
H. B.. Mass. 

Velvet Sponge Cake 

Boil 1 lb sugar with 6 tablesp water until clear; then pour 
this hot syrup into the well-beaten whites of 6 eggs, beating 
vigorously all the while, and after the mixture has cooled 
some, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, and lastly 2 cups flour, 
but no baking jwwder. — [Mrs. J. S. W., Pa. 

liomon Sponge Cake 

Beat to a cream 1 scant cup sugar and yolks of 4 eggs, add 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, stir until creamy and then 
add the beaten whites of 4 eggs and mix in lightly without 
"beating 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. It is 
best to add whites of the eggs and the flour little by little, 
alternately. The mixing must be done very lightly, as beat- 
ing the batter makes this cake tough. — [Anon., Col. 



SPONGE AND EGG CAKES 47 



Fairy Sponge Cake 

This is an excellent cake to eat with fruits, ices, creams, 
etc. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 2 cups sugar until very 
light, add to this the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, then 
scant % cup boiling water in which 1 tablesp butter has been 
dissolved. Then add gradually 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp 
baking powder, and lastly the stifHy beaten whites of eggs. 
It is best to sift the flour several times, as this makes a finer 
grained cake. Bake in a loaf tin, and frost with a boiled 
icing. — IMrs. A. S., Tenn. 

Gold Cake — Silver Cake 

This recipe will use up in the two cakes the yolks and the 
whites of the eggs, and do away with the objection of having 
one or the other left over. For the silver cake cream ^^ cup 
butter with 1 cup white sugar, add % cup milk, 1 % cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp baking powder, and flavor with lemon 
extract. Lastly add the beaten whites of 4 eggs. For the gold 
cake cream % cup butter or any good shortening with 1 cup 
brown sugar, add the yolks of 4 eggs, % cup milk, and 2 cups 
flour sifted with 1 % teasp baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 
These are two fine cakes and the recipes have never 
failed me. — [Mrs. W. C, Mich. 

Huckleberry Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 3 tablesp butter, 1 egg, %" cup milk, 2' 
cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. ' Lastly stir in 
1 pt fresh huckleberries. Bake in a square, shallow tin. 
This is nice warm or cold, and may be eaten with or without, 
sauce, as preferred. — [Mrs. E. B. S., Pa. 

Blackberry Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 2 eggs, (saving 
out the white of one for icing), 4 tablesp cold water, 1 cup 
cooked blackberries, juice and all, and 2 cups flour sifted with 
1 teasp each soda and cinnamon, and % teasp cloves. Bake 
in two layers and put together with any preferred icing. This 
cake may also be baked in patty pans, the tops scooped out 
when cold, and the cakes filled with sweetened whipped 
cream. It is nice to serve these little cakes for dessert with 
a generous portion of whipped cream heaped about 
them on the plates. Do not whip the cream until shortly before 
serving. — [Mr^. E. E. S., Pa. 

Fresh Fruit Cake 

This cake can be made with fresh berries of any kind, or 
with pitted cherries. Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, 
add 3 beaten eggs, 1 pt milk and enough flour to make a stiff 



48 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



fcatter, sifted with 3 teasp baking powder. Then dredge the 
fruit with flour and stir in batter the last thing. Bake In 
dripping pan. This is nice eaten warm, with butter or cream. 
IMrs. O. T.. Mich. 

Cornstarch Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar with % cup butter, add % cup sweet 
milk, % cup cornstarch and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp 
cream tartar and scant % teasp soda. Flavor to taste and 
lastly add beaten whites of 3 eggs. May be used for layer or 
loaf cake. — [E. T., Va. 

Ribbon Cake 

Cream 1 % cups sugar with % , cup butter, add 3 eggs, % 
«up milk, and two cups flour sifted with scant 2 teasp baking 
powder. Take out one-third of the batter and add to it spices 
to taste and % cup currants. Bake two light layers and one 
dark layer and put together with jelly or any preferred icing. — • 
lli. W. D., Mass. 

Children's Cake 

Cream % cup sugar and 3 tablesp butter, add 1 egg, % cup 
milk, and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Bake 
in a square tin. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon on top. This is 
a plain, wholesome cake, much liked by children. — [F. 
I. L., Wis 

Cheap Walnut Cake 

Cream scant % cup butter or any other good shortening 
with 1 cup sugar, add 2 beaten eggs, ^ cup milk, 1^ cups 
flour sifted with 2 scant teasp baking powder. Lastly add 1 
cup chopped walnuts. Bake in a square tin, and when cold 
frost, mark off in small squares and put half a walnut on each 
square. — [Mrs. S. E. P., Wash. 

Mocha Cake 

Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar gradually, and 1%' cups 
flour sifted with 1 teasp cream tartar and % teasp soda; lastly 
add % cup boiling milk. In which dissolve 1 teasp butter. 
Beat until light and bake in two layers. When cool put 
together with the following filling: Cream % cup butter with 
1 cup powdered sugar, add 2 teasp strong black coffee, 2 teasp 
powdered cocoa and 1 teasp vanilla extract. Frost top of cake 
with any preferred icing. — r[p. H. K., Pa. 




MIXING THE CAKE BATTER. 




ICING THE FINISHED CAKE. 



MARBLE AND FEATHER CAKE 49 

Tri-colored Marble Cake 

Cream % cup butter and 1 cup sugar, add yolks 3 eggs, one 
at a time, and beat to a cream, then add 1 cup flour sifted 
with % teasp baking powder, and beat well. Next add % 
cup milk and beat the mixture to a creamy consistency. Then 
sift in another cup flour with ^ teasp baking powder and lastly 
stir in whites of 3 eggs. Flavor with lemon extract. The mix- 
ture should not be stifCer than ordinary cake batter. Into a 
well-greased and flour-dredged cake tin pour about one-third 
of the cake mixture, and into the remaining batter put a few 
drops of red coloring (I use the capsules which come with 
gelatine), and 1 teasp vanilla extract. Beat all this well 
together, and drop half of the pink batter in spoonsful unevenly 
over the white batter in the tin. To the remaining batter 
in the mixing bowl now add 1 tablesp grated chocolate or 
cocoa, and after stirring well, pour over the first two layers in 
the tin. Bake in a medium oven about 50 minutes to 1 hour. 
When strawberries or raspberries are in season the pink batter 
can be colored with fruit juices. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Date Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cnp sugar, add 2 well-beaten 
eggs, % cup sweet milk, and 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp 
baking powder. Lastly add % lb dates cut in fine pieces and 
dredged with flour. Flavor with rose and frost with white 
frosting. — [Mrs. W. C. T.. N. Y. 

Cocoa Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 2 eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup sweet milk, in which 
dissolve 1 teasp soda, % cup powdered cocoa, and 2 cups sifted 
flour. Bake in loaf.-r-.IMrs. L. B> G., N. Y. 

Plain Raisin Cake 

Cream 2 cups sugar with 1 cup butter, add 1 cup milk and 
3% cups flour, sifted with 3 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp cin- 
namon, and % teasp each cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Lastly 
fold in 1 cup seeded raisins well dredged with flour, also, some 
citron. If desired. This makes one large cake or two loaves. — ■ 
[M. B. A., O. 

Feather Cake 

To 1 oup sugar add 1 tablesp butter, 1 egg, %' cup sweet 
milk, in which dissolve % teasp soda, 1% cups flour sifted 
with 1 teasp each cream tartar and cinnamon, and % teasp 
each cloves and nutmeg. This makes a nice plain cake. I 
sometimes add % cup raisins for a change. — [Mrs. B. D., Ida. 



50 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Rich Pound Cake 

Cream % lb butter wltb 1 lb sugar, add 7 or 8 eggs, beat- 
ing the yolks and whites separately, and lastly add 1 scant lb 
flour sifted with 1 teasp soda and 2 teasp cream tartar. Bake 
in a slow oven. — [Mrs. A. L. P., Va. 

Spice Cake 

Cream together 1 cup sugar with 1 cup shortening; add 2 
eggs, 1 cup molasses and 1 cup strong, black cofEee. Next add 
4 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp each of baking powder, allspice 
and cinnamon, and 1 teasp each of cloves and nutmeg. This 
will keep for weeks. — [Mrs. C. E. P., N. Y. 

Marble Spice Cake 

For the white part cream % cup butter with 1 scant cup 
sugar. Add 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp bak- 
ing powder, and lastly the whites of 4 eggs. For the dark 
part cream % cup shortening with 1 cup brown sugar, add 
yolks 4 eggs, 1 scant cup molasses, 1 cup milk, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 2 teasp baking powder and spices to suit. Drop in 
well greased tins by tablespoonsful alternately the light and 
the dark batter. Bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. C. E. D., 111. 

Bibbon Layer Cake 

For the white part cream Vz cup butter with 1 cup sugar, 
add % cup sweet milk and 1% cups flour sifted with 1 teasp 
baking powder. Lastly fold in 3 egg whites beaten stiff, and 
flavor to suit. For the dark part cream % cup shortening, 1 
cup sugar, add the yolks of eggs and % cup sour milk, in 
which 1 teasp soda has been dissolved, 1% cups flour sifted 
with cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves to taste, and lastly add 
1 cup seeded raisins dredged with flour. Have the dark part 
rather stiff and put in a well greased tin, pouring the light 
batter on top of the dark. When cold ice with pink frosting. — ■ 
[Mrs. M. I. R.. Mo. 



Devil's Food 



1 



1 have found this recipe to be always successful. Into a 
double boiler or in a pail which fits into the top of a teakettle, 
put % cup sweet milk, % cup sugar, 1 well-beaten egg, and 2 
squares chocolate shredded fine or broken into small pieces. 
Stir and let this cook until it is thick and smooth, stirring it all 
the while. When it has thickened, remove from the fire, and 
let cool. In a mixing bowl cream % cup sugar with % cup 
butter, add 2 well-beaten eggs, % cup milk, 1 teasp soda dis- 
solved in a very little hot water, and scant 1 % cups flour. Fla- 
vor with vanilla. Lastly add the chocolate mixture, stir all 
srell together and bake for about % hour in a moderate oven. 



POUND AND RAISED CAKE 51 

Can also be baked in layers and put together with white frost- 
ing. — [Mrs. F. S., N. Y. 

Old-Fashioned Pound Cake 

Cream 1 lb butter with 1 lb sugar, add one at a time the 
yolks of 1 doz eggs, 1 lb flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. 
Add flour to the above mixture alternately with the whites of 
the eggs. Bake in loaf tins lined with greased paper all around, 
and put a sheet of greased paper over the tin while baking. 
If the oven seems too hot, set a pan of water on the grate above 
the cake. The success of this cake depends upon thorough 
creaming of the butter and sugar, thorough stirring after each 
egg yolk is added, and careful blending of the flour and egg 
whites. The oven should be moderately heated, and the 
baking watched carefully. — [Mrs. W. B. B., Ga. 

Dutch Cake 

To about 1 qt light bread sponge add 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
melted butter size of an egg, % or % cup lukewarm water, 
and flour enough to make a soft dough. Let it rise until it is 
light, then spread on buttered pie plates, or milk pans, and 
after rising again, bake in a moderate oven. When done wet 
the top slightly with water, sprinkle with sugar and cinna- 
mon, dot with pieces of butter, and return to the oven for a 
few minutes. The same dough will answer for buns, cinnamon 
rolls, and old-fashioned rusks. — [Mrs. C. S., Kan. 

Raised Coffee Cake 

Scald 2 cups milk, add % cup butter, % cup sugar, and 1 
teasp salt. When lukewarm add 1 compressed cake of yeast, 
dissolved in % cup lukewarm water, 2 well-beaten eggs, and 
enough flour to make a stiff batter. Lastly add 1 cup raisins 
and V2 cup citron cut fine. Let rise over night. In the morn- 
ing stir up the mixture again and spread in buttered dripping 
pans to a depth of about % inch; cover and let rise, and then 
spread over the top a frosting made as follows: Melt % 
CUD butter, add % cup sugar and 2 teasp cinnamon. When 
the sugar is about half melted add 6 tablesp flour. Spread this 
mixture over the top of cakes and bake from 20 to 30 minutes. 
This makes two good-sized cakes. — [Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 



52 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



PilUn^s and Prostitt^s 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs light, add 4 tablesp powdered sugar 
and spread while cake is warm. — [Mrs. W. R. C, Pa. 

Take confectioner's sugar (not powdered sugar) and wet 
with enough sweet cream or milk so it will spread easily. 
Flavor to taste. — [Mrs. J. C. McC, Vt. 

Dissolve 1 tablesp cornstarch in 1 cup milk, beat 1 egg well 
with % cup sugar and add. Cook until thick and then flavor 
with 1 teasp vanilla. Spread when cool. — [Mrs. W. K., Cal. 

Boil together until it thickens 1 cup sugar and 1 cup sour 
cream. Remove from fire and add 1 cup nut meats. I some- 
times use chopped dates or figs for variety. — [Mrs. G. F., Minn. 

Put in a double boiler' 1% cups milk, butter size of walnut, 
% cup sugar, 1 egg and scant % cup flour. Boil until it 
thickens, stirring constantly. Flavor to taste. — [Mrs. S. E. 
y.. Me. 

Boil slowly about % to % hour 1 cup sweet cream with 2 
cups maple sugar. Remove from fire, let it cool, then stir in 
1 cup chopped English walnuts and beat until creamy. — [Mrs. 
J. C. H., Vt. 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg, 2 or 3 grated sour apples and the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon. Boil until It thickens, 
stirring constantly. Cool before spreading on cake. — [Mrs. 
R. N. P., N. Y. 

A^o the beaten white of 1 egg add 1 cup sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly and then add 1 cup strawberries, crushed. Beat 
together with an egg beater until it is as thick as whipped 
cream. — [O. A., Cal. 

Boil until it candies 1 cup brown sugar, %' cup sweet milk, 
1 tablesp flour and 1 tablesp butter. Remove from fire, beat 
until creamy and spread between layers and on top of cake. — > 
[Mrs. R. A. G., N. T. 

Soak 1 teasp granulated gelatine in 3 tablesp hot water. 
When dissolved and cooled oS a little, add 1 cup confectioner's 
sugar and beat until smooth. Spread at once, or this Icing will 
set. — [Miss L. E. F., Can. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 53 

Cook in a double boiler until it thickens 1 pt sweet cream 
or rich milk, 1 egg, 1 tablesp cornstarch and pinch of salt. Stir 
constantly and after it has thickened remove from fire and 
flavor to taste. — [Miss B. C, la. 

Boil until it threads % lb maple sugar and % cup milk. 
Remove from fire and pour the hot syrup over the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Stir until it begins to thicken, then spread quickly 
between layers of cake. — [E. L. McG., Mich. 

Stir well and let boil until it thickens 1 cup sugar, I cup 
sweet milk, 4 tablesp grated chocolate or cocoa, and yolks of 2 
eggs. Remove from fire, add 1 teasp vanilla, beat well, and 
spread between layers. — [Mrs. R. A. G., N. Y. 

Set 1 cup thick, sweet cream on ice until it is cold and stiff 
and whip with an egg beater as you would egg white, then 
add sugar and flavoring to taste. It is best not to prepare this 
filling until shortly before wanted for serving. — [Mrs. V. A. H., 
N. D. 

To 1 cup maple sugar add 1 cup coffee sugar and 1 cup sweet 
cream. Heat slowly until it dissolves and then boil steadily 
for about % hour. Remove from fire, add 1 cup chopped pecan 
nuts, stir until cold, and spread between cakes. — [Mrs. J. C. 
H., Vt. 

To % cup sugar add 2 tablesp flour, a little grated orange 
rind, % Cup orange juice, 2 teasp lemon juice, 1 teasp butter 
and I beq^en egg. Mix in order given and cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thick. Cool before spreading 
on cake. — [Mrs. J. S. D., N. Y. 

Here is a good substitute when cream is not at hand : Scrape 
or grate 1 good-sized apple into I cup of sugar. Keep on mix- 
ing to prevent the apple from turning dark, then add the 
beaten white of 1 egg and beat for about 20 to 30 minutes. Add 
vanilla flavor. — [Mrs. C. W. J., O. 

Melt 1 teasp butter with 1 tablesp flour, stir in the grated 
rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 2 lemons, with 1 cup sugar, 1 
egg and % cup water. Boil until it thickens and spread 
between layers of cake. This will taste better if kept a day or 
two before cake is cut. — [E. L., Neb. 

Cook until it is thick and ready to candy, 2 cups brown 
sugar, % cup thick cream, and butter size of walnut. Remove 
from fire, beat until cool and add 1 teasp vanilla. Sometimes 
I use white sugar and lemon flavor, and add grated cocoanut 
at the last. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 



54 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Boil 1 cup sugar with % cup water until it threads, thea 
pour on the beaten white of 1 egg and beat until smooth, after 
which add % cup each of figs and raisins cut fine, % cup wal- 
nut meats cut fine, and % cup grated cocoanut. Spread 
between and on top of cake. — [Mrs. H. M., Mo 

■psfut white of 1 egg in a deep bowl, add 1 cup sugar and 1 cup 
red raspberries crushed and the juice drained off. Whip for 
about % hour. If beaten long enough, this filling will be stiff 
and light, like whipped cream. It does not soak into the 
cake at all, and is truly delicious. — [Mrs. S. C. S., N. Y. 

This makes a nice, glossy frosting for the top of a cake. 
Boil together for a few minutes 1 heaping tablesp grated choco- 
late, 2 tablesp sugar and 1 tablesp boiling water. Remove from 
fire, flavor with vanilla, and spread on cake before icing is cold, 
using a broad-bladed knife dipped in cold water to smooth it. 
If the icing seems too thick, add a little more boiling water, 
but never use cold water. — [Miss U. R., la. 

Soak 1 scant tablesp granulated gelatine in enough cold 
water to cover it. When it is soft add scant % cup boiling 
water and stir till dissolved, then add % cup sugar and any 
preferred flavoring. Beat with an egg beater until the mix- 
ture is white and begins to get firm. Before it gets too stiff, 
beat into it 1 pt of whipped cream. The cream should be 
whipped first, and the gelatine mixture should be added to it 
gradually. This filling will keep stiff indefinitely. Be careful 
not to use too much gelatine. — [Mrs. K. R. F., Tex., 




eookies, ©Packers, and Small Gakes 

O keep the cookie jar replenished keeps 
many a mother and housewife busy and 
often necessitates a baking every week, for 
not only the young folks but "children of an 
older growth" frequently manifest their 
fondness for these wholesome little dainties 
by surreptitious inroads on the reserve supply, much to the 
dismay of the indulgent cook, who, however, apparently 
ignores these small depredations and wisely looks upon 
them as a tribute to her skill. Every one has his or her 
favorite cookie, but a little variety is generally welcomed 
by all. If you find among the following recipes any that 
are new to you, but "sound good," why not try them? A 
change will vary the monotony for the cook and provide a 
delightful surprise for the family. 

Brown Cookies 

Cream % cup shortening with 2 cups brown sugar, add 1 
egg, 1 heaping teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour cream, and 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Bake in hot oven and 
watch closely, so_they will not burn. — [Mrs. J. P., Minn. 

Chocolate Cookies 

Cream % cup butter or shortening with 2 cups brown sugar, 
add 2 eggs, 1 scant cup grated chocolate, melted, and flour 
enough to roll very thin, sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. — 
[Mrs. C. B. G.. Ariz. 

Christmas Cookies 

The ingredients required for these eookies are 1 qt molasses, 
1 pt sugar, 1 tablesp lard, 2 teasp each soda, cinnamon and 
caraway seed, and 1 tablesp cloves. Mix the soda and spices 
in the flour. Boil the molasses and pour over the flour, melt 
the lard and put in last. — [M. K. G., la. 

Graham Cookies 

To 2 cups sugar add 2 cups sour cream, 5 cups graham 
flour sifted, 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp molasses, 2 teasp each 

55 



56 FARM AND HOM E COOK BOOK 

soda and cinnamon, and 1 teasp salt. Have ready well greased 
tins and drop batter on it by teasfioonsful about 2 or 3 inches 
apart. Dip the teaspoon in cold water every time before dip- 
ping it into the batter again. Sprinkle the cookies with sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. A. W. T., Mich. 

Buttermilk Molasses Cookies 

Cream 1 cup lard with 1 cup brown sugar, add 2 cups 
molasses, 2 even tablesp soda dissolved in 1 cup buttermilk, 1 
teasp each ginger and cinnamon, sifted with flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Let stand over night, roll out, cut, spread 
with sugar, and bake in a quick oven. This is a never-failing 
recipe which has been used a long time in our family. — [E. 
M. C, Mich. 

Coffee Ginger Cookies 

Thoroughly mix 1 cup shortening with 2 cups sugar, add 1 
cup molasses and 3 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup hot, black 
coffee. Let cool, then add 1 beaten egg, 2 teasp vanilla, a little 
salt, and flour enough to roll, sifted with 3 teasp ginger. Roll 
soft, cut, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. Y. 

Maple Sugar Ginger Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter, add 2 cups maple sugar rolled fine, 1 
egg, % cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, flour 
enough to make a dough that can be rolled, sifted with 1 teasp 
each salt and ginger, and % teasp cream tartar. Roll % inch 
thick, cut in squares, and bake in a slow oven. — [M. P., N. H. 

Ginger Cookies (No eggs) 

Cream 1 cup shortening with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup hot water, in which dissolve 2 teasp soda, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, sifted with 2 teasp each ginger 
and cinnamon. Let this batter stand a while, so as to give the 
flour a chance to swell, as the hot water takes the place of eggs. 
Use no more flour than necessary to form a soft dough for 
rolling out. These are excellent and economical cookies, and 
the only trick is to use as little flour as possible. — FMrs B G 
Mich. ■ ■' 

Soft Ginger Cookies 

Stir together 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup shortening, 
1 egg, 1 yolk of an egg, 1 tablesp vinegar, 1 heaping teasp 
ginger, 1 level teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water 
and flour enough to make stiff. Roll, cut out the cookies, and 
dip the tops in the white of an egg (do not beat the white) 
then dip in sugar. Bake in a moderate oven and watch care- 
fully, as they burn easily. — [Mrs. J. J. M., 111. 



MOLASSES AND MAPLE SYRUP COOKIES 57 

Sorghum Cookies 

Put 1 pt best sorghum, or molasses, in an agate pan with 
2 heaping tablesp butter, and let It heat to the boiling point. 
Then stir in 1 pt flour, and when cold add 2 eggs, well beaten, 
1 teasp each cinnamon and ginger, and 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in 1 tablesp sharp vinegar. Also add a little cloves, if the fla- 
voring is liked, and then flour enough to roll thin. Bake in a 
moderate oven. — [B. W., Wis. 

Molasses Gookies 

Beat 1 egg, add 1 cup molasses, 3 tablesp vinegar, scant 1 
cup lard, 3 teasp soda dissolved in % cup hot water, 1 tablesp 
ginger sifted with flour enough to make a dough that can be 
handled. Roll % inch thick, cut in any desired shape, and 
bake in hot oven, watching carefully so they will not burn. — ■ 
[I. A. S., Me. 

Marbled Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 4 well-beaten eggs 
and 3 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp soda and 2 teasp cream 
tartar (or substitute for the soda and cream tartar 2 teasp 
baking powder) . Divide the dough and in one half mix % 
cup grated, melted chocolate and to the other half add the 
juice and grated rind of an orange. Add more flour to each 
half if necessary. Combine both portions into a streaked lump, 
and roll thin. Bake in rather hot oven. — [Mrs. J. W., N. Y. 

Popcorn Cookies 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 teasp 
vanilla, % teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 1 teasp 
cream tartar sifted with flour to make a dough stiff enough to 
roll thin. Bake in a quick oven. When these are properly 
made you will readily see why I call them popcorn cookies. — ■■ 
[Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Eggless Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 1 cup milk, and 
1 teasp baking powder gifted with flour enough to make a 
dough of the proper consistency. These will keep nice and 
fresh (or weeks. — [A. C. S., Miss. 

Maple Syrup Cookies 

To 1 beaten egg add T cup maple syrup, 1 teasp soda dis- 
solved in a little hot water, 6 tablesp melted lard, salt and 
ginger to taste, and flour enough to make a dough that can be 
handled. — [L A. S., Me. 



58 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Batter Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg and 4 tablesp 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda. Beat this mix- 
ture well, then add enough flour so the dough will not stick to 
the hands. Roll very thin, cut, and bake in a hot oven. — 
[Mrs. B. W., Wis. 

Anise Cookies 

To 1 lb sugar (scant) add 1 tablesp butter, 3 or 4 eggs, % 
cup almonds, blanched and chopped, % teasp anise seed, and 
flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead, sifted with 1 
teasp baking powder and a little salt. Form In a loaf about 4 
inches wide and 1 inch thick, let stand over night, and in the 
morning cut up in slices and bake. — [A. H., Wis. 

Cocoanut Cookies 

Beat 2 eggs until light, add gradually 1 cup sugar, % cup 
grated or dessicated cocoanut, 1 cup thick, sweet cream, and 
3 cups flour sifted with 3 level teasp baking powder and 1 
teasp salt. Roll to % inch thick, sprinkle with some cocoanut 
and then roll down to % inch thick, and cut out and bake.—" 
[Mrs. C. J. C, Wis. 

Buttermilk Cookies (\o eggs) 

Cream scant % cup lard with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup butter- 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 teasp lemon or vanilla 
extract, salt to taste and flour to stiffen. Roll out quite thick, 
cut, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. J. H. W., Me. 

Wheat Cookies (No eggs) 

Cream % cup butter with 2 scant cups sugar, add 1 teasp 
soda dissolved in % cup hot water, then add 2 cups crushed 
(steamed) wheat. Roll thin like ginger snaps, and bake in 
moderate oven. Rolled oats may be substituted for the wheat. 
[C. M., Pa. 

Walnut Cookies 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, % cup 
milk, 1 cup walnut meats cut fine, 1 teasp vanilla, and 1 teasp 
baking powder mixed with flour enough to make a stiff drop 
batter. Drop in little cakes on greased tins. — [Mrs. R. C, 
Mass. 

Peanut Cookies 

Cream 4 tablesp butter with % cup sugar, add 2 eggs, 4 
tablesp milk, 1 teasp lemon extract, a little salt, and 1 cup 



OATMEAL COOKIES AND MACAROONS 59 



flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Lastly add 1 cup 
chopped peanuts. Drop on buttered tins by tablespoonsful, 
and bake in a moderate oven. This makes about a dozen 
cookies. — [E. H., Wash. 

Oatmeal Jelly Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter and 1 cup lard with 1 cup white sugar 
and 1 cup brown sugar, add 8 tablesp hot water, in which 
dissolve 1 teasp soda, then stir in 6 cups oatmeal ( 3 put through 
the meat chopper — fine cut), and lastly add 2 cups flour. Roll, 
cut and spread with the following filling and fold over: Fill- 
ing — To 1 lb seeded and chopped raisins add 1 cup sugar and a 
little water and boil until the consistency of jelly. — [Mrs. F. 
W. R.. Mich. 

Oatmeal Xnt Cookies 

Cream scant % cup butter, add gradually 1 cup light brown 
eugar, then 2 well-beaten eggs, and 4 tablesp sweet milk. 
Next stir in 2 cups rolled oats, and when these are well mois- 
tened, add 1 cup flour sifted with 1 level teasp each soda and 
salt, also cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg to taste. Lastly add 
1 cup seeded and chopped raisins and % cup chopped nut 
meats dredged with flour. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered 
tins far enough apart so they will not crowd and run together. 
If the batter does not seem stiff enough, add more flour. — 
[Mrs. J. A. W., Mo. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter and lard mixed, with 1 % cups sugar, add 
3 eggs, % cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 
cups rolled oats, 2 cups flour, sifted with a little salt and I heap- 
ing teasp cinnamon. Lastly mix in 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins. Drop by spoonsful on buttered tins, and bake in a 
moderate oven. — [Mrs. M. D. M., Wash. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp vanilla, 2% cups 
rolled (steamed) oats, 1 teasp baking powder, a little salt, and 
1 tablesp melted butter. Drop by teaspoonsful on greased tins, 
and bake. When done slip a knife under each cookie, carefully 
remove from tin, and cool. — [Mrs. R. C, Mass. 

JeUy Jumbles 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, % teasp 
soda dissolved in % cup sour milk, and flour enough to roll. 
Roll about % inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter and from 
half of these cut out the center with a large thimble. Spread 



60 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



jelly over the biscuit halves, cover with the doughnut halves, 
and bake. This will make about 23 jumbles. — [Mrs. A. R. w., 
Mass. 

Russian Rocks 

Cream 1 scant cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 3 
eggs, one at a time, 1 % teasp soda dissolved in % cup boiling 
water, 1 lb seeded and chopped raisins, 1 lb nut meats, cut 
fine, % teasp each cinnamon and cloves, sifted with 3 cups 
flour. Drop by teaspoonsful on greased tins, and bake. — i 
[M. R.. Tex. 

Date Rocks 

Cream 1 cup butter with % eup sugar, add 3 eggs, 1 teasp 
soda dissolved in 2 tablesp water, flour enough to make a stiff 
batter, sifted with 1 teasp each cinnamon and allspice, and 
lastly add 2 lbs dates, pitted and cut fine. Drop by spoonsful 
on greased cookie pans, and when baked brush with any pre- 
ferred icing. — [Mrs. C. W. S., Wis. 

Ginger Snaps 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup molasses 
and 1 tablesp ginger, 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little water, 
and as much flour as can possibly be stirred in (not kneaded). 
Pinch off pieces about the size of a marble, roll in the hands, 
pat flat and put on well greased tins, allowing space between 
each one for spreading. Bake in a moderate oven until a nice 
brown, and leave in the pan until they cool sufficiently to be 
"snappy." — [E. B. U., Mo. 

Ginger Snaps (Xo shortening) 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 scant tablesp 
soda, 1 teasp ginger, pinch salt, 1 tablesp vinegar, and flour 
enough to make a soft dough that will roll. Roll very thin and 
bake in a moderate oven. These will not harden until they 
are cold. — [Mrs. S. M. A., N. Y. 

Ginger Snaps with Buttermilk 

Thoroughly mix 1 cup lard with 1 cup sugar, add 1 pt 
molasses, 1 cup buttermilk, in which dissolve 1 tablesp soda, 
and 1 tablesp ginger sifted with enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Let stand over night, roll thin, cut, and bake in a hot 
oven. — [Mrs. D. A. F., Pa. 

Coffee Drops 

Mix 2 cups sugar with 6 or 7 tablesp lard, add 2 eggs, 1 cup 
molasses, 2 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup hot coffee, and 1 teasp 



SPONGE, GINGER AND COCOANUT DROPS 61 



allspice sifted with about 5 cups flour. Drop by teaspsoonsful 
on buttered tins. Bake in quick oven. Remove from tins, lay 
on a board to cool, and pack away in jars with bits of cheese- 
cloth laid between each layer. — [Mrs. C. H. H., N. Y. 

Ginger Drops 

To 1 cup N O molasses add 1 cup melted shortening, % cup 
melted butter, ^s cup sugar, 1 tablesp ginger, scant % cup 
water, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and flour enough so 
that the batter can be dropped by teaspoonsful. Lastly add 
2 well-beaten eggs. Bake quickly. It is best to try a little 
before adding too much flour, or they will be spoiled. Drop 
the batter by spoonsful about 2 inches apart on well greased 
tins. For the sake of variety I sometimes add % cup grated 
cocoanut or % cup currants, or same quantity of chopped 
raisins, or 1 tablesp mixed spices and % teasp black pepper. — ■ 
[Mrs. B. J. C, Neb. 

Sponge Drops 

Beat 3 eggs together, add I cup sugar, and 1 cup flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cream tartar. Dissolve % teasp soda in 
a little warm water and stir this through the batter thoroughly. 
Flavor to taste. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered tins, and 
bake in a hot oven. — [Miss E. W., N. H. 

Oatmeal Drops 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup brown sugar, add 2 eggs, %' 
cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups oatmeal 
and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon. Lastly add I 
cup currants and % cup nut meats lightly dredged with flour. 
Drop by spoonsful on greased tins and bake. — [Mrs. J. L. 
K., la. 

Cocoannt Drops 

To 1 grated cocoanut add ^^ to % lb sugar and 2 or 3 
eggs. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered tins, far enough apart 
so they will not run together, and bake a light brown. — [Mrs. 
W. H. C, N. C. 

Sonr Cream Cakes (Xo batter) 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup sugar, 1% cups sour cream 
In which dissolve I teasp soda, 1 tablesp of any preferred fla- 
voring, and 2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to 
roll. Cut % Inch thick. These cakes will rise, and are like 
small sour-cream sponge cakes. — [Mrs. R. A. G.. N. Y. 



62 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Spice Squares 

To 1 cup sugar add 4 tablesp melted butter, 2 tablesp molas- 
ses, 1 egg, 1 cup sour milk, in which, dissolve 1 level teasp 
soda, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and % teasp 
each cloves, nutmeg and allspice. Beat well for about two 
minutes and then turn into a square tin, having the batter no 
more than about 1 inch deep. Sprinkle granulated sugar on 
the top and bake about 40 minutes in moderate oven. When 
cold cut in squares and put away in stone crock. These cakes 
are better the day after they are baked. — [J. C. W., Mass. 

Cream Puffs 

Melt % cup butter in 1 cup hot water and when boiling beat 
in 1 cup flour. Stir until it works up in a ball and does not 
stick to the pan, then remove from fire and cool, after which 
stir in 3 eggs, one at a time, without beating any more than is 
necessary. Drop tablespoonsful of this mixture on buttered 
tins, and bake in a moderate oven, until light brown. When 
cool make little openings in the sides of the puffs and fill 
with whipped and sweetened cream, or with a cream made by 
boiling together 1 cup milk, 1 egg, scant % cup sugar, and 2 
tablesp flour. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. — [Miss F. C. A., 
Mass. 

CaraTray-seed Cup Cakes 

Cream % cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 2 cups sour cream, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 
tablesp caraway-seed, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in well greased iron gem pans in a hot oven. Don't fill 
the gem pans more than half full. — [R. A. McD., S. D. 

Oatmeal Date Cakes 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 tgasp soda 
dissolved in % cup water, 2 cups rolled oats, and 3 cups flour. 
Roll out % inch thick, spread half of the dough surface with 
dates, pitted and cut fine, turn the other half of the dough 
over it, roll thin, cut out, and bake. — [S. B. F., Cal. 

Lady Fingers 

Beat to a cream 1 cup sugar and 2 eggs, add 4 tablesp milk, 
and flour enough to thicken, sifted with 2 scant teasp baking 
powder. Roll and cut in small pieces size of finger and bake in 

quick oven. When cold dust with powdered sugar. [Miss I 

J. K., Minn. 



OATMEAL. AND GRAHAM CRACKERS 63 



Strawberry Fingers 

Boil together 1 cup fresh, cold water and % cup butter. Into 
this boiling mixture stir 1 cup sifted flour, and stir constantly 
until it rolls together In a ball. When partly cool, add 4 eggs, 
beating in one at a time, but do not beat the eggs separately. 
Drop this mixture on a thin, buttered tin in long, narrow 
strips, one inch apart. Bake in a moderate oven until well 
risen and a delicate brown — % hour is generally enough. 
The oven door should be left open a few minutes before remov- 
ing the fingers therefrom. This will prevent them from col- 
lapsing. When cool split the fingers on one side, fill with 
crushed strawberries, or strawberry jam. Spread tops of 
fingers with an icing colored with the berry Juice. — [Mrs. N. 
P., N. H. 

Sugar Crackers 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 1 egg, % teasp 
soda dissolved in % cup cold water, and 1 teasp cream tartar 
sifted with flour enough to roll. Mix soft, roll thin and bake 
quickly. These crackers are crisp and delicious. — [Mrs. E. W. 
R., N. Y. 

Cheap Oatmeal Crackers 

To 1 cup rolled oats add 1 cup flour with a small pinch bak- 
ing powder, a little salt, and 1 tablesp sugar. Rub 2 tablesp 
butter in this mixture and just enough water to hold it 
together. Roll out thin on a floured board, cut and bake. — > 
[M. L. Q., Me. 

Graham Crackers 

Cream % cup butter with % cup sugar, add % teasp soda 
dissolved in % cup water, about a handful white flour, and 
enough graham flour to roll. Roll thin, cut in any desired 
shape, and bake in a quick oven. — [R. W., Mo. 

Lemon Crackers 

.' Cream 1 cup snortening with 2% cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 1 
scant cup milk, 1% teasp baking ammonia, with flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Let stand about 3 hours to rise, then 
add a little oil of lemon, and flour enough to make batter a 
little stiffer than for cookies. Roll, cut, and bake. — [Mrs. S. 
E. F., Cal. 

fiattermilk Crackers 

Cream % lb lard with 2 lbs sugar, add 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in scant 1% pts buttermilk. Flavor with a little lemon, if 



64 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



liked, and then sift in 2^^ qts ilour, or perhaps a little more, 
if needed. Roll thin, cut with a small, round cutter, prick 
■with a fork, and bake in a not too hot oven. — [Mrs. N. P., N. H. 

Cheese Crackers 

Spread a layer of puff paste with some grated cheese and 
a little cayenne pepper. Double up paste, roll out again rather 
thin, and cut it with a small, round pastry cutter. Glaze with 
the white of an egg, lay the crackers on a floured tin, and bake 
In a quick oven to a pale straw color. — [Mrs. J. P. Q., N. Y. 

Whole-wheat Crackers 

Into about 2 qts whole-wheat flour, sifted with 1 tablesp 
baking powder, cut 1 cup shortening. In another bowl break 
3 eggs, beat well, add 3 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp salt and 1% 
pts water. Add this to the flour and shortening mixture, and 
if necessary add more flour. Roll as thin as pie crust, prick 
with a fork, cut in squares or in any fancy shape desired, place 
on lightly greased tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven 
until brown. After they are done let them stand in the oven 
a few minutes with the door open, to let the crackers dry out. 
They will then be nice and crisp. Oraham crackers can be 
made by following this same recipe, hut substituting graham 
flour for the whole-wheat flour. — [S. E. H., Cal. 

Graham Wafers 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup sour cream, 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, mix soft with graham flour, roll 
thin, and bake quickly. These are wholesome and good for 
the children. — [Mrs. E. W. R., N. Y. 

Vanilla Wafers 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar (or use lard and but- 
ter mixed), add 1 egg, 4 tablesp sweet cream, 1 scant tablesp 
vanilla, 1 % teasp cream tartar and scant % teasp soda, sifted 
with flour enough to roll. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 
These are fine. — [Mrs. A. S., N. H. 

Ice Cream Wafers 

Make a meringue of the thoroughly beaten whites of 2 
eggs, pinch salt and 2 tablesp powdered sugar, then add %' 
cup chopped nut meats and spread this mixture on plain wafers 
or salted crackers, and bake only just long enough to cook 
the meringue. This is nice to serve with ice cream. — TMrs. A. 
J. P.. Wis. 



■^^^■^HH 








^^^^^^^HBH^^H 


1 ^l^^p^^^s^O '/ ^^^^I^^^^^^^^^^^^^R^P^^^^^^^^^^^^I 


^^HH^HI 


K^^*^" '^ " ' ' ^^^^^H^^^^K^M^^^^^^I 


^H^^^^H 


^^^' l^S^^^KBs^S^^^^k 


^^■^^I^^^^^H 


li^ J^W^^^^H 


I^^^B 


^^^H 


1 ' IS ' * ' *'''^ 'R^ ^^B 


^^^^^^^H^^^H 


K ■i(iw* ^ '^E .^^^^1 


M^^^^^^^^^^^^^l 


P MiAiiP'**'''! " 2^ "^ '' |||?p*' ^^^^^H 


|^^^^H| 


^ ■■' • \^w/f^% ' s^^^' .^^^^^^^1 


^^^^^H 




^^^^^^^^^^1 


|[^K»j» ^ f«k1- ^miwn^^^^^B^ 


■1 






^ .- 




[fr ^ 


^S^^H 


I^^^HP^ 






^^ 1 }{|l^^g^H^^^^^^^^^^^^| 


^^^^^^^^^' 




^H ' l1^'J!^^^.^^^^^^^^^^^^^^I^^^H 


^Ki 






■Hlffi'^i-' 


' ^1'' ^ .'*^^ *'W "^w^^^^^^H 


■^^^^^^^H 


^■^^^ *# ^ "& '"^ , ' . 'Btt^^^S^^m^HI 


i^^^^^^^l 


I^^eFw ' '''%i '-'*'• ' 1 '^^^|H||h^^^h^^B 


f^l^^H^^^I 


^^^^^P J ^ ' ^ B ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^^^^^^^^^^^l^^^ll 


^^^H^^H 




^^I^H^^^I 




fl^l^^^^^^^^^l 


^_P , /■MH/'- 'r^l^^^H 


I^^^^^H^^^^H 


^■i * * - • J ^^mM -- ^IH^^I 


^H^^^^H 


H^B flnHfll "< ^^^^^^^1 


^^H^^IH 


HI^eP ^J^^^^HhIb ~< s^^^^^^^^l 




HBBBK BE^^^^^^HHV S^^^^^^^^^^M 


^^^^^^^H^H^H 


■HiB J^H^His^^ W^^^^M 


^^^^^H^^^H 


^B ^HI^Hi'' '^^^^^H 


HH 


w^^XaH 


m^^SSSsBHRHI Iffi^^^^^^^l 


•^^i^'^'.Ji^H 


■■H 




^^^^^^^I^^^H 




^^^^^H 






l#"UJ^ ■'*ji"-'ii^i 




i^^HH 





GRAHAM AND NUT WAFERS 65 



Wheat Wafers 

To 1 pt -whole-wheat flour add % teasp salt, rub in 1 tablesp 
butter and make Into a stiff dough with milk. Break off bits 
size of a walnut, and roll very thin. Bake in a hot oven until 
a golden brown. — [E. E. K., Mass. 

Peanut Wafers 

Cream 2 tablesp butter with % cup sugar, add 1 well-beaten 
egg, 2 tablesp milk, % cup flour sifted with 1 tevel teasp, bak- 
ing powder, and % teasp salt. Flavor with 1 teasp lemon 
Juice, and last of all mix in % cup finely chopped peanuts. 
Drop by spoonsful on ungreased pans about 1 inch apart, and' 
place half a peanut on top of each wafer. Bake about 12 min- 
utes In a moderate oven. This recipe will make 24 wafers.—' 
[K. A. D., N. D. 

Walnut Wafers 

To 2 well-beaten eggs, add % lb each white sugar and brown 
sugar, 5% tablesp flour sifted with V2 teasp baking powder 
and % teasp salt, and ^ cup black walnut meats, cut fine. 
Drop by spoonsful on greased pans and bake. — [C. B. O., Kan. 

Delmonico Cakes 

Grate ^A cake (1 cup) unsweetened chocolate into a bowl, 
then pour over it % cup boiling water in which 1 teasp soda 
was dissolved. Let this mixture stand while preparing the 
following : Cream % cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 
2 eggs, % cup sour milk, and 2% cups flour. Mix well and 
then add the chocolate mixture. Bake in shallow, square tins. 
When nearly cool, ice and cut into cubes about 2 inches square. 
[L. E. W., Mich. 

Snow Balls 

Mix % cup lard with 2 cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 2 cups sour 
milk or buttermilk, into which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and flour 
enough to make a batter a little stiffier than cake batter. Beat 
until smooth and fill well greased iron gem pans half full. 
Bake quickly in a steady, hot oven. By the time they are done 
have ready a boiled frosting and frost the tops and sides of 
the little cakes by inserting a fork in the bottom of each cake 
and dipping it in the frosting. This must be done quickiy 
while the cakes are still warm, and before the frosting sets.— 5 
[R. A. McD., N. D. 




Pies and Shortcakes 

LL rich pastry preparations are hard tc 
digest, according to learned authorities, and 
therefore pie is not considered healthful. 
But when pastry is prepared by a skillful 
cook, the discomforts, not to say dangers, 
which are supposed to attend its consump- 
tion, can be reduced to a minimum, by art- 
ful blending and sensible omissions. Rich crusts that in 
their composition call for equal parts of flour and butter or 
shortening, are rarely used in these days, because they are 
too rich, too indigestible and too expensive, and because we 
have found better ways of preparing acceptable substitutes. 
The chief requisites are that pie crust should be light and 
flaky, and not soggy and leathery, as some "counterfeits" 
are turned out. Much depends upon the pie filling, also, 
for dyspepsia often lurks in that delectable article, as well 
as in the greasy crust. It behooves each cook, therefore, to 
take careful note of the gastronomical idiosyncrasies of the 
family, and to wisely adjust her pastry selections and prep- 
irations accordingly. The following recipes would seem 
to offer a large enough variety in the line of pies and pastry 
to satisfy all tastes. They were sent in as "tried and tested" 
by Farm and Home readers, and since the consumers lived 
to tell about the pies and such things that they prepared and 
ate, the recipes would seem to be safe for others to try.. 
Take your choice. 

Suet Pie Crost 

To 2 caps flour add % teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
■alt; then mix in % cup clear suet witli a chopping knife 
until the whole is smooth and fine grained. Then add sweet 
milk to make a dough that can be rolled out. The suet should 
fee measured after it has been clarified and cooled. — [Mrs. A. 
M., K Y. 

6S 



PLAIN AND RICH PIE CRUSTS 67 

Plain Pie Crust 

To 2% cups sifted flour add a pinch salt and a heaping 
teasp baking powder. Then mix in 1 cup shortening (I use 
one-half butter and one-half lard), using a chopping knife 
to cut through the flour, and lastly add about % cup cold 
water, or enough to make a stiff dough. Mix and handle 
as little as possible — only just enough to get it into shape and 
to roll it out. This amount will make two pies. — [Mrs. E. 
D., Ida. 

Flaky Fie Crust 

The rule that I follow for measuring for pie crust is always 
one-half the quantity of the previous ingredients. Thus 1 
cup flour, % cup lard, % cup water. The secret of having 
flaky pie crust is in chopping or cutting the different ingredi- 
ents together, always using a knife. In rolling out do not use 
any more flour than is absolutely necessary. Cut or chop 
the lard through the flour until the former is in pieces about 
the size of small beans. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Sweet Cream Pie Crust 

To 1 cup thick sweet cream add 1 tablesp sugar and mix this 
into 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a 
pinch of salt. This quantity is enough for two pies. — [Mrs. 
li. S., Minn. 

Sour Cream Pie Crust 

"We think this is the most wholesome pie crust of any that 
we have tried. Dissolve 1 level teasp soda in 1 pt thick sour 
cream, and pour this mixture with a little salt added into 
sufiieient flour to make a dough of the proper consistency. Roll 
into rather thin crusts. — [Mrs. A. C. W., W. Va. 

Egg Pie Crust 

Here is a wholesome pie crust that never fails me. To 1 
cup flour, add a pinch salt, % teasp baking powder, 2 
tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp butter, and 1 tablesp lard. Work 
together thoroughly with a batter spoon, fork or knife, and 
then wet with 1 beaten egg. — [Mrs. P. A., Minn. 

Bich Puff Paste 

Into 1 lb flour cut or chop Vz lb butter, and add cold water 
enough to make a dough that can be rolled. Roll out on a 
board and gradually work In another V2 lb butter by spreading 
a little at a time over the crust, folding over, and rolling out 
again, repeating this operation half a dozen times or more, or 
until all the butter is used. Keep the dough as cold as possible 



68 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and if, while working, it seems to get too soft and warm, set 
It away for 10 or 15 minutes in an ice box, and finish rolling 
with butter after it is good and cold again. — [Mrs. P. A. B., 111. 

Baked Pie Crust 

All pie crust made of lard should be handled as little as pos- 
sible, in order that it may be tender and feathery. In mak- 
ing crusts to be used for lemon or cream pies, or any that have 
to be baked before the filling is put in, instead of the inside I 
cover the outside of my pie tins with the dough. Prick with a 
fork and turn the tin upside down to bake. In this way the 
crust will not shrink or puff as it is likely to do if put on the 
inside. When done it can be slipped off and put inside and is 
then ready to fill. I use the same method when making tart 
shells in patty tins. — [Mrs. L. M. D., Mich. 

Mince Meat I 

To 1 qt raw chopped beef, add 1 pt chopped suet, 2 qts 
chopped apples, 1 qt cider (sweet or sour), 1 pt thick boiled 
cider, % pt molasses, 1 pt liquor in which the meat was cooked, 
1 pt brown sugar, 1 tablesp each cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, 
and salt, % tablesp cloves; also seeded raisins in abundance. 
Boil together two hours, except apples and raisins, which 
should be added the last half hour. If liked add butter to these 
pies when baking them. — [Mrs. J. C. McC, Vt. 

Mince Meat II 

To 2 pts lean boiled beef chopped fine, add 4 pts tart apples, 
1 pt sweet apples, 1 pt molasses, 1 pt boiled cider, % pt vinegar, 
1 lb each seeded raisins and currants, 1 lb brown sugar, 1 
teasp each salt, allspice and cloves, 2 teasp cinnamon, 1 grated 
nutmeg, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange, and the 
juice of both. Mix thoroughly, bring to a boil, and set away in 
fruit cans. This will keep a long time. — [Mrs. M. A. B., Tenn. 

-4^ Mince Meat IH 

To 4 lbs beef, cooked and chopped, add 3 lbs chopped suet, 
8 lbs seeded raisins, 4 lbs currants, 8 lbs sugar, 16 lbs chopped 
apples, 1 tablesp each allspice, nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon; 
any kind, fruit juice or jelly — sweet pickle or canned fruit juice 
— to make 1 gal, and 1 qt cider or vinegar. Mix well, boil up 
once and put away in jars. This does not need air-tight sealing. 
Tie closely 'with paper and keep in a dark, dry, and cool place. 
. — [Mrs.-'C. T. C. New Mex. 



MINCE AND LEMON PIES 69 



Pork Mince 

At pig killing time save 1 head, 1 heart, and 2% lbs 
tenderloin. Wash and scrape the first two thoroughly and put 
on altogether and cook until perfectly tender. Remove bones 
and grind fine in a meat chopper, add 3 lbs chopped apples, 2 
lbs each seeded raisins and currants, % lb chopped citron, 2 or 
3 oranges (grated yellow rind and chopped pulp, discarding 
seeds and white peel), 2 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp cinnamon, and 
enough cider to make it as juicy as liked. Cook in a granite 
kettle until the fruit is done, being careful not to let it scorch. 
Have ready some glass fruit jars, pack the mince in these 
and seal while hot. Keep in a cool, dark, and dry place. This 
makes excellent mince pies, and just as good as any beef mince 
pie I ever tasted. — [Mrs. A. C, W. Va. 

Green Tomato Mince 

Chop fine, drain off the juice, and then measure 6 cups 
green tomatoes, add 6 cups sour chopped apples, 4 cups brown 
sugar, 2 cups molasses, ^ cup butter, % cup vinegar, and 1 
tablesp salt. Cook about 3 hours, and when nearly done add 
,% grated nutmeg, 1 scant teasp cloves and 1 teasp each all- 
spice and cinnamon. If liked add raisins when making these 
pies. Every one enjoys our "mince" pies, and will hardly 
believe it when I tell them it is only tomato pie. We put up 
a large quantity of this mince every fall. — [Miss M. E. B., Mich. 

Lemon Pie 

Moisten 1 heaping tablesp corn starch in a little cold water, 
add 1 cup boiling water, and cook until the corn starch is done, 
then add 1 teasp butter, 1 cup sugar; remove from fire, stir 
vigorously, and when cooled off a little add 1 well-beaten egg 
and the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake between two 
crusts. — [Mrs. N. J., Mont. 

Mock Lemon Pie 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 heaping tablesp flour, the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, 1 teasp lemon extract, % cup stewed rhubarb, and 
% cup boiling water. Bake in an under crust, and when done 
cover with a meringue made of the egg whites and powdered 
sugar. Return to the oven a few minutes to brown lightly. — 
[Mrs. J. H. P., O. 

Quick Lemon Pie 

To 1 cup sugar add yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
cup bread crumbs (run through the meat chopper), grated 
rind and Juice of 1 lemon, and a little salt. Bake with an 
under crust and frost with a meringue made of the egg 
whites and powdered sugar. This is enough for one pie. — * 
j:Mrs. F. D. D., N. Y. 



70 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

■J Lemon Baisin Pie ^^A^ » 

To the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, add 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup seeded raisins, a lump butter the size 
of a walnut, and 2 tablesp flour mixed with a very little cold 
water. Boil all together and then bake between two crusts. — 
[Mrs. D. J. C, N. Y. 

Plum Butter Pie 

To 1 cup butter add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup plum butter, and 
yolks of 4 eggs. Beat well and flavor with lemon extract. 
Line well greased pie pans with good rich crust and pour in 
this mixture, and bake. When done spread with a meringue 
made of the whites of 4 eggs and powdered sugar, flavored 
with vanilla. Return to the oven a few minutes until a deli- 
cate brown. The above quantity is enough for two pies. — 
[Mrs. W. T. G., Mo. 

Cranberry Pie 

Line a well greased pie tin with a good rich pie crust, fill 
with prepared cranberry sauce, and cover the top with a lattice 
work of the dough. Cut the strips about an inch wide and 
lay them across the top about an inch apart, first horizontally, 
then vertically, and then tuck in the edges. Be careful to 
have a standing edge of dough all around the pie high enough 
to prevent the juices from running over. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Pineapple Pie 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup powdered sugar, add 2 
beaten egg yolks, and 1 small pineapple, grated fine. .Lastly 
add the beaten whites of the eggs, and turn this mixture into 
a pastry lined pie plate. Bake with an under crust only. — 
[Mrs. J. K., N. y. 

Elderberry Pie I 

To 1 cup ripe or canned elderberries, juice strained off, add 
1 tablesp flour mixed with 1 cup sour cream, and % cup sugar. 
Bake in an under crust and serve while warm. — [Mrs. O. B. 
W., O. 

Elderberry Pie 11 

Line a pie plate with a good rich crust, sprinkle a little flour 
over it, cover with a layer of sliced apples, and fill up with 
elderberries. Allow 1 cup sugar and 2 tablesp vinegar for each 
pie. Bake between two crusts in a slow oven. — [Mrs. A. W. 
T., Mich. 



RHUBARB AND CHERRY PIES 71 



Banana Pie I 

Bake an under crust and when it is done fill up with sliced 
bananas and sprinkle over powdered sugar to taste. Set in a 
hot oven for a few minutes, then cover with whipped cream 
and serve at once. — [Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Banana Pie II 

Line deep pie plate with a rich crust and fill with ripe 
bananas sliced thin, and pour over a custard made of 2 well- 
beaten eggs, 2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp orange extract, and 1% 
cups milk. Bake in an under crust and frost with a meringue 
made of the whites of the eggs and powdered sugar. — [H. L. 
N., Mass. 

Bhnbarb Fie 

Over 3 cups finely chopped rhubarb pour cold water to 
cover. Let stand 10 minutes and then drain. In another 
bowl mix 2 tablesp flour with 1% cups sugar, the yolka of 2 
eggs and 1 heaping tablesp butter. Beat this mixture well, 
then add the chopped rhubarb. Bake in an under crust and 
when done frost the top with a meringue made of 2 egg whites- 
and 6 tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the oven a; few 
minutes to brown lightly. This quantity is sufficient for twa 
pies. — [Miss B. S.. Kan. 

Mince Rhubarb Pie 

To 1 cup rhubarb, measured after chopping fine, add % cup 
each sugar, molasses, water and seeded and chopped raisins, 1 
large soda cracker or a slice of thoroughly dried bread rolled 
fine, 1 egg, 1 scant teasp cinnamon, a little cloves, nutmeg, salt, 
and 1 tablesp melted butter. This is enough for two pies. — « 
[Mrs. C. E. A.. N. H. 

Cherry Pie 

Mix together 1 pt stoned cherries, 4 heaping tablesp sugar 
and 1 heaping tablesp flour. Fill into a pie tin lined with 
paste, sprinkle a little flour over the top, cover with an upper 
crust, and bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Cut in halves 1 cup cranberries and add % cup raisins, 
seeded and also cut in halves, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablesp flour, 1 
teasp vanilla, and 1 cup water. Bake between two crusts.— 
[Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 



f2 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fresh Currant Pie 

To 1 cup ripe currants, mashed fine, add 1 cup sugar, 2 
tablesp cold water mixed with 1 heaping tablesp flour, and 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Bake in an under crust until firm. 
Use the whites of the eggs with 3 tablesp powdered sugar, as a 
meringue. Sometimes I beat up a tablesp of currant jelly with 
the meringue. Spread the meringue on the pie after it has 
cooled off. — [Mrs. H. J. T., Vt. 

Custard Pie I 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add scant V2 cup sugar, a pinch of salt, 
and 1 teasp flour. Beat all well together and then stir in milk 
enough to fill a pie tin, lined with a good rich crust. Grate a 
little nutmeg over the pie, if liked. This is fine — the flour 
seems to add to the richness of the custard and because of its 
use less eggs are required. — [Mrs. F. H. M., N. T. 

Custard Pie II 

To the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2 eggs add 2 cupa 
rich creamy milk, % cup sugar, % teasp salt and any preferred 
flavoring. Pour this into a pie tin lined with a good crust 
and bake. When done frost with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the 
' oven a few minutes to brown lightly. — [Mrs. L. G., Cal. 

Apple Pie 

To 1 cup pastry flour sifted with small % teasp cream tartar 
end half as much eoda, add 1 large tablesp shortening, and mix 
with rich milk to the proper consistency for rolling. Line a 
well greased pie tin with this dough and fill up with part apples 
cut in small pieces, 3 or 4 tablesp sugar, and a little butter 
and nutmeg. Cover with an upper crust; and then pour over 
cold water, allowing the superfluous water to run oft. Put In 
a hot oven, and after it is browned nicely, cover with another 
pie tin and then bake one hour with reduced heat. If these 
directions are carefully followed the result will be a most 
delicious apple pie. — [Mrs. J. L. D.. Mass. 

Apple Tumover 

Butter a pie plate and fill it with sliced apples, then cover 
with a crust made of 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking 
powder and a pinch of salt, 1 tablesp butter, and cold water to 
make the proper consistency to roll. Bake and when done 
turn over on a plate, sweeten to taste, and serve with thick, 
Bweet cream. — [Mrs. F. B. S.. N. T. 




DELICIOUS PIES IN PREPARATION. 




A BUSY MORNING IN THE KITCHEN. 



CUSTARD AND CHOCOLATE PIES 73 



Apple Custai-d Pie 

Slice thin 3 large sour apples and put a layer of these in a 
pie plate lined with a rich crust, sprinkle with sugar, then put 
on another layer of apples, more sugar, and so on until the dish 
is full. Grate over it a little nutmeg, add 1 tablesp butter in 
little bits distributed over the surface. 3 tablesp rich, sweet 
cream, and 3 tablesp water. Bake in an under crust, — [Mrs. 
M. H., Mo. 

Date Pie 

Stone 1 large cup dates and cook until soft with just 
enough hot water to cover, then add 2 tablesp sugar, 1 cup 
rich milk, small bit of butter, 1 beaten egg and 1 tablesp iiour. 
Bake In an under crust and when done spread the top with a 
meringue made of the white of an egg and powdered sugar, 
and return to the oven a few minutes to slightly brown. — [B. 
I.. Me. 

Cocoauut Pie 

To 1 pt scalded milk add % cup sugar, the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, and 1 level tablesp corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk. Bring to a boil, stirring to prevent the mixture from 
getting lumpy, then add 1 cup grated or shredded cocoanut, 
which has been soaked in milk over night. Bake in an under 
crust only. When done spread with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the 
oven a few minutes to brown lightly. This quantity is sufficient 
for two pies. — [Miss E. K., Ind. 

Cream Pie 

Put 2 cups sweet milk In a double boiler, add Vz cup sugar, 4 
tablesp flour wet with a little cold milk, the beaten yolk of 1 
egg, and cook until thick; then remove from fire and stir In 
butter the size of a walnut. When cool flavor with vanilla, or 
if preferred, cook some grated orange peel with the cream. 
Line a pie plate with rich pie crust, rub the inside well with 
flour, fill with the above mixture and bake. When done and 
cooled, frost with a meringue made of the egg whites beaten 
stiff and 3 tablesp powdered sugar, and return to- the oven a 
few minutes to brown. — [Mrs. E. McC, N. T. 

Chocolate Pie 

Put 1 pt milk over the fire In a double boiler.- In a bowl 
beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add % cup sugar and 1 tablesp melted 
butter. Dissolve 1 tablesp corn starch in a little cold milk 
and add to the above mixture with 3 tablesp chocolate melted 



74 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

In a saucer over the steaming tea-kettle. Stir this mixture 
Into the boiling milk and cook until thick, stirring vigorously- 
all the time. Flavor with vanilla. Pour this filling into a 
baked pie crust, make a meringue of the egg whites and 3 
tablesp powdered sugar and spread over the pie while the 
filling is still warm. Return to the oven a few minutes and 
brown lightly. — [Mrs. A. I., la. 

Bnttermilk Fie 

To 2 cups sugar add 2 tablesp flour, yolks of 5 eggs, white of 
i egg, 1 tablesp butter, and after this has been thoroughly 
mixed, add 3 cups buttermilk, and 1 tablesp lemon extract. 
Bake in an under crust and when done spread with a meringue 
made of the 4 remaining egg whites and 6 tablesp powdered 
sugar. Flavor with lemon extract. Return to the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. This makes a good mock lemon 
pie. — [Mrs. G. W. B., Mont. 

Dutch Pie 

Pare and cut in Quarters sour apples that cook easily, and 
dispose these Quarters in circles on a pie tin lined with a not 
too rich crust. Allow a large enough edge for the pie crust 
and crimp it with your fingers or a fork. Crowd in all the 
apples you can without allowing them to lay one on top of the 
other, then pour cold water over them to about half fill the 
tin. Next sprinkle over the apples sugar enough to sweeten to 
taste, and 'also a little cinnamon or nutmeg, if liked. Bake 
slowly. This pie is improved by dotting pieces of butter over 
the apples. — [Mrs. E. C. S., Mo. 

Boiled Cider Pie 

To 2 cups cold water add 1 % cups sugar, and % cup thick, 
boiled cider. Put this mixture over the fire and let it come 
to a boil, then add 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs and 3 tablesp flour 
wet with a little cold water. Cook and stir until free 
from lumps. Pour into baked under crusts, and frost with 
meringue made from the egg whites and powdered sugar. This 
Is sufficient for two pies. — [Mrs. F. D. D., N. T. 

Squash Pie 

Pie made of good ripe squash can be just as delicious as 
pumpkin pie, and even better, to my mind. Peel the squash, 
scrape out pulp and seeds, cut in two-inch pieces, and stew 
Bntil tender in water to nearly cover, then pour in a colander 
and let all the water drain off. Mash thoroughly and to 3 qts 
Bquash, add 1 qt rich sweet milk, 6 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp 
corn starch wet with a little cold milk, 3 cups sugar (it should 



PUMPKIN AND SWEET POTATO PIES 75 

tagte guite sweet before baking ) , ^ a grated nutmeg, 2 teasp 
ginger, and 1 teasp cinnamon. Fill this mixture into deep plates 
lined with a good, rich crust. Shake some cinnamon over the 
filling and bake in a good, steady oven until the center is firm 
and the crust nicely browned. — [R. A. McD., S. D. 

Green Pumpkin Pie 

Choose a green pumpkin just showing first yellow streaks; 
cook until tender, rub through a colander, and to each pint 
pumpkin pulp add % cup sugar, 1 tablesp butter, 1 tablesp 
flour, 3 tablesp vinegar, 1 teasp cinnamon and a little allspice, 
and 1 beaten egg. Bake between two crusts. This tastes very 
much like green apple pie. — [Mrs. J. T. C, Minn. 

Pumpkin Pie 

I can highly recommend this recipe. Pare, remove pulp, cut 
in small pieces, and cook pumpkin 5 or 6 hours, then strain 
carefully through a colander and for 4 cups strained pumpkin 
allow 4 cups rich milk, 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 heaping cup brown 
sugar, 1 teasp salt, % a grated nutmeg, 2 teasp ginger and % 
teasp mace. The milk should be heated and added gradually 
to the seasoned pumpkin, stirring constantly, and lastly add 
the eggs well-beaten. Turn into deep pi© plates lined with 
rich pastry. Be sure to have the pumpkin mixture hot. Bake 
to a rich brown; it will take about one hour. — [R. M., Mich. 

Green Tomato Pie 

Line a pie dish with rich pastry. Slice into it enough green 
tomatoes, very thin, to fill it, sprinkle with a little cinnamon 
and cloves, 1 tablesp molasses, 1 tablesp sugar (or more), and 
a few drops of lemon .iuice or vinegar. Bake between two 
crusts. — [Mrs. C. E. G.. Ariz. 

Sweet Potato Pie 

Wash and boll 3 good sized sweet potatoes until tender, then 
peel and rub through a colander, add the beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, with 1 pt sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, % cup melted butter, 
and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake in an under crust, and 
when done cover with a meringue made of the whites of 3 eggs 
and powdered sugar. Return to the oven for a few minutes to 
brown lightly. I also make pumpkin pie by this recipe, by sub- 
stituting the same quantity of pumpkin for sweet potatoes. — 
[Mrs. Z. T. T., N. C. 

Carrot Pie 

Wash and peel 2 or 3 good sized carrots, stew until tender, 
pour water off, mash fine with potato masher, and to 1 cup 



76 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



mashed carrots add 1 tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, 1 level teasp 
mixed spices, % pt milk and salt to taste. Bake with an 
under crust only. — [Mrs. B. L. G., Ore. 

Butternut Pie 

To % cup milk add ^^ cup cream, scant % cup sugar, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, and 1 cup butternut meats, chopped fine. Bake 
between two crusts. When eggs are scarce use 1 egg and 1 
teasp flour. — [Mrs. J. C. H., Vt. 

Cottage Cheese Pie 

To 1 cup cottage cheese add 1 cup sweet cream, 1 beaten egg, 
3 tablesp sugar, mixed with 1 tablesp flour, a pinch of salt, and 
cinnamon to taste. Bake in an under crust. The cottage 
cheese is made by placing some clabber milk over the Are and 
letting it warm through and then pouring it in a cheese cloth 
bag, and hanging it up. When the whey has dropped out, mix 
the cheese smooth with a little sweet cream and salt it to 
taste. — [Mrs. E. C, Mo. 

Bice Pie 

Mix together 1 cup sweet milk, 2 beaten egg yolks, % cup 
sugar, % cup boiled rice, and a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut. Beat thoroughly, put in a double boiler and cook 
until the egg is done. Remove from fire, flavor to taste, and 
pour the mixture into a baked pie shell, and cover with a 
meringue made with the whites of the eggs and a little pow- 
dered sugar. Put in the oven a few minutes to brown lightly. 
When cold drop small lumps of jelly around on the top. — [M. 
F. P., N. Y. 

Fried Pies 

These are very nice and when fried just right, so as not to 
soak fat, are every bit as good as baked pies. Roll some 
biscuit dough quite thin, cut in small pieces of any desired size 
or shape, put on each piece a small spoonful of hot mince meat, 
fold the crust over and pinch the edges together securely all 
around so it will not open anywhere while frying, and fry 
these small individual mince pies in hot lard until a delicate 
brown, same as doughnuts. If you have never tasted any like 
these you have a real treat in "store. — [I. A. S., Me. 

Pig Pie 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 cup sugar, the grated rind of 1 
lemon, % lb figs, cut fine, 2 cups water, 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp 
flour, and a little salt. This is enough for two pies. — [Mrs. 

"W. li. J.. Vt. 



PRUNE AND PEACH PIES 77 



Pnme Pie 

To 1 cup stewed, stoned and chopped prunes, add 3 tablesp 
of the liquid they were stewed in, % cup sugar, a little lemon 
juice and 1 teasp orange extract. Bake between two crusts. — 
[L. v.. 111. 

Raspberry Pie 

Cook together 1 cup raspberries, 1 cup currants, 1 scant cup 
sugar, 1 tablesp flour, and yolks of 2 eggs. Pour this filling into 
a baked under crust, cover with the beaten whites of the eggs 
and 2 tablesp powdered sugar, and place in the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. — [Miss I. A., N. Y. 

Canned Peach Fie 

Line a deep pie plate with rich crust and bake. Then fill 
with canned peaches cut in quarters, sprinkle over it 1 cup 
sugar and a little of the peach juice. Beat 1 or 2 eggs, yolks 
and whites separately, adding a little powdered sugar to the 
whites and then stir the whites and yolks together and pour this 
over the fruit in the pie shell. Set in the oven a few minutes to 
brown lightly. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Bvaporated Peach Pie 

Soak over night 1 lb evaporated or dried peaches, wash thor- 
oughly, drain, and add just enough fresh water to cook them 
without making too much juice. When done strain through 
a sieve, add sugar and salt to taste and 4 crackers, or 3 or 4 
slices of dried bread, rolled fine. Bake between two crusts. — 
[Mrs. E. M., N. Y. 

Apricot Custard Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with custard. Put in a layer of juicy 
stewed apricots, and bake quickly. Meanwhile put 1^ cups 
rich milk on to heat in a double boiler. Moisten 1 tablesp 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir into the hot milk. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a pinch of salt and V2 cup sugar, 
and add to the hot mixture and cook another minute or two. 
Then remove from the fire and flavor with % teasp vanilla and 
pour the custard over the fruit in the pie. Make a meringue 
of the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff with 1 tablesp powdered 
sugar, spread over the pie and return to the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. Serve cold. — [L. H. C, Fla. 



When making custard pie use the milk hot, and the custard 
will turn out much more solid. — [Mrs. L. H., Pa. 



78 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fruit Shortcakes 
Shortcake I 

To 1 heaping tablesp brown sugar add 1 heaping tablesp 
thick, sour cream, 1 small cup sweet milk in which dissolve a 
pinch of soda, salt, and 2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour 
enough to make a batter as for layer cake. Bake in three 
layers. When done, spread each layer with sweetened fruit, and 
pile some of the fruit on top. — [Miss M. A., Mich. 

Shortcake II 

Beat 1 egg and % cup sugar well together, add 1 cup thick, 
sour cream, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 3 tablesp hot water, 
salt, and flour enough to make a stiff dough that will drop 
from the spoon. Bake about % hour in a quick oven. When 
done, remove from tin, dip a sharp knife in hot water, and cut 
open the cake. Any kind of fruit may be used as filling. To be 
eaten with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. J. O. W., N. Y. 

Buckwheat Shortcake 

To 3 cups buttermilk add 1 teasp soda and buckwheat flour 
to make a dough a little thicker than for griddle cakes. Spread 
in greased pans about 1 inch thick. This is a very fine and 
wholesome shortcake, without shortening. Do not use any 
eggs or shortening. — [Mrs. J. S., Pa. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

Make a shortcake of rich biscuit dough and when done, split 
open, butter each piece, and spread with sweetened rhubarb, 
which has been stewed in a double boiler without a bit of water 
being added. Garnish with whipped cream and serve warm. If 
no double boiler is at hand, one may be improvised by setting a 
granite covered basin inside of another larger dish, which has 
been partially filled with boiling water. — [Mrs. N. M. P., N. H. 

Peach Shortcake 

To the beaten yolks of 2 eggs add % cup milk, 1 tablesp 
melted butter and 1 cup pastry flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- 
ing powder. Beat well and then fold in the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Pour into a shallow greased pan, having the batter 
about 1 inch thick, and cover the top with peeled and sliced 
peaches, over which sprinkle % cup sugar. Bake until the 
fruit is tender, and serve with cream. — [Mrs. A. C. McP. 



STRAWBERRY AND HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKES T9 



Strairberry Shortcake I 

To 1 qt wheat flour sifted with 3 teasp baking powder, add 
2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, 2 tablesp lard, 2 tablesp butter, 
melted, 1 pt sweet milk, and 2 eggs well beaten. Roll and 
bake in square tins. When done, split the cake open and fill 
with strawberries prepared as follows: Crush berries lightly 
and mix with sugar to taste and thick sweet cream. This 
same recipe is nice for any kind of fruit. — [Miss M. E. K., 
N. Y. 

Strawberry Shortcake n 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll about 1 inch thick, bake, 
and when done split open, butter each piece generously, and 
between them put strawberries lightly crushed and well sweet- 
ened. Serve warm with cream. — [M. D. M., Kan. 

Blueberry Shortcake 

Bake a shortcake from a rich biscuit dough and when done 
split open and fill with the following: To 1 qt blueberries 
add Vz cup water, 1 cup sugar and 1 tablesp cornstarch. Boil 
about 10 minutes. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Hnckleberry Shortcake 

Bake any preferred shortcake and while it is baking stew 2 
qts fresh huckleberries and sweeten to taste. When the cake 
is done, split open and spread each piece with butter, place on 
a platter and between each layer put plenty of the stewed 
berries, also some on top. Serve with sauce made as follows: 
Mix thoroughly 1 cup sugar with 2 tablesp flour, pour over 
this some boiling water and cook until of the right con- 
sistency, stirring well. Then add 1 tablesp butter, a pinch o£ 
salt and flavor with lemon or vanilla extract. — [Mrs. A. C, 
Mass. 

Biscnit:: with Berries 

Take cold biscuits (one for each person to be served), 
split open, spread each half liberally with butter and pl»ce 
in the oven to get hot. To 1 qt strawberries add 1 cup sugar 
and mash to a pulp. Put half hot biscuit on a plate, spread 
with mashed and sweetened berries, then put the other balf 
of the biscuit on top and cover with more berries. To be 
served warm or cold with sweet cream. Raspberries or bla^< 
berries can be used the same way, either fresh or canned.— « 
[Mrs. M. M. B.. Mo. 



80 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Sauce tor Shortcake 

Cream together 1 cup butter and 1 lb powdered sugar. 
Pick, wash, and drain carefully 1 qt ripe strawberries and add 
these to the butter and sugar cream, crushing about three 
quarters of the berries. Have three layers of shortcake ready, 
spread the sauce between each layer and decorate the top 
with some whole berries. This should be prepared about 
half hour before serving. — [Mrs. C. von W., N. J. 

Strawberry Gobbler 

Sift 1 qt flour with 2 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt. Cut % cup butter (or butter and lard mixed) into the 
flour and add sweet milk enough to make a dough that can 
be handled. Roll out a third of the dough, large enough to 
cover the baking pan you intend to use, and bake at once 
in a separate tin. This is to be used as a middle crust. 
Meanwhile roll out the rest of the dough to line a deep bak- 
ing pan, half fill with strawberries, sprinkle liberally with 
sugar, put on the baked middle crust and then finish filling 
the pan with berries, sprinkle with sugar, and cover the top 
with a crust, first cutting a number of air holes in it. Bake, 
and serve warm with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. B. B., la. 

Peach or Berry Gobbler 

Half fill an enameled pan, well buttered, with either berries 
or peaches cut fine, sprinkle with a liberal amount of sugar 
and dot generously with butter, lastly sprinkling with some 
flour. Cover the top with a layer of shortcake dough in 
which cut a few air holes. Bake in a moderatel; hot oven. 
>— [Mrs. W. W. P., Okla. 

Cranberry Monnd 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out % inch thick, cut into 
four different sized circles, ranging from two to six inches. 
Cover each circle with a layer of finely chopped cranberries and 
a thick sprinkling of sugar, then place the larger circle on a 
well buttered plate, cover with the next smallest circle, and so 
on, the smallest circle coming on top. Set in a steamer and 
steam % hour. Serve with cream and sugar, or It preferred, 
% hot, sweet sauce. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Cherry Bolls 

Roll out a rich biscuit dough about 1 inch thick, cover 
with ripe, pitted cherries (first draining oft the juice), sprinkle 
Olentlfully with sugar, fold one side of the cake over the 



FRUIT ROLLS AND CHEESE PATTIES 81 



other, to form a long narrow roll, pinch the edges, and then 
■with a sharp knife cut ofl sections the size you wish to serve 
to each person. Lay these pieces in a bread pan, well but- 
tered, with the cut side up, and after all the pieces have been 
disposed of, drop lumps of butter over all and sprinkle with 
1 cup sugar and a very little flour. Then add the cherry 
juice and enough water to make a sufficient quantity of sauce. 
Bake until the crust is done. This is delicious. — [Mrs. W. 
T. G., Mo. 

Strawberry Rolls 

Roll out a rich biscuit dough about % Inch thick, then 
spread with lightly crushed berries and sprinkle liberally 
with sugar. Roll up tight and pinch the ends closely together, 
so that no juice can escape. Place in a steamer and steam 
steadily for one hour. Cut in slices and serve with any pre- 
ferred sweet sauce. — [Mrs. M. P., N. H. 

Rhubarb Rolls 

Mix up a rich, short biscuit dough and roll out about Vz 
Inch thick, cover with a layer of finely cut raw rhubarb, 
sprinkle thickly with sugar, roll up, put it in a buttered tin 
and steam 40 minutes. Then put in a hot oven just long 
enough to dry off. Serve warm with a hard sauce. — [Mrs. N. 
P., N. H. 

Oheese Straws 

To 4 tablesp grated cheese add 2 tablesp butter, 1 cup flour, a 
pinch salt, and cayenne pepper, and mix with a little cold water 
to the proper consistency. Roll about % inch th'.ck, cat in 
strips % inch wide and 3 inches long, and bake in a not too 
hot oven. — [Miss N. P., S. 0. 

Cheese Patties 

Roll out in a sheet about % inch thick some ordinary pia 
€augh and cut in triangular pieces. In the center of each 
place a spoonful grated cheese, sprinkled with a little pepper, 
lap one end of the dough over on the other, press the edges 
together with a fork and bake. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Cocoanat Patties 

Boil together about 8 or 10 minutes I cup sugar and % pt 
boiling water, then add % cup grated cocoanut, and boil about 
8 minutes more, after which remove from the flre and add 2 
wen-beaten eggs. Line little patty pans with ordinary pie 
cmst, put a tablesp of the above mixture In each, and 
bab» in a hot oven. — [Mrs. M. W., Me. 



82 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Macaroon Patties 

Pound and sift 6 almond macaroons^ add 1 tablesp grated 
chocolate and 1 pt hot milk. Let this stand about 10 minutes, 
then add yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 tablesp sugar, and 1 
teasp vanilla. Line little patty pans -with pie paste, fill with 
the above mixture and bake in a quick oven for about 20 
minutes. — [B. K., Mass. 

Raspberry Tarts 

Roll out some pie or puff paste about % inch thick, cut out 
in small circles, about the size of an overturned coftee cup, and 
in one half of these circles make three or four small perfora- 
tions with a thimble. Put the perforated circles on the plain 
circles and bake. When partly cooled, fill the perforations 
with raspberry jam. — [E. B., Mass. 

Rhubarb Tarts 

Bake pie paste in gem pans until it will loosen easily but 
is not thoroughly done, fill tart shells with thickly stewed and 
sweetened rhubarb and cover each with a spoonful of a mix- 
ture made by beating together 1 egg yolk, % cup sweet milk 
and 2 tablesp sugar. Then place strips of pie paste cross- 
ways on each tart and bake. — [Mrs. S. 0. P., Mass. 

Banberry Tarts 

Cut into small squares a rich pie crust dough and between 
each two of these squares place a little of the following mix- 
ture. Mix thoroughly together 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, 1 cup currants, a little candied citron, the grated rind 
of 1 orange and 2 lemons, 1 cup sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs, 
beaten light. Bake these tarts until a delicate brown. — [Mrs. 
M. W., O. 



Red or black raspherries and gooseberries together make » 
fine pie. — [E. L. McG., Mich. 

A little grated lemon peel added to rhubarb pie is an 
improvement. — [Mrs. C. E. B., Neb. 

To secure a nice looking brown pie I sponge the upper crust 
with a little cream just before setting the pie in the oven. — [B. 
E., Vt. 

i When making custard pie I have found that If I add a teasp 
flour to the custard it will not whey so quickly. — [Mrs. L. M., 
D.. Mich. 



PIE AND PASTRY HINTS 83 



The next time you make an apple pie try sprinkling on the 
apples a very little of several different kinds of spices. The 
result is delightful.— [E. E., Vt. ua ui Biiices. ine 

For moistening mince meat there is nothing quite so good 
as the seasoned vinegar from sweet pickles, especially from 
apples, pears and peaches. — [Mrs. G. S., Neb. 

More wholesome than if made with lard or butter is the fol- 
lowing pie crust: Mix 1 cup thick, sweet cream into 2 cups 
flour sifted with 1 teasp salt. — [Mrs. C. E. B., Neb. 

When a pie shows a tendency to boil over, wet a clean strip 
of white muslin and stretch this tightly around the pie, press- 
ing down firmly onto the crust. — [Mrs. M. W. H., Mich. 

For custard, berry, or any juicy pies, I always sponge the 
under crust with the white of an egg before putting In the 
filling. This will prevent the crust from getting soggy. — [B. 
B., Vt. 

Try rhubarb instead of apples for mince pies. It is very 
much to be preferred. Do not peel the stalks — ^just wash and 
chop fine — and you will be pleased with results. — [Mrs. N. P. 
A., Me. 

Peel and cut up fine 4 oranges and 4 bananas, mix them 
together and add 1 cup sugar and mash well. Put this mixture 
between layers of shortcake, pile some on top, and serve 
with cream. — [R. S. Y., Kan. 

To prevent apple or berry pies from discharging their 
delicious juices upon the floor of the oven, insert in a slit in 
the upper crust (when ready to bake) a funnel made from a 
small square of white paper. — [F. & H. 

This is a good way to use up dry scraps of cheese, provided 
they have not become moldy: Put a layer of bits of cheese 
in a well buttered tin and cover with a soft shortcake batter. 
Bake in a quick oven. — [A. H. B., Mich. 

One of the secrets of good pie crust, cookies, etc., is to mix 
largely or entirely with a baking spoon or knife, instead of the 
heated hand. For pie crust see to it that the flour, shorten- 
ing, and water are <Jold. — [Mrs. S. D. F., O. 

In preparing pumpkin for pies it saves time to simply cut the 
pumpkin in quarters and bake it in the oven. When done 
scoop the pumpkin out of the shell with a spoon and mix with 
the other ingredients in the usual way. — [Mrs. E. L. P., O. 



84 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

It is a hobby of mine tliat pie sliould be baked well, and long 
— just how long depends entirely upon the filling — for an apple 
pie, one hour in a moderate oven is not a minute too long, 
while for a berry pie, 20 to 30 minutes is about right. — [E. E., 
Vt. 

To keep juicy pie fillings from running out while baking, cut 
the upper pie crust about one-quarter inch larger than the 
tin, and tuck this edge under the edge of the lower crust. Be 
sure to prick or cut slits in the top crust for air holes. — [Mrs. 
M. M., Wis. 

To prevent the under crust from becoming soggy as it will 
when baked with juicy fillings, mix one-half the sugar you 
intend to use in the filling with an equal amount of flour, and 
sprinkle this mixture on the under crust before you put in the 
fruit. — [Mrs. M. M., Wis. 

> I believe there is at least as much in proper baking as in 
proper making. My experience is that a very hot oven makes 
a tough crust, as is also the case if upon being taken from the 
oven, the pie is immediately set in a cold place. It is better to 
let it cool slowly. — [E. E., Vt. 

When you want a baked pie shell, invert the pie pan, grease 
the bottom (which of course must be very clean), and put the 
crust over that and bake. In this way you will have no trouble 
in having perfect shells, without blisters. Prick the dough 
lightly with a fork before putting in the oven. — [J. M. B., 111. 

The leaves from fruit trees steeped in water making a strong 
tea, and used instead of water in cooking other kinds of fruit 
will give it the taste of the fruit of the leaves. For example, 
peach leaves tea will give rhubarb the taste of peaches, and is 
a nice change in making pies. In the red or wineplant, straw- 
berry leaves may be used. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 

When fresh fruit is not obtainable I use well soaked and 
cooked dried apples in my mince meat. A whole orange chopped 
fine also gives a fine flavor to the mince meat. When fresh beef 
is not obtainable (if one can be sure of getting a good quality), 
canned roast beef may be substituted for fresh beef in mince 
meat, or one can use the lean meat from a pig's head, boiled. — 
[L. E. M., Ala. 



nou^hnuts. Griddle Gakes and Fritteps 



:3=> HERE are all kinds of doughnuts— gpod, 
bad, and indifferent. When they are not as 
good as they should be, it rests with the 
cook, who has probably failed to inform 
herself. on all the fine points of doughnut 
manufacture. The following hints may 
be found useful in following the various reci- 
pes presented herewith. The dough should be as soft as 
possible, and not handled any more than is absolutely neces- 
sary. If too much baking powder is used the doughnuts 
will soak up fat, and if the dough is too stiff the fried cakes 
will be tough. Since they are fried in grease it is not 
advisable to use much shortening in the doughnuts. Equal 
parts of clarified lard and suet are the best to fry them 
in. The kettle should not be too small and there should 
be plenty of the fat, which should be hot. To keep the fat 
clear and to keep it from over-heating, some cooks drop in 
a piece of raw potato. It is well to test with a sample 
doughnut, to see if the dough is of the right consistency 
and the fat at the proper degree of heat. When the 
doughnut is dropped into the fat it should come to the top 
almost immediately, and when it is brown on one side it 
should be turned to brown on the other side. When the 
doughnuts are lifted from the fat they should be laid out 
on bro'wn paper, to absorb the superfluous fat. It is best 
not to fry more than five or six doughnuts at a time, as drop- 
ping in too many fresh doughnuts would cool the fat 
too rapidly. A little practice and careful following of 
directions should result in a product that is both whole- 
some and palatable. 

Baised Doughnuts I 

Scald 2 cups sweet milk, and when partly cool add 2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup lard, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup yeast, a little 
grated nutmeg and flour to mix In a loaf. Let rise over night,. 

85 



86 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and in the morning roll out 1 inch thick. Cut with cookie or 
biscuit cutter. Let stand until light, and then fry in hot fat. 
— [Mrs. P. F. B., O. 

Baised Doughnuts n 

Boil and mash 2 medium sized potatoes, stir them into 1 pt 
boiling milk, add a little salt, and % cup sugar. Set aside 
until lukewarm, then add 2 well-beaten eggs, and ^ yeast cake 
dissolved in a little wrarm water. Let this rise until light, then 
add % cup butter, and flour to mould. Let rise once more in a 
warm place (takes about 4 hours), and then roll and cut about 
% inch thick. Let them rise again, and fry in hot lard. When 
cooled, roll in powdered sugar. — [M. B., 111. 

Raised Doughnuts ni 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add 1 cup sugar, % cup melted 
lard, 1 well-beaten egg, 1 teasp cinnamon, allspice and cloves 
mixed, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in 3 tablesp warm water. 
Mix stiff with flour, and let rise one hour, then roll and cut 
into cakes, and let these rise about 20 minutes. Fry in hot 
lard. It takes longer to fry raised doughnuts than those made 
with baking powder. — [Mrs. S. N., Wash. 

Farmer's Doughnuts I 

Pour 1 pt boiling hot sweet milk over 1 lb sifted flour, stir- 
ring vigorously, then break In 7 eggs, one at a time, cut off lit- 
tle pieces with a tablespoon and drop into hot lard. If care- 
fully cut they will be nearly round. Turn until they are evenly 
brown. When cool roll in powdered sugar, or eat with molas- 
ses. — [E. R. H., Pa. 

Farmer's Doughnuts n 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 well-beaten egg, and 1 cup buttermilk 
or sour milk, to which add 2 teasp thick sour cream, 1 level 
teasp soda, and salt and nutmeg to taste. Mix with flour to 
a soft dough. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Molasses Doughnuts (No*!Eggs) 

To % cup molasses add % cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk or but- 
termilk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 1 tablesp melted lard, 
a little salt and % teasp ginger, with flour enough to make a 
dough of the proper consistency. — [Mrs. L. M. A., Me. 



DOUGHNUTS AND FRIED CAKES 8T 

Cocoa Doughnuts 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 tablesp butter, 1 well-beaten egg, a lit- 
tle salt, 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve % teasp soda, 1, 2 or 
3 tablesp powdered cocoa, and flour enough to make a soft 
dough. The amount of cocoa should be regulated to taste. — 

[Mrs. N. F., Mass. 

Potato Fried Cakes I 

To 6 boiled potatoes, each about the size of an egg, mashed 
while hot, add 2 cups sugar, 1 tablesp butter, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, 1 cup milk, and about 
6 cups flour sifted with 6 teasp baking powder. — [Mrs. M. W. 
H., Mich. 

Potato Fried Cakes II 

To 1 cup milk add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup mashed potatoes, % 
cup thick sweet cream, yolks of 3 eggs, a pinch of salt, and 3 
teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a dough 
of the proper consistency. Add the beaten whites of the eggs 
Just before adding the flour. Mix with the hands until smooth 
and velvety, roll out about % Inch thick and 6 inches wide, 
then with a sharp knife begin at the end and cut strips % inch 
wide. Bring the ends of each strip together and pinch. In this 
way the last cake will be as good as the first, for no more flour 
will have to be kneaded in. Twist the doughnuts and fry them 
in deep hot fat until a delicate brown, and drain on brown 
paper. When made with potatoes, doughnuts- will keep moist 
for a week or more. — [Mrs. L. M. D., Mich. 

Fried Cakes (No Eggs) 

Dissolve 1 level teasp soda in 1 cup sour milk, add 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tablesp shortening, a little salt and cinnamon or nut- 
meg and flour enough to make a soft dough that will roll out 
easily. — [Miss A. H. B., Mich. 

Old-Fashioned Twisters 

To 1 cup buttermilk add 1 cup sugar, 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs, 1 level teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 4 
tablesp melted lard, nutmeg to taste, and flour to make a dough 
which can be rolled thin. Cut in inch wide strips, twist and 
pinch the ends together, and fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. J. N. J., 
Kan. 

Puff Balls 

Beat 3 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar, 1 pt milk, some salt and 
nutmeg, and sufScient flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder 



88 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

to make a dough in which a spoon can stand up. Drop by 
small spoonsful into hot fat. Dip the spoon into the hot fat 
every time. — [H. M. W., Mass. 

Potato Paffs 

To % cup cold mashed potatoes add % cup rich milk, 1 well- 
heaten egg, and 1 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Roll about % inch thick, cut in strips 
or any desired shape, and fry in hot fat. These are good served 
warm with maple syrup, jelly or sugar. — [Mrs. R. J. S., Neb. 

Conuneal Trifles 

To 1 cup cornmeal add 1 cup flour, V2 teasp salt, 2 teasp 
baking powder, and water enough to make a very stiff batter. 
Drop by spoonsful into deep, hot fat, and serve warm with 
syrup. — [Mrs. D. L. P., Cuba. 

Economical Pancakes 

Try this recipe when you run short of bread for breakfast, 
and the price of eggs is soaring lip. To 1 qt white flour add 1 
teasp salt, and 2% cups buttermilk in which dissolve 1 teasp 
soda. Pour in the buttermilk a little at a time, and beat 
smooth and free from lumps. Fry with plenty of nice fresh 
lard and tilt the frying pan or griddle so the lard can run 
around the cakes while they are frying, and form a nice crisp 
edge on them. Drop about 2 tablesp of the batter in the pan 
for each cake. These are fine served with butter and syrup or 
honey. — [Mrs. L. S., Ind. 

Bread Pancakes 

Soak 2 cups stale bread over night in 1 cup hot milk. Next 
morning put this through a sieve to mash all lumps, then add 1 
heaping teasp sugar, 1 level teasp salt, 2 tablesp melted butter, 
2 well-beaten eggs and 1 cup flour. Lastly add 1 cup sour 
milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda. Bake on a hot griddle. 
These are extra fine. — [E. L. McG., Mich. 

Bread Pancakes (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups stale bread soaked until soft add 1 cup sour milk, 
% cup sugar, 1 teasp soda and salt to taste. Then stir in flour 
enough to make a soft batter. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Cornmeal Pancakes 

Sift together 1 pt yellow cornmeal, 1 pt flour, 1 teasp salt, 1 
teasp soda and 2 tablesp sugar, then add enough sour cream or 
good rich buttermilk to make a thin batter. Bake at once on 
hot griddles. — [Mrs. G. M. N., N. T. 



BREAD AND POTATO PANCAKES 89 

Bye Pancakes 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 2 tablesp sugar, 2 tablesp molassee. 
^teasp soda dissolved In % cup sour milk, and equal parts 
flour and rye meal to make a stiff batter. Drop by small spoons- 
ful into deep, hot fat. — [J. M. S., N. H. 

Bnttennilk Pancakes 

To 1 qt buttermilk add 1 teasp soda, a little salt, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, and eitber graham, buckwheat or wheat flour 
enough to make a batter of the proper consistency for pancakes. 
— [Mrs. J. W. H., Mich. 

Whole Wheat Pancakes 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup whole wheat flour, a little 
salt, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in 2 cups buttermilk. Bake 
on hot griddle. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 

Baw Potato Pancakes I 

Pare and grate 6 large potatoes, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 
cups milk, some pepper and salt, 1 tableisp sugar, and 1 cup 
flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Drop this soft batter 
by the spoonsful on a hot, well greased griddle, as for pancakes. 
Serve hot, with butter. If desired sweet potatoes may be used 
in place of the Irish potatoes. — [Mrs. W. K., la. 

Baw Potato Pancakes II 

Pare and grate 6 large potatoes, drain off all the water, add 
to the potatoes 1 scant cup sour milk with % teasp soda and 
1 teasp salt. Then stir in 2 well-beaten eggs and flour enough 
to make a thin batter. The amount of flour varies according 
to the size of potatoes — usually 1 cup is sufScient. Pry like 
any other pancakes in hot fat — equal parts of butter and suet 
or lard, being best. Have the pancakes small, and serve them 
piping hot. — [Mrs. F. H., Mo. 

Boiled Potato Pancakes 

Boil 6 medium sized potatoes in salted water, and when done 
mash them, and set aside to cool, after which add 3 well-beaten 
eggs, 1 qt milk and flour enough to make a thin pancake bat- | 
ter, sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Fry a golden brown on j 
both sides and serve hot. — [Mrs. R. N. P., N. T. 

Potato and Onion Pancakes 

Grate 6 or 8 medium sized potatoes, and 1 medium sized 
onion, then add yolks of 4 eggs, a little salt and 1 heaping 



90 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

tablesp flour. Mix well, and then add the beaten whites of 4 
eggs. HaTe the griddle very hot and bake as batter cakes. 
Serve hot with butter. — [W. H. C, Tex. 

Banana Pancakes 

Peel 5 bananas, cut up fine, add 3 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp 
sugar, 3 tablesp thick sweet cream, %, cup milk and % teasp 
baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a batter of the 
proper consistency. Fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. G. MoM., Cal. 

Tomato Pancakes 

To 2 cups boiled and mashed ripe tomatoes add 1 cup hot 
water, 1 teasp soda and salt and pepper to taste. Then stir in 
flour enough to make a soft batter, and fry on hot and well 
greased griddles. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn 

Baised Bnckwheat Griddlecakes I 

To make the yeast, boil until soft 3 or 4 medium sized pota- 
toes, mash, add 1 pt flour, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, and a 
pinch of ginger. Pour some boiling water over these ingredi- 
ents, stir well, and when cool add 1 cake compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a little warm water, or % cup hop yeast. Set away 
in a warm place to rise. 

For the cakes use 1 qt warm water, % cup sweet milk, salt 
to taste, and buckwheat flour to make a batter of the propel 
consistency. Then add % cup of the yeast prepared as above, 
beat well, and set in a warm place until light. This recipe will 
make delicious cakes, and the yeast will keep sweet 3 or 4 days 
in a cool place. Yeast made as above is also satisfactory for 
bread. — [Miss A. E. H., Pa. 

Baised Buckwheat Griddlecakes n 

Into 1 pt lukewarm water stir % lb buckwheat flour, a pinch 
salt and 2 ozs yeast or 1 cup liquid yeast. Set this over night 
and in the morning add 1 teasp soda, % cup flour and 1 tablesp 
molasses. One or 2 eggs added to this batter will make it hold 
together nicely, but they can safely be omitted. Bake on hot 
griddle. — [M. S., Neb. 



Raw potato pancakes are best when served Immediately after 
removing from frying pan. Do not attempt to fry a large batch 
of these pancakes at once, but send to the table just as soon 
as a panful is fried. When eaten fresh and hot, with cran- 
berry sauce as a side dish, they are most dejicious. but when 
allowed to cool, they become heavy and soggy. — [A. G., Mass. 



RICE AND CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 91 

Griddle Cakes (No Eggs) 

To 1 Qt milk add 1 tablesp lard, and 1 tablesp baking powder 
and some salt mixed with flour to make a rather thin batter. 
Bake on very hot griddle. — [Mrs. G. S., Neb. 

Bice Griddlecakes 

Boil % cup rice until soft, and when cool thin with milk to 
the consistency of batter for buckwheat cakes. Then stir in 1 
well-beaten egg, about a handful flour and salt to taste. These 
will require to bake longer than other griddle cakes, before 
turning. If liked, add a little sugar to the batter. — [Mrs. E. 
W.. N. T. 

Hominy Griddlecakes 

To 1 pt warm boiled hominy add 1 pt milk or water and 1 
pt flour. Lastly beat 2 or 3 eggs and stir into the batter with a 
little salt. Fry like any other griddlecakes. These are deli- 
cious. — [N. P., N. H. 

Commeal Griddlecakes 

Mix 1 pt conimeal with 1 pt wheat flour, add 1 teasp salt, 2 
level teasp cream tartar, 2 well-beaten eggs, and enough milk 
to make a soft batter. Next add 1 tablesp melted butter and 
1 level teasp soda dissolved in 1 tablesp warm water. Fry a 
golden brown on hot griddle. Serve with butter and maple 
syrup. — [Mrs. C. B., Pa. 

Baised Gornmeal Griddlecakes 

Fill a quart measure % full of commeal, then fill up to the 
top with white flour, mix thoroughly, and then pour in 2 cups 
lukewarm milk. Stir well, then add 1 teasp melted butter, 1 
teasp salt, 2 well-beaten eggs, % cup fresh yeast or quarter 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Let 
rise and bake on a hot griddle. — [S. E. W., O. 

Sweet Com Griddlecakes 

To 1 beaten egg add 1 small cup milk, the grains from 6 ears 
sweet corn, 1 teasp sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and flour 
enough to make a batter of the proper consistency, sifted with 
% teasp soda and 1 teasp cream tartar. Fry in deep fat. — 
[Mrs. M. J. S., N. H. 

Green Peas Griddlecakes 

Press 1 pt cooked green peas through a sieve and add 1 cup 
hot milk, 1 teasp sugar, % teasp salt, 1 teasp butter, and when 



«2 FARM AND HOME COOK BO 

cold add 2 -well-beaten eggs, and about % cup flour sifted with 
2 roanding teasp baking powder. Bake on hot griddle.— [W. 
C. B., N. H 

North GaroUna Corn Pone 

Tq 1 qt white commeal add 1 teasp salt and % teasp soda. 
Sti» this up with enough water so that the dough can be rolled 
aroud in the pan from side to side without sticking. This is the 
grea< secret of making corn pones, etc., edible without the use 
of eggs and milk. Have the skillet hot, sprinkle a little corn- 
meal in it, with the hands form small cakes of the dough about 
as large as biscuits, but oblong, leaving the impress of the four 
fingers on the upper side. When nicely brown on one side turn 
and hrown on the other side. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Plain Batter Fritters 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1% cups milk, a pinch of salt, 
and 3 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. Fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. — [Mrs. H. D. 
T., Minn. 

Plain Bread Fritters 

Soak 1% cups stale bread crumbs in 1 cup sweet milk. Let 
this stand a while and then add another cup sweet milk, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, a little salt, and 1 heaping teasp baking powder 
mixed with 1 small cup flour. Drop by tablespoonsful Into a 
pan with hot lard and butter, and fry brown on both sides. — > 
IMvs. M. 3. L., Mich. 

Raised Bread Fritters 

Cut pieces about the size of a small egg from light bread 
dough, and drop into hot lard. The lard must be hot enough 
to brown a slice of raw potato. It is well to keep a few pieces 
potato in the kettle. Fry the fritters a light brown, and serve 
warm with syrup. These will not absorb grease. — [Mrs. W. W. 
P., Okla. 

Fried Corn Fritters 

To 1 can com or % doz ears green com, cut fine, add 3 of 
4 well-beaten eggs, 1 level teasp salt, and flour enough to make 
■a stiff batter that can be easily dropped from the spoon. Drop 
by spoonsful into hot lard, and fry like doughnuts. — [S. F R 
N, J. 



APPLE AND RHUBARB FRITTERS 9S 



Commeal Fritters 

To 2 cups sour milk add 1 teasp soda, % teasp salt, 1 welN 
beaten egg and commeal enough to make a moderately thick 
batter. Drop by tablespoonsful into a hot skillet, well greased 
■with lard. — [Mrs. W. T, F., Mo. 

Sour Milk Fritters 

Dissolve 1 teasp soda in 2 cups sour milk, add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, and lastly the irell-beaten -whites 
of 2 eggs. Fry in hot lard or butter, and serve with syr«p or 
any preferred sauce. — [A. E. H., Wash. 

Oatmeal Fritters 

To 1 cup cooked and cold oatmeal, add 1 well-beaten egg, 2 
or 3 tablesp milk, and just enough flour to bind together. Sea- 
son to taste, and fry in hot lard. Watch them closely, as they 
burn easily. This is a nice way to use left-over oatmeal from 
breakfast by serving it as fritters for supper. — [R. C. R., Pa. 

Apple Fritters 

Heat 1 cup sweet milk, and add slowly to the beaten yolks. 
of 2 eggs, mixed with 1 teasp sugar and a little salt, then add 
2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder, and the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Lastly stir in some sour apples sliced or 
chopped fine, and drop by spoonsful into hot fat. Fry a light 
brown. Serve with cream and sugar or any preferred sauce. 
Grate some nutmeg into the batter if that flavor is liked. 
Peach and pineapple fritters can be made by this same recipe. 
— IMrs. D. A. F., Pa. 

Rhubarb or Green Apple Fritters 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 
1 level teasp soda, and a little salt. Then add flour enough to 
make a not too thick batter. Lastly stir in 1 pt raw sliced 
rhubarb or green cooking apples. Fry in plenty of hot fat, 
and serve hot with syrup. — [B. F., la. 

Mock Oyster Fritters 

To 2 cups sweet corn, chopped fine, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
% cup flour and a little salt and pepper. Fry the size of oysters 
on a hot, buttered griddle. These are very fine. — [Mrs. E. S. 
W.. N. T. 



94 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Oyster Fritters 

Drain all the liquor from 1 qt oysters, and dry them on a 
towel. Make a batter of 1 pt flour sifted with 2 teasp baking 
powder and a little salt, 1 cup milk and 2 well-beaten eggs. 
Have ready plenty hot fat, as for frying doughnuts, and to 
each tablesp batter add an oyster and drop into the fat. 
Turn with a fork and when brown and crisp lift out, drain on 
paper, and arrange on a hot platter. Serve at once. — [M. P.. 
N. H. 

Green Tomato Fritters 

Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt, and let stand % 
hour. Make a batter <5f 1 egg, 1 cup milk and 1 cup flour sifted 
with 1 teasp baking powder and a little salt. Dip each slice of 
tomato in the batter, and fry in hot lard. Serve as a vegetable, 
with meat and gravy. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Potato Fritters 

To 1 cup mashed potatoes add 1 well-beaten egg, % cup 
milk and % teasp baking powder and a little salt sifted with 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Drop by tablespoonsful 
into hot lard, and fry a delicate brown. I sometimes use white 
beans instead of the potatoes. This is a good way to use the 
left-overs. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Parsnip Fritters 

Wash the parsnips thoroughly and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, then drain, plunge into cold water, and rub 
off the skins, which will come oft easily. Mash the parsnips, 
season with salt, pepper and butter to taste, and shape into 
small flat cakes. Roll in flour, and fry a delicate brown. — [Mrs. 
W. K.. la. 

Salmon Fritters 

Remove the skin and bones from 1 can salmon, add 1 cup 
water, salt and pepper to taste, and enough flour sifted with 1 
teasp baking powder to make a batter of the proper consistency. 
Fry in hot lard. These fritters are improved by the addition 
of 1 well-beaten egg, in which case a little less water is used.— 
Mrs. C. D. R., Ark. 

Batter Cakes 

To 4 tablesp commeal add 2 tablesp flour, 1 teasp baking 
powder, % teasp salt, and water to make a medium thick bat- 
ter. Drop by tablespoonsful on hot, well greased skillet. Sarve 
with N O molasses. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 



BATTERS AND BAKING HINTS 95 



Coating Batter 

To 1 cup flour add 1 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp salt and 
milk enough to make a batter just thick enough to coat well 
any article of food requiring it, so it will not drain off. To add 
1 well-beaten egg to this batter is a great improvement. — [S. 
A. B., N. Y. 

Fried Toast 

Dip slices of 2 or 3 day old bread into a liquid mixture of 
eggs and milk, and a little salt and sugar to taste. Fry a 
golden brown on each side. Serve hot with jelly or jam. — [Mrs. 
J. J. W., 111. 



Doughnuts keep best when placed in a stone jar, carefully 
covered. — [A. G., Mass. 

Be careful not to roll doughnuts in sugar while they are hot, 
or you will be giving them a sticky coating. — [M. G., Wash. 

» 

In making doughnuts if % cup water is added to whatever 
other Ingredients are used, they will not soak fat so readily. — • 
[Mrs.,N. P. A., Mass. 

I have found that when frying doughnuts they will use up 
less grease if I add about a tablesp of vinegar to the hot lard. 
— [Mrs. H. E. B., Wash. 

To sugar doughnuts put about half cup powdered sugar in a 
paper bag, place doughnuts, a few at a time, in the bag, and 
shake well. — [Mrs. B. S., Ct. 

I have found that eggs seem to have a tendency to make 
doughnuts dry and hard. Therefore I always make doughnuts 
without eggs. — [Mrs. G. M., N. H. 

I always have the fat hot, and plenty of it. Anything fried 
in a little lard will come out full of grease. Any fat left over 
may be used again if properly strained and clarified with a 
few pieces of raw potato. — [M. B., 111. 

Roll the dough for doughnuts about % inch thick, or less, 
and if you have no doughnut cutter use the top of a small glass 
or baking powder tin to cut the rounds, and a large sized sil- 
ver thimble to cut out the centers from the rounds. Shake 
off any loose flour before dropping into the hot fat. — [A. G., 
Mass. 



96 FAHM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

"When making corn fritters I sometimes thicken them with 
rolled cracker crumbs, instead of flour. — [C. L„ Ind. 

When making cornmeal pancakes I sometimes substitute a 
cup of cooked oatmeal for the flour. — [Mrs. N. C, Miss. 

A delicious apple pancake can be made by following potato 
pancake recipes, and substituting apples for potatoes. — [M. W., 
Wis. 

I use lard and suet, half and half, to fry pancakes, and find 
this csmbination a great saving. Also, the cakes are not so apt 
to.soak up fat. — [Mrs. G. O. F., N. H. 

Drain off the water from boiled potatoes, let it get cool, and 
use it in pancakes, in place of water. The pancakes will be 
much lighter this way. — [Mrs. E. P., N. Y. 

When grating raw potatoes for potato pancakes, the work 
should be done quickly, or the grated potatoes will turn black. 
It is well to sprinkle lightly with flour each potato as it is 
grated. — [A. G., Mass. 

To remove the grain from ears of boiled corn, score each row 
lengthwise with a sharp knife, and then with the back of a sil-< 
Ter knife scrape the kernels from the cob. In this way ISne ker- 
nels will come out clean and shelled. — [Mrs. C. S., Ind. 




Biscaits, Muffins and Dumplings 

EAVY biscuits, made by newly-wed wives, 
have served as capital for the joke-makers 
for many years, but the following recipes 
are all so plain and the directions so easy 
to follow, that with their aid even the inex- 
perienced, amateur home-baker ought to be 
able to turn out creditable results in the line of biscuits, 
mufifins, gerns, dumplings, etc. As will be noted, soft 
doughs, little handling and quick baking are the three 
essentials to success in this department of cookery. It 
goes without saying that only the best obtainable ingredi- 
ents should be used^ as no good results can reasonably be 
expected from inferior qualities of flour, baking powder, 
. spices, etc. There is no lack of variety amonig the follow- 
ing recipes. Try some of them. 

Baking Powder Biscuits I 

^ To 1 qt sifted flour add 3 heaping teasp baking powdei*, 1 

level teasp salt, 1 tablesp each of lard and butter, and milk 

enough to make a soft dough. Mould quicklr, handle as little 

as'possible, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. W. A. M., N. Y. 

Baking Powder Bisctiits n 

To 1 qt sifted flour add 3 teasp baking powder, a little salt, 
1 cup rich, sweet cream, and milk enough to make a dough of 
the proper consistency. — [E. T., Va. 

A Drop Biscuits 

To every pt flour add % teasp salt, 2 teasp baking powder, 
and 1 tablesp melted butter, with enough sweet milk to make 
a stiff batter. Drop the mixture into hot gem pans, well 
greased, and bake in a quick oven. One pt flour will make 8 
oiscuits. — [Mrs. "W. T. F., Mo. 

Soda Biscuits 

To 1 cup buttermilk add % cup cream, in which dissolve 1 
'a> el teasp soda, % teasp salt, and flour enough to roll. Cut, 
ani* bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. J. C. S., N. Y. 

97 



fl8 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cream Tartar Biscnlts 

To 1 qt flour add 1 teasp salt, 1 teasp soda, 2 teasp cream 
ta,rtar, mix -well, and then add 4 tablesp thick, sweet cream, 
and water to make a soft dough. Do not roll, but presb out 
lightly with the hands, cut, and bake 10 minutes in hot oven. 
— IJ. E. P., N. H. 

Sour Milk Biscuits 

Sift 1 qt flour with 1 level teasp salt and 2 heaping teasp 
baking powder. Stir into this 5 tablesp sour cream, in which 
1 level teasp soda has been dissolved, then add sour milk 
enough to make a dough of the proper consistency to roll. Cut 
with a biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. If sweetened 
biscuits are liked add % cup sugar. — [Mrs. J. H. S., N. Y. 

Bran Biscuits 

To 2 cups nice, clean bran add 1 cup wheat flour, 1% cups 
sour milk, % cup melted butter, 3 tablesp molasses and 1 teasp 
soda dissolved in c little warm water, and put in the last thins. 
Bake in gem pans. These are excellent for those troubled with 
constipation. — [Mrs. B. W. A., Cal. 

Egg Biscuits 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup milk, 1% cups sugar, 1 
scant cup lard or butter and 4 teasp baking powder, sifted with 
flour enough to roll. Cut out, sprinkle sugar over each biscuit, 
and place a raisin In the center of each. Bake in a quick oven. 
— [C. B. O., Kan. 

Graham Drop Biscuits 

To 1 pt graham flour add % cup white flour, 1 level teasp 
soda, % teasp salt, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablesp thick, sour 
cream, and enough sour milk or buttermilk to make a stiff haX- 
ter. Mix and beat well, and drop by tablespoonsful on a well 
greased biscuit pan, and bake in a hot oven 20 to 25 minutes, 
or until a light brown. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Breakfast Biscuits 

To % cup sugar add 1 cup cream, % cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, a little salt and nutmeg, and 1 teasp baking powder 
sifted with flour enough to make a dough as soft as can be con- 
veniently handled. Roll, cut, and bake as biscuits. — [A. E. R., 
N. H. 



SWEET POTATO AND LIGHT BISCUITS 99 



Blaeberry Biscuits 

To 1 pt flour add % teasp salt, 3 level teasp baking powder, 
1 level tablesp butter, % cup sugar, and milk enough to moiS' 
ten. Have batter stiff enough to keep it shaped when dropped 
from the spoon. Lastly add 1 cup blueberries, washed, dried 
and dredged with flour. Drop the batter by spoonsful in well 
greased gem pans, and bake 20 minutes. — [M. B., Ill 

Scotch Biscuits 

To 2 cups flour add S level teasp baking powder, 1 tablesp 
sugar, % teasp salt, 3 tablesp butter, 2 well-beaten eggs, % 
cup sweet cream and the grated rind of a lemon. Roll, cut and 
brush the tops with white of egg, and sprinkle with sugar. 
Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. These are fine. — [Mrs. C. P Pai 

Sweet Biscuits 

To 4 cups light bread sponge add 1 cup sugar, i^ cup melted 
blotter, and 2 or 3 beaten eggs. Mix well, then add enough 
flour to make a soft dough. Let rise, and when light knead 
into biscuits, let rise again and when light, bake. — [Mrs. J. B., 
Kan. 

Ginger Biscuits 

To 1 % cups molasses add scant % cup hot water, 1 tablesp 
shortening, 1 teasp soda, ^ teasp ginger, and flour enough to 
thicken to the consistency of cake batter. Bake in a shallow 
pan, and watch carefully as it burns easily. Cut up in large 
pieces while it is still warm. To be eaien with butter, like bis- 
cuits.— [Mrs. E. S. M., N. Y. 

Sweet Potato Biscuits 

Break into halves 3 good sized baked sweet potatoes, then 
take out the centers, and press through a sieve. Add scant 
teasp salt, 1 tablesp butter, 1 pt milk, 1 beaten egg and 2 
rounding teasp baking powder sifted with 1 pt flour. Pour into 
well greased patty pans and bake in a hot oven about 25 min- 
utes. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Light Biscuits 

Scald 1 cup milk, add scant % cup sugar and 2 tablesp but- 
ter. When cool add this to 2 cups light bread sponge, with 
flour enough to mould into a loaf. Let rise until very light, then 
mould into biscuits, and when light again, bake. — [Mrs. W. C. 
T., N. Y. 



100 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Bread Biscuits 

To some light bread dough, enough for a small loaf, add % 
cup lard, 1 scant teasp soda, 2 tablesp sugar and 1 egg. Mix 
thoroughly, add flour as required, mould into biscuits, and let 
rise. Bake in a quick oven. Raisins or currants may be added 
if liked. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 

Raised Biscuits 

Itfesolve % cake dry yeast in a little warm water. While 
this is dissolving beat butter the size of aa egg with 2 tablesp 
sugar and 1 egg. Stir this and the dissolved yeast into 2 cups 
lukewarm milk, add ^^ teasp salt, and flour enough to make a 
dough just stiff enough to handle. Cover, set in a warm place, 
■and let rise over night. Knead down in the morning, let rise 
again, then mould into biscuits, and when light, bake about 35 
minutes. If a half cake .compressed yeast is used, the sponge 
can be started in the morning. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. 

Maryland Biscuits 

To 2 qts flour add 1 teasp salt and 1 cup butter. Work the 
butter well into the flour, and wet with cold water to form a 
dough. Then place on kneading board and beat about 15 min- 
utes with a potato masher, slowly sifting flour on the board 
to keep the dough from sticking. When hard beat at least 15 
minutes longer, then roll out % inch thick, cut with a biscuit 
cutter, prick holes in each biscuit with a fork, and bake imme- 
diately. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Madison Biscuits 

To 2 qts flour add % cup yeast, 3 well-beaten eggs, % cup 
sugar, 2 cups milk, 1 tablesp salt and water enough to make 
a batter stifE enough to hold a spoon upright. Set away in a, 
warm place to rise, then work in a little flour, and cut out into 
biscuits. Let this stand 10 or 15 minutes, and then bake in a 
hot oven. — [Mrs. D. T. K., N. C. 

Mush Biscuits 

Add a little salt to 1 qt boiling water, stir in 1 scant cup 
white cornmeal, and boil 20 minutes. When cooled to luke- 
warm add % cup lard and 1 cup yeast sponge. Knead stiff 
with flour, set away in a crock, and let rise. When light, yrork 
it down and then set away in a cold place, or put it in the ice 
box. This dough is then ready to roll out in small biscuits 
and to bake at any time you want, a few at a time, and they 
are very fine. — [E. E. S., 111. 



SWEET BUNS AND MUFFINS 101 



Squash Biscuit 

To 1 qt winter squash, boiled and sifted, add 1 cup hop 
yeast, or 2 cakes compressed yeast, 1 cup sugar, 3 large tablesp 
butter, 1 teasp soda and a little salt. If squash is very dry it 
will require about % cup sweet milk. Mix all these ingredients 
together with flour enough for a sponge. When light mix in 
some flour the same as for any biscuit dough, but do not make 
the dough too stiff. When light the second time make into bis- 
cuits, let rise again, and then bake. Mix the sponge while the 
squash is warm. — [Mrs. I. B. R., Wis. 

Sweet Buns 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg, % cup sour cream, % cup butter- 
milk or sour milk, in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda, then 
add flour enough to make a smooth batter, stiff enough to keep 
its shape when deposited by tablespoonsful on a buttered tin. 
Bake in a quick oven and watch closely. This is very fine. If 
liked, flavor with caraway seed, for a change. — [N. P., N. H. 

Breakfast Cakes 

Cream 1 cup brown sugar with % cup butter (or butter and 
lard mixed), add 1 well-beaten egg, 1 cup molasses, 2 level 
teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour milk, and 4 cups flour sifted 
with 1 teasp each cinnamon, salt and ginger. Bake in gem 
pans. — [Mrs. A. I., la. 

MufSns 

To 1 beaten egg add 1 cup milk and 1 cup flour sifted with 
1 teasp baking powder and a pinch of salt. Bake in hot, well 
greased gem tins in hot oven. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Whole Wheat Muffins 

.^ To 1% cups whole wheat flour add % cup white flour, 2 
teasp baking powder, or 2 teasp cream tartar and 1 teasp soda, 
1 well-beaten egg, 1 tablesp molasses and 1 cup milk. — [B. H. 
K., Me. 

Grafaam Muffins (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups sour milk add 1 teasp soda, a little salt and enough 
graham flour to make a medium stiff batter. Bake in quick 
oven. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Graham Muffins 

To 1 qt fresh churned or "clabber" milk add 1 level teasp 
each soda and salt, and stir in enough graham flour to make 



102 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



a medium thick batter. Lastly stir in 1 well-beaten egg. 
Have muffin pans hot and well greased, put 1 tablesp of the 
batter in each ring, and bake in a hot oven. Serve hot with 
butter and sugar, or jelly. Equal parts of shorts and seconds 
well mixed make an excellent graham flour, or it may be 
ground from the wheat, but must not be bolted. — [I. H., Ala. 

Bye Muffins 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup rye meal, % teasp salt, 2 
teasp baking powder, % cup sugar, piece of butter the size of 
an egg, 1 well-beaten egg, and 1 cup milk. — [Unidentified. 

Sour Cream Mu£Biis 

To 1 pt sour cream add % teasp soda, a little salt, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. These are 
extra fine. — £Mrs. E. E. B.^ Md. 

Buttermilk Muffins 

To 1 pt rich buttermilk add % teasp soda and mix in suffi- 
cient flour to make a stiff batter. Lastly add 1 well-beaten egg 
and a pinch of salt. Bake in patty pans or rings, in a quick 
oven. — [Mrs. J. G. M., Cal. 

Yeast Muffins 

Scald 1 pt milk and when almost cool add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
3 tablesp yeast, 1 scant teasp salt, and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Let rise 4 or 5 hours and bake in muffin rings in 
a hot oven for about 10 minutes. — [M. B., 111. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Sift 1 pt flour with 3 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, add 1 beaten egg, with 2 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp melted 
butter, % cup milk, and 1 cup cooked oatmeal. Bake in gem 
pans or muffin rings. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Oatmeal Muffins (Yeast) 

To 1 large cup freshly cooked oatmeal, add 1 tablesp butter. 
1 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt and after mixing well add % to 
% yeast cake dissolved in a little warm water, and then add 
enough flour to mould very stiff. Let rise until light, drop in , 
warm well buttered gem pans, let rise again until soft, and 
bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. — [E. E. K., Mass. 



RICE MUFFINS AND RYE GEMS 1«S 

Honey Mu£9iis 

Sift together 3 cups flour, 3 teasp baking powder and %' 
teasp salt. Then worji in 3 tablesp butter and add 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 cup milk and % cup strained honey. Bake in 
gem tins or muffin rings in a moderate oven. — [C. B. H., Mich. 

Bice Muffins 

To 1 cup cold boiled rice add 2 cups milk, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 3 tablesp melted butter, 1 tablesp sugar, a little salt and 
2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a soft 
batter that will drop from the spoon. Fill hot gem irons, well 
greased, and bake % hour. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Bran Muffins 

To 1 cup nice, clean bran add 2 cups cornmeal, 2 cups sour 
milk in which 1 teasp soda has been dissolved, a little salt and 
1 tablesp molasses or sugar. Bake in muffin tins in hot oven. 
These are a pleasant cure for constipation, if eaten once a day> 
and are very good for small children so troubled. — [B. G. B.,. 
Kan. 

Southern Com Muffins 

To 1 pt buttermilk add 1 level teasp soda, 1 pt cornmeal, 1 
teasp lard or butter, 1 beaten egg, and a little salt and sugar. 
Bake in hot, well greased muffin pans, in a qnick orea, and 
serve warm, wrapped in napkins. This is an old Soathem 
"mammy's" recipe. — [Mrs. O. W. S., Wis. 

Eye Gems 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup rye, % cup sugar and 1 cup 
sour milk in which 1 level teasp soda has been dissolved. 
Bake in hot, w^U greased gem pans, in a hot oven. — [Mrs. W. 
L. J., Vt. 

Ginger Gems 

Cream % cup sugar with % cup butter, add % cup molas- 
ses, % cup hot water and 2 cups flour, sifted with 1 teasp each 
ginger, cinnamon, soda and a little cloves. Bake in gem pans 
in a hot oven. — [Mrs. C. E. R., la. 

Oatmeal Gems 

Soak overnight 2 cups rolled oats in 1% cups sour milk. In 
the morning add % cup molasses, 1 scant teasp soda dissolved 



104 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

in a little cold water, 1 level teasp salt, 2 well-beaten eggs, 
and 1 cup flour. Bake in a hot oven. These gems are very 
good without the eggs, when eggs are scarce. — [Mrs. C. E. A., 
K H. 

Graham Gems 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 pt milk, a little salt, and enough 
graham flour to make a stiff batter that will drop from a spoon. 
Bake in hot and well buttered gem pans, in a hot oven, about 
20 minutes. — [M. B., 111. 

Buttermilk Gems 

To 1 cup buttermilk add 2 cups sour cream, 1 teasp each salt 
and soda, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter which will drop from a spoon. Bake in well 
greased gem pans in quick oven. — [Mrs. N. F., Pa. 

Date Gems 

To 1 pt graham flour and 1 pt white flour add Vz teasp salt, 
1 level teasp soda, % cup sugar, 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in 
small pieces, and lastly enough rich buttermilk to make a stiff 
batter. Drop in hot, well greased gem pans, half filling each, 
and bake in quick oven until a golden brown. Raisins may be 
substituted for dates, and instead of making a stiff batter, less 
buttermilk can be used, the dough quickly turned out on a 
board, rolled % inch thick, cut into biscuits and brushed with 
sweet milk, and baked in a baking pan in a quick oven. — [E. 
F. S., Cal. 

Corn Dodgers 

To 1 qt cornmeal add a little salt, 1 tablesp butter, scald 
with boiling water, and boil hard for a minute or two, then 
drop the batter into well greased gem tins, and bake in a 
quick oven. — [A. E. H., Wash. 

Corn Pone 

Dissolve 1 teasp soda in 1 pt buttermilk, add scant teasp salt, 
1 tablesp sugar and enough cornmeal mlsed with a little flour 
to make a medium stiff batter. Lastly add 2 tablesp melted 
lard. Bake In a quick oven. — [N. H, G., O. 

Pop-Overs 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup milk, a pinch of salt, and sift 
in a little at a time 1 heaping cup flour. Beat well for 10 min- 
utes, and bake in hot, well greased irons. Baking powder or 
soda is not needed. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 



POP-OVERS AND BUCKWHEAT CAKES 185 



Graham Pop-Overs 

To 2 -well-beaten eggs add 2 cups milk, 2 cups graham flour, 
1 cup wUite flour and %, teasp salt. Beat well, half fill hot, well 
greased gem pans with the batter, and bake about 20 min- 
utes in a hot oven. — [Mrs J. L. T., N. Y. 

Graham Puffs 

Mix 1 cup graham flour with 1 cup pastry flour and Vz teasp 
salt, add slowly 2 cups milk, add 2 well-beaten eggs, beat 
again, then turn at once into hot buttered gem pans, filling 
each about % full, and bake in a hot oven about 30 minutes. 
—[Miss E. W., N. H. 

Cornstarch Puffs 

Cream 1 cup sugar with % cup butter, add beaten yolks of 
4 eggs, and gradually and alternately 1 cup cornstarch with the 
beaten whites of the eggs. Mix 2 level teasp baking powder 
with the cornstarch, and lastly add 1 teasp vanilla. Bake in 
well greased gem pans in hot oven. This recipe makes a dozen 
puffs. — [Mrs. B. S., W. Va. 

Potato Scones 

To 2 cups mashed potatoes add 2 cups flour, 2ozs butter, 2 
level teasp baking powder, % teasp salt, and milk enough t» 
make a dough that can he handled. Roll out % inch thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter, and bake in quick oven about 15 min- 
utes. — [Mrs. P. A. B., 111. 

Oatmeal Scones 

To 1 cup oatmeal flakes add % cup flour, 1 teasp salt, 1%, 
teasp baking powder, 1 cup sweet milk and 1 well-beaten egg.. 
Bake at once in hot, well greased gem irons, filling them half 
full. It will take about % an hour in a quick oven. This 
recipe makes 1 dozen scones. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Johnny Cake 

To 2 cups cornmeal, add 1 cup wheat flour, 1% cups sour 
milk, % «up sour cream in which dissolve 2 scant teasp soda, 
a pinch of salt and % cup sugar. — [Mrs. E. McC, N. Y. 

Yeast Buckwheat Cakes 

When the cakes are first started they should be set in the 
evening. Use 1 qt warm water, 1 cake yeast and buckwheat 



106 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and -white flour, half and half, enough to make an ordinary bat- 
ter. Put in a warm place to rise, and in the morning add % 
teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water. After the cakes 
have been started all that is necessary is to put away each 
morning a little of the batter to use in the evening as a starter 
by adding a little warm water and more flour. — [Mrs. B. S. W., 
Okla. 

Buttermilk Buckwheat Cakes 

Dissolve 1 level teasp soda in 2 cups buttermilk, add % cup 
sweet milk, 1 level teasp salt and then stir in 1 pt buckwheat 
flour. Beat well and bake immediately in hot oven. — [Mrs. W. 
K., la. 

Plain Waffles 

To 1 cup milk add 1 well-beaten egg, 2 teasp melted butter, 
and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a little 
salt. Bake in "piping hot" waffle irons, until crisp and brown. 
Butter while hot and eat with honey. — [K. A. D., N. D. 

Butteimilk Waffles 

To 1 well-beaten egg add a little salt, % cup thick sour 
cream, 1 pt buttermilk (or sour milk will do), and 1 level 
teasp soda sifted with flour enough to make a stiff batter. — i 
[H. B. H., N. Y. 

Baked Dnmpllngs 

Mix same as for biscuit, only use a little less shortening, roll 
thin, mark in 2-inch squares, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done break where marked, and serve with broth or soup poured 
over them. — [M. E. A., O. 

Boiled Dumplings 

To 1 cup boiling water add 1 pinch salt and % cup butter, 
then stir in 1 cup flour, and when sufficiently cooled off add 3 
eggs, one at a time, stirring vigorously. Drop by tablespoons- 
ful into the boiling soup and cover the kettle tightly. — [M. H., 
Neb. 

Drop Dumplings I 

Sift 1 qt flour with 2 teasp baking powder and 1 teasp salt, 
and then stir in milk to make a stifC batter that will just drop 
from the spoon. Wet a tablesp in boiling liquid and drop the 



BATTER AND MEAT DUMPLINGS 107 



batter by the tablespoonful into the soup or broth. Be sure to 
■wet the spoon thoroughly every time, so the batter will not 
stick to it. Water can be used instead of milk, in which 
case add a teasp shortening. Also sour milk and soda can be 
used instead of sweet milk and baking powder. — [I. T. B., 
Col. 

Drop Dumplings II 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup water and 1 teasp baking 
powder sifted with enough flour to make a stiff batter. Drop 
by spoonsful into boiling soup and boil about 15 or 20 minutes. 
. — [Mrs. D. D.. la. 

Broth Dumplings 

Sift 1 qt flour <ind a pinch of salt into a mixing pan, make 
a hole in the center, and pour in 2 cups hot chicken or beef 
broth. Stir it vigorously, roll thin, cut in small squares and add 
to the soup or broth, allowing them to boil about 20 minutes. 
— [L. L. T., N. D. 

Light Bread Dumplings 

When moulding the br<ead into loaves, mould some of the 
dough into small biscuits, and allow a half hour for these to 
rise. In a granite kettle place % cup butter and 1 pt water, 
and let this come to a boil, then put in the light biscuits, 
cover tightly, and let boil about 20 minutes, or until done. 
Serve with sweetened milk or cream. — [Mrs. R. M., Ind. 

liiver Dumplings 

Chop 1 lb beef liver very fine (it cannot be chopped too 
fine), and reject all skins and fibres. Add to this chopped 
liver 2 beaten eggs, % teasp salt, a generous sprinkle of ground 
allspice, and after beating all thoroughly, stir in 2 large cups 
flour. Drop by tablespoonsful into the boiling soup and boil 
about 8 to 10 minutes. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Meat Dumplings 

Chop very fine % lb lean pork and % lb beef, add 2 ozs 
melted butter, and the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 ozs stale bread which 
was soaked in water and squeezed out, also a little salt and nut- 
meg, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs. Mould into 
small dumplings, and drop in the boiling soup and boil until 
done. — [A. G., Mass. 



108 FAEM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Egg Dumplings 

About 1 hour before you want the dumplings ready to 
serve, beat up 4 eggs until light and add to them % pt hot 
soup broth and flavor with nutmeg, salt, and a little finely 
chopped parsley. Pour into a well buttered vessel and stand 
this Into another vessel filled with boiling water. Allow the 
mixture to become thick, but not hard. When thick drop by 
the spoonsful into hot soup. — [A. G., Mass. 

Potato Dumplings 

Cream a piece of butter about the size of a small egg, add 
yolks of 2 eggs, a saucerful of stale bread, grated, a saucerful 
cold potatoes, grated, (the potatoes must be nice and dry), 
season with salt and nutmeg and lastly add the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Mould into small dumplings, drop into the boiling 
soup and boil about 10 minutes. — [A. G., Mass. 

German Bread Dumplings 

Soak a stale loaf of bread (at least 4 or 5 days old) in water 
enough to cover and when soft squeeze out as much of the 
water as possible and break the bread up into, crumbs. Then 
add 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp shortening, 2 tablesp flour, 
a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg. Drop by the tablespoonful 
into salted, boiling water, and cook about 5 minutes, with 
the kettle uncovered. These are very good to serve with 
roast meat and gravy. It is a good plan to first boil one dump- 
ling and experiment with it, to see if the seasoning is just 
right, or if there Is enough flour to hold them together. — [N. 
P., N. H. 



If you have trouble to get the biscuits to brown, try using 
very shallow baking pans. — [Mrs. W. H. B., Cal. 

Twin biscuits are nice for a change. Roll out thin, cut, and 
put together in pairs, with melted butter between. — [Mrs A 

W., N. Y. , 

Baking powder mates just as nice biscuits with sour milk as 
with sweet, in fact I think the sour milk and baking powder 
biscuits are usually more tender. — [Mrs. J. E. W., Kan. 

Instead of working the shortening into the biscuit dough, I 
have found this to be a quicker way: Before putting the bis- 
cuits in the oven mate a dent in each with a knife, and put a 
little piece of butter in each. — [Mrs. A. P. H., N. Y 



BISCUIT AND MUFFIN HINTS 109 



Use any good biscuit recipe, but have the dough softer and 
drop from a spoon, instead of rolling it out. You will find the 
biscuits are much lighter, and can be more quickly made. Soft 
dough is the secret of good biscuits. — [Mrs. E. E. W., Pa. 

A nice way to make biscuits is not to put any shortening in 
the dough, as nearly all do, but to put some lard in the bak- 
ing pan, heat and dip the biscuits in, first on one side and then 
on the other. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. — [Mrs. H. P., 
Mo. 

The dough for soda biscuits should be barely stiff enough to 
handle. If the dough is too stiff the biscuits will be failures. 
Have a hot oven when you put them in, for one of the most 
important biscuit secrets is to have them rise and bake 
quickly. — [N. P., N. H. 

Baking powder biscuits should be worked as little as possi- 
ble. Instead of rolling the dough drop the batter by spoons- 
ful on a greased pan, and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes. 
Do not crowd the biscuits in the pan. A stiff dough worked 
liked bread makes a tough biscuit. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

When making baking powder biscuits handle and knead as 
little as possible. Have the water or milk as cold as possible, 
and the oven real hot. Make it a point to get the biscuits in 
the oven as quickly as possible. To improve the crust grease 
the biscuits on top with melted butter just before placing In 
the oven. — [Miss A. B., Wis. 

I find it is never necessary to use soda in making biscuits, 
no matter how sour the milk used may be. When the milk Is 
sour I just add a teasp or more baking powder. Biscuits made 
with buttermilk and baking powder are simply delicious, and 
there is no danger of them being yellow or soggy, provided one 
uses a good grade baking powder. — [Mrs. E. T., Cal. 



hri 



The secret of good muffins is to have the batter as stiff as 
can be beaten, and to beat it well, as that makes the muffins 
light. — [Mrs. P. H., Tex, 

Be sure to bake all gems and muffins in a hot oven, and 
take them out as soon as they are done. Anything made with 
soda will turn yellow or brown and taste strong, if overdone.-:— 
[G. B., N. Y. 

^Deep gem irons are best. They should be well greased and 
hot when the mixture is put in them, and should be only half 
filled. The oven should also be very hot. ffChe harder the gem 
tjtter is beaten the better. — [K. A. D., N. D. 



110 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

When dropping dumplings by the spoonful into the soup, be 
sure to wet the spoon thoroughly in the soup every time, to 
prevent the batter from sticking to the spoon. — [A. G., Mass. 

* 

The broth or soup should be boiling when the dumplings are 
dropped in, and the kettle tightly covered while the dumplings 
are boiling. The secret of having them light lies in not dis- 
turbing them while they are cooking. — [A. G., Mass. 

In making gems or breakfast cakes, I find that they will be 
just as light, even if the egg which the recipe usually calls for 
is omitted, provided the batter is well beaten and the gem 
irons and oven are both very hot. — [Mrs. G. H. W., N. H. 

Always have the waffle molds well greased. A rind of fat 
meat is best, as it greases more evenly than lard. Have the 
molds good and hot, and bake the waffles crisp and brown. 
When made right they will almost "melt in your mouth." — < 
[Mrs. W. B. F., N. C. 

, When you have a large quantity of dumplings to boil, it is 
a good plan to first mould them all and lay them out on a 
platter, so that they can all be dropped into the boiling liquid 
at once, as otherwise those dropped in first would be boiled 
longer than the last. — [A. G., Mass. 

Bread put to soak for dumplings must not be fresh nor 
must the water be warm, otherwise it will be a sticky mass. 
The bread should be several days old, and be soaked only a 
short while in cold water, after which it should be squeezed 
out with the hands and broken up into fine crumbs. — [A. G., 



Though the quantities called for in recipes are usually about 
correct, it is the best plan, since ingredients vary so much, to 
boil one dumpling as a sample. When dumplings are removed 
from the soup, they should be broken open to allow the steam 
to escape. This will prevent them from becoming soggy. — [A. 
G., Mass. 




J>uddin^s, Gustards and Sweet Sauces 

HEN fruit is plentiful puddings appear 
often as dessert on well supplied farm 
tables, and at all seasons puddings, when 
well made and not too rich, afford whole- 
some and favorite variety to the daily bill 
of fare. Every cook will surely be able to 
find among the following extensive collection of 
recipes something to suit her culinary resources and the 
family taste. The same recipes can frequently be used by 
substituting some other fruit, or varying the flavor. There 
are tri^s in all trades, and a clever cook can manage to 
make occasional changes to suit herself, without impairing 
the result, 

Apple Pudding 

To 1 CUB cream add 1 beaten egg, 2 teasp baking powder, 
and a little salt sifted with flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Lastly stir in about Vz doz large apples chopped fine. 
Bake in moderate oven. The hardest winter apples can be 
used^s long as they are chopped fine enough and the pudding 
is baked slowly. Sour cream and 1 teasp soda can be used if 
preferred, in that case omitting baking powder. Serve with a 
sweet sauce. — [Mrs. I. M. C, Wash. 

Crab Apple Pudding 

Core the apples and stew until soft in a syrup made of sugar 
and water. Do not have more syrup than the apples will take 
up, but be careful not to let the latter burn. When they are 
done, put them in a buttered pudding dish, and if they are not 
quite sweet enough, add sugar to taste. Make a soft batter of 
1 pt flour, 2 teasp baking powder, and milk. Turn this over 
the apples, cover the dish, and steam about 1% hours. Serve 
with cream. Another good way is to cover the apples with a 
thick custard made of milk, egg yolks, cornstarch and sugar, 
using the whites to make a meringue for the top. — [N. P., N. H. 

Dutch Apple Pudding 

Make a stiff batter of 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking 
powder, % cup butter, 1 egg, 1 scant cup milk, 2 tablesp sugar, 

111 



112 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and a little salt. Pour in a shallow, buttered pudding dish, cut 
apples in small pieces and press into top of batter, sprinkle over 
with sugar and cinnamon, and bake about 30 minutes. Serve 
with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Apple Slump 

Pare, quarter and core about % doz tart apples, and place 
them in a shallow buttered granite pudding dish. Pour over 
them 1 scant cup water, add the grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 1 cup sugar, and butter the size of a small egg. Place 
in a hot oven and then make a rich cream biscuit crust. Cut 
in small rounds with a tin box about size of a 50-cent piece, 
or if you have no such cutter handy, pinch off little pieces of 
the dough, flatten with the hands, and lay these little biscuits 
over the apples, closely together, but not overlapping. Cover 
the pudding dish, and when the pudding is nearly done, remove 
the cover to brown the biscuits. Serve hot with cream or any 
perf erred sauce. — [Mrs. K. C, Mo. 

Baked Apple Boll 

Make a dough of 1 qt flour, 1 teasp salt, 2 teasp baking pow- 
der, 2 tablesp butter, and 1 pt milk. Roll out about % inch 
thick, and spread with chopped apples. Roll up and pinch the 
ends together to prevent the juice from running out. Place 
in a baking pan with % cup butter, 2 cups sugar and 3 cups 
water. Bake about 1 % hours. This will ma&e its own sauce. 
-^[Mrs. D. H. H.. Ida. 

Boiled Apple Boll 

Make a dough of 1 qt flour, 1 tablesp lard, a little salt, and 
1 teasp soda, mixed with sour milk enough to make a dough 
that will roll. Roll about % inch thick, cover well with finely 
sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and a little nutmeg or cin- 
namon, and roll up, carefully pinching the ends together to 
prevent the escape of juice. Put this roll in a well floured bag, 
and boil out one hour. The water must be boiling when the 
pudding is put in, and must continue to boil without interrup- 
tion until the pudding is done. Any other fruit may be substi- 
tuted for apples. Serve with any preferred sauce. — [Mrs R 
T. B., N. C. 

Baked Brown Betty 

Grate some dry bread quite fine and pare and core apples 
and chop fine. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of apples, sprinkle with sugar, and a lit- 
tle nutmeg or cinnamon, dot with bits of butter, and alternate 




THE CUTHBBRT RED RASPBERRY. 



ORANGE AND LEMON PUDDINGS 113 



in this way until tlie dish is filled. If the apples are not very 
juicy moisten with a little water. Bake until the apples are 
done and the pudding is brown on top. The top layer should 
be of bread crumbs, sprinkled with sugar and dotted with but- 
ter. Serve warm with cream. — [Mrs. G. O. F., N. H. 

Peach Padding 

Fill a pudding dish with whole peeled peaches, pour over 
them 2 cups water, cover closely and bake until tender. Then 
drain off the juice, and let it stand until cool. Add to the 
juice 1 pt sweet milk, 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 
tablesp melted butter, and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- 
ing powder and a little salt. Beat well and pour this batter 
over the peaches in the pudding dish. Bake a rich brown and 
serve with cream. — [Mrs. W. K., Gal. 

Orange Pudding 

Make a boiled custard of eggs, milk and cornstarch, sweet- 
ened to taste. Put a layer of this in a dish, then a layer of 
sliced oranges, another of custard, and so on until the dish is 
filled. Chill, and serve with whipped cream. In preparing the 
oranges be sure to remove all the white particles of the peel 
and between sections, and be careful that no pits remain in the 
pieces. — [Mrs. H. M. C, Ind. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding 

Put over the fire in an agate vessel 2 % cups water or milk, 
and 1 cup sugar. "When this is boiling stir into it 4 heaping 
teasp cornstarch dissolved in % cup water. Let this boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly, then remove from fire and add 
the juice and grated rind of 3 lemons, the beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, and 1 teasp butter. Fill small preserve dishes with this 
mixture and let them stand a while to allow the pudding to 
thicken and get cold. When ready to serve top off each dish 
with a meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs, pow- 
dered sugar, and a little lemon flavoring. — [Mrs. 0. von W., 
N. J 

Frosted Iiemon Pudding 

To 1 pt bread or cake crumbs (or both mixed) add 1 qt 
milk, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, the beaten yolks of 
3 eggs, 4 tablesp sugar, and a pinch of salt. Turn into a well 
buttered pudding dish and bake. When done cover with a 
frosting made of the whites of the eggs and 3 tablesp powdered 
sugar, and return to the oven to brown slightly. — [N. P., N. H. 



114 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Banana Pudding 

Cream % cup butter with % cup sugar, add 1 beaten egg, 
% cup milk, and 2 cups flour sifted witli % teasp soda and 1 
teasp cream tartar. Flavor with vanilla. Pour % of this 
batter into a buttered pudding dish, then 3 ripe bananas, sliced, 
cover with remainder of batter, and steam about 1% hours. 
Serve with a sauce prepared as follows: Make a syrup of % 
cup sugar and 1 cup water. "When it threads remove from fire, 
add 2 tablesp lemon juice, 2 well-beaten eggs, a little salt, and 

3 mashed ripe bananas. Beat until smooth. — [J. E. G., Me. 

Fig Pudding 

To 1 cup finely chopped suet add 1 lb figs, cut fine, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups milk, and 2 cups bread crumbs. 
Turn into a well greased mould and boil 3 hours. Serve hot. — i 
[Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Date Pudding 

To 1 lb dates, cut fine, add %, lb suet, chopped fine, % lb 
bread crumbs, % lb sugar, beaten yolks of 2 eggs, % cup 
milk, and spices to taste. Lastly fold in the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Steam 2 hours. Serve with a hard sauce. — [P. R. 
H. 

Persimmon. Pudding 

Mash % gal good, sweet persimmons, using 1 cup water, and 
strain through a cloth to remove seed and skin. Then add 1% 
cups sweet milk, % cup melted butter, 2 cups sugar, and 
enough flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder to make a 
medium stiff batter. Turn into a buttered biscuit pan, and 
bake slowly about 1 hour. Let cool in the pan, and serve cold, 
sliced like cake. This is worth trying by lovers of persimmons. 
^-[Mrs. H. M. F., N. C. 

Prune Pudding 

To 1 well-beaten egg add % cup sugar, 1 % cups milk, and 

4 cups flour sifted with 1 Vz teasp baking powder, and % teasp 
salt. Turn this batter into a well-buttered pudding dish and 
pour over the top % lb stewed and sweetened prunes from 
which the pits have been removed. Bake about 30 minutes, 
and serve with sugar and cream. — Mrs. A. D., 111. 

Prune Whip 

Cook 1 lb dried prunes until very soft, in no more water than 
necessary. When done remove the stones, mash fine, add 1 
cup sugar; mix well, and then add the stiflly beaten whites of 
4 eggs. Bake about 30 minutes. Serve cold or warm, with 
sweetened and whipped cream. — [C. B. H., Mich. 



FRUIT AND BATTER PUDDINGS 115 



Rhubarb Pudding 

Cut tender rhubarb into small pieces and add 1 cup sugar 
to each pint rhubarb. Place in a buttered pudding dish and 
cover with batter made of 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup milk and flour 
enough to make a thick batter, sifted with 2 teasp baking pow- 
der and a little salt. Bake, and when done turn out on a plat- 
ter, so that the rhubarb will be on top. Serve warm with sugar 
and cream. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Cherry Pudding 

Stew and sweeten well 1 qt pitted cherries. Make a batter 
of 1 % cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a little 
salt, add 1 beaten egg and milk enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Drop by spoonsful over the stewed cherries, cover the ves- 
sel well and cook on top of range about 20 minutes. — [Mrs. 
E. B. S., Pa. 

Currant Pudding 

To 1 qt flour add 1 pt finely chopped suet, 1 level teasp salt, 
1 pt ripe currants, and enough water to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour, and serve while warm. 
— [R. A. Mod., S. D. 

Cranberry Padding 

Moisten 2 cups bread crumbs with % cup melted butter, 
sprinkle a layer of these crumbs in a buttered pudding dish, 
next add a layer of stewed and sweetened cranberries, about 1 
doz large seeded raisins, a little grated lemon peel, and some 
sugar. Continue in this way until the crumbs are all used up, 
then cover the pudding dish and bake about 20 minutes. Serve 
warm with a hard sauce. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Danish Berry Pudding 

Cook blackberries, raspberries, currants or any other berry, 
in enough water to cover. When done strain twice through a 
sieve, put over the flre again, sweeten to taste, let come to a 
boil, and then thicken with cornstarch, moistened in a little 
cold water. Flavor to taste, and pour into cups that have been 
wet with cold water. Let stand until cold, and stiff, and when 
ready to serve turn cups upside down over a saucer and the 
contents will slip out intact. Serve with cream. — [Mrs. J. D. 
J., Cal. 

Christmas Pudding 

The ingredients needed for this old-fashioned pudding are 1 
qt each 'seeded raisins, chopped apples, chopped beef suet, stale 
bread crumbs, flour and sweet milk, and 1 pt each currants, 



116 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



citron and sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teasp salt and 8 eggs. 
Dredge the fruit thoroughly from the 1 at flour. Into a large 
bowl put the eggs and then stir in the crumbs and the dredged 
fruit and suet. Dip the baking bag in boiling water, and then 
dredge it from the quart of flour, and put whatever remains of 
the flour into the pudding mixture. Next pour the pudding in 
the floured bag, and tie firmly, allowing room to swell, and boil 
3 hours steadily in plenty boiling water. Replenish with boil- 
ing water when necessary. This pudding is nice when served 
with the following sauce: Simmer for a few minutes over a 
slow fire, stirring constantly, % lb sweet butter, % lb brown 
sugar, and the yolk of 1 egg; lastly add % pt canned grape 
juice and after removing from the fire grate in a little nutmeg. 
— [Mrs. D., Kan. 

Blackberry Padding 

Make a plain pie crust or a rich biscuit dough, roll out 
about hi inch thick, and cover with ripe, clean blackberries. 
Sprinkle with sugar, fold over the dough, add more berries and 
sugar, fold over again, and repeat this till all the dough is 
folded over, so it will make a flat, long roll. Press the ends 
together securely, place roll in a well greased pan, and bake 
until a light brown. Serve cold with cream and sugar. — [M. 
A. W., Ind. 

Suet Padding 

Mix 1 cup each seeded and chopped raisins and suet, % cup 
currants, 1 cup syrup, 1 cup sour milk, in which has been dis- 
solved 2 even teasp soda, and enough flour with a little salt to 
make a stiff batter. Steam 2 hours, and serve with lemon 
sauce. — [Mrs. R. S. Q., Mont. 

Soet Padding (Xo Eggs) 

To 1 cup finely chopped suet add 4 cups flour sifted with 1 
teasp baking powder, ^ lb seeded and chopped raisins, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup milk, a little cinnamon, and a pinch salt. Boil 
about 2 % hours. Serve warm with the following sauce: Mix 
1 tablesp cornstarch with a little cold water, and then pour 
over, stirring vigorously, % cup boiling water and 2 tablesp 
vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablesp butter, 1 cup sugar, and % 
grated nutmeg. Boil until thick and smooth, — [Mrs. L. J., 
Cal 

Baked Soet Pudding 

To % cup chopped suet add 2 cups bread crumbs, % cup 
sugar. % lb seeded raisins, 2 well-beaten eggs, and 1 scant 



SUET AND PLUM PUDDINGS 111 



cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Place this mixture- 
in a buttered baking dish and pour over cold milk enough to. 
almost cover. Bake about % hour or a little longer, if neces- 
sary. Serve hot with whipped cream or any preferred sauce. — 
[E. B., Mich. 

Plain Pudding 

To 1 well-beaten egg add % cup brown sugar, % cup N O 
molasses, 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 1 cup- 
chopped suet well dredged with flour, 1 lb each raisins and, 
currants, dredged with flour, % lb chopped citron and scant Z 
cups flour mixed with % teasp each ginger and cinnamon and 

1 grated nutmeg. Steam 2% hours and serve with lemon- 
sauce or any other preferred sauce. — [Miss E. W., Wash. 

Plum Padding (No Sggs) 

To 1 cup bread crumbs add 1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup" 
molasses, 1 cup seeded and chopped raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, 

2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp each soda, salt and cinnamon, 
and % teasp cloves. Boil 3 hours in a 2-qt kettle, set into a 
larger kettle of boiling water, or steam about same length of 
time. Serve with a sauce made of 1 cup white sugar, butter 
the size of an egg, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, and the 
white of 1 egg. Rub all to a cream and add a little boiling 
water. — [Miss L. G., Minn. 

Baked Fresh Plum Pudding 

To 1 cup sour milk add % teasp soda, 1 level teasp salt, 2 
heaping tablesp lard, melted, and flour enough to make a bis- 
cuit dough. Roll out thin and Spread evenly with cooked fresh 
plums from which the juice has been drained and the stones 
removed. Roll up, pinch the ends together securely, place in 
a roasting pan, sprinkle with 1 cup sugar, dot with pieces of 
butter, and pour over all the juice of the plums, adding enough 
boiling water to almost cover the roll. Bake about % hour 
and serve warm in its own sauce. Use a baking pan no larger 
than necessary to hold the roll, as otherwise it will require 
too much sauce. Any other tart fruit can be substituted for 
plums. — [Mrs. M. R., Ida. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding 

To 1% cups bread crumbs soaked in sweet milk until soft, 
add 3 cups cooked and pitted prunes, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 
cup chopped apples, scant % cup chopped citron, % cup 
chopped figs, % cup molasses, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup 
milk, 1% teasp baking powder and a little salt sifted with 2 
cups flour. Steam about 4 hours. This pudding will keep well 
and portions of it can be re-steamed when wanted. Serve with 
any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. G. McM., Cal. 



118 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Boiled Tapioca Padding 

Soak 1 cup tapioca over night in a quart bowl nearly filled 
with water. Next morning put this into a double boiler and 
cook until clear, stirring occasionally. When clear add 1 cup 
sugar, a small piece butter, and the beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Pour into a dish, and when cool serve with cream. Anothei 
way is to use the yolks of the eggs in the pudding, instead of 
the whites, beating the latter to a froth, adding some pow- 
dered sugar, and spreading the meringue over the top of the 
pudding. Place in a hot oven for a few minutes to brown. — 
[Mrs. C. S., Kan. 

Apple Tapioca Padding 

Soak 1 cup tapioca in 1% pts milk about 3 or 4 hours and 
then heat it until it becomes transparent, and add a pinch of 
salt. Pare and cut the cores from 6 good sized apples, arrange 
these in a well buttered baking dish, fill the holes in the apples 
with sugar, add any preferred spice and little bits of butter, 
pour in 1 cup water, and bake until the apples are soft. When 
done pour the tapioca prepared as above over the apples in the 
pudding dish and return to the oven about % hour. Serve 
with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Rhabarb and Prune Tapioca Padding 

Remove the stones from 2 doz cooked prunes, and add % 
cup of the liquid in which the prunes were cooked, % cup 
sugar, and 1 pt chopped raw rhubarb. Boil 10 minutes, then 
add % cup tapioca which has been soaked for 1 hour in 1 cup 
cold water. Cook until tapioca is clear, and serve either hot 
or cold, with cream and powdered sugar. — [N. P., N. H. 

Indian Tapioca Padding 

To 2 tablesp Indian Meal add 1 tablesp each cocoanut and 
tapioca, V2 cup molasses, ^, cup sugar, butter size of a wal- 
nut, a little salt and 1 qt scalding hot milk. Bake 2 hours 
in a slow oven. Serve with cream. — [P, L. R., Ct. 

Steamed Indian Padding (Xo Eggs) 

Heat 1 qt skim milk, stir in % cup cornmeal and cook until 
it thickens. Remove from fire, stir in % cup sugar, % cup 
raisins, 1 teasp vinegar, 14 teasp cinnamon and 1 level teasp 
salt. Let cool and then steam about 6 hours. Cooling before 
steaming makes this pudding "jell." Serve with cream. — 
[Mrs. J. I. M., N. H. 



RICE AND INDIAN PUDDINGS 119 

Indian Fruit Pudding 

Put 1 heaping cup Indian meal in a mixing bowl, stir in 1 
cup molasses and 1 level teasp salt. Scald 3 pts milk and pour 
it boiling hot over the meal, stirring it to a smooth batter. 
Butter a deep pudding dish, cover the bottom with stoned 
chopped prunes, pour the batter over them and just before the 
pudding is placed in the oven pour carefully over the top 1 
cup cold sweet milk, but do not stir it in. Bake about 4 or 5 
hours. Serve with cream. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Apple Commeal Pudding 

Boil 1 cup cornmeal in salted water until it thickens. Pare, 
quarter and core sour apples, mix these with the thickened 
meal, and steam in a covered dish about 4 hours. The more 
apples you put in the pudding the better it will be. This is fine 
to serve with roast pork, and is said to prevent the harmful 
effects upon the stomach, usually attributed to roast pork. 
This recipe has been handed down in our family for more than 
100 years. — [J. E. B., Mass. 

Graham Padding t. 

Sift together 2 cups graham flour, 1 teasp each soaa and 
cinnamon, and % teasp each salt and cloves. Pour over this 1 
cup milk and % cup molasses. Beat well, then add 1 cup 
seeded raisins well dredged with flour, and pour this mixture 
into well greased cans, allowing space for swelling. Cover 
closely and steam for 2 to 4 hours, according to size of molds. 
Serve warm with a golden sauce made of scant % cup butter 
creamed with 1 cup powdered sugar, 3 tablesp cream added 
slowly, Vz teasp vanilla, and 1 well-beaten egg. Heat over a 
kettle of hot water, stirring frequently, and serve hot with 
the warm pudding. — [E. T., Va. 

Boiled Bice Pudding 

Wash and drain 2 small cups rice and cook with plenty 
water in a double boiler. When done the water should be all 
absorbed and the grains very large. Add a mixture made of 3 
well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, a little salt and 
grated nutmeg. Stir well and boil till thick — about 5 minutes. 
— [Mrs. J. J. M., 111. 

Eiggless Bice Pudding 

Wash % cup rice, drain, add 1 cup sugar, small piece butter, 
a little nutmeg and 2 qts fresh milk. Bake in moderate ovea 
about 2 hours. Raisins can be added if liked. Stir up from 
bottom of dish often until rice is cooked. This is good served 
hot, but we prefer it cold. — [Mrs. S. C. S., N. Y. 



120 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Tapioca and Bice Pudding 

Soak % cup tapioca in 1 cup water, and in another vessel 
soak % cup rice in 2 cups water. Let stand over night and 
next morning combine them and add 4 cups milk, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, salt and sugar to taste, and a little lemon flavor. — [Misa 
B. C. B., O. 

licmon Rice Padding 

Stir into 1 cup boiling rice the grated rind of 1 lemon, 6 
tablesp sugar, the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 pt milk and a little 
salt. Bake about 1 hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stifC froth, add 1 scant cup confectioner's sugar and the juice 
of 1 lemon. When the pudding is done spread this meringue 
over it, and return to the oven a few minutes to lightly brown. 
— [F. S. T., Ct. 

Sago Padding 

Put 3 pts rich milk in a double boiler, add 1 cup sago and 
let cook till clear. Remove from fire, add beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, % cup sugar, and flavor with lemon or vanilla, or a little 
of both. Pour into a well buttered baking dish and bake 
about % hour. When done cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and a little powdered sugar, and return to the 
oven a few minutes to brown.— [Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 

Bhabarb Sago Padding 

Cook slowly % cup sago and 1 qt water until clear, then 
add 1 scant cup sliced rhubarb, pinch salt, % cup sugar and 
small piece ginger root. Turn into buttered baking dish and 
bake about 1 hour in moderate oven. If the mixture seems too 
thick, add a little water. Serve hot with cream and sugar. — 
[Unidentified. 

Cornstarch Padding 

Heat 1 qt sweet milk and add to It 3 rounding tablesp corn- 
starch mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Stir well, then 
add 5 tablesp sugar and a little salt. Cook about 5 minutes, 
and then add 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs and 1 teasp butter. Bake 
in a well buttered pudding dish and serve cold with cream. — ■ 
[Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Oatmeal Pudding 

Soak 1 cup oatmeal over night in 1 qt milk; in the morning 
add 1 well-beaten egg, % cup seeded raisins, nutmeg and salt to 
taste and 4 tablesp sugar. Bake about 1 hour. This is nice 
for invalids and people with poor digestion. — [Mrs. L,. A. G., 
Mass. 



BREAD AND COTTAGE PUDDINGS 121 

Plain Bread Pudding 

Butter well small pieces of stale bread, arrange them in a 
well buttered pudding dish, sprinkle with a little nutmeg and 
cinnamon, cover well with sweetened milk, and bake. — [R. W., 
Mo. 

BoUed Bread Pudding 

To 1 cup fine bread crumbs add 1 pt milk, beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, 2 tablesp sugar, piece butter size of small egg and any 
preferred flavoring. Place in a double boiler and cook until 
done, stirring occasionally. When done turn out into a pud- 
ding dish, squeeze the juice of 1 lemon over the top, place bits 
of jelly over the top and lastly the beaten whites of the egga 
with powdered sugar. We think this much better than baked 
pudding. — [Mrs. M. A. B., Mich. 

Raised Bread Pudding 

Roll out some light bread dough about % inch thick, cover 
with finely sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and a little cinna- 
mon, dot with pieces of butter, wet the edges of the dough 
with a little milk, then roll up lightly and pinch the edges 
securely together. Let stand about % hour and then steam 
until done. Serve with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. D. J. W.. 
Mici).. 

Graham Bread Pudding 

A. delicious pudding can be made ;from graham bread cruste 
by soaking them in milk, adding eggs and sugar to taste, and a 
little vanilla flavor. If you happen to have a little cocoa left 
from breakfast this can also be added to the pudding. — [Mrs. 
B. B. M., Kan. 

Caramel Pudding 

Brown % cup granulated sugar in a pie tin set on top of the 
stove. Stir constantly and be sure it is well browned. Then 
stir this browned sugar into 1 qt scalding milk, add pinch salt, 
stir well, and when cool add 4 well-beaten eggs, saving out the 
whites of 2. Pour into a buttered pudding dish and bake until 
well set. When done cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of the 2 eggs and some powdered sugar, and return to 
the oven a few minutes to brown. Instead of the egg meringue 
I sometimes serve this pudding with whipped and sweetened 
cream on top. — [Mrs. P. B. P., Wash. 



122 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



A Cottage Pudding 

Cream % cup sugar and 1 tablesp butter, add 1 well-beaten 
egg, % cup milk and 1 scant cup flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- 
ing powder and a little salt. Bake in a moderate oven, and 
serve bot or cold with any preferred sauce. — [K. A. D., N. D. 

Rhubarb Cottage Pudding 

Mix 1 pt flour with 1 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, and add milk enough to make a stifC batter. Into but- 
tered custard cups put 1 spoonful batter, then 1 spoonful pre- 
pared rhubarb sauce, and top off with another spoonful batter. 
Steam % hour, and serve hot with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. 
J. W. M., Pa. 

Baked Chocolate Padding 

To 1 cup bread crumbs add 1 qt hot milk, 1 oz grated choc- 
olate, % cup sugar, 1 well-beaten egg, 1 teasp vanilla and a 
little salt. Soak the bread crumbs in part of the hot milk and 
beat until smooth, then add the rest of the milk and the other 
ingredients, and bake until firm, in a slow oven. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. — [E. M. R., Ct. 

Cracker Padding 

To about 4 plain soda or butter crackers polled fine add 1 qt 
milk, % cup sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs and a pinch of salt. 
Bake in a well buttered pudding dish, and when done spread 
over the top the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with % cup 
powdered sugar and flavored with any preferred flavoring. 
Return to the oven a few minutes to brown. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Biscuit Pudding 

Pour enough boiling water on 4 or 5 stale biscuits to cover, 
and set on the back of the stove to soften. When soft mash 
free from lumps, and stir in a mixture made of 1 cup sugar 
creamed with % cup butter, and beaten-yolks of 3 eggs. Flavor 
with any preferred flavoring. Bake about 15 or 20 minutes. 
When done put over the top some plum or any other jelly, and 
cover with a meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs 
and % cup powdered sugar. Return to the oven a few minutes 
to brown. May be served hot or cold. — [Mrs. L. J. A., Ala. 

Raw Potato Pudding 

Grate 2 large raw potatoes, add 1 lb finely chopped suet, 1% 
qts buttermilk or water, 1 cup sugar, % cup molasses, a little 
salt and fiour enough to make a stiff batter. 1 put this batter 



POTATO AND PUMPKIN PUDDINGS 123 



away in a cool place and use as wanted during the winter. 
When wanted take a portion of this batter, add % teasp soda, 
or less, dissolved in a little hot water, salt, raisins or currants, 
and spices to suit taste. Steam about 1 hour. Serve with any 
preferred sauce. This is a favorite pudding in our family. — 
[Mrs. E. J. D., N. Y. 

Sweet Potato Pudding I 

To 1 pt grated raw sweet potatoes add 1 cup sugar, 3 or 4 
well-beaten eggs, 1% cups milk, pinch salt and spice to suit. 
Beat well and turn into a pudding dish in which 2 tablesp but- 
ter has been melted. Bake in a slow oven about 1 hour. Serve 
plain, -or with cream or any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. P. H., Tex. 

Sweet Potato Pudding II 

Mash fine about 4 medium large, baked sweet potatoes. 
While hot add 3 well-beaten eggs, i% cups sugar, 2 tablesp 
butter, 2 tablesp flour, 1 cup milk and a little nutmeg or any 
flavor to suit. This pudding is nice with a meringue, and if 
this is wanted, leave out the whites of the eggs, whip to a 
stiff froth with a little powdered sugar, and spread over the 
pudding when it is done, and return it to the oven a few min- 
utes to brown lightly. — [Mrs. W. V. P., Pla. 

Pumpkin Pudding 

Pare the pumpkin, remove pulp and seeds, cut into small 
pieces and cook until soft. Mash, and to each cup mashed 
pumpkin measured without the juice, add 1 tablesp flour, 1 
beaten egg, % cup sugar, 1 teasp ginger, some salt and sweet 
milk enough to make 1 qt batter. Other spices and butter can 
be added, if liked. Bake in a moderate oven 3 hours. — [Mrs. 
T. v.. Wis. 

Baked Carrot Pudding 

To 1 cup grated, raw carrots, add 1 cup finely chopped suet, 
1 cup fiour, 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 tablesp 
milk, % teasp cloves, % teasp salt, 1 teasp cinnamon and 1 
well-beaten egg. Sift the spices with the flour, and lastly add 
1 cup currants dredged with flour. Bake about 3 hours. 
Serve warm with or without sauce. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

MarshmaUow Snow Pudding 

Soak 1 tablesp clear gelatine in % cup cold water to soften. 
Let this stand a while, and then add % cup boiling water. 



124 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

While this is cooling beat up the whites of 3 eggs and add 1 
small cup powdered sugar. Next with the egg beater beat up 
the cold gelatine mixture until it froths and stiffens like egg 
whites, after which beat in the stiff egg whites, and flavor with 
vanilla. It will t"ke 10 or 15 minutes of vigorous beating to 
froth the gelatine mixture, and can only be done in cool 
weather. Set away in a cold place until ready to serve. This 
is a delicious pudding and safe for invalids and children.— - 
[A. Gr., Mass. 

Com Pudding 

With a sharp knife score through the center of each row of 
kernels of 10 good roasting ears of corn, and with the back of 
a silver knife scrape off the grains. This method will leave the 
husks on the cob. Into the corn mix 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 
2 cups sugar, 2 cups milk, butter the size of an egg, 3 tablesp 
cornstarch or flour, some salt, and lemon or vanilla flavor. 
Bake, and during the first % hour or hour stir it frequently 
and carefully, then smooth off with the back of a spoon, and let 
it bake until done and a nice brown on top. — [Mrs. E. B. C, 
N. C. 

Vegetable Pudding 

This pudding is equal to the richest plum pudding, and 
comes in season just when.the hens are not laying — or, if they 
are laying, the eggs can be sold to advantage. Put through 
the food chopper 1 lb hoiled carrots, 1 lb suet, 1 lb stale bread 
and to this add 1 lb seeded raisins cut in halves, 1 lb currants, 
% lb citron, % lb lemon peel cut fine, 1 lb sugar, 1 teasp mixed 
spices to taste, 1 large cup syrup and small % cup apple or 
grape juice or the juice from canned or sweet pickled fruit, 
then gradually add 3 large cups flour and mix very thoroughly. 
This will make a large pudding which will require about 48 
hours boiling, but if preferred, the mixture can be divided into 
small, well buttered bowls, and boiled about 12 hours. Use % 
the above given quantities if a smaller pudding is desired. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. — [P. B., N. Y. 

Tomato Pudding 

Slice some peeled ripe tomatoes into a well buttered pudding 
dish, and sprinkle with salt. Add a few cold biscuits broken 
fine, 1 qt sweet milk, 2 well-beaten eggs and 1 % cups sugar. 
The milk, eggs and sugar should be heated together and poured 
over the tomatoes and biscuits. Bake. — [Mrs. H. M. F., N. C. 



PUFF PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS 125 

Puff Pudding 

Stir 9 tablesp flour into 1 pt boiling milk. Let this boil up, 
stirring to prevent it from getting lumpy, then remove from 
fire, and add 3 well-beaten eggs and pinch salt. Bake in a 
quick oven about % hour. Serve warm with cream and sugar. 
' — [J. B. B., Mass. 

Xnt Pudding (Rich) 

To 1 cup chopped nut meats add 1 cup chopped and pitted 
dates, 1 cup sugar, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk, butter size of wal- 
nut, 1 scant teasp baking powder and 1 cup bread crumbs. 
Bake about % hour. — [Mrs. H. M. C, Ind. 

Graham Hut Pudding 

To 2 cups graham flour add % teasp salt, 2 level teasp bak- 
ing powder, 1 cup milk in which dissolve small % teasp soda, 
% cup molasses, 1 cup seeded raisins cut flne, ^ cup walnut 
meats cut fine, or blanched almonds, cut fine. Mix thoroughly 
and steam about 8 hours. — [Mrs. C. B. G., Ariz. 

Plain Baisin Custard 

To 1 qt milk add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablesp cornstarch, 5 
tablesp sugar and % cup seeded raisins. If liked mix in a lit- 
tle spice. Bake until the custard is set. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Cocoanut Custard 

To % cup rolled cracker crumbs add 1 cup grated cocoanut, 
1 small cup sugar, the beaten white of 1 egg, and the yolks of 
3 eggs. Bake about % hour and when done cover with a 
meringue made from the beaten whites of 2 eggs and a little 
sugar, flavored to taste. , Return to the oven a few minutes to 
brown. — [H. L. N., Mass. 

Cream Custard 

To 1 pt sweet cream add % lb sugar, beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 
beaten whites of 3 eggs and a little grated nutmeg and salt. 
Pour into a well buttered deep pie plate which has been sprin- 
kled with bread or cake crumbs, about as thick as an ordinary 
pie crust, and also cover the top of the pudding with a dress- 
ing of crumbs. Bake until set. Custard should be baked just 
long enough to. have it set. If baked too long it will become 
watery. — [B. B., Pa. 



126 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cheap Sauce 

Mix 1 teasp flour with Vi cup sugar, and stir this into a 
smooth paste with a little cold milk, then pour on boiling milk 
till it is thick enough. Let it boil a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Flavor to taste. — [M. B. A., O. 

Butter Sauce 

To % cup butter add % cup sugar and 2 cups water. Let 
this come to a boil, then stir in 2 teasp flour moistened with a 
little cold water. Let boil a few minutes longer, or until it 
thickens, then remove from fire, and flavor with vanilla. — 
[Miss G. L. H., W. Va. 

Hard Sauce 

'^ Cream 1 cup sugar with a liberal % cup butter; then add 
gradually % teasp lemon extract and % teasp vanilla extract. 
Serve cold with warm pudding. — [Mrs. C. J. H., Vt. 

Uncooked Sweet Sauces 

Wash berries, drain and add sugar to the fruit. Mix well 
together and let stand for 1 hour. Currants should be 
stemmed and washed, next lightly crushed (not mashed) with 
a potato masher, then mixed with a liberal amount of sugar, 
and let stand a while. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Maple Sugar Sauces 

Boil % lb maple sugar with % cup water until it threads, 
then pour into the stiffly whipped whites of 2 eggs, beating 
vigorously all the while, and next add % cup sweet cream and 
1 teasp lemon juice. Another plain sauce is made by grating 
% lb maple sugar into % cup sweet milk or cream, boiling it 
for a few minutes, and stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Still another sauce is made by cooking in a double boiler about 
20 minutes, 2 cups grated maple sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs, 
juice of 2 lemons, and 1 scant tablesp butter. — [Mrs. J. C. H., 
Vt. 

English Plum Pudding Sauce 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 tablesp butter and 1 tablesp corn- 
starch moistened with a little cold water. Then pour over 1 
pt boiling water, stirring all the time, and let boil until corn- 
starch is done. Then remove from fire and flavor to taste— 
% lemon and % vanilla extract is nice, and a pinch of salt.— 
[Mrs. R. C, Ida. 



CRANBERRY, APPLE AND GRAPE SAUCES 12T 

Stewed Whole Cranberries 

Use only the best ripe berries, discarding all the soft and 
inferior ones, which may be used for marmalade or strained 
sauce. Wash the berries, and then put them into a double 
boiler. In a separate vessel cook together for 10 minutes one- 
half as much sugar as you have berries, and half as much 
•water as sugar. Then pour this boiling syrup over the berries 
in the double boiler, and place the latter over a hot Are, and 
cook until the berries are done. This will take about 1 hour. 
Do not stir the berries, but from time to time press them down 
under the syrup, so that all may be equally cooked. Be care- 
ful that the water does not get too low in the outside boiler. 
Cooked in this manner the skins do not separate from the 
pulp, and the cranberries appear more like stewed cherries. — i 
[N. M. P., N. H. 

Cranberry and Apple Sauce 

To the desired amount of cranberries add one-half as much 
peeled apples, cored and quartered, and stew together until 
tender. Then remove from fire and let stand until nearly 
cold before adding sugar to taste. It will not require nearly 
as much sweetening as when hot, and the apples impart a 
pleasant flavor, and also help to save sugar. If this sauce is 
rubbed through a sieve to remove the skins of the cranberries, 
it will be found to be a very pleasing as well as economical 
sauce to serve with meats of any kind. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Cranberry Sauce (Jelly) 

Add 1 cup water to 1 qt cranberries and cook 10 to 15 
minutes, then add 2 heaping cups sugar and cook 10 to 15 
minutes longer. Rub through a sieve and pour into a mold 
wet in cold water. When ready to serve turn out on a platter. 
— [B. H. K., Me. 

Thin Cranberry Sauce 

Boil together 1 qt cranberries and 2 qts water, and when 
done add % cup sugar, and 1 tablesp flour or cornstarch 
moistened -^ilh a little cold water. Cook 10 minutes longer 
and then rub through a sieve. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Grape Sauce 

To 1 cup stewed grapes, seeds and skins removed, add IW 
cups sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs and 3 cups boiling hot water. 
Thicken a little with cornstarch and before removing from 
flre add l»;mp butter about size of an egg, and 1 teasp vanilla 
flavor. — [Mrs. A. W. T.. Mich. 



128 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash the rhubarb (about 1 lb of it, if your family is small, 
for like apple sauce, it is better not to let it stand for any 
length of time), trim the tops, but do not peel as the red 
skins impart a fine flavor and color. Cut it up into pieces and 
to 3 cups rhubarb add 2 cups sugar but no water. Place on 
the back of the range until the sugar melts gradually and then 
cook slowly without stirring, until done. In this way the pieces 
will remain nice and whole. — [Mrs. C. C, N. Y. 

Strawberry Sanre 

Cream 1 cup sugar and Vz cup butter, and then add % pt 
crushed strawberries, mixing all well together. Another way 
is to put 1 qt strawberries over the fire with 1 % cups sugar and 
2 tablesp butter. Stir constantly as it bums easily. — [M. W., 
S. C. 

Boiled Cider Sauce 

Cream % cup butter and 1 cup sugar, then stir in. % cup 
boiled cider, a little at a time, and just before serving set 
the bowl containing this mixture in a kettle of hot water, but 
do not boil. — [Mrs. P. A. D., Ill 

Plain Apple Sauce 

Pare, core and quarter 8 or 10 medium sized tart apples. 
Put them in a granite or porcelain lined vessel, add about 
2 cups water, and cook until tender. Then add 1 cup sugar 
and cook 10 minutes longer, stirring occasionally to prevent 
scorching. Press through a colander, add a dash of cinnamon, 
and if served hot, add 1 tablesp butter. A few thin shavings 
of lemon peel may be cooked with the apples. — [Mrs. A. C, 
W. Va. 

Boiled Cider Apple Sauce 

Pare, core and quarter 1 lb of "sweets," if you have them. 
If not, use any good sweet apples. I do not weigh or measure 
for this sauce, but pour over the apples the boiled cider 
reduced with a little water until it has a mild and pleasant 
flavor. Add sugar to taste and cook very slowly until apples 
can be pierced with a splint. Put up in cans or jars. It will 
keep nicely even if not sealed air tight. — [Mrs. G. G., N. Y. 




PRIDE OF THE GARDEN. 




STRAWBERRIES OP A NO. I QUALITY. 



H^P 


^^P^?2 




f ""r^^''*-v 


1 «.c?ri4^, \^^ 






^L " Jl^' ':^^ 


1 



CHOICE CONCORD GRAPES FROM ILLINOIS. 



PUDDING BAKING HINTS 129 



Cottage pudding is nice served with flavored and sweetened 
whipped cream. — [Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

The addition of 2 or S tablesp of cocoanut to a bread pud- 
ding is a great improvement. — [E. T., Va. 

A nice dark sauce for cottage pudding is made by adding to 
ihe sauce a little cocoa or chocolate. — [E. L., Neb. 

Sake cottage pudding in square shallow pans, and serve 
Ue warm with any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. L. S., O. 

Instead of grating potatoes for puddings I put them through 
the food cutter with the fine cutter on. — [B. A. R., Mass. 

Delicious pudding can be made by following the recipes 
which come with your favorite cereal or breakfast food. — < 
[A. G., Mass. 

When strawberries are in season I add some of these 
mashed to the liquid sauce that I serve with cottage pudding. 
I — [Mrs K. R., Ore. 

I always place a steamed pudding in a hot oven for a few 
minutes to dry off a little. Try it and see how you like it. — i 
[Mrs. M. J. Li., Mich. 

By adding some grated chocolate or cocoa to any favorite 
recipe for cornstarch pudding a nice chocolate pudding is 
obtained. — [A. G., Mass. 

Rice pudding if baked just right ought to be creamy, but if 
it is baked too long it will whey off, and will not be as satis- 
factory. — [Mrs. L. H. C, Ct. 

I sometimes add 1 cup stewed prunes chopped fine to my 
favorite chocolate cornstarch pudding, and find it is very nice 
for a change. — [Mrs. P. E. P., Wash. 

When making suet or plum pudding try using hot black cof- 
fee in place of milk, buttermilk or water. Re-steam left-over 
pudding as wanted. — [Mrs. O. W. S., Wis. 

Long boiling improves Indian pudding. I sometimes add to 
the plain pudding for the sake of variety 1 cup raisins and % 
cup chopped suet. — [Mrs. S. L. H., Mass. 

Green corn pudding should bake slowly, and it is best tB 
keep the dish covered at first, afterwards removing the cover 
and allowing the pudding to brown lightly. — [M. B.. 111. 



130 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Baked Indian pudding should be baked in a slow oven and 
may be served hot or cold. I serve it with a sauce made of 
Byrup and butter heated together. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

When making a corn pudding I always beat the whites of 
the eggs and fold them in last. I cover the top of the pudding 
with cracker crumbs and dot with bits of butter. — [B. S., Pa. 

When making fruit or suet pudding I always dredge the fruit 
and suet thoroughly with flour, and put them in the mixture 
last. Treated in this way they will not settle to the bottom. — i 
[Mrs. L. D., Ore. 

Tapioca pudding is good baked with any kind of fruit, or 
canned fruit or berries. Place the prepared tapioca and fruit 
in pudding dish in alternate layers, sweeten, and bake until 
done. — [A. G., Mass. 

The suet used for pudding or cake should always be nice 
and fresh'. Kidney suet is best, being dry and crumby. Care- 
fully remove skin and fibre and chop very fine. Keep as cold 
as possible. — [A. G., Mass. 

When making bread pudding it is a saving of time and labor 
to run the bread through a meat chopper. The bread should 
be crisp. If It is not it can be made crisp by placing in a 
warm oven a few minutes and then cooling. — [A. G., Mass. 

When I make suet or plum pudding I divide the dough in 
half and steam in two pans, serving one pan of pudding while 
hot, with a cold sauce, and reheating the other after a day 
or two, or when needed, serving with a hot sauce. — [A. B.. Me. 

Various flavors may be added to apple sauce by sometimes 
adding a little of either fresh or canned blackberries, or 
raspberries, and when the apples are very insipid, try adding 
a little lemon or orange peel, a few whole cloves, or a few 
raisins. — [F. L. B. R.„ Ct. 

Lard or cottolene cans make good molds for steamed pud- 
ding. Butter the molds well, fill no more than two-thirds 
full, so as to allow space to swell, and cover the can closely. 
If the cover fits too closely, place a piece of cheese cloth over 
the can, allowing the edges to extend a little over the sides, and 
then put on the cover, which will insure a tight fit. Place the 
mold in a larger kettle of boiling water and keep the water 
boiling vigorously all the time. If it stops boiling the pudding 
Is apt to become heavy. Have boiling water enough in the ket- 
tle to almost come up to the top of the mold, and cover the 
kettle securely. — [A. G., Mass. 




Soups, Stews and Qhowdeps 

ECIPES for soups and stews vary so much 
in ^niall details that it may safely be said 
that no two cooks make any soup or stew 
alike. Nevertheless, there are some funda- 
mental rules that cover this culinary branch, 
as well as all others. The following recipes 
present a nice variety, and any of them may be slightly 
altered to suit individual tastes. Good, palatable and 
nourishing soups and stews are as inexpensive as they are 
easy to prepare, and should be served frequently, especially 
during cold weather. When properly prepared they will 
not be refused by anyone blessed with normal tastes and 
hearty appetite. To say that your family does not like 
soup is to confess that you are not quite "up" to making 
soup as palatable as it might be, and this is a lack which 
the following recipes will help anyone to overcome. 

Vegetable Sonp I 

To 3 pts water add 3 large fresh tomatoes or an equals 
amount of canned tomatoes, 1 large potato, peeled and sliced, I 
small carrot, peeled and cut very fine, a few tender cabbage 
leaves chopped fine. 2 small onions cut. fine, salt to taste, 1 
heaping tablesp drippings or butter, and % teasp mixed celery 
and coriander seeds, with 1 bay leaf and 1 small pod red pep- 
per. One or 2 stalks of celery may be added. If lik^d. Boil 
until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, adding a little boil- 
ing water occasionally, if necessary. — [Mrs. A. B. C, Tex. 

Vegetable Soup n 

Put about % or % cup of left-over meat gravy or fryings 
together with a little left-over meat, if you have it, in a soup 
kettle with % doz onions, cut fine and browned in a little drip- 
pings, and add 2 qts water, 1 cup tomatoes, salt to taste, %' 
small, tender cabbage, 2 small carrots, 1 rutabaga, 1 parsnip, 
and 3 potatoes, all cut fine. Let boil gently about 1% hours, 
adding a little more boiling water, if needed. Dumplings or 
noodles can be boiled in this soup 20 minutes before serving, 
or the soup can be slightly thickened with a little flour, stirred 
smooth in a little cold water. — [Mrs. W. J., Wis. 

131 



132 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Vegetable Soup m 

Put on a shank soup bone of about 2 lbs in cold water enough 
to cover, and boil until all marrow and juice are extracted. 
Then remove meat and strain the broth through a wire sieve, 
adding hot water to it to make about 3 qts. Return broth to 
the fire and add 1 onion, 1 carrot, 2 potatoes, 2 tomatoes, a 
few crisp tender leaves of cabbage, all chopped fine, 2 tablesp 
rice, .half teasp celery seed, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
until all the ingredients are thoroughly done. — [B. W., Wash. 

Tomato Soup I 

To 1 qt fresh or canned tomatoes add 1 pt boiling water, and 
when the tomatoes are soft, strain through a colander, return 
to the fire and thicken with a little white flour or graham flour. 
When the soup has boiled up thoroughly, season with salt to 
taste, then put in 1 level teasp soda, and while it is foaming, 
pour in 1 qt hot milk. Add a generous lump of butter, and 
serve hot with oyster crackers. Do not let the soup boil after 
the milk has been added. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 

Tomato Soup n 

To 2 qts water add 2 medium sized potatoes, peeled and sliced 
or cut in small cubes, 1 onion, chopped fine, 1 cup tomato 
juice, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, mixed with 1 
tablesp flour. Cook until tender. Do not add the butter and 
flour until about 15 minutes before removing from the fire.— - 
[Mrs. li. W., Ind. 

Tomato Soup m 

To 2 large potatoes, peeled and sliced, add 3 onions and 6 
tomatoes, peeled and sliced. Boil all together in about 3 
pts water, until the potatoes are soft, then mash all through 
a, sieve and add 1 qt hot milk, butter the size of an egg, and 1 
tablesp flour mixed to a thin paste with a little cold water. 
Season with pepper and salt and let boil until the flour is thor- 
oughly cooked. — [E. M. R., Cal. 

Cream of Potato Soup 

For each qt soup required, allow 3 medium sized potatoes, 
peeled and cut in slices, and cooked in sufficient water to 
cover. When tender, rub through a colander, then return to 
the fire and add 3 cups hot milk, a lump of butter, and salt to 
taste. When the soup has come to a boil, add 1 tablesp flour 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and boil a few minutes 
longer, and serve. A slice of onion or a stalk of celery may be 
simmered in the soup for a few minutes to flavor it, if liked, 
and then removed. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 



POTATO AND BEAN SOUPS 133 



Potato and Celery Soup 

Boil 3 potatoes until soft, mash, then add 1 pt hot milk and 1 
stalk celery trimmed and cut fine, 1 teasp chopped onions, half 
tablesp flour blended with 1 tablesp butter and salt to taste. 
Let boil until the onion and celery are done. — [Mrs. 0. E. G., 
Ariz. 

Potato and Onion Soup 

To 3 medium sized pptatoes, peeled and sliced, add 3 small 
onions, sliced, % cup rice and 3 pts water. When done strain 
through a colander, add a lump of butter, and salt and pepper 
to taste, and serve with crisp crackers. — [B. O., Kan. 

Cream of Pea Soup » 

Drain the liquor from 1 qt canned peas, then add to the 
peas 2 cups clear, cold water and 1 slice of onion, with salt to 
taste. Cook about 10 minutes, then strain and add 2 cups 
scalded milk, thickened with 2 tablesp flour blended with 2 
tablesp butter. — [L. C, Pa. 

Split Pea Soup 

Boil some beef bones in water in which corned beef or salt 
pork has been boiled, but be careful that it is not too salty. 
When done, drain out the beef bones and add to the broth 1 
qt split peas, and let boil until soft, after which mash through 
a colander and return to the fire, with 1 onion, 1 small turnip 
and 1 carrot, chopped very fine. Boil until done. When' 
serving, drop some croutons in each plate.-^[B. B., Pa. 

Bean Soup 

In the morning put 1 cup dried beans to soak in cold water 
with % teasp soda, for 1 hour, then parboil the beans in the 
same water, and rinse thoroughly in cold water, after which 
return to the fire with 1 qt clear, cold water and cook slowly 
until soft, then add 1 or 2 cups tomatoes and cook % hour, 
after which add a little butter and pepper, and salt, and a 
very little sugar, to taste. — [B. O., Kan. 

German Bean Soup 

Boil 2 lbs lean meat from the rump in 2 qts water. Skim 
when it begins to boil and then let it simmer 2% hours. Add 
1 carrot, 1 onion, % small parsnip and a few stalks of celery, 
chopped very fine, and 3 cloves, 6 allspice, a small piece of red 
pepper pod, (tie spices in a cheese cloth bag) and boil 2 hours 



134 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



longer, seasoning with salt to taste. Soak 2 cups dried beans 
in cold water over night, then pour off the water and boil in 
fresh water 1 hour, then pour off the water again and add 
boiling hot water enough to cook the beans until they are soft, 
but not soft enough to fall to pieces. When soft drain them 
through a colander, add them to the soup prepared as directed 
above, and boil all together % hour. — [N. P., N. H. 

Baked Bean Sonp 

To 1 Vz cups cold baked beans, add 4 cups boiling water, 1 
smali onion cut fine, and scant % teasp celery salt. Cook 
about 20 minutes, then rub through a sieve and add % cup 
tomato catsup with salt to taste. Melt and blend 1 tablesp 
butter with -one tablesp flour, and stir this into boiling soup. 
Serve ^^ith' toasted cubes of bread. — [Mrs. H. A. D., Mass. 

Cream of Com Soup 

Takfi 1 doz ears tender green corn, slit each row of kernels 
thro'isti the middle with a sharp knife, then with the back of 
the i^uife scrape out the pulp, being careful not to get any of 
the hull with it. Add 1 pt water to the corn and boil about 15 
minutes, then add 1 pt scalded milk with 1 teasp flour mixed 
to E thin paste with a little cold water, and season with salt, 
pepijer and butter. Two minutes before serving, add the 
beaten yolks of 1 or 2 eggs. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Green Corn Sonp 

To clear chicken or beef broth add com cut from six ears, I 
beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and a little flour mixed with a 
little water. Boil about 5 or 10 minutes. It is best not to add 
the egg until just before serving, as 1 or 2 minutes' boiling is 
suflScient for the egg. — [Mrs. D. M. W., 111. 

Cabbage Soup 

Chop fine % head tender white cabbage and let boil % hour 
in 3 pt water, by which time the water will be nearly cooked 
away. Drain out the remaining water, then add 1 pt boiling 
milT^, % cup cream, butter size of an egg, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Serve with crisp crackers. — [Mrs. F. F. R., Vt. 

Cream of Onion Sonp 

t'iit 3 tablesp butter in a frying pan and slice in 6 onions. 
Stii well until they begin to cook, then cover and set on the 
baC'x of the range where they will simmer for % hour, being 
careful not to burn. Then add 1 tablesp flour to the onions, stir 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUPS 136 



constantly for about 2 or 3 minutes, and then turn in 1 qt 
scalded milk and boil 15 minutes, after which, strain through 
a sieve, return to the fire, add 1 cup cream, salt and pepper to 
taste, and the beaten yolk of 1 egg. Boil 3 minutes longer, and 
serve at once. If you have no cream, use 1 tablesp butter 
instead. — [N. P., N. H. 

Cream of Carrot Soup 

Boil 1 pt of carrots until tender and then rub through a 
sieve. Put 1 tablesp butter in a sauce pan with 1 tablesp flour 
and stir until smooth, then add 1 qt hot chickeai broth or milk. 
Let boll 5 minutes, then add the strained carrots, and season 
with pepper and salt. Just before serving, add 1 pt rich milk 
and the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs, with a little chopped pars- 
ley. — [Miss R. F., Ct. 

Asparagus Soup 

Boil a good sized bunch of asparagus, trimmed and cut in 
small pieces in water enough to cover and when tender, mash 
through a sieve. Add to the water in which asparagus was 
cooked, 1 cup milk, a lump of butter and salt to taste. Then 
add the strained asparagus, let all come to a boil, and thicken 
with 1 teasp cornstarch mixed with a little cold water. — [Mrs. 
C. B., Pa. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Trim and cut celery in small pieces and boil in a little salted 
water until tender. Melt 1 tablesp butter in a saucepan, add 2 
tablesp flour, stir until light brown, then pour In slowly, stir- 
ring all the while, milk according to the amount of soup you 
wish to prepare. Boil a few minutes, then add the drained 
celery and serve at once with crisp crackers, or dice of toast. 
Odds and ends of celery can be used up to good advantage in 
this way. — [Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Cream of Rutabaga Soup 

Mash 3 cups of boiled rutabaga, stir in 2 qts hot milk, and 
when boiling add 1 onion cut fine, 1 heaping tablesp butter, 
melted and blended with 1 tablesp flour. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Ham and Vegetable Soup 

After all the good meat has been sliced off the ham, put the 
bone on to boil in plenty of water, and when the meat which 
adheres to it begins to get tender, add 3 or 4 small carrots cut 
fine, % head tender cabbage, cut fine, and a few potatoes, 
sliced. Cook until the vegetables are tender. — [Mrs. A. P, 
Neb. 



136 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Beef Soup 

The best cuts for beef soup are from the rump, shoulder or 
plate, the latter being the cheaper grades of the sides and ftank. 
Oxtails also make a strong, rich "soup, and lean meat is better 
than fat meat, greasy soup being unwholesome. Always cook 
a few beef or veal bones with the soup, and a little piece of beef 
liver the size of an egg imparts a delicious flavor, which, how- 
ever, cannot be recognized as liver. Soup requires long and 
slow boiling to extract the juice from the meat. If boiled too 
hard, the meat will be hard and tough and will not yield its 
juices. Put the meat and bone on with cold water, and when 
it comes to a boil, skim carefully and do not add salt until 
after you are through skimming. For 1 lb meat, allow 1 qt 
water, 1 small onion, a small stalk of celery, sprig of parsley, 
and 1 teasp rice may be added, if liked, or 1 small potato. 
Oxtails should be chopped into pieces and boiled 4 or 5 hours. 
If it should become necessary to add water to the soup while 
boiling, add boiling water, as the addition of lukewarm or cold 
water will stop the boiling and spoil the flavor. Be very care- 
ful not to over-salt. Before serving, strain the soup through 
a fine sieve. This soup is nice to serve clear, or to use as a 
foundation stock for other soups. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Beef and Tomato Soap 

Boil a good soup bone in about 1 gal cold water, with salt to 
taste, until the meat is nearly tender. Then add 1 pt tomatoes, 
% cup rice and 1 pt sliced potatoes, with 2 or 3 stalks of celery 
and a small onion, cut fine. — [B. O., Kan. 

Veal Soup 

Boil a veal bone, about 3 hours, with potatoes, celery, onions 
and any other vegtable desired, but nothing acid, like toma- 
toes. When the vegetables are tender, strain the soup and let 
It come to a boil, and when ready to serve, add 1 pt milk and 
2 well-beaten eggs. — [A. H. B., Mich. 

Mutton Soup with Tapioca 

Put about 3 lbs mutton with as much bone in 4 qts of water, 
and let simmer at least 5 hours. Then strain and cool, remove 
layer of fat, and return broth to the Are. Add 1 onion, 2 small 
carrots, 1 small turnip and 2 stalks celery, all cut fine, and boil 
until vegetables are very tender. Have ready 4 tablesp tapioca 
soaked in cold water, stir this gradually into the soup, and boil 
18 minutes longer. — [M. W. W., O. 



CHICKEN AND MOCK OYSTER SOUPS 137 

Chicken and Bean Soup 

Clean and cut up a nice fat hen, and put on to boil in plenty- 
cold water. Parboil 1 qt white beans, adding % teasp soda 
after they have boiled about 5 minutes. Then drain and add the 
beans to the chicken, and boil until both are tender. Season 
to taste. — [Mrs. S. O., N. D. 

Chicken and Bice Sonp 

Cut a nice fat chicken In small pieces, cover well with cold 
water and add salt and 1 cup rice. Boil slowly until done, add- 
ing more water as needed. When nearly done, add a few noo- 
dles or dumplings and boil until done. — [Mrs. W. H. L., Ky. 

Giblet Soup 

The head, neck, feet, heart, stomach, lungs and liver of a 
chicken are often thrown away. If properly cleansed and pre- 
pared, they make a nourishing soup. Split the heads, pick off 
a'll feathers, and lay in salt water. Pour boiling water over the 
feet and pull ofC the skin. Wash the heart, clean stomach, 
lungs, liver and neck in cold water. For three sets giblets 
allow 3 pts water, and simmer gently 3 hours. When cold it 
will be like jelly. The soup should be salted to taste and fla- 
vored with a few peppercorns. — [I. A. G., N. Y. 

Five Minute Soup 

Cut some stale slices of bread into small dice. Heat some 
butter In a frying pan, and when hot fry the diced bread in this, 
and when nicely browned add hot milk according to the quan- 
tity of bread. Season with pepper and salt and serve as soon 
as it has boiled up once. This soup can be prepared in 5 min- 
utes — hence the name. — [I. A. G., N. Y. 

Salsify or Mock Oyster Sonp 

Wash and slice thin, enough salsify to make 1 pt and boil in 
3 pts water 20 minutes, then add 1 qt scalded milk, 2 table;^p> 
butter blended with 1 tablesp flour and pepper and salt to 
taste. Serve with oyster crackers. — [Mrs. W. G. McH., Kan. 

Bivel Milk Soup 

Put on to boil 1 qt or more of milk, with a little water. Pre- 
pare egg rivels by taking some flour, a pinch of salt and 1 egg, 
and stirring them together until the mass forms into little 
"rivels." Add these to the boiling milk, salt to taste, and let 
boll until the rivels are done. — [Mrs. L. M., O. 



138 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Buttermilk Soup 

Boil % doz medium sized potatoes in salted water to cover, 
and when done, pour off the water, mash the potatoes and add 
1 qt buttermilk thickened with 2 tablesp flour. Let boil up, 
then add a lump of butter and serve hot. — [Mrs. L. M., O. 

Fruit Soup 

To Vz gal boiling water add % lb seedless raisins, % lb 
prunes, stones removed, % lb dried apples, 2 tablesp sago, 1 
cup sugar, and the juice of 1 lemon. Cook 1 hour. — [M. W., 
Wis. 

Elderberry Soup with Dumplings 

Boil 2 qts carefully picked and washed elderberries in 2%' 
qts water about % hour, then run through a sieve and boil 
again with 1 qt sliced apples. Add % lb sugar to every lb ber- 
ries and thicken with 1 tablesp sago to every qt soup. In this 
soup boil dumplings made by the following recipe: Stir 1 
tablesp butter over the fire with 1 cup flour and 1 cup milk, 
until it loosens from the pan. Let cool and then stir in yolks 
of 2 eggs, a pinch of salt and cinnamon, a little grated lemon 
rind, 1 teasp sugar and the beaten white of 1 egg. Mix well, 
and with a tablesp cut off little dumplings the size of a walnut 
and boil 10 minutes in the soup. These dumplings can be used 
in any fruit soup. — [Mrs. H. B., la. 

Oatmeal Soup with Currants 

Boil % cup steel-cut oatmeal or rolled oats with % cup dried 
and cleaned currants in plenty of water until the meal and fruit 
are done, then add piece butter size of a small egg, a few dashes 
of cinnamon, salt to taste, sugar to make it sweet, and just 
before serving, % cup sweet cream. I sometimes add a few 
cooked, dried apples. — [Mrs. G. A., Minn. 

Peanut Soup 

Melt 1 large tablesp butter in a double boiler, then stir in 
1 teasp flour and 1 pt milk, and when very hot add pounded 
meats of ,1 pt peanuts. Cook 15 minutes longer, add pepper 
and salt to taste, and serve hot. — [B. G. S., Me. 

Xoodles for Soup 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg, stir thick with 
flour, and when cool, stir in 1 beaten egg, then thicken with 
flour, as stiff as possible. Roll out very thin and cut fine. These 
noodles do not need to dry. They should be boiled in the soup 
about 20 or 25 minutes. — [Mrs. G. N.' P., Kan. 



NOODLES AND DUMPLINGS FOR SOUPS 139 



German Noodles 

Beat up 1 egg with 1 tablesp water, add some salt, and ttien 
work In all the flour possible. Turn out on floured board, roll 
very thin, cut into pieces and roll each piece as thin as a piece 
of paper. Let these pieces dry, but not long enough to become 
brittle. After they have dried, lay the pieces one on top of the 
other, roll up, and with a sharp knife, cut very thin slices from 
this roll. Toss the noodles lightly to separate them, let them 
dry, and store in well-covered tins or jars. — [A. G., Mass. 

Egg Xoodles 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sweet milk, a generous pinch 
of salt, and flour enough to make a stiff dough, sifted with 2 
level teasp baking powder. Roll thin like piecrust, and cut in 
strips like shoe strings. These are fine cooked in beef or 
chicken broth. — [Mrs. H. D. K. T., Minn. 

Croutons for Soup 

Trim slices of stale bread, cut into small cubes about % inch 
square, and brown in a moderate oven, or fry brown in hot 
butter. Especially nice to serve with chicken broth, bean soup 
or split pea soup.' — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 

Meat Stew with Dumplings 

Cut about 2 lbs of any kind of fresh meat into small pieces, 
and cook in 2 qts water with salt to taste. If the meat is very 
lean add 2 slices salt pork fat. After cooking 1 hour, add 4 
potatoes and 2 onions, sliced. When these are tender, add 
dumplings or noodles, and when done, serve at once. — [Mrs. 
S. P., Mass. 

Beef Stew 

Take about 7 or 8 lbs of beef from a low-priced cut — the 
lower part of the leg — and boil in enough water to cover, until 
the meat parts from the bone. Remove the bone, skim off the 
fat, and then add 8 potatoes, 1 small turnip and 4 onions, cut 
fine. When nearly done, add dumplings made from 1 pt flour, 
a little salt, Vz teasp soda, and sour milk enough to malie a 
stiff batter that will drop from the spoon. Cook about 12 or 15 
minutes. — [M. L. Q., Me. 

Beef liiver Stew 

Into a frying pan put a generous tablesp of lard or drippings, 
and when smoking hot put in about 1 lb beef liver, sliced and 1 
small onion, minced fine, and sprinkle with salt. Let fry until 
brown on both sides, then just cover with boiling water, cover 



140 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

pan, and let boil gently about 5 minutes. Thicken the gravy to 
the proper consistency with a little flour and cold water stirred 
together. Serve with toasted cubes of bread. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Corned Beef Stew with Snet Dmnplings 

If the corned beef pieces are thin, they should be rolled up 
and tied with cord. Put the beef on to cook in hot water, and 
boil until tender, then add suet dumplings made as follows: To 
1 % pts flour add 1 teasp baking powder, 1 scant teasp salt, and 
% pt suet, chopped very fine. Stir in enough cold water to 
make a stiff dough. Cut off small balls with a spoon and drop 
into boiling stew and boil about % hour. — [Mrs. S, E. B., Ind. 

New England Stew 

Boil slowly 3 lbs corned beef about 2 hours, then add 1 qt 
potatoes peeled, and if large, cut in half, 1 qt turnips, peeled 
and cut to the same size as the potatoes, 1 pt onions, cut in 
halves, or quarters, 1 qt carrots, scraped and cut in medium 
sized pieces, a small head of crisp, tender cabbage, cut in 
eighths, some parsnips, and any other vegetable that is liked^ 
season with salt and pepper to taste, and boil until all the veg- 
etables are well done. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Fresh Pork Stew 

Chop 2 onions and fry them a nice brown, then add 2 cloves, 
a very little chopped sage, 1 tablesp vinegar, 1 cup pork roast 
gravy, a little pepper and salt, and the remains of cold roast 
pork, cut into small pieces. Simmer gently % hour. Thicken 
the gravy with 1 teasp flour, blended with a little cold water, 
serve with cubes of toasted bread. — [N. S. C, Gal. 

Salt Pork Stew 

Fry 10 generous slices of salt pork until light brown on both 
sides, then slice in 4 or 5 onions, and when all are brown, add Z 
qts hot water, 10 or 12 potatoes, peeled and cut In small pieces, 
and 1 small turnip, cut fine. Season to taste with salt and pep- 
per, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. Carrots 
or parsnips may be added if liked. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Irish Stew 

Cut Into small pieces any kind of fresh meat or chicken (just 
left-overs will do), and put over the Are with a little more 
than enough water to cover, adding salt to taste, a generous 
lump of butter, and a few potatoes cut In small pieces. Cook 
until the potatoes are tender, then add 2 teasp flour, stirred 
smooth with a little milk, for every qt of stew. Boil about 5 
minutes longer. — [Mrs. W. W. P.. Okla. 



MEAT STEWS AND CLAM CHOWDER 141 



Picnic Stew 

This Is a great southern picnic dish. Two kinds of meat are 
required — salt pork, and either beef or chicken, preferably 
Chicken. Always allow half the quantity of salt pork to either 
chicken or beef. To 2 lbs meat add 1 lb pork and 3 qts water, 
and let boil 3 hours, then add 1 qt sliced potatoes, 1 qt butter 
beans, 3 onions, 1 qt tomatoes, 1 qt milk corn cut from the 
cobs, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Boil 
and stir frequently until the meat and vegetables are thor- 
oughly done and the stew is of the consistency of thick cream. 
Serve with crisp soda crackers. For picnics this stew, in more 
generous quantities, is generally made over a gypsy Are in a 
large iron kettle, and the cook begins his preparations 10 or 12 
hours before the stew is to be served. — [Mrs. H. Li., Va. 

Mock Clam Chowder 

Put 5 or 6 slices of fat salt pork in a hot sauce pan and try 
them out thoroughly, then remove the crisp pieces of pork and 
add to the tried out fat 5 potatoes and 5 onions, chopped coarse 
with about % cup water, and let simmer % hour. Then add 
1% cups scalded milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Just 
before serving, drop in the crisp pieces of tried out salt pork, 
and serve with crisp saltine crackers. — [Mrs. C. J., Ct. 

Com Chowder 

Fry 3 slices salt pork and 2 onions sliced thin, and when 
brown add 2 qts water. When this bolls add % doz potatoes, 
peeled and sliced, and 1 qt can of corn. Let boil about 20 min- 
utes, then add 1 pt scalded sweet milk. Season to taste with 
salt and butter, and serve at once, with crisp crackers. — [B. H. 
K., Me. 

Potato Chowder 

Fry until crisp 4 or 5 slices of salt pork, then slice in 3 
onions, and when these are fried light brown, add 5 potatoes, 
sliced, with water to cover. Cover and cook till the potatoes 
are done. Just before serving add 1 pt hot milk, and serve 
with crisp crackers. — [Mrs. H. A. D., Mass. 

Egg Chowder 

Fry 2 or 3 slices of salt pork till quite brown, then add 4 oP 
5 potatoes, sliced, and hot water to cover. When the potatoes 
are done, add 1 pt Hot milk, and slice in 5 hard boiled eggs. 
Let boll up once, add a generous lump of butter, with salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve at once. — [F. L. R., Ct. 



142 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

In making vegetable soup, it is best to parboil any vegetables 
of strong taste, before adding them to the soup. — [A. G., Mass. 

Never pour cold water on beans that have once been heated 
or boiled, as that hardens the shells. — [B. B., Pa. 

Nice soups can be made from left-overs, such as meat gravy, 
potatoes, any vegetables and scraps of meat, by adding water 
and boiling together until well blended. — [A. G., Mass. 

Greasy soup is unpalatable and unwholesome. Before add- 
ing vegetables to the soup, let it get cold. The grease will rise 
to the top and harden, and can then be easily removed. — [A. G., 

Mass. 



[PASTE ADDlTIONAIi RECIPES HEBEJ 




Fish, SheU=Pish and ©pustaeeans 

ITCHEN lore has it that fish is good brain 
food. This is probably owing to the fact 
that fish contains all the elements of meat 
in an easily digested form, and is, therefore, 
more easily assimilated by the system and 
consequently especially good for people 
doing brain work or following other sedentary occupations. 
As a matter of fact, good fish properly prepared is always 
wholesome food for old and young, and particularly so in 
spring, after a season of "heavy" eating, as is usual in win- 
ter. The observance of Lent is therefore to be recom- 
mended, even to those who do not consider it a religious 
duty. The following recipes offer a nice variety in the way 
of fish food. 

To Can Fish 

Clean, scrape and wash flsh tliorouglily in plenty fresh water. 
Cut into pieces of convenient size, but do not remove large 
bones or skin — only flns, head, tail, etc. Have in readiness 
glass fruit jars perfectly clean and dry, with new rubbers 
and covers to fit air tight, put a little salt in the toottom of the 
jars, dry the pieces of fish with a clean towel, then pack in a 
layer of fish, fill the crevices with salt, put in more flsh and 
salt, and so continue until the jar Is full, using no water. 
Pack down as solidly as possible. Screw the lids on lightly, 
then put the cans in a boiler the same as for canning fruit 
(see rules for canning), pour in cold water to within an inch 
of the tops of the cans, cover the boiler, bring the water slowly 
to a boil, and let boil steadily 3 or 4 hours. Do not let the 
water stop boiling, and do not let any steam escape. When 
done lift out one can at a time, screw the covers down as 
tightly as possible, and after all the covers are screwed down 
tight, return the cans to the boiler, pour in more boiling water, 
so as to fully cover the cans, then cover the boiler, and set it 
away to get cold. "When cold take out each can carefully 
and turn each one on its head. Leave them standing thus 
about an hour, and if there is no leakage, brush melted paraf- 
flne around the edge of the lids, and set away in a cold, dry 
and dark place. I also can meat this way, removing the bones 

143 



144 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and adding spices to suit. Be sure to boil long enough, and be 
sure the cans are air tight. Last year I canned 70 qt jars of 
beef in two days, and did not lose a can. By simply heating It 
up, I can have fresh meat or fish any time. — [Mrs. A. A., 
Wash. 

To Salt and Smoke Fish 

Cut off the heads, tails and fins, but do not scale the fish. 
Split them along the backbone, and scrape them clean inside, 
but do not use water. Pack the fish solidly, using plenty of salt, 
in a good clean keg, or a large glass jar, put a clean cloth on 
top, an inverted plate and a weight, and set away in a cool 
place for 3 or 4 days. Then remove from the brine, wipe each 
piece of fish clean, and pack in another clean keg or jar with 
more salt, and cover and weight as before. The fish should 
always be well under brine. 

To smoke fish first clean them as directed above, pack them 
away in salt, and let them remain there about 48 hours, after 
which wipe dry, string 2 halves on a cord, so that they can 
be hung over a stick, and smoke in barrel or box, if you 
have no smoke house (directions how to make a barrel or box 
smoker are printed in the department of recipes for butcher- 
ing time), and smoke about 2 or 3 days. — [Mrs. C. B., Minn. 

To Remove Skin and Bones from Fish 

To remove skin cut off the fins along the back, and then a 
strip of skin less than % inch wide down the full length 
of the back. Dip the fingers in salt, then loosen skin below 
the head and draw it off from one side by pulling gently with 
one hand and pushing with the back of a silver knife held 
in the other hand. To bone a fish begin at the tail on one 
side. Slip the knife in between the skin and the bone and 
carefully cleave the flesh from the bone its entire length. — 
[J. H. 

General Ways of Cooking Fish 

Fish may be boiled, baked, broiled, or fried. Red-blooded 
fish, as salmon, bluefish and mackerel, in which the fat is 
distributed throughout the fish, is better boiled, not fried in 
fat, but white-blooded fish, as cod, haddock, and halibut, in 
which the fat is concentrated in the liver, may be fried or 
baked. Salmon, which contains a large proportion of fat, is 
best cooked in boiling water. When the white-blooded varie- 
ties are cooked in water they should be served with sauces, 
and when baked they should be basted often or they will be 
dry and tasteless. All fish should be thoroughly cooked, but 



HOW TO FRESHEN SALTED FISH 145 



if cooked too long fish loses it flavor. When, boiling fish put it 
on in warm water, and add 1 teasp salt and 1 tablesp vinegar 
or lemon juice to each 2 qts water. If the fish were put on 
in cold water the juices would be extracted, and putting it on 
in boiling water causes the skin to contract and crack. 

Fish, that, when dressed, presents a flat surface, particularly 
those varieties in which oil is distributed throughout the 
flesh, as shad, bluefish and mackerel, are very nice broiled 
over a clear hot fire, but not too hot, or they will become 
hard and indigestible. Before broiling rub well with butter 
or oil. Pish may be baked whole or in large thick slices, and 
white-blooded fish should be basted frequently. Shad, halibut, 
salmon, bluefish, white fish and bass are very nice when baked. 
Baked fish is nice stuffed with any preferred dressing, but 
not too full. Cut gashes in the upper side of the fish and 
insert strips of salt pork. 

Small fish are most suitable for frying. After cleaning, 
washing and drying, season with salt and peppef, roll in 
flour, then in beaten egg, and then in bread or cracker 
crumbs. See that every part of the fish is well covered with 
the egg and crumbs dressing, which forms a fat-proof cover- 
ing. The fat should be smoking hot and kept hot until the 
fish is done. After removing from the frying pan lay the fish 
on several layers of salted paper, to absorb the fat. — [J. H. 

To Freshen Salted Pish 

Cover the salted fish with plenty fresh, cold water, and put 
it on the back of the range to heat very gradually, and when 
the water is hot, pour it off, put on fresh cold water, and let 
it heat gradually once more. Then pour off the hot water, 
remove the skin and bones from the fish, and flake it with 
the fingers or a fork. Salt fish should never be boiled hard. — > 
always let it simmer slowly. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Some Codfish Ways 

For boiled codflsh select a nice thick piece of salted oodfisU 
and freshen it according to directions given elsewhere. Cover 
it for the third time with clear, cold water, and let it simmer 
slowly 3 or 4 hours, according to the size and thickness of 
the fish. Serve with butter gravy and baked potatoes. To 
make codfish balls use the freshened and flaked fish, or some 
left-over pieces of boiled fish, and mix with the same quan- 
tity of potatoes — raw potatoes sliced fine if the fish is raw, on 
mashed potatoes if the fish is boiled. If raw, boll until tender, 
then add 1 or 2 well-beaten eggs, a little piece of butter, and 
a very little cream or milk, with flour enough to shape into 
small balls. Fry brown on both sides In deep, hot fat. A' 
very nice pudding can be made in the same way, by leaving 
out the flour and adding a little more eggs and milk. — [E. P., 



146 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Broiled Codfish 

Cut one-inch slices from the thick part of the codfish, and 
soak them in fresi water to remove the extra salt. Boil until 
half done and then broil over a hot Are. Serve with small 
cubes of salt pork browned to a crisp. Potatoes "boiled In 
their jackets" are nice to serve with this fish dinner. — [P. L. 
B., Ct. 

Codfish lioaf 

Flake 2 cups oold, boiled codfish very fine. Prepare an 
equal quantity of highly seasoned mashed potatoes and mix 
well together while both are hot. Fry 1 tablesp minced 
onion in 2 tablesp butter until it yellows, then add 1 teasp 
mustard, a dash of cayenne pepper, and 1 tablesp lemon juice. 
Stir well, then add this sauce by degrees to the fish and potato 
mixture. Pour into a well buttered pudding dish, and bake 
i% hour. — [L. J. P., Ore. 

Codfish with Vegetables 

Flake a nice piece of cod, freshened and boiled, put a 
layer in a buttered pudding dish, then a layer of mashed pota- 
toes, then a layer of mashed parsnips, another layer of fish, 
and so on until all the fish and vegetables have been used; 
cover the top with cracker crumbs, dot with butter, pour in 
a little hot milk, and bake until the top Is brown. Serve 
hot with egg sauce. This is a nice way to use up left-over 
fish, potatoes and vegetables. — [Mrs. B. F. P., Mass. 

Creamed Codfish 

To 1 lb codfish, freshened and flaked, add 1 tablesp butter 
creamed with 2 tablesp flour, 1 pt milk, and 1 cup boiling 
water. Let simmer slowly and when done serve with mashed 
potatoes. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Codfish Fritters 

Boil some freshened and flaked codfish slowly for 10 or 15 
minutes, in water barely enough to cover, then strain dry and 
cool. Make a griddle batter of milk, eggs and flour, with a 
little salt and baking powder, stir in the drained, fiaked cod- 
fish, and fry the fritters brown in deep hot fat. — [B. F. P., 
Mass. 

Codfish Soup 

To 1 pt strained tomatoes add 1 cup boiled and flaked cod- 
fish, 1 qt water, and a lump of butter. Boil 15 minutes, then 
add scant ^ teasp soda, and while it is foamy, pour in 1 pt 
ecalded milk. Serve at once. — [A. H. B.. Mich. 



MACKEREL AND HERRING WAYS 147 



Salt IMLackerel 

Soak fish In cold water 24 hours, then drain, cover with 
:water, add 1 tablesp vinegar, and boil until tender. Serve 
on a hot platter with melted butter poured over it. — [Mrs. M. 
B., N. Y. 

Baked Pickled Mackerel 

Clean, scrape and wash small mackerels thoroughly. Prepare 
a mixture of 1 pt salt, 1 tablesp each ground cloves and all- 
spice, 1 heaping teasp pepper and a little ground celery seed. 
Roll mackerel in this mixture and pack in an earthen pot. 
Fill with cider vinegar, and bake slowly 4 or 5 hours. The 
above pickling mixture is enough for 25 small mackerels. This 
is an especially fine dish to serve in cold weather. — [A. R. W.> 
Mass. 

Fried Salt Herring 

Wash the salt herrings in clear, cold water. In which a little 
soda has been dissolved, scrape offl the scales, open and clean, 
and then cut clear down through the backbone. Wash the 
inside well, then lay the halves, cut side down, in clear water, 
deep enough to cover, and let them remain there about 12 
hours, after which wash again, dry on a towel, sprinkle each 
piece with black pepper on the inside, fold, dip in cornmeal or 
flour, and fry over a hot fire in plenty hot lard. Nice served 
with corn pones or hoe cakes. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Pickled Herring 

Freshen salted herring in clear cold water about 4 hours, 
changing water every hour. Cut in pieces of convenient sizo 
and put in a jar of vinegar with a few slices of raw onions and 
some whole spices. — [Miss M. C, N. D. 

Baked Pickled Herring 

Put a layer of fresh fish in a small, deep baking pan, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, cinnamon, cloves and flour, dot with small 
bits of butter, and so proceed until the pan is full, then cover 
with good cider vinegar and bake about 3 hours. Can be 
sealed in air-tight jars, but would keep quite a long time in 
a cold place, even without sealing. — [Mrs. J. O. W., N. T. 

Fresh Herring Mdth Onions 

Prepare and wash the fish, remove heads, tails and fins, 
cut each fish in halves down the back, remove the bones, and 



148 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



dry on a clean towel. Cut 2 onions fine and fry tliem about 
4 or 5 minutes in hot drippings, then dip each piece of herring 
in batter and fry with the onions, adding more hot fat if nec- 
essary. Fry about 8 or 10 minutes, then place the fish in the 
center of a hot platter, arrange the onions around them, and 
garnish with parsley. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Directions for Baking Fish with Dressing 

Clean, scrape and thoroughly wash the flsh, and then wipe 
dry on a clean towel. Sprinkle the inside of the flsh lightly 
with salt, and fill with a dressing made of bread or cracker 
crumbs, a little butter or cubes of salt pork fried brown, a 
little minced onion, and pepper, salt and sage to taste. The 
flavoring is always a matter of taste. Skewer the flsh with 
wooden toothpicks, or sew up, and put in a baking pan with 
1 or 2 cups of water, sprinkle the fish with a little salt and 
flour, dot with bits of butter, and bake slowly until done, 
basting frequently. Serve hot. If the flsh is large a nice way 
is to cut several deep gashes on the bias across the top of the 
fish and insert thin stripes of salt pork or bacon in these 
gashes. It is sometimes. difficult to remove a baked fish from 
the pan without breaking. A flat piece of perforated tin, 
put in the pan under the fish, will help to obviate this trouble. 
— [A. G., Mass. 

Shad 

To bake a shad follow the directions for baked fish^ The roe 
may be baked in the same pan with the fish. Baste frequently. 
If the flsh is large it is well to rub in and outside with 
salt, let stand a while, and then wash in clear water. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Steamed or Baked Halibut 

Clean and wash thoroughly and dry with a clean towel. 
Butter a colander or any perforated dish, put the fish in this 
and place the colander over a kettle of boiling water. Do not 
let the flsh touch the water. Cover colander closely and 
steam about 1 hour, or until the flsh is done. Turn out on a 
hot platter, pour melted butter over it, season with pepper 
and salt, and garnish with slices of lemon. Halibut is also 
nice baked with half water and half milk, filling the baking 
pan about % inch, dotting the top with butter, and basting 
often. The gravy in the pan may be thickened with a tittle 
flour and served with the flsh. Potatoes and lettuce are nice 
served with any flsh. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 



CANNED AND FRESH SALMON WAYS 149, 



Baked Fresh Salmon 

When I lived in Oregon a friend showed me how to bake 
fresh salmon, and I have never tasted anything more delicious^ 
Wash and clean a small salmon thoroughly, in and outside, 
rub with butter, salt, and pepper, slice 1 onion, and put some 
of the slices in the fish and over the fish, and then pour 1 pt 
can of tomatoes over all. Bake in a moderate oven and baste 
frequently. Turn out on a hot platter and garnish with 
parsley. — [Mrs. E. G., Mich. 

Boiled Fresh Sabnon 

Clean the fish thoroughly inside and out, put on In boiling 
water to cover, and add salt and 1 or 2 tablesp vinegar, accord- 
ing to the size Of the fish. Serve with an egg or cream sauce. 
*— [E. L., Neb. 

Fried Fresh Salmon 

Cut fish into slices about % inch thick, dip in salted beaten 
egg, then in salted cracker or bread crumbs, and fry a light 
brown on both sides in hot fat. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Scalloped Salmon 

Drain off the liquor and remove the skin and bones from 1 
can of the very best salmon. Pick the fish into small pieces, 
then add 1 cup cream, % cup milk, 2 teasp flour rubbed smooth 
with 1 tablesp butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil until 
smooth, then fill into patty pans, sprinkle the top with crumbs, 
dot with bits of butter, and brown in a hot oven. — [Mrs. M. 
K., N. Y. 

Pickled Salmon 

For 4 salmons weighing about 3 lbs each allow 4 doz onions 
and 4 ozs each whole cloves and pepper, and cinnamon bark. 
Clean the fish thoroughly, salt slightly, and let stand over 
night. In the morning remove the skin, cut the fish up in 
pieces of convenient size, put them in boiling hot water, a 
few at a time, and let cook only a few minutes. Drain and put 
a layer of the fish pieces in a jar, alternating with layers of 
onions and spices, until the jar is full. Cover with good cider 
vinegar, cold, and put on an inverted plate with a weight, 
cover the jar with paper and cloth, and set away in a cold 
place. In 2 or 3 weeks the fish will be pickled suflaciently for 
use. — [Mrs. F. M., Wash. 



150 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Salmon Loaf ivith Cream Sance 

Remove the skin and bones from 1 can of the very best 
salmon, add % of the liquor with the fat skimmed off, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, scant % cup melted butter, 1 cup rolled cracker 
or bread crumbs, 1 tablesp lemon juice, 2 tablesp tomato cat- 
sup, and % tablesp finely minced onion. Mix thoroughly and 
steam 1 hour in well buttered pans, then dry off in the oven 
about 15 minutes. Serve with the following sauce: Rub 
1 tablesp butter and 2 tablesp flour to a cream, add scant 
% teasp salt, a dash of pepper, and 1 pt rich, scalded milk, and 
cook until smooth. Pour the sauce over and around the sat 
mon loaf, and serve hot. The salmon loaf can be served cold 
without sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, slices of 
lemon, and sprigs of fresh parsley. — [Mrs. F. E. A., Wash. 

Fish Boe 

Wash and handle carefully, so as not to break them, dry 
on a clean towel, dip in beaten salted eggs, roll in salted 
cracker crumbs, and fry light brown on both sides in bot drip- 
pings. Serve with slices of lemon. — [M. S., O. 

Pickled Fish 

Prepare and clean the fish, cut In slices, sprinkle with salt, 
and let stand over night. Next morning drain off the liquid, 
put the fish in a kettle, add a few whole peppers and cloves, a 
few slices of onion, and bring slowly to a boil. Let simmer 
until tender. Can be served hot or cold — we prefer it cold. 
' — [Mrs. H. C. O., Minn. 

Fish Chowder 

Trim and cut up about 4 or 5 lbs of any fresh fish, discard- 
ing bones and skin. Put the bones and skin on in a separate 
vessel in a little water, and let simmer gently 10 minutes. 
Cut up ^l lb salt pork, and fry until light brown, then add 2 
onions cut in thin slices and cover and cook 5 minutes, after 
which add 2 tablesp flour and cook 5 minutes longer, stirring 
frequently. Over this strain the water in which the fish 
bones were cooked, and add the fish and 1 qt potatoes cut In 
slices. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer IB minutes, 
or until the potatoes and fish are done, after which add 1 pt 
milk. Let boil up once more, then serve hot with oyster 
crackers. The milk may be omitted and 1 pt tomatoes used 
Instead. — [N. P., N. H. 



DEVILED AND PICKLED OYSTERS 151 

About Oysters and Clams 

Oysters, which are comparatively easy of digestion, though 
not very nutritious, are in season from September to May — 
that is, they are not considered good during May, June, July 
and August — the months without an "r." After removing 
from shell, 1 liquid qt contains about 50 small or medium 
sized oysters. To open oysters push a thin flat knife under 
the upper valve (the lower valve is deepest), and cut the 
muscle which holds the shells together. This muscle and the 
edges of the oysters are tough and indigestible and should 
be removed. Drain the liquor through a piece of cheesecloth 
wrung out of clear cold water, and carefully wash the oysters 
to remove grit or bits of shell. The harder parts of clams 
when cooked are quite indigestible and if not discarded ought 
to be chopped very fine. 

Better do without oysters or clams than risk buying them 
canned. Many cases of poisoning have resulted from eating 
canned oysters or clams that were not strictly fresh. It is 
safest to buy clams or oysters in the shell, and open them 
yourself, or have them opened by the dealer. When the 
shells open themselves the clams or oysters are dead and 
unfit for use. Clams and oysters should always be washed 
thoroughly, to free from grit. Long boiling toughens oysters 
— they should boil only about 1 minute, or until the edges 
curl. Do not boil them in milk, but add the milk and salt 
just before serving. Oysters should be served immediately, 
as long standing toughens them. — [A. G., Mass. 

Deviled Oysters 

Drain 2 doz oysters, chop fine, and mix with small % loaf 
bread moistened with a little water. Season with salt, black 
pepper and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 1 tablesp butter, and a 
little finely chopped parsley. Fill cleaned oyster shells with 
this mixture, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and set in a brisk 
oven to brown. — [Mrs. G. T. D., La. 

Pickled Oysters 

Wash 4 doz large oysters and wipe dry; strain the liquor 
and add to it 1 teasp pepper, 2 blades of mace, 1 level tablesp 
salt, and 6 or 7 tablesp vinegar. Simmer the oysters in 
this liquor a few minutes, then skim them out and put them 
in a small jar. Boil the pickle a few minutes longer, skim, 
and when cold, pour it over the oysters. Have the jar 
overflowing full, and seal air tight. — [M. P., N. H. 



152 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Scalloped Oysters 

Have ready a buttered baking dish, some melted butter in a 
saucer and some fine cracker and bread crumbs mixed. Rinse 
and drain small oysters, lift each, one on a fork, roll first in 
melted butter, and then in crumbs, and put in the baking dish. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with oysters treated this way, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and a very, very little mace — be 
careful not to use too much. Fill the dish in this way, and 
then pour in about % cup strained oyster liquor and 2 tablesp 
cream. Cover the top with a thin layer of crumbs, dot with 
bits of butter, and bake in a hot oven about % hour. — [M. P., 
N. H. 

Baked Oysters 

Wash and drain 1 qt small oysters. Make a sauce of 1 cup 
strained oyster liquor, % cup milk and % cup each butter and 
Iflour. Season with 1 level teasp salt, a few dashes of pepper 
land 1 tablesp grated cheese. Add the cheese after the sauce 
lias cooked 5 minutes, and remove from the fire as soon as the 
'cheese is melted. Parboil the oysters in a little of their own 
liquor until the edges curl, then put them in the sauce pre- 
pared as directed above, turn all into a buttered baking dish, 
cover with 1 cup fine cracker crumbs, dot liberally with butter, 
and bake until the crumbs are brown. Parboil the oysters 
before making sauce, as the extra liquor will be needed. — < 
IM. P., N. H. 

Fried Oysters or Clams, and Fritters 

Wash, drain and dry oysters between clean cloths. Dip in 
beaten eggs, then in bread or cracker crumbs, and then in eggs 
and cracker crumbs again, seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Fry about 1 minute in deep, smoking hot fat. Drain on soft 
paper to absorb the grease, and serve at once. To make frit- 
ters dip the oysters in a batter made of flour, eggs and a little 
of the oyster liquor and salt. The oysters should be gener- 
ously covered with the batter. Fry quickly in deep, hot fat. 
Clams may be prepared the same way. — [A. G., Mass. 

Oyster Stew 

To 1 cup strained oyster liquor add % cup water, boil and 
skim, then add % teasp salt, % teasp pepper, 1 tablesp butter 
and 1 tablesp fine cracker crumbs. When it boils add 1 qt 
oysters and boil 1 minute. Put % cup cream in a tureen, pour 
the boiling oyster stew in this, and serve at once. Do not cook 
the oysters in milk, as that toughens them. — [E. K., Mass. 



CLAM AND OYSTER PIES 15 S 

Oysters with Macaroni 

Break % lb macaroni (spaghetti) into 1 inch, pieces, and 
cook In boiling salted water until tender, then drain in a col- 
ander. In the bottom of a buttered baking dish put a layer of 
the macaroni, cover with oysters, and a little of their liquor, 
sprinkle with seasoning and bits of butter, and so continue 
With alternate layers of macaroni and oysters until the dish is 
filled. Pour over all 1% cups milk mixed with 2 well-beaten 
eggs, cover the top with bread crumbs, dot liberally with pieces 
of butter, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. — ■ 
[M. F. S.. Mich. 

Oyster Pie 

Mash 1 qt boiled potatoes, add 1 pt oysters with their liquor, 
1 tablesp butter and salt and pepper to taste. Line a pie tin 
with pastry, pour in the potato and oyster mixture, cover with 
pastry, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Oyster Omelet 

To 1 doz small oysters add 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 2 or 3 
tablesp milk, and salt and pepper to taste, with fine bread 
crumbs to thicken. Put in a small well buttered baking dish, 
dot with butter, bake until browned, and serve at once. — 
[M, P., N. H. 

Clam Pie 

Cut salt pork in dice and fry brown. Slice potatoes and 
onions and boil until tender in milk to cover. Into a buttered 
pudding dish put a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, then a 
layer of oysters, a little of the fried salt pork, a layer of the 
boiled potatoes and onions, sprinkle with pepper, salt and a lit- 
tle mace, and moisten with a little of the clam liquor, strained. 
Proceed in this way until the dish is full, then cover with a 
pie or biscuit crust, cut a few slits in the top, and bake in a 
rather quick oven. — [A. G., Mass. 

Clam Soup 

Chop 2 doz clams very fine, and drain. Pare and chop fine 3 
potatoes and put them on to boil in 1 qt milk, in a double 
boiler. Rub % cup butter and 2 heaping tablesp flour together 
until smooth and creamy, and when the milk and potatoes 
have been boiling 15 minutes stir in the flour and butter and 
cook about 10 minutes longer, after which add the drained 
clams, season with pepper and salt, and a little finely chopped 
parsley. Cook 1 minute, and serve at once. This is a very 
delicately flavored soup, as the clam liquor is not used. — i 
£N. P., N. H. 



154 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

01am Chowder 

Cut fine 1 lb salt pork and fry a golden brown, then add 3 
or 4 qts water, 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 3 carrots, % small tur- 
nip and % small head cabbage, all chopped fine. Let boil 
about 2 hours, then add about 1 qt tomatoes^ 3 or 4 bay leaves, 
some celery salt or fresh celery, chopped fine, a little parsley 
and salt to taste. Boil until all the ingredients are well done, 
then add 1 or 2 qts clams, chopped fine, and a little of the 
liquor strained. Boil 15 or 20 minutes, and just before serv- 
ing add 1 qt hot milk, if liked. Serve with crisp crackers. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Crabs and IJobsters 

The natural color of a live, healthy lobster is usually a dark, 
mottled, bluish green, but in sandy regions sometimes 
slightly reddish, and when boiled the color of the lobster 
changes to red. Lobsters are most plentiful during April and 
May, and the average weight is from 2 to 5 lbs. Lobsters 
should always be bought alive (unless they are bought ready 
cooked), and cooked, at once, by plunging as quickly as possi- 
ble into a large kettleful of boiling and bubbling hot water, 
head first. Add about 1 tablesp salt, cover the kettle closely, 
and boil briskly 1 minute, and then simmer gently % hour. 
Hard shell crabs are treated the same way. To dress a crab 
or lobster remove the shell by cutting with scissors, leaving 
the white flesh whole, wherever possible, and discarding the 
intestinal vein and stomach. Lobster or crab meat, cut fine, is 
nice mixed with an equal amount of cream sauce. Soft shell 
crabs are usually fried. Dress carefully, dip in milk, season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour or bread or cracker crumbs, 
and fry a golden brown in deep, hot fat. — [A. G., Mass. 



Frozen fish should be thawed out in cold water, and then 
cooked at once. — [A. G., Mass. 

Never salt oysters until just before removing from the fire, 
or they will shrivel and harden. — [S. E. W., O. 

Krhe old fish rule is, "Always fry my belly brown before you 
turn my back down." This a good rule, as the fish will not 
break In pieces if fried this way. — [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. 

It is best to fry fish in pure olive oil, fresh lard comes next, 
and butter is the least desirable. Lemon juice or slices 
of lemon are generally served with fish, as the acid corrects 
and balances the strong, fishy taste. — [Mrs. E. J. G., Mass. 




Meat, Pouitpy and Game 

AINTY cookery can convert the cheaper cuts of 
meat and fowl that is anything but tender, into 
wholesome, appetizing and hearty dishes. If the 
housewife can do this, she has learned the trick 
of reducing the butcher's bill by half, without 
stinting the meat supply. Authorities claim that 
the cheaper cuts of beef when properly prepared are by far 
more nutritious than the fancy, high-priced, cuts. The fol- 
lowing recipes include some very economical meat, poultry 
and game dishes, that sound decidedly "good," and by 
following the special directions for boiling and roasting, it 
ought not to be so difficult to get satisfactory results. The 
various recipes will also be found to be valuable aids in 
providing welcome variety for the dinner table, and though 
game is a rarity in most homes, yet these recipes will 
doubtless be appreciated too, when luck favors the hunter. 

General Directions for Boiling and Boasting Meat 

If meat is put on in cold water and salted at once the juices 
will be extracted, and therefore this method should be used 
only for soups or broths. Putting it on in boiling water will 
close the pores and form a coating which will help to retain 
the juices. Salt also helps to extract juices and therefore 
should not be added until the meat is almost done. Meat tor 
roasting should be wiped dry and put in a hot pan with very 
hot fat, in a very hot oven, adding salt after the meat is half 
done. Pot roasts should likewise be put dry into very hot fat 
and browned on all sides before water is added. When roast- 
ing meat the heat of the oven can be slightly decreased after 
the first half hour. Pot roast should simmer slowly after the 
first half hour, as quick cooking toughens it. — [A. G., Mass. 

Boiled Beef with Dressing 

Put a piece of nicely trimmed beef in a kettle, and any pre- 
ferred dressing, sewed up in a cheese cloth bag. Add boiling 
water to cover, and boil until the meat is done. Thicken 
some of the stock with a little flour, and serve as gravy. The 

155 



156 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

remainder of the stock can be used as a foundation for soup. 
If the meat is not fat enough add some butter to the dressing, 
and if the meat will require very long boiling, do not add the 
bag of dressing until the meat is half done, when salt may 
also be added. Onion added to the dressing or the liquor 
improves the flavor. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Steamed Beef 

Trim a nice piece of beef, cut deep gashes into it, and insert 
strips of salt pork, tie with twine to keep in shape, then put 
in a lard pail, add 1 chopped onion and a little sage, if liked, 
but no water. Cover the pail tightly, and put it in an iron pot 
filled with boiling water, and boil steadily about 3 hours. 
Then open the pail, season the meat with salt and pepper, 
and fill nearly full with sliced raw potatoes. Cover the pail 
again and steam 3 hours longer. If inconvenient to use the top 
of the stove, the steaming can be done in the oven just as well, 
where it will only require 5 hours in all. — [Mrs. B. P. C, Me. 

To Cook Corned Beef 

Wash the meat, and if very salty, soak it in cold water 
6ver night, then put it into a pot with cold water fo cover, 
set over a brisk fire, let it come to a boil, remove the scum, 
and let simmer slowly 3 or 4 hours, according to size. If the 
water boils away add more boiling water. Cabbage or turnips 
and potatoes may be boiled with the meat during the last 
hour. If the meat Is to be served cold allow it to cool in the 
liquor. — [Mrs. B. D., Ida. 

Pressed Beef 

Cook a cheap piece of beef very slowly until very tender, 
then let the liquor boil away to a small amount; chop or grind 
the meat very fine, season well with salt, pepper, and a little 
sage and summer savory, moisten with the liquor in which 
the meat was cooked, pack very solidly in jars, and set away 
to chill. Serve cut in thin slices. — [Mrs. G. W. S., Kan. 

Braised Beef 

Cut 2 lbs round steak in dice 1 inch square. Put 2 gener- 
ous slices of salt pork in a kettle and fry brown; then remove 
the scraps, and add to the hot fat 1 large onion, sliced, and 
fry until brown, after which add the meat dredged with flour, 
the brown pork scraps, and enough water to partly cover, and 
simmer slowly 3 hours. During the last hour season with salt 
and pepper, and when done thicken the gravy with a little 
flour. — [Mrs. B. P. C, Me. 



BEEF AND PORK ROASTS 157 

^^— ^ II — . 

Boast Beef 

Take a piece of rib or loin, trim and wipe clean with a dry 
towel, put in a hot dripping pan with a little hot butter or 
suet, and set in a very hot oven. Remember that the oven 
must be very hot when the roast is first put in. Baste fre- 
quently and when partly done and nicely browned, season with 
salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Do not salt the raw 
meat, as that would draw out the juices and make it tough. 
A roast of about 8 lbs will require about 2 hours roasting. 
Less would leave the inside too rare and longer roasting 
would dry it out. When done remove the roast to a hot 
platter, skim the fat from the gravy in the pan, add about 
1 tablesp flour, stir well over the flre, and when browned pour 
in about 1 cup water. Boil up once and pour in a hot gravy 
boat. — [Mrs. L. J. P., Ore. 

A Quick Way to Boast Beef 

Plunge the beef in a kettle of boiling water and boil briskly 
until almost done. Add salt to taste during the last half 
hour. Put some butter or drippings in a pan on top of the 
stove, lift the meat from the broth, drain, and then put it in 
the pan of hot drippings and brown quickly on both sides. 
When nicely browned all over, remove the meat to a hot 
platter, add a little flour to the gravy in the pah, and when 
brown stir in some of the broth in which the meat was cooked. 
When boiling beef do not use any more water than is neces- 
sary. A nice roast can be prepared in this way in half the 
time it would take to roast it in the oven in the usual way. — 
[Mrs. E. M. C, 111. 



Pot Boast (Beef or Pork) 

Top or bottom round, or a piece of the chuck is nice for a 
pot roast of beef. The pot should be no larger than necessary 
to accommodate the meat, and an iron pot is best. Put some 
drippings in the pot, and let get very hot. Trim the meat, 
wipe it clean with a dry towel, and then put it in the sizzling 
hot drippings, and turn until browned all over. Meanwhile 
fry some onions brown in a little drippings in a separate pan, 
and when the meat in the pot Is well browned, add the 
browned onions, % or 1 cup boiling water, salt and pepper to 
taste, and 2 or 3 bay leaves. Cover the pot closely so that 
no steam can escape, and let It simmer on top of the stove 
until the roast is nice and tender, turning often and watch- 
ing carefully, so It does not burn. If the water seems to boll 
away too rapidly, add a very little more boiling water, when- 
ever necessary. When the meat Is done, put on a hot platter. 



158 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



add a little flour to the gravy, and when this has browned 
nicely pour in a little cold water, boil up once, and then pour 
the gravy into a gravy boat. If a slightly sour taste is liked, 
1 or 2 tablesp vinegar may be added to the meat while roast- 
ing. — [A. G., Mass. 

Sonr Pot Boast of Beef 

Put a piece of nicely trimmed beef in a deep dish, pour 
over it 1 cup vinegar, and set away in a cold place 3 days, 
turning and basting the meat with the vinegar frequently 
«very day. After 3 days remove the meat from the vinegar, 
wipe with a dry towel, cut gashes in the meat and insert 
strips of fat bacon rolled in a mixture of salt, pepper and 
ground cloves. Put some butter or drippings in an iron pot, 
and when hot put in the beef, dredged with flour, and brown 
nicely on all sides'; then add about 2 cups boiling water, 2 car- 
rots and 2 onions cut in pieces, 1 teasp whole pepper, 1 blade 
of mace, a small piece of lemon peel, and salt to taste. Cover , 
closely and let simmer gently until the meat is tender, then 
take out the meat and vegetables, strain the gravy, return to 
the Are and thicken with a little flour. Put the meat on a 
platter, pour over 1 or 2 tablesp of the gravy, and garnish 
with the onions and carrots. Serve remainder of gravy in a 
boat. — [S. E. W., O. 

To Fry or Broil Steak 

Beefsteak should be cut thick. If you have any well- 
founded suspicion that it is not tender, lay it out on a clean 
table, and pound it hard on both sides with the side of a 
wooden potato masher. Have the frying pan very hot, put in 
some drippings, or butter, and when this is hot, put in the 
steak, and keep on moving it around, but do not prick with a 
fork, as this would cause the juices to run out. When brown 
on one side turn and brown on the other. The Are must be 
hot, for if steak is not fried quickly it will be tough. Put 
on a hot platter, add a very little hot water to the gravy 
in the pan, pour over the steak, season with salt and pepper^ 
and serve at once. To broil steak have a nice clear fire of red 
■coals, and turn steak often until a nice brown on both sides. 
Put on a hot platter with butter and season with salt and 
pepper. Never add salt to steak while frying or broiling. — > 
[A. G., Mass. 

Hamburg Steak (Beef or Pork)' 

Use clear beef, beef and pork mixed, or clear pork, allow- 
ing % part fat to % part lean. Chop or grind, season with 
a little chopped onion, or onion juice, add pepper and salt 
to taste, shape into small, flat cakes, and fry brown on both 
«ides in hot butter or drippings. — [M. A. M., Ind. 



BEEFSTEAK AND LIVER WAYS 159 

Beefsteak Boll 

ake round steak cut about % inch, thick, trim off the 
)fat, spread thickly with a nice dressing, adding some finely- 
minced onion if liked, roll up, and tie securely with a string, 
or fasten with skewers. Put in a hot dripping pan with 
hot drippings, on top of the stove, and turn the roll until 
well browned on all sides, then pour in about 1 pt boiling 
water and 1 tablesp vinegar, season well with salt and pepper, 
cover closely, and let simmer on back of stove about 3 hours, 
by which time it will be nice and brown and tender. Thicken 
the gravy with a little flour, and serve with the meat. Nice 
sliced when cold. Can be roasted in the oven, if preferred. — • 
[N. S.' C, Cal. 

Dried Beef with Milk 

Put butter the size of an egg into a skillet and let brown, 
then add dry beef, sliced and pulled into small pieces, let 
fry a few minutes, then add 1 cup water, let boil a few 
minutes, then add 1 qt milk, and when this comes to a 
boil stir in 3 tablesp flour mixed to a smooth paste with a 
little milk. This is a very nice breakfast dish in winter 
time.-^[Mrs. W. "W. P., Okla. 

Hungarian Gonlash 

Put butter size of an egg in a deep spider, add 2 slices 
fat bacon, 3 or 4 slices onion, a little pepper, and when: 
smoking hot add steak cut in small pieces. Fry until nicely 
brown, then add water enough to cover, and 1 tablesp lemon! 
juice. Cover closely and let simmer until tender. Thicken' 
the gravy with a little flour. If wished, potatoes and 
tomatoes cut in small pieces may be added the last half 
hour. Goulash should be quite hot with pepper. — [S. E. W.,' O. 

Stewed Liver 

Parboil the liver in salted water and when tender cut 
into small squares. Thicken 1 qt milk with 2 tablesp flour, 
add butter size of an egg, and salt and pepper to taste, then 
put in the pieces of liver, let boil up once more, and serve 
on hot buttered toast. — [B. P., Mass. 

Fried Liver (Sour) 

Fry liver and bacon until nicely brown, then put on a; 
warm platter and fry some onions in the remaining fat, and' 
when brown add % cup vinegar, % cup water, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Let come to a boil, then thicken wittt 
a little flour, let boil a few minutes, pour over the liver and! 
bacon, and serve. Heart may be sliced and prepared in the 
same way. — [Mrs. L. D., Col. 



160 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



liiver lioat 

Boil 1 lb liver until tender, chop fine; mix with 2 well- 
beaten eggs, add 4 boiled and chopped potatoes, a small piece 
of chopped salt pork, fried half done, butter the size of a 
walnut, and salt, pepper and sage to taste. Form into a 
loaf, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake. Can also be 
shaped into small cakes and fried. — [Mrs. J. A. W.. Mo. 

Fried Tripe 

Cut the tripe in pieces, dredge with flour, roll in salted, 
beaten egg, then dredge with flour again, and fry in hot 
drippings, rough side down, and when brown turn and brown 
the other side. Another way is to put the tripe in a dish 
in the oven for 10 or 15 minutes, then dry in a cloth, dip 
in flour or cornmeal, and fry quickly in hot drippings. — [F. 
M. W., N, H. 

Stewed Haslet 

Clean and trim, and boil the haslet % hour in salted water, 
skimming often. When done, drain and cut In small pieces, 
add more than enough water to cover, with 1 or 2 tablesp 
butter and some sliced onions and potatoes, also salt and 
pepper to taste. When done, thicken the gravy with a little 
Bour. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Baked Heart 

Use either beef or pork heart. Clean thoroughly, cut out 
all the clots of blood and stringy parts, soak in salt water 2 
or 3 hours, then drain and put in a kettle with plenty of 
water, a piece of suet the size of an egg, salt and pepper to 
taste, and let boil until tender. Make a dressing moistened 
with the water in which the heart was boiled, and fill the 
opening of the heart, then put in a deep pan, and if any of 
the dressing is left over, place it around the heart, and 
bake until brown, turning and basting often, using the 
water in which the heart was boiled. — [Mrs. J. H. S. Mich. 

Deviled Heart 

Cook veal heart until tender, chop or grind fine, mix with 
'% the quantity of bread crumbs, season with salt, red 
pepper, sage, and a little grated nutmeg, put a layer in 
a buttered baking dish, moisten with the liquor the heart 
was boiled in, sprinkle with bread crumbs, dot with butter, 
and bake about % hour. — [L. E. M., Mich, 




PLUCKING BIDDY FREE OF FEATHERS. 



MEAT LOAP AND ROAST VEAIj 161 

Meat lioaf (Beef, Pork, or Veal) 

Grind or chop 3 lbs round steak and ^ lb beef suet, add 
1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp pepper, 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs, a 
very small chopped onion, 8 tablesp fine bread or cracker 
crumbs, and 1 cup milk. Mix thoroughly, shape into two loaves, 
roll in bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake 1 
hour, basting often. This recipe may be varied by combining 
% beef with % pork, omitting the suet, and using less 
eggs when the pork is used. Veal loaf is also nice, with 
% part pork, which may be either fresh or salt. If the 
onion taste is not liked omit these, and flaver with a T«ry 
little nutmeg and cloves. Instead of milk, water can be 
used, and instead of shaping into large loaves, make into 
small rolls or balls and either bake or fry them. The gravy 
in the pan should be thickened with a little flour and served 
with the meat. — [Mrs. L. P., Ore. 

Mutton with Cabbage and Potatoes 

Cut mutton in small pieces and put on with cold water 
enough to cover, add 1 small head crisp, tender cabbage, cut 
in small pieces, pepper and salt to taste. Half hour before 
serving add potatoes. Boil until all is tender, strain and 
thicken the gravy with a little flour. — [Mrs. E. O. B., Minn. 

Stewed Mntton and Com 

Wash and cut mutton in small pieces and put in a stew 
pan with 1 or 2 chopped onions, and water to cover. When 
the liquid has boiled down about one-half, add 1 qt hulled 
com and 1 pt strained tomatoes, with salt and pepper to 
taste, and stew about % hour longer. — [C. J. M., Neb. 

Roast Fillet of Veal 

Remove the bones and fill in with a dressing seasoned with 
salt and pepper, parsley and thyme. Bake in a hot oven, 
allowing 20 minutes for every lb veal. Baste with drip- 
ingg — any fat except salt pork. When done thicken th& 
gravy with a little flour. — [S. B., N. T. 

Veal with Pork 

Put slices of fat salt pork in a frying pan with just 
water enough to cover and let come to a boil, then drain 
the water from the pork, return it to the Are, put slices of 
veal on top of the pork, dust with salt and pepper, and 
fry slowly, turning often until both are nicely browned. The 
flavor of both meats is improve^ by this combination and 
method of cooking. — [Mrs. A. B. W.. N. Y. 



162 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Jellied Veal 

Boil a lean piece of veal in water enough to cover, until 
the bones separate from the meat. Cut the meat in small 
pieces, boil the liquor down to about 1 pt, add to it % box 
clear gelatine, soaked about 10 minutes in a little cold water, 
J^ teasp celery salt, % teasp cayenne pepper, 1 level teasp 
mustard, and the juice of 1 lemon. Let boil up a minute, 
then strain over the meat, put in a mold, and let stand over 
might to get cold. Slices of hard-boiled eggs can be put in 
-with the meat. When hard, turn out and serve cut in slices. — 
[Mrs. A. B. W., N. Y. 

Boast Iioin of Pork 

Separate each joint of the loin, make an incision in the 
thick part of the pork, and fill with a dressing mixed with 
eome chopped suet and seasoned with onions and spices to 
taste. Bring the edges of the meat together and sew them 
up, then wrap the meat in a well greased sheet of white 
paper, tie up with twine, put in a dripping pan, place in a 
hot oven, and baste often with the grease which will melt 
from the roast. Bake about 20 minutes for eacIL pound of 
pork. — [Mrs. R. F. K., la. 

Fried Fork Tenderloin 

Cut the tenderloin in 1-inch slices, pound with a potato 
masher, sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in beaten egg, 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown in plenty hot 
drippings, or butter. Tenderloin is too dry for boiling, and 
if roasted should be basted frequently. — [Mrs. M. M. B., Mo. 

Mock Birds (Pork) 

Spread any preferred dressing on thin slices of lean, boiled 
salt pork, fasten the ends together firmly with wooden tooth- 
picks, brown these rolls in! a pan, and then remove to a 
platter. Add to the fat in the pan some finely minced onion 
and a little ilour, and when brown add some water and pepper 
to taste, and return the stuffed rolls to this gravy, and let 
stew about 2 hours. — [Mrs. C. J. M., Neb. 

Fried Salt Pork 

Cut salt pork in slices and let soak over night in butter- 
milk or sour milk. Next morning drain off, roll in com meal, 
and fry brown on both sides, in hot drippings. — [Mrs. E. G. 
&, N. T. 



SALT PORK AND SMOKED HAM 163! 



Salt Fork with Vegetables 

Soak a piece of salt pork in water over night. In the morn- 
ing put on with clear cold water, and add some carrots, 
turnips, rutabagas, and potatoes, cut in pieces, also a few 
pieces of celery stalks or root. Let boil until the water 
has reduced and the meat and vegetables are done. Instead 
of salt pork a piece of bacon or a ham bone may be used.^ 
[Mrs. E. O. B., Minn. 

Salt Pork with Dried Apples 

Wash a piece of nice salt pork, and put in a kettle with 
cold water enough to cover, then add some washed, dried 
apples, cover closely, and cook slowly until done. After you 
have tasted this once you will surely call for more. — [B. K. 
D., N. Y. 

Mexican Chili Pork 

Cut 1 lb bacon in small dice and fry brown, then add 9 
onions, cut fine, and fry with the bacon until done, but not 
brown, then add 1 qt each tomatoes and baked beans, salt 
to taste, and plenty of pepper. This is very good and improves 
with each warming up. — [Mrs. H. G., Neb. 

Baked Ham 

Wash and scrape the ham and trim. Make a dough of 
flour and water and % cup syrup, roll out % inch thick, and 
cover the ham with this, being careful to cover all parts. 
Put in a hot oven to brown, then decrease the heat, and 
bake slowly till done, basting often. It will take from 4 
to 6 hours, according to the size of the ham. When done 
remove the crust. This is a much better way than boiling. — » 
[Mrs. S. B., Tex. 

Boiled Ham 

Soak smoked ham over night in cold water and the next 
morning scrape it until you are sure it Is thoroughly clean, 
trimming off any blackened parts. Put in a kettle of boiling 
water, cover closely, and boil gently until done. It will take 
from 4 to 6 hours, according to the size of the ham. When 
done remove from the water, pull off the rind, score the fat 
Bide criss-cross, insert a whole clove into each square, place In 
a baking pan in a very hot oven, and leave there until the fat 
is nice and brown. — [A. G., Mass. 



164 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



To Fry Ham 

Cut ham In slices % incli thick, pour boiling water over 
them, let them stand a few minutes, then drain, roll in flour 
or cornmeal and fry slowly in hot drippings until a light 
brown on both sides. — [Mrs. F. H., Mo. 

Creamed Shredded Ham 

Thicken 1 cup milk with 2 teasp flour, add butter size 
of egg, 2 welLbeaten eggs, salt to taste, let boil a few minutes, 
the« add bits of finely shredded lean ham. Serve with baked 
potatoes, or pour over buttered toast. — [E. P., Mass. 

Potted Ham 

Allow 1 Qt lea?', ham and % pt fat, chop or grind very fine, 
add 1 teasp ground mace, % teasp nutmeg and allspice, and 
a little pepper. Mix thoroughly, pound to a paste, pack in 
small jars, cover with melted lard, and store in a cool place. — 
[N. S. C. Cal. 

A Favorite Dutch Dish 

Boll 8 good sized ham bone in about 1 gal water for several 
hours. Water in which the ham was boiled (if the ham was 
scraped nice and clean) can be used. When done, take out 
the ham bone, and when the water is cooled, add to It 1 qt 
dried apples, and let them soak until they have softened. This 
should be done the evening before the dish is wanted, and 
the same evening a new baking of bread should be put 
to rise. Next morning put the pot of ham bone liquor and 
soaked apples over the fire, and as soon as it boils, break oS 
little pieces from the raised bread dough, size of a walnut, drop 
into the boiling liquor and boil till the apples and bread 
dumplings are done. Serve hot. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Sansage Fritters 

To % pt sour milk or buttermilk, add % teasp soda, % 
teasp salt, and flour enough to make a moderately stiff 
batter. Dip squares or cakes of sausage meat In this batter, 
and fry brown on both sides. Another way is to mix the 
sausage meat with the batter and drop by spoonsful into hot 
drippings. — [Mrs. J. W. K., Tenn. 

Crust for Meat Pie 

To 1 pt sifted flour add 1 teasp salt, 2 teasp baking powder, 
2 tablesp butter or lard, and milk enough to make a soft 
dough. Cut 3 or 4 holes in the top crust, and insert in each 
a small buttered paper tube or cone, to permit the steam to 
escape. — [Mrs. M. E. R., Wis. 



MEAT PIES AND TOP CRUSTS 165 



Crust for Pot Pie 

To 1 qt flour add 1 teasp salt, 4 teasp baking powder, and 
milk enough to make a stiff batter. Drop batter by spoonsful 
into a pan 6t flour, roll around in the flour, pat into shape 
with the hands, and when the meat is nearly done, drop these 
bits of crust into the kettle. The liquid should be boiling 
briskly. Cover and cook % hour. The covered kettle may 
be transferred from the stove to a hot oven, as soon as the 
crust is put in and if the kettle is not too full, it will not 
boil over, and the crust will not be heavy. — [Miss G. R., N. Y. 

Meat Pie ^ 

Use any remnants of left-over beef, pork, veal, lamb or mut- 
ton and left-over potatoes ot equal quantity, or take small pieces 
of fresh meat and raw potatoes, and boil them together until 
tender, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Let the 
gravy boil down some, and thicken with very little flour. Line 
a deep pie pan with a short biscuit or pie crust, rolled out 
about % inch thick, put in the meat and potatoes with the 
gravy, cover with a top crust, in which several slits were 
cut to allow for the escape of steam, pinch the edges together, 
and bake until a nice brown. Do not put too much gravy in 
the pie, but if there is any left over, serve it separately with 
the pie. If onions are liked, boil this with the meat and 
potatoes. — [Mrs. J. H. S., Mich. 

Veal Pot Pie 

Cut 2 lbs veal in small pieces, and put over the flre with 
2 qts cold water. Bring to a quick boil, then move to the 
back of the range and simmer slowly until tender, adding salt 
whea nearly done. Half hour before serving drop some 
dumplings into the boiling broth, cover and boil 20 minutes. 
Add a lump of butter to the gravy and if it is too thin, thicken 
it with a little flour. — [Mrs. B. P. C, Me. 

Salt Pork Pie 

Slice % lb salt, lean pork, freshen, and fry brown. Pare 
and cut into thick slices 2 qts potatoes and 1 qt onions, and 
put in the kettle with the fried meat, adding 2 qts boiling 
water. Let this boil while you prepare a crust. When the 
potatoes and onions are partly done, thicken with 2 tablesp 
flour, and pour into a pudding dish. Cover with the crust, 
and bake until done. — [G. C, Wis. 



166 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



or left-o 



Chicken or Meat Fie 



Bits or left-over meat or poultry can be made into appe- 
tizing pies. Cut the meat in small pieces, and mix with 
gravy, or, if you have no gravy, make some by frying onions 
brown In drippings, and thickening with flour, adding a very 
little water. Put the meat and gravy in a pudding dish, and 
cover with mashed potatoes an inch thick. Moisten the top 
slightly with milk, dot with bits of butter, and bake until 
brown. Serve hot. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Mock Chicken Pie 

Pare and slice 1 qt potatoes and 3 onions, add 2 tablesp 
butter, and 1 teasp each sage and salt. Cook until tender 
in plenty water, then drain and put the liquid in a basin to 
keep hot. Put the potatoes and onions in a well buttered 
dish, slice 6 hard-boiled eggs on top, moisten with a little 
of the potato liquid, cover with a rich biscuit dough, and 
bake. The potato water may be thickened with a little flour, 
and served with the pie. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 

Ham Pie 

Boil slice of lean, cured ham or shoulder about 1 hour. Line 
a buttered pan with biscuit dough, put in a layer of the 
cooked meat, season with pepper, scatter a few dumplings 
of the dough over the meat, pour over some of the water 
the ham was boiled in, then another layer of meat and dump- 
lings with some more of the meat liquor, and then break in 
as many eggs as you have people to serve, or as many as 
you can spare. Put on the top crust, bake, and when nearly 
done pour in about 1 pt sweet milk, and finish baking. — > 
[Mrs. H. A. B., Mont. 

Baked Hash 

Take pieces of left-over cooked or roasted meat and pota- 
toes, chop coarsely, and season with salt, pepper and onion 
juice. Butter a pudding dish, cover the sides and bottom 
with bread crumbs, put in the meat and potatoes, add some 
left-ovei gravy, or hot butter and water, cover with crumbs, 
dot with bits of butter, and bake about 20 minutes. If no 
cold boiled potatoes are at hand, chop some raw potatoes 
and onions, put in the pan with a little water, salt and 
pepper, cover, and simmer until done, then add the meat 
and pour into the pudding dish. — [A. G., Mass. 

India Cxury with Rice 

Cut onions in rings and fry brown in butter; when bro'wn 
take out the onions, and try pieces of meat, fish, game, OB 



PICKING AND CLEANING POULTRY 16T 

poultry In the same fat, adding a small piece of garlic, a 
little coriander seed, and 1 heaping teasp curry powder. 
Let simmer 1 minute, stirring all the time, then add a 
little hot water and let simmer 1 hour over a slow Are. 
Adding an apple cut in pieces is a great improvement. Put 
1 cup rice over the fire with 3 qts water, and when tender, 
drain through a colander. Pour a pt cold water over the rice 
in the colander, shake well, and when thoroughly drained, 
serve hot with the curry. The water that the rice was 
boiled in makes good starch for clothes, or with a little 
lemon juice and sugar makes a good drink for invalids. — 
[Capt. A. H., N. J. 

To Pick and Clean Poultry 

For market, dry picking Is the best way — that is, pulling, 
out the feathers immediately after killing, while the poultry 
is still warm, but for home consumption, the scalding method 
is the quicker and easier. After killing dip in scalding hot 
water and move about for a few minutes, then pick as 
quickly as possible. Ducks should be scalded a little longer 
and then wrapped in canvas or any close cloth, to steam 
about 5 to 10 minutes, after which the feathers can be 
easily pulled. The hairs should be singed off by holding 
and turning the poultry In the flames of a lighted twist of 
paper, or some burning alcohol. Wash thoroughly and dry, 
and then lay on several folds of paper, and clean at once. 
The quicker poultry is cleaned, the better, but it is best not 
to cook it until 24 hours after killing. 

After singeing, and before drawing, pull out all pin feathers, 
then cut off the head, and next cut through the skin around 
each leg, about 1% inches below the first leg joint, being 
careful not to cut tendons. Place the leg" with the cut 
over the edge of a table, press downward to snap the bone, 
then take the foot in the right hand, holding the bird firmly 
in the left hand, and pull off the foot, and with it the 
tendons. Make a lengthwise cut through the skin just 
below the breast bone, large enough to' admit the hand, 
and remove the entrails entire, by first carefully loosening 
them all around, and then bringing the hand forward, grasp- 
ing the entrails firmly, and with one pull drawing them out. 
The lungs and kidneys, on either side of the back-bone, 
should next be removed, and then the wind-pipe and crop, 
close to the skin of the breast, by inserting two fingers under 
the neck skin. Draw down the skin and cut the neck off 
close to the body, leaving on enough skin to close up the 
opening after the crop Is partly filled with a little dressing. 
The giblets (gizzard, heart and liver) should next be care- 
fully separated from the entrails, being careful not to break 



168 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



the gall bag attached to the liver, the bile from which would 
impart an extremely bitter flavor to any parts it came in 
<;ontact with. Then wash the bird thoroughly in and out- 
side, rub with salt, and let hang in a cool place over night. — • 
[A. G., Mass. 

Steamed Fowl 

Dress a 5 or 6 lb chicken, wash and dry thoroughly, and 
Tub with salt and pepper, in and outside. Place an onion 
and a bay leaf inside, and put the fowl into shape the same 
as for roasting. Sprinkle a clean towel with flour, wrap it 
about the fowl, pinning closely, and then place it, back 
down, in a steamer, and steam continuously 2 or 3 hours, 
according to its age and size. Serve with currant or cran- 
berry jelly. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

Fried Chicken 

Dress a young chicken, cut off the legs, wings and neck, 
and then cut down the back bone, and press the body open, 
breaking the breast bone by pounding lightly. Boil the legs, 
wings, and giblets in water enough to cover, and when 
tender add salt and pepper to taste, and 1 tablesp flour mixed 
with 1 tablesp butter. This will answer as a dressing for the 
fried chicken. Dip the body of the chicken in corn meal 
and fry brown in hot drippings. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Pickled Chicken 

This is a nice way to prepare old and tough chicken. Clean 
and joint and soak in cold salted water several hours, then put 
on with fresh water and salt, 2 or 3 sliced onions, 2 or 3 
bay leaves, % doz whole allspice, and when nearly done 
add enough vinegar to make it quite sour to taste. Let boll 
until done, then pour into a crock. There should be enough 
liquid to cover the fowl. Let stand over night. When cold 
the liquid will be jellied. — [Mrs. G. A., Minn. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Dress and joint the chicken, sprinkle with pepper and salt 
and place in a pan with butter size of an egg, and milk to cover. 
Bake until tender. If the milk boils away add more milk, 
or hot water. Thicken the milk gravy with a little flour 
just before serving. — [C. B. O., Kan. 

Smothered Chicken 

Dress and joint a young chicken, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll In flour or corn meal, place the pieces closely In 



CHICKEN SOUP AND FRICASSEE 169 



a bread pan, balf cover with cold water or milk, and if the 
chicken is not very fat add lumps of butter or some thick 
slices of fat bacon. Bake until done. When one side is 
brown, turn to brown on the other side, and when nearly done 
put a 2-inch square of biscuit dough on top of each piece of 
chicken, return to the oven, and bake until a nice brown. 
When done, remove the chicken with crust to a hot platter, 
add 1 cup rich cream to the liquor in the pan, thicken with 
a little flour, let boil up, and serve with the chicken. — 
[Mrs. M. M. B., Mont. 

Pressed or Potted Chicken 

Dress and joint a chicken, and boil in water enough to 
cover, until the meat slips from the bones. Drain off the- 
liquor, remove the bones, and cut the meat in small pieces, 
but do not chop fine, and season with salt and pepper. Boil 
the broth down to 1 pt, put a layer of meat in a mold 
with some slices of hard-boiled eggs, then more chicken and 
eggs, seasoning to taste, then pour in the broth, and set 
away to get cold. Another way instead of boiling down 
the broth, is to thicken it with bread crumbs, or 1 tablesp 
clear gelatine dissolved in a little hot water. — [K. S., la. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Dress and joint a chicken, and let it simmer slowly, closely 
covered, in 1 qt hot water, with 2 stalks celery, 1 bay leaf, 
1 slice of onion, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of 
curry. When the chicken is tender, remove from the liquid 
and place on a hot platter. Stir into the liquid 1 beaten 
egg, % cup cream, or 1 tablesp butter, and 1 tablesp flour, 
and let boil up, then pour over the chicken and serve hot. 
The platter may be garnished with a border of hot mashed 
potatoes, and edged with parsley. — [Mrs. E. J. C, Mass. 

Chicken Sonp with Dumplings 

Dress and cut up a chicken, and put on to boil in plenty 
of cold water, adding salt to taste. Let boil long and slowly, 
and about one hour before serving add 1 pt carrots, peeled 
and sliced fine, and % hour later 1 qt potatoes, peeled and 
sliced also, an onion, if liked, and ^, hour later dumplings 
made as follows. Put % cup butter in a frying pan and when 
hot add % cup flour, and let cook about 10 minutes, stirring 
vigorously, but do not let it brown. Then add some of the 
chicken broth, a little at a time, to convert the mass into a 
smooth ball which will free entirely from the pan. Remove 
from the flre, and when cool add 1 or 2 beaten eggs, and 
mix well. Drop into the boiling soup by spoonsful and boil 
steadily about 15 or 20 minutes. — [Mrs. A. P., Neb. 



170 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Hot Tamales 

Boil a chicken until very tender, remove bones and chop 
meat fine. To each lb meat add 1 medium sized tomato and 
onion chopped fine, salt and red pepper to taste, and moisten 
to the consistency of mush with the chicken broth. Heat 
the remainder of the liquor to boiling, stir in cornmeal to 
make a little stiffer than ordinary mush, and cook thoroughly. 
Take nice, fresh corn husks and soak in warm water until 
soft. Then spread a half-Inch layer of mush on each husk, 
and put a good spoonful of the meat mixture on that, and 
roll up so that the meat is covered by the mush and the 
whole is nicely wrapped in the husks. Turn in the ends 
and tie tightly with twine, and steam % hour. Serve In 
the husks. Nice tamales can be made in the same way 
with either fresh beef or fresh pork. The neck of beef is 
best, as it has the right proportion of fat and lean, and the 
shoulder of pork is good, adding a little more fat to it. i 

Fried Guinea-Hen 

Select a nice, fat guinea-hen weighing about 3 lbs, clean 
and wash thoroughly in cold water, and put in a kettle over 
the fire with scarcely enough cold water to cover, adding 1 
teasp salt and 1 tablesp vinegar, after the hen has boiled 
1 hour. When tender joint and cut in pieces of convenient 
size, and fry brown on both sides in butter. Remove from 
the frying pan to platter, add 1 cup thick sweet cream to 
the gravy in the pan, season to taste, let boil up, and serve. — 
[Mrs. C. E. D., N. Y. 

Boast Turkey 

Having properly dressed and stuffed the turkey, rub entire 
surface with salt, spread breast, wings and legs with butter, 
rubbed until creamy and mixed with flour, and dredge bottom 
of pan with flour. Place in hot oven, and when flour on 
turkey begins to brown, reduce heat, baste with fat in pan, 
and add 2 cups boiling water. Continue basting every 15 
minutes until turkey is cooked, which will require about 3 
hours for a 10-lb turkey. For basting, use % cup butter 
melted in Vz cup boiling water in which the giblets were 
cooked, and after this is used baste with fat in pan. During 
cooking, turn turkey frequently, that it may brown evenly. 
To prepare gravy: As soon as turkey is removed from pan 
pour off liquid, from which skim 6 tablesp fat, return fat 
to pan, brown with 1 or 2 tablesp flour, and pour on gradually 
the remaining liquor, to which the giblets, finely chopped, 
have been added, and cook 5 minutes. Remove string and 
■skewers from turkey, and garnish with parsley or celery tips 
before serving. 



GOOSE, DUCK AND RABBIT 171 

Boast Goose 

Dress and wash thoroughly, and half fill with a dressing 
prepared as follows: Boil and chop fine 1 doz onions and 
mix well with an eq.ual quantity of bread crumbs; add 1 
teasp sage, salt, and 1 level teasp pepper. Bake in a hot 
oven, basting frequently. When done skim the fat from 
the gravy in the pan, add the liquid from the boiled giblets, 
and also the giblets chopped fine, thicken with a little flour, 
and season o taste. Serve goose with apple sauce. — [S. B., 
N. Y. — ^A very nice dressing for goose is boiled sauerkraut, 
seasoned with pepper. — [Mrs. J. H., Minn. 

Boiled or Boas^d Dock 

A delicious flavor is imparted to boiled duck by boiling 
with it 1 large onion, 1 tablesp vinegar, and about % teasp 
sage, besides salt and pepper. When tender, remove the 
duck, boil down the liquor, skim off the fat, thicken with a 
little flour browned in a pan with some butter, return the 
duck to the gravy, and let simmer a few minutes. To roast, 
if the duck is very fat or old, parboil it first, with a pinch 
of baking soda, then stuff with any preferred dressing, (the 
English use raisins, prunes or apples in the dressing), pin 
a few thin slices of salt pork across the breast with wooden 
toothpicks, and baste often. Onions, sage and salt pork 
combine very nicely with the duck flavor. Another nice way 
is to Joint, season with salt, pepper and sage, roll in flour, 
and put in layers in a small pan, with minced onion and bits 
of butter between, ending with a layer of onions, bread crumbs 
and butter. Then fill the pan half full with water or milk, 
cover closely, and bake about 2 hours, removing the upper 
pan during the last % hour, to brown nicely. — [A, G., Mass. 

Baked Jack Babbit 

If "jack" is old, after dressing, parboil for 3 to 5 minutes, 
adding about 1 teasp soda to the hot water, and then drain. 
Fasten slices of salt pork across the back of the rabbit, with 
wooden toothpicks. This imparts a good flavor and prevents 
the drying out of the meat. Season and dredge well with 
flour, and put a few bits of butter around the rabbit in the 
pan, adding a very little water, and about 1 tablesp vinegar. 
Baste often. When done thicken the gravy with a little 
flour. — [Mrs. W. H., Kan. 

Curried Babbit 

Wash and joint the rabbit and dredge each piece with! 
flour. Put the good trimmings and a few scraps of meat 



172 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

With 2 large onions, 1 carrot, sliced, a small pinch of herbs, 
6 pepper corns, and 1 tablesp curry powder in a saucepan 
with enough cold water to cover, and simmer for 1% hours, 
and then strain off the liquor. Fry 1 small minced onion 
a light brown in 1 tablesp drippings, add 1 tablesp curry 
paste, and stir over the fire about 10 minutes, then add the 
stock, and when it has come to ^ boil, draw it to the side 
and let it simmer. The sauce may be thickened with a 
little flour. While this is simmering prepare the rabbit as 
fellows. Fry the flour-dredged joints brown in a little 
drippings, with 1 onion, then add to the curry sauce, and 
let stand on the back of the range to simmer very slowly 
about 1 hour. Just before serving add a little lemon juice, 
and pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot, with boiled rice 
and red currant jelly. — [M. L. D., Scotland. 

Stewed Babbit 

Dress and clean a couple of young rabbits, joint them, 
and put into a stew pan with 2 large Spanish onions, cut 
small; add enough milk to cover, season with white pepper, 
cover closely, and stew very slowly until tender, then season 
with salt, add butter to the gravy, and thicken with flour. 
If any of this dish is left over dip each piece in beaten 
egg, roll in bread crumbs or cornmeal, season with salt, 
pepper and a little grated lemon rind, and fry in hot drip- 
pings until nicely browned on both sides. Serve hot with 
the gravy seasoned with lemon juice and cayenne pepper, 
or a little catsup. Young rabbits are also nice cooked with 
green peas. Joint and put in a stew pan with a slice of lean 
ham, cut in small pieces, 1 tablesp butter, 1 or 2 spring 
onions, a small sprig of parsley, and 1 qt fresh green peas. 
Dredge in some flour, pour in a little milk, and let come 
to a boil, then draw to the back of the stove and let stew 
slowly until rabbit and peas are tender. Just before serving 
season with salt and a very little sugar. — [M. L. D., Scotland. 

Baked Coon 

The raccoon which makes free with the farmer's corn gets 
very fat in the fall, on corn, apples and clover, and makes 
delicious eating, though often thrown away because of the 
prejudice that many people have against wild meat. First 
skin the coon carefully, then remove the layer of fat, which 
is often an inch thick, right under the skin. This fat would 
give the meat a disagreeable, oily taste, if left on, but it is 
nice and white, and can be tried out the same as leaf lard, 
and used for soap. Thoroughly wash the dressed coon in 
cold water and soak over night in cold water with 1 tablesp 
salt added to each gallon water. Bake the same as veal. 



OPOSSUM AND VENISON 173 



If the coon is old, as shown by large size, dark meat, and 
stiff hard bones and joints, it should be parboiled from 1 
to 2 hours, before roasting. — [I. R. N., Me, 

'"Possum and Sweet 'Taters" 

Pour a large kettleful of hot water in a convenient vessel, 
add a small shovel of ashes, and then put the 'possum in 
this, but do not have the water as hot as for scalding chickens. 
Turn the 'possum around until the fur is loosened, and you 
will have no trouble in skinning him perfectly clean. Remove 
head, feet and entrails, wash thoroughly in cold water, salt in 
and outside, and let hang over night. In the morning wash 
again and put In a baking pan with a little water. Cover 
closely with another pan, and put it over the fire. When 
tender remove the top pan and put the 'possum in the oven to 
brown. Dust with black pepper and baste with lard. While 
it is baking, peel potatoes, cut them in thick slices, and put 
them in a skillet over the Are with salt and a little water and 
lard. Cover, and let steam until tender. By that time the 
•possum will be nicely brown. Turn the prepared potatoes 
over him, return to the oven, and when nicely brown, put 
the 'possum on a platter, arrange the potatoes around him, 
and serve. — [Mrs. S. J. S., Ala. 

Fried Venison with Gravy 

Cut venison into medium thick slices, hack it criss-cross 
with a butcher's knife on both sides, roll in flour, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and fry in hot drippings until evenly 
browned on both sides. Put the steak on a warm platter 
and add % cup milk and cream mixed to the gravy in the 
frying pan and a very little flour to thicken slightly. Let boil 
up once, and then pour over the steak, and serve at once. — 
[Mrs. B. H., Ore. 

Bread Dressing 

To 1 qt bread crumbs add 1 onion, chopped fine, salt, pepper 
and sage to taste, 1 or 2 beaten eggs, and fatty meat liciuor 
to moisten.— [Mrs. W. H. B., Cal. 

Oyster Dressing 

Mix together 1 qt stale bread crumbs, 1 pt finely chopped 
oysters, 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp melted butter, 1 teasp herbs, 
and milk enough to moisten. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 



'When roasting beef or pork, add some thick slices of raw 
carrot. They impart a delicious flavor to the meat and 
gravy. — [Mrs. B. L. G.. Ore. 



174 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Sauces for Meat, Poultry and Game 

Some Appropriate Combtnatioiis 

/.-Roast pork with apple sauce. 

Roast lamb with mint sauce. 

Roast beef with horseradish, piquant or Flemish sauce. 

Roast mutton with stewed gooseberries. 

Roast chicken with currant jelly. 

Roast goose with apple sauce. 
■^ Roast turkey with cranberry, chestnut, grape or plum sauce. 
' Roast duck with olive sauce. 

Roast venison with currant jelly. 

Boiled mutton with caper, or horseradish sauce. 

Boiled turkey with oyster, celery or mushroom sauce. 

Boiled venison with currant-bread sauce. 

Broiled steak with mushroom, or hot horseradish sauce. 

Broiled mackerel with stewed gooseberries, 
"iCodfish balls with apple sauce. 

Sweetbreads, tenderloins or pigeon pie with mushroom. 

Game with currant-bread sauce. 

Chops, outlets, or croquettes with tomato sauce. 
^Baked or boiled flsh with egg, parsley, oyster or tartars. 

Drawn Bntter Sance 

Melt % cup butter in a saucepan, add 2 tablesp flour, % 
teasp salt, a pinch of pepper, and when well blended, 1 pt hot 
water or hot clear soup stock. Stir rapidly until it thickens; 
then add another scant % cup butter, a little at a time, and 
continue stirring and cooking until the butter is all absorbed. 
This sauce can be made the basis of parsley, egg, caper, 
lemon, celery, shrimp, mustard, oyster, lobster and other 
sauces. 

White Sance 

Melt 2 rounding tablesp butter in a saucepan, adding the 
same quantity flour, and stirring until free from lumps. Then 
add 1 pt hot milk, pouring in less than half at first, and 
when it thickens rubbing and beating until entirely free from 
lumps. Then add the remainder of the milk, a very little 
yepper and % teasp salt, and let it boil up again. Half the 
milk may be replaced by clear soup stock, or cream may be 
used instead of milk, if a cream sauce is desired. White 
sauce may be used instead of drawn butter sauce, in any of 
the variations of drawn butter sauce, if a less rich sauce 
is desired. 



SAUCES FOR POULTRY AND GAME 175 



Browa Sauce 

Melt » rounding tablesp butter in a saucepan, adding the 
same quantity of flour, and stirring until nicely browned, but 
not burned. Then add 1 pt hot, dark soup stock, ^ teasp 
salt, a little pepper, and, 4f not dark enough, caramel (burnt 
sugar) enough to give the desired color. Cook until it thick- 
ens, rubbing out all lumps. The sauce will be better flavored 
if pot herbs, a bit of onion and a few peppercorns are added 
to the stock in its making. Brown sauce is made the basis 
of mushroom, chestnut, olive, peanut, Flemish, Cumberland, 
currant jelly, brown sauce piquant and various other sauces. 

Oiuon Sauce 

Boil 3 large onions until very tender; drain, and rub 
through a sieve; add to % pt white sauce made with cream, 
and serve with lamb or mutton chop. 

Mint Sauce 

Chop enough leaves and tender tops of mint to fill 1 cup 
(or use half the quantity of the dried leaves). Add % cup 
sugar, and % cup not-too-strong vinegar. Prepare an hour 
before using, to allow the vinegar to absorb the flavor of 
the mint. 

Tomato Sauce 

To 1 pt stewed tomatoes add a small chopped onion, a sprig 
of parsley, a bay leaf, blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste. 
While they are simmering for 15 minutes, melt 3 level tablesp 
butter and rub into it 1 tablesp flour. Strain the tomatoes 
through a sieve, add to the flour and butter, and boil until it 
thickens, stirring continually. 

H!ot Horseradish Sauce 

This sauce is nice for hot baked, fried, or boiled meats. 
To make it, melt 1 tablesp butter in a saucepan and stir in 1 
tablesp flour. Add 1 cup milk, or better, 1 cup chicken or veal 
broth, and boil for 5 minutes. Beat the yolk of 1 egg, add 
1 scant teasp each of sugar and made mustard, and % cup 
sweet cream. Draw the pan to the back of the stove and 
add the egg and milk, stirring until almost at the boiling point. 
Then add % cup grated horseradish and 1 tablesp vinegar or 
lemon juice, and simmer for 2 or 3 minutes. Use at once. 

Celery Sauce 

Clean and chop very fine 2 large heads of celery, reserving 
a few of the stalks to cut into inch lengths. Cover with cold 
water and cook until the celery is quite tender and the water 



176 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

nearly boiled away. Pick out the long pieces, and add 1 pt 
rich milk or cream, 1 level teasp salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Rub together 1 heaping tablesp each of butter 
and flour, add the beaten yolk of 1 egg, and stir into the 
milk. Let simmer for 10 minutes, adding the long pieces of 
celery, and serve with chicken or turkey. The egg is aot 
essential, but gives a better color to the sauce. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Shell 1 pt chestnuts and drop into boiling water 5 minutes. 
Slip off the skins, split open, and cook in salted water or stock 
until very tender. Rub through a sieve and add to the brown 
pan gravy from roast turkey. To make the sauce independent 
of the turkey gravy, brown 1 tablesp flour in 2 tablesp butter, 
pour in the water or stock in which the nuts were boiled, 
adding the mashed nuts, pepper and salt to season^ 

Made Mustard 

Mix together 2 tablesp mustard, 1 teasp each of sugar, flour 
- and salt, and % teasp pepper. Rub smooth in % cup cold 
vinegar, add % cup boiling water, and stir and copk until it 
thickens. 

Mustard Sauce 

For deviled turkey, salt fish, etc., this sauce is made by add- 
ing 3 tablesp made mustard, and a dash of cayenne to 1 pt 
drawn butter sauce. — [Mrs. A. B., Col. 

Spanish Sauce 

Peel and chop fine 2 or 3 large, ripe tomatoes and 2 onions, 
add 3 or 4 green chillis, seeds removed, and chopped fine, and 
treason with salt, and a little vinegar. This is usually serred 
with barbacued meat. — [Mrs. L. J., Cal. 

Fish Sauce 

Cook 3 or 4 ripe tomatoes with 1 tablesp butter, % an onion, 
cut fine, and salt and pepper to taste. When done rub through 
a sieve and gradually stir in 1 cup boiling milk. Thicken with 
a little flour. Pour around the fish on the platter and place in 
the oven for about 10 minutes. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Vinegar Cream Sauce 

Put 2 cups vinegar in a double boiler, mix 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 cup sweet cream, % cup mustard, and 1 teasp salt, and 
pour this mixture into the vinegar and let come to a boll. Then 
put in jar and seal. This will keep well in a cold place and 
is nice with cold meats, fish, etc. — [G. W. J. 




PRIZE WINNING PARAGON TOMATOES. 




FINE CELERY, PREPARED FOR SERVING. 




PARSNIPS EXHIBITED AT NEW YORK FAIR. 




CAULIFLOWER GROWN ON LONG ISLAND, N. Y, 




Potatoes, Vegetables and Salads, 

AREFUL cooking of vegetables and judi- 
cious mixing of salads are not the least part 
of culinary proficiency. Since vegetables 
are the most healthful of our food stuffs, 
they should be served freely, but in such 
shape that they may be easy of digestion 
and palatable. That responsibility rests 
with the cook. Salads are considered of less importance 
in food value, but as a relish they find a welcome place 
on the menu. It takes an "artist" to properly blend the 
ingredients for a salad dressing — quantities can only be 
suggested in a recipe — the rest is "up to" the cook. 

Potato Ways 

Do not always serve potatoes in the same old way. It would 
seem to be a very simple matter to boil a potato, and yet 
there is a proper and improper way of doing even this. First 
wash potatoes, then peel and drop in cold water, and If the 
tubers are old, let them stand in fresh cold water for an hour 
or two, to draw out the sharp flavor. Use an agate or por- 
celain-lined vessel. Cover the potatoes with fresh boiling 
water, add salt, cover closely, and boil briskly until done. Test 
with a sharp steel fork. When done, drain off water and put 
the pot on back of the stove to let the potatoes dry 
off, then cover with a clean napkin, to keep warm, but do not 
delay the serving any longer than necessary. When potatoes 
are to be boiled "in their jackets" — that is, without peeling — ■ 
wash them clean and follow the above directions. When done 
put them in a hot oven a few minutes to dry. To bake pota- 
toes, wash, place in a hot oven, and prick the skins with a 
sharp fork, to allow the steam to escape. Potatoes are also 
nice when baked with the roast meat. Peel and cut in uniform 
size, place around the roast during the last three-quarter hour, 
and baste potatoes along with the roast meat. 

Boiled potatoes for frying should not be too soft and mealy; 
cut in thin slices and fry In very hot drippings, turning so that 
they may be browned evenly; but do not have too many pota- 
toes in the pan at once, and be sure to have the fat hot, and 
fry quickly, otherwise the potatoes will soak grease and turn 

177 



178 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

out unpalatable and unwholesome. To fry raw potatoes slice 
them any thickness desired (for potato chips they should he 
cut very thin), dry thoroughly on a clean towel, and drop in 
smoking, hot fat, the same as doughnuts, turning to brown on 
both sides. Do not put too many potatoes in at once, as this 
would reduce the temperature of the fat and cause the pota- 
toes to soak grease. When done skim out the slices, lay them 
out on a piece of soft paper to soak up the superfluous fat, 
sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. They should be nice and 
crisp. Another way is to peel the potatoes and then peel 
them again, so as to have a long spiral ribbon, and bake these 
in deep hot fat. A very nice dish Is made of diced potatoes, 
salt pork and onions. Cut the pork in pieces, fry brown, and 
then add the potatoes and onions, and let all brown together. 
To prepare mashed potatoes, mash the potatoes after boiling 
and draining, ■ add hot milk and butter, and beat until light. 
If desired, the yolk of an egg may be added, and a little 
more milk, the mixture turned into a buttered pudding dish, 
rolled cracker or bread crumbs sprinkled over the top, with 
dots of butter, and put in the oren to brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Slice cold, boiled potatoes, put a layer in a buttered pudding 
dish, then a layer of cracker or bread crumbs, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, dot with butter, and so proceed until the 
dish is full, topping off with bread crumbs and butter. Put 
in milk enough to come almost to the top of the potatoes, and 
bake brown. Raw potatoes can be treated the same way, and 
if liked, some finely cut onions added, and salt pork fried 
brown; add either milk or clear soup stock for liquid. — [Mrs. 
C. G., N. D. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Cut large baked potatoes in two, lengthwise and scoop out 
the interior, keeping the shells whole. Mash the potatoes and 
to each one add 1 teasp grated cheese, 1 tablesp cream, and 
salt, pepper and butter to taste. Whip until light, heap into 
the shells, and return to oven to brown. Serve with a garnish 
of lettuce and hard-boiled eggs. — [Mrs. G. L. S., N. Y. 

Potato lioaf 

To 1 cup chopped suet add 2 qt chopped potatoes, 2 large 
onions, cut fine, 1 cup meat gravy or soup stock, or mUk and 
butter mixed, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover, and bake till done. Then remove the 
cover and brown the top. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 



SWEET POTATOES AND CORN 179 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Mash cold sweet potatoes and to each qt add 1 teasp salt, 2 
tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, and scant % cup rich milk, with 
a very little flour — just enough to handle. Shape into small 
biscuits, roll in flour, and fry brown on both sides in hot 
butter. — [Miss F. E. S., Ga. 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 

Peel large, short, sweet potatoes, and cut in half length" 
wise; scrape out one-third of the potatoes, and fill the cavities 
with pork sausage meat, then lay the halves together again, 
and fasten at each end with a wooden toothpick. Put in a 
baking pan with a little water, and bake until tender, with a 
moderate fire, basting occasionally. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

To 2 cups sugar add 1 cup water, and boil until It syrups, 
the same as for preserves, then remove from the fire and stir 
in 1 heaping tablesp butter. Slice boiled sweet potatoes into 
a buttered baking pan of the proper size, pour the syrup over 
them to almost cover, put extra bits of butter about on top 
of them, and bake about 1 hour, or longer, basting occasion- 
ally by tilting the pan and dipping up some of the liquid. Be 
careful not to let the top get dry. Serve hot in the pan in which 
it is baked. — [Mrs. P. A. D., Mo. 

Fried Com 

Cut tender corn from the cob and fry in a little sweet butter, 
just enough to keep the corn from sticking to the pan, stirring 
often. "When nicely browned, season with salt and pepper, and 
add a little sweet cream. Serve immediately. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Baked Com 

To 1 pt green corn cut from the cob, add 1 qt milk, 3 beaten 
eggs, 1 heaping tablesp butter, and salt to taste. Sprinkle a 
buttered pudding dish with cracker crumbs, pour in the corn 
mixture, cover with cracker crumbs, dot with butter, and bake 
slowly 1% hours. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Boiled Green Com 

Freshly gathered corn is best for boiling. It loses its 
sweetness if you wait too long after picking. Strip off the 
husks and silk, cut off the stem ends, and plunge into briskly 
boiling water to cover. Do not add any salt. Cover the kettle 



180 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and let boll fast, 20 minutes. Pile the corn up on a platter, 
cover with a clean towel, and serve at once, or cut from the 
cob, add pepper, salt, butter and a little cream. — [L. A. K., III. 

Dried Com 

Cook sweet com on the cob in salted water about 20 min- 
utes, then cut from the cob, spread on shallow plates, and dry 
very slowly in a rather cool oven. Put the dried corn in sacks 
and place in a warm, dry place. If in about 10 days the corn 
shows no signs of moisture it will keep well, but if any mois" 
ture remains in the corn, it will mildew. When wanted for 
use soak 1 pt dried corn in cold water over night, and if 
wanted for dinner, put over the fire about ten o'clock with a 
small piece of lean fresh pork, or salt pork, 1 doz potatoes, 
peeled and cut in small pieces, and water enough to cook.— • 
[Mrs. M. E. B., Wis. 

Salted Com and Beans 

Cook com on the cob, cut off and salt down in a glass 
Jar, allowing 1 cup salt to 4 cups corn. This will make 
its own brine, but if in 2 or 3 days there is not suflScient brine 
to cover, make a strong brine and cover, and weight down. 
When wanted for use put the desired quantity of corn in clear 
cold water, and put it on the back of the range where it will 
get lukewarm, and let stand 3 or 4 hours, after which drain, 
and if not too salt, add cream and butter, and cook. Beans, 
when fresh and tender, can be put down in salt the same 
way, only 'do not cook the beans first. — [Mrs. A. H., Col. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

There are many different ways of stewing tomatoes. I do 
not like my stewed tomatoes mixed with a lot of mushy bread 
or cracker crumbs. Peel ripe tomatoes, or use the peeled 
canned tomatoes. Boil until tender, but no longer, and do 
not add any seasoning until just before serving, and then add 
pepper, salt and butter, and thicken with a very little flour 
mixed to a smooth paste with cold water. Boil up once, and 
lastly add a very little sugar — not enough to make it sweet, 
but just enough to kill the sour taste. Never boil tomatoes 
any longer than absolutely necessary, and serve at once. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Creamed Tomatoes 

Let 1 at canned or fresh tomatoes come to a boil, then add 
1 heaping tablesp each flour and sugar, 1 teasp salt, and a 
pinch of soda, all mixed well with a little cold milk to a smooth 
paste. Let boil up once, then add 1 cup thick, sweet cream, 
and when heated through, serve at once. — [Mrs. A. B., Ore. 



TOMATOES AND CARROTS 181 



V Escalloped Tomatoes 



Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered pudding disb with bread 
crumbs, then fill up with ripe, peeled and sliced tomatoes, 
seasoning each layer with butter, pepper, salt and some minced 
onions, if liked. Cover thickly with bread crumbs, dot liber- 
ally with butter, and bake. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Pried Tomatoes 

Either ripe or green tomatoes may be used. Peel, cut cross- 
wise in half-inch slices, dip in beaten egg, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and a very little sugar, dip in flour and fry in hot 
butter. — [Mrs. E. A., N. H. 

Scrambled Tomatoes 

Peel % doz medium sized tomatoes, cut in small pieces, 
and put in a saucepan with butter size of an egg, salt, and a 
little pepper. Boil till soft, then stir in 4 beaten eggs, cook 2 
or 3 minutes longer, and serve at once. — [R. M. P., Mass. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Cut slice from stem end of tomatoes, remove pulp, and mix 
up with some minced onion, bread crumbs, beaten egg, and 
pepper and salt, and fill into the tomato shells. Put a lump of 
butter on each tomato, and bake in a buttered pudding dish. 
Another way is to mix with the tomato pulp some hulled corn, 
or rice, or macaroni with grated cheese. — [R. M, P., Mass. 

Baked Tomatoes and Onions 

Peel and cut up 6 medium sized green tomatoes and 3 
onions, add 1 qt water (or a litle less), 1 tablesp each salt, 
sugar, and butter, 2 tablesp vinegar, and % teasp pepper. 
Boil until tender, then turn into a buttered pudding dish, 
cover with 1 pt bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and 
bake. — [Mrs. H. M. S., Pa. 

Carrots 

Peel and cut carrots in very small pieces and put over the 
fire with a little water, salt and butter. Cook until tender, 
and when most all the water has cooked off, thicken the re- 
mainder with a little flour rubbed to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, and add a very little sugar. Onions may be stewed with 
the carrots, but in this case omit the sugar, and add pepper.^ 
[B. K., " 



182 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Carrot Fritters 

Mash. 2 boiled carrots, add 2 beaten eggs, 3 tablesp flour 
moistened with a little cream, and 1 teasp sugar. Drop by- 
spoonsful in hot fat and fry brown, like doughnuts. Serve 
hot and just before serving squeeze a little lemon or orange 
juice over each fritter, and dust with powdered sugar. — [S. 
E. W., O. 

Carrots and Peas 

Boil 1 pt carrots cut in dice, in enough water to cover, and 
after 10 minutes add 1 pt shelled green peas, and boll all 
together until tender. When done the water will be greatly 
reduced. Then add % cup cream, a little butter, pepper and 
salt, and thicken with a little corn starch or flour. Let boil 
2 or 3 minutes longer and serve. — [Mrs. H. H., Cal. 

Smothered Carrots and Onions 

Cut salt pork in small cubes and fry light brown, then add 
1 doz onions, and as many tender carrots, cut fine. Season 
well with salt and pepper, add 1 cup water, cover, and cook 
1 hour. — [Mrs. A. B., Me. 

Pickled Carrots 

Wash and scrape carrots and cook in salted water until 
tender, then cut In pieces of convenient size, and cover with 
hot vinegar, which may be sweetened and spiced, if liked, 
laet stand in this vinegar 2 days, before using. — [Mrs. L. A. 
G., Me. 

Minced Beets 

Remove the greens and wash the beets clean, but do not 
peel nor cut off the root or stem ends. Plunge into boiling 
water and boil rapidly until tender, then plunge into cold 
water. The skins can easily be slipped off after this treatment. 
Slice or chop, discarding the coarse and fibrous parts, and for 
1 qt beets allow 2 tabJesp butter, 2 tablesp sugar, salt to 
taste, and plenty of pepper, 2 to 4 tablesp vinegar, (according 
to taste), and 1 cup thin, sweet cream, poured over just 
before serving. Serve hot. — [L. R., Ind. 

Creamed Beets 

Cook until tender, then peel and chop coarsely. Add 1 cup 
cream to 1 qt beets, and season with salt and pepper. A little 
vinegar and sugar may be added, also some butter, and the 
creamed beets baked in the oven about 15 or 20 minutes. — 
[A. B. R.. N. H. 



TURNIPS, PARSNIPS AND PEAS 183 

Creamed or Mashed Turnips 

Peel turnips, then out up in small dice, discarding all tough 
and stringy parts. Cover with cold water, add salt, and boil 
until tender, then drain. Prepare a cream sauce of butter and 
milk thickened with a little flour, add the boiled diced turnips 
with salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once, or mash the 
turnips after draining, and add pepper and salt and butter to 
taste. — [A. G., Mass. 

^ Creamed Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnip, slice lengthwise in inch pieces, 
add boiling water to cover, salt, and boil till tender. If there 
is too much liquid pour a little of it off and add 1 cup milk, 
a little butter, salt and pepper, with a dash of sugar, if liked, 
and flour to thicken a little. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

Fried or Baked Parsnip 

Boil 4 large parsnips until tender, then drain and mash, 
add salt and pepper, butter the size of an egg, 3 beaten eggs, 
% cup sweet cream, and some bread crumbs to bind together, 
and fry like fritters, or bake in the oven. — [Mrs. G. McM., Cal. 

Steamed Green Peas 

Peas should be picked when young and tender, and cooked 
as soon after picking as possible, or they will lose flavor and 
sweetness. Fill a cheese cloth bag about two-thirds full of 
the shelled peas, and place in a colander, hung into a kettle 
of boiling water, and cover closely, but do not let the water 
touch the peas. Steam until done, which will take a little 
longer than boiling, but the peas will be much Bner and 
sweeter in flavor, than when boiled in water. When done add 
plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve, at once. — [Mrs. 
J. I. M., N. H. 

Lima Beans 

Fresh lima beans should be cooked immediately after gath- 
ering. Shell and cook till tender in water barely enough to 
cover, allowing most of the water to boil away. Then add 
salt and pepper to taste, and 1 cup rich sweet cream, or some 
butter. — [Mrs. L. O. M.. O. 

Baked Peas 

Ihis is a good recipe for the big, mealy peas. Parboil 1 qt 
ripe peas, then drain, and put in a bean pot with 1 lb salt 



184 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

pork, % teasp each pepper, salt, sugar and mustard, and enough 
cold water to cover the peas. Bake about 8 hours. — [Mrs. L. 
A. G., Me. 

Mashed (dried) Peas or Beans 

Soak 1 qt dried peas or beans in plenty water over night. 
Next morning drain and put them in a kettle with boiling 
water and boil 1 hour, then drain, add fresh boiling water, 
and boil 3 hours, after which mash through a colander, add 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a little thyme. Serve with 
browned onions. Nice served with ham and sauerkraut.— 
[N. P., N. H. 

'To Cook String Beans 

Cook immediately after gathering, wash and snap in small 
pieces and remove strings if there are any. Put on in cold 
water barely enough to cover, cover closely, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding a little butter or drippings and salt to 
taste. Another way is to boil them with salt pork. Do not 
use any more .water than necessary. — [A. G., Mass. 

Baked Beans 

Soak 1 qt white beans in cold water over night (15 or 16 
hours is none too long) . Next morning drain, cover with cold 
water, boil % hour, then add a pinch of soda, and let boil, 
uncovered, until skins crack; then drain. Meanwhile boil 
% or % lb salt pork about 20 minutes, then cut deep gashes 
crisscross in the top fat of the pork, and put the pork and 
the parboiled beans in a bean pot, so that the cut pork will 
be even wifh the top of the beans; also put 1 small onion, 
peeled, in with the beans. In a large cup mix % teasp ground 
mustard, 1 teasp salt, and % teasp pepper, with % cup molas- 
ses (or less), thinned with some of the liquor in which the pork 
was cooked, pour over the beans, (the liquid should almost 
come to the top of beans), and bake slowly about 8 hours. 
Tomato juice can be added instead of meat liquor. The bean 
pot should be of earthenware, and deep. If the liquid evap- 
orates too rapidly, add a very little hot water from time to 
time. During the last half hour increase the heat so that the 
top of the beans and the pork may brown nicely. Long soak- 
ing in cold water and long, slow baking are essential to suc- 
cess. — [A. G., Mass. 

Stuffed encumbers 

Peel large cucumbers, cut in half lengthwise, and remove 
seeds and soft pulp. Prepare a filling of 1 cup each minced 



SQUASH, CELERY AND CBLERIAC 185 

cold chicken and bread crumbs, 1 teasp each minced parsnip 
and onion, 1 tablesp melted butter, 2 tablesp cream, and salt 
and pepper to taste. If filling seems too stiff, add more 
cream. Pack this filling heaping full into the cucumber boats. 
Place side by side in a baking dish, and pour around them 
some well seasoned stock or gravy, or a little hot water and 
butter. . Cover and bake % hour, then uncover and brown.' 
Remove the cucumbers to a heated platter, thicken the gravy 
in the pan with a little browned flour, pour around the cucum- 
bers, and serve at once. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Fried or Baked Squash 

Peel tender squash, cut in strips as long and thick as the 
finger, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll in flour, and fry 
brown in hot drippings, then cover and cook slowly until 
tender. — [E. E. K., Me. 

Peel a round squash, cut a piece from the stem end, and 
remove the seeds and stuff the cavity with a filling made of 
bread crumbs, hard boiled eggs, cold ham, or some other kind 
of meat, and 1 beaten egg. Dot the top with butter, return 
the cover to the squash, put In baking pan with just enough 
water to keep from burning, and bake until tender. Squash 
is also nice cooked with a roast of meat, same as potatoes. — ' 
[Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

EscaUoped Squash 

Peel, remove seeds, and boil and mash squash. When cool 
add 2 beaten eggs, % cup milk, butter, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Pour into a buttered baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake. Serve hot. — [M. B., 111. 

Cooked Celery 

Trim and cut celery stalks in small pieces, reserving the 
tender inner parts to serve raw, and the greens for soup. 
Boil until tender in no more water than necessary, then season 
with salt and pepper, add butter and milk, and slightly thicken 
the gravy with a little flour. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Celeriac 

Not all housewives are acquainted with the turnip-rooted 
celery, or celeriac, • which is generally used for soups and 
stews. Here is another way. Pare and slice the root, add a 
medium sized onion, sliced thin, and boil till tender, then 
add a cream sauce, and let simmer on back of the range a 
few minutes, until ready to serve. — [Miss M. "W., Mass. 



186 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

To Cook Asparagus 

The usual way is to cook asparagus uncut, in water to cover, 
but in this way you are obliged to cook the tender heads just 
as long as the tough stalks. This is my way: Cut off all the 
tops and an inch or so of the tender top stalk, and lay these 
aside, then peel the bottom stalks, cut in one-inch lengths, and 
stew slowly % hour, adding a small pinch of soda, then add 
the tops and boil 10 or 15 minutes longer. Season with pepper 
and salt, and add butter and cream. — [Mrs. C. J., Ct. 

Egg Plant Ways 

Peel egg plant and cut in slices %-inch thick, sprinkle 
lightly with salt and let stand % hour, after which dip them 
in beaten egg, then in flour, and fry brown on both sides. — . 
[Miss A. E. H., Pa. 

Cut egg plants in half, scrape out the inside and put in a 
saucepan with 2 tablesp minced ham, water to cover, and boil 
until soft then drain, add 2 tablesp bread crumbs, 1 tablesp 
butter, ^ an onion, minced, % teasp salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Stuff each half of the egg plant with this mixture, 
top off with 1 teasp butter, and bake 15 minutes. — [Mrs. K. 
R. P., Tex. 

Pare and cut an egg plant in slices %-inch thick, cover 
with water, add a little salt, and stew until tender. Then 
drain, mash with a fork, add 2 beaten eggs, 4 tablesp sweet 
cream, a small pinch cayenne pepper, and flour enough to make 
a batter that will drop from a spoon, sifted with 1 teasp 
baking powder. Drop by spoonsful into hot lard or drippings, 
and fry brown on both sides. Serve with powdered sugar. — 
[Mrs. J. J. R. 

Boiled or Fried Rutabaga 

Peel and slice rutabaga, add water to cover, salt and pepper, 
1 tablesp lard, and a small pinch soda. Cook until tender, 
then remove cover^ and fry brown. — [C. O., N. D. 

Peel and slice rutabaga %-inch thick, and boil in slightly 
halted water until tender; then drain, roll in flour, and fry in hot 
drippings, adding salt and pepper to taste. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Baked Salsify or Oyster Plant 

Scrape and slice the salsify and cook till tender in slightly 
salted water. Then put in buttered baking pan alternate layers 
of bread crumbs and salsify, seasoning each layer with salt, 
pepper and butter. Fill the pan half full of sweet milk, and 
then add sweet cream until nearly full. Cover the top with 
bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake in a hot oven. A 
very little sugar added to the salsify is liked by some.— [Mrs. 
G. G., Mo. 



RADISHES, PEPPERS AND CABBAGE 187 



Stewed Radishes 

Wash, and scrape 3 or 4 bunches white radishes, cut in 
small pieces, cover with water, add a little salt and sugar, boil 
until tender, then drain, mash and add a little butter and 
cream. We like this better than turnips. — [Mrs. P. H. J., Ore. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Remove seeds from 6 large, sweet peppers. Put over the 
fire in cold water, bring to the boiling point, and then drain. 
Repeat this twice. Prepare a filling of 1 cup each boiled rice, 
cold meat, chopped fine, and tomatoes, cut fine, and % cup 
bread crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and onion. Fill the 
parboiled peppers with this mixture, sprinkle the tops with 
bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake in brisk oven % 
hour. Another way is to cut the parboiled peppers in slices, 
dip in a batter and fry brown on both sides. — [Mrs. D. D. 
P., Cuba. 

Creamed Baw Cabbage 

Select a solid and tender head of young cabbage and shave 
fine. Make a cream sauce of % cup thick, sweet, or sour 
cream, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 or 2 tablesp vinegar, and 2 tablesp 
fresh fried ham drippings. Beat this until foamy, then pour 
over the shaved cabbage, adding salt and pepper to taste. Nice 
to serve with roast pork and mashed potatoes. — [Mrs. F. B., 
N. Y. 

Escalloped Cabbage 

Trim a nice, tender head of cabbage, cut in quarters, and 
cook in slightly salted water about 20 minutes, then drain, 
chop fine, and mix with a dressing made of 4 tablesp butter, 
creamed with 4 tablesp flour, and 1 qt hot milk, stirring con- 
stantly, and when the flour is done add 6 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the cabbage 
and cream mixture into a buttered baking pan, sprinkle the 
top with bits of butter and bake in a quick oven about 15 min- 
utes. — [Mrs. H. J. H., Col. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Trim off the outer leaves and remove the heart from a fine 
head of tender young cabbage, so as to leave a shell of cabbage 
about 1 inch thick. Fill the cavity with cold, chopped chicken, 
veal, pork or beef, mixed with a little cold chopped potatoes, 
if liked, also the beaten yolk of an egg, and seasoned well with 
salt and pepper. Cover with several crisp cabbage leaves well 
tucked in at the top, tie in cheese cloth, and boil 2 hours. — > 
[Mrs. J. D. C, Cal. 



188 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Stewed Bed Cabbage 

Trim a small head of red cabbage and shavc ^ne. Put Into 
a granite kettle 1 beaping tablesp lard or drippings, and when 
hot put in the shaved cabbage, and a small onion pierced with 
3 or 4 whole cloves, 1 teasp salt, 1 tablesp sugar, % cup 
boiling water, and scant % cup vinegar. Cover closely and 
stew slowly about 2 hours, stirring often to prevent scorching. It 
it seems to get too dry add a little more boiling water. White 
cabbage may be prepared the same way, omitting the cloves 
and sugar, and adding % teasp caraway seeds, if that flavor 
is liked. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Hot Slaw 

Put some drippings into a deep frying pan, and when hot 
add finely shaved raw cabbage, and mix thoroughly. When 
the fat has become well mixed with the cabbage, cover the 
pan closely and set on the side of the range to simmer slowly 
until tender. The steam will furnish sufficient moisture, but 
if there is danger of scorching, add a very little hot water. 
About 15 minutes before serving add pepper, salt and vinegar 
to taste. — [A. G., Mass. 

Stewed Cauliflower 

Select a nice, fresh head of cauliflower, break it apart, trim 
the stem ends carefully, and let stand a few minutes in cold, 
slightly salted water, then drain and put in a granite stew pan 
with cold, slightly salted water, and let boil till tender. It 
is a good plan to tie the cauliflower in a net, so that it can be 
lifted out of the boiling water when done, without breaking 
the flower. Prepare a cream sauce of milk and butter, thicken 
with a little flour, and season with salt and pepper. A beaten 
egg, may be added, if liked. Pour this over the cauliflower, 
and serve at once. — [Mrs. M. M. B., Mo. 

To Cook Sauerkraut 

Wash sauerkraut in cold water to freshen just right to 
taste, then put on 1 qt saukerkraut with % cup lard or drip- 
pings and a little water to prevent scorching. Cover closely and 
stew slowly until tender, adding a very little hot water if 
necessary. II is a mistake to wash the sauerkraut too much 
or to parboil it as this leaves nothing but a wilted, tasteless 
mass. Plenty of fat and slow boiling are necessary. Serve 
with boiled or roast pork, and mashed potatoes. — [A. G., Mass. 



ONIONS AND SPINACH 189 



Creamed Onions 

Take young onions before they are full grown, cut off tops 
and roots, peel, and boil in slightly salted water until tender; 
then drain. Hake a cream sauce of milk, butter and beaten 
egg, thickened with a little flour, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Cook until smooth, and then pour over the boiled 
onions. When the onions are older and stronger, the first 
water, after boiling 5 minutes, should be poured off and the 
onions boiled in fresh water until tender. — [Mrs. G. W., N. 0. 

Fried Spring Onions 

Fry a few slices of bacon or salt pork until well browned, 
then remove from the pan and put into the hot fat green 
onions, cut up into inch lengths. When the onions are well 
fried push them to one side of the pan and add about 1 
tablesp flour to the' gravy, and when smooth add 1 pt boiling 
water. Mix well, boil 1 minute, then serve. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Baked Onions 

Peel large onions and boil 1 hour in slightly salted water, 
then drain and put them in a shallow buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, dot each onion with butter, 
pour a little milk in the pan, cover the onions with bread 
crumbs, and bake slowly 1 hour. Another way is to put 
alternate layers of onions and bread crumbs in a pudding dish, 
season with pepper, salt, and butter, and moisten with milk. — > 
[N. P., N. H. 

Onion Gravy 

Peel and slice fine 2 onions and let them simmer in a pan 
with 3 or 4 tablesp lard or drippings, until tender, taking care 
not to burn. Then add 2 or 3 level tablesp flour, salt and pepper 
to taste, and 2 cups milk. Let come to a boll, then add 1 
well-beaten egg. — [Mrs. H. A. S., Ala. 

Boiled or Baked Spinach 

Pick and wash <spinach carefully and boil aoout 15 or 20 
minutes. It will require very little water, if any, as greens 
boil down very much, and the water which clings to the leaves 
after washing is almost enough to cook them. When done 
pour in a colander to drain, chop lightly, and pick out all the 
tough stem ,parts. Return to the kettle with butter and salt 
and pepper to taste, or use the frying fat from ham. Heat 
thoroughly and serve at once with a garnish of hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced. Another way is to put the boiled spinach In a 



190 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



buttered baking dish, slice tlie hard-boiled eggs on top, cover 
with a cream sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, and pepper 
and salt, then with a layer of bread crumbs, dot with bits of 
butter, and bake until brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Dandelion, Cowslip, and Dock 

The leaves, stalks and buds of cowslips can be used. Wash 
and pick over carefully, parboil about 10 minutes in boiling 
water, to which add % teasp soda, then drain, and boil until 
tender with some lean salt pork. Just before serving, add 
vinegar, salt and pepper. Dandelions should be picked before 
blossoming time. Wash, and discard the little stems or 
buds that would turn to blossoms, boil until tender, then drain 
and season with salt, pepper and butter. Use the leaves only 
of narrow dock, and prepare the same as cowslips. The addi- 
tion of a few horseradish leaves is an Improvement. — [Mrs. 
G. M. N., N. Y. 

Svriss Chard 

When the leaves are large and plenty of stalk or stem, 
strip the leaves from the stems, and treat the latter as follows: 
Cut In short pieces and cook with a very little water until the 
stalks are tender and the water has almost all boiled away. 
Then pour over as much milk as you want soup, bring to a 
boil, thicken with a little cornstarch, add 1 or 2 well-beaten 
eggs, with seasoning to taste. This tastes like oyster soup. 
The greens can be boiled the same as spinach. — [Mrs. C. I. D., 
Cal. 

Beet Greens 

Cut % lb cold boiled ham in dice and fry in 1 tablesp butter 
with % an onion minced fine, then add 2 tablesp hot vinegar, 
and pour this sauce over beet greens which were boiled in hot 
salted water until tender, and then drained and chopped fine. 
Serve hot with poached eggs on top of the greens. — [Mrs. C. 
J. M., Neb. 

Okra Ways 

Cut the stems from 1 at okra and cut the pods into pieces 
% inch thick; add 1 pt tomatoes, and 1 cup corn cut from the 
cob, and cook until tender. Season with butter, salt and pep- 
per. Another way is to take the small tender pods of okra, 
stem and wash, and while wet, roll in flour, sprinkle with salt 
and fry in hot fat. For a stew put the okra on with enough 
hot water to cover, and when well done, drain, and season 
to taste with pepper, salt, butter and vinegar. — [A. G., Mass. 



SALAD DRESSINGS AND GARNISHES 191 



Gumbo is made by taking equal quantities of young okra 
chopped fine, ripe tomatoes peeled and chopped, 1 or 2 onions, 
minced, a lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Add 
1 or 2 tablesp water if necessary, and stew until tender. — 
[Mrs. P. A. D., 111. 

This is the way I prepare okra. To 1 qt okra add 1 qt 
tomatoes, 6 onions, 3 green peppers, and 8 or 4 slices of bacon. 
Boil until done, season with salt and pepper. — [P. J. S., Tex. 

Peel onions under water to prevent the shedding of tears. 
To kill onion and cabbage odor while cooking, set a small, 
open dish of vinegar on the back of the stove. — [A. G., Mass. 

Salad Garnishes 

Almost anything in the line of fresh greens, potatoes, vege- 
tables, fruits, flsh, meat, nuts, etc., can be dished up as salad 
and make a very presentable as well as palatable dish, with 
the aid of a nice salad dressing and garnishes. It is well to 
have some prepared salad dressing always ready to hand — 
stored In glass fruit jars it will keep some time in a cool place. 
If too thick, thin with cream. For garnishes use crisp leaves 
of lettuce, parsley, or celery, slices of lemon, red beets out in 
fancy shapes, radishes, hard-boiled eggs, slices of cucumber, or 
small pickles cut in half lengthwise. The ingenious cook with 
an eye to the beautiful can easily convert whatever material 
she may happen to have at hand to decorative purposes. 



Salad Dressings 

French Dressing: To Vz teasp salt add % teasp pepper, a 
few grains of cayenne, a very little mustard, 6 tablesp olive oil, 
and 3 to 6 tablesp lemon juice or vinegar, according to taste. 
Put together in the order named, adding the oil and vinegar 
gradually, and beating well, until all the ingredients are well 
combined. A little onion juice may be added, if liked. — [A. 
G., Mass. 

Cream Dressing: Mix well together % cup each sour cream, 
sugar and vinegar, with a dash of salt, using a little more sugar 
if the cream and vinegar are very sour, or diluting the latter 
with a very little water. Nice for lettuce. — [E. L., Neb. 

Cabbage Dressing: Boil together a few minutes Vz cup each 
sugar and vinegar, and % tablesp butter, then add 1 cup sour 
cream and 1 beaten egg, and boil a few minutes longer. Let 
get cold. — [L. P., 111. 



192 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Boiled Dressing: Mix well together and boil 5 minutes: 
1 beaten egg, 1 level teasp each, salt and mustard, 2 teasp sugar, 
1 tablesp eaeli butter and vinegar, and % cup sour cream. — 
[Mrs. B. A., N. H. 

Piquant Dressing: Rub together % cup butter and 1 heap- 
ing tablesp flour, add 2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, % teasp 
each mustard and pepper, and a dash of cayenne pepper, and 
when creamy gradually add 1 cup warm vinegar, and cook 
slowly until it thickens. Will keep a long time. Nice for 
.any salad. — [Mrs. W. A. M., O. 

Bgg Dressing: Mix together 2 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp corn- 
starch, 1% teasp mustard and % teasp salt. Heat 1 pt milk 
to the boiling point, add 2 tablesp butter, stir in 2 beaten eggs 
with the above dry ingredients, and lastly add 1 cup vinegar. 
Beat and stir well to prevent curdling while cooking. Will 
thicken like custard. When cold put in glass fruit jar. — [Mrs. 
M. M., Wis. 

Mustard Dressing: Mix well 1 cup sugar, %, cup flour, 1 
teasp salt, and ^ lb mustard. Rub to a smooth paste with a 
little cold vinegar, then add gradually the remainder of 3 
pts vinegar, heated to boiling point, and cook 5 minutes. 
Should be the consistency of thick cream. — [L. P., Neb. 

Mayonnaise Dressing: Mix together % teasp each salt and 
mustard and 1 teasp powdered sugar, add the raw yolks of 2 
eggs, and % teasp vinegar, then, drop by drop, % cup olive 
oil, stirring vigorously, and as the mixture thickens, add 
gradually, alternating with the oil, 1 tablesp each vinegar and 
lemon juice. Have all ingredients cold and beat the mixture 
constantly. — [Mrs. D. W. R., Mich. 

Boiled Mayonnaise: Beat 2 raw eggs, add 2 tablesp each 
sugar and butter, % teasp mustard, % teasp salt, a little white 
pepper, and 8 tablesp vinegar. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Nice for vegetable salad. For fruit salad use 
more sugar and dilute the vinegar with water. Thin with 
cream when ready to use. Adding whipped cream makes it 
nice and fluffy. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. 

Potato Salad 

Ths potatoes must be cold, and not too soft or mealy. Cut 
in dice or slices. Add a little finely minced onion, if liked, 
and if obtainable, crisp, tender celery, cut fine. Use any pre- 
ferred dressing — French or mayonnaise, and garnish disli with 
a "frill" of lettuce leaves, inside of that a "chain" of sliced, 
hard-boiled eggs, then cubes or diamonds of red beets, varied 
with tiny tips of parsley, and a few slices of cucumber, pickles, 
or lemon. — [A. G., Mass. 



FISH AND MEAT SALADS 193 

Cabbage Salad 

Shave about 1 qt white cabbage and sprinkle lightly with 
salt. Cut % lb smoked ham in dice, and fry brown and crisp; 
then add % cup cider vinegar and when thoroughly heated 
through turn over the shaved cabbage, to which has been added 
1 finely minced onion; add pepper to taste. Another way is 
to use half cabbage and half cold boiled potatoes, or half cab- 
bage and half celery, with any preferred cold dressing. — > 
[Mrs. F. B., N, Y. 

Vegetable Salad 

For this, all sorts of mixed vegetables can be used, such as 
boiled peas, beans, beets, carrots, potatoes, raw cucumbers, to- 
matoes, cabbage, celery, onions, and even a few tart apples. 
Use any preferred dressing, serve on a platter of lettuce 
leaves, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Exact quantities 
cannot be given — ^the skill of the cook must be called into play, 
for the "blending" is a nice art. — [A. G., Mass. 

Meat Salad 

Chicken, turkey, ham, veal — in fact, any boiled meat can be 
made up into nice salads. Trim and cut up in small pieces, 
add potatoes and celery, or cabbage, or cucumbers, also cut 
in small pieces, mix with any preferred dressing and garnish 
with lettuce, pickles and hard-boiled eggs. — [A. G., Mass. 

Fish Salad 

Salmon, herring, sardines, or almost any flsh, also crabs ah* 
lobsters, make excellent salad. Mix wiih chopped cabbage, 
celery, cucumbers or pickles, hard-boiled eggs and potatoes, all 
cut to uniform size, and use any preferred dressing and gar- 
nish. A nice herring salad is made as follows. Soak 1 doz 
salt herrings in water over night, and next morning wash again 
and cut fine, add 1 doz large, tart apples and % doz large, 
white onions, 3 lbs boiled veal or chicken, scant % cup sugar, 
1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp pepper, and vinegar to taste. Let stand 
a few hours. — [A. H., Wis. 

Egg Salads 

Hard-boiled eggs, cut in half, each part served on a crisp 
lettuce leaf, with a spoonful of mustard dressing, is one way 
of serving them. Another way is to take out the yolks, after 
boiling and cutting in half lengthwise, and mix same with 
some minced sardines, ham or chicken, seasoning to taste, and 
return to the white boats, with a spoonful of dressing on eack, 
[A. G., Mass. 



194 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Tomato Salad 

Sliced tomatoes and cucumbers make a nice salad, with a 
French dressing. Should be served immediately after mixing, 
and be real cold. Another way is to peel ripe tomatoes with 
a sharp knife, cut a slice off stem end, carefully scoop out the 
pulp, and mix same with chopped cucumbers and a dressing, 
and return to the tomato shells. — [A. G., Mass. 

Wilted or Dutch Lettuce 

Trim and clean and break apart 2 or 3 crisp heads of 
lettuce, slice in 4 or 5 green onions with the tender stalks, 2 
or 3 boiled potatoes, 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Cut about 2 oz fat salt pork in small cubes 
and fry crisp, then add 1 cup vinegar, let it boil up and pour 
it over the lettuce mixture and mix well with a wooden fork 
and spoon. Tender young dandelion greens can be used the 
same way. — [Mrs. G. M. N., N. Y. 

Waldorf Salad 

Chop or cut fine 1 bunch of tender, crisp celery, the same 
quantity of fine flavored apples, add 1 cup walnut meats, cut 
small (or any other nuts, even chestnuts, boiled) and mix with 
any preferred salad dressing. This is most delicious. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Banana Salad 

Take large, ripe bananas, peel and cut in half lengthwise. 
Allow one piece for each person, and place on crisp lettuce 
leaf. Put 2 tablesp ground salted peanuts on the banana, and 
cover all with a thick mayonnaise dressing, containing but little 
mustard, but plenty cream. Delicious. — [E. M. B., Mich. 

Fruit Salads 

Almost an unlimited variety of delicious fruit salads may be 
made in combination with the following foundation: Soak 1 
tablesp clear granulated gelatine in 1 cup cold water and add 
1 cup sugar. If you have fruit juice of any kind on hand, put 
1 pt over fire to heat to the boiling point, and pour on the 
soaked gelatine, and stir until dissolved. If you have no fruit 
juice, use water, then pour over the fruit and put in a cool 
place to harden. Delicious fruit combinations are: Oranges, 
bananas and pineapple, or grated pineapple alone, or grated 
pineapple and chopped nuts, or canned cherries alone, or 
canned peaches, canned pears, and pineapple, or pineapple and 
strawberries, or any combination of the above, and canned 
apricots, raspberries, or indeed, any fruit. I save the ]ulces 
from canned fruits when I make pies, to use to dissolve the 
gelatine, or when canned fruits are used for the salad, pour 
off the juice and use it in this way. Serve fruit salad with 
whipped cream. — [Mrs. C. W. K., 111. 




Bevers^es and Syfups 

OLD water would suffice as a beverage for 
man, were he minded to so limit himself, 
and providing the water was pure, the cause 
of good health would certainly be better 
served by abstinence from some of the con- 
coctions and brews that have followed in 
the wake of civilization. However, this is not saying that 
water is the only healthful drink. When properly made, and 
not indulged in to excess, the beverages prepared according 
to the following recipes will be found to be not only harm- 
less, but pleasant, nutritious and refreshing — making all 
due allowances for those who, on account of some organic 
trouble or physical disability, have been cautioned by their 
physicians to abstain from certain drinks. 

Drinking Water 

It is of the utmost importance that water used for drinking 
and cooking should be absolutely pure. To be careless about 
this matter is to invite malaria, typhoid and many other dan^ 
gerous diseases. If any doubt exists as to the purity of the 
water, which supplies your family, have it examined. Often 
this question of drinking water is the hinge on which the 
whole subject of health turns. Filters require great care and 
close attention to secure absolute cleanliness, by frequent 
changes of the filtering material, or they will only make a 
bad matter worse. The safest way is to boil water, when its 
purity is doubtful, and cool it in clean, tightly corked bottles. 
Boiling destroys disease germs. 

The well or source of water supply should on no account 
be situated anywhere near to barn, stable, cesspools, manure 
heaps, earth closets, or any other possible means of contam- 
ination, since the fluid from these filters through the earth 
and Is often carried considerable distances, finally joining 
veins or springs of water that flow to the well. Look into 
this water question most carefully, and spare neither trouble 
nor expense to make it right. Remember, there is no health- 
ful substitute for pure water — nature's provision for one of 
man's chief needs. 

195 



196 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Milk and Its Care 

Milk, though classed as a beverage, is in reality a food. 
However, milk alone, as a food, would not suffice for the 
average adult, who requires well-balanced food, in which the 
liquid does not exceed the other needful food elements, but 
when milk is taken with a meal, less other food is required. 
Raw milk should be sipped very slowly, and if a very little 
lime or barley water is added, it can be retained and digested 
by the most delicate stomach. 

The question of cleanliness in the handling and storing of 
milk is as important in its relation to health as is the water 
question. Milking should be done under the strictest sanitary 
iconditions. Negligence in this respect is positively criminal. 
That lawmakers have been obliged to force this issue is not 
creditable to farmers and dairymen, for in these days of 
enlightenment and free information and scientific researches, 
they cannot even plead ignorance as an excuse. Many a child 
has gone to an untimely grave because of some one's lack of 
conscience in this matter. However, it is not alwaj^s the 
dairyman who is responsible— often the housewife or mother 
is to blame, for though the milk may come to her hands pure, 
her negligence may cause the greatest mischief. 

Milk is one of the best soils for the growth and multiplica- 
tion of certain disease germs — Whence the great need of cleanli- 
ness, from the time it is yielded by a healthy cow, until it is 
consumed. It would take a full chapter to do justice to this 
question of the sanitary care and handling of milk, but any- 
one who is not an idiot can figure it out for himself and there- 
fore, no more need to be said about it here. One more caution 
— remember that milk readily absorbs odors and flavors, so 
be sure to always keep it tightly sealed. 

Konmiss 

Koumiss is frequently ordered by physicians tor patients 
who are convalescent an who require an easily digested and 
nutritious tonic. It is prepared as follows: Heat pure, fresh 
milk to'a,bout 100 degrees, then add to each qt 1% tablesp 
sugar, 1 tablesp fresh, lively yeast or a liberal % cake of 
fresh compressed yeast, dissolved in 1 tablesp lukewarm 
water, stir until thoroughly mixed, and then put in pint bottles 
to within about 2 inches of the top, and cork tightly and tie 
the corks down securely. Let stand from 10 to 12 hours in a 
temperature of about 60 to 70 degrees, after which it will be 
ready for drinking. Keep in a cool place and chill before 
using. The average dose for an adult is 1 glass, three times 
a day. Do not prepare too much koumiss at once, as it is 
not good when it gets old. One qt milk, with the other 



TEA AND COFFEE 197 

Ingredients, will be about enough for 3 pt bottles, and more 
than that should not be prepared at one time for only one 
parent. — [A. G.. Mass. 

Egg-Nogg 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 or 3 tablesp powdered sugar 
to a cream, add the beaten whites and a little grated nutmeg, 
^ cup cream, stirring well, and gradually 1 pt fresh milk. 
Vanilla flavor may be used instead of nutmeg, if liked. SerTe 
very cold. — [A. G.. Mass. 

Tea 

The water for tea should be drawn fresh and brought to a 
quick boil and used immediately. Stale water that has lost 
Its sparkle, or water that has been standing in the kettle will 
not make good tea. Of course, teapot and kettle should be 
kept scrupulously clean. Rinse the teapot (china or earthen- 
ware), with boiling water, put in 1 teasp tea for each cup 
or person to be served, pour on the boiling water (water 
must be boiling furiously), cover the teapot closely, and set 
on back of range to steep from 3 to 5 minutes, but no longer, 
and serve at once. Over-steeped tea is not healthful, and even 
dangerous, while properly prepared tea is harmless and mildly 
stimulating. If too strong, add hot water to each cup when 
pouring, and if not strong enough, use more tea. Serve 
with unboiled cream. If a good tea leaf was used, and these 
directions are faithfully followed, a delicious and refreshing 
brew will be the result. Always keep the dry tea in a closed 
canister and never allow left-over tea to remain in teapot. 
For iced tea, pour the freshly made tea from the leaves into 
a pitcher and let cool, after which add ice and serve as soon 
as chilled. — [Mrs. J. C, N. Y. 

Coffee 

There are three methods of preparing coffee^one by filter- 
ing, the other by boiling, and the other by the careless process 
which produces a muddy and ill-flavored concoction which is 
as harmful as it is unpalatable. In the first place, the water 
should be freshly boiled (see directions for tea), and the 
coffee pot must be immaculately clean — of china, earthen or 
graniteware. Never allow left-over coffee to stand in the 
coffee pot and scald the latter about once a week, adding 
a little soda to the water. The coffee pot should be rinsed 
with boiling water, and the fresh water for the coffee be boil- 
ing furiously. If a filtered coffee is desired, use a regular 
fllterer or a homemade one, consisting of a round cheesecloth 



198 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



bag with a wire run through the hem at the top, the circle 
a little wider than the top of the coffee pot, so that when the 
bag is suspended in the pot, the edge of the bag may turn 
over the edge of the pot, and permit the cover to be put 
on, and put 1 tablesp finely-ground coffee for each cup or 
person to be served into the fllterer, and pour over the freshly 
boiling water. Keep the coffee pot standing in another pot 
of boiling water, to keep hot. The filtered coffee may be 
turned over the grounds in the fllterer for a second time, to 
extract all the strength, and the coffee should then be served 
at once, with rich, boiling hot milk, or thick, sweet uncooked 
cream. 

The coffee for filtering should always be ground very fine, 
but for boiled coffee, it should be ground coarse. For the 
latter put the coffee right into the pot, pour over the boiling 
water, cover closely, let boil up 1 minute, then move to back 
of stove and let draw 5 minutes, but no longer, pour off 
carefully through a fine sieve into another hot coffee pot, 
and serve at once. If properly prepared, the coffee will not 
be muddy and no egg nor shells will be required to "settle" 
it. The "settling," if necessary, is accomplished just as well 
with a dash of cold water. A good quality coffee, well roasted, 
is essential to good results. Do not grind a lot of coffee at 
once, and keep the beans in a tightly covered canister, so that 
they may not take on any other flavors, and that none of 
the aroma escapes. If the beans are in the slightest degree 
damp, they will be hard to grind. They can be made fresh 
and crisp by placing in a hot oven a few minutes, and cooling 
quickly. — [Mrs. J. C. N. Y. 

Cereal Coffee 

The directions which are printed on the package in which 
cereal coffee is bought should be carefully followed, and the 
same rules for tea and coffee, regarding fresh water and clean 
pots, are applicable here too. Cereal coffee requires long 
cooking, and when properly prepared is not only harmless, 
but delicious, nutritious and easily digested. — [A. G., Mass. 

Homemade Cereal Coffee 

To 1 qt wheat bran add 1 pt corn meal, % cup molasses, 
and 1 egg. Mix well together, then spread in a pie pan about 
% inch thick, and brown slowly and evenly in the oven. 
Watch carefully, as it burns easily, and if burned it would spoil 
the flavor. Some people like to add a very little butter or 
salt to the mixture. When browned and dry, store in covered 
tin cans. To make coffee use 1 cup of this cereal mixture for 
1 qt coffee, and let boil 1 hour or more — it requires long 



CHOCOLATE AND LEMONADE 199 

'boiling to bring out tlie flavor. If desired, 1 tablesp ground! 
coffee may be added during the last 5 minutes of boiling. Serve 
■with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. V. R. L., Pa. 

Cocoa and Cocoa Shells 

Use half and half scalded milk and boilini, water tn a 
double boiler, allow 1 level teasp each of cocoa powder and 
sugar for each cup of liquid, mix these well in a cup, fill gradu- 
ally with the hoiling mixture, stirring to free from lumps, and 
then turn into the rest of the milk, boil 5 minutes, and serve 
at once, with or without extra thick, sweet cream. First 
hoiling the cocoa in the water and then adding the scalded 
milk is an improvement. Cocoa shells or "nibs" are cheap 
and make a delicious drink. Be sure they are fresh. Allow 
% cup cocoa shells or more to 1 qt boiling water and boil 
gently at least 3 hours, then strain and serve hot with cream 
and sugar. A little vanilla flavor added to cocoa or cocoa 
shell "tea," after removing from fire, is liked by come. — [A. 
V. N.. N. Y. 

Chocolate 

Allow 2 ozs hitter chocolate for 1 qt boiling water and 
scalded milk — half and half — and 4 level tablesp sugar. 
Melt the chocolate and sugar in a very little hot water, stir 
smooth, then gradually add the rest of the hoiling water and 
hoil 5 minutes, after which add the scalded milk and boil 
from 3 to 5 minutes longer, stirring to prevent boiling over 
and a skin from forming on the top. — [A. V. M., N. Y. 

Quick Lemonade 

Melt 1 lb sugar with enough water to prevent burning, and 
hoil till it spins a thread, then add the juice of 1 doz lemons, 
and the thin yellow rind of 3 or 4 lemons. Let the mixture 
heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to come to a boil. When, 
cool, bottle and seal. Use 1 tablesp for each glass of lemon- 
ade. Candy or dry the rest of the lemon rinds. Nice for 
seasoning. — [Mrs. E. W. A., Minn. 

Lemonade and Orangeade 

Make a syrup hy boiling together sugar and water, and wheB 
cool use this to sweeten. A very, very little of the thin yellow 
rind of the fruit may be cooked in the syrup. Allow juice of 
1 lemon or orange for 1 glass water, (or both mixed — half 
and half) sweeten with the sugar syrup, chill with ice, and 
serve at once. — [A. G., Mass. 



see FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fruit Shrub 

To 1 qt mashed, ripe fruit add 1 qt -water, 2 oza tartaric 
acid, and let stand 24 hours, then strain, and to each pt liquid 
add 1 pt sugar Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then put In 
bottles and let stand 2 days before corking and sealing. — [E. 
W. L., W. Va. 

Currant, Baspberry or Strawberry Shrub 

Pick and wash 6 qts of the fruit, put in a jar, cover with 
3 pts good elder vinegar, let stand 10 hours, then bring to the 
scalding point, strain, and to each pt juice add 1 lb sugar and 
boll 15 minutes. Pour Into bottles, cork tightly and seal. 
This Is an excellent hot weather beverage. Use %. cup syrup 
for 1 pt water. — [Mrs. E. M. H., Wis. 

Pineapple Shrub 

Pare 1 large, ripe pineapple, cut out the "eyes," chop fine, 
eweeten to taste, add 1 gal water, and let stand 3 days in a 
temperature of about 90 degrees, or until it begins to ferment. 
Bottle, cork tightly, and seal securely. Allow 2 tablesp of this 
shrub for 1 glass water. — [M. B., 111. 

rnit Punch 

the juice of 1 doz oranges and % doz lemons, add 1 
pineapple (fresh, grated, or canned), 2 ripe bananas, cut fine, 
and any other juicy fruit or berry In season. Add water and 
ice, and sweeten to taste. — [Mrs. F. S. T., Ct. 

Tea Punch 

To 1 qt cold tea (not strong), add the juice of 2 lemons 
and 1 orange, 2 scant cups sugar, and 1 pt seltzer or soda 
water. Cool with ice. A few raspberries, strawberries or chips 
of pineapple may be added. If liked. — [Mrs. D. W. B., N. Y. 

Harvest Punch 

On very hot days, when the harvest hands are working In 
the field, and the water jug Is sent in to be replenished, mix 
with the water, % cup each sugar and elder vinegar and 1 
level tablesp ginger. The harvesters will surely appreciate 
this. — [No Name. 

Blackberry and Blueberry Cordials 

Simmer blackberries with a very little water until they are 
soft, then strain, and to each pt juice add 1 lb sugar, % oa 



GRAPE JUICE AND SYRUPS 201 

cinnamon, scant % oz mace, and 2 teasp extracts of clovea 
Boil 15 to 20 minutes, stirring often, then cool, bottle, cork 
and seal. — [Mrs. F. S. T., Ct. 

To 2 qts blueberries add 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, and boil 
10 minutes, then strain, and when cold, bottle, cork and seal. — i 
[Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

To Keep Cider 

Hake the cider of nice, sound apples, and while still fresh, 
strain, and heat, skimming the scum as it rises, but do not 
boil. Fill the hot cider into glass fruit jars, and seal air 
tight. This will come in handy in summer time for the harvest 
hands. — [No Name. 

Gaimed Grape Juice 

Pick over and wash some nice ripe grapes, add a very little- 
water and cook as for jelly. When soft, strain through a jelly 
bag, but do not squeeze the bag, as this would cloud the 
liquid. To each pt strained juice add 1 cup sugar, boil 2 or 3 
minutes, skim, bottle, cork, and seal while hot. When wanted 
for use, mix with an equal amount of water. The sugar may 
be omitted, if desired — many dyspeptics are ordered to drink 
unsweetened grape juice. Must be sealed in air-tight jars. — i 
[K. A. D., N. D. 

Syrups 

Use only the best sugar and soft, filtered water, if possible,, 
as this will save the trouble of clarification, which is necessary 
when inferior ingredients are used. Pour the water cold over 
the sugar, and let it slowly melt. Boil by gentle heat, and 
then keep simmering until it syrups. Buy the essence and 
tincture from a reliable druggist. 

To make plain syrup, add to 6 lbs sugar % gal water. Boil 
until thoroughly dissolved and syrupy, and then filter. 

To make clove syrup add to 1 lb plain syrup 30 drops 
quintessence of cloves. Bottle and shake well before using. 
To make orange syrup add to 1 lb plain syrup 2 ozs tincture 
of orange peel. For pineapple syrup add to 1 gal plain 
syrup % oz tartaric acid and 1 oz essence of pineapple. For 
raspberry syrup add to 1 gal plain syrup % oz tincture of 
tartaric acid and % oz essence of raspberry. For sarsaparilla 
syrup, add to 1 gal plain syrup 10 drops oil of anise, 20 drops 
oil of wintergreen, and 20 drops oil of sarsaparilla. To make 
nectar add to 1 lb plain syrup 30 drops essence of nectar. 

To make rose syrup allow for 1 lb fresh rose petals 1 qt 
clear water and 4 lbs granulated sugar. Put water in poreelaiiv- 



202 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

lined kettle, bring to boiling point, add rose petals, cover, 
take from fire, and stand away over night. Next morning 
strain through a fine cloth, add the sugar, and boil until 
sugar is entirely dissolved and "syrupy." Fill into clean 
bottles, press in good, clean corks that have been soaking in 
boiling water, to which a pinch of baking soda was added, and 
dip the tops of bottles (cork and all) into melted wax or paraf- 
flne. Keep in a cool place. Fine rose flavor for cakes, ice 
creams, ices, icing, drinks, candies, etc. — [A. G., Mass. 

Imitation Maple Syrup 

Boil 1 doz clean corn cobs (red are best), from 1 to 2 hours, 
in enough water to leave nearly 1 pt liquid, when done, then 
strain, add 2 lbs brown sugar, and boil until as thick as 
desired. This syrup has a fine flavor, very much like maple 
eyrup. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Silver Drip Syrup 

To 3 cups sugar add 1 cup water and % teasp purifier, and 
boil 15 minutes, then skim or strain. Nice to serve with warm 
cakes. The purifier is made as follows: Mix and sift together 
three times 1 teasp each flour, sugar, and powdered alum. This 
mixture can be kept on hand and used as needed. — [Mrs. C. 
H. Y., Mo. 

Soda Syrup 

To 2 lbs sugar add 2 ozs tartaric acid and 1% qts boiling 
water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and let cool, then 
add 1 oz of any preferred flavoring, and the beaten whites of 
S eggs. Put 2 tablesp of this syrup in a glass half full cold 
water, and stir in scant % teasp soda. — [Mrs. E. T., Vt. 

Cherry Syrup 

Boil ripe cherries with a very little water, and when soft, 
strain through a jelly bag. For each qt juice allow 3 lbs sugar. 
Put the sugar on with freshly boiled water, allowing 1 pt 
water for every 3 lbs sugar. Stir until dissolved, then add 
the cherry juice, bring to a boil, skim, and boil rapidly for 
1 or 2 minutes. Bottle, cork and seal. This syrup is delicious 
with hot cakes, or for flavoring puddings, sauces, ice cream, 
etc. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Toast Water 

Cut slices of stale bread ^, inch thick, put in slow oven 
to crisp, and when a golden brown, break in pieces, add an 
equal amount boiling water, let stand 1 hour, then strain, 
and serve hot or cold with or without sugar. — [J. H. 



BEEF AND OYSTER TEA 203 



Rice Water 

Wash 2 tablesp rice first In cold water and then in hot water, 
add 1 at cold water, let simmer gently 1 hour, then strain, 
and add salt and sugar to taste. Serve as it is, or diluted with 
milk. — [J. H. 

Barley Water 

Wash 3 or 4 teasp pearl harley and put over the fire with 
a little cold water. Boil 4 or 5 minutes, then drain, rinse in 
cold water, add 1 qt fresh cold water, let come to the boiling 
point, and then simmer slowly until reduced to about 3 cups 
liquid. Add salt and sugar to taste and serve as it is, or 
diluted with milk. — [J. H. 

Oyster Tea 

Chop fine 2 doz oysters, add 1 pt cold water, boil 5 minutes, 
strain, season with salt and pepper, and serve with crisp oyster 
crackers. — [M. P., N. H. 

Beef Tea 

Cut 2 lbs top-round beefsteak in %-inch pieces, put into a 
porcelain-lined or agate saucepan, cover with, pounded ice 1 
inch thick, and let stand about 2 hours. Then put over the 
fire, let heat nearly to the boiling point, and strain. Another 
way is to put into an earthern jar the same amount of beef 
round, with a knuckle of veal, broken up. Cover the jar and 
place in a large saucepan of boiling water, and let boil slowly 
5 or 6 hours, after which the jar will be well filled with 
meat juice. Strain and cool. It will jelly. Serve cold in 
summer, and dissolved in a little hot water in winter. Remem- 
ber that this is extract of beef, and therefore a little of it 
goes a long way. — [A. G., Mass. 

Flaxseed Tea 

Wash 2 tablesp whole flaxseed, add 1 qt boiling water, let 
boil 1 or 2 hours, strain, and add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Very soothing and good for those suffering with a 
cold. — [J. H. 



Serve cold chocolate or cocoa topped off with whipped 
cream. — [E. M. C, Mich. 



Add a little rolled oats to lemonade, on days when it is 
"almost too hot to eat." — [Mrs. D. L. P., Cuba. 



204 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Freshly made buttermilk, nice and clean, chilled on ice, 
and sweetened to taste, is a very healthful beverage. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Beat 1 egg, put in a glass with 1 tablesp sugar, mix well 
and fill with hot, sweet cider, stirring constantly. — [F. L. 
R., Ct. 

Cook rhubarb in plenty of water, strain, sweeten to taste, 
and boil about 5 minutes. This is nice syrup to add to lemon- 
ade. — [E. B., Mass. 

Put 1 level teasp ground ginger in a pt pitcher, add a 
dash of grated nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon, sugar ta taste, 
and fill up with boiling water. Steep a few minutes, then 
strain. — [F. L. R., Ct. 

Moisten 1 oz finely ground tea with cold water, let stand 
20 minutes, then pour on 1 pt fresh boiling water, ana steep 
1 minufe, but no longer. — [Mrs. D. W. B., N. T. 



[PASTE ADDITIONAIi RECIPES HEBEl 




Jees, lee ©ream and Gonfections 

HAT is more delightfully cooling and refresh- 
ing than frozen fruit ices and ice cream? And 
not only are they most palatable, but ice cream 
is nourishing as well, and of great value in the 
sick room. Pure, homemade candies also pos- 
sess dietetic value, and when partaken of spar- 
ingly and only occasionally, can do no harm, except perhaps 
to those whose state of health requires total abstinence from 
all sweets. The following directions and recipes will doubt- 
less answer all the needs of the family of average 
means, in that particular branch of the art of cookery. 

How to Freeze Ices and Creams 

Small freezers, for family use, can now be had at such, 
reasonable prices, that almost nine out of every ten house- 
keepers can count a freezer among her necessary cooking uten- 
sils. On farms where milk, cream, eggs and fruit are plenti- 
ful, the chief item of expense, when making ice cream, is the 
ice — unless the farm can also boast of a well-filled ice-house — 
but even if not, 5o or 10c worth of ice will go a long way. 

Put the ice in a bag and crush fine by pounding with a 
wooden mallet or the broad side of an axe — there should be 
no pieces larger than a walnut — the finer, the better. Use 
three parts coarse rook salt to one part crushed ice, 
evenly distributed and pack closely and solidly around the can 
in the freezer. The cream will freeze more quickly if more 
salt is used, but will not be so fine grained. Remember that 
freezing increases the bulk of the cream mixture, and there- 
fore never fill the can more than three-quarters full. The 
ice and salt need come up no further than the contents of can. 

Cover the can closely, adjust the top, and make sure that 
the can fits in the socket, so that the crank may be turned 
readily. , Turn the crank slowly and steadily at first, after- 
wards ruore rapidly, until it becomes difficult to turn, which 
is the sign that freezing has been accomplished. More ice 
and salt may be added, from time to time, if necessary, but 
the water should not be drawn ofE before the freezing is 
done, unless it gets so high that it threatens to run over into 
the can. It is the salt water that does the freezing, and it is 
the salt that melts the ice, and the more salt, the quicker the 

205 



206 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

freezing, although, as before mentioned, quick freezing 
produces a coarse grained cream. 

After the mixture is well frozen, draw the water off, care- 
fully remove cover and dasher, and pack the cream down 
solidly, then return the cover, closing the opening in same 
securely with a cork, and repack the freezer, using four parts 
crushed ice to one part salt. Cover with a piece of carpet or 
quilt, and let stand at least two or three hours to "ripen," 
before serving, although it may stand even longer. 

Ijemon or Orange Ice 

For a lemon ice boil together 20 minutes 2 cups sugar with 
4 cups water, or until it syrups, then add % ^up strained 
lemon juice, let get cold, and then freeze. Proceed the same 
for orange ice, only use less lemon — about % cup lemon juice 
■ — and 2 cups orange juice, with the grated rind of 2 oranges. 

Strawberry, Raspberry and Currant Ices 

To 1 % cups sugar add 4 cups water and boil 2 minutes, or 
until it syrups, then add either 2 cups strawberry, raspberry 
or currant juice (a mixture of half raspberry and half currant 
is nice), and in the case of strawberry or raspberry alone, 
add to the former 1 tablesp and to the latter 2 tablesp lemon 
juice. Let the mixture get cold, and then freeze. To obtain 
the pure fruit juice, mash, heat a little, but add no water, and 
squeeze through a cheese cloth bag. Strain again if the liquid 
does not look clear enough. 

MUk Sherbet 

Mix together 1% cups sugar and the juice of 3 lemons (if 
small or not very juicy, use 4 lemons) and then add, slowly 
and gradually, stirring constantly, 4 cups milk. If this is 
carefully done, it will not curdle, but if it should happen 
to curdle, it will not spoil the sherbet, though it may not 
look so nice. Freeze. 

Peach Sherbet 

To 2 cups sugar add 1 qt water and about 10 peach kernels, 
and boil 20 minutes, then add 1 teasp clear granulated gela- 
tine, soaked in 2 tablesp cold water, and stir until dissolved. 
Let get cold, and then add 1% cups mashed peach pulp (fully 
ripe peaches mashed through a sieve), and the juice of 1 
lemon and 2 oranges. Freeze. 

Coffee Sherbet 

To % or % cup finely ground coffee add 1 beaten egg and 
the crushed shell, then stir in % cup cold water, and when 



GRAPE SHERBET AND ICE CREAM 20T 

well mixed, add 6 cups boiling water and let boil 2 or 3 min- 
utes, but no longer, then add 2 teasp clear granulated gela- 
tine soaked in 2 tablesp cold water, and stir till dissolved, then 
strain through cheese cloth wrung out of hot water. Add to 
the strained liquid 1% cups sugar, and when dissolved and 
cold, freeze. Serve in glass cups, each one topped off with a 
spoonful of whipped cream. 

Grape Sherbet 

To 1 pt sugar add 1 qt water and boil 20 minutes, then add 
1 teasp clear granulated gelatine soaked in 1 tablesp cold 
water, and when dissolved, remove from fire, add 1 pt clear 
grape juice, and the juice of 2 lemons. Cool and freeze. 

Pineapple Frappe 

To 1% cups sugar add 2 cups water and boll 15 minutes, 
then add juice of 3 lemons and a fresh pineapple, shredded 
(or canned pineapple, but in that case use less sugar in the 
syrup). Remove from fire and stir in 2 cups cold water, and 
when cold, freeze, using equal parts of ice and salt. Other 
juicy fruits or berries can be used the same way. 

Vanilla or Chocolate Ice Cream 

Mix well together 1 cup sugar, 1 tablesp flour and % teasp 
salt, then add 1 beaten egg, and very gradually 2 cups hot 
milk. Cook in a double boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly, 
and when cold add 1 qt cream (thin), and 2 tablesp vanilla 
extract. The mixture should be nice and smooth, like custard, 
but should it happen to curdle, it will not show after freez- 
ing, nor afCect the taste. Freeze. For chocolate ice cream 
use only 1 tablesp vanilla, and add 1 or l^^ squares of bitter 
chocolate, or an equal quantity of cocoa. Ice creams should 
taste very sweet before freezing. For variety, when making 
vanilla Ice cream, burn half the sugar (to make a caramel) 
and add it to the hot custard. Chopped nut meats added to 
vanilla ice cream is also nice. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Scald together 1% cups milk and % cup freshly made, 
strong, black coffee, then gradually add this to 1 % cups sugar 
mixed with 2 beaten eggs and a pinch of salt, stirring vigor- 
ously, and cook in a double boiler until thickened, then add, 
slowly and gradually, 1 qt cream, stirring constantly, and let 
stand on back of range about 20 minutes. Cool and freeze. 



208 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Unboiled Foundation Cream 

Into a bowl put the white of 1 egg, Vz tablesp cold water, 
and % teasp vanilla, and beat until well mixed, then add 
gradually 1 lb confectioner's sugar (or a little less), until stiff 
enough to handle or knead. This cream can be used in various 
ways. For creamed walnuts, break off small pieces, shape into 
small, flat cakes, and press half a walnut on either side of 
each cake. For chocolate cream drops, shape into small balls, 
stick on end of knitting needle or a toothpick, and dip in 
melted chocolate, to which no water has been added. For nut 
bars, work chopped nut meats into the cream, and cut in small 
bars. The cream can be flavored and colored to suit. 

Colorings for Candy 

Prepared cochineal is harmless and tasteless, used in small 
quantities, and produces all the pretty and varying shades from 
a light pink to a deep red. Buy 1 oz powdered cochineal at 
the drug store and boil it with 5 grains bi-carbonate of soda 
and % pt soft water until reduced one-half, then add 2 
drachms er.ch of powdered «,lum and cream of tartar, let boil 
10 minutes longer, and strain through double cheese cloth. 
Bottle and cork. From 5 to 10 drops is enough to color candy. 

A nice yellow color is obtained by using more or less of the 
grated rind of an orange, or the following preparation: Boil 
1 oz English hay-saffron in 1 pt water until reduced one-half, 
then strain, and bottle and cork. Be careful not to use too 
much of this coloring, or you may find the flavoring objec- 
tionable. 

Pretty amber or light brown colors can be obtained by using 
a few drops, more or less, of caramel, which is prepared as 
follows: Put % pt sugar in a granite-ware kettle over the 
fire, and stir constantly until it melts and begins to smoke and 
burn, then quickly add % pt water, and stir and boil until a 
thick syrup, the consistency of molasses. Bottle and cork. 
Will keep a year. 

Use spinach greens to obtain green shades. Boil down to a 
very small quantity, then strain and boil the juice again until 
It curdles, after which strain again and let the soft residue 
dry in the air until it forms a thick paste, then rub in an equal 
quantity of powdered sugar, and when smooth, put away in 
a covered glass jar. 

Peppermint Drops 

Stir until dissolved 1 % cups sugar and % cup boiling water, 
then boil 10 minutes, remove from fire, add 6 to 8 drops oil 
of peppermint, and beat until the right consistency to drop 
from tip of spoon on buttered paper. 




NO. I— PRETTY DECORATION FOR CHRISTMAS TABLE. 




NO. II — ^A PATRIOTIC TABLE FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY. 



MOLASSES AND CREAM CANDY 20« 



Gum Drops or Wafers 

Seals 1 oz gum tragacanth (bought at drug store) in 1 cup 
cold water about 24 hours, and then rub through a fine wire 
sieve. Knead in enough confectioner's sugar so the mass can 
be handled, and add flavoring and coloring as preferred. Roll 
thin on a smooth board dredged with confectioner's sugar, cut 
In small squares or fancy shapes, and roll in granulated sugar. 

Plain Molasses Candy 

Put 3 tablesp butter in a small granite-ware kettle, place 
over fire, and when melted, add 2 cups molasses and % cup 
sugar, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil steadily until, 
when a little is dropped in cold water, the candy will become 
brittle. Stir constantly, to prevent burning and boiling over. 
Just before removing from the fire, add 1 tablesp vinegar, 
and pour the mixture on a well-buttered pie plate. When cool 
enough to handle, pull until the candy is porous and light 
colored, using the hands, well buttered, but be careful to 
handle the candy lightly, between fingers and thumbs. Squeez- 
ing between the hands would spoil it Cut in small pieces with 
a sharp knife, and arrange on buttered plates to cool. 

Velvet Molasses Candy 

Put over the fire, in a granite-ware kettle, 1 cup molasses, 
3 cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water, and 3 tablesp vinegar. 
When it reaches the boiling point, add % teasp cream of 
tartar, and boil until, when a little is dropped in cold water, 
it will become brittle. Stir constantly, and when nearly done, 
add % cup melted butter and % teasp soda. Pour on a but- 
tered pie plate, and when cool enough to handle, pull, same as 
directed in recipe for plain molasses candy, working in, while 
pulling 1 teasp vanilla and % teasp lemon extract, or a few 
drops of peppermint or oil of wintergreen. 

Sngar Candy 

Put 2 tablesp butter in a granite-ware kettla, and when 
melted add 2 cups sugar and % cup vinegar. Stir until sugar 
Is dissolved, and boil until when a little of the mixture is drop- 
ped in cold water it will become brittle. Pour on a buttered 
pie plate, and pull, the same as molasses candy. 

Cream Candy 

Into an agate-ware kettle put 3 cups sugar, % cup boUins 
water, % tablesp vinegar, and % teasp cream of tartar. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then boil without stirring until 
It will brittle when a little is dropped In cold water. Pour on 
a buttered plate, and as soon as it can be handled, puU until 



210 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

■white and glossy, meanwhile working in any desired flavor — i 
lemon, orange or vanilla extract, or a few drops of oil of win- 
tergreen or sassafras, or peppermint. Cut in small pieces and 
lay on a buttered plate to cool. 

Old-Fashioned Butter Scotch 

Boil together until it will brittle, 1 cup sugar, % cup molas- 
ses, % cup butter, 2 tablesp boiling water, and 1 tablesp vine- 
gar, then pour on a buttered plate, and before it hardens, 
mark in squares with a knife. If liked, a little vanilla ex- 
tract or cinnamon may be added, after removing from fire. 

Plain Butter Taffy^ 

Boil until it brittles, 2 cups brown sugar, % cup molasses, 
2 tablesp each vinegar and water, and % teasp salt. When 
nearly done add % cup butter, and after removing from fire, 
2 teasp vanilla extract. Pour on a buttered plate, and before 
it hardens, mark in squares with a knife. 

Horehound Taffy 

Buy any desired quantity of pressed horehound at the drug 
store, cut off a piece about 1 inch square, and steep 1 minute 
in 2 cups boiling water, then strain through a double cheese 
cloth, add 3 cups sugar and % teasp cream of tartar, and boil 
until it will brittle, then pour on a buttered plate, and before it 
hardens, mark with a knife in small squares. 

Chocolate or Nat Caramels 

Put 2% tablesp butter in a kettle over the fire, and when 
melted add 2 cups molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, and % cup 
milk. Stir until sugar is dissolved, let come to the boiling 
point, then add 2 or 3 squares bitter chocolate, and stir until 
it is melted. Boil until, when a little is dropped in cold 
water, it can be shaped into a soft, firm ball, between the 
fingers, then remove from fire, add 1 teasp vanilla, pour on a 
buttered plate, and when cool, mark in inch squares with a 
sharp knife. To make nut caramels, add to the above 1 lb 
English walnuts, chopped fine, or ^ lb blanched almonds, 
chopped, or any other nut meats. 

Cocoanut Candy 

Put 2 teasp butter in a granite-ware saucepan, and when 
melted add 1 % cups sugar and 1 cup milk, and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Boil 12 minutes after it begins to boil, then 
remove from fire and add % teasp vanilla and % cup grated 
or shredded cocoanut, and beat until creamy, then pour on a 
buttered plate, cool, and mark in squares with a sharp knife. 
Any nut meats may be used instead of cocoanut. 




Table Equipment and Etiquette 

N this chapter no attempts are made to deal 
with knotty problems of formal dining 
etiquette, or to suggest elaborate functions 
which the average farm housewife, minus 
hired help, would be unable to carry out. 
There are books aplenty on such subjects, and anyone who 
can afford time and money to live or entertain in lavish 
and formal style can afford to buy such books, and need 
not turn to this humble little volume for the desired informa- 
tion. But the endeavor is, rather, to point out the "little 
things" pertaining to refinement that are so easily over- 
looked, unless we take time to think and train ourselves to 
an everyday observance of them, to the end that good 
manners may become a part of us, so to speak, and enable 
us to "hold our own" in any society, without awkwardness 
or embarrassment. In this, as in all other accomplish- 
ments, ease comes with constant practice. 

The Dining Boom 

It is a. mistake to clutter up any room in the house with 
an odd assortment of dust collecting things that serve neither 
for use nor ornament, and this applies with emphasis to the 
dining room, which should he plainly furnished with such 
necessary articles as one can afford, and be an altogether 
bright and cheerful looking room. Red is a favorite color 
for dining room paper, with yellow and lively greens as close 
seconds. Pictures always show off best against rather plain 
papers, and the pictures themselves had far better be few 
and good, than many and poor or inappropriate. All the 
appointments of a dining room should radiate brightness and 
cheerfulness. That everything should be immaculately clean 
goes without saying, and another most important point, too 
often neglected, is the ventilation. Fresh air, and plenty of it. 
Is an absolute necessity and will do much toward promoting 
digestion and good humor. Let the housewife not forget that 

211 



212 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

fresh air can be warmed more easily than stale air, and that 
fresh air costs nothing. A few growing plants add to the 
attractiveness of a dining room, as do clean, window panes 
and plain white curtains. Let the room in which the whola 
family assembles three times a day be as nice as you can 
plan and make and keep it. 

The Dining Boom Table 

Some one once remarked facetiously that the best decoration 
for a dining room table is a well-cooked dinner, and in this 
he was not so far wrong, though he might have gone further 
and said that the best dinner might be served in an unappe- 
tizing manner, and even a plain meal be made appetizing 
by the way it is served. It is a mistake to use nice table 
linen and dishes only for very special occasions, or when 
entertaining cpmpany. Such a system makes everycHie, and 
especially the children, rather awkward when the special 
occasions with their special table display do come aJtong. 
It would help wonderfully to induce everyone to use his best 
table manners always, if nice table equipment were an every- 
day affair — the influence of environment is not a theory, but 
a fact. 

The table should be spread first with a "silence cloth," made 
of two layers of white outing or Canton flannel, and then with 
a white table cloth. Even if the latter is not fine linen, as 
long as it is clean it will be all right, and careful table 
manners will make too frequent changes unnecessary. A 
little doily in the center, with a small fern or a vase of flow- 
ers, adds a bright touch which costs nothing. The table should 
be set with care, and no necessary article omitted, so as to 
obviate unpleasant excursions to pantry and kitchen during 
the progress of the meal. The little son or daughter can 
be trained to save the mother considerable work, in setting 
and clearing the table, and in serving the meal. Put a 
plate at each place, the forks at the left side, and the knives 
and spoons (including tea spoons) at the right side. The 
napkins may be placed either on the plate or on the left 
side, and the water glass should be placed a little to 
the right of the plate, at the head of the knives, while the 
little bread plates or butter patties are placed in a correspond- 
ing position at the left side. 

Ihe soup plates should be placed near at hand to the one 
who is to serve from the tureen, and each person be served 
by a certain member of the family whose duty or turn It Is 
to play waiter or waitress for that week, the same one also 




NO. Ill — WITH BLOSSOMS 4ND BUTTERFLIES. 




'^^x ..y^s^M^u^jy^r ^.'A-^mM 



^f./-H. . /^/. ■x^^ ^i 



NO. IV— CHRYSANTHEMUMS AND "JAP" LANTERNS 



TABLE EQUIPMENT AND ETIQUETTE 213 

quietly removing the empty plates. Always serve full plates 
and remove empty plates from the right, but in presenting 
dishes or platters for the individual to help himself, serve 
from the left. After the soup course the meat, vegetables and 
potatoes, which, already dished, had been left in the warming 
oven, may be placed on the table and be served individually 
by the appointed waiter, or passed around from hand to hand, 
the waiter removing the plates, dishes and platters after this 
course, and placing the dessert plates and dessert. All 
extra plates and cups and saucers, and everything necessary 
for serving the meal, should be in readiness on a little side 
table or side board, before beginning the meal, and the 
empty plates and dishes and platters removed noiselessly and 
carried out on a big tray, so as to save running about as much 
as iKJssible, which would otherwise create an undesirable air 
of confusion. 

All these directions may sound rather formidable, and seem 
rather too much for everyday use, when "hustle" is the 
watchword, but they are in reality most easily carried out, 
if ejferything is done with precision according to a fixed 
system, by trained and willing hands. It is only by con- 
stantly practising good manners that one can become thor- 
oughly conversant with them, and it Is both elevating and 
inspiring to do one's best, always, and to cultivate refinement 
in all we say and do. 

Table Manners 

It should be counted an unpardonable offense to appear at 
table any other way but clean. No matter how heavy or 
dirty the work one must do, water and soap, and a comb and 
clothes brush will help one to "spruce up" in a few minutes. 
The practice of cleanliness inspires respect and promotes self- 
inspect. It is decidedly worth while to cultivate both. When 
men have been working in the fields and their boots are 
plastered with earth or ill-smelling matter, let them remove 
the boots and slip into a handy pair of slippers. The change 
is restful to the feet and takes but a few minutes to accom- 
plish. In like manner children should be taught the gospel 
of cleanliness. 

Let the conversation at table be bright and cheery, and 
on no account let troublesome or unpleasant subjects be 
broached, nor permit any personal grievances to be aired. 
The state of mind has considerable to do with the digestion. 
Which in turn affects nutrition. To adapt a scriptural passage:. 



214 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK _ 

"Better a crust with a lia"ppy spirit, than a full meal with 
contention." 

Teach the children to be quiet in voice and manners, not 
to make a "sucking" noise when drinking soup, to take the 
soup from the side of the spoon, not to tip their plates, nor 
spread the contents over the edge of the plates, to handle 
forks and knives properly and never to put the latter In 
their mouths, or use it to convey food to their mouths, not 
to "play" with the dishes or food, not to drink with the 
mouth full of food, to thoroughly chew and swallow each 
mouthful, and to make as little noise as possible all through 
the process of eating their meals. 

It goes without saying that parents want to teach by 
example as well as precept, and though it may be some 
trouble and require much patience to teach children how to 
conduct themselves properly, it is something that ought to 
be done, and had much better be done sooner than later. It 
is hard to teach an old dog new tricks. There is no patent 
on refinement, and all who will may cultivate it, to their own 
satisfaction and to the delight of all with whom they may 
come in contact. The term "country boor" is a reproach 
which none should be willing to stand for in this age of 
progress for all. 

Special Table Decorations 

(see ILLUSTBA.TIONS ) 

No. I — ^A very simple and easily managed decoration for 
the Christmas supper table is shown in the illustration on 
another page. The cloth is white and the holly ribbons, 
green on a red back-ground, can be of silk ribbon or cotton, 
with the real leaves appliqued, or of crepe paper. Two long 
strips should be crossed at the center of the table, allowing 
the four ends to come to the edge of the tablecloth. In the 
center place a tiny Christmas tree decorated with small red 
candles and bright bits of tinsel, but do not hang anything 
heavy on the tree, nor dress it too elaborately. The tree 
should be firmly fixed in a wooden brace or stand, painted 
green, or concealed with green branches. Put red candles 
in the candlesticks and shade them with any appropriate 
shade you can buy or can make, but be sure they are placed 
on straight, over a wire frame, the upper edges protected 
with a strip of asbestos. The shades can very easily be 
made of crepe paper. 



SPECIAL TABLE DECORATIONS 215 

No. II — For a, Fourth of July luncheon or supper, the 
decoration suggested In the illustration would be most 
appropriate. The ribbon, as in the case of the Christmas 
table, can be of silk, cotton or crepe paper, and the centerpiece 
is simply composed of a tall vase placed in a fern dish, and 
both decorated with terns and flags. The latter can be of 
silk, cotton or paper, and two of them should be crossed at 
the head of each plate. The napkins might also be of crepe 
paper, with flag designs. 

No. Ill — For any special occasions, such as a birthday cele- 
bration or wedding anniversary, occurring during the season 
when blossoms are plentiful, the decoration suggested in the 
illustration would be most dainty. Use blossoms in profusion, 
let the ribbon streamers be pink, and the butterflies made of 
gaily colored crepe or tissue paper. The whole decorative 
scheme should be light and airy, suggestive of, and in harmony 
with the sweet spring season. 

No. IV — In fall, when dahlias and chrysanthemums are 
plentiful, a very handsome centerpiece for the table can be 
built up with a tall vase filled with flowers of gorgeous color- 
ing, and pliable green stems or stripped branches to hold 
small, gaily-colored Japanese lanterns. Between each plate 
place a beautiful chrysanthemum on four pressed autumn 
leaves of maple or oak, as suggested in the illustration. 

No. V — When summer is at its hight, it is an easy matter 
to fix up attractive and appropriate table decorations, simple 
or elaborate, as the occasion may warrant. The illustration 
shows a pretty, low and broad glass bowl, filled with gay 
flowers and foliage, and placed on a mirror, the edge of 
which is hidden under a close border of small flowers — any 
kind that does not wither easily. 

No. VI — Yellow pumpkins, scraped clean inside, and a candle 
placed in the top one, the face openings covered inside with 
red tissue paper, form the chief table decoration for a 
Hallpw-e'en party. Arrange three in a group, and fill these 
with nuts and candy, replacing the caps, and on the top of 
these carefully place the "face" pumpkin with the candle 
Inside. Group three ears of red corn and three red apples 
between each pumpkin, dispose red candles in a circle around 
these, and place a large green pumpkin leaf under each plate. 



216 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK ^^^^ 

Banning and Preserving Hints 

Envelop glass jars in towels wrung out of hot water, pour 
the fruit in slowly, and the jars will not break. Screw on cov- 
ers as tight as possible, being sure that the rubber shows all 
around the cover. Never turn the covers on the cans after 
they have cooled, for it loosens instead of tightening them. It 
also loosens them to lift the cans by the tops, after they are 
sealed. — [N. L., Tenn. 

When I can pears, I first wash, peel and core the fruit and 
then put the cores and parings into a preserving kettle and 
pour in enough water to almost cover. Boil until the juice is 
all extracted, then strain through a jelly bag, add 1 cup sugar 
for each qt fruit, let boil up and then drop in the pears and 
boil them till tender. When done, skim out the pears, drop 
them into hot jars, boil the syrup a little longer, and then 
pour it over the fruit in the jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs* 
K. W.. Me. 

In canning tomatoes last fall I ran short of jars, so, instead 
of putting meat and juice in jar, I drained oft all the juice pos- 
sible, which I then put through strainer to rid of seeds. The 
meaty portions were canned, the clear juice was put scalding 
hot into clean, hot bottles, clean corks inserted, and a solid 
coating of fruit sealing wax given to cork and top of bottle. 
The bottle was inverted and plunged into hot wax, as the easi- 
est way. Each bottle when opened, makes soup for four, with 
addition of milk and thickening. — [Mrs. R. J. F. 

Berries canned cold with sugar, without cooking, may 
deceive you into thinking that they have spoiled for they will 
work some and make the outside of the jar sticky with juice 
and mould, but this will not afCect the contents of the jar. 
Before using, clean the outside of the jar thoroughly and pour 
the contents in a dish and let stand several hours to throw off 
the acid gases. Berries canned this way are nice served with 
cream. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Many housekeepers make little ceremony canning berries of 
any kind. The main thing is to use only good, ripe berries. 
Pick as they ripen, put into jars and pour over them boiling 
hot syrup made of sugar and water. Have the glass overflow- 
ing full, seal while hot, and then set the jars In a pall or boiler 
of boiling water which more than covers the jars. Cover the 
pail closely and throw a cloth or quilt over it, and let stand 
until cold. Be sure that the tops are screwed on the jars as 
tight as possible. — [Miss F. L. R., Ct. 




eannin^ and Preserving 

URING the spring, summer and early fall 
months,' the good housekeeper on the farm 
finds her hands full, for in each of those 
seasons Mother Nature provides something 
in the line of fruit or vegetable which needs 
to be canned or preserved for use during the 
bleak and barren months of winter, begin- 
ning with the earliest berries and garden truck and winding 
up with the late pears, peaches, plums, etc., in the fall 
months. To do one's own canning and preserving means 
much warm work during the warm seasons, but it also 
means many dollars saved and a wholesome and bounteous 
table supply for the greater part of the year. Therefore, 
every good housekeeper is interested in canning and pre- 
serving recipes, and it is hoped that among the following 
she will find many that will please her and perhaps point 
the way to new methods or combinations. 

Methods of Canning 

There are two canning methods most generally vsed, the 
first being to boil the fruit in a syrup and then filling into 
the jars and sealing while hot. The second method is a little 
more troublesome, but thought by many cooks to be the 
best. The glass cans are filled with the fruit and sugar or 
juice, raw or partly cooked, the covers adjusted loosely, and 
the cans then set in a boiler of water and boiled for a pre- 
scribed time. Hay or pieces of wood are first placed in the 
bottom of the boiler, and hay or cloths packed between the 
jars, so they will not crack, and the water is allowed to come 
almost but not quite up to the tops of the jars. The boiler 
Is closely covered during the boiling process, to retain the 
steam. When they have boiled or steamed long enough the 
jars are removed from the boiler, each one filled full with 
juice or syrup, the rubbers adjusted, and the covers screwed 
down as tight as possible. 

a? 



218 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Abont the Jars for Canning 

Of course, the jars must be perfectly clean, the covers 
ditto, and fit exactly, and the rubbers new and of good quality. 
Sometimes, though very seldom, two old rubbers that seem 
good can be used in place of one new one, but it is always 
more or less of a risk to try this. Jars, covers and rubbers 
about which there is the least bit of doubt had better be 
kept for very sweet or spiced preserves, catsups or hot rel- 
ishes, that do not spoil easily. The wise housekeeper, as 
soon as she empties a glass jar of its contents, immediately 
washes and dries the jar, cover and rubber band, and puts 
the jar away in a dust-proof place with the rubber band and 
a small lump of charcoal inside and the cover screwed on 
loosely. This saves time and trouble for the next canning 
season, when the task of fitting cans and covers is especially 
wearysome. However, if this was not done, it will be nec- 
essary to try all the cans and covers. This is best done the 
evening before they are wanted. Wash and rinse the jars 
and covers thoroughly, using some baking soda with hot 
water, until you are sure each jar is sweet and clean. Then 
put some clean water in each jar, put on the rubbers and 
the covers that seem to fit best, screw tight, and let the jars 
stand on their heads all night. The leaky ones can then be 
easily taken out the next morning, and perhaps tried with 
other covers, or set aside for other use. The foregoing direc- 
tions apply chiefly to the old-fashioned glass cans with 
zinc porcelain-lined covers — ^when the new glass covered 
snap or lightning jars are used, there need be no matching of 
covers and jars. 

Heating and Filling Jars 

If hot fruit and syrup are poured into cold glass jars, they 
will immediately crack. Warm jars by placing them in hot 
water on the back of the stove, and when ready to fill stand 
the jars on a folded towel wrung out of hot water. A silver 
fork or spoon placed in the jar while it is being filled is also 
said to be effective in preventing cracking from heat. The 
jars must be overflowing full when the covers are put on, 
and great care should be taken that no air bubbles remain 
in the jar. To break these up, gently run a silver knifed 
through the contents, just before the final filling up. If not 
quite enough syrup is on hand to fill the jars full to over- 
flowing, a little boiling water may be poured in each. Seal 
while hot, screwing down the lids as tight as possible. Before 
they are quite cold, try if they can be screwed any tighter. 
If properly fitting covers and good, new rubbers were used, 
the jars will be sealed air tight, but if there is any doubfr 



CANNED CHERRIES AND PRESERVES 219 



about this, let them stand on their heads over night. Those 
that show any signs of leaking will have to be opened and 
the contents heated over again, and put in jars with better 
fitting covers. Store all canned goods in a cool, dark and 
dry place. A paper bag slipped over each jar will help ex- 
clude light. — [A. G., Mass. 

About Salicylic Acid 

A number of recipes for canning and preserving, which 
call for salicylic acid to help the preserving process, were 
received by the editor of this book, but have been omitted 
because it was deemed unwise to recommend them, inasmuch 
as salicylic acid, if used at all, must be used with the greatest 
caution. Salicylic acid is a drug which should only be pre- 
scribed by a competent physician fully aware of the condi- 
tion of his patient. It is dangerous to partake of it fre- 
quently, however small the quantity may be. What is meat 
for one man may be poison for another. Chemical preserva- 
tives should never be used in putting up articles of food. 
Our national pure food laws have recently made wise pro- 
visions in this respect. — [Editor. 

Canned Cherries 

Pick cherries over carefully, discarding all wormy and un- 
ripe ones. Allow 1 cup sugar for each qt jar of fruit. Put 
the cherries and sugar in layers in the jars until they are 
nearly full, then arrange the jars in a boiler, first placing a 
layer of straw in the bottom of the boiler and also pack some 
straw between the jars. Cover the jars but do not put on 
the rubbers. Then pour enough water into the boiler to 
come nearly to the top of the jars but not enough so that 
any of it can run into the jars. Cover the boiler and let 
boil until the sugar in the jars is melted and forms a clear 
syrup. Meanwhile have more syrup in a preserving kettle, 
and when the fruit is ready, take out the Jars, one at a 
time, fill up full with the boiling hot syrup, put on the rub- 
bers, and seal at once. Be sure to have the glass overflowing 
full with syrup. — [M. C, Va. 

To Can -whole Cherries Cold 

Use freshly picked, carefully selected cherries, not over- 
ripe and with the stems on, wash and drain them carefully 
and fill into cans, but do not pit them or remove the stems, 
and be careful not to break the stems. Fill the cans with 
fresh cold water, shake well to be sure there are no air 
bubbles in the can, then fill to overflowing with fresh water 



220 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and seal at once. When opened they will be just like fresh 
picked cherries, and you can serve them Christmas time and set 
your guests to wondering where you got fresh cherries. They 
must be sealed air tight, and stored in a dark, dry and cool 
place. — [Mrs. L. W., O. 

Cherry Preserves 

Wash the cherries thoroughly at least 3 times, then drain 
well and weigh. To each lb cherries allow 1 lb sugar and boil 
until most of the cherries have broken to pieces. If liked, 
add 1 sliced lemon (seeds discarded), to every 4 qts of the 
preserves and boil together with the preserves until done. 
Put up in stone jars. — [Miss K. B., Minn. 

Sour Cherry Preserve 

For each lb carefully selected cherries, allow 1 lb sugar. 
Put the sugar in a perserving kettle and add 1 small cup cold 
water to every lb sugar and boil until the syrup is transparent, 
taking care not to let it scorch or burn, and skimming off 
all skum that rises to the surface. After this put ia the 
cherries and let them boil for 15 minutes, then skim out the 
cherries and put them into glass jars. Let the syrup boil 
down some and add to it any of the juice that has drained 
off the cherries in the jar. When the syrup is boiled suffi- 
ciently, fill up the jars with it and seal at once. Store in a cool 
dark, and dry place. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Canned Baked Apples 

Fill a large pudding dish with sour apples, pared, cored 
and quartered. Sprinkle with % cup sugar for each qt apples 
and add a sprinkle of cinnamon if liked. Pour in about 1 
cup water, cover closely and bake several hours in a moderate 
oven, or until the apples turn red. Fill at once into hot fruit 
cans and seal air tight. — [I. A. S., Me. 

Candied Apples 

Preserve the apples in the usual way, using 1 lb sugar to 1 
lb fruit. When the apples are done and just before removing 
the kettle from the fire, dissolve 1 tablesp cream of tartar 
l(more or less according to the quantity of apples used) in a 
little water and add this to the preserved fruit, stirring 
gently. Pour the fruit into jars, let stand about 10 days or 2 
weeks, then drain the fruit from the syrup and spread on 
platters and let dry in a cool room, first dipping each piece 
of fruit in granulated sugar. This is a fine substitute for 
citron In cakes or puddings. — [L. E. M., Mich. 



APPLES AND PINEAPPLES 221 

PicliJed Apples 

Boil together 1 qt vinegar and 6 cups brown sugar. When 
it has come to a boil, skim and add 1 teasp each cloves, cin- 
namon and allspice, then fill the boiling spiced syrup full 
with sweet apples that have been washed and wiped dry, cut 
in halves and the cores removed. Do not pare the apples. 
Let boil until soft but not soft enough to break. Can and 
seal air tight. Give the cans a little shake, once in a while, 
when filling them, so the contents will settle down and the 
air bubbles break. Be sure to fill the cans overflowing full. 
— [M. P.. N. H. 

Crabapple Preserves 

Allow 1 lb sugar for every lb of carefully selected ripe, 
red crabapples. Wipe the apples clean but leave the stems 
on and scald them in boiling water. Make a syrup of the 
sugar, adding a very little water, and when the sugar is boiled 
clear, put in the fruit and boil until soft. Then skim out the 
apples carefully and put them into jars. Boil the juice down 
until it is quite thick. Drain out the liquid collected in the 
jars and add it to the boiling juice. When sufficiently thick, 
pour it over the fruit, having each jar as full as possible. Seal 
while hot. These may be put up in small stone jars, but in 
that case, do not cover the jars until the contents are 
thoroughly cold. — [M. P., N. H. 

Spiced Crabapples 

Thoroughly heat 1 pt vinegar and 4 lbs sugar, then add 6 
lbs crabapples, chopped fine, 2 lbs raisins, seeded and chopped, 
the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, 1 teasp cloves and 2 
teasp cinnamon. Cook slowly until the apples are done. 
Can and seal. — [Mrs. F. D. D., N. Y. 

Canned Pineapple 

Pick out the eyes and peel, and slice % inch thick and core 
sound, ripe pineapples. Cut into small dice or chips and put 
over the fire in a preserving kettle, adding 1 cup sugar Tor 
each qt fruit, and water enough to cover. Cook until tender, 
then turn into jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs. C. W. K., 111. 

Canned Currants 

For 3 lbs carefully selected stemmed, washed and drained 
currants, allow 1 lb sugar. Put the fruit and the sugar 
together to boil about 10 minutes or until the juice is pretty 
well extracted, then carefully skim out the fruit and let the 
juice boll about 20 minutes, after which return the fruit 
to the juice again and let cook long enough to heat through. 
Then can and seal air tight. — [Mrs. B. B., Mo. 



222 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

To Can Cnrrants Cold 

Select good, ripe currants, remove stems, wash and drain, 
and allow equal weight of sugar. Wash the currants and be 
sure that every single one is crushed. Mix thoroughly with 
the sugar and let stand over night. Next morning stir well, 
and when all the sugar is dissolved, put it in air-tight fruit 
cans and set away in a cool, dark and dry place. Be sure 
to have the cans full and to pack them closely, so that no air 
bubbles will remain in them. — [Mrs. W. L. J., Vt. 

Spiced Currants 

Put 1 tablesp ground cinnamon and 1 teasp whole cloves 
in a little cheese cloth bag and let it simmer slowly about 15 
minutes with 1 cup vinegar and 4 lbs sugar. Then add 4 lbs 
currants and boil slowly till rich and thick. Remove spice 
bag and can and seal while hot. Stoned cherries may be 
prepared the same way. Boil 1 cup cherry stones in the bag 
with the spices. — £Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 

Qnince Preserves 

Pare and quarter the fruit, removing the core and hard 
parts, then weigh and allow % lb sugar to 1 lb quinces. 
Cover the fruit with water and boll slowly until tender. Then 
skim out the fruit, strain the juice if necessary, put the sugar 
in the juice, and cook and skim until it is a thick syrup, then 
return the quinces to the syrup and cook until they are of 
the desired shade and thickness. Put up hot in air-tight jars. 
The flavor will be improved if a tart apple or a little apple 
juice is added. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Canned Grapes 

Pick carefully selected ripe grapes from stems and put) 
in 1-qt jars. Allow 1 cup sugar and 3 cups water for each! 
qt can and boil until it syrups. Place the grape-filled cans on 
the stove shelf, where they may become warm, have a tea- 
kettle filled with freshly boiled water, and when the cans 
are thoroughly warmed so they will not break, fill 1 can at 
a time as rapidly as possible with clear boiling water, pour oft 
immediately, and then fill with the boiling syrup and seal at 
once. — [Mrs. M. B. W., N. Y. 

Canned Grapes (Xo Sugar) 

Use only good, ripe grapes, separate pulp and skins, throw- 
ing them in separate vessels. Put the pulp over the fire with a 



GRAPE AND PEAR PRESERVES 223 



very little water and boil slowly until the seeds separate. 
Then rub through a sieve to remove the seeds, return the pulp 
to the preserving kettle containing the skins, and cook well 
together, stirring often to prevent scorching. When the skins 
are tender, fill into jars and seal air tight. — [Miss E. K., Ind. 

Grape Preserves I 

Pick over ripe grapes, carefully discarding faulty ones, 
press out pulp, preserving skins or hulls. For every lb hulls 
allow 1 lb brown sugar. Put in preserving kettle and let 
stand over night, then put over the fire and cook until thick. 
This makes a very rich and "winey" preserve. It needs no 
flavoring. The pulp can be boiled with a very little water 
and then rubbed through a colander to remove the seeds 
and then boiled with an equal quantity of sugar for jam.^-^ 
[Mrs. G. "W. C, Tex. 

Grape Preserves n 

Use only good, ripe grapes, wash and drain, separate the 
pulps and skins and throw them in separate 'vessels. Cook 
the skins with barely enough water to cover and cook the 
pulp in another kettle in its own juice until the seeds separate, 
then rub through a colander and add the strained pulp to the 
ekins, which should have boiled nearly dry by that time. 
Measure and allow an equal measure of sugar. After the 
pulp has been added to the skins, let this mixture cook 2ft 
minutes, stirring often, then add % of the sugar and boil S, 
minutes, add another ^ of the sugar, again boil 5 minutes, 
and proceed this way until the sugar is all used and the skins 
are soft. — tL. A. S., Me. 

Spiced Grapes 

Separate the pulps and skins of 4 qts grapes, putting them 
in separate vessels. Cook the pulp until the seeds separate, 
then strain through a colander and add to the skins with 
3% lbs brown sugar, Vz pt vinegar, 1 tablesp cinnamon, and 
% tablesp each cloves and allspice. Boil slowly about 2%{ 
hours, or until the skins are tender. — [F. M. P., Mass. 

Canned Pears 

Put 1 teasp each of cinnamon and nutmeg In a little cheese 
doth bag and drop it into a syrup made of 1 % lbs sugar and 
1% cups water. Slice in 2 lemons, pits removed, and let boil 
until it thickens like syrup. Then add 3 lbs ripe pears, 
weighed after peeling, and cook until the pears are done 
and of a delicate pink color. Remove the spice bag before 
pouring into jars. Seal while hot. — [C. B. H.. Mich. ' 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Chipped or Spiced Pears 

Cut 8 lbs pears into small dice or cMps, cover with 6 lbs 
sugar, and let stand over nigbt. Next morning add the grated 
rind and juice of 3 lemona and 2 ozs white ginger root. Sim- 
mer slowly about 3 hours and can while hot. — [Mrs. L. G., Cal. 

Canned Pltuns 

Wash 2 lbs plums, red, blue, yellow or green Gage. Prick 
them with a silver fork or a steel Imitting needle (to keep 
the skins from breaking while boiling) and then put the 
plums whole into a thick, boiling syrup made by boiling 
together 1 lb sugar and 1 pt water. Boil the plums in this 
mixture about 8 or 10 minutes, or until tender. Seal while 
hot. Cherries may be canned in the same manner. — [K. A. D., 
N. D. 

Preserved Plums 

Make a syrup of 1 lb sugar and % cup water and when boU' 
ing briskly, drop in 1 lb plums that have been washed and 
drained, cut in halves and the pits removed. Boil gently until 
the plums are done. Seal while hot in glass jars. — [Mrs. B. E. 
T., Va. 

Spiced Plnms 

Wash and prick % gal plums, cover with water and boil 5 
minutes, then pour off the water and add to the plums 3 Iba 
sugar, 1 pt vinegar and 1 teasp each ground cloves, allspice 
and cinnamon. Boil about 30 minutes, stirring frequeHtly. 
Can and seal while hot. — [M. B., 111. 

Canned Whole Peaches 

Select firm, medium sized iteaches, free from decay, a trifle 
under-ripe is better than over-ripe, pare, but do not remove 
the stones. Throw the fruit into cold water as fast as pared 
to keep It from turning dark, but do not let it remain long in 
the water, or the flavor will be lost. Make a syrup of 1 pt 
sugar and 1 qt water for every 4 lbs peaches. Place the fruit, 
after draining off. In a shallow, wide preserving kettle, and 
pour the hot syrup over it and cook gently until the fruit is 
easily pierced by a straw. Transfer the fruit carefully to glass 
jars, fill almost to the top with hot syrup, then run a silver 
knife around inside the jar to let out the air bubbles. Fill 
quickly overflowing full with the hot syrup and screw down 
the cover as tight as possible. If some of the juice overflows 



CANNED PEACHES AND CITRON PRESERVES 225 



on the rubber during tbe sealing process, it will do no injury, 
but will rather aid in the sealing. Peaches canned whole in 
this way are delicious — much better than when the stones are 
removed, as they impart a fine flavor. — [L. O. C, Ala. 

To Can Peaches Without Boiling 

Peel good, not over-ripe peaches, cut in halves and fill into 
jars which have been placed in boiling water. Then cover imme- 
diately with a hot syrup made of 1 pt sugar and 1% pts 
water. Have the cans overflowing full and be sure there are 
no air bubbles in them. Then seal at once while hot and 
allow the cans to stand submerged in hot water until they have 
all cooled. This method far surpasses the old-fashioned 
method of canning, and the fruit will retain its fresh flavor.-^-i 
[A. McL., 111. This method is also vouched for by Mrs. E. F. 
G., N. Y. 

Peach Preserves 

Pare peaches and mix with sugar and let stand over night.' 
Allow 4 lbs sugar to 5 lbs fruit. Next morning, put over the 
fire and boil 20 minutes, then skim out the fruit with a per- 
forated spoon and spread on a flat dish to cool and harden. 
Let the syrup boil until it almost begins to candy, then return 
the fruit to the syrup and boil very slowly 10 minutes. Seal 
in glass jars while hot. If the syrup has not cooked long 
enough, the preserves are likely to ferment, and the riper the 
fruit, the longer it will take to boil the water out of the syrup. 
— [Mrs. A. A. W., N. C. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Prepare a syrup of 4 lbs brown sugar, 1 qt best cider vine- 
gar and 2 ozs stick cinnamon. Boil 20 minutes. Prepare 
peaches by putting them a few minutes in boiling water and 
^ slipping off the skins. Put enough of these peeled peaches in 
the syrup to cover the bottom of the kettle, and cook until 
tender. Fill glass j'ars with the peaches, pour the boiling syrup 
over them and seal. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Preserved Citron Melons 

Peel the melons, remove the seeds and cut into small slices 
about V2 inch thick. For every 6 lbs melon allow 3 lbs sugar, 
the juice and yellow rind of 4 lemons and a small piece of 
green ginger root. Boil the melons in a little water about 
% hour, or until they look clear and can be pierced with a 
straw. Then drain, cover with cold water and let stand over 



226 FARM AND H OME COOK BOOK 

night. Next morning tie the ginger root in a cheese cloth bag 
and boil it in 3 pts water until the water is highly flavored 
with the ginger. Then remove the ginger, add the sugar, and 
when the sugar is melted, add the thin yellow peel of the lem- 
ons and boil and skim until no more skum rises. Remove the 
lemon peel and add the lemon juice and the sliced citron, thor- 
oughly drained from the cold water, and boil all together 
until the citron is quite transparent and soft, but not soft 
enough to break. Can while hot in air-tight jars. — [Miss J. 
R. W., Kan. 

Watermelon Preserves 

Pare the green rind from the melon, discard the soft pulp 
and seeds, using only the solid parts of the rind. Cut into 
small pieces, weigh and allow 7 lbs sugar for IQ lbs melon, 2 
£liced lemons, seeds discarded and a little piece of ginger root 
(the ginger may be omitted if the flavor is not liked). Boll 
■all together until the melon is clear and the juice is thick.— ^ 
[Mrs. B. P. G., 111. 

Cantaloupe Preserves 

Half ripe cantaloupe or muskmelons are best for preserves. 
Remove peel and seeds, cut in small pieces and for every 3 
lbs melon, allow 2 lbs sugar. Put melons and sugar in pre- 
serving kettle and let stand a few hours to draw the juice, 
then boil until the syrup is thick and the fruit tender. Can 
while hot in air-tight jars. Any flavoring that is liked may be 
kidded while boiling. — [Mrs. S. B., Tex. 

Preserved BIderberrieB 

To 7 lbs elderberries add boiling water to cover. Let stand 
about 15 minutes and then drain. Chop fine 3 lemons, remov- 
ing seeds, then add them to the drained elderberries with %' 
pt vinegar and 5 lbs sugar. Let boil about 15 minutes, then 
skim out the berries and boil the juice down thick, after which 
add the berries again and boil 13 minutes longer. Can be 
put up in stone jars or discarded jars for canning, that are not 
air tight. — [Miss L, M. B., N. Y. 

Canned Hnckleberries 

Put 6 qts huckleberries and 2 lbs sugar In a preserving ket- 
tle over the fire and let simmer gently a few minutes until the 
sugar is melted, then allow them to come to a boil and boll 4 
or 5 minutes. Can at once in air-tight jars. — [Mrs. C. vonW., 
N. J. 



CANNED BLUEBERRIES AND GOOSEBERRIES 227 



Canned Blueberries 

Pick over carefully and wash and drain ripe blueberries, 
and stew tbem in their own juice, with a very little water 
added at first to keep the lower ones from sticking to the ket- 
tle. When all are well cooked through turn them at once into 
warm jars and seal air tight. They will keep without sugar 
and are nice for pies. — [L. A. S., Me. 

Canned Gooseberries— Green or Wild 

Remove stems and flower ends and wash carefully in warm' 
water and drain thoroughly. To 1 qt gooseberries add 1 cup 
water and 2 cups sugar. Cook slowly 1 hour and then turn 
Into fruit cans and seal while hot. This will keep indefinitely, 
if sealed air tight and stored in a dark, cool place. — [Mrs. L. 
A. G., Me. 

To Can Gooseberries Without Sugar 

Remove stem and blossom ends from carefully selected ripe 
gooseberries and put in a preserving kettle with just enough 
water to come up through them, but not quite cover them. Let 
boil just long enough for the gooseberries to turn from the 
original color to a clear yellow, and then pour Into jars and 
seal Immediately. Canned in this way they re^tain their 
natural, fresh flavor. — [Mrs. B. T. W., Mo. 

Rhubarb and Gooseberry Preserves 

Boil together equal parts of rhubarb and gooseberries, and 
when soft, strain through a sieve, then return to the fire and 
boil until it looks clear and begins to thicken. Then add 
sugar of equal weight with the fruit, measured before boiling, 
and boil about 15 minutes longer. Pour into jelly glasses or 
jars, and when perfectly cold, cover with melted paraffine or 
paper. This need not be sealed air tight. — [Mrs. F. E. A., 
Wash. 

Spiced Blackberries 

To 5 qts blackberries add 1 qt vinegar, 3 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp 
cloves and ^ tablesp each allspice and cinnamon. Put the 
spices in a cheese cloth bag and boil them with the berries 
until they are of the consistency of preserves. Remove the 
spice bag and can, not necessarily air tight. — [Mrs. S. Q., 
Tenn. 



228 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Canned Raspberries 

Fill fruit jars with carefully selected ripe, red raspberries, 
and fill full to overflowing with a thick hot syrup made of 
sugar and water. Seal the jars tight and submerge them in a 
tank or boiler of boiling hot water, and allow them to remain 
there until they are cold. Cover the boiler and throw a carpet 
or quilt over it to retain the heat. Be sure the cans are sealed 
air tight. — IMrs. R. K., Pa. 

Raspberry Preserves 

Make a thick syrup by boiling together 2 cups sugar and %, 
cup water, and when clear add 2 cups carefully selected ripe 
red raspberries, and boil 5 minutes longer. Can air tight. 
This make 1 pt. — [Mrs. R. K., Pa. 

To Can Raspberries Without Cooking 

Wash, drain and mash ripe, red raspberries. Be sure that 
each berry is thoroughly mashed. Add an equal measure of 
sugar and stir, on and off, for 3 or 4 hours, or until all the 
sugar is melted and the acid gases have evaporated. Then fill 
into jars, pack tight and overflowing full, and seal air tight. 
When opened this will taste like the fresh berries, and is nice 
to use for shortcakes. — [Mrs. R. K., Pa. 

Canned Strawberries 

Allow 2 qts strawberries for a 1-qt jar. Select only the fin- 
est berries, fully ripe and of a deep, dark color. Hull, wash 
and drain 2 qts berries. Put about 2 or 3 tablesp berries on 
a plate and with a fork crush each berry and mix together 
thoroughly. Put these crushed berries in a preserving kettle 
with 1 cup of the best granulated sugar and put over the fire 
and let it heat up. When the sugar is dissolved put in what 
remains of the 2 qts of berries, and as soon as they have 
boiled and heated through thoroughly, carefully skim them 
out, put them in a glass jar, and If the remaining syrup seems 
too thin, or there is more than needed for filling the jar, let 
it boil down some more and then pour it boiling hot over the 
berries in the jar. Never attempt to do more than 2 qts at a 
time, in the manner described above. Any remaining juice 
should be boiled down to a jelly with the addition of a little 
more sugar, or it may be bottled and sealed, to use as a fla- 
voring for sauces, cakes, ice cream or sherbet. Be sure to use 
only the best berries, fully ripe and of a dark red color, and 
be sure to use only the best granulated sugar. Can and seal 
while hot and use the same precautions as in canning all other 
fruits. Set away in a cool, dark and dry place. — [Mrs. R. B. 
y., Okla. 



CANNED AND PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 229 



Canned Strawberries Without Cooking 

Fill a qt can about % full of selected ripe strawberries, 
whicb have been, hulled, washed and thoroughly drained, and 
then pour over them a syrup made by boiling together 5 min- 
utes 1 % cups sugar and 1 cup water. Pour the syrup over the 
fruit boiling hot, and seal at once. Screw down the covers as 
tight as possible and then set the jars in a pail or boiler and 
fill up with boiling water,, entirely covering the cans. Cover 
the boiler and throw a thick cloth or carpet over it, and leave 
it undisturbed until the water is cold. Then take out the jars, 
and if the covers can be screwed any tighter, do so. This will 
keep very nicely for a year or more, and they will be found to 
be of a delicious, fresh flavor when opened. — [Mrs. W. G., 
N. Y. 

Strawberry Preserves 

Hull, wash, drain and mash 4 qts strawberries and put 
them over the fire in a preserving kettle and bring slowly to a 
boil.^ Then strain through a jelly bag, pressing to extract the 
juice. To every pt juice add 1 pt sugar and boil all together 
briskly about 10 minutes, removing all skum that arises to 
the surface. Then, add 4 qts firm, ripe berries, and simmer 
gently for 10 minutes, after which skim out the berries care- 
fully, place into jars, fill with the boiling hot syrup, and seal 
at once. Raspberries may be preserved the same way, with 
the juice of 1 lemon added to every 4 lbs raspberries. — [Mrs. 
J. P. D.. Neb. 

Baked Canned Bhabarb 

Cut up rhubarb, mix with the required amount of sugar, 
and put In a covered dish in hot oven, but add no water. 
,When done, this will be a fine, rich sauce. Can while hot. — 

When rhubarb is in season, can a lot of the juice made into 
a thin syrup. It will help to make a fine jelly when cherries 
are ripe by using % rhubarb and Vz cherry juice. — [F. W. C, 
N. Y. 

To Can Bbnbarb in Cold Water 

Fresh, tender, young rhubarb need not be peeled as a rule. 
Wash, cut up in small pieces, pack into cans and fill with 
pure, running cold water. Let settle, then fill with water 
again, fill to overflowing, and seal air tight. Keep in a cool, 
dark and dry place, and when wanted, simply drain off the 
water and proceed as with fresh rhubarb. — [Mrs. D. W. B., 
N. Y. 



230 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Canned Bbnbarb and Strawberries 

Peel rhubarb, cut in small pieces and put over Are with 1 
qt sugar and a very little water. When done add 1 qt strawber- 
ries, cook about 5 or 10 minutes longer, and can and seal 
while hot. — [Mrs. E. F. H., N. Y. 

Preserved Pumpkin 

Slice 5 lbs pumpkin and 6 lemons in thin slices, discarding 
seeds, add 5 lbs sugar, mix thoroughly, and let stand in an 
earthen vessel about 2 days, in a cold place, after which let it 
boil gently till the pumpkin is clear and almost transparent. 
Can and seal. — [Mrs. 0. L. C, Mass. 

To Can Pumpkins or Sqnash 

As soon as my pumpkins or squash show signs of not keep- 
ing, I peel and cut them up and boil them till well done in 
just enough water to cover, then can and seal in air-tight jars. 
The cans must be overflowing full and the juice must cover 
the pumpkins, and all other canning precautions must be 
strictly observed. — [Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Canned Sweet Red Peppers 

"Wash dry 1 pk red bell peppers, cut a thin slice from the stem 
end of each and remove the seeds, then cut round and round 
the peppers with a pair of scissors, making strips >4 inch wide 
and as long as possible — in one piece, if this can be managed, 
something like a one-piece apple paring. Next cover the pep- 
per strips with boiling water, then drain off the water imme- 
diately and repeat this if the peppers are liked very mild. 
Next, put into ice water, using plenty of ice to chill thoroughly, 
then drain and pack solidly in pt jars. Boil 1 qt vinegar and 
2 cups sugar to the consistency of syrup, pour over the pep- 
pers in the jars and seal. Keep in a cold, dark and dry place. 
The above quantities will fill 4 pt jars. Peppers thus prepared 
retain their pretty red color and are nice for garnishing salads 
or for making cheese and pepper sandwiches. — [B. G. C, 
Washington, D. C. 

To Can Cncnmbers Sweet 

Select firm cucumbers about 2 inches long, wash and dry 
carefully and pack in a gal jar with small pieces of horse- 
radish. Bring 1 qt cider vinegar and 1 cup sugar to a boil 
and pour it over the cucumbers, while boiling hot. Cover and 
set away in a cool place over night. Next morning drain oft 



CANNED PEAS AND STRING BEANS 231 



the vinegar, boil it over again, and pour it over the cucum- 
bers, and repeat this 3 mornings, after which seal air tight 
and keep in a cool, dark and dry place. The can should be 
full to overflowing when sealed. — tMrs. E. R. MoC, Tenn. 

Cucumber Preserves 

Use firm, ripe cucumbers, just turning yellow, peel, dis- 
card seeds and cut in 2 or 3-inch pieces. Soak In weak salt 
water about 8 hours, then drain and dry carefully with a clean 
towel and drop into a boiling syrup made of 2 qts cider vine- 
gar, 2% lbs sugar and % oz mixed whole spices. Put the 
spices in a small cheese cloth bag. Boil slowly 20 minutes, 
then take out the spice bag and boil the cucumbers in the 
syrup until they are soft and transparent, after which skim 
out the pieces, drain thoroughly, put them in a glass jar,, 
boil syrup until thick, pour over the cucumbers, and seal. — 
[Mrs. J. D. C. Cal. 

To Can Peas 

Can peas immediately after gathering. Shell them, and. 
pack them in the cans as tightly as possible without breaking- 
them, add a little salt, then fill the cans overflowing full with 
cold water, pouring it in until all bubbles have disappeared.. 
Put on rubbers and covers, but do not screw the covers tight. 
Place the cans in a boiler with the usual packing on the bot- 
tom and between the cans, pour in cold water within an inch 
of the tops of the cans, cover the boiler, bring to a boil, and 
boil for 3 hours. Then remove boiler from fire, screw the 
covers on the cans as tightly as possible, and leave in the hot 
water until cold. — LMiss G. R.. N. Y. 

To Can String Beans 

Wash, drain and break in pieces tender, meaty, freshly gath- 
ered, green string beans or butter beans, and cook until almost 
done in well salted water. Turn into glass jars, and into each 
can pour 2 tablesp hot vinegar. Fill up with the juice and seal 
air tight. When ready to use, if the beans are too salty, or the- 
vinegar taste is not liked, soak them a little in clear water, and 
finish by cooking them with salt pork. — [Mrs. S. D. P., O. 

To Can String Beans With Bacon 

String tender, freshly gathered beans, break in small pieces^ 
and put over the fire with water enough to cover. Place a. 
piece of boneless breakfast bacon in the center of the beans. 
Use about 1 lb bacon to Vz pk beans. Cook until tender, then 
pack the beans in cans, hot. Lay a slice of bacon on the top of 



232 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

each, about % inch thick, cover well with the liquid in which 
the beans were boiled, and seal. Be sure that there are no air 
1)ubbles in the can. This recipe has been used in our family for 
three generations, and if properly packed, free from air, and 
sealed air tight, the beans thus canned will keep two years or 
more. When ready to use, heat the beans thoroughly, and they 
are ready to serve, and will be found to be as delicious as if 
they had just come from the garden. — [Mrs. E. E. W., Pa 

To Can Beets 

Cook and peel the beets in the usual way. To each qt beets 
allow % pt vinegar and % pt water, to which add % cup 
sugar, % teasp mixed spices, and a little horseradish, which 
keeps the beets from turning white. Let all come to a boil, 
drop in the beets, boil up once more, and flU the cans with 
beets, being careful to cover them fully with the spiced vine- 
gar. Seal air tight in the usual way. — [Mrs. L. W., Ind. 

Canned Sweet Com I 

Only good, deep, milky, ripe corn is worth while canning. 
Pick, strip and cook immediately, the same as for table use. 
Then with a sharp knife shave off the kernels, but do not cut 
too near the cob. After cutting scrape the balance of the corn 
and milk from the cobs, using the back of a silver knife. Use 
2 tablesp salt for each qt corn and add a very little sugar, if 
liked, but if the corn is sweet, sugar will not be necessary. 
Put over the Are in a porcelain-lined kettle with barely enough, 
water to cover and let it boil until tender, stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. Fill jars while boiling hot, to within Vi 
inch of the top, being careful to pack solidly and to break all 
the air bubbles by running a silver spoon or fork through the 
•contents. Then fill to overflowing with melted butter and 
screw on the covers tightly. When opened freshen corn in 
clear water, add a little milk, and it will taste like fresh corn. 
— [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. 

Canned Sweet Com II 

Pick, cut and scrape corn as directed in recipe No. 1. Then 
measure the corn and to 6 qts allow 1 oz tartaric acid. When 
the corn is done, dissolve the acid in some hot water, stir it in 
and cook 5 minutes longer. Then can and seal while hot. 
When ready to use, heat the corn, dissolve % teasp bi-carbon- 
ate of soda, in a little water or milk and stir this into the com, 
adding seasoning to taste. Canned thus, I have been told that 
mine tasted just like the canned, tinned corn bought in stores. 
' — [No name. 



CANNED CORN AND TOMATOES 23S 



Canned Com Salad 

^To 18 ears green corn, cut from the cob, add 4 large onions, 
J^green peppers or 1 ripe pepper, 1 large white cabbage, all 
CBopiwd fine, scant % cup salt and 1 qt vinegar. Cook about 
15 minutes. Boil together 1 qt vinegar, 2 tablesp ground 
mustard, 1 teasp cinnamon, 2 cups sugar and 1 scant cup flour. 
When done add to the above mixture and cook all together 
until thoroughly mixed and heated through. Can hot and seaL 
I— [R. W., Mo. 

Canned Com and Tomatoes 

Select perfectly sound, ripe tomatoes and full tender corn. 
Peel the tomatoes and remove the green cores. Cut and 
scrape the corn from the cob and boil the corn and tomatoes 
together, allowing a cup of tomatoes to a qt of corn. Salt, boil 
until done and can in the usual way. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Green Tomato Preserves 

For each lb green tomatoes allow % lb sugar, and % lemon. 
Melt the sugar in a very little water, add the grated rind and 
juice of the lemon then put in the green tomatoes, washed, 
trimmed and cut in quarters, but not peeled. Cook gently 
until tomatoes are tender and transparent. If desired, a little 
ginger root can be cooked with the tomatoes, or the preserves 
can be flavored with cinnamon or cloves. This will keep with- 
out sealing air tight, but it is better to put up in small jars, as 
it is so rich that only a little is wanted at a time. — [L. S., Me. 

,To Can Bipe Tomatoes 

Use only good. Arm, ripe tomatoes, discarding all doubtful 
and imperfect ones. Peel with a sharp knife, or by scalding 
them in hot water a few minutes, cut out all the hard parts, 
and cut the tomatoes in halves or quarters, according to their 
size. Put in a perfectly clean preserving kettle of agate ware, 
©r porcelain lined, and be sure that no taste or odor, or any 
sign of its previous contents are noticeable. Set on the back of 
the stove a few minutes to extract the juices, then draw to the 
front and let them boil 15 or 20 minutes, or until tender, and 
thoroughly heated through. A little salt to taste may be 
added, if desired, but it is not necessary, and the tomatoes may 
be strained or not, before canning. I think it is better not to 
strain them. Have the sterilized jars and covers ready in the 
usual way, fill up the jars with the boiling hot tomatoes, pass. 
a silver fork or spoon through the contents to cut the air bub- 
bles, shake the jar gently to settle contents, and when you are 
absolutely sure that it is packed as closely as possible, and 



234 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

there are no more air bubbles in the can, fill to overflowing 
with the juice and screw on the hot covers as tight as possible. 
Put no more of the juice in the cans than necessary. The sur- 
plus juice can be bottled and sealed separately and used for 
soup flavorings, - etc. If the tomatoes were good, and no 
decayed spots or particles were allowed to slip in, and if the 
jars and covers were properly sterilized, and the rubbers were 
new, and the covers fitted perfectly, and if no air was canned in 
with the tomatoes, then there is absolutely no reason why they 
should spoil. Be absolutely sure that the jars are sealed air 
tight, and when cooled brush edge of the lids with melted par- 
affine. Do not lift the cans by the tops as this would loosen 
the lids. Slip a paper bag over each can, and store in a cool, 
dark and dry place. It is best not to attempt to can tomatoes 
on a very hot, or sultry day, when the air is damp and full of 
unwholesome germs, and it is also best not to attempt to do 
too much canning in one day. — [A. G., Mass. 

Spiced Ripe Tomatoes 

To 12 lbs ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, add 4 lbs brown 
sugar, 1 gt vinegar, 1 tablesp each allspice and cloves and 2 
tablesp cinnamon. Cook until thick, stirring often to prevent 
scorching, and seal while hot. — [Mrs. W. G., Mo. 

To Can Dandelion or Other Greens 

Pick the dandelion greens before they are in bud or blossom, 
digging down deep for them. Discard all the tough leaves and 
buds, wash and rinse thoroughly, and cook until tender in 
salted water. Then drain and pack into the cans while hot, 
and fill with clear, boiling hot water, and then screw on covers 
loosely. Be sure that there are no air spaces or air bubbles 
left in the cans. Place the cans in a boiler of water, proceed- 
ing in the usual manner, and boil for 15 minutes, after which 
seal tight. Beet, mustard, spinach and other greens can be 
'Canned in the same way. — [B. F. H., Me. 



Cherries should be washed well several times to remove that 
strong taste so common to cherry preserves. — [Mrs. M. M. B., 
Mo. 

Mulberries will not keep if canned alone. They should be 
combined with gooseberries, or with the juice of rhubarb. — 
[E. H.. 111. 

The best apples for preserving are the old-fashioned "sweet- 
ing," as they will not boil to pieces like tart apples. They 
>requlre the same proportions and treatment as the peach.—' 
f Mrs. A. A. W.. N. 0. 




Jellies, Jams and Marmalades 

lY the time winter sets in, jellies, jams and 
marmalades are in great demand, and it 
therefore behooves the careful housewife 
to put up a goodly supply of these delec- 
table sweets. When made at home from 
good material, by the following recipes, 
they will prove to be as palatable as they are wholesome. 
For jellies, fruit not yet fully ripe is best, and for jams, 
marmalades or "butters" (which are almost identical in 
composition), fully ripe fruit may be used and such that 
are not perfect enough for canning whole, but are never- 
theless all right for cutting up and boiling down with 
sugar. It is a waste of time and sugar to try to use fruit 
that is not good — therefore, don't. 

Some Jelly Bnles 

The principal rules governing jelly making from fruit, 
applicable to almost all kinds of berries and fruits, are as 
follows: Berries or fruit should not be too ripe. They are in 
the best state just before ripening. Use only sound fruit, 
pick over carefully, wash and drain, mash, and put over a 
slow flre to extract the juices. In the case of very juicy 
fruit, water need not be added, and for others a very little 
water will do — just enough to prevent burning. When done 
and the juices run freely from the fruit, turn into a jelly bag 
and let drain all night. Do not squeeze the bag to extract 
the juice, unless the recipe especially calls for such a proceed- 
ing, as otherwise the juice will become cloudy. The pulp 
that remains can often be used for jams or marmalades or 
pies, with the addition of sugar and spices. 

In the morning measure the juice, and then measure out 
the same quantity of sugar, or a little less in the case of 
naturally sweet fruit. Put the sugar in the oven to heat, 
but be careful not to let it burn. Put the juice over the 
fire in a granite or porcelain-lined kettle kept strictly for 
such purposes, and allow it to boil briskly from 15 to 20 
minutes. Then add the hot sugar, stir until dissolved, and 
boil 5 to 10 minutes longer. Test, and remove from the 
flre as soon as it Is ready to "jell." Pour at once Into clean. 



236 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

•warm, dry glasses, placed on a folded towel wrung out of 
hot water, cover with mosquito netting, and let get cold. 
The next morning cover the top of the jelly in each glass 
•with fitted rounds of ■white paper dipped In hrandy or alcohol, 
and either pour over a layer of melted parafflne, or cover with 
several layers of paper, securely tied down over the sides of 
the glasses. Set away in a cool, dry and dark place. — [A. &., 
Mass. 

About Preserving Kettles and Jelly Bags 

Never use a kettle in which meats, vegetables, pickles, etc., 
have been cooked, for canning or sweet preserving, no matter 
how carefully you may clean it. It 'will always retain some of 
the old cooking flavor and mar the preserve products. It is 
economy to keep one or more good granite or porcelain-lined 
kettles specially for jellies, jams and marmalades. Clean at 
once after each using, and do not be content with the ordinary 
washing, but fill with hot water, add a teasp of baking 
soda, and let stand a while to sweeten the kettle, and also 
to remove fruit discolorations. Never use rough scouring 
soap to clean the inside of a preserving kettle, as that would 
ruin the enamel and cause the contents to burn so much more 
easily. 

Jelly bags are best made of cheese cloth, of one or two 
thicknesses. Some cooks prefer flannel, claiming that the 
juice will come through this clearer. If the jelly bags are 
made in pointed, oval shape, about 12 inches wide (double) 
on top and tapering down to 3 or 4 inches at the bottom, 
that will be found to be much more convenient and satis- 
factory. A cheap wire extension arm used for hanging up 
bird cages is a great convenience in the kitchen in preserving 
time. The jelly bag can be hung up oh this, and the drip 
vessel placed -on a chair directly beneath. If flies or gnats 
are plentiful, envelop the bag, bowl and chair with a mosquito 
netting. — [A. G., Mass. 

Spiced Apple Jelly 

For % pk sour apples allow 2 pts vinegar, 1 pt water, 
1% ozs stick cinnamon, and 1 oz whole cloves. Boil all 
together, and drain through a jelly bag over night. For 
every pt juice allow 1 lb sugar, and boil until it jellies. This 
Is nice served with meat. — [Mrs. H. J. T., Vt. 

Apple JeUy 

Wipe the apples carefully, remove stem and blossom ends, 
cut out affected parts, and cut in quarters, discarding all 
wormy apples. Put over the fire in a preserving kettle with 



APPLE AND CURRANT JELLY 237 

cold water to half coTer. Cook slowly until tie apples are 
soft. If a few elderberries or blackberries are cooked with 
the apples the color will be much improved. Strain through 
jelly bag over night. Next morning measure juice and for 
each cup allow % cup sugar. Set sugar in oven, boil the 
juice 20 minutes, add hot sugar, boil 5 minutes longer, and 
then turn into jelly glasses.. — [Mrs. C. J. H., Vt. 

Apple and Grape Jelly 

Cook grapes and apples separately until soft, then drain 
in separate bags over night. To 1 part grape juice add 2 
parts apple juice, and allow two-thirds as much sugar as you 
have combined juice (measured before boiling). Add sugar 
hot to juice, after it has boiled 20 minutes, and let boil a few 
minutes longer, or until it is ready to "jell."^ — [Mrs. J. J. C, 
Mich. 

Quince Jelly 

This may be made of parings, if a little of the whole 
fruit is added, but all seeds must be removed, and blossom 
and stem ends. Almost cover with cold water, cook until 
very soft, then strain through a jelly bag over night. Allow 
% pt sugar to 1 pt juice. Boil the juice from 15 to 20 
minutes, skim, and then add sugar which should have been 
thoroughly heated in oven. Let boil up a few minutes, and 
then turn into glasses. One-half quince and one-half apple- 
makes a very nice jelly. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Red Currant Jelly 

Select not too ripe currants, pick over carefully, put them 
in a preserving kettle, and let stand on back of range until 
juices draw. Stir occasionally until skins are broken, and 
then pour into jelly bag and let drain over night. To each 
pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Put sugar in oven to heat, put 
juice over Are, and boil and skim 20 minutes, then add hot 
sugar, until melted, and let boil up again a few minutes, 
after which remove from Are and fill at once into jelly 
glasses. Let them stand in the sun as long as possible that 
day, but be careful to cover the glasses with a netting to 
prevent any flies from falling in. Jelly made by this formula 
will be clear, and have that sparkle so much admired and 
desired. Other berry or fruit jellies can be made in the 
same manner. — ^[L. E. B., Ind. 

Black Currant JeUy 

Boil black currants in almost as much water as you have 
fruit. Drain in jelly bag over night, and for each qt juice 
allow 1 pt sugar. Boil 3 hours. Black currant needs longer 
boiling then other jellies. — [Mrs. A. L. C, Okla. 



238 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Grape Jelly 

Use grapes that are just beginning to ripen, but not quite 
ripe. Pick, wasli and boil slowly with a very little water 
about 15 minutes. Strain through, jelly bag over night, 
then heat juice to boiling point, add an equal quantity of 
sugar, thoroughly heated in oven, and boil briskly about 5 
minutes, and then turn at once into jelly glasses. Green 
grape jelly can also be made by this recipe. — [R. M. P., Mass. 

Green Grape Jelly 

Wash and pick over grapes carefully, partly cover with 
iwater, and let boil until soft, stirring and mashing while 
they are cooking. Turn into jelly bag and let drain over 
night, then boil juice 20 minutes, skim, and to each pt juice 
{(measured before boiling) allow 1 lb sugar, heated in the 
oven. Let boil up a few minutes, and then turn into jelly 
glasses. — [No Name. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Use not too ripe red berries. Pick over carefully and wash 
and drain. To 2 qts berries allow 1 scant pt cold water, boil 
briskly about 15 minutes, then turn into a jelly bag and drain 
over night. In the morning bring the juice to a boil, add 
2 lbs sugar, which has been thoroughly heated in the oven, 
and boil all together about 20 minutes, stirring constantly. — 
[M. B., 111. 

Elderberry Jelly 

Put the elderberries over the flre with barely enough water 
to cover, and when done turn them into a jelly bag and drain 
over night. When making elderberry jelly I always squeeze 
the jelly bag to get out the good clear juice. Measure the 
juice and for each pt allow 1 lb sugar. Bring the juice 
to a boil, and then boil 20 minutes, add the sugar which 
should have been heated thoroughly in the oven, let it boil 
up thoroughly once more, and pour into jars. This will not 
get solid like other jellies. We like to eat it with pancakes 
In the winter. — [Mrs. E. B., N. T. 

Barberry Jelly 

Boil together until soft 4 qts barberries and 12 large, sour 
apples, adding no more water than necessary. Let drain over 
night, and for each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Put juice over 
flre with juice of 3 oranges, a little of the thin orange peel, 
,(but none of the white part) and % lb seedless raisins. Boil 



GOOSEBERRY AND STRAWBERRY JELLIES 239' 

r 

until orange peel and raisins are soft, then carefully skim 
these out, add the sugar, which should first have been 
thoroughly heated in the oven, and boil about 15 minutes. — ■ 
[Mrs. W. H. M., Mass. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Carefully pick and wash the gooseberries, and to each pt 
allow % pt water. Simmer until berries are all broken, then 
turn into jelly bag and let drain over night. Measure juice 
and boil briskly about 15 minutes, then stir in an equal 
amount heated sugar, and boil steadily about % hour. — i 
[L. E. B., Ind. 

Baspberry or Blackberry Jelly 

Pick berries over carefully, wash and drain, and put over 
fire with just enough water to keep from burning. Stir and 
mash while cooking, and when well done, turn into jelly 
bag and let drain over night. Do not squeeze the bag if you 
want nice, clear jelly. Boil and skim juice about 10 minutes, 
then measure, and for each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Heat 
sugar and add it to the boiling juice. Boil about 15 or 20 
minutes, or until it is ready to "jell." — [Mrs. A. C, Va. 

Cherry Jelly 

Sour cherries, not too ripe, are best. Wash and drain, add 
a very little water, and let simmer slowly % hour, then turn into 
jelly bag, and let drain all night. For 2 cups juice allow 1 % 
cups sugar. Bring juice to boiling point, boil 20 minutes, then 
add sugar, which should have been thoroughly heated in the 
oven, boil up briskly for another few minutes, and turn at 
once into jelly glasses. The jelly will be firmer if % part 
currant juice is added to the cherry juice. — [Mrs. O. M. 
P., N. H. 

Plnin Jelly 

Choose plums that are not too ripe and put over fire with 
water enoijgh to half cover. Boil until soft, turn into jelly 
bag and let drain over night. Measure juice, add an equal 
amount sugar, and boil and skim. When it is ready to "jell," 
which will be when it is thick enough to drop slowly from a 
spoon, turn at once into jelly glasses. — [Mrs. F. M. C, Tex. 

Strawberry Jelly 

Use only fine colored, fresh berries; pick over carefully, 
wash and drain, and put in a porcelain-lined kettle on back 



240 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

of range to draw juices. Stir and mash with, a wooden spoon. 
When juice runs freely, turn berries into jelly bag and let 
drain over night. Allow 1 lb sugar for each pt juice.- Let 
juice boil about 15 minutes, then add heated sugar, and' boil 
10 minutes longer. The left-over pulp can be used for jam. — 
£F. L., Wis. 

Bhnbarb Jelly 

To 4 qts rhubarb cut in small pieces, but not peeled, add 
about % or % qt washed cherry leaves, about 1 pt fresh 
water, and cook slowly until rhubarb is tender. Strain through 
a jelly bag over night. For each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. 
Bring juice to a quick boil, boil about 20 minutes, skim, 
and then add sugar, which should have been previously heated 
In the oven. Boil briskly another 5 minutes, and then turn 
at once into jelly glasses. Instead of cherry leaves, orange 
juice can be used as a flavoring. The cherry leaves will im- 
part to the rhubarb a delicious flavor of cherries. — [Mrs. W. 
V. L., Me. 

Tomato Jelly 

Wash, drain and cut in halves 4 qts yellow tomatoes. Boil 
until soft, then turn into jelly bag and let drain over night. 
Allow % cup granulated sugar for each cup juice. Let juice 
boil 20 minutes, then turn in the sugar, heated, and boil 
about 15 minutes longer. I allow 1 slice lemon, pits removed, 
to every qt juice, and skim lemon out just before turning 
jelly into glasses. — [Mrs. G. W. A., Pa. 

Rules for Preparing Jams and Marmalades 

Fully ripe fruit or berries can be used for jams, but it will 
not pay to use over-ripe fruit. Berries should be carefully 
picked over, washed and drained and put on the back of the 
stove in an agate or porcelain-lined kettle with 14 or %| 
the amount of sugar. Stir and when the sugar is melted, 
bring the kettle to the front of the stove and let the Jam 
boil until it begins to thicken, which will be from 20 to 30 
minutes. Stir frequently to prevent burning and skim off 
all skum that rises to the surface. Apples, peaches, pears, 
etc., should be peeled, cored and quartered and if the fruit 
is not juicy enough, add a very little water. Jams may be 
put up the same as jellies, in glasses or jars, and no air- 
tight sealing is necessary, a layer of melted parafSne and a 
cover of paper being sufficient. Set away in a cool, dark and 
dry place.-— [A. G., Mass. 




PREPARING WATERMELON RIND FOR 'PRESERVES. 




MAKING PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 



APPLE AND CRABAPPLE JAMS 241 

Uncooked Jam and Jelly 

This is my most valued recipe and my cold jam and jelly 
are considered by the family as quite superior to anything 
else in the way of canned fruit, retaining as they do the delicacy 
and delicious flavor of the fresh fruit. Berries are especially 
adapted to this method of preserving, although I suppose any 
soft acid fruit could be used. I have used very soft, ripe 
apricots with success. Currants should be used with rasp- 
berries to supply the necessary acidity. Take equal parts 
of perfectly fresh, ripe fruit and granulated sugar. Thor- 
oughly mash fruit or put it through a colander or fruit press — 
anything that will reduce it to a smooth pulp. Add sugar 
and stir with a wooden spoon for % hour or more, until 
you feel certain every grain of sugar is dissolved, as in this 
lies the secret of its keeping. Then pour immediately into 
glasses and set uncovered in a cool, dry place for a week 
or so, until a thin sugary crust has formed on the top, when 
it may be covered like any jelly and set away, being careful 
to keep it in a cool place. It will be firm and solid as jelly 
after standing a few days. Of course for jelly the juice must 
be strained. — [Miss N. S. C, Cal, 

Apide Jam 

Weigh equal quantities brown sugar and good sour apples, 
add very little water to sugar and boil until syrupy. Then 
add apples, peeled, cored . and quartered, grated rinds of 2 
or 3 lemons and few pieces white ginger. Boil until apples 
look clear and yellow. This resembles foreign sweet-meats. 
On no account omit the ginger. — [Mrs, L, "W. B., R. I. 

Grabapple Jam 

Wash crabapples and put in a kettle with barely enough 
water to cover. Simmer until they can readily be reduced 
to a pulp with a potato masher, then strain through a coarse 
sieve, measure and to 1 part pulp add % part sugar. Return 
to fire and cook slowly about % hour. Pour into glasses 
and seal with paraflSne. — [Mrs. J. H. C, N. Y. 

Elderberry Jam 

To % part elderberries add 1 part tart apples, and to 
every lb of this mixture add %' lb sugar and a very little 
water, if necessary. Flavor with lemon juice or any preferred 
spices. Boil until the consistency of apple butter. — [R. A. 
H.. Mo. 



242 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Cherry Jam 

Stone 3 lbs cherries, stir in 2 lbs sugar, let stand 10 oi 
12 hours, then boil slowly until converted into a smosth 
jam. — [E. K.. Mass. 

StraTrberry Jam 

Hull, wash and drain the berries, mash, add an eaual 
quantity sugar or a little less sugar if very sweet jamT< are 
not liked, put over a slow flre, bring to the boiling point 
and boil about 20 minutes. Test by taking out a teaspoonful 
on a saucer, and if the liquid does not jelly when cool, boil 
a little longer. About % part currants added to the straw- 
berries is a great improvement. — [A. G., Mass. 

Baspberry and Blackberry Jam 

To each lb berries add %, lb sugar, and if berries are not 
juicy enough, a very little water. I always add some currants 
to raspberry jam as they provide just the necessary acidy 
flavor. Some people like a little cinnamon flavoring. Boil 
until it thickens and the juice is ready to jelly. Put away 
in glasses or jars and seal with paraffine. — [A. G., Mass. 

Rhubarb Jam 

To 2% lbs rhubarb, cut in small pieces, add 2 lbs sugar, 
1 cup vinegar, 1 teasp cinnamon and % teasp cloves. Boil 
about % hour and when thick pour in glasses and seal with 
paraflSne. — [A. McL., 111. 

Wild Cherry and Grape Jam 

Boil 2 gals wild cherries with barely enough water to 
cover them, until they are soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
In another vessel boil 1 gal green grapes the same way, and 
afterwards combine the pulp of the two with %, as much 
sugar as pulp, and boll together about 2 hours.^ — [Mrs. J. 
K., Neb. 

Cold Currant Jam 

Stir well together equal parts mashed currants and granu- 
lated sugar, let stand over night, then stir up again and 
pour into glass jars, seal, and keep in a cool place. Be sure 
every currant is mashed. This is nice to serve with roast 
meats. — [Mrs. D. J. C. N. Y. 



PLUM AND PEACH JAMS 243 

Baked Gooseberry Jam 

Use gooseberries tbat are not too ripe, place a layer in an 
earthern or granite-ware vessel, cover with sugar, put in 
another layer of gooseberries, cover with sugar again, and so 
on until the pan is almost filled. Then add 1 pt water to every 
6 lbs gooseberries, place in a moderately heated oven, and 
leave it there till the sugar is converted into a syrup and the 
contents begin to boil. Put up in small jars, not forgetting 
to pour a fine sheet of paraffine over the top, which will 
prevent moulding. — [F. L. B. R., Ct. 

Tomato Jam 

To 4 lbs peeled and sliced ripe tomatoes, add 2 lbs sugar, 
1 pt vinegar and salt, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Cook 
till thick, like fruit jam. — [Mrs. J. B. M., N. Y. 

Rhubarb and Baspberry Jam 

Peel and cut rhubarb in small pieces and for each lb allow 
1 lb raspberries and 2 lbs sugar. Boil together slowly and 
steadily until it jellies when a little Is tested on a cold 
plate. Strawberries and rhubarb may be combined in the 
same way. — [Mrs. N. M. P., N. H. 

Damson Jam 

Allow % lb sugar for each lb fruit. Wash fruit and boil 
with just enough water to prevent scorching. When soft 
press through a colander, then return the pulp to the kettle, 
add the sugar and a few blanched kernels of the plums. Boil 
gently until the consistency of jelly, skimming off the skum. 
After it has cooled off a little, pour into small earthern jam 
pots, jelly glasses or jars. Damson jam is an excellent side 
dish to serve with meats, game or poultry. — [O. M. P., N. H. 

Baked Peach Jam 

Use ripe, perfect fruit, pare and remove the stones, mash 
as fine as possible, turn into an earthemware or agate dish, 
place in a hot oven and cook for ah hour or more. Then put 
in about half as much sugar as there is fruit and cook 1 
or 2 hours longer, or until the consistency of jam. — [J. L. 
R., O. 

Apricot Jam 

Select good, ripe fruit and to every lb, after peeling and 
stoning, allow % lb sugar. Crack a few of the stones, take 



244 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



out the kernels and blanch them, after which add them to 
the fruit with the sugar. Cover well and let stand over 
night. The following morning put over the fire and boU 
slowly about 1 hour or until the CMisistency of jam, — [Miss 
N. L. R.. Ct. 

Gbeny Marmalade 

Remove stones from cherries, crush the stones, put in a 
kettle with a small quantity of water, and boil until the 
flavor is extracted. Put fruit in a preserving kettle, add 
a little clear water and boil until reduced to a pulp, stirring 
frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent sticking. For 
each lb fruit allow % lb sugar and add sugar to the straln«d 
water in which the stones have been cooked and boil until 
transparent bubbles appear en top. Pour this syrup over the 
fruit and continue boiling and stirring until thick and smooth. 
. — [A. G., Mass. 

Orange Marmalade 

Boil the thin yellow peel (none of the white rind) of 1 doz 
ripe oranges in just enough water to cover. When tender, drain 
off the water and chop the peel in fine pieces. Peel the oranges, 
pull to pieces, and discard all the white parts, fibre and seeds, 
and add 1 cup sugar to each cup orange pulp. Let this 
stand until the sugar Is dissolved, stirring frequently, then 
add the boiled and chopi)ed orange peel and boil all together 
about 20 minutes. If the oranges are not tart, the juice of 
1 lemon may be added. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Qnlnce Marmalade 

'The fruit should be quite ripe. Peel, quarter and core, and 
cook until soft in a very little water, then rub through a 
sieve, weigh the pulp, add an equal weight of sugar, and boil 
slowly until of the proper consistency. — [Mrs. A. C. McP., O. 

3Ilxed Fmlt Marmalade 

Take % pk each peaches, pears, apples and quinces. Pare, 
core and slice at night, pack into a porcelain-lined kettle in 
alternate layers of sugar and fruit. Allow % lb sugar to 
1 lb fruit. Next morning put over a moderate fire and cook 
about 6 hours, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. — 
[R. R., Md. 

Mnskmelon Marmalade 

Peel and cut up muskmelons, discarding the soft puly 
and seeds. Cut the melon in small pieces, add a very little 



APPLE AND PEACH BUTTERS 245 

water and the juice of 1 lemon to every 2 melons. Boll until 
thick, then measure and add % as much sugar, and boil 
again until very thick. — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Watermelon Marmalade 

Cut out the red meat from a ripo watermelon, discard the- 
seeds, squeeze out the juice, add % as much sugar as there 
Is juice and boil down to a thick syrup, then put in the 
chapped red pulp and cook until clear. Seal. — [Mrs, P. J. S., 
Tex. 

Cranberry and Quince Marmalade 

Cook cranberries with a very little water until soft, and 
rub through a colander. Proceed the same way with quince 
cores and peelings and mix together equal quantities of each 
pulp. Add 1 cup sugar to every 2 cups of the mixture and 
cook until it is the consistency of marmalade. This is nice 
served with chickeA. — [L. E. C, Cal. 

Apple Batter 

Bring 10 gals sweet cider to the boiling point, then add 
1 bu apples, peeled, cored and quartered. Let boil, skim 
the froth as it rises, and stir frequently. When it has boiled 
down about half, add sugar or molasses to suit taste and boil 
again until a little when put on a cold dish and cooled will 
form a nice crust on top. Add a little cinnamon and cloves, 
or any spices to suit taste, and put away in crocks or jars. — i 
[Unidentified. 

Crab Apple Batter 

Wash % bu crab apples, trim oft blossom and stem ends, 
cut each apple in half, and remove any wormy parts. Put 
in a preserving kettle over the fire, cover with cold water, 
let boil until very soft, and after it has cooled a little, rub 
through a wire sieve. To 3 cups of the sifted pulp, add 1 
cup sugar, let come to the boiling point and boil 20 minutes. — 
[Mrs. D. L. A.. Ore. 

Peach Butter 

Select ripe peaches, peel, remove stones and defective parts, 
cut in small pieces and put over the flre in a porcelain-lined 
kettle with a very little water. Boil slowly until soft, then 
press through a colander and to each qt of the strained 
pulp, add 1% lbs sugar. Boil slowly 1 hour, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning. If liked, this jam can be seasoned 
sparingly with cloves, cinnamon or allspice. — [Mrs. C. C, N. D. 



246 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Plum Butter 

Wash, put Into a kettle, cover with water, boil until thor- 
oughly cooked, then let cool, and rub through sieve or 
colander. A medium sized muskmelon added to every 2 
qts of plums greatly improves the flavor, but may be omitted. 
For each lb fruit pulp, allow % lb sugar. Boil gently about 
3 hours. Skim well and stir often. Put into glass jars 
and seal tight. — [Mrs. W. S., Neb. 

Tomato Butter 

Peel 10 lbs ripe tomatoes, add 4 lbs apples, peeled, cored 
and quartered, and put In a preserving kettle over a moderate 
fire. Let boil about 1 hour, stirring occasionally to prevent 
scorching, then add 8 lbs sugar, the juice of 4 lemons, and 1 
tablesp powder ginger. Cook slowly and stir frequently, till 
reduced to the consistency of marmalade. — [Miss J. B. W., 
Kan. 

Pumpkin or Squash Butter 

Peel pumpkins^, remove pulp and seeds, cut into small 
pieces and stew in a very little water until soft, then add 
% as much sugar and spices to suit taste, and boil down until 
very dark or until it cannot boil any longer without sticking, 
stirring constantly. Put up boiling hot in fruit jars. Squash 
butter is made the same way. To dry pumpkin, stew until 
soft in as little water as possible, then mash fine, adding 1 
tablesp sugar or molasses to each pt pumpkin, and stew slowly 
until it is almost dry. Spread about 1 inch thick on greased 
pans and place in a moderate oven till thoroughly dry, turn- 
ing around when necessary. After It Is dry and cold put up 
in paper bags and hang in a dry place. Soak pieces of this 
in a little water over night when wanted for pies. — [Mrs. J. 
C. T., Ore. 

Grabapple Tumble 

To 7 lbs crabapples, quartered and cored, but not pared, 
add 1 lb sugar, 2 lbs seeded raisins, and yellow peel and pulp 
of 2 oranges, discarding seeds and white parts. Cook all 
together with just enough water to dissolve sugar. When 
done It should be of a thick, honey-like consistency, and a 
clear, reddish amber In color. This will make about 1 gal 
and will keep Indefinitely, sealed In a jar. — [Mrs. B. G. F., 
N. Y. 

Spiced Cranberries 

Tie up In a small cheese cloth bag, 2 tablesp ground cinna- 
mon, 1 tablesp ground cloves and % tablesp ground allspice. 



FBUIT HONEY AND PASTE 247 

and simmer slowly % hour in 1 cup water. Then add to the 
spiced water 7 lbs cranberries, 3 % lbs sugar and 2 cups cider 
Tinegar. Cook slowly until as thick as marmalade. Pour 
Into glasses and when perfectly cool, seal with melted paraf- 
flne, or cover securely with paper. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Quince Honey 

Peel and grate 3 or 4 good sized, ripe and juicy quinces, 
and add to a briskly boiling syrup made of 3 pts sugar and 
1 pt water. Boil 20 minutes after the quince has been added. 
As quick as the quinces are grated, turn them into the 
syrup. Allow the kettle to stand on the back of the stove 
until all are in. — [Mrs. D. A. F., Pa. 

Fig Paste 

Wash and cut fine 1 lb figs, add 1 qt cold water, bring slowly 
to the boiling point, and then cook slowly 1 hour. Next add 
3 cups sugar, and cook until it thickens like jelly when a little 
of it is cooled. Settle in jelly glasses. This is very nice to 
eat with warm biscuits, or for layer cake, and is excellent 
to make sweet sandwiches for the children's lunch. — [Mrs. 
J. D., N. Y. 



It is best not to try to make large quantities of jellies or 
jams at one time. When made in small quantities — a quart or 
two at a time — ^they turn out much better. — [A. G., Mass. 

A little lemon juice added to blackberry jam when it is 
boiling improves the flavor. — [No name. 

If you object to the raspberry and blackberry seeds in jam, 
run them through a fine wire sieve after boiling the berries 
until soft, and before adding the sugar. — [A. G., Mass. 

By adding % apple pulp to % blackberry pulp, a nice jelly 
of improved flavor is obtained. — [A. G., Mass. 

For strawberry jam, I use the following proportions: 4 lbs 
stsawbarries, 2 lbs sugar, 1 pt currant juice. — [L. E. B., Ind. 

An open box of thyme placed In the closet in which jams, 
jellies and preserves are stored will prevent mould from 
gathering; on them. — [Mrs. M. A. P.. Hi. 



24 S FARM ANB HOME COOK BOOK 



Jelly Jottings 

When making peach jelly it is an improvement to add some 
sour apples. This will help to make the jelly more firm. 



U 



When making elderberry jelly add a few green grapes to 
supply the necessary acid — more or less grapes, according to 
how ripe the elderberries are. 

Save the nice peelings when canning peaches; put some 
apple parings with them, and oook together. More or less 
apples can be used as de^red, as long as there are not apples 
enough to kill the peach flavor. 

Ripe blackberry jelly is improved by adding a few unripe 
or red ones when cooking. Cook the same day the berries 
are gathered. — [Mrs. J. F. B., Pa. 

By using different colored fruit together one can have 
several kinds of j«Ule3 — white peaches and light colored apples 
will make the jelly light, and by adding red apple parings one 
can obtain various shades of red. 

Filled jam or jelly glasses should not be covered until the 
contents are thoroughly cold, as otherwise the evaporation will 
cause a mould to form on top. — [A. G., Mass. 

Blanch 3 or 4 peach kernels, chop fine, and add to the 
peach marmalade to improve the flavor. Add juice and rind 
of a lemon, or some essence of cinnamon can also be used for 
flavoring. — [No name. 

If tart apples can not be obtained when making jelly, the 
juice of 1 or 2 lemons added to the syrup is sufficient to im- 
part the desired flavor, and will aid in making the jelly 
firm. — [R. R.. Md. 

\ Add a small cup of rhubarb juice to each qt of grape pre- 
serves or jelly. This will prevent the formation of those 
crystals in grape preserves, otherwise called "grape sugar." 
The acid in the rhubarb neutralizes this "grape sugar." — i 
[Mrs. A. B., Col. 

Equal parts of strained plum or pear pulp, boiled down 
with sugar like any other marmalade, makes an agreeable 
change. The plums being acid and the pears insipid, they 
combine very nicely. Apples and plums can be combined in 
the same way. Allow % lb sugar to each lb of fruit. — [Mrs. 
W. S. G.. Mo. 




PickIin^s=Soup and Sweet 

VERY housewife who can procure or has 
at her disposal the necessary ingredients, 
is, or should be, interested in pickling 
recipes, since pungent and spicy relishes are 
generally considered necessary adjuncts to 
a well equipped table. They can be made 
at home at small expense and with little trouble and 
expenditure of time. The bulk of pickling is done in the 
cooler months of fall, and if only therefor alone, the work 
is or would seem to be much less laborious than the can- 
ning and preserving, which must be done during the warm 
summer season, when most of the fruit ripens. When the 
directions call for air-tight sealing, the usual canning pre- 
cautions should be carefully observed. Good vinegar, sugar 
and spices are as necessary to success as good fruit and 
vegetables, for however fine the latter may be, if the former 
are of an inferior quality, the finished product will be most 
unsatisfactory. Among the following are a choice variety 
of pickling recipes, sour, sweet and spicy, which can be 
varied or modified to suit individual tastes. 

To Salt Down Cncnmbers For Pickles 

Have ready a perfectly clean jar, crock, or keg — whether 
the receptacle is glass, stone, or wood is immateria,!, as loug 
as it is clean and does not leak. Use only good, firm cucum- 
bers, not too large, and cut them from the vines with a pair 
of sharp scissors, leaving about % inch stem on each. Never 
pull them from the vines, and always handle them carefully 
so as not to bruise them. Wash clean and wipe dry. Put a 
2 or 3-inch layer of coarse salt in the bottom of the keg, then 
a layer of closely packed cucumbers, cover with salt, and pro- 
ceed in this way until all the cucumbers are used, topping off 
with a layer of salt, and over that a layer of freshly picked 
grape leaves. Use plenty salt — there is more danger in using 
too little than too much. Pour in cold, hard water to cover, 
put a clean white cloth over the top, tucking in the edges 
snugly down the sides, then put in an inverted plate, or a 
hard board to fit, and weigh it down with a large, clean stone. 



250 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

to keep the cucumbers ■well under brine. Cover the keg and 
set away in a cool place. Cucumbers may be added from time 
to time as they are gathered, with some more salt, until the 
crock is full. Be careful to keep the cucumbers always well 
under the brine, and if there should be too much brine, throw 
some of it away. When removing cloth, plate, and stone, do 
60 carefully, and if any scum has gathered, wash thoroughly 
before returning to the crock. When the pickles are wanted 
for table use, take out enough to last about one week, freshen 
them in clear, cold water baths, until they are plump and Just 
right to the taste, changing the water frequently and tasting 
a pickle occasionally to see if it is too salty. The pickles are 
then ready to be put in cold vinegar with any preferred spices, 
and in about 10 hours or less they will be ready for use. A 
small bunch of dill put in the vinegar impd,rts a delightful 
flavor. Cover the jar, and set in a cool place. — [A. G., Mass. 

To Salt Down String Beans 

Select firm, meaty, juicy and tender beans. Wash and drain, 
string and break or cut up in small pieces. If the beans are 
large and meaty, and cut up fine, on the bias, the result will 
be much more satisfactory. Pack the beans into a crock in 
alternate layers with salt, beginning and topping off with a 
layer of salt. Keep in a moderately warm place so the salt will 
dissolve and form a brine, which should cover the beans well. 
Beans and salt may be added from day to day until the Jar is 
full. Then cover inside with a clean cloth, plate or board and 
weight down with a clean stone. Be sure that the brine covers 
the beans. Cover the crock, tie over with cloth or paper, and 
set away in a cool place. — [E. R. G.. R. I. 

To Salt Down Whole Bipe Tomatoes 

Ripe and perfectly sound tomatoes may be kept for winter 
use by simply packing them carefully in large stone jars and 
pouring over them a very strong brine. Cover tight to keep 
out the air. When wanted for use, take out the required 
number of tomatoes and soak them 24 hours in cold water. 
They can then be peeled and sliced, and will taste as though 
they had just come from the vines. — [Mrs. E. L., Mass. 

Cucumber Pickles I 

To 1 gal good cider vinegar add 2 ozs ginger root, 1 oz tur- 
meric, 1 oz whole black pepper, 1 oz whole cloves, 1 oz chili 
peppers, 1 lb salt, and % lb powdered mustard. Mix the mus- 
tard and turmeric in a little of the cold vinegar, and boil all 
together about 15 or 20 minutes. When cold pour over cucum- 
bers that were washed, wiped dry and packed in a jar. — [K. 
A. D., N. D. 



CUCUMBER AND DILL PICKLES 251 

Cucnmber Pickles II 

To 1 gal best cider vinegar add 2 ozs ground mustard, 2 ozs 
whole mustard, 2 ozs whole black pepper, 2 ozs cinnamon bark 
broken In pieces, 1 oz ginger root, % lb salt, and a piece of 
alum about the size of a small hickory nut. This is enough 
to fill a 2-gal jar, packed with cjucumbers. If not enough 
cucumbers are at hand to fill the jar, some more may be 
added from time to time, but be sure that all the cucumbers 
are well covered with the vinegar. — [Miss L. M. B., N. Y. 

Cucnmber Pickles III 

To I gal good cider vinegar add 1 cup grated horseradish, 

1 cup salt, and 2 cups ground mustard. Dissolve the mustard 
in a little vinegar, and then add to the rest and pour all cold 
over the cucumbers packed in a jar. Be careful that every 
cucumber is well covered. — £L. E. W.. Mich. 

Cacumber Pickles IV 

Cut cucumbers from vines with sharp scissors, when about 

2 or 3 inches long, allowing about % inch stem to remain on 
each. For 1 pk cucumbers allow 1 cup coarse salt and make 
a brine sufficient to cover the cucumbers, and pour it over 
them boiling hot. Let stand for a day, drain oft, and repeat 
this twice, using new brine each time, and allowing 24 hours 
between each change. On the fourth day drain off the brine, 
pour over clear, boiling water, and let stand 24 hours; then 
drain and pack the cucumbers in jars, sprinkling among them 
some whole cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and any other spices 
liked, and to each gallon jar of pickles add a piece of alum 
the size of a small hazelnut. Pour over hot vinegar to cover 
and when cold, cover the top with horseradish leaves. The 
pickles must always be kept well under the vinegar. For 
sweet pickles melt 1 cup sugar in each q,t vinegar. — [Mrs. G., 
Wis. 

Dill Pickles 

Wash sound, medium sized pickles and put them to soak 
over night in a brine made of 1 cup salt to 2 gals water. Next 
morning wipe the cucumbers dry, put a layer in a jar, then a 
layer of freshly gathered grape leaves, another layer of 
cherry leaves and one of dill, then another layer of cucum- 
bers, and so on until the jar is full. Cover with a fresh brine 
prepared the same as directed above, cover with a cloth, 
weight down with a board and stone, so that the cucumbers 
will be well covered with the brine, cover the jar, and set away 
in a cool place. — [M. S. L., Wis. 



252 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Sweet Pickles 

Wipe clean 200 small, firm cucumbers and let them stand 
over night in salt water. In the morning drain, wipe dry, 
and drop them into 3 qts best cider vinegar, to which has 
been added 2 ozs each cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 3 lbs 
brown sugar and a few small red peppers. Boil about 5 
minutes, then turn into jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs. D. W. 
C, British Columbia. 

Sweet Cacmnber Pickles I 

Peel large, ripe, firm cucumbers, cut in quarters, scrape out 
the seeds, soak in weak brine over night, drain thoroughly, 
and scald In clear boiling water. Make a syrup of 1 qt vinegar, 
2 lbs sugar and any preferred spices. Add the cucumbers and 
cook until clear and tender. Can while hot and seal air tight. 
— [Mrs. J. P., N. Y. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles II 

These are put up cold and sealed air-tight. Peel and cut up 
the cucumbers and mix them with the following: 1 gal best 
cider vinegar, 1 scant cup salt, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup 
ground mustard, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1 scant tablesp 
alum, and 1 tablesp mixed spices. Be sure that the cucumbers 
are well under vinegar. — [Mrs. C. P. VanK., N. Y. 

Mixed Pickle I 

Cut into quarters, 5 qts green tomatoes, 1 doz green man- 
goes and % doz ripe mangoes, add 2 qts small cucumbers, 2 
qts large cucumbers, sliced, 1 doz small white onions and % 
doz large onions, sliced, 5 bunches celery, trimmed and cut 
in small pieces, 2 small heads cauliflower or cabbage, trimmed 
and chopped, and boil all together in salt water until tender, 
and then drain through a colander. Make a dressing of 2 qts 
vinegar, 1% cups sugar and add a paste made of 3 tablesp 
ground mustard, 2 tablesp turmeric, 3 tablesp flour and % 
teasp cayenne pepper. Let boil, then drop in the drained 
mixed vegetables, let boil up again until all are done, and then 
can and seal while hot, the same as fruit. — [M. L., Pa. 

Mixed Pickle n 

Take % pk green tomatoes, 2 large heads cabbage, 12 large 
cucumbers, 1 qt small onions, % pt grated horseradish, % lb 
white mustard seed, % oz celery seed, 4 tablesp pepper, 2 
tablesp turmeric, 1% lbs brown sugar and 3 qts cider vine- 
gar. Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with salt and let stand 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 253 

over night. Next morning drain off the salt water, add the 
other ingredients to the vegetables, mix well, place over 
the fire, bring to a boil, and let boil hard about 5 minutes. 
Can and seal while hot. — [A. T. H., O. 

Olive OU PIcIdes 

Peel and slice small cucumbers, discarding seeds, and let 
stand 3 hours in a strong brine, then rinse thoroughly in cold 
water and drain. Put a layer of cucumbers in a jar, sprinkle 
with celery salt, white mustard and black mustard seed, and 
whole black pepper, then a layer of cucumbers again, and so 
on until the jar is fulL Pour over % cup olive oil to a 1-gal 
jar. Cover with cold vinegaT and seal. These are nice served 
as pickles, or may be used with canned beans or mixed with 
salad dressing. — ^^[H. C. H., Mich. 

Gre^i Tomato Pickle 

ixreen tomatoes are the most used and the most abused 
for pickling. Many soak them all night in salt water, which 
toughens them, and as a consequence green tomato pickle 
Is not a favorite. Green tomato pickle as I prepare it may not 
look so fancy as some other pickles, but it tastes good, and 
that is the most important consideration. I put the tomatoes 
and other, ingredients all together, and cook until the tomatoes 
are tender, and seal while the mixture is boiling hot. In this 
way there is no tiresome soaking in brine, draining, reboil- 
ing, etc. One can put up a big lot in the morning and have 
it done ready to put away before dinner. In the first place, 
do not use undersized, very green tomatoes, but select those 
that are full grown and green, almost ready to ripen. 

Slice 1 gal green tomatoes without peeling, but cut out the 
hard stem ends. Core, peel and slice 6 good sized onions 
(white onions are best), add 1 pt best cider vinegar, 1 pt sugar 
(white or brown), 1 tablesp each salt, ground mustard, whole 
black pepper and white mustard seed, % tablesp whole all- 
spice, and 1 heaping teasp whole cloves. Mix well together and 
then stew until tender, stirring often to prevent burning. If 
one wishes a hot or extra peppery taste, add % teasp red pep- 
per, or one red pepper pod cut up In small pieces, with the 
seeds taken out. This pickle may be boiled until tender and 
each slice of tomato retain its shape. There will be plenty 
of rich juice without adding water, but if it should become 
too dry before boiled tender, add a very little hot water. Put 
up In glass jars and seal. The above given quantities will 
make about 4 or 5 qts of pickle. Set away in a cool, dark 
and dry place. This same recipe may be used for ripe toma- 
toes, or half ripe ones. — [I. C. T.. Ind. 



254 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Pickled Yellow Tomatoes 

Pour Into a jar 1 gal good cider vinegar salted to taste 
and then place in it a small cheese cloth bag containing %l 
teasp each of whole allspice and cinnamon, 1 teasp whole 
cloves and a small piece of ginger root. Set the jar in a cool 
place and from day to day drop in carefully selected small 
yellow tomatoes, first pricking each tomato with a fork, to 
keep them from bursting. When jar is full, cover with a 
stout piece of brown paper and over this tie a strong piece 
of muslin. No cooking is needed, but be careful that the 
tomatoes are well covered with the vinegar. — [P. R, H., no 
address. 

Pickled Onions I 

Select small white onions and peel but do not cut them. 
Place in wide mouthed bottles and sprinkle some spices among 
them, using 1 oz whole pepper, 1 tablesp mustard seed and a 
few coriander seeds to each qt onions. Cover with cold 
vinegar and cork. If the onions absorb the vinegar, add 
more to keep them covered. — [Mrs. E. S. D., Wash. 

Pickled Onions n 

Peel small, white onions, put them over the fire in boiling 
water, and when they look clear skim them out and put them 
on a clean folded cloth. When quite dry, put them into a jar 
and cover them with hot spiced vinegar. If liked a little 
sweet, sugar may be added to the spiced vinegar according to 
taste. The onions must be well covered with vinegar at all 
times. — [Mrs. M. B., O. 

Pickled String Beans 

Select tender, meaty string beans and boil them in salted 
water until done, then drain and drop them in a pickle made 
of 1' qt vinegar, % cup sugar and 2 tablesp mixed spices boiled 
together. Let boil up once more after the cooked beans have 
been added, and then seal in fruit jars while hot. — [Mrs. A. 
J. P., Wis. 

Beet Pickles 

Select tender beets of uniform size, wash them clean, but 
do not cut off the root ends, and allow an inch or two of the 
stem ends to remain on. Cover with boiling water and boil 
untU tender, then remove from the hot water, plunge Into cold 
water, and then with the hands rub the skins and the root 
and stem ends off. Cut out all specks or tough parts, and slic« 



CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER PICKLE 2551 

I 

or cut Into dice, and pack into glass jars. Fill overflowing 
full with boiling hot vinegar, and seal. If a sweet pickle is 
desired, boil some sugar and spices with the vinegar. — [Mrs. 
B. G., N. Y. 

Cabbage and Beet Pickle 

Chop fine 2 t[ts beets after they are boiled and cold. Chop 
fine 2 qts raw red cabbage and add to the beets and cabbage, 2 
cups brown sugar, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1 tablesp salt and 
cider vinegar enough to cover. Put up in air-tight glass jars. The 
beets and cabbage should be measured after being chopped, and 
all the ingredients should be well mixed together before pack- 
ing Into jars. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 

Pickled Red Cabbage 

Select a nice firm, crisp red cabbage, discard the outer 
leaves, and cut out the stem ends and tough core. Shred the 
cabbage fine and then pack into a gal jar in layers, sprinkling 
each layer with a little salt and white mustard seed. When the 
jar Is full, pour over it % cup vinegar and % cup brown sugar, 
heated together. Have the jar overflowing full and seal while 
hot. A small red pepper may be added and a little horseradish 
root If desired. — [Mrs. A. J. P., Wis. 

Pickled White Cabbage 

Chop fine 4 large, crisp heads of cabbage and 1 gt onions. 
Pack In alternate layers in a jar, sprinkling a little salt between 
each, and let stand over night then drain. Mix well together 2 
qts cider vinegar, 2 lbs brown sugar, 2 tablesp each ground 
mustard, black pepper, cinnamon and celery seed and 1 tablesp 
each allspice, mace and alum. Let boil up once and pour over 
the cabbage and onions. Let stand over night, drain, heat tho 
liquid and pour over the cabbage again. Repeat this process 
for the third time and the fourth morning put all together in 
a large porcelain kettle, bring to a boil, and boil 5 minutes. 
When cold, pack in small jars and seal. — [M. P., N. H. 

Cauliflower Pickle 

Trim and cut up cauliflower, boil in slightly salted water tni 
tender, and for every head of cauliflower allow 2 heaping 
tablesp ground mustard, 1 tablesp flour, 1 teasp salt, Vz cup 
brown sugar, and a little turmeric with cider vinegar enough 
to cover. Let this mixture come to a boil, then pour over the 
cauliflower In cans or jars, and seal while hot. — [Mrs. G. W. 
A., Pa. 



256 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Pickled Peppers 

Take the hot and sweet peppers and put them in layers la 
a jar, first one of salt, then one of peppers, until the jar is full 
and packed tight, with a layer of salt on top. Tie a cloth over 
the jar and set away for winter use. When wanted, take out 
the required number of peppers and put them in vinegar over 
night.^ — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Stuffed Pickled Peppers 

Take large green peppers, remove the stem ends and seed* 
and fill with the following mixture: To 2 qts chopped cabbage, 
add V2 cup mustard seed, 2 tablesp celery seed and 2 tablesp 
each salt and brown sugar. Chopped cucumbers or small white 
onions may be added, if liked. Cover each pepper with the 
stem end and tie it on securely. Then put the stuffed peppers 
in a jar, cover with cold vinegar, and seal Keep in a cool and 
dark place. — [Mrs. B. E., Nev. 

Stuffed Pickled Peppers 11 

Take large green peppers, cut off the ends, take out the seeds 
and let them soak in salted water over night. Then stuff them 
with a chopped mixture of cabbage, cucumbers, green tomatoes 
and onions in equal parts. Put this mixture in a bowl or jar 
and add salt, allowing 1 cup salt for a gal of the mixture, and 
let stand over night, after which squeeze out of the brine, put 
in a preserving kettle over the fire, cover with vinegar, and add 
mustard seed and celery seed to taste. Boil about 15 minutes 
and then stuff the mixture into the peppers, sew on the tops, 
pack in jars, cover with vinegar, and put in some whole spicea 
and bay leaves. — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Mustard Pickle 

Peel, cut lengthwise and discard seeds of 2 qts ripe, firm 
cucumbers, add Vz doz green peppers, 2 qts green tomatoes 
and 2 heads cauliflower, cut up, 2 qts small cucumbers and 2 
qts small white onions, peeled. Cover with a weak brine and 
let stand 24 hours, then drain. Prepare dressing as follows: 
Mix to a smooth paste 12 tablesp mustard, 2 tablesp turmeric 
and 2 cups flour, with a little cold- vinegar, then add 3 cups 
sugar, 4 qts vinegar, and boil all together. Drop the prepared 
pickles in this dressing, let heat thoroughly, and put away in 
pickle bottles. — [Mrs. J. L. S., Ct.. 

Com Pickle or Belish 

To 12 cups cut sweet com, add 12 cups chopped cabbage, 1 
cup chopped celery and 1 cup chopped onions. Boil all 









'». 




i 


•a 




*''^wl^^^tUmS&M 


ll^ 




1 


1 


1 




^^H 


Bin 


^i^p 


1 


1 


f 


u 


"^ v^^H^^^HprI 


"1 




K 


1 


^ 



■FILLER" CURRANTS GROWN IN NEW YORK. 




PRIZE PEACHES FROM MICHIGAN 




PRIZE WINNING APPLES FROM PENNSYLVANIA. 




KEIPFER PEARS GROWN IN MISSOURI. 



OLIVES AND CHOW-CHOW 257 



together in slightly salted water until tender and then drain, 
after which mix with a dressing prepared as follows: To 1 cup 
sugar add 1 tablesp each mustard, salt and turmeric, and 2 
heaping tablesp flour. Mix to a paste with a little cold vinegar, 
then add the balance of 2 qts vinegar. Two peppers sliced in 
rings can also be added if liked. Boil this dressing until it 
thickens and the flour is done. Mix the vegetables with it and 
can while hot. — [Mrs. M. Z. P., Wash. 

Pickled Olives 

To 6 gals green olives allow 1 lb each of concentrated lye 
and salt, dissolve in 6 gals water, and soak the olives in this 
solution for 2 days, then drain and replace with a fresh solu- 
tion made the same as before, and soak for 2 days more, after 
which drain the olives and Immerse them in pure water from 5 
to 8 days, according to the bitterness of the olives, changing the 
water every day. Finally put them in a brine made by dissolv- 
ing 3 lbs salt in 4 % gals water. They will keep this way for 
one season in a keg, but if wanted for long storage, they should 
be bottled and sealed. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Old Virgiiiia Chow-Chow 

Chop fine 8 qts green tomatoes, 3 small heads cabbage, 6' 
large onions, 6 ripe peppers and 6 green peppers, sprinkle with 
salt, and let stand 24 hours, then drain thoroughly and add 3 
qts good cider vinegar and 1% lbs brown sugar. Boil all 
together 1 hour, then add 8 qts ripe tomatoes, 3 heads finely 
chopped celery and 1 pt horseradish and boil 15 minutes 
longer, after which add 1 tablesp each cloves and mustard, 2 
tablesp each white mustard seed, allspice and ginger. Use the 
ground spices, mix all together thoroughly, and when done put 
up In jars and seal. — [Mrs. F. E. T., Cal. 

India Belish 

Trim and cut fine 2 heads cauliflower, 2 heads cabbage, 12 
onions, 12 large green cucumbers and 6 green peppers. Meas- 
ure and for each pt chopi>ed vegetables, add 1 pt chopped 
green tomatoes. Mix well, put in a large stone jar, cover with, 
a weak brine, and let stand over night. Next morning drain 
thoroughly, put in a granite vessel, cover with good cider vine- 
gar, and add 1 lb brown sugar, % cup white mustard seed, and 
about a handful of mixed spices tied up in a small cheese cloth 
bag. Boil about 3 hours, then turn into glass jars and seal 
while hot. — [Mrs. M. A. C, Wash. 



£58 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Pickled Berries 

Put 6 qts strawberries or any other berries into a stone Jar 
(n layers, sprinkling each layer with cinnamon and cloves. 
When the jar is full, pour over the berries a syrup made by 
'boiling together 1 pt vinegar and 3 pts sugar. Let stand 24 
iiours, pour off the syrup, boil again and pour over the berries. 
Let stand over night and then boll the berries and syrup 
together slowly for 20 minutes, pour into jars and seal. — [L. 
E. B., lad. 

Sweet Plain Pickles 

Wipe 7 lbs firm, ripe plums, pack them into a jar and pour 
over them a syrup made by boiling together 1 qt cider vinegar, 
4 lbs sugar and 2 tablesp cinnamon and 1 tablesp cloves tied 
In a cheese cloth bag. Let stand 1 day, then pour off the syrup, 
let boil up again, and again pour over the plums. Repeat this 
the next day, and the third day boll up the plums and syrup 
together and can and seal while hot. — [S. A. B., N. T. 

Sweet Pickled Pears 

Select firm fruit of uniform size, not too ripe, and remove 
blossom ends with sharp pointed knife. For i lbs fruit allow 
1 pt best cider vinegar, 2 lbs brown sugar and % cup whole 
-spices mixed — whole cloves, allspice and stick cinnamon, tied 
tn a cheese cloth bag. Boil the spices with the vinegar and 
sugar about 10 minutes, skim, add the fruit, and cook until 
tender. Skim out the pears, put in jars, boil down the syrup, 
pour over the fruit in jars, and seal. This syrup is fine to add, 
to mincemeat pies In winter. — [Mrs. F. H., Ore. 

Sweet Quince Pickles 

Use only ripe, sound fruit. Pare, core and cut in quarters 
or eighths. Simmer the parings and cores 1 hour in just 
enough water to cover, then drain and after weighing the 
quinces, cook until tender in this water, then drain again, sav- 
ing the juice. For every 7 lbs fruit allow i lbs sugar, 1 pt 
cider vinegar, and 1 cup juice in which the fruit was boiled. 
Boil all together about 15 minutes with 2 tablesp cinnamon 
and 1 tablesp mace tied in a cheese cloth bag, then add the 
fruit and simmer slowly % hour. Skim out the fruit, put in 
jars, boil down the juice, pour over the fruit, and seal while 
hot. — [Mrs. M. K., Kan. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Boil 2 lbs brown sugar, 1 pt best cider vinegar and 1 oz stick 
sinnamon 20 minutes. Have ready % pk peaches, dip quickly; 



PICKLED CHERRIES AND APPLES 259 



in hot water and rub off the fuzz with a clean towel, stick into 
each peach 2 whole cloves and drop them into the hot syrup to 
cook until tender. Do not crowd too many peaches in the syrup 
at one time. When the peaches are tender, put them la glass 
jars and cover with the boiling hot syrup and seal at once. — : 
[Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Pickled Gherries 

Fill a jar compactly with good, ripe cherries with the stems 
on, but be careful not to crush the cherries. Pour over them a 
syrup made by boiling together 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup sugar. 
Seal air-tight. These are delicious served with roast meats.— 
[No name. 

Sweet Pickled Apples 

These are preferred by many to pickled pears and this recipe 
will prove doubly welcome when all the fruit cans for air-tight 
sealing are used up, as the sweet apple pickle will keep very 
well in covered jars. Peel, but leave whole 1 pk sweet apples, 
make a syrup of 2 qts vinegar, 4 lbs brown sugar (more if 
desired very sweet), % oz whole cloves and allspice or cinna-' 
mon, 1 teasp mustard seed and a little salt. Heat the vinegar 
and sugar together and when it boils, skim well, then put In 
the spices tied in a cheese cloth bag, let boil up again and then 
add the apples and boil slowly until tender. When done, lift 
out the apples carefully, put them in a jar, boil down the syrup 
to the desired consistency and sweetness, pour over the apples 
and when cold, cover securely and set away in a cool place. — 
[Mrs. E. G. F., N. Y. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles 

Slice 20 lbs green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and let stand 
24 hours, then drain and boil in water enough to cover, adding 
3 tablesp ground ginger. When the tomatoes are tender, drain 
and put in stone jars and pour over them 2 qts of boiling hot 
vinegar which has been seasoned with 1 % tablesp ground cin- 
namon, % tablesp ground cloves, 3 tablesp ground ginger, 2 
small red peppers and 4 lbs sugar. Tie the spices in a small 
cheese cloth bag. When the jar is full, lay this spice bag on. 
top of the pickle. — [Mrs. C. W. H., Pa. 

Oarrot Sweet Pickles 

These are equal to spiced crabapples. Wash and scrape sev- 
eral good sized carrots and boil In slightly salted water until 
tender. Make a syrup of vinegar, sugar and spices, same as for 



260 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

any other sweet pickle, or use 1 pt vinegar, 2 pts sugar and 1 
teasp eacli of cloves and cinnamon. When the syrup is boiling 
slice in all the carrots the syrup will cover, let simmer for a 
while, and then put away in jars. The syrup can be made as 
rich as desired, and more spices may be added if liked. If 
not very sweet and spicy, they should be put up in sealed jars. 
H-[Mrs. R. M. S., Wis. 

Sauerkraut 

Cabbage in the form of kraut, if properly made and cared 
for, is nutritious and makes a desirable dish, being convenient 
and very little trouble to prepare. I have been using the follow- 
ing recipe for years and have never lost a pound or had any 
trouble with mouldy cloths on top of kraut. For large quanti- 
ties I use clean oak barrels, for a few gallons I prefer stone' 
jars. For packing in barrels, I place the barrel near the wall 
of a building or a heavy post, make a follower that will just fit 
inside of the barrel and press down by means of a lever, one end 
in a crack of the building or under a block nailed to a post.; 
Pack in solid, but do not pound or stamp, as this breaks and, 
mashes the fiber of the leaves and causes them to become dark.j 
The way I want kraut to look when taken from the barrel is 
long, stringy and of a snowy whiteness, and to have a sour, not 
a soured taste and smell. 

Early morning, when the dew is on, is the best time to 
gather cabbage for kraut. The weather should be warm enough 
to cause fermentation to take place in 2 or 3 days from time of 
packing. After fermentation has ceased, keep in a shady cool 
place. Remove all outside leaves and the heart or stalk of the 
cabbage. Use a two or three-knife kraut cutter, place over a 
tub, and shred the required amount to fill barrel or jars. Use 
.1 tablesp salt to each gal of kraut, and no more, for if more salt 
is used fermentation will not be so perfect — the salt will pre- 
serve, instead of allowing the cabbage to ferment. Sprinkle 
salt over the cut cabbage and thoroughly mix by working over 
with the hands or a large wooden spoon or paddle. Do not use 
any metal spoons or kettles. Vfter mixing, press in the barrels 
or jars very solid. If in barrels replace the head and bore in 
it an inch auger hole, set level, and pour in cold water until it 
will take no more. Keep the head of barrel covered with water 
by adding more every day, or as needed. After fermentation 
has ceased, stop up tight and keep head of barrel covered with, 
water, to exclude the air. If put up in jars, keep a weight on to 
hold kraut under brine, and keep it running over with water, 
to cause all skum to work off. — [J. W. G., Ky. 



MAKING SAUERKRAUT 261 



Sauerkraut Xotes 

Use a water-tigtit hard ■wooden keg or barrel and be sure it 
is thorouglily clean., Put a layer of clean outside cabbage 
leaves in the bottom of the teg and a little way up on the sides. 
Put in a layer of shredded cabbage, sprinkle with salt and a lit- 
tle caraway seed and onion and apple, and press down very 
firmly. For a medium sized wash tub of shredded cabbage use 
about 3 or 4 handsful salt, 2 tablesp caraway seed, 1 onion and 
1 apple, chopped very fine. Proceed in alternate layers until 
all the cabbage is used, pressing down each layer firmly, so that 
it will be under brine. It is well for two persons to handle the 
job together, one doing the cutting and the other the packing. 
The brine should rise quite freely when the kraut is pressed 
down with the hands. Cover with a clean white cloth, tucking 
in the edges firmly down the sides, then lay on fitted hardwood 
boards and on these a clean stone or several stones to weight the 
kraut down so that it will stay under brine. Let stand 3 or 3 
days, then dip ofE all you can of the old brine, which would 
become bitter, and fill up with hot water. Tie a clean cloth over 
the barrel and let the contents work. It will take from 2 to 3 
weeks before fermentation ceases. About once a week, there- 
after, carefully remove stones, boards and cloth, which will very 
likely be covered with skum, wash them clean, rinse in cold 
salt water, and return to the keg. A little hot water may be 
added from time to time, and a little salt, if it does not seem 
salt enough. The kraut should be just covered with brine, but 
it is not well to have too much brine, as that softens it and 
makes it mushy. The secret of keeping kraut well and clean 
is in pressing down firmly, having it well weighted, and covered 
with not too much brine, thus keeping the air out. A good 
vinegar barrel is nice to use, and if it is too large, it can be 
sawed down to the required size. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

To Keep Sauerkraut in Warm Weather 

When the warm spring days approach, the last of the sauer- 
kraut is in danger of spoiling. I pack the raw kraut in 2-qt 
glass fruit jars, cover with the brine, screw the tops on air- 
tight, and set the jars away in a cool place. I have kept sauer- 
kraut this way until the last of May, and the last can was as 
nice and fresh as the first. — ^Mrs. N. S., Mich. 



Never use tin, copper or brass vessels for pickling, as the vin- 
egar or acids eat into the metal and produce an unwholesome 
result. The pickles can be colored nice and green by adding 
freshly gathered nasturtium leaves, horseradish leaves, grape 
or cherry leaves. But do not boll these with the pickle — just 
put a few of them in the top of the jar. — [A. G., Mass. 



262 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

When pickling, do not use metal utensils, as the acid eats 
Into them and produces a poison. Use agate or porcelain lined 
vessels and wooden spoons. — [A. G., Mass. 

I This is a good rule for sweet fruit pickle: For 7 lbs fruit 
allow 1 qt vinegar, 3 % lbs brown or maple sugar, and 1 teasp 
each cinnamon, cloves, mace and allspice. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. T. 

This is an easy way to peel peaches; Put them In a wire 
basket, dip in hot water a few moments, and then rub ofC the 
skins. By this method none of the fruit is wasted. — [M. E. F., 
Mo. 

After cutting up peppers for pickles or chow-chow, rub the 
hands well with wet salt before washing them, which will 
greatly lessen the smart that usually follows the handling of 
peppers. — [S. W. 

Fruit preserved in a sour or thick syrup, heavily spiced, does 
not need to be canned In air-tight jars. The jars that are not 
quite good enough for the regular canning can be used for 
pickled fruits. — [A. G., Mass. 

We use the following proportions for sauerkraut: To a 6-gal 
crock, use 1 cup salt and % cup sugar. As soon as fermenta- 
tion ceases, put the crock in a cool place. We think stone 
crocks are better than tubs or barrels. — [Mrs. J. C. C, R. I. 

When I take pickles out of the brine to freshen them for 
table use, I pour boiling water on them and let them stand in 
this water until cold. Then I freshen them in cold water. 
This treatment produces a nice, crisp pickle. — [Mrs. B. W., Mo. 

To make a strong brine for pickles, put in as much salt, as 
the water will dissolve — ^better use too much salt than too little. 
A strong brine should float an egg. When salting cucumbers, 
some add water and some do not, claiming that the cucumbers 
and salt will make their own brine. I always add a little water, 
which seems to prevent the cucumbers from shriveling up. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Delightful flavors are imparted to cucumbers by adding any 
of the following: dill, celery seed, bay leaves, radish or nastur- 
tium seeds. Only the best, pure cider vinegar should be used 
in pickling — ^the artificial or chemical vinegar will make the 
cucumbers soft and has a very disagreeable taste. Green horse- 
radish root, grated or cut up in slices, will help to keep pickles 
and imparts a good flavor. — [A. G.. Mass. 




Gatsups and Relishes 

AUCES and spiced relishes, in one shape 
or another, are to be found on almost every 
well equipped table, and while a too liberal 
indulgence in them is properly considered 
unwholesome, yet they fill a gastronomical 
want which is universal and therefore not 
to be overlooked. As almost all the ingredients except 
some of the spices and sugar are grown on the average 
■home farm, catsups and sauces can be prepared at comr 
paratively small expense by country housekeepers, while 
town and city dwellers must pay high prices for the raw 
material of an inferior quality, or buy the ready-made 
bottled relishes of whose purity they cannot be assured. Irt. 
preparing homemade catsups and relishes it is imperative 
that the following rules be observed: Have the bottles 
thoroughly clean and drained dry. Be sure the corks are 
sound and clean, and allow them to soak a little while in 
hot water before using. See to it that the corks are large' 
enough, and press them into the bottles as far as they 
will go. Then trim off the tops evenly with a sharp knife, 
and dip the top of each bottle to the depth of about one inch 
or more in a melted sealing mixture made of beeswax and' 
rosin, in the proportion of one part rosin to two parts bees- 
wax, or dip the bottles into melted sealing wax the same 
as that used for sealing letters. Prepared paraffine or seal- 
ing wax cakes, ready for melting, can be bought in the 
stores, 

Bipe Tomato Catsup 

Wash and cut out the stem end of 1 pk good, ripe tomatoes. 
Cut up and boil until very soft, then rub through a colander 
first, and a fine sieve afterward. This will remove all the- 
peel and seeds. Pour the strained tomato juice in an agate^ 
or porcelain lined kettle, put over the fire and add the follow- 
ing: 2 tablesp salt, 1 tablesp each ground black pepper, 
ground cloves and celery seed, 1 teasp cayenne pepper andi 

263 



264 TARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

3 tablesp ground mustard. Put the celery seed in a cheese- 
cloth bag, and let the catsup boil about 6 hours, stirring 
occasionally until the last hour, then almost constantly to 
prevent burning. Pour into a stone jar, and let stand until 
perfectly cold, then add 1 pt good vinegar and remove the 
celery seed bag. Bottle, cork and seal. Keep in a cool, dark 
and dry place. — [Mrs. D. W. C, British Columbia. 



Green Tomato Catsup 

Chop fine % bu green tomatoes and 2 large heads white 
cabbage, 2 doz onions, and 6 red peppers. To this add 2 good- 
sized pieces horseradish root, grated, and 1 cup salt. Mix 
•thoroughly, put in a cheesecloth bag, hang up and let drip 
all night. Nezt morning turn the drained mixture into an 
agate or porcelain lined kettle, add enough good vinegar to 
cover, 2 cups sugar, 4 tablesp whole white mustard seed, and 
1 tablesp each celery seed, ground cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice. Put the spices in a cheesecloth bag and stir it through 
the mixture while cooking. Let this catsup boil about 15 min- 
utes, then turn it into stone jars, let cool, and put on a 
weighted cover, so that the juice will come well over the 
solid ingredients. In about one week this catsup will be 
ready to use. Keep in a cool, dark, dry place. — [Mrs. M. M. 
B., Mo. 



Cold Tomato Catsup 

To 1 pk ripe, peeled tomatoes, chopped fine and drained 
well, add 1 pt grated horseradish, 6 large, peeled onions and 
6 large stalks celery, both chopped fine, 1 tablesp each celery 
seed and white mustard seed, 6 mango peppers and 2 hot 
peppers, all chopped fine, 1 small cup salt, 2 cups brown sugar 
and good cider vinegar enough to cover. A little cloves and 
cinnamon may be added if liked. This catsup requires no 
cooking and will keep fine for a year, if set away in a cool 
place. It will keep for a longer time if sealed in glass jars 
and kept in a cool place. — [Mrs. J. S., Neb. 

CoM Cucumber Catsup 

To 12 good-sized, ripe cucumbers, peeled, seeds removed and 
chopped fine, add 4 peeled onions, chopped fine, 4 tablesp 
salt, 3 tablesp black pepper, 3 tablesp grated horseradish and 
1 qt best cider vinegar. Bottle, pour 1 teasp olive oil in top 
of each bottle, cork tightly, seal, and keep in a cool place. — ■ 
[Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 



PEACH AND PLUM CATSUPS 265 

Quick Catsup from Canned Tomatoes 

Rub 2 qts canned tomatoes through a sieve, then add 1 
teasp each salt, cloves and allspice, % teasp each red pepper 
and black pepper, 1 tablesp each sugar and flour, and 1 cup 
vinegar. Boil until it thickens. Put up in bottles or jars and 
set away in a cool place. Sealing will hardly be necessary, 
as the quantity given is so email that the catsup will very 
likely be consumed before it would have a chance to spoil. — > 
[A. L .D., Ida. 

Farmer's Catsup 

Caiop fine 1 pk each green and ripe tomatoes, 1 large onion, 
and 4 heads cabbage. Sprinkle with 1 cup salt, mix thoroughly 
and let drain over night. The next morning add 1 gal good 
cider vinegar, and boil for 2 hours; then add 1 doz sweet 
peppers, 1 tablesp each celery seed, black pepper, ginger and 
mustard, and 1 teasp each cloves, allspice and cinnamon, % 
a nutmeg grated, 1 cup grated horseradish and 2 lbs brown 
sugar. Boil for another 10 or 15 minutes, and then can or 
bottle and seal. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Tomato and Peach Catsup 

Chop fine % bu ripe tomatoes, 2 q.ts peaches, 12 onions and 
3 ripe, red peppers. Boil till soft, then strain and boil again 
until thick and n'^ free water seems to be left in the mixturei, 
After that add 1 qt vinegar, 2 lbs sugar, ,% cup salt, 1 tablesp 
mixed spices — cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace. Let this 
boil up thoroughly and then bottle, cork and seal. This recipe 
is well worth trying. — [Mrs. W. D. T., N. H. 

Peach Catsup 

When you are preparing peaches for canning or preserving, 
place the peelings and the inferior peaches in an earthen kettle, 
and boil in a very little water and a little salt. Press first 
through a colander and then through a fine wire sieve, and 
proceed with the pulp as you would with tomato catsup. This 
is very nice. — [E. E. W., Ore. 

Plum Catsup 

To 4 qts Damson plums, stewed and rubbed through a sieve, 
add 2 lbs brown sugar, 1 cup vinegar and 1 teasp ground cloves 
and cinnamon. A little pepper, allspice and salt may also be 
added, if liked. Cook slowly until thick, stirring often. 
Prunes may be substituted for the fresh plums and will make 
a very acceptable catsup. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 



266 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Apple Catsup 

Pare, core and quarter apples and stew in a very little water 
nntil tender. Rub through a sieve and to each qt pulp 
add 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp each salt, pepper, cloves, ground 
mustard, 2 teasp cinnamon, 2 onions, chopped fine, and 1 pt 
vinegar. Boil one hour, bottle, cork and seal while hot. — 
[Mrs. H. A. B., Mont. 

Crabapple Catsup 

Stem and wash crabapples, stew until tender, using no 
more water than necessary, then rub through a sieve and to 
each gal pulp add 1 qt vinegar, 1 tablesp each salt and black 
pepper, 2 teasp mustard, 1 teasp each allspice and cloves and 
pinch red pepper. Boil gently 1 hour, bottle, cork and 
seal while hot. — [Mrs. C. C. W., Mich. 

Cherry Catsup 

To 2 qts chopped, stoned cherries, add 2 cups each sugar 
and vinegar, % teasp ground cloves and 1 tablesp ground 
cinnamon. Boil 15 minutes, set the kettle away until the 
next day, then boil 15 minutes longer and can while hot, or 
bottle, cork and seal. — [C. T. D., Mo. 

Currant Catsup 

Stem 2 qts ripe, red currants, and boil about 10 minutes with 
% pt water. Strain through colander and add % pt best 
vinegar, 1 lb brown sugar, and 1 tablesp each mace, ground 
cloves and cinnamon. Bottle, cork and seal while hot. — 
[Mrs. J. A. W.. Mo. 

Green Grape Catsup 

Stem green grapes, wash and cook until soft, with just 
enough water to keep from burning, then strain out thp 
skins and seeds through a colander. Weigh the strained 
pulp and allow 2 cups brown sugar to 2% lbs pulp, 1 cup 
vinegar and 2 level teasp each salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon 
and allspice. Cook slowly until it begins to thicken, then 
bottle and seal. The spices can be put in a cheesecloth bag, 
if one is particular about the color of the catsup. — [Mrs.. 
E. R. R., Me. 

Ripe Grape Catsup 

Stew 5 lbs grapes, stemmed and washed, until they are soft 
enough to rub through a colander, leaving out skins and seeds. 
To the strained pulp add 1 pt vinegar, 2 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp 
each pepper, allspice, cloves and cinnamon, and % teasp salt. 
Boil until thick, then bottle and seal. — [E, T., N. Y. 



COOKED AND UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE 267 

Gooseberry Catsup 

To 12 lbs gooseberries add 6 lbs sugar, 1 qt vinegar, 2 tablesp 
each cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 1 tablesp black pepper, and 
% teasp salt. Boil about one hour, or until thick. Bottle, 
cork and seal while hot. This makes about 1 gal catsup. — 
[Mrs. H. J. H., Col. 

Walnut Catsup 

The walnuts should be gathered while tender, when they 
can be easily pierced with a darning needle. White walnuts 
or butternuts are the best. Wash and wipe dry 100 tender, 
green walnuts, pierce them all over with a fork, place them 
in a large jar with 2 qts vinegar and 1 cup salt, and let 
them stand 5 days, mashing and stirring them well every 
other day; then drain, squeeze out the juice and put the 
nuts in a porcelain kettle with % pt fresh vinegar, % doz 
whole pepper corn, 1 tablesp cloves, 1 blade mace, 1 grated 
nutmeg, 1 little head garlic, 1 horseradish root, sliced, and 
1 pod red pepper. Let come slowly to a boil, and boil for 
20 minutes. Strain, cool, bottle and seal. — [E. B. W., Ore. 

Cooked Chili Sauce 

Peel and cut 1 pk sound, ripe tomatoes and cook 1 hour, 
then add 1 qt onions, 3 green peppers and 3 bunches celery, 
all chopped fine, % cup salt, 1 teasp each mustard, black 
pepper and cloves, 1 tablesp cinnamon, 1 lb brown sugar 
and 1 qt vinegar. Boil 1 hour, bottle while hot and cork 
and seal. Chopped apples and grated horseradish can be 
added to the above recipe, and also a little nutmeg, ginger, 
mace or cassia, if liked. Do not strain this sauce. — [G. L. 
N., N. T. 

Uncooked Chili Sauce 

Peel and chop fine Vz pk good, ripe, solid tomatoes, 2 
cups celery, 2 cups onions and 2 small red peppers. Mix well 
and add % cup each salt, sugar and white mustard seed, 1 
tablesp each black pepper and ground cinnamon, and 1 qt 
good cider vinegar. This need not be cooked. Mix all ingre- 
dients well together, put in a stone crock, weight down with 
a small saucer, cover well with a cloth and paper and keep 
in a cool, dry, dark place. — [Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 

Red Chili Sauce 

Boil 1 doz ripe chili peppers in water enough to cover. 
When thoroughly soft, press through a fine sieve, thus remov- 
ing seeds and skins, and bottle the pulp. This may be 
used as a sauce or as a seasoning in cooking rice, beans, or 
meat. — [Mrs. L. J.. Cal. 



268 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Xew England Chili Sauce 

Chop fine 1 pk green tomatoes, 1 small head cabbage, 12 
large, tart apples, 6 medium-sized onions and 4 large, green 
peppers. Mix thoroughly and add 1 tablesp each ground 
mustard, cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 2 lbs brown sugar, 2 
qts vinegar and % cup salt. Boil 2 hours and put away in 
crocks, well covered. Keep in a dark, cool and dry place. — 
[Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 



Bordeanx Sauce 

To 2 qts chopped green tomatoes add 1 qt chopped cabbage, 
8 small onions, peeled and chopped fine, 1 Vz teasp each turmeric 
and white mustard seed, 1 tablesp cold allspice, 2 tablesp celery 
seed, 2 cups sugar, 4 tablesp salt, and 1 qt good cider vinegar. 
Boil % hour and seal while hot in glass jars or bottles. — 
[Mrs. W. W. B., N. Y. 

Celery Sauce 

Chop fine 2 qts cabbage, 2 qts celery and 4 qts green toma- 
toes; drain off all the water and juice, and add to the chopped 
mixture Vz lb ground yellow mustard, % lb sugar, 1 oz 
turmeric, Vz cup salt, 1 teasp each black pepper, ground cloves, 
cinnamon and celery seed and enough good vinegar to cover. 
Boil ,% hour and put up in air-tight jars. — [S. F. R., N. J. 

Chutney Sauce 

Chop fine 12 sour apples, peeled and cored, 2 peppers, 6 
tomatoes, 4 onions and 1 cup seeded raisins, then add 1 qt 
good cider vinegar, 2 tablesp each salt and white mustard, 2 
cups brown sugar, and a little cayenne pepper. Cook until 
soft. Bottle, cork and seal. — [Mrs. D. M. W., Mass. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To 1 qt grated horseradish add 1 qt cold v'negar, 2 teasp 
each salt and sugar, and 1 teasp white, ground pepper. Seal 
in wide-mouthed bottles or small glass jars. — [Miss I. J. K., 
Minn. 

Pickled Com Sauce 

Chop fine 1 large cabbage and 6 large peppers, sprinkle with 
salt and let stand a while to draw off the juices. Then drain 
thoroughly, and add 3 pts boiled corn, cut from the cobs, and 
3 tablesp each celery seed and white mustard seed. In another 



TOMATO SOY AND SAUCE 269 

vessel bring to a boil 3 pts vinegar and 1 cup sugar, and add 
to this syrup a smooth paste made with a little vinegar and 
2 tablesp each cornstarch and ground mustard and 1 tablesp 
turmeric. Boil until the cornstarch is done, add the chopped 
cabbage, peppers, corn and spice mixture, and can while hot. 
It should be put up in air-tight cans. — [Mrs. I. C, N. J. 



Pickled Fnmpkin Sauce 

Peel a firm, yellow pumpkin, remove the seeds, and cut 
in small dice-shaped pieces. Steam until quite tender, but 
not soft or mushy. Place in an agate vessel or earthen crock 
and cover with vinegar, then turn off the vinegar and sweeten 
it with 1 lb sugar. Add 2 ozs whole cloves, 2 ozs stick cin- 
namon and boil the vinegar, sugar and spices together. 
Turn this syrup while boiling hot over the steamed pumpkin, 
and let stand a week. Then drain off the juice, boil it again, 
pour over the pumpkin again, and let stand another week. 
Repeat this process a third time, after which the juice should 
be rich and delicious, but if it does not seem to be quite 
sweet enough add more sugar and boil down quite thick. 
Put away in a stone crock and weight down with a small 
saucer or plate that will fit inside the crock, so as to keep 
the pumpkin under the juice. Then cover the crock with a 
piece of thick paper. Can also be bottled and sealed like 
sauce, but I never lost any of mine when put away in stone 
crocks, as described. Keep in a dark, cool, dry place. — • 
[J. TJ., Mich. 



Worcestershire Sauce 

Slice without peeling % bu ripe tomatoes and 10 lemons 
(remove stem ends from the tomatoes and seeds from the 
lemons), cover with 1 qt good cider vinegar, add % lb salt, 
1 lb brown sugar, % lb ground allspice, 1 oz ground cloves, and 
boil gently 2 hours, after which strain through a fine sieve and 
add the juice of 1 lemon. Bottle, cork and seal while hot. — 
[Mrs. J. P. D.. Neb. 



Green Tomato Soy 

Slice 2 gals green tomatoes without peeling, and 12 large, 
peeled onions, add 1 qt sugar, 2 tablesp each dry mustard, salt 
and black pepper, 1 tablesp each allspice and cloves and 2 qts 
good cider vmegar. Cook slowly 3 hours and put up in cans or 
botOes and seal. — [Miss L. M. R., Mich. 



270 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Bipe Tomato Soy I 

Peel and slice 1 pk good, ripe tomatoes and add 1 qt good 
vinegar, 3% lbs brown sugar and 1 oz whole cloves. Boil 
slowly until it is rich and thick and reduced fully two-thirds. 
Bottle and seal. This will keep for years, and seems to get 
better with age. It is nice to serve with poultry, game or any 
meat. — [E. P. L. W., N. Y. 

Blpe Tomato Soy n 

Chop fine 12 ripe tomatoes, 10 onions, 10 large bell peppers, 
and add 1 qt good cider vinegar, 1 tablesp each salt and sugar, 
1 teasp each ground cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and a 
dash red pepper. Boil slowly until the consistency of apple 
butter, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. This amount 
will fill 2 qt glass jars. — [Mrs. M. V. H., Tenn. 

Wild Grape Relish 

Wash the grapes and cook them with only just enough 
water to prevent scorching. When soft, press through a sieve, 
and to each 10 lbs pulp add 5 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp ground cin- 
namon, 2 teasp ground cloves, 1 teasp allspice, 1 grated nut- 
meg, and 2 qts good vinegar. Boil slowly until as thick as 
catsup, and then bottle, cork and seal while hot. — [Mrs. J. 
L. R., O. 

Red Cabbage ReUsb 

To 1 qt raw, red cabbage, chopped fine, add 1 qt boiled, red 
beats, chopped fine, 2 cups sugar, 1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp 
black pepper, % teasp red pepper, 1 cup grated horseradish, 
and enough cold vinegar to cover. This requires no boiling, 
and when put up in air-tight jars will keep indefinitely. — 
[Mrs. S. E. F., Cal. 

Indian Clintney 

To 2 qts each chopped tart apples and green tomatoes, add 
1 lb seeded raisins, chopped, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 scant cups 
each lemon juice and vinegar, small % cup salt, 1 chopped 
onion, 1 teasp cayenne pepper and 1 oz ginger. Mix together 
well and let stand in an earthen jar over night. Next morn- 
ing set the jar in a kettle of cold water, let it heat slowly, and 
then boil 6 hours. Put up in cans and seaL — [Mrs. J. S., Ct. 



When making cold tomato catsup from ripe tomatoes, that 
requires no boiling, ripe nasturtium seeds are a nice addi* 
tion.-^[A. G., Mass. 




Fifeless eookery'=The Hay Box 

HOUGH the method is old — almost a century 
old, it is said — ^yet "fireless cookery," brought 
up to date, may be new to many of the 
present day housewives. Our great-grand- 
mothers and grandmothers used the hay box 
in the "old country," and in the armies of the continent this 
same method of fireless cookery has been used with success 
for many years. Progressive American housewives are now 
adopting it and enthusiastically sounding its praises. 
Lecturers on domestic science are doing their best to spread 
before tired housewives the gospel of fireless and fuel- 
saving cookery, while the government, by means of bulletins, 
and the household magazines all over the land, are contribut- 
ing their share toward the enlightenment of the cook. Too 
much cannot be said in favor of the "hay box" and fireless 
cookery. Try it, and if at first ydu don't succeed, try, try 
again. The recipes following tell how to prepare some 
simple dishes for the hay box, but after all is said and done, 
everyone will do best to experiment for herself — ^nothing 
like experience to teach one the most valuable "wrinkles" 
in cookery as well as in other departments of housekeeping. 

The Principle of It 

The principle of "fireless cookery" Is simple enough: When 
anything has once reached the boiling point, all that is needed 
is to keep it there, and this is accomplished by boiling for a few 
minutes over a coal-fire, or an oil or gas stove, and then deposit* 
Ing the boiling, bubbling food in the covered kettle In an air- 
tight receptacle closely packed with non-conducting material, 
which will retain the heat. This is what the hay box does. 
The primitive "hay box" has evoluted into the "asbestos box' 
and the "copper, double-tank cooker," exploited by ambitious 
manufacturers, but while the modern improvements^^ have 
added greatly to the expense of the original "hay box, they 
have done very little, if anything, to make more easy or 
practicable the work which the unpretentious invention of our 

271 



272 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



ancestors accomplished. The latter can be made right at 
home, without any, or hardly any expense, by any handy man 
of woman, in the following manner: 

The Gonstraction of the Hay Box 

Secure or make a box, about the size and shape of a trunk, 
and hinge a snug fitting cover to it. If you can spare a 
trunk all the better, as that will save you the work of making 
the box and cover. In any case, whether it Is a box or trunk, 
see to it that there are no cracks in it (if there are, fill them) 
and then line the inside with thick paper, pasting it In, and 
generously over-lapping all seams. In short, get it as air- 
tight as you can. If you can afEord to line it with asbestos, 
all the better, but asbestos is not essential. Next pack in, 
three-quarters full, clean, sweet-smelling hay, as closely as 
you can, and make a ticking pillow stuffed with hay, to fit 
as an inside cover, and to fill the box snugly, before the 
top wooden cover is capped down. Be sure to have the pil- 
low large enough, and well and evenly stuffed — about 5 or 6 
inches thick. Now, all you need after that are two or three 
earthern, iron or granite-ware kettles, or cook pots, (iron hold 
the heat best) with well fitting covers, and you are ready for 
business. 




The Hat Box and (a) Pillow 



HAY BOX CONSTRUCTION 273 

Hollow out neat "nests" in the hay, into which the cook 
pots will just fit snugly up to the top, and after you have 
cooked the contents of the pot over the fire the required 
number of minutes, according to the "hay box recipes" for 
each dish, remove the pots to the hay box nests immediately, 
without lifting the covers, and quickly put over the hay pillow, 
clap down the cover, cover the whole box with an old, (clean) 
carpet, a shawl or coat, or an old quilt, and your soup, or 
meat, or stew, or whatever you have put in, will keep right 
on cooking, until you open the box again. 

The first cooking or boiling over a fire takes only from 
2 to 5 minutes, and can be done in the early morning. Re- 
member, the hay box cooks or stews — it does not roast or fry. 
Also, the hay box cooks more slowly than the fire, requiring 
about double the time, but it does it better, and more thor- 
oughly, retaining the juices and aroma, which make the food 
more wholesome and palatable. Care must be taken to keep 
the hay and pillow clean and sweet-smelling. It is necessary 
to renew the hay once a month. Some hay box devotees 
prefer small, separate hay boxes for each cook pot, and per- 
haps the beginner would do well to try that scheme first. If 
you have never tried "fireless cookery," make up your mind 
right now that you will. — [Mrs. J. C, N. Y. 

A Few Additioniil Gonstraction Hints 

The following hints about the making of hay box cookers 
were gleaned from various sources and are well worth repeat- 
ing. 

Get the thick, heavy paper necessary to line the hay box, 
from your local printer's shop. It won't cost much — it may 
cost nothing. 

If you have a large hay box, divide it into compartments, 
with wooden partitions, and separate covers and paper line 
the partition and covers, too. 

Put castors under the hay box, so it can be easily moved. 

To save hay, use a layer of a crumpled newspaper, closely 
packed, in the bottom of the hay box. 

Use only fine hay, as that packs more closely. Never use 
coarse or clover hay. 

Put heavy weights on top of the cover of hay box, to 
prevent warping from steam. 

Earthern or iron pots are best for the hay box, as they 
retain heat better. Closely fitting covers are essential. 

Cover the hay pillow with a muslin slip, for the sake of 
cleanliness. For the same reason, line the nests and top of 
hay with muslin. This can be washed and saves hay from 
soil. 

Don't forget to pack the hay tight, tight, tight! 



274 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Be very sure that there are no sparks on the bottom of 
the cooking utensil when placed In the hay box, or the results 
will be disastrous. 

For rich preserves and jams that require long cooking over 
a slow fire, the hay box works to perfection. 

Set and securely and permanently fasten one box into an- 
other box about 2 or 3 inches larger all around, and tightly 
pack the space between with hay, excelsior, paper, sawdust or 
lamb's wool, coveriug the outside box and lining the inside 
box, and you will have a fine fireless cooker. 

Some Hay Box Advantages 

Too much cannot be said in favor of the "hay box" or fire- 
less cooker. It is so nice to come home from church and find 
the Sunday dinner all ready to serve. It is so nice to be 
able to leave a hot, well-cooked dinner for the hungry men- 
folks, when we want to go visiting, and being able to do 
so encourages us to "take a day off" oftener. It is so nice 
to be able to cook a dinner for company a day beforehand, 
and so be free from care and able to enjoy their visit. 

It is a wonderful help to the mother of several little "early 
risers" to know that the coffee, cereal and various other things 
are all ready, and dressing the children doesn't delay the 
breakfast. Then it's a great saver of fuel, and the food is so 
much better cooked that it not only tastes better, but digests 
better also, which is worth taking into consideration. 

One can have hot water for a tub bath hours after all fires are 
out, by putting the kettle in the hay box, and milk or water can 
be kept warm all night for a baby in a little box made just for 
the purpose. Also, dinner can be got ready while cooking 
breakfast, and the forenoon used to better advantage than 
bending all morning over a hot stove. — [J. R., Ind. 

Caation 

Be careful not to -use too much water, as it Is not necessary 
to allow for evaporation in hay box cookery. Remember this 
in preparing every dish; and also remember that it is most 
important to have the various dishes boiling briskly, and not 
to lift the lid before and after a vessel is once placed in the hay 
box. As nothing ever burns in the hay box, it will do no harm to 
leave things in a little longer, and don't be afraid that they'll 
get overdone, for they won't. But after you have once lifted 
the cover or taken a dish out of the hay box it won't boil 
any more, so be careful about removing anything too soon. 



HAY BOXES AND BUCKETS 



275 



Fireless Gookers, Big and Little 

My first flreless cooking experiment was with a common 
wooden candy bucket, such as the grocer will give you or sell 
for a few cents. I divided the lid into two parts — one being 
about three-quarters and the other one-quarter, and nailed 
the smaller part snugly in place on the bucket. Hinges of 
pieces of leather from an old shoe top fastened the larger 
piece to the small one. A narrow strip of leather at the 
ouier edge, and a screw in the side of the bucket, just where 
the "buttonhole" in the end of the leather strip would easily 
slip over it, secured the lid when the cooker was in use. It 
would be well perhaps, to stay the lid by cross strips, for 
fear of warping, as a certain amount of steam escapes from 
the tightest vessel. 




A Wooden Bucket Fibeless Cookeb 

The bucket may be covered with a ruffle to hide the sides, 
and have a cushion on top, and will make an odd little seat 
in the kitchen or dining room. It keeps the heat as well 
as anything I know, if it is papered several times, inside and 
out. I use excelsior for packing and pack it very hard, fill- 
ing to within 2 inches of the top. The nest for the kettle is 
made close fitting at the bottom of the pail, and gradually 
slants to the top, until it is a third as thick in packing. This 
allows the pillow for closing to tuck in very snugly, and keeps 
the air out better than when the hay or excelsior nest is level 
With the top of the kettle and the pillow laid across the 
whole surface. 



276 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Some say that the hay or excelsior must be changed every 
few weeks, but I do not see why. Unless food is spilled into 
the nest, or left in so long that it sours, the filling does not 
become tainted for many months. An occasional sunning of 
the filling, the leaving of the cooker open after the removal 
of contents, until thoroughly aired, is generally sufficient 
to keep it in good order. I find that the filling in the cover- 
pillow needs renewing most often, as it crushes up, and also, 
being handled most, is apt to get dirty. Another discovery is 
that the use of newspapers and other paper is a big help in 
the cooker. Not only may the box be papered smoothly, layer 
after layer, but if hay or excelsior are not handy, you may 
fill the box entirely with crushed or cut up paper. 

My large fireless cooker is considered quite a triumph by 
all my friends. In the first place it makes a nice looking piece 
of furniture, which looks well lin the dining room as well as 
kitchen, and again it is convenient because each nest can be 
opened without touching either of the others, and lastly 
because a woman built it, for I did every bit of the work myself. 
I made it about as high as a low table, because I am owner of 
a "back" and do not enjoy stooping. As the cut shows, it 
is of convenient width and will slip nicely under the drain- 
board of the sink, when necessary. It may be usied as a table 
on emergency, although if wanted for such use a good plan 
would be to omit the knob lifters for the lid sections, and 
use rings instead. Make a shallow hole in which these can 
lie when not in use, and then the top of the cooker will be 
smooth, and with an oil cloth spread, will make a very handy 
supplementary table. 

Another idea for added coijivenience would be to have a 
deep drawer or even a shelf space in the bottom, as the depth 
is not needed by the cooker, and these would be handy in 
almost any kitchen. The drawer would be nice to hold extra 
papers for use about the cooker, or, if the shelf space was 
substituted, a drop cover could snugly shut in the various 
pots used in the cooking. 

Ball bearing castors make it easy to move the cooker from 
room to room, or out on the porch. They cost but a few cents 
more than ordinary castors, and save oilcloth, carpets, and 
temper. The top of the cooker was made with three openings, 
as is shown, and each was "flanged" with strips all around the 
lid, so that it sets down snugly on all sides. But whatever 
plan you follow for the box, I would advise that you have 
some sort of partition between the sections, for then, when 
you open the cooker to take out one dish, you will not dimin- 
ish the heat in any other section. Each section should be 
Uned and packed as if it were a separate affair. 

Remember that you must not expect anything crisp from 
the cooker, but for anything to be steamed, boiled or baked — 
all but the crispy part — ^this hay box method is most satis- 



A FIRELESS COOKER 



27r 



factory. Any article of food takes, on general principles 
about three or four times as long to cook in the flreless box. 
No absolute rule can be given, as there are so many ways of 
making heat, and so many degrees of heat-conserving, through 
the close or loose packing of the box. And the time on the 
stove for preliminary boiling, of course, varies somewhat. 
These are things you must learn in absoluteness for yourself. 
However, here is a good thing to remember, that the longer 
time hurts nothing, so when in doubt at first, put everything 
in for longer than you think will be needed. The utensils 
should be of iron, enamel-ware or stone, to do the best, but 
tin or aluminum can be used. A pie pan that will set snugly 
into the top of a kettle, or even a basin makes a lid that will 
allow another utensil to sit easily on top of the lower one in. 
each nest. 




'a. FntEiEss CooKEE With Thbee Compabthents 

I haven't said much about the size of the sections of the 
cooker, for the reason that one person cannot very well dictate 
this part. Take the largest kettle you use for your family 
cookery, and allow the section to he at least 2 inches larger 
around, inside measure, and you will about hit it. Two 
inches of excelsior or hay all around the pot, if tightly packed, 
will be about enough, especially if the box is well papered. 



278 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Bnilder's paper is good for lining, and if it is used, there is 
not so much need of any other packing. Asbestos is also good 
for lining, and a space not much larger than your kettle will 
do if asbestos is used. 

For a small batch of bread, the fireless cooker is fine. Set 
your sponge at night as usual, have the nest warm from the 
holding of a pot of boiling water while you have been mixing 
the sponge, and tuck the setting away all night, to keep cozy 
and raise. For a large baking an ordinary cooker would 
hardly furnish a compartment large enough. But if I had 
that to do, I would get a box that would nicely hold my big 
pan, and fix it up in a similar manner, and be sure of evenly 
raised bread dough, both for the first and second raisings. 

Of all discoveries for lightening the housewife's work, the 
method of cooking by sustained heat is clearly first. So many 
people say, "But how can it be?" But when one stops to 
think, the principle is simple and clear. We know that when 
we have any article of food that needs long cooking, we put 
it at the front of the stove until it boils well, then remove it 
Where it is less hot, to keep to a steady boiling-point. Well, 
In the hay box this point is maintained by the simple process 
of conserving the heat that is already in the boiling kettle. 

Don't think you must not use the fireless cooker in winter. 
I am not wedded to my kitchen even in winter, and would 
rather sit in the dining room and sew than stand over the 
stove half a day. God bless the person, say I, who discovered 
fireless, heatless, and temperless cookery, and may each driven 
housemother in the world learn its value to herself and her 
home. More time for getting acquainted with books, flowers, 
fancy work and people — including her own dear ones — and 
more happiness and good cheer follow in the wake of the 
fireless cooker. — [M. M. F., Cal. 

Cooking Suggestions and General Directions 

Rice, oatmeal or other cereals need a start of 5 minutes' 
cooking over a fire. If wanted for breakfast, can remain in 
hay box all night. Food cooked in hay box never burns and 
never gets overdone. 

Pot roast should first be browned or seared over the fire, 
then cooked about 2 minutes before putting in hay box, where 
it should remain about 4 hours. Treat chicken the same, but 
if it is old, leave longer in hay box. 

For baked beans, soak over night, parboil, mix and boil 10 
minutes, then put in hay box at least 6 hours. Take out and 
brown in oven. 

Soups and stews, after a good start over the fire, should 
have from 6 to 8 hours in the hay box. Vegetables require 
only 2 to 3 hours in the box — ^potatoes a little longer. 



FIRELESS COOKING RECIPES 279 



The time required for cookiag is indicated in the special 
recipes, but things reauiring only 2 hours can be put in -with 
others requiring 8 or 10 hours, so the box need not be dis- 
turbed, as long standing does not spoil anything in the least. 
Whatever is cooked in the hay box requires at least twice as 
long cooking as over the Are. Plenty of water must be put in 
at the start for all dried foods that swell — beans, cereals, dried 
fruit, etc. — and no water allowed for evaporation with the 
other sorts. 

Nearly all desserts will cook In 2 hours in the hay box, but 
it dbes not follow that they cannot be put in until 2 hours 
before wanted, as they remain hot a long time and can be left 
in all day if that is most convenient. 

Cereal Coffee 

This is never at its best unless boiled a long time, so the 
hay box is a particularly good way to cook it for breakfast, 
when one seldom can take the time to boil it as long as it 
should be. Put In the usual proportions, cook 5 minutes on the 
fire and set in the hay box over night. In the morning strain 
and heat to boiling. 

Breads and Paddings 

Steamed breads and puddings can be finished in the hay 
box by placing one vessel within another, half filling the outer 
vessel with boiling water. Place a wire rack between the 
bottoms of the two vessels, so that they won't touch and the 
boiling water can reach all parts. Boston brown or graham 
breads require only about % hour over the fire and 5 hours in 
the hay box. Plum pudding takes about the same time in the 
box, but should first have an hour's boiling over the fire. 
Tapioca pudding and rice require only about 5 minutes' cook- 
ing and 2 hours in the box. 

Bice Pudding 

Put 1 at milk, a good % cup each of rice and sugar, 1 
tablesp butter, % teasp salt, and the grated rind of a lemon 
or other flavoring, into a deep pudding pan. Bring the milk to 
boiling, set the pan in a kettle of boiling water, let hoil 5 
minutes and remove to the hay box without raising the lid. 
Leave in 3 hours or longer. Each grain will be whole and 
separate, but soft as jelly. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

To 1 cup each of cornmeal, rye meal and graham flour add 
2 teasp soda and 1 of salt, % cup molasses and 2 cups sour 
milk. Pour into a buttered mold not over % full. Place a rack 



280 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



(tea-stand or iron-stand) in a kettle, set in the bread mold, 
fill kettle nearly to tlie top of mold witli boiling water, cover 
and boil % hour on the stove. Remove to hay box and cook 
for 5 or 6 hours. If fruit bread is wanted, add % cup raisins 
to the mixture. 

Steamed Bea^ Pudding ' 

Cream % cup sugar and 1 egg; add % cup milk, 2 teasp 
baking powder and flour to make as stiff as cake. Stir into 
this an equal quantity of any sort of fresh, small fruit— wher- 
ries, cherries, etc. — and pour into buttered pudding mold. Stand 
in a covered kettle of boiling water and boil % hour to heat 
the mixture through. Remove to the hay box while closely 
covered, and cook 2 hours or longer. Serve with cream and 
sugar or any preferred sauce. Increase the quantities accord- 
ing to the number to be served, as this makes only a small 
pudding. 

Brown Betty 

Mix 1% cups fine bread crumbs with 2 cups minced tart 
apples. Add Vz teasp each cinnamon and allspice, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, a lump of butter, sugar to taste, milk to make a 
thin batter, and turn into a buttered pudding dish. Set in 
a covered kettle of boiling water and cook on the fire 20 
minutes and in the hay box 3 hours. Serve with any preferred 
liquid sauce. 

Dried Fruit Sance 

First wash well and then soak evaporated peaches, apples, 
prunes, pears or apricots over night in cold water. In the 
morning add sugar according to the kind of fruit, boil 5 
minutes, then set in the hay box 2 hours. Or, the sugar may 
be omitted and boiled to a syrup separately and added afte^ 
the fruit is cooked. 

Pot Boasts and Boiled Meats 

Boiled meats or pot roasts or fowl are all improved in flavor 
by long and slow cooking. For this reason the hay box is 
admirably adapted for the preparation of such dishes, as there 
is no escape of steam and aroma. Prepare over the fire in the 
usual way, boil from % to 1 hour, and finish in the hay box 
from 3 to 4 hours, sometimes longer, as in the case of a whole 
ham, when 8 to 10 hours are none too long. 

Boiled Beefsteak 

Remove bone from a steak cut about % inch thick. Spread 
with a nice dressing made as for chicken, with bread crumbs, 
melted butter, salt, pepper and poultry seasoning or sweet 
herbs, press the dressing down smoothly, roll and wrap 
securely with twine. Put % cup drippings into a heavy skillet 



HAY BOX DINNERS 281 

and when quite hot lay in the roll and turn it until browned 
all around. Lift into a kettle and add 2 tablesp flour to the 
remaining grease; when browned add 1 pt water, salt and 
pepper to season, and when it has boiled, pour it over the beef 
roll in the kettle. Start the meat to boiling briskly in the 
gravy, then remove, closely covered, to the hay box and leave 
for 5 or 6 hours. Lift to a hot platter, add a little grated 
onion to the gravy and pour it over the loaf. 

Boiled Dinner 

Put the ham or corned beef in water first and boil % hour, 
then add cabbage, onions, turnips, carrots, potatoes or what- 
ever assortment of vegetables Is liked and let all boil again 
for 10 minutes, then put in the hay box for 4 to 6 hours. 

Chicken Stew 

Joint and boil for 20 minutes on the stove. Lift out the 
chicken and add a cup of cream, enough flour to thicken 
slightly, salt and pepper to season. Stir until it boils, add the 
chicken, boil 10 minutes again, then put into hay box for' 
3 hours or longer, according to age. 

Old Giilcken liVied 

With the aid of the hay box one can have fried chicken any 
morning for breakfast, even from the 'dest hen on the place. 
Joint, add boiling water to cover, salt to season, and boll 15 
minutes. Put in the hay box over night. In the morning, 
drain out the pieces, roll in flour, and fry brown. Use broth 
for making gravy. 

Boiled Ham 

Soak in water over night, scrape and clean, and boil on stove 
% hour, then place in hay box 8 hours. Remove the rind and 
bake % hour if liked, or slice without baking. 

Boiled Fish 

Roll the fish in a strip of cheesecloth, tie the ends, and drop 
into boiling water, adding salt and a little vinegar or juice of 
lemon. Boil 5 minutes on stove and 2 or 3 hours in hay box. 
Drain and serve with any preferred fish sauce. 

Vegetables 

A preliminary cooking of 5 to 15 minutes over the fire for 
vegetables is usually enough, supplemented by 2 to 3 hours in 
the hay box. Dry vegetables absorb a lot of water, so enough 
must be put in at once, as it is of course impossible to add any 
during Its cooking in the -hay box. Dried corn or beans should 
be soaked over night in water before cooking, and also dried 
fruits. 



282 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

— • -1 

Green Com and Peas 

Husk corn, put in boiling water to cover, adding salt and a 
little sugar, boil 5 minutes on the stove, and remove to hay box 
for 2 hours. (Longer if wished to keep hot.) Boil peas 10 
minutes on stove, add milk to cover, butter, salt and pepper 
to season, bring to a boil again, and put into hay box 2 hours. 

Asparagus 

Cut off tough ends, cover with waten boil 5 minutes on stove 
and place in the hay box 1 hour. If one likes to use the 
liquid in which it is cooked, milk, butter, pepper and salt may 
be added and it is ready when taken up; otherwise, the water 
can be drained off when taken up and a cream sauce made 
over the fire. 

Sumner Squash 

Pare, remove seeds and cut in small pieces, add water and 
boil 5 minutes on the stove and 2 hours in the hay box. Drain, 
mash, season with butter, salt, pepper, and a little cream if 
liked. 

Beets 

Wash, and boil 10 minutes on the stove. Place in the hay 
box 2 hours. Slip off skins, chop fine, and season generously 
with butter and pepper; also add some sugar and salt, and 
either % cup sweet cream or a little vinegar, as preferred, 
but don't add both cream and vinegar. 

String Beans 

Break into % -inch pieces, boil 5 minutes on the stove, drain 
off water and cover with boiling milk. Season with butter, 
salt and pepper, bring to a brisk boil and put into the hay 
box for 5 hours. Another way: Brown 1 tablesp each flour 
and lard in the kettle, add the beans and enough water to 
cover, stir well, add salt and pepper, also salt pork if liked, 
boil 5 minutes and cook in hay box 5 hours. 

Dry Beans 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning add a pinch of 
soda and bring to a boil. Drain off this water and add 
a piece of salt pork, salt and pepper, and boil 5 minutes over 
the fire. Put into the hay box 6 hours. If wanted baked, 
when they are tender, add 4 tablesp cooking molasses, turn 
into a baking dish, cover with the pork, sliced, and bake %; 
hour. 



Destiny 




'ZKni doalefulU lookytb b^ 

^Anft mahetl) souitde to alte arouitAe 

^^l)"^ t)£ nta; l)aptse see. 

Tor now Is It i)V eatjnse tjme 

'^^iVnd nougbt w;tl)lnne tbejre be. 



"Td maket^ plaint. beseacl)ful. sab. 

7fe gozetb for and neare, 

tC^.? f'Srebeaft ifatt) a troubled look 

"Tf^? e;es a tjaunt^nse fedre. 

Bill, falletb m l)':-^ trough'. ga6zook 

Of com a dozen jeare. 





C^en stilletb l)e b^f lustle vo;c& 

'!A.nd s^ttetb be to sup. 

ytot lookjtb b' lo risbt not tefte 

I3tU alle- Is eaten uf f e. 

'StoT l;stetb b' ?" summer sktes 

^ut la^etb lip to cup. 



O full and square b^* "ol"'' kifP^s 
"^nb psnkle-wbite b^* sklnne. 
H'm ravisbed bj b'?* dalntje feet. 
"K^* cboppes m; fancle wlnne. 
"^nd wb«n ;' froste Is on ;' tea 
yepoarke Is ^ajtbered Inne. 




C¥/mJ C/f(2 i^^fwiS/l 




Butchering Time Recipes 

ERHAPS there is no work which falls to 
the lot of housekeepers on our farms that 
is more dreaded or disliked by them than 
the yearly or semi-yearly jobs connected 
with butchering time, which the women 
must perform — ^the trimming, salting, cur- 
iing,« pickling ' and smoking, and the rendering of fat. 
(Though fresh meat is rare in many farm homes most of 
the 'year, . when butchering time comes, there is such a 
plethoras of it that the appetite and appreciation for it 
decrease at a rapid rate. This is only natural, and it is 
therefore well to know how to preserve as much of it as 
possible, for use during those seasons when fresh meat, or 
meat of any kind besides poultry, is not so plentiful. A 
careful study of the following recipes will convince the 
economical and ambitious housewives that there need be 
very little, if any, waste at butchering time, and that there 
need be no monotony or lack of good meat "timber" in 
farm homes, where the farmers do their own butchering. 

How to Cnt Up a Beef 

When, killing a beef it is very essential to properly quarter 
and cut the carcass, in order that the good cuts may be sepa- 
rated from the poor. Figure I illustrates the ordinary method 
of.'eutting up a beef, now used by butchers. The following 
explanation of the various parts gives the names of these cuts 
and the common uses to which they are put: 

The hind quarter is divided into nine cuts as follows: No 1, 
choice roasts, the porter and sirloin steaks; 2, rump, used for 
steaks, stews and corned beef; 3, aitch-bone, used for boiling 
pieces, stews and pot roasts; 4, bullock or round steak, for 
roasts or boiling pieces; 5, bottom round, for boiling and stew- 
ing; 6, shin or leg, for soups and hashes; 7, thick flank, for 
stews, corned beef and boiling pieces; 8, veiny piece, for 
corned or dried beef; 9, thin flank, for corned beef and boiling. 

The fore quarter is divided into nine parts as follows: No 10, 
forerib, prime roasts and fine steaks; 11, middle ribs, prime 



284 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

roasts; 12, chuck ribs, the second quality of roasts and steaks; 
13, brisket, for corned beef, soups, etc; 14, shoulder piece, for 
soups, mince meat, and hashes; 15-16, neck, for soup, mince 
meat, hash and bologna sausage; 17, shin or shank, for soups 
and stews; 18, cheek, for mince meat and sausage. 

The Chicago retail meat dealers have a somewhat different 
method of cutting up the animal, as shown iu Pig II. The 




FIG I — COMMON CUTTING METHOD 




FIG II — CHICAGO RETAIL METHOD 



BUTCHERING- TIME HINTS 285 

parts as numbered on the sketch are: 1, neck; 2, chuck; 3, 
prime rib; 4, porterhouse; 5, sirloin; 6, rump; 7, round; 8 
plate; 9, flank; 10, shin; 11, shank. They cut a larger part 
of the animal in the portions 3, 4, and 5, which represent the 
higher priced cuts. — [F & H. 

About Pork Making 

Hog killing and pork making on the farm have become 
almost lost arts in these days of mammoth packing establish- 
ments which handle such enormous numbers of swine at all 
seasons of the year, says the editor of "Home Pork Making," 
published by the Orange Judd Company, New York and Chi- 
cago. Yet the progressive farmer of today should not only pro- 
vide his own fresh and cured pork for family use, but also 
should be able to supply at remunerative prices such persons 
in his neighborhood as appreciate the excellence and general 
merit or economy of homemade pork product. "Home Pork 
Making" is a complete guide for the farmer in all that pertains 
to hog slaughtering, curing, preserving and storing pork prod- 
uct, from scalding vat to kitchen table and dining room, 
including numerous prize recipes. ' 

The general appearance of the most choice pork is from an 
animal, the carcass of which will not weigh less than 50 lbs, 
and not more than 120 lbs. according to Voe. author of the 
"Market Assistant" published by Orange Judd Company, New 
York and Chicago. The skin should present a semi-transparent 
appearance, approaching white in color; the fat on the back 
should not be less than half inch thick, white and firm, and 
the lean should be of a pale reddish color, and juicy. The 
skin of the older animals is thicker and coarser, while the lean 
is of a darker color, but equally sweet, juicy and tender. By 
many, fresh pork is considered to be exceedingly unwholesome 
during the months of the year of high temperature. This, no 
doubt, to a great extent is true, the fatty, gross character of the 
flesh not being easily assimilated, when the animal economy of 
the human system requires less heating nourishment to the 
blood, and therefore requires less irritating food to the diges- 
tive organs. 

The carcass of pork being Intended for immediate use while 
in its first state, is hung by the foot of its right hind leg, then 
cut down through the skin of the center of the back from the 
tail to the neck, followed with the splitting down of the back 
bone through the line of the incision, dividing it into halves or 
sides. These are again divided, after taking off the head, into 
quarters. The hind quarter is first divided by taking oflf the 
leg of pork and when intended for corning, should be kept in 
pickle 10 or 12 days before use. The loin of pork, if not too 
fat, is good for roasting and also furnishes fine pork chops and 



286 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

delicate pieces for corning. The fore quarter of pork if small, 
is often roasted whole, after having the blade bone removed; 
If large, it is divided across the ribs, using the thin part or 
brisket of pork for corning, after taking off the hocks and feet. 
Figure I, 'vrhich shows the pork carcass lying on a block or 
table, furnishes a good diagram for cutting. First separate the 
head from the carcass, then split the carcass through the back 
bone with a chopper, then with a sharp knife loosen the leaf 
and kidney fat and tear it away toward the leg, the kidney, of 
course, being brought away with it. Each side is then divided 
into its fore and hind quarters by leaving two ribs on each of 
the latter. The next cut loosens the tenderloin from where it 
is connected with the ham, when it is torn out upwards toward 




FIG I — PORK CARCASS ON A BLOCK 

the ribs or head. The hams are then removed, beginning at the 
tail side and cutting circularly to the flank, after sawing the 
small bone about half way and chopping or sawing off the feet. 
Next cut off the brisket of pork, which is usually corned. The 
chine of pork, without the back fat, is much used for chops. 
Steaks or roasting, while some prefer this part for sausage 
meat. The back fat, on the loin, is also taken oil in the same 
manner, when the loin is prepared for either chops or roast- 
ing. 

Figure II represents the mode of cutting pork carcass for 
barreling. The same mode of cutting is here adapted, by sep- 
arting the head from the carcass, then splitting the carcass, 
cutting off the fresh hams and feet, tearing out the leaf and 
kidney fat, taking out the tenderloin — as previously shown. 
Then the head (10 and 3) is divided by cutting off the cheeks, 
beginning from the comer of the mouth, following the line 
towards 9 (see also Fig I, A B), and saw off the jawbone, 
which separates the cheeks from the plate; then crack the bone 
of the under jaw between the front teeth and the cheeks, held 
together to hang up by. Next take off the shoulder by cutting 
straight across the side, as shown Fig I (D) ; then trim off the 



CUTTING UP THE HOG 



287 



spare ribs, by cutting under the breast-bone, and so follow the 
ribs as far as the chine-bone, when the knife is continued on. 
directly to the end of the long bones in the back, which leaves 
the shoulder about one thickness, and the spare-ribs (not too 
spare) , with meat enough left on them to make a roast. Then 
trim the shoulder round (see 2), and saw off the feet, which 
forms the shoulder similar to a ham. The brisket and flanks 
are next cut ofC, then the ribs (5) and loin pieces (4) are cut 
in suitable sizes, when all are ready to salt, except that the 
trimmings and some other pieces can be used for sausages. 
The leaf tat and pieces of fat are rendered into lard, and the 
pate, etc, is used for head cheese. 




FIG II — ^HOW TO CUT PORK FOR BARRELING 



1. 


Leg, or fresh ham. 


7. 


Flank. 


2. 


Shoulder (after being trimmed). 


8. 


Tail-piece. 


3. 


Chops or cheeks. 


9. 


Neck-piece. 


4. 


Loin-pieces. 


10. 


Pate or skull. 


5. 


Rib, or chine-pieces. 


11. 


Feet. 


6. 


Brisket. 







The flesh of the hog, diseased when slaughtered, is exceed- 
ingly unwholesome, and is not fit to be used for any purpose. 
Certain diseases may be known by yellowish lumps or kernels 
distributed through the fat and lean, and the flesh having a 
heavy, dull appearance. 

By Way of Preparation 

The day before you butcher, sharpen the knives, prepare 
the table, and set down the dipping barrel half of its depth 
into the ground, tilting it toward the table. Now fix a pulley; 



288 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

directly above, which should be used when dipping, and also 
when hanging the pork to cool. If the weather is not very 
cold, butcher in the evening, so as to allow the pork to cool 
quickly, but in cold weather begin early in the morning and 
have plenty of boiling water and everything else in readiness. 
[P & H. 

Gleaning and Separating the Entrails 

As soon as the entrails are removed from the carcass, carry 
them into the house, lay out on a table, and go to work 
swiftly, before they have a chance to get cold. Have ready 
several sharp little knives, plenty of clean cloths, and some 
twine. The table should be long and narrow, and tipped up 
slightly at one end, and the feet at the other end placed in 
a large tub, to catch the drip. Better still is a flat wooden 
flue, of the correct width and length, with a 6-inch strip nailed 
along each side. 

Carefully cut away all fat and throw into cold salt water, 
the leaf lard being put in a separate vessel. Put the heart, 
kidneys and liver in a separate vessel of salt water, being 
careful not to break the gall bag. If an ox, save the latter, 
as ox gall is good for many things. Clean the stomach and 
also put in salt water, and treat the casings the same. Waste 
can be fed to the chickens. If you should happen to cut into 
the intestines, quickly tie up with twine and clean away excre- 
ment. It is better for two people to go at this work, to finish 
before it gets cold. — [A. G., Mass. 

When Beef Is Killed 

When the weather gets cold, and after the beef is butchered, 
we let it hang for 2 or 3 days in a cool place, and then cut it 
up. We cut quite a number of nice lean pieces without any 
bone in them, and put them in brine for 2 or 3 weeks, then 
take them out and wipe dry, and put each one into a little 
cheesecloth sack, and hang over the cook stove to dry. This 
makes our dried beef. This is the way we hang them up: 
We take two pieces of rope about 2 feet long, and double 
them and fasten the ends to the ceiling about 5 feet apart, 
letting the loops hang down. Then we take a long smooth 
stick, and fasten all the little cheesecloth sacks of beef on the 
stick, and put each end of the stick in the loops of rope. 

We use some of the beef to make several large crocks of 
mincemeat, as it will keep all winter in a cold place. The rest 
of the beef we corn. Be most particular about the barrel 
> — never use a barrel that has been used for other purposes, 
or if beef has ever soured in it. Get a new barrel, (a g6od 
molasses barrel is best), and clean it well. 



PACKING PORK IN SALT 289 

Cut all the large bone out of the meat and then pack the 
heef In the barrel tightly. Cover with a hardwood board that 
will fit down in the barrel, put a clean, heavy stone on it, and 
it is ready for the pickling brine, which we make as follows: 
To 2 gals water add 3 lbs salt, 1 lb sugar, 1 oz saltpeter, and 
2 tablesp baking soda. Make as many gallons as you need, 
adding the same ingredients to every 2 gals water. Put in 
a boiler, boil, skim well, and pour boiling hot over the beef. 
Be sure the brine covers the beef well — ^yes, more than covers 
it — as it will soak in the beef some. If you should ever need 
to add more brine, do not put it on hot — that is only done 
the first time. — [Farmer's Wife, Colo. 



To Pack Fork in Salt 

The pork should hang in a cool place over night. Be sure 
that all the animal heat is out of it. Cut the sides Into strips 
crosswise. Cover the bottom of a perfectly clean barrel with 
clean, coarse salt, and then pack in the strips of pork closely, 
edgewise, with the rind next to the barrel. Then fill the crev- 
ices in between with salt, and cover the top of the layer with 
salt, and proceed in this way until the pork is all in, or the 
barrel is filled. Make a strong brine of salt and cold water, 
using so much salt that the water will not dissolve any more — ■ 
it should be strong enough to float an egg. Boil and skim this 
brine, and then pour it into the barrel over the pork, while 
boiling hot. Cover the pork with a round, hard piece of 
board, a little smaller than the barrel head, put a clean stone 
on it, heavy enough to keep it down under the brine, then 
cover the barrel and set away in a cool, dry place. If at any 
time the brine should froth or look red, it should be turned 
out, scalded and skimmed, and then poured over the meat 
again scalding hot. Never put cold brine on old pork. We 
have pickled our pork in this way for many years, and have 
never lost any. When wanted for use freshen the pork by 
letting it stand in warm water on the back of the stove about 
half hour, — [Mrs. E. E. J., Cal. 



To Pack Frozen Meat in Hay-Box 

Take a large, strong, tight, wooden dry goods box, line 
inside with several thicknesses of paper, pasting it in closely 
and overlapping the seams generously, then put a thick layer 
of hay or sawdust in the bottom of the box, and cover with 
paper. Freeze hams, spare ribs, shoulders, or any pieces of 
fresh pork, beef, or poultry that you wish to keep fresh foi" 
future use, and be sure that the freezing is most thorough, 



290 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

so that each piece is frozen all the way through. Wrap each 
piece separately in several layers of clean, light brown paper, 
then pack a layer of these pieces in a box prepared as above, 
fiU all the crevices between the pieces with fine hay, packing 
it in solidly, cover the layer of meat pieces with about 5 or 6 
inches of hay, then pack in more meat as directed above, and 
so on until all the frozen meat is stored, or the box is full, 
being careful to have plenty of hay all around the sides, and 
on the top. Next put on a tight cover of wood, also lined 
with paper inside, and throw some thick covering over the 
box, such as an old comforter, blanket, fur robe, or a piece 
of heavy carpet. The box, of course, should stand in a cold 
and dry place. Frozen meat packed in this way will remain 
frozen and sweet for months, and will even withstand quite a 
long thaw. — [Mrs. I. R. N., Me. 

Canning Meat, Poultry and Sausages 

Cut the meat or poultry in pieces of convenient size, trim 
carefully, and be sure they are sweet and clean. Boil until 
tender in enough water to cover, seasoning to taste, the same 
as for immediate use, and when all the meat Is well done 
and tender, press a little at a time in hot glass fruit jars, 
then pour in a little of the hot gravy (which should first have 
been boiled down until it is almost ready to jelly when cold) 
until the gravy fills up all the vacant places around the meat| 
but not enough to cause the meat to float. Then press in 
another layer of meat and more gravy, and proceed in this 
way until the jar is filled up to within one inch of the top 
Be very sure that there are no air spaces left in the cans Then 
fill each can overflowing full with melted suet, and seal air 
tight, using new rubbers and observing all the usual canning 
precautions. Set the jars away in a permanent storage place 
which should be cool, dark and dry, and do not move the cans 
after once setting away. The melted suet on top will harden 
and moving the cans after the layer of suet has hardened is 
apt to break it. Sausages should be pricked and boiled in 
water until tender, and packed in jars the same as meat, with 
a layer of melted lard or suet on top. Everything wants to 
be boiling hot when canned, sealed air tight, and set away 
while hot. Great care must be taken to use only perfect, air- 
tight cans. This recipe for canning meat has been used in our 
family successfully for many years. — [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. 

Smoking Meat 

The smokehouse should be large enough and have enougE 
ventilation to prevent the meat becoming overheated. It is 
best to have the fire outside, with a length of stovepipe to 



ABOUT SMOKING MEAT 291 

conduct the smoke into the house. Hard wood, such as maple 
or green hickory, smothered with sawdust of the same, are 
the best for smoking meat, and corncobs the next best. Wood 
with resin, as spruce or pine, gives a bad flavor to the meat. 
There is a low, prickly, evergreen shrub, bearing green ber- 
ries, that grows in some localities, and where this can be had 
it is nicer than anything else, giving the meat a delicious 
flavor. Meat to be smoked should be well washed, or scrubbed 
with a hand brush in tepid water, to prevent a crust of 
salt forming on the outside, or if very salt, soaked over night. 
It should hang and dry out a day before being put into the 
smokehouse, and then hung so no two pieces touch each 
other. The fire should be slow at first, to heat up the meat 
gradually, and meat should never be frozen when put in the 
smokehouse. In cold weather it is best to keep the fire going 
steadily until finished, or the meat will not smoke evenly, 
owing to the inside being too cold for the smoke to penetrate, 
after cooling. Thirty-six hours will smoke meat nicely, if 
the fire is kept going steadily, or in warm weather a fire built 
every other day for two weeks cures it nicely, keeping the 
ventilator screened and the house dark, to exclude flies. — i 
[F & H. 

Keeping Smoked Meat 

If the meat can be kept away from flies, it will keep nicely 
in a cool, dry cellar, but if one fly can get at it, it must be 
otherwise protected. A good and easy way is to wrap In paper 
and then in muslin sacks, and bury in a grain bin, by this 
method keeping a uniform temperature and excluding insects. 
If this cannot be done, it will be absolutely safe if wrapped in 
paper and put in muslin sacks, and the sacks completely 
coated with either ordinary lime whitewash or "yellow wash," 
and hung up so they do not touch. The directions for "yel- 
low wash" are: 3 lbs barites, 4 lbs flour, % lb chrome yel- 
low, 1-6 lb glue. Make the day before using. Heat 1% gala 
water and add the flour, mixed to a smooth paste. Dissolve 
the chrome in 1 qt water and add it. Boil, stirring con- 
stantly, and adding barites slowly. Apply cold with a brush, 
and stir often while using. — [F & H. 

Smoking In a Box 

Take a large, light box, place hooks inside the top to hang 
the meat on, and have a hole made on the side to fit a stove- 
pipe. Then take an old discarded heater and fit the pipe 
to the box, with the stove outside the box. Have a lid or 
door on one side of the box, so you can look to the meat. 
Start a flre with a few dry cobs, flll partly with straw, an4 



292 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

then with boughs of cedar. If kept up all day, the meat will 
be done by night. The meat should have been in brine for 
2 or 3 weeks, then hung up to dry a little, before smoking. 
When smoked, let hang In box until ready to put down. Wrap 
the pieces in cloths, put in a barrel, and cover with oats. 

A Barrel Smoker 

Screw 3 or 4 hooks in the inside of the bottom of a good 
clean, close and large barrel, and turn it over an iron vessel 
in which a few live coals have been placed, with cor» cobs 
and hickory chips piled on top, to make a steady amoke. 
Hang the hams, shoulders or pieces on the hooks, but be care- 
ful not to crowd in too many, or the smoke cannot reach all 
parts. The smoking should be done slowly, evenly and 
steadily. A little ventilation is needed, or the fire will go 
out, but not enough to allow too much smoke to escape.—' 
[A. G., Mass. 

Smoked Barrel for Bacon and Hams 

Put a few live coals in an iron kettle, cover with clean 
com cobs, turn a clean barrel over this kettle, and smoke 2 
hours at a time for 2 days. If smoked too long at a time, 
it would shrink the barrel. When thoroughly smoked, put a 
brine in the barrel made of 10 lbs salt, 8 ozs saltpeter and 
2% qts molasses, for every 100 lbs meat. Add water enough 
to cover the meat. Pack the meat in this brine and weight 
down. The smoked barrel will impart the smoked flavor to 
the meat. — [Miss G. A. P., N. H. 

Treating Hams After Smoking 

Have a boiler full of boiling water, dip the hams in, and 
let them remain 2 or 3 minutes, then remove, and cover 
them with a thick paste made of flour, water and cayenne 
pepper. The paste should be red with the pepper. Hang 
the covered hams in the sun until the paste covering is dry. 
Then put in stout paper sacks, tie closely, and hang in a dark 
and cool place. — [Mrs. J. S. H., 111. 

To Keep Meat Without Smoking 

After the animal heat has gone out of the meat, pack the 
pieces away in dry salt 4 weeks, after which dip each piece 
In a very strong solution of boiling hot salt water, dry ofE 
and rub thoroughly with borax and black pepper. — [Mrs. M. 
G. P., I. T. 



SUGAR AND SALT CURED PORK 293 

To Dry Sugar Cure Meat 

For 400 lbs meat allow 10 lbs salt, 1% lbs each black 
pepper and brown, sugar, and 4 ozs saltpeter. Mix well 
together and rub each piece of meat well with this mixture, 
using the hands, about 5 or 10 minutes. Do not pile up the 
pieces of meat, but lay them out on a board or table, skin 
side down, in a cool place, but not cold enough to freeze. 
Let them stay there 4 to 6 weeks, after which they will be 
ready to smoke. After smoking wrap them in clean, sweet 
hay then put them in muslin sacks, and bang in a cool, dark 
place. — [Mrs. A. W., Mo. 

Dry Cured Pork 

For each 100 lbs pork use 5 lbs salt, 2 lbs sugar and 2 ozs 
saltpeter. Mix well and divide into three parts. Rub the 
meat thoroughly with a third of the mixture at intervals of 
3 days, packing very closely in the barrel, and reversing 
the order of the pieces at each rubbing. If there is a good 
deal of meat, it is easier to have two barrels, putting the meat 
into one, as it is taken from the other, and pouring over the 
little liquid, if any forms. After the last rubbing let it lie for 
10 days in the barrel, when it will be cured and ready for 
smoking. While curing, the meat must be kept in a cool and 
moist place, and unless it can be. It is best to use the brine 
method. — [F & H. 

Salt Cured Pork 

Heat salt in a baking pan In the oven, until it is thoroughly 
hot, then rub it in the fleshy side of the meat with a large 
flat spoon, as it will be too hot to apply with the hand. Rub 
all on that will stick to the meat — for large hams two applica- 
tions will be necessary. This does not harden the lean meat, 
as brine does. Be sure to keep the salt hot. I have cured 
meat in this way in hot weather, and never lost any — ^the 
salt strikes in so quickly that it cannot spoil. — [Farmer's 
Wife, Col. 

The Barrel for Pickling or Curing 

It is most important that the barrel for pickling meat 
should be absolutely clean. First scald and scrape the barrel 
thoroughly, then set into the barrel a vessel containing a small 
lump of quicklime, pour a pail of boiling hot water over the 
lime, cover the barrel, and let the fumes of the slacking lime 
sweeten it. After this wash the barrel again, then put in a 
generous armful of new sweet hay, pour over plenty boiling 



294 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



water, cover closely, and leave until cold. After this, thor- 
ougbly rinse the barrel again with fresh water, and if any 
bad odor remains, the case is hopeless and a new barrel an 
unavoidable necessity. — [Mrs. E. L. G., N. Y. 

To Cure Hams 

For 100 lbs meat allow 7 lbs salt, 2%. lbs browm sugar, 2 
ozs saltpeter, and sufficient water to cover the meat, when 
closely packed in a barrel. Boil the salt, sugar, saltpeter and 
water, skim and then add 1 oz cayenne pepper and 2 ozs 
each ground clove and black pepper. Cool, and when cold 
pour over the meat, weight down, cover, and set away in a 
cool place. — [Mrs. F. C. F., N. H. 

Preserving Meat Joints 

For medium sized joints allow 2 tablesp black pepper, 1 
tablesp red pepper, 3 tablesp brown sugar, and 1 pt salt. 
Mix thoroughly and apply dry to each joint all that can be 
made to adhere. Take a square of muslin large enough to 
enclose the joint and lay it on the table. Then lay on the 
cloth two or three thicknesses of paper and sprinkle some of 
the mixture on it. Lay the joint on and thoroughly rub the 
remainder of the mixture on, rubbing and stuffing it well into 
the bone end. Wrap the paper closely around the meat, then 
fold the cloth around, sew fast, tie, and hang up in a cool 
place. — [S. K. S. 

Dried Beef 

The round makes the best dried beef. For every 20 lbs 
beef, use 1 pt salt, 1 teasp saltpeter, and % lb sugar. Mix 
well together, divide into three parts, and rub well into the 
meat for three successive days. Keep the beef in a jar and 
turn it over frequently in the liquid, which will fprm of itself. 
After it has soaked in this about a week, hang it up to dry, 
and after that smoke, if liked. When dry, sprinkle with pep- 
per, tie up in paper bags, and hang up in a cool, dry place. — 
[Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Corned Beef 

TTse only the poorer parts for corning, such as brisket, 
flanks, crossribs, and plate, and cut into pieces 6 inches square. 
Fifty lbs meat will reauire 50 lbs salt. Sprinkle a layer of 
salt in the keg or barrel, put in a layer of meat, packing very 
closely, then a layer of salt, then more meat and salt, until 
all is used, leaving just enough salt for a good layer over the 



BEEF PICKLE AND BRINE 295 



top. Let stand over night, then dissolve 1 oz baking soda, 
2 lbs sugar, 2 ozs saltpeter in 2 gals tepid water, and after 
it is cold pour it over the meat. Two gallons should cover 
the 50 lbs meat, if packed right. If not, use the same pro- 
portions in making more. Weight with a board and stone, 
and let stand from 30 to 40 days before using. If kept over 
in hot weather, watch the brine, and if it gets "ropy," pour 
it off, wash the meat, and caver with a new brine. — [P & H. 

Beef Pickle I 

To 1 % lbs salt, add % lb sugar, 1 teasp soda, % teasp salt- 
peter and 1 gal water. This pickle can also be used for sau- 
sage. Be sure to weight down the meat or sausage, so as to 
keep well under the pickle. — [Mrs. C, No address. 

Beef Fickle II 

For 100 lbs beef, use % pk salt, % lb each saltpeter and 
soda, and 1 qt molasses, or 2 lbs brown sugar. Dissolve the 
saltpeter, soda and salt in a little warm water. The meat 
will be ready to use in 10 days. For spiced beef, add mace, 
cloves and allspice to the above pickle. — [Mrs. C, No address. 

Brine for Pork 

For 100 lbs pork allow 10 lbs salt, 3 lbs brown sugar, 2 ozs 
saltpeter, 1 oz cayenne pepper, and 4% or 5 gals water. Let 
boil 5 minutes, skim well, let get perfectly cold, and then pour 
over meat packed in large jars or barrels. Put in a weight 
to keep the meat under the brine, cover the jar and set away 
in a cool place. Meat kept in this way is never rancid and 
flies do not get at it. In the spring draw off the brine, boil it 
again, skim well, let get cold, and pour over the meat again. 
—[Mrs. P. O. B., Mont. 

Sweet Pickle for Pork 

For 100 lbs of side meat or hams allow 8 lbs clean, coarse 
salt, 2 Ibc brown sugar, or 1 qt molasses, 3 ozs soda, 2 ozs salt- 
peter and sufficient water to dissolve these ingredients. .Put 
over the fire and just before it boils, skim well, let It boil up 
once, skim again, and when perfectly cold pour it over the 
meat, packed in a jar or barrel. Weight down so that the 
meat will always be under the brine, cover, and set in a cool 
place. After 5 or 6 weeks lift the sides and hams out of this 
brine, let drain and smoke well with corn cob, hickory or 
maple chips. We have used this recipe for years, and I am 
sure that anyone who will try it will be very well pleased 
with it. — [Mrs. M. J. S., N. H- 



296 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Fickle for Pork Sausage 

For every gal sausage in cases allow 1 cup salt and 1 cup 
brown sugar, thoroughly mixed. Place layers of sausage in 
jars and sprinkle the mixture between each layer. Put a 
stone on top, and if a brine does not form in 3 days, make a 
little cold brine and pour it over. — [Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 

Souse 

Use the head of a hog and any other small parts of the 
animal that are not too fat. Clean the head thoroughly and 
do not spare yourself any pains during this process, to make 
sure that everything is as clean as you can possibly make it. 
Soak in salt water for several hours, then scrape and clean 
again, and then soak once more in salt water for several 
hours, after which put in a kettle, cover with cold water, add 
salt, and boil slowly until the meat will separate from the 
bones, and all the gristle is perfectly soft. Next remove from 
the fire, drain, remove all the bones, and hard gristle from 
the meat and from the liquor. Put a layer of meat and fat, 
distributed evenly, in a stone jar, sprinkle well with salt and 
pepper, and then pour over a generous allowance of hot, boiled 
cider vinegar. Then put in another layer of meat, seasoning, 
and boiled cider vinegar, and so on until the meat is all used, 
or the jar is full to within 3 or 4 inches of the top, topping 
off with salt, pepper and vinegar. Be careful to pack the 
meat firmly and closely together, and to have it covered with 
the vinegar. Boil down liquor in which the meat was cooked 
until there is only a little of it left, being careful not to let 
it burn. Season well with salt and pepper (it should be con- 
siderably more salt than palatable), and when the meat in 
the jar is thoroughly cold, pour this hot, boiled-down liquor 
over the meat, and when all has become cold, cover the jar 
well and store it in a cold place. When wanted for use, 
scrape away a little of the jelly at one side of the jar, cut out 
slices of the souse, and return the displaced jelly, spreading 
it over smoothly. The sliced souse can be fried in hot butter, 
but first drain off the liquid by allowing the souse to stand 
in the pan on the back of the stove a while. This will extract 
the vinegar, and after frying brown in butter, the souse will 
be deliciously crisp. Serve with hot, baked potatoes. — [Mrs. 
N. P., N. H. 

Pickled Pig's Feet 

Soak the feet over night in cold water, remove the toes and 
scrape clean, boil until very tender, and salt before they are 
done. Pack in a stone jar or keg and cover with hot, spiced 
vinegar, using whole cloves, allspice and pepper. Nice eaten 



PICKLED TRIPE AND TONGUE 297 



just so, or heated up in boiling water, or split, rolled in flour, 
and fried a nice brown on both sides in hot fat. Will keep 
indefinitely. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Pickled Tongue I 

Use either beef or pork tongues. Scald, trim, scrape and 
boil until tender, in salted water. When cold, cut in %-inch 
slices, and cover with cold vinegar. Boiled pigs feet are als» 
very nice when pickled in vinegar. — [Mrs. C. B. B., Kan. 

Pickled Tongue 11 

For the brine allow 1 gal water, 3 lbs salt, 4 ozs sugar, 
and 2 ozs saltpeter. Boil and cool, then put in the trimmed 
and cleaned tongues, and weight to keep them under brine. 
Will keep any length of time. When wanted to use, soak 
over night in cold water, boil until tender, skim, remove skin, 
slice, and serve with mustard. Or, if liked pickled, slice 
and cover with spiced vinegar. Will keep after being pickled. 
I — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Pickled Tripe and Beef Tongue 

Clean the tripe thoroughly, cut in pieces, and sprinkle 
lightly with unslacked lime. Roll up each piece separately, 
with the furrowed side inside, place the rolls in a tub and 
pour over enough cold water to cover. Let stand about 10 or 
15 minutes, then lift out the pieces, lay them on a board, 
scrape them well and rinse them clean in cold water, after 
which put them in a tub and cover with a weak brine, allow- 
ing them to remain there about 12 hours. After removing 
from this brine, scald theni with boiling water, scrape them 
again lightly, and again wash in cold water, after which they 
will be ready for pickling. Make a hot spiced vinegar by 
adding 1 teasp each of allspice, cloves and cinnamon, to 1 qt 
vinegar, and % cup sugar. If liked very spicy, % teasp 
cayenne pepper or black pepper may be added. Beef tongue 
should be put in a brine or pickle, the same as that prepared 
for beef, and allowed to remain in there a week, after which 
drain, and either smoke or dry, or put in a prepared spiced 
vinegar, as directed above. — [Mrs. A. C. McP., O. 

To Keep Roast Pork in IJard 

Take pieces of the side meat or any other part without 
bones, salt and pepper to taste, place in a roasting pan in 
a hot oven, and roast till well done, but do not scorch. Whea. 
well done pack the pieces in a stone jar and fill all the spaces 



29 S TARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



between, and cover the top, witli fresh melted lard. Tie heavy 
paper and a cloth over the jar, and set away in a cool, dry 
place. This will keep until warm weather comes. Fresh 
sausage cakes can be kept in the same way. After seasoning 
with salt, pepper and a little sage, mould the sausage meat 
into little cakes about 1 inch thick, fry until well done, 
and pack in a stone jar with melted lard, the same as directed 
above for the roasted meat. — [Mrs. H. L. J., Wash. 

To Keep Beefsteak I 

Mix together equal parts of salt and sugar and half the 
amount of saltpeter. Place a layer of steak in a jar, sprinkle 
with this mixture, and so continue until the jar is full, then 
weight down with an inverted plate and heavy stone. This 
will form a brine of its own, and the meat will keep sweet 
for a long time. Cover well and store in a cool, dark place. — 
[M. D., O. 

To Keep Beefsteak n 

Fry beefsteak as for the table, only be sure it is not the 
least bit rare, then pack it closely in jars and cover well with 
melted lard. Store in a cool place. — [Mrs. B. S., 111. 

Smoked Fig Paunch 

Thoroughly clean a pig paunch or stomach, and boil until 
well done. Take as much lean pork as it will require to fill 
the stomach, chop fine, and cook until partly done, then mix 
with scant % teasp saltpeter, and season with salt, ground 
pepper and cloves, and any other preferred spices to taste. 
Pack into stomach securely, sew up and then return to the 
liquor in which the stomach was boiled, and let boil slowly 
1 hour. Remove from Are and let remain in this liquid over 
night, then drain and smoke 6 days. Hang in a cool, dark, 
airy place. When wanted, cut in thin slices and serve with- 
out cooking. — [Mrs. G. L., N. Y. 

To Try Out Lard or Suet 

Only clear, fat pieces of meat should be salted dojra in the 
pork barrel, and all the thin, streaky pieces of lean and fat 
should be put with the sausage meat. The soft fat should 
be cut in very small pieces and put in a separate kettle, with 
a little water, and set over the fire to try out. The leaf lard 
should be cut up fine and put in another kettle, with a little 
cold water, to try out. While the lard is trying out, stir it 
up often with a long handled spoon or skimmer, and be very 



MAKING HEAD CHEESE 299 

careful that it does not burn or scorch. Stirring it often will 
make the lard try ottt more evenly. When the little pieces 
of lard have shrunk to very small dark brown scraps, strain 
lard through a fine wire sieve into a perfectly dry and clean 
tin pall. For the sake of convenience and to save burning 
my fingers, I hang the sieve through a piece of board cut out 
to fit the sieve. The board should be long enough to fit across 
the top of the pail, and project several inches on either side. 
This little board will not only save your temper, but will 
catch all the scraps that may fall from the top of the strainer, 
and that would otherwise fall into the pail of lard. The 
brown scraps should be turned into a cheese cloth bag and 
while still warm, squeezed between wooden squeezers to t xtract 
any of the lard that is still in them. These squeezers can be 
made of two flat pieces of board about 1% feet long and 5 
or 6 inches wide, joined together at one end with little pieces 
of leather, and the other end whittled for handle. The lard 
squeezed out this way should be put in a separate pail. When 
cold, cover the pails well and store in a cool, dry place. Suet 
is tried out the same way. After the suet is tried out, pour 
it into a pan of ice cold water, and when hard, wipe it dry, 
wrap in white paper, and then put in a linen or close cloth 
bag and hang in a cool, dry place. Excellent for pie crust. — 
[Mrs. N. P., N. H. 

Canned Snet 

Trim and chop suet fine, add salt to taste, and 1 cup molas- 
ses for every cup suet. Can in air-tight jars. This is fine to 
put in cakes or puddings and no other shortening will be 
needed. — [Mrs. K. St. J., N. Y. 

Calf's or Hog's Head CJheese 

Put a large kettle over the fire, almost filled with water, 
ahd let heat to boiling point. You will need a large kettle as 
the calf's head should be almost entirely under water. After 
the butchering, when the animal heat is well out of the head, 
lift it by one ear and hold it in the kettle of boiling water, 
nose down. It will scald in a few minutes, so that with a 
sharp knife you can easily scrape off the hair, leaving the 
head nice and white and clean. Wash thoroughly, then saw 
©ff the nose, just at the corners of the mouth, being careful 
not to saw through the tongue, or to saw on to the teeth. 
With a sharp, pointed knife, take the eyeballs out, first cuttmg 
the muscles around them, then cut off the ears and remove 
the ear drums, and then wash the head again thoroughly and 
rinse in cold water, after which put in a kettle or pail of 
cold water and let it soak over night. For this.head cheese 



300 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



1 also use the heart, liver and lungs or "lights," as the latter 
are called, also the legs, as far as the knee. Carefully trim 
and clean the heart, liver and lungs, and let these soak in cold 
water over night. The legs should he scalded, scraped 
cleaned and washed, and also put to soak in cold water over 
night. Next morning rinse all in clean cold water, and then 
put over the fire in several kettles of cold water to cook, 
adding salt. Cook slowly until the meat drops from the 
hones, then drain, pick out all the bones, and chop or grind 
fine. The tongue should be removed whole, root end cut off 
and difiCarded, the rough skin or coating scraped off, and saved 
for a s-sparate dainty, to be served cold, in slices. After chop- 
ping ail the meat, add enough boiled-down liquid in which the 
meat was cooked, to make the meat very moist. The liquid 
will he jelly-like and will help to make the meat hold together, 
so that it can be easily sliced when cold. Add salt and pep- 
per and a little sage to taste, and while hot turn into molds 
and set away to cool and harden. Cover with melted lard and 
store In a cold place. Hog's head cheese is prepared in the 
same manner, discarding most of the fat. If there seems to 
be too much fat on the liquid left after cooking the head and 
legs, skim the •fat off and use the liquid underneath. Nice 
sliced, rolled in flour, and fried brown on both sides. — [Mrs. 
E. C. W., Me. 

Hog's Head Pudding 

Cut the meat from hog's head, discard the skin, and also 
use the heart, tongue and part of the liver. "Wash all 
thoroughly and scald the tongues to remove the coating. Cook 
until tender, then grind or chop fine and season with salt and 
pepper, after which return to the liquor in which the meat 
was cooked, and when it begins to boil, thicken with buck- 
Wheat flour or cornmeal. Be sure to season just right, and 
have the pudding stiff enough, so it can be cut in slices when 
cold, to fry, like mush. — [Miss A. E. H., Pa. 

Potted Beef, Ham, Tongue or Idver 

Boil either tongue or liver in salted water until very tender 
and put through the meat grinder. Boil down the liquid 
until there is just enough to moisten the meat nicely, being 
careful it Is not too salty. Mix well with the meat, heat, put 
in little Jars, and pour melted suet, lard or butter over the 
top, when cold. Potted ham can be made in the same way. — 
[Farmer's Wife, Col. 

To 1 lb boiled lean ham add % lb ham fat, or if preferred, 
butter, a little cayenne pepper and white pepper, mix all 
together, pound until smooth, press firmly into small jars. 



ABOUT SAUSAGE MAKING 301 



cover with melted butter or lard. seal, and store in a cool 
place. — [I. C, Va. 

Boil beef until it is tender and separate from the bones. 
Then mince the meat fine, season to taste, and pack down, 
solidly in small close jars, topping off with melted suet. Cover 
and store in a cool place. — [Mrs. E. R. W., Va. 

Sausage Casings 

Casings can be made from the intestines of beef, hogs, or 
sheep, the sheep casings being used for small sausage, like 
wiener-wurst, and hog casings for link sausages, and beef 
for bologna sausage, ham sausage, and blood sausage. 
Empty as soon as possible, turn inside out and scrape and 
clean first the in and then the outside. The cleaning is easy 
where one has running water. Soak 24 hours in lime water 
or lye water, turn, scrape and rinse again, then salt down and 
use when needed. When one cannot clean the casings, good 
substitutes can be made by stitching up tubes of new 
unbleached muslin, 1% or 2 feet long, and 2 or 3 inches in 
diameter, when filled. When ready to hang away, rub the 
outside well with melted lard, to exclude all air, and sprinkle 
with pepper. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Uses for Bladders 

Wash, scrape and clean thoroughly, soak in salt water, 
rinse, and then inflate and tie them. When making preserves, 
cut ofC pieces large enough to cover the mouths of the jars, 
pour boiling water over the bladder pieces, then stretch them 
tightly over the jars and tie securely. These are equal to self- 
sealing, air-tight cans. Bladders are also useful to keep sau- 
sage meat. Stuff full of the sausage meat, tie securely and 
smoke, — [B. ,M. R., Va. 

Filling Sausage 

Sausage meat should be finely ground, as it keeps and holds 
together better. Beef alone, or pork alone can be used, but 
better two-thirds fat and lean pork, and one-third beef. Vary 
the seasoning by using pepper, onions, sage, nutmeg, or cloves 
• — ^the latter two are not very common. For filling the skins 
a piece of bone 2 or 3 inches long is most serviceable, but a 
piece of tin, shaped into a funnel, smallest end a trifle smaller 
than skins, will do very nicely. Insert this funnel into one 
end, hold in left hand, and proceed to fill, using the thumb to 
force the meat down. Prick the casings often with a hatpin, 
to let out any air. To have a change make some with cooked 
barley and some with potato (raw), finely chopped or ground. 
Use the proportion of % of barley or potatoes. This is fine. — < 
[Farmer's Wife. Col. 



302 ^FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

a__ . . 

Liver Sansage I 

Boil liver till done, chop, season with black and red pepper, 
sage and salt, and pack in casings or long narrow muslin 
bags, and hang up to dry. Smoke with sassafras chips.— > 
[No Name. 

liiver Sausage II 

Boil the liver and heart until tender. Chop very fine, sea- 
son to taste with salt and pepper. Add some clean currants, 
if liked, mix well, and fill into casings. Should be fried brown 
and served hot. — [Mrs. G. L., N. Y. 

Liver Sausage III 

Boil a pig's liver 10 minutes, then grind or chop fine and 
add twice as much cooked lean pork, and % lb fresh bacon, 
also ground or chopped. Season to taste with salt and ground 
pepper, cloves and nutmeg. Fill into casings, leaving about 
2 inches space in each sausage unfilled, as the liver swells. 
Boil the sausages Vz hour in salted water, then put them in 
cold water 10 minutes, after which they may be smoked or 
hung in a cool place to dry. — [Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 

Kidney, Heart and Liver Sausage 

Split the kidneys and soak them In strong salt water, 
changing the water several times, then wash thoroughly and 
put them in a large kettle with the heart and liver, bits of 
pork rind, and scraps of lean pork. Cover with water and 
boil until tender. The liver must be lifted out after boiling 
10 or 15 minutes, as it does not require such long boiling 
as the rest. When the meat is all tender run through a sau- 
sage grinder, season with salt, pepper and a little thyme, pack 
into crocks, and set the crocks on the back of the range until 
they are hot. This helps to pack the meat more solidly. 
Cover with melted lard and set away in a cool place. — [Mrs 
E. S., 111. 

Mixed Sausage 

This can be made of almost any proportion of beef and 
pork one has when both are killed at once, but is nice made 
in the proportions of 2 lbs lean pork, 1 lb lean beef, and 1 lb 
fat pork. This should be ground and seasoned the same as 
pork sausage, and kept in the same way, In casings, or jars 
with lard run over. It is better to use several small jars than 
one large one. — [Farmer's Wife. Col. 



FOUR SAUSAGE RECIPES 303 

Bologna Sausage I 

Chop very fine 6 lbs lean beef, 1 lb salt pork, 3 lbs lean 
fresh pork and 1 lb beef suet. Mix well, then add 1 oz ground 
■white pepper, 1 teasp ground mace, 3 ozs salt, % teasp cay- 
enne pepper, and 1 large onion, chopped very fine. Mix well 
then fill into casings, or muslin bags. Make a strong brine 
that will float an egg, put the sausage in this, and let remain 2 
weeks, turning and skimming every day. At the end of the 
first week, throw away old brine, and put the sausage in a 
new brine for the second week, then take out, drain and smoke 
for a week. After smoking, rub over the outside thoroughly 
with melted lard, and if you wish to keep the sausage for any 
length of time, sprinkle outside liberally with pepper, after 
rubbing with lard. Hang in a cool, dry and dark place. — 
[Mrs. F. E. A., Wash. 

Bologna Sausage n 

Chop or grind very fine 50 lbs beef, add 3 lbs sugar, 8 ozs 
pepper, 2% ozs saltpeter and 2% pts salt. Mix the dry 
ingredients thoroughly, then mix thoroughly with the meat and 
fill into casings or thin muslin bags about 4 inches wide and 
12 inches long. Bo not put these sausages into brine, but 
smoke them until thoroughly dry. — [Mrs. C, no address. 

Bologna Sausage ni 

Use trimmings of fat and lean portions of pork, taking 
care to have twice as much lean as fat. After trimming and 
cutting, weigh the pork and add % its weight of lean beef. 
Chop or grind fine and then season with 2% lbs salt and 10 
ozs ground pepper for each 100 lbs ground meat. A little sage 
or thyme may also( be added, if liked. Mix thoroughly and 
let stand in a cool place about 24 hours, after which fill into 
casings and fry down in hot lard. Put into crocks and cover 
with hot lard, and store in a cool place. — [Mrs. E. S., 111. 

Bologna Sausage IV 

Add 1 lb fat pork or fat bacon to each 10 lbs lean beef, 
and grind fine. Season with 1 oz black pepper, % oz fine 
salt, and a little ground coriander seed to each 6 lbs meat. 
Stuff in beef casings, making 1 foot long for the large cas- 
ings, or 15 inches for the small ones, tying the small ones 
together and letting the large ones hang straight. Smoke 
12 hours, then boll until they float on the water. Lay on 
clean hay in the sun until dry, and then hang away in a cool 
{tlaee. — IFarmer's Wife, Col, 



304 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

To Prepare Casings for Sausage 

Select the best of the beef casings, empty and wash them 
thoroughly, then throw them into a strong brine and let them 
soak several hours, after which rinse them thoroughly in 
fresh water, turn them, lay them on a smooth board and 
scrape them clean with the back of a knife. Kinse and soak 
in salt water again, then give them another scraping and 
wash again, and do not rest satisfied until you are positive 
they are perfectly clean. After they have been thus treated, 
put them in salt water, changing water frequently, until you 
are ready to use the casings. I think that sausages packed 
into these casings with a sausage stuffer are much better than 
sausages packed in muslin bags. — [E. S., III. 



Scrapple I 

Cook until tender, hogs' livers, hearts, and scraps of lean 
meat. Salt to taste, and when done, remove the meat, boil 
the liquid a little longer, and then thicken with cornmeal 
until it is a thin mush. Let this cook well, and then add the 
meat, minced fine, and salt, pepper and sage to taste. Pour 
into pans to cool, and when wanted, slice and fry until brown 
on both sides.- — [Mrs. F. L., Iowa. 

Scrapple II 

Clean and cut up one hog's head and remove all skin and 
larger bones. Let soak in salt water over night, and next 
morning wash again and put over the fire in cold water enough 
to cover. Cook slowly until the bones separate from the meat, 
then drain, pick out all the bones and hard gristle, and chop 
or grind the meat fine. Strain the liquor and return it with 
the ground meat to the kettle, season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and when it begins to boil, stir in, slowly, enough 
cornmeal to thicken, adding some white flour to make it 
hold together. Stir constantly until done, then spread out in 
pans, and when cold cut in slices and fry brown on both sides. 
By running melted lard over it. It can be kept a long while. 
— [Mrs. F. G. F.. O. 

Mince Meat, Canned 

I always make mince meat during the butchering season. 
To 8 lbs meat, (either pork or beef, or both mixed) boiled and 
chopped fine, add 6 lbs cleaned currants, 6 lbs seedless raisins, 
4 lbs suet, 2 lbs citron, 20 lbs raw apples, all chopped fine, 
12 lbs sugar, 2 gals boiled cider, 12 tablesp cinnamon, 8 



PIG AND CALF'S FOOT JELLY 305 

tablesp mace and 4 tablesp each, of allspice, salt and grated 
nutmeg. Put the cider in a large kettle, let it come to a boil, 
and then put in the other ingredients, well mixed together 
and boil 1 hour, stirring frequently. Can while hot, in air- 
tight jars, with a layer of melted lard or suet on top. If all 
the usual canning precautions were observed, mince meat 
canned in this way will keep indefinitely. — [Mrs. M. M., Kan. 

Calf's Foot Broth and Jelly 

Clean and scald the feet, cut up, cover with water, and boil 
until the liquid is reduced to one-quarter. Season to taste, 
thicken with 1 beaten egg, and serve plain, or with a few 
homemade noodles boiled in it. For jelly, boil the liquid 
down to 3 pts salt, then strain and let get cool, after which 
remove the layer of fat, re-heat the jelly, and add 1 cup 
sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, the whites of 2 eggs, small pieces 
of stick cinnamon, and about % pt good wine, if liked, and 
intended as nourishment for an invalid, although the latter 
may be omitted. Strain through a cloth and set away to get 
solid. Serve cut in small cubes. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 

Pig's Feet Jelly 

Clean and boil pig's feet till well done, without salt. Strain, 
and to 1 qt liquor add 1 pt sugar, and flavor to taste. Boil 
skim and pour in molds. Serve with cream. — [F & H. 

Pig's Feet Cheese 

Clean feet, boil till hones fall out, remove bones, add a few 
bay leaves, 2 slices lemon, 2 cups vinegar, a few cloves, and 
salt to taste. Cook until tender, then pour into a mold to 
cool. Serve in thin slices. — [F & H. 

To Cook an Ox Cheek 

Split the head in halves, remove tongue, brain and eyes and 
wash first in salt water and afterward in 2 or 3 fresh waters. 
When clean put into a saucepan of cold water, add salt, and 
let boil 4 hours. When it has been boiling about 2 hours add 
potatoes, onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, according to 
taste. Cooked in this way the liquor makes a nice soup, and 
the meat taken from the bone and served with a little of the 
soup for gravy, makes a tender and savory dish for the first 
day's dinner. The soup is better served next day. If there 
should be any small pieces of the meat left from the dinner, 
they may be cut up with 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, sprinkled 
With a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put into a mold, and 
turned out for breakfast, luncheon or supper. — [F & H. 



306 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Fried or Scrambled Brains 

Soak the brain in salt water over night, remove the thin 
skin, slice once, roll in flour, and fry brown on both sides in 
hot lard or butter. For scrambled brains, soak in salt water 
over night, after which the skin can be removed easily. Put 
about 1 tablesp butter in a skillet and when hot put in the 
brains, stirring constantly, until almost dry, then add 2 beaten 
eggs, and stir constantly until firm, adding salt to taste. Serve 
hot — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 

Odds and Ends 

When a beef is bjitchered, take some of the choice boneless 
parts, salt them down thoroughly, and then hang up and 
smoke, the same as bacon. — [Mrs. D. H. H., Ida. 

Clean all the lumps of clotted blood out of the heart, boil 
till tender, add scraps of meat to make a rich gravy, and 
when tender stuff with a dressing made as for roast turkey. 
Bake till brown and serve with gravy made of the liquor it 
xras boiled in. 

Soak the blood out of the liver, boil till it crumbles, mix 
with equal quantity cornmeal mush, season with salt, sage 
and pepper, and pack in a cloth till cold, when it can be 
moulded in cakes, rolled in meal, and fried like sausage. 
They are nice to eat cold for lunch. 

Brains and sweetbreads are nice dipped in egg, rolled in 
«racker crumbs and fried in hot lard. Clean the stomach, 
soak In salt water over night, boil until tender, cut in strips, 
and pickle in hot spiced vinegar. Some people are fond of 
the tripe, and also the kidneys, stewed or deviled. 

When dry curing meat, after rubbing the dry mixture well 
into the meat, over rind and all, take a sharp stick and crowd 
some of the curing mixture down the bone of the joints, as 
far as possible. This makes the curing process more thorough, 
as meat always begins to spoil first around the bones. — [Mrs. 
E. S. D., Wash. 

When the meat is ready to hang up, wash it in water as hot 
as you can bear your hands in, then carefully cover the flesh 
sides with powdered borax, and you will not be troubled with 
bugs, skippers or worms. — [N. L., Tenn. (Note — This method, 
while efeective, is evidently not considered healthful by our 
government, since state and national pure food laws prohibit 
the sale of meat thus prepared. — ^Editor.) 




ealinapy and Medicinal Herbs 

OOD housewives can in no way better fur- 
ther their reputations as good cooks than in 
the judicious use of herbs, the use or omis- 
sion of which makes all the difference 
between highly palatable and savory 
dishes, and tasteless and insipid ones. Food 
pleasing to the taste is more readily digested, 
and more perfectly assimilated, so that, in reality, more nour- 
ishment is derived from it than from food lacking in fine fla- 
vor, which does not stimulate the flow of saliva and the 
gastric juice, so essential to perfect digestion. Hence we may 
well say that the culinary herbs promote good health, as 
well as contribute to the pleasure of eating, while a number 
of other varieties are held in high repute as domestic med- 
icines in cases of slight ailments when home doctoring is 
sufficient. As the pot herbs are in daily demand for flavor- 
ing soups, gravies, stews, meat-sauces and dressings, and the 
medicinal herbs may at any time be called upon to avert a 
physician's visit, the provident will never allow winter to 
find them without a goodly supply of all the varieties, dried. 

A Good Xaxieiy 

The seasoning herbs in most constant use are summer 
savory, thyme, sage, sweet marjoram and parsley, while 
coriander, caraway, sweet basil, spearmint, tarragon, dill, and 
a number of others are grown for special uses. The medicinal 
herbs most often employed are catnip, peppermint, sage, saf- 
fron, horehound and hops. With the exception of peppermint, 
tarragon and hop seed, and the roots of sage, the seed of 
all the herbs may be had at a uniform price of 5 cents per 
packet, and as a majority of the varieties are perennial, it 
will readily be seen how slight is the expense of maintaining 
an herb bed. And even this may be reduced, if the family 
is very small, by buying a 10-cent package of all the varie- 
ties, mixed. The ground space required is very small. 

307 



308 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

General Cultural Dii-ections 

With a few exceptions, to be specially noted, the culture 
of all is the same. Few require a rich soil, and the majority- 
are stronger and better flavored if grown on decidedly poor 
soil. All will thrive on a sandy soil. As the seeds are 
small, the soil should be made very fine, and be firmly 
pressed over the seed. The young plants, when started, 
should be given thorough and frequent cultivation, as, being 
rather small and slow growing, they are easily choked out by 
weeds, until well started. The seed may be sown in the 
permanent bed as early in the spring as the ground can be 
worked, or may be sown in the house early in April, and the 
young plants transplanted in June. When sown outdoors, the 
plants should be thinned to give plenty of room in the row 
■when well started, and the rows be from 12 to 18 inches apart. 

Guringi 

All the varieties cultivated for their leaves, stems or blos- 
soms should be cut when in flower, wilted in the sun, then 
quickly and thoroughly dried in the shade, in a current of 
air or a very cool oven, protecting carefully from dust and 
flies. The few varieties cultivated for the seeds must be 
allowed to mature and the seeds be gathered before they 
shatter oft. 

Proportions 

The most convenient way of preparing what are termed 
"pot-herbs," viz: summer savory, sage, thyme, bay leaves and 
sweet marjoram, is to strip off the dried leaves and blossoms, 
cut or break them and the stems into tiny bits, and mix 
thoroughly, using equal quantities of each herb. Keep In 
a closely covered can or jar, and allow 1 teasp of the mixture 
to each qt of material to be seasoned. By the term "a 
bouquet of herbs," is meant two leaves of each of the above 
varieties, wrapped with a sprig of parsley and tied for ease 
in removal. The broken mixed herbs should be tied in a bit 
of cheesecloth to make their removal from soups or gravies 
easy. 

Medicinal Herbs 

The medicinal herbs are most commonly employed in the 
form of herb teas. When long boiling is required to extract 
tlie medicinal properties, the tea is termed a decoction, but 
an infusion is sufficient to extract the strength from the 
majority of the herbs. This is made by pouring boiling water 
over the herb and standing the dish where it will keep 
tot. without boiling, for 10 minutes or longer. For a decoc- 



CULINARY AND MEDICINAL HERBS 309 



tion of herbs of good strength, allow 1 oz of the dried herbs 
to each pt of water. Cover closely while boiling and admin- 
ister 1 to 2 tablesp as a dose to an adult. In making an 
infusion, which is generally meant by the term "tea," allow 
1 oz of the dried herb to 1 qt of water, or for smaller quan- 
tities, 1 tablesp of the herb to 1 cup of water. In using 
green herbs, allowance must be made for the shrinkage in 
bulk, or the loss in weight, through drying, and a propor- 
tionately larger quantity of herbs to water be allowed. An 
infusion may be drank freely, and either a decoction or an 
infusion may be made more palatable by sweetening. 

Doses 

The dose for a child of twelve is usually one-half the 
adult dose; for a child of six, one-fourth the adult dose; for 
a child of one year, one-twelfth the adult dose; and at six 
months of age, from one-twentieth to one-thirtieth the adult 
dose, and proportionate amounts for intermediate ages. 

Anise 

An annual, culivated for its seeds, which are used in flavor- 
ing cordials, soft drinks, cakes and cookies, and also for 
relieving ilatulent colic in infants, intestinal pain, and the 
griping caused by cathartics. The infusion (1 teasp seed to 
% pt water), may be given freely. The leaves are msed as 
a garnish. 

Balm 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for its leaves, which are used 
green in making balm wine, and either green or dried in 
making balm tea, a refreshing drink in fevers, and useful also 
3s a tonic, having a taste and fragrance resembling lemons. 
May be grown from seeds, roots, or cuttings of the ySung 
shoots. Best suited by a poor but friable soil. Cut for drying 
when in flower. 

Sweet Basil 

An annual, cultivated for its leaves and the tops of the 
shoots, which are used in seasoning soups, stews and sauces, 
the flavor resembling that of cloves, for which it is an inex- 
pensive substitute. The young leaves are sometimes used in 
salads in small quantities. Best suited with mellow, fertile 
soil aRd warm exposure. Plant indoors in April and trans- 
plant when danger of frost is over. Cut for drying when 
in flower. 

Bay licaves 

The lea-^es of the bay tree, a species of laurel, extensively 
used in seasoning, may be purchased at a nominal price where 
not native. 



310 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Borage 

A hardy annual, self-seeding. Used only In the green statei 
The flowers are aromatic, and are used in flavoring cool 
drinks and as a garnish. The leaves are used uncooked in 
cucumber salad, and are also cooked as spinach. The bruised 
leaves in water make a pleasant drink. 

Caraway 

A perennial that runs out in about four years. Cultivated 
for the seeds which are used in cakes and confectionery. The 
leaves are sometimes used in flavoring soups. Sown in the 
spring, it will not seed until the following year, but if sown 
early in August it will give a fair crop of seed the next 
season. 

Catnip 

A hardy perennial, deservedly popular as a domestic remedy. 
May be sown in fall or early spring, and should be cut when 
In flower. Leaves, stems and blossoms are used in making the 
infusion, which may be drank freely. The hot infusion is a 
valuable aid in inducing perspiration (which leads to sleep) 
in fevers; useful also in the treatment of colds; gives relief in 
nervous headache; allays flatulent colic in infants, and exerts 
a quieting influence on their nerves. A poultice made from the 
leaves soothes painful swellings and gives relief as a hot 
fomentation in severe pain or inflammation. 

Coriander 

A hardy annual; cultivated for its seed, which is used in 
disguising the taste of medicine, in confectionery and in flavor- 
ing bologna sausage. The leaves are useful as a garnish. 
Thrives best in dry soil and matures early. 

Dandelion 

A hardy, perennial that, where not abundant as a weed, 
may be cultivated. The leaves are much liked as spring 
greens, and are sometimes tied up and blanched for use in 
salads as endive is used, which it much resembles. The 
roots possess valuable medicinal properties, both as a diuretic 
and for their action on the liver. A decoction made by 
boiling the bruised roots slowly until all the strength is 
extracted is a valuable remedy for children (or adults) suf- 
fering from loss of appetite and listlessness, arising from a 
torpid or disordered liver. Physicians recommend from % 
to 1 pt of the decoction per day, to be taken for dropsical 



DILL, HOPS AND HOREHOUND 311 

affections. The roots dried and roasted are sometimes 
employed as a coffee substitute, and have a beneficial effect on 
the system. The seed stalks should be plucked before they 
ripen, or the seed will be blown broadcast, and the resultant 
plants become a nuisance, almost impossible to eradicate. 

DiU 

An annual, requiring a rich, dry soil. Cultivated for its 
seeds and leaves, both of which are added to cucumbers in 
making dill pickles. The leaves are sometimes used like pars- 
ley in soups and sauces. An infusion of the seeds is useful 
in allaying flatulence and colic in infants. 

Sweet Fennel 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the leaves and seed. The 
leaves make a beautiful garnish, and are also used in salads. 
Boiled they enter into many fish sauces, and are used in flavor- 
ing soups. The stalks are sometimes blanched and eaten like 
celery. The seed is used in confectionery, cake and for flavor- 
ing soft drinks. It Is also used medicinally, in an infusion 
(1 teasp to 14 pt water), for the relief of flatulent colic in 
infants and griping Intestinal pains. 



Hops X 



May be propagated from seed or roots, and thrives under 
general culture. Cultivated for the blossoms, which have 
many medicinal properties. An infusion of the blossoms gives 
relief in nervous headache, and is an excellent remedy for 
wakefulness, that may be employed when an opiate could 
not be. From 2 to 8 tablesp of the infusion may be given 
at intervals of % hour until relief is obtained. A bag 
of the blossoms, sprinkled with alcohol or whiskey, and used 
as a pillow, relieves pain by dulling the sensibilities of the 
nerves, and is much to be preferred in home doctoring to 
the administering of opiates. A poultice of wet hops, applied 
hot in sacks, is a valuable fomentation in inflammation of 
the bowels, lungs, and similar affections. The infusion is used 
in making homemade yeast, and fermented summer drinks. 

Horehonnd 

A perennial, strongest when grown on light, poor soil. A 
decoction of stems, leaves and blossoms is employed largely 
in homemade cough syrups and lozenges. It is valuable also 
as a tonic, and in the treatment of pulmonary complaints. 
Cut for curing when in bloom. 



312 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

liavender 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the delightful odor It 
Imparts to clothes drawers and linen closets. Cut when in 
blossom and dry quickly. 

Sweet Marjoram 

A perennial in warm climates, but an annual in the north' 
em states. A favorite pot herb, cultivated for the leaves and 
tender tops, which are equally good either green or dried, 
for seasoning purposes. The variety known as pot marjoram 
differs from the sweet marjoram only in being a hardy peren- 
nial, rather less fragrant. It is used for the same purposes. 

Peppermint 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for Its stems, leaves and blos- 
soms and cut for curing when in flower. The hot infusion 
may be drank freely, and acts as a powerful stimulant. It 
is unexcelled for relieving flatulent colic in infants, intestinal 
pain, or the griping caused by cathartics. It may be admIn-> 
Istered freely in the treatment of nervous hysteria and spasms. 
The leaves and blossoms are used in flavoring cordials and 
cool drinks, and in disguising the taste of medicine. 

Spearmint 

This Is a closely related perennial that may be used medic- 
inally for the same purposes as peppermint, but is much in- 
ferior. It is in demand for making mint sauce (for lamb), 
and may be propagated from seed or roots. 

Rosemary 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the leaves and tender tops. 
The leaves are sometimes used in seasoning, and an Infusion 
of the tops only is efficacious in the treatment of nervous 
headache and chlorosis. The dried plant loses its strength 
rapidly with age. 

Bne 

A hardy perennial, that does best on poor soil. It must not 
be allowed to go to seed. An infusion of the leaves is a 
powerful tonic, stimulant and anti-spasmodic, useful in ner- 
vous complaints, but not to be recommended for use by the 
inexperienced, as serious results follow its too liberal use. 
The leaves are so acrid as to blister the skin. 



SAFFRON, SAGE AND SORREL 313 

Saffron 

A hardy annual, cultivated for its flowers, which are used 
fresh or dried in coloring soups, cakes, confectionery, icings, 
etc. Also used for dying cloth and Easter eggs. An infu- 
sion of the flowers is given to induce sweating. Also some- 
times used to whiten the skin of infants. 

Sage jC- 

A hardy perennial, more extensively used in seasoning thaa 
any other herb. May be grown from seeds «r from division 
of the roots, the best plants resulting fiom the latter method. 
Pick the leaves and tender shoots for curing just as the plants 
are coming into flower. Does best on a very rich soil, with 
frequent cultivation. Indispensable for flavoring dressings, 
sausage and for seasoning in general. Sage tea is an excel- 
lent domestic remedy for worms, and is best made with an 
equal quantity of senna leaves, the senna acting as a cathartic 
to expel the dead worms. Use 1 tablesp of each to 1 cup of 
water, and drink freely, until it acts as a cathartic. The hot 
infusion may be taken freely to induce perspiration. 

Sorrel A 

Hardy perennial, used in the green state only. The leaves 
are sometimes cooked like spinach, and are occasionally used 
in soups and salads. The leaves, like rhubarb, contain much 
oxalic acid, beneficial to the system in spring. A pleasant 
drink is made by bruising the leaves and letting them stand 
in cold water, sweetening to taste; improved by burying the 
jug in cool earth for a day or more. Makes a cooling drink 
in fevers, and also acts as a diuretic and antiseptic in chronic 
urinary affections. A salve may be made by expressing the 
juice and evaporating it in the sun until of the proper con- 
sistency. Physicians esteem this highly in the treatment of 
cancer. 

Snnmier Savory 

A hardy annual, cultivated for its stems, leaves and flowers, 
■which are extensively used for flavoring, particularly in soups 
and dressings. Cut for curing when in flower. Winter savory 
differs from summer savory only in being a hardy perennial. 
Is used the same. 

Thyme 

A perennial, cultivated for its leaves and tops, which are 
used extensively for flavoring soups, sauces and dressings. Cut 
for winter use when in flower. An infusion of the leaves is 
efScacious in allaying nervous headache. May be drank freely* 



314 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Parsley 

A slowly germinating annual that requires a rich, mellow 
soil. Seed should be sown very early in spring or late the 
preceding fall. All the leaves should be cut ofiE as often as 
they reach a hight of 3 inches, each new growth being brighter 
and better curled than its predecessor. These cuttings may be 
dried for winter use, but the plants if taken up in fall will 
continue to grow indoors over winter. The green leaves are 
the most indispensable of the garnishes, and the leaves, green 
or dried, are a favorite seasoning herb in universal use. The 
finely minced leaves are much used in sauces for boiled flsh 
or fowl (2 tablesp to 1 pt of sauce), as a seasoning in cro- 
quettes, many entrees, and the larger number of "made" 
dishes of fish, flesh or fowl. The dried leaves powder easily, 
and for ease in chopping the fresh leaves they should be 
dipped in boiling water and dried on a cloth. Clipping with 
the scissors is the most convenient and quickest way of minc- 
ing them. Nursing mothers esteem a poultice made of the 
fresh leaves, covering the breasts and renewed as often as 
they fade, very helpful in dispersing the milk when wean- 
ing their babies. It also has laxative properties if eaten 
freely. 

Wormwood 

nardy perennial that does best on dry and very poor soil.' 
May be propagated by seeds, division of the roots or cuttings. 
Cultivated for the leaves, which may be used fresh or dried. 
The infusion is a valuable tonic and vermifuge, but has an 
Intensely bitter taste. It should be planted in poultry yards 
for its beneficial efEect upon the poultry. They will pick and 
€at the fresh leaves when in need of a tonic. — [Mrs. A. 
B., Col. 

Bene 

An annual, cultivated commercially for the oil of the 
seed. An infusion of the leaves is beneficial in the treatment 
of dysentery, and for this purpose the leaves are cut when 
the plant is in flower. 

Cnmin 

An annual, cultivated for its seed, which is used for the 
same purposes as caraway seed and also for flavoring cheese. 

Carragon 

A perennial usually propagated from roots. The leaves are 
used for flavoring vinegar. 




"ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL/ 



Take Heed, Ye Cooks! 

Full many a question is solved by digestion; 

Bad morals are caused oftentimes by bad cooks. 
And many a riot results from poor diet ; 

Conversion does lie in the leaves of cook books. 



The Greatest Woman. 



At a gathering of a large number of club women, the 
question was asked: "Who may rightly be considered the 
greatest woman in history?" There were many answers, 
but the one which was awarded the prize was this : "The 
wife of a man of moderate means, who does her own cook- 
ing, washing and ironing, brings up a family of girls and 
boys to be useful members of society, and finds time for 
her own intellectual and moral improvement, is the great' 
est woman in all history." 



"Many waters cannot quench love" — but an incompetent 
cook can cripple it mighty quickly. 



There never was an angel who wouldn't take off her 
wings and cook for the man she loved. 




GABBLE. GABBLE, GABBLE. GABBLE! 



Index 



Page 

Bread, Bolls and Buns , 11 

Baking 14 

Baking powder 17 

Barley bread 22 

Brown bread 22, 23 

Bran bread 23 

Bran rolls 27 

Buns, plain and sweet. ... 28 

Bretzeln, sweet or salt. . 29 

Buttermilk rolls 27 

Currant bread 23 

Cornmeal bread 24 

Cinnamon rolls 27 

Entire wheat bread 20 

Flour, the 12 

French roUs 27 

Graham bread 20, 21 

German bread 25 

Graham rolls 27 

Hominy bread 23 

Ingredients of 11 

Kneading 13 

Mush bread 23 

Oatmeal bread 21, 22 

Pumpkin bread 23 

Potato rolls 28 

Rye bread 21 

Rusks 23, 29 

Salt rising 18 

Salt rising bread 19 

Steaming bread 19 

Sweet bread 25 

Scotch bread 25 

Swedish bread 25 

Sticks or braids, bread. . 26 

Squash rolls 27 

Swieback 29 

Tea rolls 26 

White bread 17, 18 

Yeast 14, 15, 16 

Cakes, Fillings and Frostings 33 

Angel-food cake 36 

Apple cake, dried 37 

Baking directions 31, 35 

Brown cake 38 

Butterless cakes ..43, 44, 45 

Chocolate cake 39 

Coffee cakes 48, 51 

Devil's food 50 

Bggless cakes . — 40, 41, 42 

Farmers' cake 36 

Fruit cakes ...39, 40, 45, 47 

Feather cake 49 

315 



Page 
Fillings and frostings 

52, 53, 54 

Graham cake 39, 41 

Gingerbread ...42, 43, 45, 46 

Jam cakes 38, 40 

Layer cakes 39, 50 

Marble cakes 49, 59 

Nut cakes 39, 43, 48 

Pound cakes 

37, 40, 44, 49, 50. 51 

Pork cake 42 

Sponge cakes ....44, 46. 47 

Spice cakes 44, 46, 50 

Wedding cake 36 

Cookies, Crackers and Small 

Cakes 55 

Brown cookies 06 

Butter cookies 58 

Chocolate cookies 55 

Cream cakes 61 

Cream puffs 62 

Cup cakes 62 

Crackers 63, 64 

Drops 61 

Sggless cookies 57, 58 

Graham cookies 55 

Ginger cookies 56 

Jumbles 59 

Lady fingers 62, 63 

Molasses cookies 56, 57 

Macaroons 59 

Nut cookies 58 

Oatmeal cookies 59 

Oatmeal cakes 62 

Rocks 60 

Snaps 60 

Wafers 64, 65 

Pies and Shortcakes 66 

Apple pie 72, 73 

Banana pie 71 

Crusts .'. . . 66, 67, 68 

Cranberry pie 70 

Cherry pie 71 

Custard pie Ti 

Cocoanut pie 73 

Cream pie 73 

Chocolate pie 73 

Carrot pie 75 

Cheese pie 76 

Cheese straws and patties 81 

Elderberry pie 70 



316 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Page 

Fried pies 76 

Fruit rolls 80, 81 

Lemon pies 69, 70 

Mince meat 68, 6a 

Puff paste 67 

Pineapple pie 70 

Pumpkin pie 75 

Peach pie 77 

Rhubarb pie 71 

Rice pie 76 

Raspberry pie 77 

Squash pie 74 

Sweet potato pie 75 

Shortcakes 78, 79 

Sauces for shortcakes 80 

Tomato pie 75 

Tarts 82 

Dongrlinnts, Oriadlecakes and 

Fritters 85 

Apple fritters 93 

Bread pancakes 88 

Banana pancakes 90 

Buckwheat cakes 90 

Bread fritters 92 

Batters 94, 95 

Cornmeal pancakes 88 

Cornmeal griddlecakes . . 91 

Corn pone 92 

Corn fritters 92 

Doughnuts 85, 86, 87 

Fried cakes 87 

Oatmeal fritters 92 

Oyster fritters 93, 94 

Puffs 87, 88 

Potato pancakes 89 

Potato fritters 94 

Parsnip fritters 94 

Rye pancakes 89 

Rice or hominy griddle- 
cakes 91 

Salmon fritters 94 

Tomato pancakes 90 

Tomato fritters 94 

Wheat pancakes 89 

BlBcnlts, Uatans and Dnmp- 

lings 97 

Baking powder biscuits. . 97 

Bran biscuits 98 

Beaten (Maryland) bis- 
cuits 100 

Buns 101 

Buckwheat cakes .... 105, 106 

Drop biscuits 97 

Dodgers 104 

Dumplings, bread ...106, 107 

Dumplings, meat 107 

Dumplings, fruit 108 

Egg biscuits 98 

Graham biscuits 98 



Faga 

Gems 103, 104 

Ginger biscuits 99 

Johnny cake 105 

Light biscuits 99 

Mush biscuits 100 

Muffins 101, 102,103 

Popovers 105 

Puffs 105 

Raised biscuits 100 

Soda biscuits 97 

Scotch biscuits 99 

Sweet biscuits 99 

Squash biscuits 101 

Scones 105 

Waffles 106 

Poddiners, Custards and 

Sances Ill 

Apple puddings and rolls 

111, 112 

Brown betty 112 

Banana pudding 114 

Blackberry pudding 116 

Bread pudding 121 

Biscuit pudding 122 

Cherry pudding 115 

Currant pudding 115 

Cranberry pudding 115 

Christmas pudding 115' 

Cornstarch pudding 120 

Cottage puddings 122 

Chocolate pudding 122 

Cracker pudding 122 

Carrot pudding 123 

Corn pudding 124 

Custards 125 

Fig and date puddings . . 114 

Fruit puddings 117 

Graham pudding 119 

Indian (cornmeal) pud- 
dings 118, 119 

Lemon puddings 113 

Nut puddings 125 

Orange pudding 113 

Oatmeal pudding 120 

Peach pudding 113 

Prune puddings 114 

Plum puddings 117 

Potato puddings ....122, 123 

Pumpkin pudding 123 

PufC pudding 125 

Rhubarb puddings 115 

Rice puddings 119, 1 20 

Suet puddings 116 

Sago puddings 120 

Snow pudding 123 

Sauces 126, 127, 128 

Tapioca puddings 118 

"Vegetable puddings 124 

Sonps, Stews and Chowders 131 
Asparagus soup 135 



INDEX 



317, 



Page 

Bean soups 133, 134 

Beef soup 136 

Beef stew 139 

Corn soup 134 

Cabbage soup 134 

Celery soup 135 

Carrot soup 135 

Chicken soup 137 

Croutons for soup 139 

Clam chowder (mock) . . 141 

Corn chowder 141 

Egg chowder 141 

Fruit soup 138 

liiver stew 139 

Mutton soup 136 

Milk soup 137, 138 

Noodles for soup ..138, 139 

Onion soup 134 

Oatmeal soup 138 

Potato soups 132,133 

Pea soup 133 

Peanut soup 138 

Pork stew 140 

Picnic stew 141 

Potato chowder 141 

Rutabaga soup 135 

Tomato soups 132 

Vegetable soups 131, 132 

Veal soup 136 

VUh, SheTl TiBh. and Cms- 

taceans 143 

Codfish ways 145, 146 

Crabs and lobsters 154 

Fish, to can 143 

Fish, to salt and smoke. . 144 
Pish, to skin and bone.. 144 
Fish, ways of cooking . . . 144 
Fish, to freshen salted. . 145 
Fish, directions for bak- 
ing 148 

Fish roe 150 

Fish, pickled 150 

Pish chowder 150 

Herring 1*7 

Halibut 148 

Mackerel 147 

Oysters and clams 

151, 152, 153, 154 

Shad 148 

Salmon 149, IBO 

Xeat, Poultry and Oanie. . . 155 
Boiling and roasting di- 

rections i** 

Beef, boiled 1»5 

Beef, steamed jo" 

Beef, corned i»» 

Beef, pressed J-»° 

Beef, braised i-°2 

Beef, roast • • V ico 

Beef, pot roast 157, io» 



Page 

Beef, steak 158,169 

Beef, dried 159 

Crusts for meat pie.. 164, 165 

Chicken pies 166 

Chicken 168, 169 

Duck 171 

Dressing, bread 173 

Dressing, oyster 173 

Goulash 159 

Guinea hen 170 

Goose 171 

Haslet 160 

Heart 160 

Ham pie 166 

Hash 166 

Ham 163, 164 

Indian curry 166 

Liver 159, 160 

Meat loaf 161 

Mutton 161 

Meat pies 165 

Opossum 173 

Pork 162, 163 

Poultry, to pick and clean 167 

Rabbit 171, 172 

Kacooon 172 

Sauces 174, 175,176 

Tripe 160 

Tamales 170 

Turkey 170 

Veal 161, 162 

Venison 173 

Potatoes, TesretaMes and 

Salads 177 

Asparagus 186 

Beets 182 

Beans 183, 184 

Beans, baked 184 

Banana salad 193 

Cucumbers, stu£Eed 184 

Corn 179, 180 

Carrots 181, 182 

Celery and celerlao 185 

Cabbage 187, 188 

Cauliflower 188 

Chard 190 

Cabbage salad 193 

Dandelion 190 

Eggplant 186 

Egg salad 193 

Fruit salad 19i 

Fish salad 193 

Lettuce 195 

Meat salad • 198 

Onions 189 

Okra 190, 191 

Potato ways 177, 178 

Potato, sweet 179 

Parsnips 183 

Peas 18* 

Peppers, stufted 187, 



318 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Page 

Potato salad 192 

Rutabaga 186 

Squash 185 

Salsify 186 

Sauerkraut 188 

Spinach 189 

Salad dressings 191, 192 

Tomatoes 180, 181 

Turnips 183 

Tomato salad 193 

Vegetable salad 193 

IWaldorf salad 193 

Beveraeres and Symps 195 

Barley or rice water. 203 

Beef tea 203 

Coffee 197 

Coffee, cereal 198 

Cocoa 199 

Chocolate 199 

Cider 201 

Cordials 200 

Egg nogg 197 

Fruit shrubs 200 

Flaxseed tea 203 

Grape juice 201 

Koumiss 196 

Lemonade and orangeade 199 

Milk 196 

Oyster tea 203 

Punches 200 

Syrups 201, 202 

Tea 197 

Toast water 202 

Water 196 

^oes, Ice Cream and Con- 
fections 205 

Butter scotch 210 

Cream (candy) 208 

Colorings for candy 208 

Caramels 210 

Cocoanut candy 210 

Freezing 205 

Ices 206 

Ice Creams 207 

Molasses candy 209 

Peppermint or gum drops 

203, 209 

Sherbet 206, 207 

Taffy 210 

TaMe Eanlpment and Etl- 

ati«tte 211 

Dini^ig room 211 

Dining room table 212 

, Table manners 213 

Table ■ decorations ...214, 215 

Cannlner and FreserTlntr. . . . 217 

Apples 220, 221 

L Blackberries 227 



Page 

Blueberries 227 

Beans 231 

Beets 232 

Canning methods 217 

Canning hints 216 

Cherries 219, 220 

Currants 221, 222 

Citron melons 225 

Canteloupe 226 

Cucumbers 230, 231 

Corn 232, 233 

Elderberries 226 

Gooseberries 227 

Greens 234 

Grapes 222, 223 

Huckleberries 226 

Jars for canning 218 

Jars, heating and filling. . 218 

Pineapple 221 

Plums 224 

Pears 223, 224 

Peaches 224, 225 

Peppers 230 

Pumpkin or squash 230 

Peas 231 

Quince 222 

Raspberries 228 

Rhubarb 229, 230 

Salicylic acid 219 

Strawberries 228, 229 

Tomatoes 233, 234 

Watermelon 226 

Jellies, Jams and Marma- 
lades 235 

Apple jelly 236, 237 

Apple jam 241 

Apricot jam 243 

Apple butter 245 

Barberry jelly 238 

Blackberry jelly 239 

Blackberry jam 242 

Currant jelly . 237 

Cranberry jelly 238 

Cherry 239 

Cherry jam 242 

Currant jam 242 

Cherry marmalale 244 

Damson jam 24S 

Elderberry jelly ' 238 

Elderberry jam 241 

Fig paste 247 

Grape jelly 238 

Gooseberry jelly 239 

Gooseberry jam 243 

Jelly rules 235 

Jelly kettle and bags 236 

Jam and marmalade rules 240 

Jam and jelly, uncooked. . 241 

Muskmelon marmalade. . 244 

Orange marmalade 244 



INDEX 



31ft 



Page 

Plum jelly 239 

Peach 3am 243 

Peach butter 245 

Plum butter 246 

Pumpkin or squash butter 246 

Quince jelly 237 

Quince marmalade 244 

Quince honey 247 

Raspberry jelly 239 

Bhubarb jelly 240 

Raspberry jam 242 

Rhubarb jam 242 

Strawberry jelly 239 

Strawberry jam 242 

Tomato jelly 240 

Tomato jam 243 

Tomato butter 246 

Watermelon marmalade. . 245 

VlckUns— Sour and Sweet. . 249 

Beans, to salt down 250 

Beans, pickled 254 

Beets, pickled 254 

Cucumbers, to salt down. 249 
Cucumber pickles, sour 

250, 251 
Cucumber pickles, sweet 252 

Cabbage, pickled 255 

Cauliflower, pickled 255 

Corn pickle 256 

Chow-chow 257 

Carrots, sweet pickled.... 259 

Bill pickles 251 

Fruit, pickled 258, 259 

India relish 257 

Mixed pickles 152 

Mustard pickle 256 

Olive oil pickles 253 

Onions, pickled 254 

Olives, pickled 257 

Peppers, pickled 256 

Sauerkraut 260, 261 

Tomatoes, to salt down. . 250 

Tomato pickle, green 253 

Tomato pickle, yellow . . 254 
Tomato pickles, sweet . . 259 

Cutsnps and BeUsHes 263 

Apple catsup 2bb 

Cucumber catsup 264 

Cherry catsup 266 

Currant catsup -.•• 266 

Chili sauce 267, 268 

Farmers' catsup 265 

Grape catsup 266 

Gooseberry catsup • 267 

Miscellaneous sauces.. 268, 269 
Miscellaneous relishes ^^^ 

Varieties 307 

Peach catsup ■^o* 



Faea 

Plum catsup 265 

Tomato catsup, ripe 263 

Tomato catsup, green . . 264 

Tomato catsup, cold 264 

Tomato catsup (canned) 265 
Walnut catsup 267 

FirelesB Cookery — the Hay- 
box 271 

Construction of hay-box 

272, 273 
Cooking suggestions .... 278 
Fireless cookers 275, 276, 277 

Principle, the 271 

Recipes, fireless cookery 

279, 280, 281, 282 

Bntcherlnjr Time Beclpes. . 283 
Beef, how to cut up.. 283, 284 

Beef, when killed 288 

Beef, dried 294 

Beef, corned 294 

Beef, pickled 295 

Brains 306 

Canning meat and poul- 
try 290 

Curing 293, 294 

Cheek 30& 

Feet 296, 305 

Frozen meat, to pack. . . . 289 

Head cheese 299, 300' 

Lard 298 

Mince meat -. 304 

Pork making 285 

Pork, to cut up 286i 287 

Preparations 287, 288 

Pork, to pack in salt. ... 289 

Paunch 298 

Smoking meat 290, 2991 

Smokers, barrel or box . . 292 

Salt pickle 295 

Sweet pickle 295 

Souse 296 

Suet 293 

Sausage casings ....301, 304 

Sausage filling 301 

Sausage, liver • • ■ • 302 

Sausage, kidney, heart .. 302 

Sausages 302, ius 

Scrapple g"* 

Tongue ^» ' 

Tripe ^^' 

OnUnary and Medicinal 

Berlis ** 

Cultural directions 308 

Curing 308 

Doses ••■■ ^Y* 

Herbs 309- 314 

Medicinal uses ^Jll 

Proportions '>"° 



320 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Abbreviations and Measures 



Quart qt 

Pound lb 

Pint pt 

Quart qt 

Crallon gal 

Teaspoon teasp 

Tablespoon tablesp 

Minutes mln 

Hour hr 

One cup (liquid or dry) equals 

% pt 
Four cups flour equals 1 lb or 

X qt. 
Two cups butter equals 1 lb. 



Two cups granulated sugar 
equals 1 lb. 

Two level tablesp butter equals 
1 oz. 

Four level tablesp butter equals 
M. cup. 

Three teasp (dry) equals 1 
tablesp. 

Four teasp (liquid) equals 1 
tablesp. 

Three tablesp (dry) equals % 
cup. 

Four tablesp (liquid) equa!is % 
cup. 







°* 



. -e 










' \<f 



»** .♦liriL^ *^_ 




. v^\** %*^^/ V^^V 



%.^* 















y .' 






.' .*'\ 









^. ♦•To* .«r^ 






"Ko. "eio* ^«,^ 














^^o^.-i:^'. -^ 











- ^ ^- -^ ^ o.^ 



..«* -v'^ 




















■^ ".^^P^** 4.*^'^%. ^^^*' '4^^'\ °-^^** ^'' 



£2F 



FARM AND HOME 

COOK BOOK 

and 

Housekeeper's Assistant 



Compiled and Edited 

by 

ADELINE O. GOESSLING 



^^k|^ 



THE PHELPS PUBLISHING GO. 

Springfield, Mass. 

New York Ghicago 



y" 



-A 



K 



JUBRARY of CON^5E3S 
;1 Tw» Copies Keteiveu 

DEC 31 S907 

1 CLASS '^ XXc Wu. 

COPY 8. 



Copyright, 1907, by 

THE PHELPS PUBLISHING COMPAJVY 



J 



The World's Heroine 



The world'is always praising 

All the great folk of the time — 
The poets and musicians, and 

The ministers sublime; 
But to earth's greatest heroine 

They never cast a look; 
I'll tell you who she is^ at once — • 

The blessed household cook. 

We hear a lot of lauding for 

The man who goes to war. 
The artist and the sculptor. 

The poet and his lore. 
The lawyer and inventor, and 

The author's famous book; 
But we never hear a word aboujt 

The blessed household cook. 

Perhaps you think she isn't worth 

The praise that I would give; 
But, without her ceaseless kindness, 

Pray, how long would you live? 
We all would soon expire, if 

Of food we ne'er partook; 
So I raise my hat in honor of 

The blessed household cook. 

She saves the lives of thousands. 

By her duties every day, 
Though she does it in a simple 

And unnoticed, quiet way. 
But when I am an author, 

I shall surely write a book 
About the queen of womankind — 

The worthy household cook. 

— [Alice M. Jones, .Maine. 



X 



""Good cooks are born, not made, they say; 

.The saying is most untrue. 
Hard trying and these fine recipes 
Will make good cooks of you." 



Love and indigestion have no affinity one for another. On 
the other hand, carelessly selected, improperly cooked food 
and indigestion are twin souls. The moral is vivid. If love 
is to be kept as a permanent dweller in the home the door 
must be barred against indigestion. So the sensible young 
wife begins to study the first principles of cooking. — [Mary 
Jane McClure. 




INTRODUQTION 

ANY and various are the cook books now: 
on the market, but few, if any, are plain, 
practical, thorough, and complete enough 
for all-around use and every-day reference, 
in farm homes — in families where plain 
tastes and limited means forbid extravagant 
or fancy culinary indulgences and the accompanying 
unnecessary expenditure of time and labor. 

This book is intended especially and primarily for farm 
cooks, though it will be found equally useful and helpful in 
the city kitchen where economy is an object. It is of course 
understood that country or farm housekeepers have many 
advantages their town sisters lack, such as fresh fruits, 
vegetables, poultry, eggs, milk, cream and butter, which 
naturally cannot always be had in city markets, where even 
inferior grades of produce are high priced. In the average 
farm kitchen such things are considered necessities, not 
luxuries, and are accepted quite as a matter of course. 
How true it is that blessings brighten when they take their 
flight, as many an ex-country housewife could testify. 

But in spite of the many advantages which the farm 
cook enjoys, it is a deplorable fact that poor cooks are not 
confined to city limits. It is a pity that there should be 
any poor cooks, in city or country, since the art of plain, 
and wholesome cooking is an easy one to master and yet 
means so much in the life economy of working people, who 
in turn are of the utmost importance in the grand scheme 
of life. 

Some women do not seem to realize that very intimate 
relations exist between their own kitchens and the despised 
liquor saloons. Poor cooks have done more to drive men 
to strong drink than all the female temperance lecturers in 
the world can ever hope to redeem. To accomplish the 
most effective work for the cause of temperance, health and 
happiness, it is therefore necessary that women should first 

7 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



of all learn how to properly prepare palatable and nourish- 
ing food which will so well satisfy the natural cravings of 
the average human stomach that artificial and harmful 
stimulants will not be required. 

We should eat intelligently. Food and drink are to 
the human machine what fuel and oil are to the mechanical. 
An engine could not get up sufficient steam to pull a big 
load on a few sticks of soft wood or scraps of paper, and 
a working man cannot get up sufficient ambition to make 
the most of his opportunities on some slices of greasy 
salt pork, with soggy potatoes and a few heavy biscuits 
or doughnuts on the side. 

It is poor economy to send all the milk and cream 
and eggs, and the best vegetables, fruit and poultry to 
market. Farm folk themselves deserve the best of what 
they raise, and they should have it, too. If they wilfully 
deprive themselves, the doctors and druggists will eventu- 
ally get the money they saved (?) by selling all their best 
food products and living on the husks themselves. Besides, 
pills and tonics are not nearly so palatable and healthful 
as eggs and cream, and fruit and vegetables. 

So it all comes around to this point, that it pays to 
eat good food, and that it is the housewife's duty to know 
how to prepare it, after the "good man" has labored to 
provide the necessary material. The penalties of over-eat- 
ing are too well known to need any special mention. It 
has been aptly said that many people dig their graves with 
tneir teeth. The penalties of over-work are also well 
known, and it therefore behooves the cook to so plan and 
regulate her culinary activities that that department of her 
housekeeping will not take up an undue amount of her 
time or strength. 

It is hoped that this little cook book will induce house- 
wives to try an occasional change in their usual daily bill 
of fare. The introduction of some variety will make the 
cook's work less monotonous and is likely to be appreciated 
by other members of the family as well. In warm weather 
endeavor to avoid as much as possible heavy foods that heat 
the blood. For doughnuts, mince pies and pork, substitute 
fruits, salads, and vegetables, and eat but sparingly of meat. 



INTRODUCTION 



Entire wheat, graham, corn and rye bread are better than 
the white bread and ought to be served oftener. The 
virtues of milk and fresh buttermilk ought not to be over- 
looked either, and they might with advantage frequently 
serve as substitutes for boiled coffee and over-steeped tea, 
which are decidedly detrimental to health. 

Amateur cooks and beginners who are ambitious to 
extend their knowledge in the culinary line need not neces- 
sarily learn by bitter experience alone. Almost every 
State Agricultural College has connected with it a depart- 
ment of Domestic Science, which issues bulletins peri- 
odically, containing much useful information, being the 
cream of many experiments and researches. Some of these 
departments conduct correspondence courses for farmers' 
wives, and the Department of Agriculture at Washington, 
D. C, will send free of charge to anyone who asks for 
them, bulletins on the values and chemical composition of 
various food stuffs. The government and state departments 
of agriculture are generally able and always willing to help 
the farmer and his wife, because they are there to help 
them. Don't be backward about asking for information. 

The editor of this unique little cook book begs the 
indulgence of all who may become possessed of a copy. 
She does not claim to "know it all," and in this instance 
has confined herself chiefly to the task of picking out from 
among a million good recipes, kindly contributed by the good 
cook readers of "Farm and Home," such as seemed the best 
and the most deserving of finding a place in the "Farm and 
Home Cook Book." 

A glance through the index will prove that there is no 
lack of variety, and every woman who is represented in 
this book with one or more recipes has reason to be proud 
of being found in such good company. The editor extends 
hearty thanks to each and every one for the kindly and 
intelligent co-operation which helped to make this book 
possible, and that in turn, it is hoped, will help out many 
sister cooks all over this broad land of ours, where "Farm 
and Home" is a welcome visitor, when confronted with the 
problem, "what shall I cook, for a change?" 



Recipe for a Good Appetite 

A task to do, be it great or small, 
A cheerful heart with a smile for all; 
Faith in the good and love for our brother. 
The wish to help, and not hinder each other; 
Banishing useless worry and care, 
Seasoning work with a song and a prayer; 
Helping the old world on the right way. 
Doing and growing a little each day, 

— Celia Parker Woolley. 



10 




Bread, Rolls, Buns and Toast 

"Back of the loaf is the snowy flour, 

And back of the flour, the mill. 
Back of the mfll is the wheat and the shower 

And the sun, and the Father's will." 

N the culinary line there is nothing more 
important than to know how to prepare and 
bake good, wholesome bread — ''the staff o£ 
life." The dry, tasteless composition mis- 
called bread by some anxious-to-get-rich- 
quick professional bakers, and by don't-know- 
how housewives, is calculated to make one place undue 
emphasis on the old saying that "man cannot live on bread 
alone." As a matter of fact, such stuff is not only 
unpalatable, but also lacks the nutritive elements bread ought 
to have, being made of poor flour and deprived of what- 
ever little good there may have been in the flour by 
ignorant or careless handling and baking. And yet, really 
good, wholesome, nutritious and palatable bread is not 
expensive nor difficult to make. On the contrary, the art 
can be easily learned by anyone who is willing and anxious 
to learn, be she a wholly inexperienced beginner or a dis- 
couraged amateur, desirous of improving. That our farm 
cooks know how to bake bread is fully attested by the fol- 
lowing delightful variety of recipes. 

The Ingredients of Bread 

Four of the simplest ingredients in the culinary laboratory 
enter into the composition of a loaf of bread; yet the changes 
through which these materials pass before a finished loaf is 
evolved are the most complicated in all cookery. The four 
ingredients that enter into a loaf of bread are flour, yeast, 
salt and liquid. Milk or water, or a part of each, may com- 
prise the latter. Bread made with milk is more nutritious, 
but it dries more quickly than does bread in which water is 
used. The texture of milk bread, even with slight kneading, 
is velvelty and pleasing. Half milk and half water is quite 
generally used. Water bread, without shortening, carefully 

11 



12 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



manipulated, gives a loaf of nutty flavor, but with tough crust. 
Water, with two tablespoons shortening to the pint, is more 
generally preferred by American housekeepers. Opinions 
differ as to just what properties good bread should possess. 
Some wish a moist crumb and tender crust, others a dry crumb 
and a flinty crust. But there are certain points upon which 
all agree; namely, bread should be agreeable in smell and 
taste, while it should be light and porous, and the loaf should 
keep in good condition several days. — [J. McK. H. 

About the Flour 

The prime requisite for good bread is good flour. Without 
good flour the best cook cannot possibly make good bread. 
Obviously, it is poor economy to buy the poorer grades of 
flour, and if your local dealer cannot or will not furnish you 
with the best, send an order to the nearest town or city, and 
insist upon getting the right kind. Flour made from inferior 
wheat or wheat that has been exposed to moisture produces a 
lieavy, moist bread, which moulds quickly. 

To test bread flour, according to Mrs. Rorer, make a small 
ball of dough from flour and water, knead well, as for bread, 
and then quickly break the ball or biscuit in half. It should 
break with a crack, but if it is poor flour it will first pull and 
stretch and finally break without a sound. Another test is to 
take a handful of flour, close the hand tightly, then open it, 
and if the flour falls apart and does not pack, it is good for 
bread or biscuits. The color should be a rich, creamy tint — 
blue-white or greyish tints indicate poor, cheap flour. 

Pastry flour should never be used for bread, biscuits or 
muffins, but only for fine pastry, cakes and similar light mix- 
tures that do not require kneading. Genuine pastry flour is 
a pale, yellowish white, fine and starchy, and will easily retain 
the form of the hand upon pressure. It is usually sold in small 
boxes or bags, but very seldom, if ever, in bulk, to retailers. 
The only permissible substitute for genuine pastry flour, when 
that cannot be obtained, is a soft, winter-wheat flour. 

Whole wheat flour is of a dark, brown color, rather coarse, 
and should be free from bran, which is the outside coat of the 
wheat. All the other nutritive parts of the wheat grain are 
retained in the whole wheat flour, while only the inner por-' 
tions are used for the fine white flour, which lacks many of^ 
the more nutritious elements. Bread made from whole wheat 
flour is considered by physicians to be the best diet for young 
and old — especially those suffering from weak digestion, for 
pursing mothers and for those inclined to be anaemic, espe-' 
cially children inclined to rickets, and those whose teeth show 
signs of early decay, as whole wheat is rich in alkaline phos-* 
phates. 



THE BREAD DOUGH 13 



Again, according to Mrs. Rorer, most graham flour sold in. 
our markets is composed of a little white flour and a goodly 
quantity of bran, mixed with a certain proportion of "shorts" 
or "middlings." These particles being indestructible, graham 
bread therefore cannot be recommended very highly for steady 
consumption. 

Experienced housewives know that flour varies in its 
capacity to absorb moisture, and that therefore no recipe can 
indicate exactly the necessary amount of flour to be used. A 
little practice, perseverance and common sense will soon teach 
ambitious beginners the methods which will produce best 
results. 

About Kneading Bread Dough 

Stir sufficient flour into the sponge to make a dough that 
may be turned on to a board sprinkled with flour; then flour 
the hands. Draw the dough farthest from you over into the 
center several times, and then turn the whole mass half 
around. Draw it again from the opposite side toward the 
center; and press it down either with the fingers or the ball 
of the hand, then half turn again, and repeat this, with a sort 
of rocking motion, until the dough has been thoroughly and 
evenly kneaded. This will take at least 15 minutes. At first 
you must add flour, just a little at a time; but after the dough 
has lost its stickiness, knead it on a dry board. When it 
ceases to stick on pressure, the kneading may be discontinued. 
— [Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

When the bread dough becomes elastic and loses its stick- 
iness, it has been kneaded suflaciently long and is ready for its 
first raising. Kneading is really the most important part of 
bread making. In most households, the hands are used for 
this purpose. Good and inexpensive bread mixers can now 
be had which save three-quarters of the labor in bread mak- 
ing. — [A. G., Mass. 

Good Bread Without Kneading 

I find that the chief secret of good bread is mixing the dough 
soft. Use any favorite bread recipe, but use more wetting. 
Mix it so soft that you can easily beat it with a strong spoon — 
so soft that you cannot handle the dough except with well 
floured hands, and so soft that you cannot shape it into round 
loaves. I mix bread in a large granite-ware pail, cover with a 
tin cover, and wrap the whole thing snugly in an old com- 
forter, set it on top of a high stool, which in turn I place upon 
the top of a chair, and put all in a warm corner of the room. 
This arrangement keeps the draughts off, and as the upper lay- 
ers of air in the room are the warmest it secures for the bread 
a uniform degree of warmth throughout the whole process of 
fermentation. This is not always easy to get, particularly in 



14 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

winter. In tlie morning I turn the dough into nicely buttered 
bread tins, smear the top with melted butter, and let stand 
until it is double in bulk. Have the oven pretty hot for the first 
20 or 30 minutes, and then reduce the heat somewhat. This 
gives a deliciously crisp crust. — [Mrs. W. J. T., Vt. 

About the Baking 

The baking of the bread is of the greatest importance, as the 
yeast plant must during the baking process be thoroughly 
killed. Otherwise it is capable of setting up fermentation m 
the stomach. If the oven is too hot and the loaves large, the 
crust surrounding will prevent the heat from penetrating to 
the center of the loaf. Such bread is very unwholesome. There 
are several ways of testing the oven without a thermometer. 
The old-fashioned baker's method was to throw flour on the 
floor of the oven and if it browned up after 3 minutes without 
taking fire, the oven was sufficiently heated. The ordinary 
cook will hold her hand in the oven while she slowly counts 
twenty. If you have an indicator on your oven, the hand 
should register 8. When the bread is done, it should immedi- 
ately be removed from the pans and tipped up so that the air 
may circulate freely around each loaf. Do not cover the 
bread even with a light cloth, as in this way the moisture is 
held, destroying the crispness of the crust, and making the 
center rather heavy. — [Mrs. S. T. R. 

To Make Yeast Without Yeast 

On Monday morning boil 2 ozs hops in 4 qts water i/^ hour, 
strain, and when the liquor is lukewarm add a small handful 
•ealt and V2 lb brown sugar. Mix ^/^ lb flour to a smooth paste 
with some of the liquor and then mix all well together and let 
stand till Wednesday, then add 3 lbs raw potatoes, grated, 
mix well and let stand till Thursday. It should be. stirred 
frequently and stand in a warm place. When baking bread 
you will find that it will not require more than V2 of this 
yeast as compared to other yeast. — [Mrs. N. E. W., Mo. 

Fresh Yeast 

To 4 large tablesp hot mashed potatoes add % teasp salt, 
1 teasp sugar, and hot water enough to make a thin batter. 
When lukewarm, add 1 cake compressed yeast, thoroughly dis- 
solved in a little lukewarm water. Stir well and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. I always make yeast fresh the day 
before I bake bread. This insures sweet, delicious bread, with 
no sour taste. — [L. M., N. Y. 



HOMEMADE YEASTS 15 



Perpetual Yeast 

Dissolve 1 cake compressed yeast in 1 pt lukewarm unsalted 
water in which potatoes were boiled. Mix well, add Vz cup 
sugar, stir thoroughly, pour into a 2-qt glass jar, cover loosely, 
and then let stand in a warm place over night. Next morning 
it will be a foaming mass. Put the rubber on the can, screw 
the cover down tight and set away in a cool place. When 
ready to make bread, pour into the can of yeast foam prepared 
as above, 1 pt lukewarm water in which potatoes were cooked, 
mix well, and then stir in ^4 cup sugar. Let the can stand 
open in a warm place about 5 hours, or until the contents are 
very light and foamy. Then stir it down and use 1 pt of the 
mixture for raising four loaves of bread. Put the rubber and 
cover on the jar again and keep in a cool place. Some of this 
yeast may be used once or twice a week, or every night, by 
adding fresh potato water and sugar as described above. — 
[Mrs. C. E. A., N. H. 

Potato Yeast 

To 1 qt hot, unsalted, mashed potatoes, add 1 qt hot un- 
salted water in which the potatoes were boiled, and a paste 
made of 3 tablesp flour and a little cold water. Beat well, and 
then add 3 tablesp sugar, 2 tablesp salt and 1 pt cold water. 
When this mixture is lukewarm, add 1 cake compressed yeast, 
thoroughly dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Let stand 
in a warm place until light, and when light, use as much of 
this yeast as you have water — 1 qt yeast and 1 qt water with 
flour enough to knead to the proper consistency will make 
about five or six loaves of bread. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Raw Potato Yeast 

Peel and grate 5 medium sized raw potatoes, put in a gal 
crock and add V2 cup each salt and sugar, and stir it well, 
then pour in boiling water, stirring constantly until the mix- 
ture thickens. Stir or beat with a spoon occasionally while 
allowing it to cool, and when lukewarm add i/4 pt old yeast 
or ^ cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water. Set away in a warm place until light. — [Mrs. D. L. A., 
Ore. 

Hop and Raw Potato Yeast 

Boil a handful of hops in 1 qt water, then strain, pour the 
liquid in a jar and add to it 1 cup sugar, Vz cup salt, 1 level 
tablesp ginger and 8 medium sized raw potatoes, grated. Mix 
well, and when lukewarm, add 2 cakes compressed yeast, thor- 
oughly dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Cover and let 



16 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



stand in a warm place till light, then seal and keep in a cool 
place. One cup of this will be plenty for three loaves of bread. 
Shake the jar well before using this yeast. — [Mrs. B. B. G.,. 
Mass. 

Buttermilk Yeast Cakes 

Scald 1 qt fresh buttermilk but do not let it boil, and while 
it is scalding hot sift in about l*^ qts white corn meal mixed 
with 1 teasp salt. Stir vigorously, and when the mixture is 
lukewarm stir in 1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water. Set away in a warm place to rise, and when 
the mixture has become very light, stir it down again. Do 
this three times and then add more corn meal and flour suffi- 
cient to make the mass stiff enough so it will stick together and 
can be easily handled. Form into small cakes and let them 
dry. — [L. M., N. Y. 

Tanzy Yeast 

Boil together in 1 pt water, 1 large potato, and about 10 
tanzy leaves. When the potato is soft, skim out the tanzy 
leaves, mash the potato fine and when lukewarm stir in 2 
tablesp flour and 1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in a lit- 
tle lukewarm water, 1 tablesp sugar and 1 teasp salt. Set 
away in a warm place until light and foamy, then stir in about 
iy2 pts white corn meal. It should be quite stiff. Roll out on 
a well floured board, about V2 inch thick, cut in 1-inch 
squares, and dry. Store in sealed paper bags and hang in a 
cool place. Use one of these cakes for three loaves of bread. — 
[Mrs. M. McC, Kan. 

Jug Yeast 

Wash and peel 6 medium sized potatoes, cut into quarters 
and boil until soft. While the potatoes are cooking, steep a 
handful of hops in 1 pt Vv^ater. When the potatoes are well 
done, mash them fine, sift over them 1 pt flour, add % pt 
sugar and scant % pt salt. Mix well and then pour over this 
the hot water in which the potatoes were cooked and the 
strained water in which the hops were steeped, and beat all 
well together until smooth. Then add enough water to make 
1 gal in all. When lukewarm add 2 cakes compressed yeast, 
thoroughly dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Stir well and 
set away in a warm place until it ferments and is light, then 
pour in a jug, cork tightly, and keep in cool place. Use about 
% pt of this yeast for a baking of bread. — [Mrs. H. C. H., 
Col. 



WHITE RAISED BREAD 17 

Homemade Baking Powder 

To 1 lb and 2 ozs cream tartar add y^ lb bi-carbonate of 
soda and ^A lb fine cornstarch. Mix well and sift through, 
a very fine sieve at least six times to be sure that the ingredi- 
ents are evenly distributed. All the ingredients must be dry, 
and the baking powder should be kept in a close tin, and set 
away in a dry place. Weigh the ingredients exactly, accord- 
ing to the above given quantities. Too much soda will cause 
yellow or brown spots to appear in the batters where this bak- 
ing powder is used, and besides being unpalatable, when too 
much soda is used it hinders digestion. — [A. G., Mass. 

White Bread 

At noon, when the potatoes are cooked for dinner, select 
3 about the size of an q^z, mash very fine, add 1 level tablesp 
salt, 2 of sugar and 3 of flour. Mix all well together, then 
add scant % cup boiling water, stirring vigorously, and when 
lukewarm add % cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water. Stir the mixture well, cover and let stand 
in a warm place. In the evening scald 2 cups sweet milk, 
pour it into the mixing pan, add 2 cups cold water, and when 
lukewarm add the light yeast mixture, and mix stiff with warm 
flour. Turn out on the bread board and mould into a large 
loaf, kneading about 10 or 15 minutes; then return to the mix- 
ing bowl, cover, and set in a warm place over night. In the 
morning knead it down and divide into three loaves. Put into 
greased tins, and set in a warm place to rise until they have 
doubled in bulk. Bake one hour in a moderately hot oven. — 
[Mrs. B. G., N. Y. 

Yeast Bread (Compressed Yeast) 

At noon pour 1 qt water from the boiled potatoes over 1 
cup granulated sugar and let stand till lukewarm, then add 1 
compressed yeast cake, stir well, cover, and set in a warm place 
until next morning. Put 2 qts warm sifted bread flour in the 
mixing pan, make a hole in the middle, put in y^. cup sugar, a 
little salt, and a small piece of lard, then add 1 pt yeast as 
prepared above, and 1 qt lukewarm water. Stir well, cover 
and set in a warm place to rise. When light and foamy, mix 
stiff, adding more flour if necessary, and knead from 5 to 15 
minutes or longer. Let rise again, and when light shape into 
small loaves, but do not add any more flour. Place in dripping- 
pans so the loaves just touch, brush with melted lard, and set 
to rise in a warm place. When light, but not too light (it 
should be no more than double in bulk), bake in a hot oven 
about 50 minutes. When done, take out, brush over with 
melted butter, cover with a light clean cloth and let cool. 
Keep the balance of the prepared yeast in a jar in a cool place. 



18 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and the next time, the day before you wish to bake, start the 
yeast as before, only use the remaining prepared yeast, instead 
iOf the compressed. — [Mrs. E. McC, N. Y. 

Wliite Bread (Perpetual Yeast) 

For four loaves bread use 3 qts flour, 1 scant qt lukewarm 
water, 1 tablesp salt and 1 pt perpetual yeast. (See perpetual 
yeast recipe.) Knead the dough until thoroughly mixed, rub 
the outside of the mass with a tablesp lard, or lard and butter, 
put in a bowl, cover, and set in a warm place to rise over night. 
Next morning mould into loaves, let stand in a warm place 1 
hour, and when light bake 1 hour in a hot oven. — [Mrs. C. E. 
A., N. H. 

Potato Yeast Bread 

Sift 3 qts warm flour in a warm mixing bowl with 1 tablesp 
salt, % tablesp sugar and % tablesp lard, then add 1 pt potato 
yeast, and 3 pts lukewarm water. Knead thoroughly, set in a 
warm place, and let rise over night. Next morning mould into 
loaves, set in a warm place until it has doubled in bulk, and 
then bake. — [Mrs. D. L. A., Ore. 

Hop Yeast Bread 

After tea time make a thin sponge with warm flour, 3 pts 
warm water and 1 cup hop yeast. Cover and let stand 2 hours 
in a warm place until light; then knead into a loaf, cover, and 
let stand in a warm place over night. In the morning mould 
into three loaves, let rise, and when light bake 1 hour. Have the 
oven quite hot when the loaves are first put in, and gradually 
moderate the heat. — [M. D., O. 

About "Salt Rising" or "Emptyings" 

This sponge or leavening is made by fermenting flour and 
water or milk without the addition of ordinary yeast. The true 
conditions of this fermentation are not exactly known. Judg- 
ing from the odor produced, bacteria play an important part 
in the "fermentation." Then, too, the wild yeast plants of the 
air find this an exceedingly good resting place, and grow with 
great rapidity. Whether or not this bread is wholesome, is an 
open question. We know this, that in a perfectly clean room 
(and by this we mean a room surgically clean, one free as nearly 
as possible from all germ contaminations) it is almost impossi- 
ble to make good "emptyings." Carry the basin from this room 
to one where the floor is covered with carpet, especially if the 
carpet has not been carefully cleaned or shaken recently, and 
almost immediately you will have a pitcher full of foaming 
"emptyings." We fully realize that many persons have eaten 
hread made after this method for years, and are, perhaps, in 
fairly good health. The question is, then, what would they have 



SALT RISING BREAD 19 

been if, instead, they had always used good bread? The effect 
of heat upon bread greatly influences its digestibility. "Salt 
rising" bread will not bake as easily or quickly as that made 
with yeast. The crust is always light and soft, and the crumb 
moist; seeming to hold much more water than other breads. 
This sponge, made from the wild yeast floating in the air, and 
unwholesome yeasts used in bread making, are the frequent 
causes of indigestion. This bread then should be used but 
sparingly, if at all. — [Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Salt Rising Bread I 

To 1 small cup new milk add 1 scant cup boiling water, and 
stir ipto this 1 large cup white corn meal, and enough flour to 
make as thick as cake batter, 1 tablesp sugar, i/^ teasp salt, 
and a small pinch of soda. Set away in a moderately warm 
place over night. In the morning it will be light. Stir in a 
little warm water and a little flour to make of the proper con- 
sistency, and then set the mixing bowl in a vessel of warm 
water over the back of the stove, and by the time breakfast is 
over it will probably have risen to the top of the tin, or be 
thoroughly light. Next sift into a bread mixing pan enough 
flour for a large loaf (about 1 qt or more), add a little lard, 
salt and sugar, and mix up with the foamy ^'rising," using a 
little warm water if more wetting is needed. Knead well, shape 
into loaves, put in well greased pans, and set in a warm place 
to rise. When light bake in a not too hot oven. I have used 
this recipe for 15 years, and it has never failed me. I usually 
use a quart fruit can to prepare the "rising." — [E. A. E., N. C. 

Salt Rising Bread II 

Put into a qt pitcher or .iar 1 pt boiling water, 1 teasp 
sugar, and % teasp each soda and salt. When cool enough to 
bear your hand in it, add flour to make a thick batter, beat 
well, and put the jar or pitcher m a vessel filled with hot v/ater 
but not hot enough to scald the mixture. Keep up a uniform 
temperature until the "rising" is light. If set early in the 
morning, it will be ready just before noon to make sponge. 
Add 1 qt warm milk and flour to make a sponge. Set in a 
warm place and when light make into loaves and let them rise 
again. Care should be taken not to let them rise too long, or 
the bread will be dry and tasteless. — [Mrs. J, A. W., Mo. 

Directions for Steaming Bread 

For moulds, if you do not have the boughten ones, use l-lb 
baking powder cans, or cottolene cans, or small lard pails, with 
covers to fit snugly. Butter the inside of the moulds well, and 
also the inside of the covers. Fill the moulds no more than 
two-thirds full, to allow space for swelling. If you do not own 



2 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



a "steamer," it is a good plan to set the covered mould inside 
of a larger vessel with a thin little piece of wood in the bottom, 
and fill the outside vessel with boiling water to within an inch 
of the top of the mould, but no more, as otherwise the water 
would leak into the mould while boiling. Cover the outside 
vessel securely, and boil steadily for the length of time the 
recipe calls for. It is important that the water should not stop 
boiling until the bread is done, otherwise the bread will be 
soggy. Have a kettle of hot boiling v/ater always in readiness, 
and if necessary add a little water to the steaming vessel, if the 
water in it boils away too much. When done remove the cover 
from the mould, and put the bread in the oven about 5 or 10 
minutes, to dry and brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Sift 2 V2 cups entire wheat flour with 1 scant teasp soda and 
V2 teasp salt, add 1 cup buttermilk. Mix well, then turn into 
greased pans and bake V2 hour. If liked 1 or 2 tablesp sugar 
may be added. — [J. B. J., O. 

Baked Graham Bread 

To V2 cup molasses or scant % cup brown sugar add V2 cup 
each white flour and corn meal, 2 cups each graham flour and 
sour milk, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
added last. Bake in 1-lb baking powder cans, about % hour. 
— [Mrs. B. W. A., Cal. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

To 1 % cups graham flour add 1 cup wheat flour, ^/^ cup corn, 
meal, 1 teasp baking powder, i/^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 tablesp 
butter, 1 cup each sweet milk and buttermilk in which dissolve 
1 teasp soda, 1 % cups molasses, and a pinch salt. Steam 2 
hours, then bake 2 minutes. — [Mrs. E. V., N. Y. 

Raised Graham Bread I 

Early in the morning scald 1 pt fresh milk, and while hot 
add 1 teasp butter or lard, and small pinch soda. When luke- 
warm add 1 cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little luke- 
warm water. Mix well, then add 1 qt graham flour, 1 pt 
wheat flour, V2 cup sugar, and 1 teasp salt. The ingredients 
should all be lukewarm. Mix well, and if there is not quite 
enough wetting, add a little more lukewarm water. Cover, 
and set in a warm place to rise. When light (which ought to 
be in a few hours) divide into two loaves, mould on a well 
floured board, just enough to shape them into loaves. Put in 
greased tins, cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place ta 
rise again. When light, bake about 1 hour, and when done, 



GRAHAM AND RYE BREAD 21 



remove from the tins immediately and place on a clean cloth 
until cold. — [Mrs. A. C, Mass. 

Raised Graham Bread II 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add 1 pt lukewarm water, and 
then stir in 1 qt graham flour, a little salt, and Vs cup sugar. 
Knead to the proper consistency with white flour, and let rise 
the same as white bread. This will make two loaves. — [Mrs 
J. W. M., Pa. 

Rye Bread 

Sift and mix together 1 1^ qts rye meal, i^ qt white flour, 1 
level tablesp salt, and V2 tablesp caraway seed. Make a hollow 
in center of flour and pour in 1 cake fresh compressed yeast 
dissolved in 1 qt lukewarm milk and water mixed, and 1 level 
tablesp melted lard. Stir in a little bit of the surrounding 
flour to make a soft sponge, cover, and set in a warm place to 
rise. At the end of 1 or 2 hours it will be light. Then work 
into the sponge the rest of the surrounding flour, using a big 
wooden spoon, and work about 10 minutes, tlien cover and 
again put away in a warm place to rise, which will take from 2 
to 3 hours, when it should double in bulk. Turn out on mix- 
ing board, sprinkle with white flour, and knead into loaves, 
kneading each loaf about 10 minutes. Put each loaf into 
greased pans, cover with a clean cloth, and let rise again. 
When light put into a moderately hot oven anci turn bread 
every 10 minutes for the first ^/^ hour (three times), so that it 
w^ill raise even. After the first i/^ hour increase the heat some. 
After the loaves have baked 1 hour, take them out of the pans 
and put them on the bare oven shelves, and bake Vz hour 
longer. This will make a nice brown crust all around. When 
done wrap in a clean cloth, and lean against something until 
cold. When compressed yeast is not on hand, Vz cake dry 
yeast may be used by starting the sponge the day before. — 
[Mrs. G., Wis. 

Oat Meal Bread I 

Pour 3 cups boiling water over 1 cup rolled oats, add V2 cup 
molasses or sugar, 1 tablesp lard, and 2 teasp salt. When luke- 
warm add V2 or % cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water (in winter it may be necessary to use 1 whole 
cake yeast), then add enough bread flour to make a firm 
dough, and knead. Let rise over night, then mould into two 
loaves, and when light, bake about 1^ hours. — [G. I. C, Mass. 



22 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Oat Meal Bread II 

Take any desired quantity of bread sponge and before you 
liave kneaded it quite stiff enough, for bread, work in enough 
oat meal to make it stiff, then shape into loaves, grease well 
all over, and set in a warm place to rise. It will take longer to 
rise then ordinary white bread. When light, bake. — [Mrs. W. 
W. P., Okla. 

Barley Bread 

To 1% cups hot, boiled barley mush, add 3 tablesp sugar, 2 
tablesp butter, and 1 teasp salt. Mix well and when lukewarm 
add V2 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in % cup lukewarm 
water. Mix well and then knead in sufficient flour to make a 
stiff dough. Knead until elastic, then set in a warm place to 
rise, and when light mould into loaves, let rise again, and 
when light, bake. Bread made with mush requires a larger 
quantity of flour, and the dough should be mixed stiffer than 
ordinary bread dough. — [J. H. 

Baked Brown Bread I 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add V2 cup molasses and a little 
salt, and when well mixed stir in graham flour until the batter 
is quite thick. Put in well greased bread tins to rise, and 
when light bake a little longer than white bread. — [Mrs. E. 
W., N. Y. 

Baked Brown Bread II 

Put 1 cup molasses and 1 teasp soda over the fire and stir 
until it foams, then add 1 pt sweet milk, 1 teasp salt, and 4 
cups graham flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. If all 
graham flour is not liked use 3 cups graham and 1 cup white 
flour. Stir well, put into well greased tins, let stand 2 hours 
to rise, and then bake. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Steamed Brown Bread I 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup graham flour, ^ cup yellow 
corn meal, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 y2 cups sour milk, 1^ cup 
N O molasses, and pinch salt. Steam 2 i/i hours, then put in 
the oven about 5 minutes. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. 

Steamed Brown Bread II 

To 3 cups sifted graham flour add 1 cup corn meal, % cup 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups buttermilk in which dissolve 2 
teasp soda, V2 teasp salt, and lastly 2 cups seeded raisins 
dredged with flour. Put into 1-lb baking powder cans well 
greased, filling a little over half full. Steam 3 hours. — [A. C, 
Pa. 



BROWN AND BRAN BREAD 2Z 



Steamed Brown Bread III 

To 2 cups corn meal add 2 cups rye meal, % cup molasses 
and 1 heaping teasp salt. Mix well and then stir in 3 cups 
boiling hot water. When smooth add 1 cup sour milk in which 
1 teasp soda has been dissolved, and then add 2 cups sifted 
graham flour. Mix well, steam 4 hours, and then bake V2 
hour. — [Mrs. C. E. W., Mass. 

Bran Bread 

Sift and mix together 4 cups wheat bran, 2 cups wheat flour^ 
1 teasp soda and V2 teasp salt, then add 4 cups sour milk and 
1 cup molasses. Turn into well greased bread pans and bake 
in moderately hot oven about 1 hour. — [Mrs. A. M., Ct. 

Currant Bread 

To 1 qt bread sponge add i/^ cup molasses, 2 tablesp short- 
ening, 1 teasp each salt and cinnamon, Vz teasp cloves, V2 lb 
clean currants, and i/i lb seeded raisins, with flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Turn into well greased pans, also grease 
the top of the dough, cover, and set in a warm place to rise. 
When light, bake.— [Mrs. J. L. P., Fla. 

Hominy Bread 

To % pt cold, boiled hominy, add salt to taste, V2 pt corn 
meal, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablesp lard or butter, and suffi- 
cient sweet milk to make a thick batter. Turn into well 
greased pan and bake. — [Miss M. C. G., Ala. 

Mush Bread 

Prepare corn meal mush in the usual manner, and to 2 qts 
of the hot mush add 2 qts whole wheat flour or graham flour. 
Mix with a large wooden spoon and while mixing add 1 cup 
maple syrup or N O molasses, 1 teasp salt, and butter the size 
of a walnut. Mix well and when lukewarm add 1 qt light 
bread sponge. When this is well mixed add i/^ teasp soda and 
warm flour enough to knead and mould into small loaves. Put 
in well greased pans, let rise and when light bake in a moder- 
ate oven about % hour. When done remove from the pans„ 
rub the loaves with butter, wring a clean cloth out of hot water, 
lay it over the bread, and let stand till cold. The crust will be 
nice and tender. Follow the same plan for softening crust of 
any bread. — [A. G., O. 

Pumpkin Bread 

To 1 cup stewed pumpkin add pinch salt, 1 egg, 2 teasp each 
sugar and molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in 1 cup sour milk, and a mixture of corn meal and white flour 



24 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

enough to make a batter as for sponge cake, using i^ part flour 
and % part corn meal. Pour 3 or 4 tablesp thick sweet cream 
over the top of the batter just before placing the pan in the 
oven. — [Mrs. E. R. S., N. Y. 

Light Corn Bread 

Add 1 tablesp sait to 1 qt water, bring to a boil and then 
stir in enough corn meal to make a medium thick mush. Let 
boil up once and remove from the fire, stir in 2 qts cold water, 
and thicken with corn meal until stiff. Cover and set in a 
warm place to rise. When it is light it will puff up, and the 
batter will crack open and seem thinner. Stir in i/^ cup sugar 
and 1 cup flour, and let rise again, which will take about 15 or 
2 minutes; then pour the mixture into a deep, well greased 
pan and bake in a hot oven. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Corn Meal Egg Bread 

To 2 1/^ cups corn meal add % cup white flour, 1 teasp salt, 
2 tablesp sugar, 1 scant teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 beaten eggs, and 1 cup sour milk or cream. Beat well, 
put 1 tablesp butter into a hot spider, just large enough to 
bake a cake the size of a breakfast plate, pour the batter into 
this and then pour over it 1 cup sweet milk, but do not stir. 
Bake about 25 to 30 minutes in a hot oven. When the cake is 
cut, the milk poured in last will show in delicious creamy veins 
running through it. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. Y. 

Corn Bread (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups corn meal add 1 cup flour, % cup sugar, 1 teasp 
soda and V2 teasp salt. Sift these ingredients well, then add 
^ cup melted lard, and enough buttermilk or sour milk to 
make a batter as for griddle cakes. Pour into well greased 
pans about % inch deep, and bake 15 minutes. — [M. M., Ind. 

New England Corn Bread 

Scald 1 cup white corn meal with just enough boiling water 
to moisten it. Let stand about 10 minutes, then add enough 
cold water to make a soft batter. When lukewarm add V2 cup 
liquid yeast, % cup molasses, ^^ teasp each salt and soda, and 

1 pt rye flour. Beat well, cover, and let rise until the mixture 
cracks on top, then stir it down, pour into buttered and floured 
tins, let rise again, sprinkle the top lightly with flour, and bake 

2 hours in moderate oven. — [Mrs. D. W. C, British Columbia. 

Richmond Corn Bread 

Put 2 tablesp lard in a small, deep, tin pan and place in a 
liot oven. Beat 1 egg thoroughly in another dish, add ^/^ cup 



CORN AND SWEET BREAD 25 

sweet milk or water, and then sift in 1 cup white corn meal 
with 1 scant teasp baking powder and a little salt. Beat welU 
and then pour in the melted lard which had been placed in the 
tin pan in the oven, stir well, and then pour the mixture into 
the hot pan. Some people like a slice of bacon placed on top 
of the batter. Bake 15 minutes in a quick oven. Serve with 
fried fish or chicken. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Chesterfield Corn Bread 

This is to the south what fried mush is to the north, but we 
think it more palatable and hygienic. To 1 cup corn meal add 
pinch salt and 1 scant teasp baking powder. Mix well, then stir 
in water enough to make a batter that can be poured out. Have 
a large pie pan with 1 tablesp lard in the oven getting hot while 
preparing the batter. Pour the batter into the hot pan, and 
bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. This can also be 
baked on top of the stove on a hot, well greased skillet, and 
turned, to brown both sides evenly. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Sweet Bread 

To 1 qt light bread sponge add 2 ozs butter, 4 ozs sugar, and 
1 tablesp each cinnamon and caraway seed. Knead thoroughly, 
let rise, knead again 10 minutes, then put in greased baking 
pan, brush the tops with melted butter and when light bake in 
a moderate oven. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

German Bread 

To 2 cups light bread dough add- scant V2 cup butter and 
lard mixed, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups milk in which dissolve Vz teasp 
soda, 1 teasp each cinnamon and vanilla, and 1 cup seeded rais- 
ins. Stir with flour as stiff as bread dough, let rise, mix, let 
rise again, then mould into loaves. Score the tops several 
times with a sharp knife, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar,. 
let rise, and when light, bake. — [G. L. N., N. Y. 

Swedish Bread 

Take any desired quantity of light bread dough, roll out 
about V2 inch thick, rub with melted butter, sprinkle with 
sugar and raisins or currants, and a dusting of nutmeg or cin- 
namon. Roll up, let rise Vz hour in a well buttered pan, then 
rub a little melted butter on the outside of the loaf, and bake 
in a hot oven V2 hour. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Scotch Bread 

When making bread reserve enough for a small loaf and 
when the dough is ready for the last rising roll out and spread 
with a mixture of i/4 cup butter and % cup sugar. Roll up and 



•26 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

i:nead till smooth, using as little flour as possible, then roll out ! 

again and spread with V2 or % cup seeded raisins. Roll up \ 

-and knead as gently as possible, till the fruit is well mixed with I 

the dough, then put in well greased pans, let rise till very light, , 

brush the top lightly with melted butter, sift over with some ; 

sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. F. E. A., Wash. i 

Bread Sticks or Braids '^ 

Make a sponge of 1 cup scalded milk, cooled to lukewarm, 1 ; 

^up compressed yeast dissolved in i/4 cup lukewarm water, and i 

flour enough to make a soft batter. Cover and let stand in a | 

warm place, and when light add % teasp. salt, 1 tablesp sugar, : 

2 tablesp butter, the beaten white of 1 egg, and flour enough ! 
to make a dough that can be handled. Break off small pieces, 
shape into balls, then with the hands roll on a board, without i 
using flour, into long round strips of uniform size and shape. ! 
The strips should be no thicker than a thick lead pencil. Lay ; 
the strips in a well greased dripping pan, allowing space ', 
between for swelling, let rise until light, and then bake in a i 
hot oven. If the braids are wanted, roll the strips to the desired : 
length, pinch the tops of three of four together, and then braid : 
them loosely, and pinch the ends together. Let rise and when 1 
light, bake. — [J. H. 

Raised Tea Rolls \ 

In the morning rub 2 teasp shortening (lard or butter) into \ 

3 pts flour, add 1 teasp salt, 2 tablesp sugar, 14 cake compressed \ 
yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm water or milk, and luke- ; 
warm water or milk (or half and half of each), enough to i 
make a soft dough. Cover and let rise until light and spongy. ! 
When light knead with flour and roll out about % inch thick, ' 
<jut with biscuit cutter, brush each with a little melted butter, ! 
dent with tlie back of a silver knife through the center, fold ; 
over, lay in a well greased tin, set in a warm place to rise, and ; 
when light, bake in a rather quick oven. — [Mrs. C. E. A., N. H. \ 

Baking Powder Rolls i 

Sift 1 qt flour with 3 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp sugar, and | 
a little salt. Rub in I tablesp cold butter, add 1 well-beaten j 
egg, and enough milk to make a smooth dough as soft as can ! 
be handled. Roll out Yz inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter, ! 
brush the top of each with melted butter, dent the center of i 
each with the back of a silver knife, fold half over, put in well ! 
greased tins, and bake in a rather quick oven. — [Mrs. N. S., ; 
Mich. i 

Cinnamon Rolls j 

Make a good, rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll as for ;; 
-biscuits and spread liberally with sugar, butter and cinnamon; j 



TEA ROLLS AND BUNS 27 



roll up, pinch the-edges together, cut in slices, put a piece of 
butter on each slice, and bake immediately in a quick oven. — 
[B. G. R., Kan. 

Raised Cinnamon Rolls 

When bread sponge is ready to mould into loaves take about 
1 qt, roll out about ^^ inch thick, and spread lavishly with a 
mixture of a generous V2 cup butter and 1 cup brown sugar 
creamed together and highly flavored with cinnamon. Roll up 
and pinch the edges together, cut the roll in slices about ^ or 
% inch thick, set in a warm place to rise, and when light, 
bake. — [C. L., Ind. 

French Rolls 

Sift 1 qt flour with 1 teasp salt and 2 teasp baking powder, 
then rub in 1 tablesp butter or lard, and add 1 scant pt sweet 
milk. Turn the dough out on a floured board, give it one or 
two vigorous kneadings to make it smooth, then divide, break 
off small pieces, roll with the hands, brush tops with milk, and 
bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. — [M. A. G., O. 

Buttermilk Rolls 

To scant 1 pt buttermilk add 2 tablesp sour cream, 1 teasp 
each sugar, salt and soda, and 1 qt sifted flour. Bake in well 
greased iron roll pans. Sour milk may be used in place of 
buttermilk.— [M. B.. Vt. 

Graham Rolls 

To 1% cups sour milk or buttermilk add 1 tablesp sour 
cream, 1 teasp each soda, salt and sugar, and then mix quite 
stiff with 1 part white flour and 2 parts graham flour. This 
will make one doz rolls. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Squash Rolls 

To 1 cup boiled and sifted squash add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp 
sugar, 2 cups sour milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, Vz teasp 
salt, and sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in well 
greased roll ans in a quick oven. — [E. I. Me. 

Bran Rolls 

To 1^4 cups clean wheat bran add 1 cup entire wheat flour, 
V2 cup best molasses, 1% cups sour milk in which dissolve ^^ 
teasp each soda and salt. These are all the ingredients that 
are necessary, but the rolls will be more palatable and lighter 
if a little melted butter is added and 1 beaten egg. Bake in 
well greased gem pans in a moderately quick oven. Bran 
rolls or bread help to cure constipation. — [Mrs. H. E. R., Vt. 



28 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Potato Rolls 

Pare and boil until soft 4 good sized potatoes, then mach 
them smooth and add 1 heaping tablesp butter, 1 teasp salt, 1 
or 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 pt sweet milk, lukewarm, and 1 scant 
pt light bread sponge, with enough flour to make a dough that 
can be kneaded. Set in a warm place to rise, and when light 
shape into balls the size of an egg. Let rise again, and when 
very light bake 15 or 20 minutes in a moderately hot oven. — 
[E. L. R., S. D. 

Plain Buns 

Mix together i/l cup lively yeast, 1 cup sweet milk, scalded 
and cooled to lukewarm, V2 teasp salt, and 2 cups warm flour. 
Cover, and set in a warm place to rise, and when very light 
work in V2 cup sugar and 2 tablesp butter; then knead well 
about 10 minutes, using no more flour than necessary. Shape 
into biscuits a little larger than an egg, place on buttered tins, 
and set in a warm place to rise. When very light bake in a 
moderately hot oven. The tops of the buns may be brushed 
over with the beaten white of an egg sweetened, about 15 or 20 
minutes before removing from the oven, or sprinkled with 
moist sugar just afte- -emoving from the oven. — [Miss E. I. B., 
Cal. 

Sweet Buns or Rusks 

Mix together 1 pt mashed potatoes, 1 cup sugar, and 1 cup 
liquid yeast. Let stand in a warm place over night, and next 
morning add 1 scant cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs, and warm sifted flour enough to make a sponge. Set in 
a warm place to rise and when light knead, using no more 
flour than necessary. Let rise again, then shape into small 
buns, put in well greased pans, let rise till light, then brush the 
tops with sweet cream, sprinkle with sugar and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Another way: After the dough has raised for 
the second time, roll out ^^ inch thick, spread with cream, 
sprinkle v/ith sugar, roll up like jelly cake, pinch the edges, 
and cut off slices about % inch thick. Place flat on a well 
greased pan, let rise till light, and bake in a moderately quick 
oven. — [E. M. C, Mich. 

Rusks 

To 2 cups raised bread dough add 1 cup sugar, scant i/^ cup 
butter, 1 or 2 well-beaten eggs, and sifted flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Set in a warm place to rise, and when 
light mould into small biscuits, shaped high. Let rise again, 
and when light sift sugar and cinnamon over the tops and bake. 
— [M. D., O. 



RUSKS AND BRETZELN 29 

Com Rusks 

To 2 cups corn meal add 3 cups boiled milk, 1 cup lard, and 
2 cups sugar, and when lukewarm add 1 cup liquid yeast. Let 
stand in a warm place over night, and next morning add 1 
teasp salt and a small pinch of soda dissolved in a little warm 
water. Knead with no more flour than necessary, shape into 
rolls, and set in a warm place to rise. When very light, bake 
in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. E. A. N., Pa. 

Sweet or Salt Bretzeln 

Mix 1 large tablesp lively yeast with 1 cup lukewarm milk, 
and mix well into 1 y2 lbs sifted flour. Cream % lb butter with 
2 ozs sugar, add 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs, with a little salt and 1 
tablesp liquid yeast. Put the two mixtures together and knead 
until well mixed, then cut the dough into thin round bars or 
strips, about 7 inches long, tapering at the ends, twist into any 
desired forms, put in well buttered pans, allowing space 
between for swelling, set in a warm place to rise, and when 
light brush with the white of an egg, dust with sugar, and 
bake a light brown. If salt bretzeln are wanted omit the 
sugar from the recipe and a little before removing from the 
oven sprinkle with coarse table salt. — [S. E. W., O. 

Swieback 

Dissolve 1 cake compressed yeast in ^^ cup lukewarm milk, 
add 1/4 teasp salt and % cup flour. Mix well, set in a warm 
place and let rise until very light, then add 2 tablesp each sugar 
and melted butter (more sugar if liked very sweet), 1 whole 
egg and yolk of 1 egg, well beaten, and sifted flour enough to 
handle. Shape into rolls the size of small sausages, put into 
buttered pans, set in a warm place, let rise, and when light, 
bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. When cold cut in slices and 
brown evenly in a warm oven, then put in sealed paper boxes or 
bags, and store in a dry place. They will keep for a long time, 
and if desired can be put in a hot oven a lew minutes to crisp 
before serving. — [N. P., N. H. 

BREAD HINTS 

Extremes of heat or cold kill the yeast plants, and thus 
make fermentation or rising impossible. — [A. G., Mass. 

Add 1 cup chopped walnuts to each loaf graham bread, and 
you will find that the flavor of the bread will be very much 
improved. — [Mrs. M. A. P., Ill 

The addition of a little sugar when setting bread sponge will 
increase the rapidity of fermentation, but it spoils the fine 
flavor of the bread. — [A. G., Mass. 



so FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

The "rising" for salt rising bread can stand more heat than 
yeast, and from beginning to end salt rising bread reauires 
more heat than yeast bread. — [A. G., Mass. 

Bread sponged over night is not so liable to sour if salt is 
added, but salt in the sponge is unnecessary if the bread is 
made quickly, in the morning. — [A. G., Mass. 

After the bread has cooled, put it away without wrapping, 
in a perfectly clean tin box. Do not keep bread in stone or 
wood, and do not put in a damp cellar. — [Mrs. R. 

The batter for brown bread should be neither too thin nor 
too thick. If too thin the bread will be pasty, and if too thick 
it will turn out rather dry. — [Mrs. G. W. D., Wash. 

In cold weather I always make double the amount of brown 
bread at one time, as it will keep well for weeks and can be 
resteamed or heated over again as needed. — [Mrs. A. B., N. Y. 

Do not use bolted corn meal if you can get the unbolted, as 
the bolted meal is very fine and clammy, and when moistened 
does not bake so nice a crust as the unbolted meal. — [J. W. G., 
Ky. 

Compressed yeast cakes should be kept in a cool place until 
ready to use. They are not good after 2 or 3 days. When 
ready to use, dissolve thoroughly in Vz cup lukewarm water. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

From beginning to end, the process of bread making should 
be conducted in an even temperature of about 65 degrees, or 
thereabouts. Protect the dough from draughts and chills, and 
warm all the ingredients before combining. — [A. G., Mass. 

The white of an egg usually added when making rusk or 
tea biscuits, especially in connection with the shortening, 
retards the action of yeast, therefore a much longer time must 
be allowed for the rising of biscuits and buns than for ordinary 
bread. — [A. G., Mass. 

Save about 1 qt of the light bread sponge and set it away 
in a cool place, and use it for yeast the next baking time, and 
note the difference in the bread. I have followed this plan 
many years. Be careful to keep in a cool place, especially in 
summer. — [Mrs. D. J. W., Mich. 

All but 1 cup of the perpetual yeast can be used if neces- 
sary, and what remains can be used as a "starter" by adding 
more sugar and potato water. In this way, if kept covered and 
in a cool place, it will last for months. I put in ^ cake com- 
pressed yeast about once a month, to renew the strength. — 
[Mrs. A. H., N. Y. 



HINTS ON BREAD MAKING. 31 

When bread sponge is allowed to stand too. long to raise, it; 
is apt to collapse from exhaustion and become sour. The^ 
dough is raised enough when it has doubled its bulk. When it 
has arrived at this stage, and if you should happen not to have- 
the time to attend to it at once, just add a handful of flour 
and beat it through the dough thoroughly, after which it may- 
stand about yz hour wihout injury. — [A. G., Mass. 

When mixing graham bread I prefer a large knife or a spoon. 
Be careful not to get the batter too thick. It should not be 
stiff enough to mould with the hands at first, as the graham 
flour swells in standing. It should be just a trifle sticky to the 
touch — a little practice will soon teach you how stiff to make 
it. Use white flour for the hands and bread board, when 
moulding the loaves. It is always best to sift the graham 
flour. — [Mrs. A. E. W., N. Y. 

The compressed yeast cakes generally sold in almost every 
city, town and hamlet should only be used when they are fresh. 
They should be of a light and even color, but when the 
yeast is not as fresh as it should be, it will show brownish 
streaks, and if used would spoil the bread. These cakes, being 
compressed, contain much more yeast in a small space than 
ordinary homemade yeasts. — [A. G., Mass. 

For steaming brown bread I use 2 sizes of lard pails, put the 
bread in the small one, and set this in the larger one, with a 
piece of perforated wood in the bottom, fill with boiling water 
to within an inch of the top of the smaller pail, which should 
be securely covered. Cover the larger pail also and place the 
whole in a hot oven and you will not have to bother with it 
until the bread is done. This method saves steaming up the 
rooms. For brown bread I prefer the bolted corn meal. — 
[Mrs. L. M. R., Me. 

Use milk in mixing bread, for it is obvious that milk is more 
nutritious than water. Much kneading of the dough is 
unnecessary, even harmful, though many rules for bread mak- 
ing particularly emphasize it: I think it makes the bread 
tougher and it does not keep fresh and moist so long. Use as 
little yeast as possible. In summer less yeast is needed than 
in winter. All the ingredients for bread making should be 
lukewarm. Much depends upon baking — not too fast or too 
slow — in a range that bakes top and bottom evenly, usually in 
a little less than one hour. A very little baking after the- 
bread is done makes it dry. The ideal bread should be a little 
moist. It is best not to cut bread the same day it is baked. — 
[Mrs. J. I. M., N. H. 



22 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

tPASTE ADDITIONAIi RECIPES HEBE] 




A LUSCIOUSi HOMEMADE PIE. 




THREE CRISP LOAVES OF BREAD. 




Qakes, Fillings and Frostin^s 

OR cakes and in all branches of cookery it 
always pays to use the best and purest 
ingredients. Inferior flours, or cheap sodas, 
baking powders, spices and extracts, inva- 
riably fail to give satisfaction, because more 
than the ordinary quantities are required, 
and because they are generally unpalatable, and, most im- 
portant of all, because they are positively injurious to 
health. If you must practice economy, do so in quantity, 
not quality — in other words, select plain recipes and leave 
the fancy and more elaborate combinations for special 
occasions. 

Some like cakes very sweet and rich, while others do 
not. In presenting the following recipes, the editor has 
tried to steer a middle course. It is understood that salt 
should be added to every cake, although it was not thought 
necessary to repeat this in every recipe. The amount of 
salt required will vary — less if salted butter is used, and 
more if lard or any other unsalted drippings are used. 

The recipes which follow were mostly furnished by 
readers of Farm and Home, whose initials are signed. 
These recipes are all claimed to be tried and tested, and 
whatever else there may or may not be said of them, they 
certainly sound "tasty," and most of them have the addi- 
tional merit of being economical. The assortment includes 
plain and rich cakes, "raised" or yeast cakes, baking powder 
cakes, sour milk, buttermilk and soda cakes, eggless cakes, 
butterless cakes, fruit cakes, and various wholesome and 
palatable light and dark cakes, in loaves, layers, rolls and 
small cakes, together with all sorts of fillings and frostings. 
It would seem as though the variety would be large enough 
to suit all tastes. 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



General Directions for Baking Cake 

Measurements can be only approximately given, since flours 
vary in their capacity to absorb moisture, and every house- 
keeper does not measure with the same sized cup, or spoon. 
Therefore it will be necessary for each cook to experiment to 
some extent for herself. Bread flour should only be used for 
bread or yeast cakes, as it contains too much gluten, and is 
liable to make baking powder cakes too thick. Cups of dry 
ingredients are measured level, teaspoons or tablespoons should 
be rounded, while liquid measure should never be overflowing 
full. A complete table of weights and measures is given 
elsewhere in this book, also an index to th© abbreviations used. 

Cake batters are usually mixed by first creaming together 
the butter and sugar, then adding the eggs, one at a time, and 
beating them well with the butter and sugar. Sometimes only 
the yolks are added, and the beaten whites at the very last. 
After the eggs, molasses, or milk, or whatever liquid the recipe 
calls for, is added, then the flour, in which the baking powder 
should first be mixed dry, and all sifted together before adding 
to the other ingredients. 

The seeded or seedless raisins and the currants should be 
thoroughly cleaned and lightly dredged with flour before adding 
to the batter, the very last thing. Citron and candied lemon 
peel or orange peel, as well as nut meats, should also be 
dredged with flour before adding to the batter. This prevents 
the fruit from sticking together and falling to the bottom of 
the cake. 

When sour milk is used in cake, it calls for about 1 teaspoon 
saleratus (soda) to each cup sour milk, or buttermilk — more 
or less soda, according to the acidity of the milk. Too much 
soda makes the cakes unpalatable, and causes the objectionable 
little brown spots. Sweet milk can be substituted for sour 
milk by omitting soda, and using baking powder instead. It 
usually requires about 1 to l^^ teaspoons baking powder to 2 
cups flour. Also, sour milk can be substituted for sweet milk 
by omitting baking powder and adding a teaspoon soda to each 
cup sour milk. One cup sour milk with 1 teaspoon saleratus 
generally equals about 2 teaspoons baking powder in "raising" 
power. A good substitute for the "boughten" baking powder 
is made of cream of tartar combined with saleratus '«oda^- — 
two parts of the former with one of the latter. 

In dark cakes that call for butter, any gooa shortening 
can be substituted for the sake of economy — lard, chicken fat, 
or drippings, but none of strong flavor, such as goose or mut- 
ton, or any fat in which onions have been cooked. When try- 
ing a new recipe it is a good plan to measure the shortening 
and the sugar and molasses scant, until the individual family 
taste has been ascertained. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING AND BAKING 35 

When cakes "fall" in the center while baking, or immedi- 
ately after removing from the oven, it is generally because the 
batter was too thin, or too rich with butter or molasses, or the 
baking was too rapid, so that a hard outer crust had formed 
before the center had solidified. It is for this same reason that 
the crusts will break, and the batter come up between, thus 
forming unsightly broken tops to the cakes. 

When the cake is thought to be about done, test it by 
inserting a broom straw with thick end cut to a fine point. If 
no moisture, or half baked batter adheres to the straw, the 
cake is done. Also, when the cake is done it usually recedes 
a little from the sides of the tin. After removing the cake 
from the oven never place in a draft or on a cold surface, but 
place the pan on a cloth or towel wrung out of water, and 
allow it to remain there a few minutes, after which the cake 
can be easily removed from the tin. The more delicate the 
cake, the more careful the handling should be. 

Cake pans are best greased with baking oil, or lard, never 
with salted butter, as the latter burns easily, and sometimes 
also causes the cake to stick to the tins. Some cooks like to 
sprinkle flour in the greased tins to prevent cakes from stick- 
ing. Sprinkle liberally and shake out superfluous flour by 
inverting the tin and tapping lightly on the outside. Another 
good plan is to place a fitted piece of well greased paper (white 
or light brown) in the bottom of cake pan, and sometimes also 
along the sides, especially for rich cakes that require long 
baking. 

Most cakes require medium heat in the baking, except when 
the recipe states otherwise. If the oven is too hot, a pan of 
cold water placed in it will help to reduce the temperature. As 
a rule, layer cakes and small cakes require a hotter oven than 
loaf cakes. Cakes made with baking powder call for a higher 
temperature than those in which cream of tartar and soda, or 
lemon juice and soda, or molasses and soda are used. Cakes 
made rich with the yolks of eggs require less heat than cakes 
made with the whites of eggs — that is, an oven should be hot- 
ter for an angel cake than for a yellow or rich and heavy cake. 
Cake containing fruit should always be baked in a slow oven. 

The regulation of the oven temperature spells success or 
failure in cake baking. As a general rule, the oven should be 
slow at first, and the heat gradually increased. Never attempt 
to bake a delicate cake mixture with a freshly built coal fire, 
which, as everyone knows, always gives out a more intense 
heat, or with a fire from which the life has largely died out. 
When the same recipe is used with success at' one time and 
results in failure at another time the fault can generally be 
attributed to an oven of improper temperature. 

In mixing cakes lightened with yeast, observe the same 
points considered essential to success in bread making. On 
account of the tendency of sugar, butter and eggs to retard 



36 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

fermentation it is advisable to add these only to a light sponge 1 

or to a light bread dough. When filling cake tins the batter ] 

should never fill more than two-thirds of the space. Draw ! 

the mixture away from the center toward the corners or edges, i 

If this is done, the cakes when baked will have level tops, pro- j 

viding the oven was properly heated. j 

It is a saving of time, and results will generally be more sat- \ 

isfactory, if, before beginning to mix a cake, the cook will see '■ 

to it that she has everything needed ready at hand and in such j 

condition that the ingredients can be put together quickly. j 

,1 

Farmer's Cake j 

When putting raised bread in pans to bake, leave out a i 

piece about half the size of a loaf. Keep it in raiser and cover j 

warm, while you get the following ready: 1 cup lard (melted, j 

warm, not hot), 1 lb currants, ^^ lb raisins, 1^ cups sugar, 1 j 

small cup molasses, 2 eggs, 1 teasp each ground cloves, ginger, i 

allspice, cinnamon and soda. Mix the warm lard, beaten eggs ' 

and molasses and put in with dough. Then beat, and beat until ; 

it is light and like batter, after which add sugar and beat all ; 

again well. Lastly put in the floured fruit, but don't beat — i 

just fold over and over until well mixed, and put in a roaster \ 

in a hot oven, and cover and bake for li/^ hours. Do not [ 

open oven door until cake is cooked. If your bread is ready ; 

to bake first, it does not hurt cake to leave it standing in warm '\ 

place until oven is ready. This cake is very good and sub- ! 

stantial. — [Mrs. E. W., O. I 

Wedding Cake ■ 

T have prepared this for all my children when they were I 

married, and everybody who has tasted this cake declares that ! 

it is unsurpassed. Cream 1 lb sugar and 1 lb butter (or use I 

half butter and half shortening), add 12 eggs, one at a time, i 

1 lb sifted flour, 4 lbs raisins, seeded, 3 lbs currants, 2 lbs al- | 

monds, blanched and chopped fine, and 1 cup raspberry jam. \ 

Put in a separate small bowl 1 or 2 nutmegs grated, 1 tablesp j 

cinnamon, 1 teasp cloves, and pour over it 3 wine glasses ■ 
good brandy and 2 wine glasses white wine. Cover the bowl 

and let this stand while you are mixing the cake, then stir it I 

up, and pour it in the cake batter the very last thing. Mix ! 

well, and bake at once in a moderate oven. It is best to line j 

the tin with well greased paper, and care must be used that the I 

cake will not burn at the bottom. These cakes will keep a year ! 

or more. Do not bake in too large tins. Use half the quanti- | 
ties if less cake is wanted. — [Anon., N. Y. 

Angel Food Cake 

A moist and tender angel cake is one of the best things in 
the art of cookery. Remember that angel food should never be 



WHITE CAKES WITH EGGS 37 



eaten the same day it is baked. It is better when a week old. 
The best that was ever baked will be tough when it is fresh. 
Keep in tightly closed tin box. The recipe which I have used 
with success is as follows: Add a pinch salt to the whites of 
9 eggs and beat till partly stiff, then add ^^ teasp cream tartar 
and beat till very stiff. Fold in gradually and very carefully 
1 lyi cups granulated sugar that has been sifted several times. 
Sift 1 cup best pastry flour half doz times, and fold lightly into 
the sugar and eggs. Lastly add 1 teasp vanilla extract, and 
pour the batter into an unbuttered pan which has been lightly 
dredged with flour. Bake for 35 to 50 minutes, and when done 
do not remove from pan until the cake is almost cold, after 
which it can be easily loosened and lifted out. — [H. E. S., Ind. 

Three In One Cake 

This recipe will answer for a French cream cake, a whipped 
cream cake, or a roil jelly cake. Beat 3 eggs and 1 cup sugar 
thoroughly, then add 2 tablesp cold water and l^^ cups flour 
sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Always stir this batter 
in one direction. For a French cream cake bake in two round 
layers. Split the cakes, while warm, and put together with 
the following cream filling: Put I scant pt milk in a double 
boiler to heat. Dissolve 2 tablesp cornstarch in a little cold 
milk, add 1 beaten egg, and i/^ cup sugar. Then pour this 
mixture into the hot milk and stir constantly until thick. Add 
piece of butter size of an egg, remove from the fire and flavor 
to taste, and spread between the layers. For the roll jelly cake 
bake in a long bread pan in a not too hot oven, or the edges 
will be hard and the cake will break when you try to roll it up. 
When done turn out on a clean towel, spread with jelly or 
jam, and roll up, leaving the cloth around the cake until it is 
cool. For whipped cream cake, bake in two round layers, split 
them while warm and put them together with sweetened 
whipped cream flavored to taste. This is best eaten fresh. — • 
[Mrs. A. I., la. 

Fig Pound Cake 

Cream % lb butter (or half butter and half shortening) 
with 1 lb brown sugar, add yolks of G eggs, one at a time, beat- 
ing thoroughly, i/^ pt sour milk, in which dissolve I scant teasp 
soda, 1 lb flour sifted with i/^ teasp nutmeg, and 1 lb each 
chopped figs and raisins, dredged with flour. Lastly fold in 
the beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake slowly. — [Mrs. A. C, W. Va. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Soak 2 cups dried apples over night. Drain off water, chop 
fine, and cook in 2 cups molasses until thick. When cool add 2 
cups sugar, 2 teasp each nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice, 1 cup 



38 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



shortening, 2 cups sour milk with 2 teasp soda dissolved in it | 
and flour to make a stiff batter. This is an excellent recipe, j 
and makes four large loaves. — [I. A. S., Me. i 

i 
Prune Cake ' \ 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg and 1 yolk, 4 tablesp sour cream, ; 
and flour enough to make a thick batter, sifted with 1 teasp \ 
each of soda and cinnamon, i/^ teasp cloves and % teasp nut- ' 
meg. Lastly mix in 1 cup stewed prunes pitted and chopped. • 
Bake in layers and put together with frosting made with the ; 
white of the egg and sugar, or use whipped cream. This is ex- j 
cellent. — [L. A. B. ! 

Blackberry Jam Cake 

Cream 1% cups sugar with ^^ cup shortening, add 3 eggs, i 
leaving out the white of one for the frosting, % cup sour milk, 
in which dissolve 1 scant teasp soda, 2^^ cups flour sifted with ^ 
1 teasp cinnamon, and last of all I cup of blackberry jam, mix- ] 
ing it no more than necessary after adding jam. Sweet milk ! 
may be used instead of sour milk by leaving out the soda and j 
adding 1 teasp baking powder instead. This is a delicious I 
cake. — [Miss E. C, Ore. ; 

Strawberry Jam Cake ! 

Cream V2 cup butter with 1 cup brown sugar, add yolks \ 
3 eggs, 5 tablesp sour milk or cream, in which dissolve 1 teasp 
soda, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and l^ teasp ' 
each cloves and nutmeg, 1 cup strawberry jam, and lastly the i 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in layers, and put together with i 
boiled icing.— [E. B. U., Mo. j 

Roll Cake With Buttermilk. \ 

I 
Mix 1 egg with ^ cup sugar and add Vz teasp soda dis- 
solved in 6 tablesp buttermilk; then mix in 6 tablesp flour and 
bake in a narrow, shallow tin. When done turn out on a 
towel, spread with jelly, or any preferred filling, while the 
cake is still warm, and roll it up, leaving the towel around it 
until the cake is cold. This makes a small roll and is very 
nice.— [Mrs. C. E. P., N. Y. 

Brown Loaf Cake 

Cream 2 cups brown sugar with % cup butter, (or butter 
and lard mixed), add 2 eggs, ^2 cup sour cream in which 
has been dissolved 1 teasp soda, V2 cup water, 14 cake choco- 
late dissolved in a little hot water, 1 teasp vanilla, and 2 cups 
flour. This is my favorite recipe. — [Mrs. L. L. D., Va. 



SPICE AND FRUIT CAKES 39 

Graham Cake 

Beat 1 egg with 2 tablesp sugar, add 1 teasp salt, 1 pt butter- 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and then stir in about 2 
pts graham flour to make a moderately stiff batter (flours vary- 
so that it is hard to name the exact amount). Lastly mix in 3 
tablesp melted butter and bake in a dripping pan about 30 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. B. B. M., Kan. 

Nut Layer Cake 

To V2 cup sugar add 1 egg well beaten, % cup sour cream 
in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda, ^ cup molasses, and 2 
cups flour. Bake in three layers. For filling use 1 cup thick 
sweet cream whipped until stiff, sweeten with powdered sugar, 
flavor to taste, and add I cup nut meats. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 

Chocolate Cake 

Cream ^/^ cup butter with 1 cup sugar,, add beaten yolks 2 
eggs, 1^ cup grated chocolate dissolved in a very little hot 
water, i/^ cup buttermilk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups 
flour, and lastly the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Flavor with 
vanilla and frost with white frosting. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 

Steamed Fruit Cake 

Cream V2 cup butter with l^^ cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 1 cup 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and 14 teasp each cloves and 
nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup each raisins and currants and steam 
the cake I'^A hours, after which place in moderate oven for 
15 minutes. — [L. P., 111. 

Layer Fruit and Nut Cake 

Cream 14 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, 1 cup 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, scant 2i/^ cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and ^ teasp each cloves and 
nutmeg. Next add 1 cup chopped raisins, ^^ cup candied lemon 
or orange peel, cut fine, and lastly % cup nut meats and 1 
teasp vanilla extract. Bake in layers and put together with 
caramel filling. — [L. P., 111. 

White Fruit Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar and 1^ cup butter, add 2 eggs, 1 cup but- 
termilk, and flour enough to make a stiff batter, sifted with 
1 teasp each soda and baking powder. Flavor with lemon 
extract, and lastly mix in lightly 1 cup chopped and seeded 
raisins, dredged with flour. — [L. H., Minn. 



40 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Indian Cake 

Mix 2 cups corn meal, 1 cup flour, % cup sugar, 1 teasp soda 
and 1 teasp salt. In another bowl break 3 eggs, beat them 
up, and add y2 cup melted butter which has been allowed to 
cool. Then mix in 2 cups rich sour milk and pour this liquid 
mixture into the flour and thoroughly mix the whole. Bake at 
once in flat tin pans, or as a loaf cake. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Buttermilk Fruit Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 6 tablesp melted butter, 1 tablesp 
molasses, 1 egg, well beaten, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup 
buttermilk, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and 
V2 teasp each cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup seeded 
raisins, chopped fine and dredged with flour. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. — [Mrs. W. H. B., Vt. 

Apple Pound Cake 

Boil together 2 cups chopped fresh apples, scant 1 cup but- 
ter, 1 cup molasses, and 1 cup raisins, until the fruit is well 
cooked. When this has cooled add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter- 
milk, 3y2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp cinnamon and 1 teasp 
each cloves and soda. Lastly mix in 1 well-beaten egg. — [Mrs. 
C. C, N. Y. 

Raspberry Jam Cake 

Cream y2 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 3 eggs, 3 tablesp 
sour milk, 1 teasp each soda and cinnamon, and % teasp nut- 
meg sifted with 1% cups flour. Lastly add 1 cup raspberry 
jam. Bake in a square cake tin. — [Mrs. E. P. C., Me. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake 

To 1 cup brown sugar add l^ pt thick sour cream, % teasp 
soda dissolved in 2 tablesp warm water and then stirred into 
y2 cup N O molasses, % cup flour (measured after sifting), 
and 1 tablesp each cinnamon and allspice mixed with the 
flour. Beat all these ingredients together thoroughly and add 
at the last 1 lb raisins, seeded, chopped and rolled in flour. 
Bake about iy2 hours in moderate oven. — [Mrs. D. H. F., Col. 

Eggless Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar with i/^ cup butter, add 1 cup sour milk, 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda; 2 cups flour sifted with 
y2 teasp each nutmeg and cinnamon, and 1 cup currants. — 
[Mrs. J. P., Me. 



CAKES WITHOUT EGGS 41 

Hot Water Cake (No eggs) 

Cream % cup sugar with % cup lard, add 1 cup molasses 
and 2 ^ cups flour sifted with 2 scant teasp soda and ^ teasp 
each of nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Last of all 
add 1 cup boiling water. When properly made this cake is as 
light as a feather. — [I. A. S., Me. 

Dark Cake (No eggs) 

Cream ^/^ cup butter and lard mixed, with 1 cup brown 
sugar, add 1 cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 
and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and ^^ teasp each 
cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup chopped raisins dredged 
with flour.— [Mrs. L. E. G., N. Y. 

Buttermilk Cake (No eggs) 

To 1 cup sugar add 4 tablesp melted butter, 1 cup buttermilk, 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups flour sifted with spices to 
suit taste. Lastly stir in 1 cup raisins, stoned and cut fine and 
thoroughly dredged with flour. This cake is also good with 
the spices omitted. — [Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake (No eggs) 

Boil until it thickens ^^ cup milk with 1 tablesp butter, and 
% cup chocolate. Remove from fire and when cool add 1 
cup sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved in i/^ cup milk, and flour to 
thicken to the proper consistency. Use vanilla as flavor. — 
[Mrs. E. R. S., N. Y. 

New England Cake (No eggs) 

Cream ^ cup butter or scant ^^ cup lard, or any other 
good shortening, with 1 cup light brown sugar, add ^ cup 
molasses, 1 cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 3 
cups flour sifted with i/^ teasp each spices to suit taste, y2 cup 
cleaned currants, and ^ cup raisins, seeded, cut in half, and 
dredged with flour. Bake in a moderate oven. This will make 
one large cake, or two small ones. — [Mrs. R. W., Me. 

Graham Cake (No eggs) 

Cream 1% cups brown sugar with 2 tablesp butter or 
shortening, add l*/^ cups sour milk, in which has been dis- 
solved 1 teasp soda. Mix together 2% cups graham flour, ^ 
cup white flour, 1 teasp cinnamon, % teasp cloves, and sift 
this into the first named ingredients. Lastly add 1 cup 
raisins, seeded, cut fine, and well dredged with flour. — [Mrs. 
H. I. S.. Ga. 



42 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Sour Milk Cake (No eggs) 

To 1 cup sugar add V2 cup melted butter, or butter and lard 
mixed, i/^ teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour milk, and 2 cups 
flour with spices to suit. Lastly stir in 1 cup or less seeded 
and chopped raisins, dredged with flour. The spices may be 
omitted. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Pork Cake (No eggs) 

Chop 1 lb salt fat pork (no lean) very fine, and pour over 
it 1/2 pt strong, boiling hot coffee, add 2 cups brown sugar, 
1 cup molasses, and 1 teasp soda, then sift in about 6 cups flour 
mixed with 2 teasp cinnamon, and 1 teasp each cloves and nut- 
meg. Last of all add 1 lb seeded raisins, and i/4 lb citron or 
candied orange peel cut fine. Bake in a moderate oven. This 
makes two good sized loaves. An excellent cake, and will keep 
for six months, or more. It is well to line the tin with greased 
paper or to put an asbestos mat under the pan to prevent 
burning. For the hot coffee boiling water can be substituted. 
Some cooks add y2 cup sour milk. — [Mrs. R. L. W., Mass. 

Chocolate Gingerbread (No eggs) 

Mix 1 cup molasses with ^ cup sour milk, add 1 teasp soda 
dissolved in a little warm water, 3 tablesp melted butter, 2 oz 
melted chocolate, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 *■ ^asp each 
ginger and cinnamon. Bake as a loaf cake or in layers. This 
recipe may also be used for cookies by adding more flour. — * 
[Mrs. P. O. B., Mont. 

Plain or Nut Cake (No eggs) 

Cream ^ cup butter and % cup sugar, add i/^ cup sour 
milk with scant i/^ teasp soda, and 1% cups flour sifted with 
Vz teasp cinnamon and i/4 teasp each nutmeg and cloves. 
By way of variation add either 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, or 1 cup nut meats cut fine, or both. Even when we 
have plent:^ eggs-, we always make nut cake this way. — [J. R., 
Mich. 

Fruit Cake (No eggs) 

Cream 1 cup brown sugar with scant % cup butter, add %' 
cup buttermilk in which 1 scant teasp soda has been dis- 
solved, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon, and ^ teasp 
each of cloves and nutmeg. Lastly add 1 cup chopped raisins. 
[Mrs. S. D. B., Mich. 



CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER 43 

English Walnut Cake (No butter, no eggs) 

Dissolve ^ teasp soda in 1 cup buttermilk, add 1 cup sugar, 
3 tablesp molasses and flour enough to make a medium stiff 
batter, sifted with 1 1/4 teasp cream tartar. Lastly add 1 cup 
walnut meats cut very fine. — [Mrs. A. B. H., Va. 

Apple Sauce Cake (No eggs, no milk) 

Cream 1 cup sugar and V2 cup shortening, dissolve 1 teasp 
soda in a little hot water and stir this in 1 cup sour apple 
sauce, letting it foam over into the mixing bowlj then add 1% 
cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and i/^ teasp each 
cloves and nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and then put in 1 cup 
raisins. Bake in a loaf tin about 45 minutes. This cake is 
rich, moist, and most delicious, and best of all, cheap. — [Mrs. 
N. A. D., Mass. 

Cheap Cake (No eggs, no butter) 

Here is a good cheap cake or pudding which requires no 
eggs, nor butter nor milk in the making. Put in the mixing 
bowl 1 heaping tablesp lard, and pour over this 1 cup strong 
coffee, then add 2 cups brown sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in a little hot water, 3 cups flour sifted with l^ teasp each 
cloves and nutmeg, and 1 teasp cinnamon — 1 cup raisins is an 
improvment, but can be omitted. Served warm with a good 
pudding sauce or just plain milk, this cake is excellent and 
never fails. — [Mrs. C. V. H., O. 

Emergency Cake (No butter) 

Break 2 eggs in a cup (do not beat), then fill the cup up 
with rich sour cream, empty into a mixing bowl and beat vig- 
orously, then add 1 level teasp soda, 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp any 
preferred flavoring, and 1 cup flour. Bake in two layers. This 
is a very tender and delicate cake. For a filling use scant 
% cup sugar, i/^ cup milk and 1 tablesp butter boiled together 
until it bubbles and begins to look waxy. Then remove from 
the fire, flavor and stir until it begins to thicken, and spread 
between layers and on top. — [Mrs. M. S., la. 

Molasses Gingerbread (No butter) 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour cream, 
% cup sour milk, 2 teasp soda, % teasp each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves and 3 cups flour. Bake in a biscuit pan, or 
in two small pans. Fine. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Cream Caramel Cake. (No butter.) 

To 2 well beaten eggs add 1 cup sugar and ^^ teasp soda dis- 
solved in 1 cup rich sour cream. Then mix in 2 cups flour, to 



44 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK i 

which has been added 1 teasp baking powder. Bake in layers j 

and put together with a filling made of l^^ cups brown sugar, " 

1^ cup sweet cream or milk, and 1 tablesp butter, boiled till a i 

small amount dropped in cold water will form a soft ball. J 

Then remove from fire and stir it until it begins to thicken, and | 

spread over the baked layers. — [Mrs. D. L. T., S. D. > 

French Date Cake (No butter) j 

Cream 1 cup sugar with yolks of 3 eggs, add 1 scant cup I 
flour sifted with 1 scant teasp baking powder, then add 1 cup ' 
chopped dates, 1 cup chopped walnuts, and lastly the whites j 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf tin. Serve I 
with whipped, sweetened cream flavored with vanilla. — [A. H., i 
Wis. 4 

Cream Cake (No butter) I 

To 1 cup thick sweet cream add 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, and \ 
2% cups flour sifted with l^/^ teasp baking powder. Bake in i 
layers and as a filling use 1 cup cream whipped stiff with 1 , 
cup sugar added and a few drops of vanilla to flavor. It is ! 
best not to prepare the cream filling until shortly before \ 
serving. — [Mrs. G. M., Ore. ] 

Sunshine Cake (No butter) 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs until stiff and add gradually 1 cup \ 
sugar, beating well, then 3 tablesp ^cold water and 1 teasp 
lemon extract or lemon juice. Next mix 1 Vz tablesp cornstarch 
with 1 teasp baking powder and 1 scant cup sifted flour. Add j 
these ingredients slowly to the above mixture and lastly fold j 
in the stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs. My friends pronounce 
this the best sponge cake they have ever tasted. — [Mrs. M. | 
H., N. J. j 

Sour Cream Spice Cake (No butter) | 

Mix thoroughly % cup each sugar, molasses, thick sour ■ 
cream and buttermilk, add 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little i 
warm water, then sift in 2 cups flour, mixed with 1 teasp each ; 
salt and cinnamon, and ^/^ teasp allspice and cloves. Flavor j 
with 1 teasp lemon extract. Bake as loaf cake or in three i 
layers and put together with icing. — [Mrs. B. B. M., Kan. j 

Rolled Sponge Cake (No butter) \ 

To 4 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sugar, 4 tablesp water, and ] 
1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Bake in a | 
long, narrow, shallow pan. When done turn out on a clean • 
towel, and spread with any preferred jelly, or cake filling. ' 
Roll up, and then roll in a towel to keep it in shape until it is 
cold. — [Mrs. B. P. B., Pa. 



JELLY AND BUTTERLESS CAKES 45 

Roll Jelly Cake (No butter) 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1 scant cup sugar, 4 tablesp cold 
water, and l^^ cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. 
Bake in a long, narrow, shallow tin, in a rather quick oven. 
When done remove from tin, place on a clean white towel, 
spread with jelly, and roll it up. Leave the towel rolled around 
it until the cake is cold. Dust with powdered sugar before 
serving. — [Mrs. C. G. S. 

Inexpensive Fruit Cake 

Cream 2 cups brown sugar and 1 cup white sugar with scant 
% cup shortening, add 2 eggs, (one will do), li^ cups butter- 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda (or li^ cups black coffee 
and 3 teasp baking powder), add flour to make the dough stiff 
enough so it will hardly drop from spoon. Sift with the flour 
1 teasp each cinnamon and ginger and a little less of cloves. 
Lastly add 1 cup each raisins and currants v/ell dredged with 
flour. Bake two hours in moderate oven. I use milk pans. 
When the cake is cool cover with the following icing: Boil scant 
% cup white sugar and scant i/^ cup sweet milk until it hard- 
ens when dropped from end of spoon. Then remove from fire 
and add 1 teasp vanilla and % cup each chopped seeded raisins 
and walnuts, or any other nut meat. Beat until it begins to 
harden and then spread quickly over the cake. This cake will 
keep for months and is better when two or three weeks old, 
than when fresh. — [L. J. P., Ore. 

Soft Gingerbread 

Cream % cup shortening with ^ cup sugar, add 2 eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour 
milk, in which dissolve 2 scant teasp soda, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 1 tablesp cinnamon and 1 teasp each clove and 
nutmeg. — [Mrs. L. E. G., N. Y. 

Hard Gingerbread 

To 1 cup brown sugar, add 1 cup butter and lard mixed, 1 pt 
molasses, 2 teasp baking soda dissolved in 1 cup hot water, 
and 1 tablesp each of ginger and cinnamon, and 1 teasp cloves, 
sifted with flour enough to roll out nicely. Cut in small 
pieces about V2 inch thick. — [Mrs. B. P. B., Pa. 

Gingerbread or Loaf Cake 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour 
cream and 1 tablesp ginger sifted with 2 cups flour. This recipe 
may be varied by using sugar instead of molasses. It also 
makes a good dark loaf cake by omitting the ginger and add- 
ing other spices to taste, with a few raisins. — [Mrs. G. H. W., 
N. H. 



4 6 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cocoanut Gingerbread 

To 1 cup molasses add ^^ cup boiling water and 2^^ cups 
flour sifted with 1 teasp each ginger and soda. Beat well, 
then add i/4 cup melted butter and beat again until smooth. 
Bake in two layers in a moderate oven. Make a frosting of 
1 cup powdered sugar wet with cream and flavor with vanilla. 
Spread over the cake sCnd sprinkle while still moist with grated 
or shredded cocoanut. — [Mrs. A. S., N. Y. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 2 scant cups sugar, add 4 or 5 
eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 pt flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder, 
1 cup grated fresh cocoanut, and flavor with i/^ teasp almond 
extract. Bake in a loaf tin. — [A. H., Wis. 

Potato Spice Cake 

Cream ^^ cup batter with 2 cups sugar, add 3 eggs, 1^/4 
cups milk, % cup grated chocolate, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 
% lb almonds, chopped, and 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp 
cinnamon, l^^ teasp each cloves and nutmeg, and 2 teasp 
baking powder. — [A. H., Wis. 

Quick Sponge Cake 

Beat 3 eggs separately until very light, add 1 cup sugar 
and beat again, 1 tablesp milk and 1 cup flour sifted with 
1 teasp baking powder. Bake in a shallow pan. — [Mrs. W. 
H. B., Mass. 

Velvet Sponge Cake 

Boil 1 lb sugar with 6 tablesp water until clear; then pour 
this hot syrup into the well-beaten whites of 6 eggs, beating 
vigorously all the while, and after the mixture has cooled 
some, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, and lastly 2 cups flour, 
but no baking powder. — [Mrs. J. S. W., Pa. 

Lemon Sponge Cake 

Beat to a cream 1 scant cup sugar and yolks of 4 eggs, add 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, stir until creamy and then 
add the beaten whites of 4 eggs and mix in lightly without 
"beating 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. It is 
best to add whites of the eggs and the flour little by little, 
alternately. The mixing must be done very lightly, as beat- 
ing the batter makes this cake tough. — [Anon., Col. 



SPONGE AND EGG CAKES 47 

Fairy Sponge Cake 

This is an excellent cake to eat with fruits, ices, creams» 
etc. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 2 cups sugar until very- 
light, add to this the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, then 
scant % cup boiling water in which 1 tablesp butter has been 
dissolved. Then add gradually 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp 
baking powder, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
It is best to sift the flour several times, as this makes a finer 
grained cake. Bake in a loaf tin, and frost with a boiled 
icing. — [Mrs. A. S., Tenn. 

Gold Cake — Silver Cake 

This recipe will use up in the two cakes the yolks and the 
whites of the eggs, and do away with the objection of having 
one or the other left over. For the silver cake cream i/4 cup 
butter with 1 cup white sugar, add % cup milk, 1 1/^ cups flour 
sifted with 1 teasp baking powder, and flavor with lemon 
extract. Lastly add the beaten whites of 4 eggs. For the gold 
cake cream l^ cup butter or any good shortening with 1 cup 
brown sugar, add the yolks of 4 eggs, l^ cup milk, and 2 cups 
flour sifted with 1^/^ teasp baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 
These are two fine cakes and the recipes have never 
failed me. — [Mrs. W. C, Mich. 

Huckleberry Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 3 tablesp butter, 1 egg, % cup milk, 2 
cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Lastly stir in 
1 pt fresh huckleberries. Bake in a square, shallow tin. 
This is nice warm or cold, and may be eaten' with or without 
sauce, as preferred. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Blackberry Cake 

Cream i/4 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 2 eggs, (saving 
out the white of one for icing), 4 tablesp cold water, 1 cup 
cooked blackberries, juice and all, and 2 cups flour sifted with 
1 teasp each soda and cinnamon, and % teasp cloves. Bake 
in two layers and put together with any preferred icing. This 
cake may also be baked in patty pans, the tops scooped out 
when cold, and the cakes filled with sweetened whipped 
cream. It is nice to serve these little cakes for dessert with 
a generous portion of whipped cream heaped about 
them on the plates. Do not whip the cream until shortly before 
serving. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Fresh Fruit Cake 

This cake can be made with fresh berries of any kind, or 
ivith pitted cherries. Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, 
add 3 beaten eggs, 1 pt milk and enough flour to make a stifC 



48 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



batter, sifted with 3 teasp baking powder. Then dredge the 
fruit with flour and stir in batter the last thing. Bake in 
dripping pan. This is nice eaten warm, with butter or cream. 
[Mrs. O. T., Mich. 

Cornstarch Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar with ^^ cup butter, add ^ cup sweet 
milk, ^ cup cornstarch and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp 
cream tartar and scant i/^ teasp soda. Flavor to taste and 
lastly add beaten whites of 3 eggs. May be used for layer or 
loaf cake. — [E. T., Va. 

Ribbon Cake 

Cream 1^ cups sugar with % cup butter, add 3 eggs, % 
cup milk, and two cups flour sifted with scant 2 teasp baking 
powder. Take out one-third of the batter and add to it spices 
to taste and ^ cup currants. Bake two light layers and one 
dark layer and put together with jelly or any preferred icing. — ' 
[L. W. D., Mass. 

Children's Cake 

Cream % cup sugar and 3 tablesp butter, add 1 e^^, ^^ cup 
milk, and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Bake 
in a square tin. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon on top. This is 
a plain, wholesome cake, much liked by children. — [F. 
I. L., Wis 

Cheap Walnut Cake 

Cream scant % cup butter or any other good shortening 
with 1 cup sugar, add 2 beaten eggs, ^ cup milk, li/^ cups 
flour sifted with 2 scant teasp baking powder. Lastly add 1 
cup chopped walnuts. Bake in a square tin, and when cold 
frost, mark off in small squares and put half a walnut on each 
square. — [Mrs. S. E. P., Wash. 

Mocha Cake 

Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar gradually, and 1^ cups 
flour sifted with 1 teasp cream tartar and % teasp soda; lastly 
add % cup boiling milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp butter. 
Beat until light and bake in two layers. When cool put 
together with the following filling : Cream ^ cup butter with 
1 cup powdered "sugar, add 2 teasp strong black coffee, 2 teasp 
powdered cocoa and 1 teasp vanilla extract. Frost top of cake 
with any preferred icing. — [P. H. K., Pa. 




MIXING THE CAKE BATTER. 



I 




ICING THE FINI&HED CAKE. 



MARBLE AND FEATHER CAKE 4» 



Tri-colored Marble Cake 

Cream % cup butter and 1 cup sugar, add yolks 3 eggs, one 
at a time, and beat to a cream, then add 1 cup flour sifted 
with Vz teasp baking powder, and beat well. Next add % 
cup milk and beat the mixture to a creamy consistency. Then 
sift in another cup flour with i/^ teasp baking powder and lastly 
stir in whites of 3 eggs. Flavor with lemon extract. The mix- 
ture should not be stiffer than ordinary cake batter. Into a 
well-greased and flour-dredged cake tin pour about one-third 
of the cake mixture, and into the remaining batter put a few 
drops of red coloring (I use the capsules which come with 
gelatine), and 1 teasp vanilla extract. Beat all this well 
together, and drop half of the pink batter in spoonsful unevenly 
over the white batter in the tin. To the remaining batter 
in the mixing bowl now add 1 tablesp grated chocolate or 
cocoa, and after stirring well, pour over the first two layers in 
the tin. Bake in a medium oven about 50 minutes to 1 hour. 
When strawberries or raspberries are in season the pink batter 
can be colored with fruit juices. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Date Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 2 well-beaten 
eggs, V2 cup sweet milk, and 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp 
baking powder. Lastly add ^ lb dates cut in fine pieces and 
dredged with flour. Flavor with rose and frost with white 
frosting, — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 

Cocoa Cake 

Cream % cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 2 egg^, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup sweet milk, in which 
dissolve 1 teasp soda, Vz cup powdered cocoa, and 2 cups sifted 
flour. Bake in loaf. — [Mrs. L. E. G.. N. Y. 

Plain Raisin Cake 

Cream 2 cups sugar with 1 cup butter, add 1 cup milk and 
SVz cups flour sifted with 3 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp cin- 
namon, and Vz teasp each cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Lastly 
fold in 1 cup seeded raisins well dredged with flour, also some 
citron, If desired. This makes one large cake or two loaves. — 
[M. E. A., O. 

Feather Cake 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 tablesp butter, 1 egg, % cup sweet 
milk, in which dissolve V2 teasp soda, 1^ cups flour sifted 
with 1 teasp each cream tartar and cinnamon, and V2 teasp 
each cloves and nutmeg. This makes a nice plain cake. I 
sometimes add % cup raisins for a change. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida, 



50 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Rich Pound Cake 

Cream % lb butter with 1 lb sugar, add 7 or 8 eggs, beat- 
ing the yolks and whites separately, and lastly add 1 scant lb 
flour sifted with 1 teasp soda and 2 teasp cream tartar. Bake 
in a slow oven. — [Mrs. A. L. P., Va. 

Spice Cake 

Cream together 1 cup sugar with 1 cup shortening; add 2 
eggs, 1 cup molasses and 1 cup strong, black coffee. Next add 
4 cups flour sifted w^ith 2 teasp each of baking powder, allspice 
and cinnamon, and 1 teasp each of cloves and nutmeg. This 
Tvill keep for weeks. — [Mrs. C. E. P., N. Y. 

Marble Spice Cake 

For the white part cream i^ cup butter with 1 scant cup 
sugar. Add 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp bak- 
ing powder, and lastly the whites of 4 eggs. For the dark 
part cream ^^ cup shortening with 1 cup brown sugar, add 
yolks 4 eggs, 1 scant cup molasses, 1 cup milk, and 3 cups flour 
sifted with 2 teasp baking powder and spices to suit. Drop in 
well greased tins by tablespoonsful alternately the light and 
the dark batter. Bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. C. E. D., 111. 

Ribbon Layer Cake 

For the white part cream ^^ cup butter with 1 cup sugar, 
add V2 cup sweet milk and 1% cups flour sifted with 1 teasp 
baking powder. Lastly fold in 3 egg whites beaten stiff, and 
flavor to suit. For the dark part cream i^ cup shortening, 1 
cup sugar, add the yolks of eggs and % cup sour milk, in 
which 1 teasp soda has been dissolved, l^/^ cups flour sifted 
with cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves to taste, and lastly add 
1 cup seeded raisins dredged with flour. Have the dark part 
rather stiff and put in a well greased tin, pouring the light 
batter on top of the dark. When cold ice with pink frosting. — 
[Mrs. M. I. R.. Mo. 

Devil's Food 

I have found this recipe to be always successful. Into a 
double boiler or in a pail which fits into the top of a teakettle, 
put V2 cup sweet milk, i/^ cup sugar, 1 well-beaten egg, and 2 
squares chocolate shredded fine or broken into small pieces. 
Stir and let this cook until it is thick and smooth, stirring it all 
the while. When it has thickened, remove from the fire, and 
let cool. In a mixing bowl cream V2 cup sugar with ^ cup 
iDutter, add 2 well-beaten eggs, % cup milk, 1 teasp soda dis- 
solved in a very little hot water, and scant 1 % cups flour. Fla- 
vor with vanilla. Lastly add the chocolate mixture, stir all 
yrell together and bake for about % hour in a moderate oven. 



POUND AND RAISED CAKE 51 



Can al&o be baked in layers and put together with white frost- 
ing. — [Mrs. F. S., N. y. 

Old-Fashioned Pound Cake 

Cream 1 lb butter with 1 lb sugar, add one at a time the 
yolks of 1 doz eggs, 1 lb flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. 
Add flour to the above mixture alternately with the whites of 
the eggs. Bake in loaf tins lined with greased paper all around, 
and put a sheet of greased paper over the tin while baking. 
If the oven seems too hot, set a pan of water on the grate above 
the cake. The success of this cake depends upon thorough 
creaming of the butter and sugar, thorough stirring after each 
egg yolk is added, and careful blending of the flour and egg 
whites. The oven should be moderately heated, and the 
baking watched carefully. — [Mrs. W. B. B., Ga. 

Dutch Cake 

To about 1 qt light bread sponge add 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
melted butter size of an egg, V2 or % cup lukewarm water, 
and flour enough to make a soft dough. Let it rise until it is 
light, then spread on buttered pie plates, or milk pans, and 
after rising again, bake in a moderate oven. When done wet 
the top slightly with water, sprinkle with sugar and cinna- 
mon, dot with pieces of butter, and return to the oven for a 
few minutes. The same dough will answer for buns, cinnamon 
rolls, and old-fashioned rusks. — [Mrs. C. S., Kan. 

Raised Coffee Cake 

Scald 2 cups milk, add % cup butter, '^k cup sugar, and 1 
teasp salt. When lukewarm add 1 compressed cake of yeast, 
dissolved in i/^ cup lukewarm water, 2 well-beaten eggs, and 
enough flour to make a stiff batter. Lastly add 1 cup raisins 
and 1/^ cup citron cut fine. Let rise over night. In the morn- 
ing stir up the mixture again and spread in buttered dripping 
pans to a depth of about % inch; cover and let rise, and then 
spread over the top a frosting made as follows: Melt y^ 
cup butter, add % cup sugar and 2 teasp cinnamon. When 
the sugar is about half melted add 6 tablesp flour. Spread this 
mixture over the top of cakes and bake from 20 to 30 minutes. 
This makes two good-sized cakes. — [Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 



52 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fillings and Fpostitij^s 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs light, add 4 tablesp powdered sugar 
and spread while cake is warm. — [Mrs. W. R. C, Pa. 

Take confectioner's sugar (not powdered sugar) and wet 
with enough sweet cream or milk so it will spread easily. 
Flavor to taste. — [Mrs. J. C. McC, Vt. 

Dissolve 1 tablesp cornstarch in 1 cup milk, beat 1 egg well 
with Vz cup sugar and add. Cook until thick and then flavor 
with 1 teasp vanilla. Spread when cool. — [Mrs. W. K., Cal. 

Boil together until it thickens 1 cup sugar and 1 cup sour 
cream. Remove from fire and add 1 cup nut meats. I some- 
times use chopped dates or figs for variety. — [Mrs. G. F., Minn. 

Put in a double boiler l^^ cups milk, butter size of walnut, 
% cup sugar, 1 egg and scant l^ cup flour. Boil until it 
thickens, stirring constantly. Flavor to taste. — [Mrs. S. E. 
Y., Me. 

Boil slowly about % to % hour 1 cup sweet cream with 2 
cups maple sugar. Remove from fire, let it cool, then stir in 
1 cup chopped English walnuts and beat until creamy. — [Mrs. 
J. C. H., Vt. 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 e^K, 2 or 3 grated sour apples and the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon. Boil until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Cool before spreading on cake. — [Mrs. 
R. N. P., N. y. 

To the beaten white of 1 e^^ add 1 cup sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly and then add 1 cup strawberries, crushed. Beat 
together with an e^^ beater until it is as thick as whipped 
cream. — [O. A., Cal. 

Boil until it candies 1 cup brown sugar, ^ cup sweet milk, 
1 tablesp flour and 1 tablesp butter. Remove from fire, beat 
until creamy and spread between layers and on top of cake. — 
[Mrs. R. A. G., N. Y. 

Soak 1 teasp granulated gelatine in 3 tablesp hot water. 
When dissolved and cooled off a little, add 1 cup confectioner's 
sugar and beat until smooth. Spread at once, or this icing will 
set. — [Miss L. E. F., Can. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 53 

Cook in a double boiler until it thickens 1 pt sweet cream 
or rich milk, 1 egg, 1 tablesp cornstarch and pinch of salt. Stir 
constantly and after it has thickened remove from fire and 
flavor to taste. — [Miss B. C, la. 

Boil until it threads V2 lb maple sugar and V2 cup milk. 
Remove from fire and pour the hot syrup over the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Stir until it begins to thicken, then spread quickly 
between layers of cake. — [E. L. McG., Mich. 

Stir well and let boil until it thickens 1 cup sugar, I cup 
sweet milk, 4 tablesp grated chocolate or cocoa, and yolks of 2 
eggs. Remove from fire, add 1 teasp vanilla, beat well, and 
spread between layers. — [Mrs. R. A. G., N. Y. 

Set 1 cup thick, sweet cream on ice until it is cold and stiff 
and whip with an egg beater as you would egg white, then 
add sugar and flavoring to taste. It is best not to prepare this 
filling until shortly before wanted for serving. — [Mrs. V. A. H., 
N. D. 

To 1 cup maple sugar add 1 cup coffee sugar and 1 cup sweet 
cream. Heat slowly until it dissolves and then boil steadily 
for about V2 hour. Remove from fire, add 1 cup chopped pecan 
nuts, stir until cold, and spread between cakes. — [Mrs. J. C. 
H., Vt. 

To y2 cup sugar add 2 tablesp flour, a little grated orange 
rind, % cup orange juice, 2 teasp lemon juice, 1 teasp butter 
and 1 beaten egg. Mix in order given and cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thick. Cool before spreading 
on cake. — [Mrs. J. S. D., N. Y. 

Here is a good substitute when cream is not at hand: Scrape 
or grate 1 good-sized apple into 1 cup of sugar. Keep on mix- 
ing to prevent the apple from turning dark, then add the 
beaten white of 1 egg and beat for about 20 to 30 minutes. Add 
vanilla flavor. — [Mrs. C. W. J., O. 

Melt 1 teasp butter with 1 tablesp flour, stir in the grated, 
rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 2 lemons, with 1 cup sugar, 1 
egg and V2 cup water. Boil until it thickens and spread 
between layers of cake. This will taste better if kept a day or 
two before cake is cut. — [E. L., Neb. 

Cook until it is thick and ready to candy, 2 cups brown 
sugar, V2 cup thick cream, and butter size of walnut. Remove 
from fire, beat until cool and add 1 teasp vanilla. Sometimes 
I use white sugar and lemon flavor, and add grated cocoanut 
at the last. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 



54 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Boil 1 cup sugar with % cup water until it threads, then 
pour on the beaten white of 1 egg and beat until smooth, after 
which add i/4 cup each of figs and raisins cut fine, 14 cup wal- 
nut meats cut fine, and ^ cup grated cocoanut. Spread 
between and on top of cake. — [Mrs. H. M., Mo 

Put white of 1 egg in a deep bowl, add 1 cup sugar and 1 cup' 
red raspberries crushed and the juice drained off. Whip for 
about y2 hour. If beaten long enough, this filling will be stiff 
and light, like whipped cream. It does not soak into the 
cake at all, and is truly delicious. — [Mrs. S. C. S., N. Y. 

This makes a nice, glossy frosting for the top of a cake. 
Boil together for a few minutes 1 heaping tablesp grated choco- 
late, 2 tablesp sugar and 1 tablesp boiling water. Remove from 
fire, flavor with vanilla, and spread on cake before icing is cold, 
using a broad-bladed knife dipped in cold water to smooth it. 
If the icing seems too thick, add a little more boiling water, 
but never use cold water. — [Miss U. R., la. 

Soak 1 scant tablesp granulated gelatine in enough cold 
water to cover it. When it is soft add scant % cup boiling 
water and stir till dissolved, then add % cup sugar and any 
preferred flavoring. Beat with an egg beater until the mix- 
ture is white and begins to get firm. Before it gets too stiff,, 
beat into it 1 pt of whipped cream. The cream should be 
whipped first, and the gelatine mixture should be added to it 
gradually. This filling will keep stiff indefinitely. Be careful 
not to use too much gelatine. — [Mrs. K. R. F., Tex. 




Gookies, Qraekers, and Small Gakes 

O keep the cookie jar replenished keeps, 
many a mother and housewife busy and 
often necessitates a baking every week, for 
not only the young folks but "children of an', 
older growth" frequently manifest their 
fondness for these wholesome little dainties 
by surreptitious inroads on the reserve supply, much to the 
dismay of the indulgent cook, who, however, apparently 
ignores these small depredations and wisely looks upon 
them as a tribute to her skill. Every one has his or her 
favorite cookie, but a little variety is generally welcomed 
by all. If you find among the following recipes any that 
are new to you, but "sound good," why not try them? A 
change will vary the monotony for the cook and provide a 
delightful surprise for the family. 

Brown Cookies 

Cream % cup shortening with 2 cups brown sugar, add 1 
egg, 1 heaping teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour cream, and 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Bake in hot oven and 
watch closely, so they will not burn. — [Mrs. J. P., Minn. 

Chocolate Cookies 

Cream % cup butter or shortening with 2 cups brown sugar, 
add 2 eggs, 1 scant cup grated chocolate, melted, and flour 
enough to roll very thin, sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. — 
[Mrs. C. E. G.. Ariz. 

Christmas Cookies 

The ingredients required for these cookies are 1 qt molasses,, 
1 pt sugar, 1 tablesp lard, 2 teasp each soda, cinnamon and' 
caraway seed, and 1 tablesp cloves. Mix the soda and spices, 
in the flour. Boil the molasses and pour over the flour, melt 
the lard and put in last. — [M. K. G., la. 

Graham Cookies 

To 2 cups sugar add 2 cups sour cream, 5 cups graham- 
flour sifted, 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp molasses, 2 teasp each' 

55 



56 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

soda and cinnamon, and 1 teasp salt. Have ready well greased 
tins and drop batter on it by teaspoonsful about 2 or 3 inches 
apart. Dip the teaspoon in cold water every time before dip- 
ping it into the batter again. Sprinkle the cookies with sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. A. W. T., Mich. 

Buttermilk Molasses Cookies 

Cream 1 cup lard with 1 cup brown sugar, add 2 cups 
molasses, 2 even tablesp soda dissolved in 1 cup buttermilk, 1 
teasp each ginger and cinnamon, sifted with flour enough to 
make a stifC dough. Let stand over night, roll out, cut, spread 
with sugar, and bake in a quick oven. This is a never-failing 
recipe which has been used a long time in our family. — [E. 
M. C, Mich. 

Coffee Ginger Cookies 

Thoroughly mix 1 cup shortening with 2 cups sugar, add 1 
cup molasses and 3 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup hot, black 
coffee. Let cool, then add 1 beaten egg, 2 teasp vanilla, a little 
salt, and flour enough to roll, sifted with 3 teasp ginger. Roll 
soft, cut, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. Y. 

Maple Sugar Ginger Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter, add 2 cups maple sugar rolled fine, 1 
«gg, % cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, flour 
enough to make a dough that can be rolled, sifted with 1 teasp 
«ach salt and ginger, and y2 teasp cream tartar. Roll ^^ inch 
thick, cut in squares, and bake in a slow oven. — [M. P., N. H. 

Ginger Cookies (No eggs) 

Cream 1 cup shortening with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup hot water, in which dissolve 2 teasp soda, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, sifted with 2 teasp each ginger 
and cinnamon. Let this batter stand a while, so as to give the 
flour a chance to swell, as the hot water takes the place of eggs. 
Use no more flour than necessary to form a soft dough for 
rolling out. These are excellent and economical cookies, and 
the only trick is to use as little flour as possible. — [Mrs. B. G., 
Mich. 

Soft Ginger Cookies 

Stir together 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup shortening, 
1 egg, 1 yolk of an egg, 1 tablesp vinegar, 1 heaping teasp 
ginger, 1 level teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
and flour enough to make stiff. Roll, cut out the cookies, and 
dip the tops in the white of an egg (do not beat the white), 
then dip in sugar. Bake in a moderate oven and watch care- 
fully, as they burn easily. — [Mrs. J. J. M., 111. 



MOLASSES AND MAPLE SYRUP COOKIES 57 



Sorghum Cookies 

Put 1 pt best sorghum, or molasses, in an agate pan with 
2 heaping tablesp butter, and let it heat to the boiling point. 
Then stir in 1 pt flour, and when cold add 2 eggs, well beaten, 
1 teasp each cinnamon and ginger, and 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in 1 tablesp sharp vinegar. Also add a little cloves, if the fla- 
voring is liked, and then flour enough to roll thin. Bake in a 
moderate oven. — [E. W., Wis. 

Molasses Cookies 

Beat 1 egg, add 1 cup molasses, 3 tablesp vinegar, scant 1 
cup lard, 3 teasp soda dissolved in i^ cup hot water, 1 tablesp 
ginger sifted with flour enough to make a dough that can be 
handled. Roll y2 inch thick, cut in any desired shape, and 
bake in hot oven, watching carefully so they will not burn. — • 
[I. A. S., Me. 

Marbled Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 4 well-beaten eggs 
and 3 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp soda and 2 teasp cream 
tartar (or substitute for the soda and cream tartar 2 teasp- 
baking powder). Divide the dough and in one half mix i^ 
cup grated, melted chocolate and to the other half add the 
juice and grated rind of an orange. Add more flour to each 
half if necessary. Combine both portions into a streaked lump, 
and roll thin. Bake in rather hot oven. — [Mrs. J. W., N. Y. 

Popcorn Cookies 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 teasp 
vanilla, % teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 1 teasp 
cream tartar sifted with flour to make a dough stiff enough to 
roll thin. Bake in a quick oven. When these are properly 
made you will readily see why I call them popcorn cookies. — 
[Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Eggless Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 1 cup milk, and 
1 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a 
dough of the proper consistency. These will keep nice and 
fresh for weeks. — [A. C. S., Miss. 

Maple Syrup Cookies 

To 1 beaten egg add T cup maple syrup, 1 teasp soda dis- 
solved in a little hot water, 6 tablesp melted lard, salt and 
ginger to taste, and flour enough to make a dough that can be 
handled. — [L A. S., Me. 



-58 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK \ 



Butter Cookies 

1 
Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg and 4 tablesp ' 
sour milk, in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda. Beat this miX' ! 
ture well, then add enough flour so the dough will not stick to 
the hands. Roll very thin, cut, and bake in a hot oven.— ^ \ 
[Mrs. B. W., Wis. \ 

Anise Cookies j 

To 1 lb sugar (scant) add 1 tablesp butter, 3 or 4 eggs, %' \ 
<5up almonds, blanched and chopped, Yz teasp anise seed, and i 
flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead, sifted with 1 ] 
teasp baking powder and a little salt. Form in a loaf about 4 : 
inches wide and 1 Inch thick, let stand over night, and in the | 
morning cut up in slices and bake. — [A. H., Wis. ] 

Cocoanut Cookies 

Beat 2 eggs until light, add gradually 1 cup sugar, ^ cup i 
grated or dessicated cocoanut, 1 cup thick, sweet cream, and j 
3 cups flour sifted with 3 level teasp baking powder and 1 i 
teasp salt. Roll to % inch thick, sprinkle with some cocoanut I 
and then roll down to % inch thick, and cut out and bake. — < ; 
[Mrs. C. J. C, Wis. ; 

Buttermilk Cookies (No eggs) i 

Cream scant % cup lard with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup butter- i 
milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 teasp lemon or vanilla \ 
extract, salt to taste and flour to stiffen. Roll out quite thick, j 
cut, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. J. H. W., Me. j 

Wheat Cookies (No eggs) ] 

Cream V2 cup butter with 2 scant cups sugar, add 1 teasp ] 
soda dissolved in V2 cup hot water, then add 2 cups crushed j 

(steamed) wheat. Roll thin like ginger snaps, and bake in j 
moderate oven. Rolled oats may be substituted for the wheat. ' 

[CM., Pa. 

Walnut Cookies 

Cream ^^ cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, ^ cup ; 
milk, 1 cup walnut meats cut fine, 1 teasp vanilla, and 1 teasp j 
baking powder mixed with flour enough to make a stiff drop I 
batter. Drop in little cakes on greased tins. — [Mrs. R. C, | 
. Mass. I 

Peanut Cookies j 

Cream 4 tablesp butter with ^ cup sugar, add 2 eggs, 4 \ 
tablesp milk, 1 teasp lemon extract, a little salt, and 1 cup I 

i 



OATMEAL COOKIES AND MACAROONS 59 



flour sifted withi 2 teasp baking powder. Lastly add 1 cup 
chopped peanuts. Drop on buttered tins by tablespoonsful, 
and bake in a moderate oven. This makes about a dozen 
<;ookies.— [E. H., Wash. 

Oatmeal Jelly Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter and 1 cup lard with 1 cup white sugar 
and 1 cup brown sugar, add 8 tablesp hot water, in which 
dissolve 1 teasp soda, then stir in 6 cups oatmeal (3 put through 
the meat chopper — fine cut), and lastly add 2 cups flour. Roll, 
cut and spread with the following filling and fold over: Fill- 
iug — To 1 lb seeded and chopped raisins add 1 cup sugar and a 
little water and boil until the consistency of jelly. — [Mrs. F. 
W. R., Mich. 

Oatmeal Nut Ck>okies 

Cream scant % cup butter, add gradually 1 cup light brown 
sugar, then 2 well-beaten eggs, and 4 tablesp sweet milk. 
Next stir in 2 cups rolled oats, and when these are well mois- 
tened, add 1 cup flour sifted with 1 level teasp each soda and 
salt, also cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg to taste. Lastly add 
1 cup seeded and chopped raisins and % cup chopped nut 
meats dredged with flour. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered 
tins far enough apart so they will not crowd and run together. 
If the batter does not seem stiff enough, add more flour. — 
£Mrs. J. A. W., Mo. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Cream 1 cup butter and lard mixed, with 1% cups sugar, add 
3 eggs, % cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 
cups rolled oats, 2 cups flour, sifted with a little salt and 1 heap- 
ing teasp cinnamon. Lastly mix in 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins. Drop by spoonsful on buttered tins, and bake in a 
moderate oven. — [Mrs. M. D. M., Wash. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Beat 2 eggs light, add I cup sugar, 1 teasp vanilla, 2i^ cups 
rolled (steamed) oats, 1 teasp baking powder, a little salt, and 
1 tablesp melted butter. Drop by teaspoonsful on greased tins, 
and bake. When done slip a knife under each cookie, carefully 
remove from tin, and cool. — [Mrs. R. C, Mass. 

Jelly Jumbles 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 egg, V2 teasp 
soda dissolved in V2 cup sour milk, and flour enough to roll. 
Roll about Vz inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter and from 
half of these cut out the center with a large thimble. Spread 



60 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

jelly over the biscuit halves, cover with the doughnut halves^ 
and bake. This will make about 25 jumbles. — [Mrs. A. R. W.» 
Mass. 

Russian Rocks 

Cream 1 scant cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 3 
eggs, one at a time, l^/^ teasp soda dissolved in Vz cup boiling 
water, 1 lb seeded and chopped raisins, 1 lb nut meats, cut 
fine, V2 teasp each cinnamon and cloves, sifted with 3 cups 
flour. Drop by teaspoonsful on greased tins, and bake. — 
[M. R., Tex. 

Date Rocks 

Cream 1 cup butter with i^ cup sugar, add 3 eggs, 1 teasp 
soda dissolved in 2 tablesp water, flour enough to make a stiff 
batter, sifted with 1 teasp each cinnamon and allspice, and 
lastly add 2 lbs dates, pitted and cut fine. Drop by spoonsful 
on greased cookie pans, and when baked brush with any pre- 
ferred icing. — [Mrs. C. W. S., Wis. 

Ginger Snaps 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup molasses 
and 1 tablesp ginger, 1 teasp soda dissolved in a little water, 
and as much flour as can possibly be stirred in (not kneaded). 
Pinch off pieces about the size of a marble, roll in the hands, 
pat flat and put on well greased tins, allowing space between 
each one for spreading. Bake in a moderate oven until a nice 
brown, and leave in the pan until they cool sufiiciently to be 
"snappy." — [B. B. U., Mo. 

Ginger Snaps (No shortening) 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 scant tablesp 
soda, 1 teasp ginger, pinch salt, 1 tablesp vinegar, and flour 
enough to make a soft dough that will roll. Roll very thin and 
bake in a moderate oven. These will not harden until they 
are cold. — [Mrs. S. M. A., N. Y. 

Ginger Snaps with Buttermilk 

Thoroughly mix 1 cup lard with 1 cup sugar, add 1 pt 
molasses, 1 cup buttermilk, in which dissolve 1 tablesp soda, 
and 1 tablesp ginger sifted with enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Let stand over night, roll thin, cut, and bake in a hot 
oven. — [Mrs. D. A. P., Pa. 

CoflPee Drops 

Mix 2 cups sugar with 6 or 7 tablesp lard, add 2 eggs, 1 cup 
molasses, 2 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup hot coffee, and 1 teasp 






SPONGE, GINGER AND COCOANUT DROPS 61 



allspice sifted with about 5 cups flour. Drop by teaspsoonsful 
on buttered tins. Bake in quick oven. Remove from tins, lay 
on a board to cool, and pack away in jars with bits of cheese- 
cloth laid between each layer. — [Mrs. C. H. H., N. Y. 

Ginger Drops 

To 1 cup N O molasses add 1 cup melted shortening, i^ cup 
melted butter, ^ cup sugar, 1 tablesp ginger, scant % cup 
water, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and flour enough so 
that the batter can be dropped by teaspoonsful. Lastly add 
2 well-beaten eggs. Bake quickly. It is best to try a little 
before adding too much flour, or they will be spoiled. Drop 
the batter by spoonsful about 2 inches apart on well greased 
tins. For the sake of variety I sometimes add i/^ cup grated 
cocoanut or i/^ cup currants, or same quantity of chopped 
raisins, or 1 tablesp mixed spices and ^4 teasp black pepper. — 
£Mrs. E. J. C, Neb. 

Sponge Drops 

Beat 3 eggs together, add 1 cup sugar, and 1 cup flour 
sifted with 1 teasp cream tartar. Dissolve % teasp soda in 
a little warm water and stir this through the batter thoroughly. 
Flavor to taste. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered tins, and 
bake in a hot oven. — [Miss E. W., N. H. 

Oatmeal Drops 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup brown sugar, add 2 eggs, ^ 
cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 cups oatmeal 
and 2 cups flour sifted with I teasp cinnamon. Lastly add 1 
cup currants and Vz cup nut meats lightly dredged with flour. 
Drop by spoonsful on greased tins and bake. — [Mrs. J. L. 
K., la. 

Cocoanut Drops 

To 1 grated cocoanut add Vz to % lb sugar and 2 or 3 
eggs. Drop by teaspoonsful on buttered tins, far enough apart 
so they will not run together, and bake a light brown. — [Mrs. 
W. H. C, N. C. 

Sour Cream Cakes (No butter) 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup sugar, 1^ cups sour cream 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 1 tablesp of any preferred fla- 
voring, and 2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to 
roll. Cut "^ inch thick. These cakes will rise, and are like 
small sour-cream sponge cakes.— [Mrs. R. A. G., N. Y. 



€2 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Spice Squares 

To 1 cup sugar add 4 tablesp melted butter, 2 tablesp molas- 
ses, 1 egg, 1 cup sour milk, in which dissolve 1 level teasp 
soda, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp cinnamon and V2 teasp 
each cloves, nutmeg and allspice. Beat well for about two 
minutes and then turn into a square tin, having the batter no 
more than about 1 inch deep. Sprinkle granulated sugar on 
the top and bake about 40 minutes in moderate oven. When 
cold cut in squares and put away in stone crock. These cakes 
are better the day after they are baked. — [J. C. W., Mass. 

Cream Pnflfs 

Melt ^ cup butter in 1 cup hot water and when boiling beat 
in 1 cup flour. Stir until it works up in a ball and does not 
stick to the pan, then remove from fire and cool, after which 
stir in 3 eggs, one at a time, without beating any more than is 
necessary. Drop tablespoonsful of this mixture on buttered 
tins, and bake in a moderate oven, until light brown. When 
cool make little openings in the sides of the puffs and fill 
with whipped and sweetened cream, or with a cream made by 
boiling together 1 cup milk, 1 egg, scant ^/^ cup sugar, and 2 
tablesp flour. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. — [Miss F. C. A., 
Mass. 

Caraway-seed Cup Cakes 

Cream ^ cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 2 cups sour cream, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 2 
tablesp caraway-seed, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in well greased iron gem pans in a hot oven. Don't fill 
the gem pans more than half full. — [R. A. McD., S. D. 

Oatmeal Date Cakes 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 teasp soda 
dissolved in ^ cup water, 2 cups rolled oats, and 3 cups flour. 
Roll out ^ inch thick, spread half of the dough surface with 
dates, pitted and cut fine, turn the other half of the dough, 
over it, roll thin, cut out, and bake. — [S. E. F., Cal. 

Lady Fingers 

Beat to a cream 1 cup sugar and 2 eggs, add 4 tablesp milk, 
and flour enough to thicken, sifted with 2 scant teasp baking 
powder. Roll and cut in small pieces size of finger and bake in 
quick oven. When cold dust with powdered sugar. — [Miss I. 
J. K., Minn. 



1 



OATMEAL AND GRAHAM CRACKERS 63 



Strawberry Fingers 

Boil together 1 cup fresh, cold water and % cup butter. Into 
this boiling mixture stir 1 cup sifted flour, and stir constantly 
until it rolls together in a ball. When partly cool, add 4 eggs, 
beating in one at a time, but do not beat the eggs separately. 
Drop this mixture on a thin, buttered tin in long, narrow- 
strips, one inch apart. Bake in a moderate oven until well 
risen and a delicate brown — ^^ hour is generally enough. 
The oven door should be left open a few minutes before remov- 
ing the fingers therefrom. This will prevent them from col' 
lapsing. When cool split the fingers on one side, fill with 
crushed strawberries, or strawberry jam. Spread tops of 
fingers with an icing colored with the berry juice. — [Mrs. N. 
P., N. H. 

Sugar Crackers 

Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add 1 egg, y^. teasp 
soda dissolved in ^^ cup cold water, and 1 teasp cream tartar 
sifted with flour enough to roll. Mix soft, roll thin and bake 
quickly. These crackers are crisp and delicious. — [Mrs. E. W. 

R., N. y. 

Cheap Oatmeal Crackers 

To 1 cup rolled oats add 1 cup flour with a small pinch bak- 
ing powder, a little salt, and I tablesp sugar. Rub 2 tablesp 
butter in this mixture and just enough water to hold it 
together. Roll out thin on a floured board, cut and bake. — 
[M. L. Q., Me. 

Graham Crackers 

Cream V2, cup butter with y^ cup sugar, add y^ teasp soda 
dissolved in "^k cup water, about a handful white flour, and 
enough graham flour to roll. Roll thin, cut in any desired 
shape, and bake in a quick oven. — [R. W., Mo. 

Lemon Crackers 

-^ Cream 1 cup snortening with 2^ cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 1 
scant cup milk, 1% teasp baking ammonia, with flour enougb 
to make a stiff batter. Let stand about 3 hours to rise, then 
add a little oil of lemon, and flour enough to make batter a 
little stiffer than for cookies. Roll, cut, and bake. — [Mrs. S. 
E. F., Cal. 

Bnttermilk Crackers 

Cream % lb lard with 2 lbs sugar, add 1 teasp soda dissolved 
in scant ly^ pts buttermilk. Flavor with a little lemon, if 



€4 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



liked, and then sift in 2^/^ qts flour, or perhaps a little more, 
if needed. Roll thin, cut with a small, round cutter, prick 
with a fork, and bake in a not too hot oven. — [Mrs. N. P., N. H. 

Cheese Crackers 

Spread a layer of puff paste with some grated cheese and 
a little cayenne pepper. Double up paste, roll out again rather 
thin, and cut it with a small, round pastry cutter. Glaze with 
the white of an egg, lay the crackers on a floured tin, and bake 
in a quick oven to a pale straw color. — [Mrs. J. F. Q., N. Y. 

Whole-wheat Crackers 

Into about 2 qts whole-wheat flour, sifted with 1 tablesp 
baking powder, cut 1 cup shortening. In another bowl break 
3 eggs, beat well, add 3 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp salt and 1^ 
pts water. Add this to the flour and shortening mixture, and 
if necessary add more flour. Roll as thin as pie crust, prick 
with a fork, cut in squares or in any fancy shape desired, place 
on lightly greased tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven 
until brown. After they are done let them stand in the oven 
a few minutes with the door open, to let the crackers dry out. 
They will then be nice and crisp. Graham crackers can be 
made by following this same recipe, but substituting graham 
flour for the whole- wheat flour. — [S. E. H., Cal. 

Graham Wafers 

Cream 1 cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup sour cream, 
in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, mix soft with graham flour, roll 
thin, and bake quickly. These are wholesome and good for 
the children. — [Mrs. E. W. R., N. Y. 

Vanilla Wafers 

Cream y2 cup butter with 1 cup sugar (or use lard and but- 
ter mixed), add 1 egg, 4 tablesp sweet cream, 1 scant tablesp 
vanilla, 1 y2 teasp cream tartar and scant % teasp soda, sifted 
with flour enough to roll. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 
These are fine. — [Mrs. A. S., N. H. 

Ice Cream Wafers 

Make a meringue of the thoroughly beaten whites of 2 
€ggs, pinch salt and 2 tablesp powdered sugar, then add % 
cup chopped nut meats and spread this mixture on plain wafers 
or salted crackers, and bake only just long enough to cook 
the meringue. This is nice to serve with ice cream. — [Mrs. A. 
J. P., Wis. 



GRAHAM AND NUT WAFERS 65 



Wheat Wafers 

To 1 pt whole-wheat flour add % teasp salt, rub in 1 tablesp 
butter and make into a stiff dough with milk. Break off bits 
size of a walnut, and roll very thin. Bake in a hot oven until 
a golden brown. — [E. E. K., Mass. 

Peanut Wafers 

Cream 2 tablesp butter with % cup sugar, add 1 well-beaten 
egg, 2 tablesp milk, i/^ cup flour sifted with 1 level teasp bak- 
ing powder, and 14 teasp salt. Flavor with 1 teasp lemon 
juice, and last of all mix in V2 cup finely chopped peanuts. 
Drop by spoonsful on ungreased pans about 1 inch apart, and 
place half a peanut on top of each wafer. Bake about 12 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. This recipe will make 24 wafers. — 
[K. A. D., N. D. 

Walnut Wafers 

To 2 well-beaten eggs, add % lb each white sugar and brown 
sugar, 5^ tablesp flour sifted with ^ teasp baking powder 
and y2 teasp salt, and ^^ cup black walnut meats, cut fine. 
Drop by spoonsful on greased pans and bake. — [C. B. O., Kan. 

Delmonico Cakes 

Grate % cake (1 cup) unsweetened chocolate into a bowl, 
then pour over it V2 cup boiling water in which 1 teasp soda 
was dissolved. Let this mixture stand while preparing the 
following: Cream % cup butter with 2 cups brown sugar, add 
2 eggs, 14 cup sour milk, and 2^^ cups flour. Mix well and 
then add the chocolate mixture. Bake in shallow, square tins. 
When nearly cool, ice and cut into cubes about 2 inches square. 
[L. E. W., Mich. 

Snow Balls 

Mix % cup lard with 2 cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 2 cups sour 
milk or buttermilk, into which dissolve 1 teasp soda, and flour 
enough to make a batter a little stiffer than cake batter. Beat 
until smooth and fill well greased iron gem pans half full. 
Bake quickly in a steady, hot oven. By the time they are done 
have ready a boiled frosting and frost the tops and sides of 
the little cakes by inserting a fork in the bottom of each cake 
and dipping it in the frosting. This must be done quickly 
while the cakes are still warm, and before the frosting sets. — * 
£R. A. McD., N. D. 




Pies and Shortcakes ] 

i 

LL rich pastry preparations are hard tc ■ 

digest, according to learned authorities, and [ 

therefore pie is not considered heaUhful. j 

But when pastry is prepared by a skillful j 

cook, the discomforts, not to say dangers, i 

which are supposed to attend its consump- i 

tion, can be reduced to a minimum, by art- ' 

ful blending and sensible omissions. Rich crusts that in j 

their composition call for equal parts of flour and butter or ' 

shortening, are rarely used in these days, because they are ! 

too rich, too indigestible and too expensive, and because we i 

have found better ways of preparing acceptable substitutes, j 

The chief requisites are that pie crust should be light and i 

flaky, and not soggy and leathery, as some "counterfeits" i 

are turned out. Much depends upon the pie filling, also, i 

for dyspepsia often lurks in that delectable article, as well 1 

as in the greasy crust. It behooves each cook, therefore, to | 

take careful note of the gastronomical idiosyncrasies of the .j 

family, and to wisely adjust her pastry selections and prep- j 

arations accordingly. The following recipes would seem | 

to offer a large enough variety in the line of pies and pastry j 

to satisfy all tastes. They were sent in as "tried and tested" j 

by Farm and Home readers, and since the consumers lived ; 

to tell about the pies and such things that they prepared and ; 

ate, the recipes would seem to be safe for others to try. ; 

Take your choice. I 

I 
Suet Pie Crust 

To 2 caps flour add % teasp baking powder and a pinch of : 

salt; then mix in Vz cup clear suet with a chopping knife ; 

until the whole is smooth and fine grained. Then add sweet \ 

milk to make a dough that can be rolled out. The suet should j 

he measured after it has been clarified and cooled. — [Mrs. A. | 

M., N. y. • j 



PLAIN AND RICH PIE CRUSTS 67 



Plain Pie Crust 

To 2^/^ cups sifted flour add a pinch salt and a heaping 
teasp baking powder. Then mix in 1 cup shortening (I use 
one-half butter and one-half lard), using a chopping knife 
to cut through the flour, and lastly add about i/^ cup cold 
water, or enough to make a stiff dough. Mix and handle 
as little as possible — only just enough to get it into shape and 
to roll it out. This amount will make two pies. — [Mrs. E. 
D., Ida. 

Flaky Pie Crust 

The rule that I follow for measuring for pie crust is always 
one-half the quantity of the previous ingredients. Thus 1 
cup flour, ^ cup lard, ^A cup water. The secret of having 
flaky pie crust is in chopping or cutting the different ingredi- 
ents together, always using a knife. In rolling out do not use 
any more flour than is absolutely necessary. Cut or chop 
the lard through the flour until the former is in pieces about 
the size of small beans.— [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Sweet Cream Pie Crust 

To 1 cup thick sweet cream add 1 tablesp sugar and mix this 
into 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a 
pinch of salt. This quantity is enough for two pies. — [Mrs. 
L. S., Minn. 

Sour Cream Pie Crust 

We think this is the most wholesome pie crust of any that 
we have tried. Dissolve I level teasp soda in 1 pt thick sour 
cream, and pour this mixture with a little salt added into 
sufficient flour to make a dough of the proper consistency. Roll 
into rather thin crusts. — [Mrs. A. C. W., W. Va. 

Egg Pie Crust 

Here is a wholesome pie crust that never fails me. To 1 
cup flour, add a pinch salt, y2 teasp baking powder, 2 
tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp butter, and 1 tablesp lard. Work 
together thoroughly with a batter spoon, fork or knife, and 
then wet with 1 beaten egg. — [Mrs. P. A., Minn. 

Rich Puff Paste 

Into 1 lb flour cut or chop V2 lb butter, and add cold water 
enough to make a dough that can be rolled. Roll out on a 
board and gradually work in another V2 lb butter by spreading 
a little at a time over the crust, folding over, and rolling out 
again, repeating this operation half a dozen times or more, or 
until all the butter is used. Keep the dough as cold as possible 



68 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK ^ 

and if, while working, it seems to get too soft and warm, set j 

it away for 10 or 15 minutes in an ice box, and finish rolling ' 

with butter after it is good and cold again. — [Mrs. P. A. B., 111. i 

I 

Baked Pie Crust q 

All pie crust made of lard should be handled as little as pes- ] 

sible, in order that it may be tender and feathery. In mak- , 

ing crusts to be used for lemon or cream pies, or any that have j 

to be baked before the filling is put in, instead of the inside I : 

cover the outside of my pie tins with the dough. Prick with a \ 

fork and turn the tin upside down to bake. In this way the \ 

crust will not shrink or puff as it is likely to do if put on the j 

inside. When done it can be slipped off and put inside and is ] 

then ready to fill. I use the same method when making tart I 

shells in patty tins. — [Mrs. L. M. D., Mich. j 

i 

Mince Meat I 'j 

To 1 qt raw chopped beef, add 1 pt chopped suet, 2 qts ' 

chopped apples, 1 qt cider (sweet or sour), 1 pt thick boiled ; 

cider, i/^ pt molasses, 1 pt liquor in which the meat was cooked, j 

1 pt brown sugar, 1 tablesp each cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, j 

and salt, V2 tablesp cloves; also seeded raisins in abundance. \ 

Boil together two hours, except apples and raisins, which ; 

should be added the last half hour. If liked add butter to these i 

pies when baking them. — [Mrs. J. C. McC, Vt. j 



Mince Meat 11 

To 2 pts lean boiled beef chopped fine, add 4 pts tart apples, 
1 pt sweet apples, 1 pt molasses, 1 pt boiled cider, % pt vinegar, 
1 lb each seeded raisins and currants, I lb brown sugar, 1 
teasp each salt, allspice and cloves, 2 teasp cinnamon, 1 grated 
nutmeg, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange, and the 
juice of both. Mix thoroughly, bring to a boil, and set away in 
fruit cans. This will keep a long time. — [Mrs. M. A. B., Tenn. 

Mince Meat III 

To 4 lbs beef, cooked and chopped, add 3 lbs chopped suet, 
8 lbs seeded raisins, 4 lbs currants, 8 lbs sugar, 16 lbs chopped 
apples, 1 tablesp each allspice, nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon; 
any kind fruit juice or jelly — sweet pickle or canned fruit juice 
— to make 1 gal, and 1 qt cider or vinegar. Mix well, boil up 
once and put away in jars. This does not need air-tight sealing. 
Tie closely with paper and keep in a dark, dry, and cool place. 
— [Mrs. C. T. C. New Mex. 



MINCE AND LEMON PIES 69 



Pork Mince 

At pig killing time save 1 head, 1 heart, and 2^^ lbs 
tenderloin. Wash and scrape the first two thoroughly and put 
on altogether and cook until perfectly tender. Remove bones 
and grind fine in a meat chopper, add 3 lbs chopped apples, 2 
lbs each seeded raisins and currants, % lb chopped citron, 2 or 
3 oranges (grated yellow rind and chopped pulp, discarding 
seeds and white peel), 2 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp cinnamon, and 
enough cider to make it as juicy as liked. Cook in a granite 
kettle until the fruit is done, being careful not to let it scorch. 
Have ready some glass fruit jars, pack the mince in these 
and seal while hot. Keep in a cool, dark, and dry place. This 
makes excellent mince pies, and just as good as any beef mince 
pie I ever tasted. — [Mrs. A. C, W. Va. 

Green Tomato Mince 

Chop fine, drain off the juice, and then measure 6 cups 
green tomatoes, add 6 cups sour chopped apples, 4 cups brown 
sugar, 2 cups molasses, V2 cup butter, 1^ cup vinegar, and 1 
tablesp salt. Cook about 3 hours, and when nearly done add 
"^ grated nutmeg, 1 scant teasp cloves and I teasp each all- 
spice and cinnamon. If liked add raisins when making these 
pies. Every one enjoys our "mince" pies, and will hardly 
believe it when I tell them it is only tomato pie. We put up 
a large quantity of this mince every fall. — [Miss M. E. B., Mich. 

Lemon Pie 

Moisten 1 heaping tablesp corn starch in a little cold water, 
add 1 cup boiling water, and cook until the corn starch is done, 
then add 1 teasp butter, 1 cup sugar; remove from fire, stir 
vigorously, and when cooled off a little add 1 well-beaten egg 
and the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake between two 
crusts. — [Mrs. N. J., Mont. 

Mock Lemon Pie 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 heaping tablesp flour, the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, I teasp lemon extract, % cup stewed rhubarb, and 
14 cup boiling water. Bake in an under crust, and when done 
cover with a meringue made of the egg whites and powdered 
sugar. Return to the oven a few minutes to brown lightly. — 
[Mrs. J. H. P., O. 

Quick Lemon Pie 

To 1 cup sugar add yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
cup bread crumbs (run through the meat chopper), grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, and a little salt. Bake with an 
under crust and frost with a meringue made of the egg^ 
whites and powdered sugar. This is enough for one pie. — 
[Mrs. F. D. D., N. Y. 



70 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Lemon Kaisin Pie 

To the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, add 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup seeded raisins, a lump butter the size 
of a walnut, and 2 tablesp flour mixed with a very little cold 
water. Boil all together and then bake between two crusts. — 
IMrs. D. J. C, N. Y. 

Plum Butter Pie 

To 1 cup butter add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup plum butter, and 
yolks of 4 eggs. Beat well and flavor with lemon extract. 
Line well greased pie pans with good rich crust and pour in 
this mixture, and bake. When done spread with a meringue 
made of the whites of 4 eggs and powdered sugar, flavored 
with vanilla. Return to the oven a few minutes until a deli- 
cate brown. The above quantity is enough for two pies. — 
[Mrs. W. T. G., Mo. 

Cranberry Pie 

Line a well greased pie tin with a good rich pie crust, fill 
with prepared cranberry sauce, and cover the top with a lattice 
work of the dough. Cut the strips about an inch wide and 
lay them across the top about an inch apart, first horizontally, 
then vertically, and then tuck in the edges. Be careful to 
have a standing edge of dough all around the pie high enough 
to prevent the juices from running over. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Pineapple Pie 

Cream i^ cup butter with 1 cup powdered sugar, add 2 
beaten egg yolks, and 1 small pineapple, grated fine. Lastly 
add the beaten whites of the eggs, and turn this mixture into 
a pastry lined pie plate. Bake with an under crust only. — 
[Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Elderberry Pie I 

To 1 cup ripe or canned elderberries, juice strained off. add 
1 tablesp flour mixed with 1 cup sour cream, and % cup sugar. 
Bake in an under crust and serve while warm. — [Mrs. O. E. 
W., O. 

Elderberry Fie II 

Line a pie plate with a good rich crust, sprinkle a little flour 
over it cover with a layer of sliced apples, and fill up with 
elderberries. Allow 1 cup sugar and 2 tablesp vinegar for each 
pie. Bake between two crusts in a slow oven. — [Mrs. A. W. 
T., Mich. 




DELICIOUS PIES IN PREPARATION. 




A BUSY MORNING IN THE KITCHEN. 



RHUBARB AND CHERRY PIES 71 



Banana Pie I 

Bake an under crust and when it is done fill up with sliced 
bananas and sprinkle over powdered sugar to taste. Set in a 
hot oven for a few minutes, then cover with whipped cream 
and serve at once. — [Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Banana Pie II 

Line deep pie plate with a rich crust and fill with ripe 
bananas sliced thin, and pour over a custard made of 2 well- 
beaten eggs, 2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp orange extract, and 1^ 
cups milk. Bake in an under crust and frost with a meringue 
made of the whites of the eggs and powdered sugar. — [H. L. 
N., Mass. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Over 3 cups finely chopped rhubarb pour cold water to 
cover. Let stand 10 minutes and then drain. In another 
bowl mix 2 tablesp flour with li/^ cups sugar, the yolks of 2 
eggs and 1 heaping tablesp butter. Beat this mixture well, 
then add the chopped rhubarb. Bake in an under crust and 
when done frost the top with a meringue made of 2 egg whites 
and C tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. This quantity is sufficient for two 
pies. — [Miss E. S., Kan. 

Mince Rhubarb Pie 

To 1 cup rhubarb, measured after chopping fine, add V2 cup 
each sugar, molasses, water and seeded and chopped raisins, 1 
large soda cracker or a slice of thoroughly dried bread rolled 
fine, 1 egg, 1 scant teasp cinnamon, a little cloves, nutmeg, salt, 
and 1 tablesp melted butter. This is enough for two pies. — 
[Mrs. C. E. A.. N. H. 

Cherry Pie 

Mix together 1 pt stoned cherries, 4 heaping tablesp sugar 
and 1 heaping tablesp flour. Fill into a pie tin lined with 
paste, sprinkle a little flour over the top, cover with an upper 
crust, and bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Cut in halves 1 cup cranberries and add V2 cup raisins, 
seeded and also cut in halves, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablesp flour, I 
teasp vanilla, and 1 cup water. Bake between two crusts. — • 
[Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fresh Currant Pie 

To 1 cup ripe currants, mashed fine, add 1 cup sugar, 2 
tablesp cold water mixed with 1 heaping tablesp flour, and 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Bake in an under crust until firm. 
Use the whites of the eggs with 3 tablesp powdered sugar, as a 
meringue. Sometimes I beat up a tablesp of currant jelly with 
the meringue. Spread the meringue on the pie after it has 
cooled off.— [Mrs. H. J. T., Vt. 

Custard Pie I 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add scant Vz cup sugar, a pinch of salt, 
and 1 teasp flour. Beat all well together and then stir in milk 
enough to fill a pie tin, lined with a good rich crust. Grate a 
little nutmeg over the pie, if liked. This is fine — the flour 
seems to add to the richness of the custard and because of its 
use less eggs are required. — [Mrs. F. H. M., N. Y. 

Custard Pie II 

To the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2 eggs add 2 cups 
rich creamy milk, V2 cup sugar, ^^ teasp salt and any preferred 
flavoring. Pour this into a pie tin lined with a good crust 
and bake. When done frost with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the 
oven a few minutes to brown lightly. — [Mrs. L. G., Cal. 

Apple Pie 

To 1 cup pastry flour sifted with small ly^ teasp cream tartar 
and half as much soda, add 1 large tablesp shortening, and mix 
with rich milk to the proper consistency for rolling. Line a 
well greased pie tin with this dough and fill up with part apples 
cut in small pieces, 3 or 4 tablesp sugar, and a little butter 
and nutmeg. Cover with an upper crust; and then pour over 
cold water, allowing the superfluous water to run off. Put in 
a hot oven, and after it is browned nicely, cover with another 
pie tin and then bake one hour with reduced heat. If these 
directions are carefully followed the result will be a most 
delicious apple pie. — [Mrs. J. L. D.. Mass. 

Apple Turnover 

Butter a pie plate and fill it with sliced apples, then cover 
with a crust made of 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking 
powder and a pinch of salt, 1 tablesp butter, and cold water to 
make the proper consistency to roll. Bake and when done 
turn over on a plate, sweeten to taste, and serve with thick, 
sweet cream. — [Mrs. F. B. S.. N. Y. 



CUSTARD AND CHOCOLATE PIES 73 

Apple Custard Pie 

Slice thin 3 large sour apples and put a layer of these in a 
pie plate lined with a rich crust, sprinkle with sugar, then put 
on another layer of apples, more sugar, and so on until the dish 
is full. Grate over it a little nutmeg, add 1 tablesp butter in 
little bits distributed over the surface, 3 tablesp rich, sweet 
cream, and 3 tablesp water. Bake in an under crust. — [Mrs. 
M. H., Mo. 

Date Pie 

Stone 1 large cup dates and cook until soft with just 
enough hot water to cover, then add 2 tablesp sugar, 1 cup 
rich milk, small bit of butter, 1 beaten egg and 1 tablesp flour. 
Bake in an under crust and when done spread the top with a 
meringue made of the white of an ess and powdered sugar, 
and return to the oven a few minutes to slightly brown. — [E. 
I., Me. 

Cocoanut Pie 

To 1 pt scalded milk add i/^ cup sugar, the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, and 1 level tablesp corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk. Bring to a boil, stirring to prevent the mixture from 
getting lumpy, then add 1 cup grated or shredded cocoanut, 
which has been soaked in milk over night. Bake in an under 
crust only. When done spread with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablesp powdered sugar. Return to the 
oven a few minutes to brown lightly. This quantity is sufficient 
for two pies. — [Miss E. K., Ind. 

Cream Pie 

Put 2 cups sweet milk in a double boiler, add V2 cup sugar, 4 
tablesp flour wet with a little cold milk, the beaten yolk of 1 
egg, and cook until thick; then remove from fire and stir in 
butter the size of a walnut. . When cool flavor with vanilla, or 
if preferred, cook some grated orange peel with the cream. 
Line a pie plate with rich pie crust, rub the inside well with 
flour, fill with the above mixture and bake. When done and 
cooled, frost with a meringue made of the egg whites beaten 
stiff and 3 tablesp powdered sugar, and return to the oven a 
few minutes to brown. — [Mrs. E. McC, N. Y. 

Chocolate Pie 

Put 1 pt milk over the fire in a double boiler. In a bowl 
beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add % cup sugar and 1 tablesp melted 
butter. Dissolve 1 tablesp corn starch in a little cold milk 
and add to the above mixture with 3 tablesp chocolate melted 



74 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK i 

in a saucer over the steaming tea-kettle. Stir this mixture \ 

into the boiling milk and cook until thick, stirring vigorously ; 

all the time. Flavor with vanilla. Pour this filling into a i 
baked pie crust, make a meringue of the egg whites and 3 

tablesp powdered sugar and spread over the pie while the \ 
filling is still warm. Return to the oven a few minutes and 
brown lightly. — [Mrs. A. I., la. 

Buttermilk Pie | 

To 2 cups sugar add 2 tablesp flour, yolks of 5 eggs, white of i 

t egg, 1 tablesp butter, and after this has been thoroughly 1 

mixed, add 3 cups buttermilk, and 1 tablesp lemon extract, i 

Bake in an under crust and when done spread with a meringue j 

made of the 4 remaining egg whites and 6 tablesp powdered j 

sugar. Flavor with lemon extract. Return to the oven a few | 

minutes to brown lightly. This makes a good mock lemon i 

pie. — [Mrs. G. W. B., Mont. 1 

Dutch Pie ; 

Pare and cut in quarters sour apples that cook easily, and ; 

dispose these quarters in circles on a pie tin lined with a not : 

too rich crust. Allow a large enough edge for the pie crust \ 

and crimp it with your fingers or a fork. Crowd in all the ; 

apples you can without allowing them to lay one on top of the j 

other, then pour cold v/ater over them to about half fill the j 

tin. Next sprinkle over the apples sugar enough to sweeten to j 

taste, and also a little cinnamon or nutmeg, if liked. Bake { 

slowly. This pie is improved by dotting pieces of butter over I 

the apples. — [Mrs. E. C. S., Mo. i 

Boiled Cider Pie ; 

To 2 cups cold water add 1 % cups sugar, and V2 cup thick, ' 

boiled cider. Put this mixture over the fire and let it come j 

to a boil, then add 2 .or 3 well-beaten eggs and 3 tablesp flour i 

wet with a little cold water. Cook and stir until free | 

from lumps. Pour into baked under crusts, and frost with j 

meringue made from the egg whites and powdered sugar. This ! 

is sufficient for two pies. — [Mrs. F. D. D., N. Y. ■ | 

Squash Pie j 

Pie made of good ripe squash can be just as delicious as i 

pumpkin pie, and even better, to my mind. Peel the squash, ' 

scrape out pulp and seeds, cut in two-inch pieces, and stew ! 

until tender in water to nearly cover, then pour in a colander | 

and let all the water drain off. Mash thoroughly and to 3 qts j 
squash, add 1 qt rich sweet milk, 6 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp 
corn starch wet with a little cold milk, 3 cups sugar (it should 



PUMPKIN AND SWEET POTATO PIES 75 

taste quite sweet before baking), i^ a grated nutmeg, 2 teasp 
ginger, and 1 teasp cinnamon. Fill this mixture into deep plates 
lined with a good, rich crust. Shake some cinnamon over the 
filling and bake in a good, steady oven until the center is firm 
and the crust nicely browned. — [R. A. McD., S. D. 

Green Pumpkin Pie 

Choose a green pumpkin just showing first yellow streaks; 
cook until tender, rub through a colander, and to each pint 
pumpkin pulp add % cup sugar, 1 tablesp butter, 1 tablesp 
flour, 3 tablesp vinegar, 1 teasp cinnamon and a little allspice, 
and 1 beaten egg. Bake between two crusts. This tastes very 
much like green apple pie. — [Mrs. J. T. C, Minn. 

Pumpkin Pie 

I can highly recommend this recipe. Pare, remove pulp, cut 
in small pieces, and cook pumpkin 5 or 6 hours, then strain 
carefully through a colander and for 4 cups strained pumpkin 
allow 4 cups rich milk, 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 heaping cup brown 
sugar, 1 teasp salt, i/^ a grated nutmeg, 2 teasp ginger and y2 
teasp mace. The milk should be heated and added gradually 
to the seasoned pumpkin, stirring constantly, and lastly add 
the eggs well-beaten. Turn into deep pie plates lined with 
rich pastry. Be sure to have the pumpkin mixture hot. Bake 
to a rich brown; it will take about one hour. — [R. M., Mich. 

Green Tomato Pie 

Line a pie dish with rich pastry. Slice into it enough green 
tomatoes, very thin, to fill it, sprinkle with a little cinnamon 
and cloves, 1 tablesp molasses, 1 tablesp sugar (or more), and 
a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. Bake between two 
crusts. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Sweet Potato Pie 

Wash and boil 3 good sized sweet potatoes until tender, t"hen 
peel and rub through a colander, add the beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, with 1 pt sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, i/^ cup melted butter, 
and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake in an under crust, and 
when done cover with a meringue made of the whites of 3 eggs 
and powdered sugar. Return to the oven for a few minutes to 
brown lightly. . I also make pumpkin pie by this recipe, by sub- 
stituting the same quantity of pumpkin for sweet potatoes. — 
[Mrs. Z. T. T., N. C. 

Carrot Pie 

Wash and peel 2 or 3 good sized carrots, stew until tender, 
pour water off, mash fine with potato masher, and to 1 cup 



76 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

mashed carrots add 1 tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, 1 level teasp 
mixed spices, V2 pt milk and salt to taste. Bake with an 
under crust only. — [Mrs. B. L. G., Ore. 

Butternut Pie 

To y2 cup milk add ^ cup cream, scant % cup sugar, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, and 1 cup butternut meats, chopped fine. Bake 
between two crusts. When eggs are scarce use 1 egg and 1 
teasp flour. — [Mrs. J. C. H., Vt. 

Cottage Cheese Pie 



To 1 cup cottage cheese add 1 cup sweet cream, 1 beaten egg, I 
3 tablesp sugar, mixed with 1 tablesp flour, a pinch of salt, and 
cinnamon to taste. Bake in an under crust. The cottage ' 
cheese is made by placing some clabber milk over the fire and '■ 
letting it warm through and then pouring it in a cheese cloth ; 
bag, and hanging it up. When the whey has dropped out, mix ■ 
the cheese smooth with a little sweet cream and salt it to i 
taste. — [Mrs. E. C, Mo. I 

I 
Rice Pie | 

Mix together 1 cup sweet milk, 2 beaten e^^ yolks, ^ cup i 

sugar, ^2 cup boiled rice, and a piece of butter as large as a j 

walnut. Beat thoroughly, put in a double boiler and cook j 

until the egg is done. Remove from fire, flavor to taste, and ; 

pour the mixture into a baked pie shell, and cover with a \ 

meringue made with the whites of the eggs and a little pow- •■ 

dered sugar. Put in the oven a few minutes to brown lightly. ; 

When cold drop small lumps of jelly around on the top. — [M. ; 

F. P., N. Y. : 

Fried Pies 

These are very nice and when fried just right, so as not to j 

soak fat, are every bit as good as baked pies. Roll some 1 

biscuit dough quite thin, cut in small pieces of any desired size | 

or shape, put on each piece a small spoonful of hot mince meat, ; 

fold the crust over and pinch the edges together securely all I 

around so it will not open anywhere while frying, and fry \ 

these small individual mince pies in hot lard until a delicate ^ 

brown, same as doughnuts. If you have never tasted any like j 

these you have a real treat in store. — [I. A. S., Me. j 

Fig Pie I 

To 1 cup molasses add 1 cup sugar, the grated rind of 1 j 

lemon, ^2 lb figs, cut fine, 2 cups water, 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp ■ 

flour, and a little salt. This is enough for two pies. — [Mrs. : 
W. L. J.. Vt. 



PRUNE AND PEACH PIES 77 



Prune Pie 

To 1 cup stewed, stoned and chopped prunes, add 3 tablesp 
of the liquid they were stewed in, i/^ cup sugar, a little lemon 
juice and 1 teasp orange extract. Bake between two crusts. — 
[L. v., 111. 

Raspberry Pie 

Cook together 1 cup raspberries, 1 cup currants, 1 scant cup 
sugar, 1 tablesp flour, and yolks of 2 eggs. Pour this filling into 
a baked under crust, cover with the beaten whites of the eggs 
and 2 tablesp powdered sugar, and place in the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. — [Miss I. A., N. Y. 

Canned Peach Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with rich crust and bake. Then fill 
with canned peaches cut in quarters, sprinkle over it 1 cup 
sugar and a little of the peach juice. Beat 1 or 2 eggs, yolks 
and whites separately, adding a little powdered sugar to the 
whites and then stir the whites and yolks together and pour this 
over the fruit in the pie shell. Set in the oven a few minutes to 
brown lightly. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Evaporated Peach Pie 

Soak over night I lb evaporated or dried peaches, wash thor- 
oughly, drain, and add just enough fresh water to cook them 
without making too much juice. When done strain through 
a sieve, add sugar and salt to taste and 4 crackers, or 3 or 4 
slices of dried bread, rolled fine. Bake between two crusts. — 
[Mrs. E. M., N. Y. 

Apricot Custard Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with custard. Put in a layer of juicy 
stewed apricots, and bake quickly. Meanwhile put 1% cups 
rich milk on to heat in a double boiler. Moisten I tablesp 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir into the hot milk. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a pinch of salt and V2 cup sugar, 
and add to the hot mixture and cook another minute or two. 
Then remove from the fire and flavor with i^ teasp vanilla and 
pour the custard over the fruit in the pie. Make a meringue 
of the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff with 1 tablesp powdered 
sugar, spread over the pie and return to the oven a few 
minutes to brown lightly. Serve cold. — [L. H. C, Fla. 



When making custard pie use the milk hot, and the custard 
will turn out much more solid. — [Mrs. L. H., Pa. 



78 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fruit Shortcakes j 

Shortcake I 

To 1 heaping tablesp brown sugar add 1 heaping tablesp : 
thick, sour cream, 1 small cup sweet milk in which dissolve a |i 
pinch of soda, salt, and 2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour ; 
enough to make a batter as for layer cake. Bake in three 
layers. When done, spread each layer with sweetened fruit, and ■ 

pile some of the fruit on top. — [Miss M. A., Mich. ', 

•] 

Shortcake II | 

Beat 1 egg and ^^ cup sugar well together, add 1 cup thick, ; 

sour cream, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 3 tablesp hot water, j 

salt, and flour enough to make a stiff dough that will drop j 

from the spoon. Bake about i/^ hour in a quick oven. When ' 
done, remove from tin, dip a sharp knife in hot water, and cut 

^pen the cake. Any kind of fruit may be used as filling. To be ; 

eaten with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. J. O. W., N. Y. j 

Buckwheat Shortcake \ 

To 3 cups buttermilk add 1 teasp soda and buckwheat flour j 

to make a dough a little thicker than for griddle cakes. Spread i 
in greased pans about 1 inch thick. This is a very fine and 

wholesome shortcake, without shortening. Do not use any ■ 

eggs or shortening. — [Mrs. J. S., Pa. ; 

Rhubarb Shortcake i 

Make a shortcake of rich biscuit dough and when done, split J 

open, butter each piece, and spread with sweetened rhubarb, ! 

which has been stewed in a double boiler without a bit of water I 

being added. Garnish with whipped cream and serve warm. If ; 

no double boiler is at hand, one may be improvised by setting a j 

granite covered basin inside of another larger dish, which has ! 

been partially filled with boiling water. — [Mrs. N. M. P., N. H. ' 

Peach Shortcake ■ 

To the beaten yolks of 2 eggs add i/^ cup milk, 1 tablesp ' 

melted butter and 1 cup pastry flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- ^ 

ing powder. Beat well and then fold in the beaten whites of ' 

the eggs. Pour into a shallow greased pan, having the batter i 

about 1 inch thick, and cover the top with peeled and sliced j 

peaches, over which sprinkle V2 cup sugar. Bake until the i 

fruit is tender, and serve with cream. — [Mrs. A. C. McP. ! 



STRAWBERRY AND HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKES 79 



Strawberry Shortcake I 

To 1 qt wheat flour sifted with 3 teasp baking powder, add 
2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, 2 tablesp lard, 2 tablesp butter, 
melted, 1 pt sweet milk, and 2 eggs well beaten. Roll and 
bake in square tins. When done, split the cake open and fill 
with strawberries prepared as follows: Crush berries lightly 
and mix with sugar to taste and thick sweet cream. This 
same recipe is nice for any kind of fruit. — [Miss LI. E. K., 
N. Y. 

Strawberry Shortcake II 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll about 1 inch thick, bake, 
and when done split open, butter each piece generously, and 
between them put strawberries lightly crushed and well sweet- 
ened. Serve warm with cream. — [M. D. M., Kan. 

Blueberry Shortcake 

Bake a shortcake from a rich biscuit dough and when done 
split open and fill with the following: To 1 qt blueberries 
add y^. cup water, 1 cup sugar and 1 tablesp cornstarch. Boil 
about 10 minutes. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Huckleberry Shortcake 

Bake any preferred shortcake and while it is baking stew 2 
qts fresh huckleberries and sweeten to taste. When the cake 
is done, split open and spread each piece with butter, place on. 
a platter and between each layer put plenty of the stewed 
berries, also some on top. Serve with sauce made as follows: 
Mix thoroughly 1 cup sugar with 2 tablesp flour, pour over 
this some boiling water and cook until of the right con- 
sistency, stirring well. Then add 1 tablesp butter, a pinch of 
salt and flavor with lemon or vanilla extract. — [Mrs. A. C, 
Mass, 

Biscuits with Berries 

Take cold biscuits (one for each person to be served), 
split open, spread each half liberally with butter and place 
in the oven to get hot. To 1 qt strawberries add 1 cup sugar 
and mash to a pulp. Put half hot biscuit on a plate, spread 
with mashed and sweetened berries, then put the other half 
of the biscuit on top and cover with more berries. To be 
served warm or cold with sweet cream. Raspberries or black- 
berries can be used the same way, either fresh or canned. — • 
[Mrs. M. M. B., Mo. 



80 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Strawberry Sauce for Shortcake 

Cream together 1 cup butter and 1 lb powdered sugar. 
Pick, wash and drain carefully 1 qt ripe strawberries and add 
these to the butter and sugar cream, crushing about three 
quarters of the berries. Have three layers of shortcake ready, 
spread the sauce between each layer and decorate the top 
with some whole berries. This should be prepared about 
half hour before serving. — [Mrs. C. von W., N. J. 

Strawberry Cobbler 

Sift 1 qt flour with 2 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt. Cut % cup butter (or butter and lard mixed) into the 
flour and add sweet milk enough to make a dough that can 
be handled. Roll out a third of the dough, large enough to 
cover the baking pan you intend to use, and bake at once 
in a separate tin. This is to be used as a middle crust. 
'Meanwhile roll out the rest of the dough to line a deep bak- 
ing pan, half fill with strawberries, sprinkle liberally with 
sugar, put on the baked middle crust and then finish filling 
the pan with berries, sprinkle with sugar, and cover the top 
with a crust, first cutting a number of air holes in it. Bake, 
and serve warm with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. B. B., la. 

Peach or Berry Cobbler 

Half fill an enameled pan, well buttered, with either berries 
or peaches cut fine, sprinkle with a liberal amount of sugar 
and dot generously with butter, lastly sprinkling with some 
flour. Cover the top with a layer of shortcake dough in 
which cut a few air holes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 
— [Mrs. W. W. P., Okla. 

Cranberry Monnd 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out Vz inch thick, cut into 
four different sized circles, ranging from two to six inches. 
Cover each circle with a layer of finely chopped cranberries and 
a thick sprinkling of sugar, then place the larger circle on a 
well buttered plate, cover with the next smallest circle, and so 
on, the smallest circle coming on top. Set in a steamer and 
steam % hour. Serve with cream and sugar, or if preferred, 
a hot, sweet sauce. — [N. M. P.. N. H. 

Cherry Rolls 

Roll out a rich biscuit dough about 1 inch thick, cover 
with ripe, pitted cherries (first draining off the juice), sprinkle 
plentifully with sugar, fold one side of the cake over the 



FRUIT ROLLS AND CHEESE PATTIES 81 

other, to form a long narrow roll, pinch the edges, and then 
with a sharp knife cut off sections the size you wish to serve 
to each person. Lay these pieces in a bread pan, well but- 
tered, with the cut side up, and after all the pieces have been, 
disposed of, drop lumps of butter over all and sprinkle with 
1 cup sugar and a very little flour. Then add the cherry 
juice and enough water to make a suflacient quantity of sauce. 
Bake until the crust is done. This is delicious. — [Mrs. W. 
T. G., Mo. 

Strawberry Rolls 

Roll out a rich biscuit dough about % inch thick, then 
spread with lightly crushed berries and sprinkle liberally 
with sugar. Roll up tight and pinch the ends closely together, 
so that no juice can escape. Place in a steamer and steam 
steadily for one hour. Cut in slices and serve with any pre- 
ferred sweet sauce. — [Mrs. M. P., N. H. 

Rhubarb Rolls 

Mix up a rich, short biscuit dough and roll out about Vz 
inch thick, cover with a layer of finely cut raw rhubarb, 
sprinkle thickly with sugar, roll up, put it in a buttered tin 
and steam 40 minutes. Then put in a hot oven just long 
enough to dry off. Serve warm with a hard sauce. — [Mrs. N. 
P., N. H. 

Cheese Straws 

To 4 tablesp grated cheese add 2 tablesp butter, 1 cup flour, a 
pinch salt, and cayenne pepper, and mix with a little cold water 
to the proper consistency. Roll about ^ inch th^.ck, cut in 
strips V2. inch wide and 3 inches long, and bake in a not too 
hot oven. — [Miss N. P., S. C. 

Cheese Patties 

Roll out in a sheet about ^ inch thick some ordinary pie 
Sough and cut in triangular pieces. In the center of each 
place a spoonful grated cheese, sprinkled with a little pepper, 
lap one end of the dough over on the other, press the edges 
together with a fork and bake. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Cocoanut Patties 

Boil together about 8 or 10 minutes 1 cup sugar and % pt 
boiling water, then add Vz cup grated cocoanut, and boil about 
8 minutes more, after which remove from the fire and add 2 
well-beaten eggs. Line little patty pans with ordinary pie 
crust, put a tablesp of the above mixture in each, and 
bake in a hot oven. — [Mrs. M. W., Me. 



82 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Macaroon Patties 

Pound and sift 6 almond macaroons, add 1 tablesp grated 
chocolate and 1 pt hot milk. Let this stand about 10 minutes, 
then add yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 tablesp sugar, and 1 
teasp vanilla. Line little patty pans with pie paste, fill with 
the above mixture and bake in a quick oven for about 20 
minutes. — [E. K., Mass. 

Raspberry Tarts 

Roll out some pie or puff paste about i^ inch thick, cut out 
in small circles, about the size of an overturned coffee cup, and 
in one half of these circles make three or four small perfora- 
tions with a thimble. Put the perforated circles on the plain 
circles and bake. When partly cooled, fill the perforations 
with raspberry jam. — [E. B., Mass. 

Rhubarb Tarts 

Bake pie paste in gem pans until it will loosen easily but 
is not thoroughly done, fill tart shells with thickly stewed and 
sweetened rhubarb and cover each with a spoonful of a mix- 
ture made by beating together 1 egg yolk, 4 cup sweet milk 
and 2 tablesp sugar. Then place strips of pie paste cross- 
ways on each tart and bake. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Banberry Tarts 

Cut into small squares a rich pie crust dough and between 
each two of these squares place a little of the following mix- 
ture. Mix thoroughly together 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, 1 cup currants, a little candied citron, the grated rind 
of 1 orange and 2 lemons, 1 cup sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs, 
beaten light. Bake these tarts until a delicate brown. — [Mrs. 
M. W., O. 



Red or black raspberries and gooseberries together make a ! 

fine pie. — [E. L. McG., Mich. '• 

A little grated lemon peel added to rhubarb pie is an i 

improvement. — [Mrs. C. E. B., Neb. \ 

To secure a nice looking brown pie I sponge the upper crust , 

with a little cream just before setting the pie in the oven. — [E. j 

E., Vt. I 

When making custard pie I have found that if I add a teasp ] 

flour to the custard it will not whey so quickly. — [Mrs. L. M., | 

D., Mich. ' 



PIE AND PASTRY HINTS 



The next time you make an apple pie try sprinkling on the 
apples a very little of several different kinds of spices. The 
result is delightful. — [E. E., Vt. 

For moistening mince meat there is nothing quite so good 
as the seasoned vinegar from sweet pickles, especially from 
apples, pears and peaches. — [Mrs. G. S., Neb. 

More wholesome than if made with lard or butter is the fol- 
lowing pie crust: Mix 1 cup thick, sweet cream into 2 cups 
flour sifted with I teasp salt. — [Mrs. C. E. B., Neb. 

When a pie shows a tendency to boil over, wet a clean strip 
of white muslin and stretch this tightly around the pie, press- 
ing down firmly onto the crust. — [Mrs. M. W. H,, Mich. 

For custard, berry, or any juicy pies, I always sponge the 
under crust with the white of an egg before putting in the 
filling. This will prevent the crust from getting soggy. — [E. 
E., Vt. 

Try rhubarb instead of apples for mince pies. It is very 
much to be preferred. Do not peel the stalks — just wash and 
chop fine — and you will be pleased with results. — [Mrs. N. P. 
A., Me. 

Peel and cut up fine 4 oranges and 4 bananas, mix them 
together and add 1 cup sugar and mash well. Put this mixture 
between layers of shortcake, pile some on top, and serve 
with cream. — [R. S. Y., Kan. 

To prevent apple or berry pies from discharging their 
delicious juices upon the floor of the oven, insert in a slit in 
the upper crust (when ready to bake) a funnel made from a 
small square of white paper. — [F. & H. 

This is a good way to use up dry scraps of cheese, provided 
they have not become moldy: Put a layer of bits of cheese 
in a well buttered tin and cover with a soft shortcake batter. 
Bake in a quick oven. — [A. H. B., Mich. 

One of the secrets of good pie crust, cookies, etc., is to mix 
largely or entirely with a baking spoon or knife, instead of the 
heated hand. For pie crust see to it that the flour, shorten- 
ing, and water are cold. — [Mrs. S. D. F., O. 

In preparing pumpkin for pies it saves time to simply cut the 
pumpkin in quarters and bake it in the oven. When done 
scoop the pumpkin out of the shell with a spoon and mix with 
the other ingredients in the usual way. — [Mrs. E. L. P., O. 



84 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



It is a hobby of mine that pie should be baked well, and long 
— just how long depends entirely upon the filling — for an apple 
pie, one hour in a moderate oven is not a minute too long, 
while for a berry pie, 20 to 30 minutes is about right. — [E. E., 
Vt. 

To keep juicy pie fillings from running out while baking, cut 
the upper pie crust about one-quarter inch larger than the 
tin, and tuck this edge under the edge of the lower crust. Be 
sure to prick or cut slits in the top crust for air holes. — [Mrs. 
M. M., Wis. 

To prevent the under crust from becoming soggy as it will 
when baked with juicy fillings, mix one-half the sugar you 
intend to use in the filling with an equal amount of flour, and 
sprinkle this mixture on the under crust before you put in the 
fruit. — [Mrs. M. M., Wis. 

I believe there is at least as much in proper baking as in 
proper making. My experience is that a very hot oven makes 
a tough crust, as is also the case if upon being taken from the 
oven, the pie is immediately set in a cold place. It is better to 
let it cool slowly. — [E. E., Vt. 

When you want a baked pie shell, invert the pie pan, grease 
the bottom (which of course must be very clean), and put the 
crust over that and bake. In this way you will have no trouble 
in having perfect shells, without blisters. Prick the dough 
lightly with a fork before putting in the oven. — [J. M. B., 111. 

The leaves from fruit trees steeped in water making a strong 
tea, and used instead of water in cooking other kinds of fruit 
will give it the taste of the fruit of the leaves. For example, 
peach leaves tea will give rhubarb the taste of peaches, and is 
a nice change in making pies. In the red or wineplant, straw- 
berry leaves may be used. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 

When fresh fruit is not obtainable I use well soaked and 
cooked dried apples in my mince meat. A whole orange chopped 
fine also gives a fine flavor to the mince meat. When fresh beef 
is not obtainable (if one can be sure of getting a good quality), 
canned roast beef may be substituted for fresh beef in mince 
meat, or one can use the lean meat from a pig's head, boiled. — 
[L. E. M., Ala. 



Doughnuts, Griddle Qakes and Pritters 



^=» HERE are all kinds of doughnuts — good, 
bad, and indifferent. When they are not as 
good as they should be, it rests with the 
cook, who has probably failed to inform 
herself on all the fine points of doughnut 
manufacture. The following hints may 
be found useful in following the various reci- 
pes presented herewith. The dough should be as soft as 
possible, and not handled any more than is absolutely neces- 
sary. If too much baking powder is used the doughnuts 
will soak up fat, and if the dough is too stiff the fried cakes 
will be tough. Since they are fried in grease it is not 
advisable to use much shortening in the doughnuts. Equal 
parts of clarified lard and suet are the best to fry them 
in. The kettle should not be too small and there should 
be plenty of the fat, which should be hot. To keep the fat 
clear and to keep it from over-heating, some cooks drop in 
a piece of raw potato. It is well to test with a sample 
doughnut, to see if the dough is of the right consistency 
and the fat at the proper degree of heat. When the 
doughnut is dropped into the fat it should come to the top 
almost immediately, and when it is brown on one side it 
should be turned to brown on the other side. When the 
doughnuts are lifted from the fat they should be laid out 
on brown paper, to absorb the superfluous fat. It is best 
not to fry more than five or six doughnuts at a time, as drop- 
ping in too many fresh doughnuts would cool the fat 
too rapidly. A little practice and careful .following of 
directions should result in a product that is both whole- 
some and palatable. 

Raised Doughnuts I 

Scald 2 cups sweet milk, and when partly cool add 2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup lard, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup yeast, a little 
grated nutmeg and flour to mix in a loaf. Let rise over night, 

85 



8 6 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and in the morning roll out 1 inch thick. Cut with cookie or 
biscuit cutter. Let stand until light, and then fry in hot fat. 
— [Mrs. F. F. B., O. 

Raised Doughnuts 11 

Boil and mash 2 medium sized potatoes, stir them into 1 pt 
boiling milk, add a little salt, and % cup sugar. Set aside 
until lukewarm, then add 2 well-beaten eggs, and i/^ yeast cake 
dissolved in a little vvarm water. Let this rise until light, then 
add V2 cup butter, and flour to mould. Let rise once more in a 
warm place (takes about 4 hours), and then roll and cut about 
% inch thick. Let them rise again, and fry in hot lard. When 
cooled, roll in powdered sugar. — [M. B., 111. 

Raised Doughnuts III 

To 1 pt light bread sponge add 1 cup sugar, i/^ cup melted 
lard, 1 well-beaten egg, 1 teasp cinnamon, allspice and cloves 
mixed, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in 3 tablesp warm water. 
Mix stiff with flour, and let rise one hour, then roll and cut 
into cakes, and let these rise about 2 minutes. Fry in hot 
lard. It takes longer to fry raised doughnuts than those made 
with baking powder. — [Mrs. S. N., AVash. 

Farmer's Doughnuts I 

Pour 1 pt boiling hot sweet milk over 1 lb sifted flour, stir- 
ring vigorously, then break in 7 eggs, one at a time, cut off lit- 
tle pieces with a tablespoon and drop into hot lard. If care- 
fully cut they will be nearly round. Turn until they are evenly 
brown. When cool roll in powdered sugar, or eat v/ith molas- 
ses. — [E. R. H., Pa. 

Farmer's Doughnuts 11 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 v/ell-beaten egg, and 1 cup buttermilk 
or sour milk, to which add 2 teasp thick sour cream, 1 level 
teasp soda, arid salt and nutmeg to taste. Mix with flour to 
a soft dough. — [Mrs. W. J. B., Me. 

Molasses Doughnuts (No Eggs) 

To % cup molasses add % cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk or but- 
termilk, in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 1 tablesp melted lard, 
a little salt and ^/i teasp ginger, with flour enough to make a 
dough of the proper consistenc3^ — [Mrs. L. M. A., Me. 



DOUGHNUTS AND PRIED CAKES 87 

Cocoa Doughnuts 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 tablesp butter, 1 well-beaten egg, a lit- 
tle salt, 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve i/^ teasp soda, 1, 2 or 
3 tablesp powdered cocoa, and flour enough to make a soft 
dough. The amount of cocoa should be regulated to taste. — 
[Mrs. N. F., Mass. 

Potato Fried Cakes I 

To 6 boiled potatoes, each about the size of an egg, mashed 
while hot, add 2 cups sugar, 1 tablesp butter, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, 1 cup milk, and about 
6 cups fiour sifted with 6 teasp baking powder. — [Mrs. M. W. 
H., Mich. 

Potato Fried Cakes II 

To 1 cup milk add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup mashed potatoes, i/i 
cup thick sweet cream, yolks of 3 eggs, a pinch of salt, and 3 
teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a dough 
of the proper consistency. Add the beaten whites of the eggs 
just before adding the flour. Mix with the hands until smooth 
and velvety, roll out about Vz inch thick and 6 inches wide, 
then with a sharp knife begin at the end and cut strips % inch 
wide. Bring the ends of each strip to,'n:ether and pinch. In this 
way the last cake will be as good as the first, for no more flour 
will have to be kneaded in. Twist the doughnuts and fry them 
in deep hot fat until a delicate brown, and drain on brown 
paper. When made v\^ith potatoes, doughnuts will keep moist 
for a week or more. — [Mrs. L. M. D., Mich. 

Fried Cakes (No Eggs) 

Dissolve 1 level teasp soda in 1 cup sour milk, add 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tablesp shortening, a little salt and cinnamon or nut- 
meg and flour enough to make a soft dough that will roll out 
easily. — [Miss A. H. B., Mich. 

Old-Fashioned Twisters 

To 1 cup buttermilk add 1 cup sugar, 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs, 1 level teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water, 4 
tablesp melted lard, nutmeg to taste, and flour to make a dough 
which can be rolled thin. Cut in inch wide strips, twist and 
pinch the ends together, and fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. J. N. J., 
Kan. 

Puff Balls 

Beat 3 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar, 1 pt milk, some salt and 
nutmeg, and sufficient flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



to make a dough in which a spoon can stand up. Drop by 
small spoonsful into hot fat. Dip the spoon into the hot fat 
^every time. — [H. M. W., Mass. 

Potato Puffs 

To % cup cold mashed potatoes add V2 cup rich milk, 1 well- 
heaten egg, and 1 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Roll about y2 inch thick, cut in strips 
or any desired shape, and fry in hot fat. These are good served 
warm with maple syrup, jelly or sugar. — [Mrs. R. J. S., Neb. 

Cornmeal Trifles 

To 1 cup cornmeal add 1 cup flour, V2 teasp salt, 2 teasp 
baking powder, and water enough to make a very stiff batter. 
Drop by spoonsful into deep, hot fat, and serve warm with 
syrup. — [Mrs. D. L. P., Cuba. 

Economical Pancakes 

Try this recipe when you run short of bread for breakfast, 
and the price of eggs is soaring up. To 1 qt white flour add 1 
teasp salt, and 2% cups buttermilk in which dissolve 1 teasp 
soda. Pour in the buttermilk a little at a time, and beat 
smooth and free from lumps. Fry with plenty of nice fresh 
lard and tilt the frying pan or griddle so the lard can run 
around the cakes while they are frying, and form a nice crisp 
edge on them. Drop about 2 tablesp of the batter in the pan 
for each cake. These are fine served with butter and syrup or 
honey. — [Mrs. L. S., Ind. 

Bread Pancakes 

Soak 2 cups stale bread over night in 1 cup hot milk. Next 
morning put this through a sieve to mash all lumps, then add 1 
heaping teasp sugar, 1 level teasp salt, 2 tablesp melted butter, 
2 well-beaten eggs and 1 cup flour. Lastly add 1 cup sour 
milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda. Bake on a hot griddle. 
These are extra fine. — [E. L. McG., Mich. 

Bread Pancakes (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups stale bread soaked until soft add 1 cup sour milk, 
V2 cup sugar, 1 teasp soda and salt to taste. Then stir in flour 
enough to make a soft batter. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Cornmeal Pancakes 

Sift together 1 pt yellow cornmeal, 1 pt flour, 1 teasp salt, 1 
teasp soda and 2 tablesp sugar, then add enough sour cream or 
good rich buttermilk to make a thin batter. Bake at once on 
hot griddles. — [Mrs. G. M. N., N. Y. 



BREAD AND POTATO PANCAKES 89 



Rye Pancakes 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 2 tablesp sugar, 2 tablesp molasses, 
^^teatjp soda dissolved in Vz cup sour milk, and equal parts 
flour and rye meal to make a stiff batter. Drop by small spoons- 
ful into deep, hot fat. — [J. M. S., N. H. 

Buttermilk Pancakes 

To 1 qt buttermilk add 1 teasp soda, a little salt, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, and either graham, buckwheat or wheat flour 
enough to make a batter of the proper consistency for pancakes. 
— [Mrs. J. W. H., Mich. 

Whole Wheat Pancakes 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup whole wheat flour, a little 
salt, and 1 teasp soda dissolved in 2 cups buttermilk. Bake 
on hot griddle. — [Mrs. V. A. H., N. D. 

Raw Potato Pancakes I 

Pare and grate 6 large potatoes, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 
cups milk, some pepper and salt, 1 tablesp sugar, and 1 cup 
flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Drop this soft batter 
by the spoonsful on a hot, well greased griddle, as for pancakes. 
Serve hot, with butter. If desired sweet potatoes may be used 
in place of the Irish potatoes. — [Mrs. W. K., la. 

Raw Potato Pancakes II 

Pare and grate 6 large potatoes, drain off all the water, add 
to the potatoes 1 scant cup sour milk with ^ teasp soda and 
1 teasp salt. Then stir in 2 well-beaten eggs and flour enough 
to make a thin batter. The amount of flour varies according 
to the size of potatoes — usually 1 cup is suflicient. Fry like 
any other pancakes in hot fat — equal parts of butter and suet 
or lard, being best. Have the pancakes small, and serve them 
piping hot. — [Mrs. F. H., Mo. 

Boiled Potato Pancakes 

Boil 6 medium sized potatoes in salted water, and when done 
mash them, and set aside to cool, after which add 3 well-beaten 
eggs, 1 qt milk and flour enough to make a thin pancake bat- 
ter, sifted with 2 teasp baking powder. Fry a golden brown on 
both sides and serve hot. — [Mrs. R. N. P., N. Y. 

Potato and Onion Pancakes 

Grate 6 or 8 medium sized potatoes, and 1 medium sized 
onion, then add yolks of 4 eggs, a little salt and 1 heaping 



'9 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



tablesp flour. Mix well, and then add the beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Have the griddle very hot and bake as batter cakes. 
Serve hot with butter. — [W. H. C, Tex. 

Banana Pancakes 

Peel 5 bananas, cut up fine, add 3 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp 
sugar, 3 tablesp thick sweet cream, ^A cup milk and Vz teasp 
baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a batter of the 
proper consistency. Fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. G. McM., Cal. 

Tomato Pancakes 

To 2 cups boiled and mashed ripe tomatoes add 1 cup hot 
water, 1 teasp soda and salt and pepper to taste. Then stir in 
flour enough to make a soft batter, and fry on hot and well 
greased griddles. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn 

Raised Buckwheat Griddlecakes I 

To make the yeast, boil until soft 3 or 4 medium sized pota- 
toes, mash, add 1 pt flour, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, and a 
pinch of ginger. Pour some boiling water over these ingredi- 
ents, stir well, and when cool add 1 cake compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a little warm water, or i^ cup hop yeast. Set away 
in a warm place to rise. 

For the cakes use 1 qt warm water, y^. cup sweet milk, salt 
to taste, and buckwheat flour to make a batter of the proper 
consistency. Then add % cup of the yeast prepared as above, 
beat well, and set in a warm place until light. This recipe will 
make delicious cakes, and the yeast will keep sweet 3 or 4 days 
in a cool place. Yeast made as above is also satisfactory for 
J)read. — [Miss A. E. H., Pa. 

Raised Buckwheat Griddlecakes II 

Into 1 pt lukewarm water stir % lb buckwheat flour, a pinch 
salt and 2 ozs yeast or 1 cup liquid yeast. Set this over night 
and in the morning add 1 teasp soda, V^ cup flour and 1 tablesp 
molasses. One or 2 eggs added to this batter will make it hold 
together nicely, but they can safely be omitted. Bake on hot 
griddle. — [M. S., Neb. 



Raw potato pancakes are best when served immediately after 
removing from frying pan. Do not attempt to fry a large batch 
of these pancakes at once, but send to the table just as soon 
as a panful is fried. When eaten fresh and hot, with cran- 
berry sauce as a side dish, they are most delicious, but when 
allowed to cool, they become heavy and soggy. — [A. G., Mass. 



RICE AND CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 91 

Griddle Cakes (No Eggs) 

To 1 qt milk add 1 tablesp lard, and 1 tablesp baking powder 
and some salt mixed with flour to make a rather thin batter. 
Bake on very hot griddle.---- [Mrs. G. S., Neb. 

Rice Griddlecakes 

Boil V2 cup rice until soft, and when cool thin with milk to 
the consistency of batter for buckwheat cakes. Then stir in 1 
well-beaten egg, about a handful flour and salt to taste. These 
will require to bake longer than other griddle cakes, before 
turning. If liked, add a little sugar to the batter. — [Mrs. E, 
W., N. Y. 

Hominy Griddlecakes 

To 1 pt warm boiled hominy add 1 pt milk or water and 1 
pt flour. Lastly beat 2 or 3 eggs and stir into the batter with a 
little salt. Pry like any other griddlecakes. These are deli- 
cious. — [N. P., N. H. 

Cornmeal Griddlecakes 

Mix 1 pt cornmeal with 1 pt wheat flour, add 1 teasp salt, 2 
level teasp cream tartar, 2 well-beaten eggs, and enough milk 
to make a soft batter. Next add 1 tablesp melted butter and 
1 level teasp soda dissolved in 1 tablesp warm water. Pry a 
golden brown on hot griddle. Serve with butter and maple 
syrup. — [Mrs. C. B., Pa. 

Raised Cornmeal Griddlecakes 

Pill a quart measure % full of cornmeal, then fill up to the 
top with white flour, mix thoroughly, and then pour in 2 cups 
lukewarm milk. Stir well, then add 1 teasp melted butter, 1 
teasp salt, 2 well-beaten eggs, i/^ cup fresh yeast or quarter 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Let 
rise and bake on a hot griddle. — [S. E. W.. O. 

Sweet Com Griddlecakes 

To 1 beaten e^g add 1 small cup milk, the grains from 6 ears 
sweet corn, 1 teasp sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and flour 
enough to make a batter of the proper consistency, sifted with 
Vz teasp soda and 1 teasp cream tartar. Pry in deep fat. — 
[Mrs. M. J. S., N. H. 

Green Peas Griddlecakes 

Press 1 pt cooked green peas through a sieve and add 1 cup 
hot milk, 1 teasp sugar, Yz teasp salt, 1 teasp butter, and when 



92 FARM AND HOME COOK BO 

cold add 2 well-beaten eggs, and about V2 cup flour sifted with 
2 rounding teasp baking powder. Bake on hot griddle. — [W. 
C. B., N. H 

North Carolina Corn Pone 

To 1 qt white cornmeal add 1 teasp salt and ^^ teasp soda. 
Stir this up with enough water so that the dough can be rolled 
around in the pan from side to side without sticking. This is the 
great secret of making corn pones, etc., edible without the use 
of eggs and milk. Have the skillet hot, sprinkle a little corn- 
meal in it, with the hands form small cakes of the dough about 
as large as biscuits, but oblong, leaving the impress of the four 
fingers on the upper side. When nicely brown on one side turn 
and brown on the other side. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Plain Batter Fritters 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1% cups milk, a pinch of salt, 
and 3 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. Fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. — [Mrs. H. D. 
T., Minn. 

Plain Bread Fritters 

Soak 1^/^ cups stale bread crumbs in 1 cup sweet milk. Let 
this stand a while and then add another cup sweet milk, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, a little salt, and 1 heaping teasp baking powder 
mixed with 1 small cup flour. Drop by tablespoonsful into a 
pan with hot lard and butter, and fry brown on both sides. — 
[Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 

Raised Bread Fritters 

Cut pieces about the size of a small egg from light bread 
dough, and drop into hot lard. The lard must be hot enough 
to brown a slice of raw potato. It is well to keep a few pieces 
potato in the kettle. Fry the fritters a light brown, and serve 
warm with syrup. These will not absorb grease. — [Mrs. W. W. 
P., Okla. 

Fried Com Fritters 

To 1 can corn or % doz ears green corn, cut fine, add 3 ot 
4 well-beaten eggs, 1 level teasp salt, and flour enough to make 
a stiff batter that can be easily dropped from the spoon. Drop 
by spoonsful into hot lard, and fry like doughnuts. — [S. F. R., 
N. J. 



APPLE AND RHUBARB FRITTERS 93 



Cornmeal Fritters 

To 2 cups sour milk add 1 teasp soda, i^ teasp salt, 1 well- 
"beaten egg and cornmeal enough to make a moderately thick 
batter. Drop by tablespoonsful into a hot skillet, well greased 
with lard. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Sour Milk Fritters 

Dissolve 1 teasp soda in 2 cups sour milk, add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, and lastly the well-beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Pry in hot lard or butter, and serve with syrup or 
any preferred sauce. — [A. E. H., Wash. 

Oatmeal Fritters 

To 1 cup cooked and cold oatmeal, add 1 well-beaten egg, 2 
or 3 tablesp milk, and just enough flour to bind together. Sea- 
son to taste, and fry in hot lard. Watch them closely, as they 
burn easily. This is a nice way to use left-over oatmeal from 
breakfast by serving it as fritters for supper. — [R. C. R., Pa. 

Apple Fritters 

Heat 1 cup sweet milk, and add slowly to the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, mixed with 1 teasp sugar and a little salt, then add 
2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder, and the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Lastly stir in some sour apples sliced or 
chopped fine, and drop by spoonsful into hot fat. Fry a light 
brown. Serve with cream and sugar or any preferred sauce. 
Grate some nutmeg into the batter if that flavor is liked. 
Peach and pineapple fritters can be made by this same recipe. 
— [Mrs. D. A. F., Pa. 

Rhubarb or Green Apple Fritters 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 
1 level teasp soda, and a little salt. Then add flour enough to 
make a not too thick batter. Lastly stir in 1 pt raw sliced 
rhubarb or green cooking apples. Fry in plenty of hot fat» 
and serve hot with syrup. — [B. F., la. 

Mock Oyster Fritters 

To 2 cups sweet corn, chopped fine, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
Vz cup flour and a little salt and pepper. Fry the size of oysters 
on a hot, buttered griddle. These are very fine. — [Mrs. E. S. 
W.. N. Y. 



94 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Oyster Fritters 

Drain all the liquor from 1 qt oysters, and dry them on a 
towel. Make a batter of 1 pt flour sifted with 2 teasp baking 
powder and a little salt, 1 cup milk and 2 well-beaten eggs. 
Have ready plenty hot fat, as for frying doughnuts, and to 
each tablesp batter add an oyster and drop into the fat. 
Turn with a fork and when brown and crisp lift out, drain on 
paper, and arrange on a hot platter. Serve at once. — [M. P., 
N. H. 

Green Tomato Fritters 

Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt, and let stand V2 
hour. Make a batter of 1 egg, 1 cup milk and 1 cup flour sifted 
with 1 teasp baking powder and a little salt. Dip each slice of 
tomato in the batter, and fry in hot lard. Serve as a vegetable, 
with meat and gravy. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Potato Fritters 

To 1 cup mashed potatoes add 1 well-beaten egg, % cup 
milk and V2 teasp baking powder and a little salt sifted with 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Drop by tablespoonsful 
into hot lard, and fry a delicate brown. I sometimes use white 
beans instead of the potatoes. This is a good way to use the 
left-overs. — [Mrs. W. T. P., Mo. 

Parsnip Fritters 

Wash the parsnips thoroughly and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, then drain, plunge into cold water, and rub 
off the skins, which will come off easily. Mash the parsnips, 
season with salt, pepper and butter to taste, and shape into 
small flat cakes. Roll in flour, and fry a delicate brown. — [Mrs. 
W. K., la. 

Salmon Fritters 

Remove the skin and bones from 1 can salmon, add 1 cup 
water, salt and pepper to taste, and enough flour sifted with 1 
teasp baking powder to make a batter of the proper consistency. 
Fry in hot lard. These fritters are improved by the addition 
of 1 well-beaten egg, in which case a little less water is used. — ; 
Mrs. C. D. R., Ark. 

Batter Cakes 

To 4 tablesp cornmeal add 2 tablesp flour, 1 teasp baking 
powder, % teasp salt, and water to make a medium thick bat- 
ter. Drop by tablespoonsful on hot, well greased skillet. Serve 
•with N O molasses. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 



BATTERS AND BAKING HINTS 95. 



Coating Batter 

To 1 cup flour add 1 teasp baking powder, 1 teasp salt and 
milk enough to make a batter just thick enough to coat well 
any article of food requiring it, so it will not drain off. To add 
1 well-beaten egg to this batter is a great improvement. — [S. 
A. B., N. Y. 

Fried Toast 

Dip slices of 2 or 3 day old bread into a liquid mixture of 
eggs and milk, and a little salt and sugar to taste. Fry a 
golden brown on each side. Serve hot with jelly or jam. — [Mrs. 
J. J. W., 111. 



Doughnuts keep best when placed in a stone jar, carefully 
covered. — [A. G., Mass. 

Be careful not to roll doughnuts in sugar while they are hot, 
or you will be giving them a sticky coating. — [M. G., Wash. 

\ 

In making doughnuts if % cup water is added to whatever 
other ingredients are used, they will not soak fat so readily. — • 
[Mrs. N. P. A., Mass. 

I have found that when frying doughnuts they will use up 
less grease if I add about a tablesp of vinegar to the hot lard. 
— [Mrs. H. E. B., Wash. 

To sugar doughnuts -put about half cup powdered sugar in a 
paper bag, place doughnuts, a few at a time, in the bag, and 
shake well. — [Mrs. B. S., Ct. 

I have found that eggs seem to have a tendency to make 
doughnuts dry and hard. Therefore I always make doughnuts 
without eggs. — {Mrs. G. M., N. H. 

I always have the fat hot, and plenty of it. Anything fried 
in a little lard will come out full of grease. Any fat left over 
may be used again if properly strained and clarified with a 
few pieces of raw potato. — [M. B., 111. 

Roll the dough for doughnuts about % inch thick, or less, 
and if you have no doughnut cutter use the top of a small glass 
or baking powder tin to cut the rounds, and a large sized sil- 
ver thimble to cut out the centers from the rounds. Shake 
off. any loose flour before dropping into the hot fat. — [A. G.,. 
Mass. 



96 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK I 

When making corn fritters I sometimes thicken them with ' 
rolled cracker crumbs, instead of flour. — [C. L., Ind. i 

When making cornmeal pancakes I sometimes substitute a j 
cup of cooked oatmeal for the flour. — [Mrs. N. C, Miss. 

A delicious apple pancake can be made by following potato : 
pancake recipes, and substituting apples for potatoes. — [M. W., 
Wis. 

I use lard and suet, half and half, to fry pancakes, and find j 
this combination a great saving. Also, the cakes are not so apt | 
to soak up fat. — [Mrs. G. O. F., N. H. 

Drain off the water from boiled potatoes, let it get cool, and 
use it in pancakes, in place of water. The pancakes will be ; 
much lighter this way. — [Mrs. E. P., N. Y. I 

When grating raw potatoes for potato pancakes, the work | 
should be done quickly, or the grated potatoes will turn black. | 
It is well to sprinkle lightly with flour each potato as it is j 
grated. — [A. G., Mass. j 



To remove the grain from ears of boiled corn, score each row 
lengthwise with a sharp knife, and then with the back of a sil- 
ver knife scrape the kernels from the cob. In this way the ker- 
nels will come out clean and shelled. — [Mrs. C. S., Ind. 




Biscuits, Muffins and Dumplings 

EAVY biscuits, made by newly-wed wives, 
have served as capital for the joke-makers 
for many years, but the following recipes 
are all so plain and the directions so easy 
to follow, that with their aid even the inex- 
perienced, amateur home-baker ought to be 
able to turn out creditable results in the line of biscuits, 
muffins, gems, dumplings, etc. As will be noted, soft 
doughs, little handling and quick baking . are the three 
essentials to success in this department of cookery. It 
goes without saying that only the best obtainable ingredi- 
ents should be used, as no good results can reasonably be 
expected from inferior qualities of flour, baking powder, 
spices, etc. There is no lack of variety among the follow- 
ing recipes. Try some of them. 

Baking Powder Biscuits I 

To 1 qt sifted flour add 3 heaping teasp baking powder, 1 
level teasp salt, 1 tablesp each of lard and butter, and milk 
enough to make a soft dough. Mould quickly, handle as little 
as possible, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. W. A. M., N. Y. 

Baking Powder Biscuits II 

To 1 qt sifted flour add 3 teasp baking powder, a little salt, 
1 cup rich, sweet cream, and milk enough to make a dough of 
the proper consistency. — [E. T., Va. 

Drop Biscuits 

To every pt flour add V2 teasp salt, 2 teasp baking powder, 
and .1 tablesp melted butter, with enough sweet milk to make 
a stiff batter. Drop the mixture into hot gem pans, well 
greased, and bake in a quick oven. One pt flour will make 8 
biscuits. — [Mrs. W. T. F., Mo. 

Soda Biscuits 

To 1 cup buttermilk add ^/^ cup cream, in which dissolve 1 
level teasp soda, V4, teasp salt, and flour enough to roll. Cut, 
and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. J. C. S., N. Y. 

97 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cream Tartar Biscuits j 

To 1 qt flour add 1 teasp salt, 1 teasp soda, 2 teasp cream '■ 

tartar, mix well, and then add 4 tablesp thick, sweet cream, : 

and water to make a soft dough. Do not roll, but press out ' 

lightly with the hands, cut, and bake 10 minutes in hot oven. ' 

— [J. E. P., N. H. ■. 

, j 

Sour Milk Biscuits ) 

Sift 1 qt flour with 1 level teasp salt and 2 heaping teasp j 

baking powder. Stir into this 5 tablesp sour cream, in which ; 

1 level teasp soda has been dissolved, then add sour milk : 

enough to make a dough of the proper consistency to roll. Cut j 

with a biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. If sweetened ' 

biscuits are liked add Vz cup sugar. — [Mrs. J. H. S., N. Y. < 

Bran Biscuits 

To 2 cups nice, clean bran add 1 cup wheat flour, IVz cups I 
sour milk, 1^4 cup melted butter, 3 tablesp molasses and 1 teasp 

soda dissolved in r little warm water, and put in the last thing, i 

Bake in gem pans. These are excellent for those troubled with ! 
constipation. — [Mrs. B. W. A., Cal. 

Egg Biscuits j 

To 3 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup milk, 1% cups sugar, 1 ? 

scant cup lard or butter and 4 teasp baking powder, sifted with \ 

flour enough to roll. Cut out, sprinkle sugar over each biscuit, ; 

and place a raisin in the center of each. Bake in a quick oven, i 

— [0. B. O., Kan. 1 

Graham Drop Biscuits i 

To 1 pt graham flour add % cup white flour, 1 level teasp 
soda, % teasp salt, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablesp thick, sour 
cream, and enough sour milk or buttermilk to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Mix and beat well, and drop by tablespoonsful on a well \ 
greased biscuit pan, and bake in a hot oven 20 to 25 minutes, j 
or until a light brown. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. • j 

Breakfast Biscuits ' 

i 

To % cup sugar add 1 cup cream, Yz cup seeded and chopped ; 

raisins, a little salt and nutmeg, and 1 teasp baking powder | 

sifted with flour enough to make a dough as soft as can be con- j 
veniently handled. Roll, cut, and bake as biscuits. — [A. E. R.> 

N. H. I 



SWEET POTATO AND LIGHT BISCUITS 99 



Blueberry Biscuits 

To 1 pt flour add V2 teasp salt, 3 level teasp baking powder, 
1 level tablesp butter, iy4 cup sugar, and milk enough to mois- 
ten. Have batter stiff enough to keep it shaped when dropped 
from the spoon. Lastly add 1 cup blueberries, washed, dried 
and dredged v/ith flour. Drop the batter by spoonsful in well 
greased gem pans, and bake 20 minutes. — [M. B., Ill 

Scotch Biscuits 

To 2 cups flour add 3 level teasp baking powder, 1 tablesp 
sugar, Vz teasp salt, 3 tablesp butter, 2 well-beaten eggs, % 
cup sweet cream and the grated rind of a lemon. Roll, cut and 
brush the tops with white of egg, and sprinkle with sugar. 
Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. These are fine. — [Mrs. C. P Pa. 

Sweet Biscuits 

To 4 cups light bread sponge add 1 cup sugar, ^2 cup melted 
butter, and 2 or 3 beaten eggs. Mix well, then add enough 
flour to make a soft dough. Let rise, and when light knead 
into biscuits, let rise again and when light, bake. — [Mrs. J. B., 
Kan. 

Ginger Biscuits 

To l^/^ cups molasses add scant % cup hot water, 1 tablesp 
shortening, 1 teasp soda, % teasp ginger, and flour enough to 
thicken to the consistency of cake batter. Bake in a shallow 
pan, and watch carefully as it burns easily. Cut up in large 
pieces while it is still warm. To be eaten with butter, like bis- 
cuits. — [Mrs. E. S. M., N. Y. 

Sweet Potato Biscuits 

Break into halves 3 good sized baked sweet potatoes, then 
take out the centers, and press through a sieve. Add scant 
teasp salt, 1 tablesp butter, 1 pt milk, 1 beaten egg and 2 
rounding teasp baking powder sifted with 1 pt flour. Pour into 
well greased patty pans and bake in a hot oven about 25 min- 
utes. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Light Biscuits 

Scald 1 cup milk, add scant % cup sugar and 2 tablesp but- 
ter. When cool add this to 2 cups light bread sponge, with, 
flour enough to mould into a loaf. Let rise until very light, then 
mould into biscuits, and when light again, bake. — [Mrs. W. C. 
T., N. Y. 

LOFC. 



100 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK \ 

Bread Biscuits I 

To some light bread dough, enough for a small loaf, add ^^ j 
cup lard, 1 scant teasp soda, 2 tablesp sugar and 1 egg. Mix f 
thoroughly, add flour as required, mould into biscuits, and let ] 
rise. Bake in a quick oven. Raisins or currants may be added 1 
if liked. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. t 

Raised Biscuits ;| 

Dissolve V2 cake dry yeast in a little warm water. While \ 
this is dissolving beat butter the size of an egg with- 2 tablesp I 
sugar and 1 egg. Stir this and the dissolved yeast into 2 cups ; 
lukewarm milk, add ^/^ teasp salt, and flour enough to make a ; 
dough just stiff enough to handle. Cover, set in a warm place, ' 
and let rise over night. Knead down in the morning, let rise | 
again, then mould into biscuits, and when light, bake about 35 ; 
minutes. If a half cake compressed yeast is used, the sponge I 
can be started in the morning. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. j 



Maryland Biscuits 



To 2 qts flour add 1 teasp salt and 1 cup butter. Work the j 
butter well into the flour, and wet with cold water to form a i 
dough. Then place on kneading board and beat about 15 min- i 
utes with a potato masher, slowly sifting flour on the board | 
to keep the dough from sticking. When hard beat at least 15 ; 
minutes longer, then roll out V2 inch thick, cut with a biscuit ■ 
cutter, prick holes in each biscuit with a fork, and bake imme- j 
diately. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. • 

I 

Madison Biscuits ;j 

To 2 qts flour add V2 cup yeast, 3 well-beaten eggs, % cup j 
sugar, 2 cups milk, 1 tablesp salt and water enough to make \ 
a batter stiff enough to hold a spoon upright. Set away in a i 
warm place to rise, then work in a little flour, and cut out into ' 
biscuits. Let this stand 10 or 15 minutes, and then bake in a • 
hot oven. — [Mrs. D. T. K., N. C. \ 

Mush Biscuits I 

Add a little salt to 1 qt boiling water, stir in 1 scant cup , 
white cornmeal, and boil 20 minutes. When cooled to luke- 
warm add V2 cup lard and 1 cup yeast sponge. Knead stiff 
with flour, set away in a crock, and let rise. When light, work ; 
it down and then set away in a cold place, or put it in the ice j 
box. This dough is then ready to roll out in small biscuits j 
and to bake at any time you want, a few at a time, and they :\ 
are very fine. — [E. E. S., 111. 






SWEET BUNS AND MUFFINS 101 

Squash Biscuit 

To 1 qt winter squash, boiled and sifted, add 1 cup hop 
yeast, or 2 cakes compressed yeast, 1 cup sugar, 3 large tablesp 
butter, 1 teasp soda and a little salt. If squash is very dry it 
will require about V2 cup sweet milk. Mix all these ingredients 
together with flour enough for a sponge. When light mix in 
some flour the same as for any biscuit dough, but do not make 
the dough too stiff. When light the second time make into bis- 
cuits, let rise again, and then bake. Mix the sponge while the 
squash is warm. — [Mrs. I. B. R., Wis. 

Sweet Buns 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 egg, V2 cup sour cream, % cup butter- 
milk or sour milk, in which dissolve 1 level teasp soda, then 
add flour enough to make a smooth batter, stiff enough to keep 
its shape when deposited by tablespoonsful on a buttered tin. 
Bake in a quick oven and watch closely. This is very fine. If 
liked, flavor with caraway seed, for a change. — [N. P., N. H. 

Breakfast Cakes 

Cream 1 cup brown sugar with % cup butter (or butter and 
lard mixed), add 1 well-beaten egg, 1 cup molasses, 2' level 
teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup sour milk, and 4 cups flour sifted 
with 1 teasp each cinnamon, salt and ginger. Bake in gem 
pans. — [Mrs. A. I., la. 

Muffins 

To 1 beaten egg add 1 cup milk and 1 cup flour sifted with 
1 teasp baking powder and a pinch of salt. Bake in hot, well 
greased gem tins in hot oven. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Whole Wheat Muffins 

To 1 V2 cups whole wheat flour add ^^ cup white flour, 2 
teasp baking powder, or 2 teasp cream tartar and 1 teasp soda, 
1 well-beaten egg, 1 tablesp molasses and 1 cup milk. — [B. H. 
K., Me. 

Graham Muffins (No Eggs) 

To 2 cups sour milk add 1 teasp soda, a little salt and enough 
graham flour to make a medium stiff batter. Bake in quick 
oven. — [Mrs. W. T. P., Mo, 

Graham Muffins 

To 1 qt fresh churned or "clabber" milk add 1 level teasp 
each soda and salt, and stir in enough graham flour to make 



102 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



a medium thick batter. Lastly stir in 1 well-beaten egg. 
Have muffin pans hot and well greased, put 1 tablesp of the 
batter in each ring, and bake in a hot oven. Serve hot with 
butter and sugar, or jelly. Equal parts of shorts and seconds 
well mixed make an excellent graham flour, or it may be 
ground from the wheat, but must not be bolted. — [I. H., Ala. 

Rye Muffins 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup rye meal, % teasp salt, 2 
teasp baking powder, ^A cup sugar, piece of butter the size of 
an egg, 1 well-beaten egg, and 1 cup milk. — [Unidentified. 

Sour Cream Muffins 

To 1 pt sour cream add y2 teasp soda, a little salt, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. These are 
extra fine. — [Mrs. E. E. B., Md. 

Buttermilk 3Iuffins 

To 1 pt rich buttermilk add % teasp soda and mix in suffi- 
cient flour to make a stiff batter. Lastly add 1 well-beaten egg 
and a pinch of salt. Bake in patty pans or rings, in a quick 
oven. — [Mrs. J. G. M., Cal. 

Yeast Muffins 

Scald 1 pt milk and when almost cool add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
3 tablesp yeast, 1 scant teasp salt, and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Let rise 4 or 5 hours and bake in muffin rings in 
a hot oven for about 10 minutes. — [M. B., 111. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Sift 1 pt flour with 3 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, add 1 beaten egg, with 2 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp melted 
butter, % cup milk, and 1 cup cooked oatmeal. Bake in gem 
pans or muffin rings. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Oatmeal Muffins (Yeast) 

To 1 large cup freshly cooked oatmeal, add 1 tablesp butter, 
1 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt and after mixing well add ^A to 
% yeast cake dissolved in a little warm water, and then add 
enough flour to mould very stiff. Let rise until light, drop in 
warm well buttered gem pans, let rise again until soft, and 
bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. — [E. E. K., Mass. 



RICE MUFFINS AND RYE GEMS 103 



Honey MuflSns 

Sift together 3 cups flour, 3 teasp baking powder and % 
teasp salt. Then work in 3 tablesp butter and add 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 cup milk and % cup strained honey. Bake in 
gem tins or muflBn rings in a moderate oven. — [C. B. H., Mich. 

Rice Muffins 

To 1 cup cold boiled rice add 2 cups milk, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 3 tablesp melted butter, 1 tablesp sugar, a little salt and 
2 teasp baking powder sifted with flour enough to make a soft 
batter that will drop from the spoon. Fill hot gem irons, well 
greased, and bake Vz hour. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Bran Muffins 

To 1 cup nice, clean bran add 2 cups cornmeal, 2 cups sour 
milk in which 1 teasp soda has been dissolved, a little salt and 
1 tablesp molasses or sugar. Bake in muffin tins in hot oven. 
These are a pleasant cure for constipation, if eaten once a day, 
and are very good for small children so troubled. — [B. G. B., 
Kan. 

Southern Com Muffins 

To 1 pt buttermilk add 1 level teasp soda, 1 pt cornmeal, 1 
teasp lard or butter, 1 beaten egg, and a little salt and sugar. 
Bake in hot, well greased muffin pans, in a quick oven, and 
serve warm, wrapped in napkins. This is an old Southern 
"mammy's" recipe. — [Mrs. O. W. S., Wis. 

Rye Gems 

To 1 cup white flour add 1 cup rye, % cup sugar and 1 cup 
sour milk in which 1 level teasp soda has been dissolved. 
Bake in hot, well greased gem pans, in a hot oven. — [Mrs. W. 
L. J., Vt. 

Ginger Gems 

Cream V2 cup sugar with % cup butter, add % cup molas- 
ses, V2 cup hot water and 2 cups flour, sifted with 1 teasp each 
ginger, cinnamon, soda and a little cloves. Bake in gem pans 
in a hot oven. — [Mrs. C. E. R., la. 

Oatmeal Gems 

Soak over night 2 cups rolled oats in 1 V2 cups sour milk. In 
the morning add ^ cup molasses, 1 scant teasp soda dissolved 



104 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

in a little cold water, 1 level teasp salt, 2 well-beaten eggs, 
and 1 cup flour. Bake in a hot oven. These gems are very- 
good without the eggs, when eggs are scarce. — [Mrs. C. E. A., 
F. H. 

Graham Gems 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 pt milk, a little salt,, and enough 
graham flour to make a stiff batter that will drop from a spoon. 
Bake in hot and well buttered gem pans, in a hot oven, about 
20 minutes. — [M. B., 111. 

Buttermilk Gems 

To 1 cup buttermilk add 2 cups sour cream, 1 teasp each salt 
and soda, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter which will drop from a spoon. Bake in well 
greased gem pans in quick oven. — [Mrs. N. F., Pa. 

Date Gems 

To 1 pt graham flour and 1 pt white flour add % teasp salt,. 
1 level teasp soda, i/4 cup sugar, 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in 
small pieces, and lastly enough rich buttermilk to make a stiff 
batter. Drop in hot, well greased gem pans, half filling each, 
and bake in quick oven until a golden brown. Raisins may be 
substituted for dates, and instead of making a stiff batter, less 
buttermilk can be used, the dough quickly turned out on a 
board, rolled % inch thick, cut into biscuits and brushed with 
sweet milk, and baked in a baking pan in a quick oven. — [E. 
F. S., Cal. 

Corn Dodgers 

To 1 qt cornmeal add a little salt, 1 tablesp butter, scald 
with boiling water, and boil hard for a minute or two, then 
drop the batter into well greased gem tins, and bake in a 
quick oven. — [A. E. H., Wash. 

Corn Pone 

Dissolve 1 teasp soda in 1 pt buttermilk, add scant teasp salt,. 
1 tablesp sugar and enough cornmeal mixed with a little flour 
to make a medium stiff batter. Lastly add 2 tablesp melted 
lard. Bake in a quick oven. — [N. H. G., O. 

Pop-Overs 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup milk, a pinch of salt, and sift 
in a little at a time 1 heaping cup flour. Beat well for 10 min- 
utes, and bake in hot, v/ell greased irons. Baking powder or 
soda is not needed. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 



POP-OVERS AND BUCKWHEAT CAKES 105 



Graham Pop-Overs 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 2 cups milk, 2 cups graham flour, 
1 cup white flour and ^ teasp salt. Beat well, half fill hot, well 
greased gem pans with the batter, and bake about 20 min- 
utes in a hot oven. — [Mrs J. L. T., N. Y. 

Graham Puffs 

Mix 1 cup graham flour with 1 cup pastry flour and % teasp 
salt, add slowly 2 cups milk, add 2 well-beaten eggs, beat 
again, then turn at once into hot buttered gem pans, filling 
each about % full, and bake in a hot oven about 30 minutes. 
— [Miss E. W., N. H. 

Cornstarch Puffs 

Cream 1 cup sugar with V2 cup butter, add beaten yolks of 
4 eggs, and gradually and alternately 1 cup cornstarch with the 
beaten whites of the eggs. Mix 2 level teasp baking powder 
with the cornstarch, and lastly add 1 teasp vanilla. Bake in 
well greased gem pans in hot oven. This recipe makes a dozen 
puffs. — [Mrs. B. S., W. Va. 

Potato Scones 

To 2 cups mashed potatoes add 2 cups flour, 2ozs butter, 2 
level teasp baking powder, ^ teasp salt, and milk enough to 
make a dough that can be handled. Roll out ^^ inch thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter, and bake in quick oven about 15 min- 
utes. — [Mrs. P. A. B., 111. 

Oatmeal Scones 

To 1 cup oatmeal flakes add % cup flour, 1 teasp salt, 1% 
teasp baking powder, 1 cup sweet milk and 1 well-beaten egg. 
Bake at once in hot, well greased gem irons, filling them half 
full. It will take about y2 an hour in a quick oven. This 
recipe makes 1 dozen scones. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Johnny Cake 

To 2 cups cornmeal, add 1 cup wheat flour, 1^ cups sour 
milk, y2 cup sour cream in which dissolve 2 scant teasp soda» 
a pinch of salt and % cup sugar. — [Mrs. E. McC, N. Y. 

Yeast Buckwheat Cakes 

When the cakes are first started they should be set in the 
evening. Use 1 qt warm water, 1 cake yeast and buckwheat 



106 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and white flour, half and half, enough to make an ordinary bat- 
ter. Put in a warm place to rise, and in the morning add V2 
teasp soda dissolved in a little warm water. After the cakes 
have been started all that is necessary is to put away each 
morning a little of the batter to use in the evening as a starter 
by adding a little warm water and more flour. — [Mrs. E. S. W., 
Okla. 

Buttermilk Buckwheat Cakes 

Dissolve 1 level teasp soda in 2 cups buttermilk, add % cup 
sweet milk, 1 level teasp salt and then stir in 1 pt buckwheat 
flour. Beat well and bake immediately in hot oven. — [Mrs. W. 
K., la. 

Plain Waffles 

To 1 cup milk add 1 well-beaten egg, 2 teasp melted butter, 
and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a little 
salt. Bake in "piping hot" waffle irons, until crisp and brown. 
Butter while hot and eat with honey. — [K. A. D., N. D. 

Buttermilk Waffles 

To 1 well-beaten egg add a little salt, ^2 cup thick sour 
cream, 1 pt buttermilk (or sour milk will do), and 1 level 
teasp soda sifted with flour enough to make a stiff batter. — . 
[H. B. H., N. Y. 

Baked Dumplings 

Mix same as for biscuit, only use a little less shortening, roll 
thin, mark in 2-inch squares, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done break where marked, and serve with broth or soup poured 
over them. — [M. E. A., O. 

Boiled Dumplings 

To 1 cup boiling water add 1 pinch salt and % cup butter, 
then stir in 1 cup flour, and when sufllciently cooled off add 3 
eggs, one at a time, stirring vigorously. Drop by tablespoons- 
ful into the boiling soup and cover the kettle tightly. — [M. H., 
Neb. 

Drop Dumplings I 

Sift 1 qt flour with 2 teasp baking powder and 1 teasp salt, 
and then stir in milk to make a stiff batter that will just drop 
from the spoon. Wet a tablesp in boiling liquid and drop the 



BATTER AND MEAT DUMPLINGS 107 



batter by the tablespoonful into the soup or broth. Be sure to 
wet the spoon thoroughly every time, so the batter will not 
stick to it. Water can be used instead of milk, in which 
case add a teasp shortening. Also sour milk and soda can be 
used instead of sweet milk and baking powder. — [I. Y. E., 
Col. 

Drop Dumplings II 

To 1 well-beaten egg add 1 cup water and 1 teasp baking 
powder sifted with enough flour to make a stiff batter. Drop 
by spoonsful into boiling soup and boil about 15 or 20 minutes. 

— [Mrs. D. D., la. 

Broth Dumplings 

Sift 1 qt flour and a pinch of salt into a mixing pan, make 
a hole in the center, and pour in 2 cups hot chicken or beef 
broth. Stir it vigorously, roll thin, cut in small squares and add 
to the soup or broth, allowing them to boil about 20 minutes. 

— [L. L. T., N. D. 

Light Bread Dumplings 

When moulding the bread into loaves, mould some of the 
dough into small biscuits, and allow a half hour for these to 
rise. In a granite kettle place V2 cup butter and 1 pt water, 
and let this come to a boil, then put in the light biscuits, 
cover tightly, and let boil about 20 minutes, or until done. 
Serve with sweetened milk or cream. — [Mrs. R. M., Ind. 

Liver Dumplings 

Chop 1 lb beef liver very fine (it cannot be chopped too 
fine), and reject all skins and fibres. Add to this chopped 
liver 2 beaten eggs, % teasp salt, a generous sprinkle of ground 
allspice, and after beating all thoroughly, stir in 2 large cups 
flour. Drop by tablespoonsful into the boiling soup and boil 
about 8 to 10 minutes. — [Mrs. G.. Wis. 

Meat Dumplings 

Chop very fine V2 lb lean pork and ^: lb beef, add 2 ozs 
melted butter, and the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 ozs stale bread which 
was soaked in water and squeezed out, also a little salt and nut- 
meg, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs. Mould into 
small dumplings, and drop in the boiling soup and boil until 
done. — [A. G., Ma§s. 



108 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Egg Dumplings 

About 1 hour before you want the dumplings ready to 
serve, beat up 4 eggs until light and add to them V2 pt hot 
soup broth and flavor with nutmeg, salt, and a little finely 
chopped parsley. Pour into a well buttered vessel and stand 
this into another vessel filled with boiling water. Allow the 
mixture to become thick, but not hard. When thick drop by 
the spoonsful into hot soup. — [A. G., Mass. 

Potato Dumplings 

Cream a piece of butter about the size of a small egg, add 
yolks of 2 eggs, a saucerful of stale bread, grated, a saucerful 
cold potatoes, grated, (the potatoes must be nice and dry), 
season with salt and nutmeg and lastly add the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Mould into small dumplings, drop into the boiling 
soup and boil about 10 minutes. — [A. G., Mass. 

German Bread Dumplings 

Soak a stale loaf of bread (at least 4 or 5 days old) in water 
enough to cover and when soft squeeze out as much of the 
water as possible and break the bread up into crumbs. Then 
add 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablesp shortening, 2 tablesp flour, 
a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg. Drop by the tablespoonful 
into salted, boiling water, and cook about 5 minutes, with 
the kettle uncovered. These are very good to serve with 
roast meat and gravy. It is a good plan to first boil one dump- 
ling and experiment with it, to see if the seasoning is just 
right, or if there is enough flour to hold them together. — [N. 
P., N. H. 



If you have trouble to get the biscuits to brown, try using 
very shallow baking pans. — [Mrs. W. H. B., Cal. 

Twin biscuits are nice for a change. Roll out thin, cut, and 
put together in pairs, with melted butter between. — [Mrs. A. 
W., N. Y. 

Baking powder mal?:es just as nice biscuits with sour milk as 
with sweet, in fact I think the sour milk and baking powder 
biscuits are usually more tender. — [Mrs. J. E. W., Kan. 

Instead of working the shortening into the biscuit dough, I 
have found this to be a quicker way: Before putting the bis- 
cuits in the oven make a dent in each with a knife, and put a 
little piece of butter in each. — [Mrs. A. F. H., N. Y. 



BISCUIT AND MUFFIN HINTS 109 

Use any good biscuit recipe, but have the dough softer and 
drop from a spoon, instead of rolling it out. You will find the 
biscuits are much lighter, and can be more quickly made. Soft 
dough is the secret of good biscuits. — [Mrs. E. E. W., Pa. 

A nice way to make biscuits is not to put any shortening in 
the dough, as nearly all do, but to put some lard in the bak- 
ing pan, heat and dip the biscuits in, first on one side and then 
on the other. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. — [Mrs. H. F., 
Mo. 

The dough for soda biscuits should be barely stiff enough to 
handle. If the dough is too stiff the biscuits will be failures. 
Have a hot oven when you put them in, for one of the most 
Important biscuit secrets is to have them rise and bake 
quickly. — [N. P., N. H. 

Baking powder biscuits should be worked as little as possi- 
ble. Instead of rolling the dough drop the batter by spoons- 
ful on a greased pan, and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes. 
Do not crowd the biscuits in the pan. A stiff dough worked 
liked bread makes a tough biscuit. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

When making baking powder biscuits handle and knead as 
little as possible. Have the water or milk as cold as possible, 
and the oven real hot. Make it a point to get the biscuits in 
the oven as quickly as possible. To improve the crust grease 
the biscuits on top with melted butter just before placing In 
the oven. — [Miss A. B., Wis. 

I find it is never necessary to use soda in making biscuits, 
no matter how sour the milk used may be. When the milk is 
sour I just add a teasp or more baking powder. Biscuits made 
with buttermilk and baking powder are simply delicious, and 
there is no danger of them being yellow or soggy, provided one 
uses a good grade baking powder. — [Mrs. E. T., Cal. 



The secret of good muffins is to have the batter as stiff as 
can be beaten, and to beat it well, as that makes the muffins 
light. — [Mrs. P. H., Tex. 

Be sure to bake all gems and muffins in a hot oven, and 
take them out as soon as they are done. Anything made with 
soda will turn yellow or brown and taste strong, if overdone. — 
[G. B., N. Y. 

Deep gem irons are best. They should be well greased and 
hot when the mixture is put in them, and should be only half 
filled. The oven should also be very hot. The harder the gem 
batter is beaten the better. — [K. A. D., N. D. 



110 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

When dropping dumplings by the spoonful into the soup, be 
sure to wet the spoon thoroughly in the soup every time, to 
prevent the batter from sticking to the spoon. — [A. G., Mass. 

The broth or soup should be boiling when the dumplings are 
dropped in, and the kettle tightly covered while the dumplings 
are boiling. The secret of having them light lies in not dis- 
turbing them while they are cooking. — [A. G., Mass. 

In making gems or breakfast cakes, I find that they will be 
just as light, even if the egg which the recipe usually calls for 
is omitted, provided the batter is well beaten and the gem 
irons and oven are both very hot. — [Mrs. G. H. W., N. H. 

Always have the waffle molds well greased. A rind of fat 
meat is best, as it greases more evenly than lard. Have the 
molds good and hot, and bake the waffles crisp and brown. 
When made right they will almost "melt in your mouth." — 
[Mrs. W. B. F., N. C. 

When you have a large quantity of dumplings to boil, it is 
a good plan to first mould them all and lay them out on a 
platter, so that they can all be dropped into the boiling liquid 
at once, as otherwise those dropped in first would be boiled 
longer than the last. — [A. G., Mass. 

Bread put to soak for dumplings must not be fresh nor 
must the water be warm, otherwise it will be a sticky mass. 
The bread should be several days old, and be soaked only a 
short while in cold water, after which it should be squeezed 
out with the hands and broken up into fine crumbs. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Though the quantities called for in recipes are usually about 
correct, it is the best plan, since ingredients vary so much, to 
boil one dumpling as a sample. When dumplings are removed 
from the soup, they should be broken open to allow the steam 
to escape. This will prevent them from becoming soggy. — [A. 
G., Mass. 




Puddings, Gustards and Sweet Sauces 

HEN fruit is plentiful puddings appear 
often as dessert on well supplied farm 
tables, and at all seasons puddings, when 
well made and not too rich, afford whole- 
some and favorite variety to the daily bill 
of fare. Every cook will surely be able to 
find among the following extensive collection of 
recipes something to suit her culinary resources and the 
family taste. The same recipes can frequently be used by 
substituting some other fruit, or varying the flavor. There 
are tricks in all trades, and a clever cook can manage to 
make occasional changes to suit herself, without impairing 
the result. 

Apple Pudding 

To 1 cup cream add 1 beaten egg, 2 teasp baking powder, 
and a little salt sifted with flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Lastly stir in about ^^ doz large apples chopped fine. 
Bake in moderate oven. The hardest winter apples can be 
used as long as they are chopped fine enough and the pudding 
is baked slowly. Sour cream and 1 teasp soda can be used if 
preferred, in that case omitting baking powder. Serve with a 
sweet sauce. — [Mrs. I. M. C, Wash. 

Crab Apple Pndding 

Core the apples and stew until soft in a syrup made of sugar 
and water. Do not have more syrup than the apples will take 
up, but be careful not to let the latter burn. When they are 
done, put them in a buttered pudding dish, and if they are not 
quite sweet enough, add sugar to taste. Make a soft batter of 
1 pt flour, 2 teasp baking powder, and milk. Turn this over 
the apples, cover the dish, and steam about l^/^ hours. Serve 
with cream. Another good way is to cover the apples v*^ith a 
thick custard made of milk, egg yolks, cornstarch and sugar, 
using the whites to make a meringue for the top. — [N. P., N. H. 

Dutch Apple Pudding 

Make a stiff batter of 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teasp baking 
powder, i/4 cup butter, 1 egg, 1 scant cup milk, 2 tablesp sugar, 

111 



112 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and a little salt. Pour in a shallow, buttered pudding dish, cut 
apples in small pieces and press into top of batter, sprinkle over 
with sugar and cinnamon, and bake about 30 minutes. Serve 
with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Apple Slump 

Pare, quarter and core about ^^ doz tart apples, and place 
them in a shallow buttered granite pudding dish. Pour over 
them 1 scant cup water, add the grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 1 cup sugar, and butter the size of a small egg. Place 
in a hot oven and then make a rich cream biscuit crust. Cut 
in small rounds with a tin box about size of a 50-cent piece, 
or if you have no such cutter handy, pinch off little pieces of 
the dough, flatten with the hands, and lay these little biscuits 
over the apples, closely together, but not overlapping. Cover 
the pudding dish, and when the pudding is nearly done, remove 
the cover to brown the biscuits. Serve hot with cream or any 
perf erred sauce. — [Mrs. K. C, Mo. 

Baked Apple Roll 

Make a dough of 1 qt flour, 1 teasp salt, 2 teasp baking pow- 
der, 2 tablesp butter, and 1 pt milk. Roll out about i/4 inch 
thick, and spread with chopped apples. Roll up and pinch the 
ends together to prevent the juice from running out. Place 
in a baking pan with V2 cup butter, 2 cups sugar and 3 cups 
water. Bake about 1 V2 hours. This will make its own sauce. 
—[Mrs. D. H. H., Ida. 

Boiled Apple Roll 

Make a dough of 1 qt flour, 1 tablesp lard, a little salt, and 
1 teasp soda, mixed with sour milk enough to make a dough 
that will roll. Roll about i/4 inch thick, cover well with finely 
sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and a little nutmeg or cin- 
namon, and roll up, carefully pinching the ends together ta 
prevent the escape of juice. Put this roll in a well floured bag, 
and boil out one hour. The water must be boiling when the 
pudding is put in, and must continue to boil without interrup- 
tion until the pudding is done. Any other fruit may be substi- 
tuted for apples. Serve with any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. R. 
T. B., N. C. 

Baked Brown Betty 

Grate some dry bread quite fine and pare and core apples 
and chop fine. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of apples, sprinkle with sugar, and a lit- 
tle nutmeg or cinnamon, dot with bits of butter, and alternate 




THE CUTHBERT RED RASPBERRY. 



ORANGE AND LEMON PUDDINGS 113 



in this way until the dish is filled. If the apples are not very 
juicy moisten with a little water. Bake until the apples are 
done and the pudding is brown on top. The top layer should 
be of bread crumbs, sprinkled with sugar and dotted with but- 
ter. Serve warm with cream. — [Mrs. G. O. F., N. H. 

Peach Pudding 

Fill a pudding dish with whole peeled peaches, pour over 
them 2 cups water, cover closely and bake until tender. Then 
drain off the juice, and let it stand until cool. Add to the 
juice 1 pt sweet milk, 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 
tablesp melted butter, and 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- 
ing powder and a little salt. Beat well and pour this batter 
over the peaches in the pudding dish. Bake a rich brown and 
serve with cream. — [Mrs. W. K., Cal. 

Orange Pudding 

Make a boiled custard of eggs, milk and cornstarch, sweet- 
ened to taste. Put a layer of this in a dish, then a layer of 
sliced oranges, another of custard, and so on until the dish is 
filled. Chill, and serve with whipped cream. In preparing the 
oranges be sure to remove all the white particles of the peel 
and between sections, and be careful that no pits remain in the 
pieces. — [Mrs. H. M. C, Ind. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding 

Put over the fire in an agate vessel 2 V2 cups water or milk, 
and 1 cup sugar. When this is boiling stir into it 4 heaping 
teasp cornstarch dissolved in i^ cup water. Let this boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly, then remove from fire and add 
the juice and grated rind of 3 lemons, the beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, and 1 teasp butter. Fill small preserve dishes with this 
mixture and let them stand a while to allow the pudding ta 
thicken and get cold. When ready to serve top off each dish 
with a meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs, pow~ 
dered sugar, and a little lemon flavoring. — [Mrs. C. von W.,. 
N. J. 

Frosted Lemon Pudding 

To 1 pt bread or cake crumbs (or both mixed) add 1 qt 
milk, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, the beaten yolks of 
3 eggs, 4 tablesp sugar, and a pinch of salt. Turn into a well 
buttered pudding dish and bake. When done cover with a 
frosting made of the whites of the eggs and 3 tablesp powdered 
sugar, and return to the oven to brown slightly. — [N. P., N. H. 



114 FARM AND HOME: COOK BOOK 



Banana Pudding 

Crep.m % cup butter with ^/^ cup sugar, add 1 beaten egg, 
% cup milk, and 2 cups flour sifted with i/^ teasp soda and 1 
teasp cream tartar. Flavor with vanilla. Pour ^ of this 
batter into a buttered pudding dish, then 3 ripe bananas, sliced, 
cover with remainder of batter, and steam about l^^ hours. 
Serve with a sauce prepared as follows: Make a syrup of V2 
cup sugar and 1 cup water. When it threads remove from fire, 
add 2 tablesp lemon juice, 2 well-beaten eggs, a little salt, and 

3 mashed ripe bananas. Beat until smooth. — [J. E. G., Me. 

Fig Pudding 

To 1 cup finely chopped suet add 1 lb figs, cut fine, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups milk, and 2 cups bread crumbs. 
Turn into a well greased mould and boil 3 hours. Serve hot. — - 
[Mrs. J. K., N. Y. 

Date Pudding 

To 1 lb dates, cut fine, add ^A lb suet, chopped fine, i/4 lb 
bread crumbs, i/4 lb sugar, beaten yolks of 2 eggs, y2 cup 
milk, and spices to taste. Lastly fold in the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Steam 2 hours. Serve with a hard sauce. — [P. R. 
H. 

Persimmon Pudding 

Mash V2 gal good, sweet persimmons, using 1 cup water, and 
strain through a cloth to remove seed and skin. Then add l^^ 
cups sweet milk, % cup melted butter, 2 cups sugar, and 
enough flour sifted with 2 teasp baking powder to make a 
medium stiff batter. Turn into a buttered biscuit pan, and 
bake slowly about 1 hour. Let cool in the pan, and serve cold, 
sliced like cake. This is worth trying by lovers of persimmons. 
— [Mrs. H. M. F., N. C. 

Prune Pudding 

To 1 well-beaten egg add V2 cup sugar, 1 y2 cups milk, and 

4 cups flour sifted with 1 V2 teasp baking powder, and i/^ teasp 
salt. Turn this batter into a well-buttered pudding dish and 
pour over the top ^, lb stewed and sweetened prunes from 
which the pits have been removed. Bake about 30 minutes, 
and serve with sugar and cream. — Mrs. A. D., 111. 

Prune Whip 

Cook 1 lb dried prunes until very soft, in no more water than 
necessary. When done remove the stones, mash fine, add 1 
cup sugar, mix well, and then add the stiffly beaten whites of 
4 eggs. Bake about 30 minutes. Serve cold or warm, with 
sweetened and whipped cream. — [C. B. H., Mich. 



FRUIT AND BATTER PUDDINGS 115 

Rhubarb Pudding 

Cut tender rhubarb into small pieces and add 1 cup sugar 
to each pint rhubarb. Place in a buttered pudding dish and 
cover with batter made of 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup milk and flour 
enough to make a thick batter, sifted with 2 teasp baking pow- 
der and a little salt. Bake, and v/hen done turn out on a plat- 
ter, so that the rhubarb will be on top. Serve warm with sugar 
and cream. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

CheiTy Pudding 

Stew and sweeten well 1 qt pitted cherries. Make a batter 
of 1 1/2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder and a little 
salt, add 1 beaten egg and milk enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Drop by spoonsful over the stewed cherries, cover the ves- 
sel well and cook on top of range about 2 minutes. — [Mrs. 
E. E. S., Pa. 

Cuii'aiit Pudding 

To 1 qt flour add 1 pt finely chopped suet, 1 level teasp salt, 
1 pt ripe currants, and enough water to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour, and serve while warm. 
— [R. A. McD„ S. D. 

Cranberry Pudding 

Moisten 2 cups bread crumbs with % cup melted butter, 
sprinkle a layer of these crumbs in a buttered pudding dish, 
next add a layer of stewed and sweetened cranberries, about 1 
doz large seeded raisins, a little grated lemon peel, and some 
sugar. Continue in this way until the crumbs are all used up, 
then cover the pudding dish and bake about 20 minutes. Serve 
warm with a hard sauce. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Danish Berry Pudding 

Cook blackberries, raspberries, currants or any other berry, 
in enough water to cover. When done strain twice through a 
sieve, put over the fire again, sv^eeten to taste, let come to a 
boil, and then thicken with cornstarch, moistened in a little 
cold water. Flavor to taste, and pour into cups that have been 
wet with cold water. Let stand until cold, and stiff, and when 
ready to serve turn cups upside down over a saucer and the 
contents x^ill slip out intact. Serve with cream. — [Mrs. J. D. 
J., Cal. 

Christmas Pudding 

The ingredients needed for this old-fashioned pudding are 1 
qt each seeded raisins, chopped apples, chopped beef suet, stale 
bread crumbs, flour and sweet milk, and 1 > pt each currants. 



116 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

citron and sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teasp salt and 8 eggs. 
Dredge the fruit thoroughly from the 1 qt flour. Into a large 
howl put the eggs and then stir in the crumbs and the dredged 
fruit and suet. Dip the baking bag in boiling water, and then 
dredge it from the qukrt of flour, and put whatever remains of 
the flour into the pudding mixture. Next pour the pudding in 
the floured bag, and tie firmly, allowing room to swell, and boil 
3 hours steadily in plenty boiling water. Replenish with boil- 
ing water when necessary. This pudding is nice when served 
with the following sauce: Simmer for a few minutes over a 
slow fire, stirring constantly, ^/^ lb sweet butter, % lb brown 
sugar, and the yolk of 1 egg; lastly add V2 pt canned grape 
juice and after removing from the fire grate in a little nutmeg. 
— [Mrs. D., Kan. 

Blackberry Pudding 

Make a plain pie crust or a rich biscuit dough, roll out 
about 1/4 inch thick, and cover with ripe, clean blackberries. 
Sprinkle with sugar, fold over the dough, add more berries and 
sugar, fold over again, and repeat this till all the dough is 
folded over, so it will make a flat, long roll. Press the ends 
together securely, place roll in a well greased pan, and bake 
until a light brown. Serve cold with cream and sugar. — [M. 
A. W., Ind. 

Suet Pudding 

Mix 1 cup each seeded and chopped raisins and suet, % cup 
currants, 1 cup syrup, 1 cup sour milk, in which has been dis- 
solved 2 even teasp soda, and enough flour with a little salt to 
make a stiff batter. Steam 2 hours, and serve with lemon 
sauce. — [Mrs. R. S. Q., Mont. 

Suet Pudding (No Eggs) 

To 1 cup finely chopped suet add 4 cups flour sifted with 1 
teasp baking powder, i/^ lb seeded and chopped raisins, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup milk, a little cinnamon, and a pinch salt. Boil 
about 2y2 hours. Serve warm with the following sauce: Mix 
1 tablesp cornstarch with a little cold water, and then pour 
over, stirring vigorously, % cup boiling water and 2 tablesp 
vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablesp butter, 1 cup sugar, and V2 
grated nutmeg. Boil until thick and smooth. — [Mrs. L. J., 
Cal 

Baked Suet Pudding 

To % cup chopped suet add 2 cups bread crumbs, V2 cup 
sugar, 1/4 lb seeded raisins, 2 well-beaten eggs, and 1 scant 



SUET AND PLUM PUDDINGS 117 

cup flour sifted with 1 teasp baking powder. Place this mixture 
in a buttered baking dish and pour over cold milk enough to 
almost cover. Bake about y^, hour or a little longer, if neces- 
sary. Serve hot with whipped cream or any preferred sauce. — 
[E. B., Mich. 

Plum Pudding 

To 1 well-beaten egg add Vz cup brown sugar, y^ cup N O 
molasses, 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 1 teasp soda, 1 cup 
chopped suet well dredged with flour, 1 lb each raisins and 
currants, dredged with flour, y^. lb chopped citron and scant 3 
cups flour mixed with y^. teasp each ginger and cinnamon and 

1 grated nutmeg. Steam 21/^ hours and serve with lemon 
sauce or any other preferred sauce. — [Miss E. W., Wash. 

Plum Pudding (No Eggs) 

To 1 cup bread crumbs add 1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup seeded and chopped raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, 

2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp each soda, salt and cinnamon, 
and y^ teasp cloves. Boil 3 hours in a 2-qt kettle, set into a 
larger kettle of boiling water, or steam about same length of 
time. Serve with a sauce made of 1 cup white sugar, butter 
the size of an o^zz, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, and the 
white of 1 Q^^. Rub all to a cream and add a little boiling 
water. — [Miss L. G., Minn. 

Baked Fresh Plum Pudding 

To 1 cup sour milk add y^ teasp soda, 1 level teasp salt, 2 
heaping tablesp lard, melted, and flour enough to make a bis- 
cuit dough. Roll out thin and spread evenly with cooked fresh 
plums from which the juice has been drained and the stones 
removed. Roll up, pinch the ends together securely, place in 
a roasting pan, sprinkle with 1 cup sugar, dot with pieces of 
butter, and pour over all the juice of the plums, adding enough 
boiling water to almost cover the roll. Bake about y^ hour 
and serve warm in its own sauce. Use a baking pan no larger 
than necessary to hold the roll, as otherwise it will require 
too much sauce. Any other tart fruit can be substituted for 
plums.- — [Mrs. M. R., Ida. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding 

To \y2. cups bread crumbs soaked in sweet milk until soft, 
add 3 cups cooked and pitted prunes, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 
cup chopped apples, scant y^ cup chopped citron, ^ cup 
chopped figs, % cup molasses, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 cup 
milk, 11/4 teasp baking powder and a little salt sifted with 2 
cups flour. Steam about 4 hours. This pudding will keep well 
and portions of it can be re-steamed when wanted. Serve with 
any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. G. McM., Cal. 



113 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



BoUed Tapioca Pudding 

Soak 1 cup tapioca over night in a quart bowl nearly filled 
with water. Next morning put this into a double boiler and 
cook until clear, stirring occasionally. When clear add 1 cup 
sugar, a small piece butter, and the beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Pour into a dish, and when cool serve with cream. Another 
way is to use the yolks of the eggs in the pudding, instead of 
the whites, beating the latter to a froth, adding some pow- 
dered sugar, and spreading the meringue over the top of the 
pudding. Place in a hot oven for a few minutes to brown. — 
[Mrs. C. S., Kan. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Soak 1 cup tapioca in 1^/^ pts milk about 3 or 4 hours and 
then heat it until it becomes transparent, and add a pinch of 
salt. Pare and cut the cores from 6 good sized apples, arrange 
these in a well buttered baking dish, fill the holes in the apples 
with sugar, add any preferred spice and little bits of butter, 
pour in 1 cup water, and bake until the apples are soft. When 
done pour the tapioca prepared as above over the apples in the 
pudding dish and return to the oven about % hour. Serve 
with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Rhubarb and Prune Tapioca Pudding 

Remove the stones from 2 doz cooked prunes, and add i^ 
cup of the liquid in which the prunes were cooked, % cup 
sugar, and 1 pt chopped raw rhubarb. Boil 10 minutes, then 
add % cup tapioca which has been soaked for 1 hour in 1 cup 
cold water. Cook until tapioca is clear, and serve either hot 
or cold, with cream and powdered sugar. — [N. P., N. H. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 

To 2 tablesp Indian Meal add 1 tablesp each cocoanut and 
tapioca, i/^ cup molasses, i,4 cup sugar, butter size of a wal- 
nut, a little salt and 1 qt scalding hot mOk. Bake 2 hours 
In a slow oven. Serve with cream. — [F. L. R., Ct. 

Steamed Indian Pudding (No Eggs) 

Heat 1 qt skim milk, stir in ^/^ cup cornmeal and cook until 
it thickens. Remove from fire, stir in V2 cup sugar, V2 cup 
raisins, 1 teasp vinegar, i^ teasp cinnamon and 1 level teasp 
salt. Let cool and then steam about 6 hours. Cooling before 
steaming makes this pudding "jell." Serve with cream. — 
[Mrs. J. I. M., N. H. 



RICE AND INDIAN PUDDINGS 119* 

Indian Fruit Pudding 

Put 1 heaping cup Indian meal in a mixing bowl, stir in 1 
cup molasses and 1 level teasp salt. Scald 3 pts milk and pour 
it boiling hot over the meal, stirring it to a smooth batter. 
Butter a deep pudding dish, cover the bottom with stoned 
chopped primes, pour the batter over them and just before the 
pudding is placed in the oven pour carefully over the top 1 
cup cold sweet milk, but do not stir it in. Bake about 4 or 5 
hours. Serve with cream. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Apple Cornmeal Pudding 

Boil 1 cup cornmeal in salted water until it thickens. Pare, 
quarter and core sour apples, mix these with the thickened 
meal, and steam in a covered dish about 4 hours. The more 
apples you put in the pudding the better it will be. This is fine 
to serve with roast pork, and is said to prevent the harmful 
effects upon the stomach, usually attributed to roast pork. 
This recipe has been handed down in our family for more than 
100 years. — [J. E. B., Mass. 

Graham Pudding 

Sift together 2 cups graham flour, 1 teasp each soaa and 
cinnamon, and ^/^ teasp each salt and cloves. Pour over this 1 
cup milk and Y^ cup molasses. Beat well, then add 1 cup 
seeded raisins well dredged with flour, and pour this mixture 
into well greased cans, allowing space for swelling. Cover 
closely and steam for 2 to 4 hours, according to size of molds. 
Serve warm with a golden sauce made of scant Vz cup butter 
creamed with 1 cup powdered sugar, 3 tablesp cream added 
slowly, ^2 teasp vanilla, and 1 well-beaten e^^. Heat over a 
kettle of hot water, stirring frequently, and serve hot with 
the warm pudding. — [E. T., Va. 

Boiled Rice Pudding 

Wash and drain 2 small cups rice and cook with plenty 
water in a double boiler. When done the water should be all 
absorbed and the grains very large. Add a mixture made of 3 
well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, a little salt and 
grated nutmeg. Stir well and boil till thick — about 5 minutes. 
— [Mrs. J. J. M., 111. 

Eggless Rice Pudding 

Wash % cup rice, drain, add 1 cup sugar, small piece butter, 
a little nutmeg and 2 qts fresh milk. Bake in moderate oven 
about 2 hours. Raisins can be added if liked. Stir up from 
bottom of dish often until rice is cooked. This is good served 
hot, but we prefer it cold. — [Mrs. S. C. S., N. Y. 



120 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Tapioca and Rice Pudding 

Soak y2 cup tapioca in 1 cup water, and in another vessel 
soak V2 cup rice In 2 cups water. Let stand over night and 
next morning combine them and add 4 cups milk, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, salt and sugar to taste, and a little lemon flavor. — [Miss 
B. C. B., O. 

Lemon Rice Pudding 

Stir into 1 cup boiling rice the grated rind of 1 lemon. 6 
tablesp sugar, the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 pt milk and a little 
salt. Bake about 1 hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, add 1 scant cup confectioner's sugar and the juice 
of 1 lemon. When the pudding is done spread this meringue 
over it, and return to the oven a few minutes to lightly brown. 
— [F, S. T., Ct. 

Sago Pudding 

Put 3 pts rich milk in a double boiler, add 1 cup sago and 
let cook till clear. Remove from fire, add beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, V2 cup sugar, and flavor with lemon or vanilla, or a little 
of both. Pour into a well buttered baking dish and bake 
about % hour. When done cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and a little powdered sugar, and return to the 
oven a few minutes to brown. — [Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 

Rhubarb Sago Pudding 

Cook slowly "V^ cup sago and 1 qt water until clear, then 
add 1 scant cup sliced rhubarb, pinch salt, V2 cup sugar and 
small piece ginger root. Turn into buttered baking dish and 
bake about 1 hour in moderate oven. If the mixture seems too 
thick, add a little water. Serve hot with cream and sugar. — 
[Unidentified. 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Heat 1 qt sweet milk and add to it 3 rounding tablesp corn- 
starch mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Stir well, then 
add 5 tablesp sugar and a little salt. Cook about 5 minutes, 
and then add 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs and 1 teasp butter. Bake 
in a well buttered pudding dish and serve cold with cream. — • 
£Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Oatmeal Pudding 

Soak 1 cup oatmeal over night in 1 qt milk; in the morning I 

add 1 well-beaten egg, % cup seeded raisins, nutmeg and salt to ! 

taste and 4 tablesp sugar. Bake about 1 hour. This is nice i 

for invalids and people with poor digestion. — [Mrs. L. A. G., I 

-Mass. I 



BREAD AND COTTAGE PUDDINGS 121 



Plain Bread Pudding 

Butter well small pieces of stale bread, arrange them in a 
well buttered pudding dish, sprinkle with a little nutmeg and 
cinnamon, cover well with sweetened milk, and bake. — [R. W.,. 
Mo. 

Boiled Bread Pudding 

To 1 cup fine bread crumbs add 1 pt milk, beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, 2 tablesp sugar, piece butter size of small egg and any- 
preferred flavoring. Place in a double boiler and cook until 
done, stirring occasionally. When done turn out into a pud- 
ding dish, squeeze the juice of 1 lemon over the top, place bits 
of jelly over the top and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs 
with powdered sugar. We think this much better than baked 
pudding. — [Mrs. M. A. B., Mich. 

Raised Bread Pudding 

Roll out some light bread dough about % inch thick, cover 
with finely sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and a little cinna- 
mon, dot with pieces of butter, wet the edges of the dough 
with a little milk, then roll up lightly and pinch the edges 
securely together. Let stand about y-2. hour and then steam 
until done. Serve with sweetened cream. — [Mrs. D. J. W.. 
Mich. 

Graham Bread Pudding 

A delicious pudding can be made from graham bread crusts 
by soaking them in milk, adding eggs and sugar to taste, and a 
little vanilla flavor. If you happen to have a little cocoa left 
from breakfast this can also be added to the pudding. — [Mrs. 
B. B. M., Kan. 

Caramel Pudding 

Brown % cup granulated sugar in a pie tin set on top of the 
stove. Stir constantly and be sure it is well browned. Then 
stir this browned sugar into 1 qt scalding milk, add pinch salt, 
stir well, and when cool add 4 well-beaten eggs, saving out the 
whites of 2. Pour into a buttered pudding dish and bake until 
well set. When done cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of the 2 eggs and some powdered sugar, and return to 
the oven a few minutes to brown. Instead of the egg meringue 
I sometimes serve this pudding with whipped and sweetened 
cream on top. — [Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 



122 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cottage Pudding 

Cream V2 cup sugar and 1 tablesp butter, add 1 well-beaten 
■egg, V2 cup milk and 1 scant cup flour sifted with 1 teasp bak- 
ing powder and a little salt. Bake in a moderate oven, and 
serve hot or cold with any preferred sauce. — [K. A. D., N. D. 

Rhubarb Cottage Pudding 

Mix 1 pt flour with 1 teasp baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, and add milk enough to make a stiff batter. Into but- 
tered custard cups put 1 spoonful batter, then 1 spoonful pre- 
pared rhubarb sauce, and top off with another spoonful batter. 
Steam V2 hour, and serve hot with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. 
J. W. M., Pa. 

Baked Chocolate Pudding 

To 1 cup bread crumbs add 1 qt hot milk, 1 oz grated choc- 
olate, V2 cup sugar, 1 well-beaten egg, 1 teasp vanilla and a 
little salt. Soak the bread crumbs in part of the hot milk and 
beat until smooth, then add the rest of the milk and the other 
ingredients, and bake until firm, in a slow oven. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. — [B. M. R., Ct. 

Cracker Pudding 

To about 4 plain soda or butter crackers rolled fine add 1 qt 
milk, y2 cup sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs and a pinch of salt. 
Bake in a well buttered pudding dish, and when done spread 
over the top the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with % cup 
powdered sugar and flavored with any preferred flavoring. 
Return to the oven a few minutes to brown. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Biscuit Pudding 

Pour enough boiling water on 4 or 5 stale biscuits to cover, 
and set on the back of the stove to soften. When soft mash 
free from lumps, and stir in a mixture made of 1 cup sugar 
creamed with % cup butter, and beaten-yolks of 3 eggs. Flavor 
with any preferred flavoring. Bake about 15 or 2 minutes. 
When done put over the top some plum or any other jelly, and 
cover with a meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs 
and V2 cup powdered sugar. Return to the oven a few minutes 
to brown. jMay be served hot or cold. — [Mrs. L. J. A., Ala. 

Raw Potato Pudding 

Grate 2 large raw potatoes, add 1 lb finely chopped suet, l^/^ 
qts buttermilk or water, 1 cup sugar, % cup molasses, a little 
salt and flour enough to make a stiff batter. I put this batter 



POTATO AND PUMPKIN PUDDINGS 123 



away in a cool place and use as wanted during the winter. 
When wanted take a portion of this batter, add V2 teasp soda, 
or less, dissolved in a little hot water, salt, raisins or currants, 
and spices to suit taste. Steam about 1 hour. Serve with any 
preferred sauce. This is a favorite pudding in our family. — 
[Mrs. E. J. D., N. Y. 

Sweet Potato Pudding I 

To 1 pt grated raw sweet potatoes add 1 cup sugar, 3 or 4 
well-beaten eggs, 1% cups milk, pinch salt and spice to suit. 
Beat well and turn into a pudding dish in which 2 tablesp but- 
ter has been melted. Bake in a slow oven about 1 hour. Serve 
plain, or with cream or any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. P. H., Tex. 

Sweet Potato Pudding II 

Mash fine about 4 medium large, baked sweet potatoes. 
"While hot add 3 well-beaten eggs, l^^ cups sugar, 2 tablesp 
butter, 2 tablesp flour, 1 cup milk and a little nutmeg or any 
flavor to suit. This pudding is nice with a meringue, and if 
this is wanted, leave out the whites of the eggs, whip to a 
stiff froth with a little powdered sugar, and spread over the 
pudding when it is done, and return it to the oven a few min- 
utes to brown lightly. — [Mrs. W. V. P., Fla. 

Pumpkin Pudding 

Pare the pumpkin, remove pulp and seeds, cut into small 
pieces and cook until soft. Mash, and to each cup mashed 
pumpkin measured without the juice, add 1 tablesp flour, 1 
beaten egg, Vz cup sugar, 1 teasp ginger, some salt and sweet 
milk enough to m.ake 1 qt batter. Other spices and butter can 
be added, if liked. Bake in a moderate oven 3 hours. — [Mrs. 
T. v.. Wis. 

Baked Carrot Pudding 

To 1 cup grated, raw carrots, add 1 cup finely chopped suet, 
1 cup flour. 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp soda dissolved in 1 tablesp 
milk, Vz teasp cloves, Vz teasp salt, 1 teasp cinnamon and 1 
well-beaten egg. Sift the spices with the flour, and lastly add 
1 cup currants dredged with flour. Bake about 3 hours. 
Serve warm with or without sauce. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass. 

Marshniallow Snow Pudding 

Soak 1 tablesp clear gelatine in V2 cup cold water to soften. 
Let this stand a while, and then add Vz cup boiling water. 



124 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



While this is cooling beat up the whites of 3 eggs and add 1 
small cup powdered sugar. Next with the egg beater beat up- 
the cold gelatine mixture until it froths and stiffens like egg. 
whites, after which beat in the stiff egg whites, and flavor with 
vanilla. It will t'^ke 10 or 15 minutes of vigorous beating ta 
froth the gelatine mixture, and can only be done in cool 
weather. Set away in a cold place until ready to serve. This, 
is a delicious pudding and safe for invalids and children.— - 
[A. G., Mass. 

Corn Pudding 

With a sharp knife score through the center of each row of 
kernels of 10 good roasting ears of corn, and with the back of 
a silver knife scrape off the grains. This method will leave the 
husks on the cob. Into the corn mix 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 
2 cups sugar, 2 cups milk, butter the size of an egg, 2 tablesp 
cornstarch or flour, some salt, and lemon or vanilla flavor. 
Bake, and during the first V2 hour or hour stir it frequently 
and carefully, then smooth off with the back of a spoon, and let 
it bake until done and a nice brown on top. — [Mrs. E. B. C, 
N. C. 

Vegetable Pudding 

This pudding is equal to the richest plum pudding, and 
comes in season just when the hens are not laying — or, if they 
are laying, the eggs can be sold to advantage. Put through 
the food chopper 1 lb boiled carrots, 1 lb suet, 1 lb stale bread 
and to this add 1 lb seeded raisins cut in halves, 1 lb currants, 
% lb citron, V2 lb lemon peel cut fine, 1 lb sugar, 1 teasp mixed 
spices to taste, 1 large cup syrup and small i/^ cup apple or 
grape juice or the juice from canned or sweet pickled fruit, 
then gradually add 3 large cups flour and mix very thoroughly. 
This will make a large pudding which will require about 48 
hours boiling, but if preferred, the mixture can be divided into 
small, well buttered bowls, and boiled about 12 hours. Use ^^ 
the above given quantities if a smaller pudding is desired. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. — [P. B.. X. Y. 

Tomato Pudding 

Slice some peeled ripe tomatoes into a well buttered pudding 
dish, and sprinkle with salt. Add a few cold biscuits broken 
fine, 1 qt sweet milk, 2 well-beaten eggs and IVz cups sugar. 
The milk, eggs and sugar should be heated together and poured 
over the tomatoes and biscuits. Bake. — [Mrs. H. M.. F., N. C. 



PUFF PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS 125 



Puff Pudding 

Stir 9 tablesp flour into 1 pt boiling milk. Let this boil up, 
stirring to prevent it from getting lumpy, then remove from 
fire, and add 3 well-beaten eggs and pinch salt. Bake in a 
^uick oven about ^/^ hour. Serve warm with cream and sugar. 
— [J. E. B., Mass. 

Nut Pudding (Rich) 

To 1 cup chopped nut meats add 1 cup chopped and pitted 
dates, 1 cup sugar, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk, butter size of wal* 
nut, 1 scant teasp baking powder and 1 cup bread crumbs. 
Bake about Vz hour. — [Mrs. H. M. C, Ind. 

Graham Nut Pudding 

To 2 cups graham flour add Vz teasp salt, 2 level teasp bak- 
ing powder, 1 cup milk in which dissolve small % teasp soda, 
% cup molasses, 1 cup seeded raisins cut fine, Vz cup walnut 
meats cut fine, or blanched almonds, cut fine. Mix thoroughly 
and steam about 3 hours. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Plain Raisin Custard 

To 1 qt milk add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablesp cornstarch, 5 
tablesp sugar and Vz cup seeded raisins. If liked mix in a lit- 
tle spice. Bake until the custard is set. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Cocoanut Custard 

To Vz cup rolled cracker crumbs add 1 cup grated cocoanut, 
1 small cup sugar, the beaten white of 1 ^zz, and the yolks of 
3 eggs. Bake about % hour and when done cover with a 
meringue made from the beaten whites of 2 eggs and a little 
sugar, flavored to taste. Return to the oven a few minutes to 
brown. — [H. L. N., Mass. 

Cream Custard 

To 1 pt sweet cream add Vz lb sugar, beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 
beaten whites of 3 eggs and a little grated nutmeg and salt. 
Pour into a well buttered deep pie plate which has been sprin- 
kled with bread or cake crumbs, about as thick as an ordinary 
pie crust, and also cover the top of the pudding with a dress- 
ing of crumbs. Bake until set. Custard should be baked just 
long enough to have it set. If baked too long it will become 
watery. — [B. B., Pa. 



12 6 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Cheap Sauce 

Mix 1 teasp flour with % cup sugar, and stir this into a 
smooth paste with a little cold milk, then pour on boiling milk 
till it is thick enough. Let it boil a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Flavor to taste. — [M. E. A., O. 

Butter Sauce 

To V2 cup butter add Vz cup sugar and 2 cups water. Let 
this come to a boil, then stir in 2 teasp flour moistened with a 
little cold water. Let boil a few minutes longer, or until it 
thickens, then remove from fire, and flavor with vanilla. — 
[Miss G. L. H., W. Va. 

Hard Sauce 

Cream 1 cup sugar with a liberal % cup butter; then add 
gradually i/4 teasp lemon extract and % teasp vanilla extract. 
Serve cold with warm pudding. — [Mrs. C. J. H., Vt. 

Uncooked Sweet Sauces 

Wash berries, drain and add sugar to the fruit. Mix well 
together and let stand for 1 hour. Currants should be 
stemmed and washed, next lightly crushed (not mashed) with 
a potato masher, then mixed with a liberal amount of sugar, 
and let stand a while. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Maple Sugar Sauces 

Boil 1/4 lb maple sugar with % cup water until it threads, 
then pour into the stiffly whipped whites of 2 eggs, beating 
vigorously all the while, and next add i/^ cup sweet cream and 
1 teasp lemon juice. Another plain sauce is made by grating 
% lb maple sugar into ^2 cup sweet milk or cream, boiling it 
for a few minutes, and stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Still another sauce is made by cooking in a double boiler about 
20 minutes, 2 cups grated maple sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs, 
juice of 2 lemons, and 1 scant tablesp butter. — [Mrs. J. C. H., 
Vt. 

English Plum Pudding Sauce 

To 1 cup sugar add 1 tablesp butter and 1 tablesp corn- 
starch moistened with a little cold water. Then pour over 1 
pt boiling water, stirring all the time, and let boil until corn- 
starch is done. Then remove from fire and flavor to taste — - 
% lemon and V2 vanilla extract is nice, and a pinch of salt. — 
[Mrs. R. C, Ida. 



CRANBERRY, APPLE AND GRAPE SAUCES 127 



Stewed Whole Cranberries 

Use only the best ripe berries, discarding all the soft and 
inferior ones, which may be used for marmalade or strained 
sauce. Wash the berries, and then put them into a double 
boiler. In a separate vessel cook together for 10 minutes one- 
half as much sugar as you have berries, and half as much 
water as sugar. Then pour this boiling syrup over the berries 
in the double boiler, and place the latter over a hot fire, and 
cook until the berries are done. This will take about 1 hour. 
Do not stir the berries, but from time to time press them down 
under the syrup, so that all may be equally cooked. Be care- 
ful that the water does not get too low in the outside boiler. 
Cooked in this manner the skins do not separate from the 
pulp, and the cranberries appear more like stewed cherries. — 
[N. M. P., N. H. 

Cranberry and Apple Sauce 

To the desired amount of cranberries add one-half as much 
peeled apples, cored and quartered, and stew together until 
tender. Then remove from fire and let stand until nearly 
cold before adding sugar to taste. It will not require nearly 
as much sweetening as when hot, and the apples impart a 
pleasant flavor, and also help to save sugar. If this sauce is 
rubbed through a sieve to remove the skins of the cranberries, 
it will be found to be a very pleasing as well as economical 
sauce to serve with meats of any kind. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Cranberry Sauce (Jelly) 

Add 1 cup water to 1 qt cranberries and cook 10 to 15 
minutes, then add 2 heaping cups sugar and cook 10 to 15 
minutes longer. Rub through a sieve and pour into a mold 
wet in cold water. When ready to serve turn out on a platter. 
— [B. H. K., Me. 

Thin Cranberry Sauce 

Boil together 1 qt cranberries and 2 qts water, and when 
done add Vz cup sugar, and 1 tablesp flour or cornstarch 
moistened v/ith a little cold water. Cook 10 minutes longer 
and then rub through a sieve. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Grape Sauce 

To 1 cup stewed grapes, seeds and skins removed, add 1^4 
cups sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs and 3 cups boiling hot water. 
Thicken a little with cornstarch and before removing from 
fire add lump butter about size of an egg, and 1 teasp vanilla 
flavor. — [Mrs. A. W. T., Mich. 



128 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash the rhubarb (about 1 lb of it, if your family is small, 
for like apple sauce, it is better not to let it stand for any 
length of time), trim the tops, but do not peel as the red 
skins impart a fine flavor and color. Cut it up into pieces and 
to 3 cups rhubarb add 2 cups sugar but no water. Place on 
the back of the range until the sugar melts gradually and then 
cook slowly without stirring, until done. In this way the pieces 
will remain nice and whole. — [Mrs. C. C, N. Y. 

Strawberry Sauce 

Cream 1 cup sugar and V2 cup butter, and then add 1^ pt 
crushed strawberries, mixing all well together. Another way 
is to put 1 qt strawberries over the fire with 1 1/^ cups sugar and 
2 tablesp butter. Stir constantly as it burns easily. — [M. W., 
S. C. 

Boiled Cider Sauce 

Cream % cup butter and 1 cup sugar, then stir in % cup 
boiled cider, a little at a time, and just before serving set 
the bowl containing this mixture in a kettle of hot water, but 
do not boil. — [Mrs. P. A. D., Ill* 

Plain Apple Sauce 

Pare, core and quarter 8 or 10 medium sized tart apples. 
Put them in a granite or porcelain lined vessel, add about 
2 cups water, and cook until tender. Then add 1 cup sugar 
and cook 10 minutes longer, stirring occasionally to prevent 
scorching. Press through a colander, add a dash of cinnamon, 
and if served hot, add 1 tablesp butter. A few thin shavings 
of lemon peel may be cooked with the apples. — [Mrs. A. C, 
W. Va. 

Boiled Cider Apple Sauce 

Pare, core and quarter 1 lb of "sweets," if you have them. 
If not, use any good sweet apples. I do not weigh or measure 
for this sauce, but pour over the apples the boiled cider 
reduced with a little water until it has a mild and pleasant 
flavor. Add sugar to taste and cook very slowly until apples 
can be pierced with a splint. Put up in cans or jars. It will 
keep nicely even if not sealed air tight. — [Mrs. G. G., N. Y. 




PRIDE OF THE GARDEN. 




STRAWBERRIES OF A NO. 1 QUALITY, j^ 




CHOICE CONCORD GRAPES FROM ILLINOIS. 



PUDDING BAKING HINTS 129 

Cottage pudding is nice served with flavored and sweetened i 
wJiipped cream. — [Mrs. J. K., N. Y. j 

1 
The addition of 2 or 3 tablesp of cocoanut to a bread pud- i 
ding is a great improvement. — [E. T., Va. 

A nice dark sauce for cottage pudding is made by adding to ! 
the sauce a little cocoa or chocolate. — [E. L., Neb. i 

Bake cottage pudding in square shallow pans, and serve ^~ 
while warm with any preferred sauce. — [Mrs. L. S., O. : 

Instead of grating potatoes for puddings I put them through ! 
the food cutter with the fine cutter on. — [E. A. R., Mass. 

Delicious pudding can be made by following the recipes i 
which come with your favorite cereal or breakfast food. — j 
[A. G., Mass. I 

When strawberries are in season I add some of these ' 
mashed to the liquid sauce that I serve with cottage pudding. 
— [Mrs K. R., Ore. { 

I always place a steamed pudding in a hot oven for a few 
minutes to dry off a little. Try it and see how you like it. — 
[Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 

By adding some grated chocolate or cocoa to any favorite 
recipe for cornstarch pudding a nice chocolate pudding is 
obtained. — [A. G., Mass. 

Rice pudding if baked just right ought to be creamy, but if 
it is baked too long it will whey off, and will not be as satis- 
factory. — [Mrs. L. H. C, Ct. 

I sometimes add 1 cup stewed prunes chopped fine to my 
favorite chocolate cornstarch pudding, and find it is very nice 
for a change. — [Mrs. F. E. P., Wash. 

When making suet or plum pudding try using hot black cof- 
fee in place of milk, buttermilk or water. Re-steam left-over 
pudding as wanted. — [Mrs. O. W. S., Wis. 



Long boiling improves Indian pudding. I sometimes add to 
the plain pudding for the sake of variety 1 cup raisins and Vz 
cup chopped suet. — [Mrs. S. L. H., Mass. 

Green corn pudding should bake slowly, and it is best to 
k:eep the dish covered at first, afterwards removing the cover 
and allowing the pudding to brown lightly. — [M. B., 111. 



130 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Baked Indian pudding should be baked in a slow oven and 
may be served hot or cold. I serve it with a sauce made of 
syrup and butter heated together. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

When making a corn pudding I always beat the whites of 
the eggs and fold them in last. I cover the top of the pudding 
with cracker crumbs and dot with bits of butter. — [E. S., Pa. 

When making fruit or suet pudding I always dredge the fruit 
and suet thoroughly with flour, and put them in the mixture 
last. Treated in this way they will not settle to the bottom. — 
£Mrs. L. D., Ore. 

lapioca pudding is good baked with any kind of fruit, or 
canned fruit or berries. Place the prepared tapioca and fruit 
in pudding dish in alternate layers, sweeten, and bake until 
done. — [A. G., Mass. 

The suet used for pudding or cake should always be nice 
and fresh. Kidney suet is best, being dry and crumby. Care- 
fully remove skin and fibre and chop very fine. Keep as cold 
as possible. — [A. G., Mass. 

When making bread pudding it is a saving of time and labor 
to run the bread through a meat chopper. The bread should 
be crisp. If it is not it can be made crisp by placing in a 
warm oven a few minutes and then cooling. — [A. G., Mass. 

When I make suet or plum pudding I divide the dough tu 
half and steam in two pans, serving one pan of pudding while 
hot, with a cold sauce, and reheating the other after a day 
or two, or when needed, serving with a hot sauce. — [A. B., Me. 

Various flavors may be added to apple sauce by sometimes 
adding a little of either fresh or canned blackberries, or 
raspberries, and when the apples are very insipid, try adding 
a little lemon or orange peel, a few whole cloves, or a few 
raisins. — [F. L. B. R., Ct. 

Lard or cottolene cans make good molds for steamed pud- 
ding. Butter the molds well, fill no more than two-thirds 
full, so as to allow space to swell, and cover the can closely. 
If the cover fits too closely, place a piec© of cheese cloth over 
the can, allowing the edges to extend a little over the sides, and 
then put on the cover, which will insure a tight fit. Place the 
mold in a larger kettle of boiling water and keep the water 
boiling rigorously all the time. If it stops boiling the pudding 
is apt to become heavy. Have boiling water enough in the ket- 
tle to almost come up to the top of the mold, and cover the 
iettle securely. — [A. G., Mass. 




Soups, Stews and Qhowders 

ECIPES for soups and stews vary so much 
in small details that it may safely be said 
that no two cooks make any soup or stew 
alike. Nevertheless, there are some funda- 
mental rules that cover this culinary branch, 
as well as all others. The following recipes 
present a nice variety, and any of them may be slightly 
altered to suit individual tastes. Good, palatable and 
nourishing soups and stews are as inexpensive as they are 
easy to prepare, and should be served frequently, especially 
during cold weather. When properly prepared they will 
not be refused by anyone blessed with normal tastes and 
hearty appetite. To say that your family does not like 
soup is to confess that you are not quite "up" to making 
soup as palatable as it might be, and this is a lack which 
the following recipes will help anyone to overcome. 

Vegetable Soup I 

To 3 pts water add 3 large fresh tomatoes or an equal 
amount of canned tomatoes, 1 large potato, peeled and sliced, 1 
small carrot, peeled and cut very fine, a few tender cabbage 
leaves chopped fine, 2 small onions cut fine, salt to taste, 1 
heaping tablesp drippings or butter, and V2 teasp mixed celery 
and coriander seeds, with 1 bay leaf and 1 small pod red pep- 
per. One or 2 stalks of celery may be added, if liked. Boil 
until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, adding a little boil- 
ing water occasionally, if necessary. — [Mrs. A. B. C, Tex. 

Vegetable Soup 11 

Put about Vz or % cup of left-over meat gravy or fryings 
together with a little left-over meat, if you have it, in a soup 
kettle with % doz onions, cut fine and browned in a little drip- 
pings, and add 2 qts water, 1 cup tomatoes, salt to taste, ^' 
small, tender cabbage, 2 small carrots, 1 rutabaga, 1 parsnip, 
and 3 potatoes, all cut fine. Let boil gently about 1^ hours, 
adding a little more boiling water, if needed. Dumplings or 
noodles can be boiled in this soup 20 minutes before serving,. 
or the soup can be slightly thickened with a little flour, stirred 
smooth in a little cold water. — [Mrs. W. J., Wis. 

131 



132 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Vegetable Soup III 

Put on a shank soup bone of about 2 lbs in cold water enough 
to cover, and boil until all marrow and juice are extracted. 
Then remove meat and strain the broth through a wire sieve, 
adding hot water to it to make about 3 qts. Return broth to 
the fire and add 1 onion, 1 carrot, 2 potatoes, 2 tomatoes, a 
few crisp tender leaves of cabbage, all chopped fine, 2 tablesp 
rice, .half teasp celery seed, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
until all the ingredients are thoroughly done. — [E. W., Wash. 

Tomato Soup I 

To 1 qt fresh or canned tomatoes add 1 pt boiling water, and 
when the tomatoes are soft, strain through a colander, return 
to the fire and thicken with a little white flour or graham flour. 
When the soup has boiled up thoroughly, season with salt to 
taste, then put in 1 level teasp soda, and while it is foaming, 
pour in 1 qt hot milk. Add a generous lump of butter, and 
serve hot with oyster crackers. Do not let the soup boil after 
the milk has been added. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 

Tomato Soup II 

To 2 qts water add 2 medium sized potatoes, peeled and sliced 
or cut in small cubes, 1 onion, chopped fine, 1 cup tomato 
juice, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, mixed with 1 
tablesp flour. Cook until tender. Do not add the butter and 
flour until about 15 minutes before removing from the fire. — 
£Mrs. L. W., Ind. 

Tomato Soup III 

To 2 large potatoes, peeled and sliced, add 3 onions and 6 
tomatoes, peeled and sliced. Boil all together in about 3 
pts water, until the potatoes are soft, then mash all through 
a sieve and add 1 qt hot milk, butter the size of an egg, and 1 
tablesp flour mixed to a thin paste with a little cold water. 
Season with pepper and salt and let boil until the flour is thor- 
oughly cooked. — [E. M. R., Cal. 

Cream of Potato Soup 

For each qt soup required, allow 3 medium sized potatoes, 
peeled and cut in slices, and cooked in sufiicient water to 
cover. When tender, rub through a colander, then return to 
the fire and add 3 cups hot milk, a lump of butter, and salt to 
taste. When the soup has come to a boil, add 1 tablesp flour 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and boil a few minutes 
longer, and serve. A slice of onion or a stalk of celery may be 
simmered in the soup for a few minutes to flavor it, if liked, 
and then removed. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 



POTATO AND BEAN SOUPS 133 



Potato and Celery Soup • 

Boil 3 potatoes until soft, mash, then add I pt hot milk and 1 \ 

stalk celery trimmed and cut fine, 1 teasp chopped onions, half * 

tablesp flour blended with 1 tablesp butter and salt to taste.. ■ 

Let boil until the onion and celery are done. — [Mrs. C. E. G.,, I 

Ariz. i 

Potato and Onion Soup i 

To 3 medium sized potatoes, peeled and sliced, add 3 small ■ 
onions, sliced, y2 cup rice and 3 pts water. When done strain 

through a colander, add a lump of butter, and salt and pepper ■ 

to taste, and serve with crisp crackers. — [B. O., Kan. i 

■ i 

Cream of Pea Soup j 

Drain the liquor from 1 qt canned peas, then add to the ; 

peas 2 cups clear, cold water and 1 slice of onion, with salt to ■ 

taste. Cook about 10 minutes, then strain and add 2 cups ! 

scalded milk, thickened with 2 tablesp flour blended with 2 ! 

tablesp butter. — [L. C, Pa. { 

Split Pea Soup 

Boil some beef bones in water in which corned beef or salt i 

pork has been boiled, but be careful that it is not too salty. ; 

When done, drain out the beef bones and add to the broth 1 i 

qt split peas, and let boil until soft, after which mash through ; 

a colander and return to the fire, with 1 onion, 1 small turnip \ 

and 1 carrot, chopped very fine. Boil until done. When i 
serving, drop some croutons in each plate. — [B. B., Pa. 

Bean Soup ! 

In the morning put 1 cup dried beans to soak in cold water ' 

with V2 teasp soda, for 1 hour, then parboil the beans in the j 

same water, and rinse thoroughly in cold water, after which j 

return to the fire with 1 qt clear, cold water and cook slowly j 

until soft, then add 1 or 2 cups tomatoes and cook Vz hour, | 

after which add a little butter and pepper, and salt, and a i 

very little sugar, to taste. — [B. O., Kan. i 

German Bean Soup j 

Boil 2 lbs lean meat from the rump in 2 qts water. Skim j 
when it begins to boil and then let it simmer 2i/^ hours. Add 

1 carrot, 1 onion, 14 small parsnip and a few stalks of celery, I 

chopped very fine, and 3 cloves, 6 allspice, a small piece of red ] 

pepper pod, (tie spices in a cheese cloth bag) and boil 2 hours | 



134 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



longer, seasoning with salt to taste. Soak 2 cups dried beans 
in cold water over night, then pour off the water and boil in 
fresh water 1 hour, then pour off the water again and add 
boiling hot water enough to cook the beans until they are soft, 
but not soft enough to fall to pieces. When soft drain them 
through a colander, add them to the soup prepared as directed 
above, and boil all together Vz hour. — [N. P., N. H. 

Baked Bean Soup 

To 1 1,2 cups cold baked beans, add 4 cups boiling water, 1 
small onion cut fine, and scant ^ teasp celery salt. Cook 
about 20 minutes, then rub through a sieve and add ^ cup 
tomato catsup with salt to taste. Melt and blend 1 tablesp 
butter with one tablesp flour, and stir this into boiling soup. 
;Serve with toasted cubes of bread. — [Mrs. H. A. D., Mass. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Take 1 doz ears tender green corn, slit each row of kernels 
through the middle with a sharp knife, then with the back of 
the knife scrape out the pulp, being careful not to get any of 
the hull with it. Add 1 pt water to the corn and boil about 15 
minutes, then add 1 pt scalded milk with 1 teasp flour mixed 
to a thin paste with a little cold water, and season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Two minutes before serving, add the 
beaten yolks of 1 or 2 eggs. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Green Com Soup 

To clear chicken or beef broth add corn cut from six ears, I 
beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and a little flour mixed with a 
little water. Boil about 5 or 10 minutes. It is best not to add 
the egg until just before serving, as 1 or 2 minutes' boiling is 
suflicient for the egg. — [Mrs. D. M. W., 111. 

Cabbage Soup 

Chop fine ^/^ head tender white cabbage and let boil % hour 
in 1 pt water, by which time the water will be nearly cooked 
away. Drain out the remaining water, then add 1 pt boiling 
milk, l^ cup cream, butter size of an egg, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Serve with crisp crackers. — [Mrs. F. F. R., Vt. 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Put 3 tablesp butter in a frying pan and slice in 6 onions. 
Stir well until they begin to cook, then cover and set on the 
back of the range where they will simmer for V2 hour, being 
careful not to burn. Then add 1 tablesp flour to the onions, stir 



CREAM OP VEGETABLE SOUPS 135 

constantly for about 2 or 3 minutes, and then turn in 1 qt 
scalded milk and boil 15 minutes, after which strain through 
a sieve, return to the fire, add 1 cup cream, salt and pepper to 
taste, and the beaten yolk of 1 egg. Boil 3 minutes longer, and 
serve at once. If you have no cream, use 1 tablesp butter 
instead.— [N. P., N. H. 

Cream of Carrot Soup 

Boil 1 pt of carrots until tender and then rub through a 
sieve. Put 1 tablesp butter in a sauce pan with 1 tablesp flour 
and stir until smooth, then add 1 qt hot chicken broth or milk. 
Let boil 5 minutes, then add the strained carrots, and season 
with pepper and salt. Just before serving, add 1 pt rich milk 
and the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs, with a little chopped pars- 
ley. — [Miss R. F., Ct. 

Asparagus Soup 

Boil a good sized bunch of asparagus, trimmed and cut in 
small pieces in water enough to cover and when tender, mash 
through a sieve. Add to the water in which asparagus was 
cooked, 1 cup milk, a lump of butter and salt to taste. Then 
add the strained asparagus, let all come to a boil, and thicken 
with 1 teasp cornstarch mixed with a little cold water. — [Mrs. 
C. B., Pa. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Trim and cut celery in small pieces and boil in a little salted 
water until tender. Melt 1 tablesp butter in a saucepan, add 2 
tablesp flour, stir until light brown, then pour in slowly, stir- 
ring all the while, milk according to the amount of soup you 
wish to prepare. Boil a few minutes, then add the drained 
celery and serve at once with crisp crackers, or dice of toast. 
Odds and ends of celery can be used up to good advantage in 
this way. — [Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Cream of Rutabaga Soup 

Mash 3 cups of boiled rutabaga, stir in 2 qts hot milk, and 
when boiling add 1 onion cut fine, 1 heaping tablesp butter, 
melted and blended with 1 tablesp flour. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Ham and Vegetable Soup 

After all the good meat has been sliced off the ham, put the 
hone on to boil in plenty of water, and when the meat which 
adheres to it begins to get tender, add 3 or 4 small carrots cut 
fine, Vz head tender cabbage, cut fine, and a few potatoes, 
sliced. Cook until the vegetables are tender. — [Mrs. A. P. 
Neb. 



136 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Beef Soup 

The best cuts for beef soup are from the rump, shoulder or 
plate, the latter being the cheaper grades of the sides and flank. 
Oxtails also make a strong, rich 'soup, and lean meat is better 
than fat meat, greasy soup being unwholesome. Always cook 
a few beef or veal bones with the soup, and a little piece of beef 
liver the size of an egg imparts a delicious flavor, which, how- 
ever, cannot be recognized as liver. Soup requires long and 
slow boiling to extract the juice from the meat. If boiled too 
hard, the meat will be hard and tough and will not yield its 
juices. Put the meat and bone on with cold water, and when 
it comes to a boil, skim carefully and do not add salt until 
after you are through skimming. For 1 lb meat, allow 1 qt 
water, 1 small onion, a small stalk of celery, sprig of parsley, 
and 1 teasp rice may be added, if liked, or 1 small potato. 
Oxtails should be chopped into pieces and boiled 4 or 5 hours. 
If it should become necessary to add water to the soup while 
boiling, add boiling water, as the addition of lukewarm or cold 
water will stop the boiling and spoil the flavor. Be very care- 
ful not to over-salt. Before serving, strain the soup through 
a fine sieve. This soup is nice to serve clear, or to use as a 
foundation stock for other soups. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Beef and Tomato Soap 

Boil a good soup bone in about 1 gal cold water, with salt to 
taste, until the meat is nearly tender. Then add 1 pt tomatoes, 
% cup rice and 1 pt sliced potatoes, with 2 or 3 stalks of celery 
and a small onion, cut fine. — [B. O., Kan. 

Veal Soup 

Boil a veal bone about 3 hours, with potatoes, celery, onions 
and any other vegtable desired, but nothing acid, like toma- 
toes. When the vegetables are tender, strain the soup and let 
it come to a boil, and when ready to serve, add 1 pt milk and 
2 well-beaten eggs. — [A. H. B., Mich. 

Mutton Soup with Tapioca 

Put about 3 lbs mutton with as much bone in 4 qts of water, 
and let simmer at least 5 hours. Then strain and cool, remove 
layer of fat, and return broth to the fire. Add 1 onion, 2 small 
carrots, 1 small turnip and 2 stalks celery, all cut fine, and boil 
until vegetables are very tender. Have ready 4 tablesp tapioca 
soaked in cold water, stir this gradually into the soup, and boil 
10 minutes longer. — [M. W. W., O. 



CHICKEN AND MOCK OYSTER SOUPS 13 7 



Chicken and Bean Soup 

Clean and cut up a nice fat hen, and put on to boil in plenty- 
cold water. Parboil 1 qt white beans, adding ^ teasp soda 
after they have boiled about 5 minutes. Then drain and add the 
beans to the chicken, and boil until both are tender. Season 
to taste. — [Mrs. S. O., N. D. 

Chicken and Rice Soup 

Cut a nice fat chicken in small pieces, cover well with cold 
water and add salt and 1 cup rice. Boil slowly until done, add- 
ing more water as needed. When nearly done, add a few noo- 
dles or dumplings and boil until done. — [Mrs. W. H. L., Ky. 

Giblet Soup 

The head, neck, feet, heart, stomach, lungs and liver of a 
chicken are often thrown away. If properly cleansed and pre- 
pared, they make a nourishing soup. Split the heads, pick off 
all feathers, and lay in salt water. Pour boiling water over the 
feet and pull off the skin. Wash the heart, clean stomach, 
lungs, liver and neck in cold water. For three sets giblets 
allow 3 pts water, and simmer gently 3 hours. When cold it 
will be like jelly. The soup should be salted to taste and fla- 
vored with a few peppercorns. — [I. A. G., N. Y. 

Five Minute Soup 

Cut some stale slices of bread into small dice. Heat some 
butter in a frying pan, and when hot fry the diced bread in this, 
and when nicely browned add hot milk according to the quan- 
tity of bread. Season with pepper and salt and serve as soon 
as it has boiled up once. This soup can be prepared in 5 min- 
utes — hence the name. — [I. A. G., N. Y. 

Salsify or Mock Oyster Soup 

Wash and slice thin, enough salsify to make 1 pt and boil in 
3 pts water 20 minutes, then add 1 qt scalded milk, 2 tablesp 
butter blended with 1 tablesp flour and pepper and salt to 
taste.' Serve with oyster crackers. — [Mrs. W. G. McH,, Kan. 

Rivel Milk Soup 

Put on to boil 1 qt or more of milk, with a little water. Pre- 
pare egg rivels by taking some flour, a pinch of salt and 1 egg, 
and stirring them together until the mass forms into little 
"rivels." Add these to the boiling milk, salt to taste, and let 
boil until the rivels are done. — [Mrs. L. M., O. 



138 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Buttermilk Soup 

Boil 

and when done, pour off the water, mash the potatoes and add 
1 qt buttermilk thickened with 2 tablesp flour. Let boil up, 
then add a lump of butter and serve hot. — [Mrs. L. M., O. 

Fruit Soup 

To Vz gal boiling water add % lb seedless raisins, % lb 
prunes, stones removed, % lb dried apples, 2 tablesp sago, 1 
cup sugar, and the juice of 1 lemon. Cook 1 hour. — [M. W., 
Wis. 



Elderberry Soup with Dumplings 

Boil 2 qts carefully picked and washed elderberries in iVz 
qts water about ^ hour, then run through a sieve and boil 
again with 1 qt sliced apples. Add ^2 lb sugar to every lb ber- 
ries and thicken with 1 tablesp sago to every qt soup. In this 
soup boil dumplings made by the following recipe: Stir 1 
tablesp butter over the fire with 1 cup flour and 1 cup milk, 
until it loosens from the pan. Let cool and then stir in yolks 
of 2 eggs, a pinch of salt and cinnamon, a little grated lemon 
rind, 1 teasp sugar and the beaten white of 1 e^^. Mix well, 
and with a tablesp cut off little dumplings the size of a walBlit 
and boil 10 minutes in the soup. These dumplings can be used 
in any fruit soup. — [Mrs. H. B., la. 

Oatmeal Soup with Currants 

Boil Vz cup steel-cut oatmeal or rolled oats with ^ cup dried 
and cleaned currants in plenty of water until the meal and fruit 
are done, then add piece butter size of a small egg, a few dashes 
of cinnamon, salt to taste, sugar to make it sweet, and just 
hefore serving, Vz cup sweet cream. I sometimes add a few 
cooked, dried apples. — [Mrs. G. A., Minn. 

Peanut Soup 

Melt 1 large tablesp butter in a double boiler, then stir in 
1 teasp flour and 1 pt milk, and when very hot add pounded 
meats of 1 pt peanuts. Cook 15 minutes longer, add pepper 
and salt to taste, and serve hot. — [B. G. S., Me. 

Noodles for Soup 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg, stir thick with 
flour, and when cool, stir in 1 beaten egg, then thicken with 
flour, as stiff as possible. Roll out very thin and cut fine. These 
noodles do not need to dry. They should be boiled in the soup 
about 20 or 25 minutes. — [Mrs. G. N. P., Kan. 



NOODLES AND DUMPLINGS FOR SOUPS 139 

German Noodles 

Beat up 1 egg with 1 tablesp water, add some salt, and then 
work in all the flour possible. Turn out on floured board, roll 
very thin, cut into pieces and roll each piece as thin as a piece 
of paper. Let these pieces dry, but not long enough to become 
brittle. After they have dried, lay the pieces one on top of the 
other, roll up, and with a sharp knife, cut very thin slices from 
this roll. Toss the noodles lightly to separate them, let them 
dry, and store in well-covered tins or jars. — [A. G., Mass. 

Egg Noodles 

To 2 well-beaten eggs add 1 cup sweet milk, a generous pinch 
of salt, and flour enough to make a stiff dough, sifted with 2 
level teasp baking powder. Roll thin like piecrust, and cut in 
strips like shoe strings. These are fine cooked in beef or 
chicken broth. — [Mrs. H. D. K. T., Minn. 

Croutons for Soup 

Trim slices of stale bread, cut into small cubes about y^ inch 
square, and brown in a moderate oven, or fry brown in hot 
butter. Especially nice to serve with chicken broth, bean soup 
or split pea soup. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 

Meat Stew with Dumplings 

Cut about 2 lbs of any kind of fresh meat into small pieces,, 
and cook in 2 qts water with salt to taste. If the meat is very 
lean add 2 slices salt pork fat. After cooking 1 hour, add 4 
potatoes and 2 onions, sliced. When these are tender, add 
dumplings or noodles, and when done, serve at once. — [Mrs. 
S. P., Mass. 

Beef Stew 

Take about 7 or 8 lbs of beef from a low-priced cut — the 
lower part of the leg — and boil in enough water to cover, until 
the meat parts from the bone. Remove the bone, skim off the 
fat, and then add 8 potatoes, 1 small turnip and 4 onions, cut 
fine. When nearly done, add dumplings made from 1 pt flour, 
a little salt, V^ teasp soda, and sour milk enough to make a 
stiff batter that will drop from the spoon. Cook about 12 or 15. 
minutes. — [M. L. Q., Me. 

Beef Liver Stew 

Into a frying pan put a generous tablesp of lard or drippings^ 
and when smoking hot put in about 1 lb beef liver, sliced and 1 
small onion, minced fine, and sprinkle with salt. Let fry until 
brown on both sides, then just cover with boiling water, cover 



140 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



pan, and let boil gently about 5 minutes. Thicken the gravy to 
the proper consistency with a little flour and cold water stirred 
together. Serve with toasted cubes of bread. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Corned Beef Stew with Suet Dumplings 

If the corned beef pieces are thin, they should be rolled up 
and tied with cord. Put the beef on to cook in hot water, and 
boil until tender, then add suet dumplings made as follows: To 
1 % pts flour add 1 teasp baking powder, 1 scant teasp salt, and 
% pt suet, chopped very fine. Stir in enough cold water to 
make a stiff dough. Cut off small balls with a spoon and drop 
into boiling stew and boil about V2 hour. — [Mrs. S. E. B., Ind. 

New England Stew 

Boil slowly 3 lbs corned beef about 2 hours, then add 1 qt 
potatoes peeled, and if large, cut in half, 1 qt turnips, peeled 
and cut to the same size as the potatoes, 1 pt onions, cut in 
halves, or quarters, 1 qt carrots, scraped and cut in medium 
sized pieces, a small head of crisp, tender cabbage, cut in 
eighths, some parsnips, and any other vegetable that is liked, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, and boil until all the veg- 
etables are well done. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Fresh Pork Stew 

Chop 2 onions and fry them a nice brown, then add 2 cloves, 
a very little chopped sage, 1 tablesp vinegar, 1 cup pork roast 
gravy, a little pepper and salt, and the remains of cold roast 
pork, cut into small pieces. Simmer gently % hour. Thicken 
the gravy with 1 teasp flour, blended with a little cold water, 
serve with cubes of toasted bread. — [N. S. C, Cal. 

Salt Pork Stew 

Fry 10 generous slices of salt pork until light brown' on both 
sides, then slice in 4 or 5 onions, and when all are brown, add 2 
qts hot water, 10 or 12 potatoes, peeled and cut in small pieces, 
and 1 small turnip, cut fine. Season to taste with salt and pep- 
per, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. Carrots 
or parsnips may be added if liked. — [Mrs. L. A. G., Me. 

Irish Stew 

Cut into small pieces any kind of fresh meat or chicken (just 
left-overs will do), and put over the fire with a little more 
than enough water to cover, adding salt to taste, a generous 
lump of butter, and a few potatoes cut in small pieces. Cook 
until the potatoes are tender, then add 2 teasp flour, stirred 
smooth with a little milk, for every qt of stew. Boil about 5 
minutes longer. — [Mrs. W. W. P., Okla. 



MEAT STEWS AND CLAM CHOWDER 141 



Picnic Stew 

This is a great southern picnic dish. Two kinds of meat are 
required — salt pork, and either beef or chicken, preferably 
chicken. Always allow half the quantity of salt pork to either 
chicken or beef. To 2 lbs meat add 1 lb pork and 3 qts water, 
and let boil 3 hours, then add 1 qt sliced potatoes, 1 qt butter 
beans, 3 onions, 1 qt tomatoes, 1 qt milk corn cut from the 
cobs, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Boil 
and stir frequently until the meat and vegetables are thor- 
oughly done and the stew is of the consistency of thick cream. 
Serve with crisp soda crackers. For picnics this stew, in more 
generous quantities, is generally made over a gypsy fire in a 
large iron kettle, and the cook begins his preparations 10 or 12 
hours before the stew is to be served. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Mock Clam Chowder 

Put 5 or 6 slices of fat salt pork in a hot sauce pan and try 
them out thoroughly, then remove the crisp pieces of pork and 
add to the tried out fat 5 potatoes and 5 onions, chopped coarse 
with about V2 cup water, and let simmer % hour. Then add 
ll^ cups scalded milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Just 
before serving, drop in the crisp pieces of tried out salt pork, 
and serve with crisp saltine crackers. — [Mrs. C. J., Ct. 

Corn Chowder 

Fry 3 slices salt pork and 2 onions sliced thin, and when 
brown add 2 qts water. When this boils add % doz potatoes, 
peeled and sliced, and 1 qt qan of corn. Let boil about 20 min- 
utes, then add 1 pt scalded sweet milk. Season to taste with 
salt and butter, and serve at once, with crisp crackers. — [B. H. 
K.. Me. 

Potato Chowder 

Fry until crisp 4 or 5 slices of salt pork, then slice in 3 
onions, and when these are fried light brown, add 5 potatoes, 
sliced, with water to cover. Cover and cook till the potatoes 
are done. Just before serving add 1 pt hot milk, and serve 
with crisp crackers. — [Mrs. H. A. D., Mass. 

Egg Chowder 

Fry 2 or 3 slices of salt pork till quite brown, then add 4 or 
5 potatoes, sliced, and hot water to cover. When the potatoes 
are done, add 1 pt hot milk, and slice in 5 hard boiled eggs. 
Let boil up once, add a generous lump of butter, with salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve at once. — [F. L. R., Ct. 



142 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



In making vegetable soup, it is best to parboil any vegetables 
of strong taste, before adding them to the soup. — [A. G., Mass. 

Never pour cold water on beans that have once been heated 
or boiled, as that hardens the shells. — [B. B., Pa. 

Nice soups can be made from left-overs, such as meat gravy, 
potatoes, any vegetables and scraps of meat, by adding water 
and boiling together until well blended. — [A. G., Mass. 

Greasy soup is unpalatable and unwholesome. Before add- 
ing vegetables to the soup, let it get cold. The grease will rise 
to the top and harden, and can then be easily removed. — [A. G., 
Mass. 



[PASTE ADDlTIONAIi RECIPES HERE] 




Pish, Shell^Fish and Grustaceans 

ITCHEN lore has it that fish is good brain 
food. This is probably owing to the fact 
that fish contains all the elements of meat 
in an easily digested form, and is, therefore, 
more easily assimilated by the system and 
consequently especially good for people 
doing brain work or following other sedentary occupations. 
As a matter of fact, good fish properly prepared is always 
wholesome food for old and young, and particularly so in 
spring, after a season of "heavy" eating, as is usual in win- 
ter. The observance of Lent is therefore to be recom- 
mended, even to those who do not consider it a religious 
duty. The following recipes offer a nice variety in the way 
of fish food. 

To Can Fish 

Clean, scrape and wash fish thoroughly in plenty fresh water. 
Cut into pieces of convenient size, but do not remove large 
bones or skin — only fins, head, tail, etc. Have in readiness 
glass fruit jars perfectly clean and dry, with new rubbers 
and covers to fit air tight, put a little salt in the Dottom of the 
jars, dry the pieces of fish with a clean towel, then pack in a 
layer of fish, fill the crevices with salt, put in more fish and 
salt, and so continue until the jar is full, using no water. 
Pack down as solidly as possible. Screw the lids on lightly, 
then put the cans in a boiler the same as for canning fruit 
(see rules for canning), pour in cold water to within an inch 
of the tops of the cans, cover the boiler, bring the water slowly 
to a boil, and let boil steadily 3 or 4 hours. Do not let the 
water stop boiling, and do not let any steam escape. When 
done lift out one can at a time, screw the covers down as 
tightly as possible, and after all the covers are screwed down 
tight, return the cans to the boiler, pour in more boiling water, 
so as to fully cover the cans, then cover the boiler, and set it 
away to get cold. When cold take out each can carefully 
and turn each oue on its head. Leave them standing thus 
about an hour, and if there is no leakage, brush melted paraf- 
fine around the edge of the lids, and set away in a cold, dry 
and dark place. I also can meat this way, removing the bones 

• 143 



144 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and adding spices to suit. Be sure to boil long enougli, and be 
sure the cans are air tight. Last year I canned 70 qt jars of 
beef in two days, and did not lose a can. By simply heating it 
up, I can have fresh meat or fish any time. — [Mrs. A. A.^ 
Wash. 

To Salt and Smoke Fish 

Cut off the heads, tails and fins, but do not scale the fish. 
Split them along the backbone, and scrape them clean inside, 
but do not use water. Pack the fish solidly, using plenty of salt, 
in a good clean keg, or a large glass jar, put a clean cloth on 
top, an inverted plate and a weight, and set away in a cool 
place for 3 or 4 days. Then remove from the brine, wipe each 
piece of fish clean, and pack in another clean keg or jar with 
more salt, and cover and weight as before. The fish should 
always be well under brine. 

To smoke fish first clean them as directed above, pack them 
away in salt, and let them remain there about 4 8 hours, after 
which wipe dry, string 2 halves on a cord, so that they can 
be hung over a stick, and smoke in barrel or box, if you 
have no smoke house (directions how to make a barrel or box 
smoker are printed in the department of recipes for butcher- 
ing time), and smoke about 2 or 3 days. — [Mrs. C. B., Minn. 

To Remove Skin and Bones from Fish 

To remove skin cut off the fins along the back, and then a 
strip of skin less than % inch wide down the full length 
of the back. Dip the fingers in salt, then loosen skin below 
the head and draw it off from one side by pulling gently with 
one hand and pushing with the back of a silver knife held 
in the other hand. To bone a fish begin at the tail on one 
side. Slip the knife in between the skin and the bone and 
carefully cleave the flesh from the bone its entire length. — 
[J. H. 

General Ways of Cooking Fish 

Pish may be boiled, baked, broiled, or fried. Red-blooded 
fish, as salmon, bluefish and mackerel, in which the fat is 
distributed throughout the fish, is better boiled, not fried in 
fat, but white-blooded fish, as cod, haddock, and halibut, in 
which the fat is concentrated in the liver, may be fried or 
baked. Salmon, which contains a large proportion of fat, is 
best cooked in boiling water. When the white-blooded varie- 
ties are cooked in w^ater they should be served with sauces, 
and when baked they should be basted often or they will be 
dry and tasteless. All fish should be thoroughly cooked, but 



HOW TO FRESHEN SALTED PISH 145 



if cooked too long fish loses it flavor. When boiling fish put it 
on in warm water, and add 1 teasp salt and 1 tablesp vinegar 
or lemon juice to each 2 qts water. If the fish were put on 
in cold water the juices would be extracted, and putting it on. 
in boiling water causes the skin to contract and crack. 

Fish, that, when dressed, presents a flat surface, particularly 
those varieties in which oil is distributed throughout the 
flesh, as shad, bluefish and mackerel, are very nice broiled 
over a clear hot fire, but not too hot, or they will become 
hard and indigestible. Before broiling rub well with butter 
or oil. Fish may be baked whole or in large thick slices, and 
white-blooded fish should be basted frequently. Shad, halibut, 
salmon, bluefish, white fish and bass are very nice when baked. 
Baked fish is nice stuffed with any preferred dressing, but 
npt too full. Cut gashes in the upper side of the fish and 
insert strips of salt pork. 

Small fish are most suitable for frying. After cleaning, 
washing and drying, season with salt and pepper, roll in 
flour, then in beaten egg, and then in bread or cracker 
crumbs. See that every part of the fish is well covered with 
the egg and crumbs dressing, which forms a fat-proof cover- 
ing. The fat should be smoking hot and kept hot until the 
fish is done. After removing from the frying pan lay the fish 
on several layers of salted paper, to absorb the fat. — [J. H, 

To Freshen Salted Fish 

Cover the salted fish with plenty fresh, cold water, and put 
it on the back of the range to heat very gradually, and when 
the water is hot, pour it off, put on fresh cold water, and let 
it heat gradually once more. Then pour off the hot water, 
remove the skin and bones from the fish, and flake it with 
the fingers or a fork. Salt fish should never be boiled hard — 
always let it simmer slowly. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Some Codfish Ways 

For boiled codfish select a nice thick piece of salted codfish 
and freshen it according to directions given elsewhere. Cover 
it for the third time with clear, cold water, and let it simmer 
slowly 3 or 4 hours, according to the size and thickness of 
the fish. Serve with butter gravy and baked potatoes. To 
make codfish balls use the freshened and flaked fish, or some 
left-over pieces of boiled fish, and mix with the same quan- 
tity of potatoes — raw potatoes sliced fine if the fish is raw, or 
mashed potatoes if the fish is boiled. If raw, boil until tender, 
then add 1 or 2 well-beaten eggs, a little piece of butter, and 
a very little cream or milk, with flour enough to shape into 
small balls. Fry brown on both sides In deep, hot fat. A 
very nice pudding can be made in the same way, by leaving 
out the flour and adding a little more eggs and milk. — [E. P,, 
Mass. 



146 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Broiled Codfish 

Cut one-inch slices from the thick part of the codfish, and 
soak them in fres'a water to remove the extra salt. Boil until 
half done and then broil over a hot fire. Serve with small 
cubes of salt pork browned to a crisp. Potatoes "boiled in 
their jackets" are nice to serve with this fish dinner. — [F. L. 
R., Ct 

Codfish Loaf 

Flake 2 cups cold, boiled codfish very fine. Prepare an 
equal quantity of highly seasoned mashed potatoes and mix 
well together while both are hot. Fry 1 tablesp minced 
onion in 2 tablesp butter until it yellows, then add 1 teasp 
mustard, a dash of cayenne pepper, and 1 tablesp lemon juice. 
Stir well, then add this sauce by degrees to the fish and potato 
mixture. Pour into a well buttered pudding dish, and bake 
% hour. — [L. J. P., Ore. 

Codfish with Vegetables 

Flake a nice piece of cod, freshened and boiled, put a 
layer in a buttered pudding dish, then a layer of mashed pota- 
toes, then a layer of mashed parsnips, another layer of fish, 
and so on until all the fish and vegetables have been used; 
cover the top with cracker crumbs, dot with butter, pour in 
a little hot milk, and bake until the top is l)rown. Serve 
hot with egg sauce. This is a nice way to use up left-over 
fish, potatoes and vegetables. — [Mrs. E. F. P., Mass. 

Creamed Codfish 

To 1 lb codfish, freshened and flaked, add 1 tablesp butter 
creamed with 2 tablesp flour, 1 pt milk, and 1 cup boiling 
water. Let simmer slowly and when done serve with mashed 
potatoes. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Codfish Fritters 

Boil some freshened and flaked codfish slowly for 10 or 15 
minutes, in water barely enough to cover, then strain dry and 
cool. Make a griddle batter of milk, eggs and flour, with a 
little salt and baking powder, stir in the drained, flaked cod- 
fish, and fry the fritters brown in deep hot fat. — [E. F. P., 
Mass. 

Codfish Soup 

To 1 pt strained tomatoes add 1 cup boiled and flaked cod- 
fish, 1 qt water, and a lump of butter. Boil 15 minutes, then 
add scant % teasp soda, and while it is foamy, pour in 1 pt 
;scalded milk. Serve at once. — [A. H. B., Mich. 



MACKEREL AND HERRING WAYS 147 



Salt Mackerel 

Soak fish in cold water 24 hours, then drain, cover with 
water, add 1 tablesp vinegar, and boil until tender. Serve 
on a hot platter with melted butter poured over it. — [Mrs M 
R., N. Y. * ' 

Baked Pickled Mackerel 

Clean, scrape and wash small mackerels thoroughly. Prepare 
a mixture of 1 pt salt, 1 tablesp each ground cloves and all- 
spice, 1 heaping teasp pepper and a little ground celery seed. 
Roll mackerel in this mixture and pack in an earthen pot. 
Fill with cider vinegar, and bake slowly 4 or 5 hours. The 
above pickling mixture is enough for 25 small mackerels. This 
is an especially fine dish to serve in cold weather. — [A. R. W., 
Mass. 

Fried Salt Herring 

Wash the salt herrings in clear, cold water, in which a little 
soda has been dissolved, scrape off the scales, open and clean, 
and then cut clear down through the backbone. Wash the 
inside well, then lay the halves, cut side down, in clear water, 
deep enough to cover, and let them remain there about 12 
hours, after which wash again, dry on a towel, sprinkle each 
piece with black pepper on the inside, fold, dip in cornmeal or 
flour, and fry over a hot fire in plenty hot lard. Nice served 
with corn pones or hoe cakes. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Pickled Herring 

Freshen salted herring in clear cold water about 4 hours, 
changing water every hour. Cut in pieces of convenient siz3 
and put in a jar of vinegar with a few slices of raw onions and 
some whole spices. — [Miss M. C, N. D. 

Baked Pickled Herring 

Put a layer of fresh fish in a small, deep baking pan, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, cinnamon, cloves and flour, dot with small 
bits of butter, and so proceed until the pan is full, then cover 
with good cider vinegar and bake about 3 hours. Can be 
sealed in air-tight jars, but would keep quite a long time in 
a cold place, even without sealing. — [Mrs. J. O. W., N. Y. 

Fresh Herring with Onions 

Prepare and wash the fish, remove heads, tails and fins, 
cut each fish in halves down the back, remove the bones, and 



148 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



dry on a clean towel. Cut 2 onions fine and fry them about 
4 or 5 minutes in hot drippings, then dip each piece of herring 
in batter and fry with the onions, adding more hot fat if nec- 
essary. Fry about 8 or 10 minutes, then place the fish in the 
center of a hot platter, arrange the onions around them, and 
garnish with parsley. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Directions for Baking Fish with Dressing 

Clean, scrape and thoroughly wash the fish, and then wipe 
dry on a clean towel. Sprinkle the inside of the fish lightly 
with salt, and fill with a dressing made of bread or cracker 
crumbs, a little butter or cubes of salt pork fried brown, a 
little minced onion, and pepper, salt and sage to taste. The 
flavoring is always a matter of taste. Skewer the fish with 
wooden toothpicks, or sew up, and put in a baking pan with 
1 or 2 cups of water, sprinkle the fish with a little salt and 
flour, dot with bits of butter, and bake slowly until done, 
basting frequently. Serve hot. If the fish is large a nice way 
is to cut several deep gashes on the bias across the top of the 
fish and insert thin stripes of salt pork or bacon in these 
gashes. It is sometimes difficult to remove a baked fish from 
the pan without breaking. A flat piece of perforated tin, 
put in the pan under the fish, will help to obviate this trouble. 
— [A. G., Mass. 

Shad 

To bake a shad follow the directions for baked fish. The roe 
may be baked in the same pan with the fish. Baste frequently. 
If the fish is large it is well to rub in and outside with 
salt, let stand a while, and then wash in clear water. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Steamed or Baked Halibut 

Clean and wash thoroughly and dry with a clean towel. 
Butter a colander or any perforated dish, put the fish in this 
and place the colander over a kettle of boiling water. Do not 
let the fish touch the water. Cover colander closely and 
steam about 1 hour, or until the fish is done. Turn out on a 
hot platter, pour melted butter over it, season with pepper 
and salt, and garnish with slices of lemon. Halibut is also 
nice baked with half water and half milk, filling the baking 
pan about V2 inch, dotting the top with butter, and basting 
often. The gravy in the pan may be thickened with a little 
flour and served with the fish. Potatoes and lettuce are nice 
served with any fish. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 



CANNED AND FRESH SALMON WAYS 149 



Baked Fresh Salmon 

When I lived in Oregon a friend showed me how to bake 
fresh salmon, and I have never tasted anything more delicious. 
Wash and clean a small salmon thoroughly, in and outside, 
rub with butter, salt, and pepper, slice 1 onion, and put some 
of the slices in the fish and over the fish, and then pour 1 pt 
can of tomatoes over all. Bake in a moderate oven and baste 
frequently. Turn out on a hot platter and garnish with 
parsley. — [Mrs. E. G., Mich. 

Boiled Fresh Salmon 

Clean the fish thoroughly inside and out, put on in boiling 
water to cover, and add salt and 1 or 2 tablesp vinegar, accord- 
ing to the size of the fish. Serve with an egg or cream sauce. 
— [E. L., Neb. 

Fried Fresh Salmon 

Cut fish Into slices about % inch thick, dip in salted beaten 
egg, then in salted cracker or bread crumbs, and fry a light 
brown on both sides in hot fat. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Scalloped Salmon 

Drain off the liquor and remove the skin and bones from 1 
can of the very best salmon. Pick the fish into small pieces, 
then add 1 cup cream, ^/^ cup milk, 2 teasp flour rubbed smooth 
with 1 tablesp butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil until 
smooth, then fill into patty pans, sprinkle the top with crumbs, 
dot with bits of butter, and brown in a hot oven. — [Mrs. M. 
R., N. Y. 

Pickled Salmon 

For 4 salmons weighing about 3 lbs each allow 4 doz onions 
and 4 ozs each whole cloves and pepper, and cinnamon bark. 
Clean the fish thoroughly, salt slightly, and let stand over 
night. In the morning remove the skin, cut the fish up in 
pieces of convenient size, put them in boiling hot water, a 
few at a time, and let cook only a few minutes. Drain and put 
a layer of the fish pieces in a jar, alternating with layers of 
onions and spices, until the jar is full. Cover with good cider 
vinegar, cold, and put on an inverted plate with a weight, 
cover the jar with paper and cloth, and set away in a cold 
place. In 2 or 3 weeks the fish will be pickled suflSciently for 
use.— [Mrs. F. M., .Wash. 



150 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Salmon Loaf with Cream Sauce 

Remove the skin and bones from 1 can of the very best 
salmon, add V2 of the liquor with the fat skimmed off, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, scant y2 cup melted butter, 1 cup rolled cracker 
or bread crumbs, 1 tablesp lemon juice, 2 tablesp tomato cat- 
sup, and V2 tablesp finely minced onion. Mix thoroughly and 
steam 1 hour in well buttered pans, then dry off in the oven 
about 15 minutes. Serve with the following sauce: Rub 
1 tablesp butter and 2 tablesp flour to a cream, add scant 
% teasp salt, a dash of pepper, and 1 pt rich, scalded milk, and 
cook until smooth. Pour the sauce over and around the sal- 
mon loaf, and serve hot. The salmon loaf can be served cold 
without sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, slices of 
lemon, and sprigs of fresh parsley. — [Mrs. F. E. A., Wash. 

Fish Roe 

Wash and handle carefully, so as not to break them, dry 
on a clean towel, dip in beaten salted eggs, roll in salted 
cracker crumbs, and fry light brown on both sides in hot drip- 
pings. Serve with slices of lemon. — [M. S., O. 

Pickled Fish 

Prepare and clean the fish, cut in slices, sprinkle with salt, 
and let stand over night. Next morning drain off the liquid, 
put the fish in a kettle, add a few whole peppers and cloves, a 
few slices of onion, and bring slowly to a boil. Let simmer 
until tender. Can be served hot or cold — we prefer it cold. 
— [Mrs. H. C. O., Minn. 

Fish Chowder 

Trim and cut up about 4 or 5 lbs of any fresh fish, discard- 
ing bones and skin. Put the bones and skin on in a separate 
vessel in a little water, and let simmer gently 10 minutes. 
Cut up V2 lb salt pork, and fry until light brown, then add 2 
onions cut in thin slices and cover and cook 5 minutes, after 
which add 2 tablesp flour and cook 5 minutes longer, stirring 
frequently. Over this strain the water in which the fish 
bones were cooked, and add the fish and 1 qt potatoes cut in 
slices. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer 15 minutes, 
or until the potatoes and fish are done, after which add 1 pt 
milk. Let boil up once more, then serve hot with oyster 
crackers. The milk may be omitted and 1 pt tomatoes used 
instead. — [N. P., N. H. 



DEVILED AND PICKLED OYSTERS 151 



About Oysters and Clams 

Oysters, which are comparatively easy of digestion, though 
not very nutritious, are in season from September to May — 
that is, they are not considered good during May, June, July 
and August — the months without an "r." After removing 
from shell, 1 liquid qt contains about 50 small or medium 
sized oysters. To open oysters push a thin flat knife under 
the upper valve (the lower valve is deepest), and cut the 
muscle which holds the shells together. This muscle and the 
edges of the oysters are tough and indigestible and should 
be removed. Drain the liquor through a piece of cheesecloth 
wrung out of clear cold water, and carefully wash the oysters 
to remove grit or bits of shell. The harder parts of clams 
when cooked are quite indigestible and if not discarded ought 
to be chopped very fine. 

Better do without oysters or clams than risk buying them 
canned. Many cases of poisoning have resulted from eating 
canned oysters or clams that were not strictly fresh. It is 
safest to buy clams or oysters in the shell, and open them 
yourself, or have them opened by the dealer. When the 
shells open themselves the clams or oysters are dead and 
unfit for use. Clams and oysters should always be washed 
thoroughly, to free from grit. Long boiling toughens oysters 
— they should boil only about 1 minute, or until the edges 
curl. Do not boil them in milk, but add the milk and salt 
just before serving. Oysters should be served immediately, 
as long standing toughens them. — [A. G., Mass. 

Deviled Oysters 

Drain 2 doz oysters, chop fine, and mix with small V2 loaf 
bread moistened with a little water. Season with salt, black 
pepper and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 1 tablesp butter, and a 
little finely chopped parsley. Fill cleaned oyster shells with 
this mixture, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and set in a brisk 
oven to brown. — [Mrs. G. T. D., La. 

Pickled Oysters 

Wash 4 doz large oysters and wipe dry; strain the liquor 
and add to it 1 teasp pepper, 2 blades of mace, 1 level tablesp 
salt, and 6 or 7 tablesp vinegar. Simmer the oysters in 
this liquor a few minutes, then skim them out and put them 
in a small jar. Boil the pickle a few minutes longer, skim, 
and when cold, pour it over the oysters. Have the jar 
overflowing full, and seal air tight. — [M. P., N. H. 



152 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Scalloped Oysters 

Have ready a buttered baking dish, some melted butter in a 
saucer and some fine cracker and bread crumbs mixed. Rinse 
and drain small oysters, lift each one on a fork, roll first in 
melted butter, and then in crumbs, and put in the baking dish. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with oysters treated this way, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and a very, very little mace — be 
careful not to use too much. Fill the dish in this way, and 
then pour in about % cup strained oyster liquor and 2 tablesp 
cream. Cover the top with a thin layer of crumbs, dot with 
bits of butter, and bake in a hot oven about y^ hour. — [M. P., 
N. H. 

Baked Oysters 

Wash and drain 1 qt small oysters. Make a sauce of 1 cup 
strained oyster liquor, '^/z cup milk and % cup each butter and 
flour. Season with 1 level teasp salt, a few dashes of pepper 
and 1 tablesp grated cheese. Add the cheese after the sauce 
has cooked 5 minutes, and remove from the fire as soon as the 
cheese is melted. Parboil the oysters in a little of their own 
liquor until the edges curl, then put them in the sauce pre- 
pared as directed above, turn all into a buttered baking dish, 
cover with 1 cup fine cracker crumbs, dot liberally with butter, 
and bake until the crumbs are brown. Parboil the oysters 
"before making sauce, as the extra liquor will be needed. — • 
[M. P., N. H. 

Fried Oysters or Clams, and Fritters 

Wash, drain and dry oysters between clean cloths. Dip in 
beaten eggs, then in bread or cracker crumbs, and then in eggs 
and cracker crumbs again, seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Fry about 1 minute in deep, smoking hot fat. Drain on soft 
paper to absorb the grease, and serve at once. To make frit- 
ters dip the oysters in a batter made of flour, eggs and a little 
of the oyster liquor and salt. The oysters should be gener- 
ously covered with the batter. Fry quickly in deep, hot fat. 
Clams may be prepared the same way. — [A. G., Mass. 

Oyster Stew 

To 1 cup strained oyster liquor add % cup water, boil and 
«kim, then add V2. teasp salt, ^ teasp pepper, 1 tablesp butter 
and 1 tablesp fine cracker crumbs. When it boils add 1 qt 
oysters and boil 1 minute. Put Vo, cup cream in a tureen, pour 
the boiling oyster stew in this, and serve at once. Do not cook 
the oysters in milk, as that toughens them. — [E. K., Mass. 



CLAM AND OYSTER PIES 153- 



Oysters with Macaroni 

Break Vz lb macaroni (spaghetti) into 1 inch pieces, and 
cook in boiling salted water until tender, then drain in a col- 
ander. In the bottom of a buttered baking dish put a layer of 
the macaroni, cover with oysters, and a little of their liquor,, 
sprinkle with seasoning and bits of butter, and so continue 
with alternate layers of macaroni and oysters until the dish is- 
filled. Pour over all IVz cups milk mixed with 2 well-beaten 
eggs, cover the top with bread crumbs, dot liberally with pieces- 
of butter, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. — 
[M. F. S., Mich. 

Oyster Pie 

Mash 1 qt boiled potatoes, add 1 pt oysters with their liquor, 
1 tablesp butter and salt and pepper to taste. Line a pie tin 
with pastry, pour in the potato and oyster mixture, cover with 
pastry, and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Oyster Omelet 

To 1 doz small oysters add 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs, 2 or 3 
tablesp milk, and salt and pepper to taste, with fine bread 
crumbs to thicken. Put in a small well buttered baking dish, 
dot with butter, bake until browned, and serve at once. — 
[M. P., N. H. 

Clam Pie 

Cut salt pork in dice and fry brown. Slice potatoes and 
onions and boil until tender in milk to cover. Into a buttered 
pudding dish put a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, then a 
layer of oysters, a little of the fried salt pork, a layer of the 
boiled potatoes and onions, sprinkle with pepper, salt and a lit- 
tle mace, and moisten with a little of the clam liquor, strained. 
Proceed in this way until the dish is full, then cover with a 
pie or biscuit crust, cut a few slits in the top, and bake in a 
rather quick oven. — [A. G., Mass. 

Clam Soup 

Chop 2 doz clams very fine, and drain. Pare and chop fine 3 
potatoes and put them on to boil in 1 qt milk, in a double 
boiler. Rub V2 cup butter and 2 heaping tablesp flour together 
until smooth and creamy, and when the milk and potatoes 
have been boiling 15 minutes stir in the flour and butter and 
cook about 10 minutes longer, after which add the drained 
clams, season with pepper and salt, and a little finely chopped 
parsley. Cook 1 minute, and serve at once. This is a very 
delicately flavored soup, as the clam liquor is not used. — 
[N. P., N. H. 



154 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Clam Chowder 

Cut fine 1 lb salt pork and fry a golden brown, then add 3 
or 4 qts water, 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 3 carrots, ^^ small tur- 
nip and V2 small head cabbage, all chopped fine. Let boil 
about 2 hours, then add about 1 qt tomatoes, 3 or 4 bay leaves, 
some celery salt or fresh celery, chopped fine, a little parsley 
and salt to taste. Boil until all the ingredients are well done, 
tlien add 1 or 2 qts clams, chopped fine, and a little of the 
liquor strained. Boil 15 or 20 minutes, and just before serv- 
ing add 1 qt hot milk, if liked. Serve with crisp crackers. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Crabs and Lobsters 

The natural color of a live, healthy lobster is usually a dark, 
mottled, bluish green, but in sandy regions sometimes 
slightly reddish, and when boiled the color of the lobster 
changes to red. Lobsters are most plentiful during April and 
May, and the average weight is from 2 to 5 lbs. Lobsters 
should always be bought alive (unless they are bought ready 
■iooked), and cooked, at once, by plunging as quickly as possi- 
ble into a large kettleful of boiling and bubbling hot water, 
head first. Add about 1 tablesp salt, cover the kettle closely, 
and boil briskly 1 minute, and then simmer gently ^/^ hour. 
Hard shell crabs are treated the same way. To dress a crab 
or lobster remove the shell by cutting with scissors, leaving 
the white flesh whole, wherever possible, and discarding the 
Intestinal vein and stomach. Lobster or crab meat, cut fine, is 
nice mixed with an equal amount of cream sauce. Soft shell 
crabs are usually fried. Dress carefully, dip in milk, season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour or bread or cracker crumbs, 
and fry a golden brown in deep, hot fat. — [A. G., Mass. 



Frozen fish should be thawed out in cold water, and then 
cooked at once. — [A. G., Mass. 

Never salt oysters until just before removing from the fire, 
or they will shrivel and harden. — [S. E. W., O. 

The old fish rule is, "Always fry my belly brown before you 
turn my back down." This a good rule, as the fish will not 
break in pieces if fried this way. — [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. 

It is best to fry fish in pure olive oil, fresh lard comes next, 
and butter is the least desirable. Lemon juice or slices 
of lemon are generally served with fish, as the acid corrects 
and balances the strong, fishy taste. — [Mrs. E. J. G., Mass. 




Meat, Poultry and Game 

AINTY cookery can convert the cheaper cuts of 
meat and fowl that is anything but tender, into 
wholesome, appetizing and hearty dishes. If the 
housewife can do this, she has learned the trick 
of reducing the butcher's bill by half, without 
stinting the meat supply. Authorities claim that 
the cheaper cuts of beef when properly prepared are by far 
more nutritious than the fancy, high-priced cuts. The fol- 
lowing recipes include some very economical meat, poultry 
and game dishes, that sound decidedly "good," and by 
following the special directions for boiling and roasting, it 
ought not to be so difficult to get satisfactory results. The 
various recipes will also be found to be valuable aids in 
providing welcome variety for the dinner table, and though 
game is a rarity in most homes, yet these recipes will 
doubtless be appreciated too, when luck favors the hunter. 

General Directions for Boiling and Roasting Meat 

If meat is put on in cold water and salted at once the juices 
will be extracted, and therefore this method should be used 
only for soups or broths. Putting it on in boiling water will 
close the pores and form a coating which will help to retain 
the juices. Salt also helps to extract juices and therefore 
should not be added until the meat is almost done. Meat for 
roasting should be wiped dry and put in a hot pan with very 
hot fat, in a very hot oven, adding salt after the meat is half 
done. Pot roasts should likewise be put dry into very hot fat 
and browned on all sides before water is added. When roast- 
ing meat the heat of the oven can be slightly decreased after 
the first half hour. Pot roast should simmer slowly after the 
first half hour, as quick cooking toughens it. — [A. G., Mass. 

Boiled Beef with Dressing 

Put a piece of nicely trimmed beef in a kettle, and any pre- 
ferred dressing, sewed up in a cheese cloth bag. Add boiling 
water to cover, and boil until the meat is done. Thicken 
some of the stock with a little flour, and serve as gravy. The 

155 



156 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



remainder of the stock can be used as a foundation for soup. 
If the meat is not fat enough add some butter to the dressing, 
and if the meat will require very long boiling, do not add the 
bag of dressing until the meat is half done, when salt may 
also be added. Onion added to the dressing or the liquor 
improves the flavor. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Steamed Beef 

Trim a nice piece of beef, cut deep gashes into it, and insert 
strips of salt pork, tie with twine to keep in shape, then put 
in a lard pail, add 1 chopped onion and a little sage, if liked, 
but no water. Cover the pail tightly, and put it in an iron pot 
filled with boiling water, and boil steadily about 3 hours. 
Then open the pail, season the meat with salt and pepper, 
and fill nearly full with sliced raw potatoes. Cover the pail 
again and steam 3 hours longer. If inconvenient to use the top 
of the stove, the steaming can be done in the oven just as well, 
where it will only require 5 hours in all. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

To Cook Corned Beef 

Wash the meat, and if very salty, soak it in cold water 
over night, then put it into a pot with cold water to cover, 
set over a brisk fire, let it come to a boil, remove the scum, 
and let simmer slowly 3 or 4 hours, according to size. If the 
water boils away add more boiling water. Cabbage or turnips 
and potatoes may be boiled with the meat during the last 
hour. If the meat is to be served cold allow it to cool in the 
liquor. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

Pressed Beef 

Cook a cheap piece of beef very slowly until very tender, 
then let the liquor boil away to a small amount; chop or grind 
the meat very fine, season well with salt, pepper, and a little 
sage and summer savory, moisten with the liquor in which 
the meat was cooked, pack very solidly in ^ jars, and set away 
to chill. Serve cut in thin slices. — [Mrs. G. W. S., Kan. 

Braised Beef 

Cut 2 lbs round steak in dice 1 inch square. Put 2 gener- 
ous slices of salt pork in a kettle and fry brown; then remove 
the scraps, and add to the hot fat 1 large onion, sliced, and 
fry until brown, after which add the meat dredged with flour, 
the brown pork scraps, and enough water to partly cover, and 
simmer slowly 3 hours. During the last hour season with salt 
and pepper, and when done thicken the gravy with a little 
flour. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 



i 



BEEF AND PORK ROASTS 157 

Boast Beef 

Take a piece of rib or loin, trim and wipe clean with a dry 
towel, put in a hot dripping pan with a little hot butter or 
suet, and set in a very hot oven. Remember that the oven 
must be very hot when the roast is first put in. Baste fre- 
quently and when partly done and nicely browned, season with 
salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Do not salt the raw 
meat, as that would draw out the juices and make it tough. 
A roast of about 8 lbs will require about 2 hours roasting. 
Less would leave the inside too rare and longer roasting 
would dry it out. When done remove the roast to a hot 
platter, skim the fat from the gravy in the pan, add about 
1 tablesp flour, stir well over the fire, and when browned pour 
in about 1 cup water. Boil up once and pour in a hot gravy 
boat. — [Mrs. L. J. P., Ore. 

A. Quick Way to Roast Beef 

Plunge the beef in a kettle of boiling water and boil briskly 
until almost done. Add salt to taste during the last half 
hour. Put some butter or drippings in a pan on top of the 
stove, lift the meat from the broth, drain, and then put it in 
the pan of hot drippings and brown quickly on both sides. 
When nicely browned all over, remove the meat to a hot 
platter, add a little flour to the gravy in the pan, and when 
brown stir in some of the broth in which the meat was cooked. 
When boiling beef do not use any more water than is neces- 
sary. A nice roast can be prepared in this way in half the 
time it would take to roast it in the oven in the usual way. — 
[Mrs. E. M. C, 111. 



Pot Roast (Beef or Pork) 

Top or bottom round, or a piece of the chuck is nice for a 
pot roast of beef. The pot should be no larger than necessary 
to accommodate the meat, and an iron pot is best. Put some 
drippings in the pot, and let get very hot. Trim the meat, 
wipe it clean with a dry towel, and then put it in the sizzling 
hot drippings, and turn until browned all over. Meanwhile 
fry some onions brown in a little drippings in a separate pan, 
and when the meat in the pot is well browned, add the 
browned onions, % or 1 cup boiling water, salt and pepper to 
taste, and 2 or 3 bay leaves. Cover the pot closely so that 
no steam can escape, and let it simmer on top of the stove 
until the roast is nice and tender, turning often and watch- 
ing carefully, so it does not burn. If the water seems to boil 
away too rapidly, add a very little more boiling water, when- 
ever necessary. When the meat is done, put on a hot platter. 



158 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

add a little flour to the gravy, and when this has browned 
nicely pour in a little cold water, boil up once, and then pour 
the gravy into a gravy boat. If a slightly sour taste is liked, 
1 or 2 tablesp vinegar may be added to the meat while roast- 
ing. — [A. G., Mass. 

Sour Pot Roast of Beef 

Put a piece of nicely trimmed beef in a deep dish, pour 
over it 1 cup vinegar, and set away in a cold place 3 days, 
turning and basting the meat with the vinegar frequently 
every day. After 3 days remove the meat from the vinegar, 
wipe with a dry towel, cut gashes in the meat and insert 
strips of fat bacon rolled in a mixture of salt, pepper and 
ground cloves. Put some butter or drippings in an iron pot, 
and when hot put in the beef, dredged with flour, and brown 
nicely on all sides; then add about 2 cups boiling water, 2 car- 
rots and 2 onions cut in pieces, 1 teasp whole pepper, 1 blade 
of mace, a small piece of lemon peel, and salt to taste. Cover 
closely and let simmer gently until the meat is tender, then 
take out the meat and vegetables, strain the gravy, return to 
the fire and thicken with a little flour. Put the meat on a 
platter, pour over 1 or 2 tablesp of the gravy, and garnish 
with the onions and carrots. Serve remainder of gravy in a 
boat. — [S. E. W., O. 

To Fry or Broil Steak 

Beefsteak should be cut thick. If you have any well- 
founded suspicion that it is not tender, lay it out on a clean 
table, and pound it hard on both sides with the side of a 
wooden potato masher. Have the frying pan very hot, put in 
some drippings, or butter, and when this is hot, put in the 
steak, and keep on moving it around, but do not prick with a 
fork, as this would cause the juices to run out. When brown 
on one side turn and brown on the other. The fire must be 
hot, for if steak is not fried quickly it will be tough. Put 
on a hot platter, add a very little hot water to the gravy 
in the pan, pour over the steak, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve at once. To broil steak have a nice clear fire of red 
coals, and turn steak often until a nice brown on both sides. 
Put on a hot platter with butter and season with salt and 
pepper. Never add salt to steak while frying or broiling. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Hamburg Steak (Beef or Pork) 

Use clear beef, beef and pork mixed, or clear pork, allow- 
ing 1/4 part fat to % part lean. Chop or grind, :?eason with 
a little chopped onion, or onion juice, add pepper and salt 
to taste, shape into small, flat cakes, and fry brown on both 
sides in hot butter or drippings. — [M. A. M., Ind. 



BEEFSTEAK AND LIVER WAYS 159 



Beefsteak Roll 

ake round steak cut about % inch thick, trim off the 
fat, spread thickly with a nice dressing, adding some finely 
minced onion if liked, roll up, and tie securely with a string,, 
or fasten with skewers. Put in a hot dripping pan with 
hot drippings, on top of the stove, and turn the roll until 
well browned on all sides, then pour in about 1 pt boiling 
water and 1 tablesp vinegar, season well with salt and pepper, 
cover closely, and let simmer on back of stove about 3 hours, 
by which time it will be nice and brown and tender. Thicken 
the gravy with a little flour, and serve with the meat. Nice 
sliced when cold. Can be roasted in the oven, if preferred. — 
[N. S. C, Cal. 

Dried Beef with Milk 

Put butter the size of an egg into a skillet and let brown, 
then add dry beef, sliced and pulled into small pieces, let 
fry a few minutes, then add 1 cup water, let boil a few 
minutes, then add 1 qt milk, and when this comes to a 
boil stir in 3 tablesp flour mixed to a smooth paste with a 
little milk. This is a very nice breakfast dish in winter 
time. — [Mrs. W. W. P., Okla. 

Hungarian Goulash 

Put butter size of an egg in a deep spider, add 2 slices 
fat bacon, 3 or 4 slices onion, a little pepper, and when, 
smoking hot add steak cut in small pieces. Fry until nicely 
brown, then add water enough to cover, and 1 tablesp lemon 
juice. Cover closely and let simmer until tender. Thicken 
the gravy with a little flour. If wished, potatoes and 
tomatoes cut in small pieces may be added the last half 
hour. Goulash should be quite hot with pepper. — [S. E. W., O. 

Stewed Liver 

Parboil the liver in salted water and when tender cut 
into small squares. Thicken 1 qt milk with 2 tablesp flour, 
add butter size of an egg, and salt and pepper to taste, then 
put in the pieces of liver, let boil up once more, and serve 
on hot buttered toast. — [E. P., Mass. 

Fried Liver (Sour) 

Fry liver and bacon until nicely brown, then put on a 
warm platter and fry some onions in the remaining fat, and 
when brown add % cup vinegar, ^ cup water, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Let come to a boil, then thicken with 
a little flour, let boil a few minutes, pour over the liver and 
bacon, and serve. Heart may be sliced and prepared in the 
same way. — [Mrs. L. D., Col. 



160 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK i 

i 
liiver lioaf "^ 

Boil 1 lb liver until tender, chop fine; mix with 2 well- ■ 
beaten eggs, add 4 boiled and chopped potatoes, a small piece \ 
of chopped salt pork, fried half done, butter the size of a J 
walnut, and salt, pepper and sage to taste. Form into a 1 
loaf, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake. Can also be < 
shaped into small cakes and fried. — [Mrs. J. A. W., Mo. i 

Fried Tripe 

\ 
Cut the tripe in pieces, dredge with flour, roll in salted, ! 
beaten egg, then dredge with flour again, and fry in hot j 
drippings, rough side down, and when brown turn and brown j 
the other side. Another way is to put the tripe in a dish * 
in the oven for 10 or 15 minutes, then dry in a cloth, dip i 
in flour or cornmeal, and fry quickly in hot drippings. — [F, 1 
M. W., N. H. I 

Stewed Haslet | 

Clean and trim, and boil the haslet Vz hour in salted water, ^ 
skimming often. When done, drain and cut in small pieces, \ 
add more than enough water to cover, with 1 or 2 tablesp ; 
butter and some sliced onions and potatoes, also salt and | 
pepper to taste. When done, thicken the gravy with a little ^ 
flour. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. ;; 

Baked Heart 

Use either beef or pork heart. Clean thoroughly, cut out s 
all the clots of blood and stringy parts, soak in salt water 2 ] 
or 3 hours, then drain and put in a kettle with plenty of ; 
water, a piece of suet the size of an egg, salt and pepper to i 
taste, and let boil until tender. Make a dressing moistened | 
writh the water in which the heart was boiled, and fill the ] 
opening of the heart, then put in a deep pan, and if any of \ 
the dressing is left over, place it around the heart, and i 
l>ake until brown, turning and basting often, using the j 
water in which the heart was boiled. — [Mrs. J. H. S. Mich. j 

Deviled Heart | 

Cook veal heart until tender, chop or grind fine, mix with' 1 
% the quantity of bread crumbs, season with salt, red s 
pepper, sage, and a little grated nutmeg, put a layer in j 
a buttered baking dish, moisten with the liquor the heart | 
was boiled in, sprinkle with bread crumbs, dot with butter, j 
^nd bake about ^ hour. — [L. E. M., Mich. ] 

i 




PLUCKING BIDDY FREE OF FEATHERS. 



MEAT LOAF AND ROAST VEAIi 161 



Meat Loaf (Beef, Pork, or Veal) 

Grind or chop 3 lbs round steak and % lb beef suet, add 
1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp pepper, 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs, a 
very small chopped onion, 8 tablesp fine bread or cracker 
crumbs, and 1 cup milk. Mix thoroughly, shape into two loaves, 
roll in bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake 1 
hour, basting often. This recipe may be varied by combining 
% beef with ^4 pork, omitting the suet, and using less 
eggs when the pork is used. Veal loaf is also nice, with 
^ part pork, which may be either fresh or salt. If the 
onion taste is not liked omit these, and flavor with a very 
little nutmeg and cloves. Instead of milk, water can be 
used, and instead of shaping into large loaves, make into 
small rolls or balls and either bake or fry them. The gravy 
in the pan should be thickened with a little flour and served 
with the meat. — [Mrs. L. P., Ore. 

Mutton with Cabbage and Potatoes 

Cut mutton in small pieces and put on with cold water 
enough to cover, add 1 small head crisp, tender cabbage, cut 
in small pieces, pepper and salt to taste. Half hour before 
serving add potatoes. Boil until all is tender, strain and 
thicken the gravy with a little flour. — [Mrs. E. O. B., Minn. 

Stewed Mutton and Com 

Wash and cut mutton in small pieces and put in a stew 
pan with 1 or 2 chopped onions, and water to cover. When 
the liquid has boiled down about one-half, add 1 qt hulled 
com and 1 pt strained tomatoes, with salt and pepper to 
taste, and stew about % hour longer. — [C. J. M., Neb. 

Roast FiUet of Veal 

Remove the bones and fill in with a dressing seasoned with 
salt and pepper, parsley' and thyme. Bake in a hot oven, 
allowing 20 minutes for every lb veal. Baste with drip- 
ings — any fat except salt pork. When done thicken the 
gravy with a little flour. — [S. B., N. Y. 

Veal with Pork 

Put slices of fat salt pork in a frying pan with just 
water enough to cover and let come to a boil, then drain 
the water from the pork, return it to the fire, put slices of 
veal on top of the pork, dust with salt and pepper, and 
fry slowly, turning often until both are nicely browned. The 
flavor of both meats is improved by this combination and 
method of cooking. — [Mrs. A. B. W., N. Y. 



162 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



JelUed Veal 

Boil a lean piece of veal in water enough to cover, until 
the bones separate from the meat. Cut the meat in small 
pieces, boil the liquor down to about 1 pt, add to it y^ box 
clear gelatine, soaked about 10 minutes in a little cold water, 
3^ teasp celery salt, % teasp cayenne pepper, 1 level teasp 
mustard, and the juice of 1 lemon. Let boil up a minute, 
then strain over the meat, put in a mold, and let stand over 
night to get cold. Slices of hard-boiled eggs can be put in 
with the meat. When hard, turn out and serve cut in slices. — 
[Mrs. A. B. W., N. Y. 

Roast Loin of Pork 

Separate each joint of the loin, make an incision in the 
thick part of the pork, and fill with a dressing mixed with 
some chopped suet and seasoned with onions and spices to 
taste. Bring the edges of the meat together and sew them 
up, then wrap the meat in a well greased sheet of white 
paper, tie up with twine, put in a dripping pan, place in a 
hot oven, and baste often with the grease which will melt 
from the roast. Bake about 20 minutes for each pound of 
pork. — [Mrs. R. F. K., la. 

Fried Pork Tenderloin 

Cut the tenderloin in 1-inch slices, pound with a potato 
masher, sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in beaten ^^^, 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown in plenty hot 
drippings, or butter. Tenderloin is too dry for boiling, and 
if roasted should be basted frequently. — [Mrs. M. M. B., Mo. 

Mock Birds (Pork) 

Spread any preferred dressing on thin slices of lean, boiled 
salt pork, fasten the ends together firmly with wooden tooth- 
picks, brown these rolls ih a pan, and then remove to a 
platter. Add to the fat in the pan some finely minced onion 
and a little flour, and when brown add some water and pepper 
to taste, and return the stuffed rolls to this gravy, and let 
stew about 2 hours. — [Mrs. C. J. M., Neb. 

Fried Salt Pork 

Cut salt pork in slices and let soak over night in butter- 
milk or sour milk. Next morning drain off, roll in corn meal, 
and fry brown on both sides, in hot drippings. — [Mrs. E. G. 
S., N. Y. 



SALT PORK AND SMOKED HAM 163 



Salt Pork with Vegetables 

Soak a piece of salt pork in water over night. In the morn- 
ing put on with clear cold water, and add some carrots, 
turnips, rutabagas, and potatoes, cut in pieces, also a few 
pieces of celery stalks or root. Let boil until the water 
has reduced and the meat and vegetables are done. Instead 
of salt pork a piece of bacon or a ham bone may be used. — 
[Mrs. E. O. B.. Minn. 

Salt Pork with Dried Apples 

Wash a piece of nice salt pork, and put in a kettle with 
cold water enough to cover, then add some washed, dried 
apples, cover closely, and cook slowly until done. After you 
have tasted this once you will surely call for more. — [E. K. 
D., N. Y. 

Mexican Chili Pork 

Cut 1 lb bacon in small dice and fry brown, then add 9 
onions, cut fine, and fry with the bacon until done, but not 
brown, then add 1 qt each tomatoes and baked beans, salt 
to taste, and plenty of pepper. This is very good and improves 
with each warming up. — [Mrs. H. G., Neb. 

Baked Ham 

Wash and scrape the ham and trim. Make a dough of 
flour and water and V2 cup syrup, roll out i/^ inch thick, and 
cover the ham with this, being careful to cover all parts. 
Put in a hot oven to brown, then decrease the heat, and 
bake slowly till done, basting often. It will take from 4 
to 6 hours, according to the size of the ham. When done 
remove the crust. This is a much better way than boiling. — • 
[Mrs. S. B., Tex. 

Boiled Ham 

Soak smoked ham over night in cold water and the next 
morning scrape it until you are sure it is thoroughly clean, 
trimming off any blackened parts. Put in a kettle of boiling 
water, cover closely, and boil gently until done. It will take 
from 4 to 6 hours, according to the size of the ham. When 
done remove from the water, pull off the rind, score the fat 
side criss-cross, insert a whole clove into each square, place in 
a baking pan in a very hot oven, and leave there until the fat 
is nice and brown. — [A. G., Mass. 



164 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



To Fry Ham 

Cut ham in slices ^ inch thick, pour boiling water over 
them, let them stand a few minutes, then drain, roll in flour 
or cornmeal and fry slowly in hot drippings until a light 
brown on both sides. — [Mrs. F. H., Mo. 

Creamed Shredded Ham 

Thicken 1 cup milk with 2 teasp flour, add butter size 
of egg, 2 well-beaten eggs, salt to taste, let boil a few minutes, 
then add bits of finely shredded lean ham. Serve with baked 
potatoes, or pour over buttered toast. — [E. P., Mass. 

Potted Ham 

Allow 1 qt lean ham and V2 pt fat, chop or grind very fine, 
add 1 teasp ground mace, % teasp nutmeg and allspice, and 
a little pepper. Mix thoroughly, pound to a paste, pack in 
small jars, cover with melted lard, and store in a cool place. — 
[N. S. C, Cal. 

A Favorite Dutch Dish 

Boil a good sized ham bone in about 1 gal water for several 
hours. Water in which the ham was boiled (if the ham was 
scraped nice and clean) can be used. When done, take out 
the ham bone, and when the water is cooled, add to it 1 qt 
dried apples, and let them soak until they have softened. This 
should be done the evening before the dish is wanted, and 
the same evening a new baking of bread should be put 
to rise. Next morning put the pot of ham bone liquor and 
soaked apples over the fire, and as soon as it boils, break off 
little pieces from the raised bread dough, size of a walnut, drop 
into the boiling liquor and boil till the apples and bread 
dumplings are done. Serve hot. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Sausage Fritters 

To % pt sour milk or buttermilk, add 14 teasp soda, Vz 
teasp salt, and flour enough to make a moderately stiff 
batter. Dip squares or cakes of sausage meat in this batter, 
and fry brown on both sides. Another way is to mix the 
sausage meat with the batter and drop by spoonsful into hot 
drippings. — [Mrs. J. W. K., Tenn. 

Crust for Meat Pie 

To 1 pt sifted flour add 1 teasp salt, 2 teasp baking powder, 
2 tablesp butter or lard, and milk enough to make a soft 
dough. Cut 3 or 4 holes in the top crust, and insert in each 
a small buttered paper tube or cone, to permit the steam to 
escape. — [Mrs. M. E. R., Wis. 



MEAT PIES AND TOP CRUSTS 165 



Crust for Pot Pie 

To 1 qt flour add 1 teasp salt, 4 teasp baking powder, and 
milk enough to make a stiff batter. Drop batter by spoonsful 
into a pan of flour, roll around in the flour, pat into shape 
with the hands, and when the meat is nearly done, drop these 
bits of crust into the kettle. The liquid should be boiling 
briskly. Cover and cook V2 hour. The covered kettle may 
be transferred from the stove to a hot oven, as soon as the 
crust is put in and if the kettle is not too full, it will not 
boil over, and the crust will not be heavy. — [Miss G. R., N. Y. 

Meat Pie 

Use any remnants of left-over beef, pork, veal, lamb or mut- 
ton and left-over potatoes ot equal quantity, or take small pieces 
of fresh meat and raw potatoes, and boil them together until 
tender, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Let the 
gravy boil down some, and thicken with very little flour. Line 
a deep pie pan with a short biscuit or pie crust, rolled out 
about 1/4 inch thick, put in the meat and potatoes with the 
gravy, cover with a top crust, in which several slits were 
cut to allow for the escape of steam, pinch the edges together, 
and bake until a nice brown. Do not put too much gravy in 
the pie, but if there is any left over, serve it separately with 
the pie. If onions are liked, boil this with the meat and 
potatoes. — [Mrs. J. H. S., Mich. 

Veal Pot Pie 

Cut 2 lbs veal in small pieces, and put over the fire with 
2 qts cold water. Bring to a quick boil, then move to the 
back of the range and simmer slowly until tender, adding salt 
when nearly done. Half hour before serving drop some 
dumplings into the boiling broth, cover and boil 20 minutes. 
Add a lump of butter to the gravy and if it is too thin, thicken, 
it with a little flour. — [Mrs. E. P. C, Me. 

Salt Pork Pie 

Slice % lb salt, lean pork, freshen, and fry brown. Pare 
and cut into thick slices 2 qts potatoes and 1 qt onions, and 
put in the kettle with the fried meat, adding 2 qts boiling 
water. Let this boil while you prepare a crust. When the 
potatoes and onions are partly done, thicken with 2 tablesp 
flour, and pour into a pudding dish. Cover with the crust, 
and bake until done. — [G. C, Wis. 



166 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Chicken or Meat Pie 

Bits of left-over meat or poultry can be made into appe- 
tizing pies. Cut the meat in small pieces, and mix with, 
gravy, or, if you have no gravy, make some by frying onions 
brown in drippings, and thickening with flour, adding a very 
little water. Put the meat and gravy in a pudding dish, and 
cover with mashed potatoes an inch thick. Moisten the top 
slightly with milk, dot with bits of butter, and bake until 
brown. Serve hot. — [Mrs. S. C. P., Mass, 

Mock Cliicken Pie 

Pare and slice 1 qt potatoes and 3 onions, add 2 tablesp 
butter, and 1 teasp each sage and salt. Cook until tender 
in plenty water, then drain and put the liquid in a basin to 
keep hot. Put the potatoes and onions in a well buttered 
dish, slice 6 hard-boiled eggs on top, moisten with a little 
of the potato liquid, cover with a rich biscuit dough, and 
bake. The potato water may be thickened with a little flour, 
and served with the pie. — [Miss E. I. B., Cal. 

Ham Pie 

Boil slice of lean, cured ham or shoulder about 1 hour. Line 
a buttered pan with biscuit dough, put in a layer of the 
cooked meat, season with pepper, scatter a few dumplings 
of the dough over the meat, pour over some of the water 
the ham was boiled in, then another layer of meat and dump- 
lings with some more of the meat liquor, and then break in 
as many eggs as you have people to serve, or as many as 
you can spare. Put on the top crust, bake, and when nearly 
done pour in about 1 pt sweet milk, and finish baking. — 
i:Mrs. H. A. B., Mont. 

Baked Hash 

Take pieces of left-over cooked or roasted meat and pota- 
toes, chop coarsely, and season with salt, pepper and onion 
juice. Butter a pudding dish, cover the sides and bottom 
with bread crumbs, put in the meat and potatoes, add some 
left-over gravy, or hot butter and water, cover with crumbs, 
dot with bits of butter, and bake about 2 minutes. If no 
cold boiled potatoes are at hand, chop some raw potatoes 
and onions, put in the pan with a little water, salt and 
pepper, cover, and simmer until done, then add the meat 
and pour into the pudding dish. — [A. G., Mass. 

India Curry with Rice 

Cut onions in rings and fry brown in butter; when brown 
take out the onions, and fry pieces of meat, fish, game> or 



PICKING AND CLEANING POULTRY 167 

poultry in the same fat, adding a small piece of garlic, a 
little coriander seed, and 1 heaping teasp curry powder. 
Let simmer 1 minute, stirring all the time, then add a 
little hot water and let simmer 1 hour over a slow fire. 
Adding an apple cut in pieces is a great improvement. Put 
1 cup rice over the fire with 3 qts water, and when tender, 
drain through a colander. Pour a pt cold water over the rice 
in the colander, shake well, and when thoroughly drained, 
serve hot with the curry. The water that the rice was 
boiled in makes good starch for clothes, or with a little 
lemon juice and sugar makes a good drink for invalids. — 
£Capt. A. H., N. J. 

To Pick and Clean Poultry 

For market, dry picking is the best way — that is, pulling 
out the feathers immediately after killing, while the poultry 
is still warm, but for home consumption, the scalding method 
is the quicker and easier. After killing dip in scalding hot 
water and move about for a few minutes, then pick as 
quickly as possible. Ducks should be scalded a little longer 
and then wrapped in canvas or any close cloth, to steam 
about 5 to 10 minutes, after which the feathers can be 
easily pulled. The hairs should be singed off by holding 
and turning the poultry in the flames of a lighted twist of 
paper, or some burning alcohol. Wash thoroughly and dry, 
and then lay on several folds of paper, and clean at once. 
The quicker poultry is cleaned, the better, but it is best not 
to cook it until 2 4 hours after killing. 

After singeing, and before drawing, pull out all pin feathers, 
then cut off the head, and next cut through the skin around 
each leg, about IVz inches below the first leg joint, being 
careful not to cut tendons. Place the leg" with the cut 
over the edge of a table, press downward to snap the bone, 
then take the foot in the right hand, holding the bird firmly 
in the left hand, and pull off the foot, and with it the 
tendons. Make a lengthwise cut through the skin just 
below the breast bone, large enough to admit the hand, 
and remove the entrails entire, by first carefully loosening 
them all around, and then bringing the hand forward, grasp- 
ing the entrails firmly, and with one pull drawing them out. 
The lungs and kidneys, on either side of the back-bone, 
should next be removed, and then the wind-pipe and crop, 
close to the skin of the breast, by inserting two fingers under 
the neck skin. Draw down the skin and cut the neck off 
close to the body, leaving on enough skin to close up the 
opening after the crop is partly filled with a little dressing. 
The giblets (gizzard, heart and liver) should next be care- 
fully separated from the entrails, being careful not to break 



168 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



the gall bag attached to the liver, the bile from which would 
impart an extremely bitter flavor to any parts it came in 
contact with. Then wash the bird thoroughly in and out- 
side, rub with salt, and let hang in a cool place over night. — . 
[A. G., Mass. 

Sleamed Fowl 

Dress a 5 or 6 lb chicken, wash and dry thoroughly, and 
rub with salt and pepper, in and outside. Place an onion 
and a bay leaf inside, and put the fowl into shape the same 
as for roasting. Sprinkle a clean towel with flour, wrap it 
about the fowl, pinning closely, and then place it, back 
down, in a steamer, and steam continuously 2 or 3 hours, 
according to its age and size. Serve with currant or cran- 
berry jelly. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

Fried Chicken 

Dress a young chicken, cut off the legs, wings and neck, 
and then cut down the back bone, and press the body open, 
breaking the breast bone by pounding lightly. Boil the legs, 
wings, and giblets in water enough to cover, and when 
tender add salt and pepper to taste, and 1 tablesp flour mixed 
with 1 tablesp butter. This will answer as a dressing for the 
fried chicken. Dip the body of the chicken in corn meal 
and fry brown in hot drippings. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Pickled Chicken 

This is a nice way to prepare old and tough chicken. Clean 
and joint and soak in cold salted water several hours, then put 
on with fresh water and salt, 2 or 3 sliced onions, 2 or 3 
bay leaves, V2 doz whole allspice, and when nearly done 
add enough vinegar to make it quite sour to taste. Let boil 
until done, then pour into a crock. There should be enough 
liquid to cover the fowl. Let stand over night. When cold 
the liquid will be jellied. — [Mrs. G. A., Minn. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Dress and joint the chicken, sprinkle with pepper and salt 
and place in a pan with butter size of an egg, and milk to cover. 
Bake until tender. If the milk boils away add more milk, 
or hot water. Thicken the milk gravy with a little flour 
just before serving. — [C. B. O., Kan. 

Smothered Chicken 

Dress and joint a young chicken, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll in flour or corn meal, place the pieces closely in 



CHICKEN SOUP AND FRICASSEE 169 

a bread pan, half cover with cold v/ater or milk, and if the 
chicken is not very fat add lumps of butter or some thick 
slices of fat bacon. Bake until done. When one side is 
brown, turn to brown on the other side, and when nearly done 
put a 2-inch square of biscuit dough on top of each piece of 
chicken, return to the oven, and bake until a nice brown. 
When done, remove the chicken with crust to a hot platter, 
add 1 cup rich cream to the liquor in the pan, thicken with 
a little flour, let boil up, and serve with the chicken.-. — 
[Mrs. M. M. B., Mont. 

Pressed or Potted Chicken 

Dress and joint a chicken, and boil in water enough to 
cover, until the meat slips from the bones. Drain off the 
liquor, remove the bones, and cut the meat in small pieces, 
but do not chop fine, and season with salt and pepper. Boil 
the broth down to 1 pt, put a layer of meat in a mold 
with some slices of hard-boiled eggs, then more chicken and 
eggs, seasoning to taste, then pour in the broth, and set 
away to get cold. Another way instead of boiling down, 
the broth, is to thicken it with bread crumbs, or 1 tablesp 
clear gelatine dissolved in a little hot water. — [K. S., la. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Dress and joint a chicken, and let it simmer slowly, closely 
covered, in 1 qt hot water, with 2 stalks celery, 1 bay leaf, 
1 slice of onion, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of 
curry. When the chicken is tender, remove from the liquid 
and place on a hot platter. Stir into the liquid 1 beaten 
egg, V2 cup cream, or 1 tablesp butter, and 1 tablesp flour, 
and let boil up, then pour over the chicken and serve hot. 
The platter may be garnished with a border of hot mashed 
potatoes, and edged with parsley. — [Mrs. E. J. C, Mass. 

Chicken Soup with Dumplings 

Dress and cut up a chicken, and put on to boil in plenty 
of cold water, adding salt to taste. Let boil long and slowly, 
and about one hour before serving add 1 pt carrots, peeled 
and sliced fine, and ^^ hour later 1 qt potatoes, peeled and 
sliced also, an onion, if liked, and ^ hour later dumplings 
made as follows. Put V2 cup butter in a frying pan and when 
hot add % cup flour, and let cook about 10 minutes, stirring 
vigorously, but do not let it brown. Then add some of the 
chicken broth, a little at a time, to convert the mass into a 
smooth ball which will free entirely from the pan. Remove 
from the fire, and when cool add 1 or 2 beaten eggs, and 
mix well. Drop into the boiling soup by spoonsful and boil 
steadily about 15- or 20 minutes. — [Mrs. A. P., Neb. 



170 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Hot Tamales 

Boil a chicken until very tender, remove bones and chop 
meat fine. To each lb meat add 1 medium sized tomato and 
onion chopped fine, salt and red pepper to taste, and moisten 
to the consistency of mush with the chicken broth. Heat 
the remainder of the liquor to boiling, stir in cornmeal to 
make a little stiffer than ordinary mush, and cook thoroughly. 
Take nice, fresh corn husks and soak in warm water until 
soft. Then spread a half-inch layer of mush on each husk, 
and put a good spoonful of the meat mixture on that, and 
roll up so that the meat is covered by the mush and the 
whole is nicely wrapped in the husks. Turn in the ends 
and tie tightly with twine, and steam ^/^ hour. Serve in 
the husks. Nice tamales can be made in the same way 
with either fresh beef or fresh pork. The neck of beef is 
best, as it has the right proportion of fat and lean, and the 
shoulder of pork is good, adding a little more fat to it. > 

Fried Guinea-Hen 

Select a nice, fat guinea-hen weighing about 3 lbs, clean 
and wash thoroughly in cold water, and put in a kettle over 
the fire with scarcely enough cold water to cover, adding 1 
teasp salt and 1 tablesp vinegar, after the hen has boiled 
1 hour. When tender joint and cut in pieces of convenient 
size, and fry brown on both sides in butter. Remove from 
the frying pan to platter, add 1 cup thick sweet cream to 
the gravy in the pan, season to taste, let boil up, and serve. — 
[Mrs. C. E. D., N. Y. 

Roast Turkey 

Having properly dressed and stuffed the turkey, rub entire 
surface with salt, spread breast, wings and legs with butter, 
rubbed until creamy and mixed with flour, and dredge bottom 
of pan with flour. Place in hot oven, and when flour on 
turkey begins to brown, reduce heat, baste with fat in pan, 
and add 2 cups boiling water. Continue basting every 15 
minutes until turkey is cooked, which will require about 3 
hours for a 10-lb turkey. For basting, use i^ cup butter 
melted in V2 cup boiling water in which the giblets were 
cooked, and after this is used baste with fat in pan. During 
cooking, turn turkey frequently, that it may brown evenly. 
To prepare gravy: As soon as turkey is removed from pan 
pour off liquid, from which skim 6 tablesp fat, return fat 
to pan, brown with 1 or 2 tablesp flour, and pour on gradually 
the remaining liquor, to which the giblets, finely chopped, 
have been added, and cook 5 minutes. Remove string and 
skewers from turkey, and garnish with parsley or celery tips 
before serving. 



GOOSE, DUCK AND RABBIT 171 



Roast Goose 

Dress and wash thoroughly, and half fill with a dressing 
prepared as follows: Boil and chop fine 1 doz onions and 
mix well with an equal quantity of bread crumbs; add 1 
teasp sage, salt, and 1 level teasp pepper. Bake in a hot 
oven, basting frequently. When done skim the fat from 
the gravy in the pan, add the liquid from the boiled giblets, 
and also the giblets chopped fine, thicken with a little flour, 
and season o taste. Serve goose with apple sauce. — [S. B., 
N. Y. — A very nice dressing for goose is boiled sauerkraut, 
seasoned with pepper. — [Mrs. J. H., Minn. 

Boiled or Roasted Duck 

A delicious flavor is imparted to boiled duck by boiling 
with it 1 large onion, 1 tablesp vinegar, and about i/^ teasp 
sage, besides salt and pepper. When tender, remove the 
duck, boil down the liquor, skim off the fat, thicken with a 
little flour browned in a pan with some butter, return the 
duck to the gravy, and let simmer a few minutes. To roast, 
if the duck is very fat or old, parboil it first, with a pinch 
of baking soda, then stuff with any preferred d«*essing, (the 
English use raisins, prunes or apples in the dressing), pin 
a few thin slices of salt pork across the breast with wooden 
toothpicks, and baste often. Onions, sage and salt pork 
combine very nicely with the duck flavor. Another nice way 
is to joint, season with salt, pepper and sage, roll in flour, 
and put in layers in a small pan, with minced onion and bits 
of butter between, ending with a layer of onions, bread crumbs 
and butter. Then fill the pan half full with water or milk, 
cover closely, and bake about 2 hours, removing the upper 
pan during the last ^/^ hour, to brown nicely. — [A. G., Mass. 

Baked Jack Rabbit 

If "jack" is old, after dressing, parboil for 3 to 5 minutes, 
adding about 1 teasp soda to the hot water, and then drain. 
Fasten slices of salt pork across the back of the rabbit, with 
•wooden toothpicks. This imparts a good flavor and prevents 
the drying out of the meat. Season and dredge well with 
flour, and put a few bits of butter around the rabbit in the 
pan, adding a very little water, and about 1 tablesp vinegar. 
Baste often. When done thicken the gravy with a little 
flour. — [Mrs. W. H., Kan. 

Curried Rabbit 

Wash and joint the rabbit and dredge each piece with 
flour. Put the gpod trimmings and a few scraps of meat 



172 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



with 2 large onions, 1 carrot, sliced, a small pinch of herbs, 
6 pepper corns, and 1 tahlesp curry powder in a saucepan 
with enough cold water to cover, and simmer for 1^ hours, 
and then strain off the liquor. Fry 1 small minced onion 
a light brown in 1 tablesp drippings, add 1 tablesp curry 
paste, and stir over the fire about 10 minutes, then add the 
stock, and when it has come to a boil, draw it to the side 
and let it simmer. The sauce may be thickened with a 
little flour. While this is simmering prepare the rabbit as 
follows. Fry the flour-dredged joints brown in a little 
drippings, with 1 onion, then add to the curry sauce, and 
let stand on the back of the range to simmer very slowly 
about 1 hour. Just before serving add a little lemon juice, 
and pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot, with boiled rice 
and red currant jelly. — [M. L. D., Scotland. 

Stewed Rabbit 

Dress and clean a couple of young rabbits, joint them, 
and put into a stew pan with 2 large Spanish onions, cut 
small; add enough milk to cover, season with white pepper, 
cover closely, and stew very slowly until tender, then season 
with salt, add butter to the gravy, and thicken with flour. 
If any of this dish is left over dip each piece in beaten 
egg, roll in bread crumbs or cornmeal, season with salt, 
pepper and a little grated lemon rind, and fry in hot drip- 
pings until nicely browned on both sides. Serve hot with 
the gravy seasoned with lemon juice and cayenne pepper, 
or a little catsup. Young rabbits are also nice cooked with 
green peas. Joint and put in a stew pan with a slice of lean 
ham, cut in small pieces, 1 tablesp butter, 1 or 2 spring 
onions, a small sprig of parsley, and 1 qt fresh green peas. 
Dredge in some flour, pour in a little milk, and let come 
to a boil, then draw to the back of the stove and let stew 
slowly until rabbit and peas are tender. Just before serving 
season with salt and a very little sugar. — [M. L. D., Scotland. 

Baked Coon 

The raccoon which makes free with the farmer's corn gets 
very fat in the fall, on corn, apples and clover, and makes 
delicious eating, though often thrown away because of the 
prejudice that many people have against wild meat. First 
skin the coon carefully, then remove the layer of fat, which 
is often an inch thick, right under the skin. This fat would 
give the meat a disagreeable, oily taste, if left on, but it is 
nice and white, and can be tried out the same as leaf lard, 
and used for soap. Thoroughly wash the dressed coon in 
cold water and soak over night in cold water with 1 tablesp 
salt added to each gallon water. Bake the same as veal. 



OPOSSUM AND VENISON 173 



If the coon is old, as shown by large size, dark meat, and 
stiff hard bones and joints, it should be parboiled from 1 
to 2 hours, before roasting. — [I. R. N., Me. 

"'Possum and Sweet 'Taters" 

Pour a large kettleful of hot water in a convenient vessel, 
add a small shovel of ashes, and then put the 'possum in 
this, but do not have the water as hot as for scalding chickens. 
Turn the 'possum around until the fur is loosened, and you 
will have no trouble in skinning him perfectly clean. Remove 
head, feet and entrails, wash thoroughly in cold water, salt in 
and outside, and let hang over night. In the morning wash 
again and put in a baking pan with a little water. Cover 
closely with another pan, and put it over the fire. When 
tender remove the top pan and put the 'possum in the oven to 
brown. Dust with black pepper and baste with lard. While 
it is baking, peel potatoes, cut them in thick slices, and put 
them in a skillet over the fire with salt and a little water and 
lard. Cover, and let steam until tender. By that time the 
'possum will be nicely brown. Turn the prepared potatoes 
over him, return to the oven, and when nicely brown, put 
the 'possum on a platter, arrange the potatoes around him, 
and serve. — [Mrs. S. J. S., Ala. 

Fried Venison with Gravy 

Cut venison into medium thick slices, hack it criss-cross 
with a butcher's knife on both sides, roll in flour, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and fry in hot drippings until evenly 
browned on both sides. Put the steak on a warm platter 
and add V2 cup milk and cream mixed to the gravy in the 
frying pan and a very little flour to thicken slightly. Let boil 
up once, and then pour over the steak, and serve at once. — 
[Mrs. B. H., Ore. 

Bread Dressing 

To 1 qt bread crumbs add 1 onion, chopped fine, salt, pepper 
and sage to taste, 1 or 2 beaten eggs, and fatty meat liquor 
to moisten. — [Mrs. W. H. B., Cal. 

Oyster Dressing 

Mix together 1 qt stale bread crumbs, 1 pt finely chopped 
oysters, 1 beaten egg, 2 tablesp melted butter, 1 teasp herbs, 
and milk enough to moisten. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 



When roasting beef or pork, add some thick slices of raw 
carrot. They impart a delicious fiavor to the meat and 
gravy. — [Mrs. B. L. G.. Ore. 



174 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Sauces for Me&t^ Poultry &nd Game 

Some Appropriate Combinations 

Roast pork with apple sauce. 

Roast lamb with mint sauce. 

Roast beef with horseradish, piquant or Flemish sauce. 

Roast mutton Vv'ith stewed gooseberries. 

Roast chicken with currant jelly. 

Roast goose with apple sauce. 

Roast turkey with cranberry, chestnut, grape or plum sauce. 

Roast duck with olive sauce. 

Roast venison with currant jelly. 

Boiled mutton with caper, or horseradish sauce. 

Boiled turkey v/ith oyster, celery or mushroom sauce. 

Boiled venison with currant-bread sauce. 

Broiled steak with mushroom, or hot horseradish sauce. 

Broiled mackerel with stewed gooseberries. 

Codfish balls with apple sauce. 

Sweetbreads, tenderloins or pigeon pie with mushroom. 

Game with currant-bread sauce. 

Chops, cutlets, or croquettes with tomato sauce. 

Baked or boiled fish with Qg^, parsley, oyster or tartare. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Melt 1/4 cup butter in a saucepan, add 2 tablesp flour, ^ 
teasp salt, a pinch of pepper, and when well blended, 1 pt hot 
water or hot clear soup stock. Stir rapidly until it thickens; 
then add another scant % cup butter, a little at a time, and 
continue stirring and cooking until the butter is all absorbed. 
This sauce can be made the basis of parsley, e^^, caper, 
lemon, celery, shrimp, mustard, oyster, lobster and other 
sauces. 

White Sauce 

Melt 2 rounding tablesp butter in a saucepan, adding the 
same quantity flour, and stirring until free from lumps. Then 
add 1 pt hot milk, pouring in less than half at first, and 
when it thickens rubbing and beating until entirely free from 
lumps. Then add the remainder of the milk, a very little 
pepper and y^ teasp salt, and let it boil up again. Half the 
milk may be replaced by clear soup stock, or cream may be 
used instead of milk, if a cream sauce is desired. White 
sauce may be used instead of drawn butter sauce, in any of 
the variations of drawn butter sauce, if a less rich sauce 
is desired. 



SAUCES FOR POULTRY AND GAME 17; 



Brown Sauce 

Melt -- rounding tablesp butter in a saucepan, adding the 
same quantity of flour, and stirring until nicely browned, but 
not burned. Then add 1 pt hot, dark soup stock, Vz teasp 
salt, a little pepper, and, if not dark enough, caramel (burnt 
sugar) enough to give the desired color. Cook until it thick- 
ens, rubbing out all lumps. The sauce will be better flavored 
if pot herbs, a bit of onion and a few peppercorns are added 
to the stock in its making. Brown sauce is made the basis 
of mushroom, chestnut, olive, peanut, Flemish, Cumberland, 
currant jelly, brown sauce piquant and various other sauces. 

Onion Sauce 

Boil 3 large onions until very tender; drain, and rub 
through a sieve; add to V2 pt white sauce made with cream, 
and serve with lamb or mutton chop. 

Mint Sauce 

Chop enough leaves and tender tops of mint to fill 1 cup 
(or use half the quantity of the dried leaves). Add 14 cup 
sugar, and V2 cup not-too-strong vinegar. Prepare an hour 
before using, to allow the vinegar to absorb the flavor of 
the mint. 

Tomato Sauce 

To 1 pt stewed tomatoes add a small chopped onion, a sprig 
of parsley, a bay leaf, blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste. 
While they are simmering for 15 minutes, melt 3 level tablesp 
butter and rub into it 1 tablesp flour. Strain the tomatoes 
through a sieve, add to the flour and butter, and boil until it 
thickens, stirring continually. 

Hot Horseradish Sauce 

This sauce is nice for hot baked, fried, or boiled meats. 
To make it, melt 1 tablesp butter in a saucepan and stir in 1 
tablesp flour. Add 1 cup milk, or better, 1 cup chicken or veal 
broth, and boil for 5 minutes. Beat the yolk of 1 egg, add 
1 scant teasp each of sugar and made mustard, and V2 cup 
sweet cream. Draw the pan to the back of the stove and 
add the egg and milk, stirring until almost at the boiling point. 
Then add Vz cup grated horseradish and 1 tablesp vinegar or 
lemon juice, and simmer for 2 or 3 minutes. Use at once. 

Celery Sauce 

Clean and chop very fine 2 large heads of celery, reserving 
a few of the stalks to cut into inch lengths. Cover with cold 
water and cook until the celery is quite tender and the water 



176 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



nearly boiled away. Pick out the long pieces, and add 1 pt 
rich milk or cream, 1 level teasp salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Rub together I heaping tablesp each of butter 
and flour, add the beaten yolk of 1 egg, and stir into the 
milk. Let simmer for 10 minutes, adding the long pieces of 
celery, and serve with chicken or turkey. The egg is not 
essential, but gives a better color to the sauce. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Shell 1 pt chestnuts and drop into boiling water 5 minutes. 
Slip off the skins, split open, and cook in salted water or stock 
until very tender. Rub through a sieve and add to the brown 
pan gravy from roast turkey. To make the sauce independent 
of the turkey gravy, brown 1 tablesp flonr in 2 tablesp butter, 
pour in the water or stock in which the nuts were boiled, 
adding the mashed nuts, pepper and salt to season. 

Made Mustard 

Mix together 2 tablesp mustard, 1 teasp each of sugar, flour 
and salt, and i/4 teasp pepper. Rub smooth in ^ cup cold 
vinegar, add ^/^ cup boiling water, and stir and cook until it 
thickens. 

Mustard Sauce 

For deviled turkey, salt fish, etc., this sauce is made by add- 
ing 3 tablesp made mustard, and a dash of cayenne to 1 pt 
drawn butter sauce. — [Mrs. A. B., Col. 

Spanish Sauce 

Peel and chop fine 2 or 3 large, ripe tomatoes and 2 onions, 
add 3 or 4 green chillis, seeds removed, and chopped fine, and 
season with salt, and a little vinegar. This is usually served 
with barbacued meat. — [Mrs. L. J., Cal. 

Fish Sauce 

Cook 3 or 4 ripe tomatoes with 1 tablesp butter, % an onion, 
cut fine, and salt and pepper to taste. When done rub through 
a sieve and gradually stir in 1 cup boiling milk. Thicken with 
a little flour. Pour around the fish on the platter and place in 
the oven for about 10 minutes. — [Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Vinegar Cream Sauce 

Put 2 cups vinegar in a double boiler, mix 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 cup sweet cream, % cup mustard, and 1 teasp salt, and 
pour this mixture into the vinegar and let come to a boil. Then 
put in jar and seal. This will keep well in a cold place and 
is nice with cold meats, fish, etc. — [G. W. J. 




PRIZE WINNING PARAGON TOMATOES. 




FINE CELERY, PREPARED FOR SERVING. 




PARSNIPS EXHIBITED AT NEW YORK FAIR. 



! 


< 




^ 


J 


^ 


j^^^^^sk 


3 


^1 


"% 


n^s 


^^ 



CAULIFLOWER GROWN ON LONG ISLAND, N. Y. 




Potatoes, Vegetables and Salads 

AREFUL cooking of vegetables and judi- 
cious mixing of salads are not the least part 
of culinary proficiency. Since vegetables 
are the most healthful of our food stuffs, 
they should be served freely, but in such 
shape that they may be easy of digestion 
and palatable. That responsibility rests 
with the cook. Salads are considered of less importance 
in food value, but as a relish they find a welcome place 
on the menu. It takes an "artist" to properly blend the 
ingredients for a salad dressing — quantities can only be 
suggested in a recipe — the rest is "up to" the cook. 

Potato Ways 

Do not always serve potatoes in the same old way. It would 
seem to be a very simple matter to boil a potato, and yet 
there is a proper and improper way of doing even this. First 
wash potatoes, then peel and drop in cold water, and if the 
tubers are old, let them stand in fresh cold water for an hour 
or two, to draw out the sharp flavpr. Use an agate or por- 
celain-lined vessel. Cover the potatoes with fresh boiling 
water, add salt, cover closely, and boil briskly until done. Test 
with a sharp steel fork. When done, drain off water and put 
the pot on back of the stove to let the potatoes dry 
off, then cover with a clean napkin, to keep warm, but do not 
delay the serving any longer than necessary. When potatoes 
are to be boiled "in their jackets" — that is, v/ithout peeling — 
wash them clean and follow the above directions. When done 
put them in a hot oven a few minutes to dry. To bake pota- 
toes, wash, place in a hot oven, and prick the skins with a 
sharp fork, to allow the steam to escape. Potatoes are also 
nice when baked with the roast meat. Peel and cut in uniform' 
size, place around the roast during the last three-quarter hour, 
and baste potatoes along with the roast meat. 

Boiled potatoes for frying should not be too soft and mealy; 
cut in thin slices and fry in very hot drippings, turning so that 
they may be browned evenly; but do not have too many pota- 
toes in the pan at once, and be sure to have the fat hot, and 
fry quickly, ^otherwise the potatoes will soak grease and turn 

177 



178 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

out unpalatable aiid unwholesome. To fry raw potatoes slice 
them any thickness desired (for potato chips they should be 
cut very thin), dry thoroughly on a clean towel, and drop in 
smoking, hot fat, the same as doughnuts, turning to brown on 
both sides. Do not put too many potatoes in at once, as this 
would reduce the temperature of the fat and cause the pota- 
toes to soak grease. When done skim out the slices, lay them 
out on a piece of soft paper to soak up the superfluous fat, 
sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. They should be nice and 
crisp. Another way is to peel the potatoes and then peel 
them again, so as to have a long spiral ribbon, and bake these 
in deep hot fat. A very nice dish is made of diced potatoes, 
salt pork and onions. Cut the pork in pieces, fry brown, and 
then add the potatoes and onions, and let all brown together. 
To prepare mashed potatoes, mash the potatoes after boiling 
and draining, add hot milk and butter, and beat until light. 
If desired, the yolk of an egg may be added, and a little 
more milk, the mixture turned into a buttered pudding dish, 
rolled cracker or bread crumbs sprinkled over the top, with 
dots of butter, and put in the oven to brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Slice cold, boiled potatoes, put a layer in a buttered pudding 
dish, then a layer of cracker or bread crumbs, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, dot with butter, and so proceed until the 
■dish is full, topping off with bread crumbs and butter. Put 
In milk enough to come almost to the top of the potatoes, and 
bake brown. Raw potatoes can be treated the same way, and 
if liked, some finely cut onions added, and salt pork fried 
brown; add either milk or clear soup stock for liquid. — [Mrs. 
C. G., N. D. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Cut large baked potatoes in two, lengthwise and scoop out 
the interior, keeping the shells whole. Mash the potatoes and 
to each one add 1 teasp grated cheese, 1 tablesp cream, and 
salt, pepper and butter to taste. Whip until light, heap into 
the shells, and return to oven to brown. Serve with a garnish 
of lettuce and hard-boiled eggs. — [Mrs. G. L. S., N. Y. 

Potato Iioaf 

To 1 cup chopped suet add 2 qt chopped potatoes, 2 large 
onions, cut fine, 1 cup meat gravy or soup stock, or milk and 
butter mixed, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover, and bake till done. Then remove the 
<jover and brown the top. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 



SWEET POTATOES AND CORN 179 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Mash cold sweet potatoes and to each qt add 1 teasp salt, 2 
tablesp sugar, 1 beaten egg, and scant i/^ cup rich milk, with 
a very little flour — just enough to handle. Shape into small 
biscuits, roll in flour, and fry brown on both sides in hot 
butter. — [Miss F. E. S., Ga. 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 

Peel large, short, sweet potatoes, and cut in half length- 
wise; scrape out one-third of the potatoes, and fill the cavities 
with pork sausage meat, then lay the halves together again, 
and fasten at each end with a wooden toothpick. Put in a 
baking pan with a little water, and bake until tender, with a 
moderate fire, basting occasionally. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

To 2 cups sugar add 1 cup water, and boil until it syrups, 
the same as for preserves, then remove from the fire and stir 
in 1 heaping tablesp butter. Slice boiled sweet potatoes into 
a buttered baking pan of the proper size, pour the syrup over 
them to almost cover, put extra bits of butter about on top 
of them, and bake about 1 hour, or longer, basting occasion- 
ally by tilting the pan and dipping up some of the liquid. Be 
careful not to let the top get dry. Serve hot in the pan in which 
it is baked. — [Mrs. P. A. D., Mo. 

Fried Corn 

Cut tender corn from the cob and fry in a little sweet butter, 
just enough to keep the corn from sticking to the pan, stirring 
often. When nicely browned, season with salt and pepper, and 
add a little sweet cream. Serve immediately. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Baked Corn 

To 1 pt green corn cut from the cob, add 1 qt milk, 3 beaten 
eggs, 1 heaping tablesp butter, and salt to taste. Sprinkle a 
buttered pudding dish with cracker crumbs, pour in the corn 
mixture, cover with cracker crumbs, dot with butter, and bake 
slowly 11/^ hours. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Boiled Green Com 

Freshly gathered corn is best for boiling. It loses its 
sweetness if you wait too long after picking. Strip off the 
husks and silk, cut off the stem ends, and plunge into briskly 
boiling water to cover. Do not add any salt. Cover the kettle 



180 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



and let boil fast, 20 minutes. Pile the corn up on a platter, 
cover with a clean towel, and serve at once, or cut from the 
cob, add pepper, salt, butter and a little cream. — [L. A. K., 111. 

Dried Corn 

Cook sweet corn on the cob in salted water about 20 min- 
utes, then cut from the cob, spread on shallow plates, and dry 
very slowly in a rather cool oven. Put the dried corn in sacks 
and place in a warm, dry place. If in about 10 days the corn 
shows no signs of moisture it will keep well, but if any mois- 
ture remains in the corn, it will mildew, V/hen wanted for 
use soak 1 pt dried corn in cold water over night, and if 
wanted for dinner, put over the fire about ten o'clock with a 
small piece of lean fresh pork, or salt pork, 1 doz potatoes, 
peeled and cut in small pieces, and water enough to cook. — 
[Mrs. M. E. B., Wis. 

Salted Com and Beans 

Cook corn on the cob, cut off and salt down in a glass 
jar, allowing 1 cup salt to 4 cups corn. This will make 
its own brine, but if in 2 or 3 days there is not sufficient brine 
to cover, make a strong brine and cover, and weight down. 
When wanted for use put the desired quantity of corn in clear 
cold water, and put it on the back of the range where it will 
get lukewarm, and let stand 3 or 4 hours, after which drain, 
and if not too salt, add cream and butter, and cook. Beans, 
when fresh and tender, can be put down in salt the same 
way, only do not cook the beans first. — [Mrs. A. H., Col. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

There are many different ways of stewing tomatoes. I do 
not like my stewed tomatoes mixed with a lot of mushy bread 
or cracker crumbs. Peel ripe tomatoes, or use the peeled 
canned tomatoes. Boil until tender, but no longer, and do 
not add any seasoning until just before serving, and then add 
pepper, salt and butter, and thicken with a very little flour 
mixed to a smooth paste with cold water. Boil up once, and 
lastly add a very little sugar — not enough to make it sweet, 
but just enough to kill the sour taste. Never boil tomatoes 
any longer than absolutely necessary, and serve at once. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Creamed Tomatoes 

Let 1 qt canned or fresh tomatoes come to a boil, then add 
1 heaping tablesp each flour and sugar, 1 teasp salt, and a 
pinch of soda, all mixed well with a little cold milk to a smooth 
paste. Let boil up once, then add 1 cup thick, sweet cream, 
and when heated through, serve at once. — [Mrs. A. B., Ore. 



'OMATOES AND CARROTS ISl 



Escalloped Tomatoes 

Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered pudding dish with bread 
crumbs, then fill up with ripe, peeled and sliced tomatoes, 
seasoning each layer with butter, pepper, salt and some minced 
onions, if liked. Cover thickly with bread crumbs, dot liber- 
ally with butter, and bake. — [E. T., N. Y. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Either ripe or green tomatoes may be used. Peel, cut cross- 
wise in half-inch slices, dip in beaten egg, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and a very little sugar, dip in flour and fry in hot 
butter. — [Mrs. E. A., N. H. 

Scrambled Tomiatoes 

Peel V2 doz medium sized tomatoes, cut in small pieces, 
and put in a saucepan with butter size of an egg, salt, and a 
little pepper. Boil till soft, then stir in 4 beaten eggs, cook 2 
or 3 minutes longer, and serve at once. — [R. M. P., Mass. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Cut slice from stem end of tomatoes, remove pulp, and mix 
up with some minced onion, bread crumbs, beaten egg, and 
pepper and salt, and fill into the tomato shells. Put a lump of 
butter on each tomato, and bake in a buttered pudding dish. 
Another way is to mix with the tomato pulp some hulled corn, 
or rice, or macaroni with grated cheese. — [R. M. P., Mass. 

Baked Tomatoes and Onions 

Peel and cut up 6 medium sized green tomatoes and 3 
onions, add 1 qt water (or a litle less), 1 tabiesp each salt, 
sugar, and butter, 2 tabiesp vinegar, and % teasp pepper. 
Boil until tender, then turn into a buttered pudding dish, 
cover with 1 pt bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and 
bake. — [Mrs. H. M. S., Pa. 

Carrots 

Peel and cut carrots in very small pieces and put over the 
fire with a little water, salt and butter. Cook until tender, 
and when most all the water has cooked off, thicken the re- 
mainder with a little flour rubbed to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, and add a very little sugar. Onions may be stewed with 
the carrots, but in this case omit the sugar, and add pepper. — » 
IE. K., Mass. 



18 2 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Carrot Fritters 

Mash 2 boiled carrots, add 2 beaten eggs, 3 tablesp flour 
moistened with a little cream, and 1 teasp sugar. Drop by 
spoonsful in hot fiat and fry brown, like doughnuts. Serve 
hot and just before serving squeeze a little lemon or orange 
juice over each fritter, and dust with powdered sugar. — [S. 
E. W., O. 

Carrots and Peas 

Boil 1 pt carrots cut in dice, in enough water to cover, and 
after 10 minutes add 1 pt shelled green peas, and boil all 
together until tender. When done the water will be greatly 
reduced. Then add V2 cup cream, a little butter, pepper and 
salt, and thicken with a little corn starch or flour. Let boil 
2 or 3 minutes longer and serve. — [Mrs. H. H., Cal. 

Smothered Carrots and Onions 

Cut salt pork in small cubes and fry light brown, then add 
1 doz onions, and as many tender carrots, cut fine. Seasoa 
well with salt and pepper, add 1 cup water, cover, and cook 
1 hour. — [Mrs. A. B., Me. 

Pickled Carrots 

Wash and scrape carrots and cook in salted water until 
tender, then cut in pieces of convenient size, and cover with 
hot vinegar, which may be sweetened and spiced, if liked. 
Let stand in this vinegar 2 days, before using. — [Mrs. L. A. 
G., Me. 

Minced Beets 

Remove the greens and wash the beets clean, but do not 
peel nor cut off the root or stem ends. Plunge into boiling 
water and boil rapidly until tender, then plunge into cold 
water. The skins can easily be slipped off after this treatment. 
Slice or chop, discarding the coarse and fibrous parts, and for 
1 qt beets allow 2 tablesp butter, 2 tablesp sugar, salt to 
taste, and plenty of pepper, 2 to 4 tablesp vinegar, (according 
to taste), and 1 cup thin, sweet cream, poured over just 
before serving. Serve hot. — [L. R., Ind. 

Creamed Beets 

Cook until tender, then peel and chop coarsely. Add 1 cup 
cream to 1 qt beets, and season with salt and pepper. A little 
vinegar and sugar may be added, also some butter, and the 
creamed beets baked in the oven about 15 or 20 minutes. — 
EA. E. R., N. H. 



TURNIPS, PARSNIPS AND PEAS 185 



Creamed or Mashed Turnips 

Peel turnips, then cut up in small dice, discarding all tough 
and stringy parts. Cover with cold water, add salt, and boil 
until tender, then drain. Prepare a cream sauce of butter and 
milk thickened with a little flour, add the boiled diced turnips 
with salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once, or mash the 
turnips after draining, and add pepper and salt and butter to 
taste. — [A. G., Mass. 

Creamed Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnip, slice lengthwise in inch pieces, 
add boiling water to cover, salt, and boil till tender. If there 
is too much liquid pour a little of it off and add 1 cup milk, 
a little butter, salt and pepper, with a dash of sugar, if liked, 
and flour to thicken a little. — [Mrs. E. D., Ida. 

Fried or Baked Parsnip 

Boil 4 large parsnips until tender, then drain and mash, 
add salt and pepper, butter the size of an egg, 3 beaten eggs, 
V2 cup sweet cream, and some bread crumbs to bind together, 
and fry like fritters, or bake in the oven. — [Mrs. G. McM., Cal. 

Steamed Green Peas 

Peas should be picked when young and tender, and cooked 
as soon after picking as possible, or they will lose flavor and 
sweetness. Pill a cheese cloth bag about two-thirds full of 
the shelled peas, and place in a colander, hung into a kettle 
of boiling water, and cover closely, but do not let the water 
touch the peas. Steam until done, which will take a little 
longer than boiling, but the peas will be much finer and 
sweeter in flavor, than when boiled in water. When done add 
plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve, at once. — [Mrs. 
J. I. M., N. H. 

Lima Beans 

Fresh lima beans should be cooked immediately after gath- 
ering. Shell and cook till tender in water barely enough to 
cover, allowing most of the water to boil away. Then add 
salt and pepper to taste, and 1 cup rich sweet cream, or some 
butter. — [Mrs. L. O. M.. O. 

Baked Peas 

This is a good recipe for the big, mealy peas. Parboil 1 qt 
ripe peas, then 4rain, and put in a bean pot with 1 lb salt. 



184 FARM AT^D HOME COOK BOOK 



pork, 1/^ teasp each pepper, salt, sugar and mustard, and enough, 
cold water to cover the peas. Bake about 8 hours. — [Mrs. L. 
A. G., Me. 

Mashed (dried) Peas or Beans 

Soak 1 qt dried peas or beans in plenty water over night. 
Next morning drain and put them in a kettle with boiling 
water and boil 1 hour, then drain, add fresh boiling water, 
and boil 3 hours, after which mash through a colander, add 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a little thyme. Serve with 
hrowned onions. Nice served with ham and sauerkraut. — 
^ [N. P., N. H. 

To Cook String Beans 

Cook immediately after gathering, wash and snap in small 
pieces and remove strings if there are any. Put on in cold 
water barely enough to cover, cover closely, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding a little butter or drippings and salt to 
taste. Another way is to boil them with salt pork. Do not 
use any more .water than necessary. — [A. G., Mass. 

Baked Beans 

Soak 1 qt white beans in cold water over night (15 or 16 
hours is none too long). Next morning drain, cover with cold 
water, boil ^/^ hour, then add a pinch of soda, and let boil, 
uncovered, until skins crack; then drain. Meanwhile boil 
% or % lb salt pork about 2 minutes, then cut deep gashes 
crisscross in the top fat of the pork, and put the pork and 
the parboiled beans in a bean pot, so that the cut pork will 
be even with the top of the beans; also put 1 small onion, 
peeled, in with the beans. In a large cup mix ^ teasp ground 
mustard, 1 teasp salt, and % teasp pepper, with ^/^ cup molas- 
ses (or less), thinned with some of the liquor in which the pork 
was cooked, pour over the beans, (the liquid should almost 
come to the top of beans), and bake slowly about 8 hours. 
Tomato juice can be added instead of meat liquor. The bean, 
pot should be of earthenware, and deep. If the liquid evap- 
orates too rapidly, add a very little hot water from time to 
time. During the last half hour increase the heat so that the 
top of the beans and the pork may brown nicely. Long soak- 
ing in cold water and long, slow baking are essential to suc- 
cess. — [A. G., Mass. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Peel large cucumbers, cut in half lengthwise, and remove 
;seeds and soft pulp. Prepare a filling of 1 cup each minced 



SQUASH, CELERY AND CELERIAC 18 S 

cold chicken and bread crumbs, 1 teasp each minced parsnip 
and onion, 1 tablesp melted butter, 2 tablesp cream, and salt 
and pepper to taste. If filling seems too stiff, add more 
cream. Pack this filling heaping full into the cucumber boats. 
Place side by side in a baking dish, and pour around them 
some well seasoned stock or gravy, or a little hot water and 
butter. Cover and bake V2 hour, then uncover and brown. 
Remove the cucumbers to a heated platter, thicken the gravy 
in the pan with a little browned fiour, pour around the cucum- 
bers, and serve at once. — [Mrs. E. E. S., Pa. 

Fried or Baked Squash 

Peel tender squash, cut in strips as long and thick as the 
finger, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll in flour, and fry 
brown in hot drippings, then cover and cook slowly until 
tender. — [E. E. K., Me. 

Peel a round squash, cut a piece from the stem end, and 
remove the seeds and stuff the cavity with a filling made of 
bread crumbs, hard boiled eggs, cold ham, or some other kind 
of meat, and 1 beaten egg. Dot the top with butter, return 
the cover to the squash, put in baking pan with just enough 
water to keep from burning, and bake until tender. Squash 
is also nice cooked with a roast of meat, same as potatoes. — 
[Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Escalloped Squash 

Peel, remove seeds, and boil and mash squash. When cool 
add 2 beaten eggs, i^ cup milk, butter, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Pour into a buttered baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake. Serve hot. — [M. B., 111. 

Cooked Celery 

Trim and cut celery stalks in small pieces, reserving the 
tender inner parts to serve raw, and the greens for soup. 
Boil until tender in no more water than necessary, then season 
with salt and pepper, add butter and milk, and slightly thicken 
the gravy with a little flour. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Celeriac 

Not all housewives are acquainted with the turnip-rooted 
celery, or celeriac, which is generally used for soups and 
stews. Here is another way. Pare and slice the root, add a 
medium sized onion, sliced thin, and boil till tender, then 
add a cream sauce, and let simmer on back of the range a 
few minutes, until ready to serve. — [Miss M. W., Mass. 



186 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



To Cook Asparagus 

The usual way is to cook asparagus uncut, in water to cover, 
but in this way you are obliged to cook the tender heads just 
.as long as the tough stalks. This is my way: Cut off all the 
tops and an inch or so of the tender top stalk, and lay these 
aside, then peel the bottom stalks, cut in one-inch lengths, and 
stew slowly ^/^ hour, adding a small pinch of soda, then add 
the tops and boil 10 or 15 minutes longer. Season with pepper 
and salt, and add butter and cream, — [Mrs. C. J., Ct. 

Egg Plant Ways 

Peel ess plant and cut in slices i/^-inch thick, sprinkle 
lightly with salt and let stand V2 hour, after which dip them 
in beaten egs, then in flour, and fry brown on both sides. — 
IMiss A. E. H., Pa. 

Cut egg plants in half, scrape out the inside and put in a 
saucepan with 2 tablesp minced ham, water to cover, and boil 
until soft then drain, add 2 tablesp bread crumbs, 1 tablesp 
butter, y2 an onion, minced, % teasp salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Stuff each half of the egg plant with this mixture, 
top off with 1 teasp butter, and bake 15 minutes. — [Mrs. K. 
R. F., Tex. 

Pare and cut an egg plant in slices l^-inch thick, cover 
with water, add a little salt, and stew until tender. Then 
drain, mash with a fork, add 2 beaten eggs, 4 tablesp sweet 
cream, a small pinch cayenne pepper, and flour enough to make 
a batter that will drop from a spoon, sifted with 1 teasp 
baking powder. Drop by spoonsful into hot lard or drippings, 
and fry brown on both sides. Serve with powdered sugar. — 
[Mrs. J. J. R. 

Boiled or Fried Rutabaga 

Peel and slice rutabaga, add water to cover, salt and pepper, 
1 tablesp lard, and a small pinch soda. Cook until tender, 
then remove cover, and fry brown. — [C. O., N. D. 

Peel and slice rutabaga i/^-inch thick, and boil in slightly 
salted water until tender; then drain, roll in flour, and fry in hot 
drippings, adding salt and pepper to taste. — [Mrs. L. S., Minn. 

Baked Salsify or Oyster Plant 

Scrape and slice the salsify and cook till tender in slightly 
salted water. Then put in buttered baking pan alternate layers 
of bread crumbs and salsify, seasoning each layer with salt, 
pepper and butter. Fill the pan half full of sweet milk, and 
then add sweet cream until nearly full. Cover the top with 
bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake in a hot oven. A 
very little sugar added to the salsify is liked by some. — [Mrs. 
G. G., Mo. 



RADISHES, PEPPERS AND CABBAGE 187 



Stewed Radishes 

Wash and scrape 3 or 4 bunches white radishes, cut in 
small pieces, cover with water, add a little salt and sugar, boil 
until tender, then drain, mash and add a little butter and 
cream. We like this better than turnips. — [Mrs. P. H. J., Ore. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Remove seeds from 6 large, sweet peppers. Put over the 
fire in cold water, bring to the boiling point, and then drain. 
Repeat this twice. Prepare a filling of 1 cup each boiled rice, 
cold meat, chopped fine, and tomatoes, cut fine, and V2 cup 
bread crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and onion. Fill the 
parboiled peppers with this mixture, sprinkle the tops with 
bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake in brisk oven V2 
hour. Another way is to cut the parboiled peppers in slices, 
dip in a batter and fry brown on both sides. — [Mrs. D. D. 
P., Cuba. 

Creamed Raw Cabbage 

Select a solid and tender head of young cabbage and shave 
fine. Make a cream sauce of i/^ cup thick, sweet, or sour 
cream, 1 tablesp sugar, 1 or 2 tablesp vinegar, and 2 tablesp 
fresh fried ham drippings. Beat this until foamy, then pour 
over the shaved cabbage, adding salt and pepper to taste. Nice 
to serve with roast pork and mashed potatoes. — [Mrs. F. B., 
N. Y. 

Escalloped Cabbage 

Trim a nice, tender head of cabbage, cut in. quarters, and 
cook in slightly salted water about 20 minutes, then drain, 
chop fine, and mix with a dressing made of 4 tablesp butter, 
creamed with 4 tablesp flour, and 1 qt hot milk, stirring con- 
stantly, and when the flour is done add 6 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the cabbage 
and cream mixture into a buttered baking pan, sprinkle the 
top with bits of butter and bake in a quick oven about 15 min- 
utes. — [Mrs. H. J. H., Col. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Trim off the outer leaves and remove the heart from a fine 
head of tender young cabbage, so as to leave a shell of cabbage 
■about 1 inch thick. Fill the cavity with cold, chopped chicken, 
veal, pork or beef, mixed with a little cold chopped potatoes, 
if liked, also the beaten yolk of an egg, and seasoned well with 
salt and pepper. Cover with several crisp cabbage leaves well 
tucked in at the top, tie in cheese cloth, and boil 2 hours.— 
[Mrs. J. D. C, Cal. 



188 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Stewed Red Cabbage 

Trim a small head of red cabbage and shavo ^^ne. Put into 
a granite kettle 1 heaping tablesp lard or drippings, and when 
hot put in the shaved cabbage, and a small onion pierced with 
3 or 4 whole cloves, 1 teasp salt, 1 tablesp sugar, i/^ cup 
boiling water, and scant ^/4 cup vinegar. Cover closely and 
stew slowly about 2 hours, stirring often to prevent scorching. If 
it seems to get too dry add a little more boiling water. White 
cabbage may be prepared the same way, omitting the cloves 
and sugar, and adding Vz teasp caraway seeds, if that flavor 
is liked. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

Hot Slaw 

Put some drippings into a deep frying pan, and when hot 
add finely shaved raw cabbage, and mix thoroughly. When 
the fat has become well mixed with the cabbage, cover the 
pan closely and set on the side of the range to simmer slowly 
until tender. The steam will furnish sufficient moisture, but 
if there is danger of scorching, add a very little hot water. 
About 15 minutes before serving add pepper, salt and vinegar 
to taste. — [A. G., Mass. 

Stewed Cauliflower 

Select a nice, fresh head of cauliflower, break it apart, trim 
the stem ends carefully, and let stand a few minutes in cold, 
slightly salted water, then drain and put in a granite stew pan 
with cold, slightly salted water, and let boil till tender. It 
is a good plan to tie the cauliflower in a net, so that it can be 
lifted out of the boiling water when done, without breaking 
the flower. Prepare a cream sauce of milk and butter, thicken 
with a little flour, and season with salt and pepper. A beaten 
egg, may be added, if liked. Pour this over the cauliflower, 
and serve at once. — [Mrs. M. M. B., Mo. 

To Cook Sauerkraut 

Wash sauerkraut in cold water to freshen just right to 
taste, then put on 1 qt saukerkraut with V2 cup lard or drip- 
pings and a little water to prevent scorching. Cover closely and 
stew slowly until tender, adding a very little hot water if 
necessary. It is a mistake to wash the sauerkraut too much 
or to parboil it as this leaves nothing but a wilted, tasteless 
mass. Plenty of fat and slow boiling are necessary. Serve 
:with boiled or roast pork, and mashed potatoes. — [A. G., Mass. 



ONIONS AND SPINACH 189 



Creamed Onions 

Take young onions before they are full grown, cut off tops 
and roots, peel, and boil in slightly salted water until tender; 
then drain. Make a cream sauce of milk, butter and beaten 
egg, thickened with a little flour, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Cook until smooth, and then pour over the boiled 
onion3. When the onions are older and stronger, the first 
water, after boiling 5 minutes, should be poured off and the 
onions boiled in fresh water until tender. — [Mrs. G. W., N. C. 

Fried Spring Onions 

Fry a few slices of bacon or salt pork until well browned, 
then remove from the pan and put into the hot fat green 
onions, cut up into inch lengths. When the onions are well 
fried push them to one side of the pan and add about 1 
tablesp flour to the gravy, and when smooth add 1 pt boiling 
water. Mix well, boil 1 minute, then serve. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Baked Onions 

Peel large onions and boil 1 hour in slightly salted water, 
then drain and put them in a shallow buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, dot each onion with butter, 
pour a little milk in the pan, cover the onions with bread 
crumbS; and bake slowly 1 hour. Another way is to put 
alternate layers of onions and bread crumbs in a pudding dish, 
season with pepper, salt, and butter, and moisten with milk. — 
[N. P., N. H. 

Onion Gravy 

Peel and slice fine 2 onions and let them simmer in a pan 
with 3 or 4 tablesp lard or drippings, until tender, taking care 
not to burn. Then add 2 or 3 level tablesp flour, salt and pepper 
to taste, and 2 cups milk. Let come to a boil, then, add 1 
well-beaten egg. — [Mrs. H. A. S., Ala. 

Boiled or Baked Spinach 

Pick and wash «spinach carefully and boil aoout 15 or 20 
minutes. It will require very little water, if any, as greens 
boil down very much, and the water which clings to the leaves 
after washing is almost enough to cook them. When done 
pour in a colander to drain, chop lightly, and pick out all the 
tough stem ,parts. Return to the kettle with butter and salt 
and pepper to taste, or use the frying fat from ham. Heat 
thoroughly and serve at once with a garnish of hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced. Another way is to put the boiled spinach in a 



190 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



buttered baking disb, slice the hard-boiled eggs on top, cover 
with a cream sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, and pepper 
and salt, then with a layer of bread crumbs, dot with bits of 
butter, and bake until brown. — [A. G., Mass. 

Dandelion, Cowslip, and Dock 

The leaves, stalks and buds of cowslips can be used. Wash 
and pick over carefully, parboil about 10 minutes in boiling 
water, to which add V2 teasp soda, then drain, and boil until 
tender with some lean salt pork. Just before serving, add 
vinegar, salt and pepper. Dandelions should be picked before 
blossoming time. Wash, and discard the little stems or 
buds that would turn to blossoms, boil until tender, then drain 
and season with salt, pepper and butter. Use the leaves only 
of narrow dock, and prepare the same as cowslips. The addi- 
tion of a few horseradish leaves is an improvement. — [Mrs. 
G. M. N., N. Y. 

Swiss Chard 

When the leaves are large and plenty of stalk or stem, 
strip the leaves from the stems, and treat the latter as follows: 
Cut in short pieces and cook with a very little water until the 
stalks are tender and the water has almost all boiled away. 
Then pour over as much milk as you want soup, bring to a 
boil, thicken with a little cornstarch, add 1 or 2 well-beaten 
eggs, with seasoning to taste. This tastes like oyster soup. 
The greens can be boiled the same as spinach. — [Mrs. C. I. D., 
Cal. 

Beet Greens 

Cut V2 lb cold boiled ham in dice and fry in 1 tablesp butter 
with V2 an onion minced fine, then add 2 tablesp hot vinegar, 
and pour this sauce over beet greens which were boiled in hot 
salted water until tender, and then drained and chopped fine. 
Serve hot with poached eggs on top of the greens. — [Mrs. C. 
J. M., Neb. 

Okra Ways 

Cut the stems from 1 Qt okra and cut the pods into pieces 
% inch thick; add 1 pt tomatoes, and 1 cup corn cut from the 
cob, and cook until tender. Season with butter, salt and pep- 
per. Another way is to take the small tender pods of okra, 
stem and wash, and while wet, roll in flour, sprinkle with salt 
and fry in hot fat. For a stew put the okra on with enough 
hot water to cover, and when well done, drain, and season 
to taste with pepper, salt, butter and vinegar. — [A. G., Mass. 



SALAD DRESSINGS AND GARNISHES 191 



Gumbo is made by taking equal quantities of young okra 
chopped fine, ripe tomatoes peeled and chopped, 1 or 2 onions,, 
minced, a lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Add 
1 or 2 tablesp water if necessary, and stew until tender. — 
[Mrs. P. A. D., 111. 

This is the way I prepare okra. To 1 qt okra add 1 qt 
tomatoes, 6 onions, 3 green peppers, and 3 or 4 slices of bacon. 
Boil until done, season with salt and pepper. — [P. J. S., Tex. 

Peel onions under water to prevent the shedding of tears. 
To kill onion and cabbage odor while cooking, set a small, 
open dish of vinegar on the back of the stove. — [A. G., Mass. 

Salad Garnishes 

Almost anything in the line of fresh greens, potatoes, vege- 
tables, fruits, fish, meat, nuts, etc., can be dished up as salad 
and make a very presentable as well as palatable dish, with 
the aid of a nice salad dressing and garnishes. It is well to 
have some prepared salad dressing always ready to hand — 
stored in glass fruit jars it will keep some time in a cool place. 
If too thick, thin with cream. For garnishes use crisp leaves 
of lettuce, parsley, or celery, slices of lemon, red beets cut in 
fancy shapes, radishes, hard-boiled eggs, slices of cucumber, or 
small pickles cut in half lengthwise. The ingenious cook with 
an eye to the beautiful can easily convert whatever material 
she may happen to have at hand to decorative purposes. 



Salad Dressings 

French Dressing: To Vz teasp salt add M: teasp pepper, a 
few grains of cayenne, a very little mustard, 6 tablesp olive oil, 
and 3 to 6 tablesp lemon juice or vinegar, according to taste. 
Put together in the order named, adding the oil and vinegar 
gradually, and beating well, until all the ingredients are well 
combined. A little onion juice may be added, if liked. — [A. 
G., Mass. 

Cream Dressing: Mix well together % cup each sour cream,, 
sugar and vinegar, with a dash of salt, using a little more sugar 
if the cream and vinegar are very sour, or diluting the latter 
with a very little water. Nice for lettuce. — [E. L., Neb. 

Cabbage Dressing: Boil together a few minutes % cup each 
sugar and vinegar, and V2 tablesp butter, then add 1 cup sour 
cream and 1 beaten egg, and boil a few minutes longer. Let 
get cold, — [L. P., 111. 



192 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Boiled Dressing: Mix well together and boil 5 minutes: 
1 beaten egg, 1 level teasp each salt and mustard, 2 teasp sugar, 
1 tablesp each butter and vinegar, and V2 cup sour cream. — 
[Mrs. E. A., N. H. 

Piquant Dressing: Rub together i/4 cup butter and 1 heap- 
ing tablesp flour, add 2 tablesp sugar, 1 teasp salt, ^ teasp 
each mustard and pepper, and a dash of cayenne pepper, and 
when creamy gradually add 1 cup warm vinegar, and cook 
slowly until it thickens. Will keep a long time. Nice for 
any salad. — [Mrs. W. A. M., O. 

Egg Dressing: Mix together 2 tablesp sugar, 1 tablesp corn- 
starch, 11/^ teasp mustard and V2 teasp salt. Heat 1 pt milk 
to the boiling point, add 2 tablesp butter, stir in 2 beaten eggs 
with the above dry ingredients, and lastly add 1 cup vinegar. 
Beat and stir well to prevent curdling while cooking. Will 
thicken like custard. When cold put in glass fruit jar. — [Mrs. 
M. M., Wis. 

Mustard Dressing: Mix well 1 cup sugar, % cup flour, 1 
teasp salt, and V2 lb mustard. Rub to a smooth paste with a 
little cold vinegar, then add gradually the remainder of 3 
pts vinegar, heated to boiling point, and cook 5 minutes. 
Should be the consistency of thick cream. — [L. P., Neb. 

Mayonnaise Dressing: Mix together i/4 teasp each salt and 
mustard and 1 teasp powdered sugar, add the raw yolks of 2 
eggs, and V2 teasp vinegar, then, drop by drop, % cup olive 
oil, stirring vigorously, and as the mixture thickens, add 
gradually, alternating with the oil, 1 tablesp each vinegar and 
lemon juice. Have all ingredients cold and beat the mixture 
constantly. — [Mrs. D. W. R., Mich. 

Boiled Mayonnaise: Beat 2 raw eggs, add 2 tablesp each 
sugar and butter, y2 teasp mustard, V4, teasp salt, a little white 
pepper, and 8 tablesp vinegar. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Nice for vegetable salad. For fruit salad use 
more sugar and dilute the vinegar with water. Thin with 
cream when ready to use. Adding whipped cream makes it 
nice and fluffy. — [Mrs. J. W. Van B., Wis. 

Potato Salad 

Tha potatoes must be cold, and not too soft or mealy. Cut 
in dice or slices. Add a little finely minced onion, if liked, 
and if obtainable, crisp, tender celery, cut fine. Use any pre- 
ferred dressing — French or mayonnaise, and garnish dish with 
a "frill" of lettuce leaves, inside of that a "chain" of sliced, 
hard-boiled eggs, then cubes or diamonds of red beets, varied 
with tiny tips of parsley, and a few slices of cucumber, pickles, 
or lemon. — [A. G., Mass. 



PISH AND MEAT SALADS 193 



Cabbage Salad 

Shave about 1 qt white cabbage and sprinkle lightly with, 
salt. Cut 1/4 lb smoked ham in dice, and fry brown and crisp; 
then add V2 cup cider vinegar and when thoroughly heated 
through turn over the shaved cabbage, to which has been added 
1 finely minced onion; add pepper to taste.. Another way is 
to use half cabbage and half cold boiled potatoes, or half cab- 
bage and half celery, with any preferred cold dressing. — 
iMrs. F. B., N. Y. 

Vegetable Salad 

For this, all sorts of mixed vegetables can be used, such as 
boiled peas, beans, beets, carrots, potatoes, raw cucumbers, to- 
matoes, cabbage, celery, onions, and even a few tart apples. 
Use any preferred dressing, serve on a platter 'of lettuce 
leaves, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Exact quantities 
€annot be given — the skill of the cook must be called into play, 
lor the "blending" is a nice art. — [A. G., Mass. 

Meat Salad 

Chicken, turkey, ham, veal — in fact, any boiled meat can be 
made up into nice salads. Trim and cut up in small pieces, 
add potatoes and celery, or cabbage, or cucumbers, also cut 
in small pieces, mix with any preferred dressing and garnish 
with lettuce, pickles and hard-boiled eggs. — [A. G., Mass. 

Fish Salad 

Salmon, herring, sardines, or almost any fish, also crabs and 
lobsters, make excellent salad. Mix with chopped cabbage, 
celery, cucumbers or pickles, hard-boiled eggs and potatoes, all 
cut to uniform size, and use any preferred dressing and gar- 
nish. A nice herring salad is made as follows. Soak 1 doz 
salt herrings in water over night, and next morning wash again 
and cut fine, add 1 doz large, tart apples and V2 doz large, 
white onions, 3 lbs boiled veal or chicken, scant % cup sugar, 
1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp pepper, and vinegar to taste. Let stand 
a few hours. — [A. H., Wis. 

Egg Salads 

Hard-boiled eggs, cut in half, each part served on a crisp 
lettuce leaf, with a spoonful of mustard dressing, is one way 
of serving them. Another way is to take out the yolks, after 
boiling and cutting in half lengthwise, and mix same with 
some minced sardines, ham or chicken, seasoning to taste, and 
return to the white boats, with a spoonful of dressing on each. 
[A. G., Mass. 



194 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Tomato Salad 

Sliced tomatoes and cucumbers make a nice salad, with a 
French dressing. Should be served immediately after mixing, 
and be real cold. Another way is to peel ripe tomatoes with 
a sharp knife, cut a slice off stem end, carefully scoop out the 
pulp, and mix same with chopped cucumbers and a dressing, 
and return to the tomato shells. — [A. G., Mass. 

Wilted or Dutch Lettuce 

Trim and clean and break apart 2 or 3 crisp heads of 
lettuce, slice in 4 or 5 green onions with the tender stalks, 2 
or 3 boiled potatoes, 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Cut about 2 oz fat salt pork in small cubes 
and fry crisp, then add 1 cup vinegar, let it boil up and pour 
it over the lettuce mixture and mix well with a wooden fork 
and spoon. Tender young dandelion greens can be used the 
same way. — [Mrs. G. M. N., N. Y. 

Waldorf Salad 

Chop or cut fine 1 bunch of tender, crisp celery, the sarcie 
quantity of fine flavored apples, add 1 cup walnut meats, cut 
small (or any other nuts, even chestnuts, boiled) and mix with 
any preferred salad dressing. This is most delicious. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

Banana Salad 

Take large, ripe bananas, peel and cut in half lengthwise. 
Allow one piece for each person, and place on crisp lettuce 
leaf. Put 2 tablesp ground salted peanuts on the banana, and 
cover all with a thick mayonnaise dressing, containing but little 
mustard, but plenty cream. Delicious. — [E. M. B., Mich. 

Fruit Salads 

Almost an unlimited variety of delicious fruit salads may be 
made in combination with the following foundation: Soak 1 
tablesp clear granulated gelatine in 1 cup cold water and add 
1 cup sugar. If you have fruit juice of any kind on hand, put 
1 pt over fire to heat to the boiling point, and pour on the 
soaked gelatine, and stir until dissolved. If you have no fruit 
juice, use water, then pour over the fruit and put in a cool 
place to harden. Delicious fruit combinations are: Oranges, 
bananas and pineapple, or grated pineapple alone, or grated 
pineapple and chopped nuts, or canned cherries alone, or 
canned peaches, canned pears, and pineapple, or pineapple and 
strawberries, or any combination of the above, and canned 
apricots, raspberries, or indeed, any fruit. I save the juices 
from canned fruits when I make pies, to use to dissolve the 
gelatine, or when canned fruits are used for the salad, pour 
off the juice and use it in this way. Serve fruit salad with 
whipped cream. — [Mrs. C. W. K., 111. 




Beverages and Syrups 

OLD water would suffice as a beverage for 
man, were he minded to so limit himself, 
and providing the water was pure, the cause 
of good health would certainly be better 
served by abstinence from some of the con- 
coctions and brews that have followed in 
the wake of civilization. However, this is not saying that 
water is the only healthful drink. When properly made, and 
not indulged in to excess, the beverages prepared according 
to the following recipes will be found to be not only harm- 
less, but pleasant, nutritious and refreshing — making all 
due allowances for those who, on account of some organic 
trouble or physical disability, have been cautioned by their 
physicians to abstain from certain drinks. 

Drinking Water 

It is of the utmost importance that water used for drinking 
and cooking should be absolutely pure. To be careless about 
this matter is to invite malaria, typhoid and many other dan- 
gerous diseases. If any doubt exists as to the purity of the 
water, which supplies your family, have it examined. Often 
this question of drinking water is the hinge on which the 
whole subject of health turns. Filters require great care and 
close attention to secure absolute cleanliness, by frequent 
changes of the filtering material, or they will only make a 
bad matter worse. The safest way is to boil water, when its 
purity is doubtful, and cool it in clean, tightly corked bottles. 
Boiling destroys disease germs. 

The well or source of water supply should on no account 
be situated anywhere near to barn, stable, cesspools, manure 
heaps, earth closets, or any other possible means of contam- 
ination, since the fluid from these filters through the earth 
and is often carried considerable distances, finally joining 
veins or springs of water that flow to the well. Look into 
this water question most carefully, and spare neither trouble 
nor expense to make it right. Remember, there is no health- 
ful substitute for pure water — nature's provision for one of 
man's chief needs. 

195 



196 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Milk and Its Care 

Milk, though classed as a beverage, is in reality a food. 
However, milk alone, as a food, would not suffice for the 
average adult, who requires well-balanced food, in which the 
liquid does not exceed the other needful food elements, but 
when milk is taken with a meal, less other food is required. 
Raw milk should be sipped very slowly, and if a very little 
lime or barley water is added, it can be retained and digested 
by the most delicate stomach. 

The question of cleanliness in the handling and storing of 
milk is as important in its relation to health as is the water 
question. Milking should be done under the strictest sanitary 
conditions. Negligence in this respect is positively criminal. 
That lawmakers have been obliged to force this issue is not 
creditable to farmers and dairymen, for in these days of 
enlightenment and free information and scientific researches, 
they cannot even plead ignorance as an excuse. Many a child 
has gone to an untimely grave because of some one's lack of 
conscience in this matter. However, it is not always the 
dairyman who is responsible — often the housewife or mother 
is to blame, for though the milk may come to her hands pure, 
her negligence may cause the greatest mischief. 

Milk is one of the best soils for the growth and multiplica- 
tion of certain disease germs — hence the great need of cleanli- 
ness, from the time it is yielded by a healthy cow, until it is 
consumed. It would take a full chapter to do justice to this 
question of the sanitary care and handling of milk, but any- 
one who is not an idiot can figure it out for himself and there- 
fore, no more need to be said about it here. One more caution 
— remember that milk readily absorbs odors and flavors, so 
be sure to always keep it tightly sealed. 

Koumiss 

Koumiss is frequently ordered by physicians for patients 
who are convalescent and who require an easily digested and 
nutritious tonic. It is prepared as follows: Heat pure, fresh 
milk to about 100 degrees, then add to each qt 1^^ tablesp 
sugar, 1 tablesp fresh, lively yeast or a liberal % cake of 
fresh compressed yeast, dissolved in 1 tablesp lukewarm 
water, stir until thoroughly mixed, and then put in pint bottles 
to within about 2 inches of the top, and cork tightly and tie 
the corks down securely. Let stand from 10 to 12 hours in a 
temperature of about 60* to 70 degrees, after which it will be 
ready for drinking. Keep in a cool place and chill before 
using. The average dose for an adult is 1 glass, three times 
a day. Do not prepare too much koumiss at once, as it is 
not good when it gets old. One qt milk, with the other 



TEA AND COFFEE 197 

ingredients, will be about enough for 3 pt bottles, and more 
than that should not be prepared at one time for only one 
patient. — [A. G., Mass. 

Egg-Nogg 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 or 3 tablesp powdered sugar 
to a cream, add the beaten whites and a little grated nutmeg, 
% cup cream, stirring well, and gradually 1 pt fresh milk. 
Vanilla flavor may be used instead of nutmeg, if liked. Serve^ 
very cold. — [A. G., Mass. 

Tea 

The water for tea should be drawn fresh and brought to a 
quick boil and used immediately. Stale water that has lost 
its sparkle, or water that has been standing in the kettle will 
not make good tea. Of course, teapot and kettle should be 
kept scrupulously clean. Rinse the teapot (china or earthen- 
ware), with boiling water, put in 1 teasp tea for each cup 
or person to be served, pour on the boiling water (water 
must be boiling furiously), cover the teapot closely, and set 
on back of range to steep from 3 to 5 minutes, but no longer, 
and serve at once. Over-steeped tea is not healthful, and even, 
dangerous, while properly prepared tea is harmless and mildly 
stimulating. If too strong, add hot water to each cup when 
pouring, and if not strong enough, use more tea. Serve 
with unboiled cream. If a good tea leaf was used, and these 
directions are faithfully followed, a delicious and refreshing 
brew will be the result. Always keep the dry tea in a closed 
canister and never allow left-over tea to remain in teapot. 
For iced tea, pour the freshly made tea from the leaves into- 
a pitcher and let cool, after which add ice and serve as soon 
as chilled.— [Mrs. J. C, N. Y. 

Coffee 

There are three methods of preparing coffee — one by filter- 
ing, the other by boiling, and the other by the careless process 
which produces a muddy and ill-flavored concoction which is 
as harmful as it is unpalatable. In the first place, the water 
should be freshly boiled (see directions for tea), and the 
coffee pot must be immaculately clean — of china, earthen or 
graniteware. Never allow left-over coffee to stand in the 
coffee pot, and scald the latter about once a week, adding 
a little soda to the water. The coffee pot should be rinsed 
with boiling water, and the fresh water for the coffee be boil- 
ing furiously. If a filtered coffee is desired, use a regular 
filterer or a homemade one, consisting of a round cheesecloth 



198 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



bag with a wire run through the hem at the top, the circle 
a little wider than the top of the coffee pot, so that when the 
iDag is suspended in the pot, the edge of the bag may turn 
over the edge of the pot, and permit the cover to be put 
on, and put 1 tablesp finely-ground coffee for each cup or 
person to be served into the filterer, and pour over the freshly 
boiling water. Keep the coffee pot standing in another pot 
of boiling water, to keep hot. The filtered coffee may be 
turned over the grounds in the filterer for a second time, to 
extract all the strength, and the coffee should then be served 
at once, with rich, boiling hot milk, or thick, sv/eet uncooked 
cream. 

The coffee for filtering should always be ground very fine, 
but for boiled coffee, it should be ground coarse. For the 
latter put the coffee right into the pot, pour over the boiling 
water, cover closely, let boil up 1 minute, then move to back 
of stove and let draw 5 minutes, but no longer, pour off 
carefully through a fine sieve into another hot coffee pot, 
and serve at once. If properly prepared, the coffee will not 
be muddy and no egg nor shells will be required to "settle'* 
it. The "settling," if necessary, is accomplished just as well 
with a dash of cold water. A good quality coffee, well roasted, 
is essential to good results. Do not grind a lot of coffee at 
once, and keep the beans in a tightly covered canister, so that 
they may not take on any other flavors, and that none of 
the aroma escapes. If the beans are in the slightest degree 
damp, they will be hard to grind. They can be made fresh 
and crisp by placing in a hot oven a few minutes, and cooling 
quickly. — [Mrs. J. C. N. Y. 

Cereal Coffee 

The directions which are printed on the package in which 
•cereal coffee is bought should be carefully followed, and the 
same rules for tea and coffee, regarding fresh water and clean 
pots, are applicable here too. Cereal coffee requires long 
cooking, and when properly prepared is not only harmless, 
l)ut delicious, nutritious and easily digested. — [A. G., Mass. 

Homemade Cereal Coffee 

To 1 qt wheat bran add 1 pt corn meal, % cup molasses, 
and 1 egg. Mix well together, then spread in a pie pan about 
Vz inch thick, and brown slowly and evenly in the oven. 
Watch carefully, as it burns easily, and if burned it would spoil 
the flavor. Some people like to add a very little butter or 
salt to the mixture. When browned and dry, store in covered 
tin cans. To make coffee use 1 cup of this cereal mixture for 
1 qt coffee, and let boil 1 hour or more — it requires long 



CHOCOLATE AND LEMONADE 199 



l>oilmg to bring out the flavor. If desired, 1 tablesp ground 
coffee may be added during the last 5 minutes of boiling. Serve 
with cream and sugar. — [Mrs. V. R. L., Pa. 

Cocoa and Cocoa Shells 

Use half and half scalded milk and boiling water in a 
double boiler, allow 1 level teasp each of cocoa powder and 
sugar for each cup of liquid, mix these well in a cup, fill gradu- 
ally with the boiling mixture, stirring to free from lumps, and 
then turn into the rest of the milk, boil 5 minutes, and serve 
at once, with or without extra thick, sweet cream. First 
boiling the cocoa in the water and then adding the scalded 
milk is an improvement. Cocoa shells or "nibs" are cheap 
and make a delicious drink. Be sure they are fresh. Allow 
% cup cocoa shells or more to 1 qt boiling water and boil 
gently at least 3 hours, then strain and serve hot with cream 
and sugar. A little vanilla flavor added to cocoa or cocoa 
shell "tea," after removing from fire, is liked by come. — [A. 
V. N., N. Y. 

Chocolate 

Allow 2 ozs bitter chocolate for 1 qt boiling water and 
scalded milk — half and half — and 4 level tablesp sugar. 
Melt the chocolate and sugar in a very little hot water, stir 
smooth, then gradually add the rest of the boiling water and 
boil 5 minutes, after which add the scalded milk and boil 
from 3 to 5 minutes longer, stirring to prevent boiling over 
and a skin from forming on the top. — [A. V. M., N. Y. 

Quick Lemonade 

Melt 1 lb sugar with enough water to prevent burning, and 
boil till it spins a thread, then add the juice of 1 doz lemons, 
and the thin yellow rind of 3 or 4 lemons. Let the mixture 
heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to come to a boil. When 
cool, bottle and seal. Use 1 tablesp for each glass of lemon- 
ade. Candy or dry the rest of the lemon rinds. Nice for 
seasoning. — [Mrs. E. W. A., Minn. 

Lemonade and Orangeade 

Make a syrup by boiling together sugar and water, and when 
cool use this to sweeten. A very, very little of the thin yellow 
rind of the fruit may be cooked in the syrup. Allow juice of 
1 lemon or orange for 1 glass water, (or both mixed — half 
and half) sweeten with the sugar syrup, chill with ice, and 
serve at once. — [A. G., Mass. 



200 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Fruit Shrub 

To 1 qt mashed, ripe fruit add 1 qt water, 2 ozs tartaric 
acid, and let stand 24 hours, then strain, and to each pt liquid- 
add 1 pt sugar Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then put in 
bottles and let stand 2 days before corking and sealing. — [E. 
W. L., W. Va. 

Currant, Raspberry or Strawberry Shrub 

Pick and wash 6 qts of the fruit, put in a jar, cover with 
3 pts good cider vinegar, let stand 10 hours, then bring to the 
scalding point, strain, and to each pt juice add 1 lb sugar and 
boil 15 minutes. Pour into bottles, cork tightly and seal. 
This is an excellent hot weather beverage. Use Vz cup syrup 
for 1 pt water. — £Mrs. E. M. H., Wis. 

Pineapple Shmb 

Pare 1 large, ripe pineapple, cut out the "eyes," chop fine, 
sweeten to taste, add 1 gal water, and let stand 3 days in a 
temperature of about 90 degrees, or until it begins to ferment. 
Bottle, cork tightly, and seal securely. Allow 2 tablesp of this 
shrub for 1 glass water. — [M. B., 111. 

ruit Punch 

the juice of 1 doz oranges and V2 doz lemons, add 1 
pineapple (fresh, grated, or canned), 2 ripe bananas, cut fine, 
and any other juicy fruit or berry in season. Add water and 
ice, and sweeten to taste. — [Mrs. F. S. T., Ct. 

Tea Punch 

To 1 qt cold tea (not strong), add the juice of 2 lemons 
and 1 orange, 2 scant cups sugar, and 1 pt seltzer or soda 
water. Cool with ice. A few raspberries, strawberries or chips 
of pineapple may be added, if liked. — [Mrs. D. W. B., N. Y. 

Harvest Punch 

On very hot days, when the harvest hands are working in 
the field, and the water jug is sent in to be replenished, mix 
with the water, % cup each sugar and cider vinegar" and 1 
level tablesp ginger. The harvesters will surely appreciate 
this. — [No Name. 

Blackben'y and Blueberry Cordials 

Simmer blackberries with a very little water until they are 
soft, then strain, and to each pt juice add 1 lb sugar, y2 oz 



GRAPE JUICE AND SYRUPS 201 

cinnamon, scant i/4 oz mace, and 2 teasp extracts of cloves. 
Boil 15 to 20 minutes, stirring often, then cool, bottle, cork 
and seal. — [Mrs. F. S. T., Ct. 

To 2 qts blueberries add 2 cups sugar, 1 cup v/ater, and boil 
10 minutes, then strain, and when cold, bottle, cork and seal. — 
IMrs. L. S., Minn. 

To Keep Cider 

Make the cider of nice, sound apples, and while still fresh, 
strain, and heat, skimming the scum as it rises, but do not 
boil. Fill the hot cider into glass fruit jars, and seal air 
tight. This will come in handy in summer time for the harvest 
hands. — [No Name. 

Canned Grape Juice 

Pick over and wash some nice ripe grapes, add a very little 
water and cook as for jelly. When soft, strain through a jelly 
bag, but do not squeeze the bag, as this would cloud the 
liquid. To each pt strained juice add 1 cup sugar, boil 2 or 3 
minutes, skim, bottle, cork, and seal while hot. When wanted 
for use, mix with an equal amount of water. The sugar may 
be omitted, if desired — many dyspeptics are ordered to drink 
unsweetened grape juice. Must be sealed in air-tight jars. — 
[K. A. D., N. D. 

Syrups 

Use only the best sugar and soft, filtered water, if possible, 
as this will save the trouble of clarification, which is necessary 
when inferior ingredients are used. Pour the water cold over 
the sugar, and let it slowly melt. Boil by gentle heat, and 
then keep simmering until it syrups. Buy the essence and 
tincture from a reliable druggist. 

To make plain syrup, add to 6 lbs sugar Vz gal water. Boil 
until thoroughly dissolved and syrupy, and then filter. 

To make clove syrup add to 1 lb plain syrup 30 drops 
quintessence of cloves. Bottle and shake well before using. 
To make orange syrup add to 1 lb plain syrup 2 ozs tincture 
of orange peel. For pineapple syrup add to 1 gal plain 
syrup % oz tartaric acid and 1 oz essence of pineapple. For 
raspberry syrup add to 1 gal plain syrup % oz tincture of 
tartaric acid and Vz oz essence of raspberry. For sarsaparilla 
syrup, add to 1 gal plain syrup 10 drops oil of anise, 20 drops 
oil of wintergreen, and 20 drops oil of sarsaparilla. To make 
nectar add to 1 lb plain syrup 30 drops essence of nectar. 

To make rose syrup allow for 1 lb fresh rose petals 1 qt 
clear water and 4 lbs granulated sugar. Put water in porcelain- 



202 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



lined kettle, bring to boiling point, add rose petals, cover, 
take from fire, and stand away over night. Next morning 
strain through a fine cloth, add the sugar, and boil until 
sugar is entirely dissolved and "syrupy," Fill into clean 
bottles, press in good, clean corks that have been soaking in 
boiling water, to which a pinch of baking soda was added, and 
dip the tops of bottles (cork and all) into melted wax or paraf- 
fine. Keep in a cool place. Fine rose flavor for cakes, ice 
creams, ices, icing, drinks, candies, etc. — [A. G., Mass. 

Imitation Maple Syrup 

Boil 1 doz clean corn cobs (red are best), from 1 to 2 hours, 
in enough water to leave nearly 1 pt liquid, when done, then 
strain, add 2 lbs brown sugar, and boil until as thick as 
desired. This syrup has a fine flavor, very much like maple 
syrup. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Silver Drip Syrup 

To 3 cups sugar add 1 cup water and i/^ teasp purifier, and 
boil 15 minutes, then skim or strain. Nice to ser\e with warm 
cakes. The purifier is made as follows: Mix and sift together 
three times 1 teasp each flour, sugar, and powdered alum. This 
mixture can be kept on hand and used as needed. — [Mrs. C. 
H. Y., Mo. 

Soda Syi'up 

To 2 lbs sugar add 2 ozs tartaric acid and l^/^ qts boiling 
water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and let cool, then 
add 1 oz of any preferred flavoring, and the beaten v/hites of 
3 eggs. Put 2 tablesp of this syrup in a glass half full cold 
water, and stir in scant ^ teasp soda. — [Mrs. E. T., Vt. 

Cherry Syrup 

Boil ripe cherries with a very little water, and when soft, 
strain through a jelly bag. For each qt juice allow 3 lbs sugar. 
Put the sugar on with freshly boiled water, allowing 1 pt 
•water for every 3 lbs sugar. Stir until dissolved, then add 
the cherry juice, bring to a boil, skim, and boil rapidly for 
1 or 2 minutes. Bottle, cork and seal. This syrup is delicious 
with hot cakes, or for flavoring puddings, sauces, ice cream, 
etc. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Toast Water 

Cut slices of stale bread % inch thick, put in slow oven 
to crisp, and when a golden brown, break in pieces, add an 
equal amount boiling water, let stand 1 hour, then strain, 
and serve hot or cold with or without sugar. — [J. H. 



BEEF AND OYSTER TEA 203- 



Rice Water 

Wash 2 tablesp rice first in cold water and then in hot water, 
add 1 qt cold water, let simmer gently 1 hour, then strain, 
and add salt and sugar to taste. Serve as it is, or diluted with 
milk. — [J. H. 

Barley Water 

Wash 3 or 4 teasp pearl barley and put over the fire with 
a little cold water. Boil 4 or 5 minutes, then drain, rinse in 
cold water, add 1 qt fresh cold water, let come to the boiling 
point, and then simmer slowly until reduced to about 3 cups 
liquid. Add salt and sugar to taste and serve as it is, or 
diluted with milk. — [J. H. 

Oyster Tea 

Chop fine 2 doz oysters, add 1 pt cold water, boil 5 minutes, 
strain, season with salt and pepper, and serve with crisp oyster 
crackers. — [M. P., N. H. 

Beef Tea ' 

Cut 2 lbs top-round beefsteak in %-inch pieces, put into a 
porcelain-lined or agate saucepan, cover with, pounded ice 1 
inch thick, and let stand about 2 hours. Then put over the 
fire, let heat nearly to the boiling point, and strain. Another 
way is to put into an earthern jar the same amount of beef 
round, with a knuckle of veal, broken up. Cover the jar and 
place in a large saucepan of boiling water, and let boil slowly 
5 or 6 hours, after which the jar will be well filled with 
meat juice. Strain and cool. It will jelly. Serve cold in 
summer, and dissolved in a little hot water in winter. Remem- 
ber that this is extract of beef, and therefore a little of it 
goes a long way. — [A. G., Mass. 

Flaxseed Tea 

Wash 2 tablesp whole flaxseed, add 1 qt boiling water, let 
boil 1 or 2 hours, strain, and add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Very soothing and good for those suffering with a 
cold. — [J. H. 



Serve cold chocolate or cocoa topped off with whipped 
cream. — [E, M. C, Mich. 



Add a little rolled oats to lemonade, on days when it is 
'almost too hot to eat." — [Mrs. D. L. P., Cuba. 



204 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Freshly made buttermilk, nice and clean, chilled on ice, 
and sweetened to taste, is a very healthful beverage. — [A. G,, 

Mass. 

Beat 1 egg, put in a glass with 1 tablesp sugar, mix well 
and fill with hot, sweet cider, stirring constantly. — [F. L. 
R., Ct. 

Cook rhubarb in plenty of water, strain, sweeten to taste, 
and boil about 5 minutes. This is nice syrup to add to lemon- 
ade. — [E. B., Mass. 

Put 1 level teasp ground ginger in a pt pitcher, add a 
dash of grated nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon, sugar to taste, 
and fill up with boiling water. Steep a few minutes, then 
strain. — [F. L. R., Ct. 

Moisten 1 oz finely ground tea with cold water, let stand j 
20 minutes, then pour on 1 pt fresh boiling water, and steep 1 
1 minufe, but no longer, — [Mrs. D. W. B., N. Y. ; 



[PASTE ADDITIONAL RECIPES HERE] 




Ices, Ice Qream and Qonfections 

HAT is more delightfully cooling and refresh- 
ing than frozen fruit ices and ice cream? And 
not only are they most palatable, but ice cream 
is nourishing as well, and of great value in the 
sick room. Pure, homemade candies also pos- 
sess dietetic value, and when partaken of spar- 
ingly and only occasionally, can do no harm, except perhaps 
to those whose state of health requires total abstinence from 
all sweets. The following directions and recipes will doubt- 
less answer all the needs of the family of average 
means, in that particular branch of the art of cookery. 

How to Freeze Ices and Creams * 

Small freezers, for family use, can now be had at such 
reasonable prices, that almost nine out of every ten house- 
keepers can count a freezer among her necessary cooking uten- 
sils. On farms where milk, cream, eggs and fruit are plenti- 
ful, the chief item of expense, when making ice cream, is the 
ice — unless the farm can also boast of a well-filled ice-house — 
but even if not, 5c or 10c worth of ice will go a long way. 

Put the ice in a bag and crush fine by pounding with a 
wooden mallet or the broad side of an axe — there should be 
no pieces larger than a walnut — the finer, the better. Use 
three parts coarse rock salt to one part crushed ice, 
evenly distributed and pack closely and solidly around the can 
in the freezer. The cream will freeze more quickly if more 
salt is used, but will not be so fine grained. Remember that 
freezing increases the bulk of the cream mixture, and there- 
fore never fill the can more than three-quarters full. The 
ice and salt need come up no further than the contents of can. 

Cover the can closely, adjust the top, and make sure that 
the can fits in the socket, so that the crank may be turned 
readily. Turn the crank slowly and steadily at first, after- 
wards more rapidly, until it becomes difficult to turn, which 
is the sign that freezing has been accomplished. More ice 
and salt may be added, from time to time, if necessary, but 
the water should not be drawn off before the freezing is 
done, unless it gets so high that it threatens to run over into 
the can. It is the salt water that does the freezing, and it is 
the salt that melts the ice, and the more salt, the quicker the 

205 



206 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



■freezing, although, as before mentioned, quick freezing 
produces a coarse grained cream. 

After the mixture is well frozen, draw the water off, care- 
fully remove cover and dasher, and pack the cream down 
solidly, then return the cover, closing the opening in same 
securely with a cork, and repack the freezer, using four parts 
crushed ice to one part salt. Cover with a piece of carpet or 
quilt, and let stand at least two or three hours to "ripen," 
before serving, although it may stand even longer. 

Lemon or Orange Ice 

For a lemon ice boil together 20 minutes 2 cups sugar with 
4 cups water, or until it syrups, then add % 'iup strained 
lemon juice, let get cold, and then freeze. Proceed the same 
for orange ice, only use less lemon — about i/4 cup lemon juice 
— and 2 cups orange juice, with the grated rind of 2 oranges. 

Strawberry, Raspberry and Currant Ices 

To 1^/^ cups sugar add 4 cups water and boil 2 minutes, or 
until it syrups, then add either 2 cups strawberry, raspberry 
or currant juice (a mixture of half raspberry and half currant 
is nice), and in the case of strawberry or raspberry alone, 
add to the former 1 tablesp and to the latter 2 tablesp lemon 
juice. Let the mixture get cold, and then freeze. To obtain 
the pure fruit juice, mash, heat a little, but add no water, and 
squeeze through a cheese cloth bag. Strain again if the liquid 
does not look clear enough. 

Milk Sherbet 

Mix together l^^ cups sugar and the juice of 3 lemons (if 
small or not very juicy, use 4 lemons) and then add, slowly 
and gradually, stirring constantly, 4 cups milk. If this is 
carefully done, it will not curdle, but if it should happen 
to curdle, it will not spoil che sherbet, though it may not 
look so nice. Freeze. 

Peach Sherbet 

To 2 cups sugar add 1 qt water and about 10 peach kernels, 
and boil 20 minutes, then add 1 teasp clear granulated gela- 
tine, soaked in 2 tablesp cold water, and stir until dissolved. 
Let get cold, and then add l^^ cups mashed peach pulp (fully 
ripe peaches mashed through a sieve), and the juice of 1 
lemon and 2 oranges. Freeze. 

Coflfee Sherbet 

To y2 or % cup finely ground coffee add 1 beaten egg and 
the crushed shell, then stir in V2 cup cold water, and when 



GRAPE SHERBET AND ICE CREAM 207 



well mixed, add 6 cups boiling water and let boil 2 or 3 min- 
utes, but no longer, then add 2 teasp clear granulated gela- 
tine soaked in 2 tablesp cold water, and stir till dissolved, then 
strain through cheese cloth wrung out of hot water. Add to 
the strained liquid l^^ cups sugar, and when dissolved and 
cold, freeze. Serve in glass cups, each one topped off with a 
spoonful of whipped cream. 

Grape Sherbet 

To 1 pt sugar add 1 qt water and boil 20 minutes, then add 
1 teasp clear granulated gelatine soaked in 1 tablesp cold 
water, and when dissolved, remove from fire, add 1 pt clear 
grape juice, and the juice of 2 lemons. Cool and freeze. 

Pineapple Frappe 

To 11/4 cups sugar add 2 cups water and boil 15 minutes, 
then add juice of 3 lemons and a fresh pineapple, shredded 
(or canned pineapple, but in that case use less sugar in the 
syrup). Remove from fire and stir in 2 cups cold water, and 
when cold, freeze, using equal parts of ice and salt. Other 
juicy fruits or berries can be used the same way. 

Vanilla or Chocolate Ice Cream 

Mix well together 1 cup sugar, 1 tablesp flour and Vs teasp 
salt, then add 1 beaten egg, and very gradually 2 cups hot 
milk. Cook in a double boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly, 
and when cold add 1 qt cream (thin), and 2 tablesp vanilla 
extract. The mixture should be nice and smooth, like custard, 
but should it happen to curdle, it will not show after freez- 
ing, nor affect the taste. Freeze. For chocolate ice cream 
use only 1 tablesp vanilla, and add 1 or IVz squares of bitter 
chocolate, or an equal quantity of cocoa. Ice creams should 
taste very sweet before freezing. For variety, when making 
vanilla ice cream, burn half the sugar (to make a caramel) 
and add it to the hot custard. Chopped nut meats added to 
vanilla ice cream is also nice. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Scald together iy2 cups milk and V2 cup freshly made, 
strong, black coffee, then gradually add this to 1^4 cups sugar 
mixed with 2 beaten eggs and a pinch of, salt, stirring vigor- 
ously, and cook in a double boiler until thickened, then add, 
slowly and gradually, 1 qt cream, stirring constantly, and let 
stand on back of range about 20 minutes. Cool and freeze. 



208 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Unboiled Foundation Cream 

Into a bowl put the white of 1 egg, ^/^ tablesp cold water, 
and 74 teasp vanilla, and beat until well mixed, then add 
gradually 1 lb confectioner's sugar (or a little less), until stiff 
enough to handle or knead. This cream can be used in various 
ways. For creamed walnuts, break off small pieces, shape into 
small, flat cakes, and press half a walnut on either side of 
each cake. For chocolate cream drops, shape into small balls, 
stick on end of knitting needle or a toothpick, and dip in 
melted chocolate, to which no water has been added. For nut 
bars, work chopped nut meats into the cream, and cut in small 
bars. The cream can be flavored and colored to suit. 

Colorings for Candy 

Prepared cochineal is harmless and tasteless, used in small 
quantities, and produces all the pretty and varying shades from 
a light pink to a deep red. Buy 1 oz powdered cochineal at 
the drug store and boil it with 5 grains bi-carbonate of soda 
and % pt soft water until reduced one-half, then add 2 
drachms erch of powdered alum and cream of tartar, let boil 
10 minutes longer, and strain through double cheese cloth. 
Bottle and cork. From 5 to 10 drops is enough to color candy. 

A nice yellow color is obtained by using more or less of the 
grated rind of an orange, or the following preparation: Boil 
1 oz English hay-saffron in 1 pt water until reduced one-half, 
then strain, and bottle and cork. Be careful not to use too 
much of this coloring, or you may find the flavoring objec- 
tionable. 

Pretty amber or light brown colors can be obtained by using 
a few drops, more or less, of caramel, which is prepared as 
follows: Put V2 pt sugar in a granite-ware kettle over the 
fire, and stir constantly until it melts and begins to smoke and 
burn, then quickly add V2 pt water, and stir and boil until a 
thick S3^rup, the consistency of molasses. Bottle and cork. 
Will keep a year. 

Use spinach greens to obtain green shades. Boil down to a 
very small quantity, then strain and boil the juice again until 
it curdles, after which strain again and let the soft residue 
dry in the air until it forms a thick paste, then rub in an equal 
quantity of powdered sugar, and when smooth, put away in 
a covered glass jar. 

Peppermint Drops 

Stir until dissolved 1 V2 cups sugar and V2 cup boiling water, 
then boil 10 minutes, remove from fire, add 6 to 8 drops oil 
of peppermint, and beat until the right consistency to drop 
from tip of spoon on buttered paper. 




NO. I — PRETTY DECORATION FOR CHRISTMAS TABLE. 




NO. II— A PATRIOTIC TABLE FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY. 



MOLASSES AND CREAM CANDY 



Gum Drops or Wafers 

Soak 1 oz gum tragacanth (bought at drug store) in 1 cup 
cold water about 2 4 hours, and then rub through a fine wire 
sieve. Knead in enough confectioner's sugar so the mass can 
be handled, and add flavoring and coloring as preferred. Roll 
thin on a smooth board dredged with confectioner's sugar, cut 
in small squares or fancy shapes, and roll in granulated sugar. 

Plain Molasses Candy 

Put 3 tablesp butter in a small granite-ware kettle, place 
over fire, and when melted, add 2 cups molasses and % cup 
sugar, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil steadily until, 
when a little is dropped in cold water, the candy will become 
brittle. Stir constantly, to prevent burning and boiling over. 
Just before removing from the fire, add 1 tablesp vinegar, 
and pour the mixture on a well-buttered pie plate. When cool 
enough to handle, pull until the candy is porous and light 
colored, using the hands, well buttered, but be careful to 
handle the candy lightly, between fingers and thumbs. Squeez- 
ing between the hands would spoil it. Cut in small pieces with 
a sharp knife, and arrange on buttered plates to cool. 

Velvet Molasses Candy 

Put over the fire, in a granite-ware kettle, 1 cup molasses, 
3 cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water, and 3 tablesp vinegar. 
When it reaches the boiling point, add i/^ teasp cream of 
tartar, and boil until, when a little is dropped in cold water,, 
it will become brittle. Stir constantly, and when nearly done, 
add V2 cup melted butter and i/4 teasp soda. Pour on a but- 
tered pie plate, and when cool enough to handle, pull, same as 
directed in recipe for plain molasses candy, working in, while 
pulling 1 teasp vanilla and i/^ teasp lemon extract, or a few 
drops of peppermint or oil of wintergreen. 

Sugar Candy 

Put 2 tablesp butter in a granite-ware kettle, and when 
melted add 2 cups sugar and V2 cup vinegar. Stir until sugar 
is dissolved, and boil until when a little of the mixture is drop- 
ped in cold water it will become brittle. Pour on a buttered 
pie plate, and pull, the same as molasses candy. 

Cream Candy 

Into an agate-ware kettle put 3 cups sugar, i^ cup boiling 
water, V2 tablesp vinegar, and ^A teasp cream of tartar. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then boil without stirring until 
it will brittle when a little is dropped in cold water. Pour on 
a buttered plate, and as soon as it can be handled, pull until 



210 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

white and glossy, meanwhile working in any desired flavor — ■ 
lemon, orange or vanilla extract, or a few drops of oil of win- 
tergreen or sassafras, or peppermint. Cut in small pieces and 
lay on a buttered plate to cool. 

Old-Fashioned Butter Scotch 

Boil together until it will brittle, 1 cup sugar, i/4 cup molas- 
ses, 1/2 cup butter, 2 tablesp boiling water, and 1 tablesp vine- 
gar, then pour on a buttered plate, and before it hardens, 
mark in squares with a knife. If liked, a little vanilla ex- 
tract or cinnamon may be added, after removing from fire. 

Plain Butter Taffy 

Boil until it brittles, 2 cups brown sugar, i/4 cup molasses, 
2 tablesp each vinegar and water, and % teasp salt. When 
nearly done add i/4 cup butter, and after removing from fire, 
2 teasp vanilla extract. Pour on a buttered plate, and before 
it hardens, mark in squares with a knife. 

Horehound Taffy 

Buy any desired quantity of pressed horehound at the drug 
store, cut off a piece about 1 inch square, and steep 1 minute 
in 2 cups boiling water, then strain through a double cheese 
cloth, add 3 cups sugar and ^^ teasp cream of tartar, and boil 
until it will brittle, then pour on a buttered plate, and before it 
liardens, mark with a knife in small squares. 

Chocolate or Nut Caramels 

Put 2^/^ tablesp butter in a kettle over the fire, and when 
melted add 2 cups molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, and i/^ cup 
milk. Stir until sugar is dissolved, let come to the boiling 
point, then add 2 or 3 squares bitter chocolate, and stir until 
it is melted. Boil until, when a little is dropped in cold 
water, it can be shaped into a soft, firm ball, between the 
:fingers, then remove from fire, add 1 teasp vanilla, pour on a 
buttered plate, and when cool, mark in inch squares v/ith a 
sharp knife. To make nut caramels, add to the above 1 lb 
English walnuts, chopped fine, or V2 lb blanched almonds, 
chopped, or any other nut meats. 

Cocoanut Candy 

Put 2 teasp butter in a granite-ware saucepan, and when 
melted add 1 V2 cups sugar and 1 cup milk, and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Boil 12 minutes after it begins to boil, then 
remove from fire and add V2 teasp vanilla and i/4 cup grated 
or shredded cocoanut, and beat until creamy, then pour on a 
buttered plate, cool, and mark in squares with a sharp knife. 
Any nut meats may be used instead of cocoanut. 




Table Equipment and Etiquette 

N this chapter no atiempts are made to deal 
with knotty problems of formal dining 
etiquette, or to suggest elaborate functions 
which the average farm housewife, minus 
hired help, would be unable to carry out. 
There are books aplenty on such subjects, and anyone who 
can afford time and money to live or entertain in lavish 
and formal style can afford to buy such books, and need 
not turn to this humble little volume for the desired informa- 
tion. But the endeavor is, rather, to point out the "little 
things" pertaining to refinement that are so easily over- 
looked, unless we take time to think and train ourselves to 
an everyday observance of them, to the end that good 
manners may become a part of us, so to speak, and enable 
us to ''hold our own" in any society, without awkwardness 
or embarrassment. In this, as in all other accomplish- 
ments, ease comes with constant practice. 

The Dining Room 

It is a mistake to clutter up any room in the house with 
an odd assortment of dust collecting things that serve neither 
for use nor ornament, and this applies with emphasis to the 
dining room, which should he plainly furnished with such 
necessary articles as one can afford, and be an altogether 
bright and cheerful looking room. Red is a favorite color 
for dining room paper, with yellow and lively greens as close 
seconds. Pictures always show off best against rather plain 
papers, and the pictures themselves had far better be few 
and good, than many and poor or inappropriate. All the 
appointments of a dining room should radiate brightness and 
cheerfulness. That everything should be immaculately clean 
goes without saying, and another most important point, too 
often neglected, is the ventilation. Fresh air, and plenty of it, 
is an absolute necessity and will do much toward promoting 
digestion and good humor. Let the housewife not forget that 

211 



212 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

fresh air can be warmed more easily than stale air, and that 
fresh air costs nothing. A few growing plants add to the 
attractiveness of a dining room, as do clean window panes 
and plain white curtains. Let the room in which the whole 
family assembles three times a day be as nice as you can 
plan and make and keep it. 

The Dining Room Table 

Some one once remarked facetiously that the best decoration 
for a dining room table is a well-cooked dinner, and in this 
he was not so far wrong, though he might have gone further 
and said that the best dinner might be served in an unappe- 
tizing manner, and even a plain meal be made appetizing 
by the way it is served. It is a mistake to use nice table 
linen and dishes only for very special occasions, or when 
entertaining company. Such a system makes everyone, and 
especially the children, rather awkward when the special 
occasions with their special table display do come along. 
It would help wonderfully to induce everyone to use his best 
table manners always, if nice table equipment were an every- 
day affair — the influence of environment is not a theory, but 
a fact. 

The table should be spread first with a "silence cloth," made 
of two layers of white outing or Canton flannel, and then with 
a white table cloth. Even if the latter is not fine linen, as 
long as it is clean it will b^ all right, and careful table 
manners will make too frequent changes unnecessary. A 
little doily in the center, with a small fern or a vase of flow- 
ers, adds a bright touch which costs nothing. The table should 
be set with care, and no necessary article omitted, so as to 
obviate unpleasant excursions to pantry and kitchen during 
the progress of the meal. The little son or daughter can 
be trained to save the mother considerable work, in setting 
and clearing the table, and in serving the meal. Put a 
plate at each place, the forks at the left side, and the knives 
and spoons (including tea spoons) at the right side. The 
napkins may be placed either on the plate or on the left 
side, and the water glass should be placed a little to 
the right of the plate, at the head of the knives, while the 
little bread plates or butter patties are placed in a correspond- 
ing position at the left side. 

Ihe soup plates should be placed near at hand to the one 
who is to serve from the tureen, and each person be served 
by a certain member of the family whose duty or turn it is 
to play waiter or waitress for that week, the same one also 










NO. Ill— WITH BLOSSOMS AND BUTTERFLIES. 




NO. IV— CHRYSANTHEMUMS AND "JAP" LANTERNS 



TABLE EQUIPMENT AND ETIQUETTE 213 

quietly removing the empty plates. Always serve full plates 
and remove empty plates from tlie right, but in presenting 
dishes or platters for the individual to help himself, serve 
from the left. After the soup course the meat, vegetables and 
potatoes, which, already dished, had been left in the warming 
oven, may be placed on the table and be served individually 
by the appointed waiter, or passed around from hand to hand, 
the waiter removing the plates, dishes and platters after this 
course, and placing the dessert plates and dessert. All 
extra plates and cups and saucers, and everything necessary 
for serving the meal, should be in readiness on a little side 
table or side board, before beginning the meal, and the 
empty plates and dishes and platters removed noiselessly and 
carried out on a big tray, so as to save running about as much 
as possible, which would otherwise create an undesirable air 
of confusion. 

All these directions may sound rather formidable, and seem 
rather too much for everyday use, when "hustle" is the 
watchword, but they are in reality most easily carried out, 
if everything is done with precision according to a fixed 
system, by trained and willing hands. It is only by con- 
stantly practising good manners that one can become thor- 
oughly conversant with them, and it is both elevating and 
inspiring to do one's best, always, and to cultivate refinement 
in all we say and do. * 

Table Manners 

It should be counted an unpardonable offense to appear at 
table any other way but clean. No matter how heavy or 
dirty the work one must do, water and soap, and a comb and 
clothes brush will help one to "spruce up" in a few minutes. 
The practice of cleanliness inspires respect and promotes self- 
respect. It is decidedly worth while to cultivate both. When 
men have been working in the fields and their boots are 
plastered with earth or ill-smelling matter, let them remove 
the boots and slip into a handy pair of slippers. The change 
is restful to the feet and takes but a few minutes to accom- 
plish. In like manner children should be taught the gospel 
of cleanliness. 

Let the conversation at table be bright and cheery, and 
on no account let troublesome or unpleasant subjects be 
broached, nor permit any personal grievances to be aired. 
The state of mind has considerable to do with the digestion, 
which in turn affects nutrition. To adapt a scriptural passage;. 



214 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

"Better a crust with a happy spirit, than a full meal with 
contention." 

Teach the children to be quiet in voice and manners, not 
to make a "sucking" noise when drinking soup, to take the 
soup from the side of the spoon, not to tip their plates, nor 
spread the contents over the edge of the plates, to handle 
forks and knives properly and never to put the latter in 
their mouths, or use it to convey food to their mouths, not 
to "play" with the dishes or food, not to drink with the 
mouth full of food, to thoroughly chew and swallow each 
mouthful, and to make as little noise as possible all through 
the process of eating their meals. 

It goes without saying that parents want to teach by 
example as well as precept, and though it may be some 
trouble and require much patience to teach children how to 
conduct themselves properly, it is something that ought to 
be done, and had much better be done sooner than later. It 
is hard to teach an old dog new tricks. There is no patent 
on refinement, and all who will may cultivate it, to their own 
satisfaction and to the delight of all with whom they may 
come in contact. The term "country boor" is a reproach 
which none should be willing to stand for in this age of 
progress for all. 

Special Table Decoratioiis 

( SEE ILLUSTRATIONS ) 

No. I — A very simple and easily managed decoration for 
the Christmas supper table is shown in the illustration on 
another page. The cloth is white and the holly ribbons, 
green on a red back-ground, can be of silk ribbon or cotton, 
with the real leaves appliqued, or of crepe paper. Two long 
strips should be crossed at the center of the table, allowing 
the four ends to come to the edge of the tablecloth. In the 
center place a tiny Christmas tree decorated with small red 
candles and bright bits of tinsel, but do not hang anything 
heavy on the tree, nor dress it too elaborately. The tree 
should be firmly fixed in a wooden brace or stand, painted 
green, or concealed with green branches. Put red candles 
in the candlesticks and shade them with any appropriate 
shade you can buy or can make, but be sure they are placed 
on straight, over a wire frame, the upper edges protected 
with a strip of asbestos. The shades can very easily be 
made of crepe paper. 



SPECIAL TABLE DECORATIONS 215^ 

No. II — For a Fourth of July luncheon or supper, the 
decoration suggested in the illustration would be most 
appropriate. The ribbon, as in the case of the Christmas 
table, can be of silk, cotton or crepe paper, and the centerpiece 
is simply composed of a tall vase placed in a fern dish, and 
both decorated v/ith ferns and flags. The latter can be of 
silk, cotton or paper, and two of them should be crossed at 
the head of each plate. The napkins might also be of crepe 
paper, with flag designs. 

No. Ill — For uny special occasions, such as a birthday cele- 
bration or wedding anniversary, occurring during the season 
when blossoms are plentiful, the decoration suggested in the 
illustration would be most dainty. Use blossoms in profusion, 
let the ribbon streamers be pink, and the butterflies made of 
gaily colored crepe or tissue paper. The whole decorative 
scheme should be light and airy, suggestive of, and in harmony 
with the sweet spring season. 

No. IV — In fall, when dahlias and chrysanthemums are 
plentiful, a very handsome centerpiece for the table can be 
built up with a tall vase filled with flowers of gorgeous color- 
ing, and pliable green stems or stripped branches to hold 
small, gaily-colored Japanese lanterns. Between each plate 
place a beautiful chrysanthemum on four pressed autumn 
leaves of maple or oak, as suggested in the illustration. 

No. V — When summer is at its hight, it is an easy matter 
to fix up attractive and appropriate table decorations, simple- 
or elaborate, as the occasion may warrant. The illustration 
shows a pretty, low and broad glass bowl, filled with gay 
flowers and foliage, and placed on a mirror, the edge of 
which is hidden under a close border of small flowers — any 
kind that does not wither easily. 

No. VI — Yellow pumpkins, scraped clean inside, and a candle 
placed in the top one, the face openings covered inside with 
red tissue paper, form the chief table decoration for a 
Hallow-e'en party. Arrange three in a group, and fill these 
with nuts and candy, replacing the caps, and on the top of 
these carefully place the "face" pumpkin with the candle 
inside. Group three ears of red corn and three red apples 
between each pumpkin, dispose red candles in a circle around 
these, and place a large green pumpkin leaf under each plate^ 



216 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Gannin^ and Ppesevvin^ Hints 

Envelop glass jars in towels wrung out of hot water, pour 
the fruit in slowly, and the jars will not break. Screw on cov- 
ers as tight as possible, being sure that the rubber shows all 
around the cover. Never turn the covers on the cans after 
they have cooled, for it loosens instead of tightening them. It 
also loosens them to lift the cans by the tops, after they are 
sealed. — [N. L., Tenn. 

When I can pears, I first wash, peel and core the fruit and 
then put the cores and parings into a preserving kettle and 
pour in enough water to almost cover. Boil until the juice is 
all extracted, then strain through a jelly bag, add 1 cup sugar 
for each qt fruit, let boil up and then drop in the pears and 
boil them till tender. When done, skim out the pears, drop 
them into hot jars, boil the syrup a little longer, and then 
pour it over the fruit in the jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs. 
R. W.. Me. 

In canning tomatoes last fall I ran short of jars, so, instead 
of putting meat and juice in jar, I drained off all the juice pos- 
sible, which I then put through strainer to rid of seeds. The 
meaty portions were canned, the clear juice was put scalding 
hot into clean, hot bottles, clean corks inserted, and a solid 
coating of fruit sealing wax given to cork and top of bottle. 
The bottle was inverted and plunged into hot wax, as the easi- 
est way. Each bottle when opened, makes soup for four, with 
addition of milk and thickening. — [Mrs. R. J. F. 

Berries canned cold with sugar, without cooking, may 
deceive you into thinking that they have spoiled for they will 
work some and rnake the outside of the jar sticky with juice 
and mould, but this will not affect the contents of the jar. 
Before using, clean the outside of the jar thoroughly and pour 
the contents in a dish and let stand several hours to throw off 
the acid gases. Berries canned this way are nice served with 
■cream. — [Mrs. E. B. L., Me. 

Many housekeepers make little ceremony canning berries of 
any kind. The main thing is to use only good, ripe berries. 
Pick as they ripen, put into jars and pour over them boiling 
hot syrup made of sugar and water. Have the glass overflow- 
ing full, seal while hot, and then set the jars in a pail or boiler 
of boiling water which more than covers the jars. Cover the 
pail closely and throw a cloth or quilt over it, and let stand 
until cold. Be sure that the tops are screwed on the jars as 
tight as possible. — [Miss F. L. R., Ct. 




Qannin^ and Preserving 

URING the spring, summer and early fall 
months, the good housekeeper on the farm 
finds her hands full, for in each of those 
seasons Mother Nature provides something 
in the line of fruit or vegetable which needs 
to be canned or preserved for use during the 
bleak and barren months of winter, begin- 
ning with the earliest berries and garden truck and winding 
up with the late pears, peaches, plums, etc., in the fall 
months. To do one's own canning and preserving means 
much warm work during the warm seasons, but it also 
means many dollars saved and a wholesome and bounteous 
table supply for the greater part of the year. Therefore^ 
every good housekeeper is interested in canning and pre- 
serving recipes, and it is hoped that among the following 
she will find many that will please her and perhaps point 
the way to new methods or combinations. 

Methods of Canning 

There are two canning methods most generally used, the 
first being to boil the fruit in a syrup and then filling into 
the jars and sealing while hot. The second method is a little 
more troublesome, but thought by many cooks to be the 
best. The glass cans are filled with the fruit and sugar or 
juice, raw or partly cooked, the covers adjusted loosely, and 
the cans then set in a boiler of water and boiled for a pre- 
scribed time. Hay or pieces of wood are first placed in the 
bottom of the boiler, and hay or cloths packed between the 
jars, so they will not crack, and the water is allowed to come 
almost but not quite up to the tops of the jars. The boiler 
is closely covered during the boiling process, to retain the 
steam. When they have boiled or steamed long enough the 
jars are removed from the boiler, each one filled full with 
juice or syrup, the rubbers adjusted, and the covers screwed 
down as tight as possible. 

217 



!218 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



About the Jars for Canning \ 

Of course, the jars must be perfectly clean, the covers ■ 
ditto, and fit exactly, and the rubbers new and of good quality. 

Sometimes, though very seldom, two old rubbers that seem | 

good can be used in place of one new one, but it is always I 

more or less of a risk to try this. Jars, covers and rubbers ■ 

about which there is the least bit of doubt had better be ' 

kept for very sweet or spiced preserves, catsups or hot rel- j 
ishes, that do not spoil easily. The wise housekeeper, as 
soon as she empties a glass jar of its contents, immediately 

washes and dries the jar, cover and rubber band, and puts ■ 

the jar away in a dust-proof place with the rubber band and \ 

a small lump of charcoal inside and the cover screwed on ; 
loosely. This saves time and trouble for the next canning 

season, when the task of fitting cans and covers is especially ; 

wearysome. However, if this was not done, it will be nee- ■ 

essary to try all the cans and covers. This is best done the i 

evening before they are wanted. Wash and rinse the jars ] 

and covers thoroughly, using some baking soda with hot j 

water, until you are sure each jar is sweet and clean. Then ! 

put some clean water in each jar, put on the rubbers and ' 
the covers that seem to fit best, screw tight, and let the jars 
stand on their heads all night. The leaky ones can then be 

easily taken out the next morning, and perhaps tried with \ 

other covers, or set aside for other use. The foregoing direc- j 

tions apply chiefly to the old-fashioned glass cans with ; 

zinc porcelain-lined covers — when the new glass covered \ 

snap or lightning jars are used, there need be no matching of ■ 

covers and jars. ' 

Heating and Filling Jars ! 

If hot fruit and syrup are poured into cold glass jars, they ; 
will immediately crack. Warm jars by placing them in hot 

water on the back of the stove, and when ready to fill stand ; 

the jars on a folded towel wrung out of hot water. A silver \ 

fork or spoon placed in the jar while it is being filled is also j 

said to be effective in preventing cracking from heat. The ' 

jars must be overflowing full when the covers are put on, ■ 

and great care should be taken that no air bubbles remain ; 

in the jar. To break these up, gently run a silver knif^ : 

through the contents, just before the final filling up. If not i 

quite enough syrup is on hand to fill the jars full to over- j 

flowing, a little boiling water may be poured in each. Seal \ 

while hot, screwing down the lids as tight as possible. Before ; 

they are quite cold, try if they can be screwed any tighter. ! 

If properly fitting covers and good, new rubbers were used, i 

the jars will be sealed air tight, but if there is any doubtJ ; 



CANNED CHERRIES AND PRESERVES 219 



about this, let them stand on their heads over night. Those 
that show any signs of leaking will have to be opened and 
the contents heated over again, and put in jars with better 
fitting covers. Store all canned goods in a cool, dark and 
dry place. A paper bag slipped over each jar will help ex- 
clude light. — [A. G., Mass. 

About Salicylic Acid 

A number of recipes for canning and preserving, which 
call for salicylic acid to help the preserving process, were 
received by the editor of this book, but have been omitted 
because it was deemed unwise to recommend them, inasmuch 
as salicylic acid, if used at all, must be used with the greatest 
caution. Salicylic acid is a drug which should only be pre- 
scribed by a competent physician fully aware of the condi- 
tion of his patient. It is dangerous to partake of it fre- 
quently, however small the quantity may be. What is meat 
lor one man may be poison for another. Chemical preserva- 
tives should never be used in putting up articles of food. 
Our national pure food laws have recently made wise pro- 
visions in this respect. — [Editor. 

Canned Cherries 

Pick cherries over carefully, discarding all wormy and un- 
ripe ones. Allow 1 cup sugar for each qt jar of fruit. Put 
the cherries and sugar in layers in the jars until they are 
nearly full, then arrange the jars in a boiler, first placing a 
layer of straw in the bottom of the boiler and also pack some 
straw between the jars. Cover the jars but do not put on 
the rubbers. Then pour enough water into the boiler to 
come nearly to the top of the jars but not enough so that 
any of it can run into the jars. Cover the boiler and let 
boil until the sugar in the jars is melted and forms a clear 
syrup. Meanwhile have more syrup in a preserving kettle, 
and when the fruit is ready, take out the jars, one at a 
time, fill up full with the boiling hot syrup, put on the rub- 
bers, and seal at once. Be sure to have the glass overflowing 
full with syrup. — [M. C, Va. 

To Can whole Cherries Cold 

Use freshly picked, carefully selected cherries, not over- 
ripe and with the stems on, wash and drain them carefully 
and fill into cans, but do not pit them or remove the stems, 
and be careful not to break the stems. Fill the cans with 
fresh cold water, shake well to be sure there are no air 
"bubbles in the can, then fill to overflowing with fresh water 



22 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

and seal at once. When opened they will be just like fresh 
picked cherries, and you can serve them Christmas time and set 
your guests to wondering where you got fresh cherries. They 
must be sealed air tight, and stored in a dark, dry and cool 
place. — [Mrs. L. W., O. 

Cherry Preserves 

Wash the cherries thoroughly at least 3 times, then drain 
well and weigh. To each lb cherries allow 1 lb sugar and boil 
until most of the cherries have broken to pieces. If liked, 
add 1 sliced lemon (seeds discarded), to every 4 qts of the 
preserves and boil together with the preserves until done. 
Put up in stone jars. — [Miss K. B., Minn. 

Sour Cherry Preserve 

For each lb carefully selected cherries, allow 1 lb sugar. 
Put the sugar in a perserving kettle and add 1 small cup cold 
water to every lb sugar and boil until the syrup is transparent, 
taking care not to let it scorch or burn, and skimming off 
all skum that rises to the surface. After this put in the 
cherries and let them boil for 15 minutes, then skim out the 
cherries and put them into glass jars. Let the syrup boil 
down some and add to it any of the juice that has drained 
off the cherries in the jar. When the syrup is boiled suffi- 
ciently, fill up the jars with it and seal at once. Store in a cool 
dark, and dry place. — [Mrs. O. M. P., N. H. 

Canned Baked Apples 

Fill a large pudding dish with sour apples, pared, cored 
and quartered. Sprinkle with % cup sugar for each qt apples 
and add a sprinkle of cinnamon if liked. Pour in about 1 
cup water, cover closely and bake several hours in a moderate 
oven, or until the apples turn red. Fill at once into hot fruit 
cans and seal air tight. — [I. A. S., Me. 

Candied Apples 

Preserve the apples in the usual way, using 1 lb sugar to 1 
lb fruit. When the apples are done and just before removing 
the kettle from the fire, dissolve 1 tablesp cream of tartar ■ 
(more or less according to the quantity of apples used) in a ., 
little water and add this to the preserved fruit, stirring • l 
gently. Pour the fruit into jars, let stand about 10 days or 2 j 
weeks, then drain the fruit from the syrup and spread on 
platters and let dry in a cool room, first dipping each piece \ 
of fruit in granulated sugar. This is a fine substitute for .| 
citron in cakes or puddings. — [L. E. M., Mich. i 



APPLES AND PINEAPPLES 221 

Pickled Apples 

Boil together 1 qt vinegar and 6 cups brown sugar. When 
it has come to a boil, skim and add 1 teasp each cloves, cin- 
namon and allspice, then fill the boiling spiced syrup full 
with sweet apples that have been washed and wiped dry, cut 
in halves and the cores removed. Do not pare the apples. 
Let boil until soft but not soft enough to break. Can and 
seal air tight. Give the cans a little shake, once in a while, 
when filling them, so the contents will settle down and the 
air bubbles break. Be sure to fill the cans overflowing full. 
— [M. P., N. H. 

Crabapple Preserves 

Allow 1 lb sugar for every lb of carefully selected ripe, 
red crabapples. Wipe the apples clean but leave the stems 
on and scald them in boiling water. Make a syrup of the 
sugar, adding a very little water, and when the sugar is boiled 
clear, put in the fruit and boil until soft. Then skim out the 
apples carefully and put them into jars. Boil the juice down 
until it is quite thick. Drain out the liquid collected in the 
jars and add it to the boiling juice. When sufficiently thick, 
pour it over the fruit, having each jar as full as possible. Seal 
while hot. These may be put up in small stone jars, but in 
that case, do not cover the jars until the contents are 
thoroughly cold. — [M. P., N. H. 

Spiced Crabapples 

Thoroughly heat 1 pt vinegar and 4 lbs sugar, then add 6 
lbs crabapples, chopped fine, 2 lbs raisins, seeded and chopped, 
the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, 1 teasp cloves and 2 
teasp cinnamon. Cook slowly until the apples are done. 
Can and seal. — [Mrs. F. D, D., N. Y. 

Canned Pineapple 

Pick out the eyes and peel, and slice % inch thick and core 
sound, ripe pineapples. Cut into small dice or chips and put 
over the fire in a preserving kettle, adding 1 cup sugar Tor 
each qt fruit, and water enough to cover. Cook until tender, 
then turn into jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs. C. W. K., 111. 

Canned Currants 

For 3 lbs carefully selected stemmed, washed and drained 
<;urrants, allow 1 lb sugar. Put the fruit and the sugar 
together to boil about 10 minutes or until the juice is pretty 
well extracted, then carefully skim out the fruit and let the 
juice boil about 20 minutes, after which return the fruit 
to the juice again and let cook long enough to heat through. 
Then can and seal air tight. — [Mrs. B. B., Mo. 



222 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



To Can Currants Cold 

Select good, ripe currants, remove stems, wash and drain, 
and allow equal weight of sugar. Wash the currants and be 
sure that every single one is crushed. Mix thoroughly with 
the sugar and let stand over night. Next morning stir well, 
and when all the sugar is dissolved, put it in air-tight fruit 
cans and set away in a cool, dark and dry place. Be sure 
to have the cans full and to pack them closely, so that no air 
hubbies will remain in them. — [Mrs. W. L. J., Vt. 

Spiced Currants 

Put 1 tablesp ground cinnamon and 1 teasp whole cloves 
in a little cheese cloth bag and let it simmer slowly about 15 
minutes with 1 cup vinegar and 4 lbs sugar. Then add 4 -lbs 
currants and boil slowly till rich and thick. Remove spice 
bag and can and seal while hot. Stoned cherries may be 
prepared the same way. Boil 1 cup cherry stones in the bag 
with the spices. — [Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 

Quince Preserves 

Pare and quarter the fruit, removing the core and hard 
parts, then weigh and allow % lb sugar to 1 lb quinces. 
Cover the fruit with water and boil slowly until tender. Then 
skim out the fruit, strain the juice if necessary, put the sugar 
in the juice, and cook and skim until it is a thick syrup, then 
return the quinces to the syrup and cook until they are of 
the desired shade and thickness. Put up hot in air-tight jars. 
The flavor will be improved if a tart apple or a little apple 
juice is added. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Canned Grapes 

Pick carefully selected ripe grapes from stems and put 
in 1-qt jars. Allow 1 cup sugar and 3 cups water for each 
qt can and boil until it syrups. Place the grape-filled cans on 
the stove shelf, where they may become warm, have a tea- 
kettle filled with freshly boiled water, and when the cans 
are thoroughly warmed so they will not break, fill 1 can at 
a time as rapidly as possible with clear boiling water, pour off 
immediately, and then fill with the boiling syrup and seal at 
once.— [Mrs. M. B. W., N. Y. 

Canned Grapes (Xo Sugar) 

Use only good, ripe grapes, separate pulp and skins, throw- 
ing them in separate vessels. Put the pulp over the fire with a 



GRAPE AND PEAR PRESERVES 223^ 



very little water and boil slowlj^ until the seeds separate. 
Then rub through a sieve to remove the seeds, return the pulp 
to the preserving kettle containing the skins, and cook well 
together, stirring often to prevent scorching. When the skins- 
are tender, fill into jars and seal air tight. — [Miss E. K., Ind. 

Grape Preserves I 

Pick over ripe grapes, carefully discarding faulty ones, 
press out pulp, preserving skins or hulls. For every lb hulls 
allow 1 lb brown sugar. Put in preserving kettle and let 
stand over night, then put over the fire and cook until thick. 
This makes a very rich and "winey" preserve. It needs no 
flavoring. The pulp can be boiled with a very little water 
and then rubbed through a colander to remove the seeds^ 
and then boiled with an equal quantity of sugar for jam. — - 
[Mrs. G. W. C, Tex. 

Grape Preserves 11 

Use only good, ripe grapes, wash and drain, separate the 
pulps and skins and throw them in separate vessels. Cook 
the skins with barely enough water to cover and cook the 
pulp in another kettle in its own juice until the seeds separate, 
then rub through a colander and add the strained pulp to the 
skins, which should have boiled nearly dry by that time. 
Measure and allow an equal measure of sugar. After the 
pulp has been added to the skins, let this mixture cook 20 
minutes, stirring often, then add i/4 of the sugar and boil 5 
minutes, add another % of the sugar, again boil 5 minutes, 
and proceed this way until the sugar is all used and the skins 
are soft. — [L. A. S., Me. 

Spiced Grapes 

Separate the pulps and skins of 4 qts grapes, putting them 
in separate vessels. Cook the pulp until the seeds separate, 
then strain through a colander and add to the skins with 
ZV2 lbs brown sugar, i/^ pt vinegar, 1 tablesp cinnamon, and 
Vz tablesp each cloves and allspice. Boil slowly about 2% 
hours, or until the skins are tender. — [P. M. P., Mass. 

Canned Pears 

Put 1 teasp each of cinnamon and nutmeg in a little cheese 
cloth bag and drop it into a syrup made of 1 V2 lbs sugar and 
1^/^ cups water. Slice in 2 lemons, pits removed, and let boil 
until it thickens like syrup. Then add 3 lbs ripe pears, 
weighed after peeling, and cook until the pears are done 
and of a delicate pink color. Remove the spice bag before 
pouring into jars. Seal while hot. — [C. B. H., Mich. 



224 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Chipped or Spiced Pears 

Cut 8 lbs pears into small dice or chips, cover with 6 lbs 
sugar, and let stand over night. Next morning add the grated 
rind and juice of 3 lemons and 2 ozs white ginger root. Sim- 
mer slowly about 3 hours and can while hot. — [Mrs. L. G., Cal. 

Canned Plums 



Wash 2 lbs plums, red, blue, yellow or green Gage. Prick ; 
them with a silver fork or a steel knitting needle (to keep j 
the skins from breaking while boiling) and then put the i 
plums whole into a thick, boiling syrup made by boiling j 
together 1 lb sugar and 1 pt water. Boil the plums in this j 
mixture about 8 or 10 minutes, or until tender. Seal while i 
hot. Cherries may be canned in the same manner. — [K. A. D., ■ 

:n. d. I 

j 

Preserved Plums ' \ 

\ 
Make a syrup of 1 lb sugar and % cup water and when boil- i 
ing briskly, drop in 1 lb plums that have been washed and ; 
drained, cut in halves and the pits removed. Boil gently until \ 
the plums are done. Seal while hot in glass jars. — [Mrs. E. E. ^ 
T., Va. ] 

I 
Spiced Plums ■ 

Wash and prick % gal plums, cover with water and boil 5 , 
minutes, then pour off the water and add to the plums 3 lbs ! 
sugar, 1 pt vinegar and 1 teasp each ground cloves, allspice i 
and cinnamon. Boil about 30 minutes, stirring frequently. ] 
Can and seal while hot. — [M. B., 111. i 

Canned Whole Peaches i 

Select firm, medium sized peaches, free from decay, a trifle i 
under-ripe is better than over-ripe, pare, but do not remove I 
the stones. Throw the fruit into cold water as fast as pared | 
to keep it from turning dark, but do not let it remain long in ; 
the water, or the flavor will be lost. Make a syrup of 1 pt i 
sugar and 1 qt water for every 4 lbs peaches. Place the fruit, I 
after draining off, in a shallow, wide preserving kettle, and : 
pour the hot syrup over it and cook gently until the fruit is \ 
easily pierced by a straw. Transfer the fruit carefully to glass ; 
jars, fill almost to the top with hot syrup, then run a silver ; 
knife around inside the jar to let out the air bubbles. Pill ; 
quickly overflowing full with the hot syrup and screw down I 
the cover as tight as possible. If some of the juice overflows j 



CANNED PEACHES AND CITRON PRESERVES 225 

on the rubber during the sealing process, it will do no injury, 
but will rather aid in the sealing. Peaches canned whole in 
this way are delicious — much better than when the stones are 
removed, as they impart a fine flavor. — [L. O. C, Ala. 

To Can Peaches Without Boiling 

Peel good, not over-ripe peaches, cut in halves and fill into 
jars which have been placed in boiling water. Then cover imme- 
diately with a hot syrup made of 1 pt sugar and 1^ pts 
water. Have the cans overflowing full and be sure there are 
no air bubbles in them. Then seal at once while hot and 
allow the cans to stand submerged in hot water until they have 
all cooled. This method far surpasses the old-fashioned 
method of canning, and the fruit will retain its fresh flavor. — ■ 
[A. McL., 111. This method is also vouched for by Mrs. E. F. 
G., N. Y. 

Peach Preserves 

Pare peaches and mix with sugar and let stand over night. 
Allow 4 lbs sugar to 5 lbs fruit. Next morning, put over the 
fire and boil 20 minutes, then skim out the fruit with a per- 
forated spoon and spread on a flat dish to cool and harden. 
Let the syrup boil until it almost begins to candy, then return 
the fruit to the syrup and boil very slowly 10 minutes. Seal 
in glass jars while hot. If the syrup has not cooked long 
enough, the preserves are likely to ferment, and the riper the 
fruit, the longer it will take to boil the water out of the syrup. 
— [Mrs. A. A. W., N. C. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Prepare a syrup of 4 lbs brown sugar, 1 qt best cider vine- 
gar and 2 ozs stick cinnamon. Boil 20 minutes. Prepare 
peaches by putting them a few minutes in boiling water and 
slipping off the skins. Put enough of these peeled peaches in 
the syrup to cover the bottom of the kettle, and cook until 
tender. Fill glass jars with the peaches, pour the boiling syrup 
over them and seal. — [M. B. G., Wis. 

Preserved Citron Melons 

Peel the melons, remove the seeds and cut into small slices 
about V2 inch thick. For every 6 lbs melon allow 3 lbs sugar, 
the juice and yellow rind of 4 lemons and a small piece of 
green ginger root. Boil the melons in a little water about 
V2 hour, or until they look clear and can be pierced with a 
straw. Then drain, cover with cold water and let stand over 



226 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



night. Next morning tie the ginger root in a cheese cloth bag 
and boil it in 3 pts water until the water is highly flavored 
with the ginger. Then remove the ginger, add the sugar, and 
when the sugar is melted, add the thin yellow peel of the lem- 
ons and boil and skim until no more skum rises. Remove the 
lemon peel and add the lemon juice and the sliced citron, thor- 
oughly drained from the cold water, and boil all together 
until the citron is quite transparent and soft, but not soft 
enough to break. Can while hot in air-tight jars. — [Miss J. 
R. W., Kan. 

Watermelon Preserves 

Pare the green rind from the melon, discard the soft pulp 
and seeds, using only the solid parts of the rind. Cut into 
small pieces, weigh and allow 7 lbs sugar for 10 lbs melon, 2 
sliced lemons, seeds discarded and a little piece of ginger root 
(the ginger may be omitted if the flavor is not liked). Boil 
all together until the melon is clear and the juice is thick. — 
[Mrs. B. F. G., 111. 

Cantaloupe Preserves 

Half ripe cantaloupe or muskmelons are best for preserves. 
Remove peel and seeds, cut in small pieces and for every 3 
lbs melon, allow 2 lbs sugar. Put melons and sugar in pre- 
serving kettle and let stand a few hours to draw the juice, 
then boil until the syrup is thick and the fruit tender. Can 
while hot in air-tight jars. Any flavoring that is liked may be 
added while boiling. — [Mrs. S. B., Tex. 

Preserved Elderberries 

To 7 lbs elderberries add boiling water to cover. Let stand 
about 15 minutes and then drain. Chop fine 3 lemons, remov- 
ing seeds, then add them to the drained elderberries with % 
pt vinegar and 5 lbs sugar. Let boil about 15 minutes, then 
skim out the berries and boil the juice down thick, after which 
add the berries again and boil 13 minutes longer. Can be 
put up in stone jars or discarded jars for canning, that are not 
air tight. — [Miss L. M. B., N. Y. 

Canned Huckleberries 

Put 6 qts huckleberries and 2 lbs sugar in a preserving ket- 
tle over the fire and let simmer gently a few minutes until the 
sugar is melted, then allow them to come to a boil and boil 4 
or 5 minutes. Can at once in air-tight jars. — [Mrs. C. vonW.» 
N. J. 



CANNED BLUEBERRIES AND GOOSEBERRIES 227 



Canned Blueberries 

Pick over carefully and wash and drain ripe blueberries, 
and stew them in their own juice, with a very little water 
added at first to keep the lower ones from sticking to the ket- 
tle. When all are well cooked through turn them at once into 
warm jars and seal air tight. They will keep without sugar 
and are nice for pies. — [L. A. S., Me. 

Canned Gooseberries — Green or Wild 

Remove stems and flower ends and wash carefully in warm 
water and drain thoroughly. To 1 qt gooseberries add 1 cup 
water and 2 cups sugar. Cook slowly 1 hour and then turn 
into fruit cans and seal while hot. This will keep indefinitely 
if sealed air tight and stored in a dark, cool place. — [Mrs. L. 
A. G., Me. 

To Can Gooseberries Without Sugar 

Remove stem and blossom ends from carefully selected ripe 
gooseberries and put in a preserving kettle with just enough 
water to come up through them, but not quite cover them. Let 
boil just long enough for the gooseberries to turn from the 
original color to a clear yellow, and then pour into jars and 
seal immediately. Canned in this way they retain their 
natural, fresh flavor. — [Mrs. B. T. W., Mo. 

Rhubarb and Gooseberry Preserves 

Boil together equal parts of rhubarb and gooseberries, and 
when soft, strain through a sieve, then return to the fire and 
boil until it looks clear and begins to thicken. Then add 
sugar of equal weight with the fruit, measured before boiling, 
and boil about 15 minutes longer. Pour into jelly glasses or 
jars, and when perfectly cold, cover with melted paraffine or 
paper. This need not be sealed air tight. — [Mrs. F. E. A.i 
Wash. ' -' 

Spiced Blackberries 

To 5 qts blackberries add 1 qt vinegar, 3 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp 
cloves and V2 tablesp each allspice and cinnamon. Put the 
spices in a cheese cloth bag and boil them with the berried 
until they are of the consistency of preserves. Remove the! 
spice bag and can, not necessarily air tight. — [Mrs. S. Q., 
Tenn. 



228 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Canned Raspberries 

Fill fruit jars with carefully selected ripe, red raspberries, 
and fill full to overflowing with a thick hot syrup made of 
sugar and water. Seal the jars tight and submerge them in a 
tank or boiler of boiling hot water, and allow them to remain 
there until they are cold. Cover the boiler and throw a carpet 
or quilt over it to retain the heat. Be sure the cans are sealed 
air tight. — [Mrs. R. K., Pa. 

Raspberry Preserves 

Make a thick syrup by boiling together 2 cups sugar and % 
cup water, and when clear add 2 cups carefully selected ripe 
red raspberries, and boil 5 minutes longer. Can air tight. 
This make 1 pt. — [Mrs. R. K., Pa. 

To Can Raspberries Without Cooking 

Wash, drain and mash ripe, red raspberries. Be sure that 
each berry is thoroughly mashed. Add an equal measure of 
sugar and stir, on and off, for 3 or 4 hours, or until all the 
sugar is melted and the acid gases have evaporated. Then fill 
into jars, pack tight and overflowing full, and seal air tight. 
"When opened this will taste like the fresh berries, and is nice 
to use for shortcakes. — [Mrs. R. K., Pa. 

Canned Strawberries 

Allow 2 qts strawberries for a 1-qt jar. Select only the fin- 
est berries, fully ripe and of a deep, dark color. Hull, wash 
and drain 2 qts berries. Put about 2 or 3 tablesp berries on 
a plate and with a fork crush each berry and mix together 
thoroughly. Put these crushed berries in a preserving kettle 
with 1 cup of the best granulated sugar and put over the fire 
and let it heat up. When the sugar is dissolved put in what 
remains of the 2 qts of berries, and as soon as they have 
boiled and heated through thoroughly, carefully skim them 
out, put them in a glass jar, and if the remaining syrup seems 
too thin, or there is more than needed for filling the jar, let 
it boil down some more and then pour it boiling hot over the 
berries in the jar. Never attempt to do more than 2 qts at a 
time, in the manner described above. Any remaining juice 
should be boiled down to a jelly with the addition of a little 
more sugar, or it may be bottled and sealed, to use as a fla- 
Toring for sauces, cakes, ice cream or sherbet. Be sure to use 
only the best berries, fully ripe and of a dark red color, and 
be snre to use only the best granulated sugar. Can and seal 
while hot and use the same precautions as in canning all other 
fruits. Set away in a cool, dark and dry place. — [Mrs. R. B. 
v., Okla. 



CANNED AND PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 229 



Canned Strawberries Without Cooking 

Fill a qt can about % full of selected ripe strawberries, 
which have been hulled, washed and thoroughly drained, and 
then pour over them a syrup made by boiling together 5 min- 
utes 1 V2 cups sugar and 1 cup water. Pour the syrup over the 
fruit boiling hot, and seal at once. Screw down the covers as 
tight as possible and then set the jars in a pail or boiler and 
fill up with boiling water, entirely covering the cans. Cover 
the boiler and throw a thick cloth or carpet over it, and leave 
it undisturbed until the water is cold. Then take out the jars, 
and if the covers can be screwed any tighter, do so. This will 
keep very nicely for a year or more, and they will be found to 
be of a delicious, fresh flavor when opened. — [Mrs. W. G., 
N. Y. 

Strawberry Preserves 

Hull, wash, drain and mash 4 qts strawberries and put 
them over the fire in a preserving kettle and bring slowly to a 
boil. Then strain through a jelly bag, pressing to extract the 
juice. To every pt juice add 1 pt sugar and boil all together 
briskly about 10 minutes, removing all skum that arises to 
the surface. Then, add 4 qts firm, ripe berries, and simmer 
gently for 10 minutes, after which skim out the berries care- 
fully, place into jars, fill with the boiling hot syrup, and seal 
at once. Raspberries may be preserved the same way, with 
the juice of 1 lemon added to every 4 lbs raspberries. — [Mrs. 
J. P. D., Neb. 

Baked Canned Rhubarb 

Cut up rhubarb, mix with the required amount of sugar, 
and put in a covered dish in hot oven, but add no water. 
When done, this will be a fine, rich sauce. Can while hot. — 

When rhubarb is in season, can a lot of the juice made into 
a thin syrup. It will help to make a fine jelly when cherries 
are ripe by using V2 rhubarb and Vz cherry juice. — [P. W. C, 
N. Y. 

To Can Rhubarb in Cold Water 

Fresh, tender, young rhubarb need not be peeled as a rule. 
Wash, cut up in small pieces, pack into cans and fill with 
pure, running cold water. Let settle, then fill with water 
again, fill to overflowing, and seal air tight. Keep in a cool, 
dark and dry place, and when wanted, simply drain off the 
water and proceed as with fresh rhubarb. — [Mrs. D. W. B 
N. Y. 



230 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Canned Rhubarb and Strawberries 

Peel rhubarb, cut in small pieces and put over fire with 1 
qt sugar and a very little water. When done add 1 qt strawber- 
ries, cook about 5 or 10 minutes longer, and can and seal 
while hot. — [Mrs. E. F. H<, N. Y. 

Preserved Pumpkin 

Slice 5 lbs pumpkin and 5 lemons in thin slices, discarding 
seeds, add 5 lbs sugar, mix thoroughly, and let stand in an 
earthen vessel about 2 days, in a cold place, after which let it 
boil gently till the pumpkin is clear and almost transparent. 
Can and seal. — [Mrs. C. L. C, Mass. 

To Can Pumpkins or Squash 

As soon as my pumpkins or squash show signs of not keep- 
ing, I peel and cut them up and boil them till well done in 
just enough water to cover, then can and seal in air-tight jars. 
The cans must be overflowing full and the juice must cover 
the pumpkins, and all other canning precautions must be 
strictly observed. — [Mrs. A. W. S., Pa. 

Canned Sweet Red Peppers 

Wash dry 1 pk red bell peppers, cut a thin slice from the stem 
end of each and remove the seeds, then cut round and round 
the peppers with a pair of scissors, making strips ^4 inch wide 
and as long as possible — in one piece, if this can be managed, 
something like a one-piece apple paring. Next cover the pep- 
per strips with boiling water, then drain off the water imme- 
diately and repeat this if the peppers are liked very mild. 
Next, put into ice water, using plenty of ice to chill thoroughly, 
then drain and pack solidly in pt jars. Boil 1 qt vinegar and 
2 cups sugar to the consistency of syrup, pour over the pep- 
pers in the jars and seal. Keep in a cold, dark and dry place. 
The above quantities will fill 4 pt jars. Peppers thus prepared 
retain their pretty red color and are nice for garnishing salads 
or for making cheese and pepper sandwiches. — [E. G. C, 
Washington, D. C. j 

To Can Cucumbers Sweet 

Select firm cucumbers about 2 inches long, wash and dry | 

carefully and pack in a gal jar with small pieces of horse- ■ 

radish. Bring 1 qt cider vinegar and 1 cup sugar to a boil ; 

and pour it over the cucumbers, while boiling hot. Cover and ! 

set away in a cool place over night. Next morning drain off | 



CANNED PEAS AND STRING BEANS 231 



the vinegar, boil it over again, and pour it over the cucum- 
bers, and repeat this 3 mornings, after which seal air tight 
and keep in a cool, dark and dry place. The can should be 
full to overflowing when sealed. — [Mrs. E. R. McC, Tenn. 

Cucumber Preserves 

Use firm, ripe cucumbers, just turning yellow, peel, dis- 
card seeds and cut in 2 or 3-inch pieces. Soak in weak salt 
water about 8 hours, then drain and dry carefully with a clean 
towel and drop into a boiling syrup made of 2 qts cider vine- 
gar, 2^ lbs sugar and ^/^ oz mixed whole spices. Put the 
spices in a small cheese cloth bag. Boil slowly 20 minutes, 
then take out the spice bag and boil the cucumbers in the 
syrup until they are soft and transparent, after which skim 
out the pieces, drain thoroughly, put them in a glass jar, 
boil syrup until thick, pour over the cucumbers, and seal. — 
[Mrs. J. D. C. Cal. 

To Can Peas 

Can peas immediately after gathering. Shell them, and 
pack them in the cans as tightly as possible without breaking 
them, add a little salt, then fill the cans overflowing full with 
cold water, pouring it in until all bubbles have disappeared. 
Put on rubbers and covers, but do not screw the covers tight. 
Place the cans in a boiler with the usual packing on the bot- 
tom and between the cans, pour in cold water within an inch 
of the tops of the cans, cover the boiler, bring to a boil, and 
boil for 3 hours. Then remove boiler from fire, screw the 
covers on the cans as tightly as possible, and leave in the hot 
water until cold. — [Miss G. R., N. Y. 

To Can String Beans 

Wash, drain and break in pieces tender, meaty, freshly gath- 
ered, green string beans or butter beans, and cook until almost 
done in well salted water. Turn into glass jars, and into each 
can pour 2 tablesp hot vinegar. Fill up with the juice and seal 
air tight. When ready to use, if the beans are too salty, or the 
vinegar taste is not liked, soak them a little in clear water, and 
finish by cooking them with salt pork. — [Mrs. S. D. F., O. 

To Can String Beans With Bacon 

String tender, freshly gathered beans, break in small pieces, 
and put over the fire with water enough to cover. Place a 
piece of boneless breakfast bacon in the center of the beans. 
Use about 1 lb bacon to % pk beans. Cook until tender, then 
pack the beans in cans, hot. Lay a slice of bacon on the top of 



232 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

each, about V4, inch thick, cover well with the liquid in which 
the beans were boiled, and seal. Be sure that there are no air 
bubbles in the can. This recipe has been used in our family for 
three generations, and if properly packed, free from air, and 
sealed air tight, the beans thus canned will keep two years or 
more. When ready to use, heat the beans thoroughly, and they 
are ready to serve, and will be found to be as delicious as if 
they had just come from the garden. — [Mrs. E. E. W., Pa 

To Can Beets 

Cook and peel the beets in the usual way. To each qt beets 
allow V2 pt vinegar and ^/^ pt water, to which add V2 cup 
sugar, y2 teasp mixed spices, and a little horseradish, which 
keeps the beets from turning white. Let all come to a boil, 
drop in the beets, boil up once more, and fill the cans with 
beets, being careful to cover them fully with the spiced vine- 
gar. Seal air tight in the usual way. — [Mrs. L. W., Ind. 

Canned Sweet Corn I 

Only good, deep, milky, ripe corn is worth while canning. 
Pick, strip and cook immediately, the same as for table use. 
Then with a sharp knife shave off the kernels, but do not cut 
too near the cob. After cutting scrape the balance of the corn 
and milk from the cobs, using the back of a silver knife. Use 
2 tablesp salt for each qt corn and add a very little sugar, if 
liked, but if the corn is sweet, sugar will not be necessary. 
Put over the fire in a porcelain-lined kettle with barely enough 
water to cover and let it boil until tender, stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. Fill jars while boiling hot, to within V2 
inch of the top, being careful to pack solidly and to break all 
the air bubbles by running a silver spoon or fork through the 
contents. Then fill to overflowing with melted butter and 
screw on the covers tightly. When opened freshen corn in 
clear water, add a little milk, and it will taste like fresh corn. 
— [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. 

Canned Sweet Corn II 

Pick, cut and scrape corn as directed in recipe No. 1. Then 
measure the corn and to 6 qts allow 1 oz tartaric acid. "When 
the corn is done, dissolve the acid in some hot water, stir it in 
and cook 5 minutes longer. Then can and seal while hot. 
When ready to use, heat the corn, dissolve V2 teasp bi-carbon- 
ate of soda in a little water or milk and stir this into the corn, 
adding seasoning to taste. Canned thus, I have been told that 
mine tasted just like the canned, tinned corn bought in stores. 
— [No name. 



CANNED CORN AND TOMATOES 233 



Canned Corn Salad 

To 18 ears green corn, cut from the cob, add 4 large onions, 
? green peppers or 1 ripe pepper, 1 large white cabbage, all 
Cllopped fine, scant ^ cup salt and 1 qt vinegar. Cook about 
15 minutes. Boil together 1 qt vinegar, 2 tablesp ground 
mustard, 1 teasp cinnamon, 2 cups sugar and 1 scant cup flour. 
When done add to the above mixture and cook all together 
until thoroughly mixed and heated through. Can hot and seal. 
— [R. W., Mo. 

Canned Corn and Tomatoes 

Select perfectly sound, ripe tomatoes and full tender corn. 
Peel the tomatoes and remove the green cores. Cut and 
scrape the corn from the cob and boil the corn and tomatoes 
together, allowing a cup of tomatoes to a qt of corn. Salt, boil 
until done and can in the usual way. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Green Tomato Preserves 

For each lb green tomatoes allow % lb sugar, and l^ lemon. 
Melt the sugar in a very little water, add the grated rind and 
juice of the lemon then put in the green tomatoes, washed, 
trimmed and cut in quarters, but not peeled. Cook gently 
until tomatoes are tender and transparent. If desired, a little 
ginger root can be cooked with the tomatoes, or the preserves 
can be flavored with cinnamon or cloves. This will keep with- 
out sealing air tight, but it is better to put up in small jars, as 
it is so rich that only a little is wanted at a time. — [L. S., Me. 

To Can Ripe Tomatoes 

Use only good, firm, ripe tomatoes, discarding all doubtful 
and imperfect ones. Peel with a sharp knife, or by scalding 
them in hot water a few minutes, cut out all the hard parts, 
and cut the tomatoes in halves or quarters, according to their 
size. Put in a perfectly clean preserving kettle of agate ware, 
or porcelain lined, and be sure that no taste or odor, or any 
sign of its previous contents are noticeable. Set on the back of 
the stove a few minutes to extract the juices, then draw to the 
front and let them boil 15 or 20 minutes, or until tender, and 
thoroughly heated through. A little salt to taste may be 
added, if desired, but it is not necessary, and the tomatoes may 
be strained or not, before canning. I think it is better not to 
strain them. Have the sterilized jars and covers ready in the 
usual way, fill up the jars with the boiling hot tomatoes, pass 
a silver fork or spoon through the contents to cut the air bub- 
bles, shake the jar gently to settle contents, and when you are 
absolutely sure that it is packed as closely as possible, and 



234 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



there are no more air bubbles in the can, fill to overflowing 
with the juice and screw on the hot covers as tight as possible. 
Put no more of the juice in the cans than necessary. The sur- 
plus juice can be bottled and sealed separately and used for 
soup flavorings, etc. If the tomatoes were good, and no 
decayed spots or particles were allowed to slip in, and if the 
jars and covers were properly sterilized, and the rubbers were 
new, and the covers fitted perfectly, and if no air was canned in 
with the tomatoes, then there is absolutely no reason why they 
should spoil. Be absolutely sure that the jars are sealed air 
tight, and when cooled brush edge of the lids with melted par- 
afline. Do not lift the cans by the tops as this would loosen 
the lids. Slip a paper bag over each can, and store in a cool, 
dark and dry place. It is best not to attempt to can tomatoes 
on a very hot, or sultry day, when the air is damp and full of 
unwholesome germs, and it is also best not to attempt to do 
too much canning in one day. — [A. G., Mass. 

Spiced Ripe Tomatoes 

To 12 lbs ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, add 4 lbs brown 
sugar, 1 qt vinegar, 1 tablesp each allspice and cloves and 2 
tablesp cinnamon. Cook until thick, stirring often to prevent 
scorching, and seal while hot. — [Mrs. W. G., Mo. 

To Can Dandelion or Other Greens 

Pick the dandelion greens before they are in bud or blossom, 
digging down deep for them. Discard all the tough leaves and 
buds, wash and rinse thoroughly, and cook until tender in 
salted water. Then drain and pack into the cans while hot, 
and fill with clear, boiling hot water, and then screw on covers 
loosely. Be sure that there are no air spaces or air bubbles 
left in the cans. Place the cans in a boiler of water, proceed- 
ing in the usual manner, and boil for 15 minutes, after which 
seal tight. Beet, mustard, spinach and other greens can be 
canned in the same way. — [B. F. H., Me. 



I 



Cherries should be washed well several times to remove that 
strong taste so common to cherry preserves. — [Mrs. M. M. B., 
Mo. 

Mulberries will not keep if canned alone. They should be 
combined with gooseberries, or with the juice of rhubarb. — 
[E. H., 111. 

The best apples for preserving are the old-fashioned "sweet- 
ing," as they will not boil to pieces like tart apples. They 
require the same proportions and treatment as the peach. — 
[Mrs. A. A. W.. N. C. 




Jellies, Jams and Marmalades 

Y the time winter sets in, jellies, jams and 
marmalades are in great demand, and it 
therefore behooves the careful housewife 
to put up a goodly supply of these delec- 
table sweets. When made at home from 
good material, by the following recipes, 
they will prove to be as palatable as they are wholesome. 
For jellies, fruit not yet fully ripe is best, and for jams, 
marmalades or "butters" (which are almost identical in 
composition), fully ripe fruit may be used and such that 
are not perfect enough for canning whole, but are never- 
theless all right for cutting up and boiling down with 
sugar. It is a waste of time and sugar to try to use fruit 
that is not good — therefore, don't. 

Some Jelly Rules 

The principal rules governing jelly making from fruit, 
applicable to almost all kinds of berries and fruits, are as 
follows: Berries or fruit should not be too ripe. They are in 
the best state just before ripening. Use only sound fruit, 
pick over carefully, wash and drain, mash, and put over a 
slow fire to extract the juices. In the case of very juicy 
fruit, water need not be added, and for others a very little 
water will do — just enough to prevent burning. When done 
and the juices run freely from the fruit, turn into a jelly bag 
and let drain all night. Do not squeeze the bag to extract 
the juice, unless the recipe especially calls for such a proceed- 
ing, as otherwise the juice will become cloudy. The pulp 
that remains can often be used for jams or marmalades or 
pies, with the addition of sugar and spices. 

In the morning measure the juice, and then measure out 
the same quantity of sugar, or a little less in the case of 
naturally sweet fruit. Put the sugar in the oven to heat, 
but be careful not to let it burn. Put the juice over the 
fire in a granite or porcelain-lined kettle kept strictly for 
such purposes, and allow it to boil briskly from 15 to 20 
minutes. Then add the hot sugar, stir until dissolved, and 
boil 5 to 10 minutes longer. Test, and remove from the 
fire as soon as it is ready to "jell." Pour at once into clean. 



236 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



warm, dry glasses, placed on a folded towel wrung out of 
liot water, cover with mosquito netting, and let get cold. 
The next morning cover the top of the jelly in each glass 
with fitted rounds of white paper dipped in brandy or alcohol, 
and either pour over a layer of melted paraffine, or cover with 
several layers of paper, securely tied down over the sides of 
the glasses. Set away in a cool, dry and dark place. — [A. G., 
Mass. 

About Preserving Kettles and Jelly Bags 

Never use a kettle in which meats, vegetables, pickles, etc., 
have been cooked, for canning or sweet preserving, no matter 
how carefully you may clean it. It will always retain some of 
the old cooking flavor and mar the preserve products. It is 
economy to keep one or more good granite or porcelain-lined 
kettles specially for jellies, jams and marmalades. Clean at 
once after each using, and do not be content with the ordinary 
washing, but fill with hot water, add a teasp of baking 
soda, and let stand a while to sweeten the kettle, and also 
to remove fruit discolorations. Never use rough scouring 
soap to clean the inside of a preserving kettle, as that would 
ruin the enamel and cause the contents to burn so much more 
easily. 

Jelly bags are best made of cheese cloth, of one or two 
thicknesses. Some cooks prefer flannel, claiming that the 
juice will come through this clearer. If the jelly bags are 
made in pointed, oval shape, about 12 inches wide (double) 
on top and tapering down to 3 or 4 inches at the bottom, 
that will be found to be much more convenient and satis- 
factory. A cheap wire extension arm used for hanging up 
bird cages is a great convenience in the kitchen in preserving 
time. The jelly bag can be hung up on this, and the drip 
vessel placed on a chair directly beneath. If flies or gnats 
are plentiful, envelop the bag, bowl and chair with a mosquito 
netting. — [A. G., Mass. 

Spiced Apple Jelly 

For V2 pk sour apples allow 2 pts vinegar, 1 pt water, 
1% ozs stick cinnamon, and 1 oz whole cloves. Boil all 
together, and drain through a jelly bag over night. For 
every pt juice allow 1 lb sugar, and boil until it jellies. This 
is nice served with meat. — [Mrs. H. J. T., Vt. 

Apple Jelly 

Wipe the apples carefully, remove stem and blossom ends, 
cut out affected parts, and cut in quarters, discarding all 
wormy apples. Put over the fire in a preserving kettle with 



APPLE AND CURRANT JELLY 237 

cold water to half cover. Cook slowly until the apples are 
soft. If a few elderberries or blackberries are cooked with 
the apples the color will be much improved. Strain through 
jelly bag over night. Next morning measure juice and for 
each cup allow % cup sugar. Set sugar in oven, boil the 
juice 2 minutes, add hot sugar, boil 5 minutes longer, and 
then turn into jelly glasses. — [Mrs. C. J. H., Vt. 

Apple and Grape Jelly 

' Cook grapes and apples separately until soft, then drain 
in separate bags over night. To 1 part grape juice add 2 
parts apple juice, and allow two-thirds as much sugar as you 
have combined juice (measured before boiling). Add sugar 
hot to juice, after it has boiled 20 minutes, and let boil a few 
minutes longer, or until it is ready to "jell." — [Mrs. J. J. C, 
Mich. 

Quince Jelly 

This ihay be made of parings, if a little of the whole 
fruit is added, but all seeds must be removed, and blossom 
and stem ends. Almost cover with cold water, cook until 
very soft, then strain through a jelly bag over night. Allow 
% pt sugar to 1 pt juice. Boil the juice from 15 to 20 
minutes, skim, and then add sugar which should have been 
thoroughly heated in oven. Let boil up a few minutes, and 
then turn into glasses. One-half quince and one-half apple 
makes a very nice jelly. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Red Currant Jelly 

Select not too ripe currants, pick over carefully, put them 
in a preserving kettle, and let stand on back of range until 
juices draw. Stir occasionally until skins are broken, and 
then pour into jelly bag and let drain over night. To each 
pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Put sugar in oven to heat, put 
juice over fire, and boil and skim 20 minutes, then add hot 
sugar, until melted, and let boil up again a few minutes, 
after which remove from fire and fill at once into jelly 
glasses. Let them stand in the sun as long as possible that 
day, but be careful to cover the glasses with a netting to 
prevent any flies from falling in. Jelly made by this formula 
will be clear, and have that sparkle so much admired and 
desired. Other berry or fruit jellies can be made in the 
same manner. — [L. E. B., Ind. 

Black Currant Jelly 

Boil black currants in almost as much water as you have 
fruit. Drain in jelly bag over night, and for each qt juice 
allow 1 pt sugar. Boil 3 hours. Black currant needs longer 
boiling then other jellies. — [Mrs. A. L. C, Okla. 



238 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Grape Jelly 

Use grapes that are just beginning to ripen, but not quite 
ripe. Pick, wasli and boil slowly with a very little water 
about 15 minutes. Strain through jelly bag over night, 
then heat juice to boiling point, add an equal quantity of 
sugar, thoroughly heated in oven, and boil briskly about 5 
minutes, and then turn at once into jelly glasses. Green, 
grape jelly can also be made by this recipe. — [R. M. P., Mass. 

Green Grape Jelly 

Wash and pick over grapes carefully, partly cover with 
water, and let boil until soft, stirring and mashing while 
they are cooking. Turn into jelly bag and let drain over 
night, then boil juice 20 minutes, skim, and to each pt juice 
(measured before boiling) allow 1 lb sugar, heated in the 
oven. Let boil up a few minutes, and then turn into jelly 
glasses. — [No Name. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Use not too ripe red berries. Pick over carefully and wash 
and drain. To 2 qts berries allow 1 scant pt cold water, boil 
briskly about 15 minutes, then turn into a jelly bag and drain 
over night. In the morning bring the juice to a boil, add 
2 lbs sugar, which has been thoroughly heated in the oven, 
and boil all together about 20 minutes, stirring constantly. — 
[M. B., 111. 

Elderberry Jelly 

Put the elderberries over the fire with barely enough water 
to cover, and when done turn them into a jelly bag and drain 
over night. When making elderberry jelly I always squeeze 
the jelly bag to get out the good clear juice. Measure the 
juice and for each pt allow 1 lb sugar. Bring the juice 
to a boil, and then boil 20 minutes, add the sugar which 
should have been heated thoroughly in the oven, let it boil 
up thoroughly once more, and pour into jars. This will not 
get solid like other jellies. We like to eat it with pancakes 
in the winter. — [Mrs. E. B., N. Y. 

Barberry Jelly 

Boil together until soft 4 qts barberries and 12 large, sour 
apples, adding no more water than necessary. Let drain over 
night, and for each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Put juice over 
fire with juice of 3 oranges, a little of the thin orange peel, 
(but none of the white part) and Vz lb seedless raisins. Boil 



GOOSEBERRY AND STRAWBERRY JELLIES 239 



until orange peel and raisins are soft, then carefully skim 
these out, add the sugar, which should first have been 
thoroughly heated in the oven, and boil about 15 minutes. — 
[Mrs. W. H. M., Mass. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Carefully pick and wash the gooseberries, and to each pt 
allow % pt water. Simmer until berries are all broken, then 
turn into jelly bag and let drain over night. Measure juice 
and boil briskly about 15 minutes, then stir in an equal 
amount heated sugar, and boil steadily about V2 hour. — 
[L. E. B., Ind. 

Raspberry or Blackberry Jelly 

Pick berries over carefully, wash and drain, and put over 
fire with just enough water to keep from burning. Stir and 
mash while cooking, and when well done, turn into jelly 
bag and let drain over night. Do not squeeze the bag if you 
want nice, clear jelly. Boil and skim juice about 10 minutes, 
then measure, and for each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. Heat 
sugar and add it to the boiling juice. Boil about 15 or 20 
minutes, or until it is ready to "jell." — [Mrs. A. C, Va. 

Cherry Jelly 

Sour cherries, not too ripe, are best. Wash and drain, add 
a very little water, and let simmer slowly i^ hour, then turn into 
jelly bag, and let drain all night. For 2 cups juice allow 1 y2 
cups sugar. Bring juice to boiling point, boil 20 minutes, then 
add sugar, which should have been thoroughly heated in the 
oven, boil up briskly for another few minutes, and turn at 
once into jelly glasses. The jelly will be firmer if 14 part 
currant juice is added to the cherry juice. — [Mrs. O. M. 
P., N. H. 

Plum Jelly 

Choose plums that are not too ripe and put over fire with 
water enough to half cover. Boil until soft, turn into jelly 
bag and let drain over night. Measure juice, add an equal 
amount sugar, and boil and skim. When it is ready to "jell," 
which will be when it is thick enough to drop slowly from a 
spoon, turn at once into jelly glasses. — [Mrs. F. M. C, Tex. 

Strawberry Jelly 

Use only fine colored, fresh berries; pick over carefully, 
wash and drain, and put in a porcelain-lined kettle on back 



24 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

of range to draw juices. Stir and mash with a vooden spoon. 
When juice runs freely, turn berries into jelly bag and let 
drain over night. Allow 1 lb sugar for each pt juice. Let 
juice boil about 15 minutes, then add heated sugar, and boil 
10 minutes longer. The left-over pulp can be used for jam. — 
[F. L., Wis. 

Rhubarb Jelly 

To 4 qts rhubarb cut in small pieces, but not peeled, add 
about ^ or % qt washed cherry leaves, about 1 pt fresh 
water, and cook slowly until rhubarb is tender. Strain through 
a jelly bag over night. For each pt juice allow 1 pt sugar. 
Bring juice to a quick boil, boil about 20 minutes, skim, 
and then add sugar, which should have been previously heated 
in the oven. Boil briskly another 5 minutes, and then turn 
at once into jelly glasses. Instead of cherry leaves, orange 
juice can be used as a flavoring. The cherry leaves will im- 
part to the rhubarb a delicious flavor of cherries. — [Mrs. W. 
V. L., Me. 

Tomato Jelly 

Wash, drain and cut in halves 4 qts yellow tomatoes. Boil 
until soft, then turn into jelly bag and let drain over night. 
Allow Vz cup granulated sugar for each cup juice. ]Let juice 
boil 20 minutes, then turn in the sugar, heated, and boil 
about 15 minutes longer. I allow 1 slice lemon, pits removed, 
to every qt juice, and skim lemon out just before turning 
jelly into glasses. — [Mrs. G. W. A., Pa. 

Rules for Preparing Jams and Marmalades 

Fully ripe fruit or berries can be used for jams, but it will 
not pay to use over-ripe fruit. Berries should be carefully 
picked over, washed and drained and put on the back of the 
stove in an agate or porcelain-lined kettle with i/^ or % 
the amount of sugar. Stir and when the sugar is melted, 
bring the kettle to the front of the stove and let the jam 
boil until it begins to thicken, which will be from 20 to 30 
minutes. Stir frequently to prevent burning and skim off 
all skum that rises to the surface. Apples, peaches, pears, 
etc., should be peeled, cored and quartered and if the fruit 
is not juicy enough, add a very little water. Jams may be 
put up the same as jellies, in glasses or jars, and no air- 
tight sealing is necessary, a layer of melted parafiine and a 
cover of paper being sufficient. Set away in a cool, dark and 
dry place. — [A. G., Mass. 




PREPARING WATERMELON RIND FOR PRESERVES. 




MAKING PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 



APPLE AND CRABAPPLE JAMS 241 

Uncooked Jam and Jelly 

This is my most valued recipe and my cold jam and jelly 
are considered by the family as quite superior to anything 
else in the way of canned fruit, retaining as they do the delicacy 
and delicious flavor of the fresh fruit. Berries are especially 
adapted to this method of preserving, although I suppose any 
soft acid fruit could be used. I have used very soft, ripe 
apricots with success. Currants should be used with rasp- 
berries to supply the necessary acidity. Take equal parts 
of perfectly fresh, ripe fruit and granulated sugar. Thor- 
oughly mash fruit or put it through a colander or fruit press — 
anything that will reduce it to a smooth pulp. Add sugar 
and stir with a wooden spoon for ^ hour or more, until 
you feel certain every grain of sugar is dissolved, as in this 
lies the secret of its keeping. Then pour immediately into 
glasses and set uncovered in a cool, dry place for a week 
or so, until a thin sugary crust has formed on the top, when 
it may be covered like any jelly and set away, being careful 
to keep it in a cool place. It will be firm and solid as jelly 
after standing a few days. Of course for jelly the juice must 
be strained. — [Miss N. S. C, Cal. 

Apple Jam 

Weigh equal quantities brown sugar and good sour apples, 
add very little water to sugar and boil until syrupy. Then 
add apples, peeled, cored and quartered, grated rinds of 2 
or 3 lemons and few pieces white ginger. Boil until apples 
look clear and yellow. This resembles foreign sweet-meats. 
On no account omit the ginger. — [Mrs. L. W. B., R. I. 

Crabapple Jam 

Wash crabapples and put in a kettle with barely enough 
water to cover. Simmer until they can readily be reduced 
to a pulp with a potato masher, then strain through a coarse 
sieve, measure and to 1 part pulp add ^ part sugar. Return 
to fire and 'cook slowly about ^/^ hour. Pour into glasses^ 
and seal with parafline. — [Mrs. J. H. C, N. Y. 

Elderberry Jam 

To % part elderberries add 1 part tart apples, and to 
every lb of this mixture add % lb sugar and a very little 
water, if necessary. Flavor with lemon iuice or any preferred 
spices. Boil until the consistency of apple butter. — [R. A. 
H., Mo. 



24 2 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 1 

Cherry Jam 

' i 

Stone 8 lbs cherries, stir in 2 lbs sugar, let stand '10 or 
12 hours, then boil slowly until converted into a smooth | 
jam. — [E. K., Mass. ; 

Strawberry Jam ! 

Hull, wash and drain the berries, mash, add an equal j 
quantity sugar or a little less sugar if very sweet jams are j 
not liked, put over a slow fire, bring to the boiling point ; 
and boil about 20 minutes. Test by taking out a teaspoonful ' 
on a saucer, and if the liquid does not jelly when cool, boil j 
■SL little longer. About i/4 part currants added to the straw- i 
berries is a great improvement. — [A. G., Mass. i 

i 
Raspberry and Blackberry Jam I 

j 
To each lb berries add % lb sugar, and if berries are not 
juicy enough, a very little water. I always add some currants 
to raspberry jam as they provide just the necessary acidy i 
ilavor. Some people like a little cinnamon flavoring. Boil \ 
until it thickens and the juice is ready to jelly. Put away I 
in glasses or jars and seal with paraffine. — [A. G., Mass. j 

Rhubarb Jam j 

To 2^ lbs rhubarb, cut in small pieces, add 2 lbs sugar, ] 
1 cup vinegar, 1 teasp cinnamon and % teasp cloves. Boil i 
-about Vz hour and when thick pour in glasses and seal with : 
paraffine. — [A. McL., 111. - 

Wild Cherry and Grape Jam ' 

Boil 2 gals wild cherries with barely enough water to ; 
cover them, until they are soft enough to rub through a sieve, j 
In another vessel boil 1 gal green grapes the same way, and j 
afterwards combine the pulp of the two with V2 as much : 
sugar as pulp, and boil together about 2 hours. — [Mrs. J. i 
K., Neb. 

Cold Currant Jam ' 

i 

Stir well together equal parts mashed currants and granu- j 
lated sugar, let stand over night, then stir up again and j 
pour into glass jars, seal, and keep in a cool place. Be sure | 
every currant is mashed. This is nice to serve with roast 1 
meats. — [Mrs. D. J. C. N. Y. ' 



PLUM AND PEACH JAMS 243 



Baked Gooseberry Jam 

Use gooseberries that are not too ripe, place a layer in an 
earthern or granite-ware vessel, cover with sugar, put in 
another layer of gooseberries, cover with sugar again, and' so 
on until the pan is almost filled. Then add 1 pt water to every 
6 lbs gooseberries, place in a moderately heated oven, and 
leave it there till the sugar is converted into a syrup and the 
contents begin to boil. Put up in small jars, not forgetting 
to pour a fine sheet of paraffine over the top, which will 
prevent moulding. — [F. L. B. R., Ct. 

Tomato Jam 

To 4 lbs peeled and sliced ripe tomatoes, add 2 lbs sugar, 
1 pt vinegar and salt, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Cook 
till thick, like fruit jam. — [Mrs. J. B. M., N. Y. 

Rhubarb and Raspberry Jam 

Peel and cut rhubarb in small pieces and for each lb allow 
1 lb raspberries and 2 lbs sugar. Boil together slowly and 
steadily until it jellies when a little is tested on a cold 
plate. Strawberries and rhubarb may be combined in the 
same way. — [Mrs. N. M. P., N. H. 

Damson Jam 

Allow % lb sugar for each lb fruit. Wash fruit and boil 
with just enough water to prevent scorching. When soft 
press through a colander, then return the pulp to the kettle, 
add the sugar and a few blanched kernels of the plums. Boil 
gently until the consistency of jelly, skimming off the skum. 
After it has cooled off a little, pour into small earthern jam 
pots, jelly glasses or jars. Damson jam is an excellent side 
dish to serve with meats, game or poultry. — [O. M. P., N. H, 

Baked Peach Jam 

Use ripe, perfect fruit, pare and remove the stones, mash 
as fine as possible, turn into an earthernware or agate dish, 
place in a hot oven and cook for an hour or more. Then put 
in about half as much sugar as there is fruit and cook 1 
or 2 hours longer, or until the consistency of jam. — [J. L. 
R., O, 

Apricot Jam 

Select good, ripe fruit and to every lb, after peeling and 
stoning, allow % lb sugar. Crack a few of the stones, take 



244 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



out the kernels and blanch them, after which add . them to 
the fruit with the sugar. Cover well and let stand over 
night. The following morning put over the fire and boil 
slowly about 1 hour or until the consistency of jam. — [Miss 
N. L. R., Ct. 

Cherry Marmalade 

Remove stones from cherries, crush the stones, put in a 
kettle with a small quantity of water, and boil until the 
flavor is extracted. Put fruit in a preserving kettle, add 
a little clear water and boil until reduced to a pulp, stirring 
frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent sticking. For 
each lb fruit allow % lb sugar and add sugar to the strained 
water in which the stones have been cooked, and boil until 
transparent bubbles appear en top. Pour this syrup over the 
fruit and continue boiling and stirring until thick and smooth. 
— [A. G., Mass. 

Orange Marmalade 

Boil the thin yellow peel (none of the white rind) of 1 doz 
ripe oranges in just enough water to cover. When tender, drain 
off the water and chop the peel in fine pieces. Peel the oranges,, 
pull to pieces, and discard all the white parts, fibre and seeds, 
and add 1 cup sugar to each cup orange pulp. Let this 
stand until the sugar is dissolved, stirring frequently, then 
add the boiled and chopped orange peel and boil all together 
about 20 minutes. If the oranges are not tart, the juice of 
1 lemon may be added. — [Mrs. H. L., Va. 

Quince Marmalade 

" The fruit should be quite ripe. Peel, quarter and core, and 
cook until soft in a very little water, then rub through a 
sieve, weigh the pulp, add an equal weight of sugar, and boil 
slowly until of the proper consistency. — [Mrs. A. C. McP., O. 

Mixed Fruit Marmalade 

Take % pk each peaches, pears, apples and quinces. Pare,, 
core and slice at night, pack into a porcelain-lined kettle in 
alternate layers of sugar and fruit. Allow i^ lb sugar to 
1 lb fruit. Next morning put over a moderate fire and cook 
about 6 hours, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. — 
[R. R., Md. 

Muskmelon Marmalade 

Peel and cut up muskmelons, discarding the soft pulp 
and seeds. Cut the melon in small pieces, add a very little 



APPLE AND PEACH BUTTERS 245 



water and the juice of 1 lemon to every 2 melons. Boil until 
thick, then measure and add % as much sugar, and boil 
again until very thick. — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Watermelon Marmalade 

Cut out the red meat from a ripe watermelon, discard the 
seeds, squeeze out the juice, add ^ as much sugar as there 
is juice and boil down to a thick syrup, then put in the 
chopped red pulp and cook until clear. Seal. — [Mrs. P. J. S., 
Tex. 

Cranberry and Quince Marmalade 

Cook cranberries with a very little water until soft, and 
rub through a colander. Proceed the same way with quince 
cores and peelings and mix together equal quantities of each 
pulp. Add 1 cup sugar to every 2 cups of the mixture and 
cook until it is the consistency of marmalade. This is nice 
served with chicken. — [L. E. C, Cal. 

Apple Butter 

Bring 10 gals sweet cider to the boiling point, then add 
1 bu apples, peeled, cored and quartered. Let boil, skim 
the froth as it rises, and stir frequently. When it has boiled 
down about half, add sugar or molasses to suit taste and boil 
again until a little when put on a cold dish and cooled will 
form a nice crust on top. Add a little cinnamon and cloves, 
or any spices to suit taste, and put away in crocks or jars. — 
[Unidentified. 

Crab Apple Butter 

Wash Vz bu crab apples, trim off blossom and stem ends, 
cut each apple in half, and remove any wormy parts. Put 
in a preserving kettle over the fire, cover with cold water, 
let boil until very soft, and after it has cooled a little, rub 
through a wire sieve. To 3 cups of the sifted pulp, add 1 
cup sugar, let come to the boiling point and boil 20 minutes. — 
[Mrs. D. L. A., Ore. 

Peach Butter 

Select ripe peaches, peel, remove stones and defective parts, 
cut in small pieces and put over the fire in a porcelain-lined 
kettle with a very little water. Boil slowly until soft, then 
press through a colander and to each qt of the strained 
pulp, add 1^ lbs sugar. Boil slowly 1 hour, stirring fre- 
-quently to prevent burning. If liked, this jam can be seasoned 
sparingly with cloves, cinnamon or allspice. — [Mrs. C. G., N. D. 



24 6 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Plum Butter 

Wash, put into a kettle, cover with water, boil until thor- 
oughly cooked, then let cool, and rub through sieve or 
colander. A medium sized muskmelon added to every 2 
qts of plums greatly improves the flavor, but may be omitted. 
For each lb fruit pulp, allow V2 lb sugar. Boil gently about 
3 hours. Skim well and stir often. Put into glass jars 
and seal tight. — [Mrs. W. S., Neb. 

Tomato Butter 

Peel 10 lbs ripe tomatoes, add 4 lbs apples, peeled, cored 
and quartered, and put in a preserving kettle over a moderate 
fire. Let boil about 1 hour, stirring occasionally to prevent 
scorching, then add 8 lbs sugar, the juice of 4 lemons, and 1 
tablesp powder ginger. Cook slowly and stir frequently, till 
reduced to the consistency of marmalade. — [Miss J. R. W., 
Kan. 

Pumpkin or Squash Butter 

Peel pumpkins, remove pulp and seeds, cut into small 
pieces and stew in a very little water until soft, then add 
y2 as much sugar and spices to suit taste, and boil down until 
very dark or until it cannot boil any longer without sticking,, 
stirring constantly. Put up boiling hot in fruit jars. Squash 
butter is made the same way. To dry pumpkin, stew until 
soft in as little water as possible, then mash fine, adding 1 
tablesp sugar or molasses to each pt pumpkin, and stew slowly 
until it is almost dry. Spread about 1 inch thick on greased 
pans and place in a moderate oven till thoroughly dry, turn- 
ing around when necessary. After it is dry and cold put up 
in paper bags and hang in a dry place. Soak pieces of this 
in a little water over night when wanted for pies. — [Mrs. J. 
C. T.. Ore. 

Crabapple Jumble 

To 7 lbs crabapples, quartered and cored, but not pared,, 
add 1 lb sugar, 2 lbs seeded raisins, and yellow peel and pulp 
of 2 oranges, discarding seeds and white parts. Cook all 
together with just enough water to dissolve sugar. When 
done it should be of a thick, honey-like consistency, and a 
clear, reddish amber in color. This will make about 1 gal 
and will keep indefinitely, sealed in a jar. — [Mrs. E. G. F., 
N. Y. 

Spiced Cranberries 

Tie up in a small cheese cloth bag, 2 tablesp ground cinna- 
mon, 1 tablesp ground cloves and % tablesp ground allspice. 



FRUIT HONEY AND PASTE 247 

and simmer slowly ^ hour in 1 cup water. Then add to the 
spiced water 7 lbs cranberries, ZVz lbs sugar and 2 cups cider 
vinegar. Cook slowly until as thick as marmalade. Pour 
into glasses and when perfectly cool, seal with melted paraf- 
fine, or cover securely with paper. — [N. M. P., N. H. 

Quince Honey 

Peel and grate 3 or 4 good sized, ripe and juicy quinces,, 
and add to a briskly boiling syrup made of 3 pts sugar and 
1 pt water. Boil 20 minutes after the quince has been added. 
As quick as the quinces are grated, turn them into the- 
syrup. Allow the kettle to stand on the back of the stove 
until all are in. — [Mrs. D. A. F., Pa. 

Fig Paste 

Wash and cut fine 1 lb figs, add 1 qt cold water, bring slowly 
to the boiling point, and then cook slowly 1 hour. Next add 
3 cups sugar, and cook until it thickens like jelly when a little 
of it is cooled. Settle in jelly glasses. This is very nice to 
eat with warm biscuits, or for layer cake, and is excellent 
to make sweet sandwiches for the children's lunch. — [Mrs. 
J. D.. N. Y. 



It is best not to try to make large quantities of jellies or 
jams at one time. When made in small quantities — a quart or 
two at a time — they turn out much better. — [A. G., Mass. 

A little lemon juice added to blackberry jam when it is; 
boiling improves the flavor. — [No name. 

If you object to the raspberry and blackberry seeds in jam, 
run them through a fine wire sieve after boiling the berries- 
until soft, and before adding the sugar. — [A. G., Mass. 

By adding % apple pulp to % blackberry pulp, a nice jelly 
of improved flavor is obtained. — [A. G., Mass. 

For strawberry jam, I use the following proportions: 4 lbs 
strawberries, 2 lbs sugar, 1 pt currant juice.^ — [L. E. B., Ind. 

An open box of thyme placed in the closet in which jams, 
jellies and preserves are stored will prevent mould from, 
gathering on them. — [Mrs. M. A. P.. 111. 



248 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Jelly Jottings « 

When making peach jelly it is an improvement to add some ^ 
sour apples. This will help to make the jelly more firm. \ 

'i 

When making elderberry jelly add a few green grapes to ] 

supply the necessary acid — more or less grapes, according to I 

how ripe the elderberries are. | 

Save the nice peelings when canning peaches; put some \ 

apple parings with them, and cook together. More or less ' 

apples can be used as desired, as long as there are not apples ' 
enough to kill the peach flavor. 

Ripe blackberry jelly is improved by adding a few unripe i 
or red ones when cooking. Cook the same day the berries ; 
are gathered. — [Mrs. J. P. B., Pa. | 

By using different colored fruit together one can have - 

several kinds of jellies — white peaches and light colored apples I 

will make the jelly light, and by adding red apple parings one i 

can obtain various shades of red. i 

! 

Filled jam or jelly glasses should not be covered until the I 
contents are thoroughly cold, as otherwise the evaporation will j 
cause a mould to form on top. — [A. G., Mass. i 

Blanch 3 or 4 peach kernels, chop fine, and add to the ( 

peach marmalade to improve the flavor. Add juice and rind i 

of a lemon, or some essence of cinnamon can also be used for ■ 

flavoring. — [No name. ; 

If tart apples can not be obtained when making jelly, the j 

juice of 1 or 2 lemons added to the syrup is sufficient to im- I 

part the desired flavor, and will aid in making the jelly i 

firm. — [R. R., Md. j 

i 

Add a small cup of rhubarb juice to each qt of grape pre- | 

serves or jelly. This will prevent the formation of those j 

crystals in grape preserves, otherwise called "grape sugar." j 

The acid in the rhubarb neutralizes this "grape sugar." — • 

[Mrs. A. B., Col. . I 

Equal parts of strained plum or pear pulp, boiled down j 

with sugar like any other marmalade, makes an agreeable j 

change. The plums being acid and the pears insipid, they i 

combine very nicely. Apples and plums can be combined in j 

the same way. Allow % lb sugar to each lb of fruit. — [Mrs. ; 

W. S. G., Mo. . ; 




Picklin^^^Sour and Sweet 

VERY housewife who can procure or has 
at her disposal the necessary ingredients, 
is, ^ or should be, interested in pickling 
recipes, since pungent and spicy relishes are 
generally considered necessary adjuncts to- 
a well equipped table. They can be made 
at home at small expense and with little trouble and 
expenditure of time. The bulk of pickling is done in the 
cooler months of fall, and if only therefor alone, the work 
is or would seem to be much less laborious than the can- 
ning and preserving, which must be done during the warm 
summer season, when most of the fruit ripens. When the 
directions call for air-tight sealing, the usual canning pre- 
cautions should be carefully observed. Good vinegar, sugar 
and spices are as necessary to success as good fruit and 
vegetables, for however fine the latter may be, if the former 
are of an inferior quality, the finished product will be most 
unsatisfactory. Among the following are a choice variety 
of pickJing recipes, sour, sweet and spicy, which can be 
varied or modified to suit individual tastes. 

To Salt Down Cucumbers For Pickles 

Have ready a perfectly clean jar, crock, or keg — whether 
the receptacle is glass, stone, or wood is immaterial, as long 
as it is clean and does not leak. Use only good, firm cucum- 
bers, not too large, and cut them from the vines with a pair 
of sharp scissors, leaving about ^/^ inch stem on each. Never 
pull them from the vines, and always handle them carefully 
so as not to bruise them. Wash clean and wipe dry. Put a 
2 or 3-inch layer of coarse salt in the bottom of the keg, then 
a layer of closely packed cucumbers, cover with salt, and pro- 
ceed in this way until all the cucumbers are used, topping ofC 
with a layer of salt, and over that a layer of freshly picked 
grape leaves. Use plenty salt — there is more danger in using" 
too little than too much. Pour in cold, hard water to cover, 
put a clean white cloth over the top, tucking in the edges 
snugly down the sides, then put in an inverted plate, or a 
hard board to fit, and weigh it down with a large, clean stone^ 

249 



250 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



to keep the cucumbers well under brine. Cover the keg and i 
set away In a cool place. Cucumbers may be added from time j 
to time as they are gathered, with some more salt, until the ■ 
crock is full. Be careful to keep the cucumbers always well ' 
under the brine, and if there should be too much brine, throw ) 
some of it away. When removing cloth, plate, and stone, do \ 
so carefully, and if any scum has gathered, wash thoroughly ; 
before returning to the crock. When the pickles are wanted \ 
for table use, take out enough to last about one week, freshen j 
them in clear, cold ■\\fater baths, until they are plump and just I 
right to the taste, changing the water frequently and tasting i 
a pickle occasionally to see if it is too salty. The pickles are i 
then ready to be put in cold vinegar with any preferred spices, : 
and in about 10 hours or less they will be ready for use. A ] 
small bunch of dill put in the vinegar imparts a delightful j 
flavor. Cover the jar, and set in a cool place. — [A. G., Mass. 

To Salt Down String Beans 

Select firm, meaty, juicy and tender beans. Wash and drain, | 
string and break or cut up in small pieces. If the beans are | 
large and meaty, and cut up fine, on the bias, the result will ' 
be much more satisfactory. Pack the beans into a crock in \ 
alternate layers with salt, beginning and topping off with a I 
layer of salt. Keep in a moderately warm place so the salt will j 
dissolve and form a brine, which should cover the beans well. \ 
Beans and salt may be added from day to day until the jar is i 
full. Then cover inside with a clean cloth, plate or board and j 
weight down with a clean stone. Be sure that the brine covers , 
the beans. Cover the crock, tie over with cloth or paper, and ; 
set away in a cool place. — [E. R. G.. R. I. 

To Salt Down Whole Ripe Tomatoes ] 

Ripe and perfectly sound tomatoes may be kept for winter \ 
use by simply packing them carefully in large stone jars and j 
pouring over them a very strong brine. Cover tight to keep j 
out the air. When wanted for use, take out the required | 
number of tomatoes and soak them 24 hours in cold water, | 
They can then be peeled and sliced, and will taste as though | 
they had just come from the vines. — [Mrs, E, L,, Mass. 

Cucumber Pickles I I 

To 1 gal good cider vinegar add 2 ozs ginger root, 1 oz tur- ] 
meric, 1 oz whole black pepper, 1 oz whole cloves, 1 oz chili i 
peppers, 1 lb salt, and % lb powdered mustard. Mix the mus- , 
tard and turmeric in a little of the cold vinegar, and boil all I 
together about 15 or 20 minutes. When cold pour over cucum- '. 
bers that were washed, wiped dry and packed in a jar. — [K. i 
A. D., N. D. ! 



CUCUMBER AND DILL PICKLES 251 



Cuciiinber Pickles II 

To 1 gal best cider vinegar add 2 ozs ground mustard, 2 ozs 
whole mustard, 2 ozs whole black pepper, 2 ozs cinnamon bark 
broken in pieces, 1 oz ginger root, i^ lb salt, and a piece of 
alum about the size of a small hickory nut. This is enough 
to fill a 2-gal jar, packed with cucumbers. If not enough 
cucumbers are at hand to fill the jar, some more may be 
added from time to time, but be sure that all the cucumbers 
are well covered with the vinegar. — [Miss L. M. B., N. Y. 

Cucumber Pickles III 

To 1 gal good cider vinegar add 1 cup grated horseradish, 

1 cup salt, and 2 cups ground mustard. Dissolve the mustard 
In a little vinegar, and then add to the rest and pour all cold 
over the cucumbers packed in a jar. Be careful that every 
cucumber is well covered. — £L. E. W., Mich. 

Cucumber Pickles IV 

Cut cucumbers from vines with sharp scissors, when about 

2 or 3 inches long, allowing about ^ inch stem to remain on 
each. For 1 pk cucumbers allow 1 cup coarse salt and make 
a brine sufficient to cover the cucumbers, and pour it over 
them boiling hot. Let stand for a day, drain off, and repeat 
this twice, using new brine each time, and allowing 24 hours 
between each change. On the fourth day drain off the brine, 
pour over clear, boiling water, and let stand 24 hours; then 
drain and pack the cucumbers in jars, sprinkling among them 
some whole cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and any other spices 
liked, and to each gallon jar of pickles add a piece of alum 
the size of a small hazelnut. Pour over hot vinegar to cover 
and when cold, cover the top with horseradish leaves. The 
pickles must always be kept well under the vinegar. For 
sweet pickles melt 1 cup sugar in each qt vinegar. — [Mrs. G., 
Wis. 

Dill Pickles 

Wash sound, medium sized pickles and put them to soak 
over night in a brine made of 1 cup salt to 2 gals water. Next 
morning wipe the cucumbers dry, put a layer in a jar, then a 
layer of freshly gathered grape leaves, another layer of 
cherry leaves and one of dill, then another layer of cucum- 
bers, and so on until the jar is full. Cover with a fresh brine 
prepared the same as directed above, cover with a cloth, 
weight down with a board and stone, so that the cucumbers 
will be well covered with the brine, cover the jar, and set away 
in a cool place. — [M. S. L., Wis. 



252 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Sweet Pickles 

Wipe clean 200 small, firm cucumbers and let them stand 
over night in salt water. In the morning drain, wipe dry, 
and drop them into 3 qts best cider vinegar, to which has 
been added 2 ozs each cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 3 lbs 
brown sugar and a few small red peppers. Boil about 5 
minutes, then turn into jars and seal while hot. — [Mrs. D. W. 
C, British Columbia. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles I 

Peel large, ripe, firm cucumbers, cut in quarters, scrape out 
the seeds, soak in weak brine over night, drain thoroughly, 
and scald in clear boiling water. Make a syrup of 1 qt vinegar, 
2 lbs sugar and any preferred spices. Add the cucumbers and 
cook until clear and tender. Can while hot and seal air tight. 
— [Mrs. J. P., N. y. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles II 

These are put up cold and sealed air-tight. Peel and cut up 
the cucumbers and mix them with the following: 1 gal best 
cider vinegar, 1 scant cup salt, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup 
ground mustard, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1 scant tablesp 
alum, and 1 tablesp mixed spices. Be sure that the cucumbers 
are well under vinegar. — [Mrs. C. P. VanK., N. Y. 

Mixed Pickle I 

Cut into quarters, 5 qts green tomatoes, 1 doz green man- 
goes and y2. doz ripe mangoes, add 2 qts small cucumbers, 2 
qts large cucumbers, sliced, 1 doz small white onions and y^ 
doz large onions, sliced, 5 bunches celery, trimmed and cut 
in small pieces, 2 small heads cauliflower or cabbage, trimmed 
and chopped, and boil all together in salt water until tender, 
and then drain through a colander. Make a dressing of 2 qts 
vinegar, 1% cups sugar and add a paste made of 3 tablesp 
ground mustard, 2 tablesp turmeric, 3 tablesp flour and ^ 
teasp cayenne pepper. Let boil, then drop in the drained 
mixed vegetables, let boil up again until all are done, and then 
can and seal while hot, the same as fruit. — [M. L., Pa. 

Mixed Pickle II 

Take Vi pk green tomatoes, 2 large heads cabbage, 12 large 
cucumbers, 1 qt small onions, % pt grated horseradish, ^4 lb 
white mustard seed, ^4 oz celery seed, 4 tablesp pepper, 2 
tablesp turmeric, 1% lbs brown sugar and 3 qts cider vine- 
gar. Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with salt and let stand 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 253 

over night. Next morning drain ofE the salt water, add the 
other ingredients to the vegetables, mix well, place over 
the fire, bring to a boil, and let boil hard about 5 minutes. 
€an and seal while hot. — [A. T. H., O. 

Olive Oil Pickles 

Peel and slice small cucumbers, discarding seeds, and let 
stand 3 hours in a strong brine, then rinse thoroughly in cold 
water and drain. Put a layer of cucumbers in a jar, sprinkle 
with celery salt, white mustard and black mustard seed, and 
whole black pepper, then a layer of cucumbers again, and so 
on until the jar is full. Pour over Vz cup olive oil to a 1-gal 
jar. Cover with cold vinegar and seal. These are nice served 
as pickles, or may be used with canned beans or mixed with 
salad dressing. — [H. C. H., Mich. 

Green Tomato Pickle 

Green tomatoes are the most used and the most abused 
for pickling. Many soak them all night in salt water, which 
toughens them, and as a consequence green tomato pickle 
is not a favorite. Green tomato pickle as I prepare it may not 
look so fancy as some other pickles, but it tastes good, and 
that is the most important consideration. I put the tomatoes 
and other ingredients all together, and cook until the tomatoes 
are tender, and seal while the mixture is boiling hot. In this 
way there is no tiresome soaking in brine, draining, reboil- 
ing, etc. One can put up a big lot in the morning and have 
it done ready to put away before dinner. In the first place, 
do not use undersized, very green tomatoes, but select those 
that are full grown and green, almost ready to ripen. 

Slice 1 gal green tomatoes without peeling, but cut out the 
hard stem ends. Core, peel and slice 6 good sized onions 
(white onions are best), add 1 pt best cider vinegar, 1 pt sugar 
(white or brown), 1 tablesp each salt, ground mustard, whole 
black pepper and white mustard seed, Vz tablesp whole all- 
spice, and 1 heaping teasp whole cloves. Mix well together and 
then stew until tender, stirring often to prevent burning. If 
one wishes a hot or extra peppery taste, add % teasp red pep- 
per, or one red pepper pod cut up in small pieces, with the 
seeds taken out. This pickle may be boiled until tender and 
each slice of tomato retain its shape. There will be plenty 
of rich juice without adding water, but if it should become 
too dry before boiled tender, add a very little hot water. Put 
up in glass jars and seal. The above given quantities will 
make about 4 or 5 qts of pickle. Set away in a cool, dark 
and dry place. This same recipe may be used for ripe toma- 
toes, or half ripe ones. — fl. C. T., Ind. 



254 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Pickled Yellow Tomatoes 



Pour into a jar 1 gal good cider vinegar salted to taste \\ 
and then place in it a small cheese cloth bag containing i^ i] 
teasp each of whole allspice and cinnamon, 1 teasp whole Ij 
cloves and a small piece of ginger root. Set the jar in a cool t 
place and from day to day drop in carefully selected small ll 
yellow tomatoes, first pricking each tomato with a fork, to i 
keep them from bursting. When jar is full, cover with a j 
stout piece of brown paper and over this tie a strong piece \ 
of muslin. No cooking is needed, but be careful that the I 
tomatoes are well covered with the vinegar. — [P. R. H., no 
address. 

Pickled Onions I 

Select small white onions and peel but do not cut them. 
Place in wide mouthed bottles and sprinkle some spices among^ 
them, using 1 oz whole pepper, 1 tablesp mustard seed and a ! 
few coriander seeds to each qt onions. Cover with cold 
vinegar and cork. If the onions absorb the vinegar, add 
more to keep them covered. — [Mrs. E. S. D., Wash. 

Pickled Onions II 

Peel small, white onions, put them over the fire in boiling 
water, and when they look clear skim them out and put them 
on a clean folded cloth. When quite dry, put them into a jar 
and cover them with hot spiced vinegar. If liked a little 
sweet, sugar may be added to the spiced vinegar according to 
taste. The onions must be well covered with vinegar at all 
times. — [Mrs. M. B., O. 

Pickled String Beans 

Select tender, meaty string beans and boil them in salted 
water until done, then drain and drop them in a pickle made- 
of 1 qt vinegar, Vz cup sugar and 2 tablesp mixed spices boiled 
together. Let boil up once more after the cooked beans have 
been added, and then seal in fruit jars while hot. — [Mrs. A. 
J. P., Wis. 

Beet Pickles 

Select tender beets of uniform size, wash them clean, but 
do not cut off the root ends, and allow an inch or two of the 
stem ends to remain on. Cover with boiling water and boil 
until tender, then remove from the hot water, plunge into cold 
water, and then with the hands rub the skins and the root 
and stem ends off. Cut out all specks or tough parts, and slice 



CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER PICKLE 255 



or cut into dice, and pack into glass jars. Fill overflowing 
full with boiling hot vinegar, and seal. If a sweet pickle is- 
desired, boil some sugar and spices with the vinegar. — [Mrs. 
B. G., N. Y. 

Cabbage and Beet Pickle 

Chop fine 2 qts beets after they are boiled and cold. Chop 
fine 2 qts raw red cabbage and add to the beets and cabbage, 2 
cups brown sugar, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1 tablesp salt and 
cider vinegar enough to cover. Put up in air-tight glass jars. The 
beets and cabbage should be measured after being chopped, and 
all the ingredients should be well mixed together before pack- 
ing into jars. — [Mrs. W. M. G., Ct. 

Pickled Red Cabbage 

Select a nice firm, crisp red cabbage, discard the outer 
leaves, and cut out the stem ends and tough core. Shred the 
cabbage fine and then pack into a gal jar in layers, sprinkling 
each layer with a little salt and white mustard seed. When the 
jar is full, pour over it y2 cup vinegar and i^ cup brown sugar, 
heated together. Have the jar overflowing full and seal while 
hot. A small red pepper may be added and a little horseradish 
root if desired. — [Mrs. A. J. P., Wis. 

Pickled White Cabbage 

Chop fine 4 large, crisp heads of cabbage and 1 qt onions. 
Pack in alternate layers in a jar, sprinkling a little salt between 
each, and let stand over night then drain. Mix well together 2 
qts cider vinegar, 2 lbs brown sugar, 2 tablesp each ground 
mustard, black pepper, cinnamon and celery seed and 1 tableso 
each allspice, mace and alum. Let boil up once and pour over 
the cabbage and onions. Let stand over night, drain, heat the 
liquid and pour over the cabbage again. Repeat this process 
for the third time and the fourth morning put all together in 
a large porcelain kettle, bring to a boil, and boil 5 minutes. 
When cold, pack in small jars and seal. — [M. P., N. H. 

Cauliflower Pickle 

Trim and cut up cauliflower, boil in slightly salted water till 
tender, and for every head of cauliflower allow 2 heaping, 
tablesp ground mustard, 1 tablesp flour, 1 teasp salt, % cup 
brown sugar, and a little turmeric with cider vinegar enough 
to cover. Let this mixture come to a boil, then pour over the 
cauliflower in cans or jars, and seal while hot. — [Mrs. G. W- 
A., Pa. 



256 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Pickled Peppers 

Take the hot and sweet peppers and put them in layers in 
a jar, first one of salt, then one of peppers, until the jar is full 
and packed tight, with a layer of salt on top. Tie a cloth over 
the jar and set away for winter use. When wanted, take out 
the required number of peppers and put them in vinegar over 
night. — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Stuffed Pickled Peppers 

Take large green peppers, remove the stem ends and seeds 
and fill with the following mixture: To 2 qts chopped cabbage, 
add V2 cup mustard seed, 2 tablesp celery seed and 2 tablesp 
each salt and brown sugar. Chopped cucumbers or small white 
onions may be added, if liked. Cover each pepper with the 
stem end and tie it on securely. Then put the stuffed peppers 
in a jar, cover with cold vinegar, and seal Keep in a cool and 
dark place.-=— [Mrs. B. R., Nev. 

Stuffed Pickled Peppers n 

Take large green peppers, cut off the ends, take out the seeds 
and let them soak in salted water over night. Then stuff them 
with a chopped mixture of cabbage, cucumbers, green tomatoes 
and onions in equal parts. Put this mixture in a bowl or jar 
and add salt, allowing 1 cup salt for a gal of the mixture, and 
let stand over night, after which squeeze out of the brine, put 
in a preserving kettle over the fire, cover with vinegar, and add 
mustard seed and celery seed to taste. Boil about 15 minutes 
and then stuff the mixture into the peppers, sew on the tops, 
pack in jars, cover with vinegar, and put in some whole spices 
and bay leaves. — [Mrs. P. J. S., Tex. 

Mustard Pickle 

Peel, cut lengthwise and discard seeds of 2 qts ripe, firm 
cucumbers, add V2 doz green peppers, 2 qts green tomatoes 
and 2 heads cauliflower, cut up, 2 qts small cucumbers and 2 
qts small white onions, peeled. Cover with a weak brine and 
let stand 24 hours, then drain. Prepare dressing as follows: 
Mix to a smooth paste 12 tablesp mustard, 2 tablesp turmeric 
and 2 cups flour, with a little cold vinegar, then add 3 cups 
sugar, 4 qts vinegar, and boil all together. Drop the prepared 
pickles in this dressing, let heat thoroughly, and put away in 
pickle bottles. — [Mrs. J. L. S., Ct. 

Corn Pickle or Relish 

To 12 cups cut sweet corn, add 12 cups chopped cabbage, 1 
cup chopped celery and 1 cup chopped onions. Boil all 





.^., ^^ai^^^ifff 'm 


— : — -7—^ > - -^, ^ 






■^^fg^^^ *r. 



'FILLER" CURRANTS GROWN IN NEW YORK. 




PRIZE PEACHES FROM MICHIGAN 




PRIZE WINNING APPLES FROM PENNSYLVANIA. 




KEIFFER PEARS GROWN IN MISSOURI. 



OLIVES AND CHOW-CHOW 257 



together in slightly salted water until tender and then drain, 
after which mix with a dressing prepared as follows: To 1 cup 
sugar add 1 tablesp each mustard, salt and turmeric, and 2 
heaping tablesp flour. Mix to a paste with a little cold vinegar, 
then add the balance of 2 qts vinegar. Two peppers sliced in 
rings can also be added if liked. Boil this dressing until it 
thickens and the flour is done. Mix the vegetables with it and 
can while hot. — [Mrs. M. Z. P., Wash. 

Pickled Olives 

To 6 gals green olives allow 1 lb each of concentrated lye 
and salt, dissolve in 6 gals water, and soak the olives in this 
solution for 2 days, then drain and replace with a fresh solu- 
tion made the same as before, and soak for 2 days more, after 
which drain the olives and immerse them in pure water from 5 
to 8 days, according to the bitterness of the olives, changing the 
water every day. Finally put them in a brine made by dissolv- 
ing 3 lbs salt in 4 '^^ gals water. They will keep this way for 
one season in a keg, but if wanted for long storage, they should 
be bottled and sealed. — [Mrs. C. E. G., Ariz. 

Old Virginia Chow-Chow 

Chop fine 8 qts green tomatoes, 3 small heads cabbage, 6 
large onions, 6 ripe peppers and 6 green peppers, sprinkle with 
salt, and let stand 24 hours, then drain thoroughly and add 3 
qts good cider vinegar and 1 1/^ lbs brown sugar. Boil all 
together 1 hour, then add 8 qts ripe tomatoes, 3 heads finely 
chopped celery and 1 pt horseradish and boil 15 minutes 
longer, after which add 1 tablesp each cloves and mustard, 2 
tablesp each white mustard seed, allspice and ginger. Use the 
ground spices, mix all together thoroughly, and when done put 
up in jars and seal. — [Mrs. F. E. T., Cal. 

India Relish 

Trim and cut fine 2 heads cauliflower, 2 heads cabbage, 12 
onions, 12 large green cucumbers and 6 green peppers. Meas- 
ure and for each pt chopped vegetables, add 1 pt chopped 
green tomatoes. Mix well, put in a large stone jar, cover with 
a weak brine, and let stand over night. Next morning drain 
thoroughly, put in a granite vessel, cover with good cider vine- 
gar, and add 1 lb brown sugar, i^ cup white mustard seed, and 
about a handful of mixed spices tied up in a small cheese cloth 
bag. Boil about 3 hours, then turn into glass jars and seal 
while hot. — [Mrs. M. A. C, Wash. 



258 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK \ 

i 
Pickled Berries J 

\ 

Put 6 qts strawberries or any other berries into a stone jar ! 
in layers, sprinkling each layer with cinnamon and cloves. \ 
When the jar is full, pour over the berries a syrup made by t 
boiling together 1 pt vinegar and 3 pts sugar. Let stand 24 ' 
hours, pour off the syrup, boil again and pour over the berries. | 
Let stand over night and then boil the berries and syrup | 
together slowly for 20 minutes, pour into jars and seal. — [L. i 
E. B., Ind. j 

Sweet Plum Pickles ? 

Wipe 7 lbs firm, ripe plums, pack them into a jar and pour ! 
over them a syrup made by boiling together 1 qt cider vinegar, j 
4 lbs sugar and 2 tablesp cinnamon and 1 tablesp cloves tied ; 
in a cheese cloth bag. Let stand 1 day, then pour off the syrup, , 
let boil up again, and again pour over the plums. Repeat this ■ 
the next day, and the third day boil up the plums and syrup < 
together and can and seal while hot. — [S. A. B., N. Y. j 



Sweet Pickled Pears 



Select firm fruit of uniform size, not too ripe, and remove 1 
blossom ends with sharp pointed knife. For 4 lbs fruit allow I 
1 pt best cider vinegar, 2 lbs brown sugar and ^^ cup whole j 
spices mixed — whole cloves, allspice and stick cinnamon, tied ; 
In a cheese cloth bag. Boil the spices with the vinegar and l 
sugar about 10 minutes, skim, add the fruit, and cook until ; 
tender. Skim out the pears, put in jars, boil down the syrup, ■ 
pour over the fruit in jars, and seal. This syrup is fine to add ' 
to mincemeat pies in winter. — [Mrs. P. H., Ore. j 

1 
Sweet Quince Pickles ; 

Use only ripe, sound fruit. Pare, core and cut in quarters \ 
or eighths. Simmer the parings and cores 1 hour in just ; 
enough water to cover, then drain and after weighing the | 
quinces, cook until tender in this water, then drain again, sav- i 
ing the juice. For every 7 lbs fruit allow 4 lbs sugar, 1 pt I 
cider vinegar, and 1 cup juice in which the fruit was boiled, j 
Boil all together about 15 minutes with 2 tablesp cinnamon I 
and 1 tablesp mace tied in a cheese cloth bag, then add the i 
fruit and simmer slowly % hour. Skim out the fruit, put in , 
jars, boil down the juice, pour over the fruit, and seal while j 
hot. — [Mrs. M. K., Kan. j 

Sweet Pickled Peaches j 

Boil 2 lbs brown sugar, 1 pt best cider vinegar and 1 oz stick 
cinnamon 20 minutes. Have ready i/^ pk peaches, dip quickly 



PICKLED CHERRIES AND APPLES 25 & 



in hot water and rub off the fuzz with a clean towel, stick into 
each peach 2 whole cloves and drop them into the hot syrup to 
cook until tender. Do not crowd too many peaches in the syrup 
at one time. When the peaches are tender, put them in glass 
jars and cover with the boiling hot syrup and seal at once. — 
[Mrs. J. B., Kan. 

Pickled Cherries 

Fill a jar compactly with good, ripe cherries with the stems 
on, but be careful not to crush the cherries. Pour over them a 
syrup made by boiling together 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup sugar. 
Seal air-tight. These are delicious served with roast m.eats. — 
[No name. 

Sweet Pickled Apples 

These are preferred by many to pickled pears and this recipe 
will prove doubly welcome when all the fruit cans for air-tight 
sealing are used up, as the sweet apple pickle will keep very 
well in covered jars. Peel, but leave whole 1 pk sweet apples, 
make a syrup of 2 qts vinegar, 4 lbs brown sugar (more if 
desired very sweet), % oz whole cloves and allspice or cinna- 
mon, 1 teasp mustard seed and a little salt. Heat the vinegar 
and sugar together and when it boils, skim well, then put in 
the spices tied in a cheese cloth bag, let boil up again and then 
add the apples and boil slov/ly until tender. When done, lift 
out the apples carefully, put them in a jar, boil down the syrup 
to the desired consistency and sweetness, pour over the apples 
and when cold, cover securely and set away in a cool place. — 
[Mrs. E. G. F., N. Y. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles 

Slice 20 lbs green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and let stand 
24 hours, then drain and boil in water enough to cover, adding 
3 tablesp ground ginger. When the tomatoes are tender, drain 
and put in stone jars and pour over them 2 qts of boiling hot 
vinegar which has been seasoned with 1 Vz tablesp ground cin- 
namon, V2 tablesp ground cloves, 3 tablesp ground ginger, 2 
small red peppers and 4 lbs sugar. Tie the spices in a small 
cheese cloth bag. When the jar is full, lay this spice bag on 
top of the pickle. — [Mrs. C. W. H., Pa. 

Carrot Sweet Pickles 

These are equal to spiced crabapples. Wash and scrape sev- 
eral good sized carrots and boil in slightly salted water until 
tender. Make a syrup of vinegar, sugar and spices, same as for 



2 60 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



any other sweet pickle, or use 1 pt vinegar, 2 pts sugar and 1 
teasp each of cloves and cinnamon. When the syrup is boiling 
slice in all the carrots the syrup will cover, let simmer for a 
while, and then put away in jars. The syrup can be made as 
rich as desired, and more spices may be added if liked. If 
not very sweet and spicy, they should be put up in. sealed jars. 
— [Mrs. R. M. S., Wis. 

Sauerkraut 

Cabbage in the form of kraut, if properly made and cared 
for, is nutritious and makes a desirable dish, being convenient 
and very little trouble to prepare. I have been using the follow- 
ing recipe for years and have never lost a pound or had any 
trouble with mouldy cloths on top of kraut. For large quanti- 
ties I use clean oak barrels, for a few gallons I prefer stone 
jars. For packing in barrels, I place the barrel near the wall 
of a building or a heavy post, make a follower that will just fit 
inside of the barrel and press down by means of a lever, one end 
in a crack of the building or under a block nailed to a post. 
Pack in solid, but do not pound or stamp, as this breaks and 
mashes the fiber of the leaves and causes them to become dark. 
The way I want kraut to look when taken from the barrel is 
long, stringy and of a snowy whiteness, and to have a sour, not 
a soured taste and smell. 

Early morning, when the dew is on, is the best time to 
gather cabbage for kraut. The weather should be warm enough 
to cause fermentation to take place in 2 or 3 days from time of 
packing. After fermentation has ceased, keep in a shady cool 
place. Remove all outside leaves and the heart or stalk of the 
cabbage. Use a two or three-knife kraut cutter, place over a 
tub, and shred the required amount to fill barrel or jars. Use 
1 tablesp salt to each gal of kraut, and no more, for if more salt 
is used fermentation will not be so perfect — the salt will pre- 
serve, instead of allowing the cabbage to ferment. Sprinkle 
salt over the cut cabbage and thoroughly mix by working over 
with the hands or a large wooden spoon or paddle. Do not use 
any metal spoons or kettles. After mixing, press in the barrels 
or jars very solid. If in barrels replace the head and bore in 
it an inch auger hole, set level, and pour in cold water until it 
will take no more. Keep the head of barrel covered with water 
by adding more every day, or as needed. After fermentation 
has ceased, stop up tight and keep head of barrel covered with 
water, to exclude the air. If put up in jars, keep a weight on to 
hold kraut under brine, and keep it running over with water, 
to cause all skum to work off. — [J. W. G., Ky. 



MAKING SAUERKRAUT 261 



Sauerkraut Notes 

Use a water-tight hard wooden keg or barrel and be sure it 
is thoroughly clean. Put a layer of clean outside cabbage 
leaves in the bottom of the keg and a little way up on the sides. 
Put in a layer of shredded cabbage, sprinkle with salt and a lit- 
tle caraway seed and onion and apple, and press down very 
firmly. For a medium sized wash tub of shredded cabbage use 
about 3 or 4 handsful salt, 2 tablesp caraway seed, 1 onion and 
1 apple, chopped very fine. Proceed in alternate layers until 
all the cabbage is used, pressing down each layer firmly, so that 
It will be under brine. It is well for two persons to handle the 
job together, one doing the cutting and the other the packing. 
The brine should rise quite freely when the kraut is pressed 
down with the hands. Cover with a clean white cloth, tucking 
in the edges firmly down the sides, then lay on fitted hardwood 
boards and on these a clean stone or several stones to weight the 
kraut down so that it will stay under brine. Let stand 2 or 3 
days, then dip off all you can of the old brine, which would 
become bitter, and fill up with hot water. Tie a clean cloth over 
the barrel and let the contents work. It will take from 2 to 3 
weeks before fermentation ceases. About once a week, there- 
after, carefully remove stones, boards and cloth, which will very 
likely be covered with skum, wash them clean, rinse in cold 
salt water, and return to the keg. A little hot water may be 
added from time to time, and a little salt, if it does not seem 
salt enough. The kraut should be just covered with brine, but 
it is not well to have, too much brine, as that softens it and 
makes it mushy. The secret of keeping kraut well and clean 
is in pressing down firmly, having it well weighted, and covered 
with not too much brine, thus keeping the air out. A good 
vinegar barrel is nice to use, and if it is too large, it can be 
sawed down to the required size. — [Mrs. G., Wis. 

To Keep Sauerkraut in Warm Weather 

When the warm spring days approach, the last of the sauer- 
kraut is in danger of spoiling. I pack the raw kraut in 2-qt 
glass fruit jars, cover with the brine, screw the tops on air- 
tight, and set the jars away in a cool place. I have kept sauer- 
kraut this way until the last of May, and the last can was as 
nice and fresh as the first. — [Mrs. N. S., Mich. 



Never use tin, copper or brass vessels for pickling, as the vin- 
egar or acids eat into the metal and produce an unwholesome 
result. The pickles can be colored nice and green by adding 
freshly gathered nasturtium leaves, horseradish leaves, grape 
or cherry leaves. But do not boil these with the pickle — just. 
put a few of them in the top of the jar. — [A. G., Mass. 



262 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

When pickling, do not use metal utensils, as the acid eats 
into them and produces a poison. Use agate or porcelain lined 
vessels and wooden spoons. — [A. G., Mass. 

This is a good rule for sweet fruit pickle: For 7 lbs fruit 
allow 1 qt vinegar, 3 ^/^ lbs brown or maple sugar, and 1 teasp 
each cinnamon, cloves, mace and allspice. — [Mrs. G. A. S., N. Y. 

This is an easy way to peel peaches; Put them in a wire 
Tjasket, dip in hot water a few moments, and then rub off the 
skins. By this method none of the fruit is wasted. — [M. E. F., 
Mo. 

After cutting up peppers for pickles or chow-chow, rub the 
Tiands well with wet salt before washing them, which will 
greatly lessen the smart that usually follows the handling of 
peppers. — [S. W. 

Fruit preserved in a sour or thick syrup, heavily spiced, does 
not need to be canned in air-tight jars. The jars that are not 
quite good enough for the regular canning can be used for 
pickled fruits. — [A. G., Mass. 

We use the following proportions for sauerkraut: To a 6-gal 
crock, use 1 cup salt and % cup sugar. As soon as fermenta- 
tion ceases, put the crock in a cool place. We think stone 
crocks are better than tubs or barrels. — [Mrs. J. C. C, R. I. 

When I take pickles out of the brine to freshen them for 
table use, I pour boiling water on them and let them stand in 
this water until cold. Then I freshen them in cold water. 
This treatment produces a nice, crisp pickle. — [Mrs. B. W., Mo. 

To make a strong brine for pickles, put in as much salt as 
the water will dissolve — better use too much salt than too little. 
A strong brine should float an egg. When salting cucumbers, 
some add water and some do not, claiming that the cucumbers 
and salt will make their own brine. I always add a little water, 
which seems to prevent the cucumbers from shriveling up. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Delightful flavors are imparted to cucumbers by adding any 
of the following: dill, celery seed, bay leaves, radish or nastur- 
tium seeds. Only the best, pure cider vinegar should be used 
in pickling — the artificial or chemical vinegar will make the 
cucumbers soft and has a very disagreeable taste. Green horse- 
radish root, grated or cut up in slices, will help to keep pickles 
and imparts a good flavor. — [A. G., Mass. 




Qatsups and Relishes 

AUCES and spiced relishes, in one shape 
or another, are to be found on almost every 
well equipped table, and while a too liberal 
indulgence in them is properly considered 
unwholesome, yet they fill a gastronomical 
want which is universal and therefore not 
to be overlooked. As almost all the ingredients except 
some of the spices and sugar are grown on the average 
home farm, catsups and sauces can be prepared at com- 
paratively small expense by country housekeepers, while 
town and city dwellers must pay high prices for the raw 
material of an inferior quality, or buy the ready-made 
bottled relishes of whose purity they cannot be assured. In 
preparing homemade catsups and relishes it is imperative 
that the following rules be observed: Have the bottles 
thoroughly clean and drained dry. Be sure the corks are 
sound and clean, and allow them to soak a little while in 
hot water before using. See to it that the corks are large 
•enough, and press them into the bottles as far as they 
will go. Then trim off the tops evenly with a sharp knife, 
and dip the top of each bottle to the depth of about one inch 
or more in a melted sealing mixture made of beeswax and 
rosin, in the proportion of one part rosin to two parts bees- 
wax, or dip the bottles into melted sealing wax the same 
as that used for sealing letters. Prepared paraffine or seal- 
ing wax cakes, ready for melting, can be bought in the 
stores. 

Ripe Tomato Catsup 

Wash and cut out the stem end of 1 pk good, ripe tomatoes. 
Cut up and boil until very soft, then rub through a colander 
first, and a fine sieve afterward. This will remove all the 
peel and seeds. Pour the strained tomato juice in an agate 
or porcelain lined kettle, put over the fire and add the follow- 
ing: 2 tablesp salt, 1 tablesp each ground black pepper, 
ground cloves and celery seed. 1 teasp cayenne pepper and 

263 



264 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



3 tablesp ground mustard. Put the celery seed in a cheese- 
cloth bag, and let the catsup boil about 6 hours, stirring 
occasionally until the last hour, then almost constantly to 
prevent burning. Pour into a stone jar, and let stand until 
perfectly cold, then add 1 pt good vinegar and remove the 
celery seed bag. Bottle, cork and seal. Keep in a cool, dark 
and dry place. — [Mrs. D. W. C, British Columbia. 



Green Tomato Catsup 

Chop fine '^^ bu green tomatoes and 2 large heads white 
cabbage, 2 doz onions, and 6 red peppers. To this add 2 good- 
sized pieces horseradish root, grated, and 1 cup salt. Mix 
thoroughly, put in a cheesecloth bag, hang up and let drip 
all night. Next morning turn the drained mixture into an 
agate or porcelain lined kettle, add enough good vinegar to 
cover, 2 cups sugar, 4 tablesp whole white mustard seed, and 
1 tablesp each celery seed, ground cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice. Put the spices in a cheesecloth bag and stir it through 
the mixture while cooking. Let this catsup boil about 15 min- 
utes, then turn it into stone jars, let cool, and put on a 
weighted cover, so that the juice will come well over the 
solid ingredients. In about one week this catsup will be 
ready to use. Keep in a cool, dark, dry place. — [Mrs. M. M. 
B., Mo. 



Cold Tomato Catsup 

To 1 pk ripe, peeled tomatoes, chopped fine and drained 
well, add 1 pt grated horseradish, 6 large, peeled onions and 
6 large stalks celery, both chopped fine, 1 tablesp each celery 
seed and white mustard seed, 6 mango peppers and 2 hot 
peppers, all chopped fine, 1 small cup salt, 2 cups brown sugar 
and good cider vinegar enough to cover. A little cloves and 
cinnamon may be added if liked. This catsup requires no 
cooking and will keep fine for a year, if set away in a cool 
place. It will keep for a longer time if sealed in glass jars 
and kept in a cool place. — [Mrs. J. S., Neb. 

Cold Cucumber Catsup 

To 12 good-sized, ripe cucumbers, peeled, seeds removed and 
chopped fine, add 4 peeled onions, chopped fine, 4 tablesp 
salt, 3 tablesp black pepper, 3 tablesp grated horseradish and 
1 qt best cider vinegar. Bottle, pour 1 teasp olive oil in top 
of each bottle, cork tightly, seal, and keep in a cool place. — 
[Mrs. W. M. G.. Ct. 



PEACH AND PLUM CATSUPS 265 



Quick Catsup from Canned Tomatoes 

Rub 2 qts canned tomatoes through a sieve, then add 1 
teasp each salt, cloves and allspice, i/4 teasp each red pepper 
and black pepper, 1 tablesp each sugar and fiour, and 1 cup 
vinegar. Boil until it thickens. Put up in bottles or jars and 
set away in a cool place. Sealing will hardly be necessary, 
as the quantity given is so small that the catsup will very 
likely be consumed before it would have a chance to spoil. — 
[A. L .B., Ida. 

Farmer's Catsup 

Chop fine 1 pk each green and ripe tomatoes, 1 large onion, 
and 4 heads cabbage. Sprinkle with 1 cup salt, mix thoroughly 
and let drain over night. The next morning add 1 gal good 
cider vinegar, and boil for 2 hours; then add 1 doz sweet 
peppers, 1 tablesp each celery seed, black pepper, ginger and 
mustard, and 1 teasp each cloves, allspice and cinnamon, % 
a nutmeg grated, 1 cup grated horseradish and 2 lbs brown 
sugar. Boil for another 10 or 15 minutes, and then can or 
bottle and seal. — [Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Tomato and Peach Catsup 

Chop fine i^ bu ripe tomatoes, 2 qts peaches, 12 onions and 
3 ripe, red peppers. Boil till soft, then strain and boil again 
until thick and n^ free water seems to be left in the mixture. 
After that add 1 qt vinegar, 2 lbs sugar, ^% cup salt, 1 tablesp 
mixed spices — cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace. Let this 
boil up thoroughly and then bottle, cork and seal. This recipe 
is well worth trying. — [Mrs. W. D. T., N. H. 

Peach Catsup 

When you are preparing peaches for canning or preserving, 
place the peelings and the inferior peaches in an earthen kettle, 
and boil in a very little water and a little salt. Press first 
through a colander and then through a fine wire sieve, and 
proceed with the pulp as you would with tomato catsup. This 
is very nice. — [E. E. W., Ore. 

Plum Catsup 

To 4 qts Damson plums, stewed and rubbed through a sieve, 
add 2 lbs brown sugar, 1 cup vinegar and 1 teasp ground cloves 
and cinnamon. A little pepper, allspice and salt may also be 
added, if liked. Cook slowly until thick, stirring often. 
Prunes may be substituted for the fresh plums and will make 
a very acceptable catsup. — [Mrs. W. C. T., N. Y. 



266 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Apple Catsup j 

Pare, core and quarter apples and stew in a very little water \ 

until tender. Rub through a sieve and to each qt pulp ! 

add 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp each salt, pepper, cloves, ground ■ 

mustard, 2 teasp cinnamon, 2 onions, chopped fine, and 1 pt i 

vinegar. Boil one hour, bottle, cork and seal while hot. — ! 

[Mrs. H. A. B., Mont. ■ 

Crabapple Catsup ] 

Stem and wash crabapples, stew until tender, using no i 

more water than necessary, then rub through a sieve and to \ 

each gal pulp add 1 qt vinegar, 1 tablesp each salt and black j 

pepper, 2 teasp mustard, 1 teasp each allspice and cloves and i 

pinch red pepper. Boil gently 1 hour, bottle, cork and ! 
seal while hot. — [Mrs. C. C. W., Mich. 

Cherry Catsup i 

To 2 qts chopped, stoned cherries, add 2 cups each sugar j 

and vinegar, ^2 teasp ground cloves and 1 tablesp ground ; 
cinnamon. Boil 15 minutes, set the kettle away until the 

next day, then boil 15 minutes longer and can while hot, or i 

bottle, cork and seal. — [C. T. D., Mo. I 

Currant Catsup \ 

Stem 2 qts ripe, red currants, and boil about 10 minutes with 

y2 pt water. Strain through colander and add y2 pt best j 

vinegar, 1 lb brown sugar, and 1 tablesp each mace, ground j 

cloves and cinnamon. Bottle, cork and seal while hot. — j 

[Mrs. J. A. W.. Mo. ] 

( 

Green Grape Catsup ! 

Stem green grapes, wash and cook until soft, with just j 
enough water to keep from burning, then strain out the 

skins and seeds through a colander. Weigh the strained ) 

pulp and allow 2 cups brown sugar to 2^/^ lbs pulp, 1 cup \ 

vinegar and 2 level teasp each salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon I 

and allspice. Cook slowly until it begins to thicken, then i 

bottle and seal. The spices can be put in a cheesecloth bag, ; 

if one is particular about the color of the catsup. — [Mrs. ] 

E. R. R., Me. ; 

Ripe Grape Catsup ! 

Stew 5 lbs grapes, stemmed and washed, until they are soft i 

enough to rub through a colander, leaving out skins and seeds. | 

To the strained pulp add 1 pt vinegar, 2 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp : 
each pepper, allspice, cloves and cinnamon, and i/^ teasp salt. 
Boil until thick, then bottle and seal. — [E. T., N. Y. 



COOKED AND UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE 26T 

Gooseberry Catsup 

To 12 lbs gooseberries add 6 lbs sugar, 1 qt vinegar, 2 tablesp^ 
each cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 1 tablesp black pepper, and 
1/^ teasp salt. Boil about one hour, or until thick. Bottle, 
cork and seal while hot. This makes about 1 gal catsup. — 
[Mrs. H. J. H., Col. 

Walnut Catsup 

The walnuts should be gathered while tender, when they 
can be easily pierced with a darning needle. White walnuts 
or butternuts are the best. Wash and wipe dry 100 tender, 
green walnuts, pierce them all over with a fork, place them 
in a large jar with 2 qts vinegar and 1 cup saLt, and let 
them stand 5 days, mashing and stirring them well every 
other day; then drain, squeeze out the juice and put the 
nuts in a porcelain kettle with i/^ pt fresh vinegar, ^/^ doz 
whole pepper corn, 1 tablesp cloves, 1 blade mace, 1 grated 
nutmeg, 1 little head garlic, 1 horseradish root, sliced, and 
1 pod red pepper. Let come slowly to a boil, and boil for 
20 minutes. Strain, cool, bottle and seal. — [E. E. W., Ore. 

Cooked Chili Sauce 

Peel and cut 1 pk sound, ripe tomatoes and cook 1 hour, 
then add 1 qt onions, 3 green peppers and 3 bunches celery, 
all chopped fine, % cup salt, 1 teasp each mustard, black 
pepper and cloves, 1 tablesp cinnamon, 1 lb brown sugar 
and 1 qt vinegar. Boil 1 hour, bottle while hot and cork 
and seal. Chopped apples and grated horseradish can be 
added to the above recipe, and also a little nutmeg, ginger, 
mace or cassia, if liked. Do not strain this sauce. — [G. L. 
N., N. Y. 

Uncooked Chili Sauce 

Peel and chop fine V2 pk good, ripe, solid tomatoes, 2 
cups celery, 2 cups onions and 2 small red peppers. Mix well 
and add V2 cup each salt, sugar and white mustard seed, 1 
tablesp each black pepper and ground cinnamon, and 1 qt 
good cider vinegar. This need not be cooked. Mix all ingre- 
dients well together, put in a stone crock, weight down with 
a small saucer, cover well with a cloth and paper and keep 
in a cool, dry, dark place. — [Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 

Red Cliili Sauce 

Boil 1 doz ripe chili peppers in water enough to cover. 
When thoroughly soft, press through a fine sieve, thus remov- 
ing seeds and skins, and bottle the pulp. This may be 
used as a sauce or as a seasoning in cooking rice, beans, or 
meat. — [Mrs. L. J., Cal. 



268 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



New England Chili Sauce 

Chop fine 1 pk green tomatoes, 1 small head cabbage, 12 
large, tart apples, 6 medium-sized onions and 4 large, green 
peppers. Mix thoroughly and add 1 tablesp each ground 
mustard, cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 2 lbs brown sugar, 2 
qts vinegar and y^ cup salt. Boil 2 hours and put away in 
crocks, well covered. Keep in a dark, cool and dry place. — 
[Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. 



Bordeaux Sauce 

To 2 qts chopped green tomatoes add 1 qt chopped cabbage, 
8 small onions, peeled and chopped fine, 1 Vz teasp each turmeric 
and white mustard seed, 1 tablesp cold allspice, 2 tablesp celery 
seed, 2 cups sugar, 4 tablesp salt, and 1 qt good cider vinegar. 
Boil % hour and seal while hot in glass jars or bottles. — 
[Mrs. W. W. B., N, Y. 

Celery Sauce 

Chop fine 2 qts cabbage, 2 qts celery and 4 qts green toma- 
toes; drain off all the water and juice, and add to the chopped 
mixture Vi lb ground yellow mustard, % lb sugar, 1 oz 
turmeric, V^. cup salt, 1 teasp each black pepper, ground cloves, 
cinnamon and celery seed and enough good vinegar to cover. 
Boil Vz hour and put up in air-tight jars. — [S. F. R., N. J. 

Chutney Sauce 

Chop fine 12 sour apples, peeled and cored, 2 peppers, 6 
tomatoes, 4 onions and 1 cup seeded raisins, then add 1 qt 
good cider vinegar, 2 tablesp each salt and white mustard, 2 
cups brown sugar, and a little cayenne pepper. Cook until 
soft. Bottle, cork and seal. — [Mrs. D. M. W., Mass. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To 1 qt grated horseradish add 1 qt cold vinegar, 2 teasp 
each salt and sugar, and 1 teasp white, ground pepper. Seal 
in wide-mouthed bottles or small glass jars. — [Miss I. J. K., 
Minn. 

Pickled Com Sauce 

Chop fine 1 large cabbage and 6 large peppers, sprinkle with 
■salt and let stand a while to draw off the juices. Then drain 
thoroughly, and add 3 pts boiled corn, cut from the cobs, and 
3 tabliesp each celery seed and white mustard seed. In another 



TOMATO SOY AND SAUCE 269' 



vessel bring to a boil 3 pts vinegar and 1 cup sugar, and add 
to this syrup a smooth paste made with a little vinegar and 
2 tablesp each cornstarch and ground mustard and 1 tablesp 
turmeric. Boil until the cornstarch is done, add the chopped 
cabbage, peppers, corn and spice mixture, and can while hot. 
It should be put up in air-tight cans. — [Mrs. I. C, N. J. 



Pickled Pumpkin Sauce 

Peel a firm, yellow pumpkin, remove the seeds, and cut 
in small dice-shaped pieces. Steam until quite tender, but 
not soft or mushy. Place in an agate vessel or earthen crock 
and cover with vinegar, then turn off the vinegar and sweeten 
it with 1 lb sugar. Add 2 ozs whole cloves, 2 ozs stick cin- 
namon and boil the vinegar, sugar and spices together. 
Turn this syrup while boiling hot over the steamed pumpkin, 
and let stand a week. Then drain off the juice, boil it again, 
pour over the pumpkin again, and let stand another week. 
Repeat this process a third time, after which the juice should 
be rich and delicious, but if it does not seem to be quite 
sweet enough add more sugar and boil down quite thick. 
Put away in a stone crock and weight down with a small 
saucer or plate that will fit inside the crock, so as to keep 
the pumpkin under the juice. Then cover the crock with a 
piece of thick paper. Can also be bottled and sealed like 
sauce, but I never lost any of mine when put away in stone 
crocks, as described. Keep in a dark, cool, dry place. — 
[J. U., Mich. 



Worcestershire Sauce 

Slice without peeling % bu ripe tomatoes and 10 lemons 
(remove stem ends from the tomatoes and seeds from the 
lemons), cover with 1 qt good cider vinegar, add % lb salt, 
1 lb brown sugar, 14 lb ground allspice, 1 oz ground cloves, and 
boil gently 2 hours, after which strain through a fine sieve and 
add the juice of 1 lemon. Bottle, cork and seal while hot. — 
[Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 



Green Tomato Soy 

Slice 2 gals green tomatoes without peeling, and 12 large, 
peeled onions, add 1 qt sugar, 2 tablesp each dry mustard, salt 
and black pepper, 1 tablesp each allspice and cloves and 2 qts 
good cider vinegar. Cook slowly 3 hours and put up in cans or 
bottles and seal. — [Miss L. M. R., Mich. 



270 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Ripe Tomato Soy I 

Peel and slice 1 pk good, ripe tomatoes and add 1 qt good 
vinegar, 3 V^ lbs brown sugar and 1 oz whole cloves. Boil 
slowly until it is rich and thick and reduced fully two-thirds. 
Bottle and seal. This will keep for years, and seems to get 
better with age. It is nice to serve with poultry, game or any 
meat.— [E. P. L. W., N. Y. 

Ripe Tomato Soy II 

Chop fine 12 ripe tomatoes, 10 onions, 10 large bell peppers, 
and add 1 qt good cider vinegar, 1 tablesp each salt and sugar, 
1 teasp each ground cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and a 
dash red pepper. Boil slowly until the consistency of apple 
butter, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. This amount 
will fill 2 qt glass jars. — [Mrs. M. V. H., Tenn. 

Wild Grape Relish 

Wash the grapes and cook them with only just enough 
water to prevent scorching. When soft, press through a sieve, 
and to each 10 lbs pulp add 5 lbs sugar, 1 tablesp ground cin- 
namon, 2 teasp ground cloves, 1 teasp allspice, 1 grated nut- 
meg, and 2 qts good vinegar. Boil slowly until as thick as 
catsup, and then bottle, cork and seal while hot. — [Mrs. J. 
L. R., O. 

Red Cabbage Relish 

To 1 qt raw, red cabbage, chopped fine, add 1 qt boiled, red 
beats, chopped fine, 2 cups sugar, 1 tablesp salt, 1 teasp 
black pepper, i^ teasp red pepper, 1 cup grated horseradish, 
and enough cold vinegar to cover. This requires no boiling, 
and when put up in air-tight jars will keep indefinitely. — 
[Mrs. S. E. F., Cal, 

Indian Chutney 

To 2 qts each chopped tart apples and green tomatoes, add 
1 lb seeded raisins, chopped, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 scant cups 
each lemon juice and vinegar, small y^ cup salt, 1 chopped 
onion, 1 teasp cayenne pepper and 1 oz ginger. Mix together 
well and let stand in an earthen jar over night. Next morn- 
ing set the jar in a kettle of cold water, let it heat slowly, and 
then boil 6 hours. Put up in cans and seal. — [Mrs. J. S., Ct. 



When making cold tomato catsup from ripe tomatoes, that 
requires no boiling, ripe nasturtium seeds are a nice addi- 
tion. — [A. G., Mass. 




Fire/ess ©ookery==The Hay Box 

HOUGH the method is old — almost a century 
old, it is said — yet "fireless cookery," brought 
up to date, may be new to many of the 
present day housewives. Our great-grand- 
mothers and grandmothers used the hay box 
in the "old country," and in the armies of the continent this 
same method of fireless cookery has been used with success 
for many years. Progressive American housewives are now 
adopting it and enthusiastically sounding its praises. 
Lecturers on domestic science are doing their best to spread 
before tired housewives the gospel of fireless and fuel- 
saving cookery, while the government, by means of bulletins, 
and the household magazines all over the land, are contribut- 
ing their share toward the enlightenment of the cook. Too 
much cannot be said in favor of the "hay box" and fireless 
cookery. Try it, and if at first you don't succeed, try, try 
again. The recipes following tell how to prepare some 
simple dishes for the hay box, but after all is said and done, 
everyone will do best to experiment for herself — nothing 
like experience to teach one the most valuable ''wrinkles" 
in cookery as well as in other departments of housekeeping. 

The Principle of It 

The principle of "fireless cookery" is simple enough: When 
anything has once reached the boiling point, all that is needed 
is to keep it there, and this is accomplished by boiling for a few 
minutes over a coal-fire, or an oil or gas stove, and then deposit- 
ing the boiling, bubbling food in the covered kettle in an air- 
tight receptacle closely packed with non-conducting material, 
which will retain the heat. This is what the hay box does. 
The primitive "hay box" has evoluted into the "asbestos box" 
and the "copper, double-tank cooker," exploited by ambitious 
manufacturers, but while the modern improvements have 
added greatly to the expense of the original "hay box," they 
have done very little, if anything, to make more easy or 
practicable the work which the unpretentious Invention of our 

271 



272 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



ancestors accomplished. The latter can be made right at 
home, without any, or hardly any expense, by any handy man 
of woman, in the following manner: 

The Construction of the Hay Box 

Secure or make a box, about the size and shape of a trunk, 
and hinge a snug fitting cover to it. If you can spare a 
trunk all the better, as that will save you the work of making 
the box and cover. In any case, whether it is a box or trunk, 
see to it that there are no cracks in it (if there are, fill them) 
and then line the inside with thick paper, pasting it in, and 
generously over-lapping all seams. In short, get it as air- 
tight as you can. If you can afford to line it with asbestos, 
all the better, but asbestos is not essential. Next pack in, 
three-quarters full, clean, sweet-smelling hay, as closely as 
you can, and make a ticking pillow stuffed with hay, to fit 
as an inside cover, and to fill the box snugly, before the 
top wooden cover is capped down. Be sure to have the pil- 
low large enough, and well and evenly stuffed — about 5 or 6 
inches thick. Nov/, all you need after that are two or three 
earthern, iron or granite-vv^are kettles, or .cook pots, (iron hold 
the heat best) with well fitting covers, and you are ready for 
business. 




The Hay Box and (a) Pillow 



HAY BOX CONSTRUCTION 27a 



Hollow out neat "nests" in the hay, into which the cook 
pots will just fit snugly up to the top, and after you have 
cooked the contents of the pot over the fire the required 
number of minutes, according to the "hay box recipes" for 
each dish, remove the pots to the hay box nests immediately, 
without lifting the covers, and quickly put over the hay pillow, 
clap down the cover, cover the whole box with an old, (clean) 
carpet, a shav/1 or coat, or an old quilt, and your soup, or 
meat, or stew, or whatever you have put in, will keep right 
on cooking, until you open the box again. 

The first cooking or boiling over a fire takes only from 
2 to 5 minutes, and can be done in the early morning. Re- 
member, the hay box cooks or stews — it does not roast or fry. 
Also, the hay box cooks more slowly than the fire, requiring 
about double the time, but it does it better, and more thor- 
oughly, retaining the juices and aroma, which make the food 
more wholesome and palatable. Care must be taken to keep 
the hay and pillow clean and sweet-smelling. It is necessary 
to renew the hay once a month. Some hay box devotees 
prefer small, separate hay boxes for each cook pot, and per- 
haps the beginner would do well to try that scheme first. If 
you have never tried "fireless cookery," make up your mind 
right nov/ that you will. — [Mrs. J. C, N. Y. 

A Few Additional Construction Hints 

The following hints about the making of hay box cookers 
were gleaned from various sources and are well worth repeat- 
ing. 

Get the thick, heavy paper necessary to line the hay box, 
from your local printer's shop. It won't cost much — it may 
cost nothing. 

If you have a large hay box, divide it into compartments, 
with wooden partitions, and separate covers and paper line 
the partition and covers, too. 

.Put castors under the hay box, so it can be easily moved. 

To save hay, use a layer of a crumpled newspaper, closely 
packed, in the bottom of the hay box. 

Use only fine hay, as that packs more closely. Never use 
coarse or clover hay. 

Put heavy weights on top of the cover of hay box, to 
prevent warping from steam. 

Earthern or iron pots are best for the hay box, as they 
retain heat better. Closely fitting covers are essential. 

Cover the hay pillow with a muslin slip, for the sake of 
cleanliness. For the same reason, line the nests and top of 
hay with muslin. This can be washed and saves hay from 
soil. 

Don't forget to pack the hay tight, tight, tight! 



274 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Be very sure that there are no sparks on the bottom of 
the cooking utensil when placed in the hay box, or the results 
will be disastrous. 

For rich preserves and jams that require long cooking over 
a slow fire, the hay box works to perfection. 

Set and securely and permanently fasten one box into an- 
other box about 2 or 3 inches larger all around, and tightly 
pack the space between with hay, excelsior, paper, sawdust or 
lamb'L wool, covering the outside box and lining the inside 
box, and you will have a fine fireless cooker. 

Some Hay Box Advantages 

Too much cannot be said in favor of the "hay box" or fire- 
less cooker. It is so nice to come home from church and find 
the Sunday dinner all ready to serve. It is so nice to be 
able to leave a hot, well-cooked dinner for the hungry men- 
folks, when we want to go visiting, and being able to do 
so encourages us to "take a day off" oftener. It is so nice 
to be able to cook a dinner for company a day beforehand, 
and so be free from care and able to enjoy their visit. 

It is a wonderful help to the mother of several little "early 
risers" to know that the coffee, cereal and various other things 
are all ready, and dressing the children doesn't delay the 
breakfast. Then it's a great saver of fuel, and the food is so 
much better cooked that it not only tastes better, but digests 
better also, which is worth taking into consideration. 

One can have hot water for a tub bath hours after all fires are 
out, by putting the kettle in the hay box, and milk or water can 
be kept warm all night for a baby in a little box made just for 
the purpose. Also, dinner can be got ready while cooking 
breakfast, and the forenoon used to better advantage than 
bending all morning over a hot stove. — [J. R., Ind. 

Caution 

Be careful not to use too much water, as it is not necessary 
to allow for evaporation in hay box cookery. Remember this 
in preparing every dish; and also remember that it is most 
important to have the various dishes boiling briskly, and not 
to lift the lid before and after a vessel is once placed in the hay 
Tdox. As nothing ever burns in the hay box, it will do no harm to 
leave things in a little longer, and don't be afraid that they'll 
get overdone, for they won't. But after you have once lifted 
the cover or taken a dish out of the hay box it won't boil 
any more, so be careful about removing anything too soon. 



HAY BOXES AND BUCKETS 



275 



F^ireless Qookeps, Bi^ and Little 

My first fireless cooking experiment was with a common 
wooden candy bucket, such as the grocer will give you or sell 
for a few cents. I divided the lid into two parts — one being 
about three-quarters and the other one-quarter, and nailed 
the smaller part snugly in place on the bucket. Hinges of 
pieces of leather from an old shoe top fastened the larger 
piece to the small one. A narrow strip of leather at the 
outer edge, and a screw in the side of the bucket, just where 
the "buttonhole" in the end of the leather strip would easily 
slip over it, secured the lid when the cooker was in use. It 
would be well perhaps, to stay the lid by cross strips, for 
fear of warping, as a certain amount of steam escapes from 
the tightest vessel. 




A Wooden Bucket Fireless Cooker 



The bucket may be covered with a ruffle to hide the sides, 
and have a cushion on top, and will make an odd little seat 
in the kitchen or dining room. It keeps the heat as well 
as anything I know, if it is papered several times, inside and 
out. I use excelsior for packing and pack it very hard, fill- 
ing to within 2 inches of the top. The nest for the kettle is 
made close fitting at the bottom of the pail, and gradually 
slants to the top, until it is a third as thick in packing. This 
allows the pillow for closing to tuck in very snugly, and keeps 
the air out better than when the hay or excelsior nest is level 
with the top of the kettle and the pillow laid across the 
whole surface. 



276 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Some say that the hay or excelsior must be changed every 
few weeks, but I do not see why. Unless food is spilled into 
the nest, or left in so long that it sours, the filling does not 
become tainted for many months. An occasional sunning of 
the filling, the leaving of the cooker open after the removal 
of coiLtents, until thoroughly aired, is generally sufficient 
to keep it in good order. I find that the filling in the cover- 
pillow needs renewing most often, as it crushes up, and also, 
being handled most, is apt to get dirty. Another discovery is 
that the use of newspapers and other paper is a big help in 
the cooker. Not only may the box be papered smoothly, layer 
after layer, but if hay or excelsior are not handy, you may 
fill the box entirely with crushed or cut up paper. 

My large fireless cooker is considered quite a triumph by 
all my friends. In the first place it makes a nice looking piece 
of furniture, which looks well in the dining room as well as 
kitchen, and again it is convenient because each nest can be 
opened without touching either of the others, and lastly 
because a woman built it, for I did every bit of the work myself. 
I made it about as high as a low table, because I am owner of 
a "back" and do not enjoy stooping. As the cut shows, it 
is of convenient width and will slip nicely under the drain- 
board of the sink, when necessary. It may be used as a table 
on emergency, although if wanted for such use a good plan 
would be to omit the knob lifters for the lid sections, and 
use rings instead. Make a shallow hole in which these can 
lie when not in use, and then the top of the cooker will be 
smooth, and with an oil cloth spread, will make a very handy 
supplementary table. 

ii.nother idea for added convenience would be to have a 
deep drawer or even a shelf space in the bottom, as the depth 
is not needed by the cooker, and these would be handy in 
almost any kitchen. The drawer would be nice to hold extra 
papers for use about the cooker, or, if the shelf space was 
substituted, a drop cover could snugly shut in the various 
pots used in the cooking. 

Ball bearing castors make it easy to move the cooker from 
room to room, or out on the porch. They cost but a few cents 
more than ordinary castors, and save oilcloth, carpets, and 
temper. Tiie top of the cooker was made with three openings, 
as is shown, and each was "flanged" with strips all around the 
lid, so that it sets down snugly on all sides. But whatever 
plan you follow for the box, I would advise that you have 
some sort of partition between the sections, for then, when 
you open the cooker to take out one dish, you will not dimin- 
ish the heat in any other section. Each section should be 
lined and packed as if it were a separate affair. 

Remember that you must not expect anything crisp from 
the cooker, but for anything to be steamed, boiled or baked — 
all but the crispy part — this hay box method is most satis- 



A FIRELESS COOKER 



277 



factory. Any article of food takes, on general principles 
about three or four times as long to cook in the fireless box 
No absolute rule can be given, as there are so manv ways of 
making heat, and so many degrees of heat-conserving, through 
the close or loose packing of the box. And the time on the 
stove for preliminary boiling, of course, varies somewhat 
These are things you must learn in absoluteness for yourself' 
However, here is a good thing to remember, that the longer 
time hurts nothing, so when in doubt at first, put everything 
in for longer than you think will be needed. The utensils 
should be of iron, enamel-ware or stone, to do the best but 
tin or aluminum can be used. A pie pan that will set snugly 
into the top of a kettle, or even a basin makes a lid that will 
allow another utensil to sit easily on top of the lower one in 
each nest. 




A Fireless Cooker With Three Compartments 



I haven't said much about the size of the sections of the 
cooker, for the reason that one person cannot very well dictate 
this part. Take the largest kettle you use for your family 
cookery, and allow the section to be at least 2 inches larger 
around, inside measure, and you will about hit it. Two 
inches of excelsior or hay all around the pot, if tightly packed, 
will be about enough, especially if the box is well papered. 



278 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Builder's paper is good for lining, and if it is used, there is 
not so much need of any other packing. Asbestos is also good 
for lining, and a space not much larger than your kettle will 
do if asbestos is used. 

For a small batch of bread, the fireless cooker is fine. Set 
your sponge at night as usual, have the nest warm from the 
holding of a pot of boiling water while you have been mixing 
the sponge, and tuck the setting away all night, to keep cozy 
and raise. For a large baking an ordinary cooker would 
hardly furnish a compartment large enough. But if I had 
that to do, I would get a box that would nicely hold my big 
pan, and fix it up in a similar manner, and be sure of evenly 
raised bread dough, both for the first and second raisings. 

Of all discoveries for lightening the housewife's work, the 
method of cooking by sustained heat is clearly first. So many 
people say, "But how can it be?" But v/hen one stops to 
think, the principle is simple and clear. We know that when 
we have any article of food that needs long cooking, we put 
it at the front of the stove until it boils well, then remove it 
where it is less hot, to keep to a steady boiling-point. Well, 
in the hay box this point is maintained by the simple process 
of conserving the heat that is already in the boiling kettle. 

Don't think you must not use the fireless cooker in winter. 
I am not v/edded to my kitchen even in winter, and would 
rather sit in the dining room and sew than stand over the 
stove half a day. God bless the person, say I, who discovered 
fireless, heatless, and temperless cookery, and may each driven 
housemother in the world learn its value to herself and her 
home. More time for getting acquainted with books, flowers, 
fancy work and people — including her own dear ones — and 
more happiness and good cheer follow in the wake of the 
fireless cooker. — [M. M. F., Cal. 

Cooking Suggestions and General Directions 

Rice, oatmeal or other cereals need a start of 5 minutes' 
cooking over a fire. If wanted for breakfast, can remain in 
hay box all night. Food cooked in hay box never burns and 
never gets overdone. 

Pot roast should first be browned or seared over the fire, 
then cooked about 2 minutes before putting in hay box, where 
it should remain about 4 hours. Treat chicken the same, but 
if it is old, leave longer in hay box. 

For baked beans, soak over night, parboil, mix and boil 10 
minutes, then put in hay box at least 6 hours. Take out and 
brown in oven. 

Soups and stews, after a good start over the fire, should 
have from 6 to 8 hours in the hay box. Vegetables require 
only 2 to 3 hours in the box — potatoes a little longer. 



PIRELBSS COOKING RECIPES 279 



The time required for cooking is indicated in the special 
recipes, but things requiring only 2 hours can be put in with 
others requiring 8 or 10 hours, so the box need not be dis- 
turbed, as long standing does not spoil anything in the least. 
Whatever is cooked in the hay box requires at least twice as 
long cooking as over the fire. Plenty of water must be put in 
at the start for all dried foods that swell — beans, cereals, dried 
fruit, etc. — and no water allowed for evaporation with the 
other sorts. 

Nearly all desserts will cook in 2 hours in the hay box, but 
it does not follow that they cannot be put in until 2 hours 
before wanted, as they remain hot a long time and can be left 
in all day if that is most convenient. 

Cereal Coffee 

This is never at its best unless boiled a long time, so the 
hay box is a particularly good way to cook it for breakfast, 
when one seldom can take the time to boil it as long as it 
should be. Put in the usual proportions, cook 5 minutes on the 
fire and set in the hay box over night. In the morning strain 
and heat to boiling. 

Breads and Puddings 

Steamed breads and puddings can be finished in the hay 
box by placing one vessel within another, half filling the outer 
vessel with boiling water. Place a wire rack between the 
bottoms of the two vessels, so that they won't touch and the 
boiling water can reach all parts. Boston brown or graham 
breads require only about ^/^ hour over the fire and 5 hours in 
the hay box. Plum pudding takes about the same time in the 
box, but should first have an hour's boiling over the fire. 
Tapioca pudding and rice require only about 5 minutes' cook- 
ing and 2 hours in the box. 

Rice Pudding 

Put 1 Qt milk, a good i/4 cup each of rice and sugar, 1 
tablesp butter, % teasp salt, and the grated rind of a lemon 
or other flavoring, into a deep pudding pan. Bring the milk to- 
boiling, set the pan in a kettle of boiling water, let boil 5 
minutes and remove to the hay box without raising the lid. 
Leave in 3 hours or longer. Each grain will be whole and 
separate, but soft as jelly. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

To 1 cup each of cornmeal, rye meal and graham flour add 
2 teasp soda and 1 of salt, % cup molasses and 2 cups sour 
milk. Pour into a buttered mold not over % full. Place a rack 



280 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



{tea-stand or iron-stand) in a kettle, set in the bread mold, 
fill kettle nearly to the top of mold with boiling water, cover 
and boil % hour on the stove. Remove to hay box and cook 
for 5 or 6 hours. If fruit bread is wanted, add Vz cup raisins 
to the mixture. 

Steamed Berry Pudding 

Cream ^/^ cup sugar and 1 egg; add % cup milk, 2 teasp 
baking powder and flour to make as stiff as cake. Stir into 
this an equal quantity of any sort of fresh, small fruit — ber- 
ries, cherries, etc. — and pour into buttered pudding mold. Stand 
in a covered kettle of boiling water and boil ^^ hour to heat 
the mixture through. Remove to the hay box while closely 
covered, and cook 2 hours or longer. Serve with cream and 
sugar or any preferred sauce. Increase the quantities accord- 
ing to the number to be served, as this makes only a small 
pudding. 

Brown Betty 

Mix l^/^ cups fine bread crumbs with 2 cups minced tart 
apples. Add V2 teasp each cinnamon and allspice, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, a lump of butter, sugar to taste, milk to make a 
thin batter, and turn into a buttered pudding dish. Set in 
a covered kettle of boiling water and cook on the fire 20 
minutes and in the hay box 3 hours. Serve with any preferred 
liquid sauce. 

Dried Fruit Sauce 

First wash well and then soak evaporated peaches, apples, 
prunes, pears or apricots over night in cold water. In the 
morning add sugar according to the kind of fruit, boil 5 
minutes, then set in the hay box 2 hours. Or, the sugar may 
be omitted and boiled to a syrup separately and added after 
the fruit is cooked. 

Pot Roasts and Boiled Meats 

Boiled meats or pot roasts or fowl are all improved in flavor 
by long and slow cooking. For this reason the hay box is 
admirably adapted for the preparation of such dishes, as there 
is no escape of steam and aroma. Prepare over the fire in the 
usual way, boil from % to 1 hour, and finish in the hay box 
from 3 to 4 hours, sometimes longer, as in the case of a whole 
ham, when 8 to 10 hours are none too long. 

Rolled Beefsteak 

Remove bone from a steak cut about % inch thick. Spread 
with a nice dressing made as for chicken, with bread crumbs, 
melted butter, salt, pepper and poultry seasoning or sweet 
herbs, press the dressing down smoothly, roll and wrap 
securely with twine. Put V2 cup drippings into a heavy skillet 



HAY BOX DINNERS 281 



and when quite hot lay in the roll and turn it until browned 
all around. Lift into a kettle and add 2 tablesp flour to the 
remaining grease; when browned add 1 pt water, salt and 
pepper to season, and when it has boiled, pour it over the beef 
roll in the kettle. Start the meat to boiling briskly in the 
gravy, then remove, closely covered, to the hay box and leave 
for 5 or 6 hours. Lift to a hot platter, add a little grated 
onion to the gravy and pour it over the loaf. 

Boiled Dinner 

Put the ham or corned beef in water first and boil V2 hour, 
then add cabbage, onions, turnips, carrots, potatoes or what- 
ever assortment of vegetables is liked and let all boil again 
for 10 minutes, then put in the hay box for 4 to 6 hours. 

Chicken Stew 

Joint and boil for 2 minutes on the stove. Lift out the 
chicken and add a cup of cream, enough flour to thicken 
slightly, salt and pepper to season. Stir until it boils, add the 
chicken, boil 10 minutes again, then put into hay box for 
3 hours or longer, according to age. 

Old Chicken Fried 

With the aid of the hay box one can have fried chicken any 
morning for breakfast, even from the =dest hen on the place. 
Joint, add boiling water to cover, salt to season, and boil 15 
minutes. Put in the hay box over night. In the morning, 
drain out the pieces, roll in flour, and fry brown. Use broth 
for making gravy. 

Boiled Ham 

Soak in water over night, scrape and clean, and boil on stove 
% hour, then place in hay box 8 hours. Remove the rind and 
bake V2 hour if liked, or slice without baking. 

Boiled Fish 

Roll the fish in a strip of cheesecloth, tie the ends, and drop 
into boiling water, adding salt and a little vinegar or juice ol 
lemon. Boil 5 minutes on stove and 2 or 3 hours in hay box. 
Drain and serve with any preferred fish sauce. 

Vegetables 

A preliminary cooking of 5 to 15 minutes over the fire for 
vegetables is usually enough, supplemented by 2 to 3 hours in 
the hay box. Dry vegetables absorb a lot of water, so enough 
must be put in at once, as it is of course impossible to add any 
during its cooking in the hay box. Dried corn or beans should 
be soaked over night in water before cooking, and also dried 
fruits. 



282 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Green Corn and Peas 

Husk corn, put in boiling water to cover, adding salt and a 
little sugar, boil 5 minutes on the stove, and remove to hay box 
for 2 hours. (Longer if wished to keep hot.) Boil peas 10 
minutes on stove, add milk to cover, butter, salt and pepper 
to season, bring to a boil again, and put into hay box 2 hours. 

Asparagus 

Cut off tough ends, cover with water, boil 5 minutes on stove 
and place in the hay box 1 hour. If one likes to use the 
liquid in which it is cooked, milk, butter, pepper and salt may 
be added and it is ready when taken up; otherwise, the water 
can be drained off when taken up and a cream sauce made 
over the fire. 

Summer Squash 

Pare, remove seeds and cut in small pieces, add water and 
"boil 5 minutes on the stove and 2 hours in the hay box. Drain, 
mash, season with butter, salt, pepper, and a little cream if 
liked. 

Beets 

V/ash, and boil 10 minutes on the stove. Place in the hay 
box 2 hours. Slip off skins, chop fine, and season generously 
with butter and pepper; also add some sugar and salt, and 
either V2 cup sweet cream or a little vinegar, as preferred, 
but don't add both cream and vinegar. 

String Beans 

Break into i/^-inch pieces, boil 5 minutes on the stove, drain 
off water and cover with boiling milk. Season with butter, 
salt and pepper, bring to a brisk boil and put into the hay 
box for 5 hours. Another way: Brown 1 tablesp each flour 
and lard in the kettle, add the beans and enough water to 
<jover, stir well, add salt and pepper, also salt pork if liked, 
boil 5 minutes and cook in hay box 5 hours. 

Dry Beans 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning add a pinch of 
soda and bring to a boil. Drain off this water and add 
a piece of salt pork, salt and pepper, and boil 5 minutes over 
the fire. Put into the hay box 6 hours. If wanted baked, 
-when they are tender, add 4 tablesp cooking molasses, turn 
into a baking dish, cover with the pork, sliced, and bake ^ 
iLOur. 



^estin^ 




"Sfe syltetl) h^g Y" cttlynge trougl)a 

'jXnb 6oalefuUe looK^tl) be 

ZXtib maketl) soun6e to alle arouitdc 

Vt^b"^ b^ ntii? b<Mplr^ see. 

'Tor now Is It b^f eat^^nge t?me 

"i^nd nou^bt wytblttne tbeyre be. 



"Ka ntaketb plaint, beseacbful. sab, 

3fe gazetb far and neare. 

IK^.* forebea6 batb a troubled look 

la^.f eyes a bauntynge feare 

I3ill. falletb in b^'^ trougb^' gadzook 

Of corn a dozen yeare. 





Ob^n stllletb b^ b^* lustle voi?c<fc 

'!2Vn5 syttetb be to sap. 

ytox lookytb be to rlgbt »tot lefte 

^lll alle. Is eaten uppe. 

5tor lystetb be r- summer skies 

^ut layetb lip to cup. 



O full and square b^* «oble brppes 
"^nd pynkle-wblte b^* sklnne. 
"3*m ravlsbed by b^* dalntye feet. 
"Jf^.* cboppes my fancle wlnne. 
"^And wben y* froste Is on y* lea 
l^e poarke is ^aytbered Inne, 




C¥/ynJ O^ MavU^. 




Butchering Time Recipes 

ERHAPS there is no work which falls to 
the lot of housekeepers on our farms that 
is more dreaded or disliked by them than 
the yearly or semi-yearly jobs connected 
with butchering time, which the women 
must perform — the trimming, salting, cur- 
ing, pickling and smoking, and the rendering of fat. 
(Though fresh meat is rare in many farm homes most of 
the year, when butchering time comes, there is such a 
plethora of it that the appetite and appreciation for it 
decrease at a rapid rate. This is only natural, and it is 
therefore well to know how to preserve as much of it as 
possible, for use during those seasons when fresh meat, or 
meat of any kind besides poultry, is not so plentiful. A 
careful study of the following recipes will convince the 
economical and ambitious housewives that there need be 
very little, if any, waste at butchering time, and that there 
need be no monotony or lack of good meat ''timber" in 
farm homes, where the farmers do their own butchering. 

How to Cut Up a Beef 

■When killing a beef it is very essential to properly quarter 
and cut the carcass, in order that the good cuts may be sepa- 
rated from the poor. Figure I illustrates the ordinary method 
of cutting up a beef, now used by butchers. The following 
explanation of the various parts gives the names of these cuts 
and the common uses to which they are put: 

The hind quarter is divided into nine cuts as follows: No 1, 
choice roasts, the porter and sirloin steaks; 2, rump, used for 
steaks, stews and corned beef; 3, aitch-bone, used for boiling 
pieces, stews and pot roasts; 4, bullock or round steak, for 
roasts or boiling pieces; 5, bottom round, for boiling and stew- 
ing; 6, shin or leg, for soups and hashes; 7, thick flank, for 
stews, corned beef and boiling pieces; 8, veiny piece, for 
corned or dried beef; 9, thin flank, for corned beef and boiling. 

The fore quarter is divided into nine parts as follows: No 10, 
forerib, prime roasts and fine steaks; 11, middle ribs, prime 

283 



284 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



roasts; 12, chuck ribs, the second quality of roasts and steaks; 
13, brisket, for corned beef, soups, etc; 14, shoulder, piece, for 
soups, mince meat, and hashes; 15-16, neck, for soup, mince 
meat, hash and bologna sausage; 17, shin or shank, for soups 
and stews; 18, cheek, for mince meat and sausage. 

The Chicago retail meat dealers have a somewhat different 
method of cutting up the animal, as shown in Pig II. The 




FIG I — COMMON CUTTING METHOD 




FIG II — CHICAGO RETAIL METHOD 



BUTCHERING TIME HINTS 285 

parts as numbered on the sketch are: 1, neck; 2, chuck; 3, 
prime rib; 4, porterhouse; 5, sirloin; 6, rump; 7, round; 8 
plate; 9, flank; 10, shin; 11, shank. They cut a larger part 
of the animal in the portions 3, 4, and 5, which represent the 
higher priced cuts. — [F & H. 

About Pork Making 

Hog killing and pork making on the farm have become 
almost lost arts in these days of mammoth packing establish- 
ments which handle such enormous numbers of swine at all 
seasons of the year, says the editor of "Home Pork Making," 
published by the Orange Judd Company, New York and Chi- 
cago. Yet the progressive farmer of today should not only pro- 
vide his own fresh and cured pork for family use, but also 
should be able to supply at remunerative prices such persons 
in his neighborhood as appreciate the excellence and general 
merit or economy of homemade pork product. "Home Pork 
Making" is a complete guide for the farmer in all that pertains 
to hog slaughtering, curing, preserving and storing pork prod- 
uct, from scalding vat to kitchen table and dining room, 
including numerous prize recipes. 

The general appearance of the most choice pork is from an 
animal, the carcass of which will not weigh less than 50 lbs, 
and not more than 120 lbs, according to Voe, author of the 
"Market Assistant" published by Orange Judd Company, New 
York and Chicago. The skin should present a semi-transparent 
appearance, approaching white in color; the fat on the back 
should not be less than half inch thick, white and firm, and 
the lean should be of a pale reddish color, and juicy. ' The 
skin of the older animals is thicker and coarser, while the lean 
is of a darker color, but equally sweet, juicy and tender. By 
many, fresh pork is considered to be exceedingly unwholesome 
during the months of the year of high temperature. This, no 
doubt, to a great extent is true, the fatty, gross character of the 
flesh not being easily assimilated, when the animal economy of 
the human system requires less heating nourishment to the 
blood, and therefore requires less irritating food to the diges- 
tive organs. 

The carcass of pork being intended for immediate use while 
in its first state, is hung by the foot of its right hind leg, then 
cut down through the skin of the center of the back from the 
tail to the neck, followed with the splitting down of the back 
bone through the line of the incision, dividing it into halves or 
sides. These are again divided, after taking off the head, into 
quarters. The hind quarter is first divided by taking off the 
leg of pork and when intended for corning, should be kept in 
pickle 10 or 12 days before use. The loin of pork, if not too 
fat, is good for roasting and also furnishes fine pork chops and 



286 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



delicate pieces for corning. The fore quarter of pork if small, 
is often roasted whole, after having the hlade bone removed; 
If large, it is divided across the ribs, using the thin part or 
brisket of pork for corning, after taking off the hocks and feet. 
Figure I, which shows the pork carcass lying on a block or 
table, furnishes a good diagram for cutting. First separate the 
head from the carcass, then split the carcass through the back 
bone with a chopper, then with a sharp knife loosen the leaf 
and kidney fat and tear it away toward the leg, the kidney, of 
course, being brought away with it. Each side is then divided 
into its fore and hind quarters by leaving two ribs on each of 
the latter. The next cut loosens the tenderloin from where it 
is connected with the ham, when it is torn out upwards toward 




FIG I — PORK CARCASS ON A BLOCK 1 

■i 

the ribs or head. The hams are then removed, beginning at the ' 
tail side and cutting circularly to the flank, after sawing the j 
small bone about half way and chopping or sawing off the feet. ' 
Next cut off the brisket of pork, which is usually corned. The | 
chine of pork, without the back fat, is much used for chops, . 
steaks or roasting, while some prefer this part for sausage I 
meat. The back fat, on the loin, is also taken off in the same ] 
manner, when the loin is prepared for either chops or roast- ' 
ing. ! 

Figure II represents the mode of cutting pork carcass for j 
barreling. The same mode of cutting is here adapted, by sep- j 
arting the head from the carcass, then splitting the carcass, ! 
cutting off the fresh hams and feet, tearing out the leaf and ■ 
kidney fat, taking out the tenderloin — as previously shown. 
Then the head (10 and 3) is divided by cutting off the cheeks, 
beginning from the corner of the mouth, following the line \ 
towards 9 (see also Fig I, A B), and saw off the jawbone, j 
which separates the cheeks from the plate; then crack the bone j 
of the under jaw between the front teeth and the cheeks, held < 
together to hang up by. Next take off the shoulder by cutting | 
straight across the side, as shown Fig I (D); then trim off the '• 



CUTTING UP THE HOG 



287 



spare ribs, by cutting under the breast-bone, and so follow tlie= 
ribs as far as the chine-bone, when the knife is continued on 
directly to the end of the long bones in the back, which leaves, 
the shoulder about one thickness, and the spare-ribs (not too- 
spare), with meat enough left on them to make a roast. Then 
trim the shoulder round (see 2), and saw off the feet, which 
forms the shoulder similar to a ham. The brisket and flanks 
are next cut off, then the ribs (5) and loin pieces (4) are cut 
In suitable sizes, when all are ready to salt, except that the 
trimmings and some other pieces can be used for sausages. 
The leaf fat and pieces of fat are rendered into lard, and the- 
pate, etc, is used for head cheese. 




FIG II — HOW TO CUT PORK FOR BARRELING 



1. 


Leg, or fresh ham. 


7. 


Flank. 


2. 


Shoulder (after being trimmed). 


8. 


Tail-piece. 


3. 


Chops or cheeks. 


9. 


Neck-piece. 


4. 


Loin-pieces. 


10. 


Pate or skull. 


5. 


Rib, or chine-pieces. 


11. 


Feet. 


6. 


Brisket. 







The flesh of the hog, diseased when slaughtered, is exceed- 
ingly unwholesome, and is not fit to be used for any purpose. 
Certain diseases may be known by yellowish lumps or kernels 
distributed through the fat and lean, and the flesh having a 
heavy, dull appearance. 



By Way of Preparation 

The day before you butcher, sharpen the knives, prepare 
the table, and set down the dipping barrel half of its depth 
into the ground, tilting it toward the table. Now fix a pulley 



288 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

■directly above, which should be used when dipping, and also 
-when hanging the pork to cool. If the weather is not very 
cold, butcher in the evening, so as to allow the pork to cool 
quickly, but in cold weather begin early in the morning and 
have plenty of boiling water and everything else in readiness. 
IF & H. 

Cleaning and Separating the Entrails 

As soon as the entrails are removed from the carcass, carry 
them into the house, lay out on a table, and go to work 
swiftly, before they have a chance to get cold. Have ready 
several sharp little knives, plenty of clean cloths, and some 
twine. The table should be long and narrow, and tipped up 
slightly at one end, and the feet at the other end placed in 
a large tub, to catch the drip. Better still is a flat wooden 
flue, of the correct width and length, with a 6-inch strip nailed 
along each side. 

Carefully cut away all fat and throw into cold salt water, 
the leaf lard being put in a separate vessel. Put the heart, 
liidneys and liver in a separate vessel of salt water, being 
careful not to break the gall bag. If an ox, save the latter, 
as ox gall is good for many things. Clean the stomach and 
also put in salt water, and treat the casings the same. Waste 
can be fed to the chickens. If you should happen to cut into 
the intestines, quickly tie up with twine and clean away excre- 
ment. It is better for two people to go at this work, to finish 
hefore it gets cold. — [A. G., Mass. 

When Beef Is Killed 

When the weather gets cold, and after the beef is butchered, 
we let it hang for 2 or 3 days in a cool place, and then cut it 
np. We cut quite a number of nice lean pieces without any 
iDone in them, and put them in brine for 2 or 3 weeks, then 
take them out and wipe dry, and put each one into a little 
cheesecloth sack, and hang over the cook stove to dry. This 
makes our dried beef. This is the way we hang them up: 
We take two pieces of rope about 2 feet long, and double 
them and fasten the ends to the ceiling about 5 feet apart, 
letting the loops hang down. Then we take a long smooth 
stick, and fasten all the little cheesecloth sacks of beef on the 
stick, and put each end of the stick in the loops of rope. 

We use some of the beef to make several large crocks of 
mincemeat, as it will keep all winter in a cold place. The rest 
of the beef we corn. Be most particular about the barrel 
— ^never use a barrel that has been used for other purposes, 
t)r if beef has ever soured in it. Get a new barrel, (a good 
molasses barrel is best), and clean it well. 



PACKING PORK IN SALT 289 



Cut all the large bone out of the meat and then pack the 
beef in the barrel tightly. Cover with a hardwood board that 
will fit down in the barrel, put a clean, heavy stone on it, and 
it is ready for the pickling brine, which we make as follows: 
To 2 gals water add 3 lbs salt, 1 lb sugar, 1 oz saltpeter, and 
2 tablesp baking soda. Make as many gallons as you need, 
adding the same ingredients to every 2 gals water. Put in 
a boiler, boil, skim well, and pour boiling hot over the beef. 
Be sure the brine covers the beef well — yes, more than covers 
it — as it will soak in the beef some. If you should ever need 
to add more brine, do not put it on hot — that is only done 
the first time. — [Farmer's Wife, Colo. 



To Pack Pork in Salt 

The pork should hang in a cool place over night. Be sure 
that all the animal heat is out of it. Cut the sides into strips 
crosswise. Cover the bottom of a perfectly clean barrel with 
clean, coarse salt, and then pack in the strips of pork closely, 
edgewise, with the rind next to the barrel. Then fill the crev- 
ices in between with salt, and cover the top of the layer with 
salt, and proceed in this way until the pork is all in, or the 
barrel is filled. Make a strong brine of salt and cold water, 
using so much salt that the water will not dissolve any more — 
it should be strong enough to float an- egg. Boil and skim this 
brine, and then pour it into the barrel over the pork, while 
boiling hot. Cover the pork with a round, hard piece of 
board, a little smaller than the barrel head, put a clean stone 
on it, heavy enough to keep it down under the brine, then 
cover the barrel and set away in a cool, dry place. If at any 
time the brine should froth or look red, it should be turned 
out, scalded and skimmed, and then poured over the meat 
again scalding hot. Never put cold brine on old pork. We 
have pickled our pork in this way for many years, and have 
never lost any. When wanted for use freshen the pork by 
letting it stand in warm water on the back of the stove about 
half hour. — [Mrs. E. E. J., Cal. 



To Pack Frozen Meat in Hay-Box 

Take a large, strong, tight, wooden dry goods box, line 
inside with several thicknesses of paper, pasting it in closely 
and overlapping the seams generously, then put a thick layer 
of hay or sawdust in the bottom of the box, and cover with 
paper. Freeze hams, spare ribs, shoulders, or any pieces of 
fresh pork, beef, or poultry that you wish to keep fresh for 
future use, and be sure that the freezing is most thorough, 



290 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



so that each piece is frozen all the way through. Wrap each 
piece separately in several layers of clean, light brown paper, 
then pack a layer of these pieces in a box prepared as above, 
fill all the crevices between the pieces with fine hay, packing 
it in solidly, cover the layer of meat pieces with about 5 or 6 
inches of hay, then pack in more meat as directed above, and 
so on until all the frozen meat is stored, or the box is full, 
being careful to have plenty of hay all around the sides, and 
on the top. Next put on a tight cover of wood, also lined 
with paper inside, and throw some thick covering over the 
box, such as an old comforter, blanket, fur robe, or a piece 
of heavy carpet. The box, of course, should stand in a cold 
and dry place. Frozen meat packed in this way will remain 
frozen and sweet for months, and will even withstand quite a 
long thaw. — [Mrs. I. R. N., Me. 

Canning Meat, Poultry and Sausages 



Cut the meat or poultry in pieces of convenient size, trim i 

carefully, and be sure they are sweet and clean. Boil until I 

tender in enough water to cover, seasoning to taste, the same \ 

as for immediate use, and when all the meat is well done \ 

and tender, press a little at a time in hot glass fruit jars, j 

then pour in a little of the hot gravy (which should first have i 

been boiled down until it is almost ready to jelly when cold), I 

until the gravy fills up all the vacant places around the meat, j 

but not enough to cause the meat to float. Then press in ) 

another layer of meat and more gravy, and proceed in this I 

way until the jar is filled up to within one inch of the top. i 

Be very sure that there are no air spaces left in the cans. Then \ 

fill each can overflowing full with melted suet, and seal air ! 

tight, using new rubbers and observing all the usual canning \ 

precautions. Set the jars away in a permanent storage place, j 

which should be cool, dark and dry, and do not move the cans i 
after once setting away. The melted suet on top will harden, 
and moving the cans after the layer of suet has hardened is 
apt to break it. Sausages should be pricked and boiled in 

water until tender, and packed in jars the same as meat, with | 

a layer of melted lard or suet on top. Everything wants to j 

be boiling hot when canned, sealed air tight, and set away i 

while hot. Great care must be taken to use only perfect, air- | 

tight cans. This recipe for canning meat has been used in our ; 

family successfully for many years. — [Mrs. M. R., N. Y. ' 

Smoking Meat 1 

I 

The smokehouse should be large enough and have enough i 

ventilation to prevent the meat becoming overheated. It is ■ 

best to have the fire outside, with a length of stovepipe to ; 

I 



ABOUT SMOKING MEAT 291 



conduct the smoke into the house. Hard wood, such as maple 
or green hickory, smothered with sawdust of the same, are 
the best for smoking meat, and corncobs the next best. Wood 
with resin, as spruce or pine, gives a bad flavor to the meat. 
There is a low, prickly, evergreen shrub, bearing green ber- 
ries, that grows in some localities, and where this can be had 
it is nicer than anything else, giving the meat a delicious 
flavor. Meat to be smoked should be well washed, or scrubbed 
with a hand brush in tepid water, to prevent a crust of 
salt forming on the outside, or if very salt, soaked over night. 
It should hang and dry out a day before being put into the 
smokehouse, and then hung so no two pieces touch each 
other. The fire should be slow at first, to heat up the meat 
gradually, and meat should never be frozen when put in the 
smokehouse. In cold weather it is best to keep the fire going 
steadily until finished, or the meat will not smoke evenly, 
owing to the inside being too cold for the smoke to penetrate, 
after cooling. Thirty-six hours will smoke meat nicely, if 
the fire is kept going steadily, or in warm weather a fire built 
every other day for two weeks cures it nicely, keeping the 
ventilator screened and the house dark, to exclude flies. — 
[F & H. 

Keeping Smoked Meat 

If the meat can be kept away from flies, it will keep nicely 
in a cool, dry cellar, but if one fly can get at it, it must be 
otherwise protected. A good and easy way is to wrap in paper 
and then in muslin sacks, and bury in a grain bin, by this 
method keeping a uniform temperature and excluding insects. 
If this cannot be done, it will be absolutely safe if wrapped in 
paper and put in muslin sacks, and the sacks completely 
coated with either ordinary lime whitewash or "yellow wash," 
and hung up so they do not touch. The directions for "yel- 
low wash" are: 3 lbs barites, 4 lbs flour, Vs lb chrome yel- 
low, 1-6 lb glue. Make the day before using. Heat l^^ gals 
water and add the flour, mixed to a smooth paste. Dissolve 
the chrome in 1 qt water and add it. Boil, stirring con^ 
stantly, and adding barites slowly. Apply cold with a brush, 
and stir often while using. — [F & H. 

Smoking In a Box 

Take a large, light box, place hooks inside the lop to hang" 
the meat on, and have a hole made on the side to fit a stove- 
pipe. Then take an old discarded heater and fit the pipe 
to the box, with the stove outside the box. Have a lid or 
door on one side of the box, so you can look to the meat. 
Start a fire with a few dry cobs, fill partly with straw, and 



292 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



then with boughs of cedar. If kept up all day, the meat will 
he done by night. The meat should have been in brine for 
2 or 3 weeks, then hung up to dry a little, before smoking. 
When smoked, let hang in box until ready to put down. Wrap 
the pieces in cloths, put in a barrel, and cover with oats. 

A Barrel Smoker 

Screw 3 or 4 hooks in the inside of the bottom of a good 
clean, close and large barrel, and turn it over an iron vessel 
in which a few live coals have been placed, with corn cobs 
and hickory chips piled on top, to make a steady smoke. 
Hang. the hams, shoulders or pieces on the hooks, but be care- 
ful not to crowd in too many, or the smoke cannot reach all 
parts. The smoking should be done slowly, evenly and 
steadily. A little ventilation is needed, or the fire will go 
out, but not enough to allow too much smoke to escape. — 
[A. G., Mass. 

Smoked Barrel for Bacon and Hams 

Put a few live coals in an iron kettle, cover with clean 
corn cobs, turn a clean barrel over this kettle, and smoke 2 
hours at a time for 2 days. If smoked too long at a time, 
it would shrink the barrel. When thoroughly smoked, put a 
brine in the barrel made of 10 lbs salt, 8 ozs saltpeter and 
2^ qts molasses, for every 100 lbs meat. Add water enough 
to cover the meat. Pack the meat in this brine and weight 
down. The smoked barrel will impart the smoked flavor to 
the meat. — [Miss G. A. P., N. H. 

Treating Hams After Smoking 

Have a boiler full of boiling water, dip the hams in, and 
let them remain 2 or 3 minutes, then remove, and cover 
them with a thick paste made of flour, water and cayenne 
pepper. The paste should be red with the pepper. Hang 
the covered hams in the sun until the paste covering is dry. 
Then put in stout paper sacks, tie closely, and hang in a dark 
and cool place. — [Mrs. J. S. H., 111. 

To Keep Meat Without Smoking 

After the animal heat has gone out of the meat, pack the 
pieces away in dry salt 4 weeks, after which dip each piece 
in a very strong solution of boiling hot salt water, dry off 
and rub thoroughly with borax and black pepper. — [Mrs. M. 
G. P.. I. T. 



SUGAR AND SALT CURED PORK 293 

To Diy Sugar Cure Meat 

For 400 lbs meat allow 10 lbs salt, l^^ lbs each black 
pepper and brown sugar, and 4 ozs saltpeter. Mix well 
together and rub each piece of meat well with this mixture, 
using the hands, about 5 or 10 minutes. Do not pile up the 
pieces of meat, but lay them out on a board or table, skin 
side down, in a cool place, but not cold enough to freeze. 
Let them stay there 4 to 6 weeks, after which they will be 
ready to smoke. After smoking wrap them in. clean, sweet 
hay then put them in muslin sacks, and hang in a cool, dark 
place. — [Mrs. A. W., Mo. 

Dry Cured Pork 

For each 100 lbs pork use 5 lbs salt, 2 lbs sugar and 2 ozs 
saltpeter. Mix well and divide into three parts. Rub the 
meat thoroughly with a third of the mixture at intervals of 
3 days, packing very closely in the barrel, and reversing 
the order of the pieces at each rubbing. If there is a good 
deal of meat, it is easier to have two barrels, putting the meat 
into one, as it is taken from the other, and pouring over the 
little liquid, if any forms. After the last rhbbing let it lie for 
10 days in the barrel, when it will be cured and ready for 
smoking. While curing, the meat must be kept in a cool and 
moist place, and unless it can be, it is best to use the brine 
method. — [F & H. 

Salt Cured Pork 

Heat salt in a baking pan in the oven, until it is thoroughly 
hot, then rub it in the fleshy side of the meat with a large 
flat spoon, as it will be too hot to apply with the hand. Rub 
all on that will stick to the meat — for large hams two applica- 
tions will be necessary. This does not harden the lean meat, 
as brine does. Be sure to keep the salt hot. I have cured 
meat in this way in hot weather, and never lost any — the 
salt strikes in so quickly that it cannot spoil. — [Farmer's 
Wife, Col. 

The Barrel for Pickliujg or Curing 

It is most important that the barrel for pickling meat 
should be absolutely clean. First scald and scrape the barrel 
thoroughly, then set into the barrel a vessel containing a small 
lump of quicklime, pour a pail of boiling hot water over the 
lime, cover the barrel, and let the fumes of the slacking lime 
sweeten it. After this wash the barrel again, then put in a 
generous armful of new sweet hay, pour over plenty boiling 



294 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



water, cover closely, and leave until cold. After this, thor- 
oughly rinse the barrel again with fresh water, and if any 
had odor remains, the case is hopeless and a new barrel an 
unavoidable necessity. — [Mrs. E. L. G., N. Y. 

To Cure Hams 

For 100 lbs meat allow 7 lbs salt, 2^4 lbs brown sugar, 2 
ozs saltpeter, and sufficient water to cover the meat, when 
closely packed in a barrel. Boil the salt, sugar, saltpeter and 
water, skim and then add 1 oz cayenne pepper and 2 ozs 
each ground clove and black pepper. Cool, and when cold 
pour over the meat, weight down, cover, and set away in a 
cool place. — [Mrs. F. C. F., N. H. 

Preserving Meat Joints 

For medium sized joints allow 2 tablesp black pepper, 1 
tablesp red pepper, 3 tablesp brown sugar, and 1 pt salt. 
Mix thoroughly and apply dry to each joint all that can be 
made to adhere. Take a square of muslin large enough to 
enclose the joint and lay it on the table. Then lay on the 
cloth two or three thicknesses of paper and sprinkle some of 
the mixture on it. Lay the joint on and thoroughly rub the 
remainder of the mixture on, rubbing and stuflEing it well into 
the bone end. Wrap the paper closely around the meat, then 
fold the cloth around, sew fast, tie, and hang up in a cool 
place.— [S. K. S. 

Dried Beef 

The round makes the best dried beef. For every 20 lbs 
beef, use 1 pt salt, 1 teasp saltpeter, and ^ lb sugar. Mix 
wrell together, divide into three parts, and rub well into the 
meat for three successive days. Keep the beef in a jar and 
turn it over frequently in the liquid, which will fprm of itself. 
After it has soaked in this about a week, hang it up to dry, 
and after that smoke, if liked. When dry, sprinkle with pep- 
per, tie up in paper bags, and hang up in a cool, dry place. — 
[Mrs. J. L. R., O. 

Corned Beef 

Use only the poorer parts for corning, such as brisket, 
flanks, crossribs, and plate, and cut into pieces 6 inches square. 
Fifty lbs meat will require 50 lbs salt. Sprinkle a layer of 
salt in the keg or barrel, put in a layer of meat, packing very 
closely, then a layer of salt, then more meat and salt, until 
all is used, leaving just enough salt for a good layer over the 



BEEF PICKLE AND BRINE 295 

top. Let stand over night, then dissolve 1 oz baking soda, 
2 lbs sugar, 2 ozs saltpeter in 2 gals tepid water, and after 
it is cold pour it over the meat. Two gallons should cover 
the 5 lbs meat, if packed right. If not, use the same pro- 
portions in making more. Weight with a board and stone, 
and let stand from 30 to 40 days before using. If kept over 
in hot weather, watch the brine, and if it gets "ropy," pour 
it off, wash the meat, and cover with a new brine. — [P & H. 

Beef Pickle I 

To 1 V2 lbs salt, add Vz lb sugar, 1 teasp soda, V2 teasp salt- 
peter and 1 gal water. This pickle can also be used for sau- 
sage. Be sure to weight down the meat or sausage, so as to 
keep well under the pickle. — [Mrs. C, No address. 

Beef Pickle II 

For 100 lbs beef, use V2 pk salt, ^ lb each saltpeter and 
soda, and 1 qt molasses, or 2 lbs brown sugar. Dissolve the 
saltpeter, soda and salt in a little warm water. The meat 
will be ready to use in 10 days. For spiced beef, add mace, 
cloves and allspice to the above pickle. — [Mrs. C, No address. 

Brine for Pork 

For 100 lbs pork allow 10 lbs salt, 3 lbs brown sugar, 2 ozs 
saltpeter, 1 oz cayenne pepper, and iVz or 5 gals water. Let 
boil 5 minutes, skim well, let get perfectly cold, and then pour 
over meat packed in large jars or barrels. Put in a weight 
to keep the meat under the brine, cover the jar and set away 
in a cool place. Meat kept in this way is never rancid and 
flies do not get at it. In the spring draw off the brine, boil it 
again, skim well, let get cold, and pour over the meat again. 
— [Mrs. P. O. B., Mont. 

Sweet Pickle for Pork 

For 100 lbs of side meat or hams allow 8 lbs clean, coarse 
salt, 2 lbs brown sugar, or 1 qt molasses, 3 ozs soda, 2 ozs salt- 
peter and sufficient water to dissolve these ingredients. Put 
over the fire and just before it boils, skim well, let it boil up 
once, skim again, and when perfectly cold pour it over the 
meat, packed in a jar or barrel. "Weight down so that the 
meat will always be under the brine, cover, and set in a cool 
place. After 5 or 6 weeks lift the sides and hams out of this 
brine, let drain and smoke well with corn cob, hickory or 
maple chips. We have used this recipe for years, and I am 
sure that anyone who will try it will be very well pleased 
with it. — [Mrs. M. J. S., N. H- 



296 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Pickle for Pork Sausage ! 

I 

( 

For every gal sausage in cases allow 1 cup salt and 1 cup ; 
brown sugar, thoroughly mixed. Place layers of sausage in j 
jars and sprinkle the mixture between each layer. Put a , 
stone on top, and if a brine does not form in 3 daj^s, make a ; 
little cold brine and pour it over. — [Mrs. M. J. L., Mich. \ 



Souse I 

Use the head of a hog and any other small parts of the • 

animal that are not too fat. Clean the head thoroughly and i 

do not spare yourself any pains during this process, to make , 

sure that everything is as clean as you can possibly make it. ! 

Soak in salt water for several hours, then scrape and clean ; 

again, and then soak once more in salt water for several ; 

hours, after which put in a kettle, cover with cold water, add ' 

salt, and boil slowly until the meat will separate from the i 

bones, and all the gristle is perfectly soft. Next remove from ; 

the fire, drain, remove all the bones, and hard gristle from ■ 

the meat and from the liquor. Put a layer of meat and fat, 1 

distributed evenly, in a stone jar, sprinkle well with salt and i 

pepper, and then pour over a generous allowance of hot, boiled | 

cider vinegar. Then put in another layer of meat, seasoning, ! 
and boiled cider vinegar, and so on until the meat is all used, 

or the jar is full to within 3 or 4 inches of the top, topping j 

off with salt, pepper and vinegar. Be careful to pack the j 

meat firmly and closely together, and to have it covered with j 

the vinegar. Boil down liquor in which the meat was cooked ; 

until there is only a little of it left, being careful not to let ; 

it burn. Season well with salt and pepper (it should be con- \ 

siderably more salt than palatable), and when the meat in , 

the jar is thoroughly cold, pour this hot, boiled-dowm liquor i 

over the meat, and when all has become cold, cover the jar \ 

well and store it in a cold place. When wanted for use, j 

scrape away a little of the jelly at one side of the jar, cut out ■ 

slices of the souse, and return the displaced jelly, spreading j 

it over smoothly. The sliced souse can be fried in hot butter, i 

but first drain off the liquid by allowing the souse to stand \ 

in the pan on the back of the stove a while. This will extract j 

the vinegar, and after frying brown in butter, the souse will \ 

be deliciously crisp. Serve with hot, baked potatoes. — [Mrs. ; 

N. P., N. H. j 

Pickled Pig's Feet ] 

Soak the feet over night in cold water, remove the toes and 
scrape clean, boil until very tender, and salt before they are 
done. Pack in a stone jar or keg and cover with hot, spiced 
vinegar, using whole cloves, allspice and pepper. Nice eaten 



PICKLED TRIPE AND TONGUE 297 

just so, or heated up in boiling water, or split, rolled in flour, 
and fried a nice brown on both sides in hot fat. Will keep 
indefinitely. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Pickled Tongue I 

Use either beef or pork tongues. Scald, trim, scrape and 
boil until tender, in salted water. When cold, cut in %-inch 
slices, and cover with cold vinegar. Boiled pigs feet are also 
very nice when pickled in vinegar. — [Mrs. C; B. B., Kan. 

Pickled Tongue II 

For the brine allow 1 gal water, 3 lbs salt, 4 ozs sugar, 
and 2 ozs saltpeter. Boil and cool, then put in the trimmed 
and cleaned tongues, and weight to keep them under brine. 
Will keep any length of time. When wanted to use, soak 
over night in cold water, boil until tender, skim, remove skin, 
slice, and serve with mustard. Or, if liked pickled, slice 
and cover with spiced vinegar. Will keep after being pickled. 
— [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Pickled Tripe and Beef Tongue 

Clean the tripe thoroughly, cut in pieces, and sprinkle 
lightly with unslacked lime. Roll up each piece separately, 
with the furrowed side inside, place the rolls in a tub and 
pour over enough cold water to cover. Let stand about 10 or 
15 minutes, then lift out the pieces, lay them on a board, 
scrape them well and rinse them clean in cold water, after 
which put them in a tub and cover with a weak brine, allow- 
ing them to remain there about 12 hours. After removing 
from this brine, scald theni with boiling water, scrape them 
again lightly, and again wash in cold water, after which they 
will be ready for pickling. Make a hot spiced vinegar by 
adding 1 teasp each of allspice, cloves and cinnamon, to 1 qt 
vinegar, and V2 cup sugar. If liked very spicy, V4, teasp 
cayenne pepper or black pepper may be added. Beef tongue 
should be put in a brine or pickle, the same as that prepared 
for beef, and allowed to remain in there a week, after which 
drain, and either smoke or dry, or put in a prepared spiced 
vinegar, as directed above. — [Mrs. A. C. McP., O. 

To Keep Roast Pork in Lard 

Take pieces of the side meat or any other part without 
bones, salt and pepper to taste, place in a roasting pan in 
a hot oven, and roast till well done, but do not scorch. When 
well done pack the pieces in a stone jar and fill all the spaces 



298 PARxM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

between, and cover the top, with fresh melted lard. Tie heavy- 
paper and a cloth over the jar, and set away in a cool, dry 
place. This will keep until warm weather comes. Fresh 
sausage cakes can be kept in the same way. After seasoning 
with salt, pepper and a little sage, mould the sausage meat 
into little cakes about 1 inch thick, fry until well done, 
and pack in a stone jar with melted lard, the same as directed 
above for the roasted meat. — [Mrs. H. L. J., Wash. 

To Keep Beefsteak I 

Mix together equal parts of salt and sugar and half the 
amount of saltpeter. Place a layer of steak in a jar, sprinkle 
with this mixture, and so continue until the jar is full, then 
weight down with an inverted plate and heavy stone. This 
will form a brine of its own, and the meat will keep sweet 
for a long time. Cover well and store in a cool, dark place. — 
[M. D., O. 

To Keep Beefsteak II 

Fry beefsteak as for the table, only be sure it is not the 
least bit rare, then pack it closely in jars and cover well with 
melted lard. Store in a cool place. — [Mrs. E. S., 111. 

Smoked Pig Paunch 

Thoroughly clean a pig paunch or stomach, and boil until 
well done. Take as much lean pork as it will require to fill 
the stomach, chop fine, and cook until partly done, then mix 
with scant V2 teasp saltpeter, and season with salt, ground 
pepper and cloves, and any other preferred spices to taste. 
Pack into stomach securely, sew up, and then return to the 
liquor in which the stomach was boiled, and let boil slowly 
1 hour. Remove from fire and let remain in this liquid over 
night, then drain and smoke 6 days. Hang in a cool, dark, 
airy place. When wanted, cut in thin slices and serve with- 
out cooking. — [Mrs. G. L., N. Y. 

To Try Out Lard or Suet 

Only clear, fat pieces of meat should be salted dojvn in the 
pork barrel, and all the thin, streaky pieces of lean and fat 
should be put with the sausage meat. The soft fat should 
be cut in very small pieces and put in a separate kettle, with 
a little water, and set over the fire to try out. The leaf lard 
should be cut up fine and put in another kettle, with a little 
cold water, to try out. While the lard is trying out, stir it 
up often with a long handled spoon or skimmer, and be very 



MAKING HEAD CHEESE 299 



careful that it does not burn or scorch. Stirring it often will 
make the lard try out more evenly. When the little pieces 
of lard have shrunk to very small dark brown scraps, strain 
lard through a fine wire sieve into a perfectly dry and clean 
tin pail. For the sake of convenience and to save burning 
my fingers, I hang the sieve through a piece of board cut out 
to fit the sieve. The board should be long enough to fit across 
the top of the pail, and project several inches on either side. 
This little board will not only save your temper, but will 
catch all the scraps that may fall from the top of the strainer, 
and that would otherwise fall into the pail of lard. The 
brown scraps should be turned into a cheese cloth bag and 
while still warm, squeezed between wooden squeezers to extract 
any of the lard that is still in them. These squeezers can be 
made of two fiat pieces of board about 1% feet long and 5 
or 6 inches wide, joined together at one end with little pieces 
of leather, and the other end whittled for handle. The lard 
squeezed out this way should be put in a separate pail. When 
cold, cover the pails well and store in a cool, dry place. Suet 
is tried out the same way. After the suet is tried out, pour 
it into a pan of ice cold water, and when hard, wipe it dry, 
wrap in white paper, and then put in a linen or close cloth 
bag and hang in a cool, dry place. Excellent for pie crust. — 
[Mrs. N. P., N. H. 

Canned Suet 

Trim and chop suet fine, add salt to taste, and 1 cup molas- 
ses for every cup suet. Can in air-tight jars. This is fine to 
put in cakes or puddings and no other shortening will be 
needed.— [Mrs. K. St. J., N. Y. 

Calf's or Hog's Head Cheese 

Put a large kettle over the fire, almost filled with water, 
and let heat to boiling point. You will need a large kettle as 
the calf's head should be almost entirely under water. After 
the butchering, when the animal heat is well out of the head, 
lift it by one ear and hold it in the kettle of boiling water, 
nose down. It will scald in a few minutes, so that with a 
sharp knife you can easily scrape off the hair, leaving the 
head nice and white and clean. Wash thoroughly, then saw 
off the nose, just at the corners of the mouth, being careful 
not to saw through the tongue, or to saw on to the teeth. 
With a sharp, pointed knife, take the eyeballs out, first cutting 
the muscles around them, then cut off the ears and remove 
the ear drums, and then wash the head again thoroughly and 
rinse in cold water, after which put in a kettle or pail of 
cold water and let it soak over night. Fc this, head cheese 



300 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



I also use the heart, liver and lungs or "lights," as the latter 
are called, also the legs, as far as the knee. Carefully trim 
and clean the heart, liver and lungs, and let these soak in cold 
water over night. The legs should be scalded, scraped 
cleaned and washed, and also put to soak in cold water over 
night. Next morning rinse all in clean cold water, and then 
put over the fire in several kettles of cold water to cook, 
adding salt. Cook slowly until the meat drops from the 
hones, then drain, pick out all the bones, and chop or grind 
fine. The tongue should be removed whole, root end cut off 
and discarded, the rough skin or coating scraped off, and saved 
for a separate dainty, to be served cold, in slices. After chop- 
ping all the meat, add enough boiled-down liquid in which the 
meat was cooked, to make the meat very moist. The liquid 
will be jelly-like and will help to make the meat hold together, 
so that it can be easily sliced when cold. Add salt and pep- 
per and a little sage to taste, and while hot turn into molds 
and set away to cool and harden. Cover with melted lard and 
store in a cold place. Hog's head cheese is prepared in the 
same manner, discarding most of the fat. If there seems to 
be too much fat on the liquid left after cooking the head and 
legs, skim the fat off and use the liquid underneath. Nice 
sliced, rolled in flour, and fried brown on both sides. — [Mrs. 
E. C. W., Me. 

Hog's Head Pudding 

Cut the meat from hog's head, discard the skin, and also 
use the heart, tongue and part of the liver. Wash all 
thoroughly and scald the tongues to remove the coating. Cook 
until tender, then grind or chop fine and season with salt and 
pepper, after which return to the liquor in which the meat 
was cooked, and when it begins to boil, thicken with buck- 
wheat flour or cornmeal. Be sure to season just right, and 
have the pudding stiff enough, so it can be cut in slices when 
cold, to fry, like mush. — [Miss A. E. H., Pa. 

Potted Beef, Ham, Tongue or liiver 

Boil either tongue or liver in salted water until very tender 
and put through the meat grinder. Boil down the liquid 
until there is just enough to moisten the meat nicely, being 
careful it is not too salty. Mix well with the meat, heat, put 
in little jars, and pour melted suet, lard or butter over the 
top, when cold. Potted ham can be made in the same way. — 
[Farmer's Wife, Col. 

To 1 lb boiled lean ham add V2 lb ham fat, or if preferred, 
butter, a little cayenne pepper and white pepper, mix all 
together, pound until smooth, press firmly into small jars. 



ABOUT SAUSAGE MAKING 301 



cover with melted butter or lard, seal, and store in a cool 
place. — [I. C, Va. 

Boil beef until it is tender and separate from the bones. 
Then mince the meat fine, tL:eason to taste, and pack down 
solidly in small close jars, topping off Yvith melted suet. Cover 
and store in a cool place. — [Mrs. E. R. W., Va. 

Sausage Casings 

Casings can be made from the intestines of beef, hogs, or 
sheep, the sheep casings being used for small sausage, like 
wiener-wurst, and hog casings for link sausages, and beef 
for bologna sausage, ham sausage, and blood sausage. 
Empty as soon as possible, turn inside out and scrape and 
clean first the in and then the outside. The cleaning is easy 
where one has running water. Soak 24 hours in lime water 
or lye water, turn, scrape and rinse again, then salt down and 
use when needed. When one cannot clean the casings, good 
substitutes can be made by stitching up tubes of new 
unbleached muslin, 1 % or 2 feet long, and 2 or 3 inches in 
diameter, when filled. When ready to hang away, rub the 
outside well with melted lard, to exclude all air, and sprinkle 
with pepper. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 

Uses for Bladders 

Wash, scrape and clean thoroughly, soak in salt water, 
rinse, and then inflate and tie them. When making preserves, 
cut off pieces large enough to cover the mouths of the jars, 
pour boiling water over the bladder pieces, then stretch them 
tightly over the jars and tie securely. These are equal to self- 
sealing, air-tight cans. Bladders are also useful to keep sau- 
sage meat. Stuff full of the sausage meat, tie securely and 
smoke. — [B. M. R., Va. 

Filling Sausage 

Sausage meat should be finely ground, as it keeps and holds 
together better. Beef alone, or pork alone can be used, but 
better two-thirds fat and lean pork, and one-third beef. Vary 
the seasoning by using pepper, onions, sage, nutmeg or cloves 
■ — the latter two are not very common. For filling the skins 
a piece of bone 2 or 3 inches long is most serviceable, but a 
piece of tin, shaped into a funnel, smallest end a trifle smaller 
than skins, will do very nicely. Insert this funnel into one 
end, hold in left hand, and proceed to fill, using the thumb to 
force the meat down. Prick the casings often with a hatpin, 
to let out any air. To have a change make some with cooked 
barley and some with potato (raw), finely chopped or ground. 
Use the proportion of ^, of barley or potatoes. This is fine. — 
[Farmer's Wife, .Col. 



302 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Liver Sausage I 

Boil liver till done, chop, season with black and red pepper, 
sage and salt, and pack in caoinss or long narrow muslin 
bags, and hang up to dry. Smoke with sassafras chips. — 
[No Name. 

Liver Sausage II 

Boil the liver and heart until tender. Chop very fine, sea- 
son to taste with salt and pepper. Add some clean currants, 
if liked, mix well, and fill into casings. Should be fried brown 
and served hot. — [Mrs. G. L., N. Y. 

Liver Sausage III 

Boil a pig's liver 10 minutes, then grind or chop fine and 
add twice as much cooked lean pork, and ^ lb fresh bacon, 
also ground or chopped. Season to taste with salt and ground 
pepper, cloves and nutmeg. Fill into casings, leaving about 
2 inches space in each sausage unfilled, as the liver swells. 
Boil the sausages % hour in salted water, then put them in 
cold water 10 minutes, after which they may be smoked or 
hung in a cool place to dry. — [Mrs. J. P. D., Neb. 

Kidney, Heart and Liver Sausage 

Split the kidneys and soak them in strong salt water, 
changing the water several times, then wash thoroughly and 
put them in a large kettle with the heart and liver, bits of 
pork rind, and scraps of lean pork. Cover with water and 
boil until tender. The liver must be lifted out after boiling 
10 or 15 minutes, as it does not require such long boiling 
as the rest. When the meat is all tender run through a sau- 
sage grinder, season with salt, pepper and a little thyme, pack 
into crocks, and set the crocks on the back of the range until 
they are hot. This helps to pack the meat more solidly. 
Cover with melted lard and set away in a cool place. — [Mrs. 
E. S., 111. 

Mixed Sausage 

This can be made of almost any proportion of beef and 
pork one has when both are killed at once, but is nice made 
in the proportions of 2 lbs lean pork, 1 lb lean beef, and 1 lb 
fat pork. This should be ground and seasoned the same as 
pork sausage, and kept in the same way, in casings, or jars 
with lard run over. It is better to use several small jars than 
one large one. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 



FOUR SAUSAGE RECIPES 303 



Bologna Sausage I 

Chop very fine 6 lbs lean beef, 1 lb salt pork, 3 lbs lean 
fresh pork and 1 lb beef suet. Mix well, then add 1 oz ground 
white pepper, 1 teasp ground mace, 3 ozs salt, M: teasp cay- 
enne pepper, and 1 large onion, chopped very fine. Mix well 
then fill into casings, or muslin bags. Make a strong brine 
that will float an egs, Put the sausage in this, and let remain 2 
weeks, turning and skimming every day. At the end of the 
first week, throw away old brine, and put the sausage in a 
new brine for the second week, then take out, drain and smoke 
for a week. After smoking, rub over the outside thoroughly 
with melted lard, and if you wish to keep the sausage for any 
length of time, sprinkle outside liberally with pepper, after 
rubbing with lard. Hang in a cool, dry and dark place. — 
[Mrs. F. E- A., Wash. 

Bologna Sausage II 

Chop or grind very fine 5 lbs beef, add 3 lbs sugar, 8 ozs 
pepper, 2i^ ozs saltpeter and 2^/^ pts salt. Mix the dry 
ingredients thoroughly, then mix thoroughly with the meat and 
fill into casings or thin muslin bags about 4 inches wide and 
12 inches long. Do not put these sausages into brine, but 
smoke them until thoroughly dry. — [Mrs. C, no address. 

Bologna Sausage III 

Use trimmings of fat and lean portions of pork, taking 
care to have twice as much lean as fat. After trimming and 
cutting, weigh the pork and add ^4 its weight of lean beef. 
Chop or grind fine and then season with 2i/^ lbs salt and 10 
ozs ground pepper for each 100 lbs ground meat. A little sage 
or thyme may also/ be added, if liked. Mix thoroughly and 
let stand in a cool place about 24 hours, after which fill into 
casings and fry down in hot lard. Put into crocks and cover 
with hot lard, and store in a cool place. — [Mrs. E. S., 111. 

Bologna Sausage IV 

Add 1 lb fat pork or fat bacon to each 10 lbs lean beef, 
and grind fine. Season with 1 oz black pepper, l^ oz fine 
salt, and a little ground coriander seed to each 6 lbs meat. 
Stuff in beef casings, making 1 foot long for the large cas- 
ings, or 15 inches for the small ones, tying the small ones 
together and letting the large ones hang straight. Smoke 
12 hours, then boll until they float on the water. Lay on 
clean hay in the sun until dry, and then hang away in a cool 
place. — [Farmer's Wife, Col. 



304 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



To Prepare Casings for Sausage 

Select the best of the beef casings, empty and wash them 
thoroughly, then throw them into a strong brine and let them 
soak several hours, after which rinse them thoroughly in 
fresh water, turn them, lay them on a smooth board and 
scrape them clean with the back of a knife. Rinse and soak 
in salt water again, then give them another scraping and 
wash again, and do not rest satisfied until you are positive 
they are perfectly clean. After they have been thus treated, 
put them in salt water, changing water frequently, until you 
are ready to use the casings. I think that sausages packed 
into these casings with a sausage stuffer are much better than 
sausages packed in muslin bags. — [E. S., 111. 



Scrapple I 

Cook until tender, hogs' livers, hearts, and scraps of lean 
meat. Salt to taste, and when done, remove the meat, boil 
the liquid a little longer, and then thicken with cornmeal 
until it is a thin mush. Let this cook well, and then add the 
meat, minced fine, and salt, pepper and sage to taste. Pour 
into pans to cool, and when wanted, slice and fry until brown 
on both sides. — [Mrs. P. L., Iowa. 

Scrapple II 

Clean and cut up one hog's head and remove all skin and 
larger bones. Let soak in salt water over night, and next 
morning wash again and put over the fire in cold water enough 
to cover. Cook slowly until the bones separate from the meat, 
then drain, pick out all the bones and hard gristle, and chop 
or grind the meat fine. Strain the liquor and return it with 
the ground meat to the kettle, season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and when it begins to boil, stir in, slowly, enough 
cornmeal to thicken, adding some white flour to make it 
hold together. Stir constantly until done, then spread out in 
pans, and when cold cut in slices and fry brown on both sides. 
By running melted lard over it, it can be kept a long while. 
— [Mrs. F. G. F.. O. 

Mince Meat, Canned 

I always make mince meat during the butchering season. 
To 8 lbs meat, (either pork or beef, or both mixed) boiled and 
chopped fine, add 6 lbs cleaned currants, 6 lbs seedless raisins^ 
4 lbs suet, 2 lbs citron, 20 lbs raw apples, all chopped fine, 
12 lbs sugar, 2 gals boiled cider, 12 tablesp cinnamon, 8 



PIG AND CALF'S FOOT JELLY 305 



tablesp mace and 4 tablesp each of allspice, salt and grated 
nutmeg. Put the cider in a large kettle, let it come to a boil, 
and then put in the other ingredients, well mixed together 
and boil 1 hour, stirring frequently. Can while hot, in air- 
tight jars, with a layer of melted lard or suet on top. If all 
the usual canning precautions were observed, mince meat 
canned in this way will keep indefinitely. — [Mrs. M. M., Kan. 

Calf's Foot Broth and Jelly 

Clean and scald the feet, cut up, cover with water, and boil 
until the liquid is reduced to one-quarter. Season to taste, 
thicken with 1 beaten egg, and serve plain, or with a few 
homemade noodles boiled in it. For jelly, boil the liquid 
down to 3 pts salt, then strain and let get cool, after which 
remove the layer of fat, re-heat the jelly, and add 1 cup 
sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, the whites of 2 eggs, small pieces 
of stick cinnamon, and about Vz pt good wine, if liked, and 
intended as nourishment for an invalid, although the latter 
may be omitted. Strain through a cloth and set away to get 
solid. Serve cut in small cubes. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. 

Pig's Feet Jelly 

Clean and boil pig's feet till well done, without salt. Strain, 
and to 1 qt liquor add 1 pt sugar, and flavor to taste. Boil 
skim and pour in molds. Serve with cream. — [F & H. 

Pig's Feet Cheese 

Clean feet, boil till bones fall out, remove bones, add a few 
bay leaves, 2 slices lemon, 2 cups vinegar, a few cloves, and 
salt to taste. Cook until tender, then pour into a mold to 
cool. Serve in thin slices. — [F & H. 

To Cook an Ox Cheek 

Split the head in halves, remove tongue, brain and eyes and 
wash first in salt water and afterward in 2 or 3 fresh waters. 
When clean put into a saucepan of cold water, add salt, and 
let boil 4 hours. When it has been boiling about 2 hours add 
potatoes, onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, according to 
taste. Cooked in this way the liquor makes a nice soup, and 
the meat taken from the bone and served with a little of the 
soup for gravy, makes a tender and savory dish for the first 
day's dinner. The soup is better served next day. If there 
should be any small pieces of the meat left from the dinner, 
they may be cut up with 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, sprinkled 
with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put into a mold, and 
turned out for breakfast, luncheon or supper. — [F & H. 



506 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK ; 

Fried or Scrambled Brains 

Soak the brain in salt water over night, remove the thin ] 
skin, slice once, roll in flour, and fry brown on both sides in 

hot lard or butter. For scrambled brains, soak in salt water ! 

over night, after which the skin can be removed easily. Put ! 
about 1 tablesp butter in a skillet and when hot put in the 

brains, stirring constantly, until almost dry, then add 2 beaten. ! 

eggs, and stir constantly until firm, adding salt to taste. Serve | 

hot. — [Mrs. J. C. R., Ind. I 

Odds and Ends 

When a beef is bjitchered, take some of the choice boneless 
parts, salt them down thoroughly, and then hang up and 
smoke, the same as bacon. — [Mrs. D. H. H., Ida. 

Clean all the lumps of clotted blood out of the heart, boil 

till tender, add scraps of meat to make a rich gravy, and \ 

when tender stuff with a dressing made as for roast turkey. } 

Bake till brown and serve with gravy made of the liquor it j 

was boiled in. ! 

I 

Soak the blood out of the liver, boil till it crumbles, mix ; 

with eqaal quantity cornmeal mush, season with salt, sage j 

and pepper, and pack in a cloth till cold, when it can be ! 

moulded in cakes, rolled in meal, and fried like sausage. ' 

They are nice to eat cold for lunch. \ 

Brains and sweetbreads are nice dipped in egg, rolled in ) 

cracker crumbs and fried in hot lard. Glean the stomach, ; 

soak in salt water over night, boil until tender, cut in strips, ; 

and pickle in hot spiced vinegar. Some people are fond of i 

the tripe, and also the kidneys, stewed or deviled. j 

When dry curing meat, after rubbing the dry mixture well ; 

into the meat, over rind and all, take a sharp stick and crowd ] 

some of the curing mixture down the bone of the joints, as ' 

far as possible. This makes the curing process more thorough, ; 

as meat always begins to spoil first around the bones. — [Mrs. i 

E. S. D., Wash. ! 

I 

When the meat is ready to hang up, wash it in water as hot \ 

as you can bear your hands in, then carefully cover the flesh > 

sides with powdered borax, and you will not be troubled with I 

bugs, skippers or worms. — [N. L., Tenn, (Note — This method, ] 

while effective, is evidently not considered healthful by our ] 
government, since state and national pure food laws prohibit 
the sale of meat thus prepared. — Editor.) 




eulinafy and Medicinal Herbs 

OOD housewives can in no way better fur- 
ther their reputations as good cooks than in 
the judicious use of herbs, the use or omis- 
sion of which makes all the difference 
between highly palatable and savory 
dishes, and tasteless and insipid ones. Food 
pleasing to the taste is more readily digested, 
and more perfectly assimilated, so that, in reality, more nour- 
ishment is derived from it than from food laci^ing in fine fla- 
vor, which does not stimulate the flow of saliva and the 
gastric juice, so essential to perfect digestion. Hence we may 
well say that the culinary herbs promote good health, as 
well as contribute to the pleasure of eating, while a number 
of other varieties are held in high repute as domestic med- 
icines in cases of slight ailments when home doctoring is 
sufficient. As the pot herbs are in daily demand for flavor- 
ing soups, gravies, stews, meat-sauces and dressings, and the 
medicinal herbs may at any time be called upon to avert a 
physician's visit, the provident will never allow winter to 
find them without a goodly supply of all the varieties, dried. 

A Good Variety 

The seasoning herbs in most constant use are summer 
savory, thyme, sage, sweet marjoram and parsley, while 
coriander, caraway, sweet basil, spearmint, tarragon, dill, and 
a number of others are grown for special uses. The medicinal 
herbs most often employed are catnip, peppermint, sage, saf- 
fron, horehound and hops. With the exception of peppermint, 
tarragon and hop seed, and the roots of sage, the seed of 
all the herbs may be had at a uniform price of 5 cents per 
packet, and as a majority of the varieties are perennial, it 
will readily be seen how slight is the expense of maintaining 
an herb bed. And even this may be reduced, if the family 
is very small, by buying a 10-cent package of all the varie- 
ties, mixed. The ground space required is very small. 

307 



308 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



General Cultural Directions 

With a few exceptions, to be specially noted, the culture j 
of all is the same. Few require a rich soil, and the majority . 
are stronger and better flavored if grown on decidedly poor \ 
soil. All will thrive on a sandy soil. As the seeds are | 
small, the soil should be made very fine, and be firmly i 
pressed over the seed. The young plants, when started, ' 
should be given thorough and frequent cultivation, as, being ; 
ratber small and slow growing, they are easily choked out by ; 
weeds, until well started. The seed may be sown in the 
permanent bed as early in the spring as the ground can be [ 
worked, or may be sown in the house early in April, and the 
young plants transplanted in June. When sown outdoors, the j 
plants should be thinned to give plenty of room in the row ! 
when well started, and the rows be from 12 to 18 inches apart, j 

Curing 

! 
All the varieties cultivated for their leaves, stems or bios- j 
soms should be cut when in flower, wilted in the sun, then | 
quickly and thoroughly dried in the shade, in a current of 
air or a very cool oven, protecting carefully from dust and ' 
flies. The few varieties cultivated for the seeds must be ; 
allowed to mature and the seeds be gathered before they \ 
shatter off. ^^ 

■i 
Proportions ! 

i 
The most convenient way of preparing what are termed i 
"pot-herbs," viz: summer savory, sage, thyme, bay leaves and . 
sweet marjoram, is to strip off the dried leaves and blossoms, ; 
cut or break them and the stems into tiny bits, and mix i 
thoroughly, using equal quantities of each herb. Keep in ! 
a closely covered can or jar, and allow 1 teasp of the mixture 
to each qt of material to be seasoned. By the term "a • 
bouquet of herbs," is meant two leaves of each of the above 
varieties, wrapped with a sprig of parsley and tied for ease j 
in removal. The broken mixed herbs should be tied in a bit i 
of cheesecloth to make their removal from soups or gravies 
easy. 

Medicinal Herbs 

The medicinal herbs are most commonly employed in the 
form of herb teas. When long boiling is required to extract 
the medicinal properties, the tea is termed a decoction, but ,■ 
an infusion is sufficient to extract the strength from the j 
majority of the herbs. This is made by pouring boiling water > 
over the herb and standing the dish where it will keep ; 
hot, without boiling, for 10 minutes or longer. For a decoc- I 



CULINARY AND MEDICINAL HERBS 309 

tion of herbs of good strength, allow 1 oz of the dried herbs 
to each pt of water. Cover closely while boiling and admin- 
ister 1 to 2 tablesp as a dose to an adult. In making an 
infusion, which is generally meant by the term "tea," allow 
I oz of the dried herb to 1 qt of water, or for smaller quan- 
tities, 1 tablesp of the herb to I cup of water. In using 
green herbs, allowance must be made for the shrinkage in 
bulk, or the loss in weight, through drying, and a propor- 
tionately larger quantity of herbs to water be allowed. An 
infusion may be drank freely, and either a decoction or an 
infusion may be made more palatable by sweetening. 

Doses 

The dose for a child of twelve is usually one-half the 
adult dose; for a child of six, one-fourth the adult dose; for 
a child of one year, one-twelfth the adult dose; and at six 
months of age, from one-twentieth to one-thirtieth the adult 
dose, and proportionate amounts for intermediate ages. 

Anise 

An annual, culivated for its seeds, which are used in flavor- 
ing cordials, soft drinks, cakes and cookies, and also for 
relieving flatulent colic in infants, intestinal pain, and the 
griping caused by cathartics. The infusion (1 teasp seed to 
^4 pt water), may be given freely. The leaves are used as 
a garnish. 

Balm 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for its leaves, which are used 
green in making balm wine, and either green or dried in 
making balm tea, a refreshing drink in fevers, and useful also 
as a tonic, having a taste and fragrance resembling lemons. 
May be grown from seeds, roots, or cuttings of the young 
shoots. Best suited by a poor but friable soil. Cut* for drying 
when in flower. 

Sweet Basil 

An annual, cultivated for its leaves and the tops of the 
shoots, which are used in seasoning soups, stews and sauces, 
the flavor resembling that of cloves, for which it is an inex- 
pensive substitute. The young leaves are sometimes used in 
salads in small quantities. Best suited with mellow, fertile 
soil a.'^d warm exposure. Plant indoors in April and trans- 
plant when danger of frost is over. Cut for drying when 
in flower. 

Bay Leaves 

The leases of the bay tree, a species of laurel, extensively- 
used in seasoning, may be purchased at a nominal price where 
not native. 



310 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Borage 

A hardy annual, self-seeding. Used only in the green state. ', 

The flowers are aromatic, and are used in flavoring cool ] 
drinks and as a garnish. The leaves are used uncooked in 

cucumber salad, and are also cooked as spinach. The bruised 1 

leaves in water make a pleasant drink. ; 

Caraway 

A perennial that runs out in about four years. Cultivated i 

for the seeds which are used in cakes and confectionery. The i 

leaves are sometimes used in flavoring soups. Sown in the ; 

spring, it will not seed until the following year, but if sown j 
early in August it will give a fair crop of seed the next 

season. j 

Catnip j 

A hardy perennial, deservedly popular as a domestic remedy. 

May be sown in fall or early spring, and should be cut when : 

in flower. Leaves, stems and blossoms are used in making the | 

infusion, which may be drank freely. The hot infusion is a | 

valuable aid in inducing perspiration (which leads to sleep) j 

in fevers; useful also in the treatment of colds; gives relief in i 

nervous headache; allays flatulent colic in infants, and exerts , 
a quieting influence on their nerves. A poultice made from the 

leaves soothes painful swellings and gives relief as a hot ; 

fomentation in severe pain or inflammation. ; 

Coriander ' 

A hardy annual, cultivated for its seed, which is used in j 

disguising*the taste of medicine, in confectionery and in flavor- | 

ing bologna sausage. The leaves are useful as a garnish. ' 

Thrives best in dry soil and matures early. ; 

1 

Dandelion j 

A hardy, perennial that, where not abundant as a weed, ' 
may be cultivated. The leaves are much liked as spring 

greens, and are sometimes tied up and blanched for use in ; 
salads as endive is used, which it much resembles. The 

roots possess valuable medicinal properties, both as a diuretic ; 

and for their action on the liver. A decoction made by ■ 

boiling the bruised roots slowly until all the strength is ■ 

extracted is a valuable remedy for children (or adults) suf- j 

fering from loss of appetite and listlessness, arising from a ! 

torpid or disordered liver. Physicians recommend from y2 i 

to 1 pt of the decoction per day, to be taken for dropsical : 



DILL, HOPS AND HOREHOUND 311 

affections. The roots dried and roasted are sometimes 
employed as a coffee substitute, and have a beneficial effect on 
the system. The seed stalks should be plucked before they 
ripen, or the seed will be blown broadcast, and the resultant 
plants become a nuisance, almost impossible to eradicate. 

Dill 

An annual, requiring a rich, dry soil. Cultivated for its 
seeds and leaves, both of which are added to cucumbers in 
making dill pickles. The leaves are sometimes used like pars- 
ley in soups and sauces. An infusion of the seeds is useful 
in allaying flatulence and colic in infants. 

Sweet Fennel 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the leaves and seed. The 
leaves make a beautiful garnish, and are also used in salads. 
Boiled they enter into many fish sauces, and are used in flavor- 
ing soups. The stalks are sometimes blanched and eaten like 
celery. The seed is used in confectionery, cake and for flavor- 
ing soft drinks. It is also used medicinally, in an infusion 
(1 teasp to % pt water), for the relief of flatulent colic in 
infants and griping intestinal pains. 

Hops 

May be propagated from seed or roots, and thrives under 
general culture. Cultivated for the blossoms, which have 
many medicinal properties. An infusion of the blossoms gives 
relief in nervous headache, and is an excellent remedy for 
wakefulness, that may be employed when an opiate could 
not be. From 2 to 8 tablesp of the infusion may be given 
at intervals of i/^ hour until relief is obtained. A bag 
of the blossoms, sprinkled with alcohol or whiskey, and used 
as a pillow, relieves pain by dulling the sensibilities of the 
nerves, and is much to be preferred in home doctoring to 
the administering of opiates. A poultice of wet hops, applied 
hot in sacks, is a valuable fomentation in inflammation of 
the bowels, lungs, and similar affections. The infusion is used 
in making homemade yeast, and fermented summer drinks. 

Horehound 

A perennial, strongest when grown on light, poor soil. A 
decoction of stems, leaves and blossoms is employed largely 
in homemade cough syrups and lozenges. It is valuable also 
as a tonic, and in the treatment of pulmonary complaints^ 
Cut for curing when in bloom. 



312 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Lavender 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the delightful odor it 
imparts to clothes drawers and linen closets. Cut when in 
blossom and dry quickly. 

Sweet Marjoram 

A perennial in warm climates, but an annual in the north- 
ern states. A favorite pot herb, cultivated for the leaves and 
tender tops, which are equally good either green or dried, 
for seasoning purposes. The variety known as pot. marjoram 
differs from the sweet marjoram only in being a hardy peren- 
nial, rather less fragrant. It is used for the same purposes. 

Peppermint 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for its stems, leaves and blos- 
soms and cut for curing when in flower. The hot infusion 
may be drank freely, and acts as a powerful stimulant. It 
is unexcelled for relieving flatulent colic in infants, intestinal 
pain, or the griping caused by cathartics. It may be admin- 
istered freely in the treatment of nervous hysteria and spasms. 
The leaves and blossoms are used in flavoring cordials and 
cool drinks, and in disguising the taste of medicine. 

Spearmint 

This is a closely related perennial that mar be used medic- 
inally for the same purposes as peppermint, but is much in- 
ferior. It is in demand for making mint sauce (for lamb), 
and may be propagated from seed or roots. 

Rosemary 

A hardy perennial, cultivated for the leaves and tender tops. 
The leaves are sometimes used in seasoning, and an infusion 
of the tops only is efficacious in the treatment of nervous 
headache and chlorosis. The dried plant loses its strength 
rapidly with age. 

Rue 

A hardy perennial, that does best on poor soil. It must not 
be allowed to go to seed. An infusion of the leaves is a 
powerful tonic, stimulant and anti-spasmodic, useful in ner- 
vous complaints, but not to be recommended for use by the 
inexperienced, as serious results follow its too liberal use. 
•The leaves are so acrid as to blister the skin. 



SAFFRON, SAGE AND SORREL SIS 



Saffron 

A hardy annual, cultivated for its flowers, which are used 
fresh or dried in coloring soups, cakes, confectionery, icings, 
etc. Also used for dying cloth and Easter eggs. An infu- 
sion of the flowers is given to induce sweating. Also some-^ 
times used to whiten the skin of infants. 

Sage 

A hardy perennial, more extensively used in seasoning than 
any other herb. May be grown from seeds or from division 
of the roots, the best plants resulting f^om the latter method. 
Pick the leaves and tender shoots for curing just as the plants 
are coming into flower. Does best on a very rich soil, with 
frequent cultivation. Indispensable for flavoring dressings, 
sausage and for seasoning in general. Sage tea is an excel- 
lent domestic remedy for worms, and is best made with an 
equal quantity of senna leaves, the senna acting as a cathartic 
to expel the dead worms. Use 1 tablesp of each to 1 cup of 
water, and drink freely, until it acts as a cathartic. The hot 
infusion may be taken freely to induce perspiration. 

Sorrel 

Hardy perennial, used in the green state only. The leaves 
are sometimes cooked like spinach, and are occasionally used 
in soups and salads. The leaves, like rhubarb, contain much 
oxalic acid, beneficial to the system in spring. A pleasant 
drink is made by bruising the leaves and letting them stand 
in cold water, sweetening to taste; improved by burying the 
jug in cool earth for a day or more. Makes a cooling drink 
in fevers, and also acts as a diuretic and antiseptic in chronic 
urinary affections. A salve may be made by expressing the 
juice and evaporating it in the sun until of the proper con- 
sistency. Physicians esteem this highly in the treatment of 
cancer. 

Summer Savory 

A hardy annual, cultivated for its stems, leaves and flowers, 
which are extensively used for flavoring, particularly in soups 
and dressings. Cut for curing when in flower. Winter savory 
differs from summer savory only in being a hardy perennial. 
Is used the same. 

Thyme 

A perennial, cultivated for its leaves and tops, which are 
used extensively for flavoring soups, sauces and dressings. Cut 
for winter use when in flower. An infusion of the leaves is 
efficacious in allaying nervous headache. May be drank freely* 



314 FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 

Parsley 

A slowly germinating annual that requires a rich, mellow 
soil. Seed should be sown very early in spring or late the 
preceding fall. All the leaves should be cut off as often as 
they reach a hight of 3 inches, each new growth being brighter 
and better curled than its predecessor. These cuttings may be 
dried for winter use, but the plants if taken up in fall will 
continue to grow indoors over winter. The green leaves are 
the most indispensable of the garnishes, and the leaves, green 
or dried, are a favorite seasoning herb in universal use. The 
finely minced leaves are much used in sauces for boiled fish 
or fowl (2 tablesp to 1 pt of sauce), as a seasoning in cro- 
quettes, many entrees, and the larger number of "made" 
dishes of fish, flesh or fowl. The dried leaves powder easily, 
and for ease in chopping the fresh leaves they should be 
dipped in boiling water and dried on a cloth. Clipping with 
the scissors is the most convenient and quickest way of minc- 
ing them. Nursing mothers esteem a poultice made of the 
fresh leaves, covering the breasts and renewed as often as 
they fade, very helpful in dispersing the milk when wean- 
ing their babies. It also has laxative properties if eaten 
freely. 

Wormwood 

nardy perennial that does best on dry and very poor soil. 
May be propagated by seeds, division of the roots or cuttings. 
Cultivated for the leaves, which may be used fresh or dried. 
The infusion is a valuable tonic and vermifuge, but has an 
intensely bitter taste. It should be planted in poultry yards 
for its beneficial effect upon the poultry. They will pick and 
eat the fresh leaves when in need of a tonic. — [Mrs. A. 
B., Col. 

Bene 

An annual, cultivated commercially for the oil of the 
seed. An infusion of the leaves is beneficial in the treatment 
of dysentery, and for this purpose the leaves are cut when 
-the plant is in fiower. 

Cumin 

An annual, cultivated for its seed, which is used for the 
same purposes as caraway seed and also for flavoring cheese. 

Oarragon 

A perennial usually propagated from roots. The leaves are 
used for flavoring vinegar. 




"ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 



Take Heed, Ye Cooks! 

Full many a question is solved by digestion; 

Bad morals are caused oftentimes by bad cooks, 
And many a riot results from poor diet; 

Conversion does lie in the leaves of cook books. 



The Greatest Woman. 



At a gathering of a large number of club women, the 
question was asked: *'Who may rightly be considered the 
greatest woman in history?" There were many answers, 
but the one which was awarded the prize was this : ''The 
wife of a man of moderate means, who does her own cook- 
ing, washing and ironing, brings up a family of girls and 
boys to be useful members of society, and finds time for 
her own intellectual and moral improvement, is the great^ 
est woman in all history." 



''Many waters cannot quench love" — but an incompetent 
cook can cripple it mighty quickly. 



I 
There never was an angfel who wouldn't take off her ! 



wings and cook for the man she loved. 




GABBLE. GABBLE. GABBLE. GABBLE! 



Index 



Page 

Sread, Bolls and Buns 11 

Baking 14 

Baking powder 17 

Barley bread 22 

Brown bread 22, 23 

Bran bread 23 

Bran rolls 27 

Buns, plain and sweet.... 28 
Bretzeln, sweet or salt. . 29 

Buttermilk rolls 27 

Currant bread 23 

Cornmeal bread 24 

Cinnamon rolls 27 

Entire wheat bread 20 

Flour, the 12 

French rolls 27 

Oraham bread 20, 21 

German bread 25 

Graham rolls 27 

Hominy bread 23 

Ingredients of 11 

Kneading 13 

Mush bread 23 

Oatmeal bread 21; 22 

Pumpkin bread 23 

Potato rolls 28 

Rye bread 21 

Rusks 28, 29 

Salt rising 18 

Salt rising bread 19 

Steaming bread 19 

Sweet bread 25 

Scotch bread 25 

Swedish bread 25 

Sticks or braids, bread. . 26 

Squash rolls 27 

Swieback 29 

Tea rolls 26 

White bread 17, 18 

Yeast 14, 15, 16 

Cakes, Filling's and Frosting-s 3 3 

Angel-food cake 36 

Apple cake, dried 37 

Baking directions 34, 35 

Brown cake 38 

Butterless cakes ..43, 44, 45 

Chocolate cake 39 

Coffee cakes 48, 51 

Devil's food 50 

Eggless cakes ..,.40, 41, 42 

Farmers' cake 36 

Fruit cakes ...39, 40, 45, 47 

Feather cake 49 

315 



Page 
Fillings and frostings 

52, 53, 54 

Graham cake 39, 41 

Gingerbread ...42, 43, 45, 46 

Jam cakes 38, 40 

Layer cakes 39, 50 

Marble cakes 49, 50 

Nut cakes 39, 43, 48 

Pound cakes 

37, 40, 44, 49, 50. 51 

Pork cake 42 

Sponge cakes ....44, 46. 47 

Spice cakes 44, 46, 50 

Wedding cake 36 

Cookies, Crackers and Small 

Cakes 55 

Brown cookies G6 

Butter cookies 58 

Chocolate cookies 55 

Cream cakes 61 

Cream puffs 62 

Cup cakes 62 

Crackers 63, 64 

Drops 61 

Eggless cookies 57, 58 

Graham cookies 55 

Ginger cookies .56 

Jumbles 50 

Lady fingers 62, 63 

Molasses cookies 56, 57 

Macaroons 59 

Nut cookies 5S 

Oatmeal cookies 59 

Oatmeal cakes 62 

Rocks 60 

Snaps 60 

Wafers 64, 65 

Pies and Shortcakes 66 

Apple pie 72, 72 

Banana pie 71 

Crusts 66, 67, 68 

Cranberry pie 70 

Cherry pie 7 ! 

Custard pie 72 

Cocoanut pie 73 

Cream pie 73 

Chocolate pie 73 

Carrot pie 75 

Cheese pie 76 

Cheese straws and patties 81 

Elderberry pie 70 



316 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Page 

Fried pies 76 

Fruit rolls 80, 81 

Lemon pies 69, 70 

Mince meat 68, 69 

Puff paste 67 

Pineapple pie 70 

Pumpkin pie 75 

Peach pie 77 

Rhubarb pie 71 

Rice pie 76 

Raspberry pie 77 

Squash pie 74 

Sweet potato pie 75 

Shortcakes 78, 79 

Sauces for shortcakes 80 

Tomato, pie 7 5 

Tarts 82 

Doug'hnuts, Griddlecakes and 

Fritters 85 

Apple fritters 93 

Bread pancakes 88 

Banana pancakes 90 

Buckwheat cakes 90 

Bread fritters 9 2 

Batters 94, 95 

Cornmeal pancakes 88 

Cornmeal griddlecakes . . 91 

Corn pone 92 

Corn fritters 92 

Doughnuts 85, 86, 87 

Fried cakes 87 

Oatmeal fritters 92 

Oyster fritters 93, 94 

Puffs 87, 88 

Potato pancakes 89 

Potato fritters 94 

Parsnip fritters 94 

Rye pancakes 89 

Rice or hominy griddle- 
cakes 91 

Salmon fritters 94 

Tomato pancakes 90 

Tomato fritters 94 

Wheat pancakes 89 

Biscuits, Muffins and Dump- 
lings 97 

Baking powder biscuits. . 97 

Bran biscuits 98 

Beaten (Maryland) bis- 
cuits 100 

Buns 101 

Buckwheat cakes ....105, 106 

Drop biscuits 97 

Dodgers 104 

Dumplings, bread ...106, 107 

Dumplings, meat 107 

Dumplings, fruit 108 

Egg biscuits 98 

Graham biscuits 98 



Page 

Gems 103, 104 

Ginger biscuits 99 

Johnny cake 105 

Light biscuits 99 

Mush biscuits 100' 

Muffins 101, 102, 103 

Popovers 105- 

Puffs 105 

Raised biscuits 100' 

Soda biscuits 97 

Scotch biscuits 99' 

Sweet biscuits 99- 

Squash biscuits 101 

Scones 105 

"Waffles 106 

Fudding-s, Custards and 

Sauces Ill 

Apple puddings and rolls 

111, 112 

Brown betty 112 

Banana pudding 114 

Blackberry pudding 116 

Bread pudding 121 

Biscuit pudding 122 

Cherry pudding 115 

Currant pudding 115 

Cranberry pudding 115 

Christmas pudding 115 

Cornstarch pudding 120 

Cottage puddings 122 

Chocolate pudding 122 

Cracker pudding 122 

Carrot pudding 123 

Corn pudding 124 

Custards 125 

Fig and date puddings . . 114 

Fruit puddings 117 

Graham pudding 119 

Indian (cornmeal) pud- 
dings 118, 119 

Lemon puddings 113 

Nut puddings 125 

Orange pudding 113 

Oatmeal pudding 120 

Peach pudding 113 

Prune puddings 114 

Plum puddings 117 

Potato puddings 122,123 

Pumpkin pudding 123 

Puff pudding 125 

Rhubarb puddings 115 

Rice puddings 119, 120 

Suet puddings 116 

Sago puddings 120 

Snow pudding 123 

Sauces 126, 127, 128 

Tapioca puddings 118 

Vegetable puddings 124 

Soups, Stews and Chowders 131 

Asparagus soup 135 



INDEX 



317 



Page 

Bean soups 133, 134 

Beef soup 136 

Beef stew 139 

Corn soup 134 

Cabbage soup 134 

Celery soup 135 

Carrot soup 135 

Chicken soup 137 

Croutons for soup 139 

Clam chowder (mock).. 141 

Corn chowder 141 

Egg chowder 141 

Fruit soup 138 

JLiver stew 139 

Mutton soup 136 

Milk soup 137, 138 

Noodles for soup ..138, 139 

Onion soup 134 

Oatmeal soup 138 

Potato soups 132,133 

Pea soup 133 

Peanut soup 138 

Pork stew 140 

Picnic stew 141 

Potato chowder 141 

Rutabaga soup 135 

Tomato soups 132 

Vegetable soups 131, 132 

Veal soup 136 

Tisli, Shell Fish and Crus- 
taceans 143 

Codfish ways 145, 146 

Crabs and lobsters 154 

Fish, to can 143 

Fish, to salt and smoke.. 144 
Fish, to skin and bone. . 144 
Fish, ways of cooking ... 144 
Fish, to freshen salted. . 145 
Fish, directions for bak- 
ing 148 

Fish roe 150 

Fish, pickled 150 

Fish chowder 150 

Herring 147 

Halibut 148 

Mackerel 147 

Oysters and clams 

151, 152, 153, 154 

Shad 148 

Salmon 149, 150 

Meat, Poultry and Gancie. . . 155 
Boiling and roasting di- 
rections 155 

Beef, boiled 155 

Beef, steamed 156 

Beef, corned 156 

Beef, pressed 156 

Beef, braised 156 

Beef, roast 157 

Beef, pot roast .#....157, 158 



Pa«e 

Beef, steak 158, 159 

Beef, dried 159 

Crusts for meat pie.. 164, 165 

Chicken pies 166 

Chicken 168, 169 

Duck 171 

Dressing, bread 173 

Dressing, oyster 173 

Goulash 159 

Guinea hen 170 

Goose 171 

Haslet 160 

Heart 160 

Ham pie 166 

Hash 166 

Ham 163, 164 

Indian curry 166 

Liver 159, 160 

Meat loaf 161 

Mutton 161 

Meat pies 165 

Opossum 173 

Pork 162, 163 

Poultry, to pick and clean 167 

Rabbit 171, 172 

Raccoon 172 

Sauces 174, 175, 176 

Tripe 160 

Tamales 170 

Turkey 170 

Veal 161, 162 

Venison 173 

Potatoes, Vegetables and 

Salads 177 

Asparagus 186 

Beets 182 

Beans 183, 184 

Beans, baked 184 

Banana salad 193 

Cucumbers, stuffed 184 

Corn 179, 180 

Carrots 181, 182 

Celery and celeriac 185 

Cabbage 187, 188 

Cauliflower 188 

Chard 190 

Cabbage salad 193 

Dandelion 190 

Eggplant 186 

Egg salad 193 

Fruit salad 193 

Fish salad 193 

Lettuce 193 

Meat salad 198 

Onions 189 

Okra 190, 191 

Potato ways 177, 178 

Potato, sweet 179 

Parsnips 183 

Peas 183 

Peppers, stuffed 187 



318 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Page 

Potato salad " 192 

Rutabaga 186 

Squash 185 

Salsify 186 

Sauerkraut 188 

Spinach 189 

Salad dressings 191, 192 

Tomatoes 180, 181 

. Turnips 183 

Tomato salad 193 

Vegetable salad 193 

Waldorf salad 193 

Beveragfes and Syrups 195 

Barley or rice water.... 203 

Beef tea 203 

Coffee 197 

Coffee, cereal 198 

Cocoa 199 

Chocolate 199 

Cider 201 

Cordials 200 

Egg nogg 197 

Fruit shrubs 200 

Flaxseed tea 203 

Grape juice 201 

Koumiss 196 

Lemonade and orangeade 199 

Milk 196 

Oyster tea 203 

Punches 200 

Syrups 201, 202 

Tea 197 

Toast water 202 

Water 196 

Zees, Ice Cream and Con- 
fections 205 

Butter scotch 210 

Cream (candy) 208 

Colorings for candy 208 

Caramels 210 

Cocoanut candy 210 

Freezing 205 

Ices 206 

Ice Creams 207 

Molasses candy 209 

Peppermint or gum drops 

208, 209 

Sherbet 206, 207 

Taffy 210 

Table EcLuipment and Eti- 

auette 211 

Dining room 211 

Dining room table 212 

Table manners 213 

Table decorations ...214, 215 

Canning" and Freservingf . ... 217 

Apples 220, 221 

Blackberries 227 



Blueberries 227 \ 

Beans 231 ' 

Beets 232- | 

Canning methods 217 | 

Canning hints 216 ■ 

Cherries 219, 220- ' 

Currants 221, 222 ; 

Citron melons 225 ' 

Canteloupe 22& 

Cucumbers 230, 231 ' 

Corn 232, 233 j 

Elderberries 22ft * 

Gooseberries 227 I 

Greens 234 ' 

Grapes 222, 223 \ 

HuclUeberries 226 j 

Jars for canning 218 i 

Jars, heating and filling. . 218 I 

Pineapple 221 I 

Plums 224r j 

Pears 223, 224 I 

Peaches 224, 225 

Peppers 230 I 

Pumpkin or squash 230 I 

Peas 231 j 

Quince 222 I 

Raspberries 22S i 

Rhubarb 229, 23'> : 

Salicylic acid 219 ; 

Strawberries 228, 229 ' 

Tomatoes 233, 234 i 

Watermelon 226 '• 

Jellies, Jams and Marma- i 

lades 235 ; 

Apple jelly 236,237 ; 

Apple jam 241 < 

Apricot jam 243 " 

Apple butter 245 ; 

Barberry jelly 238 i 

Blackberry jelly 239 | 

Blackberry jam 242 | 

Currant jelly 237 ; 

Cranberry jelly 238 ■ 

Cherry 239 : 

Cherry jam 242 i 

Currant jam 242 ; 

Cherry marmalale 244 ; 

Damson jam 243 ; 

Elderberry jelly 238 j 

Elderberry jam 241 : 

Fig paste 247 ■ 

Grape jelly 238 | 

Gooseberry jelly 239 j 

Gooseberry jam 243' j 

Jelly rules 235 '■- 

Jelly kettle and bags 236 , 

Jam and marmalade rules 240 j 

Jam and jelly, uncooked. . 241 j 

Muskmelon marmalade. . 244 ! 

Orange marmalade 244 ' 

i 



INDEX 



319^ 



Page 

Plum jelly 239 

Peach jam 243 

Peach butter 245 

Plum butter 246 

Pumpkin or squash butter 246 

Quince jelly 237 

Quince marmalade 244 

Quince honey 247 

Raspberry jelly 239 

Rhubarb jelly 240 

Raspberry jam 242 

Rhubarb jam 242 

Strawberry jelly 239 

Strawberry jam 242 

Tomato jelly 240 

Tomato jam 243 

Tomato butter 246 

"Watermelon marmalade. . 245 



Pickling" — Sour and Sweet.. 249 

Beans, to salt down 250 

Beans, pickled 254 

Beets, pickled 254 

Cucumbers, to salt down. 249 
Cucumber pickles, sour 

250, 251 

Cucumber pickles, sweet 252 

Cabbage, pickled 255 

Cauliflower, pickled 255 

Corn pickle 256 

Chow-chow 257 

Carrots, sweet pickled. . . . 259 

Dill pickles 251 

Fruit, pickled 258, 259 

India relish 257 

Mixed pickles 152 

Mustard pickle 256 

Olive oil pickles 253 

Onions, pickled 254 

Olix'es, pickled 257 

Peppers, pickled 256 

Sauerkraut 260, 261 

Tomatoes, to salt down. . 250 

Tomato pickle, green.... 253 

Tomato pickle, yellow . . 254 

Tomato pickles, sweet . . 259 

Catsups and Relishes 263 

Apple catsup 266 

Cucumber catsup 264 

Cherry catsup 266 

Currant catsup 266 

Chili sauce 267, 268 

Farmers' catsup 265 

Grape catsup 266 

Gooseberry catsup 267 

Miscellaneous sauces.. 268, 269 
Miscellaneous relishes 

269, 270 

Varieties 307 

Peach catsup . . ." 265 



Plum catsup 265 

Tomato catsup, ripe 263 

Tomato catsup, green . . 264 

Tomato catsup, cold 264 

Tomato catsup (canned) 265 

Walnut catsup 267 

Tireless Cookery — the Hay- 
box 271 

Construction of hay-box 

272, 272 

Cooking suggestions .... 278 

Fireless cookers 275, 276, 277 

Principle, the 271 

Recipes, fireless cookery 

279, 280, 281, 282 

Butchering- Time Recipes.. 283 

Beef, how to cut up.. 283, 284 

Beef, when killed 288 

Beef, dried 294 

Beef, corned 294 

Beef, pickled 295 

Brains 306 

Canning meat and poul- 
try 290 

Curing 293, 294 

Cheek 305 

Feet 296, 305 

Frozen meat, to pack. . . . 289 

Head cheese 299, 300 

Lard 298 

Mince meat 304 

Pork making 285- 

Pork, to cut up 286, 287 

Preparations 287, 288 

Pork, to pack in salt.... 289 

Paunch 298 

Smoking meat 290, 2991 

Smokers, barrel or box . . 292* 

Salt pickle 295- 

Sweet pickle 295- 

Souse 296; 

Suet 298 

Sausage casings ....301, 304 

Sausage filling 301 

Sausage, liver 302 

Sausage, kidney, heart . . 302 

Sausages 302, 303 

Scrapple 304 

Tongue 297 

Tripe 297 

Culinary and Medicinal 

Herhs 307 

Cultural directions 308 

Curing 308 

Doses 30» 

Herbs 309- 314 

Medicinal uses 308 

Proportions 308 



••320 



FARM AND HOME COOK BOOK 



Abbreviations and Measures 

Quart qt Two cups granulated sugar 

Pound lb equals 1 lb. 

Pint pt Two level tablesp butter equals 

Quart qt ^ °^- 

Gallon e-al Four level tablesp butter equals 

^ ^ Va cup. 

Teaspoon teasp ^ 

Tablespoon tablesp ^^taWesp^^^"" ^^''''^ ^""""^^^ ^ 

^^^^^^^^ ^^^ Four teasp (liquid) equals 1 

Hour hr tablesp. 

One cup (liquid or dry) equals Three tablesp (dry) equals Vi 

72 pt cup. 

Four cups flour equals 1 lb or po^r tablesp (liquid) equaVs % 

^ ^^- cup. 
Two cups butter equals 1 lb. 



LhMr'08 



tSSe 
TAMd&nOML 

eOOR- BOOK 

& 

HOUnSEKEEFERnS 

A^S^SI^STANT 




THE PHELPS 
PUBLISHING 
COMPANY 



^ 52 88 , 



^i 



m 






.^ 












- /\ '. 



3^ ^C^ *» 















.- .0^ v^^-'^^ -o.-'r^-v.^' v^^ 












tot* >A , ^ ♦!«»i5%i.'' ^ ii'* ♦its^t* ^ <-0 »• 




4* ♦' 



•n^n'? 



^7 o^""'^ -^^Z /°- -j 



5^^^^ °: 










'•VtT»* ^o'' V *•!?;.• .v,**^ %. *i7*f'* .0 













^o 






.'e^"" .*'°'^'»i. '■•''^^-' ^°-^ '>^^i i-""^*^. 



■fe 












.♦ ''^ 






,". *^0< 









