









\^ ^ 



BY Ch. Herman Sen:; 



Cornell University Library 
TX 740.S45 



Recherche entrees :a collection of the 




3 1924 001 709 041 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001709041 



Recherche . . . 

ENTREES . . 

A COLLECTION 

OF THE LATEST AND 

MOST POPULAR DISHES. 

BY 

C. HERMAN SENN. 

Attthor of 

" The New Century Cookery Book," " Practical Gastronomy," " French 

Menus," " RechercM Side Dishes," " RecherchS Lunch and Dinner 

Sv/eets," "Breakfast and Supper Dishes," "Ices and How to 

Make Them," "Eggs and Omelets," "A Book of Salads," 

"Chafing-dish and Casserole Cookery," etc. etc. 




London : 

The Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 

Westminster, S.W. 



CONTENTS. 






PAGE 


Entries, Introductory Chapter ... 


7 


Light Entries 


IS 


Some Vegetable Entrees and Fariinge Dishes 


.. 36 


A Selection of Fish Entries .,. 


.. 56 


Entries of Veal 


.. 69 


Entries of Beef 


.. 89 


Entrdes of Lamb and Mutton ... 


104 


Entrees of Poultry 


.. 119 


Entries of Game 


148 


Sauces and Auxiliaries 


•• 173 


List of Illustrations 


.. 191 


General Index 


•• 193 







Mark the Economy. 

^-teaspoonful of L E M C O 
makes a breakfast cup of deli- 
cious strengthening bouillon — 
1 6 breakfast cups in a 2-oz, jar. 
It goes just as far in cooking. 

"LEMCO" 



4, Lloyd's Avenue, London, E.G. 



Preface. 

The recipes collected in the present volume represent 
the newest and most popular Entries of the present 
time, and the dishes described are of ths highest type of 
the Continental cuisine. 

This work, although extensive, must not be regarded 
to embrace the entire branch of this important course of 
the culinary art, but rather as supplementary to, or in 
advance of, the chapters devoted to Entries in regular 
standard works on cookery. 

As explained in the first part of the book. Entries form 
the most important part of a correctly planned and well 
governed Dinner, and as this course has of late years been 
considerably modified, a greater variety of dishes are 
now admitted under this particular heading. The up-to- 
date chef will, therefore, have a much wider scope for 
these dishes. 

The most noteworthy dishes dealt with have been 
demonstrated by me at the National Training School of 
Cookery during the last and present season, and every 
recipe given has been actually prepared and tested by me, 
so that there should be no fear of failure, provided the 
directions are carefully followed. 

In compiling the recipes, I have endeavoured to 
explain the method of preparing each dish as clearly and 



concisely as possible, in order that any cook possessing 
the necessary rudimentary knowledge should be able to 
carry out the directions without great difficulty. 

Every recipe is complete in itself, and cross references, 
so common in many cookery books, have as much as 
possible been avoided. 

A special feature has been made of the illustrations 
given, which are taken from actual photographs of the 
dishes made according to the recipes. 

It will be noticed that the decorations and garniture 
suggested in the various dishes, and more especially those 
for " cold service," are all edible and wholesome. Over- 
decoration and extravagance in the use of materials, 
especially purely ornamental decorations, have been 
rigidly excluded. At the same time, elegance as well 
as excellence, so essential in dishes of this description, 
has been aimed at in every case. 

London, April, 1907. 




ENTRE-COTES GRILLES EDOUARD VII. (p. 1 01.) 




BROCHETTES d'aGNEAU, TUEBIGO. (p. I08.) 




PETITS PAINS DE MAUVIETTES. 



(P- 103.) 



Entrees* 

INTRODUCTION. 

DISHES following the fish course or preceding the 
Remove, when such is served, are called Entries. 
The literal translation of the word into English 
would be " Entrance " ; and as a matter of fact the 
dishes served under this heading are considered by the 
Epicure as preparatory, or introductions to the more 
serious part of the dinner. 

Entrees are, however, generally looked upon as the 
most essential part of a dinner. There is much to be 
said for this, inasmuch as there may be dinners without 
Hors-d'CEuvre, even without Soup, and without a 
Remove or Relev^, but there can be no well balanced 
dinner without an Entree course. 

Entr&s are defined as " Dressed Dishes," or " Made 
Dishes." A dish bearing the name Entree is as a rule 
composed of more than one ingredient, as distinguished 
from solid meats served with a garnish. 

It has been said that a plain cook's idea of an Entree 
for special occasions is generally a sweetbread or chicken 
coated with a gluey-looking brown or white sauce, and a 
few truffles, some tinned mushrooms, or mac edoine badly 
heated, and for ordinary occasions a Rechauffe of meat 
or poultry dish of some kind. The Entree course 
affords immense scope for the talents of a chef, who is 
often able to prepare Entrees from materials which might 
otherwise be insipid and unattractive. 

It is not too much to assert that upon the Entree course 



lo Recherche "Entrees. 

those which are served with a sauce, and such which are 
served without a sauce, which is frequently the case with 
light Entrees. 

There are a large number of Entrees composed of 
slices of meat, sauteed, fried, grilled, broUed, or braised, 
dressed plainly with a good sauce, or if applicable with a 
dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may 
also be applied to Removes (Releves) ; these, however, 
differ from Entrees inasmuch as in the former case the 
pieces are dressed small, whilst in the latter they usually 
consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the 
other hand there are other dishes of a more elaborate 
kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come 
under the heading of Hot Entrees, solid, otherwise 
known as the smaU hot meats garnished, such as cutlets. 
Fillets, Grenadins, Escallops, Tournedos, large Patfe, 
Sweetbreads, Fricandeaux, Ragouts, Fricassees, Boudins, 
QueneUes, Salmis, Compotes, Timbales, etc., etc. 

Cold Entries. — ^This is known as the Cold Service. 
It is the most elegant and most artistic branch in Cookery 
in general, especially so when large dishes for special 
occasions are to be prepared, such as is the case for ball 
suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, 
etc., where the moulding or ornament in wax, fat, rice, 
etc., is at times required. Flowers, figures, etc., are 
occasionally introduced in a great variety. A great deal 
of skill and study is required for this branch of the art, 
which of late has, as before stated, been considerably 
modified, so much so that socles of wax and fat are 
no longer in vogue. This does not imply that no decora- 
tion is needed, so long as it is of an edible character. 




M^DAILLONS DE VOLAILLE. 



(P- 130-) 



■■ 




pp 


H^H 


^f^^ ' 






filler -t^i^ ^^^^H 


^^M 




■Hi 


ril^^l 



PETITS SOUFFLES DE SAUMON GAULOISE. (/>. 58.) 



Entries. 1 1 

Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, by careful 
study, become an expert in decorating moulds, etc., 
provided he or she will give it the study and attention it 
requires, so as to fully develop some artistic taste and 
ideas. Some suggestions of ornamenting small or large 
moulds are given on pages 13 and 14, which will be 
helpful to many who wish to adopt simple and yet 
effective designs. 

\'arious kinds of sauces known as Chaudfroid sauces, 
and aspic jelly, aspic creams, etc., are brought largely 
into use for all cold Entrees. Such preparations or their 
adjuncts must be prepared with great care ; they must 
be made tasty, and on no account be made too stiff. The 
aspic especially should be well flavoured, limpid, and 
above all transparent and clear ; for if there be any defect 
in this, then the handsomest pieces are open to criticism, 
and very justly so. 

In any cold Entree, the cook's special aim, next to the 
proper cooking of the articles, must be that of rendering 
the dish or the dishes an effective appearance ; this can 
only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly 
arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of 
rice, bread, etc., are used, they should be cut with pre- 
cision and taste. Some kind of symmetrical design 
should be aimed at. 

Hatelets or Skewers. — Hatelets, silver skewers, orna- 
mented with fancifully cut vegetables, truffles, mush- 
rooms, etc., and aspic garnishing, come largely into use 
with hot or cold dishes. These add greatly to the 
effective appearance of any dish, cold as well as hot. 

The number of other dishes, less elaborate than those 



12 Recherche Entrees. 

just named, is also very large. These, although smaller, 
require just as much care and attention, because in a 
sense they are equally important. 

It is well to remember that, in preparing cold dishes, 
plenty of time should be allowed to do them beforehand. 
This kind of work should never be hurried, nor left over 
to be finished at the last moment. 

The Selection of Entr6es for a Dinner. 

The choice of Entries and their preparation must on 
no account clash with either the Fish, Remove or Roast, 
nor must the sauces served with either be the same or 
similar in appearance or flavour. When a hot and a 
cold Entree is served for a meal, the hot Entrde must be 
served first and the cold last. Again, an Entree com- 
posed of small birds (game) usually goes before a dish 
prepared from a large bird (poultry) or large meat. The 
sauce for such dishes (hot) is always served on the dish 
and not separately ; unless the dish wiU not hold suffi- 
cient sauce to go round the table, then some of the 
sauce may be handed round in a sauce-boat. 

In the case of light Entrees, with some exceptions, 
the sauce is, as a rule, handed round separately, a little 
sauce is often poured over the dish just to sauce it, or 
as it is termed in culinary French, to nape. 

It depends entirely upon the fish as to whether a white 
or a brown Entree should take the lead, and this naturally 
depends in a great measure upon the kind of dishes 
selected. If the Remove be a white meat it is best to 
serve the white Entree first, that is if there be two — a 
white and a brown Entr6e, so as to prevent two dishes of 



Entrees. 



13 



a similar kind in colour following. All Entrees should, 
as already stated, be handed round at table and not 
served from the sideboard. 

When light Entr6es are served, or when two or even 
three Entrees are included in the same menu, the dishes 
should on no account be substantial enough to entirely 
satisfy the hunger of the diner, they should then be more 
or less in the form of relishes, so as to stimulate the 
appetite for the more heavy or substantial dishes which 
are to follow. 

The service of Entries should never be hurried at a 
dinner, so as to allow each guest ample opportunity to 
eat of any or all the dishes served under this heading. 




SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATING MOULDS. 



14 



Recherche Entrks, 





Schemes for Decoration. — ^The suggested decorations 
on this and the previous page are especially suitable for 
small timbales, darioles, parfaits, pains, mousses, or 
souffles, cold as well as hot. Truffles, hard-boiled whites 
of egg, green peas, pistachio kernels, pimientos, chillies, 
cucumber, cooked ham or tongue, and other edible and 
suitable ingredients may be used for this purpose. AH 
of which must be cut into thin slices or so shaped as to 
suit the style of decorative design which may be decided 
upon. 



15 



Light Entrees. 



Dominos d la Rochelais (Cold). 

Line i doz. small domino moulds with a very 
thin layer of white aspic jeUy (made with chicken or veal 
stock). Decorate with dots of truffles to represent 
dominoes. Upon this put a thin layer of mayonnaise 
cream (see Sauces), and let it set on the ice. -: 

Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cooked ox tongue, when 
smooth, add i table-spoonful anchovy paste and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of double cream ; incorporate also about J gill 
of chicken or veal aspic. Season with paprika and 
mignonette pepper, and rub all through a fine sieve. 
Spread the prepared pur^e thinly on to a tin, and place 
on the ice to set. Next stamp out the required number 
of domino-shaped sHces, and fix them by means of a 
little liquid aspic into the prepared moulds. 

In a similar way cut very thin slices of black bread 
(Pumpernickel), which must be cut to the exact size of 
the dominoes. Unmould the shapes, and place each on a 
slice of black bread. Have ready some very finely 
shredded and seasoned Batavia salad or Belgian endive, 
in the form of a bed on a round fiat dish. Dress the 
dominoes on this and serve. 



Timbale Turinoise, 
(Macaroni and Ham Timbale.) 

I lb. macaroni (boiled), 4 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. ox- 
tongue, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, i oz. grated Par- 
mesan cheese, i teaspoonful finel}^ grated lemon rind, 
demi-glace or Madere sauce, ^ lb. cooked chicken or 
rabbit meat, i oz. butter, i gUl white sauce, | giU cream, 
2 eggs, salt, pepper and nutmeg. 



1 6 Recherche Entrees. 

Line a well buttered pudding basin with the macaroni. 
Do this carefully so that the shape resembles a beehive 
when turned out. Cut the remainder of the macaroni 
into short pieces. Cut all the meats into julienne strips 
or shreds, also the mushrooms. Put these in a stewpan 
with the butter, stir till hot, add the grated cheese, the 
white sauce, and the cream, heat up well without allow- 
ing it to actually boil, then stir in the eggs, previously 
beaten, and continue to stir over the fire until the mix- 
ture begins to set. Season to taste with salt, pepper and 
a little grated nutmeg, and the lemon rind. Fill the lined 
mould with this, cover with a piece of buttered paper, 
stand it in a stewpan half fihed with boihng water, and 
cook in a brisk oven for about 45 minutes. Turn out 
on to a hot dish, pour round some hot demi-glace or 
MadSre sauce and serve. 



Tartelettes de Ris de Veau aux TrufiEes. 
(Sweetbiead Tartlets with Truffles.) 

I large or 2 small sweetbreads, i giU Supreme or AUe- 
mande sauce, i table-spoonful grated Parmesan cheese, 
I oz. butter, J pint rich stock, 8 preserved mushrooms, 
\ lb. puff paste, 2 truffles, bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg. 

Blanch, trim and cook the sweetbread in the stock till 
tender ; the stock muji-be rich and well flavoured with 
vegetables. When done, take up, cut into dice shapes, 
and put it in a stewpan with the mushrooms and truffles 
cut into small dice or slices. Season with a little pepper, 
salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the sauce (hot), and 
keep hot till required. Line some small round bouche 
moulds with puff paste, prick the bottom of each to 
prevent blistering whilst baking, fill them with rice or 
dried peas (uncooked), and bake them in a hot oven to a 




COTELETTES DE HOMARD A l'aM^RICAINE. 



iP- 64.) 




caneton a la rouennaise. 



Light Entrees. 17 

golden colour. When done take out the rice, unmould 
them, and fill the paste crusts with the sweetbread 
ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated 
cheese and a few bread-crumbs, also a little melted butter. 
Just before serving put them in a sharp oven for a few 
minutes, then serve. 



Poulpetons de Rognons k la Parmentier. 
(Kidney Shapes in Potato Border.) 

3 to 4 sheeps' kidneys, i shaUot, \ glass Marsala, a 
little chopped parsley, seasoning, sharp tomato sauce, 
6 champignons, J oz. butter, 2 table-spoonfuls espagnole 
sauce. For border : 3 medium-sized potatoes and fry- 
ing fat. For bouches lining : 2 oz. choux paste, 6 03. 
pounded chicken meat, panurette crumbs, 2 egg yolks, 
I table-spoonful cream, salt, and nutmeg. 

Skin and slice the kidneys very finely, also slice the 
mushrooms, peel and chop the shallot, fry the latter a 
little in the butter (i oz.), put in the kidneys, and toss 
(saute) them for some minutes over a quick fire. Next 
add the wine and the espagnole sauce, season to taste, and 
cook quickly for a few minutes. Lastly add the chopped 
parsley, and keep till wanted. Prepare a chicken mix- 
ture in this way : pound and sieve the chicken meat, 
mix it with choux paste, stir vigorously over the fire in a 
stewpan, adding the cream and yolks of eggs, then 
season to taste. Butter 12 small bouche or egg moulds, 
sprinkle them with panurette crumbs, and line them with 
the prepared forcemeat, nearly fill each with stewed 
kidneys, etc., and cover well with more chicken mixture. 
Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling 
water, and bake in the oven for about 15 minutes. 
Meanwhile peel and slice very thinly three potatoes, cut 
the slices into very fine julienne or straw strips, soak in 



1 8 Recherche "Entrees. 

water for a time, and drain well on a cloth. Pack these 
loosely in a wire border mould, place the lid on it, and 
plunge into very hot fat for about three minutes, then 
remove ; let the fat get hot again, and plunge in a second 
time until the potatoes acquire a pale brown colour. 
Take up, drain, remove lid, and turn the potato border 
on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt ; dress the poulepetons 
in the centre, pour a little tomato sauce round the dish, 
and send remainder to table in a sauce-boat. 



Petites Timbales ^ la R^gence (Cold). 
(Foie-sras and Ham Timbales.) 

2 oz. smaU macaroni, J gill white sauce (bechamel or 
veloute), I small terrine foie gras, 3-4 slices cooked ham, 
\ gill cream, aspic, salt, paprika and pimientos for 
decoration. 

Cook the macaroni till tender in salted water, drain 
and let cool. Mask the inside of 8 or 10 small timbale or 
plain dariole moulds with aspic, cut some of the macaroni 
into small rings, and place them neatly in the bottom of 
each mould ; in the centre of each ring put a tiny round 
of red pimiento. Cut some even lengths of the remainder 
of macaroni to fit them closely to the sides df the moulds 
in the same manner as a charlotte. 

Stamp out thinly cut rounds of lean ham to fit the 
bottoms of the moulds, dip each in aspic and place them. 
Chop the remainder of ham, then pound with the foie 
gras in a mortar till quite smooth ; add the sauce and 
cream, and season to taste with aromatics, paprika, etc. 
Rub this farce through a fine sieve, and incorporate a 
little aspic to make the mixture set. Fill the moulds 
with this, and place them on the ice. 

Unmould the timbales, and range them on a flat 
entree dish, garnish to taste, and serve. 



Light Entrees. 19 

Petits Souf9§s k la Bayonne (Cold). 
(Small Ham Soufflis.) 

8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, i gill rich Madeira sauce, 
ij gills aspic jelly, \ pint cream, i slice ox-tongue, 
seasoning. 

Cut the ham into small slices, and pound till smooth in 
a mortar ; add the brown sauce gradually, mix well, and 
rub through a fine sieve. Melt the aspic and whisk it 
over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham 
mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, 
and a pinch of ground mace. Whip the cream till stiff, 
and work into the mixture. Continue whisking for some 
minutes, then fill up some small souffle cases (or silver 
casseroles). Place a star-shaped slice of tongue on top 
of each and put them in a charged ice cabinet for two 
hours. Dish up, and serve. 



Cassolettes k la Strasbourgeoise. 
(Small Goose Liver Cassolettes.) 

6 oz. puff paste or short crust paste, i small terrine 
foie gras freed from fat, | teaspoonful meat glaze or 
Lemco, J gUl aspic, \ gill whipped cream, a f?w slices of 
cucumber and red chillies for garnish, seasoning. 

Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some 
rounds and line with them 8 or 10 very small tartlet 
moulds ; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork to 
prevent blistering while baking, and fill the moulds with 
dry peas or raw rice. Bake them in a moderate oven 
until the paste acquires a golden brown colour. Take out 
the peas or rice, unmould and stand the paste crusts on 
a sieve to cool. Pound the foie gras, freed from fat, 
and rub through a fine sieve. Put the foie-gras puree 
in a small basin, incorporate the aspic and meat glaze, 
stir till it begins to set, then add the whipped cream and 
seasoning (pepper and salt). Put this preparation in a 



20 Recherche Entrees. 

savoy or forcing bag with a rose tube and fill the paste 
crusts with it. This must be done with taste and care. 
Scallop the edges of the cucumber slices and place them 
neatly round each other and put a star-shaped slice of 
red chilli in the centre of the cream. Dish up on a folded 
napkin or dish paper, and serve. 



Petites Bombes ^ la Milanaise. 

\ lb. chicken, game, veal or rabbit, 4 table-spoonfuls 
white or brown sauce, i dessert-spoonful chopped truffle 
trimmings or peelings, i oz. panade, 3 yolks and i white 
of egg, I oz. butter, i table-spoonful sherry or Madeira 
wine, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord or 
tomato sauce. 

Cut up the meat, which must be freed from skin and 
sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the 
panade, eggs, and sauce. Season to taste with salt, 
pepper and aromatic spice, mix in about half an ounce of 
butter, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small 
bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with short 
tips of cooked macaroni (these must be cut about an 
eighth of an inch thick). Stand the mould on the ice to 
set, then fill them with the above prepared farce. Place 
them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, 
cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for 
about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and arrange 
the bombes on a hot entree dish, pour some hot tomato 
or Perigord (truffle) sauce over, and serve. 



Parfait de Foie Gras (Cold). 

Use a fine firm goose liver, insert small cube-shaped 
pieces^of truffle, and poach in sherry (with mirepoix) in 
the^'oven];;' (twenty-five to thirty minutes). Set in aspic 
in a suitably shaped terrine, decorate the top with truffles, 



IV. 




QUENELLES DE CANARD A LA BULGARIENNE. [p. 142.] 




TIMEALES DE VOLAILLI;, ROTHSCHILD. (p I32.) 



Light Entrees. 21 

etc., and place on ice till wanted for table. May be 
served in terrine, or turned out and placed on a dish. 



Beignets de Jambon et Foie Gras. 
{French Ham Fritters.) 

6 to 8 slices of raw ham, i terrine or tin of foie gras 
pate, parsley, piquante sauce. For frying batter : 2 
yolks of egg, 4 oa. flour, about \ gill ale, the white of 
one egg, salt and pepper, J table-spoonful of sweet oil, 
frying fat. 

Cut the ham into rounds with an inch or i^in. cutter. 
Remove the lard from the foie gras, cut it into similar 
slices, prepare the frying batter with the above-named 
ingredients, allow it to stand for some time. Spread a 
little of the batter with a knife over each slice of ham, 
place a slice of foie gras between each two, and make up 
like sandwiches. Dip each sandwich into the batter, 
and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, 
garnish with quarters of lemon and fried sprigs of parsley. 
Serve with a well seasoned piquante sauce. 



Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle-Vue (Cold). 
(Small Goose Liver Darioles.) 

Unmould a medium-size terrine of foie-gras pate, free 
it from fat and cut it into slices, put them in a buttered 
saute-pan containing a small mirepoix of sliced carrot, 
onion, a sprig of thyme, and bacon ; cook over a brisk 
fire for a few minutes, and season with aromatic spice, 
moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. 
Mask 8 to 10 small dariole moulds with aspic jelly, orna- 
ment each with fancifully cut slices of truffle. 

Pound the foie gras with the Uquor in a mortar till 
fine and pass through a hair sieve. Put this in a basin 
and mix with i table-spoonful of dissolved meat glaze, 



22 Recherche Entrkes. 

and 2 tatle-spoonfuls of aspic, stand the basin on 
some crushed ice, and work the mixture with a whisk 
until it commences to thicken, then add by degrees a 
little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock ; last of 
all, work in about half a gill of whipped cream. Fill up 
the prepared moulds, and stand them on the ice. Dress 
the mousses in a circle on a round dish, placing each on a 
round slice of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked 
asparagus points well seasoned with mayonnaise and 
aspic. Garnish with triangular-shaped slices of aspic 
jelly and parsley, and serve. 



Escalopes de Foie Gras a la Bagration (Cold). 
(Goose Liver Scallops, Bagration Style.) 
I medium-sized preserved goose liver (foie gras), i gill 
Madeira flavoured aspic jelly, \ gill white chaudfroid 
sauce, \ gill concentrated tomato pulp, 2-3 table-spoon- 
fuls veloute sauce, parsley stalks, 8-10 stoned French 
olives, a small rice border and cup for centre. 

Cut the foie gras into conveniently shaped slices, and 
mask them twice with aspic, place them on a wire tray 
on the ice ; chop or pound the trimmings finely, season 
with salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning, and mix with 
a little veloute sauce, then shape into little ball or marble 
shapes. Heat up and strain the chaudfroid sauce, pre- 
viously mixed with tomato pulp reduced with a little 
glaze. Now coat the balls by dipping them into this 
preparation and let set on a wire tray. Insert a parsley 
stalk into each, and keep on the ice till required. 

Have ready a border shape of rice made with plainly 
boiled and pounded rice, also a cup shape of rice. Place 
the border and cup on a round entree dish, and place the 
foie-gras slices on the border and the little balls on the 
cup suitably hollowed out for the purpose. Garnish 



Light Entrees. 23 

tastefully with halves of French stoned olives stuffed 
with some of the foie-gras mixture, and serve. - 



Beignets de Volaille. 

(Chicken Fritters.) 
Cut some cold roast or boiled chickens into neat 
pieces, trim them and remove the skin ; put them in a 
pie-dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped 
parsley. Moisten with one or two table-spoonfuls of 
best salad oU, and the juice of half a lemon, cover, and 
let it stand for about half an hour. Prepare a Ught 
fr5Tng batter. Drain the pieces of chicken on a cloth, 
dip each into the frying batter so as to completely cover 
it, then drop into hot frying fat and fry to a golden 
brown, take up, drain and dish up on a folded napkin or 
lace paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot or 
cold. 



Petits Souffles de Foies de Volaille. 
(Chicken Liver Soufilds.) 
12 chicken livers, i oz. butter, salt and pepper, J gill 
bdchamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. 
foie gras, 12 china souffle cases. 

Clean and wash the chicken livers, wipe and dry them, 
slice them and fry them in the butter over a quick fire. 
Add the seasoning and pound this in a mortar with the 
foie gras. Pass through a fine sieve and incorporate 
the bechamel sauce and egg yolks, then season to taste. 
Whisk the whites of e^gs to a stiff froth and mix carefully 
with the above. Three-parts fill about 12 china or 
silver-plated souffle cases (previously buttered) with the 
mixture, place them on a baking sheet and bake in a 
moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. 
Dish up and serve hot. 



Light Entrees. 25 

them over with meat glaze, and put in the oven for a few 
seconds. Dish up in a circle on a hot dish, sauce over 
with demi-glace, and serve. 



Crepinettes de Gibier h, la Chasseur. 
(Game Crepinettes.) 

\ lb. cooked game (freed from skin and bone), i oz. 
butter, I small shallot, i egg, lemon juice, salt, pepper 
and nutmeg, i pig's caul, 6 mushrooms, 2 oa. cooked ham, 
I dessert-spoonful flour, a little stock, chopped parsley, 
fried parsley. 

Peel and chop the shallot. Mince evenly but not too 
finely the game meat, ham and mushrooms. Melt an 
ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot, 
and fry a little, then stir in the flour, and cook whilst 
stirring for a few minutes ; moisten gradually with about 
\ gill stock, let it come to the boil, mix with the 
chopped meat; add also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
and a few drops of lemon juice ; bind with the yolk of 
an egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of 
nutmeg. Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a 
plate to cool. Shape the mixture into even-sized oblong 
cakes ; wrap each carefully in a square of pig's caul, 
fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them 
stand a few minutes to set. 

Place the crepinettes in a well greased grill and broil 
in front or over a good fire, allowing about six minutes 
for each side. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. 
Serve with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. 

Note. — Instead of game, chicken, pigeon or duck can 
be used to prepare this dish. 

Cassolettes de Gibier. 
(Cassolettes of Game.) 
Roll out some rough puff or short crust paste, rather 
thinly, stamp out some rounds the size of the moulds 



26 Recherche Entrees. 

used and line with them 8-10 bouche moulds. Fill them 
with dried peas or rice and bake them in a hot oven a 
nice light brown colour. Remove the peas or rice and 
place the cassolette paste crusts on a sieve. 

Prepare the following mixture (salpicon) : Chop finely 
8 oz. of cooked game free from skin and bone, 6 mush- 
rooms, and 4 oa. cooked bacon. Fry in two ounces of 
butter 2 chopped shallots, and put in a dessert- spoonful 
of flour, stir a little and add the chopped meat, season to 
taste and moisten with a gill of well reduced truffle sauce. 
Cook for a few minutes and fill the cassolettes. Decorate 
the top of each with potato or peas puree enriched with 
cream and egg yolks. Bake in a sharp oven for about 
8 minutes. Dish up and serve hot. 



Petites Bouch^es de Faisan a la Mod^rne. 
(Small Pheasant Bouch^es.) 

I lb. mashed potatoes, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i 
truffle, half a cold pheasant, 2 oz. butter, 6 preserved 
mushrooms, i gill veloute sauce, i gill bechamel sauce, 
Panurette crumbs, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. 

Remove the meat from the pheasant, cut it into small 
dice, or mince coarsely, put it in a small stewpan to- 
gether with the mushrooms and the truffle finely chopped 
and sufficient veloute sauce to moisten, add a small piece 
of butter, season, and stir over the fire until hot. This 
forms the salpicon. 

Rub I lb. of cooked potatoes through a fine sieve, mix 
them with an ounce of butter and a little cream. Season 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, let the puree get thor- 
oughly hot, and then add 2 yolks of eggs, and work it 
well for a few minutes. 

Butter some small bouche moulds, besprinkle with 
Panurette, and line them with the potato puree. Place 



Light Entrees, 27 

about a dessert-spoonful of the salpicon in the centre of 
each mould, cover with potato puree, smooth over the 
top with the blade of a knife, then brush over with yolk 
of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until of a golden 
brown colour. 

Heat up the b6chamel sauce, add the remaining ve- 
lout6 sauce and egg yolk, stir well over the fire. When 
hot, finish with a little cream, and add the remaining 
butter bit by bit and season carefully. Turn out the 
little shapes on to an entree dish, pour the sauce round, 
not over them, and serve hot. 

Note. — ^Any other kind of meat, such as chicken, duck, 
goose, rabbit or game, may be used in place of pheasant, 
and worked up in this manner. 



Petits SoufS6s h. la Henri IV. 
(Chicken and Mushroom Souffles.) 

4 oa. cooked chicken meat, i J oz. flour, 2 whites of eggs, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little cooked ham or 
tongue, i| oz. butter, ij gills good white stock, i oz. 
cooked ham, a smaU trufile, 8 large preserved mush- 
rooms, salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour and 
stir till cooked, but do not let it get brown ; add the 
stock and stir till it boils, add the yolks of egg, and stir 
over the fire until thoroughly blended. Chop finely the 
ham and chicken meat (freed from gristle and skin), and 
put this to the mixture. Now add the lemon juice and 
season with salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne ; beat 
up the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix with the 
above. Fill up some buttered china or paper souffle 
cases, place a mushroom head on top of each, surrounded 
with a thin ring of truffle, bake in a moderately heated 
oven for about 15 minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. 



28 Recherche Entries. 

Ravioli t la Napolitalne. 

Farce : 2 oz. cooked chicken, \ oz. grated Parmesan 
cheese, pepper, salt and nutmeg, i table-spoonful 
cooked spinach, i oz. cooked ham, i egg, a dessert- 
spoonful of cream, tomato sauce. 

Pound in a mortar the chicken and ham, when smooth 
add the yolk of an egg, grated cheese and spinach, 
season to taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg ; then rub 
through a fine sieve, and add the cream. 

NouiLLES Paste : 4 oz. flour, a little water or milk, 
I egg, J teaspoonful of salt. 

Prepare a Nouille paste as follows : Sift the flour on 
to a board, make a well in the centre and break the egg 
into it. Melt a teaspoonful of salt in a little water or 
milk, add this to the egg, and work them all well together 
until a smooth and elastic paste is obtained. Wrap the 
paste in a cloth, and let it stand for half an hour. 
Roll out the paste very thinly, and cut it into broad 
strips about an inch wide. Put some of the prepared 
forcemeat on these in small heaps, wet round the edges, 
lay a second strip of paste over, and press well together 
between the little heaps. Stamp them out with an inch 
round psiste cutter, boil the raviolis in fast boiling water for 
about ten minutes. Drain them on a cloth, put them on a 
deep dish, sprinkle over the Parmesan cheese, then pour 
over some hot tomato sauce, and serve. 



Mousselines de Ris d'Agneau (Cold). 
(Lamb's Bread Mousselines.) 
Line 8-10 small entree moulds of suitable shape (oval 
bouche or dariole) with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the 
bottom of each with thin slices of truffle and pistachio ; 
when set, mask the moulds completely with a layer of 
aspic cream. When this is fairly firm, nearly fill the 
moulds with a farce composed of finely pounded cold 



Light Entrees. 29 

braised lambs' breads, shreds of cooked ham, mixed with 
cooked green peas and truffle, and moisten this with 
mayonnaise, before being put into the moulds. Lastly 
pour a good layer of aspic cream on top, ^o as to 
completely fill each mould. 

Place them on the ice to set, and unmould when 
required for table. Range the shapes on a neatly 
decorated foie-gras mousse border, placed in a round 
entree dish, garnish with small salad, and serve. 

Frlandines de Ris d'Agneau. 
(Lamb's Bread Frlandines.) 

^ lb. puff paste, 2 oz. tongue, i truffle, seasoning, 2 
lambs' breads, 6 champignons, | gill AUemande sauce, 
clarified butter for frying. 

The Sauce : i gill tomato sauce, i table-spoonful 
Tarragon vinegar, i French gherkin, | oz. butter. 

Trim, blanch, and braize the lambs' breads with a 
good mirepoix, when done let cool and cut into fine dice. 
Chop the tongue, mushrooms and truffles rather finely, 
mix with the lambs' breads ; and season to taste. Heat 
up the AUemande sauce, put in the above ingredients, 
and let them get thoroughly hot, then spread it on a dish 
and let cool. Roll out the puff paste rather thinly, stamp 
out as many rounds as are required, using a 2|-inch paste 
cutter. Place a dessert-spoonful of the mixture (salpi- 
con) in the centre of a round of paste, on this put a slice 
of truffle, wet the edges and place a second round of paste 
on top ; press the edges together, and continue thus till 
the mixture and paste are used up. Egg them, and crumb 
them in a mixture of crushed vermicelli ajid bread- 
crumbs, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. 
Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve 
with a sauce made by chopping the gherkins finely, 
infuse with the vinegar, and add the tomato sauce ; 
boil up, skim, season, and send to table in a sauce-boat. 



30 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Ris d'Agneau Braises en Caisses (Cold). 
(Lambs' Breads in Cases.) 
Blanch, press and braise 8 lambs' breads, let them cooL 
Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced 
liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. 
Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases ; 
china or silver cases are best for this purpose. Make a 
short ragout of artichoke bottoms cut in fine shreds, and 
seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small table- 
spoonful of this into each of the souffle cases. Upon 
this place a lamb's bread. Put the cases on the ice for 
a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the pre- 
pared demi-glace sauce to almost cover the breads. 
Again put them on the ice so as to set the sauce. Put a 
fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, 
decorate round the edge with cooked green peas, and 
lastly coat with a layer of well flavoured aspic jelly. 



Cannelons ^ la N6va. 
(Cannelons of Lamb's Bread.) 

\ lb. puff paste trimmings, 2 lambs' sweetbreads, i giU 
rich white sauce (allemande or bechamel), 6 mushrooms, 
I egg, fried parsley, 2 oz. cooked ham, i truffle, bread- 
crumbs, and seasoning. 

Roll out the paste, cut it into strips about an inch wide. 
Butter a number of cornet tins, roll the strips of paste 
round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half 
the other at each turn. Keep them all of an even size. 
Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and 
bake on a greased baking-tin in a hot oven, and remove 
carefully, whilst hot, the paste shapes from the tins. 

Blanch and cook the sweetbreads, trim them, 
cut them into dice, warm up in the sauce, and season 
with salt and pepper, then add the ham, the mushrooms, 



Light Entrees. 31 

and truffles, chopped rather coarsely. Fill the baked 
pastry cannelons with this mixture. Reheat them in a 
sharp oven and dish up neatly, arranging them pointed 
end inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the 
centre, and send to table. 



Crepinettes de Foie de Pore. 
(Pork Liver Crepinettes.) 

I lb. pork liver, \ lb. fat ham, a pig's caul, salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, | clove of garlic, a dessert-spoonful chopped 
parsley, i egg, piquante or tomato sauce. 

Cut the liver and ham into fine shreds, put them on a 
plate, mix with it the finely chopped garlic, parsley, the 
yolk of an egg, and season to taste with salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, and aromatic spice. Plunge the caul into lukewarm 
water for a few minutes, then spread it out on to a board 
and cut it into conveniently sized squares. Put a large 
table-spoonful of the mixture in the centre of each square 
of caul ; wet the edge with white of egg, fold over and 
shape neatly into squares. Place the crepinettes on a 
well buttered baking tin or saute-pan folded sides down- 
wards. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes, 
or broil on the griU. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. 



Rissolettes h la Solf^rino. 

I pint of pancake batter, i oz. butter, 4 on. foie gras 
(pate with truffles), 4 mushrooms (preserved), i egg, 2 oz. 
of cooked sweetbread, seasoning, i gill of veloute or 
bechamel sauce, bread-crumbs, frying fat, about 2 oz. of 
chicken forcemeat. 

Fry some very thin pancakes in the butter, stamp 
some rounds out of them about 2 in. in diameter. 

Prepare a salpicon as foUows : Cut the foie gras, 



32 RechercM Entrees. 

mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice. Put 
this in a saut6-pan with the sauce. When thoroughly 
hot, add the yolks of egg. Season with salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put it on a plate and let cool. 
When cold, shape it into little balls ; place these in the 
centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken 
forcemeat round the edge of each and fold over the same 
as rissoles. Brush them over with egg, cover them with 
bread-crumbs, and fry in deep fat to a golden colour. 
Drain the rissolettes carefully and dish them up neatly on 
a folded napkin and serve hot. 



Pains de Ris d'Agneau d la St. Germain (Cold). 

Prepare and cook 8 small timbales of lamb's bread and 
green peas (see Ris d'Agneau braises, p. 30). Mask the 
same number of moulds, similar in shape, but a trifle 
larger, with a thin layer of aspic decorated neatly with 
thin slices of hard-boiled white of egg, cooked ham, 
pimientos, and truffle. Coat again with aspic, and 
place the moulds on the ice. 

Unmould the cooked timbales and let them cool. Set 
each carefully into the prepared moulds, filling the 
cavities with mayonnaise cream, tinted green with a 
little spinach puree or spinach greening. When quite 
set, unmould them and range neatly on a cold dish. 
Garnish with small cress or endive, and serve. 



Petites Bouch^es de Concombre h, I'Indienne (Cold). 
(Cucumber 6ouch6es.) 

I large-sized cucumber, i lemon, ^ oz. curry powder, 
a pinch of saffron, 4 oz. cooked chicken, J gill white sauce, 
8 small preserved mushrooms, J lb. rice, i oz. butter, 
I shallot, 2 oz. ham, 2 egg-yolks, \ gill cream, seasoning. 

Cut the cucumber into ij-inch thick slices, and stamp 
out the rind of each with a fluted cutter. Cut out the 
inside portion of each with a plain cutter. Blanch the 



VI. 




CHARTREUSt D'£pERI,A.N A LA MANd£. 



(p. 68.) 




M^DAILLONS DE SADMON, DIPLOMATE. 



{P- 57.) 




PAINS DE RIS d'AGNEAU A LA ST. GERMAIN. (p. 33.) 




TIMBALE TURINOISE. 



{p. IS.\ 



Light Knirici- 33 

cucumber shapes in salted water, and drain them on a 
sieve. 

Wash the rice, and cook till tender in water containing 
salt and lemon juice. Drain, and pass half of it through a 
mincing machine. With this fill 8-10 small patty pans, 
and set them to cool. Peel and mince the shallot finely, 
fry it in butter to a golden colour ; add the curry 
powder, and fry likewise. Chop the ham and chicken 
finely, and pound both in a mortar, add a pinch of 
saffron and the necessary seasoning, also the cream ; 
stir this into the curry with the sauce. Heat up and 
bind with the yolks of eggs. 

Place the cucumber shapes in a buttered saute-pan, 
and fill them with the prepared puree, put a mushroom 
head on top of each, cover with a buttered paper, and 
cook in a moderate oven for 15 minutes. Unmould the 
rice shapes, trim them neatly and heat them up ; then 
range them in a circle on a dish, and dress the cucumber 
upon them as soon as they leave the oven. Put the 
remainder of rice (heated) in the centre of the dish and 
serve. 



Omelette Princiere. 

Break and beat up 10 eggs in a basin, season with salt 
and pepper, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of double cream. 
Slice and toss in butter 6 cooked new potatoes, mixed 
with 2-3 slices of finely shredded cooked ham, and keep 
hot. 

Make one large or two smaller omelettes in the usual 
way and fill with the prepared sauteed potatoes. Fold 
in the ends, and turn out on to a hot dish. Have ready 
about 12 slices of blanched beef marrow, moistened or 
glazed with meat glaze, and range them neatly in a row, 
or as border on or round the omelette, besprinkle with 

c 



34 Recherche Entrees 

finely chopped parsley and serve with a small quantity of 
b6arnaise and tomato sauce (blended) poured round 
the base of the dish. 



Macaroni ^ la Rivoli. 

J lb. large Naples macaroni, i small terrine of foie 
gras, I teaspoonful meat glaze, 2 eggs, frying batter 
and fat to fry. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water, when done, drain 
and cool them in cold water. 

Pound the foie gras free from fat and prepare a light 
trace made from the foie-gras puree, the meat glaze and 
the yolk of an egg, aU well mixed, seasoned to taste, and 
rubbed through a sieve. Lay out the macaroni on a 
cloth to drain, put the farce in a forcing bag with a plain 
tube, and with it fill the macaroni. Poach them in a little 
stock in a saute-pan, take up, drain and cool again. 
Next cut them into 3 in. or longer if wished, egg and 
crumb them, or dip in frying batter. Fry them in clar- 
ified fat to a nice golden brown. Take up, drain, and 
dish up. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and 
serve. 

Note. — For crumbing use one-third of Panurette, two- 
thirds of freshly made white bread crumbs, and about 
a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. 



Saussalls a la Walkow. 

I lb. of puff or rough puff paste, 3 Frankfort sausages, 
J lb. sauerkraut. 

Roll out the puff or rough paste, stamp on the required 
number of rounds, and line with them eight small plain 
timbale moulds. Cut the previously cooked sausages into 
even-sized pieces, short enough to fit into the prepared 
moulds. Remove the skin, and wrap each piece in sauer- 



Light 'Entrees. 35 

kraut, then place into the paste-hned moulds. Pour a 
little stock in each, and cover with a round of paste. 
Bake them in a moderately heated oven for about 25 
minutes. Unmould the shapes carefully, remove the 
lid, dish up, and force a narrow border of hot spinach 
pur6e round the edge of each saussalis. Garnish with 
crisp parsley and serve hot. 

It is advisable to add a pinch of paprika or cayenne to 
the sauerkraut, which will require no other seasoning. 



Cromesquis k la Russe. 
(Russian Chicken Kromeskis.) 

Prepare a salpicon composed of cooked chicken fillet, 
ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles and white sauce. 
When set and cold, make up into little rolls ; wrap each 
in a thin slice of bacon. Dip in frying batter so as to 
coat each kromeski completely with batter, and fry 
in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and 
garnish with fried parsley. Serve with piquante or 
tomato sauce. 



36 Recherche 'Entrees. 



Some Vegetable Entrees and 
Farinage Dishes. 

Corlbeilles aux C6pes. 
(Pastry Baskets filled with C6pes.) 

I lb. short crust or puff paste trimmings, \ pint jar or 
tin of preserved cepes (cepes a I'huile or cepes au naturel), 
2 oz. lean ham, i shallot, i 02. butter, \ teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Roll out thinly the paste, line 10 or more quenelle 
shell moulds, or else fluted patty tins, fill them with rice 
and bake to a golden brown in a moderately heated oven. 
Stamp out some rings of paste, which will, when baked 
and cut in two, form the handles of the pastry cases, thus 
forming basket shapes. Remove the rice from the paste 
crusts as soon as baked, and let cool. Drain the cepes 
carefully and cut them into dice, chop the peeled shaUot 
finely and fry in butter a light colour, pour oft some of the 
butter, put in the ham chopped rather finely, fry a little, 
then add the cepes and toss or saute them for a few 
minutes. Season to taste, and fill each little case with 
this mixture. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, 
fasten on the handles with a little batter across the 
basket cases. Set them in a hot oven for about 5 
minutes. Dish and serve. 



Tlmbale de Legumes t I'lndienne. 
(Vegetable Timbale, Indian Style.) 
Line a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously 
buttered, with round shoes of cooked carrots, hard- 
boiled eggs, and asparagus points ; this must be done 
as neatly as possible to ensure an effective appearance. 



Vegetable Entrees. 37 

Place the mould on the ice till needed. Mix a pint of 
cooked spinach puree with a gill of curry sauce (see 
Sauces) previously mixed with 4 a gill of aspic. Stir 
in also one table-spoonful of cream and two table- 
spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Season to taste with lemon 
juice, salt and pepper ; then add about a gill of cooked 
macedoine of vegetables. Mix carefully and fill the 
prepared mould with this preparation, place it on the ice 
till set, then unmould on to a cold dish. Garnish with 
slices of cucumber and beetroot, small salad and aspic 
jelly, and serve. 



Tomates t la Rentiere (Cold). 

6-8 sound and ripe tomatoes, J gill picked prawns or 
shrimps, 6 oz. cooked ox-tongue, \ pint bechamel or 
allemande sauce, i table-spoonful cream, Krona pepper, 
nutmeg and salt, 2 leaves of French gelatine, tomato 
aspic or tomato cream for coating, i large trulHe, aspic 
border, celery and lettuce for garnish. 

Choose the tomatoes firm, of even size, and not too 
large, plunge them into boiling water for a few seconds and 
peel them quickly. Scoop out carefully a portion of the 
inside and fill the cavities with the following mixture : — 
Pound the tongue in a mortar, adding by degrees three 
parts of the white sauce, season to taste, and rub through 
a sieve. Now add the cream and the prawns or shrimps. 
Dissolve the gelatine with a little water, and strain into 
the mixture, stir until it begins to set, then fill the 
tomatoes. After a while, mask each stufted tomato with 
a pink coloured chaudfroid sauce (tomato cream), and 
put them on the ice to set. Garnish each tomato with a 
fancifully cut slice of truffle. Coat a border mould with 
aspic cream, and fill up with layers of aspic jelly interlined 
with some macedoine of vegetables and let set. To serve 
this dish unmould the aspic border on a cold entree dish, 



38 Recherche Entrees. 

range the tomatoes neatly on top of the border, fill the 
centre with dresised heart leaves of lettuce and finely 
shredded celery. Serve as a cold entree or luncheon dish. 
Note. — By incorporating the remainder of white sauce 
with a sufficient quantity of aspic jelly, it will serve 
as the cream for lining the border. 



Choux Farcis Brais6s au Beurre. 

(Braised Stuffed Cabbage.) 

2 small spring cabbages, \ lb. mushrooms, \ lb. fat 
bacon, \ lb. fresh bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of egg, \ lb. 
sausage meat, 2 01. butter, i onion, i clove, chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, etc., x\ pints of stock, i gill brown 
sauce. 

Remove the outside leaves from the cabbages, trim 
and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and 
a small piece of soda or moist sugar, parboil for 15 
minutes, drain, and cool in fresh water, press them 
gently, cut each in two longways, remove the stalky 
parts, and spread the cabbages on a cloth. 

Prepare a stuffing with the mushrooms finely chopped, 
the sausage meat, the bread-crumbs, about a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg yolks, season 
with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Mix also an 
ounce of butter with the preparation, and make up into 
small egg shapes, cover well with cabbage leaves, and 
shape them neatly. Wrap each in a thinly cut slice of 
fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stew- 
pan or deep saute-pan, add the stock, a small onion 
stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter. Set it in the 
oven and let braise gently for about an hour, baste from 
time to time. Drain the cabbage shapes, untie, remove 
the bacon and line with it a hot dish, range the cabbage 
shapes neatly on this. 

Remove the fat from the gravy, add the brown sauce 
and reduce to half glaze, strain over the dish, and serve 
hot. 



Vegetable Entrees. 39 

Aul)§rgines, Sicilienne. 
(Egg Plants, Sieilian Style.) 

Slit. 4 aubergines (egg plants) lengthways and peel 
them. Season them with salt and paprika pepper ; 
then roll each slice in flour and fry them in clarified but- 
ter, take up and drain carefully. 

Prepare a stiff batter or paste with J lb. grated Par- 
mesan cheese and 2 yolks of eggs, suitably seasoned. 
Spread one side of each piece of aubergine and sandwich 
them together in twos. Dip them in a light frying batter 
and fry in deep fat or oil to a golden colour. 

Drain well on a cloth. Dish up and serve with a 
piquante tomato sauce. 



Cr6pinettes de Gourge k l'Irap6ratrice. 
(Vegetable Marrow Crepinettes.) 

I vegetable marrow, i lb. sausage meat, i pig's caul, 
seasoning, butter, demi-glace sauce, i egg, potato pur^e, 
fried parsley. 

Peel the vegetable marrow,cut it into halves lengthways, 
scoop out the soft portion and cut the rest into neat 
oblong or round slices (medallions). Blanch them in 
salted water and drain on a sieve. 

Pound the sausage meat in a mortar till smooth, add- 
ing the beaten yolk of an egg and a little cream or stock. 
Season to taste if found necessary, and rub through a fine 
sieve. With this farce envelop the pieces of vegetable 
marrow, and then wrap each piece so prepared in a piece 
of pig's caul, fixing the ends with a little white of egg 
Place them on a griller and baste with butter. Grill over 
a bright fire, allowing about 6 minutes each side. Brush 
over with butter occasionally. 

Dish up neatly in the centre of a potato puree border, 
garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boat 
of rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. 



40 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Timbales de B16 Vert. 
(Green Corn Tlmbales.) 

Beat up three eggs, season with salt, and paprika or 
cayenne, add a gill of milk, \ gill of cream, and \ pint of 
green corn. Fill up some well buttered timbale moulds, 
and stand in a saute-pan of boiling water, cover with 
buttered paper and bake for about 20 minutes. Turn 
out on to a hot dish, and serve with hot bechamel 
sauce, enriched with a little cream, containing some 
lemon juice, finely chopped parsley and chervil. 



Cassolettes de C616ri et Macaroni. 
(Celery and Macaroni Cassolettes.) 
Trim and wash 2 heads of white celery, boil it till 
tender in milk and water, seasoned with salt and a bay- 
leaf. Drain the celery, and cut it into i-inch lengths. 
Cook likewise 2 oz. of macaroni (spaghetti) in salted 
water and when done drain on a sieve and cut into short 
pieces. Heat up i| gills of rich white sauce (bechamel 
or velout^), put in the celery and macaroni, season with 
white pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and let the 
whole simmer gently for 15 minutes or longer. 
Great care must be taken so as not to break the celery or 
macaroni. Have ready 9-10 oblong or oval cassolette 
cases lined with thin nouille paste and baked (blind) 
to a golden brown. Fill these with the above prepara- 
tion. Dish up on a hot entree dish and serve. 



Petits Souffles au C616ri. 
(Small Celery Souffles.) 

\ lb. of the white part of celery, a small blade of mace, 
I oz. butter, pepper and celery salt, \ oz. grated Par- 
mesan cheese, i| gills milk, \ bay-leaf, i slice of onion, 
I oz. flour, 3 eggs. 

Trim and wash the celery, slice it thinly, blanch in 
salted water and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay-leaf, 



Vegetable Entrees. 41 

mace and onion in a stew-pan and boil till tender, re- 
move the mace and bay -leaf, and pass the celery, etc., 
through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter 
in a stew-pan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the 
flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a 
wooden spoon for several minutes over the fire, put in 
the celery pur6e and let cool a little ; then add the 
grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of 2 eggs and one 
whole egg ; this must be done gradually. Whisk the 
whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle with the 
mixture ; season with a little cayenne or Krona pepper. 
Three -parts fiU some paper or china ramequin or souffle 
cases. Bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. Ar- 
range the cases on a hot dish with folded napkin, and 
serve immediately. 



Artichauts h, la Madras. 
(Globe Artichokes, Madras Style.) 

Boil six green or globe artichokes in salted water, and 
when nearly done, remove the leaves and scoop out the 
inside of bottoms, being careful not to break them. 
Trim them neatly, and finish cooking the artichoke 
bottoms in rich white stock. Prepare a sauce as 
follows : — 

Peel and chop a large shallot, fry in J oz. of butter a 
golden brown, add one table-spoonful of flour and blend, 
then add one dessert-spoonful of curry paste, | a dessert- 
spoonful of turmeric, i dessert-spoonful of chopped 
Madras chutney, i teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch 
of ground mace. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes. 
Moisten with | a gill of stock, put in | a chopped apple, 
I small piece of chopped cucumber, a few raisins, and 
the meat of six prawns. Cook for \ an hour, then rub 
through a fine sieve. Re-heat, and add i table-spoonful 
of cream, and the juice of half a lemon ; then season to 
taste. Dish up the artichoke bottoms, fill them with 



42 Recherche Entrees. 

plainly cooked rice, pour the sauce round the dish, and 
garnish with the heads of prawns. Add to the remaining 
portion of the mixture, 2 table-spoonfuls of demi-glace, 
and 2 of tomato puree, with a little cream ; season, boil 
and strain, and pour round the base of the dish. Serve 
hot. 

Note. — In place of fresh artichokes, preserved arti- 
choke bottoms sold in bottles or tins, as "Fonds d'Arti- 
chauts," can be used. 



Souffles glae6s h, PArgenteuil (Iced). 
(Small Asparagus Souffles.) 

Boil in salted water the heads or soft parts of half a 
bundle of best English asparagus, previously washed and 
boiled. When tender strain off the water and put the 
asparagus through a fine sieve Heat up with i gill of 
rich bechamel sauce and season with salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg. When cold, incorporate half-pint of 
whipped cream and freeze the mixture in the usual way 
in a freezing pot. 

Fill up a number of very small sliver-plated casserole 
pans each provided with a paper band, insert i head of 
asparagus in the centre of each, and place the shapes in a 
charged ice cabinet for about one hour or longer. 

Before serving, sprinkle over each souffle a few finely 
chopped pistachio nuts. 

Remove the paper bands and dish up. 



Fonds d'Artichauts Alsacienne. 
(Artichoke with Foie Gras.; 

Drain some artichoke bottoms (cooked) and fill them 
with a puree of foie gras and truffles, coat well with a 
rich well reduced white sauce. Sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and brown in oven. 



Vegetable Entrees. 43 

Beignets d'Articiiauts. 
(Artichoke Flitters.) 

Cut some cooked artichoke bottoms into slices and 
season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped 
parsley. Dip these pieces, drained, in frying batter. Fry 
in hot fat, drain, dish up and serve hot. 



Souffles d'Artichauts. 
(Articlioke SouIBds.) 
Mix a pound of Jerusalem artichoke puree with i oz. 
bread-crumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs, season with nutmeg, 
salt and pepper, and stir in the stift whites of 2 eggs. 
Drop spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a golden brown, 
or fill into small souffle cases and bake in sharp oven from 
10-15 minutes. Dish up and serve hot. 



Petits Choux & la Lorraine. 
(Stuffed Cabbage Rolls.) 

Blanch 2 small well washed and trimmed spring 
cabbages, divide each and select the best leaves, placing 
two or three together and lay out flat. Have ready a 
mixture composed of sausage meat, chopped ham, 
savoury herbs, chopped suet, bread-crumbs, and mix 
with beaten egg. Make this up into rolls and wrap up 
each with the cabbage leaves, tie with a small piece of 
string and place in an earthenware stewing pot contain- 
ing a mirepoix of bacon, carrot, and onion. Moisten 
with rich stock and braise for 20 minutes. Remove the 
fat and add 3-4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce. Con- 
tinue to cook for another 20 minutes. Take up the 
cabbage rolls, untruss and dish up, reduce the sauce, and 
pour over or round the base of the dish. 



Spaghetti k la Maltaise. 
Boil I lb. of spaghetti, a kind of macaroni only very 
much smaller, until tender in salted water, drain well 



44 Recherche 'Entrees. 

and put them back into the stew-pan, add 2 oz. butter 
and heat up thoroughly, then add by degrees 2 oz. grated 
cheese and season with salt and pepper to taste. Skin 
2 sheep's kidneys, and cut into tine slices. Cook, i.e., 
saute them in butter over a brisk fire, season with salt 
and paprika, and moisten with \ pint tomato sauce. 
Cook for a few minutes and lastly add 6 finely chopped or 
sliced mushrooms and heat up. Dish up the spaghetti 
on a deep round dish in the form of a border, dress the 
stewed kidney, etc., in the centre, sprinkle over a little 
finely chopped parsley and serve hot. 



Cremes de Betterave. 
(Beetroot Creams.) 

I or 2 beetroots (cooked and pickled in vinegar), i gill 
milk, J.\ oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, i table-spoonful cream, 
2 eggs, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, fried or toasted bread. 

Cut the beetroot into inch thick slices and by means of 
a paste cutter three-quarters of an inch in diameter, see 
that all the slices are of an even size, then with a 
smaller cutter cut out the inside of each and place these 
on rounds of fried or toasted bread. Put the milk and 
butter in a stew-pan, add a bay-leaf and bring it to the 
boil, then stir in the flour (previously sifted). Mix well 
together and stir over the fire for about 5 minutes. Let 
the mixture cool a little, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, the 
cream, grated cheese and season to taste, remove the 
bay-leaf, and add about a gill of finely chopped 
beetroot. Whisk the whites of egg to a froth and mingle 
with the above. Fill the prepared beetroot shapes with 
this mixture, sprinkle over the top with a few fine bread- 
crumbs, place the shapes on a baking tin and bake in a 
brisk oven from 10 to 12 minutes. Dish up on the 
bread croutes, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, 
and serve at once. 



Vegetable Entrees. 45 

Fonds d'Artichauts A la Creole. 
(Farced Artichoke Bottoms.) 

8 artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. lean ham, i oz. cooked ox- 
tongue, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 small truffles, 6 
champignons, i gill veloute sauce, J oz. grated Parmesan, 
I oz. butter, i table-spoonful of cream, chicken force- 
meat, seasoning. 

Drain and wipe the artichoke bottoms. Cut the ham, 
tongue, mushrooms, chicken meat, and one truffle into 
fine shreds. Mix with sufficient veloute sauce to moist- 
en, work the cream into the chicken farce. Place a 
table-spoonful of this salpicon mixture in each of the 
artichoke bottoms. Cover with chicken forcemeat, 
smooth over with the blade of a knife (pyramid shape). 
Put them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a buttered 
paper, and put them in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 

Meantime warm up the remainder of the sauce ; add 
the Parmesan cheese, and stir until it boils, work in the 
butter, season with salt and pepper, strain the sauce and 
keep hot. 

Dish up the prepared artichokes in a hot entree dish, 
pour over the sauce. Decorate the centre of each fond 
with fancifully cut slices of truffle, previously warmed in 
a little stock, and serve. 



Coeurs d'Artiehiuts Maraichere. 
(Braised Articbolte Hearts.) 

6 small tender globe artichokes, i lemon, salt and 
pepper, i gill of olive oil, i small leek, 2 tomatoes, i clove 
garlic, 3 slices of bacon, 6 small new potatoes, i small 
glass white wine, i gill of rich stock, a small handful of 
each spinach and sorell leaves. 

Trim the artichokes, and blend them in salted water 
containing lemon juice, take up, and drain them, then cut 
into halves or quarters, and trim again, by shortening the 
leaves considerably. Heat up the oil in a stew-pan 



46 Recherche Entrees, 

(fireproof earthenware), fry in it the bacon and the leek, 
cut into fine shreds, also the garlic ; peel and cut the 
tomatoes into shreds, and add them to the above. 
Upon this range the artichokes together with the potatoes, 
previously washed, peeled and blanched. Moisten with 
the wine and stock, and season with salt and pepper, 
then place the spinach and sorell leaves previously washed 
on top. Cover the pan with a well fitting lid, seal up the 
edges with a band of paste, and cook the contents of the 
pan thus hermetically sealed in the oven for about 45 
minutes. 

Remove the paste band, and send the Cocotte to 
table — hot, placing it on a large dish with folded napkin. 



C616ri-Raves Tyrolienne. 

(Celeriac Fritters.) 

2 celeriac, 6-8 large sauce oysters, i a small French 
dinner roll, 2 egg yolks, i teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 
I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, fr37ing batter, and 
clarified butter and oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish 
seasoning. 

Wash and peel the celeriac, then cut into slices about 
\ of an inch thick, blanch them in salted water, and 
cook in white stock or seasoned water tiU nearly tender. 
When done, drain them on a cloth, and let get cold. 

Beard the oysters, and chop them finely, put them into 
a basin with the oyster liquor. Soak the crumby part of 
the French roll in a little milk, when soft, squeeze out the 
moisture, and mix with the oysters, adding also the eggs, 
anchovy, and chopped parsley. Season to taste, and 
mix well. Spread the mixture between each two slices 
of celeriac, and sandwich them together. Dip each into 
a light frying batter, and fry in deep oil and clarified 
butter, till of a nice golden brown. Take up, drain well, 
and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley and serve hot. 



Vegetable Entrees. 47 

Coquilles aux Petits Pois a la Su6doise (Cold). 
(Coquils ot Peas, Swedish Style.) 
Line or mask 6-8 coquil or shell moulds with a thin 
layer of very clear aspic jelly Decorate the bottom of 
each mould with finely cut strips of truffle, gherkins and 
hard-boiled whites of egg. Mix the remainder of these 
ingredients with about \ pint of cooked green peas (cold), 
and about lo preserved mushrooms, cut into small dice, 
also a handful of pea shapes of cucumber previously 
cooked in salted water and drained. Blend aU these 
carefully in a basin and add sufficient mayonnaise and 
aspic to season the ingredients. Fill the prepared 
moulds partially with this, and pour sufficient aspic in 
each to completely fill the moulds. Place them on the 
ice till quite set, then un mould and dish up tastefully in a 
round or oval dish, garnish the centre with seasoned 
small salad and chopped aspic and serve. This is an 
excellent dish for the warm weather months. In place 
of coquil moulds, small darioles or timbales may be 
used. 



Petites Timbales h la Duxelle. 
(Small Duxelle Timbales.) 

2 oz. lean ham, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, 
parsley, a few slices of tongue, 2 shallots, Allemande 
sauce, chicken forcemeat, i\ oz. butter, i egg, hot 
Ravigote sauce (see Sauces), and seasoning. 

Butter 6-8 plain timbale or dariole moulds ; decorate 
the inside of the moulds by placing a thin round of 
tongue at the bottom of each, and at equal distances 
round the tongue four tiny rounds of truffle ; cut some 
strips of tongue the length of the moulds and line the 
sides to form four triangles ; fix a number of tiny round 
bits of truffle at equal distances against the sides 
and line the inside with a layer of chicken forcemeat. 



48 Recherche Entrees. 

Chop up the ham, mushrooms, trimmings of truffles and 
tongue. Melt an ounce of butter, when hot add the 
shallots, finely chopped, and fry a little, then put in the 
ham, etc., half a teaspoonful parsley, stir over the fire for 
a few minutes, moisten with about half a gill of AUe- 
mande sauce, beat up the egg and mix about half of it 
with this, season with pepper and salt, and a good pinch 
of aromatic spice. Stir until the mixture begins to set. 
Fill up the moulds with this, cover the top of each 
mould with a layer of farcemeat, if you have any over ; 
place them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, 
cover with a buttered paper. Steam in the oven for 
about 20 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, range the 
shapes in a neat style, have ready some hot Ravigote 
sauce, and pour this round (not over) the timbales, and 
serve. 



Champignons h la Reine. 
(Musbrooms, Queen Style.) 

\ lb. of small cup mushrooms of even size, 4 oz. of raw 
chicken or veal, 2 oz. butter, \ gill bechamel sauce, 3 
table-spoonfuls of cream, i gill supreme sauce, 1 lemon, 
8 fleurons, meat glaze, 2 truffles, 2 yolks of eggs, season- 
ing, cooked rice for border. Fleurons of puff paste. 

Wash and drain the mushrooms, peel them, and remove 
the stalks. Put half the stalks and the peeled mushroom 
heads in a well tinned stewpan, with the butter, and juice 
of a lemon. Cover, and let cook for about 10 minutes. 
Pound the stalks and rub them through a sieve. Pound 
also the chicken or veal, add to it the white sauce 
(bechamel), and the yolks of eggs. Season with salt and 
pepper, and sieve them, then mix with the mushroom 
pur^e. Drain the mushroom heads and fill them with 
the prepared farce. Then poach them in stock in the 
oven. 



VIII. 




DOMINOS A LA ROCHELAIS. 



(p. 15.) 




EPINARDS FARCIS A LA MOELLE. (p. 49.) 




IIFFLKS nF. rATTTFC. MAEECHALE. (^•153-) 



Vegetable Entrees. 49 

Cook the rice, about 4 oz., in stock, season, and fill 
into a buttered border mould. Turn out on to a hot 
dish. In the centre and on the border dress the farced 
mushrooms, sauce over carefully with the supreme sauce, 
and place a slice of truffle, previously glazed, on each 
visible mushroom head. Garnish the dish with fleurons, 
and serve hot. 



Epinards Farcis t la Moelle. 
(Braised Spinach with Beet Marrow.) 

i| lb. spinach (large leaves), \ lb. sausage meat (or 
6 oz. of veal, and 4 oz. pork finely minced and seasoned), 
I J 02. butter, I lemon, i gill of gravy, i table-spoonful 
meat glaze, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped par.jley, 8-10 small 
slices of beef marrow, seeisoning, fleurons of puft paste. 

Wash the spinach, remove the stems, and any withered 
parts of the leaves, then blanch and afterwards drain 
the spinach. Prepare the farce-meat, if that be used in 
place of the sausage meat, and make up either into small 
ball shapes, adding 1-2 yolks of eggs, and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley. Lay out on a board 5-6 spinach 
leaves, and make up into ball shapes with the sausage or 
farce meat, being careful that the latter are well enclosed 
in spinach. Range the shapes thus obtained in a 
buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten 
with the gravy, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter 
on top. Cook this in the oven, covered, for about 30 
minutes. Blanch the beef marrow, and drain on a 
cloth, then put in a baking tin, and re-beat in the oven. 
Melt the meat glaze and remainder of butter together, 
add I teaspoonful parsley and lemon juice, with this 
glaze the slices of marrow. Dish up the spinach in a 
suitably shaped dish, place a shoe of marrow in each 
shape of spinach. Pour the remainder of gravy and 
glaze round the base of the dish, garnish with fleurons, 
and serve hot. 

D 



50 Recherche Entrees. 

Ramequins aux Garrottes. 
(Savoury Carrot Tartlets.) 

2 oi. cooked ham, i bunch of young carrots, 3 yolks 
and I white of egg, J gill cream, i dessert-spoonful rice 
flour (fecule de riz), puft paste, i table-spoonful sherry, I 
gill stock, 2 o'c. butter, seasoning. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, slice them finely and put 
them in a stew-pan with the butter and the ham finely 
chopped, stir over a fire for about five minutes, and 
besprinkle with a dessert-spoonful of rice flour, then 
moisten with the stock, and cook till tender, stirring 
occasionally. Rub the cooked carrots through a fine 
sieve and return the puree to the stew-pan, now add the 
sherry and let it get thoroughly heated whilst the pan is 
covered. Stir in the cream and the egg-yolks ; season 
to taste with salt and white pepper and cayenne. Stir 
over the fire till the eggs are partly set, then remove and let 
cool a little. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and 
mix lightly with the puree. Line some small casserole 
or tartlet moulds with thinly rolled out puff paste, prick 
the bottoms with a fork and fill them with the puree. 
Bake them in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. 
Dish up and serve hot. 



Concombre farcie Agrasienne. 
(Farced Cucumber, Agrasienne Style.) 

I cucumber, 3 oz. cooked ham, 2 teaspoonfuls meat 
glaze, |- pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, 2 table-spoonfuls 
curry sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms. 

Cut a fairly large even-shaped cucumber into 8 pieces 
about i|in. thick, and with a fluted paste cutter stamp 
out each piece so as to remove the skin and obtain a 
neat shape. Place them in a buttered saut6-pan with 
a gill of white stock or water previously mixed with a 
teaspoonful of meat glaze. Cover with a piece of but- 
tered paper, and poach in the oven for about 10 minutes. 



Farinage Dishes. 51 

then take up the cucumber, stamp out the centre part of 
each piece and put them on a wire sieve to drain. Chop 
the ham and pimiento, mix them with the curry sauce 
and the remainder of meat gla2e. Fill the cucumber 
shapes with this and place a mushroom head on top of 
each. Force out a star-shape of lobster or parsley butter. 
Re-heat in the oven or serve cold, in which case the 
mushroom or butter garnish may be omitted. 

Ravioli d, I'ltalienne. 

i lb. flour, 2 or 3 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, about 
6 oi. fish or liver farce, if gills good tomato sauce, 2 oz. 
grated Parmesan cheese, J oi,. butter. 

Sift the flour on to a paste board, make a well in the 
centre of the Hour, add a pinch of salt, mix in the yolks 
of eggs and a little water, and work it to a stift paste ; 
this must be kneaded thoroughly for at least ten minutes; 
it must be stiff and yet of an elastic texture. Roll out 
the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds 
about the size of a half-crown piece, put about a tea- 
spoonful of farce (liver or fish forcemeat richly seasoned 
and mixed with Parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet 
the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of 
paste, press the edges well together, and proceed thus 
until the farce is used up. Poach the raviolis in fast 
boihng seasoned stock, and cook for at least 15 minutes. 
Take up, drain and dish up. Pour over the tomato 
sauce, well heated and seasoned, and serve. 



Riz k la Hongroise. 
(Rice, Hungarian Style.) 
Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it), put it 
into a stew-pan with lid. Add 2 oz. of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of paprika and a teaspoonful of salt ; mix well, 
cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add 
a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a 



52 Recherche Entrees. 

quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and 
let cook slowly on the stove or in the oven from i to 2 
hours. A very small bunch of savoury herbs can be 
added while the rice is cooking, but must be removed 
before it is served. Serve in little well -buttered ramakin 
or souffle cases. 

(Eufs a la Printaniere. 
(Egg Shapes with Spring Vegetables.) 

Butter eight small timbale or bouche moulds, and 
decorate the bottom of each with fancifully cut slices of 
cooked vegetables, such as carrots, or turnips, peas or 
French beans, etc. Break a fresh egg into each mould, add 
a dessert-spoonful of cream, and poach them in the oven 
for about 10 minutes. Prepare a rich white sauce, to 
which add i or 2 yolks of eggs, and a few drops of lemon 
juice. Unmould the egg shapes, and dish up ; add a 
few drops of meat glaze, and a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil to the sauce, and 
pour this round the base of the dish. Garnish to taste, 
and serve hot. 



Riz h la Polonaise. 
(Rice, Polish Style.) 

\ lb. Carolina rice, 2 oz. butter, i quart chicken or beef 
stock, 3 smah shallots, i small onion stuck with 3 cloves, 
4-6 small firm tomatoes, grated cheese, salt and pepper. 

Clean the rice but do not wash it, put it in a stew-pan 
with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, 
then add the shallots previously peeled and chopped 
finely, and let brown a little, moisten with the stock or 
broth, add onion and tomatoes, the latter peeled, cut 
into slices, season slowly and cook for about an hour. 
A few minutes before serving, add 2oz. of grated Gruyere 
or Parmesan cheese and remove the onion. Dress the 




FII.ETS DE TURBOT, ISABELLE. 



{P- 56.) 




COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA GELEE. (p, 112.) 



Farinage Dishes. S3 

rice in pyramid shape on a hot dish. Garnish with a 
few very thinly cut strips of red pimiento, and serve hot. 

Riz k rindienne. 
(Curried Rice.) 

6 02. rice, i teaspoonful curry powder, 2 shallots, i^ oz. 
butter, I gill brown sauce, i tomato, i hard-boiled egg, 
I teaspoonful cream, seasoning, watercress for garnish. 

Pick, wash, and arain the rice ; pee" and chop the 
shallots. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the shallots, 
and fry a golden colour, stir in the curry powder and fry 
a few minutes longer stirring all the while, then add the 
rice and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend 
the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown 
sauce, cream and a little stock if necessary. Peel the 
tomato, cut it into dice and add also. Cook gently until 
the rice is tender, being careful that the rice is kept 
moistened, as it sweUs in cooking ; stir frequently but 
gently ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, 
and nutmeg. Dish up in pyramidal form or border 
shape, surround the base with slices of hard-boiled eggs, 
and a tuft of watercress between the slices of egg. 
Serve very hot. 

Risotto t ritalienne. 

i lb. best Italian rice, 2 oz. butter, 2 small onion, 2 oz. 
grated Parmesan cheese, |- pint tomato sauce, about i 
pint good stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg, \ teaspoonful 
powdered saffron. 

Pick and wash the rice in cold water, drain and 
dry it. Peel and mince finely the onion. Melt the 
butter in a stew-pan ; when hot add the onion, fry slowly 
until a light fawn colour, then add the rice ; shake the 
pan over the fire for a few minutes, so as to fry the rice 
a little. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron ; 
moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice 



54 Recherche Entrees. 

begins to swell. When the stock is used up, gradually 
add the sauce. When the rice is tender mix in the grated 
cheese. In preparing this dish remember that the rice 
should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor 
too moist. 

Have ready a large or several small buttered timbale 
moulds. Fill with the cooked rice and turn out quickly 
on to a hot dish. Pour a little tomato sauce round the 
base of the dish, and serve. 



Petits Cannelons au Florador. 

J lb. nouille paste (see page 62), 4 oz. florador or 
semolina, i oz. butter, i pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, 
I egg, 2 slices cooked ham or tongue, bread-crumbs, salt, 
pepper, frying fat or butter. 

Put the milk and butter in a stew-pan ; when boiling, 
sprinkle in the florador or semolina, stir and boil gently 
for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese and a pinch 
of salt and pepper to taste. Spread the mixture on a 
flat dish. Roll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it 
into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches 
long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, 
put a strip of ham or tongue in the middle of each, wet 
the edges a little and roll each piece neatly so that the 
paste completely envelops the mixture. Beat up the 
egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in bread- 
crumbs ; when dry, egg and crumb again ; fry in hot fat 
or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a napkin or lace 
paper. Garnish with parsley and serve. 



Kniokis k la Russe. 

4 oz. semolina or florador, | pint milk, J pint of rich 
white stock, | a bay -leaf, 2 eggs, \ pint b6chamel sauce, i 
oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. butter, bread-crumbs. 

Put the milk and stock into a stew-pan, and boil up 



Farinage Dishes. 55 

with the bay-leaf, stir in the semolina or florador, and 
stir continuously over the fire till boiling, then add the 
butter and 2 yolks of eggs, and continue to stir for a few 
minutes longer. Spread this on a buttered dish or 
baking dish, and let cool. Cut the mixture into rounds 
or ovals, and range them on a buttered fireproof dish 
Spread a layer of bechamel sauce and grated cheese 
between each, and coat the surface completely with 
sauce when finished dressing. Besprinkle with grated 
cheese and bread-crumbs, also a little oiled butter, and 
brown in the oven. Serve hot. 



Topinambours au Risotto. 
(Jerusalem Artichokes with Risotto.) 

4 oz. butter, i 02. onion minced, 6 oz. rice (well 
picked), I J pints white stock, 2 dessert-spoonfuls meat 
glaze or Lemco, i 02. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 lb. 
Jerusalem artichokes, i small truffle, chopped finely, 
J gill tomato pulp. 

Wash and peel the artichokes, put them in salted 
water acidulated with lemon juice for an hour, then 
cook them in seasoned water till tender. Drain well 
and toss them in butter, and keep them hot in a little 
stock enriched with meat glaze. Melt 3 oz. of butter 
in a stew-pan, fry in it the onions just long enough to 
blend, then add the rice. Stir for a few minutes over 
the fire without browning and add the stock. Boil 
gently for about 40 minutes, then stir in the remainder 
of the meat glaze, the tomato pulp, grated cheese, and 
the truffle. When sufficiently reduced, fill up a buttered 
border mould and turn it out on to a round dish. Dress 
the artichokes in the centre, pour over a little tomato 
or brown sauce, and serve. 



56 Recherche 'Entrees. 



A Selection of Fish Entrees, 



Timbale de Turbot Frascati. 

I lb. of turbot, I whiting, i giLl cream, 2 whites of eggs, 
\ gill of bechamel sauce, seasoning, \ pint of cooked 
asparagus points, \ gill of mayonnaise, truffles for 
decoration, Breteuil sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Remove the skin and bones from both fish, and pound 
till smooth in a mortar, adding the cream and the white 
sauce, also the seasoning, viz., salt, pepper, paprika, and 
nutmeg. When well pounded, rub all through a fine sieve. 
If found too stiff, add a little more cream. Whisk 
the whites of eggs, and mix thoroughly with the farce. 
Butter a plain timbale mould, and line it thickly with the 
prepared fish farce. Drain the asparagus points, and 
mix them carefully with the mayonnaise and the neces- 
sary seasoning. Put this in the centre of the mould, 
and fill up with the remainder of the fish farce. Cover 
the mould with buttered paper, and steam from 30 to 35 
minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and pour over with 
Breteuil sauce. Decorate the top of the timbale with 
asparagus or spinach puree, and fancifully cut slices of 
pimiento and truffle, and serve hot. 



Filets de Turbot, IsabsUe. 
(Fillets of Turbot, Isabel Style.) 

i| lb. turbot, I glass Sauterne, mirepoix (| a sliced 
onion, i bay -leaf, i oz. butter, i sliced carrot), fish stock 
made from fish bones, etc., i table-spoonful Lemco, salt 
and pepper, 6 oysters, 3 potatoes, and Italian potato 
border. 




CREMES DE FAISAN A L'liCAKLATE, (p. 24.) 




ZEPHIRES DE PERDREAUX, METROPOLE. (/J. l6j.) 




TARTELETTES DE EIS DE VEAU. 



iP. 16.) 



Fish Entrees. 57 

For Sauce. — i gill supreme or allemande, 2 egg yolks, 
oyster liquor, cream, fish stock, \ teaspoonful Lemco or 
meat glaze, | oz. fresh butter, seasoning. 

Bone the fish, and cut into neat portions, not too thin, 
removing the black skin. Place the pieces in a braising 
pan on a mirepoix made from above-named ingredients. 
Season with salt and pepper, moisten with the wine, and 
cover, then braise (white) adding a little fish stock, pre- 
viously made from the fish bones and skin, and then well 
reduced with the Lemco or meat glaze. When the 
pieces of turbot are sufficiently braised, take them up 
carefully, and keep hot. Prepare a neatly shaped 
border of marquise potato pur^e in an oval dish, and 
bake in the oven. Next prepare the sauce from above- 
given ingredients. Dress the turbot neatly in the dish, 
and sauce over carefully. Garnish with the oysters 
poached in stock, and cut in halves, also mushroom heads 
and small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. 
Arrange the former in groups, and the potatoes m a line 
in centre of dish. Serve hot, and hand remainder of 
sauce round separately. 



Italian Potato Border. (For above dish.) 

To 2 lb. of mashed potatoes add i oz. of butter. 
Season to taste and heat up over the fire, then stir in i 
whole egg, and 2 yolks well beaten, also |- gill of well 
reduced tomato puree. Fill into a large forcing bag with 
a rosette tube and force out in a neat border on a well 
buttered oblong dish. Brush over lightly with liquefied 
Lemco and very little stock or water. Bake in the oven 
till the substance is firm enough. 



M^daillons de Saumon k la Diplomate (Cold). 

I to i\ lb. salmon, i oz. butter, lemon juice, lobster 
farce, pink chaudfroid sauce, i cucumber, and a little 



58 Recherche Entrees. 

mayonnaise, aspic, chopped truiifles or pistachios for 
garnish, semolina border for dressing. 

Skin and bone the salmon, cut it into slices, about Jin. 
thick, flatten out evenly, and stamp out into rounds or 
ovals to the size of the paper cases (these must be of 
very flat shape) 

Arrange the salmon into a buttered saute-pan. Season 
with salt, pepper, and put a tiny piece of butter on the 
surface of each. Sprinkle with lemon juice. Cover with 
buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. When 
done, take up, place the slices carefully on a sieve, mix 
the lobster farce with a little cream and asp^c, just 
sufficient to bind, and spread one side of the salmon slices 
with it. Put them on a wire tray, and sauce over 
carefully with pink chaudfroid sauce. Besprinkle the 
edges' with chopped truffle or pistachio, place a star of 
truffle in centre of each, and coat them finally with a 
thin layer of aspic. Shred finely the peeled cucumber, 
mix with very little mayonnaise and whipped cream, 
salt, and paprika. Have ready a border made of savoury 
semolina, coated with pink chaudfroid sauce. Fill the 
centre with the seasoned cucumber and cream, dress the 
salmon slices on top of the border, garnish round the 
base of the dish with triangular slices of set aspic. The 
dish is then ready to serve. 



Petits Souffles de Saumon, Gauloise. 
(Cold Salmon Souffles.) 

J lb. cold cooked salmon, J large cucumber, | gUl 
bechamel sauce, i-| gills aspic jelly, 2 table-spoonfuls 
fish essence, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, \ gill cream, 
salt, pepper, paprika and nutmeg for seasoning, i truffle 
and chervil leaves for garnish. 

Peel and slice the cucumber and cut out 8 Jin. thick 
rings, blanch the remainder in salted water. Free the 



Fish Entrees. 59 

fish from skin and bones, put the latter into a stew-pan 
with one glass of claret, stock and usual vegetables and 
make into essence. 

Pound the salmon in a mortar, when fine enough, add 
the sauce and the remainder of the cucumber including 
the trimmings, which has been previously blanched in 
salted water and well drained. Put all through a fine 
sieve and incorporate about | gill of aspic and the fish 
essence, and anchovy essence ; then season to taste with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Whip the cream till stiff and 
stir into the above. 

Fill up 8 small china or silver-plated souffle cases, each 
provided with a paper band, and place them on the ice. 
When set, put a ring of cucumber on top of each souffle 
and fill the cavity with aspic flavoured with fish essence. 

To serve remove the paper bands, decorate the centre 
of each with a neatly cut slice of truffle and chervil 
leaves — then dish up and send to table. 



Z^phires de Crabes ^ la Royale (Cold). 

Remove the flesh from two crabs, flake a portion and 
use it for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till 
quite smooth, then add a gUl of bechamel sauce. Season 
with salt, pepper and aromatic spice, mix well, and rub 
through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic, and 
fill the mixture into small Savarin moulds, which have 
been previously masked with aspic and decorated with 
fine strips of truffles and strips of pimiento or red chilli 
skin. Place the little moulds on the ice for 2 hours, turn 
them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with 
the flaked crab flesh, decorate with lobster coral or 
chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of 
mayonnaise, whipped cream, a little French mustard, 
and a little grated horseradish. The sauce must be kept 
on the ice until required for table. 



6o Recherche Entrees. 

Roulettes de Sole a la Russe (Cold). 
(Rings of Sole with Artichoke and Caviare.) 

I small sole, 8 small artichoke bottoms, i jar of Astra- 
chan caviare, i lemon, \ 07. butter, \ glass white French 
wine (Chablis or Sauterne), aspic, salt, pepper and 
cayenne"^ lobster coral. 

Skin and fillet the sole, make fish stock with the bones 
and skin. Roll each fillet of sole round one or more well 
buttered wooden rolls. Place them in a buttered saute- 
pan, season to taste, add the wine, a little fish stock, and 
a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven for lo minutes. 

Take up the rolls, and when quite cold, carefully re- 
move the fillets, then cut each in two, so as to obtain 
eight lings in all. Scallop out the artichoke bottoms, 
and cut out some of the hara portion from the bottoms. 
Place them on the ice and coat with aspic. 

To serve, place a ring of fillet of sole in each artichoke 
bottom. Fill the centre with caviare, previously iced. 
Ornament the top with triangular-shaped thin slices of 
lemon and lobster coral. Dish up; garnish with parsley, 
place on a dish, surrounded with crushed ice. 



Filets de Sole Saint-Georges. 

2 soles, I gill picked shrimps, i gill lobster sauce, \ gill 
cream, 4 large potatoes, i small glass white wine (Chablis 
or Sauterne), i lemon, i 07. butter, seasoning, sauce 
Bercy. (See Sauces.) 

Skin and fillet the soles, roll up each fillet, cut side 
outwards round the end of a carrot, previously scraped 
and buttered. Place them carefully on to a buttered 
baking sheet or saut6-pan. Season with salt, pepper, 
and lemon juice, pour over the white wine, cover with 
buttered paper, and cook for 10 minutes in the oven. 
Wash and dry the potatoes, and bake them till quite soft 




CONCOMBRE FARCIE AGRASIENNE. 



(/>• 55.; 




MOUSSE DE JAMBON. FROID. 



(P.117.] 



Fish 'Entrees. 6i 

in the oven. Toss the shrimps in butter, then add the 
lemon juice, and the cream, lastly the lobster sauce, and 
re-heat. Cut the potatoes in halves. Scoop out some of 
the centre (soft) part, and put a little of the shrimp ragout 
in each. Slip off the fillets of sole, and fill them with the 
ragout, then place them in the potatoes. Re-heat, and 
dish up round a neatly cut croute of fried bread. Gar- 
nish with parsley and cut lemon. Serve hot with a boat 
of sauce B^rcv. 



Paupiettes de Sole h. la Royale. 

Skin 3 medium-sized soles, and remove the fiUets care- 
fully. Lay them in a dish with enough white wine 
(Chablis or Hock), and lemon juice to soak for an hour. 
Prepare a fish farce with 3 whiting and the needful 
quantity of cream and seasoning, mix with it some 
finely chopped lobster and lobster butter. Spread the 
fillets with this and roll them up. Range them on a 
buttered saute-pan and insert on top of each several 
prawns with a small round of truffle in the centre. 
Poach them carefully in the oven till done, then take up 
and dish up in the form of a crown on a small round of 
artichoke bottoms. 

Prepare a fish stock (clear) with the fish bones, season, 
strain and reduce with white wine and lemon juice. 
Add a few chopped tarragon leaves and 2 pats of fresh 
butter. Sauce over the fillets with this. Fill the centre 
of the dish with a ragout of mushroom heads and small 
lobster quenelles mixed with Cardinal sauce. Garnish 
the dish with fleurons. 



Filets de Sole ^ la Diane. 

2 small soles, Nouille paste, white wine, s*asoning, 
grated cheese, prawn puree, i truffle, veloute sauce, 
I 07. butter. 



62 Recherche Entrees. 

Prepare a nouille paste, made with 6 07. flour, i oz. 
butter, I egg yolk, salt, and a little milk. Knead it 
well, and roll out thinly, then stamp out a number of 
ovals, and line with these the required number of oval 
shaped fluted patty pans (flat). Bake them in a cool 
oven for about lo minutes. 

Skin and fillet the soles, poach them in the oven in a 
well buttered saute-pan with a little white wine, mush- 
room liquor, lemon juice and seasoning. Take them up 
and let cool, then trim each fillet to the size of the oval 
paste crusts. Heat up the prawn puree, and spread the 
bottom of each paste crust with it. Upon this place the 
fillets of sole, one on each. Sauce over carefully with 
well reduced veloute sauce, besprinkle with grated chesse 
and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about 5 
minutes. Decorate the top of each with a few fancifully 
cut slices of glazed truffle. Dish up tastefully and serve 
hot. 



Croustade de Homard. 
(Frosted Lobster Croustade.) 

I lb. puff paste, i large lobster, 2 whites and i yolk of 
eggs, i oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 shallots, i gill 
demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, i oz. butter, i teaspoon- 
ful anchovy essence, 6 mushroom slices, salt, cayenne or 
paprika pepper. 

Split the lobster, remove all the meat and cut into neat 
pieces, peel and chop the shallot, fry them to a golden 
colour in the butter ; then add the lobster and toss over 
the fire for a few minutes. Add the sherry, cover and 
let reduce a little, moisten with the sauce and the an- 
chovy essence, season with red pepper and salt, add the 
mushrooms, and keep hot. 

Roll out the paste about J of an inch thick, stamp out 
3 rounds about 5in. in diameter, place one on a baking 



Fish Entrees. 63 

sheet, carefully wet the edge, and place the two other 
rounds on top of the first, wetting the edge of the second 
piece. Take a 4^in. round cutter and cut out the cen- 
tre of the top layer of paste ; brush over carefully with 
beaten egg yolk, mark the edge of the paste with the 
point of a knife and bake the paste in a moderately- 
heated oven to a golden brown. When done, place on a 
dish. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, mix half 
the cheese and a pinch of paprika pepper. Put the 
lobster and some of the sauce in the centre of the baked 
case on the dish. Fill a forcing bag with the egg-froth, 
and force out the mixture neatly so as to cover com- 
pletely the whole of the lobster ragout, sprinkle over 
the remainder of the cheese, bake in a quick oven to 
brown the top. Dish up and serve quickly. 

Oysters and scallops may be done in the same manner, 
but when oysters are used, every care must to taken to 
prevent actual boiling. 



Barquettes de Pois3on k la Choisy. 
(Little Paste Crusts of Fish.) 

Prepare a paste with 6 oz. of flour, 3 oz. butter, i egg, 
and a pinch of salt. Roll in the butter the same as for 
puff paste, and give it 3 turns. 

Roll out the paste thinly, and line with it 10-12 small 
boat-shaped moulds. Prick the paste with a fork to 
prevent blisters ; fill the moulds with uncooked rice or 
peas, and bake to a golden brown. When baked, un- 
mould the shapes, and place them on a sieve to cool. 

Prepare a fish farce with i large or 2 small whitings, 
I egg, a little white sauce, and the necessary seasoning. 
With it shape little quenelles, round or oval, and poach 
them in fish stock. Cut into dice shapes 2 truffles, and 8 
preserved mushrooms, and put them with the fish 
quenelles in a stew-pan. Moisten with a rich white 
sauce (Supreme character), made with the help of stock 



64 'Recherche. 'Entrees. 

prepared from the fish trimmings, b6chamel, cream, and 
lemon juice, etc. Season with salt and cayenne, and 
keep hot. When ready for serving, fill the little boat 
shapes with the prepared salpicon and its sauce. Reheat 
them in the oven, then dish up, and place a neatly cut 
slice of truffle on top of each barquette. 



Cotelettes de Homard farcies Jl rAm§ricaine. 
(Stuffed Lobster Cutlets.) 

I lobster, 3 whitings, i gill cream, \ gill of well reduced 
tomato puree, a little fish essence, mixed with i table- 
spoonful of Lemco or meat glaze, 3 eggs, Panurette or 
bread-crumbs, seasoning, cooked rice for dressing, fried 
parsley, frying fat. 

Slit and crack the lobster, take out all the meat, and 
chop it (not too finely), mix it with half the sauce, heat it 
up thoroughly, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
put it in a plate to cool. 

Pound the whiting, previously freed from skin and 
bones. When smooth enough, add the cream and sea- 
soning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve ; this is 
the fish farce. 

Have ready 8 cutlet-shaped moulds well buttered. 
Mask the inside with a good layer of fish farce. Shape 
the lobster mixture into round pats of even size, place 
one in each mould with about a teaspoonful of tomato 
pru'ee, flavoured with the prepared fish essence. Cover 
the mixture with more fish farce and shape neatly. Steam 
them for about 30 minutes. When done, and half 
cold, unmould the shapes on to a cloth. Brush th?m 
over with beaten &%%, and roll in Panurette or bread- 
crumbs, then fry in hot fat to a golden colour, and drain. 
Insert a small piece of macaroni in the end of each to 
form the stalk. Dish up in pyramidal form on a bed of 
cooked rice, suitably seasoned. Garnish with sprigs of 
fried parsley and serve. 



XII. 







x^ 


.^ 




. — . 


---. 






d 


* 


#« 








^ 


J 


/% 


M 


m 




8 


1^^ 


^^ 


M 


^^u 


.1 


^ 


i^Xal^^^ 


1 




1 


^MI^^H 


^r 






'*mm 


^mm 


™^B| 


"* 


hS 


w^ 



CHAMPIGNONS A LA REINE. 



(/>. 48.) 




COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE, MELBA. {p. 13$-. 



Fish Entrees. 65 

Quenelles de Homard Bourgeoise. 

(Lobster Quenelles.) 

I small lobster, i oz. lobster butter, 2 small French 
rolls or milk bread, 3-4 yoiks of eggs, seasoning, i small 
whiting, bechamel sauce, a little milk. 

Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into small 
dice. Free the rolls from crust, and cut the soft part 
into slices, then soak in tepid milk. 

Skin and bone the whiting, pound the flesh in a mortar 
when fine, add one-third of the lobster, half the lobster 
butter, and the bread well squeezed, pound till quite 
smooth, then rub through a fine sieve. Season with salt, 
pepper and paprika, and incorporate 3-4 yolks of eggs, 
test the mixture, and if found too stiff, add a little 
cream. 

Butter a number of small fish-shaped entree moulds, 
and poach them in the ovsn in the usual way and keep 
hot. 

Toss the remainder of lobster meat in the lobster 
butter over a quick fire ; season and add 1-2 table- 
spoonfuls of bechamel sauce." Unmould the cooked 
quenelles and dress them in a circle on a hot dish. Put 
the lobster garniture in the centre and serve hot. 



Huitres au Jambon Dubarry. 
(Oyster and Ham, Dubarry Style.) 

18 oysters, \ lb. raw ham, J It. light chicken farce a 
few pistachios, white bread-crumbs, i egg, clarified 
butter for frying, i lemon, a croute of fried bread, tomato 
mayonnaise. (See Sauces.) 

Beard the oysters, and cut the ham into very thin 
slices Mix the chicken farce with a little cream, and a 
few chopped pistachio kernels. Spread over each 
oyster with the prepared farce, then wrap each carefully 
in a thin slice of ham. Dip the oysters thus prepared 



66 Recherche Entrees. 

into beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, or if preferred 
coat them with light frying batter. Fry them in clari- 
fied butter to a golden brown, and drain well on paper or 
a cloth. Fix the bread croiite in the centre of a round 
flat dish, and insert on top a fancifully cut lemon filled 
with sprigs of watercress. Then fasten the fried oysters 
on little silver skewers, allowing two for each, put one in 
the centre top of croiite, and the remainder round the 
croute. Decorate with slices or quarters of lemon and 
watercress, and serve hot with the tomato mayonnaise, 
which must be handed round separately. 



Huitres en Gel6e h la Russe (Cold). 
(Jellied Oysters, Russian Style.) 
Open 12 oysters, free them from the beard, and blanch 
the oysters in their own liquor. Drain and let cool on a 
sieve ; clarify the oyster liquor and mix with J a pint of 
fish aspic, flavoured with a little white wine. Clean the 
lower (deep) oyster shells, coat each oyster with aspic, 
and place them in the prepared shells. On the centre of 
each oyster put about a teaspoonful of fresh Astrachan 
Caviare, and farce out a neat (thin) border of finely 
chopped aspic round the base of each oyster. Dish up, 
garnish the dish with fancifully cut slices of lemon and 
sprigs of parsley, and keep on the ice tilL required for 
table. 



VoI-au-Vent t la Chambord. 
(Fish Vol-au-Vent.) 

I lb. puff paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles (sliced), 6 
mushrooms (sliced), i8 small fish quenelles (poached), 
12 oysters (blanched and bearded), \ pint of Gdnoise 
sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Make the puff paste in the usual way, give it six turns. 
Roll out to about J of an inch in thickness, cut it out the 
desired size of the vol-au-vent (round or oval), turn the 



Fish Entrees. 67 

paste over on to a wetted baking sheet, brush the top 
over with beaten egg.make a circular incision (to form the 
Hd), about \ of an inch deep. This is best done with a 
large round paste cutter or a sharp pointed knife. Bake 
the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked, re- 
move the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush 
the inside of the crust with egg and put back into the 
oven for a few minutes longer. 

Prepare the garniture consisting of the crayfish tails, 
and warm up in the sauce, let it cook slowly for five 
minutes. 

The quenelles are made with i skinned and boned 
whiting, pounded and sieved, and mixed with the white 
of I egg, I table-spoonful of bechamel sauce, and \ gill 
of cream ; season and shape and poach. 

Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, fill with the 
garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, 
and serve hot. 



Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise. 
(Haddock Timbale, Milanese Style.) 

4-6 spaghetti, 2 oz. butter, i whiting, i small smoked 
haddock, 6 mushrooms, i gih picked shrimps, i gill 
cream, i egg, salt and pepper, tomato sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Cook the spaghetti in fast boiling salted water till 
tender, then drain them and spread them on a cloth. 
Weh butter one or two bomb-shaped moulds (plain), and 
line the inside with the spaghetti.beginning at the centre 
of the bottom of mould, and coil the spaghetti round and 
round till the side of the mould is completely covered. 
Brush over with soft butter, and stand on the ice 
till required. Prepare a fish farce by pounding the 
skinned and boned whiting, when smooth, add the cream, 
the white of egg, and 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced white 



68 'Recherche Entrees. 

sauce, season to taste and rub through a fine sieve. 
Spread the inside of the mould with a little of this farce. 
Cook the haddock with the anchovy and butter in the 
oven for lo minutes, then remove the skin and bones, and 
chop the meat finely. Melt the remainder of butter in a 
stew-pan, put in the above, also the mushrooms pre- 
viously cut into fine shreds, and the shrimps. Mix well, 
season to taste, and add the rest of the fish farce and egg 
yolks. Fill up the prepared mould with this and steam 
for about half an hour. Dish up, and serve with hot 
tomato sauce enriched with a little fresh cream. 



Chartreuse d'Eperlan a la Mand6. 
(Chartreuse of Smelts.) 

Fish Farce. — i lb. whiting, free from skin and bone, 
also the fiUets of 9 large smelts, 2 whites of eggs, i gill of 
cream, and seasoning. 

Pound the fish farce ingredients in a mortar with 3 
boneless smelts, tiU quite smooth, then work in the egg 
whites, season and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on 
the ice for i hour, and add the whipped cream last. 

Having prepared the fish farce as directed w^rk in a 
table-spoonful of Lemco diluted with 2 table-spoonfuls of 
fish stock, then test its consistency in boiling wateror 
stock. 

Fillet the remaining 6 smelts, butter a plain chartreuse 
mould, and line the sides with the fillets of smelts, 
placing them in a slanting position, and put the mould on 
the ice for an hour or so. Fill the prepared mould with 
the fish farce. This must be done well but carefully, so 
as not to disturb the small fillets. Poach on top of the 
stove or in the oven, covered with a buttered paper for 
about 40 minutes. 

Unmould the shape carefully on to a hot dish. Pour 
over a well made rich " Sauce Mand6 " (see Sauces), and 
serve. 



Xlil. 




TOURNEDOS DE ECEUF A LA ST. JE 



AN. (p. 96.) 




XOPINAMBOURS AU RISOTTO. 



(/>• 54.) 



69 



Entrees of Veal. 



Escalopes de Veau Farcis aux C6pes. 
(Farced Veal Fillets with C6pes.) 

About 2 lb. of fillet of veal, 3 oz. clarified butter, 4 oz. 
pork, 4 oz. beef marrow, i oz. anchovy paste, 2 yolks of 
eggs, I teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, J pint pre- 
served c6pes, I gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, and 
bread-crumbs. 

Trim the veal, cut it into 8-10 even-sized scallops, beat 
each with a cutlet bat, aud shape neatly. 

Put 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the 
scallops, and fry over a quick fire to a light brown colour. 
As the meat will be cooked again, the frying process 
should be done quickly without actually cooking the 
meat through. Press the meat between two weighted 
boards, and keep thus until cold. 

Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound in a 
mortar, when fine add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, 
egg yolks, and ^ an ounce of butter. Pound thoroughly 
till smooth. Season with pepper and salt, and rub 
through a fine sieve. Coat one side of each fillet thickly 
with this farce. Put them in a buttered saute-pan, 
cover over with a few fried bread-crumbs, besprinkle 
with oiled butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes. 

Drain the cepes, slice them and toss them in a little 
butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace 
sauce, and cook for ten minutes. 

Range the fillets in a circle on a hot entree dish, put 
the cepes ragoiit in the centre, and serve. 



70 Recherche Entrees. 

Chartreuse de Veau h la Cr6cy (Cold). 
(Small Veal Fillets with Young Carrots.) 

I lb. lean veal, freed from skin and sinews, i small 
bunch new carrots, scraped and cooked, J pint aspic, 
I oz. meat glaze, i glass Marsala, 3 sheets gelatine, 
chopped parsley, i oz. butter, i lemon, 2 truffles, i 
pimiento or beetroot for garnish, i gill Espagnole, cocks' 
combs and kernels, oil, vinegar, seasoning. 

Cut the veal into rather thin slices of even size, and 
trim into cutlet shapes or small fillets. Streak them 
with semi-circles of truffle slices graduated in size, and 
carefully place them in a saute-pan containing \ ounce of 
melted butter, season carefully with salt and pepper, 
and sprinkle over the juice of a lemon. Poach them thus 
in the oven, covered with buttered paper. When done, 
take up, drain and let cool. Next mask them well with 
aspic. Place a cylindrical or cone mould in a pan of 
crushed ice, coat the inside and bottom with a layer of 
aspic, and decorate the sides with an even chain of 
rounds of slices of truffle, pimientos and carrot, alter- 
nating the colours. When quite set, dip the decorated 
fillets of veal in half-set aspic, and range them round the 
sides of the mould. Heat up the sauce and reduce with 
the meat glaze and the wine, season to taste, and strain 
in the gelatine, previously soaked and melted, also a 
little aspic ; let cool. To this add sufficient cocks' 
combs and kernels, the trimmings of truffles, and a few 
sliced cooked carrots, to fill the mould. Leave it on the 
ice to set for about an hour. 

Prepare a salad with the carrots, left whole or cut into 
quarters, to which a little shredded beetroot or pimiento 
can be added. Mix with oil and vinegar, add salt and 
pepper to taste, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley. 

Unmould the shape on to a cold entree dish, range the 
salad neatly into the centre cavity, decorate with a few 
sprigs of cress or endive, and serve. 



Entrees of Veal. 71 

Ris de Veau d. la Biarritz (Cold). 
(Sweetbread, Biarritz Style.) 

2 medium-sized heart sweetbreads, 3-4 slices fat 
bacon, i bouquet garni, i carrot, i onion, ^ oz. butter, 
I pint well reduced veal or chicken stock, i gill tomato 
sauce, ^ pint velout6 sauce, J gUl aspic jelly, \ gill white 
wine, ^ oz. gelatine, i truffle, 1-2 red chillies or pimiento, 
4 07. best rice for socle, pepper and salt. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, i.e., place them in a stewpan 
with enough cold water to cover, add a little salt, and let 
boil ; strain off the water and allow cold water to run over 
freely. Wash and trim them where necessary (removing 
any skin or sinews), and put them under press. Cut the 
carrot and onion into slices. Put the butter in a deep 
saute or braising pan, cover the bottom with a layer of 
the vegetables (mirepoix), and the bouquet of herbs, put 
the sweetbreads on top, season with pepper and salt, 
cover with the slices of bacon, moisten with the stock and 
wine, and cook in a moderate oven from 30 to 35 minutes; 
baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. 
When cooked, take up and let cool. Warm up the 
tomato and velout^ sauce, add to it the strained liquor 
from the sweetbreads ; dissolve the gelatine in a little 
water or stock, and strain into the sauce, which should be 
of a pale pink colour. (A few drops of liquid carmine or 
cochineal may be added if found necessary.) Strain the 
sauce into a basin, and put in a cool place. Cut the 
sweetbreads into quarter-inch thick slices, mask each side 
with the above sauce as it becomes consistent enough to 
coat. Decorate one side of each slice with^fancifuUy cut 
strips of truffle and slices of pimiento or chilli skin (crown 
or star shapes are most effective), fix the garnish with 
aspic, and when set, mask over the whole with a thin 
layer of aspic jelly. Have ready a socle or flat border of 
cooked rice, coat it with the remainder of sauce and aspic, 



72 Recherche Entrees. 

and place it in the centre of a cold dish (silver plated). 
Range the prepared slices of sweetbread neatly on the 
socle, garnish with small salad and serve. 

Socle of Rice for Cold Entries. 

Wash some Carolina rice in several waters, put it in a 
well tinned stewpan, with about three times its quantity 
of cold water, heat up slowly and bring to the boil, then 
cook at the side of the stove, or in the oven gradually 
until the rice is done ; the liquid should by this time be 
almost absorbed in the rice. Pound it in a mortar whilst 
warm until it has the appearance of a smooth paste. 
Add a little salt and lemon juice to flavour, and press into 
a wetted plain flat mould. Set the mould in the ice for 
2-3 hours. To unmould it, immerse the mould in hot 
water, turn out, and carve the side with a sharp knife to 
give it a more artistic appearance. Dress and use as 
required. 



Z§phires de Ris de Veau h la Harlequin (Cold). 
(Sweetbread Z6phires.) 

Line 6-8 small oval Zephir moulds of suitable shape 
with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the bottom of each 
with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg in shape and 
pattern of mosaique or diamonds. When set, mask the 
inside of the moulds completely with a layer of aspic 
cream. When this is fairly firm, nearly fill the 
moulds with cube-shaped pieces of cold braised 
sweetbread, shredded lean ham, green peas and 
truffle, the latter also cut in shreds. Before being 
put into the moulds, moisten the mixture carefully with 
mayonnaise. Next a good layer of aspic cream on top, 
so as to completely fill each mould, which are then placed 
on the ice, and allowed to set. When required for table, 
unmould them carefully, range the shapes round a neatly 



Entrees of Veal. 73 

decorated foie-gras mousse placed in the centre of a 
round entree dish, which is then ready to serve. 

The Foie-gras Mousse is made with 6 07. best foie gras 
pounded with 2 07. of cooked ham or tongue, sieved and 
mixed with i gill aspic, and \ gill of whipped cream. It 
is then seasoned with aromatics, and whisked over the 
ice till half set, and subsequently poured into a prepared 
bombe mould. 

To prepare the latter, mask the inside of a bombe or 
colonne mould with a thin layer of aspic, and decorate 
with long triangular cut slices of truffle, and hard- 
boiled white of egg or tongue, arranged alternately so as to 
effect a harmonising and symmetrical design. Now coat 
the decorated part with a thin layer of mayonnaise or 
aspic cream, and when set, fill up the mould with the 
prepared mousse mixture. 



Ris de Veau ^ la du Barry. 

Blanch and trim a pair of large, firm sweetbreads, and 
put them under v/eight. Lard them and braise in the 
usual manner. Cook, in the meantime, a large cauU- 
flower in salted water, drain it and divide it into small 
flowerets or buds. Heat this up in a well prepared 
HoUandaise sauce. 

To Dress. — Cut the sweetbread into scallops and 
arrange them on a hot dish in the form of a border with 
alternate slices of cooked ox-tongue. To the liquor of 
the sweetbread add a sufficiency of Madeira sauce, 
reduce, skim and strain over the dressed sweetbread. 
Arrange the cauliflower in centre of the dish and serve 
hot. 

Ris de Veau t la Brandimbourg. 
(Sweetbreads with Chestnut Purfie.) 
Blanch a pair of heart sweetbreads, trim them and 
place them under press till cold. Lard them neatly by 



74 Recherche 'Entrees. 

inserting small strips of larding bacon. Line a braising 
pan with slices of onion and carrot, add an ounce of butter, 
and fry lightly without browning. Place the larded 
sweetbreads on top, moisten with half a pint of seasoned 
gravy or consomra6 stock, a glass of Marsala or a dessert- 
spoonful of meat glaze. Cover with a piece of buttered 
paper and cook in the oven for about 35 minutes, basting 
frequently. 

When done, remove the sweetbreads, take the fat off 
the liquor and reduce the latter to a half glaze. Strain 
this into another stew-pan and put in the sweetbreads to 
keep hot till required. Prepare a chestnut puree, put 
it in a forcing bag and force out a pretty border on to an 
oval dish. Let it set in the oven for a few minutes. 
Dress the sweetbreads in the centre of the border and 
serve with Madere sauce. 



Chestnut Pur6e. 

Boil a pound of large chestnuts for about 20 minutes ; 
remove shell and peel (the brown pith), boil again in a 
little stock, and when quite tender rub through a fine 
wire sieve. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten 
with very little brown sauce or rich stock. 



Escalopes de Ris de Veau. 

(Fried Sweetbread Cutlets.) 
Wash and blanch a sweetbread, then trim it by re- 
moving the pipes and fatty portion. Put it in a buttered 
saut4-pan with a few slices of carrot, \ a sliced onion, \ a 
bay-leaf, and a gill of stock. Season with salt and pepper, 
cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for 
about half an hour or till tender. Take up and press till 
cold. Have ready a light frying batter made with 4 oz. 
flour, I egg, a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of olive oil 



Entrees of Veal. 75 

and a little tepid water, let it stand after it is well beaten. 
Cut the sweetbread into slices, coat each slice with a 
lightly seasoned white sauce, then dip in the frying batter 
so as to completely coat the meat. Drop the slices one by 
one into very hot fat, fry to a golden colour, drain, dish 
up, and serve with tomato or piquante sauce. 



Ris de Veau h la St. Michel (Cold). 
(Sweetbread, St. Michel Style.) 

2 heart sweetbreads, i terrine foie gras (size No. 10), 
2 truffles, mirepoix, etc., 8 cooked artichoke bottoms, 
blonde chaudfroid sauce, macedoine of vegetables, may- 
onnaise, aspic, and seasoning. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, trim and pare them, and press 
them in the usual way. Insert some strips of bacon, and 
braise them with a mirepoix, etc. When done let cool, 
and cut each in two lengthwise. Stamp out as many 
rounds of sweetbread as there are artichoke bottoms, and 
as near as possible to the size of the latter. Incorporate 
the essence of sweetbread with the chaudfroid sauce, and 
mask the rounds of sweetbread with the sauce, as it cools. 
Stamp out some round slices of foie gras somewhat 
smaller than the sweetbread, place these in the centre of 
the latter, and coat them also with chaudfroid sauce. 
Trim the artichoke bottoms, season them with aspic 
flavoured with lemon juice, place the sweetbreads on 
these, stamp out star-shaped slices of truffle and put one 
on each of the slices of foie gras. Mask the whole well 
with half-set aspic and dish up in a circle on a round 
dish. Season the macedoine of vegetables with a little 
mayonnaise and aspic and arrange in the shape of a 
dome in the centre of the dish. Garnish suitably and 
serve. 



76 Recherche Entrees. 

Ris de Veau a la ChevaliSre. 

(Braised Sweetbread, Chevaliere Style.) 

Blanch and trim a pair of sweetbreads, press them, and 
then lard with strips of fat bacon, tongue and truffles ; 
arrange these in alternate rows. 

Place them on a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, onion, bou 
quet garni, etc.), moisten with a glass of Madeira wine 
and white stock. Braise the sweetbreads in this manner, 
taking care that the surface does not take colour, i.e., 
get brown. When done, cut each slantways into 4 or 5 
slices, replace to original shape and dress on fried bread 
croiitons. Garnish the dish with preserved mushroom 
heads (champignons), small glazed truffles, and cocks' 
combs, fill the centre of the dish with a delicate ragout of 
small chicken quenelles, and sauce over the sweetbreads 
with a well prepared supreme sauce. To improve the 
dish further, 2 or 3 silver skewers, each replete with 
a very small tomato, truffle, and champignons, should 
be inserted into the sweetbreads. 



VoI-au-Vent aux Quenelles de Veau. 
(Vol-au-Vent ol Veal Quenelles.) 

Prepare and bake a vol-au-vent crust using i lb. of 
puff paste, when baked remove the lid, scoop out some 
of the soft inside portion and keep hot. Mince and 
pound in a mortar i lb. lean veal, adding 2 eggs and | gill 
cream. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. When 
smooth enough rub through a fine sieve and make up the 
mixture into very small quenelles by means of a tea or 
dessert-spoon. Poach them in stock or salted water, 
drain and heat up in a rich white sauce. Fill the 
vol-au-vent crust with this, cover with its lid and dish up. 



XIV 




MOUSSE DE CHAPON, BELLE HELENE. (p. II9.) 




ZEPHIRES DE RIS d'aGNEAU HARLEQUIN. {p. 28.) 



Entrees of Veal. 'J'J 

Timbale de Veau h la Cardinal. 
(Veal Timbale, Cardinal Style.) 

ij lb. lean veal, salt and pepper, 12 prawns, i oz. cray- 
fish butter, 2 oz. ox-tongue, i oz. butter, i shallot, i new 
kidney potato, 3 whites of eggs, i pimiento, i^ gills 
veloute sauce, | gill cream, 6 mushrooms, lobster coral 
or spawn, 8 fleurons, i hatelet. 

Free the meat from sldn and sinews. Cut one -fourth 
of it into fine shreds, and pound the remainder in a 
mortar till smooth, adding to it by degrees the whites of 
eggs and a little cream. Work in enough lobster coral 
or spawn to give the farce a pink tint. Season well with 
salt, pepper and aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. 
Butter a timbale mould, and spread the inside thickly 
with the farce. Keep on the ice till wanted. With the 
shredded veal make a Hungarian Goulash (see page 86) . 
Fry the meat in butter with a blended chopped shallot ; 
add the tongue, cooked potato (cut in dice and fried), 
pimiento, and mushroom, all cut into dice, also 8 of the 
prawn tails, and moisten with a little velout6 sauce. Put 
this mixture into a coated mould and fill up with the re- 
mainder of the farce. Poach for 45 minutes. Prepare 
a rich sauce with the veloute and crayfish butter. 
Unmould the timbale on a hot dish, sauce over carefully, 
and surmount the shape with the remaining 4 prawns, 
and insert a small hatelet in the centre. Garnish with 
puff paste fleurons and serve. 



Timbale de Ris de Veau k la Reine (Cold). 
(Cold Sweetbread Timbale.) 

I cooked sweetbread, braised or boiled, i truffle, 3 oz. 
cooked ham, lean, 8 preserved mushrooms, i slice ox- 
tongue, J pint aspic jelly, i^ gills aspic cream, i dessert- 
spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, seasoning, h glass sherry. 



78 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Line or mask a plain charlotte mould with a thin 
layer of aspic jelly, and decorate the sides and bottom 
with thin slices of tongue and truffle as shewn in the 
illustration. Cut the sweetbread into cube shapes, the 
ham and the remainder of tongue and the mushrooms 
into fine strips, put these in a basin and pour over the 
wine, also a little aspic made liquid and mixed with the 
meat glaze. Now mask the inside of the prepared 
mould with a coating of aspic cream. Mix the remainder 
of aspic cream with an equal quantity of aspic jeUy and 
pour over the sweetbread, etc. Stir this gently on the 
ice. When it begins to set, fiU the mould with it, and 
allow the shape to set on the ice. To serve, immerse 
the mould in warm water for a few seconds and turn out 
quickly on to a cold dish. Chop some set aspic jelly, 
and put a little round the base of the dish for table. 
It is then ready. 



Filets de Veau a la Garibaldi. 
(Fillets ol Veal, Garibaldi Style.) 

ij lb. fillet of veal, i to 2 shallots, 2 07. butter, i gill 
veloute sauce, i glass Chablis, \ lb. short crust paste, 
\ lb. spaghetti (cooked), \ oz. grated cheese, i small 
lobster, \ gill cardinale sauce, 2 truffles, seasoning. 

Cut the fillet of veal into rather thin slices, flatten each 
and cut into small heart shapes. Line a flan mould with 
the paste, prick the bottom, fill with dried peas or rice, 
and bake a golden brown. Unmould, and let cool. Melt 
the butter, fry in it the shallot (chopped finely), a pale 
colour, put in the \'eal, and cook over a quick fire for a 
few minutes ; pour off the butter, add the wine, reduce 
a little and moisten with the sauce veloute (seasoned). 
Cook gently for ten minutes. Cut the meat of the 
lobster into small dice, and heat up in the cardinale 
sauce,'season to taste. Heat up the spaghetti in a little 



'Entrees of Veal. 79 

white sauce, add the cheese and seasoning. Cut the 
truffle into thin shces, allow one for each veal Met, chop 
the remainder, and mix with the spaghetti. Fill the 
paste crust with the latter, dress the veal fillets in the 
form of a crown, place a slice of truffle (glazed) on each 
fillet, and arrange the ragout of lobster neatly in the 
centre of the dish. Dish up, and put it in a sharp oven 
for a few minutes, then serve. 



Cotes de Veau k la Marguerite (Cold). 

(Veal Slices 4 la Marguerite.) 

I lb. young lean veal (fillet), 2 carrots, i turnip, i onion, 

a bouquet garni, seasoning, aspic, i truffle, tarragon 

leaves, a mirepoix, ^ lemon, i oz. butter, white chaud- 

froid sauce, 2 eggs, celery and ham for garnish. 

Cut the veal into fairly thin fiUets or sHces, flatten and 
trim them a little, and range them into a saut^-pan well, 
buttered and containing the mirepoix, which must be 
cut small. Put the butter, melted, over the top, season 
to taste, and set to cook quicldy. Cover the pan with 
the lid, and cook in the oven for about 20 minutes, then 
add the juice of | a lemon, and continue to cook till the 
meat is tender. Take up the slices and place them under 
press tiU cold, then cut them into neat rounds or ovals. 
Coat each with chaud-froid sauce, which must be richly 
flavoured with veal essence and cream. Cook the 
white of eggs in a timbale mould, and when cold cut up 
into slices, then shape each like a marguerite, with a dot 
of truffle in the centre of each. Place them in the centre 
of the oval fillets, also tarragon leaves, and a thin strip of 
cucumber rind to form the stalk. Coat the whole with 
aspic. Dress on a dish containing a layer of set aspic, 
and garnish with heaps of finely shredded and seasoned 
celery and ham. 



8o Recherche Entrees. 

Filets de Veau h la Madeleine. 
'{Veal Fillets k la Madeleine.) 
About 2 lb. fillet of veal, 3 07. clarified butter, 3 oz. 
fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, i shallot, 2 oz. meat* 
glaze, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of tarragon, a sprig of 
chervil, a sprig of chive, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 doz. 
new kidney potatoes, salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne, 
8 fried bread croutes (size of fillets). 

Choose the veal of prime quality (pale pink and tender) 
cut it into eight even-sized slices of about a quarter of a 
pound each, beat them a little with the cutlet bat and trim 
neatly. Prepare the same number of bread croutons, 
about the size of the fillets, fry them in clarified butter 
and drain. 

Warm up the nieat glaze in a small stewpan, work it 
with a small whisk, add gradually i oz. fresh butter, 
stir vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance 
adding in the meantime the lemon juice, one finely 
chopped shallot, previously blended in butter, also the 
tarragon, parsley, chervil, and chive all finely chopped. 
Season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. 

Parboil the cleaned kidney potatoes, drain them weU, 
and fry them in butter to a nice light yellow, season with 
salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne. When done, 
sprinkle over with a little finely chopped parsley. Put 
2 ounces of butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the 
fillets, let them brown on one side, then turn and let 
brown the other side over a quick fire. Season a little, 
dish upon the croutons. Place them on a round dish, 
put the potatoes in the centre or round the fillets in a 
row. Put a dessert-spoonful of the prepared sauce on 
each fillet, sprinkle over a few drops of meat glaze, and 
serve quickly. 



Entrees of Veal. 8i 

Cdtelettes de Veau a la Parisienne. 

(Veal Cutlets, Pari^ienne Style.) 

2 lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 oz. butter or olive oil, 

2 shallots, I glass sherry, i| gills Madeira sauce, \ lemon, 

2 table-spoonfuls cream, 8 croutons fried bread, parsley, 

fried or baked potato balls for garnish, seasoning. 

Trim the meat and divide it into 8 or 9 even-sized 
cutlets, flatten, trim each neatly, and season with pepper 
and salt. Put the butter or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive 
oil into a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, fry 
them over a quick fire on both sides, drain the fiUets and 
put them on a plate. Pour off most of the fat in the 
saute-pan, add two peeled finely chopped shallots, fry 
them a little and dilute with a small glass of sherry, then 
add rather more than a gill of Madeira sauce, boil for a 
few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne or paprika, a few 
drops of lemon juice and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, stir well and work in the cream. Return the 
fillets and heat up carefully, but do not let it boil again. 
Dress the fillets in a circular row on a hot dish, placing a 
heart-shaped slice of fried bread crouton between each 
fillet. Fill the centre of the dish with small round potatoes 
(Pommes de terre Parisienne), sprinkle over a little 
finely chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce 
over the fillets and serve. 



Pommes de Terre Parisienne. 

Wash and peel i lb. of potatoes, scoop them with a 
vegetable cutter into small balls, blanch them carefully 
in salted water and drain them. Melt two ounces of 
clarified butter in a saute-pan ; when this is hot, put in 
the potatoes and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, 
season with salt, then bake them in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

F 



82 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Cotelettes de Veau k la Br6tagne. 

(Veal Cutlets, Brittany Style.) 

Divide a small neck of veal into chops, trim and pare 
them like cutlets, and season with salt and pepper. Rub 
each side of the cutlets with a cut lemon, then dip in 
beaten egg and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them 
over a brisk fire in clarified butter in a saute-pan. When 
done and of a nice colour, drain and dish up round a bed 
of haricot bean puree, pour a little gravy or demi-glace 
sauce round the base of the dish and serve. 



Grenadins de Veau. 

(Veal Grenadins.) 

2 lb. cushion or fillet part of veal, \ lb. larding bacon 
(cut into strips), i shallot, 2 oz. butter, \ glass sherry, 
\ pint tomato sauce, seasoning, mashed potatoes, \ 
pint green peas or beans. 

Cut the meat into round or oval slices, about \ of an 
inch thick, flatten each a little with a cutlet bat, dipped 
in cold water, and pare them into, neat shapes. Insert 
strips of larding bacon by means of a larding 
needle in rows on top of each fillet or grenadin. 
Season with pepper and salt and fry a golden 
colour on both sides in butter. Take up the meat, 
peel and chop the shallot and fry a pale brown in the 
butter left in the pan in which the grenadins were 
fried, pour off some of the fat, add the sherry, reduce a 
little and lastly add the sauce. Lay in the grenadins 
and allow to simmer gently for about 20 minutes. Dress 
the grenadins on a neatly shaped border of mashed 
potatoes, on a hot dish. Fill the centre with cooked and 
heated green peas or French beans cut small, pour the 
sauce round the base of the dish and serve. 



Entrees of Veal. 83 

TSte de Veau en'Tortue. 
(Calf's Head en Tortue.) 

Blanch half a calf's head, from which the brain 
has been removed, and soak the latter in cold 
water, then blanch it also. Put the head in a 
stewpan containing enough water to well cover it, add 
a small handful of salt and boil up, then skim, add 
I carrot, i peeled onion stuck with 2 cloves, i turnip, a 
small bouquet of herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaf. 
Allow the head to cook gently for about 2| to 3 hours, 
when done, take up and let cool a little, then remove the 
meat from the bones, return the latter to the stewpan 
with more water and continue to boil for stock. Cut the 
meat of the calf's head into conveniently sized pieces, put 
them in a stew or braising pan, with a glass of sherry, 
I pint of brown (demi-glace) sauce, i gill of stock, 10 
preserved mushrooms and 1-2 sliced truffles. Allow the 
whole to cook gently for another half-hour, skim 
occasionally and dish up neatly on a hot dish. Garnish 
the dish with the brain, fried yolks of eggs (fried in 
olive oil), or hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, pickled 
gherkins, and fried croutons of bread, brushed over 
with meat glaze. In dishing, place the ear portion in 
the centre of the dish, arrange the decorative edibles as 
neatly as possible, because they add so much to the 
success of this dish. 

Note. — With the remainder of meat and the stock, a 
good mock- turtle soup may be prepared. 



Pieds de Veau ^ I'Horly. 
(Fried Calf's Feet, Horly Style.) 

I pair calf's feet, i carrot, i onion, \ oz. flour, \ gill 

vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, veloutd sauce for 

coating, i egg, bread-crumbs, or frying batter, fat for 

frying, tomato sauce. 



84 Recherche Entrees. 

Wash and scald the calf's feet. Bone the upper part 
and remove the shank bone. SHt them in two, and steep 
in cold water for one or two hours, then blanch them in 
salted water. 

Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or stock to 
well cover. Add the carrot and onion sliced, and a few 
peppercorns. Cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove 
the bones, place the meat under press, and let cool. 
Next cut into convenient-sized oblong pieces. 

Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley. Pour this over the pieces, and let soak 
for an hour. Drain the pieces of calf's feet and coat 
with veloute sauce. Dip each piece into egg, crumb or 
drop into a light frying batter, then fry in hot fat a 
golden brown, drain, dish up and serve with hot tomato 
sauce. 



Paupiettos de Veau k la Jardiniere. 
(Veal Rolls with Mixed Vegetables.) 

Cut six or more thin slices from the cushion part of 
veal, flatten each and trim a little. Next spread one side 
of each with veal forcemeat. Roll the slices so as to give 
each the shape of a cork. Tie round each a thin slice of 
fat bacon, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with 
pepper, salt and a little aromatic spice. Add a small 
sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, and a pint of white 
stock. Boil up quickly over the fire, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for about half an hour. 
Baste occasionally. 

Drain the paupiettes, remove string and bacon fat, 
and trim each a little. Free the gravy from fat, reduce 
it well, and add a gill of AUemande or velout6 sauce. 
Strain the sauce over the paupiettes, and keep hot. 
Have ready a mixture of cooked buds of cauliflower, 




PLUVIERS A LA MARIANNE. 



(p. 169.: 




BOMBE DE VOLAILLE, TRIANON. {p. I35.) 



Entrees of Veal. 85 

carrot and turnip scooped out into small shapes, also 
some green peas and French beans. Toss them lightly 
in a little butter over the fire. Arrange a bed of potato 
pur6e on a dish, dress the paupiettes in pyramid form on 
this, sauce over with the sauce well reduced, surround 
with groups of jardiniere of vegetables on each side, 
sprinkle the top with a few drops of dissolved meat 
glaze, and serve hot. 



Veal Forcemeat for Paupiettes. 

Chop very finely half-pound of cooked veal. Soak in 
tepid water quarter-pound white bread, drain the bread 
well, mix with it a whole egg, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and half a small onion finely chopped (previously 
boiled), mix well, season with pepper, salt, and a little 
grated nutmeg, and stir in a little cream or gravj'. Use 
as directed. 



Queues de Veau a la Russe. 
(Calves' Tails, Russian Style.) 
2 or 3 calves' tails, i glass Chablis wine, i J pints stock, 

1 clove garlic, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme and i basil, 

2 cloves, I small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying 
batter and frying lard, tomato sauce. 

Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small 
joints, then blanch and drain them, cook till tender in the 
stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, 
parsley, etc., season to taste. Allow them to cool in the 
stock, chop a little parsley and mix with the frying batter. 
Drain the pieces of tail on a cloth, dip them in the pre- 
pared batter and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. 
Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with 
hot tomato sauce. 



86 RechercM Entrees. 

Blanquette de Veau. 
(White Veal Stew.) 

if lb. to 2 lb. cushion or fillet of veal, 2 oz. butter, i oz. 
flour, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 10 small 
button onions, i bouquet of parsley, thyme and marjoram, 
J gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, seasoning. 

Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stew- 
pan with sufficient hot water to cover, add a good pinch 
of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, 
and remove the scum. Now add the bouquet of herbs, 
and the onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook 
gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and re- 
move the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, 
stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, 
but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, 
boil up, skim, cook for ten minutes. Now add cream and 
egg yolks, and strain over the cooked veal. Add the 
mushrooms cut in halves or slices, reheat, without letting 
it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with 
fleurons, and serve hot. 



Goula'sh de Veau k la Hongroise. 
(Hungarian Veal Goulash.) 

I J lb. lean veal, | lb. cooked new potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 
I small onion, i pint cream, paprika, pepper and salt. 

Free the meat from skin and sinews and cut it into 
dice-like pieces. Cut the potatoes into cubes. Melt the 
butter in a saute-pan, add the meat and fry lightly for 
several minutes, then add the onion, finely chopped, stir 
over the fire for about five minutes, season with salt and 
pepper and add the potatoes. Pour off the superfluous 
fat, mix carefully and moisten with the cream and a 
table-spoonful of rich white stock, season with sufficient 
paprika pepper to give the sauce a pink tint, and 
cook gently for about 20 minutes. It is best to cook 



Entrees of Veal. 87 

the goulash at the latter stage in a fireproof earthenware 
stewpan, in which it should be sent to table. Great 
care must be taken so as not to break the potatoes whilst 
cooking. Serve very hot. 



Veau Saut§ k la Milanaise. 
(Saut6 of Veal, Italian Style.) 

2,\ lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 table-spoonfuls of 
flour, I lb. bacon, i oz. butter, i carrot, i onion, 4 ripe 
tomatoes, i bay-leaf, i glass white wine, i pint gravy, 
4 oz. macaroni or piccoli (cooked separately), salt, 
pepper, and sugar to season. 

Cut the veal into cutlets, remove the bones and skin 
and divide the meat into large dice or cub 3 shapes. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with the flour. 
Cut the bacon into slices, melt the butter in a deep 
saut6 or braising pan, line it with the bacon and fry a 
little, then put in the meat and allow it to take colour. 
Peel the onion, insert two cloves, scrape the carrot, and 
add both to the above, also the bay-leaf. Moisten with 
the wine and the gravy, stir till it boils, then cover and 
let cook gently for 15 minutes. Blanch the tomatoes, 
skin them, cut them in halves or quarters and put with 
the stew, then continue to cook till the meat is tender. 
Take up the meat and tomatoes, strain the sauce and 
pour a little over the meat and tomatoes. Heat up the 
macaroni in the rest of the sauce. Reheat the meat and 
add a pinch of castor sugar. Dish up, put the macaroni 
in the centre and serve. 

Note. — The gravy may be made with the bones and 
trimmings of the meat. 



Noisettes de Veau ^ la Turenne. 

(Veal Cubes, Larded and Stewed.) 
Cut ij lb. of lean veal into even-sized cube shapes, 
insert a few strips of larding bacon in each cube. Melt 



88 Recherche Entrees. 

2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, put in the meat, and fry over 
a quick fire for a few minutes. Then add 6 chopped 
mushrooms, 2 finely chopped shallots, and blend together 
Sprinkle over a dessert-spoonful of flour, stir and moisten 
with a gill of beef stock and a glass of Chablis, bring to the 
boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Season with salt, 
paprika, and pepper. Lastly add chopped parsley, \ 
gill of cream, and 2 yolks of eggs. Keep on the hot stove 
for another 20 minutes without boiling. Dish up and 
serve. 



Roulardines de Veau. 
(Small Veal Rolls on Skewers.) 
Cut 2 lb. of lean veal (fillet or cushion part), into 8-10 
thin slices ; flatten each with a cutlet bat, trim them and 
season with salt and pepper. Have ready a mixture of 
finely chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, butter and aro- 
matic spice, spread one side of the veal slices with this, 
upon this place a thin slice of streaky bacon, and roll up 
each as neatly as possible, then fasten on to silver or 
wooden skewers. Melt about an ounce of butter in a 
saut6-pan ; when hot put in the rolls of veal and fry 
them Over a fairly quick fire long enough to take colour. 
Pour off the butter, moisten with enough demi-glace 
sauce or rich gravy to cover the bottom of the pan. 
Place a piece of buttered paper on top and finish cooking 
in the oven. Allow about 20 minutes for this and baste 
frequently. Serve in a deep entrde dish and garnish 
with cubes of fried potatoes and groups of green peas or 
French beans. 



XVI. 




CAILLES ROTIES SOUS LA CENDRE. (/). 1 52.) 




NOIX DE BCEUF A LA VIART. (p. IO3,) 



89 



Entrees of Beef. 



Langue de Boeuf Brais^e aux ^Ipinards. 

(Braised Ox-tongue with Spinach.) 
Procure a salted pickled or smoked ox-tongue, 
remove the wind pipe and the fat at end. Soak pickled 
or salted tongues for 2 hours, and a smoked tongue for 
10-12 hours. Cook the tongue in a large stewpan with 
enough water to well cover it, add i onion stuck with 2 
cloves and a few peppercorns. Cook gently for about 
2 hours, take up, remove the skin whilst hot and place 
the tongue in another stewpan with J pint of tomato 
sauce and J pint of espagnole sauce, also a little gravy or 
stock. Cook slowly for another hour in the oven. 

Spinach. — Prepare 2 lb. of spinach. When washed, 
picked, and cooked with very little water and salt, drain 
it and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a 
stewpan, fry in it one or two finely chopped shallots, put 
in the spinach and 2 table-spoonfuls of white or 
bechamel sauce. Heat up, season with salt, pepper 
and a little nutmeg. Cook for a few minutes and dish 
up. 

Cut the tongue into slices. Range them on a bed of 
spinach. Pour round it some of the prepared sauce, 
and serve the remainder separately. 



Filet de Boeul a la Ravigote (Cold). 

Trim, skin, and lard 3 lb. of fillet of beef, braise it in the 
usual manner, and allow to get cold, and brush it over 
with meat glaze, boiled up with a little of the gravy. 



go Recherche Entrees. 

Make a herb butter or herb puree with a few sprigs of 
tarragon and chervil, i table-spoenful of capers, 3 boned 
anchovies, i gherkin, 2 hard-boiled egg yolks, i peeled 
shallot, I table-spoonful of spinach green, and 2 oz. of 
butter. When well pounded, rub through a sieve, and 
season to taste. Dish up the fillet of beef, which may be 
previously cut into slices, force a little of the green puree 
on each side. Garnish with halves of tomatoes filled 
with mayonnaise and scraped horseradish, stuffed 
olives and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Decorate the 
meat tastefully with the remainder of green herb butter, 
and the side of the dish with set aspic cut into triangles. 
Insert 2 small hatelets or skewers, decorated with 
mushrooms, etc. The dish is then ready to serve. 



Filets de Boeuf aux Bananes. 
(Small Fillets ot Beel with Bananas.) 

About 2j lb. fillet of beef, 4 bananas, i gOl cream, meat 
glaze, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 2 oz. butter, i 
small onion, 2 yolks of egg, horseradish, frying fat, flour 
and bread-crumbs. 

Trim the meat and cut it crossways into six or more 
even-sized fillets, pare these neatly and season with salt 
and pepper. Broil both sides of the fillets in butter over 
a quick fire for about eight minutes, take up, glare over 
with meat glaze, and keep hot. 

Have ready the onion finely chopped, blanched, 
drained, and fried without browning in the butter in 
which the fillets were cooked ; add the cream ; stir till 
hot (not boihng). Add the yolks of egg and let bind, 
then rub it through a sieve and keep hot. 

Peel the bananas, slit each in two and divide in halves 
crossways. Dip in flour, egg, and bread-crumbs, and 
fry in hot clarified butter fat. 



Entrees of Beef. 91 

Dish up the fillets on a hot dish. Mix a little finely 
grated horseradish with the sauce, and put a dessert- 
spoonful of it on top of each fillet. Sprinkle over a Uttle 
Uquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish the dish 
with fried bananas and serve with rich brown sauce. 



Filets de Boeuf h la Viennoise. 
(Fillets of Beel, Viennese Style.) 

ij lb. lean beef, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tea- 
spoonful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, i table-spoonful 
flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, ij giUs demi-glace sauce, salt, 
pepper, cayenne and nutmeg. 

Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small 
pieces and chop very fine, or pass twice through the 
mincing machine. Add the chopped parsley, savoury 
herbs, a little flour, one yolk and one whole 
egg, and mix well. Season with salt, pepper and a little 
grated nutmeg. Make this up into even-sized balls, 
flatten each to give them the shape of round fillets. 

Peel and slice the onions, cut some of the slices from 
the centre of each onion rather thicker than the rest, 
divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for 
frying separately. 

Dissolve an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry 
the onions to a golden brown. Put them in a small 
stewpan with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and 
allow to simmer gently for about twenty minutes 

Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in 
butter in a saute-pan. 

Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, 
and again into flour. Place them in a frying basket and 
fry a golden colour in hot fat. 

Dish up the fillets, put a table-spoonful of stewed 
onions on the centre of each. Range the fried onion rings 
round the fillets. Sauce over the fillets with hot demi- 



92 EechercM Entrees. 

glace sauce. Sprinkle oyer with a few drops of meat 
glaze and serve. 

Filets de Boeuf a la Jatnaique. 
(Farced Fillets ot Beef with Bananas.) 

Cut 6-8 small fillets of beef (centre cut), each weighing 
about 4 oz., trim them into even shapes ; season them 
with pepper and salt and insert a sharp pointed knife 
through the flat part of each fillet, and divide thus 
without making the opening any larger than necessary. 
Force into the opening as much seasoned chicken 
quenelle meat as each incision of the fillet will permit. 
The quenelle meat should be of a cream-like consistency. 
Put the fillets in a saute-pan containing hot butter, and 
sauter them on each side quickl}^ Cover with a buttered 
paper, and finish cooking in a hot oven for 15 minutes, 
baste frequently. Dress them on croutons of fried bread 
neatly cut. Glaze over with liquefied meat glaze, and 
fill the centre of the dish with slices of peeled bananas, 
slightly seasoned with salt and pepper, dipped in milk 
and flour, and fried in clarified butter to a golden colour. 

Serve with a sauce made as follows : — Reduce | gill 
white wine, \ gill vinegar with a table-spoonful of chopped 
shallots, then add a table-spoonful of meat glaze, a gill 
of rich brown sauce, 4 chopped mushrooms, and a table- 
spoonful of chopped Bengal chutney, season and let the 
whole simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. 



Coeurs de Filets de Bceuf a la Rossini. 

About 2 J lb. fillet of beef, J gill Lucca oil, 2 oz. butter, 
I shallot, 6 large chicken livers, 4 oz. foie gras, i truffle, 
pepper and salt, 8 round slices of fried bread, demi-glace 
sauce, meat glaze. 

Pare the fillet and cut it into six even-sized slices a 




NOISETTES DE MOUTON, RENAISSANCE. (/). IO9.) 




CHAPON A LA DAUPHINE. 



{p. 120.) 



Entrees of Beef. 93 

quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly ; 
each sUce should weigh about 4 ounces when trimmed. 
Put the oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, when 
hot put in the fillets and cook over a quick fire ; they 
should be rather underdone unless otherwise ordered, 
they will take from 5 to 7 minutes at the most. When 
done place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, 
and brush over with meat glaze. Prepare beforehand 
the following farce. Wash the livers, cut them into thin 
slices, fry the finely chopped shallot in butter, put in the 
liver and toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, 
pound in a mortar with the foie gras, and a large table- 
spoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the 
farce into 8 portions, and spread over one side of the 
fillets, place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot 
oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, 
dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each and serve 
with demi-glace sauce. 



Filets Mignons k la Richmont. 
(Small Fillets of Beef, Richmont Style.) 

2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 24 preserved mush- 
rooms, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, lemon juice, Madeira sauce. 

Cut the fillets into 8 slices of even size and thickness, 
trim each neatly and season with pepper and salt. 
Melt I 07. of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the 
fillets and fry them on one side, then turn them and cover 
the fried side with finely chopped mushrooms seasoned 
with a little sauce and lemon juice. Place remainder of 
butter on top and cover with a buttered paper. 

Put the pan in the oven and cook fillets thus for another 
10 minutes. Take up the fillets and range them on a 
hot dish, place a slice of truffle on top of each in the 
centre of the mushroom puree. Pour enough hot 
Madeira sauce round the base of the dish and serve hot. 



94 Recherche Entrees. 

Tournedos h la Seymour. 
(Small Fillets of Beef, Seymour Style.) 
Cut I lb. of fillet of beet into 8 thin slices, trim them 
and cook them in butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. 
Season to taste and place each on an artichoke bottom, 
previously heated in stock, and seasoned. Dish up in a 
circle, cover each with a well reduced Bearnaise sauce, 
place a thin round of truffle on top of each, and fill the 
centre of the dish with stuffed French ohves. Sauce over 
with demi-glace and serve. 



Petits Tournedos a la Choron. 

6-8 very small fillets of beef, 6-8 oval or heart shaped 
bread croutons, 6-8 small artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. butter, 
I pint green peas " au beurre," i lb. new kidney potatoes, 
Bearnaise sauce, tomato puree. 

Trim and pare the fiUets, i.e., tournedos, into oval 
shapes, grill or broil them in the usal way, rather under 
done, season them, and dish up on thin glazed croutes of 
fried bread. Garnish the dish with small artichoke 
bottoms (trimmed with a fluted cutter and scooped out 
slightly), fill them with green peas tossed in butter, and 
range on the side of the dish ajso cube-shaped pieces of 
new potatoes, tossed in butter, and baked in the oven. 
Fill the centre of the dish with Bearnaise sauce well 
flavoured with tomato. Dress the fillets neatly on a hot 
dish and serve. 



Chateaubriand a la Scribe. 
(Double Fillet of Beef, Scribe Style.) 
Cut two or more double fillets of beef weighing 
about 6-8 ounces each. Trim and flatten slightly and 
season with pepper and salt. Grill them rather under- 
done, over or in front of a clear fire. Glaze them with 
dissolved meat glaze. Dish up the Chateaubriand and 



Entrees of Beef. 95 

garnish the dish with small paste croustades filled 
with foie-gras ragout and Pommes Duchesse shapes. 
Send to table with a boat of Madere sauce. 



Pommes Duchesse. 

Wash and peel about i lb. mealy potatoes, boil until 
done, drain off the water and let them dry in the oven for 
a few minutes covered over. Rub them quickly through a 
wire sieve and whilst warm mix with three yolks of eggs, 
I oz. of clarified butter and a table-spoonful of cream, 
then season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg ; when 
well mixed, turn out on a floured board and divide into 
twelve parts of equal size. Give each the shape of a 
square, lay them on a buttered baking sheet, egg the 
surface and trace a few lines with a knife. Bake them 
in a quick oven, and dish up. 



Tournedos de Boeuf ^ I'Anna. 

Cut 8-9 slices from a fillet Of beef, trim and flatten 
each a little, and shape into tournedos. 

Peel about i doz. washed kidney potatoes and slice 
them thinly, place 8-9 greased pastry hoops, the same 
size as the tournedos, on a greased baking sheet ; three- 
parts fill each with slices of potatoes, previously dipped 
in oiled butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour . 

Meanwhile cook the tournedos in a saute-pan, contain- 
ing 2 oz. of butter heated, fry them on both sides, but do 
not cook them through. Take them up, pour off the 
butter from the saute-pan and add a glass of Chablis, a 
few drops of lemon juice and a gill of demi-glace sauce ; 
boil up, skim, season and reduce a little. 

Dress the fillets on the potato shapes, previously 
placed on a hot dish, put a table-spoonful of hot Bear- 



96 Recherche Entrees. 

naise sauce on each fillet or tournedo. Pour the pre- 
pared sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 



Tournedos de Boeut a la St. Jean. 

(Little Fillets ot Beef with Stuffed Olives.) 

8 very small fillets of beef, 18 stuffed olives, 8 artichoke 
bottoms, 2 ripe tomatoes, i oz. butter, |- gill Bearnaise 
sauce, I dessert-spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, i giU 
brown sauce, salt, pepper, i truffle for garnish. 

Flatten the fillets and trim into neat rounds, then 
season. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put 
in the fillets, and broil them over a quick fire so as to 
brown the surface of each ; they should be rather under- 
done. 

Have ready the artichoke bottoms, trimmed neatly 
and heated up in a little stock enriched with the meat 
glaze ; in the same stock heat the olives. Place each 
fillet on an artichoke bottom and on top put a slice of 
tomato. Reheat in the oven for 5 minutes, then dish up. 
Pour a teaspoonful of Bearnaise sauce enriched with a 
little meat glaze over the tomato slices and in the centre 
place a star-shaped piece of truffle. 

Dress the olives in the centre of the dish. Add a little 
of the stock above referred to, to the sauce, and boO. up. 
Pour this round the base of the dish and serve hot. 



Tournedos de Boeuf k la Ventadour. 

Cut some small fillets of beef and flatten them slightly 
with a wetted cutlet bat, trim each ne^tl3^ season with 
salt and pepper, and fry in a saute-pan with sweet oil 
(Huile de Provence). Dress the fillets in the form of a 
crown or border on a hot dish, place a thin slice of beef 
marrow, previously blanched and cooked in the oven on 
each fillet, also a thin slice of truffle. Fill the centre with 



K\II1. 




POULARDE OU CHAPON EN CHAUDFROID. 

{Suggested style of dressing.) 




POULPETONS DE ROGNONS, PARMENTIER. 



(/>■ I7-) 



Entrees of Beef. 97 

artichoke purde made hot and suitably seasoned. Sauce 
over carefully with Colbert sauce and serve quickly. 



Tournedos de Boeuf h la Kalisch. 

Trim neatly 6-8 small tournedos of beef cut from the 
fillet, trim them neatly and saut6 them on both sides in 
butter over a brisk fire. Have ready as many flat oval 
cake shapes of " rissoto," i.e., savoury rice flavoured with 
tomato and dress the tournedos on these. Fry the same 
number of eggs, the same as " ceufs sur plat," stamp 
them out and place one on top of each fillet. In the 
centre of each egg yolk, place a glazed slice of truffle. 
Dish up neatly, pour a rich perigord sauce round the 
tournedos, and send to table. 



Tournedos de Boeuf k I'Othello. 

Pare and cook small fillets of beef the same as directed 
for " Contre-filets a la Hongroise," but use fillet of beef 
in place of sirloin steak. Dress each Tournedos-fiUet 
on a fried crouton of bread of similar size. On top of each 
place a fried egg, cut out neatly. Sauce over with 
Perigord sauce and garnish the dish with straw potatoes 
and cooked green peas. 



Tournedos de Bceuf k la Bordelaise. 

Cut about 2 lb. of fillet of beef (middle cut), into neat 
\ inch thick slices, flatten, trim and season them. Saute 
the fillets in butter over a good fire, turning them after the 
sides have become shghtly browned. Cut as many sUces 
of beef marrow as there are fillets, blanch them and heat 
up in a saute-pan. Take up the fillets and the marrow 
and range them on a hot dish. Pour off the fat in the pan 
and add to the remaining essence a gill and a half of 
Bordelaise sauce. Heat up and pour over the fillets. 



98 Recherche Entrees. 

This dish is sometimes garnished with cooked green 
peas ; this, however, is quite optional, and is not as a 
rule served with " Filets Bordelaise." 



Contre-Filets de Boeuf t la Hongroise. 
(Sirloin Steaks, Hungarian Style.) 

2 slices of sirloin steak (Jin. thick), 2 oz. butter, 1 
truffle, 4 bunch of carrots, cassolettes of hominy, semo- 
lina, 6 eggs, meat glaze, perigord sauce, and seasoning. 

Cut 6 oval toumedo shapes from the sirloin steaks, and 
trim them neatly, and season them. Saute them on both 
sides in a saute-pan with butter over a quick fire. Have 
ready eight fried cassolette shapes of hominy or semolina. 
Scoop out as many ball shapes of carrots as are needed 
to fill the above. Cook them in salted water, drain and 
finish them in a richly flavoured paprika sauce. Fry the 
eggs the same as " oeufs sur plat," stamp them out and 
place one on top of each fiUet as soon as they are dished 
up. In the centre of each egg-yolk placed a glazed slice 
of truffle. Fill the cassolette shapes with the prepared 
carrots and range them round the fillets. Have ready a 
rich perigord (truffle) sauce, and send it to table with 
the dish of fillets. 



Contre-Filet k la DemidoS. 
(Braised Sirloin Stealc, Demidofl Style.) 

4 lb. sirloin of beef (best part), larding bacon, \ pint 
tomato puree, i table-spoonful meat glaze, | giU Espag- 
nole sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, 18 stuffed olives, 
3 truffles, 18 mushrooms, i carrot, i onion and bouquet, 
I oz. dripping or butter. 

Bone the meat and remove the fat ; trim and lard one 
side neatly. Put it in a braising-pan on a bed of vege- 
tables (carrot, onion peeled and sliced, and bouquet, and 
bacon trimmings) ; add the dripping or butter, and cook 



Entrees of Beef. 99 

in the oven till half-done ; baste frequently. Pour off 
the fat, and add the tomato puree, the wine, and the 
meat glaze. Season with pepper and salt ; cover, and 
return to the oven to cook for another twenty minutes. 
Skim, take up the meat and put it in another stew-pan, 
strain over the sauce, and add to this the Espagnole, the 
olives, slices of truffle, and preserved mushroom heads. 
Simmer gently for another 10 minutes. To dish up, cut 
the meat into thin slices, and arrange on a hot dish. 
Group the truffles, mushrooms, and olives round the 
meat, over pour the sauce and serve hot. 



Timbale de Boeuf a la Bourbonnaise. 
(Timbale of Beef.) 
Slice finely and pound in a mortar | lb. of fillet of beef 
free from skin and sinews. When quite smooth add the 
white of an egg and i J gills of cream. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a 
suitably sized timbale mould and line it well with the 
prepared farce. Three-parts fill the interior with a ragoUt 
of chicken fillets (cooked and cut into dice), cock's combs 
and kernels, champignons and truffles, moistened with 
Allemande or other rich white sauce. Cover so as to fill 
the mould completely with beef farce, and steam the 
shape in the oven for about one hour. When done, turn 
out on a hot dish, and sauce over with hot demi-glace or 
Madere sauce and serve. 



Aiguillettes de Boeuf en Casserole. 
(Larded Slices of Beef, Braised.) 

2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut longwise, larding 
bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, J pint claret, J pint 
stock, or brown sauce, i tin or bottle of cepes or morels 
(morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze. 

Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each with 



loo Recherche 'Entrees. 

strips of bacon, put the meat in a fireproof casserole, add 
pepper and salt, the wine, garlic and bay-leaves, and let 
it stand thus covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, 
adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim 
and simmer very gently in the oven or on the stove for 
one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the 
meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, 
glaze the top with meat glaze. Skim the sauce, reduce 
well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little sauce, garnish 
the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a 
sauce-boat. 



Entrecdtes h, la St. Clair. 

(Sirloin Steaks, St. Clair Style.) 

Cut two or three steaks from a sirloin of prime beef, 
flatten each a little with a cutlet bat and trim sparingly. 
Brush over each steak with oiled butter, and grUl them 
over or in front of a clear fire so as to brown each side. 
They must be quite underdone and juicy. Have ready 
some anchovy butter made by wiping and boning 6 
Gorgona anchovies, pound these with an ounce of butter 
and rub through a hair sieve. Season the sirloin steaks, 
place them on a dish and spread over with the butter. 
Put the dish in a hot oven for a few moments, then gar- 
nish with straw potatoes (Pommes pailles), and serve 
quickly. 

Pommes Pailles or Straw Potatoes are made as follows: 
Wash and peel 4-6 large potatoes, pare each, cut them 
into very thin slices and shred them finely so that the 
shreds resemble straws or very fine strips. Wash them 
in cold water and drain on a cloth. When the potatoes 
are well drained and free from moisture, plunge them, 
not too many at a time, into very hot frying fat, using 
a frying basket for this purpose ; shake them well and 
fry them till they acquire a pale brown colour. Then 




DARIOLES DE FOIE-GRAS EN BELIE VUE. (^.21.) 




COTELETTES DE PR^-SAI-t A LA NANTAISE. [p. lOS.) 



Entrees of Beef. loi 

take up, drain the potatoes thoroughly, sprinkle with 
enough fine table salt to season, and serve. 



Entrecdtes Grilles Edouard VII. 

2 to 3 sirloin steaks, 2 07. maitre-d'hotel butter, olive 
oil, salt and pepper, i gill well reduced tomato puree, 
I fried potato basket, 2 egg yolks, J a lemon, tarragon and 
chervil, cucumber garnishing, parsley, i gill veal gravy. 

Flatten and slightly trim the meat, brush it over with 
olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Then grill 
the steaks over or in front of good fire, allowing about 
8 minutes for each side. The steaks should be decidedly 
underdone and juicy, and quite tender when taken from 
the fire. Cream the maitre-d'h6tel butter, put it in a 
forcing bag with a rose tube, and force out 8-12 small 
rosettes on to a plate. Put this on the ice. Cut eight 
large potatoes into shapes of baskets, and fry them in 
hot fat. Peel a large cucumber, scoop out as many 
little ball shapes as possible, blanch them in salted water, 
drain and toss in fresh butter over the fire, season and 
besprinkle with chopped parsley. Dish up the steaks, 
cut them into sections. Sauce over carefully with a 
ribbon of tomato puree, blended with egg yolk, lemon 
juice and herbs, upon this place the maitre-d'hotel 
butter. Surround the steak with the potato baskets 
filled with the small cucumber balls. Serve with a 
boat of gravy blended with a little tomato puree. 



Entrec6te de Boeuf en' Casserole. 

(Sirloin Stealc in Stoneware.) 

2 thick slices of sirloin of beef cut longwise, larding 

bacon, a clove of garlic, i bay-leaf, |- pint claret, J pint 

brown sauce, meat glaze, gravy, i tin or bottle of cepes, 

salt and pepper. 



102 Recherche Entrks. 

Remove the bone from the meat, and free it from fat, 
lard one side of each slice with strips of bacon, put the 
meat in an earthenware casserole, season and add the 
wine, garlic, and bay -leaves, and let it stand thus covered 
for two hours. Place it on the fire, adding the sauce ; 
boil up, skim, and simmer very gently in the oven or on 
the stove for about ij hours, according to the size of the 
meat. When done take up, drain, place it on a hot dish, 
glaze the top with meat glaze, skim the gravy, reduce well, 
heat up the sliced cepes and moisten with a little butter 
gravy. Garnish the dish with this and serve the re- 
mainder of the sauce separately. 



Queues de Bceuf k PAIsacienne. 
(Braised Ox-tail t I'Alsacienne.) 

I ox-tail, 4 07. bacon or ham trimmings, a small 
bouquet garni, stock, small smoked and boiled sausages 
for garnish, 2 oz. butter, celery root, i small onion sliced, 
I small glass Cognac, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. 

Cut the ox-tail into joints about 2 inches long, soak 
them in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, 
and fry carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, 
bacon, parsley root, onion and herbs. When weU 
blended add the brandy (Cognac), season with salt and 
pepper, and cook well covered with stock in the oven for 
about an hour. Remove the fat from the surface, strain 
off the liquor, and reduce it with the sauce, then add it to 
the ox-tail, and finish cooking in the sauce till quite 
tender. Dish up on a hot dish piled up high. Pour the 
sauce carefully over the pieces. Garnish with fried 
sausages and grated horseradish and serve. 



Queues de Boeuf h la Soubise. 
(Fried Ox-tail witli Onion Purfie.) 
Wipe an ox-tail with a damp cloth and cut into sec- 
tions. Cook them tiU tender in well seasoned stock, then 



'Entrees of Beef. 103 

take up, drain and let them get cold. Egg and bread- 
crumb them carefully and fry a golden brown in clarified 
butter. Dish up and serve with a SouMse purie made 
as follows : Peel and slice 5 onions (i lb.), blend these in 
butter without browning. Add i oz. of butter and 
moisten with | pint milk and white stock. Cook till 
quite tender and rub through a fine sieve. Season to 
taste and finish with a little bechamel sauce. 



Noix de Boeuf a la Viart. 

Trim neatly into a cushion shape about 4 lb. of prime 
rump of beef (centre part). Lard the surface with 
strips of larding bacon and raw ham, then braise it in the 
usual way with a rich mirepoix (see page 131), flavoured 
with white wine, etc. When done, take up the meat and 
let it cool, glaze it, incorporating some aspic with the 
glaze ; the latter to be flavoured with the braize liquor. 

Dish up the meat when set, decorate it neatly with 
some creamed herb butter and surround the dish with 
groups of cooked and glazied' chestnuts, young carrots, 
and cardoons or celery, the latter cut in 2in. pieces and 
also glazed. Serve with a boat of mayonnaise, blended 
with enough tomato pulp to give it a red tint. 



Petits Pains de Mauviettes, 

Prepare a farce as directed for " Zephires de Per- 
dreaux " on page 163, using 8 boned and skinned larks, 
and Jib. of liver farce in place of partridge, and proceed 
to make the farce in the manner described. Fill up 7 
small buttered timbale moulds and steam them for about 
40 minutes. Unmould the shapes on to a hot dish, insert 
2 lark legs, previously cleaned and braised, into each 
timbale, also a glace cherry. Pour a nicely flavoured 
game sauce over and round the shapes and serve hot. 



I04 Reciter cM 'Entrees. 

Entrees of Lamb and Mutton* 



Cdtelettes d'Agneau d, la Maxime (Cold). 
{Lamb Cutlets, Maxime Style.) 

2 lb. best end neck of lamb, \ lb. liver farce, 6 leaves of 
French leaf gelatine, \ pint tomato sauce, \ pint be- 
chamel sauce, salt, pepper and nutmeg. 

Trim the neck neatly, cut off the bone ends, season 
with salt and pepper, and braise for about one hour in 
the usual way on a bed of mirepoix (vegetable and 
bacon) ; when done, set to cool. Prepare a farce as 
described below, cut the meat into cutlets, trim them, 
season with pepper and salt, and cover one side with a 
thin layer of the farce. 

Dissolve the gelatine and strain separately into the 
sauces, allowing three leaves for the tomato sauce and 
three leaves for the bechamel sauce. Stir the sauces for 
some minutes and season to taste. When sufficiently 
cool, coat the covered sides of the cutlets alternately with 
white sauce and tomato sauce. Place the cutlets after 
being well masked on to a wire tray, and keep on the ice 
until quite set. 

Dish up in a circle, put a dressed salad in the centre of 
the dish, place a paper rufHe on each cutlet, and serve. 



Farce for Cutlets Maxime. 

\ lb. calf's liver, \ lb. bacon, i small carrot, a small 
bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i small onion, i clove, 
I small blade mace, salt, pepper and nutmeg. 

Cut up the bacon and fry it, slice the liver and add to 
the bacon, fry a little, then put in the carrot and onion 



Entrees of Lamb. 105 

sliced, also the herbs, etc., and season with salt, pepper 
and nutmeg. When cooked sufficiently, remove herbs, 
etc., and pound the remainder in a mortar, add the foie 
gras with the liver. Rub through a sieve, when the 
farce is ready for use. 



Cdtelettes d'Agneau k la Dantzig (Cold). 
(Lamb Cutlets, Dantzig Style.) 

I neck of lamb, i tin or terrine foie gras pate, 2 oz. 
butter, I tongue, i white of egg, i truffle, \ pint white 
chaudfroid sauce, z\ gills aspic jelly, i table-spoonful 
cream, 2 table-spoonfuls cooked peas, 2 tomatoes, may- 
onnaise sauce, vegetable mac6doine, seasoning. 

Trim the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season 
with salt and pepper, make the butter hot in a saut6-pan, 
fry the cutlets and press until cold. 

Pound the foie gras and tongue in a mortar, add the 
cream, and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient 
aspic to make it set, rub it through a fine sieve and mix 
with it a little truffle (finely chopped) . Trim the cutlets, 
cover them completely with the farce, allow the farce 
to s^t, then mask with the chaudfroid sauce, previously 
mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish 
tint (a little spinach colouring may be added if neces- 
sary). 

Ornament one side of each cutlet with fancifully cut 
shoes of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Set the 
garnish with a little aspic jelly. When the garnish is 
set, coat each cutlet with half-set aspic. Have ready a 
border mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables 
neatly set in aspic and range the cutlets on the border. 

Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed 
of peeled and thinly cut tomatoes, green peas, and 
macddoine of vegetables, fiU the centre of the dish 
with this and serve. 



io5 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau Farcies t la Frangaise. 
(Farced Lamb Cutlets, French Style.) 

8 lamb cutlets, i pig's caul, i oz. butter, chicken or 
liver farce, i truffle, i egg, bread-crumbs, fat to fry, 
pepper and salt, sauce. 

Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and 
salt, put them in a saute-pan, with i oz. of butter pre- 
viously heated, fry the cutlets lightly over a quick fire. 
(The cutlets must not be allowed to fry long and should 
be quite underdone when taken up). Drain, put to 
press between 2 boards, when cold, pare and trim neatly. 
Have ready some chicken or liver farce, chop the truffle 
finely, and mix with the farce. Cover each side of the 
cutlets with the farce, wrap up each in pig's caul, egg and 
crumb, (twice if necessary), shape neatly and place in 
a wire basket. Fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard ; 
drain, dish up and serve with Perigord sauce. 



Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Russe (Cold). 

3 lb. best end neck of lamb, 4 sheets gelatine, 4 hard- 
boiled eggs, seasoning, i gUl stiff mayonnaise, a gill aspic 
jelly, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i oz. butter, 
seasoning. Cooked green peas and set aspic for garnish. 

Trim the neck, removing skin and bone, and shorten 
the rib bones. Wrap the neck in buttered paper and 
cook it in the stock-pot till tender ; when cold, cut into 
cutlets and shape them neatly. Have ready the yolks 
of eggs, rub them through a wire sieve, work in the 
anchovy essence, season with salt and pepper, and add 
the butter. Spread the right side of the cutlets with the 
egg farce, then mask them with the mayonnaise sauce, to 
which the gelatine, previously soaked and melted and 
strained, has been added. Dish up the cutlets when set, 
garnish with small cress, or any other salad. Garnish 



Entrees of Lamb. 107 

the dish further with chopped aspic jelly, and the halves 
of the eggs filled with remainder of egg farce, with a 
row of green peas on top. 



Cotelettes d'Agneau Marienbad.* 
'' (Lamb Cutlets, Marienbad. Style. ) ' 

8-10 well trimmed lamb cutlets, J pint endive or 
chicoree puree, demi-glace sauce, 2 oz. butter, J pint 
tin champignons, 4 oz. pounded lean lamb, 2 egg yolks, 
seasoning. 

For Croutons : — 3 oz. vermicelli, 2 egg yolks, J gill 
bdchamel. 

For Garniture : — Asparagus tips. 

Flatten the cutlets lightly. Saute one side of each in a 
saut6-pan containing the butter, and put them under 
press to cool. 

Meanwhile prepare a farce by chopping finely the 
preserved mushrooms, and adding to it the endive 
puree, pounded meat, and egg yolks. Season to taste, 
and mix thoroughly. Spread the cooked sides of the 
cutlets with this mixture. Range the cutlets, farced side 
uppermost, in the saute-pan with the butter, and cook 
in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes. 

Prepare croutons by boiling the vermicelli in slightly 
salted water till tender. Drain and mix with enough 
bechamel to form a thick pur^e, to this add 2 yolks of 
eggs, salt and pepper, and spread on a plate or dish 
when the purfe has been made hot. When cold stamp 
out as many cutlet -shaped croutons as there are cutlets, 
egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in deep fat. 
Drain well, and dress a cutlet on each. Dish up in the 
form of a crown. Fill the centre with cooked asparagus 
tips, seasoned and tossed in a little fresh butter. Pour 
some demi-glace sauce round, and serve. 

* Adapted from M. C. J. Corblef s MSS. 



io8 Recherche 'Entrees. 

C6telettes d'Agneau d, la Nantaise. 
(Lamb Cutlets, Nantese Style.) 

8 good-sized lamb cutlets, \ lb. veal or chicken force- 
meat, seasoning, i large truffle or i table-spoonful truffle 
peelings, 2 oz. chopped cooked ox-tongue, i oz. butter, 
I giU brown sauce, i egg, i dessert-spoonful meat glaze 
or Lemco. 

Pare and flatten the cutlets, then trim them neatly 
and fry one side of each in butter. Drain them and 
season both sides with salt and pepper. Mix the force- 
meat with a little cream or white sauce, and spread a 
layer of this on the cooked side of each cutlet. Brush 
over the coated sides with white of egg and cover com- 
pletely with a mixture of finely chopped truffle and tongue. 
Place the cutlets, raw side down, into the saut6-pan 
containing the butter and fry for 5 minutes, then pour 
off the fat, and add the brown sauce and the meat glaze 
previously diluted with a little water. Cover the pan 
and cook in the oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up 
the cutlets as shown in the illustration. Place a cutlet 
friU on each bone. Strain the sauce round the base of 
the dish, and serve. 



Brochettes d'Agneau, Turbigo. 
(Grilled Boned Lamb Chops.) 

Bone a good-sized loin of lamb, including part of the 
neck if necessary, cut it into fairly thick chops. About 
9 will be required for a full service. Flatten them lightly 
and trim neatly. Skewer each and season with salt and 
pepper and brush over with butter, then grill them care- 
fully in front of or over a good bright fire, allowing about 
six minutes for each side. 

Heat up in butter 9 small slices of natural foie gras, 
season with paprika and salt. Have ready a gill of fairly 
stiff allemande sauce mixed with suffiicient pimiento 
butter to give it a red tint, also i gill of flageolet puree. 




RTS d'AGNEAU en CAISSES. 



(P- 30.) 





■ 


I^i-" ' 






p**' 


k«i 








- jflM^^^^ 


Jd' 




>»>. 






"Siiisf^ 


d 


wm 





PETITS SOUFFLES DE FOIE DE VEAU. (^. 23. 




CASSOLETTES DE GIBIER. (p. 25.) 



Entrees of Mutton. 109 

Dish up the brochettes or chops, removing the skewers. 
Range them on an oblong entree dish, on a Duchesse 
border. Put a slice of foie gras on each chop and cover 
with the prepared sauce. Coat the slices of foie gras 
and force out a rosette of flageolet pur6e in the centre 
of each. Pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of 
the dish, and serve. 

Note. — Pimiento butter is made by pounding i oz. of 
Spanish pimientos with i oz. of fresh butter and rubbed 
through a sieve. 



Noisettes de Mouton t la Renaissance (Cold). 

I small loin of mutton, 2 oz. butter, seasoning. 

For the Farce. — 4 oz. streaky bacon, 6 oz. calf's 
liver, I oz. butter, aromatic seasoning, i truffle, 6 mush- 
rooms, 2 yolks of eggs, \ gill of espagnole sauce, \ glass 
Madere. 

Mince the bacon and fry in the butter. Add the calf's 
liver, cut in thin slices, and toss over the fire. Add the 
wine, brown sauce, and season. Boil up and pound in 
the mortar, then rub through a sieve. Re-heat, incor- 
porate the egg yolks, chopped truffle, and mushrooms 
(preserved), and use as directed. 

For the Border. — 6 slices of ox-tongue, 3 slices 
beetroot, i truffle, macedoine of young carrots, young 
turnips, French beans, asparagus, green peas, and 
artichoke bottoms, prepared and cut into suitable 
shapes, dice, balls, etc., and then cooked separately in 
salted water and drained, ij gills mayonnaise, J gill 
tomato puree, ij gills aspic, seasoning. 

Bone and trim the loin of mutton, pareoffmostof the fat, 
cut the meat into neat fillets, season with salt and pepper, 
and fry quickly in the butter for a few minutes only, then 
press the fillets, and let them get cold. Trim again, and 



no Recherche Entrees. 

coat one side of each with the prepared farce as above 
directed. Poach them with a Uttle stock in the oven, and 
when cold, mask each with Bokar sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Line the inside of a border mould previously masked 
with a thin layer of aspic, with thin slices of cooked ox- 
tongue and strips of truffle. Next run over the decorated 
portion another layer of aspic, and fill the mould with 
the following preparation : — 

Shred the remainder of tongue, cut the beetroot into 
thin strips, to this add a cupful of mixed cooked vege- 
tables, and mix carefully with | gUl of tomato puree, 
\ gill of mayonnaise, and a gill of aspic. Season to taste. 

Mix the remainder of mayonnaise, aspic and tomato 
puree together, and season with it the remainder of vege- 
tables. Dress these daintily into the centre of the 
border when turned out. 

Range the noisettes neatly coated with Bokar chaud- 
froid sauce and decorated upon the border. The dish is 
then ready to serve. 



Cotelettes de Mouton St. Germain. 

Pare and trim 8-10 mutton cutlets, season with salt 
and pepper, and egg and crumb them in fresh bread- 
crumbs. Dip each in oiled butter, then grill them care- 
fully over or in front of a bright fire. 

Have ready prepared, 6 aubergines, cut in halves, saute 
them quickly in olive oil, drain and fill them with a green 
pea puree. Range them on a hot entr6e dish, dress the 
cutlets on top, adjust paper frills on the cutlet bones, and 
serve with a light B6arnase Sauce. (See Sauces.) 



Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. 
(Mutton Cutlets, Soubise Style.) 

A best end of a neck of mutton, Soubise puree, 2 oz. 

butter, pepper and salt, demi-glace sauce. (See Sauces.) 



Entrees of Mutton. xii 

Saw off the upper rib bones from the neck, leaving the 
bones which will form the cutlets about three inches long; 
then saw off the chine bone and cut off each cutlet, trim 
neatly, scraping the skin and fat clean off about half an 
inch of the top of each bone. Arrange the cutlets in a 
saute-pan containing i oz. of hot butter, season with 
pepper and salt, cook the cutlets to a nice brown on each 
side. Dish up and serve with Soubise puree in the 
centre, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of 
the dish and serve. 



Soubise Pur§e. 

Peel 2 large Spanish onions or 4 small onions, blanch 
them, drain and cut into slices, cook them till tender in 
seasoned milk and stock. Rub through a fine sieve, 
return to the stew-pan and reduce with \ gill of bechamel 
sauce. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch 
of castor sugar. Finish with a little cream and use as 
directed. 



C6telettes de Mouton a la Byron. 

Cut, trim, and flatten 8 or more large mutton cutlets, 
insert in equal proportions with a larding needle across 
the lean part some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. 
Put the cutlets in a saute-pan with the trimmings (minus 
the fat), a small sliced carrot, half an onion stuck with a 
clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add half a pint of 
rich stock, season with pepper and salt, and allow to cook 
slowly for about half-an-hour. When done, drain the 
cutlets, press them between two baking sheets, and let 
cool. Add a gill of espagnole sauce to the liquor, reduce 
well, skim and strain. Add a dessert-spoonful of finely 
chopped parsley and three tarragon leaves to the sauce, 
mask the cutlets with this, and let cool again. Dip in 



112 Recherche Entrees. 

beaten egg and milk, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry 
in hot fat or butter. Drain them on a cloth and dish up 
in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheep's kidneys, 
pile these in the centre of the dish, put a few warmed 
green peas on top, adjust paper frills on the cutlet bon-es, 
and serve. 

Cotelettes de Mouton h la Gelie. 
(Mutton Cutlets in Savoury Jelly.) 

I neck mutton, i pint stock, 2 dessert-spoonfuls meat 
glaze or Lemco, i egg, i pint aspic, i tomato, mixed salad, 
mayonnaise, \ cucumber. 

Procure the best end of a neck of mutton (about 8 
ribs), trim off the superfluous fat, saw off the chine bone 
afid pare into a neat shape. Tie up the trimmed neck 
in a piece of greased paper and cook it in richly seasoned 
stock for about i J hours. When done take it up and let 
it get cold under press. Reduce \ pint of the stock in 
which the meat was cooked, carefully remove aU the 
fat, and add the meat glaze, then reduce further to the 
consistency of " half-glaze." Cut the cooked neck into 
cutlets, trim and pare each neatly, and brush over both 
sides with the prepared " half-glaze." Pour a thin 
layer of half-set aspic jelly in a large saute-pan or clean 
baking sheet. When just set, place in the cutlets and 
coat them with aspic. Decorate each cutlet with a star- 
shaped slice of hard-boiled egg, the centre of which has 
been stamped out and refilled with a small round of 
tomato chilli, truffle or gherkin. Pour over some more 
aspic so as to cover the cutlets completely. Place them 
on the ice to set. Prepare a mixed salad composed of 
lettuces, endive and cress, season with salt and pepper 
and a little mayonnaise dressing. Put this neatly in the 
centre of a round dish. Cut out carefully the cutlets set 
in aspic, and range them neatly on a bed of salad ; 
garnish tastefully with slices of cucumber,_sprigs of 



Entrees of Mutton. 113 

endive, etc., and chopped aspic or savoury jelly, and the 
dish is then ready for serving. 



C6telettes de Mouton a la Princesse. 
(Mutton Outlets, Princess Style.) 
8 mutton cutlets, seasoning, bread-crumbs, oil, a 
salpicon of sweetbread, truffle, chicken liver, i egg yolk, 
4 pint allemande or supreme sauce, butter. 

Flatten and trim the cutlets neatly, season with salt, 
dip in oil, and broil or grill rather rare (underdone) over a 
bright fire. Prepare a salpicon by mincing finely equal 
quantities of sweetbread and chicken liver (both being 
previously cooked), and add a chopped truffle. Season 
with salt, pepper and aromatics, and heat up with 
enough white sauce to moisten. When hot, bind with 
one yolk of egg and spread on a plate to cool. Press the 
cutlets as soon as done. When cold, spread the cutlets 
all on the same side with the salpicon, smooth over the 
surface, and mask each carefully with cold supreme sauce, 
then sprinkle over with bread-crumbs or Panurette, 
place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top 
of the cutlets, put them on a greased baking tin in as 
sharp oven for five or six minutes. Dress the cutlets on 
a hot dish, pour some hot demi-glace round the base and 
serve. 



Cotelettes de Mouton k la R^forme. 
(Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style.) 
Pare, trim, and flatten 8-10 mutton cutlets in the usual 
way, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix a 
plateful of bread-crumbs with an ounce of finely chopped 
lean ham. Beat up an egg, crush over the cutlet with it, 
cover with the prepared crumbs, re-shape the cutlets, 
and fry them on both sides in clarified butter. 

H 



114 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Prepare a garniture consisting of strips of hard-boiled 
white of egg, cooked carrot, gherkins, and truffles, and 
ham or tongue, aU cut like small matches (en julienne). 
Heat this up with a little butter and season carefuUy. 
Drain the cutlets, dish them up, and range the garniture 
in the centre or on the side of the cutlets. Pour round 
the base of the dish a sauce composed of demi-glace and 
pepper sauce (poivrade), blended with a little red cur- 
rant jelly and port wine. 



Cotelettes de Mouton ^ la Lion d'Or. 

(Mutton Cutlets, Golden Lion Style.) 
8 thickly cut mutton cutlets (centre cut of neck), i 
small foie-gras pate, i piece lamb's leaf fat, 4 oz. veal 
forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, bread-crumbs, 
seasoning, Soubise sauce, and demi-glaze. 

Trim the cutlets and slit the side of each to the bone, 
but do not separate entirely. Prepare a puree with the 
foie gras and fill up the opening thus made with it, in- 
serting here a there a slice of truffle and mushroom ; 
close up, and fry the cutlets a little in butter. 

Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie- 
gras puree, truffles and mushrooms (finely chopped), and 
cover each cutlet completely with this mixture. Wrap 
up in the leaf fat (or pig's caul), egg, bread-crumb, and 
fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing sufficient 
hot clarified butter or lard to completely cover them. 
When done, drain, dish up in a circle, adjust friUs on the 
bones, put some Soubise sauce in the centre and serve 
demi-glace round. 

For Soubise Sauce.. — Use Soubise puree on page iii, 
incorporate whilst hot with \ gill of cream and a little be- 
chamel sauce, and season to taste. 



Entrees of Mutton. 115 

C6telettes de Mouton k I'Araericaine. 

(Mutton Cultets, American Style.) 
Trim 8 mutton cutlets, flatten, and pare them nicely ; 
season both sides with salt and pepper, and put in a 
saut6-pan with 2 oz. of melted butter ; fry the cutlets 
a light brown on both sides, drain, and put them between 
two tin sheets with a weight on top. When cold, im- 
merse the cutlets in bdchamel or other rich white sauce, 
so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire 
tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, 
and roll the coated part of the cutlets in this, then dip 
them in beaten egg, and crumb with Panurette. Keep 
the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry them to a 
nice colour in hot clarified butter, drain and dish up in a 
circle. Fill the centre of the dish with sliced tomatoes 
tossed in butter and seasoned. Put small paper frills 
on the cutlet bones. Serve hot with cold cucumber 
sauce (see Sauces). 



Filets de Mouton k la Tyrolienne. 
(Fillets of Mutton, Tyrolean Style.) 

About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 6 small even- 
sized tomatoes, 12 button onions, i table-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, i gill of sweet oil, J gill Orleans vinegar, 
I minced shallot, i bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, salt, 2 oz. 
ham, I gill demi-glace sauce, i gill stock, i oz. butter, 
I egg, bread-crumbs, frying fat. 

Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, 
cut it into 8 nice fillets, trim off some of the fat, and lay 
them in a marinade for twelve hours. The marinade in 
this case consists of the oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf 
garlic, coarsely chopped parsley, and salt. It is advis- 
able to turn the fillets from time to time. Cut the 
tomatoes in halves, and squeeze out a little of the pulp. 



ii6 Recherche Entrees. 

Peel the button onions, fry them a golden colour in the 
butter ; when this is done pour off the butter, add the 
stock, and let come to the boil quickly ; skim well, and 
braise the onions in the oven until done. The stock 
should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so 
as to glaze them completely. 

Put the butter left from the onions in a saut6-pan, 
place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and 
fry gently for a few minutes. Take out the fillets from 
the marinade, drain them on a cloth, then egg and 
crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. 
They must not be cooked too slowly, else they 
will not be done by the time they are of the desired 
colour. Range the fillets neatly in a row in the centre of 
an oblong entree dish. 

Have ready the ham finely chopped and warmed in 
just sufficient brown sauce to moisten. Put a dessert- 
spoonful of the ham in each half of tomato, place 
a button onion on top of each, and garnish the dish with 
them. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of 
dish, and serve. Note : — The demi-glace should be well 
reduced with a table-spoonful of the marinade. 



Cotelettes de Pore 4 la Robert. 
(Pork Cutlets with Robert Sauce.) 
Cut 8 small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck 
of pork. Trim, fiatten and pare neatly, leaving about 
half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets 
in a deep dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped 
parsley, pour over two table-spoonfuls sweet oil, allow 
them to remain in soak for half an hour, and turn them 
frequently. Drain the cutlets and broil them over a 
clear fire. They should be cooked through and will take 
from|fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve 
with Sauce Robert. (See Sauces.) 




TETITES MOUSSES DE CANETON A LA MORESCO. [p. I44.) 




ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS A LA GEL^E. (p. 22.) 



Entries o'f Ham. 117 

Mousse de Jambon (Cold). 
(Cold Ham Mousse.) 

\ lb. lean cooked ham, \ pint Espagnole saupe, i gill 
aspic jelly, i| gill cream, \ oz. gelatine, salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg. 

Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round 
it a band of white paper (mousses, or souffles should have 
a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must 
be overfilled ; the paper band supports it). Pound ham 
(previously freed from fat) and sauce together in a 
mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. 

Put the aspic into a basin and whisk it tiU it becomes 
light and frothy ; whip up the cream and stir into it by 
degrees the pounded mixture, season well, then strain 
into it J oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a 
few drops of carmine to give it a nice pink colour ; lastly 
add the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. 
Turn into prepared mould and put on the ice to set. 
When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped 
truffles and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, 
allow to set, then remove band of paper, slip the mousse 
into the outer souffle case, it is then ready to serve. 



Souffl6 de Jambon a I'EspagnoIe. 
(Cold Ham Souffle.) 

I lb. cooked ham (lean), i oz. butter, i shallot, \ pint 
Espagnole sauce, i gill aspic jelly, \ oz. leaf gelatine, i gill 
cream, i white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper and pap- 
rika. 

Cut the ham into dice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, 
add the shallot, peded and minced finely, and fry a little, 
then put in the ham and fry over a quick fire for five 
minutes, put it in a mortar and pound finely, adding a 
little Espagnole sauce to moisten. Rub the whole 
through a fine sieve and put it in a stew-pan with the 



ii8 Recherche Entrees. 

sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, and season to 
taste. Then add the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dis- 
solved and strained. Whisk the egg-white to a stiff 
froth and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. 
Whip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. 
Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into 
a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. 
Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the 
paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned 
with a good pinch of paprika or Krona pepper, and 
serve at once. 



Jambon h. la Bourgogne. 
(Braised Ham, Burgundy Style.) 
Soak a small York ham in cold water for 12 hours, 
and cook it in water for one hour. Take up, remove the 
rind and trim it neatly. Place the ham in a braising pan, 
adding i quart of gravy or thin brown sauce, 2 glasses of 
Burgundy wine, i bay -leaf, 3 peeled shallots, i carrot, and 
a few peppercorns. Cover the pan and coo k in the oven 
for two hours or till the ham is tender. Take out the 
ham, free the liquor from fat and reduce it well with a 
little espagnole sauce, add also i table-spoonful of 
Worcester sauce and i teaspoonful of castor sugar. To 
serve, cut the required number of slices from the ham, 
dish up neatly, garnish the dish with braised lettuce, 
small potato croquettes, and mushroom heads. Strain 
over some of the sauce and serve. 



119 



Entrees of Poultry* 



Mousse de Chapon a la Belle H61ene (Cold). 
(Mousse of Capon.) 

I capon, I lb. natural foie gras, 6 oz. cooked lean ham, 
I oz. butter, 2 eggs, ij gills cream, ij gills bechamel or 
veloute sauce, salt, white pepper, krona or cayenne 
pepper to season, 2J gills aspic jelly, and aspic cream. 

Remove the fillets and other nice portions of 
capon, free from skin and bone. With the bones and 
skin make a rich stock. Pound the capon meat in a 
mortar until quite smooth and add gradually the yolks 
of 3 eggs and the white sauce and the cream. Add the 
butter, mix thoroughly, season to taste and rub through 
a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff 
froth and carefully stir into the farce. Put this into a 
well-buttered plain mould and steam slowly for about 40 
minutes, then set the mould to cool. Mask a large timbale 
or mousse mould with a layer of aspic, decorate the 
bottom and sides neatly with thin slices of foie gras, ham 
and truffle, and let set. Next coat the decorated portion 
with a thin layer of aspic cream made with veloute and 
aspic. Pound in a mortar the left-over pieces of foie 
gras and ham tUl quite smooth ; cut the top portion of 
the steamed timbale into slices and pound with the foie 
gras and ham, season again if needed and pass through 
a fine sieve. Incorporate a gill of aspic cream and a 
gill of very stiff aspic (liquid but not hot). Stir over the 
fire for a few minutes, then mask with it the prepared 
mould, drop in the steamed timbale, and keep it in a 
well charged ice cabinet for about an hour. Unmould 
carefully into a dish. Garnish to taste and serve. 



I20 Recherche 'Entrees. 

Mousse de Dindon k I'Ecarlate (Cold). 
(Mousse of Young Turkey.) 
I lb. cold braised or boiled young turkey, free from 
skin, bones and sinews, \ lb. cooked ox-tongue, 'l\ gills 
bechamel sauce, i gill cream, salt and pepper, aromatics, 
aspic jelly, hard-boiled white of egg, and truffle for 
decoration. 

Line a plain Charlotte mould with a thin layer of aspic, 
when set decorate the sides and bottom with triangular- 
shaped slices of hard-boiled white of egg and rounds of 
truffle. Keep the mould on the ice till required for 
filling. Cut up the turkey meat and tongue rather finely, 
and pound both in a mortar till quite smooth, then in- 
corporate the white sauce and about i gill of liquid aspic, 
fortified with \ oz. of leaf gelatine. Season to taste with 
salt, pepper, and aromatics, and rub all through a sieve. 
Now incorporate the whipped cream, and a little more 
aspic if needed. Fill the prepared mould with this and 
keep on the ice for about 2 hours. To serve, unmould 
the shape on to a dish and garnish the sides with dropped 
aspic. 

Chapon a la Dauphine (Cold). 
(Chaudfroid of Capon, Dauphine style.) 

For Mousse. — i large capon, cooked lean ham, ij 
giUs of aspic, truffle and seasoning, \ giU of bechamel 
sauce, \ gill cream, white chaudfroid sauce for masking. 

For Decoration. — \ pint firm chicken aspic, slices of 
ham and chillies or pimientos, i large truffle. 

Truss the capon as for boiling, rub the surface with cut 
lemon, and cook till tender in seasoned whole stock. 
Drain and let cool. Pound the ham finely, add to it the 
sauce, and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste, and 
incorporate the cream and aspic, also some chopped 
truffle, if liked. Stir this over the ice tiU it begins to set. 
Carefully remove the breast or fillet portion of the boiled 




niFTS DE SOIL s \IKT r,EOK(,FS 



(/>. 60.; 







^*^"'SP9'*^ 




^s^?i^nn 


■■■ 


^^Jm 


MvJpH 


BiH 




■■Hi 




J 


■HHHfflHHMMBIIIi 



FILETS PE BCEUF VIENNOISE, 



{^ 9I-) 



Entrees of Poultry. 121 

capon, and cut away the breast bone ; then fill the body of 
the bird with the prepared mousse, covering the top 
neatly with the slices of fiUets so as to give the bird its 
original shape. Mask over with chaudfroid sauce. Dish 
up, and decorate with fancifully cut slices of ham and 
truffle, and pimiento. 

The bird must be dished on a neatly shaped plain rice 
socle, the sides of which are to be built up with rockshapes 
of chicken aspic. The latter is whisked whilst liquid on 
the ice to a froth, and shaped by means of a table-spoon 
(like small meringues or queneUes). Pour a little half- 
set clear jeUy round the base of the dish, and serve when 
the latter has become firm. 



Poussins Po§16s a la Madrid. 

3 or 4 chic-chickens (poussins) ,2 oz. butter, 12 small veal 
quenelles, 4 oz. lean bacon (cut in cubes), i small onion, 2 
strips lemon rind, J gill demi-glace, 12 very small button 
onions (peeled), seasoning, 8 mushroom heads, i pimiento 
I carrot (scraped), ^bay-leaf, i gill tomato sauce, J glass 
Marsala. 

Truss the chic-chickens for braising, cut the carrot in 
quarters, peel the onion and cut it in half, stick a clove 
in one half. Melt the butter in a fire-proof earthenware 
pot. Fry the button onions in this, and take them out ; 
put in the carrot, cut onion, bay-leaf, and lemon rind, and 
place in the chickens ; let them take colour over a brisk 
fire, and set it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take up, 
pour off the fat, onion, etc., and place the chicken in 
again with the fried button onions, the bacon cut in cubes 
and fried, the mushroom heads, and the veal quenelles 
previously poached in stock and drain also the pimiento 
cut into slices. Season with salt, pepper and aromatics, 
and moisten with the sauces mentioned, also the wine. 
Cover the pan, and let its contents cook in the oven from 



122 Recherche Entrees. 

20 to 30 minutes. To serve, transfer the whole into an 
oblong fireproof terrine, which should be placed in the 
oven for at least 10 minutes before sending to table. If 
liked the little birds may be cut in halves at the time of 
dishing up, half a bird being considered enough for each 
person. 

Poulet Saut6 k la President. 

(Stewed Chicken, President Style.) 

I large chicken or Surrey fowl, 2 oz,. clarified butter, i 
shallot, I glass sherry, i gill espagnole sauce, i gill tomato 
sauce, about | lb. short crust paste, 4 oz. cooked game or 
beef, I oz. ham, i oz. butter, 2 table-spoonfuls bechamel 
sauce, 3 yolks of egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper, 
I large truffle, a croute of fried bread. 

Draw, wipe and singe the chicken, cut it into neat 
joints (it should make 8 nice pieces). Melt the butter in 
a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces, season with salt 
and pepper, and fry a golden colour over a brisk fire. 
Add the shallot finely chopped at the last, so as to blend a 
little ; now add the sherry, cover, and reduce a little ; 
then put in the tomato and espagnole sauce, and let sim- 
mer gently for from 30 to 40 minutes. Roll out the paste. 
Butter six or more little dariole moulds, and line them 
with the paste, fill them up with raw rice or dried peas, 
and bake in a moderately heated oven for 15 minutes, 
or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the 
rice and fill the crusts with the following mixture : — 

Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, and 
pound in a mortar till smooth. Add the bechamel sauce, 
butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Pound well, work in 
the raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Cut the truffle into round slices, 
and chop the trimmings finely, and mix with the above. 
Fill the paste crusts with the farce carefully, and bake for 
ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fixed 



Entrees of Poultry. 123 

on a hot dish by means of a httle batter or white of egg. 
Skim off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the 
chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg 
into triangular or heart shapes, stamp out the centre so as 
to receive the slices of truffle. Place these carefully on 
the baked and filled paste crusts, and range them round 
the chicken. Serve hot. 



Poulet Saut6 d la Marengo. 

Cut up 2 tender chickens into neat joints ; put a gill of 
sweet oil in a large saute-pan ; when hot, put in the 
pieces of chicken and allow them to fry over a quick fire, 
adding a small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a clove, a 
small shallot. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of 
nutmeg. When the pieces are slightly brown on both 
sides, remove the bay-leaf, thyme, clove, and shallot, pour 
off part of the oil, add a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped 
shallot, and | a clove of bruised garlic ; allow to fry a few 
minutes longer, then moisten with half a gill of good 
stock, I pint of espagnole and i pint of tomato sauce, 
I glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy ; also 10 
large sliced preserved mushrooms and two sliced truffles. 
Let all simmer for twenty minutes (covered). 

Fry in very hot sweet oil as many fresh eggs as may be 
required allowing one to each person, drain them on a 
cloth, dish up the chicken in pyramidal form on a hot 
dish, sauce well, place the eggs round the chicken, gar- 
nish with fried glazed bread croutons, or fleurons, and 
serve. 



Poulet Saut§ t la Philippe. 

I tender fowl or large chicken, 4 oz. bacon cut in strips, 
2 oz. butter, a small glass brandy, i teaspoonful anchovy 
essence, i teaspoonful finely chopped herbs, 4 oz. rice 
blanched and cooked in rich stock, i teaspoonful curry 
powder, \ teaspoonful saffron, \ pint preserved morilles 



124 Recherche Entries. 

or cepes, J pint demi-glace sauce, J oz. grated Parmesan 
cheese, i large croute of fried bread the shape of a 
timbale (made hollow), seasoning. 

Clean and wipe the chicken or fowl, cut it up into con- 
venient joints, season them with pepper and salt, and fry 
in a saut6-pan with the bacon and butter tUl of a nice 
colour. Take up the pieces of fowl, pour off the butter 
into a cup (for further use), leave the bacon in the pan, 
put the brandy and anchovy essence into the saut6-pan, 
add also the chopped herbs and the sauce. Boil up, 
skim, season and replace the pieces of chicken. Cook 
gently for about 20 minutes. Flavour the rice with 
curry and saffron first blended in a little butter, mix 
thoroughly and add half an ounce of parmesan cheese. 
Season to taste and keep very hot. Dress the chicken 
and rice in layers into the prepared bread timbale croute. 
See that the breast pieces of the fowl are placed on top. 
Garnish the top of the timbale and the sides with 
sauted morilles or cepes seasoned and flavoured with 
cheese. Pour a little of the sauce over the timbale and 
serve the rest in a sauce-boat along with the dish. 



Poulet en Casserole. 
(Braised Chicken in Casserole.) 
Line the bottom of an earthenware fire-proof casserole 
with thinly cut slices of streaky bacon, slices of carrot and 
I sliced onion, put in an ounce of butter, and let it melt 
over the fire, place in a ready-trussed Surrey fowl, 
breast downwards, let it take colour (a nice golden 
brown), then turn it and brown the other side. Now 
pour off the fat in the casserole, add a small bouquet of 
herbs (parsley, thyme and bayleaf), also 12 small button 
onions, peeled and fried in butter. Moisten with 4 pint 
of rich stock or gravy and a gill of brown sauce. Cover 
the pan and place it in a fairly hot oven for about i hour. 
By that time the fowl should be quite cooked. Baste it 



XNIIl. 




ESCALOPES OU FILETS DE VEAU A LA PARISIENNE. 




CHAPON k LA BlicHAMEL 



(P- 137.) 



Entrks of Poultry. 125 

occasionally during the process of cooking. Take up the 
fowl, strain the sauce and skim it, then put it back into 
the casserole together with the bacon and onions, put in 
the fowl after the string and skewers have been removed. 
See that the sauce is nicely seasoned. Keep the contents 
of the casserole hot till required for table ; then place 
it on a folded napkin on a large round dish, and serve. 



Filets de Poulet aux Huitres. 
(Chicken Fillets with Oysters.) 

Remove the breast from a fine chicken or Surrey fowl, 
take off the skin and flatten the meat with a cutlet bat. 
Cut each fillet in two, trim a little, and place a raw 
bearded oyster in the centre of each slice of fillet. 

Season lightly with pepper, salt, aud lemon juice, then 
roll each little fillet in a piece of oiled white paper. 
Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a little stock and 
a glass of white wine. Cook them thus in the oven from 
10 to 15 minutes. Take up, remove the paper, dish up 
and pour over a nicely made veloute sauce flavoured with 
the reduced chicken liquor. 



Poulet Frit k la Villeroi. 
(Fried Chicken, Villeroi style.) 

I fowl, I pint stock, 2 or. butter, J oz. flour, i glass 
white wine, i whole egg, bread-crumbs, frying fat, a 
mirepoix consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, 2 
cloves, and savoury herbs, 3 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, 
seasoning, parsley. 

Truss the fowl as for braising ; place it on a bed of 
vegetable and bacon (mirepoix), with an ounce of butter 
in a braising-pan (braisoire), and let the surface of the 
fowl get nicely browned over a bright fire. Moisten with 
stock, season with salt and pepper, cover, and place in 
the oven for about ^ an hour, baste occasionally. Take 



128 Ttechci'che Entrees. 

Supr^mes de Volaille k la Strasbourgeoise. 

(Chicken Fillets, Strasbourg style.) 
2 chickens, i tin or terrine foie gras (about 6 oz.), 4 oz. 
fat pork, aromatic spice, pepper and salt, pig's caul, 3 to 
4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, i truffle, bread-crumbs, 
I egg, demi-glace sauce, morels. 

Remove the fillet and wing portions of chicken, flatten 
them, and cut out about ten nice rounds the size of a four 
shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about 6 oz. of chicken 
meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie- 
gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with 
pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through 
a fine wire sieve. Chop finely the fresh mushrooms (these 
being previously peeled and trimmed) ; fry them 
slightly in some butter over a brisk fire. Cut the caul 
into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet, put each 
piece of caul over a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need 8 
or 10 of these). Put a table-spoonful of the prepared 
farce in the centre of each piece of caul, spread out the 
farce, now put a chicken fillet on top of this, then a few 
chopped and broiled mushrooms, a thin slice of truffle, 
and finish up with a further layer of farce. 

Fold in the pig's caul, press the whole lightly into the 
moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up 
an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, also a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly, coat the 
cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread-crumbs. En- 
deavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes whilst crumb- 
ing. Fry them in hot butter to a nice colour, dish up on a 
narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with 
broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi- 
glace sauce. 

Suprfemes de Volaille h, la Mirette. 

■f^ (Chicken Fillets, Mirette style.) 

Remove the breasts from two fine chickens, skin the 
fillets and lard them ; place them in a saute-pan with 




TIMEALE DE VOI-AILT.E A LA PASQUAL. (/l. I33.) 




BtCASSINES BRAIsfeES AUX CHODX. {p. 169.) 



Entrees of Poultry. 129 

butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 15 
minutes in a moderate oven. Remove the fillets and put 
into the saute-pan half a gill of well-reduced veloute 
sauce, I table-spoonful of chicken essence and a table- 
spoonful of concentrated tomato puree. Boil up, skim, 
reduce, add a little lemon juice and season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Pass this through a tammy and 
pour over the fillets. Keep them hot. Have ready a 
crouton of fried bread fixed on to an oval dish. Prepare 
a julienne of cooked artichoke bottoms, truffles, and 
champignons, heat these up in a little seasoned stock. 
Dress the fillets on the dish, sprinkle over the top the 
prepared julienne and pour the sauce round the base of 
the dish. Serve hot. 



Darioles de Volaille k la Diplomate (Cold). 
(Chicken Darioles, Diplomate style.) 

J Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, foie gras, i table-spoonful of 
cream, i yolk of egg, salt and aromatic spice, i oz. of 
ham, truffles, -J- pint chaud-froid sauce, J pint aspic jelly, 
aspic border with vegetable macedoine. 

Remove the fillets of a large fowl, taking off the skin 
and sinews ; broil them in a saut6-pan with a little fresh 
butter, let them get cold, then cut up finely, pound the 
rest of the meat in a mortar with about one-third its 
quantity of foie gras, add a little cream, and the yolk of 
one egg. Season with aromatic spice, and pound till 
fine enough to pass through a fine sieve. Butter 8 egg- 
shaped dariole moulds, line them with this farce, place a 
spoonful of chicken and ham salpicon, mixed with minced 
truffles, in the centre ; fill up and cover with the re- 
mainder of the farce, and place them in a saute-pan, two- 
thirds filled with boiling water. Cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven about 20 minutes. When 
done, unmould the shapes and place them on the ice to 
cool. Mask them over with a white chaud-froid sauce and 

I 



130 'Recherche 'Entrees. 

decorate with truffles, then coat over with a thin layer 
of aspic. Dress them neatly on an aspic macedoine 
border on a round dish ; put some small mixed salad in 
the centre of the dish, and serve. 



Poulet d6coup6 en Chaud-froid. 

(Chaud-froid of Chicken.) 

Boil a tender chicken in seasoned white stock ; when 
done, take up, drain and let cool. Cut it into neat joints 
and remove the skin. Coat each with white chaud-froid 
sauce and place on a wire tray. Repeat this so as to 
completely mask each piece with sauce. 

Decorate with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimientos, 
cucumber rind, and lastly mask with a thin layer of aspic. 

Dish up neatly on a bed of small salad, and serve. 



Escalopes de Poulet anx Epinards. 

(Chicken Gscallopes with Spinach.) 
Bone a young pullet or Surrey fowl, split open the back 
and lay out flat, skin downwards, season with pepper and 
salt, and a little aromatic spice ; spread over with a 
fairly thick layer of veal and ham forcemeat, roll up into 
the shape of a galantine. Sew up the end portion of the 
skin and place in a braising-pan upon a mirepoix bed. 
Braise till tender in the oven or over the fire, basting it 
frequently. Un truss and cut up into rather thick slices. 
Dish up in a circle round spinach purfe, garnish with 
spinach by forcing out the spinach through a savoy-bag. 
Pour a little hot brown or demi-glace sauce round the 
base of the dish, and serve hot. 



Medallions de Volaille k la Cond6. 

(M6daillons of Chicken Breasts, Cond6 style.) 

2 chickens, larding bacon, 4 truffles, 6 small young 

carrots, 12 mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, \ pint supreme 

sauce, I white and 3 yolks of egg, i glass Mad ere, 



Entrees of Poultry. 131 

croutes of bread, a mirepoix, pepper and salt, | gill of 
cream. 

Remove the fillets from the chickens, cut them in twos, 
flatten and shape them into rounds. Lard them with 
larding bacon, put in a saute-pan with i oz. of butter, the 
mirepoix, i gill of chicken stock, and the wine. Season 
with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and 
braise in the oven for 20 minutes ; baste occasionally. 
Have ready a forcemeat made from the remaining 
chicken meat, well pounded, passed through a sieve, and 
mixed with the white of egg, a little whipped cream, and 
seasoning. Allow the fillets to cool, trim them a little, 
cover the surface with a layer of the forcemeat, orna- 
ment each with a rosette of truffle, range them in a 
saut^-pan, and poach in a slow oven for 20 minutes. The 
fillets should be well moistened with liquor, and covered 
with a piece of buttered paper. Have ready a julienne 
mixture of mushrooms, truffles and carrots, the latter 
being boiled in chicken stock, after being cut into julienne 
strips. Put all into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, 
saute well over the fire, season with salt and pepper, 
moisten with a little supreme sauce. Dress the julienne 
in the centre of a dish in the form of a pyramid, range 
the m6daillons round them. Sauce over with a well 
reduced supreme sauce in which the essence of the fillets 
has been incorporated. Garnish the dish round with 
bread croutons, cut in heart shapes, fried in butter and 
glazed. 

Mirepoix. 
A mirepoix consists of sliced carrot, onion, turnip, ham 
or bacon, savoury herbs ; this usually forms the founda- 
tion of brown soups and sauces, braised meat, etc. 



Timbale de Volaille ^ la Toulouse (Cold). 
(Chicken Timbale, Toulouse style.) 
I lb. boiled boned fowl, i pint whipped cream, i| giUs 
aspic, I gherkin, aspic cream (see Sauces), 2 oz. cooked 



132 Recherche EntrSes. 

lean ham, i anchovy, i truffle, red chiUi, pepper, salt and 
cayenne. 

Free the chicken from skin and gristle and pound in a 
mortar till smooth. Wipe and bone the anchovy, pound 
with the above, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. 
Put the puree into a basin, mix in the whipped cream, 
season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, paprika, 
or Krona pepper. 

Decorate a timbale mould, previously masked with 
aspic, tastefully with stars of truffle and fancifully cut 
slices of chiUi or pimientos and gherkin. Coat the inside 
of the mould completely with a layer of aspic cream 
(using two table-spoonfuls of cream to one of aspic). 
Whisk the aspic jelly to a froth and mi.x with the puree, 
adding any trimmings of truffle finely chopped. Finish 
with a layer of aspic cream, and put on the ice to set. 
Unmould the timbale on to a cold dish and garnish neatly 
with seasoned small salad. 



Timbales de Volaille a la Rothschild (Gold). 
(Chicken Timbales, Rothscliild style.) 

I small fowl, J a sweetbread braised, 3 truffles, Madere 
sauce, I giU cream, aspic jelly, supreme sauce (see Sauces), 
seasoning. 

Mask the inside of 8 small timbale moulds, with a thin 
layer of aspic jelly ; when set, decorate the bottom and 
sides neatly with thinly cut slices of truffle. 

Place the moulds on the ice to get quite set, then mask 
over the decoration with a layer of well reduced supreme 
sauce, into which 2-3 leaves of dissolved gelatine have 
been incorporated. Remove the fillets and wing portion 
from the fowl, and pound till smooth in a mortar ; adding 
the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a grate of 
nutmeg. Rub this through a fine sieve, and place on the 
ice. Butter 8 timbale moulds, a size smaller than those 



XXV. 




DAKIOLES DE VOLAILLE A l.A DIPLOMATE. (p. 129.) 




CHARTREUSE DE FILETS DE VEAU .4 LA CRfiCY. (p. 70.) 



Entrees of Poultry. 133 

before used, with the farce just prepared ; partially fill 
the moulds, leaving the centre part hollow. 

Prepare a ragout with the sweetbread, cut in dice, 
mixed with the trimmings of truffles chopped up coarsely, 
and moisten with a little sauce. Put about a dessert- 
spoonful of this into each mould, and fill up with the re- 
mainder of the farce. Poach first on the stove, and then 
in the oven, for zo minutes in all. When half cold, turn 
out the little timbales on to a cloth, and put on the ice to 
get cold quickly. Place these carefully into the pre- 
pared masked and decorated moulds, and fill the sides 
with half-set aspic. Allow the moulds to set firm, then 
turn out, and dish up smartly. 



Timbale de Volaille h la Pasqual (Cold). 
(Chicken Timbale, Pasqual style.) 

t tender fowl, 4 eggs (4 yolks and 2 whites), 2 oz. 
panade, J a pint double cream, seasoning, carmine for 
colouring, 3 oz. butter, ij gills aspic jelly, slices of truffles, 
J pint white chaud-froid sauce, celery, tongue, i glass 
Madeira, foie gras, mushrooms, i gill rich tomato sauce, 
semolina or rice socle, i cock's comb, and 2 large truffles. 

Bone the fowl, free the meat from skin and sinews and 
make a good rich stock from the bones and skin. Pound 
the meat in a mortar, adding, when fine enough, the yolks 
of eggs, panade, and butter ; add seasoning to taste, 
mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the 
cream and beaten whites of eggs, either before or after 
the puree is produced ; this forms the farce. Divide it 
equally, and colour one part with tomato puree to give it 
a bright red colour. Spread the prepared farce into 
buttered flat moulds, and poach them from 20-25 min- 
utes. When done and cooled, cut it into slices, and then 
into neat triangular shapes (sufficient to decorate the 
mould) . Mask a large timbale mould with a thin layer of 
aspic, decorate it with truffle, cut into small rounds, and 



134 Recherche Entrees. 

alternate slices of red and white farce. Next, coat the 
inside of the mould with a chaud-froid sauce, into which 
a little cream and saffron essence has been introduced. 
Prepare a ragout of foie gras, truffles, champignons, 
celery, and the remainder of cooked farce, all cut into 
slices, and moisten with a glass of Madeira, aspic and 
tomato sauce, also additional seasoning if required. 
Fill the mould with this and place it on the ice to set. 
Have ready a neat border of cooked cold semolina or 
rice to form the base or socle ; place this in a cold dish, 
decorate the base with creamed butter, suitably coloured. 
Unmould the timbale, place it carefully in the centre of 
the dish. Insert a silver skewer, replete with a cock's 
comb and the whole truffle in the centre of the timbale, 
and serve. 



Palmettes de Volaille, Valeska (Cold). 

I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, | gill stock, \ 
gill cream, \ gill bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of 
eggs, ij gills white chaud-froid sauce, meat glaze, 8 
oblong flat or kite-shaped souffl6 cases. 

Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, 
etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a 
saute-pan. Add the stock, cover with buttered paper, 
and poach in the oven for 15 minutes. Take up, drain 
and press the fillets. 

With the remainder of the fowl, prepare a light souffl6 
farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, whites of eggs 
(previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a 
buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain- 
marie in the oven. When done, unmould and let cool. 

Cut the chicken fiUets into the shape of the paper cases, 
in a similar manner cut the chicken souffle, and sandwich 
them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask 
each carefully with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate 



Entrees of Poultry. 135 

afterwards with thinly cut fanciful shces of truffle and 
tarragon leaves. Place a httle small cress or other salad, 
previously seasoned, in each of the cases ; dress the 
palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. 

The appearance of the palmettes is greatly improved 
by coating them when finished with a thin layer of half- 
set aspic. 



Bombe de Volaille d la Trianon (Cold). 
(Chicken Fillets, Tnanoii style.) 

The breast and wings of one large boiled fowl, 2 pickled 
sheep's tongues boiled, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 small cab- 
bage lettuces, I pint aspic, -| pint lemon mayonnaise 
(see Sauces), tarragon and chervil, endive or Batavia, 
seasoning, sauce Trianon (see Sauces). 

Mask a bombe mould with aspic and decorate the sides 
with half moon or triangular shaped slices of chicken and 
tongue, and line with aspic cream. Mask also a border 
mould with aspic and decorate the sides with slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, chervil and endive or Batavia shreds. 
Cut the remainder of chicken free from skin and bones 
and the tongues into small thin slices. Mix these care- 
fully with lettuce and other salad cut up small and egg 
slices. Season with salt and pepper and dress with 
mayonnaise, mixed with a little aspic to help set. 

Fill up the prepared bombe mould with this and put it 
on the ice. Fill the border with the remainder of chicken, 
etc., and salad and place on the ice to set. Unmould the 
border on a flat entree dish, put round crouton in centre, 
and place the bombe shape upon this. Garnish with 
sections of lettuce hearts, endive, etc., and serve with 
sauce Trianon (see Sauces). 



C6telettes de Volaille a la Melba (Cold). 
(Chiclcen Cutlets, Melba style.) 
I large Surrey fowl, or young capon, 2 oz. butter, i 
terrine foie gras, seasoning, red and white chaud-froid 



136 Recherche Entrees. 

sauces (see Sauces), aspic, Melba salad for centre of dish, 
suitable socle for serving the cutlets on. 

Remove the wing and breast portions of the fowl, 
flatten the pieces with a wetted cutlet bat. Divide them, 
flatten out again, and place each in a wetted cutlet 
mould, then place them on the ice. 

Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and unmould 
the little cutlet shapes, and season with salt. Cover with 
buttered paper, and cook for 15 or 20 minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. Let them get cold. Braize the trimming and 
leg portions of the fowl in the usual way. When cooked, 
free from skin and bone, and pound the meat in a mortar 
till quite smooth, adding at the same time a similar 
quantity of foie gras and about i oz. of fresh butter. 
Season well with aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. 
Mask the top of each cutlet thickly with this farce, so as 
to give them a nice bomb-shaped appearance. Place 
them on the ice to get firm. Lastly coat one half of the 
cutlets with white chaud-froid sauce, and the other half 
with red chaud-froid sauce. When set, mask with aspic. 

To Dish up. — Have ready a suitably carved rice socle, 
surmounted with cup or other receptacle for the salad. 
Dress the cutlets round the base of the socle, with the 
salad on top, on the centre of which place a small peeled 
and hollowed out tomato, filled with salad and aspic. 

Round the base of the dish range neatly very small 
peeled tomatoes, likewise filled with chopped aspic, also 
small ball shapes made of the salad mixture and aspic. 
Lastly ornament the dish with fancifully cut slices, 
triangles, or other shapes of set aspic. 

(Adopted from M. C. J. Corblet's MSS.) 



Salade Melba. 

This consists of plainly boiled rice cooked in salted 
water with the addition of a little lemon juice. When the 



Entrees of Poultry. 137 

rice is drained and cold enough, season it with pepper, 
and mix with the necessary proportion of oil and vinegar, 
Add to it some peeled ripe tomatoes, freed from pulp, and 
cut into very small julienne strips. Lastly mix with the 
salad a good dose of paprika, and if liked a little pimiento 
cut in very tiny strips. 



Filets de Poulet £l la Holder. 
(Chicken Fillets, Helder style.) 

2 plump spring chickens, | pint preserved c6pes, or 
morilles, 12 small potatoes, J gill veloute sauce, i table- 
spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, brandy, i oz. butter, i 
dessert-spoonful flour, chicken stock, seasoning, bread 
croutons. 

Remove carefully the fillets of the 2 chickens.skin them 
and place them on a buttered saute-pan, pour over a 
table-spoonful of old brandy, and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little chicken 
stock, cover with a buttered paper and poach in the oven 
for 15 minutes. Take up the fillets and keep hot, pour 
off the liquor in the saute-pan, and melt in it the re- 
mainder of the butter. To this add the flour, cook a 
little, and add |- gill chicken stock, the liquor and the 
meat glaze or Lemco. Cook for 10 minutes and strain. 
Return to the saute-pan and place in the chicken fillets, 
cook them gently for another 15 minutes. Have ready 
some heart shapes of fried bread croutons, dress the fillets 
on these in the form of a border on a round entr6e dish. 
Heap up the cepes or morilles in the veloute sauce, and 
put this ragout in the centre. Sauce over the whole 
carefully and send to table hot. 



Chapon d la Bechamel (Cold). 
(Cold Capon, B6ehamel style.) 

Cook a large capon trussed for boiling in seasoned 

white stock. When done, drain it well and let cool. 



138 RechercM Entries. 

Mask it with white chaud-froid sauce composed of 
bechamel cream and aspic. Cook also 6 oz. of rice in 
sufficient water to make a fairly firm mixture. Pound it 
in a mortar, and press into an oval-shaped fiat mould ; 
when cold turn out and carve the side with a sharp knife. 
Place this on an oval dish and put the prepared capon 
upon it. Insert in breast part a skewer or hatelet with 
cock's comb, truffle, and a few sauce-coated mushroom 
heads. Repeat the cooking operation and lastly mask 
with a thin layer of aspic. Put some triangular-shaped 
pieces of set aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. 



Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses (Cold). 
(Small Capon Mousselines in Cases.) 

Prepare a cream-like mixture the same as directed for 
" Darioles de Creme de Volaille " on page 140, using the 
remains of boiled capon in place of chicken. Line 8 flat 
bouche moulds with a thin layer of aspic and decorate 
each mould with a star of truffle placed in the centre, with 
small clots of truffle around it. Next coat the moulds 
with a layer of aspic cream, and fill, when set, with the 
capon mixture. Place the moulds on the ice to set. 

Put a little seasoned mixed salad, cut very small, into 
china or paper souffle cases, unmould the mousseUnes 
and place each on the salad into the cases. Garnish the 
edges with sprigs of endive. Dish up, and serve cold. 



Caneton h, la Rouennaise. 

(Rouen Duckling.) "" 

Truss a Rouen duckling for roasting, prepare a farce 
with 4 oz. of bacon, chopped and fried lightly with 6 
duck livers, i small onion blanched and chopped. 
Pound all when cold, rub through a sieve, and add i 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley and mix well together. 
Stuff the duckling with this preparation, retruss it and 
roast in a fireproof earthenware roasting pan. 



Entries of Poultry. 139 

' For the sauce or gravy use i table-spoonful of liver 
purfe, I gill of gravy or thin demi-glace sauce, the juice 
of half an orange, and i small glass of port wine. Boil up, 
season with salt and cayenne, then strain, reheat, and 
serve separately with the duckling, which must be dished 
on a croute of fried bread and garnished with finely fried 
straw potatoes. 

Note.— It is most essential that the duckUng should be 
roasted " saignant " or underdone. 



Dinde k la Florentine. 

(Turkey, Florentine style.) 
Truss a small young turkey the same as for boiling, 
cover the breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham, 
upon this place 2-3 thin sUces of lemon and a small bay- 
leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper 
and place the bird breast upwards in a stew-pan large and 
deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with 
slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery and a little savoury 
herbs. Add an ounce of butter, a pint of well seasoned 
stock and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring 
it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place 
it in a hot oven and cook the bird tUl tender, allowing 
about 20 minutes to each pound. Baste the bird fre- 
quently. When done, take up the turkey, remove the 
paper and strain the liquor into another pan, add i pint 
of tomato sauce, boil up and skim, then put the turkey 
into the sauce and reheat it. To serve as an entree cut 
the bird into the required number of portions, dish up 
neatly and pour over the hot sauce. 



Pigeons k la Valence. 

3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 chicken livers, 2 trufHes, 8 pre- 
served mushrooms, a teaspoonful chopped parsley, a 
small sliced carrot, a small sliced onion, a small bouquet 
of herbs, i dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, i egg, i table- 



140 RechercM Entrees. 

spoonful bread-crumbs, 2 oz. larding bacon, 2 07. butter, 
I small glass of sherry or Marsala, J pint stock, J pint 
demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. 

Make a forcemeat of the bread-crumbs, par-boil the 
livers, half of the mushrooms, one truffle, salt and pepper. 
Fill the pigeons with the forcemeat, truss them and lard 
the breast portion with strips of larding bacon. Put the 
onion, carrot and herbs into a saute-pan with a 
little stock, place the birds on top ; cook them 
in the oven for about 30 minutes. Toss the remaining 
mushrooms and truffle minced in the butter. Add the 
rest of the stock and the sauce, simmer for 15 minutes, 
dish up the birds and keep hot. Remove the fat from 
the sauce, boil up ; add the lenion juice and wine, re- 
duce a little, and strain. Cut the pigeons into neat 
portions and dish up, pour over the prepared sauce and 
serve. 



Darioles de Cr6me de Volaille (Cold). 
(Small Chicken Creams.) 

\ boiled fowl, 2 table-spoonfuls double cream, i small 
terrine of foie gras pat 6, i hard-boiled yolk of egg, 2 oz. 
cooked ox-tongue, J gill bechamel sauce, \ pint aspic 
jelly, seasoning. 

Remove the skin and bones from the fowl, cut up the 
meat, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, then add 
the cream, the egg yolk, and the foie gras (from which 
the lard and truffle pieces have been removed) ; work 
thoroughly in a mortar and rub through a fine wire sieve 
into a basin. Heat up the sauce, add double the 
quantity of aspic and mix with the prepared puree. 
Season to taste with a pinch or two of aromatic spice. 

Mask 8 small dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with 
truffles and pimiento or chillies and line thickly with it. 
Cut the tongue into fine shreds, add the truffles cut 
likewise and mix ; put this in la3'ers in the centre of 



XXVI. 




PETITS CHOUX A LA LORRATNE. (p. 43.^ 




SUPEEMES DE SARCELLE A L'ORANGE. (/'•I57-) 



Entrees of Poultry. 141 

the moulds. Pour a little of the remaining mixture 
between each layer, when filled put the moulds on the 
ice or in a very cold place. Turn out the darioles, dish 
up, and garnish with chopped aspic. 



SoufB6 de Volaille h, la Hollandaise. 
(Soutafe of Chicken, Duteh style.) 

\ lb. raw chicken, \ lb. raw lean veal, 2 eggs, i gill 
cream, pepper and salt, i oz. finely chopped ham, i gill 
bechamel sauce. 

Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut it into small 
pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth. Add one 
whole egg and the yolk of the second egg, mix thoroughly, 
adding at the same time half the cream and enough salt 
and pepper to taste. Rub all through a fine sieve. 
Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it gently 
into the above mixture, adding also the remainder of the 
cream, which may be whipped, if liked. Have ready a 
well buttered plain charlotte mould ; put the preparation 
into the mould. Fix round it a band of buttered paper, 
and steam for about 45 minutes. Turn out on a hot 
dish, sauce over carefully with hot white sauce (bechamel 
or supreme). Decorate tastefully with chopped ham 
and serve. The whole weight of the meat required for 
this dish can be made up with chicken only, if liked. 



Canard aux Olives. 
(Braised Duck with Olives.) 

I large tender duck, 6 oz.. streaky bacon, | oz. butter, \ 
giU white wine, J pint brown sauce, i gill gravy, about 2 
doz. French olives, i bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt, a 
few half-moon shapes of bread croutons, meat glaze. 

Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of 
bacon, put in the duck previously trussed, season with 
pepper and salt, spread the butter on top, add the bou- 
quet of herbs, and bake in a hot oven, to acquire a nice 



142 Recherche Entrees. 

colour (the duck must only be partly cooked). Take up, 
cut into neat joints and put them in a clean stew-pan. 
Chop the carcase into small pieces and return to the pan 
in which the duck was baked ; fry over the fire a few 
minutes, pour off the fat, add the sauce and gravy and 
cook for ten minutes. Strain over the pieces of duck, 
and allow the whole to simmer gently for about 20 
minutes. Stone the olives, put them in a stew-pan with 
the wine, boil up and add to the above. Simmer a little 
longer, skim well, dish up, and garnish with a few bread 
crofitons brushed over with meat glaze. 



Quenelles de Canard h, la Bulgarienne. 
(Quenelles of Duck, Bulgarian style.) 

Prepare a light farce (mousse character), composed of 
the fiUets of raw duck and 6 oz. of lean veal or beef, 
adding to it the white of an egg, and about a gill of cream. 
Season with salt and pepper, and sieve. Blanch a piece 
of beef marrow, and cut it into 8 small portions. 

Butter 8 bouche or kidney moulds, line each half with 
the prepared farce, and place a piece of marrow in each, 
also about i teaspoonful of Madere sauce, then close up 
the moulds. Where the special moulds are not available, 
use a large spoon, and make up quenelle shapes with the 
marrow and sauce in centre. Poach the quenelles in stock 
or seasoned water, then drain, and let cool on a sieve. 
Egg and breadcrumb them carefully, and fry to a golden 
brown in hot fat or nut oil. Dish them up in a nest- 
shaped basket of straw potatoes or nouiUes. Garnish 
with crisp parsley and serve with sauce Bulgarienne. 
(See Sauces.) 

Note. — As an alternative, poach the quenelles made 
in the kidney moulds, dish them up on a border of potato 
pur^e, and glaze over with Madere sauce, flavoured with 
orange rind and juice, put a potato cup in the centre 
of the dish and fill with green peas. 



Entrees of Poultry. 143 

Darioles de Canard h la St. Germain. 
(Darioles of Duck, St Germain style.) 

I duck (large), \ pint well reduced Madera sauce, 2 
eggs, I gill of cream, i oz. panade, \ a small glass of port 
wine, I dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, 2 tanger- 
ines, I lb. of rough puff paste for cassolette or thin 
tartlet crusts, salt and pepper, | pint of green peas 
cooked, flavoured with butter and green mint, sauce 
Zingara (see Sauces). 

Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out 8 to 10 rounds, 
with a fluted cutter, and line with them the same number 
of tartlet or cassolette pans, bake them to a golden b'-own 
and keep by. Remove the meat from the duck, free it 
from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till quite 
fine, add the panade, the sauce and egg yolks. When 
the mixture is thoroughly blended and sufficiently 
pounded rub it through a fine sieve (hair or silk). Melt 
the red currant jelly in the port wine and stir into the 
farce. Season to taste and add the beaten white of an 
egg, the cream, and the juice of half a tangerine, also a 
little of its rind grated finely. Butter 8 to 10 special 
dariole moulds, fiU them with the above farce, and poach 
in the oven for 30 minutes. Unmould each into a 
cassolette paste crust, lined with a little pea puree, fill 
up the cavity of each dariole with a rich pea pur6e or 
whole peas nicely flavoured. Reheat them in the oven, 
place a section of tangerine, skinned and free from pips 
and glazed on top of the peas, dish up and serve with 
Zingara sauce. 



Salmi de Canard aux Navets. 

(Braised Duck witli Turnips.) 

Truss two small or one large duck, the same as for 

roasting, put it in a roasting-tin with a little butter or 

lard, and roast partially. Let cool, untruss, and cut it 



144 Recherche Entries. 

into neat joints. Prepare a brown sauce, strain and put 
in a stew-pan. Add the pieces of duck, and about three 
turnips, cut into quarters and previously fried in butter. 
Season with a little pepper and salt, add a glass of 
Madeira or sherry, and simmer gently for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Dish up, garnish with glazed fried bread 
croiitons, and serve. 



Mousselines de Caneton a la Moresco (Cold). 
(Mousselines of Duckling with Green Peas.) 

I small duckling, 2 hard-boiled yolks of egg, \ giU 
bechamel or veloute sauce, seasoning, i dessert-spoonful 
meat glaze, i pint cooked green peas, 2-3 table-spoonfuls 
cream, 2 oz. cooked ham, i| gills aspic, cold cucumber 
sauce (see Sauces). 

Truss and braise the duckling in the usual manner, 
when done, skin it whilst warm, cut off the fiUet or breast 
portion, and mince the ham ; pound both in a mortar 
till quite smooth. Incorporate the egg-yolks, the cream, 
and a gill of cooked green peas, season to taste, and rub 
the pur^e through a fine sieve. Work in half a gill of 
aspic, to which the meat glaze has been added, and the 
white sauce. 

Mask the inside of 12 peapod-shaped moulds with a 
thin layer of aspic, and decorate with green peas. Let 
these set on the ice, then fill them with the mixture above 
mentioned, and keep on the ice for about three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Cook enough semolina or cornflour in seasoned milk to 
fill a suitably shaped oval mould, which is to form the 
base or support for the little shapes. When this is set 
place it on an oval dish. Unmould the shapes, and range 
them neatly on top of the semolina or rice shape. 

Serve this dish with a boat of cold cucumber sauce. 




TIMBALE DE RIS DE VEAU A LA REINE. (/>. JJ .) 




CHARTREUSE AU CHAUDFROID DE GIEIER. (p. 167.) 



Entrees of Potdtry. 145 

Caneton t la Boh^mienne. 
(Duckling, Bohemian style.) 

I good-sized duckling, 2 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, i 
carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, | pint espagnole or demi- 
glace sauce, i glass port wine, parsley, salt, 
pepper and nutmeg to season, glac6 cherries, i| gills 
green pea puree, 2 table-spoonfuls cream, semolina 
croutons. 

Bone the duckling, spread it on the board cut side 
upwards, season well, roll up and tie with string. Saut6 
it in butter, add the bacon and vegetables and finish it in 
the oven. Take up the duckling, pour off the fat from 
the pan, put in the brown sauce and the wine, boil for 
10 minutes, skim and strain, place the duclding in the 
sauce, and keep hot. 

Mix the pea puree with the cream, heat up and season 
well. 

Cut the duckling into neat joints, and range them 
on an oblong dish. Sauce over carefully, place the 
prepared croutons filled with the pea puree round the 
dish, put half a glace cherry on the centre of the pea 
puree and serve. 



Supreme de Canetoti k la Souvaroil (Cold). 
(Supreme of Duckling, Souvaroff style.) 

I duckling, i small chicken, i egg, i giU cream, i oz. 
butter, I smaU glass port wine, 2 shallots, i small terrine 
foie gras, J pint aspic, i glass marsala or sherry, J lb. 
green grapes, } giU tomato pulp concentrated, J gill 
Bearnaise sauce, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. 

Par-roast the duckling, then remove the breast portions 
carefully, cook them — i.e., braise them — with a small 
mirepoix, and the carcase of duck made into a fumet. 
When done, take up the fillets, glaze them, and keep on 
the ice. Pound the chicken meat free from skin and bone 
in a mortar ; when fine enough, add the trimmings of 

K 



146 Recherche Entrees. 

duck from which skin and bone have been removed, also 
the foie gras. Pound all together and season to taste ; 
add about half a gill of demi-glace and one white of egg, 
and rub through a fine sieve. Lastly, incorporate enough 
cream to make a very light farce ; test it, and fill into a 
buttered oval-shaped flan ring, or flat mould, cover 
with buttered paper and place in the oven. 

When cold, turn out the shape on to a cold entree dish, 
spread over with a layer of tomato sauce set with aspic ; 
a layer of Bearnaise, also set with aspic. Upon this 
range neatly the fillets of duck. Mask them well with 
aspic, reduced with the Marsala wine. Remove the 
skin and pips from the grapes, toss them in a little port 
wine and then dip them in half-set aspic. Range them 
in the form of a chain or otherwise on top of the fillets of 
duck. Place a strip of pimiento here and there to give 
the dish additional effect, and serve. 

Fumet of Duck. — To make the fumet of duck, chop 
up the bones and fry them in a little butter and the 
shallots (chopped), adding a small bouquet of herbs ; 
then moisten with port wine and a little stock, reduce 
well and strain. 



Pigeons Saut§s aux Salsiflts. 
(Stewed Pigeons with Salsify.) 
Truss two Bordeaux pigeons and put them in a saute- 
pan with an ounce of butter and 2 oz. of minced bacon. 
Season with salt and pepper, and cook them over a quick 
fire long enough to nicely brown the pigeons. Moisten 
with a gill of gravy, cover the pan and cook the birds in 
the oven for half an hour or till tender. Wash and scrape 
a bundle of salsify, cut them into three-inch lengths, 
and cook them till tender in plenty of salted water con- 
taining a table-spoonful of flour. When done, drain 
them and reheat in a little butter, season with salt, 



Entrks of Poultry . 147 

pepper and finely chopped parsley. Untruss the pigeons 
and cut them up into neat joints. Dress them in the 
centre of an entree dish and strain over the sauce pre- 
viously freed from fat. Range the salsify neatly round 
the pigeons and serve hot. 



Pigeons de Bordeaux ^ la Maltaise. 
(Bordeaux Pigeons, Maltese style.) 

2 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 
I table-spoonful port wine, 6 fresh eggs, i oz. butter, i gill 
rich brown sauce, i gill rich veloute or supreme sauce, 
seasoning. 

Truss and roast the pigeons in the usual manner. Re- 
move bones and skin, and pound the meat in a mortar 
till quite smooth ; then add the butter, and season to 
taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till 
hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottom 
to make them stand, cut also a piece off the top so as to 
scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pigeon 
pur^e again into the mortar, and mix the whole thorough- 
ly with this and the brown sauce ; then rub all through 
a fine sieve and add the wine (the latter may be omitted 
if liked). Put the prepared farce in a forcing bag, and 
fill the whites of egg shapes by means of this. Place each 
on an artichoke bottom (fond d'artichaut), force a thin 
border of farce round the edge, and range them on a 
buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, 
previously placing a buttered paper over the top ; then 
dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or velout6 
sauce. 



148 Recherche Entrees. 



Entrees of Game* 



Epigrammes de Faisan aux Petits Pois. 
(Epigrammes ot Pheasant with Green Peas.) 

Remove the fillets from two pheasants, flatten them with 
a cutlet bat, trim them into neat heart shapes and season 
with pepper and salt. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a 
saute-pan, put in the fillets and fry a little on both sides 
until firm ; then press lightly until cold. Trim each 
epigramme neatly, immerse in nearly cold AUemande 
sauce, then set them to cool. Next egg and crumb 
them with fresh bread-crumbs or Panurette. Braise 
the carcases of the birds, remove the meat, and prepare 
a farce with 2 whites of eggs, a soaked French roll, 
cream and seasoning. With this same fill up a 
buttered border mould and cook, i.e., steam in the oven. 

Fry the epigrammes in clarified butter or lard, insert 
short pieces of macaroni to imitate cutlet bones, in the 
small ends. Dish up in a circle on the forcemeat border, 
and fill the centre with cooked green peas, previously 
tossed in butter and seasoned with salt, pepper and a 
pinch of castor sugar. Pour some demi-glace sauce 
round the dish, and serve hot. 



Terrine de Faisan k la Cossart. 

I plump pheasant, | lb. calf's liver, i shallot, 4 oz. 
bacon, a bouquet of savoury herbs, i oz. butter, i yolk of 
egg, 2-3 table-spoonfuls of rich espagnole sauce, 4 slices 
of fat bacon, i terrine or tin of foie gras, i glass of white 
wine, \ pint of demi-glace sauce, 18 chestnuts, raw ham, 
seasoning. 



Entrees of Game. 149 

Bone the pheasant, sUt the boned bird down the back 
and place it cut side upwards on a board. Have ready a 
farce made by slicing the liver, and tossing it in a saute- 
pan with the butter, and finely minced shallot. Add the 
bouquet garni, add also the bacon finely sliced, and fry 
with the liver, then moisten with a little stock and mush- 
room liquor. Pound whilst hot in a mortar, removing 
the herbs ; when smooth, add the sauce, and season to 
taste. Rub this through a fine sieve, and spread over the 
pheasant. Cut the foie gras, freed from fat, into fairly 
thick slices, and place them on top of the farce, roll up 
the bird neatly ,_^ and tie up with string. Put it in a fire- 
proof terrine or casserole, lined with fat bacon, spread a 
little butter over the top, cover the pan, and cook in a 
fairly hot oven for about 40 minutes, basting the bird 
occasionally. When done, pour away the fat, and take 
out the pheasant. 

Cut up the carcase, and fry it in the remaining fat, 
adding a little butter if necessary. Pour off the fat when 
fried, and moisten the carcase with a little good stock 
or gravy, and the wine. Boil for 20 minutes, then strain 
and add the sauce demi-glace. 

Par-roast, peel and boil the chestnuts in stock, and finish 
in glaze. Cut some raw ham into slices, and fry in butter. 
Put the cooked pheasant with the prepared sauce in a 
convenient si^ed terrine, also the chestnuts and ham. 
Cook for another ten minutes or so, place the terrine on a 
dish, covered with a folded napkin, and send to table 
hot. 



Gradins de Faisan ^ la Manxelle (Cold). 
Half a cooked pheasant, i pint aspic, 2 large truffles, 
4 oz. chestnut puree, i gill of brown chaudfroid sauce, 
3 table-spoonfuls melted meat glaze, seasoning, socle of 
rice, salad for garnish, set aspic for garnish. 



ISO Recherche Entrks. 

Coat 8-10 very small bouche or dariole moulds with 
aspic jelly, decorate the bottom of each with a bold star 
of truffle. Pound the meat of the pheasant till smooth, 
add to it the chestnut puree, season to taste, and 
moisten with chaudfroid sauce and a little cream, 
then rub through a sieve and add the meat glaze. 
Spread this on a clean baking sheet about J inch in 
thickness, and place on the ice to set. Then, by 
means of a paste cutter, cut out as many rounds as may 
be required, and fill the prepared moulds with these, 
allowing a thin layer of aspic between each round of 
puree. Turn out when set, and arrange neatly on the 
rice socle ; fill the centre with a well dressed salad, and 
garnish the base of the dish with set aspic cut into fancy 
shapes. 



Faisan Brais^ aux Choux. 

(Braised Pheasant with Cabbage.) 

I brace pheasants, i large or two small cabbages, \ lb- 
streaky bacon, i oz. butter, \ lb. Strasbourg sausage, i 
onion stuck with 2 cloves, i bouquet garni, i quart rich 
stock, seasoning. 

Pluck, draw and singe the pheasants, cut off the leg 
portions and truss them as for boiling. Place them on a 
roasting tin, spread the butter over the breasts and roast 
for 10 minutes in a quick oven. Trim and wash the 
cabbage and blanch for 13 minutes in fast boiling salted 
water, then take up and drain in a colander. Line a 
braising pan with thin slices of bacon, upon this place a 
layer of cabbage, now add the onion and the bouquet 
garni, also the stock, season to taste with salt mignon- 
ette (coarse) pepper, cover the pan and cook contents 
slowly for a full hour or longer. About 20 minutes before 
serving, place in the sausage cut in rather thick slices. 
Remove the scum and fat from the liquor. To serve 



Entrees of Game. 151 

range a bed of cabbage on a round dish, cut the pheasant 
into joints and place them round the cabbage in the form 
of a crown, range the bacon round the base and distribute 
the sausage on top. Pour some of the gravy over the 
dish, and send to table. 



Petites Cremes de Faisan (Cold). 
(Small Pheasant Creams.) 

6 oz. cooked pheasant meat, | pint veloute or allemande 
sauce, I 07. gelatine, i gill cream, i gill aspic, i gherkin, 
I hard-boiled white of egg, -| teaspoonful chopped lemon 
rind, seasoning. 

Mask the inside of 8 or 10 little timbales or dariole 
moulds with aspic jelly, decorate each with little fanci- 
fully cut pieces of gherkin and white of egg, 'and put on 
the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, 
and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the 
sauce, soak the gelatine and let it dissolve in the sauce, 
mix the sauce (strained) with the pounded meat, 
add the lemon rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg to taste. Rub through a fine hair sieve ; 
when cooled a little, whip the cream and add to the 
mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place them on the 
ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with 
chopped aspic, and serve. 



Cailles en Casserole. 

(Stuffed Quails, braised in Casserole.) 
Six quails, i gill milk, 2 oz. butter, i cupful of bread- 
crumbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 yolks of eggs, parsley, i 
shallot, 3-4 chicken livers, about 6 slices of bacon, i gill 
demi-glace or Madera sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the sauce and 
the milk in a stew-pan, add half an ounce of butter, a 
small bay-leaf, salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg ; 
when boiling stir in the bread-crumbs (a small cupful). 



152 Recherche Entrees. 

and simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay -leaf and stir 
in the egg-yolks. Cut up small the chicken livers, saut6 
them in butter in which the finely chopped shallot has 
been blended, season with pepper, salt and aromatics, 
and rub the liver, etc., through a sieve. Mix the puree 
with the bread-crumbs, etc., and stuff the bird with this. 
Wrap each quaU in a thin slice of bacon, place them in an 
earthenware pan (casserole) with the remainder of but- 
ter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off 
the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi-glace or 
Madeira). 



Cailles Roties sous la Cendre. 
(Quails cooked in Paste Crust.) 

Bone 6-8 quails, stuff each with a light farce, made of 
chicken and foie gras, insert also in the centre of each 
bird a good-sized piece of truffle previously soaked in 
brandy, cover the breast portion of each bird with lard- 
ing bacon and a vine leaf, and wrap up each in a thinly 
rolled out piece of short crust or rough puff paste. 

Place the birds thus prepared in a braising pan with a 
close-fitting grooved lid. Fill the lid with burning cinders 
or charcoal, and cook the birds in this manner over a 
charcoal fire for about 30-35 minutes. 

Where this process cannot be adopted, cook the quails 
in a sharp oven in a closed roasting or baking pan. 

To serve, place the birds in their paste crust, bacon, 
and vine leaf, intact on a dish round a croustade of 
bread, garnish the dish with cresses, and serve with very 
finely cut fried straw potatoes. 



Cailles en Caisses k r Aspic (Cold). 
(Quails in Cases with Savoury Jelly.) 
4 quails, i lb. liver farce, aspic jelly, a mirepoix, i 
glass sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls meat glaze, soufH6 cases. 



Entrees of Game. 153 

Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each 
bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up securely and neatly 
each bird in a piece of muslin, and tie ends with string. 
Put the mirepoix, consisting of half a carrot, half a turnip, 
one onion, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, bouquet garni, 
six ounces bacon, all cut up in small squares in a saut6- 
pan with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, 
put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently from 
20 to 30 minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut 
each bird in half lengthwise ; have ready at hand some 
oval soufHe paper or china cases, line each with a little 
dressed salad, mask well the surface of each bird with 
dissolved meat glaze, and when set coat over with thin 
layers of aspic jelly ; place each half (cut side down) in a 
souffle case, garnish round the sides with chopped aspic 
jelly and serve. 

SoufQ^s de Cailles ^ la Mar^ehale. 
(Quail Souffles, MaT6chale style.) 

6 quails, J lb. of lean veal, J lb. of calf's liver, i gill 
espagnole sauce, 2 eggs, i table-spoonful brandy, i table- 
spoonful Marsala, salt and pepper, i oz. butter, mirepoix 
of bacon, carrot, onion, etc., J pint of cooked asparagus 
tips or broad beans, 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, i gill demi- 
glace or Mad^re sauce (see Sauces). 

Bone the quails, make a fumet with the carcase and 
boil up with the stock, then strain. Cut the breast 
portion from the birds and braise them with a mirepoix, 
and butter in the usual manner ; toss the calf's liver in a 
little butter. Remove the skin from the remainder of 
quails and pound the meat in a mortar with the liver and 
the veal. When smooth add the egg yolks and the sauce. 
Season to taste and mix well, then rub through a fine 
sieve. Add the wine and brandy. Whisk up the whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with the farce. 



154 Recherche Entrees. 

Butter 12 smallj'oval dariole moulds and place in each a 
braised breast of quail, then fill up with the prepared 
farce and poach in the oven for about 40 minutes. Blanch 
and cook the rice in stock, finish it in butter and season to 
taste and mix carefully with the asparagus or broad 
beans. Arrange this in the form of a pyramid on a hot 
dish or shape a border with the rice previously seasoned 
and range the souffles on top with the vegetable garnish 
in centre of the dish, placing the quails souffles round it. 
Sauce over with demi-glace or Madere sauce, and serve 
hot. 



SoufB6s de Cailles a la Lusette. 
(Quail Souffles, Lusette style.) 

Pound the meat of four quails, free from skin and bone, 
and mix, whilst pounding, two ounces of cooked rice 
(rice boiled in stock and drained), and continue to pound 
till smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate 
with the puree, two yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of meat 
glaze, and the necessary seasoning. Stir this in a stew- 
pan over the fire until it is quite hot. Then add one or 
two truffles cut into slices and the stiff froth of 
two whites of eggs. Three-parts fill some buttered paper 
or china souffle cases, set them in a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes, and finish them in a sharp oven. 
They will take about twenty minutes in all. Brush over 
the top of each with meat glaze, i.e., glaze containing 
essence of quail, and send to table with a boat of Madere 
sauce. 



Cailles k la Grecque. 

(Braised Quails, Oreek style.) 

Procure 8 fat quails and bone them carefuUy, prepare 

a farce as follows : — Pound 2 oz. lean beef in a mortar, 

add to it 3 oz. bread-crumbs, soaked in cream, 2 egg 



Entrees of Game. 155 

yolks and the rind of | lemon, grated, a few sprigs of 
tarragon and 2 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. 

Into each quail put a teaspoonful of brandy, and half 
a truffle. Divide the prepared farce into 8 portions and 
put them into the body of the quails, then truss them. 
Have ready 3-4 young carrots, finely shredded and put 
in a saut6-pan with two ounces of butter, when melted 
put in the quails. Season them with salt and butter and 
cook covered over the fire for 10 minutes. Now add half 
a celery head cut finely, also half an onion and a bouquet 
garni. Moisten with a gill of rich veal stock, cover the 
birds with thin shoes of bacon and cook in a sharp oven 
for about 15 minutes. With the bones par- fried, make a 
rich essence, and when strained add it to x\ gills demi- 
glace sauce. Heat up in butter 8 artichoke bottoms and 
place a quail in each. Dish up in the form of a border 
and sauce over with the specially prepared sauce. Have 
ready some very finely cut potato straws, fried to a 
golden brown, and well drained. Heap these in the 
centre of the dish and serve. 

Note. — When only small portions are required, half a 
quail will suffice for each portion, in that case only 4 
quails wiU be needed for this dish. 



Cailles h, la Tosca. 
(Farced Quails, Tosca style.) 

4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 to 3 truffles, 
risotto for border, 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, 
carrot, onion, and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, 
Madere sauce. 

Bone the quails carefully, cook the bones in the 
stock to flavour it ; fill the empty space of the quails with 
game forcemeat (see recipe below), and insert the truffles 
cut into slices, and truss the birds, then place them in a 
saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon, 



156 Recherche Enirks. 

slice of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix), 
add a gill of stock and J gill of sauce, and cook in brisk 
oven for half an hour ; baste frequently. 

In the meantime, prepare the risotto (see recipe 
below), when finished, fill a border mould with it, and 
keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use preserved ones) with 
forcemeat of game, and poach them in stock. Lift out the 
quails, strain the sauce Uquor, skim weU, add to it the 
remainder of the sauce, reduce well, and season to taste. 
Unmould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each 
quail in two and dress them pyramidically in the centre 
of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on 
top of the risotto border. Pour the reduced sauce over 
the quails, and serve hot. 

Risotto. 

Wash in cold water ^ lb. of Carolina rice, dry it well and 
put it in a casserole or stew-pan containing 2 oz. melted 
butter. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes, with 
half small finely minced onion, the latter must not be 
allowed to brown. Now add about half-pint of stock, 
and let reduce, then add half pint tomato pulp, and more 
stock ; continue to cook whilst stirring. Season with 
salt, pepper and a table-spoonful of chopped pimientos. 
Lastly add about an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Nearly all the mixture should become absorbed by the 
time the rice is cooked. 



Game Forcemeat. 
(For Cailles ik la Tosca.) 
^ lb. game meat, free from skin and bone, i oz. butter, 
J lb. calf's liver, 2 oz. bacon, i shallot, J lb. soft bread 
(French roll) soaked in milk, i whole egg and 3 yolks, 
paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. 
Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut 



Entrees of Game. 157 

the bacon into thin sUces or dice. Melt the butter, add 
the shallot peeled and chopped, and saut6 the liver in 
this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the 
game, mince and pound both together till smooth. 
Extract all the liquid from the soaked bread and add it 
to the meat in the mortar, continue to pound ; now add 
the eggs, and mix thoroughly, season to taste with the 
above-named condiments. Rub all through a fine sieve. 
Poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to 
test its consistency, and use as directed. 



Cailles h. I'Indienne. 
(Braised Quails, Indian style.) 
Bone six small quails, and truss them again. Shred 
rather finely one small onion, a small carrot, a white 
celery stalk, and a few fresh mushrooms. Fry these with 
the bones in a braising pan with enough butter, till they 
are of a pale colour. Place the quails on top, and season ; 
baste with butter, and braise in the oven tiU they are 
done. About ten minutes before taking up the birds, 
add half a gill of Mad^re sauce, and half a gill of richly 
flavoured curry sauce (see Sauces). Dress the quails on 
a neatly shaped border of rice. Boil up the sauce, skim 
it well, and strain it over the quails. Serve hot. 



Supremes de Sarcelle h, I'Orange (Cold). 

I large widgeon or a wild duck, i oz. butter, \ gill 
cream, 6 small oranges (even size and smooth-skinned), 
I small foie gras naturel, aromatic seasoning, orange 
aspic jelly, rice socle, orange salad and pimiento, a few 
glace cherries, brown chaudfroid sauce. 

Steep the duck in boiling water for a few seconds, then 
bone it, using the carcass, etc., for stock. Cut the 
fillets into neat round shaped shces, season them with 
salt and Krona pepper, and saute them in butter over 



158 Recherche 'Entrees. 

a slow fire. When cooked, drain the fillets, and put them 
under press. In the remainder of butter, toss the trim- 
mings of the fillets and wings (meat only), season liber- 
ally, and pound in a mortar. Add to it the foie gras cut 
into slices, also the cream, and rub through a fine sieve. 
Incorporate enough orange aspic to just set this farce, 
which may need additional seasoning at this stage. 
This preparation is called a Mousse, and must be very 
light. 

Cut 4 of the oranges through the centre crossways with 
the point of a knife in zig-zag or fluted fashion, so that 
each orange forms two even parts. CarefuUy remove 
the interior of each, taking care not to break the skins. 
Fill the shapes carefully with the mousse, and smooth 
the top over neatly with a knife or spoon. Trim the 
rounds of duck fillets and coat one side of each with 
a thin-layer of the mousse. Mask over with chaudfroid 
sauce, and then with half-set orange aspic and place 
half a glace cherry in the centre of each. Dress the 
orange shapes on a socle of rice, and garnish the dish 
tastefully with orange salad made with the two 
remaining oranges, and pimiento strips. 



Sarcelle k la Moscovite. 

{Widgeon, Moscow style.) 

I widgeon, \ glass sherry, \ pint espagnole sauce, i gill 
stock, I large truffle, 8 small Godivean quenelles, i small 
bouquet of herbs, i oz. butter, i gill tomato sauce, 2 thin 
slices cooked ox-tongue, 6 mushrooms, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, fried bread croute, and puff paste fleurons. 

Singe, draw and wipe the bird, cut into neat joints 
(wings, legs, and breast portions). Chop up the carcase, 
and put it in a stew-pan with a little butter, cook over 
a quick fire to brown ; add the bouquet, moisten with 
stock, and let simmer for 15 minutes. Season the joints 



Entrees of Game. 159 

with salt, pepper and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. 
Heat up the butter in a saut6-pan, lay in the pieces, and 
cook over a brisk fire for a few minutes ; then add the 
sherry, cover, and reduce a little, then the sauce (espag- 
nole and tomato), and let simmer slowly till tender. 

Cut the tongue and truffle into narrow strips (julienne 
shape). Mince the mushrooms and put these together 
with the Godivean quenelles into a stew-pan, strain over 
the prepared gravy of the carcase, previously skimmed, 
add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten 
minutes. 

Skim the sauce containing the widgeon. Place the 
crotite of bread in the centre of a hot dish (this should be 
fixed on with a little batter or a mixture of flour and 
water). Dish up the widgeon as neatly as possible on 
the croute. Garnish with alternate groups of tongue and 
truffle, mushrooms and quenelles. Put the gravy with 
the sauce, boil up, strain the sauce, pour a little over and 
round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a 
sauce boat. Adjust some paper frills on the ends of the 
wings and legs, garnish the dish with glazed fleurons and 
serve. 



Canard Sauvage k la Nemrode. 
(Rolled, Stuiled and Braised Wild Duck.) 

I wild duck, duck's hver and foie gras, i orange, mire- 
poix for braising, i oz. butter, demi-glace and poivrade 
sauce, flavoured with port wine and red currant jelly, 
8-9 croustade or tartlet crusts, asparagus points and 
mushrooms, bechamel or supreme sauce, seasoning. 

Bone the duck, chop up the bones and fry them a little, 
then put in an earthenware braise pan with the mirepoix 
and butter. Make a farce with the duck's liver and foie 
gras, frying the former in butter in which two finely 
chopped shallots have been blended. Moisten with very 



i6o Recherche Entrees. 

little brown sauce, spread the farce over the cut side of the 
duck, season with salt and pepper, roll up and sew up the 
sides, then braise in the prepared mirepoix tiU the meat 
is tender, basting frequently. When done, take up the 
duck, let it cool a little, then cut into neat slices and 
keep them hot. Pour off the fat from the mirepoix, put 
in the demi-glace and poivrade sauce and let reduce, 
then strain and skim, add i table-spoonful of port wine, 
and one teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Season with 
paprika and salt if needed. FiU the croustade shapes 
with finely cut cooked asparagus points, heated up in 
white sauce, place on the rounds of duck, glaze over, and 
put a mushroom head on each. Decorate with finely 
shredded and blanched orange rind. Dish up, and serve 
with sauce handed round' separately. 



Chaud-froid de Perdreaux. 
(Chaud-froid of Partridge.) 

2 roast partridges, f pint brown chaudfroid sauce, i 
crisp lettuce, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, J cucumber, i hard- 
boiled egg, 8 stuffed oUves, \ pint aspic jelly, mayonnaise 
sauce. 

Cut the partridge into neat pieces, free them from skin, 
and mask each piece completely with a pale brown 
chaudfroid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half- 
set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad 
in the centre of the dish, arrange the pieces of partridge 
neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on 
top. Garnish with slices of peeled tomato and cucum- 
ber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and 
chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice or a border of 
cooked rice may be used as a foundation, it will improve 
the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. 
The rice should be coated with chaudfroid sauce, and 
masked with aspic. 




CONTRE-FILETS DE BOEUF, HONGROTSE. (p. 98.) 




HUITRES AU JAMBON, DUBARRY. 



^. 65.) 



Entrees of Game. i5i 

Salmi de Perdreau h la Montglas. 
(Salmi of Partridge.) 

2 partridges (trussed), i oz. butter, J pint stock, 
I small bouquet of herbs, i glass sherry, i gill espagnole, i 
pint tomato sauce, 2 oz. smoked cooked ox- tongue, 6 
preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, | onion, i small 
carrot, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried bread croute. 

Roast the partridges till about half done, take them 
up and let cool. Divide the birds into neat joints. 
Spread the butter in a flat stew-pan or saute-pan, put in 
the onion and carrot (previously peeled and sliced), also 
the bouquet garni ; put in the pieces of partridge, season 
with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Cook in a hot 
oven for about ten minutes and pour off the butter. 
Moisten with the stock, wine, Espagnole and tomato 
sauce, cover with the lid, and let it simmer gently for 
about half an hour. 

Take out the pieces of partridge, place them in another 
stew-pan, skim the sauce, and strain over the partridges. 

Cut the ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles into juli- 
enne shapes, put these with the above, and simmer for 
another ten minutes. 

Put a fried bread croute in the centre of a hot dish, fix 
it with a little batter. Dress the pieces of partridge, and 
garnishing neatly on and around the croute, and sauce 
over. Decorate with a few puff paste fleurons, 
previously brushed over with liquid meat glaze, and serve 
hot. 



Pains Perdreaux k la Royale. 

(Partridge Timbales.) 

Bone two plump partridges, remove the skin from the 

meat and pound the latter in a mortar with 4 ounces of 

beef suet and 2 ounces of bacon cut into strips ; rub it 

through a fine wire sieve ; return it to the mortar, add 



1 62 Recherche Entrees. 

2 ounces of butter, 3 chopped mushrooms, an ounce of 
panada and a table-spoonful of allemande sauce. 
Season the above with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice ; 
work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs, 
one yolk of egg and a little cream. 

Butter 12 small timbale moulds, line them rather 
thickly with the above farce, place a dessert-spoonful of 
salpicon of cooked partridge, ham, tongue, truffles, and 
mushrooms, in the centre of each ; cover, and fill up 
with forcemeat. Place them in a saut6-pan, pour in 
some boiling water so as to steam them, cover with a 
buttered paper, bring it to boil over the fire, then steam 
in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. When 
done, turn out, dish them up in a circle on a hot dish ; 
place a small mushroom head and a piece of truffle 
on each. Pour some supreme sauce over and round 
them, garnish with a few puff paste fieurons and fanci- 
fully cut slices of ox-tongue and send to table. 



C6telettes de Perdreaux k la Financi&e. 
(Paitridge Cutlets, Financiere style.) 

2 partridges (trussed for roasting), 18 preserved mush- 
rooms, J oz. butter, i oz. panade, i giU Madere sauce, 
salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, i hard-boiled 
white of egg, 3 truffles, small bottle Financiere, i egg, J 
gill velout6 sauce, J lb. mashed potatoes. 

Roast one of the partridges, bone the other, and pound 
the meat (freed from sinews and skin) till smooth ; add 
the raw egg, panade, and veloute sauce ; season to taste, 
and rub through a fine sieve. 

Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into 
thin slices. Stamp out 8 cutlet shapes. Stamp out for 
garnish some little rounds of white of egg (hard-boiled) , 
also of truffles and of mushrooms. Butter 8 cutlet 
moulds, decorate them with the little rounds just referred 



Entrees of Game. 163 

to, and put them on the ice to set. Work up the farce, 
and put a thin layer in each mould, lay a thin slice of 
cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, smooth over 
with a wet knife, press down well, put them in a sautd- 
pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 
Heat up the Financiere ragout in the Mad^re sauce, 
add the remaining mushrooms and truffles, cut into dice 
or slices, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute 
of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which 
put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the 
cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed pota- 
toes. Arrange the Financiere as a garniture artistically 
on the croute, pour the sauce round, and serve hot. 



Z6phires de Perdreaux k la M^tropole. 

2 partridges, i dessert-spoonful chutney, i gill be- 
chamel, puff paste trimmings, a few glace cherries, J pint 
rich brown sauce, i wineglassful Port wine, 2 yolks of 
eggs, cooked spinach, salt and pepper. 

Reduce the white sauce to about half its volume. Bone 
the partridges, removing all the meat, and pound it in a 
mortar till quite smooth ; add the white sauce and the 
yolks of eggs, mix thoroughly, and moisten with about a 
gill of brown sauce and half the port wine ; season with 
pepper, salt, and aromatic spice. Test the consistency 
of the farce before using it in a little boiLing stock or 
water ; if found too firm add a little more sauce, or 
cream, and if found too moist a little soaked bread or 
panade. Butter some Zephir or other suitable moulds, 
fill them with the farce, and poach in the usual manner 
for about twenty minutes. 

Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcase of the 
birds, brown sauce and tomato sauce, also the remainder 
of port wine. Season and strain. 



164 Recherche Entrees. 

Turn out the cooked shapes on a hot dish, arrange 
them neatly. Place a fancifully cut ring or square 
border of baked puff paste on each. Fill the centre 
with hot and well seasoned spinach pur6e, and put 
half a glace cherry on top of the spinach. Place the 
dish in a sharp oven for a few minutes, pour a little of 
the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the re- 
mainder separately in a sauce-boat. 



Mousses de Perdreaux au Jambon (Cold). 
(Mousses of Partridge with Ham.) 

Braize a good sized tender partridge, when done, let it 
cool and remove the breast, leg, and wing parts, free 
them from skin and bones, and pound the meat in a 
mortar adding to it two hard-boiled egg yolks, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and a handful of cooked green peas. 
Mix and pound till smooth. Rub the mixture through a 
fine sieve, put it into a basin and season with salt, pepper, 
and a grate of nutmeg. Incorporate about \ gill of rich 
brown sauce in which J oz. of gelatine has been dissolved ; 
a small glass of port or sherry added is good, but not 
essential. Have ready 8 or more small pea-pod shaped 
moulds, lined with aspic jelly and decorated with green 
peas. When set fill the moulds with the prepared puree 
and place them on the ice to set. 

Boil 2 oz. of fine semolina in \ pint of seasoned milk 
(bay-leaf, mace, peppercorns, and salt). When thor- 
oughly cooked and firm enough to shape, take out the 
bay-leaf, mace and peppercorns and press it into a but- 
tered oval flat mould. Turn it out when cold, wipe the 
shape and mask it with aspic, then place it on an oval 
dish and dress the little mousses neatly upon the semo- 
lina shape. Garnish the dish tastefully and serve with 
cold^cucumber^sauce (see Sauces). 




CASSOLETTES A LA STRASBOUKGEOISE. (p. 19.) 




CEUFS A lA PRINTANIERE. 



(P- 51.) 



Entrees of Game. 165 

Mauviettes aux Nouillettes. 
(Braised Larks with Small Nouilles.) 

18 fat larks, mirepoix, 2 truffles, i table-spoonful 
Indian chutney, J lb. chicken farce, i oz,. butter, i terrine 
or tin foie gras naturel, 2 oz. ham, i glass port wine, i gill 
demi-glace, i teaspoonful red currant jelly, J lb. Nouille 
paste (see page 28), seasoning. 

Bone the larks, season the inside, and coat with a very 
light chicken farce, to which a little rich cream has been 
added. Insert a fair-sized piece of foie gras in the centre 
of each, and truss the birds for braizing. Braize them on 
a bed of mirepoix in the usual way, and when done glaze 
them and let cool. 

To the mirepoix add the bones of the larks, and fry 
them a little over a quick fire ; pour off the fat and add 
the demi-glace sauce and a little stock. Reduce well, 
and strain into a small stew-pan. To this add the port 
wine, red currant jelly, and chutney, reduce again and 
strain. Keep hot with the larks. 

Make a neat border of nouille paste, fix it on an entree 
dish, brush over with egg and bake. With the remainder 
of this paste make very small nouilles (cut into fine shreds), 
cook these in salted water, and drain. Next fry or saute 
them in butter, season to taste, and mix with finely 
shredded ham or tongue. Range this in the form of a 
pyramid in the dish with prepared border. Dress the 
larks on top, sauce over carefully, and send the remainder 
of the sauce to the table. 



Ortolans aux Cerises. 

Bone 6 or more ortolans, stuff them with a liver farce 
(see page 104), mixed with a few stoneless sour cherries. 

Place the birds in a saute or braising pan containing 
I oz. melted butter, i bay-leaf and about 3 oz. cherry 
kernels. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the 
oven till the birds aore tender. 



1 66 Recherche Entrees. 

Prepare a base of farce or chicken forcemeat, poached 
in a border mould. Turn out on to a hot dish, cut the 
ortolans in halves, and range them neatly on top of the 
border. Pour off the butter from the saute-pan and put 
in \ gill of veal gravy. Add a puree of sour cherries, pre- 
viously moistened with a little port wine, and heat up. 
Put this in the centre of the dish, sauce over the birds 
with a thin demi-glace and serve hot. 



Filets de SangUer h la Russe. 
(Wild Boar Fillets, Russian style.) 

Take about two pounds of lean wild boar (loin or leg is 
best), cut from them some slices about quarter inch 
thick, flatten these a little with a bat, and shape theminto 
neat rounds. Place them in a shallow earthenware dish, 
sprinkle over with two table-spoonfuk of olive oil, two of 
marinade or vinegar, salt, pepper, a chopped shallot, and 
a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let them lay 
for two hours, drain and place them in a buttered saute- 
pan, sprinkle with a little sherry and a pinch of cayenne, 
cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for 
about fifteen minutes. Take up and glaze, place them 
on a dish on some timbales of the same size, lay a slice of 
hard-boiled egg on top of each, sauce over with sauce 
supreme. Sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved glaze 
and garnish with smaU heaps of grated horseradish and 
chopped ham. 

To prepare the rice timbales : blanch a quarter 
of a pound of Patna rice, drain, put two ounces of butter 
in a stew-pan, add one finely chopped shallot, fry a 
little and add rice. Stir a few minutes over the fire, then 
moisten with a pint of white stock, and let it simmer until 
done. Stir occasionally, and add more stock if necessary, 
Season to taste. Finish with one ounce of grated cheese 
and one ounce of finely chopped cooked ham. The 



Entrees of Game. 167 

moisture must be quite absorbed in the rice before it can 
be used for dishing up. Butter some small flat moulds 
the size required, fill up quickly with the rice, and turn 
out immediately and arrange them on the dish. 



Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier (Cold). 
(Chaitieuse of Cold Game.) 
Free from skin and bone some cold cooked game, 
grouse, partridge or pheasant, and cut the meat into 
neat slices. Prepare a rich brown sauce flavoured with 
the carcass (made in fumet), strain and add a few sheets 
of gelatine dissolved in sufhcient aspic jelly to make the 
sauce set, but not too firmly. The consistency of the 
chaudfroid sauce must be tested before use. Line a 
plain mould with a layer of aspic, decorate it suitably 
with cooked vegetables, truffles and hard-boiled white 
of egg, then pour in a layer of brown chaudfroid sauce ; 
when set place in a layer of slices of cold game, flavoured 
with seasoning and a little sherry, pour over some sauce 
and continue thus till the mould is full. Then place it 
on the ice till set. Decorate the shape when dished up 
with red currant jelly, cubes of aspic, and parsley. 

Chartreuses de Mauviettes en Surprise. 
(Chartreuse of Larks, Cold.) 

18 fat larks, 2 large truffles, 3 chillies, i natural foie gras, 
I pint stock, chicken farce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, 
peas and carrots for garnish, blond chaudfroid sauce, 
aspic. 

Bone the larks; make a fumet with the carcass, and add 
the stock to it ; reduce well and strain. Stuff the boned 
larks with chicken farce and a good sized piece of foie 
gras, wrap each up in a small piece of muslin cloth, and 
cook in the stock for thirty minutes. Take up the larks 
and let cool, remove the muslin and cut them in halves 



1 68 Recherche Entrees. 

lengthways. Line eight small quenelle shell moulds with 
a thin layer of aspic. Decorate with fine strips of truffle 
and red chilli or pimiento. Next coat the moulds with 
blond or white chaudfroid sauce, lay in each half a lark, 
surround the sides with sauce, and place on the ice to set. 
Turn out the shapes on a dish with a small cube-shaped 
base in centre replete with a mushroom studded with 
truffle, and surround the dish with quarters of hard- 
boiled eggs, having the yolks hidden with a round piece 
of truffle. Garnish with cucumber slices, a few sprigs of 

cress, etc. 

B^cassines Farcies it la Suisse. 
(Roast Stuffed Snipe, Swiss style.) 

6 young snipe, 4 oz. lean bacon, 6 sauce oysters, i 
stick of white celery, veal gravy, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. ham, 
3 oz,. bread-crumbs, 6-8 thin slices of fat bacon, seasoning. 

Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside, and chop 
up about half the intestines ; put this into a basin and 
mix with the bread-crumbs. Use only the white part 
(heart) of the celery, wash and chop it finely. Mince the 
ham finely, beard the oysters and cut them into dice ; 
put these with the ham into the basin. Season with salt 
and pepper, and mix aU well with 2 oz. melted butter. 
Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird 
in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in an 
earthenware roasting pan, upon this place the birds, and 
roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. 
Baste frequently. When done, take up, untruss the 
birds, cut each into 3 portions, and dress them on suit- 
ably shaped pieces of fried bread on a hot dish, pour 
over some P6rigord or truffle sauce, and serve. 



Timbale de Gibier aux Champignons. 
(Timbale of Came with Mushrooms.) 
Take any pieces left from cold game, one or two kinds 
may be mixed together, such as partridge grouse, pheasant. 



Entrees of Game. 169 

etc. Remove all skin and bone. Mince the meat and 
pound in a mortar with a little butter, add some chopped 
parsley, and a dozen preserved mushrooms, a table- 
spoonful of chutney, pepper, salt and enough demi-glace 
or game sauce to make it the consistency of force- 
meat. Mix well, add a few bread-crumbs, and 2 or 3 
eggs, according to the amount of meat used. Butter a 
suitably sized timbale mould, and dredge it with bread- 
crumbs ; put in the mixture, and steam or bake for about 
45 minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and pour a nicely 
prepared game or truffle sauce round and serve hot. 

Note. — If liked, a little minced tongue or ham can be 
mixed with the game. 



Pluviers Dor^s k la Marianne, 
(golden Plovers k la Marianne.) 

Pluck, draw, singe, and truss 4 plovers, place them 
in a stew-pan with 2 oz. of butter, season with salt and 
pepper, and let them take colour over a fairly quick fire. 
Pick and wash a pound of spinach, bring it to the boil 
quickly in salted water, then drain the spinach. 

Take up the birds, and put the spinach in the stew-pan 
with I oz. butter ; upon this place the plovers, add a glass 
of white wine, and J a pint of rich stock or gravy. Cover 
the pan, and let its contents cook slowly for about an hour. 

To serve, cut the birds into neat joints, dress them on 
the spinach, on a hot dish. Pour some hot Madere 
sauce round the base of the dish, and send to table. 



B6cassines Brais6es aux Choux. 

(Braised Snipe with Cabbage.) 

Truss 8 snipe, par-fry them in a little butter ; drain 

and add game sauce and i glass of white wine ; braise on 

a mirepoix for about twenty minutes. Blanch and 

afterwards cook in stock two firm spring cabbages. 



170 Recherche Entrees. 

Drain off the stock and finish cooking in a stew-pan, lined 
with bacon and moistened with a httle rich stock ; place 
the snipe on top of this. Cover the pan, and cook in 
the oven for fifteen minutes longer. Put the cabbage 
in a buttered basin, lightly pressed in, unmould on to 
a hot dish, range the snipe round the cabbage ; sur- 
mount with a silver skewer or hatelet with whole truffles. 
Sauce over with the sauce in which the snipe were first 
cooked, and serve hot. 



Escalopes de Venaison h. la Polonaise. 
(Venison Cutlets, Polish Fashion.) 
Cut 8 to 10 slices ^ an inch in thickness from a leg of 
venison, flatten each slice with a cutlet bat and trim neat- 
ly. Heat up an ounce of clarified butter in a saute-pan 
and broil the slices over a brisk fire until they are nicely 
browned on both sides. Have ready a sauce prepared in 
the following manner : crush 12 juniper berries and cook 
them with J a gill of wine vinegar ; to this add a table- 
spoonful of meat glaze, '| pint of veloute or allemande 
sauce, and let simmer gently for 10 to 15 minutes. 
Strain the sauce, season, and whisk in half an ounce of 
fresh butter. Arrange the slices of venison in an entree 
dish, pour over the prepared sauce, and serve hot. 



Lievre en Civet au Lard. 
(Jugged Hare, French style.) 
I hare, a mirepoix (consisting of a carrot and turnip, 

1 onion, a small bunch of savoury herbs), 4 oz. bacon and 

2 oz. butter, about a pint of brown stock, pint espagnole 
sauce, I glass port wine, a table-spoonful red currant 
jelly, salt and pepper, a croute of fried bread, and some 
croutons or sippets of bread. 

Procure the hare ready for cooking, wash, wipe and 
joint it, and cut it into neat pieces. Clean the vegetables, 



Entrees of Game. 171 

scrape and peel them, and cut them into slices, cut the 
bacon into dice, put the butter and bacon in a stew-pan, 
and add the vegetables ; fry these a nice light brown, 
then add the pieces of hare and the bunch of herbs. Cook 
the whole over a brisk fire for about 20 minutes, stirring 
occasionally, season with salt and pepper, moisten with 
stock, boil up, skim and add the sauce, cover and cook 
gently for about i J hour, take out the pieces of hare, and 
put them into another stew-pan. Strain the sauce, skim 
it from fat and add to the hare, put in the wine and red 
currant jelly, and allow to simmer for another 10 minutes. 
Fix the bread croute in the centre of a round entree dish, 
dress the pieces of hare neatly on this, sauce over well 
with the sauce, and garnish with croutons or sippets of 
fried or toasted bread. Savoury forcemeat balls are 
sometimes given as garnish in place of the fried croutons. 



Lapin Saut6 h la Provengale. 
(Stewed Rabbit, Provence style.) 
Cut a rabbit into neat joints and fry them in a saufe- 
pan containing J giU of sweet oil, and a sHced onion. 
When sufficiently brown, pour off the oil and add a glass 
of white wine (chablis or sauterne). Cover and let reduce 
a little. Next add four small peeled ripe tomatoes cut in 
quarters, and \ pint of demi-glace or other good brown 
sauce, season with salt and pepper and savoury herbs, 
and let sinuner gently till the meat is tender. 

To serve, dress the pieces of rabbit on a crouton of 
fried bread placed on a hot dish, reduce the sauce to the 
desired consistency, skim and strain it over the dish, 

and serve hot. 

Lapin frit a la Tartare. 
(Fried Rabbit with Tartars Sauce.) 
I young rabbit, i egg, 2 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, 
seasoning, frying fat, Tartare sauce. 



172 Recherche Entrees. 

Skin, draw, wash and wipe the rabbit, cut it into neat 
joints, and fry in butter in a saut6-pan until three-parts 
done. Season with pepper and salt, and put the 
pieces to cool, then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and 
crumb ; when set, dip in oiled butter and egg and crumb 
again. Place the pieces in a frying basket and fry a 
golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a 
hot dish with folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with 
fried or fresh parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce. 
This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried 
bacon. 



Darioles de Lapin & la Reine. 
(Rabbit Darioles witli Supreme Sauce.) 

\ lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 07. lean 
pork, I oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks of egg, \ gill 
bechamel sauce, i small tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, 
seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne), supreme 
sauce. 

Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until 
quite smooth ; then add by degrees the panade, the eggs, 
and bechamel sauce, also about three-quarters of an 
ounce of butter. Season to taste, and rub through a fine 
wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds ; dust the inside 
with finely chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and hue with 
a layer of forcemeat as above prepared. Put a piece of 
foie gras in the centre of each, and fill up with farce 
(forcemeat). Place the moulds in a saute-pan, with 
sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up to the 
moulds. Cover them with buttered paper, and poach in 
the oven for about twenty-five minutes. To serve, turn 
out the moulds on to a hot round entree dish. Arrange 
the darioles neatly, serve hot and pour over the supreme 
sauce. 



XXX. 




POULET DECOUPfi EN CHAUDFROID. (^. 130.J 




POULET EN CASSEROLE. 



(p. 124) 




ci;i.f:Ri-RAVES, tyrolienne. (/>. 46.) 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 173 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 



Espagnole Sauce. 

I carrot, i onion, J turnip, i small bouquet of herbs 
(bay-leaf, asprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley), 3 ripe 
tomatoes, i stick of celery, or teaspoonful celery seed, 
2 cloves, 2 oz. ham or bacon, i glass claret, ij quarts 
stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, seasoning. 

Put the butter into a stew-pan with the bacon and 
vegetables (except the tomatoes) ; allow them to fry to 
nice brown. Add the flour and fry this at a more gentle 
heat until a chestnut brown. Add the stock, stir till 
boiling, then add the tomatoes cut into slices, and cook 
for three-quarters of an hour. Add the claret, re-boil, 
and cook for another 30 minutes, and pass through the 
tammy cloth. Re-heat and serve as required. It is as 
well to make this sauce in considerable quantities, to 
be used as required. A little sherry added to the sauce 
is an improvement. 



Bechamel Sauce. 

ij 02. flour, ij pints milk or milk and white stock, i 
small bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, \ carrot, i small onion 
or shallot, 10 peppercorns, i small blade of mace, half a 
bay-leaf, seasoning. 

Put the milk or milk and stock on to boil with the 
carrot, cleaned and sliced, the onion or shallot (peeled), the 
bouquet, peppercorns, mace and bay-leaf. Melt the 
butter in a stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook a little 
without browning (or use white roux), stir in_the milk, 



174 



Recherche Entrees. 



etc. (hot). Whisk over the fire until it boils and let 
simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Take out the bouquet 
and vegetables, rub the sauce through a sieve or tammy, 
return to the stew-pan, season lightly with salt, pepper, 
and a grate of nutmeg. The sauce is then ready for use. 
If required richer, add a little cream. 



Demi-Glace Sauce. 

This sauce is made from the gravy of roast veal, or 
other roast meat, which is reduced to the desired con- 
sistency. To each giU add a ladleful of espagnole sauce, 
and a dessert-spoonful of sherry. Reduce the sauce, 
season to taste, then pass it through a cloth or strainer, 
and serve as required. 



Sauce Gibier. 
(Game Sauce.) 

The trimmings or carcases of any kind of game may be 
used for this sauce, those of grouse or woodcock are 
preferable. 

Chop small the trimmings of game, put them in a stew- 
pan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of 
turnip, all cut into slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig 
of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small blade of 
mace, and i clove. Fry in butter for a few minutes 
and moisten with \ gill of sherry. Cover and put 
on the fire to cook for 5 minutes. Now add a 
good pint of Espagnole or brown sauce, let it come 
quickly to a boil, skim, keep simmering for 15 minutes 
longer and pass through a tammy cloth, return to a 
clean saucepan, season with a little salt, if necessary, 
and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for 
serving. 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 175 

Sauce P6rigord. 

(Truffle Sauce.) 

3 large truffles, J pint brown or Espagnole sauce, i gill 
tomato sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, i teaspoonful 
anchovy essence, | oz. fresh butter. 

Chop finely the truffles, put them in a small stew-pan 
with the Marsala wine. Cover and reduce to one half ; 
add the brown sauce, and the tomato sauce, boil for a 
few minutes, skim and season to taste. Work in the 
anchovy essence, and a pat of fresh butter. Keep hot in 
a bain-marie and use as required. 



Sauce au Kari. 
(Curry Sauce.) 
'1 small onion, i small carrot, | oz. butter, i table- 
spoonful best curry powder, J small sour apple, J gUl 
tomato puree, i gill Espagnole sauce, i French gherkin, 
and seasoning. 

Peel and slice the onion, scrape and slice the carrot, fry 
both in the butter till the onion has acquired a light brown 
colour, then add the curry powder, and stir for a few 
seconds. Next add the apple peeled and chopped, 
moisten with the tomato puree and the brown sauce, 
and simmer for 20 minutes. Strain, season to taste, and 
stir in last of aU the finely chopped gherkin. Re-heat, 
skim, and use as required. 



Sauce Tomate. 
(Tomato Sauce.) 
I lb. ripe tomatoes, \ bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, | 
small onion, i oz. of butter, i gill of Espagnole or be- 
chamel sauce, pepper and salt. 

Remove the stems from the tomatoes and slice them, 
put them in a stew-pan with the butter, herbs, and onion, 



176 Recherche Entrees. 

the latter peeled and finely sliced. Cook till tender, 
and rub through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, add 
the brown or white sauce, boil for about 10 minutes, 
skim, season, and use as required. 

Note, — -A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice may 
be added to the sauce where piquancy is liked. 



Sauce Madere. 

(Madeira Sauce.) 
Reduce \ pint Espagnole sauce with i^ giUs of good 
gravy (made of veal stock) strained and free from grease, 
allow to simmer for about 15 minutes, and season with 
salt and pepper, add one glass of sherry or Madeira wine, 
reduce a little, and finish by working in J oz . of meat glaze . 



Sauce Mirabeau. 

I gill Espagnole sauce, i\ giUs stock, \ small onion. 
I small carrot, J gill Burgundy wine, \ gill mushroom 
liquor, ij oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil 
and parsley. 

Prepare a rich stock from the bones and trimmings of a 
fowl. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; 
fry them in a little butter to a nice light brown colour, 
drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil 
quickly for a few minutes, then add the mushroom Hquor 
and the stock, reduce to about half the original quantity, 
then stir in the Espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about 
ten minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the 
remainder of the butter, about a teaspoonful (in all) of 
chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, also a few drops 
of lemon juice and seasoning, if found necessary. Whisk 
over the fire until thoroughly hot (not boiling). Serve 
with fillets of beef Tournedos or chateau-briant. 




FILETS DE BCEUF, A LA RAVIGOTE. (p. 89.) 




MOUSSE DE JAMBON A l'^CARLATE. 



117.) 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 177 

Sauce Piquante. 
(Sharp Sauce.) 

I onion or 4 shallots, 3 gherkins (chopped), i table- 
spoonful chopped capers, i gill vinegar, i teaspoonful 
anchovy essence, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, f pint 
Espagnole sauce. 

Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a 
stew-pan with the vinegar, bay-leaf and thyme, cover, 
and reduce to half the quantity of liquor. Strain into 
another stew-pan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, 
moisten with the sauce, add the anchovy essence, boil 
for a few minutes, and use as required. 



Sauce Robert. 

Peel and chop finely i small onion, fry it without 
browning in ^ oz. of butter, add i glass of white wine and 
reduce to two-thirds. Next add | pint of demi-glace 
sauce and cook for 10 minutes longer. Lastly add i 
teaspoonful of meat glaze, i teaspoonful of French mus- 
tard, and a pinch of castor sugar. Reheat and serve. 



Sauce Pompadour. 

2 07. butter, ^ pint veloute or AUemande sauce, i 
shallot, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, \ gill 
cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt,"pepper, and 
a grate of nutmeg. 

Peel and chop the shaUot, and mince finely the mush- 
rooms. Blend the shallot iji an ounce of butter, but do 
not let it take colour ; put in the mushrooms and stir 
over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the 
sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few 
minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and 
parsley, stir this into the sauce, and season with salt, 
pepper, and a little nutmeg ; finish with the remaining 
ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in 
the bain-marie until required for serving. •-■ 

M 



178 Recherche Entrees. 

Sauce Poivrade. 

(Pepper Sauce.) 
Prepare a mirepoix of \ minced carrot, J onion, 2 
shallots, a little parsley and thyme, browned in i oz. of 
butter, add i gUl of vinegar, cover and reduce to one- 
third, then add \ pint espagnole sauce and 10 crushed 
peppercorns, cook for 10 minutes, then skim and strain. 
Season with a pinch of Nepaul pepper and serve. 



Sauce Br^teuil. 

Prepare \ a pint of a fish stock with the trimmings of 
fish, bones, etc., strain, and reduce to half with a glass of 
Rhine wine. Then add i oz. of mushroom trimmings, 
some truffle essence and peelings, also i gill of veloute or 
AUemande sauce, and \ gill of cream. 

Simmer for ten minutes, and pass through a tammy 
cloth. Re-heat, and bind with 2 yolks of eggs, finish 
with a pat of fresh butter, and a few drops of lemon 
juice, also additional seasoning if required. 



Sauce Mand§. 

This consists of ij giQs of Hollandaise sauce into 
which I table-spoonful of cooked cucumber puree, i 
table-spoonful of fish essence, i dessert-spoonful of lemon 
juice, and a grate of lemon rind have been incorporated. 



Sauce Bulgarienne. 

This consists of i giU of mayonnaise to which J giU of 
boiUng cream is added, also a table-spoonful of finely 
chopped celery, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato 
pulp. Whisk up over a pan of boiling water to get just 
warm. Season to taste and serve. Serve this sauce 
with the Quenelles k la Moelle. 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 179 

Sauce Colbert. 

Put into a saucepan one gill of espagnole or good brown 
sauce, half a glass of sherry, one dessert-spoonful of meat 
glaze, half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, boil up, skim, 
and add one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon 
and chervil, and finish with a pat of fresh butter whisked 
in by degrees. 

Sauce Mousseline. 
(White Mousseline Sauce.) 

\ gill cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 crushed long pepper- 
corns, I oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon juice. 

Put the cream, egg yolks, and pepper in a stew-pan, 
place this in a bain marie or stew-pan half filled 
with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a little 
timC; then add one at a time little pieces of butter ; 
stir all the time, but do not add any more butter until 
each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is 
absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will 
have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then 
be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving 
finish off with a little rich white stock, a few drops of 
lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should 
be added during the process of whisking. Serve with 
chicken mousse or soufHees. 



Sauce Champignons, blanche. 
(White Mushroom Sauce.) 
Boil together ij gills of bechamel sauce and the same 
quantity of veal stock (or other white stock), reduce to 
about half its original quantity. Skim well and add 10 to 
12 preserved mushrooms cut into slices, i table-spoonful 
of mushroom liquor, i dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, 
and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. 
Let the whole boil for ten minutes, season to taste, 
then add i table-spoonful of cream, and serve. 



i8o Recherche Entrees. 

Sauce Italienne. 
(Brown Mushroom Sauce.) 
Chop finely lo to 12 preserved mushrooms (cham- 
pignons), put them in a small stew-pan with a little of 
the liquor and a small glass of sherry, cover and allow to 
reduce well. Now add half a pint of demi-glace or thin 
Espagnole sauce ; boil up, skim, season to taste, and 
use as required. 



Sauce Chateaubriand. 
(Also called Crapaudine Sauce.) 

I gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, 2 cloves, i sprig of 
thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about ij gill meat 
gla/e, the juice of J lemon, 2 07. butter, | teaspoonful 
chopped tarragon. 

Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, 
cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stew- 
pan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into 
another stew-pan, add the lemon juice. Work in the 
meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stew-pan in the 
bain marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, 
and serve very hot with fillet steak, Tournedos, 
Chateaubriand, etc. 



Champagne Sauce. 

Put two cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, 
and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce into a 
stew-pan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add a glass of 
champagne, and the essence remaining from a braised 
ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if 
found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and 
serve with braised ham or braised duck. 

Sauce Chasseur. 

\ pint Mad ere sauce, ^ gill game hquor (fumet), lemon 
juice, and i to 3 livers of game. 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. i8i 

Chop the liver finely and toss in a little butter, then 
cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten 
minutes, season to taste, and skim, add a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, and one of red currant jelly. Use as 
required for game entrees, etc. 



Sauce Zingara. 

Reduce \ a gill port wine with i gill tomato puree, add 
I gill salmi sauce and reduce with J a gill of rich stock ; 
then strain on to a stew-pan containing finely shredded 
ham, tongue, mushrooms and truffles, about i dessert- 
spoonful of each and a few shreds of orange rind. Boil 
up for five minutes and serve as directed for Canard a la 
St. Germain. 



Sauce Bordelaise. 

I pint Espagnole or brown sauce, i wineglassful claret, 
2 finely chopped shallots, J oz. meat glaze, i teaspoonful 
chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon and chervil), a pinch 
of sugar, salt and pepper. 

Put the wine and shallots in a stew-pan, reduce to 
half, add the sauce and cook slowly for twenty minutes. 
Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat 
glaze. Season with sugar, salt and pepper, and give 
it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until 
required. 

Note. — In most cases where Bordelaise sauce is used 
and especially so with beef, some thin round slices of 
beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it 
is served or else warmed up in the sauce. 



Sauce G§noise. 
(Rich Brown Fish Sauce.) 
I sliced onion, i shallot, | clove of garlic, i oz. butter, 
small bouquet garni, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 



1 82 'Recherche Entries. 

I glass red wine (Burgundy), i pint Espagnole sauce 
(made from fish stock if desired), a pinch of mignonette 
pepper. 

Melt the butter in a stew-pan and fry onion, shallot, 
garlic and bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the 
onions are done, then add the sauce and let simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or 
tammy. Add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use 
as directed. 



Sauce Aigre-Douce. 

J small onion, ^ teaspoonful castor sugar, \ glass white 
wine, 2 dessert-spoonfuls red currant jelly, \ oz. butter, 
\ pint Espagnole sauce, saltspoonful dry mustard. 

Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter to a nut 
brown colour, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, 
and reduce a little. Next add the Espagnole sauce and 
the red currant jelly, simmer gently for 20 minutes, 
season to taste and strain. Use as directed. 



Sauce VeIout§. 

Dissolve ij 02s. of butter in a stew-pan, stir in i oz. of 
sifted flour, cook a little without browning, moisten with 
a quart of rich and highly seasoned chicken or veal stock, 
add half a bay-leaf and 8 peppercorns, stir and simmer 
slowly for half an hour, take off the scum, and pass 
through a tammy cloth or napkin, return to the stew- 
pan. Finish with i oz. of fresh butter and use as required. 

Stock for Velout6. — The stock from which veloute 
sauce should be made is made from veal bones, chicken 
bones, and trimmings, a flavouring of carrot, onion, celery, 
bouquet garni, and seasoning with an appropriate quan- 
tity of water. 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 183 

Sauce Allemande. 

Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add an 
ounce of flour, stir for a few minutes without browning 
Dilute with rather more than a pint of 'chicken stock, stir 
until it boils, season with salt, pepper and grated nut- 
meg ; let it simmer for half an hour. Skim, and finish 
with a liasion of two yolks of eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
cream, and | oz. of fresh butter. Whisk over the fire until 
the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil, add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and pass through a fine strainer 
or tammy cloth. 



Sauce R6gence. 

2 small shallots, J oz. butter, i gill fish stock (prepared 
with the fish bones and some vegetable to flavour), J gill 
Marsala wine, i| gill Espagnole sauce, parsley, i bay- 
leaf, I sprig of thyme, i teaspoonful horseradish mustard, 
I table-spoonful meat glaze, i dessert-spoonful truffle 
trimmings, seasoning. 

Peel and chop finely the shallots ; fry them a golden 
brown in the butter, add the fish stock and the wine, 
cover and let reduce to half the original quantity ; now 
add a few sprigs of parsley, the bay-leaf and thyme, also 
the Espagnole sauce, let simmer gently for twenty min- 
utes, then strain and tammy the sauce. When required 
for table stir in the horseradish mustard and the meat 
glaze ; the latter should be incorporated in little bits. 
Season to taste, stir in lastly the truffles finely chopped, 
re-heat slowly, and use as directed. 



Hollandaise Sauce. 

ij 07. of butter, i oz. of flour, 3 gills of white stock, a 
little cream, salt and pepper, a little lemon juice, the 
yolks of 3 eggs, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. 

Melt butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add the 



184 Recherche Entrees. 

stock, and stir over the fire till it boils ; add the herbs 
and let simmer for 15 minutes. Beat up the yolks of 
eggs, add them to the cream, and strain into the sauce. 
Re-heat it without letting it boil and add the lemon 
juice. 

Note : A richer sauce is made by omitting the flour 
and increasing the butter, which must be whisked in. 



Cardinal Sauce. 

4 pint veloute or bechamel sauce, juice of J lemon, i 
dessert-spoonful meat glaze, J gill mushroom liquor, i oz. 
butter, I 07. lobster coral, or i oz. lobster butter, salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. 

Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season 
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; add the 
lemon juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster coral — 
the latter finely chopped. Strain through a tammy 
cloth or fine strainer, return to the stew-pan, stir in the 
meat glaze, and keep hot in the bain marie until required 
for serving. 



Supreme Sauce. 

Put an ounce-and-a-half of butter in a stew-pan ; when 
melted, stir in an ounce of flour ; allow it to fry a little 
without browning. Add gradually ij pints of rich 
chicken stock, stir until it boils, and allow to simmer 
for 20 minutes. Skim, add one gill of cream and a 
table-spoonful of lemon juice. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Pass through a tammy 
cloth or napkin, return to a clean stew-pan, re-heat, and 
whisk in J 07. of fresh butter. 



B^arnaise Sauce. 

2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, a few fresh tarra- 
gon leaves, i gill French wine vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, 
\ teaspoonful mignonette pepper, a little salt, \ gill 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 185 

bechamel sauce, 3 oz. butter, J teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, and tarragon leaves. 

Put the vinegar, shallots and whole tarragon leaves in a 
stew-pan, cover it and let the liquor reduce to about an 
eighth of the original quantity. Remove from the fire, 
cool a little, add the sauce and re-heat, then stir in the 
yolks of eggs, season with salt and mignonette pepper, 
whisk the whole over the fire and incorporate by degrees 
the butter. This sauce must on no account be allowed 
to boil when once the eggs are added. Pass it through a 
tammy cloth. Return to another stew-pan and whisk 
again over hot water or in a bain marie. Lastly, mix 
with a few chopped tarragon leaves, and serve as directed. 



Sauce Trianon Froide (Cold), 
(For Filets de Volaille Trianon.) 

Stir into one gill of Mayonnaise about half a gill of 
Italian tomato pulp, i dessert -spoonful of Soubise purde 
and half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon leaves. 
Cut half a Spanish pimiento and one French gherkin into 
very fine short julienne strips, and add to the sauce 
which is then ready to serve. 



Sauce Bokar. 

This is made as follows : — Heat up \ gill of tomato 
puree with | gill of bdchamel. Mix | oz. sweet 
Bokar paprika with a little cream, and add to the above. 
Add a little beetroot, lemon juice, and 3 leaves of dis- 
solved gelatine, season and strain. 



Sauce B§rcy. 

Reduce ij gills of fish stock to about one-third its 
quantity, then add one chopped shallot previously tossed 
in butter, i glass white wine, i teaspoonful of meat or 
fish glaze ; reduce again, and add J gill of veloute sauce. 



i86 Recherche 'Entrees. 

and the juice of \ lemon. Tammy and return to the 
stew-pan, finish with i oz. of herb butter, and serve. 

Note. — ^The herb butter is made with finely chopped 
fennel, tarragon, and chervU, parsley and fresh butter. 



Sauce aux Concombres. 

(Cold Cucumber Sauce.) 
Peel thinly a small cucumber, cut it into small pieces, 
boil in salted water tiU tender, drain, and rub through 
a hair sieve ; return the pulp to the stew-pan, add a gill 
of reduced bechamel sauce, allow it to reduce and let it 
cool. Whip up \ gih of cream, work into this a gUl of 
mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold 
sauce ; season with a little salt and pepper if needed. 
The sauce is then ready for serving. 



Sauce froide aux Fines Herbes. 
(Cold Green Herb Sauce.) 
Blanch a handful of washed sorell leaves, a small 
bunch of parsley leaves, and a few tarragon leaves, 
drain well and pound in a mortar with 3 hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs and a gill of mayonnaise sauce. Rub through a 
fine sieve and blend with more mayonnaise. Care must, 
however, be taken so as to retain a green tint to the 
sauce. 



Sauce Chaudfroid Blonde. 
(Brown Chaudfroid Sauce.) 

I pint of rich Espagnole sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, 
5-6 sheets of French gelatine, i gill of aspic, \ gill cream. 

Warm up the Espagnole sauce, add the wine, soak the 
gelatine, drain and melt it, and strain it into the sauce 
with the melted aspic ; boil it for a few minutes, 
skim, and pass through a tammy cloth, let it cool a little, 
and add the cream ; season it necessary, and use as 
required. 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. 187 

Sauce Chaudfroid Blanche. 
(White Chaudfroid Sauce.) 

J pint of veloutd or supreme sauce, i gill of cream, i 
gill of aspic jelly, 5-6 sheets of French gelatine, a few 
drops of chilli vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice. 

Heat up the supreme sauce in a well tinned stew-pan, 
and pour in the dissolved aspic. Soak the gelatine 
drain it, melt and strain into the sauce, boil up and 
simmer for a few minutes, then add the lemon juice and 
vinegar, boil up again, and pass through a tammy cloth. 
Allow to cool a little, next add the cream and use as 
requested. 



Pink Chaudfroid Sauce. 

Proceed as directed in the foregoing recipe, but use i 
gill of white sauce and i gUl of tomato pulp or puree in 
place of velout6 or supreme sauce. 



Sauce Chaudfroid Verte. 
(Gieen Chaudtroid Sauee.) 

\ a pint of rich bechamel sauce, i gill of aspic jelly, 
J a gill of puree of green peas, i teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, 5 sheets of French gelatine, \ a gill of cream, a few 
drops of spinach greening, i dessert-spoonful of liquid 
meat glaze. 

Proceed as directed for white chaudfroid sauce. Re- 
duce the puree of peas before adding it to the sauce. 
The addition of spinach greening must be regulated 
according to the tint required. Work in the meat glaze 
(liquid), whisk a little and add the cream last of all. 



Mayonnaise. 

Two yolks of eggs, \ teaspoonful of dry mustard, i 
teaspoonful of salt, \ teaspoonful castor sugar, \ pint best 
salad oil, 20 drops of chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful shallot 



1 88 Recherche Entrees. 

vinegar, i dessert spoonful French wine, and sufficient 
tarragon vinegar to bring to the consistency required. 

Put the raw eggs in a basin ; add mustard, salt, and 
sugar ; mix with a wooden spoon. Continue stirring in 
the same direction, and add the oil drop by drop. Mix 
the vinegars together ; add these gradually. If the 
mixture gets too stiff to stir when all the oil is worked in, 
add a little more vinegar as needed. 



Mayonnaise au Citron. 
(Lemon Mayonnaise.) 

2 yolks of eggs, i table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 2 
lemons, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, 3 table-spoon- 
fuls nut oil, I gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika. 

Put the egg yolks into a basin with half a teaspoonful 
of salt, stir with a wooden spoon, and add drop by drop 
the oil ; when creamy, add the vinegar and gradually 
the cream ; then incorporate the lemon juice (strained). 
Continue to stir the mixture for another 15 minutes, then 
add the seasoning and a little grated lemon rind. Lastly 
stir in a dessert-spoonful of boiling water. It is then 
ready to serve. 

Note. — The mixing of above ingredients should be 
done on the ice or in a very cool place, else it is apt to 
curdle. 



Gelie k I'Aspic. 

(Aspic Jelly.) 

I quart rich veal stock or other white and fairly clear 
stock, I small bouquet garni consisting of parsley, tarra- 
gon, chervil, thyme, and lemon rind, i| oz. leaf gelatine, 
I gill of sherry or Sauteme, i gill of French wine vinegar, 
-J lemon, 2 whites of eggs, \ stick celery (washed). 

The stock should be cold ; remove any fat that may 
be on the surface. Put the gelatine and bouquet garni 



Sauces and Auxiliaries. i8g 

with the stock in a stew-pan. Cut the celery into small 
pieces, beat up the whites of eggs a little, and mix with 
the stock. Stir over a brisk fire continually until nearly 
boihng, then add the wine, vinegar, and lemon juice, 
and let boil up. Move the stew-pan on the side of the 
stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a jelly 
bag or cloth, repeat straining until perfectly clear. Keep 
the aspic in a basin, and use as required. 

Note. — During the summer months the quantity of 
gelatine used for aspic and cream should be rather less 
than that stated in the recipe, but the stiffness of aspic 
should in all cases be tested before being used. 



Tomato Aspic. 

Heat up half a pint of tomato pulp, add to it half-ounce 
leaf gelatine (previously soaked in water), half -gill of 
aspic, and one table-spoonful of meat glaze ; stir until it 
boils, season to taste with salt and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, rub it through a sieve, and use as directed. 



Tomato Mayonnaise. 

To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise 
add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. 
Mix gradually and season to taste. 



Aspic Cream. 

One and half gills aspic jelly, half-gill double cream, 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, a pinch of white pepper, a 
pinch of castor sugar. 

Put the cream into a basin, stir with a whisk, and 
gradually add the aspic, which must be liquid, but on no 
account hot ; then add the lemon juice and seasoning, 
rub through a silk sieve, and use as directed. 



iqo Recherche Entrees. 

Aspic Mayonnaise. 

Half pint aspic jelly, one gUl stiff mayonnaise. 

Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then 
stir it gently into the mayonnaise, and use before it begins 
to set according to direction. 

Sauce Ravigote, Chaude. 

(Hot Ravigote Sauce.) 

This is a white sauce flavoured with savoury herbs, 

reduced with white wine vinegar, finished with a liaison 

of butter and cream and fine herbs. Season to taste and 

serve. 



Sauce R6moulade. 

Chop finely 2 small peeled shallots, put them into a 
stew-pan with enough vinegar to cover, and cook for 
ten minutes ; then add a few tarragon leaves, one dessert- 
spoonful of capers, 3 small gherkins, and 2 anchovy 
fillets all chopped finely. When cold, mix with about 
J pint of well made mayonnaise sauce, and serve as 
required. 



XXXII. 




EPIGRAMMES DE FAISAN AUX PETTTS POIS. (/). I4S/ 




CROMESQUIS A LA RU3SE. 



(^ 35-) 



A Nice Appetite 

is nicely suited with a Corn 
Flour Baked Pudding made with 

Brown & PolsoD's 
p„.n, Corn Flour. 

To have it at its best observe these important points : — 

1. Use pure milk without water. 

2. Have the proper proportions of Corn 
Flour to milk, 

3 — and very important — give ten minutes 
brisk boiling, this brings out the de- 
licate flavour of the Corn Flour. 

Follow the recipe on every Brown &- Poison Packet. 



How to make 
Light Pastry. 

If you wish to make lighter pastry — and make it more 
quickly — 

If you would like a little list of little things easy and 
quick to make — 

Send to your grocer at once for a Td. or 3Jd. packet 
of Brown & Poison's raising powder 




" Paisley Flour " 



(Trade Mark}. 



With " Paisley Flour" you can bake better in less time. 
Every packet contains recipes easy enough for beginners, 
yet sufficiently good for a skilled cook to make. 



193 



GENERAL INDEX. 



LIGHT ENTRIES. 

PAGE 

Beignets de Jambon et Foie Gras zi 

Beignets de Volaille 23 

Cannelons a, la N6va 30 

Cassolettes de Gibier (cold) 25 

Cassolettes 4 la Strasbourgeoise 19 

Crepinettes de Foie de Porq 31 

Crepinettes de Gibier 4 la Chasseur 2$ 

Cromesquis 4 la Russe 35 

Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle Vue (cold) 21 

DomiDos 4 la Kochelais i 15 

Escalopes de Foie Gras El la Bagration (cold) 22 

Foie Gras Mousse (cold^ 73 

Friandines de Ris d'Agneau 29 

Macaroni a la RivoU 34 

Mousselines de Ris d'Agneau (cold) 28 

Omelette PrinciSre 33 

Pains de Ris d'Agneau S, la St. Germain (cold) 23 

Parfait de Foie Gras (cold) 20 

Petites Bombes i la Milaraise 20 

Petites BoucheesdeConcombreirindienne(cold) 32 

Petites Bouchees de Faisan a, la Mod^me 26 

Petites Cotelettes k I'Ecarlate (cold) 24 

PetitsSoiifafesilaBayonne , 19 

Petits Souffles de Foie de Volaille 23 

Petits Souffles a la Henri IV 26 

Petits Timbales ^ la R6gence (cold) i8 

Poulpetons de Rognon 4 la Parmentier 17 

Ramequin de Poulet ... , 24 

Raviolis la NapoUtaine 26 

Ris d'Agneau Brais6s en Caisses (cold) 30 

Rissolettes 4 la Solferino 31 

Saussalis d, la Walkow 34 

Tartelettes de Ris de Veau aux Trufies 16 

Timbale Turinoise 15 

VEGETABLE ENTRJ^GS AND FARINAGE DISHES. 

Artichauts a la Madras 41 

Aubergines Sicilienne 39 

Beignets d' Artichauts 43 



194 General Index 

Cassolettes deCeleriet Macaroni 

Celeri-Raves Tyrplienne 

Champignons a la Reine 

Cboux Farcis braises en Beurre 

Coeurs d'Artichauts, Maraichfire 

Concombre f arcie a la Moelle 

Fonds d' Artichauts a la Creole 

Italian Potato Border 

Kniokis a la Russe 

CEuf s a la Priatanidre (cold) 

Petits Cannelons au Florador 

Petits Choux ^ la Lorraine 

Petits Sou£Ses au Celeri 

Petites Timbales ^ la Duxelle 

Ramequins aux Carrottes 

Ravioli a ritalienne 

Riz a la Hongroise 

Riz^l'Indienue 

Riz a la Polonaise 

Risotto for Entree 

Risotto a ritalienne 

SoufSfes d' Artichauts 

Souffles glaces a I'Argenteuil 

Spaghetti ^ la Maltaise 

Timbales de Ble Vert 

Timbalesde Legumes a rindiemie 

Tomates a la Rentiere 

Topinambours au Risotto 



FISH ENTRIES (FOISSON). 

Barquettes de Poisson a la Choisy 

Chartreuse d'Eperlan a la Mande 

Cotelettes de Homard farcies a 1' Americaine . . . 

Croustade de Homard 

Filets de Sole a la Diane 

Filets de Sole Saint Georges 

Filets de Turbot Isabelle 

Huitres en Gelee a la Russe (cold) 

Hultres au Jambon Dubarry 

Medallions de Saumon £i la Diploma te 

Paupiettes de Sole a la Royale 

Petits Soufflfes de Saumon, Gauloise 

Quenelles de Homard Bourgeoise 

Roulettes de Sole S, la Russe (cold) 

Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise 

Timbales de Turbot, Frascati 

Vol-au-Vent i la Chambord 

26phires de Crabes i, la Royale (cold) 



PAGE 



General Index ig3 

ENTRfiBS OF VEAL (DU VEAU). 

Blanquette de Veau gg 

Chartreuse de Veau ^ la Cr^cy (cold) ..'. ." 70 

Cotelettes de Veau a la Bretagne "' \\\ ga 

Cotelettes de Veau 4 la Parisienne "" \\\ gi 

Cotes de Veau ^ la Marguerite (cold) '. '", 70 

Escalopes de Ris de Veau ...' ".' 74 

Escalopes de Veau Farcies aux C6pes \ Qo 

Filets de Veau 4 la Garibaldi ,.', \\\ y$ 

Filets de Veau ^ la Madeleine ,,', '"_ go 

Goulash de Veau ^laHongroise .' gg 

Grenadins de Veau ", gj 

Noisettes de Veau ^ la Turenne , ,[ '" g7 

Paupiettes de Veau a la Jardiniere " ".' g^ 

Pieds de Veau i I'Horly ]_[ g^ 

Queues de Veau a la Russe " s$ 

Ris de Veau ^ la Biarritz (cold) 71 

Ris de Veau ^ la Brandimbourg 73 

Risde Veau ^ la Chevalier ^q 

Ris de Veau ^ la Du Barry 73 

Ris de Veau d, la St. Michel (cold) 75 

Roulardines de Veau 88 

Socle of Rice for cold Entr6es 72 

TSte de Veau en Tortue 83 

Timbale de Ris de Veau a la Reine 77 

Timbalede Veau ^ la Cardinal yy 

Veal Forcemeat for Paupiettes 85 

Veau saute k la Milanaise 87 

Vol-au -Vent aux Quenelles de Veau y6 

Z6phires de Ris de Veau S, la Harlequin (cold) 73 

ENTRIES OF BEEF (DU B(EUF). 

Aiguillettes de Boeuf en Casserole 99 

Ch&lieaubriand 4 la Scribe 94 

Coeurs de Filets de Bceuf a la Rossini 92 

Contre-Filets de Bceuf a la Hongroise 98 

Contre-Filet de Boeuf ^ la Demidofi 98 

Entrecotes de Bceuf en Casserole loi 

Entrecotes de Boeuf ^ la St. Clair 100 

Entrecotes Grilles, Edouard VII loi 

Filets de Boeuf a la Ravigote (cold) 89 

Filets de Boeuf aux Bananes 90 

Filets de Boeuf a la Jamaique 92 

Filets Mignons de Boeuf a la Richmont 93 

Filets de Boeuf a, la Viennoise 91 

Langue de Boeuf Brais6 aux Epinards 89 

Noix de Bceuf a la Viart 103 



196 General Index 

Queues de Boeuf ^ rAlsacienne 

Queues de Boeuf ^ la Soubise 

Timbale de Bceuf ^ la Bourbonnaise 

Toumedos de Boeuf a I'Anna 

Tournedos de Boeuf ^ la Bordelaise 

Toumedos de Boeuf ii la Choron 

Tournedos de Bceuf 4 la Kalisch 

Tournedos deBoeuf^r Othello 

Tournedos de Bceuf 4 la Seym our 

Tournedos de Boeuf a la St. Jean 

Tournedos de Boeuf k la Ventadour 



ENTREES OP MUTTON (DU MOUTON). 

Brochettes d'Agneau Turbigo 

Cotelettes d'Agneau 4 la Dantzig (cold) 

Cotelettes d'Agneau Farcies cl la Frangaise 

Cotelettes d' Agneau Marienbad 

Cotelettes d'Agneau i la Maxima 

Cotelettes d' Agneau k la Nantaise 

Cotelettes d'Agneau k la Russe (cold) 

Noisettes d'Agneau k la Renaissance (cold) 

Cotelettes de Mouton k 1' Americaine 

Cotelettes de Mouton 4 la Byron 

Cotelettes de Mouton k la Gelee (cold ) 

Cotelettes de Mouton 4 la Lion d' Or 

C6telettesdeMoutonS,laPrincesse 

CStelettes de Mouton i la R6forme 

Cotelettes de Mouton 4 la Soubise 

Cotelettes de Mouton St. Germain 

Filets de Mouton 41a Tyrolienne 

Cotelettes de Pore a la Robert 

Jambon a la Bourgogne 

Mousse de Jambon (cold) 

Soufflfe de Jambon 4 1'Espagnole 

ENTRIES OF POULTRY (DE LA VOLAILLE). 

Ailerons de Volaille 4 la Creole 

Bombe de VolaUle 4 la Trianon (cold) 

Canard aux Olives 

Caneton 4 la Bohemienne 

Caneton 4 la Rouennaise 

Chapon 4 la Bechamel 

Chapon 4 la Dauphine 

Chartreuse de Volaille 4 la Balmoral (cold) 

Cotelettes de Volaille 4 la Melba (cold) 

Darioles de Canard 4 la St. Germain 

Darioles de Crfime de Volaille (cold) . ■ . 



General Index 197 

Darioles de VolaiUe a, la Diplomate (cold) 129 

Dinde ^ la Florentine 1,9 

Escalopes de Poulet aux Epinards '. 130 

Filets de Poulet a, la Helder ', 137 

Filets de Poulet aux Huitres 125 

M6daillons de Volaille a la Cond6 '.'. ..', ..', 130 

Mirepoix "' "' "\ 1,1 

Mousse deDindon a I'Ecarlate (cold) ... ... ... ..' ..'.' 120 

Mousse de Chapon a la Belle H61toe (cold) 119 

Mousselines de Caneton 4 la Moresco (cold) 144 

Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses 138 

Palm ettes de Volaille Valeska (cold) 134 

Pigeons de Bordeaux ^ la Maltaise 147 

Pigeons sautes aux Salsiiits 146 

Pigeors 4 la Valence 139 

Poulet en Casserole 124 

Poulet decoup6 en chaud-froid 130 

Poulet frit ^ la ViUeroi 12; 

Poulet Saut§ i la Marengo 123 

Poulet Saut6 i la Phillipe 123 

Poulet Saut6 4 la President 122 

Poussins Po§16s a, la Madrid 121 

Quenelles de Canard ^ la Bulgarienne 142 

Salmi de Canard aux Navets 143 

Soufflfi de Volaille a, la HoUandaise 141 

Supreme de Caneton a la SouvaroS (cold) 146 

Supreme de Volaille d, la Mirette 128 

Suprfimes de Volaille A, la Strasbourgeoise 128 

Tirabales de Volaille ^ la Parqual (cold) 133 

Timbales de Volaille ^ la Rothschild (cold) 132 

Tim bale de Volaille ji la Toulouse (cold) 131 

ENTR]gES OF GAME (DU GIBIER). 

Becassines Farcies ci la Suisse 168 

Becassines Brais6es aux Choux 169 

Cailles en Caisses i I'Aspic (cold) 152 

CaiUes en Casserole 151 

Cailles a la Grficque iS4 

Cailles^rindienne i57 

CaiUes rdties sous la Cendre 152 

CaiUes a la Tosca iS5 

Canard Sauvage ^ la Nemrode I59 

Chartreuse auChaudfroiddeGibier 167 

Chartreuse de Mauviettes en Surprise 167 

Chaud-froid de Perdreaux 160 

Cotelettes de Perdreaux ^ la Finan ciSre 162 

Darioles de Lapin a. la Reine 172 

Epigrammes de Faisan aux Petits Pois 148 



igS 



General Index 



Escalopes de Venaison S. la Polonaise 

Faisan braise au Choux 

Filets de SangUer ^ la Russe 

Gradin s de Faisan k la Mauxelle 

Lapin frit i la Reine 

I.apin saut6 k la Proven9ale 

LiSvre de Civet au Lard 

Mauviettes i 1' Aspic (cold) 

Mousse de Perdreaux au Jambon 

Pains Perdreaux ^ la Royale 

Petits Cremes de Faisan 

Petits Pains de Mauviettes 

Pluviers Dores k la Marianne 

Salmi de Perdreaux a la Montglas ... 

Sarcelle ^ la Moscovite 

Souffles de Cailles k la Marechale 

SoufSes de Cailles k la Lusette 

SuprSmes de Sarcelle a I'Orange (cold) 

Terrin e de Faisan k la Cossart 

Timbale de Gibier aux Champignons 
Z6phires de Perdreaux k la M6tropole 



PAGE 

,. 170 

.. ISO 

.. 166 

• ■ 149 
.. 172 
.. 171 
.. 170 
. 165 
.. 164 
.. 161 
.. 151 
.. 103 
.. 169 
.. 161 
.. 158 

• • 153 

• ■ IS4 
.. 157 
.. 148 
.. 168 
.. 163 



SAUCES AND AUXILIARIES. 



Aigre-Douce Sauce . . . 
AUemande Sauce 

Aspic Cream 

Aspic Jelly 

Aspic Mayonnaise 

Bearnaise Sauce 

Btehamel Sauce 

Bfercy Sauce 

Bokar Sauce 

Bordelaise Sauce 

Breteuil Sauce 

Bulgarienne Sauce . . . 

Cardinal Sau ce 

Champa ^ne Sauce 
Champignons Blanche Sauce . . . 

Chasseur Sauce 

Chaudfroid Blanche (white) Sauce 
Chaudfroid Blonde (brown) Sauce 

Chaudfroid (pink) Sau ce 

Chaudfroid Verte (green) Sauce 
Chateaubriant Sauce ... 

Chestnut Purfee 

Colbert Sauce 

Cucumber Sauce (cold) 
Curry Sauce 



.. 181 

.. 181 

.. 187 

.. 186 

.. 187 

.. 183 

• ■ 173 
.. 188 
.. 188 
.. 188 
.. 178 
.. 178 
.. 182 
.. 180 

■• 179 

.. 180 

.. 180 

.. 184 

.. 185 

.. I8s 

.. 179 

• • 74 
•■ 179 
... 184 
... 175 



General Index 199 

PAGE 

Demi-glace Sauce 174 

Decoration Schemes for Timbales, etc 13 

Espagnole Sauce 173 

Farce for Cutlets Maxime 104 

FumetofDuck 146 

Game Forcemeat 156 

Gen oise Sauce 189 

Gibier (game) Sauce i74 

Hatelets or Skewers 11 

Herb Sauce (cold) 184 

Hollandaise Sauce i8z 

Italienne Sauce i79 

Kari (curry) Sauce i75 

Lemon Mayonnaise 186 

Mad^re (Madeira) Sauce 176 

MandeSauce 178 

Mayonnaise 185 

Mirabeau Sauce 176 

Mirepoix i3 

Mousseline Sauce 176 

Nouille Paste 28 

Pferigord (truffle) Sauce i75 

Piquante (sharp) Sauce ^77 

Poivrade (pepper) Sauce 178 

Pommes de Terre Parisienne 81 

Pommes de Terre Duchesse 95 

Pommes Pailles (Straw Potatoes) i °° 

Pompadour Sauce ^77 

Ravigote Sauce (hot) 189 

RaviohFarce 28 

Rice Socle for Cold Entrees 7^ 

Rfegence Sauce 182 

Remoulade Sauce '87 

RobertSauce ^77 

SaladeMelba 13^ 

Soubise Purfee (Onion) ii' 

Soubise Sauce ''4 

SpinachPuree 89 

SuprgmeSauce ^°3 

TomatoAspic '°7 

Tomato Mayoimaise '°9 

TomatoSauce ^75 

Trianon Sauce (cold) 1°** 

TruffleSauce ^75 

Veal Forcemeat ^5 

Velout6 Sauce 1°^ 

ZingaraSauce '"" 




By C. HERMAN SENN, 



Dedicated to E.E.H. The Princess of Wales. 

Her Majesty Queen Alexandra, 
H.M, Queen Maud of J{orway, 
H.M. Queen Victoria Eugenie of Spain 
have honoured the Author iy graciously accept- 
ing copies of this work. 

This work has been compiled on popular lines, 
and is designed to meet the requirements of an up- 
to-date cuisine. The arrangement of the various 
branches of Cookery and Gastronomy treated.is as 
Simple as possible, so that any dish, sauce, or 
adjunct can be easily referred to. 

The book has the largest and most complete 
collection of up-to-date recipes for Recherche 
Dishes ever produced in this country. There are 
over 5,000 selected Recipes, Cooking Methods 
and Menus in this book, which embraces every 
essential subject of interest to the Chef, Manager 
and Housekeeper. JVothing relating to Practical 
Cookery and Table Service has.been omitted. The 
work is profusely illustrated. 

Price One Guinea. - Edition de Luxe, 331: 

lUusiraied Booklet and Specimtn Pagesjree/rovi the — 

FOOD &• COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 

S»9, VauxhaU Bri<lgi Road, Victoria Station, London, S.IV, 






-;w»"g^OT£««"-w^^|... - 




«SW 



"ftii" _ 5?^"3S^^ 



