w, 



BEST RECIPES 
FOR BAKING. 



© (§) o 





(§) © 



A BOOK FOR 
THE HOME 




CONTAINING 

Full and Complete In- 
structions With 
Each Recipe 



HUNTER BOOK COMPANY, 

SAINT LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

Stephens Printing Co., 218 N. Cardinal Ave.. St. Louis. 



*N 



^LIBRARY tfCONeHESS 
Two Cartes BecaiveG 

JAN 9 U08 

tievyncM t"tr> 



A 



^ 






Copyrighted 1907. by 

Zhe HUNTER BOOK COMPANY, 

St. Louis, Mo. 




N NO other .country or at any other time 
has the demand for good bake-stuffs been 
so great as it is at the present time in 
this country. The time has now come 
whether it be in the home of the humblest 
workman or in the mansion of the rich, 
the cook or housewife is more praised 
and esteemed for her good Bread, Bis- 
cuits, Pastries and Cakes than for anything else. It is 
a very common thing to hear a woman say, O I had 
such good luck with my baking. But the next time 
"I am mad" I had such bad luck with my baking. 

There it is one time good and maybe three times 
bad luck. 

How she does envy the woman that can say "my 
baking is always good." 

In looking over the long list of books on the mar- 
ket it is impossible to see how the inexperienced cook 
or housewife can learn to bake successfully from them. 
Before any success in baking can be expected the 



housewife or cook must learn some of the principles ol 
baking, and also learn something of the materials she 
will use. 

It is the object of this book to show in plain lan- 
guage all who are interested how to become success- 
ful in the art of baking, and to give such plain, full 
and complete instructions with each recipe that every 
person will be sure of success. 

Good judgment and common sense are essential 
in all baking: but the only judgment and common 
sense necessary with this book is to follow its instruc- 
tions. 

The cause of failure is the lack of knowledge, the 
proper instructions have not been received, the recipes 
may be good but the proper and complete instruction 
does hot accompany them. 

The work herein laid out before the reader is the 
result of years of careful and successful experiments, 
and if the purchaser of this book will give it a little 
time and study she will be sure of success. 

HUNTER BOOK CO., 

St, Louis, Mo. 



— 4 



/ 



>// 




REMARKS ON BREAD MAKING. 

In the making of bread-stuffs, there are so many 
varying conditions to contend with that it is impossi- 
ble to give any set rule. 

In fact there may be two mills in a town each 
making flour from practically the same wheat. You 
may be able to make good goods from the flour of one 
mill, and impossible to even make fair goods with 
flour from the other. 

Again it is impossible to suit the tastes of every 
person. 

Therefore the recipes in this book have been ar- 
ranged so they may be changed to a certain extent to 
suit the taste and materials of the individuals. 

By far the most important part of bread making 
is to get a knowledge of it. Give it part of your time 
and some study and by using good judgment you will 
then succeed. Failure is lack of knowledge, success 
is the result of knowledge. 

Cleanliness is a very important part of the suc- 



— 5 



cess of baking, keep every thing clean, you will then 
have no trouble in turning out a good sweet loaf. 

If the flour you are using is giving good satisfac- 
tion stick to it. The same may be said of yeast and 
other ingredients. But if they are not good do not 
hesitate to make a change. 

Do not rush your doughs and work them up when 
they are not ready, it will only mean failure or partial 
failure. 

Good hot oven does not mean red hot. It means 
an oven that has been properly heated to a certain de- 
gree so it will do good baking. 

Do not put your bread in the oven to bake and 
then commence heating your stove, and wonder why 
your bread is soggy and heavy. Have the oven the 
right temperature and keep it that way. 

Take less yeast and more salt in summer or warm 
weather and more yeast and a little less salt in winter 
or cold weather. 

Always keep flour in a warm — not hot — dry place. 

Always keep yeast in a dry cool place. 

If bread, rolls or biscuit are washed immediately 
after baking with melted butter or lard it will shine 
nicely and make the crust much softer. 

If you wish to put a gloss on your bread, rolls 
or biscuit take a little corn starch and dissolve in 
cold water, add boiling water until thick enough to 
spread under brush. 

— 6 — 



If you can not mould dough into loaves you will 
find the following way very easy to learn. Cut or 
weigh your dough into the size you want your loaf to 
be. Turn the smoothest side down on the bread 
board, press out flat with the hands, lap in the sides 
and mash, commence at end farthest from you and 
roll it up, just as though you were rolling up jelly 
roll, when you get to the end mash together, roll 
under the hands until you get it the desired length, 
then put in pan joined placed down, leaving smooth 
side up. 

To shape rolls grease the hands with a little 
lard or butter, then pinch off a piece of dough the 
size of a small egg, roll between the hands until 
round. 

It will improve the crust on bread, if before 
you put it in the oven you will grease the top of it 
with melted lard or butter. 

Always sift flour before using it. 

To tell good flour from bad, take a small amount 
of flour and lay on the hand, take a knife and make 
smooth, if it has a cream like color it is good but if 
you see red and black specks in it, it isn't good. 

Milk can be used in bread, rolls, coffee cakes, in- 
stead of water, and it improves the goods very much, 
when milk is used in making sponge it should always 
be boiled and cooled to temperature desired. 

The strength of baking powder varies so much 

— 7 — 



with the different brands that it is impossible to state 
just how much to use. The only way to be successful 
is, to get a certain brand and learn to use it, that is 
learn how much to take then stick to that brand. 

MATERIALS USED IN BREAD MAKING. 

To make bread making easier it will first be neces- 
sary to give the reader some information on the ma- 
terials used and to acquaint her with the troubles of 
bread making so they can be avoided, thereby making 
success sure. 

Flour. 

By far the most important ingredient in bread 
making is flour. 

There are two kinds (but many brands) of white 
flour. Spring or hard wheat flour and Winter or soft 
wheat flour. 

Spring or hard wheat flour is flour made from 
wheat sown in the spring. The flour is hard coarse 
grained and strong, it is therefore best adapted for 
bread making. While it can be used for pastry and 
cakes it is not near so good as winter or soft wheat 
flour. 

Winter or soft wheat flour is made from wheat 
sown in the fall, and is soft and of very fine grain, it is 
not strong, it is therefore best adapted to. pastry and 

— 8 ~ 



cake making. It can be used in making bread but is 
not as good as spring wheat flour. 

It is therefore necessary if you wish the best re- 
sults in the making of bread that you use a good grade 
of spring or hard wheat flour. 

Water. 

Next to flour the most important ingredient is 
water, the water used should be fresh and clean. Soft 
water soaks up flour more thoroughly and quicker 
than hard water and is therefore better. 

Salt. 

The salt used should be clean and of a good qual- 
ity, coarse salt can be used and gives satisfaction, but 
fine salt dissolves quicker and better and consequent- 
ly is better. 

Sugar. 
Any good grade of sugar whether it be granulat- 
ed or brown will give satisfactory results. 

Lard. 
The lard used should be of a good quality and 
should be warmed until it is soft. 

Yeast. 

If you are using a yeast that is giving you satis- 
factory results stick to it. There will be found else- 
where in this book several recipes for making yeast. 
All of which are good and if made as directed will 
give excellent results. 

— 9 — 



SOME THINGS TO AVOID. 

Although you may have selected a good flour and 
the rest of your materials may be first class in every 
respect, it is still possible to make a failure of your 
bread. Now to avoid making a failure after a selec- 
tion of good materials, it will be necessary to guard 
against such troubles as sour bread, spots in bread 
and ropey places in bread, each will be dealt with sep- 
arately and the cause of each and how to avoid the 
cause. 

Sour Bread. 

Sour bread is by far the most frequent cause of 
poor bread stuffs. 

There are several causes of sourness. 

1st. The cook or housewife will make her dough 
in a bowl or vessel that has some old dough or other 
foreign matter in it which has become sour, the dough 
soon takes up this sourness and once in the dough it 
works rapidly and the result is your bread stuffs is 
not good, it is more or less sour. 

To avoid this sourness thoroughly clean the 
bowl or vessel and give it a good airing. 

2nd. In making your dough you will get it too 
warm thus causing the yeast cells to work so rapidly 
that they work themselves to death, then sourness 
takes place and your bread stuff is sure to be a fail- 
ure. To avoid this all that is necessary is to be care- 

— 19 — 



ful and not get your dough too warm, dough should 
fee made luke warm in summer and blood warm in 
winter. A little practice and being careful is all that 
is necessary to get the temperature right, it is easy to 
learn and you will soon get it. 

3rd. In making the dough you get it too cold, 
and then set it close to the fire leaving one side of it to 
the fire too long, it getting too warm, the yeast cells 
in the warm dough work themselves to death causing 
sourness to start up, then when you work up your 
dough to make it into loaves you work the sour dough 
all through the other dough, consequently your bread 
is sour in places. To avoid this do not let one side of 
your dough stay towards the fire but turn your bowl 
or vessel around a little every once and awhile. 

Spotsi n bread are caused either from the dough 
getting too warm in one place as just described, caus- 
ing sour bread in spots, but in case of spots the dough 
gets so sour that it turns dark, or in mixing you do not 
thoroughly mix, leaving hard lumps in the dough, the 
yeast cells do not have much affect on these lumps 
consequently they do not whiten or get soft and the re- 
sult is lumps in your bread. To avoid spots treat 
same as to avoid sourness and mix dough thoroughly. 

The cause of rope in bread is still puzzling many 
good bakers, but after careful study it is found to be 
more or less caused from the flour, therefore if you 
are bothered with rope in your bread the best thing to 
do is to try a new brand of flour. 

— 11 — 



HOME MADE YEAST. 

Where bread is baked regularly say once or twice 
a week or oftener you will find this yeast to be a good 
one. 

One medium size or two small potatoes. 

Three tablespoons flour. 

Three tablespoonful sugar. 

One tablespoon salt. 

Yeast. 
Add enough water to make two quarts. 
Peel and wash potato, boil in sufficient water until 
soft, take potato out and put in another bowl or ves- 
sel, letting water cool, thoroughly wash the potato, 
add flour and mix, add sugar and mix, add salt and 
mix, to this add the water the potato was boiled in 
and mix, dissolve one yeast cake in about half pint 
water (any brand of yeast will do,) (this is only to 
get the new yeast dissolved to ferment) add the dis- 
solved yeast, then add enough water to make two 
quarts more or less of yeast, the temperature should 
be blood warm in cold weather and luke warm in warm 
weather, let yeast stand nine to twelve hours when it 
will be ready for use. 

The above is for the start or first time you make 
the yeast. For making the yeast the second time and 
thereafter observe the following : Just before you use 
the yeast take out one pint, (for convenience put it in 

— 12 — 



pint self sealer and keep in cool, dry place) then when 
you make your yeast the second time put in the pint 
you took out and saved instead of the yeast cake. 

Always save out one pint to put in the next mak- 
ing. 

You will find it very convenient if you will make 
this yeast at night and let set until next morning 
when it will be ready to use. 

Dry Hop Yeas£. 

Take half pound hops and boil in little more than 
two quarts water until hops begin to sink, put a quart 
of good flour, one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup salt 
in a basin, strain the liquor from the hops into the flour, 
sugar and salt, boiling hot and stir it. If too thin add 
enough flour to make a stiff batter ; be sure the flour is 
well scalded, or it will not keep as long. When luke 
warm mix into it three to six cakes of dry yeast dis- 
solved in a little water, number of cakes depending on 
the size or two ounces compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a little water. Cover it and let stand about 
twelve hours or until it has risen and fallen, then mix 
in enough cornmeal to make a dough and let it rise 
again, then roll out about half an inch thick and cut 
into two and a half inch squares, and dry in the sun. 
It will take three to five days to dry, and must be 
turned every day and taken in in the evening. It will 
then be ready for use. 



13 



TO MAKE BREAD FROM HOME MADE YEAST. 

Take the home made yeast when ready and mix 
in enough flour to make a moderately stiff sponge, let 
rise until blubbers form and break, the sponge will 
then be ready to make into dough, if the sponge is not 
the right temperature add enough water to make it so, 
add about half pound soft or melted lard and mix well, 
then mix in enough flour to make a good dough. If 
winter wheat flour is used make a stiff dough and if 
spring wheat flour is used, make a soft dough. When 
dough is the proper stiffness, turn out of bowl or ves- 
sel on board and knead for ten to twenty minutes, 
working in all scraps, leaving the dough firm and 
smooth, put the dough back in the bowl or vessel and 
let rise. If you will notice when dough is first made it 
is firm and if you press your fist in it and take it out 
the dough will come back more or less. But when 
the dough has risen to such extent that when you push 
your fist down in it, and take it out the dough will sink 
or follow down the place, the dough is ready to again 
be turned out on board and shaped into loaves, and put 
in pan, let rise in pan for an hour or an hour and a 
half, or until the loaf has risen to almost twice its ori- 
ginal size, it will then be ready to put in oven to bake, 
bake in good solid heat from forty-five to sixty min- 
utes time depending on size of loaves. 



14 



DRY HOP YEAST BREAD. 

Take one to two yeast cakes, dissolve in one quart 
of water of the right temperature Now mix in enough 
flour to make a medium stiff sponge, let rise until 
light or until you can see blubbers come up and burst, 
it will then be ready to make dough, put into this 
sponge one quart of water, be sure to get right temper- 
ature, while adding the water. Thoroughly mix the 
sponge, then add one-half cup sugar, tablespoon salt, 
and half cup of soft or melted lard. Now mix in 
enough flour to make a firm dough. 

From here on follow the directions for Home 
Made Bread as they are the same. 

TO MAKE BREAD WITH COMPRESSED 
YEAST. 

Take one ounce or ounce and a half, the amount 
depending on the kind and strength, dissolve in one 
quart of water that is the right temperature, mix in 
enough flour to make a medium stiff sponge, mix well 
but do not beat or toughen, let it set until it has risen 
and fallen and it can rise and fall the second time if you 
so prefer. It will then be ready to use, add one quart 
of water being careful to get it the right temperature, 
mix sponge and water thoroughly, add to the sponge 
one-half cup sugar, little more than one tablespoon 
salt, half cup soft or melted lard, mix thoroughly, now 

— 15 — 



mix in enough flour to make the dough. If hard wheat 
flour is used make a soft dough, if soft wheat flour is 
used make a stiff dough, let the dough rise until light 
then make into loaves and put in pan, let rise again, 
then put in oven and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Make sponge of white flour and treat same as for 
white bread until it is ready to make dough. To one 
quart of sponge add half cup molasses three table- 
spoons sugar, scant tablespoon salt, a little lard and 
enough water to make it the right temperature, mix 
well, then make dough using half graham flour and 
half white flour. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Follow same directions as for Graham Bread, but 
in making the dough use all whole wheat flour. 

RYE BREAD. 

Make sponge as for white bread, when ready to 
make into dough, to each quart of sponge add half cup 
sugar, half cup lard, tablespoon salt, water enough to 
make it the right temperature, mix well, then make 
dough using half rye and half white flour, make a stiff 
dough, and knead it well, then work off same as for 
white bread. 

— 16 — 



SALT RISING BREAD. 

One of the most important points to be looked 
after in baking salt-rising bread is heat. It must have 
heat from start to finish. If you will make a box with 
a shelf in it, put the bread on the shelf and put a pan of 
hot water under it, and keep box and all in a warm 
place, the steam from the hot water will keep the 
dough moist, which will keep a hard crust from form- 
ing on your dough. Put three teaspoonsful of fine 
cornmeal and a pinch of soda (about one-twelfth of a 
teaspoonful) in a quart bowl. Put one cup milk and a 
tablespoonful of water in a basin and bring to a good, 
sharp boil. Pour this on your meal and soda, not too 
much at a time, stirring well ail the time, so it will not 
be lumpy ; this will make a very thin batter. Now put 
your bowl in a good warm, — not hot, place where the 
air cannot strike it and cover it up well with a cloth to 
rise. It will take from 12 to 15 hours. The heat must 
be just warm but constant. When your yeast is light 
take your bowl or vessel, put in one pound of flour, 
pour your yeast on the flour, and stir in with a large 
spoon. Now add one and one-fourth pints of water — 
not scalding, and make a thick batter. Set this in your 
box with the hot water under it, cover it over, keep it 
good and warm, but don't get it hot enough to scald. 
This will be ready in about an hour, tablespoon salt, 
half cup sugar, half cup lard, one and one-fourth pints 



17 



hot water and flour to make a firm dough. Cover up, 
set back in box with hot water under it, let it get a 
good start in the dough, this will take twenty to thirty 
minutes. Turn out on bread board and work well, 
shape into loaves and put in pan. Place in box with 
hot water under it, let rise. This bread must not rise 
as light as yeast bread. If it rises too much it will 
spoil it. It should never rise enough to crack on top. 
The oven should be hot enough to bake it in twenty 
to forty minutes all depending on the size of the loaf. 

ROLLS. 

In making rolls if you will make them at the same 
time you are making bread you will find it very con- 
venient. You can take a part of your bread sponge 
and work into any kind of roll, coffee cake or raised 
doughnuts. If you wish to make rolls and no bread, 
make sponge in same manner and treat same as for 
bread. 

PLAIN ROLLS. 

To make plain rolls take part of your bread 
dough, making it into rolls, put in pan, setting them a 
little apart so they will have room to rise, when risen 
take a little cloth and some melted lard and grease the 
tops, have the oven hot enough to bake them in twenty 
to thirty minutes. 

— 18 — 



RING ROLLS. 

Take one quart of sponge add one-half cup sugar, 
half cup lard, half a tablespoon salt, mix well, add 
about one pint water. In adding this water get the 
dough the temperature you want it, make a stiff dough 
and let rise, when light, turn out on your bread board 
and take rolling pin and roll about eight inches wide 
and one-fourth inch thick, grease with melted butter 
and fold, roll with the rolling pin a little, and then cut 
into strips half inch wide, take strip pull it a little 
longer, and at the same time twisting each end, now 
pinch the ends together, it will then be a round ring, 
let rise, grease with melted lard and bake, when baked 
make a little water icing (powdered sugar and water) 
and put a thin coat on each roll. 

TWIST ROLLS. 

To make twist rolls make dough same as for ring 
rolls, roll out the same twist and lay straight in pan. 

CURL ROLLS. 

Make same dough as for ring rolls, when dough is 
light turn out on bread board and roll out about six or 
seven inches wide and one-fourth inch thick, grease 
with melted butter and roll up same as jelley roll, take 
sharp knife and cut off pieces about half inch wide, set 
one cut side down next to pan, let rise, sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake. 



19 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Make sponge same as for bread, but make it with 
boiled milk that has cooled to the temperature want- 
ed, when sponge is light. To each quart of sponge 
add half cup sugar, tablespoon salt, half cup butter, 
and three eggs, mix well, then mix in enough flour to 
make medium stiff dough, let rise until light. You 
can make this dough into any shape you wish. The 
following shape is a very good one.. 

Roll round same as plain rolls, set to one side and 
let rise a few minutes. Now take a knife handle lay it 
crossways about center and press down almost mash- 
ing the roll into two pieces, grease with butter in place 
made by knife handle, then lay on side and mash open 
side together, put in pan with cut place just a little 
turned up, let rise, wash with egg and bake. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

Make same as for rolls, using same ingredients, 
but in making dough from the sponge use half graham 
flour. If you wish your graham rolls richer add more 
sugar and lard. 

WHOLE WHEAT ROLLS. 

Make same as for rolls, using same ingredients, 
but in making dough use all whole wheat flour, if you 
wish these rolls richer use more sugar and lard. 

— 20 — 



COFFEE CAKE. 

Make sponge same as for bread or rolls, when 
sponge is light. To each quart of sponge add three- 
fourths cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, tablespoon 
salt, four eggs or seven yolks, mix well, then mix in 
enough flour to make soft dough, when light turn out 
on floured bread board and roll out half inch thick, 
put in pan, when light wash with milk or cream, 
sprinkle with sugar and powder with cinnamon. If 
you like flavoring you can put in lemon extract to suit 

To make raisin coffee cake add raisins to the 
above. 

DOUGHNUTS WITH YEAST. 

Make dough same as coffee cake using same in- 
gredients. But make the dough stiffer, when light, 
turn out on well floured bread board, roll out with 
rolling pin one-half inch thick, cut into squares or 
what ever shape you wish, or use doughnut cutter, set 

in warm place let rise, when light fry in hot grease, 
dip in sugar and powder with cinnamon. 

TEA BISCUITS, 

Six cups of flour. 

Four and a half teaspoons baking pow<! 
Three teaspoons salt. I 

Three ounces lard. 
■s Two and a half cups sweet milk s M 

— 21 — 



Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together, 
then rub the lard into the flour, put in the milk and 
mix into a light dough. Do not work this dough very 
much, you will toughen it, roll out about half inch 
thick, cut with round cutter, set close together in pan, 
stick with fork and wash with cream or milk. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart flour. 

Two rounding tablespoons baking powder. 

One tablespoon salt. 

One large tablespoon lard. 
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, mix in 
lard and pour in enough cold water or milk to make 
a soft dough, mix very light do not toughen by work- 
ing, make dough just as soft as you can handle it, roll 
out to about half inch thick, cut with round cutter, put 
in pan and bake at once in hot oven. 

SODA BISCUITS. 

One-fourth teaspoon soda. 
Two tablespoons baking powder. 
Half pound lard. 
One and a half pints buttermilk. 
Half tablespoon salt. 

Add flour enough to make the proper dough. 
Take pan biscuits are to be mixed in, sift in about 
half the amount of flour, sifting in the flour at the 



same time the baking powder, put in trie salt and lard 
mix into the flour, dissolve the soda in part of the milk 
and add, then add the rest of the milk, mix, then add 
enough flour to make your dough the proper stiffness, 
work dough well, working in all the scraps, lay on 
well dusted bread board and roll out until almost half 
inch thick, cut with round cutter and bake in hot oven, 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

■ Two cupfuls of corn meal. 

s One cupful of rye meal. 

One cupful of graham flour. 

One cupful of white flour. 

One teaspoon salt. 

Two tablespoon baking powder. 

One-half cup molasses. 

One quart of buttermilk or sour milk. 

One-half teaspoon soda. 
Put corn meal, rye meal and graham flour in bowl, 
put baking powder into white flour and sift into bowl, 
add salt and mix all together, dissolve soda and mo- 
lasses in milk, add and mix well, it should be about 
the stiffness of muffins. 

If fresh milk is used instead of sour milk use mora 
baking powder and no soda. 

Put in well greased deep tins with cover, fill them 
almost half full. Set in a pan with inch and a half 
water in it, put in stove, and bake about three and a 



half hours, when about half baked, let stove cool down 
a little. Or bake in a steamer. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Two pounds flour. 

One pint milk, more or less. 

jrlalf pound butter. 

Tablespoon salt. 
Rub the butter in the flour, make a hole, add the 
milk with the salt in it and mix. When mixed beat it 
out into a medium thin sheet, fold it over and again 
beat it out into a medium thin sheet, repeat this until 
the dough is smooth and fine, then roll it to the thin- 
ness you wish your biscuits to be cut with small round 
cutter, dock with docker, or stick with fork if you 
have no docker, put in pan and bake in heat that will 
bake them thorough, giving them a nice light brown 
color, keep in a dry place, as this biscuit to be good 
must be very dry. 

Another way is to cut into little squares, roll 
round, then mash flat and dock, bake same as directed 
above. 

SWEET BISCUIT. 

Two pounds flour. 

Half pound lard. 

Two tablespoons baking powder. 

Half pound sugar. 

— 24 -s 



One pint milk. 
One teaspoon salt. 
Mix and sift together the flour, baking powder, 
sugar and salt, then add the milk, mix up very light 
but thoroughly, roll out about half inch thick, cut with 
round cutter and bake in hot oven. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. 

Three eggs. 

Two and a half cups flour. 

One and one-half tablespoonful baking powder. 

One-half cupful butter. 

Two and one-half cupfuls milk. 
One cupful corn meal. Cream sugar and butter, 
cat in the eggs, add milk and mix well, sift the bak- 
ing powder, flour and corn meal together, and mix in. 
Fill in well greased moulds and bake in hot oven. 

WHEAT CAKES. 

Two eggs. 

One-half of a teaspoonful of salt. 
One tablespoonful of sugar. 
One-half cup sweet milk. 
One teaspoonful baking powder. 
Flour. 
Sift together the baking powder sugar, salt and 

— 25 — 



about half as much flour as you think it will take, beat 
up eggs well and mix in milk, mix all together and 
add enough flour to make a soft batter, heat the griddle 
iron, grease well and bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS WITH BAKING POWDER. 

One and one-fourth cupfuls granulated sugar. 

One-half cup butter. 

Three eggs. 

One pint milk. 

Four cups flour. 

One tablespoonful baking powder. 

Cinnamon or lemon flavor. 
Whip the sugar, butter and eggs together, add 
the milk and flavoring, mix well, sift the baking pow- 
der and flour together and mix in, roll out to thickness 
desired, cut with doughnut cutter and cook in hot 
grease, dip in granulated sugar and powder with cin- 
namon. 

DOUGHNUTS. No. 2. 

One and one-fourth pounds sugar. 

Three ounces butter. 

One egg. 

One-fourth teaspoon salt. 

Teaspoonful spices and extract. 

One quart milk or water. 

Three-fourths ounce baking powder* V 

— 26 — 



Enough flour to make a medium stiff dough. 
Follow same directions as for making doughnuts 
with baking powder. 

DOUGHNUTS. No. 3. 

Your pounds flour. 
One-fourth pound butter. 
)ne and one-fourth pound sugar. 
3ne quart milk. 
Six eggs. 

Two and one-half ounces baking powder. 
Rub sugar, butter and eggs together add milk and 
mix in, then add the flour with the baking powder sift- 
ed in it. Then treat same as for any other doughnut. 



— 27 



%g 



GENERAL REMARKS. 



e^s,©^>© 



Use the very best materials in making pastry. 
The flour should be of a good quality and free from 
mould or must. The lard or butter should be good 
and clean and if the butter is very salty it should be 
washed a little in cold water. The water used should 
always be cold, in hot weather use ice water. 

When the crust is made it makes it much more 
flaky and brittle if covered with a cloth and set in a 
cool place for half hour or hour, in summer it should 
be placed in the ice box. 

It improves pie crust to add a little baking pow- 
der. One teaspoonful to a quart (one pound) of flour 
is sufficient. 

Pie crust can be kept a week or more and the last 
will be just as good as the first, if put in a tightly cov- 
ered dish, and set in a cool place in cold weather and 
put in the ice box in warm weather, you can then make 
fresh pie every day with little trouble. 



29 



Baking pastry requires a good solid heat. To get 
a nice bake on your pastry have the oven hot with a 
good bed of coals in your fire box so you can keep 
your oven at the right temperature. You can try your 
oven and see how hot it is by sprinkling a little flour in 
it, if the flour stays white quite awhile your oven is too 
cold, if the flour browns in a little while it is right, and 
if it browns quick and then burns it is too hot. 

Pie tins should be greased with good butter or 
lard before being used. It adds very much to the bot- 
tom crust if tin is dusted with cracker meal, always 
after dusting turn tin over and knock out the loose 
meal. 

In making liquid pies such as pumpkin, custard, 
etc., or hot fruit pies, it is much better to bake the bot- 
tom crust a little before putting in the filling. Always 
stick the crust in a few places with a fork before put- 
ting it in the oven, this keeps the steam from forming 
under it and raising it up. Baking a little before fill- 
ing keeps the crust from being sodden. 

If you do not bake the bottom crust always let the 
filling cool before putting it in. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of good fresh solid 
butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg, a 
teaspoonful salt, a tablespoonful sugar and a cupful 

— 30 — 



ice water more or less, just enough to make a medium 
stiff dough. Half fill a bowl or pan with cold water. 
Wash the butter in this, working it with the hands 
until it is light and waxy. This takes out the salt and 
buttermilk, and lightens it, so the pastry is more deli- 
cate. Divide the butter half and half, press out into 
thin sheets and put in a pan of cold water to harden, 
mix the salt, sugar, baking powder and flour together, 
rub into this one sheet of the butter, whip the egg into 
a little of the water and add, then add enough water 
to make medium stiff dough. Sprinkle the board light- 
ly with flour. Turn the paste on this and roll out 
quickly and lightly with the rolling pin. Do not break 
the paste. Roll from you, and to either side. When it 
is about one-fourth of an inch thick, take the remain- 
ing butter draining as much of the water off as possible 
and breaking it into little bits spread them over half 
the paste sprinkle very lightly with flour. Fold the 
paste that has no butter on it over the butter then fold 
again and roll out to about one-third of an inch this 
time, fold the dough in from the sides, not letting the 
edges touch, then fold in from the ends and roll agaim 
Repeat this four times if for pies. But if for pastries 
tarts, etc., repeat six times. Use as little flour as pos- 
sible while rolling, excess flour ruins it. Place on the 
ice to harden, when it has been rolled the last time. It 
should stay on ice at least an hour before using. In 
hot weather if the paste gets sticky while rolling it 

— 31 — 



out, place on ice a few minutes, as soon as it gets 
chilled it will roll much easier. 

PLAIN PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, and ice 
water enough to make a medium stiff dough. Rub the 
butter into the flour, add the water and mix into dough. 
Turn out on dusted board and roll out until one-fourth 
inch thick, fold in from the sides, do not let the edges 
touch, then fold in from the ends, fold over again, set 
in ice box or cold place for half hour, then take out 
and roll out and fold as before. Repeat and set in ice 
box or cool place again for half hour, then roll out 
and fold twice more. Then set in ice box for one hour 
before using. Do not use much flour for dusting while 
rolling. 

PATTIES OR SHELLS FOR TARTS. 

Roll out puff-paste to about one-fourth inch in 
thickness, cut out with medium size cutter, take a 
smaller cutter and cut inside the large cutter leaving a 
ring. Put in oven and bake. When done take a small 
knife and cut the center raised crust out. May be used 
for oyster or veal patties or filled with jam, jelly or pre- 
serves, as tarts. Or if you have patty pans you may 
line them with puff-paste, they will be fine filled with 
jam, jelly or preserves, and covered with meringue 



32 



(one tablespoonful of sugar to the white of one egg 
well beaten) and browned in oven. If cutters are 
dipped in hot water the edges will rise higher and be 
smoother. 

JELLY TARTS. 

Make a good puff paste, roll out very thin, cut 
into pieces about three inches square, wash with well 
beaten Qgg, then turn the corners in to the center, bake 
in hot oven, when cool put little squares of jellie in the 
center. 

CREAM TARTS. 

Line patty tins with a good puff paste and bake, 
when shells are cool, fill with sweetened whipped 
cream, lay on the cream a little jelly. 

FRUIT TARTS. 

Line patty shells with puff paste rolled very thin, 
bake in a hot oven until a light brown, fill the shells 
with fresh sweetened fruit, cover with sweetened and 
flavored whipped cream. 

CUSTARD TARTS. 

Line patty pans with best puff paste rolled out 
very thin, bake in hot oven until a delicate brown, 
then fill with the following which must be cooked first : 

— 33 — 



Four eggs, two cups milk, tablespoonful cornstarch, 
one cupful sugar, two teaspoonsful vanilla, cover with 
meringue and brown. 

APPLE TARTS. 

Make shells out of rich puff paste and fill with the 
following, which must be cooked first. Two cups 
apple sauce, two eggs, one cupful rich cream, juice of 
one lemon, one and one-fourth cupful granulated su- 
gar. Make meringue to go on top and brown. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

Rub into one pound of flour half pound of lard, 
add a pinch of salt, add enough cold water to make a 
soft dough, work just as little as possible. 

GOOD PIE CRUST. 

Rub into one pound of flour four ounces of lard 
and four ounces of good butter, add a pinch of salt, add 
enough cold water to make a soft dough, do not work 
it any more than to get it mixed, the dough should be 
just as soft as you can handle it. 

RICH PIE CRUST. 

Sift one teaspoonful baking powder in one pound 
of flour, rub into this eight ounces of good butter, add 
a pinch of salt, add enough cold water to make a soft 



34 



dough, do not work, mix it just as light as you can, 
just so there is no dry flour left, put in ice box or cold 
place and let set for an hour or more, it will then be 
ready to use. 

HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

After making the pie dough take a portion of it 
and lay on well dusted board, dust the dough on top 
just a little, take rolling pin and rub a little flour on it, 
make two rolls side ways, then dust the dough again 
if sticky, then proceed by rolling to and from you, roll 
until the crust is the thinness desired, about one-eighth 
inch is about right. Rolling out the crust this way 
you do not have to turn it over and over, which ruins 
crust to a certain extent, when not turned it makes it 
flaky and crisp. Now fit the rolled out dough to the 
pie pan, cut the edge all the way around, take dough 
cut off and some fresh dough and roll as before, the 
top crust should be a little thinner than the bottom, 
when rolled to thinness desired, fold over until it 
looks like a half crust, take a sharp knife and cut sev- 
eral places along the doubled edge, this is for the 
steam to escape. Now fill your pie plate with your 
filling, lay top crust on pie and turn back the laped part 
of the crust press around the rim sealing the two 
crusts, take a fork and mark around the edge, dipping 
the fork in flour occasionally to prevent sticking, brush 
the loose flour off the top and bake in rather a quick 

— 35 — 



oven until a light brown, and the filling boils up 
through the cut places in the crust. 

If you wish a gloss on your pie wash the top with 
an egg before baking. 

HOW TO PREPARE FILLINGS FOR PIES. 

Never soak any pie filling over night. Dried or 
evaporated fruit such as peaches, apricots or apples 
should be cooked until swelled. About one quart of 
water to half pound of fruit. When fruit is cooked 
tender stir in about cup and a half granulated sugar. 
Amount of sugar depending on the sourness of the 
fruit, add a pinch of salt. 

It improves fresh berry pies to mix the berries 
with sugar and let stand over night, then drain the 
juice off and boil adding a little corn starch, pour this 
back on the berries, they will then be ready for pie. 

MINCE MEAT FOR PIE. 

Two pounds of apples chopped fine. 

One and one-fourth pound of washed and 

cleaned currants. 
One and one-fourth pounds of lean boiled beef, 
i chopped fine. 

Four ounces citron. 

One orange and two lemons grated and the 
! juice. 



36 



One and one-lialf pound of cleaned seedless rai- 
sins. 
One and one-fourth pounds brown sugar. 
Half nutmeg, grated. 

Four tablespoonsful of mixed ground spices. 
Brandy, wine or cider to taste, add enough 
! of the beef broth to moisten well. 

MINCE PIE. 

Line well greased and dusted pie tin with your 
pie crust. Put in the mince meat. Put on top crust 
with a number of holes cut in it, bake until a light 
brown, and until the mince meat in the pie boils up 
through the cut places in the crust 

LEMON PIE. No. 1, 

Boil half cup apples and one cup sugar in one and 
one-half cupsful of water until apples are soft. Dis- 
solve two tablespoonsful cornstarch in a little cold 
water, stir into cooked apples while cooking, remove 
from the stove and when cool add two eggs, pinch of 
salt, juice and grated rind of one lemon, and teaspoon- 
ful good butter. Run through colander and fill pie 
pans lined with your pie crust, bake in hot oven, when 
baked, beat the whites of two eggs adding two table- 
spoonsful sugar, spread over top and set back in oven 
until brown, . ^,, 

— 37 — 



LEMON PIE. No. 2. 

Squeeze out the juice of two lemons, and grate 
the rind in a deep dish, add a cup and a half of granu- 
lated sugar and two tablespoonsful flour, or one of 
cornstarch, and mix, add the yolks of three eggs 
(saving the whites) juice of lemons and a small table 
spoonful butter, whip up thoroughly, add two cups 
water and mix, set this into another dish containing 
water and boil until it thickens. Remove it from the 
fire and when cool, pour it into deep pie tin lined with 
your pie crust, bake, and when done have the whites 
beaten stiff with two heaping tablespoonsful sugar, 
spread this over the top,, return to the oven and let 
brown. 

LEMON PIE. No. 3. 

One cupful of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, one 
tablespoonful soft or melted butter, one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour or one heaping teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, and the juice and a little of the rind grated, 
whip this up thoroughly, then add one cupful water 
and mix. Put in pie tin lined with your pie dough 
and bake thirty-five or forty minutes, when baked 
have the egg whites beaten stiff with a tablespoonful 
sugar added, spread over the top and return to the 
oven and let brown. 

If the above filling is boiled in a double boiler a 

— 38 — 



little before putting in pie crust it will be some better. 

LEMON PIE. No. 4, 

Grate the rind and use the juice of one lemon, add 
three-fourths of a cup of sugar, a tablespoonful of melt- 
ed butter, and the yolks of two eggs, whip this up 
thoroughly, then add a scant pint of milk with two 
tablespoonsful of cornstarch dissolved in it. Put in 
pie tin lined with pie dough and bake, when baked 
have the whites of the eggs well beaten with two table- 
spoonsful sugar added, spread on top of pie and return 
to oven and brown. 

COOKED GREEN APPLE PIE. 

Take as many apples as you wish for your pies, 
peel and core them, also cut out all defective and rot- 
ten places, put in dish, add a little water and put on 
stove and let cook, when soft sweeten to taste, let cook 
just a little longer stirring them well then let cool, 

when cool flavor with lemon or lemon juice, cinnamon 
or nutmeg, line pie tin with your pie dough and bake 

in solid heat until a light brown. 

CANNED APPLE. No. 1. 

Take the apples out of the can, pour off the liquor, 
and chop up the apples, sweeten to taste, add table- 
spoonful melted butter, flavor with nutmeg, cinnamon 
or the juice of one lemon, line pie pan with your pie 

— 39 — 



erust, put in the filling, put on top crust and bake in 
hot oven until a light brown. 

CANNED APPLE. No. & 

Take the apples out of the can, put the juice in 
dish and apples in another, chop up the apples adding 
one-half cup of granulated sugar to each pie. Put the 
juice On the stove and let come to a boil. Dissolve a 
little cornstarch in cold water and stir in enough to 
make it a little thick,, add the juice of half a lemon, or 
flavor with cinnamon or nutmeg, stir well then, mix 
into the chopped apples. 

Line a pie pan with your pie crust and fill,, put on 

top crust. Top crust must have several places cut in 

it to let the steam escape. Bake in hot oven until a 
light brown. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Take two cups of cooked apples, dried, canned or 
fresh, mix in one cup sugar more or less, amount of 
sugar depending on the sourness of the apples, stir in 
the juice of half a lemon, beat the whites of two or 
three eggs stiff, adding a pinch of salt. Now mix the 
tgg whites into the apples, (the apple must be cool). 
Line pie pan with your pie dough and fill, for top crust 
lay strips one inch wide and one inch apart across the 
pie, then lay more strips across the other way, forming 
a sort of chequer board. Put in oven and bake a light 

— 4a — 



brown. 

If preferred the egg white can be put on top and 
not mixed in, but in this case the pie must first be 
baked, then the white put on and browned. 

SLICED APPLE PIE. 

Take good sound apples, peel, quarter, and cut out 
the core, then slice into thin, slices. Line your 
pie pan with your pie dough, fill with the sliced apple, 
sprinkle over the apples half cup granulated sugar, 
more or less amount of sugar depending on sourness 
of apples. Scatter little pieces of butter over it and 
flavor with the juice of half a lemon, cinnamon or nut- 
meg, sprinkle with a little flour. For top roll out your 
dough and cut into strip one inch wide and long 
enough to reach across the pie, lay across the pie about 
an inch apart, then lay strips cross the other way in 
like manner. Put in oven and bake until a light brown, 
and the apples are done. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Take one cupful of well cooked dried, fresh or 
canned apples, mash and rub through colander, add 
half cup granulated sugar, more or less, amount de- 
pending on the sourness of the apples. Now mix the 
yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonsful sugar, one 
heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch or two of flour, 

— 41 — 



one pint of milk and a pinch of salt, whip this well, 
then set on stove and let it come to a boil, then add ap- 
ples and mix, take off and let cool, when cool put in 
pie pan, lined with your pie dough and bake, when 
baked have the whites of the eggs whipped stiff with 
two tablespoonsful sugar added, spread on pie and re- 
turn to oven and let brown. 

This can be made without boiling the custard. 

PLAIN CHERRY PIE. 

Wash and seed enough cherries for one pie, to 
each cup of cherries take three-fourths cupful sugar 
more or less, amount of sugar depending on the sour- 
ness of your cherries, line pie pan with your pie dough 
and fill, sprinkle a little flour over the cherries, put on 
top crust and bake in hot oven until a light brown and 
until the filling boils up through holes in crust. 

CHERRY CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie plate with your pie dough, lay enough 
cherries in bottom to make about one-third of the 
thickness of the pie. Make a custard of the following: 
Yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonsful sugar, one 
tablespoonful cornstarch or two of flour, one cup of 
milk and a pinch of salt, whip this, thoroughly mixing 
it, pour on cherries and put in stove and bake, when 
baked have ready the whites beaten stiff with two 



42 



tablespoonsful sugar added, spread on top and return 
to oven and brown. 

BEST CHERRY PIE. 

Line a pie tin with your pie dough and put in 
enough washed and seeded cherries to make about one- 
third the thickness of the pie, dissolve one ounce of 
gelatin in one pint of water, add two tablespoonsful 
of granulated sugar, mix well, pour over the cherries 
and bake, when done let cool a little. Then have 
ready the whites of two or three eggs whipped stiff with 
two tablespoonsful of sugar and a pinch of salt added. 
Let pie cool a little and spread the whites on it and 
return to oven and brown. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Stir and wash two cups raisins, put them into a 
stewpan, with one and one-fourth cupfuls cold water 
and three-fourths cupful sugar. Cover tight and let 
come to a boil, then simmer for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Make a smooth paste of some flour and cold 
water, pour in enough to thicken a little, must stir con- 
stantly while pouring in the paste, or it will be lumpy, 
add a tablespoonful butter and a teaspoonful lemon 
extract. When cool bake between two crusts in a hot 
oven until a light brown. 

— 43 — 



r PLUM OR DAMSON PIE. 

Use good ripe plums or damsons, wash thor- 
oughly. Line a deep pie tin with a rich crust, fill with 
the damsons or plums, if they are free stone damsons 
they should be seeded, sprinkle over them enough 
granulated sugar to sweeten them, then sprinkle over 
the sugar one tablespoonful flour, put a small piece of 
butter in, put on top crust and baek in a moderate 
oven until a light brown and the filling boils up 
through the cut places in the crust. 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Two cups sugar. j 

One-half cupful butter. 

One and one-half cupfuls cream. 

Six eggs. 

Half teaspoonful vanilla. 
The above is enough for two pies, cream the sugar 
and butter, beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separ- 
ately, whip in the yolks, leave out enough of the whites 
for the top, add rest and mix, add the cream and mix, 
add the flavoring and mix. Line a deep dish with a 
good crust and bake in a moderate oven until a deli- 
cate brown. When done take the remaining egg 
whites, add sugar and flavoring, spread on top, return 
to the oven and brown. 

_ 44 — 



r CUSTARD PIE. 

I Yolks of two egg's, save whites. 

Three tablespoonsful sugar. 

One and half tablespoonsful cornstarch or two 
I heaping tablespoonsful flour, 

i One pint milk. 

One pinch salt. 
Mix all together and whip thoroughly, put in pie 
plate lined with your pie crust, bake in hot oven, when 
done have ready the whites beaten stiff with two table- 
spoonsful sugar and a pinch of salt added, spread over 
pie and return to oven and brown, 

CREAM PIE. 

Three cups cream. 

Three tablespoonsful cornstarch. 

Yolks of three eggs. 

One tablespoonful lemon extract. 
Take cream, cornstarch and yolks and wliip to- 
gether, then put on stove and boil until it thickens, take 
off stove and stir in lemons. Line pie tin with your 
pie dough and bake in oven, stick pie dough with fork 
before baking, this will let the steam from under it, 
keeping the crust from raising up, put in filling and 
bake, when baked have ready the whites beaten stiff 
with half cup sugar added, spread on top and return to 
oven and brown. .j 

— 45 — 



CREAM PIE. No. % 

Three cups milk. 

Two eggs. 

Three tablespoonsful cornstarch 

One teaspoon lemon or orange extract. 
Whip together the eggs, milk, extract and cornv 
starch until smooth. Put in pie tin lined with your 
pie dough and bake in hot oven-. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Yolks of three eggs. 

Three tablespoonsful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Half cup of granulated cocoanut. 
Whip together the eggs, cornstarch and sugar-, and 
add the cocoanut, put in pie tin lined with plain pie 
crust and bake, when baked have ready the whites 
beaten stiff with half cup sugar added, spread over 
top and return to oven and brown. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE PIE. 

One-fourth of a cupful grated chocolate, one pint 
of water, yolks of two eggs, (save the whites) two 
tablespoonsful cornstarch or four of flour, half cupful 
of sugar, and teaspoonful vanilla, dissolve the choco- 
late in part of the water by putting it on the back of 
the stove and let simmer,, add the rest of the water, e^g 

— 48 — 



yolks, cornstarch, and sugar, whip all together, put on 
stove and boil until it thickens, add vanilla. Line pie 
plate with your pie dough, set another pan the same 
size in it and bake, when half done, take pan out, and 
bake done, then pour in filling, whip the whites of the 
eggs stiff, add two tablespoonsful of sugar, spread on 
top and set in oven and let brown. 

BEST CHOCOLATT PIE. 

Take one-third of a cupful chocolate, grated ; one 
pint of milk, one-third of a cup sugar, three eggs, and 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Dissolve the chocolate in a 
little of the milk, whip up the eggs and sugar in the 
rest of the milk, pour in when chocolate is dissolved. 
Put on stove and 1-et boil for three minutes. Line pie 
tin with your pie dough and hake, the dough should be 
stuck with a fork, or another pan the same size set in 
it, to keep crust from raising up, when done pour in 
the filling, let cool a little, then beat the whites of two 
^tggs stiff with two tablespoonsful sugar added, 
spread on to top, dust with sugar, set in oven and 
l>rown, 

PLAIN RHUBARB PIE. 

Cut the leaf off the stem and pull the skin off, cut 
Into small pieces. Line pie pan with your pie crust 
and fill with the rhubarb, to each cupful of rhubarb 

— 47 — 



lake half cup sugar, sprinkle this on the rhubarb, 
sprinkle with a little flour or cornstarch, put on top 
crust, then put in oven and bake until the crust is a 
light brown, and the rhubarb is cooked done. 

GOOD RHUBARB PIE. 

Cut the ends off the stern and peel the skin off, 
cut into small pieces, to each cupful of rhubarb take 
half cup sugar, put sugar on rhubarb and let set over 
night, next morning strain the juice off and set on the 
stove and cook, when boiling add the rhubarb and 
cook until tender, dissolve a little cornstarch or flour 
in cold water, and pour in enough to thicken a little. 
Line pie pan with your pie dough and put in the filling 
(the filling should be cooled before going in crust) 
put on top crust and bake in hot oven until the crust 
is a light brown. 

BEST RHUBARB PIES. 

Cut the ends of the stalk and pull the skin off, cut 
into small pieces, cover well with sugar and let set 
over night, next morning drain the juice off and put 
on stove and cook, when it comes to a boil add the 
rhubarb, cook until tender, take off stove and let cool, 
when cool add one or two eggs, half cup cracker meal 
and pinch of salt to each pie, mix all together. Line 
pie pan with your pie crust, fill, put on top crust and 
bake in a hot oven until a light brown. 

— 48 — 



PLAIN GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Stem and wash as many gooseberries as you think 
it will take for your pie, for each cupful of gooseberries 
take half cupful sugar, or more, amount of sugar de- 
pending on ripeness of berries. Line your pie pan 
with pie dough and fill with berries, sprinkle the su- 
gar over them, then sprinkle some flour or cornstarch 
over the sugar, put on your top crust, be sure and 
make the bottom and top crust stick together around 
the edge, and cut a number of holes in the top crust, 
bake in hot oven until a light brown. 

BEST GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Take enough gooseberries for one pie, stem and 
wash them, for each cup of gooseberries take half cup- 
ful sugar, add just a little water to start them to cook, 
put on stove and cook until done, let cool, when cooled 
mix in one egg and half cupful cracker meal to each 
pie. Line pie pan with pie dough and fill with the 
filling, put on the top crust and bake in hot oven 
until a light brown. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Grate the rind and use the juice of one large or 
two small oranges, add to this one-half cupful sugar, 
the well beaten yolks of two or three eggs, (saving the 
whites for frosting), one tablespoonful flour, or one 

-- 49 — 



and one-half teaspoonsful cornstarch, tablespoonful 
melted butter, and one cup water, mix all together 
thoroughly. Line pie pan with pie crust and fill, 
bake in a hot oven until filling gets thick, when done, 
have ready the whites beaten stiff with three table- 
spoonsful sugar mixed in, spread on top, sprinkle with 
sugar and put in oven and brown. 

FRESH CURRANT PIE. 

Stem and wash the currants, then mash, to each 
cup of mashed currants add one cupful granulated 
sugar and one well fteaten egg. Line pie pan with 
pie dough and fill, put several little pieces of butter 
over the filling, put on top crust and bake in hot oven 
until a light brown and until the filling boils up 
through the holes in crust. 

If the currants are very green they should be 
cooked a little before going into the pie. 

DRIED APRICOT. 

Wash and pick over the dried apricots, put in pan, 
add a little water and cook until soft, when soft sweet- 
en to taste stirring in the sugar, then let cool. Line 
pie pan with plain pie crust, fill, put on top crust and 
bake a light brown. 

DRIED APRICOT. No. 2. 

Wash and pick over the dried apricots, put in pan, 



50 



add a little water and cook until very soft, run 
through colander, sweeten to taste. Line pie tin with 
plain pie dough, fill, put several little pieces of butter 
over the top, cover, and bake a light brown. 

FRESH APRICOT. 

Cut out the bad places, and cut off the seed and 
wash. Line pie pan with plain pie crust and fill, 
sprinkle over with three-fourths cupful granulated 
sugar, more or less amount depending on the sourness 
of the fruit and the size of the pie, sprinkle a little 
flour or cornstarch over the sugar, and put several lit- 
tle pieces of butter over it, cover with top crust and 
bake in hot oven until the crust is a light brown and 
the filling boils up through the holes in crust. 

APPLE APRICOT PIE. 

Apricots are so rich that they do not make an ex- 
tra good pie. Take half enough fresh or dried apri- 
cots and half enough fresh or dried apples, put them in 
a pan, add a little water, boil until soft, then run 
through a colander, sweeten to taste and let cool. 
Line pie dish with pie dough and fill, put a tablespoon- 
ful melted butter over the filling, sprinkle with a little 
cinnamon. Put on top crust and bake a light brown. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

The blackberries should be picked over and 



51 — :; 



washed, drain all the water off. To each cupful of 
blackberries take half cupful sugar more or less, 
amount depending on sourness and ripeness of the 
berries. Line pie tin with plain pie dough and fill, 
put several little pieces of butter on,, then put on top 
crust and bake until a light brown and the filling boils 
up through the holes in the crust. 

DEW BERRY PIE. 

Make same as for blackberry pie. , 

FRESH PEACH PIE. 

Peel enough peaches and slice into thin slices, to 
each cup of sliced peaches add half cup sugar. Line 
pie pan with pie dough and fill, put tablespoonful 
melted butter over the peaches and sugar. Put on top 
crust and bake a light brown and until the fruit boils 
up through the holes in the crust. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Chop the peaches up fine, sweeten to taste, fill pie 
pan lined with pie crust, flavor with a little butter. 
Put on top crust and bake in hot oven. 

PLAIN DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Pick over and wash the dried peaches, add a little 
water and cook until soft, stir in enough sugar to 

— 52 — 



sweeten, let cool. Line pie tin and fill, bake in hot 
oven, 

GOOD DRIED PEACH PIE, 

Pick over and thoroughly wash the peaches for 
your pies, add a little water and cook until very soft, 
then run through a colander, for each cupful peaches 
take almost half cupful sugar stir together, fill pie tin 
lined with dough put tablespoonful butter over top, of 
€lling, put on top crust and bake in hot oven. 

PLAIN PUMPKIN PIE. 

, One pint of fresh cooked or canned pumpkin. 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar. 

Two tablespoonsful Hour. 
' Four eggs. 

One pint milk. 

Cinnamon, ginger and salt to taste. 
Mix the pumpkin, sugar, flour and egg together, 
whip this up well, add the cinnamon, ginger and salt 
and mix, add the milk little at a time, stirring it in, 
when milk is all in. Line pie tin with puff paste or 
pie dough, fill with the filling and bake in a hot oven. 

GOOD PUMPKIN PIE. 

Peel the pumpkin cut into small pieces, add a lit- 
tle water and boil until very soft, mash a$id rum 

— 53 — 



through colander, or use canned pumpkin. To — ^ 
Dint of pumpkin add the following: 

One-half cupful sugar. 

Half cupful good molasses. 

Two eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful cinnamon. 

Two teaspoonsful ginger. 

Dne teaspoonful salt. 

One tablespoonful flour. 

One cupful milk. 

Mix pumpkin, sugar, molasses cinnamon, gin- 
ger, salt and flour, whipping them well, beat eggs, add 
and mix y add the milk and mix. Line deep pie tin 
with puff paste or pie dough, put in the filling and bake 
; ti a hot oven until a light brown, 

BEST PUMPKIN PIE. 

Take the whole pumpkin, put in pan and set in 
oven and let bake four to five hours, when done cut the 
pumpkin open, scrape out the seeds, then scrape out 
the meat in a dish, run this through a colander. T/ ^ 
one pint of pumpkin add the following: 

One cupful sugar. 

Half cup best molasses. 

Four eggs. 

One and one-half cupful thick sweet cream I 

Three teaspoonsful ginger. 

One teaspoonful cinnamon. 

— 54 — 



. t f One-half teaspoonful salt. 

Two teaspoonsful cornstarch. 
To the pumpkin add the sugar, molasses, ginger, 
cinnamon and salt, dissolve the cornstarch in the 
cream, then add and thoroughly mix, beat the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately, add the yolks and 
mix, then add the whites stir in lightly. Line deep 
pie pan with puff paste or best pie crust, fill and bake 
In a hot oven until a light brown. Then cover top 
with whipped cream sweetened a little. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

One and one-half cup boiled and pulped sweet 

potatoes. 
One and one-half cupfuls milk. 
Three-fourths cup sugar. 
One-half teaspoonful lemon or two tablespoons- 

ful brandy. 
Yolks of two eggs (save whites.) 
Mix the potato, milk, sugar, eggs, salt and flavor- 
ing all together. Line a pie tin with a rich pie dough 
and bake in a hot oven until a light brown. Beat the 
whites stiff, adding tablespoonful sugar, spread on top 
and return to oven and brown. 

SLICED SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Peel the potatoes and bake, when cool slice in 
small slices into a deep pan lined with a good crusty 



55 



lay a layer of slices, sprinkle with sugar, repeat until 
pie is filled, put two tablespoonsful melted butter in, 
pour in a little milk or cream, put on top crust and 
bake in hot oven a light brown. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound sugar. 

One pound raisins. 

One pound currants. 

One-half pound citron and orange peel. 

One pound suet chopped fine. * 

Five eggs. 

Three teaspoonsful soda. 

Three teaspoonsful cinnamon. 

Two teaspoonsful salt. . . 

One pint water. 

Flour enough to make medium soft dough 
Mix all together, put in sack and boil for five 
hours. Let set in cool dry place for one month. 
When you want to use it heat and serve with wine or 
brandy sauce. 

PEACH. DUMPLING. 

Take good, fresh, ripe fruit, wash and peel, cut 
into halves, taking seed out. Make a good rich puff 
paste and roll out one-fourth inch thick, cut into 
squares large enough to cover a peach. Take two 



56 



halves of the peaches and put together, fill the hole 
left by the seed with granulated sugar, and put a 
small piece of butter on top, set in the center of the 
square piece of puff paste, take the corners and fold 
over, making a ball, set in pan smooth side up, bake in 
moderate oven until a nice brown. Serve with 
whipped cream or cream sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLING. 

Take good sound ripe apples, wash, peel and cut 
the core out with a core cutter. Make a good puff 
paste or pie dough and roll out to one-fourth inch thick, 
cut in squares large enough to cover the apple. Wash 
squares of dough with tgg, set apple in center of 
dough, fill hole in center with sugar, put a piece of but- 
ter on top, flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg or juice of 
lemon, take corners of dough and fold over the apple 
making a ball, set in pan with folded side down. Bake 
in moderate oven until a light brown. Serve with 
sweetened whipped cream or cream sauce. 

FRUIT ROLL. 

Take any kind of pie fruit that is not too juicy. 
Make puff paste or a good pie dough, roil out to one- 
fourth inch thick, spread the filling all over it, except 
about an inch around the edge, roll up same as jelly 
roll, seal the ends and lay in pan with the joined side 
down, bake in moderate oven until a nice brown, cut 



57 



Into slices and serve with sweetened whipped cream, 
or the following sauce: One cup water, one tea- 
spoonful cornstarch, two tablespoonsful melted but- 
ter, half cupful sugar, lemon flavoring, mix the corn- 
starch and water, add the rest and cook. 






— 58 






GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

As so much depends on good ingredients in cake 
making, each ingredient will be dealt with separately. 
Flour. 

Flour is one of the most important ingredients 
used in cake making, so much depends on the flour that 
it is absolutely necessary to have the best if you wish 
your goods to be first class. 

The best flour for cake making is soft wheat, also 
called pastry flour, this flour is ground fine, and is es- 
pecially adapted to cake making. You can make cake 
from hard wheat flour but you must learn how to use 
it, as a general thing you should use a little less, much 
depending on the strength and milling of it. As there 
are so many brands of this kind of flour it is impossible 
to give a rule that will suit all. The only way is to 
buy a good brand, learn how to use it and stick to it. 

Flour should always be kept in a dry place, be- 
fore using: it for cake, it should be well dried out, but 



k & 



— 60 



never mix warm flour into cake, it should always be 
cool. Always sift the flour before using it. 

Butter. 
Butter is another important ingredient, it should 
always be thoroughly washed in several waters, the 
waters always being cold enough to keep the butter 
firm. Washing takes out the salt and buttermilk and 
makes it fresher thereby making it easier to cream. 

It is hard to make good cake, using butter that 
has butter coloring in it. It won't cream white. 
Oleomargarine is not a good substitute for butter in 
cake, but if you have to use it always use less than the 
recipe calls for. Cottolene comes nearer filling the 
place of good butter than anything else. But in using 
it only use about three-fourths as much as the recipe 
calls for butter if a recipe calls for one pound butter 
use twelve ounces cottolene. If your butter is strong 
use more flavoring. 

Sugar. 
Any good grade of sugar will give good results, 
but for best results and ease of working use powdered 
sugar. 

Flavoring and Baking Powder. 

There are so many different brands of flavoring 

and baking powder, that it is impossible to tell just 

how much to use, buy a good brand and learn to use 

it, and stick to it, and if the amount given in the recipe, 

— 61 — 



in your judgment is not enough or is too much change 
to suit yourself. 

Eggs. 

Eggs should be fresh if you wish good flavored 
and good looking fine grained cake. Eggs should al- 
ways be beaten up cold, in whipping the air into the 
egg if it is warm the walls of the air cells are weak and 
they soon break returning to liquid again, they are 
then hard to beat up again, but when they are cold it 
makes the air cells strong and once whipped up they 
stay, provided nothing warm is mixed in with them, 
therefore you can see that it is very necessary to have 
the other ingredients a little cool. 

For many years it has been customary to beat the 
yolks and whites separately, and many of the recipes in 
this book contain this in its instructions accompanying 
the recipe, this is done simply because it has been the 
custom. It is now being argued by many of the best 
workman in the baking trade that finer cake is made 
where the butter and sugar is creamed and the eggs 
are added one or two at a time and either whipped in 
with a good strong egg whip or creamed in with the 
hand. It is recommended that you try both ways and 
see for yourself which is the better way, this applies to 
where whole eggs are used. Where whites only are 
used they should be whipped stiff. A pinch of salt or 
soda added to eggs makes them beat easier. And al- 
ways whip the same direction. 



62 



Other Materials. 

Soda should always be dissolved in a little water 
or milk. Baking powder and cream of tartar should 
be sifted with the flour. 

All fruit such as raisins, currants, figs, etc., should 
be carefully picked over, and washed if necessary, 
then dried on a cloth near the fire. If not well dried 
the cake in which you put them will be heavy. Fruit 
should be rubbed in flour and the surplus flour shook 
off. 

Use ground spices or pulverize them. 
How Moulds and Tins Should be Prepared. 
Cake pans should be thoroughly cleaned and 
greased, unsalted butter is the best, let a little butter 
melt the salt will sink to the bottom, large pans should 
be lined with paper which should also be well greased, 
if the mould is not large enough you can let the paper 
extend above the mould, at least two thicknesses 
should be placed in the bottom, layer cake tins should 
be well greased then dusted with flour, then turned 
over and all surplus flour jarred out. 

The Oven and How to Bake. 
The oven should be moderately hot, it should be 
heated up before the cake is ready to go in. One way to 
tell if the oven is right is to put a small spoon of flour in 
the oven if this turns a nice brown in about five minutes 
the oven is alright, another way is to try it with a little 



63 



of the dough. Do not* open the oven door often when 
eake is in the oven the cold air won't do i{ any good, if 
the oven is too hot put a'paper'over the cake and try 
and regulate your fire. Be very "careful not to jar the 
cake while baking, it will fall Ft you do. The'best and 
easiest way to tell when the cake is' done is' to stick a 
broom straw in it if the straw comes ouf clean the cake 
is done. You can tell when layer and small cookies or 
cakes are done by pressing the finger down on them 
just a little if the cake raises back not leaving the im- 
pression made, the cake is done, but if the impression 
stays there the cake must bake longer. Cakes with 
molasses or fruit in them do not need as much heat. 
Mixing Cake. 

Never stir around after the butter and sugar are 
creamed, always mix from the bottom up and lap it 
over, this laps air into the cake dough and produces lit- 
tle air cells, which causes the dough to puff and swell 
when it comes in contact with the heat while baking. 

It takes work and experience to make good cake, 
if you will learn to do three things you will have no 
trouble, they are select good materials, cream and mix 
properly and be careful in baking. 

CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound good butter. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound flour. ; jl- ^ 

— 64 — 



One pound currants, cleaned and dried. 

Twelve eggs. 

Heaping teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cin- 
namon and mixed spices. 

Lemon flavoring. 

One pound mixed citron, lemon and orange peel. 

Half pound figs cut fine. 

Half pound dried cherries. 

One pound raisins, stoned. 
Cream the butter and sugar, beat the whites and 
yolks separately, and add to the creamed butter and 
sugar,add next the cinnamon, ginger, spices and flavor- 
ing, mix thoroughly, put the fruit in the flour and mix, 
then add, mixing in very lightly but thoroughly, grease 
mould and line with two or three thicknesses of paper 
greasing the paper with unsalted butter, bake in a slow 
oven until done, decorate to suit yourself. 

LARGE FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds good butter. - 

Two pounds powdered sugar. 5 

Two and one-fourth pounds flour. 

Eighteen eggs. 

One-fourth pound each of citron, lemon anh. 

orange peel. 
One pound chopped almonds. 
Tablespoonful good mixed spices. 
Two pounds of seedless or stoned raisins 

— C5 — 



chopped. l\' 

One pound chopped figs. 

Teaspoonful ground ginger. 

One-fourth pound cleaned currants. 

One teaspoonful lemon extract. 
Cream the butter and sugar, put the eggs in two at 
a time, thoroughly whipping them in with a good stiff 
egg whip, add the ground ginger, lemon extract and 
mixed spices, and mix thoroughly, add the chopped 
peel and the chopped almonds and mix, (the almonds 
should be skinned, soaking them a few minutes in hot 
water will make the skin slip off easy, then brown in 
the oven, when cool chop.) The fruit should be 
drenched in the flour and the flour shook off as much as 
possible, add the fruit and mix, then add the flour, 
and mix in very lightly but thoroughly. Line mould 
with several thicknesses of paper well greased with 
unsalted butter. This cake should be baked in a slow 
heat, a cake seven to nine pounds in weight, will take 
four and a half to six hours to bake according to the 
heat. When done ice and decorate in any style you 
may wish. 

LITTLE FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound, two ounces flour. ; * 

One pound good firm butter. ' % 

One pound powdered sugar. ': 

! Ten eggs. 

— 66 — 






Half pound currants. 

Half pound chopped figs. 

One and one-fourth pounds seedless or stoned 

raisins chopped. 
Half pound blanched almonds chopped. 
Half pound mixed citron, lemon and orange 

peels. 
Half nutmeg grated, 
f ablespoonful mixed spices. 
Two teaspoonsful ground ginger. 
Teaspoonful extract of lemon. 
Mix according to the directions of Large Fruit 
cake. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds flour. 

One pound butter. 

Jive pounds of raisins, currants, dried cherries. 

citron. 
Une pound chopped nuts. 
One tablespoonful ground cloves. 
Two tablespoonsful ground cinnamon. 
Two pounds powdered sugar. 
Sixteen eggs. 



67 



Lemon flavor. 
Cream the butter and sugar, dropping in the eggs 
a few at a time and whipping well, drench the fruit in 
the flour, take out and mix, add the flavoring extract 
and spices, mix well, then add the flour. Line mould 
with heavy paper, grease both mould and paper, fill 
and bake in slow oven. 

BIRTHDAY FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound good butter. 

One pound, two ounces of flour. 

One pound of sultana raisins. 

One teaspoonful good mixed spices. 

Half pound each of sliced citron, orange and le- 
mon peels. 

One pound sugar. 

Ten eggs. 

One-half pound blanched almonds chopped. 

One teaspoonful ground ginger. 

One cupful cleaned currants. 
Cream the butter, eggs and sugar, adding the gin- 
ger and spices while creaming, when creamed, add the 
flour and half mix; then add all but the currants, mix 



68 



lightly but thoroughly, when about mixed add the cur- 
rants. When mixed put it into a round cake tin, which 
has been well prepared side and bottom, let the paper 
stand up an inch above the tin, smooth the mixture 
level and bake in a slow heat. It will take about four 
hours to bake this cake. When half baked put a sheet 
of paper over it, this is to keep it from getting too 
much color. When you think it is baked draw it gent- 
ly to the front and stick a broom straw or wire in it, 
then take it out, if it comes out clean and smooth the 
cake is baked, if any of the mixture sticks it shows the 
cake is not fully baked, return to the oven as gently as 
possible. When baked, let cool, pull off the paper, and 
cut off the rough places with a sharp knife and ice. 



— 69 — 



ALMOND FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter. 

One pound sugar. 

One and one-half pounds flour. 

Ten eggs. 

One-half pound chopped figs. 

One pound of stoned or seedless raisins. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs two at a 
time, whipping them in with a good egg whip, drench 
the fruit in the flour, take fruit out of flour, shaking off 
all loose flour and mix in, sift the flour and baking pow- 
der together, mix in lightly but thoroughly, fill mould 
and cover top with split almonds, bake. 



ANGEL FOOD. 

Fourteen ounces flour. 
Fourteen ounces powdered sugar. 
Three-fourths teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Whites of twenty-four eggs. 
Flavoring, any kind. 
Sift the flour and cream of tartar together six to 
ten times, whip the eggs very stiff, when stiff add the 



70 



sugar a little at a time and thoroughly whip in, then 
add the flavoring, add the flour and fully but lightly 
mix it in. Bake in the regular angel food cake tins. 
The tins for this must be well cleaned and free from 
any roughness, and must not be greased, fill so the 
pan will be almost full when baked. When baked turn 
upside down, if cake does not drop out by the time it is 
cold take knife and run around the edge and give a 
gentle shake. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

One pound powdered sugar. i ? 

| One pound flour. \ 

Whites of twenty eggs. 

Half ounce cream of tartar. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
Beat the egg whites very stiff, add the flavoring 
and thoroughly whip in, sift the sugar, flour and cream 
of tartar eight times and mix in fully but lightly, fill 
your prepared moulds and bake in a moderate oven. 
When cold brush off the crumbs and ice with any good 
icing, and color to suit yourself. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar. 

One cupful flour. * 

Whites of eleven eggs. , /| 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. ,,. , . ;^_ 

— 71 — 



One even teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Sift the sugar, flour and cream of tartar eight to 
ten times, beat the white of eggs very stiff, adding a 
pinch of salt to them before commencing, mix the flav- 
oring into the eggs, then mix the flour in, mixing fully 
but lightly. Do not whip the flour in. Do not grease 
the moulds, they should be clean and free from grease. 
Fill your mould and bake in moderate oven, when cold 
ice with a good icing. 

POUND CAKE, 

Six eggs. 

One pound sugar. ! / 

One pound butter. . '- 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

One tablespoonful baking powder. 

One cup milk. 

Flavoring. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the milk, mixing 
well, sift the baking powder and flour together at least 
five times, add, mix in very lightly, add flavoring, beat 
eggs very light, add yolks first and mix in lightly, then 
add whites and mix in very lightly, put in mould, 
grease and lined with paper greased, and bake. 

POUND CAKE. 

Eleven eggs. 

One and one-fourth pounds flour. . 4 

— n — 



One pound of good butter. 
/ One pound of sugar. 

One tablespoonful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful lemon or vanilla extract. 
Cream the butter and sugar if you have it or can 
get it, use pulverized sugar, it will work easier and 
quicker, beat the eggs separately and add, sift the bak- 
ing powder in the flour, at least four times, add and mix 
in very lightly, add flavoring and mix lightly. Grease 
mould and line with paper, grease paper with unsalted 
butter, bake in a moderate heat until done. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound flour. 

One pound sugar. % 

One pound butter. *- 

Ten eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
Cream the butter and sugar (if you will use 
XXXX sugar you will find that it will cream much 
easier and faster) beat the eggs separately and add 
one or two at a time and whip in with a good 
strong egg whip, sift the baking powder with the flour 
four times, put in and mix lightly, add flavoring and 
mix lightly, bake in moderate oven from one hour and 
a half to two and a half, length depending on heat of 
oven. 

— 73 — 



LADY CAKE. 

Three-fourths pound sugar. 

Half pound butter. 

One pound flour. 

Ten egg whites. 

Teaspoonful vanilla. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Rub sugar and butter together until very light, 
beat up your egg whites very stiff, add them to the but- 
ter and sugar little at a time, mixing in lightly, add 
flavor and mix, sift the flour and baking powder to- 
gether at least four times, mix in lightly (do not whip), 
put in mould and bake in very moderate oven an hour 
and a half to two hours. 

LADY CAKE. 

One pound flour. 

Three-fourths pound sugar. 

One-half pound butter. 

One cup milk ( l / 2 pint). • ' 

Whites of seven eggs. 

Teaspoonful bitter almond flavor. 

One tablespoonful baking powder. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the milk, mixing 
in thoroughly, beat the egg whites very stiff, add a lit- 
tle at a time, mixing in lightly, add flavoring, sift the 
flour and baking powder together at least four times, 



74 



grease mould and line with paper greased with unsalt- 
ed butter, bake in slow oven, one and one-half to two 
hours. When cold ice and decorate to suit yourself. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two pounds pulverized sugar. 

Two and one-half pounds flour. 

One and one-half pounds butter. 

Sixteen eggs. 

One tablespoonful vanilla. 
Rub the sugar and butter together until light and 
white, add the eggs two at a time, whipping them in 
well with a good strong egg whip, sift the baking pow- 
der and flour together three or four times, add, mixing 
in very lightly, add flavoring and mix. Fill well 
greased mould, and bake in slow oven, when cold ice 
with plain or boiled icing. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One pound butter. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Whites of twenty eggs. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

Flavoring. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the flavoring and 
mix, beat the whites very stiff, add a little at a time, 
mixing in lightly, sift the flour and baking powder to- 



75 



gether five times and mix in very light. Grease mould 
and dust with flour, knock out the surplus flour, line 
bottom with paper and grease, bake in a slow oven, 
about two hours. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Two pounds flour. 

One pound butter. 
; One pound, six ounces powdered sugar. 

Yolks of twenty eggs. \ 

One pint milk. 

One and one-half ounces baking powder. 

Two teaspoon sful orange flavoring. 
Sift the baking powder and flour together at least 
three times. Cream the butter and sugar, cream in 
the yolks adding two or three at a time, then stir in 
the milk and flavoring, then add the flour and mix 
smooth, bake in square or triangular pans, well greased 
and dusted with flour, knocking out the loose flour. 
When cool, ice with orange icing. 

RAISIN POUND CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound good firm butter. 

Ten eggs. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Teaspoonful lemon extract. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. jL 

— 76 — 



One and one-half pound sultana raisins. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one or 
two at a time, whipping them in with a good strong 
•egg whip, rub the raisins in flour, then shake off all 
the loose flour, and add., mix in thoroughly sift the flour 
and baking powder together, then add and mix in fully 
but lightly, bake in a cool oven about two hours. 
When cold ice. 

DIAMOND CAK& 

Half pound good butter, 

Twelve ounces powdered sugar. 

Whites of ten eggs. 

One cupful milk. 

One pound flour. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk and 
flavoring, and thoroughly mix, beat the Qgg whites 
very stiff and mix in lightly, sift the flour and baking 
powder together^ then mix in fully but lightly, put in 
layer cake tins that have been greased and dusted with 
flour and the surplus flour knocked out, bake in mod- 
erate oven. When cool, put together with any fill- 
wig you choose. 

PLAIN WHITE POUND CAKE. * 

One-half cup Dutter. 

One and one-half cups powdered sugar. 



77 



One cup milk. 

Three cups flour. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powaer. 

Whites of six eggs. 

One tea-spoonful flavoring. 
Rub the sugar and butter together until white and 
very light, put in the milk and flavoring and thorough- 
ly mix, sift the flour and baking powder together two 
or three times through a fine sieve, add and mix in 
lightly, beat the egg whites very stiff then mix in 
lightly but fully, prepare mould and fill, bake in a mod- 
erate oven, when cold ice, 

CHEAP WHITE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups flour. 

One cup sugar. 

One-half cup butter. 

Whites of four eggs. 

One-half cup milk. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful vanilla or almond. 
Cream the sugar and butter,, add the milk and flav- 
oring, mix in fully, beat the egg whites very stiff, then- 
mix in lightly, sift the baking powder and flour to- 
gether and mix in fully but lightly. This can be baked 
in a round or square mould, bake in moderate oven, 
When cold ice with plain or boiled icing. 

— 78 — 



HICKORY NUT CAKE. • 

One and one-half pounds flour. 

One pound sugar. 

One-half pound hickory nut kernels. 

Twelve ounces good butter. 

Whites of twelve eggs. 

Half pint sweet milk. 

Teaspoonful lemon or vanilla. 
Cream the butter and sugar, (if you have it use 
pulverized sugar it works easier), add the milk and 
■mix, add chopped nuts and flavoring and mix, sift the 
baking powder and flour together at least four times, 
mix in very lightly, beat the egg whites stiff, mix in 
•lightly but thoroughly, bake in moderate oven. 

WHITE NUT CAKE. 

One pound butter. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Whites of ten eggs. 

One cup of milk (j4 pint.) 

Four ounces finely chopped nuts. 

One tablespoonful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful lemon extract. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add milk and flavor- 
ing and mix, add nuts and mix, sift the baking powder 
rand flour together, mix in lightly, beat the whites very 

— 79 — 



stiff, mix in lightly but thoroughly, prepare your 
mould and fill, bake. When cool ice with a gooc* 
icing. 

WALNUT CAKE, 

One pound' butter. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Four ounces finely chopped walnuts. 

Ten eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Almond flavoring. 
Rub the butter and sugar together until light and 
white, whip in the eggs adding two at a time r 
but be sure and whip them light, add the chopped nuts 
and flavoring and mix, sift the baking powder and 
flour together, add and mix in lightly but thoroughly,, 
bake in shallow square pan or regular pound cake 
mould, ice with plain icing. 

*^ 
LAYER CAKES. 



DEVILS FOOD, 

One pound brown sugar. 
One and one-half pounds flour. 
Four eggs. 

Four ounces good butter. 
Half pint sweet milk. 

— 80 — 



Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Teaspoonful vanilla. 

Four ounces grated chocolate. 
Cream half the sugar and butter, cream in thfc 
eggs one at a time, put vanilla in half the milk and add 
a little at a time mixing in thoroughly. Then take the 
grated chocolate, balance of the sugar and the milk, 
put in pan and put on the stove to get warm, stir so the 
ingredients will get thoroughly mixed, then mix it in 
with the above, bake in two or three layers and put to- 
gether with a good icing. 

DEVILS FOOD. 

Eight ounces bakers chocolate. 

Two pounds powdered sugar. 

One and one-half pint sweet milk. 

Half pound good butter. 

Six eggs. 

Three pounds, four ounces flour. 

Three light tablespoonsful baking powder. 
Take the chocolate and put in half pint milk and 
set on stove until dissolved, cream the butter, sugar 
and eggs, then add the chocolate and milk, letting it 
cool first, add the rest of the milk and thoroughly mix, 
add the flour with the baking powder sifted in it, mix 
fully but lightly, divide into two layers, and bake when 
cool ice. 

— 81 — 



] BIRTHDAY LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar. 

Three-fourths cup butter. 

Eight eggs. 

Half cup milk. 

Four cups flour. I "{', 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
- :. Teaspoonful alspice. : 

* Teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Teaspoonful ground cloves. 

Four ounces raisins. 

Four ounces citron cut fine. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs two at 
a time, whipping them in well, add the milk and mix, 
mix in the flour fully but lightly, divide this cake 
dough into two equal parts, put one part into another 
dish, add to one-half the alspice, cinnamon, cloves, 
raisins and citron, mix in lightly but thoroughly, make 
two layers of the dark and two layers of the other, ana 
bake in a moderate oven. When cool put together 
with a good icing, putting them one layer of dark then 
a layer of light, then a layer of dark, putting the last 
layer of light on top, then ice the top and side. 

KING LAYER CAKE. 

One and a half pounds sugar. 

Twelve ounces butter. / \. : 

One pint milk. 

— 82 — 



Two pounds flour. , 

Whites of twelve eggs. 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful flavoring. 
Rub the butter and sugar until it is very light, beat 
the egg whites a little, then add, a little at a time 
creaming them in, add the milk a little at a time, mix- 
ing in well, add the flavoring and mix, sift the baking 
powder and sugar together, two to five times and mix 
in fully but lightly, bake in layers. These layers can 
be put together with any icing or filling in this book. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

.wo cups sugar. 

Half cup butter. 

One cup sweet milk. 

Five egg whites. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Two cupsful flour. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the cup milk ana 
the vanilla and mix in thoroughly sift the baking pow- 
der and flour together, add and mix in thoroughly, 
beat the egg whites very stiff and mix in fully but 
lightly, bake in layer cake tins that have been properly 
prepared, when cool put together with a chocolate fill- 
ing, set in the warmer a few minutes to harden. 



PRINCESS LAYER CAKE, 

One pound powdered sugar. 

One pound butter. 

One pound, two ounces flour. 

Whites of sixteen eggs. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

One and half teaspoonful flavor. 
Cream the butter and sugar, beat the egg whites 
to a very stiff froth, add a few at a time, and mix in 
fully, then sift the baking powder and flour together, 
at least four times, mix in very lightly but thoroughly, 
mix in vanilla fully but lightly, bake in layer cake 
tins in a moderate oven, when cold put together with 
a good icing or filling. 

SUNDAY LAYER CAKE. 

Three-fourths pound sugar. 

Half pound butter. 

\Y kites of ten eggs. 

Half pint milk. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the butter and sugar, put the vanilla in the 
milk and mix in a little at a time, mixing fully, sift the 
baking powder and the flour together four times, mix 
in lightly. Whip the eggs up very stiff, mix in lightly 
but fully, bake in layer cake tins in a moderate oven, 
when cold put together with a good filling or icing. 

— 84 — 



COCOANUT LAYER CAKE. 

Three-fourths pound powdered sugar. 

Eight ounces butter. 

Whites ten eggs. 

Half pint milk. 

One pound flour. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
Cream sugar and butter, beat egg whites and add, 
add milk and flavoring, then add flour with the baking 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
powder sifted in it, bake in layer cake tins. When 
cold put together as follows : Make a good icing, put 
on a thin coat, sprinkle with grated cocoanut, then ice 
the bottom of the next layer and set it on the cocoanut, 
repeat until all or fixed this way, then ice top and side 
and sprinkle with cocoanut. 

MIXED LAYER CAKE. 

Three cupsful powdered sugar. 
One cupful of butter. 
One cupful of milk. 
Whites of five eggs. 
Yolks of five eggs. 
Four cups flour. 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 
One or two teaspoonsful flavoring. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the milk and flav- 
oring, mixing in thoroughly, sift the baking powder 

— 85 — 



and flour together and mix in lightly. Now divide the 
dough into two equal parts, beat the egg whites very 
stiff and mix in to one part lightly, beat the yolks well 
and mix into the other part, bake in layer cake tins. 
When cold put together with any icing or filling you 
wish. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar. 

One cup good butter. 

Five eggs. 

One cup milk. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 

Three and one-half cupsful flour. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg& 
one at a time and cream in, add the milk and flavoring,, 
mixing in fully, sift the baking powder and flour to- 
gether and mix in lightly but thoroughly, bake in 
square pans that have been well greased and dusted 
with flour, and the loose flour knocked out. Whe« 
cold put together with the following filling: 

Filling. 

Whites of two eggs. 
One cup powdered sugar. 
One Orange. 
Grate the orange rind and all, take out the seeds if 
there are any, put the sugar in a pan add two table- 

— 86 — 



spoonsful water and let boil until it threads from the 
spoon, beat the eggs up very stiff, pour the boiled 
sugar into them mixing all the time, then put in the 
grated orange a little at a time whipping it in, spread 

Three eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
between and on top the layers. 

JELLY LAYER CAKE. 

Half cupful of butter. 

One and one-half cupful sugar. 

Two cupsful flour. 

Half cup milk. 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Rub butter and sugar together until light, add tnc 
eggs one at a time and cream in, add the milk and flav- 
oring, mix in, sift the baking powder and flour to- 
gether, bake in layer cake tins in a moderate oven 
When cold put together with a good jelly. 

CREAM LAYER CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs. 

One and one-half cupsful sugar. 

One cup sweet cream or half cupful butter and 

half cupful of milk. 
Two cupsful flour. 
Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
r One teaspoonful vanilla. . k J 

— 87 — 



Rub the cream or butter and sugar until light, add 

ihe other ingredients and mix in fully but lightly, bake 

in layers and when cold put together, with one cup 

cream whipped to a froth sweetened and flavored to- 

taste. This cake should be used at once as it will not 
keep long. The cream filling will sour, but when used 
immediately it makes a fine cake. 

YELLOW LAYER. 

One and one-half pounds flour. 

One pound sugar. 

Half pound butter. 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Eight eggs. 

Three-fourths pint milk. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
Rub the butter and sugar together until white, 
and very light, beat the eggs and add little at a time, 
mixing in thoroughly, add flavoring and mix, sift the 
baking powder and flour together and add, mixing in 
fully but lightly, bake in layer cake tins and put to- 
gether with any icing or filling you may choose. 

PLAIN LAYER. 

One pound, two ounces flour. 
Twelve ounces sugar. 
Half pound butter. 
Half pint milk. 
Five eggs. 

— 88 — 



Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful extract. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the eggs one at a 
time and cream in, add the milk and flavoring little at a 
time, mixing in fully, sift the baking powder and flour 
together, two or three times, then add mixing in light- 
ly, bake in layers in a moderate oven, when cold put 
together with plain icing. 

CHEAP PLAIN LAYER CAKE. 

One cupful sugar. 

Four eggs. 

Half cup butter. 

One and one-half cupsful flour. 

Half cup milk. 

One and one-half teaspoonsful baking powd*=i. 

One teaspoonful flavoring. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the eggs one at a 
time, creaming in, add the milk and flavoring mixing 
in well, sift the flour and baking powder together and 
stir in lightly but fully, bake in regular layer cake tins, 
in moderate oven. When cold put together with 
plain icing. 

CHEAP LAYER. 

Half pound butter. 

Twelve ounces sugar. 

Whites of five eggs. 

Three-fourths pint milk. 

— 89 — 



One pound flour. " £* 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. r * 

One teaspoonful flavoring. 
Rub the sugar and butter together until very lights 
add the milk and flavoring a little at a time, mixing 
in thoroughly,, beat the whites stiff and add, mixing in 
lightly but fully, sift the baking powder and flour to- 
gether, add mixing in lightly, bake m layers and put 
together with any of the icings or fillings. 

FROSTINGS, ICINGS AND FILLINGS. 

The eggs should always be cold and the platter 
on which they are beaten should be cold, 

HOW TO MAKE ICING. 

Break the eggs then put a handful sugar on them, 
then commence beating, then keep adding a little 
sugar at a time until all is whipped in, this makes a 
nice smooth icing, 

HOW TO ICE CAKE. 

Take a long broad knife to spread it with, and put 
on two coats, let the first be put on thin and only to 
fill up the holes and rough places, let this harden a 
little then put on the last coat, wet the knife occasion- 
ally to make it smooth. 

If the icing is too soft and wants to run whip in 
more sugar. 



90 



A little lemon juice, salt, soda, or tartaric acid 
added to eggs before commencing to beat, will make 
them beat easier and some whiter. 

If yon wish to ornament save out part of the icing 
and when the icing on the cake is hard you can color 
it to suit yourself and ice as you desire 

Always set the cake after icing in the warmer or 
in front of the oven with the door open as soon as iced 
this will dry the icing. 

WATER ICING. 

XXXX confectioner's sugar is the best sugar for 
icing, it cost a little more but is cheaper in the long 
run, as it takes up more sugar. 

Plain water icing is made by simply mixing sift- 
ed powdered sugar with col-d water. Goods iced with 
this icing should be set in the oven a few seconds to 
dry. 

Boiled water icing is made by using boiling water 
in place of cold. Goods Iced with this icing need not 
be returned to the oven. 

PLAIN ICING. 

Take the whites of two eggs and one cup sugar, 
and whip thoroughly, if flavoring is wanted add be- 
fore commencing to beat. 

PLAIN ICING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, add one 
cup of sugar and whip into the eggs, add sugar little 
at a time, 

— 91 — 



BOILED ICING. 

Wet one cupful of sugar with a little water, and 
let boil until it threads or drops from a spoon or gets 
hard in water, beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, 
pour the sugar into the eggs, whipping all the time.. 
If flavoring is wanted add to taste. 

FRESH FRUIT FILLING. 

Wash and pick over the fruit, then wash, add 
enough powdered sugar to sweeten, spread between 
the layers, ice the top. 

PEACH CREAM FILLING. 

Take good ripe peaches, peel and cut in thin slices 
lay on the cake and pour over the peaches, sweet 
cream whipped to a froth and sweetened with pow- 
dered sugar. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Grate one large or two small oranges, beat the 
white of one egg with one cup powdered sugar added,, 
then add the grated orange and whip in, spread be- 
tween the layers. 

FIG FILLING. 

To two cups finely chopped figs take one cup sugar, 
add a little water and set on the fire and let boil until 
the syrup threads from the spoon, let set until almost 
cool, then spread between the layers. 



92 



FIG FILLING. 

Take two cups finely chopped figs and one cup 
sugar and set on the fire and boil until the syrup 
threads from the spoon, then beat the whites of two 
eggs very stiff, pour the figs into the eggs, stirring all 
the time, spread between the layers. 
APPLE FILLING. 
Peel and slice some good cooking apples, put 
them on the fire with sugar enough to sweeten, when 
soft mash and run through a fine sieve, add a small 
piece of butter and the juice of one lemon or one tea- 
spoonful lemon extract, when cold spread between the 
layers. 

BANANA FILLING. 
Take good ripe bananas that are free from rotten 
and black places and mash up fine, mix in a little 
sweet cream and enough powdered sugar to sweeten, 
nut between the layers. 

NUT FILLING. 
One cupful sugar. 
Whites of two eggs. 
One cup chopped nuts. 
Put the sugar in a pan add two teaspoonsful 
water, let boil until it threads from the spoon, beat the 
whites stiff, pour the boiled sugar into the eggs stirr- 
ing all the time, then stir the nuts in adding them a 
little at a time and whipping them in. 



93 



V CREAM FILLING. 

Whip one cup good sweet cream to a froth, add 
sugar to sweeten and flavor to taste. 

CHOCOLATE ICING OR FILLING. 

One cup milk. 

One cup grated chocolate. 

One and a half cups pulverized sugar. 

Two eggs. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 
Put the milk in a pan and set on the stove and let 
come to a boil, then put the grated chocolate in, when 
dissolved add the sugar, beat the eggs a little and add 
stirring fast, take from the stove and add vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE ICING OR FILLING. 

Half cup milk. 

One cup powdered sugar. 

Four ounces bakers chocolate. 

One egg, or the whites of two. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 
Grate the chocolate and put it in the milk and set 
on the stove, when thoroughly dissolved add the sugar 
and let boil until it ropes off the spoon, take from the 
fire and whip in the egg which has previously been 
beaten, then add the vanilla, let cool a little, it will then 
be ready for use. 

— 94 — 



-- CHOCOLATE ICING, - 

One and one-half cups sugar. 
Half cup milk. 
Half cake chocolate. 
Half teaspoon vanilla. 
Grate the chocolate and put in the milk when thor- 
oughly dissolved, add the sugar, let boil until it ropes 
from the spoon, take from the fire and add the vanilla. 

LEMON ICING. 

Grate one lemon rind and all taking out the seeds. 
Take one cup of sugar, add a little water and set on 
fire and let boil until it ropes or drops from the spoon, 
beat the white of one egg stiff, pour in the sugar, beat- 
ing all the time, then beat in the grated lemon. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. 

One-fourth cup milk. , . 

One-fourth pound marshmallows. 

Two tablespoonsful hot water. "\ 

Half teaspoonful vanilla. 
Put the hot water on the sugar and set on the fire 
and let boil until it drops or threads from the spoon, 
add the milk, then the marshmallows, stirring them 
until dissolved, let boil until it thickens a little, take 
from the fire then, add the vanilla, let cool a little then 
put between the layers and on top and sides. 



95 



CARAMEL FILLING. 

Two cups brown sugar. 

Tablespoonful butter. 
One cup cream. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 

Dampen the sugar with a little water and set on 

the fire and let boil a minute, then stir in the butter, 

then the cream, let boil until it gets hard, when 

dropped in water, then remove from the fire and put 

in the vanilla, stirring it in. Let cool a little, it will 

then be ready to put between the layers, on top and 

side, set in the warmer or front part of the stove a few 

minutes to dry. 



— 96 



SPONGE CAKE, SHEET CAKE, LADY FING- 
ERS, JELLY ROLL, STRAWBERRY SHORT 
CAKE, CREAM PUFFS, AND CRUL- 
LERS. 
-^ 
SPONGE CAKE. 
Nine eggs. ' . : 

Half pound powdered sugar. 
Twelve ounces flour. 
Four ounces cornstarch. 
Lemon or vanilla flavoring. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, then put in bowl and 
cream in the sugar a little at a time, then beat the tgg 
whites very stiff and add a few at a time, mixing in 
lightly but thoroughly, mix in the flavoring, then mix 
in the flour fully but lightly. Bake slowly and well in 
r>aper lined tin, in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar. j j 

Thirteen eggs. 

One pound, two ounces flour. 

Lemon flavoring. 
Make the sugar luke warm, add the eggs, one or 
two at a time and wisk until they assume a very light 
yellow color, then add the flavoring beat in with a few 
turns of the wisk, clean the side of the pan and wisk 
in then clean the wisk, add the flour, sifting it in slow- 
ly and mixing it in fully but lightly, put in properly 

— 97 — 



prepared mould and bake in moderate oven. 

Note. The colder the sponge is at time of adding 
flour, the better the cake will be. 

SHEET CAKE. 

One pound unwashed butter. 

One pound, two ounces sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One pint milk. 

Two pounds flour. 

Two tablespoonsful baking powder. 

Lemon, almond or vanilla flavor. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs 
one at a time, and cream in, then add the milk and mix, 
then the flavoring, sift the baking powder and the flour 
together and mix in, grease pan and dust with flour, 
knock out the loose, then fill, spread about one-half to 
one inch thick on a level dust with powdered sugar 
and bake. 

NUT SHEET CAKE. 

Half pound butter. 

Twelve ounces sugar. 

One and one-fourth cups milk. 

Three eggs. 

One and one-fourth pounds flour. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful almond. 

Chopped nuts to suit. 
Cream the butter and sugar, cream in the eggs 



93 



one at a time, add the milk and flavoring and mix in, 
sift the baking powder and flour together and put in 
also, put in the nuts and mix all in lightly but fully, 
put in pan and spread about an inch thick on the level, 
you can dust with sugar if you like, bake in medium 
hot oven. 

FRUIT SHEET CAKE. 

Half pound butter. 

Four eggs. 

One and one-half pounds flour. 

One and one-half cups milk. 

One pound sugar. 

Three teasponsful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful almond. 

Chopped raisins, currants or figs or all to suit. 
Cream sugar and butter, cream in eggs one at a 
time, mix in milk and flavoring, put in flour with bak- 
ing powder sifted in it, add fruit and mix in lightly but 
thoroughly, bake in sheet pan in moderately hot oven. 
If you wish you can put whole raisins on top, or 
sprinkle with sugar, or leave them off, just as you like. 
LADY FINGERS. 

One pound powdered sugar. 
One pound flour. 
Fifteen eggs. 
Lemon flavor. 
Beat the yolks and whites separately, cream the 
sugar and egg yolks, adding the yolks a little at a 

L OF & ^—99 — 



time, add flavoring, then add the beaten whites, mix- 
ing in very lightly, then add the flour mix in very light- 
ly but fully. Make a paper funnel with half inch open- 
ing and fill with the dough, run onto paper, in the 
shape of a finger, dust with sugar and set on another 
pan turned upside down, lady fingers require heat 
from the top, when baked let cool, then turn the paper 
over with the cakes stuck to it and wet with water 
turn back and lift the fingers off, stick two together. 
LADY FINGERS. 

One pound powdered sugar. 

Whites of twelve eggs. 

Yolks of six eggs. : 

Two teaspoonsful lemon extract. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 
Beat the yolks, then cream the sugar and yolks to- 
gether, add the yolks to the sugar, little by little until 
all in, add the flavoring, and mix, sift the baking pow- 
der with one cup of flour, and mix in just a little, beat 
the egg whites very stiff, mix in very lightly but fully, 
then add enough more flour to make a soft dough (make 
dough just as soft as you can handle it) roll out to 
about half inch thick and cut with lady finger cutter, 
set in pan lined with brown paper, dampen tops with 
water and sprinkle with powdered sugar, bake in mod- 
erate oven, when cold turn paper over and wet bottom 
side of cakes, turn back, pull cakes off and stick two 
together. 

— 100 — 



JELLY ROLL. - 

Twelve eggs. 
One pound sugar. 
One pound, two ounces flour. 
One ounce baking powder. 
Vanilla flavor. 
Whip the sugar and eggs together until very light, 
'then stir in flour, baking powder and flavoring, bake in 
thin sheet and spread with jelly and roll up. 
JELLY ROLL. 
Seven eggs. 
Twelve ounces sugar. 
Twelve ounces flour. 
One teaspoonful baking powder. 
Flavor to suit, 
froceed same as for ordinary jelly roll. 
JELLY ROLL. 
Twelve ounces powdered sugar. 
« One pound flour. 

Nine eggs. ? 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
< . Lemon flavor. 

Proceed same as for ordinary jelly roll. 

JELLY ROLL. 

One pound sugar. 

Nine ounces butter. 

One dozen eggs. <„^ 

— 101 — 



One pound flour. 

Two or three teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Lemon flavoring. 
Rub the butter and sugar well, beat the eggs and 
mix in, then mix in the flavoring and the flour and 
baking powder, sifted together, spread with jelly and 
roll up while hot. 

JELLY ROLL. 

One and one-fourth cupsful flour. 

Half cupful of milk. 

Two eggs. 

One cupful of sugar. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

One half cupful butter. 
Cream the sugar, butter and eggs, add the milk 
and mix, sift the baking powder and flour together and 
mix in, bake in a long pan, don't let it be very thick. 
When baked turn out on clean cloth, spread with jelly 
or jam, roll up in cloth and let stay until cold, slice 
across the end of the roll. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One pound butter. 

One pound, four ounces flour. 

Six eggs. 

Half pint milk. 

Half pound butter 

Two to three teaspoonsful baking powder, 

— I0£ — 



Strawberry flavor. 
Rub the sugar and butter together, add the eggs 
one at a time and rub in, stir in the milk and flavoring, 
then sift the baking powder and flour together and mix 
in, bake in layer cake tins, then take strawberries and 
cover a layer sprinkle sugar over them and put on an- 
other layer and repeat the operation and the cake is 
•ready to serve. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. No. 2. 

One pound flour. 

Four ounces butter or lard. 

One tablespoonful sugar. 

Pinch salt. 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder. 
"Water or milk enough to make a medium stiff 
dough, mix same as the tea biscuit, then proceed same 
as other short cake, only you split the layer and put 
berries between and on top. 

CREAM PUFFS. 
Take one pint of water and half cupful milk, mix 
together, add eight ounces lard and set on the fire and 
let come to a boil, let boil two minutes. But be sure 
it boils, then stir into it one pound cake flour, stir in 
until all is loosened from the pan and dry, then remove 
from the fire, stir in twelve eggs whipping them in two 
at a time, add a little baking powder. Bake on pans 
washed with egg, bake rapid in a medium hot oven. 
Cut open and fill with custard or whipped cream, 

— 103 — 



CRULLERS OR FRIED CAKES. 

Two pounds, two ounces flour. 

Half pound sugar. • 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder^ 

Four ounces butter. 

Three eggs. 

One pint milk. 

Flavor with cinnamon, mace or nutmeg. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, mix in the 
eggs, then stir in the milk and flavoring, then mix im 
the flour, mixing thoroughly. 

Finish the same as any other cruller. 

SNAPS AND COOKIES. 



VANILLA WAFERS. 

Ten ounces sugar. 

One pound butter. 

One pint sweet milk. 

Four eggs. 

One pound flour. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Two teaspoonsful vanilla. 
Rub butter and sugar to a cream, then rub in eggs- 
.ie at a time, add milk and flavoring and mix in, there 
sift the baking powder and flour together and mix **• 
proceed as for other wafers. 

— 104 — 



LEMON SNAPS. J 

One pound powdered sugar. 
Three eggs. 
One pound flour. 
Three ounces butter. 
Teaspoonful baking powder. 
Lemon. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, add eggs and 
cream in, add lemon and mix, then sift the baking pow- 
der in the flour and mix in well, roll out in round rope 
like and cut off in little pieces the size of walnuts, place 
on greased pans about three inches apart and flatten 
with the hands, bake in a cool oven. 
LEMON SNAPS. 

One pound flour. 
Three eggs. 
Four ounces butter. 
Fourteen ounces powdered sugar. 
One teaspoonful baking powder. 
Two teaspoonsful lemon. 
Cream the butter, sugar and eggs, sift the baking 
powder in the flour and mix in fully but lightly, roll 
out thin and cut with small cutter, set in well greased 
pans about three inches apart, brush all loose flour off 
the top, bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON SNAPS. 
One pound granulated sugar. 
Half pound butter. 
One pound, four ounces flour. 
One-fourth ounce ammonia. 
Three eggs, 

— 1C5 — 



Three eggs. 
Lemon flavor. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one at a 
time and cream in, dissolve the ammonia in just as little 
water as possible and add mix well, add the flavoring, 
then mix in the flour, mixing fully but lightly, roll out 
thin and cut with round cutter set three inches apart 
and bake in a cool oven. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

Two cups granulated sugar. 

Four cups flour. 

Half cup butter. 

Three eggs. 

Half teaspoonful amonia. 

Lemon flavor. 
Rub the sugar and butter to a cream, add the eggs 
one at a time and cream them in, dissolve the ammonia 
in a little water and add, then add the flavoring, mixing 
in well, then mix in the flour, mixing in fully but light- 
ly, roll out thin and cut with small, round, cutter, place 
on pans two inches apart, bake in very moderate oven. 

DROP CAKES. 

Ten ounces sugar. 
Six ounces butter and lard mixed. 
Four eggs. 
Half pint milk. 
One pound flour. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
One teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the sugar and butter, add the eggs one at a 
time and cream in, mix in milk and flavoring, then sift 

— 106 — 



the baking powder in the flour and mix in fully but 
lightly. This dough should be dropped from a spoon, 
or canvas bag made for this purpose, the heat while 
baking makes them run, bake in a moderate oven. 
TEA CAKES. 
Four eggs. 

One cup butter or lard. 
Two and one-half cupsful sugar. 
One cupful milk. 

Two and one-half teaspoonsful baking powder. 
One teaspoonful almond extract. 
Rub to a cream the butter, eggs and sugar, then 
add the milk, mix in fully, add the flavoring, sift the 
baking powder in a little flour and add, then add 
enough more flour to make a medium stiff dough, roll 
out, cut with round cutter and set apart in pans so 
they will not stick together. Brush the loose flour off 
the top and bake in moderate oven. 
COOKIES. 
One cup butter. 
Three-fourths cup lard. 
Two cupsful sugar. 
One cupful sour milk. 
One level teaspoonful soda. 
Two eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful flavoring. 
Rub the sugar, butter and lard to a cream, dissolve 
the soda in the sour milk and mix in thoroughly, beat 
the eggs and add, add flavoring and mix in, then add 
enough flour to make a medium stiff dough, roll out 
with rolling pin and cut with round cutter, brush the 
surplus flour off and bake. 

— 107 — 



Note. Always set cookies apart, giving them 
room to run while baking. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One pound sugar. 

Half pound lard. 

Two eggs. 

One-half pint milk. 

Three tablespoonsful water. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

For flavoring you can use any of the following; 
Lemon, vanilla, almond, strawberry, banana, 
mace, nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Two pounds, four ounces sugar. 
Rub together the sugar, lard and eggs, add the 
milk, water and flavoring, and mix, sift the baking 
powder in the flour and mix in, roll out when you have 
it almost thin enough, brush the flour off and sprinkle 
with sugar, then roll to thinness desired, cut out and 
bake. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

Half cup milk. 

Half cupful butter. 

Half cupful lard. 

One cupful of sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 

One-half cup grated chocolate. 
Cream the lard, butter and sugar, then add the 
eggs and cream in, add the milk and mix in thorough- 
ly, add the vanilla and grated chocolate and mix in 

— 108 — 



fully, then add enough flour to make a medium stiff 
dough, roll out thin and cut with round cutter, bake in 
moderate oven. If you will wash the tops with milk 
before baking, they will be nicer. 

RAISIN COOKIES. 

Four cups flour. 

One and one-half cups butter. 

One cup sugar. 

Six eggs. 

Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 

One teaspoonful vanilla. 

One cup seedless or sultana raisins. 
Rub together the sugar a,nd butter until light, add 
the eggs two at a time, creaming them in, add flavor- 
ing and mix, sift the baking powder and flour together, 
rub the raisins in the flour, then add and mix in thor- 
oughly but lightly, finish same as other cookies. You 
can leave the raisins out, and wash top with milk and 
stick the raisins on top. 

COCOANUT COOKIES, 

One and one-half cups sugar. 

Three-fourths cupful butter. 

Three eggs. 

One and one-half cupsful milk. 

Four teaspoonsful baking powder. 

Five cups flour. 

Flavoring. 

Rub the sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs and 

^cream in, add the milk and flavoring and mix in, sift 

the baking powder and flour together and mix in fully 

but lightly, finish same as other cookies, when cold 

— 109 — 



cover with icing and sprinkle with grated cocoanut 
while icing is soft, return to oven a few seconds to 
harden the icing. 

CUP CAKES. 

Two cups sugar. 

One cup butter. 

Six eggs. 

Eight cups flour. 

One and one-half cups milk. 

One and one-half tablespoonsful baking pow- 
der. 

Flavor with lemon or almond. 

Cream the butter, and sugar, then cream in the 
eggs, then add the milk and flavoring, mix well, then 
add the flour and finish mixing, if too stiff add milk to 
make a medium slack mass, bake in cup cake tins, in 
a good solid heat, sprinkle the top with currants be- 
fore baking. 

GINGER GOODS. 

FRUIT GINGER BREAD. 

One level teaspoonful soda. 
One cup thick sour cream. 
Half cup molasses. 
One cup brown sugar. 
One tablespoonful allspice. 
One tablespoonful ginger. 
Three and a half cup flour. 
Twelve ounces raisins. 
Four ounces currants. 

— 110 — 



Dissolve the soda in two tablespoonsful hot water, 
pour into the sour cream and stir for a little while, 
now add the molasses and mix in thoroughly, then add 
the sugar, allspice and ginger and mix fully, then mix 
in the flour, then the raisins and currants, turn this into 
a well greased pan dusted with flour and the loose flour 
knocked out, bake one and one-half hours. 

ROYAL GINGER CAKE. 

Three-fourths pound butter. 

Three-fourths pound sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One pound flour. 

Teaspoonful ground ginger. 

Teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

Teaspoonful lemon flavoring. 

One cup milk. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 
Cream the butter, sugar, eggs, ginger, cinnamon 
and flour together, add the milk and mix it in, then 
add the flour with the baking powder sifted in it and 
mix fully but ligiitly, if baked as loaf cake, dust top 
with sugar and sprinkle with water, or if baked in 
layers put together with icing. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One-half pound butter. 

Eight ounces brown sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One ounce ground ginger. 

One pint molasses. 

One pint milk. 

Two to three teaspoonsful soda, J 

— Ill — 



Two and one-half pounds Hour. 
Cream the butter, sugar, eggs and ginger, add the 
molasses and mix in thoroughly, dissolve the soda in 
the milk and add, mixing fully, add the flour, mixing 
in lightly but thoroughly, put in well greased pan and 
bake in cool oven, 

GINGER BREAD. 

One pint molasses. 

Half pound sugar. 

Four ounces lard or butter. 

One pint water. 

One ounce soda. 

Two and one-half pounds of flour. 

Tablespoonful ground ginger. 

Teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 
Rub together the molasses, sugar, lard or butter, 
ginger and cinnamon until well mixed, add the water 
with soda, dissolved in it, mix thoroughly, then add the 
flour mixing in fully but lightly. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Two teaspoonsful ground ginger. 
One teaspoonful ground spices. 
One pint molasses. 
One pint water. 
Six ounces butter or lard. 
Four ounces sugar. 
One pound twelve ounces flour. 
One to one and a half teaspoonful soda. 
Two eggs. 
Dissolve the soda in a small part of the water, mix 
the molasses, butter or lard and sugar all together, 

- 112 — 



thoroughly making them light, add the balance of the 
water, ginger and spice and mix, then add the soda and 
mix, now mix in the flour lightly but fully, put in well 
greased pan and bake in a very moderate oven. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cup molasses. 

Two eggs. 

One teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

One teaspoonful almond flavoring. 

Two teaspoonsful ginger. 

Four ounces butter. 

One teaspoonful soda. 
Cream the molasses, butter and eggs until they 
assume a cream color, then add the cinnamon, ginger 
and flavoring, and mix in well, add enough sifted flour 
to form an easy working dough. Fill into a well 
greased pan, dust the top with sugar and sprinkle with 
water, then bake in moderate oven. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cup molasses. 

Half cup water. 

Piece butter the size of an egg. 

Two and one-half cups flour. 

One egg. } 

One or two teaspoonsful ginger. 

One teaspoonful soda. 
Cream the butter, egg and molasses, add the gin- 
ger and mix in, then add the water with the soda dis- 
solved in it, mix in, then mix in the flour, bake in a 
moderate oven. 



113 



GINGER COOKIES. 

Four ounces butter or lard. 

One cup milk. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses. 

Half cup brown sugar. 

One ounce soda. 

One teaspoonful cinnamon. 

One tablespoon ground ginger. 

Four cups flour. 

Two eggs. 

Tablespoonful salt. 
Cream the butter, sugar and eggs, add the mo- 
lasses and mix, then add the milk with the soda, dis- 
solved in it, then add the cinnamon and ginger mixing 
in thoroughly, then mix in the flour, make a medium 
stiff dough, roll out and cut with round cutter, wash 
with milk or water, and bake. These cakes should be 
set a little apart. , 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Half cup sugar. 

One cup molasses. 

Half cup butter. 

Two eggs. 

One cup milk. . : 

One tablespoonful ground ginger. 

One teaspoonful cinnamon. _ j 



114 



One teaspoonful almond extract. 

One teaspoonful soda. 
Cream the sugar, butter, eggs, ginger and cinna- 
mon, then add the molasses, mixing in well, then add 
the milk with the soda dissolved in it, then the flavor- 
ing and flour, mixing in fully but lightly, roll out and 
cut with round cutter and bake in cool oven. Set the 
cookies far enough apart so they won't run together. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Eight ounces sugar. 

Six ounces lard. 

Half cup water. 

Two pounds, two ounces flour. 

One pint of molasses. 

One teaspoonful alspice. 

Two teaspoonsful ground ginger. 

Two teaspoonsful soda. 
Cream the sugar, lard and molasses, add the al- 
spice and ginger and rub in, then add the water with 
the soda dissolved in it, then add the flour working in 
fully, roll out thin and cut with a small round cutter, 
and wash tops with water before baking, bake in a 
moderate oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Eight ounces lard. 

Eight ounces sugar. 

One cup molasses. ,j 



115 



One-half cup water. 

Two pounds, four ounces flour. 
i One ounce soda. 

One ounce ginger. 
Cream the molasses, sugar and lard, add the 
water with the soda dissolved in it, and mix well, mix 
in the ginger then mix in the flour, work well, roll out 
thin and cut with small cutter, wash pans with water, 
and wash snaps on top with water before baking. 



— 116 — 



CORN MIXTURE. 

Pop your corn and sieve it with a sifter that has 
holes large enough to let the unpoped corn fall through. 
Then place in your kettle one pound of sugar, put on 
just enough water to start it to boiling, let boil a little 
while then add one cupful molasses, let boil until it 
ropes from a spoon or gets hard when dropped in 
water, then take from the fire and add tablespoonful 
butter, then stir in your poped corn and a little salt, 
stir in all the popcorn you can, then set your kettle on 
fire to warm slightly, turn out on slab and shape into 
squares or balls just as you like. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 
Soak the almonds in warm water, then take the 
skin off, set in a warm place and let thoroughly dry. 
Put about half cup butter in a sauce pan and set on 
fire, when hot put in about one pound of almonds and 
stir them until a light brown color, then take them out 
and allow the butter to drain off, then mix them in dry 
salt, then sift off the excess salt and set away to cool 
and dry. 

PEANUT CANDY. 
Take two pounds of brown sugar and put in pan 
add just a little water, set on fire and let come to a boil, 
then add one pound peanuts, let cook until when you 

— 117 — 



drop some of it in cold water you can chew it without 
sticking to your mouth, then stir in a little soda. But 
be sure there are no lumps in the soda. Pour into 
greased plates and allow to cool, 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Take two cups brown sugar and put in pan, add a 
little water and set on the stove where it is not very 
hot, until the sugar is dissolved, then push to a hot 
place and let come to a boil, add a little piece of butter 
and one cupful peanuts, let boil until it ropes from the 
spoon, then take from the fire and whip it as fast as 
you can and until it is almost cold, then put in buttered 
plates and let cool. 

NUT CANDY. 

Put two cups of brown sugar in a sauce pan, add a 
little water and set on the fire and let come to a boil, 
add a small piece of butter and let cook until it gets 
hard when you drop a little in cold water, then add 
one teaspoonful vanilla and the nuts remove from the 
fire and whip until it begins to get cold, then put into 
greased plates and set aside to cool. 

VANILLA SUGAR CANDY. 

Put two cups granulated sugar and half cup vine- 
gar in sauce pan and let cook. You must be careful 
and cook it just right, to test it drop a little in a half 
cup cold water from time to time when it gets hard 
and will just snap into without stringing, it is done. 
Take from the fire and add two teaspoonsful vanilla, 
pour into buttered plates and let cool just a little, then 
take it out of the plates and pull it until white and 
cold. 

— 118 — 



MISCELLANEOUS. 
BAKING POWDER. 



The following is a- good recipe. If you wish to 
make your own, however, it is just about as cheap to 
buy a good brand. 

One pound cream of tartar. 

One and one-half pound carbonate of soda. 

Eight ounces tartaric acid. 

Four ounces corn starch. 
Put each one in a warm place and let dry thor- 
oughly, then sift through a fine sieve several times, 
this mixes them thoroughly, put in cans and keep in 
a dry place. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Liquid Measure. 
Hy 2 Teaspoonsful make One Tablespoonful. 
4 Tablespoonsful make one WineglassfuL 
2 Wineglassfuls make One Gill. 
2 Gills make One Teacupful. 
2 Teacupsful make One Pint. 
2 Pints make One Quart. 
4 Quarts make One Gallon. 

— 119 — 



Dry Measure. 

4 Teaspoonsful salt make One Ounce. 

iy 2 Tablespoonful Gran. Sugar make One Ounce. 

2 Tablespoonsful Flour make One Ounce. 
Piece butter size of a walnut make One Ounce. 

1 Pint Wheat Flour make Nine Ounces. 

1 Pint Cornmeal make Eleven Ounces. 

1 Pint Loaf Sugar make Ten Ounces. 

1 Pint Brown Sugar make Twelve Ounces. 

1 Pint Granulated Sugar make One Pound. 
10 Eggs, make One Pound. 
21 Egg Whites make One Pound. 




NOTE. 

The following pages are left blank for your coti-* 
venience, when you get a good recipe you wish to 
preserve, write it on one of them, then you will always 
know where to find it. 

— 120 — 



INDEX. 

BREAD STUFFS. 

Biscuits, Tea 21 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 22 

Biscuits, Beaten 24 

Biscuits, Soda 22 

Biscuits, Sweet 24 

Bread with Home Made Yeast 14 

Bread with Dry Hop Yeast 15 

Bread with Compressed Yeast 15 

Bread, Boston Brown 23 

Bread, Graham 16 

Bread, Rye 16 

Bread, Salt Rising 17 

Bread, Whole Wheat 16 

Coffee Cake 21 

Corn Muffins 25 

Doughnuts with Yeast 21 

Doughnuts with Baking Powder 26 

Doughnuts, No. 2 26 

Doughnuts, No. 3 27 

Materials used in Bread Making 8-9 

Remarks on bread making 5 8 

Rolls, Plain 18 

Rolls, Ring 19 

Rolls, Twist 19 

Rolls, Curl 19 

Rolls, Parker House 20 

Rolls, Graham 20 

Rolls, WholeWheat 20 

Some things to avoid in Bread Making 10-11 

Wheat Cakes 25 

Yeast Dry Hop 13 

Yeast, Home Made 12 



PASTRIES. 

Aople Apricot pie 51 

Apple Custard pie 41 

— 121 — 



Apple Mernigue pie 40 

Apple Dumplings 57 

Blackberry pie 51 

Cooked Green Apple pie 39 

Canned Apple pie 39 

Canned Apple pie No. 2 40 

Canned Peach pie 52 

Cherry pie, plain 42 

Cherry Custard pie 42 

Cherry pie, best 43 

Chocolate pie, plain 46 

Chocolate pie, best 47 

Cocoanut pie 46 

Cream pie, No. 1 45 

Cream pie. No. 2 46 

Custard pie 45 

Dewberry pie 52 

Dried Apricot pie 50 

Dried Apricot pie, No. 2 50 

Fresh Apricot Pie 51 

Fresh Currant pie 50 

Fresh Peach pie 52 

Fruit roll 57 

General remarks 29 

Gooseberry pie, plain 49 

Gooseberry pie, best 49 

Good Dried Peach pie 53 

How to make a pie 35 

How to prepare fillings for pies 36 

Lemon pie. No. 1 37 

Lemon pie, No, 2 38 

Lemon pie, No. 3 38 

Lemon pie, No. 4 39 

Mince Meat for pies 36 

Mince pie 37 

Orange pie 49 

Pie crust, plain 34 

Pie cr u st, good ?. 34 

Pie crust, rich 34 



Patties or shells for tarts .._ 32 

Peach dumplings 56 

Plain Dried Peach pie - 52 

Plum pudding ~ 56 

Plum or Damson pies.. ™ „ 44 

Puff paste 3o 

Plain puff paste 32 

Pumpkin pie, plain 53 

Pumpkin pie, good _ ~ 53 

Pumpkin pie, best 54 

Raisin pie ~ 43 

Rhubarb pie, plain 47 

Rhubarb pie, good 48 

Rhubarb pie, best 48 

Sliced Apple pie „ 41 

Sweet Potato pie „ „ 55 

Sliced sweet potato pie 55 

Transparent pie „ 44 

Tarts, Apple ~ 34 

Tarts, Cream 33 

Tarts, Custard 33 

Tarts, Fruit „ 33 

Tarts, Jelly 33 



POUND CAKES. 

Angel food 70 

Angel food _ 71 

Angel cake 71 

Almond Fruit cake 70 

Birthday Fruit cake 68 

Christmas Fruit cake.. 64 

Cheap white cake ., 78 

Diamond cake 7 7 

Fruit cake _ 67 

General directions for cake making ...... 60-64 

Gold cake _ _ 76 

Hickory Nut cake „ - 79 

Lady cake _ „ 74 

Lady cake, No. 2 74 



123 



Large Fruit cake 65 

Little Fruit cake . 66 

Orange cake 75 

Pound cake — - 72 

Pound cake, No. 2 _... 72 

Pound cake „ 73 

Plain white Pound cake 77 

Raisin Pound cake 76 

Silver cake 75 

Walnut cake „„.„..„ 80 

White Nut cake _ 79 



LAYER CAKES. 

Birthday Layer cake _ 82 

Chocolate Layer cake „ 83 

Cheap Layer cake 89 

Cheap Layer cake 89 

Cocoanut Layer cake 85 

Cream Layer cake 87 

Devil's food 80 

Devil's food 81 

Jelly layer cake 87 

King Layer cake 82 

Mixed Layer cake 85 

Orange Layer cake 86 

Plain Layer cake 88 

Princess Layer cake 84 

Sunday Layer cake 84 

Yellow Layer cake 88 



FROSTINGS, ICINGS AND FILLINGS. 

Apple filling 93 

Banana filling 93 

Boiled icing 92 

Caramel filling 95 

Chocolate icing 94 

Chocolate filling 94 

Chocolate icing 95 



124 



Cream filling 94 

Pig filling 92 

Fig filling 93 

Fresh Fruit filling _ 92 

How to make icing 90 

How to ice a cake 90 

Lemon icing ~ - 95 

Marshmall w filling 95 

Nut filling 93 

Orange filling 92 

Peach Cream filling 92 

Plain icing 91 

Plain icing, No. 2 91 

Water icing 91 



Sponge Cakes, Skeet Cakes, Lady Fingers, Jelly Roll, 

Strawberry Snort Cake, Cream Puffs, 

anci Crullers. 

Cream puffs 103 

Crullers or fried cakes 104 

Fruit sheet cake 99 

Jelly roll No. 1 101 

Jelly roll No. 2 101 

Jelly roll No. 3 101 

Jelly roll No. 4 101 

Jelly roll 102 

Lady Fingers 99 

Lady Fingers :: 300 

Nut sheet cake 98 

Sheet cake 98 

Sponge cake No. 1 97 

Spongecake No. 2 97 

Strawberry short cake 102 

Strawberry short cake No 2 103 



SNAPS AND COOKIES. 

Chocolate cookies 108 

Cookies 107 



— 125 



Cocoanut cookies 109 

Cup cakes 11 

Drop cakes 106 

Lemon snaps, No. 1. 105 

Lemon snaps, No. 2. 105 

Lemon snaps 106 

Rasin cookies 109 

S u gar cookies 108 

Tea cakes 10? 

Vaniila Wafers 104 



GINGER GOODS, 

Fruit Ginger bread 110 

Ginger bread No. 1 Ill 

Ginger bread No 2 112 

Ginger bread No. 3 112 

Ginger bread No. 4 113 

Ginger bread No. 5 113 

Ginger cookies 114 

Ginger cookies, No. 2 114 

Ginger snaps 115 

Ginger snaps, No. 2 115 

Royal Ginger cake „ Ill 



CANDY 

Corn Mixture 117 

Nut candy 118 

Peanut candy... 117 

Peanut candy 118 

Salted Almonds 117 

Vanilla Sugar candy 118 



Miscellaneous 

Baking Powder 119 

Dry measure 120 

Liquid measure 119 



126 



NOV -1 



