II 



STUDIES IN LABORATORY WORK 



STUDIES 



IN 



LABORATORY WORK 



C V . W. DANIELS, M.B.Canib., M.R.C.S. 
\ x 

Director of the London School of Tropical Medicine; Lecturer on Tropical 
Diseases at the London Hospital ; formerly Director of the Institute for Medical 
Research^ Federated Malay States ; Member of the Royal Society Malaria Com- 
mission in India and Africa,, and in the Medical Service of the Colonies of 
Fiji and British Guiana 



AND 

A. T. STANTON, M.D.Tor., M.R.C.S.Eng., D.T.M. & H.Camb. 

Demonstrator London School of Tropical Medicine 



SECOND EDITION 

Thoroughly revised, with many new and additional illustrations 



PHILADELPHIA 

P. BLAKISTON'S SON, & CO. 

i o i 2 WALNUT STREET 
1907 

[All Rtif/itu Rtserveit] 




LONDON 

JOHN BALE, SONS AND DANIEI.SSON, LTD. 
GREAT TITCH FIELD STREET, W 



PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. 



RAPID advance has been made in all branches of tropical 
medicine since the first edition was published. In this edition 
these advances are considered, and especially information as 
to the known carriers of disease has been added, including 
ticks, biting flies and fleas. 

The subjects are now so large that a certain amount of 
systematic classification has become necessary, and tables 
are therefore included showing, in brief, the zoological 
relationship of parasites and of their carriers. 

A sub-division of the chapters has been made, as it is hoped 
from time to time, by publication of the further advances 
made, to supplement the information given in each chapter. 

The general idea remains the same, the book is intended for 
the lonely worker in his private laboratory. 

We are indebted to many friends for advice and assistance, 
particularly in the revision of proofs, and especially to Dr. W. 
H. B. Newham, and A. W. Balch, Surgeon, U.S. Navy. 

C. W. D. 

A. T. S. 
September, 1907. 



PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. 

THE object of this work is to assist practitioners in the 
Tropics in the application of simple laboratory methods to 
the practice of medicine. 

The writer has had personal experience in several countries 
of the peculiar difficulties that a student desirous of advancing 
the knowledge of tropical medicine, or of practising it con- 
scientiously, will meet, and the plan of study advocated is 
the outcome of this experience. 

The subjects include an outline of animal parasitology and 
the development of the best known of these parasites. The 
part played by insects in spreading disease is so important 
that it is necessary to have a sound working knowledge of the 
more important known carriers of disease. 

Chapter vii. has been kindly written by Mr. F. V. Theobald 
for this book, so as to enable the student to differentiate the 
more important genera of the Dipteva. No exhaustive study 
of any one subject has been made, but it is hoped that suffi- 
cient information is given to enable the practitioner to com- 
mence the effective study from the laboratory point of view 
of the more important problems. Simple methods are 
selected as far as possible, and those recommended are in the 
main those adopted by the writer for teaching purposes at 
the London School of Tropical Medicine, and can be relied 
on as applicable to the circumstances. 

Few references are given, as the practitioner in the Tropics 
has rarely access to a library. 

I am much indebted to Dr. G. C. Low, Medical Superin- 
tendent at the London School of Tropical Medicine, for 
valuable assistance, and the revision of the proofs has also 
been kindly undertaken by him. 



CONTENTS. 



The Laboratory... 



Material 



Blood . 



CHAPTER I. 



CHAPTER II. 



CHAPTER III. 



CHAPTER IV. 
Animal Parasites found in the Blood 

CHAPTER V. 
Parasites found in the Blood of Animals 

CHAPTER VI. 
Parasites found in Blood Plasma ... 

CHAPTER VII. 
Parasites other than Protozoa found in Human Blood 

CHAPTER VIII 
Certain Properties of Blood Plasma and Blood Serum 



CHAPTER IX. 



Arthropoda Insecta 



Diptera 



Mosquitoes 



CHAPTER X. 



CHAPTER XI. 



40 



69 



1 06 



117 



148 



153 



194 



X. CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XII. 
Dissection of Mosquitoes... ... ... ... ... 229 

CHAPTER XIII. 
Demonstration of Development of Parasites in Mosquitoes ... 243 

CHAPTER XIV. 
Eggs, Larvae and Pupae of Mosquitoes ... ... ... 252 

CHAPTER XV. 
Fleas, Lice, and Bed-bugs ... ... ... ... 273 

CHAPTER XVI 
Arachnoidea Ticks, Mites, Porocephalus. Crustacea Cyclops 286 

CHAPTER XVII. 
Pigment Deposits and Degenerations in Tissues ... ... 301 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
Parasites in the Tissues . 311 





CHAPTER XIX. 




Faeces ... 


... 


... 318 




CHAPTER XX. 




Intestinal Parasites 


... 


332 




CHAPTER XXI. 




Urine ... 


... 


357 




CHAPTER XXII. 




Bacteriology 


... 


... 365 




CHAPTER XXIII. 




Measurements ... 


... 


... 415 




CHAPTER XXIV. 




Statistics 


... 


... 429 



APPENDIX. 

Tables ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 455 

Instruments and Reagents ... ... ... ... 457 

INDEX... ... ... ... ... ... ... 459 




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



i Automatic Bunsen Burner for Methylated Spirit ..." 3 

2 " Primus " Paraffin Lamp ... ... ... ... 4 

3 A useful Microscope for tropical work... ... ... 6 

4 Micrometer Eye pieces ... ... ... ... 14 

5 Micrometer Eye pieces ... ... ... ... 14 

6 Micrometer Eye pieces ... ... ... ... 14 

7 Koch's Steam Steriliser ... ... ... ... 17 

8 Hot Air Steriliser ... ... ... 18 

9 Hearson's Incubator, working with Petroleum Lamp ... 19 

10 Hot air Oven for paraffin ... ... ... ... 31 

ii Paraffin Bath ... ... ... ... ... 31 

12 Block for moulding paraffin ... ... ... ... 31 

13 Cathcart's Microtome, with spray bellows ... ... 34 

14 Swift's Freezing Microtome ... ... ... ... 35 

15 Parts of Swift's Microtome ... ... ... ... 35 

1 6 Cambridge Rocking Microtome, new pattern for cutting 

flat sections, with large articulating apparatus and 

one razor ... ... ... ... ... 37 

17 Diagram to illustrate the making of a wet blood film ... 42 

1 8 Braddon's method of making blood films ... ... 43 

19 Crenated, vacuolated and buckled corpuscles ... ... 45 

20 Method of making dry films with two slides ... ... 49 

21 Method of making dry films with needle ... ... 49 

22 Method of making dry film with gutta percha ... ... 50 

23 Method of making dry film with two cover glasses ... 50 

24 Leucocytes ... ... ... ... ... 54 

25 Myelocytes ... ... ... ... ... 59 

26 Wide necked stoppered bottle for staining and fixing 

blood films ... ... ... ... ... 72 

27 Schematic view of the asexual and sexual phases of the 

malarial parasite ... ... ... ... 75 

28 Parasites in capillaries ... ... ... ... 84 

29 Phases in the asexual and sexual development of the 

quartan parasite ... ... ... ... 86 

30 Phases in the asexual and sexual development of the 

benign tertian parasite ... ... ... ... 87 



Xll. LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

MI;. PAGE 

31 Phases in the asexual and sexual development of the 

malignant malarial parasite ... ... ... 89 

32 Proteosoma and Halteridium ... ... ... 99 

33 Development of Piroplasma ... ... ... ... 101 

34# Drepanidium ... ... ... ... ... 103 

34^ Haemogregarina balfouri ... ... ... ... 103 

35 Development of H. balfouri (Plate) ... ... ... 104 

36 A Trypanosome dividing ... ... ... ... 110 

37 Forms of Spirochceta obermeiri ... ... ... 112 

38 Trypanosome in various stages ... ... ... 113 

39 Plate of Leishman Donovan bodies ... ... ... 114 

40 Trypanosomes and Leishman-Donovan bodies ... 115 

41 Method of making a film for the examination for filariae... 1 19 

42 Glass rack for staining a number of slides ... ... 120 

43 Cobb's formula for measuring filarins ... ... ... 125 

44 Head of Filaria bancrofti ... ... ... .. 126 

45 Head of Filaria ozzardi ... ... ... ... 126 

46 Tail of Filaria bancrofti ... ... ... ... 127 

47 Tail of Filaria ozzardi ... ... ... ... 127 

48 Head of Filaria demarquai ... ... ... ... 130 

49 Head of Filaria per stans ... ... ... ... 130 

50 Tail of Filaria demarquai ... ... ... ... 131 

51 Tail of Filaria perstans ... ... ... ... 131 

52 Some of the important Spectra ... ... ... 137 

53 Wright's Tubes ... ... ... ... ... 141 

54 Mixing tube ... ... ... ... ... 142 

55 Wright's tube with rubber teat ... ... ... 144 

56 Antennas ... ... ... ... ... ... 155 

57 Mouth of an Empis ... ... ... ... 157 

58 Wing of Tipula ... ... ... ... ... 158 

59 Base of wing, calyptrate diptera ... ... ... 159 

60 Puparium of a " Screw-worm " ... ... ... 159 

61 Wing of a Cecidomyia ... ... ... ... 162 

62 Wing of Anopheles maculipennis ... ... ... 163 

63 Wing of a Culex ... ... ... ... ... 163 

64 Wing of Chironomus ... ... ... ... 164 

65 A Ceratopogon ... ... ... ... ... 164 

66 Wing of Ceratopogon (after Leonard i) ... ... 165 

67 Phlebotomus ... ... ... ... ... 166 

68 Wing of Simulium... ... ... ... ... 167 

69 Head of Tabanus ... ... ... ... ... 168 

70 Wing of a Tabanus... ... ... ... ... 168 

71 Tabanus bovinus ... ... ... ... ... 170 

72 Hcematopota pluvialis ... ... ... ... 170 

73 Head of Hcematopota ... ... ... ... 171 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS Xlll. 

FIG. I'AGK 

74 Wing of Hamatopota pluvialis ... ... ... 171 

75 Chrysops Distinctipennis ... ... ... ... 172 

76 Leptis scolopacea ... ... ... ... ... 173 

77 Wing of Empis ... ... ... ... ... 174 

78 Dermatobia noxialis ... ... ... ... 161 

79 Dermatobia noxialis ... ... ... ... 161 

80 Stomoxys ... ... ... ... ... ... 179 

8 1 Wing of Stomoxys calcitrans ... ... ... 180 

82 Cross-section of proboscis of Stomoxys ... ... 180 

83 Dissections of the abdomen of Stomoxys ... ... 182 

84 Transverse section of the proboscis of Glossina palpalis 184 

85 Glossina morsitans ... ... ... ... ... 184 

86 Lucilia c&sar ... ... ... ... ... 187 

87 H ead of Lucilia ccesar ... . . , ... ... 187 

88 Chrysomyia macellaria ... ... ... ... 188 

89 Auchmeromyia luteola ... ... ... ... 188 

90 Homalomyia canicularis ... ... ... ... 190 

91 Larva of Homalomyia ... ... ... ... 191 

92 Wing of Hydrotcea ciliata ... ... ... ... 191 

93 Hippobosca equina ... ... ... ... ... 192 

94 Melophagus ovinus ... ... ... ... 192 

95 Pinning Mosquitoes on discs ... ... ... 196 

96 Examination of scales on Mosquito ... ... ... 197 

97 Types of scales, head ornamentation, forms of clypeus ... 198 

98 Anatomy ... ... ... ... ... ... 200 

99 Types of metathorax (Theobald) ... ... ... 201 

100 Neuration of wing (Theobald) ... ... ... 203 

101 Various forms of wing-scales (Theobald) ... ... 204 

102 Mosquitoes ... ... ... ... ... 208 

103 Culex (male and female) and Anopheles (male and female) 209 

104 Head and mouth-parts of Mosquito ... ... ... 229 

105 Maxillae and mandibles of Mosquito ... ... ... 230 

106 Tip of Proboscis of Mosquito ... ... ... 231 

107 Cross-section of proboscis of Mosquito ... ... 232 

108 Method for dissecting Mosquitoes ... ... ... 234 

109 Method for dissecting Mosquitoes ... ... ... 235 

1 10 Method for the dissection of the salivary glands ... 237 

(Method for the dissection of the salivary glands ... 238 

(Stomach of the Mosquito, showing zygotes ... ... 246 

112 Eggs of Mosquitoes ... ... ... ... 254 

113 Method for catching larvae ... ../ ... ... 256 

114 Method for catching larvae ... ... ... ... 256 

115 Breeding grounds of Mosquitoes ... ... ... 266 

116 Breeding grounds of Mosquitoes ... ... ... 266 

117 Mosquito box ... ... ,., ... ... 270 

118 Folding mosquito cage ... ... ... ... 271 



XIV. LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

KIO. I'AGE 

119 Mosquito house ... ... ... ... ... 272 

120 Mouth-parts of a Flea (after Wagner) ... 274 

121 External anatomy of flea ... ... ... ... 276 

122 Types of Fleas ... ... ... ... 278 

123 Pediculus "vestimenti ... ... ... 282 

1 24 Phthirius inguinalis .., ... ... ... 283 

125 Cimex lectularius ... ... ... ... ... 284 

126 Legs of Ticks ... ... ... 288 

127 Ixodina (female) ... ... ... ... ... 289 

128 Ixodina (males) ... ... ... ... ... 291 

129 M outh- parts of Ornithodoros ... ... ... 294 

130 Mouth-parts of Ixodes ... ... ... ... 295 

131 Mouth-parts of Rhipicephalus ... ... ... 295 

132 Ornithodoros savignyi ... ... ... ... 297 

133 Demodex follicularum ... ... ... ... 298 

134 Stages of Cyclops ... ... ... ... ... 300 

135 Wire gauze strainer ... ... ... ... 327 

136 Eggs of some of the Intestinal Worms ... ... 329 

137 Anatomy of a segment of a Tapeworm ... ... 335 

138 Genital pores of some of the Tapeworms ... ... 336 

139 Diagrammatic view of suckers of Trematodes ... ... 339 

140 Anatomy of a Fluke ... ... ... ... 340 

141 Oxyuris vermicularis (male and female) ... ... 345 

142 Trichocephalus dispar (male and female) ... ... 345 

143 Male and female Ankylostomes ... ... ... 347 

144 Head and tail of male A. duodenale; head and tail of 

male N. americanus ... ... ... ... 348 

145 Scheme of development of Amoeba ... ... ... 353 

1 46 Cercomonas ho minis ... ... ... ... 355 

147 Balantidiuin coli ... ... ... ... ... 355 

148 Erlenmeyer's Flask... ... ... ... ... 369 

149 Petri's Dish ... ... ... ... ... 373 

150 Cornet's Forceps ... ... ... ... ... 381 

I5 1 Durham's tubes ... ... ... ... ... 391 

152 Centrifuge ... ... ... ... ... 395 

153 Thoma's Haemocytometer, by Zeiss ... ... ... 418 

154 Oliver's Tintometer ... ... ... ... 425 

155 Cowers' Hasmoglobinometer ... ... ... 426 

156 Von Fleischl's Hiemometer ... ... ... ... 427 

Six Statistical Charts ... ... 444, 445, 446, 447, 448, 451 

COLOURED PLATES AT END. 
Plate I. 27 figures 
Plate II. 19 figures 
Plate III. 21 figures 
Plate IV. 25 figures 



Studies in Laboratory Work. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE LABORATORY. In few places in the Tropics is 
there any institution that corresponds to the British 
idea of a laboratory. Tap-water, gas and electric light 
usually have to be dispensed with and substitutes 
employed. The isolated worker has to arrange and 
make his own laboratory, either in the house or attached 
to a hospital. A separate building will rarely be available. 

The first essential is a good light, and if, as is usual, 
work is done by daylight, the light must come neither 
from east nor west. A north or south aspect should be 
chosen, according to whether the worker is north or 
south of the line, so as to avoid direct sunlight. 

A corner of a verandah can be made into a good 
laboratory, by placing blinds or jalousies on two sides, 
and leaving only the one side, that facing north or south, 
open. The side from which the light is received should 
be closed in with a window if possible, to prevent the 
entrance of rain and dust. 

Another important consideration is wind, and with the 
wind the amount of dust. If there is a glass window this 
is of less importance, but if working on an open verandah, 
a portion of the verandah sheltered from the prevailing 
wind must be selected, even if this choice involves the 
sacrifice of the most favourable light. 

If a room with a north or south aspect is not available 



2 THE LABORATORY 

any other aspect will suffice, provided that there is a deep, 
low verandah outside the window. 

On the wall of the laboratory should be fixed a number 
of plain wooden shelves. One of the lower of these, at a 
convenient height, should be strong and broad enough 
to receive heavy weights. On this shelf may be kept 
mosquito cages, maturing larvae and other objects 
awaiting immediate examination or requiring constant 
attention. 

It is convenient to have two tables one on which to 
work with the microscope, and also for papers, notebooks 
and any book actually in use, another on which staining 
processes, dissections and the rougher and more messy 
work can be done. Individual habits of neatness and 
arrangement make a difference. Though much excellent 
work has been done by untidy workers, there is no doubt 
that in the limited space available on the narrow veran- 
dahs usual in many parts of the Tropics, work is easier 
and more comfortable if the habit of tidiness be culti- 
vated. Persons who are exceptionally neat and method- 
ical in their habits will probably find one long table 
more convenient than the two recommended here. 

For work with the microscope a firm steady table is 
required, and this should be placed a few feet from the 
window. The second table, which should be also strong, 
must be placed in a good light, and it is better to have 
the light falling from the left-hand side of the table. 

For the other side of the laboratory jalousies are most 
convenient, as they let in plenty of air and can be turned 
so as to regulate the amount of air and to stop the 
entrance of rain. A cheaper arrangement is to use reeds, 
as natives in the most parts of the world are good workers 
with reeds. Sufficient air will pass through to keep the 
room cool. Native mats can be used, but must be nailed 
on to a framework, otherwise they will get blown about 
by the wind. 

Water must be kept in bulk, as tap-water is rarely 
available. A small tank an empty thoroughly cleaned 



THE LABORATORY 3 

kerosine tin will serve should be kept filled with water. 
This should be filtered, and a glass syphon tube with 
a rubber tube and clamp attached can be used to draw 




FIG. i. AUTOMATIC BUNSEN BURNER FOR METHYLATED SPIRIT. 

it off. The tank must be kept covered with a well- 
fitting lid, and a basin or other receptacle should be 
placed underneath to receive the waste and washings of 
stains, &c. 



4 LABORATORY APPARATUS 

Distilled water must be kept in bulk in a well-stop- 
pered bottle, from which a sufficient amount is taken as 
required into a wash bottle for immediate use. 

An excellent substitute for the ordinary gas Bunsen 
burner is the spirit Bunsen (fig. i). The " Primus" 
Kerosine Smokeless Burner will be found very useful for 
heating vessels on a larger scale (fig. 2). 




FIG. 2. "PRIMUS" PARAFFIN LAMP. 

An incubator is an enormous advantage and for accurate 
bacteriological work is essential. The temperature in most 
tropical places ranges from 75 upwards, and organisms 
grow better at " room " temperature than in England. In 
many places the nocturnal and diurnal variations are 
small, and in such the need for an incubator is not so 
great. In others there is a great difference between the 
day and night temperature, and in these the need is 
great.* A cold incubator is useless unless ice can be 
obtained. 



* With practice and the exercise of some ingenuity a workable 
incubator can be made by placing one tin inside a larger one ; 
(or a chemist's water-oven may be employed). The space between 



THE MICROSCOPE 5 

Cultures should be kept in a dark cupboard, which 
must be as dry as possible. 

Above the long broad shelf running along the wall 
two or three rows of narrow shelves should be fitted up 
on which stains in use can be kept. These are better kept 
exposed than in cupboards. The main stock can, of 
course, be kept out of sight. 

For night work a good lamp is required. The lamp 
must be low, and the flame not more than six inches 
from the table.* 

Equipment : A good microscope with a sub-stage con- 
denser, iris diaphragm and mechanical stage is essential. 
An oil immersion T ^-inch objective, a low power, say 
f-inch, and a fairly high power, say -J-inch, will be 
required. For many purposes a ^-inch is a very useful 
lens. It is well to have two eye-pieces. 

The choice of suitable microscopes is a large one, and 
the differences between those of different makers are not 
very great, the points of difference being such that it is 
difficult to say which is the best. In the choice much 
depends on the conditions under which the work has to 
be conducted. If much travelling has to be done it is 
advisable to have a microscope that is easily carried and 
can be set up for use at a moment's notice. Of these 
travelling or portable microscopes there are several 
different forms all fulfilling the main requirements light- 
ness, compactness, and usefulness. The folding micro- 
scopes made by some makers, though compact and 
easily packed, are heavy and therefore inconvenient 
to carry. 

If most of the work can be done at a fixed station 



the two is filled with water. A small kerosine lamp placed beneath 
the tins will heat the water, and by varying the height of the lamp a 
sufficiently equable temperature can be maintained. 

* For the best definition the narrow edge of the flame should be 
used as the source of the illumination and focussed accurately on the 
object. 



THE MICROSCOPE 



one of the ordinary forms of microscope is the most 
convenient to work with. If the expense is no object 
it is well to have two stands, one portable and one for 




FIG. 3. 

stationary work. The objectives and eye-pieces can be 
used for either, and therefore the additional expense is 
not very great. 



THE MICROSCOPE 7 

PARTS OF A MICROSCOPE. The base or stand is a 
stage fixed either to a tripod or to a vertical column 
rigidly attached to a solid and heavy footplate. The 
tripod is to be preferred, as from the wide spread of 
the legs greater stability is secured, and the level is less 
affected by irregularities in the table on which the micro- 
scope is placed. 

In the folding and portable microscope the legs of the 
tripod are jointed at or near their junction with the stage, 
and can be folded back so as to economise space in 
packing. 

The stage itself is a fixed plate firmly attached to the 
upright carrying the optical parts of the instrument, viz., 
the mirror and sub-stage condenser below the stage, and 
the tube, eye-piece and objective above. 

To this solid plate is fixed the mechanical stage, of 
which there are two main types : 

(1) Those in which a lighter stage carrying the 
object to be examined is attached above the fixed 
stage. This can be moved by a rack and pinion in 
two directions at right angles to each other. 

(2) Those in which the slide is seized by catches 
and moved over the solid stage. 

Some mechanical stages have in addition to the rectan- 
gular motions a circular one in the same plane. This 
motion is not required. 

Of the two types, preference should be given to the 
first, as it can be used for objects of all sizes and shapes, 
not simply, as with the second, for objects mounted on 
the regulation slides. With care it does not get out of 
order any more readily than that of the second type. 

The microscope tube is attached to the upright in such 
a manner that it can be moved up and down parallel to 
the upright, but allows no lateral movement in any 
direction. The length of the tube is important, as with 
the higher objectives the best definition is obtained with 
a certain known length of tube. This distance varies 
with the objectives of different makers. To provide for 



8 THE MICROSCOPE 

this variation there is a second or draw-tube inside the 
outer tube, which can be drawn out so as to lengthen the 
tube to the required extent. The length of tube required 
for an objective should be ascertained, and the draw-tube 
should be, and usually is, marked so that the correspond- 
ing length can be obtained. 

In the portable and folding microscope the outer tube 
is so short that it is always necessary to use the draw- 
tube. 

The adjustments by which the object is focussed are 
of two kinds : 

(1) The coarse adjustment, by which the tube is 
moved by a rack and pinion and brought approxi- 
mately into focus. The range of the coarse adjust- 
ment is great, but the movement is too coarse to 
focus easily and correctly with higher powers. 

(2) The fine adjustment, which may be a differen- 
tial screw or of the lever pattern. The range of this 
adjustment is small, but very delicate movement is 
obtained. 

ILLUMINATING APPARATUS. Good illumination is abso 
lutely necessary for useful work with high powers. The 
parts of the microscope providing for this illumination 
and modifying it are the mirror, the sub-stage condenser 
and the iris diaphragm where, as is most usually the case, 
the object is to be examined by transmitted light. For 
opaque objects which can only be usefully examined with 
low powers illumination comes from above the stage. 

The Mirror is attached below the condensor. It has 
two surfaces, one concave and the other plane. The 
plane mirror is that employed for work with higher 
powers. Too small a mirror should not be used. 

The Sub-stage Condenser. This is placed between the 
mirror and the stage, and collects the rays of light 
received from the mirror into a cone of large aperture, 
which can be focussed on to the plane of the object. 

It must be centred so that the optical axis corresponds 
with that of the objective, and must be movable so that 



THE MICROSCOPE 9 

it can be moved up or down in this axis. The move- 
ment is better performed by a rack and pinion, but in 
most of the portable microscopes this has to be done by 
hand. 

THE LENSES. To the tube are fixed at each end the 
two systems of lenses used for the magnification of the 
object. The lower system of lenses, which is screwed 
on to the lower end of the tube, is the objective and 
forms a real image of the object, which is further magni- 
fied by the system of lenses at the upper end of the tube 
the eye-piece. 

To save time, annoyance, and wear of screws a nose- 
piece is fitted to the lower end of the tube, to which 
can be screwed the three objectives in use instead of 
screwing them directly to the lower end of the tube. 

These are the essentials of a microscope for the work 
here contemplated. It can be purchased complete for 
about 20 from several well-known makers. The price 
varies a little, but the reader is strongly advised to pay 
little attention to slight differences of price in the selec- 
tion of an instrument that suits him. Much more expen- 
sive instruments can be purchased, but at about the 
above-mentioned price an instrument can be obtained 
suitable for the work contemplated. The portable 
microscopes with the same objectives are about 3 or 
^"4 less. 

No microscope should be bought without spending 
some time in careful examination and testing of the 
lenses and adjustments. The points to which special 
attention should be paid are : (i) The rigidity of the 
stand. This rigidity must be constant both with the tube 
vertical and inclined. (2) All the adjustments and screw 
movements must be tested to see that they work smoothly 
and evenly, and that every movement of the milled head 
results in effective movement of the screw and of the 
part of the instrument which it is intended to move. 



10 THE MICROSCOPE 

With the mechanical stage it is further necessary to 
satisfy one's self that the movement imparted to the stage 
is all in one plane, otherwise as the object is moved it will 
also move out of focus. This can be ascertained by 
examining an object, such as a uniform blood film, under 
various powers and determining how far the object 
remains in focus. When using a T yinch objective, even 
with the best stages, some focussing will be necessary, 
but it should be slight, and the object should be very 
little out of focus with considerable movements of the 
mechanical stage. A slide and film of uniform thickness 
must be used for this test, and the result of the examina- 
tion should be confirmed by using a series of slides. 

The nose-piece should centralise the objective cor- 
rectly, otherwise an object that is in the centre of the 
field with a low power may not be in the field with a 
higher power. This is tested by centralising with the 
highest power some object that is visible with the lowest 
power, and seeing how near the centre of the field this 
object is when viewed with the other objectives. The 
order should also be reversed if the test appears to be 
satisfactory. 

In testing the objectives the points to be most closely 
investigated are : 

(1) Definition. Unless the object is sharply and 
clearly defined the magnification is wasted. 

(2) Flatness of field. Many lenses give good and 
sharp definition at the centre of the field, whilst 
objects a little removed from the centre are blurred, 
and those at the periphery are out of focus. In 
using such lenses, if any other part of the field is 
brought into focus the objects in the centre of the 
field will be out of focus. With such a lens the field 
is not flat. It is perhaps too much to hope that the 
periphery of the field will be in sharp focus at the 
same time as the centre, but at any rate for blood 
work the greater part of the field must be flat, other- 
wise objects such as malaria parasites may easily be 
overlooked. 



ILLUMINATION II 

(3) Chromatic aberration must be entirely corrected 
and no particoloured fringe seen round the edge of 
the field. 

(4) Magnification. As a test object a well- stained, 
evenly spread blood film is as good an object as any, 
and as the object is a familiar one the degree of 
magnification can be readily estimated. Both eye- 
pieces should be used in turn. 

In the use of the microscope great attention must be 
paid to the illumination. The light in the Tropics is not 
good, as it so often has to be derived from blue sky. 
The mirror should be turned so as to receive the light 
from a white cloud when possible. 

When very sharp definition is required the narrow 
edge of a flat flame should be used as the source of 
illumination. In using the low power this should be 
focussed on the object, and by means of the centring 
screws of the condenser brought right across the field of 
vision. A higher power, say ^, should then be used, and 
again the condenser should be centred so that the image 
of the flame stretches across the field. Finally, this pro- 
cess is repeated with the oil immersion lens. 

The condenser must be raised until the image of the 
flame is as sharply defined as the object under examina- 
tion. In this way very sharp definition is obtained, but 
the greater part of the field is not illuminated. 

For the finer work the condenser as well as the 
objectives must be apochromatic. 

In using a low power the condensor should be low so 
as to be out of focus, or if the stand permits it, swung 
out so as not to be between the mirror and the object. 
With a |-inch objective it should be higher, and with 
the T ^-inch oil immersion objective close to the under- 
surface of the slide. 

The brightest and most uniform light that can be 
obtained with the iris diaphragm open is the best. If it 
is desired to reduce the light, it should be done by closing 
the diaphragm, not by altering the position of the con- 
denser or of the mirror. 



12 USE OF MICROSCOPE 

Both the mirror and condenser should be kept clean. 

It is well to have a spare mirror, as these silvered 
mirrors sometimes deteriorate rapidly in the Tropics. 

In focussing it is well to bring the objective nearer 
to the object than is necessary, and then, using the 
coarse adjustment, whilst looking down the microscope 
to withdraw the objective from the object till it is seen 
more or less distinctly. For exact focussing the fine 
adjustment should be used, but not till the object is 
nearly in focus. The range of the fine adjustment is 
small, and if used over too extensive a range there is risk 
of straining it. 

When working with the oil immersion lens it is well 
to place the oil on the object and screw down the tube 
till the objective touches the oil. In doing this the drop 
of oil should be viewed from the side, and it will then 
be easy to see when the objective touches the oil. After- 
wards very slowly focus on the object. Before using an 
oil immersion lens the field should be examined with 
a low power to make certain that there is something 
visible in the field. In a fresh blood film, for instance, 
if a part be selected in which there are no corpuscles 
there may be nothing to focus on, and in such a case 
there is risk of screwing the objective down on the cover- 
glass. 

If black specks are visible in the field it is well to rotate 
the eye-piece ; if these rotate with the eye-piece there are 
particles of dirt in some part of the eye-piece. Dirt on 
the objective shows as a general haziness ; such haziness 
may also be due to a cloudy or dirty cover-glass or a 
badly prepared specimen. 

All glass, and particularly the softer and more highly 
refractile glass of which lenses are made, is liable in a hot, 
moist climate to deteriorate and become cloudy or white, 
resembling very fine ground glass. When lenses become 
affected in this way they require regrinding. Some lenses 
spoil more quickly than others, and in purchasing objec- 
tives it should be stated that they are required for work 



DETERIORATION 13 

in the Tropics. Various less serious conditions are some- 
times mistaken for this change in the glass. The cement 
may run so that it partly covers the inner aspect of the 
objective. In other cases water condenses between two 
lenses and causes a want of definition similar to that due 
to frosting of the glass. Either of these conditions may 
be detected by unscrewing the lenses and examining the 
surface with a watchmaker's glass or hand-lens. These 
conditions, when discovered, are easily remedied. It is 
well to use only lenses that can be unscrewed, and from 
time to time to unscrew and clean the surface of the 
lenses carefully. They will keep longer if this is done, 
but must not be expected to last as long as they do in 
England. Lenses not in use are best kept in a perfectly 
dry stoppered bottle. There is no objection to having 
some dehydrating agent, such as well-dried calcium 
chloride, in a separate compartment in the same bottle. 

A camera lucida or drawing camera is a great conve- 
nience, and so useful for measurements that some form 
of this instrument should be used. That of Leitz is a 
cheap and simple form, the use of which it is easy to 
learn. 

For measurements a micrometer slide ruled to 1 ^ y of 
a millimetre is a useful accessory ; failing it any of the 
standard ruled scales, such as the counting chamber of 
a Thoma-Zeiss' or Gowers' haemocytometer, can be used 
as a substitute. 

A micrometer scale to be placed in the eye-piece in 
focus with the front lens is useful for some measure- 
ments, but can be dispensed with if measurements are 
made with a camera lucida. A more useful form of eye- 
piece micrometer is ruled in squares. Once they are 
standardised these can be used for blood counts, and the 
ruled scales used for the counting chamber of a hsemo- 
cytometer, &c., dispensed with. For many purposes it 
is convenient to subdivide the field, and this can be more 
readily done with a micrometer eye-piece ruled in squares 
than in any other way. 



MICROMETER EYE-PIECE 



These eye-piece scales are simply placed in the eye- 
piece and rest on the diaphragm between the two lenses. 
It will usually be necessary to move the diaphragm 




FIG. 6. 

slightly in order to bring the scale sharply into focus, but 
this is easily accomplished. 

These eye-pieces require standardisation for the value 



DISSECTING MICROSCOPE 15 

of the squares or scale. The micro-millimetre scale is 
used as the object, and for each objective the number 
of micro-millimetres in a division of the scale noted. 
This can be done once for all and the records preserved. 
There is no object in having the divisions of a scale or 
the squares of an accurately known size. As seen in the 
eye-piece they are magnified. 

A warm stage is not so much needed in the Tropics as 
in England, but is a convenience. The simplest form is 
a copper plate perforated with a hole the size of a shilling. 
From the plate a copper tongue extends in front for 
about six inches. The under-surface of the plate is 
covered with cloth and is placed on the stage so that the 
aperture corresponds to the central aperture in the stage. 
The object is placed on the slide on the copper plate and 
examined, and by heating the tip of the tongue of copper 
projecting from the plate by means of a spirit lamp, the 
heat will be conducted to the plate and the slide kept 
warm. By heating the tongue nearer to the plate a higher 
temperature will be obtained, and by lowering the spirit 
lamp, or moving it further off, a lower temperature. 
With a little practice there is no difficulty in maintaining 
a fairly uniform temperature which can be estimated by 
touch. More elaborate warm stages are to be procured 
in which the temperature is kept steady by the circula- 
tion of hot water. 

A dissecting microscope is useful but not essential ; it 
consists of a single compound lens fixed on a vertical 
carrier which can be raised or lowered by a rack and 
pinion ; the stage is of glass and there are wooden 
movable hand-rests at each side. For illumination there 
is a plane reflector, and as an alternative on the other 
side of the mirror a plaster of Paris disc. 

For most of the purposes for which the dissecting 
microscope is used a watchmaker's glass does equally 
well, and for some purposes it is better, as both hands are 
free, and no stage is required. 

A good large hand-lens on a handle is useful for 
observing the habits of mosquito larvae. 



16 COVER GLASSES AND SLIDES 

Reagents, stains, slides and cover-glasses are required. 
The slides should not be of the best quality ; the thin, 
white slides deteriorate in the Tropics more rapidly than 
the coarser glasses. No. 2 quality is to be preferred. 
They require thorough cleaning, and a stock cleaned and 
ready for use, requiring only to be wiped, should be 
kept in hand. They are best cleaned by placing in a 
saturated solution of carbonate of soda which is just 
brought to the boil. Afterwards they are well washed in 
running water, wiped with a soft linen rag, and kept in 
spirit in a stoppered or well-corked, wide-mouthed bottle. 
Before use the slide must be taken out of the spirit and 
well rubbed with a soft, clean linen rag. 

Cover-glasses are best sent out in oil or covered with 
oil, as even in the course of a voyage lasting only two 
weeks they may become frosted. The whole mass of 
cover-glasses, say half an ounce, is placed in oil of cloves, 
and the cover-glasses are separated so that the oil pene- 
trates between them. They are then taken out of the 
oil, wrapped in cotton-wool and can be replaced in their 
boxes. Treated in this way they will keep for months 
even in the worst climates. They also keep well if sent 
out in spirit, but this is not recommended, as if the 
spirit evaporates completely the glasses deteriorate very 
quickly. 

Cover-glasses treated with oil are not very easy to 
clean, as the oil will have hardened and dried to a large 
extent. A good deal of the oil can be removed by plac- 
ing the cover-glasses in i per cent, lysol solution or in 
xylol, and separating them or stirring them up. This 
saves the spirit which is necessary to more completely 
remove the oil. They must not be left more than an 
hour in the lysol, and then should be placed and kept 
in spirit, which will gradually remove nearly all the oil. 

A small stock should be further prepared so as to be 
ready for immediate use. This may be done by first just 
bringing them up to the boiling point in a saturated 
solution of carbonate of soda, washing well, preferably 



COVER GLASSES 17 

in running water, and transferring them to strong sul- 
phuric acid ; in this they should be left over night, then 
again well washed in water and finally transferred to a 
wide-necked, well-stoppered bottle half filled with spirit. 
For use they should be taken out with forceps and well 
rubbed with a soft linen rag. 




FIG. 7. 



Such cover-glasses should be free from both grease 
and grit, and are then fit to use for making fresh fluid 
blood films or for other preparations. As alternatives to 
the treatment with carbonate of soda and sulphuric acid, 
some prefer strong nitric acid and others bichromate of 
potash (2 parts), sulphuric acid (3 parts) and water (25 
parts) ; others, again, sulphuric acid alone. In any of 
these solutions the cover-glass can be kept indefinitely 
and washed in water immediately before use. 

Cover-glasses should be of the best quality, and for 
blood work the thinnest (No. i) should be used. A 



i8 



STERILISERS 



smaller stock of thicker cover-glasses should be kept for 
the examination of faeces and making " squash " prepara- 
tions. These thicker cover-glasses do not deteriorate so 
rapidly. 

For bacteriological work some form of steam steriliser- 
is necessary to sterilise vessels, media, &c. With this 
all requisite sterilisation for ordinary work can be done, 
but a hot air steriliser is an advantage for the quicker 
and easier sterilisation of vessels, Petri dishes and some 
instruments. 




FIG. 8. HOT AIR STERILISER. 

A steam steriliser (fig. 7) is simply a tall metal vessel 
covered with a lid with a vent for the escape of steam, 
and containing water at the bottom. As it is not well 
to immerse the objects to be sterilised in the water, there 
is a perforated false bottom above the level of the water 
on which such objects rest. The whole vessel to pre- 
vent loss of heat is covered with some non-conducting 
material. There is no great difficulty in improvising 
such a steriliser, but those sold are more sightly and 
convenient. 



STERILISERS 19 

They can be heated by a paraffin lamp, and the 
" Primus " is one of the best. At a pinch a wood or 
other fire may be used. 

The hot air steriliser (fig. 8) is a metal case enclosed 
in a second larger one, the two being separated by an 




FIG. 9. HEARSON'S INCUBATOR, WORKING WITH PETROLEUM LAMP. 



air space. The double case can be dispensed with, but 
the heating is then less uniform. A temperature of about 
1 60 C. is required. 

Incubators are needed where it is important that growth 



20 INCUBATOR 

should take place at a uniform temperature, and are 
essential when it is desired to describe accurately the 
character of the growth of an organism, or to compare 
one growth with another, or with the description of 
another. 

Where gas cannot be obtained a form of incubator 
which can be used with kerosine must be employed 

(fig- 9)- 
At " room temperature " in the Tropics most organisms 

grow well, and much useful work can be done without 
an incubator. 

If there is no incubator a dark cupboard must be used, 
as light has a deleterious effect on most bacteria. This 
cupboard should be fixed in a dry place, where the tem- 
perature is as uniform as possible. 



21 



CHAPTER II. 
POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 

Post-mortem examinations in the Tropics present certain 
differences from these examinations in temperate climates. 
Post-mortem changes are more rapid, so that it is essential 
that the examination should be made as soon as possible 
after death. This is not only on account of the rapidity 
with which putrefactive changes occur, but also because 
many of the animal parasites die, and some, such as the 
sporozoa, disintegrate and cease to stain well even before 
putrefactive changes set in. 

A large proportion of tropical diseases are those affect- 
ing the abdominal viscera, and to study the exact relation- 
ship of the parts it is often advisable to remove the 
thoracic and abdominal viscera en masse. The abdomen 
should be freely opened and room gained by subcuta- 
neous division of the muscles attached to the pubes 
below, and sternum and ribs above. 

The attachments of the diaphragm to the sternum and 
costal margins must next be divided with the knife close 
to the chest wall, and the parietal peritoneum stripped 
off the abdominal wall with the hand as far as possible. 
The trachea and vessels going to the neck are then to be 
freely divided by passing the hand and knife in front of 
the lungs and cutting transversely above the root of the 
lungs, whilst with the hand the thoracic viscera are 
grasped rirmly at the root of the lungs and steady traction 
exercised. When the division is complete, the lungs and 
heart will be easily pulled downwards through the lower 
opening of the thorax. With the knife the posterior 



22 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS 

attachments of the diaphragm are divided from above, 
and steady traction, aided by a few touches with the 
knife, will strip the peritoneum off the remainder of the 
wall of the abdomen, and all the abdominal viscera with 
the aorta and kidneys will be completely separated except 
at their pelvic attachments. These can be divided, or 
better, the peritoneum stripped off the pelvis at each 
side, and the urethra and rectum divided as near the 
perineum as possible. 

The mass of organs can be now examined from every 
aspect and the relations of the different parts readily 
observed. 

By this method the root of the mesentery, the posterior 
mediastinum, and other parts which are usually over- 
looked can be displayed, and in these regions para- 
sites are sometimes found. 

Certain special observations are worthy of attention : 

(1) The weights and relative weights of the organs 
vary considerably from European standards, both in 
health and in disease. With the lungs, in recording 
the weight, it is essential to note also the time that 
has elapsed between death and the examination, as 
the weights of these organs increase a few hours 
after death, probably by aspiration of fluid. If the 
examination is made two or three hours after death 
the lungs will be barely half the weight taken as the 
standard in Europe, whereas, if the examination is 
made later the weights may be much the same.* 

(2) Variation in weight of the organs with age 
differs in different races, and the curves obtained for 
the organs are in many cases different from those 
recorded in Europe. For example, the brain weight 
in Europe attains its maximum between 45 and 50, 
whilst in the negro the maximum is reached between 
20 and 25.* 

(3) Abnormalities are common, and some of them 
occur with unusual frequency in certain races, such 
as Meckel's diverticulum in the Chinese, and deeply 



PUTREFRACTIVE CHANGES 23 

fissured lungs in the negro races. Diseases also 
affect organs differently according to race, and of 
this the age incidence of splenic enlargement in negro 
and other races living under the same conditions is 
a striking example. While in childhood all are 
equally affected by malarial disease, in adult life the 
spleen in the negro tends to subside, but in other 
races, Indian, Chinese and aboriginals, it remains 
increased in size, and is commonly found post mortem 
to be three or four times the weight of the European 
normal.* 

(4) Abnormal appearances, such as congestion, 
ecchymosis, &c., are more common in the Tropics, 
and are observed under different conditions. On 
the one hand, as the examinations are made much 
earlier the appearances resemble more closely those 
in the living subject ; and on the other hand, as 
putrefactive changes occur so easily,, particularly in 
the vicinity of the intestine, patchy, irregular post- 
mortem staining is common, and is frequently mis- 
taken for disease. 

(5) Certain special putrefactive changes may be 
a source of error. As a result of putrefaction some 
of the organs, and particularly the spleen, often 
appear of a slaty colour, which may be mistaken 
for malarial pigmentation. Section of the organ will 
show that the discoloration of early putrefaction 
only extends for a short distance into its substance. 
The substance of the spleen in section sometimes 
appears very dark, but this colour can be dis- 
tinguished from that of acute malaria by noticing 
that the dark colour changes to bright red after ex- 
posure to air. The only satisfactory test of malarial 
pigmentation of an organ is by examination of a 
portion of the tissue with the microscope. It is 
not necessary to cut sections, a small portion of the 

* Vide tables in Appendix. 



24 EXAMINATION FOR ENTOZOA 

organ can be pulped between two slides and ex- 
amined at once for pigment. 

A diffluent spleen is often described, but is not met 
with in post-mortem examinations made early. The 
spleen, even in the most acute cases of malaria, though 
enlarged and black, is firm, and wedges with acute angles 
can be cut. These angles retain their sharpness even 
when exposed to a jet of water. Such a spleen is easily 
pulped, and if allowed to decompose speedily becomes 
"diffluent." 

Organs, shortly after death, are firm and hard from 
rigor mortis of the tissue elements. When this passes 
off the organs become flaccid and softer. 

Many of the early putrefactive organisms form gas, 
and consequently emphysematous changes are pro- 
duced ; such emphysema of the liver and other organs 
is common. In the intestines small emphysematous 
patches form in the submucosa, and present a peculiar 
and rather deceptive appearance. 

Gaseous distension of the whole intestine is very com- 
mon, and the stretched walls appear unusually thin and 
are often described as atrophied. 

EXAMINATION FOR ENTOZOA. In the examination of 
intestines in the Tropics it is not advisable to wash out 
the intestine before opening it. The intestine should 
be opened and examined for entozoa first and subse- 
quently washed to see the condition of the mucosa. If 
the intestines are washed out first, the entozoa will be 
carried away, and may escape notice. 

Worms and intestinal parasites die as a rule within 
some six to twelve hours after the death of the host, 
and some, such as the ankylostomes, lose their hold on 
the intestinal walls even earlier. 

MUSEUM PREPARATIONS. In the older methods for 
the fixation and hardening of macroscopical specimens, 
alcohol, and, later, formalin were employed. These 
methods preserved the form and relations of organs well, 
but were practically valueless for preserving the natural 
colours. 



MUSEUM PREPARATIONS 25 

Modern methods in use result in the preservation of 
the natural colours of the specimens and harden them 
at the same time. The basis of the methods is the use 
of a first bath of formalin, which has the power of 
changing oxyhaemoglobin into acid haematin, of a 
second bath of spirit, which converts the acid haematin 
into alkali haematin, which in colour is very similar to 
oxyhaemoglobin, so that the tissues regain their natural 
colours ; finally the specimens are preserved in a solution 
containing potassium acetate, glycerine and water. 

Kaiserling's original method, which gives as uniformly 
satisfactory results as any of its modifications, is as 
follows : 

(1) The organs are fixed in the formol mixture 
until they are just hardened thirty-six to forty-eight 
hours or even longer. The best results are obtained 
by fixing in the dark. 

Formalin... ... .:. 200 cc. 

Water ... ... ... 1,000 cc. 

Nitrate of potassium ... 15 grammes. 

Acetate of potassium ... 30 grammes. 
As a substitute 10 per cent, formalin may be used. 
Weak formalin must not be used, as this dissolves 
out the haemoglobin. 

A section of a solid organ such as the spleen or 
liver can be safely placed in a vessel containing this 
fluid, but in dealing with softer tissues it is advisable 
to wrap the specimen loosely in cotton-wool before 
immersion, and to give it plenty of room. In dealing 
with an entire organ it is best to inject it with the 
fluid, as the organ then retains its shape better, and 
the haemoglobin in its interior is more completely 
converted, and does not afterwards leak out and 
colour the mounting medium. 

(2) After fixation the specimen is placed in the 
second bath, which consists of spirit. It was origin- 
ally recommended to employ increasing strengths 
of spirit, but equally good results are obtained by 



26 MICROSCOPIC PREPARATIONS 

placing the specimen at once into 90 per cent, spirit. 
The length of time necessary for this bath must be 
determined by the appearance of the specimen ; it 
should be removed when the original colour fully 
returns, which is usually in twenty-four to thirty-six 
hours. 

(3) Mount in jars containing : 

Glycerine 400 cc. 

Acetate of potassium ... 200 grammes. 

Water 2,000 cc. 

A few crystals of thymol or a trace of formalin 
may be added to prevent the growth of moulds. 

PREPARATION OF TISSUES FOR MICROSCOPIC 
EXAMINATION. 

Parts of an organ or tissues kept for microscopical 
examination may be examined fresh or preserved and 
hardened. 

From the examination of the fresh specimen much 
information may be gained. Smears of the fluids that 
exude from the cut surface may be made, small portions 
of the tissue may be squashed between a slide and cover- 
glass, or the material may be frozen and sections made. 
In the last case treatment in a strong solution of gum 
arabic is desirable. The details of the methods useful 
for the determination of parasites is considered with the 
description of these parasites. It is from the fresh 
specimens that cultures must be made. For this pur- 
pose the spleen and lymphatic glands are the most 
suitable places. Blood should be withdrawn by syringe 
from the unopened heart for culture-making and for 
inoculation of animals. 

Fixation and Hardening. Although formalin is com- 
monly recommended as a fixing fluid when ordinary 
tissue changes are to be demonstrated, it will be found 
in tropical practice that alcohol is the most generally 
useful reagent, as protozoal and bacterial organisms stain 



FIXATION AND HARDENING 27 

best after fixation by this method. It has the disadvan- 
tage of causing great shrinking of the tissues from rapid 
dehydration. 

To fix, the tissue should be first placed in 80 per cent, 
alcohol and in two to four hours transferred to 95 per 
cent, alcohol. The tissue must be in small cubes not 
more than half an inch in their greatest length, and 
placed in at least ten times their volume of alcohol in a 
closed glass vessel. 

If a piece of tissue is simply put into a bottle and spirit 
poured on it, the blood coagulates at the edges where in 
contact with the glass, and the fluid does not penetrate 
between the glass and tissue. This is avoided by placing 
some cotton-wool or small pieces of crumpled paper at 
the bottom of the bottle. 

In certain cases, especially where it is desirable that 
the blood should be retained in the vessels, a larger 
piece of tissue can be taken, and after partial fixation 
subdivided into pieces of the right size. This is par- 
ticularly to be recommended when the object is the 
examination of the tissue for malaria parasites or filaria 
in situ. At the end of six hours the alcohol should be 
changed, and again changed in twelve hours. By this 
time in a warm climate the specimen will be sufficiently 
fixed, and longer immersion in absolute alcohol will 
render the specimen too brittle. In colder weather, 
average temperature under 70 F., it can be left some 
hours longer in the alcohol. 

The specimens when fixed can be kept in methylated 
spirit till required. If greater accuracy is required the 
specimens can be kept in 60 per cent, absolute alcohol. 
This will keep the specimens, and stronger alcohol at 
tropical temperatures soon overhardens them. 

FORMOL ALCOHOL. For more rapid fixation of tissues 
in which examination for malaria parasites is not required, 
alcohol and formalin give excellent results. This solu- 
tion is made by the addition of formalin in the pro- 
portion of 2 to 10 per cent, to the absolute alcohol. It 



28 FIXATION AND HARDENING 

penetrates rapidly and causes less shrinking than alcohol 
alone, but the tissues should not be left in this solution 
for more than twelve hours or they will be overhardened. 
They are then fit for further processes or can be kept in 
spirit. 

MULLER'S FLUID. Pot. bichromate 2-5 parts, sodium 
sulphate i part, and water 100 parts, is very extensively 
used and gives good results, but is slow in its action. 
The fragments of the tissue are placed in abundance of 
the fluid, which should be changed in a few hours, and 
again daily for a week, after that once a week will be 
sufficient. Some tissues will be sufficiently fixed in two 
or three weeks, but others, as the parts of the central 
nervous system, may, even in a warm tropical climate, 
require many weeks. When fixation is complete the 
specimens should be washed for twenty-four hours in 
abundance of water, which is frequently changed, pre- 
ferably in running water, and then kept in methylated 
spirit. 

Animal parasites do not stain well in tissues which 
have been fixed in bichromate solutions. 

ORTH'S FLUID. Muller-formol is made by adding 10 
per cent, of formalin to Muller's fluid. This must be 
added immediately before use. It is a rapid fixative, 
and at blood heat only three or four hours are required 
for thin pieces of tissue. Two days are usually sufficient 
at room temperature. 

When hardened the tissues may be cut directly on 
the freezing microtome or passed through increasing 
strengths of alcohol and then imbedded. 

ZENKER'S FLUID. For the examination of skin, which 
is readily overhardened, Zenker's fluid gives good results. 
This is composed of 5 parts of corrosive sublimate, 2*5 
parts of potassium bichromate, i part of sodium sulphate, 
5 parts glacial acetic acid, and 100 parts of water. The 
slices of tissue to be examined must be very thin, not 
more than a tenth of an inch in thickness. The time 
required for fixation is twelve to twenty-four hours, 



IMBEDDING 29 

according to the thickness of the specimen and the 
temperature. 

After the tissues are fixed they must be thoroughly 
washed in water, which is frequently changed, for at least 
twelve hours, and should then be placed in spirit to 
which a little tincture of iodine has been added, to remove 
any mercury deposited in the tissues. If the colour of 
iodine disappears from the fluid more iodine is to be 
added until the colour no longer disappears. Or the 
specimens can be kept in spirit and the cleaning with 
iodine done after the sections are cut. The specimen 
can then be kept in spirit till required for use. 

OSMIC ACID MIXTURES. Two other useful fixatives 
are Flemmirig's solution : 

Chromic acid i per cent., aqueous solution 15 cc. 
Osmic solution 2 per cent., aqueous solution 4 cc. 

Glacial acetic acid i cc. 

and Hermann's solution, in which i per cent, solution of 
platinum chloride is substituted for the i per cent, solu- 
tion of chromic acid in Flemming's solution. 

These solutions must be freshly made up before use, 
and as the penetrating power of the fixative is low, the 
specimens must be very thin, not more than one-twelfth 
of an inch in thickness. 

Fixation takes from one to two days, and the speci- 
mens require to be thoroughly washed, preferably in 
running water, for one day, and then placed in 80 per 
cent, alcohol. 

BOILING METHOD. For the rapid fixation of tissues 
they may be placed in water that has been heated just 
to the boiling point. If small pieces of tissue are used 
a few minutes will suffice to coagulate the albumins. 
This method is also useful for the examination of renal 
casts and for the contents of cysts. 

Imbedding. The tissues having now been fixed, 
hardened and completely dehydrated, are assumed to 
be in absolute alcohol. Sections of hardened tissues 
can be cut with a razor by hand, or with a microtome 



30 IMBEDDING 

knife after fastening the specimen in the microtome 
clamp. Fair sections of firm tissues can sometimes be 
obtained in this way or by means of the freezing micro- 
tome. With these methods, however, portions of the 
tissue are likely to fall out of the sections, and it is desir- 
able to have the tissues imbedded in some material with 
which they become permeated and which preserves the 
component parts in their relative positions and surrounds 
them with a protective coating. They can then be cut 
into thin sections on a microtome. 

The two substances in common use for imbedding 
purposes are paraffin and celloidin. Paraffin imbedding 
is the most useful if very thin sections are desired. For 
certain purposes celloidin is indispensable, as when it 
is desired to keep any loose bodies in situ in a tissue, 
there being no necessity to remove the celloidin before 
mounting in Canada balsam. 

Hard tissues, and tissues which easily become brittle, 
such as muscle and skin, are cut with considerable diffi- 
culty by the paraffin method. 

(i) PARAFFIN IMBEDDING. The general principle is 
to pass the specimen through alcohol till it is thoroughly 
dehydrated, then to place it in a fluid in which paraffin 
is soluble, which will dissolve out the alcohol, and then 
to replace this fluid by first a weak solution of paraffin, 
then a strong solution of paraffin, and finally melted 
paraffin wax. Excess of paraffin is poured round the 
tissue and it is allowed to cool; when the paraffin solidifies 
not only is the piece of tissue enclosed in a solid block of 
paraffin wax but the tissues will be permeated with the 
wax. 

There are many modifications, some of which are 
rendered necessary for special tissues. 

For general work with specimens taken from strong 
spirit : 

(i) Place the specimen in absolute alcohol for 
twenty-four hours. If the specimen has been re- 
moved from weaker spirit or from water, before 



IMBEDDING 31 

placing in the absolute alcohol it should be placed 
in methylated spirit for forty-eight hours. 

(2) Remove from spirit, drain off excess of spirit 
for a few minutes and place in aniline oil. One day. 

(3) Place in xylol. One day. 

(4) Place in paraffin and xylol, equal parts. One 
day. 




FIG. 10. 



FIG. ii. 




FIG. 12. 



(5) Place in melted paraffin wax for one day. The 
paraffin wax can be kept melted in a drying oven 
(fig. 10) at the required temperature, or a paraffin 
embedding bath can be used for this purpose (fig n). 
As a considerable amount of spirit is required for 



32 RAPID PARAFFIN METHOD 

the spirit lamp to maintain the required temperature, 
it is well to imbed as many specimens as possible at 
the same time. The imbedded specimens keep well. 

(6) Imbed and cool quickly. 

The imbedding may be done by filling small paper 
boxes with melted paraffin and placing the pieces of 
tissue in this melted paraffin. The box is then placed 
in a dish of cold water on which it floats and is rapidly 
cooled, so that the paraffin sets without crystallising. 
Or L-shaped pieces of metal are placed in contact on 
a smooth slab, as in the diagram (fig. 12), and the space 
between filled with the melted paraffin and the specimens 
placed in as before. 

Modifications. The paraffin used in England melts at 
too low a temperature for satisfactory work in the Tropics. 
It is well therefore to keep two varieties of paraffin, one 
melting at 48 C. and the other at 60 C., and to use 
a mixture of them. Such a mixture with a melting 
point about 54 C. is usually sufficient, but in the warmest 
weather either a larger admixture of the paraffin at the 
higher melting point will be required, or the pure paraffin 
melting at 60 C. 

RAPID PARAFFIN IMBEDDING METHOD. For the rapid 
examination of small objects the process of imbedding 
may be shortened by the use of acetone, which hardens 
the tissues and at the same time prepares it for immersion 
in paraffin. 

(1) Fix small pieces of tissue in 10 per cent, for- 
malin for one-half to four hours. 

(2) Place in pure acetone for one-half to one and a 
half hours. 

(3) Transfer directly to fluid paraffin (52 to 
56 C.), and place in the oven for one-half to one 
and a half hours. The acetone evaporates and the 
paraffin permeates the tissues. 

(4) Prepare the paraffin block. Cut and stain as 
usual. 

The acetone may be used again by placing fired copper 
sulphate at the bottom of the vessel. 



CELLOIDIN IMBEDDING 33 

(2) CELLOIDIN IMBEDDING. Commercial celloidin 
(Sobering) is a purified gun-cotton. It is sold in granules, 
in shavings, or in flat slabs. The latter require to be cut 
into small squares before using. 

To imbed in celloidin the general principle is the same 
as that for paraffin, but the agents employed and the 
methods differ. 

(1) The specimen is kept in absolute alcohol, after 
being in weaker spirit, for twenty-four hours. 

(2) It is then soaked in a mixture of equal parts, 
of ether and absolute alcohol for twenty-four hours. 

(3) Place in a weak solution of celloidin (3 per 
cent.) in alcohol and ether for twenty-four hours or 
more ; two days is usually ample. 

(4) It is then to be transferred to a thicker celloidin 
solution, 6 per cent, celloidin dissolved in alcohol 
and ether, and kept in this for at least one day, and 
better for several days. 

(5) The specimen is then placed on a small block 
of wood, on which a few drops of the thick celloidin 
have been placed. Leave exposed to the air for a 
few minutes and pour a little thick celloidin solution 
over the specimen. Expose to air for a few minutes 
and place in 60 per cent, alcohol, which will harden 
the celloidin. In cutting celloidin specimens the 
knife must be oblique and must be moistened with 
spirit. 

Section - Cutting. For this purpose a microtome is 
required, and the greater number of those available may 
be used for either celloidin or paraffin. For cutting 
frozen sections a special instrument is necessary. 

Cathcart's microtome (fig. 13) is the simplest efficient 
freezing microtome, but in the Tropics its use is neces- 
sarily limited, as freezing with ether is not practicable 
in most tropical countries. 

Imbedded sections can be cut with this microtome, 
but must not be frozen. The carrier is heated and the 
paraffin block pressed against it. The paraffin will be 



34 SECTION-CUTTING 

melted and will then adhere to the zinc plate ; but better 
sections can be obtained with other microtomes. 

For freezing in the Tropics a mixture such as ice and 
salt is the best. 

Swift's microtome consists of a circular wooden box 
(figs. 14, 15) (A) from the centre of which rises a metal 
tube surmounted by a horizontal zinc plate raised above 




FIG. 13. MICROTOME, CATHCART'S, WITH SPRAY BELLOWS. 

the level of the top of the box. The box is covered 
with a glass plate perforated in the centre with a hole 
large enough to allow the tube and zinc plate to pass 
through. When arranged for use the box is rilled with 
a mixture of well-crushed ice and salt. The lid is placed 
on and the zinc plate projects above its level. The 



FREEZING MICROTOME 



35 



substance to be frozen is placed on the zinc plate and 
well-covered with a strong solution of gum. If the air 
temperature is not too high the specimen freezes with 
the surrounding gum. 

In many tropical countries this does not suffice unless 
the specimen is also surrounded by a cold atmosphere. 
This is produced by placing a second metal box (fig. 15) 




FIG. 14. 





FIG. 15. 



(B) on the top of the glass plate. This metal box has a 
central tube rising from the bottom and open below, 
and this tube must be wide enough to enclose the zinc 
plate and specimen. If the metal box is also filled with 
the freezing mixture the air in the central tube will be 
cold and the specimen surrounded by this cold air freezes 
readily. 

When frozen the upper metal box can be removed and 
sections cut. 



36 FREEZING MICROTOME 

In this instrument the specimen remains fixed, and 
the thickness of the section is regulated by alterations 
in the level of the razor. This is arranged by having 
.the razor blade fixed on a tripod ; the length of the legs 
of this tripod can be regulated by turning the milled 
heads of the screws. The feet of the tripod are tipped 
with bone so as to slide evenly over the glass. For 
use the blade of the razor must be wetted with water, 
and the tripod carrying it is so arranged that one leg is 
anterior. The two posterior screws are turned till the 
edge of the razor is horizontal or parallel with the sur- 
face of the glass. Any alteration in the screw of the 
anterior leg will then raise or lower the edge of the blade. 

The sections are cut by gliding the tripod over the 
plate till the edge of the razor touches the specimen and 
cuts through it. A slightly oblique motion is the best, 
and the tripod must be pressed firmly on the glass plate 
and the movements must be rapid, more like a thrust. 
The knack of making the correct movement is soon 
acquired. 

When a section is cut the tripod is drawn back, slightly 
tilting it to avoid touching the specimen, the anterior 
screw turned to an amount regulated by the thickness 
of the desired section and again thrust forward. This 
process should be repeated until there are several sections 
on the upper surface of the blade of the razor, and these 
can be removed with a camels' hair brush to a vessel con- 
taining water which has been recently boiled, so as to be 
free from air. The sections will float and can be floated 
on to a slide and either examined directly or stained. 

Sections of fresh, unfixed tissues can be cut and 
examined unstained, or, to show structure better, they 
can be stained. They should be soaked in gum before 
freezing. 

Well-fixed specimens can also be frozen and cut. It 
is necessary before freezing to thoroughly remove the 
last traces of alcohol by washing in water, and to soak 
in an aqueous solution of gum arabic for some hours,. 



PARAFFIN SECTIONS 37 

Where ice cannot be obtained further hardening and 
imbedding is necessary. 

PARAFFIN SECTIONS. Of the simpler and cheaper 
forms of microtome suitable for cutting paraffin sections, 
the Cambridge Rocker is the most convenient. 

Full directions for the use of this instrument are sent 
with the microtome, but the chief points to observe are : 




FIG. 16. CAMBRIDGE ROCKING MICROTOME, NEW PATTERN FOR 
CUTTING FLAT SECTIONS, WITH LARGE ARTICULATING APPARATUS AND 

ONE RAZOR. 

(1) That the razor must be rigidly clamped. 

(2) That the paraffin block must be firmly fixed on 
the metal carrier. This is done by heating the 
carrier and applying the paraffin block firmly to it, 
and keeping it in position till the carrier is cold. 

(3) That the thickness of section must be graduated 
in accordance with the nature of the tissue, its brittle- 
ness, and object of the section. If the specimen is 
too hard or brittle it is useless to expect thin sections. 

Sections showing large parasites, such as filaria, in tissues 
like the lung, should not be too thin. For the details of 
nerve structure, and for sections showing bacilli, or the 



38 CELLOIDIN SECTIONS 

parasites of malaria, the thinnest possible sections are the 
best. 

CELLOIDIN SECTIONS. For cutting celloidin sections 
a slide microtome, such as that of Jung, is best, but quite 
ood sections may be obtained with the Cambridge 
Rocker. A form of this instrument should be selected 
in which the razor can be placed obliquely. 

These sections are generally cut in alcohol. The sur- 
face of the celloidin block should be moistened with 
alcohol by means of a camel's hair brush. Place the 
knife so that it forms a slight angle with the block. 
Transfer the cut section to 70 per cent, alcohol with 
a brush or with the finger. 

From paraffin blocks sections 5 to 7 /j, in thickness may 
be obtained ; from celloidin blocks sections 10 to 15 \t, are 
generally cut. 

Fixation of Paraffin Sections on Slide. For ordinary 
work the sections, when cut, are placed on the surface 
of some warm water about 44 C., or rather more if 
if paraffin of a higher melting point is used, and floated 
on to a slide. The water is allowed to drain off, and the 
slide is then placed in the hot incubator for twelve to 
fifteen hours. The section will then be fixed to the slide. 

Occasionally it will be found that the sections after 
removal of the paraffin fall off. In such a case the other 
sections may be very gently warmed over a flame till the 
paraffin begins to appear more translucent. 

Another method is to employ a mixture of albumin 
and glycerine to fix the section. This mixture is pre- 
pared by beating up the white of an egg, filtering, and 
adding an equal quantity of glycerine. A crystal of 
carbolic acid or thymol may be added to prevent the 
growth of moulds. A thin film of the mixture is placed 
on a slide, and on this the dry paraffin section is arranged 
and flattened gently. As before the slides are placed in 
the hot incubator. 

Paraffin sections can be rapidly fixed by floating them 
out on a drop of water placed on the slide. The slide is 



FIXATION AND TREATMENT OF SECTIONS 39 

warmed till the section flattens out, and the water is then 
drained off and the section firmly pressed to the slide 
with a piece of blotting paper. This should leave the 
dried section closely applied to the dried slide. The slide 
is now again heated until the paraffin begins to appear 
translucent, and again firmly pressed to the slide. This 
method should not be used for delicate tissues such as 
the brain, as the firm pressure required is harmful. 

Treatment of the Sections. To remove paraffin from 
the sections so that aqueous and other stains can be 
used, the slide carrying the section should be placed 
in xylol and agitated in it for two or three minutes. 
This dissolves the paraffin. To remove the xylol place 
in strong spirit or absolute alcohol and again agitate, so 
that fresh surfaces of spirit are brought in contact with 
the section. As a precaution it is well to rinse in fresh 
spirit. The slide can then be placed in water to remove 
the spirit, and stained as is considered advisable. 

After staining, dehydrate in alcohol, clear in oil of 
cloves, wash with xylol if aniline stains are used, and 
mount in xylol Canada balsam. If the alcohol used is 
strong enough the oil of cloves need not be used. 



CHAPTER III. 
BLOOD. 

EXAMINATION of the blood is of such importance in 
tropical work that in all cases of difficulty and doubt 
recourse to this method of diagnosis is essential. A 
thorough knowledge of normal blood is a necessary pre- 
liminary. The abnormal forms of cells met with in 
various diseases must be readily recognised. Last, but 
not least, the various methods used for the finding and 
recognition of parasites must be known. Many methods 
of examining blood have been employed and most of 
them are good. Fallacies and mistakes have occurred 
with all, and the sources and causes of these errors and 
the recognition of them have to be studied. These are 
dealt with under each method described. 

Blood is composed of a nearly colourless fluid, the 
plasma, in which are floating cellular elements, the red 
and white blood corpuscles and blood-plates. The more 
solid elements, the blood corpuscles, will be considered 
first. They vary in number, in their relative proportions 
and in their characters. 

Other cells, not normally present in the blood, are 
found under certain conditions in that fluid. Most of 
these cells are normally present in the tissues of the 
healthy body, though not normally in the blood. 

Parasites occur in the red corpuscles and in the plasma, 
and are sometimes found, in a more or less disorganised 
condition, in white corpuscles or phagocytes, which have 
devoured them. None have been observed in the blood- 
plates. 



BLOOD FILMS 41 

. The two main methods employed for the examination 
of blood are : 

(1) In the fresh and fluid condition. 

(2) As films which are allowed to dry, and fixed 
and stained in various ways. 

These two methods are of general application. For 
special purposes, so as to reveal abnormal bodies scantily 
present in the blood, thick films can be made and the 
hemoglobin removed. In this way a quantity of blood 
that would not be sufficiently transparent if treated by 
the ordinary methods can be rapidly examined. 

EXAMINATION OF FRESH BLOOD. This method is the 
only one by which vital changes can be observed. Of 
the normal blood elements, the amoeboid and phagocytic 
properties of the leucocytes can thus be observed. 
Living organisms abnormally present, such as filariae, 
tryanosomes, and the parasites of malaria, can be 
watched, and such developmental and degenerative 
changes as occur in shed blood observed. 

No description or observation of new parasites is com- 
plete without an examination of these parasites in the 
living conditions. It is noteworthy that most of the 
important mistakes made even by experienced observers 
in the description of bodies met with in blood have been 
due to neglect of the examination of fresh fluid blood. 

The essential point in the preparation of fresh fluid 
blood films is that a great part of the film should be so 
thin that the blood corpuscles are lying flat and separate 
from each other. 

(i) The simplest method of making such a film is to 
take a small drop of blood on the centre of a cover-glass 
and drop it on the slide (fig. 17). In a well-made film by 
this method three zones are apparent. The edge of the 
film is thick and irregular. Here the corpuscles are in 
rolls or masses and it is too thick for the examination of 
the individual red corpuscles (fig. 17, a). 

Internally to this is an area with a slightly opaque or 
ground-glass appearance. Here the red corpuscles will 



42 FRESH FILMS 

be found lying flat and not to any great extent over- 
lapping each other. This is the part of the film best 
suited for examination of the red corpuscles and the 
parasites contained in them (fig. 17, c). 

The centre of the film is clear and transparent, and 
here few corpuscles are found, as this part is composed 
almost entirely of the plasma (fig. 17, b). 






O 
b 

FIG. 17. 



-yfb 



To get good films by this method there are certain 
points to be observed : 

(1) The slide and cover-glass must be free from 
grease, otherwise the blood will not spread out (vide 
cleaning slides and cover-glasses). 

(2) They must be freed from grit ; this is best 
done by rubbing well, immediately before use, with 
a soft linen rag. 

(3) The drop of blood must be so small that, when 
spread out, it does not extend to the edges of the 
cover-glass. If the blood is too abundant it floats 
up the cover-glass, and sufficient space is left between 
the slide and cover-glass to allow of the formation 
of rouleaux. 

(2) Another method is that of Braddon. Here the 



FRESH FILMS 



43 



cover-glass, freed from grease and grit, is placed on a 
slide similarly cleaned. The cover-glass is so placed 
that its edge corresponds with one edge of the slide. 
Pressure is exercised on the centre of the cover-glass, 
or it can be fixed with Cornet forceps. Vaseline is then 











FIG. 18. 



applied to the slide at the edges of the cover-glass, leaving 
the side applied to the edge of the slide and a small space 
at the edge opposite to this free (fig. 18). 

These slides can be prepared in the house or laboratory 
and are then ready for use. If the edge of the slide be 
applied to a drop of blood, the blood will run ^up by 



44 EXAMINATION OF FILMS 

capillary attraction and spread itself in the space between 
the cover-glass and slide in a film thin enough for 
examination. 

(3) A third method is to make the film between two 
cover-glasses, the lower one being much the longer. The 
blood spreads more readily between two cover-glasses 
than between a slide and cover-glass, and the free edge 
of the lower glass can be clamped on to the slide 
(Herder's method). Beautiful films are obtained, and 
cover-glasses can be carried in larger numbers than slides 
on account of the smaller weight, but the greater fragility 
of cover-glasses is a serious objection to the general adop- 
tion of this method. 

All of the above methods give good results. The first 
has decided advantages in that the blood elements are all 
present and, to some extent, distributed evenly through- 
out the best part of the film. The second is very con- 
venient for class work, as there is no delay at the bedside, 
and a large number of preparations can be made quickly. 
It is useful with nervous patients, as no preparation is 
necessary at the bedside. The more adhesive elements 
of the blood, the blood-plates and leucocytes, are crowded 
together near the edge where the blood has entered. In 
the thinner part of the field, which is farther from the 
edge, these elements have been " filtered out " and few 
solid elements but the red corpuscles are left. 

In the freshly drawn blood the elements normally 
present are : 

(i) Red corpuscles or erythrocytes. 
. (2) White corpuscles or leucocytes. 

(3) Blood-plates or platelets, Hayem's haemato- 
blasts. 

(4) Plasma. 

In the red corpuscles the points to note are the colour, 
the size and the shape, and variations in these. In many 
of the corpuscles, particularly if pressure has been 
applied to the cover-glass, clear, transparent spaces, 



CRENATION 



45 



vacuoles, which may be either circular, oval, or even 
slit-shaped, will be found (fig. 19 c). These must be 
recognised for what they are, and not confounded with 
unpigmented parasites nor with the natural deficiency 
in colour seen towards the centre of the corpuscles. 
From both of these the vacuoles can be distinguished 
by the sharpness of their outline. An oscillatory or 
vibratory motion of the haemoglobin edge of the vacuole 
is highly characteristic, but must not be mistaken for 
amceboid movement. 




FIG. 19. a, b, Crenated corpuscles ; c, vacuolated corpuscle ; d, e, buckled 
corpuscles. 



CRENATION. If the blood corpuscles be watched for 
some time they will be seen to become distorted and 
projections are thrown out, either as a few blunt pro- 
cesses or as sharper projections (fig. 19 a, b). This change 
is known as crenation, and the projection may be feebly 
motile and portions may break off and be discharged into 
the plasma. These crenations are readily recognised when 
they occur at the edge of the corpuscles. When they 
occur on the flat surface they produce an irregularity in 
the colouring and, as they are not flat, cause refraction, 
and so produce an appearance of dark spots surrounded 



46 LEUCOCYTES 

by a lighter ring, or a light spot surrounded by a dark 
ring, according to the focussing. 

Some of the red corpuscles, particularly if pressure has 
been used in making the film, are bent on themselves or 
"buckled" (fig. 19, d, e). Such corpuscles may assume 
very varied shapes, and, as the haemoglobin is readily 
expressed from any part of the corpuscle, compression 
irregularities in colour are usual. 

All these appearances can be easily distinguished from 
parasites by careful focussing. Occasionally, however, 
one meets with red blood cells within which are bodies 
closely simulating ring forms. These may be motionless, 
or have a slight oscillatory movement at the edge, but 
true amoeboid movement is not seen. In shape they 
may be rounded or oval, and not uncommonly appear 
to possess a central dark dot, which is probably due 
to refraction. Similar bodies described by Cropper and 
since noted by many observers in working with fresh 
blood have a marked rotary movement. They are found 
in other animals besides man, and in man and animals 
in non-tropical countries. They have never been stained 
in dried preparations and their precise nature has not 
been determined, but they are most frequently found in 
cases where there is evidence of degenerative changes in 
the blood. 

LEUCOCYTES are distinguished by their size and the 
absence of colour. As seen in the fresh blood they are 
usually granular, the granules being best seen on closing 
the iris diaphragm of the microscope. Variation in the 
granules will be noted, and the coarse, highly refracting 
granules of the eosinophile leucocytes are quite charac- 
teristic. These granules are often mistaken for pigment 
by beginners. Letting in more light, which brings out 
pigment granules more strongly and shows these normal 
granules to be translucent, will remove this difficulty. 
The characters of the nuclei and of the granules are best 
studied in stained specimens. The amoeboid movements 
and phagocytic properties are best seen in these fresh 
living fluid films. 



STAINING OF FRESH FILMS 47 

THE BLOOD PLATELETS are the most difficult objects 
to see, as they are colourless, non-granular and differ 
little in refractive index from the plasma. 

The size and arrangement in groups, points that vary 
in different specimens of blood, should be noted. The 
irregular serrated margins they acquire in a short time, 
from the formation of filaments of fibrin, are character- 
istic of these bodies. These elements are more readily 
seen in stained or over-stained specimens. 

STAINING OF FRESH FILMS. Many methods of staining 
blood, whilst still in a fluid condition, by admixture with 
stains have been employed. 

The usual practice is to place a drop of sufficiently 
dilute stain on the slide, then take a minute drop of blood 
on the cover-glass and drop this on the drop of stain, so 
that the blood and stain spread out together. A certain 
admixture takes place at the edge of the drop of blood, 
and in a little time the stain diffuses further into the 
blood. 

Various solutions of stain have been used. Braddon's 
is perhaps as good as any.* In this as well as in other 
aqueous stains, the water causes a liberation of the 
haemoglobin, and the dissolved haemoglobin precipitates 
the stain, or debris is stained by the stain. 

If this process takes place in the serum little confusion 
is caused, but if, as frequently happens, it takes place 
as the stain penetrates the red corpuscles it causes the 
formation of a complicated arrangement of stain in the 
interior of the red corpuscles, which has been mistaken 
for parasitic growth. To avoid this error, a strong salt 
solution is used by some, so that the red corpuscles are 
not destroyed. Others, for the same reason, use ascitic 
fluid. 

Malaria parasites are well stained by this method, and 



* Braddon's solution is composed of i per cent. pot. citrate, to 2 
per cent, methylene blue ; water to 100 parts. 



4 DRIED FILMS 

it has the advantage of requiring no fixation, and conse- 
quently is rapid. 

DRIED FILMS. These can be made in many ways, 
most of which after a little practice give excellent results. 
In all methods it is important that only the top of the 
drop of blood and not the skin should be touched by 
the slide, cover-glass or paper. Neglect of this precau- 
tion will result in the admixture of epithelial scales, oil 
globules and micrococci with the film. 

(i) In this method a drop of blood is taken on the 
surface of a slide near one end. The edge of another 
slide is brought into contact with this drop, which then 
spreads out so as to fill the angle between the two slides 
along the whole extent of the line of contact. On 
pushing the upper slide towards the other end of the 
lower slide a film of blood will be left behind. The 
thickness of this film is easily regulated, as if the angle 
between the two slides is acute the film left behind will 
be very thin ; if the angle be nearly a right angle a thick 
film will be left. An angle of about 45 gives the desired 
thickness, but it is well to slightly vary the thickness of 
the film by alternately slightly increasing and diminishing 
the angle made between the two slides as the upper one 
is pushed along, so that different parts of the film will be 
suitable for examination for different purposes. 

A slight modification of the method is to take up the 
drop of blood on the edge of the upper slide and bring 
the drop of blood and the edge of this slide into contact 
with the upper surface of the lower slide and proceed as 
above (fig. 20). 

(2) A drop of blood is taken on a slide rather nearer 
one end than the other, and the larger the drop the 
farther from the middle. Another slide, a glass rod, or, 
perhaps best, the shaft of a needle is then applied to this 
drop so that the blood spreads along the whole of the 
line of contact. The upper slide, glass rod, or needle is 
then drawn across the lower slide and an excellent film 
will be left (fig. 21). 



49 





FIG. 20. 




FIG. 21. 



50 DRY FILMS 

(3) Cigarette paper, or gutta-percha cut in the form of 
a narrow slip, is used in this method. The lower surface 
of the slip is brought into contact with the drop of blood 
on the finger or ear. This drop adheres to the slip on 
removal. The edge of the slip is placed on the slide and 
the blood then spreads out between the tissue paper or 
gutta-percha tissue, and on pulling the free end of the 
slip a good but usually scratchy film will be left (fig. 
22). 




FIG. 23. 

These three methods can be used for cover-glass pre- 
parations, particularly if long cover-glasses be used, but 
are best for slides. 

(4) The last method advocated is not satisfactory with 
slides but is useful for cover-glass preparations. 

A small drop of blood is taken on one cover-glass and 
this cover-glass is then applied to a second so that the 



FIXATION 51 

blood spreads out between them. The cover-glasses are 
arranged diagonally, so that the corners of each cover- 
glass can be taken hold of. The upper cover-glass is 
then drawn or slid over the lower, care being taken that 
it is not lifted off. A good film should be left on each 
cover-glass (fig. 23). 

In case of emergency any piece of flat glass, broken 
window-pane, &c., can be used and good films obtained, 
but the best films are those in which the slides are of 
good quality, even in thickness and free from scratches, 
dirt, grease, or irregularities. 

The films, however made, should be dried rapidly by 
waving them to and fro in the air, but not heated ; other- 
wise crenation and distortion of the corpuscles will take 
place. 

Fixation. If such films were placed in water or 
aqueous solutions of stains the haemoglobin would be 
dissolved out, and the corpuscles more or less destroyed ; 
it is therefore necessary to fix the films. 

Films can be fixed by heat, but a temperature above 
a certain point vacuolates and distorts the red corpuscles. 

As a general rule in blood work, fixation by heat should 
be avoided, though for one method of staining the 
Ehrlich-Biondi fixation by heat is necessary. Good 
results are more difficult to obtain in the Tropics by this 
method than in England, and, as the same information 
can be obtained by easier methods, it is not recommended 
for tropical work. 

Fixation by absolute alcohol, or by absolute alcohol 
and ether in equal proportions, gives good and reliable 
results. Fix for ten minutes or more and then dry in air. 

There are other methods of fixation, and of these ex- 
posure of the film to the vapour of 40 per cent, formalde- 
hyde (formalin) for two minutes is perhaps the best. 

Saturated solution of perchloride of mercury does not 
give good results with films of malarial blood, as the 
parasites do not stain well after the use of this reagent, 
but for other blood work the results are fairly satisfactory. 



52 STAINING OF FILMS 

Staining of Dried Films. When fixed the film can 
be stained, and the number of stains that have been 
employed is very large. Of the methods most generally 
applicable, the following have the special advantages and 
drawbacks indicated. Often two or more methods can 
be employed with advantage on different slides, in order 
to bring out special features in the blood. 

H^MATOXYLIN. Any good haematoxylin stain will 
stain most of the basic elements in the blood and most 
of the parasites. The number of preparations used is 
large. The formula recommended is composed of a mix- 
ture of 

Haematin 2.5 grammes. 

Absolute alcohol 50 cc. 

Alum 50 grammes or to 

saturation. 

Water 1,000 cc. 

The haematin is dissolved in the alcohol and added to 
the solution of alum in water. 

In warm weather this stain matures rapidly, two or 
three weeks being sufficient. When mature the sides of 
the vessel containing the mixture are deeply stained. 
Like all other haemtoxylin stains, it must be tested before 
use to find the time required for staining. When properly 
mature this preparation requires about seven to ten 
minutes to stain blood well. It need not be filtered im- 
mediately before use. The stain may be placed over the 
film, or the slide with the film on it may be immersed in 
a pot of the stain, which should be well shaken before 
use. 

If the stain is placed on the slide do not pour off the 
stain, but flush it off. If well flushed, even when a dirty 
stain is used, little deposit will be left on the film. If 
the stain be poured off, however much the slide is then 
flushed or washed, dirt from the stain will adhere to the 
film. After flushing off the stain leave in ordinary tap 
water for five minutes. Drain and allow to dry. 

As a counter-stain eosin is useful. An aqueous i per 



RED CORPUSCLES 53 

cent, solution of yellow eosin (soluble in alcohol) is used. 
It will stain in twenty to thirty seconds ; then wash and 
allow to dry. A film so prepared is in a fit condition for 
examination with an oil immersion lens. The oil can be 
placed directly on the films, but if it is intended to keep 
the film, it is simpler to mount in xylol balsam and then 
examine. Plate I. shows the appearances of the blood- 
cells stained in this manner. 

RED CORPUSCLES. The red corpuscles are stained by 
the eosin, the depth of the colour varying according to 
the richness of the corpuscles in haemoglobin. As in 
fresh blood, the size, depth of colour and shape of the 
red corpuscle should be observed. Among the rarer 
forms in normal blood are red corpuscles which hardly 
stain with eosin, the shadow or ghost corpuscles, poly- 
chromatic corpuscles, which are faintly stained with both 
stains, so as to have a purplish colour (Plate I., 10), and 
red corpuscles containing granules which stain deeply 
with the basic stain used, haematoxylin. The last-named 
cells are described as containing basophilic granules 
(Plate I., 9). Nucleated red corpuscles are very rarely 
present in the blood of healthy individuals, but are found 
not only in blood of patients markedly anaemic but also 
in some cases of malaria, &c. The nucleated red cor- 
puscles have a nucleus staining deeply, but not evenly, 
with haematoxylin (Plate I., 3 and 4). They have a 
sharply defined margin. Not unfrequently the nucleated 
red corpuscle itself is polychromatic, or contains baso- 
philic granules. Such nucleated red corpuscles may be 
larger (megaloblasts), smaller (microblasts), or the same 
size (normoblasts), as the normal. 

THE BLOOD PLATELETS are stained feebly with both 
stains and have a uniform faint purple colour. In an 
overstained specimen the network of fibrin filaments, 
starting from either a single plate or a group, is plainly 
brought out, but in a normally stained specimen only the 
platelets and the bases of these filaments are revealed 
(Plate I., 5). 



54 



WHITE CORPUSCLES 



WHITE CORPUSCLES. The leucocytes have their nuclei 
stained deep blue. The protoplasm is stained differently 
in the different varieties of leucocytes, but granules, with 
the exception of those staining deeply with eosin, are 
not brought out by this method. They are, however, 
visible in the unstained leucocytes and can be demon- 
strated by other stains. 



i D 




FIG. 24. a, Lymphocytes; b, large mononuclear leucocytes ; c, transitional 
leucocyte ; d, polymorphonuclear leucocytes ; e, eosinophile leucocytes. 

In normal blood four varieties of white corpuscles can 
be differentiated. Of these two have a single, more or 
less rounded, nucleus. These mononuclear leucocytes 
are of two classes, though it is not always easy to say 



WHITE CORPUSCLES 55 

to which class a given mononuclear leucocyte belongs. 
Still, with practice the number of doubtful instances 
greatly diminishes. The points to be considered in the 
differentiation are the size of the corpuscle, the shape 
and staining reactions of the nucleus, the stain taken up 
by the protoplasm, and the relative amount of protoplasm 
as compared with the nucleus. 

(1) The small mononuclear leucocyte, or LYMPHOCYTE, 
is usually not much larger than a red corpuscle and varies 
from 7 //, to 12 //,. The nucleus stains deeply and forms 
the grjsater part of the corpuscle. The protoplasm is 
often reduced to a mere rim, and in any case is relatively 
scanty in proportion to the size of the nucleus (fig. 24, a). 
The protoplasm is stained faintly pink, much the same 
as the protoplasm in the polymorphonuclear leucocyte 
(Plate I., ii). 

(2) THE LARGE MONONUCLEAR LEUCOCYTES (fig. 24, 6), 
sometimes called the hyaline cells, are variable in size, 
but some of them form the largest white elements in 
normal blood. The nucleus is not so deeply stained 
as in the lymphocyte. The protoplasm is relatively 
abundant and stains slightly with basic stains. It may 
be unstained or faint blue, or, if pink, is less so than 
the polymorphonuclear leucocyte. 

All these points have to be taken into account in the 
separation of these leucocytes (Plate I., 12). 

Some corpuscles are found with the nuclei deeply in- 
dented, or horse-shoe shaped. In staining reactions they 
resemble the large mononuclear and are probably ad- 
vanced forms of these, and not, as usually described, 
transitional forms between these and the polymorpho- 
nuclear leucocytes (fig. 24, c). 

The other two classes of leucocytes are much easier to 
distinguish. 

(3) THE POLYMORPHONUCLEAR LEUCOCYTES (fig. 24, d), 
sometimes incorrectly called polynuclear, form the greater 
number of the leucocytes. They are rounded cells, which 
are granular in the fresh blood, but the granules are not 



56 WHITE CORPUSCLES 

stained by the method we are now discussing. The 
characteristic of these cells is the variety in form of the 
nucleus. The nucleus stains deeply with the haema- 
toxylin, and at first sight appears to be multiple. Closer 
examination shows that the different parts of the nucleus 
are really connected together, though often by a mere 
string or filament. 

The form in dried uncompressed specimens is round, 
the size fairly uniform, and the protoplasm stains a faint 
pink (Plate I., 13). 

(4) THE EOSINOPHILE LEUCOCYTES. The fourth 
variety has a deep indented nucleus, sometimes divided 
into three. The nucleus does not stain so deeply with 
haematoxylin as in the polymorphonuclear leucocytes, 
but the characteristic of this leucocyte is the presence of 
a large number of coarse granules which stain deeply 
with eosin. Hence these leucocytes are called cosinophilc 
(Plate I., 14). This leucocyte is more loosely held together 
than any other, and it is no uncommon event for one 
to be ruptured in making the film, so that the nucleus 
is seen surrounded by a cloud of granules stained with 
eosin (fig. 24, e). 

Relative Proportions. These four varieties of leucocytes 
are all present in normal blood, but in relative numbers 
varying within comparatively small limits. The variations 
in appearance are shown in fig. 24. 

The normal proportions are given variously as : 
Lymphocytes ... ... 10-25 per cent. 

Large mononuclear 5-10 ,, 

Polymorphonuclear 65-75 ,, 

Eosinophiles ... 2-4 ,, 

It will be seen that the lymphocytes are the most 
variable elements and, in an individual, may vary during 
the same day from hour to hour, according to the stage 
of digestion. 

In many diseases, and for some time after these 
diseases, there is a marked variation in the relative pro- 



DIFFERENTIAL COUNTS 57 

portions of these blood elements. A most important 
variation is that which occurs during, and still more 
markedly after, a malarial attack. The leucocytic varia- 
tion, characteristic of malaria, is a relative increase in the 
number of large mononuclear elements, so that they may 
constitute 20 per cent, or more of the leucocytes found. 
The increase appears to be constant and it is rarely less 
than 20 per cent. It may be much greater, so that they 
may constitute 40 per cent, or even more of the total 
leucocytes. 

It occurs in all forms of malaria and persists after all 
other signs or symptoms of malaria have disappeared. 
It is found sometimes three months or more after an 
attack and rarely disappears, or even diminishes, in a 
month. It is not affected by quinine. 

This variation is occasionally, but rarely, found in 
typhoid and Malta fever and in other conditions, but in 
these diseases it is not persistent. In trypanosomiasis 
and kala-azar it appears to be constant, but is less marked 
than in malaria and is associated with an increase in the 
lymphocytes. 

The total number of leucocytes is not increased, and 
there is a decrease in the total number of leucocytes in 
malaria during the febrile period. According to Vincent 
there is a period immediately after the paroxysm begins 
during which there is an increase in the number of 
leucocytes. 

A relative increase in the polymorphonuclear elements 
occurs in pneumonia and in many septic conditions, 
particularly when deep-seated abscesses form, such as 
in perityphlitic or hepatic abscess. In such cases there 
is also an absolute increase in the number of leucocytes. 
A differential leucocyte count is therefore an important 
aid in distinguishing these diseases from malaria, which 
they may resemble clinically. 

Increase in the relative proportion of eosinophiles 
occurs from many causes, some of which are unknown. 
It is marked in most cases of anaemia from ankylos- 



58 DIFFERENTIAL COUNTS 

tomiasis, and occurs also in many cases of filariasis and 
in some cases of bilharzia infection, and is said to be 
constant in trichinosis. The blood examination may 
often give a hint as to the presence of some of these 
parasites. As the increase occurs also from unknown 
causes, and in some skin diseases, in itself it is of no 
certain diagnostic value. 

The proportion of lymphocytes is so variable that only 
an enormous increase is of importance. This occurs in 
some cases of scurvy and is associated with an increase 
in the other mononuclear elements. 

A differential leucocyte count must not be confused 
with an actual enumeration of the number of leucocytes 
present in a given volume of blood. That has to be 
determined separately, as we shall see subsequently. To 
make a differential count of the leucocytes a dried film 
of a small but uncertain volume of blood is prepared and 
stained. All the leucocytes found in a systematic 
examination of a part of this film are counted and the 
percentage of each different variety met with is thus 
ascertained. For accurate work not less than 500 should 
be counted, but for clinical purposes 200 will often 
suffice. The edges of the film where leucocytes are most 
numerous should not be included in the enumeration. 
(Vide tables in appendix for variations in diseases.) 

ABNORMAL CELLS. Abnormal elements resembling 
leucocytes are present in certain diseases, particularly 
in leucocythaemia. These abnormal elements are known 
as MYELOCYTES from their similarity to cells found 
normally in the bone-marrow (fig. 25). They are of 
three kinds, all mononuclear. 

(i) The first form is variable in size, the greater 
number of them being much larger than the large mono- 
nuclear leucocytes. With eosin and haematoxylin, as 
the granules which they contain are not stained, it is 
sometimes difficult to distinguish the smaller ones from 
the larger of the mononuclear leucocytes. For practical 
purposes the difficulty is unimportant, as when myelo- 



MYELOCYTES 



59 



cytes occur they are common and most of them are 
readily distinguished from the leucocytes. 

In these myelocytes the nucleus stains less readily and 
is therefore paler than that of the large mononuclear 
leucocytes. The edge of the nucleus is frequently ragged. 
The protoplasm is abundant and stains in many cases 
more deeply with eosin than the large mononuclear 
leucocytes do. Mitotic figures are often met with. 

(2 and 3) The other two forms of myelocytes contain 
granules which stain deeply with eosin. They are sub- 
divided according to the size of these granules, which 
may be coarse, as in the eosinophile leucocytes, or fine. 





FIG. 25. 



The distinction is probably unimportant. These myelo- 
cytes are distinguished at once from eosinophile leucocytes 
by the single nucleus, and from each other by the size 
of the eosinophile granules (Plate I., 15, 16, 17). 

These cells are the abnormal cellular constituents that 
may be met with in blood specimens stained with eosin 
and haematoxylin, and they must be clearly recognised 
before any satisfactory examination for parasites can 
be made. In themselves they are of considerable im- 
portance in the recognition of various diseases and for 
prognosis. 

In pernicious anaemia and in chlorosis the changes 
in the red corpuscles, the irregularity in their size, shape, 
and colouring are of clinical value, and in most tropical 
anaemias, including that occurring in malaria, the changes 



60 MYELOCYTES 

are similar to those in a mild case of pernicious 
anaemia.* 

Leucocythaamia is readily recognised by the enormous 
increase in the number of the white elements which, as 
we have seen, take on basic stains. This increase is so 
great that the appearance of a dried film indicates it 
unmistakably, and it is not, for diagnostic purposes, 
necessary to make any count. The presence in numbers 
of the eosinophile myelocytes is conclusive proof of the 
implication of the bone-marrow, whilst the absence of 
this form of abnormal cell indicates more probably a 
lymphatic leucocythsemia. 

In all forms of leucocythaemia decided changes are also 
found in the red corpuscles. Irregularities in size, shape 
and depth of colour are common, and nucleated red 
blood corpuscles occur, often in. large numbers. Poly- 
chromatic red corpuscles and red corpuscles showing 
basophilic granules are also common. 

If no abnormal cells are present the relative propor- 
tions of the normal cells may be so changed that we can 
diagnose with some degree of probability septic processes, 
recent malaria, or helminthiasis. 

Eosin and haematoxylin can be used for staining any of 
the parasites found in blood. The stains are easily prepared, 
keep well, and their use is not dependent on distilled water 
or appliances which are not obtainable everywhere. 

It is not a very brilliant stain, and therefore other 
stains giving more marked contrast are for some purposes 
preferable. It does not stain the granules present in 
many of the white elements of the blood, and though 
of general application, other stains are of greater value 
for special purposes and have special advantages. 

* Between these two forms of anaemia the main difference 
observed in blood examination is that in chlorosis the number of 
corpuscles is not diminished, but the haemoglobin is, so that each 
corpuscle is poor in haemoglobin. In pernicious anosmia there is 
a great diminution in the number of corpuscles, but the haemoglobin 
value of the corpuscles averages much the same as normal blood. 
Mixed or intermediate cases occur. 



DOUBLE STAINS 6 1 

DOUBLE STAINS. Combinations of methylene blue 
and eosin dissolved in methyl alcohol are much used. 
The first is the Louis JENNER stain. It is made by 
adding an eosin aqueous solution to one of methylene 
blue. The stains combine and form a precipitate which 
is collected in a filter, dried and dissolved in methylic 
alcohol. 

This stain can only be used with films that have not 
been fixed. The methylic alcohol does all the fixing 
required. Films fixed in methylic alcohol do not stain 
satisfactorily. Distilled water is also an essential. 

The stain may be placed on the film, slide or cover- 
glass for three and a half to four minutes, or, and this is 
better, the slide or cover-glass can be placed in the stain 
in a well-stoppered bottle for the same length of time. 
The time must be kept accurately, carelessness in this 
respect leading to poor results. The stain must be 
flushed off with distilled water, and it is better to allow 
the distilled water to stand on the film for half a minute 
after washing. The water can then be drained or blotted 
off, the film allowed to dry, and the specimen examined 
directly with the oil immersion. When it is considered 
desirable to keep the specimen a drop of xylol balsam 
should be placed on the film and covered with a cover- 
glass. 

With this stain the red blood corpuscles are stained 
pink, the depth of colour varying with the amount of 
haemoglobin which the corpuscles contain (Plate III., i). 

The nuclei of the leucocytes are stained a clear blue, 
the eosinophile granules are stained deep red, and the 
granules in the polymorphonuclear leucocytes, which it 
will be remembered are not stained with eosin and hae- 
matoxylin, are brought out as fine dull-reddish granules. 

Basophilic granules contained in cells are stained blue, 
this occurs both in white cells and in some red corpuscles. 
This stain is a good stain for many parasites, particularly 
those of malaria. Bacilli and cocci are also stained blue. 

Some specimens of the Louis Jenner stain bring out 



62 LEISHMAN'S STAIN 

the special stain of the important constituent of nuclei 
known as chromatin. A modification of the method 
and of the methylene blue is required to bring out the 
chromatin with certainty. Many methods have been 
employed for this purpose, most of them modifications 
of Romanowsky's method. 

LEISHMAN'S STAIN. The simplest, the most rapid, and 
on the whole most satisfactory of these methods is that 
introduced by Leishman. A saturated solution of 
methylene blue, preferably " Hochst's pure medicinal," 
is made. This solution has to be rendered polychrome 
so that in addition to the pure blue colour of the ordinary 
methylene blue it is in part changed into a red stain. The 
change is indicated by a change in colour of the solution, 
so that in thin layers it has a reddish tinge. The solution 
of methylene blue becomes to some extent polychrome 
when exposed to air for some months, but for practical 
purposes a quicker transformation is required. There 
are many methods. Repeated heating in a steriliser 
accelerates the change. Leishman uses a i per cent, 
solution of methylene blue (Griibler's), and adds 5 per 
cent, sodium carbonate to it. This solution he keeps 
at a temperature of 65 C. for twelve hours, and then 
exposes to air for a week or more. 

J. H. Wright adds to a J per cent, solution of sodium 
bicarbonate i per cent, of methylene blue (Griibler's 
B. X., Koch's or Ehrlich's rectified). This solution is 
steamed in a steam steriliser for one hour to effect 
the required transformation, and the solution may be 
used as soon as it is cold without filtering. 

A convenient method, and more suitable where steam 
sterilisers are not available, is to treat the saturated solu- 
tion of methylene blue with freshly precipitated oxide 
of silver. A solution of sodium hydrate is added to a 
solution of nitrate of silver till no more precipitate forms. 
The precipitate is washed till the washings are neutral 
to litmus paper. The precipitate, oxide of silver, is 
added to the saturated solution of methylene blue, and 



LEISHMAN'S STAIN 63 

it is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours or more. A 
considerable proportion of the methylene blue in solu- 
tion will be converted into polychrome methylene blue. 
The superjacent solution should be decanted off from 
the precipitated silver salts and filtered before use. It 
improves with keeping. 

Whatever method be adopted for rendering the methy- 
lene blue polychrome the subsequent proceedings are 
the same. 

One hundred cc. of this solution of polychrome methy- 
lene blue are placed in a large shallow vessel (a half- 
plate photographic tray is a suitable one), and then a 
i in 1,000 eosin aqueous solution is added till a thick 
film forms on the surface and the fluid shows the colour 
of the eosin. About 400 cc. or a little more will be 
required, but the change in colour is the guide. The 
mixture should be well stirred and then allowed to 
stand exposed freely to air for some hours, stirring 
occasionally, and afterwards filtered. The residue in the 
filter is composed of the stain. It should be well washed 
with distilled water till the washing has only a faint bluish 
tinge, and then thoroughly dried, preferably in an incu- 
bator at blood heat. The stain must be finely powdered 
before use. 

Two centigrammes of the powder can then be dissolved 
in 100 cc. of pure methyl alcohol, and the stain is ready 
for use. It is, perhaps, more convenient to make a 
saturated solution of the stain in methyl alcohol, filter 
in the cold, and dilute with one-tenth of its bulk of 
methyl alcohol, so that a solution is made which is not 
quite saturated. The " tabloids " of this stain, Leishman's 
stain, keep well and give excellent results. It is cleaner 
than the home-made stain, but the preparations do not 
keep so well. 

To Use the Stain. With a pipette two or three drops 
of the stain are placed on the dried unfixed blood film 
on slide or cover-glass, and allowed to stand on it for 
half to one minute. If it shows any tendency to dry 



6 4 

over any parts of the film in this period fresh stain 
must be added. To the fluid stain on the slide at the 
expiration of this half or one minute distilled water 
must be added drop by drop, and by oscillating the slide 
the stain and water are mixed as rapidly as possible. 
The amount of water required should be about double 
that of stain, but a better guide is to add the water 
in such an amount that when mixed with the stain the 
dark blue colour of the latter is replaced by a pinkish 
colour in the mixture, whilst the precipitated stain can 
be seen floating in the fluid. With a little practice 
the right amount of water required in each case is easily 
found, and slight variations from exactitude are not 
of great importance. The water mixed with the stain 
should be allowed to remain on the film for five minutes, 
or with old or thick films for a longer period. It is quite 
easy to watch the staining under a low power on the 
microscope, and the staining of the leucocytes is the best 
guide. 

The stain is then flushed off with distilled water, and 
a drop of distilled water is allowed to remain on the 
film for about one minute. A certain amount of the 
blue is dissolved, and the red corpuscles acquire a clearer 
red colour. This clearing with distilled water is essential 
to obtain good results. The more deeply the specimen 
is stained the longer will be the time required for clearing. 
This stage of the process is watched under the micro- 
scope and stopped when the clearing is sufficient. The 
water is then washed off rapidly with distilled water, the 
specimen drained or blotted and allowed to dry. Mount 
in xylol balsam and examine. 

The principle of all modifications of the Romanowsky 
stain for chromatin is that the staining takes place during 
the precipitation of the stain, in the original processes 
during the precipitation of the mixture of aqueous solu- 
tions of the stains, and in Leishman's method during the 
precipitation by water of the combined stains dissolved 
in methyl alcohol. 



GIEMSA'S METHOD 65 

Absolute alcohol with 2 per cent aniline oil can be 
used as the solvent instead of methyl alcohol, and the 
solution treated as Leishman treats the methyl alcohol 
solution. The results are not so good as with methyl 
alcohol for a solvent, but are very fair. It is not to be 
recommended except where methyl alcohol cannot be 
obtained : the time for all the stages of the process 
should be doubled if this solvent be employed. 

Other modifications can be used for films fixed in 
alcohol. 

In the first of these staining takes place during the 
admixture and mutual precipitation of the eosin and 
polychrome methylene blue. A i per cent, solution of 
pure medicinal methylene blue (Griibler's) is made in 
distilled water and | per cent, sodium carbonate added. 
This solution keeps well and is fit for use when a reddish 
tinge appears. This change is expedited by keeping in 
an incubator. A second solution is a I in 1,000 solution 
of eosin extra B.A. (Griibler). This is fit for use at once, 
and keeps well if not exposed to light. 

These are stock solutions, and should be diluted with 
twenty-four parts of pure water before use. The solutions 
are rapidly mixed and stirred, and the slips or covers are 
placed with the film side downward in the mixture. The 
dish should be rocked from time to time, and the films 
left in the stains for half an hour or more till well soaked. 
This is tested by examination of the slide whilst still wet 
under a low power. 

The specimen should then be washed in distilled water, 
rapidly dried, and examined again under a low power. 
If too deeply stained a little distilled water may be left 
on the slide to clear it for a minute or more. Blot off 
the water, dry in the air and examine directly, or after 
mounting in Canada balsam. 

GIEMSA'S METHOD. This is another modification use- 
ful for fixed films where intense basic staining is required, 
and also for the restoration of faded preparations. 

The staining mixture consists of : 

5 



66 BLOOD PLATELETS 

Azur ii., eosin ... ... ... "3 gramme. 

Azurii. -8 

Glycerine (Merck, chemically pure) 250 grammes. 
Methyl alcohol (Kahlbaum i.) ... 250 ,, 

Immediately before use the stain is diluted with distilled 
water, i of stain to 15 of distilled water. 

The films are fixed in methylic alcohol for two to three 
minutes, or in absolute alcohol for five minutes. 

The diluted stain is poured on the films, and left from 
fifteen or thirty minutes, or for deep staining up to 
twenty-four hours. 

The films are then flushed with a strong jet of tap 
water, dried in the air, and mounted in Canada balsam. 

In specimens of blood stained by Romanowsky's 
method and its modifications, there are several distinct 
colours to be observed (Plates III. and IV.). 

CHROMATIN is stained red. Other elements taking basic 
stains are mostly stained blue in various shades, and the 
red corpuscles are stained a peculiar pale pink with the 
eosin. Some granules, as those in the so-called " mast 
cells," are said to be metachromatic, as, though they stain 
deeply, the colour is different to that of the stain used 
(Plate III., 7). 

Polychromatic red corpuscles are stained purple and 
basophilic granules are well brought out as blue dots. 
The nuclei of nucleated red blood corpuscles are found 
to be rich in chromatin, and consequently the nuclei 
are stained a deep violet-purple. 

In corpuscles invaded by certain parasites, viz., those 
of human benign tertian, granules or dots staining red 
are found. In amphibian blood corpuscles invaded by 
one species of drepanidium, similar granules occur. 
These granules are known as Schuffner's dots, and 
indicate a peculiar form of degeneration (Plate III., 21, 
and Plate IV., 7, 8, 9). 

THE BLOOD PLATELETS are stained faint blue, with 
numerous red particles which sometimes form a mesh- 
work. These particles are deeply stained and render 
the platelets very conspicuous (Plate III., 2). 



WHITE CELLS 6/ 

THE LEUCOCYTES, with the exception of the eosino- 
phile, are well stained, but in many specimens the eosino- 
phile granules do not show a clear red. The large size 
of the granules is shown, and there is no real difficulty 
even in a badly stained specimen in recognising these 
elements. They do not, however, form as conspicuous 
objects as in specimens stained by Louis Jenner's stain. 

The nuclei of the polymorphonuclear leucocytes stain 
purple. The staining is not regular but in patches. The 
protoplasm contains minute granules, usually in very 
large numbers, staining brownish-red. The protoplasm 
itself is very faintly stained. 

THE LARGE MONONUCLEAR LEUCOCYTES. The nuclei 
stain faintly purple. The staining is not uniform, but 
usually presents a faint mottled appearance. The proto- 
plasm stains a faint blue, and imbedded in it are granules, 
which may be coarse or fine, and stain a deep clear red 
(Plate III., 4). 

THE LYMPHOCYTES. The nuclei stain a deep purple 
from the large amount of chromatin contained. The 
staining is more uniform than in most of the leucocytes. 
The protoplasm is stained deep blue, is nearly uniform, 
and has no granules staining a different colour (Plate 

HI, 3). 

MAST CELLS. The nuclei are stained very faintly, and 
when the basophilic granules are numerous are difficult 
to make out. The granules in the protoplasm form 
large and irregular masses, and stain a deep purple- 
brown (metachromatic) (Plate III., 7). 

MYELOCYTES have in most cases a rather feebly stain- 
ing nucleus, poor in chromatin. The nuclei are large, 
but the relative amount of protoplasm varies greatly, 
in many cases a mere rim only of protoplasm is found 
(Plate III., 9). 

Granules taking either the acid or basic stain, or both, 
are present in most of the cells, sometimes in small, but 
more commonly in large numbers. Sometimes two, or 
even three, classes of granules are present in the one cell 
(Plate III., 10 to 13). 



68 CELL GRANULES 

A detailed classification of these abnormal cells would 
be very difficult, as intermediate forms abound. 

Amongst these cells are a small number with a large 
nucleus richer in chromatin than most of the myelocytes, 
and a rim of protoplasm staining a deep blue. These 
are not unlike the large cells found in a case of trypano- 
somiasis and in other ill-determined blood conditions, 
but in those the protoplasm is, relatively to the nucleus, 
in larger amount (Plate III., 9). 

The true myelocytes include the eosinophile myelo- 
cytes, but in these there is, in most cases, some admixture 
of neutrophile or basophile granules, as shown by this 
stain. 

The main classes of granules revealed by Leishman's 
stain are pure oxyphile or eosinophile staining pink, 
basophile staining blue, and neutrophile, which take up 
both acid and basic stains, including in some instances 
the red modification of the methylene blue, and meta- 
chromatic granules. According to the relative proportions 
of the three stains, these granules may present a range of 
colours from blue to red, or to a purple-brown, and also 
differ in the intensity of the staining and in the size of the 
granules. Too little is known of the micro-chemistry of 
such cells, or in detail of their origin, for the meaning 
and value of the different granules found to be of much 
practical importance at present. 



6 9 



CHAPTER IV. 

ANIMAL PARASITES FOUND IN BLOOD. Of the four 
great divisions of the protozoa, representatives of the 
sporozoa and mastigophora only are found in human 
blood. 

To the SPOROZOA belong the parasites which cause 
malaria in man. These are found in the red blood 
corpuscles. 

The MASTIGOPHORA (flagellate organisms) are repre- 
sented by trypanosomes, which are found in the blood 
plasma. 

Belonging to the higher animal kingdom are TRE- 
MATODA, of which the Schistosomum hcematobium and 
S. japonicum are found in certain blood-vessels, and 
NEMATODA, represented by the filaria and filarial embryos, 
or micro-filaria. Sexually mature forms are found in the 
blood in lower animals. 

EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD FOR PROTOZOA. An 
essential feature of the examination consists in the 
examination of the fluid blood as soon as possible after 
its removal from the body. Many of the parasites exist 
in the red blood corpuscles, so that the film must be 
so thin that in a great part of it the red corpuscles 
are all lying flat and separate from each other. The 
method of making such thin fluid films, already de- 
scribed, must be strictly adhered to. It is often urged 
that examinations of stained films are more convenient 
and better, but it cannot be insisted upon too strongly 
that most of the important errors which have occurred 
have been due to the exclusive use of stained specimens, 
and also that the phenomena of life can only be satis- 
factorily observed in the fluid blood. These include 



70 PROTOZOA IN DRIED FILMS 

some points of diagnostic value, namely, the character 
and movements of pigment, the activity of amoeboid 
movement and the formation of flagella. 

Stained films have their value, and show more clearly 
some points in the structure of the parasites. In busy 
practice it is often more convenient to defer for some 
hours the examination of the films, and in such cases 
stained specimens are more useful. In any case of 
difficulty, or when dealing with a parasite believed to be 
new, both methods should be employed. 

Dried films can be made by any of the methods already 
described, and the parasites stained by the methods 
recommended. The films deteriorate when kept, and 
should therefore be examined as early as convenient, 
though a delay of a few days is not of much importance. 

Other methods can be adopted if only the presence 
or absence of parasites has to be determined. 

The methods generally used can be divided into three 
groups : 

A. Those in which preliminary fixation is required 
before staining. 

B. Those in which fixation and staining are 
effected together. 

C. Those in which preliminary fixation is avoided. 

A. Films are fixed by immersion in alcohol or in 
alcohol and ether. 

(1) H^EMATOXYLIN alone, or H^MATOXYLIN and EOSIN. 
These stains can be used as already described, but better 
results are obtained by doubling the time for staining 
with haematoxylin. 

(2) BORAX METHYLENE BLUE. This stain is com- 
posed of methylene blue 2 grammes, borax 5 grammes, 
and water 100 cc. 

Place a few drops of the stain on the dried and fixed 
film and leave it for thirty seconds. Wash well with 
water, allow to dry, and examine directly, or mount in 
xylol balsam. 

It is very easy to overstain by this method, and in such 



STAINING METHODS 71 

a case the red corpuscles will also be stained a deep blue 
and the parasites will not stand out clearly. 

This stain is most rapid in its action, and on account 
of the risk of over-staining some authorities dilute it with 
one, two, or three times the volume of water. The stain 
keeps well. 

(3) CARBOL THIONIN. A stock solution of thionin 
i grammes, alcohol 10 cc., and i in 20 aqueous carbolic 
acid solution to 100 cc. is made. This stock solution 
keeps well, but is too strong to use for films. Before 
use it should be diluted with three parts of water. This 
diluted solution does not keep for more than a few days. 
For use, cover the film and leave the stain on for five 
minutes or more. It does not easily over-stain, so that 
only the minimum time need be remembered ; still, to 
get good results, half an hour is about the limit. Flush 
off the stain, allow to dry, and examine directly, or mount 
in Canada balsam. 

It is a good, clear, transparent basic stain and gives a 
very fair contrast. Bacteria, as well as animal parasites, 
are well stained, and it is one of the best stains for the 
demonstration of parasites in tissues. 

(4) TOLUIDIN BLUE is a stain which has some points 
of resemblance to thionin. The stain is best kept as a 
saturated alcoholic solution, and diluted for use with 
twenty parts of i in 80 aqueous solution of carbolic acid. 
The fixed film should be covered with the stain and left 
for ten minutes or more. It is difficult to over-stain, and 
good results are obtained even if the film be left in the 
stain for twenty-four hours. This is an advantage, as the 
specimens can be left to stain whilst other occupations 
are pursued. The main advantage of the stain is that 
the pigment is less obscured than in specimens stained 
by carbol thionin. 

If blood examinations are frequently required, it is well 
to keep the stains in a wide-necked stoppered bottle, and 
simply place the slide in the stain for the time required 
instead of putting the stain on the slide. Many of the 



72 LEISHMAN'S STAIN 

stains form films on the surface, and if this film of stain 
comes into contact with the blood film it will adhere to 
it. The bottle of stain should be shaken vigorously 
before use. The fixing agent can be kept in the same 
way (fig. 26). 

Giemsa's stain also gives good results with films fixed 
in alcohol, but better results are obtained if methylic 
alcohol is used for fination. 




FIG. 26. 



B. Staining solution also fixes. These methods 
include the use of Louis Jenner's stain and the stain 
used in Leishman's modification of the Romanowsky 
method, as in both of these the methyl alcohol fixes 
the film. The method of using these stains for the 
examination of normal blood has been already described. 
It suffices for the demonstration of all protozoa. The 
stains, particularly Leishman's, give most brilliant results, 
and show more points in the structure of parasites than 
any other method. The disadvantages are : (i) The 



DEH.EMOGLOBINISED FILMS 73 

necessity of having distilled water, though where the 
rainfall is heavy and away from the sea rain-water can 
often be used ; (2) methyl alcohol is very volatile ; (3) 
the stains, under circumstances not thoroughly under- 
stood, seem to lose their strength in the Tropics, and 
consequently are not so universally reliable as the simpler 
stains first described. 

Louis Jenner's stain in particular is unreliable, and 
seems to deteriorate either when kept in the solid con- 
dition or when dissolved. The usual failing is in the 
basic portion of the stain, and unless the nuclei of the 
leucocytes are stained a brilliant blue the stain is worth- 
less for the demonstration of parasites. Leishman's stain 
also deteriorates, but can be made satisfactorily in the 
manner described. Both these stains must be rejected, 
however, if the normal constituents of the blood are not 
satisfactorily stained by them. 

The results obtained by the use of these stains are so 
clear and good that it is a pity to discard them, and a 
film can be much more rapidly examined when stained 
by Leishman's method than when stained by any other. 
The worker must, however, be prepared to make up his 
own stain, and, if need be, to distil water before he is 
justified in trusting to these stains alone. 

C. No preliminary fixation. When parasites are 
scanty they may be easily overlooked if thin films only 
are examined. Thick films, if fixed, are too opaque for 
examination after staining. 

A useful method with the larger parasites, is to make 
a very thick film and allow it to dry. When dry place 
in water, the haemoglobin will be dissolved out and 
only parasites, leucocytes, blood platelets and fibrin, 
with the decolourised remnants of the blood corpuscles, 
will be left. Such decolourised films, when dry, can be 
stained with any of the basic stains. There is usually 
considerable distortion of the parasites, but many of 
them, particularly crescents, are quite recognisable. Try- 
panosomes can be more readily found by this method 



74 DEVELOPMENT OF H^EMOSPORIDIA 

than in thin films, but are so much distorted that results 
are often unreliable. A good stain to use with these 
decolourised films is carbol fuchsin, diluted with two 
parts of water. Ross prefers to decolourise the film with 
a weak aqueous solution of eosin, and counter-stain 
with a weak solution of polychrome blue. It is a useful 
diagnostic method, but not suitable for obtaining good 
specimens of the more delicate parasites, and mistakes are 
frequently made. 

GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE 
H^EMOSPORIDIA. 

The Haemosporidia are parasitic in their entire exist- 
ence, and require for complete development two hosts : 
the one a warm-blooded animal, and the other usually an 
insect. In the warm-blooded host reproduction takes 
place asexually, by the breaking up of each organism into 
a number of young forms or spores. 

Each of these spores enters a reel corpuscle, and when 
it has reached its full development it, in turn, breaks up 
into spores. This is the ENDOGENOUS or ASEXUAL CYCLE 
OF DEVELOPMENT SCHIZOGONY. The host, during this 
cycle, is the INTERMEDIATE HOST. The parasites which 
develop in this manner are known as SCHIZONTS, and the 
individual spores as MEROZOITES. 

Some of the merozoites, however, instead of becoming 
schizonts, develop into the sexual or GAMETOCYTE form. 
These do not reproduce, or undergo any further change, 
whilst in the intermediate host. If they are taken up by 
the definitive host they become sexually active, conjuga- 
tion takes place, and further development follows. The 
product of the conjugation, the fertilised female, increases 
in size and forms a cyst. The contents of this cyst 
divide into several masses, SPOROBLASTS or zygotomeres, 
from which small, thread-like bodies, SPOROZOITES or 
zygotoblasts, are formed. These bodies, when introduced 
into a suitable animal the intermediate host become 
schizonts. 



PARASITES OF MALARIA 



75 



This cycle is a sexual one and is known as SPOROGONY, 
and the host during this period is therefore the DEFINI- 
TIVE HOST. Mosquitoes belonging to several genera of 
the Anophelince are the definitive hosts of the parasites of 
malaria, whilst man is the only known intermediate host. 

The diagram (fig. 27) represents in a graphic form the 
two methods of reproduction. The smaller circle repre- 
sents the asexual cycle of reproduction, and the larger the 
conjugation of the male and female sexual forms, with 
the further development of the fertilised female. 




FIG. 27. 



Parasites of Malaria. As seen in fresh living blood 
the youngest form of malaria parasite is a small, white, 
rounded body in or on a red corpuscle. A clearer por- 
tion can sometimes be made out inside it. At this stage 
it varies, according to the species of the parasite, from 



76 MALARIA 

one-eighth to one-quarter the diameter of the red blood 
corpuscle. Even the youngest forms of the parasite 
often show at the edge some sign of amoeboid movement. 
The parasite increases in size, and the amoeboid move- 
ments become pronounced. A parasite seen a few hours 
later will be observed to be not only larger, but to have a 
few grains of pigment scattered about inside it. The 
colour of the pigment and the size of the grains varies 
with the species of the parasite. When the parasite has 
reached the fullest growth its pigment commences to 
aggregate, usually towards the centre, and traces of 
division appear in the surrounding protoplasm. These 
traces of division become obvious, and soon the central 
aggregation of pigment can be seen to be surrounded by 
separate rounded masses of protoplasm the spores or 
merozoites. The remnant of the red corpuscle then gives 
way and the spores are poured out into the plasma. A 
mature parasite, if kept under observation on a warm 
stage, can frequently be seen to break up in this manner. 

In many cases a leucocyte will appear in the field 
and devour the pigment, and often some of the spores. 
That a large number of spores are destroyed is shown 
by the fact that though each tertian parasite forms 
twenty or more spores, the number of parasites in each 
successive cycle does not as a rule increase. 

Free spores are not found in the circulating blood. 
Apparently they either rapidly take shelter in a red 
blood corpuscle, or are destroyed by leucocytes or in 
some other manner. 

Stained specimens demonstrate some further points in 
the structure of the parasites. The youngest form, the 
amoebula, is shown to consist of a ring of protoplasm 
staining with basic stains, a clear unstained space, the 
vesicular nucleus, and a deeply stained spot, or nucleolus, 
usually in contact with the ring of protoplasm. 

This is the type of the young form of all the haemo- 
sporidia. They are all composed of a nucleolus staining 
deeply, a " vesicular " nucleus, which does not stain 



MALARIA 77 

with either acid or basic stains, and a surrounding proto- 
plasm which stains, but much less intensely than the 
nucleolus, with basic stains. It is only this surrounding 
protoplasm which is amoeboid, and consequently in the 
very young forms the range of amoeboid movement is not 
very great, as this protoplasm is so scanty. 

The increased growth of the parasite is mainly due 
to the increased growth of the ring of protoplasm, though 
the vesicular nucleus also enlarges. Pigment or the 
residue of the digested haemoglobin is deposited in this 
protoplasm only. With further growth the vesicular 
nucleus breaks up and disappears, and all that is seen 
is an irregularly stained parasite with pigment scattered 
through it. Later the pigment becomes pushed into 
one block, and the surrounding protoplasm is seen to 
be divided into masses, each with a deeply stained spot, 
the nucleolus of the young spore. 

Beyond showing the " ring form," none of the simple 
stains, such as haematoxylin, thionin, methyl blue, &c., 
disclose any structural changes beyond those seen in 
fresh blood. 

Romanowsky's method, or, better, Leishman's modi- 
fication of this method, shows more markedly the struc- 
tural changes, and, in particular, the varying arrangement 
of the chromatin. With this stain the youngest form, 
amcebula or ring form, is shown to have the chromatin 
arranged as a solid block the nucleolus which is 
stained deep red. The ring of protoplasm stains blue, 
whilst the vesicular nucleus is unstained. At a later 
stage the chromatin, instead of being in a solid mass, 
is seen to be composed of scattered points, arranged 
at part of the periphery of the vesicular nucleus. Still 
later, when the vesicular nucleus disappears, points of 
chromatin are found diffused through the protoplasm. 
This is called "fragmentation" of the nucleolus. Still 
later the chromatin aggregates into small masses towards 
the periphery, and a secondary division of the masses 
takes place, resulting in the formation of a number of 



78 SPECIES OF MALARIA PARASITES 

small chromatin nodules, the nucleoli of the young 
spores. 

When sporulation is complete each of these chromatin 
nodules is situated in the interior of a portion of the 
protoplasm of the parasite, and so forms the spore or 
merozoite. The pigment takes no part in the process, and 
with a small residual portion of the protoplasm of the 
parasite is pushed into a mass, usually towards the centre 
of the group of spores. When the corpuscle bursts and 
the spores are liberated, the pigment is devoured by 
leucocytes, usually the large mononuclear leucocytes. 
These thus become " pigmented leucocytes." 

The chromatin in the parasites destined to become 
gametocytes undergoes different changes. The first stage 
is the same as in the young parasite, which will ultimately 
divide asexually into spores the schizont. The chro- 
matin in the young or " ring " form of the gametocyte, 
as of the sporocyte, is arranged in a solid block. This 
chromatin subsequently divides into separate granules, 
but does not become diffused throughout the protoplasm 
as it does in the schizont. In the full-grown gametocyte 
the chromatin, composed of numerous particles packed 
together, forms one mass in the interior of the parasite, 
surrounded by a zone free from pigment and staining 
feebly. The changes in the arrangement of the chro- 
matin after the blood is shed and the gametocytes become 
sexually active, will be considered with the sexual or 
mosquito phase of the existence of the malaria parasite. 

All the human malaria parasites, the similar parasites 
in other mammalia and birds, as far as is known, conform 
to this general type. 

The distinctive points on which the division of the 
human parasites into distinct species is made are as 
follows : 

(1) Duration of the asexual cycle. 

(2) Number of spores formed at each sporulation. 

(3) Activity of movement. 

(4) Preferential sites for sporulation. 



MALARIA 79 

(5) Differences in digestive processes in different para- 
sites as indicated by the differences in pigment. 

(6) Effect of the parasite on the corpuscle which 
contains it. 

(7) Shape and appearance of the gametocyte. 

The methods of examination described are ample for 
determining these points. 

(1) The length of cycle can be readily ascertained in 
the case of parasites which sporulate in the peripheral 
blood. The blood is examined at intervals, so as to 
determine the length of time between the sporulation 
of a group of the parasites and the steady growth of 
this group up to the next period of sporulation. In 
benign tertian and quartan this is readily done, and it 
will be found that the period or length of cycle is 
approximately forty-eight and seventy-two hours respec- 
tively. It is difficult to determine in malignant tertain 
(aestivo-autumnal or sub-tertian) malaria, as only the 
young schizonts and mature gametocytes are common 
in the peripheral blood. The period for this species is 
certainly variable, and the parasites are commonly in 
several stages of growth, so that periodicity is not so 
clearly denned as in the other species of parasites of 
human malaria. 

(2) The number of spores can be counted in the fresh 
or stained blood when the parasites are fully mature. 
If stained for chromatin, the number of spores can be 
counted earlier. It will be found that in benign tertian 
the spores are usually about 20, but may be as low as 
15 or as high as 25, or even more. In benign quartan 
12 is a maximum rarely exceeded, whilst 8, 9, or 10 are 
the common numbers. The number in sub-tertian is 
more variable 4 to 30. 

(3) The activity of the amoeboid movement can only 
be determined with certainty in the living blood. In- 
ternal movement in the parasite itself is also shown in 
the fresh fluid blood by movement of the pigment in 
the parasite. 



8o MALARIA 

Amoeboid movements can be inferred in stained 
specimens, as the parasites present great varieties in 
shape, and frequently where amoeboid movements have 
been active when the film is dried, the pseudopodia can 
still be seen. 

(4) The selective site for sporulation is of great impor- 
tance, as one species, the malignant tertian (sub-tertian) 
sporulates almost exclusively in the internal organs, and 
the occasional malignant clinical course of the disease 
caused by this parasite is due to the selection of the 
brain or other important organ as a site for sporulation. 

The absence of full-grown forms and the determination 
of the absence of sporulating forms indicate that the 
parasites are sporulating elsewhere, i.e., in the internal 
organs. Post-mortem examination of fatal cases shows 
in which organs the sporulating parasites are, but the 
clinical symptoms often give a clue. 

Benign tertian parasites sporulate to a considerable 
extent in the circulating blood, though the splenic sinuses 
are their preferential resort at this period. Quartan 
parasites sporulate freely in the circulating blood, whilst 
sub-tertian (malignant tertian) is hardly ever found sporu- 
lating except in the visceral capillaries. 

All the phases of benign tertian and quartan can be 
observed in the blood obtained by pricking the finger or 
ear, and therefore the determination of the length of the 
cycle with these parasites is easy. With malignant tertian, 
on the other hand, the stages of sporulation, or even 
the full-grown schizonts, are rarely to be observed in 
the peripheral blood. The full-grown gametocytes are 
common in the blood, but the intermediate stages of 
growth cannot be found except in the visceral capillaries. 
Puncture of the spleen in the living subject may show 
these forms. If undertaken aseptically the operation is 
considered to be practically free from risk to the patient ; 
but as accidents have occurred this method should not 
be employed except in cases where certainty of diagnosis 
is absolutely necessary. 



MALARIA 8 1 

In fatal cases with cerebral symptoms, the speculating 
and full-grown forms can be observed in enormous 
numbers in the brain and often in other organs lungs, 
suprarenals, liver, &c. In other fatal cases they may 
be found in greatest numbers in the intestinal mucosa, 
pancreas, and rarely in the kidneys. 

The organ in which the parasites are most commonly 
found post, mortem is the brain, and cerebral symptoms 
are common in so many cases that recover that it seems 
probable that this is a favourite site. It must be remem- 
bered, however, that as the blocking of the cerebral 
capillaries is the most common cause of death in acute 
malaria, that the proportion of fatal cases with this com- 
plication gives an exaggerated idea of the frequency with 
which this site is selected by the parasites. 

For diagnostic purposes it suffices to take a small por- 
tion of the fresh brain substance and squash it between 
the slide and cover-glass. The capillaries in a case of 
cerebral malaria will then be seen to be filled with grains 
of black pigment. Though the parasites themselves 
cannot be seen, these grains of pigment are diagnostic, 
as they are contained in the full-grown or sporulating 
parasite. 

It is not absolutely necessary to open the skull, though 
it is better to do so. The needle of a large exploring 
syringe can be forced through the orbital plate of the 
frontal bone and the brain stirred up a little ; suction 
with the syringe will then usually bring away sufficient 
brain matter for examination. As the puncture is made 
through the conjunctiva no disfigurement results, and 
the site of puncture will be covered by the eyelid. 

The vessels on the pia mater, particularly at the base 
of the brain, are frequently pigmented. This pigmenta- 
tion must not be confused with malarial pigmentation. 
The pigment is not contained, as it is in malaria, in the 
capillaries, but in their walls, and is insoluble in alkalies 
which readily dissolve melanin. The finely granular 
arrangement of this natural pigmentation differs from 
6 



82 MALARIA 

the coarser arrangements of the melanin particles, and 
the colour is brown not black. This pigmentation, 
non-malarial, occurs in all races, but is commoner in the 
coloured races. It is found in new- or still-born children 
whose organs are free from malarial pigmentation. 

To demonstrate the arrangement of the pigment 
granules of malaria in a hardened brain, thick sections 
should be cut. These can be quite easily cut by hand, 
and without any staining passed through absolute alcohol 
and then oil of cloves to dissolve the fatty brain 
constituents and render the section transparent. The 
section can then be mounted in balsam, and in a malarial 
case every capillary will then be seen to be mapped out 
by the contained pigment granules almost as if it had 
been injected. 

These methods, though useful for rapid diagnosis, do 
not show the parasite. With the fresh brain specimens, 
whether a squashed fragment or a fragment drawn out 
with the exploring syringe be examined, parasites will 
often be seen in corpuscles which have escaped from the 
capillaries. 

To show the parasites well it is necessary to stain 
them. With the fresh brain it is not necessary to cut 
sections nor is it advisable. A smear should be made 
of the brain substance, and this should be dried rapidly 
by waving it in the air not by the application of heat. 
The smear need not be very thin, as the greater part of 
the brain matter is subsequently dissolved. The smear 
can be stained by Leishman's method, but must then 
be thoroughly dried to dehydrate, and mounted in 
xylol balsam. This method shows the chromatin in the 
parasites, but the drying causes much distortion of the 
surrounding tissues. 

If this method be not adopted, haematoxylin gives 
good and permanent results, and carbol thionin also gives 
very good results. The procedure is as follows : Fix 
the smear in alcohol for ten minutes and allow to dry. 

To stain with haematoxylin, cover the smear with a 



MALARIA 83 

haematin solution and leave for ten minutes. Flush 
off the stain and place the slide in water for five minutes. 
Dehydrate with spirit and oil of cloves. Mount in 
xylol balsam. 

With carbol thionin the procedure is rather more 
complicated and requires more care. It is, however, 
a general method, and is a suitable one also for the 
demonstration of micro-organisms in tissues, 

Fix the smear in absolute alcohol as before, and cover 
it with the strong carbol thionin solution. Leave for 
ten to fifteen minutes. It is essential that at this stage 
the specimen should be very much over-stained, as 
much stain is lost in the subsequent processes. Flush 
off the stain with water. Pass through methylated 
spirit, not absolute alcohol. Much stain will come 
away, and care must be exercised that the specimen 
is still over-stained when removed from the spirit. The 
time the specimen is left in the spirit is determined 
entirely by the colour. It cannot be completely dehy- 
drated at this stage, or too much colour would be 
removed. Drain off and gently blot off excess of spirit. 
Cover with oil of cloves and place under the micro- 
scope. The oil of cloves will dissolve out the brain 
fatty matter, complete the dehydration, and slowly 
remove the excess of stain. When it is observed that 
nearly enough stain is removed, a cover-glass can be 
placed over the specimen and an examination made 
with an oil immersion lens. If the specimen is well 
stained the cover-glass can be removed, and the speci- 
men placed in xylol to remove the oil of cloves, which 
would otherwise ultimately decolourise the specimen. 
Finally it is mounted in xylol Canada balsam. 

Specimens of brain hardened in absolute alcohol can 
be used. Thin sections are required, imbedded in 
paraffin for choice. The processes are the same as for 
brain smears after the paraffin has been removed from 
the specimen by xylol, the xylol by alcohol, and the 
alcohol by water; but the section must not be allowed 
to dry at any stage. 



84 MALARIA-SECTIONS 

The parasites in sections show well, but are smaller, 
only about half the size of those in the smears made 
from the fresh brain, as the fixative agent causes much 
shrinking (Plate II., 3^, 4*3). As this parasite is the 
smallest of the human malaria parasites, and when full- 
grown often little more than half the diameter of the 
red blood corpuscles, there is in these shrunken speci- 
mens considerable difficulty in making out the spores into 
which the parasites are broken up. 

In these specimens the corpuscle containing the para- 
site is not lying singly or flat, as it is in the blood film, 
but is one of the many corpuscles packed into the capil- 
lary, so that it is exceptional for the outline of the 
corpuscle containing the parasite to be made out (fig. 28). 

These methods are general methods for the demon- 
stration of protozoa in tissues. With carbol thionin 
bacteria are also shown. 

In the large vessels parasites are not so common. In 
the small vessels the corpuscles containing the parasites 
are often found only in contact with the wall of the 
vessel, and no parasites are contained in the corpuscles 
towards the centre of the vessel. The largest number 
of the parasites are in the corpuscles in the capillaries. 

This occurrence in the minute capillaries results in 
a blood stasis more or less complete. Such a stasis 
involving a large part of the brain results in headache, 
drowsiness, and coma in adults, rarely delirium, and 
in convulsions and coma in young children, and is the 
most common cause of death in acute malaria. The 
process is often spoken of as thrombosis. This is in- 
correct ; there is no coagulum formed, no fibrin, and 
the leucocytes are not aggregated in the capillaries and 
take no part in the process. Clinically, where active 
treatment is adopted we have abundant evidence that 
the condition is a transient one. Speedy and complete 
recovery from the condition of complete coma frequently 
takes place under energetic treatment with quinine. 

The parasites themselves are usually at different stages. 



e V2 



- '****L 




a. Pancreas. 




. From Intestine. 
FIG. 28. 



Face p. 84. 



MALARIA-SECTIONS 85 

Quite young parasites, hardly larger than the spores, may 
be found. More commonly the great majority of the 
parasites contain centralised pigment and have lost their 
vesicular nucleus. In some specimens a large proportion, 
in others a small proportion, will be found sporulating. 

The number of spores varies greatly, and in some 
specimens only seven or eight spores will be found to 
each parasite. In other cases the number will be twenty 
or more. 

This variation in the number of spores is one of the 
distinctions on which reliance has been placed for the 
subdivision of this species into three. 

In most parts of the body a temporary partial stasis 
of the blood in the capillaries leads to no sudden fatal 
changes or symptoms, and consequently, unless the brain 
is also involved, a fatal result is not common. There 
are, however, peculiar risks attending another region 
the intestines. Stasis occurring in the capillaries of the 
mucosa impairs the vitality of the cells and renders them 
liable to be invaded by some of the bacterial contents 
of the alimentary tract. Secondary inflammation and 
superficial necrosis may thus result, and so indirectly, by 
lowering the nutrition of the mucosa, a fatal enteritis 
may be set up. There is some reason for believing 
that sufficient attention has not been paid to the indirect 
results of repeated blood stasis in the various viscera, 
consequent on malarial infection. 

The parasites in these and other situations are best 
demonstrated in sections stained with haematoxylin, 
or carbol thionin, as already described for the brain. 
Carbol thionin has the additional advantage of staining 
the micro-organisms which have invaded the mucosa. 
These, however, can be shown in separate specimens 
somewhat better, particularly those micro-organisms 
which retain their stain when treated by Gram's method. 

(5) Melanin malarial pigment, or simply " pigment," 
is the residue from the digestion of haemoglobin, and 
contains the excess of iron over the minute amount 
required by the parasite. 



86 



MALARIA 



In the different species it is deposited in different 
forms. In the quartan it is deposited as granules, which 
are coarse and black, and in the benign tertian the colour 
varies from a yellow-brown to a dark brown, but is 
always in fine granules ; in the sub-tertian the pigment 
is not commonly seen in the early forms present in the 
peripheral blood. When it is found it is in fine, black 




FIG. 29. a to /, Phases in the asexual development of the quartan 
parasite ; x to z, phases in the sexual development. 

granules, which aggregate into a mass earlier than in the 
other forms of parasites. 

(6) The parasite affects the corpuscle containing it in 
different ways. 9 

In the quartan fever, although the parasite is in the 
interior of the corpuscle, the bulk, or at any rate the 
diameter of a corpuscle containing the parasite, is slightly 
below the average in the majority of instances. The 
colour of the red corpuscle is not lighter, and is fre- 



MALARIA 07 

quently a trifle darker than the average of the red 
corpuscles. 

In benign tertian there is a great difference, as the 
diameter of the corpuscle is decidedly above the average 
and the corpuscle is pale. This is well seen both in 
stained and unstained specimens. The corpuscle is easily 
distorted, and is consequently frequently compressed by 




FIG. 30. a to , Phases in the asexual development of the benign tertian 
parasite ; x to z, phases in the sexual development. 

neighbouring blood cells, when these are in contact with 
it. Leishman's and some other similar stains reveal still 
further changes, as granules staining deeply red are 
found throughout the corpuscle in parts not invaded by 
the parasites. These granules are small and not very 
distinct when the parasite is very young, but with the 
growth of the parasite become more numerous and more 
distinct (Plate IV., 7, 8, 9, and Plate III., 21). They are 
not found with the other human malaria parasites, nor 



88 MALARIA 

with the haemamcebidae of mammals and birds, but are 
found in corpuscles infected by one species of drepani- 
dium in the frog. 

To show them well, the mixed water and stain in 
Leishman's method must be left on double the normal 
time, and fifteen minutes is not too long with most 
specimens of the stain. 

These granules are known as Schiiffner's granules, and 
must not be confused with the basophilic granules, 
which stain blue by the same method, found in some 
instances abundantly in malarial blood, as well as in 
other diseases. 

The effect of the malignant tertian parasite on the 
corpuscle is variable. The young forms met with in 
peripheral blood do not appreciably affect it, but occa- 
sionally the corpuscle is changed in colour to a yellowish 
or brassy tinge. With the more advanced stages of the 
parasite the corpuscle, without increasing in size, becomes 
more or less decolourised. In the full-grown parasite, 
whether schizont or gametocyte, the remnant of the red 
corpuscle is a mere colourless shadow, which is not 
always easy to define (Plate II., i to 8). 

(7) The shape of the gametocyte in benign tertian and 
quartan is that of a rounded body difficult to distin- 
guish from the full-grown schizont before sporulation has 
taken place. In malignant tertian the gametocyte is the 
so-called "crescent." It is better described as sausage- 
shaped. It is not truly crescent-shaped, as, though often 
slightly curved, the two ends are broad and rounded, 
not tapering to sharp points as a true crescent. These 
bodies always contain pigment, and this pigment is never 
in a solid block, but is always composed of discrete par- 
ticles grouped in a cluster near the centre of the parasite. 

These gametocyte forms are best observed in fresh 
fluid blood films, and it is only in such films that the 
subsequent changes can be followed. 

As it is not easy to distinguish the gametocyte of 
benign tertian and quartan malaria from the sporocyte, 



MALARIA 



89 



the subsequent changes are most readily observed in the 
case of malignant or sub-tertian malaria, as the pecu- 
liar " crescent " shape renders the identification of the 
gametocyte easy in this class of malaria. 




o 



X y 




FIG. 31. a to <e, Phases in the asexual development of the malignant 
malarial parasite ; x to z, phases in the sexual development* y z, of the 
female ; x 1 y 1 z 1 , of the male. 



-These changes only take place when alterations in 
the blood occur, such as abstraction or addition of water. 
The! crescents lose their peculiar shape and become first 



90 GAMETOCYTES 

oval and then spherical. Small portions, one or two, 
are extruded, the polar bodies, and remain usually 
adherent to the outer surface of the altered crescent. 

Of these altered crescents, a proportion which varies 
in different specimens throw out long, filamentous 
flagella, varying in number from two or three to six. 
These flagella are actively motile and lash about in 
the blood plasma, or over neighbouring red corpuscles 
for some time. Finally they break away, and can be 
seen moving rapidly through the plasma. 

The crescents which undergo this change and flagel- 
late are the males, and the flagella are equivalent to 
spermatozoa, and are known as MICROGAMETES. The 
residue of the crescent is a small protoplasmic mass con- 
taining all the pigment. It soon dies, and is either broken 
up or devoured by a leucocyte. 

The other altered crescents do not flagellate. After 
the extrusion of the polar bodies they retain their spheri- 
cal shape, but the pigment in the interior is often in a 
state of violent agitation. They form the MACROGAMETES. 

Very rarely a flagellum that has broken off the male 
crescent is seen to enter this rounded body, and is ab- 
sorbed by it. These mature crescents which do not 
flagellate are the females, and the entrance of the flagellum 
is a process of fertilisation. After fertilisation further 
changes take place, the pigment becomes violently 
agitated, and the whole body changes shape, one end 
becomes conical, and the body becomes actively motile, 
moving steadily through the blood serum. 

This fertilised female is known as the " travelling 
vermicule " or OOKINET, and passes into the outer wall 
of the mosquito's stomach, where it becomes encysted 
and forms the ZYGOTE. 

The male and female crescents can often be distin- 
guished in the freshly shed blood by the arrangement of 
the pigment. In the female there is usually a clear space 
in the middle surrounded by pigment, whilst in the 
male no such clear space is present and the pigment is 
less in a ring and more in a clump than in the female. 



GAMETOCYTES 9! 

The young forms of crescents are sometimes found in 
the brain, spleen and elsewhere ; they can be distin- 
guished by their shape and the tendency of the pigment 
to be arranged in a central, irregular clump, and not in 
one mass. 

The same series of changes . occur in the gametes of 
benign tertian and quartan malaria after the blood is 
shed. 

The gametocytes stain rather feebly with basic stains. 
The outlines of the red corpuscles which contain them 
can usually be made out, though, as all the haemoglobin 
is absorbed, the remnant does not stain, or only faintly, 
with eosin. 

The gametocytes contain chromatin in considerable 
quantity, but this chromatin, though it stains with the 
red of the polychrome methylene blue, does not stain 
with haematoxylin or most basic stains. 

Stained by Leishman's method, the gametocytes of 
benign tertain and quartan are easily recognised, as the 
chromatin granules are collected in a clump surrounded 
by an unstained area free from pigment (Plate IV., 6). 

In the crescents the chromatin in the female is collected 
into a solid block in the centre, and round this the pig- 
ment is arranged. In the male there is no central block 
of chromatin, but numerous scattered particles mixed up 
with the pigment. In the males the chromatin may be 
very abundant (Plate IV., 18, 19). 

To make permanent preparations showing the changes 
that occur in shed blood, it is necessary to prevent the 
blood from drying and to examine at intervals of a few 
minutes. For this purpose the slides with the fluid film 
on them must be kept in a moist chamber. This is 
easily done by cutting windows in a folded piece of 
blotting paper and placing this blotting paper on a slab. 
The blotting paper should be moistened, and the windows 
each covered with a slide on which is the wet film face 
downwards. The evaporation from the damp blotting 
paper will render the air so moist that evaporation from 
the film will be very slow. 



92 GAMETOCYTES 

One of these slides can be taken off and allowed to 
dry every five minutes, and in this way we have a series 
of blood films five, ten, fifteen, twenty minutes, or more, 
after the blood has been shed. 

To obtain stained specimens of flagellating bodies thick 
films can be used, and when allowed to dry the haemo- 
globin may be removed by placing the slide in water. 
After this the film is again allowed to dry, fixed in 
alcohol, and stained with a strong basic stain, such as 
carbol fuchsin. 

To observe the changes that occur in the arrange- 
ment of the chromatin these decolourised films cannot 
be used, but the specimen with a moderately thick film 
must, after drying, be stained by Leishman's method. 
In both male and female a portion of the chromatin 
will be seen to be extruded in the polar body. The 
remainder increases in amount, and most of it in the 
male will be seen in the form of nodules at the periphery 
of the altered crescent. Finger-like processes of the 
protoplasm will be seen to project from the vicinity of 
these masses, at first without any chromatin, and these 
processes elongate and form long, slender flagella without 
chromatin. Ultimately, however, the chromatin enters 
the flagella as a long, thin filament, leaving a mere 
residuum in the remnant of the crescent at the base of 
the flagellum. When the flagellum breaks loose it has 
this chromatin filament running nearly its whole length. 
Even when all the flagella have broken away there are 
still remnants of the chromatin in the protoplasmic 
residual mass left behind. 

In the female the chromatin forms a less compact 
mass after the extrusion of the polar bodies, and it is 
with this mass that the chromatin of the flagellum which 
fertilises it probably fuses. 

Minor differences in the crescents as regards shape, 
staining, reaction, and colour of the pigment, are described 
by those who subdivide the malignant or sub-tertian 
into three species. 



GAMETOCYTES 



93 



As regards the genesis of the gametocytes, suggestions 
have been made from time to time that they may be 
formed by the union of two young parasites in one cor- 
puscle. Two, or even three or four parasites are not 
uncommonly found in one red Corpuscle. These para- 
sites may be in actual contact with each other, but 
there is no satisfactory evidence that conjugation or 
fusion of two such parasites ever take place. On general 
grounds there is little or nothing to support this hypo- 
thesis of the formation of the male and female sexual 
forms. 

The differences between the three main species of 
parasites are shown in tabular form on the next page 
(Table, p. 94). 

Mistakes can be made with every method of blood 
examination, but most of them after a little experience 
are easily avoided. 

In fresh fluid blood films the following are often mis- 
taken for non-pigmented parasites. 

(1) The normal lighter colour of the central portion 
of the corpuscle, due to the bi-concave shape of the red 
corpuscle. The gradual shading and the absence of any 
definite edge to the lighter part is usually sufficient to 
prevent this error, and familiarity with this appearance 
in normal blood is of importance. 

(2) Vacuoles or slits in a blood corpuscle are distin- 
guished by the very sharp, abrupt edge of such a vacuole, 
and by the oscillatory motion of the edge. It can be 
generally seen that whilst in a parasite there is a faint 
opalescence, in the vacuole the space is perfectly clear 
(vide fig 19, c). 

(3) Blood plates resting on a blood corpuscle are in 
some cases difficult to distinguish. Round such blood 
plates there is usually a ring where the haemoglobin has 
been pressed out of the corpuscle, and in some cases 
by focussing it can be determined that the body is one 
which is on and not a part of the red corpuscle. 

(4) Small particles resting on a corpuscle will displace 
the hemoglobin beneath them and cause a lighter- 



Effect on 
Red Corpusc 






o 8 5*22.2 

CJ c n-, "e 

JIlH! 



8 



The corpuscle be 
comes smaller 
and darker 






28 



- 3 & 8 3 -a 



1 






c 2 MSTS 
"~ 5 c c " 
- So.2 -s 2. S3 



1 
b 

> 



| 

a f 



ii 

< c 






H " 
S-.> 



H w o 

< _Q g 

i&i 



DECEPTIONS 95 

coloured patch in the corpuscle. Such particles, if 
dark, are often mistaken for pigment, and the pale area 
is taken for the parasite. 

(5) Crenations, particularly when they occur as pro- 
jections on the upper or lower surface of a corpuscle, are 
frequent sources of error. The effect of focussing, or 
alteration of the illumination, will show the true nature 
of these crenations (vide fig. 19, a, b). 

(6) Bent or twisted " buckled " corpuscles may cause 
confusion (fig. 19, d and e). 

Many effects are mistaken for pigmented parasites. 
Some of these are due to insufficient illumination, as 
refraction effects with a dim light closely simulate grains 
of pigment. Crenated corpuscles, leucocytes, &c., are 
thus sometimes taken for pigmented parasites. Full 
illumination will dispel this illusion. Particles of dirt, 
or epithelial fragments with specks of dirt adhering, 
usually overlap at one edge or other a red corpuscle on 
which they lie. If they do not, by focussing it can often 
be determined that they lie on or beneath the red cor- 
puscle. In most cases such fragments can be distin- 
guished by their sharp angular outline, the irregularity 
in the size of the grains of dirt they contain, and by their 
high refractive index. 

Flaws, specks of dirt, or grease on slides or cover- 
glasses may cause confusion, but may be distinguished in 
the same manner. In any case of doubt it is well to 
touch the edge of the cover-glass with a needle whilst 
observing the object, and in that way it will be seen that 
the movement of the object is independent of the cor- 
puscle that was supposed to contain it. 

In stained specimens there are similar fallacies, and 
in addition, dirt from the stain, precipitated grains of 
stain, yeast cells, or other micro-organisms, may be 
present. It is well in any case of doubt to examine 
some part of the slide where the stain has extended 
beyond the blood film, and see if the same appearances 
are presented there. 



') DECEPTIONS 

In the great majority of cases, if the appearances met 
with in normal blood have been carefully studied, par- 
ticularly the blood plates and the various forms of de- 
generation of blood cells and of stained precipitates, 
mistakes are rare. Very rarely we do get an appearance 
from stain precipitates deposited on a red corpuscle that 
is difficult to distinguish, and therefore we should avoid 
diagnosing malaria from a single body believed to be a 
parasite. It is better in case of doubt to look carefully 
for a second parasite. 

Crescents should never be diagnosed on the ground of 
the shape only. A crescent always contains pigment, 
and is longer than the diameter of a red blood cor- 
puscle, and stains with basic stains. Three blood plates 
arranged in a row may be about the same size and shape 
as a crescent, but do not contain pigment or stain like 
a crescent. A transformed or altered crescent can be 
mistaken for a quartan parasite. 

Groups of blood plates are sometimes taken for sporu- 
lating bodies, and if they surround, as they may, a mass 
of dirt, the mistake is easily made. Even in fresh fluid 
blood the peculiar appearance of the edges of blood 
plates should prevent this mistake, and in stained speci- 
mens the manner in which the blood plates stain will 
enable them to be recognised. 

Imperfect fixation is a cause of some errors. In 
specimens fixed by heat, or fixed in alcohol that has 
absorbed water, small round bodies, artificial vacuoles, 
water or air, are often found in the red cells. They may 
be numerous in each corpuscle, or only one or two may 
be present. The sharp edge and high refractivity of 
these bodies, as well as the variation in size, distinguishes 
them from parasites. 

Familiarity with the appearances of blood prepared 
in different ways is necessary, so that these appear- 
ances will cause no difficulty, and the recognition with 
certainty and rapidity of parasites will then be easy. 



DECEPTIONS 



97 



Leishman-Donovan bodies, which are described later, 
are found in some cases of kala-azar in the leucocytes of 
the peripheral blood. The large mononuclear leucocyte 
is the variety in which they are ordinarily found, but 
they also occur in the polymorphonuclear leucocytes. 
They can be distinguished by the double chromatin mass 
a smaller deeply staining mass, and a larger more 
lightly stained one (vide Parasites in tissues). 



9 8 



CHAPTER V. 
PARASITES FOUND IN THE BLOOD OF ANIMALS. 

BIRDS harbour two well-known species of intracorpus- 
cular parasites proteosoma and halteridium, and others 
occur. 

Proteosoma (Proteosoma grassi, fig. 32*2) is found in 
comparatively few species of birds. Amongst these the 
Indian sparrow is the most common. Working with this 
parasite, Major Ross first demonstrated the sexual cycle 
of the haemosporidia in a mosquito. Proteosoma in birds 
has many resemblances to the malaria parasite of man. 
In its earliest stage it is unpigmented ; with continued 
growth pigment appears, and as the parasite grows it 
displaces the nucleus of the affected red blood corpuscle, 
and the corpuscle becomes paler. All stages of develop- 
ment, from ring forms to sporulating forms, are found 
in the blood at the same time. The infection is readily 
transferred from one bird to another by inoculation, and 
also to other birds, such as canaries. It is naturally 
transmitted by mosquitoes (Culex fatigans). 

Halteridium (Plates I. and III.) is a common parasite 
of many species of birds ; it is found in pigeons, crows, 
jays, finches, parrots, &c. often a high percentage of the 
birds of a susceptible species are found to be infected. 
The infection cannot be transferred from one bird to 
another by inoculation, and the method of its transmis- 
sion in nature is doubtful. It was with this parasite 
that MacCallum first demonstrated the fertilisation of 
the macrogamete by the microgamete. This parasite is 



HALTERIDIUM 



99 



characterised by its peculiar curved shape surrounding 
the oval nucleus, but not displacing it. It does not cause 
any change in the red corpuscle which contains it. 
Halteridium resembles proteosoma in producing pigment, 
but is easily distinguished from it by its position in the 
cell (fig. 326). 

Halteridium has attracted a good deal of attention 
recently in view of Schaudinn's remarkable observations 
on the life-cycle of Trypanosoma noctucc, a trypanosome 
occurring in the blood of the little owl (Athene noctnce). 
According to Schaudinn this flagellate attaches itself to 
the red blood corpuscle by means of its flagellum, and, 





a b 

FlG. 32. a, Proteosoma; b, halteridium. 



gradually penetrating it, comes to lie by the side of the 
nucleus. In this process the trypanosome loses its 
flagellum and undulating membrane, and the blepharo- 
blast becomes closely applied to the nucleus. The flagel- 
late Trypanosoma noctua thus becomes transformed into 
the halteridium. The trypanosome stages are found 
at night chiefly in the internal organs, while the halteri- 
dium phase is found by day in the peripheral blood. 
When fully grown the trypanosome may divide asexually, 
or if the gametocyte forms are taken into the stomach of 
the mosquito Culex pipiens, develop further. Schaudinn's 



100 PIROPLASMA 

observations still await confirmation. Some observers 
are of the opinion that probably both trypanosomes and 
halteridia were present in the birds, and that Schaudinn 
confused the changes occurring in these two classes of 
parasites. The frequency with which flagellates are 
found in insects adds to the doubt as to Schaudinn's 
hypotheses. 

Various other parasites allied to those of human malaria 
have been found in animals. African monkeys harbour 
a parasite (Plasmodium kochi) closely resembling the 
sub-tertian parasite of man, and some species of Asiatic 
monkeys, bats, and flying foxes harbour parasites which 
are not unlike those of quartan malaria. 

PIROPLASMATA. Another class of parasite, of which 
several representatives have been found in the blood of 
animals, is piroplasma. These parasites differ from the 
Hcemamceboe, such as the parasites of malaria, in that they 
form no pigment, that the nucleolus does not fragment, 
that division is into two or four only, and in the frequency 
with which extra-corpuscular forms are found. All the 
parasites of this class which have so far been investi- 
gated, have been shown to have as an intermediate host 
some species of tick of the sub-family Ixodina. The first 
of these to be discovered was Piroplasma bigeminum 
(Plate II., 13), the cause of Texas fever in cattle. It is 
transmitted in America by Rhipicephalus annulatus, and 
in Africa and Queensland by R. australis. 

P. parvum causes Rhodesian fever of cattle. It occurs 
in the blood in bacillary, spherical and intermediate 
forms. It is transmitted by Rhipicephalus appendiculatus. 
An animal may harbour both Piroplasma bigeminum 
and P. parvum at the same time. P. bigeminum 
may be conveyed from one animal to another by 
inoculation, but similar experiments with P. parvum 
have been negative, and the offspring of infected ticks 
are not infective. 

P. canis is the cause of epidemic jaundice of dogs. It 
is carried by Hcemaphy salts leachi in South Africa, and 



PIROPLASMA 101 

Dermacentor reticulatus in Europe, and Rhipicephalus 
sanguineus in India. 

Other species of piroplasma described are : P. ovis, 
found in sheep and carried by Rhipicephalus bursa ; P. 
equi, P. muris, and an unnamed species found in the 
monkey in Uganda has been described by P. H. Ross. 

DEVELOPMENT OF PIROPLASMA. 

Asexual Cycle. This parasite has a free and an intra- 
corpuscular stage in its asexual life-history. In the free 
stage they are pyriform in shape, and in the intracorpus- 
cular at first rounded, afterwards dividing into two or 
more pyriform bodies by a process of budding. The 
newly found parasites are at first connected together by 
a thin process, but finally become separated, and escaping 





FIG. 33. 

from the corpuscle invade other corpuscles. They may 
enter and leave two or three corpuscles before again 
becoming rounded and undergoing division ultimately, 
however, the process of division is undergone, and so the 
cycle is repeated. 

Sexual Stage. Koch has described developmental forms 
of P. bigeminum in Rhipicephalus australis, R. evertsi and 
Hyalomma cegyptium, and Christophers has demonstrated 
similar forms of P. canis in Rhipicephalus sanguineus. 
From these observations it appears that in the stomach of 
the tick the parasite escapes from the red blood corpuscle 
and becomes elongated, one of its chromatin masses pas- 
sing to the blunt (? anterior) end, forming a projection 



102 H^MOGREGARINA 

the other chromatin mass remaining in the middle of the 
parasite. Next radial processes arise near the projection, 
the other end of the parasite becomes pointed, and the 
general contour of the parasite becomes angular. After 
the second day couples of these forms are seen apparently 
connected together, a process of copulation. The male 
element, after giving up its chromatin, is thrown off or 
stretched out over the enlarging fertilised female. The 
fertilised element after becoming round, oval or eventu- 
ally club-shaped, leaves the gut and passes to the ovary. 
In the ova of infected ticks large pear-shaped bodies 
are described. Christophers also states that he has 
found further developmental forms in the cells of the 
gut of unfed nymphs reared from infected mothers, 
and has traced them to the salivary glands of nymphs 
of the second generation, which were about to become 
adults. 

H^MOGREGARINA. The haemogregarines are unpig- 
mented parasites, occuring both as intracorpuscular forms, 
in which they are bent upon themselves so as to form 
a tail (Plate III., figs. 16 and 19), and as free vermicular 
forms in the blood plasma (Plate III., figs. 17 and 20). 
They are non-pigmented, and in stained specimens the 
nucleus stains and contains abundant chromatin as 
numerous granules sometimes arranged in radiating lines. 
Sporulation takes place not in the blood, but in certain 
cells of the viscera. 

The parasites are common in the blood of cold- 
blooded vertebrates. The effect on the red corpuscle 
varies. Some species displace the nucleus, some do not. 
At least one species causes the formation of granules 
which stain like the Schiifner's dots in the human cor- 
puscle containing the parasite of benign tertian malaria 
(Plate III., 21). Several species have recently been found 
in the blood of mammals. None have been found in 
human blood. 

The first of these mammalian haemogregarines was 
discovered by Bentley in the leucocytes of dogs in Assam, 



H^MOGREGARINA 



103 



and described by James as Leucocytozoon canis. Soon 
afterwards similar parasites were described by Balfour 
as occurring in the red blood corpuscles of the jerboa, 
Jaculus goudoni (fig. 346), and by Christophers in 
the Indian field-rat, Gerbillus indicus. Later, Patton 
described another haemogregarine in the leucocytes of the 
Kathiawar squirrel, Funambuls pennantii, and Balfour 
a similar parasite in the leucocytes of the rat (Mus 
decumanus). 




FIG. 340. 




FIG. 34^. 



L. canis occurs in the polymorphonuclear leucocytes. 
The parasite is enclosed by a capsule which is not easily 
penetrated by the stain. It is an oblong body rounded 
at the ends. The contents are the haemogregarine, which 
is sharply bent on itself, so that the nucleus is frequently 
horse-shoe shaped. 

The development of this parasite has been studied by 
Christophers. It has been found to reproduce itself by 



104 H^MOGREGARINA 

encystment in the bone-marrow of the host, there form- 
ing merozoites (fig. 35). He also found that the sexual 
development of the parasite took place in the dog tick 
(R. sanguinetis). When taken into the gut of ticks the 
parasite escapes from the capsule and shows active 
vermicular movements. Within twenty-four hours these, 
associated in pairs, have lodged themselves in the large 
cells of the gut. On the second day conjugation between 
two similar individuals takes place, and a globular body 
is formed containing a single large homogeneous mass 
of chromatin. This chromatin mass spreads out to form 
a reticulum, and the protoplasm increases in amount. 
The chromatin collects at the periphery into irregular 
star-shaped masses, and on the third or fourth day the 
whole body splits up to form eleven to fourteen sporo- 
zoites. When set free the sporozoites are in the lumen 
of the gut. The method of re-entry in the dog has not 
been discovered. 

H. balfouri occurs in the red blood corpuscles of the 
jerboa or desert-rat. As seen in stained specimens it 
is a slightly curved body, with rounded ends lying either 
apparently free or in the remains of a red blood cor- 
puscle. It is believed that the free forms owe their con- 
dition to the destruction of the red blood cell which 
contained them. A long oval nucleus, situated about 
the centre of the parasite, is present, and occasionally 
a few dots of chromatin in the pale polar areas. 

The stage of schizogony has been observed by Balfour 
to take place in the liver cells of the host (fig. 35), and is 
similar to that described in L. canis. 

H. gerbilii is a parasite similar to the preceding, occur- 
ring in the red blood corpuscles of the Indian field-rat. 

The stage of sporogony occurs in the louse. The 
complete life-cycle has not been discovered. 

L. funambuli is a parasite occurring in the large 
mononuclear leucocytes of the palm squirrel. It differs 
from L. canis in the absence of a cytocyst. A similar 
parasite has been found by Balfour in the Norway rat. 




FIG. 35. 



Face p. 104. 



H^EMOGREGARINA IO5 



ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF THE MALARIA PARASITES. 

Protozoa 

I 
Class Sporozoa 

\ 



I I 

Sub-class l^elosportdia Neospondia 



Order (i) Gregarinoidea H&mosporidia, Coccidiidea 

Genera : 

(i) Plasmodium (Ham- (2) H&mogregarina (3) Piroplasma (4) Halter i- 
amceba} \ dium (?) 

/ P. vivax (Benign tertian H. ranarum P. bigcminum 

parasite) H. gerbilli P. parvum 

v P.malarice( Quart an parasite) H. balfouri P. ovis 

"o < P. falciparum (Sub-tertian Leucocytozoon cants P. equi 
ex. i parasite) L.funambuli P. cants 

1 P. pracox (Proteosoma) &c. &c. 

P. kochi (found in monkeys) 
&c. 



io6 



CHAPTER VI. 
PARASITES FOUND IN BLOOD PLASMA. 

THE most important animal parasites found in the 
plasma of the peripheral blood are trypanosomes and 
spirochaetae belonging to the Class Mastigophora, and 
embryos of various filaria, nematode worms. 

In some of the lower animals haemogregarines are found 
during their motile stage, and the piroplasma pass a short 
period of their existence free and may be found in the 
plasma. The haemamcebidae are not found in the 
plasma, though for a brief period the "spores " must be 
free. As stated in the preceding chapter, according to 
Schaudinn the halteridium has a free stage in the plasma. 

In freshly shed blood trypanosomes are readily seen 
as actively motile, worm-like bodies darting about be- 
tween the blood corpuscles. Their movements are so 
rapid and they are so transparent that it is difficult to 
make out their form clearly in the living condition. 

The largest trypanosomes are found in fish (Plate I., 
26), both fresh and salt water. They can readily be 
demonstrated in small fish by cutting oft' their heads and 
making a smear on the slide with the cut surface. These 
smears can be examined fresh by placing a cover-glass on 
the top of the exuded fluid, or the films can be dried and 
stained. 

Trypanosomes are found in some birds. The method 
of examination of the blood for these is the same as that 
required for the haemosporidia. If a small bird is to be 
examined it is held in the palm of the left hand and one 
leg is allowed to protrude between the fingers. A needle 



TRYPANOSOMA 107 

is then inserted deeply into the vascular pad surrounding 
the root of the claw and left there for half a minute. On 
squeezing the leg so as to force the blood towards the 
claw the blood will exude in drops, and films can be 
made as with human blood. With larger birds an 
assistant is necessary to hold the bird, and the bird should 
be wrapped in a thick cloth for the protection of the 
assistant. 

The trypanosomes that have attracted most attention 
are those of the mammalia. Several species are known ; 
they closely resemble each other in their appearance, but 
differ in size, shape, and motility to some extent ; also in 
the positions they assume and the way in which they 
stain (Plate I., 26, 27, and Plate IV., 21, 22). They may 
be differentiated by their pathogenic action. By inocu- 
lating with the blood a series of animals, it will then be 
found which animals are immune and which are suscep- 
tible. For such inoculation the blood must be mixed with 
some fluid that will prevent coagulation. Sodium citrate 
solution, 10 per cent., may be used, and the blood should 
be diluted with one-twelfth of this solution. Others use 
a weaker solution of citrate of soda, i per cent., and 
dilute the blood more freely. Injection of such diluted 
blood into the subcutaneous tissues will lead to infec- 
tion with trypanosomata of the animal which has been 
injected if it is susceptible. 

The more important of the trypanosomata are : 

(1) Those found in a large proportion of the rats in 
both tropical and temperate climates. These are non- 
pathogenic to full-grown rats, and all other animals 
experimented on are insusceptible to the infection (T. 
lewisi, Plate IV., 21). 

(2) NAGANA or "TSETSE-FLY DISEASE." The try- 
panosoma of this disease (T. brucei) can be inoculated into 
a large number of wild and domesticated animals, but 
man is insusceptible. To cattle, horses, donkeys, dogs, 
guniea-pigs, rats, &c., this parasite is pathogenic, but the 
time required to cause death varies greatly in these 



108 TRYPANOSOMIASIS 

animals. Wild game, and particularly the buffalo, harbour 
the parasite, which appears to be harmless to them (Plate 
L, 27). It is carried from animal to animal by biting flies 
belonging to the genus Glossina, usually by G. morsitans. 

(5) SURRA (T. evansi). A disease fatal to horses ; cattle 
often recover. It occurs in India, Philippines, &c. It 
is carried by various biting flies, such as some of the 
tabanidae. 

In the living condition it can be distinguished from 
T. brncei by its greater activity, as it not only moves but 
actually progresses. 

(4) DOURINE (T. equiperdum). Europe. Rats, dogs, 
rabbits, &c., are susceptible. Cattle, sheep and goats 
are refractory. Transmitted by coitus with the semen. 

(5) MAL DE CADERAS (T. equinum). South America. 
Cattle are immune ; most of the other animals are sus- 
ceptible. 

T. THEILERI. South Africa. Cattle only are sus- 
ceptible. No other animal has yet been inoculated 
successfully. It is the largest of the trypanosomes found 
in mammals. 

(7) T. DIMORPHUM occurs in horses in Africa. Various 
animals are susceptible. The parasite occurs in several 
forms. 

(8) T. GAMBIENSE (Plate IV., 22). Man is insus- 
ceptible to all the above-mentioned trypanosomes, but 
in Africa, on the West Coast and throughout a large 
part of Central Africa, another species has been found in 
man. The parasites are found in small numbers in the 
blood in most cases, particularly in chronic cases, but 
can be found in larger numbers in fluid drawn with 
an aspirating needle from a lymphatic gland. The 
symptoms are constant irregular pyrexia, enlarged lym- 
phatic glands, usually in the neck or above the clavicle, 
erythematous rash. Enlargement of spleen and liver 
have been noted. Monkeys are susceptible, and, though 
not so readily, white rats and guinea-pigs. After a longer 
or shorter period in man grave cerebral symptoms super- 



STAINING TRYPANOSOMES IO9 

vene, usually of the lethargic condition known as "sleeping 
sickness," and the patient dies. In this stage of the 
disease trypanosomes are found in the cerebro-spinal 
fluid. They are not numerous, and it is necessary to 
centrifugalise the fluid to demonstrate them. 

For the examination of blood for trypanosomes, films 
prepared as for malaria are the best, as the parasite will 
then be seen undistorted. When the parasites are scanty 
and for purely diagnostic purposes, thicker films de- 
colourised by the action of water may be used. In some 
infections the parasites can only be found by injecting a 
highly susceptible animal with the blood of a suspected 
case, as a large infection may then result in the animal 
which has been injected. This proceeding is necessary 
in many cases of dourine. In centrifugalised blood the 
parasites accumulate in the upper part of the mass of 
red corpuscles and can be found there more readily than 
by the ordinary method. 

Trypanosomes stain rather feebly with most basic 
stains, haematoxylin, methylene blue, &c. A stronger 
basic stain, such as carbol fuchsin, should therefore be 
used. Clearer specimens are obtained by diluting the 
stain with two parts of water and leaving to stain for ten 
minutes. 

Good results can also be obtained by overstaining with 
this stain and then decolourising with J per cent, solution 
of glacial acetic acid in water, but the parasite is often 
swollen and distorted, though quite recognisable. 

Leishman's stain, used as for other blood work, gives 
excellent results with fresh specimens and shows well 
the various points in the structure. The body is elon- 
gated and the posterior extremity is bluntly truncated, 
whilst the anterior is prolonged into a long flagellum, 
rarely in two. The flagellum is continued as a definite 
curved rod in the body of the parasite. Slightly posterior 
to the termination of the flagellum is a deeply staining 
nodule the centrosome. About the middle of the body 
is a rounded mass, larger but less defined the nucleus. 



no 



MULTIPLICATION OF TRYPANOSOMES 



In fission forms the centrosome first divides, then succes- 
sively flagellum, nucleus and protoplasm (fig. 36). The 
protoplasm with Leishman's stain is blue. The centre- 
some, nucleus and flagellum are red. 




FIG. 36. 



The multiplication is by fission. These fission forms 
are rarely found in the peripheral blood. Occasionally 
there are two flagella, with no signs of fission in centro- 
some or nucleus. 

The human trypanosome is said to be carried by 
G. palpalis, but other species of glossina are also sus- 
pected of acting as carriers. 

The mode of transmission may be direct, the trypano- 



SPIROCH/ETA 1 1 I 

somes being taken from any infected animal, and without 
any further development in the fly enter the next animal 
bitten. No sexual phase has been observed in the try- 
panosomes. Further work is much required on this 
subject. 

The spirochaeta of relapsing fever Spirochceta ober- 
meieri (fig. 37) is now generally believed to belong to 
the Mastigophora. They can be seen in fluid blood 
films made as for malarial blood. The organisms are very 
transparent and can only be seen in fresh fluid prepara- 
tions with the diaphragm nearly closed. They are then 
seen as fine, transparent, thread-like bodies, which are in 
active movement and coil and uncoil themselves. They 
are also seen in the corkscrew-like forms which are com- 
monly drawn as representing them. 

Dried films are best thin. In such films the spirochaetae 
are seen in the undulating form (fig. 376). In thicker 
films they appear more frequently coiled up (fig. 370). 
The spirochaetae stain with all basic stains, but not 
intensely, and are best demonstrated by the use of the 
stronger basic stains, such as carbol fuchsin (Plate 
IV., 23). 

They stain well by Leishman's method or with Giemsa. 
Ordinarily no definite structure can be made out. 

The disease can be reproduced in monkeys, and less 
readily in rats. African tick fever has been shown by 
Ross and Milne to be caused by a similar spirochaeta 
S. duttoni. In appearance it closely resembles S. obermeieri, 
but is more readily inoculated into lower animals, rats, 
guinea-pigs, &c. The pathogenicity of the two parasites 
differs, and infection with one does not affect the sus- 
ceptibility to infection by the other spirochaetae. 

There is leucocytosis and marked relative increase of 
the polymorphonuclear leucocytes. This increase per- 
sists to some extent in the periods of apyrexia, so that a 
differential count of the leucocytes may exclude malaria. 

The spirillum shows no signs of longitudinal division 
in the blood, and in human blood has no tendency to 



112 SPIROCH^TA 

great variation in length. It is found in the plasma, 
never in the red blood corpuscles. The spleen enlarges, 
and in fatal cases spirilla are found in large numbers in 
that organ. The organisms are found in greatest number 
during the first pyrexial period. In the apyrexial period 
they are not to be found, and in the subsequent pyrexial 
attacks they are found in smaller numbers than in the 
primary attack. In some cases the disease passes on 
into a chronic condition of irregular pyrexia secondary 
fever it is exceptional to find the parasites during that 
period. 




Spirochaetae are found in the mouth and sometimes in 
faeces. In various syphilitic lesions, in yaws, in scleros- 
ing granuloma and in many ulcers spirochaetae are found. 
The best known of these is S. pallida, found in syphilis. 
Spirochaetae are found in the blood of many of the lower 
animals. 

Schaudinn believed that the spirochaetae are closely 



LEISHMAN-DONOVAN BODIES 



related to the trypanosomes, and therefore belong to the 
ftagellatei. He considered them to result from the repeated 
longitudinal division of the trypanosomes, the nucleus 
and centrosome becoming both elongated and attenuated. 




FlG. 38. a, Single trypanosome much enlarged ; b t stage of fission ; 
c, parasites still attached by posterior ends ; d, same, both parasites com- 
mencing to divide, nucleus and blepharoplast divided ; <?, resultant stage of 
division ; /, one of the four spirilla into which c has divided. 

Leishman-Donovan Bodies. These parasites are found 
in the blood, in some cases in the leucocytes, either in 
the large mononular or in the polymorphonuclear. 

Possibly a free flagellate form may, in time, be found 
in the plasma, as in cultures the bodies develop flagella. 
These flagellate forms have not been observed in man. 

The bodies are found in the spleen, liver, lymphatic 
glands, lungs and submucosa, and occur in these situa- 
tions, particularly in the spleen and liver, in enormous 
numbers. They are contained in the endothelial cells, 
and in masses imbedded in a hyaline matrix between 
the cells. 

They can be observed in smears from the organs taken 
after death, or by puncture and aspiration, with a hypo- 
8 



114 LEISHMAN- DONOVAN BODIES 

dermic syringe, of the spleen or liver. Fatal accidents 
have resulted from puncture of the spleen, and punctures 
of the liver should therefore be made, though the para- 
sites are not found so readily in the fluid drawn from 
the liver. 

A large all-glass syringe is convenient for the pur- 
pose. The needle should not be too fine. The skin 
must be carefully sterilised over the selected place and 
the syringe and needle sterilised dry. The needle should 
be plunged right into the liver, so that it moves with the 
movements of the liver. It should be rotated and with- 
drawn a little, but still kept in the liver before aspiration. 
The aspiration should not be too forcible. 

If much blood comes this will so dilute the fluid con- 
taining the Leishman-Donovan bodies that a prolonged 
search may be necessary to find them. 

They swell up and break down on the addition of 
water, so that thick decolourised blood films cannot be 
used. It is for this same reason that the syringe used 
for aspirating must be dry. 

The bodies are small, round, or oval masses of proto- 
plasm, which stain faintly with basic stains, and contain 
two chromatin masses, which stain deeply with ordinary 
basic stains, and with the polychrome methyl blue a 
deep red. These two chromatin masses are unequal in 
size. The larger is oval, is situated to one side of the 
parasite, and stains with Leishman a decided red, but 
not very deeply. The smaller is rod-shaped, and stains 
intensely red with Leishman. It usually is directed point- 
ing obliquely towards the nucleus. (Fig. 39.) 

These bodies are much the same size as blood platelets, 
but the peculiar chromatin masses render them easy to 
recognise. They are frequently found in clumps. 

In the peripheral blood they may be found in thin 
films within leucocytes, but as many leucocytes as pos- 
sible should be present, as only i in 100 to 500 will 
contain the bodies. The edges and ends of the films 
contain most leucocytes, and the number can be in- 




FIG. 39. 



Face p. 114. 



LEISHMAN-DONOVAN BODIES 115 

iased by suddenly lifting the upper slide off the lower 
one, in making a film by the ordinary method. There 
is always some anremia, and degenerate red corpuscles 
are common. The leucocytes are scanty, only 2,000 to 
4,000 per cubic millimetre. The mononuclear elements 
are relatively increased. 

Leishman-Donovan bodies were considered by Leishman 
to resemble, in the arrangement of the chromatin masses, 
degenerate forms of trypanosomes. Laveran suggested 
a resemblance to piroplasmata. 




FIG. 40. a, Trypanosomes and the altered forms found in culture ; b t Leish- 
man-Donovan bodies and the altered forms found in culture. 



Rogers and others have shown that in cultures in sterile 
citric acid solution or in sodium citrate, 2*5 per cent, solu- 
tion, "the bodies become much elongated and form a 
flagellum, showing that they are the resting stage of a 
flagellate (fig. 406, i, 2, 3). 

It had previously been shown that trypanosomes could 
be kept alive for some time in a medium rich in haemo- 
globin, and that forms (? degeneration forms) were pro- 
duced which had no flagellum, whilst the form of the 
organism became round and the centrosome was brought 
nearer to the nucleus (fig. 40*2, i, 2, 3). 

It is now considered to be established that the bodies 
belong to Mastigophora or Flagellata, but not to the 
genus Trypanosouia, as there is no undulating membrane 
and the flagellum emerges from the end at which the 
centrosome is placed. It is probably a Herpetomonas. 



Il6 DELHI BOIL 

Flagellate forms may be discharged from the ulcers in 
the intestines in kala-azar, the disease due to the Leish- 
man-Donovan bodies. 

Delhi Boil. Scrapings from the raw surface in these 
ulcers show a considerable number of bodies closely 
resembling Leishman-Donovan bodies. The two diseases 
are probably distinct, and therefore the parasites in Delhi 
boil are probably of a different species from those found 
in kala-azar. 



NEMATODA 117 



CHAPTER VII. 

PARASITES OTHER THAN PROTOZOAL FOUND IN HUMAN 

BLOOD. 

ANIMAL parasites are found in human blood belonging 
to higher orders of animal life. 

Schistosotnum hcematobium (Bilharzia) and S. japonicum 
frequent the veins of the portal system and pelvis (vide 
Trematoda}. 

NEMATODES. One species of filaria in the adult form 
has been once found in the circulatory system of man 
by Magalhaes in Brazil, but no further observations have 
been made. The worms were found in a blood clot on 
the left side of the heart. 

In the lower animals nematode worms are not un- 
common in the blood. Filaria immitis is found in the 
right side of the heart and pulmonary vessels of the dog, 
and in the East and in some of the Pacific Islands it is 
exceptional to find a dog free from these parasites. 
When the worms are in large numbers cardiac dilatation 
and death result. Various nematode worms in horses 
and other animals cause " verminous aneurisms." 

Of the human filaria the adults are found in various 
parts of the body, whilst the embryos may be discharged 
through an aperture in the skin, as in Filaria medinensis 
(guinea-worm), and probably also in Filaria volvulus, a 
worm found in a subcutaneous cyst in a patient in Sierra 
Leone. In those filaria in which we are at present more 
specially interested, the embryos find their way into the 
blood and circulate with that fluid. 

Filaria sanguinis hominis. The filarial embryos, or 



Il8 MICROFILARIA 

microfilaria, as seen in fresh blood, are clear, transparent, 
worm-like bodies, which are in active movement. They 
are most readily found in a fresh fluid blood film, as 
the active movements and the disturbance in the red 
corpuscles set up by their movement catch the eye. An 
inch or two-thirds inch objective is quite sufficient 
magnification for the detection of the commonest filariae, 
but it is better to use a half-inch, as the smaller species 
may be overlooked with the two-thirds objective. The 
film must not be so thin as that required for examina- 
tion for malaria parasites. No special precautions are 
required, and sufficient blood should be taken to com- 
pletely fill the space between the slide and cover-glass. 
As the slide must be kept for a sufficient period to enable 
the movements of the worm to cease, the cover-glass 
should be ringed with vaseline to prevent evaporation of 
the blood. 

To examine the embryos in detail, higher powers, in- 
cluding a one-twelfth oil immersion, are required. At 
first the movements of the filaria are so active that it 
is impossible to examine it with these objectives, but 
after some hours the movements become much more 
sluggish, and finally cease. The best time for examina- 
tion is just before the cessation of movement and the 
death of the embryo. The points to observe in the 
examination of the fresh embryos are : 

(1) The character of the movement and whether 
active locomotion takes place or whether the move- 
ment, however active, leads to no progression. 

(2) The size of the embryo. This is of the 
greatest importance, as measurements of dried 
specimens vary greatly with the rapidity with which 
the film has dried. 

(3) The shape of the embryo and that of the two 
ends. 

(4) The presence or absence of a loose sheath. 

(5) Any details of structure, and particularly the 
presence, position and character of any contractile 



DIAGNOSIS OF MICROFILARIA 119 

vesicles, the so-called V spots, and the cephalic 
movements and any appearance of armature. 

Embryos can also be readily observed in dried films. 

The blood films for diagnostic purposes should be as 
thick as possible. A convenient way of making them is 
to allow three or four large drops of blood to fall on a 
slide close together and smear them together into a 
space about two-thirds of an inch in diameter (fig. 41). 
Allow to dry, protecting the films from insects during the 
process. Such a film will be so thick as to be almost 






I 



FIG. 41. 

opaque. It must not be fixed. When quite dry place 
in distilled water and leave in the water till the haemo- 
globin is all dissolved out. It is best to have the film 
side downwards in the water, but not resting on the 
bottom of the vessel. As the haemoglobin dissolves out 
it will fall to the bottom of the vessel. It will be found 
better after a few minutes to transfer the slide to clean 
water, so that it is easy to observe when the haemoglobin 
is all removed. 

Remove the slide from the water and examine at once 
whilst still wet. The white corpuscles will stand out 



120 



STAIXIXG OF MICROFILAR1A 



from the film as refractile spots and the white colourless 
worms will also stand out brilliantly. 

If it is preferred to stain the specimen it should be 
allowed to dry and fixed in alcohol and ether. Any basic 
stain gives good results, and weak carbol fuchsin is per- 
haps the best of the aniline stains. Haematoxylin gives 
good and permanent results, but the sheathed filariae do 
not stain rapidly. If the haematin mixture is used it 
should be warmed, and fifteen or twenty minutes will be 
required for satisfactory staining purposes ; the slide 
should then be left in water for ten minutes. A good 
many slides can be stained at the same time. For this the 
staining vessel (fig. 42) is convenient. 




FIG. 42. 



Counter-staining brings out nothing more, but eosin 
may be used for this purpose. 

The shape of the worm, and also the sheath if present, 
are well shown in a specimen stained with haematoxylin. 
The body of the worm is found to contain a core of deeply 
staining points or nuclei. These do not extend to either 
extremity, nor do they completely fill the worm, as a 
clear, unstained portion is left on each side. This un- 
stained portion must not be mistaken for the sheath. 
The sheath will be faintly stained and only clearly seen 
at the two ends, where it will be found flattened on 
itself and often folded sharply like a piece of ribbon. 



MICROFILARIA 

[n the nuclear core complete or incomplete gaps in the 
mass of nuclei will be seen in most filariae. For each 
species the position of these gaps is constant, or nearly 
so, and consequently the exact position of these gaps is 
important for the differentiation and identification of 
species from the examination of these embryos (Plate 

II, 17, 18, 19). 

The arrangement of the nuclear core at the blunt 
cephalic end is of particular importance, as it is an 
additional point used in the diagnosis of species. In 
the Microfilaria nocturna the nuclei are loosely arranged 
at this end, whilst in Microfilaiia dinrna they form a 
compact mass terminating almost as a straight line. 

Embryos of some species of filaria are not found in 
the same number all through the twenty-four hours. 
During a part of this period they may be found in 
numbers, whilst a few hours later they are found with 
difficulty or not at all. Thus one species has a periodicity 
which is called nocturnal, because the embryos are found 
in largest numbers in the peripheral blood at night ; 
in other species embryos are only found in the daytime 
and are said to have a diurnal periodicity. Embryos of 
other species are found in fairly equal numbers at all 
times of the day and night. 

In any investigation of the periodicity of nlarial em- 
bryos it is essential that the blood examined should be 
measured. 

The periodicity can be altered in the case of Filaria 
nocturna by changing the habits of the host, and cases 
are fairly common in which the periodicity is reversed 
without known cause. It is still more common to find 
small numbers of F. nocturna during the day and larger 
numbers at night. 

The chief points of difference in the various embryo 
filariae are indicated in the subjoined table. 

These points require no detailed explanation. 

It is well to draw the embryos accurately with a draw- 
ing camera or camera lucida. By substituting a scale for 



122 



MICROFILARIA SPECIES 



the object a scale can also be drawn on the same paper 
and measurements made from this, which are easier and 
usually more accurate than measurements made with a 
micrometer eyepiece. 



Name of embryo 


Length 


Greatest 
thickness 


Sheath 


Shape of 
tail 


Periodicity 


Distance 
of head 

ga h P ead m 


Adult 
(known or 
suspected) 




mm. 


mm. 








mm. 




Filaria nocturna 


317 


0075 


Present 


Sharply 


Nocturnal 


052 


F. bancrofli. 










pointed 


in peri- 
















ph e r al 
















blood 






Filaria diurna . . , 


'3*7 


007 


Present 


Sharply 


Diurnal in 





F. loa. 










pointed 


periphe- 
















ral blood 






Filaria ferstans 


195 


0045 


Absent 


Blunt, 


None 


03 


F. perstans. 










truncated 








Fifaria detnar 


21 


005 


Absent 


Sharply 


None 


03 


F. ditnar- 


quayi 








pointed 






quayi. 


Filaria ozzardi... 


21 


005 


Absent 


Sharply 


None 


03 


F, ozzardi. 










pointed 









Periodicity refers to the time of appearance of embryos 
in the peripheral blood. With regard to this periodicity, 
it was for a long time not definitely known what became 
of the embryos during the time they were absent from the 
blood. Post-mortem examinations, however, have shown 
that in the case of persons harbouring this filaria where 
death has occurred during the day, the embryos are 
found in greatest numbers in the lungs and large vessels, 
though some may be found in the vessels of other viscera. 

In sections of the organs of such a person the micro- 
filaria are found in numbers. The material may be 
imbedded in either celloidin or paraffin, and should not 
be too thin, or such short lengths of the filaria will be 
cut that they cannot be easily identified. 

Haematoxylin solution, two minutes, is quite sufficient 
to stain the embryos in section, and there is no need 
to counter-stain. Transverse and oblique sections of 
numerous embryos will be found. In places longer 
lengths, or even complete embryos, which were lying 
in the plane of the section, may be seen. 



FILARIA 123 

As far as is known, no developmental changes take place 
in the human filarial embryos in the blood or human 
tissues, but there is evidence that some degree of growth 
does take place in some of the avian microfilaria whilst 
they are circulating in the blood. 

In the case of the human filaria, the next stage of 
growth occurs in several species of mosquitoes of different 
genera Culex, Anopheles, Mansonia, &c. and when a 
certain stage of maturity is reached the embryos are in- 
jected by the mosquito into man. At this stage, the em- 
bryos in the case of F. nocturna are i'5 mm. in length, 
the alimentary canal is complete, but the sexual organs 
are not developed. 

The further development in man has not been traced, 
but the adult forms of the species F. nocturna (F. ban- 
crofli) have been found by many observers always in, 
or in connection with, the lymphatic system. The other 
human adult filariae, F. perstans, F. demarquayi, F. ozzardi 
and F. loa (the adult form of F. diurna), are found 
in connective tissue, either subcutaneous or in the 
subperitoneal tissues. 

The adult human filariae are not very readily found. 
F. bancrofti are found in lymphatics in almost any part 
of the body, but as a rule, in the cases of elephantiasis, 
the adults are long dead and the positions they once 
occupied only indicated by lymphatic obstruction. F. 
perstans, though smaller, are more readily found, as they 
occur, at any rate in greatest numbers, in subperitoneal 
connective tissue, particularly at the base of the mesen- 
tery. F. demarquayi has been found by Dr. Galgey in 
the same position, and F. ozzardi has been once found 
in the subserous connective tissue of the anterior abdo- 
minal wall. 

F. loa can be seen when it passes under the skin or 
conjunctiva. It is difficult to extract, for as soon as an 
incision is made in the skin it rapidly moves away. 

F. immitis, the " worm in the heart" of dogs, is found 
in the cavity of the right side of the heart and the pul- 



124 FILARIA 

monary vessels. When only one or two worms are pre- 
sent they are usually in the smaller pulmonary arteries. 
Avian filariae occur in many positions. Some species are 
found in loose connective tissues, as in the neck, others 
in the limbs, and particularly in thickenings about the 
claws ; others in the submucous tissues, as in the crop ; 
and others in the blood-vessels, and even in the pouches 
formed by the semi-lunar valves. Adult filariae are easily 
mistaken for empty blood-vessels, small nerves and shreds 
of fibrous tissue. They are more readily recognised with 
slight magnification, and for this purpose a watchmaker's 
glass of about five-inch focal length is very useful. Those 
mounted in horn are best, and should be perforated at 
the sides, otherwise moisture condenses on the lens. The 
advantage of these glasses is that both hands are free, and 
it is easy to learn the use of this simple lens. 

In searching tissues for filaria a dark surface, such as 
a slab of slate, makes a good background, and the rough 
surface of the slate prevents the specimen slipping about. 
The tissue should be kept wet with normal saline solu- 
tion, as this keeps it transparent. The dissection should 
not be made with the tissues floating in water or salt 
solution, as strands of tissue are much more readily 
twisted or ravelled out if floating. 

DESCRIPTION OF FILARIA. Some authors construct a 
formula for the description of filariae based on the relative 
positions of various structures and the measurement of 
the worm at these places. The unit of measurement is 
the one-hundreth part of the length of the worm, so that 
the measurements are percentages of the length. Five 
measurements are taken by the author of the method 
Cobb commencing from the head : the base of the 
oesophagus, the nerve ring, the cardiac constriction, the 
fourth at the vulva in the female and the middle of the 
male, and the fifth at the anus (fig. 43). 

Many of these points are very difficult to make out in 
the human filariae. In living filariae the first of them is 
very variable in the same individual. As the head and 



FILARIA 



I2 5 



neck are capable of considerable contraction, the head 
cannot be taken as a fixed point to serve as the basis of 
a series of measurements. Also the whole formula is 
based on the assumption that the proportions of various 
parts of the body are constant in different individuals, 
which, according to Shipley, is not certain. 

Though we do not consider that this graphic method 
is applicable in many cases, still, where possible, it may 
be given. 

The human filariae resemble each other rather closely 
in their adult forms, and some of them require very 
careful examination for differentiation. Measurements 



FIG. 43. 



of the head and tail, making due allowance for the con- 
tractility of the worms, are of great importance. Par- 
ticular attention must be paid to the transparent cuticle, 
as there are important differences in its arrangement in 
different species, and these differences are constant for 
the individuals of each species. 

The measurements should be made, where possible, in 
the fresh worms, as serious shrinking and distortion 
occurs with most reagents. Alcohol and spirit cause 
great distortion. This can be diminished by placing the 
specimen first in dilute spirit, i to 3 of water, for a few 
hours, and then gradually increasing the strength, but 
however carefully this is done the distortion is great. 
Much less distortion is caused by spirit if the specimen 
is first hardened in formalin 2 per cent. 



126 



FILARIA 



FIG. 44. 
Head of Filaria bancrofti, ? . 



FIG. 45. 
Head of Filaria ozzardi y 



FILARIA 



127 



A general method for the treatment of nematodes is 
as follows : 

(1) Place the worms in a i per cent, saline solution 
and shake up. 

(2) Have ready alcohol (60 to 70 per cent.) which has 
been heated to the boiling point. This is best done in a 
porcelain dish over a flame protected by wire gauze. 
Transfer the worms from the saline solution to the hot 
alcohol, dropping them in one at a time, the worms will 
die in an extended position. 




FIG. 46. 

Tail of Filaria bancrofti, ? . 



FIG. 47. 
Tail of Filatia ozzarai, ? 



They may be preserved in 70 per cent, of alcohol till 
till required for examination. 

(3) For examination they are placed in a mixture of 
95 parts alcohol and 5 parts pure glycerine. The alcohol 
is then allowed to evaporate. In pure glycerine the 
worms become transparent. They may be studied in 
glycerine or mounted in glycerine jelly. 

If placed at once in glycerine without any preliminary 
treatment, there is, at first, some swelling, though when 



128 



FILARIA 





F. bancrofti 


F. perstans 


F. ozzardi 




Female 


Male 


Female 


Male 


Female 


Male 


Length 


80-90 mm. 


44 mm. 


70-80 mm. 


45 mm. 


81 mm. 


38 mm. 


Greatest breadth ... 


23 mm. 


I mm. 


12 mm. 


06 mm. 


21 mm. 


19 mm. 


Diameter of head ... 


055 


'OS 


07 


04 


'OS 


? 


Character of cephalic 

















? 


end 














Distance of genital 


'66- "i 5 mm. 





'6 mm. 





71 mm. 





pore from head 














(female) 














Diameter at point of 


14 mm. 





07 





12 





genital pore 














Distance from tail of 


225 





145 





23 , 





anus 














Cuticular thickening 


None 


None 


Double ter- 





None ... 


None ... 


on tip of tail 






minal cuti- 
cular thick- 














ening 








Spicules (male) 





Two unequal, 
anterior and 





Two unequal 
spicules 





? 






posterior, 














both retrac- 














tile 










Papillae (caudal) ... 


None 


None 


None 


Four preana) 


None ... 


None ... 










and one 














postanal. 














Very close 














to opening 














of cloaca 






Habitat 


Lymphatic system 


Connective tissue, usually 


subperitoneal 


Geographical distri- 
bution 


In most tropical regions ... 


Africa (West Coast and 
Central), British Guiana 


British Guiana ... 



FILARIA 



129 



f. deinarquayi 


F. loa 


F. magalhaesi 


Female 


Male 


Female 


Male 


Female 


Male 


65-80 mm. 


Not known ... 


50-55 mm. 


30-35 mm. 


155 mm. 


83 mm. 


2l-'25 mm. 





55 mm. 





'6 '7 mm. 


*3-'4 mm. 


I--09 











06 


04 


76 mm. 





2-35 mm. 





2^56 mm. 





I ,, 











58 





25 ,, 





3 mm. 


175 mm. 


13 





Cuticular thick- 
ening over 
tip. Knobby 
and irregular 
in outline 





No thickening 
over tip. 
Two lateral 
alae. Cuticu- 
lar bosses not 
found at tip, 
but over the 
greater part 
of the body 


Thickening 
over tip. The 
" bosses " so 
abundant ovei 
the cuticle in 
the body of 
the worm are 
not found at 
the tip 
Two unequal, 
anterior and 
posterior 


None 


None. 
Two spicules. 











Three preanal 
pairs and two 
postanal.The 
last are very 
small 





Four preanal 
and four 
postanal. 


Subperitoneal connective tissue 


Connective tissues, subcuta- 
neous, subconjunctival, or in 
the deeper parts of the limbs 


Left side of heart. 


West Indies 


West Africa 


Brazil. 



130 



FILARIA 



left long in the glycerine there is a return to a more 
natural condition. The specimens so prepared are much 
softened and can very readily be flattened out, and whilst 
thus gently compressed between two slides, be hardened 
in methylated spirit and finally in alcohol, and mounted 
after clearing in oil of cloves. Such specimens are very 




FIG. 48. 
Head of Filaria demarquayt, 



FIG. 49. 
Head of Filaria perstans, 



transparent and do not show much detail ; if, however, 
they are slowly stained with very dilute solutions of 
stains, such as dilute borax carmine, before placing in 
glycerine, many details of structure are brought out well. 
They can also be stained with well diluted haematoxylin, 



FILARIA 131 

and subsequently slightly decolourised with dilute acid 
spirit -J- per cent, to show in situ eggs and embryos. 

Many filariae show fairly well when mounted direct in 
glycerine jelly, but these, after a time, became distorted. 
If previously hardened by placing first in i per cent, 
formalin for two days and then in 2 per cent, formalin 
for two days, and then kept in 5 per cent, formalin for 





FIG. 50. 
Tail of Filaria demarquayi, <j> . 



FIG. 51. 
Tail of Filaria Persians, $ . 



some days, they can be mounted in glycerine jelly, or 
even in Farrant's solution, and retain their natural size 
and appearance. 

The different points enumerated in the tabular form 
are usually made out, but to see either the genital pore 
or the anal opening that portion of the worm must be 
viewed in profile. It is therefore necessary to turn the 
worm gently before mounting so that they can be seen. 



132 BACTERIA IN BLOOD 

This can generally be effected by slightly moving the 
cover-glass by pressure of its edge with a needle so as to 
roll the worm over slightly. 

The points of difference and resemblance are shown 
in the table (pp. 126-131, and in figs. 44 to 51) for the 
known adult human filariae. The description of F. ozzardi 
is from a single specimen. The embryos or microfilariae 
known as F. ozzardi and F. demarquayi correspond in 
every respect. As the single adult found of F. ozzardi 
differs from the specimens of F. demarquayi in some 
respects, the worms cannot be considered as the same, 
but further specimens are required before the question 
of the identity of the species can be considered to be 
settled. 

EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD FOR PATHOGENIC 
BACTERIA. Most of the organisms found in blood films 
are due to contamination with skin organisms during the 
preparation of the film. To avoid this the finger, which 
for this purpose is the most convenient part to examine, 
should be well washed with 2 per cent, lysol and then 
wrapped in a i in 500 sublimate compress covered with 
gutta-percha tissue for twelve hours. The first drop of 
blood should be rejected as the most likely to be con- 
taminated. Thick and thin films should be taken and 
rapidly dried. The thin films can be stained by Louis 
Jenner's and Leishman's stains, or the film can be fixed 
and stained by any of the methods used for bacteria. In 
thick films, after drying, the haemoglobin can be removed 
by placing in sterilised water, and afterwards fixed and 
stained. 

In most cases organisms are present in such minute 
numbers that they will not be found by this method, and 
the drops of blood obtained should be used for making 
cultures. The organisms of plague, septicaemia, tubercle, 
&c., may be found in the blood, but great caution must 
be exercised as mistakes are frequent. Cultivation of the 
organisms from blood drawn from a vein by a hypo- 
dermic syringe is more satisfactory. For this purpose 



BACTERIA IN BLOOD 133 

a few drops of blood should be placed in each of a 
series of flasks containing broth, so that great and rapid 
dilution of the blood takes place. The leucocytes will 
fall to the bottom of such flasks, and will not destroy 
so many of the organisms which may be present in the 
blood. 



134 



CHAPTER VIII. 

CERTAIN PROPERTIES OF BLOOD PLASMA AND BLOOD 

SERUM. 

THE living blood in the body is composed of a fluid 
element the plasma in which are suspended the solid 
elements, red and white corpuscles, blood platelets, and 
at times parasites. After death, and when the blood is 
shed, coagulation occurs, the blood plasma being con- 
verted into a jelly-like mass which soon contracts, and a 
fluid the blood serum separates. Parasites are usually 
included in the coagulum as well as the more solid ele- 
ments of the blood, such as the corpuscles. 

Blood Plasma. For certain purposes it is desirable 
that the blood should be kept fluid and coagulation 
prevented. This is requisite when we wish to inject 
blood containing living parasites, such as filariae, or try- 
panosomes, &c., or to obtain certain constituents of the 
blood, such as the white blood corpuscles. If the blood 
is allowed to coagulate, parasites contained in it are 
usually entangled in the blood clot. To prevent this, 
the blood should be quickly mixed with a 10 per cent, 
solution of citrate of sodium. One part of this solu- 
tion, if rapidly and thoroughly mixed, will prevent the 
coagulation of twenty-five parts of blood. Twice the 
quantity of a 5 per cent, solution is somewhat easier to 
work with and equally effective others use a normal 
citrate of soda solution, a much larger quantity being 
required. In these mixtures the blood corpuscles are 
not destroyed. 

To obtain blood in quantity such as is required for 
injecting into animals, it is best to plunge a hypodermic 
needle into a distended vein. The median basilic or 



BLOOD PLASMA 135 

median cephalic will be found most convenient. An 
all-glass syringe should be used. No powerful suction 
is required ; if the point of the needle is in the vein, by 
holding the syringe horizontally very little suction is 
necessary. When possible injections should be made at 
once with unmixed blood, if this is not possible the 
blood should be citrated. 

To study the characters and special properties of either 
the red or white corpuscles, coagulation must be pre- 
vented in the same way and the corpuscles rapidly 
separated by centrifugalising the blood. Such corpuscles 
may then be transferred by means of a pipette to normal 
saline solution, and will retain their properties for a 
considerable time. 

Coagulation Time. Blood varies greatly in the rapidity 
and firmness with which it coagulates, and the time re- 
quired is influenced by various diseases. Methods of 
estimating the coagulation time for clinical purposes are 
not very satisfactory, and all determinations must be 
made at a constant temperature. 

Wright's method is to draw up blood into a series of 
capillary tubes of uniform calibre, and attempt, by blow- 
ing at intervals of half a minute, to dislodge the blood. 
When it cannot be dislodged it has coagulated, and the 
time it has taken is the coagulation time. This simple 
method appears to give as good results as any. 

Specific Gravity. The specific gravity of the blood is 
another variable element, and is not easily determined 
accurately with the small amounts of blood that can be 
used for clinical purposes. 

Blood is dropped into a series of fluids of known 
specific gravity varying from 1035 to 1068, and the 
specific gravity of the fluid in which the blood neither 
sinks nor rises is of the same specific gravity as the 
blood. The fluids chiefly used are glycerine and water, 
or chloroform and benzol in varying proportions. 

Chemical Reaction. The reaction of the blood can be 
determined either by using glazed litmus paper previously 



136 BLOOD 

soaked in chloride of sodium solution, or a plaster of 
Paris disc soaked in neutral litmus solution. 

Spectroscopic Examination. In addition to haemoglobin 
we may have in the blood in some cases derivatives or 
modifications of haemoglobin. A small direct vision 
spectroscope is the most satisfactory method of deter- 
mining the presence of these substances. The blood 
should be laked by the addition of distilled water to 
render it sufficiently translucent. If it be desired to 
determine the presence or absence of haemoglobin from 
the serum another specimen of the blood should be 
allowed to coagulate, and when the serum has separated 
that should be examined separately. The diluted blood 
should be placed in a small vessel with two plane sides 
inclined towards each other at an acute angle, so that 
varying thicknesses of the fluid can be examined. 

Either ordinary daylight or a lamp can be used, and 
the spectrum should first be focussed as sharply as 
possible and the slit closed as much as is convenient to 
bring out Fraunhofer's lines distinctly. 

The spectra of oxyhaemoglobin and reduced haemo- 
globin can be readily obtained from the same specimen, 
either by shaking up with air to oxidise or reducing by 
the addition of ammonium sulphide (fig. 52, i and 2). 

Methaemoglobin gives two additional lines, as seen in 
the diagram, and the two lines between D and E are 
further apart and faint ; on the addition of alkali the 
spectrum changes and becomes more like that of oxy- 
haemoglobin (fig. 52, 4 and 5). Methaemoglobin is of 
considerable importance, as it colours the urine brown 
and not red. If no spectroscopic examination is made it 
will usually be overlooked. In some of the mildest cases 
of " Blackwater Fever " methaemoglobin and not haemo- 
globin may be found. Urobilin is shown by the single 
faint band between E and F (fig. 52). Bile in human 
urine causes no definite banding. 

The opposite table gives the spectra of haemoglobin 
and its derivatives ; some of these are only formed under 



aB C 



TONICITY 
ET? F 



137 




FIG. 5 2 - !> Oxyhsemoglobin ; 2, reduced haemoglobin; 3, CO. haemo- 
globin ; 4, methremoglobin ; 5, methsemoglobin (after addition of alkali) ; 
6, alkaline haematin ; 7, acid hsematin (etherial solution) ; 8, hoematopor- 
phyrin (acid) ; 9, hoematoporphyrin (alkaline) ; 10, bilirubin. 



138 TONICITY 

artificial circumstances and consequently are of little 
practical clinical value. 

The colouring matter of blood is haemoglobin, it forms 
some 90 per cent, of the red corpuscles, and is not found 
in blood plasma, nor, when the blood coagulates, in the 
serum. It can, however, be readily removed from the 
red corpuscles by the addition of water either to the 
fluid blood or to the freshly dried blood. 

Advantage is taken of this property when thick films 
are made, as in examining for filaria, in order to render 
a thick film transparent. To prevent the occurrence of 
this solution in making preparations for the examina- 
tion of thin films, " fixing agents," such as alcohol, per- 
chloride of mercury, formalin solution or vapour, or 
heat, are employed. 

Estimation of Tonicity. Different specimens of blood 
vary in power of the corpuscles in retaining their haemo- 
globin. Though distilled water will remove the haemo- 
globin completely from the corpuscles in fluid blood, 
saline solutions over a certain strength will not remove it. 
The resistance or "tonicity" of the blood corpuscles is 
measured by the strength of saline solution, which is just 
sufficient to prevent the solution of the haemoglobin. 
Such a solution is said to be " isotonic." Normal saline 
solution '75 per cent, prevents the solution of haemo- 
globin in blood. A series of weaker solutions differing 
in the amount by '02 per cent, is made, and a drop of 
blood is dropped into each, and after shaking allowed 
to stand. 

The weakest salt solution that does not cause solution 
of the haemoglobin is the index of the " tonicity " of the 
blood used. 

The strength of that solution gives the isotonic strength, 
which is the measure of the resistance of the blood, 
normally 0*46 to 0^48 per cent. A less accurate but more 
convenient method is to mix a measured amount of the 
blood with a measured amount of a solution, such as a 
3 per cent, solution, which is well above the isotonic 



TONICITY 139 

strength, and add gradually measured amounts of water 
till the solution of the haemoglobin takes place ; from this 
the strength of the solution which just causes solution 
can be calculated. 

Wright's tubes with the air and mixing chamber are 
convenient for the purpose. The tonicity of the blood is 
of considerable importance, as a decrease in the tonicity 
often precedes a haemolytic attack. This occurs in black- 
water fever, and persons whose blood is of a low degree 
of tonicity should not be allowed to live in countries 
where this disease is endemic. 

These methods assume that the red corpuscles in the 
blood are all equal as regards their tonicity, or nearly so. 
This is not the case, as even in healthy blood an occa- 
sional corpuscle will be found, that will be decolourised 
in a stronger solution of salt than the others, and also a 
few will retain their haemoglobin when all the others are 
decolourised. With healthy blood the great majority of 
the corpuscles may be equal, but with blood in some 
diseases, a much larger degree of red corpuscles are of a 
lower degree of tonicity than the average. 

To determine the range of variation of tonicity in the 
corpuscles the blood should be first well diluted with a 
strong salt solution, 4 per cent., which is hypertonic to 
all corpuscles. The mixing can be done in one of 
Wright's tubes. The tube is allowed to stand and the 
corpuscles will fall to the bottom, and by heating the 
air chamber can then be expelled into a clean watch 
glass. 

Hanging drop preparations of this blood, diluted with 
one, three, or seven parts of distilled water, will be equiva- 
lent to 2 per cent, and i per cent, and '5 of salt solution. 
An examination of these hanging drops will show if any 
considerable proportion of the corpuscles have lost their 
haemoglobin. If none or very few are decolourised with 
the i per cent, salt solution the remainder of the red 
corpuscles in the watch glass in 4 per cent, salt solution 
should be diluted with three parts of distilled water in 



14 TONICITY 

one of Wright's tubes and well mixed in the mixing 
chamber. The fluid can be expelled into a clean watch 
glass and a series of dilutions, as hanging drops, made. 
One part diluted with one of water will give *5 per cent., 
with two of water -33 per cent. Two parts of the diluted 
blood with one of water will give '66 per cent., and so 
on. In this manner, by examining a series of these 
hanging drops, and determining the proportion of the 
" shadow " corpuscles which can be easily seen with an 
oil immersion if the light is cut off, the proportion of 
corpuscles of lower index of tonicity than represented by 
these solutions can be determined. 

When the haemoglobin is dissolved in the serum the 
blood is said to be "laked." Dissolved haemoglobin is 
found in the serum in acute haemolytic processes, but 
appears to be rapidly removed either by the hepatic or 
renal cells, converted by the liver into bilirubin, or 
deposited in the subcutaneous tissues. The yellow tint 
of skin and conjunctiva in some diseases which simulate 
jaundice is of this nature, and is called haematogenous 
jaundice. The yellow tinge round old bruises is due 
to the solution of the haemoglobin of the extravasated 
blood. 

Normal blood serum is " hypertonic," that is, not only 
is it sufficient to prevent the solution of haemoglobin 
from the red corpuscle, or is isotonic, but is considerably 
above that strength. This excess of tonic value is not 
simply due to the amount of salts ; it varies consider- 
ably and is estimated by determining the dilution with 
water required to render it isotonic as regards normal 
red corpuscles. This can be determined either by using 
a series of dilutions and dropping (with distilled water, 
or as a series of hanging drops in Wright's tubes) blood 
into each, or by diluting to a known extent a mixture of 
blood and serum. 

Blood Scrum. Blood serum is required for several 
purposes, notably for the demonstration of the presence 
or absence of specific agglutinins. 



SERUM 141 

The glass tubes devised by Wright afford a ready 
method of obtaining and diluting serum. The simplest 
form is to draw out a piece of glass tubing of about one- 
quarter inch diameter. In drawing out the tube it is well 
to rotate it in the flame until it is quite soft at the required 
place, then removing it from the flame, pull steadily. In 
this way tubes of more uniform size are obtained than if the 
traction be exercised while the tube is still in the flame. 
The thin tube thus formed should be broken, and at a 
convenient distance another portion of the tube should 
be heated and pulled out in the same manner, or bent as 
shown in fig. 53.* One of the capillary extremities should 




FIG. 53. 

be sealed. A puncture with a broad needle or small 
knife should be made in the skin and the upper half of 
the unexpanded tube, that towards the sealed end should 
be heated in the flame of a spirit lamp, which is Righted 
and placed close at hand before the skin is punctured. 
Holding the lower part of the tube which has not 
been drawn between the fingers to make sure that it is 
not too hot, the open drawn-out end is placed in the 
exuding blood. As the air in the tube cools and con- 
tracts the blood will be drawn up into the tube. If there 
is not enough or the blood is not drawn entirely up into 
the thick part of the tube by the time it is cool, the sealed 

* We are indebted to the kindness of the proprietors of the Lancet for the 
use of fig. 53. 



142 SERUM 

end can be broken off and the upper end of the thick 
tubing again heated and the same end again sealed. 
The contraction of the air will be sufficient to draw more 
blood up, and the blood already in the tube higher up. 
When sufficient blood is in the tube and the tube is cool, 
the lower end through which the blood entered can be 
sealed. The tube is now placed on its side, horizontally, 
till the blood coagulates, and is then placed vertically, so 
that as the serum is expressed by the contraction of the 
clot it will run down into the narrow part of the tube. 
In this way clear serum, free from blood corpuscles, can 
be obtained without using a centrifuge. Capillary vac- 
cination tubes can be used to collect the blood, but will 
require to be centrifugalised to obtain clear serum. 



FIG. 54. 

Serum, however prepared, requires dilution for most 
purposes, and the degree of dilution is important. The 
graduated pipette of a haemocytometer may be used for 
this purpose. A very convenient method of obtaining 
any degree of dilution is by Wright's tubes. A piece of 
glass tubing is drawn out sharply in the middle so as to 
make a short, sharp constriction. About an inch and a 
half from this constriction on each side the tubing is 
drawn out into a long, thin capillary tube. One of these 
is broken off and sealed, and the other, preferably the 
more uniform and thicker, is touched with a file, broken 
off square and left open. The part above the middle 
constriction with the sealed capillary tube attached is 
called the air chamber, and that below in connection with 
the open capillary tube is called the mixing chamber. 
A narrow mark is made on the open capillary tube with 
a grease pencil about an inch or less from the open end. 
This distance depends on the calibre of the tube, the 



DILUTION OF SERUM 143 

greater this is the shorter the distance from the open end 
to the mark, as the volume of the column of fluid between 
the open end and the mark is the unit of measurement. 
The finger or ear is pricked, and from the blood obtained 
the serum is allowed to separate as above and blown out 
into a sterile watch glass. The air chamber is then 
well heated, and the open end of the tube is placed 
in the blood serum till the serum runs up to the mark. 
The tube is then removed from the serum and a little 
air enters the tube as the air in the hot air chamber 
contracts, the open end is then placed in the diluting 
fluid and withdrawn as soon as the fluid reaches the grease 
pencil mark ; it is then withdrawn, but as soon as air 
has entered the tube it can be replaced in the fluid and 
again withdrawn when the mark is reached. This can 
be repeated as long as the air in the air chamber contracts. 
If repeated nine times there will be nine parts of the 
diluent to one of the blood serum. As the fluid by con- 
traction of the air in the air chamber is all drawn up into 
the mixing chamber, it can there be well mixed by rapidly 
rotating between the palms of the hands. 

This procedure would give a dilution of i in 10, and 
by continuing the process greater dilutions would be 
obtained ; but it is better, if high dilutions are required, 
such as i in 100 or i in 1,000, after well mixing the serum 
and diluent to expel a part of it into a sterilised watch 
glass by heating the air chamber. 

The expelled diluted serum is further diluted in a 
second tube in exactly the same manner as the first 
dilution, and from this a third, and in turn a fourth, 
dilution can be made. The tubes with the diluted serum 
may be sealed up and kept for some time if necessary. 

If it be desired, a known amount of a broth culture of 
an organism can be in the same manner drawn up into 
the mixing chamber and there mixed with diluted or 
undiluted serum. 

Wright uses india-rubber teats to draw up the fluid 
(vide fig. 55), but as in the Tropics india-rubber does not 



144 SERUM 

keep well, the air chamber drawn out into a long capillary 
tube is more satisfactory. Wright, when using an air 
chamber, blows it out into a bulb so as to have a larger 
volume of air, but a smaller air chamber is sufficient in 
most cases, and if it cools too rapidly, so that the air 
ceases to contract, the sealed end may be broken off, and 
whilst the tube is still open the air chamber can be heated 
and the tube again quickly sealed. This can be repeated 
as often as one wishes if a large volume of serum or 
blood is required in the mixing chamber. 



FIG. 55. 

Instead of serum the blood itself can be mixed with a 
diluent in a similar manner, and the diluted blood used 
for counting leucocytes or red corpuscles. It is necessary 
that the diluent should be one that will prevent coagula- 
tion and will not cause destruction of the red corpuscles. 
Gower's solution is fairly satisfactory, or if it be desired 
to stain the leucocytes, Toisson's fluid may be used. The 
mixing for uniform and successful results must be done 
quickly, otherwise part of the blood may coagulate or 
the corpuscles adhere together in masses. 

In addition to agglutinins other substances may be 
formed in serum as a result of infection by micro- 
organisms. These include the toxins and antitoxins, 
i.e., the poisonous products of the growth of organisms 
and substances that neutralise these poisonous products ; 
also haemolysins or substances that have a destructive 
action on blood corpuscles. 

Precipitins. A class of substances which promise to be 
of much practical importance are the precipitins. It is 
found that if blood of one animal, as, for instance, man, 
be repeatedly injected into a rabbit, the constitutional 
disturbance set up by the injections becomes less and 



PRECIPITINS 



145 



less, and after a few injections they cease to cause any 
disturbance. It is further found that the blood serum 
of this rabbit, immunised as to human blood, will give 
a precipitate when added to a solution of human serum 
or of closely related animals, such as the ape, when much 
diluted, but not with solutions of serum of other animals, 
such as the Rodentia. 

Similarly, if a rabbit be immunised by repeated injec- 
tions of the blood of any animal of a different genus, 
horse, rat, pig, &c., the serum of the rabbit will give a 
precipitate with solutions of the serum of the horse, rat, 
and pig respectively, or animals closely related to them. 

This gives a new means of grouping animals and pro- 
mises to be of practical and medico-legal value. The 
immunised or test sera can only be made where proper 
appliances are available, but appear to keep well. 

The application of the test is easy. Clean white filter 
paper is soaked in the fresh uncoagulated blood of the 
animal and allowed to dry in the air. A portion of this 
paper is treated with normal saline solution. The clear 
solution thus obtained is placed in a small test tube 
(Durham's tubes are suitable) and a few drops of the test 
serum are added. A precipitate indicates that the blood 
was either that of the animal against whose blood the 
rabbit was immunised or a closely related one. 

Dr. Nuttall has made observations on a large series 
of animals, and the results obtained have been con- 
sistent, and in many ways have thrown light on the 
relationship of different animals. The filter papers, 
soaked in blood and well dried in the air, keep well 
and give the reaction after many months. It is im- 
portant that blood should be obtained from any rare 
animal and examined in this way to aid in its classifica- 
tion. The filter paper or white blotting paper should be 
soaked in the blood and clots removed. The blood must 
be fresh. The paper should then be allowed to thoroughly 
dry and, if possible, wrapped in wax paper and sent to 
England to be tested with the prepared sera. 
10 



146 OPSONINS 

Culture Medium. Blood serum makes an excellent cul- 
ture medium for many organisms, and some will not 
grow, or only grow with difficulty, in more artificial 
media. 

For the cultivation of trypanosomes the blood serum 
obtained after the blood has been " laked " is the most 
satisfactory medium. Such a fluid is a solution of haemo- 
globin in diluted blood serum. 

Opsonins. Another property of blood serum is the 
power it possesses of acting on pathogenic micro- 
organisms, and so altering them that they can be taken 
up and destroyed by the leucocytes. The substances to 
which the blood serum owes this property have been 
named by their discoverer, Wright, opsonins (Latin opsono, 
I prepare food for). Wright believes that the leucocyte 
is a constant factor in the phenomena of phagocytosis, 
and that the variable and most important factor is the 
amount of opsonin in the blood serum. It is further con- 
sidered probable that these opsonins have a high degree 
of specificity, that is to say, that there is a corresponding 
opsonin for each organism ; that for the tubercle bacillus, 
for example, has no action on staphylococci and vice 
versa. 

In order to estimate the amount of opsonin present in 
a blood serum for a given organism there is required: 

(1) The serum to be tested. 

(2) The serum of a healthy person to be used as a 
control. 

(3) An emulsion of the given organism in normal saline 
solution. This emulsion may contain either living or 
dead organisms, and they should be present in such 
numbers as to admit of their being readily counted in 
the leucocytes. 

(4) Leucocytes washed free from plasma. 

To obtain these allow about i cc. of blood from a 
healthy person to drop into 10 cc. of normal saline 
solution containing i per cent, of sodium citrate. This 
mixture is now centrifugalised until the corpuscles have 



OPSONINS 

fallen to the bottom. The clear supernatant fluid is 
then pipetted off and replaced by normal saline solution. 
After further centrifugalisation the supernatant fluid is 
again removed, and the leucocytes, which form a creamy 
layer on top of the red blood cells, are ready for use. 

(5) Two pipettes prepared as described on p. 144 (fig. 55). 

As described under serum dilutions, draw up equal 
parts of (i) emulsion of organisms, (2) emulsion of leuco- 
cytes, (3) serum to be tested. Expel these on to a glass 
slide and mix thoroughly. Afterwards draw the moisture 
into the pipette and seal off the tip. Remove the rubber 
teat and place the pipette in an incubator, or in a vessel 
of water at 37 C., carefully noting the exact time. Now 
prepare a second pipette in the same way, using this time 
the normal serum instead of the serum to be tested. 
Place this under precisely the same temperature conditions. 

At the end of fifteen minutes in the case of each pipette 
expel the contents on a slide and prepare smears. The 
smears are then fixed and stained by a method suitable 
for the demonstration of the organisms. 

The stained smear should then be examined with a 
lens of lower power, and a part selected where leucocytes 
are present in greatest numbers. 

On examination with the oil immersion lens, it will 
be found that organisms have been taken up by the poly- 
morphonuclear leucocytes. The number of organisms 
in eighty such leucocytes should be counted, in the one 
case where the serum to be tested was used, and also in 
the other case where the control serum was used. 

The ratio between these two figures gives the opsonic 
index. For example, if in the smear prepared from the 
mixture in which the serum to be tested was used, it was 
found that 80 polymorphonuclear leucocytes contained 
95 organisms, and in the other smear the same number 
of polymorphonuclear leucocytes contained 190 organ- 
isms, then the opsonic index of the serum under examina- 
tion for that organism is T \% = '5. 



148 



CHAPTER IX. 

ARTHROPODA INSECTA. 

WITH the progress of the enquiry into the causation 
of disease it has come to be of importance that the 
investigator of tropical diseases should possess some 
knowledge of the blood-sucking flies, mosquitoes, ticks, 
fleas, &c., which are known or suspected to be con- 
cerned in the transmission of various infections. A brief 
account is here given of the more important members of 
the zoological division Arthropoda, to which these carriers 
of disease belong. 

The Arthropoda are bilaterally symmetrical segmented 
animals with a thick chitinous cuticle. To some of the 
segments are attached articulated ambulatory limbs it 
is from this feature that the name of the phylum was 
derived. 

The segments vary in number, and in some arthropods 
the segmentation is not obvious externally, but is inferred 
from the arrangement of internal structures, such as 
nerve ganglia. The cephalic segments, three in number, 
are always fused into one mass, the head the cephalic 
appendages are modified for purposes of mastication or 
suction and sensation. The three or four segments 
behind the head are often fused more or less completely 
to form the thorax, which may be united to the head to 
form the cephalo-thorax. To the thorax are attached 
the legs. The abdominal segments are usually distinct, 
but may be fused and united to the cephalo-thorax, as in 
some of the Arachnoidea. The abdominal appendages 
are essentially those connected with excretion and repro- 



ARTHROPODA 149 

duction, but may be so modified as to form "stings," or 
weapons of offence and defence. 

The sub-kingdom or phylum Arthropoda is divided 
into five groups : 

(1) Prototracheata. 

(2) Myriapoda (centipedes, millipedes, &c.). 

(3) Insecta (horse-flies, butterflies, mosquitoes, &c.). 

(4) Arachnoidea (spiders, ticks, &c.). 

(5) Crustacea (cyclops, &c.). 

The Insecta and Arachnoidea include the most im- 
portant carriers of disease, and will be considered first. 

Class INSECTA or HEXAPODA. The term Insecta was 
originally employed to embrace all those animals whose 
body is externally divided into segments, including butter- 
flies, beetles, centipedes, scorpions, &c. It is now used in 
a much more restricted sense to apply to such arthro- 
pods as have six walking-legs. The Insecta have the 
body distinctly divided into three regions head, thorax 
and abdomen. They take in air by means of tracheae, 
a system of tubes ramifying throughout the body and 
opening externally by means of orifices placed in pairs 
at the sides of the body. The appendages forming 
the mouth-parts are paired, and consist of mandibles, 
maxillae and labium, the pair in this latter part being 
combined to form a single body. To the head are also 
attached a pair of antennae. 

There are two pairs of wings, but one or both of these 
may be rudimentary or modified for purposes other than 
flight : sometimes even rudimentary wings appear to be 
absent. The wings are always placed on the thorax, and 
to this region also are attached the three pairs of legs. 

Insects in many of the orders undergo a variety of 
changes of form in the course of their development. 

In the system here adopted the insects are divided 
into nine great groups or Orders, the characteristics of 
which we give in brief. By " mandibulate mouth" is 
meant one in which the mandibles or maxillae, or both, 
are fitted for biting, crushing or grasping food. The 



150 INSECTA 

term " suctorial " implies that some of the mouth-parts 
are modified to form a tubular suctorial apparatus; this 
is frequently protected by a modification of other parts, 
which act as a sheath. 

(1) Aptera. Wingless insects. All wingless insects do 
not, however, belong to this order. Mouth mandibulate, 
or very imperfectly suctorial. 

Two sub-orders (i.) Thysanura ; (ii.) Colleinbola. 

(2) Orthoptera. Four wings, the front pair being leather- 
like, and usually smaller than the hind pair, which are of 
a more delicate structure and contract after the manner 
of a fan. Mouth mandibulate. 

This order includes earwigs, cockroaches, grasshoppers, 
crickets, &c. 

(3) Ncuroptera. Two pairs of membranous wings, 
frequently with much network ; the front pair similar 
to the hind ; the latter with little or no fanlike action in 
closing. Mouth mandibulate. 

This order includes dragon-flies, may-flies, termites, &c. 
There are some parasitic wingless forms, such as " bird- 
lice." Adult dragon-flies are destructive to other insects, 
and their larvae are very destructive to aquatic larvae, 
such as those of mosquitoes. Attention to the breeding 
of some species of dragon-flies, particularly of the 
Agrionidoty is important, as these breed in places similar 
to those in which larvae of.Culicidae are usually found. 

The larvae of Agrionidcz have short rounded bodies. 
Their mouth-parts are modified to form a protrusible 
mask with which they seize their prey. These larvae 
lurk at the bottoms of pools, puddles and streams, and 
are the most important of the natural enemies of mos- 
quito larvae. The adult Agrionidcc can be distinguished 
by the peculiar position of the wings, which are always 
inclined backwards, never at right angles to the body as 
in other dragon-flies. 

(4) Hymenoptera. Two pairs of membranous wings, 
the front pair larger than the hind, which are always 
small, and do not fold up in repose. Mouth mandibulate, 
sometimes also provided with a tubular proboscis. 



INSECTA 151 

This order includes bees, wasps, ants, &c. 

(5) Coleoptera. Two pairs of wings, the front pair 
shell-like and forming cases which meet together over 
the back, so as to lose entirely the appearance of wings 
and to conceal the delicate membranous hind pair. 
Mouth mandibulate. 

This order includes the beetles. 

(6) Lepidoptera. Two pairs of large wings covered 
with scales. Mouth suctorial. 

This order includes butterflies and moths. 

(7) Diptera. One pair of membranous wings. Mouth 
suctorial, but varying greatly, sometimes penetrating as 
well as suctorial. 

(8) Thysanoptera. Two pairs of very narrow fringed 
wings. Mouth imperfectly suctorial. 

This order includes thrips. 

(9) Hemiptera. Two pairs of wings, the front pair 
either leather-like, with membranous apex, or entirely 
parchment-like or membranous. Mouth perfectly suc- 
torial, and modified into a definite beak, which is bent 
so as to be flattened out under the head and thorax. 

This order includes bed-bugs, scale-insects, lice, &c. 

Metamorphosis. Conspicuous changes after birth, or 
metamorphosis, is one of the most striking phenomena 
of insect life. 

The more highly specialised insects, such as Lepi- 
doptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, and most 
Neuroptera, undergo profound changes of form known as 
indirect or complete metamorphosis. For example, the 
egg of a mosquito or house-fly produces a larva. The 
larva feeds and grows, casting its skin from time to time, 
but not changing markedly in form till it becomes a 
pupa. From this pupa, in which internal development 
only takes place and no food is taken, the imago or adult 
sexual form emerges. Thus these insects, at different 
stages in their life-history, assume very dissimilar forms. 

In other less highly specialised insects, such as 
Orthoptera and Hemiptera, the imago or adult resembles 



152 INSECTA 

in external form the young at birth, except that the latter 
is devoid of wings and mature sexual organs. This is 
known as direct or incomplete metamorphosis. As there 
is no distinction between larva and pupa, it is usual 
to employ the term "nymph" to describe the stage 
between egg and imago in such insects. 

In cases of complete metamorphosis, it is usually 
possible to determine the order to which a larva belongs, 
though the actual form of the larvae and adults is so 
dissimilar. Most dipterous larvae have no legs ; they 
may be aquatic, as in the case of mosquitoes, or head- 
less maggots, as in those of the Muscidae. Coleopterous 
larvae have three pairs of legs, whether they are like 
maggots, worms, or wingless insects. Lepidopterous 
larvae have not only three pairs of legs, but also supple- 
mentary legs or pseudopoda on the abdominal segments ; 
these differ in appearance of the true legs and are not 
jointed. 



153 



CHAPTER X. 

DlPTERA. 

MANY members of the order Diptera are known to be 
concerned in the causation of diseases of man and of 
animals. 

Diptera may be harmful to man and animals in a 
variety of ways, by biting, by living as parasites especially 
in the larval stage, either internally or externally, and 
by carrying disease germs either as direct agents or as 
intermediate hosts for parasites. 

(1) Certain species are noted for their virulent bite ; 
such insects apparently secrete a poisonous or irritating 
saliva. Whether the virulence of flies' saliva varies at 
different times is not known ; the dissimilar effects pro- 
duced by particular species upon man at different periods 
and upon different individuals may be due to varying 
susceptibility. There is no doubt, however, that at 
certain times biting insects are more venomous than at 
others. 

Diptera feed both by night and by day ; as a rule each 
species, often each family, has its particular feeding time. 
The gadflies (Tabanidce), for instance, only feed during 
the day ; Culicina usually feed at night, but some species 
are day-feeders, and some may feed either by day or by 
night; Anophelina chiefly but not exclusively by night. 
Fleas, or Pulicidce, are almost exclusively nocturnal. 

(2) Internal Parasitism is fairly common in this order 
of insects, and man may be the host. Human dipterous 
parasites are nearly always found as such in their larval 
state. There are some notable exceptions in which the 



154 DIPTERA 

adult is the parasite, as the Jigger Flea (Sarcopsylla 
penetrans). The larvae of diptera parasitic in man and 
in animals produce what is technically called Myiasis. 
These parasitic larvae may be situated internally (internal 
myiasis) or externally, or under the skin (cutaneous 
myiasis). Grubs such as the horse-bots, or larvae of Gas- 
trophilus equi, may live and develop in the stomach and 
intestines of the horse, the horse forming a definite host. 
Grubs may exist in the intestines of man, as the Antho- 
myia larvae, by chance occurrence and not normally. 
There are no known dipterous larvae which live and 
develop only in man's intestines. Cases of internal 
myiasis in animals are common, in man rare. 

Cutaneous myiasis is much more common in man. 
The eggs of various diptera are deposited on sores and 
wounds, and the grubs feed in such places (Lucilia and 
Calliphora), or the larvae may live under the skin (Der- 
matobia), or even penetrate the organs of sight. External 
myiasis refers not only to the skin but includes cases of 
insect invasion of the external openings of the body, 
such as in the nose, orbits, ears, vagina, rectum, &c. 
(Screw-worm, Compsomyia macellaria}. 

Cases of internal myiasis require the most careful in- 
vestigation, as diptera may deposit not only eggs but 
living young on faeces directly they are voided, and these 
maggots may be thought to have been passed per amim. 
There are, however, well-authenticated cases of internal 
myiasis, even in England. 

(3) Diptera often feed indiscriminately upon man and 
animals. In this way a biting fly may carry germs of 
some disease from animal to man, such, for instance, as 
anthrax, or from man himself to a fellow-creature. 
Another source of infection of disease in man in which 
diptera play a prominent part is not due to biting diptera 
alone, but to germs being carried from faecal matter in 
latrines, &c., by all kinds of carrion and foul-feeding 
flies, to man's food and drink (typhoid fever, &c.). 

An important idle is played by diptera as definitive 



DIPTERA 



155 



hosts of human parasites, such as the malaria parasites, 
and as intermediate hosts for the Filaricc. 

Order DIPTERA. Flies with the anterior pair of wings 
membranous, except in the cases of fleas and certain 






FIG. 56. Antennae. I, Culicid ; 2, Simulid ; 3, Asilidse ; 4, Hsematopota ; 
5, Tabanid ; 6, Muscid. 

other parasitic forms, as the sheep " tick," which are 
wingless. The posterior pair of wings is transformed 
into a pair of club-shaped processes, the halteres or 
balancers. The head, thorax and abdomen are distinct. 
The head is very variable in shape. There are usually 



156 ANTENNAE 

two large compound eyes, and ocelli may be present. 
The antennae are very variable and present important 
characters which are of importance in classification. 
Certain families have antennae which consist of a number 
of segments approximately similar to one another and 
arranged in a linear manner (fig. 56, i and 2). The number 
of the segments in this division varies in the different 
families, from eight to sixteen. Diptera having this form 
of antennae are called Nemocera or Nematocera. The 
majority of insects popularly known as " flies" have 
antennae of another form, namely, three segments, the 
third of which is of different form according to genus or 
species, and bears on its front a fine projecting bristle 
frequently feathered, the arista (fig. 56, 6). Between the 
two forms of antennae described there exists a variety 
of intermediate forms. In these latter there are one to 
three segments, and a terminal appendage, which is fre- 
quently annulated (fig. 56, 5, Tabanidce), or may be hairlike 
(fig. 56, 3, Asilidce). Flies with these forms of antennae are 
called Brachycerons. Exceptional forms of antennae are 
found in the parasitic flies of the series Pupipara. 

The mouth is suctorial, and in some the parts are 
adapted for piercing. The normal mouth-parts are : 

(1) The labrum or upper lip. 

(2) The mandibles. 

(3) The maxillae. 

(4) The labium or lower lip. 

(5) The hypopharynx. 

Jointed appendages, the maxillary palpi, are also present ; 
the labial palps are represented by thelabellae. The form, 
and sometimes the function of each part varies in each 
group. The labium in many species is more or less 
fleshy and acts as a sheathing organ ; the labrum and 
hypopharynx are often much elongated, and together 
may form a more or less perfect tube. 

The space between the eyes is called the vertex, that 
part in front of the eyes the frons, the part behind the 
occiput ; the sides the gence, or cheeks ; and the mouth 
parts arise from a projection in front, the clypeus. 



MOUTH PARTS 157 

Many diptera have a peculiar structure in the form of 
a vesicle on the head called a " ptilinum." This is a 
bladder-like expansion in front of the head, which appears 
as the fly emerges from the pupa. It serves to rupture 
the hard shell in which the fly is enclosed. This ptilinum 
becomes completely inverted in the mature fly, being 
represented externally by a space, the " lunula," under 
an arched suture, extending over the point of insertion 
of the antennae. 




FIG. 57. Mouth of an Empis. a, Lower lip or labium ; t>, labella ; c, stylets 
or maxillae ; d, hypopharynx ; f, upper lip or labrum ; g t maxillary palp. 
(After Meinert.) 



The head is joined to the thorax by a narrow neck ; 
the back of the head is called the nape. The thorax may 
have all three segments distinct, or the pro- and meso- 
thorax may fuse ; the former is usually small, the latter 
large ; the metathorax, more commonly known as the 
metanotum, is small. The prothorax is most pronounced 
in the Nematocera and forms either two prothoracic lobes 
or a narrow collar ; a portion of the mesothorax is cut 
off behind by a depressed line, forming the scutellum ; 
a transverse suture may sometimes be seen on the meso- 
thorax running across from the base of the wings, and 
there is also a prominent groove above the root of the 
wings, along which there are often characteristic bristles. 

The pleura or sides are built up of several pieces, and 
lie below the meso- and metanotum. 

The wings have a variable number of veins, which are 



158 WINGS 

both longitudinal and transverse. The figure given here 
is of a Daddy-long-legs (Tipula). 

In the centre will be seen a space surrounded by veins 
the discal cell (fig. 58, 9). On the fourth longitudinal 
vein that bounds this cell in front will be seen a short 
connecting vein the anterior cross-vein ; this always 
connects the fourth longitudinal vein behind with the 
third in front, and the cell behind is always the discal 
cell (9) ; between the second and third longitudinal veins 
are the marginal cells. The other cells are shown in the 
figure. 




FIG. 58. Wing of Tipula. a, Costal vein ; b y mediastinal vein ; c, first 
longitudinal vein ; d, second longitudinal vein ; e, third longitudinal vein ; 
/, fourth longitudinal vein ; g, fifth longitudinal vein ; k, sixth longitudinal 
vein ; /', seventh longitudinal vein. I and 2, Mediastinal cells ; 3 and 4, 
sub-marginal cells ; 5, anterior basal ; 6, posterior basal ; 7, anal ; 8, posterior 
marginal ; 9, discal cell. (After Loew.) 



The longitudinal veins are known as follows : 

The costal (a) ; 

Auxiliary, mediastinal, or subcostal (6) ; 

First longitudinal vein (c) ; 

Second longitudinal vein or radial (d) ; 

Third longitudinal vein or cubital (c) ; 

Fourth longitudinal vein or discoidal (/) ; 

Fifth longitudinal vein or postical (g) ; 

Sixth longitudinal vein or anal (h) ; 

Seventh longitudinal vein or axillar rib (/). 
On the hind margin of the wing near the base there 
is often a more or less free lobe, the " alula/' and still 
nearer the base or placed on the sides of the body two 



HALTERES 



159 



other lobes, the one nearer the alula called the " anti- 
squama," the other the " squama." 

The halteres or balancers may be hidden by the 
squamae, as in certain Muscidce. In such cases the fly 
is said to be calyptrate. 




FIG. 59. Base of wing, calyptrate diptera. c, Haltere hidden by 
(a) squama. 




FIG. 60. Puparium of a "Screw-worm" (enlarged). 

The legs are attached to pro- meso- and meta-thorax ; 
they usually terminate in ungues or hooks, and pulvilli at 
the base of the ungues, in the form of two pad-like fleshy 



l6o CLASSIFICATION 

cushions, but the latter may be absent. In certain flies 
we find between them the empodium, a median appendage 
in the form of a pad, bristle, or spine. 

The abdomen is composed of nine segments, but they 
are not as a rule all shown. The male genitalia or hypo- 
pygium is of importance for differentiation of genera 
and species. 

All parts of the body may bear bristles (chcctce) which 
are important in classification (chcctotaxy). 

The larvae of all diptera have neither true nor false 
legs, and may or may not have a distinct head. 

The pupae may be either naked or enclosed in the 
hardened larval skin or puparium. 

The production of living young occurs in some groups. 
In the forest-flies and sheep-ticks, or " keds," the young 
may be born as fully matured larvae in a puparium case. 

CLASSIFICATION OF DIPTERA. 

A satisfactory classification of Diptera is not yet agreed 
upon by entomologists. At one time it was suggested 
that the order should be divided into two great groups, 
Nemocera and Brachycera, according to the structure 
of the antennae, as described above. Later Brauer pro- 
posed a classification based mainly on development as 
shown by larval and pupal characters, into two sub- 
orders, Orthorrhapha (straight-seamed) and Cyclorrhapha 
(circular-seamed). The characters of these groups were 
defined as follows : 

Sub-order i. ORTHORRHAPHA. Larva with a distinct 
head; pupa either free or encased in the larval skin 
(puparium) ; the pupal skin always bursts, for the exit of 
the pupa or imago, in a T-shaped opening on the back 
of the anterior end, rarely in a transverse slit between 
the eighth and ninth segments. Imago without the 
frontal lunula and ptilinum. 

Sub-order 2. CYCLORRHAPHA. Larva without any 
distinct head ; pupa always in a puparium (fig. 60) ; 



CLASSIFICATION OF DIPTERA l6l 

and (fig. 79, A) ; imago always escapes via a more or less 
circular opening at the anterior end (fig. 79, c). Frontal 
lunula always present ; ptilinum usually so. 

It is proposed to adopt here a classification in which 
the Diptera are divided into six groups, as follows : 

(1) Orthorrhapha ncmocera. Antennae with more than 
six segments, not terminated by an arista ; the segments of 
the flagellum, i.c. t the part beyond the two basal segments, 
more or less alike. Palpi slender, four- or five-jointed. 

In this group are included the families Cnlicidcc 
(mosquitoes), Chironomidas (midges), Psychodidcv (owl- 
midges), Simulidce (sand-flies), &c. 

(2) Orthorrhapha bmchycera. Antennae variable, but 
never resembling those of the Nemocera, as the joints 
differ markedly from each other, nor like those of 
Cyclorrhapha. Arista, if present, usually terminal ; if 
not present flagellum terminates as an appendage con- 
sisting of a number of indistinctly separated segments. 
Palpi only one- or two-jointed. 

In this group are included the families Tabanidcv (gad- 
flies), Asilidcv (robber-flies), &c. 

(3) Cyclorrhapha aschiza. Antennae composed of not 
more than three joints and an arista ; the latter not usually 
terminal, the front of the head without any definite 
arched suture over the antennae, but frequently with a 
minute area of different colour or texture there. Syrphidce, 
or hover-flies, Conopida, Pipiincnlidce, Phoridcc and 
Platypezidce. 

(4) Cyclorrhapha schizophora. The antennae consists 
of three joints and an arista, which is usually dorsal. 

In certain members of this group the halteres are not 
covered by the squamae, hence they are said to be 
acalyptratc. A group of flies, the Muscidce acalyptrata' 
belong to this class. The calyptrates in this group 
include the families Anthomyiidcc, Tachinidcc, Sarcopha- 
gi da-, MnscidcUj Oestridcc, &c. 

(5) Pupipara. Many of the flies belonging to this 
group are wingless or have wings greatly reduced in size. 

ii 



162 ORTHORRHAPHA NEMOCERA 

The young are produced alive, full-grown, but having 
still to undergo a metamorphosis. In this group is 
included the family Hippoboscidcv. 

(6) Aphaniptera. Fleas are included here, as by many 
they are considered a sub-order of Diptera. 

ORTHORRHAPHA NEMOCERA. 

Family CECIDOMYID^: (Gall Midges). Small, slender 
flies with long antennae, with bead-like segments ; pro- 
boscis short, elongated in one genus only. Abdomen 
composed of eight segments. Wings usually hairy ; no 
alula; never more than five longitudinal veins, usually 
only three, the first, third and fifth ; fourth and sixth 
may be present. Costal vein encloses entire wing ; fifth 




FlG. 61. Wing of a Cecidomyia. 

vein forked ; only one basal cell. Larvae vegetable 
feeders ; most produce galls. A few live as parasites in 
society of plant lice. Larvae with fourteen segments and 
possess an "anchor process" under the head end of body. 
The proboscis is elongated in the genus Clinorrhyncha 
(Loew), and directed downwards. They are often injuri- 
ous to crops, but only exceptionally cause annoyance to 
man by biting. 

Family CULICIM: (Mosquitoes). Proboscis elongated 
for piercing. Eyes reniform ; ocelli wanting. Antennae 
usually plumose in the male (except Sabethes, Wyconiyia, 
&c.). Thorax with large mesothorax, narrow scutellum, 
rounded metanotum. Abdomen composed of eight seg- 
ments. Wings (figs. 62 and 63) with six longitudinal 



XEMOCEKA 



i6 3 



veins, exclusive of the sub-costal, and two fork-cells ; 
veins clothed with scales ; costal vein continued round 
the border of the wing, fringed with scales. Head, 
thorax and abdomen usually but not always scaly. Palpi 
short or long in the female and male. The females are 
bloodsuckers in many species. The larvae and pupae 
are aquatic. This family is dealt with in more detail 
in a subsequent chapter. 




FIG. 62. Wing of Anopheles maculipennis. 




FIG. 63. Wing of a Culex. 



Family BLEPHAROCERIM:. These little flies have broad 
wings and long legs. The proboscis is elongated, and 
the females in some species (Curupira} are blood-suckers. 
The thorax has a distinct transverse suture. The hind 
legs are longer than the front ones and there are no 
pulvilli. The broad wings are quite bare, there is no 
discal cell, they are iridescent, and have a secondary set 
of fine network of veins. They perform aerial dances 
like midges, especially near the spray of waterfalls. The 
larvae live in rapidly running water fixed to stones by 
suckers. Some forms of larvae (Curupira) are composed 
of only six or seven segments, with widely projecting 
side lobes and small tracheal gills near the suckers. 
The pupae are flattened, inactive, and enclosed in a semi- 
oval shell, the anterior end having horny erect breathing 
tubes and suckers on the ventral surface. 



164 



CHIRONOMID^E 



Family CHIRONOMIM: (Midges). This family includes 
the majority of midges which are frequently taken for 
Cnlicidcc or mosquitoes. They are all small, delicate, 
gnat-like flies, with small head, partly concealed by the 
cowl- like thorax. The antennae in the female are thread- 
like and composed of from six to fifteen segments ; in the 
male they are densely plumose. Ocelli wanting or rudi- 




F. T c;. 64. Wing of Chironomus. 




FIG. 65. A Ceratopogon. 



mentary. Proboscis short. The oval thorax has no 
transverse suture, is bare, and projects more or less over 
the head. The long, narrow abdomen is composed of 
segments and is often semi-transparent and pilose. The 
legs are slender and rather long and not spinose, 
but very hairy in some tropical species. The wings 
(fig. 64) are narrow, long, and bare or hairy, never scaly ; 



CHIRONOMIM: 165 

the anterior veins darker than the rest; the sub-costal 
vein complete but small; second longitudinal vein small 
or wanting ; third longitudinal vein sometimes forked 
close to its origin, the upper branch often rectangular; 
fifth long vein forked, sometimes the fourth ; the costal 
vein always ends near the tip of the wing. 

Great numbers of this family occur in all parts of the 
world. The members of one European genus (Cerato- 
pogon} (fig. 65) bite severely. They often occur in swarms, 
dancing in the air. When at rest they wave their forelegs 
in the air. Ceratopogon occur in most countries. They 
are known as "punkies" or " no-see-um," and cause 
great annoyance by their bites. Many tropical genera 
bite severely, and on account of this and their small size 
are frequently misnamed " sand-flies." 




FIG. 66. Wing of Ceralopogon. (After Leonard!.) 

The larvae of Chironomidce are mainly aquatic and 
worm-like, often red in colour, and the pupae are active, 
and the respiratory tubes frequently plumose ; they also 
live in damp earth and in decaying vegetation, and in 
the Tropics in stumps of bamboos, pitcher plants and 
other open accumulations of water in plants. Those of 
Ceratopogon and allied genera live in the sap of trees, under 
fallen leaves, and in decaying vegetation, or are aquatic, 
and are long, slender, delicate, whitish creatures. In the 
genus Ceratopogon the dorsum of the thorax is not pro- 
duced over the head ; the palpi are four-jointed ; the 
wings are usually spotted (figs. 65 and 66). 

Family PsYCHODiM; (Owl-midges). Small, densely 
hairy, thick-set insects. Proboscis usually short, but in 
one European genus (Phlebotomns) it is long and horny ; 



i66 



PSYCHODIM; 



palpi hairy and composed of four segments. The short 
abdomen is composed of six to eight segments, hairy. 
The legs are often short and densely hairy and the claws 
small. The wings are broad and when at rest lie roof- 
shaped over the body ; they are densely covered with long 
hairs and are fringed with hairs ; neuration mostly com- 
posed of longitudinal veins ; the first longitudinal vein 
near the costa, the second arises near the origin of the first 
and is usually twice forked, third vein simple, fourth forked, 
fifth, sixth and seventh usually distinct, the latter sometimes 
wanting. These small flies can at once be told by their 
moth-like appearance. They run well, but their flight 




FIG. 67. Phlebotoiuus, sp. (From Giles' " Gnats or Mosquitoes.") 



is weak. Owl-midges are found frequently on windows 
and in out-buildings. The genus Phlebotowus and some 
tropical genera bite severely. The larvae live in stagnant 
water and decaying vegetation. They are cylindrical and 
have a short terminal breathing tube. The inactive pupae 
have two long tubular stigmata. 

Family SiMULiD^E (Sand-flies). Usually called sand- 
flies, black flies, brulots, buffalo and turkey gnats, and 
sometimes mosquitoes. All small, with oval thorax 
devoid of any suture. Cylindrical abdomen composed 
of seven or eight segments. The eyes are holoptic, i.e., 
the two eyes meet in the middle line in the male, and there 



SIMULIM: 167 

are no ocelli. The male is darker and more velvety than 
the female. The short antennae are composed of ten or 
eleven segments, the two basal ones distinct, the rest 
closely united. Palpi composed of four segments, the 
basal joint short, the next two equal, the last longer and 
narrowed. The legs short, thick ; femora broad and flat. 
Wings (fig. 68) large and broad, the anterior veins 
thickened, remainder delicate ; the sub-costal terminates 
in the costa about half the length of the wing ; first and 
third longitudinal veins lie close together ; fourth vein 
forked nearly opposite the anterior cross-vein ; forks 
terminate near the tip of the wing. Proboscis short with 
strong horny lamellae, consists of two resisting bristles 
for puncturing, and on its sides two maxillary four-jointed 




FIG. 68. Wing of Simulium. 

palps. These small flies bite very severely and cause 
much annoyance. They especially attack the eyes, nostrils 
and ears of both animals and man. Sand-flies occur in all 
climates. The larvae are all aquatic and some live in rapidly 
flowing water ; they attach themselves to stones, plants, 
&c., and form elongated cocoons, open above. They are 
soft skinned, with thickened ends, a cylindrical head, and 
on the first segment a prominence with bristly hooks, 
The end of the abdomen is provided with appendages, 
by which the larvae attach themselves. The pupae have 
the anterior end of the body free, and from it pass out 
a number of thread-like breathing tubes. The flies are 
accused of propagating anthrax and septic diseases. 
Their punctures give rise to severe inflammation, which 
sometimes results in depilation in animals. 



1 68 



BRACHYCERA 



ORTHORRHAPHA BRACHYCERA (Antennae short). 

Family TABANID^E (Gad-flies). This family includes a 
number of genera, the popular names being gad-, breeze- 
or horse-flies, brimps and sneggs. They are mostly large 




FIG. 69. Head of Tabanus. 

and stout ; the head (fig. 69) large ; eyes very large, 
contiguous in the male, the upper facets larger than the 
lower, usually with green and violet markings when 
alive. The antennae composed of three segments, third 
segment composed of six to eight rings ; no stylet. The 




FlG. 70. - -Wing of a Tabanus. 

proboscis prominent, often greatly elongated, fleshy, with 
pointed horny processes ; the female with six, the male 
with four stylets ; the former only suck blood. Palpi two 
jointed, the second joint large. The abdomen is broad, 
often flattened, never slender, composed of seven seg- 
ments (vide fig. 71). The legs are rather thick, mid-tibiae 
always with spurs ; tarsi with three membranous pads 
at the tip. There are never any bristles. The third 
longitudinal vein forked. Two submarginal and five 



TABANID^E 169 

posterior cells present ; anal cell closed at or near margin 
of wing. Tegulae large. 

Mostly large flies which occur during hot weather and 
have remarkable powers of flight. The bite of the female 
is often severe. The eggs are spindle-shaped and dark, 
and are laid on leaves and stems of plants, and on water 
plants. The larvae are carnivorous and feed upon snails, 
insect larvae and also roots ; elongated, composed of 
eleven segments, jointed, often with retractile fleshy 
protuberances ; the last segment has a breathing pore, 
or the last two segments may form a breathing tube. 
The pupae are free, and live in earth and water. 

The worst biting species are found in the following 
genera : Pangonia, CJirysops, Hadrus, Hcematopota, Therio- 
plectes, Atylotus and Tabanus. 

There are two sections, distinguished as follows : 

Hind tibiae with spurs at the tip ........................... Pangonince. 

Hind tibias without spurs .................................... Tabanince. 

The following characters separate the above-mentioned 
genera : 



Third joint, of antennae eight ringed, the first ring 
slightly the longer ; the fourth posterior cell 
open ; proboscis often very long .................. Pangonia. 

Third joint composed of five rings, the first of which 
is much longer than the following ; the second 
joint of antennas as long as the first ; wings with 
dark areas ; three ocelli ; brilliant eyes with 
purple lines and spots ................................. Chrysops. 

Tabanintz. 
Third joint of antennas without or with only a rudi- 

mentary basal process ; thorax and abdomen 

with iridescent tomentum ; tibiae dilated ......... Hadrus. 

Thorax and abdomen without iridescent tomentum ; 

front of as broad as long ........................... Hcematopota. 

Third joint of the antennas with well-developed 

basal process. 

First antennal joint short; body broad. 

Eyes pubescent, small ocelligerous tubercle present Therioplectes. 
Eyes pubescent, but no ocelligerous tubercle ......... Atylotus. 

Eyes bare ...................................................... Tabanus. 




FIG. 71. Tabanus bovinus. 




FIG. 72. Hamatopota pluvialis. 



CHRYSOPS 



171 



ThePangonia are found in woods, forests and pastures; 
their flight is rapid. The proboscis may be greatly elon- 
gated so that they can pierce through even thick clothes. 
An epizootic of anthrax in Pine Islands, New Caledonia, 
was traced to this genus. The genus Tabanus (fig. 49) 
is world-wide ; the short, thick, salient proboscis and 
the last joint of the antennae being annulated and notched 
in crescentic form and their large size render them easily 




FIG. 73. Head of Hxmatopota. 




FIG. 74. Wing of Harnatopota pluvialis. 

identifiable. The genus Hcematopota (fig. 72) has no 
crescentic antennal notch (fig. 73), and the wings (fig. 74) 
overlap ; the abdomen is also narrower than in Tabauus, 
and the wings have hyaline spots. 

The genus Chrysops can usually be told by their wings 
(fig- 75) being marked with dark areas and their eyes 
with purple lines and spots. They bite severely and 
usually attack round the eyes. An example of Hadrits 



172 



ASILIM: 



is the Motuca fly (H. Icpidotus) of Brazil, which causes 
deep wounds. 

Family ASILID^E (Robber-flies). Mostly large flies, 
usually more or less elongated in form, and often thickly 
hairy and with strong bristles. Head broad and short 
with a freely movable neck ; eyes separate in both sexes, 




FlG. 75. Chrysops Distinctipennis. 

with a deep notch between. Antennas composed of 
three segments, the third elongated, generally simple, 
with or without a terminal style or bristle ; style 
sometimes thickened and forming one or two apparent 
antennal joints. Proboscis firm; upper lip horny, 
used for piercing; labella not fleshy. Legs strong 
and bristly. Wings when closed lying parallel over 
the abdomen ; three long basal cells, two or three 
sub-marginal cells and five posterior cells ; third longi- 



LEPTID^E 



173 



tudinal vein forked. These flies usually feed upon 
insects. Some reach as much as two inches in length. 
The larvae live in rotten wood and in the soil, and 
feed upon other larvae. There do not seem to be any 
authentic records of these Robber-flies biting man, but 
some of the larger tropical species are said to do so ; 





FIG. 76. Left is scohpacea. 

animals are also attacked by them. There are over 150 
genera in this family. 

Family LEPTIM;. This family includes a number of 
elongated flies of moderate or large size (fig. 76). The 
veins of the wings distinct, not crowded anteriorly ; 



174 EMPIDID^E 

third longitudinal vein forked, basal cells large; five 
posterior cells usually present. Third joint of antennae 
complex or simple, with or without a terminal or dorsal 
arista or a terminal style. One genus only (Sympho- 
rouivia) bites, the rest being predaceous upon insects. 
The section Leptincc, in which the biting genus occurs, 
has short antennae with simple third joint, with a ter- 
minal or dorsal arista or a terminal style ; the proboscis 
is short, and some or all the tibiae have spines. The 
larvae live in the earth and in decaying wood, sand, 
water, and the nests of wood-boring beetles ; they are 
predaceous ; usually cylindrical, and may have fleshy 
abdominal legs ; the anal segment has a transverse cleft, 
and often two posteriorly directed processes, and two 
stigmata between them. The genus Symphoromyia has 
a single spur on the third tibiae ; the third joint of 
antennae kidney-shaped, and the arista nearly dorsal. 




FIG. 77. Wing of Empis. 

Family EMPIDID/E. This family is a large one and 
includes many genera. The flies have a piercing mouth, 
being all predaceous, feeding upon other insects. Prob- 
ably some attack man in the Tropics. They are mostly 
small to moderate-sized species, with small head, provided 
with either a short or long proboscis. The proboscis 
(fig. 57) consists of two stylets (c), a hypopharynx (d) t and 
an upper (/) and lower lip (a). The antennae three jointed, 
the first two joints often small, third joint very variable, 
with or without a terminal arista or style. Abdomen of 
from five to seven segments ; male genitalia very promi- 
nent. The legs have peculiar structures, the femora 



CYCLORRHAPHA 175 

thickened and spiny ; metatarsi flattened. Neuration 
(fig. 77) of wing variable; there are three or four posterior 
cells ; the anal cell is closed remote from the border, 
sometimes wanting, at other times it is closed near the 
border (Hilarimorpha) ; then the discal cell is wanting. 
Tegulae small. The larvae are cylindrical, with small 
ventral swellings on the mesothoracic segments ; they 
live in earth and amongst decaying vegetable matter. The 
pupae have two points at the anterior end. 

CYCLORRHAPHA ASCHIZA. 

This section does not contain any members that bite 
or annoy man. 

The chief family, the Syrphidcc, or Hover-flies, are 
noted for the good some of their larvae do in destroying 
Aphides. 

CYCLORRHAPHA SCHIZOPHORA. 

I. MUSCID.E ACALYPTRAT^E. Mostly small flies with 
the antennae composed of three segments bearing a non- 
terminal bristle ; halteres never covered by a squama 
or basal scale ; nervuration of wings simple, few cells. 

This group contains a large number of sub-families. 
None annoy man to any noticeable extent. The follow- 
ing families are of economic importance, agriculturally 
and otherwise : Chloropidce, Trypetidce, Psilidcc (as vegetable 
feeders), Scatophagidce (dung-flies). 

II. MUSCID.E CALYPTR.E. Halteres covered with a 
squama. 

Family OESTRID/E (Warble-flies) (fig. 78). Flies of 
large size, thick-set, and often very hairy. Mouth small, 
parts rudimentary ; eyes rather small, bare. Head large ; 
the antennae small, composed of three segments, more 
or less hidden ; arista simple or plumose. Thorax broad, 
with distinct transverse suture. Abdomen short and 
thick. Legs of moderate length, the hind pair often longer 
than the rest. Wings with or without markings ; anal 




FIG. 78. Dermatobia uoxialis. 




79. Dermatobia noxialit. A and B, Larvae ("bots"); C, puparium. 
(After Brauer.) 



SARCOPHAGID^: 177 

cell, small cliscal cell, may be absent. The larvae or bots 
(fig. 79, A and B) are provided with circles of spines, two 
hooked mandibles and anal breathing pores ; parasitic. 
They live in three ways (i) under the skin, (2) in nasal 
and pharyngeal cavities, and (3) in the alimentary canal. 
Man as well as animals may be attacked (Dennatobia). 
The larvae of Dennatobia (fig. 79) live under the skin 
of man, apes, cattle, dogs, &c. In the adult Dermatobia 
the arista is plumose on the upper side and the tarsi 
slender; the proboscis is bent at the base and is con- 
cealed in the buccal cavity ; squamae large ; first posterior 
cell closed ; body hairy. Larvae club-shaped, slender 
posteriorly, and surrounded with rows of prickles on 
the borders of the segments of the apical half. The 
chrysalis stage is formed in a hard puparium case (C). 
The common species, D. noxialis (Goudot), occurs from 
Mexico to Brazil, and is known as the " macaw worm," 
" ura," " torcel," and " moyoquil worm." 

Family SARCOPHAGiDyE (Flesh-flies). Usually thick- 
set and of variable size. Abdomen composed of four 
visible segments, with bristles which are confined to the 
anal end, but sometimes elsewhere. Arista plumose to 
the middle, apex always bare. Some are metallic (Cyno- 
myia). Larvae feed 'on decaying animal and vegetable 
matter, and may live as parasites in the flesh of animals 
and in the orifices of man, also in wounds and ulcers. 
Those of Sarcophaga often occur in wounds in man, and 
are sometimes produced alive. The larvas are rounded, 
and thin anteriorly ; abdominal segments distinct, each 
with a circle of spines; mouth with two-curved mandi- 
bles ; posterior stigmata placed in a deep cavity, and 
there are two pointed anal swellings. The pupa lies in 
a brown oval puparium. 

The genus Sarcophaga (Meigen) has the first posterior 
cell open ; the tibiae with a few bristles ; the mid and 
posterior cross-veins nearly in the same line. 

Sarcophaga cartiaria, the common British flesh-fly, may 
be taken as an example. 
12 



178 MUSCIM: 

Cynomyia (Desvoidy) has a metallic coloured abdomen 
and the tibiae with short hairs. 

Cynomyia mortnorum is a bright blue fly about the size 
of a blow-fly, and, like it, lays its eggs in decaying animal 
matter, and may possibly do so on wounds. 

Sarcophila (Rondani), like others in the Sarcophagida>, 
are viviparous. The females deposit their larvae in 
wounds in animals and man. 

The larvae of the genus Ochromyia are also parasitic 
under the skin of animals and man Gayer or Senegal 
fly (0. anthropophaga) . 

Family MusciD^: (House-flies, Tsetse-flies, &c.). A 
large family, easily told from the former by the arista 
being plumose at the tip (now and then it is bare) ; there 
are no bristles on the abdomen except at the tip, and 
the first posterior cell is very narrow. The eyes of the 
$ contiguous, bare or hairy in both sexes. Abdomen 
composed of four visible segments. This family con- 
tains the house-fly (Musca), blue- and green bottle-flies 
(Lncilia and Calliphora), stable or "stinging flies" (Sto- 
moxys), horse-flies (Hccmatobia), and tsetse-flies (Glossimi). 
The larvae are variable ; some live in decaying vegetation, 
in decaying animal matter and faeces ; others, as the 
screw-worm (Chrysomyia), as parasites in animals and 
man : so also may Calliphora and Lncilia. The Stonuuy- 
iiuv, which include the stable-fly, tsetse-fly and the horn- 
fly, have elongated, piercing probosces, and are blood- 
suckers. 

The following characters will separate the more im- 
portant genera : 

Proboscis long, used for piercing ; palpi shorter than 

proboscis Stomoxys. 

Palpi nearly as long as proboscis Hccmatobia. 

Proboscis very long, straight Glossina. 

Proboscis short, not adapted for piercing ; arista 
plumose' on both sides ; curvature of fourth vein 
angular ; mid tibiae without bristles on inner side ; 
abdomen non-metallic ; blackish species with 
more or less yellowish markings Musca. 



Mid tibiae with bristles on the inner side ; abdomen, 

c., with metallic colours. 

Thorax blackish Calliphora. 

Thorax black with whitish stripes, more or less 

metallic Chrysomyia. 

Thorax unicolorous, metallic Lucilia. 




FIG. 80. Stomoxys. 

GENUS STOMOXYS. 

In the genus Stomoxys the solid, elongate proboscis, 
jointed at an angle near its base, is the obvious char- 
acteristic. The type species of the genus is Stomoxys 
calcitrant (fig. 80) which is very like the common house- 
fly in general appearance. 

Mouth-parts in Stomoxys. The proboscis beyond the 
angle projects horizontally. The palpi are very slender 
and scarcely one-third the length of the proboscis ; they 
spring from above the angle and are not in contact with 
the proboscis. 



i8o 



STOMOXYS 



The proboscis consists of three parts labium, labrum 
and hypopharynx. 

The labium is the only part seen in the ordinary resting 
position. It is a solid-looking chitinous structure, ovoid 
in cross-section, with a narrow, shallow groove on its 




FIG. 81. Wing of Stomoxys calcitrant. 







FIG. 82. Cross-section of proboscis of Stomoxys (from Giles), h, Hypo- 
pharynx ; /, labium ; Irm, labrum ; m, muscle ; t, trachea;. 



anterior or upper surface, within which lie the labrum 
and hypopharynx. The lateral walls of the labrum are 
incurved below to form a tube, with a slit along the lower 
side. This slit is closed by the apposition of the hypo- 
pharynx, a delicate rod within which lies the excretory 
tube of the salivary ducts. 



DISSECTION OF STOMOXYS 



181 



Dissection. To expose the structures in the thorax in 
such flies snip off with sharp scissors the legs with a little 
of the ventral wall of the thorax. There will then be seen 
a number of vertical bundles of muscle fibre (the coxal 
muscles). Separate these muscle bundles in the middle 
line and expose the great thoracic ganglion, a sausage- 
shaped mass of considerable size situated opposite the 
first pair of legs. Clean this away, and just under its 
anterior end will be seen a nodule about the size of a 
small pin's head, this nodule is the proventriculus. Ex- 
tending backwards from it is a glistening tube, the mid- 
gut, and lying upon it three delicate tubes, the crop duct 
centrally placed, and at the sides the commencement of 
the salivary glands. 

The abdominal viscera can be exposed by snipping 
through the chitinous covering of the dorsum in a longi- 
tudinal direction and floating the contained structures 
in normal saline solution. 

Internal Anatomy. The buccal cavity, which is a 
narrow tube, is contained in the base of the proboscis. 
From it the pharynx runs almost vertically upwards in 
the head, then bends sharply backwards to become the 
oesophagus, the latter being continued backwards as the 
mid-gut. At the junction of the oesophagus and mid- 
gut is situated the proventriculus, into which opens also 
the duct of the crop, a large hollow sac situated in the 
anterior part of the abdomen between the mid-gut and 
the salivary glands. The mid-gut runs backwards into 
the abdomen as a narrow tube until it reaches nearly to 
the posterior border of the crop, where it becomes dilated. 
This dilated portion has three simple coils, which lie 
superposed in the middle of the abdomen. The tube 
then gradually narrows and into this region the four 
Malpighian tubes open. The alimentary canal is con- 
tinued as a uniformly narrow tube to the rectum. The 
narrow lower intestine has variable bends but is not 
coiled. The rectum is a dilated cone-shaped cavity with 
its apex towards the anus ; within it are four rectal papillae. 



182 



DISSECTION OF STOMOXYS 



Below the dilatation the rectum is continued as a short 
narrow tube to the anus. The appendages of the alimen- 
tary canal are the Malpighian tubes, the crop and the 
salivary glands. 

The salivary glands lie in the abdomen ventral to the 
crop, they are continued forward into the thorax and 
become the salivary ducts at the anterior end of the 
thorax. These ducts join in the head, forming the 
common salivary duct which passes into the hypopharynx. 




FIG. 83. Dissections of the abdomen of Stomoxys, after Lieut. Tulloch, 
seen from above, with the alimentary canal unravelled. CD, Common 
seminal duct; D, seminal duct; MT, Malphigian tubes; o, junction of distal 
intestine and metenteron ; R, rectum ; RP, rectal papillae ; so, salivary 
glands ; TT, dilated ends of left Malphigian tubes ; vs, vesicular seminalis. 

In the genus Hamaiobia the proboscis is similar to 
that in Stomoxys, but the palpi at once separate it. Hivina- 
tobia scrrata, the "horn-fly" of North America, causes 
much annoyance to cattle and bites man, but in Great 
Britain it seems harmless. 

GENUS GLOSSINA. 

In the genus Glossina the proboscis is long and straight. 
Palpi are the same length as the proboscis and form a 



GLOSSIXA 183 

sheath for it. Arista plumose to the tip, the hairs being 
compound. The wings when at rest are crossed over 
one another " scissors like," and project well beyond the 
abdomen. The wing venation is characteristic, especially 
in the course of the fourth longitudinal vein, which makes 
two bends, one before it meets the anterior transverse 
vein and another before it reaches the costal margin. 

The females of this genus produce their larvae full 
grown, the larvae changing to pupae at once. The larvae 
are deposited in the neighbourhood of decaying vegeta- 
tion, particularly about the roots of certain trees, such 
as the banana tree and others of its class. 

Glossina are found in belts usually in the vicinity of 
streams- or rivers on the edge of forest land. In such 
situations they may be present in large numbers for a 
few hours, at other times none or very few can be found. 

Mouth-parts' in Glossina. The maxillary palpi project 
horizontally and act as ensheathing organs for the 
proboscis. 

The proboscis is expanded at the base, the remainder 
being proportionately very slender ; it reaches almost to 
the end of the palpi and is slightly curved, with the con- 
vexity beneath. It consists of three parts labium or 
lower lip, labrnin or upper lip, and the hypopharynx. 

The labium consists of a large basal bulb and a 
terminal long, slender, chitinous rod. It is deeply 
grooved on its upper surface and bent upwards and 
inwards. 

The labnun is a narrow chitinous rod, the prolonga- 
tion of the exterior wall of the pharynx. Its edges are 
turned downwards and inwards, so that it forms about 
two-thirds of a tube. It terminates in a sharp point. 

The hypopharynx is a solid rod, semilunar in cross- 
section, with a rib running down its ventral surface, within 
which is the salivary canal. 

As will be seen from the figure, the labium and labrum 
together constitute a tube up which the blood passes to 
the pharynx. The convex dorsal surface of the hypo- 
pharynx fits closely to the sides of the labrum. 



i8 4 



6LOSSINA 



The internal anatomy in Glossina is in general very 
similar to that in Stomoxys. The mid-gut is, however, 
longer and larger. 




FIG. 84. Transverse section of the proboscis of Glossina palpalis at almost 

mid-length. 




FIG. 85. Glossina morsitans. 



Synoptic Table of Species. 

I. Hind tarsi dark, or at least all the segments more or 
less dark (in the $ of G. tacJiinoides the basal half 
of the first joint and the extreme- bases of the other 
segments are usually pale). 



GLOSS1NA 185 

(1) Ground colour of abdomen ochraceous buff, 

with interrupted dark brown deep transverse 
bands and sharply defined pale hind borders 
to the segments, a very conspicuous square 
or oblong pale area in the centre of the 
second segment ; small species, not exceed- 
ing 8 mm. in length, exclusive of proboscis, 
the males much smaller tachinoides. 

(2) Abdomen very dark, or for the most part 

uniformly brown, hind borders of segments 
if lighter extremely narrow and cinereous ; 
pale area in centre of second segment 
usually triangular, with the apex directed 
backwards and continued into a cinereous 
median stripe ; larger species. 

(a) Third joint of antennas dusky brown 

to cinereous black. 

(a) Thorax, pleurae and coxae more 
or less uniform in colour or 
with stripes only palpalis. 

()8) Thorax with elongated trans- 
verse black spots ; pleura?, coxae 
and femora with conspicuous 
black spots maculata. 

(b] Third joint of antennae pale (orange- 

buff) pallicera. 

II. Hind tarsi not entirely dark ; last two joints alone 
dark, remainder pale. 

A. Smaller species; length rarely reaching II 
mm., often considerably less ; wing expanse 
not exceeding 25 mm. 

(a) Last two joints of front and middle 
tarsi with sharply defined dark brown 
or black tips. 

Generally distinctly larger ; head 
wider ; front darker and nar- 
rower in both sexes, sides 
parallel in $ ; abdominal bands 
deeper, leaving hind margins 
only narrowly pale ; hypopy- 
gium in $ smaller, darker and 
more hairy ; tip of abdomen 
more thickly clothed laterally 
with short black hair, bristles 
on sixth segment finer and less 
prominent longipalpis. 



1 86 LUCILIA 

Usually smaller ; head narrower ; 
front paler and wider ; eyes in 
^ as well as in $ distinctly 
converging towards vertex ; 
abdominal bands < less deep ; 
pale hind margins of segments 
therefore deeper ; hypopygium 
in the $ larger, paler, some- 
what more oval in outline, and 
clothed with fewer fine hairs ; 
tip of $ abdomen less hairy 
laterally ; bristles on the sixth 
segments in $ stouter and 

more conspicuous morsitans. 

(b] Last two joints of front and middle 
tarsi without sharply defined black or 
brown tips ; front and middle tarsi 
entirely yellow, or last two joints of 
former faintly tipped with pale brown pallidipes. 
li. Large species ; length at least 11 mm., wing 
expanse at least 25 mm. 

Dorsum of thorax with four sharply de- 
fined small dark brown or oval spots 
arranged in a parallelogram, two in 
front of and two behind transverse 
suture ; bulb at base of proboscis 

brown at the tip longipennis. 

Dorsum of thorax without such spots, 
though with more or less distinct 
longitudinal stripes ; bulb at base of 
proboscis not brown at the tip fusca. 

Genus Lucilia (fig. 86), the so-called green bottle-flies, 
have a soft proboscis (fig. 87). They -are all of metallic 
colour and the abdomen is short and round ; the third seg- 
ments of the antennae are quadruple the size of the second. 
The ova and larvae are often deposited on wounds and 
ulcers in animals and man (L. scricata). This species 
causes the well-known " maggot " in sheep. 

Genus Chrysomyia. This genus also contains metallic- 
coloured flies which differ from Lucilia in that the thorax 
is striped. The screw-worm fly (C. macellaria, fig. 88) 
is found in North and South America and the West 



AUCHMEROMY1A 



I8 7 



Indies, but does not attack man farther north than 
Kansas. 

Genus Auchmeromyia. The blood-sucking larva of 
one species, A. hiteola, has been described under the 
name of "The Congo Floor Maggot." The perfect in- 




FlG. 86.Lucz7ia casar. 




FIG. 87. HEAD OF Lucilia ccesar. 

sect is about n mm. in length, of a pale yellow colour. 
The head is broad, equal in width to the thorax, and the 
proboscis lies in a deep groove. The dorsum of the 
thorax is flattened and marked by longitudinal dark stripes. 
The abdomen consists of five segments, the second being 
the longest and broadest. This segment is marked by a 




FlG. 88. Chrysomyia macellatia. 




FlG. 89. Aiichmeromyia Lnfeola. 



ANTHOMYID^E 189 

dark brown or black line down the centre and a similar 
line along its posterior edge. The third and fourth seg- 
ments are dark brown to black in colour. The fifth 
segment is small and contains the genitalia. 

The larva is dirty white in colour, about 15 mm. in 
length, the body comprising eleven segments. The 
anterior segment is conical in shape and carries the 
mouth, which is armed with two black hooklets and 
paired teeth. They live under mats or in the cracks of 
the earthern floors of native huts. They feed at night. 

This fly has a wide distribution from Northern Algeria 
to Natal, and is especially common in the Congo and 
about Lake Chad. 

Family ANTHOMYIM:. These are mostly moderate- 
sized, dull-coloured flies, resembling the common house- 
fly. The. arista is plumose, pubescent or bare. Abdo- 
men composed of four or five segments ; sometimes there 
are no bristles on the body, but they are usually present. 
The first posterior cell of the wings broadly open ; tegular 
of considerable size. Male eyes usually contiguous. 
It is closely connected on one hand with the Muscida 
and on the other with the Sarcophagidce. None are 
metallic. The open first posterior cell is the chief 
character. The following genera have been connected 
with man either as parasites or by causing other annoy- 
ance, viz., Hydrotcca (Desvoidy), Homalomyia (Bouche), 
and Hylemyia (Desvoidy). 

They may be told as follows : 

Eyes of $ close together ; tegula large* ; fore 
femora of $ with processes, tubercles, 
c., below : arista always somewhat 
pubescent ; eyes bare ; black or blue- 
black, and pilose Hydrottza (Desvoidy). 

Eyes of $ close together, bare ; tegula large ; 
abdomen nearly bare, unspotted : head 
almost composed of eyes ; antennae short, 

* Larger than ante-tegula. 



190 



HOMALOMYIA 



third joint elongated ; arista bare ; mid- 
legs of $ often with peculiar structures ; 

black and grey Homalflwyia 

Arista plumose ; eyes bare ; elongated species, 

grey or black Hylcmyia (Desvoidy). 

The genus Homalomyia (fig. 90) has often occurred 
in human beings in the larval state in the intestines, 
being passed alive in the faeces. Most larvae in this 
family are vegetable feeders. They are normally slender 
and cylindrical, or flat and oval, with four rows of 




FIG. cp.Hotnalomyia canicularis. 



thread-like processes on the segments, and have two 
mouth hooks. The puparium may be oval or flattened. 
In Homalomyia they have curious branched processes 
(fig. 91). The genus Hydrotcca also occurs in the larval 
form in human beings. The characteristic neuration is 
shown in fig. 92. Hylcmyia larvae have also occurred in 



TACHIXIM: PUPIPARA 191 

human excreta, having been passed per anum. Some 
are dung frequenters and produce living young. 

Family TACHiNiDyE. Like Anthomyidce, but always 
bristly. Arista bare. Palpi formed of one segment. All 
veins of the wings simple ; basal cells large ; three pos- 




FlG. 91. Larva of Homalomyia. 




FIG. 92. Wing of HyJrot&a ciliata. 

terior cells ; first posterior cell closed or only just 
opened. Squamae large. Larvae parasitic in insects, 
especially in the larvae of certain Lepidoptera. 

PUPIPARA. 

Blood-sucking, parasitic on vertebrates (except Braula). 

Family HiPPOBOSClD^:. Parasites upon birds and 
mammals when mature. Proboscis may be long and 
sharp. Palpi absent ; antennae placed in pits, composed 




FIG. ^.Hippobosca equina (enlarged four times). 




FIG. 94. Mehphagus ovinus (enlarged twelve times). 



193 

of one segment, with or without terminal bristle or 
hairs. Eyes round or oval, often very small. Thorax 
flat, leathery ; scutellum broad and short. Abdomen 
leathery, inflated, no sutures visible. Legs short, strong ; 
claws large and dentate ; empodia distinct. Wings 
present or absent (vide figs. 93, 94). The larvae are born 
nearly matured in the puparium case, passing most of 
their development in the body of the parent. Of general 
louse-like form. This family contains the forest-fly 
(Hippobosca equina) (fig. 93), and the sheep ked (Melo- 
phagns ovinus) (fig. 94). The proboscis is composed of 
elongated, hard, closely applied flaps and an inner tube 
between. They live on horses, cattle, and birds, and now 
and then attack man. 

Family NYCTERIBID^E. Found exclusively on bats. 
Spider-like ; no wings. Eyes and ocelli indistinct or 
wanting. Legs long, femora and tibiae flattened. 

Two other families, Braiilidce and Streblidce, occur ; the 
former live on bees, the latter on bats. 



APHANIPTERA (Fleas). 

These are parasites of fowls, dogs, rats, and human 
beings. The wings are reduced to mere rudiments ; 
the body is flattened laterally to permit their gliding 
about among the hairs of the host; the antennae are 
short and thick, and lie in pits in the head ; the eyes 
are represented by two ocelli or may be absent. Contrary 
to what obtains in other Diptera, the three segments of 
the thorax are distinct, pro-, meso-, and meta-thorax. 
Abdomen of nine segments, and in some species capable 
of enormous distension. Legs powerful and adapted 
for jumping. The mouth-parts are piercing and suctorial. 

This sub-order is treated in some detail in a later 
chapter. 



194 



CHAPTER XL 
MOSQUITOES. 

MOSQUITOES are the hosts of many parasites, and some 
of these are injurious to man or the lower animals. As 
these diseases include malaria, yellow fever, at least one 
of the human filariae, as well as the Proteosoma of birds 
and the Filaria immitis so fatal to dogs, a good working 
knowledge of the structure, life-history and modes of 
classification of these insects is required for tropical work. 

Mosquitoes, or Culicidcc, belong to the order of dipterous 
insects, as they have the anterior pair of wings mem- 
branous, whilst the posterior pair are represented by a 
pair of club-shaped processes, the halteres or balancers. 

The insect is divided naturally into three regions : (i) 
head, (2) thorax, (3) abdomen. To the head are attached 
the sensory and biting organs, consisting of two com- 
pound eyes, two antennae, two palpi, and a complex 
suctorial and piercing organ, the proboscis. 

To the thorax are articulated a pair of wings, a pair 
of balancers, and three pairs of legs ; whilst the abdomen 
is segmented and terminates in the anus and external 
organs of generation. 

In the Culicidcc the head, thorax, abdomen and legs are 
thickly covered with scales in most of the genera, whilst 
on the wings, scales are found only at the edge and on 
the veins. The character and arrangement of the scales 
are important points in the differentiation of genera. 
The absence of scales on the wings or the presence of 
scales on other parts of the wings than those mentioned, 
or the substitution of hairs for scales, are valuable aids 



MOSQUITOES 195 

in the differentiation of other insects from the Culicida. 
The type of venation of the wings and the characters of 
the cephalic appendages are of value both for identifica- 
tion of the family Culicidcc, differentiation of genera, of 
species, and of sexes. 

Scales lose their colour and become too transparent 
for proper examination unless the specimens are mounted 
dry, so that for identification of species it is advisable 
that the mosquitoes should be mounted dry and so 
arranged that all the surfaces can be examined. It is 
best to examine or send for examination young mos- 
quitoes, as in older specimens many scales are rubbed 
off and the insects otherwise injured. 

Mosquitoes hatched out from pupa should be kept 
alive for at least twenty-four hours, as if killed when too 
young they become much distorted when they dry. They 
should be kept in a dark place, as they then are less liable 
to have the scales rubbed off. 

The mosquitoes must be killed rapidly, and a cyanide 
pot is invaluable in this connection, though chloroform 
vapour, formalin, or even tobacco smoke, may be used. 
The dead mosquito must be mounted without delay, as 
the limbs soon lose their pliability. *To mount they 
should be placed on their backs on a piece of cork 
felt. A small square or a circle of thin card should be 
taken, and on one side of it the date and place of capture 
of the mosquito should be written, with a distinguishing 
number if the name is not known. 

A fine entomological pin (No. 20) should be taken up 
with forceps near the point, and the piece of card witli 
the blank side downwards should be placed on a piece 
of cork felt. The pin, still held in the forceps, should be 
pushed through the card. The hold on the pin should 
then be shifted higher, and the pin pushed still further 
through the card till about half of it is through. The 
pin, still held in the forceps, with the card transfixed on 
it, should then be pushed through the thorax of the 
mosquito. On lifting out the pin the mosquito, which 



196 



MOUNTING MOSQUITOES 



has been transfixed, will remain on the pin, and on turn- 
ing the card upside down the legs and wings can, with a 
few touches of a clean needle, be arranged so as to be 
readily visible, and will not hide any part of the back 
of the insect. A stout pin should then be run through 










FIG. 95. a, Forceps ; b, pin ; c, disc ; d, cork ; ;;/, mosquito ; e, large pin 
to carry disc. 

the corner of the piece of card into the cork felt floor of 
the collecting box. To prevent insects attacking the 
specimens some powdered naphthalin enclosed inlcloth 
should be placed in the box, or melted naphthalin may 
be poured in the corners of the box. 



EXAMINATION OF MOSQUITOES 



197 



To examine such a specimen a low power, one inch or 
two-thirds of an inch, is required. With such a power 
the character of the scales on each part of the insect can 
be examined. The examination should be made by re- 
flected light and the insect so rotated that the part to be 
examined is horizontal. This can be done best by alter- 
ing the inclination of the large pin and using a strip 
of cork felt as a slide (fig. 96). In this way each part of 
the upper surface can be examined in succession. 




FIG. 96. 

To examine the under surface a second mosquito 
mounted with its back towards the card is required. 

The main types of scales found in the Culicida> are 
represented in the drawing (fig. 97).* 

These scales can for descriptive purpose be reduced 
to the small number of types represented : 

(a) Broad, flat, spade-shaped or tile-shaped scales. 

(6) Broad, expanded, asymmetrical scales. 

(c) Narrow, asymmetrical scales. 

(d) Narrow, hair-like scales. 
(<j) Narrow curved scales. 

(/ ^ ) Spindle-shaped scales. 
(h & /) Upright fork scales. 
(j) Long twisted scales. 
(k) Pyriform scales. 



* Figs. 97 and 99 101 are reproduced by kind permission of the 
Editor of the Journal of Tropical Medicine. 



198 



TYPES OF SCALES 




FlG. 97. Types of scales, a to k. Head and scutellar ornamentation, i]to 
5 ; forms of clypeus, 6. I, Head and scutellum of Stegomyia, &c. ; 2, of 
Culex ; 3, of sdes, &c. ; 4, of Megarhinus> &c. ; 5, of Cellia and other 
Anophelina ; 6, clypeus, a, of Culex ; ^', of Stegomyia ; c\ of [oblotia. 
(Theobald.) 



APPENDAGES IQQ 

On the wings other types of scales, either lanceolate, 
long, narrow scales pointed at the free end, or long and 
narrow and with square free ends, are met with (fig. 97). 

Head Appendages. The head appendages can be easily 
seen in most specimens mounted as described, but for 
more minute examination it is better to cut off the head 
and mount it in a shallow cell either as a dry specimen 
or in glycerine jelly. In this way the parts are not much, 
distorted, and if a thin slide be used both sides of the 
specimen can be examined. Canada balsam can be used, 
for the examination of the scales, hairs, &c., but not 
satisfactorily, as they become too transparent. 

Proboscis. To examine the component parts of the 
proboscis it is better not to use the shallow cell, but to 
forcibly compress the head so as to cause the various 
component parts of the proboscis to separate ; in one 
or more specimens all the elements can be seen. 

Palpi. The points to be noted in the palpi are their 
length relative to the proboscis, the number of joints, and 
the colour, shape and arrangement of scales and hairs. 
To determine the number of joints it is necessary to 
remove the scales from the palpi. 

The Antenna;. Their length, and the relative lengths 
of the different joints. The number, length and arrange- 
ment of hairs, and the presence or absence of scales. 

The different regions of the mosquito are shown in the 
diagram (fig. 98). To the head are attached the append- 
ages already mentioned, and, in addition to these, the 
back part of the head, or occiput, requires close 
examination. 

The thorax is composed of three segments fused 
together. The greater part is formed by the second 
segment, or mesothorax. Anteriorly on each side are 
two rounded projections, the prothoracic lobes, the rem- 
nants of the anterior segment. The posterior edge of 
the mesothorax is a narrow, overhanging, trilobed plate 
the scntellnm. The scales on this part of the thorax 
are of generic value. 



200 



ANATOMY OF MOSQUITO 



Proboscis 



Antennae 

PaTpi"" 

Eyes'"" 
Occiput 

Protboracic"' 

lobes 
Mesotborax-" 

Scutellum 

Metothorax"" 
orMetanotum 

First abdomm'al 
segment 

Abdomen 




Basal 
lobes of O 



Basal 
lobes. 

Clasper. 

Proboscis 

Palpi... 
Antennae- 
Basal lobes ofanlennae 

Frons 

Vertex 

Eyes 

Occiput- 
Mope 



FIG. 98. (Theobald). 



METANOTUM 



Partly overlapped by the scutellum is a rounded 
mass connecting the thorax and abdomen, known as 
the metathorax or metanotum. This is the third seg- 






FIG. 99. Types of metathorax (Theobald), a, Culicina ; b, Dendro- 
myina ; c, Joblotina. 

ment of the thorax. On each side of the metathorax 
are the halteres, which arise from the sides of the 
mesothorax. 



2O2 THORAX AND ABDOMEN 

The abdomen is segmented and has no lateral append- 
ages. The last segment terminates in the external 
genitalia. These are of specific but rarely of generic 
value. 

Thorax and Abdomen. In the examination of the dry 
mounted specimen by this method, each part of the 
mosquito should be examined in. turn. By altering the 
angle in the manner described, the different parts repre- 
sented in the diagram can all be clearly made out and 
the character of the scales covering these parts investigated. 

M eta thorax. It is well to first examine the metathorax 
or metanotum. This part is nude in all sub-families 
except Dendromyinat, in which there are hairs, in Joblotince 
including Liniatm, which have both hairs and scales 

( fi g- 99)- 

Scntellum. Overhanging the metathorax is the scutel- 
lum, bordered ,by a row of stiff hairs and covered with 
scales. These scales are not necessarily of the same type 
as those covering the thorax, but are often the same as 
the scales covering the middle of the occiput, with the 
exception that there are no upright fork-scales. The 
scales on the scutellum are of great generic importance 

(fig- 97). 

The character of the scales on the abdomen and thorax 
are used by Mr. Theobald to subdivide the old genus of 
Anopheles, and in the further subdivision of the Culicincc. 

Occiput. The scales on the occiput should next be 
examined. They vary according to genera. The up- 
right fork scales (h and i) are found only in this situa- 
tion. In some genera no other scales are found on the 
head. In most genera the scales at the side of the occiput 
are tile-shaped scales (a), but whilst in some genera 
(Megarhinince) these scales extend all over the middle 
line of the occiput, and are the only scales found, in 
others, as Stegomyia, they are found also with fork-scales ; 
in others, again, they are not found in the middle of the 
occiput, but are replaced by spindle scales (/), either 
alone as in dLdes, or with narrow-curved and upright 
fork-scales as in Culex, Mansonia, &c. (fig. 97). 



WINGS 



203 



Wings. The type of wing venation can be seen in a 
specimen mounted as described above, but is better 
seen in the wings when detached, flattened out and 
examined dry. The character of the scales covering the 
longitudinal veins on the wings must be observed, as 
these are of generic importance (fig. 101). 

The wing venation of the Culicidcc is comparatively 
simple. Here we follow closely in this, as in other 
respects, the description by Mr. Theobald. It is an easy 
one to work with (fig. 100). 

The thickened edge is called the costa, it forms the 
free edge of the wing. The scales on it are of no generic 



1 st 3** 




FIG. loo. Neuration of Wing (Theobald). 

value; these may differ greatly from those on the longi- 
tudinal veins. The scales on the costa in all genera are 
mainly lanceolate. They are of unequal length, arranged 
in two tiers with, at their bases, a third row arranged 
obliquely ; these last are more like the scales on the 
longitudinal veins. The straight edge of the wing, with 
the wing expanded, is the anterior edge, and is therefore 
so described. Next to the costa is a vein running 'from 
the base or attachment of the wing to rather more than 
half-way to the tip, terminating in the costa, this is called 
the sub-costal vein (sc). 

The other veins running from the base towards the 
tip are known by numbers, the most anterior being the 



204 



WIXG SCALES 




Anopheles. 



Cyclolepteron. 



yanthinosoma. 




4 
Mansonia. 



Stegomyia. 



Eretm apodites . 




7 

Culex. 



8 

Mucidus. 



9 

Psorophora . 



FIG. IOI. ^Various Forms of Wing-scales (Theobald), i, Scales on veins 
and on costa in Anopheles ; 2, scales on veins in Cyclolepteron ; 3, scales 
on veins and on costa in Janthinosoma; 4, scales on veins in Mansonia ', 
5, scales on veins in Stegomyia ; 6, scales on veins in Eretmapodiles ; 7, scales 
on veins and on costa in Culex ; 8, scales on veins in Mucidus ; 9, scales on 
veins and on costa of Psorophora. 



WING VENATION 2O5 

first longitudinal. This is a single vein running the 
whole length of the wing and terminating at the tip. It 
is covered with scales in its whole extent. 

The second longitudinal arises from the first nearly 
half-way from the base, and bifurcates before reaching 
the tip. The space enclosed in the bifurcation (D) is 
known as the first fork-cell. 

The third longitudinal arises in the base of the wing, 
but is not covered with scales for nearly the first two- 
thirds, and therefore appears merely as a yellowish line. 
It does not bifurcate. 

The fourth longitudinal arises from the base, is covered 
with scales in its whole extent, and bifurcates near the 
tip, forming the second fork-cell (G). 

The fifth longitudinal arises at the base, is covered with 
scales in its whole extent, and bifurcates half-way up the 
wing, enclosing the third fork-cell (K). 

The sixth does not bifurcate, and terminates in the 
costa about the middle of the posterior border of the 
wing. There are markings or thickenings on the wing 
between the fifth and sixth longitudinal and posterior 
to the sixth, which have no scales and are not regarded 
by Mr. Theobald as veins. The most constant of these 
is scaled in some species of mosquito, which are placed by 
Theobald in a separate subfamily Heptaphlebomyina. Con- 
necting the second and third longitudinal veins is the 
transverse vein. The third and fourth are connected by 
the middle transverse vein, and from the fourth longi- 
tudinal to the anterior division of the fifth is the posterior 
transverse vein. There are definite bands of considerable 
thickness and often contain air. They are not scaled. 
The relative positions of these three transverse veins is 
of some importance in the separation of species. Varia- 
tions cannot be relied on implicitly for this purpose, as 
in some species the arrangement of the transverse veins 
varies considably in different individuals. 



206 CLASSIFICATION 

CLASSIFICATION OF MOSQUITOES. 

In a work of this kind it is not necessary to consider 
more than the identification of the commoner and more 
important genera into which the Culicidcc are divided. 
For fuller details the reader is referred to the systematic 
works on the subject, particularly Mr. Theobald's " Mono- 
graph on the Culicidae." 

The Culicidcc, as has been indicated in the previous 
chapter, constitute a family in the sub-order Orthorrhapha 
nemocera of the order Diptera. Their systematic classi- 
fication has been attempted by several writers, but that of 
Mr. Theobald, which is based largely on the scale char- 
acters of the mature insect, now finds most general 
acceptance. 

The main characteristics of the family have been 
already given (p. 162). In brief, it may be stated that 
the Culicidce may be told by the venation of the wing 
and by the arrangement of scales on the head, body and 
veins of the wing. Other insects which are often mis- 
taken for these have a different form of wing venation, 
and the wings are either bare or ornamented with hairs. 

The male external genitalia are by some considered 
to be of great importance in differentiation of genera. 
The external genitalia vary greatly in different species. 
The general type (see fig. 97) may be described as con- 
sisting of two large fleshy basal lobes each with a terminal 
chitinous clasp segment, always curved and often orna- 
mented with spines. Between the claspers, arising in- 
ternally and ventrally to the claspers, are other chitinous 
processes, the harpes, which may be well developed, formed 
of two segments, or rudimentary. 

Between the harpes and the claspers are a pair of 
clasping organs, the harpagones. 

The chitinous lobes above the cloaca, the setaceous 
lobes, are part of the rudimentary eighth segment. 

The variations of each part are great. They should be 
examined both in the dried specimen, in order to see the 
relative portions of the various parts, and after treatment 



SUB-FAMILIES 2O7 

with liquor potassae, or in flattened specimens, rendered 
transparent in order to make out the details. 

The family Culicidce is divided into various sub- 
families. 

(1) Sub-family Corethrina. Proboscis short and not 
adapted for piercing, palps dependant. These insects 
are incapable of biting man and animals, and play no 
part in the transmission of disease (fig. 102 E). 

(2) Sub-family Megarhinince. Large, brilliantly coloured 
insects. Proboscis long and bent downwards. Palps 
thin towards the extremity and bent upwards, those of 
the male being composed of five segments, those of the 
female varying according to genera. Head clothed with 
flat scales only (fig. 102 F, and fig. 97 4). 

These mosquitoes are found as a rule only in the 
vicinity of the jungle. They rarely attack man. 

Larvae are larviverous. They have a very short respira- 
tory siphon. 

Head, thorax and abdomen thickly covered with flat, 
square-ended scales. Scales of wings small and square- 
ended. First sub-marginal cell much shorter than second 
posterior. Caudal tuft of hairs on each side of abdomen 
in some species. 

(3) Sub-family Anophelince. Proboscis straight and 
adapted for piercing. Palps very nearly as long as the 
proboscis in both sexes, composed of five segments in 
the male and four in the female ; the last two joints in 
the male are expanded. Antennas plumose in the male 
and pilose in the female. 

Head has numerous upright forked scales, a few narrow 
curved scales and flat, square-ended scales at the sides 
in most of the genera. Thorax and abdomen ordinarily 
have few scales as compared with other Culicidce, 
Scutellum simple, never trilobed. The varied covering 
of thorax and abdomen is the basis of the subdivision 
into genera. Wings in most genera marked with black 
or brown patches ; wing scales long and lanceolate or 
fusiform. 






i 











\Pa2p 




FIG. 102. 



A Lateral view of Anopheline. 

B Lateral view of Culicine. 

C Anopheline viewed from above. 



D Culicine viewed from above. 
E Head of Corethra. 
F Head of Megartunina. 




A u I0 ^'~?' Culicine male J 2 . Culicine female ; 3, Anophelina male ; 
4, Anophehna female. 



2IO SUB-FAMILIES 

The female has only one spermatheca. The eggs are 
laid singly, are more or less boat-shaped and float in 
the water, owing to the presence of lateral air chambers. 
Larvae have no respiratory siphon, and when at rest lie 
horizontally on the surface of the water. Pupae have 
trumpet-shaped respiratory siphons. 

The adult mosquito appears very narrow when viewed 
from above, and as seen in profile the long arcs of the 
proboscis, thorax and abdomen form an almost straight 
line. When at rest on a flat surface the insect commonly 
presents an appearance as if standing on its head. 

(4) Sub-family Cnlicincc. Palps in the $ as long or 
longer than the proboscis ; in the ? always much shorter 
than the proboscis ; metanotum nude. 

Viewed from above these mosquitoes appear much 
broader than Aiiopheliuce, and from a lateral aspect have 
a hunch-backed appearance, which is very different from 
that of the Anophclincc (fig. 102). 

The eggs differ markedly in the different genera, both 
in shape and the manner in which they are laid ; in 
the genera Stegoinyia and others they are laid singly, but 
never resemble those of Anophclina^ while in Ciilcx and 
others they are laid in rafts. 

The larvae are provided with a respiratory siphon, and 
when at rest lie obliquely in the water with the head 
downwards. 

(5) Sub-family ^Edincv. Palps short in both sexes. 
Antennae in the males not always plumose. The pro- 
boscis may be very long, and is sometimes clubbed at 
the extremity. Metanotum nude, without hairs or scales 
in most, but in the sub-division Dendroriiyincz there is 
always a tuft of hairs on the metanotum. Blanchard 
makes a sub-family, Sabetiiitv, of this division.* 

This sub-family has been less studied than Anophclina 

* Sub-family Sabetince., Blanchard, corresponds to Dendromyincr, 
Theobald. Palps short in both sexes. Metanotum adorned with 
hairs but no scales. Sabethes, Dendromyia, Sabethoides, Wyeomyia, 
Phoniotnyia, Binotia, are genera in this sub-family. 






SUB-FAMILIES 211 

or Culicina. Most of its members are jungle, mangrove 
or forest mosquitoes. Many of them bite by day. They 
breed in natural collections of water, often in the hollow 
axils of leaves, in pitcher plants or in perforated bamboos. 
They may also breed in swamps, slowly moving water, 
roadside trenches, or in streams. 

Little work has been done to show whether or no they 
can act as carriers of disease, and it is quite possible that 
it may be found that some of the jEdincK can carry 
malaria, as the number of Anophelines in some jungle 
country does not seem to be sufficient to explain the 
great prevalence of malaria in those districts. Many of 
these mosquitoes die very quickly in a dry atmosphere, 
and few of them will feed or live in captivity. 

The remaining sub-families are represented by a few 
rare species and are of little importance to medical 
workers. 

(6) Sub- family Joblotincc (Trichoprosoponincv, Theobald). 
Head, thorax and abdomen covered with square-ended 
scales. Palps short in both sexes. Metanotum adorned 
with hairs and square-ended scales. 

(7) Sub-family Heptaphlebomyince. Head, thorax, scu- 
tellum, metanotum and abdomen as in Culex. Wings 
have a seventh scaled longitudinal vein. 

Four species known. H. simplex (Theobald, 1903) from 
Central Africa (Mashonaland) was the first described. 

Theobald's latest grouping of the Culicidcc is modified 
from that of Lutz, and differs in some respects. He 
divides the Cidicidcc as on page 212. 

There are many points in favour of this classification : 

(1) Corcthrina are separated off from the Culicidcc and 
considered as a distinct family, the Corethridce. 

(2) AiwpJieliiicv and Mcgarhinincv., two groups which 
differ at all stages of their development from the rest of 
the Cnlicidcc, are separated off from the other groups, 
which have many points in common. 

(3) The old group jEdeomyince, containing several 
markedly dissimilar sub-groups, is broken up so that 



212 CLASSIFICATION 

the dLdincv, Uranotcvnicv and Dendroinyince, which are 
naturally distinct groups, are now widely separated. 

Though we consider that the scheme is one which will 
be of practical value and a useful aid in the subdivision 
of the Culicidcv, we have not thought it advisable to adopt 
it in the present unsettled condition of the classification 
of these insects, as it has not received the general approval 
of those working with mosquitoes. 

Culicidce 
I 

i~~ ~\~ \ 

Anophelina. Orthorrhyncha. Megarhtmna. 

Proboscis straight, palpi Proboscis straight, palpi short Proboscis curved, palpi short 
long in ? and $ in ? , long or short in $ or long in ? , long in <? 

r n 

Mitanotopnla: Metanototnchcc 

\ \ 



Heteropalpa . Micropalpa. Heteropalpce. Micropalpa. 

Palpi short in ? , long Palpi short in ? Palpi short in ? , Palpi short in ? 

in <? and $ long in cf and <f 

L_ I I I 

I I I I I I I 

Cuhcince. Heptaphlebomyina. ALdince. Uranotanina. Trichoporo- Dendromyince, Litnatina. 

Wings, 6 Wings with First fork- First fork- sosopina. Proboscis Proboscis 

longitudinal 7 longitudinal cell large cell large straight. elbowed, 

scaled veins scaled veins 

(1) Genera of sub-family Corctlirincc. 

Metatarsus longer than first tarsal joint Corethra. 

Metatarsus shorter than first tarsal joint Mochlonyx. 

(2) Genera of sub-family McgnrJiinitia'. This sub- 
family is divided by Theobald into two genera. 

Palpi long in both sexes Megarhinus. 

Palpi short in the female Toxorrhynchites. 

The differences between these two genera are com- 
paratively slight, and a division founded on the absence 
or presence of lateral caudal tufts would be simpler, but 
would not quite correspond with Theobald's division. 

(3) Genera of sub-family A nophelincv (Theobald). Theo- 
bald now subdivides this sub-family into sixteen genera. 

The practical value of the subdivision of the Anophclimi' 



AXOPHELIX^E 

into so many genera is disputed by many medical men. 
There are few branches of natural history in which such 
enormous advances have been made as in our know- 
ledge of the Cnlicidcu, and each year there are additions 
to this knowledge. 

Of the Anopheluicc about one hundred species are now 
known. This is too large a number to be conveniently 
grouped into one genus. A subdivision is necessary, and 
some grouping will be made automatically by any one 
working with these insects. It is better that a uniform 
system should be adopted than that each worker should 
make his own groups. 

The subject is so large that it is now a special branch, 
and we propose merely to deal with selected parts of it 
and select such groups as are represented by common 
species, and by species known to carry malaria. 

It is unfortunate that the grouping into genera based 
on the external characters of the adults does not corre- 
spond with grouping according to the power of carrying 
malaria, or with the class of breeding place or the habits 
of the mosquitoes. In one genus, Myzotnyia, are included 
the harmless M. rossi and the harmful M. funesta, the 
first essentially a foul or stagnant water breeder, the 
second breeding in fresh water, preferably in streams. 

In another genus, Anopheles, are included A. macidi- 
pciuiis, which hibernates through an English winter, 
whilst the larve are killed by cold, and A. bifurcattis, 
which is killed by cold though the larvae can survive 
an English winter. 

ANOPHELIN/E. 

Of the eighteen genera, eight are represented by one 
or two species only ; one of these, Stethomyia, is repre- 
sented by three species, including Stcthotnyia fragilis 
(Anopheles treacherii}. This genus is very similar to 
Anopheles, in that the scales on the wings are all the same 
colour. The flat scales on the head on which the separa- 
tion is now based are very scanty. The mammilation 



214 GENERA OF ANOPHELIN^E 

of the prothoracic lobes, which was formerly described as 
the characteristic, is not present in all species. 

The eight genera, represented each by a single species 
and in some cases by a single specimen, are separated off 
on various grounds. They are : 

Feltinella, in which the basal lobe of the male genitalia 
is divided into two segments. One species, F. pallidapalpi. 

Myzorhynchella. Head is clothed with long, flattened, 
outstanding scales not closely applied to the head, but not 
so erect as the upright fork-scales. 

CJirystya, similar to Myzorhynchus, but separated by the 
possession of long lateral tufts of hairlike scales on the 
abdomen. 

Lophoscelontyia, resembles Nyssorhynchus, but differs 
in that there are long tufts of scales on the femora of the 
hind legs. Bamboo breeder. 

Kertcszia. Intermediate between Myzorhynchus and 
Cellia. 

Bironella. Male only known. 

Chagasia. Antennae of female have whorls of scales 
as well as hairs and dense outstanding scales at the side 
of the thorax. 

Aldrichia. Thorax and abdomen scaled as in Culex. 
One specimen. 

The more important of the groups or genera of Anophc- 
liinT are Anopheles, Myzomyia, Cycloleppteron, Stethomyia, 
Pyretophorus, Myzorhynchus, Nyssorhynchus, Cellia. 

o (i) Only upright fork-scales on head ; wing 



T3 w 
H (rt M 



c -^ 



scales lanceolate and uniform in colour Anopheles. 



^ -^ (2) Some flat head scales Stethomyia. 

No flat head scales., long and narrovv .. Myzomyia. 
Scales J 



((3) Wing scales mostly 





lours ' ( large and inflated Cycloleppteron. 

(5) Thorax with some narrow curved scales ; 

abdomen hairy Pyretophorus. 

(6) Thorax with hair-like curved scales, some 

narrow curved ones in front ; abdomen 
with apical lateral scale tufts, scaly 
venter ; no ventral tuft 



GENERA OF ANOPHELIN^E 215 

(7) Thorax with hair-like curved scales ; ab- 

dominal scales on venter only, with a 

distinct ventral apical tuft Myzorhynchus. 

(8) Abdominal scales as lateral dorsal 

patches of small flat scales ; thoracic 
scales narrow and curved, or spindle- 
t o I shaped Nyssorhynchus. 

(9) Abdomen nearly completely covered with 

irregular scales and with lateral tufts... Cellia. 
(10) No lateral tufts and smaller wing scales Neocellia. 

This subdivision is in the main as given by Theobald, 
and now that the known species belonging to the Ano- 
phdincv are so numerous, a subdivision is necessary. 
James argues that as in any one country the number is 
comparatively small a complete description of the species 
found in each country would suffice for practical pur- 
poses, but with this argument we do -not agree. 

Some of Theobald's points are very difficult to make 
out, and this is particularly so as regards the wing scales. 

Genus Anopheles. Thorax and abdomen clothed with 
hairs only ; the palpi in the female are thin, not densely 
scaled, and generally unbanded. Wing veins covered 
with long lanceolate scales, which may or may not form 
spots. These spots, if present, are never so numerous as 
in other genera, and are not formed by different colouring 
of the scales. In the female a single spermatheca only 
is present. 

These mosquitoes may be said to be characterised by 
their extreme baldness. They are of comparatively large 
size. 

The genus includes two well-known carriers of the 
parasites of malaria in sub-tropical and temperate climates, 
A. macnlipennis and A. bifnrcatns. 

Anopheles macnUpcnnis, the type of the genus, is easily 
recognised. It is a yellowish-brown mosquito ; neither 
legs, proboscis, nor palps are banded. Four black spots 
on the wings formed by accumulation of scales. It does 
not assume the Anopheline position as markedly as most 
Anophelines. 



2l6 SPECIES OF ANOPHELIN.^ 

This mosquito is widely distributed in Europe, from 
the borders of the Mediterranean to Scandinavia. It is 
found also in Algeria, Palestine, the United States and 
Canada. In England it is common ; according to 
Nuttall its distribution in England agrees to some extent 
with the old malarious districts. 

A. maculipennis is the most active propagator of malaria 
in Europe, Algeria, Tunis, and the United States. It has 
been shown to be capable of serving as a definitive host 
for all forms of the malaria parasite. It is also an inter- 
mediate host of Filaria iiuuiitis. 

In the winter in temperate climates the larvae die, but 
the imago can hibernate all through an English winter. 

Anopheles bifurcatus is easily distinguished from the 
preceding species by having no spots on the wings. 
Its distribution corresponds in a general way with that 
of A. maculipenuis, but is a less common species and does 
not frequent houses. 

This mosquito is also an active carrier of malaria, and 
has been shown to be more easily infected experimentally 
than even A. maculipennis. In an English winter the 
adult forms are killed, but the larvae remain alive even 
if the water be frozen throughout the winter. 

Genus Myzomyia. Thorax and abdomen with hair- 
like curved scales. The wings are spotted, and have 
mostly long, thin or narrow lanceolate lateral vein scales. 
They are usually small or moderate-sized mosquitoes. 
Head scales. 

Myzomyia rossii is distinguished by the ornamentation 
of the wings. Along the costa are four large patches of 
dark brown or black scales. The large middle spot has 
a small dark spot below it in the centre, giving it a T- 
shaped appearance. 

This mosquito is the " large dappled-winged mosquito " 
which Major Ross, in his work in 1899 in Calcutta, failed 
to infect with malaria. It is a common mosquito in 
various parts of India and the East, chiefly in the neigh- 
bourhood of towns. It breeds in muddy pools or 
shallow tanks, even in cess-pools. 



SPECIES OF ANOPHELIK 217 

This mosquito has never been found infected with the 
parasites of human malaria in nature. It may serve as 
an intermediate host for Filar ia bancrofti. 

Myzomyiafunesta. A small, rather dark mosquito. The 
black costa is marked by six pale spots ; there is always 
a pale costal spot near the base. The black scales upon 
the wing veins are also interrupted by white spots. There 
are pale spots on the fringe of the wings at the points of 
insertion of the longitudinal veins. 

This mosquito is widely distributed in Central and 
West Africa, and is an important carrier of the parasites 
of human malaria in those regions. It frequents houses, 
but does not leave them in the daytime, hiding in dark 
corners high up out of the reach of the breeze from doors 
and windows. It feeds in the early hours of the evening 
by preference, but at other times as well. 

Myzomyia culici fades. Has unhanded legs, and the 
largest light costal area near the base of the wing. There 
are only three light areas on the fringe of the wings. It 
appears to be a carrier of malaria in India. 

Pyretophorus. Thorax with narrow curved scales, not 
hairlike as in Myzomyia. Abdomen with hairs. Wings 
with small, short, lanceolate or narrowish scales, much 
spotted as a rule. Legs banded, sometimes spotted. 

Pyretophorus costalis. Told by the curious mottled 
character of the femora and tibiae. The wings may 
be said to be white spotted with black, in contrast to 
M.funcsta, which are black spotted with white. 

This species is also widely distributed over the whole 
of Central Africa and the West Coast. The larvae are 
found in abundance during the rainy season in puddles 
in West Coast towns. It is the most common Anophe- 
line on the sea-coast. 

Like A. maciilipennis it serves as a definitive host for 
the parasites of all forms of human malaria. It also is 
an occasional intermediate host of Filaria bancrofti. 

Genus Myzorhynchus. Thorax with hair-like scales. 
Abdomen with ventral scales and a ventral apical tuft. 



2l8 SPECIES OF AXOPHELIJMS 



Wing scales moderately broad and lanceolate. Palpi 
and proboscis densely scaled. In some species this 
scaling is so thick that the proboscis and palps appear 
to be very thick as seen with the naked eye. 

Myzorhynchus sinensis. A brownish mosquito. Thorax, 
slaty-grey background with purplish-brown longitudinal 
stripes, adorned more or less with pale golden scales. 
Found in China, Formosa, Malay Archipelago, &c. 

Myzorhynchus barbirostris. In this species the palpi 
are densely covered with deep black scales. The pro- 
thoracic lobes have dense tufts of large black scales 
projecting forwards. Found in Malaya and Old Calabar. 

Both these species can carry filaria. They are difficult 
to infect with parasites of malaria, and are probably not 
important carriers, as they may be numerous in towns 
where malaria is not prevalent. 

Genus Nyssorhynchus. Thorax with narrow curved and 
spindle-shaped scales. Abdomen with ventral scales, 
and sometimes dorsal patches. Wing scales bluntly 
lanceolate. (The legs are always banded or spotted with 
white). 

N. Intzi is said to be a malaria-carrier in Brazil. 

N. fnligiiiosus. Probably the " small dapple-winged 
mosquito " of Ross. 

Genus Cellia. Thorax with flat spindle-shaped scales. 
Abdomen scaled, the scales irregularly disposed on the 
dorsum and on the venter, forming dense bifid tufts 
on each segment. Palpi densely scaled. W T ings covered 
with large bluntly lanceolate scales. 

Cellia pharccnsis is found in Africa, C. kochii in Asia, 
C. argvrottirsis and C. albipcs in the West Indies and 
South America. 

These mosquitoes may breed in fairly dirty water. 
C. kochii is commonly found in outlying villages or 
suburbs of towns. They are night biters as a rule. 

C. argyrotarsis is one of the most important carriers of 
malaria in Tropical America. C. kochii probably acts 
as a carrier in the Malay Peninsula and Archipelago. 






CULICINA 219 

These mosquitoes are common in the most malarial 
settlements in these countries. 

CULICINA. 

Genera of the sub-family Culicina. This sub-family in- 
cludes a large number of mosquitoes. Numerous genera 
have been created by Mr. Theobald with a view to 
simplifying the identification. It is not proposed to deal 
here with all of these genera, but only such as are known 
to be of importance from the medical point of view. 
Mr. Theobald's table is appended, but those who wish 
to go into the matter more fully should consult his 
monograph. 

The type, Culex pipiens, has narrow curved scales on the 
head and scutellum. On the head there are also upright 
fork-scales at the back, and flat tile-shaped scales at the 
sides (see diagram, p. 198). The lateral scales on the 
veins of the wings are long and narrow, those running 
along the vein are shorter and broader. 

1. Certain genera can be told at once by the char- 
acters of the scales on the wing, though in 
other respects they may resemble the genus 
Culex. 

(a) Wing scales broad and asymmetrical (see 

fig. 101, p. 204) Mansonia. 

(I?) Wing scales broad-ended or pyriform, sym- 
metrical, and often parti-coloured (see fig. 101, 
p. 204) Mucidtis. 

(c) Wing scales thick and elongated, ending 
either diagonally or convexly, more or less 
bluntly pointed Tceniorhynchus. 

2. Other important genera are characterised by 
having the head and scutellum entirely covered 
with flat, square-ended scales arranged like 
tiles on a roof (see fig. 97, i). 

(a) Palpi of ? short, of $ thickened apically 

and tufted Stegomyia. 

(b} Palpi of % longer than in Stegomyia, of $ 

long, thin, acuminate and without tufts Desvoidea. 

3. Other genera have head and scutellar scales of 
the Culex type, but are differentiated on various 
grounds. 



220 



CULICINA 



(a) Wing scales long, narrowly lanceolate, 
and collected in spots ; palpi clubbed in 

the $ Thcobaldia. 

(V} Wing scales at apex of veins dense and 
rather broad ; femora swollen. Small dark 

mosquitoes Mdanconion. 

(c) Wings with short, thick, median scales, 
and short, broad lateral ones on some of 

the veins ; scales mottled Grabhamia. 

4. Peculiarly twisted scales arranged in whorls on 
the sixth, seventh, eighth, and sometimes ninth 
joints of the antennas in the males. The 
females show no similar scaling. Fairly com- 
mon mosquitoes throughout Malaya and in 
Brazil LopJioceratomyia. 

For purely diagnostic purposes Theobald arranges the 
genera somewhat differently. The table subjoined is 
based on this arrangement. 

A. Legs more or less densely scaled. 

(a) Head not entirely clothed with flat scales. 

1. All the legs densely scaled. 

Wings with large pyriform scales ... Mucidiis. 

Wings with narrow scales Psorophora. 

2. Hind legs only densely scaled Janthinosoma 

(b) Head entirely clothed with flat scales. 

Wing scales long and rather thick. 

Hind legs of $ with apical scaly paddle Erctmapodites. 

B. Legs uniformly scaled with flat scales. 

(a) Head and scutellar scales all flat and 
broad. 

1. Palpi of ? short, of $ thickened 

apically and tufted Stcgomyia. 

2. Palpi of $ longer than in Stegomyiti, 

and in $ thin, acuminate, simple ... Desi'oidca. 

(b) Head scales mostly flat, but a median line 
of narrow curved ones ; scutellar scales 
flat on mid-lobe, narrow curved on lateral 

lobes; 3 palpi longer than probosis Macleaya. 

(c) Head scales mostly flat, irregular, narrow 
curved ones behind ; mid-lobe scutellum 
with flat scales, lateral lobes with narrow 

curved ; 3 palpi shorter than proboscis Calageiomyia. 






CULICINA 221 

(d) Head scales mostly flat, but a few narrow 
curved ones in middle in front ; scutellar 

scales all flat Scutomyia. 

(e) Head scales all flat ; scutellar scales all 
narrow curved Skusea. 

(f) Head with flat scales, except a small 

median area of narrow curved ones ; 

scutellar scales all narrow curved Howardina. 

(g) Head with all flat scales, except a thin 

line of narrow curved ones behind ; 

scutellar scales all narrow curved Danielsia. 

(Ji) Head with small flat scales, over most of 

surface, with median line and line around 

eyes of narrow curved ones ; scutellar 

scales bluntly spindle or club-shaped Hulecceteomyia. 

(/) Head and scutellar scales narrow curved. 

1. Wing scales long, narrowly lanceo- 
late, collected in spots ; palpi clubbed 

in $ , five-jointed and rather long in $ Theobaldia. 

2. Wing scales (lateral) long and narrow ; 
palpi in $ not clubbed, or hairy, in $ 
three-jointed Culcx. 

3. Wing scales at apex of veins dense 
and rather broad ; femora swollen. 

Small dark species Melanoconion. 

4. Wings with short, thick median scales 
and short, broadish lateral ones on 
some of the veins ; scales mottled ; 

fork-cells rather short Grabhamia. 

5. Wings with dense, broadish, elon- 
gated, truncated scales Tceniorhynchus. 

6. Wings with broad, short, asymme- 
trical scales Mansonia. 

(/) Head covered with rather broad, flat, 
spindle-shaped scales ; scutellum with 
small flat scales to mid-lobe Gilesia. 

(k] Head clothed with flat, irregularly dis- 
posed scales all over, with patches of 
narrow curved ones ; $ palpi clubbed ... Acarfomyia. 

(/) Abdomen with projecting, flat lateral 
scales with deeply dentate apices ; wings 
not ornamented Lasioconops. 

(/;/) Wings ornamented ; scutellum with flat 

and narrow curved scales Finlaya. 



222 CULEX STEGOMYIA 

(ri) Head flattened laterally. Palps in 
female nearly half the length of the pro- 
boscis. Spindle-shaped scales round the 
eyes, otherwise scaled as in Stcgcmyia. 
Common jungle mosquitoes in Malaya ... Leicesteria. 

Genus Cnlex. Head with narrow curved and upright 
fork-scales only on the occiput. Narrow curved or 
spindle-shaped scales on the scutellum. On the wing 
veins short truncated median scales and long, thin lateral 
ones. 

The genus Cnlex has been of late much subdivided, 
but is still a very difficult one and includes a large 
number of species that rather closely resemble each 
other. 

The type mosquito of the genus, Cnlex pipicns, is a 
common English variety and is widely distributed in the 
temperate regions, and may be met with in houses at any 
time of the year. The females hibernate in cellars and 
outhouses. 

Culex fatigans. Abdomen dusky black with basal pure 
white bands and basal white lateral spots ; pleura? and 
metanotum chestnut-brown, thorax with two dark parallel 
lines. 

This mosquito is found everywhere in tropical and 
sub-tropical countries. It is a domestic species and 
passes its life in the vicinity of houses. 

It is the chief carrier of Filaria noctunia, and also 
serves as the definitive host of Proteosoina of birds. 

Genus Stcgomyia. For the most part black and white 
mosquitoes. Head completely covered with broad flat 
scales, some upright forked scales (fig. 97). Mesothorax 
with narrow curved on spindle-shaped scales. Scutellum 
always with broad flat scales on the middle lobe, and 
usually with similar scales on the lateral lobes. Abdomen 
completely covered with flat scales, banded or unbanded, 
with white spots on the lateral aspect. Wings similar to 
Cnlex ; fork-cells shorter. Eggs laid singly. Larvae with 
short, broad respiratory siphon. 

Mosquitoes of this genus have a. wide distribution in 



MAXSOXIA 223 

the tropical zone. They are all hardy mosquitoes, 
Stegomyia calopus (S. fasciata) being especially so. 

Stegomyia calopus (S. fasciata} is distinguished by the 
marking on the thorax, which has a curved silvery line on 
each side, and two dull yellow parallel ones in the middle. 
This marking is, however, subject to some variation. 

This species is widely distributed in the Tropics, and is 
also found in temperate climates, ow r ing probably to the 
ease with which it may be carried in ships as ova, larvae, 
or adults. It is the carrier of Yellow Fever and there- 
fore most important. 

Stegomyia scntcllaris is another member of this genus 
which is very common in some districts : it is important 
to distinguish it from S. calopus. It is easily recognised 
by the presence of a single white band down the centre 
of the thorax. Abdomen and legs banded black and 
white in both species. 

This species is widely distributed in Asia and is a 
severe biter. It is common in the jungle and may be 
found where there are no human habitations, but is also 
very common in small and large settlements, and may 
infest houses and breed in similar places to S. fasciata. 

Genus Mansonia. Head clothed with narrow curved 
scales and numerous long upright forked scales. Thorax 
and scutellum with narrow curved scales and many 
hairs. Wings densely scaled with characteristic broad, 
asymmetrical scales (fig. 101). Spermatheca two in the 
female. Eggs, form of bottle, laid singly. 

This genus includes several species commonly found in 
the Tropics. No representative of the genus has yet been 
found in Europe. 

The wing scales are characteristic, but in the genus 
ALdeomyia scales of very similar appearance are found- 
It is of importance, therefore, that the sub-family should 
be accurately determined, and in case of doubt both male 
and female should be examined. 

Members of this genus are found in the neighbourhood 
of marshes and along the course of rivers and streams 
with sedge-grown banks and edges. 



224 jEDINA 

One species, M. unifonnis, a brownish variety, is the 
common carrier of rilariasis on the Zambesi and in parts 
of Central Africa. M. nnnnlipes also can carry filaria. 

M. annnlipcs is a banded black and white mosquito 
having a superficial resemblance to a Stegomyia. Exami- 
nation with a hand lens will show the characteristic 
marking of the thorax, three whitish spots on the front 
margin of the thorax and three others about the middle. 

The colours are not those of a Stegomyia, as the dark is 
a dark brown, and the white is not the silvery white of 
Stegomyia. 

Genera of Sub-family jEdina: :* 

I. Metanotum nude. 

A. Antennae pilose in $ and $? . 

Second joint very long Deinocerites. 

B. Antennae plumose in $ . 

1. Head clothed with narrow, curved and 
flat scales. Middle lobe of scutellum 
with six border bristles. 

(a) Scutellum with narrow, curved 
scales ; palpi in % four-jointed, in 

$ two-jointed sEdes. 

Mid-lobe of scutellum with four 
border bristles, palpi in $ four- 
jointed, apical joint invisible Hou'ardina. 

(b) Scutellum with flat scales sEdeomorphus. 

2. Head clothed with flat scales only. 

(a) Fork cells normal length. 

(1) Mid-lobe of scutellum with 
four border bristles ; palpi 
of $ two-jointed. Small 

dark species Verallina. 

Palpi of $ five-jointed, 
metallic Hamogogus. 

(2) Mid-lobe of scutellum with 
six border bristles ; palpi 

of three-jointed Skusea. 

(b] Fork scales very small or small. 

* In Theobald's recent classification Uranotanina is made a sub- 
family, including those mosquitoes with very small first fork cell. 



,DIN/1 



(1) vScutellar scales flat. 

First sub-marginal cell 
longer than the second 
posterior ; no flat scales 
on mesothorax Ficalbia. 

First sub-marginal cell 
smaller than second pos- 
terior ; flat scales on 
mesothorax Uranotcenia. 

(2) Scutellar scales narrow, 
curved ; first sub-marginal 

as in Uranotcenia Mimomyia. 

Wings with Mansonia-\fe& 

scales ^dcomyice. 

II. Metanotum ornamented with hairs only. Some- 
times described as a sub-family Dendromyina. 

A. With hairs only. 

Proboscis longer than whole body ; lateral 

wing scales Tceniorhynchus-\&x. Phoniomyia. 

Proboscis as long as whole body in $ , 
frons drawn out into a prominence ; wing 
scales rather long and broad Binotia. 

Proboscis not as long as whole body ; lateral 

wing scales narrow Wyeomyia. 

Proboscis not as long as whole body ; 
swollen apically ; wing scales long and 
broad Dendromyia. 

B. With hairs and scales. 

Proboscis straight in $ and $ ; legs with 

scaly paddles Sabethes. 

Venation as Sabethes ; legs simple Sabethoides. 

Venation like Cule.r Goeldia. 

Proboscis in $ elbowed, with two scaly tufts Limatus. 

The &dincK include a large number of genera and 
species which differ very markedly from each other as 
well as from the Citlicince. Few- of them frequent towns 
or houses, and many of them are bush, jungle, or swamp 
mosquitoes. Some of them attack man in their free 
state, and many bite only or mainly in the daytime. 
They have been less studied than Culicince and Anophe- 
UncVj and are not known to carry disease. The frequency 
with which malaria is acquired in some jungle districts 
where Anophelines are not abundant, suggests the possi- 
15 



226 EGGS LARVAE 

bility that some of these mosquitoes may act as carriers 
of malaria. Experimental evidence is wanting and is 
difficult to obtain, as most of the ^Etliiuv will not feed in 
captivity or when bred from larvae, and many of them 
die rapidly in captivity. Some species are so susceptible 
to a dry atmosphere that they will die in a few hours 
after their removal from the jungle. 

In nature they rarely leave the jungle in which they 
live. This is very marked with some species, so much 
so that standing at the edge of a clearing, one hand thrust 
into the jungle will be covered with mosquitoes, whilst 
the other hand in the open will not be attacked at all. 

The eggs of only a few species of the sEilimv arc- 
known. Frequently they form raft- like masses, differing 
from those of Culex fatigans in that they are less compact. 

The known larvae all have a respiratory siphon, which 
may be very short and broad, and resemble Stcgoinvia 
larvae, or may be very long and thin. In some instances 
the respiratory siphons are profusely ornamented with 
simple or compound hairs. The abdominal and thoracic 
segments may be similarly adorned. 

The larvae of some genera lie nearly horizontally at the 
surface of the water when at rest, and are frequently 
mistaken for Anopheline larvae if the, respiratory siphon 
is not observed. 

Many of the dLdincc have very special breeding places, 
such as natural collections of water in various plants, 
pitcher plants. &c., the water collected in the joints of 
growing bamboos which have been perforated by cceleop- 
terous and other larvae, or in the axils of leaves. Others 
will breed freely in swamps, puddles, streams, or at the 
edges of rivers. 

The synopsis should enable the reader to distinguish 
the chief genera common in any part of the world, but 
is far from being complete.* For distinction of species, 



* For full information the reader is advised to consult the "Mono- 
graph of the Culicida? Theobald, vols. iii. and iv. 






DIFFICULTIES 227 

the size, colouring, and particularly the markings on the 
legs, thorax and wings, and slight modifications in the 
arrangement of the cross-veins of the wings, become 
important. With the Anoplicluuv the markings on the 
posterior pair of legs are in some instances sufficient for 
the identification of species. 

The reader is warned not to be alarmed at the apparent 
magnitude of the subject. It is true that this table 
does not give all the genera, but, on the other hand, many 
of the genera are of limited distribution, and in few 
places will there be more than some thirty common 
species of mosquitoes, which can readily be subdivided 
into their respective genera ; and often the species can 
be easily identified by reference to the standard books 
if not they should be forwarded to England for identifi- 
cation. For the distinction of species the amateur will 
often be much helped by examination of the eggs or 
larvae, as these sometimes show more obvious differences 
than the adults. 

For examination of the external characters of mosqui- 
toes the method of mounting on entomological pins is 
in every way preferable. They may be mounted in 
Canada balsam, but this method has some disadvantages, 
as the scales are rendered too transparent, and the non- 
scaled veins, particularly the cross-veins, are difficult to 
make out. Theobald mounts wings and other parts 
separately in Canada balsam. 

To mount in Canada balsam the insect should be 
placed on its back with the legs separated and the wings 
spread out. A small drop of thick Canada balsam is 
placed on a slide. The slide is then held in the hand 
so that the drop o.f Canada balsam is on the under sur- 
face, and this is gently pressed against the thorax of the 
mosquito, and the mosquito adheres to it on lifting 
it. The slide should then be turned over so that the 
mosquito rests on it. The wings and legs should be 
arranged to taste, and a drop more of fluid Canada 
balsam placed on the mosquito ; as this flows over the 



228 MOUNTING 

mosquito it will cause the head appendages to spread 
out. A mosquito so arranged will keep indefinitely. 
To complete the process a glass ring should be cemented 
round the mosquito, and when firmly set the cell so 
formed should be filled with balsam and a cover-glass 
placed over it. 

Mounted in glycerine jelly the mosquito retains its 
natural colouring. The best method of mounting in 
glycerine jelly is to make a deep cell with a glass ring 
and slide. Lay the mosquito at the bottom and fill the 
cell with the jelly by placing in hot water. Place a 
cover-glass over the jelly, taking care to avoid air bubbles. 
It is very difficult to arrange a mosquito in the jelly. 
Specimens mounted in this manner often have their legs 
interlaced. It is a useful method for mosquitoes which 
have been kept in spirit, as such mosquitoes are too 
brittle to stand any handling, and cannot be pinned out. 

Specimens so mounted should be ringed with some 
varnish as soon as the jelly is set, otherwise evaporation 
will take place and the jelly shrink, resulting in the 
formation of air bubbles. If this accident should happen 
the cover-glass must be removed from the jelly and fresh 
glycerine jelly added. This is easily done by dissolving 
off the cement and gently warming to melt the jelly. 
The cover-glass can then be removed and fresh jelly 
melted and added. The cover-glass is to be replaced, 
and when the jelly has set cemented on. 



229 



CHAPTER XII. 

DISSECTION OF MOSQUITOES. 

THE' internal anatomy of the mosquito is not very 
complicated, and the more important parts are easily 
dissected out. 

The alimentary canal is a tube with dilatations running 
from the proboscis to the anus, which is terminal. The 
proboscis is suctorial and piercing and composed of the 




FIG. 104. a, Antennae; cl, clypeus ; /jce t labrum-epipharynx ; mn, man- 
dibles ; hp, hypopharynx ; t/ix, maxillae ; /a, labium mp, maxillary palps ; 
lab, labella. (After Nuttall.) 



following parts (fig. 104) : (i) Below is a deeply-grooved, 
fleshy labium ; this contains air tubes, is covered with 
scales, and forms what appears to be the proboscis, as 
when the mosquito is at rest the other elements are con- 
tained in the groove. It terminates in two small jointed 
lobes the Uibcllcv. (2) Above is the labrum, or more 



2 3 



MOUTH PARTS 



correctly, the labrum-epipharynx, as this part results from 
the fusion of the labrum and epipharynx. The labrum 
is deeply grooved on the under surface and terminates 
in a sharp point. (3) This groove is, by the apposition 
of the hypopharynx, converted into a tube up which the 
food is sucked; this tube is continuous with the cavity 
of the pumping organ. The hypopharynx is a flattened 
chitinous rod terminating in a sharp point ; it is 
strengthened in the middle by a ridge, and in this 
thickening is contained a minute tube, the termination 





FIG. 105. a, Antennae ; cl, clypeus ; tup, maxillary palps ; Ixe, labrum - 
epipharynx ; wn, mandibles ; mx, maxillae. 



of the salivary duct. Down this minute tube the saliva 
is ejected into the depths of the wound made by the 
penetrating parts of the proboscis. (4) There are two 
pairs of piercing organs, the mandibles and maxilhv ; 
both of these are thin strips of chitin with sharp cutting 
edges terminating in a lancet-like point. The cutting 
edge may or may not be serrated. In most species the 
maxillae only have a serrated edge (fig. 105). 

In the male the mandibles are well developed, but less 
so than in the female ; the maxilla; are absent in some 



MOUTH PARTS 231 

species ; the hypopharynx is closely adherent to the 
labrum in its whole length. 

Of these elements the labiuin mainly acts as a sheath 
and protects the more delicate parts of the proboscis 
from injury. It does not penetrate the skin. The tip 
is applied firmly to the skin, and in the angle between 
the two labellae all the other elements of the proboscis 
are thrust into the skin (fig. 106). No doubt it aids in 
penetration by keeping together and rendering more rigid 
the other elements, and as it is supplied by nerves aids 
in the selection of a suitable place for puncture. 



li. 







FlG. 106. li, Labium ; la, labella ; Ixe, labrum-epipharynx ; mx, maxillae; 
11111, mandibles. 

As the other elements penetrate the skin the labium 
becomes bent on itself, as depicted in the diagram. 

The penetrating elements form two tubes, with the 
mandibles and maxillae at the sides. Up the superior 
tube formed by the groove of the epipharynx and the 
flat hypopharynx the blood is sucked, whilst the saliva 
is ejected through the small tube in the hypopharynx 
(fig. 107). 

The main points in the anatomy of the proboscis can 
be readily demonstrated. The hypopharynx often closely 



2 3 2 



MOl'TH PARTS 



adheres to the labrum-epipharynx, so that it is the most 
difficult component to separate and identify. 

To demonstrate the two tubes formed by the apposition 
of these elements, transverse sections of the proboscis 
are requisite. From the tubes thus formed by the epi- 
pharynx and hypopharynx the blood is conveyed into 
the pumping organ, which is composed of three chitinous 
plates, to which muscles are attached. This in turn 
forces the blood into a membranous tube which is con- 




hp. 



sal 



FIG. 107. Ixe, Labrum-epipharynx ; inn, mandibles ; hp, hypopharynx ; sat, 
salivary duct ; tr, trachea ; r/ius t muscle ; MX, maxilla. 

tinuous with the commencement of the oesophagus. 
These parts also can only be satisfactorily demonstrated 
in sections. 

The rest of the alimentary canal is best shown by 
dissections. 

Dissection. Mosquitoes can be killed in many ways. 
With those required for dissection no great precaution 
need be taken, as it is immaterial if the scales are knocked 
off. They can be killed with tobacco (cigarette) smoke, 
chloroform vapour, or stunned by concussion. 

Dissection of Aliiucnt(ii'\ (.'mini. The mosquito should 
be caught in a test tube. This is done by placing 
the test tube slowly over a resting mosquito. If it is 



DISCUSSION 233 

done rapidly the mosquito will take alarm and usually 
escape. It is important to so approach the mosquito 
that no shadow falls on it. By proceeding cautiously 
mosquitoes are readily caught in this way, and they then 
fly to the closed end of the tube. With practice nine or 
ten mosquitoes can be caught in this manner in one tube. 

Six clean slides and cover-glasses should be prepared, 
and on three of them a drop of normal saline solution 
should be placed ; the other three should be left dry. 
Two sharp needles are also required. 

After killing or stunning the mosquito it should be 
transfixed through the thorax with a mounted needle 
and the legs and wings pulled off and dropped on a 
clean dry slide. This can be easily done with the fingers, 
but there is no objection to the use of forceps. These 
can be examined dry by covering with a cover-glass and 
fixing this with gummed paper, or they can be mounted 
in glycerine jelly or Canada balsam. 

The mosquito, denuded of its limbs, is placed in the 
saline solution on one of the slides. The posterior part 
of the abdomen is gently flattened with the shaft of a 
needle and two nicks made, one on each side, about the 
junction of the second and third last segments (fig. 108). 
This weakens the exoskeleton at that point so much 
that when traction is made on the last segment the 
exoskeleton breaks. 

Traction is best exercised by fixing with the point of 
one needle the thorax and laying the other flat on the 
last segment and steadily dragging away from the head. 

In the space between the broken ends of the exoskele- 
ton a series of white strands will be seen the intestine 
and Malpighian tubes. On further traction the stomach 
and part of the oesophagus will appear (fig. 109.) 

If the traction be continued from the end there is a 
risk that the stomach may break off. It is better to shift 
the needle from the posterior segments to the oesophagus 
at the point of emergence from the broken end of the 
abdomen, and pull slightly obliquely on this so as to drag 









FIG. 108. 






DISSECTION 



235 



the rest of the oesophagus out of the abdomen and thorax. 
It should be covered with a cover-glass. 

The stomach with its appendages can now be examined 
directly. The genital organs will be still attached to 
the terminal segments of the mosquito and can be 
examined at the same time. To show them completely 
it is better under the microscope to tease off the remainder 
of the exoskeleton of the last two segments. 








FIG. 109. 



The remainder of the mosquito should be placed in 
the drop of saline solution on one of the other slides 
for the dissection of the salivary glands. 

To dissect the salivary glands there are several methods. 
The one described here is that which is most readily 
learnt and by which uniform results can be obtained 



236 SALIVARY GLANDS 

fairly readily. It has the disadvantage that other tissues 
are present in the dissection and may conceal more or 
less of the lobes. 

The principle is to take as small a portion of the 
mosquito as is possible, with the certainty that the 
portion contains both salivary glands. 

The chitinous portion of this remnant, which includes 
the bases of two pairs of legs, is sufficient to conceal the 
glands ; it must therefore be broken up with the points 
of the needles into four or five fragments, which should 
be about a quarter of an inch from each other. These 
fragments are of course still in the saline solution. 

A cover-glass should be placed over the whole series 
of fragments and each portion should be compressed in 
turn with the point of the needle. In the great majority 
of instances the salivary glands will be squeezed out from 
under the portions of the exoskeleton. It is common to 
find a small portion of one lobe still covered by the 
exoskeleton. 

Another method is to squeeze the contents of the 
thorax out towards the head end of the thorax, after 
cutting off the head, when the salivary glands may be 
shot out uninjured. This method is uncertain, and some 
of the lobes are often damaged, but when successful the 
glands are sometimes better displayed and have less 
surrounding tissues than the other method (fig. no). 

The first method recommended here has the very 
decided disadvantage that the salivary glands are not 
isolated but surrounded by other tissues. For per- 
manent preparations it is not a good method, as other 
tissues are present. The glands do not dry quickly and 
become fixed to the slide as isolated glands do. 

For mere examination it is satisfactory, but when 
confidence has been acquired by this method, if per- 
manent preparations are desired the salivary glands must 
be isolated. 

In the best method for isolation of the glands the 
head is not cut off, but the back of the thorax is separated 






SALIVARY GLANDS 



237 



by a longitudinal incision. A sharp edge, such as is 
provided by a surgical needle or cataract knife, is better 
than an ordinary needle. A second incision at right 
angles to the first is made at the level of the second 
pair of legs. The head is now transfixed as near the 
neck as possible with one needle and the remnant of the 
thorax fixed with another. On pulling on the head 
the salivary glands will be pulled out of their bed in the 
thorax and can be seen attached to the head. Micro- 
scopic examination under a low power objective is 
necessary at this stage. A final cut will separate the 
head, and the salivary glands are left isolated (fig. in). 
It is not uncommon to find that the ends of some of the 
lobes have been left behind in the thorax or the glands 
otherwise damaged, but perfect specimens can be obtained 
in this way. 




FIG. no. 



The excess of salt solution should be removed with 
blotting-paper, the specimen air-dried, fixed in alcohol, 
and stained on the slide. 

To show the relation of these parts and other structures 
in the mosquito serial sections are requisite. The mos- 
quito can be cut imbedded either in celloidin or in 
paraffin wax. 

To show structure, young mosquitoes which have only 
been hatched for a few hours are best, and they should 
be placed alive in spirit and hardened in absolute alcohol. 

With older mosquitoes it is better to puncture the 
thorax and abdomen with the point of a fine sharp knife 
or needle, so as to facilitate the entrance of the paraffin 
or celloidin. 



238 SECTIONS OF MOSQUITOES 

To CUT AND STAIN SECTIONS OF MOSQUITOES. 
According to Dr. Low, the best method is to kill the 
mosquitoes by dropping them into 60 per cent, alcohol 
alive, so that some spirit may be drawn into the interior. 
Keep them five days in this spirit. Remove the wings 
and legs from the mosquito and place the trunk in 95 
per cent, alcohol for twenty-four hours, then in absolute 
alcohol for twenty-four hours, then in alcohol and ether 
equal parts twenty-four hours. After this thin celloidin 
one day, thick celloidin one day. Mount on blocks, 





FIG. in. 

hardening thejcelloidin on them in 60 per cent, spirit ; 
then cut serial sections, keeping the sections in 60 per 
cent, spirit. For staining float out in water. Stain in 
watch glasses with haemalum or haematoxylin for five to 
ten minutes so as to overstain decidedly. Decolourise 
with i per cent hydrochloric acid in 70 per cent, alcohol 
till, when replaced in water, only a faint violet colour is 
retained by the mosquito. Replace in 60 per cent, spirit, 
then in 95 per cent., and from that to carbol-xylol 25 per 



ECTIONS OF MOSQUITOES 

cent., till the section appears perfectly clear and trans- 
parent. Transfer to slide, press firmly with clean filter 
paper, and mount in xylol balsam. 

For mosquitoes celloidin is to be preferred, particularly 
for the demonstration of filaria in situ. For structure, 
good results can also be obtained with paraffin sections. 
For this purpose recently hatched mosquitoes are the 
best, and they should be placed alive in the spirit, passed 
through the usual processes, imbedded in paraffin and 
serial sections cut. These small sections are easily de- 
tached from the slide. The method recommended by 
Annett and Button to prevent this is to lay the paraffin 
section on a thin layer of two parts of liquid glucose and 
one part of a thick syrup of pure dextrin, spread on a slide 
and kept in the hot incubator till the glucose mixture has 
dried hard. The paraffin is then removed by xylol and 
alcohol, and a solution of photoxylin is poured over the 
slide so as to form a film over the sections. This is 
allowed to set till the edges of the photoxylin film crinkle. 
On placing the slide in water the film comes away with 
the sections, which can then be stained in the usual way. 
Carbol-xylol must be used for clearing. 

In dissections the points to be observed are as follows : 
At the commencement of the oesophagus are three 
diverticula, of which one is much larger than the others. 
These diverticula usually contain air and sometimes food. 
They vary greatly in size. They are often pulled out 
of the thorax with the oesophagus, but to show them 
satisfactorily it is necessary to tear off the back of the 
thorax and break through the upper segments of the 
abdomen before exercising traction on the oesophagus. 
Bacteria in large numbers are found in these diverticula. 
The stomach is seen as a clear translucent expansion 
of the oesophagus. The cells lining the intestine appear 
to be polygonal, and the outlines can be clearly made 
out by using central light only. 

From the lower end, just before the junction with the 
hind gut, are seen the five Malpighian tubes, which are 



240 APPEARANCES 

much more opaque and are lined by large nucleated 
cells, and these cells contain granules or droplets of 
refracting oily nature. The lumen of these diverticula 
is difficult to make out. 

The continuation of the intestine is a tube which is 
not straight the hind gut or rectum. The cells vary in 
different parts of the tube and the variation differs in 
different species. Parasites of various kinds may be 
found. Examination with a high power, one-twelfth 
inch, is necessary, as the youngest forms of the malarial 
parasite cannot be readily seen with lower powers, and 
therefore familiarity with the normal appearance of the 
cells of the mosquito's stomach with this power is 
essential. 

Some confusion may be caused by the air tubes which 
ramify over the surface of the stomach. These appear 
to be black when seen by transmitted light, on account 
of the air they contain, but silvery white when seen 
by reflected light for the same reason. They can be 
recognised by the spiral thickening and their repeated 
branching. 

The cells seen in the stomach form the epithelial 
lining of that organ. They are detached by pressure on 
the stomach. By making a nick in the side of the 
stomach and alternately floating up the cover-glass with 
water and abstracting it on the other side of the cover- 
glass with blotting paper, the detached epithelium can 
be removed. By repeating this process several times 
the epithelial lining can not only be detached but in 
great part washed away. This measure may be required 
to wash out the contents of the stomach, particularly 
when they are dark and opaque with altered blood. 
It is also necessary for satisfactory staining of malaria 
parasites in the wall of the stomach. 

When the epithelium is washed out the stomach is 
reduced to a clear transparent bag. Longitudinal and 
transverse markings are often seen in this, and are indi- 
cations of the muscular bands. 



SALIVARY GLANDS 

In a stomach with the epithelium thus removed the 
developed malaria parasites can be stained by running 
the stains under the cover-glass. Picrocarmine gives 
fair results. When sufficiently stained the excess of stain 
can be washed out in the same manner, and finally 
Farrant's solution run in to displace the water. 

The stomach with the epithelium intact can also be 
stained in this manner, but more uniform staining is 
obtained by removing the cover-glass and allowing the 
stomach to dry on the slide. It can then be fixed in 
alcohol and stained with any basic stain, and after 
washing, dehydrated in alcohol, cleared with xylol, and 
mounted in Canada balsam. By this method the de- 
veloped malarial parasites are not well shown, as they will 
not stand drying or dehydration without great distortion. 

The salivary glands can be mounted in the same way, 
but in the Farrant's solution the cells wrinkle and poor 
results are obtained. Somewhat better results are ob- 
tained by removing extraneous tissues under the micro- 
scope and drying the slide in the air. The salivary 
glands can then be fixed, stained and mounted. In the 
fresh preparation the cells will be found to vary greatly, 
and they are often distended with retractile droplets. 
These may be so numerous as to fill many or all of the 
cells. The cells in the middle lobe are smaller and often 
differ in appearance from those in the lateral lobes. 
The main duct has cubical epithelium, which is continued 
for some distance down the lobules. In Anopheles the 
ends of the ducts in the lobules are dilated, whilst in most 
of the genera the ducts maintain the same calibre in 
their entire length. Occasionally a diverticulum is met 
with. This may be terminal, so that the lobule bifur- 
cates at the end, or it may be found in any other part. 
In Psorophom each gland has five lobes. 

At first there may be difficulty in finding these glands 

with a low power. The point to search for is the main 

duct and its trifurcation, as this is most readily seen 

even if the gland is embedded in muscular or other 

16 



242 GENITAL ORGANS 

tissues. To seethe character of the glandular cells in de- 
tail a ^ oil immersion must be used, and the diaphragm 
nearly closed, as the cells are very transparent. 

Sporozoa have been described in the ovaries of the 
mosquito, and we know that the piroplasma of cattle and 
dogs are transmitted by an infected tick to its offspring. 

In the present state of our knowledge it is therefore 
advisable to study the internal genital organs of the 
mosquito to some extent. These are usually removed 
with the stomach, but in part are hidden by the exo- 
skeleton of the last two or three segments of the mos- 
quito which remain still attached to the stomach. This 
exoskeleton can be teased off with a pair of needles; 
this can be done under a dissecting or other microscope 
with greater certainty of not at the same time injuring 
the genital organs. 

The female genital organs consist of a pair of ovaries 
opening into a common tube by the ovarian tubes. Into 
this common tube opens a mucous gland and also the 
spermathccce by a long narrow duct. The spermathecae 
are chitinous sacs and store up the spermatozoa received 
from the male. In this way by a single act of coitus by 
the male sufficient spermatozoa are stored up to enable 
many series of eggs to be fertilised. The number of 
spermathecae varies. In most genera there are three, but 
in the Anophelina there is only one and in Mansonia two. 

The male genital organs consist of two testicles joined 
by vasa deferentia to the ejaculatory duct formed by 
their union. Just before this junction each vas deferens 
is connected by a short tube with a sac-like receptacle 
the vesicula seminalis. 

The ejaculatory duct leads to a short fleshy penis 
situated between two internal claspers, internal gonapo- 
physes, and on each side of these are the large con- 
spicuous external claspers. 

The spermatozoa are rounded bodies with a flagellum. 
According to Giles they do not reach their full develop- 
ment in the male but in the spermathecae of the female. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

DEMONSTRATION OF DEVELOPMENT OF PARASITES IN 
MOSQUITOES. 

IN the freshly shed blood we saw that so-called sexual 
forms of the parasites of malaria gametocytes occurred 
which flagellated, and that forms differing little from 
these did not. However much the blood was altered by 
exposure to air, water, or in the mosquito's stomach, a 
proportion of non-flagellating bodies was always present- 
Both those that flagellate and those that do not are the 
gamete or sexual forms of the parasite. They are only 
easily recognised in autumno-aestival fever (sub-tertian), 
where they appear as the crescent bodies. It is simpler 
to follow the development in that species of parasite on 
this account, though the same changes occur in the other 
species of malaria. 

In the shed blood the crescents rapidly undergo changes 
if the blood be exposed to the air or moisture be added 
to it. If, on the other hand, air and moisture be excluded 
no change occurs in the crescents till they die and break 
up. To exclude the air a drop of vaseline is placed on 
the finger-tip, and the finger is pricked through it so that 
a drop of blood exudes into the centre of the oil. The 
oil and the contained drop of blood are transferred to 
a slide and the whole compressed under a cover-glass. 
The blood can be watched indefinitely and no change 
will be found to occur in the crescents till they 
disintegrate. 

If, however, a drop of blood is taken up on a cover- 
glass and exposed freely to air for two minutes and then 



244 CONJUGATION ZYGOTES 

placed on a slide, flagellating forms will rapidly appear 
and the crescents which do not flagellate the females 
will become round. 

Instead of freely exposing to air, admixture with water 
leads to the same result. This can be conveniently done 
by breathing on the slide before placing the cover and 
drop of blood on it. 

In short, a change in the environment of the sexual 
forms of the parasites which does not kill them leads to 
transformations due to their becoming sexually active. 
The same changes take place in the stomach of the 
mosquito with greater certainty and rapidity. 

To demonstrate satisfactorily these changes it is neces- 
sary to have a fairly good crescent infection. As has 
been already seen, the flagella from the males are actively 
motile, and these are the sexually active agents which 
enter the female and fertilise it. The process is called 
conjugation, and the result is an actively motile body, 
the travelling vermicule or ookinet. This travelling vermi- 
cule contains the pigment of the female crescent and is 
pointed at one end. 

In the stomach of a suitable mosquito several species 
of Anophelina for human parasites and Culex fatigans for 
proteosoma the vermicule passes out of the stomach 
cavity and becomes encysted in the stomach wall, form- 
ing the zygote. About thirty-six hours after feeding on 
an infected person these encysted zygotes will be found, 
and can be readily recognised by their pigment, which 
at this stage can be seen to be little changed from the 
pigment of the parasites from which they were derived. 
They are best seen in fresh specimens, but can be stained 
with any basic stain and seen after the epithelium has 
been removed from the stomach. The youngest forms 
are a little larger than a red blood corpuscle, but they 
rapidly increase in size, though at a rate varying with 
the temperature of the air. At about 80 F. they attain 
their full development in Myzomia funesta in twelve 
days. In some species of Anophelina, under the most 



ZYGOTES SPOROZOITES 245 

favourable conditions, the full development may take 
place in eight days. 

With this increase in size there is, of course, no increase 
in the pigment, as the zygote does not derive its nutriment 
from the blood. The pigment therefore is relatively 
scanty and absorption or solution of it must take place, 
as it frequently disappears completely. 

When fully grown the zygotes attain the size of 50 or 
60 IJL. The growth of the parasites is entirely outwards 
into the body cavity of the mosquito and away from 
the lumen of the intestinal tube, so that when mature 
they appear to be globular excrescences stuck on to the 
stomach. 

The contents of the zygote first divide into a series 
of segments called sporoblasts or blastophores. These 
blastophores soon lose their smooth outline and have an 
irregular shaggy appearance, which as they become more 
mature is seen to be due to the conversion of the outer 
part of the blastophore into a mass of filaments attached 
by one end to a small central residual mass. When quite 
mature these filaments break off and the cyst is then filled 
with these filaments, which are narrow bodies pointed at 
both ends and about 14 p in length. These bodies are 
known as sporozoites. Zygotoblasts, blasts exotospores, 
are names that have also been employed. 

In the fresh specimens they can be seen only in speci- 
mens immersed in saline solution or in weak i per cent, 
formalin solution. 

To observe them the freshly dissected stomach in one 
of these solutions is covered with a cover-glass, and by 
gently moving this cover-glass with a needle the stomach 
can usually be rolled over a little so that one of the 
mature zygotes is seen in profile projecting from the edge 
of the stomach (fig. in). Pressure with a needle on the 
cover-glass will now cause the rupture of the capsule of 
the zygotes and the contents, the blasts or sporozoites 
will be poured into the surrounding saline solution and 
can then be examined, If quite mature the contents 



246 



SPOROZOITES SALIVARY GLANDS 



will be entirely composed of sporozoites with a few small 
round masses of residual protoplasm, and in some cases 
a few small grains of pigment that have escaped absorp- 
tion. 

If riot quite mature some of the sporozoites will remain 
attached to the protoplasmic residue which formed the 
centre of the blastophore, forming a tangled mass round 
this centre. 




FIG. in. 



If empty cysts are found attached to the stomach 
detached sporozoites will be found in the fluids from 
any part of the body of the mosquito, and in some of 
the cells in the salivary glands they will be found in 
large numbers. 

Even with a low power the invaded cells in the salivary 
gland can usually be detected, as they present a granular 
appearance, and with a high power, oil immersion, the 
individual sporozoites can be made out unless they are 
too numerous. In such a case by pressure on the cover- 
glass the cells may be ruptured and sporozoites will be 
poured out in a manner similar to that in which they 
were poured out on rupture of a mature zygote. 

The cells in the middle lobe of the salivary glands are 



DEVELOPMENT OF FILARIA 247 

the ones which most frequently contain sporozoites, and 
usually cells in the middle lobes of both glands are 
invaded, but they may be found in cells in any of the 
lobes. Usually when scanty they are found in cells near 
the tips of the lobules. 

The demonstration of the development of Filaria 
nocturna in mosquitoes is even simpler. 

In the first twenty-four hours the filariae will be found 
living in the stomach and will be seen to be actively 
locomotive and to have cast their sheaths (ecdysis). 
Empty sheaths may also be found. Later the filariae 
will be found by teasing out the muscular masses, after 
the removal of the stomach, especially those of the 
thorax. Normal saline solution should be used, as pure 
water is apt to destroy the worms. 

Every stage in the development can be traced by 
dissecting daily one or two of a number of mosquitoes 
found to carry this filaria and fed at night on a person 
harbouring F. nocturna. 

F. nocturna has been shown to be carried by several 
species of mosquitoes belonging to several genera ; Culex 
fatigans, Mansonia uniformis and albipes, Cellia argyro- 
tarsis, Pyretophorus costalis, Myzorhynchus sinensis and 
barbirostris are amongst these. 

So far experiments with Stcgomyia fasciata have always 
failed. Occasionally the filariae make their way into the 
muscles and become encysted, but development is slow 
and incomplete and the larvae die and become absorbed 
without reaching the full larval development. Myzomyia 
fnncsta does not carry F. nocturna. 

Temperature has an important influence, and at low 
temperature, even with a suitable species of mosquito, 
no development takes place, and at intermediate tem- 
peratures development is much retarded. 

The points to observe in the larvae are the alterations 
in size and shape, the variations in motility, and the 
formation of intestinal and other structures. 

The larva as found at first in the muscles is exactly 



248 FILARIAL LARVA: 

like the embryo freshly escaped from the sheath. It 
soon becomes less actively motile and thicker. The ex- 
treme tail of the worm does not become thicker, so that 
we soon have a body like an elongated sausage with a 
small thin tail. This tail retains its mobility longer 
than any other part of the worm. The embryo increases 
in length, an alimentary canal with a terminal mouth 
and subterminal anus is formed, and the mobile tail 
disappears. At this stage only very sluggish occasional 
movements can be observed. The larva continues to 
elongate and again becomes actively motile. At this 
stage the alimentary canal is complete, and there are 
three small projections developed at the tip of the tail. 

The actively motile young filariae now escape from 
the muscles and pass towards the head of the mosquito 
and from there into the labium, where they can be found 
stretched out with their heads towards the tip of that 
organ. 

It will be remembered that the labium is the only 
part of the proboscis that does not penetrate the skin. 

In order that the young filarire may obtain access to 
man it is therefore necessary that they must escape from 
the labium and find their own way down the puncture 
made by the other elements of the proboscis. 

The most probable supposition as to the course taken 
is that the worms make their escape through the thin 
membrane stretched between the bases of the labella, 
known as Button's membrane. This membrane is the 
weakest part of the labium and is put on the stretch 
when the two labella are pushed against the skin and 
separated as the piercing elements of the proboscis are 
plunged into the skin. In the angle between the two 
diverging labellae the young worms would readily burst 
through this membrane and enter the hole in the skin 
made by the other parts of the proboscis, or they might 
be pushed into the wound as they escaped with the 
piercing elements of the proboscis. That the filariaj 
escape from the labium in this way was surmised by 



FILARIA IMMITIS 249 

Drs. Anriett and Button, and Bancroft has shown that 
by pressure on the proboscis of a mosquito in which 
these filaria larvae are present that the larvae are extruded 
between the labellae. 

The further development of the young filariae in man 
is not known. At the last stage of development in the 
mosquito the worms are not only small, i'6 mm., but 
sexually immature. 

Further growth and impregnation of the female must 
take place in man before embryos are again formed, 
appear in the blood, and are, in turn, taken up by 
mosquitoes. 

It is obvious, from the above, that a patient harbouring 
adult nlariae with embryos in his blood can not only 
cause infection of others, but continued and repeated 
reinfection of himself. 

Another filaria known to be carried by mosquitoes is 
I : . immitis of dogs. This is a sheathless filarial embryo, 
but instead of passing through the walls of the stomach 
of the mosquito it passes up the lumen of the Malpighian 
tubes and there it further develops and passes through 
its non-motile stage. When the larvae again become 
motile they burst through the Malpighian tubes and work 
their way through the tissues of the mosquito to the 
head and enter the proboscis just as the young F. ban- 
crofti does. 

The demonstration of the development of the filaria is 
best done with fresh specimens of infected mosquitoes by 
teasing them out on a slide in normal saline solution. 
The young worm in the proboscis can be demonstrated 
by breaking across the proboscis. The various changes 
in the motility of the embyro and young worm can only 
be demonstrated in the living state. 

Sections (vide sections of mosquitoes) are the best for 
permanent specimens, as the worms can then be seen in 
their proper position. 

Nothing is known of the mode of development of the 
other human filariae. Experiments with many species 



250 BACILLI IN MOSQUITOES AND LARVAE 

of mosquitoes have failed. Other blood-sucking arthro- 
pods may be the carriers or intermediate hosts, as is 
known to be the case with filariae of some of the lower 
animals. 

A large number of species of filariae have been described 
in birds. The intermediate hosts are unknown, and much 
information as to the possible methods of the propagation 
of filaria might be obtained by systematic experiments on 
some of these birds. 

Various protozoa, such as gregarines and sporozoa, have 
been found in mosquitoes or in their larvae. 

Bacilli swarm in the intestinal tubes of mosquitoes ; 
they are particularly abundant in the air sacs or diver- 
ticula from the upper end of the oesophagus. Yellow 
fever has been shown to be carried by mosquitoes 
(Stegomyia fasciata). The organism of the disease is not 
known, and though there is reason to believe that some 
development of the unknown organism takes place in the 
mosquito, nothing is known of the changes that must 
take place. 

Dengue Fever. It is stated that this disease is carried 
by mosquitoes, but the evidence is unsatisfactory. 

Mosquito larvae cannot be bred in sterile water but 
special colour-producing organisms can be introduced 
into the water in which the larvae breed and are swal- 
lowed by them. When pupation occurs the pupae can 
be transferred to many changes of sterile water so that as 
few organisms as possible are on the surface of the pupa. 

When the imago emerges in a sterilised vessel it will be 
found to contain some only of the organisms that were 
present in the water in which the larvae lived, and others 
are absent. 

From this it appears that bacteria imbibed by a larva 
can subsequently be distributed by the adult or imago. 

In this way Stegomyia fasciata is shown to distribute 
Bacillus pyocyaneus, but not B. prodigiosus or violaceous. 

An old observation of Ross on the development of 
certain gregarines in Stegomyia fasciata is an excellent 



GREGARINES IX MOSQUITOES 251 

instance of the manner in which protozoa may be 
acquired by the aquatic larva; and distributed by the 
adult. 

These gregarines are found in the intestines of the 
young larvae and pass up the Malpighian tubes. By the 
time the larvae are ready to pupate they have become 
encysted in the Malpighian tubes and the cysts are full 
of young gregarines. 

During pupation the cysts rupture and the gregarines 
are set free to pass into the stomach. 

When the imago emerges these gregarines are in the 
stomach of the mosquito and are passed with the first 
excrement deposited by the mosquito. 

The dissemination of protozoa and bacteria by insects 
which in the larval stage have such abundant oppor- 
tunities of acquiring them is worthy of very close investi- 
gation. 



252 



CHAPTER XIV. 
EGGS, LARVJE AND PUP^L OF MOSQUITOES. 

THE eggs of mosquitoes of different genera vary greatly. 
In most cases they are laid on the surface of water. A 
few species of mosquitoes will lay eggs in other situations. 
Some of these, whilst in captivity, can be induced to lay 
on many damp surfaces wet blotting paper, the cut 
surfaces of apples, potatoes, and the like. Culex dorsalis, 
and some, at least, of the Stegomyia, lay eggs in this 
manner. 

Most, if not all, of the species belonging to the re- 
stricted genus Culcx lay their eggs in masses or rafts. 
Other genera of the Culicina, and many of the <Ldeo- 
myince, form similar egg-rafts. Each individual egg has 
its long axis vertical to the surface of the water, or nearly 
so, and as the lower end is slightly the larger, the mass 
formed by the aggregation of these eggs rests with a 
convex surface downwards on the water and a concave 
surface upwards. The egg masses, when first laid, are 
white, but soon darken, usually to a black or dark brown 
colour, but in some species to a bright bronze. The 
individual eggs vary according to species. In all the 
upper end is plain, but the lower may be plain, spiked, 
or ornamented with a whorl. There is no definite oper- 
culum, that can be seen, in the unopened egg, but when 
the larva bursts through, the eggshell ruptures in a cir- 
cular manner round the broad end of the egg, and the 
lid thus formed is pushed aside by the larva. When the 
eggs hatch the raft breaks up. 






EGGS OF MOSQUITOES 253 

In Anophelina the eggs are quite different. They are 
never laid in rafts, but deposited in little groups on the 
surface of the water. After a time, when disturbed by 
superficial currents in the water or in the air, they become 
scattered and arranged in patterns, which vary according 
to the nature and proximity of the sides of the vessel, or 
to floating bodies, such as blades of grass, pieces of stick, 
&c. The eggs lie horizontally on the surface of the 
water and are irregularly spindle-shaped, with the upper 
surface flattened. They are covered with a thin reticu- 
lated membrane, which is closely adherent to the upper 
and under surfaces and at the pointed ends, but is thrown 
into loose folds at the sides so as to form a projecting 
ridge running a distance, varying according to species, 
towards both the pointed ends. This fold is strength- 
ened by transverse thickenings, and air is contained 
between the folds. The Anophelina egg, therefore, has 
on each side an air chamber, or float, attached which 
prevents the egg from sinking. If the egg does sink, or 
if, when it has become adherent to the sides of a vessel, 
it is submerged, it does not hatch, nor does it if once 
thoroughly dried. When the larva hatches the eggshell 
splits obliquely towards the thicker end, and pushing 
aside the cap thus formed the larva makes its escape. 

The eggs of Stegomyia, of some other genera of Culiciiuv, 
and of the Megarhinince, are also laid separately. They 
are oval eggs and are covered completely with a reti- 
culated membrane, or are bare. No large air cells are 
present, but at first there is air in some of the small reti- 
cular spaces. The egg may remain floating and hatch, 
but more frequently sink and hatch after remaining some 
hours, or even days, submerged. Such eggs are highly 
resistant, and will withstand prolonged desiccation, or 
complete immersion in water. 

This is most important from the point of view of 
prophylaxis. The eggs of Stegomyia fasciata may be 
deposited in shallow puddles at the end of a wet season, 
and if the puddle dries the eggs lie in the dried mud at the 



254 



EGGS OF MOSQUITOES 



bottom, and retain their vitality for months. With the 
onset of the next rains, when the puddle is re-formed, 
the larvae rapidly hatch out. The eggs of some of the 
mosquitoes, e.g., C. dorsalis, with similar thick shells, will 
retain their vitality all through the winter. 

The species of Mansonia most frequently observed 
rarely lay eggs in captivity. The eggs are oval, and pro- 
jecting from one end, have a long tube, terminating in a 
slightly expanded, trumpet-shaped opening. 




o 

X*^-"^ 




Fin. 112. a, Eggs of Culex ; b\ b", eggs of Anopheles ; c, egg of Stegomyia 
d, egg of Mansonia ; e, egg of Psorophora. 



The eggs of Psorophora are not unlike those of Stego- 
myia in shape, but are rather more pointed. According 
to Dr. W. N. Berkeley they are "prickly." 

Eggs are best obtained by collecting adult female 
mosquitoes and keeping them in a small cylindrical 
vessel, a wide-necked 4-02. bottle is suitable, containing 
water. It is well to have some twigs or fragments of 
grass floating on the water on which the mosquitoes may 
rest. The top of the vessel should be covered with mos- 



BREEDING FROM LARVAE 255 

quito netting to allow air to have free access. They 
should be fed on blood as often as they will feed. 

Larvae can be obtained by keeping the eggs in water at 
at suitable temperature. When first hatched they are 
small and quite white, but they soon increase in size, and 
either in part or as a whole change colour. 

They are voracious and require abundance of food, 
but with many species of mosquitoes, particularly with 
some of the Anophelines, the water must not be putrid or 
peaty. 

A white, flat dish, such as a half-plate or full-plate 
photographic tray, is as good a breeding place as any. 
Some earth should be placed at the bottom, and it is 
well to place some grass with the roots and earth attached 
in two or three places, both along the edge and also 
towards the middle, so as to form at least one islet. The 
dish should be filled so that there is about three-quarters 
of an inch depth of water, and these dishes are best 
prepared a few days before the larvae are placed in them. 
A little of the " green slime " or other algae found growing 
in fresh water should be added and a few grains of dry 
rice may be scattered about the bottom. Abundant food 
will thus be supplied, but the water must not be over- 
stocked with vegetation, as if this decomposes the water 
will be unsuited to many larvae. Great care must be taken 
that none of the natural enemies of mosquito larvae are 
introduced into the water. Those most frequently in- 
troduced are the larvae of Agrionidce, one of the groups of 
the dragon-flies. These are short, squat, six-legged larvae 
with the characteristic protrusible prehensile mask. They 
are often introduced with mud or in muddy water and 
are most destructive to other larvae. Cannibal culicid 
larvae should be looked for, as they also are very destruc- 
tive. They can be recognised by the stiff row of curved 
bristles instead of fine hairs on each side of the mouth. 

These dishes must not be kept in the dark, must be 
well lighted, and are best exposed for short periods to 
direct sunlight if there is sufficient grass growing to 



2 5 6 



LARV,E 



provide shelter for the larvae. They must not be left 
long enough in the sunlight to warm the water. 

When pupae have formed they must not be exposed 
at all to direct sunlight. 

The water must not be overstocked with larvae, as 
they are all at times carnivorous. The larvae should 




FIG. 113. 




FIG. 114. 

all be about the same age, but may be of different species. 
Some large larvae will destroy the young of both their 
own and other species. 

The tops of the dishes should be covered to prevent 
the entrance of dust, a plate of glass, or better, a larger 
glass dish inverted over the dish containing the larvae, 
will suffice. 



COLLECTION OF SPECIMENS 257 

Larvae can either be raised from the eggs or caught 
from natural waters by scooping up the water in any 
receptacle. When large numbers of larvae are required 
any receptacle from a bucket downwards will do, but 
where larvae are scanty they are best caught by using 
a dipper. An ordinary white enamelled coffee-cup serves 
the purpose well, but in some situations a longer handle 
is better and this can be fitted on to the cup, or a soup 
ladle may be used. 

Some larvae are most numerous at the edges of pools 
or streams in the shady places. In using the dipper the 
open mouth should be turned towards the bank and 
plunged in inclined so that the water from the edge 
rushes in. The dipper should, as soon as the rush of 
water has ceased, be turned upright and removed from 
the pool. (Figs. 113 and 114.) It should be allowed 
to stand for a few minutes 4ill the mud has settled 
and then examined. A hand lens is useful as the very 
young larvae can easily be overlooked. 

In obtaining the specimens care must be taken not to 
disturb the water in any way before using the dipper, as 
larvae readily take alarm and dart to the bottom. 

In shallow pools and small puddles, larvae can be 
readily seen by looking rather obliquely at the undis- 
turbed surface of the water. When they occur in such 
situations they are usually numerous. In running water 
and in larger masses of water they can rarely be seen 
in this manner, and unless a dipper is used will be over- 
looked. In such situations it is not common to find 
them in large numbers in any small surface of water, 
and consequently the dipper may have to be used fre- 
quently to demonstrate their presence. Though in any 
small area of water examined they may be scanty the 
total areas of this class of breeding place is so great 
that these places are of the highest practical importance. 

Some species of mosquitoes are more easily found as 
larvae because the adults do not frequent human habi- 
tations. During certain seasons, particularly cold and 



258 BREEDING PLACES 

dry seasons, larvae of all species will be found more 
readily than adults. 

In making collections of mosquitoes it is well both 
to breed from adults collected in as many different 
classes of place, houses, cattle-sheds, grass and forest, 
as possible, and also to rear adults from larvae or eggs 
found in still and running waters, natural pools, small 
and large, and also in artificial collections of water. 

No water, even that in cess-pits, is too foul for some 
species, whilst others will not breed in water that Euro- 
peans consider fit to drink. 

The pupae are found in the same situations as the 
larvae ; they appear as small black objects which are 
usually motionless unless disturbed. 

The larvae and pupae can be transferred from the 
dipper to a wide-mouthed bottle for carriage. Both 
larvae and pupae are easily destroyed if the water is kept 
in motion, as they do not rest on the surface sufficiently 
long for proper respiration. If it is necessary to carry 
them for long distances it is well to make frequent halts 
every half hour to an hour and place the bottle contain- 
ing the larvae upright in a shady place for a quarter of 
an hour or so. 

The character of the breeding place must be carefully 
noted. The special points are : (i) Whether it is fresh, 
or foul, or brackish. (2) If the water is still or in motion. 
(3) Vegetation in the water. (4) Other larvae or animals 
present. Special attention should be paid to animals 
that may prey on the mosquito larvae, especially fish, 
coleopterous and neuropterous larvae, &c. (5) Any 
special features either in the natural or artificial receptacle 
for the water. (6) Exposure to light, wind, &c., of the 
surface of the water. Many of the Stcgomyia larvae will 
thrive in darkness. dLdeomyina and Megarhinine larvae 
often have peculiar breeding places, such as the cups of 
pitcher plants, the hollows in trees, or the interior of 
bamboo joints or crab-holes. Some species will only be 
found in one kind of breeding place. 



AXATOMY OF LARVAE 259 

Duration of larval stage varies with the amount of 
food, temperature, and the species of the mosquito. 
Under the best conditions of food and temperature, with 
many mosquitoes the larval stage is seven or eight days, 
but may be indefinitely retarded by cold or insufficient 
food. Other mosquitoes, under the most favourable 
conditions, require several weeks for their development. 
Of these, Megarhinine larvae are instances. The pupal 
stage is not affected by the food supply, as the pupa does 
not require food. It is prolonged by a low temperature. 
The pupal stage is about two days with most species, but 
with Megarhinine pupa and a few others is six days. 

Anatomy of Lcinw and Pupa. The larvae vary in colour 
in different species, but even in the same species varia- 
tions occur according to the degree of exposure to light 
and the nature of the food. In the more transparent 
larvae the colour of the intestinal contents, green or 
brown, is more obvious than that of the larva itself. 

The larvae of the Culicidce conform to a general type. 
The head is joined to the thorax by a narrow neck. In 
the head are a pair of compound eyes and two simple eyes 
or ocelli. There are a pair of short antennae and a mouth 
composed of an upper lip, a pair of mandibles, a pair of 
maxillae, and a lower lip or labial plate. 

The thorax is composed of three fused segments. There 
are no ambulatory legs, but sensitive and balancing hairs 
are abundantly supplied. 

The abdomen is long, and composed of nine segments. 
The last is smaller, and inclined at an oblique angle down- 
wards. At the termination of this segment is the opening 
of the anus, surrounded by four retractile papillae, prob- 
ably respiratory in function anal gills or branchiae. 

On the upper surface of the eighth segment are the 
spiracles or openings of the two respiratory tubes, which 
run the whole length of the body, and supply the larvae 
with air. 

The openings of these tubes are direct in theAnopheliiui, 
which can therefore be described as asyphonate. In the 



20O ANATOMY OF 

other subfamilies the tubes are continued into a conical 
tube jointed on to the upper surface of the eighth segment, 
and at the apex of this tube are the external openings of 
the respiratory tubes. This projection is known as the 
respiratory syphon, and the larvae of all the Cnlicidce, except 
the Anophelina, are therefore said to be syphonatc. 

The head is composed of many chitinous plates, which 
are thicker and darker on the dorsal surface. 

The opening of the mouth is directed slightly down- 
wards in all, and almost directly downwards in many. 

The upper lip consists of a middle portion or palate 
supported on either side by lateral plates covered with 
bristles. 

The pair of mandibles are placed beneath the upper 
lip, and are usually toothed. The movements are lateral. 

The pair of maxillae are below and behind the man- 
dibles ; their movements are obliquely upwards and 
inwards. 

The inferior lip, or labium, is a triangular plate, usually 
very dark in colour, and with a more or less serrated edge. 

On each side of the mouth are chitinous plates attached 
to the mandibles and maxillae, and from these arise the 
" brushes " or masses of long, stiff hairs, fine in most of 
the Culicidce, but thick and curved in the larvivorous 
larvae, which are so arranged that they can be moved 
laterally and folded completely over the mouth or thrown 
back so as to form a very oblique angle with each other. 
These brushes in life are in constant movement, and cause 
a sufficient current in the water to wash solid suspended 
particles to the open mouth of the larva. 

There are great variations in the different parts which 
are of use in distinguishing larvae of one mosquito from 
those of another. Much attention has been paid to the 
shape of the inferior lip plate, which is a conspicuous 
object, and varies in closely related species. 

The antennae are articulated to the head. They move 
slightly. They are not truly jointed, but in some there 
is an abrupt variation in thickness, probably indicating a 



ANATOMY OF LARVAL 



26l 



joint. They vary in length and in the number and 
arrangement of the hairs and spines ornamenting them. 
They are of value in differentiating the larvae of dif- 
ferent species. 

The head is very mobile in some species, and in the 
Anophelines so much so, that they can turn the ventral 
surface upwards and feed in that position. As the ventral 
surface is light, and the dorsal black, a larva may at one 
moment appear to have a dark head, and at the next a 
light one. 

The thorax is well supplied with simple or compound 
hairs. The longer and more conspicuous are arranged 
on each side. In a few species there are in addition 
strong curved spines slightly below the lateral hairs. One 
or two pairs of these spines may be present. 

On the abdomen are also hairs, varying greatly in genera 
and species. In the Anophelines are peculiar palmate 
hairs, the shape of which vary in different species. 

In many of the jEdeomyina compound hairs are very 
numerous. In the Stegomyia hairs are scanty and in- 
conspicuous. 

The shape of the respiratory syphon attached to the 
eighth segment in all but the Anophelines is of great 
importance. It varies in length, so much so, that attempts 
have been made to classify the Culicidce on the "syphonic 
index," or the relative length of the syphon. Generally 
speaking, all the Megarhina, all larvivorous larvae, Stego- 
m\ia and Desvoidea, as well as some of the ALdeomyina, 
such as Ui'anotccnia and many other genera, have short 
respiratory syphons. Most of the Culex in the restricted 
sense, and many others of the Culicina and ALdeomyina 
have long respiratory syphons. A re-classification on the 
basis of the syphonic index would break up the present 
classifications founded on adult characters, whether those 
adult characters were on the character of the palps, pro- 
boscis, or scales. It would be less convenient than the 
classification founded on adult characteristics. 

The openings of the respiratory tubes at the end of the 



262 PUP^E 

syphon are often guarded by mobile flaps, and hairs and 
spines are present on the syphons in most species. In 
some of the sEdeomyina these are very numerous. 

The alimentary system of the larva consists of a tube, 
apparently structureless and of uniform calibre, running 
from the mouth to the anus. In the more fully grown 
specimens this tube is seen to be contained inside the true 
intestine, which is arranged as in the adult. In the space 
between is clear fluid not containing any food particles. 
The Malpighian tubes and other appendages of the 
alimentary canal of the adult are present at this stage. 

The intestinal system, including the inner tube con- 
taining the food, and the outer tube and appendages, can 
be pulled out of the larval case in a manner similar to 
that by which the intestine is removed from the adult, 
but it is more easily done by extraction through the 
anterior part of the larva than from the tail. 

The space between the temporary and permanent 
intestine may contain gregarines and numerous micro- 
organisms, and it is to this space that attention should be 
paid in investigating the conveyance of parasites acquired 
by larvae. 

The respiratory system of the larva is comparatively 
simple. At the end of the respiratory syphon, if there 
be one, or from the dorsal surface of the eighth abdominal 
segment, are the openings leading into the two main 
tracheae, which pass up the abdomen, giving off branches 
to each segment and inosculating freely in the thorax. 
They send off branches to the various parts here and to 
the head. 

The Pupa. When the larva has reached its full stage 
of development the thorax becomes swollen, casts its 
cuticle with all the appendages, and becomes a pupa. 
The organs are already formed. 

The pupa differs most materially from the larva in 
that there is no longer a mouth opening externally, 
and the respiration is conducted through two tubular 
openings arising on each side of the compound head 






EGGS, LARV.*: AND PUP^E 263 

and thorax. The change in appearance is great, the. 
head and thorax are fused, and the only external append- 
ages are the two respiratory tubes. The abdomen is 
still segmented and is usually curved, so that the termina- 
tion is under the compound thorax. It terminates in 
two large fins. 

The pupal stage is a comparatively short one. There 
is no possibility of feeding and the pupa remains quiet, 
breathing through the respiratory tubes unless disturbed, 
whilst the more complete development of the imago 
takes place within its sheath. The duration of the pupal 
stage is affected by the temperature, but is usually from 
two to five days. The pupa of some species will not 
remain alive longer than a few days if the conditions are 
not favourable for development. 

In the examination of eggs, larvae and pupae, the points 
to be observed are as follows : 

Eggs. (i) The size, shape, colour. (2) The manner 
in which the eggs are arranged and where deposited. 
(3) The character of any thickenings or other external 
markings. (4) The length of time required under stated 
conditions, temperature and so on, between the deposi- 
tion of the eggs and the hatching of the larvae, and any 
variations noted with variations of conditions. (5) The 
effect of desiccation, immersion and temperature on the 
vitality of the eggs. 

Larva. In the larva the relative sizes and shapes of 
the different divisions head, thorax and abdomen. The 
character of the head appendages, the antennae, mouth 
apparatus, &c. Any marked colouring. Much work has 
been done on the differences in the appendages of the 
head of Anophelina larvae, and it has been shown that the 
differences are so marked in their arrangement that many 
of the species can be distinguished as larvae. 

In the thorax the character of the lateral hairs and 
any characteristic markings must be noted. 

In the abdomen the points of greatest importance 
are the appendages on the eighth and ninth segments. 



264 

The presence or absence of a respiratory syphon attached 
to the eighth segment is one of the most important 
generic differences. Where present it varies in length 
and shape in different genera. In different species it 
varies in colour and in the distribution of colour so 
markedly that it is often easier to distinguish between 
different species by the character of the syphon than it 
is to distinguish between the adults. Varying positions 
of larvae are associated with the differences in length or 
the absence of the syphon. 

The arrangement of bristles and hairs on the eighth 
and ninth segments present marked differences in the 
different species. In Anophelina on the other segments, 
in addition to the lateral hairs there is on each side 
a row of stellate or palmate hairs. These are nearer 
the middle line than the simple bristles, and the stellate 
portion forms a kind of cup. This adheres to the surface 
film of the water and aids the larva in maintaining its 
horizontal position. 

Colouring of larvae is of less importance, as in some 
species the colour may vary from yellow to green, brown, 
or even black. In others variations are comparatively 
small, these are usually dark under all circumstances. 

In noting the colour any conspicuous marking must 
be mentioned, the conditions under which the larvae was 
grown, and whether or not change of conditions, such 
as greater light, different food, &c., results in a change 
of colour. 

The nature of the food can be determined by the 
examination of the contents of the intestine, or by watch- 
ing the larvae feed in water containing a mixture of 
natural foods. It will be found to vary. The kind of 
food on which they thrive best should be noted. 

The duration of the larval stage under as many diverse 
conditions as possible, including exposure to light, heat, 
and cold, and any observations as to the conditions pre- 
disposing to death or leading to an undue proportion of 
males in the imagines, should be noted. 



BREEDING PLACES 265 

The natural enemies of the mosquito larvae, fish, larvae 
of other insects, &c., are of great importance. Where 
possible the species should be determined. If the larva? 
are caught as larvae and not reared from eggs particular 
care should be taken to observe the nature of the places 
in which the larvae were found. 

Breeding places of the known carriers of disease, 
such as Anophelines, Stegoinyia and Culex, require very 
detailed consideration. It is convenient to divide these 
into permanent waters such as will withstand a con- 
siderable period of rainless weather, and temporary waters, 
which require frequent renewal. They may be natural 
or artificial. Of permanent waters, rivers, large ponds 
and the edges of lakes under certain conditions are of 
the utmost importance. In such situations the larvae 
are usually widely scattered, and without the repeated 
routine use of a dipper such places, often the most im- 
portant, are usually overlooked. 

The conditions favourable are the growth of grasses, 
reeds or sedges in the water. These growths check the 
stream, provide food, and protect to some extent the 
larvae from their natural enemies. 

There are two main classes of growths important : 

(1) Those growing from the bed of the river or lake, 
in the shallows and on shelving banks. The height of 
the water greatly affects the area suitable. The taller 
and thicker sedges are not so suitable as the lower and 
thinner ones, probably on account of the absence of 
light and too great stagnation of the water (fig. 115). 

(2) Those growing from floating masses of roots and 
attached to the earth only near the edge of the river. 
The raft formed by the closely interlaced roots is sub- 
merged by the weight of the grass growing in the air, and 
in the shallow water lying above this raft of roots Ano- 
phelinc larvae breed freely. No alteration in the level of 
the water makes any material difference to this, a com. 
mon class of breeding place (fig. 116). In flood times 
islets of this floating grass are torn off and carried down 



266 



BREEDING PLACES 



the stream, carrying with them larvae, and in this manner 
they may be carried long distances down the river. It 
is not improbable that the cutting of the sudd in rivers 
may result in larvae of mosquitoes being carried for long 
distances down the river and thus extending the area of 
distribution of these mosquitoes, but according to Balfour 
no such result seems to have taken place on the Nile. 

Rivers are dangerous when variations in level are not 
too great or too rapid. Such streams as have a constant 




FIG. 115. 



(MlJlM^ ^~ 



FIG. 116. 



supply independent directly of the rainfall are particu- 
larly dangerous. Such sources are the melting of the 
snow from snow-covered mountains and the effluents of 
large lakes. 

Springs which often arise on the slopes of hills are other 
important permanent breeding places. These usually 
commence as a small pool with a surrounding swampy 
area. The grasses round are often of different species or 
grow more luxuriantly than elsewhere, and these places 
can therefore usually be identified with ease. 

The streams arising from such springs are not of much 



BREEDING PLACES 267 

importance during heavy rains, but when the water 
supply is diminished, wherever the streams spread into 
swampy areas, or form pools fringed with vegetation, or 
in backwaters, larvae are usually to be found with the aid 
of the dipper. In some of these situations they are carried 
by the stream from the springs or other breeding places. 
In others the eggs may be deposited and hatch in the 
place in which the larvae are found. Amongst the easiest 
places to find larvae are the pools left in the bed of such 
a stream when the spring commences to dry up, par- 
ticularly if a small current connects the pools and keeps 
the water fresh. Some springs will dry up after a month's 
dry weather, others in three or four months, but some 
are usually permanent though the water may be scanty 
from one wet season to another. 

Swamps unless kept supplied by fresh water are not 
suitable breeding places for some species. For other 
species they are suitable provided the vegetation is not 
too rank. 

A high-level subsoil water may lead to formation of 
natural permanent pools. On the sandy shores of great 
lakes the sand is usually thrown up into a ridge with a 
hollow behind it, and in this hollow as long as the lake 
level is high water will be present and forms a suitable 
breeding place. As the lake level reaches its greatest 
height at the end of the wet season and very slowly 
falls in the dry season, these pools may persist in the 
vicinity of such lakes for some months after the rains 
have ceased. 

Temporary breeding places are of many different classes, 
Almost any hollow or hole that will contain water is a 
suitable breeding place during continuous rains. If the 
rain be intermittent only such places as can retain water 
during the periods of intermission are suitable. Such 
places require a frequent and heavy rainfall and an im- 
pervious soil, and are not often found except under these 
conditions. The " Anopheles pool" most often described 
belongs to this class and is exceptional in many places 
where Anophelina are abundant. 



268 ARTIFICIAL BREEDING PLACES 

A place that is frequently flushed is not a suitable 
breeding ground, but irrigation trenches or natural 
hollows are good breeding places for some species if the 
area of the trenches is such that the water supplying it is 
insufficient to flush it in its whole extent. 

Artificial Breeding Places. Borrow pits at the sides of 
railway embankments, the trenches so often made in 
the course of road-making, and hollows or furrows made 
in native or other gardens, are common breeding places 
of Anophelines and some other mosquitoes. A high level 
of the subsoil water is necessary for these places to be of 
importance. 

Irrigation systems where the water supply is con- 
tinuous but insufficient to flush are important places. In 
any case, even with a well-designed system, if the source 
of the water be from a natural breeding place larvae will 
be conveyed all over the irrigation system. 

Instances occur in which larva- are conveyed for over 
a mile by such a trench from a natural permanent breed- 
ing place to a European settlement. 

Obstructions in the course of a stream, such as Irish 
crossings, dams, &c., may convert an inferior natural 
breeding ground into an excellent one. 

Badly graded gutters, broken bottles, water-butts, empty 
tins and any artificial receptacle that will hold water are 
preferential breeding places for some species of mos- 
quitoes, particularly those belonging to the genus 
Stegomyia. 

Wells in many places do not seem to be breeding 
places, but in other places they certainly are. 

On the whole, artificial breeding places are usually the 
work of Europeans, and the worker in the Tropics has 
rarely to go beyond his own grounds to find larvae of 
several species of mosquitoes. 

Too little attention has been paid to the breeding places 
of different species. We know that as great differences 
occur in the preferential breeding places of different 
species as of different genera, but little exact work has 
been done on the subject. 



CARRIAGE OF MOSQUITOES 



269 



For exact descriptions of the larvae of one species which 
might serve as an example the reader is referred to the 
articles on Anopheles maculipennis, by Nuttall and others, 
in the first volume of the Journal of Hygiene. 

The pupce differ less from each other than the larvae, 
and many insects form pupae that are not unlike those of 
the Culicidce. The greatest differences are to be observed 
in the respiratory tubes. In all the Culicidce they are 
simple tubes with one opening. In the Anopheles the 
opening of the tube is a wide, expanded, trumpet-shaped 
one ; in the Culex the opening is more of a slit and the 
termination is little expanded. In Mansonia, according 
to Dr. Low, the tubes are very long and slightly bent 
forward. In the different species there are variations in 
the size of the pupa and in the colour. The majority are, 
after exposure to light, brown or black, though when first 
formed they are yellow. A few are green, though most of 
these become dark before maturity. 

To hatch out the pupae all that is required is that they 
should not be disturbed and that they should be kept 
in clean water. No food is needed. They should be 
kept in a half light. 

Carriage of Mosquitoes. Mosquitoes may be carried 
in any stage of their existence. As eggs they are not 
very easy to carry, as those that float are often washed 
on to the sides of the vessel and there are dried and 
killed. Eggs like those of Stegomyia, which sink and 
are not injured by immersion, are easily carried, and it 
is probably owing to this that these mosquitoes or their 
larvae are so often found on board ship. 

The carriage of larvae we have already dealt with. 
For the development of many species light is a necessity, 
and consequently such species, including most of the 
Auophelince, are not carried far by the sea, as most of 
the fresh water is necessarily in closed casks or other dark 
receptacles. 

The adult mosquitoes must be carefully carried as 
they are easily injured by rough handling or bruising. 



270 



CARRIAGE OF MOSQUITOES 



On the whole glass vessels should be avoided because 
of the hard surface of the glass. Mosquitoes cannot 
hold on to it. If grass or other substances be placed 
in the glass vessel water of condensation is often de- 
posited on the glass and the mosquitoes adhere by the 
wings to this wet surface and speedily die. 

If glass vessels, test tubes, &c., are used, the mosquitoes 
must be carried very carefully, and no water be placed 




FIG. 117. 

in the vessel. Jungle mosquitoes will be killed by ex- 
posure to dry air, and with them the plug of cotton-wool 
should be kept wet. 

A light cage covered with mosquito netting is as good 
an arrangement as any, though at a pinch a small box 
covered with netting on the open side will work satis- 
factorily. 

The box designed by Dr. Sambon and containing four 



MOSQUITO CAGES 



271 



compartments, each containing a cylindrical wire cage 
covered with netting, is an excellent one (fig. 117). It 
was in such cages that infected mosquitoes were sent 
from Italy to the London School of Tropical Medicine 
for the well-known infection experiments, which resulted 
in the practical demonstration that mosquitoes infected 
with the malaria parasite could infect men in a country 
where there was no other possibility of acquiring an 
infection. 









FIG. 118. 

A simple cage can be made by having a portable wire 
cage that can be folded flat, and bags of mosquito netting 
which are pulled over the framework. The open end is 
then tied in a knot (fig. 118). 

Adult mosquitoes can be kept in test tubes or wide- 
necked bottles covered with fine gauze or mosquito 
netting. A little water should be placed at the bottom 
and some resting place, such as a piece of stick, blade of 
grass, or folded card placed above the water. 

Many mosquitoes will feed readily through the netting, 
others will not, though they feed readily in a larger space. 

Mosquitoes thrive better if kept in a larger space. 
The box slightly modified from Dr. Sambon's cage is 
very convenient for this purpose. The front is corn- 



2/2 



MOSQUITO CAGES 



posed of glass in two pieces for convenience in packing, 
while the ends are of fine wire gauze to allow the entrance 
of air. The hole in the centre of this gauze is covered 
by cotton sleeves. These are convenient for the intro- 
duction of an arm for feeding experiments. Through 
these holes the hand and test tube can be introduced 
when we wish to catch a mosquito. The pieces of glass 
forming the face of the box slide in a groove and can 
be removed when required (fig. 119). 




FIG. 119. 

Ripe fruit, such as apples, dates and bananas, serves as 
food for mosquitoes, but some will not lay eggs unless 
supplied with blood. As substitutes for fruit, sugar, 
syrups or jams will serve. Some species, Sttgomyia for 
example, are easy to keep in captivity and can be kept 
alive for months ; others will die in a few days. 

Ants of many kinds are very destructive to mosquitoes, 
particularly to those confined in small spaces. To avoid 
this the mosquito cage should be placed on legs, each of 
which rests in a small tin containing kerosene. 



273 



CHAPTER XV. 

FLEAS, LICE AND BED-BUGS. 

IN view of the increasing evidence in favour of the 
hypothesis that rats and their parasitic insects play an 
important part in the dissemination of plague, it is con- 
sidered desirable to include here some notes on fleas that 
may aid the worker in recognising the more common 
species. 

It has long been known that fleas may serve as the 
intermediate hosts of certain parasites. The cysticercus 
stage of Dipylidium caninum is passed in the dog-flea, 
Ctenocephalus serraticeps, as well as in the dog-louse, and 
healthy rats have been infected with Trypanosoma lewisi 
by allowing fleas taken from infected rats to feed upon 
them. The work of the Indian Plague Commission, as 
well as observations elsewhere, give ground for thinking 
that fleas are the carriers of the Bacillus pestis from rats 
to man. 

Fleas are usually included in the order Diptera as a 
sub-order, the Aphaniptera (vide p. 162). They differ 
from most other dipterous insects not only in the absence 
of wings, but also in that the three thoracic segments 
are distinct from one another and that, beyond carrying 
legs, these segments differ but little from the abdominal 
segments. The antennae also differ from those found in 
other Diptera. 

Capture and Examination of Fleas. To collect fleas 

from rats, mice, &c., it is best to confine the animal in 

a vessel at the bottom of which is a piece of cotton-wool 

soaked in chloroform. The fleas are killed more quickly 

18 



274 



FLEAS 



than the host, and may be picked from among the hairs 
or from the bottom of the vessel. If it is required to 
examine the internal structure this method is not very 
satisfactory as the fleas are frequently found filled with 
blood, and this obscures details. A preferable method is 
to capture them alive and keep them in a test-tube until 
they die of starvation. 

They may be examined directly, or if it is desired to- 
make permanent preparations they should be rendered 



Lpi Md K Md Lp 




-MX. p. 



FlG. I2O. Mouth-parts of a Flea (Vermipsylla alakurt, $}. (After 
Wagner.) h., Median lancet; //., labial palpi; md., mandibles; mx., 
maxillae ; mx.p., maxillary palpi. 



transparent and mounted. There are many methods for 
clearing and mounting small insects. Glycerine is a good 
clarifying medium but it takes a long time to penetrate. 
A method that gives good results is to fix in absolute 
alcohol, leaving them about one day to completely 
dehydrate, clear in xylol and mount in Canada balsam. 
The preparations should be examined not only by trans- 
mitted light but also by direct illumination to note the 
depressions, the direction of hairs, &c. 



EXTERNAL ANATOMY 275 

External Anatomy. Month-parts. These comprise a 
perforating and suctorial tube and two free pieces, the 
maxillae (fig. 120). 

The maxilla (mx.) have the form of a triangular 
pyramid, the apex of which projects downwards. Aris- 
ing from the base of each maxilla is the maxillary palp 
(tnx.p.). 

The piercing and suctorial apparatus is formed by the 
mandibles (md.) and the epipharynx (h.). The labial 
palps (l.p.) act as sheaths. 

The mandibles have the form of elongated styles with 
serrations along their distal two-thirds. Each contains 
on its mesial surface a salivary groove, which at the base 
widens out into a trough and towards the tip is nearly 
closed by the approximation of its edges forming a canal. 

The epipharynx is a pointed, pricking organ, grooved 
ventrally. By the approximation of the epipharynx and 
the two mandibles a channel is formed along which 
blood is sucked. 

The epipharynx makes a way through the skin, and 
the mandibles enlarge and lacerate the hole thus made, 
and convey into it the salivary secretion, and blood is 
aspirated from the wound along the channel formed by 
the epipharynx and mandibles. 

The antenna are contained in fossae at the back part 
of the head, behind the eyes when these are present, and 
are directed obliquely downwards and backwards. It 
is important not to mistake the maxillary palps for them. 
The antennae are three-jointed. 

The three thoracic segments known as pro-, meso-, 
and meta-thorax are freely movable on one another, 
and to each segment is attached a pair of legs. Each 
leg is described as composed of five pieces coxa, tro- 
chanter, femur, tibia and tarsus, the latter consisting 
of five segments, on the last of which (metatarsus) are 
attached two claws. The hairs on the metatarsus of the 
hindmost pair of legs are of value in classification. 

The abdomen is oval in shape and is composed of nine 



276 



FLEAS METAMORPHOSIS 



segments. The ninth segment is the smallest and is 
known as the pygidium. 

The males are recognised by their small size and by 
the presence of the coiled penis extending some distance 
inside the abdomen. 

Metamorphosis of Fleas. As in other Diptera, the 
metamorphosis in fleas is complete. The eggs are laid 
at all seasons of the year, but their development is more 
rapid in summer than in winter. The female does not 
attach the eggs to the skin or hairs of the host, but allows 
them to fall anywhere, whether it be on the host, on the 




FlG. 121. A, Head; B, thorax (i) prothorax or pronotum, (2) mesothorax 
or mesonotum, (3) metathorax or metanotum ; c, abdomen. 



earth, or elsewhere. The ova are small, ovoid or rounded 
in shape, and usually eight to twelve are laid. The larva 
is hatched out in four to six days in summer and in nine 
to twelve days in winter. 

The larvae (fig. 122, e), are footless maggots, whitish in 
colour, and have thirteen segments, of which the first is 
provided with a buccal apparatus and antennas. The 
buccal apparatus is formed for masticating. They are 
always found in dry places, dust, sand, or clothing. At 
the end of about ten days the larva ceases to feed and 
becomes immobile and forms about itself a small cocoon, 
to which dirt, sawdust, &c., adhere. In about eleven 



DISSECTION OF FLEAS 277 

days the larva is transformed into a nymph, which has 
three pairs of legs and resembles the perfect insect. 
These nymphs after a further period of about twelve 
days are transformed into perfect insects and come out 
of the cocoon. 

The whole process is accomplished in about a month 
in summer and six weeks in winter. 

Dissection. This is best carried out in normal saline 
solution, using needles with very fine points. With a 
simple lens the dissection is very difficult a stereoscopic 
microscope is almost an essential. 

The flea is transfixed through the head and held by the 
left-hand needle. The point of the right-hand needle is 
then inserted under the edge of the third or fourth abdo- 
minal segment and the chitinous covering peeled off. 
The internal organs float out in the salt solution and may 
be further separated. 

Internal Anatomy. The mouth is situated at the base of 
the bulb of the ventral portion of the epipharynx and 
forms the commencement of the alimentary canal. 

The pharynx extends from the mouth to the cesopha- 
geal commissure. It is aspiratory in function. 

There are two salivary glands, each consisting of two 
lobes, and they lie on each side of the anterior end of the 
stomach embedded in the fat body. 

At the junction of the pharynx and the stomach is an 
organ to which the name of " gizzard " has been applied. 
It is suggested that its function is to prevent regurgitation 
of fluids from the stomach. 

The stomach consists of a basement membrane, two 
oblique layers of muscle fibre and a lining layer of cubical 
cells. 

Classification. Fleas are divided into three families, 
Pulicidce, Sarcopsyllidce, and Vermipsyllidce, of which only 
the first two are of interest to us. 

Family PULICID^E. Generally speaking larger than 
unimpregnated Sarcopsyllidce. Head relatively small, 
rounded above and frequently armed with combs upon 




FIG. 122. a, Sarcopsylla pcnetrans ; b, Pulex irritans ; c, Clenocephalus serraticeps. 
</, Ceratophyllus ; e, Larva of Pttlex ; f, Pulex cheopis. 



CLASSIFICATION 279 

the sides, or along its inferior border. Labial palps 
always consisting of four segments. Thorax longer than 
in Sarcopsyllidce, in some genera having a comb of spines 
at the posterior border of the prothorax, sometimes also 
at that of the metathorax. In others there are combs at 
the posterior border on one or more of the segments of 
the abdomen. The females never become fixed in the 
tissues of the host, nor does the abdomen become greatly 
distended as in Sarcopsyllidce. 
Genera of family Pulicidce. 

A. Eye well developed. 

Comb along inferior border of head and 

another along posterior border of prothorax. . . Ctenocephalus. < 
Comb along posterior border of prothorax. 

No comb on the head Ceralophyllus. 

No combs Pulex. 

B. Eyes rudimentary or absent. 

Nearly always spines on each side of head. 
Always a comb on posterior border of pro- 
thorax. 

a. Comb on posterior border of metathorax 
and on one or more abdominal seg- 
ments. 

On metatarsus of hindmost pair of legs 
four pairs of lateral hairs and one pair 

of accessory hairs Ceratopsylla. 

$. No comb or posterior border of meta- 
thorax or on abdominal segments. 

(1) Hairs on metatarsus as in 

Ceratopsylla Ctenopsylla. 

(2) On metatarsus three pairs of 

lateral hairs; accessory hairs 

well developed Typhlopsylla. 

(3) On metatarsus four pairs of 

lateral hairs ; accessory hairs 

absent Neopsylla. 

y. Combs on some abdominal segments. 

Body covered with hairs and small 

spines Hystrichopsylla. 

Pulex chcopis. This flea has been described under 
various names, P. pallidus, P. murinus, &c. It is the 
commonest flea found on rats in warmer climates, and 



280 SARCOPSYLLID^: 

in some localities is the only flea. It has been found in 
Marseilles, Italy, Sydney, Philippines, India, Sudan, South 
Africa and South America. 

It is a non-pectinated flea, resembling the human flea, 
but differs from it, among other characteristics, irl the body 
being lighter in colour, yellowish instead of brownish, 
and in the position of the ocular hair, which is situated 
in front of the eye, while in P. irritans it is situated below 
the eye. 

Other rat-fleas are Ceratophyllus fasciatus, Ctenopsylla 
musculi, CtenocephahiS serraticeps, Hystrichopsylla talpce, 
as well as many less common species. 

Family SARCOPSYLLIM:. Body small, head relatively 
large, angular or rounded above, never armed with spines. 
Labial palps unsegmented. Thoracic segments small. 
Abdomen variable, more or less swollen in the fertilised 
female. Never any combs on thorax or abdomen. The 
fertilised female burrows into the skin of the host. 

This family comprises two genera, Sarcopsylla and 
Rhynchopsylla. 

The genus Sarcopsylla contains the important parasite, 
Sarcopsylla penetrans the Jigger or Chigoe. It is a small 
flea, the male measuring about i mm. in length, and the 
unimpregnated female about the same size. The general 
colour of the body is brownish. The head relatively to 
the body is large ; its upper surface slopes obliquely in 
front, and joins the lower surface at an acute angle. The 
eye is situated in the front part of the head at the border 
of the fossa of the antenna. 

The perforating and suctorial mouth-parts are well 
developed, but the maxillae are very small quadrilateral 
structures, only seen with difficulty. 

The three thoracic segments are very small. 

The males and unimpregnated females are parasitic on 
man only occasionally, for the purpose of sucking blood. 
The impregnated female, however, bores her way into 
the skin, particularly about the feet, and the abdomen of 
the insect undergoes great distension following the 



HEMIPTERA 281 

development of the eggs, the head and thorax remaining 
unchanged. 

The eggs develop on the soil, and the metamorphosis 
is similar to that which obtains in other fleas. 

The Jigger is widely distributed in the Tropics. Origin- 
ally found only in Central and South America, it was 
introduced into West Africa about 1872, and in a few 
years had become disseminated throughout the greater 
part of Africa. 

Another member of this genus, S. galiinacea, attacks 
fowls, particularly about the head, and causes great 
destruction among them. S. galiinacea does not bury 
itself in the skin so completely as does S. penetrans, nor 
does the abdomen become so greatly distended, as the 
eggs are laid one by one as they mature. 

Order HEMIPTERA. 

This order includes insects of very dissimilar charac- 
teristics. The rostrum is the feature by which they are 
most easily distinguished. This organ is a modification 
of the inferior lip ; it is tubular in character, and in a 
state of repose is folded up under the head and thorax. 
The rostrum encloses the hairlike penetrating parts. 

Two groups of parasites, known popularly as lice or 
pediculi, and bed-bugs, are included in this order. 

The term lice is loosely used, the " lice " of pigeons, 
bird-lice, are degenerate Orthoptera. 

Some Hemiptera, as the aphis and scale insects, are very 
destructive to vegetable life. 

Family PEDICULID.E. The body is flattened. The 
rostrum is provided with barbed hooklets. The antennae 
are inserted in a kind of sinus in the front of the head, 
and are composed of three, four or five segments, the 
number of these being used for the separation of genera. 
These three thoracic segments are distinctly separated. 
The abdomen comprises six to nine segments. Legs are 
terminated by one or two long claws. 



282 PEDICULI 

The eggs are pyriform in shape, fixed by their smaller 
end to the bases of the hairs of the host : the larger end 
is provided with an operculum which the young split off 
in emerging. After the eggs are laid the young are 
hatched out. They resemble the adults and mature 
rapidly. There is no metamorphosis. 

The family comprises several genera, of which we 
consider only Pediculus and Phthirius. 

.Thorax narrower f Distinct neck ... Pediculus. 

Antennae with five seg- f than abdomen | XT ,. . ( , 

ments. Legs with a J v No distinct neck Hamatopimis. 

single claw 

v Thorax broader than abdomen .. Phlhirius. 




FIG. 123. Pediculus vcstimenti. 

Pediculus capitis (Head-louse). The male is i to 2 
mm. in length, the female somewhat larger. The head 
is triangular in shape, the thorax as broad as the abdomen, 
and the abdomen has eight segments. 

The female lays fifty to sixty eggs which hatch out in 
about seven days. The young are able to reproduce in 
seventeen to twenty days after birth. 

Pediculus vestimenti (Body-louse). Male 2 to 3 mm. 



PEDICULI 283 

in length, females larger. Head somewhat rounded. 
Antennae longer than in P. capitis. The thorax is 
narrower than the abdomen. 

The female lays seventy to eighty eggs, which hatch 
out in three to eight days. 

Phthirius inguinal is (Crab-louse). The genus Phthirius 
includes a single species. This species is peculiar to man 
and has a preference for the white races. 

Male 0*8 to ro mm. in length ; female i to 1-5 mm. 
The head is large and provided with two long antennae. 
Thorax is broader than the abdomen and shows no trace 
of separation from it. 




FIG. 124. Phthirius inguinalis. 

The female lays ten to fifteen eggs, which hatch out in 
six to seven days. 

An interesting observation made by Murray, that the 
pediculi of different races differed in colour and even in 
certain anatomical details, has since been confirmed by 
many observers. This is regarded as a kind of protective 
mimicry. From observations on these parasites in the 
Federated Malay States, we believe that the pediculi of 
one race, for example the Chinese, do not pass readily, 
if at all, to another race, for example, the Tamils'. 

Family ClMiCiD^E. This family of the Hemiptera be- 
longs to the division known as Heteroptera, as there is 
a marked difference between the two pairs ot wings. 



284 BED-BUGS 

The family is characterised by the absence of ocelli, 
by the wings being rudimentary, very short and broad, so 
that the abdomen is left uncovered. The head is short 
and broad, and the rostrum is received in a groove 
beneath the head. Tarsi are three-jointed. 

The genus Cimex comprises at least two species parasitic 
on man, C. lectularius and C. rotundatus. Considerable 
interest centres about these, in view of Patton's suggestion 
that they are the carriers of the parasites of kala-azar, 
and the older hypotheses that they may convey relapsing 
fever and leprosy. There is no proof in support of these 
hypotheses. 




FIG 125. Cimex lectularius. 

Cimex lectularius. This insect is oval in form, brownish- 
red in colour, with a much flattened body. It measures 
4 to 5 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth. Eight 
abdominal segments. 

The female lays about fifty whitish eggs, three or four 
times a year. The complete development takes about 
eleven months during which time it casts its skin five 
times. The young larvae are at first pale white. 

Bed-bugs live in cracks in the walls, under carpets, 
behind pictures, wall paper, &c., and only come out at 
night to suck blood which is their only food. They may 
live from five to ten weeks, or even longer, without food. 
The average duration of life is three to four months. 



BED-BUGS 285 

Cimcx rotundatus. This species was originally described 
from the island of Reunion in 1852. Patton has shown 
that it is distributed throughout India, Burma and Assam. 

It is rather smaller than C. lectularius, and in general 
outline less rounded. The main feature, however, is the 
character of the prothorax, which has well-rounded 
borders and gives to the animal an appearance of 
rotundity. 

Other species of Cimex described are C. ciliatus from 
Kasan, Russia, which is smaller than the common bed- 
bug, yellowish-red in colour, and thickly covered with 
hairs, C. columbarius, C. hirundinus, and C. inodorus, 
which have been found attacking birds. 



286 



CHAPTER XVI. 

ARACHNOIDEA TICKS, MITES, POROCEPHALUS. 
CRUSTACEA CYCLOPS. 

The ARACHNOIDEA are a class of the Arthopoda readily 
distinguished from insects, as they have four pairs of legs 
in the adult stage. The head and thorax are usually fused 
into a compact mass, the cephalothorax. The abdomen is 
generally without appendages; it may be segmented or 
unsegmented ; it is generally distinct from, but may be 
fused to, the cephalothorax. Compound eyes such as 
occur in insects are never present the eyes when present 
are always simple. Respiration may be by means of 
tracheae or cutaneous. The genital orifice is in the middle 
or in the anterior half of the ventral surface and is dis- 
tinct from the alimentary canal. The sexes are distinct. 
In most cases the newly hatched young are essentially 
like the adults. 

The class Arachnoidea is divided into a number of 
orders, including Scorpionidcc (scorpions), Pseudoscorpion- 
idce (book scorpions), Pedipalpi (whip-scorpions), Ara- 
neidcc (spiders), Acarina (mites and ticks), and certain 
aberrant orders, as Linguatulida or Pentastomiidce. 

Order ACARINA (Mites and Ticks.) These are small 
Arachnoids, usually parasitic. They occur in earth, in 
fresh or salt water, or 'on animals or plants. They feed 
on the organisms they infest or upon organic matter. 

The abdomen and cephalothorax form a fused mass. 
The mouth-parts are formed for biting or for puncturing 
and sucking, according to the mode of life. Respiration 
may be cutaneous, but in most there are tracheae with two 



TICKS 



287 



stigmata. Many of the young have only three pairs of 
legs when hatched, but after moulting have four pairs. 

The Acarina which cause disease or act as carriers of 
disease are divided into families as follows : 



I. Non-vermi- 
form acarina 



(a) Legs inserted Legs with Tracheae open- 
directly into in- six joints ing in the 
tegument posterior part 

of body 



(b) Legs articulated 
on distinct epimerse 



Chelicerae with Ixodidce. 
hooklets 

Chelicerae di- Gamasida. 
dactylous or 
styliform 



{Tracheae open- 
ing in ante- 
rior part of 
body 


Chelicerae styli- Trombidiiia. 
form or with 
hooklets ; 
palps free 


No tracheae ... 


Cheliceroe di- Sarcoptidcc, 
dactyl o us; 
Palps cylin- 
drical and 
adherent to 
inferior lip 



II. 



Vermiform 
acarina 



Legs articulated Legs with No tracheae 
on distinct epi- three 
merae joints 

IXODID.E. 



Chelicerse styli- Demodicidce. 
form ; palps 
with hooklets 



The family Ixodidce is composed of comparatively large 
Acarines with leathery skins. They have flattened bodies, 
but after sucking blood become much distended. The 
mouth-parts, which are characteristic, comprise a median 
penetrating organism, the hypostome, armed with recurved 
teeth, two rod-like organs surrounded at their bases 
by a sheath, the chelicerae, each of which is terminated by 
a process bearing large hooked teeth. On either side of 
the chelicerae and hypostome lies a four-jointed palp, 
which in some genera is closely applied to the piercing 
organs and appears to act as a sheath for them, but in 
other genera is quite free (fig. 129). 

Each leg consists of six main segments known respec- 
tively as coxa, trochanter, femur, patella, tibia and tarsus. 
The trochanter may have spines or teeth. The tarsus 
bears on its terminal segment two claws (fig. 126). There 
are two sub-families, Ixodince and Argasince. 



288 



TICKS 



In the sub-family Ixodincc the skin of the dorsal surface 
is thickened to form a hard, leathery, chitinous plate, the 
scutum or dorsal shield, which in the male covers almost 
the whole of the dorsum, while in the female it covers 
only the anterior portion of the dorsum. This arrange- 
ment serves to distinguish males from females. In the 
sub-family Argasince these shields are not present. 





FIG. 126. 



Eyes are not always present. They consist of a simple 
lens only and may be globular or flat. In the Ixodincc 
they are situated at the margins of the dorsal shield ; in 
the Argasiucv on a ridge above the coxae. 

The stigmata or openings of the tracheal system are 
situated behind the level of the fourth pair of legs in 





FIG. \2-j.-Jxodina (Female), a, Dorsal aspect, showing shield ; b, ventral aspect. 
19 



290 EXAMINATION OF TICKS 

Ixodincc and between the third and fourth pair of legs in 
the Argasimv. 

The genital orifice is situated in the middle line on the 
ventral surface, a short distance behind the rostrum at 
the level of the second and third coxx. 

In the middle line, behind the level of the last pair of 
legs, is the valvular anus. On either side of the anus in 
certain genera are situated thickenings of the cuticle 
known as anal plates : the number, shape and position 
of these are of value in classification. 

Examination of Ticks. Ticks can be examined living 
or dry, and the main points clearly made out with the 
aid of a hand lens. The dorsal and ventral aspects must 
be examined in turn. The points to observe on the 
ventral surface are along the median line, the rostrum, 
with the palps on each side ; the opening of the genital 
organs in the anterior half of the body and the anal 
opening in the posterior half, and any deep furrow in 
front or behind this anus, anal furrow. At the sides the 
position and any special markings on the coxae should 
be noted ; the respiratory area, stigma, anterior or pos- 
terior to the fourth coxa.' and its shape, and the presence 
or absence of any " shields " or chitinous plates on each 
side of the anal, adanal shields. 

On the dorsal aspect the presence or absence of a dorsal 
shield should be noticed, and its extent as to whether it 
covers the whole of the back or the anterior part only. 
Any markings, bosses or protuberances, and how far these 
form a continuous pattern to the edge of the dorsum, or 
vary at the margins. Eyes should be looked for. 

The details in the structure of the mouth-parts are best 
seen in specimens rendered translucent by treatment with 
alkalies. In smaller ticks, if not distended with blood or 
eggs, boiling for a few minutes in a 10 per cent, solution 
of caustic soda will suffice, but it is better to leave for a 
longer time in the solution. Many ticks contain chro- 
matin and are not readily decolourised. After the treat- 
ment with caustic soda they should be well washed, and 




FIG. 128. Ixodina (Males), a, Dorsal aspect, showing dorsal shield ; d, ventral aspect 
in species with adanal plates ; c, ventral aspect in species without adanal plates. 



292 ANATOMY OF TICKS 

may be examined mounted in glycerine or dehydrated 
with alcohol and oil of cloves and mounted in Canada 
balsam. 

Dissection of Ticks. Christophers recommends the fol- 
lowing method : Holding the tick between finger and 
thumb, with a pair of sharp scissors snip fine slices from 
the edges. Gently wash in normal saline solution and 
place in a small dish containing the same solution. By 
using one pair of forceps to seize the ventral flap and 
another the dorsal flap at their posterior ends, the latter 
may be dragged forward over the head, leaving the 
viscera attached in situ to the ventral surface. The chief 
anatomical features can be made out by displacing the 
larger organs and removing with fine forceps the tissues 
which hold these in position. 

Internal Anatomy of Ticks. The chitinous pharyngeal 
pump, which opens into the mouth, leads posteriorly to 
a narrow, straight oesophagus. The oesophagus, after 
perforating the central nerve ganglion, enters the enor- 
mous saccular portion of the alimentary canal which, 
with its diverticula, forms the great bulk of the body 
contents. Posteriorly an extremely fine canal joints the 
central saccular gut with the rectum. Opening into the 
rectum on either side is a Malpi^lnan tubule. These 
latter are two fine white or transparent tubules of great 
length which, after a complicated course among the 
viscera, end blindly in the anterior part of the body. 
The rectum has several diverticula and terminates in 
the anus. 

The salivary glands, two in number, lie over the bases 
of the first two pairs of legs. There is a central duct 
which arises near the free extremity, and passing through 
the whole length of the gland becomes the salivary duct. 
The salivary ducts open into the mouth. In the female 
the single ovary lies upon the diverticula of the alimen- 
tary canal in the posterior portion of the body. Leading 
from it on either side are the long coiled oviducts. In 
front of the ovary is the spennatlieca. In the male, in the 



LIFE-HISTORY OF TICKS 293 

same position as the ovary in the female, is a thin 
delicate tubule, the testis. 

Life-history. The ova of ticks are laid in recesses in 
the soil : in the Ixodincc the number of these is 2,000 to 
4,000, in the Argasincc a few hundreds only. After a 
variable period the six-legged larva is hatched out. The 
larvae attach themselves at the first opportunity to some 
vertebrate, from which they suck blood. In some ticks 
the larva, having gorged itself with blood, drops off upon 
the ground, and after a few days casts its skin and 
emerges as the eight-legged nymph, which differs from the 
adult form mainly in the absence of a genital opening. 
The nymph in turn attacks a fresh host, and having fed, 
drops off, and after moulting becomes the adult tick. 
Hcv.maphy sails leaclii undergoes its development in this 
way. In other ticks, such as Megaropus annulatus, the 
metamorphosis from larva to nymph takes place on the 
host. The nymph may or may not leave the host before 
reaching the adult stage. In Oniithodoros moubata and 
0. savignyi the larvae do not suck blood. 

Ticks as Carriers of Disease. Ticks are known to be 
carriers of the several species of haematozoal parasites be- 
longing to the genera Piroplasma and Spirochccta. In 
man a spirochaete (S. .duttoni) which is the causative 
agent in African relapsing fever is carried by a tick, 
Oniithodoros moubata, and an analagous disease of fowls, 
also due to a spirochaete, is transmitted by Argas 
miuiatus. In mammals a number of diseases conveni- 
ently grouped under the name Piroplasmoses are carried 
by ticks belonging to the sub-family Ixodincc. 

It is important to note the stage in its development at 
which a tick may transmit parasites, as this differs accord- 
ing to the species of parasite and the species of tick con- 
cerned. For example, larva; of Megaropus nnuiihitiis 
from an infected mother are able to transmit Texas fever, 
while in the case of Hamophysalis leachi, one of the 
carriers of canine piroplasmosis, the larvae and nymphs 
are not infective, and only the adult can convey the dis- 



294 



CLASSIFICATION OF TICKS 



ease ; again, in the case of Amblyomma hebramm, which 
conveys the parasite of heartwater in sheep and goats, 
the nymph is infective if fed as a larva, and the adult if 
fed as a nymph. 

SYSTEMATIC CLASSIFICATION OF TICKS. 

Rostrum on ventral surface of body not visible 
from above in the adults. No dorsal shields 
or adanal plates. Stigma in front of fourth 
coxa. Palps fine Sub-family Argasince. 




FIG. 129. Mouth- parts of Ornithodoros. 



Rostrum terminal. Dorsal shields present. 
Adanal plates in males of some genera only. 
Stigma posterior to fourth coxa. Palps 
grooved on internal aspect and usually closely 
applied to rostrum Sub-family Ixodimc. 

Sub-fam i ly A rgn since.. 

Body with sharp ed^es. No eyes. No deep 
furrows on ventral surface. Skin wrinkled. 
Pattern of marking on the edge differs from 
that on the remainder of the dorsum Genus Argas. 

Body {with thick edges. Eyes present in some 
species. Often deep furrows on ventral sur- 
face. Skin covered with bosses and the 
pattern of these is continued to the edge ..Genus Ornithodoros. 



1XODIN.E 



295 



Sub-family Ixodince. 

Palps long, the second joint much longer than 

broad Group I . Ixodina. 

Palps short, the second joint much broader than 

long Group II. Rhipicephalce. 




FlG. 130. Mouth-parts of Ixodes, 




FlG. 131. Mouth-parts of Rhipicephahis. 

Group I. Lrodince. 

Anal furrow in front of anus. No eyes Genus Ixodes. 

Anal furrow behind anus, often continued 
laterally to genital furrow (fig. 127). 

(i)_Anal plates present in $ . Eyes present 

Genus Hyalonuna. 



296 IXODIN/E-ORNITHODOROS 

(2) No anal plates in ^. 

(a) With eyes Genus Amblyomma. 

(6) Without eyes Genus Aponomma. 

Group II. RhipicepJialcf. 

1. No eyes present. 

No adanal plates in $ . Second segment of 
palp has a well-marked lateral projection... 

Genus Hcemaphysalis. 

2. Eyes present. 

(a) No adanal plates in J. Base of rostrum 
quadrilateral Genus Dermacentor. 

(b) With adanal plates in $. Base of rostrum 
hexagonal, with well-marked lateral angle. 

(1) Two adanal shields, free or united 
in front, with or without accessory 
shields. Nopre-anal furrow. Stig- 
mata circular or oval (fig. 128, b.} Genus Megaroptis. 

(2) Two adanal shields, free. Pre-anal 
furrow present. Stigmata comma- 
shaped (fig. 128, .) Genus Rhipicephalus. 

Ornithodoros moiibata. Length about 8 mm., width 
6 to 7 mm. General shape of the body ovoid, somewhat 
wider behind than in front ; yellowish-brown in colour 
when young, greenish-brown when adult. Integument 
studded with small tubercles. On the dorsal surface 
three pairs of grooves running obliquely downwards and 
inwards towards posterior end. Above the bases of the 
legs a longitudinal supra-coxal groove. On the ventral 
surface there is a deep pre-anal groove joining the supra- 
coxal grooves laterally ; behind the anus three pairs of 
longitudinal grooves. 

There are no eyes present. Stigma semilunar in front 
above the supra-coxal groove. Fourth leg one and a 
half times as long as the first ; tibiae and tarsi of first 
three pairs with three teeth on the upper side. 

This species is widely distributed in Central Africa from 
east to west. Another species, 0. savignyi, in which eyes 
are present, has been found in Somaliland, German East 
Africa, the Congo and India. (Fig. 132, 0. savignyi, 
dorsal and ventral surface.) 




FIG. \T>2.Ornithodoros savignyi. a, Ventral aspect ; b, dorsal aspect ; c, lateral 
aspect between second and third pair of legs. 



298 



DEMODEX 



Family Demodicidcv. Body small, vermiform, com- 
prising an anterior part provided with legs and a 
posterior part showing transverse striation. Mandibles 
styliform, palps consisting of three segments, the last of 
which has a curved hooklet. No eyes. Four pairs of 
legs. No stigmata. Larvae have three pairs of rudi- 
mentary legs or may be footless. 

These animals are parasites of the hair follicles and 
sebaceous glands of the skin of mammals. 




F i ( ; . 133. Deinodex folliailannn. 

Deiiiodcx j'ollicnlaniin (fig. 133) is a common parasite 
in man, and may cause inflammation by obstructing 
excretory gland ducts. 

The male is about 3 mm. in length and the female 
4 mm. in length. 

Order LlNGUATULlD^. Probably degenerate Amcli- 
noidca. They are wormlike in form and externally 
annulated ; there is no distinction between head, thorax, 
and abdomen. No oral appendages are present, but there 
are two pairs of movable hooks near to the mouth, which 



LINGUATULID.-E 299 

are regarded as remains of the antennae and palpi. 
Alimentary canal simple, no Malpighian tubes. There 
are no sense organs or tracheae. 

The sexes are distinct ; the males smaller than the 
females. 

Adults live in the nasal cavity, frontal sinus, or lungs 
of the dog, wolf, and other animals ; occasionally they 
are found in man. 

The females lay eggs, which if taken up by an inter- 
mediate host give rise to embryos. These embryos pass 
from the intestine to the liver or lung where they encyst, 
moult, and pass through a larval stage, in which the 
characters of the adult are developed. Finally they reach 
the nasal cavities of the same or a new host and become 
sexually mature. 

Poroceplialus annillahis. The larval form originally 
known as Pcntastomum constrictniii is probably a Poro- 
ccphalns. It has been found on several occasions 
encysted in the livers of negroes in Africa. The number 
of rings is never more than twenty-two, which corresponds 
to the number of rings in the larval forms of Poroccphalus 
arinillatns. According to Sambo n the adult forms of 
this group occur in the lungs of the Royal Python and 
in those of the Nose- horned Viper. 

Class CRUSTACEA. Order COPEPODA. Elongated crus- 
taceans, usually with distinct segments. No dorsal shell. 
Five pairs of biramose thoracic appendages, the last of 
which may be rudimentary. Abdomen without limbs. 
The females carry the eggs in external ovi-sacs (fig. 134). 

To this order belongs the freshwater Cyclops, a tropical 
species of this genus is the intermediate host for Filaria 
medinensis the well-known Guinea-worm. 



3oo 



CRUSTACEA 




FIG. 134. 






3oi 



CHAPTER XVII. 
PIGMENT DEPOSITS AND DEGENERATIONS IN TISSUES. 

THE pigment deposits are in the main those derived 
from altered haemoglobin. Of these the most important 
is melanin, the residue from the digestion of the red 
corpuscles by the parasites of malaria. This pigment 
is taken up by the leucocytes and other phagocytic cells 
and deposited in various parts of the body. 

As seen in the interior of a parasite it is at first finely 
divided and varies in colour according to the species 
of parasite, later it may be aggregated in each parasite 
into a mass. In the large masses which are found in 
the tissues it is black with a slight greenish tinge, it 
is insoluble in acids, in alcohol and in ether, but is 
readily dissolved by alkalies. It is very stable and is 
not destroyed by putrefaction. In solution in alkalies 
it has a distinctly greenish tinge, but shows no charac- 
teristic bands when examined with the spectroscope. 
From this solution it can be precipitated by the addition 
of acids, and by repeated solution in alkaline fluids 
and precipitation with acids, can be isolated in an 
impure condition. Analysis shows that it is very rich 
in iron, more so than haemoglobin or any of the other 
haemoglobin derivatives. The iron is in firm organic 
combination, and does not give the inorganic iron 
reactions. After frequent precipitations it becomes brown 
in colour, and the same brownish tinge can be observed 
in pigment left in certain organs as a result of old 
malarial invasion. 



302 MELAXIX 

Melanin in an acute attack of malaria is found (<i) 
in parasites, (6) in leucocytes, and (c) in certain cells of 
the connective tissue type in the liver, in the parenchy- 
matous cells in the spleen, and occasionally in the nuclei 
of the endothelium of the capillaries in various parts 
of the body, such as the brain, liver, suprarenals, &c. 
In an invasion of short duration the only pigment found 
is in small granules, often no larger than those set free 
after the breaking up of a sporulating body. At this 
stage the cells containing the pigment stain normally 
and do not differ in appearance from other cells of the 
same type which do not contain pigment. 

When death occurs some little time after the termina- 
tion of an attack of malaria the distribution of the melanin 
deposits is much more limited. It will not be found in 
the red corpuscles as there are no parasites, nor in the 
leucocytes or endothelial cells, but will be restricted to 
the connective tissue cells in the liver and the paren- 
chyma of the spleen. The pigment itself is now aggre- 
gated into larger masses, though these may be seen to be 
composed of separate granules. The cells stain faintly 
with ordinary stains and often appear to be shrunken or 
distorted. If examined still later the pigment will only 
be found in blocks or masses, and the cells containing 
these blocks will not take basic stains, and appear merely 
as an outline round the pigment masses, some of which 
appear to be free. The change to a brownish colour, 
particularly at the edges of such masses, is sometimes 
to be noted. 

Later, even months or years after the malarial attack, 
pigment may be found. If present it will be imbedded 
in the fibrous stroma and no trace of the cells will be 
seen. At this stage the spleen is usually the only organ 
in which the pigment will be found. 

A consideration of these changes will show that the 
date of a malarial invasion or invasions can be inferred 
from the melanin deposits in the organs if the state of 
division of the pigment, the staining reactions of the cells 






H^MOSIDERIX 303 

containing the pigment, and the situation of the pigment 
be observed. 

It cannot be concluded because no pigment is present 
that there has not been antecedent malaria. We have 
proof that pigment is rapidly removed from all organs 
except the liver and spleen (and occasionally the lymphatic 
glands), and also that it may be removed from either the 
liver or spleen. In all recent attacks both organs contain 
pigment ; after a longer interval it may be present in the 
spleen only, or rarely in the liver only. 

In the older cases when malarial infections have not 
occurred for a prolonged period the amount of melanin 
found is usually small. In some cases, even a few weeks 
after an attack of malaria, the amount of melanin is so 
small that careful search is required to reveal it. It 
seems probable that as long as the pigment is contained 
in living cells it is fairly readily removed. 

In many cases there is evidence that the pigment 
(melanin) deposited is the result of several distinct 
attacks, as in the same specimen finely divided pigment 
in cells which stain normally, coarse pigment in cells 
that stain poorly, blocks of pigment with no traces of a 
containing cell, and pigment in between strands of 
fibrous tissue, can all be seen. 

Melanin is the only pigment which is characteristic of 
malaria. 

Another pigmentary deposit of a bright yellow colour 
is often found in the organs in cases of malaria, but this 
is also found in pernicious anaemia, in the anaemia of 
ankylostomiasis, and in other cases where haemolysis or 
blood destruction has taken place, such as trypanoso- 
miasis and kala-azar. 

This yellow pigment differs from melanin not only in 
colour but in that it is insoluble in alkali as well as 
in acid. It appears to be slightly soluble in alcohol. 
Whether or not it contains iron is difficult to ascertain, 
as it is frequently associated with other substances con- 
taining iron in inorganic combination. When found 



304 IKON DEPOSITS 

alone it usually does not give the reactions for inorganic 
iron. 

This yellow pigment is found in the true hepatic cells, 
in the secreting cells of the kidney, particularly in the 
first part of the convoluted tubules, and in the spleen. 

It is evidence of blood destruction from any cause, 
whether acute, as in blackwater fever, or chronic, as in 
pernicious anaemia or ankylostomiasis. 

Both these pigment deposits can be observed without 
cutting sections by making " squash " preparations of 
tissues of the organs, but the arrangement is better 
shown in sections. 

Merely to detect the pigment no stain is needed, but 
to show the character of the cells containing the pigment 
it is well to stain lightly. Haematoxylin gives good 
results, but a better stain is carmine, as both the melanin 
and the yellow pigment stand out better against the 
red background. Thionin should not be used as it has 
an affinity for these pigments or the protoplasm surround- 
ing them. 

In many cases granules that contain iron in a condi- 
tion to react to the usual tests for inorganic iron are 
associated with the yellow pigment. Ammonia sulphide 
is sometimes used as the test for the demonstration 
of inorganic iron, but has the disadvantage that the 
brown sulphide of iron deposited can be confused with 
malarial pigment. A better reagent is ferrocyanide of 
potassium in an acid solution, as the blue ferrocyanide of 
iron is characteristic and causes no confusion. 

The section should be first treated with a i\ per cent, 
aqueous solution of potassium ferrocyanide for five 
minutes and then with a i per cent, solution of hydro- 
chloric acid in glycerine, or with acid alcohol. The acid 
glycerine should be slightly warmed, and must be left on 
till the blue colour is quite distinct. If the blue colour 
only shows faintly the specimen can be replaced in the 
ferrocyanide solution and again treated with acid glyce- 
rine or acid alcohol. The specimen can then be washed 



IRON DEPOSITS 305 

in water, dehydrated in alcohol, cleared in xylol, and 
mounted in balsam. 

It is important that the sections should not be touched 
with iron after they are cut, so that they must not be 
lifted with a needle, as in any place touched with iron 
there may be a deposit of the blue ferrocyanide of iron. 

Loosely combined iron will be shown blue, whilst the 
melanin in which the iron is in firm combination will 
remain black. The yellow pigment may be in part 
turned blue or may be unaltered. The outlines of the 
cells can generally be seen and counter-staining is not 
necessary, but weak carmine solutions can be used if 
it is desired. 

The iron may be diffused throughout the cells or may 
be found in granules either alone or mixed with yellow 
pigment. 

The relationship of these ferruginous granules to the 
yellow pigment is not definitely known. In the most 
acute hcemolytic processes, such as in blackwater fever, 
both are present and the iron-bearing granules are the 
most numerous. In the most chronic forms, such as 
some cases of ankylostomiasis, yellow pigment alone will 
be found. 

The balance of evidence is in favour of the view that 
ferruginous granules are evidence of active and recent 
haemolysis, whilst the yellow pigment is a more perma- 
nent substance, and though formed as a result of acute 
haemolysis is, when in considerable amount, evidence 
rather of a prolonged or chronic haemolysis. 

Some authorities hold other views, and consider that 
the yellow pigment when old gives the iron reaction. 

The important point is that both these substances 
are proof of blood destruction, and are not evidence 
of 'malaria, although often found in cases of malaria. 
They are evidence of the general blood destruction that 
may be caused by the parasites of malaria as well as 
by other organisms. 

In the vicinity of certain skin lesions there may be 
20 



306 PIGMENT 

considerable disturbance in the normal arrangement of 
the pigment, so that instead of being deposited only in 
the deeper layers of the epidermis it is scattered not 
only in the superficial layers of the epidermis, but also 
in the subcuticular connective tissues. 

The disturbance of the arrangement of pigment is most 
conspicuous in growths of the granulomatous group, 
including lichen hypertrophicus. 

Pigment is normally present in the skin, and it is com- 
mon to find pigment in the mucous membranes, particu- 
larly of the mouth in the coloured races. Such pigment 
is generally found in patches in the mucous membrane 
of the tongue, cheeks, or gums. It has no connection 
with malaria or other disease, but is more conspicuous 
in cases of advanced anaemia, as the pigmented patches 
then stand out more markedly against the general white 
background. 

The normal pigmentation of the pia mater has been 
already mentioned. It is extravascular, and is not dis- 
solved by alkalies. 

The pigment in all these cases is much less soluble in 
alkaline solutions than the melanin of malaria. Pigmen- 
tation of the skin as a result of Addison's disease is also 
well known. 

In melanotic sarcoma, black or brown pigment is also 
deposited in the growth. 

Degeneration. Cells exposed to various influences 
undergo degenerative processes. Death or necrosis of 
cells may take place, and in such cases the cell ceases 
to stain normally, so that instead of taking up basic 
stains it stains with acid stains, or feebly with both 
acid and basic stains. The nuclei break up and lose 
their characteristic staining reactions, and the whole 
cell may disintegrate and be converted into granular 
debris, or caseation may take place in which a mass 
of cells is replaced by granular fatty material. The mass 
may become calcined. 

Where the morbid influences are insufficient to cause 



DEGENERATION 307 

cellular death, changes occur in the 'protoplasm. Of 
these the more important are : (i) " Cloudy swelling," in 
which the protoplasm of the cell becomes swollen and 
the aspect of the cell changed so that its contents become 
obscured and very finely granular. This change is best 
seen in fresh, unfixed cells and is shown in stained speci- 
mens by an irregularity in the staining. This change 
occurs in the early stages of inflammatory action and 
may be general in any prolonged pyrexia. (2) Fatty 
degeneration may affect any cells, but more especially 
muscular fibres and the glandular cells of the liver, 
kidney, intestinal mucosa, &c. 

In this latter form droplets of fat are found in the 
interior of the cells : these at first are small, but in 
advanced cases the whole contents of the cell appear 
to be replaced by fat and the nucleus is squeezed to one 
side. With fresh specimens the high refractive index of 
the fat renders the diagnosis easy. In specimens passed 
through alcohol, &c. ( the fat is dissolved out and the 
condition is then recognised by the meshwork of the 
protoplasm having clear, round, unstained spaces which 
were previously occupied by the fat globules. 

Special methods show this form of degeneration more 
clearly. In specimens hardened in any of the osmic 
acid fixatives, such as Fleming's solution, or cut fresh 
and treated with weak osmic acid, the fat will be stained 
a deep and intense black. Such sections can be counter- 
stained with safranin. 

Soudan III. and Scharlach R. are also good stains for 
fat. Fresh tissues or tissues hardened in formalin must 
be used. The sections are treated with a saturated 
alcoholic solution of the stains (80 per cent, alcohol) for 
fifteen minutes, rapidly washed in 50 per cent, alcohol 
and washed in distilled water. They can be counter- 
stained with haematoxylin and mounted in any glycerine 
medium. The fat will be stained a deep red. A rough 
estimate of the amount and extent of the fatty degenera- 
tion may be made from such a section, but the main 



308 FATTY DEGENERATION 

advantage of the method is to show the distribution 
of the degeneration and the class of cells mainly 
involved. \ 

A promising method for the estimation of the extent 
of this degenerative process is the determination of the 
specific gravity of the organs. In some cases the fat 
is in sufficient amount to cause the entire liver to float 
in water, but more commonly it is short of this. To 
determine the specific gravity a large portion of an 
organ is weighed and the volume of this portion deter- 
mined. This volume can be ascertained in the course 
of an ordinary post-mortem examination by the use of 
a vessel with an open tube fixed at the side. 

The vessel is filled with water till the water escapes 
from the tube. When the water has ceased to escape 
a receiver is placed under the tube and the weighed 
portion of the organ is placed in the vessel. Water will 
again escape from the tube, is collected in the receiver 
and measured. The volume of this water is the same 
as that of the organ placed in the vessel, as it is the 
amount displaced by it. 

We now know the volume of a given weight of the 
organ and therefore its specific gravity. This method 
is sufficiently exact for ordinary purposes if a sufficiently 
large piece of the organ is taken, but for comparative 
purposes more information is required than we at pre- 
sent possess as to the normal variations in the specific 
gravities of organs. 

Fatty degeneration is an important factor in many 
tropical diseases. It is marked in yellow fever almost 
as much as in poisoning by phosphorus. In the anaemia 
of ankylostomiasis it is constant and pronounced, and 
as it affects extensively the intestinal mucosa, it is, in 
the more chronic cases, largely responsible for the impair- 
ment of the digestive processes in some of these cases. 
It also occurs in the liver and kidneys in this disease, 
and as there is also a deposit of haemosiderin these 
organs often appear to be of a dusky chrome-yellow 



AMYLOID DEGENERATION 309 

colour. The occurrence of this degeneration in the 
cardiac muscles is more serious, as cardiac failure, either 
acute or chronic, frequently is due to this condition. 

Amyloid degeneration is best shown in fresh sections. 
Macrosopically it can usually be determined by treat- 
ing a cut surface of an organ with tincture of iodine ; 
a deep brown colour is produced in such portions as 
contain this amyloid material. 

Sections can be similarly treated and mounted in 
glycerine media. 

Methyl violet stains amyloid material a deep red, 
standing out clearly from the surrounding violet. 

Amyloid degeneration is not common in tropical 
diseases, with the exception of leprosy. In that disease, 
even when there has been no extensive suppuration, 
amyloid degeneration is sometimes found. 

Fibrous Degeneration. As a result of degenerative 
changes in many parts, and particularly in the nervous 
system, the nerve elements are replaced by fibrous tissues. 
These are well seen in spinal diseases in which degenera- 
tion of nerve tracts is followed by the formation of 
fibrous tissue in the tracts occupied by the degenerated 
nerves. This fibrous tissue stains with ordinary basic 
stains and is well shown by carmine. This change is 
sclerosis, but is the final result of the degenerative changes. 
The early nerve degenerations require special and com- 
plicated methods and could not be satisfactorily studied 
without special knowledge and appliances. 

The simplest method for demonstration of early nerve 
degeneration is that of Marchi. Small pieces of tissue 
are hardened in Miiller's fluid for one week, taking care to 
avoid mechanical injury. The tissues are then trans- 
ferred to freshly prepared Marchi's fluid (Miiller's fluid 
two parts and i per cent, aqueous solution of osmic 
acid one part), in which they remain for one week at 
about 37 C. Brain tissues require a longer time. The 
tissues are then washed for twenty-four hours in running 
water, hardened in increasing strength of alcohol, im- 



3IO NERVE DEGENERATION 

bedded and cut. Sections are then dehydrated, cleaned 
and mounted in balsam. Nerves are best teased out and 
then mounted. 

Degenerated nerve tissue (fat) is stained black ; all else 
brownish-grey. The earliest degeneration is shown by a 
flecking with black about the internodes ; later fat drop- 
lets staining black more or less completely replace the 
white substance of Schwann. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

PARASITES IN THE TISSUES. 

BACTERIA, protozoa, trematoda, nematoda, and their 
eggs and larvae, may be found in the tissues in various 
diseased conditions in man and animals in the tissues 
of various parts of the body. Bacteria are considered 
separately. 

Protozoa. The common parasites are coccidia and 
sarcosporidia. They occur rarely in man, and are 
probably in those cases accidental parasites, but in other 
mammals are very common. 

Coccidia are sporozoa which are encysted, and by 
their continuous asexual multiplication form visible white 
masses not unlike tubercles. 

The rabbit is very commonly infected, and the large 
masses are found in the liver, though the intestinal 
mucosa may also be infected. 

The young coccidia enter hepatic cells or those of 
the bile duct and speedily destroy the cell. They may 
develop asexually so that a cyst is formed, in which 
the protoplasm divides into a number of young coccidia, 
which, on the rupture of the cyst, enter neighbouring 
cells and in turn multiply. Massive tumours composed 
of these encysted sporozoa are thus found. 

Some of the young coccidia develop into sexual forms, 
male and female. 

In the male forms the cell protoplasm and nucleus 
divide, so that a number of motile bodies, microgametes, 
are formed. When the cyst ruptures, these microgametes 
enter a female and fertilise it. The female forms, macro- 



312 COCCIDIA 

gametes, do not divide till the microgametes have entered 
and fertilised them. After this fertilisation, which takes 
place in the liver, the cyst wall of the fertilised macro- 
gametes becomes impervious, and ultimately this cyst, 
now known as the oocyst, becomes detached and passed 
with the bile into the faeces of the host, and is passed 
externally. Lying on the ground the cell contents of 
this oocyst or fertilised macrogamete divide so that eight 
spores are formed. When swallowed by a suitable host 
the cyst wall is dissolved off, and the spores enter cells 
and become young coccidia. 

The different coccidia which have occurred in man 
are : 

Coccidium cuniculi (C. oviforme), in which the oocysts 
measure -033 to -049 mm. long by '015 to -028 mm. wide. 
This parasite has been found in the liver in man on 
three or four occasions. 

Coccidium liotninis, in which the oocysts measure 
024 to '035 mm. by '012 to '020 mm. This is a parasite 
of the intestinal epithelium of rabbits in which it causes 
death from severe diarrhoea. It has been described in 
the intestine of man on a few occasions. Some authori- 
ties hold that it is identical with C. cuniculi. 

Coccidium bigeminum, in which the oocysts measure 
"OI2 to '015 mm. by "007 to 'oio mm. In this form 
the oocyst divides into two parts, each of which encysts 
and forms sporoblasts. A small number of cases are 
described in man. 

Demonstrations. The demonstration in tissues of the 
coccidia is not difficult, as even without staining the 
shape and general appearance can be readily made out. 
They are very liable to be mistaken for eggs of trema- 
todes. To stain the cell contents is a difficult matter. 
The wall of the organism is not readily penetrated by 
stains, and when the stain does penetrate the contents 
are apt to be so deeply stained that details cannot be 
made out. Good results can be obtained by staining 
with iron alum. 



SARCOSPORIDIA 313 

The method is as follows. The solutions required are : 

A. 2*5 per cent, solution of iron alum. 

B. Haematoxylin crystals I gramme. 

Absolute alcohol 10 cc. 

Distilled water 90 cc. 

This solution should be kept for one month to "ripen." Then add water 
100 cc. 

Sections are first placed in the iron alum solution (A) 
for six to twelve hours, washed in water for one minute, 
then left in the haematoxylin solution (B) for twenty- 
four to thirty-six hours. Afterwards they are washed 
and differentiated in iron alum solution until the section 
becomes deep blue, and the nuclear structures stand out 
sharply. This stage is best controlled by watching the 
process under a low power. When completed, wash in 
running water for fifteen minutes. Counterstain very 
lightly with eosin if desired. Dehydrate and mount 
as usual. 

Sarcosporidia. In the muscles of some animals, such 
as cattle, sheep, pigs, rats, &c., elongated bodies are found 
which are often visible with the naked eye. On micro- 
scopic examination these " Hielscher's tubes" are seen 
to be filled with retractile bodies, which are usually 
curved and sausage-shaped, but may be round. Nothing 
is known of the extra-corporeal life-history or sexual 
development of these bodies. Similar bodies have been 
found in man. Each of these bodies is a single in- 
dividual, only a part of the protoplasm is converted 
into spores, the remainder continues to live and form 
spores. This continuous formation of spores without 
the destruction of the original cell leads to the formation 
of these large masses. This peculiarity in the asexual 
development separates the sarcosporidia and the allied 
forms which occur in fishes, Myxosporidia, from the 
other sporozoa, and they are known as Telosporidia ; 
whilst the parasites in which the whole protoplasm 
divides and the parental cell is destroyed in the pro- 



LEISHMAN-DONOVAN BODIES 

cess are known as Xeospondia. The sarcosporidia stain 
readily with basic stains. 

-Little attention has been paid to these bodies. The 
separate organisms are invisible to the naked eye, but 
as they usually occur in masses and produce some 
colour change, appearing as light streaks or nodules ; 
such streaks should be looked for and scrapings of 
them examined microscopically. 

The nature of the bodies can be demonstrated in 
sections or, better, by isolating one of the bodies and 
rupturing it. A large mass of spores are set free and 
can be readily stained after drying by Leishman's stain 
or by Giemsa's stain. They are oval, often sausage-shaped 
bodies, with a nucleus with .diffuse chromatin staining. 
Often detached granules staining with the polychrome 
red are present in the protoplasm. At one end is a clear 
space which may be unstained or very deeply stained, and 
is known as the polar capsule. 

The few species of the sarcosporidia known are in- 
cluded in the genus Sarcocystis. 

The most important of the protozoa found in the 
tissues in man are the Leishman-Donovan bodies, now 
usually believed to be the resting stage of a flagellate. 

These bodies are found in the spleen, liver, mesenteric 
glands, submucosa and in the lungs, and are present in 
enormous numbers. They are contained in endothelial 
cells in the macrophages and imbedded in a hyaline 
matrix, possibly the remnant of a broken-down tissue 
cell between the cells of the organ or tissue. 

They are small, round, oval or oat-shaped bodies, 
characterised by having two unequal chromatin masses, 
one large and oval, staining moderately well with the 
red polychromed methylene blue, and the other smaller, 
more compact, usually rod-shaped, and staining very 
deeply with chromatin stains. They may be readily 
seen in smears made from an infected organ and can be 
recognised in sections. During life they may be obtained 
by puncture of the spleen or liver. They are more easily 



LEISHMAN-DONOVAN BODIES 315 

obtained from the spleen, but there is a certain amount 
of risk in puncturing that organ. They are not so 
numerous in fluid drawn from the liver, but the risk in 
puncturing that organ is slight, and therefore it is on the 
results of liver puncture that the diagnosis should be 
made. The puncture must be made with strict antiseptic 
precautions, and there must be no fluid in the syringe 
used, or the bodies will be broken up. Aspiration must 
be slow and gradual, or blood will be sucked up in too 
great a quantity. 

In the peripheral blood at some stages of the disease 
the bodies may be found in the leucocytes. 

Leishman's stain is an excellent one for smears of the 
organs, or smears of the fluid obtained by puncturing 
the liver, or to demonstrate the parasites in the leucocytes ; 
dilute carbol fuchsin also gives satisfactory results. 

In sections, carbol thionin or haemalum used as 
described for malaria parasites in sections of the blood- 
vessels gives good results. Van Gieson's stain brings 
them out rather better. In this method, after overstain- 
ing ten minutes in the haemalum solution and " blueing" 
the section is covered with a saturated solution of picric 
acid to which i per cent, of acid fuchsin has been 
added. 

The bodies appear very small in section and the two 
chromatin masses are close to each other, as in the 
hardening process there is great shrinking of the parasites. 
The disease caused by these parasites is that known as 
kala-azar. Similar bodies can be obtained by scraping 
the floor of certain ulcerated surfaces on the skin. These 
ulcers are the Oriental sores or Delhi boils. Probably 
they are a different species, as the topographical distribu- 
tion of the two diseases is different. 

The two unequal chromatin masses suggested to Leish- 
man the similar appearances found in degenerate try- 
panosomes. 

Rogers and others have shown that in a medium 
containing 4 per cent, citrate of soda changes occur in 



3*6 WORMS 

the Leishman-Donovan bodies and that ultimately they 
develop flagella. It is essential that the temperature of 
the culture should not exceed 25 C. Rogers states that 
by adding a little citric acid to his cultures, development 
occurs more rapidly and certainly; this addition is not 
however, an essential. 

Trematodes may be present in various tissues. Some, 
such as the schistosoma, are found in blood-vessels other 
trematodes may be found in bile ducts or in the pul- 
monary alveoli. 

Filaria in man and many animals are found in con- 
nective tissue, or in the muscles, or in the peritoneal 
cavity. Others, as in some cattle, are found beneath the 
endothelium of large vessels, such as the aorta, and others, 
again, partly beneath the endothelium and partly free in 
the lumen of the vessel. 

Some nematodes penetrate the intestinal wall, as the 
Trichinclla spiralis and Strotigyloiilcs intcstinales and others 
are encysted in the submucosa either commonly or, as 
in the case of the Anchylostoma dnodenale, exceptionally. 
Eggs are not uncommon in the tissues. Those of 
Schistosoma hcematobium are commonly present in the 
submucosa of the bladder or rectum, and of the S. 
japonicum in the submucosa of the small and large 
intestines. Eggs of these worms may be found in 
other parts and those of S. japonicnm appear to be 
constantly present in the liver and lymphatic glands. 

Embryos are frequently found in blood-vessels and 
exceptionally are extravascular, but in the natural life- 
history of Trichinella spiralis the larvae are encysted in 
muscles of various parts of the body and in the dia- 
phragm and intestinal walls. Nematode embryos, such 
as those of the Anchylostoma dtiodenale, penetrate the 
skin and can be found in the skin, subcutaneous tissues, 
lungs and various parts of the body. 

Eggs and larvae can be readily stained in section with 
any basic stain haematoxylin and carmine perhaps give 
the best results. They can be detected unstained. 



WORMS 317 

Larvae of Trichinella spiralis can be well seen in teased- 
out specimens or in the intestinal walls of small animals, 
such as rats, spread out between two slides. If hardened 
whilst so spread out in alcohol, the intestine can then be 
rapidly treated with sodium hydrate solution till the 
intestinal wall is rendered transparent. The worms are 
then more readily seen. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

F.ECES. 

THE examination of faeces is of the greatest import- 
ance, as most of the intestinal entozoa deposit their eggs 
whilst in the intestinal canal ; others inhabiting the liver 
deposit their eggs in the biliary ducts, while others, again, 
pass their eggs or embryos through the tissues into 
alimentary canal. The eggs of all these are passed with 
the faeces. In other cases the parasites themselves may 
be passed, or in the case of tape- worms the mature seg- 
ments or proglottides only. 

In dysentery, cholera, &c., the organisms found in 
these diseases are present and can be isolated from the 
stools. 

Macroscopic examination of the stools is very necessary 
and much information can be gained. The stools can 
be examined as passed in any vessel, but are more con- 
veniently examined if passed into transparent glass 
vessels ; these can be covered with a larger glass cover 
fitting over the lower vessel like an enlarged Petri dish. 

The points to observe are : 

(1) The presence or absence of blood, mucus, muco- 
pus or pus, and the arrangement relative to the stool of 
such a discharge. 

(2) The colour of the stool and its consistence. 

(3) The presence or absence of evidence of gaseous 
fermentation. 

(4) The odour. 

(5) The reaction, determined as soon as possible after 
the stool is passed. 



MUCUS IN FAECES 



319 



(6) The bulk of the stools. 

(7) Any visible signs of animal parasites, such as the 
worms themselves or the proglottides or segments of 
tape-worms. 

(i) Mucus alone, or streaked or mixed with the blood, 
usually indicates inflammatory action in the lower bowel, 
not necessarily dysenteric. It may be caused by anything 
that sets up such inflammation, such as bilharzia, ulcer- 
ated haemorrhoids, or chronic ulcerations of various kinds 
of the rectum. These latter include malignant growths, 
granulomatous growths, and the ulceration left as a 
sequela of dysentery. Rarely mucus derived from the 
small intestines is passed with the faeces. Such mucus is 
recognised easily as it is stained yellow with bile. 

Clear mucus, whether streaked with bright blood or not, 
without any admixture of faecal matter, is met with in 
early or acute dysenteric attacks. Turbid or purulent 
mucus, sometimes in large quantities and passed either 
without any stool or with solid formed motions, is more 
indicative of a chronic ulceration of the rectum, from 
whatever cause. 

Sometimes the mucus is passed in large masses and 
condensed, and may include much debris and numerous 
epithelial cells. In the condition known as membranous 
colitis, complete casts, several inches in length, of the 
rectum may be passed. These are usually twisted up 
when passed, and may be mistaken for worms. They 
can sometimes be floated out in water, and in any case 
the microscopic structure should render any mistake 
impossible. 

With ulceration limited to the rectum, stools are often 
coated with mucus. The more intimately the mucus 
and blood are mixed with the faeces the higher up are 
the lesions from which the mucus or blood is derived. 
In some lesions the mucus is so intimately mixed with 
the fluid faeces that it is difficult to discern, but tilting 
the vessel from side to side will often indicate its pre- 
sence by the manner in which the stool flows. In some 



320 BLOOD IN FAECES 

cases it is better shown by adding water to the faeces, 
when the flakes or masses of mucus can be more readily 
seen, especially if the diluted faeces are poured from one 
vessel to another. Amoeba are killed or have their 
motility destroyed by this addition of water, and there- 
fore this method should only be adopted when the masses 
cannot be seen on inspection. 

Blood may be passed, bright reel or in clots, in large 
quantities. This is no proof that it is passed from the 
rectum, as if in sufficient quantity and not mixed with 
the faecal contents of the intestine it need undergo very 
little change in passing through the large intestine. Such 
blood is occasionally passed in ankylostomiasis. If 
intimately mixed with the faeces it may have lost com- 
pletely the red colour and appear black and tarry 
melaena. 

When in very small amount altered blood can be 
recognised by Weber's test. The fat is first extracted 
with ether and the stools are then rubbed up with water 
and a third part of acetic acid added. They are now 
shaken up with ether and an ethereal solution of acid 
haematin is obtained if altered blood is present (vide 
table of spectra). 

In other cases, though still red, the stool has a duller 
colour, more like anchovy sauce. Such stools are passed 
in some cases of dysentery where the small intestines are 
implicated, and may also be passed in cases of extensive 
enteritis secondary to malaria. 

Microscopic as well as macroscopic examination of the 
mucus and blood, as well as of the stool, should be made. 

(2) The colour of the stool is much modified by the 
diet, milk especially causing pale stools. Articles of 
diet taken by a patient have a marked effect, and amongst 
abnormal articles that may be met with are earths of 
various kinds, coal-dust, &c., which to the inexperienced 
may cause much confusion. The pipe-clay stools of 
obstructive jaundice may be simulated by those of some 
earth-eaters, and the black stool of the coal-dust eater has. 



BILE ACIDS AND PIGMENTS 321 

been mistaken for melaena. The dark blue stools passed 
by patients taking methylene blue are easily recognised. 

Bile pigments and acids are not usually present in 
normal faeces, as they are absorbed in the small intestine 
or broken down in the large intestine. They may be 
present in diseased conditions or when the food is passed 
too rapidly through the intestinal canal. 

BILE ACIDS may be recognised by Pettenkoffers reaction. 
A small portion of the faeces is mixed with a little sugar 
and placed on a white porcelain dish. A little sulphuric 
acid is allowed to come in contact, and if bile acids are 
present a crimson colour appears. 

BILE PIGMENT may occur either as Bilirnbiu or as 
Bilwerdin. 

(a) Schmidt's Reaction. A saturated solution of per- 
chloride of mercury is added to the faeces, and in the 
presence of bile pigments a bright green colour is 
produced. 

(b) Gwclin's Reaction. A drop of yellow nitric acid 
(i.e., containing nitrous acid) is brought into contact with 
the faeces, and in the presence of bile pigment there is a 
play of colours, one of which must be green. This test 
is more decisive with a watery extract of the faeces. 

(c) H upper? s Test. The faeces are mixed with slaked 
lime suspended in water, and the precipitate is filtered 
and washed. An extract of the dried precipitate is made 
with hot alcohol and a little sulphuric acid. If bile 
pigments are present this extract is green. 

The consistence of the stool is of great importance, 
and it will be found that " looseness " of stools is of more 
importance in tropical practice than in England. In 
ulceration of the ciecum and upper part of the colon, 
even when this is acute and extensive, there need be 
neither visible mucus nor blood, nor even tenesmus. 
lt Tropical diarrhoea " is frequently shown at post-mortem 
examinations to be dysenteric. It is very fatal. On the 
other hand, mucus and blood may be passed with formed 



21 



322 ODOUR AND REACTION OF F.KCES 

or even hard stools when there are a few chronic ulcers 
high up in the large intestine. 

(3) In some forms of tropical diarrhoea, particularly 
that form known in the East as sprue, the stools passed 
are full of air-bubbles and are undergoing active gaseous 
fermentation. 

(4) The odour varies' so greatly with the diet that it 
is of minor importance. In the races subsisting mainly 
on a scanty vegetable diet the odour is singularly slight. 
The smell is mainly due to indol and skatol. In 
cases of dysentery associated with formation of sloughs 
the ordinary faecal odour is replaced by the peculiar pene- 
trating smell associated with that condition. Excessive 
decomposition of the stools may cause an increase in 
the intensity of the normal smell, or if the diet is mainly 
of carbohydrate food-stuff no increase but even a 
diminution. 

Variations in the odour indicate changes in the decom- 
position of the contents of the intestine, often from 
variations in the food, but sometimes from variations in 
the " flora " of the intestinal contents, rarely from struc- 
tural lesions of the intestinal wall. 

The result of the administration of intestinal anti- 
septics is more often a diminution in the putrefactive 
changes in the contents of the bowel than any real 
improvement in the diseaseU condition of the intestinal 
wall. 

(5) The normal reaction of the faeces as determined by 
litmus is nearly neutral, when fasting it is acid, with a 
milk diet faintly alkaline. It is usually acid to phenolph- 
thalein. In many cases of diarrhoea and dysentery this is 
replaced by a decidedly alkaline reaction. To determine 
the reaction the faeces must be examined as soon as they 
are passed, as a change rapidly occurs in most faeces, 
particularly when fluid, rendering them alkaline. Solid 
motions must be rubbed up with water in a mortar. 

(6) Bulk of Faces. The amount of forces passed by 
a European on the average is about 130 grammes per diem. 



BULK OF EXCRETA 323 

On a meat diet it is about half this. In vegetarians it 
is much greater. The amount passed varies with the 
amount of food taken, and inversely as the amount 
digested. The excretions from the intestinal wall form 
a proportion of the faeces, as during prolonged fasts 
22 grammes may still be passed. Most native races con- 
sume a large amount of crude carbohydrates in bulky 
vegetables. Much of this is indigestible and is therefore 
passed with the faeces. The average weight of the excreta 
in native races is greater than in Europeans, and in India 
is about 233 grammes. These amounts are of importance 
in estimating the amount of excrementitious matter that 
has to be disposed of in a community. It is usually 
estimated per 1,000 of the population, and is given for 
a European community as half a ton, and for a native 
community as two-thirds of a ton. 

The bulk of the excreta is variously affected in disease. 
Discharges from the intestinal walls, usually watery in 
character, may form an important part or even, as in 
cholera, nearly the whole of the excreta. 

In other cases where there is an extensive ulcerated 
surface muco-pus may be discharged in quantity and 
no faeces at all. Abscesses such as hepatic abscesses may 
open into the intestine, and then there may be a profuse 
discharge of pus. 

Water is generally absorbed in the small intestines, but 
in many conditions where the intestines are irritated, 
food and even water are hurried so quickly through the 
alimentary canal that little absorption takes place. 

In some diseases, as in pneumonia, and towards the 
crisis in relapsing fever, there is a great tendency to the 
occurrence of frequent large watery motions. 

In dysentery, as a rule, though the motions are frequent, 
the amount of faeces passed is small, and in the acute 
and early stages no faeces at all may be passed, though 
mucus or blood, or both, are passed in quantity. 

In most general diseases, as in malaria, digestion and 
absorption are fairly active, and the motions then are 



324 ANALYSIS OF F^CES 

constipated, but the amount passed is not more dimin- 
ished than might be anticipated from the diminution in 
the amount of food taken. 

In the disease known as sprue or psilosis the motions 
are usually bulky. Digestion and absorption are both 
imperfect. As the guiding principle in this disease is to 
give as complete rest to the alimentary canal as is con- 
sistent with a sufficient supply of nutriment to the tissues, 
it is of importance to know what forms of food are not 
digested and which are. 

In other diseases, as in obstruction of the pancreatic 
duct, it is also important to know which of the digestive 
juices is wanting, as it may be possible to supply the 
deficiency or so modify the diet that little or no call for 
this agent is necessary. 

An analysis of the fieces will show which of the 
important food elements have undergone little or no 
change, provided that the amount and composition of 
food taken from which the faeces is derived is accurately 
known. 

Allowance has to be made for excretions from the 
intestinal wall, and for the secretions from the liver, 
pancreas, &c., which are poured into the intestine in 
variable amounts. 

The investigation is difficult, as the amount of the 
main ingredients excreted in this way may be consider- 
able, and is affected by the food taken. The amount of 
fats excreted, for instance, is greater when fat-free food 
is taken than in the same individual when he is fasting. 

For any investigation food of known composition 
and amount must be taken. The simplest diet is a milk 
diet. Some inert, easily recognised substance, such as 
charcoal or carmine, should be taken at the commence- 
ment of the experiment. The first fjuces containing this 
substance,. usually twenty-four hours after the administra- 
tion, but in cases of diarrhoea four hours, or even less, 
must be saved, as well as all subsequent excreta. A period 
of three days or five days should be taken, and at the 



ANALYSIS OF FAECES 325 

completion of the experiment a second dose of charcoal 
given. As soon as the charcoal appears in the faeces the 
experiment is over. 

The faeces passed during the period must be all 
collected, and should be analysed: (i) For water; (2) 
for nitrogen ; (3) for fats ; (4) for carbohydrates. 

(1) The water can be determined by weighing before and 
after drying, but as volatile substances are present .this 
must be conducted over sulphuric acid in a drying 
chamber not over 60 C. The average amount of water 
is 75 per cent. 

(2) Nitrogen can be determined by taking a weighed 
portion of the faeces, to which is added 15 or 20 cc. 
of ^y sulphuric acid to prevent loss of ammonia. 

This mixture is then dried in a water-bath till fairly 
hard, and the desiccation completed in a drying chamber 
at 10 C. over sulphuric acid. 

A gramme of this dried powder is then mixed with 25 cc. 
of strong sulphuric acid and i gramme of sodium pyro- 
phosphate, and this is allowed to stand for some hours, 
and then cautiously boiled. The nitrogen will all now 
be in the form of ammonium sulphate. 

This can be estimated after allowing to cool by adding 
600 cc. of water and sodium hydrate solution till strongly 
alkaline. Some granulated zinc to prevent bumping 
should also be added. 

The mixture is then distilled and the distillate allowed 
to pass into a measured amount of -^ sulphuric acid. 
The ammonia will neutralise a certain amount of this, 
so that by subsequent titration the amount of ammonia 
that has distilled over can be estimated. 

Undigested proteids passed unchanged form a very 
small part of the nitrogen. 

(3) Fats are usually determined as " total fats" consist- 
ing of fats, soaps and fatty acids. 

The faeces should be thoroughly dried over sulphuric 
acid and treated with i per cent, hydrochloric acid to 
split up the soaps. 



326 PARASITES 

Ether is then added and the ethereal extract dried 
is re-dissolved in water-free ether. 

The residue left after the evaporation of the ether is 
considered as total fats. 

In any question of the digestion of fats it must he 
remembered that fats differ greatly in digestibility, and 
that a healthy person will pass unchanged about 8 per 
cent, of mutton suet, which melts at 52 C., whilst he 
will only pass 2*5 per cent, of pork fat, which melts at 
30 C. A healthy adult on a pure milk diet will digest 
about 95 per. cent. 

(4) Sugar and carbohydrates are usually digested com- 
pletely unless enclosed in an impervious capsule, as in 
some vegetable foods. 

The amount of gas formed from such faeces, kept at 
blood-heat for twenty-four hours, will give a fair indication 
of the amount of carbohydrates present. 

PARASITES. 

(7) Parasites of various kinds may be seen by direct 
examination, but more often it is necessary to strain 
the stools. This is best done by placing the stool on 
a muslin or strong fine wire gauze strainer, and adding 
water and stirring well. By repeating this process all 
the smaller particles of the faeces will be carried through 
the muslin, and only the coarser particles and any 
entozoa present will be left on the strainer. Some 
of the smaller entozoa may be carried through the 
strainer. The fluids that have passed through can be 
strained again (fig. 135), or passed through a muslin bag. 
This is conveniently done with a bucket big enough to 
hold the sieve. The bucket is filled with water so that it 
covers the wire gauze. The faeces are then placed on 
the gauze and stirred well. From time to time the sieve 
is lifted so that the stirred faeces pass into the bucket. 
When the water becomes turbid the strainer is placed 
in a second bucket filled with clear water and the process 



MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION 327 

repeated. On examining the strainer the greater number 
of the worms will now he readily seen. After standing 
a little the superjacent fluid in both buckets should be 
poured oft and the deposit again passed through the sieve. 
More worms will be found. Entozoa are damaged a little 
by this proceeding. Where they are required for detailed 
examination they should be picked out of the undiluted 
faeces. 




FIG. 135 WIRE GAUZE STRAINER. 

Microscopic Examination. The most important objects 
of this are (i) the detection of ova of parasites, (2) the 
detection of animal micro-parasites, and (3) the investi- 
gation of the bacteria present. 

Ova are readily seen with a low power, two-third inch 
objective, but for their identification at least half an inch 
or, better, quarter of an inch objectives are requisite. 

The preparation of the stool is very simple. A small 
particle of the faeces is placed on a slide ; it can be con- 
veniently taken up with a splinter of wood such as a 
match stick. If not too hard it should then be com- 
pressed by a cover-glass into a thin layer ; if too hard for 
this it can be mixed with a little water. If the stool be 



328 EGGS 

watery it should be allowed to stand, and with a pipette 
some of the fluid taken from the bottom, as the eggs are 
heavier than the fluid stool and sink to the bottom of the 
vessel containing it. The eggs that may be met are those 
of the Ascatis lumbricoidcs, Tricocephalus dispar, Ankylos- 
tomuin tlnodciuile, O.vviiris ri'miicultiris, several species of 
tape-worms, several species of Fasciolidce, those of Schis- 
fosoinitin liivmtttobiuin with the lateral spine sometimes, 
and those of S. japonicutn, and the embryos of Strongv- 
loidcs i litest inalis. The attached diagram shows the 
appearance of the more important of the ova. 

The eggs of Ascaris liiinbricoidcs (round-worm) are 
enclosed in a thick, clear capsule usually coated with an 
albuminoid covering stained yellow or brown by the 
faecal colouring matter. The protoplasmic contents are 
granular and do not as a rule completely fill the inner 
capsule (fig. 136, a). 

If too much pressure has been used the albuminoid 
covering may have been ruptured and the egg is seen 
surrounded only by its thick transparent capsule. These 
Ascaris eggs can be readily distinguished from eggs with 
thin capsules, such as those of A. duodcnalc, not only 
by the thickness of the capsule, but by its more spherical 
shape, and by the granular and unsegmentecl character 
of the egg contents. Unfertilised eggs are larger, more 
oval, and the egg contents contain numerous refractile 
globules, which should not be confused with segmen- 
tation. 

The eggs of Trichocephalus dispar (whip-worms) are 
easily distinguished, as they are small oval eggs contained 
in a thick, deeply stained outer capsule which has an 
opening at each end. Inside this capsule is a thinner, 
unstained capsule, and the egg contents are granular. 
In many instances the openings in the outer capsule are 
seen to be plugged by mucus (fig. 136, &). 

The ovum of Ankylostomum duodcnalc is enclosed in 
a single, thin, transparent, unstained capsule. At the time 
the egg is passed segmentation usually into about four 
segments has taken place (fig. 136, c l , c 2 ), but if the stool 




Fio. 136. a, Ascaris hunbricoides ; l>, Trichocephalus dispar ; c, Oxyuris 
vermicular is ; c { , c-, Aiikylostomum duodenale ; d, Oncosphere of Cestode ; 
e ifi > various Fasciolid<z ; //, Schistosonmm (?) htzinatobnun (from fneces) ; 
/', Schistosoniuni hamalobium (from urine). 



33 EGGS 

be kept a large number of segments will be present 
according to the time and temperature, and in twenty- 
four to forty-eight hours a fairly well-formed embryo will 
be found in many of the egg capsules, and the egg then 
closely resembles that of Oxvuris vennicitlaris. The eggs 
of the closely related Xecator americanns are slightly larger 
but otherwise similar to those of the Ankylostome. 

Oxyuris vermicular is (thread- worm) has an egg that 
in size and general appearance is not unlike the anky- 
lostome but is usually flattened at one side. At the time 
the stool is passed this egg contains a well-formed 
embryo (fig. 136, c). 

The " eggs," or rather oncospheres, of the different species 
of tape-worms may only present slight differences from 
each other, but they are readily distinguished from all 
other ova by the radial striation of the thick capsule and 
the presence of a differentiation in the contents into an 
embryo ; the hooklets of this embryo can usually be made 
out (fig. 136, d). These oncospheres consist of the 
embryo and embryonic capsule only, the outer part of 
the egg has usually disappeared. 

The eggs of the various Fasciolidce (flukes) can be 
recognised by the presence of an operculum or lid 
(fig. 136, e, f, g,), and distinguished from each other by 
their size. The eggs are usually yellow or brown of the 
Trcmatodes found in man. 

Schistosoinum hcematobium has a highly characteristic 
egg, as it is armed with a sharp spike. In eggs passed 
with the faeces, with which they may be mixed, or con- 
tained only in mucus on the surface of the stool, this 
spike is at one side, (fig. 136, li), in urine the spine is 
terminal (fig. 136, /'), and by some it is believed that the 
eggs with a lateral spine are from different species of 
Schistosoma. If water be added to the faeces it will be 
seen that the egg contains a ciliated embryo which soon 
becomes active and bursts through the egg capsule. The 
free-swimming embryo remains alive in water for some 
days, but undergoes little further change. An intermediate 



EGGS AND WORMS 331 

host, perhaps a fresh-water mollusc, is probably necessary 
for its further development. 

Schistosomum japoniciiin. The eggs are passed into the 
intestinal canal higher up than those of S. h&matobium. 
They have no spike, no operculum, and are about the 
same size as the eggs of ankylostomes. They contain 
a formed miracidium when passed. 

MEASUREMENTS OF OVA. 

T. saginata 0*03 to 0*04 mm. by O*O2 to 0*03 mm. 

T. solium (Spherical) 0*03 mm. 

H. nana ... ... ... ,, 0*4 ,, 

D. latus 0*068 to 0-071 mm. by 0*045 mm - (operculated). 

F. hepatica. 0-13 by 0*08 mm. 

F. buski 0*125 ,, 077 ,, 

D. lanceatum 0-04 ,,0*03 ,, 

O. sinensis 0*027 0*016 ,, 

C. heterophyes ... ... 0*03 ,, 0*017 ,, 

[Faragonimus westermani 0*08 to 0*1 mm. by 0^052 to 0*075 mm.] 

G. hominis 0*15 by 0*07 mm. 

A. watsoni 0*12 ,, 0*075 

S. hamatobiuin ... ... 0*08 ,, 0*03 ,, 

S. japonicuni 0*06 to 0*09 ,, by 0*03 to 0*05 mm. 

A. lumbricoides ... ... 0*05 ,, 0*07 ,, ,, 0*04 ,, 0*05 ,, 

O. vermicular is 0*05 by 0*016 ,, to 0*024 mm. 

A.duodenale 0*056 to 0*061 ,, by 0*034 to 0*038 mm. 

N. americanus ... ... 0*064 ,, 0*072 ,, ,, 0*036 mm. 

T. dispar 0*05 ,, 0*054 ,, 0*023 ,. 

The embryo of the Strongy hides intestinalis is fre- 
quently passed with the stools. The embryos of the 
Trichina spiralis are very rarely passed in the stools as 
they normally penetrate the intestinal walls and pass 
into the surrounding tissues. 

In the faeces, thread-worms, segments of tape- worms, 
and occasionally round-worms are passed naturally. 
After the administration of powerful anthelmintics the 
whole tape-worm, round-worms, ankylostomes, flukes, 
,and wtyip-worms may be passed. Some species are never 
found under any circumstances in the faeces. 



33? 



CHAPTER XX. 
INTESTINAL PARASITES. 

THE worms met with in the human intestine and its 
appendages belong to the following classes : 

A. Ccstoda. These flattened worms have a segmented 
body, no digestive tube, and are hermaphroditic. 

B. Trematoda. In these the digestive tube is incom- 
plete ; there is no anus and the body is not segmented. 
They are hermaphroditic except the Schistosoum.- 

C. Xcuiatoda. These usually have a complete diges- 
tive tube. They are cylindrical worms and they are not 
hermaphroditic. 

A. CESTODES. 

The human Cestodcs are : Tirnia solium, T. satfiimld, 
T. coiifnsa, T. africtiiici, Dipylidium uininuin, Hvincno- 
Icpis niuriiui (T. tuuia) and H. diminuta, Dtivuinca 
madagascariensis, Bothrioccphalus hit us, Diplogonoportts 

grand is. 

Cestodcs or Ttipt'-icornis. The embryonic or cystic forms 
of the Tivnin cchinococcits may be found in the liver, 
muscles of man, &c. The definitive host is the dog. 
These cysts, the hydatid cysts, can hardly be mistaken 
for non-parasitic cysts; they can be readily distinguished 
if there is any doubt by the laminated cyst wall and the 
presence of booklets in the cyst or discharges. 

In the case of the t'diinococciis man is the intermediate 
host. A larval form of Bothriocephalus (B. innusoiii) has 
been found in the connective tissues of men in Japan, 
and similar larval forms have been obtained from an 



TAP K- WORMS 



333 



aboriginal of British Guiana and in Central Africa. These 
larvai may he the larval form of a Dibothriofcphalus, hut 
it is not certain. They are classed as a separate genus, 
Sfwrgtrmiui (Stiles). 

The greater number of the tape-worms found in man 
attain sexual maturity in him. Man is therefore the 
definitive host of these worms. 

The general structure of tape-worms should be known, 
and the differences indicated in the tabular statement 
of the well-known human tape-worms will then he 
understood. 

Tape-worms consist of a head or fixed portion attached 
by hooks or suckers, or both, to the intestinal wall. This 
" head " is called the scolex. From this scolex growth 
takes place continuously in one direction ; at first as a 
narrow neck which is not segmented, but which rapidly 
becomes segmented, and as growth continues each seg- 
ment increases in size and becomes sexually mature. 
Each segment is known as a proglottis, and together 
these form the strobila. When sexually mature, the eggs 
are fertilised, and finally the genital organs atrophy and 
the proglottis is reduced to a muscular sac distended by 
a uterus filled with fertilised eggs. These proglottides 
become detached and are passed in the stool. Each 
proglottis is motile and may live for some time after it 
has been passed in the stool. It creeps about discharging 
its eggs. These eggs are taken up by the intermediate 
host, another mammal, a fish or even an insect, and 
develop in that animal into the cystic or larval stage. 
In the case of some of the tape-worms, as in Bothrio- 
cephaluSj a ciliated embryo is formed which swims freely 
in water, and in its intermediate host does not form 
a cyst but an elongated, worm-like larva known as a 
'" plcrocercoid " larva. 

If taken, with food or otherwise, into the intestinal 
tract of man, the cyst is set free and the head becomes 
the scolex of the mature tape-worm. This scolex fixes 
itself to the intestinal wall and gives rise to the pro- 
glottides by growth from it. 



334 STRUCTURE OF TAPE-WORMS 

The tape-worm derives its nutriment by osmosis from 
the intestinal tract. There is no intestine and no trace 
of one. There are water vascular tubes, the water 
vascular system, running the whole length of the worm. 
With this exception, and the nervous system, each seg- 
ment or proglottis is a distinct individual jointed on to 
its predecessor and successor. 

The points in the structure of a proglottis are best 
observed in a half-grown proglottis, as earlier the organs 
are not fully developed and the last segments are merely 
muscular egg-sacs with atrophied organs. 

For permanent specimens the method to be adopted 
is as follows : Stain for twenty-four hours with very 
weak borax carmine ; soak in glycerine for some months. 
Compress between two slides clamped together and place 
in methylated spirit. When partially hardened the 
pressure can be relaxed and the specimen dehydrated 
in alcohol. Clear with oil of cloves and mount in balsam. 
Pressure should be applied to the cover-glass till the 
balsam has hardened. 

The proglottis is covered with a transparent cuticle 
and has a powerful muscular wall with longitudinal and 
transverse or circular bands. In the interior of the seg- 
ment are the organs of generation, male and female, as 
each segment is hermaphroditic. The arrangement of 
these organs varies greatly in different species, but they 
conform to a common type. 

The space between the organs is occupied by paren- 
chymatous tissue in which are often included highly 
refractile calcareous masses which much not be mistaken 
for eggs. 

The male genital organs consist of a number of small 
testes. Minute vasa efferent in unite about the centre of 
the segment into a common vas deferens, this terminates 
in the copulatory organ or cirrhtis, opening with the vagina 
into a genital cloaca. 

The female genital organs consist of the vagina leading 
as a straight tube from the genital cloaca into an enlarge- 



STRUCTURE OF TAPE-WORMS 



335 



ment, the receptaculum seminis ; from this the tube 
is continued to the shell gland, and near it the ovarian 
tube, or tubes, if, as is usual, the ovary is paired, open. 
There is a diverticulum running longitudinally in the 
centre of the proglottis, which at first is simple but later 







w.v.s. 



FlG. 137. a, Testes ; b, vasa efferentia ; c, vas deferens ; d, genital pore ; 
e, vagina;/, receptaculum seminis; , uterus; h, shell gland; z, ovary; 
/, vitellarium or yolk glands ; w.v.s., water vascular system. 

branched the uterus. The continuation of the vagina 
is surrounded by the shell gland and the duct of the 
vitellarium or yolk gland opens into it. 

The spermatozoa pass up the vagina and the eggs 
discharged from the ovaries are fertilised, receive their 
yolk and shell, and are then forced into the longitudinal 



336 



CLASSIFICATION OF TAPE-WORMS 



diverticulum or uterus. As more and more eggs pass 
into the uterus this tube becomes distended and the 
lateral diverticula enlarged, and ultimately the whole 
proglottis is occupied by the uterus distended with ova. 

The projection marking the genital cloaca, into which 
both the male and female organs open, is known as the 
genital pore (fig. 137). 



L 





o 
o 



FIG. 138. a, 7\cnia saginata ; b, Dypilidimn , c, Davainea; d, Hynien 
olepis ; e, Bothriocephalus ; f, Diplogonoporus grandis. 



In examining a tape-worm the points to observe are : 

(1) The size, shape and number of proglottides in the 
worm. 

(2) The size of the scolex and its armature, which may 
be suckers only, or suckers and hooks, and the number 
of these. 

(3) In the proglottides the relative length and breadth 
of the segments, particularly of the mature ones. The 
number of genital pores in each proglottis two in Dip\- 



FLUKES 



337 



I id in in and Diplogonoporus, one in most of the other 
genera. The position of the pore, which is marginal in 
most, but in the mid-ventral line in the middle of the 
broad surface of the proglottis in Bothriocephalus and 
on the flat surface in all the Dibothriocephaloidea, It 
must also be noted if the genital pores in the different 
segments are all on the same side of the worm, as in 
the Davainea, or alternately (frequently irregularly so) 
on opposite sides of the worm, as in Tcenia saginata 
(fig. 138, a). In the ripe proglottides the branching of the 
uterus should be noted and the arrangement of the eggs. 

With proper attention to these points there is little 
difficulty in differentiating between the different species 
of the human Cestodes. 

(4) The number of testes, and the arrangement of the 
eggs in the uterus or in the parenchyma. The presence 
of the second opening, that of the uterus, must be noted 
in the Dibothriocephaloidea. 

It will be seen that the dog is the definitive host of 
several species of the human tape-worms. Of the Dipy- 
lidium the dog is the usual host. Some of the other 
tape- worms of the dog have been found in man. The 
most important cystic Cestode of man, the echinococcus, 
passes its adult stage in the intestine of the dog. It is 
therefore important to have some knowledge of the 
canine tape-worms. The subjoined table by Henry B. 
Ward gives the leading characteristics of the best-known 
of these. 

B. TREMATODES. 

Trematodes, or flukes, are rarely met with in man out- 
side the Tropics and sub-tropical regions. Of the human 
Trematodes one, Pamgonimus westermani (Distoma pnl- 
monalc), is found in the lungs ; others, the Schistosomuni 
hannatobium (Bilharzia hwmatobium] and S. japonicmn, 
occur in the blood-vessels. Other trematodes are present 
in the liver, and the eggs only, which are passed down 
the bile ducts, are found in the faeces and still others 
22 







5: 


a 


>; 






a 

je 


1 


*^ 


S -2 


| 


1 


1 


1 


1 .1 g 


| 


5 

a 


1 
S 


1 


$ ^J |fl >{ 

I I 1 1 

EN Si S, fx, 


^ -5 
^j 

^ i 
K ^ 


| 

1 

5 


Mtsocest 


1 


ex SK ti-g tJ u ju jc tx v > jc 


& i 


: 




: 


^ > O ^ O "7j *2 O .H 'qj ^ 


C w 








&S2 g|~ E'i-3J 12 S 1 


I 








8. iS-J 1-8 a | l^ a | 


aff : 








III sir 2 til 2 III 

^o OT ^ * "~ Si"" OT "^ 


|g 








ri - - M 


jj 








^ V ^ X Y "^ 


4-1 *rt 








s 1 


S* i> g 






; 


J3 *"" e 


x M S 








"o 


-J vo 






: 


1 ^ _'|' g 


1 s 










1- 2 








C i- S *O 


rt 








illl 


~^~ n 








o V2 ex 


w 1 1> jC 








IJji 


|i| ! 








if 11 


ill ! 


1 


V 

o 

E 

3 


8 


55 


s 1 






S 


jjjjji 


S 
M 
D 




1 

"c 


2 
'c 


o 1 c ' 


S) 




<u 


4J 


D-C^ *J K/i 


J 


*2 


5 




| |g| 

3 ' S) i3 


o 
<u 

fi 


O) 

_rt 

3 


ifices on 


pore on 


J 


H 


c 

rt 


k| 

O 


" 


J! 




3 


*rt 

3 


'c 

V 


C 






2 


M 


CO 

^ 




' 




T3 


* 


T!I~~ 




rrt 


1) 




rt 2 So 




a 

3 







T5 C ts ^ 




*^3 


E/5 




S txE S 




S 


si 




EC 




DG 


^ 




"^" r^~~ 




- 


3 




S J 

o - 13 






1 




Ij 






'5 




S 1 " c 


















h 



CLASSIFICATION OF FLUKES 339 

are found in the intestinal tract, so that ordinarily the 
eggs, and after the administration of powerful anthel- 
mintics, like thymol, the adults also of these are passed 
by the rectum. 

The Trematodes include the Fasciolidce, which are 
flattened bodies, of oval shape with pointed ends ; from 
the peculiarity of their shape they are popularly known 
as " flukes." They are hermaphroditic, non-segmented, 
and possess an incomplete intestine. They are armed 
with tw r o suckers placed near each other in most of the 
genera. One of these, the oral sucker, surrounds the 
mouth, the other, the ventral sucker, or acetabulum, is on 
the ventral surface. 






FIG. 139. 

In the Paramphistomidcc the suckers are at opposite 
ends of the body, and they differ in shape from the 
other Trematodes. 

The intestinal system of the Trematodes consists of 
a short muscular pharynx leading from the anterior 
sucker longitudinally. The oesophagus terminates by 
bifurcating into the two caeca which pass round the body 
towards the posterior extremity of the worm. These 
caeca end blindly, but are often sacculated or have 
diverticula. The genital organs are complicated and the 
arrangement varies. In Schistosomidee the male and 
female are distinct, and the female lives in an incomplete 
canal, the gynaecophoric canal in the male. In the other 
Trematodes the male and female organs are contained 
in the same animal, but the openings of each are distinct. 



340 



STRUCTURE OF FLUKES 



The female organs consist of a convoluted uterus open- 
ing externally near the second or ventral sucker in the 
Fasciolidce. This convoluted uterus leads to a dilatation 
surrounded by the " shell gland," and into this the ovarian 




FIG. 140. a, Anterior sucker ; l>, caecum ; c, posterior sucker or acetabulum ; 
d, opening of uterus ; e, yolk glands ; /, vitelline ducts ; g, ootype ; h t ovary ; 
z, compound testicles ; j, vesicula seminalis ; k, penis. 



tube from the single ovary opens, and also the opening 
from the spermatheca. The common vitelline duct formed 
by the junction of the two vitelline ducts which receive 
the yolk from the numerous yolk glands distributed along 
the edges of the animals opens with it. There is a canal 



STRUCTURE OF FLUKES 



341 



leading from the ventral surface to the oviduct known 
as the canal of Laurer, which may serve for the 
entrance of spermatozoa. 

There are two compound testicles which lie one in 
front of the other. 

The ducts, vasa deferentia, from these pass forwards 
and open into a dilatation, the vesicula seminalis, the duct 
from which leads to the penis, which opens externally 
close to the female genital opening (fig. 140). 

The details of the arrangement vary greatly. Fertilisa- 
tion is probably by a different worm. The fertilised 
eggs are passed with the faeces, sputum, urine, &c., of 
definitive the host. 

The structure of Fasciolidcv is best shown as in 
the case of the Cestodes by prolonged immersion in 
glycerine and then passing through alcohol and oil of 
cloves, after staining with weak borax carmine for some 
days. 

In one division of the Trematoda, the Monogenia, the 
eggs develop into a condition suitable for the invasion of 
their definitive host without the intervention of an inter- 
mediate host, and there is no alternation of generations or 
asexual multiplication. From one egg, therefore, one 
sexually mature form is developed. The eggs of the other 
and more important division, Digenia, require for their 
development an intermediate host, and there is alternation 
of generations, asexual multiplication, and from one egg 
several sexual forms may ultimately develop. 

The full life-history of the human Trematodes is not 
known. Of those in lower animals that in Fasciola hepatica 
has been thoroughly worked out. A ciliated embryo is 
formed in the egg and escapes, the miracidium. It then 
passes into a fresh-water snail. In the snail it becomes 
hollowed out, forming a sporocyst. Buds form in the 
interior of this cyst and secondary larvae, redid', are formed. 
These escape into the tissues of the snail, and by a 
further process of internal budding form tertiary larvae or 
cercaria', which have a sucker, and escaping from their 



34 2 CLASSIFICATION OF FLUKES 

host are taken up with grass by their definitive host, the 
sheep. They pass up the bile ducts into the liver of this 
animal and there develop into the sexually mature form. 
The Trematodes found in man belong to four families : 

(1) The Monostomidce, which have only one sucker, are 
represented by the Monostoma lent is, found in the super- 
ficial layer of the crystalline lens on one occasion only. 

(2) The Fasciolidce have two suckers, one terminal and 
the other ventral. Of this family, representatives of six 
genera are found in man. In four of these the ventral 
sucker is near the oral sucker. Dicrocceliutn, in which 
the testicles are in front of the female genital organs ; 
Fasciola, Fasciolopsis, and Opisihorchis, in which the 
testicles are behind the female genital organs, and in these 
the ventral sucker is in the anterior part of the ventral 
surface, not far away from the oral sucker. These three 
genera are separated from each other by the shape of the 
anterior extremity, w r hich is conical in the Fasciola ; by 
the character of the intestinal caeca, which are much 
branched in Fasciola, unbranched but sinuous in Fascio- 
lopsis, and unbranched but nearly straight in Opisthorchis. 
The Fasciolopsis is further distinguished by the great size 
and depth of the acetabulum or ventral sucker, and by 
the conspicuous and long cirrhus. In Fasciola and Op is- 
thoniiis, as well as in Dicroccelium, the ventral suckers are 
about the same size as the oral suckers. In the other two 
genera the ventral is nearly in the middle of the ventral 
surface. CotylogonimUS, in which the genital opening is 
behind the posterior sucker, which is very large, much 
larger than the oral sucker; and Paragonimus, in which 
the genital opening may be median, or right or left of the 
middle line. The ventral sucker is about the same size 
as the oral sucker. 

The Paramphistomidce have two suckers, both terminal, 
one at the one end and the other at the other end of the 
animal (tig. 139). They include two genera, species of 
which are parasitic in man Amphistomum, or Paraphis- 
toinitin, and Gastrodiscus. These genera are distinguished 


















2 












5 




1 






B 

c 










ij 


| 




1 
















|| 






'B 







c 




9 








"S 




(/i 






ei 




o< 






5o'5 


58 




'S 






^ 




* > 






!'! 


>, 




>-, 


.2 




^ 









.9 




U 

s 


.2 

T3 

C 


1 


1 
55 


1 


U 


w 1 


IS 

u 


.2 
5 

c 


1 




03 


: 


S 


g 





; 






; 






1 




a 


a 
















.S 




^ 


c 
















c 


. 


*s 






, 




. 


. 






Wi ' 






* 


fl 




: 






: 






4j W 
























o ^ 




V 


fe 


a 














'H fl* 




^ 




eS 








* 









rt > 






i 


o 

"O 














8-j 

^s 

CAJ 


c 


oil 

<u 
<u 


1 


1" 


c 


a 

rt 


a 


c 
1 


c 

an 




"S 


c 


i 


^ 


"c3 


13 




: 


.1 


c 


g 
.2 


c 
rt 
U 


VS 
U 


c 
rt 
u 


1 


c 
o 







J 


"S 


1 


S 




a 












<<5 


"c 


.s 


33 


.2 


"rt 


rt 


rt 


b 

9 


c3 




Bi 


ft 


"e3 






a 


^-C 








1^ 




s 


c3 


a 




S 


CO 


S 


M 





s 




M 


j 


w 




is much 


* b 

&> 

J2 U 


1 


^3 

11 

t/) CJ 


s 


<0 

u 

3 


WJ 

>, 




1^1 


o >> c 

ll 


j, 


S 


S 2 w 







i 


a 


S 




B'| 


"T I 8 Jd 


1 


The ventral sucl 
the larger 


Anterior sucker 
The two sucke 
near each oth( 


1 

"rt S 

i; to 


Ventral sucke 
smaller than tl 
one 


Ventral sucker : 


1 

| ^ 


Anterior sucker 


d 

i 

1 


Posterior suckei 
larger. The g 
is nearer th 
sucker 


Posterior suckei 
distinct suckei 
but a well-mar 
geal bulb 








a 
















x: 


e 


^ 




a 





fc 


^ 





^ 


fc 


m 


a 


* 


vn 


a 


* 


~ 


" 


*" 





** 


1 




? 


7 


v^ 


i 


r 


^ 


1 


j 


I 








vn 


i 


M 








fO 






00 


** 




N 
















a 


m 




^ 






^ 






^ 


,fl 


a 


" 


*^ 


** 


* 


** 


*^ 


* 




*^ 


M 

S 




\n 


O 


M 


N 


00 












H 


1 


VO 

ro 


CO 


1 


- 


1 


i 


1 
CO 


- 


j, 






S 


i~ 




1 


i 


ti 


K 

5 o 




it 




1 

1 


Fasciolopsis buski 
mum crasstiw) 


Dicrocceliltm lai 
(Distoma lanceoh 


Opislhorch is fdineu 


Opisthorchis noverc 
toma conjunctum 


Opisthorchis sinens i 
toma sinense) 


Cotylogoitinus hett 
(Distoma heteropi 


Paragominus west 
(Distoma ringeri 
monale) 


1 

1 
1 


Amphistomum 
(Cladorchis waist 



344 NEMATODES 

by their external appearance, as in the G astro disci is the 
anterior extremity is conical and appears to arise as a 
projection from the dorsal surface of a flat, rounded mass 
which contains the organs of reproduction. The human 
species is Gastrodiscus hominis. In the Amphistomum or 
Paramphistomum the shape is more or less conical, and 
there is no marked division between the anterior and 
posterior part of the body. The human representative is 
Amphistoinuni watsoni. Shipley considers this to be a 
Cladorchis, as there are pharyngeal pouches which are not 
present in the Paramphistotiia. In both Pamphistoinum 
and Gastrodiscus the opening of the genital pore is in the 
middle of the body and not near the acetabulum. 

Schistosouiidce have two suckers, but the male and female 
organs are in separate animals. 

NEMATODES. 

The Nematodes found in the human intestine are the 
Ascaris luuibricoides, rarely Ascaris mystax } Oxyurls vcnni- 
cularis, Ankylostomum duodcnalc, Nccator aniericuinis, 
Strongylus sttbtilis, Tricliocephalus dispar, Trichina spiralis, 
Strongyloides intestinalis (Angnillula intestinalc}. 

The larger worms are readily found, but some of the 
smaller ones are only to be seen by very careful inspec- 
tion. The Nematodes are liable to shrink, rupture, or 
otherwise become distorted, and are not very easy to 
stain. As a general rule it is best to examine them un- 
stained, and describe them as they appear in the fresh 
condition, mounted in normal saline solution. For per- 
manent specimens fixation in 70 per cent, alcohol just on 
the boil gives good results. The 70 per cent, aqueous 
solution of alcohol should be heated till bubbles begin to 
form, and the living worms dropped into it. The lamp 
should be put out, and the worms left in the fluid. After 
this treatment they may be mounted in glycerine jelly 
without shrinking. 

Ascaris lumbricoides. These are large round-worms. 



ASCARIDES AND OXYUKID^ 



345 



The males are 15 to 17 cm. in length and 2 or 3 mm. 
in breadth. The female is rather larger, 20 to 25 cm. 
long and 5-5 mm. in breadth. These worms are found 
in any part of the intestinal tract and occasionally 
pass through the common duct into the gall-bladder 
or even the biliary ducts. They have been found in 
hepatic abscesses. They may be numerous in the intestine. 
Rarely Asca-ns mystax, a smaller ascaris, with lateral alar 
cuticular appendages on cephalic end of the body, is found 



in man. 



b 



FIG. 141. a, Male ; b, female. 




FIG. 142. a, Male ; b, female. 

Oxyuris vermicularis is a small cylindrical worm which 
tapers towards the tail to a sharp point. The male is 3 to 
5 mm. in length and at the tail is coiled up in a spiral. 
The female, is 9 to 12 mm. in length. This worm is found 
in the whole length of the large intestine and rectum and 
may escape through the anus (fig. 141, a, b). The males 
are found higher up in the alimentary canal than the 
females. 



346 TRICHOCEPHALI AND ANKYLOSTOMA 

Trichocephalus dispar (Whip-worm). The characteristic 
of this worm is a long, thin, anterior portion somewhat 
resembling the lash of a whip. The male is 35 to 45 mm. 
in length, and the female 35 to 50 mm. These worms 
are found commonly in the caecum and also in the 
ascending and transverse colon. They are very rarely 
found in the ileum (fig. 142). 

The Ankylostominn duodcnale is of the greatest import- 
ance. These worms are found in the small intestine 
and may be very numerous. Both males and females 
are found. They fix themselves to the intestinal wall 
and live on epithelium, debris, &c., but not blood. The 
female adult worms are 7 to 15 mm. in length and - 8 mm. 
in breadth. They have a mouth surrounded by a power- 
ful armature consisting of two pairs of curved teeth on the 
posterior wall of the opening and of two triangular plates 
terminating in sharp points anterior to the mouth. The 
intestine is nearly straight and commences as a powerful 
oesophagus. The anus is subterminal in the female. The 
genital opening is posterior to the middle of the body. 

The males are rather smaller in length, 6 to n mm., 
and *5 mm. in breadth ; they have similar mouth-parts. 
The caudal extremity is expanded into a membranous 
fold of the integument divided into four unequal lobes, 
of which the lateral ones on each side are the largest. 
There are two equal spicules which can be protruded 
through the cloaca (fig. 143, m). 

The dorsal lobe is of importance as it differs in the 
character of the supporting rib from that found in Necator 
amcricanns. In the ankylostome it commences as a 
single rib which only bifurcates in the peripheral third 
and finally divides into three minute divisions (fig. 144,^). 

A T . americanus resembles the ankylostome in its habits 
and general characters, but differs in that the two 
pairs of curved teeth are replaced by sharp chitinous 
thickenings, and that in the female the genital pore is 
anterior to the middle line, whilst in the dorsal flap of 
the caudal bursa of the male the supporting rib bifurcates 





FIG. 143. i, f, Male and female Ankylostomes ; a, head of A. duodenale , 
6, head of Necator amcricanus. 



34* 



ANKYLOSTOMUM AND NEGATOR 



near the base, and each of the divisions divides into two 
instead of into three as in the ankylostome. It appears to 
be the indigenous species in Africa and in some parts of 
Asia. 













A B 

FIG. 144. a, a, Head and tail of male A. duodetiak ; b, b, head and tail 
of male N. amcricanus. 

The ankylostome is supposed to gain access to the 
body by the mouth, but it has been shown to be capable 



STRONGYLOIDES INTESTINALIS 349 

in its embryonic form of penetrating the skin, and some 
experiments seem to show the possibility of these em- 
bryonic forms obtaining access to the intestine after 
penetration of the skin. 

The ankylostome eggs hatch quickly, within forty- 
eight hours, and the embryos rapidly increase in size. 
If kept in the faeces they soon die, but if allowed to escape 
into the earth they undergo further development, but do 
not become sexually mature, or reproduce outside the 
body. In their final stages they are enclosed in their old 
larval skin as a sheath and are inactive for long periods. 

Strongyloides intestinalis, Angnillnla infest inalis, or 
Rhabdonema intestinalc. This is a small worm only 
i mm. long and 50 //, in breadth. It is found in the small 
intestine and the male is not known. Only a small 
number of eggs are formed, four or five as a rule. The 
embryos hatch out either whilst still in the adult or when 
discharged into the intestine. The embryos outside the 
body are capable of full development to sexual maturity 
and reproduction. These free-living sexual forms differ 
in all respects from the parasitic sexual forms. They are 
shorter and broader, the oesophagus has a double dilata- 
tion, and the embryos are more numerous. The free- 
living forms must alternate with a parasitic generation 
for the continued existence of the species. 

Trichina spiralis. The adult forms are found only in 
the intestines and intestinal walls of man, pigs, rats, &c. 
They are found only for a period of a few weeks after 
eating flesh in which encysted embryos were present. 
The cysts are dissolved in the stomach, the embryos are 
set free, and in the walls of the human small intestine 
pass through several metamorphoses and become sexually 
mature in a few days. 

The mature worms are just visible with the naked eye. 
The male measures i to 5 mm. in length and '04 mm. in 
breadth. There is a straight intestine with a powerful 
oesophagus. The anus opens into a terminal cloaca into 
which also the vas deferens from the single testicular 



^1 


^ i| 
















Q 


~- Va 









i- 


H 
* 






1 


j 






x ^ 


~| 




s 


ii 






i 


i 




c s 









^ 




3"^ 








^ tS 




c 












V 








" 




O 









.9 










-S 




5 










C 


Is 




1 


..3 






, 


-!| 


i 






! 

^ 


~^| 


4 




-Jl- 




|_ 




\: 



H 


Platyhelmint 


N=S _^ 

P 


1 

s 




-1 . 


\ 

Necator 

u 




"*i ^ ^ ^ 


PH 








s 




^* ^ **; ^ 






^ 


, 


3 




^o **"' cX ^ 






^ 


S S 







.* -U 








II 






-if ^ 






|j 


" ^ 






^ "* ^ i 






^ 1 


5- 




1 


^-s 







ta 






1 


5 




-S 


| 


2 





53 5 


~~ S; 




5 


K 




i'S 


| 


| 


^ 


i 

u 




<a a 


1 

U 




g 






2'i 




5 


1 






So 




| 


O 






, -s 










_g 


'^ 




^ 


'j^ 




r^ 


Qi <i 









^ _ 


* 






^ 


1 


-|| 




| 


^ 


1 


.J 




-l|- 


-} 


fc 


~I| 










' 




i ^ 


-Ii 


3 


's 


M 


c 


00 




S 


fe 


O 



TRICHINA SPIKALIS 



351 



tube opens. There are two digitiform appendages, one 
on each side of the cloaca, which serve as copulatory 
organs. 

The female is larger, 3 to 4 mm. in length and '06 mm. 
in breadth. There is a single ovarian tube, which is 
continued into a widely dilated portion, the uterus, from 
which a narrow tube leads to the genital opening, which 
is situated about the junction of the anterior fourth with 
the rest of the body. 

The embryos are passed alive, but do not appear in 
the faeces as they pass through the intestinal wall, and 
finally reach the muscles and there become encysted. 
They may become encysted in the intestinal walls. 

Man can therefore be both the intermediate and 
definitive host, but many other animals harbour the 
parasites, particularly pigs and rats. It is from badly 
cooked pork that man usually becomes infected. Pigs 
are probably more frequently infected from rats. 

To find the adults the intestinal contents of the upper 
part of the small intestine should be examined with a 
low power. They may be found by examination with a 
simple lens, but are easily overlooked. The mucosa 
must also be scraped off and examined as the worms 
soon penetrate into it. The encysted embryos are seen 
as white specks in the muscles, and are most numerous 
towards the insertion of the muscle. They may be found 
in fat and other tissues, but are less easily seen in such 
situations. 

Examination of the intestinal contents for small worms 
is facilitated by dilution of the stool with normal saline 
solution. The mixture can be well shaken, and the 
worms if viewed against a black background are more 
readily seen. With small animals the unopened intes- 
tines may be cut into lengths of an inch or two, and by 
scraping on the flattened intestine in one direction the 
contents and parts of the mucous membrane are pressed 
out of the intestine, and in this expressed substance 
worms may be found. The portion of the intestine can 



352 PROTOZOA 

then be slit open and placed between two slides and 
examined for encysted worms. If too opaque it may 
be placed in weak sodium hydrate solution, which will 
in a minute or two render it transparent, and the worms 
will be more readily seen. 

PROTOZOA. 

Protozoa belonging to various orders are found in the 
stools. Of these the Amccba colt, a large amoeba which 
is passed with the mucus and in the faeces in many 
chronic and recurrent dysenteries, is of the most import- 
ance. Some observers state that it is found in normal 
stools, and it is certainly found in stools of patients who 
do not complain of either diarrhoea or dysentery. In a 
large proportion of these cases it will be found that 
mucus is passed with each stool, and in some ulceration 
of the colon has been present and found on post-mortem 
examination. In other cases amoebae are found in persons 
apparently healthy. 

In a fresh stool the diagnosis is easy, particularly in a 
warm tropical country, or where a hot stage is used. The 
large cells with active amoeboid movement often con- 
taining in their interior red corpuscles vacuoles, permit 
of no mistake. If the stool has been some time passed, 
allowed to cool or treated with antiseptics, diagnosis is 
less easy, as the amoebae, when they die, become globular, 
and are not easily distinguished from other large cells 
in the mucus. If they contain blood corpuscles or other 
substances taken as food, they can be more readily 
recognised. They stain well with any basic stain, but 
there is no satisfactory differential stain. For the study 
of stained specimens smears of the faeces or mucus 
should be fixed whilst still wet by placing them in a 
saturated solution of perchloride of mercury for ten 
minutes. They are then well washed in running water 
and dried, and can be stained by the iron alum haema- 
toxylin or with borax carmin. 

The life-history of the amoeba is not fully confirmed 






AMCEBA 



353 



Multiplication may be asexual by simple fission. This 
occurs in the intestine and in hepatic abscesses. Under 
certain conditions an amoeba will become encysted, and 
the contents then divide into two or four young amoebae. 




Asexual multiplication by simple division of nucleus and cytoplasm. 




FIG. 145. Scheme of Development of Amoeba. Multiplication in 
encysted forms (autogamous.) ? sexual multiplication. The early stages 
of division of the nucleus (ad) and conjugation of the divided nuclei 
in pairs (e), followed by further division of these products of conjugation, 
first into two and then into four each (/ z). The thick wall of the cyst 
in the later stages indicates the hardening of the cyst wall during the 
stages when the cysts are outside the body. 



These encysted forms are resistant, and retain their vitality 
outside the body. They are probably the important 
agents in the propagation of the parasite. The patho- 
genic properties are disputed by some. In the most 

23 



354 ENTAMCEBA HYSTOLYTICA 

severe cases of dysentery the Amoeba coll is not found, 
and it is usually absent in epidemic dysentery. It is 
most frequently found in relapsing or recurrent dysentery. 

Amoebae are found in the pus of hepatic abscesses. 
They are very difficult to find in the pus discharged at 
first. If the pus be examined three or four days after the 
abscess is opened they are usually readily found. 

Schaudinn differentiates two distinct species of Amoeba 
in the human intestine. The one, the Amoeba coli, may 
be present in the intestines of healthy persons, and does 
not invade the tissues or pass into other organs in the 
body. The other, which he named Entamccba histolytica, 
does invade the tissues of the alimentary canal, and 
may pass to various parts of the body, liver, &c. The 
morphological differences in the amoeba as seen in the 
stool are slight. In the Amoeba coli the ectosarc is not 
clearly differentiated from the endosarc when the amoeba 
is at rest. The pseudopodia are formed from both 
ectosarc and endosarc. The nucleus is large and rich 
in chromatin. Development is as described for the type 
in main essentials. 

Entamceba histolytica has a small nucleus poor in 
chromatin and placed eccentrically. In the resting 
amoeba the ectosarc is clearly defined and pseudopodia 
are formed from the ectosarc only. The development 
also differs. Multiplication may take place (i) by simple 
fission, as in Amoeba coli; (2) by irregular gemination, 
the number of young amoebae formed being indefinite ; 
or (3) autogamy, in which the nucleus breaks up into 
a number of chromidia which are diffused through the 
protoplasm. Secondary nuclei then form at the periphery 
from which spores are produced. These are surrounded 
by a yellowish cyst wall and are the resistant forms. 

In this amceba, therefore, the resistant encysted forms 
are young spores, whilst in Amceba coli it is the mature 
form which is encysted and the spores are formed inside 
the cyst. 

Coccidia are said to have been found in human faeces. 



CERCOMONAS 



355 



Various flagellated organisms have been described in 
the stools. The most important is Cercomonas homiuis 
(tig. 146). It is a small round body with one or two long 
flagella. It is rarely found in healthy stools but may be 
common in some cases of diarrhoea. 




FIG. 146. 




FIG. 147. 

Flagellated organisms have also been found in the 
mouth and in abscesses in connection with mouth cavity. 

Spirochaetae are also found in the stools and are 
common in some cases of dysentery. 



356 INFUSORIA 

Infusoria are found in some cases of diarrhoea ; the 
best known resemble a large Paramcecium Balantidium 
coli. It measures 65 to 85 //, in length. It may be found 
in very large numbers in the stools, and in such cases 
it may also be found in the intestinal walls and even in 
the blood-vessels ; it has been found in the pus of an 
abscess of the liver. It is probably pathogenic. It is 
a parasite found very commonly in the intestines of pigs 

( fi g- 147)- 

Vegetable micro-organisms abound. Many of these 
belong to the coli group and include organisms which 
are harmless and others which are pathogenic. Many 
of the organisms, as, for instance, the Bacillus coli corn- 
munis, though harmless to persons in good health as long 
as they are contained in the alimentary canal, can, under 
certain circumstances, invade the tissues and then become 
actively pathogenic and in some cases pyogenic. The 
intestinal mucosa possess considerable power of resistance 
even to many decidedly pathogenic organisms, and conse- 
quently attempts at infection by the imbibition of cultures, 
&c., often fails. 

Impaired resistance due to bad health, malnutrition, 
combined with enhanced virulence of an organism, is 
necessary in many cases for even pathogenic organisms 
to cause disease. 

The isolation and identification of pathogenic and non- 
pathogenic organisms in the alimentary canal is a matter 
of considerable difficulty and complexity on account of 
the large number of organisms and species of organisms 
usually present. 



357 



CHAPTER XXI. 
URINE. 

IT is not proposed to consider the ordinary tests 
for the abnormal constituents of urine, such as albumen, 
sugar, and the like, but only a few special points in con- 
nection with the examination of urine in the Tropics. 

Blood is found under special circumstances as a result 
of parasitic invasions by Filaria nocturna and Schisto- 
somum hcematobium (bilharzia) respectively, and there is 
at least one form of tropical haemoglobinuria black- 
water fever. 

Hccmaiuria can be easily distinguished from haemo- 
globinuria by the presence of red corpuscles in the deposit. 
In many cases it is easily distinguished with the naked 
eye, as the superjacent fluid may not be coloured with 
blood in haematuria. If coloured with blood it is cloudy 
and not a clear and transparent red as is the solution of 
haemoglobin in haemoglobinuria. 

In haematuria from bilharzia infection the bulk of the 
urine is often free from blood, but if the patient, after 
apparently emptying the bladder strains, the last few 
drops may be found to contain blood or mucus, and in 
this blood or mucus the characteristic ovum with its 
terminal spike and the contained ciliated embryo will be 
found. In all suspected cases it is therefore necessary for 
the patient to strain, and the few drops so passed are the 
most important for examination. 

Schistosoma have been found not only throughout 
Africa, in Arabia and Cyprus, but also in some of the 
smaller West Indian Islands, and it is therefore possible 



358 H^MATURIA 

that bilharziosis may become a more widely diffused 
disease than is at present the case. 

In some of the places, as in the West Indies, it is reported 
that the Schistosoma eggs are found only in the faeces, 
and that haematuria does not occur. It is believed by 
some that the eggs passed per rectum belong to a different 
undescribed Schistos'omum. 

In most cases of bilharziosis there will be a history of 
occasional attacks of haematuria. In these cases, by 
finding the ova in the last few drops of urine expressed 
from the bladder, the causation of the disease can be 
determined. 

Haematuria from filariasis is rarely an admixture of 
blood only. More often chyle is also present and 
frequently chyle occurs without any admixture with blood 
(chyluria). Coagulation of the chyle and blood fre- 
quently takes place, so that clots of blood-stained sub- 
stance, or of pure blood, are formed, or the whole mass 
may set as a pinkish jelly. 

The embryos of the Filaria nocturna may be found 
in the urine, but are more abundant in the blood. If 
scanty any small masses of blood or filaments of thread 
should be examined as the filariae often adhere to them. 
Some authors advise filtering the urine, and in the last 
few drops left in the filter the embryos will be found. 
There is no periodicity in the appearance of the filaria in 
the urine. If filariae are not found in the urine they may 
be found in the peripheral blood of the patient if the 
examination be made at night. 

Haematuria may also result from other causes, such as 
calculus, malignant disease, but those are not limited to 
the Tropics. 

Hcvmoglobiunria, or the passage of urine coloured with 
dissolved haemoglobin, is the characteristic of " black- 
water fever." Cases of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria 
would, no doubt, if they occurred in an endemic area, 
be mistaken for blackwater fever. Hasmoglobinuria is 
met with in Africa as a common disease, in some places 



H^MOGLOBINURIA 359 

10 per cent, of the most susceptible portion of the popu- 
lation (European) are attacked annually, or one-quarter 
of that proportion of the less susceptible Asiatics. In 
some parts of India a fair number of cases are met with, 
but only in smalt proportions as compared with Africa. 
Cases are reported from other malarial countries, South 
America, West Indies, Malaya, South of Europe, &c., 
but the disease is rare in those countries. 

The urine when first passed is clear and, when diluted 
sufficiently, is transparent, but as it cools, and particu- 
larly when it becomes alkaline, a thick deposit is thrown 
down. The greater the dilution required to render the 
urine transparent the more concentrated is the haemo- 
globin solution in the urine, and the larger the amount of 
the haemoglobin the more severe and protracted will be 
the attack. 

Rate of Secretion. In this and also in yellow fever the 
rate of secretion of the urine is a matter of great import- 
ance, as if the urine is much diminished the prognosis 
is grave and active measures are urgently required. The 
times of micturition and the amount passed each time 
must be observed, and the amount of urine passed at 
each micturition, divided by the number of hours that 
have elapsed since the previous micturition, will give the 
rate of excretion per hour during that period. Any fall 
in this rate is an important warning. If suppression is 
once established recovery will not take place in either 
disease. 

Bile in the urine may occur in some cases of malaria 
as a transient phenomenon. The persistent presence of 
bile in an acute attack of malaria is a rare but a serious 
and frequently fatal complication. 

Bile is met with in the urine, frequently in relapsing 
fever, and is not very rare in lobar pneumonia. 

There are cases of jaundice occurring in the Tropics, 
associated with high fever, which are neither yellow fever 
nor malaria. These require investigation. Nothing is 
known of the true nature of these diseases. Possibly 
some of them are cases of Weil's disease. 



360 INDICAN 

Haemoglobinuric urine can be distinguished from 
bilious urine by dilution, when the red colour of the 
haemoglobin is seen. By shaking the urine and noting 
the pink tinge of the froth as compared to the yellow 
tinge of the froth of bilious urine, the distinction is 
readily made. 

The most satisfactory method for diagnostic purposes 
is the use of a spectroscope, when the haemoglobin bands 
will be clearly seen (vide Table of Spectra). In some of 
the cases all through, and in others at onset and end of 
an attack, methaemoglobin is passed alone. Such urine 
is a brownish colour and can only be distinguished by 
the spectroscope (spectra 4 and 5). There is reason to 
believe that many mild cases of blackwater fever are 
overlooked as the urine contains only this methaemo- 
globin. In this disease casts are often present in 
large numbers ; the casts are granular, do not often 
include epithelial cells, but generally contain granules 
of bright yellow pigment derived from the haemo- 
globin. Such casts are found for weeks after an attack 
of blackwater fever, though the urine is free from 
albumen. 

It is important to be able, in watching a case, to form 
an estimate of the variations in the amount of haemo- 
globin present. This is readily done if the first urine be 
diluted in the test tube to a convenient known extent. 
This is the standard, and the other urines found are 
similarly diluted if necessary till they match the standard. 

Indican is very commonly present in the urine of 
patients in the Tropics, usually in cases of intestinal 
disorder. It is best detected by conversion into indigo 
blue. The simplest method is to place a crystal of 
potassium chlorate on the bottom of a tube and cover 
this crystal with the urine. Strong hydrochloric acid 
is allowed to run down to the crystal without mixing 
with the urine. A blue ring forms at the point of 
junction of the two fluids if indican be present. 

Nitric Acid Test. Strong nitric acid added so as to 



BACTERIA 



3 6l 



form a layer below the urine will lead to the formation 
of a red colour at the junction of the fluids. If little 
indican is present this colour will appear in five to 
ten minutes; if a considerable amount it will appear 
at once, and if greatly in excess will be almost black. 

Bacteria are frequently met with in the urine. Of the 
pathogenic organisms, the warnings which will be given 
as to the danger of confusing the smegma bacillus with 
tubercle must be borne in mind. The typhoid bacillus 
may be found in the urine for prolonged periods after 
recovery from the disease; and so may that of Malta fever. 
Flakes of pus or muco-pus require careful bacteriological 
examination. Often they are the remnants of a gonor- 
rhceal infection and the gonococcus may be found 
abundantly. Sometimes they are due to tuberculosis. 
In all such examinations the urine first passed in the 
morning should be examined, as such discharges accumu- 
late during the night. The urine should be divided into 
three parts : that first passed contains the washings 
of the urethra. The great mass of the urine which will 
contain with little admixture substances derived from 
the kidneys and ureters, and lastly that passed after 
forcible expression of the last few drops which will 
contain discharges from the wall of the bladder and 
from prostatic crypts. 

The bacteriology of the urine in the Tropics has 
received little attention. 

It is well to remember that urine can be used as a 
medium for the growth of organisms. That passed about 
two hours after a meal is the best, as it is not too acid. 
B. typhosus and many others grow fairly well. It requires 
boiling, filtering, sterilisation, and can be used either as 
a fluid medium, or by the addition of gelatine or agar 
made into a solid medium. 

Some of the diseases in the Tropics are attended with 
deviations from normal in the metabolic and catabolic 
processes indicated to some extent by changes in the 
urine. The diminution in the amount of urea in beri- 
beri cases is an instance in point. 



362 HEWLETT'S BODIES 

Other changes have been noticed in the urine of beri- 
beri patients and deserve close investigation. Hewlett 
has noted that casts, usually hyaline, but sometimes 
granular, can always be found in centrifugalised urine, 
and in addition that peculiar retractile bodies are present. 
These he describes as of three classes : (i) Small forms 
one-third to one-half the diameter of a red corpuscle, 
very refractile and apparently having a thick capsule with 
hyaline contents; (2) larger forms, 12 to 20 //,, spherical in 
shape, and containing refractile granules, and appearing to 
contain also what may or may not be a nuclear body ; 
(3) occasional very large bodies, 30 yu,in diameter, contain- 
ing fine granules and a distinct nucleus with nucleolus. 

These cannot be dried, fixed and stained, but in 
normal saline in hanging drop preparations they stain 
neutral red, methylene blue and methyl green, but much 
less deeply than epithelial cells or leucocytes. 

None of these bodies stain with osmic acid or with 
Sudan III., and therefore they cannot be fat. They may 
by myelin bodies. They are not found in normal urine 
or in that of persons with nephritis. 

Hewlett suggests that they may be the result of 
peculiar degenerative changes in cells, or possibly are 
protozoa. 

Diazo-rcaciion is a reaction which is constant in 
typhoid fever. The reaction may occur in other diseases, 
notably miliary tuberculosis, measles, scarlet fever and 
erysipelas, usually in severe cases of these diseases. The 
reaction is usually to be obtained about the fourth to 
seventh day in enteric fever, and though not conclusive as 
a test it is an important aid in the diagnosis of obscure 
forms of continued fever. 

Two solutions are required for the test : 

Solution i. 

Sulphanilic acid 2 grammes. 

Hydrochloric acid ... ... 50 cc. 

Distilled water 1,000 cc. 



DIAZO-REACTION 363 

Solution 2. 

Sodium nitrite 0-5 gramme. 

Distilled water ... ... ... roo cc. 

One part of solution No. 2 is added to fifty parts of 
solution No. i,and mixed with an equal quantity of urine 
in a test tube. This mixture is then rendered strongly 
alkaline by ammonia. 

If the reaction is positive the mixture becomes 
carmine-red in colour, and if the test tube is shaken this 
colour is seen in the foam. If the colour does not appear 
in the foam the reaction is negative. 

Pancreatic Reaction. The fresh urine must be acid and 
free from albumen, or, if alkaline, made acid with hydro- 
chloric acid. To 20 c.cm. of the clear well-filtered urine 
i c.cm. of strong hydrochloric acid is added. The 
mixture is boiled gently in a sand-bath for twenty minutes. 
The flask is cooled in a stream of water rapidly and the 
contents are made up to 20 c.cm. with cold distilled 
water. The excess of acid is neutralised by adding slowly 
4 grammes of carbonate of lead. The contents of the flask 
when cooled are filtered till a clear filtrate is obtained. If 
sugar is present it must now be removed by fermentation. 
The filtrate is well shaken with 4 grammes of tribasic acetate 
of lead, and again the mixture is repeatedly filtered till the 
filtrate is quite clear. 

This filtrate is shaken up with 2 grammes of sulphate of 
soda to precipitate the lead and the mixture is again boiled, 
cooled and filtered ; 7 cc. of the clear filtrate is made up to 
1 8 cc. with distilled water, and to this is added 0*8 grammes 
phenylhydrazin hydrochlorate, 2 grammes of powdered 
sodium acetate, and i cc. of 50 per cent, acetic acid. This 
mixture is boiled for ten minutes, filtered whilst hot and 
diluted, if necessary, up to 15 cc. with hot distilled water. 

If the " pancreatic reaction " is present a light yellow 
flocculent precipitate will form in a few hours. This 
precipitate, when examined microscopically, will be seen 



364 PANCREATIC REACTION 

to consist of long, light yellow, flexible, hair-like crystals, 
arranged in sheaves. Sulphuric acid 33 per cent, causes 
these crystals to melt and disappear in ten to fifteen 
seconds. 

According to Cammidge, from whom this method is 
abstracted, a positive reaction is indicative of pancreatic 
disease. 



365 



CHAPTER XXII. 
BACTERIOLOGY. 

THE pathogenic micro-organisms with vegetable char- 
acteristics are less generally studied in the Tropics than 
elsewhere. Much of the easier work could be done 
without complicated apparatus or any great difficulty. 

The methods now employed in British laboratories 
require too much apparatus and are too complicated to 
be used by a private worker in the Tropics, and only the 
simpler methods which are at his disposal are considered 
here. This account of the methods which can be used 
is therefore intended only for those obliged to use primi- 
tive methods and makeshifts. 

For the isolation and cultivation of vegetable micro- 
organisms artificial media are necessary, and the basis 
of the standard media is nutrient broth. There is much 
difficulty attending the making of nutrient broth from 
meat in the Tropics, but meat extracts, particularly 
Bovril or Liebig's, make an efficient substitute. In 
broth prepared from either of these, the organisms that 
will grow in nutrient broth made from meat will grow 
fairly well. 

An iron enamelled jug, measures, scales and weights, 
a glass rod, a funnel, and ordinary filter paper or white 
blotting paper is all the apparatus required. Bovril 
peptone, and common salt and water are the substances 
needed, and litmus paper, or better, phenolphthalein, 
which is required for the neutralisation of the broth 
when made, as well as a carbonate of soda or sodium 
hydrate solution. 



366 NUTRIENT BROTH 

Xittriciif Broth. To make the broth : Take 1,000 
cc. or i litre of water ; then take 5 grammes each of 
Bovril (or Liebig) and salt, and 10 grammes of peptone 
(Wittes' if usually used). Mix the peptone with about 
25 cc. of the water and stir it well so as to form a 
kind of emulsion ; then to this add the remainder of 
the water and the salt and Bovril. The Bovril can be 
conveniently weighed in a watch-glass, or if Liebeg is 
preferred, this can be spread with a spatula on a piece 
of filter paper, and the watch-glass with the Bovril in 
it, or the filter paper with the Liebig's Extract on it, 
can be placed in the water with the other ingredients. 
The whole should now be boiled for a quarter of an 
hour and well stirred to ensure thorough solution. It 
is now ready for neutralisation. When made with 
Liebig the broth will be much too acid to get good 
growths, and with Bovril, though much less acid, may be 
too acid to be quite satisfactory. Moreover, the degree 
of acidity of different specimens varies. 

Neutralisation. Litmus paper can be used in an 
emergency to determine the reaction of the broth, but 
is unsatisfactory, as many of the organic acids do not 
affect litmus paper, and the dibasic sodium phosphates 
act on litmus paper as an alkali. Many specimens of 
broth also have a double reaction, turning red litmus 
paper blue and blue litmus paper red, so as to leave 
the point of neutralisation uncertain. 

Where possible phenolphthalein should be used. A '5 
per cent, solution of phenolphthalein in spirit is the 
indicator. This solution is colourless when acid or 
neutral, but turns a deep magenta colour with any free 
alkali. 

Carbonic acid should be expelled from a measured 
quantity of the broth, say 25 cc. by boiling ; to this broth 
a few drops of the phenolphthalein should be added, and 
then drop by drop the alkaline solution, till the broth 
turns a flesh or faint pink colour, indicating that the 
alkali is completely neutralised. The amount of alkaline 



NEUTRALISATION 



367 



solution has been measured, and as there are 975 cc. of 
broth left the amount required for the neutralisation 
of the 25 cc. multiplied by -y/- =, 39 will give the amount 
of the alkaline solution required for the neutralisation of 
the remainder of the broth. 

It is to be noted that to exactly neutralise the broth 
it is of no importance what the strength of the alkaline 
solution may be. 

A neutral broth so prepared will serve for the growth 
of most organisms, but the best growths are obtained 
with a broth slightly acid to phenolphthalein. If it be 
desired to use a less or more alkaline broth it is necessary 
to have an alkaline solution of known strength. 

The solutions used are the so-called " normal solutions." 
A normal solution is a solution of the " equivalent " 
weight in grammes of the substance dissolved in a litre 
of distilled water. If the metal of the salt be monovalent, 
i.e., if it is replaceable in a compound by one atom of 
hydrogen, the " equivalent" weight is the molecular 
weight in grammes. If the metal be bivalent, i.e., if it 
requires two atoms of hydrogen to replace it in a 
compound, the equivalent weight is half the molecular 
weight in grammes. A decinormal solution is one-tenth 
of that strength or one-tenth of the equivalent weight 
in grammes dissolved in a litre of water. A centinormal 
solution is one-hundredth of the same weight dissolved 
in a litre ; whilst a dekanormal solution is ten times 
as strong as the normal, or ten times the weight dis- 
solved in a litre. For instance, the equivalent weight of 
sodium hydrate, NaOH, is 23 + 16 -f- i = 40, of 
sulphuric acid, H 2 SO 4 , as it neutralises two molecules 
of sodium hydrate, is i (2 + 32 + 64) or ^j- = 49. A 
normal solution is represented by J, a decinormal by ~ 
a centinormal by ^. A normal solution of sodium 
hydrate therefore is 40 grammes dissolved in water and 
diluted to 1,000 cc., whilst a normal solution of sulphuric 
acid will be 49 grammes diluted to 1,000 cc. 

A neutral broth is one which is neutral when tested 



368 NEUTRALISATION 

hot with phenolphthalein ; such a broth is usually alkaline 
when tested by that uncertain standard litmus paper. 
The degree of alkalinity of a broth is measured by the 
number of cc. of normal alkaline solution added per 
1,000 cc. of broth over and above that required for 
neutralisation. The minus sign is used to indicate the 
alkalinity, so that 4 would indicate that 4 cc. of a 
solution ^ of alkali had been added to 1,000 litres of the 
broth in excess of the amount required for neutralisation. 

If the broth used is still acid as tested by phenolph- 
thalein, that is indicated by the plus sign +. A broth 
described as + 10 would still require the addition of 
10 cc. of solution of alkali per litre for neutralisation. 
Many specimens of Bovril broth, without neutralisations, 
are not more acid than this, and -f 10 is a favourite 
reaction for the growths of many organisms. 

This question of neutralisation and of uniformity of 
reaction is a simple but important matter. The degree 
of alkalinity or otherwise of the media affects the 
properties of growths so materially that it is necessary 
to be particular on the point, but for mere growth of 
most organisms a broth neutral to phenolphthalein will 
suffice. 

After neutralisation or procuring the required degree of 
alkalinity or acidity to phenolphthalein, the broth should 
be boiled and kept at the temperature of boiling water 
for half an hour. It should then be allowed to cool, 
as it is not till it is cold that the mass of the phosphates 
will be precipitated. It is then, whilst cold, to be filtered 
through ordinary white filter paper. The broth is now 
prepared, but in the course of the preparation many 
organisms will have gained access to it from air, vessels, 
&c v and if left as it is these would multiply. Sterilisa- 
tion is therefore necessary. This can either be done in 
bulk or the broth can be decanted into a series of test 
tubes in quantities suitable for use. 

The procedure differs little in the two cases. If it be 
desired to keep the broth in bulk it should be poured 



STERILISATION 



369 



into a clean narrow-necked vessel (Erlenmeyer flask, 
fig. 148), which will stand heat, and the mouth of this 
vessel plugged tightly with cotton-wool. If it is to be 
divided, some 10 cc. should be poured into each of a 
series of clean test tubes and the mouth of each should 
be plugged with cotton-wool. It is better to sterilise, 
by dry heat, the flask or the tubes and wool before 
pouring' in the broth. This is not absolutely essential, 
as the tubes, wool, and broth contained in the tubes 
can all be sterilised together, but is advisable. 




FIG. 148. 

For sterilisation a single boiling does not suffice, as 
spores are only slowly killed at the temperature of boiling 
water. 

Sterilisation. To sterilise, the broth and the vessels 
containing it should be maintained at the temperature 
of boiling water for at least half an hour on three 
consecutive days and allowed to cool in between. This 
intermittent method allows the spores which have 
escaped the first sterilisation to develop into the less 
resistant organisms before the second heating, which 
then destroys them. The third sterilisation, which is 
not always absolutely necessary, is a precaution in case 
any spores or organisms have escaped from the two 
previous sterilisations. 

Storing Media. The broth when cool is ready for 

24 



370 VARIOUS MEDIA 

.use and can be kept till required. The tubes, wool, and 
broth are all sterile and remain so for a considerable 
period. Organisms can only gain access to the broth 
by growing through the wool. This does not take place 
through dry wool, but in moist, warm climates, such as 
are met with in the Tropics, the wool gets damp and 
growth through it takes place. 

In such climates it is advisable as a routine every 
week to heat the end of the test tube containing the 
cotton-wool so as to ensure the wool being dry and 
to kill any organisms that have grown in it. Unless this 
precaution is taken the tubes soon become contaminated. 

The number of organisms falling on to the cotton- 
wool can be greatly reduced by covering the top of the 
tube with an inverted paper cone, such as a folded filter 
paper. This measure would delay the contamination of 
wool even in the Tropics. 

Glycerine Broth, &c. For many purposes additions 
are made to the nutrient broth. These additions must 
be made before neutralisation and sterilisation ; if made 
after, the sterilisations will require to be repeated. 

Glycerine broth is made by the addition of 6 per cent, 
of glycerine. Glucose, lactose, maltose or saccharose, 
added in the proportion of 2 per cent, to the broth, 
make glucose broth, lactose broth, &c., respectively. 

Solid Media. The broth is mixed with gelatine or 
agar-agar in sufficient proportion for the solution to set 
when cooled to the temperatures at which it is desired 
to study the growths. 

Nutrient Gelatine. The gelatine medium is made by 
the addition of 9 to 12 per cent, of the best French 
gelatine to the crude broth. Broth that has been 
neutralised and filtered can be used, but it is waste of 
time, as neutralisation will have to be repeated. Gelatine 
is always acid. 

After the gelatine has been added in the required 
proportion keep in the steamer for half an hour ; neu- 
tralise, render alkaline or leave acid to the required 



SOLID MEDIA 



371 



extent. Allow to cool to 60 C. or less as long as the 
gelatine remains fluid. 

Whip up the white of an egg for each 500 cc. of the 
gelatine broth and mix well with the rest of the medium. 
Steam for half an hour. The white of the egg diffused 
through the medium will coagulate, and in its coagula- 
tion will carry down many of the impurities of the 
gelatine. Filter whilst hot through a coarse filter paper 
Chardin's which should be moistened with hot water. 
Store in flasks or decant into test tubes as required. 
Sterilise as with nutrient broth for half an hour on three 
consecutive days. This medium is known as nutrient 
gelatine, or simply "gelatine." 

Glucose, &c., &c., can be added to it if required, the 
addition being made preferably before neutralisation and 
always before sterilisation. Too prolonged heating causes 
hydrolytic changes in the gelatine so that it will not set. 
Extra sterilisations must be avoided where possible on 
this account. 

Nutrient Agar. Agar or nutrient agar is made in a 
similar manner ; 1-5 to 2 per cent, of the powdered agar 
is added instead of the gelatine. It is much more 
difficult to filter, and where the necessary time cannot 
be given, a passable substitute is to allow it to cool slowly 
so as to permit the coagulated egg albumen and other 
precipitates to settle to the bottom. When cold the 
mass can be removed from the vessel and the lower part 
containing the great mass of the impurities cut off. The 
residue, though much inferior in appearance to the 
filtered product, is sufficiently clear to be translucent 
and can be satisfactorily used without filtration for 
cultures. 

The clearer filtered product is better. To filter it is 
necessary that the filter paper should be kept hot. This 
is best effected by placing the funnel, filter paper, and 
receptacle in the steam steriliser and allowing the filtra- 
tion to take place in the steam steriliser. 

Filtration of these media is facilitated by folding the 



37 2 SEPARATION OF ORGANISMS 

filter paper so as to have a large number of angles and 
very little of the paper in contact with the glass. These 
papers can be bought ready folded or can be folded 
before use. 

Addition of glucose, &c., can be made as in the case 
of other media before neutralisation and filtration. 

The solid media are essential for the separation of 
the various organisms usually present in the animal 
tissues, discharges, or other substances to be examined. 

Separation of Organisms. The method of procedure 
is based on the principle ' that by successive dilutions 
of a minute quantity of the substance to be examined 
the individual organisms will be so scantily distributed 
through the medium that they will be separated from 
each other by an interval appreciable to the eye. If 
this medium be then allowed to become solid the or- 
ganisms will remain well separated from each other, 
and if kept under conditions favourable for their growth 
will multiply and form in the course of a few days 
" colonies " which will be visible to the naked eye. 
From these colonies sub-cultures can be made, and the 
colonies may also be examined directly. 

A piece of platinum wire, 3 to 4 inches in length, is 
inserted into the fused end of a glass rod, and a small 
loop is made at the other, the free end, of the platinum 
wire. This wire is sterilised by heating in the flame, 
and a loopful of the substance to be examined is taken 
up by this loop. 

A tube containing the gelatine medium melted by 
placing in hot water is then inoculated with this loopful 
and the tube is rolled between the hands to secure uni- 
form admixture. 

The amount of the substance is thus diluted by the 
amount of the fluid gelatine. 

After sterilising the needle a loopful from this tube 
is inoculated into a second tube and will again be diluted 
to the same extent. A third tube is treated in the same 
manner and the dilution will now be extreme. 






PLATING 373 

In other words, provided the mixing is thorough the 
organisms will be so much diluted by these successive 
dilutions that they will be separated from each other by 
appreciable intervals. A fourth or a fifth dilution may 
be made, but is not usually required, as the third dilu- 
tion is in most instances sufficient. 

The end of each of these tubes, with the plug with- 
drawn, is heated in turn to destroy any organisms which 
may be present at the edge of the tube and the gela- 
tine is poured into a flat sterilised glass dish (fig. 149) 
a Petri dish which is quickly covered with another 
similar but larger sterilised dish. The melted gelatine 




FIG. 149. 

solidifies as a thin sheet of nutrient gelatine, and is 
allowed to remain at a ^temperature of about 20 to 
22 C. 

Some organisms will grow quickly and others slowly, 
and by colour, size, shape of colonies and effect on the 
gelatine it is usually possible to distinguish that several 
organisms are present. In the plate from the first tube 
the colonies are so numerous that they are separated 
from each other by too small a distance to isolate. In 
the plate from the second the organisms may be suffi- 
ciently far apart, and in the third and subsequent 
dilutions the colonies resulting from the growth of the 
widely separated organisms are usually far enough apart 
to be easily distinguished from each other. From these 
cultures can be made. 

As the first dilution is too little diluted for practical 
work and the second is usually so, it is unnecessary to 
make these dilutions in the solid medium or to make 



374 PLATING 

plates of them. The two first dilutions may be done in 
sterile broth or even in a weak sterile salt solution, 
5 grammes to a litre, and only the third .in the solid 
medium. This economises the solid medium, which is 
the most troublesome to prepare. 

Plating may be done with agar, but a thermometer 
must be used to make sure that the agar is cool enough, 
as if too hot the organisms may be killed. The agar will 
have to be heated to nearly the boiling point of water to 
become thoroughly fluid, and allowed to cool to about 
44 C. before inoculation. It is not so easy a proceeding 
as plating with gelatine, but agar is the only solid medium 
that can be used in many parts of the Tropics, as above 
22 C. the gelatine will not set. Stronger solutions, as 
20 per cent, gelatine, will remain solid at 37'5 C., but 
these stronger gelatines are not easy to work with and 
frequently undergo changes during sterilisation that cause 
liquefaction or acid production. Unless ice and a cold 
incubator are available we are restricted to the use of 
agar for plating. 

A convenient method of plating in agar is to make 
the agar plates and inoculate when the agar has set 
either from the second or third broth solution, by making 
a series of parallel strokes with a platinum loop on the 
solidified surface, or, and better, by using a sterilised 
brush camel's hair and brushing lightly over the sur- 
face of the medium after dipping this brush in the second 
or third broth dilution. Excess of fluid is to be avoided 
by draining off from the brush against the inner side of 
the tube. The brush should be sterilised in a dry tube, 
plugged with wool, by three successive sterilisations. 
The platinum wire is sterilised as usual by heating in 
the flame. 

Some important organisms will not grow on any 
known artificial medium, and others only on special 
media or under special conditions. Separation of such 
organisms is either impossible or difficult. Standard 
books on bacteriology should be consulted for methods, 



DESCRIPTION OF ORGANISMS 375 

but these will not usually be practicable for the solitary 
practitioner under the conditions of tropical life and 
work. 

Description of Organisms. Having obtained a pure 
culture of an organism the more important points to 
determine are as follows : 

(1) Size, shape and arrangement. Morphological 
appearance. 

(2) Motility. 

(3) Spore formation. 

(4) Structure. Flagella, capsule, &c. 

(5) Staining reactions : (a) Simple stains ; (b) Gram's 
method ; (c) Ziehl-Neelson. 

(6) Growths on artificial media: (a) In broth; (6) 
on gelatine ; (c) on agar. 

(7) Conditions : (a) Essential to growth ; (b) favour- 
able to growth ; (c) inimical to growth. 

(8) Chemical products : Gas formation and curdling 
of milk ; acid or alkali formation ; indol formation. 

(9) Reaction with blood sera, particularly with the 
blood sera of patients suffering from definite diseases. 

(10) Pathogenic properties. 

In organisms such as B. leprce, which cannot be 
cultivated, only a few of these points can be determined ; 
and the pathogenicity has not been proved experiment- 
ally, with a doubtful exception, as lower animals are 
insusceptible. The causal relation is inferred from the 
constant association of the organisms, identified by their 
staining reactions and appearances in the lesions resulting 
from the disease, and from the observation that they are 
not found except in this disease. 

We propose to take briefly the methods of observing 
these various points. The descriptive terms used with 
reference to them, the relative value and the limitations 
to the value of each point for diagnostic purposes will 
also be considered. 

(i) The size and shape of an organism is best observed 
in stained specimens, and any simple stain combined 



376 PREPARATION OF FILMS 

with a mordant will suffice. Films should be made on 
a slide or cover-glass. For this purpose with a culture 
in broth all that is required is to spread a drop with the 
platinum wire. If the culture is on agar or gelatine it 
should be rubbed up with a little water (sterile), and of 
this emulsion a portion should be spread out with a 
needle. 

Preparation of Films. If it be desired to make a film 
or smear from any natural fluid or excretion it may 
require the addition of a little water to make a satis- 
factory smear. From blood, thick films may be used 
and decolourised by removing the haemoglobin with 
sterile water. Tissues should be cut with a sterile knife 
and the cut surface rubbed on the slide. 

The most difficult films to make are those such as 
sputum containing much mucus. The most satisfactory 
method is to use two slides and warm both. A portion 
of the mucus is transferred to one slide and this is 
warmed over a Bunsen flame or spirit lamp, and a 
second slide is warmed at the same time. The second 
warmed slide is used to rub the mucus on the first and 
is placed with the long axis at right angles to the 
other, and the surfaces parallel and in contact. The 
slides are then separated and both are again warmed in 
the flame with the smeared side of each uppermost. 
They are again, whilst still hot, rubbed together with the 
smeared surface of the two in contact. This process is 
repeated till the films are nearly dry, when they are 
finally rubbed . together harder. Good thin, dry films 
are easily and quickly obtained by this method. 

However the films are made they require fixation. 
This is best done by heat and is usually accomplished 
by passing through a smokeless flame three times, the 
smeared side always uppermost. Do not char the film. 

As many films are so thin that they are difficult to 
see when dry, it is well to mark the smeared side of the 
slide with a grease pencil. The staining fluid is simply 
placed over the film for the requisite time and then 



SCHIZOMYCETES 377 

washed off. Stains used are Loffler's blue, five to ten 
minutes ; carbol thionin, five minutes ; carbol fuchsin 
or gentian violet for organisms that do not take other 
stains deeply, one to ten minutes. 

SCHIZOMYCETES. 

Bacteria or Schizomycetes are unicellular vegetable 
organisms. Reproduction is by fission. Resistant forms 
called " spores " may be produced. 

They are differentiated by these characters from 
Hyphomycetes or moulds, in which spores form in specially 
differentiated cells, and from Blastomycetes or yeasts, which 
are oval or rounded bodies and in which reproduction is 
accomplished by budding. 

(i) Morphology. The various shapes of bacteria usually 
described are Cocci or rounded or oval bodies, with the 
greatest diameter not more than twice the least. Micro- 
cocci is used for the smaller forms. If division takes 
place only in one direction the organisms may remain 
attached in pairs, Diplococci, or in chains, Streptococci, if a 
series remain attached. 

In other cases division takes place in two directions, 
and we then find the organisms arranged in squares of 
four or multiples of four. Such growths are called 
Tetrads. Others divide in three directions at right angles 
to each other and form cubical masses, these are known 
as Sarcince. 

A common arrangement is irregular growth in all 
directions, leading to an irregular mass or cluster of cocci, 
Staphylococci. 

Bacilli are cells that are rod-shaped. They are longer, 
at least twice as long as they are broad, and the shorter 
forms are distinguished from oval cocci by having the 
two sides parallel. By fission they may grow into long 
jointed rods streptobacilli. 

Curved organisms are, when short, known as Vibrios, 
when longer and more twisted as Spirilla or Spirobacteria. 



378 MOTILITY 

Lcptothrix. Rod-shaped, filamentous forms showing 
differentiation between base and apex, but not branching. 

Streptothrix. Filamentous forms showing true branch- 
ing. These form the connecting link between the Schizo- 
mycetes and the Hyphomycetes. 

Measurements are made as for other minute bodies. 
Some organisms readily change their form with varia- 
tions in the condition under which growth has taken 
place. If the variations are great the organism is de- 
scribed as "pleomorphic." Slight variations occur in all 
organisms, so that morphological characters alone are 
not to be relied on. 

(2) Motility. This can only be observed in living 
cultures, though it can be inferred for organisms which 
are shown to have flagella. The motion of motile organ- 
isms must be clearly distinguished from the oscillatory 
movement Brownian movement common to all minute 
particles suspended in fluid. 

True motility is best observed in a "hanging drop" 
preparation. This is made by making a thick ring with 
vaseline on a slide and taking a clean cover-glass, rather 
longer than this ring, and placing near the centre a small 
drop of the culture of living organisms to be examined. 
The slide is then taken up and turned so that the vaseline 
ring is directed downwards, and is gently brought into 
contact with the cover-glass so that the drop of culture 
on the cover is in the centre of the ring of vaseline. 
The cover will adhere to the vaseline ring and form a 
sealed chamber, and when the slide is turned over again 
the drop will hang from the lid of this chamber, the 
cover-glass, and can then be examined. If the tempera- 
ture is so high that the vaseline runs, lard can be 
substituted for it. 

The organisms are colourless and transparent and 
difficult to focus, so that the light must be reduced by 
nearly closing the iris diaphragm. Either i or T ^ oil 
immersion objective may be used. It is well to focus 
first on to the edge of the vaseline ring and then move 



SPORE FORMATION 379 

the slide towards the drop, keeping the droplets of water 
of condensation which usually form on the under surface 
of the cover-glass in focus till the edge of the drop is 
reached. With a little practice and a dim light the 
organisms can then be brought into focus and the pres- 
ence or absence of automatic motility determined. 

This property, though an important point of difference 
between some organisms that closely resemble each other 
morphologically, is subject to considerable variation, and 
the degree of motility in motile organisms varies from 
slight causes, such as slight difference in temperature, 
reaction of the medium, <&c. 

(3) Spore Formation. All the micro-organisms repro- 
duce by fission, but some of them also enter into a 
resting stage spores. The resting form is much more 
resistent to agencies, chemical, heat, &c., which destroy 
organisms, so that spores will withstand for some time 
the temperature of boiling water, though the active phase 
of the organism is at once destroyed. 

Some organisms form spores very readily, others only 
under certain circumstances not thoroughly understood, 
and many pathogenic and other organisms do not form 
spores under any known circumstances. 

The spores can often be recognised in the living culture, 
as they are usually more highly retractile as well as 
rounder. For the demonstration in dried films advantage 
is taken of the fact that spores stain with greater difficulty, 
but when stained, retain their stain better than the organ- 
isms from which they were derived. A simple method 
is to stain with warm carbol fuchsin for five minutes. 
This much overstains both spores and bacilli. Treat 
rapidly with 2 per cent, sulphuric acid ; this, if done 
rapidly, will leave the spores stained, but remove the 
stain entirely from the bacilli. Wash well to remove 
the last traces of acid and counter-stain with Loffler's 
blue for ten minutes, or carbol thionin. The spores will 
be stained by the fuchsin and the bacilli blue by the 
methylene blue or thionin. 



380 STRUCTURE OF ORGANISMS 

This method is successful for most spore-forming 
organisms. 

(4) Structure of Organisms. Certain points in the struc- 
ture of organisms are sufficiently definite to be of use 
in diagnosis. 

Capsules. Some organisms have a thick capsule which 
does not stain deeply with basic stains, or may not stain 
at all. The simplest method of demonstration is to stain 
the film with carbol fuchsin and to examine in water, not 
in Canada balsam. The organism is surrounded by a 
clear space, and the capsule with a defined edge can 
usually be seen. 

Welch treats the film with 2 per cent, acetic acid, which 
causes the capsule to swell and enables it to take the 
stain, and then after removal of the acid he stains with 
aniline gentian violet for five to thirty seconds. Cap- 
sulated organisms often lose their capsules in culture, but 
the presence or absence of a capsule, as seen, for instance, 
in sputum, is of value. 

A cell wall is probably present in all the organisms, 
but it is difficult to demonstrate. In some, however, it 
is fairly well marked. It is best shown after the cell 
contents have been caused to shrink by salt solutions 
or iodine solution (plasmolysis). 

Flagella. Motile organisms have been shown to have 
flagella. They are variable in number, and whilst the 
vibrios have usually only one or two the motile bacilli 
may have large numbers. The number of flagella is of 
some value in the differentiation of species, and the 
presence, absence, or plan of arrangement is of differential 
value in grouping organisms. 

The methods of demonstration cannot be considered 
as satisfactory or easy, and there is considerable uncer- 
tainty in the results ; they are all troublesome. The 
two common methods successfully employed are Muir's 
modified Pitfield and MacCrorie's. 

By Muir's method the mordant employed is composed 
of : 



FLAGELLA STAINING 381 

Dannie acid 10 per cent, aqueous solu- 
tion 10 cc. 

Corrosive sublimate saturated aqueous 

solution 5 cc. 

Alum saturated aqueous solution ... 5 cc. 

Carbol fuchsin 5 cc. 

This is well mixed, allowed to settle, and the clear 
fluid decanted off and centrifugalised. This mordant 
keeps for about a fortnight, but must be centrifugalised 
each time before use. 

The stain employed is composed of a saturated solution 
of alum, 25 cc., with 5 cc. of alcoholic gentian violet 
saturated solution. This must be prepared immediately 
before use. 




FIG. 150. 



The smears should be made from agar cultures, twelve 
to eighteen hours old, emulsified with a little distilled 
water. Spread very gently on a cover-glass, freshly 
flamed to free from grease. Hold in Cornet's forceps 
(fig. 150), being careful that the film side corresponds to 
the fenestrated side of the forceps, otherwise mistakes as 
to which is the film side may occur. 

Allow the film to dry in air and fix by passing through 
the flame. Cover with the mordant and heat till it 
steams for two minutes. Wash well in water and dry 
carefully. Pour on the gentian violet stain and heat 
till the staining fluid steams for two minutes. Wash 
in water, dry and mount in Canada balsam. 

This method requires the use of a centrifuge, but gives 
a large proportion of successful results. 

MacCrorie's method is simpler. A single stain com- 



32 SIMPLE STAINS 

bined with a mordant is used for staining the flagella 
and the bacilli are counter-stained with carbol fuchsin. 
The stain is composed of : 

Night blue saturated alcoholic solution 10 cc. 
Potash alum saturated aqueous solution 10 cc. 
Tannin 10 per cent, aqueous solution ... 10 cc. 
Gallic acid i or 2 grammes improves the solution. 
Films from young agar cultures are prepared as above 
and the stain is placed on the film for five minutes and 
slightly warmed. It must be flushed off with running 
water or a thick, dirty deposit will be left. Counter-stain 
with carbol fuchsin, dry and mount. 

(5) Differentiation by Methods of Staining. There are 
three main methods of diagnostic value : 

(a) SIMPLE STAINS. There is great variation in the 
ease with which different organisms take up stains, and 
this difference is sometimes of value. Some organisms 
do not stain uniformly, and such differences as pre- 
ferential affinity of stains for the ends of a bacillus, 
bipolar staining, is one of the characteristics of the 
plague bacillus. In cultures organisms frequently lose 
their characteristic staining reactions. 

Of greater value are two special methods. 

(b) GRAM'S METHOD is based on the fact that some 
organisms will retain their stain when treated with alcohol 
if, after staining, they are treated with a solution of iodine. 
A freshly prepared solution of gentian violet in aniline 
water is made by shaking up a few drops of aniline oil 
with water and filtering. To this is added drop by drop 
an alcoholic solution of gentian violet till a metallic film 
begins to form on the surface. With this stain the fixed 
film is stained for five minutes. Carbolic acid i in 20 
can be used instead of the aniline water. If now treated 
with alcohol the stain would be completely removed from 
all the organisms. 

In some organisms the addition to the film of Gram's 
iodine solution, composed of iodine i part, potassium 
iodide 2 parts, and water 300 parts, for two minutes, 



GRAM'S METHOD 383 

will fix the stain in these organisms so that when the 
film has been treated with alcohol they still retain the 
purple colour, whilst it is removed from everything else. 
The organisms which retain their stains are those which 
are described as " staining by Gram." 

The alcohol is kept on till it ceases to remove any more 
colour and not longer, as in time it will remove the stain 
even from the organisms which stain by Gram. 

It is convenient instead of using a plain alcohol to 
use an alcoholic solution of eosin J per cent., as then 
organisms which do not stain by Gram will be stained 
faintly by the eosin. This is of most use when working 
with a mixture of organisms, such as is met with in many 
secretions, &c. 

For sections it has the additional advantage that it 
does not require such prolonged treatment with alcohol 
as is required if alcohol is first used to decolourise and 
then again for counter-staining. 

As the action of alcohol is so rapid when working 
with organisms that retain the stain less firmly, another 
agent that decolourises more slowly is better. The 
agent used is aniline oil. This decolourises the non- 
Gram staining organisms as effectually as alcohol. It is 
used in the same way but can be left on longer. If 
counter-staining is desired the counter-stain must be used 
before staining by Gram. 

The use of aniline oil instead of alcohol is better for 
sections. Counter-staining with eosin or bismuth brown 
should be done first. After staining with Gram and 
adding the iodine, blot and treat with aniline oil. This 
will dehydrate as well as remove the stain from non- 
Gram staining organisms. Then wash off the aniline oil 
with xylol and mount in xylol balsam. 

Most of the pyogenic cocci, the organisms usually found 
in suppuration, stain by Gram. Many of the organisms 
associated with intestinal and other diseases do not stain 
by Gram. 

(c) ZIEHL-NEELSON'S METHOD. A comparatively small 



384 ZIEHL-NEELSON'S METHOD 

number of groups of organisms are described as acid fast, 
because when once stained they retain the stain even after 
treatment with fairly strong, 25 per cent., solutions of the 
mineral acids. Hydrochloric, nitric or sulphuric acids 
are those used. 

The method employed is to use a strong basic stain 
such as fuchsin in a i in 20 aqueous solution of carbolic 
acid, and either to stain in the cold for some hours, or 
more conveniently to warm until the carbol fuchsin 
steams, and then keep warm for five minutes. 

This is conveniently done on the slide. The film is 
fixed as usual and covered with the carbol fuchsin. The 
slide is placed on a copper which has been warmed in 
the flame and left there, fresh stain being added if evapor- 
ation is too rapid or the stain shows signs of boiling. 

The stain is flushed off and replaced by a 25 per cent, 
solution of sulphuric acid. The pink colour disappears 
and is replaced by a yellow. The film is again washed 
and if still pink again treated with sulphuric acid. This 
is repeated till on washing at the most a faint pink colour 
returns. 

The specimen is well washed in water to completely 
remove the acid and counter-stained with Loffler's blue 
for five minutes. Wash, dry, and either examine directly 
by placing a drop of oil on the film or mount in Canada 
balsam. The acid-fast organisms retain the red colour 
of the fuchsin whilst other organisms are stained blue 
by the methylene blue which is used as the counter-stain. 

In tropical work it is important only to use fresh 
carbol fuchsin. The solution keeps well in England, 
but in the Tropics it deteriorates so that sometimes in 
a week or so, and at others in some months, it ceases to 
stain well. Colour-blind people will find it well to use 
gentian violet instead of fuchsin. An alcoholic solution 
of gentian violet is added to the i in 20 carbolic acid 
to make the stain, and Bismarck brown is used as the 
counter-stain. 

The more important members of the acid-fast group 



TUBERCLE 



35 



cannot be cultivated in the simpler media. It will 
therefore be convenient to consider these organisms here. 
There are four main groups of the acid-fast organisms, 
which will be considered under the heading of the best 
known member of the group : 

Tubercle ; lepra ; smegma ; Timothy grass. 
Some forms of the Streptothrix group are also "acid- 
fast." 

The tubercle group includes the organisms found 
in tuberculosis, in mammals, birds and reptiles. 

The organisms can be cultivated on blood serum 
and nutrient glycerine agar, or in glycerine veal 
broth. Growth is slow and much affected by the 
temperature. The preferential temperature is that of 
the animal from which the organisms were obtained. 
The mammalian, avian and reptilian tubercle 
bacilli therefore grow at different temperatures and 
are pathogenic to mammals, birds and reptiles re- 
spectively. Some authorities hold that they are 
modifications of one and the same organisms and 
that they can, by suitable methods, have their 
characters altered so that the differences disappear. 
By most authorities the three are considered to be 
specifically distinct, and some go further and do 
not admit the specific unity of the tubercle organ- 
isms in different mammals. Koch holds that bovine 
and human tuberculosis are distinct, on the ground 
that their pathogenicity varies. 

Tubercle bacilli in man are found in the secre- 
tions or excretions from an infected organ and there- 
fore may be found in sputum, urine, &c. They 
usually set up a granulomatous new growth which 
has a marked tendency to caseate and break down. 
The organisms may be present in large numbers, 
but in some situations, such as the skin, bones, 
pleural effusions, &c., they are usually found only in 
small numbers. They are found but rarely in the 
blood. 
25 



386 LEPROSY 

The Lepm Bacillus is the only representative known 
of this group. It cannot be cultivated on artificial 
media, and all experiments at inoculation of lower 
animals have failed. The organisms are found in 
extraordinary numbers in leprous tubercles in the 
skin, and when these ulcerate, in the discharges 
from these ulcers. Before ulceration the bacilli can 
be readily demonstrated, by compression with a 
clamp of a tubercle or portion of infiltrated skin. 
On pricking this, serum loaded with the bacilli will 
exude. The bacilli are not found in ulcers or sores 
in purely nerve leprosy, as in that form they 
are present in the nerve sheaths and the ulcer or 
necrosis is not due to the breaking down of a 
leprous granuloma, or of tissues infiltrated with the 
organisms. 

One of the most constant natural discharges to 
contain the bacilli is the mucus discharged from 
the nose. It is also one of the earliest manifes- 
tations in many cases, including some of nerve or 
anaesthetic leprosy. By some it is believed that 
the earliest and most constant lesion of leprosy of 
all forms is a deposit in or below the nasal mucous 
membrane. 

Various differences in size, staining reaction, &c., 
between lepra and tubercle bacilli have been de- 
scribed, but they are not sufficiently marked or 
constant to be of diagnostic value. The most im- 
portant diagnostic point in films of mucus is 
the aggregation of the bacilli into small, dense 
clumps in leprosy, in many cases still retaining the 
outline of the cell in which they grew. In sections 
of skin the extraordinary profusion of the organisms, 
as well as the aggregation into compact masses, is 
characteristic of lepra bacillus as opposed to human 
tubercle. In some of the lesions of avian tubercle 
a similar grouping may be found, whilst in internal 
organs in man there may be diffuse growth of the 
lepra bacilli. 



SMEGMA 387 

Smegma Bacilli. This group probably includes 
several species. In most specimens of smegma the 
organisms, though truly acid fast, are decolourised 
by alcohol, that is, they are not alcohol fast. Some 
varieties, however, do not lose their stain in alcohol 
and are like the tubercle, both acid and alcohol 
fast. This organism has been the cause of frequent 
mistakes in diagnosis, as urine easily becomes con- 
taminated with this bacillus, and it may readily be 
mistaken for that of tubercle and a diagnosis of 
urinary or renal tuberculosis given. In the majority 
of cases the use of alcohol, as well as of acid, will 
prevent this mistake, but as some specimens of the 
smegma, including Lustgarten's so-called syphilis 
bacillus, are also alcohol fast, the possibility of the 
confusion should be avoided by using the catheter. 

The fourth group, of which the Timothy grass 
bacillus, or B. phlei, is taken as the type, are the 
only organisms of this group which grow readily 
on almost any medium. They are found on several 
species of grass used as fodder and may be found 
in enormous numbers in the faeces of cattle. As a 
consequence they are often found in milk and 
products, such as butter and cheese, derived from 
milk. Several varieties or species have been de- 
scribed. This group is of economic importance, 
as cattle have been condemned as tuberculous, on 
the grounds that acid-fast bacilli were found in the 
stools and milk ; butter and cheese have also been 
condemned on this insufficient reason. These or- 
ganisms are not pathogenic. 

(6) Groivths on Artificial Media. With organisms that 
can be cultivated, the growths on artificial media (nutrient 
broth, gelatine or agar), differ in some cases sufficiently 
to be of diagnostic value, and in any case the character 
of the growth is one of the properties of an organism 
that requires description. 

Cultures may be made on plates as in the separation 



388 CHARACTERS OF CULTURES 

of different organisms, or, and more conveniently, in 
tubes. The growths in fluid media are made by taking 
on a sterilised platinum loop a portion of the culture 
and inoculating the tube. The nature and character 
of the naked-eye appearance in the broth at varying 
periods should be described. The temperature at which 
the cultivation is made must also be noted where incu- 
bators are available. Blood heat, 37 C. and 21 C., are 
the most convenient, and terms like " room temperature" 
should be avoided. In many tropical countries the 
temperature of the air will range from 25 to 30 C., and 
satisfactory growths of the more important organisms 
can be obtained. In a description of the growths 
at these temperatures a result intermediate between 
those at incubator temperatures will be obtained. All 
cultivations must be carried on in the dark. 

The points to be observed in a broth Culture are the 
surface, whether covered with or free from a film or 
pellicle. In the body of the fluid note if the fluid is 
turbid and the degree of turbidity, if not turbid whether 
quite clear or with floating particles ; the presence or 
absence of a precipitate and, if one be present, whether 
it is composed of a uniform fine deposit or if in 
separate masses. Any change in colour, and bubbles 
from formation of gas, must be further noted. 

On solid media the growths may be observed on plates 
or in tubes. In tubes the growths can be seen on sloped 
cultures by drawing the inoculated platinum loop over 
the surface of the medium obtained by placing the tube, 
whilst the medium was still liquid, in a sloped position 
and allowing it to set, or in stab cultures. In these the 
medium is allowed to set with the tubes vertical. An 
inoculated wire, not a loop, is plunged steadily into the 
depths of the medium and withdrawn without splitting 
the medium. 

The appearance of the separate colonies is most im- 
portant. There are great diversities in the appearance 
of growths on solid media, and an accurate series of 



CULT UK MS 389 

defined terms for descriptive purposes is much needed. 
Such a series of descriptive terms has been drawn up 
by Chester, but many of the terms will probably not be 
generally accepted and they are used at present by few 
bacteriologists. 

The observer should note and describe the size of the 
of the individual colonies, their shape, the character of 
the edge, their elevation, whether raised or depressed, 
and give a detailed account of the character of the 
surface. The macroscopic appearances of the colony : 
if transparent, whether highly refractile or not, and if 
not clear whether opalescent, finely or coarsely granular, 
or irregularly blotchy. Any colouration, either of the 
colony itself or the surrounding medium, must be noted. 
In some organisms the different colonies remain distinct 
even when in contact, whilst with other organisms adjoin- 
ing colonies readily grow together or become confluent. 
In growths on gelatine the presence or absence of signs 
of liquefaction in the surrounding medium is a point 
of the first importance. 

In stab cultures any surface growth must be noted, as 
well as the growth in the line of puncture. It may be 
uniform, finely or coarsely granular, composed of 
numerous fine or coarse colonies which remain discrete 
and are not confluent, or of large masses. Extension 
into the gelatine in the neighbourhood of the puncture 
may take place, and the character of these extensions, 
whether as knots or as fine filaments, or in an irregular, 
arborescent manner, is worthy of attention. 

If liquefaction, in a gelatine medium, has taken place 
it will be well shown. It is most abundant in the upper 
part of the line of puncture when the organism requires 
oxygen, but with organisms that grow best in the absence 
of air will be more conspicuous in the depths. 

Air bubbles along the line of puncture, indicating 
formation of gas and any colouration of the growth or 
of the medium, must be noted. 

The amount of growth that takes place in a given time 



390 CONDITIONS AFFECTING GROWTH 

as compared with other organisms, or similarly the 
relative amount of liquefaction, gas formation, &c., in 
the time, is an aid in distinguishing allied or similar 
organisms, though liable to be modified with different 
strains of the same organism. 

There is no cultural characteristic that cannot be 
modified by frequent subculture, culture under different 
conditions of temperature, reaction of medium, and other 
influences. The cultures of some organisms vary more 
than those of others. The information gained as to the 
character of growths, though of considerable value, has 
to be considered with other properties of the organisms. 

Cultures on milk, potatoes, &c., are often of more 
diagnostic value for special organisms. 

(7) Conditions Affecting the Growth of Organisms. One 
of these, the effect of oxygen, is of special practical value. 

Some organisms will only grow in presence of oxygen ; 
such organisms are strictly aerobic. Others will not grow 
at all in the presence of oxygen, these are said to be 
strictly anaerobic. The largest number of bacteria are 
intermediate between the two and are termed facultative 
anaerobes. 

Aerobic organisms grow readily under the ordinary 
conditions, as even in stab cultures there is usually 
sufficient oxygen present for the commencement of 
growth. 

Anaerobic organisms are most easily grown in stab 
cultures of glucose, agar or gelatine, or in glucose formate 
agar made by adding '02 per cent. sod. formate to glucose 
agar (Kitisato). The tubes must have been freshly 
boiled to expel air from the medium, and the stab should 
be made with a fine needle so as to carry down as little 
air as possible. After the needle is withdrawn the upper 
part of the medium should be heated so as to melt it and 
seal the opening made by the needle. 

It must be remembered that though the growth of 
anaerobic organisms does not take place in presence 
of air, the organisms, and particularly the spores, may 



CHEMICAL PRODUCTS 



39 1 



retain their vitality and grow if transplanted into more 
favourable conditions. 

l(8) Chemical Products of Organisms. These vary both 
with the nature of the organism and the character of the 
medium. Gas formation is one of the easiest to deter- 
mine, but it is also necessary to have in the medtrtm, 
some substance from which the gas can be formed. The 
sugars are valuable for this purpose, and it will be found 
that whilst one organism will form gas from either 
glucose or lactose another will form gas only from 
glucose. Another manifestation of chemical activity is 
the formation of acid or alkali. Formation of acids and 
gases are of particular importance, as so many of the 



FIG. 151. 



organisms found in the intestine either form gas and acid 
from glucose or form acid only. 

FORMATION OF GAS. The formation of gas can be 
shown in most stab preparations as bubbles of gas form 
along the needle track. It is better shown by melting 
the gelatine, or, better, glucose gelatine, and rotating the 
tube alternately in opposite directions after inoculation. 
Such a preparation is known as a " shake culture," and 
after it has set and grown, bubbles of gas will be formed 
all through the medium. 

A better method that can be used with fluid media is 
to place in the medium a small inverted tube, Durham's 



39 2 GAS AXD ACIU 

tube. During sterilisation of the medium the gas will 
be expelled from this small tube, which will be completely 
filled with the fluid medium. If the tube be inoculated 
with an organism that forms gas from the medium the 
gas formed in the small inverted tube will accumulate 
in it and cause it to float (fig. 151.) 

Gas formation from glucose is one of the characteristics 
of some of the commoner intestinal bacteria. 

FORMATION OF ACID. Acid formation can be shown 
by using a neutral or slightly alkaline medium coloured 
with litmus ; the formation of acid is shown by the 
change in colour of the litmus. 

Most of the intestinal bacteria form acid readily. An 
ingenious application of these properties of the intestinal 
organisms is that of MacConkey for the detection of 
faecal contamination of water, milk and other substances. 
He uses Durham's tubes and employs a medium con- 
taining bile salts. Bile salts inhibit the growth of many 
organisms, but are favourable to the growth of intestinal 
bacteria. 

The medium he employs is composed of : Peptone, 20 ; 
salt, -5 ; sodium taurocholate, '5 ; water, 100 ; to which 
is added glucose or lactose in the proportion of '5 per 
cent. The medium is neutral and is coloured with neutral 
litmus. A Durham's tube is placed in the test tube 
containing the medium and during the three sterilisations 
required will be filled with the medium. 

A measured amount of the water, &c., to be tested 
is added and the tube incubated, preferably at 42 C., for 
twenty-four hours. Organisms which in this medium 
produce acid and gas may be suspected to be possible 
inhabitants of the intestinal tract. 

Other pathogenic and non-pathogenic intestinal or- 
ganisms form acid only. Of organisms other than these 
many will not grow in the medium at all, or if they do 
grow form neither acid nor gas. 

If, therefore, neither acid nor gas is formed, the evi- 
dence is strong that there is no living faecal contamina- 



INDOL FORMATION 393 

tion, and not that of the commonest of the intestinal 
organisms, B. coli communis. If acid alone is formed it 
is doubtful whether there is such contamination, as B. 
coli communis must be absent. If acid and gas are both 
formed there is strong probability that the water, &c., is 
contaminated with organisms that are inhabitants of the 
intestinal tract. 

INDOL FORMATION is another important chemical pro- 
duct of some bacteria. A simple medium is required, 
and plain peptone water made by boiling 10 grammes of 
peptone and 5 grammes of salt in a litre of water is 
usually employed. This should be filtered and sterilised 
as usual. 

The tube of this medium should be inoculated with 
the organism to be examined and incubated for at least 
twenty-four hours. Other tubes inoculated at the same 
time are incubated for longer periods. 

To this culture a little pure sulphuric acid is added ; 
a red colour develops in a few minutes if indol and a 
nitrite have been formed. If the colour remains unal- 
tered, three or four drops of a "05 solution of sodium 
nitrite should be added to the mixture, and if a red 
colour now develops indol alone has been formed. 
Yellow-fuming nitric acid which contains traces of nitrites 
may be satisfactorily used instead of nitrite. 

Amongst other chemical products are ammonia, alcohol, 
phenol, sulphuretted hydrogen, and the substances which 
cause curdling of milk. 

EFFECTS ON CERTAIN ANILINE COLOURING MATTERS. 

Neutral-red Agar. This medium consists of ordinary 
agar, to each 100 cc. of which -3 gramme of glucose 
and i cc. of a saturated aqueous solution of neutral- 
red have been added before the medium is poured into 
tubes. 

In this medium B. typhosus and B. dysenteric grow 
without changing it, while B. coli communis and the 
paratyphoid bacilli, in twenty-four to forty-eight hours 



394 SERUM REACTIONS 

decolourise the medium and produce a greenish fluores- 
cence, forming gas at the same time. Stab cultures or 
shake cultures may be employed. 

Drigalski and Conradis Medium. To prepare this 
medium, 2,000 cc. of 3 per cent, nutrient agar are treated 
with 20 grammes nutrose, then with a solution of 
30 grammes of lactose in 260 cc. litmus solution. The 
procedure is as follows : The litmus solution is boiled for 
ten minutes in the steam steriliser, the lactose added, and 
the mixture again boiled for ten minutes. The litmus 
lactose solution is cooled to 40 to 50 C., and the nutrose 
agar cooled to 70 C. is added to it. The mixture is 
rendered alkaline with hot 10 per cent, soda solution to 
the extent that on shaking, the froth formed is distinctly 
blue after a few minutes' standing. Finally, 20 cc. of 
o*i per cent, freshly prepared solution of crystal violet are 
added, and the medium sterilised in the usual way it 
should be bluish-violet when solidified. 

On this medium B. typhosns produces small transparent 
colonies, while B. coli coiuniunis produces larger colonies, 
brilliant red and non-transparent. 

(9) Reaction of Organisms with nirioits Blood Sera. 
Certain pathogenic organisms effect a change in the 
blood serum of persons infected with these organisms, 
so that the serum contains substances which, when mixed 
with a living culture of the organism, cause loss of 
motility of the bacteria, and also cause them to aggregate 
in little clumps or masses. This aggregation is called 
agglutination, and the serum which causes this agglu- 
tination is said to contain agglutinins. 

The application of the test is simple. The blood 
serum, free from red corpuscles, is obtained, as has been 
already described, and diluted with sterile broth to a 
known extent, ten, twenty, thirty or more times. Some- 
times the blood is sent in capillary tubes or the serum 
has not well separated. In such cases, to obtain clear 
serum it is necessary to use the centrifuge (fig. 152). 
This diluted serum is mixed with an equal volume of a 



SERUM REACTIONS 



395 



living active culture of the organism to be tested and the 
mixture examined as a hanging-drop preparation. Loss 
of motion of the organisms and agglutination should 
take place within a certain time limit and a control made 
by using the same dilution of normal blood serum with 
more of the same culture. This action of the serum on 




FIG. 152. Centrifuge. 

the organisms is specific and affords a means of proving 
the co-relation of the organism and disease. 

It is true that strong undiluted normal serum will cause 
in some cases a similar agglutination, but not with the 
great dilutions which will act in serum from a person 
with disease. 



39 6 SERUM REACTIONS 

The converse of this test is to use a culture of an 
organism to test the serum reaction of a patient suspected 
to be suffering from the disease which the organism can 
cause. Typhoid and Malta fever are the diseases in which 
the action is most decisive. This application of the 
principle is known as the agglutination test, or the 
Griinbaum-Widal or Widal reaction. 

In the application of the hanging-drop method the 
serum may be diluted in Wright's tubes or by a number 
of loopfuls of broth being added to a loopful of serum 
and well mixed. To obtain a dilution of, i in 20, one 
loopful of serum is mixed with nine loopfuls of broth, 
and of this mixture one or -two loopfuls are mixed with 
one or two loopfuls of an active culture. 

If higher dilutions, say i in 100, are required, it would 
be inconvenient and tedious to mix one loopful with 
ninety-nine of broth. It is easier to make a dilution of 
i in 10 and dilute one loopful of this dilution with nine 
of broth, which gives the same dilution more quickly. 

The gradual loss of motility and aggregation of the 
organisms can be watched under the microscope in the 
hanging-drop preparation. 

Many observers prefer the macroscopic demonstrations 
of the same effect. This is done by aspirating into a 
tube a mixture of serum diluted to the required extent 
with broth mixed with an equal quantity of active broth 
culture. The mixture of culture and diluted serum is 
drawn up into a narrow tube and placed vertically in 
the incubator. The organisms will lose their motility 
and aggregate into a mass and fall to the bottom of the 
fluid, leaving the superjacent fluid clear and free from 
turbidity, in marked contrast to the control, which will 
still remain turbid. This method is known as the " sedi- 
mentation test." 

There are many fallacies which may occur in con- 
nection with these tests. The culture must be an active 
one and recently made. A control with serum of normal 
blood must be made and the dilution must be sufficient. 



PATHOGENIC PROPERTIES 397 

Some strains of the organisms agglutinate more readily 
than others, and even with diluted serum of normal 
blood, agglutination may take place if the organisms are 
grown on unsuitable media, or if the cultures are too old. 

The change in the serum may be a persistent one, so 
that a positive reaction in the case of a person who has 
had a previous attack of typhoid or Malta fever gives no 
information as to his present condition. 

(10) Pathogenic Properties. The pathogenic properties 
of an organism are shown by the effect of inoculating a 
susceptible animal with the organism in pure culture if 
possible. Where that is not possible, with fluid contain- 
ing as few other organisms as possible. 

In some instances, as in tuberculosis, the similarity of 
the lesions produced by a similar organism in animals 
indicated the variety likely to be suitable for inoculation 
to animals. In others a series of animals had to be used 
to find a susceptible host. Rats, guinea-pigs and rabbits 
are the animals most commonly used, but in other cases 
monkeys, dogs, cattle and horses have had to be employed. 
No such experiments can be made under the Vivisection 
Acts without a licence, and in any case there are so many 
difficulties and fallacies that without a thorough study of 
these and of the methods employed the results obtained 
would be valueless. 

Material used for injection may be : 

(1) Pure cultures of an organism. 

(2) Products of bacteria in solution such as toxins. 

(3) Fluid excretions, secretions and portions of diseased 
tissues. 

(4) Blood. 

The injections are usually made with strict antiseptic 
precautions into the subcutaneous cellular tissues. With 
fluid cultures there is no special difficulty. Cultures on 
solid media require to be emulsified with sterile saline 
solution. Solid tissues, portions of spleen, &c., should 
be rubbed up in a sterile mortar with a little sterile 
broth and then injected. Occasionally a small mass of 



39 8 INJECTIONS 

solid tissue is inserted into an aseptic pocket made under 
the skin for the purpose, and the wound closed by a 
sealed dressing such as gauze and collodion. 

In other cases the injection is intramuscular or intra- 
peritoneal. In intraperitoneal injections of small animals 
a big fold should be taken up between the finger and 
thumb, care being taken to include the whole thickness 
of the abdominal wall and to see that no intestine is 
included. Whilst still held this fold should be transfixed 
with the needle of the hypodermic syringe containing 
the substance to be injected so that the point just pro- 
trudes. The finger and thumb are now removed, the 
abdominal wall will flatten out and the point of the 
needle will be in the abdominal cavity. I ft this way 
the injection can be made without any risk of injuring 
the intestines. 

The results of inoculations are not always conclusive. 
The resulting disease, even in a susceptible animal, may 
show very little resemblance to the disease caused by 
the same organism in man or other animals. 

An organism that is pathogenic may by successive 
cultures lose its virulence, and become with some 
animals non-pathogenic, whilst on the other hand, if 
passed through a series of animals, the virulence may 
be increased. 

Koch's postulates are : 

(1) The organisms must be found in the tissues, fluids 
or organs of the animal affected with the disease. 

(2) The organism must be isolated and cultivated 
outside the body on suitable media for successive 
generations. 

(3) The isolated and cultivated organism on inoculation 
into a suitable animal should reproduce the disease. 

(4) The same organism must be recoverable from the 
inoculated animal. 

These in the main are still considered sound, though 
not practicable for all organisms, as some cannot be 
cultivated ; for others no susceptible animal is yet 



MYCETOMA 

known, and in some of the lower animals, though a 
disease is produced by the injections it bears little or no 
resemblance to the human disease under investigation. 

Streptothrix inadunv. This organism is the cause of 
a disease of special importance in the Tropics madura 
foot. It occurs in India, Straits Settlements, East Africa, 
British Guiana, and Cuba, and is probably to be met 
with all through the Tropics. 

Clinically it is a chronic disease which causes much 
swelling of a firm fibrous nature and destruction of the 
tissues, with the formation of sinuses discharging watery 
or oily-looking fluid. In some cases in this discharge, 
white, black or pink granules, visible to the naked eye, 
are found, and these are masses of branching filaments 
with mycelial arrangement. In other cases these granules 
are very rare, and only the branching filaments of the 
mycelium are found ; in still other cases these may also 
be absent, though in sections of the tissue the mycelial 
clumps are to be seen. 

The organism is characterised by the formation of 
dense clumps of mycelium formed of the branching 
filaments of the streptothrix. The ends of the filaments 
at the edges of these masses degenerate and become 
swollen, forming the so-called clubs. 

The organism will grow on any of the ordinary media, 
forming limpet-shaped masses. 

In general character the mycetoma resembles the 
streptothrix of actinomycosis, but it does not stain by 
Gram, in sections, does not liquefy gelatine, and the 
"clubs" are rounder. The clumps take any of the 
ordinary basic stains, including haemotoxylin, and either 
this stain or carbolthionin is to be recommended to show 
the organism in sections. 

The clumps of the mycelium set up changes in the 
tissue so that the growths are surrounded by a mass of 
newly formed tissue of the granulomatous type. At the 
periphery of the masses of this growth is much badly 



400 HYPHOMYCETES 

formed fibrous tissue, and the centre is often broken 
down. It is in the breaking clown of this granulomatous 
tissue that the mycelium clumps are liberated and are 
discharged with the fluids from the sinuses. 

HYPHOMYCETES (MOULDS). 

Of the various fungi which attack the skin and hair 
some are widely distributed, though more common and 
luxuriant in their growth in the Tropics. Pityriasis 
versicolor comes under this head. Others, like Favus ) 
may be common in some places, but as in temperate 
climates, are of limited distribution. The commoner 
fungi attacking the hair of the head are unknown in 
many tropical countries. The only fungus of this class 
at present recognised as peculiar to the Tropics is a 
cutaneous ringworm, Tinea imbricata, characterised 
clinically by the large size of the epidermal scales which 
are partially detached and the tendency to form geo- 
metrical patterns. 

For the demonstration of the fungi causing these 
various affections the older method consisted in soaking 
the hair or scales in a 7 per cent, solution of caustic 
potash, which rendered the keratin clear and transparent, 
whilst the fungus was less affected and could be clearly 
seen. This method causes swelling of the fungus and 
spores, and therefore is not suited for the differentiation 
of the varieties or species of fungi. 

A modification of Gram's method of staining gives 
more useful results but is slow. The hair or scale is 
stained in gentian violet aniline water for five minutes 
and dried with blotting paper. It is then treated with 
Gram's iodine solution for two minutes and again dried 
with blotting paper. It is then covered with aniline 
oil to which a little iodine has been added and left till 
the fungus can be seen. It should be examined from 
time to time under the microscope, as though the process 
is slow, ultimately even the fungus will be decolourised. 



FUNGI 401 

Do not wait till all the tissue is clear, but when nearly 
so, treat with aniline oil and clear in xylol. Mount 
in xylol balsam. 

The points to observe are the arrangement of the 
growth, whether inside or outside the hair, scale, &c., 
the presence and the size of the spores. The nomencla- 
ture of these fungi is based on these points. According 
to the seat of growth of the fungus it is an ecto- or 
endothrix, and microsporon or megalosporon according 
to the size of the spores. 

These ringworms are true fungi. The fungi are multi- 
cellular organisms composed of filaments, either simple 
or branched, or jointed or unjointed. These filaments 
are called hyphce, and if they project into the air are 
aerial hyphce, or down into the substance of the medium 
they are known as sub-aerial hyphen. 

They frequently form a compact mass a mycelium 
and if this form is a hard, dense mass it is known as a 
sclerotium. Sexual reproduction as well as reproduc- 
tion by fission has been proved to occur in most 
members of the group. 

These fungi include the ordinary moulds, and some,, 
such as ergot, form compounds which, when eaten, are 
poisonous. 

In addition to the cutaneous fungi which cause the 
true ringworms (Tinea), fungi may be found in mouth, 
ear or nose, as well as in pulmonary cavities. These are 
secondary growths. Occasionally, particularly in bird- 
rearers, who take uncooked grain in their mouths, a true 
pneumono-mycosis occurs. 

It is possible that some cases of madura foot, the 
black variety, are clue to a fungus and not to a strep- 
tothrix. 

The tropical fungi, aerial and otherwise, have so far 
received little attention, and should offer a fruitful field 
for research. Most of the fungi grow readily on nutrient 
media, but best if a sugar be added. Maltose is the most 
suitable for the fungi of the ringworms. 
26 



tjfi 

S - 
3 o 

H >. 

M 






a ii 



5 3 -i 

< a ci 





.s i .irs 








- ^ a. -^ 








S w ^ 




3 


^ rt S ** o 

g cS.^1 




3 


1 


Pitt 
|" | 


e 


^ 




1 l-l 


1 


_o 




S 5 o* 


rt 
_c 


"^, 


C 

| 


o tJ)^ w 
8 .S -o o ^ 
R ?^^ 




.S3 

-r 3 


t 

CL 


-~ "Sn-. ..M 


J 


~ 


J 


4> c c 


rt 3 


a 


I 

5 


| 111] 


T3 

c 

oS 


g 




C a) "^ 

2 c "^3 e/r o > 


<u 


u 




ti |sl 


1 


u 


2 


i" a : 






.;i 


S 'a. ^ 






1 


g 1 


1 


1 


jr 


4-> C 






S 


- 5 c 






CM 


s M 5 






| 


! 1 


1 


1 


gj? 


1 i \ 


Artificial 
medium 


till 


<u 

c.S 

b/ 

oj rt 


S 




C/2 


S " 


< 


i. 
>, 


d 
c c ^ 


1 1 


& 


^ 


ll 




1 


_C 

U 


i! i 


|| 


in 
\ 




1 w s 


^3 


> S 




j 


i 




a 




2 




S 


if 


g 




be 


^ s 


^ 


M 


6 


55 s^ 




*^* 




>. -5J. 


5 


^ 




QQ Qq 


"q 


nq 





^ 


c 


c 


s 

<u 


g*s 


S 


















QJ 






C 


/-I 





*s 


i- <-! 






C 


rr 


1 


Inoculation ; sk 
mucous membra 


Handling skins < 
fected animals, 
haling dust from 
Normally often p 
in the mouth; in] 


'2. 

JB 

1 

pq 


I mucous membra 


Breaches in moutl 
Feet or hands. 




c 


e 


i 








/r 


j= 


g ; 




V 


\ 


l~ 








j 

^ 


w 


1 M 


jS 


Cu 

o 

B, 


\ 


1 






c 

i 


n 

\ 

^ 


i 

T3 
C 


1 1 
'; 


be 
rt 

I 

S 


Anaerobic ; sa 
earth 


|{ 


"c 

rt 

1 


: 

1 1 


&c., often fou 


Abrasions of m 
Discharges froi 




i 


if. 








c 


o 




03 


o 


~ oj 


"rt 

9 

"75 ^ 'c 






mam 
mice 


13 

j 


<u : 

c 
3 . 


4J 


C J 


S , 








i 


C 






O 
1 


* tf 

|l 


~ *> 

a is 

5.gj| 






c "rt 


>> ."</> 












s| 




^ 
















CL c/) 




1 




J 














SI 




i 
^ 


= 




.S -^ 








(L) 




- 


1 




Ji 


1 


1 






<u rt 
5s.e 






w 


1 





T 








u 




5 


C3 






If. 

& 

1 








if 




0, 

s 


lococci 




3 




+ 






1 








1 


o 




















bU 

|i 


+ l 


+ 






1 




1 


^,0 


H 






















*4J 


"G 


o : 












c 


u - 












2 


j 


5 


S 


"o 


i 


: ^ ] w w : 


'S 




,J 






o 


c 


: 


<_. 


*j "^ *-> . 


i 

o 


, tetanus 


. anthraci 






leumococ 




c 
u 

p 


CL 

1 


o 5^2 

PI 




Qq DQ fc PH 


in S 





-O T3 </J 


-^ C C 3 <r. 




"rt rt "o 


rt . g |^ "* g 


jf 


1 is 


1^1 rtl^S J 


fc 


~ o _c *i 


-B"<n .2 c" o ^ 


c 


T^ 1 *" W) D 


o ^ M ai 7s .2 '-3 


* 


3 "rt 2 "^ 


^8i 3l|s 




J= ~*J= C 






S ~ 


"- S ^ 




: : : : : c ; : _c >^T3 


: : -o ^ TS 




-rv O 


/3 _^ r* ^ rt 


ja 
a 




LI _ = in 

y: = cj = iu ja 

5 s .S o ^ 

g" g^^ 2 en 


i 


1 ^ ^J 

S - - d E W .5 




5 


fa fa fa fa fa fa c/i q W ;; 


1 g" Ills'! 

3 "^ ^ o '-S cL"S 

> ^> D V) 


c 
'c 

1 

"1 

O. 


1 H 1 || ||g || 

.;: T3 T3 .S . .-s 
S.S'1.1 1 S||i|g w S 

g.2g| | |.|SJ|.2-i ^|a 


C u -G ^ G 
rt .S rt C 8 

, v, M "s 8 *!^ 

C^ j2 b/) uT - 

"cos." S S 2 -2? 
o tfl o a, ^JSCCL 


S! 

o 


rt | f 




i 


"o "-' 


1 1 1 


,2 


r2 3 r2 'H ^ 


T3 




1 rt -< : " < ^ " " " 


< 




So " So 







**U T3 




o 


C C 


1 III 


5 


73 T3 T3 T3 














rt 
'O 


.1 






rt 


1 1 1 1 1 + + + 1 


-f- 1 ? 1 


A 











1 


I 


+ + + + + + + + , 


1 + 1 1 




:.:: I : | jjg i 


<3 3 "e3 ' " 

g 2. 




= : : 1 i } Ijl : 


1 rt 
6 s > ; ; 

^ c c 




<-> ^J ^ rt -r 

'S = ^ - S e r 


51 w c ."-> 


pl| 


.* ^-^ -^ T3 .2 .S c 


"Q *^ C 5 


1 


5 ^C tn o "^ C 


go'il i : 




5 "S -2 -^ x -) rt *> 

~ ** <z> ^qj~ _e w "^ 

^ * < ^ "S "O*;! S 

i I II 01 ! ill* . 

'i 1- 1 5 ^-^ 2 5ns5 

^ ^ .^^ -o-g^.S^ 


2-c'5 s 

lili i I 

'C C ^ v3 o ^ 
~ rt t3 ^ o $ 

nil i * 




CqDqDqOqCqQ^ j> <J CQ c 


*} ^ O Q 



404 YEASTS 

Many of the aerial fungi will not grow at high tem- 
peratures, such as blood heat, though they flourish at 
lower temperatures. 

BLASTOMYCETES (YEASTS). 

Yeasts, or blastomycetes, are frequently found in the 
mucous cavities and occasionally in ulcers or other skin 
lesions. They are distinguished from bacteria not only 
by the method of reproduction but also by their greater 
size. In some species endospores are formed, but these 
are multiple in each cell and not single as in bacteria. 

The yeasts are of considerable interest, as alcoholic 
and other forms of fermentation are due to their agency. 

THE ANALYSIS OF WATER. 

By H. B. G. NEWHAM, M.R.C.S.Eng., D.P.H.Camb., 
D.T.M. and H.Camb. 

The methods employed for the examination of a 
water to determine its suitability or otherwise for drink- 
ing and domestic purposes are usually four in number, 
and it is only by the employment of all these methods 
that a true and accurate opinion can be expressed as to 
the potability and fitness for domestic use of any water 
under consideration. 

These four methods are : 

(1) Physical. 

(2) Biological. 

(3) Bacteriological. 

(4) Chemical. 

By a Physical examination we determine the turbidity, 
colour, odour and taste. 

The Biological examination enables one to determine 
the presence or absence of many lowly organisms, bac- 
terial and protozoal, and the ova and larvae of intestinal 
worms and other parasites. 

The Bacteriological examination is of the utmost i m 



WATER ANALYSIS IRON 405 

portance. By this means pathogenic bacteria, if present, 
may usually be detected, or bacteria may be found, the 
presence of which points conclusively to sewage pollu- 
tion. 

The Chemical examination of water will frequently give 
sufficient data on which to condemn a water for pota- 
bility or domestic usage. 

In any chemical analysis of water the principal chemi- 
cal substances which have to be sought for, and if found, 
quantitatively estimated, are as follows : 

(i) Poisonous metals; (2) Free ammonia; (3) Albu- 
minoid ammonia ; (4) Nitrates ; (5) Nitrites ; (6) Chlo- 
rides ; (7) Hardness. 

Metals in the form of salts are occasionally found in 
water. Chief among these are iron and lead, and more 
rarely copper, zinc, tin and arsenic. 

The usual tests for these metals are as follows : 

Iron (Qualitative). Place 50 cc. of the water in a 
white porcelain dish. Next dip a clean glass rod into 
ammonium sulphide and draw the rod through the water 
in the dish. If iron is present a dark colouration or 
streak will be formed along the track of the rod, and will 
be more or less intense in colour, according to the 
amount of iron present in the sample. A few drops of 
hydrochloric acid, if added, will discharge this colour- 
ation. 

Iron (Quantitative). Place 50 cc. of the sample water 
in a Nessler glass : next add one or two drops of ammo- 
nium sulphide. This will produce a brownish-black 
colouration. Into a second Nessler glass measure 50 cc. 
of distilled water, adding one or two drops of ammonium 
sulphide, and carefully run into this mixture from a 
burette, drop by drop, a standard solution of ferric chlo- 
ride, of such a strength that i cc. equals i mgm. of Fe, 
until the colour matches that of the water sample. Note 
the quantity of standard solution used, and by a simple 
calculation the number of milligrammes of Fe in the 
50 cc. of sample water may easily be determined. 



406 LEAD COPPER 

The result should be expressed in parts per 100,000. 

The standard iron solution is prepared by dissolving 
1*0004 grammes of iron wire in nitro-hydrochloric acid, 
precipitate with ammonia, wash and re-dissolve the ferric 
oxide in a little pure HC1 and dilute to ten litres. 
i cc. of this solution equals i mgm. of Fe. 

Iron, although hardly a poisonous metal, if in con- 
siderable quantities in a water, renders it unsuitable for 
drinking purposes owing to its nauseous taste. Any 
water containing more than i grain of Fe per gallon is 
unfit for use. 

Lead (Qualitative). This test is performed in the same 
way as the one described for the detection of iron. The 
brownish-black colouration produced is, however, un- 
altered by the addition of a few drops of HC1 and of 
KCN. 

Lead (Quantitative). The estimation of the amount of 
lead present is made in the same manner as that described 
for iron, by substituting a standard solution of lead 
acetate for the standard solution of ferric chloride used 
in the estimation of that metal. 

Standard lead solution is made by dissolving with the 
aid of acetic acid 1-83 grammes of lead acetate in ten 
litres of distilled water, i cc. of this solution equals i 
mgm. of Pb. 

Copper (Qualitative). The presence of this metal is 
detected by the same means as have been described for 
the detection of iron and lead. The colouration pro- 
duced is unchanged on the addition of HC1, but is 
destroyed on adding KCX. 

Copper (Quantitative). Place 50 cc. of the sample 
water in a Nessler glass and add a few drops of HC1, 
and sufficient of a solution of potassium ferrocyanide 
to produce the maximum colouration. Into a second 
Nessler glass measure 50 cc. of distilled water, and add 
from a burette, drop by drop, a sufficient amount of 
a standard solution of copper sulphate to match the 
colour in the first glass. By noting the amount of 



ZINC TIN 407 

standard solution used to produce this result, it is easy 
to determine the amount of copper present in the sample. 

Standard solution of copper sulphate is made by dis- 
solving 3 '95 grammes of copper sulphate in ten litres of 
distilled water, i cc. of this solution equals 'i mgm. of 
Cu. 

Zinc (Qualitative). Place 10 cc. of the sample water in 
a test tube and add a few drops of ammonium hydrate to 
render it slightly ammoniacal. Boil and filter. A few 
drops of potassium ferrocyanide added to the filtrate will 
give a white gelatinous precipitate of zinc ferrocyanide if 
zinc be present. 

Zinc (Quantitative). A measured quantity of the water, 
concentrated if necessary, is treated with a few drops of 
ammonium sulphide, causing a precipitate of sulphide 
of zinc. This precipitate is collected by filtration, well 
washed with dilute ammonium sulphide, dried, ignited 
at a bright red heat, cooled and weighed as zinc oxide 
(ZnO X 0-8 - Zn) 

Tin (Qualitative). Evaporate one litre of the water to 
a small bulk, acidulate with HC1 and saturate with H 2 S 
in a white porcelain dish. A yellow precipitate of stannic 
sulphide, in the absence of other heavy metals, would 
indicate the presence of tin. 

As confirmatory evidence the Brucine test as here 
described may be used : 

A solution of Brucine prepared as follows is required : 
5 grammes of Brucine are dissolved in 5 cc. of pure 
HNO 3 in the cold, 250 cc. of water is added and the 
whole boiled for fifteen minutes. Sufficient water is 
afterwards added to make the total bulk up to 250 cc. 
100 cc. of the water to be tested is taken and evaporated 
to dryness. The residue -is dissolved in a few drops of 
distilled water and i cc. of the brucine solution is added. 
If tin be present, a reddish-violet colour will be produced. 

Tin (Quantitative). One litre of the water is taken and 
slowly evaporated on a water bath to a small bulk (say 
50 cc.). 



408 ARSENIC AMMONIA 

This is then acidulated with HC1 and finally saturated 
with H 2 S. Tin, if present, will then be precipitated as 
yellow stannic sulphide. 

This precipitate is collected and treated with strong 
nitric acid, forming meta-stannic acid. This product is 
then ignited, producing stannic oxide. 

By weighing this oxide the amount of tin present in 
the water used can be estimated (SnO 2 x 0785 = Sn). 

Tin is more frequently found in meat essences and 
food contained in tins. The contents must be evapo- 
rated to dryness and ignited. An excess of HC1 should 
then be added and again evaporated to dryness. The 
residue is dissolved in water acidified with HC1 and 
saturated with H 2 S. 

Arsenic. To detect arsenic in water a litre of the water 
is rendered alkaline by solid sodium carbonate, evapo- 
rated nearly to dryness and then introduced into Marsh's 
apparatus. 

Any water in which any of these metals, except iron, 
are detected, should be unhesitatingly condemned. 

The determination of free ammonia, albuminoid am- 
monia, nitrates, nitrites and chlorides, is of importance, 
as these substances, if in considerable amount, usually 
indicate contamination with organic matter, possibly 
sewage. In moderate quantities they are not themselves 
injurious. 

Free. Ammonia. The method used for the estimation 
of this substance is a colorimetric one, and is known as 
Wanklyn's process. 

Into a glass distilling flask, of about a litre capacity, 
connected with a condenser, pour 500 cc. of the water 
and add a pinch of sodium carbonate and a small piece of 
pumice-stone. The flask is then heated over a Bunsen 
flame, and three Nessler glasses, of 50 cc. each of the 
distillate, are collected. This amount of distillate, viz., 
150 cc., is found to be sufficient to obtain all the free 
ammonia in any sample of water. 

Into the first of these distillates 2 cc. of Nessler's solu- 



AMMONIA 409 

tion are introduced from a burette, when a yellow colour 
will be produced of a greater or lesser intensity, accord- 
ing to the amount of free ammonia present. This 
colouration is then matched in another Nessler glass, 
using distilled water, 2 cc. of Nessler's solution, and to 
this a sufficient measured quantity of a standard solu- 
tion of ammonium chloride is added till the coloura- 
tion matches. This standard solution is made by dis- 
solving 3*14 grammes of anhydrous ammonium chloride 
in a litre of distilled water, again diluted one hundred 
times, so that I cc. of the resultant fluid = -01 mgm. of 
ammonia. 

The second and third distillates are treated in the 
same way, and the total amount of standard solution of 
NH 4 C1 used, is noted. 

As each cc. of standard solution equals *oi mgm. of 
NH 3 , it is a simple matter to calculate the amount of free 
ammonia present in the original 500 cc. of water taken, 
and from that to express the result in parts per 100,000. 

Xessler's solution is prepared as follows : 

To 800 cc. of distilled water are added 35 grammes of 
potassium iodide and 13 grammes of perchloride of 
mercury. This is then boiled and well stirred until the 
salts are dissolved. Cold, saturated solution, of HgCl 2 , 
is next added, until a permanent red precipitate appears. 
120 grammes of sodium hydrate are now added and the 
whole made up to i litre with water. The solution is 
then rendered sensitive by the addition of a little more 
of the solution of HgCl 2 . 

Albuminoid Ammonia. To the residue left in the dis- 
tilling flask after the last process add 50 cc. of alkaline 
permanganate solution (KoMnO 4 8 grammes, NaOH 200 
grammes, to a litre of distilled water), and proceed to 
distil over as before, continuing the operation until no 
more ammonia comes over. 

The determination of the amount of ammonia in this 
case is conducted in precisely the same manner as for 
the free ammonia. 



410 



NITRITES 



Xitritcs (Qualitative). Make, with distilled water, a 5 
per cent, solution of meta-phenylene diamine. 

Decolourise by shaking up with animal charcoal and 
filter. The solution should now be colourless. If this 
is not so, repeat the treatment with animal charcoal until 
such result is obtained. 

To 100 cc. of the sample water in a Nessler glass add 
a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid and then about i cc. 
of the meta-phenylene diamine solution, and place the 
glass in a warm place for half an hour. By the end of 
that time a yellow colour will be produced if the water 
contains nitrites. 

Nitrites (Quantitative). A standard solution of potas- 
sium nitrite is used of such a strength that i cc. equals 
01 mgm. N. This is made by dissolving ri grammes of 
pure silver nitrite in boiling distilled water. To this is 
added KC1, which precipitates the silver as AgCl. The 
whole is then made up to one litre and the silver allowed 
to settle. From the clear supernatant liquid 100 cc. are 
taken and made up to a litre with distilled water. This 
solution will be of the required strength. 

By using this standard solution the colour produced in 
the 100 cc. of sample water with the meta-phenylene 
diamine may be exactly matched in the same quantity 
of distilled water. Knowing the amount of standard 
solution required to produce this result, a simple calcula- 
tion is then all that is needed to determine the amount of 
nitrites in the water subjected to analysis. 

Nitrates (Qualitative). Take 10 cc. of the sample water 
in a test tube and to this add about i cc. of a saturated 
solution of brucine and well mix by shaking. Now 
carefully introduce down the side of the tube with 
a pipette about 2 cc. of pure sulphuric acid, so that the 
acid forms a distinct layer beneath the mixture of water 
and brucine. If nitrates are present in the water under 
examination, a pink ring changing to one of a brownish- 
yellow colour will be seen at the junction of the two 
liquids. 



NITRATES 41 I 

Nitrates (Quantitative). The most convenient way of 
estimating the amount of nitrates in a water is by the 
process known as the phenol sulphonic acid method. 

For this the following solutions are required : 

(1) Phenol Sulphonic Acid. This is made by mixing 12 
grammes of pure phenol with 6 cc. of distilled water and 
74 cc. of pure sulphuric acid, and digesting the mixture 
for two hours at 100 C. 

(2) Standard solution of Potassium Nitrate. Made by 
dissolving 722 grammes of dried potassium nitrate in 
one litre of distilled water, i cc. of this equals 'i mgm. N. 

The process is thus carried out : 10 cc. of the sample 
water and 10 cc. of the standard solution of potassium 
nitrate are evaporated separately to dryness in two 
porcelain dishes over a water bath. 

To each of the residues i cc. of the phenol sulphonic 
acid is added, and the dishes allowed to remain on the 
bath for a few minutes. 

The contents of the dishes are now washed out succes- 
sively with about 20 cc. of distilled water into two Nessler 
glasses, and 20 cc. of liquor ammoniae added to each, the 
whole amount of liquid in each glass being made up to 
100 cc. with distilled water. 

Any nitrates in the solutions act on the phenol sul- 
phonic acid, converting it into picric acid, which is again 
turned by the ammonia into ammonium picrate. This 
gives a yellow colour to the solution, the intensity of the 
same being proportional to the amount of nitrate present. 
Now take a third Nessler glass and pipette into it a 
sufficient quantity of the darker solution, which when 
diluted with distilled water up to 100 cc. will exactly 
match in colour the more lightly coloured solution. 
Assuming that 5 cc. of the contents of the Nessler glass 
containing the standard solution when diluted up to 
100 cc. exactly match the water sample, then the latter 
must contain T o of 10 cc. of standard solution. 

That is to say, 10 cc. of the sample water contains an 
amount of nitrates equivalent to that contained in -5 cc. 



412 CHLORIDES 

of the standard solution. The exact strength of the latter 
being known, it is easy to work out the parts per 100,000 
of nitrates in the water under consideration. 

Chlorides (Qualitative). To 50 cc. of the water in a 
Nessler glass add a few drops of nitric acid and then a 
little silver nitrate solution. If chlorides are present this 
gives a white haze, or a precipitate if they are abundant. 

Chlorides (Quantitative). Two reagents are used in the 
estimation of chlorides. 

(1) A 5 per cent, solution of potassium chromate. 

(2) A standard solution of silver nitrate, made by dis- 
solving 4'8 grammes of AgNO 3 in a litre of distilled 
water. I cc. of this solution = i mgm. Cl. 

Place 100 cc. of the water under examination in a 
white porcelain dish, and add i cc. of the KCrO 4 solu- 
tion and stir. Whilst constantly stirring with a glass 
rod, run in from a burette, drop by drop, the silver 
nitrate solution, until the yellow colour becomes per- 
manently orange. Now read off on the burette the 
amount of silver nitrate solution used, and calculate 
from this the amount of chlorides present in the sample 
water. 

Hardness in the water is either temporary or perma- 
nent. The temporary hardness, which may be got rid 
of by boiling, is produced by calcium carbonate and 
magnesium carbonate, held in solution by the action of 
CO.,. The permanent hardness consists principally of 
some sulphates, chlorides and nitrates of calcium and 
magnesium. 

The total hardness is the sum total of both the tem- 
porary and permanent hardness. 

The usual way of estimating the amount of total hard- 
ness is by the application of what is known as Clark's 
process. 

A standard soap solution, made with equal parts of 
spirit and water, is used, of such a strength that i cc. 
exactly neutralises i mgm. of calcium carbonate. 

Take 100 cc. of the sample water in a 200 cc. stoppered 



HARDNESS 413 

bottle, and run in the soap solution i cc. at a time, 
shaking well after each addition, until a lather inch 
thick remains unbroken for five minutes. Read off the 
number of cc. of soap solution used and deduct i cc., as 
being necessary for the production of a lather in 100 cc. 
of distilled water. The remainder will then give the 
amount of hardness present, expressed in parts per 
100,000. 

In expressing an opinion as to the suitability or other- 
wise of any water for drinking or domestic purposes, a 
careful survey of all the factors revealed by the chemical 
analysis must be made, combined with a critical exami- 
nation of the source of the supply and of all vessels used 
in the storage of the same. 

It is impossible to lay down any hard and fast standard 
of purity for a water, and every case must be judged on 
its merits. 

Briefly, it may be stated that any water containing any 
nitrites, indicating recent pollution, should be condemned 
forthwith. The same applies to any water containing 
any poisonous metal. 

The amount of hardness in water varies between wide 
limits. A figure representing thirty or more degrees 
of total hardness would condemn a water as unfit for 
drinking or domestic purposes, unless that figure could 
be considerably reduced by a suitable process of soften- 
ing. 

The amount of both free and albuminoid ammonia, 
unless in exceptional abundance, does not necessarily 
condemn a water. Some waters, e.g., rain water, may 
give a high figure for free ammonia, but the albuminoid 
ammonia will be small. On the other hand, peaty water 
may give a figure as high as -01 per 100,000 for the 
albuminoid ammonia, but the free ammonia present 
will, in the absence of pollution, be practically a negli- 
gible quantity. 

In all cases where the figures for either or both of the 
ammonias are high, these must be considered, in con- 



414 INTERPRETATIONS 

junction with the figures of the nitrates and chlorides, 
before giving an opinion. A water containing, say, '005 
parts per 100,000 or more free ammonia, and *oi parts 
per 100,000 or more of albuminoid ammonia, should 
excite grave suspicion. If, at the same time, the figures 
obtained for chlorides and nitrates were also high, e.g., 
Cl 5 parts per 100,000, and nitrates -4 parts per 100,000, 
such water should be unhesitatingly condemned. 

A high chloride figure must always be carefully investi- 
gated, as it may indicate contamination with sewage or 
urine. Many waters contain considerable quantities of 
chlorides, as in waters derived from the lower green- 
sands, and deep down in the chalk, which are harmless. 
An exceptionally high figure for chlorides in a well near 
the sea indicates that the same is polluted by the sea 
water, and the water therefrom is unfit for use. 

REFERENCES. 

NOTTER, " Theory and Practice of Hygiene." 
SOMERVILLE, " Practical Sanitary Science." 
WHITELEGGE, " Hygiene and Public Health." 
FRESENIUS, " Quantitative Analysis." 
SUTTON, "Volumetric Analysis." 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

MEASUREMENTS. 

MEASUREMENTS of the various eggs, parasites and 
normal and abnormal cells, are of considerable import- 
ance and are easily made. 

The simplest and most satisfactory method of micro- 
scopic measurement is by drawing to scale, which can 
be readily done by the use of a camera lucida or draw- 
ing camera. A micromillimetre scale is used as an object, 
and with the microscope vertical or inclined on appro- 
priate angle, depending on the form of camera used, the 
scale as it appears through the camera lucida is drawn on 
a piece of paper. Cowers' haemocytometer slide, which 
is divided into ^ mm., or Thoma-Zeiss, which is divided 
into ^\y mm., may be used instead of the micromillimetre 
scale, or any other will suffice. This drawing of j- 1 ^ mm. 
must be further subdivided by compasses. This gives the 
scale, and it must be determined for each objective. 
Provided that the distance of the paper from the camera 
lucida is constant, which is best ensured by working 
with the microscope vertical and the paper on the table, 
a scale once drawn can always be used. 

The tube must always be the same length. 

To measure an object all that is needed is an outline 
drawing through the same camera lucida, and the appli- 
cation of the scale to this drawing will give the measure- 
ments. 

Another simple method is by the use of a micrometer 
eye-piece, which consists of a glass disc on which a 
scale is drawn, and this is placed in the eye-piece so as 



416 MEASUREMENTS 

to be accurately in focus by the anterior lens. The disc 
rests on the diaphragm, which can be moved so that the 
scale is sharply focussed. A measured scale is then 
placed on the stage. As before, Cowers', or Thoma- 
Zeiss haemocytometer scale may be used instead of the 
micromillimetre scale, and the number of the divisions 
in the micrometer eye-piece, which correspond to ^ or 
fa millimetre, or a multiple of these, with the different 
objectives is noted. With the tube at constant length the 
value of the divisions in the micrometer eye-piece so deter- 
mined is constant for each objective. In measuring, the 
object to be examined is placed under the microscope and 
the measurements in terms of the micrometer scale deter- 
mined, and from these the real measurements calculated. 

For simple diameters, the micrometer eye-piece is 
perhaps the most convenient, but for irregularly-shaped 
bodies, and particularly for such objects as filaria, the 
use of the camera lucida is easier, quicker and more 
accurate. 

By either of these methods all that is required to 
measure an object, once the scales are made, or the 
equivalent in micromillimetres of the eye-piece scale 
determined, is to change the ordinary eye-piece either 
for the camera lucida or for the eye-piece containing the 
micrometer scale. 

Measurements may be represented as decimals or 
fractions of a millimetre, but in many ways it is more 
convenient to take as the standard j^ of a millimetre 
a micromillimetre usually indicated by the Greek /j,. 

If no scale is available to standardise the micrometer 
eye-piece or drawings, results by relative measurements 
can be taken and subsequently standardised. A con- 
venient rough standard is the average diameter of a red 
corpuscle, which is about 7 8 p. 

Estimation of the Number of Corpuscles. For the deter- 
mination of the number of elements in a given volume of 
fluid, as for instance the number of red or white cor- 
puscles in blood, it is usually necessary to dilute such a 



)OD COUN' 

fluid to a known extent so that the number of elements 
in any given volume can be counted. 

Such a dilution may be made in a graduated pipette 
by drawing up a given volume of fluid and as many more 
volumes of a diluting fluid as is necessary, and mixing 
well. Such a mixture can also be conveniently made 
in Wright's tubes, as the absolute volume is immaterial ; 
all that is required is any volume and definite multi- 
plications of that volume in order to get the degree of 
dilution. 

Common instruments used for the purpose are the 
pipettes of the Thoma-Zeiss haemocytometer (fig. 153). 
These are so graduated as to give a dilution of i in 10 
or i in 100, but can be used to give dilutions at 
intervals of 10 from i in 10 to i in 100, and in intervals 
of 100 from i in 100 to i in 1,000, 

These tubes are convenient, and the glass bead in the 
mixing chamber facilitates mixing and prevents the 
aggregation of corpuscles into masses. The diluting 
fluid, when working with blood, must be carefully 
selected according to the object to be attained. If red 
corpuscles are to be counted the fluid must be isotonic 
or hypertonic, so as to prevent the red corpuscles being 
broken up. Such fluids as sod. sulph. 10 per cent, are 
suitable. 

In many cases it is convenient to count the white 
corpuscles at the same time, and in that case stains are 
mixed with the diluting fluid, which stain the leucocytes 
and enable them to be readily distinguished. Toisson's 
fluid, viz., glycerine 30 c.cm., sodium sulphate 8 grammes, 
sodium chloride i gramme, methyl violet "025 gramme, 
and water 160 c.cm., is very convenient for this purpose, 
but must be filtered each time before use. In other 
cases where it is not desired to count the red corpuscles 
and where these may render the enumeration of other 
elements more difficult, it is better to destroy them. To 
ensure their destruction it is advisable to use a more 
powerfully destructive agent than distilled water, and 
weak acetic acid is the one generally employed. 
27 



418 



BLOOD COUNTS 



Leucocytes, &c., can be readily counted in blood only 
slightly diluted when treated in this manner. 

However the dilution is made the next essential is to 
obtain a definite measured volume of the diluted fluid. 
This is done by having a cell which, when covered with 
a cover-glass, has a definite known depth. It is also 
further necessary to be able to estimate the area of the 
base of this cell'or of the portion of it examined. In 
Gowers' and in Thoma-Zeiss' hcemocytometer (fig. 153) 
this area is determined by having the slide ruled in 
squares with sides T ^ and ^j of a millimetre respectively, 



E O :.'...!.. 1 J A.^ j 





o 


0100mm. I 


C. Zeiss 


4bH mm - 

^s 


Jena. 



FIG. 153. THOMA'S H/EMOCYTOMETER, BY ZEISS. 

so that the area is obtained by multiplying the sides of 
the squares by each other, and this multiplied by the 
known depth of the cell, i.e., the space between the 
cover-glass and slide, gives the volume of the fluid 
examined. 

Instead of these squares others use a micrometer eye- 
piece ruled in squares. The size of these squares is 
determined by comparison with a scale under the micro- 
scope once for all. 

In examining fluid for elements that are scanty it is 
often a saving of time to take the whole field as the area 
to be examined. 



BLOOD COUNTS 419 

This area is most conveniently determined by obtain- 
ing the diameter of the field by observing the number 
of divisions of a scale a haemocytometer scale again 
will do that form the diameter. To avoid fractions of 
a division the tube should be drawn out till the diameter 
is exactly a certain number of divisions, and, as pointed 
out by Griinbaum, much calculation can be avoided by 
drawing the tube out till the number of divisions is a 
multiple of 10. 

The formula, TT r 2 , then gives the area of the circular 
field. The depth of the cell is known, so that this area 
multiplied by the known depth gives the volume of 
fluid examined in one field, and this multiplied by the 
number of fields examined gives the total volume of 
diluted fluid examined. The volume of original fluid 
examined is obtained by dividing by the number express- 
ing the degree of dilution. 

Dilution is merely for convenience and to render 
counting practicable. In an undiluted fluid, such as 
blood, the number of corpuscles in a small area, say 
Y^ mm. square, would be some hundreds, and therefore 
difficult to count, but by diluting 100 times the number 
will be reduced in that area to a dozen or less, a con- 
venient number for counting. 

In these calculations it is well to avoid the exclusive 
use of formulae. A formula is easily forgotten, or only 
in part remembered, and confusion and error result. 
If the calculations are made on general principles there 
is a little waste of time, but the possibility of error is 
avoided. The dilution is made to a known extent ten 
times, a hundred times, or so on, as is judged to be 
convenient. A known volume of the diluted fluid is 
examined, represented by either the area of the field 
multiplied by the depth of the cell, or the area of the 
marked squares on the slide multiplied by the depth of 
the cell or the area of the square as seen in the micro- 
meter eye-piece (previously determined) multiplied by the 
depth of the cell. 



420 BLOOD COUNTS 

The number of elements which it is wished to have 
counted is determined in a certain number of these 
volumes of fluids, and the average is taken by dividing 
the total number by the number of volumes examined. 
The larger the number of volumes taken the smaller is 
the probable error. 

All the factors necessary for the calculation are thus 
determined, and all that is necessary is to reduce them 
to comparable terms, so that the results obtained can be 
compared with other results. The number of elements 
is usually recorded as so many per cubic millimetre of 
undiluted fluid. 

For example, suppose the blood has been diluted two 
hundred times, and in the area of 400 squares of a Thoma- 
Zeiss haemocytometer there are counted 2,500 red blood 
corpuscles, or an average of 2 ^ = 6-25 per square. 

Now each square is ^ mm., X ^b mm., and the depth 
of the cell is -$ mm., therefore one square represents -^ 
X ire X A c.mm. of the diluted fluid. 

If in 4^\nj c.mm. of the diluted fluid there are 6*25 
corpuscles. 

Then in i c.mm. of the diluted fluid there are 6^25 X 
4,000 corpuscles. And as the blood has been diluted two 
hundred times, in i c.mm. of the blood there are 6*25 X 
4,000 X 200 = 5,000,000 red blood corpuscles. 

The number of blood corpuscles in a cubic millimetre 
of blood may be calculated from the formula 



in which M. = the number of corpuscles counted, N. = 
the dilution of the blood, and q = the number of small 
squares counted. 

This assumes that the elements are uniformly diffused 
through the fluid, and every effort must be made to 
ensure this being the case. For blood there must be no 
delay, and the blood must be mixed with the diluent as 
quickly and thoroughly as possible. Many of the ele- 
ments in the blood and other animal fluids are adhesive 
and tend to adhere in clumps. If these clumps are 
present any result obtained will be unreliable 



BLOOD COUNTS 



4 2I 



Counts of red blood corpuscles are necessary in cases 
of anaemia. In some forms of anaemia the number of 
corpuscles is not reduced and may even be above normal. 
In these cases the haemoglobin is much reduced, so that 
on the average each corpuscle is poor in haemoglobin. 
Chlorosis is the type of this form of anaemia. 

In others and the more common forms of anaemia, in the 
tropics, the number of red corpuscles is greatly reduced, 
sometimes to -ny of the normal 5,000,000, and commonly 
to between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000. In these forms of 
anaemia the haemoglobin is reduced only to about the 
same extent as the number of the corpuscles, so that, 
on the average, each red corpuscle contains about the 
normal amount of haemoglobin. Pernicious ancvmia is 
the type of this form of anaemia. 

In the anaemia resulting from haemoglobin uric fever 
the number of the red corpuscles is very rapidly reduced, 
so that in the course of three days the red corpuscles 



fall from 5,000,000 to 1,000,000, or even less, per 
c.mm. of blood. In malaria it is unusual to find any 
decided diminution of red corpuscles as the result of 
an acute attack of malaria, though repeated attacks 
may cause a considerable degree of anaemia of this 
type. 

In ancliylostomiasis in most cases there is a great 
reduction in the number of red corpuscles, so great in 
chronic progressive cases, that only 500,000 red cor- 
puscles may be found on a cubic millimetre. There is 
often, however, an even greater fall in the haemoglobin ; 
so that though in the main this form of anaemia is of 
the type of pernicious anaemia, in some cases it is of 
a mixed nature. 

The forms of anaemia of the pernicious anaemia type 
are usually due to blood destruction or hcemolysis. In 
such forms of anaemia pigment and iron deposits are 
found in the cells of the liver, kidneys, &c. 

Various chemical agents can cause haemolysis, and it 
occurs as a result of the action of various organisms and 
animal parasites. 



422 LEUCOCYTES COUNTS 

The total leucocyte counts should be supplemented by a 
differential count of the leucocytes in a well-stained 
film (vide p. 56). By the combination of these methods 
the number of leucocytes of each variety in a cubic milli- 
metre of blood can be determined. 

Increase in the total number of the leucocytes occurs 
in many diseases ; it is known as leucocytosis. Diminu- 
tion in the number of leucocytes leucopenia is of less 
importance unless marked, but occurs in some stages of 
malaria, in kala-azar and other diseases. Leucocytosis 
is marked in most cases of pneumonia, and the amount 
of leucocytosis increases with the severity of the case to a 
certain extent. In the most severe attacks, however, there 
may be no leucocytosis, and therefore the absence of this 
condition is of even more unfavourable prognosis than a 
most marked manifestation of it. 

In septic conditions, appendicitis with suppuration, 
hepatic abscess, septic endocarditis, &c., there is well- 
marked leucocytosis, though not to the same extent as 
in some cases of pneumonia. A great increase also 
occurs in scurvy (vide table 5, in appendix). 

Even in health there is a considerable variation 7,000 
to 10,000 in the number of leucocytes, and daily a varia- 
tion occurs owing to the increase in the lymphocytes 
during active digestion. 

It is not usual for the variation in the number of the 
different forms of leucocytes to be increased uniformly. 
Usually some forms are increased and others either 
increased to a much smaller extent or even diminished. 

In pneumonia the increase is mainly that of the poly- 
morphonuclear leucocytes, whilst the eosinophile leuco- 
cytes are not only in smaller proportion but in smaller 
numbers than in normal blood. After an attack of 
malaria the leucocytes are usually in normal number, as 
the larger mononuclear leucocytes are increased and the 
polymorphonuclear leucocytes diminished. 

If in addition to the normal white corpuscles other 
cellular elements are present in considerable number 



BLOOD COUNTS 423 

in the blood, such as myelocytes, this indicates a definite 
blood disease 

If two diseases, such as pneumonia and malaria, co- 
exist in the patient, the influence of the one disease 
appears to overpower the other, so that the leucocytic 
variation of pneumonia only will be present. 

A variation in the total amount of blood in the body 
no doubt occurs in certain diseases, but there is no simple 
practical method of determining such variations. 

To enumerate the larger parasites, such as filarial 
embryos, no dilution is required. A measured quantity 
of blood is taken up in a pipette and blown out on to a 
slide. This blood is spread out and allowed to dry and 
decolourise by placing in water. The total number of 
filarial embryos can then be counted and reduced to the 
proportion per c.mm. This is a matter of no difficulty 
and the only method to be relied on. Substitutes that 
are often employed are to make a thick dry blood film a 
certain size, or to use cover-glasses of a definite size in 
making fluid films, or to make a certain number of drops 
of blood in making the film. These methods as substitutes 
for direct measurement are inferior, and results arrived at 
by these methods have little value. 

The use of measured amounts of blood, decolourised 
and stained, for the estimation of malarial parasites is 
not to be recommended. The results are unreliable with 
these parasites, as so many are broken up during the 
process. An approximation to the number present can 
be obtained by first estimating the number of leucocytes 
present per c.mm., and then taking a fluid fresh film of the 
blood and determining the relative number of parasites 
to leucocytes in the film. If, for instance, ten parasites 
are found in this film and 100 leucocytes, there will be 
one parasite to ten leucocytes, and if the number of 
leucocytes determined separately is found to be 8,000 
per c.mm., then the number of parasites should be one- 
tenth of this, or 800 per c.mm. 

The results are approximate only, as leucocytes are 



424 COUNTS OF MICRO-ORGANISMS 

not uniformly distributed in the fluid film. The relative 
numerical proportion of the parasites to leucocytes, if 
determined in a dry film, is far more inaccurate, as the 
distribution of the leucocytes is so unequal in such a 
film, and many of the leucocytes adhere to the needle, 
slide, or paper used in making the film. The leucocytes 
in a thin part of the field, such as is used for the observa- 
tion of parasites, will be from one-half to about one-tenth 
of the proper amount, and the error from this cause in 
counting the parasites will therefore vary to the same 
extent. An approximation can also be obtained by de- 
termining the average number of parasites in a field. If 
the average number of red corpuscles in the same field 
is also determined the method is of value, but it is 
tedious. 

In fluids other than blood, where parasites, including 
bacteria, are numerous and minute, Wright suggests 
mixing this fluid with an equal quantity of blood diluted 
so that the number of corpuscles per c.mm. is known. 
The relative proportions of the parasites to the blood 
corpuscles, as determined by making a dried him of the 
mixture and staining it, will then enable us to estimate 
the number of organisms present in any given quantity 
of the fluid. 

The more usual method of estimating the number of 
living bacilli in a fluid, is to take a measured volume of the 
fluid and add to it a measured quantity of liquefied 
gelatine and to plate it. The number of colonies found 
in this plate will give the number of organisms in the 
volume of fluid taken. If the colonies are too numerous 
the number found in any measured area may be counted, 
and this result reduced to terms of the total area of the 
plate. If the number of organisms is very great a second 
or third dilution, always with measured amounts of the 
fluid and gelatine, may be necessary. 

For air determination a measured amount of air is 
driven through liquefied gelatine, which is plated, and the 
number of colonies estimated as before. 



COLORIMETRIC ESTIMATIONS 



425 



earth or solids these must be finely divided and 
weighed amounts taken. 

It is essential that the plates should be accurately 
levelled, and as much of the plate as possible should be 
counted. Agar plates may be used, and for complete 
investigation incubated at various temperatures. Other 
plates should also be made and incubated aerobically and 
anaerobically. 

The numerical estimation of eggs in faeces hardly 
admits of practical application, as the amount of water 




FIG. 154. OLIVER'S TINTOMETER. 



&c., in the faeces varies so greatly and eggs are not uni- 
formly distributed. Here loose terms, such as numerous, 
very numerous, moderate number, or few, are more in 
accordance with the amount of information available 
than a numerical estimate can be, though it may have 
a superficial appearance of exactness. 

.Colorimetric Estimations are not very accurate. They 
are, however, the only simple methods that can be used 
with rapidity and ease. They are all based on the com- 
parison of the diluted fluid with a substance standardised 
as regards colour. The principle adopted is to so arrange 



426 



HEMOGLOBIN 



matters that the equality in tint, or " matching," of the 
two objects compared is obtained, as equality in tint can 
be determined more exactly than degrees of difference. 

In such colorimetric examinations the same source 
of light must invariably be used, and for general pur- 
poses artificial, particularly candle-light, is to be pre- 
ferred, as colours seen by one light will not match when 
viewed with another light. 

The methods most used for blood work are Gowers' 
haemoglobinometer and its modifications, in which gela- 




FIG. 155. GOWERS' HAEMOGLOBINOMETER. 



tine coloured with picro-carmine is used as the standard 
colour and standardised so as to represent a certain 
percentage i per cent. of haemoglobin, and von 
Fleischl's has mo meter and its modifications, in which a 
wedge of tinted glass is used as a standard, this being 
moved till the thickness of the wedge is such that the 
depth of colour equalises that of a definite depth of the 
fluid to be examined. In Oliver's method (fig. 154), a 
series of graded depths of coloured discs are used as the 
standard. The colour produced is compared with these 
standard colours by mixing a definite fixed quantity of 
blood in a glass cell of fixed depth and capacity with 
water placed on a white plaster disc. 



HEMOGLOBIN 427 

For all these methods it is necessary that the blood 
corpuscles should be broken up and the haemoglobin 
be in solution. This can be done by dilution with dis- 
tilled water, or, better, by dilution with a i per cent, 
aqueous solution of carbonate of soda. 

In Gowers' method (fig. 155) the standard colour is 
equivalent to that of normal blood diluted so as to 
represent i per cent, of haemoglobin dissolved in water. 



K 
-P 




FIG. 156. VON FLEISCHL'S H^EMOMETER. 

The fluid to be estimated is placed in a cylinder, or, 
better, in a flattened tube exactly similar to that con- 
taining the standard, and is diluted drop by drop till 
the two colours are matched. The tube is graduated so 
that the degree of dilution can be read, and the amount 
of dilution necessary to produce the same depth of colour 
indicates the relative amount of haemoglobin as compared 
with the standard. 

In von Fleischl's method (fig. 156) the wedge of 
coloured glass is arranged on a stand and illuminated 



428 HAEMOGLOBIN 

from below by a plaster of Paris disc. Fitting into the 
circular opening of the stage is a metal cylinder with a 
glass bottom, and this cylinder is divided longitudinally 
into two compartments. One is filled with diluted and 
laked blood and the other with water. Under this second 
compartment is the wedge of coloured glass, and this 
wedge is moved horizontally by a rack and pinion till the 
colour corresponds to or matches that of the diluted 
blood. The movement of the wedge is indicated on a 
scale graduated by comparison with haemoglobin solu- 
tions of varying strength, so that the haemoglobin 
equivalent of the portion of the glass wedge in the field 
can be read at once. 

Tallqnist's Hccvioglobiu Scale. This is a scale of colours 
representing the shades of red corresponding to definite 
percentages of haemoglobin. A book of filter papers 
accompanies the scale. 

To estimate the haemoglobin a drop of blood is 
absorbed by the filter paper, and when the gloss has 
passed off this is compared with the scale the number 
opposite the shade of colour which most nearly corre- 
sponds to it gives the percentage of haemoglobin. The 
estimation should be done by daylight. It is not very 
accurate, but the results are about as reliable with this 
method as with any other in common use. It has the 
great advantages of simplicity and quickness of perform- 
ance. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

STATISTICS. 

Statistics. Statistics as reliable as those obtainable in 
England can rarely be obtained in the Tropics, and an 
important source of information is thus wanting. Even 
statistics of births, deaths, and the more important 
diseases, both of Europeans and natives, have to be 
admitted with great caution, and local knowledge of the 
manner in which they are compiled is essential before 
giving them even the slightest consideration. With local 
knowledge the statistics may be very valuable, but even 
then the errors due to selection of statistics, a personal 
equation, greatly reduces their value. 

Statistics for tropical work therefore must, to a great 
extent, be the result of individual work, so that the large 
numbers that European statisticians are accustomed to 
work with are not obtainable. 

It is therefore of the greatest importance at the outset 
that the probable error due to working with small figures 
should be clearly grasped. 

The best method of arriving at the probable error in 
cases where a series of facts is divided into two groups 
is by Poisson's formula : 

If g the total number of cases, 
m = the number in one group, 
And n = the number in the other group, so that in + n = g, 

the proportion of each group to the whole series will 
be respectively ^ and | ; but these proportions will vary 
in succeeding series, and the extent of the variation 



43 POISSON'S FORMULA 

will be within the limits represented by the following 
expression ; 

m , / 2 mn 

g 2 V r 

Obviously, the larger the value of g the less will be 
the value of 2 ^ ^- n , and consequently the less will be 
the limits of error in the simple proportion j, and con- 
versely the smaller the value of g the greater will be 
the limits of error. 

For example, if in 100 cases of beri-beri 10 have 
been fatal, and it is required to determine the limits 
of error in assuming this proportion to hold for the 
next 10,000 cases : 

Applying the formula. Here g = 100, m = 10, n = 90. 

10 I *J 2 x io x 90 

loo ** 100 x 100 x 100 

= To 2 X -0428=4 + -0856 

0856 represents the variations per unit. 

So that in the next 10,000 cases 

There may be 1,000 + 856 = 1,856 deaths ; 
Or, 1,000 - 856= 144 deaths. 

This formula only deals with the mathematical relation- 
ship of the figures: Further allowance has to be made 
for errors of observations and the numerous uncertain 
factors met with in any statistics. 

A mere consideration of the effects of the extent of 
the possible mathematical error in dealing with small 
figures, suffices to indicate the care that is necessary 
and the multitude of observations that are requisite 
before formulating a definite conclusion. In spite of the 
magnitude of this error, of the numerous possibilities 
of errors of observation, and even of the fact that mere 
increase in the number of observations may only multiply 
the same error or doubtful point, as the same source of 
error may be included in each observation, the acquisi- 
tion and use of statistics is of high value, and often 
indicates a correct conclusion. The liability to error 
diminishes but does not destroy this value. 

It is customary to indicate all results in percentages, 



EVIDENCE 431 

and no doubt this method renders comparison easy ; but 
a consideration of the formula of probable error shows 
that i in 4 is by no means the same thing as 25 in 100. 
The number of observations made must be included in 
any account, and whenever possible these observations 
should greatly exceed the 100. The consideration of 
the magnitude of the probable mathematical error under 
the most favourable circumstances should lead to as 
great an exactitude as possible and avoidance of other 
and avoidable sources of error. 

Value of Evidence. Considerable judgment as well 
as caution is requisite in obtaining information other 
than that derived from personal observation. 

As regards occurrence of diseases, parasites, &c., much 
of the information received must be taken with great 
caution, as it is often from laymen and untrained ob- 
servers. Even more in the Tropics than in England 
such persons hold theories either of their own or derived 
from others, and are anxious to bring forward only facts 
which are in support of these theories. 

It is well in making enquiries to be careful to limit 
the enquiry to points that are within the power of any 
ordinary observer. It is not well to discard altogether 
such evidence, as on many important points information 
can be derived, and in some of these the liability to 
error is no greater than with a professional observer. 

Various points in connection with malaria might be 
well taken as illustrations, both of the value of such infor- 
mation and the errors that are likely to occur as a result 
of too much confidence in such information, as well as 
of the general methods which have been adopted deter- 
mining etiological and other factors. 

These points comprise : (i) ^4s regards Individuals. 
Their susceptibility to the disease and the effects of the 
disease, including liability to relapses, length of period 
of intermission between relapses, and any evidence of 
the acquirement of immunity. 

(2) As regards the Population in General. Suscepti- 



43 2 STATISTICS OF MALARIA 

bility, and any factors, age, race, or habits, influencing it. 
Mortality per 1,000 of the population at various age 
periods ; and case mortality in treated and untreated 
cases; liability to any special, immediate or remote, 
complications ; effect on general health ; any evidence 
of acquisition of immunity. 

(3) As regards the Place. This should include enquiries 
as to any special house, village or district, as well as 
the country in general, where the disease is more or 
less prevalent than the average. Seasonal variations 
and their effects, particularly rainfall, temperature, and 
any cause affecting level of sub-soil water. Any facts 
known as to the prevalence of the known main factor- 
in the case of malaria, prevalence of AnopJieliiuv in the 
spread of the disease. Some numerical estimate, endemic 
index, of the liability to infection. 

Most of these points can be determined to some extent 
by careful enquiries, though the results must be con- 
firmed by observation, or where possible by the adoption, 
as a check, of other methods. 

The results obtained in this way, though not to be 
implicitly relied upon, will be a valuable guide to the 
direction of researches required in a district or country. 

Liability to Infection. Enquiries as to individuals 
necessitates a selection of cases, and information of a 
reliable nature can only be obtained on every point 
from few persons. In the case of new-comers the date 
of arrival in a country and the subsequent movements, 
with approximate dates, are usually to be trusted. The 
date of the first attack of malaria can generally be 
obtained. Sufficient information about the attack, such 
as the character and duration of the " fever " ; the 
effect of quinine, and absence of any other cause of 
pyrexia, such as septic infection or pneumonia, must be 
ascertained to render it probable that the attack was 
malarial. 

Any form of indisposition in the older residents is 
so frequently called malaria that less reliance is to be 
placed on these than on the history of the first attack 



RELAPSES 433 

In malaria it must always be remembered that relapses 
are so common that a second attack, even at an interval 
of several months, does not prove a second infection. 

The Liability to Relapses is more difficult to determine, 
but with a fair number of individuals it can be ascer- 
tained, and great individual variations will be found. 
In newcomers three weeks to a month is a common 
interval, whilst in others the period may be as long as 
four or six months. In this connection careful enquiries 
as to the habits as regards quinine are of great import- 
ance, as if quinine is taken constantly, even in small 
doses, the relapse is often postponed till the quinine is 
discontinued. 

Increase in the Interval between Relapses. Any obser- 
vations as to increase in the interval between the relapses, 
with increased length of residence or diminution in the 
severity of the attacks, may indicate that a degree of 
immunity has been acquired, and the length of residence 
required for this, though shorter in all in the more 
malarial districts, is, to a great extent, an individual 
peculiarity. 

As regards the population in general, it is essential 
that the actual numbers of the different races represented 
be known before any use can be made of totals, such 
as number of deaths, admission to hospital, &c. This 
warning may appear superfluous, but it is not. In pub- 
lished reports one of the commonest errors is to speak 
of a disease as being more or less prevalent in a district 
on the ground of the number of cases seen, not as it 
should be, on the proportion of the susceptible population 
attacked. 

It is in connection with blackwater fever and yellow 
fever that such errors are most common. 

Age Incidence. Personal observations should be made 
on unselected cases and the number of cases examined 
mentioned in the table, with the percentages. Ages 
cannot be ascertained with certainty, especially in coun- 
tries where the differences in season are not very marked. 
With children age has to be estimated from the size, 
28 



434 MORTALITY 

teeth* and development. In adults knowledge of local 
history and notable events, the dates of which can be 
fixed, are of considerable value. Age periods of five 
years are usually taken, but it is of the utmost import- 
ance in malarial investigation to subdivide the first 
quinquennial period and further subdivide the first year 
into quarters. The first quarter should be subdivided 
into months. Malaria is rare till the end of the first 
month. 

As an age period the first ten years should never be taken 
as a whole, as such different results are obtained in a 
village, or in a series of observations, if a large proportion 
are, say, under four, or only a small proportion. Conclu- 
sions drawn from the incidence of malaria in the first 
ten years of life, taken as a whole, are often misleading. 

Mortality is best estimated at the rate of so many 
deaths per 1,000 per year, as then the results can be 
compared. If dealing with short periods, as, for instance, 
one week, the death-rate would be the proportion of 
deaths per 1,000 of the population in that period, 
multiplied by 52. If a long period, say ten years, is 

* Ages at which teeth are cut in Europeans. The differences in 
native races have not yet been worked out. Table kindly supplied 
to me by Mr. K. W. Goadby. 

TEMPORARY DENTITION. 

Central incisors 5th to 8th month. 

Lateral incisors ... ... ... 7th to loth 

First molars 1 2th to 1 4th 

Canines i4th to 2oth 

Second molars ... ... ... 2Oth to 3oth ,, 

PERMANENT DENTITION. 

Upper jaw Lower jaw 

Central incisors 77 years ... 7 years. 

Lateral incisors ... ... 8 ... 8 

Canines ... ... ... 11 10 



Premolar I. ... ... ... 10 

Premolar II. ... ... ... 1 1 

Molar 1 6^ 

Molar II 12 

Molar III. 24 



10 
ii 

7 

12 

24 



MORTALITY 

taken, the death-rate would then be represented by the 
number of deaths per 1,000 divided by 10. 

The factors necessary are the number of persons of 
the required class alive at the commencement of the 
period, the number of deaths of this class who died 
from the disease which it is desired to investigate in 
the period, and the length of the period. 

Case Mortality is the percentage representing the pro- 
portion of cases terminating fatally. The number of 
cases of the disease and the number of deaths from the 
disease are the only two factors requisite. If it is desired 
to compare the " case mortality " in different years or 
other periods of time, cases occurring in those periods 
only must be included. In malaria untreated and treated 
cases must be considered separately, and the treatment 
mentioned as the case mortality is so much reduced 
by effective treatment. 

Remote or Indirect Mortality is the mortality due to 
remote complications, visceral changes and increased 
liability to other diseases, or to the tendency which 
malaria appears to have to aggravate some diseases. 
Our knowledge of this branch of the subject is most 
inaccurate and requires complete revision. 

The effect on general health varies greatly in different 
conditions, and under circumstances little understood. 
Splenic enlargement, anaemia and diminished rate of 
growth are the most definite. Susceptibility to tuber- 
culosis appears to be induced by chronic malaria in 
countries where tuberculosis is prevalent. The effect 
on the general health, apart from the actual attacks, 
whether mild or pernicious, varies according to race. 

Period of natural incubation and its variations can 
be determined from the histories of patients, and then 
must be limited either to first attacks or to other attacks 
in which a long interval has elapsed. The most common 
history given is of some immediate antecedent. Ex- 
posure to chill, constipation, change of residence, par- 
ticularly from a warmer to a cooler place, and even 



436 IMMUNITY 

cessation of travelling, are given as the causes of the 
attack. These causes are not to be taken as those of 
the infection, though they may determine or accelerate 
the manifestation of the disease. 

The time of actual onset of symptoms can usually 
be told with certainty, but the time of infection is dim- 
cult to determine. The frequency with which travelling 
in one form or other enters into the causation is usually 
to be ascribed to passing through a highly malarial 
district, or even to spending some hours in a house 
where infected mosquitoes are to be found. With a 
sufficient number of cases it is sometimes easy, as in the 
case of a steamer, or in persons travelling over known 
routes, to fix on the date of infection as the date on 
which a halt was made at a notoriously malarial place. 
Such cases show the wide limits of the period of natural 
incubation, often longer than those which have been 
determined experimentally by feeding infected mosquitoes 
on susceptible persons. 

The evidence of immunity is to be considered under 
two heads : (i) Age incidence of the disease in natives 
and cessation of attacks with advancing years. (2) In 
newcomers the residential period during which attacks 
occur, and any evidence, by the diminishing frequency or 
severity of attacks, that some immunity is acquired. 

With malaria it is important to consider whether 
there are periods in which from climatic conditions 
infections do not take place. In the case of individuals, 
if there are periods during which they are not resident 
in places where malarial infection is possible. Immunity 
is destroyed or diminished by such periods, so that if 
they are long immunity is not acquired at so early a 
period, or at all. There is evidence that immunity is 
not of long duration in malaria, but more exact observa- 
tions are required on this point. 

In any consideration of immunity the liability to 
infection endemic index must be taken into account, 
as with a low endemic index individuals only, not a 
class, will acquire immunity. 



(3) As regards Place. In considering any place it is 
important to bear in mind that malaria is a local disease, 
and that even in houses close together one will be more 
malarial than another. Still more so are different quarters 
of the same town or district, and the localities where the 
disease is most prevalent vary from year to year. These 
differences, and the causation of the variation in the 
differences, require local investigation in all cases. 

Seasonal variation may act in two ways, first by ren- 
dering the conditions more favourable for the multipli- 
cation of Anopheliiuv, and secondly by presenting condi- 
tions more favourable for the development of the malaria 
parasites in the mosquitoes. Rainfall, both the amount 
and distribution, i.e., whether in frequent light showers 
with short intervals, or heavy downpours with long 
intervals, is of great importance, but the effect may vary 
with the same monthly rainfall, as occasional heavy 
showers flush out and destroy mosquito larvae, whilst the 
same amount of rain falling slowly will merely increase 
the size and maintain the same breeding places. The 
level of the subsoil water may be more affected by distant 
rain than by the local rainfall, and thus distant rainfall 
may be a cause of the unhealthiness of a place. Rain on 
mountains or hills behind a station is an example of this. 
Where there are snow-covered mountains, as in Equa- 
torial Africa, the water supply is dependent on the melt- 
ing of this snow, and therefore a high temperature 
increases the water supply of a large district. A high 
temperature within certain limits causes more rapid 
breeding of mosquitoes, causes them to require food and 
therefore to attack men more frequently, and is favourable 
to the rapid development of the malaria parasites, and so 
in all these ways will favour the spread of malaria. 

The species of Anopheliucc present and of those most 
numerous in the district should be determined, and 
these species of mosquitoes should be tested as to the 
readiness with which they may become infected by the 
malaria parasite. Different species vary greatly in this 



ENDEMIC INDEX 

respect, and even with the same species infection seems 
to occur with varying difficulty under different circum- 
stances. As a rule mosquitoes reared from larvae are 
not as easily infected as those of the same species caught 
in the adult stage. The possible or known circumstances 
affecting the development of the parasites are the tem- 
perature, the age of the mosquito, whether impregnated 
or not, and the nature of the food previously taken by the 
mosquito, and probably other conditions, which all require 
local investigation. 

Endemic Index. A numerical estimate of the liability 
to malarial infection is an important factor to deter- 
mine. The number of malarial attacks, or of hospital 
admissions for malaria, from a known number of persons, 
is of little value, even if the diagnosis is confirmed in 
every case by blood examinations, as these admissions 
will include recurrences and relapses, which will vitiate 
the figures, e.g., a man infected once with malaria may 
have a dozen attacks of malaria as a result of this single 
infection in a year, or he may have only one. In the 
first instance he would appear in returns as 12, in the 
second as i, though in both instances for our purpose 
they should be represented as i. 

If first attacks only are included this difficulty does 
not occur, and first attacks have the further advantage 
of being usually severe, and in persons who have not 
yet acquired the habit of treating themselves and who 
therefore come under medical observation. 

For an estimate of the liability to infection, or endemic 
index, by this method, the factors to ascertain are the 
dates of first attacks of malaria occurring during the 
course of the observations, verified by blood examina- 
tions or in other ways, effect of quinine, &c., and the 
length of residence previous to the attack, and the 
number of newcomers during the period who have 
escaped infection. As a separate estimate a statement 
by as large a proportion as possible of the resident 
population as to the length of time they had each 



ENDEMIC INDEX 439 

resided in the country before their first attack of malaria. 
These figures usually lead to much the same result. 
Reliance has to be placed on histories only, and errors 
may occur, though each factor is one which most of the 
residents are capable of observing. 

By this method the length of residence in weeks or 
months that is ordinarily required for an attack of 
malaria is determined. The period of incubation we 
know varies, but is commonly from ten days to three 
weeks, and this period should be subtracted from the 
length of residence required for an attack of malaria to 
obtain the period of residence required for infection. 

Where bodies of men are working together and are 
under medical observation, as in regiments, gangs of 
workmen, &c., this method is, I believe, the best and 
simplest, and includes no sources of error that are not 
common to other methods. 

In such an estimate all persons who were born and 
have lived in malarial countries for prolonged periods 
should be excluded ; also those who have contracted 
malaria in other malarial countries. For these exclu- 
sions there are two reasons (i) to avoid including 
relapses, and (2) to avoid including persons who may be 
immune. 

A somewhat similar method is to determine the pro- 
portion of untreated natives who harbour the parasites 
of malaria. In this method the ages must be known, 
and unselected children, including those apparently in 
good health, must be examined. Children should form 
a large proportion of the cases. 

This method has been extensively used, and an arbitrary 
standard, ten years, has been selected ; the proportion of 
children under 10 years of age with malarial parasites is 
then taken as the index. 

A more satisfactory method is to determine the propor- 
tion at different ages. Thus in one district, whilst 86 
per cent, of the children under 2 years of age were in- 
fected with parasites of malaria, only 28 per cent, of those 



440 SPLEEN TEST 

from 5 to 10 harboured them. If, therefore, in such a 
place most of the examinations were made in young 
children, a much higher index would be obtained than 
if most of the children were over 5. 

In many of the determinations no further information 
than " children under 10 years of age" has been given, 
and in some of them the number of children examined 
is very small. 

It is not very easy in some places to get a sufficient 
number of children for examination, but with patience 
it can generally be done. As these cases are untreated, 
many of them, if not most, will have had the parasites 
for considerable periods, and therefore the figures only 
indicate antecedent, perhaps remote, infection. If young 
children were examined monthly till parasites were found, 
the liability to infection under native conditions would 
be determined more accurately. In making any series 
of blood examinations the time selected should be during 
a period of settled weather. If examinations are made 
during a change, particularly from hot to cold, the para- 
sites will be more easily found, as the effect of chill is to 
favour the development of the parasites. Examinations 
made at such times will therefore show a higher index 
than those made in settled weather. 

The Spleen Test, or the proportion of persons with 
enlarged spleens, is useful if age and race are taken into 
account. It is of more value amongst negroes than 
amongst other races, as the negro spleen does not con- 
tinue to enlarge after immunity has been acquired in the 
same way that the spleens of many individuals of other 
races do. The test can be used easily, as there is nothing 
in the examination to excite alarm or frighten the 
children, and can be made more quickly than any other 
examination. 

It indicates only antecedent, probably remote, infec- 
tion, and is less certain proof of antecedent infection 
than the presence of parasites. 

A large proportion of enlarged spleens between 2 and 



>LEEN Tl 

5 years ot age is an indication of a high endemic index. 
If the presence of malaria in a district is proved, the 
absence of enlarged spleens in negro adults, or a low 
proportion between 10 and 15, is equally a proof of a 
high endemic index, whilst if the proportion of enlarged 
spleens in adult negroes is appreciable or large in those 
between 10 and 15 the endemic index is low* 

The determinations obtained by the spleen test are 
less liable to be influenced by meteorological conditions 
than the test by blood examinations ; they are easier, and 
can be made in a larger number of cases, but otherwise 
are less accurate, as the conditions that lead to splenic 
enlargement after malarial infection vary and are not 
thoroughly understood, and splenic enlargement may 
be due to other causes. 

Another proposed method of estimation of the index 
is by determining the proportion of the Auophelince that 
are found to be infected with the parasites of malaria. 
For this method to be of value the mosquitoes must be 
selected from different houses and places in equal pro- 
portion, as it will be found that there are great variations 
in this proportion in adjoining houses and at different 
times. One good " crescent case" will infect almost 
every Anopheline of certain species that bites the patient, 
whilst only a small proportion of those that bite the 
more numerous poor crescent cases will be infected. 
Anophelince in European houses are rarely found to be 
infected, whilst in an overcrowded native house, where 
there is no protection of the inmates from mosquitoes, 
a large proportion of infected Anophelines may be found. 

The proportion of infected mosquitoes is not the real 
test so much as the number of infected mosquitoes, so 
that in these estimates the number of Anopheline that 
bite a man per hour is also required. 

A high endemic index, as determined by the other 

* With no other race but the Negro can such conclusions be 
drawn with certainty. ( Vide page 23.) 



44 2 ENDEMIC INDEX 

methods, will be found in places where Anophelince are 
very numerous, even when the proportion infected is 
very small. 

It must always be remembered that a place with a large 
number of Anophelince of species known to be efficient 
carriers of the parasite, even if free from malaria at any 
one time, has the potentialities of a high "endemic 
index" if the place be occupied by newcomers or other 
persons susceptible to malarial infection. This is the 
reason that railway and engineering works are so often 
attended with outbreaks of malaria, even when con- 
ducted in places that previously were not considered to 
be very malarious. Anophelince are present and perhaps 
numerous ; in any case many new breeding-places are 
formed during excavations, and the mosquitoes become 
numerous. Gangs of workmen are crowded together 
in temporary huts, and they are not protected from 
mosquito bites. The workmen will include susceptible 
newcomers, and frequently some persons harbouring 
parasites. A single good "crescent case," often a man 
with no symptoms of malaria, will infect a number of 
mosquitoes, and in the course of some ten days or so 
these mosquitoes will infect any susceptible persons who 
sleep in the hut. 

The earliest numerical estimate was arrived at by 
determining the proportion of persons at different ages 
whose organs contained malaria pigment. This method 
can only be adopted under circumstances where post 
mortem examinations can be obtained in both children 
and adults. The results indicate antecedent malaria 
infection. The method, though fairly good, is only of 
limited value, as the large number of post-mortem examina- 
tions required can only be obtained in few places. 

These, then, are the main methods for the determina- 
tion of the endemic index : 

(i) By determining the length of residence required 
to render malarial infection probable in susceptible new- 
comers. 



443 

(2) The ages at which the largest proportion of natives 
harbour the parasites of malaria. 

(3) Ages at which splenic enlargement is common. 

(4) Percentage of persons dying from all causes with 
malarial pigmentation of the organs. 

(5) Number of infected Anophelince. 

Other evidences, though too complicated by other 
factors to be used numerically, are a high infantile death- 
rate amongst the natives, particularly a high death- 
rate from convulsions in infants over six months ; a 
high European death-rate ; and, we are inclined to add, 
the occurrence of blackwater fever. 

Graphic representations in the form of " charts " are 
useful as indicating the main results of any enquiry, as 
they are easier to follow with the eye than columns of 
figures or rows of statistics. 

The essential of a good chart is that it should be 
capable of translation back into figures, i.e., a chart 
should be such that it can be read. 

The principle of charting on a plane surface in two 
dimensions is that the horizontal line represents one 
factor, usually time or periods of time, whilst the vertical 
represents the other factor. 

Each of the factors should be represented according 
to scale in order that it can be read. This point is 
often overlooked, even in the familiar temperature charts, 
in that whilst the height of the temperature is recorded 
correctly in the vertical columns, the distances measured 
horizontally between the points representing the different 
observations are equally spaced, so as to look neat, whilst 
the real intervals of time are irregular, e.g., temperatures 
taken at 2, 10, 12, 3 should not be recorded on a four- 
hour chart, as if the time intervals were equal, but should 
be so recorded that the distances measured on the hori- 
zontal line are unequal in the proper proportion. 

In that case the chart can be correctly translated back 
into figures, otherwise, if represented as equi-distant the 
translation would read 4, 8, 12, 4. 



444 



CHARTS 



The limit to the translation of the chart is the scale 
of the chart ; where the intervals allowed for time are 
small, translation can only be approximate. 

In blood charts it is usual to represent the heights as 
percentages of normal, as real figures would require such 
enormous charts if it were desired to represent graphi- 
cally on the same scale both red and white corpuscles. 
In such cases it is better to keep to the figures or to use 
different vertical scales for the more numerous and more 
scanty elements. It must be clearly indicated what each 
line on the chart represents. 

CHART I. 

NEGROES (NATIVE AFRICANS). HAUSA AND YOMBA CHILDREN, 

320; HAUSA ADULTS, 100. COMPILED FROM OFFICIAL 
REPORT, LAGOS, OF VV. H. G. H. BEST. 



12 5 10 15 20 25 3O 36 40 



Too many lines on one chart are difficult to follow, 
and the only cases in which it is advisable to have two 
or more lines is when it is desired to compare two or 
more results. 

The [different methods of determining the endemic 
index of malaria are conveniently rendered graphically 
and serve as illustrations of the method. Chart I. is 
compiled from an official report of W. H. G. H. Best, of 
the Lagos Medical Service, and formerly of the London 
School of Tropical Medicine, which is almost the only 
report published that gives sufficient details for the 
determination of the age incidence. 



CHARTS 



No cases are given under 3 months of age, and those 
under 6 months are very few. The chart shows clearly 
that under the conditions of a native life a large propor- 
tion of children are infected in less than six months, 
and practically all in less than a year, whilst the number 
of infected children after five years is so small that the 
majority must have acquired immunity. 

CHART II. 

NEGROES (NATIVE AFRICANS), CENTRAL AFRICA. 714 NATIVE 
CHILDREN UNDER 15, AND NUMEROUS ADULTS. 



Age in 
Years 


25 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 5O 


Nj QQ 








































> 70 




















S " gQ 




















Poo 




















^*s ^5 


^ 


















*/S 30 




V 
















(3^3 20 




V 




















\ 


V 




















S 















Chart II. shows the age incidence of enlarged spleens 
in Central Africa, and on chart III. are shown the same 
cases subdivided, into two widely different groups ; in 
the one district Europeans often pass their first year 
without getting malaria, whilst in the other few escape 
for more than a few weeks. The earliest age incidence 
of enlarged spleen and the earlier period at which it 
ceases to be common in the more malarial districts are 
well shown. 

The weakness of the spleen test is that a considerable 
proportion even of untreated cases of malaria do not 
show marked splenic enlargement, and it is probable 
that 68 per cent, of enlarged spleens indicates universal 
infection as much as 90 per cent, harbouring parasites 
would do. 



446 



CHARTS 



CHART III. 

NEGROES (NATIVE AFRICANS), IN A MOST MALARIAL DISTRICT 
IN CENTRAL AFRICA. RESIDENCE REQUIRED FOR PROBABLE 
INFECTION WITH MALARIA, UNDER Six WEEKS. 

NATIVE AFRICAN, IN LESS MALARIAL DISTRICT. RESIDENCE 
FOR ONE YEAR DOES NOT RENDER INFECTION CERTAIN. 



10 



30 



Iteo 



S,40 
ft 



,30 




Chart IV. indicates the proportion of persons at 
different ages with malarial pigment in the spleen in a 
moderately malarial country. Two years' exposure was 
required for probable infection. It shows malarial infec- 
tion later, and less complete immunity. 



CHART IV. 

NEGROES (NATIVE AFRICANS), COMPILED FROM POST-MORTEM 
EXAMINATIONS IN BRITISH GUIANA. 



60 90 

1 80 

n </> 



10 



25 JO 15 20 25 30 35 40 



50 



60 Over 6O 



The line commences at one month, no pigmentation being found earlier. 
The next point is "under six months." 




CHARTS 



447 



The liability to malarial infection as determined by the 
first method, the length of residence required for probable 
infection, would be simply charted for different districts 
by representing for each place in the vertical lines the 
number of months requisite for the infection of three- 
fourths of susceptible newcomers, or the percentage of 
persons who would be infected in a period of six months 
or a year, as is considered to be most convenient. 

CHART V. 

COMPILED FROM REPORTS BY TRAVERS AND WATSON. Journal of Tropical 
Medicine, JULY 3, 1906. 

Indicates number of cases admitted with malaria from Klang. 

Ditto from surrounding districts, where no measures had been taken. 




In 1901, 176 Government officials had a total of sick leave amounting to 
1,026 days, whilst in 1904, 281 had only 71 days' sick leave. 

In some charts the distances on the horizontal line 
have no meaning, and it is simply for convenience that 
the horizontal spacings are made ; a series of vertical 
columns packed together or widely and irregularly 
separated would have the same meaning but cause 
confusion. 

The convenience of such charts is that various points 
can be indicated on the same chart and compared. 



448 



CHARTS 



The success that has attended prophylactic measures 
in many places has been marked. Some of the observa- 
tions are imperfect, and in many of them several methods 
have been employed and have been associated with 
improved treatment of the disease, and therefore the 
actual results do not depend entirely on a reduction of 
the endemic index. 

Two illustrations of the results obtained are selected for 
charting and criticism. 

One is that recorded by Travers and Watson for the 
town of Klang in the Malay Peninsula. The figures 

CHART VI. 

Deaths from malaria in the drained area. 

... Deaths certified as from other diseases. 




During the same period in the surrounding undrained districts the death 
rate certified as from fever increased from 173 in 1900, to 35 1 in I 95> a d 
from other diseases from 133, to 271 in 1905. 

reported are the admissions to hospital for malaria 
verified by blood examination, and the deaths attributed 
to malaria, in both, for a series of years. 

The population is known to have increased, but as the 
amount of increase is not known it is taken as stationary, 
and to that extent the results appear rather less striking 
than they really are. 



KLANG EXPERIMENTS 449 

The measures adopted were to intercept by drains, 
running across the base of a hill behind the town, the 
water that would otherwise have joined the town subsoil 
water, and by the provision of numerous deep drains to 
lower the level of the subsoil water in the town. Later 
hollow's were filled in. The effect has been to diminish 
the number of certain species of Anophclincc ; species such 
as Myzomyia Rossi are still very abundant, but these are 
not efficient carriers of malaria. 

These works were commenced in 1901 and continued 
since, the greater part being supplied early in 1902, and 
were carried out by the Government in accordance with 
recommendations made by a Committee composed of 
three medical men and three engineers. 

The main results are indicated in the charts (V. and 
VI.). As a control the surrounding district where no 
anti-malarial measures were adopted is used. It will be 
seen that whilst in the towns both the number of cases of 
malaria and of the deaths was greatly reduced though the 
population had increased, in the surrounding districts 
there was an increase in both these items. The increase 
in fact was due to an increase in the population. 

One striking feature is that the deaths from other 
causes diminished as well as those from malaria, indicating 
the indirect influence of malaria on the prevalence and 
severity of other diseases. This is shown in Chart VI. 

The numbers are considerable as the population is 
over 4,000, and the cases of malaria were 334 in 1901, 
and average twenty-nine from 1903 to 1904 with a popu- 
lation known to be greater. Applying Poisson's formula, 
we find that dividing the population 4,000 into two 
groups, one group, 334, consisting of those who con- 
tracted malaria, and another group, 3,666, consisting of 
those who did not contract malaria, the limits of error 
are represented by 

+ 2 \/ 2 x 334 x 3,666 - { 

4,000 x 4,000 x 400 r 

= ' OI2 37 I 5 per unit; 
Or, + 49*486 for a population of 4,000. 
29 



45 CENTRAL AFRICAN EXPERIMENTS 

So that the number of cases of malaria per annum in 
this population, if the conditions had remained con- 
stant, might have varied between 334 + 49 = 383, and 
334 49 = 285. As will be seen, the reduction to 29 
in 1903 is manifestly outside the limits of mathematical 
error, and indicates a marked improvement in the condi- 
tions by which malaria was spread in this district. 

Any error therefore, if it existed, is one due to errors 
of observations, and the " control" is a sufficient check 
on this. 

Chart VII. indicates the incidence of disease in a 
series of Mission stations in central Africa for a period 
of years. From 1900 onward various anti-malarial 
measures have been taken. These measures varied in 
different stations and were carefully planned by the 
medical officer, Dr. Howard, in accordance with the 
local conditions. As charted the effects are most striking, 
as the proportion invalided or who died during the five 
years when these measures were practised was less than 
quarter of that in the preceding five years. The actual 
numbers are very small, as in the second period there 
were only an average of 24*4 workers and a total of 122 
in the five years. Of these 7 died and 8 were invalided 
= a loss of 15 ; in 1901 to 1905 there were 182, of these 
2 died and 4 were invalided = a loss of 6. 

If we apply Poisson's formula to these figures we find 
that the ratio in the first period involved a probable 
error of "059552 per unit; in a population of 182 in a 
similar period the number of deaths might have been 
21, or a minus quantity. The reduction to two there- 
fore falls within the limits of mathematical error. 

This result, therefore, though striking, must be taken 
rather as an illustration than as a proof of the value of 
such methods. 

Many statistics require correction before charting. Of 
these corrections some are obvious and easily made. 
The number of cases is useless unless the total number 
of the population that are susceptible to the disease is 



BLACKWATER FEVER STATISTICS 



451 



also known. In dealing with inhabitants of different 
races any difference in the susceptibility has to be noted 
and allowed for. 

Blackwater fever is a good illustration in point, and 
so many erroneous statements are made in connection 
with it that it well serves as an illustration. It occurs 

CHART VII. 
COMPILED FROM REPORT BY HOWARD, PUBLISHED LONDON SCHOOL OF 

TROPICAL MEDICINE, FEBRUARY, 1907. 
Deaths per 1,000. Number invalided per 1,000. 



CALCULATED 
PER 1000 
120 
110 
100 
90 
80 
70 
6O 
50 
40 
30 
20 

10 



1887 88 


89 


90 


91 


92 


93 


94 


95 


96 


97 


98 


99 


1900 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 












































r 












I 


























1 












| 


























1 












1 


























i 












[ 


























i 
i 












1 


























i 
i 












1-. 












1 















































H 


_j 


































































































1 





i 


































i 



































In this chart the figures are so small that fluctuations from year to year 
are considerable, and the result is better shown by averaging for periods of 
five years. The value of the evidence is considerable, but the small figures 
available reduce this value to a great extent. 



in Tropical Africa, in India, and in the West Indies, 
amongst other places. All races are probably susceptible, 
though this is doubted by some as regards some negro 
races : in any case the susceptibility varies, and the negro 
susceptibility is so slight that not one in many thousands 
will get the disease under conditions where some 8 per 
cent, of the Europeans are attacked. The Indian is 



45 2 BLACKWATER FEVER STATISTICS 

certainly susceptible, but only about one-fourth as 
susceptible as the European. These variations in racial 
susceptibility require much further study. 

We must know, therefore, both the number of Euro- 
peans and the number of cases that occur amongst them 
in each district before we can compare the prevalence 
of the disease in each district. Similarly the number 
of cases amongst Indians and the number of Indians 
must be known, and the proportion in the two races 
must be kept distinct. 

If this is done it will be found as a general rule that 
in the most malarial district in Africa the prevalence 
of blackwater fever is the greatest, though the actual 
number of cases seen may be no more than in a more 
thickly populated but less malarial district. It will also 
be found that it is only in Africa that a large proportion 
of susceptible persons are attacked. In other countries, 
where perhaps as many cases may be seen, the number 
of susceptible persons is much larger. 

Another correction, an important one, has to be made. 
Unfortunately the amount of the correction is dependent 
on a variable factor the period of incubation of the 
disease. More cases of blackwater fever probably occur 
in England than in any one small district in Africa, 
but these cases are all in people who have returned from 
Africa and acquired the infection there. In these cases 
there is no doubt that the infection should be attributed 
to the part of Africa from which they came. Here the 
matter is easy, but in Africa itself it is so often found that 
persons develop the disease who have been travelling, 
that it is a matter of great difficulty to attribute the 
disease to the correct place of origin. In many cases 
the place where the disease develops is certainly not the 
place where it was acquired. The correction to be applied 
here is essential, but can only be an approximate and 
arbitrary one in the present state of our knowledge, as 
the period of "incubation" is unknown, and probably 
variable. It is better to take the place of residence a 



SECRETION RATES 453 

fortnight before the attack as the more probable place 
to be implicated in a large proportion of the cases. 

Charting is often useful to represent the secretion or 
excretion rates either of definite substances, such as 
urea, or the volume of a mixed fluid, such as urine. 
Here times are represented by the distance measured 
horizontally, and amounts, weights, or volumes by the 
height measured vertically. 

The only difficulty is that however it may be secreted 
urine as well as other fluids are only passed at intervals, 
and it is the rate at which urine is being formed, not 
that at which it is being passed, that is of importance. 
The only available method is to divide the number oi 
ounces of urine passed, or, if necessary, drawn off by 
catheter, by the intervals measured in hours between 
the successive micturitions ; the result will give the 
average rate per hour, assuming that the bladder is equally 
empty after each micturition. 

Such charts are of a special value in diseases like 
blackwater fever, in which there is a tendency to sup- 
pression of urine, and may indicate the periods of greatest 
danger. 

The geographical and topographical distribution of 
disease, of parasites and of certain insects is of consider- 
able importance. Maps should be drawn to the required 
scale and the places where an examination shows that 
the condition to be charted is present marked with a 
plus, +, and where absent negative, . Places where 
no observations have been made should be clearly 
indicated, for if, as is sometimes done, they are repre- 
sented as negative, most misleading conclusions as to the 
distribution of the disease will be drawn. 

It is usual to represent the incidence of a condition by 
shading, and the depth of the shading indicates also the 
prevalence of the condition. 

In determining the incidence of a disease in a town or 
village a plan must be drawn up and the houses or groups 
of houses infected indicated as above. 



454 GRAPHIC REPRESENTATION 

Extraneous conditions, such as wells, streams or other 
sources of water, must be shown, and when dealing with 
a question such as malaria, known to be carried in a 
certain way, other conditions favouring the prevalence 
of such carriers as Anophdincc, must also be indicated. 

These maps and charts enable the conditions to be 
quickly understood, and are therefore of considerable 
value if accurate and carefully drawn up. 

With a little ingenuity almost anything can be repre- 
sented in a graphic manner, or charted. The value of 
a chart is the ease with which relations are shown and 
from which conclusions can be deduced. They show no 
more and prove no more than the figures or facts they 
represent, but by many are more easily followed. If, 
therefore, a chart does not represent matters more clearly 
than the figures the chart is useless. 



455 



APPENDIX. 

TABLE I. AVERAGE WEIGHTS OF ORGANS IN OUNCES. 

Brain Heart Lungs Spleen Liver Kidney 

Europeans (Quain) ... 49-5 ... 11 ... 45 ... 6 ... 53 ... n 

Negroes (British Guiana) 42*04 ... lO'S ... 237 ... 6'9 ... 477 ... 9'9 

Indians 41-9 ... 87 ... 27-2 ... 18*4 ... 48*4 ... 8-9 

Chinese 47-3 ... 9 ... 26*1 ... 14-8 ... 43*4 ... 87 

TABLE II. VARIATION IN THE WEIGHTS OF LUNGS WITH THE 
TIME AFTER DEATH. 



Examination made 
after death 


No. of cases in 
Average which the lungs 21 ozs. to 
weights weighed 30 ozs. 


31 ozs. to 41 ozs. 
40 ozs. and over 






20 ozs. or less 








Within 3 hours 


. 18 


71 


21 


I 


... 


4 


23 


9 


2 5 . 


4 


i 


6 


. 27 


31 


.. 32 . 


.. 26 


3 


>, 12 


.. 29-1 


4 


-. 37 


37 


6 


18 


.. 34-8 ... 


3 


.. 47 - 


52 


-. 35 


Over 18 


44-1 ... 





3 


9 


... 33 



TABLE III. AVERAGE WEIGHTS OF BRAIN IN NEGROES AND 
INDIANS AT DIFFERENT AGES. 

Ages : 16 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 51 and over 

Negroes ... 44-3 ... 46 ... 45-4 ... 43 41'5 
Indians ... 40 ... 41-2 ... 41-3 ... 40*8 ... 40-5 

TABLE IV. PROPORTION OF THE SPLEENS IN INDIANS AND NEGROES 
W'EIGHING 15 ozs. AND OVER. 

Ages Indians Negroes 

201025 ... 30 per cent. ... 32 per cent. 

261045 ... 52 ... 16 

Over 45 ... 39 ... 15 

TABLE V. Variations in the total number of leucocytes and in the relative 
proportion of the different kinds of leucocytes occur in healthy persons to 
a moderate extent. The number of leucocytes in healthy adults is rarely 
under 6,000 per cmm. or over 12,000. In new-born children the number 
is much greater up to 20,000, and in pregnancy is increased up to 15,000. 
During active digestion there is an increase in the number of leucocytes. 

Variations in the relative proportion of the different forms of leucocytes 
readily occur in healthy children ; but in adults, with the exception of the 
lymphocytes, such variations are comparatively small. 



456 



TABLES CLASSIFICATION OF DIPTERA 



The following table gives examples of the relative proportions of the dif- 
ferent leucocytes in certain diseases, as well as the number of leucocytes per 
c.mm. usually met with in such diseases. 





No. per c.mm. 


Poly- 
morpho- 
nuclear 
Per cent. 


Lympho- 
cytes 
Per cent. 


Large 
mono- 
' nuclear 
Per cent. 


Eosino- 
philes 
Per cent. 


Pneumonia ... 


Great increase up to 


85 to 95 


15 


5 


I 




60,000 










Sepsis 


Increase up to 30,000 


75 to 90 


15 to 25 


5 to 10 


i to 8 




or 40,000 










Liver abscess... 


Increase varies, often 


75 to 85 


15 to 25 


5 to 10 


2 to 4 




slight, 12,000 to 












20,000 










Typhoid 


Slight increase at most 


50 to 65 


25 to 40 


5 to 15 


i to 3 


Malta fever ... 


> 


50 to 6s 


25 to 40 


5 to 15 


i to 3 


Relapsing fever 


Great increase up to 


75 to 90 


10 tO 20 


5 to 10 


I tO 2 




50,000 










Malaria 


No increase ; decrease 


45 to 65 


15 to 25 


15 to 30 


I 




during apyrexia 










Trypanosomia- 


No increase 


50 to 65 


20 to 30 


15 tO 20 


2 to 4 


sis 












Kala azar 


Marked decrease 


50 to 60 


25 to 35 


15 tO 20 


2 to 4 




1,000 to 3,000 










Anchylostomia- 


Usually increased, es- 


66 to 70 


10 to 20 


5 to 10 


10 to 50 


sis 


pecially in early cases 











It must be remembered that multiple infections are common. In relapsing 
fever lung complications are so common that possibly the leucocytosis is due 
to this. The tendency to leucocytosis and an increase in the polymorphonuclear 
leucocytes due to any disease will mask the mononuclear increase due to 
malaria. 



TABLE VI. This schedule of the classification of the Diptera differs in some 
details from the more usual, which is that adopted in the text. It has 
the advantage of being clearer. 

Sub-order I. ORTHORRHAPHA The pupa escapes from the larval 
skin either through an anterior T-shaped opening, or (rarely) 
through a posterior transverse slit : adults without a frontal 
lunule : 

I. NEMATOCERA. Flies with four- or five-jointed palpi and many- 
jointed antennae, the segments of which, except the basal two, 
are similar and are often fringed with long hairs : 

i. Nematocera vera. Antennas long and frequently with whorls 
of hairs : legs long and slender : abdomen usually long and 
slender. Examples, Craneflies, Midges, Gnats, Mosquitoes. 
Chironomidie. 



CLASSIFICATION OF DIPTERA 457 

ii. Neniatocera anoniala. Antennas of many small segments, but 
short and without whorls of hairs : abdomen usually stoutish : 
legs shorter and stouter than in Neniatocera vera. Examples, 
March-flies, Buffalo-gnats. Simulidas. 

2. BRACHYCERA. Flies with one- or two-jointed palpi, and usually 

short three-jointed (sometimes four- or five-jointed) antennae : 

iii. Brachycera anomala. Third segment of antennae ringed as 

if composed of several small segments fused together : body 

without strong bristles. Examples, Horse-flies, Soldier-flies. 

Tabanidae. 

iv. Brachycera vera. Third segment of antennae not ringed, 
but usually bearing a bristle or style (antennas sometimes 
four- or five-jointed) : usually with strong bristles. Examples, 
Snipe-flies, Robber-flies, Dance-flies. 

Sub-order II. CYCLORRHAPHA. The pupa escapes from the larval 
skin through an anterior circular opening : adults with a frontal 
lunule : antennae short, usually three-jointed, the third segment 
with a bristle or style : 

1. ASCHIZA. Flies without a frontal suture. Examples, Syrphus 

flies, Big-eyed flies. 

2. SCHIZOPHORA. Flies with a frontal suture. Examples, Bot 

flies, Muscids, Glossina, Stomoxys. 

Sub-order III. PUPIPARA. Larva nourished within the parent and 
not born till it is ready to change into a pupa. Examples, 
Tick-flies, Hippoboscidas, Bat-ticks, Bee-louse. 

VII. INSTRUMENTS AND REAGENTS. 

Microscope, with two eye-pieces, 2 and 4 ; three objectives, f in., 
in., and T ^ in. ; oil immersion lens ; substage condenser, and iris 
diaphragm and mechanical stage, micrometer eye-piece with scales 
or with squares, micromillimetre scale, camera lucida. 

Watchmaker's glass. 

Portable microscope. 

Direct vision spectroscope. 

Slides, No. 2 quality. 

Cover-glasses, No. i quality, to be packed in oil. 

Needles in handles. Cork felt. Entomological pins, No. 20. 
Forceps. Cornet's forceps. Mounted platinum wires. 

Test tubes, thick and best quality. Durham's tubes. Watch 
glasses. Petri dishes. Photographic trays, half- and full-plate. 
Erlenmeyer's flasks. Funnels. Glass tubing. Glass rod. Beakers. 
Burette, 50 cc. Evaporating dishes and copper dish for boiling 
slides. Spirit Bunsen. Primus kerosene lamp. 



45 8 INSTRUMENTS AND REAGENTS 

Glass measures, 500 cc., 100 cc. and 10 cc. 

Scales. Gramme weights. 

Paraffin oven. Paraffin moulding dish and blocks. 

Microtome. 

Steam steriliser. Hot-air steriliser and incubator. Iron enamelled 
jugs. 

Mounting and Imbedding Reagents. Alcohol, cotton wool, methy- 
lated spirits, oil of cloves, xylol, Canada balsam, glycerine, Farrant's 
solution, glycerine jelly, ether, chloroform, celloidin, paraffin wax, 
Hollis' glue, or shellac. 

Stains. Haematoxylin crystals, hasmatein, methylene-blue (Hochst's 
pure medicinal), thionin, gentian violet, fuchsin, carmine, picrocar- 
mine, toluidine blue, night blue, bismarck brown, methyl violet, 
cosine, both soluble in alcohol and soluble in water. Gram's stain 
made up. Leishman's stain. Burroughs' and Wellcome's tabloids. 
Griibler's stains are the best. 

Other Reagents. Acids : Hydrochloric, nitric, sulphuric, picric, 
osmic, tannic, carbolic (pure), gallic, acetone. Agar-agar, alum, 
ammonia, alcohol, methyl alcohol (pure for analysis), borax, creasote, 
iodine, filter paper, filter paper (Chardin), formalin, gelatine, glucose, 
lactose, lithium carbonate, lysol, mercuric chloride, naphthaline, 
peptone, platinum chloride, potassium ferrocyanide, potassium iodide, 
potassium bichromate, phenolphthalein, sodium carbonate, sodium 
citrate, sodium hydrate, sodium sulphate, sodium taurocholate. 



Plate 1 . 





L. 2 . 













6 . 



10. 



17 



- 












12 



15. 




f x 

V" 

I -~ * 






18 



19 . 



-* * 





16. 



20 




rzi, del 






PLATE I. 

STAINED WITH H^EMATOXYLIN OR EOSINE AND H/EMATOXYLIN*. 
Figs. 

i, 2. Normal variations in red blood corpuscles. 

3, 4. Nucleated red blood corpuscles. 

5. Blood plates. 

6, 7. Abnormal variation in size and colour. 

8. Abnormal shapes, poikilocytes. 

9. Basophilic granules. 

10. Polychromatic red corpuscle. 

11. Lymphocyte. 

12. Large mononuclear leucocyte. 

13. Polymorphonuclear leucocyte. 

14. Eosinophile leucocyte. 
15, 16, 17. Myelocytes. 

1 8. Quartan rosette. 

19. Young tertian parasites. 

20. Half-grown tertian parasite. 

21. Rosette benign tertian. 

22. Malignant tertian (sub-tertian), ring form. Double 

infection of corpuscles. 

23. Crescent. Gamete malignant tertian (sub-tertian). 

24. Young halteridium. 

25. Sporulating halteridium. 

26. Trypanosome of fish. 

27. Trypanosoma Brucei (tsetse fly disease, nagana). 



PLATE II. 

MALIGNANT TERTIAN PARASITES (SUB-TERTIAN) STAINHD 

WITH CARBOL THIONIN. 
Figs. 

1. Young form, rings. 

2. Half-grown parasite. 

3. Full-grown parasite. 

4. Sporulating parasite. 

3a, 43. Are full and sporulating parasites, as seen in sec- 
tions of organs shrunk by the spirit and 
other processes. 

5, 6, 7, 8. Development of the gametes of malignant tertian. 
9, 10. Benign tertian parasites, half-grown and sporu- 
lating. 

n, 12. Quartan parasites, half-grown and sporulating. 
13 to 1 6. Sporozoa of cattle and horses. 

lunbvyos of Filaria Stained with Hannatoxyliii. 

17. F. nocturna. 

1 8. F. perstans. 

19. F. Dcmav quail. 






Plate H 



* 



3a 






5. 



6 



: - : \ 



' '-'- 



10 



12 






15 



16. 






17. 




18 








19. 



A.Tcrzi, del 



Bale & Darnels son L td lith. 



Plate HI 





15 



19 

A.Terzi del. 



ir> 



9 



20 . 




18 



x. 



21 . 

Bale &-Dar.iel33.m L' d ktk 



PLATE III. 

STAINED WITH LEISHMAN'S STAIN. 
Figs. 

1. Normal red corpuscle. 

2. Blood plates. 

3. Lymphocyte. 

4. Large mononuclear leucocyte. 

5. Polymorphonuclear leucocyte. 

6. Eosinophile leucocyte. 

7. Mast cell. 

8. Transitional form. 

9. Abnormal mononuclear cell found in certain 

diseases, including trypanosomiasis. 

10 to 13. Myelocytes showing various types of granules. 
14, 15. Halteridium. 

16. Small drepanidium in red corpuscle. 

17. Same drepanidium in plasma. 

18, 19, 20. Large drepanidium in various stages. 

21. Degeneration of red corpuscle caused by drepa- 
nidium (Schiiffner's dots). 



PLATE IV. 

STAINED WITH LEISHMAN'S STAIN. 
Figs. 
i to 5. Stages of benign tertian parasite. 

6. Gamete benign tertian. 

7, 8, 9. Characteristic degeneration of red corpuscles con- 
taining benign tertian parasites (Schiiffner's 
dots). 
10 to 15. Stages of quartan parasite. 

1 6, 17. Stages of malignant tertian (sub-tertian) which 
are seen in peripheral blood. 

18. Male gamete, malignant tertian (sub-tertian). 

19. Female gamete, malignant tertian (sub-tertian). 

20. Double infection with malignant tertian (sub- 

tertian) parasites of a red corpuscle ; baso- 
philic granules in red corpuscle. 

21. Trypanosoma Lewisi (rat). 

22. Trypanosoma hominis (Congo). 

23. Spirillum of relapsing fever (stained with carbol 

fuchsin). 
24, 25. Amoeba coli. 



-. 

2. 



Plate JV. 



& <&.* .' 

"< " 



\ 

< 



- . 

C > 

IB 



10. 



11 




16 



2J 



J2 



17. 



24-. 



13 . 



18 




22 . 




14. 

# 

19 . 



20 



^ 



23. 



t 



25 



zi del 






INDEX. 

ABNORMALITIES, racial, 22-23 
Abscesses : 

Blood changes caused by, 57 
Hepatic : 

Leucocytosis in, 422, 456 
Organisms in pus of, 345, 354, 356 
Pus discharged in faeces in, 323 
Acanthocephala, classification of, 350 

Acarina (mites and ticks), characters and disease-carrying genera, 286-287 ; 
examination of, 290-292 ; dissection of, 292 ; internal anatomy, 292- 
293 ; as disease carriers, 293 ; life-history, 293 ; classification of, 294- 
296. 

Acartomyia,) 221 

Acetone, use of, in paraffin imbedding, 32 
Acid formation by bacteria, 392 
sEdcs, 198, 202, 224 
sEdeomyia, 223, 225 

sEdeomyince> classification of, 211-212; eggs of, 252 ; larvae of, 258, 261, 262 
sEdeomorphus , 224 

sEdina, differential characters of, 210-211 ; genera of, 224-225; man 
attacked by, 225 ; habitat of, 225-226 ; eggs of, 226 ; larvae of, 226 ; 
breeding places of, 226 
Africa : 

Blackwater fever in, 452 
Cellia pharoeensis in, 218 
Central : 

Anti-malarial measures in, success of, 450-451 
Filariasis in, 224 

Malarial infection in, charts illustrating, 444-446 
Myzomyia funesta in, 217 
Pyretophorus costalis in, 217 
Ticks in, 296 
East : 

Madura foot in, 399 
Ticks in, 296 
FilaricE occurring in, 128 
Hoemoglobinuria in, 358-359 
Jigger-flea in, 281 
Schistosoma found throughout, 357 
Sleeping sickness in, 108-109 



460 INDEX 

Africa continued. 

South : 

Epidemic jaundice of dogs in, 100 
Mai de Caderas in, 108 

Texas fever in cattle in, 100 

Tick fever of, in 

Trypanosoma dimorphiim in horses in, 108 

West, AnophelincE of, 217 
Agar, nutrient, 371 
Agglutinins, 140, 144, 394 
Agglutination test, 396-397 
AgrionidcE (dragon-flies), larvoe, 150, 255 
Air, estimation of bacteria in, 424 
Alcohol : 

Fixation by, 65, 70 ; by absolute alcohol, 51, 65 ; by alcohol and ether, 70 

Formol, as reagent in tropical work, 27-28 

Hardening reagent in tropical work, as, 26-27 
Aldrichia, 214 

Alimentary canal, organisms in, 356 
Algeria : 

Anopheles maculifiennis found in, 216 

Auchmeromyia found in, 189 
Amblyonima, 296 
Amblyomma hebrcarum, 294 
America : 

Screw-worm fly in, 186 

South : 

Jigger-flea in, 281 

Mai de Caderas in, 1 08 

Mosquitoes of, 218 

Texas fever in cattle in, 100 

Tropical: 

Jigger-flea in, 281 
Malaria carrier in, 218 
Amoeba, 352-354 

Ammonia, albuminoid, detection of, in water, 409, 413-414 
Ammonia, free, in water, Wanklyn's process for detection of, 408-409 
Aniphistomuni) 342-344 
Amyloid degeneration, demonstration of, 309 
Anaemia : 

Ankylostomiasis, of, see that title 

Counts of red blood corpuscles in, 421 

Pernicious, blood changes in, 59-60, and note, 421 

Pigment deposit in cases of, 303, 304 

Post-malarial, 435 
Anguillula intestinalis, 349 
Animals, parasites in blood of, 100-105 
Ankylostomes, 24, 348. 



INDEX 461 

Ankylostomiasis : 

Anaemia from blood changes in, 57-58, 421 ; fatty degeneration of, 308 

Blood in fseces of, 320 

Leucocytic variation in, 456 

Yellow pigment in, 305 
Ankylostomum ditodenale, occurrence of, 316, 346; characters, 346, 348; 

male and female, 347 ; eggs of, in feces, 328-329, 331 
Aneurisms, verminous, in horses, &c., 117 

Anopheles, differentiation of, 202, 214, 215 ; wing scales of, 204; anomalous 
character of genus of, 213; malaria parasites carried by, 215 ; sali- 
vary glands of, 241 ; eggs of, 254 ; pupae of, 269 
" Anopheles pool," 267 
Anopheles bifttrcaius, 216 

Anopheles maculipennis, 163, 215-216 ; Nuttall's articles on, died, 269 
Anophelina : 

Breeding places of, 265, 267 

Characters of, 207-210 

Classification of, 211 

Disease carriers, as, 75, 225-226, 244-245, 437-438, 441-442 

Eggs of, 253 

Feeding time of, 153 

Genera of, 212-215 

Head and scutellum of, 198 

Identification of species, 227 

Larvae of, 255, 259, 261, 263, 264 ; carriage of, 269 

Measures to diminish numbers of, 449 

Spermathecre, number of, in, 242 
Annett and Dutton, cited, 239, 249 
Anthomyia, larvae of, in man's intestines, 154 
Anthomyidce, characters and genera of, 189-191 
Anthrax, propagation of, 154, 167, 171 
Ants destructive to mosquitoes, 272 
Apes, anthropoid, micro-organism pathogenic to, 403 

Aphaniptera (fleas), order of, 162 ; characters, 193 ; intermediate hosts of 
parasites, 273; diagnosed from other Diptera, 155, 273; capture 
and examination of, 273-274 ; cleaning and mounting of specimens, 
274 ; anatomy of, 275-277 ; metamorphosis of, 276-277 ; Pulicid&, 
I53> 277-280; Sarcopsyllidce, 278, 280-281 ; classification, 277-281 ; 
parasitic on rats, 279-280 

Aphides, destruction of, by larva? of hover-flies, 175 
Aponomma, 296 

Appendicitis, leucocytosis in, 422 
Aptera, 150 

Arabia, Schistosoma found in, 357 
Arachnoidea, 148, 149, 286 et. seq. 
Araneidce, 286 
Argas, 294 
Argas miniatus, 293 



42 INDEX 

Argasimc, characters of, 288-290 ; number of ova, 293 ; differential characters 

and genera, 294 
Arribalzagia, 214 
Arsenic in water, detection of, 408 
Arthropoda, 148, 149 

Ascaris lumbricoides (round-worms) 344-345 ; eggs of, in faeces, 328, 331 
Aschiza, 457 
Asia : 

Cellia kochii found in, 218 

Stegomyia scutellaris found in, 223 

Asilida (robber-flies), characters and structure of, 156, 161, 172-173 
Assam : 

Cimex rotundatus in, 285 

Hamogregarines in dogs in, 102 
Aty lotus, 169 
Auchmeromyia, 187-189 
Autumno-oestival fever, crescent bodies in, 243 

BACILLI : 

Definition of, 377 

Living, in fluid, estimation of numbers of, 424 
Bacillus anthracis, 402 
B. colt communis, 393, 394, 403 
B. diphtheria, 403 
B. dysenterica, 403 
B. gartner, 403 
B. lepra, 402 
B. paratyphoid, 403 
B. pestis, 273, 403 
B. phlei, 402 
B. pyocyaneus, 403 

B. septicamia and B. hamorrhagica, 403 
B. smegnia, 402 
B. tetanus, 402 
B. tuberculosis, 402 
B. typhosus, 393, 394, 403 
Bacteria (see also Vegetable micro-organisms) : 

Aerobic, anaerobic and facultative, 390 

Cultivation of, at "room" temperature, 20 

Differential characters of, 377. 

Tissues, in, 311 

Urine, in, 361 
Balfour, cited, 103, 104, 266 
Bancroft, cited, 249 
Bats, parasites of, 100, 193 
Bees, parasites of, 193 
Benign tertian parasites : 

Asexual cycle, 87 ; length of, 79 

Corpuscle containing, effect on, 87 



INDEX 463 

Benign tertian parasites continued. 

Diagnosed from benign quartan and malignant tertian, 94 

Gametocyte form, 88 ; changes in, 91 

Sporulation of, number of spores at each, 79; site of, 80 

Zoological position of, 105 
Benign quartan parasites : 

Asexual cycle, 86 ; length of, 79 

Corpuscle containing, effect on, 86 

Diagnosed from benign tertian and malignant tertian, 94 

Gametocyte form, 88 ; changes in, 91 

Pigment deposits in, 86 

Sporulation, site of, 80 

Zoological position of, 105 
Bentley, died, 102 
Beri-beri, urine of, 361, 362 
Berkeley, W. N., cited, 254 
Best, W. II. G. H., official report of, cited, 444 
Bile in urine, 359-360 
Bile acids in faeces, 321 
Bile pigments in faeces, 321 
Bilharziosis : 

Blood changes in, 58 

Geographical distribution of, 357-358 
Binotia, 225 
Birds : 

Bed-bugs, attacked by, 285 

Filarice in, 250 

Hippoboscidce parasitic on, 191 

Lice of, 150 

Parasites in blood of, 98-100 

Trypanosomes found in, 106-107 
Bironella, 214 
Blackwater fever : 

Distribution of, and racial susceptibility to, 451-452 

Excretion charts in, 453 

Haemoglobinuria characteristic of, 358 

Methaemoglobin in, 136 

Pigments in, 305 

Prevalence of, 433 

Secretion of urine in, 359 

Tonicity of blood in relation to, 139 

Urine of, 360 ; blood in, 357 

Yellow pigment evidencing, 304 
Blanchard, cited, 210 and note 

Blastomycetes (yeasts), 404 ; differentiated from Schizomycctes, 377 
Blepharoceridce, 163 
Blood : 

Animal parasites found in, 69, 117 

Colorimetric estimations of haemoglobin in, 425-428 



464 INDEX 

Blood continued. 

Chemical reaction of, 135-136 

Circulating, sporulation of parasites in, 80 

Coagulation time, estimation of, 135 

Composition of, 40, 134 

Corpuscles, see Red blood corpuscles and Leucocytes. 

Counts, method of, 416-420 

Crescents in, diagnosis of, 96 

Destruction of, pigments evidencing, 303-304, 305 

Examination of, for pathogenic bacteria, 132-133 

Faeces, in, 319-320 

Films: 

Changes in shed blood, method of showing, 91-92 

Decolourised, 73-74 

Dried, preparation of, 48-51 ; fixation, 51 ; staining, 52 et seq. ; 

value of, in recognition of parasites, 69-70 

Fluid, preparation of, 41-44 ; appearances in, 44-47 ; staining of, 47- 
48 ; value of, in recognition of parasites, 69-70 ; appearances 
mistaken for non-pigmented parasites, 93-95 

Fresh, examination of, 41 ; elements normally present in, 44; crescents 
in, 243 

Isotonic strength of, 138-139 

Laked, 140 

Myelocytes in, 423 

Parasites in, occurrence of, 40 ; recognition of, 93-97 

Protozoa, examination for, methods, 69-74 

Quantity of, method of obtaining, 134-135 

Specific gravity of, 135 

Spectroscopic examination of, 136-137 

Tonicity, estimation of, 138-139; range of variation, 139-140 
Blood plasma, trypanosomes in, 69 ; parasites in, 106 et. seq, ; prevention of 

coagulation, 134 
Blood platelets : 

Examination for, 47 

Haematoxylin stain for, 53 

Recognition of, 96 

Romanowsky's stain, effect of, 66 
Blood serum : 

Culture medium, as, 146 

Hypertonicity of, 140 

Opsonins in, function of, 146; estimation of opsonic index, I'46-I47 

Precipitins formed by, of related animals, 144-145 

Substances due to infection of micro-organisms in, 144 

Wright's tubes for obtaining and diluting, 141-144 
Blood-vessels, trematodes in, 337 
Borax methylene blue for detection of protozoa, 70-71 
Bothriocephalus, 337 
Bouche, cited, 189, 190 
Brachycera % differential characters and genera, 457 



INDEX 



465 



Brachycerous flies, 156 
Braddon : 

Method of preparing fresh fluid blood films, 42-44 

Solution for staining fresh blood films, 47 and note 
Brain : 

Demonstration of parasites in, 82-84 

Pigmentation in, natural and malarial, 81-82 

Sporulation of malignant tertian parasite in, 80, 8 1 

Weight of, in Negroes and Indians, 22, 455 
Brauer, cited, 160 
Brazil : 

Filarice occurring in, 129 

Malaria carrier in, 218 

Mosquitoes of, 220 
British Guiana : 

Filarite occurring in, 128 

Madura foot in, 399 
Broth, glycerine, 370 

Nutrient, preparation of, 366 ; neutralisation of, 366-369 ; sterilisation 

of, 369 

Buffalo, parasite of tsetse-fly disease harboured by, 108 
Bunsen burner for spirit, 3, 4 
Burma, Cimex rotundatus in, 285 

Calliphora (blue-bottle flies), genus and characters of, 154, 178, 179 

Colorimetric estimations, 425-428 

Cambridge rocking microtome, 37, 38 

Camera lucida, 13 

Cammidge, cited, 364 

Canada, Anopheles maculipennis found in, 216 

Canada balsam, mounting of mosquitoes* in, 227-228 

Canaries, proteosoma in, 98 

Carbol fuchsin : 

Decolourised films, for staining, 74 

Tropical use, for, 389 

Trypanosomes demonstrated by, 109 

Carbol thionin, micro-organisms in tissues demonstrated by, 71, 83-85 
Cat, Opisthorchisfelinetis, the host of, 343 
Catageiomyia, 220 
Cathcart's microtome, 33 
Cattle : 

Mai de Caderas in, 108 

Micro-organisms pathogenic to, 402-403 

Parasites of, 193 

Rhodesian fever in, causation and transmission of, 100 

Timothy grass bacillus of, 387 

Texas fever, causation and transmission of, 100 

Tsetse-fly disease in, 107 
Cecidomyida (gall-midges), 162 
30 



466 INDEX 

Cell protoplasm : 

Cloudy swelling of, 307 

Degenerations of, fatty, see that title ; amyloid, 309; fibrous, 309-310 
Cellia, 198, 215, 218 
Cellia argyrotarsis , 247 

Celloidin imbedding, 33 ; cutting of sections, 38 
Centrifuge, 395 
Ceratophyllus, 278, 279 
Ceratopogon, 164, 165 
Ceratopsylla.) 279 
Cercomonas hominis, 355 
Cestodes (tape- worms) : 

Canine, 337, 338 

Classification of, 350 

Definitive hosts of, 332, 333 

Diagnosis of species, 336-337 

Eggs of, in faeces, 330 

Human, 332 

Structure of, 333-336 
Chad, Lake, Auchmeromyia around, 189 
Ckagasia t 214 
Charts : 

Distribution and incidence of disease, parasites, &c., indicated by, 453-454 

Malarial incidence, &c., represented by, 444-453 

Principle of making, 443-444 
Chester, cited, 389 
China : 

Myzorhynchiis sintnsis found in, 218 

Trematodes found in, 343 
Chinese : . 

Meckel's diverticulum in, 22 

Organs of, average weight of, 455 

Splenic enlargement in, 23 
Chironomid<z (midges), 164-165 
Chloroform vapour, mosquitoes killed by, 232 
Chlorosis : 

Blood changes in, 59-60 and note 

Reduced haemoglobin in, 421 
Chlorides in water, 414 ; detection of, 412 
Christophers, cited, 101, 102, 103, 292 
Chromatin, stains for demonstrating, 62-64, 66 
Chrysomyia, characters and occurrence of, 178-179, 1 86- 1 88 
Chrysops, 169, 171, 172 
Chrystya, 214 

Cimex lectularius and C. rotundaltts, 284-285 
CimicidcE, characters and genera of, 283-285 
Cobb, cited, 124 
Cocci, 6 1 

Coccidia, metamorphosis of, 311-312; found in man, 312; demonstration of, 
in tissues, 312-313 ; in foeces, 354 



INDEX 



467 



Coccidiidea, 105 
Coccidium cuniculi, 312 
C. bigeminum, 312 
C. homimis, 312 
Coleoptera, 151, 152 
Congo, the : 

Auchmeromyia of, 1 89 

Ticks of, 296 

"Congo floor Maggot," 187 
Connective tissue, filaria; in, 123, 124, 128, 129 
Copepoda, 299 

Copper in water, detection of, 406-407 
Corethridce, classification of, 211 
Corethrina, differential characters, 207, 208; classification of, 207, 211; 

genera of, 212 
Cotylogonimus, 342, 343 
Cover-glasses for tropical use, 16-18 
Crescents, recognition of, in decolourised films, 73 
Cropper, cited> 46 
Crows, parasite of, 98 
Crustacea, 299 
Ctenocephalus, 278, 279 
Ctenocephalus serraticeps (dog-flea) 273 
Ctenopsylla, 279 
Cuba, madura foot in, 399 
Culex :- 

Clypeus of, 198 

Differential characters of, 221, 222 

Eggs of, 210, 252, 254 

Genera of, 222 

Head and scutellum of, 198 

Larvae of, 261 

Occiput, scales of, 202 

Pupae of, 269 

Wing of, 163, 204 
Culex dorsalis, eggs of, 252, 254 
C.fatigans, 222, 244, 247 
C. pipiens, 219, 222 
Culicid larvte, cannibal, 255 
CuliciJcC) see Mosquitoes 
Culicince : 

Differentiation of, 202, 208, 209, 210, 219-222 

Eggs of, 252, 253 

Feeding time of, 153 

Larvae of, 261 

Culture making, 26 ; blood serum as culture medium, 146 
Cycloleppterotiy 204, 214 
Cyclops, fresh water, 299 
Cyclorrhapha, characters and genera of, 160-161, 457 



468 INDEX 

Cydorrhapha aschiza, characters and subdivisions, 161, 175 

C. schizophora, characters and subdivision of, 161, 175, et seq. 

Cynomyia, 178 

Cynonyia mortuorum, 178 

Cyprus, Schistosonia found in, 357 

Cysts, contents of, boiling method of examination 29 



DADDY-LONG-LEGS (Ttpuld), wing of, 158-159 

Daniels ia, 221 

Davainea, 337 

Delhi boils, parasites of, 116, 315 

Deinocerites, 224 

Demodex follicularum, 298 

Demodtcidce, 287, 298 

Dendromyia, 225 

Dendromyina, characters of, 202, 210, 225 

Dengue fever, 250' 

Dentition tables for Europeans, 434, note 

Dermacentor, 296 

Dermacentor reticulatus, 101 

Dertnatobia, 154, 177 

D. noxialis, 176 

Desert-rat, see Jerboa 

Desvoidea, characters of, 219, 220 ; larvce, 261 

Desvoidy, cited, 178, 189, 190 

Diarrhoea : 

Stools of, 355, 356 

Tropical, 321-322 
Dibothriocephaloidea, 337, 350 
Dibothriocephalus fuscus, 338 
Dicroccclium, 342, 343 
Diplococci, 377 

Diplogonoporus, 337 

Diptera : 

Bite, virulent, of, 153 

Characters and structure of, 151, 155-160 

Classification of, 160 et seq., 456-457 

Disease germs carried by, 154 

Feeding times of different species, 153 

Fleas, see Aphaniptera 

Hosts of human parasites, as, 154-155 

Larvse of, 152, 1 60 

Man, means of harming, 153 

Parasitism of, internal and cutaneous myiasis, 153-154 

Pupae of, 1 60 

Young, living, production of, 1 60 
Dipyliditim, 336-337 
Dipylidimu caninum, 273, 338 









INDEX 469 

Dog: 

Definitive host of some tape-worms, as, 332, 337 

Epidemic jaundice of, causation and transmission of, loo-ioi 

Filar ia immitis in, 117, 123-124, 249 

H(Ctnogregarines in, in Assam, 102 

Parasites of, 193, 299 

Piroplasmosis of, transmission of, 293-294 

Trematodes, the hosts of, 343 
Dourine, trypanosome of, 108 

Dragon-flies, larvae of, hostile to larvae of mosquitoes, 150 
Drepaniditim, Schuffner's granules found with, 88 
Dysentery, stools of, 322, 323, 352, 355 

EGYPT, Cotylogonimus heterophyes found in, 343 

Elephantiasis, 123 

Emphysematous changes in organs, 24 

Empididce, 174-175 

Endocarditis, septic, leucocytosis in, 422 

England : 

Anopheles maculipennis found in, 216 

Blackwater fever in, 452 
Entam&ba histolytica y 354 
Enteric fever, urine of, 362 
Entozoa, examination for, 24 
Eosin stain for myelocytes, 59 

Eosin and haematoxylin stain, blood parasites shown by, 60 
Eretmapodites, 204, 220 
Erysipelas, urine of, 362 
Europeans : 

Dentition tables for, 434 

Organs of, average weights of, 455 

Faeces : 

Analysis of, 324-325 

Bile pigments and acids in, 321 

Bulk of, in native races and Europeans, 322-323 

Coccidia in, 354 

Contamination of water, milk, &c., by, detection of, 392-393 

Eggs in, numerical estimation of, 425 

Examination of, macroscopic, 318 et seq. ; microscopic, 327-331 

Flagellated organisms in, 355 

Larvae of Anthomyidce in, 190-191 

Mucus in, 319-320 

Parasites and their ova in, 326-331 

Protozoa in, 352 

Reaction, normal, 322 

Spirocfuztte found in, 112, 355 
Fasciola, 342, 343 



47 INDEX 

Fasciola hepatica, life-history of, 341-342 

Fasciolida, eggs of, in faeces, 330 ; description of, 339 ; human genera of, 

342 ; subfamilies of, 350 
Fasdolopsis, 342, 343 
Fats in faeces, 325-326 
Fatty degeneration : 

Estimation of extent of, 308 

Occurrence of, 308-309 

Stains demonstrating, 307-308 
Favus, 400 
Feltinella, 214 
Fever : 

African relapsing : 

Carriers of, 284, 293 
Leucocytic variation in, 456 
Spirochaeta of, in. 
Watery motions of, 323 

Texas fever, transmission of, 293 
Fibrous degeneration, demonstration of, 309-310 
Ficalbia, 22$ 

Filaria bancrofti, 126, 127 ; intermediate host for, 217 
F. demarqtiayi, 130, 131 

F. immitis, mosquitoes as hosts of, 194, 249 ; intermediate hosts of, 216 
F. medinensis (guinea- worm), 299 
F. nocturna \ 

Development of, in mosquitoes, 247-248 ; species of mosquitoes carrying, 
222, 247 

Urine, in, 357, 358 
F. ozzardi, 126, 127 
F. perstans, 130, 131 
Filaria : 

Adult forms, 117 ; occurrence of, 123-124 , 

Avian, 124, 250 

Carriers of, 218, 224 

Development of, in mosquitoes, 194, 247-249 

Differentiation of human, 128-129, *3 2 

Diptera as intermediate hosts of, 155 

Measurement of, 124-125 

Occurrence of, 316 

Preparation of specimens, 129-132 
Filarial embryos : 

Avian, growth of, 123 

Blood, fresh, in, 117-118; in blood plasma, 106 ; enumeration of, in 
blood, 423 

Differentiation of species, 121-122 

Discharge of, through the skin, 117 

Dried films, examination of, in, 119-120; staining of, 120 

Fresh, examination of, 118, 119 

Mosquitoes, development in, 123 

Periodicity, 121, 122 



INDEX 4/1 

Filariasis, blood changes in, 58 
Finches, parasite of, 98 
Finlaya, 221 
Fishes : 

Parasites of, 313 

Trypanosomes in, 106 
Fixation and hardening : 

Macroscopical specimens, of, 24-26 

Microscopical specimens, of, 26-29 
Flagellata, 115 

Flagellating bodies, stained specimens of, 92 
Fleas, see Aphaniptera 

Fleischl, von, calorimetric estimation of haemoglobin, by, 426-428 
Flies, classification of, by antennse, 156 
Flemming's solution, 29 
Forest-flies, young of, 160 
Formalin, use of, in museum preparations, 25 
Formaldehyde, fixation by, 51 
Formol alcohol, as reagent in tropical work, 27-28 
Formosa, 218 
Fowls, parasites of, 193 
Fox, the host of Opisthorchis noverca, 343 
Foxes, flying, parasites in blood of, 100 
Fresenius, " Quantitative Analysis" cited^ 414 
Fungi, tropical, 400-401, 404 



GAD-FLIES, see Tabanida 
Galgey, 123 
Gamasidtz, 287 
Gametocyte : 

Changes in, 89-91 

Chromatin in, 78, 91, 92 

Genesis of, 93 

Shape of, in different species of parasite, 88-89 
Gastrodiscus, 342-344 
Gelatine, nutrient, 370-371 
Giles, cited, 242 
Gilesia, 221 

Giemsa's method of staining films, 65-66, 72 
Glass, deterioration of, in the Tropics, 12-13 
G/ossina : 

Differential characters of, 178, 182 

Genus and characters of, 178 

Internal anatomy, 184 

Larvse of, 183 

Mouth-parts of, 183 

Occurrence of, 183 

Synoptic table of species, 184-186 



47 2 INDEX 

Glossina morsitans, 108, 184 

Glycerine jelly, mounting of mosquitoes in, 228 

Glycerine, nutrient, 370 

Gmelin's reaction of bile pigment, 321 

Goadby, K. W., dentition tables of, 434, note 

Goats : 

Heartwater in, transmission of, 294 

Micro-organism pathogenic to, 403 
Goeldia, 225 
Gonococcus, 403 
Goudot, cited, 177 
Gower's hsemocytometer, 418 

t slide, 415, 416; as substitute for micrometer slide, 13 

,, hsemoglobinometer, 426 

,, solution for demonstrating agglutinins in serum, 144 
Grabhamia, 220, 221 

Gram's method of differentiating micro-organisms, 85, 382-383 
Granuloma, sclerosing, spirochaetse found in, 112 
Gregarinoidea, 105 
Griibler, 62 
Griinbaum, cited, 419 
Griinbaum-Widal reaction, 396-397 
Guinea-pigs, micro-organisms pathogenic to, 402-403 
Guinea-worm, intermediate host for, 299 



Hadrus, characters of, 169; example of, 171-172 

Hizmaphysalis, 296 

Hcemaphy sails leachi, 100, 293-294 

Hcematobia (house-flies), 178, 182 

Hamatopota, 169-171 

Haematoxylin stain : 

Blood films, for, 52-56 

Demonstration by, of, brain parasites, 82-83 ; fUarire, 120 ; filarial 

embryos, 122; malarial parasites, 85 ; protozoa, 70 

Hsematoxylin and eosin stain for detection of blood parasites, 60 ; pro- 
tozoa, 70 

Haematuria, causation of, 357-358 ; distinguished from hremoglobinuria, 357. 
Hemoglobin : 

Colorimetric estimations of, 425-428 

Dissolved, in serum, 140 

Occurrence of, 138 

Solution of, see Blood -Tonicity 

Spectrum of, 137 ; of reduced haemoglobin, 136, 137 
Hremoglobinuria : 

Geographical distribution of, 358-359 

Tropical, 357 

Haemoglobinuric fever, anaemia after, 421 
Hccmogogus, 224 



INDEX 473 

Hamogregarina, occurrence and development of, 102-104 ; in blood plasma, 

106 ; zoological position of, 105 
Hiemogregarina balfouri, 104, 105 
H. gerbilli, 104, 105 
H. ranarum, 105 
Haemolysis, anaemia due to, 421 
Hamosporidia, development of, 74-75 ; structure of, type of young form, 

76-77 > sexual cycle, 98 ; zoological position, 105 
Hair, demonstration of fungi of, 400-401 
Hair follicles, parasites of, 298 

Halteridium in birds, 98-100 ; zoological position of, 105 ; in blood plasma, 106 
Hearson's incubator, 19 
Heart : 

Dogs', filarise in, 123-124 

Filarice in, 129 
Hemiptera, 151, 152, 281-285 
Heptaphlebomyince, 205, 211 
Hermann's solution, 29 
Herpetomonas, 115 
Hewlett, cited, 362 
" Hielscher's tubes," 313 
Hippoboscidtz, 191-193 
ffomalomyia, 182-191 

Horder's method of preparing fresh fluid blood films, 44 
Horse : 

Definitive host of larvae of Gastrophilus equi, 154 

Parasites of, 193 

Surra fatal to, 1 08 

Trypanosoma diniorphum in, 1 08 
Howard, 450 
Howardina, 221, 224 
Huleceoteomyia, 221 
Huppert's test for bile pigment, 321 
Hyalomma, 295 
Hyalomma agyptium, 101 

Hydrotea, characters of, 189 ; larvae of, in faeces, 190 
H. ciliata, wing of, 191 

Hylomyia, characters of, 190; larvae of, in faeces, 190-191. 
Hymenoptera, 150-151 
Hyphomycetes (moulds), 400-401, 404 ; differentiated from schizomycetes, 377 ; 

connecting link between schizomycetes and, 378 
Hystrichopsylla, 279 



INCUBATOR : 

Advantage of, in tropical countries, 4, 19-20 

Home-made, 4, note 
India : 

Cimex rotundatus in, 285 



474 INDEX 

India continued, 

Epidemic jaundice of dogs in, 101 

Madura foot in, 399 

Malaria carriers in, 217 

Myzomyia rossii in, 216 

Surra, occurrence of, in, 108 

Ticks of, 269 

Trematodes found in, 343 

Indian field-rat, Hcemogregarina gerbilli in blood corpuscles of, 103, 104 
Indian plague commission, work of, 273 
Indian sparrow, proteosoma in, 98 
Indians : 

Brain weight at different ages in, 455 

Organs of, average weights of, 455 

Splenic enlargement in, 23, 455 

Susceptibility of, to blackwater fever, 451-452 
Indican in urine, 360-361 
Indol formation by bacteria, 393 
Infection, carrying of, by diptera, 1 54 
Infusoria in feces, 356 
Insecta : 

Metamorphosis of, 151-152 

Structural characteristics of, 149 

Sub-divisions of, characteristics of, 149-151 
Instruments and reagents, 457-458 
Intestines : 

Blood stasis in, consequent on malarial infection, 85 

CestoJes in, 332-337 

Examination of, in the Tropics, 24 

Gaseous distension of, 24 

Nematodes in, 344 

Trematodes in, 339 

Iron pigment, blood destruction evidenced by, 305 
Iron in water, detection of, 405-406 
Isotonic solutions, 138 
Ixodes, 295 

Ixodidte, characters of, 287 ; sub-families of, 287-290 
Ixodince : 

Characters of, 288-291, 294, 295 

Genera of, 295 

Ova of, number of, 293 

Piroplasmoses carried by, 293 

JAMES, cited, 103, 215 
Janthinosoma, 204, 220 
Japan : 

Larval form of B. mansoni found in man in, 332 

Trematodes found in, 343 



INDEX 475 



Jaundice, hsematogenous, 140 

Jays, parasite of, 98 

Jerboa, parasites in red blood corpuscles of, 103, 104 

Jigger-flea (Sarcopsylla penetrans), 154, 278, 280-281 

Joblotincs, 198, 202, 2 II 

Journal of Hygiene, cited, 269 

Journal of Tropical Medicine, cited, 447 

Jung's slide microtome, 38 



KAISERLING'S method of preparing specimens, 25 
Kala-azar : 

Flagellate forms discharged from intestinal ulcers in, 116 

Leishman- Donovan bodies found in, 97 

Leucocytosis in, 422 

Leucocytic variation in, 57, 456 

Parasites of, 315 ; carriers of, 284 

Yellow pigment found in, 303 
Kasan, Russia, bed-bugs from, 285 
Kerteszia, 214 
Kidneys : 

Fatty degeneration in, 307, 308 

Yellow pigment in, 314 
Koch, cited, 101, 385 ; postulates on the pathogenicity of organisms, 398 

LABORATORY, tropical, description of, 1-5 

Lasioconops , 221 

Lave ran, cited, 115 

Lead in water, detection of, 406 

Leicesleria, 222 

Leishman-Donovan bodies : 

Chromatin masses in, 114, 115 

Demonstration of, 113-114, 315 

Genus of, 115 

Occurrence of, 97, 113, 314 

Pathogenesis of, 116 
Leishman : 

Modification of Romanowsky's stain, 62-63 > f r demonstrating brain 
parasites, 82; Leishman-Donovan bodies, 114; myelocytes, 68; 
protozoa, 72-73 ; Schuffner's granules, 87-88 ; structure of malarial 
parasites, 77-78; trypanosomes, 109-110 

Gametocytes of benign tertian and quartan recognised by, 91 
Leitz camera lucida, 13 
Lepidoptera, 151, 152, 191 
Lepra bacillus, 386 
Leprosy : 

Amyloid degeneration in, 309 

Carriers of, 284 



47 6 INDEX 



173-174 
Leptitue, 174 
Leptothrix, 378 
Leucocytes : 

Abnormal elements resembling, 58-59 

Animal blood, of, parasites found in, 102-103 

Differential count of, method of making, 58, 417-426, 422 

Eosinophile, 56 

Fresh fluid films, appearances in, 46 

Hoematoxylin stain for, 54-56 

Increase in total number of, 422 

Large mononuclear, 55, 56 

Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 97, 113 

Lymphocytes, 55, 56, 67 

Mononuclear, 67 

Pigmented, 78 

Polymorphonuclear, 55-56 

Romanowsky's stain, effect of, 67 

Variations in numbers and relative proportions of, in health and disease, 
455-456 ; variations after malaria, 56-58 

Varieties of, in normal blood, 54-56 
Leucocytosis, 422 
Leucocytheemia, 58, 60 
Lericocytozoon cants, 103, 104, 105 
L. funambuli) 104, 105 
Lichen hypertrophicus, 306 
202, 225 

286, 298-299 
Liver : 

Fatty degeneration in, 307, 308 

Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 113, 114 

Melanin in, in malarial infection, 302, 303 

Puncture of, 315 

Trematodes in, 337 
Lophoceratomyid) 220 
Lophoscelomyia, 214 

Louis Jenner stain for blood films, 61-62 ; protozoa demonstrated by, 72, 73 
Louse, sporogony of Hamogregarina gerbilli in, 104 
Low, cited, 238, 269 

Lucilia (blue-bottle flies), genus and characters of, 178, 179, 184, 186, 187 
Lungs : 

Filarial embryos in, 122 

Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 113 

Negro races, of, 23 

Post mortem, weight of, in Tropics, as compared with European standards, 
22 ; variations in, with time after death, 455 

Trematodes in, 337 
Lutz, cited) 21 1 



INDEX 477 



Lymphatic system : 
Filaria in, 123, 128 
Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 1 
Preparation of cultures from, 26 

Lymphocytes ; 

Haematoxylin stain for, 55 
Romanowsky's stain for, 67 



MACCALLUM, cited, 98 

MacConkey, cited, 392 

MacCrorie's method of flagella staining, 381-382 

Macleaya, 220 

Macrogametes, 90, 98 

Macroscopical specimens, preparation of, 24-26 

Madura foot, organism of, 399, 401, 402 

Magalhaes, cited, 117 

Mai de Caderas, 108 

Malaria : 

Age incidence of, 433-434 

Bile in urine of, 359 

Blackwater fever, occurrence with, 452 

Blood changes in, 59 

Cause of death in acute, 81, 84 

Cerebral symptoms in, 80, 8 1, 84 

Endemic index, 436 ; determination of, 438-443 ; spleen test for, 440-441 ; 
graphic representation of methods of determining, 444-447 

General health, effects on, 435 

Hosts, definitive and intermediate, of, 75 

Immunity from, 436, 445 

Incubation, natural, period of, 435-436 

Individual susceptibility, line of enquiry as to, 431 

Infection, liability to, 432-433 

Influence of, on prevalence and seventy of other diseases, 448, 449 

Leucocytic variations in and after, 57, 422, 456 

Mortality from, 434-435 

Parasites of, see Parasites 

Pigment of, 301-303 ; demonstration of, 304-305 

Place, influence of, 432, 437 ; chart showing residence required for 
probable infection with, 446-447 

Pneumonia coexistent with, 423 

Prevalence of, estimation of, 433 

Prophylactic measures for, success of, charts illustrating, 447-449 

Relapses, 433, 438 

Seasonal variation in, effect of rainfall, 437 

Splenic enlargement in, 445 ; pigmentation in, 446 

Stools of, 323-324 

Malay Peninsula and Archipelago, malaria carrier in, 218-219 
Malaya, mosquitoes of, 218, 220, 222 



INDEX 

Malignant tertian (sub-tertian) parasite : 

Asexual cycle, length of, 79 

Corpuscle, containing, effect on, 88 

Development, asexual and sexual, phases in, 89 

Diagnosed from benign tertian and quartan, 94 

Gametocyte form of, 88-89 

Male and female crescents, 90-92 

Pigment deposits in, 86 

Sporulation, number of spores at each, 79 ; site for, 80 

Zoological position of, 105 
Malta fever : 

Agglutination test in, 396-397 

Bacillus of, in urine, 361 

Leucocytic variation in, 57, 456 
Mammals, parasites of, 191, 298, 299 
Man: 

Coccidia found in, 312 

Filariae developed in, 249 

Infection of, with Trichina spiralis, 351 

Intermediate host of echinococcus, 332 

Micro-organisms pathogenic to, 402-403 

Parasites of, 189, 193, 284, 298, 299, 313 

Trematodes, host of, 343 

Jlfansoma, occiput scales of, 202; wing scales of, 204, 219; differential 
characters, 221, 223 ; genera and habitat, 223-224 ; number of sperma- 
thecre, 242 ; eggs of, 254 ; pupee of ? 269 
Mansonia unifonnis, M. albipes and M. annulipes, 224, 227 
Mast cells, Romanowsky's stain for, 67 
Mashonaland, mosquito of, 211 

Mastigophora, in human blood, 69 ; parasites of class of, in blood plasma, 
106 ; spirochieta of relapsing fever belonging to, lii; Leishman- 
Donovan bodies belonging to, 115 
Measles, urine of, 302 
Measurements, microscopic, 415-416 
Megarhinitite : 

Characters of, 207 

Classification of, 211 

Eggs of, 253 

Genera of, 212 

Head and scutellum of, 198 

Larvae of, 258, 259, 261 

Occiput scales of, 202 

Pupal stage of, 259 
Megaropus, 296 
Megaropus anmilattts, 293 
Meigen, cited, 177 
Melanoconion, 220, 221 
Melanin, 301-303 
Melophagus ovinus, 192, 193 



INDEX 



479 



Membranous colitis, 319 

Mercury, perchloride of, saturated solution of, fixation by, 51 
Merozoites, 74 
Me s cos I aides lineatus, 338 
Methremoglobin, spectrum of, 136, 137 
Methylene blue, combination of, with eosin, 61-63 
Methylic alcohol as a fixative, 72 
Mice, micro-organisms pathogenic to, 402-403 
Micrococcus melitensis, 403 

Microfilaria nocturna and M. diurna, 121, 122 
Microgametes, 90, 98 

Micrometer eyepiece, measurements by, 415-416 
Micro-organisms, vegetable, see Vegetable micro-organisms 
Microscope for tropical use, 5-6 ; parts of, 7-8 ; illuminating apparatus, 8, 
11-12; cost of, 9; lenses, 9-13; testing of, 9-13; measurements, 
13-15, 415-416; dissecting, 15; warm stage, 15; slides, 16; cover- 
glasses, 1 6- 1 8 
Microscopic examination : 

Fresh specimens, of, 26 

Preparation of tissues for, fixation and hardening methods, 26-29 " 

imbedding, 29-33 
Microtomes : 

Freezing, 33-36 

Paraffin and celloidin sections, for, 37-38 
Mimomyia, 225 

Mirrors, silvered, deterioration of, in the Tropics, 12 
Monkeys : 

African and Asiatic, parasites in blood of, 100 

Micro-organisms pathogenic to, 403 

Relapsing fever reproduced in, ill 

Uganda, of, piroplasma found in, 101 
Monogenia, 341 
Monostomidce, 342 
Mosquitoes :. 

Alimentary canal of, 232-237 

Bacilli in, 250 

Breeding places of, 258 ; permanent, 265-267 ; temporary, 267-268 ; 
artificial, 268 

Carriage of, 269-272 

Characters of, 162-163 

Classification of, 206-213; Theobald's, 206, 211-213; proposed, 261 

Definitive hosts of malaria parasites, as, 75, 90, 99, 244-247 

Differentiation of species, 162, 194-195, 202, 206, 226-227 

Diseases acquired by larvae and distributed by adult, 250 

Dissection of, 229-242; alimentary canal, 232-237 ; stomach, 239-241 ; 
salivary glands, 241-242; genital organs, 242 

Eggs of, 252-254, 263 ; obtaining, 254-255 

Examination of external characters, method, 227-228 



480 INDEX 

Mosquitoes continued. 

Filaria developed in, 123, 247-249 

Food for, in captivity, 272 

Genital organs of, 242 

Gregarines in, 250-251 

Head appendages of, 199 

Hosts of different parasites, as, 75, 99, 194, 244-247 

Killing, means of, 232 

. Larvae of, destroyed by larvae of dragon-flies, 150; metamorphosis of, 
151 ; breeding collection of, 255-258; duration of larval stage, 259 ; 
anatomy of, 259-265 ; respiratory syphon attached to 8th segment 
259-261, 264 

Microscopic examination of, 197 

Mounting of specimens, 195-196, 227-228 

Occiput, scales of, 202 

Order of, 161 

Proboscis of, 229-232 

Proteosoma infection transmitted by, 98 

Pupae, collection of, 258 ; duration of pupal stage, 259, 263 ; anatomy 
of, 262^263 ; description of, 269 

Scales, types of, 197-199 

Sections of, 237-239 

Stomach of, 239-241 

Structure of, 194, 199-202, 232-237, 239-241, 242 

Sub-families of, 207-212 

Wings of, 203-205 

Yellow fever carried by, 250 
Motuca fly of Brazil, 172 
Mounting and imbedding reagents, 458 

Mouth, Spirochcctic found in, 112; mucous membranes of, normal pigmenta- 
tion of, 306 

Mucidus, 204, 219, 220 
Muir's method of flagella staining, 380-381 
Mtiller's fluid, 28 
Murray, cited, 283 
Musca (house-fly), 178 
Muscida : 

Characters and genera of, 178, et seq. 

Halteres of, 159 
Mtiscidic acalyptral<e, 175 
M. calyptra, 175, 182 
Museum preparations, methods, 24-26 

Myelocytes, 58-59 ; Leishman's stain for, 68 ; Romanowsky's stain for, 67-68 
Myiasis, internal and cutaneous in animals and man, 154 
Myxosporidct) 313 
Myzoviyia, anomalous character of genus of, 213 ; differentia characters, 214, 

216 

Myzotnyia culictfacies, 217 
M. funesta, 217, 244, 247 



INDEX 481 

M. rffsszi, 216-217 
Myzorhynchella, 214 
Myzorhynchus, 215, 217-218 
M. barbirostris, 218, 247 
M. sinensis; 218, 247 

NAGANA, trypanosoma of, 107 
Natal, auchmeroniyia in, 189 
Necator, Americanus, 346-348 
Negroes : 

Black water fever, susceptibility to, 451 

Brain weight at different ages, 455 ; age of maximum weight, 22 

Lungs, deeply fissured, in, 23 

Organs of, average weight of, 455 

Parasites in livers of, 299 

Splenic enlargement in, 23, 440, 455 
Neniatoda, 69, 117; in blood plasma, 106 ; in tissues, 316-317; human, 344; 

treatment of specimens, 344 ; classification of, 350 
Nematocera, characters and genera, 156, 157, 456 
Nematocera vera and N. anoma/a, 456-457 
Neocellia, 215 
Neopsylla, 279 
Neosporidia, 105, 314 

Nerve degeneration, demonstration of, 309-310 
Nessler's solution, preparation of, 409 
Neuroptera, 150, 151 

Newham, H. B. G., analysis of water by, 404-414 
Nigeria, A. watsont found in, 343 
Nitrates in water, 414; detection of, 410-412 
Nitrites in water, detection of, 410 
Norway rat, parasite of, 104 
Notter, cited, 414 

Nutrient agar, 371-372; nutrient broth, see Broth; nutrient gelatine, 370-371 
Nuttall, cited, 145, 269 
Nycteribida, 193 
Nyssorhynchus, 215, 218 



Ochromyia (Gayer or Senegal fly), 178 

Oestrida (warble-flies), 175-177 

Old Calabar, 218 

Oliver's colorimetric estimation of hcemoglobin, 426 

Ookinet, 90 

Opisthorchis, 342, 343 

Opsonins, specificity, 146 ; estimation of opsonic index, 146-147 

Organs, average weights of, 455 ; variation of weight between Tropics and 

European countries, 22 
Oriental sores, parasites of, 315 
Ornithodoros, 294 

3* 



482 INDEX 

Ornithodoros moubata and 0. savignyi> characters and distribution of, 296 ; 

transmission of, 293 ; larvae of, 293 
Orth's fluid, 28 
Orihoptera, 150-151 
Orthorrhapha, character of, 1 60, 456 

Orthorrhapha brachycera, characters and sub-divisions, 161, 1 68 el seq 
O. nemocera, characters and sub-divisions, 161-167 
Osmic acid mixtures as fixatives, 29 
Owl, little, trypanosome in blood of, 99 
Oxy haemoglobin, spectrum of, 136, 137 
Oxyuris vermicularis, 330, 331, 345 

PALESTINE, Anopheles viaculipennis found in, 216 

Pancreatic duct, obstruction of, 324 

Pangonia, 169, 171 

PangontHi?, 169 

Pangoninus ivestermani, 337, 343 

Parampkistomida t 339, 342-344, 350 

Paraffin imbedding, 30-32 

Paraffin sections, cutting of, 37-38 ; fixation on slide, 38-39 ; treatment of, 39 ; 

of mosquitoes, 237, 239 
Parasites : 

Animal, found in human blood, 117 
Animals, in blood of, 100-105 
Birds, in blood of, 98-100 
Faeces, in, 326-331 
Human malaria: 

Amoeboid movement of, 76, 77, 79-80 
Asexual cycle of development, 75-76, 79 
Chromatin, varying arrangements of, 77'7^ 
Classification of, 78-79 
Carriers of, 211, 217, 218, 225-226 
Corpuscle, containing, effect on, 86-88 
Development of, in stomach of mosquito, 75, 194, 244-247 
Diptera as definitive hosts of, 154-155 
Enumeration of, in blood, approximate method, 423-424 
Flagellating and non-flagellating bodies, 243-244 
Hosts, definitive, of, 216, 217, 244-247 
Melanin deposited by, 301-303 
Pigment deposits in different forms of, 79, 85-86 
Sporulation of, 76, 79, 80 
Staining, methods of, 47-48, 61 

Structure of, appearances in fresh blood, 75-76; in stained speci- 
mens, 76-77 

Zoological position of, 105 
Intestinal, 332 et seq. 
Ova of, measurements of, 331 
Sporozoites, development of, 245-247 
Tissues, in, 311 et seq. 
Zygotes, development of, 244-245 



INDEX 483 

Parrots, parasite of, 98 

Patton, cited, 103, 284, 285 

PediculidcE, 281-283 

Pediculus capitis and P, vestimenli, 282-283 

Pedipalpi, 286 

Pelvis, parasites in veins of, 117 

Pentastomiida:, 286 

Pentasiomum constrictum, 299 

Pettenkuffer's reaction for bile acids, 321 

Phagocytosis, 146 

Philippines, occurrence of surra in. 108 

PhlebotoniuS) 165-166 

Phoniomyia, 225 

Phthirius inguinalis (crab-louse), 283 

Phylum nemathebninthes and P. platyhelminthes, 350 

Pigeons, parasite of, 98 ; lice of, 281 ; micro-organisms pathogenic to, 403 

Pigment deposits in malaria, 301-303 

Pigs, infection of, with Trichina spiralis, 351 ; parasites of intestines of, 356 

Pine Islands, anthrax in, 171 

Piroplasma bigeminum, 100, 101, 105 

P. cants, 100, 101, 105 

P. equi, 101, 105 

/>. murts, 101 

P. ovis, IOI, 105 

P. parvum^ 100, 105 

Piroplasmata, occurrence and development of, 100-102 ; zoological position, 

105 ; in blood plasma, 10 ; carried by ticks, 293 
Pityriasis versicolor, 400 
Plasmodium (Haemamoeba), 105 
P. falciparum, see Malignant tertian parasite 
P. kochi, 100, 105 

P. malarice, see Benign quartan parasite 
/. prtecox, see Proteosoma 
P. vivax, see Benign tertian parasite 
Pneumococcus, 402 
Pneumonia: 

Leucocytic variation in, 57, 422, 456 

Malaria co-existent with, 423 

Watery motions in, 323 
Poisson's formula, 429-430, 449-450 
Porocephalus armiltatus, 299 
Portal system, parasites in veins of, 117 
Post-mortem examinations in the Tropics, 21-22 ; special observations as to, 

22-24 

Precipitins, value of, in classification of animals, 144-145 
" Primus" kerosene smokeless burner, 4 
"Primus" lamps, 19 

Proteosoma of birds, mosquitoes the host of, 194, 222, 244 ; occurrence of, 
98 ; zoological position of, 105 



484 INDEX 

Protozoa : 

Acquired by acquatic larvae and distributed by adult, 251 

Classification of, causing malaria, 105 

Demonstration of, in tissues, 84 

Examination of blood for ; methods, 69-74 

Stools, in, 352 

Tissues, in, 311 
Pseudoscorpionidcii 286 
Psorophora, 204, 220, 241, 254 
Psjfchodidd (owl-midges), 165-166 
Pulex ckeopis, 278-280 

Pulicidce (fleas), characters and genera of, 278-280 
Pupipara : 

Antennae of, 156 

Characters and genera of, 161, 191-193, 457 ; young of, 162 
Pyrelophoms, 214, 217 
Pyrelofthorus costalis, 217, 247 
Pyrexia, cell degeneration in, 307 
Python, Royal, parasite in lungs of, 299 

QUARTAN parasite, see Benign quartan parasite 
Queensland, Texas fever in cattle in, 100 
Quinine administration in malaria, 433 

RABBITS :- 

Coccidium hominis parasitic to, 312 

Micro-organisms pathogenic to, 402-403 
Rats : 

Fleas, species of, found on, 280 

Micro-organisms pathogenic to, 403 

Norway, parasite found on, 104 

Parasite in leucocytes of, 103 

Parasites of, 193 

Plague disseminated by, 273 

Relapsing fever reproduced in, in. 

Trichina spiralis harboured by, 351 

Trypanosomata of, 107 
Reagents, 458 

Rectum, chronic ulcerations of, 319 
Red blood corpuscles : 

Bodies simulating ring-forms in, 46 

Counts of, method, 416-420; in anchylostomiasis, 421 ; in anaemia, 421 

Crenation, 45-46 

Hsamatoxylin stain for, 53 

Hsemogregarina in, of animals, 102-104 

Malaria parasites developed in, 75-76 

Modifications of, by different malaria parasites, 86-88 

Nucleated, 53 



INDEX 485 

Red Blood Corpuscles continued. 

Protozoa, examination for, 69 

Sporozoa in, 69 

Tonicity, estimation of, 138-139; range of variation, 139-140 

Vacuoles, recognition of, 45 

Renal casts, boiling method of examination of, 29 
Reunion, Island of, 285 
Rhabdonema intestinale, 349 
Rhipicephala, 295, 296 
RhipicephaJus annulatus, ICO 
R. appendicu/atus, 100 
R. australis, I GO, 101 
R. bursa, lot 
A', evert si, 101 
R. sanguineus, 101, 104 
Rhodesian fever of cattle, 100 
Ringworms, cutaneous, tropical, 400-401 
Robber- flies, see Asilidce 
Rogers, cited, 115, 315-316 
Romano wsky's stain : 

Colours observed with, 66-67 

Modifications of, 62-64 ; Leishman's, see Leishman 

Structure of malarial parasites demonstrated by, 77-78 
Rondani, cited, 178 

Ross, P. H., cited, 74, 98, 101, 216, 218, 250 
Ross and Milne, cited, ill 



Sabethes, 225 

Sabethotdes, 225 

Sabetincc, 210 and note 

Sambon, cited, 299; box designed for carriage of mosquitoes by, 270-271 

Sand-flies, see Simuliiiic 

Sarcocystis, 314 

Sarcoma, melanotic, pigment of, 306 

Sarcophaga, 177 

Sarcophaga carmaria, 177 

Sarcophagi dee, 177-178 

Sarcophila, 178 

Sarcopsylla, 280-281 

S. penetrans, see Jigger-flea 

SarcopsyllidcE, characters and genera, 280-281 ; compared with the 

278-279 
SarcoptidcB, 287 

Sarcosporidia, asexual development of, 313-314 ; demonstration of, 314 
Scarlet fever, urine of, 362 
Scharlach, R., fat demonstrated by, 307 
Schaudinn, cited, 99-100, 112, 354 



INDEX 

SchistosomidcE, 339, 344, 350 

Schistosomum h/zmatobiuin and S. japonicuin, in human blood-vessels, 69, 
IJ 7 3375 i submucosa of bladder or rectum, 316; eggs of, in 
faeces, 328, 329, 330-331 ; blood in urine from, 357-358 
Schizogony, 74 

Schizomycetes, differential characters of, 377 ; morphology, 377-378 ; con- 
necting link between hyphomyceles and, 378 
Schizonts, 74 
Schizophora, 457 

Schmidt's reaction for bile pigment, 321 
Schuffner's dots, 66, 102 
Scorpionidie, 286 

Screw-worm (Compsowyia tnacellaria), 154, 159 
Scurvy, leucocytosis in, 58, 422 
Scutomyia, 221 

Sebaceous glands, parasites of, 298 
Section cutting, 33-38 
Sepsis, leucocytic variation in, 456 
Sheep :- 

Heartwater in, transmission of, 294 

Maggot-in, 186 

Piroplasma ovis in, IOI 
Trematodes, the host of, 343 
Sheep "tick," 155; young of, 160 
Shipley, cited, 125, 344 
Siberia, trematodes found in, 343 
Simulidce, 165, 166-167 
Skin, pigmentation of, 306 
Skusea, 221, 224 

Sleeping sickness, trypanosoma of, 108-109 
Slides for tropical use, 16 
Smegma bacillus, 361, 387 

Snail, fresh-water, intermediate host of Fasciola hepalica, 341 
Solid media, 370-372 
Somaliland, ticks of, 296 
Somerville, cited, 414 
Soudan III., fat demonstrated by, 307 
Sparrow, Indian, proteosoma in, 98 
Specific gravity of organs, determination of, 308 
Spirilla, 377 
Spirochatcc : 

Blood plasma, in, 106 

Demonstration of, ill 

Pathogenic symptoms of different varieties, 111-112 

Stools, in, 355 

Ticks as intermediate hosts of, 293 

Trypanosomes, relationship to, Schaudinn's theory, 112-113 
Spleen : 

Diffluent, 24 



INDEX 487 

Spleen continued. 

Enlargement of : 

Age incidence of, in Central Africa (chart), 445 
Different races, in, 23 
Negroes and Indians, in, 455 
Post-malarial, 435, 440 

Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 113, 114 

Malarial, 23-24 

Melanin in, in malarial infec'iion, 302, 303 

Preparation of cultures from, 26 

Puncture of, 314, 315 

Putrefactive changes in, 23 

Sinuses of, sporulation of parasites in, 80 

Yellow pigment in, 304 
Sporoblasts, 74 
Sporogony, 75 

Sporozoa, in human blood, 69 ; classification of, 105 
Sporozoites, 74, 245-247 
Sprue, stools of, 322, 324 
Squirrel, Kathiawar, kcemogregarin* in leucocytes of, 103 

palm, Leucocytozoon funanibuli found in, 104 

Staining solutions also fixes, 72-73 

Stains, list of, 458 

Staphyloco'-.ci, 146, 377, 402 

Statistics in tropical work, difficulties as to, 429 

Stegomyia : 

Breeding places suited to, 268 

Captivity, keeping in, 272 

Differential characters of, 220, 222-223 

Distribution of, 222-223 

Eggs of, 252, 253, 254; manner of laying, 210 ; carriage of, 269 

Genera of, 223 

Larvae of, 222, 226, 258, 261 

Occiput scales of, 202 

Scales of head and scutellum, 198, 219 ; of clypeus, 198 ; of wing, 204 
Steomyia calopus, 223 

S. fasciata, 223, 247 ; diseases carried by, 250-251 ; eggs of, 253-254 
S. scutellaris , 223 
Steriliser : 

Hot air, 19 

Steam, 18 

Stethomyia, 213-214 
Stomoxys (stable-flies), genus and characters of, 178, 179; mouth-parts, 179- 

180 ; dissection, 181 ; internal anatomy, 181-182 
Straits Settlements, Madura foot in, 399 
Streptobacilli, 377 
Streptococci, 377, 402 
Streptothrix, 378 
S. madurcz, 399-400 



4^8 INDEX 

Streptothrices of actinomycosis, 402 

Strongyloides intestinales, 316, 331, 349 

Submucosa, Leishman-Donovan bodies in, 113 

Subtertian, see Malignant tertian 

Surra, 108 

Sutton, cited, 414 

Swift's microtome, 34-36 

Symphoromyia, 174 

Syphilitic lesions, spirochcvta found in, 112 

Syrphida (hover-flies), 175 

Tabanidce : 

Biting species of, 169 

Characters and subdivisions, 156, 168-172 

Diagnosed from Pangonina, 169 

Feeding time of, 153 

Order of, 161 

Sections of, 169 
Tabanus, 1 68, 169, 171 
Tachinidcr, 191 

Tallquist's haemoglobin scale, 428 
Taniorhynchus, 219, 221 
Tape-worms, see Cestodes 
Telosporidia, 105. 313 
Tetrads, 377 

Texas fever in cattle, 100 ; transmission of, 293 
Theobald : 

Cited, 202, 203, 204, 205, 206, 211 

Classification by, of ALdina #2.2.$ and note ; of Ctilicidce, 211; of 
219-220 

Diagrams after, 198, 200, 201 

Monograph of the Culicidcc by, cited, 226, note 

Mounting of mosquitoes, method, 227 

Subdivision of Anophelinie, by, 215 
Theobaldia, 220, 221 
Therioplectes, 169 
Thoma-Zeiss' hcemocytometer, 418; as substitute for micrometer slide, 13; 

pipettes of, for blood counts, 417 ; slide of, 415, 416 
Thysanoptera, 151 
Ticks, see Acarina 
Timothy grass bacillus, 387 

Tin in water, detection of, 407-408 ; Brucine test, 407 
Tinea imbricata, 400 

Tobacco smoke, mosquitoes killed by, 232 
Tanice, canine, 338 
Tania echinococcus, 332 
Tcenia saginata, 337 
Tanidee, 350 
Toisson's fluid, 144, 417 



INDEX 489 

Toluidin blue stain, for detection of protozoa, 71 
Travers and Watson, reports of, cited, 447 
Trematoda : 

Blood-vessels, in, 69 

Classification of, 337-339. 342-344, 35 

Human, 337-339 

Structure of, 339-341 

Tissues, in, 316 
Trichina spiralis, 331, 349-351 
Trichinella spiralis, 316, 317 
Trichinosis, blood changes in, 58 

Trichocephalus dispar (whip-worm), 346; eggs of, in foeces, 328, 331 
Trickopnsopotuiu6 t 211 
Trombididce, 287 
Tropical work : 

Evidence, precautions as to, in, 431 

Freezing in, 34 

Laboratory, tropical, description of, 1-5 

Post-mortem examinations in, 21-22; special observations, 22-24 

Statistics in, need for precautions as to, 429-431 
Trypanosomiasis, yellow pigment found in, 303 
Trypanosoma diniorphum and T, gambiense, 108 
T. lewisi, 273 

T. noctua, life-cycle of, 99-100 
T. theileri, 108 
Trypanosomes : 

Blood plasma, in, 69, 1 06 

Demonstration of, 109 

Mammalian, pathogenic action of, 107-109 

Multiplication of, no 

Recognition of, in decolourised films, 73-74 

Spirocfuzta, relationship to, Schaudinn's theory as to, 112-113 

Staining of, 109-110 

Structure of, 109-110 

Transmission of, no-ni 

Trypanosomiasis, leucocytic variation in, 57, 456 
Tsetse fly disease, trypanosoma of, 107-108 

Tubercle bacilli, human and other, 385 ; diagnosed from Lepra, 386 ; demon- 
stration of pathogenic properties of, 397-398 
Tuberculosis : 

Miliary, diazo-reaction of urine in, 362 

Post-malarial susceptibility to, 435 
Tunis, propagation of malaria in, 216 , 
Typhlopsylla, 279 
Typhoid fever : 

Agglutination test in, 396-397 

Bacillus of, in urine, 361 

Diazo-reaction of urine of, 362 

Leucocytic variation in, 57, 456 

32 



490 TXDKX 

ULCERS, spirocJurta found in, 1 12 
United States, Anopheles niaculipennis found in, 216 
Uranotanina, 224, note, 22$ ; larva 1 of, 261 
Urine : 

Bacteria in, 361 

Bile in, 359-360 

Blood in, 357 

Diazo-reaction of, 362-363 

Filaria nocturna in, 358 

Haematuria, causation of, 357-358 

Haemoglobinuric, 358-359 ; distinguished from bilious, 360 

Indican in, 360-361 

Methremoglobin in, 360 

Pancreatic reaction of, 363-364 

Spectroscopic characters of, 136 

Tropical diseases, of, 361-364 
Urobilin, 136 

VEGETABLE micro-organisms : 

Acid fast, 384 et set/., 402 

Capsulated, 380 

Chemical products of, 391-394 

Cultures of, 387-390 ; conditions affecting growth of, 390 

Description of, 375-376 

Differentiation by methods of staining, 382 et set/. 

Films, preparation and staining of, 376-377 

Flagellated, demonstration of, 380-382 

Media for cultivation of, 365-372 

Morphology, 377-378 

Motility, 378-379 

Pathogenic properties, testing of, 397 

Reaction with various blood sera, 394-397 

Separation and plating of, 372-375 

Spore formation, 379 
Verallina, 224 

Vertebrates, cold blooded, haemogregarina in, 102 
Vibrios, 377, 403 
Vincent, cited, 57 

Viper, nose-horned, parasite in lungs of, 299 
Visceral capillaries, sporulation of parasites in, 80 

WARD, H. B., table of canine tape-worms by, 337, 338 
Water : 

Analysis of, methods, 404-405 ; chemical analysis, 405-414 

Hardness of, estimation of total, 412-413 

Purity of, 413-414 

Supply of, in laboratory, 2-4 
Weil's disease, 359 



INDKX 491 

West Indies : 

Filarice occurring in, 129 

Mosquitoes of, 218 

Schistosoma found in, 357-358 

Screw-worm fly in, 186-187 
White blood corpuscles, see Leucocytes 
Whitelegge, cited, 414 
Wolf, parasites of the, 299 
Wright, J. H. : 

Hlood coagulation time, method of estimating, 135 

Cited, 146 

Modification of Leishman's stain, 62 

Tubes, for estimating tonicity of blood, 139; for obtaining and diluting 

serum, 141-144 
IVyeoinyia, 225 

YAWS, spiroch<cta found in, 112 
Yeasts, 377, 404 
Yellow fever : 

Fatty degeneration in, 308 

Mosquitoes the host of parasites of, 194, 250 

Prevalence of, 433 

Secretion of urine in, 359 

Stegomyia calopus, carried by, 223 

Yellow pigment of malaria and some other diseases, 303-304 ; blood destruc- 
tion evidenced by, 305 

ZAMBESI, filariasis on the, carrier of, 224 

Zenker's fluid, 28-29 

Ziehl-Neelson's method of differentiating micro-organisms, 383 et seq. 

Zinc in water, detection of, 407 

Zygotes, 90, 244-245 

Zygotoblasts, 74 

Zygotomeres, 74 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




from this 
Pocket. 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU, Boiton 



I 






o 

a 

.0 









10 



