iO 








IPrcsenteD to 

(Ibc Xibrar^ 

of tbc 

inniversit^ of Toronto 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2007 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/foodliygieneelemeOOtibbuoft 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



n'Ph>^ 



T 



FOOD AND HYGIEI^E 



AN ELEMENTARY TREATISE UPON 



Btctetics anb Ib^Qienic treatment 



WILLIAM TIBBLES, LL.D. 

L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A. 

MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC 
HEALTH, ETC. 




3^ 



^^ 




LONDON NEW YOEK 

EEBMAN LIMITED REBMAN COMPANY 

129 Shaftesbuky Avenue, W.C. 1123 BiioAnwAY 

1907 



Entered at Stationers* Hall 
All rights reserved 



PREFACE 

The Degeneration of the Eace has been much talked and written 
about in recent years. Undoubtedly one of the most important 
methods of building up the Race and of checking deterioration 
is by due attention to the Food of the people. Especially 
important is the food of infants and children. It needs no 
defence when one asserts that deterioration may begin in the 
cradle, and that the proper establishment of a sound constitution 
should be begun there. Of no less importance is the dietetic 
and hygienic treatment of all people whose health is broken 
down and whose constitution is undermined by disease. It 
behoves the medical practitioner, as well as the patient, to give 
quite as much attention to these points in the treatment of 
disease as to the choice and administration of drugs. 

In this volume an attempt is made to give an account of the 
most particular points in connection with food, air, and water, 
which are of interest to the patient or medical practitioner. The 
composition and character of the foods is given from many 
sources ; that of the medicinal waters and the particulars about 
climates chiefly from the official reports issued from the respec- 
tive health resorts. The introductory chapters give a resume of 
the proximate principles in food and their digestion and assimila- 
tion. The food required by healthy persons at various ages 
and under different circumstances is also considered. I have 



viii CONTENTS 

CHAPTEK VII 

PAGES 

The feeding of infants and children — The value of mothers' milk — 
Composition of human and other milks — Artificial human inilk 
— Sterilized milk — Food from birth to six months — From six to 
twelve months — One to two years — Feeding after infancy — 
Metabohsra — Results of improper feeding — Scurvy, rickets, and 
night terrors — Hospital dietaries - _ . . 56 — 76 

CHAPTER VIII 

The diet of healthy adults — Dailj' requirements — Dietaries — Food 
of soldiers, sailors, prisoners, hospitals — Calculation of quantities 
— Food for adults, mixed diet is the best — Food in relation to size, 
weight, and age — -Variety is necessary — Results of overfeeding — 
The time and nunaber of meals — Food in relation to occupation 
— Sodily labour, athletics, mental work — Food in relation to 
climate — Food in middle Hfeandold age — Advice on longevity 76-111 



PART II 

MATEMIA ALIMENT ARIA 

CHAPTER IX 

Meat: Beef— Mutton — Venison — Pork — Hare — Rabbit — Rat, etc. — 

General consideration — The composition and choice of meat 112 — 122 

CHAPTER X 

Birds and theu' eggs — Reptiles — Fishes and shellfish — Their classifica- 
tion, composition, and considerations of their value as food 122 — 136 

CHAPTER XI 

Soup, beef -tea, and jelly : Their composition and value — Recipes 
for making beef-tea, beef-essence, raw-meat juice, mutton and 
veal broth — The value of bones for making soup — Cows' heel and 
calf's foot jelly — Savoury pudding — Stock — Gelatine— Isinglass — 
Wine-jelly— Milk-jelly— Meat-jelly— Bread-jelly, etc. - 136—144 

CHAPTER XII 

Milk — Butter — Cheese — The composition of cows' milk— Characters 
of its constituents — Condensed milk — Composition of several 



CONTENTS ix 

I'.AOE.S 

brands — Powdered milk — Clotted cream — Koumiss — Butter-milk 
— Skimmed milk — Effects of heat on milk — Necessity for cooking 
it — -Sour milk — Diseases spread by milk — Invalid preparations — 
Junket, peptonized milk, and other foods — Butter and margarine 
— Their composition — Cheese : Soft and hard cheeses — Their 
composition — The changes produced in cheese by ripening — As a 
food -.-.---- 144—164 



CHAPTER XIII 

Vegetable foods : Their constituents and classification — Fruit and its 
value : Apples, pears, quince, plums, prunes, damsons, sloes, 
peaches, apricots, cherries, grapes, the grape-cu7-e, raisins, 
currants, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, bilberries, 
whortleberries, cranberries, mulberries, gooseberries, red and 
black currants, elderberries, barberries, rhubarb, oranges, lemons, 
citrons, lemon and lime juice, lemonade, tamarind, pomegranate, 
tomato, pineapple, papaw, melon, plantain, banana, bread-fruit, 
breadnuts, figs, dates, oljves, nuts, almonds, Brazil nuts - 164 — 192 

CHAPTER XIV 

Vegetables: Classification, composition and value — The cabbage 
family, spinach, asparagus, vegetable inarrow, pumpkin, squash, 
onions, leeks, garlic, salsafy, turnip, parsnip, carrot, beetroot, 
artichoke, Jerusalem artichoke, skirret, potato, green peas and 
kidney beans, dried peas, beans, and lentils, ground-nuts, mush- 
. rooms, trutttes, morel and other fungi — Salads and pickles : 
Cabbage, beetroot, celery, cardoon, endive, cresses, capers, dande- 
lion, sorrel, lettuce, cucumber, radish, samphire - - 192 — 211 

CHAPTER XV 

Condiments and spices, their composition and use : Mustard, horse- 
radish, pepper, Cayenne pepper, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, 
mace, ginger, curry powder, garlic — Sweet herbs : Mint, thyme, 
basil, marjoram, savory, sage, bay-leaf, carraway, aniseed, 
fennel, parsley, juniper — vinegar — Sugar : Cane-sugar, maple- 
sugar, beet-sugar — Confectionery : composition of peppermints, 
toffee, sugar candy, marzipan, and chocolate cream — The colour- 
ing of sweets, innocent and poisonous: Grape-sugar, Isevulose 
— Molasses : Sugar-cane molasses, golden syrup, beetroot 
molasses — Honey — Mead ----- 211 — 228 



X CONTENTS 

CHAPTEE XVJ 

The cereals and their substitutes : Composition and value — Wheat— 
Wheat flour — Bread — Aerated bread — Brown and wholemeal 
bread — Pastry — Cakes — Puddings — Macaroni — Vermicelli — 
Semolina — Eye and rye bread — Barley — Pearl-barley — Barley- 
water — Malt — Extract of Malt — Oats — Oatmeal — Millet — Durra 
— Maize — Eice — Sago — Tapioca — Arrowroot — Cassava — Manioc 
— Poi — Soya beans — Buckwheat — Yam — Sweet potato — 
Iceland moss ------- 229 — 249 

CHAPTEE XVII 

Stimulants and narcotics : Tea, composition, effects, and adultera- 
tion of — Tea cigarettes, tea substitutes — Coffee : Its composition, 
effects, and adulteration — Chicory — Mate or Paraguay tea — 
Guarana — Kola — Cocoa — Chocolate — Vanilla — Coca — Opium — 
Haschish or. Indian hemp — Betel — Ginseng — Tobacco: Its use 
and abuse — Alcohol : Fermentation, general remarks, habitual 
and specific use of alcohol, effects of tippling — Brandy — Wbiskj' 
— Eum — Gin — Absinthe, and other spirits — Fusel oil and furfurol 
— Liquors — Wine : Composition and value of varieties, artificial 
colouring and how to detect. — Malt liquors — Malting — Beers — 
Beer bitters — -Cider and perry— -Koumiss — Evils of drinking 
methylated spirits and ether - . . . 249 — o05 

CHAPTEE XVIII 

Water— Its necessity, qualities — Soft water— Hard water — Surface 
waters — Springs — Wells — Pollution and purification of waters — 
Diseases due to impure water — Baths — Natural mineral waters, 
their composition and properties : Table, alkaline, purgative, 
bitter, saline, brine, chalybeate, ferruginous, sulphurous, and 
thermal waters — Diseases cured by them - - - 306 — 343 

CHAPTEE XIX 

Air and climate — The composition of the air — Ventilation — The 
climatic treatment of disease — Effects of change of air — Of sea- 
side air — Of a sea voyage and of mountain air — Health resorts 
in Great Britain, France, the Eiviera, Italy, the Alps, Austria, 
the Tyrol, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, the Pyrennees, 
Islands of the Atlantic Ocean, North and South Africa, the West 
Indies,- America, Australia, iNew Zealand — Tropical climates — 
Life in the tropics, acclimatization, the clothing, exercise, food — 
Geographical distribution of animals, etc. - - - 344 — 423 



CONTENTS xi 

PART III 

FOOD AND HYGIENE IN SICKNESS 

CHAPTER XX 

Acute illness : The amount of food necessary, kinds most suitable — 
Convalescence : Food which is suitable or unsuitable — The fevers 
— The production and loss of heat — Immunity — The hygienic 
treatment : (a) Regulation of the heat of the body, (fe) removing 
the effects of fever — Diet — Rheumatic, enteric, and malarial 
fevers ---.... 424 — 449 

CHAPTER XXI 

Diseases of the stomach — Functional disorders— Acute and chronic 
indigestion — Hypochlorhydria — Hyperchlorhydria — Organic 
acidity — Diet : What to eat and avoid — Mineral waters — Atony 
and dilatation of the stomach — Dietetic and hygienic manage- 
ment — Lavage of the stomach — Gastric catarrh : Acute and 
chronic in infants, children, and adults — The effect of spices on 
the stomach — Mineral waters — Ulcer of the stomach — Cancer of 
the stomach — Their hygienic and dietetic treatment - 449 — 482 

CHAPTER XXII 

Diseases of the intestinal canal : Constipation, diarrhoea, d^'sentery, 
cholera, enteric catarrh, mucous and membranous (colitis, hill 
diarrhoea, sprue, and appendicitis — Their hygienic and dietetic 
treatment ----... 482 — 504 

CHAPTER XXIII 

Defects of metabolism — Urea and uric acid production and elimina- 
tion — The purin bodies— Auto-intoxication — Functional diseases 
of the liver — Acute and chronic congestion of liver — Manage- 
ment of liver troubles — Gall-stones — Obesity — Corpulency — Gout 
— Rheumatism — Lithaemia — Gravel — Oxaluria — Anaemia and 
chlorosis — Skin diseases - - . - . 504 — 565 

CHAPTER XXIV 

Diabetes — Gouty diabetes — Bright's disease : their hygienic and 

dietetic treatment - - .... 566 — 578 



xii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXV 

PAGES 

Bright's disease ------- 578-.597 

CHAPTER XXVI 

The prevention and treatment of tuberculosis — Climatic, sanatorium, 

and other treatment ------ 597 — 619 

CHAPTER XXVII 

Diseases of the heart — The senile heart — Arterial degenerations — 

Nauheim and other forms of hygienic treatment - - 620 — 630 

CHAPTER XVIII 

The nerves — Neurasthenia — Hysteria — Epilepsy — Apoplexy — Sun- 
stroke — Hypochondria and melancholia — Insomnia — Headache 
— Nervous irritability — The menopause - - - 631 — 652 

APPENDIX 

Standard dietaries — The fuel value of foods— Nutrients in food — The 

salt-free diet — The purin-free diet - - - - 653 — 664 

Index - - - - - - - - 665—672 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 

PART I 

CHAPTEE I 
INTRODUCTION 

Very few of our foods are now used in their natural condition ; 
they have been so much altered by art and cultivation that 
their appearance, properties, and qualities bear but little relation- 
ship to the stock from which they were derived. How great, for 
instance, has been the influence of the breeder upon our animal 
food ! By due selection of animals, by careful attention to feeding 
and other matters, an almost endless variety of cattle, sheep, 
pigs, rabbits, poultry and other birds, has been produced from 
their original stock. When we glance at the vegetable kingdom, 
we see even greater changes have taken place in the members 
thereof. The present varieties of wheat, oats, barley, rye, and 
rice, do not grow naturally, but have been developed by man 
from the original grasses to which they belong, by long application 
to the study of special kinds and by great industry through 
many centuries, to the present valuable and productive varieties. 
The potato, which provides food for millions of human beings, 
derives its origin from a small bitter root which grows wild in a 
few places in South America, as Chili and Monte Video. The 
common colewort, with its scanty leaves, weighing only a few 
ounces, has been artificially developed until it has become a 
cabbage whose leaves alone weigh several pounds, and its 
flower, which originally only weighed a few grains, into a cauli- 

1 



2 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

flower of as many pounds. In a similar manner the Apinm 
graveoleris, which in its wild state is acrid and unpleasant, has 
been transformed into the succulent and delicious celery. Peas, 
kidney-beans, onions, cucumbers, and many other vegetables, 
equally acknowledge the power of man to evolve transcendent 
qualities from simple forms by great care in selection and culti- 
vation. When we look over our list of fruit the same unremit- 
ting attention has led to similar results : veitness the transforma- 
tion of the wild crab of the woods into our juicy cooking and 
delicious dessert apples ; the conversion of the sour sloe into the 
soft and melting flesh of the plums. The same influence has 
been extended over the grapes, the pears, damsons, peaches, 
pine-apples, oranges, lemons, currants, until, from a compara- 
tively few simple forms growing wild in their native clime, an 
endless variety of fruit and vegetables has been produced, having 
the beautiful forms and perfect qualities now exhibited. 

Man is an omnivorous animal, and can live equally well on an 
animal or vegetable diet, or a mixture of both. Many savage 
tribes exist almost entirely upon fruit and roots. The natives of 
Hindustan feed chiefly on rice, fruit, vegetables, and milk ; the 
peasants of Lombardy and other districts largely on maize ; West 
Indian negroes fatten on sugar, those of Senegal on gum ; more 
civilized people live on a combination of animal and vegetable 
food ; while the Laplanders, the Esquimaux, and other inhabi- 
tants of the frigid zone, live entirely on the fat and flesh of seal 
and other animals and fish. 

Although man may subsist upon any variety of food, he cannot 
bear with impunity a sudden transition from one class to another. 
This has been exemplified again and again in times of scarcity, 
when only animal or vegetable food could be had. Animals of 
all kinds may be brought to live upon food exactly opposite to 
the natural aliment of their class, providing the change be gradu- 
ally induced : thus, pigeons have lived on flesh, horses on fish, 
eagles on bread. Man can derive his food from any division of 
the organic world independently of the character of the aliment, 
and, providing it contains the proximate principles called proteid, 
carbohydrate, and hydrocarbon, and enters the stomach suffi- 
ciently bruised and divided, it will be acted upon by the digestive 
ferments and the nutriment extracted. Every kind of food is 



INTEODUCTION 3 

assimilated and converted into flesh and blood, and yields heat 
and force for working the machinery of the body. 

Conditions of time and place undoubtedly influence the variety 
of food most suited to man's organization. It is true that man 
can derive his food equally well from the animal as the vegetable 
kingdom, from raw or cooked material ; that the ultimate efi'ect of 
all aliments appears to be the same ; and that foods differ only in 
the proportion of proximate principles which they contain. Never- 
theless, it is equally true and for man's benefit that the kind and 
amount of food to be taken is governed by the circumstances of 
climate, season, exercise, occupation, habits, age, and individual 
peculiarities. Thus, as fruit and vegetables abound in the hot 
central regions of the earth and are deficient in the rigorous 
northern or frigid zone, so are we taught by this natural distribu- 
tion that cooling fruit and non-stimulating vegetables are best 
adapted for the food of man in hot countries and in the summer 
season of temperate climates, and animal and other stimulating 
foods are better for us in the winter season, and always in the 
cold northerly climates of the globe. This natural suggestion is 
borne out by experience, for the inhabitants of hot countries — 
the Brahmins of India, the people of South America, of Africa, of 
the Canary Islands, of the other tropical inlands and the southern 
archipelago — live almost entirely on fruit, herbage, grain, roots 
and their produce ; while the Esquimaux gluts himself with the 
blubber of the seal and other animal food. The natives of the 
temperate regions are enabled to indulge in a much greater variety 
of food, both animal and vegetable, and are consequently endowed 
with greater bodily and mental powers ; indeed, a greater degree of 
bodily and mental activity, or laborious work, by an individual 
demands a more nutritious and stimulating diet, in which the 
superiority of animal food suggests a high place for it, which 
should not be overlooked in the adjustment of the proportions of 
animal and vegetable food. A sedentary occupation, on the other 
hand, necessitates less animal food ; indeed, such individuals 
become oppressed, languid, subject to diseases of the liver, gastric 
catarrh, headache, and many ailments associated with the pro- 
duction of uric acid and its allies, if they take an excess of animal 
food. With regard to place of residence, it is a well-known fact 
that people who live in large towns and crowded cities suffer in 

1—2 



4 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

their health if they do not consume a fair proportion of fresh 
vegetables and fruit. Scurvy, which was formerly an exceed- 
ingly common ailment and caused a heavy mortality, is now 
comparatively unknown, because all classes of people eat more 
fruit and fresh vegetables than they did a century ago. But, 
while vegetables are necessary for the maintenance of health, 
they entail a larger amount of work on the digestive organs, and 
they are much less stimulating than meat ; they are, indeed, 
when consumed alone, not sufficiently stimulating for the active 
exertions of the average individual of the temperate regions. 
On the other hand, an exclusive animal diet cannot safely be 
indulged in by the majority, for it is too highly stimulating, the 
springs of life are urged on too fast, and many diseases are a 
consequence of excessive animal food. 

Age likewise influences the nature of the food demanded to 
some extent. Young children and growing youths thrive well 
on a generous diet of animal food. The young of all animals 
live entirely on animal matter in their first stage ; even grain- 
eating birds live on the yolk of egg before they are hatched, and 
the young of mammalia are fed with the milk of their mother. 
So with children, animal matter in the form of milk is their 
natural food until they get their teeth ; and it should not be 
omitted afterwards, for the development of their body is rapid, 
and any excess of animal matter is consumed in this important 
work. In the prime of life a man works best on a mixed diet 
containing a due proportion of meat and vegetables ; but from 
middle life onwards, especially when active exertion becomes less 
and less a part of life's role, and as hard physical labour becomes 
a thing of the past, so should the food contain a comparatively 
smaller proportion of animal matter, until it arrives at the 
minimum which is necessary to sustain the vital processes, while 
the less stimulating carbohydrates are increased to a moderate 
extent to supply their place. 

Care is required that the food we take is in quantity and 
quality proportioned to the bodily necessity, for upon that hinges 
the enjoyment of our health and spirits. Moderation in eating 
and drinking is one of the surest means of preserving or regaining 
health. As a matter of fact, persons usually take more than the 
actual requirements of the body, and the pleasures of the table 



INTEODUCTION 5 

have been the means of bringing thousands to an untimely grave. 
It has been stated that more people die from excessive eating than 
from excessive drinking, and that the former excesses are more 
dangerous than the latter. It is true that excessive eating is as 
bad as excessive drinking, but not in the same way. It is equally 
true that very many people eat more food than they actually 
need ; that in many cases the food is not properly proportioned, 
v^hich thereby entails an undue amount of labour on the ali- 
mentary system and other portions of the economy to digest and 
dispose of it. On the other hand, moderation in eating and drink- 
ing is the surest way of preserving health and prolonging life to 
an advanced age. The persons who have been most remarkable 
for both have lived moderately, have taken their meals at long 
intervals, so as to give their digestive organs rest ; at the same 
time, they have been quite as remarkable for their moderation 
in other matters — -for their activity, equanimity of temper, and 
their regular mode of living. 

It is absolutely necessary that tlie food should be in a proiMr 
state for digestion, and that the secretions it encounters in the 
alimentary canal are in a healthy condition and duly provoked 
by the presence of food. A variety of food pleases the palate 
and promotes appetite and digestion ; but prolonged monotony 
of food, even of the best kinds, leads to satiety, to loss of appetite 
and relish and pleasure in it, and ultimately to loathing of such 
food, and consequent ill-health. A variety of food may therefore 
be considered absolutely necessary, just as much as good quality 
and the certainty of its containing a due proportion of the proxi- 
mate principles required in the working of the machinery. 

Excess of food, even if the digestive organs can convert it into 
absorbable and assimilable material, is in no way good for man. 
Excess usually leads to obesity and its attendant evils : excess of 
bread, starchy and sugary foods, produces acidity, flatulence, and 
indigestion ; excess of meat and other proteid materials causes 
an accumulation of uric acid and its allies in the system, and 
leads to many diseases, such as gravel, gout, chronic rheumatism, 
diseases of the liver and other organs. If an excess of any kind 
of food is taken for a prolonged period, the stomach will not be 
able always to cope with it ; putrefactive and other fermentative 
changes may take place in it, owing to the action of bacteria 



6 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

normally present in the alimentary canal, and thus give rise to 
indigestion and flatulence, vomiting and diarrhoea, or gastro- 
enteric catarrh, or to various bacterial by-products belonging to 
the ptomaines and leucomaines, which, when absorbed into the 
blood, will cause fever, headache, foetid breath, and disinclina- 
tion for the duties and pleasures of life. 

Deficiency of food can only be followed by evil results if it is 
long continued. Many are the wrecks of humanity caused by a 
period of semi-starvation, especially of proteid starvation, the 
result of having been compelled to live, as many poor but respect- 
able people have been, for a prolonged period upon ' bread and 
tea,' because of tlie deficiency of proteids in these foods. Defi- 
ciency of proteid material results in a wasting and degeneration of 
all muscular and nervous tissues ; and, even when it is ultimately 
sufficient, the individual does not always thoroughly recover, but 
is apt to remain neurotic and liable to many ailments. Continued 
deficiency in the amount of food causes loss of weight, anasmia, 
gastric disturbance, fever, debility, prostration, and ultimately 
death, unless relief is obtained. ' Fasting people ' are very often 
frauds : they are fed by someone in collusion with them, espe- 
cially when it is practised for gain or to attract sympathy ; a 
similar remark applies to persons who are kept in a hypnotic 
trance for prolonged periods. But a person may live in a state 
of rest for five or six weeks without any food, providing plenty of 
water can be obtained ; of course, anaemia, debility, and prostra- 
tion will increase in proportion to its duration, and the final 
stages are similar to the ' typhoid state ' which attends various 
illnesses of an asthenic character. Absence of either flesh-forming 
food alone or force-producing food alone can be borne for con- 
siderable periods, as in the case of proteid starvation. Thus, 
absence of meat from the diet is borne by many people for pro- 
longed periods, because bread, the customary diet of the poor 
who are unable to obtain meat, contains 8 j)er cent, of proteid ; 
likewise a deprivation of bread and other force-producing foods 
can be borne for prolonged periods, providing the person is well 
nourished at the commencement of the period or a plentiful share 
of fat exists in the meat diet. 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 7 

CHAPTEE II 
THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

Man is an omnivorous animal, deriving his food from both the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms. Every quarter of the globe 
contributes its portion to the food of civilized man. 

The elements which enter into the composition of the human 
body are precisely the same as those which compose the structure 
of the lower animals and the members of the vegetable kingdom. 
Like all other animals, human beings are unable to assimilate 
these elements in their inorganic condition — i.e., they are unable 
to deal with the raw material ; on the contrary, the principal 
elements required by them must be organized before they are of 
any use in their economy. For this reason a very important part 
of our food is derived from the animal kingdom ; the animals 
derive their component elements from the vegetables which they 
consume ; and the vegetables, in turn, derive them at first hand 
from the native sources in the earth, air, or water. This is 
necessarily so ; such raw material as nitrogen cannot be assimi 
lated by animals, but they must obtain this very important and 
indispensable element of life through the vegetable kingdom, 
either directly or indirectly ; there is no other possible way to 
obtain it in a form adapted for their use. We are, therefore, 
ultimately thrown back upon the vegetable kingdom for our supply 
of nitrogen, without which life in any form is unknown to 
science. 

The human system is composed of fifteen elements, the most 
important of which are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, 
which enter into the formation of nearly every structure in the 
body, and are estimated to form 7.'^ of the weight of the body. 
Some of the other elements are almost of equal importance, 
although a far less quantity of them is required : as phosphorus, 
for the brain, nerves, and bones ; sulphur, for the hair, nails, and 
bile; iron, which gives the rich colour to the blood and secures, 
in loose combination with that fluid, the oxygen which is so 
necessary for the well-being of every tissue and so essential for 
the production of heat and energy in the body ; sodium and 



8 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

potassium exist in moderate amomit in all the fluids ; and calcium, 
magnesium, manganese, silicon, and fluorine, are combined with 
the other elements to give firmness and solidity to the bones and 
general framework. 

The proportion of some of these elements in the body and 
required for daily use is fairly definite. Experiments have shown 
that the amount of carbonic acid gas exhaled daily from the 
body is equivalent to 5,000 grains of carbon, a solid mass of 
charcoal weighing 10 ounces. The amount of this element which 
is used up in vital and mechanical processes has to be replaced 
by food containing it ; but there is no difficulty to supply it, 
because it exists in a greater or less proportion in food of all 
kinds : butter, fat meat, and oil contain more than half their 
weight of carbon ; sugar, bread, starch, rice, and similar articles, 
rather less than half ; and raw meat, game, fish, about one- 
seventh their weight of it. These are called hydrocarbon and 
carbohydrate materials, and are the medium through which 
carbon is obtained in a form suitable for human needs. Neither 
man nor animals can make use of charcoal or carbon in an 
unorganized state, and carbonic acid is a poison to them ; carbon 
must therefore be taken in the form of a carbohydrate or hydro- 
carbon, which is the result of previous life in plants or animals. 
All animals derive it from plants, which alone have the power of 
taking up carbonic acid gas from the air and utilizing the carbon 
for the growth of their tissues and manufacture of their juices 
and nutritive compounds. 

The amount of nitrogen required daily by human beings varies 
under certain circumstances, but it averages 300 grains for an 
adult. Our mechanism undergoes an unceasing change, owing 
to the wear and repair of the structures which consist mainly of 
nitrogenous elements ; so persistently is this change going on 
that no part of the body remains the same after six or seven 
years, and the materials for the growth and repair of the tissues 
are derived from the proteids or flesh-forming principles in the 
food. All animals derive their nitrogen ultimately from plants, 
and the plants in turn obtain it from the soil, partly from 
ammonia and its salts, partly from nitrates and nitrites, and a 
little from the air. 

The average daily loss of water through the lungs, skin, and 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 9 

kidneys amounts to 80 ounces (4 pints) ; to make this loss good 
some portion of it is taken in the food we eat, and the remainder 
is usually consumed in various kinds of drink. Water forms 
about 58-5 per cent, of the entire weight of the body, and is 
therefore an exceedingly important constituent thereof. It is 
composed of hydrogen and oxygen, and is a principal means of 
introducing these elements into the system. It is the basis of 
all ordinary fluids, and its supply is derived from many sources, 
as plain water, mineral and aerated water, and through the 
medium of tea, coffee, milk, alcoholic beverages, and unfermented 
drinks. Some of the water which is excreted from the body is 
manufactured therein by various chemical processes, but chiefly 
in consequence of changes which take place in the structure of 
the body and in the food which is supplied to it ; these changes 
are of a destructive character, and during their progress the 
proximate principles of the body and its food are reduced from 
high planes of chemical composition to lower and still lower 
grades, until they are finally reduced to carbonic acid, urea, and 
water. Hydrogen is derived by the body not only from the 
liquids we drink, but from all our solid food. 

Oxygen is an element in the watei" we drink and the atmo- 
sphere we breathe, and is as essential for all our processes as 
nitrogen. An adult requires about 7,000 grains, or 15 ounces, 
daily ; most of it is derived from the surrounding air, and the 
purity of the atmosphere largely influences our bodily activity 
and state of health. 

The whole of the iron ih the body only amounts to 46 grains, 
but it is a very important ingredient. The phosphorus required 
for the nerves and bones is also small in amount. Amongst 
other important inorganic substances in the body are potassium 
chloride, sodium chloride, phosphate and carbonate, and calcium 
carbonate and phosphate. 

The elements which compose the living substance of the 
human body are arranged in more or less complex groups, which 
have an affinity for each other and bear a certain relation- 
ship. Even the non-living elements are chemically combined 
into groups, among which are some familiar forms, as water, 
sugar, starch, and common salt. Nitrogen is found in the body 
in substances composing our muscles, blood, nervous and con- 



10 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

nective tissues ; and the substances which contain it corre- 
spond with similar materials contained in our food. Carbon 
and hydrogen, which likewise exist in every living structure, 
are also found in similar combinations outside the human body, 
in substances which, when taken as food, produce energy — 
e.g., glycogen, inosite, dextrose in liver, blood, and muscle, and 
in the form of fat and oil in animal and vegetable substances. 
This similarity in the grouping of elements in the body and the 
food has led to a classification of all substances which bear a 
like character, chemical relationship, or physiological use. A 
due consideration of these substances is a portion of chemistry 
and physics ; for it is by the light of these sciences that we may 
learn the true composition and value of the foods required, that 
we may know which contain the proximate organic principles of 
like character and composition as those composing man's complex 
structure, and which will replace his worn-out tissues and provide 
his mechanism with energy for work and heat for warmth. 

Foods are grouped together into the following four classes, 
according to their chemical composition and relationship and 
other characters which they possess : 

I. PROTEID OR NITROGENOUS FOODS.— They are tissue- 
formers and force-producers ; their main use is to maintain the 
structure of the body in good repair, but heat and energy are 
produced by changes which they undergo in chemical composi- 
tion. Foods of this class are lean meat, flesh of birds, fish, eggs, 
milk, cheese ; beef-tea, jelly ; gluten of bread, beans, lentils, pea- 
flour, etc. This class of materials consist of carbon, hydrogen, 
nitrogen, oxygen, and sometimes sulphur or phosphorus. They are 
exceedingly complex in their nature and composition, and consist 
of the substances called proteids, which are mingled in various 
proportions, some in one kind of food, others in another kind. 
Aliments of this description are the only source of nitrogen for 
animals, because neither man nor animals can assimilate un- 
organized nitrogen or make use of it in their economy ; they 
must obtain it from vegetables, or from animals which have lived 
upon vegetables. The chief proteids are : 

1. Albumin ok Albuminates. — {n) Albumins, such as egg- 
albumin, lact-albumin, and serum-albumin, are soluble in pure 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 11 

water, are coagulated by heat aud strong mineral acids ; but they 
are not precipitated by alkalies, common salt, or very dilute acids, 

(b) Globulins, such as vitellin in yolk of egg, myosin or muscle- 
albumin, fibrinogen and paraglobulin in blood. These are in- 
soluble in pure water ; but they are coagulated by heat, and 
they dissolve in a dilute solution of common salt ; in dilute acids, 
which convert them into acid-albumin ; also in solutions of alkalies, 
which convert them into alkali albumin. 

(f) Derived albumin, which is not affected by heat — e.g., casein 
in milk, also acid-albumin and alkali-albumin. They are in- 
soluble in water and solutions of neutral salts, but are very 
soluble in dilute acids and alkalies. 

(d) Fibrin, which is insoluble in water and weak solution of 
common salt ; also gluten and several other insoluble proteids 
belonging to animals and plants. 

Albumin, using the generic name, is widely distributed in 
animal foods of every description ; it is met with in large 
quantity in muscle, liver, kidney, sweet -bread, brain, nerve 
tissues, and in the blood and lymph which form the normal 
juices of the same. Thus, white of egg contains 12;^, per cent, 
of al])umin ; the yolk has 3 per cent, of albumin, and 14 per cent, 
of casein ; and raw lean beef contains 22 per cent, of albumin, of 
w'hich 17 parts are digestible. 

The vegetable proteids consist chiefly of albuminates, such as 
gluten in wheat ; the vegetable casein or legumin in leguminous 
seeds, such as peas and beans ; and vegetable albumin and 
globulin occur in the juices and seeds of many plants. Aleuron, 
which forms an important part of the nutriment in peas and 
beans and in other seeds and plants, is a mixture in the form of 
irregular grains composed of albumins and globulins. 

Peptones and albumoses are proteids which have undergone 
chemical changes; they exist in germinating and other seeds; they 
are formed by the action of enzymes on other proteids, as in their 
digestion in the alimentary canal. They are soluble in pure water, 
but are not coagulated by heat, nor precipitated by acids, alkalies, 
or common salt, but are precipitated by nitric and tannic acids. 

2. Albuminoids. — These substances occur in most animal and 
vegetable tissues, and are closely allied to the proteids, from 
which they are derived ; the principal are : 



12 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Mucin, which is widely distributed as the cement substance of 
cells, and the ground-work of connective tissue. Nuclein, which 
is a substance similar to mucin, but contains abundance of phos- 
phorus, and is found in all cells, and in milk and the yolk of egg. 
Lecithin also occurs in eggs and all nervous and other cellular 
tissues. Nuclein and lecithin are the forms of organized phos- 
phorus in moat animal substances. Nucleo-albumins, which are 
also abundant in cell protoplasm, are compounds of nuclein and 
globulin. Plastin, cerebrin, colloid, and the amides — leucin, 
tyrosin, and asparagin— belong to this group of albuminoids ; 
also elastin, a substance in all elastic tissues ; keratin, in the 
nails and other horny and epidermal tissues ; chitin, spongin, 
and silk, which take the place of keratin in the invertebrates, are, 
like elastin and keratin, devoid of sulphur. The chlorophyll of 
plants is a nitrogenous substance. Gelatine closely resembles 
proteid, but differs from albumin in containing more nitrogen but 
less carbon and sulphur ; some authorities say that it contains 
no sulphur. Chrondrin, which is closely allied to it, is a substance 
in all cartilages ; like the former, it is dissolved out by boiling, 
and sets in a jelly on cooling. Gelatinous substances are con- 
tained in many animal tissues, as bone, tendon, ligament, 
connective, mucous, and dermal tissues, in the form of collagen. 
When these substances are boiled, they yield gelatine, which 
solidifies on cooling. Glue is impure gelatine. Isinglass is the 
purest gelatine, and is obtained from the swim-bladder of the 
sturgeon. A watery solution of gelatine is not coagulated by heat 
or mineral acids, but is precipitated by alcohol, tannic acid, and 
corrosive sublimate. It is converted by digestion into gelatine- 
peptone. Chrondrin differs from it in being precipitated by alum 
and vegetable acids. 

The proteids are exceedingly complex nitrogenous bodies, 
which are essential to the existence of all living organisms. 
Taking albumin as the type, their composition may be repre- 
sented by the following percentage of elements : 

C51-5 to 54-5 ; H6-9 to 7-5 ; Ni5-2 to 17 ; O20-9 to 23-5 ; 
SO-3 to 2. 

Their use in the animal economy is to assist in the manufacture 
of new tissues, to repair those worn out by wear and tear, and to 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 13 

produce heat and energy by their chemical changes. They also 
add to the store of fat in the body, when more is consumed than 
is required for current expenditure. They undergo many changes 
in their constitution, and their ultimate destination is to be 
eliminated from the body in the form of urea, uric acid, carbonic 
acid, and water. They do not directly arrive at this low grade of 
composition, but pass through several intermediate stages. Some 
of these intermediate products are always in animal substances : 
such are creatin, creatinin, xanthin, hypoxanthin, sarcosin, 
sarcolactic acid, taurin, tyrosin, leucin, indol, skatol. These 
substances never enter, like the proteids from which they are 
derived, into the formation of animal tissues, but are the products 
of the disintegration of such tissues, and are called extractives ; 
they enter largely into the composition of meat essences, beef-tea, 
gravy, broth, and similar articles of diet, and the flavour and 
odour of many kinds of animal food is due to their presence. 

II. CARBOHYDRATES.— The carbohydrates are the great 
reserve of non-nitrogenous material in animals and plants ; 
consequently, they form a large proportion of human food. Their 
use in the economy is to keep up the temperature of the body, 
and to supply the energy required for vital and muscular action ; 
when consumed in excess of the bodily requirements, they form 
fat, and, especially in the young, materially assist in growth and 
development. There are three classes : 



(a) Amyloses : QjH^qOj 



( Starch. 

Inulin. 

Cellulose. 

Dextrin. 
V Glycogen. 



/7\ o o u r Cane-sugar or sucrose. 

(6) bucroses or Saccha- -^r li. ii 

^ ^ n TT n ^ Malt-sugar or maltose, 

roses : ^^igU-aa'-'n [ Milk-sugar or lactose. 

f Grape-sugar or dextrose. 

, \ r^i r\ TT r\ Invert-sugar or levulose. 

(c) Glucoses: C<,HtoO,, - i\,r i ■ •<- 

^ ' b 12 b Muscle-sugar or mosite. 

[ Galactose. 

The carbohydrates are therefore another important class of sub- 
stances; they form a large proportion of bread, potato, rice, sago, 
cornflour, arrowroot, oatmeal, sugar, fruit, and other kinds of 



14 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

food. They are all closely related, and are chemically derivable 
(except inosite) from the normal alcohol, mannite (CgH^^O,;). 
Mannite occurs in celery, onions, asparagus, fungi, in the gummy 
substances which exude from apple, pear, plum, and other trees, 
and is especially abundant in manna, which is formed from the 
juice of the ash {Fraxinuii excelsior), which is exported as an 
article of commerce from Sicily, and used as a mild aperient. 

Starch and cellulose are the most common carbohydrates. 
Starch consists of small granules, varying in size and shape in 
different vegetables, and is especially abundant in the roots 
and rhizomes of perennial plants, tubers, potatoes, seeds, grain, 
and legumes. 

Inulin exists in solution in the cell-sap of many plants of the 
Compositae and allied orders — in chicory, the tubers of dahlias, etc. 

Cellulose forms the membranous walls of vegetable cells, and 
encloses the protoplasm, juices, and other contents. Gum and 
mucilage, which also belong to this group, are the secretion of 
vegetable glands. 

Dextrin occurs in many vegetables through the action of an 
enzyme or ferment upon starch ; the latter is also converted by 
the enzyme, diastase, into sugar. 

Glycogen is a carbohydrate stored up in the liver and other 
tissues of animals ; it is comparatively inditfusible, and is con- 
verted into dextrose for use in the body. 

Inosite, a glucose, is one of the carbohydrates in the muscles of 
animals. 

Cane-sugar or sucrose occurs in many plants ; it is the sweeten- 
ing substance which is usually sold as ' sugar,' and is largely 
derived from the sugar-cane, beetroot, maple-tree, and other 
members of the vegetable kingdom. It is convertible into 
dextrose and levulose. 

Malt-sugar or maltose is a product of the action of enzymes, 
like that of diastase on starch ; it occurs during the manufacture 
of malt from barley and other cereals, and during the digestion of 
foods containing starch. 

Lactose is the sugar in milk, ' milk-sugar.' During digestion 
lactose is converted into galactose, which is classified with 
glucoses. 

Grape-sugar (dextrose or glucose) occurs in very many vegetables 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 15 

and in fruit. Grapes contain from 10 to 25 per cent. ; dried figs, 
60 to 70 ; cherries, 11 ; mulberries, 9 ; currants, 6 ; whortle- 
berries, 6 ; and raspberries, 4. 

Invert-sugar is an uncrystallizable sugar occurring in vegetables 
and fruits — e.g., plums, peaches, gooseberries, and many others 
— in conjunction with dextrose. 

Fruit-sugar consists mainly of dextrose, and in some kinds — 
e.g., dried raisins and prunes — it becomes gradually dried into a 
crystalline mass ; but in others the dextrose is converted by 
means of an enzyme into uncrystallizable invert-sugar or 
levulose. 

Molasses or treacle is a product in the manufacture of domestic 
sugar, partly the result of the application of too much heat 
during concentration of the syrup ; it is a mixture of cane-sugar 
and levulose. 

III. HYDROCARBONS.— This group consists of substances of 
an extremely varied nature ; they contain no nitrogen, scarcely 
any oxygen, and consist mainly of carbon and hydrogen so 
combined that they readily undergo oxidation, during which 
they give out a considerable amount of heat. It is the property 
of ready union with oxygen and consequent development of heat 
which renders them so exceedingly valuable as fuel for the animal 
economy. Hydrocarbons form the bulk of fat meat, butter, suet, 
oils, and other fatty substances. But other materials in our food 
also l)elong to this group — c.(/. ; 

Alcohol, ethylic alcohol {C^,Hr,[OH]), which occurs in small 
quantities in muscle and other organic substances, but is mainly 
the product of fermentation. 

Amylic alcohol, also called fusel oil, is a common accompaniment 
of the above, when the sugar used for fermentation is derived from 
starch. Sugar of potato starch yields a large quantity, and it is 
commonly present in some kinds of whisky. 

Allylic alcohol, under which heading is aliyl-sulphocyanate, 
the chief constituent of oil of mustard and horse-radish. 

Some of the hydrocarbons are most delicate substances, such 
as the fruit essences and flavours, which are ethers ; the volatile 
oils, which give odour, flavour, and pungency to many plants, 
flowers, and seeds, belong to the terpene series ; resins are 
oxidized products of the same series. 



16 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Fatty "bodies exist in many cells of animals and plants, especially 
in animal fat, some vegetable seeds, and fruit. The most common 
are palmitin, olein, and stearin; and the most common fatty acids 
are palmitic, oleic, stearic, butyric, caproic, caprylic, rutic, and 
valeric ; but there are others, and fat is formed by their union with 
glycerine. Glycerine (C3H.[OH3]) is a trivalent alcohol, which is 
a product of the digestion of fat, and a by-product in the manu- 
facture of soap. Fat is formed by a fatty-acid radical replacing 
the three hydroxyls in glycerine, thus : C3H-(Cj-H3jCOO) = 
Palmitin. Stearin is abundant in hard fat ; it is a stearoptene 
solid at ordinary temperatures. Olein exists abundantly in olive 
and other vegetable and animal oils ; it melts at a lower tempera- 
ture than either palmitin or stearin. A combination of these 
three substances forms the fat of animal tissues ; and the olein 
and stearin are in such a proportion that the fat remains fluid at 
the temperature of the human body. 

IV. INORGANIC SUBSTANCES.— The most important are 
water, oxygen, and salts. 

The salts which we take in our food are numerous and of 
undoubted value ; they form a considerable portion of the solid 
framework of the body, are necessary for all our secretions, and 
aid in the general metabolism. Carbonates are very common in 
nature ; the carbonates of soda, potash, iron, and other minerals, 
render our blood and secretions alkaline, and assist in the diges- 
tion and elaboration of the food. Carbon is a substance widely 
distributed throughout the organic kingdom — everything which 
has life contains it ; it is therefore a very important constituent 
of our food. Carbonic acid gas is one of the most important 
products of the disintegration of our tissues, and more than a 
very small proportion circulating in our blood and tissues is 
poisonous ; its removal, therefore, becomes a matter of prime 
importance, and that is largely performed by the aid of alkaline 
carbonates, which take up the excess of carbonic acid from the 
blood and surrender it to the air in the lungs. The phosphates of 
lime, soda, potash, and magnesia, form a large part of the mineral 
substance of bone and other tissues and the secretions; and 
organic compounds of phosphorus enter into the composition of 
brain, nerves, muscle, blood, and the nuclei of other cells. 
Phosphates are in all our food, animals obtaining them chiefly 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 17 

from the vegetables upon which they feed, and vegetables from 
the soil on which they grow. Sulphates and other compounds of 
sulphur are also found in variable quantity in nearly all living 
substances, and are of importance to mankind ; we derive our 
sulphur largely from the sulphates of soda, potash, lime, magnesia, 
and manganese. Chlorine, especially as chloride of soda and 
potash, is required for all human structures and secretions ; it 
occurs in very many of our foods. The human necessity for 
common salt, chloride of sodium, seems great ; it easily enters 
the system and quite as easily leaves it ; this necessity sometimes 
appears to be urgent, and wild or barbarous people have often 
had struggles to obtain it, in consequence of which the tax put 
upon salt in some countries is always a productive one. The 
minerals in combination with chlorine, carbonic, sulphuric, and 
phosphoric acids, are soda, potash, iron, lime, magnesia, manga- 
nese, silica, and fluorine ; and the total daily requirement of their 
salts is 360 grains. 

Vegetable salts — formed by a combination of soda, potash, 
lime, and other substances with organic acids, acetic, citric, 
malic, tartaric, oxalic — are taken in most of our vegetable foods. 
Citrates, for instance, in the juices of the lemon, lime, gooseberry, 
strawberry, currant, cherry, and many other fruits and plants ; 
acetates also occur in certain vegetable juices, and in minute 
quantities in some animal fluids ; malates in apples, gooseberries, 
strawberries, and grapes, as a compound of malic acid and malate 
of potash ; oxalates in rhubarb, tomatoes, sorrel, spinach, beet, 
celery, plums, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, black tea, 
and pepper ; and tartrates and tartaric acid occur in the juice of 
many plants and fruits, and are especially abundant in grapes as 
cream of tartar. The organic salts consumed with the food are 
mostly transformed into alkaline carbonates in their course 
through the system, and usefully increase the alkalinity of the 
blood and secretions. 

Refekexces : Gamgee's ' Physiological Chemistry ' ; Watts' ' Dictionary 
of Chemistry'; Vine's 'Botany'; Atttield's 'Chemistry'; Halliburton's 
' Physiology ' ; Power's ' Human Physiology ' ; Roscoe and Schlorlemmer's 
' Chemistry. ' 



18 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

CHAPTEE III 
THE ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 

The elements of which the body is composed are derived from 
our food by the processes of digestion and assimilation. Assimila- 
tion is the power which every living being possesses of taking 
foreign materials into its interior, and converting them into its 
own substance. By assimilation are made good those losses 
which arise from work and exercise ; from the incessant activity 
of our brain, heart, and lungs ; from the wear and tear of our 
organs ; from the supply of heat and energy ; from growth and 
reproduction of our species — all of which are common evidences 
of life. A brief outline will give some idea of the method of 
digestion and assimilation of the substances comprising an 
ordinary meal. 

In its course through the alimentary canal the food is submitted 
to the action of various digestive secretions, which are fluids of a 
chemical character, and contain substances known as enzymes, 
or ' ferments.' The ferments require the presence of other 
ingredients in the fluid to aid them in their work, and each acts 
only on food belonging to a particular group or class ; thus, one 
converts starch into sugar, another meat into peptone. The 
' ferments ' entirely change the character of our food, converting 
them from an insoluble colloidal material, which is incapable of 
being passed through the coats of the stomach and intestine, into 
soluble and crystallizable substances, which readily pass through 
and are absorbed. These fermentative and chemical actions 
are by no means simple. When we say that starch is converted 
into sugar and meat into peptone, we are not indicating a simple 
and direct process. On the contrary, our food passes through 
most intricate changes in its chemical composition before it 
arrives at the final condition which fits it for use in the economy. 
These changes can be watched outside the body by experiments 
which are extremely interesting. 

Our food is, or should be, slowly bruised, finely divided, and 
reduced to a pulp by the teeth. During mastication it is moistened 
and mixed with the saliva, which assists in the process, and 



THE ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 19 

administers to the sense of taste and the pleasure of eating. The 
quantity of saliva secreted is in proportion to the dryness of the 
food and thoroughness of mastication ; by it the saline and 
saccharine constituents are dissolved. The most important change 
effected by the saliva is the conversion of the starch of the food. 
This it does by virtue of a diastatic ferment or enzyme called 
ptyalin, of which it contains 2J per cent., together with | per 
cent, of sulphocyanate of potash. The starch is liquefied, and 
passes through various stages until it becomes maltose, a small 
quantity of dextrose also being produced. The bolus of food, 
having been thoroughly moistened and lubricated by the saliva, 
passes down the oesophagus into the stomach, where the diastatic 
action of the ptyalin continues for some time longer, until, in fact, 
it is destroyed by the action of the gastric juice. 

The presence of food in the stomach stimulates the secretion of 
gastric juice, and causes the coats of this muscular receptacle to 
contract intermittently. The gastric juice is a fluid secretion con- 
taining 3 parts of pepsin and 2 parts of hydrochloric acid per 1,000, 
besides rennin and minute quantities of less important substances. 
The digestion of the proteid materials of the meal begins in the 
stomach ; the pepsin, acting in an acid fluid, converts all kinds of 
albumin from being insoluble colloidal substances into soluble 
and crystallizable substances, which are readily absorbed into 
the blood. The conversion is first to acid-albumin, then hemi- 
albumin and pro-peptone, and finally peptone. As digestion 
proceeds the peptone is absorbed, and fresh pepsin and acid are 
secreted. Peptone passes through the coats of the stomach into 
the capillary bloodvessels of the same ; these, uniting to form larger 
and larger branches, join with other tributaries of the portal vein, 
through which it reaches the liver. But peptone is not normally 
found in the blood, even in that of the portal vein, and the final 
changes still remain little understood, although it is presumed 
that peptone is concerted into serum-albumin in its passage 
through the coats of the stomach and bowels, and only exists in 
the body under proper conditions as albuminates. 

During digestion meat is quickly broken into fragments by the 
dissolution of its fibres, and is converted into peptone in about three 
hours. Mutton is more digestible than beef, while veal and pork 
digest slowly ; lean meat digests quicker than fat, and the tiesh 

9 0. 



20 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of young animals than that of old ones. Cooking softens most 
tissues and favours their digestion. Fibrous tissues, tendon and 
cartilage, are slowly digested in proportion to their firmness. 
Eggs and fish of the lighter kinds are digested in about an hour 
and a half ; milk is quickly digested, being immediately coagu- 
lated by the rennin ferment, and its curd peptonized and absorbed. 
The gluten of bread and aleuron of peas and beans are also 
dissolved and peptonized. Starch is not acted upon by the 
gastric juice, but any dextrin v^hich has been produced by the 
action of ptyalin upon it is now converted into dextrose and 
absorbed ; cane-sugar is also converted into dextrose. The gastric 
juice, however, has no influence upon fats and oils, excepting 
that it dissolves the albuminous coverings of the cells, and thereby 
liberates the oil. 

The digestion of an ordinary full meal occupies from four to 
five hours ; but certain conditions interfere with this process. 
Thus, if an excess of food be taken it will only be imperfectly 
digested, and the products may set up irritation all along the 
alimentary canal. The presence of indigestible or unwholesome 
food causes an excessively acid secretion and consequent gastric 
derangement. Eaw fruit, such as apples, candied-peel, nuts, 
raw turnip, carrot, and cheese, can only be eaten with impunity 
when plenty of exercise is taken ; indeed, they are a frequent 
source of gastric troubles. Excess of sugar causes a secretion of 
much mucus, which acts injuriously by surrounding the particles 
of food, and thereby preventing the proper access of gastric juice 
to them, and likewise hinders the absorption of such food as is 
digested. Exercise during digestion, especially soon after a meal, 
will interfere with the process by withdrawing to the brain or 
muscles a portion of the blood which should be engaged in 
supplying the materials required for the digestive process ; for this 
reason a proper period of rest is advisable, especially after a heavy 
meal. Fluids, such as water, beer, coffee, tea, are normally 
absorbed in a few minutes, or half an hour at the most, and by 
their removal they permit of the better mixture of the more solid 
portions of the food with the gastric juice. The presence of an 
excess of liquids, either taken with the meal or by drinking 
between the meals, has the effect of materially delaying the process 
of digestion. 



THE ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 21 

All the food which is taken into the stomach does not pass 
through its coats into the circulation, but a considerable portion 
goes through the pyloric aperture of the stomach into the small 
intestine, where it is subjected to the influence of other ferments 
which are quite as active as those of the mouth and stomach. 
The semi-digested food which passes through the pylorus into the 
intestines is called chyme. It is a thin, creamy fluid, consisting 
of (a) the products of digestion up to the pylorus — viz., peptone, 
dextrose, levulose, and gelatine-peptone ; (b) all matters which 
have been only partially digested by the salivary and gastric 
secretions, in a state of fine subdivision, as starch, partly digested 
meat, some forms of albumin, connective and elastic tissues ; 
{(■) substances unchanged by saliva or gastric juice, as fat, cellu- 
lose, and other vegetable matters ; (d) fluids not previously 
absorbed. Tbe really insoluble or indigestible residue of the 
food remains some time longer in the stomach, but is ultimately 
propelled through the relaxed pylorus. 

When the chyme reaches the small intestines it is subjected to 
the influence of digestive ferments contained in the pancreatic 
fluid, the succus enterieus, and the bile. The bile, secreted by the 
cells of the liver, is a fluid which passes into the intestines through 
the common duct of the liver and pancreas ; it contains peculiar 
salts which assist in the absorption of fat, and it precipitates the 
proteids of the chyme, and thereby prepares them for the action 
of the pancreatic fluid, but it has little or no influence upon sugar 
or starch. Bile acts upon the fat of butter, cream, oil, meat, fish, 
by converting it into an emulsion, or very fine particles ; and 
some portion of such fat is split up into glycerine and fatty acid, 
and the latter, combining with the alkaline salts of the bile and 
pancreatic fluid, becomes saijonified or forms various kinds of 
soap, which readily pass into the lacteals and bloodvessels of the 
intestines, and finally reach the general circulation. The emul- 
sified fat is also absorbed by the lacteals, and reaches the blood 
through the lymphatic vessels. The liver has other functions 
besides the secretion of bile : it is a reservoir of glycogen or 
carbohydrate material ; it also produces urea and haemoglobin, 
destroys blood cells which are worn out, and performs other 
functions which are less understood. 

The mixing of the acid chyme with the bile in the intestines 



22 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

causfes a precipitation of the proteids contained in it, which, 
however, are again dissolved by the secretion of the pancreas. 
The pancreatic juice is the secretion of the pancreas or sweet- 
bread, and reaches the bowel through the channel common to 
this organ and the liver. It contains several powerful enzymes 
or ferments — viz., trypsin, which converts proteids into peptone 
through several stages ; amylopsin, which transforms starch into 
sugar ; and steapsin, which saponifies fat and oil. Another 
secretion, called the succus entericus, from the glands in the 
coats of the intestines, also mingles with and assists in the 
digestion of the same constituents of the food, but in a lesser 
degree. The pancreatic fluid may be said to finish or complete 
the digestive process. Whatever starch is not converted into 
sugar by the salivary ferment, or albumin converted into peptone 
by pepsin, or fat emulsified and saponified by the bile, is trans- 
formed into sugar or peptone, or saponified by the enzymes of 
the pancreatic secretion ; and the product is called chyle, and 
from it the digested portions are absorbed. 

Various changes in the appearance, consistence, and quantity 
of the material take place in its course along the alimentary 
canal. As it leaves the stomach, the chyme is a yellowish, 
creamy solution ; but in the duodenum it becomes thinner by 
being mixed with the bile, and its colour is changed to a greenish- 
gray. As it is propelled slowly along the intestines, some of the 
fluid and products of digestion are absorbed, and the mass attains 
a greater density. More and more nutriment and water are 
absorbed from it, even during its slow descent through the colon, 
where it becomes thicker and browner, and finally the in- 
nutritious and indigestible portion is rejected as faeces. 

The faeces, as the dejecta are called, contain all that is in- 
digestible or insoluble in the food, together with such secretions 
as have not been absorbed. The residue, or waste, from various 
foods diifers somewhat. Thus, meat yields 5 per cent, of 
waste ; eggs, 5 ; milk, 9 ; peas, 9 ; beans, 15 ; bread, 4 ; pota- 
toes, 11 ; rice, 4 ; macaroni, 4 ; maize, 7 ; starch from arrow- 
root or cornflour, about 1 ; and fat about 5, except when its 
consumption is excessive. With an ordinary diet, the fgeces 
roughly represent one-seventh or one-eighth of the food, and 
consist of the following : (a) Indigestible portions of food, as 



THE ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 23 

cellulose, chlorophyll, uncooked starch, gum, resin, mucin, 
nuclein, tendon, elastic fibres, keratin, chitin, and insoluble 
salts ; (b) products of the decomposition of food, insoluble soaps, 
some fatty acids, etc. ; (c) bile residue, cholesterin, lecithin, 
choletelin, stercobilin ; (d) bacteria of many kinds, debris of 
intestinal matter ; (e) other undigested food. 

The digestibility of food depends upon several things, such as 
the form in which it is presented to the digestive secretions, 
the suitability of the food to provoke a flow of those secretions 
without unduly irritating the alimentary canal, and on the char- 
acter of the food. The time occupied by digestion also varies. 
Boiled meat, fish, or fowl is more quickly digested than roasted 
flesh of the same animal. Thus, roast beef requires 3 to 4 hours ; 
mutton, 3 to 3^ ; lamb, 2^, ; venison, 2{ ; poultry, turkey, 
pheasant, 3 to 3^ ; veal, 4| ; pork, 5 ; fried eggs, 3^ ; boiled 
mutton, only 3 hours ; beef, 3; poultry, 2i to 3; fish, IJ to 2i ; 
eggs, 2| to 3, according to hardness ; raw eggs, 1-k ; milk, 1^ 
to 2 ; and tripe, 1 hour. Wheaten bread requires 3 to 4 hours ; 
rice, sago, tapioca, or other milk pudding, 1^ to 2 ; potatoes, 
parsnips, and beans, 2^ to 3 ; cabbage, 3i to 4 ; carrots and 
turnips, 3^ to 4 ; apples, 3 to 4 ; and cheese, 3 to 4. Meat 
consists of muscle, supported by connective tissue and fat. In 
the stomach the fat is liquefied ; gelatine is dissolved, converted 
into gelatine-peptone, and absorbed ; the muscular fibres of the 
lean meat fall apart, and are split into discs and sarcous elements, 
being thoroughly prepared for complete peptonization in the bowels. 
Meanwhile, some of the albumins and globulms are converted 
into peptone and parapeptone in the stomach, the peptones being 
thence absorbed into the blood ; but the parapeptones pass with 
the chyme into the small intestines, where they are converted, 
through various stages, into antipeptone, and absorbed. Some 
of the nuclein of the cells is digested in the bowels and absorbed 
into the blood, the rest is rejected with the faeces, and elastic 
tissue also for the most part passes out of the body with other 
indigestible portions. The fat meat consists of a slight frame- 
work of gelatinous connective tissue, with blood and lymph 
vessels, enclosing large cells filled with a mixture of olein, pal- 
mitin, and stearin. During digestion in the stomach, the gastric 
juice dissolves the connective-tissue framework and the gelatinous 



24 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

envelope and protoplasm of the cells, thereby liberating the 
liquefied fat, which is churned up with the other contents of the 
stomach, and passes with the chyme into the bowels, to be 
emulsified and saponified and absorbed by the lacteals and 
bloodvessels. 

Much meat is indigestible. The flesh of very young animals — 
e.g., veal — is harder of digestion than that of the full-grown 
animal; but from adult age onwards the flesh of all animals 
gets harder and tougher, and consequently more difiicult to 
digest. Chicken, game, boiled fish, and tripe are easily digested, 
because they possess a fibre free from fat, and are therefore more 
readily acted upon by the gastric juice. Pork is indigestible 
because it contains a large quantity of fat, by which every 
muscle fibre becomes coated in the cooking. Ham, fat bacon, 
and other fat meat, are not so easily digested as poultry, not 
merely because the flesh of poultry is more tendei% but because 
the former contain much more fat, which has to be removed 
before the digestive juices can act upon the muscle fibres. Fish 
holds an intermediate place as regards digestibility ; but this, 
too, may be rendered indigestible when cooked in fat or served 
with highly-seasoned sauces. Sweet-bread is easily digested, 
because it consists of cells loosely held together by connective 
tissue, which is easily acted upon by the digestive ferments, and 
the cells fall apart and are quickly dissolved in the same. Meat 
extracts, clear soup, and similar articles, are, like water and 
alcohol, absorbed without any change. Milk, cheese, and butter 
have their proteids and fat digested in the same way as these 
substances in meat. 

Bread is easier to digest than meat. Animal food easily 
provokes a flow of the digestive secretions, but makes a heavier 
demand on digestion than starchy and carbohydrate foods in 
general, and the elaboration and elimination of all proteids 
throws more work on the liver and kidneys than do carbohydrate 
and fat, whence the latter have an advantage over the former. 
Bread consists chiefly of starch and gluten. The starch is con- 
verted by the saliva and pancreatic fluids into sugar, which is 
readily absorbed into the blood ; the gluten is peptonized in the 
stomach and bowels, like the proteids of meat ; but the cellulose 
covering of the starch cells is very indigestible, and mostly passes 



THE ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 25 

out of the bowels with other indigestible residue. In potatoes 
the starch cells or granules are burst by cooking, and the 
digestive ferments readily attack the starch and convert it to 
sugar. Arrowroot, cornflour, rice, sago, and all other articles 
which are rich in starch, are similarly digested. 

Vegetables consist of much starch, some proteid, sugar, dextrin, 
and a little fat, and are very rich in salts which resemble those 
of the blood. Fruit contains various kinds of sugar, salts, organic 
acids, and pectin, or vegetable gelatine. Condiments contain 
various complex essential oils or other principles which render 
them useful as stimulants of the appetite, promoters of digestion 
and secretion, and act as correctives or prevent injurious action 
by certain foods. All vegetable substances consist of cells having 
their walls composed of cellulose, enclosing the nutritive sac- 
charine and saline constituents. Now, cellulose is indigestible 
except under bacterial action in the lower bowel ; but the 
digestive secretions remove the contents of the cells by osmosis, 
and many of the cells are burst asunder by cooking, thereby 
permitting the digestive juices to gain ready access to their 
contents, and the starch, proteid, fat, and sugar are digested 
and absorbed in the ordinary way ; but most of the cellulose 
and vegetable fibres are rejected, and pass away with the fffices. 
Boiled vegetables and cooked fruit are usually easy of digestion ; 
but heavy kinds, such as carrots, turnips, and fibrous cabbages, 
are most difficult to digest, and create pain and flatulence in 
many people. Eaw fruit, vegetables and salad, which are very 
wholesome, and are especially beneficial to those who dwell in 
towns, are not so easy to digest as cooked ones. They are hardly 
changed at all in the stomach, except by removal of a portion of 
their juices, and must, therefore, be very carefully and thoroughly 
masticated to permit of their passage through the pylorus to the 
intestines. Eadishes and cucumbers are mainly indigestible by 
reason of the large amount of cellulose by which the cells are 
enveloped ; and turnips, carrots, and cabbage, because of the 
large proportion of indigestible fibrous material. 

All viade dislies, highly-spiced foods, curries, entrees, and other 
' rich ' food, are harmful, and often cause indigestion, liver trouble 
and htemorrhoids, and are apt to check]^the secretion of the 
digestive fluids. We have already observed that pork is in- 



26 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

digestible, because it contains a large quantity of easily-melted 
fat, which saturates every fibre ; and all dishes which require 
much fat in the cooking are equally indigestible. Poultry is 
readily digested because it contains but little fat ; duck and 
goose are indigestible because they contain much fat and oil of a 
peculiar character. Fish is always easily digested, unless much 
fat is used in cooking; nevertheless, some kinds contain a good 
deal of oil in their substance, which makes thera heavy and 
require long digestion. New bread is indigestible, because it 
readily forms into close, firm pellets, which the digestive secre- 
tions penetrate with difficulty. Good bread of a day or two 
old is very digestible for the opposite reason — viz., it is spongy, 
readily crumbles, and the digestive secretions easily saturate it. 
Hot buttered toast, hot buns, crumpets, muffins, pastry, rich cake, 
and similar articles, are very indigestible, and should be classed 
with pork and ' rich ' foods, because the butter or fat used in the 
cooking is melted into the flour, and, as this must be removed 
before the flour can be digested, the transformation of starch 
into sugar is very long delayed, and only occurs after the digestion 
of fat in the intestine ; for which reason these articles of food 
are pernicious to a person with a weak stomach, in whom they 
cause headache, giddiness, flatulence, acidity, and other signs of 
indigestion. 

Referexcks : Halliljurton's 'Physiology'; Power's ' Pliysiology ' ; HiU's 
' Notes on Physiology ' ; Foster's " Physiology.' 



CHAPTEK IV 
THE AFTER-HISTORY OF THE FOOD 

How do the digested foods get out of the alimentary canal? 
The process is a physical and vital one. When two liquids of 
difl'erent densities are put together, they mingle with each other 
in a definite manner, until the whole liquid is of the same density, 
the process being called diffusion. In like manner, when two 
liquids of difl'erent density are separated from one another by an 
animal membrane, they mingle with each other by passing through] 
the membrane, until that on each side is of the same density 



THE AFTEE-HISTOEY OF THE FOOD 27 

as the other. This is called osmosis. The two processes are 
governed by the well-known law that the rate of diffusion is in 
proportion to the pressure and the density. There is, therefore, 
during the process of digestion a constant current from the 
blood in the coats of the alimentary canal towards the cavity of 
the stomach and bowels, bringing with it the digestive secretions 
and ferments from the glands ; and a stream is constantly going 
from the interior of the alimentary canal, carrying with it the 
dissolved, digested, and diffusible substances of the food. The 
process is both intercellular and intracellular, and diffusion and 
osmosis are the processes concerned in it. But the vital activity 
of the cells lining the walls of the alimentary canal assists in 
absorption. All the cells take up nutrients from the canal and 
excrete them into the tissue spaces, from which they pass into 
the streams entering the blood and lymph vessels. The leu- 
cocytes in the walls of the canal, like amoebse, are active 
agents in taking up nutrients from the fluids which bathe them, 
either for private or public use. They can be seen contain- 
ing fat globules, particles of glycogen, and other products of 
digestion. But however the nutrients are absorbed, they get into 
the tissue spaces around the cells of the mucous membranes, 
and leave them by two distinct routes, the diffusible substances 
into the blood-stream, the indiffusible into the lymph-stream 
and thence into the general circulation to every part of the 
body. 

All carbohydrate enters the blood as sugar, where it assumes 
the form known as dextrose. The blood in general contains 
1 in 1,000, but that in the liver, after a meal, contains as much 
as 2 or 3 per 1,000. We have already observed that the starch, 
which forms so large a proportion of bread, flour, potatoes, and 
many of our ordinary kinds of food, is changed by the digestive 
enzymes into maltose — a kind of sugar which is identical with 
that in malt. The change is not direct, only a small portion 
becoming maltose at once, the rest going through stages known 
as erythro-dextrin and achroo-dextrin ; but the end product is 
always maltose, which is absorbed into the blood, or in the 
intestines is further transformed into dextrose prior to absorption. 
Three principal kinds of sugar are taken in our food. Cane-sugar, 
or saccharose, is the ordinary material used for sweetening our 



28 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

food. In the stomach this is converted, by gastric juice acting 
upon it in the presence of mucin, into dextrose — 

C,,H,Ai + H.,0^2C,H,A; 

in the intestines it is converted into dextrose and levulose, but 
small quantities of dextrin and cane-sugar are absorbed without 
change. Fruit-sugar is mostly dextrose, and needs no trans- 
formation. Milk-sugar, or lactose, is changed in the stomach 
into galactose, and in the bowels into galactose and levulose, and 
absorbed. 

The carbohydrate, being absorbed from the alimentary canal, 
is carried all over the body by the blood to supply the system 
with heat and muscular energy ; and while supplying force and 
heat it undergoes more chemical changes, by which it is ulti- 
mately reduced to carbonic acid and water, in which forms it is 
removed from the body by the skin, lungs, and kidneys. 

When more carbohydrate is consumed than is required for 
immediate consumption it leads to the formation of fat in the 
body, and the person becomes stout or obese ; at the same time 
some of the unused carbohydrate is stored up in the muscles and 
liver, chiefly in the latter, in the form of glycogen. The cells of 
the liver are large protoplasmic bodies, capable of amoeboid move- 
ment and in close contiguity with an immensely rich system of 
capillary bloodvessels, which are laden with material fresh from 
the alimentary canal. From these vessels the liver cells derive 
their nutriment, and in favourable conditions they can be seen 
laden with masses of glycogen, globules of fat, and stores of 
proteid material. The liver is therefore a reservoir of carbo- 
hydrate material or glycogen, and has been compared with the 
tubers of dahlias, potatoes, and other plants which store up 
starch for future use in their organism. 

Glycogen has the same chemical formula as starch and dextrin, 
and bears the same relationship to the sugars. Its accumulation 
depends much upon the food : carbohydrates produce most, 
proteids some, gelatine a very little, and fat none at all. It is 
rapidly used up during active exercise and prolonged muscular 
exertion, and especially during fasting or illness, when the supply 
of food is much reduced. It is probably set free from the liver 
by means of an enzyme, which converts it into dextrose as it is 



THE AFTEE-HISTOKY OF THE FOOD 29 

required ; at any rate, most of the carbohydrate of the food finds 
its way to the liver, and the liver regulates the supply of dextrose 
to the blood. If this were not so, the system would be flooded 
with sugar after each meal ; but, fortunately, the amount of sugar 
in the blood generally remains fairly constant, and does not 
appear to diminish so long as there is plenty of glycogen stored 
up in the liver and other tissues. 

The proteids pursue a different career from the last-named 
foods. It is probable that all, or nearly all, the proteids used by 
the body are converted during digestion into peptones (anti- and 
hemi-peptone) by various stages, which can be watched by 
experiments in the laboratory. Being duly prepared by careful 
mastication, and subsequent maceration with gastric juice, some 
of the albumins and globulins are converted into peptone and 
parapeptone in the stomach ; the peptone is absorbed into the 
blood, but the parapeptones pass with the chyme into the intes- 
tines, where they are converted by the trypsin of the pancreatic 
juice into antipeptone and absorbed. 

Peptones having been formed by the transformation of proteid, 
they are absorbed through the walls of the alimentary canal, and 
gain entrance to the blood-stream. But peptone is not found 
normally in the blood which leaves these organs. What has 
become of it ? Diffusion is a process by which fluids mingle with 
one another, but it cannot account for the disappearance of the 
peptones. An important change has taken place ; the proteid 
leaves the stomach and bowels in the form of peptone, which is 
a substance not exactly adapted for the body, and arrives in the 
bloodvessels in the form of albumin, differing in no respect from 
those kinds which are found in the blood of other parts of the 
body. How is this done ? The matter is not quite clearly under- 
stood at present, but it is extremely probable that the change 
takes place in the interior of the cells which line the alimentary 
canals, and which assist in the process of absorption. All cells 
contain enzymes, and it seems likely that the cells are the 
medium and the enzymes in them the actual cause of the trans- 
formation from peptone to albumin during absorption. 

Proteids are used in the body for the current expenditure, 
being partly applied to the repair of tissues worn out by the wear 
and tear of the machinery, and in certain circumstances are 



30 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

partly stored up in the form of fat in the body. The amount of 
proteid used can be measured. It is known that 1 part of urea 
contains as much nitrogen as 3 parts of proteid, whence the 
amount of proteid which is used in a given time can be estimated 
by the amount of urea or total nitrogen excreted in the urine 
during the same time. When the nitrogen thus excreted — and 
here roughly spoken of as the urea — corresponds in amount to 
the proteid contained in the food, there is established a nitrogenous 
equilibrmm — that is to say, all the proteid is being used to repair 
the tissues only ; the structures are neither dwindling away nor 
increasing in bulk ; the elements are simply replaced as they 
wear out. If more proteid is eaten and digested than can be 
accounted for by the urea or nitrogenous excretion, the body 
must be laying on flesh ; it is either stored up as granules of 
proteid in the liver, or it is converted into fat. Foster says that 
proteid is converted into a urea moiety and a fatty moiety — 
that when people live on an ordinary mixed diet any excessive 
consumption of proteid usually leads to fat, and continual excessive 
eating to obesity, from which it is evident that the body is 
capable of manufacturing fat for storage or for the production of 
heat and energy. It is not known whether the body can manu- 
facture proteid from other materials : the substances used in its 
formation must necessarily contain nitrogen, which the starches 
and fat do not ; but there are in beef-tea and other meat infusions 
and essences a large proportion of nitrogenous extractives derived 
from the metabolism of the tissues from which beef-tea or meat 
extract is prepared. Such are xanthin, hypoxanthin, creatin, 
creatinin, glycin, leucin, tyrosin, and other allied bodies. Is the 
body capable of constructing proteid from these ? Probably not. 
These substances are the products of the decomposition of proteids ; 
they are useless as tissue-formers, but they excite the metabolism 
of the body, and in so far are stimulants, and the beneficial 
effects of beef-tea and meat extracts are solely due to this 
influence. 

The proteids in the body undergo decomposition by their use ; 
they break up into such substances as the nitrogenous extractives 
named above, and go through lower and still lower grades of 
chemical composition, until they arrive at such a low grade as 
carbonic acid, water, and urea. So long as vital activity is in 



THE AFTEE-HISTORY OF THE FOOD 31 

progress, proteid is being used up and waste materials produced, 
which, like the waste products of the consumption of carbo- 
hydrate substances, leave the body by the skin, lungs, and 
kidneys, but chiefly by the latter. The principal normal waste 
product from the utilization of proteid materials by human 
beings is urea, but all nitrogenous materials go through several 
grades before reaching that stage ; and the liver is the principal 
organ in which the final stage is reached prior to its excretion, 
the production of urea being an important function of that organ. 
There is constantly in the blood of man a small proportion (about 
^ per cent.) of urea, which allows for the daily elimination of 
33 to 37 grammes by the kidneys; but this amount varies in 
proportion to the work done by the body, the amount of proteid 
substances consumed, and the state of health. 

Fat is the most important representative of the hydrocarbons 
in our food. Common forms are fat meat, butter, cream, milk 
(part of), cheese (part of). Fat meat is a useful example for our 
consideration. During digestion the slight framework of con- 
nective tissue and protoplasm of the cells is peptonized, thereby 
liberating the fat or oil, which becomes emulsified and saponified 
in the intestines. The emulsion consists of minute particles of 
fat in a state of extremely fine subdivision, each of which has a 
tendency to assume a globular form ; this, however, is more or 
less counteracted by the influence of the salts in the bile, which 
tend to destroy the surface tension, and assist them in their 
passage through the mucous surfaces. We have also observed 
that other portions of the fat are converted into forms of soap by 
the pancreatic fluid, a solution of which is readily absorbed. 
That a large proportion of the digested fat is absorbed by the 
lacteals and gains an entrance into the blood through the 
thoracic duct has been proved. After a meal the fluid in the 
lymphatic vessels, of which the thoracic duct is the largest, is 
quite milky from the presence of fat. But that all fat does not 
reach the blood in this manner has likewise been proved ; for if 
the amount of fat which passes through the thoracic duct be 
compared with that absorbed {i.e., with the amount in food 
viinus that in the fteces), there is seen to be a deficiency of 
nearly 50 per cent., from which it is concluded that a good deal 
of it is absorbed directly into the bloodvessels in the form of the 



32 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

soluble and absorbable soaps which are manufactured in the 
bowels. 

However the fat gains entrance to the bloodvessels, it can be 
seen in the blood for some time after a meal in the form of fine 
globules. But the blood soon resumes its usual appearance. 
What has become of the fat ? The leucocytes, or white cells of 
the blood, are seen to contain fat globules, and by them, or in 
some other way, the fat is carried all over the body to the tissues 
thereof ; in the tissues it is used for the production of heat and 
energy and other current expenditure, being itself reduced to 
carbonic acid and water, which are excreted by the skin, lungs, 
and kidneys. It appears that all kinds of fat and oil are absorbed 
into the body in the same way, and are used for the same pur- 
poses. When there is a greater consumption of food than is 
necessary to supply current expenditure, fat is stored up in tlie 
subcutaneous and other cellular tissues. Animals with a suitable 
diet often put on more fat than their food contains ; pigs accumu- 
late much more fat in the body, and cows give more fat in their 
milk than exists in their food, whence it is concluded that the 
additional fat is derived from the conversion of some of the 
proteid and carbohydrate elements, which have already been 
shown to cause an accumulation of fat when there is a greater 
consumption of them than is necessary. People in cold climates 
eat much fat ; but men who have to work generally prefer to 
derive their energy from carbohydrate and proteid material. To 
sum up the uses of fat in the body : It yields force and energy 
for work, and by consumption it supplies heat ; it yields more 
heat than either of the other classes of food ; it is also accumu- 
lated in the body as a reserve of force and energy ; by its 
accumulation it serves to protect many important tissues and 
organs, and gives to the general surface that contour or curve 
which is the line of beauty. 

References: Hill's 'Notes on Physiology' ; Foster's 'Physiology,' vol. ii. ; 
Halliburton's ' Physiology ' ; Power's ' Physiology. ' 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 33 

CHAPTEE V 
THE VAT.UE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 

Food is required to make good the losses of the body, to main- 
tain its heat, to supply it with mechanical energy, to build up or 
repair the structure of the machinery, as well as for growth and 
reproduction ; simply, the body is constructed out of the food, 
and by it kept in repair. Food, therefore, is either a flesh- 
former and repairer, or it is a source of heat and energy ; materials 
such as coffee, tea, and extracts of meat, do neither, and cannot 
be regarded as true foods. 

The quantity of food required by a man for the purposes named 
has been variously estimated. The most satisfactory method of 
calculating it is by ascertaining the amount of materials excreted 
from the body under various circumstances. It has been found 
that a man doing ordinary work excretes 5,000 grains (about 
10 ounces) of carbon, and 500 grains (1 ounce) of nitrogen per 
diem. Women excrete less of these substances than men, 
but children excrete more in proportion to their weight than 
adults, because of their great activity and progressive develop- 
ment ; in old age, however, the amount, especially of nitrogen, 
falls considerably. The average excretion of nitrogen is reckoned 
as being 0-5 gramme per kilogramme, or 7 grains for every 
2 pounds of body weight. The excreted nitrogen is estimated in 
the form of urea, and carbon as carbonic acid gas. 

The amount of urea excreted daily varies with circumstances ; 
the average normal amount is 33 grammes, or 509 grains, but 
when the diet consists wholly of proteid material it is 35, 50, or 
even 80 grammes per day. The amount is less, however, if the 
food consists entirely of carbohydrate and vegetable, and it may 
then sink to 12 or 18 grammes ; and when no food at all is taken 
urea is excreted to the extent of 10 grammes, or 150 grains, per 
day, which must be derived entirely from the wear and tear of the 
bodily tissues by vital activity. Work or rest appears to have 
very little effect on the amount of urea excreted. During a period 
of rest very little less is excreted, and during or soon after hard 
work there is only a shght rise above the normal amount, which 

3 



34 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

is due to the disintegration of the tissues, and shows that the 
daily depreciation by wear and tear of the macliinery is not great 
when food is taken ; it also shows that the real source of the 
energy used is derived from the carbohydrates and hydrocarbons 
of the food, for the amount of nitrogenous waste matter which is 
excreted is not at all adequate to account for the work performed. 

A healthy man doing ordinary work requires more food, both 
proteid and carbohydrate, than the same man at rest ; when men 
do little work, or the occupation is more or less sedentary, they 
require less proteid than those whose work is active or laborious. 
It must be borne in mind, however, that even in cases of starva- 
tion with absolute rest of the body there is a wasting of the 
bodily tissues equivalent to a loss of 10 grammes, or 150 grains^ 
of urea daily, whence it may be inferred that it is neither wise 
nor safe to reduce the supply of proteid below the amount which 
will replace the tissues wasted to produce this minimum of urea ; 
indeed, Moleschott, a careful investigator, asserts that we cannot 
safely reduce the amount of proteid below what is required to 
supply 20 grammes, or 300 grains, of urea, which is excreted by 
a man during absolute rest. 

When arranging dietaries, it is usual to allow three-fourths the 
amount of proteid for a woman as for a man, for children of 
eleven to fifteen years of age the same amount as for a woman, 
for those under ten half as much, while for young men in active 
employment the same amount as for adults in the same em- 
ployment. 

The carbon used in the body is derived from the carbohydrates 
and hydrocarbons of our food, or those stored up in the tissues. 
The nutritive value of fat, as compared with starch or other 
carbohydrate, is as 10 to 17, but the heat-producing power of fat 
is to that of starch and similar foods as 9-3 is to 44 ; and in 
calculating the amount of food for bodies of men it is usual to 
allow as much of these substances as will supply the carbon 
excreted in a day as carbonic acid gas, estimated as being 300 to 
324 grammes, or 4,500 to 5,000 grains. 

Dietaries are usually arranged in agreement with the average 
excretion of nitrogen and carbon ; and the amount of these 
substances excreted during a period of absolute rest, 300 grains of 
urea and 4,500 grains of carbon, is the minimum below which it 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 35 

is regarded as unsafe to reduce the foods to supply them, and 
the proportion of carbon to nitrogen required is therefore as 
15 to 1. Many investigators have made calculations, by experi- 
ments upon themselves and other men, of the amount of food 
required to supply these items ; at the same time, their object 
has been to establish a nitrogenous equilibrium, to keep their 
weight constant, to establish a balance between the nitrogen 
in their food and that found in their excreta. The results are 
highly interesting, but they show a variation in the dietaries of 
the investigators, probably owing to personal peculiarity or 
idiosyncrasy and other circumstances ; they also show that no 
hard-and-fast rule can be established for all men, although the 
tables are exceedingly useful in calculating dietaries for public 
institutions or large bodies of men. Moleschott found that a diet 
which contained 120 grammes of proteid, 90 of fat, 330 of carbo- 
hydrate, and 30 of salts per diem, best attained these objects for 
himself. But Eanke, another ardent investigator, found his 
weight and health were best maintained on a diet containing 
100 grammes of proteid, 100 of fat, 240 of carbohydrate, 25 of 
salts, and 2,600 of water per diem ; he chose his food from 
ordinary articles which he liked, without regard to character or 
cost, but he also found that the required elements could be 
obtained from a simple diet consisting of 17 ounces of meat, 
1 ounces of bucter or other fat, and 17 ounces of bread. Parkes 
found that a man doing ordinary work may obtain the necessary 
carbon and nitrogen, and maintain his weight and health, from 
8 ounces of meat, 2 ounces of butter, and 28^ ounces of bread. 
The latter authority also gives the following interesting table of 
diet, showing the amount of dry food required for (1) mere sub- 
sistence — that is, just enough food to do the internal mechanical 
work of the body when a man is at rest ; (2) for a man doing 
ordinary work, in which there is a consumption of visible energy 
equal to 300 foot-tons per diem ; and (3) for a man doing laborious 
work, in which there is a consumption of energy equivalent to 
450 to 500 foot-tons per diem ; and they are calculated for a man 
of average size and weight (150 pounds). 



3—2 



36 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 
Table from Parkes' ' Practical Hygiene.' 





Weight, stated in Ou^'CEs. 


Subsistence. 


Ordinary 
Work. 


Laborious 
Work. 


Proteids or albuminates 

Hydrocarbons or fats 

Cai'boliydrates ... 

Salts 


2-0 

O-.T 

120 

0-, 


4-5 

3-5 

14-0 

1-0 


6-5 

4-0 

17-0 

1-3 


Total water-free food 


15-0 


23-0 


28-8 



The above quantities represent absolutely dry food ; therefore, as 
ordinary food contains 50 to 60 per cent, of water, they should be 
rather more than doubled when making calculations for any 
particular dietary. The following list of foods, also quoted from 
Parkes' ' Practical Hygiene,' shows the proportion of proteid or 
albuminate, the fat, carbohydrate, salts, and water in each ; and 
Parkes states that 1 ounce of albuminate contains 70 grains of 
nitrogen and 212 grains of carbon, 1 ounce of fat contains 
336 grains of carbon, and 1 ounce of carbohydrate 190 grains of 
carbon. 







Percentage Composition, 




Proteid. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Fat. 


Salts. 


Water. 


Cooked meat (no loss)... 


27 


5 




15-f) 


30 


54-0 


White fish 


18 





— 


3-0 


1 





78 





Egg 


13 


.5 


— 


11-6 


1 





73 


5 


Milk (sp.gr. = 1030) ... 


4 





4-8 


3-7 





7 


86 


8 


Cheese ... 


33 


5 


— 


24-3 


5 


4 


36 


8 


Butter 


3 


3 


— 


88-0 


2 


7 


6 





Bread (white or brown) 


8 





490 


i-r, 


1 


5 


40 





"Wheat flour 


11 





70-3 


2-0 


1 


7 


If) 





Barley-meal 


12 


7 


71-0 


20 


3 





11 


3 


Oatmeal 


12 


6 


63-0 


.5-6 


3 





15 





Rye meal 


13 


1 


69-3 


20 


2 


1 


13 


5 


Peas (dried) 


22 





53-3 


20 


2 


4 


15 





Rice 


5 





83-0 


0-8 





5 


10 





Maize 


10 





64-5 


6-7 


1 


4 


13 


5 


ArrowToot 





8 


83-3 


— 





27 


15 


4 


Sugar 


— 




96-5 


— 





5 


3 





Potatoes 


2 





21-0 


016 


1 





74 





Cabbage 


1-8 


5-8 


0-5 


0-7 


91-0 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 



37 



Moleschott, when arranging a dietary for young active adult 
soldiers, allowed 130 grammes of proteid, 84 of fat, 404 of carbo- 
hydrate per diem, which is a generous allowance ; and he calcu- 
lated that the required quantity of proteid or carbohydrate could 
be obtained from the amount stated against the article in the 
adjoining list. The English equivalent is given beside the French 
weight. 

Moleschott's Table (akranged). 





130 Grammes of Proteid may 
be obtained from— 


404 Grammes of Carbo- 
hydrate may be obtained 
from — 




Grammes. 


Ounces. 


Grammes. 




Ounces. 


Cheese 


388 equal 


to 12i 


2,011 


equal 


to 


71 


Lentils 


491 


17| 


806 






m 


Peas ... 


533 


20| 


819 






29 


Beef 


614 


2U 


2,261 






80 


Eggs 


969 


34 


902 






31g 


Wheaten bread 


1,444 


51 


625 






24 


Rice 


2,562 


90^ 


572 






20 


Rye bread . . . 


2,876 


ioo| 










Potato 


10,000 


352 


2,039 


" 




73 

1 



The above estimates confirm the classification of foods by 
showing that for yielding proteid the advantage is decidedly in 
favour of meat, peas, beans, lentils, cheese, and other nitrogenous 
foods ; but for carbohydrate the advantage is with bread, rice, 
sago, and other starchy foods. The table is of economic value 
in showing that a combination of bread and meat, bread and 
cheese, or rice with a highly nitrogenous food is the most 
economical diet as regards the physiological work to be per- 
formed in its digestion and elaboration. As a rule, four times 
as much non-nitrogenous as nitrogenous food is required to 
supply the due proportion of carbon and nitrogen. 

TJie advantages of a mixed diet are that it is the most 
economical, and spares the organs which are exercised in digest- 
ing the food and removing the debris. Supposing bread alone to 
be eaten, it will be necessary to consume 4^ pounds of this 
material to obtain the 300 grains of nitrogen which is considered 
to be the least quantity which may safely be allowed ; but this 
amount will contain 9,000 grains of carbon, or double the amount 
required, and would throw extra work on the digestive and 



38 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

eliminatory organs. If lean meat be taken alone, 6^ pounds 
must be consumed in order to obtain the 4,500 grains of carbon 
necessary to supply the daily amount of beat and energy ; but 
this quantity would contain 1,350 grains of nitrogen, and the 
consumption of so much meat (equivalent to ~ of the average 
weight of a man) would involve a tremendous waste of nitrogen. 
Even if his digestive organs were equal to such a daily task, he 
would consume, and his organs would have to eliminate, three or 
four times as much nitrogen as his body could fix. Life cannot, 
therefore, be economically maintained upon either of these sub- 
stances alone, and similar arguments apply to many other 
foods. But bread and meat in combination form a good example 
of a simple mixed diet, which will supply the requirements of 
the body with very little excess of either element when the con- 
sumption is regulated by the facts thus elicited. According as 
more or less bread, more or less meat, is eaten, either of the 
following — Parkes' diet for a man doing ordinary work, viz., 
8 ounces of meat, 2 ounces of butter, 28i ounces of bread ; or 
Eanke's dietary, 17 ounces of lean meat, 4 ounces of butter or 
fat meat, and 17 ounces of bread — will contain the amount of 
carbon and nitrogen required, and show the advantage of a mixed 
diet containing the simplest combination of proximate principles. 

THE WORK DONE BY THE FOOD. 

A day's food yields, according to Eanke's estimate, his own 
requirements being taken as a standard, 2,310,000 calories or units 
of heat by its oxidation into urea, carbonic acid, and water. The 
calorie, gramme-degree, or unit of heat, is the amount of heat re- 
quired to raise the temperature of 1 gramme of water 1° C. Our 
food contributes the following proportions to it : 1 gramme of fat 
gives out during its oxidation or complete combustion 9,300 calories ; 
1 gramme of proteid, 4,500 calories ; and 1 gramme of carbo- 
hydrate, 4,100 calories.''' All organic substances when consumed 
serve as sources of heat and energy by becoming oxidized in the. 

* The calorie is the term used to signify the standard of heat-production by- 
all authorities, but it has been given a different value by some, who reckon it as 
of 1,000 times greater value. According to these, the unit of heat or calorie is 
the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kilogramme of water 
1° C, and 1 gramme of fat yields 9'3 calories, 1 gramme of proteid 4-.^, and of 
carbohydrate 4 -1 calories ; consequently, the work done by Ranke's allowance of 
food is equivalent to the ^jroductiou of 2,310 calories or units of heat. 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 39 

tissues. The proteids and carbohydrates are of nearly equal value 
as heat-producers, and only half as valuable as fat for this pur- 
pose ; on the other hand, though only half as potent as fat as 
producers of heat, the carbohydrates are admitted to rank first as 
producers of muscular energy. The 2,310,000 calories or units 
of heat would, if transformed into physical energy, suffice to 
raise 1,000,000 kilogrammes of water to a height of 1 metre 
( = 1,000,000 kilogramme-metres). This energy is dispersed by 
the body in the following manner : 150,000 kilogramme-metres, 
or only 15 per cent, of the whole energy from the food, is used 
in doing the ordinary day's work, and 85 per cent., or 850,000 kilo- 
gramme-metres, of energy are consumed by the body in keeping 
up the warmth and performing the internal work of the organism. 
Parkes and other English authorities used the mechanical 
term ' foot-ton ' instead of the calorie as their unit of measure- 
ment. A foot-ton is the amount of energy required to raise a 
mass weighing 1 ton to a height of 1 foot above the ground, and 
the use of this unit gives similar results. During a state of rest 
a man gives off as much carbonic acid gas as would require the 
consumption of 2,400 foot-tons of energy in its production, and 
during an ordinary day's work 3,700 foot-tons. One ounce of 
dry albuminate will yield 173 foot-tons ; 1 ounce of dry carbo- 
hydrate, 135 foot-tons ; and 1 ounce of fat, 378 foot-tons of 
potential energy. From which it is calculated that Parkes' 
' mere subsistence ' diet (2 ounces dry albuminate, ^ ounce fat, 
12 ounces cai-bohydrate, and ^ ounce salts) will yield 2,155 foot- 
tons of energy ; Playfair's ' subsistence ' diet (2| ounces dry 
albuminate, 1 ounce fat, and 12 ounces dry carbohydrate) is 
capable of yielding 2,430 foot-tons of potential energy ; and the 
average diet yields about 4,000 foot-tons, of which 300 are 
exhausted in doing an ordinary day's work, and 3,700 are 
required to maintain the bodily heat and perform the functions 
of the body in maintaining it in a state of efficiency to produce 
that degree of physical activity.* 

The amount of energy yielded by our food may theoretically 

be accurately gauged, and is undoubtedly produced when the 

constituents are completely oxidized into carbonic acid and 

water. But we know that many kinds of food leave a large 

* 'Hygiene and Public Health,' by L. G. Parkes, pp. 337, 338. 



40 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

residue, and their dietetic value depends upon tiieir digestibility 
and the capability of the individual to assimilate it. No hard- 
and-fast rules can be given which are adapted to all individuals ; 
they are useful in calculating the amount of food required by 
large bodies of men and for public institutions, but a glance over 
the dietaries quoted in the following chapters will show that 
some of them, if they err at all, do so on the side of generosity. 

THE COST OF FOOD. 

Food is cheapest when its proximate principles are derived 
from the vegetable kingdom. According to Konig's calculation, 
the animal kingdom yields them at the following cost : 100 
grammes of proteid cost 65 pence, 100 grammes of fat 20 pence ; 
from the vegetable kingdom 100 grammes of proteid cost 15 pence, 
100 grammes of fat 4-5 pence, and 100 grammes of carbohydrate 
2'5 pence. 

During an investigation of the dietaries of the working classes 
by Noel Paton and Crauford Dunlop similar results were arrived 
at, and in a report upon the subject they gave the following 
conclusions : 

' It is impossible to find a standard diet from which the supply 
of energy may be exactly drawn. The energy required varies 
with the age of the person and the work to be done. . . . Food 
is the sole source of energy for work ; and the working capacity 
of a man is conditioned by the amount of food he consumes. . . . 
Insufficient food diminishes the working power by preventing the 
full development of muscle, and by not affording energy for the 
work to be done. 

' Bread forms the basis of all diets. It provides an average of 
one-third of the total energy and one-third of the total proteid 
used. It is a cheap food. For providing energy we find only 
oatmeal and sugar are cheaper ; for providing proteid we find 
only oatmeal and peas are cheaper. 

' Potato is a more expensive food than bread ; both as energy 
and proteid provider it is twice as dear, but its antiscorbutic 
properties justify its use in dietaries. 

' Milk is comparatively expensive. As a source of energy it is 
five times, and as a source of proteid it is three times, as dear as 
bread ; but it is essential in the diet of small children. 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 41 

' Sugar is one of the most important foodstuffs of the poor. It is 
solely an energy-provider, but for this purpose it is cheapest of all. 

' Beef is an expensive source of nourishment. Its proteid is 
four times as dear, and its energy nine times as dear, as that of 
bread. Ham is cheaper than beef, both as energy and proteid 
provider, and so are sausages and mutton. 

•'Fresh fish is cheap as proteid-provider, but dear as energy- 
provider ; smoked and dried fish is expensive both as energy and 
proteid provider. 

' Eggs are expensive both as energy and proteid provider. 
Their large use may be attributed to the small amount of trouble 
required in cooking them. 

' Butter, margarine, dripping, and suet are cheap foods as a 
source of energy, only sugar being cheaper. They rank third as 
a source of energy. 

' Cheese is a cheap source of both proteid and energy. 

' Oatmeal costs less than bread as a source of both proteid and 
energy. Peas are cheaper than oatmeal as proteid-provider ; 
and sugar is cheaper as energy-provider, but the latter contains 
710 proteid. As a food providing cheap energy, and having a 
good proteid value, oatmeal is the best of the entire list. 

' Without an adequate supply of food, growth and development 
of the body are impossible, the v^orking capacity of the individual 
is reduced, and a predisposition to disease is induced. ... A 
dietary consisting only of tea with bread-and-butter is faulty ; it 
can be improved by the free use of meat and other animal foods, 
but these are expensive ; it can also be improved by the free use 
of oatmeal and milk, or peas, beans, or lentils, which add little 
to the cost, but require much more care in the cooking. A 
daily diet containing meat need not cost more than sevenpence, 
but when meat is replaced by peas and beans or oatmeal and 
milk it need not cost more than fourpence per diem.' 

The great point is that people require to be educated in the 
comparative value of foods as well as in the art of cooking. The 
pulses are exceedingly valuable, for instance, as proteid-providers, 
but great care is required in cooking them. Dr. Noel Paton says : 
' The large use of food which provides energy but not proteid is 
one reason why the dietaries of the poor are so badly balanced ; 
they contain but little proteid comparatively to their energy.' 



42 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The pulses, peas, beans, lentils, contain quite as much proteid as 
meat, and should be used more abundantly than they now are in 
all families where the cost of meat is a matter of great considera- 
tion. A glance at the composition of food in the foregoing lists 
and the following chapters will show which foods are the best 
suited for providing proteid or flesh-forming food, and for energy, 
which is provided by the carbohydrates and fats. 

COOKING THE FOOD. 

The object of cooking our food is to make it more wholesome, 
palatable, and easier of digestion. Prolonged exposure to heat 
develops in meat certain aromatic bodies which are agreeable to 
smell and taste and encourage appetite, besides rendering the 
substance more congenial to the civilized palate. All flesh is 
sterilized by cooking, thus destroying bacterial and other noxious 
organisms, and preserving it from putrefactive changes. The 
eifect of heat is to coagulate albumin in the muscular fibres, to 
solidify fibrin, to gelatinize tendons and fibrous tissues, and to 
render the whole mass more agreeable to the palate, pleasing to 
the eye, wholesome and digestible. 

Most kinds of food lose more or less bulk in cooking. Beef 
loses a quarter and mutton a fifth on boiling, and more on 
roasting. In roasting the loss arises by the melting out of fat 
and evaporation of water, while some of the albumin and other 
substances from the surface escape into the gravy and enrich it. 
In boiling gelatine also is extracted. Eoasted or baked meat is 
usually more nutritious than boiled. 

Baking Meat. — The object is best attained by exposing the 
meat to a high temperature in a quick oven for about five minutes, 
by which means the albumin on the surface is coagulated and 
forms a coating whicli prevents the escape of the juices from 
within. The meat is then more slowly cooked at about 175° to 
200° F., so that it may attain a proper degree of heat internally. 
If it is kept at too great a heat, it will be dry or burnt on the 
outside and nearly raw inside ; while if it is put in an oven which 
is too slow at the beginning, the meat will be spoiled by the 
escape of too much juice from the interior. Liebig stated that 
beef or mutton is not cooked until it has attained a temperature 
of 158° F. throughout the whole mass ; but poultry and game. 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 43 

although requiring a hotter oven than butcher's meat, are more 
quickly cooked, and need only attain a uniform temperature of 
about 130° to 140° F. The peculiarity of baking depends upon 
the substance bsing heated in a confined space or oven which 
does not allow the steam and fumes arising from the meat to 
escape ; and the flesh is rendered more tender and sapid by the 
retention of its own juices. Baked meat is not quite so easily 
digested as roasted, on account of the greater retention of the 
oils, which are rendered empyreumatic and indigestible by great 
heat ; it therefore requires the addition of various condiments to 
aid the stomach in the performance of its work. 

Meat is roasted in front of a fire. A radiant fire filling the 
grate is necessary for a large joint, while a thin and smaller one 
requires a smaller but bright fire. Great care is necessary in the 
management of the temperature, and a joint should never be put 
down before a fire which is nearly exhausted or will speedily 
require replenishing. Likewise, if the fire becomes too fierce, the 
joint should be removed some distance from it until the fierceness 
is somewnat abated. The temperature it attains internally is 
that of baked meat. 

When meat is broiled, it is placed upon a bare fire consisting 
of clear red-hot cinders ; by this means the exterior is suddenly 
browned and hardened, evaporation is thereby prevented, and 
the meat is cooked in its own juices, which impart to it a peculiar 
tenderness and flavour. G-rilled meat is done in the same way, 
the grill being a handy instrument for placing it over the fire and 
removing it. This is the form of cooked meat considered to be 
most suitable for those who seek to invigorate themselves by 
training and athletics. 

Frying is the most objectionable method of cooking meat or 
fish from a medical point of view, because the heat is applied 
through the medium of boiling fat or oil, which becomes empy- 
reumatic, and makes the meat more indigestible and most liable 
to disagree with the stomach. 

When boiling, like roasting or baking, the meat, if intended to 
be eaten, should be exposed to the influence of a boiling tempera- 
ture for five or more minutes until the albumin in the outer 
layers is coagulated, which will prevent the escape of the internal 
juices ; it is then cooked by simmering it at 170° to 200" F. Fish 



44 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

requires boiling more gently than meat, or it will fall to pieces. 
A little salt is usually added when boiling meat or fish. A scum 
rises to the surface, aided by the salt, and should be removed 
at intervals, otherwise it will dissolve in the liquid and spoil the 
appearance of the meat. 

By cooking vegetables the cellulose envelopes are burst asunder 
in consequence of the heat, so that when they are eaten the 
digestive ferments of the alimentary canal can more easily get to 
the starchy or albuminous contents. In bread and other glutinous 
foods the albumin is coagulated, and in bread it sets in a per- 
manent vesicular mass which the digestive secretions can readily 
permeate. In green vegetables the fibres are softened, the 
albumin coagulated, the gummy, saccharine, saline, and oily 
matters partly removed by the water. Green vegetables should be 
boiled fast with the lid off the saucepan, and frequently skimmed. 
Eain- water is especially useful for cooking, on account of its soft- 
ness, freedom from salts of lime and magnesia. These salts are 
present in hard water, and when vegetables or meat are boiled in 
it a certain amount of salts are deposited, thereby increasing the 
scum and, when they are deposited upon the meat or vegetables, 
hindering the penetration of heat into the interior, or preventing 
the abstraction of soluble materials when making broth or soup. 

It was formerly thought that well-cooked food never wrought 
any harm, but the unfortunate experience of thousands has 
changed that opinion. ' High ' game, for instance, is in the 
first stage of putrefaction, or, as Pasteur stated, in a preputre- 
factive stage. This condition is produced by certain micro- 
organisms or bacteria which are constantly floating in the air, 
and find a convenient place for living and breeding in the juices 
of the flesh. It is difficult to say how long it is necessary for 
game to hang in order to obtain the proper game flavour, and the 
boundary-line between this stage and putrefaction is very narrow 
and easily passed without recognition. The game flavour is due 
to the metabolic activity of the micro-organisms which have settled 
in it, which, by a process allied to that of fermentation, produce 
changes in the albumin and other constituents, and give rise to 
certain aromatic bodies. Such micro - organisms contain an 
enzyme which may so act upon the albuminous portions of the 
flesh as to produce substances known as ptomaines and leuco- 



THE VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 45 

maines, which are of a decidedly poisonous character. An 
explanation is thus afforded of the action of apparently well- 
cooked food in producing ptomaine-poisoning. The heat employed 
in cooking a substance destroys the bacteria in it, and the food 
may be safely eaten while it is hot ; but the heat may not have 
been great enough to destroy the enzyme of such bacteria, and 
this goes on destroying albumin and producing ptomaines or 
leucomaines even after cooking ; whence it happens that a dish 
of tainted meat is sometimes eaten quite safely immediately it is 
cooked, but a few hours afterwards, ptomaines having been pro- 
duced by the enzymes, it has become very poisonous. Many 
articles of food have given rise to such an experience ; and 
ptomaine-poisoning has arisen from the consumption of tainted 
meat in any form, especially meat-pies, sausages, potted meat, 
fish, mussels and other shell-fish, tinned foods, and puddings 
made of mouldy bread. 

References : Power's ' Physiology' ; Foster's ' Physiology,' vol. i. ; Hallibur- 
ton's 'Physiology' ; Parkes' 'Hygiene and Public Health,' 3rd ed. ; ' A Report 
on an Investigation of the Food of the Working Classes, ' liy Noel Paton and Crau- 
ford Dunlop, Brit. Med. Jour., 1904. 

CHAPTEE VI 
VEGETARIANISM 

We have seen, by our consideration of the cost of feeding, that 
the question of cost alone is decidedly in favour of a vegetarian diet, 
for both flesh-forming or proteid and energy producing material 
can be obtained at much less cost from the vegetable than the 
animal kingdom. Persons of limited income are therefore rightly 
advised to adopt a freer use of the proteid material provided in 
peas, beans, and lentils in the form of soup, puree, haricot beans, 
or other ' dish ' of the vegetarian order. They may thus materially 
improve a dietary in which the proportion of meat is deficient. 
We also saw that if a man lives upon meat alone, he must 
consume 6| pounds daily to obtain as much carbon as is re- 
quired for the production of the energy for an ordinary day's 
work ; but by consuming that quantity he would take in so much 
more proteid than he required that an excessive amount of work 
would be thrown upon his organs to deal with it. And Hkewise, 
if a man live upon bread alone, in order to obtain the necessary 



46 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

proteid for his day's use, he must consume double the amount of 
energy-producing material. Similar remarks apply to many foods, 
from which it is concluded that physiological economy is best 
served by the diet consisting of a due proportion of animal and 
vegetable materials. The physiological value of a vegetarian diet 
will be referred to again in a later chapter. 

FOOD DISEASES. 

Something has to be said on the score of health. A purely 
vegetable diet is usually productive of less evil to persons of more 
or less sedentary occupation than one consisting largely of rich 
animal food. Those who advocate the exclusive use of animal 
food adduce in support of their system the herculean strength 
and rude health of our hardy ancestors. The British aborigines, 
it is urged, were not acquainted with the cultivation of the ground ; 
but, according to Caesar, Strabo, Diodorus Siculus, and other 
writers, they lived upon flesh and milk almost entirely. In answer 
to this we must draw attention to the different habits and modes 
of existence in the present day. Animal food is undoubtedly 
more stimulating than vegetable food, even the pulses ; but an 
exclusively animal diet could not safely be indulged in by the 
majority in our day or in our climate, still less in tropical or 
Oriental countries : it is too highly stimulating, life is urged on 
too rapidly, and many diseases are a consequence of excessive 
consumption of animal food. Too much meat produces an excess 
of nitrogenous waste matters in the system, which entails much 
work upon the liver, kidneys, and other organs to eliminate it ; 
if it is not excreted, or if the proper changes in the waste materials 
do not take place, they accumulate in the system, in the blood 
and tissues, and gout, gravel, stone, kidney and liver diseases, or 
other diseases attributable to uric acid, are the result. 

The germs of disease may be communicated to man by the 
flesh of animals infected with anthrax, foot and mouth disease, 
rabies, glanders, tuberculosis. Gastric irritation sometimes 
follows eating very high game, in which an acrid fatty substance 
may be formed ; at other times ptomaine-poisoning follows the 
consumption of animal food which is tainted, or too ' high,' or 
even partially decomposed. Various parasites in meat are trans- 
missible to man, as the round and tape worm, and Trichina spiralis, 



VBGETAEIANISM 47 

which find a home within their host, as the result of eating raw 
or underdone meat containing the ova or partially-developed 
taeniae. Shell-fish, oysters, mussels, whelks, cockles, are known 
to be an active means of disseminating enteric fever. Milk is 
also the means of transmitting various diseases to the consumer, 
as enteric or scarlet fever, diphtheria and tuberculosis, besides 
other diseases due to the presence of fungi. But all these germs, 
even the taeniae, may be destroyed by heat, although it is extremely 
undesirable that milk, meat, fish or shell-fish known to be unsound 
or suspected to be contaminated by these diseases should be con- 
sumed; it is nevertheless true that they are more often transmitted 
to human beings by other means, but might be much more com- 
monly spread in this way were it not for the care taken to prevent 
the sale of unsound food, polluted milk, diseased meat, etc., and 
for the additional safeguard we have in cooking them. 

Vegetarian authors, who usually write with bias, do not take 
these precautions into sufficient consideration, nor do they range 
alongside of these facts others which show, unfortunately, that 
quite as evil diseases may and do arise from the vegetable articles 
of our food. An excess of bread, for instance, or other starchy or 
carbohydrate food from the vegetable kingdom, produces flatu- 
lence, acidity of the stomach, indigestion, congestion of the liver, 
haemorrhoids, and promotes obesity with its attendant evils. 
Sugar, too, has an enormous dietetic value as a producer of force, 
but an excess of it will produce similar evil results, especially 
catarrh of the stomach, in which the excess of mucus envelopes 
particles of other food and hinders the proper action of the gastric 
juice, whence indigestion of food and other symptoms of gastric 
catarrh ensue. 

Eating raw vegetables is undoubtedly a cause of enteric fever, 
especially the consumption of salads, lettuce, watercress, radishes, 
onions, celery, etc. ; indeed, whenever vegetables during their 
growth are irrigated with sewage containing valuable nitrogenous 
plant foods, care must be taken that such plants are not eaten 
raw, for by such means the germs of typhoid and other diseases 
may be scattered broadcast. Merely washing them is not sufficient 
to cleanse them from such germs, and vegetables from such a 
source should not knowingly be eaten raw, however nice they 
appear to the eye. Farms on which sewage is largely used as a 



48 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

means of sewage disposal are usually under municipal control, 
and only such market produce as must necessarily be boiled 
before eating them, as cabbage, beet, potatoes, turnips, swedes or 
mangolds, ought to be grown thereon. 

The consumption of unripe or over-ripe fruit is frequently 
blamed for attacks of diarrhoea or choleraic diarrhoea ; foreign 
fruit may also be a source of fevers and other diseases not 
common to temperate climates. The ingestion of hard, indigestible 
fruit, vegetables, and nuts, is the cause of much suffering in the 
form of catarrh of the stomach or intestines, diarrhoea, constipa- 
tion, or other ailments. 

That terrible disease, hydatids, is due to a minute tapeworm, 
the TcEnia echinococcus, which gains entrance to the human 
organism as the ova or partially-developed taenia upon uncooked 
vegetables — such as watercress, celery, lettuce, and other salads. 
From the ova are developed such numerous cysts as may give 
rise to a tumour or tumours of many pounds weight, necessitating 
an operation of some magnitude for their removal. The parasite, 
once it finds entrance to the body, soon gets accustomed to its 
host, and from one or two ova mother and daughter cysts may 
grow in thousands and spread to every part of the body. If 
vegetables which are to be eaten raw are laid in a mixture of salt 
and water for an hour or two previous to their consumption, the 
salt will kill such ova, as well as some other slimy things which 
may be attached to them. It is unfortunate that so simple a 
remedy will not destroy the bacteria of enteric fever. 

Actinomycosis, another dreadful disease which is obtained 
through the vegetable kingdom, is caused by the ray-fungus 
which grows upon cereals and some other vegetables. It is 
commonly contracted through eating growing corn, as by plucking 
an ear of wheat and rubbing out the grain and masticating it. 
The fungus may affect the whole alimentary canal, beginning at 
the mouth, whence it spreads to other organs. The chance of 
recovery is very remote when the fungus gets fairly established. 

Ergotism is likewise due to a fungus, O'idium abortifaciens, or 
Claviceps purpurea, which grows upon rye ; the disease is very 
common among the consumers of rye bread, or ' black bread.' 
The symptoms of ergotism are mainly painful cramp and coldness 
of the extremities, followed by dry gangrene in extreme cases. 



VEGETAKIANISM 49 

Pellagra is a wasting disease, accompanied by an erythematous 
eruption on the skin, which affects chiefly persons who live largely 
upon maize, as the inhabitants of Lombardy. The disease is due 
to degeneration in the meal, and two kinds of mould have been 
recognised as being always present in it. 

Beri-beri, a disease of the nervous system distinguished by 
wasting of the muscles and gradually increasing paralysis, is 
prevalent in foreign nations where rice is largely eaten. The 
association of rice with the origin of beri-beri has been as keenly 
disputed as that of fish with the origin of leprosy. 

Cholera and choleraic diarrhoea and dysentery are almost 
certainly conveyed into the system by food which is polluted, 
or by the evacuations of such sick persons contaminating the air 
or water which others consume. Flies and similar insects are the 
unceasing agents of disease : they constantly alight upon whatever 
takes their fancy, be it the food of man, or garbage, or the 
evacuations of a case of typhoid, cholera, or dysentery ; that flies 
are scavengers may be true, but unfortunately it is too true that 
they play a great part in disseminating disease. 

In summing up this matter, we must state that the albuminates, 
proteids, nitrogenous or flesh-forming elements in meat, milk, 
eggs, and fish, and in bread, peas, beans, lentils, and other 
vegetables, are of nearly equal nutritive value, only some of them 
are more easily digested than others. A meal of meat and its 
accompaniments requires from four to four and a half hours for 
its complete digestion, while a meal of white fish, milk, or eggs, 
is digested in half the time ; but the vegetable proteids require a 
longer time for their digestion. Now, if more animal proteid is 
eaten than is required for immediate consumption, some of it is 
stored up in the body either as proteid or fat • but it is urged 
against vegetable foods that their proteids are only used for 
current expenditure, and are not stored for future consumption. 
Animal fat is also more easily digested than the oil in vegetables. 
A diet containing animal food is more stimulating than a purely 
vegetarian diet, although most of our energy producing food 
(except fat) is derived from the vegetable kingdom. 

Concerning the necessity for vegetable food, it is well known 
that scurvy was an exceedingly common ailment in England up 
to the seventeenth century, and a heavy mortality was due to 



50 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

that cause ; also that gardening was then scarcely known, that 
most of the vegetables, such as cabbage, lettuce, celery, and others, 
were uncultivated. Since then, however, gardening has become 
common, vegetables form almost a constant portion of our diet, 
and in consequence the ravages of scurvy have become nearly 
unknown. Fresh vegetables, potatoes, and fruit, contain many 
salts which are necessary for the proper constitution of the blood 
and other fluids of the body ; if they are withheld from the food 
for a long period the blood becomes impoverished and scurvy 
results. While vegetables are necessary, an exclusive vegetarian 
diet is inconsistent with our knowledge of man's ability to 
live upon all kinds of food, that vegetable foods alone entail a 
larger amount of work on the digestive organs, and are not 
sufticiently stimulating for the active exertions which belong to 
our present civilized condition. A vegetarian diet suits some 
people better than a diet containing meat, and vice versa; some 
people feel lighter and more active immediately after a vegetarian 
meal who complain of heaviness, drowsiness, and want of energy 
after a hot dinner of meat with the usual accompaniments. It is 
a fact that the wealthy classes eat too largely and too frequently 
of meat, and they suffer in consequence from diseases which are 
little known among strict vegetarians. But there is not sufficient 
evidence to show that a vegetarian diet is productive of a greater 
duration of life than a mixed diet. 

We are rather compelled to the conclusion that the normal 
diet of man is a mixed diet of meat and vegetables and fruit ; 
that with carefully-cooked food there is little danger of infection 
or the transmission of parasites ; that excess of any kind of food 
is equally bad ; that to eat a heavy meal when one is fatigued by 
labour is bad ; that a short rest after a meal is best ; and that 
safety consists in eating moderately of easily-digested and well- 
cooked food of a mixed character, having a due proportion of the 
flesh-forming and energy-producing elements. 

PTOMAINE-POISONING. 

Ptomaines and leucomaines are substances of a proteid nature 
which resemble the powerful vegetable alkaloids in their compo- 
sition and poisonous effects. Some ptomaines are found in 
animal matter which is undergoing decomposition, such as tyro- 



PTOMAINE-POISONING 51 

toxicon in old cheese and mytilo-toxicon in shell-fish under 
certain conditions. They have also been found in pork, sausages, 
potted meat, ice-cream, mouldy bread, oysters, mussels, crabs, 
lobsters, mackerel, eels, and conger-eels. If the jelly belonging 
to any portion of food such as a pork-pie, a tin of meat or tongue, 
calves'-foot jelly, or bottle of soup, has become liquid, this is a 
sign that bacterial action has taken place in it, that ptomaines or 
tox-albumins have been developed, and that their use for food 
would be dangerous. The epidemics of food-poisoning occasionally 
reported have all had their origin in the production of ptomaines 
in the food before it was consumed. Ermenglin* says that the 
toxic ptomaines found sometimes in preserved meat, ham, game- 
pies, etc., are due to a specific micro-organism. Bacillus holuUnus, 
which secretes a soluble ptomaine called by him boluline ; it is 
intensely poisonous, but is destroyed at a temperature of 60° to 
70'' C, and the bacillus which 'produces it at 85° C, so that 
thorough cooking should prevent all danger from this source, 
provided there is no fresh infection after it is cooked. 

The symptoms of ptomaine-poisoning may develop in ten or 
fifteen minutes, or be delayed as many hours after the meal. 
Sometimes they are simple cases of urticaria or nettle-rash ; that 
is, an eruption on the skin of firm, round, or oval swellings, 
size from \ inch in diameter upwards, sometimes large pomphi 
or wheals, having a whitish centre upon a pink or reddish 
elevation, and attended with intolerable itching. There may be 
a feeling of suffocation or difficulty in breathing ; at other times 
extreme muscular weakness, numbness of the limbs, a feeble 
action of the heart, epileptiform convulsions, strychnia-like 
twitchings, or coma ; sometimes, instead, there may be sickness, 
purging, cramp of the extremities, and other choleraic symptoms. 

The most poisonous ptomaines are produced during the course 
of various diseases by the bacteria. These are called toxins — 
e.g., typho-toxin in enteric fever, tetanine in tetanus. Leuco- 
maines, albumoses, or tox-albumins, are also mainly the result of 
bacterial activity, and are undoubtedly poisonous. But some 
bodies belonging to the leucomaines are produced without 
bacterial action during animal metabolism. Such are the 
albumoses or proteoses and peptones of normal digestion, and 
* Amci'ican Druij. ami Pliarm. Record, September 10, 189'J. 

4—2 



52 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

also cholin and neurin, ■which are undoubtedly poisonous when 
they find their way into the blood and tissues. Under normal 
circumstances the system is quite capable of transforming the 
hetero- and deutero-albumose which appear at a certain stage in 
the digestion of albumin into peptone ; but if they are produced 
in excess, or the process of digestion is not completed, or they 
exist in meat when it is eaten, they cause languor and heaviness, 
and probably many troubles of defective metabolism or connected 
with liver and nervous disease ; and when the quantity of these 
albumoses is very great the symptoms of ptomaine-poisoning are 
developed. 

Certain virulent poisons of a proteid nature, normal in the 
animal which produces them, like the poison of snakes and 
spiders, belong to the toxins. On the other hand, various protec- 
tive toxins, which likewise belong to the same class, are produced 
in animals during an acute infectious disease, and are capable 
of rendering the said animal or person immune to the same 
disease for some time to come — protective immunity. It is pretty 
certain that ptomaines and leucomaines play an active part in 
most diseases of man, small portions of them floating in the 
blood and tissues during the course of it, and favour the ter- 
mination of the disease by recovery, or so profoundly influence 
the nervous and other systems as to damage the patient's prospect 
of recovery, 

THE USE OF PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD. 

The preservation of animal and vegetable foods has been the 
means of increasing our food-supply from foreign or colonial 
sources. There are many ways in which foods are preserved. 
Beef and mutton are stored in refrigerators and sent in a frozen 
condition for long journeys, to be consumed as fresh meat. Beef 
is dried in the sun to form the ' biltong ' of the Africans. Pork 
and fish are salted or preserved by being smoke-dried. Fruits 
are preserved by boiling in syrup ; they are also dried and 
candied. When an organic substance like flesh, milk, or fruit, 
is heated and maintained at a boiling temperature for a few 
minutes all bacteria and their spores are destroyed, and the 
substance when enclosed in a hermetically-sealed vessel may be 



FOOD-PRESEEVATIVES 53 

kept for years free from fermentation or putrefaction. An immense 
industry at home and abroad has arisen from the knowledge of 
this fact. Large quantities of meat, fish, fruit, and vegetables, 
are enclosed in canisters of tinned iron plate or air-tight bottles, 
and boiled for an hour or two, by which they acquire a condition 
which one imagines may be eternal. Careless tinning or bottling 
leads to disasters, and adulteration of fruit and vegetables has 
been known to cause serious poisonous symptoms or death. 
Occasionally the tin has been corroded by the juices contained 
in the food, and a chloride or other salt of tin has been formed, 
which has caused irritant poisoning when the food has been 
consumed. Owing to defects in sealin-?, putrefaction may take 
place and ptomaines be developed. 

The discovery that the heating of food in sealed vessels to the 
temperature of boiling water will preserve it indefinitely was 
made by Gay-Lussac, and the method is largely used in preparing 
food for the army and navy, and for various expeditions beyond 
the bounds of civilization. Previous to it thousands of men were 
lost from scurvy, owing to the absence of green food. Even now 
scurvy is not unknown among people who are long deprived of 
fresh food, and the conclusion has been arrived at that the very 
freshness of food as well as its purity is necessary to prevent 
disease. 

Preservatives have been used to prevent the decomposition of 
food from early times. Salt, sugar, vinegar, oil, and spirits of 
wine, are those which have longest been used. But a more 
precise knowledge of the nature of decomposition has shown that 
it can be controlled by heat, cold, and chemical substances having 
a bacteriocidal action. How frequently food is preserved by 
the use of chemical agents is shown by the fact that ' out of 
4,251 samples of food and drink analyzed at Somerset House in 
a given period, 1,659,' or more than one-third of the whole, con- 
tained preservatives. The most common in use, as shown by 
Dr. W. R. Smith, are the following : 

{a) Borax and boracic acid were found in milk, 1-3 to 9 grains 
per pint ; in cream, 10 to 97 grains ; sausages, potted meat, and 
brawn had 15 to 66 grains per pound ; butter, 18 to 65 grains ; 
margarine, 7 to 73 grains ; and bacon, 8 to 46 grains. It was also 
found in fish and fresh meat. The powder is often mixed for the 



54 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

purpose with salt, saltpetre, or carbonate of soda, and is some- 
times coloured and sold under a fanciful name. Great varia- 
tion is observable in the amount, and sometimes more is used 
than is necessary. Butter or margarine will be well kept by 
40 grains of boracic acid, with or without borax, to the pound ; 
cream by 20 grains to the pound ; and milk by 36 grains per gallon. 

{h) Salicylic acid or salicylate of soda is used in jam or jelly, 
and was found in the proportion of 1-7 to 8 grains per pound ; and 
in temperance drinks, cordials, herb-beer, cider, and foreign beer, 
from 1-5 to 8 grains per pint. Temperance drinks have salicylic 
acid in them to prevent fermentation for an indefinite time 
before consumption. Herb-beer is fermented with yeast, and 
alcohol and carbonic acid are produced, which have a preser- 
vative action. But the legal amount of alcohol is only 2 per cent, 
of proof spirit, so that salicylic acid is sometimes used to prevent 
an illegal amount of alcohol being formed in the liquid. 

(e) Sulphite of soda, of which sulphurous acid is the active 
agent, is used by game-dealers, butchers, and brewers. It has 
likewise been found in lime-juice, ginger wine, syrups, cordials, 
and foreign beer, in amounts from O'l to 4-5 grains per pint. 

(d) Formalin, which consists of a 40 per cent, solution of 
formaldehyde in water, is a powerful poison ; but it is used in 
the proportion of 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 100,000 of milk or cream. 

(e) Sulphate of copper is found in spinach and preserved peas 
to the extent of 26 grains and less per pound. 

The influence of food preservatives upon the health of the 
consumer must be considered, for it cannot be gainsaid that a large 
amount of the perishable food of cities has to travel a long 
distance and be stored for some time, wherefore some method of 
preservation is necessary. The substances used in moderation 
over a short time only may be harmless, but a prolonged use of food 
containing them may cause skin diseases and gastric and nervous 
disturbances. The fact that such preservatives as salicin, salicylic 
and boracic acid, in various combinations, exist normally in some 
plants and fruits is no proof of their innocence or freedom from 
danger to the human organism, for do not strychnia, morphia, 
and quinine, also exist in plants ? The preservatives used may be 
very feeble poisons, but their long-continued action in the body 
cannot be regarded as indifferent. With regard to formalin, it 



FOOD-PEESERVATIVES 55 

is stated by Pddeal and Fullerton that 1 in 50,000 (which is 
regarded as the minimum proportion efficient to keep milk 
wholesome for twenty-four hours) inhibits the action of the 
digestive ferments ; and for this reason, and the fact that its 
detection in such small quantity is a matter of difficulty, it is 
considered advisable by authorities that its use should be for- 
bidden to preserve milk, an article so essential to infants and 
invalids. 

The amount of sulphate of copper necessary to colour green 
peas is small ; nevertheless, it is sometimes used in excess, 
26 grains to the pound having been found. Most authorities 
consider it injurious, but Sir Lauder Brunton states that the 
small quantity of 25 to 30 milligrammes likely to be obtained 
once or twice a week with peas is innocuous. 

Neumann fed dogs with boracic acid and others with saltpetre 

in their food. The dogs which had saltpetre lost weight, but those 

which had boracic acid gained, which he concluded to prove that 

it did not interfere with their power of assimilation. Chittenden 

found that boracic acid, even up to 1 per cent., increased rather 

than checked the action of saliva ; that it had no effect on 

proteid metabolism or general nutrition, and no influence on the 

putrefactive processes in the bowel ; that doses of 3 grammes a 

day were so rapidly absorbed and eliminated that none could be 

found if the animal were killed thirty-sis hours after the last 

dose. He therefore concluded that the continuous use of small 

doses of borax and boracic acid in food did not affect the health 

injuriously. Liebrich also states that meat preserved by boracic 

acid did not act injuriously. Tunnicliffe and Kosenheim agree 

that boracic acid favours the action of saliva, has no influence 

over the curdling ferment, favours gastric digestion, but inhibits 

intestinal (pancreatic) digestion. Their general conclusion was 

that small doses, up to 1 gramme per diem, did not influence 

proteid metabolism or assimilation in either healthy or delicate 

children ; that borax and boracic acid are quickly eliminated, 

no cumulative action occurs, and they do not affect the general 

health. Evidence on the other side, by Rideal and Fullerton, 

says that 1 in 2,000, or 36 grains of boracic acid in a gallon of 

milk, inhibits the action of the salivary and pancreatic ferments 

in the digestion of starch. Mann states that boracic acid causes 



56 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

diarrha'a, and Handford that 30 grains to the gallon produced 
delirious symptoms in infants. 

A large amount of evidence was given to the Departmental 
Committee of the Local Government Board by experts, including 
HaHiburton, Starling, Mann, Stevenson, Corfield, and other 
eminent authorities, showing the danger of preservatives in food, 
and that they should be prohibited, especially in those intended 
for infants and sick persons. The Committee thereafter made 
the following recommendations : 

1. That formalin or formaldehyde be absolutely prohibited 
from use in food or drink. 

2. That salicylic acid be not used in greater proportion than 
1 grain per pint of liquid or pound of solid food. 

3. That the use of preservative or colouring matter in milk 
be an offence in the United Kingdom under the Sale of Food and 
Drugs x\ct. 

4. That the only preservative allowed to be used in cream be 
boracic acid = to 25 per cent. 

5. That the only preservative it shall be lawful to use in 
butter or margarine be boracic acid or borax and boracic acid 
to 0-5 per cent. 

6. That all kinds of chemical preservatives be prohibited from 
use in dietetic preparations for infants and sick persons. 

7. That the use of copper salts be prohibited for colouring 
peas. 

References: 'Vegetarianism,' W. Tibbies, Joiir. State Jlfed., June, 1904. 
Foster's ' Physiology,' vol. ii. Jour. State Med., January, 1902. Uticl., April, 
1902. Brit. Food Jour., 1899, i., 1-32. Amer. Jour. Physiol., 1898, 1-39. 
Circular 1.5, U.S. Agricultural Department. 

CHAPTEE VII 
THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 

The Infant should be fed from birth with the milk of its own 
mother. It is unfortunate that an increasing number of women, 
from various causes, do not nurse their children, and the result 
is that artificial substitutes for woman's milk are used. It is an 
exceeding great pity when this happens from caprice or from the 
inconvenience which women attach to their having to suckle their 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 57 

baby, because it detains them at home or causes them to return 
sooner than their wont. If each mother could be made to under- 
stand that her baby would die if it were not fed from her breast, 
there would speedily he a large increase in the number of breast- 
fed children ; and when this comes about there will be a great 
diminution in the rate of infant mortality. Mothers must be 
taught how much healthier babies are when fed by the breast 
than when they are fed by a bottle. They will then see that 
their own health is built up, that they maintain their own body 
in a proper condition, and as a result many more women will be 
able to feed their babies with their own milk than do so at the 
present time. Unfortunately, many mothers give up the attempt 
to feed their children when continued effort would result in 
much more milk being produced. If the secretion is deficient 
in quantity or quality, or the milk disagrees with the baby, the 
cause should be sought in the mother. Perhaps she is not taking 
the proper quantity and kind of food, or she is unable to digest 
and assimilate it, or she does not drink enough; or she has 
constipation, leucorrhoea, anaimia, or some other ailment, which, 
if corrected, will probably increase the quantity and quality of 
the milk secreted. A small quantity of milk by no means proves 
the quality to be defective. Let the woman who is about 
to become a mother lead a rational life, keep early hours, be 
properly clothed, eat only plain and nourishing food, and plenty 
of it, take plenty to drink, attend to the condition of her stomach, 
bowels, and kidneys, and she will have the happy result of a 
better supply of good milk, and there will be less necessity for 
artificial means of feeding her infant.^ ^ 

It must be admitted that there are some cases in which it 
is absolutely impossible for the mother to feed her baby. The 
proper course then is to obtain the assistance of a wet-nurse or 
foster-mother. There is no substitute for mother's milk equal to 
that of a foster-mother. The practice of employing such has 
fallen into desuetude since the introduction of the bottle and 
other means of artificial feeding have become so fashionable. 
The foster-mother should be carefully selected, and there is 
usually plenty of time to do so. She must be healthy, and not 
be the subject of any disease or constitutional taint. The main 
objection is the cost. 



58 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 







Analyses of 


Human Milk. 






Percen- 
tage. 


Analysis given by T^ 


NNER. 

Average. 


Analy.sis by Leeds. 


Wurtz'.s 
Average. 


Total 
Aveiage. 


Fair. 


Dark. 


Min. 


Max. 

1 


Average. 


Fat ... 
Pro te ids 
Milk- 
sugar 
Salts ... 


3-55 
1-00 

5-85 
0-40 


5-48 1 2-69 
1-62 ; 3-92 

7-12 4-36 
0-45 , 0-13 


3-90 
2-18 

5-78 
0-33 


2-11 

0-85 

5-40 
0-13 


6-89 

4-86 

7-92 
0-35 


4-01 
2-05 

6-99 
0-21 


4-06 
1-67 

7-05 
0-21 


4-06 
2-36 

5-26 
0-26 


Total 

solids 
Water 


10-80 
89-20 


14-67 , 11-10 
85-33 88-90 


1219 
87-81 


8-49 


17-02 

1 


13-26 


12-98 
87-02 


11-94 
88-06 



When there is a deficiency of mother's milk for the baby, let 
the mother have plenty of oatmeal, milk, stout, or extract of 
malt. Feed the baby from both breasts at once, and let each 
alternate meal consist of the milk of another animal — cow, ass, 
mare, ewe, or goat, cow's being most readily obtained. Wynter 
Blyth^ and Eichmond* give the following percentage composition 
by weight of these milks *: 



Composition of 
Milk. 


1 
Human. 


Cow's. 


Ass's. Goat's. 


Mare's. 


Human. 


Goat's. 


Ass's. 


Fat 




2-90 


3-50 


1-02 


4-20 


2-50 


1-98 


3-78 


1-18 


Proteids : 




















Casein 




2-40 


3-98 


1-09 


3-00 


2-19 


1-75 


' 4-10 


1-74 


Albumin, 


etc. 


0-67 


0-94 


0-80 


0-70 


0-15 






1 


Milk-sugar 




5-87 


4-00 


5-50 ; 4-00 


5-50 


6-40 


4-49 


6-86 


Salts ... 




0-16 


0-70 


0-42 0-56 


0-50 


0-26 


0-87 
13-24 


0-45 
10-23 


Total solids 


12-00 


13-12 


8-82 . 12-46 


11-20 


10-39 


Water 




88-00 


86-88 


91-17 87-54 


88-80 




1 





Fat, proteid, and carbohydrate yield, when fully oxidized, so 
many calories or units of heat per gramme. The calorie-value of 
human and cow's milk may therefore be compared : 

Blyth's Analysis. 

Human : Fat ... 2 90 x 9 3 = 26-970 calories. 
Proteid 307 x 4-1 = 12587 „ 
Lactose 5-87x4-1 = 24 067 ,, 

Therefore 100 grammes of human milk will yield 63624 calories. 
Cows .-Fat ...3-50x9-3 = 32-550 calories. 
Proteid 4-92x4 1 = 20172 ,, 
Lactose 4-00x4-1 = 16-400 ,, 

The same amount of cow's milk will yield 69-122 calories. 



The Analyst, vol. xxi., p. 89, and xxx. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 59 

Heubner points out in his work upon Dietetics that, being fed 
with milk yielding an approximately equal number of calories, 
the child who receives the calories in the form of mother's milk 
will develop a much greater energy of growth than a child who 
is fed upon cow's milk or other substitute. He proves that better 
results may be obtained with a smaller number of calories derived 
from mother's milk than with a greater quantity in the form of 
artificial food ; that in artificial feeding energy is wasted in the 
process of assimilation, consequently it cannot be utilized in 
growth and building up the tissues. The additional work to be 
performed and the resulting increased consumption of calories is 
explained by the greater glandular and digestive activity required. 
Wasserman also proved that the assimilation of the milk of 
another animal entails greater secretory activity than the assi- 
milation of milk of its own species. Neither should milk used 
for infants or invalids be skimmed, for by this means it loses not 
only fat, but lecithin. Heating milk up to 60° C. (140° F.) for 
half an hour also causes a loss of lecithin, which is consequently 
poor in organic phosphoric acid and defective as food. 

THE INFANT FROM BIRTH TO SIX MONTHS. 

The child's food ought to consist wholly of milk — the mother's or 
nurse's, if possible. If woman's milk cannot be obtained, that of 
the cow is the substitute which can most readily and regularly be 
obtained. Many attempts have been made to bring cow's to an 
approximate composition with human milk. From the results of 
many analyses, it is found that the milk of no two animals of the 
same or any other species agrees exactly in composition, nor do 
they correspond with human milk. In cow's milk, for instance, the 
proteids and salts are in too large a proportion when compared 
with human milk, and the casein is curdled during digestion in large 
masses of a tough and leathery character. In goat's milk, which 
is similar to cow's, the fat is in excess, and the casein likewise 
forms hard masses. Ass's milk is deficient in both proteid and 
fat, and, although its casein is precipitated in small flocculent 
masses capable of easy digestion, it is not sufficiently nutritive 
to allow of its being used for a long period.^ The proteid in the 
curd of cow's milk is mainly casein ; that of woman's consists 
largely of lact-albumin, which constitutes the principal dilference 



60 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

in their digestibility. The sugar of milk is lactose, which is 
obtainable at a chemist's in the form of a white, dry powder. It 
is not so sweet as cane-sugar, and does not ferment or give rise to 
acidity or catarrh, like the latter does when an excess is contained 
in the food. It should be used whenever the addition of sugar to 
infants' food is desirable. 

During the digestion of milk it is curdled by rennin of the 
gastric juice, and then peptonized. The curds of human, ass's, 
and mare's milk are small, flocculent, and easily digested and 
assimilated ; but that of cow's milk is deposited in masses like 
new cheese or putty, which are not so easily digested. Cow's 
milk, therefore, is liable to cause pain, flatulence, and diarrhoea, 
and some of the curds may pass through the bowels undigested. 
This is a great defect, and detracts greatly from the value of 
cow's milk as a food for infants. Many things have been used to 
prevent the formation of such large and tough curds. The best 
method is to mix the milk with a decoction of barley, of coarse 
oatmeal, or of gum acacia. These things should be thoroughly 
cooked by long boiling or stewing, and the liquid strained away 
from the residue may then be advantageously used to dilute the 
milk instead of plain water. The dense clotting of cow's milk is 
obviated by these liquids preventing the particles of casein from 
coming so closely together. Lime-water also acts in the same 
way, but it also has the effect of neutralizing the acidity of cow's 
milk, which distinguishes it from human. It should be added 
when the temperature of the milk is about 96° F., or just warm 
enough to drink. The addition of starchy materials, such as 
arrowroot, cornflour, biscuit -powder, baked flour, or other 
farinaceous foods, acts in the same way, mechanically prevent- 
ing the formation of large, hard curds. This effect can be the 
only justification for the use of such foods in the early months 
of life, for the baby cannot digest them at such an early age. In 
town, probably a mixture of equal parts of cow's milk and water, 
with the addition of a little sugar, would make milk approxi- 
mating in character to human milk, and these proportions are 
recommended for use. Milk should always be given to the child 
at a degree or two below blood heat — say, 96° F. 

Pure country milk differs from the average milk delivered in 
town, and will bear a greater addition of water. The following 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 



61 



dilution of it is recommended : For an infant under one month old, 
mix together 1 part of pure country milk with 2 parts of water, 
adding a teaspoonful of cream and a little sugar to each meal ; 
for children from six tcecks to four months old, mix equal parts 
of milk and water ; and for those above four months, 2 parts of 
milk and 1 part of water, always adding a little sugar and cream. 

The quantity of food which a child should have necessarily 
varies with its age. During the first iveek the infant should have 
two tablespoonfuls every two hours— ten feedings in twenty-four 
hours ; during the second week give three tablespoonfuls every two 
hours — ten feedings in twenty-four hours ; during the third and 
fourth loeeh give four tablespoonfuls every two hours— ten feedings 
in twenty-four hours ; in fifth and sixth week, add by degrees two 
more tablespoonfuls to each meal, and gradually lengthen the 
intervals of feeding to three hours, so that the number of meals 
becomes eight in twenty-four hours. 

During the second month give six to eight tablespoonfuls every 
two and a half hours, making 1} to 1^ pints a day ; during the 
third and fourth month give eight to ten tablespoonfuls every 
three hours — total, 1^ to If pints a day ; during the fifth and 
sixth month give ten to twelve tablespoonfuls every three hours — 
total, 2 pints a day. 

Dr. A. A. Mussen*' has formulated the following modification 
and amount of cow's milk for infants of various ages : 



Age of Child. 


Quantity for 
Twenty-four Hours. 




Milk. 


Water. 


One to two weeks 

Two to eight weeks 

Two to three months 

Three to five months 

Five to seven months, and over 


65 ounces 
134 ,. 
20f =, 
30 ,, 
36 ,, 


6| ounces 
13i ., 
lOh „ 
15" ,, 
12 „ 


Each gallon should 
have added to it : 
24 ounces of cream 
14 ounces of sugar 
J ounce of salt 



Artificial Human Milk. — ^The great trouble with cow's milk 
is the formation of firm, tough curds, which are difficult of 
digestion. This may be overcome by clotting the milk with 
rennet, straining ofi" the whey, breaking down the curd, and 
rubbing it through a sieve, and finally mixing the two together 
again. But to render cow's milk most like human, the casein 



62 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

must be reduced in quantity and modified in consistency, the 
carbotiydrate increased, and the proportion of fat altered ; the 
latter may be increased to suit the individual case. Artificial 
milk is usually made directly from cow's milk by the addition of 
cream, milk, sugar, and water. Several methods are given below : 

(a) A simple method is to dilute J pint of milk with h pint of 
whey ; add three teaspoonfuls of sugar of milk, strain, and add 
also two tablespoonfuls of cream, 

(b) Frankland's Formula.'' — Take of skimmed milk, J pint; fresh 
cow's milk, | pint; cream, two teaspoonfuls ; milk-sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls. Let the skimmed milk be warmed to about 95° F., 
and curdled by rennet. After fifteen minutes break up the curd 
very finely, strain it, let the liquid portion be boiled, and add to 
it the fresh cow's milk, the cream, and sugar. 

(c) Modification of Botch's Formula. — Milk, 1 ounce ; cream, 
1^ ounces ; milk-sugar, 3| drachms, dissolved in 4 ounces of 
water ; lime-water, 1 ounce ; add the lime-water last, when the 
liquid is about 96° F., and ready to drink. 

{d) Coulier^ gives the following proportions : Cow's milk, 300; 
water, 339*5 ; cream, 13 ; lactose, 15 ; calcium phosphate, 
1-5 grammes. 

In the above formula the clotting power of casein is modified 
by the method of preparation. 

(e) The Dresden method'' of preparing artificial human milk is 
based on the average composition of human milk : Take the 
white of one fresh egg, mix it slowly and carefully with 13 drachms 
of milk-sugar, and stir into it gradually 30 ounces of water ; strain 
it through linen into 1 pint of new milk, and mix by agitation. 

(/) Claque gives the following formula i^*^' New milk, 30 
ounces ; cream, If ounces ; milk-sugar, 1\ ounces ; water, 
18 ounces. The mixture has the following percentage : Casein, 
2-7; butter, 3-8 ; milk-sugar, 5-0; salts, 0-5; water to 100. 

{g) Soxhlet^^ gives the following formula for sterilized 
humanized milk : New milk, 30 ounces ; cream, 2 ounces ; milk- 
sugar, 1 ounce 5 drachms ; water, 20 ounces. Dissolve the 
sugar in the water, and mix all together. Put it into bottles 
filled to the shoulder only ; place them on the tray of a fish- 
kettle in water over a fire ; allow them to boil for half an hour, 
BO that the expansion of the milk may be complete ; then cork 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 63 

them, and boil for half an hour. The composition is : Casein, 
2-6 per cent. ; fat, 3-4 ; sugar, 4-8. 

The feeding of infants in hot weather is frequently a ditiicult 
matter, especially in large towns where there is a difficulty in 
obtaining reliable milk. Milk is often sent long railway journeys 
before it reaches the consumer, and it is sometimes polluted by 
the unclean hands of milkers, or strainers, or cans, or by putting 
it in cans which have been washed with impure water ; and the 
common method of distribution in large towns is a means of 
hastening fermentation and degeneration. If impure or sour 
milk be given to the baby it will cause vomiting, diarrhoea, or 
gastro-enteric catarrh, which may end fatally. Exceptional care 
must be taken that the bottle is kept scrupulously clean. For 
this purpose a bottle of the simplest character is the best — just a 
glass vessel with a teat over one end and a stopper at the other. 
The long tube and complicated fittings so long in vogue could 
never be kept clean. This is the time when sterilized milk is 
useful. It should be sterilized as soon as possible after milking. 
A simple method is as follows : Put the milk into clean bottles 
and cork them loosely, with a wire or cord over the cork ; let the 
bottles be now put into a vessel of water and boiled for twenty 
minutes ; at the end of the time take them out, and fix the cork 
in firmly. By the application of heat all bacteria are destroyed, 
but only enough milk for one day's supply should be boiled 
at once. Large dairy companies undertake to supply such milk 
from their farms. Milk boils at 233° F., but it may be pasteurized 
by keeping it at a temperature of 176° to 185° F. for about half 
an hour, and this is considered by many authorities to be 
sufficient cooking and protection. 

Sometimes it is necessary to stop all milk food during a bad 
attack of diarrhoea, vomiting, or gastro-enteric catarrh. Its place 
must then be supplied by albumin-water, made by beating up the 
white of an egg in l pint of sweetened water and adding a little 
salt ; chicken, mutton, or veal broth freed from fat, raw meat- 
juice, or other meat-juice and water, may also be given. 
Albumin-water is the best of these, but even that is not a typical 
food, and the others are very deficient in nourishment, and are, 
-therefore, only temporary foods. 

The proof that a child is thriving is best established by its 



64 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

increasing in weight from week to week, and its average increase 
should be 1 pound per month. The same scales and similar 
clothing should always be used. A written report ought to be 
kept. Girls are a little lighter than boys. 
The average weight of a healthy male child 



At birth is 6*8 pounds. 

At one month is 74 ,, 
At two montlis is 84 ,, 
At three mouths is 9 ■ 6 , , 



At six months is 12-4 pounds. 
At nine montlis is 15 8 ,, 
At twelve months is 18 8 



We are living in an age when artificial foods and modifications 
of cow's milk made in the chemical laboratory are held out as 
being quite as safe and satisfactory as human milk. They are 
not, and never can he made, so satisfactory as the milk of a healthy 
woman. The people who try to prove that bottle-feeding is as 
good as, nay, preferable to, breast-feeding do not realize the 
enormous death-rate amongst artificially -fed children as com- 
pared with that of children who are fed with a woman's milk ; 
nor do they realize the immense amount of non-fatal sickness 
among artificially-fed children, mainly of the nature of marasmus, 
scurvy, rickets, and diseases of the alimentary canal. There is a 
good deal of talk at the present time about " the degeneration of 
the race " and means for improving it ; but inasmuch as a large 
basis for the degeneration consists of the artificial feeding of 
young infants, it is at this point where improvement must be 
urged, for we may date from this period many of the causes of 
our young men and women growing up weak and debilitated, of 
stunted growth and weak vitality, and unfitted for the race in life 
as compared with the stronger and healthier offspring of a 
woman who has led a normal life, and who has in consequence 
given her child human milk of good quality, and laid for it a 
good foundation upon which the superstructure of manhood and 
womanhood is to be built. 

THE DIET OF AN INFANT FROM SIX TO TWELVE 
MONTHS OLD. 

The quantity of food must be increased with the child's age and 
growth. In the fifth and sixth month it requires about 2 pints in 
twenty-four hours ; in the seventh and eighth it should have ten or 
twelve tabiespoonfuls every three hours, or 2 to 2^ pints a day ; 
in the ninth and tenth each meal should be 8 or 9 ounces — that is' 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 65 

sixteen or eighteen tablespoonfuls about every four hours, or six 
meals a day, with a total of 2^ to 2| pints ; in the eleventh and 
twelfth each meal may be h pint, twenty tablespoonfuls, making 
a total of 3 pints in twenty-four hours. Atone year the daily diet 
should include 35 to 40 ounces of milk— say 2 pints — whicn 
may be mixed with various articles, as biscuit-powder, rusk, fine 
oatmeal or porridge, baked tlour, semolina, arrowroot, patent 
malted or other farinaceous food, and a little milk-pudding, egg, 
i^ravy, beef-tea, mutton, veal, or chicken broth, and a very little 
bread, may be given in suitable proportions to vary the diet. 

A little variation in the diet maij begin to he made at six months 
of age, but it must be done gradually. A child cannot digest food 
containing starch until the secretion of salivary and pancreatic 
fluids begins ; these secretions do not contain the digestive 
ferments at first, and when they begin to appear, the proportion 
is small.* It is not until the child has got several teeth that the 
saliva is sufiiciently active to do any good ; it is therefore unsafe 
to add starchy or farinaceous material to the diet until then. 
Then we may allow at first a single meal a day of bakcsd fiour, 
semolina, fine oatmeal, or a patent food. Bread and potato must 
not be given at this early age ; they contain too much starch, and 
are responsible for many digestive troubles in infants. Now, 
when flour is submitted to heat by baking it in an oven tho 
starch granules are burst asunder and some of the starch is 
converted into dextrin, by which means it is more readily digested 
than bread ; hence baked flour is preferable to brea 1-pap or 
mashed potato. Oatmeal porridge made of fine oatmeal is more 
valuable really than flour, being richer in proteid, fat, and iron 
salts. It must be cooked slowly for about four hours. 

Baked flour or oatmeal is prepared thus : Spread the meal 
thinly upon a dish, put it in a slow oven to bake, and stir it occa- 
sionally until the whole is a biscuit colour ; break it into a 
powder with a rolling-pin or pestle and mortar, pass it through a 

* If there is any scientific excuse for the use of the hard rubber pad which 
teething children are given to bite and exercise their jaws upon, it is that it 
encourages a flow of saliva. That abomination called a ' dummy-teat ' has no 
excuse for its existence. On the other hand, it deludes the child into imagining 
that it is getting some food, and the constant sucking causes acidity of tlie 
stomach, flatulence, indigestion, pain, colic, and other evil consec^uences. The 
folly of giving such an article to an infant a few days old must be evident to any 
intelligent person. 

5 



66 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

sieve, and keep the tine powder in a covered tin ready for use ; 
reject the coarse particles. When it is required, mix a tea- 
spoonful with as much sugar and a httle salt into a smooth paste 
with water, and gradually add four tablespoonfuls of water ; 
pour upon it ^ pint of boiled milk; stir it briskly ; boil it for ten 
minutes. It is ready when cool enough to drink. 

Malted foods have a saving grace which prevents their banish- 
ment along with bread, rice, potato, and other farinaceous foods, 
from the child's dietary, for malt contains an enzyme {diastase) 
by means of which it will convert its own weight of starch 
into sugar. Malted foods may therefore be given earlier in life 
than the aforesaid substances. Of course, milk is not by any 
means replaced by malt, and will be mixed with the food 
according to directions given. In some foods of this class there 
is no starch, the carbohydrate being represented only by milk- 
sugar, malcose, and dextrin, which may, therefore, be given from 
early days, mixed with cow's milk, if the mother's milk is 
deficient or absent. 

At the age of about nine months the child may have a table- 
spoonful or two of beef-tea, mutton, veal, or chicken broth, or a 
tablespoonful of gravy from a joint, with a little bread or dry 
toast soaked in it, or about a quarter of a well-whipped egg may 
bu given in milk every other day. If these meat-juices or broths 
cause diarrhoea, or otherwise disagree, which they are at first apt 
to do, they should only be given occasionally and in smaller 
quantity until toleration is established. 

Very few children are fed properly ; they are too often 
encouraged to seek bits from nurse's or mother's plate, which is 
the greatest possible mistake. It is very dangerous to feed 
children with odds and ends of bread-and-butter, biscuit, bun, 
potato, banana, grapes, and other fruit or substances, at such an 
early age ; it is almost certain to end in disaster, although, it is 
true, some children will thrive on anything. 

THE FOOD OF A CHILD FROM ONE TO TWO YEARS OF AGE, 

It is estimated that at eighteen months old a child requires the 
following proportion of the dietetic proximate principles : Pro- 
teid, 1 part; fat, 1-5 parts; carbohydrate, 8-5 parts; and the total is 
about three-tenths of the food of a man doing ordinary work. It 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 67 

should consist of 2 or 3 pints of milk a day, made up with 
a patent food, oatmeal, milk-pudding, a little bread-and-milk, and 
milk to drink. By this means the large proportion of carbohydrate 
is readily supplied from the starch and sugar they contain. 
Potato ought to be given, or soup in which a fresh vegetable, such 
as carrot, parsnip, turnip, or celery, has been boiled once every day, 
to supply the organic salts and the fresh juices which are so neces- 
sary for their antiscorbutic properties. At this age we may also 
give each day a little fresh fruit, as orange, grape, banana, or 
baked apple, taking great care to remove skin and pips. The 
value of fruit, like vegetables, is almost entirely due to the salts 
contained in them, which are so necessary for the proper con- 
stitution of the blood and tissues. It should not be forgotten 
that babies require something to drink besides milk ; the latter 
does not sufficiently quench their thirst, and the child is apt to 
become thirsty, fretful, and feverish, or be constipated. Cold 
water is the best drink for babies, and a tablespoonful or two 
should be given once or twice a day ; it flushes the tissues and 
washes out debris which may be a cause of fretfulness and 
feverishness. Constipation is often remedied by draughts of 
water ; if it is not, the food should be varied ; give less bread 
and other starchy food, more oatmeal and fruit, and use manna, 
treacle, honey, or Demerara sugar, as a sweetening material. 

At eighteen months the daily dietary should be similar to the 
following — Breakfast, 8 a.m. : Oatmeal porridge, with 8 or 10 
ounces of milk. Lunch, 11 a.m. : Bread-and-milk or patent food, 
6 or 8 ounces of milk. Dinner, 2 p.m. : Soup or gravy with bread, 
a little potato, vegetable marrow or cauliflower, a little very 
finely cut meat or minced tish, milk pudding or custard. Tea, 
6 p.m. : As breakfast. Milk or water to drink at each meal. 

At two years, or when the child has got all its teeth, the dietary 
may be similar to the following — Breakfast : Milk i pint as porridge 
or bread-and-milk, a little bacon fat or boiled egg. Dinner : Soup 
which has had vegetables boiled in it, 2 ounces of boiled fish or 
minced meat, potato, cauliflower, vegetable marrow or spinach, 
milk pudding, breadcrumb pudding, water to drink. Tea : Milk 
^ pint as porridge or bread-and-milk, bread-and-butter 5 ounces, 
jam, treacle, fruit. 

The above two dietaries give a selection by which the character 

5—2 



68 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of the food may approximate to that of the adult. The transition 
must be by gradual and easy stages : children are unable to digest 
heavy food, 

RICKETS AND SCURVY. 

Before closing this chapter attention should be drawn to the 
frequency of ailments among young children which arise from 
errors in feeding during early life. It is the greatest possible 
mistake to suppose that anything which is soft enough for the 
toothless gums of children is suitable food ; or to imagine that 
bread-and-milk, arrowroot, biscuits, sponge-cakes, and many similar 
things, are digested as well as other foods just because they are 
soft. Even some patent foods are not correct ; they contain too 
much starch, and not enough fat and proteid or flesh-forming food, 
and the salts required for the blood and tissues are deficient. 
Flour, which contains 70 per cent, of starch, is the basis of many 
farinaceous foods, and, like sago, arrowroot, and semolina, contains 
too much starch in proportion to the proteid ; consequently the 
child is gradually starved. Thousands of cliildrcii are starved on 
starch, though they appear to be abundantly fed, because the food 
is deficient in proteids and salts. This is a prolific source of 
rickets. Another point in the causation of rickets and scurvy in 
infants is the want of freshness in the food, be it milk or other 
article. Freshness is as essential as purity. Condensed and 
sterilized milk lack the antiscorbutic properties of fresh cow's 
milk or human milk, and do not give life and vitality like them. 
When condensed or sterilized milk is used the infants, even of 
wealthy people, sometimes suffer from the old-fashioned scurvy, 
which used to be common, and is even now sometimes seen among 
adults who are deprived of fresh food and vegetables for a long time. 

Cases of scurvy-rickets present a combination of the symptoms 
of both complaints. The child loses colour, is weak, languid, 
drowsy, and apathetic ; the little mite may have swollen and 
spongy gums, and usually has flying pains in the loins, limbs, or 
joints, and indurated swellings in various parts of the body, such 
as the front of the legs, behind the knee, or about the elbow, due 
to haemorrhage beneath the periosteal covering of the bone or deep 
fascia. The ends of the bones may be swollen, and occasionally 
crepitus indicates a separation of the end from the shaft. The 
absociation of rickets with the foregoing symptoms of scurvy is 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 69 

indicated by the child being very restless at night ; he throws off 
the bedclothes ; the bead sweats very freely, and he tosses it 
about and rubs it upon the pillow so much as to cause a bare 
patch at the back of it ; the limbs are tender, and the child 
screams when picked up. A careful examination may reveal 
other signs of rickets, as thickening of the ends of bones, par- 
ticularly of the epiphyses of the radius, ulna, or tibia, which 
causes the joints to appear swollen ; the ribs may be beaded ; 
there is a delay of some months in cutting the teeth ; the bones 
of the head do not grow and close the fontanelles as soon as 
usual ; the child is either unable to stand, or his legs become 
' bowed ' by his attempts to do so, and if he creeps much about 
the floor the bones of his arms may become correspondingly bent. 

The prevention and cure of the disease are the same — viz., to 
feed the child with good fresh cow's milk, diluted with one-third 
of plain water, barley-water, oatmeal-water, or lime-water, and 
always adding cream and sugar, as before recommended in early 
feeding of infants. The following is thought to be enough for a 
child of nine months for a day's supply : Take fresh cow's milk, 
15 ounces ; cream, 5 ounces ; water, 15 ounces ; lime-water, 
5 ounces ; sugar of milk, three or four teaspoonfuls. Let the 
milk, cream, water, and sugar, be boiled together for two or three 
minutes to sterilize it ; cool it quickly, add the lime-water when 
only warm, stir well together ; bottle it and keep in a cool place ; 
warm each meal when it is wanted. This will make five meals 
of 8 ounces each, which should be given at three and a half or 
four hours apart. Give in addition one meal a day of 'vshipped- 
up egg, gravy, or broth, in which a vegetable has been boiled, 
making six meals in twenty-four hours. 

If the child is a year old, he should have potato soup or a 
small steamed potato made into gruel with milk. A little 
vegetable marrow, baked apple, one or two crushed strawberries, 
a teaspoonful or two of orange juice or other fruit juice, should 
also be given once a day. 

The child will be more comfortable, his body cooler and less 
painful, and he will sleep better upon a hair-mattress than a 
feather-bed. His sleeping-gown should be so long that he cannot 
uncover his legs. His bedroom must be well ventilated, but free 
from draughts. Let him have a daily bath of salt-water, followed 



70 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

by gentle friction of the entire body ; be taken into the open air 
every day in a perambucot, providing it is neither damp nor 
foggy. A cold, dry wind is not so deleterious if the child is well 
wrapped up as damp or fog. He should be discouraged from 
attempts to stand or walk until the bones become firmer. The 
parent need not be over-anxious about existing curvatures, for it 
is quite probable that they will very largely disappear about the 
period of puberty, when Nature very wisely remodels the bones. 

FEEDING OF CHILDREN AFTER THE PERIOD OF INFANCY. 

The feeding of children is an exceedingly important matter, 
because the processes of growth and metabolism are going on 
very actively. 

Metabolism is the process by which the physiological balance 
of the healthy organism is maintained. Through it the elements 
of our food are assimilated and converted into living flesh and 
blood. Under its influence are eliminated the waste materials of 
the tissues, the blood is purified, and a healthy action of the 
glands and organs maintained. By it the body is built up, animal 
fuel is stored for purposes of combustion, and the potential energy 
of the food is converted into the kinetic manifestations of heat, 
muscular power, nerve force, and all the other manifestations of 
a living organism. Metabolism is, therefore, constructive and 
destructive, and each of these processes is exhibited more actively 
in children and growing youths than in adults or elderly people. 
For this reason children require an abundance of food, and it is 
estimated that the daily dietary of children from ten to fifteen 
years of age should contain — proteid 79, fat 35, and carbohydrate 
251 grammes per diem.* Atwater states the proportion of a man's 
food required by children at various ages to be as follows : 

A child under two years requires 0"3 of the food of a man doing 
ordinary work. 

A child of three to five years requires 0*4 of the food of a man 
doing ordinary work. 

A child of six to nine years requires 0'5 of the food of a man 
doing ordinary work. 

* Canierer's dietary, which is considered sufficient for a youth of sixteen years, 
includes — proteid, 75 ; fat, 42 ; and carbohydrate, .325 grammes per diem, 
yielding energy equal to 2,040 calories.^- 



THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 71 

A child of ten to thirteen years requires 0-6 of the food of a 
man doing ordinary work. 

A girl of fourteen to sixteen years requires 0-7 of the food of a 
man doing ordinary work. 

A boy of fourteen to sixteen years requires 0-8 of the food of a 
man doing ordinary work. 

Very erroneous ideas have prevailed as to the amount and 
quality of food which is required by growing children, and there 
can be little doubt that one of the chief causes of degeneracy 
among young people is to be found in the insufficient food which 
many of them get during this important period of their life. 
Children digest quickly, and their respiratory activity is very 
great, even when they are at rest ; for this reason they should 
be allowed about as much carbohydrate as an adult, and an 
ample supply (about three-quarters of the amount allowed for an 
adult) of proteid is necessary for their tissue formation. The 
latter can be derived from any of the foods in the nitrogenous 
class — e.g., meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, peas, beans, lentils, and 
others — the cost of which varies, vegetable being cheaper than 
animal proteid. We therefore highly commend the use of peas, 
beans, lentils, and haricot beans in the form of soup, puree, or as 
a more solid repast when economy has to be practised ; but it is 
considered that they cannot altogether replace meat, fish, and 
milk. With regard to milk, also, ib is a most valuable diet for 
children ; but there is in it a most remarkable deficiency of iron, 
which is so necessary for making blood : hence milk must not be 
used for totally replacing meat, but rather to supplement it. 
Eggs contain more iron than milk, and are useful for that reason. 
There is scarcely any ordinary article of food so rich in iron as 
oatmeal, and its mixture with milk makes an almost perfect food, 
and is of the greatest value for growing children. Green vegetables 
are very necessary to children, and they contain the iron- bearing 
chlorophyll as well as salts essential for the blood and tissues. 
Carbohydrates are very necessary in abundance, together with 
fat, to assist in forming the young tissues, and to supply the 
carbon which will be oxidized during their great metabolic 
activity ; for this they may be allowed as much bread-and-butter 
or other fat as they can eat in reason, with jam, marmalade, 
honey, or treacle.^^ 



72 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

As children digest quickly, the intervals between their meals 
should not be very lon^r. If, for instance, they have breakfast at 
8 a.m. and dinner at 1 p.m., they should liave a lunch of milk 
with bread and jam about 11 o'clock, their tea at 4 p.m., and 
supper about 7 o'clock. Children of ten years should be in bed 
by 7 or 8 p.m., and up to fifteen years they ought never to be up 
after 10 p.m. 

When writing upon the causes of the degeneration of the i-ace, 
Dr. Niven said that the gain in wealth to the community by 
passing children on to the working period in a condition of 
physical efficiency would be so enormous as to quite justify the 
additional immediate burden upon the rates which would be 
involved if poor children were fed at school at the public cost, 
which he considers they ought to be. ' He estimates that a child 
of seven years requires daily 62*5 grammes of proteid and 1,750 
calories of energy for full efficiency, to supply which he gives the 
following three meals as a sample of how such food may be 
provided economically for children in Board or Council schools: 

First meal : Consisting of 2 ounces of oatmeal and 2 ounces of 
sugar in porridge. Taking the composition of oatmeal as proteid 
14-5 per cent., fat 10, carbohydrate 65, and the sugar as 95 per 
cent, carbohydrate", the meal contains 816 grammes of proteid and 
5-62 grammes of fat, and will yield 287*5 calories — that is, one- 
eighth of the proteid and one-sixth of the total energy required 
for the day. 

Second 7neal : 1 pint pea soup, containing 4 ounces of peas, 
with ^ pound of bread. This contains 386 grammes of proteid 
and 4 grammes of fat, and yields 987*5 calories. 

Third meal : \ pound of bread and 1 ounce of margarine or 
other fat will contain 15 grammes of proteid, and yield 804-6 
calories. 

The three meals form practically a complete dietary; it is rather 
poor in fat, which, however, may be increased in the second meal. 
The London Hospital allows for children : 

(a) Bread, 8 ounces ; milk, 1 pint ; beef-tea, ^ pint (made from 
4 ounces of beef) ; or 

* Farthing dinners were instituted in Birmingham for poor children in 1886. 
The rationale was based on the value of legumes. The meal consisted of soup 
made of peas, beans, lentils, or maize ; of bread-and-milk or cocoa with breail- 
and-Jani. The actual cost averaged 0"45d. jier head. 



THE FEEDING OF CHILDEEN 73 

(h) Bread, 8 ounces ; potatoes, 6 ounces ; meat, 2 ounces 
milk, 1 pint per day. 

The Children's Hospital has dietaries for various conditions : 

(a) Milk diet : Bread, 6 ounces, with butter ; milk, 2 pints ; 
rice or other milk pudding. 

(b) Broth diet: Bi'ead, 7^ ounces, with dripping or butter; 
milk, 1| pints ; mutton broth, i pint. 

(c) Beef-tea diet : Bread, 5 ounces, with butter ; milk, 1.V pints ; 
beef-tea, 13 ounces. 

(d) Fish diet : Bread, 8 ounces, with butter or treacle ; boiled 
sole, 2i ounces ; mashed potato, 3 ounces ; milk, 1 pint, or 
milk 1 pint and cocoa ^ pint. 

(e) Meat diet : Bread, 6h ounces, with butter, dripping, or 
treacle ; meat, 2^ ounces ; mashed potato, 4 ounces ; milk, 1 pint, 
or milk ^ pint and cocoa ^ pint. 

Children at school should, if they rise at six or seven and do a 
lesson before breakfast, be allowed a glass of hot milk, or coffee 
or cocoa with plenty of milk, as soon as they get up. Their 
breakfast at 8 or 8.30 should consist of porridge or hominy, 
followed by fish, egg, bacon, ham, tongue, or cold beef, plenty of 
bread-and-butter, jam, and marmalade being allowed, with tea 
or coffee or hot milk and water. Dinner at 1 or 1.30 should 
consist of meat, haricot beans, pea soup or lentil soup, potatoes 
and green vegetables, turnips, carrots, tomatoes, leeks, or onions, 
in turn. Puddings, such as milk puddings, are very easily digested, 
and suitable for many delicate children, but they are soon 
digested, and leave a sense of hunger ; boiled pudding containing 
fresh or dried fruit, or plain suet pudding, with jam, marmalade, 
or treacle, are more suitable for the majority. Tea at 4 for 
younger children, and at 5 or 6 for older ones, should 
consist of plenty of bread-and-butter or dripping, with jam, 
marmalade, or treacle ; watercress, lettuce, green onions, or 
celery ; tea or hot milk and water. Supper at 7 or 8 may con- 
sist of soup, porridge, hominy or milk pudding, together with 
bread-and-butter with jam or marmalade. Good bread should 
be the basis of all these meals, and whole-meal bread is better 
than that which is made of superfine white flour ; porridge of 
oatmeal or cornmeal is very important ; and all farinaceous and 
saccharine foods must be freely allowed to supply heat and 



74 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

force, and they are usually more easily digested than fat. Fat 
is a very important article, and may be taken in the form of meat, 
bacon, ham. But some children cannot eat these articles ; they, 
however, usually like plenty of butter and dripping, and will fre- 
quently eat boiled puddings in which the suet will easily take 
the place of fat meat. Great care is then necessary that the suet 
is finely minced, for visible suet is as objectionable to them as fat 
meat. Meat should be allowed twice a day, in the form of eggs, 
fish, bacon, ham, sausage, tongue, beef, mutton, or fowl — the lighter 
kind for breakfast, the heavier or more solid kinds for dinner. 
The youngest boys need about 3^ to 4 ounces a day ; boys of nine 
or ten years, about 6 ounces ; and youths of fifteen or sixteen 
years, about 9 ounces of cooked meat, free from bone, per day. 
Clement Dukes, in ' Health at School,'^'* recommends a provision 
of 1 pound of uncooked meat (including bone) for boys of fifteen 
or sixteen, and f pound for boys of ten to fifteen years. Fruit 
and green vegetables should not be forgotten. 

The question of drink cannot be overlooked. Children want 
plenty to drink, as a rule, and they may be allowed plain water, 
milk or milk and water, lemon-water, barley-water, aerated 
drinks, weak tea, coffee or cocoa, with their meals. Children who 
eat badly will usually consume more food if they drink plenty 
with it ; and in a case where milk is an important part of the 
diet they will usually drink more of it if they have it with solid 
food. The question as to whether alcohol in any form should be 
allowed is not a mere matter of sentiment ; briefly, children do 
not need it. At some public schools table beer is allowed the 
boys ; at others they are permitted to buy shandy-gaff (a mixture 
of beer and lemonade in equal proportions.) The least evil of 
the two is to provide it with the dinner or supper, when it may 
be drunk under the eyes of the masters ; this is better than 
allowing the boys to purchase an unlimited amount of shandy- 
gaff. In either case it may be the foundation of future intem- 
perance, and should be discouraged ; but some parents insist on 
the allowance of beer or port wine, and have even sought medical 
certificates to back up their view of its necessity. 

NIGHT TERRORS. 

One of the effects of wrongly feeding children is the trouble 
known as ' night terrors,' which may occur to any child, and 



THE FEEDING OF CHILDEEN 75 

is not uncommon in children of ten to thirteen years of age. 
The attack causes the child to awaken suddenly, usually out 
of his first sleep, with a shriek as if seriously hurt. He sits 
up in bed with an appearance of great terror depicted on his 
countenance ; he is pale or flushed, and a cold perspiration stands 
upon him; he clings convulsively to his nurse, but cannot be 
comforted, and he is unable to explain what is the matter with 
him or what frightened him. It is probable that he has had a 
bad dream or nightmare, and that for the time he is genuinely 
dehrious, for he fails to recognise either his relatives or surround- 
ings. The attack passes off in a few minutes. The trouble 
usually occurs only to highly - strung or nervously - disposed 
children, in whom the pupils dilate from the slightest cause of 
fear or excitement. A careful inquiry into the character of the 
food, or what has been eaten independently of the meals, will 
elicit the fact that it is in some way unsuitable ; it may be that 
too much cake, currants, sweets, or raw fruit, is being consumed. 
Careful regulation of the diet will usually prevent a recurrence of 
the trouble ; if it does not, an inquiry should be made into the 
number of hours of study, especially of home-work ; for a con- 
tinuance of the nervous condition which caused the ' terrors ' may 
be a predisposing cause of epilepsy or chorea. 

It behoves all parents, heads of schools, and committees, to be 
exceedingly particular as to the quality and quantity of food 
supplied to young people during the period of growth, which is 
also that of the greatest physiological activity. There can be 
little doubt that a great cause of ill-health or degeneracy of 
young persons is to be found in the insufficiency of food upon 
which they have to perform the hard work of school life. It is 
to be feared that the average parent thinks little of the feeding 
of his children, especially when they are away from his roof — at a 
boarding-school, for instance ; but it behoves him to inquire most 
particularly into this matter, for it is upon him that the duty 
devolves to see his child fed in such a way as to enable him to 
reach the highest possible physical and mental development. 
The children in orphanages and similar institutions are those 
most likely to suffer, because of the cost of animal food ; but 
surely it is a degradation of charity merely to provide a roof for 
a child, while its body and mind are being starved. The feeding 
of children is of immense importance to the State, for in the 



76 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

race for life the well-nourished will generally beat the badly- 
nourished ones. The well - nourished and sound of body are 
those best capable of advancing themselves and assisting in the 
betterment of others ; while bad feeding, which is part of a 
general deficiency in training, aids in the physical and moral 
degeneration of the race. 

References: ' Carmiehael's 'Diseases of Children.' - Amer. Jour. Med., 
February 7, 1903. •' Blyth's ' Jlamial of Foods.' ■• The Analyst, xxi. and xxx. 
■' Parkes' 'Hygiene and Public Health.' '^ Joicr. State MccL, August, 1903. 
'' Taylor's 'Jledicine.' * Halliburton's 'Chemical Physiology.' " ' The Year- Book 
of Pharmacy, 1896,' 66. ^^ 7-'/;(ir?>?. /o^rr, third series, xxii., 6.51. ^^ Ibid., x\m., 
573. '- Dunlo}) on 'Prison Dietaries,' Lancet, October 21, 1899. ^'^ Brit. Med. 
Jour., 1903. 1904. ^^ Clement Dukes, 'Health at School.' 

The following have also been referred to : Yeo's ' Food in Health and Disease ' ; 
Osier's ■ IVIedicine ' ; Farquharson on 'Physical Degeneration,' the Times, De- 
cember 26, 1903; 'School Food,' by T. W. Reid, and 'School Hygiene,' by 
Butler Hogan, Jour. State Med., April, 1905. 



CHAPTEK VIII 
THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 

This has been largely considered when discussing the value of 
food to the body in a previous chapter. 

Eanke, a man of average size and weight, found that he main- 
tained his health, strength, weight, and nitrogenous equilibrium, 
during the ordinary circumstances of life, upon a diet containing 
100 grammes of proteid, 100 of fat, and 240 of carbohydrate per 
diem, which may be taken as constituting a normal diet. These 
amounts can be obtained from many combinations of food, but 
the three following examples serve to show how they may be 
obtained from the simplest articles : 

(a) 17 ounces of lean meat, 4 ounces of fat meat or butter, 
17 ounces of bread. 

{b) 8 ounces of lean meat, 2 ounces of butter, 28^ ounces of 
bread. 

(c) 12 ounces of meat (fat and lean) and 2 pounds (32 ounces) 
of bread. 

Moleschott, who made numerous experiments, recommended a 
diet for men doing ordinary labour whicii contained 130 grammes 
of proteid, 84 of fat, 404 of carbohydrate, 30 of salts, and 2,800 of 
water. These amounts are moderate, and, although not equal to 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 77 

the figures of some modern investigators, are believed to be 
sufficient. 

The normal diet would be such that the body is maintained in 
health, neither gaining nor losing weight, and the income and ex- 
penditure of the body are properly balanced. There is a personal 
equation in the matter, which may influence the calculation of 
the normal diet of an individual. At any rate, it must contain 
a 7ninlvium of carbon to yield 900 grammes of carbonic acid gas 
— i.e., 245 grammes (about 3,780 grains) of carbon ; it must also 
contain enough proteid to replace the tissue proteid worn out 
daily by wear and tear of the bodily machinery. The minimuvi 
cannot be easily calculated, but it probably cannot fall below 
45 grammes (695 grains) of proteid, which will yield 15 grammes 
(231 grains) of urea, and is little more than the amount excreted 
by a starving man ; as a matter of fact, men find they can work 
best with a daily consumption of 100 grammes of proteid, yield- 
ing 33 grammes of urea. We have seen that the chief proteid is 
the albumin of meat and fish, and the chief carbohydrates are 
starch and sugar. i Starch and other carbohydrates form a large 
part of all cereals and vegetables, and from these heat and energy 
are derived • a diet, therefore, which is deficient in these sources 
of carbohydrate is physiologically wrong. Fat is necessary, in 
the form of fat meat, butter, cream, etc. We might expect, from 
the relationship of fat and carbohydrate, both being composed of 
the same elements, that proteid and starch would form a normal 
diet, and fat would be unnecessary ; but experience proves that 
the body is not maintained in health without fat.- 

Man is an omnivorous animal, and can derive force and heat 
from any food ; and as the body soon adapts itself to its food, 
very few rules can be laid down. As a general rule, people in 
good circumstances eat more meat and less bread than the work- 
ing classes, who can less afford it, and consequently eat more 
bread and less meat. The food in the dietaries of public institu- 
tions usually contains more carbohydrate than proteid food, 
because of the advantage in price, carbohydrate being decidedly 
cheaper ; but, as already stated, the proteid in peas, beans, and 
lentils is cheap enough, and ought to be more freely used when 
animal food is deficient. 

Halliburton-^ says that a man doing ordinary ivork eliminates 



7.8 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



250 to 280 grammes of carbon a day as carbonic acid gas, and 
15 to 18 grammes of nitrogen as urea, and has arranged the 
following dietary as one which will provide these elements on the 
higher scale— viz., 20 grammes of nitrogen and 300 grammes of 
carbon, from 135 grammes of proteid, 97 of fat, and 413 of carbo- 
hydrate : 





Quantity. 






3RAMMES OF — 






Grammes.' Ounces. 

1 I 


N. 


C. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Salts. 


Lean meat 


' 250 ' 9 


1 8-0 


33 


55 


8-5 





4-0 


Bread 


500 18 


' 6-0 


112 


40 


7-5 


245 


6-5 


Milk ... 


500 15 


3-0 


35 


20 


20-0 


25 


3-5 


Butter ... 


30 1 





20 





27-0 





0-5 


Fat meat 


30 1 





22 





30-0 








Potatoes . . . 


450 It) 


1-5 


47 


10 





95 


4-5 


Oatmeal . . . 


75 3 


1-7 


30 


10 


4-0 


48 


2-0 




20-2 


299 


135 


97-0 


413 


21-0 



Eanke, who experimented on his own body with a dietary on 
the lower scale, and which he found to be ample for his physio- 
logical requirements, formulated the following balance-sheet ; 



IXCOME. i 


Expenditure. 


Food. 


Nitrogen. Carbon. 


Excretions. 


Nitrogen.' Carbon. 


Proteid, 100 

Fat, 100 

Carbohydrate, 250 


Grammes. 

15-5 





15-5 


Grammes. 
530 1 
79-0 
93-0 

225-0 


Urea, 31-5 ; uric 

acid, 0'5 
Fteces 
Kespiration (CO^) 


Grammes. ' Grammes. 
1 
14-4 6-16 
1-1 10-84 i 
: 208-00 

15-5 225-00 



If a man live upon lean meat (proteid) alone, he either takes 
too much nitrogen or too little carbon. The latter must then be 
derived from his body, and result in emaciation. This method of 
treating obesity may be counteracted by the formation of fat 
from proteid. If a man live on fat alone, the nitrogen must be 
derived from his tissues. If he hve on carbohydrate alone, the 
nitrogen must again be derived from his tissues, and so far as 
this element is concerned he suffers from inanition. But when 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 79 

carbohydrate and fat are taken along with meat, they spare the 
consumption of proteid. 

During metabolism the food which is being consumed gives 
out heat. Each unit of heat is called a calorie, but the value of 
this unit and the amount of heat given off by the oxidation of 
food differs slightly, according to various authorities. Ranke 
reckoned that 1 gramme of proteid gave rise to 4,000 calories of 
heat, the same amount of fat to 9,069, and of carbohydrate to 
3,898 calories, and formulated therefrom the following balance- 
sheet : 

Heat produced. 

Proteid ... 100 grammes x 4,000 = 400,000 calories. 

Fat 100 grammes X 9,069 = 906,900 

Carbohydrate ... 250 grammes x 3,898 = 974,500 ,, 



2,281,400 



Hkat discharged. 

By warming food ... ... ... 65,000 calories. 

By warming air in lungs ... ... 96,000 ,, 

By evaporation of water in lungs ... 366,660 ,, 
By radiation and evaporation from the 

skin 1,753,740 ,, 



2,281,400 
The following examples of daily allowances show how the 
proportion of proximate principles have been distributed in public 
dietaries for adult male persons : 

(a) Bread, 1 pound ; cooked meat, 8 ounces ; potatoes, 8 ounces ; 
butter, 1 ounce ; sugar for tea, 1 ounce ; 2 pints of tea with milk ; 
2 pints of beer. 

(b) The average full or ordinary diet of various London 
hospitals includes proteid 100, fat 50, carbohydrate 360 grammes, 
distributed as follows : Bread, 12 ounces ; butter, | to 1 ounce ; 
milk, 10 ounces ; meat, 6 or 8 ounces ; potatoes or fresh vege- 
tables, 8 ounces ; oatmeal gruel with milk or beef-tea, 1 pint ; 
milk or bread pudding, 8 ounces ; sugar, 1 ounce ; and tea or 
coffee. Beer or porter, 1 pint a day, when ordered. 

(c) St. Mary's Hospital, London, allows the following ordinary 
diet — Breakfast, 6 a.m. : Tea, coffee, or cocoa, with sugar, 1 pint ; 
milk, ^ pint ; bread-and-butter. Dinner, 12 noon : Meat, 
4 ounces ; potatoes or fresh vegetables, 8 ounces ; bread. Tea, 
4 p.m. : The same as at breakfast. Supper, 7 p.m. : Beef-tea, 
or milk or cocoa, 1 pint ; bread-and-butter. 



80 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

(d) St. George's ' ordinary diet ' includes : Bread, 12 ounces ; 
butter, 1 ounce; meat, 3 ounces; potatoes, 8 ounces; milk, 
■J pint ; porter, i pint ; gruel, 1 pint ; sugar, 1 ounce ; tea or 
coffee. 

(c) A New York hospital^ provides this ' daily house diet' — 
Breakfast : Oatmeal or hominy ; tea or coffee, with milk and 
sugar ; bread-and-butter. Dinner : Potato;- s, bread-and-butter, 
and one of the following : turnips, sweet potatoes, beet-root, 
spinach, squash. Supper : Tea, milk, and sugar ; bread-and- 
Ijutter ; fresh or preserved fruit. The following articles are served 
in addition with the meals mentioned : 

Sunday : Breakfast, eggs ; dinner, roast-beef and corn-starch ■= 
pudding. 

Monday : Breakfast, baked potatoes ; dinner, soup, stewed 
beef or mutton, rice-pudding. 

Tuesday : Breakfast, mutton chop ; dinner, pea soup, roast 
mutton, bread pudding. 

Wednesday : Breakfast, potatoes fried or stewed ; dinner, roast 
beef, corn-starch pudding. 

Thursday : Breakfast, eggs ; dinner, soup, beef, or mutton, 
tapioca pudding. 

Friday : Breakfast, mackerel or codfish ; dinner, bean soup, 
baked fish, rice pudding. 

Saturday : Breakfast, beefsteak ; dinner, corned beef, cabbage, 
bread pudding. 

(/) The British Army allows per day for each man — Bread, 
680 grammes (24 ounces) ; potato, 453-6 grammes (16 ounces) ; 
fresh vegetables, 226-8 grammes (8 ounces) ; meat, 340'2 grammes 
(12 ounces) ; fresh milk. 99'2 grammes (3i- ounces) ; sugar, 
42-5 grammes (li ounces) ; salt, coffee, and tea, each 7-1 grammes 
(J ounce). 

{(j) Parkes suggested the following as a war ration for British 
soldiers."' It contains 5,000 grains of carbon and 380 grains of 
nitrogen : Bread, 20 ounces ; potatoes and green vegetables, 
16 ounces ; fresh meat, without bone, 16 ounces ; sugar, 2 ounces ; 
peas or beans, 3 ounces ; salt, I ounce ; cheese, 2 ounces ; pepper, 
Jy ounce ; tea, I ounce ; coffee, 1 ounce ; and beer, 1 pint, or red 
wine, ^ pint. 

* Derived from Indian corn or maize. 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 



81 



(]i) The daily ration of French soldiers includes : Bread, 
1,000 grammes, or 32 ounces ; fresh vegetables, 100 grammes, or 
3| ounces ; meat, 300 grammes, or 9 J ounces ; sugar, 25 grammes, 
or less than 1 ounce. 

(?') The daily ration of German soldiers includes : Bread, 
750 grammes, or 26^ ounces ; potato, 2,000 grammes, or 
64 ounces ; meat, 250 grammes, or 8f ounces ; rice or barley, 
125 grammes, or 4^ ounces ; beans, 340 grammes, or 12 ounces ; 
salt, four teaspoonfuls ; coffee, four teaspoonfuls. 

(j) The British Navy'^ allows the following ration per man for 
each day : Bread, 680 grammes, or 24 ounces ; or biscuits, 
567 grammes, or 20 ounces ; meat, 340 grammes, or 12 ounces ; 
vegetables and potato, 453-6 grammes, or 16 ounces ; flour, 
256 grammes, or 9 ounces ; condensed milk, 21-2 grammes, or 
f ounce; sugar, 85 grammes, or 3 ounces; jam, 57-7 grammes, 
or 2 ounces ; coffee and tea, 21-2 grammes, or f ounce ; salt, 
7-1 grammes, or } ounce ; rum, 72 grammes, or 2| ounces. 

(k) The Mercantile Marine in 1893 allowed the following 
weekly ration per man, which is compared with the Admiralty 
allowance of the same period ■."• 





Mercantile Marine. 


Admiralty Scale. 


Ounces. 


Grains of 
Carbon. 


Grains of 
Nitrogen. 


Ounces. 


Grains of 
Carbon. 


Grains of 
Nitrogen 

3,178 

68 

120 

8 
14 


Bread, in form of biscuit 
Flour for puddiugs, etc. 

Peas for soup 

Potatoes, dried (1^ = 4 of 
fresh) ... 

Rice 

Oatmeal ... 

Total per week 
Total per day 


84 
32 
5i 

6 

8 
8 


15,372 

5,408 

856 

294 
1,408 
1,376 


1,907 

243 

80 

28 
70 


140 
9 
8 

8 
4 


25,620 
1,521 
1,288 

393 

704 


— 1 24,714 

— 3,530 


2,334 
334 


— 


29,525 
4,216 


3,388 

474 



The Mercantile Marine also allowed 8 ounces of butter, 1 pound 
of molasses, and 1 pound of marmalade, per man per week, which 
materially increased the provision of carbon. The following is 
the bill of fare suggested by the committee ; it is not, however, a 
very exemplary dietary : 

6 



82 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Seaman's Bill op Eare.*^ 





Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Every day 


Cottee, biscuit, 


Biscuit and 


Tea, biscuit, but- 




butter, marma- 


switchel. 


ter, marmalade. 




lade. 






Sunday 


Dry hash, soft 


Sea-pie, plum- 


Cold beef and 




bread. 


duff'. 


pickles. 


Monday 


Irish stew. 


Pea soup, pork, 
and cavalances. 


Dry hash. 


Tuesday 


Rice and molasses. 


Salt beef, potatoes, 


Cold meat and 






plum-duff. 


pickles. 


Wednesday ... 


Porridge and mo- 
lasses. 


Sea-pie. 


Potato stew. 


Thursday 


Bread scowse. 


Pea-soup, pork. 


Cold pork and 






and cavalances. 


pickles. 


Friday 


Dry hash. 


Preserved meat or 
salt fish, pota- 
toes. 


Fish. 


Saturday 


Porridge and mo- 


Salt beef, rice, and 


Cold meat and 




lasses. 


molasses. 


pickles. 



(l) Prison dietary (No. IV.), for men doing hai'd labour in 
English prisons'' — Breakfast: Bread 8 ounces, and gruel or 
porridge 1 pint. Dinner : (a) Bread G ounces, potato 8 ounces, 
suet pudding 12 ounces; or (/>) bread 8 ounces, potato 12 ounces, 
cooked meat, free from bone, 4 ounces ; or (c) bread 8 ounces, 
potato 12 ounces, soup 1 pint. Supper : Bread 6 or 8 ounces, 
and gruel or porridge 1 pint. 

The meat is beef ; bread is made from whole meal ; gruel is 
made with 2 ounces and porridge with 3 ounces of coarse oat- 
meal and salt, to each pint of water. The suet pudding contains 
1| ounces mutton suet, 8 ounces of flour, and 6^ ounces of water 
to each pound. The soup consists of, and contains in each pint, 
•4 ounces of meat, 4 ounces of split peas, 2 ounces of fresh 
vegetables, 1^ ounces of onions, with pepper and salt. The entire 
daily ration contains : carbohydrate 672 grammes, proteid 116, 
and fat 37 ; or nitrogen 17 grammes (262 grains) and carbon 
362 grammes (5,586 grains). These items are in excess of the 
generous allowances of Moleschott, and the carbon is in excess 
of that provided in the war ration for English soldiers ; but there 
is a deficiency in the amount of fat, which cannot be supple- 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 83 

mented by the extra amount of carbohydrate, and only to some 
extent by the proteid ; the dietary could be improved by slightly 
reducing the amount of bread and potato, and adding margarine, 
dripping, or butter. Crauford Dunlop considers prison dietaries 
are, on the whole, well selected ; he shows that the ordinary 
prisoner has fewer hours of labour and more hours of rest than 
the free labouring man, from which he concludes that the 
ordinary prisoner does not need more food than the free labourer. 
Using the standard of ordinary or moderate work, he considers 
that the energy value of the diet of the ordinary prisoner should 
be equivalent to 3,100 calories, and that the diet should contain 
proteid 120, fat 38, and carbohydrate not more than 550 grammes ; 
for women he uses Atwater's figures : proteid 96, fat 30, 
carbohydrate 440 grammes, having an energy value equal to 
2,480 calories, or enough for ordinary work. 

When calculating the amount of food to be allowed in dietaries, 
we have to take into account the percentage composition of each 
article, reckoning the proteid, carbohydrate, and fat in each. 

The amount of proteid in uncooked meat, fowl, fish, eggs, ham, 
horseflesh, etc., varies from 12 to 20 per cent., according to 
quality, digestibility, and mode of analysis ; but they all contain 
about the same amount of digestible proteid, which for calculation 
may be reckoned as 15 per cent. The proteid in peas, beans, 
and lentils, is quite as much as in (more than in some) animal 
foods, but in making calculations they should be reckoned of the 
same value, weight for weight, because their proteid is not so 
easily digested. The proteid in fine white bread is 6, and in 
brown bread 8, per cent. ; in wheat, barley, millet, and oats, the 
average is 12 ; in maize or Indian corn 10, rice 5, macaroni 9, 
arrowroot and corn-starch 0-8, potatoes 2, milk 4, cheese 31, 
butter 1, cabbage 1-8, carrots 1-6, sugar nil. per cent. 

The amount of carbohydrate in wheat-flour is 70, oatmeal 63, 
barley-meal 71, rice 83, maize or Indian corn 04-5, arrowroot and 
corn-starch 83, rye-meal 67, millet 67, macaroni 76 ; in fine 
white bread 51, brown bread 49, biscuit 73 ; in potatoes 21, 
peas 53, cabbage 5-8, carrots 8'4, turnips 6, onions 10, kidney- 
beans 8, beet-root 10, milk 4, sugar 96, per cent. 

The amount of fat in raw meat, game, or fish, may be reckoned 
as averaging 14 per cent. ; in butter, dripping, margarine, and fat 

6—2 



84 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

meat, as 85 per cent. ; in fat pork 49, fat bacon 73, smoked 
ham 36, poultry 3-8, white fish 3 per cent., bread or biscuit 1-5, 
rice only 0"8, oats and maize 5-5, millet 3'6, milk 3"7, cheese 28, 
cream 26 per cent. 

Each gramme of proteid may be reckoned as yielding 4-1 calories, 
of carbohydrate 4-5, and of fat 9'1 calories, or units of heat. 

The above considerations of the diet of man point to several 
conclusions. If a person, whose weight and nitrogenous equi- 
librium are maintained on a given diet, consumes more proteid — 
e.g., lean meat— than is required, his body weight will gradually 
fall ; for an excess of proteids leads to increase of metabolism. 
If other foods are replaced hy proteids — e.g., lean meat — the fat of 
the body will be consumed, owing to insufficiency of carbon in 
the food to produce heat and energy, and the body wastes in 
consequence, as in training for athletics and treatment for 
obesity. If more fat and carbohydrate are consumed, the body 
lays on flesh, and corpulency is favoured ; in this way we have a 
luxus consiimption, just as when a person eats too generously of 
all kinds of food, without any regard to the future condition of 
his body, only caring for the momentary satisfaction of the 
appetite derived from the pleasures of the table. Proteids are the 
most costly and luxurious foods, and their excessive consumption 
always provokes metabolic extravagance ; but there is always a 
danger that metabolism will be defective or incomplete, and 
result in the accumulation of partially oxidized matters in the 
system, with various unpleasant consequences in the form of 
liver disease, gall-stones, gout, rheumatism, gravel, stone, obesity, 
Bright's, and other diseases. 

Mixed diet is the best. Despite the fact that under certain 
conditions and in certain individuals health is maintained on a 
purely vegetarian diet, we are unable to get away from another 
fact— viz., that the average individual does best upon a diet of 
animal and vegetable foods combined ; man is an omnivorous 
animal. ' The purely chemical statement of the amount of 
potential energy in a given kind of food is not a safe guide of the 
physiological value of the same.'^'^ Thus, cheese stands very high 
in nutritive value, chemically speaking, but its digestibility 
depends mainly upon the individual, and, in consequence, it may 
have a very low physiological value. Similarly, the amount of 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 85 

proteid in dried peas and beans is 23 to 25 per cent. — that is, 
more than in meat ; but the physiological value of the same 
depends upon the functional activity of the individual liver and 
stomach, and perhaps is never quite as high as that of meat. 
x\lthough ' the vegetable proteids appear to undergo the same 
changes in the alimentary canal as animal proteids, our know- 
ledge of them is too imperfact to say that the body behaves 
exactly the same on a vegetarian as on a mixed diet.' An account 
is given by Foster of a man who lived for three years on fruit, 
bread, and oil exclusively, making a fairly typical vegetarian 
diet ; his daily ration included proteid 54, fat 22, carbo- 
hydrate 557, and cellulose 16 grammes ; but his excreta showed 
that he lost 41 per cent, of the proteid, 6 per cent, of the starch, 
and 30 per cent, of the fat, which passed out of his system un- 
digested and unassimilated ; he really only got from his food 
32 grammes of proteid, 16 grammes of fat, and 540 grammes of 
carbohydrate ; and a comparison with the normal or standard 
diets previously given will show that this was markedly deficient 
in fat and proteid, while the carbohydrate (chiefly starch) was in 
excess. A diet much richer in proteid can be obtained from the 
vegetable kingdom — e.g., the average diet of a Japanese peasant 
is estimated to contain proteid 102, fat 17, and carbohydrate 
578 grammes ; and a Roumanian peasant, living on beans and 
maize, received proteid 182, fat 93, carbohydrate 968 grammes 
per diem, the latter being similar to that of many Italian 
peasants who live on beans, maize, and oil. The use of ages has 
accustomed the natives of certain countries to eat large quantities 
of millet, rice, and pulses ; but a person unaccustomed to the 
diet would be unable to digest it — the mere bulk would be too 
much for him. Indeed, the real nutritive or physiological value 
of such a diet would be very much less than the chemical or 
apparent one, as was proved by analysis of the excreta of the 
English vegetarian quoted above. An analysis of the modified 
vegetarian diet, in which eggs and milk figured prominently, of a 
person who maintained fairly good health and nitrogenous 
equilibrium showed it to contain proteid 74, fat 58, carbohydrate 
490 grammes ; unless, therefore, the food consumed be in large 
amount, the proteid element of a vegetarian diet falls below the 
normal, or that which is considered by all authorities as essential 



86 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

to maintain the wear and tear of the human machinery (see 
'Vegetarianism'). We must conclude, therefore, that for 
civihzed man a mixed diet is the best, as providing a greater 
proportion of proteid material, and exacting less work from the 
digestive and eliminatory organs. It is true that habit is an 
important factor : that civilized man has a large control over his 
food and clothing, and other conditions under which he exists ; 
his aim ought, therefore, to be to co-ordinate the conditions of his 
life to that which is ideally the best. A celebrated medical man 
formulated the rule of reply when asked by his patient if he 
might have particular articles of food : ' Ask if he likes it, and if 
it agrees with him ; if it does, there is no intelligible reason why 
he should not have it.' But this does not always follow, for 
articles which apparently agree with persons may not be advan- 
tageous to them — e.g., sugar and starch for diabetics. Pytha- 
goras left us the following useful maxim : ' Find out that course 
in life which is best, and habit will make it delightful.' 

Size and Weight. — It would appear at first sight that the total 
daily amount of food ought to vary with the size and weight of 
the individual ; and in discussions on nutrition generally, state- 
ments are made per kilogramme of body weight. In a broad 
sense, a small man needs less food than a large one ; but Foster ^^ 
says : ' The smaller organism, having a relatively larger surface of 
body, carries on a more rapid metabolism, and consequently 
needs a relatively larger proportion of food' — i.e., more food per 
kilogramme of body weight ; but the influence of size in this 
respect is far less than the inborn character of the organism, or 
what may be called the personal equation of metabolism. The 
metabolism of a woman is less than that of a man, which is a 
more important cause of the scantier consumption of food by 
women than mere size and weight. Thus, an active man and his 
wife, both of the same age and nearly the same weight, lived for 
some time on the same food, and their nutritive equilibrium was 
maintained when the food they daily consumed contained the 
following proportions, in which the most remarkable difference is 
in the smaller consumption of meat by the woman : 

Weight and nitrogen equilibrium maintained upon — 

The man 

The womau ... 



Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


100 


70 


400 grammes 


60 


67 


340 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 87 

Age. — In spite of scientific investigations as to the bodily 
requirements of persons who have reached adult life, and of the 
amount of food they should consume, we are bound to admit that 
the personal equation may upset the calculation, and that scientific 
figures can only be given for averages, unless similar investigatii-ns 
are made upon each individual. The general rule must guide us, 
but the personal equation may enforce a modification of it in 
practice. With regard to young adults, the skeleton or frame- 
work may cease to grow after seventeen or eighteen years of age, 
but certain organs do not reach their full development l^efore 
twenty-five, up to which period it is always prudent to consider 
the young adult as having not quite completed his physical 
development, and consequently to feed him abundantly in propor- 
tion, as more or less of the food has to go to the manufacture 
of flesh, blood, and bone, or only to be consumed in the pro- 
duction of heat and energy and to maintain bodily wear and 
tear. Young females attain complete development a little earlier 
in life than males. In both cases, after the period of growth and 
development is completed, the amount of food required is not 
quite the same as during the period of growth. It should, 
however, be clearly understood that throughout the active period 
of life the healthy adult should have sufficient food to meet the 
daily needs of the organism, to supply force and heat, to replace 
tissues worn out, to keep the organs in good repair and the whole 
body in sound health. Deficiency of proteid, being the most 
costly form of food, is that which is most common ; and proteid- 
starvation is not uncommon amongst many poor but respectable 
people who have to live for long upon a diet in which ' tea and 
bread-and-butter ' figure largely, but in which the proteid is 
markedly deficient. The general principles already dilated upon 
should guide us in individual cases; and where the cost of animal 
proteid (meat, fish, milk) is beyond the power of purchase, the 
freer use of the vegetable proteids in haricot beans, lentils, and 
dried peas, is highly recommended. 

Variety of food is necessary, for monotony even of the best 
kinds of food leads to satiety, loss of appetite, loathing of food, 
and consequent ill-health. Vegetables and fruit are absolutely 
necessary to the dwellers in towns; but raw fruit and vegetables 
are not so easily digested as the same kinds are when cooked ; 



88 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

hence, while recommending the free use of oranges, lemons, 
bananas, tomatoes, grapes, strawberries, etc., it should be remem- 
bered that apples, many kinds of pears, gooseberries, and other 
fruit, are best when cooked before they are eaten. 

Overfeeding is to be guarded against. It has been said that 
more people die from excessive eating than from excessive drink- 
ing. Too much food is habitually consumed by many people, 
especially those who have easy access to it. The effects of 
occasional overfeeding may be relieved by a bilious attack. If 
persons in sound health eat more than they require, the surplus 
must be disposed of in some way ; a certain amount may be 
stored up in the body as glycogen and fat, but very often an 
* undesirable balance remains against the feeder,' which exerts 
an evil influence in one way or another by causing headache, 
lethargy, diseases of the liver, uric acid accumulations, gout, 
rheumatism, gravel, or diseases of the bloodvessels. If the 
individual is very active, more food can be disposed of than if he 
is inactive and leads a luxurious life or has a sedentary occupation. 
But if he spend much of his time indoors, in warm, close, or 
ill-ventilated rooms, the balance tells against him very disagreeably; 
it may be packed away in the subcutaneous tissues or around the 
internal organs, and the individual then becomes obese, corpulent, 
and heavy. Other persons, however, do not seem to have the 
power of storing up food in the form of fat, however rich and 
abundant it may be, and however inactive and luxurious their 
habits ; in such instances it causes the troubles named above. 
Therefore an excess of food in adult life encourages or causes the 
diseases to which people are liable in late-middle and advanced 
age. In youth and early adult life excess of food may be disposed 
of by more ready digestion and assimilation, by greater metabolic 
activity, and by their greater capacity for physical exercise, where- 
by such excess may be used up and eliminated. It is advisable 
that adults should continue out-of-door exercises and games as far 
and as long as possible to keep their digestion good, their liver 
in order, and their body slim and trim, for the assimilating and 
eliminating organs are much influenced by activity or otherwise ; 
and this may be imitated to some extent by the use of Turkish or 
Russian baths and purgative waters, which are strongly recom- 
mended for such people. 1^ 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 89 

THE TIME AND NUMBER OF MEALS. 

An ordinary full meal requires, on an average, four and a half 
or five hours for its complete digestion, some foods occupying 
a longer, others a shorter time. Children, by virtue of their more 
rapid digestion, greater metabolic activity, and power of assimila- 
tion, need more frequent meals than adults ; growing active 
youths are very similar in this respect ; and adults whose occupa- 
tion keeps them much out of doors and physically active digest 
their food more rapidly and completely than middle-aged persons 
or those whose occupation is of a sedentary character. By eating 
at too short intervals — that is, by taking a fresh meal before the 
complete digestion of the former one — many cases of indigestion 
and gastric catarrh arise. 

As a general rule, active persons who lead a regular life may 
eat their breakfast as soon as they arise ; indeed, any amount of 
exertion before taking food is apt to lead to languor and a feeling of 
exhaustion, and ultimately to dyspepsia ; the delicate, feeble, and 
underfed, are also liable to take harm from cold, infection, or any 
other insanitary condition to which tbey may be exposed, which 
is an important reason why they should breakfast before going 
out. But obese, overfed, and certain dyspeptic patients, may 
require a short walk, a little exercise in the garden or on horse- 
back, before taking a meal. On the Continent a very light 
breakfast is taken, consisting of a cup of coffee and a little bread- 
and-butter, dry toast, or similar light article; and custom or habit 
helps them to tide over the interval between this and the mid-day 
breakfast or dejeuner d la fourchette. But in England and 
Germany a more substantial meal at 8 or 9 a.m. is the custom, 
and agrees with the majority of people who are occupied during 
the forenoon on business ; but there are many people who, by 
idiosyncrasy or habit, or owing to gastric ailments, are unable to 
take more than a very light breakfast, and appear to do very well 
on that for a few hours. The former may begin the meal with 
hominy, porridge, or fish, and follow this with an egg or a little 
bacon or ham, ham and tongue, or cold poultry, accompanied by 
bread-and-butter, dry toast, marmalade or preserved fruit, and 
tea, coffee, or cocoa. The latter will probably find a cup of tea 
and a slice of dry toast and butter, or the very smallest particle 
of fish or bacon, all they can consume at this time ; and they 



90 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

would, perhapp, not feel so well or be able to perform their duties 
so satisfactorily if they ate more. They are, however, more 
rapidly exhausted than the former, and usually require a glass of 
milk and a biscuit or similar light article in the middle of the 
morning. People who dine late, 8 or 9 p.m., and make a sub- 
stantial meal then, ought to have a very light breakfast. 

The time and substance of the mid-day meal should be varied 
with the breakfast. A very light breakfast should be followed by 
an early and ample meal at noon ; but a substantial breakfast 
should not be followed by another meal until 1.30 or 2 p.m., and 
it should be light in proportion as the breakfast was substantial 
or the last meal will be heavy. If, then, the breakfast was a 
substantial one, the lunch may consist of a little soup or lish, 
followed by a chop, a little cold poultry or game, with bread or 
potato ; but this should be the extent of it. If, on the other 
hand, the breakfast was a light one, and the mid-day meal is 
dmner, it may consist of soup or fish, followed by hot meat from 
a joint or game or poultry, with potatoes, vegetables and bread, 
light pudding or cooked fruit and custard, and a little cheese and 
butter. A little cheese after a hearty meal is a stimulant to 
digestion. Mid-day dinner is not ideally the best for the man 
whose work is chiefly mental and of a sedentary character. 

The last meal, called dinner or supper according to custom, and 
the extent of it, has now to be considered. If this meal is 
' dinner,' it should be taken about 7 or 8 o'clock, or at least four 
hours before going to bed, and will have been preceded by the 
light lunch referred to. It usually consists of soup or fish or 
both, an entree, hot meat from a joint, game or poultry, with 
fresh vegetables, potatoes and salad, sweets, light pudding or 
cooked fruit, cheese and biscuit, and dessert. ' Supper' is the last 
meal in the very large proportion of houses where dinner is a 
substantial repast taken at mid-day ; it must be a light meal, 
taken at least two hours before bedtime, and may consist of a 
little light fish or porridge, cold joint or poultry, or ham and 
tongue, ^vith salad, and a little bread, butter, and cheese. 

' Tea ' is a difficult meal to regulate ; it varies according to 
habit, custom, and usages of localities ; nevertheless, it ought to 
be regulated by physiological necessity. In the first place, a cup 
or two of tea about 4.30 or 5 o'clock agrees either with an early 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 91 

or late dinner ; the liquid is then favourable to digestion, it assists 
in completing the digestion of the mid-day meal, and it rouses 
mental and physical activity and supports the body until the time 
arrives for the later meal, which is essential to those who have 
lunched lightly. It is, however, physiologically wrong to make a 
meal at this time ; it should consist of tea alone, or with a slice 
or two of bread-and-butter or a little cake, nothing else. Excep- 
tion is to be made in the case of children, growing boys and girls, 
and perhaps young adults, whose digestion is very rapid and 
whose supper is light ; four meals a day is the proper thing for 
them, but they have been previously considered. It is wrong, 
however, for adults and those in middle life to consume much at 
this time ; indeed, the custom of ' high tea ' at 5 or 6 o'clock is 
responsible for much indigestion, gastric catarrh, and liver trouble. 
It is wrong, in the first place, not to allow a rest to the stomach, 
or to put more food into it before the last meal is quite digested ; 
it is, therefore, contrary to physiological rules to consume meat, 
fish, ham, pastry, and similar things, at this time. 

The Germans arrange their meals at similar times to the 
English, but they almost universally dine at 12.30 noon, and take 
their supper at 7.30 or 8 p.m. Less food is eaten in France than 
in England ; a cup of cafe au lait or chocolate with dry toast or a 
biscuit is taken in the bedroom on getting up, and this does not 
delay their professional work, which begins at 8 or 8.30 a.m. 
Their first formal meal is the dejeuner a la fourchette at about 
11.30 a.m., which makes an agreeable change in the day's routine ; 
they consume it slowly, and rest for some time after it while they 
sip a cup of coffee and smoke. The next meal is at 6 or 7 in the 
evening, and consists of soup, fish, entrees, and several dishes 
containing meat or game, with potatoes, vegetables, salads, sweets, 
and dessert. This is a substantial meal, and being taken at the 
end of the day's work, and a long time before going to bed, they 
give more time to it, and are less oppressed by it than they would 
be by eating a meal hurriedly and at once rushing back to business 
or intellectual work. Moreover, greater attention is paid to the 
art and practice of cooking, to the care of, preparation, and 
manner of presenting the food, which is conducive to the pleasure 
of consumption, and increases the nutrition and stimulation which 
may be derived from it. 



92 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

FOOD IN RELATION TO OCCUPATION. 

(a) Bodily Labour. — Food supplies heat and energy, but the 
energy expended in work done is not altogether separate from that 
which is set free as heat, for an increase of work involves an 
increase of heat. A man doing a hard day's muscular or physical 
work needs a larger income of energy, therefore, of food than an 
idle man or a man who is resting. Given a normal diet, an increase 
of work does not necessarily require an increase of proteid or 
animal food, for the energy for muscular work does not come from 
proteid metabolism or consumption of the muscles, as was once 
thought. In fact, it is carbon metabolism which is increased by 
muscular work ; therefore extra food for extra work should consist 
of carbohydrate material in the form of bread, puddings, sugar, and 
other sweets. But the power of doing work does not depend on 
the muscles alone, but on the heart, lungs, and nervous system. 
Fatigue is more a nervous than a muscular condition ; and 
distinctly muscular fatigue is partly due to the accumulation of 
waste materials in the muscles as well as the consumption of 
available energy. It is possible, therefore, that what is needed 
by a man doing hard physical labour is a slight increase of the 
total amount of food on the lines of the normal diet, but with a 
leaning towards carbohydrate. The following is a fair average 
diet for a man at work — Breakfast : Porridge, consisting of 
2 ounces of oatmeal or cornmeal and ^ pint of milk, or 4 ounces 
of cooked beef, mutton, ham, or bacon, or two eggs, together with 
6 ounces of bread, f ounce of butter, 1 pint of tea or coffee, with 
I ounce of sugar, and milk or cream. Dinner : Soup, 6 ounces ; 
cooked meat, game, or fish, 4 to 6 ounces ; potatoes, 8 ounces ; 
cooked vegetables, 4 ounces ; bread, 3 or 4 ounces ; rice or other 
pudding, 6 ounces ; cheese, ^ ounce ; ale or water, h pint. Tea : 
Tea, I pint ; sugar, | ounce ; milk, 2 ounces ; bread, 4 ounces ; 
butter, I ounce. Supper : Cooked meat or fish, 3 ounces; or two 
eggs, or porridge, consisting of 2 ounces of oatmeal or hominy 
and -}j pint of milk ; with bread, 3 or 4 ounces ; butter or cheese, 
I ounce ; water, ale, or cocoa, i pint. The total amount of this 
diet is equivalent to 12:^ ounces of meat and 2 pounds of bread, 
and is enough for a man doing full work. The items consist of 
the ordinary and customary forms of food, which, however, can 
be infinitely varied. 



I 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 93 

When calculating the quantity of food required for a number of 
people, it is usual to reckon one-tenth less for a woman than for 
a man in the same circumstances ; for a boy of fifteen as much 
as for a woman ; and for a youth of eighteen as much as for a 
grown man when performing similar work. The dietaries given 
on pp. 76-84 will be a sufficient indication of the amount of food 
required under various circumstances. 

There are certain circumstances in which it is impossible to 
obtain a regular supply of fresli food for workmen — e.g., seamen, 
and those occupied in certain expeditions on land. In such cases 
great care must be taken that the food does not become too 
monotonous, as a regular bill of fare is liable to do. Fresh meat 
and vegetables must be obtained when possible, and salt meat 
should be varied with preserved or tinned meat. Potatoes ought 
always to be allowed, and green vegetables should be as abundant 
as possible. Preserved meat and vegetables can be obtained in 
perfection, but fresh ones are more antiscorbutic, and should 
always be served out when possible. Lime-juice is a good pre- 
ventive of scurvy, and when it cannot be had, vinegar should 
be allowed with salted meat. Pickles are also antiscorbutic, and 
should be freely used when fresh vegetables cannot be had. 
Butter, suet, raisins, rice, sago, oatmeal, marmalade, and 
molasses, are amongst the usual supplies. Eaisins and suet are 
good in boiled pudding — 'plum-duff'; oatmeal or boiled rice and 
molasses are good for breakfast, and marmalade for dinner. 
Bread should be baked fresh as long as possible ; but the 
monotony of salt beef or pork, tinned meat, fish, pea soup, rice or 
porridge, plum-duff, dry biscuit, and tea or coffee, is by no means 
appetizing, especially in the tropics, and is probably one reason 
why the men drink so freely of alcoholic beverages. 

The Diet of Athletes. — The object of training for athletic 
exercises is to bring about the highest degree of strength, 
activity, and endurance, of which the body is capable. By the 
special exercises and dietary a loss of weight is usually induced, 
owing to the consumption of the fat of the body ; if it is carried 
too far he is over trained, and thereby weakened, instead of his 
muscular and nervous apparatus being invigorated. If he is still 
encumbered by useless fat he is under-trained, and an endeavour 
is made to strike the happy medium. The food consists largely 



94 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of mutton chops, under-done beefsteaks, broiled or grilled, stale 
bread or toast, any kind of green vegetable, and a small amount 
of potato. The transition from ordinary diet to that of the 
trainer should be made gradually, and not suddenly. He must 
avoid all puddings, pastry, sweets, sauces, pickles, and spirits ; 
he may drink tea, coffee, cocoa, a little beer or light wine, also 
toast-water, barley-water, black-currant tea, and similar drinks. 
Usually three meals a day are taken. The diet adopted by King 
was as follows 13 — Breakfast : Two mutton chops, with dry toast, 
crust, or stale bread, without butter, one cup of tea without 
sugar. Dinner : IJ pounds of lean beef or mutton, with toast or 
stale bread, a little potato, some greens, and }, pint of old ale. 
Tea : An egg, with dry toast, and one cup of tea. Supper : 
I pint of gruel or old ale. When ' tea ' is not a meal, the 
supper may consist of cold meat, bread, lettuce, watercress, and 
1 pint of beer. 

This diet is similar to that adopted by the late Mr. Banting 
when treating people for corpulency. It contains an excess of 
proteid, and a corresponding deficiency of carbohydrate and fat, 
with the consequence that superfluous fat and water are got rid 
of and weight diminishes, while at the same time an endeavour 
is made to effect the fullest development of the muscles and 
nerves by the manner of feeding and exercise. The latter 
consists of walking up to twenty miles a day, and special 
exercises for certain groups of muscles in the way of rowing, 
boxing, cricket, or other form of sport in which it is desired to 
excel. 

(b) Mental Work. — The same principles which guide us in 
adjusting the food of the labourer, mechanic, soldier, sailor, and 
all who do physical work, should be applied in fixing that of the 
clerk, accountant, architect, lawyer, clergyman, journalist, banker, 
statesman, or other individual, whose woi-k is chiefly of an 
intellectual or mental character. The actual expenditure in 
doing mental work is relatively small, but its influence upon the 
entire organism is very great. The close and intricate connection 
of the brain and nervous system with the functions of digestion, 
assimilation, and metabolism generally, is shown by the readiness 
with which the stomach and liver become deranged by such 
work, and especially when combined with worry and anxiety. 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 95 

If any special diet is required by brain-workers, it bears no 
particular relation to the brain of those whose occupation is 
chiefly of an intellectual or mental character, but it must have a 
special reference to the stomach, and should be directed towards 
lightening the labours of that organ, and of keeping the liver and 
other eliminating organs in healthy action. 

The normal diet should again be our guide ; but those whose 
work is chiefly mental and largely sedentary do not need quite 
so much food as people whose pursuits take them more in the 
open air or involve much physical exercise. It has already 
been observed that a man doing ordinary ])hysical work requires 
more food, both proteid and carbohydrate, than the same man at 
rest ; and likewise a man doing less physical work, or whose 
occupation is chiefly mental and of a sedentary character, 
requires somewhat less food than those doing more physical 
work, but the proportions of proteid, carbohydrate, and fat, 
sliould remain the same as in the normal diet = proteid, 100; 
fat, 100 ; carbohydrate, 240 grammes. But they should live wpon 
lighter and more easily digested, food than is absolutely necessary 
to the physical labourer or the growing individual. 

The food should consist of soup or broth ; fish of the lighter kinds 
(whiting, sole, plaice, turbot, brill, flounder, cod, haddock, chad, 
bass, skate, oysters) ; lamb, mutton, or tender beef, taking care to 
remove skin and gristle ; fowl, pheasant, and rabbit are more 
suitable than venison, hare, or other game ; eggs, bacon, fat 
ham, tongue, tripe, sweetbread ; milk, cream, cream-cheese, new 
milk-cheese, butter ; stale bread, dry toast, biscuits, oatmeal, 
hominy, blanc-mange, rice, sago, tapioca, and other milk puddings, 
or custard, junket, egg-snow, jelly ; potatoes, sweet potatoes, 
artichokes, asparagus, French beans, green peas, vegetable 
marrow, pumpkin, spinach, cauliflower, and small quantities of 
Brussels sprouts, cabbage, savoy, or kale ; but turnips, carrots, 
parsnips, and fibrous cabbages and vegetables, should only be 
taken in the form of puree or consommee. Eaw fruit which is 
ripe and sound may be eaten in moderation, especially grapes, 
oranges, ban.anas, tomatoes, strawberries, raspberries, nectarines, 
apricots, greengages, and pears ; and cooked apples, gooseberries, 
currants, plums, or rhubarb, may be eaten to a reasonable 
extent. 



96 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Things to he avoided. — The importance of keeping in order the 
stomach and liver of those who do mental work has heen already 
mentioned, and it cannot be too much insisted upon. They 
should, therefore, avoid rich food, rich soups or sauces, ' force- 
meat,' veal, pork, duck, goose, sausage, fried eggs, fried iish, and 
other articles fried in fat ; liver, kidneys, brain ; pickled or salted 
meat, venison, hare, and ' high ' game, and the skin and gristle of 
beef, mutton, and all other animal food. Also much pastry, rich 
cakes, hot buttered toast, crumpets, muffins, pancakes, new bread, 
boiled puddings, nuts, and very much uncooked fruit, vegetables, 
or salads, and especially heavy or fibrous vegetables, unless they 
are reduced to a puree, because the fibrous portions are indi- 
gestible, and they are very flatulent (see also ' Indigestion ' and 
' Gastric Catarrh '). 

Sir W. Eoberts divided foods into two classes : (a) Those 
which subserve the needs of general nutrition — e.g., meat, fish, 
eggs, milk, dairy products, bread, cereals, legumes, vegetables, 
and fruit ; (b) tea, coffee, cocoa, and to some extent alcohol and 
tobacco. Meat belongs to both classes, for it possesses certain 
stimulating properties, which distinguish it from vegetables and 
dairy produce. Tea, coffee, alcohol, and tobacco, are sometimes 
branded as luxuries, but Eoberts says ' they are not inappro- 
priately termed brain foods, and must be regarded as a very 
important part of the equipment for the struggle for that higher 
and better existence among civilized men, which is almost exclu- 
sively a brain struggle.' The importance of fat in the food of such 
people is seen to be very great, when we consider that the 
muscles only contain 3 per cent., but the brain has 8 and the 
nerves 22 per cent, of fat ; and we at once perceive the high 
value of butter and cream or bacon for breakfast, and other 
forms of fat, in the food of men who are devoted to all kinds 
of mental or intellectual work, if their nervous system is to 
maintain the ability of properly performing its varied functions. 
Fish is chiefly of value to them because it is lighter and more 
easily digested than butcher's meat, does not contain quite so 
much nitrogen, and therefore throws less work upon the liver and 
eliminating organs, for which reasons it is recommended as a 
substitute for meat to some extent, but not because it has any 
special claim to be regarded as a brain food. The importance of 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 97 

fresh vegetables and fruit of a digestible character, especially to 
those who live in towns, cannot be overlooked. 

The best order of meals is breakfast, lunch, a cup of tea at five, 
and dinner at seven or eight in the evening. The man whose 
occupation is sedentary, and whose work is chiefly mental or 
intellectual, will do well not to eat a heavy meal in the middle of 
the day if he has to go on with his work at that time, because he 
may be incapacitated by it for work for an hour or two ; indeed, 
it often causes languor, dulness, drowsiness, or heaviness, and 
should be followed by mental and physical rest. Exercise or 
brain-work during the digestion of a full meal acts deleteriously 
by withdrawing from the stomach to the brain or muscles the 
blood which is required for the secretion of gastric juice, by 
which means indigestion is favoured or actually caused. 

Excess of food is bad for everybody, but especially for brain- 
workers. If they consume an excess of animal food, they will 
become languid, oppressed, subject to headache, indigestion, 
disease of the liver, and many ailments associated with the pro- 
duction and elimination of uric acid and its allies of the purin 
class. They ought, therefore, to have porridge, fish, eggs or fat 
bacon, for breakfast, and butcher's meat only once a day, with 
plenty of milk puddings, the latter being admirably suited to these 
people as a supply of both proteid and carbohydrate. If they 
take an excess of carbohydrate in the form of bread, oatmeal, 
arrowroot, and other starchy foods, they will probably suffer from 
acidity of the stomach, heartburn, flatulence, palpitation, burning 
of the hands and feet, and other discomforts. They should not 
eat new bread, hot cakes, hot buttered toast, crumpets, muffins, 
pancakes, boiled fruit or suet puddings, because they often cause 
headache, dulness, heaviness, and mental depression, which act 
as a clog upon the mental functions. In like manner they should 
avoid cheese, except about a cubic inch at the end of dinner, and 
heavy vegetables like turnips, swedes, carrots, parsnips, very 
much cabbage, or raw fruit and nuts and other hard substances, 
which cannot be easily digested by those who do not take much 
active exercise. Radishes, cucumber, raw onions, celery, and 
the like, contain much cellulose, which cannot be digested except 
by bacteria in the large bowel, and, like cabbage, turnip, and 
carrots, are very flatulent as well as difficult of digestion, and 

7 



98 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

should therefore be eaten in great moderation by all persons 
of sedentary occupation. Beans and peas require a stronger 
stomach and a longer time for digestion than animal food ; they 
generate sulphuretted hydrogen and other gases in the bowels, 
and, like other heavy foods, make the brain dull and inactive, 
wherefore a meal of ' pork and beans ' would be wrong for this 
class of persons. ' Made dishes,' highly-spiced foods, articles 
cooked in butter or fat, and other ' rich ' foods, check the 
secretion of the gastric glands, cause indigestion and liver 
trouble, and in turn interfere with the nutrition and activity of 
the brain. 

Drink may consist of plain water, tea, coffee, cocoa, and a 
moderate amount of alcohol, in the form of light dinner ale, 
lager beer, hock, moselle, burgundy, or other light wine, or a 
little well-diluted spirit. The dictum of the governors of large 
bodies of men is that all work is better done without alcohol. 
Necessity or individual idiosyncrasy may require it, but it should 
be remembered that if the effect on the brain is to make it active 
and quick, it is only a temporary effect, while the after-effect upon 
the body may be such as to react upon the brain and nerves. 
Anyhow, it can only be taken in moderation if the head is to 
remain clear, the stomach free from catarrh, and the liver in 
good order, which are points of importance to the men whose 
work depends upon clear-headedness, mental activity, and a 
general feeling of well-being. The question of drinking milk as 
a beverage remains to be considered. This is a highly-nutritious 
fluid, which contains a good percentage of proteid in such a 
condition that it becomes solid when it mingles with the gastric 
juice in the stomach. If, therefore, it is drunk with the lunch or 
dinner, the consumer may unwittingly take a larger amount of 
poteid material than he requires; and, because it adds to the 
sohdity of the meal, it lays a strain upon the stomach to digest 
it, and it is apt to be followed by headache, dulness, and drowsi- 
ness, just as when too much meat is eaten. It is therefore 
erroneous for men and women who take little active exercise, or 
who have much mental work to perform, to drink milk with a 
meal in which animal food forms a prominent part. 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 99 

DIET IN RELATION TO CLIMATE. 

The chief difference in the food consumed by persons in countries 
out of the temperate /ones attaches to the temperature of the 
chmate. When the body is exposed to a low temperature the 
general metabolism of the person is increased, from which we 
infer that more food is necessary in cold climates than in temperate 
ones. The increase of metabolism consists in the greater dis- 
charge of carbonic acid gas, which, therefore, must be met by the 
consumption of more fat and carbohydrate than the same person 
would take in a temperate climate, fat supplying twice as much 
heat as carbohydrate in proportion to its weight, and carbohydrate 
requiring more labour on the part of the digestive organs to con- 
vert it into easily oxidizable material. An increase of the propor- 
tion of animal food eaten by those who live in cold climates is 
therefore a scientific procedure. In cold northerly climates vege- 
tation is scarce, but animals which provide the natives with fat 
are abundant, and the necessity for supplying the body with a 
large amount of combustible substance in the form of fat and 
other animal food accords with the love of such material by the 
inhabitants of arctic climates, which may be taken as a safe guide 
in this matter. 

When anybody is exposed to the greater heat of hot climates, 
the general metabolism of the body is somewhat decreased, in 
spite of which the temperature of the body is maintained at about 
the normal degree, even when the temperature of the surrounding 
air is higher than that of the body. This, however, is not so 
much the result of diminished production of heat, but because a 
greater amount of heat is lost from the surface of the body by 
perspiration, by radiation, convection, conduction, and evapora- 
tion ; from which it is concluded that it is not necessary to take 
less food in hot climates than temperate ones, but that there 
should be a little increase of carbohydrate foods to supply the 
heat which is lost from the skin, and for the greater evaporation 
of perspiration.'-^ 

In tropical and other climates where they have prolonged hot 
seasons, as in Southern Europe, South x\merica, India, Africa, 
the West Indies, the natives live much on fruit and vegetables 
where these can be obtained, and less on animal food than those 

7—2 



100 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

who dwell in colder regions of the earth. But it has been already 
observed in this chapter that unless such food be consumed in large 
amount the proteid element will fall below the normal quantity, 
or that which is considered by all authorities as essential to 
maintain the wear and tear of the human machinery. Men going 
to live in warm climates must consume on the whole a normal 
diet, containing the same daily proportion of proteid, carbohydrate, 
and hydrocarbon as elsewhere, and the quantity consumed 
should be proportionate to the mechanical work to be done — 
that is, there must be a balance between the income and ex- 
penditure of the body. The only change necessary is a slight 
increase in the amount of carbohydrate consumed, with the 
special view of furthering perspiration. 

At first sight it would appear beneficial to the white man, when 
living in foreign climates, to restrict the consumption of animal 
food and live chiefly on vegetables and fruit, according to native 
custom. But medical testimony as well as physiological fact is 
opposed to this. A strictly vegetarian diet, even when it contains 
as much proteid as ordinary food, is physiologically inferior to 
a mixed diet, or that in which animal food occupies its proper 
place. Long centuries of usage has accustomed the natives to 
eat large quantities of manioc, rice, millet, the pulses, and other 
vegetables ; but a person unaccustomed to such a diet would be 
unable to digest it at first, and the mere bulk would be too much 
for him ; besides, the cayenne pepper and other condiments which 
the natives consume would set up gastric catarrh and congestion 
of the liver in a short time. However, the tendency to scurvy in 
all tropical countries necessitates the consumption of plenty of 
fruit and green vegetables. 

A few particulars may now be given. Meat should only be 
eaten twice a day and in moderation. It should always be well 
and carefully cooked. Heavy luncheons should be avoided, and 
the dinner is best taken after the work of the day is over. The 
digestive organs are more easily upset in the tropics than in the 
temperate regions, and cannot so well bear the strain of over- 
eating. Beef, mutton, pork, goat (kid), venison, fowls, and fish, 
are usually obtainable. In some places antelope (of which there 
are many varieties), ducks, pigeons, guinea-fowls, pea -fowls, 
partridges, bustards, and other animals useful for food, make a 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 101 

pleasant variety. Milk is obtainable from cows, goats, and asses. 
The latter is very suitable for infants as a substitute for mother's 
milk, and goats can easily be moved from place to place as 
necessity requires. Tinned foods, such as meat and fish, should 
be avoided if possible. If compelled to use them, the whole tinful 
should be consumed at one meal ; nothing which is left ought to be 
eaten afterwards, because such foods are liable to speedy degenera- 
tion from bacterial growth, and may cause ptomaine-poisoning. 
The flesh of goat, deer, antelope, native pig, birds, and even fish, is 
infinitely better and safer than any kind of tinned food ; the eggs 
of fowls and other birds, the flesh of turtle, clam, and other 
molluscs, may also be had in many places. Besides which, there 
are sources of proteid supply in the form of ground-nuts, oatmeal, 
bean flour, pea flour, banana flour, which, being eaten with milk 
in porridge or in soup, form a most nutritious food. 

The carbohydrate supply is derived from bread, which should 
be made fresh as long as possible ; biscuits ; also rice and ground- 
rice in the form of puddings, boiled rice, curry ; oatmeal ; maize or 
corn meal, which may be cooked like oatmeal and eaten with 
milk ; banana flour in form of porridge or thin gruel ; ground- 
nuts ; sago, tapioca, arrowroot, semolina, vermicelli ; sugar, jam, 
marmalade, honey. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes should be grown by every settler ; they 
will grow almost anywhere, and are an important food, not only 
as a source of carbohydrate for supplying heat and energy, but 
because of their antiscorbutic properties, so much needed by 
residents in the tropics. Sweet potatoes are grown in many 
places, and make an excellent substitute ; cassava in its season, 
boiled in several waters and then fried, resembles potatoes ; green 
Indian corn or maize (mealies), when boiled in milk or roasted in 
ashes, is very good ; yams and bread-fruit are also excellent ; 
tomatoes grow almost anywhere ; green bananas or plantains 
may be boiled or roasted in ashes, and form an excellent vege- 
table ; green peas and kidney beans, pumpkins and vegetable 
marrow, even cabbage and cauliflower, are obtainable, or can be 
grown by the settler ; the fruit of the papaw is an excellent 
vegetable, and when boiled resembles vegetable marrow. Eruit 
may be eaten abundantly when fully ripe — but it is better eaten 
during the day than at night — as oranges, lemons, limes, melons. 



102 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

papaws, bread-fruit, bananas, plantains, mangoes, guavas, olives, 
figs, dates, apricots and other plums, and pineapple (juice only 
should be taken freely). Dried fruits, as figs, dates, prunes, 
apricots, apples, and tinned fruit, are very useful whenever the 
fresh articles cannot be obtained.!^ 

Beverages. -^Tea, coifee, and cocoa are the best ; their various 
substitutes, as kat, Caffre tea, Dorn-the, goora-nut, mate, guarana, 
may be had and used in the districts where they are customary 
articles. Lime juice makes a valuable drink, but fresh-made 
lemon-water is much better ; raspberry vinegar and water, black- 
currant water, barley-water, rice-water, oatmeal-water, banana 
wine, toddy, whey, tamarind-whey, koumiss, are all useful drinks 
in various conditions of health and sickness. It should be remem- 
bered that thirst, and relieving it by frequent potations, is a matter 
of habit and education, and can he largely controlled. Frequently 
drinking large quantities of liquid, especially when overheated or 
fatigued by a journey, is injurious ; nevertheless, we have to bear 
in mind the excessive perspiration induced by the heat of the 
climate. Drinking a large quantity of water from a running 
stream while excessively hot is capable of causing the person to 
become insensible ; and drinking much milk alone while in the 
same over-heated condition may cause acute gastritis. The use 
of alcohol in the tropics is a matter requiring grave consideration ; 
it is a vexed question, and has been very hotly debated. It is 
admitted on all hands that, when suitable food is provided, men 
are better in health without it, and can perform their duties more 
satisfactorily. Mohammedanism, the religion of millions who 
dwell in hot climates, is against its use, and backs up scientific 
facts. Spirits, especially, are very injurious, unless freely diluted 
with water ; wine and beer should only be drunk in moderation — 
about half-pint of light red wine or one pint of beer a day is con- 
sidered a very fair allowance, but even that is better replaced by 
tea and coffee, which are at all times the best stimulants. 

In expeditions in foreign countries, campaigns on land or long 
sea voyages, where there may possibly be a shortage oi fresh food, 
a large amount of dried, salted, and even concentrated food, is 
usually provided. Concentrated food consists of water-free 
material, which occupies a very much smaller space and is less 
heavy than ordinary food. It is found that in making short 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 103 

expeditions — say, four or eight days — each man's daily ration may 
be reduced to about 12 ounces of tvater-free material ; and, pro- 
vided he is well fed beforehand, life and vigour may be preserved 
on that amount ; but he will constantly lose weight, and time and 
food must afterwards be allowed to make up for the consumption 
of his own flesh caused by the reduction of supply. 

During all foreign expeditions, whether by land or water, it is 
very important that fresh food should be given as long as possible, 
for there is something in the very newness or freshness which is 
important to the health and vigour of the consumer; thus fresh 
meat is better than preserved meat, bread better than biscuit, fresh 
fruit and vegetables better than dried fruit and vegetables, and 
new milk is better than condensed. Therefore, bread should be 
baked as long as possible ; when this is no longer possible it is 
replaced by biscuit ; and when biscuit is issued for more than 
a week at a time it is advisable to add an extra allowance of flour 
or rice for making pudding or oatmeal for porridge. When fresh 
meat is no longer to be had, reliance has to be placed on foreign 
meat (American or Australian), salted beef or pork, tinned 
meat, dried meat (biltong), pemmican, or meat biscuits ; and it is 
recommended that vinegar should be taken with salted meat when 
it has to be consumed for more than a few days. Peas, beans, 
lentils, durra or millet, and ground-nuts, will replace the meat ; 
and pea and beef sausage, pea or bean soup, haricot beans, or 
other similar preparation, may be used when fresh meat is scarce 
or absent. When fresh vegetables or potatoes are no longer obtain- 
able, and preserved ones are being used, lime juice, or, probably, 
fresh lemons, must be consumed freely to prevent scurvy and other 
ill-effects which accrue from their long absence. The governors, 
or those in charge of all expeditions into hot climates, aver that 
alcohol is better done without ; that the important work of such 
expeditions is always better done by the teetotallers or those who 
are extremely abstemious ; that alcohol is the very rock on which 
the men are likely to become wrecked ; that excessive drinking, 
combined with the atmospheric conditions, lowers their vitality 
and renders them a ready prey to disease ; that spirits ought never 
to be allowed, and if any alcohol is deemed necessary it should 
consist of light wine or beer. 



104 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

FOOD IN MIDDLE LIFE AND OLD AGE. 

Age is ever increasing upon us, and if we desire to have the 
elasticity of youth in middle life, and the vigour of middle life in 
old age, we must practise abstinence, or at least temperance, in 
many things while we are still young. 

It may be stated with certainty that, if we wish to live to 
a good old age, we must begin to lay in a store of vitality 
at a comparatively early period. There can be no fixed rules for 
this, and much depends upon one's personal common-sense and 
individual peculiarity. There is no doubt a sound constitution 
and careful living are among the best means of attaining length 
of life ; and in nothing, perhaps, does heredity make its influence 
more felt than in this particular. There is no secret means of 
attaining longevity ; the people who have lived to a great age have 
nothing to reveal ; their modes of life, though diverse, have run 
upon ordinary lines. According to the British Medical Journal, 
Moltke, the Eussian General, in his ninetieth year, said he had 
maintained health and activity by great moderation in all things 
and by regular out-of-door exercise ; Crispi said regularity and 
abstinence are the secrets of a long life ; the Hon. Neal Dow of 
Maine laid stress on the avoidance of fretting, disturbance of the 
digestive organs, and protection from sudden cold ; Cornari was 
extremely moderate in his eating and drinking : he took everything 
which agreed with him and nothing which did not ; and Abraham 
Lincoln's advice was : ' Don't worry, eat three square meals a day, 
say your prayers, think of your wife, be courteous to your creditors, 
steer clear of biliousness, go slow and easy.' 

It is a case of looking after one's general health, to which end a 
few generalities are applicable. Avoid much stimulant of any kind, 
either alcohol, tea, coffee, or other kind ; avoid big dinners, 
especially of rich and indigestible food ; keep early hours, go to 
bed early, rise early ; live, work, and sleep in well-ventilated 
rooms ; keep the bowels and kidneys in regular action ; take 
frequent baths and plenty of exercise in the open air every day ; 
avoid exposure to sudden changes of temperature and draughts ; 
wear good boots and underclothing ; avoid undue excitement ; 
always have something to do, either physical or mental ; avoid 
worry, anxiety, fretfulness, repining, envy, hatred, and matice ; 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 105 

but cultivate a placid, cheerful disposition, and endeavour to take 
a hopeful view of all things. 

Undoubtedly, those born of long-lived families have the best 
chance, but it is a chance which may be destroyed. There are 
some people who live a much faster life than others, well expressed 
by such a phrase as 'burning the candle at both ends.' A modern 
writer to women in this connection says : ' The modern women 
eat rich and masculine meals which a generation ago they rele- 
gated to men ; they now eat anchovies, savouries, olives, foreign 
cheeses, devilled bones, and hot, spiced, or rich dishes, with the 
wine appropriate to each ; this, with late hours and excitement, 
produces crow's feet and the marks of high living which are fatal 
to beauty. It is as hard for a woman to rule in the world of 
beauty as for a man to make his mark in politics : it is just one 
round of self-denial ; but it is worth it ; you cannot eat your cake 
and have it ; and if you indulge in such food your looks must 
suffer ; to live year in and year out on table-d'hote diet is ruinous 
to health and beauty. Course after course is eaten by unwary 
women who do not realize that each meal of these highly- 
seasoned, spiced, and unwholesome foods is hurrying on their age 
at a galloping pace. The quantity, quality, and circumstances of 
each meal ought to be considered. Many people who have been 
to a big dinner overnight will eat sausages and bacon, pork pie, 
or other equally rich food, for breakfast. Now, circumstances alter 
meals ; a dinner-party overnight calls for a light breakfast of tea 
and toast or other simple thing. At a dinner-party, without eating 
too much, one is apt to eat much more than at home, to mix things 
too much, and perhaps take more than one kind of wine, thus 
breaking the laws of health. Judicious fasting after a dinner- 
party may counteract the evil, and the saving grace of roast 
mutton and rice puddiug is beneficial. The dance, with its ices, 
champagne, and pastry ; the ball supper, with its viands, aspics, 
and sauces, are warranted to produce liver complaint and indiges- 
tion. Fortunately, the exercise of the ballroom floor is to some 
extent a counteracting influence to the ball supper. For two days 
after a big dinner or ball supper you should eat only plain and 
wholesome food, take plenty of outdoor exercise, and keep early 
hours.' The writer goes on to recommend avoidance of worry, to 
sleep well and at proper times, to avoid over-heated and badly- 



106 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

ventilated rooms, to eat plain food, to take plenty of exercise, and 
have regular hours day and night, in order to keep ofi" the appear- 
ance and reality of old age. 

Many of the customs of life do harm if persisted in. The 
custom of late dining does harm to many people ; it causes flush- 
ing of the face, indisposition for mental and physical exertion, 
oppression, quick pulse, palpitation, dryness of the hands. Animal 
food for breakfast is not suitable for people of sedentary occupa- 
tion or delicate digestion. Highly-spiced and made dishes, 
curries, turtle soup, and such things, are harmful. They frequently 
check the secretion of gastric juice or of hydrochloric acid, and 
thereby hinder digestion ; they cause chronic congestion of the 
liver, gastric and enteric catarrh, and hgemorrhoids. It has 
already been pointed out that rich cakes, owing to the amount 
of butter they contain, are not easily digested, and they cause 
indigestion and its evils. New bread readily forms boluses 
which neither the salivary nor gastric juice can easily penetrate ; 
and the same remark applies to hot cakes and crumpets. Hot 
buttered toast and pastry are equally pernicious, because the 
bread cannot be digested until the fat has been dissolved out of 
it, and headache, giddiness, lethargy, are not uncommon after 
their consumption. Meat and fish which have been fried in fat 
come under the same category, and instances may be multiplied 
so that one might construct an index c.rpurgatorius of foods 
which an individual who wishes to keep youthful and elastic must 
avoid or eat with great moderation. 

When the various stimulants are considered, we cannot refrain 
from the admission that age is hastened by their excessive use. 
The milder stimulants, as tea, coffee, and cocoa, can all be taken 
in moderation. Excessive tea-drinking is injurious to the nervous 
system, causes fluttering of the heart, palpitation, tremors, 
flushing of the face, owing to disturbance of the sympathetic 
nerves. Strong tea inhibits salivary action by its tannin, is a 
frequent cause of indigestion, and predisposes to gout. But the 
moderate consumption of tea enlivens without producing injurious 
effects, and assists in the removal of mental and physical fatigue. 
Coffee is a similar stimulant to tea, and a valuable aid to persons 
undergoing fatigue. Some people can take coffee without injury 
who have flatulence and palpitation after drinking tea. On the 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 107 

other hand, the habitual use of coffee may induce indigestion by- 
checking the work of the stomach for a longer or shorter period, 
and backache, liver complaint, and haemorrhoids, are not un- 
common. Cocoa has few of the deleterious effects of tea and 
coffee ; it is more sustaining, but less invigorating. The frequent 
mixture of starch with cocoa causes it to be thicker than tea or 
coffee ; the more concentrated cocoas are thinner, and quench the 
thirst better. Yerba mate, or Paraguay tea, is lauded by some 
writers as being free from the unpleasant effects of tea and coffee, 
and more exhilarating. Guarana, or Brazilian cocoa, also has its 
advocates ; but this is a remedy for nervous headaches, migraine, 
and exhaustion, rather than a regular beverage. 

Much may be said with regard to alcohol. A little good wine 
or beer with a meal is of service in the economy. It is, however, 
quite unnecessary for healthy persons, and many diseases are 
caused by it. Alcohol diminishes the power of the organism to 
resist disease, and is therefore an agent in shortening life. It 
actually causes degeneration of the tissues of exactly the same 
kind as results from old age ; it produces atheromatous changes 
in the bloodvessels and iibroid changes in the tissues, and there- 
fore hurries age upon us. It has been calculated that the system 
can dispose of about 2 ounces of any one of the spirits per diem, 
most of which is consumed by oxidation in the body, and the 
remainder is eliminated by the skin, lungs, and kidneys. Above 
that amount only 7 per cent, is quickly consumed and eliminated ; 
the remainder lies lurking about the body and doing mischief in 
it, and is only very slowly eliminated. A glass of good wine, ale, 
or stout, with a meal encourages appetite and strength partly by 
the tonic effects of other ingredients than alcohol. 

The. diet for a person over sixty-five years of age must contain 
less proteid than for a man in middle life, because there is less 
wear and tear of the body, and the tissue changes are slower in 
progress. No fixed rule can be given, but the amount of proteid 
cannot be cut down to less than 45 grammes or 695 grains of dry 
proteid material — that is, about one-third of the amount for a man 
doing ordinary work (Moleschott). This will yield 15 grammes 
of urea, or the quantity secreted by a starving man, and 
probably represents the minivmim of waste derivable from wear 
and tear of the human machinery. This amount may be obtained 



108 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

from 7 ounces of lean meat, chicken, or game, or 8 ounces of fish, 
or If pints of milk, or 6 eggs, or 4 ounces of cheese, or 5^ ounces 
of lentils, or llj ounces of oatmeal, or 17 ounces of bread. The 
choice, therefore, is not limited, though the amount of each 
material stated contains the lowest amount of proteid necessary 
for bodily uses apart from labour. 

A daily diet containing 3 ounces of cooked meat or game, 
8| ounces of bread, 10 ounces of milk, and 2 ounces of oatmeal, 
would contain 997 grains of proteid and yield 332 grains of urea, 
and would be a moderate allowance.^^ 

The quantity of carbohydrate and hydrocarbon in the food 
cannot be greatly diminished, because the heat of the body has 
still to be maintained ; and the total amount of heat-producing 
material in the above diet may not be enough, but can be readily 
increased by more bread-and-butter, sweets, and milk puddings, 
sugar being of especial value to elderly people as a heat-producer. 
The following is suggested as a suitable diet, but other simple 
foods may be added or replace them : 

Breakfast : Oatmeal gruel, or bread-and-milk, or one egg ; 
bread-and-butter, tea, coffee, or milk. Dinner (at mid-day) : About 
2 or 3 ounces of cooked meat or game, or 4 ounces of fish ; 
potatoes, vegetables, bread, milk pudding ; a little weak spirit and 
water or similar drink according to custom ; water. Tea : Bread- 
and-butter, tea or cocoa, a little cake or jam. Supper : Oatmeal 
porridge, or bread-and-milk, or milk pudding, or bread-and- 
butter with hot milk or cocoa to drink. 

It is impossible to lay down any fixed rules except this one, 
that the amount of animal food and of beans and lentils must be 
considerably reduced, to at least one-half, and perhaps a third, of 
what men take in middle life. Great moderation at this period- 
of life is an aid to longevity. It is sometimes hard to convince 
people how little food is necessary in old age, especially in 
advanced age, when the processes of life are becoming slower and 
slower, to maintain the body in health. Moderation is construed 
differently by different people. Some think if they abstain from 
alcohol they may indulge freely in meat and other highly-nutritious 
foods. But they cannot continue to do so with impunity, for 
changes will gradually develop in their bloodvessels and organs, 
such as atheromatous or fibroid thickenings of the bloodvessels. 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 109 

which will be followed by apoplexy; or there will be chronic 
disease of the liver and kidneys or gout. They must, therefore, 
reduce the amount of meat as well as alcohol if they wish to 
avoid these troubles. Sir Herman Weber says i'' : ' Few people 
know how little food is necessary in advanced age to maintain 
bodily health. Few people who live to more than eighty are 
large eaters of meat. ... I have not been able to convince 
myself that in healthy people a fair amount of meat, fish, poultry, 
or game, causes any bad effects. But most people enjoy better 
health and live longer who eat only a httle meat and a larger 
quantity of vegetables, to which milk and its preparations may 
be added. . . . The food should not be bolted or moistened 
with much fluid during the meal; but it must be thoroughly 
masticated and moistened by incorporation with the saliva before 
it is swallowed. Most people in advanced age get thinner, and 
this is decidedly an advantage to those who have been corpulent, 
for by loss of weight they may retain their activity longer than 
they otherwise would do. They feel Hghter, breathe freer, and 
may be more energetic. Some old people count this loss of weight 
an evil, and endeavour to remedy it by eating more food. But 
that is wrong ; if the person is healthy, nothing need be feared 
from the gradual loss of weight which is usually evident in 
persons who reach an advanced age.' 

Metchnikoff says ^'' old age is a chronic disease in which the 
pathological change is sclerosis, which may affect the liver, 
kidneys, and other organs, but is mostly seen in the arteries. 
The bones grow thin and brittle with advancing age, the tissues 
atrophy and become replaced by hypertrophied connective tissue. 
In the brain and nerves, the cells which perform motor, sensory, 
and intellectual functions, give place to lower or neurogha cells. 
The liver cells recede before the invasion of connective-tissue 
cells. A similar condition takes place in the kidneys and other 
organs. In short, old age is a struggle between the proper 
functional cells of the organs and the simple connective-tissue 
elements, and the latter are the conquerors. Phagocytes, too, 
aid in the process, as is seen in the whitening of the hair. 
Normal hair is full of pigment, but at a certain period the cells 
of the medulla become active, and devour the pigment granules 
within reach, and so the hair is robbed of colour and becomes 



110 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the first manifestation of old age. The incivasing porosity of the 
bones is hkewise due to the absorption of the osseous lamellae 
by phagocytes. Something may be done by strengthening tlie 
most valuable organisms on the one hand, and weakening the 
phagocytes on the other. But the problem is not yet solved. 
Three distinguished physicians, however, have given to the public 
very valuable advice : 

Sir Herman Weber formulated the following rules for prolong- 
ing life : ' Pure air in and out of the house ; moderation in eating 
and drinking ; keep all the organs healthy as far as possible ; 
take regular exercise out of doors, every day, in all weathers ; go 
to bed early, rise early, sleep eight hours ; keep the skin in 
order ; have regular work or mental occupation ; cultivate a 
placid, cheerful, hopeful state of mind ; avoid anodynes, stimu- 
lants, excitement, passion, and all other injurious agencies. 

' Some men retire from business at sixty to sixty-five years of 
age, and lose their grip on life because they take no interest in 
anything. This is wrong. Such men must find an interest in 
some object — something outside themselves, and they must 
keep up a variety in their mental occupation and take an interest 
in their surroundings ; otherwise they are likely to become 
dejected and melancholy, and little things may burden and worry 
them.' 

Sir James Sawyer recommends : ' Eight hours' sleep ; sleep on 
the right side ; keep the bedroom windows open ; avoid draughts ; 
take a daily bath at the temperature of the body ; eat little meat, 
and that well cooked ; eat fat to feed the cells which destroy 
microbes ; avoid alcohol, which destroys such cells ; take daily 
exercise in the open air ; exercise before breakfast ; take frequent 
short holidays ; limit your ambition ; keep your temper.' 

Sir B. W. Eichardson also gave the following excellent advice : 
' Live on light diet, with milk as the standard food, but varied 
according to the season ; take food in moderate quantity four 
times a day, the last being a light meal before going to bed ; 
clothe warmly but hghtly, so that the body may at all seasons 
maintain its temperature ; keep the body in fair exercise, and the 
mind active and cheerful ; maintain an interest in what is going 
on in the world, and take a part in reasonable labour and pleasures, 
as though old age were not present ; take plenty of sleep during 



THE DIET OF HEALTHY ADULTS 111 

sleeping hours ; spend nine hours in bed, and take care that the 
temperature of the bedroom is maintained at about 60° F. ; avoid 
passion, excitement, and luxury. 

References: ^ Hill's 'Notes on Physiology.' ^ Foster's 'Physiology,' vol. ii. 
■■Halliburton's 'Physiology.' ^ Yeo's "Food in Health and Disease.' ^Lancet, 
April 29, 1893. ^ Ibid. ''Brit. Med. Jour., i., 37, 1893. "Lancet, loc. cit. 
^ Yeo, loc. cit. "' Foster, loc. cit. " Ihid. i- Sir H. Thompson's ' Food in 
Relation to Age.' ^^ Power's ' Physiology.' '^* Kerr Cross's 'Health in Africa.' 
15 Sir H. AVeber, Brit. Med. Jour., vol. i., 1904. ^^ /7>zrf. , Epitome, June 25, 1904. 
1'' Sir J. Crichton-Browne, Jour. Frev. Med., August, 1905. 



PART II 
MATERIA ALIMENTARIA 

In this part a survey of most of the common and ordinary 
articles of food is given, including remarks upon their quality 
and composition, with analyses from reliable sources. 

CHAPTEE IX 

MEAT: THE MAMMAT.IA 

Meat is food in general, but the term is applied particularly to 
the flesh of such animals as live on the surface of the earth, as 
cattle, pigs, sheep, deer, goats ; v^hilst game is a term applied to 
many quadrupeds and winged creatures which afford sport to 
man in catching or killing. The meat of carnivorous animals is 
tough and ill-flavoured, and is not usually eaten by civilized 
people ; on the other hand, the flesh of herbivorous animals is 
generally palatable, wholesome, and easily digested. Lean meat 
consists of muscle without fat. 

BEEF. 

Beef is the flesh of the Bovidae, genus Bos, a subfamily of the 
CavicorncB, or hollow-horned animals. The tribe of oxen are 
ruminant animals, which chew the cud ; their food is vegetable, 
and they live in herds. There are many wild species, amongst 
which is the common ox. Some of these formerly lived in the 
hilly districts of Great Britain, especially in the North of England 
and Scotland ; but now a few only remam in the enclosed areas 
of large landowners. Bos taurus, or the common ox, is the pro- 
genitor of the various species of oxen, which are among the most 

112 



MEAT: THE MAMMALIA 113 

valuable of our domestic animals. The flesh of oxen, or beef, is 
one of our principal articles of food, and practically every part of 
the animal is useful to mankind for various purposes. The present 
races, breeds, and permanent varieties, have descended from the 
wild ox by natural or artificial selection — indeed, great has been 
the influence of the breeder upon them. Some of the varieties are 
esteemed for their flesh and skins, some for the superabundance 
of their milk, others for a combination of these qualities. It is 
needless to enter into a discussion of their relative value for the 
butcher, dairyman, tanner, clothier, or for draught purposes. 

The quality of beef depends upon the sex, age, breeding, and 
feeding of the animal. Bull-beef is very dark red, and requires 
long cooking, and in general is dry, tough, and not agreeable. 
Ox-beef is the best ; it is of a bright-red colour, highly nutritious, 
agreeable to the palate, and digestible. Cow-beef is paler and 
not so agreeable, nor so good for making beef-tea. Heifer is held 
in high estimation by epicures. The flesh of small breeds is 
much sweeter than that of large ones. Cattle are usually killed 
at three to four years of age. Small breeds are best for food at 
three years old ; large-breed oxen from four to five, when they 
are in their prime ; cow-beef cannot be eaten too young. The 
fat of beef should be white or pale yellow ; when it is of a decided 
yellow tint it indicates that the animal was fed largely on oil- 
cake, and the flesh is not so good for invalids as that of animals 
fed on roots and pastures. Veal or calf should not be killed 
under six, and is in its prime at ten, weeks ; if eaten too young 
the flesh is certainly not wholesome ; it wants firmness, which 
can only be attained by development of muscular fibre and those 
animal juices on which flavour and an important part of its 
nutritive qualities depend. Veal is but little nourishing at the 
best ; it requires a long time for its digestion, and often causes 
diarrhoea and symptoms which indicate the absorption of albu- 
moses or proteoses into the system. It is by no means a suitable 
food for the sick or invalid, although veal broth makes an agree- 
able change with other soups, and is gelatinous. Veal which 
has had its tissues blown up by the butcher ought to be rejected ; 
to say the least about it, the usual method of doing it is obnoxious, 
as the breath of the individual who blows it up may be tainted, 
and he may actually convey disease germs into it. 

8 



114 FOOD AND HYGIENE 



MUTTON. 



Mutton is the flesh of sheep. The domestic sheep is Ovis aries, 
and several varieties ; a grazing and cud-chewing aninaal of the 
genus Ovis, family Capridae, or solid-liorned animals. Sheep are 
exceedingly useful animals to man, either naturally so or by long 
cultivation by human beings. The flesh is an agreeable article of 
diet, more often eaten than any other meat by many families, 
and with connoisseurs and medical men it is first favourite, 
whether they consider its flavour, digestibility, or general whole- 
Bomeness. 

Sheep are in their prime for food at two or three years of age ; 
wether-mutton, the flesh of the castrated animal, is in perfection 
at three to four years, and is by far the sweetest and most 
digestible ; while ewe-mutton is best eaten young, not more thaa 
two years old. 

The varieties of sheep are very numerous, and it is unknown 
from what wild species they have been domesticated. The South 
Downs of Sussex and Hampshire, the Cotswolds, the Lincolns, 
the Leicesters, the Cheviots, and the black-faced, are among the 
principal British varieties. As a rule, the larger the frame of the 
animal the coarser the meat ; the smaller the bones and the finer 
the breed, so much more delicate will be the flesh. The difference in 
the quality of the flesh as a food, shown by its flavour and tender- 
ness, depends very largely upon the variety, but equally important 
are the pastures and the breeding-ground — witness the fine flavour 
of the mutton grown upon the thymy heaths of Sussex. 

Lamb is the young of sheep killed at twelve weeks old or 
more. Owing to the large amount of moisture in the tissues of 
all young animals, the flesh of lamb and veal is more prone to 
become tainted and spoilt than that of more mature animals, 
which is closer-grained and drier. The juice of the tissues easily 
escapes when the animal is cut into joints, and this is frequently 
removed as it exudes from the interstices, because it forms a very 
agreeable medium for the growth of bacterial germs ; some 
nutriment is lost by its removal, to avoid which the cook occa- 
sionally sprinkles the joint with flour, to absorb and preserve the 
fluid, which consists of lymph or serum from the tissues. The 
reshness of lamb can be told by the dilated pupil and brightness 



MEAT: THE MAMMALIA 113 

of the eye, by the muscular rigidity and firmness of the kidneys, 
which indicate wholesomeness, freshness, and death by the hands 
of the butcher. 

GOAT. 

Goats consist of many species of Capras ; they are about the 
size of sheep, and exist on the scanty and coarser food of rocky 
and mountainous regions, the inhabitants of which keep them 
for their milk — an exceedingly nourishing and sweet fluid — as 
well as their flesh, which is to them a valuable article of food, 

VENISON. 

Venison is the flesh of deer (CervidcC and varieties), which are 
ruminant animals, existing in many parts of the world ; few now 
exist in Britain, and they are enclosed mainly in the parks of 
aristocratic houses. The flesh is dark, wholesome, and delicious. 
Antelopes of many kinds are eaten as venison wherever they 
appear. 

PORK. 

Pork is the flesh of hog (Sus scrofa) ; it is eaten fresh, salted, 
or smoked, as bacon, ham, sausages, and pies. The fat of pork 
is lard, a soft neutral white fatty substance, which consists of 
olein, stearin, and palmitin (see ' Fat of Meat '). 

The young of pig is a dainty dish, highly prized by epicures ; 
the animal should not be more than four or five weeks old to be 
at its best. Charles Lamb, in the ' Essays of Elia,' says : ' Of 
all the delicacies in the whole mundus edibilis I will maintain it 
to be the most delicate. ... I speak not of your grown porkers 
. . . but a young and tender suckling under a moon old ... he 
must be roasted ! There is no flavour comparable to that of the 
crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling ; the very 
teeth are invited to their share of pleasure at this banquet 
in overcoming the coy, brittle resistance, with the adhesive 
oleaginous — oh, call it not fat ! but an indefinable sweetness 
growing up to it — the tender blossoming of fat — the cream and 
quintessence of the child-pig's food ; the lean no lean, but a kind 
of animal manna, or, rather, fat and lean so blended and running 

8—2 



116 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

into one another that both together make but one ambrosian 
result or common substance.' 

THE RODENTS. 

These mammalia afford excellent sport to the hunter, and 
many are esteemed for food. The hare {Lepus timidus and 
varieties) lives entirely upon vegetable matter, and is highly 
nutritious and stimulating ; its flesh is dark and dry in com- 
parison to that of rabbit, and is in some respects superior, being 
more savoury and of higher flavour. The rabbit {Lepus cuni- 
culus and varieties) is both wild and domesticated ; its flesh is 
whiter and more juicy than hare's, and is largely used for food. 
The rat (Mus rattus, M. dccuvianus, and other species), when 
corn and similar materials are eaten, is said to be delicious. 
They are cooked in pies and other ways. In South America 
and the West Indies these animals are replaced by cavies, such as 
Agouti, Capyhara, Coy23U, and Paca, which are eaten. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

The dark flesh of beef, mutton, venison, and hare, contains 
somewhat more nutriment, and is decidedly more stimulating, 
than the white flesh of lamb, veal, rabbit, chicken, partridge, 
pheasant. The Hesh of animals which roam in search of their 
food is generally allowed to be of finer flavour than that of 
animals which are enclosed in a stall or confined area. 

No butcher's meat is so digestible and tender as mutton ; when 
well conditioned its fibres appear to possess just that degree of 
consistence which is most congenial to the stomach, and in 
England it is perhaps more frequently eaten than any other 
animal food. Beef is not so easily digested — -its texture is firmer — 
but it is equally nutritive ; its tenderness and flavour depend 
somewhat upon the length of time the meat has hung since 
killing and the method of cooking it. In proportion to age, its 
flesh is coarser and firmer. The distribution of fat is important : 
in old animals it is collected chiefly in masses or layers external 
to the muscles and around the internal organs ; in young ones it 
is interspersed among the muscular fibres, and gives the flesh a 
marbled appearance, which is always a desirable qupJity of 
butcher's meat. The more difficult digestion of pork is largely 



MEAT: THE MAMMALIA 117 

due to the saturation of its fibres with fat during cooking, and 
frequently to fatty degeneration ; and the easier and more rapid 
digestion of chicken, pheasant, rabbit, etc., is largely owing to 
the absence of fat from their tissues. The sex of animals modifies 
the quality of flesh, that of the female being more delicate and 
finer than that of the entire male animal at the same age, whose 
fibres are firmer. The influence of the genital organs is very extra- 
ordinary ; it is stated that the flesh of a female is improved by 
the removal of the ovaries, or spaying ; and as regards the male, 
every day the testes are permitted to remain injures the delicacy 
of the veal of a bull-calf ; and in an animal not castrated until 
after puberty the flesh always retains the coarseness of the entire 
animal. The same remarks apply equally to the flesh of sheep 
and other animals, even birds. 

THE CHOICE OF MEAT. 

That which is known to be the flesh of an unsound animal must 
be rejected. Lean meat ought to be firm, elastic, and mixed with 
fat (marbled), in young, healthy, well-fed animals. The lean 
should be of a deepish-red colour, not dark, livid, greenish, or 
pale, nor soft and flabby ; it should have the characteristic odour 
of meat. The lean of animals killed while in a state of fever or 
inflammation is dark or otherwise discoloured ; it is more moist 
than ordinary ; the spaces contain pus or other fluid, which soon 
undergoes putrefaction. Meat which has begun to putrefy is soft, 
pale, flabby, and has an unnatural odour, perceptible on a knife 
pushed deeply into it, and which becomes apparent when the meat 
is warmed by cooking. When meat is good the flesh adheres 
firmly to the bone ; the fat is firm and yellow, has no red points 
(blood), is neither particularly greasy nor friable to the touch, but 
is moderately unctuous. When the animal is emaciated the 
flesh adheres but slightly to the bone, its fibres are contracted 
and dry, and the fat is friable and shrunk. When meat is stale 
or game is too ' high,' there is little doubt that changes have 
taken place within it from bacterial action, whereby certain 
alkaloidal substances of the nature of ptomaines and leucomaines 
(q.v.) of an exceedingly poisonous nature are produced. When 
these are taken into the body with the food they are absorbed, 
and serious, even fatal, results may follow. 



118 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Average Composition of Meat. 





Nitrogenous. 


Pat. 


Water. 


Beef (average of parts) 


17-12 


27-33 


55-5 


Veal 


19-55 


5-40 


75-5 


Mutton (Konig) 


18-11 


7-7 


75-9 ] 


,, very fat 


14-8 


36-39 


47-9 ! 


Venison (Bibra) 


19-24 


1-3 


74-63 


Pork, fat (Konig) 


14-54 


37-34 


47-40 


., lean (Kiinig) .. 


19-91 


6-81 


72-57 


Tripe 


13-2 


16-4 


68-0 


Chicken ... , 


23-35 


3-21 


74-44 


Partridge 


25-35 


1-45 


71-69 


Fat goose 


15-89 


45-61 


38-02 



The composition of cooked meat is 27*5 per cent, of proteid 
material, 15-5 per cent, of fat, 3-0 per cent, of salts, and 54 per 
cent, of water. Eaw meat contains 22 per cent, of proteids, 
17 parts of which are digestible and 5 parts indigestible, the 
difference being due to loss of water in cooking. Bones contain 
a large amount of albuminoid material, mainly as — gelatine, 
24 per cent. ; fat, 11 per cent. ; mineral, 48 per cent. A most 
nourishing soup can be prepared by boiling bones for a lengthened 
period. 

Lean meat consists of the muscular fibres, which contain many 
things ; the proteids are myosin-albumin, the chief constituent 
in the active part of muscle ; serum-albumin from the lymph and 
blood in its vessels ; keratin and elastin from the bloodvessels ; 
special colouring materials ; extractives or products of disinte- 
gration (as creatin, creatinin, sarkin and sarcolactic acid, inosinic 
acid, taurin, xanthin, hypoxanthin, uric acid, and urea), which 
give the characteristic odour and flavour to roast meat and 
broth. The fats are lecithin and cholesterin. The carbohydrates 
are inosite, dextrin, dextrose, and glycogen. The salts are chiefly 
phosphates and chlorides of soda, potash, lime, iron, and 
magnesia. 

Fat meat consists of fat cells, held together by a loose stroma 
of connective tissue and vessels. The internal fat of the abdomen 
of sheep and oxen is called suet — a firm, smooth, white, odourless 
substance of a similar composition to other fats. Fat is a 
hydrocarbon — an oily, concrete substance, composed of carbon, 



MEAT: THE MAMMALIA 119 

hydrogen, and oxygen, deposited in animal tissues. It consists 
of the organic acids, stearic, palmitic, and oleic, combined with 
the radical glyceryl to form stearin, palmitin, and olein. Oil is 
a neutral body in animal and vegetable tissues, which is liquid at 
ordinary temperatures, and is also composed of stearin, olein, and 
palmitin in various proportions. Palmitin is a solid crystalline 
substance contained in palm-oil and many other fatty substances. 
Stearin is the hard and chief substance contained in suet and 
many other animal fats. It is a stearoptene or solid oil, so called 
in contradistinction to olein, another fatty material contained in 
many fats and oils, which is liquid, and called an ' oleoptene.' 
The fat or suet of beef and mutton is a combination of the solid 
fats palmitin and stearin, mingled with the liquid olein in such a 
proportion that the fat remains liquid in the cells of the living 
body, and outside of it too, when kept at the temperature of the 
blood. The greater the proportion of stearin in any fat, the more 
soUd the mixture will be at ordinary temperatures ; but the 
greater the proportion of olein, so much the more liquid will the 
fat be at ordinary temperatures. 

The chief use of fat in the animal economy is to yield heat and 
energy by its oxidation ; it also affords protection to various 
delicate structures, and gives to the body that contour or curva- 
ture which is called the line of beauty. The 2tse of fat in our food 
is a necessity ; its presence promotes the flow of the bile and 
pancreatic juice, and it enriches the chyle. When fat is entirely 
absent from the food these secretions are deficient, consequently 
the food is not properly digested, nor the functions of the intes- 
tines duly performed ; indeed, an entire absence of fat from the 
food leads to malnutrition, and creates a predisposition to such 
diseases as scrofula, tubercle, phthisis, and other wasting diseases. 
An excess of fat in the diet is not of much consequence, as it may 
pass out of the system with the excreta. Fat can be manufactured 
in the body, causing an increase of weight, by an excessive use of 
lean meat or a diet rich in starch or sugar. An excess of these 
foods when assimilated may lead to the deposition of fat around 
important organs and in the subcutaneous tissues, thereby inducing 
obesity and other ailments ; nevertheless, it is deemed advisable 
that fat should always be an article of food, for its absence is 
not well borne, and leads to rapid loss of flesh and strength and 



120 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

vitality, and lays the foundation for many diseases. That there 
is an equal necessity for proteid material, be it meat, fish, eggs, 
milk, peas, beans, lentils ; that man, in common with all other 
animals, cannot assimilate unorganized nitrogen, but is depen- 
dent upon proteids for his supply ; that the absence of proteid 
food cannot be tolerated ; that the nitrogen it contains is a 
necessity for the continuance of life ; that people who do not 
eat a moderate amount of meat, fish, game, or other animai 
substance, nor take such substitutes as peas, beans, or lentils, 
suffer from jnoteid starvation in consequence, with ill-health, an 
enfeebled frame, and many evils which follow in their train, has 
already been shown. 

The time necessary for the digestion of meat depends entirely 
upon its firmness, richness, moisture, or dryness — upon its proper 
mastication and subdivision ; and, while the dangers of uncooked 
or under-cooked meat are well known, it should also be observed 
that over-cooking delays its digestion. The complete digestion of 
pork requires five hours ; beef, four hours ; roast mutton, three 
and a half hours ; boiled mutton, three hours ; lamb, about two 
and a half hours ; chicken, rabbit, pheasant, about two and a 
half to three hours ; venison, two hours ; tripe, one hour. The 
digestion of animal food is well provided for in the human 
economy, and the process has been dealt with in a previous 
chapter. Briefly, the digestion of lean meat begins in the 
stomach, where the gastric juice dissolves the connective tissue, 
separates the muscular fibres, liberates the fat, and converts 
some of the proteid through various stages into peptone. The 
latter, being soluble and highly diffusible, is absorbed into the 
blood through the coats of the stomach, and re-formed into some 
kind of proteid, probably serum -albumin. Such meat as is not 
peptonized in the stomach passes with the chyme into the 
intestines, and is completely peptonized by the enzymes of the 
pancreatic fluid. Fat is liberated from meat by the solution of 
its albuminous coverings, and passes into the intestines with the 
chyme ; it there meets with the bile and pancreatic fluid, which 
emulsify and saponify it, and becomes absorbed. During saponi- 
fication oils and fats are split into glycerine and fatty acid ; 
the acid, joined with an alkaline salt, enters the blood ; 
glycerine is likewise absorbed, and fat is once more made from 



MEAT: THE MAMMALIA 121 

the two constituents. Glycerine which is not thus utilized is 
further decomposed in the system into proprionic, formic, and 
other acids ; and the urine of persons taking glycerine as a food 
or medicine often contains a reducing agent which gives the test 
for sugar, but it is not sugar. Glycerine is prepared as a com- 
mercial product from fat duriug the manufacture of soap and 
other processes. It is sometimes prescribed in large doses for 
phthisis and other wasting diseases in place of cod-liver oil with 
the idea that it is nutritive, and may contribute to the formation 
of fat in the body, but results are very varied, and on the whole 
not encouraging ; indeed, its continued use in large doses may be 
injurious by causing a solution of the red corpuscles, a diffusion 
of hcEmoglobin in the plasma, and consequent haeraoglobinuria. 
Fat is taken into the body in many kinds of food. It forms 
a large percentage of all kinds of meat, and is taken nearly pure 
in butter, suet, lard, dripping, and oil. It forms 2 to 8 per cent, 
of milk, 12 per cent, of eggs, 25 per cent, of cheese, 5-5 per cent 
of oatmeal, 6-7 per cent, of maize, and a smaller percentage of 
bread and vegetables. The fat consumed in our food is not 
deposited directly in our tissues, but undergoes some elaboi'ation 
or chemical change before it becomes a part of us, as is evidenced 
from the changes it undergoes in constitution during digestion. 
Neither does the fat contained in the food account for all that is 
deposited in the tissues ; on the contrary, it is formed in the body 
from the consumption of meat, sugar, and starch, for men and 
animals whose diet consists solely of starches and sugars, or 
things containing them, ' lay on flesh,' their increased weight 
being due to formation of fat within their body. In like manner 
it has been proved experimentally that 50 per cent, of the proteids 
consumed by animals may be converted into fat. Foster says : 
' Proteid is split in the body into a urea moiety and a fatty 
moiety. The urea moiety is discharged at once, and such of the 
fatty moiety as is not made use of is stored up in the body 
as adipose tissue.' When a larger quantity of food is consumed 
than is required for immediate use, a portion of it is stored up as 
fat in various tissues and organs, and glycogen accumulates in the 
liver. 

Glycogen is animal starch (C,,Hj(P.), and is isomeric with 
starch and dextrin. It is found in all growing cells and tissues. 



122 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

in coloarless blood cells, and especially in the cells of the liver. 
The proportion in the liver varies under different circumstances 
and in different animals from 2 to 12 per cent. ; the liver of 
domestic fowls often contains as much as 13 per cent. When an 
excess of any kind of food is taken, glycogen accumulates in the 
liver in large quantities ; carbohydrates, as sugar and starch, 
cause the greatest formation, proteids give rise to some, fat 
to none, gelatine to none, and a mixed diet causes the greatest 
accumulation. Glycogen is the carbohydrate of which the liver 
is the great storehouse, for immediate or future use, for the 
production of heat and energy when food is scarce or unusual 
demands are made upon the body. There is a constant propor- 
tion of 0'5 per cent, of sugar in the blood, by which it is carried 
to every part of the body for producing heat and muscular force, 
the source of which is the liver. 

We thus perceive that our fleshy food contains, besides proteid 
and fat, important substances distributed through its parts in 
various proportions — as glycogen in the liver ; products of the 
disintegration of proteids in liver, kidney, and sweet-bread ; 
phosphorus compounds, especially in large proportion in brain 
and nervous tissues ; iron occurs in the red flesh of animals, and 
is especially abundant in the liver, where it exists in several 
peculiar compounds of the liver cells, and is probably derived 
from the disintegration of the haemoglobin of the blood coursing 
through it, and is in turn discharged from the system with 
the bile. 

References : Parkes, ' Hygiene and Public Health.' Yeo's ' Food in Health 
and Disease.' Foster's 'Physiology,' vol. ii. Power's 'Human Physiology.' 



CHAPTEE X 

AVES: THE BIRDS 

A VERY great variety of food is furnished to mankind by birds of 
the Natural Order Carinata, the flying birds with a keeled sternum. 
The class of Gallinaceae includes the domestic fowls, pheasants, 
partridges, quails, peacocks, turkeys, guinea-fowl, grouse, and many 
others ; the subclass Columbte contains many varieties of pigeons 



AVES: THE BIEDS 123 

the class of Natatores, or swimmers, yields the ducks, geese, 
widgeons ; the Grallte, or waders, include snipe, plover, water- 
hen ; and the Passeres rooks, larks, finches, thrushes, starlings, 
linnets, sparrows. There is a wide field of supply, and a great 
choice to be had in the proper seasons. The domesticated 
birds have white flesh, and are said to be less nutritive and 
stimulating than the wild birds. Wild species, like partridges 
and grouse, have dark flesh, which is more highly flavoured, even 
slightly bitter, from their eating the tops of birch, heather, and 
mountain berries, which give a distinctive but not unpleasant 
flavour to their flesh. As food they are more nutritious, heating, 
and stimulating than the white flesh of fowls, pigeons, or 
pheasants. The flesh of birds, like all young animals, contains 
more nucleo-albumin than that of beef or mutton, and for that 
reason is not suitable for certain patients. Dark-fleshed ones 
have been supposed to contain more extractives than white- 
fleshed ones, but it has been proved that the difference is so 
slight as to be negligible in making a dietary for patients. The 
reason why chicken or pheasant, for instance, is more easily 
digested than beef or mutton is because their muscular fibres are 
free from fat and have very little connective tissue, and are, 
therefore, more readily attacked by the gastric juice ; duck and 
goose, on the other hand, have much oil in their flesh, which 
renders them more difficult of digestion, and the oil is of a more 
or less peculiar character, and is apt to disagree with many people. 
The whole gallinaceous family makes a valuable addition to 
our materia aUmentaria. From the smallest to the largest their 
llesh is light, full of flavour, and fitted equally for an invalid or 
robust person. Much, of course, depends upon their nutrition, 
age, sex, and time since they were slaughtered, the flavour and 
tenderness of some being improved by ' hanging ' for a few days 
prior to cooking, during which time a game flavour is developed. 
Pasteur always asserted that the change which produces the 
game flavour takes place in a pre-putrefactive stage ; but the 
birds want watching lest it degenerate into decided putrefaction, 
lor the line of demarcation is very narrow, and may be easily 
passed. The putrefactive bacteria are not themselves disease- 
producers, and this accounts for the fact that game when eaten 
hot is often harmless, even though it be very ' high '; but the heat 



124 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

which destroys bacteria may not have destroyed the bacterial 
ferments, so that cold game, even when previously well cooked, 
sometimes produces alarming symptoms, due to violent inflam- 
matory irritation of the alimentary canal, with cramp of the 
extremities and failure of the heart's action, because the bacterial 
ferments have acted upon the albuminous portion of the flesh and 
produced albumoses, leucomaines, or ptomaines, which have a 
physiological action very similar to the poisonous alkaloid known 
as muscarin. 

Fowls, pheasants, partridges, turkeys, grouse, quails, and all the 
other members of this numerous family, may be ranked amongst 
the most nutritious of our foods, innocent and easily digestible, 
if well kept and free from putrefaction. A well-fattened fowl 
(GallinaB and many varieties) is always handy and acceptable to 
the cook, for it can be cooked in every way and shape. The flesh 
of a young chicken is the most delicate and easy of digestion of 
any animal, excepting a few of the lighter kinds of fish, and its 
entire freedom from irritating qualities renders it fit for an invalid 
or a person whose stomach is naturally weak and unable to digest 
stronger meat. Age and sex influence the quality of a bird's flesh 
as it does that of other animals ; in infancy cocks and hens are 
equally toothsome, but the flesh of male birds toughens quicker 
than that of females ; a year-old cock is fit for little else than 
soup, but at that age a hen is tender, though substantial. Age 
does not affect capons or castrated male birds as it does entire 
ones ; indeed, the flesh of a capon remains as juicy, tender, and 
well-flavoured at three years of age as that of a chicken ; there is 
scarcely a more delicious dish. 

Pheasant (Phasianus and varieties) has white and tender flesh; 
when hung for a week after killing it has a flavour between 
chicken and venison ; but authorities state that unless it is kept 
for the proper tenderness and game flavour to develop it difi'ers 
little from the common fowl — that, indeed, a pullet would be 
preferable and a quail surpass it ; hen birds are the most 
delicate. Partridge {Pcrdri.v cinerius) should be eaten young ; 
old ones are valueless. The flesh of quail (Coturnix vulgaris) is 
excellent food. Grouse (Tetrao and varieties), blackcock or 
moorfowl, woodcock, ptarmigan, ortalan, and many other birds, 
are very nutritious. Peacock [Pavo cristatus) has a fine tender 



AVES: THE BIEDS 125 

flesh, which was formerly much esteemed. Turkey {Meleaijvls 
(jallo-'pavo) is delicate, tender, nourishing, and of excellent flavour; 
age depreciates its value for the table. The flesh is whitish-gray, 
free from excessive fat, and therefore preferable to goose. Guinea- 
fowl {N'limida meleagris) has flesh of fine flavour and easy of 
digestion ; not so white as that of the domestic fowl, but 
approaching that of the pheasant, for which it is an excellent 
substitute. Young pigeons (Columbae) are very wholesome. 
The Natatores afford many specimens which are in frequent 
demand for the table — as the goose (Anser and varieties), which 
lives chiefly on land and feeds upon grass, etc. ; the wild duck 
{Anas boschus), also called the mallard, which is the parent of 
the common duck (A. domesticus) ; and the widgeon [Marcca 
pcnelope) has always been in request for the table. The 
flesh of these birds is darker, richer in fat, and not so easily 
digested as that of Gallinacese ; the oil is of a peculiarly strong 
odour, and some people cannot digest it : it makes them bilious. 
The flesh of duck, though oily and rank, is easier of digestion and 
not so gross as that of goose. x\mong the Grallge, the snipe 
{Scolopax gallinago) has a fishy taste, derived from its food ; but 
the water-hen {Gallimcla chloropus) has well-flavoured flesh, and 
the plover (varieties of Charadrius fluviatilis) is a favourite with 
many people, a game flavour being developed by ' hanging.' The 
Passeres include many which have been eaten for food— as the 
rook {Corvus fntgilegus), larks (varieties of Alaiula arvensis), 
finches and linnets (Fringillidae), starlings (Shirnus vulgaris), 
thrushes (varieties of Turdus), and sparrows [Pyrgita domes- 
ticus). Some of these, especially the rooks and larks, are much 
sought after, the flesh of the latter being esteemed a great 
delicacy. 

Birds' eggs are good for food in any form, boiled, poached, 
tried, in omelettes, custards, egg-flip, puddings, or prepared in any 
other way. Those of the domestic fowl are very delicious and 
highly esteemed when new laid, but the quality depends likewise 
upon the feeding of the birds. Turkey's eggs are nearly as mild 
as those of the common fowl. Plover's and lapwing's eggs are 
nutritive, and thought exceedingly delicious by some people. 
Guinea-fowl's eggs are smaller but more delicate than hen's eggs. 
Goose's eggs are well flavoured, but duck's are very rich, and 



126 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

both are heavy and oily. Wild birds' eggs generally taste of the 
food they eat ; sea-fowl's have a fishy taste. 

In point of nutriment and digestibility, eggs rank very high 
indeed ; they contain a large amount of albumin and fat. But it 
does not follow that they are food for everybody ; on the contrary, 
some persons cannot digest them, and they make others bilious. 
The digestibility of eggs depends upon the cooking ; raw eggs are 
not so easily digested as when the albumin is slightly coagulated 
by heat. A poached egg, or one which is boiled until the white is 
just set, is the easiest of digestion ; but the digestibility diminishes 
in proportion to the hardness to which it is cooked. A fried egg 
is the hardest of all to digest, the indigestibility being increased 
by cooking it in fat. Eaw eggs are laxative, boiled ones are 
constipating. 

The composition of the egg of the domestic fowl, being most in 
demand, may be taken as a type. The yolk forms /o, white 
1%, shell iVi the average weight is 2 ounces. Eighteen eggs 
would be required to provide a man with enough nutriment for 
flesh-forming and energy-producing elements for an ordinary 
day's work. Parkes gives this composition : Proteid, 13-5 per cent. ; 
fat, 11-6 ; and water, 73-5. Power gives a separate analysis for 
each part : The white consists of albumin, 13 per cent. ; globulin, 
0-134; salts, etc., 0-766 ; water, 86. The yolk contains vitellin 
(proteid), 14-0 per cent.; fat and lecithin, 30; nuclein, 1-5; 
cholesterin, 1-75; salts and colouring matter, 0-75; water, 52. 
The average egg contains about 0-045 per cent, of phosphorus, 
the white has only 0-031, but the yolk 1-279 per cent, in vitellin, 
lecithin, nuclein, phosphates, and glycerophosphates. 

REPTILIA AND BATRACHI^. 

The turtle is the chief member of the Eeptilia used for food. 
The green turtle {Chclonia mtjades) is much prized for making 
soup ; its flesh is highly esteemed, and furnishes a wholesome 
and palatable food for mariners and others in every latitude of 
the torrid zone. Turtle soup is highly stimulating and exceedingly 
nourishing. Terrapins are tortoises eaten in warm, temperate, 
and tropical climates ; iguana and agama are lizards eaten in 
South America and Africa. Among Batrachians, Bana escidenta 



THE FISHES: PISCES 127 

is the frog whose hind quarters are highly esteemed as food and 
commonly eaten in France and Germany. 

THE FISHES : PISCES. 

Among the principal fishes commonly used for food are the 
following : 

1. The Bony Fishes, or Teleostei. 

Subdivision Malacopteri : (a) Salmonid^e, the Salmon family. 
Salmon (Sahiio salar) is both a sea and fresh water fish, its 
normal locality being about the mouth of rivers, up which it 
ascends in the season for spawning. The young go out to sea 
when they are only a few ounces in weight, and return to the 
river after a few months transformed into well-developed fish. 
They grow to 15 or 30 pounds weight in two or three years, and 
at that age make a delicious dish for the table and an important 
aiticle of commerce. Salmon is perhaps the most nutritious fish 
of the genus ; it contains 15 per cent, of proteid and 6-5 of fat, but 
it is heating and oily, and not very digestible ; most persons find 
it necessary to take vinegar, lemon, or some other condiment with 
it ; lobster sauce is a frequent accompaniment, and adds to the 
indigestibility of the meal. Salmon-trout {S. trutta) is of the 
same family, and ranks next to salmon, which it resembles in 
lorm and colour. It is not so rich and oily as the former, is 
easier of digestion, but less nutritious. Trout (S. fario) is the 
common or gray trout ; there are other species also — ^all are 
estimable food. Candle-fish, caplin, and namaycush, are highly 
esteemed members of the family in America. Char is S. iimhla 
and others of the Salmonidse which inhabit lakes of pure water 
— most delicious fish. Grayling {Thymallus vulgaris), about 
16 or 18 inches long, lives in clear and rapid streams, and forms 
excellent food. The whitefish of North i\.merica (Coregonus 
aiipidus, genus Coregonus) is near to salmon in rank, and is 
by many people esteemed the finest of all fish. 

(&) Clupeidae, the Herring family. There are two species of 
herring {Clupea harengus, or the common herring, and C. leachii, 
which is shorter). The common herring lives in latitudes from 
Kamtschatka in the North to Carolina in the South. It is very 
productive, 68,000 eggs having been found in the roe of one 



128 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

female. They swim in shoals near the surface, and seek the 
coast to deposit their ova for hatching. They are easily caught 
by nets, and the herring fishery is an important and lucrative 
business. They are nutritious, and contain 10 per cent, of proteid 
and 7 of fat. Whitebait {C. alba) is a small fish of the 
herring family, 2 to 5 inches long ; it abounds in large rivers, as 
the Thames and Humber ; much prized as an article of food. 
Sprats {Harengula sin'attus) are also a delicious, well-flavoured, 
and wholesome fish. Shad (Alosa vulgaris and other species) 
attains to a length of 3 feet ; the British species have a rather 
dry flesh and are not much prized ; but those of America are much 
nicer, being highly esteemed and eaten in quantities. Sardines 
(G. sardinus) are small fish esteemed for their flavour ; they are 
salted, dried, or scalded in hot oil, with or without spices, 
and preserved in hermetically-sealed tins. Pilchards (C. pi/- 
chardus) are also small fish, and, being preserved like sardines', 
form a considerable article of commerce. Anchovy {Engraulis 
encraslcholus) also belongs to the Clupeidae ; there are several 
species of small size which live in the Mediterranean and tropical 
seas ; used chiefly for pickles, paste, and sauce. Anchovy sauce 
is made by pounding them in water, simmering with cayenne 
pepper, and rubbing them through a sieve. Paste is similarly 
made. Sometimes colouring and other matters are added. 
Anchovy paste or sauce is not always what it is represented to 
be, as sprats or other small fry have been used to make it up, 
being coloured, flavoured, or even mixed with red clay. 

(c) The Gadidae, or Cod family, supplies us with several 
important and highly useful members. The cod is Gadus 
viorrhua or Morrhua vulgaris, and other species. This is a 
teleostean fish inhabiting northern seas between 45° and 66°, and 
especially abundant in the seas of Norway and Iceland, about the 
banks of Newfoundland and New England, and the seas north of 
Scotland in the neighbourhood of the Orkneys. They are an im- 
portant article of food ; the best are caught from February to 
April ; some are very large, and may attain 100 pounds weight. 
The oil obtained from the liver is pale to brown in colour, and is 
justly esteemed a valuable agent in the treatment of scrofula, 
phthisis, rheumatism, and other diseases. Hake {Merlucius 
vulgaris) belongs to the cod family, and is found in the shoals of 



THE FISHES: PISCES 129 

herrings on which it preys. Salted and dried, it is a palatable 
article of food. Haddock (Gadiis agleflnus), smaller than cod, 
is also a well-known member of the family, which breeds in 
immense numbers in northern seas, and is a considerable article 
of food. It is best and most palatable when only of middle size ; 
fresh haddock is intended whenever it is ordered for an invalid. 
Whiting [Mcrlangus vulgaris) likewise belongs to them, and 
abounds on British coasts ; it excels all the other members in 
delicacy and lightness as an article of food. 

(rf) Anguillge, or Eels, are both fresh and sea water fish, but 
conger-eel is entirely marine. Both are used for food ; their flesh 
s firm and makes a substantial meal, but is objectionable to 
some persons because it contains a large proportion of oil and is 
somewhat indigestible. Eels contain 13 per cent, of proteid and 
28 of fat. 

(e) Cyprinidae, or the Carp family, contain both marine and 
fresh-water fishes, many of which are prized by fishermen. 
Carp {Cyprinus carpio) is an excellent fish which grows in ponds, 
and may attain a length of 4 feet. Eoach (C. rutilus) lives in 
lakes, ponds, and slow streams; its average weight is less than 
a pound, for which reason it is not much esteemed for the table, 
but it is a great favourite with anglers. Bream is the name of 
several fresh-water fish belonging to this family ; the carp-bream 
[Abramis-brama) sometimes attains a weight of 10 or 12 pounds. 
Tench [Tinea vulgaris) is a stuall fish in the lakes aud ponds of 
Europe, 10 or 12 inches long ; its flesh is coarse and insipid. 
Dace {Leuctscus vulgaris) is also a small fish in deep, clear waters 
and quiet streams ; although good sport, it is not a very useful 
food. Gudgeon (Gobio fluviatilis) is another small fish of fresh 
waters, little used for food, but more as a bait for pike. 

(/) The Pike {Esox lucius) is a malacopterygious fish which 
lives in deep fresh water, and is very palatable food. Perch 
(Perca fluviatilis) belongs to the Acanthopterygii ; it lives in 
the rivers and lakes of temperate regions ; its flesh is firm, but 
a delicate food. Loach is a smal Ifish (Gobitis barhilata, genus 
Cobitis) which inhabits the clear streams of England, and is 
esteemed a dainty food. 

(g) The Scomber or Mackerel family. Mackerel (&'. scomber) 
is a well-known table fish of excellent qualities, which inhabits 

9 



130 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

all European seas ; there are several species, and, like herrings, 
they are caught when they approach the coasts for spawning. 
Mackerel is a type of many fishes forming the family of Scomber, 
mostly excellent for the table, of which the following are examples : 
Tunny {Thynnus vulgaris), a close ally of mackerel, lives in shoals 
in the seas of all temperate and warmer parts of the earth ; it 
may grow from 4 to 20 feet long and weigh ^ ton ; its flesh is a 
great delicacy, somewhat resembling veal, and much in request. 

(/() The Doree, or John Dory (Zeus Faber), is a fish of the 
seas, seldom exceeding 15 or 18 inches, but esteemed very delicate 
eating. Ling (Lota molva), of the genus Lota, abounds around 
the coasts of Britain, grows to 4 or more feet long, and is eaten 
fresh or salted. Mullet — there are two kinds belonging to the 
Acanthopterygii. The gray mullet {Mugil capita and varieties), 
found around the coast, ascends the rivers or seeks shallow 
water in the spring; it has a habit of boring in the mud or sand 
for its food ; it grows to 18 or 20 inches long, and may weigh 
12 to 15 pounds. The red mullet — surmullet — is Mullus bar- 
batus, which inhabits the Mediterranean Sea ; it is smaller than 
its gray relative, and only attains about 1 foot in length ; it has 
always been esteemed a delicacy by epicures, and was extrava- 
gantly prized by the Eomans. 

(i) The Pleuronectidge, or Flat Fishes. Flounder (Platcssa 
flesus) is the type of the tiat fishes, some of which are important 
articles of food. The flounder is one of the most common flat 
fishes ; it is found in the sea, near the mouth of large rivers and 
around the coasts, but mostly where the bottom consists of soft 
sand or mud. Flounders live and thrive in the sea, in fresh or 
brackish water, and have been transferred from one to the other ; 
they feed upon small fishes, worms, and water insects, and may 
attain a weight of 4 pounds. Halibut (Hippoglossus vulgaris) is 
much larger, and may attain any weight up to 300 pounds. It is 
a common article of food ; the flesh is firm, but some parts of the 
body are fat, tender, and delicious. Turbot {Bhombus maximus) 
is the largest of flat fishes, after the halibut ; many of a few 
pounds in weight are brought to the table, but they attain 60 or 
70 pounds in weight. It is exceedingly light food, and highly 
esteemed for the table. The American tui'bot {Rhombus viacu- 
latus) is equally delicious, and not so large. Brill {Pleuronectes 



THE FISHES: PISCES 



131 



rhomhis) resembles turbot, but is inferior to it in size and quality. 
Plaice (Platessa vulgaris vel plcuronectes ijlatessa) is more flat 
and square than halibut, grows up to 7 or 8 pounds in weight, 
and is highly esteemed as a light article of food. Sole {Solea 
vulgaris) is an oblong flat fish which abounds in all seas near 
the coasts of Europe, except where the bottom is sandy ; some- 
times they ascend the rivers and thrive well in them ; they grow 
to a weight of 6 or 7 pounds, and are a wholesome and delicious 
food of a light character, containing about 11 per cent, of nitro- 
genous matters and less than 1 per cent, of fat. 

The Composition of Cooked Fish. 













100 Parts 0¥ the Dried 




As SERVED 


AT Table 




Flesh, 


ABSOLUTELY WaTER- 












FREE, contained : 


Name. 


Waste, 
Boue, 

etc. 


Gelatine. 


I 

Water. 


Nutri- 
ents. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 




Per Cent. 


Per Cent. 


Per Cent. 


Per Cent. 


Per Cent. 


Per Cent 


Per Cent. 


Herring, fresh 


11-7 


0-63 


52-9 


35-5 


67-0 


25-0 





Herring, salt 


— 


— 


46-0 


53-9 


38-0 


22-0 


170 


Sprats 


17-9 


0-90 


61-5 


19-7 










Sardines 


4-9 


— 


42-1 


52-9 











Salmon 


5-9 


0-53 


61-0 


32-0 


55-6 


29-5 


14-8 


Salmon i^eel 


17-8 


0-21 


35-5 


48-4 









Salmon, Cali- 
















fornian . . . 


— 


— 


61-9 


38-1 


56-5 


34-2 


4-3 


Trout 


8-2 


0-55 


671 


24-1 


80-0 


8-4 


4-6 


Smelts 


18-8 


0-38 


65-2 


15-5 





. 




Eels 


11-6 


1-09 


53-2 


33-9 


42-9 


44-6 


8-9 


Red mullet... 


24-2 


2-41 


50-0 


23-2 


66-2 


24-5 


9-7 


Roach 


24-3 


0-65 


56-5 


18-4 


79-1 


15-0 


6-2 


Gurnard 


46-3 


0-65 


39-1 


13-9 


89-1 


1-8 


14-7 


Mackerel 


10 5 


0-25 


65-2 


24-0 


62-3 


25-7 


13-9 


Tunny 


— 


— 


69-3 


36-5 


66-0 


30-6 





Cod 


15-9 


0-43 


63-7 


19-7 


91-5 


1-1 


6-6 


Cod, salt ... 


6-1 


0-33 


67-6 


25-9 










Haddock ... 


35-1 


0-80 


46-4 


17-6 


79-5 


1-2 


13-1 


Whiting 


21-5 


0-86 


61-2 


16-3 


79-5 


18 


17-5 


Hake 


7-8 


0-26 


78-0 


13-8 


81-3 


5-6 


13-6 


Turbot 


31-2 


0-.59 


530 


151 


84-7 


4-7 


11-8 


Brill 


8-1 


0-19 


57'4 


34-1 


93-7 


1-6 




Halibut 


6-8 


0-03 


69-3 


23-7 


79-6 


15-8 





Plaice 


— . 


— 


79-8 


20-1 


75-1 


9-8 


11-5 


Sole 


22-0 


0-74 


61-1 


16-0 


86-7 


1-7 


11-8 


Lemon sole . . 


261 


1-42 


56-5 


15-8 I 


69-8 


12-8 


14-8 


John Dory ... 


20-9 : 


0-98 


60-8 


17-2 


69-5 


8-5 


14'2 


Oysters ... ' 


— 


— 


77-7 


22-2 


65-4 


7-7 


18-3 



9-2 



132 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

2. The Elasmobranchii, or Cartilaginous Fishes. 

Skate, or ray {Bala hatis), is the principal cartilaginous fish 
used for food ; it is depressed and flat, of rhomboidal form ; its 
flesh is gelatinous and highly nutritive. Sturgeon (AcijJeriser 
sturio) is a ganoid fish whose flesh is wholesome and agreeable 
food, delicate, well-flavoured, and resembles veal ; the air-bladder 
is made into the finest isinglass, and consists of almost pure 
gelatine ; the roe is made into caviare, a rich and highly nutritious 
food. Lamprey is an eel-like fish (Petromyzon), of the order 
Marsipobranchii : there are river and sea varieties, the latter 
attaining a weight of 4 or 5 pounds ; they attach themselves to 
other fishes and suck their blood, and also eat various kinds of 
animal matter. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

Fish as an article of diet is somewhat less nutritive than 
either meat or game, when taken weight for weight. An analysis 
of white fish shows it to contain 18 per cent, of proteid, 3 of 
fat, 1 of salts, and 78 of water; as against 27-5 of proteid, 
15"5 of fat, 3 of salts, and 54 of water, in cooked meat. Most 
kinds of fish contain more water, therefore less nutriment, so 
that a greater bulk of fish must be eaten to represent the same 
proportion of other animal food. At the same time, fish is lighter, 
non-stimulating, and easier of digestion than meat or game, 
especially if taken without heating sauces or cooked with little 
butter or fat ; and being much sooner digested, in one or two 
hours, according to firmness of the fibre, the stomach is more 
quickly ready for another meal. These facts — low proportion of 
nutriment, freedom from fat, laxity of fibre, non-stimulating 
character, and consequent rapid digestion — militate against fish 
as a source of proteid and energy for working men. It is never- 
theless a valuable article of food, and is not sufficiently appreciated 
by many people, because it does not satisfy the appetite, like 
meat, and hunger sooner returns ; but the health and vigour of 
fishermen and their families, and the inhabitants generally of 
fishing towns, prove it to be sufficiently nourishing for all practical 
purposes. From the nature and texture of fish, and its not 
requiring laborious work by the stomach, it is suited as a diet for 
those in early convalescence ; but its low nutritive value is not 



THE FISHES. PISCES 133 

calculated to restore power in those debilitated by disease. 
Turbot, cod, whiting, haddock, flounder, brill, sole, plaice, are 
the least stimulating and the easiest digested, and consequently 
most suited for all invalids. Taking turbot as a type, the flaki- 
ness of the flesh and its opaque appearance after being cooked are 
indications of its freshness and goodness. When the fish is in its 
greatest perfection there is a layer of white curdy matter between 
the muscular flakes ; on the other hand, a bluish, semi-trans- 
parent condition of the flesh after being cooked shows the fish is 
not in condition and should be rejected. Turbot is an excellent 
food, but may be rendered indigestible by the addition of lobster 
sauce. Whiting is well adapted for weak stomachs, on account of 
the laxity of its fibres ; it is fairly nutritious and unstimulating. 
Haddock resembles it, but is of firmer texture. Sole and plaice 
are also tender, and yet sufliciently firm, but easy of digestion, 
and afford proper nutriment for persons of weak digestion. Cod 
has a denser fibre than any of the above, also more glutinous 
matter, and is an excellent food for the invalid and robust ; on 
the whole, it is not so easy of digestion as the former, and it 
makes a division between the light kinds of fish and those heavier 
ones which are not suitable for invalids. Cod is generally pre- 
ferred when large, but its flesh is then coarser. The heavier 
kinds of fish, as the salmon family, and mackerel, tunny, ling, 
mullet, halibut, and others, which are somewhat richer in nourish- 
ment, firmer, contain more oil, and require a longer digestion, are 
only suitable for persons in good health and with fair digestive 
powers. Some kinds of fish do not agree with every person — e.g., 
mackerel, even when quite fresh, has been known to make persons 
exceedingly ill for a day or two. 

The prevalence of leprosy in certain districts where fish is a 
common article of food has caused medical men of note to urge 
that the eating of fish in large quantities is the fons et origo mail ; 
but others as stoutly urge that eating fish has nothing to do with 
it. The latter state that leprosy is an infectious or contagious 
disease spread amongst the people who have it by dirty habits 
and unhygienic surroundings. The inhabitants of the shores of 
Great Britam have always been large fish-eaters, and, whereas 
leprosy was once a common disease there, it is now, happily, 
unknown ; nevertheless, it was never confined to the coasts, 



134 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

whose inhabitants would naturally be the largest eaters of fish, 
as is proved by the remains of lazar or leper houses in the inland 
towns and country districts. The problem of the origin of 
leprosy, like many others, is a complicated one ; it is probable 
that the growth of the specific germ or bacillus is favoured by 
dirt and conditions of ill-health which still exist in Britain as 
elsewhere, although the disease has died out, and is rarely seen 
except in those who bring it from foreign countries, where the 
disease is still prevalent both in districts where fish is largely 
eaten and in others far from the coast where fish is almost 
unknown as an article of diet. Wherever there is an extensive 
coast, the inhabitants have always eaten largely of fish ; thus 
the Greeks esteemed it highly as a food, while the Eomans had 
their favourite dishes, and the mullet was extravagantly prized by 
them. The inhabitants of Britain must always have had an 
abundance and have eaten largely of the best kinds ; and modern 
Britons, who delight in light, wholesome, nourishing food, have 
an abundance at their doors, some of which are highly valuable 
for their lightness, nutritiveness, and ease of digestion. It is the 
object and duty of medical men to impress these facts upon the 
public, in whose interests a freer use of fish is a point of im- 
portance. 

THE MOLLUSCA : SHELL-FISHES. 

(a) Lamellibranchiata. 
Oysters {Ostrca edulis) and species are well-known eatable mol- 
uscs which live in shallow salt water, or at the mouth of rivers 
in a mixture of salt and fresh water. They are eatable at a year 
and a half old, and are in their prime at three years. Oysters are 
also cultivated in artificial beds, and these, called natives, are 
considered to be superior to those dredged from the natural beds. 
They contain about 22 per cent, of nutrients, including proteid 
5 per cent., carbohydrate 15, and fat 1, as well as mineral salts, 
in a readily assimilable form, especially the coagulable albumins, 
glycogen, organic phosphorus, and a substance which on being 
heated develops what is called osmazone ; a trace of copper 
appears to be always present, and they contain about the same 
amount of water as beef and mutton. They are considered 
delicious by many people, who eat them raw or cooked, but they 
are more easily digested in their raw state, as cooking coagulates 



THE MOLLUSCA: SHELL-FISHES 135 

the albumin and makes them harder to digest than a boiled egg. 
They are taken along with stout and other beverages, which, 
however, are unnecessary. The best solvent, next to cold water, 
is diluted gin ; Chablis and champagne are also good, but stout 
has no effect upon them. The connection of oysters with 
epidemics of typhoid fever indicates to us that extreme care 
should be exercised in the situation of artificial beds, so that 
there may be no chance of pollution by sewage ; for, although it is 
known that oysters fatten upon sewage or something they extract 
from it, it cannot be disputed that several epidemics, attended 
by fatal results, have been caused by eating such oysters. 

Mussels (Mytilus edulis) ; the common mussels, abundant 
around the coasts of Britain, in the Mediterranean and North 
Seas ; largely used for food. Some people cannot safely eat 
mussels, as these molluscs irritate them and cause urticaria. The 
mussels are liable to be out of condition ; they may not be fresh, 
or they may have been gathered from a ship's bottom ; or there 
may be developed in them the ptomaine, mytilo-toxin, which, 
when consumed, will cause ptomaine -poisoning, with its un- 
pleasant symptoms and consequences {q.v.). ' Musselling,' or 
mussel-poisoning, usually consists of sickness, vomiting, perhaps 
purging, and the appearance of urticaria or ' nettle-rash ' upon 
the skin. The latter is an eruption of firm round patches or 
elongated wheals, which at first are pink, but soon become white 
in the centre ; very rarely a blister appears upon the swelling, 
and the eruption is attended by intolerable itching. The proper 
remedy is an emetic and purgative to clear away the offending 
fish, and the free use of alkalies as a medicine and a lotion. 

Cockles {Cardium edule) are common on sandy shores. They 
are used for food, and are of the same nutritive value as mussels. 
Like oysters, they have been associated with outbreaks of enteric 
fever, owing to similar contamination. 

Clams {Mya arenaria), and several other bivalves, of which one 
is Tridacna gigas, a huge shell-fish, are nutritive, but not easily 
digested. Clams, however, make a highly nourishing and stimu- 
lating soup. 

(&) Gasteropoda. 

The Limpet {Patella vulgata), whelk {Buccinum imdatiDii), and 
periwinkle {Littorina litlorea), are all eaten for food. Helix 



136 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

jwmatia is the Escargot or snail so largely cultivated in France 
and elsewhere as food, and is highly esteemed by many people. 
Most of the Gasteropods are really nutritive, from the amount 
of albumin and phosphorus they contain. 

CRUSTACEA. 

Lobster (Homarus vulgaris), Norway lobster (Nethrops), sea 
crayfish {Palinuncs vulgaris), fresh-water crayfish (^Astacus Jiuvia- 
titis), crab {Cancer esculenta), shrimp (Crangon vulgaris), prawns 
(Palaemon and Panalus). According to Payen, lobster contains 
19 per cent, of proteid in the flesh and 12 per cent, in the interior. 
The others are all tasty morsels, relishes of no very high nutritive 
value, but often exceedingly useful as aids to the appetite. 
Caramote is a large shrimp caught in great numbers in the 
Mediterranean, and salted for exportation. Trepangs, or sea- 
cucumbers, which belong to the Echinodermata, are largely used 
in China and Eastern Asia for making soup. 

Refei;ences : Parkes, 'Hygiene.' Power's ' Human Pliysiology.' Williams, 
Trans. Chem. Soc, 1897, 649. Jour, ^tate Med., January, 1905. Yeo's 'Food in 
Health and Disease.' 



CHAPTEK XI 
SOUP, BEEF-TEA, JELLY 

In making soup or broth the meat should be cut into small 
pieces and soaked for some time in the cold water which is to 
be used, a little salt being added to assist in dissolving the 
albumin. The meat and liquid are then slowly heated to about 
150" F., at which temperature it is kept for a long time, finally 
boiling it for a few minutes to insure the destruction of bacteria, 
and using pressure to extract the fluid. Broth, the very best and 
most carefully prepared, never contains more than 6 per cent, of 
nourishment derived from the meat, or about 3 per cent, of dis- 
solved and 3 per cent, of coagulated albumm, besides which the 
liquid contains salts and extractives (creatin, creatinin, inosinic 
and sarcolactic acids, etc.), which give it a flavour, and gelatine, 
which adds to its density. The nutritiousness of soup or broth 
can be greatly increased by the addition of farinaceous materials, 



SOUP, BEEF-TEA, JELLY 137 

such as bean or pea flour, wheaten flour, oatmeal, semolina, rice, 
pearl barley, or vermicelli ; while vegetables, as carrots, turnips, 
onions, celery, or others, add their juices, which are usually rich 
in salts valuable to the economy." 

There is a considerable waste of material in the preparation of 
beef-tea, mutton broth, chicken broth, and other meat infusions 
for sick persons, owing to the desire of presenting to the patient 
food of high nutritive value in small quantities. Beef-tea, for 
instance, is not the nutritious article it was once thought to be ; 
indeed, it is almost the least nourishing of the foods usually given 
to the sick. Like broth, it only contains about 6 per cent, of 
nitrogenous matter from the meat, besides a little carbohydrate 
as glycogen and inosite ; in fact, a pint of beef-tea only contains 
the nutriment of 1 ounce of beef. Patients are usually fastidious 
about their food, and desire that the beef-tea shall be clear. Clear 
beef-tea is just what they can be persuaded to take, but it is of 
little value to anybody as a food. However well and carefully 
prepared, there must be some ' grounds ' at the bottom, consisting 
of coagulated albumin, and forming the principal part of the 
nutriment contained in it. The ' grounds ' may cause the liquid 
to look muddy, which the patient objects to. Clear beef-tea 
contains almost nothing but the extractives, some salt, and 
water. The salts are always out of proportion to the albu- 
minates, and the effect of drinking such a fluid is often an 
increased thirst, rise of temperature, and the certainty that an 
extra burden is thrown upon the system in the form of the ex- 
tractives or waste nitrogenous materials which have to be excreted. 
According to Germain &Vc, beef-tea contains little albumin and 
very little carbohydrate ; the glycogen, inosite, and sarcolactic 
acid of the beef are altogether altered in the beef-tea, and most 
of the fat is removed. The nitrogenous materials, creatin, 
creatinin, carnin, and other quaternary products, to which the 
stimulating effects of beef-tea are due, are of low chemical com- 
position, already on their way to form urea. 

Hassall stated that a pint of beef-tea made from a pound of 
lean meat and hot water contained only 22 grains of nitrogen, 
whereas a pint of beef - tea made from a pound of lean meat 
infused in cold water contained 41 grains of nitrogen. He further 

* Co7is(yiiimie is a soup or broth made by boiling meat and vegetables to a jelly. 



138 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

showed that 14-5 pounds of beef would be required to yield 
enough beef-tea to supply the nitrogenous requirements of an 
individual doing an average day's work, calculating the waste 
nitrogenous matters excreted by the man as 512 grains of urea 
and 12 grains of uric acid. 

Beef-tea, mutton broth, chicken broth, and other meat infu- 
sions, are useful for sick persons, for they are stimulating and 
restoring, and they are recognised now chiefly as stimulants to 
tissue change or to metabolism rather than foods proper. They 
do not prevent wasting of the body ; indeed, when given alone, 
they cause more rapid wasting than no food at all. Dogs fed on 
beef - tea die sooner than when they are not fed at all. All 
meat essences and infusions, therefore, can only be regarded as 
temporary foods, for they are inadequate alone to maintain life ; 
they should be combined with farinaceous materials to increase 
their nutritiveness, and must only be given alternately with milk 
and other foods. They are not only inefficient as foods for the 
sick, they are extravagant, being about the most costly articles of 
the dietary of an invalid, when we consider the low proportion of 
nutriment and the price of their purchase. The waste of meat in 
keeping up a daily supply of 1 to IJ pints (the usual amount) 
of beef-tea, mutton or chicken broth, is great. There are several 
excellent preparations of beef and mutton made by large firms, 
which the makers purport to yield to v^ater a much larger pro- 
portion of the nutritious elements of meat than is contained in 
home-made beef-tea or broth. They, at any rate, have the decided 
advantage of being quickly prepared for the sick-room, which is a 
matter of great importance. Their freedom from fat is another 
recommendation. 

There are many modes of making beef- tea, etc., but they differ 
little in point of nutrition, the main thing being the proportion of 
meat to water, and care in the application of heat. As regards 
proportion, beef-tea should have 1 pound of lean meat to 1 pint of 
vyater ; mutton broth, 1 pound to 1^ pints ; and a chicken or rabbit 
will make 2 pints. It is of great importance to change the flavour 
of these liquids with each fresh supply. Onion, celery, bay-leaf, 
parsley, mint, thyme, ketchup, tomato, peppercorn, allspice, or 
other condiment, may be used in turn. Vegetables should be 
removed before serving it, and heavy vegetables, like turnips, 



SOUP, BEEF-TEA, JELLY 139 

swedes, carrots, should never be used for invalids, as they contain 
an oil which is capable of upsetting the digestive organs. 

A good method of making beef-tea is as follows : Let a pound 
of beef be freed from fat, beat it with a roller, and cut it into 
small pieces or tear it into shreds. Put the beef into a vessel 
with a pint of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt ; allow it to 
stand for half an hour to extract the juices from the meat. Then 
put the whole into a double saucepan (or if that be not at hand, 
put it into a jar in a saucepan of water), cover it down, heat it 
gradually, and keep it simmering. The beef-tea must not boil, 
uor its temperature exceed 160° F., nor the saucepan boil dry. 
Occasionally separate the meat with two forks, as it has a 
tendency to become clotted together. If it is more convenient, 
the beef-tea can be made in a stone jar in the oven. The 
flavouring should be put in a few minutes before it is finished. 
When it is ready, pour the liquid off without straining it, and 
press out as much liquid as possible. The flocculent sediment 
contains a great portion of the nutriment, and must not be thrown 
away. The fat can be removed en masse when it is cold ; but if 
some of the tea is required quickly, most of the fat can be removed 
by a piece of clean white blotting-paper. 

Hassall's analysis shows that beef-tea made with cold water 
contains double the amount of nutriment in that made in the 
ordinary manner ; and Liebig also favoured this method of pre- 
paration, for which he gave the following directions : Let the 
meat be cut very small, mix it with cold water and salt, digest it 
and agitate it frequently for an hour; finally, boil it for ten 
minutes, the flavouring being added ; pour it off for use. Good 
beef-tea should not gelatinize, because the formation of a jelly 
shows that it has been boiled for a length of time, and the albumin 
has probably been all precipitated by the heat. Let the beef-tea 
be warmed up as required and served with a little dry toast. 
Patients who are not feverish may have a little of the meat 
finely minced or pounded like potted meat put in their beef-tea 
when given to them. 

Beef-tea can be quickly made thus : Take 4 ounces of beef, 
scrajje it to pieces, sprinkle a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt over 
it and a teacupful of cold water ; allow it to stand ten minutes ; 
then put it all into a saucepan over a fire, add a peppercorn, a 



140 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

clove, or a little ketchup, and stir it constantly until the meat 
changes colour. Do not let it l^oil, only simmer it. It should 
be ready in fifteen minutes. Pour it off, and squeeze all you can 
out of the meat. 

Beef essence is prepared thus : Cut a pound of beef into very 
small pieces, put it into a stew-jar, sprinkle some salt over it and 
two tablespoonfuls of water ; cover it, and put it into an oven or 
a saucepan of boiling water. It requires two or three hours to 
draw out the juice, and five hours is not too long when no water 
is added to the meat. Care must be taken that it is not dried up. 
A small quantity of the liquid so prepared is added to water and 
given as ordinary beef-tea. 

Eaw-meat juice is prepared by scraping 2 ounces of lean beef, 
sprinkling it with salt, and adding two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
let it stand ten minutes ; express the liquid, flavour with ketchup 
or tomato sauce, and serve in a coloured glass, as its appearance 
is not very agreeable to a sick person. 

Three methods of making beef-tea have been named above : 
(a) Infusing the meat in water kept below the coagulating-point 
of albumin ; (b) applying such a degree of heat that the albumin 
is coagulated — that is, by making a decoction ; (c) by simple 
maceration in cold water, no heat being applied. The advantage 
lies decidedly with the latter, as shown by Hassall and Liebig. 

Several other carneous liquids are administered to sick persons 
as food — e.g., mutton broth. This is best made by using the scrag 
end of the neck of mutton, and a few shanks may be added to 
give it additional gelatine. A pound of lean mutton is used to 
li pints of broth. Eemove all fat from the meat and cut it into 
small pieces ; put it into a saucepan with the water and some 
salt, a few peppercorns and a little allspice ; cover with a lid, and 
simmer slowly for two hours. The scum must be removed as it 
rises, which the salt helps it to do. If it is not removed, it 
dissolves in the liquid and spoils the broth. After two hours add 
^ pint more water, with any other flavouring, and simmer for 
another hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, and warm up as desired. 
When required in a hurry, a little of the liquid can be taken out 
after an hour, cleared of fat by white blotting-paper, and flavoured 
with ketchup or tomato sauce. Plain mutton broth, made as 
above without flavouring except salt and peppercorns, is often 



SOUP, BEEF-TEA, JELLY 141 

used, and after the removal of fat will agree with the most delicate 
stomach. It is, however, tasteless, insipid. Few people like it. 
There is usually no harm in adding an onion, carrot, or other 
pot-herbs, during the last hour of cooking, providing they are 
strained away for the invalid. Rice, pearl-barley, vermicelli, 
may be used instead of vegetables, and these, if well cooked, 
need not be removed, as the cereals add materially to the 
nutritive qualities of the broth, as also do pea flour and lentils. 
These, however, are flatulent, and should not be given to a person 
acutely ill. 

Veal broth is made in the same way as the former. It is not 
very nourishing or stimulating, and, except when it contains 
much gelatine from the bones and ligaments and some flavouring, 
it is not very palatable. It can be made by boiling a knuckle of 
the shoulder or leg of veal, and the addition of the bones or a 
leg of a fowl or pheasant materially strengthens it and adds to its 
flavour. 

The great vahte of hones in making broth or soup should not be 
overlooked, whether the preparation be for an invalid or healthy 
person. The nutriment from bones consists of the albuminous 
portion of marrow and other cells, of gelatine and fat, amounting 
in all to about 35 per cent. A most nourishing soup can there- 
fore be made from them with the addition of very little meat. 
Bones, of course, require long cooking to extract their nutritious 
elements. They should be broken into small pieces, so that they 
may present as many surfaces as possible to the water, and the 
resulting soup is, when cold, a stiff gelatinous mass. When 
flavoured with vegetables or thickened with a little pea flour, 
wheat flour, or lentils, it is of a high nutritive quality. Care 
must be taken to strain the stock made from bones, so that all 
the little bits of bone are removed. 

Cow's heel and calf's foot are credited with being very nutritious 
and strengthening. Their nutriment consists of the albuminous 
substance from the marrow, some fat, and a good deal of gelatine. 
The heel should be cleansed, crushed, and baked in the oven in 
a vessel containing a pint of milk and a pint of water for three or 
four hours, adding a little salt, pepper, onion, or celery, to flavour it. 
Savoury pudding makes a change with other things for an 
invalid. Take three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, a piece of 



142 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

butter the size of an egg, the yolk of an egg, and a teacupful of 
beef-tea ; beat all together until thoroughly mixed. The white 
of the egg is now beaten to a froth and stirred lightly into the 
mixture. The whole is poured into a buttered dish and baked in 
an oven for six minutes. It is a nutritious and savoury dish, and 
makes a complete change from ordinary farinaceous puddings. 

Stock for soup is made from all kinds of meat. Beef makes 
the best stock, because it contains extractives which give it a 
flavour. Mutton is apt to give it a tallowy smell far from agree- 
able, except when the meat has been previously roasted. Game 
and their remains give it a delicious flavour. So do old fowls 
and pigeons. Bones are valuable by enriching the soup in albumin 
and gelatine. The flesh and bony materials, in the proportion of 
a pound to a pint, are put in cold ivater, placed over a gentle fire, 
and heated gradually. The albuminous substances are dissolved 
by cold or tepid water and salt, but the use of boiling water at 
the beginning coagulates the albumin of the meat, and none can 
then be extracted ; consequently the broth or stock is thin and 
watery. Fat is dissolved from the meat and rises to the surface ; 
and a scum consisting of a little albumin and some impurities 
is formed, which must frequently be removed ; if it is not 
removed it dissolves in the liquid and makes it turbid. The bones 
are added last of all, and the whole simmered for five or six 
hours. When making the stock into soup, the required quantity 
is strained, and then boiled with the vegetables or other 
flavouring. 

GELATINE: JELLY. 

The public have great faith in jelly of every kind and name ; 
but, like beef-tea, it is of low nutritive value. Animals fed on 
jelly would die nearly as soon as if they were not fed at all. It 
cannot, therefore, be as nourishing as the public believe it to be. 
Some scientists say it is less easily assimilated than meat or fish. 
Jelly owes its gelatinizing power to gelatine, a substance which 
is derived from many tissues, such as skin, tendons, ligaments, 
and bone, by the aid of boiling water. The gelatine of shops is 
derived from such sources, and when dried in the air it forms 
translucent, nearly colourless sheets or shreds. One part dis- 
solved in 50 parts of hot water solidifies to a jelly on cooling, 



SOUP, BEEF-TEA, JELLY 143 

and is largely used for stiffening dietetic preparations. During 
digestion gelatine is converted into gelatine-peptone and absorbed. 
Jelly or gelatine is not despised by medical practitioners, for 
doubtless by its oxidation it spares the body from wasting to a 
slight degree. When acidulated or flavoured with wine or mixed 
with milk, jellies are suitable food for convalescents who need 
variety. Milk jelly is valuable as food to the extent of the milk 
it contains, and other jellies are nutritive in proportion as they 
contain alimentary substances in addition to gelatine. 

Isinglass is a very pure form of gelatine, obtained from the 
swim-bladder of the sturgeon. It can be used in many ways 
for invalids. Its nutritive properties are the same as ordinary 
gelatine. 

Pectin is a vegetable jelly found in many fruits and vegetables. 
It is capable of gelatinizing when boiled and cooled, as in black 
currant, raspberry, and apple jelly. 

The following modes of preparation can be recommended : 

Milk Jelly. — Take f pint of milk ; gelatine or isinglass, 1 ounce; 
gum arable, 1 ounce ; sugar-candy, 1 ounce ; port wine, -]- pint ; 
and a little powder of cinnamon, nutmeg, or other flavouring. 
Mix all the ingredients together in a double saucepan or in a jar 
which can be placed in a saucepan of cold water ; place over or 
near a fire, and stir the contents frequently until all are dissolved 
and mixed. Turn it into a mould to cool. It is stimulating and 
nourishing. 

A simple milk jelly : Take a square of jelly sold at the shops, 
lemon, currant, or raspberry ; dissolve it in a little boiling water, 
and add to it f pint of warm milk ; stir it well to mix it ; pour 
into a mould to get cold and stiff. 

Wine Jelly. — Take a bottle of port, claret, or other wine ; ^ pint 
of water ; 2 ounces of gelatine ; four or five tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice ; I pound of white sugar ; two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of fruit jelly ; and the rind of one lemon or a piece of cinna- 
mon for flavouring. Put the materials into a double saucepan 
over a fire, bring slowly to boiling-point, then withdraw the pan 
from the fire, and allow it to simmer for five minutes. Strain the 
mixture into a mould which has been just rinsed out with cold 
water. This is a stimulating and refreshing jelly, and somewhat 
nutritive. 



144 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Meat Jelly.— Take f pound lean meat, eight shanks or knuckles 
of mutton, a piece of toasted bread, an onion or sweet-herbs or 
pepper, and salt to flavour. Let the knuckles be well cleaned, 
put them and the meat and vegetables into 2 quarts of water, 
and let them simmer for five or six hours ; strain off the liquor, 
remove the fat when nearly cold, and pour into moulds to set. 
It may be eaten as a jelly or warmed to drink as soup. 

Bread Jelly falls under the same category. It may be useful, and 
is very nutritious. Take two small milk rolls, cut them into slices, 
and toast them thoroughly dry ; put the pieces into a basin with 
2 ounces of sugar and a little nutmeg, cinnamon, or other flavour- 
ing ; pour over them a pint of boiling water, cover, and set before 
a fire for half an hour ; beat up, and pass through a sieve or piece 
of muslin into a mould ; set aside to cool ; serve with cream. 

Blancmange is nutritive, and consists of cornflour and milk. 

Cream sponges are soft, easily digested, and when not too rich 
are similar to jelly, but far more nutritious. 

References : Halliburton's 'Chemical Physiology,' [>97. Mays, Philad. Med. 
NevK, February 27, 1886. Jessop, the Lancet, 1888, i., 9.59. Ibid., 1884, ii., 291. 
IhuL, 1888, 136. Brit. Med. Jour., 1894, ii., 1414. 



CHAPTEE XII 
MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE 

MILK. 

Milk is one of the most important articles of food. Indeed, it 
is, or ought to be, the main food of every child under a year of 
age. It is a standard diet ; that is, it is a representative of every 
class — the nitrogenous, by its casein and other albumins ; carbo- 
hydrate, by its sugar ; hydrocarbons, by its cream, besides salts 
and water. Milk is a secretion of the mammary glands of all 
animals belonging to the class of mammalia, and its natural 
object is to feed the young of its own species. There is nothing 
else in Nature exactly like it ; but certain birds have a secretion 
comparable to it, and so is the juice of some plants. All milk is 
not alike. Thus the milk of woman does not contain so much 
of the important elements as cow's, and still less than goat's. 
Mare's and ass's milk resemble woman's more closely than cow's. 



MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE 145 

A table showing their composition is given in the chapter on 
Infant Feeding (q.v-)- The following remarks will be principally 
confined to cow's milk, which is the liquid usually understood 
when the term ' milk ' is used unqualified by the name of the 
animal from which it is derived. 

The Composition of Milk. — The average of many analyses shows 
it to contain — -proteids, 4 per cent. ; fat, 4 ; sugar, 4-5 ; salts, 0'6 > 
and water, 87. H. Droop Richmond ^ gives the following average 
of 30,000 samples of milk analysed in 1900 : Water, 87-17 per 
cent.; fat, 4-07; sugar, 4-45; casein with salts, 3"33; albumin, 
0*40; salts in solution, 0-73. Total solids not fat: Morning, 
8-97; evening, 8-93. Total solids, including fat: Morning, 12-4; 
evening, 12-7. These substances are partly dissolved and partly 
in suspension in the water. The dissolved substances are sugar 
of milk, casein, peptones, lacto-chrome, salts, and minute pro- 
portions of other substances ; and the suspended matt.-^rs are 
milk fat and a portion of the casein in such fine granules as to be 
only arrested by filtering the liquid through earthenware. The 
appearance of milk through a microscope is that of a nearly 
colourless fluid containing innumerable globules. The number 
of globules depend upon the richness of milk in fat, varying from 
two to three and a half millions in a cubic millimetre. 

Tlie reaction of milk is peculiar. When tested immediately 
after being drawn from the cow it turns litmus red and turmeric 
brown, which is probably due to the acid phosphate of the 
alkalies which exist in milk. There is afterwards a constaut 
development of carbonic acid, which gives a feeble acid reaction ; 
but the milk soon becomes decidedly acid, with a tendency to an 
increase of this reaction from the development of lactic acid.- 

Tlie proteids of milk are casein-albumin, with smaller propor- 
tions of lact-albumin, nuclein or nucleo-proteid, and a peptone- 
like body. Casein, in its pure condition, is a perfectly white 
substance, somewhat transparent and brittle. It is insoluble 
in pure water, but soluble in dilute acids and alkalies. It is 
very similar to alkali-albumin, and is precipitated by rennet, by 
sulphate of magnesia, tannin, acids, gelatine, gum and sugar ni 
excess, and many other things. Cow's milk contains 4 to 5 per 
cent. — never more. The other nitrogenous bodies in milk are 
lact-albumin, which is very much like serum-albumin in the 

10 



146 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

blood ; a small proportion ot lacto-protein and nucleiu. Nuclein 
contains *J-6 per cent, of phosphorus, and is that substance in 
milk, eggs, liver, and other cellular bodies, which contains phos- 
phorus in an organized condition. The albuminous substances 
of milk, otJier than casein, are coagulated by heat ; and when 
milk is boiled they rise to the surface, and form a thin skin over 
it, which can easily be removed. After one layer is removed 
another will form if heat be still applied to the milk, and again 
for several times in succession, until all the coagulable albuminate 
is removed. People should not remove this scum, as they often 
consider it, for by so doing they remove an important part of the 
proteid constituents. Casein is not coagulable l)y heat ; but it is 
readily precipitated by the rennin ferment of the stomach, and 
many other substances. Rennin, secreted by the glands of the 
stomach, is the ferment most used for this purpose. The in- 
fusion of a piece of calf's stomach (called rennet), as big as half a 
crown, will precipitate the albumin from enough milk to make 
60 pounds of cheese, although the quantity of ferment cannot 
exceed a few grains. By the precipitation of casein, the milk is 
divided into curds and whey. Whey is the liquid which remains 
after the separation of the curds. It is a thin, almost transparent 
liquid, of a pleasant, sweetish taste. It contains a little proteid 
and fat, the milk-sugar, traces of urea, creatin, etc. Droop 
Kichmond^ gives the following analysis: Total solids— sugar, 
445 per cent. ; proteids, 1-24 ; ash, 052 ; CaO, 0-051 ; PoO^, 
0'103. It is a nutritive drink, useful in the sick-room, but should 
not 1)6 considered in any sense equivalent to milk. It may cause 
flatulence and acidity in persons subject to these troubles. It is 
very useful in infant feeding as a diluent of cow's milk. 

The fat of milk rises readily to the surface as cream when milk 
is allowed to stand undisturbed for a few hours. Cream is a 
yellowish-white, opaque liquid removed from milk by separation 
or skimming. Its colour is due to lacto-chrome. It contains the 
same constituents as milk, but the fat amounts to 47 or 48 per 
cent. The fat consists of small globules, each distinct and 
separate, surrounded by a hypothetical albuminous membrane- 
When cream is churned, these coverings are broken up, and 
the fat runs together to form a mass of butter. The mem- 
brane or pellicle surrounding these globules of fat is said by some 



MILK, BUTTBE, CHEESE 147 

authorities to be albuminous or mucoid ; by others, to be a layer 
of casein so thin as to be inestimable by weight ; others, how- 
ever, doubt the existence of any covering, but believe the oil is 
simply in a form of emulsion.^ The fat consists of the tri- 
glycerides of stearic, palmitic, and oleic acids, with very small 
proportions of the glycerides of capric, caproic, caprylic, rutic, 
myristic, butyric, and valerianic acids, which give it the charac- 
teristic flavour. The milk of all herbivorous animals contains 
more fat than can be extracted from the fodder they eat. 

The sugar of milk consists of lactose, which is peculiar to the 
milk of herbivorous animals, dogs, and women. Cow's milk 
contains an average of 4-5 per cent. Lactose is dissolved in the 
whey, and can be obtained from it. It is not sweet, like cane, 
beet, or maple sugar, but possesses similar nutritive properties. 
It is a fine, white powder, soluble in an equal quantity of boiling 
or seven times its bulk of cold water. It can be obtained from 
any chemist, and is recommended to be used instead of ordinary 
sugar for sweetening infants' food. It is powerfully diuretic, 
a property which is taken advantage of in the treatment of albu- 
minuria and heart dropsy, for which purpose it can be taken in 
the form of whey or skimmed milk ; or the powder (3| ounces may 
be taken daily, dissolved in 2 quarts of water), taken at frequent 
intervals. It does not irritate or otherwise affect the kidneys. 

The salts in milk are chiefly chloride and phosphate of soda, 
potash, lime, and magnesia. There is only a trace of iron, which 
is the greatest defect of milk when we consider it as a typical food. 

The total solids of milk vary within considerable limits, for 
whatever influences the health and nutrition of the cow, as the 
character of its food, the length of time from eating, and other 
circumstances, modifies the quality of the milk. Certain cows 
also secrete more, others less, than the normal proportion of 
important constituents. The numerous analyses of Bell, Wank- 
lyn, Blyth, Eichmond, and others, show that the true lowest 
percentage of solids is 9 and the highest 12-7. PubHc authorities 
usually assert that the solids should be not less than 12 per cent., 
or 3*5 fat and 8-5 not fat. 

Milk is adulterated by the addition of water or abstraction of 
cream ; sometimes by the addition of glycerine to increase its specific 
gravity, or ordinary sugar to sweeten a watered milk, or by con- 

10—2 



148 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



densed milk and water ; and by various preservative agents like 
boracic or salicylic acid or salt. New milk should not require 
the addition of a preservative agent, if it is carefully handled 
and rapidly distributed. Table cream may have 18 grains of 
boracic acid in a pound. 

Condensed milk consists of the ordinary fluid which is concen- 
trated by the evaporation of water, and mixed with ordinary cane- 
sugar. It is usually concentrated to one-third its bulk ; therefore 
a pound of condensed milk can be made equal to 3 pounds of 
ordinary cow's milk, but it will be sweeter by reason of the added 
sugar. An analysis of a well-known brand gave the following 
composition : Water, 15-3 per cent. ; fat, 8*85; albuminoids, 998; 
milk-sugar, 13-63 ; cane-sugar, 50-0 ; ash, 2-17 ; and solids which 
are not fat, 25-77 (0. Hehner). The statutory composition of con- 
densed milk shows that it should contain not less than 28 per 
cent, of milk solids, of which one-fourth must be milk fat. 
Preservatives are unnecessary both for the sweetened and un- 
sweetened brands, as they are sterilized and hermetically sealed. 
Various methods of preparation are known. In Campbell's ^ the 
milk is placed in a tank, which is heated by a hot-water jacket. 
Heated air is blown through the milk, by which means evapora- 
tion of water is induced until the liquid is of the consistence of 
condensed milk. Another manufacturer first removes the cream, 
then evaporates the milk to dryness, and reduces it to a fine 
powder. A quantity of cream in proportion equivalent to that 
removed is then thoroughly mixed with the powder, and it is 
again condensed at a temperature of 100° F. Both these methods 
are used in the preparation of unsweetened condensed milk. 

The following table shows the composition of well-known 
brands of condensed milk : 



1 

Water. Fat. 


MUk- Cane- 
sugar, sugar. 


Casein. ,^°^"^1« 
1 Albumin. 

1 


1 
Ash. Authority, i 


1. Unsweetened 63-47 

2. ,, 62-97 

3. „ 1 61-3 


10-22 
10-67 
11-7 


13-94 — 
14-55 — 
14-3 1 — 


9-81 0-49 
9-24 0-32 
9-1 1-5 


2-07 

1-5 

2-1 


Richmond ' 

Faber 

Goodfellow 


1. Sweetened 

2. 

3. 

(skimmed) 


25-48 
25-04 


11-52 
9-58 


12-89 
13-06 


38-57 
39-40 


9-43 
10-00 


1-93 
2-10 


Harrison 


25-97 


0-75 14-07 


44-72 


10-99 


2-39 


)> 



MTLK, BUTTEE, CHEESE 149 

Powdered milk is an article of great utility in the preparation 
of food for infants and invalids, and can be used for those adults 
who from idiosyncrasy cannot retain ordinary milk. One special 
brand is a fine powder of a pale yellow colour obtained from 
skimmed milk by precipitation of casein with acetic acid, and 
afterwards neutralizing it with sodium bicarbonate. The dry 
residuum is said to contain 13 per cent, of nitrogen. Another 
method of preparing milk powder and desiccated milk is as follows : 
The milk is placed in a tank heated by a water-jacket ; heated 
air is driven through the liquid until it is evaporated to the 
consistence of condensed milk ; it is then transferred to a rolling 
drum, and more hot air driven through it until it is a semi-solid 
mass ; the mass is then broken into lumps and pressed through 
a sieve to make it granular ; the granules are afterwards dried and 
ground to a powder.'' 

Clotted Cream. — Ordinary cream has the same constituents as 
milk, but the fat is as much as 35 to 48 per cent. An analysis of 
Devon cream by Blyth" showed it to contain — milk fat, 65 per cent. ; 
casein, 35 ; albumin, 0*5 ; peptones, 0-05 ; milk-sugar, 1"723 ; and 
water, 28"685. Eichmond^ gives the average composition as — milk 
fat, 58-2 per cent. ; solids not fat, 8 60 ; ash, 0-71. It is generally 
of the consistence of a soft paste, and Devonshire cream is a good 
example ; it is cream more or less condensed. The milk is kept 
in large pans at a gentle heat for many hours. By this means 
the cream rises rapidly, and with it a thin pellicle of albumin. 
Cream in any form is nutritive, and can be recommended for 
all delicate persons, especially for those of light weight or suffer- 
ing from neuralgia and other nervous diseases. Those who are 
unable to take cod-liver oil are benefited by the free use of 
cream, which they may take with fruit, or in tea, or in any other 
way. 

Koumiss. — The presence of sugar in milk enables it to undergo 
vinous fermentation. Koumiss is an alcoholic drink made by the 
fermentation of the milk of an animal. It is especially used by 
the nomad population of Tartary and the inhabitants of Eussia, 
who make it from the milk of mares, asses, camels, or cows. It 
is very easily digested and absorbed, and is a useful food for 
invalids. Very little art is required in its preparation. To 
10 parts of warm new milk, having some ordinary sugar added, 



150 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

is mixed 1 part of sour milk.'-' The mixture is allowed to stand 
two or three hours, l)eing stirred frequently. Sour milk contains 
the lactic ferment by which the sugar is converted into lactic 
acid, carbonic acid and alcohol also being produced in the process. 
Mare's milk contains more sugar than cow's, and therefore less 
ordinary sugar, if any, needs to be added. It is also made by 
fermenting cow's milk with yeast, as well as by the ordinary 
method. Various analyses show it to contain the same alimentary 
principles as milk, but that it is a very complex fluid. The 
composition given by Sharp ^"^ is as follows: Casein, 2-34 per. cent. ; 
proteid, 0*8 ; including serum-albumin, 0-32 ; acid albumin, 0*22 ; 
globulin, 0-1 ; proteose, 0"16 ; acidity, 0-576, due to lactic, acetic, 
succinic, and other acids; fat, 1-94:3; sugar, 2-50; alcohol by 
weight, 1-06 ; urea, 0-017 ; carbonic acid, 0-61 ; ash, 0-21. 

Butter-milk. — When butter is made, a thin fluid similar to 
whey is left behind. It contains all the constituents of milk, but 
a good deal of the sugar is turned to lactic acid, as in koumiss, 
and, of course, the proportion of fat is small, and the casein is 
not much below the normal. Blyth^^ found it to contain — water, 
90-G per cent. ; casein, 3-8 ; fat, 1*28 ; milk-sugar, 3-38 ; ash, 0-9. 
It is an agreeable drink, feebly acid, very suitable as a beverage 
in cases of feverishness, and at all times for persons who are 
unable to drink milk in its ordinary condition. It is useful in 
feeding infants when mixed with milk, baked flour, oatmeal, or 
malted food and sugar, being of especial value in the summer- 
time, when the stools are sour and foul, in gastroenteritis or 
other forms of intestinal disorder, for which the high acidity is 
beneficial. The casein forms very fine flocculi, which are very 
acceptable to the stomach. 

The natural milk of one animal is not quite suitable for feeding 
the young of another species. It is true that milk is a typical 
food, containing all classes of alimentary substances ; but the 
milk of one animal differs from another in composition, as seen 
by analyses given in the chapter on Infant Feeding. Nor is milk 
a perfect food. Although it contains the elements of a standard 
diet, an adult would have to drink 5 pints to obtain the energy 
required for a day, and double that amount would be required to 
supply sufficient carbohydrate for his daily use. This quantity 
would, however contain too much proteid or nitrogenous material, 



MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE 151 

as well as too much fat and water, and would thereby entail 
excessive work upon his digestive and excretory organs to deal 
with the surplus substances. Another great fault is the deficiency 
in iron, which is so necessary for the complete formation of our 
blood and the process of oxygenation. A prolonged course of 
milk diet, no other food being taken, is sometimes very useful in 
albuminuria, heart dropsy, and kidney disease. In these cases, 
however, skimmed milk only is taken ; and a portion of the casein 
can be removed, if it is desired, by the use of rennet. In this way 
the proportion of fat and casein is greatly diminished, and the 
other principles, being very easily assimilated, give little trouble 
to the kidneys. On the other hand, the lactose acts as a diuretic, 
and the water washes out the kidney tubules and promotes a 
healthy action. 

Milk may be regarded as a solution of the elements of our food, 
excepting the fat, which is in the form of an emulsion. Its diges- 
tion begins with the precipitation of the casein in curds by rennin 
— a ferment secreted by glands in the mucosa of the stomach and 
contained in the gastric juice. The curds are then peptonized by 
pepsin — another ferment in gastric juice— and the resulting 
peptones, as well as the salts and water, are absorbed into the 
blood. The fat of milk is emulsified and saponified by the bile 
and pancreatic juices in the small intestines, and absorbed from 
that portion of the alimentary tract. 

The curd of human milk, and that of mares and asses, is loose 
and flocculent, and easy of digestion and assimilation. But the 
curd of cow's milk is larger, heavier, and forms a much firmer 
mass, which is harder of digestion than the former. Many 
persons of weak digestion or peculiar idiosyncrasy cannot take 
cow's milk, or, if they do, it causes them pain, sickness, acidity, 
heartburn, flatulence, fulness, and other signs of indigestion. 
Persons who are over-heated by cycling, running, or other active 
exertion, should not drink pure milk, for people have died from 
acute gastritis in consequence of having taken a large draught, 
1 or 2 pints, of milk while in that condition. Such a result is 
due to the curdling of the casein into firm, hard, or tough, cheese- 
like masses. It is well, therefore, to remember that the addition 
of barley-water, lime-water, or even soda-water, in equal parts, 
would prevent the casein from coagulating in such large masses, 



152 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the curd being looser and easier of digestion, and the thirst better 
quenched, by the dilution of the milk. 

Boiling milk renders it more digestible. The curds formed in 
it are not so large and tough ; they are softer and more readily 
penetrated and digested by the gastric juice. Opinions differ on 
this matter. Milk boils at 213"5" F., which is slightly higher 
than the temperature of boiling water. The lact-albumin is 
coagulated during boiling, and forms a film on the surface, which 
may be removed. The casein is slightly altered, some milk-sugar 
is converted to caramel, and a small amount of lactic acid pro- 
duced. ^2 'But prolonged boiling, which is quite unnecessary for steri- 
lization, causes the milk to be not so digestible as when raw. The 
casein is then less easily coagulated by rennet, and is more slowly 
digested by the gastric and pancreatic fluids. ^•'^ It also causes 
a loss of lecithin, which is destroyed and diminished in proportion 
to the length of time it is heated ;^^ and it is said to destroy the 
imperfectly understood vital principle which is in it, wherefore 
such milk is more likely to induce scurvy and rickets in infants 
than rmv milk. But milk is an animal fluid in which bacteria 
breed with astonishing rapidity, and it ought never to be taken 
without previous sterilization. If it is just brought to a boil, or 
is boiled for one minute, the destruction of the germs of most 
infectious diseases is certain. For ordinary purposes, sterilization 
may be effected by raising it to a temperature of 155° F. for six 
minutes. 

Milk is easily assimilated by most people. It affords a quick 
supply of nutriment to the system, which does not excite or 
stimulate the body like other animal substances. Its freedom 
from purin bases aud other noxious principles renders it an 
exceedingly suitable diet, not only for infants, but for the aged, 
the delicate, and invalid, which can be used almost ad libitum in 
nearly every case of illness. Its nutritive value is enhanced by 
the addition to it of farinaceous materials like fine oatmeal, baked 
flour, arrowroot, and many prepared or patent foods. 

Although Nature has provided us with this valuable compound 
fluid for our nutriment, wholesome and well designed for an 
alimentary material, yet, when its constituents are separated by 
art, they are not always so welcome to the stomach as Nature's 
mixture. Thus butter, from its oily nature, is apt to disagree 



MILK, BUTTEE, CHEESE 153 

with some weak or irritable stomachs ; and hot buttered toast, 
in which the butter is rendered empyreumatic by heat, may 
produce heartburn and other distressing symptoms. Cheese is 
nothing more nor less than the coagulum of milk, salted and partly 
dried. But it is one of the least digestible of our foods, and a bread 
and cheese meal is only suitable for a person who has a strong 
stomach, and is accustomed to a great amount of exercise. Toasted 
cheese is still more indigestible, from its acquiring a tenacity of 
texture hostile to the digestive functions of the stomach. 

Milk, being an animal secretion, is an exceedingly favourable 
medium for the growth and development of the minute germs, 
bacteria and other fungi, which constantly float in the air, for 
which reason it is very liable to get contaminated by the germs 
of any disease which is prevalent. Boiling it will, however, 
destroy all disease germs except the Bacillus anthracis, and this 
nutritious article can be rendered safe and innocuous by this 
simple proceeding. It is never advisable to drink raw milk or 
use it for food : it should always be cooked, and no more should 
be boiled at one time than is likely to be soon used, for fear of 
recontamination. 

Milk soon becomes sour, owing to the growth in it of B. acidi 
paralactici, B. acidi licvolactici — an aerogenic bacterium, and 
a micrococcus (Kozai), which live upon the sugar and pro- 
duce alcohol, carbonic acid, and lactic acid, as in koumiss. As 
soon as sufficient acid is produced the milk separates into curds 
and whey. But the precipitation of casein in this manner is not 
the same as clotting by rennet ; it is a downward process tending 
to disintegration and putrefaction. If it is left exposed to the 
air, another set of bacteria will grow in the fluid and produce 
butyric acid ; and still others, which will set up putrefactive 
changes in the curd, while moulds and fungi of a different 
character will grow upon it. 

Milk is often associated with the spread of disease in isolated 
cases or epidemics. From the readiness with which it absorbs 
vapours and gases, and harbours all sorts of microbes, it is 
evident that milk ought to be kept in a perfectly cool place, 
free from chance exposure to disease infection, from pollution 
by sewer gas, and all other sources of pollution. It is such 
a favourable medium for the growth of bacteria that chance 



154 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

infection by the microbes of disease soon renders the milk a 
powerful source of contagion. Owing to this, many epidemics 
have been associated with the milk-supply. Thrush in infants 
is due to the fungus O'idiuvi albicans which grows in milk, and 
gastro-intestinal catarrh may be due to aspergilhis, penicillium, 
and other fungi, growing in it. Tuberculosis, a disease of men 
and cattle, is transmissible from the cow to human beings by 
milk. This has been denied, and, seeing the important part 
which milk plays in our food from infancy to old age, it would 
be an excellent thing if the negative could be proved. But the 
bacilli of tuberculosis in cattle and human beings are practically 
the same. The bacilli of human tuberculosis will cause that 
disease in calves and other animals, and it is highly probable 
that milk is a prolific source of tubercular disease in mankind, 
and especially of the high rate of mortality from tubercular 
diseases in young children. Scarlet fever epidemics have been 
sometimes traced to the milk-supply. In some cases the origin 
of the epidemic was due to the cows having been milked by 
a person suffering from a mild attack of the disease, or to the 
milker nursing someone who was ill with it, or to the milk 
having been stored in an infected house. Cows are also liable to 
a disease very closely resembling scarlet fever, and their milk has 
been the cause of epidemics of the disease among the consumers. 
Diphtheria has likewise been epidemic from a similar cause. The 
connection of enteric fever with the milk-supply is also very close, 
and its origin has been traced to the washing of milk-cans with 
water polluted by the dejecta of fever patients, or the intentional 
dilution of the milk with such water. Some outbreaks of enteric 
have been associated with the absorption of sewer gas hy storing 
the milk in a dairy having a faulty drain. 

Invalid Preparations of Milk. — Milk is at all times an important 
article in the sick-room, and there are few patients who are 
unable to take it in some form — milk, milk and raw egg, junket, 
custard, milk jelly, milk puddings, arrowroot or cornflour and 
milk, blancmange, oatmeal gruel, other farinaceous foods and 
casein preparations containing dried milk, besides whey and 
butter-milk, are only a few of the ways of administering it. It 
is not out of place to again remind the reader that lime-water, 
barley-water, and similar articles, are means of checking the 



MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE 155 

formation of large and hard curds in the stomach, and will 
prevent pain and vomiting in many persons who cannot take milk 
alone, and that the addition of farinaceous foods, arrowroot, 
cornflour, or fine oatmeal, have a similar effect. Some of the 
patent foods have a direct influence over the casein ; when mixed 
with warm milk or water the natural digestive principle in the 
food becomes active, and the casein of the milk is so modified 
that firm, indigestible curds cannot form in the stomach. In the 
preparation of junket likewise the casein is coagulated before it 
is consumed, and can be beaten up into very fine particles, which 
cannot injure the stomach. 

Junket consists of the casein of milk which has been coagulated 
by the addition of a curdling agent. Boiling the milk with a 
little vinegar or acetic acid will precipitate it, but such a coagu- 
lum is not the same as that prepared by Nature's method. A 
junket can be prepared by putting a piece of rennet or calf's 
stomach into a dish of warm milk ; after a few minutes it will 
begin to coagulate into a homogeneous, jelly-like curd, which 
gradually separates from the whey ; the curd is whipped up with 
the whey, and then allowed to rest ; in an hour or two the whole 
forms a jelly which is soft and flocculent, easy of digestion, 
adapted to the stomach of invalids and those who, by idiosyn- 
crasy, are unable to take milk in any other way. Various 
essences prepared from rennet are kept in stock by chemists, and 
are handy for use. The following recipes indicate their use : 

(a) Take 1 pint of milk, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, half a 
wineglassful of brandy, and a dessertspoonful of sugar. Warm 
the milk, sugar, and brandy to blood heat (100° F., not more), 
pour it into a dish, and add a tablespoonful of prepared rennet, 
or a teaspoonful of essence of rennet ; stir together. When cold it 
will be a jelly ; sprinkle upon it a little nutmeg or cinnamon. 

(b) Cocoa-junket. — Mix an even tablespoonful of cocoa and 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar with two tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
to a smooth paste ; stir in thoroughly ^ pint of cool, fresh milk ; put 
it into a saucepan and warm it to blood heat ; add a teaspoonful 
of pepsencia, and stir it just enough to mix it. Pour it into a 
vessel to set ; it is ready when cool, and may be eaten alone, or 
with ice, bread-and-butter, cake, or a cracker. 

Peptonized Milk and Milk Foods. — The artificial digestion of 



156 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

food is a matter of great importance in many cases of illness, 
especially in acute gastric catarrh, pyloric and intestinal obstruc- 
tion, crises of cardiac and renal disease, uremic vomiting, per- 
nicious anaemia, enteric, scarlet, diphtheria, and other fevers or 
diseases ; and also for nutrient enemata in the same cases. In 
gastric catarrh, such as follows alcoholic excess, when the 
stomach rejects beef-tea or diluted milk in the smallest quantity, 
peptonized milk or milk gruel will often stay down, and assist 
in allaying the vomiting and feeling of distension. In gastric 
ulcer, when abstinence from food is not altogether indicated, 
peptonized milk or fine oatmeal gruel is a great advantage, 
giving the stomach that absolute rest which it needs, and pre- 
venting severe abdominal pain and vomiting ; its use may be 
continued for weeks, during which the strength will recover and 
the weight increase. In heart disease, such as valvular incom- 
petence or dilatation with overfull veins, in congestion of the 
liver or kidneys with dropsy, the administration of peptonized 
food in small quantities frequently repeated, even when no solid 
food will keep down, often gives the most gratifying results. In 
pernicious anaemia of comparatively recent origin, when the 
stomach is very irritable, peptonized milk gruel is tolerated, and 
may be used to the amelioration, and sometimes complete 
restoration, of the patient. 

Peptonized foods are made with the ferments obtained from 
the stomach and pancreas extra corpus ; by these preparations 
we can change the casein of milk into peptone ready for absorp- 
tion without materially altering the flavour and appearance of 
the milk — a matter of prime importance in feeding the sick. In 
the same manner peptonized gruel or beef-tea can be prepared. 
Several firms make preparations of these ferments ; they are 
readily available, easy of application, and are often used in cases 
where peptonized foods seem the only alimentary materials at 
command capable of absorption. 

Boiled Peptonized Milk. — Put a peptonizing powder into a clean 
enamelled saucepan with a small teacupful of cold water ; stir it 
well ; then add to it 1 pint of cold fresh milk. Heat it to boiling- 
point, constantly stirring the while. The heat should be so 
applied that the whole comes to a boil in ten minutes ; it is then 
ready. Milk so prepared will not become bitter. Allow it to 



MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE 157 

cool ; pour it into a clean bottle and cork it tightly, and keep it 
in a cool place. When it is needed for use, pour out only the 
portion required, and cork it again. 

Cold or just warm milk may be peptonized thus : Put two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water into a tumbler, dissolve in it a peptonizing 
powder, then add a teacupful of cold or warm milk ; stir the 
mixture thoroughly, and it is ready ; it should be drunk imme- 
diately, sipping slowly. 

Peptonized Milk Gruel. — Put into a soup-plate h pint of thick, 
well-cooked hot gruel, and | pint of fresh cold milk ; add the 
peptonizing powder or liquid ; stir it well, and it is ready for use. 
It is to be drunk immediately, sipping slowly. The gruel may be 
made from any farinaceous material — fine oatmeal, barley-meal, 
baked wheaten flour, cornflour, arrowroot, etc. In each instance 
the material must be thoroughly cooked in water until the starch 
granules have been swollen, broken up, and incorporated with the 
water into a paste ; arrowroot requires but a few minutes, oat- 
meal several hours, for this purpose. Peptonized milk gruel has 
a more agreeable taste than peptonized milk alone, and afl'ords 
more nutriment to the patient. 

Peptonized Milk Jelly. — Prepare 1 pint of peptonized boiled 
milk, and dissolve in it a | pound of white castor-sugar. Prepare 
likewise f ounce of pure gelatine by dissolving it in a teacupful 
of boiling water ; add to it the juice of a lemon and of an orange, 
and three or four tablespoonfuls of brandy or rum ; strain this 
mixture. When the peptonized boiled milk is sufficiently cool or 
only just warm, mix the two solutions together ; pour into a mould, 
and set aside to get cold and firm. Any other flavouring can be 
used to vary it ; the only precautions necessary are to boil the 
milk after peptonizing it in order to destroy the ferment, other- 
wise it will digest the gelatine and the jelly will not set ; the 
other is to mix the solutions when the milk is only just 
warm. 

Peptonized milk punch is superior to that prepared with ordinary 
milk, because the spirit will not curdle peptonized milk, nor will 
lemon juice or acid phosphate, which can be freely used. It is 
prepared in the ordinary way, only the milk is peptonized and 
boiled previously ; it is very agreeable, and its great value is 
apparent when both nutrition and stimulation are required ; it 



158 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

is superior to koumiss or milk fermented with yeast, for in those 
articles the casein is not digested at all. 

Peptonized Beef-tea. — It is advisable to include peptonized beef- 
tea here to complete a series. Take ^ pound of raw lean beef 
free from fat, or the same weight of beef and chicken in equal 
proportions, or of chicken alone ; let it be minced very finely ; 
add to it }f pint of cold water, put it into an enamelled or other 
clean saucepan, cook it over a gentle fire, stirring constantly until 
it has boiled a few minutes. Pour oS the liquor, and preserve it; 
beat the meat into a paste, and put it into a bottle with ^ pint of 
cold water and the liquor poured from the meat. Add to it a 
peptonizing powder, and shake it up well ; set it aside in a warm 
place of about 110° or 115° F. for three hours, shaking it occa- 
sionally ; then boil it quickly to destroy the ferment. It can 
now be clarified by the addition of the white of an egg and 
strained, and a little seasoning added according to taste. It is 
not necessary, however, to strain the beef-tea, but it is more 
agreeable to the eye ; on the contrary, the portions of meat 
which remain undissolved will add to its nutritiveness, and be 
so acted upon by the ferment that it will be very soft and diffused 
through the liquid in fine particles, almost impalpable, and fit for 
rapid digestion and absorption in the stomach. Farinaceous 
materials may be used in the preparation of peptonized beef-tea 
or chicken broth by simply boiling a sufficient quantity of fiour 
or arrowroot or fine oatmeal in half the second quantity of water 
prescribed for this preparation, and mixing the two fluids together 
before adding the peptonizing powder, so that the meat and gruel 
will be peptonized at the same time ; it has a more agreeable 
flavour than peptofcized meat broth alone. Fluids are sold pre- 
pared by the peptonization of lean beef and wheaten flour 
together, and afterwards concentrated and preserved in sherry ; 
they are an excellent food for invalids and in cases of acute illness 
or during convalescence. 

Peptonized Milk and Farinaceous Food for Infants. — In the 
artificial feeding of infants we often meet with ditiaculty owing 
to indigestion, in which hard, indigestible curds of milk are 
formed in the stomach and soon vomited, or passed into the 
intestine, where they cause, pain, diarrhoea, or intestinal catarrh. 
These cases are most often met with in warm weather. Very 



MILK, BUTTEE, CHEESE 159 

often they improve vastly by feeding them with peptonized milk 
or milk gruel ; in many cases tlie results are surprising. It may 
even be given to infants a few days old until proper digestion is 
established. It is not intended hereby to recommend the whole- 
sale use of peptonizing agents in the preparation of infants' food ; 
for it is believed that the digestive organs ought to do their own 
work, and that substituted digestion should only be a temporary 
measure in any case. There are, however, many infants of a few 
weeks or months old who are unable to digest milk for quite a long 
period ; in such cases it is essential that the gastric organs should 
be assisted in their functions, or actually allowed to rest from 
work, excepting absorption and excretion. Peptonizing powders 
and peptogenic milk powders are sold for this purpose. It is 
better to prepare each supply of milk as it is required for use ; 
and the powder should be added to the water with which the 
milk is to be diluted, thus : Dissolve the powder in a gill of water, 
and mix it with a gill of fresh milk ; keep it warm for half an 
hour before feeding. The length of time the ferment is allowed 
to act depends, however, on the necessity of the case. By this 
method we get rid of the curd, which is converted into absorb- 
able and nutritious food, before feeding. When children are at an 
age to require farinaceous food, peptonized milk gruel made of fine 
oatmeal, wheaten flour, or arrowroot, is suitable for those whose 
stomachs are unable to retain or digest ordinary food.^^ 

BUTTER. 

Butter consists of the fat of milk, derived from cream by 
violent agitation in a churn or other butter-making machine 
until the fat accumulates in a mass, with some casein and whey. 
Butter-milk is the thin fluid which is left behind when the fat has 
been extracted. Its composition has been given. Butter consists 
of about 85 per cent, of fat, the rest being casein, sugar, salt, and 
water. Some salt is added in the manufacture to give flavour 
and assist in preserving it. Butter is beaten and pressed into 
shape for sale, during which process some of the butter-milk 
escapes. It is a solid substance at ordinary temperatures, with 
an agreeable taste, characteristic odour, and a pale yellow 
colour. The fat consists of a mixture of olein, palmitin, and 



160 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

stearin, which are insoluble in water, and in such proportions as 
to remain solid at ordinary temperatures. It also contains several 
volatile fatty acids, which give the characteristic flavour and 
odour. The fatty acids from 100 grammes of butter obtained by 
Hehner and MitchelU^ were : Stearic, 1*83 per cent. ; di-stearic, 
1-0; oleic, 32-5; palmitic, 38-5; myristic, 8*89; lauric, 257; 
capric, 0*32; caprylic, 0-49; caproic, 2'09 ; butyric, 545 — 
total, 94-5. 

Pure, dry milk fat has a melting-point of 35*8° C, — a little 
below blood heat — at which its specific gravity is 0"914. Olein, 
which comprises 40 per cent, of it, is fluid at ordinary tempera- 
tures, but solidifies at 5° C, is without colour, taste, or smell, 
but becomes yellow after exposure to the air from absorption of 
oxygen. Palmitin and stearin are both solid white fats, which 
together comprise about 45 to 50 per cent. Stearin is a hard, 
heavy fat, with a high melting-point (35° C), and is found in 
nearly all animal and a few vegetable oils. 

MARGARINE, OLEO-MARGARINE, BUTTERINE. 

A mixture of stearin and palmitin together crystallizes in 
needle-like tufts, and was once thought to be a definite separate 
fat called margarine. Butterine, or margarine of commerce, 
however, contains other substances — e.g., coco-nut oil. It is 
chiefly manufactured from beef fat, and when properly prepared 
its composition resembles that of butter ; but the free volatile 
fatty acids which give to butter its flavour and aroma are 
deficient, and it is artificially coloured. Wynter Blyth gives the 
following percentage composition : Palmitin, 18-31 per cent. ; 
stearin, 38-50 ; olein, 24-95 ; butyrin, caproin, and caprylin 
together only 0-25 ; casein, 0-74 ; salts, 5*23 : water, 12-01. 

It can be made from mutton fat also, but the product contains 
more stearin, and is harder and not so well flavoured. The 
manufacture of margarine is an important industry on the 
Continent of Europe and in the United States. It is often 
used to adulterate butter, and is occasionally sold as the genuine 
article. 



MILK, BUTTEE, CHEESE 161 



CHEESE. 

Cheese is made by the precipitation by rennet of the casein and 
cream of milk as curd. It may be made from the milk of any 
animal, but fresh cow's milk is chiefly used. The precipitate 
contains most of the casein and fat, besides some milk-sugar, 
common salt, alkaline and earthy phosphates. The whey or 
liquid is strained off, the curd is pressed into shape in moulds, 
and the cheeses are frequently turned over at definite periods, so 
that the whey drains away, and the moisture is evenly distributed 
and gradually evaporated, until the interior is of proper con- 
sistence and the exterior has the usual firm and dry rind. 

Cheese undergoes a transformation in the ripening, by which it 
acquires an agreeable taste and flavour ; this is a gradual process 
of fermentation due to the action of moulds and bacteria. Kussell 
and Babcock claim that the ripening of cheese is due mainly to 
normal en/ymes ; but Bockhoet and Otto de Vries show that it is 
difficult to get a cheese to ripen without the presence of bacteria. 
When cheese is made from milk under perfect aseptic conditions 
during collecting and cheese-making, only a few bacteria gain 
admission to it, and ripening does not occur. Such milk con- 
tains all the natural enzymes, and differs only from other milk 
in the absence of bacteria ; these observers, therefore, conclude 
that the ripening of cheese is due to bacteria. During this 
process a good cheese gets richer in fat, various aromatic bodies 
and extractives are developed, and there is a constant loss ^of 
water, and in some cases slight decomposition of fat. Fresh 
cheese has an acid reaction, but in a ripened cheese the reaction 
is alkaline, owing to the generation of a small proportion of 
ammonia, which, together with free fatty acids and lactic acid, 
varies as the ripening process goes on, the nitrogenous material 
undergoing changes by which the smell and taste are developed. 

The moulds in cheese are innocent enough, and so are the 
aromatic bodies ; but in advanced decay of cheese a poisonous 
ptomaine (tyrotoxicon) is produced, which is capable of causing 
very serious results, allied to those of atropine-poisoning. Cheese 
has been adulterated by a species of artificial cheese, in which the 
natural fat is replaced by a substance like margarine. Various 

1] 



162 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

mineral substances have likewise been added to give it weight 
and colour, and from early times vegetable colouring matters, 
which are probably not injurious, have been used in its manufac- 
ture ; but the red colour is sometimes due to the Micrococcus rubri- 
casci (Otto Gratz). 

Cheeses are hard or soft, according to the pressure and 
temperature used in making them. 

Soft cheeses are made by precipitating the curd at a low 
temperature, and using very little pressure in the after-treatment. 
Good examples are : English cream cheese, which contains 50 to 
70 per cent, of fat and only 2 or 3 per cent, of casein. Neufchatel, 
which has 41 per cent, of fat and 17'5 per cent, of casein. 
Rocquefort is a somewhat peculiar example of the soft cheese ;: 
it is prepared from the milk of ewes. When new it contains 
85'5 per cent, of casein and only 2 or 3 per cent, of fat ; but 
a great change takes place in it during ripening, for which 
purpose it is stored for seven or eight weeks in cold cellars 
or mountainous caves cooled by currents of air. A good ripe 
cheese contains as much as 32 per cent, of fat, and only about 
43 per cent, of casein i' — a forcible example of the production of 
fat from proteid substances. 

Hard cheeses are made of curds produced at a higher tem- 
perature, and subjected to much greater pressure in the after- 
treatment. There are many examples. Genuine Stilton is made 
from new milk, with additional cream. A good, ripe example 
contains 20 to 35 per cent, of casein, and 42 to 45 per cent, 
of fat, and is similar to Eocquefort. Inferior cheeses of this 
class have crept into the market, made of milk only, or of milk 
deficient in cream. Cheddar is made of entire milk, and contains 
27 per cent, or more of casein and 25 par cent, of fat. Gloucester, 
of new milk and skimmed milk together, or of skimmed milk 
only, contains 25 to 28 per cent, of fat and 28 to 31 per cent, of 
casein. American is made of entire milk, and contains — casein, 
20 to 36-5 per cent. ; fat, 20 to 33-5 per cent. Gorgonzola is an 
excellent cheese, containing about 26 per cent, of fat and a 
similar amount of casein. Parmesan is a very dry cheese, having 
only 6 to 15 per cent, of fat and 25 to 40 per cent, of casein. 

The composition of various cheeses analyzed by W. Chattaway, 
T. H. Pearmain, and C. G. Moor, is as follows : i*^ 



MILK, BUTTEE, CHEESE 



163 



Name. 


Water. 


Ash. 


Fat. 


Reichart, 

c.c. A. 


Nitrogen. 


Casein. 


Valenta 
Test. 


English cheddar 


33 


8 


4-1 


30 


5 


26-4 


4-20 


26-7 


310 


Canadian ,, 


33 


3 


3-6 


30 


6 


24 





4 


34 


27 


6 


41-5 


American 


29 


8 


2-7 


33 


9 


26 


2 


4 


76 


20 


3 


47-5 


,, 


30 


6 


3-6 


27 


7 


3 





4 


84 


30 


8 


820 


Gorgonzola 


40 


3 


5-3 


26 


1 


22 


1 


4 


36 


27 


7 


26-5 




33 


9 


4-6 


26 


7 


23 


6 


4 


06 


25 


8 


450 


Dutch 


41 


8 


6-3 


10 


6 


27 





5 


11 


32 


5 


400 


,, 


37 


6 


6-5 


22 


5 


23 





4 


58 


29 


1 


490 


Gruyere 


28 


2 


4-7 


28 


6 


30 





4 


93 


31 


3 


37-5 




35 


7 


3-7 


31 


8 


31 


1 


4 


49 


28 


7 


41 


Stilton 


19 


4 


2-6 


42 


2 


29 





4 


73 


21 


1 


38-5 


J } . • * • • • 


21 


2 


2-9 


45 


8 


32 





4 


14 


36 


3 


45-5 


Cheshire... 


37 


8 


4-2 


31 


3 


31 


6 


4 


03 


25 


7 


430 


,, 


31 


6 


4-4 


35 


3 


31 


8 


4 


16 


26 


5 


470 


Double Gloucester 


33 


1 


5-0 


23 


5 


31 


4 


4 


99 


31 


8 


380 


j» )) 


37 


4 


4-6 


28 


1 


32 


3 


4 


5 


28 


3 


410 


Caniembert 


47 


9 


4-7 


41 


9 


31 





3 


43 


21 


8 


32-0 


,, 


43 


4 


3-8 


22 


6 


35 





3 


83 


24 


4 


330 


Parmesan 


32 


5 


6-2 


17 


1 


28 





6 


86 


43 


6 


280 


Rocquefort 


29 


6 


C-7 


30 


3 


36 


8 


i 


-I'l 


28 


3 


190 


Double cream ... 


57 


6 


3-4 


39 


3 


31 


3 


3 


14 


19 





400 


Bondon ... 


39 


5 


0-7 


24 


4 


29 


4 


1 


48 


9 


4 


420 


York, cream 


63 


1 


1-4 


6 


5 


29 





2 


76 


17 


9 


41-0 


Cheddar, average 


33 


5 


4-0 


29 





25-9 


4 


3 


27 


4 


— 


American ,, 


27-5 


4-5 


30-4 


— 


4-6 


29-7 


— 



Cheese is in many respects a very valuable food, rich in flesh- 
forming and energy-producing material ; indeed, it is so rich in 
nitrogen and fat that a meal of bread and cheese supplies the 
needs of the system as well as an elaborate meal of meat and the 
usual accompaniments. A comparison of the digestibility of 
meat and cheese is, however, very much against the latter. There 
are many people who cannot digest cheese at all. Amongst other 
consequences, it is often followed by an attack of dyspepsia, and a 
supper of bread and cheese is accountable for many evil dreams. 
It is a good diet for people who lead a very active life and spend 
much of their time in the open air, for those who have healthy 
organs, and especially a good stomach. With other individuals, 
particularly those of a sedentary habit, a small piece of cheese at 
the end of a meal acts as a stimulant to the digestive organs, 
calling forth the muscular activity of the stomach and provoking 
a flow of gastric juice, to which extent it is an aid to digestion, 
similar to mustard or any other condiment. To people who have 

11—2 



164 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

a weak stomach or any chronic disorder thereof, cheese is as great 
an enemy as other indigestible articles, and should be avoided 
by them, just as they avoid liver, kidney, tough meat, pastry, 
pickles, or other article which experience has taught them to be 
injurious. 

References: ^ The Analyst, xxvi., 309. - AVynter Blyth's 'Manual on 
Foods.' '•' The Anah/st, 1893, xviii., 52. ^ Ibid., xxii. ^ Jour. State Med., 
April, May, and July, 1902. « Ibid., April, 1902. " Blyth, loc cit. » The 
Analyst, xxi., 89. " Blyth, loc. cit. '" Sharp, Pharni. Jour., 3rd series, xxiii., 513. 
" Blyth, loc. cit. '^ Wroblewski, Oest. Chcm. Zcit., i., 5. ^^ Leeds and Blackader, 
Am. Jour. Pharm., September, 1901. " Bordes (Ami. dc C'him. Anal., 1903), 
the Analyst, 1903, 214. ^' Burroughs Wellcome and Co.'s 'Recipes for Pepton- 
ising Foods.' ^•' 'Butter-fat,' Hehner and IMitchell, Jour. Chcm. Soc. Abstracts, 
1899, 55. 17 Blyth, loc. cit. i» The Analyst, July, 1894, 146. 



CHAPTEE XIII 
VEGETABLE FOODS 

The vegetable kingdom affords a vast number of members from 
which we may derive nutriment. Many of the proximate chemical 
and physiological principles composing the substance of vegetable 
tissues are isomeric with similar principles in animal tissues, and 
they are in such a form as to be readily assimilable by the human 
organism. A comparison of the chemical elements in the vege- 
table substances and those in the human body also shows them 
to be nearly the same. Thus, all plants contain carbon, derived 
from the air by the aid of chlorophyll ; hydrogen, absorbed in the 
form of water, ammonia, and other compounds ; oxygen, in com- 
bination as carbonic acid, water, and many salts ; nitrogen, in 
the proteids and salts, taken up by plants chiefly in the form of 
nitrates and compounds of ammonia ; sulphur, a constituent of 
the proteids and other tissues, is derived from the sulphates in 
the soil ; phosphorus, mainly in the proteids, but also in seeds 
and other vegetable tissues, is obtained from the phosphates in 
the soil. Iron, in the green parts of plants and seeds, is absorbed as 
a salt from the soil, and is absolutely necessary for the formation 
of chlorophyll. This has been denied by some authorities, but 
others as strenuously assert it. At any rate, leaves produced by 
plants which are not supplied with iron, as when seeds are grown 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



165 



in water, become white or chlorotic as soon as their store of this 
element is exhausted, but recover their colour if a minute pro- 
portion of an iron salt is dissolved in the water, thereby showing 
the important part played by iron in plant life. Potassium salts 
derived from the soil are abundant in all parts of plants which 
are rich in carbohydrate, such as sugar or starch ; also in the 
green parts of plants. They are necessary for the due performance 
of vegetable metabolism, for in their absence the absorption of 
carbonic acid and utilization of carbon by plants containing chloro- 
phyll is not properly carried out. Sodium is found abundantly 
in all plants. Calcium and magnesium salts are also important 
constituents necessary for the normal growth of plants. They are 
absorbed from the soil as nitrates, phosphates, and sulphates. 
Silicon exists in the cell walls and various fibrous tissues, being 
taken up from the soil as silica. Though of no great nutritive 
value, a small proportion of the latter is useful in the economy 
of both plants and animals. Iodine and bromine occur in marine 
plants ; lithium in tobacco ; zinc, copper, and boron in other 
plants in small but appreciable quantities. 

The inorganic substances of plants consist chiefly of chlorides, 
sulphates, and carbonates, of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, silicon, 
and iron. As an example of the proportion of such inorganic 
constituents, the following table, quoted from Vine's ' Botany,'^ 
shows the amount in 1,000 parts of dry, solid matter in wheat, 
potatoes, apples, and peas : 















.2 o 










Potash 
Soda. 


S 
3 


1 


.2 <o 


losphor 
Acid. 

ulphuri 
Acid. 




o 

a 

'3 






1 




S 




Cu ^ 


O 


Wheat grain ... 


19-7 


6-14 ' 0-44 


0-66 


2-36 


0-26 


9-26 007 


0-42 0-04 


Potato tubers... 


37-7 


22-76 0-99 


0-97 


1-77 


0-45 


6 o3 2-45 


0-80 1-17 j 


Apples 


14-4 


5-14 3-76 


0-59 


1-26 


0-20 


1-96 0-88 


0-62 — 


Peas (seeds) ... 

1 


27-3 


11-41 0-26 


1-36 


2-17 


0-16 


995 0-95 0-24 i 0-42 



The Organic Constituents. — Plants, like animals, are made up of 
cells, which have a cell wall and contents. The cell walls consist 
of cellulose, C^Hj^O^, a carbohydrate. The outer layers may be 
transformed into cutin, a substance only slightly permeable by 
water ; or lignin, which forms a hard, inelastic coat to the cells. 



166 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

but is nevertheless permeable ; or to a mucilaginous substance, 
which is hard and horny when it is dry, but swells by absorption 
of much water when it is exposed to wet, as in linseed and quince- 
seed ; or into gum, which is soluble in water. 

The cell contents are living and not-living substances. Cells 
which compose the succulent parts of plants, as the leaves, fruit, 
and seeds, or tissues and stems — that is, the bulk of the actually 
living tissues — contain a large amount of living protoplasm, which 
is a substance of a viscid, tenacious character and proteid nature. 
It fills the cells, l)ut contains spaces or vacuoles for the cell sap, 
the nucleus, and various other particles of differentiated proto- 
plasm called the plastids. 

The plastids consist chemically of proteids so differentiated as 
to form two distinct bodies. One of these, called the leuco- 
plastid, is colourless, and its function is to manufacture starch 
for the use of the plant ; the other, containing the chlorophyll 
colouring matter, is called the chloroplastid, and forms starch 
grains also, but it assists in the general process of assimilation 
and metabolism by constructing organic substances under the 
influence of light from carbonic acid and water. 

The non-protoplasmic or not-living contents of the cells consist 
of the sap and certain formed bodies, the most important of which 
are starch grains, proteid granules, sugars, fats, oils, salts and 
water, which are such important elements in our food as to 
need further consideration. They fall into two classes, nitro- 
genous and non-nitrogenous. 

1. The nitrogenous or proteid substances in plants consist of a 
molecule of a complex chemical constitution to which no definite 
formula has been given. They are generally of a viscid natui-e, 
like the white of an egg, and usually indiffusible. Some are 
soluble and others insoluble. Thus, the albuminates, such as gluten 
of wheat, are insoluble in water and solutions of neutral salts, 
but are soluble in alcohol and dilute acids or alkalies. Globulins, 
which enter lar^--ly into the formation of aleuron grains, are 
insoluble in 'vvatei' or solutions of neutral salts (as chloride of 
sodium), but are coagulable on boiling, and sometimes crystal- 
lizable. Albumin, soluble in water and coagulable on boiling, 
rarely occurs ; but albumoses are a common constituent of 
aleuron : they are soluble in water, not coagulated by boiling, 



VEGETABLE FOODS 167 

but are precipitated by acids. Peptones occur in germinating seeds. 
With these albuminoids phosphorus is a constant accompaniment, 
owing to the presence of nuclein and lecithin. Vegetable globuHns 
are regarded as compounds of acid albumin with a saHne basic 
salt, which, on being freed from the base, splits into casein and 
hetero-albumose. Many other vegetable albumins are likewise re- 
garded as compounds of acid all)umin with saline bases, which 
form casein when freed from the salt. The inorganic salts, there- 
fore, play an important part in the elal)oration of albumi- 
noids. 

Aleuron grains are granules of proteid matter of various sizes, 
and oval or spherical in form. They are somewhat larger than 
starch grains, and, although they usually have no structure such 
as the latter presents, are sometimes crystalloid. Aleuron is a 
mixture of proteid substances consisting of a homologous series, 
beginning with hetero-albumose, and passing through globulins 
into albumins. It occurs abundantly in seeds, usually in the 
vacuoles of the cell protoplasm. Each particle has a nucleus, 
consisting of a crystal of double phosphate of lime or magnesia, 
about which the proteid substances are deposited.^ Other proteid 
crystalloids sometimes occur in the tubers of potatoes and leaves 
of plants — e.g., vitellin, a kind of globulin. 

2. Amides, or amido-acids, are a class of nitrogenous bodies 
occurring in plants and seeds — c.//., asparagin, leucin, and tyrosin 
— which are soluble in water, diffusible and crystallizable, but 
are not coagulated by boiling. 

3. Various alkaloids of a nitrogenous character occur, as theine 
in tea, caffeine in coffee, theobromine in cocoa, atropine in bella- 
donna, morphine in opium. 

4. Enzymes having the power of digesting fleshy substances 
are secreted by some of the higher plants, as pineapple and papaw. 

The non-nitrogenous substances in the cell contents are as 
follows •? 

1. The Carbohydrates include the amyloses, saccharoses, and 
glucoses. The amyloses (C,.H^|,0-) are : 

Starch, especially abundant in seeds, tubers, roots, rhizomes, 
and other parts of plants, where it serves as a reserve of nutri- 
ment. Starch is isomeric with cellulose, which forms the cell 
walls. It ia obtained by macerating the parts which contain iti 



168 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

as a dry white powder, which swells up when boiled with water 
and gelatinizes on cooling. It gives a characteristic blue colour 
with a solution of iodine. It exists in ths form of granules, 
which are produced by the plastids. These are always stratified 
in layers, around a hilum, which consist of granulose and cellulose 
alternately. Their size varies from the merest point seen under 
the microscope to yttVo inch or larger, and their shape is charac- 
teristic of the plant which contains them. 

Dextrin occurs as the result of the action of diastase on starch. 
It is soluble, but not crystallizable. 

Inulin is also in solution in the cell sap of many plants, e.g., in 
Compositae — in tubers of dahlias and artichokes. It is soluble 
and crystallizable, as also are the gums and mucilages which 
belong to the same group. 

The saccharoses (C,.,H.,oOjJ are cane-sugar and maltose. 

Cane-sugar, as is well known, occurs in the juices of many 
plants, as sugar-cane, maple, and beet - root. Maltose results 
from the action of diastase on starch. 

The glucoses (C^Hj.,0,;) are : Dextrose, in grapes and many 
other fruits and parts of plants ; and laevulose, an invert sugar, 
which occurs in many fruits, especially dried ones. 

The sugars are derived from the hexatomic alcohol mannite 
(CgH-^^Og), which occurs in the cell sap of Fraxinus excelsior and 
other plants. 

2. Glucosides occur in many plants. They are substances 
which hy association with an enzyme give rise to glucose and 
another body — c.(j., amygdalin, coniferin, salicin, sinalbin. 

3. Hydrocarbons occur as oily drops throughout vegetable 
protoplasm. They are especially abundant in seeds, in many 
of which the oil is a non-nitrogenous reserve material, as in palm, 
castor-oil plant, rape and flax seeds, and fruits such as olives. 
As elsewhere, they are combinations of glycerine and fatty 
acids. 

4. There are essential oils in various parts of plants which 
give a characteristic odour, such are camphor, terpene, 
eugenol, and the volatile ^oils and flavourings in fruit and 
flowers. 

5. Organic acids are common, such as the palmitic and oleic 
fatty acids, as well as oxalic, salicylic, boric, malic, tartaric, citric, 



VEGETABLE FOODS 169 

acetic and tannic acids, which are usually in combination with 
alkaline or saline bases. 

A review of the various divisions of the vegetable kingdom 
shows that foods are derived mainly from the following Natural 
Orders : 

The Fungi are a large class from which very few articles of 
food are drawn. They are principally : 

1. The truffle [Tuber cBstivnm et brumale) and the morel 
(Morchella esculenta), both of which belong to the subclass 
Ascomycetes. 

2. The mushrooms : Several varieties of the subclass Basidio- 
mycetes, N.O., Hymenomycetes. The common mushroom is 
Agaricus campestris, but there are other edible varieties. Poisonous 
kinds are Lactuarius torminosus and A. muscarms. 

The Phanerogams contain very many food-producing Natural 
Orders, as follows : 

1. Palmaceae contains the date-palm {Phcenix dactylifera), a 
native of Asia and Africa; and the sago-palm (Metrolyxon rmnpliii 
et Iceve), grown in the Moluccas, contains starch grains in the 
tissues of the trunk, which, being extracted and prepared, form 
sago. 

2. Graminaceai yields some of our most valuable food stuffs — 
e.g., maize {Zea ma'idis), cultivated in warm countries and a 
native of America ; sugar-cane (Sacchai-um ojficinarum), a native 
of India and cultivated in tropical districts ; rice [Oryza sativa), 
cultivated in Asia, America, and Southern Europe ; the varieties 
of oats {Avcna sativa) ; h&rlej (Hordeolum sativum and varieties) ; 
wheat {Triticuvi sativum and varieties) ; rye (Secale ccreale) ; 
durra [Sorghum vulgare). 

3. Liliaceae contains onion [Allium cepa), shalot (.4. asco- 
lonicum), chives [A. Sclicenoprasum), leek [A. porrmn), garlic 
[A. sativum vel vulgare), asparagus [Asparagus officinalis). 

4. Bromeliacese contains pineapple [Ananas sativa), the fruit of 
which is a berry ; the berries of each flower coalesce and form 
a spurious fruit. Under cultivation they contain no seeds. 

5. Musacete : Banana [Musa sapienium et ensetc), and plantain 
[M. paradisaica). 

6. Marantacese : The true or West Indian arrowroot is a 
starchy powder obtained from Maraiita arundinacea. 



170 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

7. Zingiberaceae : The East Indian arrowroot is the starch 
obtained from the rhizome of Curcuma angustifolia et leucorrhiza 
of this order ; ginger is the rhizome of Zimjiher officinale ; carda- 
moms the seeds of Eletteria cardamomuvi. 

8. Orchidiaceae : Oil of vanilla is a flavouring essence derived 
from Vanilla passiflora. 

9. Morace£e : Fig {Ficus carica), mulberry (Morus alba et 
7iigra), and bread-fruit {Artocarpus incisa). 

10. Juglandeace£e : Walnut is the fruit of Juglans regia. 

11. Chenopodiacetfi : Spinach {Spinacia oleracea), red beet 
(Beta rubra), sugar-beet {B. altissima), and mangold [B. vulgaris). 

12. MagQoliaceas : Chinese or star anise {Illicium anisatum). 

13. Myristicaceae : Nutmeg and its mace (Myristica moschata). 

14. PolygonaceEB : Garden rhubarb, the leaf-stalks of Rheum 
rhaponticuvi et unchilatum. 

15. Cruciferffi : Contains a large number of important green 
vegetables, as — Watercress {Nasturtium officinale), cabbage [Bras- 
sica oleracea), scotch-kale or cow-cabbage [B. acephala), savoy 
{B. bullata), red and white cabbage [B. capitata), brussel 
sprouts [B. gemmifera), brocoli (Botrytis asparagoides), cauli- 
flower {B. cauli flora), turnip [Bapa depressa), turnip cabbage 
(Napa brassica), swede turnip {Rutabaga), mustard {Sinapis 
alba et nigra), horseradish {Cochlcaria armoracia), sea-kale {Caki- 
lina), pennycress {TJilaspi), cresses {Scnebiera et Lepidium), 
radishes {Raplianus sativus). 

16. Capparidacese : Capers are the flower-buds of Capparis 
spinosa. 

17. Ternstroemiaceae : Black and green tea {Thea cliinensis). 

18. Sterculiacete : Cocoa and chocolate prepared from Tlieo- 
broma cacao, a tree of tropical America ; kola, the seeds of Cola 
acuminata, a tropical African tree. 

19. Linacete : Linseeds from Linum usitatissimum. 

20. Erythroxylaceae : The leaves of coca {Erytliroxylon coca). 

21. Eutaceae : The suborder Aurantiese contains the citron 
{Citrus medico), lime (C. limetta), lemon (C. limonum), bitter 
orange {G. vulgaris), sweet orange (C. aurantium sinense), and 
many varieties). 

22. Ampelidaceae, suborder Yitace®, contains grapes (Vitis 
vinifera, and many varieties). 



VEGETABLE FOODS 171 

23. Euphorbiaceae : Tapioca, obtained from cassava, the fecu- 
lum of Maniltot utilissima. 

24. Umbelliferse : Many useful plants, as— carrot {Daucus 
carota), parsnip (Pastinaca oleracea), celery (Ajnum graveolens), 
parsley {Petroseliniim sativum), aniseed {Pimjjinella anisum) 
carraway seeds {Carum carui), fennel (Fosniculum), angelica 
(Archantjelica), and samphire {CritJimuvi), which grows on rocks 
of the seashore. 

25. Cucurbitaceae : FamTpkin {Cucicrbita pepo), cncnmher (Cucii- 
mis sativa), melon (C. melo), water-melon (CitruUus vulgaris). 

26. Papayaceaa : The papaw {Carica ixipaya), an edible fruit of 
the tropics containing a rich proteolytic ferment, papain. 

27. Myrtacea3 : Cloves (the flower-buds of Eugenia carjjo- 
phyllus), pomegranate (Punica granatum), Brazil nuts (the seeds 
of BerthoUetia exelsa of tropical countries). 

28. Eosaceae : The genus Prunes contains almonds (the seeds 
oi Amygdalus communis), ipea.Gh. {Prunus persica), sloe {P. spinosa), 
apricot (P. armeniaca), plum (P. domestica and varieties), 
cherry (P. ccrasus and varieties), damson (P. maludeh). 

The genus Pomea; has the quince (Cydonia), pear [Pyrus 
communis and varieties), and apple (P. mains and varieties). 

To the genus Eubus belong the raspberry {lluhus idcBUs), black- 
berry {B. fructicosus), dewberry (P. ccesius) ; and the strawberry 
{Fragaria and varieties, genus Fragaria). 

29. LeguminoScB : The legumes include peas {Pisiim sativum et 
arvense), beans (Vicia faha), lentils [Lens esculenta), French 
bean (Phasiolns vulgaris), and scarlet runner (P. ymdtiflorus). 

30. Saxifragacea? : To the tril)e Eil)esieoe belong the red and 
black currants [Bihes ruhrtim et nigrum), and gooseberries 
(P. grossularia). 

31. Labiatae contains the sweet herbs : Mint (many varieties of 
mentha), thyme {Thymus vulgaris), basil {Calamintha arvensis), 
sweet marjoram {Origanum marjorana), sage {Salvia officinahs), 
savory {Saturia hortensis). 

32. ConvolvulaceaB : The sweet potato is the tuberous rhizome 
of Batatas edulis of tropical America. 

33. Solanaceae contains potato (the tuber of Solatium tubej'o- 
sxun), tobacco {Nicotiana tahacum). Chili peppers (the fruit of 
Capsicum longrum), tomato (the fruit of Lycopersicu7n escidentmn). 



172 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

34. DioscoreaB : Yams (the tuberous roots of Dioscorea saliva 
and other plants of the tropics), rich in starch. 

35. Oleaceffi : Ohves (the fruit of Olca Eiiroi^cea), grown in 
South Europe and Eastern countries. 

36. Vacciniaceffi : Cranberry (^Vacci)iium oxycoccos), great bil- 
berry (F. uliginosum), bilberry or whortleberry {V. myrtillus), 
red whortleberry (F. vitis-idcea). 

37. Rubiaceas : Coffee (the fruit or Ijerries of Caffea Arahica). 

38. Caprifoliaceae : Elderberry [Samhuciis nigra). 

39. Compositge : This large order yields us lettuce {Lactuca 
sativa), dandelion {Taraxacum officinale), salsafy (Tragopogon 
purrifoliiis), endive {Cichorium endivia), chicory (Cichorium 
intybus), Jerusalem artichokes (the tubers of Helianthus 
tuberosus). 

The above list gives abundant examples of the foods derived 
from the vegetable kingdom, but completeness is not claimed, nor 
will the order here given be adhered to in the following pages, as 
it is believed a better purpose will be served by grouping them 
together in various sections. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit contains sugar, salts, organic acids, and a gelatinizing 
principle called pectin. The nutritive value of fruit depends 
largely upon its proportion of sugar. Fruit-sugar or grape-sugar 
is glucose or dextrose, C^HjgOjj. Many fruits contain a large 
amount of it ; thus, grapes have 10 to 25 per cent. ; dried figs, 
60 to 70; cherries, 11; mulberries, 9 ; currants, strawberries, and 
whortleberries, each 6 ; and raspberries, 4. Fruit also contains 
a proportion of laevulose (C^jH^^Og), or invert sugar, which is un- 
crystallizable, and when pure is a syrup ; it exists in company 
with dextrose in many fruits and vegetables, especially in grapes, 
figs, cherries, gooseberries, strawberries, peaches, and plums. In 
fruits which are dried the Isevulose increases at the expense of 
the dextrose, which is inverted by means of a ferment or enzyme, 
as in raisins ; during the drying some of the remaining dextrose 
is formed into an amorphous or crystalline mass. Wynter Blyth* 
gives the following composition of fruits as the result of many 
analyses : 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



173 



Percentage Composition. 


1 


is 
Si 

boil 
o "^ 

0-39 


i 

< 


03 


Other Non- 
nitrogenous 
Substances. 


Woody Fibre, 
etc. 


4 


Apples 


83-58 


0-84 


7-73 


5-17 


1-98 


0-31 


Pears . . . 






83-03 


0-36 


0-20 


8-26 


3-54 


4-30 


0-31 


Plums ... 






81-18 


0-78 


0-85 


6-15 


4-92 


5-41 


0-71 


] 'runes ... 






84-86 


0-40 


1-50 


3-56 


4-68 


4-34 


0-66 


Peaches 






80-03 


0-65 


0-92 


4-48 


717 


6-06 


0-69 


Apricots 






81-22 


0-49 


116 


4-69 


6-35 


6-27 


0-82 


Cherries 






80-26 


62 


0-91 


10-24 


1-17 


6-07 


0-73 


Grapes ... 






78-17 


0-59 


0-79 


24-36 


1-96 


3-69 


0-53 


j Strawberries 






87-66 


1-07 


0-93 


6-28 


0-48 


2-32 


0-81 


[ Raspberries 






86-21 


0-53 


1-38 


3-95 


1-54 


5-90 


0-49 


Bilberries 






78-36 


0-78 


1-66 


5-02 


0-87 


12-29 


1-02 


Blackberries 






86-41 


0-51 


1-19 


4-44 


1-76 


5-21 


0-48 


Mulberries 






84-71 


0-36 


1-86 


9-19 


2-31 


0-91 


0-66 


Gooseberries 






85-74 


0-07 


1-42 


7-03 


1-40 


3-52 


0-42 


Currants 






84-77 


0-51 


2-15 


6-38 


0-90 


4-57 


0-72 1 



The organic acids in fruit are citric, malic, acetic, tartaric, 
oxalic, salicylic, and boric acids, alone or in combination with bases 
to form salts of potassium, sodium, calcium, etc., and they are 
mingled with phosphates, carbonates, sulphates, and chlorides of 
such bases in smaller proportion. Malic acid is in considerable 
quantity in apples, pears, red and white currants, blackberries, 
raspberries, the berries of the mountain ash, quinces, pineapples, 
and Morella cherries ; malates in sweet cherries, rhubarb, etc. ; 
oxalates in tomatoes, plums, gooseberries, strawberries, and rasp- 
berries ; citric acid and citrates in lemons, oranges, quinces and 
lime fruits, gooseberries, strawberries, and raspberries ; tartaric 
acid is found chiefly in grapes, though it exists also in other fruit 
and vegetables ; salicylic acid occurs, probably in the form of the 
methyl ester,^ in currants, 0-57 milligramme per kilo ; cherries, 
0-4 ; plums, 0-28 ; grapes, 0-32 ; crab-apples, 0-24 ; also in straw- 
berries, raspberries, mulberries, blackberries, apricots, peaches, 
and oranges; and boric acid'' is found in oranges and lemons, 
lemon juice containing as much as 05 per cent. When fruit" is 
ripening the acids are progressively consumed, with liberation of 
carbonic acid gas and formation of carbohydrates and ethers. 

The flavour and aroma of fruit is due to various ethers, and 
essences have been prepared in the chemical laboratory by 



174 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

mixing etherial salts and oils witti each other until the odour of 
every fruit has been imitated. The oil of apples is valerianate 
of amyl ; the flavour of pears is due to acetate of amyl, of pine- 
apples to butyrate of ethyl, greengage to ocnauthylate of ethyl, 
quince to pelargonate of ethyl, mulberry to suberate of ethyl, and 
melon to subacetate of ethyl. ^ 

The Value of Fruit. — Fruit is eaten fresh or dried, and in the 
form of marmalade, jam and jelly. Fruit jelly — such as apple or 
black currant— consists of vegetable gelatine or pectin {G.^^^^0.,.^), 
a carbohydrate chemically combined with acids and related to the 
gums, together with fruit salts and sugar, a very pleasant and 
agreeable addition to various culinary preparations. 

Jam or marmalade consists of fruit prepared and preserved by 
boiling in very strong syrup ; the chemical composition thereof is 
that of sugar with fruit and fruit juice, some of the flavour having 
escaped during cooking owing to its volatility. Home-made jam 
or marmalade is an excellent article of diet, and for children or 
others to whom a large proportion of carbohydrate material in 
the food is essential bread-and-jam forms an excellent meal. 
Some shop jams are known to have been adulterated by tasteless 
vegetable tissues — such as marrow or turnip — which is a fraud, 
although the substituted material may not be injurious to health; 
and glucose of artificial manufacture has been used to lessen the 
quantity of sugar required in preserving. 

The value and importance of fresh fruit, especially to the 
dwellers in towns, cannot be too freely written al)out; they are 
equal in value to vegetables. The organic acids in fruit arouse the 
appetite and aid digestion by increasing the flow of saliva and, 
indirectly, of the gastric juice ; they are stimulants and sialo- 
gogues. As tlie fruit reaches the intestiaes, the acids increase the 
acidity of the chyme, and stimulate the secretions of the liver and 
pancreas, the intestinal glands and muscles ; their influence upon 
the blood is marked : they render it less alkaline, but never acid, 
by combining with a portion of the alkaline salts of the serum.'-' 
The phosphoric acid increases the phosphates in the red blood 
cells, and the potassium salts promote the formation of white 
blood cells ; hence they are antiscorbutic and of value in anaemia, 
general debility, and convalescence from acute illness. Fruits 
containing oxalates — as tomatoes, gooseberries, and strawberries 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



175 



— are useful in amenorrhtea, and for persons subject to bronchitis 
and asthma ; such as contain salicylic acid — as strawberries, 
raspberries, currants, blackberries, and oranges — are a valuable 
addition to the dietary of rheumatic persons. The final stage in 
the digestion of fruit is the conversion of the fruit acids and salts 
into alkaline salts, chiefly carbonates ; they are therefore useful 
in scurvy, rheumatism, gout, and other diseases of the uric acid 
diathesis ; they increase the secretion of the urine and its 
alkalinity — indeed, they are one of the most certain agents to 
render the urine alkaline, to stimulate the kidneys, and indirectly 
the skin, and thereby increase the total excretion of salts and 
other materials. Briefly, fresh fruit is cooling, refreshing, and 
tends to correct constipation, but in excess may cause diarrhoea. 
Apples, the fruit or pome of Pyrus viahis and many varieties, 
genus Pomeffi, N.O. Eosacese. They are grown universally in the 
temperate regions of the globe, and form an important article of 
food, being admirably adapted for cooking, compotes, marmalade, 
and jelly. The composition of several kinds analyzed by A. H. 
Allen ^"^ is as follows : 



Blenheim orange ... 
Derby (cooking) ... 
Sweet Alfred (cider) 
Tom Put (cider) ... 



81-62 
84-74 
80-29 
84-14 



Acid (as Malic). 


Glucose. 


Sucrose. 


Ash. 


0-88 


9-28 


6-28 


0-44 


0-56 


8-74 


2-29 


0-3.3 


09 


9-4.3 


2-95 


0-54 


0-36 


7-21 


2-84 


0-44 



Browne ^^ states that there is 1 to 3 per cent, of starch in some 
apples, which, together with the acids, is chiefly converted into 
sugar in the ripe fruit. 

Apples for dessert should be characterized by a firm, juicy 
pulp, piquant flavour, regular form, and beautiful colouring ; for 
cooking, by the property of forming by the aid of heat a pulpy 
mass of equal consistency. Apples are wholesome food either 
raw or cooked. They are mildly aperient, and are accorded the 
property of strengthening a 'weak' stomach. Dyspeptics should 
not eat too freely of raw apples, but an abundance of cooked ones 
is not only gx'ateful to them, but curative. They are of singular 
use for persons of sedentary habits whose livers are sluggisb, by 
.assisting to eliminate noxious mattei's from the body ; and as 



176 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

they contain a larger amount of phosphoric acid in an easily 
assimilable form than any other fruit, they are also of value as a 
nervine and a brain food. 

Cider is a fermented liquor made from the juice of apples, and 
is not inferior to some wines when due attention is paid to the 
selection of the fruit and its manufacture. It contains the acids 
and salts of the fruit, the acidity being sometimes increased by 
acetous fermentation. It is drunk largely in some districts. It 
is considered a valuable remedy for chronic rheumatism and 
gout, for which dry cider is the best kind. Other observers assert 
that in cider-making counties, where it is much drunk, chronic 
rheumatism is exceedingly prevalent, and a connection is sought 
between this frequency and the drinking of cider which would 
possibly be more readily found in the soil of the district. 
Cider 1- ^^ contains, according to various analysts, 2 to 6 per cent, 
of alcohol by volume, 0-15 to 0-30 acetic acid, 0-08 to 0'2 of 
malic acid, and 0'25 to 6 of sugar. 

Pears, the fruit or pome of Pyrus communis, genus Pomese, 
N.O. EosacesB ; grown wild in many parts of Europe and Asia, 
from which the numerous cultivated varieties have originated. 
They are not so commonly used for food as apples, because they 
are not so well adapted for cooking. Good pears are a delicious 
dessert fruit. They are characterized by a saccharine aromatic 
juice, a soft, pearly, liquid pulp, which readily melts in the 
mouth in some varieties, principally the summer ones, but is 
firmer in most winter kinds, in some of which the pulp only 
softens on being stewed or boiled. Pears contain 7 per cent, of 
sugar, 0'4 of albuminoids, 5-2 of pectose and gum, 3-2 of cellulose, 
04 of mineral, and only 1-0 of malic acid (Church). ^^ 

Perry is a fermented liquor similar to cider, made from the 
juice of pears. 

Prickly Pears are the fruit of Opuntia vulgaris, N.O. Cactaceie. 
A fleshy, succulent fruit, sometimes called the ' Indian fig,' the 
interior of which is delicious, soft, and comparable to honey. 

Quince is the fruit of Cydonia vulgaris, genus Pomeaa, N.O. 
Eosacese. It is a handsome yellow fruit, cultivated throughout 
Asia and in Europe. It is hard and austere when plucked from 
the tree, but it makes an excellent preserve or marmalade. 
They give an excellent flavour to any other fruit with which they 



VEGETABLE FOODS 177 

are cooked, and make wine with a very fine bouquet by fermenta- 
tion of the juice. 

Plums, the fruit of Primus domestica and varieties, genus 
Pruneae, N.O. Eosacea\ The fruit is a drupe, containing a stone 
in which is the kernel. There are about a dozen species inhabiting 
the north temperate zone of the globe. They are much used in 
cooking for puddings, tarts, jams, and jellies. Analyses show 
them to contain 6-15 per cent, of sugar, 4-92 of other non- 
nitrogenous and 0'78 of nitrogenous matters, and 0"85 of free 
acid. They are an agreeable and refreshing fruit, containing about 
the same amount of nutriment as apples and pears ; Imt they are 
apt to cause diarrhoea, therefore weak and delicate persons should 
avoid them, except when cooked. Prunes are a variety of plums 
(P. domestica, var. Juliana), which are largely preserved by 
drying them. They are of ovoid shape, their exterior black and 
wrinkled, the pulp brownish. They contain 1-5 per cent, of free 
acid, but only 3-56 of sugar, 4-68 of other non-nitrogenous matters, 
and a purgative principle. i' The latter makes them useful as an 
aperient, and very suitable for persons subject to constipation. 
They are grown in France, Spain, California, and other fruit- 
growing districts. A little art is required in cooking prunes or 
other dried fruit when it is desired to bring them into the 
condition of fresh fruit. Let them be first washed in warm 
water to remove any grit ; drain it away ; then cover them 
with cold water, and allow them to stand for twelve hours ; put 
them in a slow oven, and cook gently. They should not be 
allowed to boil. All kinds of dried fruit should be cooked in the 
same way. 

Damsons are a species of Pruneae, Prunus mahaleb. There 
are several varieties. The fruit is smaller and finer than 
plums ; they are of similar composition, but have more astrin- 
gency. 

The Sloe is a wild species of plum (Prunus sjnnosa) which 
grows on a low shrub or tree in hedges and on dry banks. They 
contain a large amount of tannic and other organic acids, which 
make the fruit very sour and astringent. These qualities are 
communicated to a liquor called sloe wine, which is very useful 
for acute or chronic diarrhoea. 

Peaches are the drupe of Pnmus Persica, genus Prunege, 

12 



178 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

N.O. Eosaceae. Introduced into Europe from Persia, and now 
grown largely in California, and cultivated in warm or temperate 
climates in many parts of the globe. The fruit is a large and 
downy drupe with a kernel, which contains a large proportion of 
amygdalin, and produces prussic acid. There are two sorts — the 
free-stones and the cling-stones. The truit, which is delicious, 
contains about 5 per cent, of sugar, 7-71 of other non-nitrogenous 
and 0-65 of nitrogenous matters, and 0-92 of free acid. They are 
mildly laxative, diuretic, and sedative. Poisonous effects have 
been produced by eating an excessive quantity, owing to the 
development of prussic acid. Nectarines are a variety of the 
common peach, and sometimes grow on the same tree. Peaches, 
nectarines, and apricots, containing little sugar, may safely be 
eaten by the gouty and diabetic. 

Apricot is the roundish pul:)escent fruit of Prunus Armenica, 
genus Prunete, N.O. Eosaceie. This is believed to have been a 
native of Armenia, hence the name. It was introduced into 
England about the sixteenth century, but it is grown in many 
places. It flourishes in abundance in the oases of Africa, where 
the fruit is dried and carried to Egypt as an article of commerce. 
Fruit grown in its wild state is more acid than that of the 
cultivated varieties. Analyses show ripe apricots to contain 
4:'6 per cent, of sugar, 6'35 of non-nitrogenous, but only 0*49 of 
nitrogenous matters and 1-16 of free acid; or, according to 
Desmouliere ^'^ — saccharose, 3*8 per cent.; invert sugar, 2-25; 
dextrose, 0-35. When gathered before it is soft and mealy the 
fruit is of delicious flavour and very agreeable, but may cause 
diarrhoea if eaten uncooked by delicate persons. Persimmon is the 
fruit of Diosjjyros Virginiana of America, about the size of a small 
plum, containing a few oval stones. It is astringent when green, 
but soft, palatable, and very sweet when ripe. Eaten raw, cooked, 
dried, and made into cakes and wine. 

Cherries, the fruit of varieties of Prunus cerasus, subgenus 
Cerasus, N.O. Eosacese. The red, red-heart, white-heart, and black 
cherry are cultivated varieties of C. avium and C. vulgaris. They 
contain 1*17 of non-nitrogenous, and 0*62 per cent, of nitrogenous, 
matters, 10-24 of sugar, and 0-6 of free acid. They are used as a 
dessert, and for culinary purposes. Cherry brandy or rum and 
cherry cordial are made by expressing the juice of ripe berries and 



VEGETABLE FOODS 179 

mingling it with an equal part of spirit and some spices ; when 
used, they are diluted with hot or cold water, 

G-rapes, genus Vitis, N.O. Ampelidaceae. Native of Central Asia, 

and introduced into Europe by the Phoenicians, but grows in all 

countries from 55° north to about 40° south latitude. The vine 

needs a dry climate, because rain spoils the bloom of grapes. 

The roots are long, and therefore adapted to such a climate. 

The best known and most important species is the Vitis vinifera, 

of which there are many varieties. They are grown largely in 

what are known as wine-growing countries — France, Spain, Italy, 

the Canaries and Azores. The fruit ripens out of doors in 

England in warm summers. Vineyards were once known in 

England, and an inferior wine produced from the fruit ; but 

although vineyards are now unknown there, the grapes grown 

in hothouses are most excellent. As a fruit they are delicious, 

nourishing and fattening ; in large quantities they are diuretic, 

and will cure constipation and some diseases of the stomach. 

The ' grape cure ' consists in eating several (sometimes many) 

pounds of the fruit daily, their value being due chiefly to their 

large proportion of sugar. In phthisis and other wasting diseases 

care must be taken that they do not cause diarrhoea, as that 

might aggravate the disease and hasten a fatal termination. On 

the other hand, sweet grapes, when they do not purge, are 

exceedingly valuable as a food, and sometimes curative in chronic 

bronchitis, heart disease, gastric and intestinal atony, and even 

in Bright's disease they may, when combined with a mild climate, 

contribute to restoration to health or a prolongation of life. 

They contain from 12 to 25 per cent, of sugar, about 2 of other 

non-nitrogenous and 0*6 of nitrogenous matters, besides gum 

and mucus, with salts, chiefly hydropotassic tartrate or cream 

of tartar, phosphates, sulphates, and chlorides of lime, magnesia, 

soda, and potash, and traces of iron, alumina, and silica. The 

acidity of the unripe grape is due to malic and tartaric acids, and 

depends upon the period of development and good or bad seasons. 

As ripening proceeds the malic acid disappears, and free acid then 

amounts to 0'79 per cent. The sugar of grapes consists of glucose 

or dextrose, 12 to 25 per cent., besides laevulose or invert-sugar. 

Grape-sugar, as previously stated, is not peculiar to grapes, but 

exists in many fruits ; it is less sweet than cane-sugar, and can 

12—2 



180 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

be artificially produced by the chemical action of a dilute acid 
on cane-sugar, starch, dextrose, or cellulose. When heated to 
400° F. it becomes caramel, which is used as a colouring agent for 
cooking and other purposes. 

Raisins ( Uvce) are the dried fruit of various species of the vine. 
There are several good varieties, as Valencias, lexias, and mus- 
catels. Sultanas are a small seedless variety. In the prepara- 
tion of raisins the fruit is dried by natural or artificial heat. 
Muscatels are produced by cutting partly through the stalk, and 
allowing the half-separated fruit to hang on the vine and dry in 
the sun. Lexias, on the other hand, are pulled from the stalk 
and dipped in a prepared liquor, and then spread upon baskets to 
dry in the sun. Eaisins contain grape-sugar and IjEvulose, also 
tartrate of potassium and other salts. They are refreshing, 
nutritive, demulcent, balsamic, sweetening and flavouring agents, 
and are useful to some extent in treating the same diseases as 
grapes. It is urged by some authorities that raisins, and especially 
the expressed juice, save the nitrogenous tissues and lead to a 
formation of fat, increase the flow of urine, but diminish the 
output of urea and uric acid, are laxative, but check intestinal 
fermentation, and stimulate the hepatic functions, especially the 
secretion of bile. They are a ready means of supplying carbo- 
hydrate food for people during long walks or climbing, and, being 
of small compass, can be easily carried. Their demulcent pro- 
perty is also calculated to check the thirst which is so often 
troublesome to travellers. 

Currants. — The dried currants of the shops are a small kind of 
grape cultivated in the Levant, Morea, and some of the Greek 
islands, of which they form a staple product. Of various kinds, 
Vostizzas are excellent and Patras are moderately good. The 
fruit is plucked from the stalks, dried in the sun, and packed in 
large wooden receptacles. They are much used in cookery, and 
have the same chemical composition and properties as raisins. 

Strawberries are the fruit of several species of the genus 
Fragaria, N.O. Eosaceae. They are cultivated in most cold or 
temperate climates, in Europe, America, and the mountains of 
Asia. They are much used for dessert and for cookery, being especi- 
ally grateful to invalids, and are cooling, diuretic, and laxative. 
They contain 1-07 per cent, of nitrogenous matter, 6-28 of sugar, 1 



VEGETABLE FOODS 181 

of free acids, besides other fruit salts. Salicylates, chiefly as 
methyl salicylate, i" are a normal constituent of this fruit, for which 
reason they are especially good for rheumatic and gouty persons. 

Raspberries. — The fruit of Ruhus idceus, red and white, genus 
Eubus, N.O. Rosacete. Native of Great Britain and parts of 
Europe. They contain 0'53 per cent, of nitrogenous matter, 
3-95 of sugar, 1-54 of other nitrogenous substances, 1-38 of free 
acid, and other organic salts. They are not so nutritious as 
strawberries, but are used in cooking, confectionery, various 
liquors and cordials, and to make raspl^erry vinegar. They are 
said to be valuable for nervous and bilious people, and are useful 
in relaxed conditions of the bowels. Raspberry vinegar is 
pleasant and acidulous, and, being diluted, is suitable as a 
drink in feverish conditions. The yellow raspberry, or cloud- 
berry, is essentially diuretic. The dewberry (E. ccasius) is a 
pleasant fruit having tonic and astringent properties. Black- 
berry (B. fructicosus), the fruit of the common bramble, contains 
4-5 per cent, of sugar, 1-75 of other non-nitrogenous and 0'5 of 
nitrogenous material, and 1-19 of free acid. Owing to the large 
proportion of seeds, they are not very nutritive, but they are used 
in culinary art along with apples and other fruit to make tarts 
and jam, to which they give a delicious flavour, and they make 
an agreeable jelly. They are astringent and tonic, and useful in 
relaxed conditions of the bowels. 

Bilberries. — Thefruit of Vaccinium ulujinosui)i,'N.O. Vacciniacese, 
a shrub growing in Scotland and elsewhere. They contain 5 per 
cent, of sugar, OB? of other non-nitrogenous matter, 0'78 of nitro- 
genous matter, 1-02 salts, besides 1'66 free malic and citric acids, 
but no tartaric or oxalic acids. The carbohydrates are glucoses, 
pentoses, and inosital.^^ 

Whortleberry, or lesser bilberry (F. viyrtilhis), and red whortle- 
berry (F. vitis-idceus), l)elong to the same order. Their juices 
are reputed useful for chronic diarrhoea and rheumatism. 

Cranberries. — The fruit of F. oxycoccos, N.O. Vacciniaceae. 
They grow on peat bogs and other swampy areas. They contain 
a very large amount of free acid, which renders them a very 
austere fruit when used alone ; nevertheless, they are used in 
tarts and jam, and make a well-flavoured jelly and sauce. Like 
the previous berries, they are reputed beneficial for chronic 



182 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

rheumatism, presumal)ly from the excess of acids, which, by 
their combination with alkaline bases, stimulate the kidneys and 
render the urine more alkaline. 

Mulberries are the fruit of Moms alba et nigra, N.O. Moracese. 
They contain 925 per cent, of sugar, 2-31 of other non-nitrogenous 
and 0-36 of nitrogenous matters, 186 of free organic acids, and 
some salts ; as a fruit they are about as rich in nutriment as 
cherries ; the black variety are most esteemed. They are a cool- 
ing, laxative fruit, used as dessert and for making syrup. Mull^erry 
and apple juice combined make a cider of port wine colour. 

Grooseberries. — -The fruit of Bihes grossularia, N.O. Saxifragaceas, 
a spinous shrub. The fruit of different species varies in size, 
colour, and hairiness ; a wholesome fruit, useful for plethoric 
and bilious persons, and to make a jelly suitable for invalids- 
Average analysis : 7 per cent, of sugar, 1-42 of free acid, and 1-5 
of non-nitrogenous principles. 

Currants. — Fruit of varieties of Eibes, tribe Eibesieae, N.O. 
SaxifragaceaB. There are the red currant, li. riibrum; white. 
It. album; and black, B. nifjrum; used for dessert, jam, jelly, wine. 
They have a slightly diaphoretic action, soothe an irritable throat, 
quench the thirst, and cool the system. Analysis : 6-4 per cent, 
of sugar, 0-9 other non-nitrogenous and 0*5 nitrogenous sub- 
stances, 2-15 of free acid, and 0-7 of other salts. The berries of 
B. sanguineum are darker than B. rnbrum; they are insipid, and 
incorrectly ascribed with poisonous properties. 

Elderberries. — Fruit of Sambucis nigra, N.O. Caprifoliacese. 
The juice is a gentle laxative and alterative, useful for rheu- 
matism and other chronic ailments ; occasionally used for adul- 
terating port wine ; an agreeable wine and spiced cordial is 
made from it. 

Barberries, Berberis vulgaris, N.O. Berberidacese. The fruit 
is extremely acid, but makes an agreeable jelly, which allays 
thirst and feverishness, and is reputed good for atony of the 
stomach and torpid liver. Analysis : 15-58 per cent, of stones 
and skin, 5-92 malic acid, 4-67 glucose, 6-61 gum, 0-OG ashes, 
67'16 water. ^'' 

Rhubarb is not a fruit, but its use as such credits it with a 
place along with them. It is the leaf-stalk of Bheum rkaponticum 
et undulatum, N.O. Polygonaceae. It is a valuable article of diet, 



VEGETABLE FOODS 183 

rich in vegetable salts, and is in season when fruit is scarce. Its 
acidity is largely due to oxalates and malates of potash and 
other allialine bases, which render it stomachic, tonic, and 
aperient, useful to persons with amenorrhoea, or with asthmatic 
or bronchitic tendency ; but it is contraindieated in gravel, calculus, 
gout, and some cases of rheumatism. The juice of rhubarb and 
lemons mixed, and sweetened with sugar, becomes charged with 
carbonic gas after being bottled for a few days, and is a refreshing 
beverage. 

Oranges." — Sweet oranges are varieties of Citrus aurantium 
sinense; bitter oranges, C. vulgaris; suborder Aurantieae, N.O. 
EutaceaB. The orange-tree is a native of India and China, but is 
grown in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and other parts of South 
Europe, and in many warm and sunny districts and islands of 
Asia, Africa, and America. The fruit is gloliular, bright yellow, 
divided into eight or ten segments, each of which is filled with 
a mass of oblong vesicles containing a juicy pulp ; the rind con- 
tains an essential oil of aromatic and characteristic odour. It is 
one of the most fragrant and delicious fruits provided by Nature ; 
it is not largely nutritious, l)ut has antiscorbutic and other 
valuable salutary properties. They are as useful in illness or con- 
valescence as they are acceptable in health, and in feverish con- 
ditions, when fruit is not entirely contraindieated, their juicy 
pulp is antifebrile, and has l)een credited with specific curative 
properties in influenza. Orangeade is a drink made by adding 
the juice of oranges to an infusion of fresh orange-peel in boiling 
water ; agreeable in feverish conditions. 

Bitter or Seville oranges (C vulgaris) are used along with 
sweet oranges to make marmalade, the fruit being sliced and 
preserved in strong syrup. Marmalade is nutritious to the 
extent of the sugar contained in it, and antiscorbutic by its 
salts ; it is appetizing, and forms an unstimulating addition to 
our food. It should consist wholly of fine selections of fruit, but 
adulteration is not uncommon. 

The peel is stomachic and aromatic ; that of both bitter and 
sweet oranges is dried and candied, and used for flavouring 
puddings, cakes, and confectionery. The juice of Valentia 
oranges-" contains 10-9 per cent, total solids, 1*7 citric acid, 
7*6 sugar, 0"52 ash, 0*027 phosphoric acid, and the juice of others 



184 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

is of similar composition. The oil of sweet oranges contains 
terpenes, decylic aldehyde, dextralinalool, nonyl-aldehyde, and 
caprylic acid. 

Lemons, the fruit of C. livionum, suborder Aurantiea?, N.O. 
Eutaceai. The lemon, though a native of India, grows freely in 
South Europe and warm countries generally. Its constitution 
resembles that of an orange, but the pulp is much more acid, and 
yields a fragrance and a juice which is used as an ingredient of 
many delicious liquors. The peel or rind yields an aromatic oil 
(essence of lemon), which is used as a flavouring agent ; and the 
peel, dried and preserved or candied, is used as a dessert and in 
cookery, and is an aromatic stomachic. Tlie juice contains citric, 
malic, and phosphoric acid, both free and combined with potas- 
sium and other bases ; it is cooling, stimulating, and soon quenches 
thirst. It is particularly suited to people of bilious or sanguine 
temperament, but those with an irritable stomach should avoid 
it. Lemon-juice enters the blood in the form of alkaline citrates, 
which are in part oxidized in the system into carbonic acid and 
water, and render the urine alkaline ; while the salts of potassium 
and phosphoric acid act upon the red corpuscles of the blood, of 
which they are both important elements. It is used with great 
success in the treatment or prevention of scurvy, the cause of 
which is obscure, but is undoubtedly connected with the absence 
of fi-esli vegetables and fresJi animal food from the diet ; it is, 
therefore, an important item of a ship's stores for long voyages. 
Lemon juice is also of some value in the treatment of menor- 
rhagia, as a spray to the nostrils in nasal catarrh, and as a local 
application to the throat in diphtheria and other septic forms of 
tonsillitis or pharyngitis, and for diphtheritic conjunctivitis. In 
acute illness it is chiefly used for making cooling drinks, such as 
lemon water or effervescing draughts. 

The oil of lemon^^ contains citral, nonyl-aldehyde, octyl- 
aldehyde, citronellal, dextro-limonene, cymene, phellandrene, 
and pinene. 

Citron, or C. vieclica, and Lime, the fruit of C. limetta et acida, 
belong to the same order ; they are acidulous, antiscorbutic, and 
antiseptic ; they increase appetite, check nausea and vomiting, 
stimulate the liver, and are of undoubted value for scurvy and 
rheumatism. The juice is the part used ; as much as ^ pint a 



VEGETABLE FOODS 185 

day has been given in acute rheumatism, in which it acts as 
a refrigerant and neutralizes the poisons of the disease. It is 
a convenient medium for the administration of pepsin, 5 grains 
of which is mixed with a tablespoonful or two of the juice, and 
diluted with a little effervescing potash or soda water. It is also 
used for flavouring punch, sherbet, and other drinks. 

Lemon juice contains 5-5 per cent., and lime juice about 7, of 
free citric acid ; they contain likewise small quantities of acetic, 
formic, and other organic acids, together with sugar and mucilage. 
The British Board of Trade has established a standard of strength 
for these juices : they should have a density of 1-03, and an 
acidity equivalent to 30 grains of citric acid in each ounce.-"- Lime 
juice is colourless, somewhat opaque, and extremely sour ; it is 
expressed in bulk in Sicily and England, and preserved by the 
addition of 2 ounces of brandy to each pint, or some boric or 
salicylic acid, and is occasionally adulterated by the addition of 
mineral acids. 

Lemon water. — Squeeze the juice from two big lemons, and put 
it aside ; cut the lemons into very thin slices or scrape them to 
pieces ; put them into a saucepan with 2 pints of water and 
2 ounces of sugar ; boil them for five minutes, and pour the liquor 
upon the lemon juice ; strain ; when cold it is ready for use. It 
may be made of greater strength, and diluted when drunk with 
Apollinaris, Salutaris, or other effervescing water. It is very 
useful in all febrile conditions, and in nausea and vomiting. In 
some cases of vomitiog and diarrhoea, when all else is rejected, 
the white of an egg whipped up and mixed with | pint of lemon 
water will often remain in the stomach, thereby providing nutri- 
ment and assisting to check the disease. Meat essences may 
also be given in it. 

Lemon kali is the name given to (a) a pleasant effervescing 
drink made by mixing lemon juice or citric acid in a solution of 
bicarbonate of potash and sweetened water ; (b) a powder com- 
posed of tartaric acid, citric acid, sugar, and carbonate of soda, 
which will effervesce when mixed with water, and make a 
pleasant drink. 

Lemonade. — Take 1 lemon, 1 ounce of citric and tartaric acid, 
the white of 3 eggs, 1^ ounces of sugar, 3 pints of boiling water. 
Squeeze the juice from the lemon, slice the lemon and put it 



186 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

with the tai'taric and citric acids and sugar, and pour on it the 
boiling water ; strain it when cold ; beat up the egg-whites to 
a froth and mix them in the cold liquid ; bottle it, and it is 
ready for use. Dilute it with three or four times its volume of 
water when it is drunk ; the addition of half a teaspoonful of 
bicarbonate of soda to each tumblerful will convert it into an 
effervescing beverage. 

Acid Drinks. — There is a current opinion that lemon juice, 
lime juice, and other acid drinks, will cure or prevent obesity. 
There is little doubt that they will do this, and lime juice is the 
least injurious of the acids used as an anti-fat. But the consumer 
should be warned that they may do more ; very few stomachs 
can stand an excess of acids for very long, and they cause not 
only loss of flesh, but of colour and freshness, and health and 
vivacity may be destroyed. 

Tamarind, the fruit of Tamar Tnd'ica, N.O. Leguminosae. A 
cooling acid fruit, containing sugar, cream of tartar, acetic and 
citric acids, as well as various aromatic acids ; it is refrigerant 
and gently laxative. Tamarind whey is an agreeable cooling 
drink, made by mixing 1 ounce of tamarind pulp in 1^ pints of 
milk. Infusion of tamarind is made with the same proportion of 
hot water ; these drinks are particularly grateful to persons 
suffering from feverish and inflammatory diseases. The fruit is 
imported from the East and West Indies. The latter are prepared 
by putting them into jars with layers of sugar between them, or 
by pouring boiling syrup on them ; the pulp of the former is most 
esteemed, and is preserved by the addition of salt and dried in 
the sun. 

Pomegranate, the fruit of Punka granatum, N.O. Myrtacese, is a 
fruit as large and round as an orange, with a hard rind, and interior 
divided into compartments containing pulp and seeds ; the pulp 
is subacid, but of pleasant taste ; the rind is highly astringent, and 
contains pelletierine, an alkaloid which is powerfully destructive 
to tapeworms. The expressed juice of the ripe fruit contains 
0-51 per cent, of acids and 10 to 13'6 of sugar. -^ 

Tomato, the fruic of Lycopersicum esculeiitum, N.O. Solanacese. 
Grows in all warm and temperate climates ; is a most excellent 
fleshy fruit ; eaten raw, roasted, or boiled, in soup, sauce, salad, 
or ketchup. Composition : Saccharine matter, carrotin, organic 



VEGETABLE FOODS 187 

salts, a brown resinous substance, an acrid volatile oil, and an 
alkaloid. Keported to have a beneficial effect on the secretions 
of the liver. 

Pineapple, Ananas sativa, N.O. Bromeliacete. The pineapple 
is a spurious fruit, or, rather, a collection of berries, each corre- 
sponding to a flower ; under cultivation they are seedless. The 
whole forms one of the most fragrant and delicious desserts, the 
juice of which is very grateful. A piece of pineapple taken at the 
end of a meal materially aids digestion by yielding a proteolytic 
ferment capable of converting albuminates into peptone ; the 
juice, in doses of a tablespoonful or more, is very beneficial in 
cases of chronic bronciiitis, attended by the secretion of tough 
and tenacious mucus. 

Papaw is the fruit of Carica Papaya, N.O. Papayaceae, grown 
in the tropics. It contains a milky juice, which when dried 
constitutes papayotin. The active principle is an enzyme or 
proteolytic ferment called papain, which will assist digestion of 
meat by its action upon the sarcolemma, whereby it exposes the 
albuminous or sarcous elements to the influence of the pepsin in 
gastric juice. The fruit, or its active principle, may therefore 
have a wide sphere of usefulness. The juice can be obtained 
commercially, and may be taken in doses of 10 drops after meals, 
and papain is taken in doses of 5 to 10 grains in cachet or dis- 
solved in glycerine ; as a sedative to the stomach in gastralgia, 
vomiting, flatulence, acid eructations, gastric ulcer, atony of the 
stomach, and other diseases, in which the aid of digestants is 
deemed desirable. Papain is a white, somewhat granular powder, 
■J gramme of which will digest 1 pint of milk in thirty minutes. 
Papaw juice acts as a galactogogue, but neither the fruit nor its 
preparations can be taken safely by pregnant women. 

Papayotin is used industrially in the preparation of meat 
essences and other foods. Reports of its activity are conflicting. 
Emmerling-^ has particularly investigated it, and found it to be 
active in an alkaline medium ; its action on meat is slow, fresh 
additions of papayotin being necessary from time to time, but the 
resulting mixture contains a large proportion of albumose and 
peptone, showing that the enzyme has decided proteolytic power. 
The fruit, when green, is an excellent vegetable, resembling 
vegetable marrow, and is boiled and eaten with meat. The 



188 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



papaw of North America is a sweetish, edible fruit belonging to 
Ananaceaa. 

Melon, the fruit of Cucuniis melo, and Water-melon, CitrulUs vul- 
garis, N.O. Cucurbitacese. In nearly all hot countries the melon 
is esteemed as a delicious, cool, succulent fruit, rich in juice, which 
is highly flavoured, but of no very high nutritive value. Water- 
melon (C vulgaris) is diuretic and demulcent, useful in irritation of 
the kidneys and bladder, and a mild intestinal and hepatic 
stimulant; it grows in most hot and dry regions, especially on a 
warm and sandy soil : in Egypt, India, China, Japan, the West 
Indies, and America. It forms a large portion of the meat and 
drink for the population of North Africa during some months of 
the year. The fruit has a rich, delicious flavour, and an abundant 
watery juice of sweetish taste, for which it is highly prized. 

Plantain, the fruit of Musa paradisaica, N.O. MusaceiB, has a 
luscious, nutritive pulp ; it is larger than the banana, for which 
it is sometimes sold, and is eaten raw or fried in slices. An 
extremely useful food to the natives of tropical countries. They 
are excellent when roasted in ashes, and when green they may 
be boiled and eaten as a vegetable. 

Banana, the fruit of Musa sapieutum and other varieties, N.O. 
Musaceae ; cultivated in tropical and subtropical countries, not 
confined to any region of the torrid zone. Bananas are too 
well known to need description. The pulp is soft, of delicious 
and luscious flavour, and contains a good proportion of nitro- 
genous and carbohydrate material. They are eaten raw or 
fried in slices, and the green fruit is boiled as a vegetable. 
The pulp is also dried and ground into flour, which is used 
in invalid foods, and can be made into cakes and biscuits, and 
even into bread when mixed with the more glutinous flour of 
wheat. 



Composition. 


Water. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Ash. 


Fibre. i^^S"'^ 


Ripe fruit, Fiji'^'... 
Ripe fruit, Jamaica 
Banana flour'-"^ 


75'5 
73-3 
10-62 


1-71 

1-3 

3o5 


0-6 
1-5 


20-13 

22-0 

81-6 


2-45 

0-8 

1-60 


. . ! 1 

1-60 0-26 



Banana flour is prepared from the unripe fruit of M. 
sapicntum, -which is gathered green, before the starch is converted 



VEGETABLE FOODS 189 

to sugar, sliced, dried in the sun or by artificial heat, powdered 
and sifted. It is used for damper, cake, and porridge. The fruit 
is fit to eat as soon as it has lost all the green colour, and remains 
fit, no matter how black it may be, so long as the skin is un- 
broken, for until the latter occurs there can be no admission of 
air and no decomposition. 

In many countries the banana is a far more important article 
of food than in Europe, for to an immense portion of the human 
race it is what wheat, rye, barley, and potatoes are to the 
inhabitants of temperate zones. It is, perhaps, less nutritive than 
potato and wheat, but it is more productive than any other plant 
grown for food, and more people can subsist on a given area 
planted with banana-trees than on an equal space of ground 
planted with wheat or potato. 

Bread-fruit, Artocarpus incisa, N.O. Moraceee, a large, some- 
what round and fleshy mass, 6 inches or more in diameter, which 
is roasted before being eaten. It is a native of the Canaries, 
South America, and Pacific Islands, and forms one of the 
principal foods of South Sea islanders. The bread-fruit of 
tropical Asia is Artocarpus intecjrifolia, called the Jack-tree ; the 
fruit is oblong, and contains seeds like chestnuts, which are 
roasted and eaten. The bread-nut of the West Indies is Brosi- 
mum alicastrum. The nuts, when roasted, taste like hazel- 
nuts, and are eaten as bread. 

Fig, the fruit of Ficus carica, N.O. Moraceae ; has not the same 
nature as an apple, orange, or other seed-bearing fruit, but is a 
large receptacle containing an enormous quantity of very small 
flowers, the ripe carpels of which are called seeds, and are 
embedded in a pulp. They are eaten fresh or dried, and, con- 
taining 60 to 70 per cent, of sugar, are very nutritive. They are 
natives of the Mediterranean regions. The best come from 
Turkey, but they are grown in Greece, Syria, Arabia, Spain, 
South France, and North Africa. 

Dates, the fruit of the date-palm, Phcenix dactylifera, N.O. 
Palmaceae. The best are imported from North Africa, Tunis, 
Egypt, Palestine, and Persia. Tafilat dates are very fine. The 
fruit is the produce of the female tree, and the bunches are 
composed of 150 to 200 dates, which weigh 20 to 25 pounds. 
Very nutritious, eaten fresh or dried ; one of the principal foods 



190 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of Arabs in the deserts, the fruit being pounded or kneaded into 
the form of cakes. 

Olives, the fruit of the olive-tree, Olea Europcea, N.O. Oleacese. 
Grown in Southern Europe and Eastern countries ; imported 
from the South of France, Portugal, Spain, and Italy. Eaten 
fresh or preserved, they are nutritive and laxative ; used as a 
dessert, and consumed largely by the inhabitants of districts in 
which they grow as an article of diet. The nutriment consists 
chiefly of the oil which they contain. Olive oil, the finest of 
which is salad oil — Huile de Provence, Lucca oil — is of a pale 
greenish colour, mild taste, and very little odour ; it consists of 
72 per cent, of olein, a fluid organic oil or olgeoptene, and 28 per 
cent, of palmitin, a solid oil or stearoptene, both being compounds 
of the corresponding fatty acid and glycerine. An ounce of olive 
oil a day encourages the action of the bowels and aids digestion 
in a remarkable way. In larger quantities it has been prescribed 
as a cure for gall-stones, the oleic acid being supposed to have a 
solvent power over the gall-stones ; but the treatment has met 
with little success in the writer's hands. As a food olives are 
wholesome, and are digested in the same way as other fats and 
oils. The ripe olive contains just what an ordinary vegetarian 
diet lacks, especially fruit ; by being a wholesome source of fat 
they materially add to the value of other vegetarian dishes. 
They are of value to sufferers from nervous diseases, rheumatism, 
liver complaint, Bright's disease, diabetes, and all other ail- 
ments in which there is a loss of flesh. 

Nuts, such as cob-nuts, filberts, chestnuts {Castanea vesca, N.O. 
Corylaceae), walnuts (Jicglans regia, N.O. Juglandeaceae), Brazil- 
nuts (BertJiolletia excelsa, N.O. Myrtacete), almonds (Prumis 
amygdalus, N.O. Eosaceee), contain a large proportion of oil and 
nitrogenous material, which renders them very nutritious, but 
many of them are indigestible and somewhat astringent. They 
should not be eaten by persons of feeble digestive power or subject 
to constipation ; but they are, when well masticated, suitable 
food for the obese and corpulent, or for those sufi'ering from 
Bright's disease and diabetes ; they may be eaten freely by the 
latter, a meal being occasionally made of them — indeed, they are 
less likely to cause indigestion when they form the sole element 
of a meal than when they are eaten for dessert at the end of an 



VEGETABLE FOODS 191 

ordinary full meal. They are sometimes ground into meal or 
cooked. The French Galette is made from chestnut meal with 
salt, butter, and eggs, and is said to form a more satisfactory 
food than white bread, and contains the elements of a perfect 
food in due proportion ; also in France polenta is porridge made 
of chestnut meal and milk. 

Brazil-nuts grow on a gigantic tree, BertholUiia excelsa, N.O. 
MyrtaceaB. The fruit is a large, round pericarp of thick wood 
about the size of a child's head, and divided into four compart- 
ments, each of which contains six or eight nuts. Like other 
nuts, they contain a kind of vegetable milk, also oil, sugar, phos- 
phorus, and the nitrogenous materials necessary to stimulate 
the growth and maintain the life of the young plant which grows 
from the kernel. Corenwinder found that fresh kernels have the 
following composition, which shows them to be a highly nutritious 
food : Water 8 per cent., oil 65, nitrogenous matter 15-3, carbo- 
hydrate 7 '39, salts (including 1-35 of phosphoric acid and 2-35 of 
silica, lime, and potash) 3 •TO.-" 

Almonds, the seeds of Primus Amygdalus communis et nana, 
N.O. Eosacese. Imported from Spain, Portugal, Turkey, Morocco, 
Palestine. 

Sweet Almonds, A. comvnmis dulcis, known as Jordan almonds, 
are mostly from Valencia, Malaga, and Palestine about the 
Jordan. They are eaten as nuts, and used for culinary purposes. 
Ground into flour, almond paste, cakes, biscuits, and bread for 
persons suffering from diabetes, are made of them. They contain 
50 per cent, of the bland faxed oil of sweet almonds, which consists 
chiefly of olein with some palmitin and stearin, and is of the 
same value and action as olive oil, but more agreeable. The rest 
consists of albumin, sugar, gum, fibre, and amygdalin. Being 
practically devoid of starch, and containing much albumin, they 
are very proper food for diabetic persons. 

Bitter Almonds, A. communis amara, mostly from Morocco. 
They are not used for food, and very little as flavouring agents 
in cookery. Essence of almonds is a preparation made from them 
or their essential oil. The ripe seed is short and broad, and has a 
bitter taste. It resembles the sweet almond, which, however, is 
long and narrow. Their composition is similar to that of the 
sweet variety. They contain 2 or 3 per cent, of amygdalin, a 



192 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

glucoside which, in the presence of water, and under the influence 
of emulsin — an enzyme — breaks up into the volatile or essential 
oil of almonds, free prussic acid, formic acid, and glucose. The 
essential oil is highly volatile and poisonous, containing 4 to 8 per 
cent, of prussic acid. It does not exist in almonds ready made, 
but is the result of decomposition. Its development can be 
observed by bruising bitter almonds and triturating them with 
water, when the odour of prussic acid is emitted. Amygdalin also 
occurs in sweet-'^ almonds, but the emulsin does not, whence 
prussic acid is not developed. It also occurs in other substances. 
Thus Lehmann obtained from bitter almonds 2-5 per cent., 
peach kernels 2-35, plum kernels 0*96, apple seeds 0-60, 
cherry kernels 0'82, cherry laurel leaves 1-38. -'■^ It likewise 
exists in the bark of buckthorn, may-blossom, and in small 
quantities in many other vegetable substances. 

References: ^ Vine's ' Botany. ' -Ibid. ^ Watts' ' Dictionary of Chemistry.' 
■* Blyth's 'Manual of Foods.' ^ Traphagan and Burke, Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, 
XXV., 242. " Chem. Zcit., 1902, 26, 465. "^ Max Graeber, Ann. Argon., 1897, 23. 
* Attfield's ' Chemistry.' ^ Mitchell Bruce's ' Materia Medica.' ^" The Analyst, 
1902, 184. " Jour. Am. Chem. Sac, 1901, xxiii. i- The Analyst, March, 1891. 
1-^ Bulletin 71, U.S. Agricult. Dep. ^* The Analyst, March, 1891. ^^ Bruce, loc cit. 
'® Ann. de Chim. Anal., 1902, vii., 323. ^^ Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, xxv., 242. 
^^ 'Year-book of Pharmacy,' 1897, 65. ^^ Grieger, Vicrtel. Pract. Pharm., xxii., 
559. ^" Farnsteiner and Stubner, the Analyst, February, 1905. '^^ Schinimel's 
'Report,' October, 1902. -- Blyth, loc cit. ^^ Jour. Chem. Soc, Abstracts, 1898, 
16. ** Jour. State Med., Chemical Notes, May, 1902. -^ Doherty, Chemical N^ews, 
Ixvi., 187. -" Coppock, ibid., 1897, 75. -' 'Year-book of Pharmacy.' 1874,35 
-^ Watts' ' Dictionary of Chemistry.' -" ' Year-liook of Pharmacy,' 1876, 23. 

CHAPTER XIV 
VEGETABLES 

Fresh green vegetables are absolutely necessary for our well- 
being. Freshness is as necessary as the vegetable itself. Tinned 
vegetables and fruit have not the same effect. The experience of 
travellers who go beyond the bounds of civilization, and of 
sailors who go beyond the reach of fresh green vegetables, is that 
scurvy and other signs of ill-health arise after being deprived of 
them for a season, the ill-effects only being prevented by the 
free use of lime juice. All vegetables contain important salts, 
malates, oxalates, citrates, tartrates, besides free organic acids, 
in their juices, which play an important role in our physiological 
economy. Such salts are quite as necessary for our blood and 



VEGETABLES 193 

secretions as proteid material for renewing our tissues and carbo- 
hydrate for supplying energy. That scurvy is not merely the 
effect of change of climate is proved by the fact that it was once 
a very common disease in England and other countries, when the 
cultivation of vegetables for food was less common than at the 
present day ; and even now instances occur when persons are 
deprived of them for a length of time. A vegetable, as cabbage, 
cauliflower, potato, lettuce, or other salad, should therefore 
constitute a portion of at least one meal a day. 

Vegetables are cooked by boiling, roasting, or baking, and 
some are equally good food cooked either way. It is better to 
boil vegetables in soft water, because hard water deposits a 
layer of lime and other salts upon them which prevents the 
penetration of heat into their interior, thereby delaying the 
cooking and sometimes spoiling their appearance. 

Persons in robust health, with healthy stomachs, and leading 
active lives, may eat all sorts of vegetables, however cooked, 
without injury, except when they are taken in excess. In robust 
health ' appetite waits on good digestion.' In youth and early 
manhood the digestive functions are very energetic, much 
nourishment is needed for the development of the body, and 
vigorous physical exercise gives an appetite and digestive powder 
which vegetables cannot resist. But in aged persons, in those 
of sedentary occupation, and invalids, the functions of digestion 
are neither so powerful nor energetic. The digestion of all things 
is slower and feebler, and any extra tax upon the stomach, the 
least excess at table, mental disturbance, or additional physical 
strain, means discomfort and dyspepsia for days ; indeed, there 
are some vegetables which cannot be digested by these persons 
under any circumstances. Experience as well as science has 
established the fact that a dinner is not complete without the 
conjunction of animal and vegetable food. Therefore, those who 
are only able to digest vegetables, especially green vegetables, 
with difficulty should have them in the form of consomme or puree. 
Both are similar preparations, only a puree, of which mashed 
potato carefully prepared may be taken as an example, is some- 
what thicker than consomme. In their preparation the cooked 
vegetable is minced and pounded in a mortar until it is reduced 
to a pulp, and then rubbed through a hair sieve to remove skin 

13 



194 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



and rough fibres. It is afterwards warmed up in a stewpan or 
saucepan with a little white stock and some cream, and flavoured 
with pepper and salt. If but little stock and cream be added, it 
remains thick enough to eat with a fork, and is called a puree. 
"When, however, the sieved vegetable is added to a soup made 
of white stock and cream or milk, it is called a consomme." 
Such also is the soup which is thickened with mashed potato, 
flour, pea flour, revalenta, and it should have no more consistence 
while hot than will enable it to adhere slightly to the spoon. 
Vegetables which, in their ordinary state, create flatulence, 
dyspepsia, and other distressing symptoms, are when thus treated 
comparatively free from such deleterious effects. 

Composition of Vegetables : Vakious Analyses. 











Non- 










Nitro- 


Fat. 


Sugar. 


nitro- 
genous 


Cellulose. 


Water. 


Salts. 




geiious. 






Extrac- 










1-89 


0-2 




tives. 








Cabbage 


2-29 


2-58 


1-84 


90-0 


1-2 


Cauliflower ... 


2-53 


0-38 


1-27 


3-7 





87 


90-3 


0-8 


Brussels-sprouts 


4-83 


0-46 


— 


6-22 


1 


57 


86-0 


1-2 


Spinach 


3-15 


0-54 


0-08 


3-26 





77 


91-0 


1-9 


French beans... 


2-77 


0-14 


1-20 


6-80 


1 


14 


88-6 


0-5 


Aspai-agus 


1-97 


0-29 


0-41 


2-35 


1 


15 


94-0 


0-5 


Beet-root 


1-36 


0-04 


9-54 


9-10 


1 


07 


87-3 


0-9 


Onions 


1-59 


0-11 


2-87 


8-06 





72 


86-0 


0-7 


Carrots 


1-05 


0-22 


2-01 


8-09 





89 


88-2 


0-9 


Turnips 


0-97 


0-18 


4-10 


2-00 





99 


90-2 


0-8 


Lettuce 


1-41 


0-31 


— 


2-20 





72 


94-2 


1-0 


Celery 


1-49 


0-38 


0-78 


11-31 


1 


50 


85-1 


0-9 


Mushroom 


2-57 


0-14 


1-06 


3-81 





68 


91-1 


0-7 


Morel 


3-49 


0-25 


0-73 


3-59 





67 


90-7 


0-9 


Truffle 


8-91 


0-64 


— 


7-52 


7-93 


72-5 


2-2 



Cabbage or Greens — the large family of Brassicae, N.O. Cruciferae 
— have arisen by descent and cultivation from the wild plant or 
colewort, Brassica oleracea. It includes cabbage, B. oleracea ; 
kale or cow cabbage, B. acephala ; savoy, B. hullata ; red and 
white cabbage, B. capitata ; brussels-sprouts, B. geminifera ; 
broccoli, Botrytis asparagoides ; cauliflower, B. cauliflora. They 

* The French consomme is soup made by boiling meat and vegetables together 
to a jelly. Tot pourre, or oUa podrida of Spain, consists of meat and many kinds 
of vegetables cut into small pieces and stewed together, and Irish stew is a similar 
concoction. 



VEGETABLES 195 

may be further classified thus : (a) Kale or greens, having active 
leaves ; (b) brussels-sprouts, in which the leaf-buds form small 
heads ; (c) cabbage, whiteheart, savoy, and red cabbage, in which 
only the terminal leaf-bud forms a head ; (d) cauliflower and 
broccoli, in which the terminal bud is active and forms a flower, 
the other flowers aborting. Cauliflower is the head of the plant 
modifiea tc form a compact succulent mass ; broccoli merely 
differs from it in form, colour, and hardness, (e) Broccoli sprouts 
consist of the active open leaf-buds springing from the axils of 
the leaves. 

Seakale is Cakilinea, N.O. Cruciferae. 

Spinach is Sjnnacia oleracea, N.O. Chenopodiace^. 

These vegetables all have antiscorbutic properties ; therefore, 
while they are valuable as general articles of food, they have 
a special value and are medically recommended for all persons 
suffering from skin diseases, anaemia, chlorosis, scrofula, struma, 
gout, rheumatism, and many other diseases. The composi- 
tion of cabbage, which may be taken as representative of them 
all, is : Water, 90-6 per cent. ; albumin, 1-8 ; fat, 0-5 ; starch 
and dextrin, 5-8; mineral salts, 0-8; and woody fibre, 0-5. The 
percentage of nutriment is large in comparison with other green 
vegetables. Cabbage contains an acrid oil, which is largely 
removed by boiling. Only young vegetables should be eaten, and 
especially such as have grown rapidly, or they will not be tender. 
If they have stood the summer they should have a touch of frost 
on them to make them tender. With all greens, no matter what 
their name, the older they are the less tender they will be, and 
the more difficult their digestion. Cabbage is heavy, and requires 
a long time for digestion, from which arose a notion that it is 
very nutritious ; but we have previously shown that the most 
nutritious meat is not that which requires the longest time for 
digestion, and the same remark applies to many vegetables. 
Cauliflower is more easily digested than cabbage ; it is rather 
flatulent, but can usually be eaten with impunity by persons of 
weak stomach. Brussels-sprouts are also tender, and usually 
easy of digestion. Spinach is a soft and succulent vegetable, 
more easily digested than any of the Brassicse. It is light and 
wholesome, somewhat laxative, and useful for chronic constipa- 
tion. It does not contain much nutriment, but is very valuable 

13—2 



196 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

for its vegetable salts and juice. Seakale is easily digested and 
nutritious ; it stimulates the appetite, and is a most wholesome 
vegetable. 

Considerable care is required in the cooking of vegetables, es- 
pecially those of the Cabbage family. On this depends the flavour, 
digestibility, and value as a food. Take a savoy or whiteheart 
cabbage as an example ; let it be dressed by removing all faded 
leaves and as much stalk as possible ; quarter it, wash it in cold 
water, and drain it ; put it into a pan of /as^boiling water, to each 
gallon of which is added two tablespoonfuls of salt and a small 
piece of soda or a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Let them 
boil in this for about ten minutes, stirring them down occasion- 
ally. They should then be transferred to a second pan of boiling 
water similarly prepared, and boiled until they are tender. Some 
authorities recommend even a third water. The whole process 
of cooking requires from twenty to thirty minutes, according to 
the size of the cabbage. It should not be cooked so long as to 
remove all the vegetable juices and salts. Nevertheless, the 
cooking must be long enough to make it tender, and remove the 
acrid oil, which causes flatulence and indigestion, the latter being 
greatly assisted by the soda. When due care is paid to the 
cooking, these vegetables become as tender as spinach or 
asparagus, and rival them in flavour. 

Asparagus, sparrow-grass, consists of the young shoots of Aspara- 
gus officinalis, N.O. Liliacese. It is wholesome and nutritious, 
being one of the greatest delicacies of the garden, and particu- 
larly valuable for its early appearance. The French or Prussian 
asparagus is the fleshy spike of Omithogalum injrenaicmn. 
Asparagus contains albumin or gluten, mannite, malic acid, 
carl)onates and phosphates of lime potash, besides other salts, 
and asparagin, an active principle. The cellular tissue contains 
a nutritive substance like sago. Asparagin is a crystalline sub- 
stance which exists also in lettuce, potato, marsh mallow, chest- 
nuts, and other vegetables, and gives to them aperient, diuretic, 
and deobstruent properties. It soon passes out of the system, 
and gives to the urine a characteristic odour. Aparagus is an 
aphrodisiac, and good for nervous complaints, especially palpitation 
and nervous disorders of the heart. 

Vegetable Marrow, Cucurhita ovifera, and Pumpkin, C. pepo, 



VEGETABLES 197 

are of the N.O. Cucurbitaceae. They make an agreeable change 
with other vegetables, are very easily digested, and therefore 
suitable for all persons ; and, though not highly nutritious, they 
contain valuable juices and salts. Squash is the fruit of Cucur- 
bito melopepo, a kind of pumpkin cultivated in America as a 
vegetable. Pumpkins and other gourds are grown in all warm 
countries. The pumpkin is a large round or oblong fruit, origin- 
ally from India, grown in all tropical and subtropical regions, 
which is boiled and eaten with other substances to give it a 
flavour. 

Onions, Allium cepa; leek, A. porrum ; shalot, A. ascolonicum ; 
and garlic, A. vulgare, belong to N.O. Liliaceae. Garlic contains 
albumin, mucilage, an acrid volatile oil, salts of potash, lime, iron, 
magnesia, and silica. Onions contain albumin, gluten, mucilage, 
uncrystallizable sugar, phosphates, acetates and citrates of lime, 
soda, potash, magnesia, iron, and silica, together with free 
organic acids; and the same acrid volatile oil as garlic — viz., 
allyl sulphide. These vegetables all have similar properties, and 
are valuable, wholesome vegetables ; the bulb is the most active 
part, although the green portion is also valuable. They are 
stimulant, diuretic, expectorant, soporific, a good nerve tonic, 
and laxative. They are therefore useful in scurvy, gravel, 
kidney, and many other diseases. They are not suited to all 
stomachs alike. Some persons can eat them raw, others can eat 
them only when boiled or fried, and others not at all. They are 
most easily digested when boiled, and this deprives them- of 
much of the volatile oil. Onions hold the first position among 
them as a boiled vegetable. Spanish onions are very mild and 
sweet ; the natives eat them like an apple. Leeks are chiefly 
used with other herbs to flavour soup ; garlic to give a piquancy 
and flavour to sauces and relishes ; while both onions and 
shalots are used in salads and pickles. 

Salsafy, N.O. Compositse, is grown mainly for its root, 
which is scraped, stripped of its outer covering or bark, boiled 
rapidly in water until it is tender, eaten with white sauce 
flavoured with salt, butter, anl lemon juice; it is considered 
a delicacy. 

Turnip, Rapia depressa ; and swede turnip, BtUa baga, N.O. Gruci- 
ferae. These vegetables contain a sweet, juicy, and mucilaginous 



198 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

substance, capable of being transformed into alcohol by fermen- 
tation ; but the actual amount of nutriment is small — about 
1 per cent, of proteid and 6 per cent, of carbohydrate (starch and 
sugar). They are used as a vegetable, and also in soup and 
stews, when firm and of delicate texture, but should be rejected 
if they are soft, spongy, or fibrous. When eaten they ought to be 
thoroughly mashed or made into puree, for they are indigestible 
and create flatulence. 

Parsnips, Pastinaca oleracea, N.O. Umbelliferae, are a far more 
valuable food than turnips ; indeed, they are highly nutritious. 
They contain about 20 per cent, of nutriment, including 2-1 of albu- 
min, 6-9 of starch, 5-5 of sugar, and 6-1 of gum. They are easily 
digested, and are free from any substance which can create much 
flatus. Their richness in nutriment has induced various attempts 
to make bread of them in periods when wheat is scarce, for 
which purpose the cooked root has been mixed with wheat 
flour. 

Carrots, Damns carota, N.O. Umbelliferae, a highly nutritive 
root, containing — water 85 per cent., albumin 1-5, fat 0-2, 
carbohydrate 10-6, salts 1-0, fibre 1-7, besides a Httle gluten, 
pectin, and oil. The salts are malates and earthy phosphates ; 
the sugars are dextrose, la^vulose, and mannite. Carrotin 
(C18H24O) has a percentage composition of carbon 84-37, hydro- 
gen 9-39, oxygen 6-26. Pectin is the vegetable gelatinizing prin- 
ciple. Carrot juice coagulates when heated, and yields 629 parts 
of solid matter per 1,000, including albumin 429, carrotin 34, 
fat 10, salts 6. An infusion or decoction of carrots readily 
undergoes alcoholic fermentation by reason of the amount of 
sugar. One ton of carrots yields 12 gallon:- of alcohol by distil- 
lation. Ked, yellow, and white carrots are all useful foods. The 
young root, not fully grown, is tender, nutritious, of pleasant 
flavour, and easily digested. Fully-grown roots are not so easily 
digested, and old roots may become very fibrous and as hard as 
wood, and are unfit for food. 

Beet-root, Beta vulgaris, N.O. Chenopodiacese. There are two 
varieties of common beet — red beet, or B. Bomana, and white, 
or B. alha— both, of which form an appropriate variation from 
greens as a vegetable to be eaten with roast meat. They contain 
2 per cent, of nitrogenous material and 14 to 20 per cent, of sugar, 



VEGETABLES 199 

and are therefore among the most nutritious vegetables we possess. 
They are not sufficiently esteemed by the majority. They are also 
used as a pickle and in salads. In either way they are equally 
nutritive, refreshing, and quickly digested, and are said to be of 
especial value for female invalids who suffer from uterine dis- 
orders. Beta altissima is largely cultivated in France and other 
European countries for the manufacture of sugar. 

Jerusalem Artichoke is the potato-like tuber of Helianthus 
tuberosus, N.O. Compositse, a species of sunflower. The tubers 
contain 3 per cent, of nitrogenous material, 14 of sugar, and 2 
of inulin, a substance isomeric with starch. Tanret^ says they 
contain two carbohydrates — helianthin and synanthrin — which are 
more solul^le than inulin. They are boiled in plain water or milk, 
and eaten with white sauce, seasoned with pepper and salt. They 
are also cooked in pies and stews and in various highly-seasoned 
dishes, the spices of which tend to counteract the griping tendency 
of the tuber. They are wholesome, refreshing, nourishing, and 
fattening, but apt to produce flatulence and griping. 

Green Artichoke is the flower-bud of Cijnara scohjnius, N.O. 
Compositse, a kind of cultivated thistle. Like the former, they 
are boiled in plain water or milk, and eaten with white sauce, salt, 
and pepper, but are sometimes eaten raw, with salt and pepper. 
They are an agreeable delicacy, and easy to digest. They contain 
inulin and the ordinary constituents of vegetables, but are not 
of a high nutritive value. The entire plant, as well as the edible 
portion, contains a bitter juice, which, being mixed with an 
equal quantity of white wine, is reputed of great service in the 
removal of dropsy. 

Skirret is Siiim Sisarum, N.O. Umbelliferse ; and Scorzonera 
his2)anica, N.O. Compositse. Each kind is grown for its edible root 
or tuber. It resembles parsnip in flavour and properties ; is 
cooked by boiling, or half-boiling and frying it, and eaten with 
white sauce and pepper or other condiments. They are com- 
monly eaten in South Europe and many Eastern countries, as 
Japan, China, Korea, Siam, Burmah, Cochin China. 

Potato, the tuber of Solanum tuberosum, N.O. Solanacea?. The 
whole family of Solanacea3 are suspected, a great number of 
its members being narcotic and deleterious. The berry of the 
potato, called the ' potato-bell,' is poisonous, and many children, 



200 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

attracted ijy the Ijeautiful iiowers, have eaten and been made 
seriously ill by them, the symptoms being nausea, vomiting and 
diarrhoea, followed by giddiness, dimness of sight, dilatation of 
the pupil, and delirium. The tuber of potatoes, however, has 
no deleterious properties, which is fortunate, seeing that it is a 
principal food of millions of people, and, next to the cereals, is 
perhaps the most valuable plant for the production of human 
food. An acre of potatoes will feed double as many people as 
an acre of wheat ; indeed, there is scarcely any other vegetable 
product, unless it is the banana, which is capable of feeding so 
many people from a given area of land. 

The nutritive value of the tubers depends upon the amount of 
starch they contain, which varies from 16 to 23 per cent. They 
are deficient in proteids, which never exceed 2*5 per cent., and 
in fat, which is less than 1 per cent. ; but they contain a large 
quantity of vegetable salts, consisting mainly of chloride of 
potassium, phosphate of potash, iron, magnesia, and lime, 
besides citric, succinic, oxalic, and malic acids, alone and in 
combination with bases, which give great antiscorbutic properties 
to the potato. Balland- gives the following result of many 
analyses of the tuber : Water, 66 to 80 per cent. ; nitrogenous 
matter, 14 to 2-8 ; fat, 04 to 0-16 ; starch, 15 to 29 ; fibre, 0-75 ; 
ash, 0'97 to 1-60; phosphoric acid, 0-26. The salts are 1-79 per 
cent., and the organic acids give the juice an acid reaction. The 
nitrogenous matters are albumin, solanin, asparagin, leucin, 
tyrosin, and xanthin. The starch — potato starch — consists of 
characteristic grains, many of which are large and pyriform, 
having well-marked concentric lines and a hilum at the smaller 
end. In bulk, potato starch is a powder of fine, white, granular 
appearance, inodorous, soft or smooth to the touch, insoluble in 
cold, but soluble in boiling water. It is extracted from the tuber 
by due preparation, and is largely manufactured. It is some- 
times used to adulterate genuine arrowroot, which it resembles. 
Mixed with milk and sugar, it forms a food which is easily 
digested in the stomach and intestines, and is particularly 
adapted as a substitute for arrowroot for invalids, or, under 
certain circumstances, for infants. It can also be made into 
pastry, blanc-mange, cream, or used to thicken soup and gravy ; 
also used to mingle with cocoa or chocolate. It is, indeed, 



VEGETABLES 201 

perfectly wholesome, and equal in nutriment to East or West 
Indian arrowroot. 

By the use of dilute mineral acids and certain ferments as 
yeast, the starch of potatoes, like other starches, can be trans- 
formed into sugar of an uncrystallizable kind, which is used to a 
great extent in Eussia. Sixty pounds of potatoes yield 7*5 pounds 
of a syrup thinner than treacle, which consists chiefly of glucose 
and laevulose. This is used for confectionery, sweetmeats, as a 
substitute for honey, and to adulterate treacle or golden syrup. 
A spirit which resembles brandy, but has an odour of violets 
or raspberries, is likewise distilled from the tubers in France 
and other places, and has been used to adulterate, or as a sub- 
stitute for, the genuine article. 

Potatoes can be cooked in any way — baked, boiled, roasted, 
fried, steamed, in their skin and without it — or even made into 
bread. They are certainly best cooked in their skin, as by this 
method they lose none of their valuable salts. Mashed potatoes 
are lighter when they have been cooked in their skin. They 
should be beaten to a paste with a fork, butter or cream and 
salt being added. Boiled or steamed potatoes should be removed 
from the fire and the water drained from them immediately 
they are cooked, otherwise they become waxy or watery and 
indigestible ; but draining and leaving them uncovered near the 
fire for a short time causes an evaporation of moisture from 
them, and they become dry and mealy. 

The following methods of preparation are specially stiited for 
invalids : (a) Boil the potatoes in the skins with salt and water. 
As soon as they are cooked drain away the water, and dry them 
thoroughly over a fire. Peel them, and rub the interior through 
a coarse sieve on to a dish. Avoid touching the sieved potato, 
and it will remain very light, (b) Puree of potato : Beat up a 
pound of cooked potato with 2 ounces of butter ; stir in a tea- 
cupful of stock broth, and rub all through a sieve ; put it into 
a saucepan to warm, and serve hot. It will be a little thinner 
than mashed potato. 

Green Peas, varieties of Pisnrii sativum vel arvense, N.O. 
Leguminosa3 ; French or Kidney Beans, Phaseohis multiflora et 
vulgaris, N.O. Leguminosee ; and Broad Beans, Vicia faba, N.O. 
Leguminos£e. 



202 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Peas and beans are excellent dietetic vegetables, containing a 
considerable amount of nutriment, which is a forecast of their 
value in the ripe and dry condition, when they rival meat. 
G-reen peas and beans do not rank so high as the ripe and dry 
ones, but their deliciousness and wholesomeness rivals that of 
any vegetable grown. Blyth gives the following analysis : Green 
peas — Water, 79-74 per cent. ; carbohydrate, 13-03 ; albumin, 
6-06 ; salts, 1-12. Green beans — Water, 91-34 per cent. ; carbo- 
hydrate, 5-99 ; albumin, 2-04 ; and salts, 0-63. 

Dried peas, beans, and lentils, contain much nutriment, are ex- 
ceedingly useful as a diet, sparing the meat required to supply the 
necessary nitrogen for the tissues, and are quite capable of replac- 
ing meat or other animal food. They are not so easily digested as 
meat, and are apt to give rise to flatus from the development of 
sulphuretted hydrogen ; but they are highly prized by vegetarians 
for their economic value, and are strongly recommended when- 
ever the cost of meat requires careful consideration. They are 
also of value in certain conditions of ill-health ; for instance, 
when it is desirable to reduce or entirely refrain from meat, as 
in gouty conditions, torpidity of the liver, and diseases of the 
uric acid diathesis. Certain authors claim that, whereas animal 
food increases the trouble due to gout, rheumatism, and defective 
metabolism, legummous food, on the other hand, is speedily 
removed from the system, and does not increase the amount of 
urea or uric acid produced in the system. They are cooked 
whole, and the flour is used to thicken soup. 

The following is the composition of dried peas, lentils, and 
beans, according to Balland ^ ■^ : 



Peas 



Lentils 



Haricot beans 



French haricots 



Water. 


10-6 to 


14 2 ' 


11-7 to 


135 


10-0 to 


20-4 


9-0 to 


14-0 



Proteid. 



18-8 to 

2.3-4 
20-3 to 

24-2 
13-8 to 

2.T-1 
17-0 to 

220 



Fat. 



1-2 to 

1-4 
0-5 to 

1-4 
0-9 to 

2-4 
1-1 to 

1-9 



Carbo- 
hydrate. 



56-2 to 
611 

56 to 

62-4 
52-9 to 

60-9 
52-2 to 

63-5 



Cellulose. 


Ash. 


2-9 to 


2 2 to 


5-5 


3-5 


2-9 to 


1-9 to 


3-5 


2-6 


2-4 to 


2 3 to 


4-2 


4-2 


2-1 to 


2-2 to 


6-6 


6-5 



VEGETABLES 203 

Lentils are imported from Hungary, Egypt, and other places. 
They contain 0-2 per cent, of oxide of iron, and some phos- 
phates, but no sulphur. 

There is most fat and least nitrogen in Spanish haricots. 
Egyptian lentils are the richest in nitrogen, and small kinds are 
richer than large ones. Peas contain the highest proportion of 
nitrogen before they reach maturity. The nitrogenous or proteid 
substance of this group gives especial value to them as a food. 
It consists largely of legumin, which is not a single substance, 
but is formed of grains of aleuron, a mixture of globulins, albu- 
moses, and proteoses, oval or spherical in shape, and somewhat 
larger than starch grains, Drachendorjf'" gives the following 
composition of this substance: Carbon, 51-47 per cent. ; hydro- 
gen, 7-02; oxygen, 24-09; nitrogen, 16-82; sulphur, 4-40. 
Osborne separated from peas*' — legumin, a globulin not coagu- 
lated by heat ; vicellin, another globulin soluble in salt solution, 
which together form 10 per cent, of peas ; legumelin, 2 per cent., 
and two proteoses. The proteids from dried beans he found to 
consist of phaseolin, a globulin, which formed 20 per cent, of 
the seed ; and phaselin, which is less abundant, together with a 
trace of proteose. The proteids in lentils are practically the 
same as in peas. The carbohydrates of the group are starch, 
dextrin, sugar, gum, lecithin, and cholesterin. The salts" are 
valuable to the body ; peas, being taken as the type, contain 
27-3 parts per 1,000, including 11-41 per cent, of potash, 0-26 soda, 
1-36 lime, 2-17 magnesia, 0-16 ferric oxide, 9-95 phosphoric acid, 
0-95 sulphuric acid, and 0-42 chlorine. Their richness in phos- 
phates places them in rivalry with wheat, but as they contain no 
gluten, they cannot be made alone into bread ; and their richness 
in nitrogen gives them a position parallel with meat, but the 
vegetable proteids are not so easily attacked and converted into 
peptones as proteids of animal origin. 

Peas have more or less oval starch grains, with a central 
hilum or longitudinal cleft extending nearly the length of 
the grain. In beans the starch grains are somewhat larger 
and flattened, and the longitudinal cleft is crossed by trans- 
verse fissures. Lentils are richer in iron than peas, and have 
an advantage over them in the fact that they do not generate 



204 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

sulphuretted hydrogen in the intestine, Eine flour made of 
lentils, rye, and oatmeal together, is an admirable food for 
invahds. 

Ground-nuts, Aracliis hjjpogoea, N.O. Leguminosoe. A plant 
growing in warm countries, as South France, South America, 
China, etc., which bears subterranean pods containing two or four 
seeds the size of a hazel-nut; sometimes called the earth-almond. 
The root resembles liquorice, and is sometimes sold for it. The 
nuts form a highly nutritious article of food, which, according to 
Corenwinder,^ contains: Water, 6*76 per cent. ; oil, 51-75; nitro- 
genous matters, 21-80; non-nitrogenous, including starch, 17 66; 
salts, 2-03 (including phosphoric acid, 0-64; potassium, magnesium 
and chlorine, 1-39 per cent.). 

Ground-nut is a name also applied to Ajnos tuberosa, another 
leguminous plant, having a tuberous root of pleasant taste ; 
while the name of earth-nut is applied to the umbelliferous 
plants Bunium flexuos^im et bulbocastamini, which grow in the 
woods of Britain, and have a tuber or nut of about the size of a 
chestnut, which has a sweet and farinaceous taste. They grow 
at the end of a slender root about 4 or 6 inches below the surface. 
These are all used like potatoes. 

Mushrooms belong to the N.O. Hymenomycetes, subclass Basi- 
diomycetes, of the class Fungi. The common mushroom, and its 
cultivated variety, is the Arjaricus cavipestris, found in pastures and 
open spaces. They are used as a vegetable, and to make ketchup 
and sauce. Other good species are A. georgii and A. jjrimuhis, 
the latter being regarded by connoisseurs as the most delicious. 
The young mushroom consists of a small round spherical button 
of a white or fawn colour fixed on a solid stalk. As it grows the 
head expands, and the under surface changes colour with its 
expansion, being at first pink, but gradually changing to a liver, 
dark brown, or black colour. Their flesh is white and of compact 
and brittle texture. A fresh, tender mushroom is easy of digestion, 
tasty, appetizing, of delicious flavour and odour, and an excellent 
adjunct to other foods ; but not highly nutritious, or to be com- 
pared in value with essential foods like milk or eggs. 

Kohlransch^ gave the following composition of various edible 
fungi : 



VEGETABLES 



205 



Name. 


In 100 


Parts of 


3RIED Substance. 


In 100 Parts of Ash. 


















Un fer- 








Phos- 




Protein. 


mentable 


Mannite. 


Fat. 


Potash. 


phoric 






Sugar. 








Acid. 


Agaricus campestris 


20-63 


7 13 


4-91 


1-75 


50-71 


15-43 


Cantharellus cibarius 


10-68 


— 


23-43 


1-38 


48-75 


31-32 


Boletus edulis 


22-82 


— 


5-14 


1-98 


50-95 


20-12 


Clavar ia flavia 


24-43 


— 


4-81 


12-13 


51-47 


35-07 


Tuber cibarium 


36-32 


— 


— 


2-48 


55-97 


.30-85 


Helvella csculenta ... 


26-31 


— 


— 


2-3 


— 


— 


Morchella esculenta 


35-18 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Morchella conica 


29-64 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 



The large proportion of nitrogenous substances in mushrooms 
and other edible fungi suggested the name of vegetable beefsteak 
for them, but Mendel has shown that they only resemble beef in 
the proportion of water they contain. According to him, only one- 
half of the nitrogenous material in them is available for nutri- 
ment, the proteid substances being small in amount — about 
2-5 per cent. Mendel,i^ however, agrees with other analysts 
that they are rich in carbohydrate food and potash salts, but 
that the name of vegetable beef-steak is inapplicable to them, 
that they are of little more value than other vegetables, and that 
as proteid-providers or flesh-formers they are not comparable with 
peas and beans. ^^ 

Chanterelle {Cantharellus, cihariiis) is one of the best edible 
fungi of France and Southern Europe. It is allied to Agaricus 
campestris, and has a rich yellow colour and fruity smell. 

Boletus {Boletus edulis) is an extensive genus of fungi found in 
meadows and woods, especially pine-woods. The cap contains i- 
much carbohydrate material (mannitol, 3-97 per cent. ; treha- 
lose, 4-06 ; and glucose, 0-37) and a small amount of proteid. 
Several species are eaten on the Continent. 

Fistulina hejmtica is a fungus allied to Boletus, which grows 
on oak, ash, beech, and other trees. It is eaten in many places. 
When broiled it furnishes its own sauce, and is scarcely dis- 
tinguishable from meat, and has been called the ' beef-steak 
fungus.' 

Other edible fungi are : The Agaricus ulmaris, which grows on 
elm-trees ; the A. ostrealis, or oyster mushroom, which has a 



206 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

lateral stem, and is perfectly wholesome when gathered and 
cooked young ; the A. gamlosus, or St. George's mushroom, which 
grows in pastures in May and June ; the fairy-ring champignon, 
or Morasmms orichdes, a delicious fungus growing in rings in 
pastures ; the Cojirhnns comatus, or maned mushroom, which 
grows by the roadside and in other places — when young and 
cylindrical, and having white or pinkish gills — -is highly com- 
mended ; the Lactuarius deliciosus, or milky agaric (which 
assumes a livid green when bruised or broken, and whose juice 
is saffron coloured, but becomes greenish on exposure to the air), 
is delicious ; and Lycoperdon gigante7C7n, or the puff-ball, which 
grows in pastures or hedge-banks in fields, is edible when young 
and juicy, but old ones are tough and leathery. 

Care must be taken in the selection of mushrooms found growing 
wild, as many unfortunate accidents have occurred through the 
consumption of poisonous varieties. Cooks have various ways 
of testing their innocence. Thus, a silver spoon or fork used 
to turn them during cooking is not affected by edible fungi, but 
the acrid juice of poisonous ones will blacken or corrode the 
metal. Another method used by the cook is to sprinkle the 
under surface of the fungi with salt before cooking them. The 
salt abstracts some of the juice, which colours it yellow or red 
if they are poisonous, but only turns it dark or black if they are 
innocent and edible. 

Poisonous mushrooms, among which are Agaricus nmscarius 
and Lactuarius torminosus, may, however, usually be known by 
their appearance, taste, and the situation in which they have grown : 
(a) Their colour is pale yellow, sulphur, bright red, blood red, or 
greenish, or they turn blue or moist when cut ; their cap ov jnleiis 
may be warty, (b) They have a bitter, burning, astringent, or 
otherwise disagreeable taste and unpleasant odour, (c) They 
are found in woods or moist, marshy places, in caves, under- 
ground passages, on refuse or stumps of trees. Species which 
are perfectly harmless when grown in pasture-land may become 
exceedingly poisonous if they grow near decomposing animal 
or vegetable substances or stagnant water. Many fungi are eaten 
all over the world with impunity ; but some are eaten safely in 
France which^are considered poisonous in England, and others 
eaten in Bussia and Prussia are never eaten in France. All 



VEGETABLES 207 

kinds are poisonous to some people, but others are doubtful. One 
person may eat them with impunity, but others may not. The 
smallest piece will occasion violent poisonous symptoms in a 
person of peculiar idiosyncrasy. It is quite true that freshness 
and cooking influence their toxicity. They contain a principle 
which is more or less dissipated by heat, and is partly removed 
by peeling and washing them in boiling water or vinegar. They 
should never be eaten except they be fresh. A dish of mush- 
rooms may be quite innocent if eaten as soon as they are cooked ; 
but if they be eaten four or six hours afterwards poisonous 
symptoms may follow, owing to the development of ptomaines 
by bacterial action. Harnack^^ says they contain two active in- 
gredients : one is Muscarin (C^H^gNOo), which is the active volatile 
principle largely dissipated by cooking. It causes irritant symp- 
toms, such as pain, vomiting, and purging. A small quantity of 
muscarin introduced into the circulation or applied directly to 
the heart causes the cardiac action to become slow and feeble, 
and will stop it if the dose be sufticient. The other principle is 
an alkaloid called amanitine (C5HJ3NO3), which causes narcotic 
symptoms, as headache, giddiness, confusion of the mind, illu- 
sions, delirium, or convulsions. The same fungus has been 
known to cause irritant symptoms in one person and narcotic 
ones in another, and a combination of the two in a third. If the 
sufferer is not relieved by the removal of the fungus by free 
purging and vomiting, or by giving anodynes and stimulants, 
death may take place in two or three days. But if it is remem- 
bered that edible mushrooms are found in closely-fed pastures, 
and seldom in woods, there will be less danger of getting the 
poisonous ones. 

The Morel {Morchella esculeuta), subclass Ascomycetes 
(Fungi), has a hollow stalk and roundish or conical cap or 
inleus, somewhat pitted. There are several varieties ; the common 
morel grows plentifully in some parts of Britain, but they are 
mostly imported from Germany. They are used to flavour 
gravies or as an accompaniment to other dishes, and may be 
made into ketchup. They contain 3-4 per cent, of proteid, are 
rich in potash salts and phosphates, and are of about the same 
nutritive value as mushrooms. 

The Truffle {Tuber cibarium, cestivum et brumale), subclass 



208 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Ascomycetes (Fungi). There are black, red, and white varieties, 
the black being in highest repute, and are much used for seasoning 
gravy and soup and for garnishing dishes. They contain a large 
percentage of nitrogenous material — 8-9 per cent. — and, like mush- 
rooms, have been esteemed to approach animal food in their 
nature, especially as they are stimulating and heating. They 
are light and elastic, and have an agreeable perfume, which is 
lost by keeping. They should only be partaken of in moderation, 
as their wholesomeness is doubtful, and persons with a weak 
stomach digest them with difficulty. 

Many species of Algse, which are composed almost entirely of 
cellular tissue, are edible and nutritious, as dulse and carrageen. 
Dulse is Bhodomenia jyalmata, a seaweed largely used for soup 
and jelly in Eastern countries. One species furnishes the agar- 
agar of China. Carrageen, also called Irish moss, is a seaweed on 
various coasts. It is dried for making soup and jelly, and has 
been made into bread for diabetes. 



SALADS AND PICKLES. 

Salads are composed of raw vegetables, many kinds being 
mingled together and dressed with condiments, such as vinegar, 
salad oil, and spices. Salads are valuable as food mainly 
for the freshness of the vegetables composing them, for their 
juices, containing valuable salts, and the iron in connection 
with the chlorophyll. They are cooling, appetizing, and anti- 
scorbutic. They sometimes cause indigestion, because of the 
large quantity of indigestible cellulose in them, and many people 
require the addition of vinegar or other condiment to aid their 
digestion. The bulk of salads consists of lettuce, to which is 
added tomatoes, onions, endive, radishes, cresses, cucumber, beet- 
root, etc. Most of the Crucifer^ contain allyl sulphide, which is 
specially abundant, however, in garlic. 

Pickles consist of onions, cauliflower, red or white cabbage, 
cucumber, French beans, or other vegetables preserved with 
vinegar and spices. Like all vegetables, they are antiscorbutic, 
but many of them are hard of digestion, and without the help of 
good mastication and the stimulation of the stomach by the com- 
bined aromatic spices they might be quite indigestible. Onions 



VEGETx\BLES 209 

have already been considered. Cabbage has also had a share of 
attention. The variety most used for pickle is red cabbage, but 
white cabbage should not be despised at a time when salads are 
scarce. The crisp v^hiteheart cabbage, finely cut into sbreds and 
mingled with other ingredients, will supply a salad throughout 
the winter when other materials are scarce. Sauer-kraut is a 
preparation of cal)bage-leaves, subjected to pressure and allowed 
to ferment. Beet-root is also a very agreeable salad or pickle ; 
but when eaten very freely it is said to be injurious to the 
stomach. 

Celery is the uml)elliferous plant Apiimi graveolens, which 
grows wild in damp and marshy places. It has, however, been 
extensively cultivated, and careful selection and natural develop- 
ment have produced several edible varieties. The stems or leaf- 
stalks are readily l^lanched by covering them with earth, when 
they become mild and crisp, and form a most useful and whole- 
some salad. It is also stewed, especially the turnip - rooted 
variety, as a vegetable to be eaten with white sauce and meat. 
The entire plant, including the seeds, may be used freely to flavour 
stews and soup. It is stimulant, carminative, nervine, aphro- 
disiac, and diuretic, and has been especially recommended for 
persons suffering from rheumatism. The odoriferous principles of 
the plant are sedanolide and an anhydride of sedanonic acid 
contained in the oil of celery. ^"^ 

Cardoon (Cynara cardunculus) much resembles artichokes, and 
belongs to the same species. The stem and leaves, like celery, 
are blanched and rendered mild and crisp by banking with earth. 
It is eaten as a salad or vegetable, and to flavour soup, in all 
the countries along the Mediterranean. 

Endive, Cichorium endivia, N.O. Compositae ; when eaten 
as a salad, it is good for the liver, indigestion, and similar 
complaints. 

Cresses: Nasturtium, N.O. Cruciferie. There are two or three 
British species, of which water-cress {Nasturtium officinale) is the 
most important. It grows in rivulets, clear ponds, and ditches, 
and is extensively cultivated. The leaves have a moderately 
pungent taste, but are greatly esteemed as salad for their valuable 
antiscorbutic properties. Nastitrtuim is the popular name for 
Tropceoluvi majus, or Indian cress, an annual grown in gardens 

14 



'ilO FOOD AND HYGIENE 

chiefly for its flowers. Like water-cress, the leaves have a pungent 
taste, and are used for salad. The fruit is also used for salad, 
picklesj and as a substitute for capers. Other cresses are 
Senebieraj Lepidium, and pennycress or Thlaspi, all cruciferous 
plants, which are valuable antiscorbutic salads. Many of these 
contain allyl sulphide, and the nasturtium contains an oil which 
consists of 85 per cent, of benzyl thiocarbamide.^^ 

Capers, the buds of Capparis spinosa, the caper-bush, N.O. 
Capparidacea3. They are much used in salads, sauces, and 
pickles, and also very agreeable as an accompaniment of l^oiled 
mutton. The plant is cultivated largely in France and Italy, 
where capers are of commercial value. It also grows wild 
on old walls, in the fissures of rocks, etc., in countries 
bordering on the Mediterranean. The fresh buds are gathered 
every morning before the flowers expand, and are pickled in 
vinegar. The flower-buds of marsh-marigold and fruit of tro- 
peeolum are sometimes pickled and used as a substitute for 
capers. 

Dandelion : The young and tender leaves of Taraxacum officinale, 
N.O. Compositic, are used as a salad, and are highly prized 
by some people. They are sometimes mixed with the leaves 
of sorrel {Bninex acetelosa, N.O. Polygonacese), and the same 
two leaves, cooked together like spinach, form an agreeable 
accompaniment to pork, veal, or duck. They are stomachic, 
mildly laxative, and indirectly increase the action of the liver and 
kidneys. Sorrel contains much free acid, especially oxalic acid, 
and oxalates of calcium and potassium, which are prejudicial to 
persons with gout, gravel, or stone. 

Lettuce, Lactuca saliva, N.O. ComposittE ; several varieties and 
above fifty species are grown, of which cos lettuce and cabbage 
lettuce are the best. It is a cooling summer vegetable, chiefly 
valued for the juice and salts contained in it, which render it one 
of our most highly esteemed salads. The young plant contains 
an abundance of milky and pellucid juice, which is bland and 
almost tasteless. That of the mature plant is bitter and astrin- 
gent, and has undoubted anodyne and soporific qualities, due to 
lactucic acid. This is an alkaloid in the form of flat needles, 
which holds a place between hyoscyamus and opium, but has 
not so powerful an eftect as either of those drugs. It is to 



VEGETABLES 211 

this alkaloid that the juice of the lettuce owes its sedative effect, 
which renders it useful for soothing the cough in consumption 
and chronic bronchitis, and to induce sleep where only a mild 
soporific is required. As a vegetable it is chiefly cooling and 
antiscorbutic. 

Cucumber, Cucumis saliva, N.O. Cucurbitaceae ; extensively 
cultivated, and highly prized as a salad. The young, immature 
fruit are called gherkins, and are used for pickle. Cucumbers 
are neither nutritive nor very digestible ; but they contain an 
abundance of fluids and vegetable salts, and are cooling and 
refreshing. 

Radish., Raphanus sativus, N.O. Cruciferae; several varieties are 
eaten as a salad. Some have a fine flavour, and are tender and 
crisp when young ; others contain much fibrous material, which 
makes them hard to digest. They are somewhat stimulating to 
the stomach, promoting a flow of saliva and gastric juice, and by 
their pungency and warmth encourage appetite. 

Samphire or Crithmum, also called sea-fennel, N.O. Umbelli- 
ferse ; grows on rocks at the seashore ; has a spicy aromatic 
flavour. Soaked in vinegar it makes an admirable pickle. 

References: ^ Watts' 'Diet. Chem.' ^ Compt. Itenclus, 1897, 125. ^ Loc. 
cit. 119. * Ibid., 1898, 127. ° Dranheudortf's ' Plant Aualysis. ' '^ Jour. Amcr. 
Chem. Soc, xx., 348. ' Blyth's 'Foods.' » 'Year-book of Pharmacy,' 1874, 
35. 9 Ibid., 1878, 371. ^^ Am. Jour. PhijsiuL, 1878, i., 225." " The 
Lancet, March 12, 1902. ^^ Bourquelot, Jour. Chem. Soc, April, 1902. ^'^ ' Year- 
book of Pharmacy,' 1877, 142. ^^ Ciamiciau, Jour. Chem. Soc, Abstracts, 1897, 
483. ^^ Gademer, Archiv dcr Pharm., ccxxxviii.. 111. ^*^ Mitchell Briice's 
'Materia Medica.' 



CHAPTER XV 
CONDI MEXTS AND SPICES 

The proper use of condiments and spices is an important 
acquisition of the cook, for they are used largely in culinary 
art. Spices and condiments of almost every name contain 
aromatic oils and substances of extremely complex and variable 
composition, to which their properties are due. Opinions differ 
as to the propriety of their use, but the majority of medical men 
are in favour of their consumption in moderation, while they 

14—2 



212 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

urge against their abuse that they may cause chronic congestion 
of the liver from hyperaemia, and chronic catarrh of the stomach. 
It should be thoroughly understood that they are not foods in 
the proper sense, but adjuncts to food. When properly used 
they arouse a flagging appetite, excite the gastric mucous mem- 
brane to secretion, and stimulate the torpid movements of the 
stomach and bowels. These properties show them to be suited 
to the middle-aged, the aged, and the feeble ; hecdthy individuals 
with normal digestion do not need them, and they should most 
certainly he ivithheld from children. 

There are several groups which may to some extent be con- 
sidered together : Mustard, pepper, horse-radish, ginger, cayenne 
pepper, allspice ; cloves, nutmeg, mace, caraway, aniseed, cin- 
namon ; and mints, as thyme, sage, mint, marjoram ; parsley, 
fennel, juniper ; vinegar; sugar, honey. 

The aromatic substance to which their effect is chiefly due is, 
in many of them, closely allied to phenol on the one hand, and 
to the resins and balsams on the other. In thyme, mint, sage, 
we have a concrete body, or stearoptene, having a similar action 
to camphor and turpentine ; others owe their chief properties to 
volatile oil, as mustard and horse-radish, which is formed by the 
decomposition of another body under the influence of an enzyme. 

Most condiments and spices are excellent antiseptics, and by 
their aromatic and sedative action they subdue any irritability of 
the stomach and bowels, and the sensation of warmth which they 
create relieves dyspepsia, cramp, spasms, hiccough ; the same 
influence is extended over the intestinal tract, local secretions 
being promoted, flatus expelled or absorbed, the pain, colic, or 
the griping tendency of many of our vegetables prevented or 
relieved. By their presence in our food they excite the nerves of 
taste and smell and a sense of hunger, thereby directly increasing 
appetite and desire for and enjoyment of food ; saliva and gastric 
secretion are increased in quantity, the churning movement of 
the stomach promoted, and digestion in general assisted. 

Mustard. — -White mustard, Sinapis alba vel Brassica alba; 
black mustard, S. nigra vel B. nigra, N.O. Cruciferae. Mustard 
of commerce consists of white or black mustard seeds, or both 
together, ground to a fine powder, and passed through a sieve to 
remove husks ; the latter are then used to obtain the fixed oil by 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 213 

pressure. Mustard is a greenish-yellow powder, without smell 
when it is dry, but when moist having a pungent taste and pene- 
trating odour which is irritating to the nose and eyes. Mustard 
is the most familiar of all condiments ; it produces a sensation of 
warmth in the mouth and stomach, augments the digestive 
secretions by increasing the circulation in the bloodvessels of the 
alimentary canal, increases appetite and desire for food, and 
assists in its digestion. The general remarks on the condiments 
may be fully applied to this as typical of the group ; it is, in 
short, an appetizer and aid to digestion, especially when taken 
with meat or fatty food, and is a disinfectant and deodorizer of 
the alimentary canal. The essential oil of mustard is used as a 
liniment for lumbago, sciatica, rheumatism, or other complaint 
requiring a warm stimulating remedy ; and a mustard poultice, 
or sinapi&m, is very useful to check vomiting, relieve pain, and as 
a counter-irritant. 

Dr. HassalP found the composition of lilack and white mustard 
to be as follows : 

(a) Broivn Farina. — Water, 4-8 per cent. ; fixed oil, 35-7 ; 
myronic acid with potassium, 4'8; myrosin and albumin, 29-5 ; 
acrid salt, 3-5 ; cellulose, 16-8 ; ash, 4-7. 

(b) White Farina. — Water, 5-3 per cent. ; fixed oil, 37-7 ; 
myronic acid, nil; myrosin and albumin, 27*4 ; acrid salt, 10-9 ; 
cellulose, 16-5 ; ash, 4-11. 

The fixed oil is the same in both varieties, yellow, of mild 
taste, and consists of stearic, oleic, erucic, sinapolic, and behinic 
acids in combination with a glyceryl radicle, and varies from 
20 to 25 or even 35 per cent. The essential or volatile oil does 
not exist ready made in mustard, but is generated when the meal 
is moistened under the influence of myrosin, which is an enzyme 
similar to emulsin in almonds, and occurs in both kinds of 
mustard. 

The active principle of black mustard is sinigrin, or potassium 
myronate (C^j^HjgKNSoOJ, which is soluble in water and warm 
alcohol, and crystallizes in rhombic prisms. The combination of 
this substance with water and myrosin results in the production 
of glucose, potassium acid sulphate, an alkaloid sinapine sulpho- 
cyanate (CigHo^NO^CNS), and a volatile oil which is allyl isosul- 
phocyanate (C3H-N:CS). 



214 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The active principle of white mustard is sinalbin, a glucoside 

(CgoH^^N^SoOjg), which, under the influence of myrosin and 

moisture, develops into glucose and the same alkaloid as in 

the black variety, also sinapine sulphate (CjjjHo-NSOy), and an 

essential or volatile oil bearing the name- of ortho-hydroxyl-benzyl 

/OTT 
sulphocyanate C^H^c prr -ntq. The volatile oils are almost 

colourless, pale yellow fluids, readily soluble in ether and alcohol, 
but sparingly soluble in water. 

The most active mustard is prepared from a mixture of black 
and white seeds, because what is deficient in one is in excess in 
the other kind, and a perfect mustard containing the greatest 
amount of the active essential oil is thus obtained. Table 
mustard is adulterated with many things, with the purpose of 
diluting the mustard or modifying its character. Starch, wheat 
flour, fine oatmeal, pea flour, linseed meal, rape seed, and some- 
times plaster of Paris and clay, have been used as diluents ; 
turmeric, gamboge, ochre, and aniline colours or methyl orange, 
to give a yellow colour ; horse-radish, ginger, cayenne or other 
pepper, to give pungency and heat to the mixture ; and malt 
flour has been added with the view of mixing in it a diastatic 
ferment as a digestant of the carbohydrates. 

HoKSE-EADisH, CocJilcaria armoracia, N.O. Cruciferae, contains 
a volatile oil or sulphocyanate of butyl (C^HyCNS), allied to that of 
mustard, and, like it, is only developed by the decomposition of a 
more complex body by the influence of an enzyme existing in the 
root ready for action. Horse-radish has a pungent odour and 
warm taste ; it is highly stimulating to the alimentary functions ; 
promotes appetite and salivation, increases gastric secretion 
and movements, and is a carminative and antiseptic all along 
the canal. The sauce is a valuable aid to the digestion of meat 
and other rich food. Containing a large proportion of sulphur and 
valuable salts, it has excellent antiscorbutic properties, and is 
useful in the treatment of atonic dyspepsia, and as a stimulant 
in general debility, chronic rheumatism, sciatica, nervous diseases, 
and is even of value in dropsical conditions. 

Peppee. — The dried immature fruit of one of the pepperworts, 
N.O. Piperaceae. The species are numerous, grow in the tropics, 
and are of commercial value. 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 215 

Black Pepper is the dried unripe berry of Pilfer nigrum, largely 
imported from Molucca, Borneo, Sumatra, and Java, and bears 
various commercial names. These kinds vary in quality, 
Malabar being the best and dearest. Household pepper mostly 
consists of equal quantities of Malabar to give flavour, Penang 
to give strength, and Sumatra berries to give colour, ^ mixed, and 
ground in a mill. The berries or drupes grow in clusters of 
twenty to fifty, on a plant 8 to 12 feet high; they are smooth, 
and the colour is first green and then bright red ; they are pulled 
by hand before they are ripe, and become black, shrivelled, and 
wrinkled, by drying in the sun. The differences between the 
berries from various districts are recognisable by those who deal 
in them when seen separately, but if they are mixed together it 
is almost impossible to separate and name them correctly. 

White Pepper is the ripe fruit of the same plant, and owes its 
colour to its treatment. The finest berries are used ; they are 
soaked in water to loosen the outer rind, or pericarp, which is 
then rubbed off, and the berries are afterwards blanched and 
dried in the sun. By the removal of the pericarp white pepper 
is milder than black, but otherwise possesses the same con- 
stituents and properties. 

Pepper has a pungent, aromatic odour and taste ; it contains 
5 to 9 per cent, of piperine, about 1 per cent, of volatile oil, an 
acrid resin, albumin, starch, gum, and salts. Piperine Is a 
crystalline alkaloid (C^-Hj^NOg) which yields piperidin and piperic 
acid ; the proportion varies in different species. It is contained 
in most of the pepperworts, black pepper, long pepper, cubebs, 
and allspice. It can be obtained, and its percentage ascertained, 
by mixing finely-powdered pepper with twice as much slaked lime, 
making it into a paste with water, and boiling it for fifteen minutes. 
It is then evaporated to dryness on a water-bath, the residue 
powdered and exhausted with ether, from which the inperine is 
obtained by evaporating the ether, washing with alcohol, and 
crystallizing. 

Pepper is adulterated with various substances, as horse-radish, 
mustard, chillies, and other spices, and also with other sub- 
stances which contain no piperin. J. W. Gladhill^ gives the 
following analysis of commercial peppers ; 



216 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 





Ash. 


Ethereal 

Extract. 


Piperine. 


Oleo-resin. 


Black : 










Sintjapore ... 


3-5-4-5 


8-76- 9-76 


6-58-7-68 


108-2-6 


Tellicherry 




3-8-4-8 


7-26- 8-85 


5-91-6-82 


0-70-2-8 


Anij)iiy 




4-7-4-8 


9-47- 9-65 


6-75-7-50 


1-95-2-72 


Tranj,^ 




.3 -8-3 -9 


8-44- 8-83 


5-12-5-61 


3-22-3-32 


Lienbarg 




3 •6-4-0 


8-70- 9-48 


5-98-6-59 


2-20-3-20 


Lampoiig 




5 -0-5 -5 


8-76-10-61 


7-00-8-30 


1-16-2-30 


Sumatra W.C 




4 -0-4 -3 


9-22- 9-28 


6-68-7-00 


2-28-2-54 


Acheen 




4 -0-4 -7 


9-20-10-10 


7-10-7-96 


2 -10--/ -50 


IVhite : 










Coriander 


■8-1-0 


7-90-11-68 


6-81-9-00 


1-06-2-68 


Singapore 


l'0-l-2 


8-20- 8-78 


6-78-7-26 


1-00-1-67 


Penang 


21-2-8 


6-80- 7-20 


5-74-6-76 


0-44-1-30 


Decorticated 


0-8-1-9 


6-60- 7-64 


6-25-7-64 


0-24-1-39 


Hulls, for adulteration 


7-0-1-9 


5-00- 8-93 


none 


5-00-8-93 



Long Pepper is Piper lonr/icrn, a native of Bengal, Malabar, and 
Java, whence it is imported. The fruit is gathered while green 
and dried in the sun. Other kinds of pepper are allspice or 
pimento, and cubebs, or Piper cuheha. 

The whole family of Pepperworts have an aromatic, pungent, 
hot taste in proportion to the amount of piperine and volatile 
oil contained in them, which pervades the entire plant, but is 
especially abundant in the fruit. They are aromatic stimulants 
which act upon the salivary and gastric glands and encourage a 
free secretion by them, and aid digestion in the same way as 
other condiments. They are useful carminatives, and were also 
used formerly in feverish conditions, especially malaria. The 
active ingredients are excreted l)y the kidneys, and in passing out 
of the body they stimulate the mucous membrane of the urinary 
tract and disinfect it.^ They are attributed with a similar influence 
over the mucous meinbrane and bloodvessels of the lower bowel, 
and they are used frequently in the treatment of haemorrhoids, 
anal fissure, and similar ailments. 

Cayenne Pepper, the powdered fruit or pods of various species 
of Capsicum, N.O. Solanaceae. The fruit varies in size in different 
varieties, from a small berry or pod to large berries or pods as 
big as a plum. Capsicum annum bears the fruit called chillies ; 
C. baccatum is the berry- bearing capbipum. or bird -pepper; 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 217 

C. fructosuvi, or goat-pepper, is much hotter than the others ; 
C. grossum, or bell-pepper, is an East Indian species with large 
capsules. They are pickled entire, and the powder or pepper is 
used for sauce, curry, and as pepper, an ingredient of soup and 
highly-seasoned animal or vegetable dishes. 

The pepper contains capsicine, a volatile alkaloid soluble in 
alcohol ; capsaicin, an acrid substance ; an oleo-resin, and some 
fatty matter.^ It is adulterated with horse-radish, turmeric, 
red ochre, brick-dust, and other matters. In a reasonably 
small quantity the pepper is a grateful stimulant and carmina- 
tive, of especial value to alcoholic subjects ; it is especially used 
by residents of hot climates, and is of value to arouse the 
appetite, dispel flatulence, and relieve dyspeptic symptoms 
generally. 

Cloves are the dried flower-buds of Eugenia caryophyllus, N.O. 
MyrtaceiB, which are grown in and imported from the Moluccas. 
The plant abounds in a volatile oil — oil of cloves — having the 
pungent, aromatic taste and odour for which the fiower-buds are 
so highly prized. It contains eugenol, furfurol, amyl ketone, 
methyl benzoate, and methyl alcohol, the eugenol being the most 
abundant and most important ingredient." 

Cloves form a type of the aromatic spices used in culinary art. 
Their value depends entirely upon the volatile oil. When taken 
in our food, they excite the nerves of taste and smell and en- 
courage appetite and relish for food. The secretion of the diges- 
tive fluids is increased by them, whereby they aid digestion, and 
a sensation of warmth is produced in the abdomen, to the relief 
of flatulence, cramp, spasms, and hiccough, and they relieve or 
prevent griping induced by food or other means. Everywhere 
they disinfect the alimentary canal. The active principles of 
cloves, cinnamon, and their allies, enter the blood, and are 
excreted by the lungs, kidneys, and skin, in passing through 
which they stimulate and disinfect them. By their stimulation 
of the visceral circulation and lymphatic glands they encourage 
leucocytosis, and are therefore a valuable s*;imulant to the forma- 
tion of white blood cells. Upon the nervous system they are 
both stimulating and sedative, increasing thereby the vigour of 
the heart, relieving pains around it and palpitation, and pre- 
venting or removing nervous depression, lowness of spirits, and 



218 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

hysteria.* They should have a wide range of application in 
dietetics. 

Cinnamon is the dried inner bark of Cinn(imomum zeylanicum, 
N,0. Lauraceae, obtained from the shoots of trees grown in 
Ceylon. It contains tannic acid, sugar, gum, and the official 
volatile oil. The oil contains cinnamic aldehyde 84 and eugenol 
3 per cent., besides phellandrene, methyl-amyl-ketone, pinene, 
cymene, cymol, and aldehydes.'* It is a favourite aromatic 
flavouring of foods, and, like cloves, is a disinfectant, aromatic 
carminative, and astringent. Used in food, it allays nausea, 
vomiting, flatulence, and diarrha3a, and is useful in gastric or 
intestinal catarrh, influenza and catarrh of the respiratory mucous 
membrane, chronic bronchitis, and phthisis, where its principal 
action is that of a pleasant disinfectant. 

Nutmeg and Mace. — Nutmeg is the dried seed of Myristica 
fragrans, N.O. Myristicaceae. Mace is the dried covering or net- 
like envelope which surrounds a nutmeg, and when fresh is a 
beautiful crimson colour. The growing nu*-meg is like a small 
pear. The fleshy part is yellowish-white externally and pure 
white internally, and is four or five lines thick. As it ripens the 
fruit opens longitudinally, showing the arillus or mace of lovely 
hue surrounding the nut. When ripe the nut drops out and the 
arillus withers. Though a native of the Isles of Banda, East 
Indies, it is grown throughout India, Sumatra, Brazil, and the 
West Indies. 

Nutmeg and mace contain 31 to 40 per cent, of fixed concrete 
oil, 8 or 9 of volatile oil, starch in variable amount, moisture 
1 to 5, and ash 5 per cent.^^' The volatile oil consists of a turpene, 
myristican and myristicol.^- The fixed oil is chiefly myristicin or 
myristic acid (Cj^H.,^Oo), a stearoptene or crystalline substance 
combined with glycerine to form trimyristicate of glyceryl. i- 

Their use and properties are similar to those of cloves and 
cinnamon {q-i'-). They are exceedingly useful in summer 
diarrhoea, in cramp, spasms, and flatulence, especially when due 
to hysteria. Nutmeg also has narcotic properties, and is useful 
in the insomnia and restlessness of delirium tremens. 

GiNGEB, the dried rhizome or root of Zingiber officinale, N.O. 
Zingiberacea3. It is prepared by washing and scraping, drying 
and bleaching. It contains an aromatic oil or oleo-resin, which 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 219 

is a complex mixture of hydrocarbons, together with cymene 
(C^qH^J, a terpene, aldehydes, and ethereal salts. It has a hot, 
pungent, aromatic taste and odour, and is a popular agent for 
flavouring pickles and other foods. The properties are similar 
to those of cloves and other allies, and, like them, it is useful in 
diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, atonic dyspepsia, and enfeebled 
states of the bowels. 

CuERY Powder is a mixture of the foregoing condiments. The 
following is a good example of its composition: Capsicum, 1-5 
parts ; ginger, 2 ; black pepper, 3 ; coriander, 2 ; cardamom, 0-5 ; 
cinnamon, 2 ; cloves, 1 ; turmeric, 12. Mix and keep in a bottle. 

Garlic, Allium sativimi, already mentioned with onions. It 
contains active principles similar to horse-radish, especially allyl 
sulphide [(C3H.)S], which render it a valuable general stimulant, 
tonic to the stomach, and carminative ; it is useful for dyspepsia, 
spasmodic troubles, flatulence, hiccough, hysteria, and chronic 
catarrh ; it quickens the circulation, excites the nervous system, 
promotes expectoration, and in passing through the skin and 
kidneys its ingredients act upon them, and promote sweating and 
increase of urine. 

The Sweet-herbs are the mints (garden mint, spear-mint, 
and other species of Mentha) ; thyme (Thymus vulgaris), sweet 
marjoram (Origamcm marjorana vel exotica), sage (Salvia ver- 
henacea), basil (Calammtha arvensis), sweet basil {Ocymum 
hasilicum), and savory [Satureia hortensis et saturja montana), all 
of the N.O. Labiatte. 

Common Mint, garden mint, used largely for sauce and other 
culinary purposes. Has an oil which contains ^^ a stearoptene 
(C^qHoqO), also a liquid (Cj,)Hj^O) which is isomeric with carvol. 
Menthol, a similar crystalline stearoptene, and menthene, a 
terpene, can be obtained from oil of peppermint. 

Thyme contains an oil from which '^ are derived cymene or 
cymol (CjqHj^), thymene (Ci,)H^,.), and thymol (C^gH^J. Thymol 
is the most important, being a powerful intestinal disinfectant 
and carminative, somewhat resembling turpentine in its action. 
An extended analysis of oil of thyme by Labbe yielded the following 
composition : 15 per cent, of menthene, 21 cymene, 5 linalool, 
8 borneol, 17 of a hydrocarbon which difl'ers from pinene, and 
4 of a residue which contained a small amount of carvacrol.^^ 



220 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Basil, another aromatic herb much used in France, contains an 
oil which yields pinene, cineol, camphor, and methyl chavicol 
the latter also yielding anethol and anisinic acid.^*^ 

Marjoram is a peculiarly fragrant and aromatic herb used in 
cookery. It contains an oil which consists of turpinene, terpineol, 
small quantities of acetic and other acids. ^'' 

Savory contains an oil which consists of 50 per cent, of 
carvacrol, 20 per cent, of cymene, also a terpene and a phenol 
■which differ slightly from carvacrol. ^^ 

Sage, Salvia verhenacea vel officinalis, contains an oil con- 
sisting ^° of 40 per cent, salviol (Ci(,Hj,.0), 20 each of two 
hydrocarbons (Cj^H^;,), 10 of a camphor (C^jH^i^O), 10 of cedrene 
(C^-H^J, and a little cymene. This powerful oil is an antiseptic 
to the whole alimentary canal ; it is also astringent, and has 
stimulant and sudorific properties. Sage-tea has been valued as 
a domestic remedy for feverish colds, sore throats, quinsy, etc. 
Its value in culinary processes is that it is an antiseptic, and 
assists in the digestion of fat and luscious foods, as pork, duck, 
goose, of which it has long been an accompaniment. 

Bay - leaf, which is also used for flavouring, contains an oil 
whicli yields myrcene, a terpene, eugenol, chavicol, phellandrene, 
and citral.-^ 

The sweet-herbs are all used as flavouring agents in cooking 
and for sauces to animal food ; the most delicate being ' mint 
sauce ' as an accompaniment to lamb or mutton. They are all 
antiseptic, and are proper accompaniments of ' high ' or rich 
food. They have powerful soothing and carminative effects ; 
they likewise are diffusible stimulants, and strengthen the heart 
without quickening its beat. They act differently from the 
group of which cloves and cinnamon are a type ; for instead of 
dilating the vessels of the stomach and intestines, and thereby 
causing an agreeable sensation of warmth, their first effect is 
to contract the bloodvessels and produce a sensation of cold ; 
and their effect is in proportion to the coldness. The intestinal 
movements and absorption are checked to some extent, and 
glandular activity depressed ; nevertheless, they are powerful 
antiseptics, and they soothe griping and relieve colic and flatu- 
lence. An essence of sweet-herbs for soup can be made of : 
Thyme, 4 parts; winter savory, 4; sweet marjoram, 4; sweet 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 221 

basil, 4; lemon peel grated, 2; shalot, 2; cJery seeds, 1; and 
alcohol, 50. Bruise and macerate in the spirit for seven to ten 
days ; filter. 

Caraway Seeds, the fruit of Carmn carui, N.O. Ilmbelliferte. 
A very agreeable aromatic flavouring and carminative of pleasant 
taste and aromatic odour used in cookery. The properties are 
due to an essential oil which contains caruen (CjoH^g), a terpene, 
and carvol (CjoH^^O), isomeric with thymol.-^ They are stimulants 
and aromatics of the same type as cloves and nutmeg. 

Aniseeds, the fruit of Pimpinclla anisiim, N.O. Umbelliferae, 
have an essential oil, which is likewise obtainable from the fruit 
of star-anise, Illicium verum, N.O. Magnoliacese. It crystallizes 
at 50° to 59° F., and is 80 per cent, a stearoptene anethol 
(CjoHjoO) and 20 per cent, a terpene. The seeds are used in 
cookery, and owe their sweet taste and aromatic odour to the oil. 
They have similar properties to cloves, and they are soothing to 
mucous membranes generally ; hence the value of the oil in 
bronchial and laryngeal affections. 

Fennel, Fceniculum capillaceum, N.O. Umbelliferse, has an 
oil which contains fenchone, dextro-pinene, phellandrene, methyl 
chavicol, and anethol.-- Fennel is used green as a sauce for the 
heavier kinds of fish — e.g., salmon, mackerel. It promotes diges- 
tion in the stomach and bowels, and has the same properties as 
other aromatics. 

Parsley, Petroselinum sativum, N.O. Umbelliferse, contains 
apiin, a substance which is extracted by water, gelatinizes on 
boiling, dissolves in and crystallizes from alcohol. The seeds 
contain apiol and oil of parsley. The oil consists of a substance 
analogous to myristicin, and small quantities of apiolic acid, 
tetra-methyl-apional, and tri-methyl-gallic acid.-^ The properties 
of the plant are chiefly due to the oil. Apiol is said to pre- 
dominate in German, myristicin in French parsley. Its main use 
is as a sauce, but, like many other aromatics, it is scarcely eaten 
in sufficient quantity with food to produce its specific effects, 
unless it is taken persistently, when it may be useful for young 
girls with scanty menstruation and dysmenorrhoea, as a diuretic 
in kidney troubles, gravel or dysuria, and for malarial fevers or 
their subsequent eflects. 

Juniper, the berries of Juniperiis covimunis, N.O. Coniferae, is 



222 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

one of the flavourings used in the manufacture of gin. Donath^* 
gives the following analysis : Water, 29-44 per cent. ; organic 
acids, 3-01 ; volatile oil, 0-91 ; resins, 10-39 ; pectin, 0-73 ; 
juniperin, 037; albumin, 4-45; sugar, 29-65; cellulose, 15-83; 
mineral, 2-33. The acids are formic, acetic, malic, and oxalic, 
alone or in combination with bases. The resins are — one of 
a green colour which separates out of an ethereal solution, and 
one of a brown colour which separates from an alcoholic solution. 
The essential oil contains several hydrocarbons, and yields a 
white crystalline compound. It is volatile, and has a warm 
aromatic taste and characteristic odour ; it resembles turpentine 
in action, being absorbed into the blood and excreted by the 
kidneys, which it markedly stimulates ; it increases both the 
solids and water of the urine, and is thereby useful in dropsy due 
to heart or liver disease, and in some cases of Bright's disease 
(see ' Gin '). 

YiNEGAE, Acetum, is defined as an acid liquid prepared from 
a mixture of malted and unmalted grain by the acetous fermen- 
tation. The specific gravity = 1017 to 1-019, and it should con- 
tain about 5 per cent, of acetic acid (CgH^O^). This is malt vinegar. 
It is of decidedly brown colour, and has a distinct flavour and 
aroma. An analysis ^^ of four samples showed it to contain 
4-86 to 6-61 per cent, of acetic acid, 2-31 to 3-96 of total solids, 
0-34 to 0-55 of ash, 0-59 to 0-75 of albuminoids, and 0-05 to 0-09 of 
phosphoric acid. Many vinegars are made from beet-root, sugar, 
wood, rice, maize, and glucose, with just a little malt thrown in, 
and only by courtesy can be called malt vinegar. Such samples 
contain 3-5 to 58 per cent, of acetic acid, 0-10 to 2-9 of solids, 
0-04 to 0-43 of ash, 0.08 to 0-65 of albuminoids, and to 0-02 of 
phosphoric acid. The principal adulterations in vinegar are 
water, sulphuric acid, pyro-ligneous acid, excess of acetic acid, 
grains of paradise and chillies. Weak vinegar is brought up to 
strength by adding acetic acid, which is an adulteration, because 
the acetic acid in vinegar should arise from fermentation and not 
as a chemical product. The law allows 1 per 1,000 of sulphuric 
acid. The Society of Analysts adopted 3 per cent, as the minimum 
of acetic acid, by which they mean real acetic acid (CoH^Oo), and 
not acetic anhydride (C^H^Pg). The British Pharmacopoeia states 
that it should contain 5 4 per cent, of real acetic acid. In the 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 223 

United States 4-6 per cent, is the standard, in Germany 6, 
Austria 6, France 8 to 9, Belgium 5'8, Eussia 5. 

The acetous fermentation occurs from the action of Mycodcrma 
aceti in any saccharine fluid, the sugar being first iaverted and 
then converted to acetic acid. The fungus exists in the atmosphere, 
and readily gains access to the fluid. In the manufacture of 
vinegar some ' mother of vinegar,' which is a pure mass of the 
fungus, is added to the liquid, and the process is thereby hastened. 
A vat is used with perforated sides and lid, and the two discs are 
fitted into it. Between the latter are placed shavings of beech 
or other wood moistened with vinegar, in order that they may be 
coated with the fungus. The liquid containing nutriment for the 
fungus is poured over it, and slowly trickles through the shavings. 
The same liquid is poured through several times. It is kept at a 
temperature of 25° to 40° C, and attains an acidity of about 4 to 
6 per cent. 

White wine vinegar contains 6 or 7 per cent, of acetic acid, 
some cream of tartar, and an odour of the wine. It is a splendid 
condiment, and should not be used for pickling, as its distinctive 
character is then destroyed. It is usually made from wine con- 
taining less than 10 per cent, of alcohol. The Mycoderma aceti 
consumes the nitrogenous and mineral substances of the wine, and 
causes oxidation of the alcohol, whereby it is converted to acetic 
acid. There are many substitutes made from the juice of grapes, 
currants, gooseberries, or merely a mixture of acetic acid and 
malt vinegar or diluted acetic acid, which are not comparable to 
the real article.-" 

Other vinegars are made from beer, cidei', crab, tarragon, etc. 
Vinegar is used for many culinary purposes, especially for pickles, 
salads, and sauces, to which it adds its components, and aids in 
the general effect as an appetizer and aid to digestion. 

SuGAK, cane-sugar or saccharose (CjoH^oO^j) ; the ordinary 
sugar of commerce is a sweet granular substance, and one of the 
most nutritious and wholesome materials which the vegetable 
kingdom affords. Sugar was only known vaguely to the ancients 
of Greece and Eome. It was introduced into Europe in the time 
of the Crusades, and became common about the sixteenth century. 
It is scattered widely over the vegetable kingdom in small 
portions, but exists largely in the sugar-cane, varieties of bteL- 



224 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

root, parsnip, sorghum, the maple and birch trees. Loaf-sugar 
is chemically pure, and the most concentrated food known to 
commerce. It contains, besides sugar, a small percentage of 
sodium and potassium carbonates derived from the decomposition 
of the malates, oxalates, and citrates of the plant, and lime, 
magnesia, iron, and alumina. Raw sugar is often artificially 
coloured with Bismarck brown or acid yellow to give it the 
appearance of genuine Demerara or West Indian crystals. It is 
also mixed with glucose, sugar of milk, dextrin, starch, sand, 
plaster, chalk or clay, and flour. Insoluble matters can be removed 
by solution of the sugar and filtration, and recognised by micro- 
scopical examination ; the other materials are recognised by 
chemical tests. 

Cane-sugar was formerly chiefly obtained from the sugar-cane, 
Saccharum ojficinarum, N.O. Graminacea3, grown in the West 
Indies, Brazil, British Guiana, Java, and other places. In its 
manufacture the juice is expressed from the cane between the 
rollers of a mill or in a hydraulic press, and received into vessels 
in which it is boiled. Boiling concentrates the juice and destroys 
any deleterious contamination which may have entered it. Lime 
is added to neutralize any acidity, and also serves to separate 
gross impurities, which rise as a scum to the surface and are 
removed. The concentrated syrup is run off into large vessels to 
cool and crystallize, and a hole in the vessel aJlows the uncrystal- 
lizable treacle or molasses to drain away. What is left behind 
is the crystallized raw sugar, or muscavado. To make white or 
refined sugar, the raw material is dissolved in water and filtered 
through cotton bags and charcoal. It is then boiled afresh and 
poured into vessels in which it again crystallizes, and is now 
lump or loaf sugar. 

Maple-sugar is obtained from the sap of the maple-tree, Acer 
saccharinuvi, N.O. Sapindacete. It is made largely in Canada and 
America, in the spring of each year, the ascending sap being 
richest in sugar. The trees are tapped by boring holes in the 
trunk, and the sap is collected in vessels placed to receive it. 
It is boiled on the spot, concentrated, crystallized, and refined as 
before. An ordinary-sized maple will yield 15 to 30 gallons of 
sap, containing 1 to 2 per cent, of crystallizable sugar, and an 
uncrystallizable portion called maple-honey. 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 225 

Beet-sugar is obtained from Beta vulgaris, var. Altissima, the 
common beet-root, N.O. Chenopodiacege, which yields 12 to 
20 per cent, of sugar. It is also contained in parsnips and other 
roots. The manufacture of beet-sugar was begun during the 
French Eevolution, ' necessity being the mother of invention,' 
owing to the fact that cane-sugar could not be obtained from the 
British colonies because of the war. Since then beet-sugar has 
become an important article of commerce in France, Germany, 
Austria, and Eussia, its comparative cheapness having done 
much to drive cane-sugar out of the market. 

Sugar is an exceedingly valuable article of diet, almost never 
absent from our table in some form. It cannot be surpassed as 
a means of providing force or energy, but it is solely a carbo- 
hydrate food. Whatever is not immediately used for the purpose 
of supplying heat and energy to the body may be stored up as 
fat in the tissues thereof. Jam and preserve consist largely of 
sugar with the vegetable salts and acids of fruit, and are of great 
value for children to supply them with food which will be quickly 
absorbed and transformed into heat by oxidation, without further 
digestion and elaboration. An excess of sugar is no more good 
than an excess of any other article of diet. On the contrary, 
it causes thirst, and in many cases catarrh of the stomach. In 
the latter instance it is deleterious by promoting a free discharge 
of mucus from the gastric glands, which surrounds the particles 
of food and hinders digestion. The peptonization of food is conse- 
quently rendered difficult and delayed. Such is the effect of eating 
an excess of sugar in the form of sweetmeats and confectionery. 

Siveetmeats and confectionery consist chiefly of cane-sugar 
combined with various flavouring essences and ethers, and 
colouring matter. By careful heating, various colours, ranging 
from pure white to straw, fawn, brown, reddish, or black, can be 
given to sugar.-" Heated to about 400° F., it changes to caramel, 
which is used to give a brown colour of various shades ; other 
colours are due to agents mentioned below. Sweets may have 
a definite composition, as aniseed balls and peppermint lozenges, 
the latter consisting of sugar, albumin, and oil of peppermint. 
But a great many consist of sugar, boiled or otherwise, acidulated 
with citric or tartaric acid, and mixed with gum, glucose, traga- 
canth, gelatine, fatty or other matters, to give consistence to the 

15 



226 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

mass. Toffee consists of sugar and butter boiled together. Candy 
is simple sugar, coloured yellow, red, or white, and crystallized in 
a particular way. Marzipan^^ is made from 2 parts of moist 
pounded almonds and 1 part of sugar, and contains 50 per cent. 
of almond, 33-3 of sugar, and 16'7 of water. Chocolate consists of 
the powder of cacao beans duly prepared and combined with sugar 
and vanilla. Chocolate cream consists of chocolate, 8 ounces ; 
condensed milk, 1 tinf ul ; loaf-sugar, 80 ounces ; the white of two 
eggs and li ounces essence of vanilla made into a paste.--' 

Many coloured sweets are harmless, and owe their colour to 
innocent materials. Thus, red may be due to the juice of beet- 
root, currants, cherries, cochineal, or carmine ; blue to litmus, 
saffron-blue, or indigo; yellow to saffron, saff-flowers, marigold, 
or tui^meric ; green to a mixture of those which give blue and 
yellow colours ; black to Spanish juice or Chinese ink.^" But 
many of the colouring agents used are poisonous, especially those 
made from copper, arsenic, prussian blue, salts of zinc, or barium ; 
many aniline colours are used, especially those of the " azo " class, 
some of which are injurious — e.g., it has been proved by experi- 
ments on animals that picric acid, dinitro-cresol, and Martm's 
yellow among these are poisonous ; magenta, sulphonated-nitro 
colours, and most of the azo class, are not poisonous, but may 
cause vomiting, diarrhoea, and albuminuria.^^ Though there is 
evidence that most of the coal-tar products are not poisonous 
to the lower animals used for experiments, it is not safe to assume 
that they are entirely harmless to human beings. For instance, 
Weber found that oroline yellow (acid yellow), diluted as much 
as 1 in 16, will retard the action of pepsin in artificial digestion 
experiments ; and methyl orange, saffoline (acid red), and magenta, 
which are used for colouring sweets, seriously interfere with 
pancreatic digestion. s- 

Grape- sugar, also called dextrose and glucose (CgHj.,Og), is 
when pure a fine white powder consisting of six-sided crystals. 
In its impure state it is distributed throughout the vegetable 
kingdom, and enters largely into the composition of many fruits, 
where it is associated with levulose, as previously shown. It 
can be manufactured by the action of dilute mineral acids upon 
starch, cellulose, or cane-sugar, and is used in the manufacture 
of artificially-prepared foods, beer, vinegar, etc. 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 227 

L.EVULOSB, levuglucose, fructose, or fruit-sugar (C^Hj.,0,j), as an 
uncrystallizable sugar or syrup, accompanies dextrose in many 
fruits, and has the same formula. Laevulose, as a white powder 
prepared from inulin, is soluble in water and sweeter than 
cane-sugar, and is recommended for diabetics up to 1^ ounces 
a day. During its use none of it appears in the urine. When 
a solution of cane-sugar has a little mineral acid added to it, and 
is then warmed and allowed to stand, it becomes converted into 
dextrose and loevulose, and when evaporated the mixture is a 
brownish coloured mass called ' invert-sugar.' This material is 
manufactured in bulk, and sold for making jam, marmalade, and 
alcohol. 

Molasses, treacle, or golden syrup, is produced during the 
manufacture of cane-sugar, and is largely used as a dietetic 
article. Girrard gives the following analysis ■^■'' 

(a) Sugar-cane molasses : Water, 18-5 to 19-5 per cent. ; mineral 
matters, 2-3 to 2-6; cane-sugar, 34-2 to 34-6; glucose, 29-7 
to 32-8 ; organic and colouring matters, 11-6 to 14. The mineral 
matters are salts of potassium and sodium, with a little magnesia 
and lime, which have the effect of preventing the crystallization 
of the sugar. x\nother analysis showed treacle to contain — water, 
16-8 per cent.; cane-sugar, 44-8; glucose, 7-12; lasvulose, 5-8; 
ash, 8-21.3^ 

(b) Grolden syrup is frequently a manufactured article, and 
ought not to be regarded as treacle. A comparison of the follow- 
ing analysis with the former^'^ will show the difference : Moisture, 
22-74 per cent. ; cane-sugar, 11-30 ; maltose, 16-84 ; dextrose or 
glucose, 15-56; dextrin, 13-2; gallisin, 14-4; combined maltose, 
0-61 ; ash, 1-34. 

(c) Girrard's analysis of beet-root molasses shows it to contain — 
water, 18-10 per cent. ; mineral matter, 12-74, cane-sugar, 49-0; 
glucose, traces ; organic and colouring matter, 19-86. The small 
proportion of glucose reduces considerably the total proportion 
of carbohydrate, and makes it less nutritive than sugar-cane 
molasses. The excess of salts and organic matter also renders it 
somewhat unpalatable, and detracts from its value as a dietetic 
article. 

Honey is a saccharine material collected and stored by bees 
{Apis mellifica, genus Hymenoptera). A wasp of tropical America 

15—2 



228 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and an ant of Mexico, besides other insects, produce syrupy 
sugars called honey, which are scarcely comparable with the 
honey of commerce. Bee's honey is a viscid, transparent, 
yellowish-brown liquid, which gradually becomes more or less 
opaque and partly crystalline. It is of very sweet taste and 
characteristic odour, exceedingly nutritious, demulcent, and 
laxative. It contains about 75 per cent, of sugar, in which 
Iffivulose and dextrose are mingled in nearly equal parts, with 
some cane-sugar and mannite. It also contains a small propor- 
tion of alcohol, together with wax, pollen of flowers, alkaloidal 
principles, odorous matters from plants, and a little mineral 
matter. The laevulose is derived from cane-sugar by inversion or 
fermentation. Hoitsema^*^ gives the following composition of 
honey : Water, 8*3 to 17-8 per cent. ; ash, 0-13 to 0-34 ; pollen 
and wax, 0'02 to 0"46 ; reducing sugars, 71"2 to 74-5; sucrose, 
0-2 to 26. The honey-comb consists of beeswax ; but both honey 
and the comb have been adulterated, by glucose in the honey 
and paraffin wax moulded to imitate the comb. 

Mead is a fermented liquor prepared by dissolving honey in 
three times its bulk of boiling water, adding a small portion of 
ground-malt, with some spices for flavouring, and fermenting it 
with yeast. 

Refeuexces : ^ PJiaria. Jour., 3rd, iv., 669. ^ Sayre, Am. Jour. Fhnnn., 
1895,339-532. * Blyth's ' Foods.' * Am. Jour. Pharm., \90^, 111. ^ Brace's 
'Mat. Med.' ^ Ihid. '' Year-book of Pliaraiacy,' 1902, 59. » Bruce, loc. cit. 
»' Year-book of Pharmacy,' 1902, 57. ^" Fliarm. IVoch., xix., 150. "Watts' 
'Diet. Chem.' ^'- 'Year-liook of Pharmacy,' 1874. ^^ Attfield'a 'Chemistry.' 
" Watts, loc. cit. 1' Bull. Soc. Chini., xix., 1009. ^^ Arcliiv dcr Pharm., 1897, 
235, 176. ^'^ Biltz, Berl. dcr deutsch Chem.-Ges., xxxii. ,993. ^'^ Watts, loc cit. 
^^ Attfield, ibid. -" Pharm. Pundschau, xiii., 60. -' Bruce, loc. cit. ^~ ' Year- 
book of Pharmacy,' 1902, 101. '^^ Gazz. Ghim. Ital., xxx., 240. 24 jVc^g^ jahr. 
dcr Pharm., xL, 37. '^ Allen, the Analyst, 1893, xviii., 183. ^^ 'Year-book 
of Pharmacy,' 1897, 321. 27 Blyth, loc. cit. "'s Chem. Zeit., 1903 {Jo%ir. State 
Med., April, 1903). ^9 'Year-book of Pliarmacy,' 1895, 220. »« Blyth, ibid. 
«i Professor Smith, Jour. State Med., .January, 1902. ^- Ibid., 1902, 273. ^-^ Ibid., 
May, 1903. '''' The Analyst, 1897, xxii., 46. ^-s Xoc. cit., 28. =*« Zeit./iir Chim. 
Anal., xxxviii., 429. 



THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 229 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTI- 
TUTES 

The Cereals are varieties of wheat, rye, barley, oats, rice, and 
maize, whose value as food is in the order mentioned. This is 
the most important class of foodstuffs provided by the vegetable 
kingdom, as they form ' the staff of life ' for many miUions of 
people in every quarter of the globe. So large a part do they fulfil 
in domestic preparations that it is almost safe to say that if the 
entire crop of cereals failed for one year nearly 90 per cent, of 
the inhabitants of the earth would die. What have we that 
adequately takes their place ? A few nuts and beans, the fecula 
derived from various roots and trees, as arrowroot, sago, tapioca, 
poi ; potatoes, yams, artichokes, parsnips, carrots ; and the fruit 
of a few trees, as bananas, bread-fruit, dates, figs, and olives. 
The cereals are therefore justly esteemed princeps facile in all 
considerations of food. 

Wheat is a plant and seed of Triticum, N.O. Graminaceae, by 
far the most important kind of grain grown in Europe and all 
climates of the temperate zones of the earth. There are many 
varieties, of which Tritmom hybernum, the winter or unbearded 
wheat ; T. cestiimm, the summer or bearded wheat ; and 
T. spelta, German wheat or spelt, are the permanent and prin- 
cipal varieties. Wheat grows readily in the temperate regions, 
of which it is for the most part a native, and will grow in almost 
any region of the earth. The soil best adapted for wheat is a 
heavy loam or rich clay, and the differences in the grain arise 
mainly from the soil and mode of cultivation. Winter wheat is 
sown in the autumn of one year and gathered the next, but summer 
wheat is sown in the spring of the year in which it is garnered. 
The names red and tvhite refer to the colour of the grain. Red 
wheat is a hardy variety, but the yield is less and the quality 
poorer than that of white. Spelt is not of the same value as 
either summer or winter wheat, but it will grow in more 
elevated regions and on poorer soil. The United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland is dependent very largely upon foreign 



230 , FOOD AND HYGIENE 

sources for its wheat-supply, as shown by the Navy League 
Journal, March, 1903, which gives the consumption of this grain 
in 1901 as 30 milhon quarters, of which only 6-56 millions 
quarters were home-grown, 15-63 were from the United States 
of America, 2 millions from Canada, 2-43 from Australia, 1-95 
from South America, and 1-43 millions from other countries, 
including 780,374 quarters from India and 602,804 quarters 
from Eussia.* 

Composition. — Wheat grain has been analysed by many 
chemists, who give slightly different reports, inasmuch as all 
samples vary in quality. Konigi gives the following average of 
250 analyses : Water, 13*56 per cent. ; nitrogenous matters, 
1242; fat, 1-70; sugar, 1-44 ; -dextrin and gum, 2-38; starch, 
68-07; fibre, 2-66; ash, 1-97. The ashes contain the following 
in 1,000 parts of wheat— viz., 19-7 parts of ashes, consisting of 
Potash, 6-14 per cent. ; soda, 0-44 ; lime, 0-66 ; magnesium, 236 
ferric oxide, 0-26 ; phosphoric acid, 9-26 ; sulphuric acid, 0-07 
silica, 42 ; chlorine, 0-04. Phosphate of potash is in the largest 
proportion ; then follow phosphates of magnesia and lime. Soda 
is in small amount, but the proportion of iron is good. As a 
typical food, wheat is deficient in salts and fat, and the propor- 
tion of nitrogenous material, though fairly high, is not sufficient 
to make wheaten bread a perfect food. 

The nitrogenous proximate principles form a complex body 
called gluten, which can be obtained from wheat by kneading 
the flour into a paste with water, then washing out all the starch 
by a thin stream of water. Gluten is a yellowish-gray, elastic, 
and very adhesive mass, which holds the meal together when 
it is made into bread. It consists of the following substances :'-^ 
Gliadin, glutenin, edestin (a globulin), leucosine an albumose, and 
a proteose. Gluten is a term used to cover all the proteids. Best 
wheat contains 10 to 14 per cent., inferior only 8 or 9, wheat 
flour 8 to 12. Kenwood states that flour containing less than 
8 per cent, is not pure wheat flour. The flour of hard wheat 
contains more than that of soft. 

These nitrogenous principles also exist for the most part in the 

* The imports of wheat in 1904 were nearly 99 million hundredweights, as 
follows: Russia, 23"5 millions; United States, 7 millions; Argentina, 21-4 
millions ; East Indies, 25-4 millions ; Australia, 10'2 millions ; New Zealand, 
0'358 million ; and Canada, 6-19 millions (' Life and Labour,' in Daily News), 



THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 231 

gluten of rye, oats, and barley ; but glutenin, the viscid principle 
which holds the meal together when it is made into bread, is 
deficient in the latter cereals, so that they do not hold together 
so well when made into paste, and it is absent from the legumes 
altogether. 

The starch consists of oval or round grains, varying in size 
from the merest point visible under the microscope to about 
__!__ inch in diameter, large and small being often mixed without 
intermediate sizes. Each grain has a hilum and concentric lines, 
as in other starch grains, but they are scarcely visible. 

Wheat is ground into flour to make bread. Good grain yields 
75 to 85 per cent, of fine flour, but inferior qualities only yield 
54 to 58 per cent. All the cereal grains have an outer covering 
or ' husk ' of a yellow-brownish colour, and an inner part which 
is more or less white, yielding the feculum. The outer cover- 
ing is removed when superfine flour is made, and constitutes 
' bran.' It contains a large proportion of gluten — 15 per cent. ; 
fat, 3-3; and phosphates and silicates, 5-7. Its removal, there- 
fore, diminishes the nutritive quality of the flour. The process 
of ' bolting ' to make the flour white has the efi"ect of removing 
the coarser parts, and leaving behind the ' fine firsts ' of the 
dealer. By this process the flour is deprived of 18 to 20 per cent, 
of the gluten in the coarse brownish particles which are taken 
out, but the lighter and whiter flour is rich in starch. Indeed, 
the whiter the flour the less nitrogenous material is left in it. 
Brown flour, being unbolted and containing the ' bran,' is far 
more nutritious, from which it follows that the removal of the 
bran and so much gluten to render the flour white is wrong from 
an economical standpoint. 

Composition of Flour. — Nitrogenous matter (gluten), 8 to 
11 per cent. ; carbohydrate (starch, sugar, dextrin), 60 to 70 ; 
fat, 2 ; salts, 1-7 ; water, 15. Girrard gives ^ the following result 
of the analysis of French wheat as represented by flour : Water, 
11-71 to 15-58 per cent. ; soluble in u-ater, 3-12 to 4-0 (including 
glucose, 0-09 to 021 ; saccharose, 0-86 to 1-7 ; nitrogenous 
matters, 1-02 to 1-28 ; galactin, etc., 0-52 to 0-99 ; inorganic salts, 
0-22 to 0-66) ; insoluble in luater, 79-94 to 80-94 (including gluten, 
7-45 to 8-32; starch, 69-88 to 71-22 ; fat, 0-84 to 1-12 ,; inorganic 
salts, 0-20 to 0-40; cellulose, 0-22 to 0-25 per cent.). Girrard 



232 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

considers the usual statement of the amount soluble in water — 
viz., 10 to 12 per cent, of flour, about half of which is glucose 
and dextrin — is erroneous. 

Bread is the food made by moistening flour with water, adding 
yeast to ferment it, kneading it into dough, and baking it. It is 
usually made from the flour of wheat, but barley, oat, and rye 
flours are also used, and in times of scarcity the fecula derived 
from other plants. 

The following is the composition of fine wheaten bread, 
according to Konig: Water, 38"51 per cent.; nitrogenous mateiial, 
6-82 ; fat, 0-77 ; sugar, 2-37 ; carbohydrate, 50. Other authorities 
give' the nitrogenous substance (gluten) as 8 per cent, and carbo- 
hydrate (starch, etc.) as 48 per cent. 

Bread is made by mixing Hour with 50 or 60 per cent, of water 
and some salt and yeast (preferably from malt and hops) ; the 
whole is kneaded into dough by hand or machinery, and left for 
some time in a room of moderate warmth. The yeast contains 
the fungus Torula cercvisice vel saccharomyces, which grows 
throughout the dough, and during its metabolism converts some 
of the starch into sugar, which in turn is decomposed into alcohol 
and carbonic acid. All the sugar is not decomposed, for bread in- 
variably contains more sugar than the flour from which it is made. 
The alcohol evaporates, its escape being aided by the warmth 
of the material ; the generation of carbonic acid gas renders the 
dough vesicular or causes the holes which are seen in hght, spongy 
bread, the dough swelling more and more as the gas is developed 
throughout the mass. When light enough it is formed into 
loaves and baked in an oven, during which the soluble albumin 
becomes insoluble, and the other constituents of gluten are 'set,' 
so that they cannot be separated from the starch. The fat and 
salts are not altered. A sack containing 280 pounds of flour will 
make 100 to 115 quartern loaves, according to the amount of 
water in the dough and whether cooked as cottage or tin loaves. 
When the dough is neglected, and fermentation is allowed to 
pass a certsin limit, acetic acid is formed, and the bread becomes 
sour. During cooking the loaves swell up still more, owing to 
the formation of steam from some of the water ; but as the water 
in the exterior is the first evaporated, this portion becomes crisp 
and firm, and forms a crust upon the surface, A well-baked loaf 



THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 233 

should have a bottom crust which is hard and resonant, while 
the crumb is elastic and spongy. If the crumb can be rolled into 
a ball, and remains so, either the bread is not sulEciently baked 
or the flour is deficient in quality. Good bread crumbles and is 
spongy, and expands again when it is compressed with the 
fingers. Freshly-ground flour is too adhesive to make good bread. 
It is usual to keep it a few weeks, care being taken to preserve it 
from damp, sometimes turning it over, until it readily falls apart 
in the hand. 

Aerated bread is made without the aid of yeast, by which 
means fermentation is avoided and some of the starch saved. 
It is usually made by machinery ; it is therefore more cleanly 
prepared, the hands of the baker not being used to mix or mould 
it, and contaminations of various character are avoided. Flour 
is put into the machine, the atmospheric air is abstracted and 
replaced by carbonic acid gas, and the dough is made wuth 
aerated water. The machine kneads the dough, turns it out to 
be caught in tins, which are placed upon an endless floor moving 
slowly over the fire, and the loaves, done to a turn, light and 
spongy, emerge from the opposite extremity. Bread so made is 
highly commended, because contamination is avoided. There is 
no danger of sourness from over-fermentation, and consequently 
less frequent indigestion, heartburn, and flatulence among the 
consumers. On the other hand, some authorities urge that bread 
made with yeast is more easily digested, being more easily 
changed by the digestive juices, than aerated bread. 

Aerated bread can be made on a small scale by using ' baking 
powder ' containing carbonate of soda and tartaric or citric acid, 
or by mixing some bicarbonate of soda with the flour and hydro- 
chloric acid with the water used to make the dough. By the 
action of the acid on soda, common salt and carbonic acid are 
formed, whereby the bread is aerated. The cooking is to be done 
immediately, and the result is a very sweet and delicious bread, 
rather yellow from the presence of soda if that is used in excess. 
The following recipe is useful : Take 6 pounds of white flour, 
G drachms of hydrochloric acid, 6 drachms of bicarbonate of soda, 
and 3 pints of water. Rub the soda well into the flour to mix 
it thoroughly ; add the acid to the water, and mix by agitation ; 
make the dough by stirriug them together, and bake at once. 



234 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Wheaten bread is the finest, most wholesome and palatable of 
all ; but its flavour and nutritiveness depend on the quality of the 
wheat. Soft wheat makes the whitest flour, but hard wheat is 
richer in gluten and more nutritive, and there are many grades 
between. The desire for loliite bread has been the means of 
introducing improved machinery for milling the wheat and 
various adulterations. The addition of potato, a harmless fraud 
which probably arose in periods of scarcity when attempts were 
made to eke out the wheat-supply in many ways, makes the 
bread whiter, but, of course, reduces the nitrogenous material 
in proportion to the adulteration. Alum is also used to make 
the bread white, but it lessens the nutritive value by converting 
the phosphates into the insoluble aluminium phosphate. Alum 
normally exists in bread to the extent of about 6 or 8 grains in 
a quartern loaf; any excess can only be due to addition, and it 
is a prolific source of dyspepsia and constipation. Excess of 
alum in bread may be detected by the use of logwood. Make an 
infusion of logwood with distilled water, and pour it over a slice 
of bread ; if alum is in excess the colour changes to a bluish or 
violet-gray. Lime-water has the same effect as alum in producing 
whiteness, and the bread so made is equally soft and retains 
moisture well ; the lime counteracts any acidity in the bread, 
and supplies a deficiency in all grain ; its action, therefore, is 
on the whole beneficent rather than deleterious. 

Other adulterants consist of the meal of barley, rye, oats, rice, 
maize, beans, lentils, and vetches. Eye-bread comes next in 
value to wheaten ; but barley, oats, and maize do not make good 
bread, as they are deficient in the adhesive properties of wheat ; 
they do not rise during fermentation, and consequently the bread 
is heavy, close in texture, and difficult to digest. Bean, haricot, 
or pea flours can be used to the extent of 5 per cent, with wheat 
flour for making bread without imparting an unusual odour, 
taste, or appearance, excepting that bean flour gives to the crust 
a golden-brown colour of agreeable appearance. Lentils and 
vetches can only be ground up with wheat of an inferior quality, 
because of their brown colour, but they increase the nutritive- 
ness of bread as much as they darken it. Maize and wheaten 
flour in equal proportions make a nice bread, but it is not very 
easy of digestion. Potato has been added for economical reasons 



THE CEEEALS AND THEIE SUBSTITUTES 235 

in the proportion of one-third of potato to two-thirds of wheaten 
flour, made into dough and fermented in the usual way. 

Bread is an essential article of food for the denizens of the 
temperate regions of the earth. It contains all the proximate 
elements necessary to sustain life for any length of time, and has 
been styled ' the staff of life '; but the gluten, starch, and sugar, 
are not exactly combined in the proportions which would make 
it a typical food. The nitrogenous elements are deficient, for to 
obtain the necessary amount of nitrogen required to make good 
the losses of the body by wear and tear of his machinery during 
an ordinary day's work a man must consume 4| pounds of bread; 
unfortunately, that quantity would supply so much more carbo- 
hydrate than he requires that much unnecessary work would be 
caused for his system to eliminate the surplus amount, or other- 
wise to store up the surplus carbon in his body, and the result 
would be an individual fat and bulky, having little stamina and 
less reserve power to endure great mental strain or physical 
fatigue, or to combat a serious illness. A typical and simple 
daily diet would consist of If pounds of bread, with h pound of 
lean meat and 2 ounces of butter to supply the deficiency of fat 
and nitrogenous material in the bread. Such a diet is the 
simplest combination, requires the least expenditure of energy 
in the way of digestion and absorption, and involves the least 
amount of waste in the animal economy. Excess of bread, on 
the other hand, causes acidity, flatulence, and other signs of 
indigestion, and when habitually taken leads to excessive forma- 
tion of fat in the tissues and corpulency. 

New bread and hot rolls, however delicious they may be, are 
indigestible, and should be eschewed by all who desire to keep 
their stomach in a proper working condition. What is the con- 
dition of new bread ? When it is taken out of the oven it is moist, 
the gluten and starch are soft and adhesive, the bread is not set ; 
consequently, it is not porous and does not absorb moisture. 
When new bread is masticated it becomes a leathery, poreless, 
putty-like mass, into which the saliva cannot enter, and the 
portions which are swallowed lie upon the stomach like bullets, 
whose digestion is certainly prolonged, if not prevented. Bread 
should always be kept for twenty -four hours in a cool place before 
it is eaten ; it ought to keep soft and palatable for three or four 



236 POOD AND HYGIENE 

days, and home-made bread will keep moist for a week. Toasted 
bread and cakes are indigestible, because the flour becomes 
soaked with the butter, and the latter must be removed by 
saponification in the intestines before the digestive ferments can 
attack the starch ; the digestion of buttered toast, muffins, pan- 
cakes, cakes, and other articles rich in fat, is necessarily slow and 
often very much delayed. 

Brown or Wholemeal Bread. — The covering of wheat and other 
cereals contains much phosphate of lime and silica, which render 
the cellulose abnormally hard of digestion ; it is removed from 
superfine white flour in the form of 'bran,' which contains 
15 per cent, of gluten, 3'3 of fats, and 5-7 of salts. It is therefore 
necessary to admit the high percentage of nutriment in bran, 
and the consequent diminution of it in wheat from which it is 
removed. Brown bread is made from whole meal — that is, from 
wheat which is not deprived of bran, or which has not been 
'bolted'; consequently, it contains the full complement of the 
nutriment in the unground wheat, and certainly contains a greater 
proportion of gluten and phosphates than white bread. Majendie 
proved the difl^erence in the value of brown and white bread by 
feeding two dogs : one was fed with white bread, and died after 
forty days ; but the other, fed on brown bread for the same 
length of time, lived without any interference to its health. 
Brown or whole-meal bread is now largely in favour, and many 
special kinds are made; it is more nutritious, contains more 
gluten, and is sweeter than white, and promotes the action of the 
bowels in a moderate degree ; but that which contains coarse 
bran is irritating to the stomach and bowels, and may cause 
catarrh and diarrhosa : it should therefore be eschewed by 
persons who have a weak stomach or delicate bowels. Whole- 
meal bread, in which the bran is reduced to a fine powder by 
modern methods of grinding, is deserving of an extended trial, 
because its nutritive qualities are great and the irritating pro- 
perties are reduced to a minimum. 

Pastry and cakes consist of the flour of wheat mixed with 
water or milk, butter or lard, and various ingredients which give 
flavour, palatability, and an agreeable appearance to the whole. 
Cakes are the means of adding largely to our nutriment by tbe 
sugar, eggs, butter, and flour they contain. Pastry and cake are. 






THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 237 

however, not very easily or quickly digests d, b; cause tLe butter 
or lard is so intimately mixed with the flour that the digestive 
juices cannot get at the latter until the fat is melted and 
sepai-ated from it ; for this reason very little pastry or cake is 
digested in the stomach : it must pass into the intestines for the 
previous digestion of the fat before the floury portion can be 
acted upon. This is the reason why cakes and pastry are such 
a frequent cause of acidity, heartburn, indigestion, and other 
disagreeable sensations in the region of the stomach and heart ; 
an excess of them readily causes an attack of acute gastric 
catarrh in persons liable to it. Heavy or close pastry is even 
worse than the average make of this useful accompaniment of 
the repast, because unusual care must then be taken in mastica- 
tion to insure the perfect pulverization of the mass before it is 
swallowed. Human stomachs are not gizzards which can grind 
their food after it is eaten. If great care be not taken in the 
mastication, it is impossible for the unbroken particles to pass 
through the pylorus until, by long maceration, the hard particles 
have fallen apart. The latter objection has also to be raised 
against boiled pastry puddings, Yorkshire pudding, pancakes, 
mulfms, and new bread ; however delicious and rich in nourish- 
ment these may be, they will tax the ability of the best digestive 
organs to extract the nourishment from them if they are close 
and heavy instead of being light and spongy. 

Puddings are made of many things : the flour of wheat, bread, 
macaroni, vermicelli, semolina, barley, oatmeal, maize, rice, sago, 
tapioca, etc. Milk enters largely into their composition, and the 
nutritiveness is materially increased by eggs and butter. Milk 
puddings, in the usual acceptation of that term, are light and 
easy of digestion, suited equally to the stomach of the healthy, 
the invalid, aged, or children ; they are far better adapted for 
persons of sedentary occupation or having mental work to perform 
than the heavy puddings made with a boiled pastry crust ; but the 
latter are suitable for the youthful and vigorous, and especially 
for those leading an active life, with some part of their time in 
the open air. 

Most of the farinaceous materials used in puddings contain 
much starch, as wheat flour, 60 to 70 per cent. ; oatmeal, 51 to 
55 ; rice, 75 to 80 ; maize, 59 ; barley, 70 ; but the admixture of 



338 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the albumin and fat of milk, eggs, and butter, together with some 
sugar, makes them very nearly a typical representative food. 

Macaroni, vermicelli, and semolina, imported from Italy, consist 
of the flour of wheat. In the two former it is made with a small 
quantity of water into a paste of the proper consistency, which is 
then driven through a perforated vessel to give it shape ; after 
being partly baked, it is hung over rods to dry. Semolina is 
decorticated wheat, crushed, sifted, and in small pearl-like grains. 
They are all of the same intrinsic value as wheat, are used in 
milk puddings, and are soft, light, wholesome, and easily digested. 
Vermicelli is the best of them for thickening soup, but semolina 
is also used for the same purpose. 

Eye, the seed of Secale cereale, N.O. Graminaceae, has been 
cultivated from ancient times, and considered next to wheat as 
a grain-food provider. It was formerly grown extensively in 
Britain for making bread, but its main use in England at the 
present time is to provide green fodder in the spring for cattle. 
As an esculent grain, however, it is by no means despicable, and- 
it is extensively grown for bread-making on the Continent of 
Europe, in districts where it is a less uncertain crop than wheat, 
and requires less manure and cultivation. 

The analysis of rye shows it to contain — water, 14-24 per 
cent. ; nitrogenous matters, 10-97 ; fat, 1-95 ; sugar, 3-88 ; 
gam, 7-13; starch, 68-73; fibre, 1-63; ash, 1-48. According 
to Osborne,'* the nitrogenous materials consist of — gliadin, 4-0 
per cent.; leucosine an albumose, 0-43; proteose, 1-76; and 
2-45 per cent, of proteids insoluble in salt solution ; total, 
8 '63 per cent, obtained from rye devoid of the bran. 

The salts are composed chiefly of phosphates of potash, soda, 
lime, and magnesia, and 2-54 per cent, of oxide of iron. The 
starch grains are like those of wheat, but many have a peculiar 
rayed hilum. 

Eye is made into bread, can be ' malted ' to make beer, and 
is also used in the distillation of gin. 

Eye bread is dark coloured, hence called ' black l)read.'* It is 
laxative and acid, prone to cause diarrhoea in persons unac- 
customed to it. The ill-effects produced in some persons by the 
long-continued use of rye bread are painful cramps and twitch- 
* Black bread is also made from buck- wheat, which is called ble noir. 



THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 239 

ings in the limbs, sometimes followed by dry gangrene. These 
effects are due to ergot of rye, the fungus Claviccps piLrptcrea, 
which attacks the grain and causes it to swell up and turn black. 
The seed is, in fact, replaced by a homogeneous tissue charged 
with an oily fluid, which develops the herring-like odour of pro- 
pylamine when liquor potassae is added to ergotized flour. The 
active principles in ergot of rye are four, but it would serve no 
useful purpose to dwell upon them here. 

According to Konig, the composition of rye bread is as follows : 
Water, 44-02 per cent. ; nitrogenous matters, 602 ; fat, 0-48 ; 
sugar, 2-54 ; starch, 45-33 ; fibre, 0-3 ; ash, 1-31. It is nutritious, 
but heavier and more difficult of digestion than wheaten bread. 
The dark colour, acidity, and general tendency to upset the 
digestive organs in those unaccustomed to it contrast greatly with 
the fine quahties of white bread used at ordinary times by highly- 
civilized people. It should not be eaten until at least two days 
old, and is said to be lighter when leavened with a mixture of 
wheaten flour and potato instead of brewer's yeast. In any case 
it requires baking slowly and for a long time to secure panification. 
In times of scarcity rye is often mixed with wheaten flour to make 
bread, in the proportion of one of rye to two of wheat, and equal 
parts of rye, wheat, and barley or rice, are said to make good bread. 

Barley, the varieties of Hordeum, N.O. Graminaceaj. Those 
commonly cultivated are Hordeum distichum, which bears two 
rows of flowers and seeds ; II. vidgare, having four rows ; and 
II. hexastichum, six rows. Barley bread was formerly a common 
food in England among the serfs, but has been little used for 
centuries, barley being now mainly grown for the manufacture of 
malt liquors and spirits, and for feeding cattle and poultry. 

The composition given by Wynter Blyth is as follows : Water, 
15-06 per cent.; nitrogenous material, 11-75; fat, 1-71; carbo- 
hydrate, 70-9; fibre, 0-11; ash, 047. The salts are phosphates 
of potash, soda, lime, and magnesia, iron 0-97, and silica. The 
starch is in grains almost indistinguishable from those of wheat, 
but said to approach to cellulose in character, and is therefore 
more difficult of digestion. The nitrogenous ' materials are similar 
to those of wheat — viz., hordein, resembling gliadin, 4 per cent. ; 
globulin (edestin) and proteose, 1-95; leucosine, 0-3; insoluble 
proteid, 4-5 ; total, 10-75— but they are not sufficiently adhesive 



210 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

to make good bread. Barley flour can be mixed with those of 
wheat and rye, as already indicated. It contains a large propor- 
tion of starch, but the mixture of bean or pea flour with it would 
increase the nutritive value. Barley bread has a sweetish taste, 
but is less palatable and nutritious than wheaten. An analysis from 
the same source is as follows : Water, 12-39'per cent.; nitrogenous 
material, 5-9; fat, 0-9 ; sugar, 3-9 ; carbohydrate, 71 ; fibre, 5'63. 

Pearl barley, H. decorticatum, is the grain deprived of its husk 
and outer covering or bran, rounded and polished. It is used in 
puddings, soup, and barley-water. 

Barley-water, or decoction of barley, is made by boiling 

2 ounces of pearl barley and 2 ounces of sugar for one hour in 

3 pints of water. It may be flavoured with a sliced lemon. It 
contains little nutriment, but is useful as a drink in febrile 
attacks. It is demulcent, emollient, expectorant, diuretic, and 
sedative to the urinary organs and all mucous surfaces. In cystic 
catarrh or irritability it is very serviceable, especially to the aged 
or debilitated, who have frequently to rise in the night to urinate. 

Malt, of which more will be said in the chapter on stimulants, 
is made by causing the barley to germinate under the influence 
of moisture and artificial heat until the germ has attained a 
length equal to about two-thirds that of the grain ; it is then 
dried. Valentine found that pale malt contains — starch, 44-15 
per cent.; sugar, 21-23; albuminoids, 13-9; fat, 1-65; cellular 
matter, 11-57 ; and ash, 2-6. It differs from barley in containing 
more sugar (which is derived by modification of the starch), more 
dextrin, less organic matter, and an active ferment, diastase. 
Diastase can be extracted from malt by grinding the latter to 
powder, macerating it with twice its bulk of water for five or six 
hours, then expressing and filtering the liquid. Twice its bulk of 
absolute alcohol is now mixed with the liquid, and very soon the 
diastase is precipitated, and can be collected, spread on glass, and 
dried at a temperature of about 45° C. in a current of air. 

Malt is largely used for the manufacture of extract of malt, a 
very excellent dietetic preparation of medicinal value. Such an 
extract is made by maceration of the powdered malt with water 
at an ordinary temperature with occasional mixing for five or six 
hours. The liquid is then expressed, strained, and evaporated in 
a temperature of about 115° F. {4:5° C.)— not exceeding 125° F., 



THE CEREALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 241 



otherwise the diastase will be destroyed. Diastase is an active 
ferment capable of converting the starch of all farinas into 
maltose, a form of sugar. A good specimen of extract of malt 
will convert several times its weight of starch into sugar (maltose), 
ready for absorption into the blood. The extract contains*^ all 
the principles of barley or malt — viz. : Albumin, 6-39 per cent. ; 
maltose, 45 ; dextrin, 7-2 ; invert-sugar, 14-49 ; cane-sugar, 3-40 ; 
and salts, besides diastase. It may therefore be taken with 
advantage by many persons with feeble power of digesting the 
starches, or as an actual food in many wasting diseases. It may 
be taken in a dose of one to four teaspoonfuls with a little warm 
food immediately before a meal ; or if taken about two hours 
after a meal, when the acid of the gastric juice is becoming 
exhausted, it will materially assist in the final stages of starch 
digestion. A further use for extract of malt is in the feeding of 
infants. The casein of cow's milk normally forms large curds in 
the early part of gastric digestion, and this tendency is much 
increased in many cases of illness. If to h pint of milk freshly 
boiled is added a teaspoonful of malt extract, and it is stirred 
thoroughly and allowed to stand for ten minutes, the ferment of 
the malt will break up the casein into fine floceuli, like that in 
human milk, which are easily digested. This must be diluted 
with water. The fat can be increased by the addition of cream, 
which together with the maltose will bring it up to about the 
standard of human milk. A little lime-water can be added. 

Oats, the seeds of Aveiia sativa and its varieties, N.O. 
Graminaceee, is a very large and nutritious article of diet, either 
as porridge, pudding, or oat-cake. The composition of oats 
according to the analysis of 1,000 samples by Balland' and of 
oatmeal by Dyer^ is here given : 



















Water. 


Fat. 


genous 
Matters. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Cellulose. 


Ash. 


Oats 


9-8 to 17 


2-8 to 


71 to 


.56-9 to 


7-0 to 


1-0 to 






6-83 


14-3 


64-3 


12-2 


6-9 


Oatmeal, fine ... 


8-2 to 9-5 


8-0 to 


12-9 to 


54-0 to 




1-7 to 






12-23 


18-1 


65-6 




4-0 


, , coarse 


7-9 to 9-1 


8-7 to 


13-0 to 


64-5 to 


— 


1-7 to 






10-32 


15-4 


65-2 




1-9 


Crushed oats ... 


8-1 to 8-9 


7 '5 to 


12-6 to 


65-2 to 





1 -6 to 






9-3 


15-1 


67-0 




1-9 



16 



242 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

They contain a larger proportion of fat than wheat or barley, 
and the proteids are high. Scotch oats are richer than English 
or German. The starch grains are small, compressed, faceted, 
and tend to cohere in masses. The value of oatmeal as an 
energy-provider may be seen by a comparison of the energy 
represented in foot-tons of work developed, according to Parkes,^ 
by the complete oxidation of an ounce of the following foods : 
Potato, 33 foot-tons per ounce ; egg, 68 ; bread, 88 ; cooked 
meat, 106; pea flour, 119; oatmeal, 130; cheese, 150; 
butter, 339. 

Oatmeal is one of the most valuable foods we possess. It 
ranks very high both as a flesh-former and energy-provider, and 
is at the same time one of the most economical materials pro- 
vided by Nature. Being rich in heating and fattening principles, 
it forms with milk an ideal food in the form of porridge or 
pudding. It is somewhat laxative, hence its value to persons 
who suffer from constipation. Its stimulating properties render 
it a highly useful diet for persons doing mental work. Oatmeal 
requires to be carefully prepared, for if it contains hairs, husks, 
and other material of the outer covering, it will irritate the 
mucous membrane of the stonaach and bowels, and is liable to 
cause catarrh of the stomach or diarrhoea, or form hard faecal 
accumulations or concretions in the bowels. 

Bread made from oatmeal by the aid of fermentation is soft 
in texture and wholesome. The cakes are unfermented, made 
flat, and either baked or roasted. The stomach requires some 
discipline before it can digest either of them with ease and 
comfort. 

Oatmeal, like other cereals, has valuable salts, of which Blyth 
gives the following analysis : Potash, 17 '0 in 100 parts of salts ; 
soda, 2-24 ; lime, 2-74 ; magnesia, 7-06 ; ferric oxide, 0*67 ; 
phosphoric acid, 2303; sulphuric acid, 1*36; silica, 44*73; 
chlorine, 0-58. Of all grain this is the richest in phosphates, 
which give it additional value as a food in cases where phos- 
phates are valuable, as in hectic, struma, scrofula, caries of bone, 
all diseases of tubercular origin and wasting diseases generally. 

Sorghum, Millet, Dukka. belong to a genus of the Graminaceae, 
with various species. Millet is the common name for small varie- 
ties, as Panicum miliaceum and P. miliare. Sorghum vulgare is 



THE CEEEALS AND THEIE SUBSTITUTES 243 

the largest of the cereal grains, and is called Indian millet or 
Guinea corn. Sorghum, sorghi, is the Indian name for millet ; 
durra, that most used in Egypt and Arabia. These grasses have 
tall, succulent stems, and are cultivated mainly for feeding cattle 
and poultry in Southern Europe. But they form an important 
food for man, of about the same value as rice. They are used 
freely by many of the inhabitants of East India, China, Arabia, 
Syria, Egypt, and other countries. Millet is rich in fat and 
nitrogen, makes good bread, and is physiologically a more com- 
plete food than wheat. Balland^" gives the following com- 
position : Water, 10 to 13 per cent. ; nitrogenous matters, 8-9 
to 15; fat, 2-2 to 7"3 ; sugar and starch, 56 to 66; cellulose, 
3 to 10 ; and ash, 1-4 to 6. 

Maize, Indian Cokn, Zea ma'idis, N.O. Graminacese. A native 
of America, and cultivated in warm countries. Corn meal, or 
ground maize, is rather coarse, and is used in porridge or mush 
and puddings. Being rich in fat, it possesses fattening, heating, 
and stimulating properties. It has been used as the basis of 
many patent foods. Corn and wheat flour in equal proportions 
make a nice bread, which keeps well, but is not easily digested. 
The green corn or ' mealie ' boiled in milk or roasted in ashes 
is an excellent and nutritious vegetable. 

Composition. — Osborne^^ derived from 100 grammes of maize or 
corn meal S-59 grammes of proteid, including 5 soluble in alcohol, 
which he called zein ; 3*14 of insoluble proteid ; 0"39 of globulins 
— maize - myosin, maize - globulin, and maize - vitellin which 
appears identical with edestin of the other cereals. The ash 
contains phosphate of potash and magnesia, some soda, lime, and 
magnesia, and 1-23 per cent, of ferric oxide. 



Nitro- 
genous I Fat. 
Matters, i 



hydrate. S"?""^- ^'^'■«- 



Ash, j Water. | Analyst. 



Yellow maize! lO'll i 4-23 67-44 2-70 1-43 
White maize 9-56 j 4-84 64-36 \ 2-68 i 1-72 
Corn meal... 14-0 3-88 70-68 , — ' — 



1-40 
1-72 
0-86 


12-6 
13-3 
10-63 


Z. &M.i-^ 
1 Bauer.''* 



The starch consists of fairly uniform granules, which are 
faceted or polygonal, about Yy\,Ty inch in diameter ; the hilum is 
distiuct, but the concentric Inies aie faiat. 

16—2 



244 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Polenta, largely consumed by the poor of Italy, is a kind of 
pudding made from maize meal ; and pone is a name applied to 
bread or cake made from corn meal, eggs, and milk ; liominy or 
corn-mush and hoe-cake are names applied to similar preparations 
in the United States ; and corn flour or corn starch is chiefly the 
starch obtained from maize. If long kept corn meal will go 
rancid, owing to degeneration of the fat or maize oil ; and pellagra 
is a disease which results from eating mouldy maize or corn meal, 
which has especially been prevalent in Lombardy. Maize when 
growing is liable to be attacked by a fungus, Ustilago mcujdis, when 
it is used therapeutically in the same diseases as ergot of rye. 

EicE, Oryza sativa, and varieties, N.O. Graminaceae, is grown 
in the East Indies and adjacent countries, in the marshy districts 
of Southern Europe, and in some of the Southern States of 
America. 

Composition. — Eice contains, according to Parkes — starch, 83-7 
per cent. ; fat, 0-8 ; nitrogenous matters, 5 ; salts, 0-5 ; water, 10. 
Other authorities have found as much as 7 per cent, of nitrogenous 
and as little as 77 per cent, of starch. The salts are phosphate of 
potash and magnesia, some lime, soda, silica, and 1-23 of ferric 
oxide. The starch grains are extremely minute, nearly uniform 
in size, polygonal or angular, like those of maize, without visible 
hilum or lines. 

Eice is poor in every alimentary principle except starch ; it, 
however, forms a light, wholesome, and unstimulating food. It 
is largely used as a food by the teeming millions of the East, and 
is suited to their temperament and the climate. But for the 
populations of temperate, and especially northern, climates it is 
not sufficiently stimulating to form a principal food, and should be 
taken in combination with other articles, forming a single course 
of the repast rather than the whole of it. It is a cheap addition 
to our food-supply, and is best eaten as a pudding, in which the 
nutriment is decidedly increased by the admixture of milk, eggs, 
and sugar. In such a form it is a typical diet — ' rice pudding ' — ■ 
of enormous value in nearly all forms of illness and invalidism. 
Curries consist mainly of boiled rice and various spices, such as 
cayenne pepper, and are very heating and stimulating by virtue 
of the added ingredients. Eice flour is also made into cake with 
butter and eggs, and is very nutritious, but, like other cakes, may 



THE CEEEALS AND THEIR SUBSTITUTES 245 

cause indigestion. Rice flour does not make bread by itself, but 
in times of scarcity it may lessen the consumption of wheat by 
being mixed with the latter to make bread as well as by being 
eaten in other ways. 

Rice is imported and known to commerce under various 
names. Of these Patna rice is the best for curry, or for boiling 
or making into flour. The grains are long and narrow-pointed, 
very firm, and do not become mealy in cooking. Carolina rice 
consists of larger and rounder grains, which swell up and become 
soft and pulpy during cooking. It is most suitable for milk 
puddings, those made of it being creamy and very palatable. 
Japan rice has similar characters and qualities to the Carolina, 
and is almost as highly esteemed for puddings. Java rice is also 
good, and of better quality than that of Arracan or Rangoon. 

Sago is the starch obtained from the pith of the Sago palm, 
Metroxylon rumi^hii et keve, N.O. Palmacese, which grows in the 
Moluccas. It exists in commerce as raw and prepared sago. 
The starch is obtained by felling the tree and sawing it to pieces ; 
the pith is taken out, broken up, put into cold water, and stirred 
about until all the flour comes off and falls to the bottom, where 
it is allowed to settle and accumulate. The water and coarse 
material are then separated, the deposit is taken out and spread 
upon wicker frames for the moisture to evaporate from it, and it 
is then passed through a perforated apparatus to give it a granular 
appearance. It is of a brownish colour. Examined micro- 
scopically, the starch grains appear large and irregular, with ill- 
defined concentric striae. Sago is used mainly for puddings, 
which are made with milk, eggs, and sugar, possesses similar 
alimentary properties to rice, and is equally suitable for food. 

Tapioca is the starch obtained from the pith and root of 
Cassava, Manihot utilissima, N.O. Euphorbiacese, a native of 
Brazil. It is obtained in a similar manner to sago, and is dried 
in the sun or upon hot plates, and the mass is broken into 
granules, or the paste driven through an apparatus to give it the 
rounded shape usually seen. Tapioca is whiter than sago, and 
is preferred by many people. The best commercial varieties are 
those of Penang and Rio. Tapioca consists mainly of starch 
grains having irregular and ill-defined markings, and when dried 
upon hot plates they become more or less swollen and indistinct. 



246 .FOOD AND HYGIENE 

It is one of the lightest of farinaceous foods, seldom causing 
acidity, and easily digested in the form of pudding, soup, or 
broth, by the robust or convalescent. Cassava root in its season 
is boiled in several waters and fried, when it resembles potatoes, 
and is eaten in the same way. 

Arrowroot is the starch obtained from the root cassava 
or Manihot utilissima, the same as tapioca, and from Canna 
edulis, and other roots grown in the East and West Indies, 
South America, South Africa, and various islands of the 
tropics. The following are the principal varieties known to 
commerce •.i'* 

1. Cassava starch or arrowroot, from Manihot utilissima, 
N.O. Euphorbiacege, a native of Brazil. 

2. Canna arrowroot. Tons les mois, from Canna edulis, N.O. 
Marantaceas. 

3. Maranta arrowroot, from Maranta arundinacea, N.O. Maran- 
tacese, from Jamaica, St. Vincent, Bermuda, Natal. 

4. Potato arrowroot or starch, from ordinary potatoes, 
Solanum tuberosum, N.O. Solanaceae, a common adulterant of the 
other kinds, recognisable by the microscope. 

The plants are cultivated in a similar manner to potatoes, 
and come to maturity in a year. The roots are then collected, 
washed, peeled, and washed again. They are then crushed 
to a pulp between the rollers of a machine. The pulp falls into 
a perforated vessel through which water is constantly running. 
In this manner the starch is washed out and makes a milky 
liquid. This is strained through muslin into a settling tank. 
When the water becomes clear it is run off, and the deposit or 
moist starch is taken out and dried either upon wooden trays 
having cloth bottoms and covered by gauze, or in copper pans 
covered with gauze to prevent contamination. 

Cassava arrowroot consists of starch grains varying from 
0-008 to 0-022 millimetre in diameter. They are for the most 
part mullet-shaped, some being circular, perhaps, from a different 
view of the granule, and there are many double or triple grains. 
Canna arrowroot consists of grains of starch which are oval or 
pyriform in shape, of large size, with well-marked concentric striae, 
but the hilum is indicated by a slight cleft or cross at the end of 
the granule. 



THE CEEEALS AND THEIE SUBSTITUTES 247 

The composition of sweet cassava, Jatropha manihot, is as 
follows ■}■' 





Pat. 


Proteid. 


Starch and Sugar. 


Fibre and Ash. 


Fresh peeled root ... 


0-17 


0-64 


30-89 


1-39 


Dry peeled root ... 


. 0-44 


1-66 


80-06 


3-57 



The carbohydrate is mostly starch, but includes about 2 per 
cent, of dextrin and sugar. The ash is chielly phosphate and 
carbonate of potash. The pulp, crude starch, and ethereal 
extract, yield a volatile oil. Prussic acid occurs in all the tubers : 
in bitter cassava 0-023 per cent, is uniformly distributed; in 
sweet cassava the inner part only contains 006 per cent., but 
the skin and cortical portion, which arc removed, contain 0-028 
per cent.i*^' 

Manioc or cassava consists of the roots ground to a meal, 
which is pressed into cakes, baked on iron plates, then cooled, 
broken into pieces, and dried in the sun. Good examples of 
arrowroot consist of — starch, 83-3 per cent. ; albumin, 0-8 ; salts, 
0-27 ; and water, 15-4. It is a valuable farinaceous food for 
infants and invalids under si^ecific conditions, and is usually 
mixed with milk and sugar to make it palatable and provide 
nitrogenous material. It is useful in nearly all cases of diarrhoea, 
but in ordinary states of health, like other very starchy foods, it 
is liable to cause constipation. 

Poi is the feculum of the root of Taro {Caladiiun esculentum, 
N.O. Araceae), a vegetable with a tuberous root grown in Hawaii 
and other islands of the Southern Pacific. In appearance this is 
something between a sweet potato and a yam. The flour from 
it is prepared in a similar manner to arrowroot, or by simply 
washing and grinding the roots to powder, or by cooking the root 
and mashing it up. Poi is a paste made from the flour by adding 
it slowly to hot water and stirring until the mixture has the 
consistency of paste, and is eaten with salt or sugar. It may 
also be cooked like corn or oat meal, or made into custard 
or cakes. Poi is from lavender to pink in colour, is a most 
wholesome and nutritious article of diet, easy of digestion, 
suitable for persons with gastric troubles, dyspepsia, acidity, 
catarrh, ulcer or carcinoma, also in enteric and other fevers, 
convalescence from many illnesses, and for feeding children. 



248 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The natives make poi by beating the roots into a paste and 
fermenting it for three or four days before use. 

Soya Beans, Soya Mspida, N.O. Leguminosae ; used in China 
and Japan to make sauce, or ground up and made into a kind of 
cheese. It is noted for its richness in proteid and comparative 
absence of starch, which give it an enormous value to patients 
suffering from diabetes. The flour can be made into bread and 
biscuits. The bean contains, according to Attfield — 41 per cent, 
proteid, 13 of fat, and 30 carbohydrate. The starch is only about 
6 per cent. Most of the carbohydrate consists of a mucilaginous 
substance which is neither starch nor sugar, but is convertible into 
the latter, and must therefore be taken into account when soya 
bread is recommended for diabetes. The bread has a peculiar taste, 
and may cause diarrhoea at first, but tolerance is soon established. 

Buckwheat is not a cereal, but Fagopyrum escidenttim, N.O. 
Polygonacese, and is known in France as bU noir. Cakes and bread 
made from it are fairly palatable and nutritious. The composition, 
according to Balland,!'' is — water, 13 to 15*2 per cent. ; nitro- 
genous, 9-4 to 11-4 ; fat, 1-9 to 2-8 ; carbohydrate, 58-9 to 63-35 : 
cellulose, 8-6 to 10-5 ; ash, 1-5 to 2-46. It is not so nourishing 
as wheat. It grows on the poorest soil, and is consumed in 
France, Holland, the United States, and parts of Asia. 

The chick-pea, or pulse, grows wild on the shores of the Mediter- 
ranean and in Eastern countries, where it is roasted and forms 
parched pulse. It is also used in cooking in Spain and France. 

Yams, Dioscorea tuberosa ; several varieties are grown in 
America, East and West Indies, Africa, Malacca, and nearly all 
tropical countries. The important part is the tuber, which varies 
in weight from 1 to 30 pounds, and being boiled or roasted forms 
a palatable, wholesome, and nutritious food. They are eaten 
like potatoes, and consumed largely in tropical and sub-tropical 
countries. They contain much starch, become mealy during 
cooking, and they are not sweet like Batatas edulis. The water- 
yam, which grows in running streams in Madagascar, is quite 
a different thing. It, however, has a stock-root, which contains 
farinaceous material, and is used for food. 

Sweet Potato is the tuber of Batatas edulis, N.O. Convolvu- 
laceae. It is grown in Spain, the West Indies, America, and nearly 
all tropical countries. The roots are fleshy and spindle-shaped 



THE CEEEALS AND THEIE SUBSTITUTES 249 

of sweetish taste, but nutritious, and considered a delicacy by 
many. They contain 10 per cent, of sugar and 16 per cent, of 
starch. They become mealy when cooked, and are eaten like 
ordinary potatoes ; but, owing to their sweetness, they are not 
such an appropriate accompaniment to meat as yams or potatoes. 

Irish or Carrageen Moss {Chondrus crispus) grows on the 
rocks and stones of the sea-shore in Britain and many other 
places. It yields a mucilaginous carbohydrate, and is used for 
making soup and jelly. 

Iceland Moss (Cetraria Islandica) is also used as a food in 
northern climates. ^^' The composition, according to C. W. Brown, ^^ 
is — nitrogenous, 0-56 per cent.; fat, 3-2; carbohydrate, 43-3; 
fibre, 5"3. The amount of proteid is very small, and resists 
artificial digestion ; but it contains a large amount of carbo- 
hydrate in the form of lichenin and lichenin starch. The latter 
gelatinizes like ordinary starch, and is converted by acids into 
dextrin and dextrose. There is also a bitter principle, which 
must be removed by repeated washiug with water or weak 
alkalies. It makes a very palatable bread, which Senator recom- 
mends for pei'sons suffering from diabetes. When boiled in milk 
both these mosses will form a jelly, and a decoction is recom- 
mended for kidney affections. 

References : ' Wynter Blyth's ' Manual of Foods.' ^ Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 
xvi., 524. 3 Co7npt. Rendus, 1897, 124. ■* Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1895, 17. 
5 Log cit. « The Analyst, 1901, 2.31. '' Coinpt. Eendus, 1897, 125. « The 
Analyst, 1901, 152. » Parke's 'Hygiene and Public Health.' >" Oo^npt. Henclus, 
1898. 127. '1 Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc., xix., 525. ^~ Zegga and Majstorovic, 
Chem. Zeit, 1899, xxiii., 544. " Yeo's ' Food in Health and Disease.' ^^ Greenish, 
Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, vii., 169. '^■' Ewell and Wiley, Amer. Jour. Chem., 
XV., 4. 16 Carmody, the Lancet, September, 1900. i' Compt. Eendus, 1897 
125. IS j^mer. Jour. PhysioL, 1898, 445. 



CHAPTER XVII 
STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 

Tea. — The dried leaves of several varieties of Thea chinensis, 
N.O. Ternstroemiacese ; grown extensively in hilly tracts of land 
in China, Japan, Tonquin, Cochin-China, Ceylon, India, and 
Assam. Great skill and attention are required in its cultivation 
and preparation. Tea is found growing wild in Assam, which is 



250 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

said to be the progenitor of all the cultivated varieties. Assam 
tea is a variety cultivated exclusively in that country. Tea is 
black or green, according to the method adopted in preparing it. 
Green tea is prepared from young leaves, which are dried by 
roasting them over a wood fire as soon as they are gathered. In 
the preparation of black tea the leaves are plucked and thrown 
into a heap or in vessels for about twelve hours, during which 
a species of fermentation takes place owing to the action of 
various enzymes. The leaves are afterwards submitted to various 
processes, and slowly dried over charcoal fires. Oxydase enzyme 
is the principal agent in the fermentation and colouring of tea ;i 
it occurs in greatest quantity in the unopened tip-leaf of the 
shoot and stalk, but it diminishes with their growth and expan- 
sion. The proportion of enzyme present in a given sample bears 
some relation to the amount of phosphates in the soil, and it 
increases as the leaf withers during the preparation of the 
tea ; the leaves containing the most enzyme make the most 
highly flavoured tea. The consumption of this more or less 
innocent stimulant increases with the world's population, and 
exceeds 150,000,000 pounds a year. China teas are Congou, 
Souchong, and Bohea, which are black ; Hyson, Twankay, and 
Gunpowder, which are green. Indian tea, Assam, or Assam- 
Pekoe, are good ; and a good blend is made of China, xAssam, 
and Ce5'lon teas together. China tea, such as Moning-Congou, 
is very suitable for persons whose digestive organs are weak. 

Composition. — Average tea contains — water, 11-49 per cent. ; 
nitrogenous matters, 21-22; gum and dextrin, 7-13 ; theine, 1'35; 
ethereal oil, 0-67 ; fat, wax, and chlorophyll, 16-75 ; woody 
fibre, 20-30; ash, 511 (Konig). The active principle is theine 
(CgHjoN^Og), which is isomeric with caffeine, and is found in tea, 
cofiee, mate, guarana, and kola-nut ; it varies in quantity from 
1 to 4 per cent., and it crystallizes from a watery solution, has 
a slightly bitter taste, but is without odour. The proportion in 
a sample of tea can be estimated (a) by exhausting 100 grammes 
of tea with water, precipitating it with acetate of lead, and 
filtering ; the theine is further purified by freeing it from lead 
with sulphuretted hydrogen and crystallization by evaporation, 
and still further by decolourizing the crystals with animal charcoal 
and recrystallization, the weight of the crystals being the per- 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 251 

centage."-^ (b) Markownikoff ^ gives the following method of estima- 
tion : Boil 15 grammes of powdered tea with 500 grammes of 
water and 15 grammes of calcined magnesia for some time ; filter 
the decoction, wash the residue, and again filter ; mix the hquids 
together ; mix in the filtrate a known weight of calcined magnesia, 
and evaporate to dryness ; the residue contains the impure 
theine plus the magnesia ; weigh it. To separate the theine, 
exhaust the residue with hot benzol, filter, and evaporate the 
solution ; pure theine is left behind, and can be weighed and 
estimated, (c) In the examination of leaves (such as those 
suspected to be sj^ent or not genuine tea-leaves), to ascertain the 
presence of theine the sublimation method may be used. A few 
leaves are placed in a watch-glass, covered by another watch- 
glass, and fixed on a wire support about 7 centimetres above a 
source of heat.^ The upper glass will shortly show numerous 
droplets of condensed fluid, in ten minutes fine needle-shaped 
crystals of theine will appear, and in fifteen minutes a good 
crop for microscopic examination. The method is equally 
applicable to cofi'ee, mate, guarana, and kola-nut. Exhausted 
tea-leaves, coffee, etc., treated in this way will show no sign of 
such crystals ; on the other hand, the test is so delicate that a 
small portion of tea-leaf weighing 0-0011 gramme gave distinct 
crystals after ten minutes' heating.^ 

Theine is a powerful poison in large doses ; i gramme causes 
a quick pulse, nervous excitement, slight delusions, and, lastly, a 
desire for sleep. Smaller doses cause sleeplessness, irritability 
of the bladder and bowels, trembling of the extremities, uneasi- 
ness, restlessness, anxiety, and other signs of cerebral or nervous 
distress, followed by a dreamy sleep. 

Tannin is stated by Parkes to average 15 per cent, and by 
Konig 12-36 ; it, however, varies greatly. Wigner'^ has found as 
much as 33 per cent, in choice Assam, 39 in young Hyson, and 
42 in caper. Tea also contains gallic acid, oxalic acid, quercitin, 
resinous and waxy matters, which are extracted by infusion or 
decoction. 

The essential oil is yellow, and has a strong odour of tea ; it 
has a specific gravity lower than that of water, and it solidifies 
on exposure to cold. Green tea contains a greater proportion of 
ethereal oil, theine, and tannin, than blick. 



252 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

As a beverage an infusion is prepared by adding two teaspoonfuls 
to 1 pint of boiling water, and allowing it to stand five minutes ; 
it is then poured off. Most Europeans sweeten it with sugar, 
and the addition of cream increases its deliciousness. The above 
is of sufficient strength for most persons if the tea is of fair 
quality ; longer standing spoils the aroina, draws out the tannin 
and other astringent principles and colouring matter, makes 
the infusion rough and bitter to the taste, unwholesome, and 
adds little to the refreshing qualities of ' the social cup.' The 
water should be fresh boiled, and ought not to be kept simmering 
before using it, as such water never makes good tea ; and to 
insure the temperature when it is poured on the leaves, the tea- 
pot ought to be first washed out with boiling water. The 
infusion contains glucose, albumin, more or less tannin, theine, 
and the volatile oil ; it is of slight nutritive value, but it increases 
respiratory action, and has a decidedly invigorating and restora- 
tive effect on the nervous system in general, and the intellectual 
faculties in particular. It stimulates the general circulation, in 
consequence of which the arterial system of the brain is quickened, 
to the relief of headache, dulness, lowness of spirits, and melan- 
choly, which effects are due to theine and essential oil." An 
infusion of tea differs from that of coffee in containing iron and 
manganese, which cannot be without their influence upon the 
system. 

These stimulants (tea, coffee, cocoa) yield a remarkable series 
of substances which belong to the alloxuric or purin bodies, 
analogous to uric acid and xanthin ; thus theine or caffeine is 
tri-methyl-xanthin, and theobromine is di-methyl-xanthin, and 
they can be prepared synthetically from xanthin : 

Hypoxanthin = CgH^N^O. 

Xanthin = C^H.N.Oo- 

Uric acid = C.H^N^g. 

Theobromine = C7Hj,N^0o. 

Theine or caffeine = Cyll^QN^Oo. 

Hypoxanthin and xanthin are found in animal tissues as a result 
of tissue metabolism, decomposition of nucleo-proteids, and the 
oxidation of nitrogenous substances from the tissues or foods 
consumed, and are eliminated from the body as uric acid, which 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 253 

is also the form in which caffeine and theobromine are eliminated. 
Tea, coffee, cocoa, mate, and guarana, by virtue of these active 
principles, directly excite the secretory activity of the kidneys, 
thereby increasing the elimination of nitrogen in the form of 
urea and uric acid. In this respect they form a contrast to the 
saline diuretics, which only appear to increase the discharge of 
water and salts from the body. 

An excess of tea is always deleterious, although some persons 
are more subject to its influence than others. Common symptoms 
are indigestion, heartburn, Hushing of the face and excessive 
nervousness, neuralgia, headache, insomnia, and other nervous 
troubles. Green tea is more likely to produce a train of nervous 
symptoms than black. It should never be taken with or imme- 
diately after a meal of meat, as the tannin has a tendency to 
retard digestion by coagulating albumin, and thereby promotes 
flatulence and dyspepsia. 

The ash of tea, according to Zoller,^ contains — potash, 39'22 
per cent. ; soda, 0-65 ; lime, 4-24 ; magnesia, 6*47 ; oxide of 
iron, 4-48 ; manganese, 1-03 ; phosphoric acid, 14-55 ; carbonic 
acid, 24-3 ; chlorine, 0-81 ; silica, 4-35 ; total, 100-00. 

Adulterations. — Quartz, sand, and the magnetic oxide of iron, 
are found in the dust. The facings of green tea consist of Prussian 
blue and French chalk — a thin film of graphite may sometimes be 
found ;'■' but artificial colouring is fast disappearing. 

Many leaves have been used as adulterants, such as hawthorn 
{Crat(egus oxyacantha), sloe (Prunus communis), beech (Fagus 
sylvatica), Camellia saxanqua, ClorantJms inconsjncujis, also 
bramble, raspberry, plum, gooseberry, elder, and willow, besides 
spe7it tea-leaves, which have been ' faked ' with astringents, such 
as catechu and soluble salts of iron, or moistened with starch and 
rolled up to look like ordinary leaves. There are various methods 
of detecting fraud, as by the sublimation method, to determine 
the presence of theine. Foreign leaves are detected by heating a 
small quantity of tea with water until the leaves are sufficiently 
moistened to permit them to be unfolded, spread upon glass, and 
the serrations at the edge, the venation, and stomata, examined 
by a magnifying glass.^*' A further method used is the determina- 
tion of the amount of ash. According to Zoller, genuine dry 
tea-leaves contain 5-75 per cent., but spent tea-leaves much less, 



254 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

ash, while most of the leaves used for adulteration contain more 
ash than the genuine leaves. Wanklyn also points out that the 
solubility of the ash varies ; he takes 2 grammes of the leaves 
and burns them in a platinum dish until the ash is gray ; he 
then allows the dish to cool, and weighs it to ascertain the 
amount of ash ; he afterwards heats the ash with boiling water 
and iilters it, evaporates the filtrate to dryness, and again weighs 
it to ascertain the amount of insoluble ash. 

Tea Cigarettes. — A habit of smoking tea in cigarettes has 
arisen amongst those, especially ladies, who demand artificial 
stimulants. In many cases the use of these cigarettes is taking 
the place of the morphine, cocaine, or strychnine habit — that is 
to say, they are replacing one evil by another. Green tea, or 
a mixture of Souchong and Hyson, is used in many cigarettes. 
The smoke contains three parts of the theine of the tea unaltered, 
besides the ethereal oil, hydrogen sulphide, ammonia, and car- 
bonic acid.ii The effects of the habit are so serious that it ought 
to be discouraged, and it has been suggested that the sale of the 
cigarettes should be made a penal oiifence. It is said that if 
the taste for them is developed the smoker is doomed. They 
cause the head to swim, and a desire to clutch things to prevent 
falling ; this is followed by a dazed, semi-stuporous condition and 
extravagant visions. The secondary effects are often disastrous ; 
they cause insomnia and nervousness, and frequently serious 
mental disease or a break-down of the nervous system is induced 
by smoking them, for which numerous ladies have had to be 
treated in sanatoria.^- 

Substitutes used for Tea. — In many countries various leaves 
are used, not to adulterate, but as substitutes for tea : thus, 
Labrador tea consists of the leaves of Ledum latifolium ; Mada- 
gascar tea, or Fahum, of the leaves of an orchid. In Africa 
various plants having stimulating properties are used as tea. 
Bush tea consists of the leaves of Cyclopia (N.O. Leguminosae), 
which has a strong aromatic odour like China tea ; ' stekelthee,' 
of the leaves of another African leguminous plant; Caffre tea, 
of several species of Helichrysium (N.O. Compositse), which have 
an agreeable smell and are favourites with the natives ; ' Doru- 
thee,' or Cape tea, of tae leaves of Clifibrtia (N.O. Kosaceffi).!^ 
Kat or Catha ediUis (N.O. Celastrinse), is the tea of Arabia, a 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 255 

shrub much used, and forming an important article of commerce 
among the Arabs. The twigs and leaves of the shrub are made 
up into bundles of various size and quality. It contains a 
principle called katine, allied to caffeine, and it is used in a 
decoction ; its effects are similar to those of coca {q.v.) ; it is a 
pov^erful stimulant to the nervous system, banishes sleep, restores 
the physical forces, and sustains the system under great muscular 
activity. 

Coffee, the fruit of Caffea Arahica, N.O. Eubiacese, is a native 
of Arabia and Abyssinia, but is grown extensively in many dis- 
tricts of tropical countries ; it is imported from Jamaica, 
Malabar, Rio, Costa Eica, Java, Ceylon, Egypt, Arabia, and the 
East Indies. The kinds best known to commerce are called 
Mocha, Mysore, Mysore - Peabody, Costa Eica, Ceylon, and 
Plantation, the order given being somewhat that of their relative 
value. While Mocha is the best coffee, most comes from Java 
and Central America ; about 100,000,000 pounds are consumed 
annually. The tree is a shrub about 15 to 20 feet high, which 
bears white and sweet-scented flowers. Coffee consists of the 
fruit, which is a small red fleshy berry about the size of a small 
cherry, containing two seeds or beans in each ; they are gathered 
when ripe, and the outer covering and pulp are removed ; a 
pound of coffee is usually the product of more than one tree. 
Before using it, coffee is roasted and ground. The excellence of 
the beverage depends very largely upon the care and skill exercised 
during roasting : if it is too little roasted, it is devoid of flavour ; 
if too much, it becomes acrid and has a burnt taste. During 
roasting the berry swells from the formation of gases, and a 
large quantity of water is driven off, some of the active principle 
is volatilized, and sugar changed into caramel ; the cells con- 
taining the fat and nitrogenous elements are ruptured, and the 
aroma is developed. Caflfeol (CgH^QO^,) is also given off, together 
with some of the caffeine, carbonic acid, palmitic and acetic acids, 
pyrrol, methylamine, and hydroquinone.^'* It is best roasted at 
210° P., and as the aroma is volatile, the infusion is more fragrant 
when the coffee is roasted immediately before use. 

Composition. — Nitrogenous matters, 6*15 to 13'58 per cent. ; 
fat, 3-98 to 11-6; cellulose, 8-6 to 16-1 ; ash, 2-1; caffeine, 0-5 to 
2"05 ; water, 7 to 13-5. ^-^ It also contains the aromatic oil, caffeo- 



256 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



tannin, sugar, gum, and salts. The infusion contains chiefly the 
caffeine, aromatic oil, salts, and colouring matter. The oil is 
a brown liquid developed during roasting ; a single drop fills 
a room with the odour of coffee, and a mere trace gives the 
characteristic aroma to a quart of water. 

Caffeine is the active principle (CyH^^N^Oo) isomeric with theine 
in tea and guaranine in guarana, and closely allied to theobromine 
in cocoa. It is slightly bitter, crystallizes in slender silk-like 
needles, and readily forms salts. Its presence and percentage in 
a given sample is determined in the same way as theine. The 
pure alkaloid and citrate are used in medicine, and either in this 
way or in the ordinary infusion caffeine is absorbed unchanged 
into the blood, and its chief action is on the nervous system and 
the kidneys (see 'Tea '). 

Various substitutes are sold for coffee, and Duchacek gives the 
following composition of some, which he compares with genuine 
coffee : ^^ 





Fig Coflee. 


Malt Coffee. 


Chicory Coffee. 


1 

Ceylon Coffee. 


Moisture ... 


7-8.3 


207 


5-99 


1-96 


Soluble in water ... 


70-99 


41-93 


69-67 


26-06 


Sugars 


35-70 


1-73 


18-23 


1-43 


Dextrin 


2-30 


15-83 


1-40 


0-96 


Caffeine 


nil 


nil 


nil 


1-12 


Fat 


307 


5-24 


2-23 


15-02 


Ash 


4-47 


3-19 


5-88 


3-65 



Adulterations. — Coffee is most often adulterated with chicory ; 
but many other substances are used, as dandelion roots, acorns, 
wheat, rye, peas, beans, the seeds of lupin, cassia, dates, and 
figs ; also turnip, mangold, cabbages, burnt sugar and other 
colouring agents. None of these are deleterious, but they are 
poor substitutes for the genuine article, and do not contain the 
active principle and aromatic properties of coffee. The worst 
effect of such adulteration is the decrease in the percentage of 
caffeine in the mixture. Chicory {Cichorium intyhus, N.O. Com- 
positae) contains no caffeine and no aromatic oil like coffee ; but 
it sweetens and gives additional body, bitterness, and colour to 
it. The sugar in pure roasted coffee seldom exceeds 2 per cent., 
but in roasted chicory it may exceed 10 per cent. Wolff gives 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 257 

the following as the mean composition of commercial samples :^'^ 
Moisture, 12-3 per cent. ; ash, 5-8; sodium chloride, 022; iron, 
0-12; Iffivulose and dextrose, 11 -1 (7 to 14); inulin, 5*9 ; caramel, 
13-4 ; aqueous extract, 60-1 ; cellulose, 9-1 ; salts, 1-9 ; nitrogen, 
6-0. The inulin may reach 11 or even 16 per cent., but some of 
it is converted into IsBvulose during roasting.^^ 

A large quantity of chicory root is cultivated for this purpose 
in England and Europe, and when it is carefully roasted and 
ground it has an appearance very much like coffee. The micro- 
scope is indispensable in detecting it, and reveals its presence by 
the coarse areolar tissue and long dotted ducts which are char- 
acteristic of chicory ; while coffee presents the oval cells of the 
testa and irregular networks of fibres containing the dark angular 
masses and oil globules which form the material of the berry. 
Another method of detecting chicory is to sprinkle some of the 
coffee upon water in a glass vessel ; the chicory rapidly sinks, but 
the coffee floats a considerable time, owing to the oil globules and 
gases developed during roasting. At the same time, each particle 
of chicory becomes rapidly surrounded by an amber- coloured 
cloud, which spreads in streaks throughout the water until the 
whole is brown ; with pure coffee no cloud is produced under 
fifteen minutes.^^ The adulteration of coffee by roasted grain, 
beet-root, and other things, is detected by the microscope and 
chemical tests for starch and caffeine.-'' Chicory often contains 
added sugar ; and roasted beet-root, which contains a larger pro- 
portion of sugar and yields more to water than chicory, is either 
mixed with it or used as a substitute. Boasted beet-root has the 
following composition: Water, 5-03 per cent.; nitrogen, 1-63; 
fat, 0-7 ; sugar, 34-69 ; ash, 7*89 ; matters soluble in water, 49-5.21 

The preparation of the beverage requires care to insure the 
best effects of the coifee. It may be taken as an infusion or 
decoction. The infusion is the best ; it should be made by putting 
the coffee in a strainer or muslin bag in the coffee-pot and pouring 
the water through it ; the water should be not quite boiling 
(210° F.), at which temperature the aroma is best preserved. 
Coffee made in this simple manner contains nearly all the strength 
and the fullest amount of the aromatic oil ; the addition of sugar, 
boiled milk, and cream, makes a delicious wholesome, and 
refreshing beverage. Those who boil coflee do so in ignorance of 

17 



258 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

its nature, and usually have the mistaken notion that the strength 
cannot be extracted without boiling ; this is contrary to fact. 
By boiling or infusing the coffee in quite boiling water the fine 
aromatic oil is evaporated, mucilage extracted, and a deposit of 
some of the active ingredients takes place ; the coffee is conse- 
quently fiat and weak. It is true that the Arabs and Turks boil 
their coffee, but they do so only for a moment, and each cup is 
prepared by itself, and is much more like an infusion than a 
decoction. Orientals do not take sugar or milk with it ; they 
drink it at all hours of the day and night, and give it to their 
visitors at all times ; some of them appear to exisc principally 
upon coffee and opium or haschish. 

Coffee is an aromatic, refreshing, invigorating, tonic stomachic 
and stimulant ; by it the digestive glands are stimulated and 
digestion indirectly assisted; it is laxative, dietetically whole- 
some, more stimulating than cocoa, but less sustaining. It has 
considerable influence over the nervous and muscular systems ; 
it removes the sense of fatigue, and is an aid to persons under- 
going fatigue in all circumstances. These effects are due mainly 
to caffeine ; medicinally, this principle is useful as a cardiac 
stimulant and in dropsy, whether due to failure of the heart or 
disease of the liver or kidneys. Schroeder showed by experi- 
ments that the diuretic action is due, firstly, to its exciting the 
central nervous system, and, secondly, to its direct action on the 
kidney substance. Bruce says that in passing through the kidneys, 
not only is the watery secretion increased owing to the increased 
blood-pressure, but it stimulates the cells of the kidneys and 
causes increased excretion of waste matters, to the advantage of 
the consumer. It is valuable in heart disease, Bright's disease, 
liver disease, alcoholism, insomnia, nervous headache, neuralgia, 
collapse, epilepsy, spasmodic asthma, influenza, sea-sickness, and 
in opium-poisoning. The morning cup of coffee stimulates the 
brain, clears the intellect, removes languor, fatigue, headache, 
drowsiness, and faintness, by its influence as a nerve stimulant 
and restorative ; the action of the heart is quickened, the general 
circulation stimulated and a feeling of well-being induced ; the 
breathing is quickened, partly because of the strengthening of the 
heart's action, but also from the quickening of the movements of 
respiration and increased expiration of CO2. It likewise stimu- 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 259 

lates the secretions and movements of the alimentary canal. The 
ekin partakes of the same beneficial effect, for not only does the 
liquid produce a sensation of warmth to the skin in a cold climate 
or weather, but it stimulates the sweat glands and increases the 
loss of heat by the skin, whereby a cooling effect is produced 
in warm weather or a tropical climate. Habit weakens the in- 
fluence of coffee, tea, and other stimulants containing the same 
active principle ; it is also observed that persons of a delicate or 
nervous idiosyncrasy cannot always drink coffee or tea, because 
they cause them to have palpitation of the heart or cardiac 
distress, nervous agitation, trembling, wakefulness, and sleepless- 
ness ; these symptoms may also occur in anyone who takes these 
beverages in excess, and they sometimes produce a species of 
narcotism. 

MATifc, or Paraguay tea, consists of the leaves of a species of 
holly, Ilex paraguayeiisis, N.O. Aquifoliacese, which grows abun- 
dantly in Paraguay, Chaco, Brazil, and other places in South 
America. The tree forms woods in some places ; it grows to a 
height of 4 to 7 metres, with a trunk of about 20 centimetres in 
diameter ; the bark is whitish, and the leaves oblong, cuneiform, 
obtuse, and finely dentate. Its use occupies a position in South 
America similar to that of Chinese and Indian tea in Europe ; it 
was derived from the natives, who call it mate, and the quantity 
consumed is said to exceed 8,000,000 pounds a year. Throughout 
South i\merica it constitutes the favourite drink of the inhabitants, 
who ascribe to it innumerable virtues. Its preparation is different 
from that of tea ; the young branches and twigs are cut off and 
placed on hurdles over a fire until properly dried or roasted ; the 
leaves from each branch are then removed and cut into small 
pieces or reduced to a coarse powder. The natives make the 
infusion in a gourd, and the fluid is drawn through a ' bombilla,' 
or small tube, into the mouth. It contains 0*5 to 1*85 per cent, of 
caffeine- and 0*77 per cent, of a yellow oil having an odour like 
the plant. -^ Its composition, according to Katz,^* is as follows : 
Minerals, 7-24 per cent. ; moisture, 9-38 ; nitrogen, 2-05 ; caffeine, 
I'lo ; albuminoid matters, 10-75 ; fat and resin, 6'57 ; tannin, 7-74 ; 
soluble in water, 31 •18. The salts contain a high percentage of 
magnesium and manganese, to which some of the physiological 
properties of the plant are due. The proportion of caffeine is by 

17—2 



260 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

no means large, but the oil which it contains appears to give some 
of the stimulating properties. 

The action of mate places it in a position intermediate between 
tea and coffee. It acts chiefly upon the nervous system, but 
though it contains a moderate proportion of caffeine, it neither 
exalts the peripheral nerves like tea, nor the cerebral nerves like 
coffee. It is said to be a harmless beverage : it relieves fatigue, 
and conveys a feeling of lightness and energy which makes duty a 
pleasure ; it is especially useful for those who have night duties 
to perform. -•'• But when it is taken in excess, it contributes to 
indolence, drowsiness, and mental torpor, in the same way as 
other sedatives and narcotics. -*' It accelerates the heart and the 
movements of the alimentary canal ; and is beneficial for many 
nervous affections, headache, migraine, nervous irritability, neur- 
algia, or insomnia, for which it may be taken to the extent of three 
or four teacupfuls a day prepared like ordinary tea. 

Excessive and prolonged use of mate makes it an imperious 
necessity, such a gloominess following abstention from it that 
habitual drinkers would rather go without food than mat6. It is 
also said to cause nervous affections of the heart, and gastric 
troubles, especially when it is sucked through a tube and the hot 
liquid comes into contact with the gastric mucous membrane ; 
toleration is well established, however, by many persons. 

GuARANA, or Brazilian cocoa, is a preparation made in South 
America, consisting of the seeds of PmcUinia sorbilis, N.O. Sapin- 
daceae, roasted and pounded into a stiff paste with water, formed 
into cylindrical rods, and dried in the sun. It contains 5 per cent, 
of caffeine, and is, therefore, much stronger than either of the 
foregoing ; it also contains tannin, starch, and gum.-'' 

As a beverage, 15 to 60 grains infused in boijing water is of 
undoubted value as a stimulant and restorative beverage, which 
is entirely due to its richness in caffeine. It is, however, princi- 
pally used in the treatment of megrim or sick headache, and is 
well adapted for the nervous form of this affection, but is of very 
little use when headache arises from biliousness or gastric 
troubles. It has also been used in incipient phthisis, wasting 
diseases, and in convalescence from acute disorders, because it is 
considered to promote constructive metabolism. At the least it 
has the power of checking the waste of the tissues. 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 261 

Kola or goora nut, the product of an African tree, Cola 
acuminata, N.O. Sterculiacese. It is a highly invigorating and 
stimulating article of food, highly prized as a condiment and aid 
to digestion by the natives of Africa, the West Indies, and Brazil. 
The composition of ten varieties of kola-nut averages : "Water, 
13-5 per cent. ; total nitrogen, 1-53 ; caiifeine and theobromine, 
2-08; ethereal extract, 1-35 ; starch, 45-4 ; tannin, 3-79; cellulose, 
7*0 ; other non-nitrogenous matters, 18-21 ; and minerals, 2-90.28 
The active principle is kolanine, a glucoside, which under the in- 
fluence of an enzyme in the nut splits up into caffeine, kola-red, 
and glucose.'-"' The fresh undried nuts contain very little kolanine. 
It is developed in them under the influence of light, air, warmth, 
and moisture, by the action of an enzyme, laccase. Dried Congo 
and Dahomey nuts contain most kolanine, and Indian least ; and 
caffeine and theobromine are developed from it equivalent to one- 
fifth of its weight.30 Kola increases the power of endurance for 
mental and physical strain, or it removes the sense of fatigue 
after such strain, and it. enables the body to bear fatigue during 
prolonged fasting. The great stimulant and restorative effects are 
acknowledged by the medical faculty, but the opinion upon its 
secondary effects is not unanimous, some maintaining that it has 
no evil effect whatever, others that it has deleterious effects similar 
to narcotics. There is certainly a danger of creating a ' habit,' 
as with other stimulants, which should be guarded against. The 
stimulating effect is similar, but superior, to that of tea and coffee, 
being more enduring. It moderates the waste of the tissues, 
diminishes the elimination of nitrogen and phosphates, and checks 
rather than increases the action of the kidneys.^i Boa attributes 
the longer duration of stimulation by kola to the slower absorption 
of its active principles.^- 

The following modes of preparation are recommended : 

(a) Take a teaspoonful of kola powder, mix it evenly with a 
little cold water, add water to | pint, and boil it five minutes in 
an open pan ; pour it into a jug and allow five minutes for it to 
settle. 

(&) Kolaelixir^s • j^iuid extract of kola, 50 parts; glycerine, 60 
dilute alcohol, 60 ; Malaga wine, 500 ; simple syrup, 200 ; tincture 
of vanilla, 20 ; distilled water to make 1,000. Mix. Dose, a 
liqueur-glassful three or four times a day. 



262 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Kola is of value medicinally as a tonic and stimulant in 
debility, neurasthenia, and depressed states of the nervous 
system generally ; in alcoholism and morphinism ; diarrhoea 
of a chronic character ; migraine ; and as a heart stimulant in 
cases where digitalis is inadmissible, as fatty heart, fatty de- 
generation, dilatation, and bradycardia. 

Cocoa and chocolate are made of a paste from the bean of 
Theobroma cacao, N.O. Sterculiaceae, roasted, ground, and 
flavoured vpith cinnamon, vanilla, cloves, or other aromatic 
substances, and mixed with sugar. 

The cacao-tree is a native of Mexico and Columbia, where it 
grows wild, and in some places, as the banks of the Amazon, 
forms entire forests. It is, however, cultivated over a large 
portion of the tropics, and grows up to an elevation of 1,700 feet 
above sea-level. The finest qualities are grown in Central 
America (Brazil, Peru, Carracas, Guatemala, Venezuela, Granada, 
Guayaquil, Ecuador, Suranim) and in Trinidad and Ceylon ; 
but it is grown also in the West Indies, Madagascar, the 
Mauritius, the Philippines, Bourbon, and some parts of East 
India, Africa, and Australia. Humboldt found it growing freely 
in Carracas and Guatemala, and Linnyeus called it theobroma 
{diosfSpo/jia, the food of gods). It is an evergreen tree, growing 
15 to 30 feet high. The leaves are 18 to 20 inches long, bright 
green, and lanceolate. The flowers consist of five small yellow 
petals upon a rose-coloured calyx, and appear at all seasons, 
followed by fruit. The fruit is an elongated oval body, 7 to 
9 inches long and 3 to 4 broad, consisting of a thick, smooth 
rind, of yellow, red, or purple colour, enclosing five cavities, in 
which are the seeds or beans, whose total number is from twenty 
to forty, surrounded by a fibrous pulp. The rind gradually 
shrivels and dries up into a weak red or gray-brown shell, in 
which the seeds are loosely enclosed when they are ripe. The 
seeds are 2 to 2 '5 centimetres long and 1 co 1-5 centimetres 
broad. Although flowers and fruit occur at all seasons, two 
periods (May to June, October to November) are chiefly observed 
for gathering them. 

The ripe pods only are gathered, and are opened on the spot 
to remove the beans. The latter are taken to the sweating-house. 
' Sweating ' is a species of fermentation in which certain changes 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 



263 



take place. Fresh beans are of crimson colour, somewhat oily, 
and of disagreeable taste. They are put in barrels or boxes 
and covered with plantain-leaves in a close room from four to 
seven days. During this time their temperature rises to about 
140° F. Some water and GOg are given off, their colour changes 
from red to brown, they lose their disagreeable flavour, and 
develop the aromatic odour so highly prized in chocolate. They 
are then turned out, picked over, and rubbed to remove any 
fibrous pulp or foreign matter adhering to them. They are after- 
wards spread on a tray and covered with red earth for another 
day to complete the fermentation ; the red earth assists in 
absorbing moisture and mucilage, and gives to the beans a red 
colour. Finally they are again rubbed and spread upon trays to 
dry in the sun, care being taken that they are not shrivelled.'''^ 

In the manufacture of cocoa the after-process consists in 
roasting the beans by direct heat or high-pressure steam. They 
are transferred to a machine, which cracks the hard, thin skins or 
husks and removes them by ' winnowing.' The heat breaks the 
thin-walled polygonal cells of the kernels, and some of the fat is 
abstracted ; they are then reduced to a powder or paste, and 
mingled with starch, sugar, or other ingredients. 

The composition of commercial varieties of the bean is as follows : 
Fat, 42-0 to 57-4 per cent. ; theobromine, 0-63 to 2-20 ; starch, 
7-56 to 16-53 ; ash, 2-2 to S-lo.'^'" This is the result of the analysis 
of twenty-thi'ee trade brands, and the following table shows the 
composition of individual varieties i^*^ 

COMMBECIAL VaKIETIES OF CoCOA. 







i 

a 
3 




•a 






C3 


TS-g 


o 


6 


m m 


i 




Source. 




C3 
1-5 




-5 


C8 


13 



o-S 


O 




^1 


'5 


i 


Fat or cocoa 




























butter 


42 -1 


41-0 


4.5-4 


43-6 


43-3 


36-8 


44-1 


41-8 


50-9 


m-s 


37 -(5 


42-2 


42-9 


Theobromine 


1-OS 


0-93 


1-16 


0-85 


0-86 


1-13 


0-75 


0-95 


1-15 


0-76 


0-76 


1-0 


0-97 


Albuminoids 


7-5 


10-5 


9-25 


11-9 


10-1 


10-5 


9-7 


12-0 


7-8 


12-0 


12-3 


11-5 


10-5 


Glucose 


1-0 


1-2 


1-2 


1-3 


0-42 


2-7 


1-8 


1-4 


0-9 


1-6 


1-7 


1-0 


1-4 


Saccharose... 


O-ol 


0-35 


0-51 


0-32 


6-37 


1-5 


0-55 


0-28 


2-7 


0-46 


0-51 


1-3 


1-2 


starch 


7'5 


3-6 


5-1 


4-9 


1-5 


3-8 


6-2 


5-7 


3-5 


1-3.5 


6-0 


1-6 


4-2 


Lignine 


7-8 


3-9 


6-1 


5-6 


4-6 


3-2 


5-5 


5-8 


6-4 


5-9 


9-0 


7-1 


5-9 


Cellulose . . . 


13-8 


16-2 


13-8 


13-0 


14-0 


16-3 


13-4 


19-6 


12-5 


11-3 


11-6 


17-3 


14-4 


Extractive... 


8-9 


18-5 


8-9 


8-3 


9-0 


12-7 


9-7 


5-8 


9-2 


9-0 


9-2 


6-7 


9-3 


Moisture ... 


5-9 


5-5 


5-1 


6-3 


5-9 


6-li 


5-2 


2-6 


1-5 


5-8 


5-6 


5-6 


5-1 


Ash 


3-6 


3-0 


3-3 


3-6 


3-7 


4-3 


2-7 


3'7 


3-0 


4-1 


5-0 


4-1 


3-7 



264 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The fat or cocoa butter, oil of theobroma, is a hard, fatty 
substance of yellowish- white colour, having the odour and taste 
of cocoa. It melts at 29° or 30° C, and consists of cocoa- 
stearin, with a little olein and palmitin and traces of lauric and 
arachic acids. It does not become rancid on keeping if it is pure. 
Commercially it is sold for many purposes, and is sometimes 
adulterated with tallow, paraffin-wax, and other substances.^' 
Theobromine can be obtained from cocoa by treatment with lime 
and alcohol. The natural starch in cocoa consists of exceedingly 
small granules, nearly spherical, and having a small central 
distinct hilum, which is usually surrounded by one or two circular 
lines. The hilum may be simple, straight, curved, fissured, or 
stellate ; otherwise the granules are smooth and unmarked, but 
are sometimes triple or quadruple. They are distinguished from 
rice or other starch, which is sometimes mixed with commercial 
cocoa, by their spherical shape and smaller size. The granules 
of nearly all commercial starches are larger than those of cocoa, 
which renders their recognition under the microscope easy when 
used for adulteration. ^^ 

Cocoa, by reason of its composition, is a nutritious food, and, 
although not so stimulating, it is more sustaining than tea or 
coffee. In prepared cocoa more than half the proteid is digested 
and most of the fat is absorbed. ^-^ In its natural condition cocoa 
is somewhat indigestible, being too rich in fat. It must be 
properly prepared to make it acceptable to the stomach, for 
which purpose it is roasted and ground and the quantity of fat 
reduced. To reduce the proportion of fat, (a) the roasted and 
ground cocoa is mixed with starch and sugar, or (b) before 
grinding the cocoa it is heated and a varying proportion of fat 
removed by pressure. In the former method it is obvious that 
no fat is removed, but the cocoa is clilutecl. Many commercial 
cocoas formerly consisted of starch and sugar flavoured with 
cocoa. The latter method is the best, and probably most in use 
at the present time. By this means from 40 to 75 per cent, of 
the oil can be removed, which is not objected to by most people, 
as they dislike greasy cocoa ; and the nourishing and stimulating 
properties are allowed to remain, and are somewhat concen- 
trated. One popular form of prepared cocoa contains — fat, 
28-12 per cent, ; theobromine, 0-95 ; natural starch, sugar, and 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 265 

fibre, 40-85 ; albuminoids, 21-34 (including 6-61 soluble and 14-73 
insoluble); minerals, 4-94 ; moisture, 3-80 ; total, 100 per cent.^o 
In the natural cocoa the fat varies from 42 to 57 per cent. ; but 
a well-prepared cocoa should contain only 30 to 35 per cent., 
about J to h having been removed. If the amount of fat in a 
sample is very small, there is a danger that such a low percentage 
may be due to dilution instead of abstraction. The Society of 
Analysts fixed 20 per cent, as the minimum of fat which pre- 
pared cocoa should contain. Some prepared cocoas are very 
much diluted with starch and sugar. These adulterations are 
not injurious, but the cocoa contains less of the essential pro- 
perties, and is therefore less stimulating and invigorating. In 
such preparations the natural fat is not reduced in amount, and 
it is necessary to add some kind of alkali, such as soda, potash, 
or ammonia, to saponify the fat, thereby reducing greasiness, 
darkening the colour, and apparently increasing the strength of 
the cocoa. Arrowroot and potato starch are very commonly 
used as diluents, and their presence can be recognised under the 
microscope ; and various colouring matters have been added, 
such as Venetian red, umber, peroxide of iron, and even brick- 
dust. 

Cocoa nibs consist of the seeds simply removed from the husks, 
crushed, and roasted. Flake cocoa is made of the nibs ground in 
a particular way. 

Chocolate consists of the roasted and sweated beans, from 
which most of the fat is exhausted, mingled with various 
flavouring agents, as vanilla, musk, cinnamon, cloves, and 
almond. Usually the cocoa nibs are ground in a heated mill 
until the fat is extracted, and the residue is mingled while soft 
with 25 per cent, of sugar, and 5 to 10 of sweet almond, 1 or 1-5 
of vanilla, 0-5 of cinnamon, and 0-2 of cloves. The sugar and 
flavourings vary in the best chocolate, and this constitutes the 
main difference in good samples. The paste in the interior of 
chocolate creams consists of sugar, gum, starch, condensed milk, 
and other things, which do not detract from their value. Many 
inferior chocolates are made from which cocoa is practically 
absent, the paste consisting of the powdered husks and sugar, 
sometimes coloured, and the odour and flavour of chocolate 
is increased by an ingenious mixture of cocoa fat. 



266 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Vanilla, which is so largely used in the manufacture of cocoa 
and chocolate, is the fruit of Vanilla aromatica et planifolia, 
N.O. Orchidaceas. Native in Brazil, and grown in many places 
where cocoa is cultivated. It grows upon cocoa and other trees 
to a height of 15 to 25 feet. The leaves are thick and fleshy. 

Coca, the leaves of ErythroxTjlon coca, N.O. Erythroxylaceae. 
A South American plant, grown largely on the Andes of 
Bolivia and Peru. The annual consumption in South America 
is said to exceed 100,000,000 pounds. It has been an incal- 
culable blessing to the natives in all ages. Its physiological 
action places it in the same category as tea and coffee, but its 
effects are more strongly marked. Its power of preventing 
fatigue or of removing it has been well established. Sir E. 
Christison made many experiments with it.^^ He found during 
great exertion that fatigue was lessened and hunger and thirst 
prevented by it, and the mental faculties were liberated from the 
dulness and drowsiness which follow great bodily activity ; that 
the waste of the tissues was lessened by its use, although it did 
not diminish perspiration, nor were the digestive functions im- 
paired by its use. The South American usually consumes coca 
by chewing it with a trace of lime or chalk. Its effects are 
those of a stimulant and restorative ; while quickening the heart 
and respiration, it prevents muscular and nervous exhaustion 
and diminishes the consumption of the bodily tissues, and enables 
a person to bear up against bodily fatigue with less food than 
usual, or even without any. It enables persons to climb high moun- 
tains without the difficulty of breathing customary in ascending 
from a low to a higher plane. The mental faculties are, however, 
said to be less stimulated by coca than by tea or coffee. 

Composition, — Coca-leaves contain 02 per cent, of cocaine 
(Ci;H._,jNO^), an alkaloid occurring in colourless monoclinic 
prisms, having a bitter taste, which is followed by a tingling 
sensation and numbness ; secondary alkaloids are ecgonine and 
Iso-atropyl cocaine ; it also contains hygrin, which gives 
aromatic properties to the leaf, together with coca-tannin and 
coca wax." 

The physiological effects of coca are due to the alkaloids, and 
are analogous to those of tea and coffee. It may therefore be 
used in the form of an infusion, wine, or elixir, as a general 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 267 

stimulant to diminish or remove the exhaustion due to muscular 
exertion and mental fatigue from overwork, worry or trouble, 
and in convalescence, nerve exhaustion, neurasthenia, nervous 
and muscular debility ; it may also be usefully employed in cases 
of insomnia, in gastric and intestinal indigestion, in which food 
is not properly assimilated, in cachectic conditions due to many 
diseases and blood poisons, and to combat the effects of opium 
and alcohol. As in the use of other stimulants, a habit may be 
formed which is comparable in its results with the worst moral 
effects of opium-eating, morphinism, or alcoholism ; but these 
cases are ra.re, except when cocaine is taken hypodermically for 
long periods and in excessive doses. Even chewing the leaf in 
excess will bring on various disorders, and the desire for it 
increases to such an extent with indulgence that a confirmed 
coca-chewer is said to be never cured.''-^ Of the alkaloids, iso- 
atropyl cocaine is a powerful heart poison, and cocaine will in 
time not only benumb the cerebral faculties, but reduce the 
subject to a state of complete mental imbecility, unable alike to 
perform his professional or social duties, and more or less unfitted 
for the companionship of his fellows. It is a good servant, but a 
bad master ! The increasing use of cocaine in the treatment of 
disease points to the necessity for care in prescribing it. ' A 
delicious beatitude' follows its application for hay-fever and 
other diseases, which has a tendency to make the patient a slave 
to the habit. Symptoms due to the habit usually begin with 
disorders of digestion, as loss of appetite and emaciation. But 
its chief pathological effect is, as indicated, upon the nervous 
system, in which some form of degeneration takes place which 
induces insomnia, tremors, inco-ordination ; even convulsions, 
paralysis, hallucinations or delusions, and delirium or insanity, 
may follow. ^^ It behoves all medical men to be extremely careful 
how and for whom they prescribe it, and to take especial care 
that the patient does not have a free hand in its use. 

An agreeable coca essence or cordial may be made like an 
ordinary tincture by macerating 2^ ounces of the leaves in 1 pint 
of proof spirit, with the addition of ginger, cloves, allspice, or 
other aromatics ; two teaspoonfuls added to a tumblerful of 
warm sweetened water makes a good beverage for ail times of the 
year. 



268 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Coca wine may be made thus : Soak 4 ounces of ground coca- 
leaves in 16 ounces of hot water for three hours ; then add 
64 ounces of port wine ; percolate 56 ounces ; and in it dissolve 
the sugar, add 6 ounces of alcohol, strain, and make up to 
64 ounces with port wine. Each ounce represents 30 grains of 
leaves. 

Opium is the juice of the unripe capsules of the white poppy, 
Papaver somniferum, N.O. Papaveraceae ; it is obtained by the 
incision of the capsules, when the milky juice exudes and dries 
by evaporation from exposure to the air and sun. Opium is 
imported from the Levant as Turkey or Smyrna opium ; from 
Constantinople, a variety inferior to the former ; from Egypt, 
Persia, and India ; and some is also made in France and 
England. It consists of round, flattened, irregulai', soft or putty- 
like masses of reddish-brown colour, with a bitter taste and 
characteristic odour ; and the variety from each country has 
peculiarities by which it is known commercially. 

Opium is a complex substance, containing no less than twelve 
alkaloids, two organic acids, resin, gum, extractive and odorous 
matters, besides other constituents of plants. The most im- 
portant alkaloid is morphine, which forms 7 per cent, in inferior 
varieties and 10 or 12 per cent, of good Smyrna opium. The 
action of opium depends chiefly on morphine, which has a 
sedative influence on the brain and nervous system, relieves 
pain, and produces sleep ; codeine, thebaine, and other alkaloids, 
may, however, cause convulsions, and so exceed the sedative 
effect ; but these are points which need not be considered 
here. 

As a narcotic stimulant it is used enormously by all Oriental 
races. It produces an intoxication which is said to transcend the 
excitement due to alcohol, in the feeling of exaltation, the sense 
of happiness and comfort, the brilliance of the imagination, and 
the increase of mental vigour. This is not unalloyed, for the ideas 
usually become grotesque, extravagant, unreal, and dreamy ; 
exaltation is followed by great depression, the nerve centres are 
dulled, the mental faculties blunted, the consumer becomes 
lethargic, apathetic, and, if the dose is large enough, falls into a 
deep sleep." It is smoked in a pipe, chewed, taken in pills, 
laudanum, and as morphine. Its excessive use in India has 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 269 

caused many attempts to reduce its production or the means of 
obtaining it. In Europe its consumption by eating or smoking 
is not common ; but isolated instances occur, and morphinomania 
is not rare. The consumption of opium in the fen or malarial 
districts, fostered by its curative powers in intermittent and other 
fevers, was formerly great. The habitual opium or morphine 
taker is generally unreliable ; his moral faculties are more or less 
depraved, his mental capacity, except when under the influence 
of the drug, dull and torpid. It deranges digestion, causes a 
deficiency in the biliary and glycogenic functions of the liver, 
and suppresses other glandular secretions ; metabolic activity 
is reduced, respiratory movements weakened, and the general 
blood-pressure lowered." Altogether, the confirmed opium-taker 
or morphinomaniac is a miserable specimen of humanity. 

Haschish, bhang, or Indian hemp, consists of the green tops, 
including the flowers and fruit, of the female plant Gannahis 
sativa, N.O. Cannabinaceae. It is extensively used in the East, 
Haschish is the Arabian name given to the dried tops of the 
plant grown in Egypt, and gathered before the seeds come to 
maturity ; used throughout Turkey and Persia. Gunjah is the 
chief Indian form, consisting of the dried tops of cannabis, sold 
in the bazaars for smoking ; it is in compressed, rough, dusky- 
green masses, containing the flowers, fruit, and smaller leaves ; 
of an agreeable narcotic odour, resinous, and adhesive to the 
touch. Bhang is also an Indian preparation, consisting of the 
larger leaves and capsules ; it is the cheapest form, used for 
smoking, chewing, making an intoxicating drink, and con- 
fections. Majoon is a confection or sweetmeat of green 
colour, consisting of cannabis or bhang compressed into small 
cakes, 4"* 

Cannabis indica contains an amorphous resin in abundance, an 
active principle cannabinon, a glucoside cannabin, two or more 
alkaloids, and cannabene, a volatile oil. 

The natives of the Turkish Empire are more addicted to the 
use of haschish than of opium. The effect is similar in many 
respects, but haschish is preferred ; they smoke the dried leaves, 
or make it into a cake, or mix it with tobacco and smoke it in a 
hookah ; they likewise drink the expressed juice, or make a 
beverage of it,^^^ The hookah is in general use among the 



270 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Mohammedans ; both sexes smoke it, and children learn its use 
at an early age. 

The general effects may be stated to be exhilaration, intoxica- 
tion, and hallucination. Exaltation is the primary effect, with 
ideas of grandeur and magnificence, wealth and luxury, and 
other hallucinations ; the consumer loses his personality, becomes 
some exalted person in some place other than he is, hears and 
sees things which exist only in his imagination, and has many 
other pleasurable ideas and feelings worthy of a place in the 
' Arabian Nights ' or other works of imagination.-*^ The individual 
afterwards becomes deliriously noisy or falls asleep. The after- 
effects are by no means as pleasurable. The exaltation and 
intoxication are due to cannabinon, the succeeding muscular ex- 
citability and delirium to tetano-cannabine, which is a convulsant 
(Bruce). Persons unaccustomed to it are sometimes maniacally 
excited even to violence, and have redness and inflammation of 
the eyes. The use of this narcotic cannot, therefore, be counte- 
nanced as a useful article any more than opium, and should be 
discouraged whenever it is met with. Its value and effects as a 
drug have no place in a volume of this character. 

Betel is a species of pepper, Charica betle, N.O. Piperaceae, 
and is another stimulant narcotic, the consumption of which is 
carried on to an incredible extent in the East. The leaves of 
the plant, with a small piece of the nut and a little lime, are 
masticated; the taste is hot, acrid, astringent, and aromatic ; it 
tinges the saliva red and stains the teeth ; it is consumed by 
both sexes as a stimulant, and it produces a feeling of exhilara- 
tion and endurance of fatigue. 

Ginseng (Panax, N.O. Araliacese) is much used as a chewing 
material, and is supposed to have mild stimulant properties ; it 
is much used and praised by the Chinese, who have called it 
' the pure spirit of the earth.' There are two species, the true 
ginseng (P. schinseng), which grows in Northern Asia, and an 
American species (P. quinquefolium) , which is largely imported 
into China. The root is wrinkled, yellowish-white, has a sweetish 
aromatic, slightly bitter taste, and feeble odour ; it is similar to 
liquorice-root; is rich in gum, starch, and sugar, and also has a 
little resin and an essential oil. It is demulcent, feebly tonic, 
and slightly stimulant ; it is used regularly by many people, and 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 271 

is administered for many ailments, but its extraordinary virtues 
only exist in the minds of the Chinese. 

Tobacco (Nicotiana tahacum, N.O. Solanaceae). According to 
modern statistics, the average consumption of tobacco per annum 
by each inhabitant is as follows : Netherlands, 3,400 grammes ; 
United States, 2,110; Belgium, 1,552 ; Germany, 1,485; Australia, 
1,400; Austria and Hungary, 1,350; Norway, 1,335; Denmark, 
1,125 ; Canada, 1,050 ; Sweden, 940 ; France, 933 ; Eussia, 910 ; 
Portugal, 850 ; England, 680 ; Italy, 635 ; Switzerland, 610 ; and 
Spain, 550 {Medical Becord, December 21, 1901). 

Tobacco is a poison in every form in which it is used ; but use 
inures the individual to its effects, as it does to those of opium 
and other narcotics. The active principle is nicotine (Ck^Hj^Nj.^), 
an acrid, oily, volatile liquid, of pale amber colour, smelling 
strongly of tobacco ; it can be resolved into nicotina, an alkaloid 
in the form of malates and citrates ; and nicotianine, or tobacco 
camphor, which is a concrete volatile oil. There are other 
principles besides nicotine in tobacco. Pictet and Eotschy'^'^ 
extracted from 10 kilos of crude tobacco juice 1,000 grammes of 
nicotine, 20 grammes of nicoteine, 5 grammes of nicotinine, and 
1 gramme of nicotelline, from which it is evident that nicotine is 
the principal agent, although the others probably have deleterious 
effects or become decomposed into secondary substances. The 
proportion of nicotine varies according to place of growth, soil, 
and other circumstances. French tobacco contains as much as 
7 or 8 per cent., Kentucky and Virginia 6 or 7, Havanna not 
more than 2 per cent. Sinnbold's analyses give the following 
results : European cigars contain 0-648 to 2*967 per cent, of 
nicotine ; Havanna cigars, 0'841 to 2-241 ; cigarette tobacco, 
0-801 to 2-887 ; and pipe tobacco, 0-518 to 1-584.-'' 

The physiological effects of tobacco are — (a) short stimulation 
of the central nervous system, followed by depression ; (b) similar 
stimulation of the sympathetic nerves, followed by a lasting 
paralysis ; (c) an action, like that of curare, on the terminal 
nerve-plates of the motor nerves in the muscles, also followed by 
paralysis. The heart is at first slowed and its contraction pro- 
longed ; the blood-pressure is raised by constriction of the 
arterioles, due to excitation of the vaso-motor centres in the 
peripheral ganglia ; at a certain stage, however, this system is 



272 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

paralyzed and the blood-pressure is no longer affected by it ; 
motor paralysis is induced by its action on the intramuscular 
part of the nerves. ^^ Other effects are trembling, giddiness, head- 
ache,'*^ salivation, contraction of the pupils, convulsions, paralysis, 
etc.^^' That nicotine, the oily fluid containing the two alkaloids, is 
a powerful poison cannot be denied. The active principle in the 
smoke of a single cigar suffices to produce convulsions, paralysis, 
and death in a frog. A drop of nicotine near the beak of a canary 
will kill it ; two drops on the tongue will kill a terrier dog in 
a minute ; two drops on the tongue of a cat caused convulsions 
and death in two minutes ; and a mastiff dog was destroyed in 
five minutes by the application of ten drops in the same manner. 
Death was always preceded in cases seen by the author by con- 
vulsions of a tonic character, and rigor mortis set in at once. In 
man, death has followed the injudicious application of a quid of 
tobacco to stop the bleeding of a wound ; the application of 
nicotine on the point of a needle to a decayed tooth caused serious 
collapse, and the use of an infusion of tobacco as an external 
application in skin diseases, and an injection into the bowels for 
intestinal obstruction, have caused death; on the other hand, 
recovery is recorded after the injection of an infusion made from 
half an ounce of snuff and an infusion made from five tobacco- 
leaves. 

The symptoms of acute nicotine-poisoning are observed when 
a person smokes a pipe or cigar for the first time ; there is con- 
fusion of the mind, giddiness, nausea, vomiting or purging, 
trembling of the limbs, faintness, feeble pulse, and a cold clammy 
sweat, which are the signs of shock or collapse as the result of a 
profound impression on the nervous and muscular systems. These 
symptoms have been observed in a man who was induced to chew 
a piece of ' twist tobacco ' to relieve him of toothache. When the 
dose is a large one, the breathing becomes difficult, the vision 
dim, and convulsions occur ; death, preceded by more or less 
paralysis, may take place in fifteen to thirty minutes from tobacco, 
or in three or four minutes from the use of nicotine. 

By custom, most people become inured to the influence of 
nicotine in tobacco-smoking, snuffing, or chewing. The moderate 
use of tobacco has a soothing and beneficial effect upon the nervous 
system of the man of business ; ' it soothes and cheers the weary 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 273 

toiler and solaces the overworked brain '; that it has a stimulating 
effect upon the cerebral functions can scarcely be conceded, 
although it temporarily increases the flow of blood through the 
cerebral arteries and may thereby spur a weary brain, and by the 
free supply of oxygen and food assist that organ in its work. 
Many men of great intellect have been large smokers. In like 
manner, the after-dinner pipe or cigar aids digestion by increasing 
gastric secretion and peristalsis, and has a hygienic effect in 
stimulating the corresponding intestinal movements. 

The effects of excessive use of tobacco, or chronic nicotine- 
poisoning, are best understood by reference to its physiological 
action. The most immediate effect of tobacco or nicotine in any 
form is to make the heart beat slower, but more powerfully ; this 
is followed by an acceleration of the heart's pulsations by 30 to 
50 per cent., due to the influence of nicotine upon the cardiac 
branches of the pneumogastric nerve. Nicotine suppresses or 
paralyzes the inhibitory fibres of that nerve, and there is conse- 
quently an acceleration of the action of the heart. It also 
paralyzes the sympathetic ganglia and prevents the passage of 
impulses through them, and consequently the vasomotor nerves 
are paralyzed. Interference with the functions of the vasomotor 
nerves, especially those in the abdomen, causes dilatation of the 
arterial system and lowering of the blood-pressure. The vertigo, 
dizziness, and trembling are, in the first instance, a consequence 
of diminished supply of blood to the brain, and later of the toxic 
effects of nicotine on the nerve cells. The effect of a pipe of 
tobacco on the stomach is chiefly due to its influence upon the 
nerves ; the inhibitory fibres of the vagus being suppressed, the 
gastric mucous membrane becomes flushed with blood owing to 
vascular dilatation, the secretion of the gastric juice takes place 
with greater rapidity, and the peristaltic movements are acceler- 
ated ; intestinal movement and secretion are likewise increased. 
But excessive and long-continued use of tobacco causes the gastric 
and intestinal secretions to be diminished and the peristaltic 
movements to be slower and feebler ; it enfeebles the nerves of 
the ganglionic system, secretion and movement are slower, the 
mucous membrane of the mouth and throat gets dry, the throat 
inflamed, thirst becomes great, appetite fails, dyspepsia or gastric 
catarrh appears, and nutrition is impeded. 

18 



274 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Nicotine is a cardio-vascular poison acting through the nerves 
upon the muscular tissue. The influence of excessive smoking on 
the heart consists of an increase of the excitability of that organ ; 
the pulse becomes intermittent and irregular, periods of accelera- 
tion are folloveed by enfeeblement of its action. In some cases it 
causes abnormal quickening or tachycardia ; in others, abnormal 
slowing or bradycardia. Functional derangements of the heart 
and digestive organs are common results, and organic changes 
sometimes occur in the nervous system, where it influences the 
circulation unfavourably and leads to degeneration and paralysis of 
nerve cells. One of the effects of ciironic tobacco-poisoning is 
shown by angemia of the brain, resulting in dizziness and vertigo 
on rising from a bed or chair, and enfeeblement of memory and 
power of concentration of thought. Further deleterious effects 
on nerve tissue are shown by general nervous debility ; by tachy- 
cardia, as the result of paralysis of the vagus, or bradycardia, from 
degeneration or paralysis of the ganglia ; by defects of vision, as 
amblyopia or amaurosis and paralysis of the portio dura, which 
are due to the exhibition of small doses of the poison frequently 
absorbed and acting over a lengthened period. 

Much discussion has taken place as to what produces the 
harmful effects of smoking tobacco. Some writers assert that 
nicotine does not, and others that it does, exist in the smoke ; 
that pyridine and other products of its decomposition during 
combustion produce the injury. Pontag gives the following com- 
position of tobacco smoke : Hydrocyanic acid, 0'080 per cent. ; 
pyridine, O'l-iG ; nicotine, 1-165 ; ammonia, 0'360 ; carbon mon- 
oxide, 410 c.c. from 100 grammes of tobacco. ^^ Thorns says 
tobacco smoke contains nicotine and its decomposition products, 
pyridine and its homologues, and a peculiar ethereal oil only pro- 
duced during the combustion of the tobacco. ^'^ He states that this 
oil causes violent headache, trembling, and giddiness, and he 
attributes the toxic effects of tobacco to it, since it is known that 
they do not depend altogether on nicotine. The quantity of carbon 
monoxide is too small to have any effect on the health. ^'^ Brunton 
states that pyridine acts chiefly on the sensory nerves ; that small 
doses stimulate, but large ones have a paralyzing effect on, the 
heart muscle.^^ Nicotianine, the so-called tobacco camphor, is a 
mixture of nicotine valerianate, camphorate, oxy-camphorate, and 



STIMULANTS AND NAKCOTICS 275 

pyridyl-carbonate ; and nicotine-pyridyl-carbonate is the most 
highly toxic principle of tobacco, the other salts chiefly imparting 
fragrant characters to it.^^ The influence of the frequent inhala- 
tion of carbon monoxide upon the blood, which is ordinarily 
injurious, should not be overlooked ; but WahP*^ says it is so highly 
diluted that it may be breathed for four hours without ill results. 
Arsenic is known to exist in some kinds of tobacco, and being 
volatile can be detected in the smoke, and may have an injurious 
effect upon the smoker. Smoking a pipe is healthier than cigars 
or cigarettes ; some of the carbon adheres to the pipe and forms 
a cake which absorbs a portion of the nicotine, and a plug of ashes 
and tobacco at the bottom of the bowl adds to the absorbent 
power. An oleaginous extract containing nicotine is deposited 
along the tube. The longer the pipe the less nicotine will there 
be in the smoke, and it has the advantage of being cooler and con- 
sequently less irritating to the mouth and throat. A hookah, with 
its bowl of rose-water through which the smoke is drawn, is as 
much superior to a pipe as the latter is to a cigar or cigarette. 
The pipe-smoker gets only half of the nicotine originally in the 
tobacco, while that in the smoke is only in contact with the 
mouth a short space of time. On the other hand, when smoking 
a cigar, the leaf is held constantly in the mouth, an infusion of 
tobacco is formed, and a considerable portion of the nicotine may 
be swallowed. In cigarette-smoking there is the additional tempta- 
tion to inhale the smoke, which increases its injurious effects. 

There can be no doubt whatever that the moderate consumption 
of tobacco, two or three pipes a day, is not injurious to the 
majority of smokers ; that it acts as a powerful sedative, soothing 
the brain and assisting in the concentration of thought ; that the 
after-dinner pipe aids digestion and the action of the bowels and 
kidneys ; but it adds no potential strength to the body, is not 
a food, does not spare the tissues, and its action is destructive 
rather than constructive. In excess, its influence upon the diges- 
tive organs, heart, brain, and nerves, indicate its powerful dele- 
terious effects. Very many people have no idea that tobacco is 
capable of producing ill effects; in others a habit of excessive 
smoking is formed which is most diflicult to break. It is advisable 
never to form such a habit ; in all cases the lightest and mildest 
tobaccos are the best, and a limit of 2 ounces per week is 

18—2 



276 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

a moderate allowance, beyond which it is not safe to indulge. 
The anti-smoker tells of cases of sudden heart failure, loss of 
memory, dwarfed growth, and early death attributed to smoking. 
Ardent smokers point to the hale and hearty old man who has 
smoked for fifty or sixty years, and attributes his health and 
longevity to it. Both have arguments in their favour ; but the 
anti-smoker is prone to exaggerate, and the hearty old man does 
little justice to his sound constitution when he attributes his 
health and longevity to it. A well-known tobacco manu- 
facturer says that tobacco is injurious in nine cases out of 
ten ; but this he attributes to the large consumption of inferior 
kinds of tobacco, and he states that sufdciont attention is not paid 
to the growth and blending of the leaf, to the soil on which it is 
grown, nor to the paper of which cigarettes are made. The best 
tobaccos are grown on virgin soil ; the best cigarettes made with 
pure rice-paper. Many inferior tobaccos are used by mixing them 
with a better class of leaves ; the colour is little to go by, as some 
leaves are blanched, others darkened by chemicals or colouring 
agents. Tobacco Leaf, which is a trade journal, says too much 
attention should not be paid to the outside of a cigar ; a light- 
coloured cigar is not necessarily a mild one, nor a dark-coloured 
one a strong cigar ; avoid greasy or streaky leaves, which contain 
an excess of nicotine, and pale yelloio ones, which contain too 
little and are flavourless ; unripe tobacco leaves are nauseous to 
the taste and have greenish blotches. Tobacco is neither better 
nor worse for being spotted. The ash should always be white or 
gray, never black or uneven. Good tobacco burns freely until it 
reaches the mid-rib or vein across a leaf, will never scorch or 
blister ; it is an infallible proof of a had cigar, made from inferior 
tobacco, if it shows a black rim or blister near the ash or if it 
goes out as soon as the light is withdrawn. Take off the outside 
cover of a cigar and apply a light to it ; in a good cigar it will 
burn, but in a bad cigar made of inferior tobacco it will not take 
fire. 

When one considers the enormous growth of the cigarette trade, 
and the almost incalculable number of cigarettes consumed 
annually, the consideration of their use becomes an important 
sanitary question. One has only to observe the pale face, the 
marble brow, the haggard and dwarfed appearance of boys who 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 277 

indulge the habit freely to conclude that cigarette-smoking is 
decidedly injurious. This is, to some extent, due to the inferior 
tobacco from which so many of them are made ; the commonest 
of tobaccos, frequently chemically treated and mingled with 
tobacco dust, are rolled in impure papers to make cheap cigar- 
ettes. The evil effects of cigarette-smoking are greatly enhanced 
by inhaling the smoke ; that it really is inhaled is proved by the 
fact that very little smoke is exhaled. The fact that the smoke 
of a cigarette is not very irritating does not lessen the evil effect 
of drawing it into the lungs, for by this method the absorption of 
the poisonous principles is more rapid. Some absorption takes 
place in the mouth, but it is trifling in comparison with that 
which takes place in the lungs. It is admitted that moderate 
smoking allays restlessness and irritability and is slightly bene- 
ficial in other respects ; but the sequel to the habit of inhalation 
may be very bad indeed, the heart and nerves bearing chiefly the 
efiects of it. The fumes likewise appear to create an unnatural 
desire to be always smoking cigarettes, and those who indulge 
the habit generally consume more tobacco than they would by 
smoking a pipe, and the consumption is greater than is necessary 
for the ordinary enjoyment to be obtained from smoking. The 
habit should therefore be discountenanced by all medical men and 
others who have the interest of the human race at heart. Eepres- 
sive measures are required to stop the practice of cigarette- 
smoking by children, for it is firmly believed that it prevents 
growth and renders its devotees a ready prey to disease. It not 
only makes them tired, lazy, and irritable, but it lowers their 
mental capacity and moral tone, makes them stupid, dull and 
weak, and prone to lying and cheating. Attempts are being made 
in America, Canada, Prince Edward's Island, and Norway, to 
suppress the habit by law ; in some places it is a misdemeanour 
to sell or give cigarettes to a minor, and in others it is unlawful 
for a minor to smoke tobacco in any form. 

ALCOHOL. 

Alcohol is the principal product of vinous fermentation, and 
continues to be produced in a fermented liquid until the saccharine 
principles are exhausted, or the proportion of alcohol is such as 
to arrest further change. 



278 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Absolute alcohol, chemically known as ethyl alcohol (C.,H^,p), 
or ethyl hydroxide (C^H.^[OH]), is a transparent, colourless, mobile 
liquid, specific gravity 0-795, of pleasant ethereal odour, very 
hygroscopic, mixing with water in all proportions. Pure alcohol 
burns with a white fiame, but it is seldom bought quite pure ; 
and if it contains any water it burns with a blue flame. It usually 
consists of 93 to 95 per cent, of alcohol and 5 to 7 of water, 
which is called pure spirit of wine. It evaporates without residue, 
is of neutral reaction, and presents no cloudy appearance when 
mixed with water. 

Eectified spirit of wine of commerce contains 90 per cent, of 
alcohol, has a specific gravity of 0"825, is colourless, neutral, 
burns with a blue flame, evaporates without residue, and should 
be free from other kinds of alcohol. Spirits of wine containing 
70 per cent, alcohol has a specific gravity of O'BBO. 

Proof-spirit or neutral spirit of commerce is alcohol and water 
in about equal proportions. It contains 49-3 per cent, by weight 
and 57 •! per cent, by volume of alcohol, and is defined by 
Act of Parliament as ' being such as shall weigh if of an equal 
quantity of distilled water.' The terms ' proof,' ' under proof,' and 
'over proof are well known. Thus, 50 U.P. means 50 under 
proof, and is equal to 50 parts of water and 50 parts of proof-spirit ; 
60 U.P. means 60 parts of water and 40 of proof-spirit. On the 
other hand, 50 O.P. , or over proof, means that 50 parts of water 
would be required to be added to 100 of the spirit to bring it 
down to proof strength. Spirits are regulated by i)roof strength ; 
thus a publican or other salesman reducing the strength of 
whisky, brandy, or rum to more than 25 degrees under proof 
would be liable to a heavy fine under the provisions of the Sale 
of Food and Drugs Act, 1879. '■= 

Alcohol, or ethyl alcohol, is produced by the fermentation of 
liquids containing sugar, starch, or glycerine, but under favour- 
able conditions various higher alcohols (propyl, butyl, amyl, 

* The percentage of alcohol in a liquid is determined by taking the specific 
gravity of the liquid at a known temperature. Thus, if a liquid at 15 5° he found 
to have specific gravity 0'8605, it will contain 75 per cent, by weight of alcohol. 
Tables are published which show these particulars, and are handy for use. Proof- 
spirit is taken as the standard. To determine the percentage of alcohol in wine, 
ale, etc., the liquid is distilled until one-third has passed over. The distillate 
contains all the alcohol, and when diluted to its original bulk with water it is 
tested for its specific gravity, and the alcohol is then determined from that. 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 279 

hexyl, and heptyl alcohols), usually classed as fusel oil, are also 
produced. Many spirits derived from grain, oats, rye, barley, 
also contain furfurol. This is a volatile oil (C.H^Oo), soluble in 
alcohol, ether, and even water, having an odour somewhat 
resembling bitter almonds. It is colourless, but turns yellow or 
brownish on exposure to light, ^' and is held to be responsible for 
some of the ill effects of alcohol.^'^ When solutions containing 
glucose (C,;IIj.,0^;) remain in contact with the air, they ferment, 
become turbid, and give off carbonic acid gas. After a time the 
whole of the sugar is tranformed into alcohol, glycerine, succinic 
acid, and the higher alcohols. Cane-sugar and milk-sugar also 
become fermented, but they must first be inverted or hydrolized. 
Every organism which has the power of assimilating cane-sugar 
produces an enzyme called invertase, by which the sugar is first 
inverted to glucose or dextrose and Isevulose.'''' The substances 
used for the production of good spirits are malted and unmalted 
barley ; but other grains are used, as rye, rice, and maize, and 
also potatoes, mangolds, beet-root and turnips. For ale and beer 
the saccharine substance is derived from malt, glucose, invert- 
sugar, caramel, etc. 

Fermentation. — The formation of alcohol in saccharine liquids 
is due to the metabolic activity of the yeast plant, Toritla cerevisicB 
or saccharomyces, a low-formed organism belonging to the fungi. 
It grows naturally upon grapes and some other fruits, and is the 
principle in brewer's yeast which causes fermentation. The 
plant is of microscopic size, consisting of round or oval cells 
containing granular protoplasm, usually occurring together two 
by two, or in groups of five or seven. They are about ^io niilii- 
metre in diameter. Their propagation under ordinary circum- 
stances is by budding ; but under certain conditions, as absence 
of sufficient food or a suitable nidus for growth, spores are 
formed, usually four in each cell. As the cell dries up the spores 
are liberated, and carried hither and thither by currents of air, 
to develop and propagate by budding when they alight upon 
material containing saccharine principles.*"' 

The cells of yeast contain certain proteid substances, besides 
nuclein, leucin, tyrosin, cellulose, some hydrocarbon, and phos- 
phates of soda, lime, potash, and magnesia. The high proportion 
of albuminoid constituents, phosphates, and other valuable salts, 



280 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

has induced chemists to prepare from yeast certain foods of value 
in diabetes, scurvy, and other disorders. 

The protoplasmic yeast cells multiply with enormous rapidity 
in all saccharine solutions of moderate temperature — 68° to 86° F. 
The plant lives on the sugar, converts it to its own physiological 
uses, and during its metabolism produces mainly alcohol and 
carbonic acid gas with evolution of heat. It assimilates sugar in 
one form and excretes it in another. Cane-sugar, C,,H,oO.= 
alcohol, SC^HgO + SCO,,, carbonic acid. The cells contain a small 
proportion of the enzyme, invertase, by which cane-sugar or 
sucrose is converted into glucose before it becomes alcohol. 
Pasteur and Gay Lussac found that 100 parts of sugar become 
105 '26 of glucose, which in fermentation gives rise to alcohol, 
51-11 ; CO.,, 49-31 ; succinic acid, 0-67 ; glycerine, 3-17 ; matter 
with ferments, 1-00 = 105-26. There is constantly produced a 
small quantity of ethers and alcohols of the higher series when 
complex matters are fermented ; thus, when potatoes are fer- 
mented the distillate yields propyl, butyl, amyl, caproic, caprylic, 
and Eenanthyl ethers and alcohols.''^ Alcohol is the primary cause 
of the well-known effects of fermented liquors, but secondary 
effects are due to the higher alcohols, ethers, essential oils, and 
non-volatile substances, for beer from which the alcohol has been 
driven by boiling has still a powerful effect upon the human 
economy. 

The proportion of absolute alcohol in the principal liquors of 
commerce is as follows : 

Whisky, gin, rum, and liqueurs con- 
tain 50 to 60 per cent. 

Brandy, cherry brandy, etc. ... About 36-5 per cent. 

Port, sherry, and Madeira ... ... 16 to 22 per cent. 

Champagne ... ... ... ... 10 to 13 

Hock, Bordeaux, Burgundy, and claret 8 to 12 
Cider and perry ... ... ... 5 to 9 

Ale and porter ... ... ... 3 to 5 

Koumiss and Leban ... ... 1 to 3 

Herb beer of various kinds ... 1 to 3 

The report of the Special Commission on Brandy in the Lancet, 
-November 2, 1902, has the following : 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 



281 



I 



Composition of Spirits. 


Grain Beet 
spirit, spirit. 


Bum. 


■Whisky. ] Gin. 


Three- 
Star 
Brandy. 


Alcohol, per litre {^^^j'£;* - 

Proof-spirit, per cent. 
Extract, per litre 


932-6 
956-0 
167-6 
Nil. 


912-0 
942-0 
165-1 
Nil. 


619-2 
695-0 
121-8 
6-36 


436-2 
512-0 
89-8 
1-16 


410-5 
475-0 
83-8 
-52 


410-5 
485-0 
85-0 
6-70 


Acids, as acetic 

Aldehydes 

Furfurol 

Ethers, as ethyl acetate 
Higher alcohols 


2-5 
0-1 
Nil. 
3-6 
2-9 


5-0 
11-5 
Nil. 
18-6 

7-3 


176-0 

22-1 

2-9 

443-1 
93-9 


65-4 

28-0 

3-9 

75-6 

239-7 


40-4 

9-9 

0-3 

18-6 

27-9 


77-3 

12-6 

1-7 

110-0 

12-0 


Total secondary products * 


9-1 


42-4 


738-0 1 412-6 

1 


97-0 


322-2 



General Remarks on the Effects of Alcohol. — When considered 
as a food, alcohol is classed with the hydrocarbons. It was 
formerly believed that none of it was utilized in the animal 
economy. It is now known that a portion is consumed, and 
that by its oxidation it yields heat and energy, and thereby saves 
the tissues of the body from being consumed to the same extent, 
just hke the oxidation of sugar, starch, or albumin. *32 A gramme 
of alcohol during oxidation yields seven calories or units of heat. 
It must, however, be confessed that alcohol is not a necessary 
article of food— that it is a luxury. Indeed, it has been proved 
again and again that the fullest mental and physical work is 
better obtained without it, that men can bear fatigue and extremes 
of climate better without than with it, and trainers have long 
recognised the fact that the power to sustain prolonged exertion 
and resist fatigue is fullest when alcohol is abstained from. 

The action of alcohol in any form is similar. Ale, wine, and 
other liquors, by virtue of their taste, flavour, and the aromatics 
or tonics they contain, give a relish to food and increase appetite 
and the flow of saliva and gastric juice. When a person is 
fatigued and loses appetite, therefore, a glass of wine or beer will 
rouse the sense of taste, restore appetite, provoke a flow of saliva 
and gastric juice, and to that extent assist digestion. At the 
same time the heart is stimulated, the skin is flushed and 
warmed, and a feeling of increased power and vigour occurs. 
As an appetizer and invigorator its moderate use is of value for 
persons who are weak, convalescent, aged, for those who lead 
* The secondary products are reckoned in grammes per litre. 



282 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

a sedentary life, or whose stomach has lost its tone owing to mental 
anxiety, worry, overwork, town life, and similar conditions. 
Larger doses hinder digestion until the alcohol is absorbed, and 
are likely to upset the stomach and cause indigestion or catarrh. 
Experiments have shown that tlie ultimate result as regards 
digestion is no better than if none had been taken. '^■' Blumeneau*'"* 
tested the action of alcohol in healthy stomachs, with the follow- 
ing results : Alcohol diminishes or hinders stomach digestion 
during the first three hours, owing to the presence of lactic acid, 
the secretion of which is excited by it instead of hydrochloric 
acid ; strong forms of alcohol hinder more than weak ones ; 
the motor activity and absorptive power of the stomach are 
diminished in proportion to the strength of the alcoholic 
liquid ; it renders the secretion of gastric juice more abundant 
and prolonged ; and during the fifth and sixth hours after 
the meal hydrochloric acid is rapidly formed and food quickly 
digested. 

With regard to work, alcohol is oxidized in the system and 
gives off heat and energy like fat and carbohydrate. But its 
influence is not so good as is generally imagined by those who 
rely upon it as a source of energy. Indeed, it has been proved by 
experiments that, although there is a temporary increase of power, 
the ultimate effect is a decrease of muscular power. Scheffer'^'^ 
has shown that alcohol first increases and then diminishes 
the power of doing muscular work, and that muscular irritability 
passes through the same phases; that if the peripheral motor 
nerve apparatus is first eliminated by curare, alcohol has no 
effect whatever. The effect of a moderate use of alcohol on the 
nervous system is to enliven the mind by causing a free circula- 
tion of blood through the brain. It excites the imagination, 
gives an increased feeling of importance and happiness, and 
makes the person talkative ; the spirits are raised, wit is 
sharpened, conversation improved. It does not always produce 
a light, gay, ideal hilarity, but it may cause a tumultuous, noisy, 
clamorous merriment ; and in some people it confuses the mind, 
irritates them, and makes them angry and quarrelsome. The 
first effect of alcohol on the nervous system is stimulation, but 
tlie secondary effect is depression, like that of all narcotics. If the 
dose has been a large one — and in many cases a small dose 



STIMULANTS AND NAKCOTICS 283 

is an overdose — the phenomena of stimulation are succeeded 
by those of depression ; the mind becomes dull, the intellect 
blunted or paralyzed, and the muscles unsteady or staggering. 
Then follow still further loss of the power of balancing and 
co-ordination, inability to walk, sit, or stand, attended by drowsi- 
ness or coma, and possibly failure of the heart or paralysis of 
the cardiac and respiratory centres, which may end in death. 
Einger'^*^ classes alcohol with ether and chloroform : they first 
produce excitement with increased strength of the pulse, which 
after a time gives way to more or less profound unconsciousness. 
With chloroform and ether the excitement soon passes into 
insensibility, which may last a long time without danger to life. 
With alcohol, on the contrary, the stage of excitement and 
intoxication is of long duration, but when the stage of insensibility 
and unconsciousness is reached, there is danger of death from 
paralysis of the heart and respiration. 

The Habitual Use of Alcohol. — In strictly moderate doses it has 
not been proved that drinking it does any harm ; but that dose is 
varied in individuals by idiosyncrasy and many circumstances. 
The amount which is absolutely harmless to one may be very 
injurious to another person. It has been proved by experiment 
that the daily dose which the body can dispose of by complete 
oxidation into carbonic acid and water is equivalent to 1 ounce or 
1^- ounces of absolute alcohol. Alcohol enters the blood unchanged, 
or partly as aldehyde, and is distributed through all the tissues 
and organs, a small part being transformed into acetic ether or 
acid and carbonic acid. The primary physiological eifect of alcohol 
is to lessen the destruction of the tissues by being itself oxidized ; 
this is proved by the diminution which takes place in the excre- 
tion of urea by the kidneys and carbonic acid by the lungs when 
it is taken ; about 3 per cent, may be eliminated unchanged by the 
bkin, lungs, and kidneys, and the rest, above the amount previously 
stated, lies in the tissues of the body and undergoes very gradual 
transformation and elimination. 

Long-continued use of alcohol produces degenerative changes 
in the system ; first in the stomach and liver, later in the kidneys 
lungs, bloodvessels, and brain. The change consists mainly in an 
increase of the fibrous-tissue elements. Such increase of fibrous 
tissue, by its ultimate contraction, causes atrophy of the glandular 



284 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

structures and loss of their function. Chronic catarrh and 
cirrhosis of the stomach, and hyperoemia and cirrhosis of the 
liver, are well-known effects of alcohol, and often result in dropsy 
and ha3morrhage. Bright's disease, too, is a frequent result. 
Speaking of its effects on the stomach, Einger says : Excess of 
alcohol excites chronic catarrh of the stomach, the mucosa 
becomes chronically inflamed, tenacious mucus adheres to it, 
and the structure of the membrane is altered ; there is a great 
increase of the interstitial fibrous tissue, which, by its growth 
and contraction, obstructs and destroys the secreting follicles and 
cells, the mucous lining becomes thickened, hard, and uneven, 
the follicles obliterated, and very little gastric juice is poured out 
in response to the demands made by the food ; consequently, 
unhealthy fermentation is excited, various acids, such as butyric 
and acetic, are formed, and much gas is developed, with the corre- 
sponding symptoms of heartburn, acidity, flatulence, and morning 
vomiting of a scanty, sour, tenacious fluid, which is characteristic. 
The effects of ' tippling ' on the bloodvessels is precisely the 
same as the changes due to old age, an increase of fibrous tissue 
and degenerative changes being brought about, with consequent 
depreciation of brain power and a tendency to cerebral haemor- 
rhages with paralysis. The action of alcohol on the nervous 
system is, firstly, to paralyze the vaso-motor nerves and congest 
the parts with blood. If this is continued or is increased, the 
congestion becomes greater, and alcohol, parting from the nutri- 
tive fluids (blood and lymph), acts as a poison upon the nervous 
tissues. ^'^ The deleterious effects of alcohol upon such delicate 
tissues has been shown by examination of the brains of many 
sufferers from chronic alcoholism, delirium tremens, neuritis, 
epilepsy, anaesthesia, irregular paralyses, and various forms of 
insanity. Witness also the many cases of mental degeneration, 
exhibited in the form of loss of memory, of power of thought and 
concentration, the wreck of business capability, and the moral 
effects of inebriety, which are too well known to need dilating 
upon. Not only does the alcohol itself produce these dire effects 
but the higher alcohols and furfurol are largely held responsible 
for them. Fusel oil, as these substances are called, is largely 
present in immature spirits, in whisky, grain spirits, and in 
liqueurs such as absinthe, vermouth, etc. Furfurol is very 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 285 

poisonous, and causes tetanic or epileptic convulsions in animals, 
whilst the respiratoi-y movements are slackened and soon com- 
pletely arrested. Brouardel *'^ considers that this throws much 
light on alcoholism, and that it may explain the attacks of 
epilepsy which sometimes occur. 

It has recently been pointed out by Mr. Pearce Gould that in 
certain army regiments 92 per 1,000 of the non-abstaining men 
were admitted to hospital, as against only 49 per 1,000 among 
the abstainers. The effect of intemperance in shortening life is 
universally known. Statistics have shown this so clearly that it 
may be stated generally that the mortality of the intemperate is 
four or five times greater than the mortality of strictly temperate 
persons of the same age and position in life ; indeed, so far has 
this been recognised by insurance companies that they all charge 
a higher rate of insurance upon the lives of known inebriates, 
while some offices give a decided advantage to abstainers. The 
mortality of publicans, innkeepers, wine and spirit dealers, is 
50 per cent, higher than that of all other people at the same age, 
and the death-rate amongst them from nervous, liver, kidney, and 
other diseases, is more than double. 

Specific Uses of Alcohol. ^ — It may be employed in fevers and 
other wasting diseases, where, by its oxidation, it acts as a 
food, spares the destruction of the bodily tissues, reduces the 
temperature, and stimulates the heart and circulation ; a dry 
brown tongue, restlessness, and a feeble, irregular pulse, are the 
indications of its necessity. It is best given in the form of 
brandy or strong wine in a definite quantity, according to the 
condition of the pulse and heart, the general strength, the height 
of the fever, the ability to take nourishment, and the age and 
previous habits of the patient. It is not required in every case of 
fever, and many cases have been aggravated by its unwise, 
injudicious, and excessive use. Especially is this so in the first 
stage of fevers and inflammation, when, congestion already exist- 
ing, alcohol can only increase or aggravate the previous condi- 
tion. It should not, therefore, be given as a rule in the febrile 
stage of diseases. Armstrong and Greaves formulated these 
aphorisms about the efl'ects of alcohol : {1} It is doing good if the 
tongue becomes moist, the pulse slower, the breathing more and 
more tranquil, and the skin moist. (2) It is doing harm if the 



286 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

tongue becomes dry and brown, the pulse quicker, the breathing 
increased in frequency, and the skin hot and parched. Young 
children and aged persons usually bear stimulants well, and it is 
often necessary to administer them early to these, to prevent the 
prostration of their already enfeebled powers. 

After the inflammatory or febrile stage of a disease has passed 
off, there succeeds a depression of the pulse and temperature, 
with anaemia and other indications of greatly enfeebled bodily 
powers, when the skilful use of stimulants may prevent a patient 
from dying or hasten his convalescence. But the proper use of 
alcoholic stimulants is a temporary one, and the patient should 
be impressed with this fact. 

In chronic diseases of the heart, when the natural com- 
pensatory hypertrophy fails and dilatation ensues, a good wine or 
spirit is valuable. When death is threatened through cardiac 
failure from shock, haemorrhage, or syncope, spirits are the best, 
and are usually available and convenient. They are rapid in 
their action and almost invariably successful, and may be given 
by the stomach, bowel, or under the skin.'''' 

In mental or nervous cases alcohol should be ordered with the 
greatest hesitation ; it affords too ready relief from the effects of 
grief, anxiety, suspense, or overwork, neuralgia, insomnia, 
hysteria, and such speedy relief may very soon lead to its abuse. 
The best thing is only to recommend weak alcoholic drinks, if any 
at all, in these cases, as ale, stout, or claret, to be taken at meal- 
times only ; even these are not always safe, because the habit of 
intemperance is quickly formed by such persons. 

In convalescence, alcohol in one form or another has a favour- 
able influence upon the nutrition, the manufacture of blood is 
encouraged by it, and a general restorative effect is observed in 
anaemia, atony of the digestive organs, general debility and 
lowering of the system. In the paragraphs on various forms of 
alcohol, the cases most benefited by each kind are mentioned, 
where any special influence has been observed. 

Brandy. — Brandy is the spirit distilled from wine made from 
the juice of grapes. Inferior brandy is sometimes made from the 
refuse of grapes after the juice has been expressed, and it is made 
up by admixture with various materials. English brandy is 
usually artificial ; a common mode of manufacture is to soak 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 287 

bruised prunes and argol in proof-spirit and distil it, afterwards 
adding about 25 per cent, of good brandy and llavouring with 
ethers and tannin.'^ 

Brandy is distilled wherever wine is made from grapes, as in 
France, Portugal, Spain, and California ; but long observation has 
proved that the grapes of certain districts yield brandy which 
cannot be equalled for bouquet and agreeable qualities, such as 
the cognac of France. 

Maturing. — Grape spirit or brandy retains the characteristics 
of fermented grape juice, but tivie produces characters in it 
which are equally important with those due to the kind of soil 
and climate which produces the vine. Brandy is matured by 
keeping it under proper conditions ; that is to say, it develops 
the taste and aroma of fine brandy, which is chiefly due to the 
conversion of the higher alcohols into a group of esters or ethereal 
products, such as acetic, aenanthic, butyric, and valeric ethers, and 
other aromatic bodies. A well-matured spirit is soft and agree- 
able to the palate, but contains no sugar or sweetening agent, its 
sweetness being due to the normal products of maturation. It 
should be free from crude alcohols of the higher series, which 
destroy the value of cheap spirits for therapeutic purposes. 

The secondary products obtained by Ordonneau from 100 Htres 
of cognac were — higher alcohols = propyl 40 grammes, butyl 
218, amyl 83-8, hexyl 0-6, heptyl 1-5, besides ethyl acetate 
35 grammes, aenanthic ether 4, ethyl proprionate, butyrate, and 
caproate 3, aldehyde 3, and traces of acetyl and amines.' ^ Brandy 
contains as much as 50 to 55 per cent, of alcohol, but it may 
have only 35 per cent, or less. The Lancet gives the following 
analysis of a specimen of invalid cognac : Alcohol by weight, 
38-22 per cent, (by volume 45-41, equal to proof-spirit 79-5) ; 
acidity, reckoned as acetic acid, 0-039; extractives, 0-725; mineral, 
0-005 ; and volatile ethers equal to 2-02 parts of alcohol in 10,000. 
In addition to alcohol and ethers, brandy usually contains a little 
tannin, acetic and other acids, sometimes a little grape-sugar and 
colouring matter. The tannin, methylic and amyhc alcohols, may 
be in excess, and consequently injurious ; and it has been found 
to contain copper, lead or zinc from being stored in metallic 
vessels, and cayenne or other hot materials have been added."- 

Brandy is the best form of spirit to use in most cases of acute 



288 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

illness, especially where it has to be given in regular and definite 
amount every hour or two ; it is also the best for spasms affecting 
the heart or stomach and bowels, faintness, syncope, and many 
other ailments in which a spirituous liquor is valuable. It may 
be given in plain water, soda-water, milk, or any other liquid ; a 
good form for administration' is the brandy mixture of the British 
Pharmacopoeia, or the following : Let an egg be beaten up, pour 
upon it half a teacupful of boiling milk, add a little sugar, one or 
two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and mix it. In a bad case of 
pneumonia or similar disease, a tablespoonful of brandy every 
three hours is a sufficient quantity. 

Whisky. — Whisky is properly made by distillation from 
malted barley ; but it is sometimes produced from Indian corn, 
rye, potatoes, molasses, and various other substances. Scotch 
whisky of good quality is made from malted barley alone, Irish 
from malted and raw barley together, but other differences exist 
in their manufacture. ' The highlands of Scotland and Ireland 
are equally celebrated for its manufacture, the finest quality of 
barley being made into malt with water from heather-clad hills, 
and dried in kilns with fires made of peat supplied in the neigh- 
bourhood.' The old-fashioned ijot-still is said to produce the 
finest whisky, but Coffey's patent still is largely employed. 
Good whisky contains 380 parts in 100,000 of secondary pro- 
ducts ; but they are only produced by the pot-still to this extent, 
for patent-still whisky never contains more than 240 parts of 
secondary products in 100,000. Good whisky cannot be made 
from grain, rye, maize, beet, mangold, potato, etc., but only from 
malted barley, or from this with a small proportion of unmalted 
barley. The secondary products, commonly called fusel oil, 
consist chiefly of the higher alcohols. Propyl alcohol is almost 
a constant constituent ; butyl alcohol is also largely present ; 
iso-butyl alcohol occurs when mangolds are used ; and iso-amyl 
alcohol is the principal constituent of fusel oil when the spirit is 
derived from potatoes. Hexyl and heptyl alcohols are also 
present. The following is the percentage composition of fusel oil ''^' 





Clandon and 






Morin. 


Uruonnet 


Propyl alcohol 


11-9 


11-7 


Normal butyl alcohol 


49-3 


63-8 


Iso-butyl alcohol 


4-5 


0-0 


Amyl alcohol 


24-4 


24-5 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 289 

Good malt whisky should be mild and smooth to the taste, 
have the flavour of malt and peat smoke, and be free from the 
undesirable higher alcohols and by-products. It may contain 
35 to 60 per cent, of alcohol. The Lancet gives the following 
proportions in a special brand of Scotch whisky"^ : xAlcohol by 
weight 39-30 per cent., by volume 46-5, equal to proof-spirit 
81-64; volatile acids 0-024, minerals 0-015, extractives 0-840. 
Irish whisky has alcohol by weight 40-8 per cent., by volume 48-4. 
The adulterations of whisky are wood-spirit, creasote, fixed acid, 
and potato spirit or fusel oil. 

Maturing.— Whisky should never be drunk new or raw, because 
it contains a varying proportion of amyhc alcohol or fusel oil 
derived from the starch, which is always in largest proportion 
where potatoes are used in the manufacture. Fusel oil is very 
injurious, and speedily poisons small animals ; its effect on man 
is to produce rapid intoxication, with headache, depression, 
general nervous indisposition, and other evidences of its dele- 
terious action on the body. The careful treatment of the malt 
is responsible to a large extent for the quality and flavour of the 
spirit, but neither the material nor the kind of still used are such 
potent factors in producing a wholesome fluid as maturing it by 
age. All new whisky is vile and unpalatable, and time alone can 
bring about the changes requisite in it by the conversion of the 
higher alcohols into esters or ethereal products. Many efforts 
have been made to produce artificially the effects of matiLvatioii, 
but the natural organic changes have baffled all attempts at 
imitation. Some spirits mature earlier than others, but the 
minimum time allowed should be five years ; not less important 
is it to buy only those spirits which have been made by distillers 
who guarantee its production from malt alone. 

Whisky is said to be the best form of alcohol for invahds with 
diseases of the chest attended by difficulty of breathing, but it is 
also useful in the many circumstances for which brandy is recom- 
mended when the latter is unattainable. 

EuM. — The finest rum is produced by distillation of the fer- 
mented molasses of cane-sugar, and inferior qualities from the 
debris of the sugar-cane or beet-root molasses. As the best malt 
whisky is produced in Scotland and Ireland, so the finest rum is 
produced in Jamaica ; nothing exactly replaces the cane-sugar of 

19 



290 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the "West Indies for its manufacture. Its strength varies from 
50 to 90 per cent, of alcohol, an4 it is matured by age. 

Gin. — Gin is distilled from rye and various flavouring sub- 
stances ; good examples contain 80 to 85 per cent, of proof-spirit, 
with 5 or 6 per cent, of flavouring material and some sugar ; it is 
usually sold at 25 to 35 degrees under proof. 

Gin is stomachic, stimulant, aromatic, antispasmodic, and 
diuretic. It has therefore a wide range of application ; but 
very great care is required in prescribing it, because of the rapid 
formation of habits of intemperance. The properties of gin are 
mainly due to the following or other substances used in its 
manufacture : 

The berries of Juniperus communis (N. 0. Coniferae) contain 0'5 
to 0'75 per cent, of an oil having a bitter taste and characteristic 
aromatic odour. It is a specific stimulant to the cells of the 
kidneys ; it increases the secretion of water and the materials 
contained in it, and gives to the urine an odour of violets. This 
ingredient, by its diuretic property, makes gin of value in dropsy 
due to liver and heart diseases, and in some cases of Bright's 
disease. In large doses, however, juniper will cause inflamma- 
tion of the kidneys and strangury, and is decidedly injurious in 
Bright's disease. 

Cardamom and coriander seeds are likewise used ; they con- 
tain a pale yellow oil having antispasmodic and carminative 
properties. 

Calamus root, angelica root, grains of paradise, and cassia, all 
containing essential oils and active principles, are used in making 
gin, and contribute to the carminative, aromatic, and intoxicant 
effects of that liquid. 

Absinthe. — ^This is a spirituous liquor of greenish-yellow 
colour, containing the essential oil of numerous aromatic and 
antispasmodic bodies, such as wormwood, or Artemisia absintJmmi, 
angelica, parsley, cloves, cinnamon ; and the colour is due to the 
chlorophyll from wormwood, hyssop, veronica, spinach, nettles, 
and parsley. Hubert"^ found it to contain 50 to 70 per cent, of 
alcohol, acidity 0-09 to 0-28, aldehydes 0-025 to 0-15, furfurol 0-0002 
to -0004, esters 0-071 to 0423, essential oils 2-614 to 4-25. The 
colour of absinthe should be due entirely to the herbs named 
above and not to artificial colours. Wormwood contains absinthin, 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 291 

a bitter substance, and absinthol, a terpene, which is the essential 
principle. Essential oils are also derived from the other sub- 
stances which are used in its manufacture. 

Alcohol produces its customary effects when absinthe is taken, 
besides which particular effects are produced by the bitters and 
essential oils contained in it. The primary effect is one of exalta- 
tion to the nervous system, a quickening of the circulation, and in- 
crease of appetite and digestion ; but it is followed by a depression 
which may be very profound. When taken habitually or to excess, 
the essential oils, especially the absinthol, have a very deleterious 
effect on the nervous system ; headache, giddiness, hallucinations, 
and loss of memory, with subsequent degeneration of the mental 
and moral faculties, ultimately render the absinthe-drinker a very 
depraved creature. Absinthe-poisoning or drunkenness is at- 
tended by sudden and severe headache and giddiness, delirium 
in which hallucinations affecting all the special senses occur, 
epileptiform seizures, loss of consciousness, and, on recovery, loss 
of memory and a tendency to manifestations of hysteria.'*^ "'' 

LiQUEUKS or Cordials usually contain about 40 or 50 per cent, 
of alcohol, and, like absinthe, are flavoured with numerous things 
containing essential oils ; for example, cura9oa, benedictine, 
vermouth, and many others. Their colouring is due to simple 
substances like chlorophyll, cochineal, or turmeric ; but more 
harmful materials have been used, as picric acid and aniline 
dyes.'^ The custom of taking bitter appetizers — e.g., ' gin and 
bitters ' — before the heavy meals of the day, or similar liqueurs at 
the end, with the object of stimulating appetite and digestion, is 
very widespread. Experiments have proved that bitters render 
the sense of taste and enjoyment of food more acute, and 
temporarily increase the gastric secretion ; but the habit is 
susceptible of abuse when the vehicle is an alcoholic liqueur. 
It may be observed that a small quantity of an alkali taken in 
place of them exercises an equally favourable influence on the 
secretion of the stomach, and that a few tablespoonfuls of soup at 
the beginning or a small piece of cheese at the end of the meal 
subserve the same purpose. 

Arbach and other Spirits. — Arrach is a spirit obtained by the 
distillation of fermented rice liquor or the juice of the palm or cocoa- 
nut tree ; it contains about 50 per cent, of alcohol, and is some- 

19—2 



292 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

times drugged with Indian hemp or other narcotics."-' Doasta is 
the name of a spirit distilled from rice liquor and sold in Calcutta ; 
Mann found it to be about 20 degrees under proof, but it con- 
tained higher alcohols amounting to 0-561 per cent., or 491 grains 
per gallon. Shajehanjur rum made from sugar refuse is 53 to 56 
degrees under proof. Mahua spirit is made from the flowers of 
Bassia latifolia in Bengal and Assam. The flowers contain 
58 per cent, of fermentable sugar. The spirit is from 22 to 60 
degrees under proof, and contains 0-04 to 0-33 per cent, of higher 
alcohols or fusel oil, which is an enormous amount, and must be 
very prejudicial to the health of the consumer.^o In Japan the 
spirit distilled from rice is called sochu ; in China spirit distilled 
from rice or millet is called sautchu ; in Thibet a similar spirit is 
arra. We have seen that arrach is distilled from various kinds 
of grain ; the flowers of the mnowha-tree and of various palm-trees 
are also used in India. In Tartary, koumiss yields a spirit called 
arika ; in the Caucasus, kephir, a similar fermented drink, yields 
a spirit called skhou ; in Peru, a spirit called puichui is derived 
from manioc and maize ; and in Mexico, a spirit called octli is 
derived by distillation of pulque, the fermented juice of agave. ^^ 
The juice of the Agave Americana is rich in sugar ; Bassingault 
gives the following composition : 1,000 parts of the juice contain 
26-45 parts of laevulose, 61-71 of saccharose, 3-53 of malic acid, 
545 of gum, 10-13 of albumin, and 6-2 of salts. 

Wine. — Wine is the fermented juice of the grape, and is the 
most important of all fermented liquors. Its action is modified 
to some extent by other substances derived from the fruit. 
Natural wines are here alluded to, and not the concoctions some- 
times sold under that name. A good wine is a splendid union 
of principles calculated to arouse the nutritive functions and 
invigorate the body, without unduly exciting the nervous system. 
Besides alcohol, it contains several parts of grape-sugar, and 
various albuminoid bodies ; succinic acid, glycerine, mannite, 
gum, and fatty matters ; mineral salts, chiefly potassium in the 
form of cream of tartar, sulphates, carbonates, phosphates and 
chlorides of magnesia, soda, lime, and iron ; organic salts as 
tartrates, citrates, acetates, malates, racemates, butyrates, and 
proprionates ; free acids, such as carbonic, acetic, tartaric, and 
other organic acids ; colouring matter and tannin ; and the 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 



293 



bouquet resulting from the union of several odoriferous matters 
similar to perfumes, as aldehyde and higher alcohols and ethers, 
including caproic, caprylic, acetic, malic, butyric, and pelargonic.^^ 
Numerous as the above list appears, it is not complete, and they 
may not be all present in a given sample of M^ine ; sometimes one 
or other may be in excess of the average. The organic salts are 
valuable constituents, and become oxidized in their passage 
through the body into alkaline carbonates ; but an excess of 
organic acid gives rise to a marked acid reaction, and is just that 
property in wine which may cause acidity of the stomach, water- 
brash, and other signs of indigestion or gout. 

What are known as light wines, among which we may include 
Burgundy, Bordeaux, hock, chablis, cahors, Moselle, sillery, and 
champagne, contain from 5 to 15 per cent, of alcohol ; the heavier 
or stronger wines, as port, Madeira, sherry, contain from 15 to 25 
per cent. 

Percentage op Constituents in Wine. 





Alcohol. 


1 

1 


Mineral Matters. 


•Ji 


>1 


a 
o . 

•^ 2 

I 


2 
< 

1 

O 1 


1 


1 

o 

> 


-4-5 

II 

Ph 


Burgundy "j 

and y ... 
Bordeaux J 


10-85 


13-43 


23-54 


2-28 


0-24 


0-14 


0-096 


0-22 


\ 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


\- 


12-38 


15 


30 


26 


83 


2-71 


0-27 


0-21 


0-108 


0-.307 


\ 


Poniniard 


12-38 


15 


3 


26 


83 


2-74 


0-20 


0-23 


0-102 


0-262 




Beaune 


11 62 


14 


37 


25 


18 


2-90 


0-25 


0-30 


0-102 


0-307 


— 


Chablis (white) 


10-87 


13 


43 


23 


54 


2-62 


0-26 


1-20 


0-084 


0-420 


_ 


Moselle (white) 


8-64 


10 


73 


18 


81 


2-14 


0-18 


0-25 


0-070 


0-670 


0-924 


Port 


17-05 


21 


19 


37 


13 


9-20 


0-22 


7-56 


0-071 


0-340 


0-0-29 


Hungarian (red) 


8-29 


10 


30 


18 


04 


2-34 


0-24 


0-23 


0-140 


0-530 


0-035 


Australian 


13-15 


16 


24 


28 


46 


3-52 


0-32 


0-36 


0-240 


0-440 




Champagne ... 


12-38 


15-30 


26-82 


3-67 


Oil 


1-92 


0-090 


0-600 





The list given above is collected from the Lancet analyses of 
special samples of natural wines recommended by merchants for 
invalids and others. Wine bought at a fair price from a respect- 
able merchant is usually a genuine article, but low-priced wines 



294 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

are sometimes of extremely bad quality, and may be entirely 
artificial. Port is often fortified with brandy and artificially 
coloured, or mixed with inferior wines ; cream of tartar and 
various ethers may be added to give an appearance of age and 
flavour ; it is often plastered with gypsum and the brilliance 
increased by alum ; sherry, claret, champagne, and other wines, 
are frequently plastered and fortified by spirits and otherwise 
' faked.' Many colouring matters are used in this process, as 
fuchsine, Brazil-wood, logwood, cochineal, fresh beet-root, holly- 
hock, and elder-, whortle-, privet-, or portugal-berries.'^'^ 

Artificial colouring may be detected thus : Dissolve a piece of 
caustic potash in the liquid; if the wine is natural it assumes a 
greenish shade of colour, but gives no deposit. The formation of 
a deposit indicates artificial colouring ; if it is violet, the colouring 
may be due to mulberries or elderberries, which are not injurious; 
a red deposit indicates the presence of beet-root or Brazil-wood ; 
red-violet, logwood ; blue-violet, privet berries ; pale violet, 
litmus. ^^ Fuchsine is detected thus : Add a little acetate of lead 
and amylic alcohol to the wine, shake it briskly, pour it into a 
glass, and allow it to stand. The amylic alcohol will soon separate 
and be coloured red by fuchsine ; if it is not so coloured, fuchsine 
is absent. '^^ 

Many liome-made xoines, or wines made from fruit other than 
grapes, are excellent and very wholesome ; they have not such a 
fine bouquet as sherry, port, or claret, but they contain from 
10 to 15 or more per cent, of alcohol, with organic salts, etc. ; 
currant, rhubarb, gooseberry, and elderberry wines, cider, perry, 
mead, and pulque, are all excellent in their way, and contain the 
properties and qualities of the material from which they are 
made. 

When wine is kept too long in cask or bottle there is a deposi- 
tion of tannin and colouring matter, and some of the sugar 
disappears ; when air is not absolutely excluded, acetous fermenta- 
tion takes place from the presence of a microbe. Bacterium aceti. 
which transforms alcohol by oxidation into acetic acid^^ — CoH^jO 
becomes CaH^Oo ; consequently the wine is sour, and the presence 
of acetic acid increases any other properties which the wine has 
of causing dyspeptic and gouty symptoms. Other species of 
fermentation may also take place in the liquid ; thus a bacterium 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 295 

converts sugar into lactic acid and increases the acidity of the 
wine, and the butyric ferment attacks fatty or oily substances 
and produces butyric acid. There is a risk of lead-poisoning 
through the storing of acid wine in earthenware vessels glazed 
in the usual manner with litharge ; lead is readily dissolved in 
cider, perry, or any wine which has become sour ; if earthenware 
vessels are used for such a purpose, they should be glazed with a 
hard salt glaze. These facts indicate the extreme care which is 
required in storing and preserving wine, so as to develop therein 
the good qualities of such a fluid and check the production of 
bad ones. 

In considering the influence of wine upon nutrition, and its 
effects upon the individual in various diseases, its constituents 
must be taken into account. Wine, having a specific gravity 
nearly that of water, is absorbed less readily than spirit, 
which is a favourable circumstance, as it spreads the absorp- 
tion over a longer period, and renders wine less dangerous 
than spirits. Wine is absorbed without change ; its bouquet and 
aroma stimulate taste and appetite and influence nutrition 
favourably ; the aromatic constituents stimulate the glands of 
the abdomen and favour the manufacture of blood cells ; the 
general constitution of wine has a restorative action on those 
exhausted by fatigue, mental labour, insufficient food, or long 
illness, and in various diseases, as ansemia, atony of the digestive 
organs, general debility, and low states of the system. 

There are good and bad years for wine-making, the vintage 
having very much to do with the quality of the finished product. 
As examples, good Burgundy was produced in the following 
years: 1874, 1877, 1881, 1883, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1889, 1890, 
1891, 1892, 1893, 1894, 1896, 1898, and 1899 ; and good Bordeaux 
in the years 1871, 1874, 1875, 1877, 1880, 1887, 1888, 1889, 
1890, 1891, 1893, 1898, 1899, and 1900 ; good port in 1851, 1852, 
1853, 1858, 1862, 1863, 1867, 1868, 1872, 1873, 1875, 1884, 
1887, etc. Little can be said of tiie general characters of 
particular wines here ; a few remarks will suffice : Hock, still or 
sparkling, is light and easily assimilated. Sherry contains more 
alcohol, but good varieties, Amontillado, Manzanilla, Olerosa, are 
wholesome, light, and delicate. Port is very much heavier, con- 
tains a larger proportion of alcohol, sugar, and other bodies, but 



296 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

it is a rich and fruity wine, and when old and tawny has a 
dehcate and soft flavour and bouquet ; it has been credited with 
having caused many attacks of gout, but it should be remembered 
that port is not the only stimulant capable of awakening a 
slumbering enemy. Madeira is of great softness and elegance, 
and has a beautiful bouquet ; formerly it was not considered to 
be properly matured until it had made several long sea-voyages, 
but a few years storage under proper conditions are sufticient for 
its maturation. Good claret is the natural wine of the Bordeaux 
and Burgundy districts ; it is not injurious, but usually whole- 
some. Burgundy often has sugar added to it, which renders 
it heating, less pleasant to the palate, and destroys the true 
flavour of the wine. Chablis is a white Burgundy of soft, light, 
and nice flavour; beaujolais is also a light and delicate wine of 
full flavour, and such also is pommard ; beaune is pleasant, light, 
and well flavoured ; and chambertin, when well matured, is fine 
and Tnellow. Moselle, still or sparkling, is the favourite table wine 
of Germany, and is especially recommended for persons suffering 
from stone, rheumatism, and all diseases of defective metabolism ; 
it is wholesome, light and agreeable, free from acidity, and easily 
digested. Malaga contains 11 to 15 per cent, of alcohol, and 14 
to 23 of extracts ; Teneriffe wine 15 to 18 per cent, of alcohol, 
and 4 to 7 of extracts. Tokay contains a larger proportion of 
phosphoric acid than any other wine, and when good may be 
prescribed medicinally as a tonic. Hungarian, Italian, Swiss, 
Californian, and Australian wines are useful tonics, especially the 
ferruginous wines like ophir and tintara. Absolutely dry 
champagne, without added sugar, is recommended for invalids 
suffering from gout, rheumatism, indigestion, and other diseases 
where saccharine or highly alcoholic wines are prohibited. 
Eheims is the champagne centre of France, where its manu- 
facture is a speciality. The juice of black grapes only is used, 
the skins being rejected because the tannin and colouring matters 
are not wanted. The oiiust or liquor is stored in rock cellars, 
where it ferments and deposits lees, and is poured from one cask 
to another until it is clear and bright. The products of different 
vineyards are blended after fermentation ; the proportion of sugar 
is then ascertained, and any deficiency made up by the addition 
of sugar-candy, for a definite proportion of sugar is required to 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 297 

produce the future sparkle. It is now bottled and stored in a 
waruier atmosphere until the effervescing character begins to 
appear, after which it is transferred to cellars for three or four 
years to mature. During maturation a deposit is formed, and 
the bottles are placed so that it settles upon the cork ; when 
mature the cork is removed with the deposit upon it ; liqueur is 
now in some cases added, and a fresh cork put in. Vin brut is 
the natural champagne, having no added liqueur ; it is the best 
dinner beverage, and assists appetite and stimulates the circula- 
tion. Good champagne should be fairly free from sugar and 
acidity, and is not then injurious to gouty and rheumatic patients 
in a greater degree than other light wines. It is sometimes 
serviceable in cases of acute illness where there is a tendency to 
heart failure, in obstinate vomiting and convalescence. 

Malt Liquors. — Malt is a grain in which germination has 
been encouraged by warmth and moisture to a certain point, and 
then stopped by heat. During the process a ferment or enzyme 
is produced which transforms some of the starch of the grain into 
sugar. Barley, which is the grain usually malted, contains starch, 
albumin, dextrin, a little fat, cellulose, and mineral matter. Malt 
differs from it in containing more sugar and dextrin, less starch 
and organic material. Thus dried barley contains : Starch, 65*7 
percent.; sugar, 5-5; albuminoids, 11-8; fat, 2-5; cellulose, 9-5; ash, 
3-1 (Oicdemann). Pale malt contains : Starch, 44-15 per cent. ; 
sugar, 21-23; fat, 1-65; albuminoid, 13-9; cellulose, 11-57; ash, 
2-60 {Valentine).^' 

In the process of malting, the grain is steeped in water for 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours, during which it swells by 
absorption of 10 to 30 per cent, of water, and begins to germinate. 
It is then couched or piled in heaps upon a stone Hoor, by which 
heat is generated in the mass and germination thereby en- 
couraged. It is afterwards spread on floors and stirred 
frequently to expose it to the air, the growth of the acrospires, 
or rudimentary stems, being here carried to the desired limit, 
which is known by their length and appearance. It is then 
dried in a kiln at 50° to 100° F., and the young sprouts are 
broken off by handling and removed by sifting ; the finished malt 
is pale or dark brown, according to the degree of heat used in 
drying it. During the process of malting the following changes 



298 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

take place : Some of the gluten breaks up into vegetable gelatine, 
which gives body to the malt liquors ; another portion of albumin 
is transformed into the enzyme diastase, and the diastase con- 
verts about one -third of the starch into sugar, or maltose and 
dextrin. Colour is imparted to the malt, and an empyreumatic 
oil which gives flavour is generated by drying. The changes 
make malting of the grain advantageous to the brewer and dis- 
tiller ; they are unobtainable by any other means, and care is 
required in the process to insure the proper development of these 
properties. Various substitutes are frequently used for malt in 
the manufacture of malt liquors — e.g., glucose, invert-sugar, 
caramel, etc.^^ 

The ordinary malt liquors are ale, stout, porter, lager beer, and 
bock. Pale ale is made from the finest and highest dried malt 
and the choicest hops, and is bitter ; it contains about 14 or 15 
per cent, of extract of malt and 6 or 7 of alcohol. Scotch 
ale contains about 10 per cent, of malt extract and 8 or 9 
of alcohol. Lager beer usually has 9 or 10 per cent, of malt 
extract and 4 or 5 of alcohol. Bavarian beer is fermented 
at a low temperature, has only 2 or 3 per cent, of alcohol, is 
rather bitter, of fine aroma, and a peculiar flavour derived from 
the casks. Porter is made with roasted or dark brown malt, and 
contains alcohol 5 to 7 per cent, and extract of malt 7 or 8 ; 
stout is a stronger kind of porter. In the manufacture of these 
liquors, the malt is infused in water, and the infusion or sweet- 
wort is fermented with yeast, Torula cerevisicE, at a temperature 
of 15° to 18° C. ; the yeast or barm rises to the surface, and is 
skimmed olT; the hitter flavour is given by hops and other 
vegetables. Analyses of these liquors show them to contain : 
Alcohol, 1 to 10 per cent. ; dextrin, maltose, and cellulose, 4 to 
15 per cent. ; free organic acids, as malic, gallic, lactic, and acetic ; 
free carbonic acid gas, usually about 2 cubic inches per fluid 
ounce of liquid ; mineral salts from the water and malt ; and 
vegetable principles derived from the material used to bitter 
it, as — 

Hops, the dried catkins or strobiles of Hwimlus liqyulus, col- 
lected from the cultivated plants ; they consist of scales enclosing 
the so-called nut, which are covered with a yellowish powder, 
the superficial glands or aromatic bodies called lupulin. Hops 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 299 

contain valerol, an aromatic oil which gives the aroma ; lupuline, 
an alkaloid ; and lupulinic acid, the bitter principle, besides tannin, 
resin, wax, and extractive. The oil, resin, and acid, are con- 
stituents of value to the brewer ; the oil is firstly a stimulant, 
secondly diuretic, sedative, and soporific ; lupulinic acid is a 
tonic and bitter stomachic, and these principles, combined with 
the alcohol, make the beer wholesome, promote sleep, and arouse 
and strengthen the appetite in low states of the system." ^^ The 
use of other bitters in making beer is quite legal — e.g. : 

Gentian root contains 0-1 per cent, of gentio-picrin, gentianic 
acid, gum, sugar, and a trace of volatile oil. It is an agreeable 
and slightly aromatic bitter, a tonic and stimulant to the stomach 
and bowels, and slightly disinfectant. 

Chiretta, a dried plant of Northern India, contains an active 
bitter principle, cMratin, and ophelic acid, but no tannin. Gen- 
taurea calcritraps and Cnicus benedictus contain cnicin, a very 
bitter principle. Menyanthes trifoliata contains a bitter principle, 
menyanthin, and a volatile oil. Mezereon contains daphnin, 
and aloes has aloin. Artemisia has absinthin and a volatile oil. 
Quassia contains quassin, a very bitter principle. These and 
other vegetables are used in the manufacture of malt liquors. 
They are very bitter. Most of them are pure stomachic tonics, 
and in moderate proportions are not harmful. They invigorate 
the body whilst they increase appetite, and are thereby the 
means of introducing an increased amount of nutriment into 
the system, which is the main reason and value of such 
beverages. 

Considered as articles of diet, malt liquors produce effects 
which are due in part to the alcohol and in part to the bitter and 
other principles contained in them. They encourage appetite 
and assist digestion, and promote sleep when they are bittered 
with hops. They are therefore useful in some forms of indi- 
gestion and debility, especially in persons who are enfeebled by 
disease, overwork, strain, mental worry, neuralgia, and similar 
troubles. They are nutritive in proportion to the saccharine and 
albuminous matters contained in them. Little can be said 
against the moderate use of malted alcoholic liquors ; but it has 
been proved that work of all kinds is better done without them. 
When taken in excess their effect is the same as that of other 



300 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



forms of alcohol. In particular, they cause corpulence and 
obesity, and by their interference with oxidation and elimination 
of the waste materials of the tissues they lead to gouty and 
other diseases which result from the accumulation of uric acid_ 
and its allies in the system. Plethora, hyperasmia of the liver 
and its sequelae, are common consequences.*^'' '"^ 

Cider and Peeky. — Cider was the name formerly given to a 
drink made from the juice of any fruit mingled with strong 
liquors, but is now always understood to be the fermented juice 
of apples. Perry is a pleasant, wholesome beverage, consisting 
of the fermented juice of pears. In large manufactories the juice 
is obtained by expression from the fruit. It is then exposed to 
the air at a temperature of about 60° F., and undergoes fer- 
mentation, the ferment being in the air. Dregs and scum are 
removed by racking and filtration. Sometimes albuminous sub- 
stances are precipitated by the use of materials, like catechu, 
which contain tannin ; acidity, when excessive, is neutralized 
by alkalies ; 1 pint of milk being added to 9 gallons for the 
purpose oifini)i(j, and preservatives — e.g., boric or salicylic acid — 
are put in by some makers, the latter in the proportion of 1 ounce 
to 96 gallons. The average composition of apple juice or mtist 
is stated by Allen to be — total solids, 19-7 per cent. ; acidity 
(reckoned as H^SO^), 0-21 ; sucrose, 2-50; glucose, 13-58 ; pectin 
and albumin, 1-2 ; tannin, 0-29 ; and of pear juice or must — 
total solids, 21-95 per cent.; acidity, 0-15; sucrose, 367; 
glucose, 14-56 ; pectin and albumin, 1-31 ; and tannin, 0-18. 

The composition of cider according to E. Grignon and A. H. 
Allen is here given :''i 





French Ciders. 


Beuourri. 


Average 
of all 
Kinds. 


Sweet 
Sparkling 


Sweet. 


Dry. 


Dry. 


Alcohol, by volume 

Extract 

Ash 

Acidity, as H2SO4... 
Sugar 

Alcohol, after com- 
plete fermentation 


•3-8 
6-41 
0-29 
0-36 
3-47 

5-9 


4-1 

6-40 

0-28 

0-39 

3-75 

6-3 


5-4 

3-03 

0-27 

0-52 

0-65 

5-8 


5-4 

2-95 

0-26 

0-58 

0-58 

5-7 


70 

2-22 
0-24 
0-54 
0-27 

7-1 


6-0 
2-47 
0-27 
0-52 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 



301 



The products of the fermentation of apple juice or must are 
various, and they might be classified and sold as sweet, dry, or 
sparkling cider. Perry closely resembles cider, but has a sweeter 
taste, from the smaller proportion of malic acid in the must. 
Allen gives the following analyses '-'^ of Worcestershire and 
Devonshire perry, and quotes that of Gloucestershire by 
Pembrey : 



Sparkling Perry. 


Worcester- 
shire. 


Devonshire. 


Gloucester- 
shire. 


Alcohol, by weight 

Equal to proof- spmt 


4-61 
10-11 


4-81 
10-54 


3-64 

7-98 


Total solids 

Volatile acid, as acetic 

Fixed acid, as malic 

Glucose 

Sucrose 

Ash 


6-51 
0-41 
0-25 
2-71 
none 
0-40 


5-49 
0-.35 
0-20 
3-60 
0-31 
0-28 


4-50 
0-22 
0-24 
0-36 

0-30 


Original Solids 


16-61 


16-92 


12-33 



Cider and perry contain the stimulating and fragrant ethers 
found in champagne. Medicinally they are useful in cases of 
gout, rheumatism, gravel, stone, kidney diseases, and especially 
for those who have a tendency to obesity. Dry cider, on account 
of its freedom from sugar, is the best. 

Koumiss. — An alcoholic beverage made from the milk of mares 
and other animals in Tartary. The composition of koumiss 
made with mare's milk, according to Hartier, is as follows : 
Alcohol, 1-65 per cent., fat, 2-05; lactose, 2-20; casein, 1-12; 
salts, 028 ; carbonic acid gas, 0-78. That made of cow's milk, 
according to Wanklyn, has the following composition : Alcohol, 
1-60 per cent. ; fat, 0-30 ; lactose, 4-85 ; casein, 1-07 ; salts, 0-75 ; 
carbonic acid gas, l-50.''-^ Kephir is the name applied by the 
inhabitants of the Caucasus to the fermented milk of mares. 

Although koumiss is an alcoholic beverage, the proportion of 
alcohol in it is so small that it may be almost disregarded, except 
when a large quantity is consumed. On the other hand, a quart 
of koumiss contains 970 grains of various kinds of nutriment, each 
in a state to promote the digestion of the other in the weakest 



302 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

stomach. It is therefore a valuable agent. The lactic acid in 
it augments the digestive powers, diminishes temperature and 
the frequency of the pulse, and regulates mucous secretion. The 
casein, albumin, and fat are nutritive, and promote assimilation ; 
the lactose provides heat and energy, and increases weight ; the 
alcohol, small as it is, encourages sleep, diminishes fever, and by 
oxidation develops heat and energj' ; the carbonic acid gas allays 
nausea, calms gastric irritation, increases the flow of urine, and 
diminishes the frequency of the heart, but augments the force 
of its contraction. Milk is one of the chief dietetic remedies in 
therapeutics, comprising all the nutritive requirements of the 
body ; but, perfect as milk is, disease sometimes enfeebles the 
digestive organs so that it cannot be digested in sufficient 
quantity to maintain life. In such cases koumiss will be useful. It 
may also be given in certain cases of diabetes, Bright's disease, 
functional diseases of the urinary system, diseases of the nervous 
system, consumption, chronic gastric catarrh, and chronic 
pharyngitis or laryngitis. Sometimes, when living almost 
entirely on koumiss, the patient has put on a pound of flesh 
per week, the flesh has become plump, the complexion a fresh 
colour, and the digestive organs improved.''^ 

The following mode of preparing koumiss from cow's milk is 
given by Davis : Take 24 ounces of milk, 8 ounces of water, 

5 drachms of brown sugar, 48 grains of compressed yeast, 

6 drachms of milk-sugar. Dissolve the milk-sugar in the water ; 
rub the yeast and brown sugar together in a mortar with a little 
of the mixture ; strain it ; add all together ; put the liquid in 
bottles and wire them. Keep at a moderate temperature for a 
few days. Shake each day, to prevent clotting of the casein. 
The acid stage is reached in a few days, when the preparation 
is much thicker and in a proper condition for use.''"' It should 
now be stored in a cool place. 

Methylated-Spirit Deinking. — Methylated spirit contains 
90 per cent, of raw spirit (ethyl alcohol) and 10 per cent, of wood 
spirit (methyl alcohol) — that is, twice as much alcohol as good 
whisky or brandy — and its cheapness and unrestricted sale places 
it within easy reach of everybody. No restriction is put upon 
its sale beyond the license which the retailer must hold ; conse- 
quently, much evil results from its consumption as a stimulant. 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 303 

A legitimate use for methylated spirit exists in the arts and 
many trades, whence it is most difficult to ascertain whether the 
liquid is purchased for trade purposes or to be drunk. Covi- 
mcrcial methylated spirit contains 64 per cent, of alcohol, 10 of 
wood naphtha, and 2 of petroleum oil. It is a nauseous mixture, 
but, in spite of its unpleasant taste and odour, its consumption is 
rapidly increasing, and threatens to become a social danger. 

The deleterious effects are due to the combination of three 
principles, which make it far worse than new or raw whisky. 
They are — new or immature alcohol ; petroleum, which causes 
a form of intoxication ; and naphtha, which produces the peculiar 
and characteristic effects of methylated spirit. Petroleum is 
readily removed by a little art, which the consumer soon 
acquires ; but some of the tipplers like the drink better when 
the petroleum is not removed. 

While acting as a powerful cerebro-spinal stimulant, methy- 
lated spirit produces a kind of intoxication, not like drunkenness, 
which is characterized by a state of mental exaltation, wakeful- 
ness, and a capacity for extended mental work very different 
from the drowsiness which follows the consumption of alcohol in 
its ordinary forms. It is rare to find anybody actually drunk 
from consuming it. The habitual methylated-spirit drinker is 
actively alert, and observes every detail, He is seldom talkative 
or seeks company, but is rather anxious for solitude. He develops 
a great capacity for lying, and his general appearance is that of a 
settled melancholy. Some of the drinkers are fond of tea ; but 
when they are inured to the fiery taste of methylated spirit, the 
strongest whisky tastes weak in comparison and is despised, 
just as the ardent whisky-drinker despises milder liquors. The 
habitual consumption of such a powerful spirit produces speedy 
effects. Cirrhosis of the liver, Bright's disease, albuminuria, 
enlarged spleen, peripheral neuritis, and the worst forms of 
nervous disease, are a consequence.'"' 

Ethek-drinking.— The consumption of ether as an intoxicant 
is very prevalent in some countries, as France, and especially 
among the poor people of Ireland, on account of the cheapness 
of methylated ether. Thousands of gallons are consumed yearly, 
and the habit and its effects on the small farmers and labouring 
people, who are its chief consumers, is as pernicious as that of 



304 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

opium-eating. The habit appears to have arisen about the time 
of Father Matthews' teetotal crusade, when people, forbidden to 
drink alcohol, found they could indulge in intoxication by drink- 
ing ether. The immediate etfects of this narcotic stimulant are 
very similar to those of alcohol, but very much more rapid. 
The stages of excitement, mental confusion, and loss of muscular 
control and consciousness, follow each other so quickly that they 
cannot be clearly delined from one another."'' It is always the 
methylated ether which is drunk, and usually in doses of 
2 drachms or teaspoonfuls in water ; but the inveterate drinkers 
can, by holding the nose, drink it without water, and their dose 
is usually half a wineglassful. The draught is repeated according 
to the desire or habit of the individual, sometimes ten or twenty 
such ' noggins ' being drunk daily. It is, however, only the 
immoderate drinkers who go into a stupor. Many are content 
not to go beyond the stage of exhilaration or excitement, when 
they become talkative and laugh hysterically or act maniacally. 
The efl'ect wears off rapidly, and the endeavour to renew the 
state of exhilaration induced by the first draught drives the con- 
sumer to take more and more of the stimulant, until it becomes a 
tyrannical al)use, leading to effects precisely opposite to those 
first arrived at.'-'^ If the dose is a very large one, the individual 
may fall down writhing and foaming at the mouth ; but even this 
soon passes off, and leaves him low, feeble, and depressed, which 
induces a repetition of the dose. All ether-drinkers agree that 
the intoxication is pleasurable ; but some know that it is a violent 
one, and the most violent intoxication is induced by drinking 
ether and v^hisky together. 

The remote effects of ether-^drinking are not well marked. 
There are no gross lesions like the shrinking of liver or brain pro- 
duced by alcohol. It is like a thief which steals away the brains 
without leaving a visible mark of its presence. It also induces 
chronic gastric catarrh, indigestion, irregular action of the heart, 
great nervous prostration and trembling, and causes a white or 
sallow complexion, but sometimes a very livid one.'"' One of the 
most terrible effects of ether-drinking is the profound moral 
degeneration which it produces, lying and stealing to obtain 
their favourite tipple being induced just the same as in other 
forms of narcotisDJ, and the districts in which the habit prevails 



STIMULANTS AND NAECOTICS 305 

always provide a large number of inhabitants for the lunatic 
asylums. There may be no direct connection between lunacy 
and ether-drinking, but the habit and the nervous degeneration 
which it induces are predisposing causes of lunacy. 

References : ^ Mann, Jour. Asiatic S'oc. Bengal, 1901, ii. - Andi-L', Bull, 
de Pharm. de Lyons, June, 1902. ^ Berl. dcr deutsch Cheni. Ges., ix., 1312. 
•* Zeit. fur Untcrsucli dcr Xahr. und Gcnm., 1902, v., 245. •' Nestler, Jour. 
Stale Med., April, 1902. ^ Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, iv., 261-402. '' Mitchell 
Bruce's 'Materia Medica.' ^Chemical News, October 10, 1873. ^ Ibid. 
1" Wanklyn, 76/(i. " Netolitzky, the ^wa^^M 1904, xxix., 9. ^'^The Tlierapist, 
November 15, 1905. ^^ Jackson, Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, iv., 421. i* Watts' 
'Dictionarjr of Chemistry.' '■'^ Balland, Jour. Chlm., [6], xx., 543. i** Ann. de 
Chun. Anal., 1904, 292. ^'' Ibid., 1899, 157-193. ^^ Chan. Centralb., 1899, ii., 
211. ^^ Bell. Scientific American, 1874, 197. "'" ' Year book of Pharmacy,' 1874, 
302, 359, 378; and 1900, 126. ■■^' The Analyst, 1904, xxix., 279. ^'^ Byasson, 
Jour, de Chim. Med., i., 11. '-^ The Analyst, September, 1905. '^ Ibid., 1897, 
xxii., 251. ^' Brit. Med. Jour., 1903, ii., 1081. -^ Bialet, Bevista Farmaceut 
{Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, vii., 4). 27 < Year-book of Pharmacy,' 1877, 133. 
'^ Utfelraann and Borner, Zeit. fur Ancjew. Chem., 1894, 716 -'* Topping, Amer. 
Pharm. Jour., October, 1894. 2" Carles, Chem. Centralb., 1896, ii., 552. ^^ Lyon 
Medica le, November 15, 1891. "- Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, xxii., 841. ^^ Pharm. 
Zeit. xlix., 505. ^* 'Cocoa: All about It.' ^^ Beckurts, Archiv cler Pharm., 
ccxxi., 687. '^*^ Ridenour, Am.. Jour. Pharm., 1901, 207. ^'' Wynter Blyth's 
'Manual of Foods.' ^^ Bastion, Amer. Jour. Pharm., August, 1894. ^^ Cohn, 
Zeit. fur Physiol. Chem., xx., 1-27. ^» The Analyst. 1890, xv., 119. ^^ Brit. 
Med. Jour. , April 29, 1876. *- Shuttleworth, Canad. Pharm. Jour., August, 1877. 
*' Dowdswell, The Lancet, May 1, 1876 ; -^^ Pharmacist, 1876, vii., 113. ■** Pharm. 
Zeit. fiir Buss.. 1876, 705. *'^ Berischte, xxxiv., 696 ('Year-book of Pharmacy,' 
1901, 122). ■*" Archiv de Pharm., 1898, 236. ■** Moore and Uowe, Jour. Physiol., 
1898,273. •*'* Thoms, Pharm. Centralb., xl., 706. "" ' Year-book of Pharmacy,' 
1895, 171. ^^ Zeit. fiir Untersuch der Nahr., 1903, vi., 682. ^2 Qkg.^n. Centralb., 
1900, i., 826. ** Pharm. Centralb., xl., 706. =^ Jour. Physiol., xviii., 272. 
55 Gawalowski, Oest. Zeit. fiir Pharm., Ivi., 432. ^^ Jour. Chem. Sac, Abstracts, 
1899, ii., 221. ^'^ Watts, loc. cit. ^s Lancet, 1887, i., 739. ^^ Watts, loc. cit. 
•>* Vine's 'Botany.' " Blyth, loc. cit. ^j Atwater, Proc. Amer. Physiol. Soc, 
December, 1899. ^'-^ Amer. Jour. Physiol., 1898, 164-209. ^ Brit. Med Jour., 
1890, ii. epit., 117. ^'^ Chem. Coitralb., 1900, i., 870. t^s Ringer's 'Therapeutics.' 
" Bruce, loc. cit. ^ Lancet, 1887, i., 739. ^^ Bruce, loc. cit. "" Blyth, loc. cit. 
"1 Comjit. Bendus, cii., 217. ^'^ 0. Hehner, the Analyst, xxx., February, 1905. 
" Compt. Bendus, civ., 1187. '■* The Lancet, March 28, 1898. '^ Ann. de Chim. 
Ancd., 1901, vi., 409. ™ Magnan, Bevue de Hygiene, 1890, 909. '"' Lancet, 
1887, i., 739. ''^ Ibid. " Blyth, loc. cit. «" The Analyst, 1904, xxix.. 149. 
^' Ibid., xxx., September, 1905. "'- Boucliardat, 'The Use of Alcoholic Liquors.' 
^'i •Year-book of Pharmacy,' 1874, 378. 84 /^^v/., 1878, 140. 8' Ihid.. 1876, 361. 
^'^ Watts, loc. cit. 8' Blyth, loc. cit. ss The Anahjst, 1890, xv., 124. ^^ Bruce, 
loc. cU. »" Ringer, fof. Cii!. »i Allen, TAe ^M<ysi!,'l902, 184. ^^ Ibid. "»' Year- 
book of Pharmacy, 1874, 277. "■' Jagielski, Brit. Med. Jour., February 21, 1874. 
"^ Pharm. Jour., 3rd series, xxi., 301. ^ McWater, Jour. State Med. ^1902, 449. 
87 Brit. Med. Jour. 1890, ii., 885. **» Ibid., 1894, ii., 960. ^'' i6i:c^. 



20 



306 POOD AND HYGIENE 

CHAPTER XVIII 
WATER 

Water, which is a combination of hydrogen and oxygen, forms 
more than half the bulk of our body. Our daily requirement 
amounts to 70 or 80 fluid ounces ; its consideration is therefore 
a matter of prime importance. Water is an absolute necessity 
of life ; without it all living things would be dried up and life 
cease to exist. So important is it to mankind that the ancient 
towns and villages always grew near to such a water-supply as a 
river, stream, spring, or where it could be obtained by digging a 
well. The advantages of an abundant supply of pure water were 
written about by Hippocrates, and later by Pliny and other ancient 
writers. The cost of a pure water-supply to cities has always 
been a considerable item. In India, Ceylon, Carthage, and other 
places, the remains of large reservoirs are to be seen, and aque- 
ducts exist in Rome and elsewhere. In modern times millions of 
pounds are spent in providing this necessary element for large 
cities, to l)ring it from gathering-grounds far distant from the 
consumers, in storing and distributing it, or in sinking artesian 
wells to bring it up from the enormous underground lakes and 
reservoirs. 

The amount required by the body is in proportion to 
that which leaves the body daily through the skin, lungs, and 
kidneys, the average of which is 4 pints. Probably one-third 
of this is made good by our food, leaving from 2| to 3 pints 
of liquid to be drunk daily in the form of water, tea, coffee, 
cocoa, milk, beer, or other beverage. Pure water is by far the 
safest and best beverage, and should be taken with or at the 
close of the meal, or about a couple of hours afterwards. A 
moderate amount of water drunk slowly at the end of a meal 
stimulates the contractions of the stomach, disperses wind, 
dilutes any undue acidity, and in this manner promotes digestion. 
Internally it acts as a diluent of the blood, as a solvent of 
waste materials which it carries away, and promotes changes in 
the cellular tissues or metabolism. It is of great value by flush- 
ing the kidneys and dissolving or washing out from the tissues 
those waste materials of metabolism which are so productive of 



WATEE 307 

gout, rheumatism, gravel, liver, kidney, and other diseases, and 
is useful even in Bright's disease and diabetes. Healthy persons 
should drink a tumblerful of cold water slovply ab tlie end of their 
meals ; weakly or thin persons may encourage their appetite by 
taking it in frequent sips during the meal; it assists them to 
take more food, by its absorption it fills out their intercellular 
spaces and improves their health or increases weight. Excessive 
water-drinking may, but rarely, cause weakly individuals to waste 
and become thinner, and increase nervous irritability. 

Good drinking-water should be clear, bright, and sparkling, 
almost without colour or taste, and quite free from smell. It 
should be obtained from some well-known and uncontaminated 
source, and yield but little residue when evaporated to dryness. 
There should be no undue proportion of solids, especially of lime 
or magnesia salts ; ordinarily the solids ought not to exceed 8 or 
10 grains per gallon ; even in chalk water there should not be 
more than 14 grains, 1 grain of which should be dissipated by 
heat. The amount of albuminoid ammonia should be less than 
0'08 per million parts ; water which contains 0'05 per million in 
company with much free ammonia should be looked upon with 
suspicion. It should contain very few micro-organisms, especially 
bacteria. Chemical analysis no longer holds the first or most 
important place in the examination of drinking-water. The 
determination of the presence of nitrites by chemical examination 
is enough to excite suspicion of the wholesomeness of the water ; 
but the presence of micro-organisms, especially the Bacillus coll 
communis, streptococcus, and B. enteritidis sporogenes, is of more 
importance than chemical substances, and they may be present 
in dangerous quantities in a water in which chemical analysis 
has not detected any important impurity. A bacteriological 
analysis is therefore necessary before pronouncing upon the 
fitness or otherwise of a particular water for household con- 
sumption ; and it is of more importance to determine what type 
of bacteria are present by the microscope than the number 
per c.c. Koch formulated the following bacteriological standard 
for waters : 

With to 100 bacteria per c.c. it is a good potable water. 
,, 100 to 500 ,, ,, a suspicious water. 

,, 500 to 1,000 or more ,, an impure water. 

20—2 



308 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Very hard water is a cause of goitre and cretinism, which are 
common in some countries of Europe, but are not common in 
Great Britain, although they are seen in the South of England 
and Derbyshire ; it is likewise credited with being a cause of 
stone in the bladder or kidneys, and undoubtedly aggravates 
gouty and rheumatic conditions. 

Water is derived from the rain and snow which fall upon the 
earth's surface, having been previously evaporated from the sea, 
lakes, rivers, and vegetation. Some of the rain which falls upon 
the earth percolates through the soil to a variable depth, and 
forms the subterranean sources of water which find a natural 
outlet in springs, or supplies the wells which are dug by man in 
the strata of the earth. 

Water is pure as it leaves the clouds, but in its passage to the 
earth it absorbs various impurities ; among these are small pro- 
portions of ammonia, nitric and nitrous acids, and, near the sea, 
chloride of sodium. In towns, it likewise absorbs sulphurous 
acid from the coal and gas consumed, besides sooty particles, 
and, in running off roofs, animal and vegetable debris. In 
addition to chemical ingredients, it collects from the air numer- 
ous microbes — bacteria, bacilli, micrococci, protococci, pollen of 
flowers and grasses, spores of fungi, etc. In the first showers 
which followed a long dry time. Dr. Miguel found over one 
hundred thousand of such organisms in a pint of water. An 
analysis of rain water, the first which fell in London after a long 
dry time in 1903, showed it to contain, according to the Lancet, 
the following : Total solid matter, 9'1 grains per gallon, including 
common salt 0-8, ammonium sulphate 0-65, organic ammonia 0-01, 
soot and suspended matter 5 grains. The ammonium sulphate 
and soot were largely due to the combustion of coal. The 
rainfall for five days was 3 '8 inches, and was calculated 
equal to 22,622 gallons of water per acre; it washed out of the 
air of the county of London 3,738 tons of impurities, including 
330 tons of common salt, 267 tons of sulphate of ammonia, and 
2,000 tons of soot and other suspended matters, whereby it is 
shown that rain is a mechanical, physical, chemical, and 
bacteriological purifier of the atmosphere. 

Soft Water. — The rain is a great purifier of the atmosphere, 
for which reason the rain water of towns is entirely unfit for 



WATER 309 

drinking and cooking purposes. If rain water must be used for 
drinking and cooking purposes, which happens in some districts, 
it should be stored in as pure a condition as possible ; otherwise 
the cistern will soon get coated with slime and putrescent 
matters which poison the water. It should never be stored in 
lead, zinc, iron, or galvanized iron cisterns, nor collected from a 
metal roof, because of its solvent power ; drinking such water 
would probably produce symptoms of metallic poisoning. It 
sJiould always be filtered before drinkincj it. Boiled soft water is 
the best for toilet purposes, especially for those who have a 
tender skin or desire to have a good complexion ; hard water, on 
the other hand, may cause roughness of the skin, or even a kind 
of eczema and other skin troubles in persons whose epidermis is 
thin or tender. 

Hard Water. — Water which has been in contact with the earth 
and filtered or percolated through it has absorbed carbonic acid 
gas, and become thereby a ready solvent of some of the mineral 
constituents, especially those of the chalk, limestone or sandstone, 
which convert it into hard water ; indeed, the water from some 
springs contains a very large amount of saline and other mineral 
constituents which render it very hard and unpalatable, but 
valuable as a medicinal water. Another effect of the percolation 
of water through the earth is the removal of organic debris and 
micro-organisms (such water may again become polluted by 
passing through soil laden with impurities or by pollution of the 
well or spring). Hard water contains salts of lime and magnesia 
in solution, which may be beneficial to the health to a certain 
extent and under special conditions ; the absence of such salts is, 
at any rate, considered prejudicial. Thus, the city of Glasgow is 
supplied by a soft, clear water of great purity from Loch Katrine, 
but the prevalence of rickets in the children of that city is 
attributed to the absence of lime from the water ; on the other 
hand, the absence of lime and magnesia from water is of great 
economical value to the people, for the softer the water the less 
soap is required. Loch Katrine contains 1 grain of lime per gallon, 
and is called a soft loater ; ordinary drinking-water contains from 
3 to 10 or more grains of lime per gallon, and the number of 
grains per gallon are called the degrees of hardness. One grain of 
carbonate of lime requires 8 grains of soap to precipitate it. The 



310 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

hardness is said to be tcyivporary when the water can be softened 
by boiUng, the salts being deposited as slate or fur upon the 
kettle or boiler; the degrees of hardness which cannot be removed 
by boiling are called ijermanent, and are due to the presence of 
salts of lime and magnesia, which are not held in solution by 
carbonic acid gas. 

Drinking-waters are classified thus by the Eivers Pollution 
Commissioners : 



n. Spring -water. \ 

"VVholesomeJ 2. Deep well water. -Very palatable. 

\ 3. Upland surface water. J 

o • • f 4. Stored rain or soft water. 1 nr j <- i i 4. ui 

Suspicious- K Q f 4- f M.- i A ^ -i -Moderately palatable. 

^ ^^5. Surface water trora cultivated land, j -^ ^ 

j 6. River water to which sewage gains 1 

Dangerous < access. VPalatable. 

[7. Shallow well water. J 



I. Surface waters include upland, moorland, and river waters 
generally. 

U'pland loater is that which flows down hills and mountains, 
forming rivulets and streams, and can be collected into reservoirs 
of sufficient capacity to supply a large town for several months. 
It is sometimes very soft, as that of Loch Katrine, gathered from 
the surrounding hills and used for the supply of Glasgow ; some- 
times it is discoloured, as that of the Wicklow hills, due to its 
having passed through peaty matter, when it should be filtered, 
although peat is not injurious per se. Upland water is usually 
very pure, and approaches more nearly to rain water in composi- 
tion than that from any other source. 

Moorland ivaters are derived from streains and rivers which 
pass through moorlands and uncultivated lands away from human 
habitations. They are utilized by Glasgow, Leeds, Halifax, 
Wakefield, Manchester, Liverpool, Swansea, Okehampton, etc. 

The rivers and streams which pass through cultivated lands 
and valleys near towns and villages are used to supply water to 
some very important cities, as Aberdeen, York, Chester, and 
London ; but they should always be regarded with suspicion, 
unless the catchment areas are under the control of the authority 
which supplies the water, and they are duly guarded against 
pollution of animal origin by the entrance into them of 



WATER 311 

subsoil drainage from manured lands, or the sewage from towns 
and villages, or refuse from manufactories on their banks. Most 
river water is hard, containing 3 to 18 or even 25 grains of 
calcium and magnesium salts, their solution being aided by 
carbonic acid, derived from the soil over or through which it 
passes. The danger of river water is chiefly due to the possi- 
bility of organic impurities rather than to the salts contained, 
even the most careful preparation and filtration being scarcely 
adequate for its entire purification from bacteria. 

II. Springs. — Some of the rain which falls upon the earth's 
surface evaporates, another portion flows off, and the remainder 
sinks into the soil. The water percolates through the porous 
strata, such as sand, sandstone, gravel, or chalk, until it reaches 
a hard, impermeable stratum of clay or rock ; such a firm stratum 
forms an underground basin or reservoir in which the water 
accumulates, the level in it varying according to the rainfall and 
season of the year. From such sources are wells and springs 
supplied. As it passes through the earth the water is deprived 
of those impurities which it absorbed while falling as rain or 
flowing over the surface of the ground, but the carbonic acid in it 
renders it a ready solvent of lime, magnesia, and other salts, 
which make the water hard, but palatable. Water which has 
passed through the chalk or oolite is very efficiently filtered, and 
so is that filtered through sandstone, greensand, or Hastings 
sand. Much less efficiently filtered are those which have merely 
passed through the upper strata of the earth. Springs afford 
good supplies of water ; they are formed by the appearance on 
the surface or the ' outcrop ' of the impermeable stratum, which 
prevents the water from sinking further into the earth. The 
underground water is constantly tending to its level by the aid 
of gravitation : the earth's strata dip down, so the water trickles 
slowly through the interstices of the earth to the lowest level of 
the impermeable layer which forms the underground basin or 
reservoir, and where such a layer crops out on the surface of the 
earth the water springs forth. Such a spring is valuable, and 
should be guarded from pollution by building around it, and 
conveying the water to the surface by a short pipe. Many towns 
derive their supply wholly or partially from such springs, as 
Bath, Cheltenham, Bristol, Stroud, Bournemouth, Chepstow, 



312 • FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Poole, Swindon, and Yeovil ; and the waters contain solid con- 
stituents, varying from 8 to 42 grains per gallon. 

III. Wells are deep or shallow perforations of artificial origin 
into the crust of the earth. Deep ivells are such as perforate the 
hard, impermeable layer which holds up the water of shallow 
wells. The water has usually travelled a great distance since it 
fell upon the earth ; it is, therefore, generally well filtered and 
palatable, and natui-ally free from organic impurities, and hard 
by reason of its containing 18 to 80 grains of earthy salts per 
gallon. Many towns and cities derive their supply partly or 
wholly from such sources, as Birkenhead, Southport, Coventry, 
Wolverhampton, Warrington, Nottingham, Harwich, Leamington, 
Windsor, Worthing, Guildford, Stroud, Sudbury, Colchester, 
Canterbury, Folkestone, Brighton, Eastbourne, and Hastings. 
Deep wells are liable to become polluted when in the neighbour- 
hood of sewage farms, cemeteries, or isolation hospitals, and in 
other ways ; it is therefore advisable that they should be bricked 
and steined to a good depth to exclude all possible contamination 
by surface water. When so protected they seldom become 
polluted, although it may even then be possible for the liquid 
from sewers, cesspools, or crew-yards to find its way through 
cracks or fissures in the rock, and be a source of danger to the 
consumer. Shalloiv ivells are such as tap the subsoil water, 
which is held up by an impermeable stratum, so as to form 
small superficial basins or reservoirs. Most wells in the country 
belong to this class ; they vary from 12 to 30 or more feet in 
depth, and are very liable to be polluted. ' The common practice 
in villages, and even in many small towns, is to dispose of the 
sewage and provide for the water-supply of each cottage on the 
premises. Ir the little yard or garden attached to each tenement 
or pair of tenements two holes are dug in the porous soil. Into 
one of these, usually the shallower, all the filthy liquids of the 
house are discharged ; from the other, which is sunk below the 
water-line of the porous stratum, the water for drinking and 
other domestic purposes is pumped. These holes are frequently 
within 12 feet of each other, and sometimes closer. The contents 
of the cesspool gradually soak away through the surrounding 
soil and mingle with the water below ; as the contents of the 
YPell are pumped out they are replenished frpm the surrounding 



WATEE 313 

disgusting mixture ' (Tlie Eivers Pollution Conamissioners Sixth 
Eeport). 

It was estimated in 1893 that twelve million people in Great 
Britain were drawing their water-supply from shallow wells. It 
has been found that such a well drains an area of ground at least 
four times its depth in every direction around it. The common 
experience of sanitary medical officers and inspectors is that they 
are nearly always more or less polluted by sewage and animal 
matters of the most disgusting origin. When such a water is 
filtered through a few feet of soil, it may be very clear and 
palatable, and is often consumed year after year without its 
character being suspected, until the cesspool and well receive 
sewage which is infected by disease, and an outbreak of such 
disease compels attention to the well. Such wells are polluted 
by leakage from drains, privies, cesspools, urine from manure 
heaps or crew-yards ; the putrid matters percolate into the soil, 
and may be washed straight into the well during a heavy rain. 
A water which is usually bright, clear, and sparkling, having a 
pure and deceptive appearance, may become after rain so turbid 
and unpleasant to smell and taste that nobody would think 
of drinking it. If a portion of such water be put in a bottle, 
corked down, and kept in a warm place for a short time, it will 
be very productive of living forms, recognisable under the micro- 
scope, and the following simple test for organic matter will reveal 
its impurity : To a tumblerful of cold water fresh from the well 
add as much Condy's fluid or permanganate of potash as will 
produce a ruby colour. Cover the tumbler to exclude dust and 
other extraneous particles, and the organic matter in the water 
will be oxidized and deposited as a brownish sediment, or the 
colour of the liquid changed to a dirty brown or red. The 
amount of sediment is a test of the purity of the water ; the 
less deposit there is, the purer the water, and vice versa. If 
the colour wholly or partially disappears after a few minutes, 
organic matter is present in quantity, but if it retains its colour 
for twelve hours and no sediment appears it may be considered 
uncontaminated. A water of known purity, as tap water, 
distilled water, or rain water, freshly collected in a clean vessel, 
can be tested at the same time for comparison. Distilled water is 
the best, and will retain its colour. A water which contains much 



314 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

deposit when tested in this rough-and-ready way should be 
submitted to an analyst for examination before being used for 
domestic purposes. 

The pollution of wells may be prevented by proper attention to 
their construction, as well as that of the other sanitary arrange- 
ments of the premises. The drains upon the premises should 
consist of glazed earthenware pipes with socket-joints, made 
with Portland cement or well-puddled clay ; cesspools and privies 
should be made watertight by cement ; manure should be stored 
in proper pantapits, which are drained. The well should not be 
sunk within an area which is liable to be contaminated by the 
foregoing sources of pollution — that is, they should not be within 
four times the depth of the well in every direction. The drainage 
into the well varies with the nature of the soil or subsoil. Thus, 
a well will drain an area of gravel or fine sand equal to twenty or 
forty times the depression of the water in it ; or an area of 
coarse gravel equal to sixty-eight or one hundred and sixty times 
the depression of the water ; or even a larger area of sandstone, 
chalk, or other rock in which there may be extensive fissures. 
Owing to smallness of the area of land, it is not always possible 
to have the well so far away from the other sanitary arrange- 
ments ; the well ought then to be bricked down to the imper- 
meable stratum, and the bricks laid in cement to exclude surface- 
water and the possibility of pollution by unsavoury matters from 
the midden, cesspool, drains, or manure-pit. 

Besides organic pollution by the bacteria of disease and from 
the sources named above, the water may contain hosts of other 
microbes and fungi, such as the Beggiatoa alba or sewage fungus, 
amoebae, infusoria (vorticellae, paramecia, stentor), anguillulee 
or water-worms, rotifera or wheel animalculae, Daphnia ^jM^eic 
or water-flea, the larvae of gnats and other insects, the embryo 
or eggs of various worms, such as tape, round, or thread worms, 
distoma or liver-fluke, and filaria or bilharzia, which may all 
infect the human organism. Other refuse in the water may 
consist of the fibres of cotton, linen, paper ; even hairs and other 
animal matters have been found, indicative of pollution of human 
origin, probably by sewage. Water likewise has the power of 
absorbing gases, which may gain access to it in a thousand ways ; 
it should, therefore, never be stored in the hovise in an open 



WATEE 315 

vessel, for under the most favourable circumstances it deteriorates, 
becomes flat and insipid, and may get polluted. It is, unfor- 
tunately, in the houses of the poor where there is the necessity 
for this ; it is often stored in wooden butts or other vessels, 
which are liable to rot or become filthy. Water should be 
freshly drawn from its source when it is required for drinking or 
cooking, thereby avoiding the accidental contaminations to which 
it is liable when stored for a few hours. 

The water-supply of towns and cities is a matter of great 
importance, seeing that impure water is a frequent cause of 
disease to those who drink it, and deficiency of this element 
means want of cleanliness and comfort, with its concomitant 
dangers. The supply of water to towns from a distance may be 
constant or intermittent. A constant supply is preferable, the 
mains being constantly charged with water, and no storage being 
required. When the supply is intermittent the mains are not 
always charged at high pressure, and water can only be drawn at 
certain periods of the day ; storage is therefore necessarj'. The 
storage of water is a great drawback to the intermittent form of 
water-supply ; stored water becomes flat and insipid, and is 
liable to become polluted in many cases by sewer air, soot, dust, 
and other accidental forms of contamination. The cistern in 
which it is stored may be a source of danger. Thus, zinc and 
lead are sometimes soluble, and water stored in cisterns of these 
materials may give rise to poisonous symptoms ; iron may rust 
and discolour the water ; galvanized iron is usually safe, but has 
been known to give zinc salts to the water ; slate makes a 
valuable cistern, but the joints should be made with cement, and 
not with red or white lead. Stoneware cisterns are the best : they 
give up nothing to the water, and are easily cleaned. The supply 
of water through leaden pipes is a possible source of danger to the 
consumer. A soft water acts most readily on lead, and dissolves 
a small portion of the oxide of that metal; but hard water, 
which contains the salts of lime and silica, has little power of 
dissolving lead — in fact, by their precipitation the salts soon form 
a protecting coat of fur or siate over the interior of the pipe, and 
so effectually prevent any further solution of the metal. This 
has been imitated in some towns which have a soft-water supply 
by filtering the liquid through beds of flint or sand and a thin 



316 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

coating of lime, so that enough Hme and silica are taken up to 
harden the water, and give a protective coating to the leaden 
pipes. Another source of lead solvency lies in the fact that 
some of the waters are derived from districts in which peat 
abounds ; such waters are slightly acid, owing to the presence of 
two special bacterial organisms derived from the peat, and the 
acidity which they produce renders them a solvent of lead, and has 
been the cause of epidemics of lead-poisoning, as at Sheffield. 

The purification of water is done on a large or small scale by 
methods of filtration. Pure water is clear, bright, and sparkling, 
of bluish or greenish colour, tasteless, and free from smell. 
Polluted water which is well aerated may also be clear, bright, 
and sparkling, but often has a disagreeable taste, and gives off 
an unpleasant odour upon being gently warmed. Such a water 
may be highly charged with organic impurities of a dangerous 
character and swarm with bacteria. By the purification of 
water a large amount of such impurities can be removed. 
Boiling the water softens it, destroys organic matters, 
microbes, fungi, infusoria, etc., and effectually destroys the 
bacteria of enteric, cholera, scarlet and other fevers, in a few 
minutes. Filtration removes this and other debris. When 
purification is done on a large scale, as for a town, Clark's 
process of ' driving out lime by lime ' is used ; by this method 
the teviporary liardncss of water is considerably reduced. When 
lime or lime water is added to hard water, more carbonate of lime 
is formed by the union of the added lime with the free carbonic 
acid of the water ; when this occurs the newly-formed carbonate 
of lime and that which was previously held in solution by the 
carbonic acid gas are precipitated together, and carry down with 
them a good deal of the organic matter and other impurities of 
the water ; the water is then allowed to settle for twelve hours, 
and afterwards filtered. Filtration is a useful mode of purifica- 
tion. When done on a large scale, the filter consists of tanks of 
brick 6 or 9 inches thick, open to the air, and having the bottom 
covered first with a layer of bricks, 6 inches; next gravel, 6 inches; 
and lastly sand, 2 feet 6 inches. This arrangement allows for the 
filtration of 4-5 cubic feet of water per hour through a square foot 
of area. After filtration the water should be stored in covered 
reservoirs to protect it from the sun and contamination. Water 



WATEE 317 

can also be filtered on a small scale through gravel and sand, or 
through charcoal and magnetic or spongy iron. Filters are not 
all good ; some of them become a source of pollution to the 
water owing to neglect or difficulty in cleaning them ; hence 
water may be worse after being filtered than before it. The 
worst filters are those made of charcoal. Many good ones are 
sold, as Bischoff's spongy-iron filter, the Pasteur-Ghamberland, 
and the Berkfield filters. 

Diseases due to Drinking Impure Water. — Dyspepsia and 
diarrhoea may follow drinking very hard water, especially by 
visitors to a district drinking water which is harder than 
they are accustomed to. The symptoms are due to excess of 
lime and magnesia, or chlorides of other salts. Diarrhoea of 
a severe type may be caused by drinkmg water which is con- 
taminated by sewage. It is not uncommon for people to drink 
such water for years without ill-effect — indeed, some persons are 
said to fatten upon it — but as soon as a stranger drinks it a very 
marked effect follows. Infantile diarrhoea in towns may be due 
to the use of water which has been stored in cisterns in the 
summer-time, when it becomes a hotbed of bacteria capable of 
causing this disease. Dysentery in hot climates is due to 
drinking water which contains the Ainceba coli ; cholera is also 
caused by drinking contaminated water. The same remark 
applies to enteric fever, which was largely spread during the 
South African War by the consumption of water contaminated 
by the excreta of fever patients. Many other diseases of a 
specific character are due to a similar origin ; calculus, gravel, 
gout, rheumatism, and goitre may have their origin in or be 
aggravated by the consumption of very hard water. Care should 
always be taken to insure the adequate protection of the source 
of supply : the gathering-grounds and head-waters should be 
strictly examined to eliminate infection. Throughout their 
course waters should be covered in, and, finally, they should 
be filtered before being sent into the service-pipes for the supply 
of households. When river or well water is used, great care is 
required to insure its purity, especially when the source is in a 
confined area or the neighbourhood of a farmstead, by particular 
attention to the drains, cesspool, privy, or other possible sources 
of contamination. 



318 FOOD AND HYGIENE 



NATURAL MINERAL WATERS. 

The value of ordinary water as a dietetic beverage, as well 
as the solvent action of pure water upon the waste materials of 
the body, and its valuable effect in gout, rheumatism, lithsBmia, 
and similar troubles connected with deficient oxidation and 
metabolism, has been already commented on. There are 
waters in almost every part of the globe which depart from the 
normal characteristics of drinking-water, inasmuch as they 
contain an excess of inorganic substances, salts of soda, lime, 
magnesia, potash, iron, manganese, iodine, bromine, lithium, 
barium, small traces of arsenic, copper, zinc, strontium, and 
the rarer elements — argon, helium, radium, and such gases as 
sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphurous acid, carbonic acid, nitrogen, 
and oxygen. An excess of these substances renders the water 
unpleasant or otherwise unsuitable for ordinary domestic pur- 
poses, but in many instances makes of it a valuable medicinal 
agent. The remedial value of such water is sometimes out of all 
proportion to the quantity of the principal elements contained in 
it. Thus, for instance, it would be an error to suppose that the 
value of a water was in proportion to the amount of gas contained 
in it, for a large quantity of the gas is expelled almost as soon as 
the water is swallowed ; nor in proportion to the quantity of 
sulphate of sodium and magnesium contained in it. Many 
attempts have been made to imitate such waters in the laboratory ; 
but, however admirably prepared, they are only pharmaceutical 
preparations, and are destitute of the qualities which distinguish 
those made in Nature's laboratory. For instance, a tumblerful 
of Friedrichshall water contains 24 grains of magnesium and 
20 grains of sodium sulphates, with 30 grains of sodium and 
19 grains of magnesium chlorides ; but it is a curious fact that 
the artificial product is not at all equal in effect to that of the 
natural one. What constitutes the difference it would be very 
difficult to say, but the consensus of opinion is all in favour of 
the natural product. ' To give the name of Vichy Water to 
a solution of bicarbonate of soda is as absurd as to give the 
name of wine to a mixture of cream of tartar, alcohol, and 
mineral salts, which this liquid is proved to be when analyzed. 



WATEE 319 

Go to the natural springs ; Nature is far better than the 
laboratory ' (Bousdon). Eecent analyses prove that some of our 
mineral waters contain traces of radium, helium, and other rare 
elements. The ions dissociated from chemical compounds exert 
a great influence over the physiological processes of the body ; and 
the presence of ions in an electrical condition probably makes the 
chief difference between natural and artificial mineral waters. 

The general usefulness of mineral waters in the treatment of 
disease has been recognised for thousands of years. The Greeks 
and Eomans highly valued all waters having curative properties, 
and they were strongly recommended by the medical men of 
their day — witness the remains of luxurious baths to be now 
seen in many places. It has been suggested that one cause of 
their usefulness is the high dilution of the mineral constituents, 
for many persons, who have taken the chief constituent of such 
waters in medicinal doses with little effect, have made good 
progress when they have taken mineral waters containing the 
very same drug. Sir H. Thompson said : ' Let me caution you 
against regarding the small doses of mineral in the water as 
having any afiinity either in the matter of quantity or by manner 
of administration with what is understood as homoeopathic 
doses. . . , There is something, which I do not pretend to 
explain, which distinguishes the action of natural mineral waters 
from the action of salts which are produced pharmaceutically.' 
It is true that the minerals in such waters are in a high state of 
dilution, which necessitates the drinking of a greater bulk of 
liquid. We have seen that water, even distilled water which 
contains no minerals, is a diluent and solvent, and a great 
promoter of the metabolic processes of the body ; and water 
containing a drug like iodine, bromine, lithium, or the alkaline 
salts in a state of great dilution, when taken in bulk, flushes the 
cells with these constituents, and helps to bring about more 
rapidly those changes which result in the alleviation or cure 
of disease. 

Balneo-therapeutics, or treatment by baths, has advanced 
considerably of late years, and its physiological effects are better 
understood than formerly, the mineral water being used for 
water, steam, or mud baths, as well as for douches, sprays, and 
inhalations. When combined with massage, electricity, proper 



320 FOOD x\ND HYGIENE 

diet and exercise, or various other forms of discipline, they are 
a valuable method of treatment for many diseases. Baths of 
various degrees of heat are used : The cold bath, of 32° to 65° F., 
cools the blood and stimulates the heart and circulation ; the 
tepid bath, from 75° to 90° F., is used for cleansing the 
skin and lowering the temperature ; the warm bath, of 90° to 
100° F., relaxes the skin, induces perspiration, and soothes pain 
or relaxes spasm; the hot bath, 100° to 110° or 115° F., seldom 
used as a general bath, but very frequently as a local bath or 
douche or fomentation, stimulates the circulation, softens 
indurated tissues, relieves pain, spasms, or cramp, promotes 
perspiration and the flow of urine. The fundamental principle 
of all baths, whether of plain or medicinal water, appears to be 
to soften and purify the skin, to encourage perspiration, accelerate 
the circulation, and stimulate the functions of the kidneys ; 
the nervous system is calmed, muscular irritability lessened, 
metabolism increased, and absorption of exudations promoted. 
Discussion has taken place as to whether there is any actual 
absorption of the salts from mineral waters during a bath ; some 
authorities deny that there is, others assert that there is a deposit 
of fine crystals upon the skin, which continue to exert their 
influence as a chemical and physical stimulus upon the terminal 
branches of the nerves for some period after the cessation of the 
baths. 

Disappointment sometimes follows the use of mineral waters 
when taken by the mouth or applied to the skin. This may 
result from the fact that the patient is not acquainted with the 
proper method of using them, or that he has arrived at the health 
resort with obstructed functions and a general lowered tone of 
the body, which require preliminary treatment. Proper measures 
ought therefore to be taken under medical supervision to remove 
disorders of the digestive and assimilating organs and otherwise 
raise the tone of the system before undergoing the treatment at 
a watering-place. The pure air, out-of-door life, intelligently 
regulated diet, regular exercise and habits of a health resort, are 
valuable in a great number of diseases, and, when combined with 
drinking the water, the tissue changes are increased, toxic 
materials are eliminated, appetite is restored, and nutrition 
stimulated. Bathing with the water at a low or moderate 



WATEE 321 

temperature stimulates the nervous system, and at a higher 
temperature cahiis it, increases the activity of the skin, deepens 
respiration, increases pulmonary circulation, and carries nutrition 
to the lungs and all parts of the body. In gouty and rheu- 
matic diseases the entire system is invigorated, circulation 
and tissue changes are promoted, and the elimination of the 
materies morbi is encouraged. Even if there be no absorption of 
the mineral constituents by the skin, bathing and douching 
excites the peripheral circulation, and softens exudations, 
while absorption is further encouraged by massage. The 
hygienic mode of life, the relief from physical and mental 
tension, and change of scenery, all contribute to an improved 
general condition with marked success. Judicious hydrotherapy, 
combined with massage and electricity, has likewise been of 
value in many nervous cases. The spinal douche is an effective 
agent in stimulating nervous tissues and invigorating nerve 
centres. In irritable or hyperaesthetic conditions the nervous 
system may be calmed by warm baths and gentle massage, and 
drinking some of the mineral waters tones and invigorates the 
nervous system. 

Attempt is here made to classify some of the most important 
waters in Europe and America. No pretence is made of this 
being a complete list, but sufficient examples are given to show 
the main constituents of the waters and the diseases for which 
they are most beneficial. 

TABLE WATERS. 

These are waters which may be consumed freely at all times — 
at meals, between meals, alone or combined with spirits, wine, 
fruit syrup, or milk. They vary in their chemical composition : 
some are gaseous, owing to the presence of free carbonic acid 
gas, which makes them bright, sparkling, and palatable ; nearly all 
contain a varying proportion of alkaline carbonates and chlorides. 
Apollinaris and Seltzer waters are among the best known, and 
are alkaline and effervescent. Another kind of table water is 
that which has been distilled — e.g., Salutaris, which has been 
first converted into steam and then condensed, and may be still 
or aerated ; its puricy is absolute. Table waters are not without 

21 





a 




Ferrand, 

Bischof. 

Mohr. 

Attfield. 

Taylor. 

Fresenius. 

Plaskuda, 

Bischof. 

Wanklyn, 


■g <d' 

CD > 

<^ t, 


Chandler. 

Rogers. 

Rathbone. 




8|| 
ill 


1—1 

1 O 
l-H 


•-jT-HOlv- loo 00 lt-C3 It- 

fl5C<IrH[]q (Ml— 1 I-Hi-H 7-1 


CO CO 1 

,—1 r-l 1 


O 1 00 1 CD 
t- 1 00 1 00 




d 

- 


3 

3 

3 


O (M CO 

CO 


CO <p lO O p 

■<*0'-ico| i4-i-^t-c<i| ICO 


O .-1 1 

r-i 1 


1 o CO th I 

1 CO 1 




> 
3 

3 

5 


CO o o 
6 CO (N 
CO 


COt-CqOOt-QOOt^fNcDCOCM 
CO CO OSi-Ht-rHC-rffOOt- 
iH r-t i-l 


CO •i}< CO 
CO 
I— 1 


(M 00 lo cq 

1 O O Al tH 

' CO 




o 
a 

H 

<; 
la 

< 





ip o o 
6 t- 00 

J— i 


irSi-HCOrH t-H T-HCOlMCOrHt- 


CQ »p p >p Cq 

oAtcoociT^cbib 

O iH i-l 1— 1 

I— 1 


r3 

r~l CO 

<ri 8 


1 

3 


9 9 9 

c- 05 i) 

tH CO 


O'^TiHt-O'COlt-OT-Hi— linos 
»jOi-( iH OSCMi— lTt<»0(M<MTH 


GO (N 

COOJiOfMi^C-OfM 
W5 rH T}i CO CO iC 


3 
o 


o 
1 1 t- 

1 1 (M 


qq -^ >p p o 

oii-oQOxOtHcbxt-ino loi 
COi-HQOO -^os^t^los 


CO 

1 t- 00 

1 CO 


T-H >P 'P 
1 O 1 tH tH 

1 1 1—1 


' Co 

- 1 


0) 

1 

3 
5 

IT 
D. 

m 


'=^ 'cs 5^ ^ ^j ^^ ^ 

^ O o CO tc CO oa 

*t^<l<t5 <1 <J <J <1 1> CO cc <1<I <fj <<! <1 <ti p^ <J piH <ij <1 <: <3 




6 

ZJ 

u 
P 
o 

CfQ 

O 

o 

1 

3 

CO 


England 

Aude, France 

Puy de Dome, France 


Loire, France 
Ardeche, France 
Neuenahr, Germany 
Nassau, Germany 
Hartz, Germany 
Frankfort, Germany 
Kronthall, Germany 
Germany 

Eifel Mountains, Germany 
Nassau, Germany 
Bonn, Gerinany 
Homburg, Germany 
Prussia, Germany 


Ober-Hessen, Germany 
Belgium 

Carlsbad, Bohemia 
Corsica 
Maine, U.S.A. 
Virginia, U.S.A. 
Waukesha, Wis., U.S.A. 
Alpine Co., California, 
U.S.A. 






_....._ 




l 




Bath (Sulis) 

Alet 

Chateldon 


St. Galmier 
Desaignes 
ApoUinaris 
Selters ... 
Sauerbrunnen . . 
Taunus ... 
Wilhelmsquelle . . 

Ems 

Gerolstein 
Johannisbrunnen 
Roisdorf ... 
Rosbach ... 
Birresborn 


Roman Spa 
Spa, ' Pouhon ' . . 
Giesshiibler 
Orezza ... 

Poland 

Sweet Spring .. 
Clymir Spring .. 
Soda Spring 



Cl3 



Sis 



Cb 



"a 
a 


Tichborne. 

Tichborne. 

Paul. 

Bolley. 

Gottl. 

Ecole des 


Mmes. 
Attfield. 
Breslau. 
Bunsen. 
Ballo. 
Kersten. 
Struve. 
Bouchardat. 
Roscoe. 


Peters. 
Loew. 






■sai^aoqaTJO 


lo CO CO t- 

■^ ■* CM I— 1 ' 
i-H i-H 


c^ CO c<i CO 

' 1 -^ 'M C- ' 00 

1— 1 — 


(M <M 1 rM 


1 


1 CO 
rH 


•sopuoiqo 




t- 1-H CO (M 1 
rH tH CO 'CO 
.H CO iH 


rHCOrHOJOCOrtHlM 
rH 00 I— 1 rH rH rH rH 


00 (M 1 <M 
Tf* (M 1 (M 
00 


1 


1 1 


O 

K 

E- 

< 

M 
.J 
P 


a 

-08 


CO cp p p t- 

Tt< CO 35 C- 
00 00 (N 00 X --H 

T— 1 1— 1 1— 1 


LO <p <Z> r-i 
Ci 1 1 t- 1 cb CO 
(Ml 1 (M 1 (M CO CD 
j—< 7—t rH rH 


p 

CD CO X 1 

CO rH 05 1 




X 1 
CO 1 


J 


OD >p CO p 

»n 00 1 t- CO <b 

' CO 


>rj CO OS p rH 00 

1 do cb -^ 00 CO 

' ' Tt< rH CO 


P p 
r-{ 


1 


^ 1 

CO ' 


08 


o^ c~ (M 05 CO 

"* CO Oi 03 (M 

CO co__c<i TjH 1— 1 T-H 

rH^rn" CO 


^^(TlrHt-CROirH 
00CDt-rH30<^^O 

CO CO CO CO l^J^ C- tN 
T—{ rH 1— 1 i—< cd"rH 


t- CO L- 

1 ^^ 


CD 


t- 

1 IM 


.2 
1 


-<n 05 l-O 

t- lO CO "^ 1 I-H 
■^t-^CO 1 (N 

T-Ti-T rH 


lO'^^lMOrHCDJt- 
(NCOCD(35-<*CO!MOi 
t-^^ OCOrH 05<M CN 
r-T r-Tr-T cf 


-* CD X 
^ CD 

rH !M <M 1 


CO 
J—l 
7-< 


S i 


2 

P. 
03 


4-» 

5 


Strong 

Strong 

Mild 

Medium 

Mild 

Strong 


Strong 

Medium 

Strong 

Strong 

Mild 

Strong 

Strong 

Strong 


Saline, gaseous 

Mild 

Ferruginous 
Temp. 100° to 
140" F. 




3 

p 

t/2 


CO fl 

.'bfl 
pj 3 
fl f-i 


opn^niV 


1,300 
1,000 


920 
460 

1,900 
1,225 


i III 


1 


M 


c 


•5 


Buda-Peat, Hungary 
Buda-Pest, Hungary 
Buda-Pest, Hungary 
Switzerland 
Bohemia 
Rubinat, Spain 


Hungary 
Germany 
Hungary 
Hungary 
Bohemia 
Bohemia 
Pyrenees, Spain 
Budapest, Hungary 


Louisville, Kentucky 

Lincoln Co., Kentucky 
Harrodsburg, Kentucky 
San Juan River, Colorado 




be 

fl 

aa 

fl 
cS 

"S 
(S 
O4 

32 


Carolma 
Butts Co., Georgia 
Colorado 


<9 




3 
3 






(b) American : 
Dupont's Artesian 

Well 

Foley's Orchard 

Spring... 
Saloon Spring ... 
Pogassa Spring ... 


ft 

m 

fl 

Qi 

5 


be 

a 

•S : 
ft • 

CO 

r< S-c 

.2 N 

a ® 


(fl.) European : 
Apenta ... 
.^sculap ... 

Arabella 

Birmensdorf 
Carlsbad ... 
Condal 


Franz -Josef 
Friedrich shall .. 
Hunyadi-Janos .. 
Hunyadi-Laszlo. . 
Marienbad 

Pullna 

Rubinat ... 
Victoria-Oflfener.. 



O 53 .3 



w 



CO •'3 



fe 



•sapuoiqo 






O 03 >p ip 
CO O -^ OD 
CO CO o> 



t- O 

cb lb 

(N 00 



L- O 



lO o 






o 

T^ o 

00 ^ 



6 


CO 00 iH 00 o 




o 




00 




o 


o o 


O M< o 




a 


iH t- 05 G<1 (N 


<X) 


CO 


t- 


o 


CO 


00 


00 t- 


C- 00 CD 


00 


H^l 


OS 


CO 


CO 


iH 


Tl^ 


-* 


05 


(N 


(N r-l 


I-H (M TJH 


iH 


.2 






1 








1 


1 


00 S 


1 ^ O 




."t; 


1 1 1 


1 1 




1 


1 


1 






o ^^ 


' t- >b 


' 


1-5 


















&H 


1—1 




.3 


o t- 


o 






O 






o 


lO o 


o o 


o 




1 O^ 


1 "^ 


t~ 


1 


kO 


Q 


00 


CM 


«N (N 


00 (M 1 


-* 


1 


1 (N 


'^ 


1 


(M 


CO 


CO 




O 


(N 1-1 1 


iH 




















i-{ 






S 




























(N 


o 


o 


O 


(M 


o 


kO 




O Tf< 


o 


•a 


1 i 


1 f^ 


02 


(N 


^ 


05 


lO 


o 


1 1 


cb »b 


(N 


^ 




' O 


o 


o 


CO 


CO 


"sh 




' ' 


CO CO ' 


o 




CO 


>o 


(M 












(N 


T— 1 



ce «u 



CO 



CO 



OJ 



(D 



oT S 

g O cS - 

CO eg oi Q 

^ <1 



O 



P o 



CD 



ci — ' c3 '^ cS 
O O O 



p Ol S P -^ • „H « 

r^-g p.g's;^ CS^ 

CO -J-; " •-! cS ' — I 



•(;38j) 



o 


o 


kO 


»o 


o 


o 1 


(M 


1 '^ 


I— 1 


■-1 


(M 


1 00 




Ph 



•^ T3 "^ 
fl f3 ^ iD 

G a a K~ 2 



Ph 



P^ Ft^ 



fXH 



•^ c3 



c3 


03 Q 




2^^ 


cc" 
03 


^1^ 


6C >5 


„ 2 t« 






O =§ 


jU O c8 


>i^ 


<ipq;zi 



ji -S 03 

q ^ 60 
W Q c3 

c3 -^S^ 03 
.-, _ _3 60 >i S 

"3 cS P ,5 ■" cS — ' 

<i^ pq « !_; t> >► 



o 22 



o 


"g 


a^ 


'> ^"> o • 


CO CO 




u 
P 
o 


cS ^^ 


C5^ 


ues 
rexe 
a CI 
rexe 
avil] 
gi • 


[ina 
faci 




cS 


^ 


_M 


p cdc^-^ 

O O O P 


pol 
ilin 
oni 


CO 

a 


l-l 


m 


m 


PhO O F^ 


<IFqm 


w 



















eS 


































aj CO 


Sh' 




o 


G 










>> 




























to 

3 

a 


<B 

a 
a 


CO CO 


o 




t>5 






"o 




O O J3 

P-i>0 


G 
o 




























o 

q 


3 


oo 






o 


t~ 








o 






























05 






' 




G5 
CD 

T— 1 


O 




30 


C5 


^ I tH 


CO 


O 00 
O CO 




' 




1 




1-1 




1—1 
o 






' 




o 


i 
















O 


»o 
































«N 


1 1 


CO 




1 


CO 




o C^ 


kO O T-( 


o 


1 ^ 




1 




1 














CO 




1 


iH 




CO 




1 


T-l 




o 




1—1 05 


1—1 


' 








' 
























T— 1 










'>\ 




1—1 


































CO 










































t- 




^ 






1 




1 






1 


1 


1 1 1 


CO 


1 1 




1 




1 














GO 




o 


1 










1 










CO 






1 


















1— 1 




o 




o 


o 














CO 


05 
























O 






O 


05 CO 






CO 


o 




o 


1 


CO Tf< 1,1 


'^ 


^ 1 




O 




05 














(N 




1 


t^ 


(N O 


I— 1 




C5 


o 




'>\ 




'f G^l (M 


1—1 


1—1 




CO 




L-- 














'^ 








o 
















00 




o 
































1 




1 


1 




1 


c~ 


•^ 1 1 


(M 


CO T-H 




1 




1 














CO 




00 


1 


U 1 


1 




1 


1 






o 


6 1 ' 


(N 


(M O 






















1—1 




(M 


' 


H 










































1-1 








o 


o 




o 


o 




O 05 


CO O 




km 






















CO 




CO 


1-1 


CO ic 


^ 




(-<l 


CO 




^ 


•^ 


00 O X 


1 


O rH 




05 




CO 














"* 




CO 


i-H 


(N O 






I— 1 


CO 






T— ( 


!M O rH 


1 






1—1 


























tH 


















































00 


o 




Tj< 


t- 




O '^ 


o o o 






























o 


9 


o 


00 




tH 


'^ 




O CO 


1-1 (M (M 


1 


O 00 




00 




fM 




00 




CO 






1 




CO 


00 


o 










rft 


m 


CO c~ 


' 


O CO 




CO 




Tt* 








o 












6 


(M 
















(M 




1-H tH 
















tH 




















CD 

3 












CD 5j_| 




ro 




























CO 






o 










CD 


^ o 


o 


C 










CD 


















<B :3 






CO 










3 


O 


CO 


C 














_, 














^ o 














CD O lO 






^ 














c 












»o 


a> .3 


cc" 


SXI 


<B 




-t; 


® 


2 S^ «^'' 

CO 3 rri 1 — 1 


Sc 1^ 


CO « 


tC OJ 




1 








cl 










CO 


CN 




o 


aj 


oT 


.s 




Oi 


.s 


^% 


3 


3 
O 




' 




3 




o 

g 


<D 




<A 




cf 


£ 




ai 




c8 






CTl 


c3 J-i .rt c3 


















1^ 


^ 








CJ 


o 


c8 u 


CO 


<A 




M 




P< 


-^ 




'*^ ca 


^^^ 




c3 








O) 


T-l 


g 












OU^ 


o 




CC 


< 




<< 


CJ 


02 H 




O 








\^ 




<^ 






■A 




02 


m 


t> 


o 




<-) 


O 




v~- 




O 


o 
































CO 1 


o 




CTS 


o 




o\ 


1 




o 


1 1 




1 




1 




1 




1 






1 




1 


1 


CO 1 


00 




CO 


CO 








Tt^" 


iCi 


1 1 






























a 

to QJ 
C3^ 


^ p" 


S o 

CO fl 






'o 


O 


Silesia 
Switzerland 
Wisconsin, U.S.A. 


< 

m 

P 

'3d 
>- 


o oj 

> > 




a 


endocius, Cali- 
fornia, U.S.A. 
lara Co., Cali- 


<'4 

02*0 

P r 
.. o 

G 

&; <» 


< 

P 

o 




Is 
O 

6 
o 

c3 


-si 
a 

P 

"g 


jg a 

1^ 


<i 

OQ 
P 
c/T 

CO 

a 


;zio 


O 




h 




Wpq 


^ 


^^ 




h-l 




ph 




O 




)-i 






h-l 




02 


<1 


. . 


















c5" 














an 


















* • 








• 




• 







eS 


!jJD--3 








6D 








si 




rrl 






cS 


• 


c3 
08 O 


CO 

02 




CO 

C 




■^ CD 

3 :=; 

P.( CO 

3 


3 • ^ 
C7^ : ^ 

% ^i 

C c3 ^ 
O t^ ,1^ 
Sh c3 <D 


3 
O 

3 




ft 

'g 
<! 




r^ . 

02 

Sh 

N 

OQ 




ft 

CQ 

CD 

CD 
CU 

^0 

s 

o 




ft 
02 

o 




Ph 

cS 
G 

o 


CO 
CO 

O 

o 




,a 

CO 


CO 

bo 

*H 
'^< 
ft 

02 
O 

w 



in 




M 




H 




H 




< 




^ 


s? 


H 


-2 


^ 


« 


I— 1 


Ch 


t-l 




< 


5^ 


m 


Si, 


P5 


CO 


O 


•^ 




« 




6 


»— I 




W 




pq 





> 







I 
























c3 


■i 
















_2 












1 . 








ti 




,bb 


_^ .HP 


'a 

0) 


^ 

^ 


'3 

03 


as' 




'3 




•< 






3 




3 

03 


"S 




CO 

03 


Ti 


03 
03 


'3 




'oo 

CO 


C ':S 














:0 




^ 


c3 


Sh 


O 




e3 


O 3 








3 




3 


1^ 


►3 


P^ 


EH 


[i^ 


w 




;?; > O 


•sajBUoqj'BO 




CO 




CO 


<o 


>0 <M 
C~ 1-1 


CO 


CO 
o 


CO 
CO 


CO 

1—1 


1 


7 














t— 1 






T-l 


iH 




CO 






I-l 






















00 




"lO" 




CO g 
lb c3 
r-l >i 


■opipoi puB 
apiraoaa 




6 


o 
6 


1 




o 1 


1 


1 


6 


i 


T—l 
































&H 


"Biq^ifj 






CN 




CO 


"? "p 






,-, 






CO 




JO s;iBg 




' 


LO 


' 


CO 


1^ CO 


' 


' 


6 


' 


' 


CO 


' ' 






1 




1 


05 


GO 


o 


'—1 1 




i 


o 


CM 


1—1 


CO 


1 '^ 










1 


CO 


L-- 


^ 


(M 1 


1 


1 


T-l 




CO 


<M 


1 CD 


1 b 

! o 


„ 
























































5 




6 










CO 


t- ^^ 


eo 




CD 






iH 


CO 






;3 




] 


1 


1 


CO 


(M iH 


tH 


1 


CO 


1 


j 


c- 


1 '=0 


tf 














1-1 










1 


1 




1 1—1 


o 




J 






























































































rt 




(M 


t- 


1—1 


oo 


t- O 


CO 


o 


IC 


05 


cq 


co 


'^ 00 






-d 




O 


»-H 


05 


(M 


O O 


1—1 


30 


(M 


05 


02 


02 


05 oo 










'>\ 


t- 


L~ 


t- 


TjH O 


1—1 


T—l 


o 


t- 


o 


CO 


(M CO 






X 












(M' 










I— 1 














Ph" 














CO 














Sm 


o 

T-l 


cc 




rj in 








05 














CO 




§1 

o S 


T3 


03 03 






Ti 


■T3 
03 




EC 

p 
o 

03 

o 

-3 


03 








s-T 

3 


03 


03 


60 '-' o 


CO 

O 

03 
CO 


03 
1 


03 

"u 


03 
01 




cS 03 

j3 Pu 








03 


'^ 


o 


3 


o 


H 


<a1 




a a < 








O 


IC 


o 


o 


o o 




o 


CO 


O 


-* 




o 


■(^^^J; 




lO 


(M 


o 


30 


o o 


1 


Oi 


-* 


o 


>.~ 


I 


o 1 


spnniiv 




rt< 


00 


CO 


(M 


CO »o 


1 


CO 


CO 


CD 


o 


1 


CD 1 
























(N 


i-T 




Tin' 








.3 




bO 


.s 
























CO 

3 






'co 

CO 


o3 




G 




03" 


03 




a 


t^ 






t< 


CO 


2 


^ 


C« 




o 




<0 


O 




o 






P4 


CO )-i 

cS O 




CO 

c3 IZi 


^ 


u 


!=i 


«03 




03 


eg 


ij 






'S 


CD 
CO 
CO 
33 


CO 
CO 




c3 CO 
> m 


03 
CO 
03 
03 


1^ 


03 
03 

c3 


P 
H-5 


g 

o 










P5 ffi tI3 


Ph 


W W 


w 


Er 


^ 


p-i 


^ 


CC pq 








: 




: 




'^ : 














03 

p 


d 




1 


r2 








O 

c3 • 








03 


CO 


03 


'o 

p . 
h^l : 


g 




g' 








cS 






's 


w 


o 


^ i=i 








cS 


CD 




^ 


s _ 


& 




c 


o 


'Sc 


M -2 


o 




§ 


rfl 


P) 


6C 


o 


3 




03 


^ 


CO 


&C 


oo 




K3 

5; 


o 


'S 

o 


3 




03 H 

C 03 
0' ^ 
to 3 


03 
c3 


n3 
cS 

03 

_a3 


p 
o 


03 
DO 

13 


a 

c3 

CO 

'cS 


~-^ 6C 

CO a 

2 i 

e3 03 








^ 


fq 


W 


M 


M A 


W 


H 


^ 


K^l 


CO 


CO 


EH h^l 







to 


'ClJ 




Q 


s 


n 


CO 


o 


o 


O O 


o 








S 

^3 






oj 

0) 


'oS 




& 




C3 




5-1 

Pj 


>i 


& 


S-i 

ft 


ft ft 


ft 








i-l 






o 


efi 






p 




<u 


••^ 


Oj 


O 


& 


&, 


ft ft 


ft 








j:3 






S-I 






M 


p 




o 


;^ 


< 


^ 


<1 


<1 


< < 


<1 








O 






H 


ft 


































IC 


o 








(-) 




on 


■^ 




fT) 


no 


iO 


1 


t^ 


CD 


05 O 


o 


1 


irs 


1 


t- 


o 


1 


1 


1 


T-H 




i-i 








Tl< 


t- 




t- 


CO 


o 


o 

CO 








(N 


Tt< 








o 






aj 




<v 


t-l 










C<1 










CO 








i-H 


lO 




' 


c3 




c3 


o 


' 


' 


' 


' 


Ah 1 


' 


' 


' 


1 


^ 


' 


1 


1 


00 


































»o 




c~ 












CD 


























'i* 




(N 


03 




1 




1 


ITl 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


O 


1 


CO 


ca 


1 








u 






































































CJ 








rH 




m 


'i< 




rn 


■^ 


1 


(Ti 


1 


1 


00 1 


00 


o 


1 


^ 


1 


fM 


» 


CO 


CO 


o> 




CO 


<M 




CO 


o 

T-l 




CO 






1— 1 1 


CfJ 

1-1 


00 








03 

'sll 


00 


iH' 


CO^ 

i-T 


r-l 




00 


■^ 




CO 


<-> 




O 


no 




05 


o 


C5 




00 




CO 


c- 


00 








rr 




a^ 


r-l 


1 


m 


•^ 


1 


t- 1 


1—1 


o 


1 


o 


1 


o 




CO 


(M 


1—1 










05 


1—1 


' 


rH 




1 




CD 


i-T 




'M 




^ 

^ 


J-l"^ 


5<r 


'*" 




— 






































(-) 




?ri 






■^ 


r^ 


(M 


^ 


1— 1 


r— 


t- c- 


r^ 


on 


C5 


00 


o 


oi 


CO 


^ 


tr- 


1X1 




CO 


nj 




cn 


o 


O 


lO 


rs 


t-l 


-* CO 


(N 


Oi 


CO 


00 


cu 


O 


o 


ss 


io 


1— T 




t- 


1—1 






05 


«2 


t- 


CO 


CD 




CO 


05 




iO~ 




CD" 


in" 


o" 


tJ 


1^ 


GO 






































eS 




(N 






1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


it! 


'^ 


q 


2 




































<D 










































d 


13 


^ 














































































O 
1— 1 


o 




3 






































m 


W 










































„ 




































1 




1 


o 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 




I 




1 






<x; 
















1 1 




1 














































r^ 
















-^ 








cci 


















1— 1 
















fl 


















>i . 


n^ 


Pm 




r 




>f 












r5 






03 


^ 


tH 


>H 








PM 




o 
Q 




^ 


co" 


oT 


to 

a 


■73 










^" 


o 


^ 


;zi 


>5 


o 
7i 




a 


be 

3 

CO 




"S 

a 
p 
o 


O 




<D 


03 

a . 


03 

a . 






o 


03 




«2 


.2 






Ol 


§ 1 




03 

CO 

c5 


03 


o 
}-i 


03 ^' 


3 .2 


03 ^ 

Si 


W 




;>i 




w 


OQ 


<i 


O 


« 


Q 


v-l O 


H 


OQ 


M 


\^ 


l-^ 


OQ 


m 


CO 


CO 


c3 




o 


bo 




bD 

Is 

02 


0X3 

■£ 

_3 


'55 

< 




o 

3 


ft 

■73 




bo 

a 
ft 

e3 

a 

CO 


Is 

CO 

'be 
P 
c3 

3 

05 


'3 


"co 
c3 
P 


c3 

be 
o 


bC 
.S 

O 


be 
.S 
ft 

CO 

■ft 


'« 

03 
03 


be 

_c 

's-i 

ft 
CO 

c3 

03 

T! 

03 


o 
o 




o 


3 

3 


rO 


c3 


o 

^ 

^ 


C3 

< 


M W W ft O 


a 
o 
O 


r5 

'o 
1— 1 


2 2 

Eh- cq 


"c3 


O 


S 

o 


03 



















>i 


>^ . 






t^>s 


>5 








>, 




2 ie 


ti) 




s 




G 








G 








7i 




^ 


^ 




G 


a> 


<^ ,fl 




"t^ 


0) S 


0; 








< 




^ s 


':« 




?£ 


M 


ffi§ 




»2 


WW 


w 














4^ e 


3 









• Si 























<1^ 







W 


d 


OH 




^ 


do 


d 












i-H 


9 




9 










T' 9 


CO 














1 


C5 




(>i 


1 I 


1 1 




1 


tH 1-H 


Tf< 








•sopjaoiqo 




cc. ! 









1 1 


1 1 




1 


(N 


iM 
















05^ 

































T— 1 




rH 
























CO 


9 






tr- LO 


ip 







9 











■sac(«qdxng 
jaqqO 






00 

CM 




' 


t- CC 


CO T-l 




do 


lb E~ 

cc 


OS 
1-H 




CO 


■uoaj JO 




00 

1 






1 


1 1 


1 1 








1 






9;Bqcling 




1 c- 


1 




1 


1 1 


1 1 




1 


1 1 


1 




<1 










iH 


























3 ? 




'^ 1 


00 









^ 9 




t- 


9 9 


qo 




^ 






" 




tH I 


b 




-H C^ 


tH :o 




T^ 


'f 1 Ph 


T-H 




CQ 


^■ 


























P 




o 


s 




"p 1 


1 




1 


t- 


9 






CO 


t- 




o 




,- 


s 




! 


1 




1 


b 00 


6d lo 




t- 


C- Vi 


05 






ii; 


be 












rH I-H 


yD -* 




(M 


Tj< ,-H 


(M 




:^ 


, — ^ 


s- 


K 
g 


























Hh 




^ 




























o 


o 


o 


y. 




00 






CO 


(N 


oo 







ID 


CQ 




Ph 


S; 


5 


3 




t- 1 


1 




(N 


(N i 


cc 6 




X 


--0 i 


(N 




« 

Cb 


< 


2 










I— 1 


c<i 10 


05 L- 




Tti 


CO' iH 


Tt< 




































s 

©s 




•§ 




1 1 


1 




1 


;o 


-* <M 




t- 


03 i-H 


>-H 











1 1 


1 




1 


(M 


Tt^ CD 




(M 


Tj< 


oo 










OJ 




















ic CO 


CQ 




M 


f-i 


























































O 






















'C 










H 


^ 

^ 


[3 


1 










^ 


ai oT 






£ 


CO 

5 ® oT 


CO 
— 03 


CO 


H 




■5 


2 




g ^ 







P 


.s.s 


r^ ^ 


S3 




^ ,- 

03 .G .G 


s 
tt> .G 



03 


< 




E:. 


(S 
















w 






M . — r 


05 




W 


^ 




Pli CO 


^H 




rS" 


cS 33 


eg ce .2 


Sh 


eg 


eg eg c5 


eg eg 


eg 


H 






J 




Is 




'3 


-« ^ 


^^Ig 


■^^ 


brr^ ^ 


bCr^ 


be 


pq 










<1<1 


OQ 




C» 


^^ 


< w. 




<1 


^^ 


< 




>H 





























































^q 
















tC 


Qi 








03 







<! 










be 


oT 









Ol O-i 




oT 


S OJ 


03 




W 
o 




> 


■> 




S 


m 


t3 
-5 


5- 






03 



s 


Ph S 
03 pin 




G 

eg 

P^ 




>■ 










^ c ^ 


1^ 


land 
Vosges. 
France 


3 


C 03 
eg ns 


C -G 
eg tT 

f^ '^;g 


.2 
5 












1 


• ■ 


e3 








• _o 




eg 

CO 

8i 


03 


CO 
03 

g 








« 




S^ 




:/: 








• d 







"^ ? 


eg 








i: 







a) 


fl 








> 




3 


^-^ 
^ ^ 


TJ 
m 








1 






^^ 







11 




Ul^ 




eg 


be eg 
eg J 

^-^ >i 
CO ^ 


03 












2^ 


■5I 


3 




^ 

^ 
f- 


3 'a> 
cc eg 


(D - — ■ 
Sl'Jg 




"eg 
>> 


,G 















03 ^ 







eg 


3-fl 






















Wpq 


h-^ 




w 


PPO 


PhPh 




Ph 


>> 


> 











CO 










CO !»3 CD 














« 




3 








_• aj 


C^ == = 3 












olley. 
lanta. 
lanta. 


•73 


3 


reseni 
iebig. 
ifebig. 








arth. 

.ersten 

oggial 


U "G 'G 'G 

OJ i-* i-H -H 

iO Oi <B Oi 












pqpHpL, 


<; 




pHh^f-:] 




3 




pqWpH 


l^pMfepH 












9 <? 






c 










^ O 













<N 1 rfi 


1 




IX) do X 




(M 




i '-I 1 


1 ^ 6 o 




1 


2 1 1 1 


1 


1 


CO 1 CT> 


1 




■^ CD rH 




X 




1 i-H 1 


1 CO (N 




1 


■^111 


1 


1 


CM 






00 o 




-* 




r-l 


tH tH 












o o o 






00 








o o o o <ri 05 CO 




9 


9 r-f 9 






O i) ih 


1 




cb 1 




1 




C2 rN tH 


O Oi O i-H 







CO t- CO 


1 


1 


cc 05 as 


1 








1 




05 o 


CC' 




L- 


X CD X CO' 


1 


1 


l-H i-l 














CO 


I— 1 






t-H 






cf 










































c- 






(>5 9 






1 1 1 


1 




1 1 1 




1 




6 1 1 


1 1 1 1 




6 


X ^ 05 1 


1 


1 


1 i 1 


1 




1 1 i 




1 






1 1 1 1 







(M CD 1 


1 


1 
















<N 






1—1 


^ 






O tH >o 


CO 




tH CD CM 




9 




1 X Oi t- O tH tH 




t- 


1 1 ,000 


6 SO »^ 


00 




iH Tt< CN 




Ai 




1 Tj< X o cb >b <N 




cb 


1 1 1 -^ ij 


t- 




























(M X O 


9 




9 9 T' 




^ 




1 O iH C- X o t- 




1 


, 


1 


, 


cq i 6 


t- 




(N O Ah 




CC' 




1 CO o 


T-H l-t CO w 




1 


Mil 


1 


1 


rH l-T 






(M 'M 








o 


O rH 

7—1 












05 00 CO 


t- 




O O 








o 


CO CD Otl 













6 OS -^ 


t- 




oo 6 -* 




I— 1 




1 CD (N 


'^ i) CO 6i 




1 


Ml"* 


1 


1 


00 OQ 






CN tH t- 




t- 




1 CD Tf< O O .-1 G>q 




1 


1 1 1 t- 


! 


I 


1— 1 






tH 










r-l 


















O 








CO 


C-1 o 












1 O -M 


t~ 




^ 1 1 




1 




i <>' 1 


1 1 Ah CO 




1 


i 1 ! -^ 


1 


1 


1 rM C~ 






X 1 1 




1 




1 T-( 1 


1 1 




I 


1 1 1 


1 


1 


C<1 






(M 
















CN 






gative 

aline 

ne, 


u 


o 

to 


line 

le 

le and 


CD 

as 


nganese 
nical 
ient 
line 


ganese 
, gaseous 
ganese 
line, 
seous 




1—1 


11, 72 
hur 
ybeate 
line 


1 


i 


'x '^ 


cS 


C5 ^ -H. 


c3 


>-( 


ci 


Oj sh cS 






s 


3 £-'3 J 






3^^ 


o ^ 


^^^^^ 




^ 




£ %.^ 










^<m 


< 




<rn'Jl 




C/2 




<1 <1<1 g <l s <1 




< <; CO Q <i 


























Oh 


H 3 


H 




n3 f^ "^ 
















§ 




6 




"^ 




CJ 


flee 
















00 




Q 


-^^ !-i 


_^ 




witzerla 
witzerla 
witzerla 






ermany 
ermany 
avaria 




_c3 




yrol 

ohcmia 

orsica 


CO 
[2 t, CO CD 




.2 


•2 sliS 

•^ c^ c; Cj 


'3 




M OJCO 


;:^ 




oop; 




rr^ 




HffiO 


?:o^:z; 







>znyi'j: 


^ 


:zi 








"S^^-^ 
















: : : ~P 












-- >i 




^ — ^ 












'C 




be 








<0 N 




U 












P4 


tJD 


.s 

m 

.2 

'a 









hingen 

iiburg (Elizab 
3ingen (Rakoc: 




C3 

.s 










sson's Spring 
irchill Spring 
ron Spring 
uyler Spring 
laden Vichy S 


cS 

c 



tnensdorf 

Moritz 

asp... 


ico (strong) 

fienbad 

zza... 


mont 

nan Spa ... 
walbach ... 
helmsquelle 


s . ^ 


cS 




Ph K W 




to 










CP 


P c3 H '-i 






Smh 








3 




>5 ^ 




Si 




-G J3 "o '^ "^ -^ 

CC OQ <1 <c|0 



330 POOD AND HYGIENE 

therapeutic effect ; they are powerful 3olvents, useful to remove 
the waste tissues from the body in gouty and rheumatic con- 
ditions, in diseases of the liver, kidneys, and bladder. Being 
highly charged with carbonic acid, their bright and sparkling 
appearance tempts the patient to use them in large quantity 
without effort. They are useful whenever an alkali is indicated ; 
they are agreeable in feverish conditions, and act as a sedative to 
the gastric mucous membrane in indigestion, acidity, waterbrash, 
and all irritable conditions, and when taken cold in sips they 
relieve nausea, check vomiting, and assist in retaining milk. 

Carbonic acid gaseous waters in the United States are derived 
from the Bladon Springs, Chactaw, Alabama ; the Blue Lick, 
Kentucky ; Clarendon, Eutland County, Vermont ; the Sweet 
Chalybeate, Alleghany, Virginia ; Adam's Spring, Lake County, 
California; the Saratoga- Vichy, New York; and the Wilhoit 
Springs, Oregon. Gaseous table waters are also derived from the 
German springs at Belthal, Salmis-Gertrudis, Soden, and Kron- 
thal ; and the French springs at Condillac, Evian, and Eenaisson ; 
and other alkaline waters suitable for table use are those of Bilin 
(Bohemia), Schwalheim (Nassau), Perrier and Morny-Chateauneuf 
(Fra7ice). 

THE ALKALINE WATERS. 

The Vals and Vichy waters may be taken as typical examples 
of this class. They owe their alkalinity to a preponderance of 
sodium carbonate and bicarbonate, and, in a lesser degree, to the 
carbonates of magnesium, lithium, or calcium. Some of the 
waters are highly charged with carbonic acid gas, which makes 
them bright, palatable, sparkling, or even effervescent ; others 
have an abundance of chloride of sodium, or salts of lime or iron, 
which makes them of special value in certain cases, or are dis- 
charged from the earth at various degrees of heat, which renders 
them of further value for baths. 

Vals, Vichy, and other waters in which sodium carbonate is 
high in proportion to the other salts are good representatives of 
the alkaline waters, and are indicated in certain cases of ill-health. 
In the cure of gout, for instance, the alkaline treatment is in 
the forefront ; these wattrs so dilute the liquid in the tissues 
as to prevent the formation of gouty deposit,, and they are 



WATEE 331 

capable of dissolving uric acid. When uric acid is formed in 
excess, as the result of metabolic irregularity, or if it accumulates 
in the system owing to impairment of the functions of the kidneys 
or any other causes, these waters are a proper means of eliminating 
the same. A liberal administration of an alkaline water not only 
dilutes the tissues, therefore, but acts as a solvent and as a 
regulator of metabolism. The accumulation of the alkali in the 
system by the consumption of such waters need not be feared, 
for their ready assimilation and their effect upon the kidneys 
insures the speedy elimination of the salts. In diabetes the 
alkalies are of especial value by retarding the transformation of 
glycogen into sugar by the liver (Liebriech) ; even when the 
disease is of pancreatic origin alkaline treatment is still indicated 
to keep down excessive sugar formation and prevent the harmful 
results of such metabolic waste. The alkaline mineral waters 
have long been regarded as specifics for chronic catarrh of the 
stomach and bowels ; they are of great value by dissolving 
the masses of adherent mucus, accelerating and aiding the 
digestion and assimilation of food by checking fermentation and 
assisting peristalsis ; they are a rational remedy in cases of hyper- 
chlorhydria, and any disease with waterbrash, acidity or hyper- 
acidity of the stomach. In gastric ulcer likewise they neutralize 
excessive acidity and diminish its irritating action upon the 
gastric mucous membrane, and, by inducing contraction of the 
muscles and bloodvessels, diminish the possibility of haemorrhage. 
They are widely used in diseases of the liver, especially chronic 
congestion, and for the prevention or cure of gall-stones, where, 
by increasing the secretion and diluting the bile, many small gall- 
stones are dissolved or washed away. In the treatment of diseases 
of the urinary organs they are valuable by tlie diuretic action of 
the alkalies, which prevent the urine from becoming concentrated, 
depositing uric acid or its compounds, and irritating the mucous 
membrane of the urinary passages. On the other hand, they 
promote a free flow of dilute urine ; they stimulate the muscles 
of the bladder, and prevent stagnation and decomposition of the 
urine. In many cases of albuminuria they effect a reduction in 
the amount of albumin which is lost, and exert a beneficial 
influence upon the injured kidneys. In urinary gravel — a sign of 
retarded metabolism^the alkaline waters have a characteristic 



332 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

effect ; the reaction of the urine becomes less marked, the deposi- 
tion of uric acid ceases, and the urine becomes clear, bland, and 
unirritating. Summed up, we find that all alkaline ivatcrs have 
a diuretic effect, which renders them of value in Bright's disease, 
stone in the kidney, gravel, gout and rheumatic conditions, and all 
indications of the uric acid diathesis. They are useful in diabetes 
by reducing the sugar in the urine ; they increase the secretion 
of bile and make it thin, and are therefore of value in acute or 
chronic congestion of the liver, jaundice, catarrhal inflammation 
of the bile-ducts, and gall-stones ; they are equally useful in 
gastric catarrh, hyperacidity and ulcer of the stomach ; in chronic 
bronchitis and bronchiectasis ; in diseases of other mucous mem- 
branes, as chronic uterine catarrh, leucorrhoea, and other diseases 
of females ; in nervous diseases, debility, and convalescence from 
acute illness. 

When lithia forms an important constituent of such waters, as 
in the Bonifacius, Bilin, Pitkeathly, Saratoga, and Buffalo lithia 
waters, they have similar anti-acid properties to other alkaline 
waters, and are useful in most of the diseases already named ; 
but they are powerfully diuretic, and are marvellous solvents of 
uric acid and its congeners, so that the urine of a person taking 
lithia waters will hold in solution a larger amount of these sub- 
stances than normal urine, which renders such waters of high 
value and justly esteemed as a remedy for gout, rheumatic gout, 
chronic rheumatism, muscular rheumatism, sciatica, uric acid 
gravel, renal calculus, and all indications of the uric acid diathesis. 

When lime or calcium salts are in high proportion, as in the 
Bath, Buxton, Contrexeville, Saratoga, Buffalo, Bethesda, Boni- 
facius, St. Louis, St. Galmier, Wildungen, Tarasp, and Taunus 
Springs, it is likewise claimed that the waters have remarkable 
diuretic and solvent powers over all calculi, gouty, rheumatic, 
uric acid, and other concretions and accumulations, wherever 
they may be ; indeed, they rival the lithia waters in the treat- 
ment of the same diseases. 

The drinking and bathing ' cures ' at the various spas occupy 
from three to four weeks. As a rule, the water is taken in the 
morning on an empty stomach ; again after breakfast, when it is 
followed by walking exercise ; and usually one or two glasses in 
the afternoon. The course of baths is taken concurrently 



WATER 333 

with the drinking ' cure '; they are sometimes taken imme- 
diately after getting up in the morning, but more often in the 
course of the day ; they consist of ordinary baths, at various 
temperatures, of douches, sprays, douche-massage, steam and 
electric baths. 

There are many other good alkaline waters besides those in 
Table III. which are much esteemed and of great value. Such 
are the Alet, Evian, Eenaisson, and Morny-Chateauueuf, in 
France ; the Salvator, in Hungary, which is lithiated ; the 
Marienbad and Franzenbad waters of Bohemia, and of St. Moritz 
in Switzerland, which are ferruginous; those of Belthal, Lipp- 
spring, and Neuenahr, in Germany, which are gaseous ; and 
Pitkeathly, in Scotland, which contains about 5 grains of 
carbonate of lithia in a pint. 

In the United States of America are the following additional 
alkaline waters : In Pennsylvania, the Black Barren and Eock 
Springs, in Lancaster County ; Strummel's Lithia Spring, Adam's 
County ; Cressons' Springs, Cambria County ; Minnequa, Brad- 
ford County ; McVittey's Satilla, in Huntingdon County ; the 
Fayette limestone and chalybeate springs, in Bedford County. 
In Neiv York State the Cherry Hill and Valley Springs, Ostego 
County ; Florida Spring, Montgomery ; and Lebanon Spring at 
Columbia. Vermont has the Missiquoi at Frankland ; Maryland, 
the Clymnera on the Manor estate ; Netv Jersey, the artesian 
wells at Winslow, and Calo Springs at Brown's Mills ; Maine has 
Underwood, Poland, and the North Port mineral wells ; New 
Ham'pshire has the Concord, Birchdale, and Jerusalem Springs; 
Michigan has Warner's Springs at Albion, Leslie's at Ingham, and 
Hubbardstone's Well at lona ; Illinois has the Versailles Spring 
in Brown County, and Perry Springs in Pike County ; Ohio has the 
Yellow Springs in Green County ; Indiana has the Dewdrop and 
Daggy Springs in Greencastle, Hawkins' in Wayne County, Epsom 
in Wyandotte, and the Marian Artesian Well in Grant County ; 
Arkansas has the celebrated hot springs ; Galijornia, the sulphur 
springs of St. Barbara and St. Helens ; Virginia has the Augusta, 
Berkeley, Capon, Healing, Jordan, Massanatten, Orkneys, Rawley, 
Stribbeling's, and other valuable springs ; Carolina has Thom- 
sons', NichoUs', Glen Alpine, Ashley's, Onslow alum and Plum- 
mer's arsenic springs ; Kentucky has Bryant's, Howard's, the 



334 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Grove, and Field Springs in Lincoln County, besides the stone- 
sulphur and the Estill chalybeate and sulphur springs. Indeed, 
alkaline waters form the most numerous mineral waters, and are 
spread over almost every district, being, however, nearer to each 
other in some countries than they are in others. 



THE PURGATIVE AND BITTER WATERS. 

The purgative and bitter waters depend largely for their thera- 
peutic effect upon the sulphates of sodium and magnesium. The 
chloride of sodium is present in most of them, and to a large 
extent in some, and the carbonates of the alkalies and the 
alkaline earths are usually present in inverse ratio to the chlorides. 
They are aperient by reason of the sulphates, metabolism is 
encouraged by the chlorides, and the alkaline salts render them 
of value in many of the same diseases as are treated by the 
alkaline waters. They are of considerable repute as medicinal 
agents in the treatment of acute and chronic diseases of the 
stomach, jaundice, diseases of the liver, spleen, and kidneys ; in 
lithaemia, gout, rheumatic gout, articular and abarticular rheu- 
matism, sciatica, cramp ; in lead and other forms of poisoning ;: 
anaemia, chlorosis, diseases of the blood and skin ; in scrofula,, 
lymphatic and other enlargements ; in chronic uterine catarrh, 
leucorrhoea, congestion or chronic inflammatory diseases of the 
uterine appendages, and other debilitated states of females ; also 
for plethora, obesity, uric acid troubles, gravel, gall-stones, and 
troubles arising from luxurious living. 

The dose of the stronger aperient waters required to produce 
a free evacuation is about a wineglassful, which is best taken 
before breakfast, and followed by a cupful of hot tea, coffee, or 
milk ; these are the Arabella, Apenta, Condal, Hunyadi, Pullna, 
Eubinat, and Victoria-Offener ; the bitterness may be covered by 
the addition of fruit juice, wine, milk, or coffee. About a quarter 
of a pint, half a tumblerful or more, is required of ^sculap, 
Birmensdorf, Franz-Josef, or Friedrichshall water to produce an 
equivalent effect. The aperient action of the Carlsbad and Marien- 
bad waters is by no means the only important one ; indeed, their 
action in that respect is comparatively little, so that a pint or two 
may be consumed in a day without excessive purgation, in con- 



WATER 335 

sequence of which the curative effect of other salts in them is 
more pronounced than in some of the stronger waters, which, on 
the other hand, are chiefly taken as aperients. Many other spa 
waters besides those in the above list have a decided aperient 
action, as those of Leamington, Harrogate, and Pitkeathly in 
Great Britain, Seidlitz and Saidschutz in Bohemia, and Leyrac 
in France. 

The Carlsbad thermal waters may be taken as a good example 
of the waters containing the aperient sulphates in combination 
with sodium chloride and carbonate, which may be called alkaline- 
sulphate waters. Their action is influenced by the temperature 
at which they are taken, the water from the cooler springs being 
more diuretic, that of the hotter more purgative in effect. The 
sulphates act on the peristaltic movements of the bowels, liquefy 
the contents, and stimulate defaecation, excessive purgation being 
regulated by the temperature and admixture of the alkaline salts. 
Metabolism is especially stimulated by the sulphate of soda, which 
causes an increased consumption of fat and thereby reduces 
obesity. Such waters act very beneficially on the kidneys, 
especially those from the cooler springs, which are charged with 
a large percentage of carbonic acid gas ; for this purpose the 
waters of cooler origin are to be preferred. All those waters 
which contain a fair proportion of alkali check hyperacidity of 
the stomach and are useful in acid dyspepsia and chronic gastric 
catarrh. In chronic catarrh of the bowels and habitual constipa- 
tion waters from cool springs are to be preferred to those from 
hot springs ; they give the best results by relieving the disturbed 
venous circulation and stimulating peristalsis, while they do not 
purge too much. Water from the hot springs, on the other hand, 
is to be preferred when the bowels are irritable or hypersensitive, 
as in chronic diarrhoea, membranous colitis, etc. ; they purge more, 
but have a soothing effect (Dr. Mayer). Affections of the liver are 
usually greatly benefited by them, especially chronic congestion 
and such troubles as are incurred by an opulent sedentary life 
and by alcoholism ; in cirrhosis of the liver they are not held to 
have any specific effect upon the morbid process, but they are of 
value by relieving its consequences, such as gastro-enteric catarrh, 
portal congestion, and hcemorrhoids. Very favourable results are 
obtained in the treatment of gall-stones by the thermal waters ; 



336 POOD AND HYGIENE 

they act on the circulation of blood in the liver, improve catarrhal 
and inflammatory changes in the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, 
dilute the bile and increase its secretion ; they improve the tone 
of the muscular tissues of the bile-ducts, and thereby assist in 
the expulsion of the stones. When not too large or impacted, 
gall-stones are often dislodged and discharged into the bowels 
during a course of the waters. Stone in the kidney, uric acid 
and urate stones, yield to the alkaline-sulphate waters; small con- 
cretions are washed away by the increased flow of water, others 
are gradually dissolved, and catarrhal conditions of the pelvis of 
the kidneys and bladder are likewise cured. In like manner, other 
troubles connected with uric acid concretions and deposits, as 
gout and lithasmia, are cured. A considerable reduction of weight 
is effected by the consumption of these waters by the obese and cor- 
pulent, especially when such conditions are due to or accompanied 
by congestion of the liver, fatty liver, and uric acid troubles. The 
alkaline-sulphate waters are beneficial in diabetes, a diminution 
of sugar in the urine and increased tolerance of carbohydrate 
food taking place in many cases during a course of them ; they 
are especially valuable in mild cases which are complicated by 
obesity or a weak and fatty heart. 

Contraindications. — Certain cases should not be sent to 
a watering-place, as patients with cancer of the stomach, liver, 
or bowels ; severe dilatation of the stomach, or marked hypo- 
chlorhydria ; also cases of Bright's disease in which an appreciable 
degree of hypertrophy of the heart or signs of cardiac insufficiency 
have appeared, as to overburden the circulation by an excess 
of fluid of any kind would be injurious. Wherever there is 
marked degeneration of bloodvessels one should also be careful 
to restrict the quantity of mineral water consumed, and to prescribe 
the water from hot springs which are deficient in carbonic acid 
gas, which should be cooled down before being drunk. Nor 
should severe cases of diabetes, accompanied by rapid wasting, 
be sent ; nor cases of advanced tuberculosis, albuminuria with 
marked anaemia, and lardaceous disease of the kidneys. 



WATEE 337 

SALINE AND BRINE WATERS. 

All waters containing a high percentage of chlorides are valuable 
as alteratives, restoratives, and resolvents ; they act by increasing 
and improving metabolism, whereby the general health is improved, 
to the relief of special symptoms. They have a large field for 
employment in the treatment of scrofulous or tuberculous diseases 
of the skin, glands, bones, and joints ; for the wasting diseases of 
children ; for catarrhal diseases which may develop in any tissue 
or organ owing to the scrofulous diathesis, as chronic catarrh and 
discharges from the ears and nose, adenoids, enlarged tonsils, or 
laryngitis. They are valuable for diseases due to obstruction of 
the portal circulation, as chronic congestion of the liver, catarrh 
of the stomach and bowels, htemorrhoids ; for chronic pelvic 
inflammation, chronic inflammation of the uterus and its appen- 
dages, uterine catarrh ; chronic peritonitis ; and old-standing 
pleurisy. They are valuable for gout, gouty rheumatism, whether 
of the joints or elsewhere, and for diseases dependent upon 
defective metabolism, as uric acid, gravel, stone, and obesity ; 
for various forms of blood-poisoning, as from lead, mercury, or 
syphilis; for chronic skin diseases; for various nervous affections, 
as neuralgia, neurasthenia, chorea, paralysis, sciatica ; and some 
of the waters, as those of Nauheim, for disease of the heart. They 
owe their effect very largely, but not altogether, to the chloride of 
sodium, for it is a well-kuown fact that artificial solutions do not 
produce equally good results. The natural waters are combinations 
of chlorides of the alkaline earths ; but some of them contain large 
proportions of iodine and bromine ; lithium, strontium, or iron 
exist in others. When the chlorides are taken into the stomach 
they assist in the digestion of albumin and starch, and favour 
a free and healthy secretion by the mucous lining of the alimen- 
tary canal ; they are quickly absorbed, supply the blood with 
some of its most important constituents, and are carried by it to 
all the secreting organs and tissues. They are serviceable, as 
stated, in certain forms of dyspepsia with defective secretion, in 
sluggishness of the liver and bowels, and they assist in the resolu- 
tion of many chronic inflammatory exudations. The waters which 
are well aerated are preferable for drinking, such as those of Aix- 
la-Chapelie, Bonifacius, Homburg, Johannisbrunnen, Kissingen, 

22 



338 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Nauheim, Eoman Spa, and Taunus in Europe ; and the Albany 
Artesian, the Mount Clemens (Michigan), Ballstone Dentonian, the 
Lansing, and the Saratoga-Hathorn Springs in the United States 
of America. They nearly all have a mild purgative and diuretic 
effect, the former being most marked when the thermal waters 
are taken, and the latter when those from cool springs are drunk. 
Besides their internal use, most of the waters are used for baths, 
inhalations, sprays, and douches. 

Eobin* suras up the conditions in which brine baths are service- 
able : (a) All morbid conditions in which there is diminished 
nitrogenous excretion or a diminution of nitrogenous exchange in 
the system ; (b) lessening of nitrogenous oxidation ; (c) waste of 
those tissues which are rich in nitrogen and phosphorus. The 
baths act differently according to their strength : three-quarter 
strength baths are the most useful when it is not desired to increase 
nitrogenous exchange or oxidation, as in persons who are getting 
thin, or have a tendency to excrete an excess of uric acid; but this 
strength of bath will have little effect on chronic affections of the 
bones: half-strength baths are applicable where there is diminished 
nitrogenous exchange, and are useful in glandular affections, 
strumous disease, and affections of bones and joints. Full- 
strength baths have a powerful effect on organic changes ; they 
favour assimilation, but diminish the nitrogenous output ; they 
are useful for rickets and other affections of the bones, ansemia, 
and certain nervous affections, and for auto-intoxications. They 
diminish the production of urea, but cause the oxidation of 
imperfectly burned and toxic residues which poison the system, 
and are therefore useful for gouty conditions, obesity, etc. It 
has been doubted whether any greater beneficial effect is derived 
from bathing in waters which contain mineral salts than may be 
derived from bathing in ordinary water; but the experience of 
many years is in favour of them, and it has been shown that fine 
crystals of these salts are deposited upon the skin and continue 
to exercise their influence after the bath ; and Gallad f has shown 
that the skin of men and animals can absorb watery solutions of 
these minerals. 

The baths at most of the health resorts are under the super- 

* £uU. de I'Acad. de Med., 1891, xxi, 
t Compt. Rendus, 1900, 130. 



WATEE 339 

vision of a medical attendant, who controls the temperature, 
density, and duration of the baths for each patient. The course 
of baths occupies three or four weeks or longer, according to the 
nature of the case, and is combined with massage or douche- 
massage in gout, rheumatism, contraction of muscles or tendons, 
and stiffness of the joints. Nasal or pharyngeal irrigation is used 
for diseases of those parts, and vaginal irrigation in female 
diseases. Inlialations of the water, or of concentrated water, are 
of great value in all affections of the respiratory organs from the 
nose downwards. The water is inhaled from a jet-atomizer, or 
by the patient sitting or taking exercise in a special apartment 
into which the pulverized water is driven and diffused through 
the atmosphere. 

Special characters are attached to some of the waters whereby 
they attain particular effects — e.g., the Bonifacius water contains 
15 grains of lithia per gallon, to which its efficacy is chiefly due 
in the cure of gout, rheumatism, uric acid troubles, and especially 
gravel and stone ; gall-stones are likewise eliminated by it, and it 
is beneficial in diabetes and albuminuria. La Bourboule water 
contains 1'99 grains per gallon of arseniate of soda, which makes 
it a natural form of arsenical treatment of great value in cachexias 
of all sorts, chlorosis, anaemia, scrofula, skin diseases, albuminuria, 
diabetes, and Bright's disease. The Kissingen water contains 
41 grains per gallon of manganese salts, and is useful in cases of 
atonic dyspepsia, excessive mucous secretion, weakness from 
exhausting diseases and advancing age. The Tarasp water con- 
tains 15 grains per gallon of iodide of soda, which makes it 
valuable to reduce obesity and for other diseases in which iodide 
is indicated. The Woodhall Spa water is rich in bromine and 
iodine, and is of remarkable value in chronic rheumatism, gout, 
and the diseases usually treated by brine waters. Other well- 
known waters belonging to this class are the bromo-iodized waters 
of Halle and Krankenheil in Bavaria, Luhatschowitz in Austria, 
Saxon in Switzerland, and of Alma, Michigan, and Watkin's Glen, 
New York, in the United States ; the sulphuretted waters of 
Pitkeathly in Scotland and St. Gervais in Savoy ; the thermal 
waters of Plombieres, Eoyat, and Balaruc in Europe ; and of 
Deschutes in Oregon, the Liberty and Wagonheel springs of 
Denver, and Siloam springs of Garfield in Colorado, U.S.A. ; and 

22—2 



340 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

not less valuable are the brine waters of Droitwich in Worcester- 
shire, England, which contain 31 per cent, of salt ; the barium 
waters of Llangammarch in Central Wales and Boston Spa in 
Yorkshire, which are of great efficacy in the treatment of strumous 
glandular affections, rheumatism, diseases of the heart, epilepsy, 
and other nervous diseases. 



CHALYBEATE AND FERRUGINOUS WATERS. 

These waters are carbonated or sulphated iron waters ; the 
former contain carbonate of the proto-oxide of iron, the latter 
sulphate of iron. Many of the American waters contain ferric 
or ferrous sulphate, as also do the Levico and Elitwick waters. 

In addition to those in Table V., other European chalybeate 
waters are from springs at Auteuil, Forges, Marcols, Morny- 
Chateauneuf, and Passy, in France ; Eecoaro in Lombardy ; 
Driburg, Griesburg, and Schwalheim, in Germany. Other 
American waters containing 21 to 25 grains of sulphate of iron 
to the gallon are the Alum Springs of Bath County, the 
Alum Springs of Bedford County, and the London Alum 
Water in Campbell County — all in Virginia; and the Kittaning 
Spring, Armstrong, Pennsylvania. Other American waters con- 
taining the oxide of iron are : Thorpe's Spring (40 grains), 
Hood's County, Texas ; Congress Spring (15 grains) in Santa 
Clara County, California ; Orien Spring (5 grains), Jackson 
County, Missouri ; Eiver Spring (4 grains), Este's Park, 
Colorado ; Stryker's Spring (10 grains), Ohio ; Eock Mountain 
Spring (14 grains), Frederick County, Virginia; Oswassee Spring 
(12 grains), Shiawassee, Michigan; Cresson Iron Spring (29 grains), 
Cambria County, Pennsylvania ; and Eichfield Spring (5 grains), 
Ostego County, New York. 

The indications for the use of these waters are the same as for 
iron in other forms — debility, anaemia, chlorosis, and other states 
of the blood in which the cells are defective in quality or quantity; 
diseases of females, such as amenorrhoea, leucorrhcea, catarrhal 
and relaxed conditions of the generative organs. Those waters 
which also contain the sulphates of soda and magnesia, called 
the purgative chalybeate waters, are used for all those diseases 
which are benefited by the bitter purgative waters {q.v.) ; those 



WATEE 341 

which contain alum give excellent results in the treatment of 
chronic gastric and intestinal catarrh, especially when diarrhoea 
is associated with them. The alkaline chalybeates are useful for 
diseases of the stomach and bowels, for diabetes, Bright's disease, 
stone of the kidney, gravel, and for nervous diseases such as 
hysteria, epilepsy, chorea. The saline chalybeates, such as the 
Homburg water, are laxative and tonic, useful in torpidity of the 
liver and bowels, gall-stones, portal congestion and its sequel®, 
haemorrhoids, plethora, and the general result of luxurious living. 
Those which contain a larger proportion of chlorides, as the 
Kreuznach, are valuable for scrofula, lymphatic, strumous, or 
tubercular diseases of glands, bones, and joints, for nervous 
diseases such as paralysis, and for rheumatism and gout. 

SULPHUROUS WATERS. 

Most of these waters are impregnated with sulphuretted 
hydrogen, and some contain sulphuret of sodium or potassium. 
They are useful in many chronic skin diseases, blood poisons, 
gouty and rheumatic affections, lithaemia, uric-acidaemia ; nervous 
diseases, chorea, paralysis ; glandular and scrofulous affections of 
children, and tuberculous diseases of bones and joints ; uterine 
ailments, as chronic catarrh and congestive troubles, amenorrhoea, 
dysmenorrhoea, chlorosis, anaemia ; in respiratory diseases such 
as bronchial catarrh and bronchiectasis. In atonic dyspepsia, 
catarrh of the stomach, and hepatic congestion, a water contain- 
ing not less than 12 cubic inches of H.^S per gallon will stimulate 
secretion, increase peristalsis, and relieve portal congestion ; it 
likewise acts upon the skin, and stimulates perspiration and 
glandular activity. As a bath or douche, these waters are 
exceedingly useful in chronic skin diseases, rheumatism, enlarged 
or stiffened joints, contracted tendons or muscles, and in neuralgia, 
sciatica, and paralysis. 

The most renowned sulphuretted water in England is perhaps 
that of Harrogate, which is justly celebrated; and in Scotland 
those of Pitkeathly and Strathpeffer. Other wells are scattered 
over the country in outlying places, and the water is probably as 
good, if less known. There are numerous sources in France, as 
those of Allevard, Bagneres de Bigorre and de Luchon, Bareges, 



342 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Bonnes, Cauterets, Enghien, Miers, St. Boes, St. Amand, and 
Uriage ; Aix-les-Bains, Challes, and St. Gervais, in Savoy ; Kis- 
singen in Bavaria ; Aix-la-Chapelle and Wielbach in Germany. 

In America there are sulphuretted waters in nearly every State. 
Thus, in New York there are the Sharon Spring in Schoharie ; 
the Aubutn and the Avon in Livingstone ; and Longman's Well in 
Kochester. In Vermont the Missiquoi ; in Michigan are the 
Alpena and the Ypsilanti Springs ; in Indiana, the French Lick 
Spring of Orange County ; in California, the Napa and Paso 
Kobles Hot Springs ; in New Mexico, the Las Vegas ; in Arkansas, 
some of the Hot Springs of Garland County ; in Virginia, the Hot 
Springs of Bath County, the Sulphur Springs in Monroe County, 
and the Buffalo Springs in Mecklenburg County ; in Colorado, 
the Canon and Pogassa Hot Springs ; in Ohio, the Delaware 
Sulphur ; in Oregon, the Deschutes, Wasco County ; in Tennessee, 
the Hagers and Castilian Springs of Sumner County. 

THERMAL WATERS. 

The principal hot springs in the United States are in Virginia, 
Colorado, New Mexico, Michigan, Arkansas, Oregon, California, 
Idaho, Arizona, and Utah ; many of them have been more par- 
ticularly mentioned. Some of the springs issue from the earth 
in the neighbourhood of active volcanoes ; their temperature is 
then very great, from 150° to 195° F. The European thermal 
waters seldom exceed 100° F., as they issue from the earth ; the 
majority have a temperature between 60° and 80° F., as at Bath 
in England ; and the waters of Alet, Bagneres, Balaruc, 
Bareges, La Bourboule, Mont Dore, Plombieres, Eoyat, Salins-les- 
Bains, and Vichy in France ; St. Gervais in Savoy ; Teplitz in 
Bohemia ; Jodbad Lipik in Hungary ; Aix-la-Chapelle, Carlsbad, 
Nauheim, Schlanganbad, Soden, Wiesbaden, and Wildungen, in 
Germany. At all the important watering-places there are baths 
of the most luxurious and elaborate description, where the water 
of the place is used in every conceivable form for therapeutic pur- 
poses. Most of these waters have a value indicated by their 
constituents ; but even the indifferent thermal waters, as that of 
Wildbad in the Black Forest, have great curative powers in cases 
of gout and rheumatism in the joints and elsewhere; in nervous 



WATER 343 

disorders, as neurasthenia, sciatica, paralysis ; spinal disorders, 
chronic diseases of bones and joints, and contraction of tendons 
and muscles. The treatment is aided by change of climate, 
proper dieting, and by drinking the water, also by electro- 
therapeutics, massage, Swedish and other gymnastic movements. 

At some of the health resorts mud baths are used by mixing 
well-seasoned earth, containing more or less of the mineral matters 
which make the water of medicinal value, with warm water to a 
mushy state. A moor bath is the earth from moors used in the 
same way ; bog baths consist of bog earth, produced by the 
decomposition of vegetable matter, mixed with the water from 
iron and sulphur springs ; and a slime bath consists of the mud 
from the bottom of a pond or river, which is smeared over the 
body before washing. Each of these is supposed to accentuate 
the action of the water in certain cases. Mud baths are useful 
for chronic rheumatism, gout, sciatica, neuralgia, various diseases 
of women, and some skin diseases, such as moist eczema and 
psoriasis ; they are contraindicated in valvular disease of the 
heart, chronic Bright's disease, neurasthenia, old age, pregnancy, 
and a tendency to haemoptysis. Carbonic acid baths are indicated 
for nervous diseases, diseases of the generative organs, amenor- 
rhoea, dysmenorrhoea, and impotence ; but they are contra- 
indicated when there is a tendency to bleeding, as in menorrhagia, 
chronic heart disease, disease of the lungs, and irritability of the 
respiratory passages. A course of baths causes a kind of eczema 
in some people, which the hydropathists call a 'critical eruption,' 
and is frequently regarded as a sign that benefit will result ; it is 
not usually serious, and soon subsides. A similar eruption may 
follow the use of cold compresses, douching, or frequent bathing 
of local parts. 

The season at most European resorts is from May until the 

middle of October, although the waters and baths can be had all 

the year. 

References: 'Hygiene and Public Health,' B. A. Whitelegge ; 'Hygiene 
and Public Health,' L. C. Parkes ; ' Lead-poisoning by Water,' Jour. State Jled., 
March, 1903 ; 'Moorland Waters,' W. Ackroyd, Trcuis. Chcm. Soc, 1899, Ixxv., 
196 ; 'Mud Baths,' Brit. Med. Jour., July, 1905 ; Gould's Medical Dictionary ; 
The Reports of many Health Resorts in Europe and America ; The Sixth Report 
of the Rivers Pollution Commissioners. 



344 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

CHAPTEE XIX 
THE AIIl AND CLIMATE 

Am is food, and cannot be done without any more than water or 
bread and meat, and it is as important to have pure air as pure 
water or unadulterated milk, or meat free from disease, or bread 
and flour of proper quality. 

The air or atmosphere is the gaseous envelope which surrounds 
the globe to a height of about forty miles, and exerts a pressure 
at the sea-level of 15 pounds, or 760 milligrammes of mercury upon 
every square inch of surface. Its composition, which has been 
ascertained to be fairly constant up to a height of 14,000 feet, is 
as follows : Oxygen 21 volumes and nitrogen 79 volumes per cent., 
together with 4 volumes of carbonic anhydride in 10,000 and 
a trace of ammonia. 

The air is our source of oxygen ; a man consumes about 
300 cubic centimetres of oxygen per day for every kilo (2-2 pounds) 
of body-weight : this, however, varies according to the work done 
and some other things ; and he absorbs through his lungs about 
750 grammes per diem, and exhales about 900 grammes of 
carbonic anhydride during the same period. By the law of 
diffusion of gases, the air in his lungs surrenders oxygen to the 
blood, and the blood gives up carbonic acid to the air until an 
equilibrium is established, against which equilibrium respiration 
is constantly acting. Some of the oxygen is in solution in the 
blood, but most of it is in chemical union with the hsemoglobin ; 
the tour which oxygen makes is from air in the lungs to the blood, 
from blood to the lymph in the tissue spaces, thence to the cells, 
where it is used in the oxidation of various chemical compounds, 
and much of it ultimately leaves the body as carbonic acid gas. 
The carbonic acid gas passes from the cells to the lymph, thence 
to the blood, and is surrendered by the blood to the air in the 
lungs, diffusion taking place all along the path ; but in the blood 
the carbonic acid gas is partly dissolved in the serum, and is partly 
in loose chemical union with the salts in that liquid, forming acid 
sodium carbonate and acid sodium phosphate. 

The air which leaves the lungs, having been actually breathed 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 



345 



once, shows marked changes ; the oxygen in it is diminished to 
16 volumes per cent., and the carbonic acid increased to 430 per 
10,000 volumes, and a little ammonia and marsh gas added to it; 
moreover, it is slightly increased in bulk, is moist from the addi- 
tion of watery vapour, and may have a slight odour. These 
changes are important in connection with the ventilation of rooms 
and buildings. The diminution of oxygen in the air of a room 
owing to absence of ventilation is not great, nor would such 
diminution be so bad if we could be sure that no deleterious gas 
or substance took the place of the oxygen, for it has been found 
possible to live for some time in an atmosphere containing only 
4 per cent, of oxygen when the air was free from impurities. The 
two following tables show the percentage of oxygen and carbonic 
acid in the atmosphere at various places : 

The Percentage of Oxygen in Am.i 

Analysis of the atmosphere by Humboldt and Gay Lussac (mean 

On mountains and large plains (Gay Lussac) 

On the Baltic Sea (Vogel) ... 

Scotland, on the sea-shore (Angus Smith) 

,, on hill-tops (Angus Smith) 
Manchester (Angus Smith) ... 
London, in open spaces (Angus Smith) 

,, in a workhouse (Angus Smith) 

,, in a sitting-room (Angus Smitli) 

,, in the pit of a theatre (Angus Smith) 

The Amount of Carbonic Acid Gas in 10,000 Volumes 

OF AlE.2 

{From Analyses hy Roscoc, Pettenkofer, FranMcmul and Angus Smith.) 



c (mean 


) 21-00 




. 2149 




. 21-59 




. 20-99 




. 20-98 




. 20-95 




. 20-95 




. 20-88 




. 20-98 




. 20-74 



Scotland, on hill-tops 






.3-32 volumes 


,, on the sea-shore 






3-41 ,, 


Mont Blanc (top) 






6-10 ,, 


Chamonix (top) 






6-30 ,, 


On Lake Geneva 






4-39 ,, 


At Madrid ... 






5-00 ,, 


At Munich ... 






. . 5-00 ,, 


At Manchester 






4-00 ,, 


, , in a fog . . . 






6-70 ,, 


,, in a theatre 






33-00 ,, 


,, in a workshop 






30-00 ,, 


In mines 






78-85 ,, 


In a London V)arracks 






12-42 ,, 


In a Chatham barracks ... 






19-50 ,, 


In a Chatham hospital 






18-00 ,, 


In a boys' school ... 






23-70 ,, 


In a boys' school at Munich (Pettenkofer) 


70-00 ,, 


In a crowded meeting 






35-50 ,, 



346 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Air seldom loses more than 1 per cent, of oxygen under ordinary 
circumstances, though the carbonic acid may rise to 70 in 
10,000 volumes, and both are prejudicial to health. Air is, there- 
fore, rendered impure less by the removal of oxygen than by the 
addition of carbonic acid gas or other gases and animal products. 
The presence of foul air in a room may be determined by the 
sense of smell, and by consideration of the means of ventilation 
and cubical capacity of the room for the number of occupants. 
Roughly speaking, a space of 1,000 cubic feet for each individual 
is necessary to maintain the purity of the air in a room, with the 
ordinary ventilation by means of a door and chimney and the 
chinks around the windows. The necessity for ventilation is 
apparent, and is required as much for the removal of carbonic 
acid and other foul gases as for the renewal of oxygen ; for 
wherever people are crowded together or the space is confined, the 
oxygen becomes exhausted and carbonic acid takes its place, and 
the lungs and skin give off waste organic materials which give to 
the air a peculiarly unpleasant and penetrating odour. 

The carbonic acid gas in ordinary air is about 4 parts in 
10,000, but in a room full of people it reaches 20 or 30, and 
as much as 70 parts in 10,000 have been observed. Now, an 
atmosphere containing 19 parts of carbonic acid gas in 10,000 
(without excess of organic impurity) feels fresh and agreeable and 
cannot readily be distinguished by smell from pure air, and as 
much as 40 parts in 10,000 is not very evident to the senses, 
though in both cases it has a bad effect upon vitality ; indeed, the 
sensible discomfort of bad air is largely due to the organic matter 
in it. When the amount of carbonic acid gas in the air rises to 
30 or 40 in 10,000, it excites more rapid and difficult breathing ; 
and should it reach 20 per cent. (500 in 10,000), as.it ultimately 
must do by breathing in a confined space with no ventilation, the 
carbonic acid acts as a narcotic poison and causes death. In such 
an instance, as the confinement of prisoners in the Black Hole at 
Calcutta, asphyxia would be induced by the diminution of oxygen 
and accumulation of carbonic acid gas, and death would result 
from the action of the carbonic acid rather than the loss of 
oxygen, because the persons would be poisoned before all the 
oxygen could be used up. 

The chemical compounds found in the impure air of a close 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 347 

room are animal products, which can be estimated by the amount 
of organic nitrogen, increased carbonic acid, and diminished oxygen. 
The nitrogenous products can be shown to be present by shaking 
up a solution of permanganate of potassium in a bottle containing 
the air, when the colour will be removed. Ammonia is almost 
universally present in the air, but particularly in that of a crowded 
room or in the neighbourhood of decomposing animal or vegetable 
matter ; it is recognised by two tests : free ammonia by Nessler's 
test, and organic or albuminoid ammonia by Wanklyn's method, 
used as in testing an impure water. The determination of the 
diminution of oxygen is not so readily performed, but it can be 
inferred from the amount of carbonic acid in it, the presence of 
the latter proving a diminution of oxygen. Carbonic acid can at 
once be shown to be present by agitating the air in a bottle with 
lime-water or baryta-water when the solution becomes cloudy, 
and the quantity of carbonic acid is ascertained by collecting and 
weighing the deposit. 

Sewer gas acts very injuriously when it contaminates air or 
water. It is generally perceptible to the smell, and its presence 
in a house arises usually from defects in the water-closet or 
waste-water pipe or kitchen sink ; it may also arise from a broken 
drain, especially a drain going under a tioor or any portion of the 
building. The gases vary, but they usually consist of sulphuretted 
hydrogen, carburetted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonia, nitrogen, 
oxygen, carbonic oxide and anhydride, ammonia, and certain 
foetid gases allied to the compound ammonias. It is quite possible 
for the inodorous carbonic oxide, which is very poisonous, to 
pervade inhabited places in a proportion far beyond foul gas and 
escape detection, yet be more dangerous because its presence is 
imperceptible. 

VENTILATION. 

The public have now a more intelligent appreciation of pure air 
and its necessity for the maintenance of health than formerly. 
Health is only possible when to other conditions is added a supply 
of pure air, and statistics have proved beyond a doubt that 
impure air is one of the most potent factors in the causation of 
phthisis and many conditions of ill-health. The air in a room 
occupied by people lacks freshness after a time, and a feeling of 



348 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

lassitude and heaviness affects the occupants when the ventilation 
is defective, and such air has been proved to contain a poisonous 
principle which is far more deleterious than carbonic acid gas. 

In determining a proper mode of ventilation several points 
require consideration. The density of the air which leaves the 
lungs in expiration is the same as that of air which has been 
warmed to 78° or 81° F. ; it is therefore lighter, and naturally 
rises when the temperature of the surrounding air is below that 
range, and falls when it is above it. As the air in the lungs 
acquires so much heat as to be specifically lighter than the 
surrounding air, it rises above our heads when it leaves the body, 
and each individual increases that effect ; natural ventilation, 
therefore, takes place from below upward. The exit for spent air 
ought, for this reason, to be near to the ceiling — at any rate, some 
distance above the heads of the occupants ; exits near the floor, 
as in low ventilation, ought to be avoided on various grounds. 
The supply of air from inlets high up is wrong in principle ; 
pure air can never be supplied in this way, for the air is so warm 
when it leaves the lungs that it must perforce rise ; but if the 
supply of new air to the room comes in from above it can only 
reach the occupant by cooling and bringing down with it the foul 
air which Nature was endeavouring to remove ; consequently, there 
is nothing to breathe but a mixture of polluted air.^ Again, 
carbonic acid gas is heavier than air, and on a priori grounds that 
which leaves the lungs ought to fall to the ground, but practically 
such a thing does not happen ; the carbonic acid gas which leaves 
the lungs and skin is thoroughly diffused through the warm air 
rising from the body, just the same as when that gas is made 
by a candle or gas flame. Professor Woodbridge says that a gas 
which is once diffused through the air can no more sink or settle 
down out of it and occupy a lower stratum than salt can settle 
out of the sea to its bottom ; carbonic acid gas in expired air 
must therefore rise with the current of w^arm air and leave the 
room with it. 

As each person in a room is a source of warmth to the air 
around him, it rises above his head, and its place is supplied by 
cooler air ; he thus assists ventilation. If, therefore, a supply of 
fresh air from below could have access to each person in an 
assembly, and the warm columns of air arising from their lungs 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 349 

and skin were drawn off through the roof or near the ceiling to 
where they naturally ascend, and not permitted to return to 
be breathed over again, an ideal system of ventilation would be 
estabhshed ;^ such is Boyle's system of ventilation. The currents 
of impure air arise to the ceiling and escape, leaving the floor 
occupant in the cooler and purer supplies at the floor untainted 
by the vitiated air which arises from it. In large rooms, churches, 
theatres, the ideally perfect ventilation consists in encouraging 
such a regular up-current from a level below that of the human 
heads to extraction outlets in the ceiling.'' The ventilation of 
small rooms, dwelling-houses, and others, may be readily per- 
formed by the Louvre and Cooper's window ventilators, by 
Tobin's tube, Sherringham's valve, Ellison's conical bricks, or by 
Arnot's or Boyle's valves consisting of talc plates. 

The heating of rooms by a supply of hot air is deleterious to 
the health of the occupants ; this is one of the great evils of the 
mechanical system of ventilation. ^Yhen the building has to be 
warmed with the air-supply, the air gets burnt, it loses a portion 
of its oxygen, gets hotter than is either comfortable or healthy 
for breathing, and causes a feeling of oppression and lassitude, 
owing to the insufficiency and attenuation of the oxygen in such 
overheated and rarefied air, which is enervating and lacks fresh- 
ness. All authorities agree that the heating and ventilation of a 
room should be dealt with separately. An American engineer 
attributes the premature loss of the freshness and bloom of youth 
by many Americans to the enervating effects of the hot-air 
systems of heating and ventilating which have been in vogue in 
the United States ; these are now being discarded in favour of 
hot-water pipes and methods of warming by radiant heat, which 
are very much healthier. 

THE CLIMATIC TREATMENT OF DISEASE. 

The seasonal changes of the atmosphere and other aerial 
influences are factors affecting alike the sick and well. Nothing, 
for instance, is more certain than that a cool summer and a mild 
winter are attended by a proportional diminution in the death- 
rate, and that a severe winter or a very hot summer equally show 
an increase of mortality. A continuance of northerly wind will 



350 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

brace and invigorate a healthy person, make him agile, fresh- 
coloured, quick and nimble ; but it increases pulmonary diseases, 
bronchitis, coughs, colds, catarrhs, rheumatism, and is especially 
fatal to the delicate and aged. A continuance of southerly winds 
relaxes the body, causes languor, heaviness, laziness, even 
dizziness, dulness of the senses of sight and hearing ; and vphen 
combined with continual rain or very frequent showers it favours 
most diseases. 

The importance of change of air during convalescence from 
disease is very great ; its power of recuperation is undoubted, 
and has been advocated from time immemorial, while the search 
for a climate where the temperature and constitution of the 
atmosphere is better suited to an invalid than that of his ordinary 
place of residence has been the subject of many discussions. The 
great desideratum is to find a climate and sheltered residence for 
delicate persons during the winter and spring. But merely a 
place of rest and shelter from cold winds is not sufficient for all 
who seek change of air to restore them to health. ' There are 
some to whom new life comes with active exercise on the moors, 
or among the peaks and passes of mountains ; and others who 
need rest, for whom a sea-voyage or lying on a beach throwing 
pebbles into the sea is a desideratum. Those who need the first 
and choose the second return from their holiday more oppressed 
than ever ; those who need rest, and take violent exercise, return 
with a strained heart or over-distended lung. Change of work is 
good for some, cessation for others ' (Dr. Symes Thompson). 

The special feature in seaside treatment lies in the sea air. It 
is impossible to say what is the most important property — its 
purity, richness in oxygen or ozone, its transparency, or its high 
barometric pressure. The general effects, however, are increased 
blood formation, increased activity of metabolism, and increase of 
bodily energy ; and the respiratory movements are slower and 
deeper in proportion to the greater barometrical pressure. Some- 
times, however, a change to the seaside does harm, and one 
should consider the comparative advantages of the ordinary 
residence and the place to which the patient is being sent. In 
this connection we should take into account the difference of the 
mean annual temperature of the two places, as well as the 
barometric pressure^ Qhjef direction of wind, the humidity of the 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 351 

air, and rainfall. Foggy and rainy days are less common at most 
seaside resorts than inland ; but sea air is generally more humid. 
The temperature of the air at the sea is lower than that inland at 
the end of winter (March and April) and in spring and summer, 
but it is higher in the autumn and most of the winter. The 
sensation of coldness is usually due to the direction of the wind, 
and is not a correct indication of temperature ; the thermometer 
ought, therefore, to be closely watched. Violent wind is dele- 
terious to many invalids, but a day or two of storm at the 
seaside is usually followed by many calm days ; in March, April, 
and May, the storms are longer and more frequent. Strong wind 
increases the respiration and pulse, and is thereby injurious 
to sufferers from heart disease, Bright's disease, or consumption, 
and particularly injurious to tubercular patients, persons with 
nervous diseases, hysteria, neurasthenia, chorea and epilepsy, 
and convalescents from scarlet fever, diphtheria, or measles. 
Such persons are advised to remain inland during the early 
spring, or to go only to warm, moist places. Early cases and other 
cases of phthisis which are free from fever usually do well at the 
sea, although stormy weather and sudden changes of temperature 
are bad for them ; the season and place ought therefore to be 
picked for them. Hay-fever is often cured by sea-air. The 
winter (excepting, perhaps, November and December) may be 
passed at the sea by sufferers from chronic bronchitis, asthma, 
laryngeal and nasal troubles, gout, rheumatism, rheumatic gout ; 
tubercular diseases of bones, joints, or glands, disease of the 
spine, and chronic abscesses. Delicate children usually do well at 
seaside resorts ; but such as require careful medical supervision, 
especially those with tubercular diseases of the lungs or abdomen 
and kidney troubles, should only be sent there during certain 
seasons and to suitable places. 

The beneficial effects of a sea voyage of some duration are 
known to all, especially for patients with chest troubles and 
those who need recuperation without fatigue. Those whose daily 
work or disposition leave but little time for repose are frequently 
made worse by Continental travelling, with its long railway 
journeys and frequent change of hotel, or, again, by shooting or 
mountaineering ; but a trip to Australia or to the Cape and back 
— the latter occupying about seven weeks for the return journey 



352 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

— affords ample means of rest, change of air, and company. 
'The sea, after a possible tumble in the Bay of Biscay, is one of 
almost lake-like smoothness, the temperature equal, and altogether 
the patient is sailing through summer seas. I have no hesitation 
in recommending the voyage to those who require real rest of 
body and true recreation of the faculties ' (Lennox Browne). 
The sea trip will be enough for many people, but most invalids 
require a stay on land of some duration before making the return 
voyage ; and in South Africa, Australia, or the West Indies are 
many variations of climate suited to the needs of different 
individuals. Dr. Eobson Eoose, in speaking of a sea voyage, 
says : ' It is good for overworked business and professional men 
suffering from sleeplessness, neuralgia, and similar complaints, 
and its effect is truly marvellous, as it gives the greatest amount of 
nerve restoration in the smallest space of time. Persons of delicate 
chest or gouty habit derive much benefit from it.' It is possible 
for overtired persons, who are only able to take a holiday of 
three weeks' duration, to obtain marked amelioration of their 
symptoms by a voyage and a few days' rest in the Canaries, or 
in the charming island of Madeira, which is highly spoken of as 
a place for nerve rest. A sea voyage with a short sojourn in a 
summer climate may accomplish more completely what is often 
sought in a stay at European health resorts. Nothing can be 
better for those who have run down from overwork, insomnia, or 
faulty adaptation of the human machine to its environment, for 
those who are unequal to active exertion or the bustle of a crowded 
lodging in the country or at the seaside. Change of scenery and 
surroundings can be found at sea as elsewhere. The melancholy 
patient is sure to find on board a mixed party of fellow-travellers 
with bright animal spirits and exuberant vitality. The fact that 
he cannot shut himself from society keeps him from emiui ; he 
will soon be drawn out of himself, and the change effected in 
a few weeks will be marvellous. 



HEALTH RESOETS IN GREAT BRITAIN. 

The warmest winter residences in England are generally found 
in the south ; here the blessings of warmth, sunshine, and a mild 
climate in the winter months may be found without crossiug 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 353 

either the Channel or the Continent, or increasing the toil and 
expense of a sojourn in the Eiviera or more distant climes. We 
have places in our land which, if they do not rival the foreign 
ones in extent, are considered to do so by their mildness and 
salubrity. Our southern coast has a superior climate, well 
adapted for invalids in December, January, and February; l)ut in 
March the temperature begins to approximate more nearly to 
that of the interior, and in April and May the temperature of the 
interior gradually gets higher than that of the coast, and continues 
to rise, though in a less ratio, throughout the summer ; in 
October they are about equal, but in November the temperature 
of the coast again begins to exceed that of the interior. 

The coast of Cornwall has a peculiar climate, which depends on 
its almost peninsular situation. There is a remarkable equability 
of the temperature throughout the year, both day and night, 
which in some respects is said to make it superior to Southern 
Europe, the only place that excels it being Madeira. Falmouth 
and Penzance are about the l)est-known places, but there are 
many quiet spots about the Lizard, Land's End, and the adjacent 
Scilly Isles, which are equally delightful. Mullion, for instance, 
about five miles from the Lizard, in Mount's Bay, provides a 
shelter from the east winds of an English spring ; it has an 
exceptionally mild climate, softened by the Gulf Stream, and 
a maximum of sunshine, and provides abundance of material for 
the botanist, geologist, and ornithologist, as well as fishing, 
golfing, boating, cycling, and driving. Coming to particulars, 
Penzance is about Gh° warmer than London in the night and only 
3° warmer in the daj?^ ; it is mild and equable, but somewhat 
damper and more rainy than Falmouth. The softness and 
humidity of the atmosphere in Cornwall, joined with the mild and 
equable temperature, render it beneficial for all pulmonary diseases 
and for people with morbid states of the mucous membranes, 
but it is less suitable for those with relaxed or nervous constitu- 
tions. Unfortunately, gales are frequent on the coast, and the 
rainfall is nearly double that of London ; and Penzance, owing to 
its want of shelter from northerly and easterly winds, is colder 
than Torquay during spring. The late Mr. Whiteley, in writing 
of South-West Cornwall, said : ' A Canadian would think there 
was no summer and say there was no winter. The month of 

op. 



354 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Januarj' at Penzance is as warm as at Madrid, Florence, and 
Constantinople, and July there is as cool as St. Petersburg in the 
same month. . . . There is no country in the world with a 
climate so mild and equable as that of the South-West of England, 
if we exclude the South-West of Ireland, where this peculiarity is 
intensified. The cause is well understood. The Atlantic Ocean 
on the west is an immense reservoir of warm water, fed and 
heated by the Gulf Stream, so that around the Cornish land in 
the depth of winter the temperature is seldom below 46° F., and 
out at sea the water is much warmer. The almost insular 
position of Cornwall, its narrow area, and the warm sea, give it 
generally a climate of singular equability. 

The following table, showing a comparison of the mean 
temperature and its greatest daily range at the places named, is 
taken, with acknowledgment, from ' Cornwall as a Health Kesort,' 
by E. Kitto, F.E.Met.Soc. : 



The Mean Temperature. 



Place. 


Latitude. 


Degrees Fahrenheit. 


















Nov. 


Dec, 


Jan. 


Feb. March. 


April. 


Daily 
Range. 


Falmouth 


59° 9' 


47-5 


44-4 


43-2 


43-5 43-9 


47-4 


4-3 


Penzance 


50° 7' 


46-8 


43-5 


42-2 


42-8 43-6 


48-4 


6-2 


Scilly Isles ... 


49° 55' 


49-9 


47-1 


46-0 


46-0 45-8 


48-7 


4-1 


Mentoue 


43° 45' 


54-0 


49-1 


48-7 


49-1 52-8 


58-3 


9-6 


Nice 


43° 41' 


52-0 


46-9 


45-4 


46-5 ' 50-9 


57-1 


11-7 


Montpellier ... 


43° 36' 


50-0 


44-0 


43-3 


47-0 50-2 


55-6 


12-3 


Cannes 


43° 32' 


52-9 


46-1 


48-0 


48-8 510 


55-5 


9-2 


Pan 


43° 19' 


47-0 


42-8 


41-2 


43-6 48-8 


51-8 


10-6 


Madeira 


32° 40' 


65-8 


63-2 


60-4 


61-4 62-3 


64-0 


5-4 



A glance at the above table shows that the winter climate of 
Cornwall rivals that of the chief foreign health resorts in mild- 
ness and equability of temperature, and justifies the name of 
Cornish Kiviera, in comparison with its foreign rivals on the 
shores of the Mediterranean and amid the waves of the Atlantic. 
Madeira and Teneriffe alone are more favoured than Cornwall in 
the daily range of temperature ; and, as regards cold, there are 
winters in which a frost is unknown, and ice enough to skate 
upon is a tradition rather than an experience. Falmouth is 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 355 

especially favoured with sunshine, and, with the exception of 
Jersey, it stands at the head of the list of forty- six meteorological 
stations in the British Isles for the ten years 1881 to 1900. 
Most of the winter resorts of Cornwall lie on the coast, where 
there are not only Falmouth and Penzance, but many sheltered 
villages ; and not the least important matter is that they can all 
be reached with little cost and fatigue, and consequently at a 
minimum risk to the invalid. 

The Scilly Isles, being in the Atlantic, hut quite near the 
mainland, are beautifully warm and mild in the winter, have 
a very equable temperature, as seen from the above chart, are 
a few degrees warmer than the places on the Cornish coast, 
and in December, January, and February are about as warm as 
Nice and Cannes. The climate is very suitable for persons with 
consumption, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, Bright's 
disease, and other conditions which need a mild and equable 
climate, free from cold and dry winds. A patient, writing from 
St. Mary's Isle in early March, said : ' We live as if on the deck 
of a ship, with the Atlantic all around us. Such colour, such 
air, such sunshine ! The sea is as blue as the Mediterranean, 
and we live out of doors, sitting on the rocks or sailing about 
amongst the other islands from morning to night. It is an ideal 
winter climate.' The luxuriant tropical flowers, which grow 
freely out of doors, attest its warmth and humidity; the usual 
garden flowers of England are grown on farms by the acre for 
the market. ' If people knew more about Scilly they would 
certainly come here instead of going to Southern France or 
Italy.' ' The sailing and yachting about Scilly are simply 
glorious and most exhilarating, and splendid for the nerves ! 
It makes one feel as lively as a seagull, and as hungry as a shag 
or cormorant.' The journey is quite easy for an invalid. 

The south coast of Devon has likewise been noted for its mild- 
ness, the temperature of its more sheltered spots being about 5° 
or 6° higher than that of London in the winter months. The places 
most in repute are Torquay, Dawlish, Sidmouth, Exmouth, and 
Salcombe. 

Torqumj has a natural situation which is very advantageous to 
it as a health resort. It occupies an almost peninsular position, 
and is protected on the north and east by a range of hills which 

23—2 



356 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

shelter and give mildness to the place. Its peninsular position 
and proximity to the sea, which render its cHmate mild and 
equable in winter, make it equally cool in summer. The equa- 
bility of temperature is very marked, and the daily range is not 
great. The mean maximum temperature for ten years = 56'4°, 
the mean minimum = 43-9°, the daily range 11-G°. It compares 
favourably with some of the Cornish and Continental resorts. 
Compared with that of all England, the mean annual tempera- 
ture is 2° higher, but the maximum is 7° lower, and the minimum 
12° higher. All tables show a large excess of sunshine in winter 
at Torquay as compared with Greenwich. During four months 
the total hours of sunshine were 226 at Torquay, 219 at Bourne- 
mouth, 219 at Yentnor, 200 at Eastbourne, and 137 at Kew. 
The prevailing winds are south-west, and almost all gales blow 
from that quarter ; the high hills shelter it from northerly and 
easterly winds, and invalids are enabled to spend much more 
time out of doors than in many other places. The average rain- 
fall for nine years was 35-39 inches ; days on which snow fell, 18; 
and foggy days, 39. Many times when snow falls it does not 
cover the ground, and ice strong enough for skating is unknown. 
The Torquay district consists entirely of limestone and slate, 
giving the place an interest to the geologist. Tropical and sub- 
tropical vegetation grows readily out of doors, and is a proof of 
the mildness and equability of the climate ; the plants of the 
English gardens bloom freely in November. During November 
and December people can frequently sit out of doors in a brilliant 
sunshine, surrounded by the odour of flowers and the warbling 
of birds. 

The climate of the coast of Devon and Cornwall is exceedingly 
suitable for a winter resort for invalids, especially for those 
suffering from phthisis, bronchitis, and asthma, and it is very 
efficacious in soothing all irritable states of the respiratory and 
other mucous surfaces accompanied by more or less secretion 
and susceptible of irritation from dry winds. For the aged, who 
have no power to resist cold, and whose diminished vitality 
renders them susceptible to every change of wind and tempera- 
ture ; for people with dyspepsia, kidney or uterine diseases, and 
various nervous troubles arising from them, this climate may be 
recommended as beneficial. Children of enfeebled constitution 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 357 

and those born in tropical countries may advantageously live at 
these places, for here the difficulty of rearing them is much 
lessened. 

'All cases of illness and invalidism are not benefited by this 
climate, and especially such persons as suffer from passive 
congestions or very copious secretions; also atony of the stomach; 
diseases of the uterine system with excessive discharges ; and, 
generally speaking, it is not to be expected that patients with a 
relaxed state of the system will greatly benefit by a sojourn in 
Devon or Cornwall, especially if the residence is prolonged. Such 
persons are more likely to be benefited by Brighton, Bourne- 
mouth, Clifton, or other place with a drier and more bracing air. 
The climate of Bournemouth is very suitable for a winter 
residence, and in the summer it is, for the south, a delightful, 
cool, and bracing seaside resort. The climate is influenced by the 
geological formation on which the town stands, by its geographical 
position, and by the pine-woods which surround the district. 
The subsoil of Bournemouth is sand and gravel of the most 
porous character, over clay which lies 100 to 120 feet below the 
surface ; the natural drainage is therefore admirable, and the 
surface of the soil is soon dry after the heaviest rainfall. The 
geographical position is said to influence the amount of cloud. 
Bournemouth has the sea to the south, two rivers to the east, 
and the Purbeck Hills to the west and north, which draw away the 
clouds, so that there may be a good deal of cloud around the place 
while there is little above it. Less cloud, of course, means more 
sun, and it claims to excel many other places in absolute amount 
of sunshine. Bournemouth escapes the fogs which hang over the 
swift tidal currents, because it is out of the sweep of the Channel, 
and when they come from the south-west they are detained by 
the Purbeck Hills. The pine-woods affect the climate by giving 
shelter without drawing damp, and they medicate the air by 
their balsamic exhalations. During sj)ring, when the fresh shoots 
are formed, and under the influence of the sun's rays, a very 
large amount of terebinthinate vapour is given off. 

Invalids seeking health, or overworked persons seeking rest 
and change, may find plenty of amusement and recreation in the 
town or by sea and land. For the geologist, the Portland and 
Purbeck beds on the coast and the famous Barton beds 



358 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

on the east ; for the botanist, heath and moorland and the fertile 
valleys of the Stour and Avon or the New Forest, afford rich 
fields of investigation ; and for the antiquary there are a variety 
of objects within easy reach. 

As a winter resort for phthisical patients, and all those invalids 
whose vitality gets lowered by confinement to the house, Bourne- 
mouth offers many advantages. Thoy cannot quite escape an 
English winter there, but it is asserted that they will get the 
driest climate there which England has to offer, and they will 
thus be able to get a large amount of out-of-door exercise. The 
climate is dry, with a fair amount of sunshine, and the place is 
sheltered from all quarters but the south. It is not a relaxing 
climate because of its dryness, and it is suitable for some cases 
which do not get on in the moister atmosphere of Devon or Cornwall. 

The cases which do not improve there are bronchial cases with 
a dry, irritable cough or viscid, scanty secretion, which require a 
moister and more soothing climate ; many throat cases with an 
irritable mucous membrane also do better in a moister atmo- 
sphere than here ; and some forms of neuralgia are aggravated 
either by the dryness of the atmosphere or the proximity to the sea. 

In the Isle of Wight, Ventnor, Undercliff', and other places are 
suitable for pulmonary and other invalids. Ventnor has the 
highest winter temperature of anyplace in Great Britain. Under 
cliff' is sheltered and warm, and has the advantage of being 
suitable for a summer residence. 

Hastings and St. Leonards, being situate at the base of a range 
of hills, is protected in a considerable degree from north and 
north-east winds ; it is a milder and more sheltered place during 
the winter and spring than any other part of the coast of Sussex. 

Weymouth, a lovely seaside resort on the Dorset coast, is a 
well-favoured spot, with a warm, equable climate in winter, and 
a cool, dry, bracing air in the summer ; rainfall small, sunshine 
brilliant ; there are valuable medicinal waters of the chalybeate 
and sulphuretted class. 

Brighton differs from Hastings and Undercliff in being 
exposed to northerly winds, which materially alter the climate. 
But if it is not suitable for persons with diseases of the chest, 
it is a drier and more bracing atmosphere than that of the 
places just named, or of the Devon and Cornish coast, and it 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 359 

offers advantages to persons of a relaxed and nervous habit who 
are not very excitable. Autumn to the end of December is the 
best season, after which Bournemouth, Hastings, Undercliff, 
Torquay, or one of the Cornish places would be better. 

The Channel Islands. — Guernsey and Jersey have a climate 
resembling that of the coast of Devon or Cornwall, being some- 
what warmer, but more exposed to high winds. South-westerly 
winds prevail in the autumn and winter, north-easterly winds in 
the spring, and when the latter prevails for weeks together it has 
the same unpleasant effect on invalids as elsewhere. Jersey is 
the place best suited for invalids, and for the same diseases as 
Devon or Cornwall. 

The coast of Kent presents some well-favoured spots which are 
very suitable for invalids. Such is Sandgate, which is at the base 
of the Folkestone cliffs ; it is protected on the east by these high 
grounds, and on the north by well-wooded hills. It is a warm 
and sheltered spot, with a climate as balmy as that of the shores 
of France on the Mediterranean, and the air is charged with 
health-giving ozone. Folkestone has a mean temperature of 50° — 
maximum 55-.3°, minimum 44-7° ; rainfall 22-3 inches ; the soil is 
sandy and porous. 

Margate occupies an exceptional geographical position, which 
has made it a health resort for generations ; it has the sea on 
nearly every side, from which it derives a wonderfully pure and 
strong atmosphere, ' The climate is equable, and the rigours 
of winter are tempered by influences ascribed to the mass of seas 
surrounding the promontory on which the town stands, and the 
aerial drift — that is, the circulation of the atmosphere in the north 
temperate zone — which has the gift of mildness in its flow.' The 
official records show that Margate, though cooler in summer, is 
actually warmer in winter than the suburbs of London, being 
i° colder than Bournemouth and 2i° colder than Ventnor, 
which has the highest winter temperature of all British seaside 
meteorological stations. The prevailing winds are south-west, and 
all winds blow from the sea except a direct west wind. The sun- 
shine record shows only 18 per cent, of sunless days. The rain- 
fall is as low as any in the kingdom. The temperature averaged 
50-9° in 1900, being 91° in the shade on the hottest and 21-6° on 
the coldest day ; the nights are warm, there being only a range 



360 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of 12° between the day and night. The subsoil is chalk and very 
permeable, and the air is so dry that the rapid disappearance of 
the effects of a heavy shower of rain, and the general absence of 
dampness, are features of importance to invalids and a material 
factor in the healthiness of the climate. ' Nature has provided 
Margate with the chief features of a marine health resort : an 
extensive sea-board, sea breezes from nearly every quarter, 
abundance of radiant sunshine, a low rainfall, an equable tem- 
perature, an absence of fog, a dry subsoil, and a moderate alti- 
tude.' The climate of Margate is very highly recommended for 
tuberculous diseases of bones, glands, joints, diseases of the 
spine, and early cases of phthisis. It is beneficial in all cases of 
debility following acute or chronic diseases, and as a place for 
recruiting after influenza, or for the victims of overwork or brain- 
fag, and convalescence from bronchitis, pneumonia, or pleurisy. 

There are many other places on the East Coast which are 
admirably suited as resorts for those who are suffering from 
general debility, antemia, the scrofulous or tuberculous diseases 
of glands, bones, and joints, and as a restorative to those who 
are recovering from many forms of acute illness. Not many 
places on this coast north of Margate are, however, suitable for a 
winter resort ; but Hunstanton has a westerly aspect, is dry and 
free from fogs, and sheltered from north and east winds. 

The coast of Wales offers many delightful spots of great value 
to the invalid, and of equal interest to the seeker after rest or 
change and recreation. 

Tenby may be made the headquarters or resting-place for the 
Pembroke coast. Pembrokeshire is especially adapted for the 
seeker after health. Its position at the extremity of South Wales, 
bordered on three sides by the sea, gives it the full advantage of 
the south-west winds of the Atlantic ; and its climate is more 
humid, its winters milder, its summers more moderate, than in 
any other part of the Principality. Tenby claims that it can 
hold its own with any seaside resort in the kingdom. A grand 
limestone cliff forms the background, the Carmarthen Bay is 
before it, a wide expanse of sand is at its feet, and the delicious 
atmosphere charged with ozone combines to make it a delight- 
ful seaside resort. The softness and mildness of the air, the 
absence of frost, and the sheltered situation, render it suitable for 



I 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 361 

a winter residence. The following figures compiled from ofticial 
records prove the eminently favourable climatic conditions of this 
watering-place : Mean temperature, average of twenty years — 
October to March, maximum 48-2°, minimum 41-7°, range 6*5°; 
April to September, maximum 58-6°, minimum 50-4°, range 8-2°. 
This bears favourable comparison with the records of Bourne- 
mouth, Brighton, Torquay, and other places. The pedestrian 
will find walks galore, the geologist and antiquarian food for 
reflection, the angler and sportsman abundant opportunities for 
trying their skill. It is suitable for the same cases as at Margate, 
as well as pulmonary and kidney diseases. 

Penmaenmaior has the advantage of sea and mountain, and is 
a fine health resort, with delightful walks and drives and charming 
surroundings. The climate is mild and dry, and exceptionally 
favourable for a winter residence. 

Aherystioyth has been called the 'Biarritz of Wales,' and is a 
delightful place with an equable temperature, its shores being 
swept by the Gulf Stream and the south-west breezes of the 
Atlantic. It was highly recommended as a place of resort for 
invalids by the late Dr. James Clark. 

South-port, situated on the west coast, is swept by healthy, 
equable sea breezes, free from harshness and from great warmth. 
The average temperature of the year is 48*5° : January, 38"1° ; 
February, .39-2° ; March, 41-4°; April, 46-4° ; May, 50-7°; June, 
57-7°; July, 59-7°; August, 59-8°; September, 56-0°; October, 
48-4° ; November, 44-4° ; December, 40-5". The wind from 
October to February is southerly or south-easterly. The rainfall 
is about 30 inches. Snow is very infrequent. Southport is 
recommended for bronchitis, nervous diseases, heart disease, 
and all kinds of children's diseases. 

The Isle of Man has a mild and equable temperature, due to 
the proximity of the Gulf Stream, being seldom too hot in 
summer or too cold in winter. Port Erin and Port St. Mary are 
recommended. 

To mention and give figures illustrating the advantages to be 
derived by a residence at all the watering-places in Great Britain 
would fill a volume. There is no lack of places to which invalids 
may resort in summer, but some attention should be paid to the 
nature of the patient's disease and the climate. The milder and 



362 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

more sheltered situations should be chosen for delicate and very 
sensitive invalids ; while for the relaxed and enervated, and those 
possessing less sensibility, the high and dry latitudes, hill districts 
and moorlands, v^ill be suitable. For a large class of cases the 
seaside watering-places with siea-bathing are the best in the latter 
part of the summer ; for others, the inland places like Malvern, 
Cheltenham, Leamington, Tunbridge Wells, Clifton, Okehampton, 
Matlock, Buxton, Ilkley, Harrogate, where drinking the water is a 
part of the cure, the moors and hills of Yorkshire, Cumberland, 
Westmorland, and Scotland, being particularly suitable for those 
needing a bracing and invigorating atmosphere, and who are not 
too sensitive to cool breezes. 

Malvern, Clifton, and Okehampton are more exciting, bracing, 
and drier than the health resorts on southern coasts, but not so 
mild ; consequently, these places are suitable for persons of 
relaxed and nervous disposition or languid habit, for weakened 
nerves and nervous diseases, dyspeptic persons, and young people 
of scrofulous or strumous disposition. Okehampton may be 
made a centre for Dartmoor, upon which shooting, golf, and 
other exercises may be had, and which is in many ways inter- 
esting to the seeker after change and fresh air. The Hotwell 
springs of Clifton contain sulphate and carbonate of lime, and the 
water is valuable in the treatment of gout, rheumatism, and 
many other cases treated by the alkaline lime-waters {q.v.}. This 
district has the advantage of beautiful scenery combined with a 
good climate. It is warm, genial, of equable temperature, and 
one of the driest places in England. The prevailing winds are 
south-west and west from the Bristol Channel. 

Matlock is of value as a health resort for its lovely scenery and 
pure, invigorating breezes from the hills. The health-seeker 
finds many places of interest in or near Matlock which appeal 
alike to the artist, the antiquarian, the historian, geologist, and 
botanist, or even the mere lounger. Writers of eminence have 
vied with each other in extolling the beauties of the place. 

Buxton owes its reputation and popularity, not entirely to 
its health-restoring baths and water (q.v.), but to its being the 
centre of a most interesting country, surrounded by picturesque 
scenery, and within easy reach of many charming places. Buxton 
is 1,000 feet above sea-level, surrounded by hills 500 to 1,000 feet 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 363 

high, which protect it from strong winds and the violence of 
rough weather. The dry and porous nature of the ground and 
the breezy surroundings insure a bracing climate of absolute 
purity, highly favourable to the promotion of good health. In 
this hilly district patients can breathe more freely, and they 
feel less fatigue after exertion than at many seaside resorts, 
because the atmospheric pressure on the body is less, and as 
the air is lighter, exercise can be taken with less fatigue. The 
baths are supplied with the natural mineral water containing 
salts of lime, far-famed for the cure of gout, rheumatism, 
sciatica, lumbago, diseases of the uric acid diathesis and of the 
nervous system. 

Harrogate has an established reputation as a health resort, 
apart from drinking the water (q.v.) of its celebrated springs. 
Harrogate is midway between the east and west coasts of 
England, has an altitude of about 400 feet above the sea-level, 
and is sheltered from winds. The subsoil is sand or sandstone, 
clay and carboniferous limestone. The atmosphere is pure, dry, 
and bracing, and possesses the strength-giving properties of moor- 
land or ' highland ' air. Being dry, it is less chilling than some 
situations having a higher temperature but moister air. The 
rainfall is not heavy, and the perfect system of drainage, com- 
bined with the nature of the soil, serve to remove it speedily after 
its fall, and, there being plenty of sunshine, there are few days in 
the year when the invalid cannot walk out, even in winter-time. 
The mineral waters of Harrogate are for composition and diversity 
unrivalled, and the best evidence of their curative power for a 
variety of ailments is to be found in the many thousands of 
visitors who flock there. 

The English lakes and moors are unrivalled for change of air. 
The rambles about the Yorkshire moors, as around Harrogate, 
Ilkley or Aygsforth, are numerous ; and the dales, especially 
Wensleysdale, Eyedale, Teesdale, Swalesdale, are lovely. Grange- 
over-Sands is bracing, and stiiif climbs on the Westmorland and 
Yorkshire hills can be had from there. Morecambe Bay is free 
from snow and fog, and has many interesting places within 
reach, and, like Southport, is suitable for a winter resort. 
Ambleside, Keswick, Windermere, Couiston, and UUeswater, 
are unrivalled ; the fine air and lovely scenery of the 



364 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Derwentwater, the romantic islands and majestic mountains, 
afford ample scope for all who desire to combine purity and 
freshness of air with boating, walking, mountaineering, or sport 
with rod and gun. 

Scotland. — Oban and the Western Highlands and Islands. 

Oban has been called the Charing Gross of the Highlands ; but, 
although it is a centre from which the health-seeker may make 
tours and excursions, it has per se a strong claim to be considered 
as a health resort. Situated on the west coast of Scotland, on 
the shore of a small bay, which, like many others, has been com- 
pared to the Bay of Naples, it has a climate which is mild, 
equable, and healthy. There is but a slight difference between 
the mean temperature of Oban and Bournemouth. At Oban it 
is 48'2°, and at Bournemouth it is 49-4°. The daily range of 
temperature also compares favourably with that of other well- 
known resorts ; thus the range at Oban is 10-3°, Colwyn Bay 
12-6°, Bournemouth 12-2°, Torquay 12-1°. This remarkable 
equability of temperature is mainly due to the proximity of the 
town to the warm ocean currents which wash the west coast of 
Scotland, to the prevalence of southerly and westerly winds, and 
to its protection from northerly and easterly winds by the 
surrounding hills, while the islands of Mull and Kerara screen 
it from the storms of the Atlantic ocean. The first half of the 
year is the driest. The last three months are the wettest, but 
they have a temperature as high and equable as that of the 
South of England. It is a grand place of resort for those seeking 
rest or change of air and recreation. The season is at its height 
in August, but those who can choose their time are recommended 
to go earlier. In June and July the glens have a freshness which 
they lack in later months, and, while the coaches and steamers 
are running, every accommodation can be had for rest and en- 
joyment, and the hotels are not overcrowded. June is perhaps the 
best month, though it is not hot, for the daylight is the longest, 
and it enables people to be out of doors from early morning till 
late at night. From Oban as a centre many places of beauty 
and romance can be visited by boat or coach ; sport can be had 
by rod or gun ; golf and cycling may be enjoyed, and there is 
mountaineering in plenty. There are scores of lovely spots along 
the coast and by the lochs where similar advantages may be 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 365 

obtained, but with greater quietude and less disturbance from 
the outside world. It would outrun my space to give any 
account of them. Rothesay, Strathpeffer and Pilkeathley are also 
well-known health resorts. 

Ireland possesses many places which are valuable as health 
resorts, and there is unrivalled scenery by river, lake, valley, and 
mountain. The highlands of Donegal have a bracing and 
invigorating air ; Dunraven is called the Brighton of Ireland ; 
and Rostrevor (co. Down), mild but not relaxing, is called the 
Mentone of Ireland ; they are on the Great Northern of Ireland 
railway. The south-west coast possesses the same climate in a 
more marked degree as that of Cornwall and Devon. Glengarift' 
(Cork) is said to have a more equable climate than any in the 
British Isles. Newcastle (Wicklow) and Kilkee (Clare) have an 
excellent chmate, fine air, mild, yet bracing. County Kerry 
affords not only magnificent and romantic scenery, but Park- 
nasilla, in the neighbourhood of Killarney, clainas a climate and 
sheltered position making it a veritable Irish Eiviera. 

FOREIGN CLIMATES AND HEALTH RESORTS. 

The South-West coast of France, from Bordeaux to Toulouse. 
The transition of climate from the South-West of England to the 
South- West of France is easy and natural, for the mean 
temperature is only about 4° higher ; both cHmates are soft and 
humid, and agree and disagree with the same class of diseases. 

Pau is the only place which needs mention ; it is pleasantly 
situated at the base of the Pyrennees ; it has a mild winter and 
spring, is free from sharp, cold winds and fogs, and possesses a 
dry soil. It is 6'^ colder than Rome in winter, and only 2^° colder 
in spring. Its mean temperature is — in November 47°, Decem- 
ber 42°, January 41°, February 43-6°, March 48-8°, April, 51-8°, 
and its daily range is 10-6°. Its chief fault is said to be an 
unsteadiness of the temperature. Nevertheless, it is a most 
favourable place for invalids ; and its vicinity to the watering- 
places of the higher Pyrennees is an advantage which offers to 
the invalid who has wintered at Pau a healthy summer chmate 
without the inconvenience of a long journey. 

The South-East coast of France, from Montpellier to the Var. 



366 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

This climate is warmer and drier than that of the south-western 
coast ; but it is subject to sudden changes of temperature and 
harsh, cold winds. The mistral, a cold, piercing wind, which 
sweeps from the bleak central plateau or from the icy region of 
the Alps, often continues to blow for many days together, and 
renders it an improper residence for people subject to pulmonary 
diseases. Many patients were formerly sent to Montpcllier, but 
it has fallen from its former high position as a health resort ; 
indeed, its high, exposed situation renders it liable to all the evils 
of this climate in a marked degree. Marseilles has a sharp, dry 
air, and forms a good winter residence similar to Brighton, and 
suitable for the same class of cases. Hyeres possesses the 
mildest climate of this district, which advantage is mainly due to 
its being situated at the base of a range of hills which protect it 
from northerly winds ; the extensive groves of orange-trees are 
proofs of the mildness of its climate, which experience has shown 
to be one of the most favourable in this part of France. 

The Riviera is that narrow strip of country from Hyeres to 
Genoa consisting of the coast of the Gulf of Genoa ; it lies 
between the ridge of Maritime Alps and the Mediterranean, 
where date-palms flourish and orange and lemon groves sweeten 
the air with the fragrance of their flowers. It is a delightful 
winter climate, resorted to by hosts of invalids and pleasure- 
seekers, attracted by its beauty as much as by its health-giving 
air. Nice, Mentone, Cannes, San Eemo, and Bordighera, are 
amongst the best-known places. 

Cannes is one of the most charmingly situated places on the 
Eiviera, and has a mild and uniform climate. Nice is the largest 
and most frequented town in the Eiviera, where the invalid and 
robust find the best provision for their comfort and amusement. 
The meteorological reports of both places are similar. At Nice 
the mean temperature in November is 52°, December, 46'9°, 
January 45-4°, February 46-5°, March 50-9°, April 57-1, with 
a daily range at Nice of 11-7°, at Cannes of 9-2°. Nice is 
protected by a steep and lofty range of hills from the northerly 
winds, especially the mistral, which is so injurious to invalids in 
Provence ; it has in consequence a milder climate and a com- 
parative degree of softness. It is not, however, exempt from cold 
winds in the spring; indeed, the prevalence of these constitutes 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 367 

some objection to the place for persons with pulmonary diseases. 
A gentleman writing from the Riviera recently said : ' At Nice one 
is sure to meet with beautifully fine weather, almost constant 
sunshine ; at the same time the air is dry and bracing, sharp 
and exciting. It is like breathing the air of a lofty mountain 
charged with an extra dose of oxygen . . . which enlivens and 
invigorates persons whose system is relaxed and debilitated.' 
Invalids may remain here until April or May ; indeed, they often 
leave Nice a few weeks too soon, and go to the Italian lakes as 
much too early. The summer in Nice is too hot for invalids of 
any class. The climate is suitable for people of languid or 
torpid constitution, young persons of scrofulous habit, or with 
chronic bronchitis and profuse expectoration, early cases of 
phthisis, and chronic rheumatism ; and in derangement of health 
from any cause in which a dry, warm, rather exciting climate is 
indicated, a winter at Nice will be spent with advantage. The 
climate is rather apt to upset the digestive organs in persons 
liable to indigestion or gastric catarrh, and a more abstemious 
diet is necessary for such persons than in England. The readi- 
ness of the air to irritate mucous membranes renders the climate 
unsuitable for certain cases, such as people who are very liable 
to catarrh of the alimentary canal, irritable dyspepsia, and other 
chronic diseases of the stomach, for bronchial disease of a dry 
and irritable character, or with scanty expectoration, and for 
persons of a nervous and irritable disposition ; nor is it suitable 
for early phthisis if it is found to derange the appetite and 
digestive organs. 

Mentone is, however, suitable for the class of persons for which 
Nice is unsuitable, and people go there again and again with 
advantage to their health. The mean temperature in November 
is 54°, December 49-1°, January 48-7°, February 491°, March 
52-8°, April 58°, and the daily range is only about 9-8° F. 
No watering place upon the Riviera is more picturesquely 
situated than Monte Carlo ; its splendid cHmate, continuous 
sunshine, its conjunction of Alpine landscape and luxuriant 
vegetation, extort the admiration of every visitor. 

The Riviera has also many good places, but of cheaper character, 
for a winter resort : places of quiet calm and beautiful scenery, 
especially Portofino, Levanto, Sestre-Levanto, Shegic, Nerir, 



368 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Spezzia, Viareggio, St. Margherita, Oneglia, Bordighera. Oneglia, 
between San Eemo and Alassio, is a quiet place with a mild, dry- 
climate, and free from the mistral. Bordighera, between Mentone 
and San Remo, is more sociable, faces south-west, and is protected 
from the north-east by the hills. A suitable inland resort is Ormea, 
3,000 feet high, and about thirty miles from Oneglia. Meran also is 
sheltered from the winds, has a cold, dry, bracing air, which is 
tonic and suitable for similar cases as at Nice. Vevey, on the 
Switzerland side, is a sunny place, not so mild as the Riviera ; 
Montreux, four miles away, is larger than Vevey, rarely has frost 
or snow, never fog, but plenty of sunshine, and is sheltered from 
the winds. 

Italy is bounded on the north by the famous Alpine range, in 
the transverse valleys of which are the Alpine lakes, the chief of 
which on the Italian side are the Maggiore, Como, Iseo, and 
Garda. Running southwards through the peninsula is the 
Apennine range, continuous with the Alps, and having the 
Apennine lakes adjacent — Trasimene, Bolsena, and Bracciano. 
The coast of the Gulf of Genoa has already been referred to as 
the Riviera. The lake region is sheltered by the Rhu?tian and 
Lepontine Alps, and thereby enjoys a milder climate than that of 
the plains further south and at a lower level. The Italian lakes 
present abodes of interest. Maggiore has celebrated baths ; 
Como, considered the most beautiful, has on its banks picturesque 
valleys and gay villas surrounded by luxuriant gardens and vine- 
yards ; the azure sky, the beautiful blue water, and the towering 
snowcapped mountains, make up a picture of indescribable 
beauty. 

The climate of Northern Italy has hot summers and rather 
cold winters, from the nearness of the Alps; the mountain 
barriers protect the places lying immediately at the foot, but the 
plains of Lombardy are rendered colder by the northern winds 
from over the Alps than the centre and south of Italy. The 
middle section has a pleasant climate, which on the whole is 
more humid and less exciting than that of the Riviera and 
Provence. The south is very hot and dry, and suffers from a hot 
wind from Africa, the sirocco, which forms an objection to the 
Italian climate, but of little weight during the winter months. 
Genoa has less sunshine, and the air is moister, and therefore 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 369 

colder, than the Riviera. Florence has a delightful climate, but 
can be cold from December to February ; the spring and autumn 
are the best times for invalids. Situated in the Val d'Arno, 
surrounded by the beauties of Nature and Art, it has been called 
' the fairest city on earth.' Milan is cold, but not so cold as 
Florence. Pisa and Rome have a similar climate, but Rome is 
somewhat drier than Pisa, though both are more humid than the 
Riviera and Provence ; frost is rare, but it may be bitterly cold 
in the morning. When all the qualities of Rome are taken into 
account, it is considered one of the best climates for an invalid 
who can take plenty of out-of-door exercise; but the Lung d'Arno 
in Pisa provides a more sheltered residence, and is better suited 
for those who can take little active exercise. Pisa has a very 
fine climate, glorious sunny days and brilliant nights, but there 
is a sharpness iu the air in winter which makes it necessary to 
wear more clothing there in the winter months than in Rome ; 
indeed, there is a very marked difi'erence between the tempera- 
ture in the sunshine and in the shade, and on a cloudy day the 
wind may be very cold. Both are suitable for nervous, excitable 
patients, and for consumptives, especially early cases. At Naples 
the climate is milder than that of Rome, and the temperature is 
more even throughout the year ; it is, however, exposed to the 
tramontane, a very cold, dry wind, which renders it less suitable 
for invalids, especially those with pulmonary or rheumatic com- 
plaints, but it is bracing and invigorating, not really unpleasant. 
The beauty of the scenery, the yachting, the general gaiety and 
excitement, render it an agreeable winter resort for those who 
visit Italy for change of air and scenery, for pleasure and recrea- 
tion, rather than as a health resort. The diseases most benefited 
by the Italian climate are chronic bronchitis and rheumatism, 
but especially cases of indefinite ill-health and early phthisis, 
where change of air and scenery are required, the season most 
proper being from October to May or June. The cUmate of 
Ajaccio in Corsica, which is the only place on the island suitable 
for invahds, is between that of the French Riviera and Algiers. 

The Alps, properly so-called, is the elevation above 6,000 feet 
to the permanent snow-line (8,000 to 9,000 feet). It is the system 
of mountains forming the boundary-line between France, Italy, 
and Switzerland, occupying a large part of the latter. The 



370 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Ehoetian Alps pass into the Austrian Tyrol, and the Dolomites 
form the boundary between Austria and Italy. The valley of the 
Inn, calltid the Engadine, is a famous winter health resort, 
Davos, St. Merit/, Maloja, and Innsbruck being among the 
principal towns visited by invalids. Numerous lakes lie in the 
outer valleys — as Zurich, Zug, Lucerne, Constance, Brienz, 
Geneva ; and on the Italian side the lakes mentioned above. 
The summer in this mountainous region is very short, and the 
air is very hot and close in the lower valleys, but clear and 
invigorating in the higher regions. The winter, owing to the 
general altitude of the country, is very severe ; but the climate is 
very suitable for certain cases of consumption and other diseases. 
Patients may reside for months together at Grindelwald, which 
is 3,400 feet ; at Davos, 5,352 feet ; or at St. Moritz, 6,000 feet 
above the sea. Davos may be taken as the chief example ; it 
lies in a valley in the very centre of the Alps, surrounded by 
mountains whose sides are covered with pine forests, and 
possessing a geological formation that insures immunity from 
damp, at the same time enjoying a favourable exposure to the 
full rays of the sun, even on a winter's day. The air is much 
rarer than at sea-level, the atmospheric pressure being one-fifth 
less, and it is extremely pure and dry ; there is a marked absence 
of clouds, but there are long periods of sunny days, which enable 
the invalid to sit in the open air for many hours daily. It is a 
bracing, tranquil atmosphere, undisturbed by the ' mistral ' and 
other cold winds, free from dust, fog, and damp, and forms a 
climate admirably suited to the particular class of patients sent 
there. There is no particular season, as patients reside there the 
whole year round, but those patients sent in June, July, or August 
get acclimatized to the atmospheric influences before they are 
called upon to bear low temperatures to which they have never 
been accustomed. Invalids are sometimes startled when they are 
told that they are to look for a cure in the cold, bracing climate 
of a high-lying Alphie valley, instead of turning their steps to the 
warm and seductive South ; but the proof of its curative effect is 
found in the increasing numbers which are benefited by it year 
by year ; theoretically, its influence is not well understood, l)ut 
practically it is very successful. 

Sir Herman Weber said the main features of a mountain air 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 371 

should be : purity, comparative absence of floating matter, dry- 
ness of the air and soil, coldness or coolness of the air, but great 
warmth of sun temperature ; intensity of sunlight ; rarefaction 
and stillness of the air, a large amount of ozone — all of which are 
claimed for Davos. The same authority classifies the cases of 
consumption which are suitable for treatment by a climate of 
great altitude thus : Hereditary and acquired tendency to phthisis ; 
the so-called phthisical habit ; all other conditions comprised by 
the term phthisis, excepting the following 'unsuitahle cases : 
persons who cannot eat or sleep, or feel the cold too severely at 
high altitudes ; cases of advanced phthisis ; persons of irritable 
constitution ; cases of continued fever, rapid progress of the 
disease or loss of weight, or complicated by emphysema, 
empyema, albuminuria, ulceration of the larynx, or disease of the 
heart. Cases with a tendency to haemoptysis show most satis- 
factory results, but they should make the journey up by easy 
stages (see also the chapter on ' Consumption '). The mountain 
climate is also to be recommended for all invalids of a relaxed 
and debilitated constitution, for many cases of debility, anaemia, 
scrofula, and convalescence from long illness ; for delicate 
individuals of both sexes ; and for persons who are suffering 
from overwork, too great a tension of brain or body, insomnia, 
and various neuralgias and other nervous affections, and all who 
are anxious to spend their holiday both pleasantly and profitably 
while regaining physical or mental vigour. 

Ley sin is a climatic station in the Vaudois Alps, 4,785 feet 
high, surrounded by pine forests, possessing the qualities essential 
for tubercular patients : purity of air, freedom from dust and 
organic matter, dryness, low temperature, brilliant sunshine, and 
claims all the advantages previously spoken of. 

Austria. — The Austrian Alpine district includes the Dolomites, 
the Stelvio, Salz-Kammergut, Puster, and Ampezzo valleys ; the 
lake of Garda, and the beautiful Inn Valley (Innsbruck) ; also 
Lake Constance, Baths of Bormio, Bad Gastein, Gries, Meran, 
Levico, and Carlsbad (Bohemia). The Kitzbuchel, in the Northern 
Tyrolese Alps, 2,526 feet above the sea, backed by the Dolomite 
peaks, has great climatic and picturesque advantages ; it is mild, 
equable, and almost windless, and is favourable as a resort in 
the winter months for early phthisis and all kinds of patients 

24-2 



372 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

requiring a cool dry air ; there is ski-ing, skating, and other 
amusements as at Davos and St. Moritz. Innsbruck, the 
fashionable capital of the Tyrol, has an autumn and winter 
climate suitable for persons who need their constitution to be 
built up as a preventive measure, and for the same class of 
patients as at Davos. It is surrounded on all sides by high 
mountains, fully protected from north winds ; when cold, it is a 
dry cold ; when there is a wind, it is usually warm. In Austria 
tlie Grape-cure is taken at many places in the autumn, as in the 
Tyrol, Meran, Botzen, and Gries, which towns are in the midst 
of great beauty, sheltered from the north, open to the sunny 
south. Grapes also form part of the ' cure ' at Wiesbaden and 
other places. The cure, which occupies six or seven weeks, 
consists of the consumption of from 3 to 12 or more pounds 
of grapes per day, the quantity being gradually increased. 
Naturally, the diet which accompanies them must be simple, and 
should be taken in accordance with medical instruction ; and the 
grapes are best swallowed after just cracking them with the 
tongue, as chewing so many would injure the enamel of the teeth. 
The grape-cure is very suitable for some forms of dyspepsia and 
other affections of the stomach and bowels, for consumption, 
anaemia, chlorosis, some diseases of the kidneys, and alcoholism ; 
it is contra indicated in cancer of the stomach and other organs. 

Germany has many watering-places of note, as at Baden-Baden, 
Wildungen, Homburg, Bellthal, Driburg, Selters and Salzschlirf 
(Bonifacius), in Hesse Nassau; all along the Ehine Valley and in 
Ehenish Prussia are many places of beauty and charm, where 
persons may recuperate : at Gerolstein in the Eifel Mountains, at 
Aix-la-Chapelle, at Eoisdorf near Bonn, at Kreuznach, in the 
Taunus, and the Neuenahr, especially at Nauheim, which places 
are referred to in various sections herein. The Black Forest can 
be recommended for many people. Freiburg is a charming 
town with a bracing climate and balsamic air from the pine- 
woods, very suitable as a general resort for persons of ill-health, 
and is a centre from which excursions into the forest can readily 
be made. 

Belgium has resorts which can be recommended both for their 
salubrity and economy. Ostend, Adinkerke La Panne, Blanken- 
berghe, Coq-sur-Mer, Duinbergen, Nieuport-Bains, and Wenduyne, 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 373 

have an invigorating air and a combination of sea and rural 
charm. Spa is a celebrated watering place. 

Spain and Portugal. — The Pyrenees in the north form a mag- 
nificent range of mountains little inferior to the Alps, where 
health-giving breezes and a pleasant climate render the district 
of value to many people. There are numerous places, like 
Bareges, Amelie, Boulou, Vernet les Bains, Carnigou, and 
Rubinat, with their waters, where health may be sought by 
change of climate, scenery, and the adjuncts of medicated baths 
and waters. The great elevation of most of the central districts 
of these countries causes the winter temperature to be low, while 
great heat prevails in the summer. In the south and east the 
climate is hot, and tropical plants grow freely. On the Portuguese 
side of the coast, Lisbon, on the Tagus, and Cintra, a few miles 
from it, are beautifully situated, the latter place being much 
resorted to by the wealthy natives. Mont'-Estoril is called the 
Eiviera of Portugal. Oporto has a charm partly natural and 
partly artificial ; the Douro flows between banks of the richest 
foliage ; Bussaco, 2,000 feet above the sea, is simply superb with 
its olives, oranges, pomegranates, and eucalyptus. Yachting off 
Portugal in a warm sea provides the means of being out of doors 
day and night, and is very suitable for many people. The Spanish 
coast may also be a similar means of providing yachting expedi- 
tions into the Mediterranean. Huelva, in Andalusia, is suitable 
as a health resort : average temperature, December 59°, January 
56°, February 63°, the night temperature being 4° to 8° less. 

The Islands of the North Atlantic Ocean in temperate latitudes 
have a climate which is more steady than that of the Mediter- 
ranean health resorts ; and various groups of islands between the 
28th and 38th degree of latitude are frequented by invalids who 
require a mild and equable climate. Bright's disease, chronic 
rheumatism and gout, consumption and other diseases of the 
respiratory organs, and some nervous diseases, are indications 
for which these places are best suited. 

Madeira is one of these, and stands in great repute. Being in 
latitude 32° 40', its mean temperature is in November 65-8°, 
December 63-2°, January 60-4°, February 61-2°, March 61-2°, 
April 64-0°, and its daily range only 5-4°. A comparison shows 
the mean annual temperature to be about 6° higher than that of 



374 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Nice and Eome ; the winter is 12° warmer than that of Italy and 
South France, and the summer is 6° cooler. A central ridge of 
mountains tempers the heat in summer, and gives Madeira the 
advantage of a cool land breeze during the night, which, by 
alternating with a sea breeze in the day, moderates the summer 
heat in a remarkable degree. Invalids may choose an inland 
situation as being cooler in the summer, while Fanchal, the chief 
town on the coast, affords the best winter residence. 

The Canary Islands have nearly as great repute as Madeira. 
This group of islands are also in the Atlantic, not far from the 
west coast of Africa. The chief towns are Teneriffe and Grand 
Canary, between 27° and 30° north latitude. Being further 
south, the mean annual temperature is somewhat higher than 
that of Madeira, and the climate is not so equable. These 
islands are, however, very suitable for invalids. Santa Cruz is 
200 to 300 feet above the sea. In winter and spring the average 
mean temperature is 65° F. ; the average humidity is 65° ; average 
yearly rainfall 11 '5 inches. There is an abundance of sunshine, 
and no sudden changes of weather. The nights are warm and a 
little dew falls, and there is always a pleasant breeze from the 
sea. Chest cases, Bright's disease, gout and rheumatism, are 
especially benefited by the climate. 

Tlie Azores lie far out in the Atlantic, in about the same 
latitude as Lisbon, a few degrees further north than Madeira. 
The chief town is St. Michael. These islands have a fine climate, 
mild and humid, less warm than Madeira in winter, but more 
oppressive in the summer. They possess no advantages over 
the latter. 

The Bermudas are a cluster of islands in the same latitude 
as Madeira, and have a similar climate — mild in winter, but 
extremely hot in the summer, and exposed to the liigh winds of 
the western Atlantic. 

North Africa has a climate which is well suited to invalids — 
those who must rest as well as those who are able to travel and 
obtain change of scenery and occupation. 

Algeria is a land of sunshine, with a climate which competent 
authorities have pronounced to be one of the finest in the world. 
Most of Algeria is a high land, and well sheltered ; the neigh- 
bourhood of the sea exercises a softening influence on the 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 375 

atmosphere, so that, without being too dry, dryness predominates 
everywhere. It is a region of charm and novelty, of camels and 
Arabs, of palms and other tropical plants, of mirages and glorious 
sunsets. The mountain scenery is claimed to equal in sublimity 
that of Switzerland. A combination of European and Mahom- 
medan interests opens up to us a thousand historical memories 
and customs, but, nevertheless, presents all the conveniences of 
civilization. Winter is the best time for travelling through 
Northern Africa, which is in the same latitude as Syria, Japan, 
and California. For the invalid, however, the best season is from 
December to March. The land is filled with glorious sunshine, 
and the air is usually warm ; nevertheless, warm clothing should 
be provided, for some of the mountains are covered with snow 
for six months in the year, and cold winds occasionally blow from 
them. It is advisable, therefore, to wear the same clothing as 
in England at the same season. A few hygienic measures are 
recommended until one is acclimatized, such as avoiding the 
mid-day heat and the night fogs. Perhaps also it is better to 
take a tonic on arriving and to dilute the wine with mineral 
water, or only to drink weak tea or coifee. Algeria is a vast 
sanatorium, and many of its towns and villages are in suitable 
spots for invalids ; indeed, two special places — Algiers and 
Biskra— have a preference which is supported by meteorological 
observations. The rainfall is small at both : Algiers = 740 milli- 
metres (29-3 inches) and Biskra = 200 millimetres (7-8 inches). 
The rain is small and falls irregularly — just enough to wash the 
sky and soak the ground. The temperature is as follows : 

Mean of Year. July. Jaimary 



Algiers 65° F 

Tlemcen... ... ... ... 61° F. 77 

Biskra 70° F. 79 

November temperature [^^;^^^ maximum, 69° F. 



6° F. .53-8= F. 

1° F. 30 8° F. 

9° F. 54-1° F. 

minimum, 55° F. 

50° F. 



Either place is suitable for the invalid, according to personal 
feeling and convenience. 

Algiers claims to have a climate which is warmer and more 
equable than that of the Riviera or Pau, but it is less stimu- 
lating than Nice or Cannes. It is neither too hot nor dry, but is 
intermediate between a dry, stimulating climate and a warm, 
moist one. The total rainfall exceeds that of Paris ; but there 



376 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

are few rainy days, and it falls mostly at night. It is favourable 
to persons suffering from early phthisis, cardiac disease, asthma, 
bronchial complaints, and other diseases of the mucous mem- 
branes. Mustapha is a beautiful suburb of Algiers, about three 
miles above it, equally suited to the same cases. Below it is 
the blue Mediterranean ; above it the land rises to a height of 
3,000 feet ; the temperature rarely drops below 45° or 50° F., 
and is usually between 55° and 60°. Snow is unknown. Thence, 
many journeys may be made of interest to the historian and 
antiquarian, while the botanist, geologist, and ornithologist will 
find abundance to interest him. 

Biskra, an oasis on the edge of the Sahara Desert, with its 
palm groves, has a delightful climate, and in winter many people 
flock there. The sirocco and simoom may come and bring with 
them an impalpable dust ; but these are dry, hot winds, and not so 
injurious as a hot, moist wind, and they rarely come in the 
winter months. The rainfall, as observed, is very low. It is very 
suitable for most cases of consumption, and a large number of 
invalids go there, also for chronic bronchitis with profuse expectora- 
tion. It is also recommended for cases of nervous depression, 
moroseness, ennui, and many nervous complaints. A short 
distance off are the sulphurous thermal springs and city of Sidi- 
Okba, where the waters may be taken for the same complaints 
as those from other sources. It is a fashionable resort. 

Other places will also claim the attention of the invalid who is 
able to travel, as Tunis, with the ruins of ancient Carthage. 

Oran, at the foot of the Djebel, has beautiful surroundings, 
and is a centre from which Tlemcen, the Holy City, and 
Hammam-Meskoutine can be visited. At the latter place is the 
group of hot springs with medicinal waters. Baths are open 
in the season, and render useful service by contributing to the 
establishment of health in cases of Bright's disease, diseases 
of the pelvic organs, chronic rheumatism and gout, and all 
kinds of chronic inflamraation. This place is in the midst of 
lovely surroundings — mountains, with pine - woods one over 
another being behind it, and the Mediterranean in front. 

Egy])t is a grand winter resort, especially Cairo and Luxor. 
Light dresses, as for July in England, are usually worn, but the 
cold is sometimes severe, and warm underclothing and wraps 



THE ATE AND CLIMATE 377 

should be provided. The hotels and pensions at Cairo and 
Luxor are replete with modern conveniences, but they open on 
the dusty street, and therefore are not all that should be desired 
for consumptives. But special accommodation is provided for 
the sick at Helouan, about fifteen miles from Cairo, just within 
the area of the Libyan Desert, Here the air is dry and free from 
organic taint, and dust is not breathed, as it never rises to the 
level of the mouth except in a storm. The Egyptian climate 
is very suitable for early phthisis, and even in advanced non- 
feverish ones the disease is arrested. It is also indicated in 
Bright's disease, chronic rheumatism, anaamia, syphilis, and 
laryngeal affections. The cold season is short, but is capable of 
doing harm to invalids who live in hotels or houses where no 
adequate means of heating them is provided. The bright sunshine 
is a factor in curing patients, by increasing the activity of the skin 
and general metabolism. Nervous patients do not bear it very 
well at first, but they soon become accustomed to it if they keep 
in the shade during mid-day. The time of departure from Egypt 
depends upon the patient. Those with heart disease should 
leave at the end of March, before the heat becomes too great for 
them ; but the usual time of leaving this country for all other 
cases is the beginning of May. 

Morocco is a good place for those who are run down, but not 
really ill, especially for good sportsmen. The life is mostly in 
the open air, travelling by horses or mules, and sleeping in tents. 
The principal shooting-grounds are near Larache, Alcazar, and 
Wazzan ; but Tangiers, Tetuan, and Ceuta have a good climate. 
The best time is in October and November or February and 
April. The chief feature against it is the unsettled state of the 
country at the present time. 

South Africa is a health resort. Cape Colony has long enjoyed 
a reputation for the salubrity of its climate, and reports of a 
uniformly favourable character have been made by medical men 
all over the Colony, which establish incontestably the beneficial 
efi'ect of the climate upon all suffering from chest diseases. 

Cape Colony has an extended area, and presents varied 
physical features — high mountains, low valleys, elevated table- 
lands, and a variation of climate in accordance with them. The 
seasons are not so well marked as in Europe. Spring merges 



378 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

into summer, and there is little change between autumn and 
winter. At Christmas it is nearly midsummer. The spring 
(October to December) is the most delightful season. The 
heat is nowhere excessive, but in the valleys it becomes very 
oppressive. There is a maximum of sunshine, buoyant atmo- 
sphere, clear and cloudless blue sky, and a cool night succeeds 
a warm day. The mean annual temperature is 61° F. in the 
shade. The excessive dryness, clearness, and rarefaction of the 
atmosphere, added to other characteristics, are a series of con- 
ditions typically suitable for the treatment of pulmonary diseases. 
The rainy season varies in different parts, being in the winter on 
the south and south-west coast and in the summer on the eastern 
coast, so that the invalid need have no difficulty in getting from 
place to place to avoid the wet. It is recommended that the 
most advanced cases of chest diseases should winter on the 
plains and pass the summer on the elevated mountain lands of 
the interior. Sufferers from bronchial, asthmatic, and all pul- 
monary diseases, especially those with inherited tendency to 
phthisis, are benefited by the climate ; but the patients should 
be selected as for other places, and they are advised not to tarry 
too long in Cape Town, but to go to a locality up the country, 
as Ceres, etc. 

The eastern district, where Grahamstown is situated, is 
divided into three divisions : The coast plateau, with East 
London, Port Elizabeth, Bathurst, etc., up to the first mountain 
range, about 1,000 feet high ; the midland j^lf^teau or terrace, 
including Grahamstown and King William's Town, between 
1,000 and 2,500 feet above the sea; and an upioer plateau, with 
an altitude of 2,500 to 5,000 feet above sea-level, including 
Aliwal North, etc. The coast climate is warm, moist, and 
equable ; its winter cold is moderated by the sea. The 
climate of the midland terrace is cooler, drier, and more genial, 
but with greater range of temperature. The upper plateau or 
mountain climate is drier still, more bracing, but has hot days 
and cold nights. Grahamstown, in the midland region, has 
the advantage of an elevated site, fine climate, and pure air. 
Patients can easily be moved up or down — to the soft warm 
balmy air, where frosts are unknown, or to a dry mountain air. 
Comfort and luxury are within reach, and pleasurable occupation 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 379 

or amusement suitable to every taste. Deep, wooded kloofs 
afford abundant excitement to the sportsman, shady pools give 
attraction to the angler, and picturesque scenery affords in all 
seasons pleasing change and variety. The district of Aliwal 
North in the upper plateau is recommended as a valuable resort 
for the treatment of phthisis by the ' altitude ' method. 

The Karoo District has a climate of extreme dryness, severe 
and prolonged droughts, hot days and cold nights. The tempera- 
ture, although great, is better borne than in regions where the 
atmosphere is moister. Dr. Sanders says : ' The winter is the 
best for pulmonary invalids ; the air is remarkably clear, bright, 
and bracing, and a lire is generally a luxury rather than a neces- 
sity, though the night and early morning is cold, and snow falls 
on the higher mountains.' The Karoo climate is favourable for 
an out-of-door life. In the summer the whole day can be passed 
in a well-shaded veranda or a hammock slung on trees, and in 
the winter the calm dry air is inviting to exercise. In the summer 
the evenings can be utilized for exercise if the patient is prudently 
clothed. 

KimhcrUy is on the high inland plateau, about 4,100 feet above 
the sea; it has a rainfall of 18 inches; mean humidity, 55 per cent, 
of saturation ; sunshine very great ; temperature (mean), October 
to March 72°, April to September 56°. 

Speaking of the class of persons most suitable for climatic 
treatment in South Africa, Dr. Symes Thompson said : ' It is 
useless to send to South Africa a man or a woman whose comfort 
depends on the luxurious surroundings of home life, and who 
will never cease to grumble when difficulties arise. . . . What 
is really more important than the nature or the stage of the 
disease is the character of the patient and his readiness to enter 
into and enjoy his new life. He should be a man of resource, 
and able to interest himself in the life of his neighbours.' 

The West Indies, which consist of a great chain and many 
groups of islands, are almost entirely within the tropics. The air 
is always hot, alternately wet and dry, and hurricanes occur 
between July and October. Tours in the West Indies should be 
taken between November and April ; the weather is then charm- 
ing, fresh trade-winds blow during the day and temper the heat, 
hurricanes are unknown at this time of the year, and, excepting 



380 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

for the tropical vegetation, the visitor would imagine he was in 
England in the month of August. The islands have a beauty of 
their own, not to be found in the tropical continents. The Blue 
Mountains, rivalling the Alps in height, added to a luxuriance of 
vegetation and a climate which Froude called ' inimitable,' make 
a charm beyond compare. The temperature is never below 60° F., 
but the tropical heat is tempered by the breeze which blows daily 
from the sea and nightly brings a freshness from the uplands. 
Europeans find pleasant homes on the higher lands in most of 
the islands. Jamaica is the largest of the British West Indies. 
It is mountainous, with a belt of lowland near the coast. Situated 
in the Caribbean Sea, with the Gulf Stream flowing about it and 
the trade-winds over it, and a lofty range of mountains extending 
its entire length, it forms a delightful health resort, and is recom- 
mended as an ideal land of rest and comfort. The atmosphere, 
laden with spices and sparkling with mountain ozone, is con- 
stantly in motion, and the temperature varies only between 70° 
and 80° F. all the year round. Mosquitoes, flies, frogs, snakes, 
and fogs are practically unknown. The delightful scenery, the 
pure warm air, the balsamic odour of the spices, the ample means 
of recreation, the good hotels and boarding-houses, and the ample 
means of visiting other islands or making a tour of them all, 
combine to make Jamaica a suitable resort for pulmonary, renal, 
and many other classes of invalids throughout the winter months. 

America is so vast as to afford climates of every description. 

Canada has a lower temperature than that of Europe in the 
same latitude ; the cold of winter and the heat of summer are 
both greater ; the western provinces are warmer than the eastern. 
The western winds from the Pacific Ocean raise the temperature 
in the States on the Pacific slope, but at the same time cause 
a considerable rainfall, and the cold Polar current causes the 
eastern provinces to have a lower temperature ; but the climate 
is remarkably uniform over very large areas, and is bracing and 
invigorating. 

TJie United States also have hotter summers and colder winters 
than occur in the same latitude in Europe ; the western States 
and coast are less subject to the rigour of winter and excessive 
heat of summer, owing to the influence of the warm winds 
from the Pacific ; the eastern States have a drier climate, but 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 381 

are more subject to extremes of heat and cold. The whole 
country is subject to great changes of temperature, known as hot 
or cold leaves ; very cold winds are called blizzards, and very 
violent ones tornadoes. The atmosphere is very fine and clear, 
owing to the dryness of the winds which sweep over the continent 
from the west. The absence of a mountain range from east to 
west causes the cold northern or hot southern winds to be felt for 
long distances. The influence of the Gulf Stream is felt along 
the Atlantic coast from Florida to Cape Hatteras, which causes 
the difference of climate between the winter of that region and 
New York. From there being such extremes of heat and cold, 
it may be perceived that every part of the United States is not 
equally suitable for the person of delicate health. There are, 
however, very many health resorts at favourite spots along the 
sea-coast and by the great lakes, at the sources of many of the 
mineral waters (q.v.), in the warm southern States of Arkansas, 
California, Texas, Carolina, Florida, New Mexico, or in the 
Adirondack Mountains and the high and dry regions of Arizona. 
A few particulars only can be given. 

Long Island is far out at sea, off the coast of New York. The 
greater part of its subsoil consists of sand and gravel, and the 
land steadily rises from south to north. Through the centre is 
a range of hills covered on the south by pine-trees. The mean 
annual temperature is 51-8° F., mean summer, 70°, mean winter 
30°. The mean annual temperature of New York City is 52°, 
Atlantic City 52-7°, Nantuchet 49-5°. The humidity of Long 
Island is especially low in the pine region, and is lowest in 
winter and spring ; the reverse occurs on the mainland. This 
also compares favourably with inland places : Humidity of Long 
Island = 72-7 per cent., New Y'^ork State 75-5, Block Island 84-5, 
Atlantic City 80-5, San Diego (California) 69"5. Sunshine : The 
average of all days on which the sun shines sufficiently to take 
out-of-door exercise is as follows : Long Island 300, Nantuchet 
200, Atlantic City 260, Denver (Colorado) 312, and Phoenix, in 
Arizona, 330. 

The prevailing wind of Long Island is in summer south and 
south-west, cooled by the Atlantic Ocean ; in winter north-west, 
with long periods, when it is south-west. The pine forest is six 
or eight miles wide, and extends for sixty miles through Suffolk 



382 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

County, between the central range of hills and the south shore. It 
is claimed that Long Island has a mild and equable climate, with 
abundance of sunshine, absence of moisture, air free from organic 
and inorganic impurities, but containing balsamic exhalations 
from the pine-trees and iodine and bromine from the sea, which 
make it eminently suitable for ' increasing the functional activity 
of the circulatory organs, for convalescents from acute diseases, to 
accelerate tissue changes in surgical diseases ; for invalids who 
cannot bear changes of temperature ; for tuberculosis, neuras- 
thenia, nervous exhaustion, and insomnia (Eoss). 

Colorado. — Colorado Sj^rijigs has a line climate with plenty of 
sunshine and almost cloudless skies ; the summer is not too hot, 
the nights are cool, the days seldom, if ever, uncomfortably warm; 
never muggy, but always balmy zephyrs ; a warm winter resort 
lor early cases of phthisis. Denver is well elevated ; has 42 per 
cent, of clear days, which compares well with the 27 per cent, of 
New York ; it has a dry, bracing atmosphere, free from dust. Early 
phthisis, neurasthenia, and many cases of ill-defined ill-health are 
benefited by this climate. 

Arkansas, in the neighbourhood of Hot Springs, has a mild 
climate lacking the extreme heat of summer and cold of vv^inter ; 
in summer-time the air is tempered with breezes from the moun- 
tains, and in winter the average temperature is only slightly 
below that of New Orleans and other Southern cities, but there 
are occasional sharp frosts. The hot springs are in a_ valley at an 
elevation of 1,000 feet above the sea, and about 600 feet above the 
surrounding country. The waters are drunk for gout, rheumatism, 
and other diseases treated by the alkaline and saline waters (see 
' Waters '). 

California has hot and cold mineral springs of medicinal value 
in nearly every county of the State. At many of the sources of 
these waters Nature has been bountiful in the bestowal of a 
delightful scenery and climate, so that they are much resorted to 
by persons in search of health (see ' Waters '). There is every 
diversity of climate in this State, ranging from the dry air of the 
deserts to the warm, moist air of the sea-shore, or the invigorating 
air of pine forests and mountains. The mean annual temperature 
is 50° F., neither hot nor cold. Snow falls once in many years, 
roses bloom throughout the winter. The trade-winds from 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 383 

the Pacific make San Francisco a valuable health resort, as 
well as Los Anj^eles, about 300 miles below it. Other seaside 
resorts are Santa Barbara, Santa Monica, Long Beach, and New- 
port. The climate is delightful ; infrequent are the days when 
invalids may not be out of doors breathing a fresh and healing 
air, thereby regaining strength. The Palm Valle}'^ and Springs, 
guarded by the San Jacinto mountains, and on the desert's edge, 
have a purity of air and dryness {humidity averages 15 per cent., 
and may be as low as 9) which render them valuable resorts 
for consumptives and others. Santa Ysabel, near Paso Kobles, 
has no peer in California as a health resort ; it has warm 
and sulphurous springs, and is in the midst of beauty. The 
mountains of Santa Jacinto, Gorgona, and Bernardino pro- 
vide a mountain climate with a warm dry air. Temperature : 
San Francisco, maximum 80° to 95°, minimum 30° to 40°, mean 
54° to 58° ; Los Angeles, maximum 92° to 108°, minimum 28° to 
36°, mean about 61° ; Sacramento, maximum 100° to 108°, mini- 
mum 19° to 34°, mean 59 to 60°. 

New Mexico. — The Las Vegas hot springs are at an altitude of 
6,767 feet, surrounded by an equable and invigorating mountain 
climate, tempered by altitude in summer and latitude in winter, 
and in almost constant sunshine. Similar remarks apply to the 
mountainous region of Arizona, where the high, dry atmosphere, 
the warmth and sunshine, make a climate admirably suited for 
incipient phthisis, Bright's disease, rheumatism, nervous diseases, 
and general debility. 

Florida occupies the whole of the peninsula which bounds the 
Gulf of Mexico on the east, and it is therefore surrounded on 
three sides by the sea, and is especially influenced by the warmth 
of the Gulf Stream. The climate is very mild and equable, and 
the district is a grand winter resort for persons who suffer from 
tubercular and pulmonary diseases generally, chronic gout and 
rheumatism, for delicate children, aged persons, and all who need 
a warm and moist climate. 

Australia has a climate which is generally healthy for 
Europeans, but the temperature varies from tropical in the north 
to warm temperate in the south. The atmosphere is remarkably 
dry over almost the whole continent. Most winds are from the 
south-east, and hence the eastern coast regions have a good rain- 



384 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

fall throughout the year, but over the great plains of the interior 
rain is scanty, and the air becomes hot and rarefied during the 
hot season. The elevation of Queensland causes the temperature 
there to be less than it otherwise would be, and the cool winds 
from the southern ocean modify to some extent the heat of 
summer by counteracting the heat from the interior. In Victoria 
the highest known temperature is 111° F. in the shade and the 
lowest 27° ; generally it goes over 100° about three times in 
a year, and freezes about as often. The average rainfall is 
25-5 inches per annum. In New South Wales the temperature is 
never very low, and the snow-line on the mountains is high ; the 
climate is very dry as a whole, but the rainfall varies from 
51 inches per annum near Sydney to 11 inches in some other 
parts which are subject to great droughts. Almost all parts of 
the colony are very healthy. 

New Zealand has a warm temperate climate ; there are no 
extremes of temperature in the lowlands, but the winter is very 
severe in the mountainous regions. Generally speaking, the 
western coast has a more equable temperature than the eastern. 
The prevailing winds are from the north-west, and bring rain 
with them. The rainfall at Hokitika, on the west of South 
Island, is 112 inches, but at Christchurch is only 28 inches ; in 
the North Island the rainfall is 58 inches per annum at Mount 
Egmont and 37 inches at Napier. While the great elevation of 
much of the land lowers the temperature, the vast body of ocean 
on all sides moderates the heat of summer. The coast towns and 
residences are much sought after during the hot season and as 
health resorts. 

The voyage to x\ustralia or New Zealand from April to Sep- 
tember is often prescribed for consumptives, but it cannot always 
be beneficial to them, as they must pass through a variety of 
climate. It is injurious to be exposed to cold, windy, and wet 
weather or insufi'erably hot weather ; in one part of the voyage 
the temperature may be excessively hot, in another bitterly cold, 
with tempest and rain. It is recommended that the patient 
should not go by the Suez Canal route, as he will be in contact 
with the land every few days, and each fresh start may cause 
sea-sickness, and from the Canal to Cape Lewin the atmosphere 
is steamy, and not beneficial (three weeks). By the Cape route, 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 385 

however, these dangers are avoided : he will go through the 
tropics in a direct line, which will give him a maximum of hot 
weather, all the rest of the voyage being practically cool. The trip 
occupies about seven weeks, which is a little longer than by the 
other route, but in favour of the consumptive. It is argued that 
travelling by steamer brings a too rapid change of climate for the 
febrile consumptive, whereas a sailing vessel encounters those 
changes more gradually, but is in danger of being becalmed, and 
having to wait many days for a favourable wind. The sea 
voyage provides abundance of sunshine and fresh air uncon- 
taminated by dust or other particles ; metabolism is thereby 
increased, and when ' appetite waits upon good digestion ' the 
patient sometimes puts on a stone or two of weight during the 
voyage out and home. In favour of sailing vessels, it may be 
said that there is no throbbing of machinery, no smell, no 
cramping of space, and the life on board, even if monotonous, 
is peaceful and undisturbed. In all cases patients are warned 
against overeating, as there is little exercise to be had on board, 
and against sleeping at night on the deck, even in the tropics, as 
the temperature is uncertain. A voyage to South Africa and back 
in the autumn, or to South America or the West Indies from 
January to April, is of equal value in proportion to its duration. 
These voyages may be taken by persons with early phthisis, 
phthisis, convalescence from pneumonia, pleurisy, and sonie kinds 
of chronic bronchitis, and also by people worn down by overwork 
or worry, insomnia, neurasthenia, and other nervous diseases. 

In concluding this chapter on the climatic treatment of disease : 
consumption is a malady in which a change of climate may be of 
real benefit, but it should be tried early in its course if it is 
intended as a curative measure. It is especially in that peculiar 
state of deranged health which may be called pre-phthisis, and 
in those with inherited tendency to the disease, before there is 
any actual manifestation of trouble by deposition of tubercle in 
the lungs or haemoptysis, that change of climate is a powerful 
adjunct to other modes of treatment. Sunshine and pure air are 
of importance to all people, but their value for early phthisis, 
phthisis, persons of a deUcate constitution, and those broken 
down by disease, cannot be overestimated. A proof of this may 

25 



386 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

be seen by contrasting the children of the slums and closely- 
populated districts of our large towns and cities — pale, stunted, 
and liable to disease — with the chubby-cheeked, vigorous children 
seen in our country lanes and villages. 

Certain general characteristics will be found in the place which 
is best suited for the consumptive : it should be near the coast, 
and sheltered from the cold winds ; the soil should be dry ; the 
mean temperature such that he can spend a large part of his 
time out of doors, and bear to have his windows open night and 
day ; the temperature should be equable, and its range should 
not be more than 10° or 12° F. It is difficult to fix any degree of 
humidity, but an excess is injurious, especially if fogs abound or 
cold winds are prevalent. A warm, moist atmosphere is best for 
those who have a dry, irritable cough, without or witli little 
expectoration, and a warm, dry atmosphere for those who have 
more expectoration. A continuous dry, cold atmosphere is very 
good for some cases, and is a main feature in the altitude treat- 
ment (see 'Alps '). One may judge of the beneficial effect of the 
climate by its influence upon the appetite, and upon the cough 
and breathing. If the cough becomes less, the breathing free, 
and expansion greater, the effect is good. The effect of a warm, 
moist atmosphere on a delicate-chested individual is that he can 
breathe with greater freedom ; the softness of the air exerts a 
soothing influence on the lungs, and, no longer afraid to take 
a deep inspiration, air is drawn more freely into the chest, 
greater expansion takes place, and the general condition is 
improved. When the temperature of the air is fairly high and 
equable, the daily range being small, more watery vapour can be 
held in suspension by the air ; but if the temperature of the air 
is lower or the nights are cold, owing to a greater range of 
temperature or other frequent variations, then the moisture in 
the air becomes visible and sensible, and it settles down in the 
form of fog or mist, and the place, instead of being mild and 
genial, becomes raw and cold — such is not the place for con- 
sumptive or weak-chested persons. Every place suitable for 
invalids must have enticing surroundings, and beautiful scenery, 
so that the patient may be encouraged to spend his time out of 
doors in walking, riding, or other exercise, or basking in the 
sunshine ; and it is better tLat the house he occupies should be 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 387 

in a district where the houses are scattered and detached from 
each other by a good space around them, rather than in one 
where the houses are clustered together, however small the 
population may be. The patient who is threatened with phthisis, 
or is in the early stage, or has well-developed phthisis, may 
spend the winter with advantage in the South of England or 
South-West of Ireland. Ventnor or Undercliff and the Scilly 
Isles are suitable for the whole winter ; or the autumn may be 
passed in one of these places, and from January to April at 
Bournemouth, Torquay, Falmouth, Penzance, Hastings ; the 
spring at Margate, Tenby, or Southport ; and the summer at 
other seaside places, such as Hunstanton, Cromer, Skegness, 
Sutton-on-Sea, etc., on the east coast, or at Aberystwyth, 
Llandudno, Blackpool, Grange-over-Sands, Isle of Man, or in 
the dry and bracing climate of Clifton, Malvern, Buxton, Matlock, 
Harrogate ; and June or July is the best month to go to Oban 
and begin a tour in the Scottish highlands or islands, which may 
last through August and September, to the patient's advantage. 
In most cases, those who have passed the winter in the milder 
health resorts of the south ought to pass the summer in a 
drier and more bracing air, where exercise can be taken. The 
early months of the year may be passed at Marseilles, Pau, 
Hyeres, the Eiviera ; from March to May or June in Italy, at 
Pisa, Rome, the Italian lakes ; the summer is best spent at 
home, or in a voyage to the Cape or to Australia and back, and 
this also is the best time to begin residence at Davos or other 
mountainous sanatoria ; the autumn may be spent in South 
Africa, or the whole winter at Madeira, the Canaries, Egypt, 
Algeria, Jamaica, Florida, New Mexico, or California. 

In chronic bronchitis the morbid conditions of the mucous 
lining of the bronchial tubes, trachea, and larynx are usually 
greatly improved by a change from a cold, damp air to a mild 
and dry one. As a general rule, the situations which are suitable 
for phthisis will also agree with a patient sui3:ering from bronchitis. 
But the cases may be divided into two classes : those of dry 
bronchitis, in which there is an irritable state of the mucous 
membrane without much expectoration ; and the second class, 
in which the mucous membrane is much less sensitive, but there 
is a copious secretion of phlegm and a relaxed state of the 

25—2 



388 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

system generally. For the first class a warm, moist climate, like 
Torquay, Penzance, Scilly, Hastings, Undercliff, Mentone, San 
Remo, Florence, Madeira, the Canaries. For the second class of 
cases a long sea-voyage is sometimes beneficial, and a warm, dry 
climate, like Bournemouth, Brighton, Tenby, Clifton, the Riviera, 
Pisa, Rome, Algeria, Egypt, South Africa. 

In cases of chronic rheumatism, the climates of Rome and 
Nice, Algiers and Egypt, are very good ; but the health resorts 
where mineral waters are drunk and baths of the same are used 
are equally important, as Buxton, Matlock, Woodhall Spa, and 
Droitwich in England, Contrexeville and Maggiore on the Con- 
tinent, and Hot Springs, Arkansas, U.S.A. 

Good climates for gouty affections are Genoa, West Indies, 
Egypt ; but, as in rheumatism, drinking the waters and using 
medicated baths at their source is also very good. 

There are several groups of diseases which may be mentioned 
together. The climates of Margate, Skegness, Tenby, Aberyst- 
wyth, are recommended for tubercular diseases of glands, bones, 
and joints, for diseases of the spine, and general debility dependent 
on a strumous, scrofulous, or cachectic condition ; also Woodhall 
Spa in Lincolnshire, St. Moritz and Kreuznach on the Continent 
(see ' Waters'). 

A warm, moist climate, like Falmouth, Penzance, Torquay, the 
Scilly Isles, Isle of Wight, Mentone, San Remo, is recommended 
for the debilitated, aged, and those who have a winter cough, 
laryngeal troubles, asthma, chronic bronchitis of a dry, irritating 
character, for a large number of phthisical cases. 

A warm, dry climate like Brighton, Bournemouth, Margate, 
Nice, Cannes, Pau, Rome, Pisa, Algeria, Egypt, South Africa, 
for those with passive congestions, copious secretions from all 
mucous surfaces, uterine discharges, and a relaxed state of the 
general system. 

A dry, bracing climate like Malvern, Clifton, Buxton, Matlock, 
Ilkey, Harrogate, Scotland, Switzerland, and other hilly or 
mountainous resorts, is suitable for all cases of relaxed states of 
the system, passive congestions, debility, amemia, neurasthenia, 
and nervous diseases generally. 

The period of returning from the milder and warmer regions 
where the patient has been sojourning ought to be carefully con- 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 389 

sidered. The invalid may be so much improved as to consider 
himself well, and be impatient to return home. Influenced by 
this and other reasons, he may leave a southern climate too early, 
and so induce a relapse of the disease which he set out to cure. 
The patient who has wintered in a warm climate should not 
return to a more northerly, cold, and windy region until the 
spring is well advanced, or even until summer-time. If he has 
spent the winter in Italy at Naples or Eome, it is better for him 
to remain about the Italian lakes until June ; similarly, if he has 
wintered in Africa or in the Canaries or Madeira, he should not 
leave his winter quarters too soon, for he will find a perceptible 
difference in the temperature, and will probably require additional 
clothing. 

TROPICAL CLIMATES. 

Africa. — The greater portion of Africa is in the torrid zone, by 
reason of which the climate is very hot ; although, when com- 
pared with the tropical area of other continents, the temperature 
has a greater uniformity. Algiers, in the north, has a tempera- 
ture of 74° in summer and 54° in winter ; Cape Town in the 
south averages 67° in summer and 54° in winter ; Sierra Leone, 
which is nearer the equator, has a temperature of 82° in summer 
and 77° in winter, with an annual range of only 5° ; the mean 
temperature of the continent is, however, about 80° F. The 
seasons are governed by the rainfall, and dry and wet seasons 
follow each other. The rainy season of the Soudan is from July 
to September, when the sun is at its zenith north of the 
equator ; but the rainy season of the Zambesi valley is from 
December to the end of February — that is, when the sun is in its 
zenith south of the equator ; and this period is, therefore, the hot 
season of the south. 

In Northern Africa : Egypt has a climate which is hot and dry ; 
a hot, dry wind, called the khamsin, blows from the desert in April 
and May. The summer rain begins in July and lasts till September, 
which causes the annual rise of the Nile and the productiveness 
of the surrounding countries. The westerly winds, which blow 
from the Atlantic, deposit most of their moisture upon the 
mountains of Algeria and Morocco, and arrive in Egypt dry ; the 
north-east trade winds, which blow from the land, also bring 



390 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

very little rain. Tlie water which flows down the Nile and 
inundates the country is chiefly derived from rains which fall in 
Abyssinia and districts further south, about the tributaries of 
the river. The rainfall is more abundant in the Soudan, and 
causes an abundant and luxuriant vegetation there. 

In Western Africa, between the Senegal and Orange Eivers, the 
climate is very hot and moist, which makes the district unhealthy, 
owing to the prevalence of malarial and other fevers. 

South Africa has a clear, dry atmosphere, and a climate which, 
on the whole, is fairly healthy. But fever is prevalent in Natal 
and parts of the Transvaal and Zambesi valley. The rainfall 
varies considerably, averaging 43 inches per annum at Durban, 
but only 2 inches at Port NoUoth. The most rain falls on the 
eastern side, because the trade winds blow from the ocean, and 
their rain is deposited on the eastern range of mountains ; these 
winds are aided by the great heat of the interior, which causes 
an indraught of air. On the western coasts, however, the trade 
winds blow away from the land and have already lost their 
moisture in their journey across it. These winds meet with the 
western winds from the ocean, but as the latter blow from a cool 
to a warmer air, they are enabled to retain their moisture, and 
consequently bring little rain to the country. The rainy season 
is, in the eastern districts, from September to April. The rainfall 
increases towards the north, but diminishes towards the west. 
On the Great Karroo the rainfall averages only 9 inches per 
annum ; towards the mouth of the Orange River the district is 
almost rainless ; in the south-west district of Cape Colony the 
rain falls chiefly between April and October. The island of 
Madagascar, off the east coast of South Africa, has a similar 
climate to that of the mainland. 

South America is very largely within the tropical zone, and has 
a tropical climate, with alternate hot and dry seasons. The 
position and height of the Andes influences the rainfall and the 
wind. In the northern region, the east trade wind prevails and 
brings a copious rain, but Brazil has a scanty rainfall, and Venezuela 
has severe drought in the dry season. The Argentine Republic 
has a sufficient rainfall and considerable warmth, and Paraguay 
has a climate and soil which are superb. Mean annual tempera- 
ture is 75°, mean summer 83°, mean winter 60°, said to be free 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 391 

from miasma, and remarkably suitable for the cultivation of 
maize ; the climate of Uruguay is similar. In the southern 
portion north-west winds are prevalent, and the rain falls chiefly 
on the western slopes of the Andes, while the Pampas and steppes 
of Patagonia are dry. The extreme south has a disagreeable 
climate, with fog, rain, and cold winters. 

Mexico and Central America are also chiefly within the tropics, 
but the greater portion of the land is of such an elevation that 
only a comparatively small portion has a tropical climate. This 
elevated plateau extends from the United States to Central 
America, and gradually falls from 7,500 feet in the Plateau of 
Anahuac to less than 1,000 feet in Panama. The cHmate varies 
in accordance with the elevation, being relatively cold on the 
higher parts for this region of the earth and temperate in the 
lower regions of the plateau ; but in the coast region it is 
decidedly hot, and the land is swampy or marshy in many places. 
The prevailing winds are from the west, and the great height of 
the mountains causes rain to fall chiefly on the western slopes. 
There are alternate wet and dry seasons, but the rainfall is 
insufficient for agriculture over large areas, and irrigation is 
necessary to assist in this object. 

The Southern States of North America are (some of them) 
subtropical, as Florida, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, 
Louisiana, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and Lower California. 

Asia 'is a huge continent with groups of many islands. The 
tropical districts include India, Ceylon, Burma, Siam, the Malay 
Peninsula, Annam, Cochin China, South China, Formosa, the 
Philippines, Moluccas, Borneo, Java, Sumatra, the Straits Settle- 
ments, Polynesia, and many groups of islands in the Pacific and 
Indian Oceans ; it is therefore impossible to deal with each one. 

The group of islands forming the Japanese Empire are, with the 
exception of Formosa, entirely in the temperate zone. Their 
eastern shores are washed by the Japanese Ocean current, which, 
like the Gulf Stream, brings heat from the equatorial regions and 
warms the coasts which it washes ; hence the eastern shores of 
Japan are warmer than the western ; indeed, the latter may be 
very cold in winter, although in the same latitude as Northern 
Italy. The islands are mountainous ; active volcanoes exist in 
some of them, and earthquakes are frequent but not very destruc- 



392 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

tive. The rainfall at Tokio is C5 inches per annum, and is every- 
where abundant. Formosa is warm all the year, the difference 
between the mean winter and mean summer temperatures being 
only 20° F. 

The climate of China varies in proportion to the greatness of 
the area occupied. China proper has a fairly equable climate, 
but in the north-west there are extremes of heat and cold, and it 
is very dry ; in the north a cold winter follows a warm summer, 
the Gulf of Petchili being frozen over. The temperature of Pekin 
averages 80° in July, but only 20° in January ; it has therefore 
a great range of 60° F. The winter gets warmer as we travel 
further south, and in Southern China the difference between the 
mean temperature in summer and winter is only 20° F., and it is 
similar to that in Hong-Kong. China and Manchuria are well 
watered. The rainfall on the east coast averages 40 inches per 
annum, but, although it is abundant everywhere, it diminishes 
from south to north. Violent storms called typhoons occur in the 
China seas. 

The climate of Indo-Ghina (Burma, Siam, Annam, and the 
Malay Peninsula) is hot, moist, and unhealthy. A heavy rainfall 
is brought by the south-west monsoon, and vegetation is most 
luxuriant. That of the islands of the Malay Archipelago 
(Sumatra, Java, Borneo, New Guinea, the Moluccas, Philippines, 
Celebes, and many smaller islands) is likewise very hot and 
moist because they are in the torrid zone, and the south-west 
monsoon brings a heavy rainfall, which averages 75 inches per 
annum, while the mean annual temperature is over 80° F. The 
typhoons, or violent storms, of the China seas affect all the 
adjacent districts and islands. 

The climate of India is as various as that of any other large 
area of the earth, but a large portion of it is tropical. Three 
seasons are observable throughout the territory : the hot season 
(March, April, and May), rainy season (June to October), cool 
season (November to end of February) ; but this division is not 
quite correct for all parts — e.g., the rainfall is variable, and the 
rainy season does not occupy the same months everywhere. The 
wettest regions are the hill district of North-Bast India, the Kasi 
Hills, and the Western Ghauts ; but the valley of the Indus is 
dry over a very large area. The climatic conditions depend very 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 393 

much upon the prevailing winds, which are called monsoons. The 
wind blows for six months from the south-west, and this is called 
the south-west monsoon. It is laden with moisture, and a heavy 
downfall occurs on the Western Ghauts, in the valley of the 
Ganges, and on the hills in North-Eastern India ; but much of 
the intervening country lacks rain, because there are no hills to 
produce a condensation of the moisture ; on the contrary, the 
great heat radiating from the surface of the earth helps the air 
to retain its moisture. The wind then blows for six months from 
north-east, and is called the north-east monsoon. It brings rain 
to the eastern coasts and districts, but the rainfall from it is far 
more uncertain in the affected regions than that due to the 
former. The rainy season in Southern India is July, August, and 
September. 

The monsoons are of regular occurrence, although they appear 
at slightly different times in the regions affected. On the Malabar 
coast the south-west monsoon begins in the middle of April, and 
continues to blow until September, when it loses its violence ; the 
north-east monsoon begins in the southern part of this coast 
about the end of October, but does not reach the northern 
until two weeks later. On the Coromandel coast the south- 
west monsoon begins in April, but does not blow strongly until 
June, and declines in September ; the north-east monsoon begins 
about the middle of October. The direction of these winds is 
much influenced by the hills, the south-west monsoon being 
diverted from its course by the Himalayas and turned into a 
south-east wind blowing up the valley of the Gauges ; and as it 
loses much of its moisture in travelling from the sea over so 
large an area of land, it deposits very little rain in North- West 
India, which, in consequence, is comparatively dry. The setting 
in of the monsoon is marked by storins of wind and rain on the 
Malabar coast, but the clouds thus driven along are diverted by 
the Western Ghauts, so that it is now the dry season on the 
Coromandel coast. The northern extremity of these mountains, 
however, allows the monsoon to carry the clouds, without check, 
all over the country. The eastern mountains, having a lower 
elevation and being at a greater distance from the sea, cause a 
smaller condensation of cloud and rain in their neighbourhood, 
owing to which reasons the rainy season in the Carnatic only 



394 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

lasts two months, while in the Circars the wet season is much 
longer. The province of Coimbetoor has a similar rainy season 
to that of Malabar, owing to the lowness of the hills in that district. 
The tebhad is the native name for a searching hot wind which 
blows over Central Asia and its hot sandy plains, and carries clouds 
of impalpable dust which act like particles of fire on the skin. 

The northern parts of Hindostan have a dry clim-ate, because 
the monsoons do not extend further north than latitude 24° 44'. 
During the rainy season of the south the atmosphere is here 
generally cloudy, but little rain falls. In Scinde and the Punjab 
the rainfall is very small, and in Northern India generally 
the rains are less violent, but the cold is more intense and the 
heat greater. The crops of temperate climates are grown in the 
north-west, where the winter is about equal to the summer of 
Northern Europe. Bengal has a tropical climate and products. 
Two crops are produced : one in summer, another in winter. In 
the northern provinces of Cashmere, Nepal, Cabul, and Gurwal, 
above which tower the Himalayas, ' the natives of colder climates 
may enjoy the delights of a lengthened spring, a real winter, and 
the genial heat of a healthy summer.' 

In Scinde the proximity of the deserts makes the air very 
dry and the heat excessive. The temperature in June and 
July ranges from 90° to 100°, but in the winter the temperature 
in Northern India drops to 30°, and water freezes. Equally 
great variations of temperature occur in Eajpootana, Delhi 
district, Oude, and as far down as Benares and Allahabad. 

At Calcutta the temperature registers 110° in April, but it may 
fall to 72° at night ; in December it may fall to 52° during the 
north-east monsoon. Madras has a lower temperature than 
Calcutta, the annual mean temperature being 80° ; it seldom 
rises above 91° when it is hottest in July, and it may sink to 
about 75° in January, when it is coldest. The temperature of 
Bombay ranges from 64° to 100° throughout the year. 

The soil of India, which of course influences the salubrity of 
the climate, presents variations in proportion to its area. The 
plains through which the Ganges runs have a black alluvial 
mould, but other parts of Bengal have a considerable extent of 
clay-loam, and so have the regions of the Punjab and Mysore. 
Near the coasts, and also in Scinde, Eajpootana, and Guzerat, 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 395 

the soil is very sandy. The soil of the tableland of the Deccan and 
of the southern provinces consists largely of loam or rock. In 
Malabar, at the foot of the low hills, it is a reddish clay. The 
Coromandel coast has a sandy soil which reaches to the foot of 
the Eastern Ghauts, and is very barren. The subsoil of many 
parts of Hindostan proper is chalk and clay. The country is 
very fertile near the mouths and on the banks of rivers, where 
irrigation has been carried out, rich crops growing everywhere. 
Even in the dry season, when water is not easily obtained and 
Nature languishes, two or three days of rain will transform a 
scorched country or seemingly barren plain into a verdant and 
glorious picture. 

LIFE IN THE TROPICS. 

Every district presents a different climate, from its conjunction 
of mountain, sea, river, coast, jungle or sandy area, the flora and 
fauna, general elevation, and cultivated or uncultivated condition. 
But the great difference between the seasons in temperature, 
moisture, and electrical condition of the atmosphere is equally 
important in its effect upon the resident who is not a native of the 
country. 

The hot season is the most healthy. Although the heat is very 
great and causes discomfort, the temperature is usually pretty 
equable, and the body is not subject to sudden changes, ex- 
posure to wind, damp, and chill, as at other times ; neither are 
malarial exhalations so abundant. Those who have lived long in 
a tropical country, and whose skin has lost its functions to a 
great extent, enjoy better health at this time, because the in- 
creased temperature causes perspiration which relieves the rough- 
ness and dryness of the skin to which they are liable. Sunstroke 
and skin diseases are common at this season, also cholera in 
certain districts ; and the heat often produces great debility, 
which renders the advent of the rainy season critical or even 
dangerous to such persons. 

In the rainy season sudden changes of temperature occur, 
which, together with the excessive moisture of the atmosphere, 
tends to check the previous abundant evaporation from the body, 
in consequence of which the exuded perspiration streams copiously 



396 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

over the cutaneous surface, whereby the skin is chilled, and a 
tendency to lower the vitality and to congestive maladies is very 
common amongst non-native residents. The diseases which are 
common at this time are : affections of the stomach, liver, and 
spleen, diarrhoea and dysentery. As the season advances, and 
the soil and marshy areas or pools begin to get dry, malaria is 
abundant and tropical fevers are prevalent in a very large number 
of districts. 

The cold season is the most enjoyable period, especially to those 
newly arrived in the country, and for all persons of sound con- 
stitution, but it cannot always be regarded as the most healthy 
time for the sickly and delicate. For those with languid or feeble 
circulation and old residents this period is often fraught with 
discomfort and annoyance. People often suffer from dryness of 
the skin, burning of the hands and feet, and general irritability, 
which do not trouble them in the hot dry season. At this period 
fevers of an intermittent type prevail ; coughs, colds, and chest 
diseases are common ; the liver and bowels are disordered ; but 
the kidneys usually act vigorously and make up for the absence of 
perspiration by the excretion of a large amount of pale, limpid 
urine. 

The best time to arrive is undoubtedly the cold season or its 
commencement ; for although this period is spoken of as being 
less healthy than its opposite, new arrivals enjoy better health 
then, and it enables them to become gradually inured to the heat 
of a tropical summer. 

Acclimatization. — Tt used to be thought that a protracted 
residence in a hot climate would enable a person to get accus- 
tomed to its influences. But no matter how many years a njan 
lives in the tropics, his best health is usually during the first few 
months or years of his residence ; so that in the sense of being 
hardened to malaria and climatic influence, acclimatization is no 
longer believed in. But a person who is long resident in the 
tropics may acquire a partial immunity to malaria. The new 
resident may have a good deal of fever of one type or another, 
but in a year or two he may be afflicted less violently, or he may 
only have a milder type and at longer intervals. There is, how- 
ever, ample proof that in many cases the health begins to 
deteriorate from the very commencement of his life in the tropics. 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 397 

Long residence within the torrid zone gradually changes the 
constitution, and is adverse to the health of many non-natives. 
The exposure to heat and malaria, and the generally different 
mode of life, results in a state of debility or cachexia in which 
low forms of disease are very common, and it is necessary to 
husband the strength in every possible manner. Little items 
which one would laugh at in temperate regions often assume in 
the tropics an importance far out of their apparent value. For 
instance, the heat causes an increased secretion of perspiration 
by the skin, and diminished excretion of urine by the kidneys ; 
whence it follows that, if the skin be suddenly chilled, the waste 
materials of the body are thrown back upon the liver and kidneys, 
and congestion of the liver or kidneys results. The respiration 
and pulse are quickened by the heat ; the blood-forming organs 
suffer and anasmia occurs ; the brain and nervous system, first 
excited by the change of climate, becomes depressed after some 
months of residence. The individual loses weight and strength 
and becomes cachectic, by reason of which a more stimulating 
treatment of illness is frequently required than would be 
necessary for the same persons in their native climate, or would be 
necessary in newly-arrived, robust, and plethoric persons ; just as 
the well-fed European does not require that amount of stimula- 
tion which is found necessary for the anaemic inhabitants of large 
towns. This condition of cachexia is not so quickly developed in 
some constitutions as others. Vigorous and robust persons are 
seen who have long resided in India, Africa, South America, the 
West Indies, and other tropical countries ; but an inquiry as to 
how many of the companions of their earlier days of residence 
have been able to stand it shows how very few are acclimatized. 
The chief causes aie that sufficient care is not taken in the 
selection of people sent out, that they are not protected when 
they arrive from the evil influences of the climate, that the 
climate of the district has not been sufficiently studied ; but 
equally important are the effects of intemperance, carelessness 
in diet, and malaria. Much has been done in the past generation 
to diminish the effects of climate in most of the districts where 
men go upon military service, for purposes of commerce, mining, 
or the development of the country ; and an infinite benefit will 
accrue from recent knowledge of the causes of malaria and means 



398 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

taken to check it, but much remains to be done by each individual 
with regard to personal hygiene. There are many people who 
possess a naturally feeble constitution and can never long sustain 
a residence in hot countries ; but if they are able to make their 
health a study, and have command over the best things at their 
disposal, they may be able to stand it much longer than without 
such consideration. Much, indeed, can be done by careful 
dieting, daily bathing, and exercise, and by avoiding exposure 
to the excessive heat of middle day or the mists of night. It 
may be stated generally that persons of badly-formed physique, 
narrow chests, large joints, or of a phlegmatic or lymphatic 
temperament, ought not to go at all ; and persons who have 
long been insufficiently fed and clothed, who have not had proper 
out-of-door exercise or fresh air and sunlight, as with many of 
the poorer denizens of large towns and cities, or who have well- 
marked signs of scrofula or struma, are not fit subjects for a 
tropical climate until their health has been improved and their 
constitution built up. 

The individual resident of the tropics must attend to his own 
personal hygiene. He must not pursue the same course of 
living which he did at home. For instance, he should somewhat 
reduce the consumption of animal food, of wine and spirits. On 
the contrary, many young men take a larger amount of animal 
and other rich foods, besides ale, wine, or spirits, than they ever 
did at home ; and this, combined with the excitement, novelty of 
scenery and customs, heat and dust, or moist and malarial atmo- 
sphere, soon renders them liors de combat, or provides an inroad 
for one of the many chronic ailments which creep insidiously 
upon the non-native resident of the tropics. It is necessary, 
above all, to keep in order the functions of the skin, liver, and 
kidneys — those organs which are chiefly concerned in ridding the 
system of waste materials. For the skia, nothing is more im- 
portant than daily washing the body in cold water, sponging it 
freely, and drying it carefully. Cleanliness is even more essential 
than in the cooler regions of the earth, because of the unpleasant 
perspiration. Great sweating of the hands, feet, groins, genitals, 
and armpits is very common in the hot season, and is increased 
by excesses in eating and drinking. A cold or tepid bath is the 
best ; only the robust should bathe in rivers, lakes, or the sea, 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 399 

and none are advised to do so in mountain streams, because 
the water is too cold. Out-of-door bathing should not be taken 
during the heat of the day, nor before the sun is well up (say 
8 a.m.). Many attacks of illness are due to injudicious bathing. 
It may induce cramp (which may be relieved by vigorous move- 
ment of the limb, or rubbing it towards the heart with a rough 
towel), and a long swim may induce severe exhaustion or failure 
of the heart. Many natives are much troubled by vermin, and. 
when used as servants the non-native resident is liable to become 
affected by the same from occasional personal contact with them, 
or with articles they have handled. Lice, fleas, and bugs are 
very common, but may be destroyed by the use of carbolic or 
other disinfectant solutions, and by boiling the clothing. The 
chigger is a flea, smaller than the common one, which is trouble- 
some to the residents in America, Africa, and other hot countries. 
It lives on the ground in sand or grass, and affects domestic 
animals, whence it gets to man, and the female insect burrows 
in his skin, and causes a painful swelling about as big as a pea, 
which often suppurates. The itch is due to another female 
insect, which penetrates the skin to lay eggs, and is best treated 
by sulphur lotions and boihng the clothes. Maggots in the skin 
are due to another kind of insect, found in houses, on animals, 
and on the leaves and fruit of bananas. The larva is about the 
size of a flea, and penetrates the skin of human beings, where it 
grows for weeks and causes a stinging sensation, usually followed 
by a boil, which should be opened. Africans call this ifwingire. 
Prickly heat is another troublesome ailment of the skin, due tO' 
a congestion of the sweat-glands, which causes the skin to feel 
rough and dry, and covered with red papules. It occurs mostly 
in hot, moist months, and it itches horribly. It may be relieved 
by bathing the skin with vinegar and water or an alkahne wash, 
taking an aperient and temperate diet, and wearing light linen 
clothing or underclothing. But no remedy is of much avail if the 
person persists in drinking very much fluid of any kind, and it 
often occurs after a too liberal diet. Boils, nettle-rash, and 
erythema, or inflammatory redness of the skin of the arms, le^-s, 
or neck, often occurs from undue exposure of these parts to the 
sun. Soda or other alkahne wash with a light diet usually 
relieves them. 



400 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The Clothing. — The power which man has over his clothing 
materially assists him in protecting his body from the effects of 
climate. The temperature of the atmosphere in the tropics is 
often greater than that of the human body for months together, 
which causes a greater circulation of blood through the skin, and 
a large evaporation of moisture from it in the form of perspira- 
tion. Clothing is needed in the tropics, therefore, not to keep the 
body warm exactly, but to protect it from the solar heat. At the 
same time, the non-native resident in the tropics should be so 
clothed as to prevent sudden chilling of his body, which may 
readily occur in spite of the heat. Absolutely the best dress for 
this purpose consists of a fine flannel garvient next to the skin 
worn day and night, over which other clothing may be worn 
according to the season. Some persons prefer a mixture of silk 
and wool or cotton and wool for combinations or shirts and 
drawers. Stockings should consist of cashmere, silk, or cotton 
for the hot season, but woollen ones will be necessary if much 
marching has to be done. If the wearing of flannel causes 
prickly heat, a thin cotton or silk vest may be worn under it ; but 
flannel is essential. When travelling in a hill district, or cooler 
region than the usual place of residence, extra flannel should be 
worn ; and when standing out of doors for a few minutes after 
walking or other exercise extra clothing should be worn. The 
upper garments may consist of many kinds of material, but 
cotton, linen, muslin, or silk are the best. White is, of course, 
the colour which absorbs the least heat, and is, therefore, the 
most suitable. White drill, linen, cotton, or flannel tennis-shirts 
are usually worn. Cotton is admirable, except when the body 
is bathed in perspiration, which it absorbs readily and retains. 
Linen does not absorb moisture so readily, is colder, but does not 
soil so easily. The belt, or kamarband, is necessarj', should 
be of flannel, about 10 inches broad, and should be worn loosely 
round the body. Sleeping-suits should consist of flannel or other 
woollen material. The early part of the night may be so hot that 
no bedclothing can be used ; but the middle of the night or early 
morning is often so chilly as to endanger the person who is not 
properly protected. Boots or shoes should be of soft and pliable 
material, have an inner sole of cork or asbestos, fit well, and 
yet be roomy. The legs must be properly protected when out 



THE AIE AND CLIMATE 401 

walking or riding, for which purpose putties are preferable to 
leggings. No part of a man's clothing is more important than his 
head-gear. This should consist of a good light pith helmet or 
straw hat, well ventilated, shading his eyes in front and pro- 
tecting his neck behind. It is advisable never to go out of doors 
into the direct rays of the sun without such a protection upon 
the head, to avoid sunstroke or other ailments. Everybody 
ought to be provided with a mosquito-net. We know now that 
the unpleasant irritation and swelling which follows a puncture 
of the skin by one of these insects is the least injury they inflict, 
for they frequently infect the bitten person with fever ; where- 
fore a good mosquito-net is of immense value to all who live 
where such insects exist. 

Exercise. — The continuance of health depends largely upon 
taking regular physical exercise during the cool of the day, and 
this exercise should be as much as the season will permit, avoiding 
undue exposure to the sun. The tendency in the tropics is to 
lead a sedentary life on account of the heat, which is entirely 
wrong, because it is so much more injurious than a sedentary 
life in the temperate regions. Exercise must be taken, and the 
tendency not to take it must be rigorously fought if the health is 
to be maintained. The resident should avail himself of whatever 
is offered in the way of recreation and amusement — bowls, quoits, 
cricket, tennis, rowing, jumping, shooting, theatricals — but 
lounging and apathy must be discouraged. Ennui drives many 
men to intemperance and venereal excesses, with their subsequent 
ailments, which, like other diseases, are troublesome to treat in 
proportion to bodily debility. Early morning is the best time for 
outdoor games and exercises, when the air is cool and balmy and 
the body fresh and able to endure activity. Walking or riding 
before the morning bath is excellent. It is recommended that 
all journeys should be begun by 6 a.m., and ended before noon for 
that day. 

The importance of a due amount of sleep for every human 
being has never been disputed, nor that the proper time for 
repose is during the hours of darkness. Important as this may 
be in the temperate regions of the earth, it is far more important 
for the denizens of hot countries. No amount of sleep in the 
daytime can compensate for the loss of sleep at night, because 

26 



402 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the conditions are never the same — the disturbances from noise, 
the heat, light, and dust, are such as to prevent perfect repose, 
and the sleep is not so refreshing to the nervous system. The 
total daily amount of sleep should average ten hours, of which 
one and a half or two hours may be occupied in the siesta or 
noonday rest, which is almost universal in hot countries. 

The Site for a House. — ^It has always been regarded as 
important to choose a proper site for a house even in temperate 
regions ; but this is of more importance to the white man when 
living in the tropics than elsewhere, because of the danger from 
malaria and the other evils pertaining to the soil, which have an 
exaggerated importance. Nevertheless, the same principles guide 
us in that selection as elsewhere. The house should be built on 
an elevated and dry area, as the declivity of a hill, an elevated 
bank of a river if it has a slope each way, or a tongue of land 
running seaward. Drained and cultivated land is the best, with 
a subsoil of granite or other rock from which the water soon 
drains away. Clay-slate or shale, limestone, chalk, or gravel and 
sand, if of good depth, are good sites for a house. But bad sites 
are chalk or sand with an under layer of clay, which is very 
liable to be cold, damp, and malarious, also the low banks of 
lakes or rivers, the dried bed of a river, clay soil, marshes, or the 
lee-side of marshes, gorges, and jungle. Wet, damp, or swampy 
regions, and uncultivated ground with damp or porous soil and 
rank vegetation, are factors which assist in the causation of 
malarial diseases, and are otherwise unhealthy. The impor- 
tance of draining swampy ground and of clearing jungles of all 
deciduous vegetation, especially when they exist in the neigh- 
bourhood of a settlement, cannot be questioned, for if this be not 
done the best site may be rendered unhealthy by their proximity, 
whereas a malarious locality is rendered healthy by this means. 
When going to live in a country district, therefore, it is proper to 
drain all swampy ground near to where the house must be, to fill 
up all hollows, and clear the jungle or neighbouring wood of all 
vegetation which deposits its leaves freely, to leave nothing but 
shrubs or trees which can be lopped underneath to about 6 feet 
above the ground. The luxuriant growth of vegetation and its 
decay in the neighbourhood of residences in all tropical and 
subtropical climates is one of the chief items in the production 



THE AIR AND CLIMATE 403 

of unhealthy areas ; the miasma arises largely from decom- 
posing organic matter, and is always more abundant and powerful 
near the earth. 

The house should consist of two stories — at any rate, the 
sleeping apartments should not be lower than 8 or 10 feet above 
the ground. Sleeping upon the ground or near it must be 
avoided because of the danger from malaria ; elevation of the 
bedroom 8 or 10 feet will make it cooler, more conducive to 
sleep, and freer from mosquitoes, which do not so often visit an 
elevated and breezy room as they do apartments which are 
nearer the ground and are not so well ventilated. The ventilation 
of the house is exceedingly important, but this must be as free 
as possible from draught, which must also be guarded against by 
the use of screens, for it weakens the body and renders it a ready 
prey to disease ; nevertheless, a plentiful supply of fresh air 
must be obtained throughout the house. The ground floor of 
the house ought to be made impervious by cement, concrete, or 
plaster; and the walls thereof should not be made of sun-dried 
bricks, as the latter have sometimes been responsible for fever 
and death, but the house should be built of burnt-brick, stone, or 
wood. A veranda should be provided to each house, and there 
should be proper spouting to carry away the rain which falls 
upon the roof, lest the ground about the house become a 
quagmire or forms pools for the breeding of mosquitoes and 
malaria. It is better to have a fire in the rooms every day in 
a moist climate, whether required for warmth or not ; it keeps 
the rooms dry, and is an important aid to ventilation. A fire on 
the veranda at night is said to be a good protection against 
malaria. 

Bcsidence on a hill or on an elevated site removes one from the 
debilitating effects of the heat of lowlands, and places him in a 
healthier climate, which is important to those who have suffered 
from the effects of living in valleys or on the plains. The 
advantages of a hill climate are the elevation above the hot 
stratum of air which passes like a fiery furnace over the plains 
in the hot season, better sleep owing to cooler air, less intense 
forms of malaria, freedom from cholera in many districts, and 
the possibility of a greater amount of exercise, with a maximum 
of health and physical comfort. There are disadvantages, ^uch 

26—2^ 



404 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

as a greater degree of cold in the cold season, more fog and 
damp in the wet season, diphtheria, typhus, cholera, and plague 
in certain tropical climates. It is usually regarded that an 
elevation of 4,000 feet is a sufficient height for the residents 
of the plains to ascend in search of health in the tropical 
mountains ; here they have most of the advantages. Yellow 
fever does not ascend above 2,500 feet, but malaria is seen as 
high as 7,000 feet, as in the Himalayas, perhaps because of local 
peculiarities, as a swampy area or a loose and porous soil, which 
are liable to occur in hill districts. There are, however, admirable 
stations in the Himalayas, the Neilgherries, and hills in other 
tropical countries, where there is no fever and cholera never 
penetrates. A residence of three months in the hills during the 
hot season braces the system, lassitude disappears, calm sleep is 
obtained, and the individual escapes the effects of poison in the 
atmosphere at a lower region. 

Seaside or coast resorts are very useful as restoratives for those 
long resident in tropical regions, or who are suffering from diseases 
of the liver or spleen or dysentery, when sea-coast is preferable 
to mountain resorts. Here the heat is tempered by a sea-breeze, 
the nights are cool, and a tonic influence is brought about. It 
is better if the house is on a cliff, and one jutting into the sea is 
the best, at the base of which there is always water,- or, at any 
rate, clean sand or shingle at low tide. A neck of land may 
be chosen, but there should always be ocean in front, and the 
surrounding country should be well drained and free from marsh 
and jungle. 

FOOD. 

Food in relation to hot climates has already been discussed in 
the chapter on * Food for Adults ' {q.v.}. The pith of those recom- 
mendations is that somewhat less animal food and somewhat 
more carbohydrate, such as bread, oatmeal, and potatoes, should 
be taken than in the average or normal diet ; that plenty of green 
vegetables and fruit should be eaten ; that it is better not to eat 
a heavy meal in the middle of the day, nor to go to sleep 
immediately after a heavy meal. Dinner is better eaten after 
the work of the day is over. We may, however, venture to dilate 
upon this a little more. The individual makes a voyage, perhaps 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 405 

of some weeks' duration, on a vessel upon which an abundance 
of food and but Httle exercise can be taken ; he eats well because 
the sea air gives him a supernormal appetite, and he arrives 
at his destination with his system overloaded, and perhaps in 
the hot season — if so, he is almost certain to have an attack of 
bilious diarrhoea, congestion of the liver, a crop of boils, or the 
prickly heat. Bilious diarrhoea is Nature's way to unload the 
system of undesirable material, but it may pass into the more 
serious forms of diarrhoea or dysentery, or, if the congested liver 
is neglected, it may become acutely inflamed, or terminate in 
liver abscess or chronic liver trouble. Such evils threaten all 
newcomers during the first few months, during which period 
a healthy plethoric person will do well to abstain from all 
stimulants, and adopt a dietary in which vegetables and fruit 
are prominent items and animal food forms a smaller part than 
usual ; for if the evil effects of alcohol or the habitual use of hot 
and highly- spiced dishes be added to the excitement of the 
system which is due to the change of climate, it may safely 
be asserted that the liver will become seriously damaged and the 
health and comfort destroyed. After a short residence, complete 
abstinence from alcohol is not absolutely recommended — indeed, 
there are many people to whom complete abstinence is as pre- 
judicial as the opposite — although it is known to all large 
employers of men, in hot countries especially, that most work 
is to be got out of those who never drink at all or are exceedingly 
abstemious ; whereas much drink, besides affecting the stomach 
and liver much more than it does in temperate regions, causes 
headache, mental irritability, and inability to bear fatigue, and 
perhaps liability to sunstroke and even malaria. 

During residence in foreign countries, campaigns by land or 
sea, it is important that fresh food should be given out as long 
as possible. There is, however, sometimes a shortage of the 
customary kinds of food, and resort is then had to dried or salted 
or tinned meat, meat biscuits, preserved vegetables, concentrated 
foods, water-free foods, and others, such as pemmican. This, 
however, is not quite as it should be : fresh food is extremely 
necessary because of the great tendency to angemia, scurvy, skin 
diseases, disease of the liver and stomach, and cachexia loci. 
There are many native animals and vegetables quite as suitable 



406 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

for food as those to which the new resident has been previously 
accustomed, and it is from these that he must draw his supphes 
of fresh food. 

The domestic animals, cattle, sheep, goats, pige, and poultry, 
are bred in most places where the white man has long been 
domiciled, but there are many regions where fresh meat of the 
ordinary kinds is not obtainable. The importance of fresh food 
is, however, so great that hunting, shooting, and fishing are sports 
which are strongly recommended, not only for exercise, but from 
the point of view of maintaining health through the food by 
obtaining it in a perfectly fresh condition. In Africa, for instance, 
there is an abundance of animals which serve for fresh food for 
man, and none need really live long upon dried or salted meat if 
only time and ammunition may be had. Antelope is equal to 
venison ; hippopotamus flesh resembles pork, and is said to be 
excellent ; giraffe is like young beef or veal ; quagga and zebra 
are also similar to beef ; and there is an abundance of fish in the 
streams. It may therefore be of interest if some notes are here 
added upon the geographical distribution of certain animals or 
groups of animals and vegetables suitable for food. 

Bovine animals, or oxen, are cultivated in most places where 
civilized man has been long domiciled, many breeds having been 
imported from Europe, and native varieties exist in a large 
number of places. Special forms should, however, be mentioned, 
as the buffalo or bison of America, two species of buffalo in 
Africa (Cape buffalo), the arnee of India, the ghaurs or wild 
cattle, and the yak or wild oxen, of the high plateaus of Thibet, 
the Himalayas, and extending southwards. Their flesh, though 
nutritious, is like coarse beef, and not very highly esteemed. 
The zebu is of the ox tribe; it is found extensively in India, China, 
North Africa, and other places. The flesh is highly esteemed, 
the hump being considered a great delicacy. The musk-ox of 
North America is a bovine animal, whose flesh is pleasant to eat, 
but smells of musk. The aoudad of North Africa is a bovine 
animal which inhabits the mountainous regions ; it is allied to 
sheep, and most nearly to the moufflon and argali. 

Sheep and goats are almost exclusively Old World animals, 
with only two native representatives in America — the argali or 
Eocky Mountain sheep, which is also found in Asia, and the 



GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 407 

musk-ox of Arctic North America. Sheep of various breeds are 
cultivated wherever civiUzed man exists. Wild ones are found 
in the mountains of Corsica, Sardinia, Crete, Greece, Asia Minor, 
Persia, Central and North-Eastern Asia, particular species being 
the moufflon in the European places just named, and the merino 
in Spain and other places of Southern Europe. Goats are found 
from Southern Europe or Spain to the Caucasus, whence they ■ 
extend through Armenia and Persia to the Himalayas and China. 
The waryato of the Neilgherries is a special variety. 

The Deer Family is widely extended. Stags are distributed 
over the Old and New World ; but Australia is entirely deficient, 
and Africa has only two species — the fallow deer and a stag. 
America has also only a very limited representation of the deer 
family. The stag, or red deer, extends throughout all Europe and 
Northern Asia; the fallow deer or dama in Europe, Asia, and 
West Africa ; the roebuck over most of Europe and parts of Asia 
as far as China ; the reindeer through Northern Europe and 
Asia ; the cariboo of North America is similar, but not identical ; 
the elk, varieties of which are moose-deer and alces, is about the size 
of a horse ; it extends through the colder parts of North America, 
Russia, Poland, Sweden, and Norway. Various kinds which 
bear local characters are the rusa, which is a species of deer in 
the forests of India and islands of the Malay Archipelago ; the 
sambur is similar to it, and occupies the forests and mountains of 
Northern India. The musk-deer also occurs in iVsia, and various 
small animals in the Asiatic islands bear the same name. South 
America has several species, and one extends from Canada to 
Mexico, besides which there is the Canadian stag or wapiti. 
The ibex, which resembles the deer, inhabits the Alpine peaks 
of Switzerland, the Apennines, the Pyrenees, Egypt, Syria, 
Abyssinia, and the Caucasus. 

The Antelopes are a large and numerous family, which are 
spread over a large part of the earth, especially in warm countries, 
and appear to be most numerous where the deer family is absent 
or scantily represented. Their flesh is considered to be quite 
equal to venison, and is eaten roast, boiled, or in soup. There 
are two chief species in Europe — -the chamois, which, however, 
extends from the Pyrenees to the mountains of the Caucasus ; 
and the saiga, in the hilly districts of Eastern Europe and Asiatic 



408 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

countries adjoining. In India there is the common antelope or 
sasin, besides the chikara and nylghau, which extend into China, 
Japan, Formosa, and the Malay Archipelago ; and there are two 
or three species on the Thibetan plateau. America has the 
prong-buck or cabrit, which, together with the Eocky Mountain 
sheep or argali, is threatened with extinction. They are particu- 
larly abundant in Africa, where numerous related families occur, 
and are known by the names of harte-beste, spring-bok, bush- 
bok, blue-buck, bles-bok, impoon, kob, kevel, koodoo, eland, gnu, 
gazelle, etc. 

The Camel tribe, including the llama, alpaca, vicuna, and 
guanaco, inhabits Central and Southern America and the West 
Indies and Africa. The alpaca (Alpaca jmco) is a native of the 
Andes, in Chili and Peru. It is about the size of a sheep, is closely 
allied to the llama, and, like it, has flesh which is wholesome and 
agreeable. 

Horse-flesh is everywhere used for food in times of scarcity, and 
regularly by some people ; also the varieties zebra and quagga. 

The Hog Family. — Ordinary swine are bred in many places, 
and native varieties occur in India, Africa, etc. The true swine 
or common hog extends over temperate Europe and Asia. The 
Indian horned-hog or babyrussa is not found in the continents of 
Asia or Africa, but in the islands of the Indian Archipelago. 
The wart-hog and the river-hog are subgenera found in North 
and South Africa, in Java, and Celebes ; and several other species 
extending from Japan to Africa have well-favoured flesh which 
is eaten for food. The peccary is a small hog-like animal of 
South America, having flesh which is similar to pork. 

Rhinoceros, of which there are five species in Cape Colony, 
South Africa, Bengal, and a considerable part of Asia, have flesh 
which is not despised for food ; and there are two species of 
hippopotamus in Africa, and a third in Madagascar, whose flesh 
is eaten with great relish and is compared to pork. 

The Badger is a plantigrade animal of Central Europe and Asia 
as far as China, Hong-Kong, and Japan, and also in America. It 
is as big as a fair-sized dog. Its flesh is eaten as pork and makes 
good bacon. Raccoon (Procyon lotor) is another plantigrade 
animal, about the size of a fox, which lives in America from 
Canada to the tropics, and its flesh is palatable food. The aswall 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 409 

or sloth-bear (Ursus lahiatus) of the mountains of India is also 
related, and has flesh which is in high favour as food. 

Hares and Rabbits are almost exclusively confined to North 
America, North Africa, and Eur-Asia; they extend northv^ards 
to the Arctic regions. Babbits were introduced into Australia, 
and are now very prevalent. In Central and South America and 
the West Indies they are replaced by other rodents such as the 
agouti, cavy, capybara, paca, and coypou. The coypou is a rodent 
2 or 3 feet long, which lives in Chili. It is chiefly valued for its 
fur. There are many species of cavies or guinea-pigs in South 
America — as the agouti or yellow cavy, which is about the size 
of a rabbit; and the paca, which is about as big as a dog, fat, and 
highly esteemed for food. The capybara is the largest cavy, and 
is about 3 feet long. The flesh of all these animals is white, well 
flavoured, and much thought of for food. The animals are pursued 
as game. Porcupines are sometimes eaten in Italy, Africa, Asia, 
and America. Rats are also consumed, and the bandicoot {Mus 
giganteus), the largest known rat, has delicate flesh, which 
resembles pork, and is a favourite article of diet among the 
natives of India and Ceylon, where they are abundant. Hedge- 
hogs are also eaten. They are found in most of Europe, the 
greater part of Africa, Asia, and the Malay Archipelago. 

Amongst edentata the armadillo is esteemed good food in 
Central and Southern America, and the aard-vark or earth-pig in 
South Africa. The marsupials, including the kangaroo, kangaroo- 
rat, and opossum, are eaten in Australia and New Guinea. Kan- 
garoo eats like venison, but is sometimes very tough; kangaroo-rat 
like rabbit or hare ; and they are used in making soup, which is 
highly nourishing and stimulating. The opossum is a foetid 
animal, but its flesh is nutritious and pleasant. The true opossum 
only exists in America, but there is a very similar animal which 
is called by that name in Australia. Amongst oceanic mammalia, 
the porpoise, boiled, roasted, or fried, has long been used by sailors, 
when they have been for a long time on salted meat ; it is found 
in the North Atlantic Ocean. Dugong is another mammal of the 
Indian seas whose flesh is eaten ; it is tender, and considered to 
be not unlike beef. Manatee or sea-cow, which lives on the 
American and African coasts, is similar, the flesh being of a 
flavour between veal and pork. 



410 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The eggs and flesh of birds are used for food all over the world. 
The domestic fowls are bred in nearly every habitable region, as 
well as turkeys, guinea-fowl, pea- fowl, and pigeons. The jungle 
fowl of India, of which numerous species are abundant through- 
out the peninsula, is probably the original of the domestic fowl. 
Turkeys and bustards or wild turkeys occur in every continent, 
and many of the West Indian and Pacific islands. Guinea-fowls are 
natives of Africa, but are cultivated or found wild in many other 
places. Peacock or pea-fowls are found throughout Southern 
Asia from the Himalayas to Ceylon, and as far east as China, 
and they are cultivated in many places. Pheasants, natives of 
Southern Asia, are found in all temperate and most warm regions 
of the Old World ; there are many species in warm climates, such as 
the argus, impeyan, and tragapan. Partridges exist in Europe, 
North Africa, and West Asia; grouse in Northern Europe and Asia, 
and there are many species in North America. The ptarmigan 
exists in Northern Europe and America, and in Arctic regions. 
Wood-grouse, called capercailzie in Scotland, one of the largest 
gallinaceous birds, is found in North Britain, Norway, Sweden, and 
North Europe generally. Quails are found in nearly every part 
of the globe. Tinamou, birds of South America, vary in size from 
a quail to a pheasant, and have white, delicate flesh, pleasant to eat. 
The attagas of Central Asia resembles a pheasant, but is allied to 
grouse and partridges. The prairie-hen of America is a grouse, 
much esteemed for food. The woodcock is found in all parts 
of Europe, Asia, and America. The curassow of America is 
related to the turkey, and the mound-builders or brush-turkeys, 
which are similar, are found in Australia and the Pacific islands. 
Many varieties of the domestic ducks and geese are cultivated in 
numerous places, and wild water-fowl are abundant in many 
places. Grebe, or the water-fowl, has a very wide distribution ; 
the water-rail or marsh-hen is found in Europe, America, and 
West Indies. Coot is the name of a water-fowl common in 
India, China, Japan, America, and South Europe. Teal is a 
name applied to several small ducks, common to Europe and 
North America. The mallard or wild duck (Anas bosckus) is 
abundant in Europe, Asia, and America; and the widgeon (J\Iarcca 
yenelope) in Europe and America, being very plentiful in Carolina. 
The heron or still-bird is highly prized for food by some people, 



GEOGRAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 411 

and is found in temperate and warm regions of Europe, America, 
and Australia. Sea-birds, sucli as the sriag or cormorant, Mother 
Carey's chickens, the scoter, eider, garrot, scaup, and penguin, 
besides others, are eaten, and are to be preferred to a continuance 
of salt or dried meat. 

Turtles and tortoises of many varieties are very abundant in 
the seas and shores of all warm climates, but rapidly diminish as 
we pass into the north or south temperate zones ; their flesh and 
eggs are excellent food. The green turtle (Chelonia imjclas vel 
viridis) is the one most highly esteemed as an article of food ; it 
is considered a luxury in Europe. It is found over a considerable 
range, but is very rarely discovered on English or Mediterranean 
coasts. Terrapins are tortoises of warm, temperate, and tropical 
regions ; many species in America are consumed as food. By far 
the greatest number of lizards are confined to the warm regions 
of the earth ; of these, the iguana, of tropical America, Mexico, 
and the West Indies, is considered a delicate article of food ; the 
agama is its representative in Africa, Asia, the Indian Archipelago, 
and parts of Australia, and, like the former, is eaten by many 
people. The amblyrrynchus is the only marine lizard known to 
exist, and is found on the coasts of Galapogos Island ; it is 3 or 4 
feet long, and its flesh is highly esteemed for food. 

The most broadly diffused amphibian which is consumed by 
man is the green or edible frog (Bana esculenta) ; it extends from 
England to Scandinavia, and from Northern Africa through 
Central Asia to China and Japan. In America, the axolotl, a 
batrachian of the Mexican lakes, is considered a great luxury. 

Fresh-water fish is usually abundant wherever there are rivers 
and lakes, and is particularly so in the northern hemisphere ; 
but it is not so plentiful in Africa and Australia, where only 
about fifty fresh-water species are known, as in the other 
continents. Salmon is both a marine and fresh-water fish, and is 
found chiefly in the northern portions of Europe, Asia, and 
America ; the white-fish of the North American lakes (Corcgonus 
sa2jidus) is highly esteemed, and belongs to the salmon family 
(the name, however, is commonly applied in America to other 
'ij fish, such as whiting and haddock, which do not belong to the 
species). Salmon-trout ranks next to salmon in form and colour, 
and occupies the same regions ; trout are found in the rivers and 



412 . FOOD AND HYGIENE 

lakes of Europe, America, and Asia ; various species of char in 
England and Northern Europe ; and grayling in clear, rapid 
streams of the same area. The chromides and wrasses, which 
are allied, are found in the fresh waters of all hot countries ; they 
are good eating, especially a species of the chromides found in the 
Nile. The pikes and perches are found in all temperate parts of 
Europe. The carp family includes carp, roach, tench, bream, 
loach, dace, bleak, barbel, and gudgeon, which are found in all 
European rivers and lakes, and in many warm regions. The 
sturgeon and sterlet exist in the large rivers of Europe. 

The salmon family are found in most lakes and streams of 
elevated regions up to the line of perpetual snow both in Europe 
and Asia, and probably in all regions of the earth. Loach is 
found in the Himalayas and Andes at about 14,000 feet. 
Identical species of salmon, perch, burbot, and pike inhabit alike 
the waters of Europe and east of North America ; perch exists 
in the Ganges and other rivers of East India and in the waters of 
New Zealand and Australia ; and trout in the streams of Falkland, 
Tasmania, New Zealand, and South America. 

Of shore and sea fishes, the cod fish family, including cod, 
hake, haddock, whiting ; the mackerel family, including mackerel, 
tunny, ling, dory, mullet ; the herring family — herring, shad, 
sprat, sardine, pilchard ; and the flat fishes — sole, plaice, dab, 
brill, turbot, halibut, flounder — all occupy the northern temperate 
seas, and are fairly identical in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. 
On the British, Western European, and American east coasts there 
are, besides others, cod, hake, ling, bass, sea-perch, bull-head, 
herring, smelt, ray, conger ; and, more rarely, the mullet, bream, 
and John Dory. The flat fishes begin in the northern regions, 
but increase in number in the Mediterranean and warmer seas ; 
the codfish family diminishes correspondingly. There is a re- 
markable correspondence between the fishes of the Mediterranean 
shores and those of Japan and the eastern shores of Asia. In 
the south temperate zone, also, there is a close relationship 
between the fishes of that region and those of the north 
temperate zone, although there are very distinct species in 
the intermediate regions. The cod fish family is absent from 
Australian waters, but is represented by six species around New 
Zealand. In the equatorial regions the flat fish and herring 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 413 

families are among the chief genera represented, but there are 
others peculiar to the region. Among the sea fishes the cod 
family are very important, especially in the seas of the northern 
hemisphere. The herring family extends through the equatorial 
region : herrings extend from Kamtschatka in the north to 
Central America ; sprats abound in the North Atlantic and 
Mediterranean ; sardines in the Mediterranean and warm 
temperate regions ; anchovies also in the Mediterranean and all 
tropical seas. The mackerel family are in all European seas, and 
some of them in the Mediterranean and warmer seas. The fiat 
fishes extend from the North Atlantic and Baltic Seas, increasing 
towards the equator, but the cod family diminishes as they 
increase. The fishes of the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific basins 
agree in similarity of genera and species. There are in nearly 
all regions varieties and species of fish which have a local habita- 
tion and reputation. Such are the white-fish (Coregonus) of 
America, which is esteemed by many to be the finest of all fishes ; 
namaycush, of the salmon family, which is in the great lakes 
and rivers of America, and weighs 20 to 40 pounds, is much 
esteemed; candle-fish, also of the Salmonidae, is rich in fat, and lives 
in shoals off North-West America ; the black-fish or tantag, which 
weighs 12 or 14 pounds, is found off the New England coast and 
in Australia ; the caplin is a smaller fish of the Salmonidae, 
6 or 7 inches long, like a smelt in form and colour, but it is 
of delicate flavour, and is found off North America and in all cold 
regions. Wolf-fish is abundant in northern countries, as Norway 
and Iceland, and is largely eaten; and mango-fish is found in 
the rivers of India, and is esteemed a great delicacy in April 
and May. 

Lobster, crayfish, crabs, and other Crustacea are found in 
numbers over a large area from Norway to the tropics, some 
of them being particularly abundant in the warm seas. Caramote 
is a species of large shrimp, caught in great numbers in the 
Mediterranean, and salted for exportation. Shell-fish (Mollusca) 
also extend over the greater part of the earth. Some of them 
have great renown for their delicacy and nutritiveness — oysters, 
mussels, whelks, and especially clam, which is much used for 
making a nutritive and stimulating soup. The common clam of 
the United States is My a arenaria ; the giant clam is Tridacna 



414 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

gigas. The edible snail (Helix pomatia), also called escargot, 
has a high reputation in France and Southern Europe for its 
nutritive qualities, and it contains a large amount of nitrogenous 
matters, which give it a deservedly high rank. Several of the 
Echimodernata are also eaten, and hold a high place among the 
luxuries of various people. The trepang or sea-cucumbers, which 
are of this order, are much sought after by the Chinese for food. 
They are dried in the sun and used for ma,king soup. They are 
obtained chiefly from the Indian Ocean, the islands of the Malay 
Archipelago, Polynesia, and Australia. 

Grouping various places together according to climate, we find — 
{a) In Europe and Asia, as far as India — ^the Eur-Asian region 
— the domestic animals are all cultivated. In most districts 
varieties of cattle, sheep, goats, and pig are obtainable for food. 
The deer family are fairly abundant, and comprise the roebuck, 
stag, the fallow deer, and various others, which extend from 
South Europe to Asia and China. The stag ranges over nearly 
all Europe, and eastward in Asia as far as Lake Baikal and the 
river Lena. Goats are found from Spain to the Caucasus, whence 
they pass through Armenia and Persia to the Himalayas and 
China. The waryato of the Neilgherries is a special kind. The 
moufflon of the Mediterranean islands and mountains of Greece 
and Persia is a kind of sheep. Other sheep are found wild in the 
mountains of Corsica, Crete, Sardinia, Asia Minor, Persia, and 
Central and North-Eastern Asia. The merino is found in Spain. 
Wild cattle are found in many places, as the ghaurs, arnee, and 
Zebu of India and Yak of the Thibetan plateau. The aurochs or 
bison is now only found in Lithuania. The antelopes are not so 
abundant as deer, but the chamois extends from the Pyrenees to the 
Caucasus and the Saiga through Eussia and Western Asia. There 
are also other goat-like forms which extend from the Eastern 
Himalayas to China and Japan. The hog extends over Europe 
and Asia, and various local varieties exist. The badger is found 
throughout Central Europe and Asia, as far as China and Japan. 
The birds are mostly those found in Europe — domestic fowls, 
turkeys, pigeons, pheasants, partridges, grouse, quail, pea-fowl, 
jungle fowl. China is properly the home of the pheasants, and 
in Japan the birds are similar to the European. 

(6) The Oriental realm includes Southern India, Southern 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 415 

China, Burmah, Siam, Annam, Formosa, the Malay Archipelago, 
Ceylon, Sumatra, Java, Borneo, the Philippines, New Guinea, 
and numerous smaller islands. Oxen are here represented 
by the Indian bulfalo, which as a domestic animal ranges as far 
as Southern Europe ; wild cattle, such as the ghaurs and gayal, 
which extend from Java to the Indian peninsula, and the 
zebu or sacred bull. Sheep are entirely v^anting, except such 
as have been introduced by man. Goats have only one 
native representative, the waryato. Antelopes are not very 
numerous. They comprise the true antelope, the gazelle, nylghau, 
chikara, and two or three others. Their place is largely taken 
by deer, of which there are twenty species, varying in size from 
the diminutive muntjac to the giant rusa. Badgers are common, 
and, together with the aswail or sloth-bear, are among the animals 
consumed for food ; and so is the bandicoot, the largest existing 
rat, which is eaten in India and Ceylon. Birds of the Gallinacese 
— domestic fowl, turkey, pheasant, partridge, pea-fowl — are 
very abundant. This is the habitat of the jungle-fowl, from 
one of whose numerous species the ordinary domestic poultry 
have descended. Pheasants are also naturally largely repre- 
sented ; and peacock or pea-fowl is found throughout the region, 
from Ceylon to the Himalayas and east to China, besides the 
argus, impeyan, tragapan, and others of the pheasant species. 
The brush-turkeys or mound-builders, related to the American 
curassows, are seen in Borneo, the Philippine and other islands. 

(c) Africa, including Madagascar and neighbouring small islands 
of the tropics. The Cape buffalo is the only natural representa- 
tive of the ox family ; the aoudad is, however, allied to the oxen, 
and moufflon to the sheep — both are found in North Africa. Deer, 
sheep, and goats, in their natural condition, are entirely absent ; 
the only deer-like animals are the chevrotain of Sahara and the 
ibex in Abyssinia, Antelopes are very abundant, and include 
many species, which we may class as follow^s : (1) Desert ante- 
lopes, as the gazelle ; (2) bush antelopes, as the koodoo, bush-bok, 
and water-buck ; (3) rock antelopes, as the klip-springer ; (4) 
antelopes of the plains, as harte-beste, spring-bok, gnu, gems-bok, 
and bles-bok. Native horses are represented by the quagga and 
zebra. Swine are only represented by the wart-hog and horned- 
hog, or babyrussa ; but the hippopotam,us is closely related to 



416 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the SuidoB, and is often eaten for pork ; and there are five species 
of rhinoceros. The ordinary pig is bred, and does very well on 
the hills. The agama is a lizard eaten for food, and represents 
the iguana of South America. There is an abundance of birds 
upon the continent ; but the Gallinaeeae, which are most suitable 
for food, are badly represented. Grouse is represented by the 
Francolin, and pheasant by the guinea-fowl — there are no others. 
The nkuku is an African fowl, of small size, but most delicate. 
The ordinary domestic fowls, pigeons, ducks, and guinea-fowls, 
are propagated. Eiver and lake fish are plentiful at certain 
seasons, about fifty species of the carp family being present, and 
others peculiar to the region. 

(d) The animals of North America include deer, reindeer, 
moose or elk, and the musk-ox in the north ; the bison or buffalo, 
one of the mountains, another of the plains ; the cabrit or prong- 
buck of the western plains, and the argali or Eocky Mountain 
sheep, both threatened with extinction. Goats and sheep 
in their normal condition are absent, except for the bighorn or 
Eocky Mountain sheep. The Canadian stag or wapiti extends as 
far as Mexico, and the cariboo of the north is allied to the rein- 
deer. In this favoured region, however, an abundance of oxen, 
sheep, and other animals necessary to supply man with meat, 
readily thrive. Hares are found, but as we proceed to the south 
they are replaced by cavies. Birds and fish are abundant in the 
forests, woods, rivers, and lakes, as well as on the extensive coast. 

(e) In South America, Central America, and the West Indies 
the cattle and sheep are prolific, and are bred in sufficient 
abundance to supply the wants of man. Swine are only repre- 
sented by the peccary ; sheep, goats, and oxen are entirely 
absent from the native inhabitants of the country ; deer are 
found in limited numbers from Mexico to Patagonia ; camels are 
represented by the llama, alpaca, vicuna, and guanaco, all of 
which have ))een eaten for food ; hares and rabbits are absent, 
but their place is abundantly taken by the cavies, agoutis, paca, 
coypou, and capybara, which vary in size from a hare to a large 
dog ; the raccoon, an animal of the size of a fox and belonging to 
the bear family, is eaten ; the iguana, a lizard, is considered a 
delicacy ; and even the armadillo, an edentate animal, forms a 
dainty dish. Game birds are not very numerous, the curassows 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 417 

and guans, which are the largest, taking the place of the Old 
World grouse and pheasant. Fresh - water fishes are very 
numerous. 

(/) Australia and Polynesia, including the Continent of Aus- 
tralia, New Zealand, Tasmania, and the Polynesian Archipelago. 
The greater portion of the Australian mainland consists of a 
tableland of moderate elevation, characterized by a harsh and 
dry climate and absence of water ; hence vegetable growth, suit- 
able for animals in their native condition, is scanty during a 
great portion of the year, and consequently unfit for the develop- 
ment of vigorous animal life apart from the care and oversight of 
man. Cattle and sheep are bred there in large abundance, 
being superintended by man's watchful care, and rabbits now 
swarm in nearly every region ; but nearly all the Old World 
animals are conspicuous by their absence, excepting where the 
ingenuity of man has been successful in transportin,'::^ and rearing 
them. There is a solitary species or two of hog, and the chgeropus, 
a pig-footed animal which is similar in appearance to the moose- 
deer of the Oriental region. Kangaroo and kangaroo-rats are the 
most important mammals, and both are eaten, the former for 
venison, the latter for hare. Amongst birds there are few native 
representatives of the Gallinaceae. The jungle-fowl of Australia, 
or mound-builder, is the Megapodius tumulus, and is similar to a 
turkey. Bustards or wild turkeys are similar. Pheasant is re- 
presented by the lyre-bird, and there are wild ducks, geese, and 
quails. More than forty species of pigeons are seen, and they 
are abundant, Australia and New Guinea being considered their 
native habitat. Fish is abundant in the sea and rivers, as bream, 
mullet, mackerel, grayling, and whiting. Less than forty species 
of fresh-water fish are known ; but some of them belong to the 
Salmonidae — salmon and trout. The codfish family is absent 
from Australian waters, but about six species are found in those 
of New Zealand. The flat fishes are abundant in the waters of 
the tropical islands. In the Polynesian realm the mammalia are 
the same, and the birds which are absent from Australia are also 
absent here ; but there are plenty of pigeons, crows, cuckoos, 
kingfishers, and herons. 

Vegetables, such as are eaten as ' greens,' are not abundant in 
tropical regions ; but being fully aware of the necessity for green 

27 



418 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

vegetables, especially by the non-native residents of hot countries, 
it is important that the best use be made of those which are at 
their disposal. Crambe is a kind of cabbage (Cruciferae) growing 
in Asia and Southern Europe. One of its species is the original 
of seakale. The cabbage-palm and the head of the tree fern are 
used as cabbage in Australia. The unopened leaf-bud is boiled 
and eaten in the West Indies, but its removal destroys the tree. 
Burdock is a weed in many parts of the world, but its young 
leaves and shoots (called gobo) are boiled and eaten as a green 
vegetable in Japan, and the whole plant is boiled in soup. The 
stalks and petioles of tacca are boiled as a vegetable in China, 
Indo-China, and adjoining countries. The leaves of Tetragonia 
expansa are called spinach in New Zealand, and used as such. 
In Africa the plant called mtake is used as spinach. Tare leaves 
are eaten in the same manner in the Pacific Islands, and the 
water-shields in India, Australia, and America. Onions may be 
grown in all parts of the world, from the tropics to the coldest 
verge of the temperate zone, and form a suitable vegetable, having 
undoubted antiscorbutic powers. Varieties of lettuce are native 
in nearly all parts of the globe. Tomatoes grow in all warm 
districts. Ehubarb is valuable ; stalks and leaves are both used. 
It grows in Europe, Eussia, Turkey, Northern India, and Central 
Asia generally. Vegetable marrow, pumpkin, squash, and other 
members of the gourd family, are grown in all warm countries 
and elsewhere under the care of man. The fruit of papaw is 
boiled and eaten with meat, as other vegetables, in Africa and 
India. Plantains and green bananas boiled or roasted in ashes, 
and green Indian corn boiled in milk or roasted in ashes, are 
eaten as a vegetable. Cardoons have a succulent stalk and leaf, 
which is blanched and eaten like celery in all Mediterranean 
countries. Skirret, or water-parsnip, is a tuberous root, eaten 
with pepper and salt, after being half boiled and half roasted, in 
Southern Europe and all Oriental countries. The tuberous roots 
of tare are boiled in several waters and eaten like potatoes in the 
Pacific Islands. Tacca has also a tuberous root, which is cooked 
and eaten in the same manner in India, China, Cochin-China, and 
the Malay Archipelago. The tubers of the lotus are used as a 
culinary vegetable in China. Yams, sweet potatoes, and manioc or 
cassava root, are all eaten like potatoes wherever they grow. 



\ 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 419 

Cassava root, however, must be boiled in several waters to remove 
the juice, which is unpleasant and injurious. The Arracacha 
esculcnta of South America has a tuberous root, which is boiled 
and eaten like potatoes. It is very proliiic and a staple food. 

Amongst materials used as substitutes for bread, besides the 
tuberous roots mentioned, are durra, millet, buckwheat, and, of 
course, the cereals and pulses. Canna and cassava root are used 
as potatoes, but cassava, tapioca, and arrowroot are prepared 
from them. A nutritious farinaceous material is obtained from 
taro roots, called poi, in the Pacific Islands. The ground-nuts — 
e.g., apios tuherosa, leguminous plants bearing tubers on their 
underground shoots — are eaten like potatoes, and their meal is 
used for cakes, etc., in the West Indies, China, South America, and 
France. Chestnuts are roasted and eaten in Spain, Italy, and 
other parts of Europe and Asia. The araucaria, a coniferous tree 
of South America and the Pacific Islands, bears large cones, each 
scale of which contains a large seed, which are roasted and 
eaten in Chili. The bread-nut of the West Indies is roasted and 
eaten as bread; and the oblong bread-fruit, the Jack-tree of 
tropical Asia, contains seeds like chestnuts, which are roasted 
and eaten. 

Fruit. — If green vegetables of the orders usually consumed as 
' greens ' in Europe are scarce in hot climates, the deficiency is 
largely made up by the abundance of fruit, which may be eaten 
freely, providing a due proportion of meat and carbohydrate 
material are also taken in other ways. Oranges grow in all warm 
countries of Southern Europe, Asia, Africa, America, and the 
islands of warm latitudes. There are many varieties, equally 
good, but some are more juicy and sweeter. There are certain 
other fruits allied to them, as the shaddock (Citrus decumana), a 
large species of orange, with pale yellow skin and reddish pulp, 
in China, Japan, and the West Indies. The wampee, a fruit of the 
size of a pigeon's egg, which grows in bunches on a tree in China 
and the islands of the Indian Archipelago, also belongs to the 
orange family. Lemons, citrons, limes, and other fruit of the 
Aurantiaceae, grow in the same districts as oranges. The akee fruit 
{Blighia sainda), of the West Indies and South America, is an oblong 
orange-coloured fruit, containing seeds in a juicy pulp, which is 
very grateful to the palate and highly esteemed. The star-apple 

27—2 



420 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of the West Indies and tropical America is Ghrysophyllum cainito 
and other species of the Chrysophyllum ; it is as big as an apple, 
divided into sections or compartments, each of which contains a 
black seed surrounded by a gelatinous pulp. Olives grow in 
Southern Europe, Turkey, the Greek islands, Asia Minor, China, 
Japan, etc. The tomato, though a native of South America, will 
grow everywhere if the sun is warm enough to ripen the fruit. 
The gourd family is important in providing the human race 
with vegetables and fruit of no high nutritive value, which, 
however, contain a good deal of sugar and salts, and an 
abundant, agreeable juice. Melon, or Gucumis mclo, is grown in 
Southern Europe, the countries of the Mediterranean, Egypt, 
Persia, and nearly all warm climates. The water-melon, or 
Citrullis cucuviis, grows in most hot and dry regions, especially 
such as have a warm sandy soil, as Egypt, India, China, Japan, 
Malay Archipelago, West Indies, and America. It is one of the 
chief sources of meat and drink during some months of each year 
for a large portion of the population of North Africa. The cala- 
bash, baobab, or sour-gourd of North Africa, and another sour- 
gourd in Australia, are large fruit, the pulp of which is acid but 
pleasant. The juice mixed with sugar makes an agreeable 
beverage. The anona are species of plants growing in the East and 
West Indies and South America which yield agreeable fruit : as 
the sweet and luscious sweet-sop ; the slightly acid sour-sop ; the 
custard-apple or cherymoya, with its thick and luscious pulp ; 
and the mimusops, also called bully or bullet fruit, which grow 
in the tropical regions of both hemispheres, but especially in 
Ceylon and British Guiana ; the fruit is delicious and of the 
size of a cherry. Many cacti have fleshy, succulent stems, which 
yield a slightly acid, watery, or a sweetish milky juice, which is 
refreshing, and is used as a beverage. Their fruit is also eaten. 
The prickly pear or opuntia is the fruit of a cactus having a 
pleasant subacid taste ; it is eaten wherever it grows, as in Southern 
Europe, Asia, the West Indies, and South America. The straw- 
berry pear of the West Indies is the fruit of another cactus, and 
is eaten. Besides the palm upon which dates are grown, there 
are others which bear eatable fruit, as the dorn-palm of Northern 
and Central Africa, where it forms forests. This tree bears a fruit 
of about the size of an apple, having a fibrous, mealy rind which 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 421 

tastes like ginger-bread. Tiie alligator pear of the West Indies 
{Persea gratissima) is a big fruit, from 1 to 2 pounds in weigiit, 
having a firm and marrow -like pulp, which is highly esteemed. 
It is also called the avocado. The cream-fruit of Sierra Leone is 
the produce of an apocynaceous plant, and has an abundant 
creamy juice, for which it is eaten. The hog-plum (Sj^ondias 
dulcis, N.O. Anacardiaceae) is a fruit growing in the Society 
Islands, which is compared to the pine-apple. Mangosteen is 
a delicious and wholesome fruit of the size of an orange 
{Garcinia mangostana, N.O. Guttiferae), in the East Indies 
and Malay Archipelago. Carambola {AverrJioa caramhola) is an 
East Indian fruit of the size of an egg, and of agreeable acid 
flavour ; it is used for jam, tarts, sherbet, and wine. Mango, the 
fruit of the mango-tree {Mangifera indicana, N.O. Anacardiaceae), 
grows freely in Asia and other tropical countries. The fruit is 
luscious, somewhat acid, but highly esteemed for dessert. It 
contains a large kernel, which is very nutritious, and has been 
used for food in times of scarcity. Chutney is an East Indian 
condiment made from ripe mangoes, raisins, lemon juice, sour 
herbs, and cayenne, boiled and pounded together. Mangroves 
{Rhizoplwra mangle) are a sweet, edible fruit of the East and 
West Indies and other tropical countries. Wine is made from 
the juice. In the West Indies and Brazil the calaba-tree yields 
an agreeable green fruit, and the Barbadoes cherry is a tart, 
fleshy fruit, but pleasant to eat. Boldoa fruit, eaten in Chih, is 
pulpy and juicy. The abelmosk is the mucilaginous fruit of an 
evergreen shrub growing in tropical xlmerica, the West Indies, and 
Asia. It is used in pickles and soup. The durian or durio is a 
peculiar fruit of fcetid odour, but having such a delicious flavour 
as to place it in the fore-rank of tropical fruit. It is the size of 
a human head, and a native of the islands of the Indian Pacific 
Ocean and Malay Archipelago. 

Nuts of various kinds, as the coco-nut and Brazil-nut, occur 
in most parts of the earth. Various tubers, such as the ground- 
nut and various species of Coleus and Plectranthus, which much 
resemble potatoes, are cultivated in the tropics. Besides manioc 
and cassava, there are species of yam and sweet potato grown in 
many places. Various starches obtained from roots and fruit are 
freely used. Ling in China and singhara in India and other 



422 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Eastern countries, which consist of the powdered kernels of water- 
chestnut (Trcqya bisinnosa and varieties, N.O. Onagraceaa), are 
examples. The meal is better than millet as a food, being richer 
in flesh forming and energy-producing material. Dr. Hooper 
gives the following composition of water-chestnut : Water, 4*1 per 
cent. ; proteid, 14-3 ; fat, 0-97 ; carbohydrate, 78-1 ; fibre, 3-6 ; 
ash, 4-6. Balland gives the following : 





Water. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


Cellulose 


Coleus dazo 


. 77-3 


1-72 


0-54 


18-2 


1-3 


Flcciranthus ternatus . 


. 71-3 


2-74 


0-39 


22-6 


1-26 



1-27 

In some places the unripe bread-fruit {Artocarpiis incisa) is 
ground into flour; and in Tahiti the map^ is a coarse starch 
obtained from Inocaiyus edulis. In French Guinea and other 
parts of Africa a flour called netd is obtained from the pulp of the 
fruit Parkia biglobosa. Caryot and talipot are an inferior kind of 
starch from Caryota urens and CorypJia uvibraculipera respec- 
tively. In Polynesia and Oceania, various tubers are used for their 
starch — e.g., ap6 is the flour obtained in Tahiti from the rhizomes 
of Arum macrorhizwn, which is cultivated like the yam : poi is 
a meal obtained from taro or yam [Caladimn escnlentum), the tubers 
of which are much appreciated in Polynesia and other tropical 
countries ; in Madagascar tavola is obtained from a kind of yam 
{Tacca pinnatifida) ; and in Japan conophallus, the tubers of 
AinorpJiophallus, closely related to yam, are ground into flour. "^ 

Drink can be made from lemons, oranges, bananas, plantains, 
limes, citrons, pine-apples, and very many kinds of fruit. In 
Mexico pulque is made from the juice of the agave or American 
aloe, which is collected just when the flowering stem is ready to 
burst forth. It resembles cider, but has an odour of putrid meat. 
The juice of various cacti is used wherever they grow, and the 
fruit of the mangroves makes a light wine in the East and West 
Indies. The fruit of carambola is used to make sherbet in the 
East Indies, and the juice of the ordinary sour-gourd or cala- 
bash of North Africa makes a pleasant beverage. Various palms 
yield a plentiful sap or juice from the stem and fruit, which, 
being fermented, makes a sweet vinous beverage — e.g., Mauritia 
vinifera, or South American palm. The sap of the palmyra is 
drunk in its natural condition in India and Ceylon, or fermented 
to make palm-wine. The milk of the coconut and the sap or 



GEOGEAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION 423 

juice of the tree, grown in all tropical countries, makes a vinous 
beverage and a spirit called toddy. The cow-tree of South 
America yields an abundant juice which has the appearance of 
milk, is very nutritious, and is used for food. Another milk-tree 
in the West Indies is the Taberna montana utilis. Various 
beverages made from the milk of animals have been referred to, 
especially koumiss (g.y.), prepared by fermentation of milk, and 
used largely by Asiatic races. Another is leban, an Arabian 
beverage, consisting of coagulated sour milk diluted with water ; 
keffir is another beverage prepared from the milk of cow, ass, 
or goat, and prepared in a similar manner to koumiss. Besides 
the above, various fermented liquors are made from rice, millet, 
and other grains : tar-asum in China ; sake in Japan ; chong in 
Thibet ; ava in the South Sea Islands from ti-root ; chica or sora 
from maize or manioc in Peru ; and arrach in Ceylon from the 
juice of a palm-tree, or in India from the flowers of mnowha- 
tree, various palms, and grain.'' 

References: ^ 'The Medical Officer's Handbook,' E. Smith. "^ Ibid. 
•* Boyle's 'Natural Ventilation.' * Ibid. ^ A Report on the Ventilation of the 
House of Commons. ® Jour. Pharm. Chini., vol. vi., p. 176. ^ The Analyst, 
September, 1905, and the following: 'Cornwall as a Health Resort,' E. Kitto ; 
' The Climate of Long Island,' Sanatarian, March, 1904 ; The Denver Medical 
Times, January, 1904 ; The North- JVcstern Journal of Romwopathy, December, 
1903 ; The Neiv England Medical Monthly, June, 1903 ; Ker Cross' ' Health in 
Africa'; Moore's 'Disease in India'; Longmans' Geographical Series ; Heilprin's 
' Distribution of Animals'; ' The Geographical Distribution of Animals,' Wallace ; 
Swainson's ' Geogi'aphy and Distribution of Animals'; The Official Handbooks 
and Records of many Health Resorts. 



PART HI 
FOOD AND HYGIENE IN SICKNESS 

CHAPTER XX 
ACUTE ILLNESS 

The selection of food appropriate for a person suffering from an 
acute illness is a matter of great importance. Persons accustomed 
to an abundance of solid food cannot always be convinced, when 
their appetite remains good, that a change of condition necessitates 
a change of diet. A man confined to a sick bed, with his body 
and mind at rest, his vital processes all slack, his heart, lungs, and 
stomach all working with less energy, requires a smaller amount 
of fuel than usual to keep his machinery going. But, although 
reduced in amount, it should be remembered that the internal 
work of the body is going on, and the fabric is being worn out by 
that work ; that so long as the human machinery is going, heat 
and energy will be required ; and to produce the requisite heat 
and energy, and to make good the losses by wear and tear or 
' depreciation of the machinery,' material must be supplied and 
assimilated. During fasting with absolute rest the body wastes, 
and its temperature is maintained at or near 984° F. 

In a healthy individual the daily losses of the body are 
300 grains of nitrogen, 4,200 grains of carbon, 360 grains of salts, 
and 30,000 grains of water ; but during sickness these amounts 
are frequently increased by pathological processes, and it often 
taxes the ingenuity and judgment of the attendants to make 
these losses good. In other words, the normal daily excretion of 
nitrogen is 11 or 12 grammes, but this is often increased con- 
siderably during an illness of a feverish nature. Thus, the 
excretion of nitrogen in five cases of pneumonia was found by 

424 



ACUTE ILLNESS 425 

Ewald to average 19"13 grammes per diem, which required a 
supply of 1'5 to 2 grammes of albumin per kilogramme of body- 
weight, or a total amount of 112 to 136 grammes of proteid daily. 
The amount of heat and energy expended by the human machinery 
in a day during health averages 2,310 calories or units of heat ; 
but it is often increased in sickness to 2,500 or 3,000 calories, or 
35 to 40 calories per kilogramme of body-weight per diem. 

In illness the nutrition is to be maintained on the principle of 
giving sustenance without increasing nitrogenous waste, care 
being taken that the food is sufficient to make good the losses of 
the body, and at the same time wholesome and easily digestible. 
The composition of foods being known, it is not difficult to 
calculate the amount required to produce 2,500 calories and 100 
or more grammes of proteid ; for 1 gramme of proteid will yield 
4*5 calories, of carbohydrate 4-1, of alcohol 7, and of fat 9-1 ; and 
100 grammes of proteid contain 14 grammes (396 grains) of 
nitrogen. The following dietary is sufficient to supply these 
amounts : Carbo- 

Proteid. hydi-ate. Fat. 

4 pints, or 2,268 grammes of milk = 90 108 83 gi-ammes. 

2 ounces, or 56'70 ,, oatmeal = 7*2 35'5 



2 ,, 56-70 

4 ,, 113-40 

I ,, 21-26 

h „ 14-17 



arrowroot = 0-5 47-5 — 

bread = 9-0 56-7 1-7 

sugar = — 21-0 — 

butter = 0-5 — 12-4 



Total 107-2 268-7 100-2 

The yield of heat and energy from this diet is about 2,500 

calories, thus : 

Proteid 107-2x4-5 = 482-40 

Carbohydrate 268-7x41 = 1101-67 

Fat 100-2x9-1 = 911-82 



2495-89 

More milk may be added to increase the proteid, and the 
amount of farinaceous materials may be diminished ; 1 pint of 
milk contains about 23 grammes of proteid, and will yield 
410 calories. 

Milk and its preparations forms the staple diet in sickness, 
because it contains the principles of a typical food in such a form 
as to be easily digested and assimilated. All milk should be 
cooked, but it may afterwards be drunk cold if it is preferred so. 
Milk is always curdled during its digestion ; but the curds 



426 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

produced in boiled milk are smaller than those in raw milk, for 
which reason boiled milk is more easily digested, and it has the 
advantage of being sterilized. When vomiting occurs during an 
illness, the addition of an equal amount of lime-water, barley- 
water, or soda-water to the milk will check it, and prevent the 
formation of hard or tough curds in the milk during digestion. 
Milk disagrees with fat, heavy, or languid people of slow circula- 
tion, with many people of sedentary habits, and those whose 
stomach is weakened by alcoholic excesses. But with a little 
patience the system will accommodate itself to the new food, 
which becomes a bland and soothing diet. To a very few people, 
milk is really insupportable ; they cannot digest it, it gives them 
a headache, and makes them vomit or upsets their liver. Plain 
milk should not be forced upon such people; but they can usually 
take it diluted with lime-water, barley-water, or soda-water ; they 
can also take milk-powder or casein preparations ; and during 
convalescence they may be able to take milk puddings, custard, 
junket, clotted cream, cream cheese, or new milk cheese, and 
from these things obtain the valuable principles of milk. 

Eggs are a very important and excellent article of diet for sick 
people ; combined with milk they will adequately replace meat 
during the period when solid food is not allowable. Eaw eggs 
may be given in boiled milk, tea, coffee, soup, or egg-flip ; two or 
three a day is a fair quantity for an adult, and one a day for a 
child of a year or two old. The white of an egg, well whipped, 
may be given in lemon-water to a person who vomits other food ; 
it is a pleasant drink, relished by patients, and assists in checking 
nausea. Custards, farinaceous puddings, and other modes of 
preparing eggs for the sick, are known to most cooks. Poached 
or scrambled eggs are very light, and make a suitable meal for 
those who are not feverish. Two eggs weighing 113 grammes 
contain 14-2 grammes of proteid, 10-7 of fat, and yield about 
160 calories or units of heat. 

Farinaceous foods, such as fine oatmeal, baked flour, banana 
flour, prepared barley, arrowroot, cornflour, revalenta, semolina, 
rice, sago, tapioca, vermicelli, macaroni, mashed potato, dry 
toast, bread, sponge cake, madeira and other light cakes, are 
most of them easily digested, and are the means of conveying into 
the system much nutriment capable of supplying heat and energy. 



ACUTE ILLNESS 427 

Concerning the digestibility of starch, it may be said that starch 
from roots — e.g., arrowroot, tons Ic viois, and potato starch — are 
far more rapidly and easily digested than the cereals. Sago and 
tapioca are also very easily digested, which indicates that these 
substances should be given earlier in the illness than bread, 
baked flour, oatmeal, cornflour or rice. There are many ex- 
ceedingly useful patent foods, some of which are malted or so 
changed as to be adapted for most conditions of ill-health. It 
should, however, never be forgotten that during a high tempera- 
ture and some other conditions of the body the mouth is dry and 
the salivary and other digestive secretions are scanty or deficient 
in quality, from which it follows that a large quantity of any kind 
of farinaceous food, unless predigested, cannot be assimilated 
during the continuance of that condition, but will cause indigestion, 
flatulence, distension of the bowels, and other discomfort. 

Beef-tea, soup, broth, and meat essences generally, are used 
during the acute stage of nearly all forms of illness. They 
contain only 6 per cent, of dissolved and coagulated albumin, 
1 or 2 per cent, of carbohydrate, and some salts ; in fact, they are 
very expensive but not very valuable articles of food. One pint 
of beef-tea, made from a pound of lean beef, will yield roughly 
22 to 33 grammes of proteid, but only 115 to 200 calories ; it 
should be observed that this is less than half the caloric value of 
the same quantity of milk (see ' Beef-tea '). These liquids are, 
however, stimulants to tissue change, and are not to be despised 
altogether, although they are not relied on now so much as 
formerly. They may be taken to the extent of 1 pint in twenty- 
four hours. Patients soon tire of them. The flavour of beef-tea 
or broth should be changed every time a fresh supply is made ; 
onion, celery, parsley, mint, thyme, marjoram, savory, or bay-leaf 
may all be used in turn, care being taken that the vegetable is 
removed before giving the liquid to the patient. Mushroom 
ketchup or tomato sauce may be used as a flavouring ; but heavy 
vegetables like turnips should never be used to make broth for 
invalids, because they contain an indigestible oil. 

Drink. — The thirst of a patient may be quenched by giving 
frequent sips of cold water, small particles of ice,* or a slice of 

* It is sometimes a difficult matter to keep ice in a sick-room. The following 
method has been found useful : Put the chijiped ice in a soup-plate and cover it 



428 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

lemon to suck. The following liquids may also be given ad 
libitum, providing they are not consumed to the exclusion of milk 
or other nourishment : lemon-water, orange-water, apple-water, 
raspberry vinegar and water, black-currant tea, linseed tea, 
barley-water, oatmeal-water, rice-water, butter-milk, whey, 
tamarind-whey, koumiss, etc. Fruit-jellies, such as black-currant, 
raspberry, apple, and barberry jelly, which contain organic acids, 
are also useful to quench thirst. It should be observed, however, 
that very much calf's-foot jelly or ordinary jelly made with 
gelatine will not quench the thirst, but has a tendency to 
aggravate it. 

Stimulants. — In acute illness, tea, coffee, and cocoa are all 
valuable stimulants and restoratives, which can be made the 
means of inducing the patient to drink milk. Tea and coffee can 
be made double the ordinary strength and diluted with an equal 
quantity of boiled milk ; cocoa should be, and coffee may be, 
made entirely of milk. Guarana and mate are very useful stimu- 
lants for cases in which headache or nervous exhaustion is a 
marked feature of the illness. 

Alcohol must be used sparingly ; it is a valuable diffusible 
stimulant, and is best given in the form of a spirit. A table- 
spoonful of brandy or whisky every two or three hours is 
considered a moderate dose for an adult ; children require less in 
proportion to their age ; it should be given in milk or some other 
article of food. Four ounces of brandy containing 36 per cent, of 
alcohol will yield 43 c.c. of absolute alcohol and 300 calories ; 
4 ounces of whisky containing 50 per cent, of alcohol will yield 
410 calories, which represent the value of the spirit as a food. 
The indications for the use of alcohol are a pulse of 120 or more 
per minute, a dry brown tongue, and signs of exhaustion; in such 
cases it strengthens the heart, encourages the circulation, enUvens 
the patient, and assists in lowering the temperature. But due 
caution is required, as these effects may be followed by depression, 
which spreads rapidly from the higher nerve-centres to the lower. 
If the dryness of the tongue increases or it becomes browner, the 
thirst is greater, the pulse and respirations quicker after alcohol 

with another. Place the plate upon a feather pillow, press it down, and put 
another pillow on the top. Ice can be kept a long time in this way, because tlie 
feathers are non-conductors of heat. 



ACUTE ILLNESS 429 

than before it, it is doing more harm than good ; its place should 
be occupied by other stimulants, such as musk or ammonia. The 
patient's habits must be taken into consideration when deciding 
whether to give alcohol or not, as well as his age, the nature of 
the disease, and state of his kidneys. In some cases of extreme 
prostration alcohol is a valuable ally ; it becomes absolutely a 
food which yields heat and energy while undergoing oxidation, 
the amount of heat being 7 calories for each gramme of absolute 
alcohol. It never becomes an integral part of the body, but it 
spares the destruction of the protoplasm of the body, and to a 
corresponding degree diminishes the formation and elimination of 
waste materials ; correlative facts prove a reduction in the absorp- 
tion of oxygen and of the temperature of the body owing to 
diminished oxidation. These facts led to the use of large quan- 
tities of whisky and brandy, 1 pint or more per day, in the 
treatment of such cases ; but the necessity for such quantities is 
by no means obvious, and the experience of temperance hospitals 
proves that the same class of cases can be treated as well without 
it, and sometimes with better results. Owing, therefore, to the 
tendency to form a habit, to the natural excuse that the doctor 
ordered it, and to the dire effects such habit may have upon 
the moral and physical condition of the consumer, it behoves us to 
be exceedingly cautious about the use of so powerful, so valuable, 
and at the same time so pernicious an article. The dose of two 
teaspoonfuls to a tablespoonful, measured in a graduated measuring 
glass, every three hours is equivalent to 2 to 4 ounces in twenty- 
four hours. When administering it to infants, great care is 
required to insure the accurate measurement of the dose and its 
proper distribution over the twenty-four hours. Let a teaspoonful 
of brandy be mixed with 1^ ounces of sweetened water in a 
bottle ; each teaspoonful will contain 5 drops, which is a sufficient 
dose for an infant under a year old, and may be given every two 
or three hours according to necessity. There are various alcoholic 
mixtures suitable for patients during an acute illness, e.g. : 

(a) Egg-flip. — Beat well the entire raw egg, pour upon it a tea- 
cupful of boiling milk, add a tablespoonful of brandy or whisky 
and a little sugar. 

{b) Egg-wine. — Add a tablespoonful of cold water to a raw 
egg, whip it thoroughly, pour upon it half a teacupful of hot 



430 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

water and a wiaeglassful of port or sherry, stii-ring it all the 
time ; put the mixture into a clean saucepan over a fire, and 
stir it in one direction until it thickens ; it should not be 
allowed to boil. Serve it in a glass, with a strip of toast or a 
biscuit. Sometimes wine is mixed with raw eggs without heating 
them . 

(e) The Brandy Mixture of the British Pharmacopoeia consists 
of 4 ounces of brandy and of cinnamon water, the yolk of two 
eggs, and | ounce of castor sugar thoroughly mixed together. 
The dose is half a wineglassful every three hours. Alcohol may 
also be added to various foods, such as jelly or soup ; in fact, 
there are innumerable ways of combining the flavour and stimu- 
lating qualities of wine or spirits with the food. 

The proper feeding of a sick person is a distinguishing quality 
of a good nurse, for the welfare and comfort of the patient 
depends very much upon the amount and quality of the food and 
its mode of administration. A helpless person can be most easily 
fed by means of a feeding-cup, which should only be three parts 
filled, to avoid spilling the contents over the clothing. The patient 
can be slightly raised for the purpose by placing a hand under 
the shoulders or the pillow. The patient cannot be raised by 
putting a hand under the head ; this would only bend the neck, 
and a female would be teased by catching the fingers in her hair. 
A patient who is acutely ill should not, as a general rule, be 
allowed to go more than two hours without food, because faint- 
ness and exhaustion are so easily induced. Instruction should 
be given to the nurse if it is considered desirable to awaken a 
patient for food. When only liquid food is being taken, the 
patient may be roused just enough to drink some milk or beef-tea, 
and then fall asleep again. Sometimes it requires a little judg- 
ment to know what to do. If the patient has had sleepless nights 
or days for some time previously, the sleep may be more impor- 
tant than the food ; if, on the other hand, the person sleeps well, 
and a long interval has elapsed from the last meal, he should be 
aroused for his food rather than faintness should be induced ; 
when a patient both sleeps well and takes regular meals there 
need be no scruple about wakening him. 

Patients are sometimes starved in the midst of plenty from 
want of attention to the ways which make it possible for them to 



ACUTE ILLNESS 431 

take sufficient food. A person may be unable to drink a cupful 
of milk or beef-tea at once, but would probably be able to take a 
tablespoonful or two of milk, egg and milk, beef-tea, or farinaceous 
food, every fifteen or thirty minutes ; this would be far better than 
the hopeless attempt to force a much larger quantity upon him 
every two or three hours. A tablespoonful of milk every half an 
hour would amount to 1| pints in twenty-four hours — that is, not 
enough to supply the needs of the system. Four tablespoonfuls 
or a wineglassful every half an hour would amount to nearly 
5 pints in twenty-four hours, which is enough to supply the 
demands of the system for water and proteid ; it would produce 
2,000 calories or units of heat, and the proper caloric requirement 
could be obtained by thickening some of the milk with arrowroot 
and sweetening it with sugar. It surprises many people to find 
how much food can be consumed by adopting the principle of 
' little and often ' in the method of feeding. 

When the acute stage is passing off the amount of food to be 
taken must depend very much on the likes and dislikes of the 
patients, the normal requirements of the body always being the 
guide as to sufficiency ; observation is the best guide and appetite 
the rule. Milk should still be an important item of the dietary. 
Half a pint of milk with an egg in it will give more nourishment 
than \ pound of meat, and is far more easily digested : 10 ounces 
of milk and an egg contains 18-6 grammes of proteid, 13-5 of 
carbohydrate, 15-7 of fat, and would yield 282 calories ; 4 ounces 
of cooked meat contains 31-8 grammes of proteid, 17'5 of fat, 
and would yield 213 calories. Milk is less troublesome to the 
digestive organs than meat, and being free from purin bases, is 
less irritating to the kidneys. The addition of eggs to farinaceous 
foods, milk puddings, and the like, materially adds to their 
nutritiousness and wholesomeness. Butter is the lightest and 
most easily digested fat ; cream contains the same kind of fat, is 
readily digested by most people, and is indispensable in some 
cases of illness. Sugar is a very ready means of supplying carbo- 
hydrate, and is easily absorbed by most patients ; it can be freely 
used in many articles of food. Arrowroot, cornflour, sago, 
tapioca, and rice, consisting more of starch than anything else, 
are not so nourishing as oatmeal, banana flour, maize meal, baked 
flour, semolina, vermicelli, and macaroni. Soup, broth, jelly, dry 



432 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

toast, a little bread-and-butter, sponge cake, and Madeira cake, 
may now form a part of the dietary. 

During convalescence, which dates from the passing of the acute 
stage or period of abnormal temperature, the patient may be 
allowed to have milk puddings ; and as the digestive organs 
recover their wonted functions, fish, oysters, and white flesh can 
be gradually added to the list. Larger meals, consisting of a 
greater variety of food, should be taken at longer intervals. Food 
should be now taken every two hours, or at longer intervals in 
proportion to the solidity and quantity of food consumed. The 
following list gives an ample selection of articles suitable for the 
convalescent : Fish which has been steamed, of the light and soft 
kinds — e.g., whiting, sole, plaice, brill, turbot, haddock, flounder, 
and cod. The following kinds of fish are not suitable : mackerel, 
salmon, trout, halibut, ling, skate, eel, conger-eel, lamprey, 
gudgeon, sturgeon, mullet, etc. Oysters are allowed to be eaten 
raw ; cooking them makes them indigestible. Chicken, pheasant, 
partridge, pigeon, rabbit, mutton, and calves' head or feet, are all 
suitable when simply cooked and without forcemeat or condi- 
ments. The following are unsuitable : duck, goose, hare, and 
game generally; veal, pork, sausage, ham, and highly-seasoned 
dishes. 

Vegetables are not admissible during the acute stage, but in con- 
valescence we may allow a moderate amount of potato, cauliflower, 
spinach, vegetable marrow, squash, tomato, kidney beans, green 
peas, and other soft vegetables, or a j^uree made from them. But 
cabbage, turnips, carrots, and other heavy vegetables, and raw 
vegetables like lettuce, celery, radishes, onions, and pickles, are 
unsuitable ; they are bulky, generate gases, and are a tax upon 
the digestive organs. 

Fruit is tabooed in the acute stage of many diseases, but the 
juice of grapes, oranges, and lemons may be given. When the 
abdominal organs are not implicated we may allow a few grapes, 
strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, a banana or an orange. 
During convalescence these fruits may be allowed freely, as well 
as cooked apples, pears, rhubarb, or plums, taking care that they 
are not consumed to the exclusion of more important articles of 
food. 

The meal should be fully prepared before it is presented to the 



ACUTE ILLNESS 433 

patient ; he should not be kept waiting for knife, spoon, bread, or 
any other article. The appetite only comes at intervals, and if 
the patient is kept waiting a few minutes the desire for food may 
vanish, and leave behind a sense of faintness and languor. The 
food should be presented in a clean and tidy fashion, for the 
appetite is coy and requires courting. Badly prepared, untidily 
presented, or unsightly food will often drive away the appetite. 
Let the food, therefore, be on a nice piece of china — for prefer- 
ence some article the patient is fond of — placed upon a clean 
napkin or d'oyley, with other articles to correspond ; a poor 
appetite may be tempted and lured by food daintily prepared and 
presented. If the patient expresses a desire for any particular 
article of food, it should not be given without the doctor's per- 
mission, nor should his concurrence be unreasonably withheld. 
Food should never be kept in a sick-room, excepting a very small 
quantity of milk or similar article for immediate use. Do not 
take the patient too large a meal, but get more for him if he can 
eat it. All plates, china, glasses, and other articles, should be 
removed from the room as soon as the meal is over. Food which 
has been in the sick-room should not be eaten elsewhere. 



THE FEVERS. 

Heat is produced by every act of vital energy, is distributed 
throughout the body, and finally lost in the surrounding air. It 
is developed during metabolism by the chemical and physiological 
processes which are constantly going on in the body. Its pro- 
duction and loss is governed by the nervous system, and it is 
used for warming the body, for conversion into energy, and to 
cause an evaporation of water from the surface of the skin. 
Most heat is produced in the muscles. It disappears from the 
body through the skin by radiation, conduction, or convection, and 
evaporation of water. The escape or loss of heat is regulated by 
' centres ' in the nervous system acting through the vaso-motor 
and vaso-constrictor nerves which govern the circulation of blood 
through the skin. If the skin becomes hot the bloodvessels 
dilate and more blood circulates through it, the sweat glands are 
stimulated, and heat and moisture escape to the surrounding air. 
A rise of the body temperature is due either to increased produc- 

28 



434 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

tion or diminished loss of heat. The mechanism which regulates 
the temperature is very liable to become disordered, and such 
disturbance will lead to an increased production or a diminished 
loss of heat. Independently of this, an increased production of 
heat takes place in many fevers, and a diminution in the loss of 
heat in other circumstances, a familiar example being a ' chill ' 
from damp or cold. Such disturbances of the temperature of the 
body occur in all fevers where the body is invaded by pathogenic 
organisms, which settle in and thrive upon the pabulum of the 
tissues, and throw their toxins into the plasma and blood. By 
their metabolism these organisms give rise to increased heat pro- 
duction, and, on the other hand, their toxins disorder the heat 
mechanism and cause a diminution in the loss of heat. Even in 
a local inflammation, such as an abscess or a symptomatic fever, 
there is a local increase of metabolism with increased production 
of heat, and, as in specific fevers, the heat-regulating apparatus 
is disturbed by the toxins arising in the inflamed area. In other 
local maladies, like renal or hepatic colic, which are not particu- 
larly associated with bacteria or other microbes, the functions of 
the heat centre are upset by peripheral irritation ; the high tem- 
perature is then attributed to reflex stimulation of the heat centre, 
just as profuse perspiration may be produced by a reflex stimula- 
tion of the sweat centre. 

"What is a high temperature? The normal temperature of 
984° F. is maintained in a healthy individual in all climates and 
under all circumstances, so well is the production and loss of 
heat regulated by the nervous system. Nevertheless, the body 
temperature fluctuates in every healthy individual, the daily 
range being 1°, It is lowest between 2 and 7 a.m. ; it gradually 
rises from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., and remains at its maximum until 
7 or 8 p.m., after which it slowly falls till midnight. These daily 
variations are much exaggerated during sickness. A moderate 
degree of fever is that which is attended by a temperature of 
99° to 101° in the morning, rising to 102-5° in the evening. In 
a severe fever the temperature is 101° to 103° in the morning, 
and rises to 105^ in the evening. A condition of hyperiJijrcxia 
exists when the temperature rises to more than 105°, and the 
patient seldom recovers if it exceeds 107'^. k stthnormal tempera- 
ture is quite common after a course of inflammation or fever, and 



ACUTE ILLNESS 435 

generally ranges from 97° to 96° ; in a state of shock or collapse 
it may sink to 95° or even 92°. When it sinks to 92° and remains 
so persistently, the patient seldom recovers. 

In all the infectious diseases micro-organisms gain access to 
the body, and require a period for their development, which is 
known as the ' incubation stage.' During this period the bacteria 
multiply rapidly by fission and spore formation, and various pro- 
ducts of their metabolic activity are formed. Research points to 
the symptoms of infectious diseases being due not so much to the 
action of the microbes on the tissues as to their products. The 
latter include chemical substances, ptomaines, toxalbumins, and 
albumoses, which are more or less soluble, and briefly called 
' toxins,' besides less powerful bodies, such as gases, pigments, 
fatty acids, and aromatic substances. Observations have been 
made in most of the infectious diseases which show that the 
' toxins ' exert a direct action upon the cells of the body and 
upon the heat-regulating apparatus. Whether the disease will 
develop or run a mild or severe course depends upon the power 
of the body to resist it. During health immunity from disease is 
enjoyed, owing to the protective influence exerted by the cells, 
and their ability to resist the invasion of the parasites. Some 
authors assert that this defensive action is due to the proteid 
ferments normally present in the bodily fluids which have a dis- 
tinctly germicidal effect ; the defensive power of blood-serum is 
believed to be due to a globulin which has such an effect on 
bacteria. On the other hand, it is known that the white cells of 
the blood and other body fluids grapple with such invaders 
and destroy them. Large irregular multinucleated cells, called 
phagocytes, are to be seen laden with bacteria, and it is probable 
that these cells secrete substances, called ' antitoxins,' which are 
capable of neutralizing the bacterial toxins. People in robust 
health are, by virtue of the cellular powers, ivwmne to most 
diseases ; some people possess an innate immunity to special 
diseases, as the negro to yellow fever ; during an epidemic a 
certain number of persons always escape infection. An acquired 
immunity is conferred upon the system by having recently had a 
disease ; and such immunity is imitated by vaccination against 
small-pox and inoculation for cholera and rabies. The explana- 
tion of immunity is far from complete ; it does not depend solely 

28—2 



436 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

upon 2^^tctgocytosis, or the destruction of bacteria by white cells of 
the infected person. The explanation probably lies in the stimu- 
lation of the body cells to greater resisting and antitoxic powers 
than they formerly possessed, and to the secretion of such anti- 
toxins during the height or decline of the fever as destroy the 
life and effects of the bacteria. It is known that putrefactive 
bacteria produce by their action upon albuminous substances 
certain antiseptics, as indol, skatol, cresol, and other compounds 
of phenol, which destroy these organisms ; and by analogy it is 
suggested that the decline of a fever is due to substances pro- 
duced by the activity of the body cells or by the bacteria, 
thereby insuring their own death. 

Fever is accompanied by disturbance of nearly every function 
in the body, which shows how profoundly the system is im- 
pressed by the bacterial invasion. Perhaps the first symptom of 
note is the rise of temperature, which is usually accompanied by 
a feeling of chilliness or a distinct rigor ; although the surface of 
the body may be cold, the internal parts are hotter than normal, 
the skin soon becomes hot and dry or moist and warm, or an 
eruption appears upon it. The alimentary system is affected : the 
tongue gets furred, moist, and white, or dry and brown with red 
tip and edges ; the mouth is dry from suspension of salivation ; 
the coating on the tongue is an accumulation of epithelial scales, 
fungi, and dried secretion ; thirst is due to the heat and dryness of 
the mouth and the absence of mucus and saliva ; relish, appetite, 
and digestion are impaired, owing to a deficiency of the secretions, 
and the bowels are confined. The urine or secretion of the 
kidneys is likewise scanty, high-coloured, it deposits lithates and 
urea in excess, while chlorides are deficient. The heart is 
quickened, pulse 110 to 120 or more ; the respirations also 
quicken as the temperature and pulse go up. The nervous 
system is profoundly affected, even during the stage of incuba- 
tion ; there is headache, disinclination to think or make mental 
effort, intellectual dulness, and, after a time, drowsiness, wander- 
ing, or actual delirium. 

Treatment.— A. There are many ways in which we may assist 
in regulating the heat of the body. Thus, if we raise the tem- 
perature of the air around us, we shall increase the loss of heat 
from the body by perspiration : the cutaneous vessels dilate, and 



ACUTE ILLNESS 437 

more blood rushes through them, with a consequent increase of 
radiation and evaporation ; the skin is the principal channel for 
heat loss. If we diminish metabolic activity by entire rest in bed, 
by lessening the circulation and respiration, and by abstaining 
from solid food, we lessen the heat production. 

The temperature of the bedroom should be about 60'^ F., and 
the patient lightly covered with clothing. The difference of 40° 
or more becween the temperature of the patient's body in fever 
and that of the surrounding air affords a valuable means of 
abstracting heat by radiation and convection. The room must 
be well ventilated, and the extremities kept warm by clothing 
or a hot-water bottle in the bed. Heat may be abstracted from 
the body by means of baths, wet packs, sponging the general 
surface, local application of ice, compresses, or evaporating lotions. 
(a) Cold sponging is a simple and easy method of abstracting 
hea,t, and may be used in almost every case. A basin of luke- 
warm or quite cold water is prepared, and a little Eau de Cologne 
or other spirit added ; the patient is then placed upon a folded 
sheet, and uncovered and sponged limb by limb. The process 
should only occupy about ten minutes, during which the tempera- 
ture falls 2° or more. The application is grateful, soothing, and 
agreeable to the patient, and often induces sleep. The temperature 
will probably rise again after a time, and the sponging may be 
repeated every four or six hours, (b) The wet pack may be used 
when the temperature exceeds 103°. The patient is stripped, 
laid upon a folded sheet over a mackintosh, then wrapped in 
another sheet wrung out of quite cold water and covered by a 
blanket or two. He is kept in it for ten or fifteen minutes, after 
which it may be removed and the patient gently rubbed down 
and made comfortable. The temperature falls several degrees, 
and may rise again. It may be repeated every four or six hours, 
(c) The cold bath is much used in enteric. The temperature of 
the patient is taken every three hours, and whenever it rises to 
103° he is placed in a bath of water at 60°, 70°, or 80°, for ten or 
fifteen minutes, according to its effects, or until the temperature 
in the rectum is normal. He is then removed, lightly dried, and 
placed in bed. Sometimes the patient is put in a warm bath, 
and while he is in it cold water is added to lower the temperature 
of the bath to 70° or 65°. In most cases it suffices to have a 



438 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

large bath near the bedside. The water soon attains the same 
temperature as the air of the room, and the patient can be lifted 
into it as often as it is desired ; or the heat of the water can be 
raised by adding a kettleful of boiling water, (d) Ice-bags are 
local applications for abstracting heat from the head, chest, 
abdomen, a joint, or other inflamed part, (c) Evaporating lotion 
is applied by means of a fold of lint or linen, or by a skein of 
wool hanging from a bottle of lotion. (/) Letter's tube consists 
of a coil of indiarubber tubing, through which water is constantly 
running, and it is appHed to an inflamed area. 

We can increase the loss of heat through the cutaneous circu- 
lation by dilating the bloodvessels and sending a larger amount 
of blood through them, and by stimulating the sweat glands. We 
do this when we use warm or hot baths (90'^ to 110° F.), vapour 
or Turkish baths, poultices, fomentations, turpentine stupes, 
and counter-irritants ; warm food and liquids act in a similar 
manner. Alcohol and other cardiac stimulants, by driving more 
blood through the cutaneous bloodvessels, increase the refrigera- 
tion of the body ; frequent draughts of warm or cold water 
cause a temporary distension of the bloodvessels, and produce a 
refrigerating effect. Increasing the clothing and the temperature 
of the air likewise dilates the vessels of the skin, stimulates the 
sweat centres, and causes a freer secretion by the sweat glands. 

Other heat-losing channels may be stimulated. By increasing 
the flow of urine we have a direct means of abstracting heat and 
reducing temperature ; this may be aided by such foods as 
oatmeal gruel, and drinks which act upon the kidneys, such as 
an abundance of plain water and its variants, lemon, black- 
currant, linseed, or barley water ; by dilute alcohol ; by foods 
containing an abundance of potash ; by milk, tea or coffee. The 
administration of a purgative materially assists heat reduction by 
carrying away liquid, watery motions, and by the reflex dilatation 
of the cutaneous vessels which attends purgation. The action of 
the kidneys and bowels is disturbed in most feverish conditions, 
and by setting free these emunctories we may exert a decidedly 
beneficial effect upon the course of the fever. 

Mere abstraction of heat from the body does not lessen heat 
production ; this is made clear when the means used are bathing 
or the wet pack ; the temperature is reduced 3° or 4° by abstrac- 



ACUTE ILLNESS 439 

tion, but it may soon go up to the same height again. We must, 
therefore, endeavour to get a diminished heat production — in 
other words, strike at the root of the disease. We diminish the 
metabolic activity and heat production by rest in bed, abstinence 
from solid food, and other hygienic measures, and it naturally 
decreases during the decline of the fever. Drugs, such as quinine, 
control the metabolism of the tissues, and are bactericidal ; 
other drugs reduce the temperature and heat production by their 
influence on the centres governing the production of heat, or by 
slowing the action of the heart and lowering the circulation. 

B. The effects of pyrexia must be met or removed, (a) There 
is a marked deficiency of saliva in all acute febrile or inflammatory 
states, and consequently thirst, dryness of the mouth and tongue, 
loss of taste, relish, and appetite, and inability to swallow solid 
food. Thirst may be quenched and dryness of the mouth 
removed by slightly acid drinks, which promote the secretion of 
saliva ; such are the juice of oranges, lemons, grapes, drinks 
made from apples, prunes, cranberries, barberries, tamarind, and 
black-currant or raspberry vinegar. Demulcents relieve thirst 
and dryness by supplying an artificial substitute for the natural 
mucus ; good examples are linseed tea, egg and water, jelly water, 
isinglass and milk, figs, raisins, syrup, honey, oxymel, glycerine, 
and starchy fluids made of cornflour or arrowroot. Frequent 
sips of pure water, ice-water, bits of ice, toast-water, soda-water, 
or other effervescing draughts, will relieve thirst and dryness. 
Water and its mixtures may usually be taken freely ; besides 
quenching the thirst, they thin the blood, increase the circulation 
through the skin, and stimulate perspiration ; they flush the 
kidneys, and assist in removing the products of tissue metabolism, 
and in other ways tend to lower the temperature, (b) The 
secretions of the stomach and bowels are likewise deficient in 
quantity and quality. If the patient could eat meat and other 
substantial viands, it would not be proper for him to do so, for 
the digestion of these substances would be difiicult and slow, and 
in all probability indigestion or gastric catarrh would be induced. 
An abundance of nutritious and easily-digested food is essential 
to provide for the daily losses ; an adult may have 4 to 5 pints of 
milk, and 1 pint of beef-tea, veal broth, chicken, mutton, or 
rabbit broth daily. The soup or milk may be thickened in some 



440 t^^OOD AND HYGIENE 

cases with arrowroot, fine oatmeal, revalenta ; blancmange, 
custard, jelly, and raw eggs may be given in alternation. When 
milk disagrees, it may be mixed with an equal quantity of lime, 
barley or soda water, or it may be peptonized by the use of 
iiquor pancreaticus or peptonizing powder. In rare cases milk 
cannot be retained at all, and a temporary substitute is found in 
albumin-water ; beat up the white of an egg, and mix it with a 
teacupful of lemon-water. Various meat essences are under such 
circumstances very useful, (c) The heart and circulation may 
need stimulation, for which purpose tea and coffee are suitable ; 
they should be made strong, and afterwards diluted with hot 
milk. They stimulate the heart, rouse torpid nerve centres,' and 
are diuretic. Lemon-water or lemon-juice is a sedative to the 
heart, and reduces the rapidity and force of the pulse. Alcohol 
is rarely needed when the pulse is less than 100 per minute ; but 
if it is quick (115, 120, or more), feeble, irregular, and the first 
sound inaudible, alcohol is necessary. Its necessity is accentuated 
if the tongue is dry, brown, and tremulous, or there is a low 
muttering delirium ; from 2 to 4 ounces of brandy or whisky may 
then be given in divided doses in twenty-four hours, its effects 
being carefully watched. Collapse may be met by giving some 
form of alcohol or coffee, and in bad cases by slapping the face 
with a wet towel or rhythmic traction of the tongue. Coldness of 
the extremities may be due to feebleness of the circulation or 
collapse, and the limbs should be rubbed with dry mustard or 
ginger, warm bottles applied to the feet, and a warm wrap put 
around the limbs. 

Special Forms of Pyrexia. — It will be a sufficient guide if two 
types are discussed, rheumatic and enteric fevers, for the lines of 
general treatment are the same in all cases. 

(a) Rheumatic Fever, Acute Rheumatism. — In the acute stage 
the diet should consist of 4 or 5 pints of milk, as in other diseases ; 
but, on account of the profuse acid ^perspiration, the milk should 
be diluted with an equal quantity of water or barley-water, to 
each pint of which half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 
a quarter of a teaspoonfnl of common salt are added. Iced lemon- 
water, also containing a little soda or potash, may be taken freely. 
A little thin gruel made of oatmeal may be given several times a 
day, but as a rule very little is required but milk during the acute 



I 



ACUTE ILLNESS 441 

stage. The patient should be absolutely at rest, and lie upon a 
thin blanket over a soft mattress ; he should be covered by a 
sheet and other bedclothing according to necessity. The shirt or 
gown should be made of woollen material or flannelette : it should 
be made to open all down the front ; the sleeves should be made 
to open from the wrist to the elbow. The joints should be 
wrapped in wool, and may have an alkaline lotion applied to 
them ; the knees and ankles will be more comfortable if protected 
by a cradle. The use of a bed-pan is absolutely necessary. 

When the acute stage has passed off, the patient may have 
some clear soup or broth flavoured with vegetables, the salts of 
which are valuable for the disease. We may also add to the 
diet a little stale bread-and-butter, pounded meat or chicken, 
milk pudding, bread-aud-milk, custard, blancmange, junket, jelly, 
and a few grapes or strawberries. After the temperature has 
remained normal for a day or two, we may give experimentally a 
poached egg or one of the lighter kinds of fish ; if these are borne 
without discomfort, we may also add a little chicken, game, 
mashed potato, cauliflower, spinach, or vegetable marrow, after 
which he may gradually return to the ordinary diet. 

{/>) In enteric fever the patient must be confined to bed, a 
hair bed and spring mattress being the most suitable. The bed- 
clothing should be as light as is consistent with warmth ; too 
much clothing would prevent the radiation of heat and evapora- 
tion of moisture from the body, and tend to keep up the high 
temperature. During the course of the disease the patient's 
body should be frequently sponged with cold or tepid water, to 
reduce the temperature. Cold baths are also valuable for the 
same purpose ; and frequent tepid baths (75'' to 85° F.) reduce 
both the temperature and the dangers arising from the disease. 
A single bath reduces the fever, headache, stupor, or delirium ; 
under its influence the pulse becomes firmer, thirst is diminished, 
and the patient feels relieved. The effect of a bath is, however, 
only temporary, and it should be repeated when the temperature 
again rises to 103°. This course of treatment entails some trouble 
to the nurse, and sometimes patients dislike it, but it is worth 
all the trouble and inconvenience to the patient. Cold wet packs 
and cold sponging are less trouble, but they are also less efiicient. 
When a course of cold baths is regularly adopted, there is less 



442 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

risk of hcemorrhage from the bowels and pneumonia ; but the 
existence of these complications is a contraindication to their use. 
Haemorrhage from the bowels may be controlled by giving the 
patient ice to suck and placing an ice-bag or ice-water compress 
over the abdomen. Tympanites may also be reduced by giving 
ice to suck, by applying an ice-bag or compress over the abdomen, 
or by injecting turpentine into the rectum. 

The food should consist almost entirely of milk. Five pints of 
milk in twenty-four hours will nearly supply all the elements 
which the body needs ; this quantity is quite easily consumed by 
most persons if it is divided into small meals of | pint each. If 
milk is badly borne by the patient, it should be peptonized, and 
various preparations of casein, or milk powder, and koumiss can 
be used with advantage. Two or three eggs may be given daily 
in the milk ; and a pint of beef-tea, chicken broth, mutton broth, 
or clear soup can also be given. Beef-tea sometimes causes 
diarrhoea, but chicken and mutton broth do not. 

Farinaceous foods, especially arrowroot and cornflour, may be 
combined with milk and the white of eggs in proportion to the 
diarrhoea ; the starch in these foods will probably not all be 
digested, but it will assist in controlling the diarrhoea, and is 
valuable to that extent. Nutmeg and cinnamon are pleasant 
flavourings for farinaceous foods, and are also of value in checking 
the diarrhoea. The yolk of eggs should not be given if the 
diarrhoea is severe and persistent. When there is marked 
constipation, we may give more beef-tea and raw eggs ; but the 
cornflour and arrowroot should be replaced by 2 or 3 ounces of 
fine oatmeal daily. Many authorities forbid farinaceous food in 
every case of enteric fever, but I am convinced of the value of 
their judicious and moderate use. An eminent physician pre- 
scribed the following diet for a case of enteric with diarrhoea : 
8 pints of milk daily, thickened with cornflour, arrowroot, or 
a patent food ; also a little boiled stale bread with milk, a small 
piece of sponge cake or Madeira cake, the white of eggs, custard 
and jelly. 

Whenever the patient takes milk with difficulty, it should be 
mixed with lime-water, barley-water, tea, coffee, or cocoa. The 
white of eggs mixed with lemon-water is much relished by 
patients, and is partially a substitute for milk. 



ACUTE ILLNESS 443 

The patient cannot be allowed coarse oatmeal, vegetables, and 
fruit, but the juice of an orange, lemon, or grapes may be 
taken ; thirst may also be quenched by sucking a small slice of 
lemon occasionally. 

The patient should be kept on fluid food until the temperature 
has been normal for ten days ; only in mild cases should the rule 
be relaxed. During convalescence the solidity of the food may 
be increased daily. We may gradually add mashed potato, 
custard, junket, jelly, blancmange, boiled bread-and-milk, sponge 
cake, Madeira cake, roasted apple, stewed rhubarb, and puree of 
parsnip or other vegetables. After these soft foods have been 
given, and it is ascertained that they can be taken with impunity, 
a little pounded beef or chicken, sole, plaice, whiting, or other 
light fish, then a slice of fowl, pheasant, or mutton, may be added 
in the order named. 

Care must be taken with regard to the use of purgatives ; their 
use is best avoided for some time, or until convalescence is 
thoroughly established, enemata being used when requisite. 

Malarial Fever. 

In tropical countries malarial fever is apparently brought about 
by slight causes, especially in certain districts — a catarrhal cold, 
a slight exposure to the sun when not properly protected from 
it, a tedious journey, a slight injury, or an indiscretion in eating 
or drinking, appear to induce it. But it is known that these are 
not the absolute causes of the fever. Malarial fever is due to a 
parasite (the Plasmodium malarice), an amceba which lives in 
human blood and becomes encapsuled in the red blood cells. It 
is introduced into the body by means of water or the mosquito. 
There are several kinds of the parasite — one which gives rise to 
a tertian, another to a quartan, and others which cause fevers of 
a pernicious character, which occur chiefly in the spring or 
autumn. Such fevers are most common near the marshy banks 
of rivers, the bed of rivers, salt or fresh water marshes which 
are drying up, on lands which are subject to periodical inunda- 
tion, at the base of mountain ranges, in jungles, in arid, sandy, 
or barren districts which have a moist subsoil or red sand- 
stone rocks or ferruginous earths which retain moisture, and in 



444 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

volcanic and certain hill districts. Thus, in England they occur 
in the fens of Cambridge and Lincolnshire, along the banks of 
the Thames in Kent and Essex ; on the west coast and Campagna 
of Italy ; the flat districts of North Germany and Holland ; the 
west coast and many other places in Africa ; many places in 
Asia, both on the Continent and the numerous islands of the 
Indian Ocean ; and in India along the Ganges and the Indus. 
It occurs also in certain hill districts, as the i\.pennines and 
Pyrenees in Europe, in Peru and India ; but the factors are 
practically the same as in the marshes — a loose porous soil resting 
upon a firm basis of clay or rock, so that it retains the water. 
A combination of moisture, heat, and vegetation is necessary for 
the production of the miasm, which occurs very largely during the 
hot, moist seasons. Eemittent and irregular fevers are always 
present in malarial districts. In India the quotidian fever is most 
general from June to October, especially in those districts where 
the south-west monsoon brings the rain ; but the tertian fever is 
most common in the cold season. The specific cause of malaria is 
not merely wet and damp, for fevers sometimes disappear from a 
district during the height of the rainy season ; nor is it altogether 
due to decomposition of vegetable matter ; but a combination of 
damp, porous soil, rank vegetation, and absence of cultivation 
favour it extremely. Swampy and damp areas which are irri- 
gated, drained, and well cultivated, lose their malarial properties 
and no longer give off a miasm. But if such districts be again 
neglected and allowed to go out of cultivation, they revert to their 
former condition, and a bad form of fever may prevail. 

There is little doubt the mosquito is an important agent in 
spreading the disease in two ways : it may do it directly by 
sucking the blood of a fever patient, and afterwards biting a 
healthy individual, when some of the spores will be injected into 
him ; but it also acts as an agent in the development of the 
parasite, which is one of those forms of life which require to live 
in the body of two different animals to complete their growth. 
In the human being the plasmodium or amceba becomes encap- 
suled in the red blood cells, where it enlarges, and destroys the 
hemoglobin or converts it into black pigment. The development 
of the parasite is marked by its segmentation into about sixteen 
or twenty spores, which occupies two or three complete days. 



ACUTE ILLNESS 445 

The blood cell then bursts and sets free the spores and blood 
pigment in the plasma. The spores enter other red blood cells, 
and each crop is the cause of a fresh attack — tertian or quartan, 
according as two or three days axe occupied in their growth. 
Now, when a mosquito bites such a person, it draws into its 
stomach some of that person's blood, whose cells contain the 
am(x^,ba. In the stomach of the insect the amoeba becomes 
transformed into another form of the parasite, which is capable 
of sexual impregnation. One of two things happens : the insect 
visits tlie marshes, pools, or puddles of water and moist, damp 
places to lay its eggs. It often dies there, and the amoeba 
becomes liberated and lives in the water, whence its passage 
into the human body may occur in many ways. While the 
amoeba is in the body of the mosquito, an abundance of spores 
are formed by it, which, floating in the tissues and blood of the 
insect, reach its salivary glands, and are thence transmitted to 
human beings with each bite or puncture of the mosquito. 
Such spores enter the red blood cells as before, and give rise to 
the amoeboid bodies first mentioned, which undergo division by 
segmentation. 

The segmentation of the amoeba in the blood cells corresponds 
with the beginning of the paroxysm or ague. The symptoms are 
usually preceded for three to twelve days by headache, pain in 
the back and limbs, nausea, discomfort at the stomach, chills 
and flushes of heat, sometimes irritability or a feeling of elation, 
brightness, or unusual cheerfulness ; then the ague fit sets in, and 
consists of three stages, which succeed each other. 

In the cold stage the patient feels chilly, creeps near the fire, 
or walks in the sunshine. This frequently develops into a 
marked rigor, during which he curls himself up, shivers all over, 
las teeth chatter, his skin is blue and pinched, and looks like 
goose-skin. The surface of the body may actually feel cold, but 
a thermometer in the mouth or under the arm shows it to be 
above normal. It may last half to two hours, the temperature 
rising as it gradually passes into the next stage. The hot stage 
is marked by a sensation of heat and dryness of the skin over the 
whole body, flushed face, throbbing eyes and head, and tendency 
to delirium, which may last four to six hours, the temperature 
rising to 103^ or 105° or more. The sweating stage now sets in, 



446 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and is evidenced by beads of perspiration on the forehead, and 
a moisture gradually spreading over the body. The pains and 
discomfort are relieved, thirst is cheeked, temperature gradually 
falls, and there is a return to the normal condition, and, excepting 
weakness, he feels perfectly well. The same things may, how- 
ever, occur again the next day (quotidian), or in two days (tertian), 
or in three days (quartan), when it is called intermittent fever. 
The stages, however, are not always so well marked as that. The 
cold stage may be very short, and the hot stage last a day or 
several days, when it is called remittent fever, or tends to become 
a continued fever. There are variations of this also, as gastric 
remittent, when there is vomiting of watery fluid containing bile ; 
bilious remittent, with vomiting, purging, and jaundice of the 
eyes ; cerebral remittent, manifested by much delirium, con- 
vulsions, or coma about the third day, and distressing hiccough ; 
and typhoid remittent, when the disease runs a course similar to 
enteric fever. Black- water fever is a form of fever in which the 
urine is black, owing to its containing a quantity of colouring 
matter derived from the destruction of red blood cells by the 
parasite ; in some cases the kidneys are very badly congested, and 
the urine then actually contains blood. Other troubles are 
malarial diarrhcea or dysentery, malarial ulcers following pimples 
on the hips or lower limbs, affections of the liver and spleen, 
aniemia, and affections of the nervous system, as headaches, loss 
of memory, neuralgia, and paralysis. 

The prevention of the disease is an important matter, and 
depends upon living in a suitable position, protection of the 
house by wire gauze to windows, regular use of mosquito-nets, 
destroying mosquitoes or their eggs and larvae by pouring kerosene 
upon the surface of the pools and stagnant waters in which they 
breed, cultivating and draining the land, and planting upon it 
eucalyptus trees, especially the blue-gum, and trees of the genus 
Cinchonese, which are evergreen and readily flourish wherever 
malaria abounds. Attention to personal hygiene is likewise 
important, such as regular meals, eating proper food, especially 
fat, which feeds the cells that destroy disease germs, and avoiding 
an excess of alcohol, which destroys the microbe-eating cells. 
Coffee is believed to be the best beverage, and its regular use is 
highly spoken of as a preventive measure. Attempts at immuniza- 



ACUTE ILLNESS 447 

tion by arsenic, quinine, and other drugs have not been very 
satisfactory. 

Food and Hygiene. — At the earliest sign of fever, coldness, and 
shivering, the person should go to bed and be well covered with 
blankets and rugs, have hot-water bottles to the feet, sides, and 
abdomen, and be briskly rubbed under the bedclothes from the 
feet upwards. Warm drinks, such as hot tea and coffee, help to 
shorten the cold stage. Headache may be relieved by applying 
cold-water cloths or cold spirit lotions to the head, or leeches to 
the temples. Vomiting is common, and is beneficial if the tongue 
is foul. If it is very severe it may be checked by a mustard plaster 
over the pit of the stomach, by ice to suck, or a little brandy- 
and-soda or champagne ; by citric or tartaric acid, or lemon- 
water or lime-juice, which also help to allay thirst. If, on the 
other hand, the patient has not vomited, and the fever came on 
soon after a meal, it is proper to induce vomiting by tickling the 
throat with a feather, or giving an emetic, such as salt and water 
or mustard and water. It is also often necessary to give an 
aperient at once, for which purpose seidlitz-powders or a saline 
aperient water may be given, and repeated daily zmtil the evacua- 
tions are normal and healthy. Further purgation may induce 
diarrhoea or contribute to the production of gastric irritation. 

During the hot stage remedies which will promote perspira- 
tion and act upon the kidneys are proper ; at the same time the 
temperature may be lowered by frequently sponging the body 
with tepid water or vinegar and water. Food should consist of 
soup, beef-tea, hot milk, farinaceous materials ; and stimulants 
such as coffee, with wine or brandy if the depression is very 
great. Delirium or low muttering is quite common, and need not 
occasion alarm. It is best met by cold applications to the head 
and frequent bodily sponging, with a blister or mustard plaster at 
the back of the neck, or a few leeches behind the ears. If, how- 
ever, there are convulsions, he should be put into a warm bath 
of about 100° F., gradually cooled by addition of water, at the 
same time applying cold to the head. If there is unconscious- 
ness, or he snores and cannot be roused by any means, and the 
face is flushed, it is most likely that there is some pressure upon 
the brain, by haemorrhage or otherwise, and this view will be 
favoured if we are quite sure that the unconsciousness is not due 



448 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

to opium or alcohol. We must then apply ice to the head, 
mustard plasters to the soles of the feet and calves of the legs, 
and raise the end of the bed so that the upper part of the body 
is elevated, and the return of blood from the head is favoured. 
Persistent unconsciousness may necessitate the use of the catheter 
to draw off the urine, and feeding by the bowels with beef-tea or 
raw egg and milk. As soon as the intermission begins, quinine, 
alone or with salts, will be administered in two- or three-hourly 
doses until the next exacerbation is expected, which is sometimes 
delayed or checked by hot coffee or hot water and spirits. 

In the remittent form, the method of procedure is very similar 
to the foregoing, the object being to produce warmth in the cold 
stage, and perspiration or evaporation from the body in the hot 
stage. In the typhoid form, the feeding and nursing should be 
the same as in enteric. 

In black-water fever the patient should be kept warm and 
comfortable ; then, with proper drugs, he may be considered as 
progressing favourably so long as the urine is free ; but if this is 
not free, or is suppressed owing to congestion of the kidneys, it 
will be absolutely necessary to relieve them of their congestion 
by acting powerfully upon the skin. This may be done by hot 
packs, by hot fomentations of mustard over the loins, by vapour 
or hot-air baths (see ' Acute Bright's Disease '). Hot mustard 
baths are useful ; the patient sits with his feet and legs up to his 
thighs in hot water and mustard for half an hour at a time, the 
body and bath being enveloped with blankets, so that he is well 
steamed. The hands and head are kept cool by frequent bathing 
or cold sponging ; and in the intervals between the bath he is 
wrapped in hot packs, or hot fomentations are put across his 
loins. The food should consist of milk, which will not irritate 
the kidneys, and large quantities of barley-water or oatmeal- 
water, which will soothe them and help to clear them. A little 
arrowroot and milk, or banana flour and milk, or egg-flip is also 
suitable, but no beef-tea or other animal broth can be allowed 
until the urine becomes clear, limpid, and normal, when we may 
also add chicken broth, milk pudding, and later on fish and fowl. 
Sudden syncope occurring in any of these forms of fever, as 
shown by collapse, thready pulse, coldness of skin, and sunken 
features, requires heat to the body, hot drinks and stimulants. 



ACUTE ILLNESS 449 

Complications occurring in the chest, or abscess of the liver, may 
require poultices and other suitable treatment. 

The effects of malaria require to be mentioned. Malarial 
diarrhoea produces a sense of relief instead of suffering, and it 
may occur in place of an attack of fever — in fact, the poison is 
being thrown off by the bowel ; therefore do not give astringents 
unless the purging be excessive, say more than seven or eight 
movements a day, or it lasts a long time ; but give a food con- 
sisting chiefly of milk — cornflour, arrowroot, banana flour, other 
tine meal, white of eggs, isinglass jelly, milk jelly, blancmange. 
If there is much pain, poultices to the abdomen will give relief. 

Malarial dysentery is similar to true dysentery, only it is due 
to malarial poison affecting the bowel and causing discharges of 
blood and mucus ; it would be unwise to stop it at once, because 
Nature is relieving herself this way. Keep up the strength by 
giving milk and white of eggs, milk and lime-water, arrowroot, 
cornflour, sago, tapioca, rice milk, and chicken broth, all to be 
given warm. 

Malarial headache, insomnia, neuralgia, enlarged spleen, 
require quinine and nourishing food ; and malarial cachexia or 
anaemia necessitates a change to another locality, or perhaps a 
long sea voyage. 

Refehences : ^ Ewald, Zeit. fiir Diatet. unci Physikal Therapie. ^ Pro- 
ceedings Anier. Physiol. Soc, December, 1899. ^ Brace's 'Materia Medica and 
Therapeutics.' "• Foster's 'Physiology.' ^ Taylor's 'Practice of Medicine.' 
" Jour. State Med., 1900 to 1905. ^ Kerr Cross, 'Health in Africa.' » Mori, 
Centralb. fiir Bakt., June 10, 1901. ^ Rauzier, Muntpellier Med., July 13, 1902. 



CHAPTEE XXI 
DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH. 

Indigestion, or dyspepsia, is an imperfect solution of the food by 
the gastric secretions, attended by pain or discomfort, when its 
origin is independent of changes in the structure of that organ ; 
it is the result of eating indigestible food, improper mastication, 
hurried eating, or some abnormal condition of the gastric secretion, 

29 



450 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

or of the motility of the organ. It is Hkewise a necessary result 
of gastritis, gastric catarrh, and other organic affections of the 
stomach. 

Acute indigestion, for example, occurs when a healthy individual 
takes a larger meal than his stomach can bear, or consumes sub- 
stances which are of an indigestible nature, or which his stomach 
is unable to digest owing to bodily exhaustion. In such an 
instance, the offending substance causes pain at the pit of the 
stomach, or perhaps some disturbance of the heart, and restless- 
ness ; if the patient sleeps, he may have troublesome dreams, 
and when he awakes will probably have an unpleasant taste in 
his mouth, disinclination for food, and a headache. In other 
persons the indigestible substance causes vomiting, which relieves 
the symptoms by removing the offending material ; the vomiting 
may, however, last for some hours, and be attended by regurgi- 
tation of bile and followed by purging. Sometimes the food 
eaten induces spasm or cramp at the stomach. When the paiu 
is severe and the cause is obvious, an emetic is the proper 
remedy. The stomach should rest from food until the distressing 
symptoms have subsided, when a light meal of milk and soda- 
water, milk pudding, or bread-and-butter with a cup of tea, may 
be taken ; then light fish or chicken may be eaten before returning 
to the ordinary diet. 

Chronic indigestion is caused by a continuance of improper 
food, indigestible food, such as coarse meat, salted or dried meat, 
pork, veal, game, hashed meat, rich or highly-seasoned food, 
stringy or fibrous vegetables, hard fruit or nuts ; by an excessive 
consumption of food, hurried eating, or imperfect mastication. 
All organic affections of the stomach are also causes of indigestion ; 
but apart from these, there may be an excess or deficiency of 
hydrochloric acid, pepsin, or mucus. Atony of the stomach, 
constipation, general illness, and all causes of low vitality, also 
affect the gastric secretion and motility. 

Dyspepsia and functional derangement of the stomach are 
very common in tropical and subtropical countries ; it may then 
be of a simple form, such as is easily relieved by ordinary 
medicines and careful dieting ; or it is due to defective secretion, 
malassimilation, and consequent debility of the nervous and 
muscular systems, and may need a change of air or climate to 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 451 

prevent the development of tropical cachexia. Many individuals 
with feeble digestive power are simply martyrs to indigestion so 
long as they remain in a hot climate. The cachexy, referred to 
as being due to a tropical climate, is brought about by loss of 
appetite, diseases of the stomach, liver, and spleen, a tendency to 
scurvy, anaemia, and malaria, prolonged heat, excessive moisture, 
profuse perspiration, sleepless nights, and sudden chills. These 
conditions produce debility, accompanied by impaired digestion, 
palpitation, a pale, bloated, and sallow countenance, a pearly 
lustre of the eyes, wasting of the body or fat flabbiness, skin 
eruptions or dryness and roughness of the skin, aching of the 
limbs, disinclination for exertion, mental depression or irritability, 
and indifference to the future.^ - 

The treatment of functional derangement of the stomach 
depends somewhat upon the conditions which are associated with 
it. Although subjective symptoms are not to be despised, it is 
sometimes necessary to make a physical examination of the 
stomach and its contents. The motility of the organ can be 
ascertained by the use of Eiegel's test-meal, which may consist 
of definite quantities — say, 100 c.c. of soup, 60 grammes of beef 
steak, and 50 grammes of white bread. This should wholly dis- 
appear from the stomach in five hours, and leave no trace in the 
liquid which can be drawn off at this time with a stomach tube; 
and the amount of food which can be drawn off five hours after such 
a meal may be taken as a measure of the deficient power in the 
stomach to discharge its contents into the bowels. The acidity of 
the stomach is likewise determined by the use of the Boas-Ewald 
test-meal, taking for breakfast a dry bread roll and ^ pint of tea 
or a glass of water, and drawing off the contents one hour after, 
when digestion is at its height. The total acidity is determined 
by its neutralization with an alkali ; free hydrochloric acid is tested 
for, and likewise lactic, butyric, acetic, or other organic acids. 

It is found by such examinations that in atony of the stomach 
the power to discharge the meal into the intestine in a proper 
time is defective, and that there is frequently a deficiency in the 
proportion of hydrochloric acid, which is called hypochlorhydria. 
In other conditions of the stomach there is an excess of this 
acid, and the condition is then called hyperchlorhydria ; or an 
abundance of organic acid is found, which gives rise to organic 

29—2 



452 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

acidity. Each of these is sometimes described as the actual 
functional derangement of the stomach. 

Hypochiorhydria — that is, too scanty or too poor a quality of 
gastric juice — is very common in the atonic dyspepsia of elderly 
persons, partly from lack of material for its formation and partly 
from diminished excitability of the mucous membrane. Deficiency 
in the muscular tone of the organ may lead to imperfect mixture 
of the food and secretion, with consequent indigestion. It also 
occurs in atony of the stomach in other individuals, and is fre- 
quently associated with angemia, chlorosis, and chronic gastric 
catarrh. The symptoms are similar to those of gastric catarrh, 
which may complicate it ; the appetite is poor, there is little pain 
after food, a good deal of fulness from flatulent distension, and 
eructation of sour, rancid liquid or gas, and the contents of the 
stomach often contain lactic and acetic acids or yeast fungus ; 
there may be vomiting of food which is scarcely digested at all, 
and diarrhoea or constipation. The tongue is usually clean, taste 
unchanged, and breath free from smell ; but the tongue may be 
flabby, the taste bitter, and the breath foul. 

In hyperchlorhydria the gastric juice is abnormally strong, and 
it is usually accompanied by dyspeptic symptoms ; it is often a 
primary disease, and occurs in about half the people between 
twenty and forty years of age who have dyspepsia ; it is more 
common in men than women, and especially in those who smoke 
or drink to excess. When it exists, starch is digested slowly and 
meat quickly ; starchy foods increase the pain, but meat gives 
temporary relief. The specific characters of hyperchlorhydria 
are an abundance of gastric juice, having a high percentage of 
acidity at the height of digestion, due to free hydrochloric acid ; 
there is little mucus usually, the appetite is not impaired, and 
there is perfect comfort during a meal and for some time after 
it. But in an hour or two a feeling of discomfort arises, with 
heartburn, more or less pain, eructations of gas, and water- 
brash ; there may be headache, giddiness, or nausea, and con- 
stipation is not uncommon. The motility of the stomach is not 
interfered with ; a small meal disajjpears in two and a half or 
three hours, and a large one in five or six. When the stomach is 
empty there is freedom from discomfort.^ 

Organic acidity occurs in many cases of dyspepsia, and is some- 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 453 

times a primary disease ; its origin is simple when the acidity is 
due to the transitory presence of acids in the food, as vinegar, 
pickles, salads, cider, and other acid drinks ; fungoid when it is 
due to the existence in the stomach of penicillium, aspergillus, 
and other fungi ; or it may be bacterial. The acids mostly 
developed are acetic, lactic, carbonic, and butyric ; their presence 
in quantity causes heartburn, water-brash, regurgitation of food, 
wind, flatulent distension of the stomach, cramp, spasms, palpita- 
tion of the heart, shortness of breath, and sometimes vomiting, 
When fungi are the cause of the trouble, the vomit may be red or 
green, which gives it the appearance of blood or bile.^ 

In the treatment of all functional derangements of the stomach 
the teeth must receive attention and all defects must be made 
good ; mastication must be slowly and carefully performed ; there 
should be a short rest before meals and a longer rest after them ; 
and proper intervals must be observed : they should not be too 
near. Most persons who suffer from these ailments require five 
or six hours for the complete digestion of a good meal, consisting 
of the ordinary solids, and fully six hours is required by the aged 
and invalids. The consideration of the quality of the food is of 
vital importance. If the indigestion is very severe the treatment 
should be begun by keeping the patient upon milk diluted with an 
alkaline or gaseous water, or peptonized milk, milk gruel, or other 
farinaceous foods, soups, jellies, and custard. If less severe, or 
while attention is being given to defective teeth, we should allow 
only such foods as require little mastication, as the crumb of 
stale bread, dry toast, biscuits, such as cracknel or others which 
readily break down to a powder in the mouth, soup, broth, puree, 
consomme,* pounded or scraped meat, light fish, mashed potato, 
and milk puddings. 

In cases where the stomach is unable to digest proteids, owing 
to deficiency of the gastric juice or of its acid or ferments, 
proteids should, for a short time, be given in a prepared form, 
such as casein preparations, peptone, or semi-digested albumin. 
The free use of salt, by helping to form hydrochloric acid and 
check fermentative processes, is useful. The starches and other 

* Consornm6 consists of meat and vegetables boiled together for a long time, 
until the whole is reduced to a pulp or jelly of moderate consistence ; for some 
persons it is very necessary, even after being so reduced, to pass it through a 
fine sieve to remove indigestible fibrous substances. 



454 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

carbohydrates are usually well digested. On the other hand, if 
there be hyperacidity the proteids are exceedingly well digested, 
but carbohydrates are feebly acted upon, so that malted food and 
others containing maltose and dextrin are for a time serviceable.^ 
Artificially digested foods should not be used for a long period, 
but only while the stomach is permitted time to recover its tone 
and function in a certain degree. In all ordinary cases we may 
allow : Bread which is good and stale. New bread should never be 
eaten : it forms tough masses, like putty, in the mouth, which 
resist the action of the digestive secretions ; good stale bread is 
light and porous, crumbles easily in the fingers, and does not 
form coherent masses when chewing it. Clear, thin soup of beef, 
mutton, veal, chicken, turtle or clam, and puree or consomme, 
are suitable. Light fish may be allowed, as sole, plaice, haddock, 
whiting, brill, turbot, flounder, chad, perch, or bass ; heavy kinds 
of fish, as salmon, mackerel, hake, eel, conger-eel, etc., should be 
avoided ; it may be eaten with cold butter or lemon juice, in 
preference to rich sauces. Tripe and sweet-bread, being easily 
digested, are suitable ; chicken, pheasant, grouse, rabbit, are more 
suitable for these persons than the dark flesh of hares, venison, 
and other game. Mutton is better than beef, while pork and veal 
should be rejected. When eating any kind of fleshy food, no matter 
what its character, it is necessary that the dyspeptic person 
should remove all skin and every particle of gristle, because it is 
impossible for a weak stomach to digest such material, and their 
presence in it causes much pain and increases the ailment. 
Potatoes are better when thoroughly mashed ; and vegetables, 
like cabbage, savoy, kale, brussels sprouts, can only be allowed 
when reduced to a puree, after cooking, by rubbing them through 
a hair sieve. Cauliflower, spinach, vegetable marrow, squash, 
kidney beans, and green peas, may be eaten in the ordinary way 
when they are tender and well cooked. The relative duration of 
time required for the digestion of starch varies with its source. 
Grierson^ has shown that the root starches are more quickly 
digested than those derived from cereals ; thus, arrowroot and 
potato starch are converted into sugar and digested in about ten 
minutes, tapioca in thirty minutes, and oatmeal in eighty minutes, 
whereas rice, maize, and wheat flour require two hours for their 
conversion and complete digestion, from which we gather that 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 455 

arrowroot, tous-les-mois, potato, and tapioca are the best sources 
of carbohydrate for a weak stomach. Oatmeal and wheat flour are 
rendered more easily digested by long cooking, whereby the starch 
granules are thoroughly softened and some of them converted 
into dextrin. Dessert may consist of junket, jelly, custard, 
blancmange, egg-snow, milk puddings, and well-cooked fruit, 
such as apples, plums, and prunes. 

What to Avoid. — All kinds of rich food, inasmuch as they will 
cause indigestion, should be scrupulously avoided : rich soup, 
gravy, or sauce ; veal, pork, sausage, goose, duck, fried eggs, fried 
fish, and other fried foods ; forcemeat ; liver, kidneys, brain ; hot 
buttered toast, crumpets, muffins, pastry, boiled puddings, cakes ; 
pickled and salted meat; crab, lobster, shell-fish; cheese; sweetened 
dishes, jam, and confectionery. Pastry, buttered toast, and greasj' 
food, like pork or duck, are indigestible because the fat is so 
intimately blended with the fibres of the meat and the flour in 
the pastry or cake that the gastric juice cannot act upon the 
albuminoid materials until the fat has been removed ; fat is not 
digested in the stomach, but only in the intestines whence these 
foods must pass before they are digested, unless they remain in 
the stomach a sufficient length of time for the complete removal 
of the fat which invests them, during which time pain, acidity, 
and other distressing symptoms occur. Salted or dried meat, like 
ham or bacon, is less easily digested than ordinary fresh meat. 
Dyspeptics should not eat uncooked vegetables, salads, pickles, 
fruit, or nuts ; nor fibrous vegetables, like cabbage, savoy, kale, 
turnips, carrots, parsnips, yam, sweet potatoes, or manioc, unless 
previously reduced to a puree by passing them through a fine 
sieve. When acid fermentation is a marked feature, by which 
is meant the production of lactic^ acetic, carbonic, or butyric 
acids, it is proper to diminish the amount of carbohydrate food 
for a time, and limit the dietary to milk, fish, chicken, tender 
meat, a little dry toast, and spinach or vegetable marrow, which 
foods can, however, be varied in many ways. Hyperchlorhydria 
is also sometimes treated by forbidding starchy foods (their diges- 
tion being interfered with, because the excess of acid prevents the 
conversion of starch to sugar), and giving only proteid foods ; 
other practitioners forbid meat because it increases the gastric 
secretion, and allow only starchy foods and milk. But in all cases 



456 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of acid dyspepsia, whether of organic acidity or hyperchlorhydria, 
the simplest diet is the best, and we may safely allow boiled or 
poached eggs, bread-and-butter, tender meat or poultry, light 
kinds of fish, easily digested vegetables, and milk puddings. 
Butter checks the secretion of gastric juice, and helps in the 
nutrition of the body.'^ Dyspeptics of all kinds should eat only 
three meals a day, and at long intervals — breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner ; the last meal should be two and a half or three hours 
before going to bed. The patient should retire to bed early, and 
lie upon the right side, to assist the stomach in emptying its con- 
tents into the intestines. It is incorrect to drink tea with a meal 
containing meat, as the albuminoids are hardened by the tannin, 
and digestion is thereby hindered. Excess of tea, coffee, alcohol, 
and tobacco must be avoided. It is better not to drink anything 
with the meal ; but a good draught of hot water half an hour 
before the meal dilutes and washes away the remains of the 
previous one, and refreshes and prepares the stomach for the next. 
The soup, which is taken at the beginning of dinner or lunch, 
when in small quantity, serves as a useful stimulant to digestion ; 
and in atonic dyspepsia a small quantity of sound wine or well- 
diluted spirit at the close of the meal serves the same purpose. 
A cup of tea, coffee, or hot water, taken three or four hours after 
a meal, will hasten the final stages of digestion; but if food be 
taken with it it will prove a hindrance rather than a help. 
Tobacco is a well-known cause of indigestion, and the amount 
should be limited to the consumption of 2 ounces of mild tobacco 
a week, smoked in a pipe. 

The use, and especially the abuse, of artificial digestants should 
be discouraged ; the stomach is to be properly treated, and only 
given such work as it can perform without their aid. There is 
sometimes a deficiency in the quantity or quality of the saliva in 
dyspepsia, and the ferment may be absent ; when such is known 
to be the case preparations of malt, given before or about two 
hours after a meal, will be a valuable assistance in the digestion 
of farinaceous or starchy foods. Sialagogues may be given to 
increase the secretion of saliva, as horse-radish sauce, ginger, 
pepper, and other aromatics. Salivary digestion is interfered 
with by taking vinegar, pickles, mint sauce, and acid wines, such 
as sherry or claret, with the food, and tea checks the secretion to 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 457 

some extent. Starch digestion goes on in the stomach so long as 
free hydrochloric acid is absent ; for this reason bread and similar 
articles are digested more readily when taken along with meat or 
other proteid which the acid may attack. 

The increased consumption of cane-sugar in many forms is one 
cause of the digestive troubles of the present age. ' Sugar ' is 
converted in the stomach into glucose (maltose) by the gastric 
juice acting in the presence of mucin. But the frequent presence 
of sugar in the stomach causes a disproportionate increase of the 
secretion of mucus ; the latter is often so profuse as to envelop 
the individual portions of food and prevent the gastric juice from 
getting to them, to the hindrance of proteid digestion. Further- 
more, the experiments of Aitchison Robertson ^ prove that the 
power of the stomach to convert cane-sugar to glucose is very 
much diminished in chronic gastric troubles ; that cane-sugar 
causes pain in the stomach, and heartburn, flatulence, or vomiting, 
when taken in solution after washing out the organ ; but solu- 
tions of invert-sugar do not cause any discomfort. This evidence 
shows that jam, marmalade, and ordinary sweetened dishes 
should be avoided by dyspeptics, because they will increase their 
trouble ; but honey, treacle, golden syrup, and other substances 
containing invert-sugar in large proportion do not cause pain or 
increase dyspepsia ; they are rapidly absorbed, and may be used 
by dyspeptics of all kinds, and are of especial use for children in 
the nursery. 

When persons have been accustomed to the free use of spices, 
condiments, or other stimulants, by which the mucous membrane 
has been excited, their use must not be stopped too suddenly. The 
result would be a very scanty secretion of gastric juice, because 
the ordinary foods are not then a sufficient stimulus to the secre- 
tion of an adequate supply of the digestive fluid in an organ which 
has become accustomed to such powerful stimulation ; conse- 
quently, part of the food would remain undigested, and the 
symptoms of atony with hypochlorhydria develop. On the 
other hand, if the use of strong irritants, such as pepper, cayenne, 
horse-radish, pickles, and curries, be continued, the digestion and 
nutrition will go on all right for a time, but chronic gastric catarrh 
will probably follow. We cannot, therefore, recommend the con- 
tinued use of spices and condiments in undue quantity, nor to 



458 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

stop their use suddenly ; either course would probably end in 
a breakdown of gastric digestion. The bad habit, for such it 
is, as much as excessive drinking or smoking, must be broken 
gradually. 

Lavage, or washing out the stomach, is sometimes very bene- 
licial ; it is best done at night on going to bed. By washing out 
the cavity and removing from it all remains of food we can give 
the stomach eight or ten hours of complete rest. Lavage of the 
fasting stomach is also useful ; it refreshes it, clears away mucus, 
washes the mucous membrane, and prepares it for the day's work. 
A cold compress worn over the stomach and fastened on with 
a flannel bandage through the night is also useful ; when it is 
removed in the morning the chest, abdomen, and back should be 
sponged with cold water, and briskly rubbed with a rough towel. 

It is necessary for the invalid to give up sedentary habits or 
occupations, and take exercise in the open air daily; to remove 
from town to country or seaside, and lead a perfectly regular life. 
h tour in Scotland, the Tyrol, Switzerland, or other mountainous 
region, works wonders. The tropical resident may need a change 
of climate or a long sea voyage, and a pure mountain air is just 
what is needed by the person with tropical cachexy ; but even 
under the best conditions it may take months or years for him to 
recover health and vigour. 

A course of the mineral waters at Bath, Leamington, Malvern, 
or Harrogate, in England ; at Carlsbad, Marienbad, Kissingen, 
or Tarasp, on the Continent ; at Hot Springs, Arkansas, at 
Bethesda, and similar sources of water in the United States, 
would be valuable by promoting the abdominal circulation, 
stimulating the glands of the stomach, intestines, and the liver, 
by washing the mucous membrane, checking fermentation, and 
removing fungoid and bacterial growths, and eliminating the 
products of imperfect digestion, which so often cause headaches, 
giddiness, and hypochondria in chronic dyspepsia.^ A course of 
baths of these mineral waters, combined with massage, douching, 
galvanism, change of climate, and exercise in the open air, are 
important factors in spa treatment. 

The digestive troubles of infants and young children are chiefly 
due to feeding them with substances of improper composition, 
an abnormal quantity of food, irregular feeding, improper tem- 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 459 

perature at which the material is giver, or micro-organisms in it. 
Improper feeding is responsible for indigestion, catarrh of the 
stomach and bowels, gastric dilatation, colic, and vomiting. 
Colic is a distressing symptom, often of gastric origin or due to 
flatulence from the generation of gases by fermentation of the 
food ; in many instances, also, it is due to the presence of 
tenacious mucus, which interferes with digestion and the exit 
of food from the stomach. Micro-organisms in food act by 
directly irritating the mucous membrane, or inducing fermentative 
changes, thereby causing many attacks of acute or chronic 
catarrh, indigestion, cholera, diarrhoea, colic, and vomiting. 
These troubles can only be prevented by great care in the pre- 
paration of food, by giving it in proper quantity and quality, and 
by other hygienic treatment (see also ' Feeding of Infants ' and 
' Acute Gastric Catarrh '). 



Atony and Dilatation of the Stomach. 

The sufferer from atony and dilatation, in addition to the 
symptoms of indigestion, has usually a worn and anxious appear- 
ance, and is thin and pale. Weakening of the muscular tissues of 
the stomach and chronic gastric catarrh are factors in the pro- 
duction of the disease. It may follow long-continued indigestion, 
excessive use of tobacco, tea, coffee, or other stimulant, or a long 
illness, such as the infectious diseases, anaemia, chlorosis, pro- 
longed suckling in women, prolonged overwork, insomnia, 
diseases of the nervous system, or other diseases which interfere 
with the nutrition of the organ. Excessive eating and drinking 
are causes of dilatation, and so is excessive flatulence when the 
contractile power of the organ has been weakened by disease. 
Its origin may, however, be due to spasm of the pyloric valve 
from chronic irritation of the stomach, to atony of the muscular 
walls,^" to obstruction by a stricture, ulcer, or cancer of the 
pylorus, or the presence of foreign bodies, such as masses of hair 
or a plumstone; pressure from without may also cause it, as 
gall-stones, bands, and adhesions, or displacement of the kidney. 

The patient suffers pain and discomfort from the gradual 
accumulation of food and secretion for several days in the 
dilated and weakened organ, which is temporarily relieved by 



460 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

vomiting. The manner of vomiting is characteristic of the 
disease, the contents of the stomach being ' pumped up ' without 
feeling of nausea. The vomited matters are foul, fermented, and 
contain undigested food eaten days before, together with various 
bacterial and fungoid forms which ferment these materials. 
Under these conditions the suiferer loses flesh and colour, is 
troubled with thirst and constipation, and his mind is depressed. 
The abdominal wall bulges over the pit of the stomach, the 
movements of the stomach are visible to the naked eye, and 
splashing may be produced. By various means the outline and 
extent of the dilated organs can be ascertained. Gastroptosis, 
or displacement of the stomach, occurs in some cases, with im- 
paired mobility, gastro-enteric catarrh, and nervous complica- 
tions ; the symptoms which indicate it are malnutrition, gastric 
fermentation, diminution in the proportion of hydrochloric acid, 
a sense of dragging or absence of support in the abdomen, and 
the confirmation of its displacement by inflating or distending 
the organ with gas. 

Treatment. — Simple atonic dilatation gets well if properly 
treated ; obstructive dilatation may be due to causes removable 
by operation. There is no treatment so beneficial as gastric 
lavage, or washing out the organ ; by this means we can remove 
decomposing food and check the putrid fermentation and conse- 
quent generation of gases which expand the weakened organ. 
By it we can cleanse and soothe the irritated mucous membrane, 
and assist in strengthening the muscular walls. Lavage consists 
simply of emptying and washing out the stomach with pure 
water, natural mineral water, or a solution of one of the dis- 
infectants. It was introduced by Kussmaul, who obtained striking 
results from its use. It gives relief in every case, and where 
atony or gastric catarrh plays a large part in the process — that 
is, in simple unobstructive dilatation — this method of treatment, 
combined with tonics and careful arrangement of the diet, will 
effectually cure it. The operation may be performed by a stomach 
pump or by means of a simple indiarubber tube ; the latter is most 
often used, and consists of about 4^ feet of indiarubber tubing, 
with a funnel attached to one end. In a healthy condition of 
the stomach 24 inches of tubing is required to reach the lower 
border of the stomach without doubling, and this may be 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 461 

increased by several inches in the dilated organ; as much or 
more tubing should remain outside the mouth as passes through 
it, otherwise the tube will not act as a siphon, which it is in- 
tended to do. The tube is carefully passed over the tongue and 
between the fauces without touching them ; when it reaches the 
back of the pharynx it will bend, and each push makes it descend 
further, which is assisted by bending the head slightly on the 
chest. A little care is required to guide it over the glottis, but 
when that is passed all fear of entering ' the wrong passage ' is 
over. It must be gently pushed down, because rough usage 
irritates the gullet. When the tube is in the stomach the funnel 
should be raised to a level with or above the head, and the 
lotion poured down it ; the funnel is then inverted, and lowered 
to allow the liquid to run out into a vessel placed to receive it. 
Stomach tubes having a ball similar to that of a Higginson's 
enema are very handy. The process of washing out is repeated 
until the solution comes back colourless from the stomach, and 
free from food and mucus, after which a pint of liquid is poured 
in and allowed to remain. Many disinfecting or alkaline lotions 
are used for this purpose, as well as alkaline waters — e.g., those 
of Vichy, Carlsbad, Marienbad, Saratoga- Vichy, and Hot Springs. 
Opinions differ as to the best time of performing lavage ; some 
practitioners urge tha,t it should be performed at bedtime each 
night, so that the stomach may be freed from all food and given 
a period of eight or ten hours' complete rest and freedom from 
irritation ; others regard early morning or half an hour before 
the largest meal as the best time, because washing out the organ 
at this period cleanses and refreshes the mucous membrane, 
and prepares it for the work it has to perform. Both opinions 
have some physiological support, but when lavage is performed 
only once a day, bedtime is perhaps the most satisfactory period 
for its performance. 

Lavage is contraindicated when it causes much distress, 
nausea, or vomiting : in cases of great debility, recent haimorrhage 
from the stomach, cancer of the oisophagus or of the cardiac 
extremity, or aneurism of the aorta. Usually the first lavage 
gives such relief to patients that instead of fearing they ask for 
it ; some patients learn to introduce the tube for themselves. 
After a few washings the stomach often regains the power of pro- 



462 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

pelling its contents into the bowels, with concurrent relief of 
constipation and increased flow of urine. 

Constipation must in the meantime be corrected by alkaline 
aperient waters ; the best plan is to take a wineglassful every 
hour of Carlsbad, Friedrichshall, or Condal water, in the morning 
fasting until it causes an evacuation of the bowels ; by this means 
the stomach also is stimulated and strengthened. 

Massage of the abdomen, particularly of the stomach, is useful ; 
it rouses muscular tone and encourages motility, whereby the 
chyme is passed into the duodenum. Electricity is likewise use- 
ful, and has similar effects. 

The food is exceedingly important. The meals should be few 
and far apart, highly nutritious, of small bulk, and in some 
cases in a state of fine subdivision. Starchy and saccharine 
foods should be restricted or altogether prohibited, to prevent 
fermentation. The supply of liquids must also be restricted. 
Hot water should be drunk half an hour before each meal ; it 
cleanses the stomach, prepares it for the reception of the food, 
and lessens the desire for drinking at meal-times. A single 
teacupful of weak tea, hot water, milk and water, or a little 
diluted spirits may be taken during or at the close of the meal ; 
but if any more liquid is required it should be given by rectal 
injection. There should be only three meals a day : breakfast at 
8 a.m., lunch at 2 p.m., and dinner at 8 p.m., allowing six hours 
between each meal. Many authorities consider it best to take 
animal and vegetable food separately, one meal consisting of 
meat, another of carbohydrate and puree of vegetables. The 
following dietary may be allowed in most cases : 

Breakfast. — ^Fish, as sole, plaice, whiting, haddock, brill, or 
turbot, with lemon juice ; eggs, poached or lightly boiled ; thin 
dry toast, 1 ounce ; one teacupful of milk and hot water, or 
peptonized milk, sipped slowly throughout the meal or at its 
close. 

Luncheon. — Boiled rice, macaroni, sago, or tapioca pudding, 
about 4 ounces, with fruit, jelly, or cream ; puree of fresh vege- 
tables, spinach or vegetable marrow, with gravy. No meat. At 
the close of the meal 4 ounces of pure water, good red wine 
diluted with water, or spirit and water. 

Dinner. — Tender lean mutton, beef, chicken, or white game^ 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 463 

4 ounces ; fish of any light kind ; puree of potato, 1 ounce ; stale 
bread or dry toast, 1 ounce ; 4 ounces of liquid at the end of the 
meal, as at lunch. 

If this amount of nutriment appears to be insufficient, nutrient 
enemata, consisting of two raw eggs beaten up with a little salt, 
and 8 or 10 ounces of milk, or similar 'feeds,' may be given twice 
daily ; they are best injected through a long tube passed as high 
as it will go without doubling, the patient being in the knee- 
elbow position. 

The use of digestive ferments in the treatment must be care- 
fully considered, for it is known that when artificially-prepared 
foods are taken they are not absorbed without further change. 
Artificial digestion, whether by means of pepsin and hydrochloric 
acid or any other method, is quite different from the natural 
process; and it has been proved by Voit, Cohn, and others, that 
peptonized preparations when taken into the stomach are not 
absorbed immediately and without further change, and other 
observers assert that they cause diarrhoea. Artificial digestion 
brings about decomposition of substances which are of the highest 
importance to metabolism. 

The patient should be forbidden to take butter, sugar, sauces, 
condiments of all kinds, raw vegetables or fruit, and such cooked 
vegetables as would produce flatus. As well as the other things 
forbidden in dyspepsia {q.v.\ starchy foods should only be eaten 
in small quantity, and are best taken alone ; stale bread or 
dry toast may be allowed to the extent of 2 ounces a day. Tea, 
colfee, and cocoa should be prohibited in the early part of the 
treatment ; but when recovery is begun, a small teacupful without 
sugar may be taken at the end of a meal. 

The patient should be warmly clad, and wear a flannel bandage 
around the abdomen. Kussmaul recommends that a pad should 
be worn over the pit of the stomach. He should, when in bed, 
lie upon the right side, to encourage the escape of chyme from the 
stomach. In some cases it is advisable to keep the patient in 
bed during the early part of the treatment, so as to prevent 
wasting of the tissues and to maintain nutritive equilibrium. 
Alkaline waters, hydrotherapy, electricity, and massage are 
useful. 



464 FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Acute Gastric Catarrh. 



Normal digestion is attended by a temporary congestion of the 
mucous lining of the stomach, and an abundant secretion of 
mucus is a part of the physiological process ; this, which is 
analogous to catarrh of other mucous membranes, occurs after 
every meal, and subsides without trouble and usually without 
our cognizance. A morbid increase of this condition is, however, 
liable to occur under many circumstances ; the normal rush of 
blood is then transformed into a condition of inflammation, the 
mucous membrane becomes swollen and relaxed, and its surface 
covered with a layer of tough mucus ; this constitutes acute 
gastric catarrh or acute catarrhal gastritis. * It occurs readily in 
debilitated and badly-nourished persons and puny children ; a 
slight error of diet in such persons may cause it. It also arises 
from a slight excess of drink in persons not accustomed to it, 
from an excess of food, fat meat, rich gravy, sauces, or highly- 
seasoned dishes; it is also caused by tainted meat, sour milk, new 
beer, pickles, spices, ices, cold drinks taken by an overheated 
person, or catching cold. In many feverish conditions less gastric 
juice is secreted, and a distressing catarrh may result from a con- 
tinuance of the ordinary diet or other unsuitable food. 

Infants are very liable to gastric catarrh, and only extreme 
care in feeding can prevent it. I have stated in a former 
chapter that the milk of the mother or a healthy nurse is by 
far the most suitable food, but, failing that, good cow's milk 
is the best substitute ; it should be obtained fresh every 
morning and night as soon as possible after milking, instead 
of after it has been carted about for several hours, and it is 
better to boil it {sterilize it) as soon as it arrives, and keep it in 
a covered vessel. The strength- of the food must depend on the 
child's age : for the first three months it should consist of 1 part 
of pure milk and 2 parts of boiled water with a little sugar ; from 
three to six months the mixture should contain equal parts ; from 
six to nine months it may consist of two-thirds of milk and one- 
third of water, after which age the milk may be given without 
dilution. The intervals of feeding must necessarily vary with the 
age of the infant and quantity of the food taken. During the first 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 465 

week or two only two or three tablespoonfuls can be taken a,t a 
meal, and the infant should be fed every hour and a half or two 
hours ; but as more and stronger food is taken the intervals may 
be gradually increased to three or four hours (see * Infant Feeding'). 
Catarrh of the stomach is often caused by errors in diet ; the 
injurious material passes into the bowels, gives rise to colicky 
pains and flatus, constipation, diarrhoea or lienteric diarrhoea— i.e., 
passage of undigested food. The carbohydrates of the food are 
transformed into lactic, acetic, or butyric acids, and carbonic acid 
gas. The free use of alkalies, lime-water, Vichy water, and lithia 
water, barley-water, or gum-water, along with the food, neutralizes 
the acidity, soothes the stomach, and prevents the formation of 
large or hard curds of milk. But these measures are insufficient 
in catarrh of the stomach and bowels, when milk is injurious and 
starch cannot be digested ; under such circumstances it is better 
to refrain from giving either for a little time. Many infants re- 
cover when given nothing but a little plain pure water for a day 
or two ; others when given albumin-water, made by whipping the 
white of an egg and mixing it in 6 ounces of water with a little 
salt. When the child is recovering, vomiting and purging having 
ceased, we may commence to feed it by giving small quantities of 
milk and lime-water or barley-water alternately with the albumin- 
water, or a little predigested milk, such as Keffir, may be used. 
If these are rejected, a little diluted meat juice or beef essence 
may be given in teaspoonful doses ; it can be prepared thus : Cut 
lean meat into small cubes about ^ to J inch in size, place them 
in a bottle without water, close it securely, and boil the bottle 
for several hours in a pan of water. 

In older children and adults it is necessary to enforce rest of 
the inflamed organ by entirely excluding food from the stomach 
for a day or two. In severe cases with much pain, tenderness, 
frequent vomiting, and fever, the patient should be kept in bed, 
and is usually too ill to get up ; should be given bits of ice to 
suck or ice-water to drink, and be fed by nutrient enemata, by 
which means the vomiting is usually subdued. The alkaline 
carbonates and carbonic acid gas, in the form of soda-water, 
Apollinaris water, effervescing powders. Ems, Vichy, or Vals 
waters, are very useful. The carbonic acid moderates the con- 
gestion, soothes the irritated mucous membrane, allays vomiting, 

30 



466 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and by causing speedy eructation facilitates the escape of gases 
which are generated in the stomach ; the alkaH lessens the tough- 
ness of the mucus, assists in its evacuation, and neutralizes the 
gastric juice. It is sometimes necessary to wash out the stomach 
with an alkaline water, such as Ems or Vichy, or with ordinary 
water containing carbonate of soda or boracic acid. The applica- 
tion of ice over the pit of the stomach in the form of an ice-bag 
or an ice compress (small lumps of ice between layers of flannel) 
is frequently beneficial ; and the opposite method of treatment — 
that is, by the application of a mustard plaster, mustard and 
linseed poultice, turpentine, or abstraction of blood by leeches — 
applied to the same region, will relieve pain, congestion, and 
vomiting. 

In less severe cases, when complete absence of food is not 
essential, we may give bland and unirritating liquids, such as 
milk with an equal quantity of lime or barley water, or with 
about 20 to 30 grains of bicarbonate of potash or soda in each 
pint ; or the alkaline waters of Ems, Vals, Vichy, and many other 
sources ; or gaseous alkaline waters, such as potash, soda, lithia, 
or Apollinaris waters. Many patients can take arrowroot and 
milk, isinglass and milk, peptonized milk or gruel, or meat 
essences ; the proper quantity is an ounce of fluid every half an 
hour, the same amount of farinaceous food every three hours, and 
meat juice or jelly between the other meals. 

When the acute stage has passed off we must keep the patient 
for some time upon small quantities of very light food, which 
may be predigested if necessary. We should pass from milk and 
lime-water, etc., to arrowroot and milk or similar farinaceous 
foods, peptonized milk gruel, jelly, meat essence, junket, and 
custard. When the stomach can bear these we may give a little 
clear soup, milk pudding, boiled bread-and-milk, bread-and-butter, 
poached egg, light fish, chicken, mashed potato, spinach, vegetable 
marrow, squash, vegetable puree, and baked apples. There must 
be a gradual return to the ordinary diet, avoiding those errors 
which provoked the attack, and especially rich food, entrees, 
hashed meat, spices, alcohol, etc. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 467 



Chronic Gastric Catarrh. 

Any cause which produces dyspepsia, indigestion, or recurrent 
attacks of acute catarrh of the stomach may also cause chronic 
gastric catarrh or chronic catarrhal gastritis ; but it occurs in 
many other diseases, as obstruction of the portal circulation 
from disease of the liver, from disease of the heart, lungs, or 
chronic pleurisy ; it usually accompanies organic diseases of the 
digestive tract, as ulcer or cancer, and blood diseases, such as 
anaemia. 

When this disease has lasted for some time various organic 
changes take place in the structure of the mucous membrane : 
patches of reddish-brown or slaty-gray colour occur from haemor- 
rhages into the mucous lining, and transformation of the colouring 
matter into pigment ; the surface becomes wrinkled and rough 
from enlargement of the glandular and connective-tissue elements, 
and a grayish-white mucus adheres to it. 

Most patients complain of tenderness at the pit of the stomach 
on pressure, but pain is not constant nor severe. There are the 
ordinary signs of functional dyspepsia : fulness and weight after 
eating, heartburn, water-brash, belching of gas, and sometimes 
nausea or vomiting. The vomited matters mostly contain mucus, 
often a good deal of organic acid owing to fermentation, and 
sometimes fungi and bacteria. There is usually a diminution in 
the proportion of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice (hypochlor- 
hydria). In the alcoholic form there is frequently vomiting in 
the morning of a fluid which consists mostly of mucus and saliva 
which has been swallowed during the night. Diarrhoea may 
occur from a concurrent intestinal catarrh, but the bowels are 
usually constipated, and the urine has a deposit. If the catarrh 
extends to the mouth, as it often does, the breath is foul ; the 
tongue may be coated, flabby, slimy, and indented on its edges by 
the teeth ; or it may be small, red at the tip and edges ; or the 
gums may be red, spongy, and discharging, and the lips cracked. 
The general condition is one of malaise : the patient is dull, languid, 
listless, and easily exhausted ; mental depression, nervous irrita- 
bility, headache, and giddiness are common ; the heart may be 
too rapid, intermittent, or irregular. Most of the general symp- 

30—2 



468 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

toms are due to imperfect nutrition and auto-intoxication by the 
products of imperfect digestion. 

The course and results of chronic gastric catarrh may extend 
over months or years, with more or less severity and frequent 
variations. Most cases of primary catarrh are curable, and a 
very large number of those of secondary origin disappear with 
the concurrent disease under careful treatment. When the 
disease lasts a long time the nutrition suffers, owing to the dis- 
turbance of digestion and interference with absorption ; in such 
cases the patient necessarily emaciates, the fat disappears, the 
muscles become flabby, and the skin dry. A continuance of 
malnutrition and loss of flesh suggests the necessity of further 
examination for complicating diseases. 

The treatment should be begun by forbidding all alcoholic 
drinks, tea, coffee, tobacco, pickles, and indigestible food ; by 
insisting upon attention to the teeth and gums (obtaining artificial 
teeth where necessary), slow eating, careful mastication, rest 
before and after eating ; by attention to the skin, regular exercise 
in the open air, freedom from worry, a calm and tranquil life, 
with moderate mental or physical work. The choice of food and 
its careful preparation are equally important. Some kinds of 
food are easily digested in small quantities, which become a 
source of pain and irritation when taken in the ordinary amount. 
Everything depends upon the digestive ability of the stomach and 
its power of propelling its contents into the intestine ; conse- 
quently, the food should be adjusted to these conditions. Foods 
are digestible which are capable of chymification without burden- 
ing the stomach, which are emptied into the intestine in proper 
time, and do not unduly tax the functions of the latter. There 
are many degrees of chronic gastric catarrh, from a slight diminu- 
tion of the digestive function to absolute loss of secretion or 
atrophy of the secreting glands ; and cases may be classified as 
catarrh with (a) diminution of hydrochloric acid, (b) absence of 
hydrochloric acid, (c) absence of gastric ferments or atrophic 
gastritis. These conditions are ascertained by an examination of 
the contents of the stomach after a test-meal. The patient has 
for breakfast a dry roll and a glassful of warm water, and an 
hour afterwards the contents of the stomach are removed by a 
tube and examined chemically and microscopically. If hydro- 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 469 

chloric acid be present in the proportion of 0-2 per cent., gastric 
catarrh or gastritis is excluded; it is usually deficient, and may be 
absent entirely. Besides searching for free hydrochloric acid, the 
presence of pepsin and rennin ferments are ascertained ; if they 
are absent, we are dealing with a case of atrophic gastritis. The 
presence of mucus in increased amount is a decided indication of 
gastric catarrh. 

The food requires very careful consideration. When the stomach 
is unable to digest proteids, owing to the deficiency of gastric 
juice or of its ferments and acid, the digestion of carbohydrates 
may be perfect. Proteid should then be given in a prepared or 
semi-digested form, as albumin, peptone, and casein preparations. 
In these cases fat is likewise digested with difficulty, or is split up 
into fatty acids in the duodenum, and so does not enter the lymph 
channels in the usual way as neutral fat ; but the free use of 
sodium chloride or salt is useful by helping to form hydrochloric 
acid and assisting to check fermentative processes. No stereotyped 
diet list will suit every case — each one requires careful considera- 
tion, but certain general rules are applicable to all. 

The patient must avoid very hot or very cold drink and ices ; 
fat meat, sauces, rich food, pork, veal, game, sausage, duck, 
goose ; heavy kinds of fish, such as mackerel, salmon, and eel ; 
new bread, hot buttered toast, crumpets, muffins, pastry ; shell- 
fish ; cheese ; heavy vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, parsnips, 
cabbage, dried peas, and beans ; the cellulose coverings of fruit, 
and fruit containing seeds, such as currants, gooseberries, figs, etc. 

Though the power of the gastric juice to digest proteid sub- 
stances is diminished in chronic gastric catarrh, the patient does 
better with a moderate amount of carefully-selected fish, fowl, or 
meat, than if they are entirely excluded and only farinaceous 
foods allowed. 

Alloio : In mild cases no limitation of the amount of food is 
necessary, providing it be of the right character and properly 
masticated ; for when the muscular power of the stomach is good, 
any food which is not digested in the stomach will be propelled 
into the intestines and digested there. It is better, therefore, for 
the patient not to reject all proteid, or all carbohydrate or fat, 
but to take a judicious mixture of them, selected from such lists 
as that given under ' Indigestion.' 



470 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

In severe cases, begin with milk and farinaceous foods — e.g., 
milk puddings or fine oatmeal — then cautiously add light fish, 
poached eggs, scraped meat, chicken panada, bread-and-butter ; 
then mashed potato or yam, puree of vegetable, spinach, vegetable 
marrow, squash, cauliflowers ; finally beef, mutton, fowl, or 
pheasant. 

In all ordinary cases, clear soups, thick soups, consomme, 
vegetable puree, jelly, meat powder, scraped meat, chicken 
panada, soft-boiled eggs, tender lean meat, chicken, or pheasant 
will be usually readily absorbed ; and as a rule, any food which 
has been passed through a fine sieve may be permitted. The 
supply of carbohydrate should not be restricted ; starch is usually 
well digested, providing the bread, etc., is well masticated and the 
saliva is active ; but some authorities do not allow such carbo- 
hydrates as arrowroot, cornflour, or starch and oatmeal, which 
are swallowed without mastication and do not mingle with the 
saliva, because they are apt to ferment in the stomach and pro- 
duce acidity and flatulence. Fat is allowed in the form of cream 
and butter, but an excess of butter will check gastric secretion. 
Spices and condiments in moderate amount are useful by 
stimulating the secretion of the digestive fluids and producing 
carminative and aromatic effects. The meals should be small, 
concentrated, and plenty of time allowed for digestion. 

In the atrophic form of the disease, where the ferments are 
deficient or absent, an absolute milk diet is sometimes necessary ; 
but this may usually be supplemented by meat powders, milk 
powders, and peptonized gruel, or other predigested foods ; a 
minimum of food necessary for nutrition is for some time the only 
useful treatment. 

Patients with gastric catarrh must avoid strong tea, coffee, and 
all kinds of alcohol. The drink should consist of a tumblerful of 
warm alkaline water taken half an hour before each meal, such 
as the natural mineral waters of Vichy, Ems, Bilin, Selters, 
Salzbrun, or Saratoga- Vichy • or those of Bath, Marienbad, 
Carlsbad, or Hot Springs, which contain chloride of sodium. 
These waters may be taken at home or at the spa. Their use is 
to cleanse the mucous membrane, remove tenacious mucus, 
neutralize organic acidity, rouse the circulatory activity of the 
gastric mucous membrane, and stimulate the secretion of gastric 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 471 

juice and muscular activity of the organ ; they likewise lessen 
the desire to drink during the meal, and thereby permit the 
salivary and gastric secretions to act without dilution. The 
patient should never drink during the meal ; but at the end of it 
or an hour or so afterwards he may have a small teacupful of 
China tea, thin cocoa, pure water, ApoUinaris, Salutaris, or other 
gaseous water, and whey or buttermilk. A little red wine, such 
as Bordeaux, Burgundy, or Hungarian, diluted with a gaseous or 
alkaline water, may be taken in mild cases, but it is better to 
forbid alcohol in most instances. 

Constipation must be treated. The aperient waters of Carlsbad, 
Friedrichshall, Hunyadi Janos, Pullna, or Condal, are valuable 
in instances where the disease has been caused by excess of 
alcohol, by chronic congestion of the liver, or failure of the 
circulatory system. The mild waters are to be preferred when 
they are sufficient to effect an evacuation, but the strong ones 
may be used according to necessity. They remove fluids from 
the body, relieve the congested veins, cleanse the system by 
removing the products of imperfect digestion, and stimulate the 
general circulation and metabolism. 

Lavage, or washing out the stomach, is an important part of 
the treatment of all bad cases ; lotions consisting of plain 
warm water, hot water containing a small amount of sodium 
bicarbonate or chloride, boracic acid or lime-water, or the natural 
water of Hot Springs, Vichy, Ems, Bath, Malvern, and other 
places, may be used. If the patient refuse lavage, it may be 
useful to administer an emetic to him occasionally. Enemata of 
a pint of these liquids daily are useful in assisting to restore the 
motor activity of the stomach. 

Moderate physical exercise is necessary in all cases, and light 
massage and hydrotherapy may be useful. 

TJie Effect of Spices in Diseases of the Stomach. — Experiments 
carried out by Korczynski tend to prove that spices assist the 
motor functions of the stomach ; but they progressively impair 
the secretory function and finally inhibit the production of 
hydrochloric acid ; on the whole they tend to hinder rather than 
help digestion. They are useful to persons in whom the diges- 
tion is slow, owing to deficiency of muscular power, and in those 
with hyperchlorhydria. Such substances may also tend to 



472 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

check fermentation, and are of decided value for dispelling flatus, 
stimulating the circulation through the organ, and thereby 
assisting absorption. A similar influence is exercised by menthol, 
which is the active principle of peppermint, and allied to some 
of the spices. Vladimirsky has shown by experiment that it 
diminishes the amount of free hydrochloric acid ; that the 
digestive power of the gastric juice is thereby diminished, and 
the transformation of proteid hindered by it ; that the motor 
power of the stomach is checked ; that lactic acid rises in pro- 
portion as hydrochloric acid is diminished ; but the absorptive 
power of the stomach is increased by stimulation of the circula- 
tion." 

Ulcer of the Stomach. 

The cause of this trouble is obscure, but it occurs most 
commonly in females from eighteen to twenty-five years of age, 
and occasionally in children aud old men ; it is usually preceded 
and accompanied by debility, anaemia, or chlorosis, while gastric 
catarrh and constipation are nearly always present, and bring in 
their train the symptoms characteristic of each. The special 
signs indicative of an ulcer are pain, vomiting, and haemorrhage. 

The pain of an ulcer may be circumscribed to one spot or 
diffused over the pit of the stomach. At the first commencement 
of the trouble there is a slight disturbance of the digestion and 
oppression after food, or discomfort when anything is tight 
around the waist. In these early cases a diagnosis of ulcer is 
not possible, but later there is a steady pain in the pit of the 
stomach, increased by pressure at a circumscribed spot ; some- 
times there are paroxysms of pain after eating, starting from the 
pit of the stomach and extending towards the back or between 
the shoulder-blades, especially after hot, pungent, or indigestible 
foods. The pain lasts as long as there is food in the stomach, 
and when very severe it causes the patient to sigh or groan, and 
no relief is obtained until the stomach is emptied by vomiting, or 
the food is chymified and passed into the intestine, which may 
require hours. It is due to the movements of the stomach, or 
the gastric juice, whose secretion is excited by the presence of 
food, irritates the ulcer and causes pain, for in the intermissions 
there is no gastric juice and the ulcer is covered by mucus. In 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 473 

some obscure cases pain is absent, so that perforation of the 
stomach or severe hgemorrhage may happen unexpectedly, the 
only previous trouble being merely a little dyspepsia or uneasiness 
after food. 

Vomiting is almost a constant symptom, and it occurs sooner 
or later after a meal, according to the position of the ulcer. 
Vomiting is rarely absent ; it is exhausting jjer se, as v^ell as by 
the removal of food and prevention of nutrition. Coarse kinds 
of food, as bread, potatoes, and vegetables, excite more energetic 
movements of the stomach, accompanied by severe pain and 
vomiting, than soup, milk, and other soft or fluid articles of diet. 
The vomited food is usually more or less changed in proportion 
to the time it has remained in the stomach ; it is often mixed 
with mucus, owing to a concurrent gastric catarrh, and may be 
sour from the presence of butyric, acetic, and lactic acids, or 
fungi. Severe pain and vomiting occurring regularly after meals 
make it very probable that a chronic ulcer of the stomach exists, 
and this is rendered certain by vomiting of blood. Haemorrhage 
of necessity varies in amount from a little oozing from the surface 
or edges of the ulcer to a large gush of blood, caused by the 
bursting of a bloodvessel. The vomited blood may be of a dirty 
brown colour, from the action of gastric juice upon it; profuse 
vomiting of bright-coloured blood is indicative of erosion or 
' bursting of a bloodvessel,' the blood being vomited before the 
gastric juice has time to alter its character. Blood may pass 
through the bowels and cause ' tarry stools.' Bleeding may 
occur frequently during the existence of an ulcer, because the 
movements of the stomach tend to reopen the vessels. 

Chronic catarrh of the mouth frequently complicates gastric 
ulcer, but instead of the tongue being thickly coated, it is usually 
red and furrowed. In many cases there is soreness of and 
discharge from the gums, and the fluids from the mouth, which 
are swallowed during the night, irritate the stomach, almost 
certainly increase the vomiting, and may set up blood-poisoning. 
The general health suffers from an ulcer of the stomach, owing to 
pain and impairment of nutrition ; the patient becomes pale, 
anaemic, and languid. Perforation of the stomach occurs in 
G-5 per cent, of the cases ; in chronic ulcer it is always caused 
by distension with food or gas, retching, vomiting, coughing, 



474 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

straining, or some other effort. Peritonitis may follow, with fatal 
results in a day or two unless an operation is performed to close 
the wound. Haemorrhage from rupture of a large vessel may 
cause death very speedily, but repeated haemorrhages occur in 
some cases without any untoward consequences. The prognosis 
is on the whole favourable to recovery, but the disease may 
alternate, relapses occurring until the ulcer is quite healed over. 

Treatment. — The patient should be put to bed for fourteen to 
twenty-one days to remove all sources of irritation, to secure the 
greatest amount of comfort to the body and rest to the organ, 
and to reduce the wants of the system to the lowest terms. The 
necessity for absolute physiological rest is recognised as an 
important element of the treatment by all authorities, but it 
is not always enforced in mild cases, with the consequence that 
relapses are frequent. 

In mild cases of repeated vomiting and pain after food an 

exclusive milk diet, or such foods as will not irritate the ulcer 

mechanically or chemically, may be allowed. Give at first 

2 ounces of milk every two hours (a pint a day) ; the amount 

must be small. If it is not well borne, it must be diluted with as 

much lime-water, soda or other alkaline water, or it may be 

peptonized. We may also allow an egg once a day ; let it be 

beaten up, mixed with 2 ounces of milk and water and a little 

sugar. Stale milk roll may also be allowed two or three times a 

day, prepared as follows : Soak 1 ounce of breadcrumbs in boiling 

water, strain the water away, rub it through a sieve, and mix with 

it 3 ounces of milk and water.^^ We may also allow a cupful of 

weak tea (nearly all milk), or tea made with boiling milk instead of 

water. We must gradually increase the consumption of milk, as 

we find the stomach can bear it, until 4 or 5 pints are taken in 

twenty-four hours. About the third week of treatment we may 

thicken some of the milk with biscuit powder, arrowroot, fine 

oatmeal, or one of the patent invalid foods ; we may also give 

peptonized milk gruel, jelly, custard, junket, powdered or scraped 

meat. After another week or ten days, if the symptoms have 

subsided, an experiment may be tried with light fish or chicken, 

and, if these are borne with comfort, gradually return to the 

ordinary diet, taking care to avoid anything which may unduly 

tax the stomach or cause indigestion. ^^ 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 475 

Professor Saundby^^ allows from the commencement of the 
treatment 1 ounce of milk and 1 ounce of lime-water every hour, 
and increases it to 2, 3, and 4 ounces on successive days. He 
then allows soft bread, custard, mashed potato, minced chicken, 
or fish, and gradually increases the amount and solidity of the 
food, until ordinary food is reached in the third week. This, 
however, is a very rapid progress, and is very liable to be followed 
by a relapse. 

In severe cases, with pain, vomiting, and haemorrhage, most 

authorities allow nothing by the mouth for about ten days. The 

patient is fed by the bowel alone, with ' feeds ' similar to the 

following — great care is necessary in this important part of the 

treatment : (a) Beef-tea, 5 ounces ; peptonizing powder, \ tube ; 

glucose, a dessertspoonful ; brandy, ditto ; and a little common 

salt, [h) One raw egg beaten up, 4 ounces of milk, a little salt 

to assist its absorption, (c) Peptonized milk, 5 ounces, or similar 

substances. Each meal should only consist of 5 or 6 ounces, 

administered through a tube with a glass nozzle, the patient 

meanwhile lying upon the side or in the knee-elbow position. 

A funnel attached to the tube is held about 2 feet above the 

patient's hips, and the food poured into it, and allowed to enter 

the bowel by its own weight. Ewart^-^ prescribes continuous 

rectal alimentation as follows : A length of tube is used, to one 

end of which is fitted an indiarubber male catheter, and to the 

other the body of a 5-ounce glass syringe. The catheter is 

inserted into the rectum as far as it will go without doubling, 

and allowed to remain in all day ; the glass container is fixed 

about 2 feet above the patient's hips ; a clip is put upon the tube 

to regulate the flow, so that 5 ounces of fluid pass into the bowels 

in about two hours. He gives the following mixture : To 1 pint 

of milk add two raw eggs, beaten up, two teaspoonfuls of extract 

of malt, and a little brandy. 

The idea of rectal fe.ding is to give the patient enough 
nutriment to supply the waste of the tissues, and a little more to 
help in the healing process. But a careful analysis by Edsall 
and Miller 1'' of the enemata, urine, and focces of patients fed 
exclusively by the bowel in gastric ulcer shows that only in 
exceptional cases does rectal feeding provide enough nutriment 
to prevent tissue loss, and even then the patient remains in a 



476 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

condition of decided subnutrition. Boyd^^ asserts that only 
210 calories a day can be obtained by rectal feeding, which is a 
small amount compared with the 2,300 calories required by the 
body. Griffiths mentions two guides as to the adequacy of the 
nutrition afforded : When the patient is amply and well fed, the 
tongue is moist and clean and the breath sweet (normal) ; but 
when a patient is starving or the nutrition very inadequate, 
the breath is tainted or offensive, there is a great thirst and a 
dry tongue. Several writers question the necessity for nutrient 
enemata during the ten days when nothing is given by the 
mouth ; they say nutrient enemata satisfy the mind rather than 
the body. Feeding by the rectum is decidedly better than 
starvation, however inadequate it may be. About a tenth of the 
nutriment necessary to maintain a physiological balance can be 
absorbed in this way, but Miller and Edsall assert that in excep- 
tional cases the nutritive equilibrium is fully maintained. 
Experience proves that rectal feeding can only be safely con- 
tinued in most cases for eight or ten days ; the absorption of 
nutriment is too scanty for longer continuance, and the risks of 
semi-starvation are as great as those of stomach-feeding. 

Besides giving nutrient enemata, water, which is usually 
readily absorbed, must be injected into the bowels to supply the 
physiological needs of the body and quench the thirst. Injections 
of 10 to 20 ounces of plain boiled water or normal saline solution 
at a temperature of 97° to 100° F. may be given every four or six 
hours ; starvation is well borne when plenty of water containing 
a little salt is injected. When rectal feeding is properly per- 
formed the patient is usually free from pain, hunger, vomiting, 
and thirst after a few days' treatment. 

Troubles sometimes arise during rectal feeding. The rectum 
is irritable from the commencement with some people, in others 
it becomes very intolerant of the enemata after a little time ; it 
is advisable, therefore, to wash it out once a day with a mild 
antiseptic lotion, such as boracic, to check putrefaction and 
subdue irritability of the bowels. Mumps is also liable to occur, 
and requires the ordinary treatment for that complaint. 

The question has to be considered whether we may allow any 
iiuid by the mouth during the period of rectal feeding. Some 
authorities allow ice to suck, iced water, hot water, Vichy and 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 477 

other alkaline waters, to quench the thirst and subdue vomiting. 
Kingi^ also allows a teaspoonful of water every fifteen minutes, 
or 15 ounces in twenty-four hours, which he asserts is too small 
a quantity to do any harm, although larger amounts set up 
peristaltic action. But if we are to act on the principle of giving 
absolute physiological rest to the stomach even this must be 
forbidden, and nothing except medicine allowed through the 
mouth, for every movement delays the healing process. 

Vomiting usually ceases when physiological rest of the stomach 
and body is enforced, but patients who are prone to vomit must 
be kept scrupulously still, even avoiding shaking the bed or 
turning over. Vomiting is sometimes maintained reflexly by the 
rectal injections, and it has been asserted that the salt, given with 
raw eggs or in normal saline solution, keeps it going. The state 
of the mouth, especially when the gums are ulcerated and pus 
and microbes are swallowed, causes vomiting ; a mouth wash 
should then be used several times a day and the teeth cleaned. 
The application of a mustard plaster, iodine, or turpentine to the 
pit of the stomach may check vomiting; in rare cases it only 
ceases when the rectal feeding is omitted, then we must give 
peptonized milk or milk gruel and meat juice or essence by 
the stomach. 

If an attack of bleeding (hsematemesis) occurs, ice-bags should 
be applied over the stomach for an hour or two, then removed 
for the same period and applied again. It should not be forgotten, 
however, that the application of ice to the stomach may increase 
the condition of collapse or prostration by abstraction of heat ; 
but the application of a mustard plaster to the soles of the feet 
or injections of saline solutions under the skin or into the rectum 
will help to restore the patient. An operation may be required 
if it is suspected that the bleeding is taking place from a large 
bloodvessel. 

After ten days of rectal feeding we may begin to give the 
patient small quantities of milk and water by the mouth, and if 
it neither causes pain nor vomiting it may be continued. But 
the rectal injections should be kept up for a few days longer, and 
gradually diminished as more nutriment is taken by the mouth, 
and the dietary given above for a mild case is being used. 

Spa Treatment. — In mild cases of ulcer and in the chronic 



478 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

ulcers of old men, when gastric catarrh is a well-marked 
feature of the case, spa treatment is sometimes recommended. 
The thermal waters of Carlsbad, Marienbad, Wildbad, Tarasp, 
and other places, which contain alkaline carbonates and sulphates, 
are the most suitable. The carbonate of soda in them dissolves 
the tenacious mucus, detaches it from the mucous membrane, 
and acts as an antacid ; the chloride of soda is antiseptic and a 
stimulant to digestion ; and the sulphate of soda stimulates 
peristaltic action, and promotes expulsion of the gastric contents 
into the intestine. The water must be drunk warm (100° to 
120° F.), and taken when the stomach is empty ; four wine- 
glassfuls or tumblerfuls should be taken at intervals of fifteen 
minutes before breakfast. No food should be taken until half an 
hour after the last draught of water. Two or three motions 
should occur after breakfast, and more or less water should be 
taken in proportion to these evacuations. Lavage of the stomach 
with the spa water is also recommended for chronic gastric ulcer 
in old men. 

The after-treatment of a case of gastric ulcer is important ; a 
careful regimen must be enforced, including careful feeding, and 
the correction of constipation, dyspepsia, anaemia or chlorosis. 

Cancer of the Stomacli. 

Cancer more frequently attacks one of the apertures than the 
body of the organ, and in its treatment it is necessary to dis- 
tinguish the site of the growth. There is always vomiting or 
regurgitation of food. When the cancer is in the body of the 
stomach it only occurs now and then, but if at one of the orifices 
it occurs at each meal, (a) When cancer affects the cardiac 
orifice or implicates the gullet, the vomiting occurs during or 
immediately after each meal. The food does not always enter 
the stomach, but remains in a pouch or dilatation of the gullet, 
when vomiting and regurgitation necessarily occurs. Food 
brought up from the gullet is alkaline, but is otherwise unaltered, 
except for the presence of mucus ; food from the stomach is 
acid. A bougie or oesophageal tube passes through the gullet 
with difficulty ; the abdomen is flat, the pit of the stomach sunken, 
and the ribs prominent ; the stomach contracts or atrophies. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 479 

(b) Cancer at the pyloric end of the stomach forms an obstruction 
to the passage of food into the bowels. Vomiting does not occur 
in these cases until several hours after food is taken ; it is then 
very copious, and the material vomited is sour or foul from the 
presence of lactic, butyric, and acetic acids, and microscopical 
examination reveals the presence of bacteria and fungi. The 
stomach is dilated, whence the pit of the stomach is prominent. 
A tumour may sometimes be felt, and there may be ha3morrhage 
from the breaking down of the cancerous mass; but copious 
bleeding would favour the probability of the disease being an 
ulcer rather than a cancer. The general symptoms are those of 
chronic gastric catarrh or ulcer, or of dilatation of the stomach 
when the growth is in the pylorus. Dyspepsia, vomiting, ejection 
of sour fermented or putrefied material, sour eructations, tender- 
ness in the pit of the stomach, vomiting of blood, blood in the 
motions, constipation, and progressive loss of flesh, are among 
the chief symptoms ; they all occur in other diseases, but if 
there is added to them the signs of cachexia, a dirty yellow, 
earthy, or fawn colour of the skin, if enlarged glands or a growth 
can be felt, the existence of cancer can scarcely be doubted. 

The diet must be arranged in all cases to supply the demands 
of the body and check emaciation, (a) When the cancer affects 
the cardiac orifice and the gullet, the food should consist of milk, 
beef-tea, raw eggs, meat essences, potato puree, consomme, fine 
oatmeal, arrowroot, and other farinaceous foods, in sufficient 
quantity to maintain the requirements of the body. Four pints 
of milk, 2 ounces of fine oatmeal or cornmeal, 2 ounces of arrow- 
root, I ounce of sugar, h ounce of butter or other fat, form a 
dietary which will yield 2,217 calories. This is a little short of 
the amount required for a man doing ordinary work, and contains 
nearly the normal amount of proteid, carbohydrate, and fat 
required daily according to Eanke. The patient should be fed 
three times a day by means of a tube, 1^ pints of thickened milk 
or milk and raw eggs being poured in at each meal. So long as 
it is possible to pass even a small tube the patient should be fed 
in this manner ; when it becomes impossible, rectal feeding must 
be resorted to. Sometimes, after intermitting gastric feeding for 
a few days, a tube can be again passed through the gullet into 
the stomach and the patient fed as before. When, however, the 



480 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

tube can no longer be passed through, the question of an opera- 
tion to permit of his being fed through the abdominal wall has to 
be considered ; this may be the means of lengthening life for a 
short time, but that is the utmost that can be hoped for at present 
when the diagnosis of cancer is undoubted. 

(&) When the cancer is at the pyloric extremity, and thereby 
obstructs the passage from the stomach into the bowels, such 
food as bread, potatoes, sweet potatoes, arrowroot, cornflour, oat- 
meal, biscuit, rusk, and all other farinaceous foods, viust he for- 
bidden, because they cannot be digested in the stomach, and their 
passage into the bowels is hindered by the growth. If these 
foods be consumed, they will ferment and cause much flatulence 
and acidity, with increase of pain, fulness, belching, regurgita- 
tion, or vomiting. The proper food is plainly one which contains 
the most proteid and least carbohydrate. For this reason milk 
is decidedly the best, if it can be borne ; it may be peptonized 
or diluted with Ems, Vichy, or lime water. We may add to the 
list raw eggs, concentrated broths, scraped meat, soft fish, chicken, 
oysters, meat extracts, meat powders, or milk powders. All solid 
food should be finely minced and passed through a sieve to 
remove all particles of fibrous, stringy, and cartilaginous sub- 
stance or other indigestible residue. Ordinary cooked meat con- 
tains 27 per cent, of proteid, of which only 17 are digestible, there- 
fore the residue must be removed in the manner stated. Chicken 
and fish also contain about 17 per cent, of digestible proteid; the 
fat in fish and chicken is about 3 per cent., in cooked meat 15. 
A dietary consisting of 4 pints of milk, two raw eggs, and 
8 ounces of meat, fish, or chicken, will yield 146 grammes of 
available proteid, 108 of carbohydrate, and 105 of fat, with 2,490 
available calories or units of heat and energy. More proteid is 
here allowed than in the normal diet, to make up for a deficiency 
in carbohydrate ; the nitrogenous excretion has therefore to be 
carefully watched by an estimation of the urea output every few 
days. About half the proteid may be converted into fat, and 
yield heat and energy. 

In hgemorrhagic cases the patient should be fed by the bowels 
only during and for a few days after the cessation of bleeding, 
and in non-bleeding cases it is also advisable to give the stomach 
a few days' entire rest while rectal feeding is carried out. Eectal 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 481 

foods, such as those named for ulcer of the stomach, as peptonized 
milk, peptones, beef-tea, egg-and-milk, with salt, alcohol, and 
plenty of plain water, are advised. Beaumetz prescribed the 
following rectal meal : The yolk of an egg, ^ pint of milk, 1 ounce 
of liquid peptones, 5 drops of laudanum, 8 grains bicarbonate of 
soda, 15 grains of common salt ; mix. The carbonate of soda 
and salt render the liquid alkaline and assist in its absorption, 
and opium checks the irritability of the mucous membrane. Egg- 
albumin and milk, peptonized or not, are absorbed by the mucous 
membrane and assimilated ; 15 grains of salt to each egg or 
^ pint of milk should be added according to some authorities, 
but Ewald believes peptonization is better. Hubers'^'' method of 
preparation is as follows : Six eggs and 90 grains of salt are 
mixed together, 3| ounces of a 0'15 per cent, solution of hydro- 
chloric acid containing 75 grains of pepsin are added to it, and the 
mixture is kept for ten hours in a warm chamber. Boas^o recom- 
mends ^ pint of milk, the same of wine, the yolk of two eggs, a 
little salt, and a teaspoonful of peptone ; beat these together and 
mix well ; a little grape-sugar may be added. Such enemata are 
useful, not only in cancer of the stomach, but in some cases of 
gastric dilatation, gastric neuroses, gastric ulcer, the vomiting of 
pregnancy, and after abdominal operations, their value having 
been established by Voit, Bauer, and other dietetic specialists. 
But it is doubtful how much nutriment can be absorbed per 
rectum, probably not more than will yield 210 calories, or one- 
tenth of the bodily requirements ; nevertheless, this is better 
than starvation, for peptones, salt, alcohol, and water are ab- 
sorbed, thirst is assuaged, the body stimulated, and the mind 
relieved of the idea of starvation. The rectum should be washed 
out once a day with a mild antiseptic lotion. Normal saline 
solution may be injected in quantities of 15 to 20 ounces two or 
three times a day, to quench thirst and prevent the drying up of 
the tissues. The Neio York Medical Journal gives the following 
formula for it : Chloride of lime, 3| grains ; chloride of potash, 
Ih grains ; chloride of soda, 2^ drachms ; distilled water 2 pints ; 
mix. This solution is also injected into the veins or the areolar 
tissue of the armpit and elsewhere when a patient is exhausted 
or collapsed from loss of blood. 

The general treatment of cancer of the stomach consists in 

31 



482 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

relieving pain, acidity, vomiting, fermentation, flatulence, and 
constipation. Pain and vomiting are often due to acidity and 
distension, from the production of gas and organic acids. The 
administration of charcoal in biscuits or powder, and various 
antiseptic or disinfecting powders, may be given to check fermenta- 
tion, putrefaction, and flatulence. Flatulence may also be relieved 
by a judicious mixture of cloves, nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, or 
fennel with the food. Lavage of the stomach in pyloric cases 
likewise aids in removing the micro-organisms which are so 
largely responsible for the decomposition of food, generation of 
acids and gas, and increase of dilatation. Constipation should 
be relieved by enemata or by saline aperient waters. Persistent 
vomiting, sometimes caused reflexly by irritation of the rectal 
mucous membrane, will be relieved by washing out the rectum 
with a soothing lotion, or by the application of ice, ice-bag, or 
mustard plaster to the pit of the stomach. Various operations 
may be considered, such as resection of the pylorus for relief of 
pyloric cancer, gastro-duodenal anastomosis, or making a fistulous 
opening through the abdominal wall for the purpose of feeding a 
patient. 

References : ^ Osier's ' Mediciue. ' '^ Taylor's ' Practice of Medicine.' ^ Max 
Einhorn, American Medicine, June 21, 1902. * Knapp, Medical Record, Septem- 
ber, 6, 1902. 5 Boas, Deutsch. Med. ZeiL, 1890, 43. "^ Grierson, 'Year-book of 
Pharmacy,' 1894, 354. ^ Max Einhorn, loc. cit. ^ Brit. Med. Jour., 1904, i., 22 ; 
" G. See, Semaine Medicale (Brit. Med. Jo^ir., October 4, 1890). ^" Matthieu, 
Rev. de Thtrapie, 1895, 8. ^^ G. See, loc. cit. ^"^ Yeo's ' Handbook of Medical 
Treatment.' ^'^ Brit. Med. Jour., 1903, vol. ii. (Report of the Meeting of the 
British Medical Association, 1903). i^ Ibid. ^^ Ihid. !« Ihid. ^^ Ibid. ^^ Ibid. 
^^ Singer, C'entralb. fiir gcs-Therapie, March, 1905. '■^" Boas, Ibid. ; and the 
following: Brunton's 'Disorders of Digestion'; Brace's 'Materia Medica and 
Therapeutics'; Bristowe's 'Medicine'; Niemeyer's 'Medicine'; Coat's 'Patho- 
logy.' 

CHAPTEE XXII 
DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 

CONSTIPATION.- 

Constipation is one of the most common diseases of the intes- 
tines ; it may be a primary or secondary affection. It should be 
regarded as a symptom in every case ; unless we do so we shall 

* The chief portion of this section was written by the author for the Medical 
Brief, November, 1904, from which it is extracted- 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 483 

be unlikely to effect a permanent cure, for the cause will probably 
continue to exist. Suffering from constipation is a relative term ; 
although one daily evacuation of the bowels may be regarded as 
normal, some persons only feel well when they have two or three 
movements a day, others feel well who are only moved every 
second or third day, and do not feel so well if they are moved 
oftener. The latter probably eat but little food, and that of a 
character which leaves very little residue when well digested ; the 
former eats more food of a character which is not so easily 
digested or leaves a larger residue. But persons eating the same 
food and in similar proportion likewise show a difference in the 
number or frequency of their evacuations. This is due to the fact 
that in one individual the mucous membrane is not irritated by 
the presence of faeces ; there is a sluggish movement, probably 
very little fermentation or generation of gas takes place, and 
there is no feeling of discomfort. In the other individual the 
mucous membrane is more sensitive to the presence of faeces, 
muscular action is more easily provoked and more vigorous, de- 
composition is more rapid, quantities of gas are generated which 
cause discomfort and readily provoke an evacuation of the bowels. 
The retention of faeces (constipation) in the lower part of the 
intestines, such as the flexures of the colon or rectum, produces 
great discomfort or actual pain in the abdomen, and puts the 
patient in a disagreeable frame of mind ; it produces malaise, 
headache, languor, and unfitness for the duties and pleasures of 
life ; the tongue becomes coated, there is a bad taste in the 
mouth, sometimes offensive breath and other unpleasant symp- 
toms, which are more or less due to auto-intoxication by absorp- 
tion of material from the lower intestinal tract and deleterious 
effects upon the nervous system. The results of chronic con- 
stipation are very numerous, and sometimes serious : chronic 
intestinal catarrh, mucous and membranous colitis, gastro-enteric 
catarrh, and other diseases of the alimentary and nervous 
systems, follow its neglect. Pressure of the full intestine upon 
neighbouring organs, bloodvessels, and nerves is very injurious ; 
uterine displacements are caused or aggravated by it ; fissures of 
the anus result from overdistension, and end in prolonged ill- 
health. Pressure on the veins by a distended bowel causes 
coldness of the feet, because it obstructs the circulation (an ex- 

31—2 



484 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

ceedingly common complaint), and leads to haemorrhoids, uterine 
catarrh, and excessive discharges in women, and seminal emissions 
in men. Similar pressure upon nerves causes discomfort about 
the generative and other organs in the lower parts of the bowels, 
neuralgia, sciatica, or numbness in the buttocks and thighs. 

Constipation is more frequent in women than men. It often 
arises in childhood or about puberty as the result of atony of the 
intestines, but more frequently from the bad habit of neglecting 
the ' call of Nature,' of restraining the faeces through mock 
modesty. People who lead a luxurious life are often the victims 
of constipation through want of exercise and sedentary habits ; 
it also arises through frequent pregnancies and inactivity of the 
abdominal muscles. It occurs in such diseases as antemia and 
chlorosis, or from the abuse of aperients and drug-taking generally. 
Organic disease of the bowels, cancer, stricture, bands and 
adhesions, are notable causes of some cases. Chronic intestinal 
catarrh produces a subparalytic state of the bowel, with consequent 
constipation. 

Nothnagel divides the causes of constipation into three groups : 
(1) Those dependent upon some physiological factor, as deficiency 
of fluid, improper food, irregular habits, errors in dress. (2) Those 
due to pathological causes, such as catarrhal enteritis, cancer, and 
stricture. (3) Those in which constipation is the chief symptom, 
but is dependent upon atony of the muscles of the intestines, 
lack of secretion by the intestinal glands or liver, and insufficient 
stimulation by the presence of faeces. The influence of the 
nervous system upon intestinal action is well known. The 
nervous supply of the bowels is very complex, both the spinal 
and sympathetic nerves contributing to the arrangement ; their 
action in producing diarrhoea and constipation is frequently 
observed. Although not yery clearly understood, enough is 
known to assure us that the functional integrity of the nervous 
system is essential if we are to cure either diarrhoea or constipa- 
tion, which is of long duration. 

The importance of discovering the cause of constipation is 
obvious when we consider the wide range of diseases in which it 
is a symptom ; it is necessary, therefore, to avail ourselves of a I 
physical examination for haemorrhoids, fissure or ulcer of the 
anus, stricture, cancer, uterine displacements, or tumours. The 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 485 

observation of the faeces may assist in arriving at a conclusion as 
to what is the cause. In ordinary constipation the fteces are 
usually sausage-shaped and of a moderate size, but thin, pencil- 
shaped fcGces indicate a contraction of a length of gut, small 
round masses, like sheep's dung, a ringlike constriction, and 
riband-like masses are due to pressure causing a narrowing of the 
passage by a growth implicating or pressing upon one side of it. 
Gastro-intestinal catarrh, mucous colitis, ulcer of the stomach, 
anifimia, chlorosis, neurasthenia, and other diseases of which 
constipation is a symptom, should be looked for and treated. 

During the treatment of constipation, improper food, insufficient 
liquids, irregular habits, and bad dressing on the part of women, 
must be corrected. Drastic purgatives are worse than useless 
in most cases ; enemata, especially of oil, are better, and they 
should only be used as adjuvants to other treatment. 

The diet is very important, for it is often found that the 
patient eats and drinks what she should not, and does not eat 
and drink what she ought. In the first place, then, we must 
give a list of forbidden articles, which include milk, arrowroot, 
cornflour, sago, tapioca, rice, excepting a very small quantity of 
milk pudding; eggs should be forbidden, except ' scrambled eggs ' 
occasionally, because they are constipating ; also cheese, peas, 
broad beans, haricot beans, new potatoes, pineapple, nuts ; 
smoked, salted, or potted meat or fish ; pork, liver, veal ; spirits 
and red wine. 

In choosing a diet we must consider the patient's idiosyncra- 
sies ; it should always be a mixed diet, and sometimes a change 
from one kind of food to another will effect a cure. The principle 
should be that of giving a large amount of vegetable matter, and 
in some cases almost a vegetarian diet, which as a rule is coarser 
than animal food and starchy materials, and contains a much 
larger amount of residue, which by its presence stimulates 
intestinal activity. In all ordinary cases we may alloio clear 
soup made of any kind of meat, fish, game, poultry, /ai ham or 
bacon, all kinds of butcher's meat (excepting those named above); 
oat-cake, rye-bread, white, brown, or wholemeal bread, but never 
new ; currant cakes, ginger-bread, ginger-nuts, parkin, oatmeal, 
hominy, or corn-mush ; also cooked vegetables, such as cabbage, 
savoy, kale, brussels-sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower, spinach, 



486 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

potatoes, sweet potatoes, yam, asparagus, green peas or beans, 
boiled onions, or celery. Salads mixed ^vith oil, such as lettuce, 
watercress, endive, tomato, onion, celery, cucumber, beetroot, 
sorrel, dandelion, and other green vegetables which leave a large 
residue. Dessert may consist of plain pudding, boiled suet 
pudding, Yorkshire pudding, fig pudding, stewed prunes, rhubarb, 
figs, apricots or pears ; apple-charlotte, baked apples with cream, 
Normandy pippins ; preserved fruit, jam, marmalade, and honey 
or treacle, should be eaten freely, with bread-and-butter or plain 
puddings. Raw fruit may also be taken abundantly, as figs, 
prunes, dates, grapes, raisins, currants, oranges, bananas, melons, 
water-melons, apples, pears, strawberries, gooseberries, currants, 
plums, damsons, and peaches. The ' grape cure ' is suitable 
for constipation. 

Drink may consist of pure cold or hot water taken at bedtime, 
before breakfast, and with other meals. Coffee, thin cocoa, tea, 
butter-milk, whey, koumiss, new cider, new beer, bitter beer, 
porter, orange juice, grape juice, linseed tea, lemonade, and 
alkaline waters, such as Vals, Vichy, Carlsbad, Kissiugen, 
Kronenquelle, St. Galmier, Saratoga- Vichy, and Hot Springs, 
Arkansas. As a general rule, constipated people do not take 
enough to drink. An adult must consume 4 pints of water daily 
to supply the physiological requirements of the animal economy. 
Let it be granted that 1 or 1^ pints is consumed in the food we 
eat, then 21 or 3 pints ought to be drunk in various forms during 
the day. A close inquiry will often reveal the fact that a con- 
stipated person drinks practically nothing, half a cup of tea 
morning and afternoon and a glass of wine for dinner repre- 
senting all that is taken. This is a sufficient cause of con- 
stipation in many people, and its natural cure is to imbibe more 
freely. Let the person drink a tumblerful of hot or cold water 
while dressing in the morning, a large cupful of coffee with the 
breakfast, a tumblerful of water, porter, beer, or other suitable 
drink with the mid-day meal, two or three cups of tea at teatime, 
and another tumbler of suitable liquid with the supper or while 
undressing at bedtime, and an improvement will very soon be 
observed. The water may be hot or cold, plain or aerated, 
Salutaris, ApoUinaris, seltzer, soda-water, or other alkaline water, 
linseed tea, or barley-water, which may be flavoured with any 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 487 

kind of fruit juice or syrup to the patient's taste, but the water 
should be as free as possible from salts of lime. 

When the constipation is due to chronic intestinal catarrh, 
mucous colitis, or some obstructive cause — e.^/., cancer or stricture 
of the bowel — the coarse and bulky vegetables must be avoided 
entirely. The food should be more concentrated than in ordinary 
constipation, materials which leave little residue being preferred. 
We may then allow soup, fish, game, poultry, fat ham or bacon, 
cream, butter; a little bread or potato, vegetable puree, spinach, 
vegetable marrow, squash, cauliflower (without stalk), green peas, 
kidney beans ; milk, milk puddings, custard, jelly; a little farina- 
ceous material, as fine oatmeal, biscuit powder, corn-meal, biscuit 
or zwiebach, and honey or treacle ; stewed fruit, strawberries, 
grapes, bananas, oranges, baked apples, stewed pears and prunes. 
The more threatening the obstruction becomes, the more necessary 
it will be to give a diet as free as possible from residue, such as 
milk, milk jelly, meat jelly, wine jelly, strong broth, ox-tail soup, 
lean and tender meat free from skin and gristle, chicken, chicken 
panada, and light fish. We must endeavour to secure regular 
evacuation of the bowels by the waters which contain sulphate 
of soda or by enemata. 

The clothing musfc be warm but light ; flannel of thickness 
proportioned to the season should be worn next the skin. Tight 
corsets or belts must be abandoned, and the under garments 
should hang from the shoulders instead of the hips. The feet 
must be kept warm and dry by good boots of moderate thickness, 
having an internal sole of cork or asbestos. 

Nothing renders constipation more obstinate than the repeated 
use of purgatives ; indeed, the persistent use of such drugs must 
of necessity cause catarrh of the bowels. Enemata of plain water, 
soap and water, demulcent liquids, like tragacanth or linseed 
tea, decoction of marsh mallow root or slippery elm bark, are 
proper to use. Olive oil injected at night and allowed to remain 
in the bowels will soften hard or scybalous masses. Glycerine 
suppositories or injections are a sufficient stimulant to the rectal 
tissues in some cases, and in children a soap suppository usually 
acts quickly. If aperients must be used, the best are sulphur, 
senna, castor oil, and the saline aperient waters of Carlsbad, 
Friedrichshall, Huuyadi Janos, Pullna, or Coudal, and others 



488 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

containing the sulphates of magnesia and soda ; but it is better, 
if possible, to act upon the bowels by alteration of the diet rather 
than by aperients. Tonics are proper when constipation arises 
from atony of the muscular tissues. Manipulations of the 
abdomen should be performed every morning for ten minutes on 
getting up, after emptying the bladder.^ These consist of deep 
and firm pressure or kneading, and rubbing the abdomen in 
a circular manner from right to left along the course of the 
colon ; it can usually be done by the patient. Now also is the 
time to drink a tumblerful of cold or hot plain water or a dose of 
aperient water. The patient should have a cold or tepid bath or 
a sponge down every morning, followed by brisk rubbing of the 
antire body, and particularly of the abdomen, with a flesh glove 
or a rough towel. During the day and at bedtime various 
exercises of a gymnastic character, designed to strengthen the 
abdominal muscles (see ' Diseases of the Liver '), should be 
performed for five or ten minutes. Brisk walking, golf, tennis, 
and horseback riding, are proper exercises, especially for those of 
sedentary occupation. But above all things the sufferer must 
give prompt and regular attention to 'the call of Nature'; even 
going to stool regularly to solicit Nature may in the end bring 
about the desired evacuation. 

Electricity is useful in constipation of an atonic character. 
The induced current will stimulate the abdominal muscles, but 
is insufficient to put in action the unstriped involuntary fibres of 
the intestine, especially when distended with gas or fseces ; the 
continuous current will, however, arouse intestinal action, even 
when disease has weakened the muscles and diminished their 
excitability.^ The poles should be applied along the course of 
the lumbar and sacral nerves to the region of the liver and along 
the large intestine. Each seance should last twenty minutes, 
and be repeated every day for two or three weeks. Electricity 
shortens the treatment by improving the nutrition of the mucous 
membrane, relieving blood-pressure, promoting metabolism, and 
giving tone to the muscular fibres. 

Hydropathic treatment is useful. A wet compress may be 
applied over the abdomen every night, and bound on by a flannel 
bandage ; a sitz-bath or cold sponging and friction should follow 
its removal in the morning. Once a day a douche of cold water 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 489 

may be administered to the loins and abdomen by means of a jet 
of water from a tap ; the stream should be allowed to play with 
considerable force for ten or fifteen minutes, and be followed by 
brisk friction with a towel and massage. 



DIARRHCEA AND DYSENTERY. 

A too frequent evacuation of the bowels may be due to many 
causes : the commonest are irritating food and impurities in the 
water or air. It may also be produced by chill or nervous 
influence, enteric catarrh, dysentery, cholera, malaria, typhoid 
or tubercular ulcerations, lardaceous disease, and various poisons 
in the blood. As in constipation, the term ' diarrhosa ' is a 
relative one. Some healthy persons are regularly moved two or 
three times a day, and do not feel so well when they are not ; 
but people who are usually only moved once a day or on alternate 
days when in health would consider two or three evacuations in 
a day to constitute diarrhoea, even though the stools were only 
soft and mushy. Much depends upon former habit and the 
cause of the disease. Looseness of the bowels is very common 
in the tropics during the rainy season and at other times, owing 
to atmospheric changes. Some people there may be said to be 
never free from it ; two or three evacuations occur every morning 
with a little griping pain. In such cases it may be salutary, 
especially when it follows excessive or unsuitable food. But 
whenever it continues throughout the day it should Ije regarded 
with suspicion, as tending towards dysentery or cholera. The 
mildest form of dysentery is attended with griping pain and bloody 
stools at intervals ; but in very acute cases the pain is of a 
cutting character, the abdomen tender, the evacuations very 
frequent, and perhaps contain patches of mucous membrane. 
' We eat or drink cholera ' — that is to say, the cause is some 
poison which enters the body with the food, such as bad water, 
used for drinking, cooking, or washing the utensils. Diarrhoea 
and cholera are most common in the summer or autumn, but 
they are promoted by alternate hot and wet weather, and checked 
by drought, heavy rain, or severe cold. They are most likely to 
affect people already broken down by disease, want, chronic 
alcoholism, and other conditions of ill-health. The better the 



490 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

water-supply, the drainage, and sewage disposal in a district, the 
less likely are they to occur. When a case of cholera occurs, 
the chief features are profuse watery evacuations from the bowels, 
looking like rice-water, vomiting, suppression of urine, pain and 
cramp in the extremities, coldness and blueness of the skin, and 
general collapse. 

The stools or evacuations in a case of diarrhoea necessarily vary 
in character with the cause ; in bilious diarrhoea they are hurried 
through the canal before time has been given for reabsorption 
of bile pigment, and they are consequently stained a brown or 
greenish-brown colour ; in lienteric diarrhoea the food is hurried 
rapidly along the canal, and curdled milk or other undigested 
food appears in the stools ; in colliq.uative diarrhoea it is a profuse 
exhausting liquid discharge ; in dysenteric there is much mucus 
and a frequent profuse discharge of blood ; in choleraic the stools 
are profuse and liquid, having the appearance of rice-water ; in 
fermentative diarrhoea they may be frothy or yeasty ; and in 
typhoid and other diseases they are characteristic of the com- 
plaint. 

The treatment of acute diarrhoea consists of absolute rest in 
the recumbent posture, avoiding movements of the body, and the 
application of warmth to the abdomen to give relief from griping 
or cramping pain. The administration of an aperient such as 
castor oil or rhubarb is an extremely useful measure, by removing 
the remnants of food or decomposing material which may 
irritate the mucous membrane. The diet should consist of 
boiled milk, plain or peptonized ; it may be drunk cold if it is 
preferred so, and diluted with barley-water, lime-water, or one of 
the aerated waters. The milk may have rice boiled in it (rice- 
milk), or may be thickened with a farinaceous material, such as 
arrowroot, cornflour, or biscuit powder ; the white of an 
egg may be put in each i pint, and a little flavouring of nut- 
meg or cinnamon. Sometimes milk in any form disagrees 
with cases of diarrhoea ; the patient may then have sago, tapioca, 
or rice, cooked in water until it is a jelly, and flavoured with nut- 
meg or cinnamon ; cream should be added after cooking. They 
may also have soup or meat essence thickened with flour, ground 
rice, or arrowroot. The best beverage is milk with an aerated 
water ; but if milk does not agree, a little port wine, brandy, or 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 491 

whisky, well diluted with an aerated water. When the diarrhoea 
is considered to be due to malaria, it is not advisable to check it, 
as this is one of Nature's ways of getting rid of it. Milk does not 
always agree with young children who have diarrhoea ; we may 
then have recourse to veal broth, chicken broth, or the white of 
an egg in a teacupful of boiled water, with a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of common salt and as much brandy, which mixture 
may be given freely. 

In acute forms of dysentery, with cutting pain and tenderness 
of the abdomen, hot applications, such as poultices, fomentations, 
or turpentine stupes, will be soothing ; the application of a few 
leeches to the abdomen is often beneficial. Vomiting may be 
checked by a mustard plaster over the pit of the stomach. The 
diet should consist of weak gruel, milk, raw eggs, weak broth, 
barley-water, and other demulcent drinks, and a little wine or 
diluted spirit may be necessary. Washing out the bowels by a 
simple douche of hot water or an alkaline or disinfectant lotion is 
sometimes beneficial. 

When cholera attacks a person, the treatment should be the 
same as for acute diarrhoea ; vomiting may be checked by ice, 
ice-water, effervescing draughts, brandy-and-soda, or champagne 
in small quantities. Collapse must be met by wrapping the 
patient in blankets, applying hot bottles to the feet and sides, 
and a hot-water bag or bran-bags to the abdomen ; cramp by 
friction to the limbs with mustard, cayenne pepper, or warm 
embrocation. Light nourishing food, consisting of eggs, milk, 
junket, custard, jelly, may be given as soon as vomiting is 
abated. 

When the diarrhoea is passing off, we must allow a gradual 
return to ordinary diet, by first giving clear soup, mutton or 
chicken broth, with a little dry toast or stale bread in it ; then 
custard, blanc-mange, or milk pudding ; next day a sole, plaice, 
or whiting, with a little mashed potato ; then boiled mutton or 
chicken. Care should be taken in future to avoid indiscretions 
in food, which may have caused or aggravated the complaint. 

In chronic diarrhoea, whatever the cause, the patient must avoid 
fat and greasy dishes, rich food in general, especially pork and 
veal, coarse and tough meat, hashed meat, beef-tea or strong 
meat essences, because they maintain the diarrhoea ; salted or 



492 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

dried meat ; pies, pastry, sweetened foods, and confectionery ; 
sweet wines, fruit syrups, and malt liquors. All food must be 
avoided which leaves a large and bulky residue in the bowels, 
as cabbage, savoy, salads, and many other vegetables ; nuts, 
brown bread, oatmeal, potatoes, sweet potatoes, yam, artichokes, 
and all laxative fruit, such as rhubarb, figs, prunes, dates, and 
most kinds of raw fruit. 

Alloiv a milk diet in preference to others ; but all food which is 
concentrated, small in bulk, unirritating, and leaves but little 
residue, may be given, and practically anything which has been 
passed through a fine hair sieve. Milk should be boiled, but may 
then be drunk warm or cold according to taste, and alone or with 
lime-water, barley-water, or an aerated water. Peptonized milk, 
peptonized milk gruel, milk-jelly, blanc-mange, custard, junket, 
and milk in the form of broth or soup, are suitable. Soup or 
broth of mutton, beef, veal, or fowl, thickened with flour, arrow- 
root, cornflour, or revalenta, may also be taken. Milk puddings 
of sago, rice, tapioca, arrowroot, macaroni, and plain biscuits, 
cracknel, crackers, zwiebach, and dry toast are also permitted. 
Eggs may be taken either poached, boiled, or scrambled ; also light 
kinds of fish (steamed), tripe and sweetbread. Chicken panada 
is serviceable. Meat such as beef or mutton can be taken raw, 
scraped or pounded, either alone or in jelly or port wine. In 
many instances we may allow a little underdone beef, mutton, 
fowl, or pheasant, but it must be entirely free from skin, fat, and 
gristle, and the total amount should not exceed 3 ounces a day, to 
be taken at two meals. The drink which is taken in addition to 
milk should not be a large quantity, and may consist of a little 
tea, cocoa, diluted spirits, sloe wine, or other good red wine. As 
recovery takes place we may make experiments from time to time 
with fish, chicken, or boiled mutton, a few grapes, a banana, 
tomato, baked apple, and so forth ; but extreme care is necessary, 
especially in chronic dysentery and malarial forms of the disease. 
In every case the meals should be small, and the food is less 
likely to cause looseness when taken cold or nearly so. Warm 
clothing is very necessary, and a flannel bandage around the 
abdomen is essential. 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 493 



ENTERIC CATARRH. 

Catarrh of the intestinal mucous membrane, especially the 
chronic form, is a very frequent disease. It is very often the 
result of local irritation — e.g., abuse of purgatives, improper or 
indigestible food, retention of the fa'ces in chronic constipation. 
Disturbances of the external circulation may cause catarrh of the 
intestines, which sometimes happens after severe burns or other 
injuries to the skin ; chronic intestinal catarrh may result from 
living in a cold, damp climate, or the long-continued action of 
coldness of the feet, lower extremities, or abdomen. The acute 
form of catarrh of the bov^els often follows mental excitement, 
distress, worry, and other severe nervous influences ; long-con- 
tinued mental trouble, worry, anxiety, or overwork is also a 
factor in causing many cases of chronic catarrh of the bowels. 
As a secondary affection it results from diseases of the liver, 
heart, or lungs, which obstruct the circulation through the 
principal veins and dam the blood up in those of the intestines, 
when congestion and intestinal catarrh is a frequent and common 
result. Severe or prolonged gastric disturbance, gastric catarrh, 
ulcer or cancer, may cause it. It is sometimes the result of 
chronic toxic conditions of the blood, such as uraemia, lithsemia, 
or malaria ; and it is almost a constant accompaniment of ulcera- 
tion of the bowels, especially of the colon, and of stricture or 
cancer.^ 

In acute intestinal catarrh diarrhoea is the chief symptom ; the 
mucous lining is congested and swollen, large quantities of mucus 
are secreted, and epithelial cells are easily detached. The irrita- 
tion of the mucous membrane induces increased intestinal move- 
ment, with frequent passage of loose or liquid motions of a pale 
yellow or greenish colour, containing flakes of more or less solid 
matter and masses of mucus ; the motion may also contain 
particles of undigested food, bacteria, and detached portions of 
the superficial lining.^ Pain of a griping, colicky nature occurs 
spasmodically, and vomiting sometimes occurs. It usually 
subsides in a few days with the treatment detailed under 
' Diarrhoea.' 

In chronic intestinal catarrh there is a considerable thickening 



494 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of the mucous lining, witii reddish-brown or slate-gray patches ; 
the glands and follicles are enlarged and covered with a tough 
gray secretion, and the muscular coat is frequently thickened. 
Severe forms of the disease lead to ulceration ; but this is most 
likely to occur in parts of the bowels where the faeces have been 
lodged or delayed, as in one of the flexures of the large intestine 
or in the neighbourhood of the appendix. Such an ulceration 
proceeds from within outwards, so that local peritonitis may 
occur and thereby prevent perforation, although it may cause an 
adhesion to a neighbouring organ. When catarrh is recurrent, 
the patient is liable to perityphlitis or appendicitis. 

The chronic intestinal catarrh of children nearly always runs 
its course as an obstinate and exhausting diarrhoea, which is 
liable to be mistaken for tuberculosis of the intestine or mesenteric 
glands, because the child wastes rapidly, the fat and muscles 
disappear, the skin hangs loosely, and he has a wizened and 
wrinkled countenance. This is nearly always the result of im- 
proper feeding ; the child thrives well while at the breast, but 
when he is deprived of his natural nourishment and fed upon 
poor milk or milk-pap, and has a crust or a dummy-teat thrust 
in his mouth to quiet him, he soon becomes ill. It is only by 
correct feeding that such a condition can be prevented. 

Adults with chronic intestinal catarrh are usually constipated. 
The tough masses of mucus hinder absorption and nutrition, and 
the patient becomes in consequence pale, thin, and weak. When 
decomposition takes place in the intestinal contents, gases are 
generated which distend the bowels and cause distressing flatu- 
lence, as a result of which the abdomen becomes distended and 
impedes the breathing by its pressure upon the diaphragm, and 
the circulation in various organs becomes disturbed — e.g., the 
brain — so that there is mental disturbance or a nervous condition 
similar to that in gastric catarrh. The flatulency and disturbance 
of nutrition, the constipation occasionally varied by diarrhoea, 
the physical and mental discomfort, may proceed to such a degree 
as to render the sufferer unfit for active physical or mental 
work. 

The general symptoms of catarrh of the alimentary canal are 
usually present, the secretion and activity of the stomach may 
or may not be affected, there is usually a diminution in the 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 495 

amount of hydrochloric acid present, but no general rule can be 
laid down.^ The abdomen, however, is nearly always tender on 
pressure, either generally or along the course of the colon. It is 
usually the irregularity of the bowels which causes the patient to 
seek advice. Constipation is the rule, but in some cases there 
is such an increase in the secretion of mucus and acceleration 
of movement as to constitute diarrhoea.^ The evacuations are 
often preceded by colic, and the stools are pale and free from 
bile, or contain undigested food (lienteric diarrhoea) or large 
quantities of mucus or bloody mucus. Catarrh of the small 
intestines may be attended with excessive secretion and move- 
ment, causing loud gurgling and rumbling in the abdomen, owing 
to movement of liquids and gases in that area ; nevertheless, 
the patient may be constipated, because time is given for 
absorption in the lower bowel. Where the catarrh chiefly 
affects the colon (mucous or membranous colitis) much mucus 
appears with the stools. Mucus from the small intestines is 
usually mixed in the motion ; but that from the large intestine 
covers the faeces, or may be evacuated alone, or be accompanied 
with flaky mucus, or membranous pieces of the epithelium, or even 
a fibrinous cast of some portion of the bowels. The abdominal 
circulation is defective in most cases, and in consequence of this 
sluggishness, especially through the veins, the hands and feet 
or the general surface of the body are nearly always cold. 

Few chronic diseases have a wider ramification, or produce 
more serious or persistent ill-health than chronic enteric catarrh. 
The patient has usually been in ill-health for months or years, 
with intermissions, before advice is sought. What was originally 
only a sensitive condition of the mucous membrane, with patches 
of congestion here and there, develops into a chronic inflam- 
matory process, with lowered nerve tone and really serious 
degeneration of the health, perhaps with profound nervous 
debility, anaemia, and secondary diseases of the heart or kidneys. 
The affection is a stubborn one, difficult to cure, and decidedly 
rebellious to the unaided action of drugs in all cases serious 
enough to badly affect the health.^ 

Drug treatment of the constipation — that is, by aperient pills 
and waters — is generally worse than useless, because they aggra- 
vate the complaint ; and the dietary recommended for ordinary 



496 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

constipation is by no means suitable for these cases. A similar 
remark applies also to the treatment of diarrhcea. Astringents 
are only of temporary value, and frequently do harm ; but when 
chronic catarrh or mucous colitis causes persistent diarrhoea, it is 
proper to keep the bowels clear of scybala and offensive or fer- 
menting substances by castor oil or enemata. 

The diet is a matter of the greatest importance ; it should not 
consist of the same articles recommended in the section on Con- 
stipation, but of substances as free as possible from any in- 
digestible or irritating residue ; it must especially be free from 
fibrous material, and the cellulose coverings and fibres of vege- 
tables and the seeds of fruits ; indeed, nothing should be swallowed 
that has not been passed through a fine sieve, or rendered so tine 
by mastication in the mouth that it is of a creamy consistence, 
and would pass through a sieve without residue. ^ It is necessary, 
therefore, to avoid all skins, strings, stones, and bones ; all skin 
and fibrous portions of flesh, fowl, and fish, scales of fish, the 
core of apples and pears ; skins of potato, tomato, and other fruit ; 
the white, pulpy portion of oranges ; the seeds of grapes, currants, 
strawberries, gooseberries, figs, and other fruit ; the fibrous por- 
tions of vegetables like cabbage, savoy, seakale, cauliflower, 
turnip, carrot, or parsnip, except such portion as has been passed 
through a hair sieve ; also all salted, smoked, or dried meat, 
hard-boiled eggs, cheese, brown bread, rye-bread, coarse oatmeal, 
hot buttered toast, new bread, crumpets, muffins, pastry, boiled 
pudding ; nuts, almonds, dried raisins, and currants ; peas and 
beans ; sardines, pilchards, and whitebait. 

Generally speaking, anything may he allowed in the form of 
fish, meat, game, fruit, or vegetable which has been passed 
through a hair sieve.-' The patient may have stale bread which 
crumbles under the finger and thumb {avoid crust), bread-and- 
butter, plain biscuits, crackers, or rusks, providing they are 
masticated to the consistence of cream before they are swal- 
lowed ; also sponge cake, Madeira cake, and dry toast if well 
masticated. 

Soup thick or clear may be allowed. All kinds of herbs or vege- 
tables may be boiled in the soup, providing they are removed ; 
or a consomme may be made by boiling meat and all kinds of 
vegetables together for a long time until the whole is a jelly 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 497 

and then straining it for the patient ; or soup may be flavoured 
with essence of celery, ketchup, or tomato sauce ; vermicelH or 
macaroni may be cooked in it, or a little dry toast or bread eaten 
with it. 

Flesh. — The patient may have the gravy from any kind of 
meat ; also tongue, potted meat, scraped meat, poultry or game 
light fish, and raw or soft-boiled eggs. As the treatment goes 
on, we may experiment with food which has not been passed 
through a sieve, such as sole, plaice, whiting, brill, or turbot, 
avoiding the skin, bones, and heating sauces ; then with rabbit, 
chicken, or pheasant, taking care not to swallow skin or sinew ; 
finally with mutton or beef, cutting out every particle of skin 
and stringy or fibrous material. Boiled tongue and potted meat 
are very suitable forms of meat for these cases. 

The vegetables allowable are vegetable marrow, spinach, puree 
of potato or well-mashed potato, and any other vegetable which 
has been passed through a sieve. In mucous colitis, Von Noorden 
considers a diet rich in cellulose, therefore of coarser vegetables, is 
better than resting the organ. i*^ 

Pudding. — Eice, sago, tapioca, providing they are perfectly 
soft ; also cornflour, arrowroot, blanc-mange, custard, junket, and 
farinaceous materials, such as fine oatmeal, revalenta, and other 
prepared foods, especially those containing milk powder. All 
kinds of jelly are admissible, providing they contain no solid 
substances like fruit, and the syrup of jam or marmalade, honey, 
treacle, apple, quince or guava jelly. 

Fruit, — Cooked apples or plums, a ripe banana, or a few grapes, 
care being taken to remove all skins and stones, cores and fibrous 
portions. Pears are forbidden because they contain numerous 
small, hard particles, besides the core, which are irritating. Easp- 
berries, strawberries, currants, and oranges can be rubbed through 
a sieve to remove skin and seeds ; they may then be sweetened, 
and eaten alone, with cream, or as an accompaniment to milk 
pudding. 

Drink may consist of China tea or coffee in moderation, of 
cocoa freely, or acorn cocoa in cases of diarrhoea; milk, cream, 
butter-milk, whey, or water. Milk should be drunk freely, and 
in many cases it must be one of the staple foods, when, of course, 
•i pints a day would be considered a fair amount ; if it is not 

32 



498 ■ FOOD AND HYGIENE 

well borne, it may be mixed with a farinaceous food, or peptonized, 
or given with lime or barley water, or one of the natural alkaline 
waters, or with a gaseous water, such as soda or potash, to 
prevent the formation of hard, indigestible curds, which would be 
a source of irritation. Plenty of water or other liquid is an 
advantage in constipation, but may be a disadvantage if diarrhoea 
is persistent. 

When diarrhoea is a marked feature of the disease milk is not 
always tolerated ; neither is beef-tea, nor meat or vegetables, even 
in the form of puree or consomme. We must then begin by giving 
a farinaceous diet of gruel made of the finest oatmeal, baked 
wheat flour, cornflour, revalenta or biscuit powder, or rice or 
sago done to a jelly, one of the forms of milk powder being mixed 
with these to supply proteid material. Other proteids may be 
given in the form of an egg every four or six hours, raw, poached, 
or soft-boiled ; or the white of an egg beaten up may be given in 
a little lemon-water or in farinaceous food ; and raw meat juice 
or meat jelly (of which several good kinds are sold) may be given. 
When a little improvement is made, and these foods are borne 
without increasing the diarrhoea, we may experiment with others, 
such as a little scraped meat, light fish, tripe, sweet bread, tongue, 
and mashed potato ; but we must proceed cautiously, gradually 
increasing the variety and solidity of the food until the list is 
similar to that given above. Cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg are 
useful flavouring agents of benefit to the patient ; red wine, such 
as sloe or whortleberry wine, a little good old port or Hungarian, 
may also be allowed. 

A form of intestinal catarrh called hill diarrhcea occurs in 
certain elevated districts in many regions of the earth, as, for 
instance, in the Himalayas or Neilgherries of India ; it may be 
due to malaria, fever, insanitary surroundings, the rainy season, 
strumous habit of body, or to having newly arrived in the dis- 
trict. ^^ Sprue is also a chronic form of enteric catarrh occurring 
in the tropics, in which there are erosions of the mouth and 
dribbling of saliva, pain in eating and swallowing, and frequent 
motions are passed without pain or straining. The treatment of 
these must be on the lines already laid down, but food must 
consist chiefly of milk, rice-milk, white of eggs, arrowroot, corn- 
flour, weak animal broth, soup made jrom liver, r&w meat juice or 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 499 

jelly, calf's-foot jelly, and minced meat. Liver soup is especially 
recommended ; and toddy, the fermented juice of the^ cocoanut 
palm, is said to be a specific. Many cases of enteric catarrh do 
well so long as only unirritating food is taken ; in others no kind 
of vegetables can be taken in their ordinary form until long after 
the stools have become normal, for there is frequently a return of 
diarrhoea or of mucus after a few meals containing them. Sprue 
and hill diarrhoea are such cases ; while the patient keeps to 
a milk diet he is moderately well, but very frequently any diver- 
gence from that leads to trouble ; and although milk is considered 
by most practitioners as the best food for such people, Cantlie^^ 
condemns it and considers it to be unsatisfactory. He recom- 
mends a meat diet as being far better than milk, and some others 
agree that meat cures quicker than milk. Cantlie recommends 
the patient to begin with meat juice, then beef jelly or calf's-foot 
jelly, and pounded meat ; and by the sixth day the patient should 
take three meals, each consisting of 4 ounces of finely-minced 
beef ; and on the eighth day meat from any joint or chicken may 
be taken, but the under-cut of roast beef is the best. China tea, 
or tea made from roasted rice, may be taken. As soon as the 
stools are fairly solid vegetables are allowed, especially vegetable 
marrow, stewed celery, or seakale ; also pulled bread and baked 
bread — the latter consisting of thin slices of bread which have 
been baked in a hot oven for about twenty minutes until they are 
dry and crisp. Suet puddings and rice, cooked as it is for a curry, 
may be eaten quite early in the treatment, but it is a long time 
before milk puddings can be taken by all patients. Strawberries 
were highly recommended by Thin as a cure for sprue, and this 
receives the support of Manson and Cantlie ; they are not to take 
the place of other food, but may be eaten between meals to the 
extent of 3 or 4 pounds daily. 

Hygiene. — It is absolutely necessary to keep the bowels clear, 
to prevent fermentation or decomposition and subsequent absorp- 
tion of toxins or an increase of the catarrh. In chronic diarrhoea 
a teaspoonful of castor oil or a small dose of sulphur every 
morning is useful for this purpose ; they act as muscular stimu- 
lants, help to check the looseness, and are not so depressing to 
the general system as many aperients. When constipation is 

32—2 



500 ■ FOOD AND HYGIENE 

a marked feature of colitis or enteric catarrh a large daily dose 
of castor oil is the best aperient, and the effect of taking it day 
by day is sometimes marvellously curative. In other cases 
injections are far better than aperient pills and medicines given 
by the mouth. Hard masses of faeces are best softened by injec- 
tions of olive oil v^hen going to bed. Cleanliness of the bovpel is 
essential, and this is best obtained by douches or injections of 
hot normal saline solution, boracic lotion, oatmeal water, or 
other demulcent liquid, like decoction of marsh mallow root or 
slippery elm bark, or infusion of tragacanth, to which some 
boracic acid is added ; these solutions should be used hot, at 
105° to 110° F., when they will have the same sedative effect 
as a fomentation, and improve the circulation of the whole 
abdomen. At Carlsbad these cases are treated by douches of 
3 litres of the Sprudel natural water at 45° C, which is poured 
into the bowels from a height of 85 centimetres ; the patient lies 
upon the side while a long, soft rubber tube is inserted as far as it 
will go without bending by a gentle twisting movement, the outer 
end of the tube being attached to a vessel which contains the 
water ; the patient lies upon the back, and a warm bag is applied 
to the abdomen while the liquid is poured in (Aldor). The water 
of Plombieres is used in a similar manner, and is highly recom- 
mended by Brunton. The first douche consists of 1 litre, but is 
increased in amount daily until 3 litres are used. Lavage, or 
douching the bowels, can be done at home in a similar manner 
with the same waters or by lotions made in imitation of them, or 
those named above, and this treatment is highly recommended. 
Herschell^^ recommends almost continuous lavage by a special 
apparatus. 

Hot baths, followed by massage, electricity, and abdominal 
exercises, are also useful to improve the circulation and tone of 
the muscles, and a wet pack or medicated compress worn over 
the abdomen and bound on by a flannel bandage every night is 
beneficial. 

The amount and kind of exercise must depend upon the nature ' ^ 
of the case ; if there is marked diarrhoea, then quietness should 
be the rule, fresh air being taken by sitting in a garden or driving if 
in an easy carriage. When constipation prevails, riding, golfiug, \^ 
tennis, and most other out-of-door exercises, are valuable, and r 



i' 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 501 

gymnastic exercises assist in establishing the tone of the abdominal 
muscles and the circulation. 

The clothing is also important ; it should be neither light nor 
heavy, but it must be warm ; the weight should hang from the 
shoulders, a flannel bandage should be worn around the abdomen, 
and woollen under-garments, of weight proportionate to the season, 
are essential. 

APPENDICITIS. 

The severe form of enteric catarrh which affects the csecum and 
its appendix merits a separate paragraph. Collections of faeces in 
the ciecum and ascending colon cause catarrh of that region, 
attended by pain or tenderness, and there may be alternate loose- 
ness and constipation. These premonitory signs do not always 
occur, but whether they do or do not, the muscular fibres of the 
colon lose their power of contraction, so that the contents of the 
small intestine tend to lodge in the ctecum and cause catarrh. As 
the result of chill, over-exertion, or some undiscoverable cause, 
the constipation becomes complete ; then there may be vomiting, 
first of the contents of the stomach and later of the bowels. A 
severe pain occurs on the right side of the abdomen, and is 
increased on the slightest pressure ; it may extend over the whole 
abdomen, and sometimes alternates with intervals of ease. An 
examination reveals dulness and a sausage-shaped swelling in the 
affected region, which sometimes extends up the right side as high 
as the ribs. An improvement generally begins after the passage 
of several motions obtained by the administration of castor oil 
and enemata. But the disease does not always take this favour- 
able turn ; the inflammation may involve the peritoneum, the 
surrounding cellular tissue, or the muscles. The pain then 
becomes more acute and extends to the thigh, the swelling loses 
its sausage-shape and become broader, and the patient lies upon 
his side with the thighs drawn up to the body ; it is now called 
perityphlitis. It also may take a favourable turn, or terminate 
in an abscess. Many cases formerly described as typhlitis or 
perityphlitis arise from disease in the vermiform appendix, called 
appendicitis, which may arise cle loco or as an extension of catarrh 
from the caecum. The appendix is an organ of lower vitality and 



502 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

less resistance than the rest of the intestinal canal ;^^ it is like- 
wise a cul-de-sac and bodies may get lodged in it — e.g., bristles, 
seeds of fruit, fish bones, little masses of faecal matter, and many 
other substances. Micro-organisms, especially the Bacillus coll 
communis, are always present in the intestine, and at any oppor- 
tune moment, as in the presence of irritating secretions, they may 
excite inflammation and lead to suppuration. Catarrh of the 
caecum, extending to the mouth of the appendix, may cause it 
to swell and obstruct the passage, so that the cavity becomes 
distended by its own secretion, or the appendix swells and 
becomes infiltrated, its cavity similarly becoming distended by 
catarrhal products or pus. Ulceration, perforation, or gangrene 
of the appendix are common results ; in any case the peritoneum 
is likely to become involved and adhesions formed. The onset of 
appendicitis is usually sudden, although there may have been 
a previous attack of catarrh of the ctecum, with obstinate con- 
stipation and severe pain. Usually the patient is seized with 
severe pain diffused all over the abdomen or confined to the right 
side, with tenderness at a particular spot ; the abdomen is tense 
and rigid, constipation is marked, and there may be vomiting, 
feverishness, and malaise. If the attack continues, the pain and 
swelling increase, rigors and sweating occur, which indicate the 
formation of pus and perhaps septic absorption. "When this stage 
is reached, relief usually only follows surgical interference. In 
the more favourable cases absolute rest, milk diet, ice to suck, 
and hot poultices or cold compresses, may subdue the inflamma- 
tion ; the pain and swelling then gradually subside and disappear 
in fourteen to twenty-one days from the commencement. Second 
or third attacks may occur in the same person after intervals of 
months or years, owing to the presence of a foreign body in the 
appendix or a repetition of the exciting cause. Surgical treat- 
ment is by no means necessary in all cases of appendicitis, but 
probably in about one-third of the whole, which include recurrent 
or relapsing appendicitis, suppuration, or a suspicion of diffuse 
peritonitis being caused by it, and in very severe attacks of acute 
appendicitis in young subjects. ^-^ 

Preventive treatment will do much good in persons who have 
suffered from enteric catarrh, perityphlitis, and those who have 
had one attack of appendicitis, for which purpose careful treat- 



DISEASES OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL 503 

ment, on the lines laid down under enteric catarrh, is especially 
important. Nothing is more likely to bring on an attack of 
appendicitis than the consumption of indigestible food. Meat, 
fish, game, and eggs appear to be harmless when taken in proper 
proportions, and due care is taken to avoid the indigestible por- 
tions ; but it is extremely necessary, when a person has had an 
attack of appendicitis, to reduce such indigestible portions of 
food to the smallest quantity. The consumption of fruit is 
a matter which requires consideration ; in most cases an 
abundance of cooked apples, rhubarb, plums, peaches, and pears 
may be taken, also grapes or tomatoes after removing the seeds ; 
it is proper, however, to reject all berries, figs, and other fruit 
from which the seeds cannot be removed, lest the lodgment 
of these small particles should set up appendicitis, and the fact 
of their being occasionally found in the appendix supports the 
view that they do sometimes cause it. But when the bowel is 
healthy there need be no fear of such an untoward accident, and 
it is then unnecessary to curtail the dietary • on the contrary, the 
free use of raspberries, strawberries, currants, and grapes,^'' or 
other fruit, by preventing or overcoming constipation, is one of the 
surest means of preventing this dangerous disease. It is only 
when such a disease as enteric catarrh already exists or appen- 
dicitis has previously attacked a person that excessive care need 
be exercised in the consumption of fruit and vegetables. 

Constipation is a cause of catarrh of the caecum or its appendix 
and of obstruction to its canal. Faecal stagnation leads to the 
formation of concretions in the caecum or appendix, and disposes 
to bacterial development, fermentation, putrefaction, and mild or 
severe inflammation. Proper regulation of the diet will insure 
relief from constipation, and by securing good intestinal drainage, 
with more or less antisepsis, will materially reduce the risks of 
appendicitis. Plenty of liquid should be taken. There is nothing 
so important to digestion and elimination as water for all people 
in health and disease ; but a large proportion of civilized people 
do not take enough. It should never be forgotten that 4 pints 
of liquid are required daily to supply the loss of water through 
the skin, lungs, and kidneys. Allowing 1 or 1|- pints to be 
consumed in the food, 2^ to 3 pints should be drunk daily. 
Pure water is by far the best ; but other beverages may be 



504 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

allowed. If people would drink more, there would be fewer cases 
of enteric catarrh and appendicitis. 

Exercise is good in all other conditions of health or ill-health. 
But excessive muscular effort in rowing, running, jumping, or 
cycling has been a factor in causing appendicitis in people pre- 
disposed to it, and should be guarded against. 

References : ^ Schrieber, JFie^i. Med. Pressc, 1895, 21, 22. ^ Cleaves, 
Internat. Med. Mag., 1902, xi , 599. ^ Coats' • Pathology.' ^ Ibid. » Ewald, 
Internal. Med. Mag., 1902, xi., 578. « Liclity, ihid., 609. ^ /^/^^^ q^I. 
® Brun ton's ' Disorders of Digestion.' "^ Ihid. ^^ Berl. Klin. IVoch. {Brit. Med. 
Jour., June 15, 1901). ^^ Moore's 'Diseases in India.' i- Cantlie, Brit. Med. 
Jour., 1905, ii.. 1281. ^^ Herschell, Internat. Med. Mag., 1902, xi., 582. 
" White, Therap. Gazette [Brit. Med. Joiir., 1895, i., Epitome, 110). ^-^ Bene- 
dict, Internat. Med. Mag.. 1902, xi. , 592. ^^ Illoway, iVew; Fo7'Jc Med. Jour., 
February 21, 1903 : and the following works: Nothnagel's 'Practice'; Osier's 
'Medicine"; Taylor's 'Medicine'; Yeo's ' Medical Treatment '; Bruce's ' Materia 
Medica and Therapeutics'; Niemeyer'a 'Medicine'; Bristowe's 'Medicine'; 
Roberts' 'Medicine'; Green's 'Pathology.' 



CHAPTEE XXIII 
DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 

Gastric digestion consists of the conversion of proteids to 
peptones. Starch and sugar are also broken down in the 
stomach, cane-sugar is converted to dextrose, and the product 
is gradually transferred to the intestines. The acid chyme 
mingles with the alkaline bile and pancreatic fluid. Bile preci- 
pitates the proteids and prepares them for the action of the 
pancreatic ferments ; it also emulsifies and saponifies fat. The 
pancreatic fluid converts starch into sugar (maltose), and proteids 
into peptones, leucin, and tyrosin. The products of digestion are 
absorbed by the tributaries of the portal and lymphatic systems. 
The greater part of the proteids — sugar, salts, water, and a little 
fat — reach the liver, where some of the proteid and most of the 
carbohydrates are stored. The functions of the liver are the 
production of glycogen, urea, and bile. Glycogen is the form in 
which carbohydrate is stored in the liver. It accumulates in the 
liver cells, and so prevents the system from being flooded by it 
after each meal, and is reconverted by an enzyme into sugar as 
it is required for use. Urea is the end-product of nitro^f^nons 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 505 

metabolism in man, and under normal circumstances it is prac- 
tically the only way in which nitrogen leaves the system. All 
proteids are decomposed into it. The partially oxidized nitro- 
genous substances which are excreted may be considered as 
antecedents of urea. Bile is secreted by the liver, mingles with 
the food in the bowels, and assists in chylification. Some of the 
bile leaves the system with the faeces ; but most of the bile salts 
are reabsorbed from the bowel, and re-enter the liver by the 
portal vein, to be again formed into bile. There is thus a bile 
circulation from liver to bowels, through the portal vein, and 
back again to the liver. 

The production of urea is a very important function of the 
liver. As a general rule the urea excretion is equivalent to 
0-5 gramme per kilo of body-weight, and averages 33 grammes 
per diem in a man weighing 150 pounds. Its production is 
naturally influenced by the kind and amount of food taken, and 
somewhat by the work done. Most urea is excreted when 
proteid food alone is taken ; it may then rise to 80 grammes 
per day. Least urea is excreted when carbohydrate food alone is 
taken, when it may sink to 18 or 12 grammes. When no food at 
all is taken — that is, in starvation — there is still an excretion of 
about 10 grammes per diem. Eest or work does not make much 
difference to the urea excretion, providing the usual food is taken 
and proper metabolism is maintained. During rest it falls a 
little below the normal, and during an ordinary day's work it 
rises to 37 grammes per day. Now, 1 gramme of urea contains 
as much nitrogen as 3 grammes of proteid. If, therefore, 
33 grammes of urea are excreted in twenty-four hours, there 
must have been a consumption of 99 grammes of proteid. The 
amount of proteid used by the body can be roughly estimated 
by the daily output of urea, for when all the proteid eaten is 
assimilated it causes an excretion of an equivalent amount of 
urea, or else it adds to the weight of the body by the formation 
of fat. A nitrogenous equilibrium is said to be established when 
the amount of urea excreted represents the quantity of proteid 
eaten, the body neither losing nor gaining weight. 

Although the ultimate destination of all the proteids of the 
body and of the food is to be eliminated as urea, carbonic acid, 
and water, they pass through various stages before they arrive 



506 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

at the lowest terms. Bodies in the intermediate stage are creatin, 
creatinin, sarcosin, carnin, leucin, tyrosin, glycin, xanthin, hypo- 
xanthin, and uric acid. The intermediate bodies are contained 
in or produced from our food and the cellular tissues of the body. 
The oxidation which goes on in the muscles reduces some of 
them to uric acid and urea ; but others escape from the muscular 
tissues in the intermediate forms. The kidneys have the power 
of reducing uric acid ; but the work of completing the destruc- 
tion of proteids falls chiefly upon the liver, which is the great 
depurating organ of the body. Creatin, leucin, tyrosin, etc., are 
types of partially oxidized nitrogenous substances. It is im- 
possible to say whether their metamorphosis proceeds on the 
same or different lines, but the end-product is chiefly urea. 
Leucin and tyrosin are the result of the pancreatic digestion of 
proteid. Creatin is always found in muscle and urine, but the 
amount in the urine is never sufficient to represent that formed 
in the muscles. Some of it is decomposed into sarcosin and 
urea.^ ^ 

The alloxur, or purin bodies, include uric acid, xanthin, hypo- 
xanthin, adenin, guanin, and methylxanthin (i.e., caffeine and 
theobromine). These substances arise from nucleo-proteids, 
which are compounds of proteid with nuclein found in the 
nucleus and protoplasm of cells. Nucleo-proteids contain a 
high percentage of phosphorus, and most of them also contain 
iron. Indeed, the normal supply of iron and phosphorus for 
the body is contained in the nucleo-proteids, or haematogens, of 
animal and vegetable cells. In the system, nucleo-proteid splits 
into proteid and nuclein ; nuclein into proteid and nucleic acid ; 
and nucleic acid into purin bases, phosphoric acid, etc.^ By 
their oxidation, therefore, the purin bodies give rise to uric acid. 
Now, uric acid is trioxypurin, and is normally excreted by human 
beings to the extent of 1 gramme per day. It is derived from 
the nuclei of cells and from the other purin bodies. Certain 
forms of food increase the production of uric acid by leading to 
excessive formation or destruction of leucocytes. It is also 
manufactured synthetically in the body by the union of glycin 
with urea, and ammonia with lactic acid. But the main source 
of uric acid and other purin bodies is the nuclein and similar 
substances in the food. Uric acid is the form in which nitrogen 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 507 

is normally excreted by slow-breathing reptiles ; and an excess 
of it occurs in the urine of people who eat too much proteid food 
and take too little exercise, or in feverish conditions (in the form 
of urates), when the demand for oxygen exceeds the supply. The 
formation of uric acid in man, when it exceeds 1 gramme a day, 
must be looked upon as unnatural or as a divergence from the 
normal lines of metabolism. We know that various organs in 
the body have for one of their functions the destruction of organic 
material. The spleen is such an organ. It removes from the 
blood the red corpuscles which are unfit to make a tour of the 
body and perform their functions, and their destruction is a 
source of the purin bodies. Extract of spleens clearly show that 
such destruction takes place there, for uric acid, leucin, xanthin, 
hypoxanthin, etc., are abundant in it. These substances are 
carried by the blood from the spleen to the liver, and are 
normally converted into urea. It is only when the transforma- 
tion of such substances into urea is interfered with that uric acid 
is formed and excreted to excess. Uric acid and all other purin 
bodies therefore exist in our food — such as meat, fish, beef-tea, 
gravy, meat extract — and are formed from the nuclein or nucleo- 
proteids which exist in all animal and vegetable cells. 

The purin bodies are endogenous or exogenous, according as 
they are formed within the body from its own cells or tissues 
or taken into the body with our food. The endogenous purin 
is formed in the body from the destruction of the cellular 
elements and from metabolic processes incurred in maintaining 
the bodily functions. About 50 per cent, of it is transformed by 
the liver into urea and 50 per cent, is eliminated by the kidneys 
as uric acid and its allies. The exogenous purin, which is taken 
into the body with the food, is also excreted as uric acid and its 
allies to the extent of 50 per cent., and the remaining 50 per cent, 
is transformed by the liver into urea. But all the purin consumed 
with the food is not absorbed into the system. There appears to 
be a personal equation in the matter, one person being able to 
absorb more purin bodies and nuclein than another. There is a 
normal daily excretion of purin bodies in the faeces, called the 
fsecal purin, to distinguish it from that which is excreted by the 
kidneys, and called urinary purin. The amount of fsecal purin 
necessarily varies with the kind of food taken,* and is much 



508 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

greater when substances are eaten which are rich in nuclein and 
its purin derivatives. It was found by Walker Hall ^ that when 
a person ate 500 grammes of sweet-bread, 60 per cent, of the 
purins were absorbed and 40 per cent, were voided in the faeces. 

The excretion of purin is also influenced by the kind and amount 
of food, the quantity varying w^ith meat, milk, or vegetables. 
With ordinary diet the exogenous or nutritive purin remains the 
same in most people ; that is to say, the same ability to absorb 
it existing in all people, the excretion will be the same. Most 
purin is excreted with a vegetarian diet, because of the large 
proportion of nuclein which it contains. Least purin is excreted 
when the food consists solely of milk, eggs, cream, butter, cheese, 
rice, potato, green vegetables, and white bread, which form a 
Ijurin-free diet. Meat, and especially sweet-bread, milt (spleen), 
brain, liver, and kidneys, causes a considerable increase in the 
amount of purin excreted. The percentage of purin substances 
in beef and veal is 0-06, calf's liver 0*12, calf's spleen 0-16, 
calf's thymus 0'4, and in coffee 0-2. They cause an excretion of 
exogenous purin in the urine equal to — beef and veal 0*03 per 
cent., liver 0'06, spleen 0'08, thymus 0*1, and coffee Q'OlbS' 
Uric acid, leucin, xanthin, and hypoxanthin are abundant in 
spleen ; nuclein, xanthin, hypoxanthin, guanin, and adenin are 
all excessive in sweet-bread ; lean meat contains xanthin, hypo- 
xanthin, sarcolactic acid, and other extractives ; liver is rich 
in glycin, uric acid, and all the other purin bodies ; beef-tea, 
gravy, and extract or essence of meat contain a large proportion 
of such substances. The consumption of all these materials as 
food must increase the amount of purins in the body, and unless 
the excretion of uric acid and the allied purins take place in 
proportion to the consumption, they accumulate in the system 
and cause disease. Tea, coffee, cocoa, and all the vegetable 
stimulants, contain caffeine or theobromine— that is, methyl- 
xanthin — and their consumption increases the exogenous or 
nutrition purin, which affords an explanation of their injurious 
effect in such a disease as gout. Many vegetable foods, such as 
peas, beans, and asparagus, likewise contain a large proportion of 
purin bodies, and, if eaten, increase the amount of purin in the 
body. We have already observed that about 50 per cent, of the 
purin bodies absorbed from the food, or originating within the 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 509 

body from the destruction of blood and other cells, is transformed 
by the liver into urea and excreted in that condition. The re- 
maining purin bodies are oxidized and excreted by the kidneys 
as uric acid, oxaluric acid, allantoin, hypoxanthin, xanthin, etc. 
A purin-free diet, such as that given above, does not give rise to 
purin bodies in the urine, and when a patient is entirely fed with 
it for a space of time, whatever purin is found in the urine 
must arise from the destruction of nuclein derived from his 
own tissues, and this amount, being ascertained, is taken as the 
measure of endogenous purin formation ; in other words, of the 
metabolic activity. 

The total amount of nitrogen excreted daily in the fcieces is 
normally about 1-39 grammes, and, speaking generally, the 
amount which can be recovered from the stools may be taken as 
a measure of the indigestibility of nitrogenous food or the patient's 
inability to absorb it. The larger the proportion of nitrogen 
which can be obtained from the faeces, the less completely has 
the food been absorbed in the alimentary canal. It varies with 
the diet, being greatest on a purely vegetarian diet. Thus in the 
case of a young vegetarian the total nitrogen in his f^ces was 
4-01, and in his urine 6-91 grammes daily." But given the same 
diet, the same individual normally excretes daily the same 
amount of purin bodies in the faces. This has to be estimated 
in experiments on general metabolism, but clinically small 
variations are neglected. In diarrhoea and intestinal catarrh the 
purin bodies in the faeces are increased by the shedding of cells 
from the mucous membrane ; in bronchial and pharyngeal catarrh 
a certain amount of nuclein is lost in the same way ; and in 
catarrh of the bladder a small quantity of nucleo-albumin is 
found in the urine ; but the remaining tissue cells pass their 
nuclein into the circulating fluids of the body, and it reaches the 
liver in the usual way, and is the chief source of endogenous 
purm formation. 

Auto-intoxication. — Purin bodies are not the only substances 
in our food which give rise to ill-health when their elimination is 
imperfect, nor are they the only substances produced within the 
body which are capable of causing symptoms which must be 
regarded as poisoning. Cholin and neurin are substances deve- 
loped from the lecithin of eggs and other kinds of food in the 



510 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

intestines, more especially when the digestion is interfered with ; 
they are also produced by bacteria acting in the same region.^ 
Seeds rich in albumin contain a large proportion of lecithin 
arising as a product of their assimilation and metabolism ;^ they 
form a source of lecithin to human beings, and also of cholin and 
neurin when they are not properly digested and assimilated. 
Cholin and neurin are very poisonous, and have a powerful 
effect upon the nervous system ; they enfeeble the circulation, 
induce fainting fits and fatty degeneration of the heart, which 
effects are often seen in general paralysis. ^'^ 

Poisoning of the body by a substance produced within it is 
called auto-intoxication. The alimentary canal is one of the 
chief sources of materials which are capable of producing auto- 
intoxication. When the digestion is interfered with, peristalsis 
hindered, or absorption delayed, various toxins are liable to be 
produced by chemical or bacterial action. The retention of such 
toxic materials within the system is productive of trouble in 
many ways. Catarrhal jaundice is an instance of the retention 
in the body of substances which are not normally retained. 
Cholaemia may arise from several causes — e.g., the absorption of 
poisonous products from the alimentary canal ; glyktemia is 
associated with diseases of the pancreas ; and gout is due to 
uratsemia." Migraine and tetanus also probably depend upon 
auto-intoxication arising from the alimentary canal.^^ Alkaloidal 
substances are found in the urine, vomit, and faeces in cases of 
tetanus, pernicious anaemia, phthisis, and Graves' disease ; and a 
number of products arising from the destruction of albumin pass 
out of the body in the urine. The chief source of the poisonous 
metabolic products is albumin ; they include acids, gases, 
ptomaines, leucomaines, tox-albumins, and enzymes. Other 
toxic products also give rise to ammonaemia, hydrothionaemia,. 
acetonemia, and intoxication by organic acids. 

Diseases of metabolism include insufficient assimilation and' 
elaboration of foodstuffs, gout, obesity, diabetes, anaemia,., 
chlorosis, etc. When, owing to defective metabolism and 
elimination, the human organism is unable to protect itself 
against toxic effects, we have diseases of the liver, kidneys,, 
digestive disturbances, gout, lithtemia, gravel, rheumatism,,, 
nervous affections, etc. 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 511 



FUNCTIONAL DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

Functional diseases of the liver are very common. If the liver 
is torpid the bile will be deficient, and consequently the digestion 
and absorption of food from the intestines will be imperfect. 
Not only is the bile-producing function defective, but the liver is 
embarrassed and unable to perform properly its other functions 
connected with metabolism. 

The common causes of liver derangement are the food or the 
air, or a disproportion between the two. An excess of food, 
especially ' rich ' food, meat, highly-seasoned dishes, sauces, and 
alcohol, will cause it. Sometimes it is due to an imperfect 
oxygenation of the blood, which is the result of deficient 
respiration or circulation caused by a sedentary occupation, 
luxurious habits, insufficient exercise, or working in hot and 
ill-ventilated rooms in which the air is necessarily impure. 
There is a combination of such causes in many cases. The effect 
of an absence of fresh air, light, and exercise is to cause a 
retention in the liver of the products of its activity. It becomes 
blocked with bile, urea, uric acid, and glycogen, and it is torpid 
in consequence. It is very often a result of town life. The 
derangement of the liver is manifested in various ways ; the 
urine contains an excess of uric acid and other purin bodies, 
sometimes products of digestion, such as leucin, tyrosin, or sugar, 
and an excess of colouring matter. The bile is altered in quality 
and quantity ; it may be in excess or deficient. There may be 
bilious diarrhoea with vomiting, constipation with foul and pale 
stools, or the bile may become concentrated or inspissated in the 
bile channels or gall-bladder, and form gall-stones. The general 
system is markedly affected by reason of the circulation in the 
blood of the products of disordered metabolism ; the liver being 
unable to deal with these materials, an excess of urea, uric acid, 
urates, purin bodies, bile salts, and other deleterious substances 
which the liver ought to dispose of is circulated through the 
system by the general blood current. The muscular system 
suffers because the waste products of metabolism are not 
removed, and because of the impurity of the blood which 
circulates through them, with the consequence that weakness, 



512 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

aching, weariness, and trembling are common. The skin may be 
tinged with yellow, itchy, and uncomfortable. The circulation 
of these materials through the liquids of the body affects even 
the sight, so that the vision is dull and little specks may be seen 
floating before the eyes. The sensitive nervous system is deeply 
impressed, so that languor, irritability of temper, depression, 
misery, headache, backache, drowsiness, and inability to concen- 
trate the thoughts upon one's business, are quite common 
symptoms. The delicate sympathetic nerves are also profoundly 
impressed ; flushing of the face, palpitation, intermittent pulse, 
irregularity of the heart, and ringing in the ears result. When 
the liver trouble is persistent, the disturbance of metabolism 
produces certain well-known states of the system, as uric 
acidsemia, lithsemia, gout, gravel. The lining of the joints may 
be irritated, and cause rheumatic gout or chronic rheumatism ; 
the fibrous tissue of muscles and nerves may be similarly affected, 
and cause lumbago and sciatica. The abnormal substances 
floating in the blood, as the result of the abnormal metabolism, 
may irritate the lining membrane of the bloodvessels and heart, 
so that valvular diseases, hypertrophy of the heart, degeneration 
of the coats of the vessels, or thickening of the fibrous tissues of 
the arteries, may occur with increased tension, leading to Bright's 
disease. 

Liable as the residents in temperate climates are to derange- 
ments of the liver from the causes named, the non-native resident 
of tropical regions is far more liable to have his liver disturbed 
and its functions disorganized. From the moment such a 
residence begins Nature endeavours to accommodate the system 
to the change of climate and circumstances, but not always 
satisfactorily. The air in the tropics is rarified, probably 
contains a somewhat smaller proportion of oxygen than in colder 
climates, and has the effect of checking the elimination of carbonic 
acid from the body ; it is also probable that more carbon is 
consumed in the form of food and drink to meet the excessive 
perspiration. At the same time there is a constant tendency to 
take less exercise than is requisite, which leads to diminished 
combustion and consumption of material in the system. All 
these causes assist in overloading the liver, in producing a 
congestion of the portal system of vessels, with the consequence 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 513 

that diseases of the Hver and stomach are exceedingly common. 
Disease of the hver is, then, due to a combination of the hot 
climate, sudden changes of temperature, chills and damp, exces- 
sive eating and drinking, stimulating food, exposure to the sun, 
crowded dwellings, warehouses, or barracks. 

Acute Congestion of the Liver results when a person gets a chill 
— ' liver chill ' — so that there is actually a plugging of the vessels 
of the liver and its ducts. The same thing occurs from the 
impaction of a gall-stone or catarrh of the bile-ducts ; some of 
the bile constituents enter the blood, circulate with it, and tinge 
the skin and tissues a lemon or orange colour, and are excreted 
by the urine and other secretions, which are coloured by them. 
Acute or active congestion of the liver is most common in people 
from thirty-five to forty-five years of age, especially in those who 
lead a sedentary life and eat and drink freely. It causes a sense 
of weight in the right side, or an actual pain radiating from the 
side to the shoulder ; slight jaundice, constipation, pale-coloured 
stools, high-coloured urine, furred tongue, bitter taste in the 
mouth, want of appetite, nausea or vomiting, aching of the limbs, 
giddiness, headache, languor, palpitation, sleeplessness, and other 
signs of physical and mental prostration, and profound dis- 
turbance of the muscular and nervous systems, are the symptoms 
which attend it. 

Chronic Congestion or Passive Hypersemia of the Liver. — A flow 
of blood to the liver occurs normally after each meal, when the 
absorption of food from the alimentary canal causes an increased 
fulness of the intestinal veins, and consequently of those which 
go to the liver. When people eat or drink immoderately this 
physiological rush of blood becomes excessive, abnormal, and 
lasts longer, and if the cause continues, a permanent dilatation 
of the vessels of the liver is induced. Spirituous liquors are 
conveyed directly to the liver through the tributaries of the 
portal vein ; the alcohol acts as an irritant to the liver substance, 
which becomes relaxed, and its capillaries dilate owing to a 
diminished resistance to the increased How of blood through it ; 
abuse of alcohol in any form is a well-known cause of liver 
disease. A similar irritation of liver substance and congestion 
of its vessels is produced by the use of spices and condiments in 
an excessive quantity. Chronic congestion is caused in other 

33 



514 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

diseases by a backward pressure in the veins, so that the blood 
cannot leave the liver so readily as in the normal condition. This 
occurs, for instance, in valvular diseases of the heart, fatty heart, 
or pressure upon the veins by a new growth, or from causes of 
venous obstruction in the lungs, such as pleurisy and empyema. 
In whatever manner the congestion is induced the liver is swollen, 
and its cut surface presents the appearance known as 'nutmeg 
liver.' Definite signs do not occur beyond those of ordinary 
liver trouble, detailed above, unless the congestion reaches a high 
grade and the liver becomes considerably enlarged. There is 
then a feeling of fulness or weight in the side, with pain or 
tenderness on pressure, pain under the right shoulder-blade or 
in the shoulder-tip, perhaps a sense of tension over the whole 
abdomen, or an inability to bear tight clothing or to breathe 
freely. There may be a concomitant catarrh of the stomach and 
bowels, and a continuance of the cause, especially alcoholic ex- 
cesses, will be the means of producing progressive changes in the 
liver, which may end in cirrhosis. 

The Management of Liver Troubles. — We can influence the liver 
by means of its supplies of food and air. The secretion of bile, 
the storage of glycogen, and tbe production of urea can be 
modified within certain limits by the proportions of proteid and 
carbohydrates consumed. We can also control the supply of 
oxygen to the liver, and to some extent the intricate processes 
going on within it, by the purity of the air and the amount of 
exercise and general oxidation. We can sweep the bowel of its 
entire contents, removing the bile salts therein, and stimulate 
the liver cells to fresh secretion, whereby the sluggish organ is 
benefited. Purgation also diverts much water from the portal 
system, and thereby relieves the congestion of the veins, and we 
can increase the elimination of urea by acting upon the kidneys, 
whence we also stimulate the liver to fresh activity. 

Persons subject to ' liver complaint ' must revise their dietary ; 
they must avoid ricb, highly-seasoned, and spiced foods, sauces, 
pickles, and all otiier things known to cause indigestion (q.v.) ; 
they must live upon plainer food, and more abstemiously than 
has been their custom. Perfect digestion must be obtained and 
regular action of the bowels. Sedentary or lazy habits must be 
abandoned, plenty of exercise in the form of riding or walking 

2| 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 515 

in the open air must be taken, the atmosphere of the rooms 
occupied by the patient must be cool and pure, and sunlight is 
essential. Sometimes a change of occupation is advisable — e.g., 
from that in the foul, hot atmosphere of a warehouse or workroom 
to an out-of-door occupation or life, in the country. Little more 
is necessary. 

In acute congestion of the liver — ' liver chill ' — a few days' rest 
in bed is advisable ; cotton-wool applied over the liver will be 
soothing ; fomentations, a hot mustard and linseed poultice, 
followed by an ordinary linseed poultice or a few leeches to the 
anus, will, by drawing blood from the liver, soothe it and relieve 
the congestion. Further reduction of the congestion can be 
brought about by a large dose of saline aperient — e.g., two or 
more Seidlitz powders in rapid succession. In this stage the 
diet must be absolutely unirritating : milk alone or with an alkaline 
water, such as soda, potash, Vals, Vichy, or Apollinaris ; thin 
oatmeal gruel, maize mush, or arrowroot ; veal or chicken broth ; 
and a little tea. When the feverishness is gone a little boiled 
whiting, sole, turbot, or fresh haddock, rice or other milk pudding, 
and later on a little chicken or white game. If the congestiou 
is neglected, acute inflammation may occur or an abscess of the 
liver form, which require similar treatment. When convales- 
cence sets in there should be a rearrangement of the diet and 
habits, as indicated above. Should the congestion or hypenemia 
of the liver become chronic, the dietary and habits of life must 
equally be rearranged ; instead of free and luxurious living the 
diet must be plain and unstimulating, such as fish, boiled mutton, 
eggs, milk puddings, light vegetables, fruit, bread-and-butter, and 
other easily-digested foods (see ' Indigestion and Gastric Catarrh '). 
The diet should be spare, neither over-eating nor over-drinking, 
very much fat or starchy material being avoided. Alcohol 
materially interferes with the functions of the liver, and ought 
to be done without altogether or its consumption much reduced.. 
Malt liquors and spirits are particularly forbidden, but a little 
light wine, as Hock, Silery, Moselle, Bordeaux, or red Hungarian 
wine, may be taken. Pickles and spices must be avoided. 
Luxurious habits must be abandoned ; the patient must walk 
instead of riding in a carriage, although riding on horseback is 
good for liver complaints. When the patient is really unable to 

33—2 



516 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

walk, driving in an open carriage is preferable to a closed one ; 
but some part of every day must be spent in the open air. The 
beneficial effects of exercise, golfing, tennis, cycling, gymnastics, 
cannot be estimated merely by the extra amount of oxygen in- 
haled, for it increases the activity of the skin and kidneys, and 
helps to unburden the liver by the removal of glycogen and the 
products of metabolic activity. Eemedial measures should be 
taken at the same time ; brisk purgation clears the bowels of 
bile and imperfectly digested food, relieves the congestion of the 
portal veins and liver, and stimulates absorption and bile forma- 
tion. Nothing surpasses the alkaline or saline purgative waters 
for this purpose. The carbonate and chloride of soda and mag- 
nesia and phosphate of soda in these waters have a stimulant 
eifect upon the biliary secretion, and the purgative action of the 
sulphates relieves venous congestion. Some of these salts enter 
the blood and are excreted by the kidneys, thereby promoting 
urea excretion and a ready means of relief to the liver. The 
alkaline carbonates will neutralize and conduct out of the body 
any excess of uric acid or other purin substance which may be 
the cause of gout, rheumatism, or gravel. The waters most 
suitable are those of Harrogate and Leamington in England ; 
Carlsbad, Marienbad, Homburg, Kissingen, Tarasp, Vichy, Brides, 
on the Continent ; while those of Hot Springs and the Saratoga- 
Vichy are good examples of American waters, and they may 
be taken for a long time without injury. If the nutrition of 
the patient has suffered very much, preference is to be given 
to those waters which contain small quantities of iron, as 
Harrogate, Leamington, Kissingen, Homburg, Eakoczy, Franzen- 
brunnen. 

Spa treatment is excellent and useful, on account of the water 
which is drunk and the absence of business, freedom from worry, 
and distraction from introspection. Hydropathic treatment is 
useful in cases due to overeating or drinking ; it usually consists- 
of a douche of cold water applied to the region of the liver for 
about fifteen seconds daily, or a hot and cold douche alternately 
for similar periods, the whole application lasting only one minute. 
The patient stands with the right arm uplifted and the thigh 
advanced during the application. The constant wearing of a 
compress, consisting of a piece of spongio-plline wrung out of a. 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 517 

mixture of 2 ounces of dilute nitro-hydrochloric acid and a quart 
of water, over the region of the liver until it produces pimples, 
and a foot-bath of the same mixture for a few minutes every 
other day, are beneficial. Other counter-irritants can also be 
usefully applied over the liver — e.g., chilli paste, mustard plaster, 
oil of mustard, iodine, and leeches. 

In cirrhosis of the liver the treatment of the first stage, or 
hypertrophy, is practically that given above ; but if once the 
second stage of the disease, characterized by contraction of the 
liver, sets in, nothing can cause the dense tissue to expand again, 
and our efforts must be directed towards relieving the concurrent 
catarrh of the stomach and bowels, and battling with the in- 
creasing emaciation and debility of the patient. The administra- 
tion of the alkaline carbonates, as we have them in the natural 
waters of Vichy, Vals, or Apollinaris, will soothe the congested 
mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, and decrease the 
tenacity of the mucus and assist in its removal. Haemorrhage 
from the stomach and bowels is to be treated as stated under 
that head. Dropsy by tapping the abdomen when it is impera- 
tively necessary to relieve the pressure. Unfortunately, as the 
latter symptom is dependent upon obstruction to the course of 
the blood through the liver, it is liable to return very quickly ; 
careful and firm bandaging of the abdomen may afford some 
protection against its accumulation by giving some support to 
the organs and bloodvessels ; but diuretic waters and drinks, 
both alkaline and alcoholic, are useless against it. 

The regulation of the diet is the most important part of the 
treatment for improving the strength and nutrition. The diet 
should consist largely of eggs and milk, varied by thin oatmeal 
gruel, puree of vegetables or consomme, milk soup, oxtail soup, 
beef-tea, mutton or chicken broth ; milk puddings, such as rice, 
sago, tapioca, vermicelli, macaroni, semolina, custard, junket, 
jelly, all sweetened with saccharin or saxin ; also fish, chicken, 
pheasant, rabbit. It is better to avoid sweets and fat, and to 
reduce the amount of food to a minimum ; indeed, a diet con- 
sisting chiefly of milk and eggs improves the nutrition, and often 
results in the removal of a large quantity of fluid from the 
swollen abdomen, which is materially aided by the natural sugar 
of milk or lactose. The dilution of milk is sometimes necessary 



518 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

when patients find it hard to digest ; buttermilk, whey, barley- 
water, Vichy, Vals, Ems, Apollinaris, or other alkaline waters 
may be used for this purpose. 



GALL-STONES. 

A gall-stone is a friable mass of cholesterin, lime, iron, and 
bile salts precipitated from the bile and bound together by an 
albuminous material, and is the result of concentration and 
vitiation of the bile. Catarrh or some other form of irritation 
of the mucous lining of the gall-bladder or of the bile-ducts 
causes an obstruction and consequent stagnation of the bile, 
which results in the deposition of materials which form the 
stones. The trouble is predisposed to by the consumption of a 
disproportionate amount of fat or other animal food ; but the 
immediate causes are various, and include indigestion, high 
living, intemperance, worry, and indolence. Catarrh of the gall- 
bladder and bile-passages may likewise be due to the presence of 
micro-organisms, and obstruction of the passages may be produced 
by the pressure of a new growth — e.g., cancer — upon the bile 
channels. ^^ However it is produced, a stagnation of the bile is 
the first step in the production of the gall-stones. The signs are 
well known : repeated attacks of pain in the region of the gall- 
bladder, with vomiting and sometimes jaundice ; sometimes there 
is a perceptible enlargement of the gall-bladder, or stones may 
be felt in it. 

Treatment of an attack of 'biliary colic,' which is caused by 
the attempt to pass a gall-stone, consists of warm baths, poultices, 
fomentations, or mustard plasters, which are useful by relieving 
pain and relaxing spasm. Drinking large quantities of hot water, j 
to each pint of which a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has 
been added, acts as an internal fomentation, promotes the flow of 
bile, and thus urges the stone along the channel. The patient 
should persist in drinking this or other hot alkaline water until 
the paroxysm is passed, even though vomiting occurs. 

To cure or prevent gall-stones the patient must be treated in 
the intervals of colic. We must cure the catarrh of the biliary 
channels, stimulate the muscular fibres and cells of the liver, 
relieve congestion of the veins, remove intestinal accumulations; 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 519 

and stimulate intestinal activity. The alkaline waters of Bath, 
Apollinaris, Vichy, Ems, Vals, Carlsbad, Gerez, Brides, Marien- 
bad, and others, which contain very little lime, cause a free flow 
of thin bile by which gall-stones are washed down. Immense 
quantities of gall-stones are evacuated with proportionately little 
difficulty by the Carlsbad and other waters. They also cure the 
catarrh of the bile-ducts and gall-bladder, stimulate the liver and 
intestinal glands, and relieve constipation. Spa treatment is 
very good, but not a sine quel non, because many people do as 
well at home when they submit to proper treatment. Most of 
the Continental waters or their salts can be obtained for home 
treatment. Vichy and Carlsbad salts are always to be had. 
Carlsbad salts can be imitated by mixing together one part of 
common salt, three parts of bicarbonate of soda, and four parts of 
sulphate of soda. A teaspoonful should be taken in a tumbler- 
ful of hot water half an hour before each meal, the flavour 
being disguised if desirable by a little fruit syrup or orange 
juice. The patient should drink from 2 to 4 pints a day of 
water, either ordinary water (boiled to precipitate lime salts) or 
Apollinaris or Salutaris water (the latter being a pure distilled 
water, free from lime or other salts, obtainable ' still ' or 
'aerated'), in which the Carlsbad or Vichy salts can be taken. 
It is important to cure or prevent constipation, for which purpose 
the amount of sulphate of soda in the above mixture may be 
increased when necessary to insure two or three easy evacuations 
a day. Vichy water (Grand-Grille) and Saratoga- Vichy can be 
taken to the same extent, but are not aperient. Vichy salts caa 
be imitated by mixing together 1 part of common salt, 1 part 
of bicarbonate of potash, and 6 parts of bicarbonate of soda, a 
teaspoonful being taken for a dose four or six times a day in plain 
or seltzer water, whey, buttermilk, or koumiss. If the patient be 
incommoded by so large a quantity to drink, a pint or more of 
warm alkaline water may be injected into the bowels and 
allowed to remain. A person who perspires freely during exer- 
cise should drink more than one who does not perspire readily. 

Olive oil, castor oil, or glycerine in large doses will, if tolerated, 
be beneficial for gall-stones. The oils may be taken alone or with 
a little bicarbonate of soda, and glycerine can be drunk in Vichy 
or Apollinaris water. 



520 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The diet should neither be restricted in amount nor quality. 
An abundance of food promotes a flow of bile ; restriction of food 
diminishes it, with the further consequence that the secretion 
may remain in the gall-bladder instead of flowing into the intes- 
tines, where its stagnation favours the formation of gall-stones. 
Frequent meals are recommended, consisting of the ordinary and 
customary articles of food. Moderation is essential, excess to be 
avoided. Fat meat, sugar, and farinaceous foods should only be 
taken sparingly ; bread sparingly, and preferably as dry toast ; 
eggs may be eaten occasionally, but only one a day. Fruit and 
vegetables should be taken freely, especially green vegetables, 
salads, potatoes, and ripe fruit. They supply salts which become 
changed in the system into alkaline carbonates, and promote a 
flow of thin bile. Olives are good because of their aperient 
quality and richness in oil. Vegetable oils are not deletei'ious 
like animal fatp, therefore salad oil is a useful article of diet. 

The patient should avoid eating rich and greasy foods, much 
fat meat, butter, and excess of cane-sugar in any form. Especially 
avoid cheese, fat pork, duck, goose, high game, fried food, pickles, 
pastry, new bread, hot buttered toast, crumpets, suet puddings, 
spices, condiments, highly-seasoned dishes or sauces, indigestible 
fruit, and nuts. While green vegetal)le8 and fruits are highly 
recommended, those which are very sweet or contain much 
sugar should be avoided ; and peas and carrots contain a fatty 
substance, which is similar to cholesterin, and are to be avoided. 
Farinaceous foods also should not be eaten in excess, especially 
those which are sweetened. 

Drink may consist of tea, coffee, cocoa made from the nibs, 
buttermilk, whey, koumiss, the alkaline waters, a small amount 
of Hock, Bordeaux, Moselle, or light Ehine wine, freely diluted 
with soda or seltzer water, Salutaris, Apollinaris, or other 
alkaline waters. But malt liquors, sweet wines, such as port 
or sherry, spirits, or liqueurs, ought to be avoided. A small 
quantity of dry champagne, when diluted with Apollinaris or 
other alkaline gaseous water, may be allowed, but not a sweet 
champagne. 

The ordinary clothing may be worn, but it must be loose and 
warmj; tight corsets or belts may obstruct the flow oi bile -and 
favour formation of Lrall- stones. 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 521 

There must also be a change of habits. The sleep should 
be shortened to seven hours each night ; a little walk should be 
taken before breakfast, and an hour or two of rest after the mid- 
day meal. The person whose occupation is sedentary, or confines 
him or her to the house, must go out more into the fresh air. 
Mental work should be reduced to permit of more exercise being 
taken in the form of walking, tennis, golf, cycling, horseback 
riding, or gymnastics. Deep -breathing exercises are a good means 
of unloading the portal circulation and preventing stagnation. 
The following are useful : 

1. Stand in the erect position with the arms extended hori- 
zontally. Take a deep breath, and while doing so throw the head 
backwards as far as possible and twist the arms backwards. 
Eeturn to the original position. 

2. Stand with the arras at sides, relax the body so as to empty 
the chest completely. Then inhale deeply while drawing in the 
stomach, and throw the chest out to the utmost. 

3. Stand erect, take a deep breath, and, while doing so, raise 
the arms above the head and clasp the hands ; then bend 
forwards and downwards without bending the knees until the 
fingers touch the toes. 

4. Lie flat on the back, stretch the body out well with the 
palms on the floor or bed. Take deep breaths. 

5. Same position. Empty the chest completely ; then, while 
taking a long and deep breath, raise the body into the sitting 
position, and bend forwards until the hands reach the feet. 
This should be done without assistance from the hands, the 
knees also being kept down. 

Each exercise may be repeated from three to nine times, and 
care should be taken that the mouth is closed, and breathing 
only takes place through the nose. 

6. While sitting or standing, clasp the hands in front of the 
abdomen, and take a full breath to expand the chest and depress 
the diaphragm fully, so that the liver gets a good squeeze between 
the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles. 

Hydrotherapeutics. — A douche or stream of hot and cold water 
alternately applied to the region of the liver is sometimes valuable 
by stimulating contraction of the muscular fibres and the cir- 
jculation. The nitro-hydrochloric compress may also be useful 



522 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

A plain Water compress applied every night as follows is also 
serviceable : First put a hot fomentation over the liver and 
stomach for ten minutes ; then wring a towel out of cold water, 
leaving it just wet enough not to drip, remove the fomentation, 
and apply the cold towel in its place ; cover with a piece of oil- 
silk or mackintosh, and over that a thick flannel bandage to 
secure it in position and keep it moist all night. Remove it in 
the morning, sponge the part with cold water, carefully dry it, 
and wear a flannel bandage all day. A sitz-bath with massage 
may also be very useful. The patient sits in 4 or 6 inches of 
warm water, which is allowed to get cold, for a time varying 
from ten to sixty minutes, during which the abdomen is rubbed, 
kneaded, and massaged by the patient or attendant. It stimu- 
lates all the abdominal organs, the circulation, and nerves. 

OBESITY, CORPULENCY. 

Obesity, or abnormal increase of fat in the body, is essentially a 
condition of altered metabolism, allied to gout, diabetes, chlorosis, 
and myxoedema. In some persons the weight increases out of 
proportion to the consumption of food ; in others it is the result 
of excessive eating and drinking, sedentary occupation, deficient 
oxidation, and similar causes. Corpulency is an affection which 
usually begins in middle life, when there is a natural tendency to 
embonpoint. The girth below the waist increases out of propor- 
tion to that of the rest of the body, owing to the deposition of 
fat in or around the abdominal organs and in the subcutaneous 
tissues. The measure of corpulence is the excess in the circum- 
ference of the abdomen at the level of the umbilicus over that of 
the thorax. 

The presence of superabundant fat in the tissues and organs 
greatly interferes with the discharge of their functions and 
produces discomfort. The elasticity of the heart muscle and 
energy of its contractions are impaired, whence the breathless- 
ness on slight exertion which characterizes obese persons. 
Muscular activity is also diminished by a deposition of fat in 
the fibres. In the liver fat takes the place of protoplasm in the 
cells, and, owing to the mechanical impediment which its 
presence entails, the circulation through the liver and its glyco- 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 523 

genie function are impaired or hindered. Briefly, the causes of 
abnormal increase of fat in the body are : (1) Eating and drinking 
in excess of the bodily requirements, even proteid food becoming 
fat when too much is consumed ; (2) deficient oxidation and 
excretion. We derive from this several clear indications for 
treatment : (a) To remove the causes of metabolic deficiency ; 
(/>) to harmonize the proportion of food and drink with the out- 
put — i.e., with the work performed and nitrogenous excretion ; 
(c) to remove the ill-effects induced by the deposition of fat in the 
tissues and upon or within the various organs. 

Obesity is largely dependent upon hereditary predisposition, 
on the mode of life, and not a little on the daily occupation. 
Fifty per cent, of eases are among persons who have a hereditary 
tendency to it. Dr. McLeod,i^ in an article on the ' Physical 
Eequirements of the Public Services,' shows that there is a 
difference of a stone (14 pounds), both in the maximum, mini- 
mum, and average weight of men of twenty-five to thirty years of 
age, in the labouring and non-labouring classes respectively. 

An important point in the treatment of this trouble is to gauge 
what may be called the normal weicjlit of the individual. A 
person with a hereditary tendency to obesity must be content, if 
he wishes to remain healthy, to carry a certain amount of ' flesh '; 
and a person who daily drives to and from business, or has a 
sedentary occupation, must expect to carry more weight, and a 
professional man is usually heavier in proportion to his height 
than a labouring man, or one who walks and rides very much. 
The normal weight of a man does not consist of so many pounds 
of flesh to a foot of height, but is that weight which a person 
possesses when in moderate health, and it varies from day to 
day. It does not always agree with the standard weight given 
in text-books and afiixed to weighing-machines, for it varies 
with the position in life as well as with the quantity and kind 
of work done. The normal weight of an individual may be 
difiicult to ascertain, but it will usually be found in obesity to 
be about the mean between the standard and the actual weight of 
the person. Thus, suppose a person of 5 feet 1 inch to weigh 
11 stone 10 pounds ; a reference to various tables shows that the 
average or standard weight for a person of that height is 8 stone 
8 pound?, by which it is assumed that he has excess of weight 



524 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

amounting to 3 stones. The normal weight of such a person is 
probably the mean between the two — viz., 10 stone 3 pounds — 
and it will usually be found unjustifiable to reduce the weight in 
a greater proportion, for a reduction of more than that may cause 
irremediable damage to the health. It is necessary in all cases 
to break through the habit of beer-drinking, or eating fat meat, 
sweets, and starchy foods in excess. But it should not be for- 
gotten that a very large number of people in middle life always 
put on flesh, owing to the reduction in physical activity, and 
perhaps to their getting into more comfortable and luxurious 
habits. 

The diseases in which the reduction of excessive weight is an 
advantage are thus classified by Von Noorden : ^^ Many cases of 
heart disease, chronic bronchitis, rheumatism, gout, diseases of 
the liver and kidneys. In diseases affecting the nervous and 
muscular apparatus fat is an unwelcome complication, and good 
results follow careful reduction. Nevertheless, every person who 
is overburdened with fat is not suitable for treatment ; it should 
seldom be applied in cases of advanced organic disease, the aged, 
and children ; and every case stands upon its merits, and should 
be carefully considered before the treatment is begun. 

During treatment the digestive and excretory organs should 
receive proper attention to insure the assimilation of food and 
excretion of the waste products. Obese persons usually consume 
more food than they require to maintain their proper weight and 
supply heat and energy, and the balance, instead of being 
oxidized and got rid of, forms fat ; this is particularly so with 
regard to saccharine and starchy materials. The regulation of 
the food is therefore one of the important parts of the treat- 
ment, and the consumption of food is usually reduced to a point 
at which the adipose tissue of the body must be drawn upon to 
supply by oxidation the necessary heat and energy for the body. 
This may be done by various dietaries. 

1. Starvation dietary, such as the following, will effect reduction, 
but it is unscientific, barbarous, and unnecessary. Breakfast, a 
cup of tea or milk ; onid-day meal, meat, with vegetables or salad, 
and 4 ounces of bread ; third or last 7neal, a glass of hot milk, 
2 or 3 ounces of bread, and a little fruit. 

2. Banting's dietary is very similar to that used by ' athletes ' 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 525 

when in training, and is by no means to be despised as an anti- 
fat remedy. Breakfast, 4 or 5 ounces of beef, mutton, fish, cold 
game, or any meat except pork ; a little dry toast or biscuit ; 
about a pint of tea without sugar or milk. Dinner may consist 
of 6 or 8 ounces of any kind of fish except salmon, eel, or herring ; 
any lean meat except pork ; any kind of poultry or game ; any 
vegetables except potato, parsnip, carrot, or beet-root ; fruit out of 
a pudding or tart. Two or three glasses of sherry or claret are 
allowed, but no beer, porter, port wine, or champagne. Tea 
should consist of 3 ounces of fruit, a rusk or two, and a cup of 
tea without milk or sugar. Supper, 3 or 4 ounces of lean meat 
or fish, and a glass or two of claret. The total amount of meat 
is 15 ounces, and bread, toast, or rusk, 3 ounces a day. 

3. The Salisbury Treatment. — For rapid reduction of weight 
Towers-Smith's modification of the Salisbury treatment is 
frequently used with marked success. Every visible particle of 
fat is removed from the food, thereby reducing the energy- 
producing material to about one-half the normal quantity, while 
the excess of proteid provokes an unusually rapid metabolism of 
all the tissues. The course is divided into three stages : 

First stage — fourteen days : The daily food must consist of 

3 pounds of rump beef steak, 1 pound of cod-fish, and 6 pints of 
hot water. These amounts are divided into parts for various 
meals. No bread, biscuit, toast, vegetable, or any other article 
is to be taken during this period. The meat may be roasted, 
baked, grilled, boiled, or steamed, and may be eaten whole or 
minced; the fish is to be boiled or steamed. The only condi- 
ments allowed are salt, pepper, mustard, a little vinegar or 
chutney sauce. Each tumblerful of hot water may have in it a 
slice of lemon to give it flavour, or a little lime juice, which is 
credited with assisting the thinning process ; but no sugar, fruit- 
syrup, or alcohol. Active exercise must be taken ; the patient 
can usually bear six or seven miles walking per day in divided 
stages without undue fatigue. 

Second stage — twenty-one days : The water may be reduced to 

4 pints a day, and the food varied as follows : Any kind of meat 
free from fat may be eaten ; chicken, rabbit, or game ; and fish 
such as cod, haddock, halibut, turbot, skate, sole, plaice, or 
whiting ; no sauce can be allowed, but a little vinegar, pepper. 



526 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

salt, ketchup, or anchovy can be used. A little green vegetable 
ought now to be taken, as cabbage, savoy, kale, spinach, lettuce, 
v^atercress, celery ; and a few slices of dry toast, unsweetened 
rusk, or Captain's biscuit may be permitted. 

Third stage — twenty-one days : The hot water may be reduced 
to 3 pints a day, and that should be continued to the end of the 
treatment ; a little tea sweetened with saccharin or saxin may be 
allowed ; also a little Hock, Moselle, or claret, and seltzer or 
ApoUinaris water ; but no sweet wines, malt liquor, spirits, or 
liqueurs. The food may consist of any kind of meat, game, 
poultry, or fish, free from fat; any kind of vegetable free from 
sugar ; and dry toast, bottom crust or stale bread, and Captain's 
biscuit. 

During the course the weight without clothing and the 
abdominal and thorax circumference should be measured and 
recorded once a week. The reduction of weight varies consider- 
ably, but usually averages 2 stones in three months. It is useless 
to undertake the treatment unless it is rigidly carried out ; the 
first two weeks are the only real hardship. But no person 
suffering from organic disease of any description ought to undergo 
reduction by such a rapid method of treatment, as their disease 
may be aggravated thereby. 

4. Slow reduction permits of a much more varied diet, and the 
following articles of food mmj be alloived : 

Soups. — All clear soups (excepting those which contain vermi- 
celli, macaroni, rice, barley, oats) : julienne, kidney, ox-tail, fowl, 
game, fish, oyster, lobster, and tomato soups. 

Fish.— Sole, plaice, smelts, whiting, haddock, brill, turbot, 
flounder, cod, ling, halibut, white-fish, salmon, trout, perch, 
bream, oysters. 

Meat. — All kinds of lean meat not cooked with fat: mutton, 
lamb, beef, beef steak, veal, sweet-bread, kidney, chicken, pheasant, 
pigeon, guinea-fowl, turkey, partridge, hare, rabbit, leveret, lean 
ham, tongue, eggs, cheese, and new milk-cheese. 

Sauces may be made of apple, ouion, gooseberry, horse-radish, 
cucumber, lemon, mint, tomato, spinach, or mushroom. 

Dry toast, stale bread, bottom crust, gluten bread, almond bread, 
and Captain's biscuits, are allowed in moderation. 

Cooked Vegetables. — Cabbage, savoy, kale, brussels-sprouts, 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 527 

cabbage sprouts, cauliflower, broccoli, seakale, red cabbage, 
spinach, artichokes, cardoons, vegetable marrow, pumpkin, green 
peas, kidney beans, turnips, new potatoes, stewed celery, stewed 
cucumber, leeks, Spanish onions, tomatoes, and mushrooms. 

Salads. — Lettuce, watercress, celery, mustard and cress, onions, 
tomatoes, and cucumber. 

Dessert. — Nuts and most kinds of fruits (except sweet ones); 
stewed apples, pears, plums, damsons, cherries, rhubarb, rasp- 
berries, strawberries ; apple-snow, compote of apricot, prunes, 
damsons, or plums ; damson cream, raspberry cream, rhubarb 
mould ; calf's foot and other jellies ; and puddings of gluten flour, 
vermicelli, or macaroni. All the above may be sweetened with 
saxin or saccharin, but no sugar must be used. 

Drink. — Plain water is not fattening, and may be taken ad 
libitum. The total amount of drink should not exceed 2 jmits 
a day. It may consist of water, tea, coffee, or cocoa made 
from the nibs ; Vichy, Vals, Apollinaris, Salutaris, Saratoga, 
Vichy, or seltzer water ; lemonade, lime-juice, and apple- water, 
sweetened with saccharin ; a little Hock, Chablis, sherry, claret. 
Moselle ; also claret-. Moselle-, or champagne-cup, and brandy or 
other spirit well diluted. 

Ebstein's dietary is one frequently prescribed ; it is as follows : 
Breakfast : A thick slice of bread-and-butter and a large cup of 
tea. Dinner : \ pint of clear soup, 5 ounces of cooked meat with 
green vegetable, and ^ pint of light wine. Tea : The same as for 
breakfast. Supper : An egg, 3 or 4 ounces of cooked meat, half 
a slice of bread-and-butter, a small piece of cheese, some fruit 
and tea. It is to be observed that there is no restriction of fat, 
and sauces are allowed. It includes 3^ ounces of dry proteid, 
3 ounces of fat, 1| ounces of dry carbohydrate, 3 pints of liquids, 
and yields 1,300 calories. Oertel restricts the consumption of 
fat and liquids. He allows a diet containing 5^ to 6^ ounces of 
dry proteid, 1 to Ih ounces of fat, 2J to 3i ounces of carbohydrate, 
and 1 to 1^ pints of liquid daily, which yields 1,200 to 1,600 
calories. The normal diet considered necessary for a man doiug 
ordinary work includes food containing -li ounces of proteid, 
3J ounces of fat, 14 ounces of carbohydrate, 3 to 4 pints of liquids, 
and yields about 3,000 calories. The chief difference in the 
dietary allowed for obese or corpulent persons is in the reduction 



528 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of the fat and carbohydrate ; in other words, a restriction of the 
sugar, starch, and fat contained in the bread, pastry, butter, fat 
meat, and sweetened dishes, which are excluded. This hst is 
amplified as follows : 

May not have sugar and fat in any form, and the carbo- 
hydrate must be reduced ; hence avoid all rich, fat, or sweetened 
dishes (except with saccharin) ; sugar, jam, marmalade, pre- 
serves, honey, treacle, confectionery ; bread (except a small 
quantity), rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, cornflour, blanc-mange, 
oatmeal, maize, pastry, boiled puddings ; potatoes (except new 
ones, which contain much less starch than ripe tubers), carrots, 
parsnips, swede-turnips, beet-root, asparagus, dried peas and 
beans, and artichokes in very strict dieting ; thick soups, milk, 
ale, stout, port wine, home-made wine, syrups, and sweet drinks 
of all kinds ; cream, cream-cheese, rich and ripe cheese, thick 
cocoa ; herrings, mackerel, eels, and other fish rich in fat, 
sardines and pilchards done in oil ; pork, duck, goose, liver, and 
any food cooked in fat or oil ; olives, grapes, raisins, currants, 
figs, dates, candied fruit, sweet apples or pears, mulberries, and 
all other sweet fruit. 

5. Treatment 'by dry diet — that is, without drinking with the 
food — is very good if it can be tolerated. It has the support of 
Oertel,^^ Grocco,^'' Balfour ^'^ and other specialists, in certain 
cases. But it is liable to cause gastro-intestinal disturbances, 
gout, gravel, renal colic, or neurasthenia. It is a useful method 
of treatment for those who habitually drink too much. It can 
be ascertained if harm or good is resulting from the treatment. 
Thus, it is probably doing good if the secretion of urine is not 
diminished in quantity ; but it is doing harm if the urine 
becomes scanty and acid, and the perspiration is checked or 
digestion disturbed, because it is then interfering with assimila- 
tion and excretion. The beneficial effect of the reduction of or 
abstention from fiuid is quite empirical. lu cases where an 
absolutely dry diet cannot be borne the patient should abstain 
from drinking at meal-times, but have a draught of any suitable 
liquid about two hours afterwards, water being the best. It is some- 
times beneficial if the total consumption of liquid is reduced to 
15 ounces daily — viz., a cupful of tea at breakfast, a cupful of tea 
at tea-time, half a glass of wine after the mid-day ineal, and 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 529 

a little spirit in 3 or 4 ounces of water, or a glassful of hot water 
alone at bedtime, whereby we have a modified dry diet. 

' Different patients require diiTerent methods of treatment ; one 
mode is not suitable for all persons. It is impossible to arrange 
a dietary which will agree with everybody ; the state of health, 
habits, and convenience must be considered in each case. In the 
majority of instances the reduction of weight should be gradual, 
and the reduction of food and drink should not be suddenly 
brought about. Eapid reduction of weight, which is readily 
effected by the Salisbury treatment, is worse than useless 
if it is followed by a season of indulgence. With most 
people a reduction of 1 kilo (about 2 pounds) per week is the 
best ; and less than that, f to 1 pound per week, is advisable in 
persons afflicted by disease. The food should be such as will 
not leave a sense of hunger, but rather of satisfaction and well- 
being. The consumption of proteids should be especially watched, 
and regulated according to the needs of the body. In no case 
ought the amount of proteid to sink below that which will supply 
the nitrogen excreted ; for which reason Groeco and others 
recommend regular and frequent examinations of the urine and 
estimation of the urea output. The excretion of nitrogen by the 
kidneys is probably not more than 90 per cent, of that in the 
food. The amount of nitrogenous food consumed should vary 
with the excretion of this material just as much as with the 
health, habits, and circumstances of the patient. The reduction 
of food is not the only principle to be observed in the treatment 
of obesity. In very many cases there must be a rearrangement 
of the habits, and perhaps of the occupation or method of 
performing it. The sedentary man must take more exercise in 
the form of walking, golfing, tennis, cycling, horse-riding, rowing, 
swimming, and gymnastics. Mental distraction by change of 
air and scenery is good for some people, especially when it is 
combined with walking and climbing. Early rising is better than 
late hours. Seven hours' sleep should be the limited amount. 
Unlimited sleep and a warm bed favour obesity. The body 
should be lightly clad, the clothing being of sufficient warmth to 
keep the skin in action, but not heavy enough to prevent the 
dispersion of heat from the body. 

As regards gymnastics, the ordinary course at a gymnasium is 

34 



530 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

very good, but all exercises which will strengthen the abdominal 
muscles and stimulate the circulation are useful. The abdominal 
muscles are very little used, except through the influence of the 
will. Defective action weakens them, and when this is combined 
with congestion of the abdominal veins and deficiency of oxygena- 
tion, it leads to corpulency. When, however, these muscles are 
persistently and intelligently exercised, they may be made a 
means of stimulating the portal circulation and reducing 
corpulency. The following exercises are simple, and can be per- 
formed by most people, excepting those who have a disease of 
the heart. The latter may perform the Schott exercises (see 
' Heart Disease '). 

(1) Lie flat upon the back ; raise the body several times into a 
sitting posture without the aid of the hands, and bend forwards. 

(2) Lie upon the back ; draw up both knees to the abdomen, 
clasp them with the hands, and press them well against the 
body. When the patient is well used to this, it may be varied 
by doing it while standing, each knee being drawn up in turn 
and pressed to the abdomen. 

(3) Clasp the hands across the abdomen, inhale, and bend 
backwards and forwards several times to the fullest extent. 

(4) The deep breathing exercises (as mentioned for gall-stones), 
the hands clasped in front of the abdomen (a) while sitting, 
(6) standing, inspiration and expiration being as full as possible. 

(5) The muscles of the back should be exercised (a) by move- 
ments imitating rowing and canoeing ; (&) stand erect, bend 
the body to the ground as if trying to reach the toes with the 
outstretched hands, resume the exact attitude, using the hip- 
joints as a hinge ; (c) by spiral and sideway bending movements, 
in each of which the knees and hips are kept straight and still. 

The exercises should last twenty to thirty minutes each day. 
Each movement should be performed evenly and a given number 
of times. An ordinary full course of gymnastics, like that for 
muscular development, may be taken by those who are sound. 
It has the advantage of removing fat from the parts exercised 
(see ' Exercise in Gout '). 

Spa treatment at Marienbad, Carlsbad, Nauheim, Vichy, 
Contrexeville, Bath, Harrogate, Buxton, Hot Springs, and many 
other places which are recommended for the treatment of gout 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 531 

and liver diseases, has a beneficial effect upon obesity. All 
alkaline waters, especially the chloride, sulphate, and ferruginous, 
are suitable for it, and may be drunk at home as well as at the 
spa. Promoting the eliminatory functions by saline aperient 
waters, such as Hunyadi Janos, likewise stimulates the abdominal 
circulation, and is a valuable aid to other treatment in these 
cases. For home treatment let half or a third of a tumbler of 
such a water be taken every morning on rising ; ic will stimulate 
metabolism and the elimination of waste products, get rid of 
unassimilated nutriment, cause oxidation of the remainder, and 
prevent its formation into fat. By stimulating the portal cii-cula- 
tion it will relieve the congestion of these vessels, deplete the 
body of fluids, and enable the liver to discharge its various 
functions more thoroughly. Those who go to a spa to drink the 
waters, but do not reform their habits, will probably find that 
their weight is increasing instead of diminishing, for change of 
air and water materially stimulates the appetite and digestion. 

Baths of alkaline, brine, or sea water are beneficial in obesity. 
Kellogi-' considers swimming and bathing to be two of the most 
efficient means of reducing weight. He says a cold bath lasting 
ninety-eight minutes is equivalent to a twenty miles walk for 
reducing flesh. We certainly have in bathing an effective means 
of abstracting heat from the body, and thereby causing an 
increased oxidation of the tissues. Physiologically only one-fifth 
of the heat produced in the body by oxidation of the food and 
tissues is used for work, the remaining four-fifths for warmth, 
and it escapes from the surface of the body by evaporation, radia- 
tion, and convection. Immersion in cold or nearly cold water, 
to which heat is readily conveyed from the body, will therefore 
cause a greater expenditure of heat, and a greater consumption of 
material to produce it. The combination of exercise and abstrac- 
tion of heat which takes place by swimming in cool water 
(68° to 75° F.) will, when joined to a modification of the diet, 
certainly cause a reduction of the flesh. It is not everybody who 
can bear prolonged immersion in water, even when it is combined 
with the exercise of swimming, because their power of reaction 
is low, or not sufficiently responsive to cause a glow on the skin, 
and they therefore become blue and chilly, and may have cramp. 
Such people are not proper persons for this mode of treatment. 

34—2 



532 ' FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Turkish baths, which consist of air heated to 180° or 200° F., 
are powerfully diaphoretic, and are useful for obesity by pro- 
ducing a free action of the skin and stimulating metabolism. 
The Russian or vapour bath is likewise a powerful diaphoretic, 
and causes reduction of weight by removing a large quantity of 
water from the tissues. In both cases the body should be cooled 
by sitting in a room of a lower temperature for some time before 
exposure to the outside air. 

Massage. — General massage does not reduce fat, but rather 
increases it where used alone ; but in combination with Turkish 
and other baths it stimulates metabolism and assists in absorp- 
tion. Local massage of the abdomen is a valuable adjunct to 
other treatment, for it stimulates the portal circulation, reduces 
congestion of the abdominal organs, and promotes the absorption 
of superabundant fat. 

The inhalation of oxygen is useful if it is steadily persevered 
in for cases attended by great feebleness due to organic disease. 
It is impossible to insist upon a very modified diet and much 
exercise in the class of cases referred to. 

Slow methods of treating obesity always produce the most 
permanent results — say the reduction of a pound a week for 
three or four months. The cure is not complete until the patient 
is relieved of the superabundant fat, and has settled down to a 
mode of living and a dietary which will not increase weight. 
Success depends largely upon the stage at which the treatment 
is begun ; it is best when started early, and in all cases the 
greatest care must be taken to avoid injury to the heart and 
nervous system. 

The consequences of an increase of adipose tissue are not only 
unpleasant : they are deleterious when the muscles, liver, and 
other organs become infiltrated by fat, and their action is en- 
feebled or functions defective. Among these consequences we 
must include fatty heart. By this term is not meant a meta- 
morphosis of the muscular fibres into fat, but an overgrowth of 
fat upon the surface of the heart, which by its pressure upon the 
muscular fibres causes them to waste to some extent, and other- 
wise overburdens this organ. The heart is enfeebled, the pulse 
thin and weak, there is sometimes faintness, and breathlessness 
occurs on the slightest exertion, such ae ascending a staircase or 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 533 

a little hill, and even when walking on a level. An examination 
of the heart reveals no sign of diseased valves, but the sounds 
are faint and the impulse diminished. Such a person should 
reduce his weight by avoiding excesses in eating and drinking, 
and perhaps by adopting a drij diet;^^ by rejecting alcoholic 
beverages, tea, coffee, aerated waters, and other sweet drinks, and 
tobacco ; by taking the exercises designed by Schott, or by a 
course of the alkaline waters. 

Arterial changes or degeneration are frequently associated 
with obesity and excessive eating and drinking, combined with 
other luxurious habits. When this occurs there is a pulse of 
high tension, thickening and elongation of the arteries, and 
possibly an enlargement of the heart. There is a risk of apoplexy, 
degeneration of the brain, degeneration of the substance of the 
heart, and angina pectoris ; kidney disease is also a not infrequent 
consequence. These changes are due to a pathological disturb- 
ance of the metabolism, whereby there is induced an increase of 
the peripheral resistance to the circulation. An increase of the 
arterial and cardiac pressure follows, and results in a degenera- 
tion of the bloodvessels and enlargement of the heart ; heart 
failure often occurs, with shortness of breath, slight swelling of 
the ankles, and venous congestion of the liver. ^o These changes 
may occur in all old people, but are very common in women of 
middle life and stout persons of advancing age. The treatment 
consists in regulating the diet according to the age and other 
circumstances : (a) In middle age it should consist of meat and 
vegetables, while the sugars, starches^ and alcohol must be 
avoided.-! {b) In advanced age animal food, even eggs, should 
be eaten sparingly, and milk with farinaceous materials, fruit, 
and vegetables, ought to form the chief elements, but the diet 
must be limited to the daily requirements. The patients should 
take no fluid with their food, but may drink afterwards. They 
must keep their bowels rather loose, avoid extremes of heat and 
cold, and excitement. They should take regular exercise in the 
open air short of fatigue, and avoid violent exercise of any kind, 
but the Schott exercises are beneficial (see also ' Dietary in Old 
Age '). Eesidence in a genial, sunny climate is best for the 
winter, and a cool, bracing climate for the summer. The alkaline 
waters are sometimes very useful. Hot baths must be avoided, 



534 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

but warm baths, followed by massage or friction to the back 
and limbs with a rough towel, are advisable. Such patients 
should be taught the danger of luxurious living, but with careful 
living and dietary the risks will be diminished and the general 
condition will improve. 

GOUT. 

The gouty diathesis depends upon a defect of metabolism 
whereby some of the nitrogenous substances, which should be 
transformed into urea and leave the body in that form, become 
converted into uric acid. As long as the excess of uric acid is 
regularly excreted by the kidneys, the affected persons get on 
very well and have no trouble. But if the uric acid be produced 
in excess of the amount which the kidneys can deal with, it will 
probably be deposited in the tissues and the joints, and an attack 
of gout ensue. If the secretion of the urine is impeded in any 
way, such as by the kidneys becoming blocked by uric acid or its 
compounds deposited in the tubules, an attack of gout will ensue. 
If the deposit of urates in the tubules of the kidneys be soon 
washed away and a red sandy deposit appear in the urine, the 
attack of gout may pass over without leaving any special marks 
of its occurrence. But if the kidneys should continue to be 
irritated by an excess of uric acid or urates, there might be 
developed what is known as gouty kidneys and other evidences of 
chronic gout. That uric acid or urate of soda is present in gouty 
kidneys has been repeatedly shown, yellowish-white streaks in 
the kidney substance revealing its situation. That the same 
substances are deposited in the joints inflamed by gout has been 
clearly proved by examination of such joints after death, when 
the cartilage has been found covered with a bright white incrus- 
tation, and a microscopic examination of sections exhibited the 
minute crystals of these materials in the cartilage, ligaments, 
and other tissues. That these deposits arise from interference 
with excretion by the kidneys, causing a rise in the amount of 
uric acid and urates in the blood and system, was proved by Hoppe- 
Seyler,2o who tied the ureters of geese and chickens and killed 
them a few days after the operation, when he found the surfaces 
of the joints and various organs incrusted with such crystals. 



J 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 535 

All authorities are agreed that uric acid is an essential factor 
in producing gout. An excess of uric acid in the form of 
quadurate or biurate of soda is found in the blood of all gouty 
persons, and this is accepted as the great factor in all gouty 
manifestations. Now, uric acid is the product in man of the 
incomplete oxidation of nitrogenous waste materials in the food 
or body. The liver is the great urea-producing organ, but uric 
acid is formed in other organs and cellular tissues from nuclein 
and purin bodies. Whatever the source of uric acid, it accumu- 
lates in the system from one of the following causes : (1) Diminished 
excretion or elimination ; (2) increased production. Probably 
both factors play an important part. Increased production 
results in an irritation of the kidneys, which consequently lose 
their power of elimination ; a vicious circle is formed, over- 
production resulting in diminished excretion. -^ There is always 
a deficiency in the amount of uric acid excreted immediately 
preceding an attack of gout, and an increase in the quantity as it 
passes off. 

We have seen that defective action of the liver results in 
a deficient oxidation of certain metabolic products and failure 
to transform them into urea, which is the proper form in which 
nitrogen is excreted from the body in man. Failure of the liver 
to transform them into urea is a cause of excessive production of 
uric acid,-'^ and failure of the kidneys to excrete the uric acid so 
produced is a further cause of its accumulation in the system. -^ 
Quadurate of sodium is the form in which uric acid is normally 
present in the blood up to a certain degree (Roberts), and the 
consumption of vegetables which are rich in salts prevents the 
decomposition of this material, and assists in its removal from 
the body. But when it is produced in excess, or it accumulates 
because its elimination is diminished, it unites with the carbonate 
of soda in the blood and forms biurate of sodium. The latter is 
neither very soluble nor readily excreted by the kidneys, and its 
insolubility is increased by the salts of meat, the consumption 
of which renders its deposition in the joints and tissues very 
probable. 

A hereditary tendency to gout is the most important factor in 
its immediate causation, and is known to exist in about half the 
cases ; then, the other conditions existing, a slight exciting cause 



536 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

will produce the disease. It does not often occur in childhood, 
is more common in men than women, and usually begins after 
thirty years of age. Next to hereditary predisposition, the cause 
is most commonly associated with the diet. Although it some- 
times occurs among the poor, it exists chiefly among the well-to- 
do or those in comfortable circumstances, who are given to the 
pleasures of the table and take very little exercise. Eating large 
quantities of meat, game, and other flesh or fish, especially when 
combined with the consumption of alcoholic liquors, particularly 
malt liquors, port wine, or sherry, contributes to that condition 
in which a larger amount of uric acid is formed than the system 
can eliminate, there not being consumed sufficient oxygen to 
convert all these materials into urea. Various occupations may 
predispose to it, as those which cause a sedentary life, or which 
tempt to the consumption of meat or alcohol in excess. Lead- 
poisoning even in a slight degree amongst painters, plumbers, type- 
founders, and others, also predisposes to it ; and worry, distress, 
or injury may induce an attack in a person who is predisposed to it. 

An attack of gout usually causes an inflammation of the joint 
of one big toe. It is frequently preceded for a short time by 
unusually good health, robustness, or exhilaration, but in some 
persons by mental depression, disturbed sleep, ringing in the 
ears, cramp in the limbs, itching of the skin, and other signs of 
disturbed health. After these premonitions have lasted a few 
days, the patient wakes in the night with an excruciating pain in 
the toe, which is swollen, tense, shining, and excessively tender. 
When the pain and fever pass off the patient may be in better 
health tha^n formerly, his system being somewhat cleared by the 
attack ; but other attacks may occur at intervals of months or 
years. The intervals tend to lessen. Other joints become affected 
in succession, as the opposite ankle, a shoulder or hip joint, and 
the small joints of the hands and feet. The swelling about the 
joints may be increased by white deposits, called tophi or chalk 
stones, by which deformity is produced. The stage of chronic 
gout is now reached. 

Besides the regular or ordinary gcut, there is an irregular or 
abarticular gout, which affects various organs and tissues, produc- 
ing gout in the stomach, gouty kidneys, gouty heart, gouty eczema, 
and degenerations of the bloodvessels. Gout may affect many 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 537 

tissues in a smaller degree than the joints. Few people over 
forty have not suffered from what they call 'rheumatism,' by 
which they mean aches and pains affecting muscles, tendons, and 
nerves, which should properly be called abarticular gout, because 
the responsible cause is uric acid, alone or in combination, floating 
in the blood. The acid, being deposited in the fibrous tissues of 
the affected parts, irritates the nerve-endings in the same way as 
any other foreign substance. People who suffer from this usually 
have a brick-dust sediment in their urine, a tired, weary feeling, 
headache, mental torpor, irritability, or ' fits of the blues.' The 
pains are of a shifting character, and nervous people suffer most 
severely. Pains in the loins, ' crick in the back,' cramp in the 
legs and feet, aggravated by cold and damp, often attributed to 
twists and sprains or ' rheumatism,' are really caused by 
diminished excretion or increased production of uric acid. 

The Treatment of Gout. — 1. During an attack of acute gout the 
patient should rest on a bed or couch. The diet should consist of 
4 or 5 pints of milk in twenty-four hours, which may be diluted 
with or given alternately with pure or alkaline waters, ordinary 
soda, lithia, or potash water. The joint should be wrapped in 
lint saturated with a strong solution of bicarbonate of soda, 
over which is placed a thick layer of cotton-wool, and the entire 
foot enveloped in a silk handkerchief. 

2. Chronic Gout, Articular and Aharticular. — If the patient's 
health is bad, we should not use a lowering regime, but allow a 
rather liberal diet of milk, eggs, oysters, chicken, pheasant, game, 
mutton, fish, an abundance of green vegetables, potatoes, or 
salads, and milk puddings. Undoubtedly a lyurin-frec diet is the 
best, such as milk, cream, eggs, butter, and cheese ; but it is 
impossible to confine the patient to this for a long time, and we 
must soon allow a little fish or chicken, some dry toast, fresh 
green vegetables, potato, and rice pudding. The patient should 
avoid the articles named below. 

3. The Prevention of Gout and Treatment of the Gouty Diathesis 
or Gonstitiition. — Forbid an excess of meat, fish, game, and all 
kinds of animal food, and all rich foods — pork, veal, sausage, 
duck, goose, salted or dried fish or meat (except fat bacon and 
ham). Fish, like other animal food, should be eaten sparingly ; 
oysters, lobster, crab, and other shell-fish, and fish which is rich 



538 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

in fat, as mackerel, herrings, mullet, eels, and salmon, are better 
avoided altogether. Also avoid rich soups, gravy, sauces, extracts 
of meats, entrees, hashes, and other made dishes ; food fried in 
fat, spices, pastry, rich puddings, pickles, vinegar, rhubarb, 
lemons, mushrooms, asparagus, dried peas and beans, tea and 
cofl'ee, and all sweet foods. 

Great moderation in the consumption of fat, as well as 
saccharine and gelatinous foods, is necessary. They tend to 
produce uricacidaemia by preventing the complete metabolism 
of proteids, and encourage an accumulation of waste matters. 
There is, however, no reason for withholding fat from a thin 
person, and Ebstein allows it in all cases, because it quickly satis- 
fies the appetite and reduces the consumption of carbohydrate and 
other food.-* Eggs are tabooed because of the lecithin they 
contain and the excessive amount of fat in the yolk ; but the 
white of eggs is permissible, and even the whole egg in cases 
where fat is not entirely forbidden. Lecithin and nucleo-proteids 
exist to some extent in the legumes, for which reason peas and 
beans are forbidden. 

Most vegetables are valuable and allowed, but mushrooms, 
truffles, and morels are forbidden. Tomatoes, spinach, sorrel, 
and asparagus are condemned because they contain oxalic acid 
(or its salts), which is a congener of uric acid. Very sweet fruits, 
whether fresh or dried, are unsuitable, because of the sugar they 
contain. 

All sweet wines, as port, sherry, Madeira, Marsala, Burgundy, 
strong claret, or sweet champagne, should be avoided, as well as 
ale, beer, stout, and porter. There are differences of opinion 
about cider : it contains malic acid in combination with potash, 
and is held by some authorities to favour the formation of uric 
acid, for which reason they prohibit it ; but others consider 
sparkling dry cider to be a useful diuretic, and to favour the expul- 
sion of uric acid. 

Alloio : Clear soup, vegetable broth, julienne, oyster, kidney, 
fish, or game soup. Fish : All the lighter kinds, as boiled sole, 
plaice, whiting, turbot, brill, flounder, cod, and fresh haddock. 
Meat : A little chicken, rabbit, pheasant, partridge, turkey, or 
mutton only once a day and in moderate quantity. Vegetables 
may be eaten abundantly, especially cabbage, savoy, brussels- 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 539 

sprouts, cabbage sprouts, cauliflower, vegetable marrow or 
squash, green peas or kidney beans, and a little mashed potato ; 
lettuce, celery, endive, cucumber, watercress, mustard and cress ; 
most ripe fruits, raw or cooked, especially apples. Carbohydrate 
may consist of stale bread, dry toast, rolls, crackers, zwiebach, 
oatmeal ; rice, sago, tapioca, vermicelli, macaroni, semolina, in 
the form of milk puddings ; also custard, junket, and blanc-mange. 
Stewed fruit and other articles should be sweetened with sac- 
charin or saxin, not with sugar. 

Drink should be taken to the extent of 3 or 4 pints a day ; it 
may consist of pure water, one of the alkaline waters, China tea, 
a little light claret, Hock, Moselle, dry sherry, or well-diluted 
spirit. Milk is easily digested by most people, and may be taken 
alone or combined with an alkaline water. Alcohol is the worst 
enemy of the gouty, because it decreases the excretion of uric 
acid and checks the functions of the liver. Water is the best 
friend, because it is a solvent of uric acid and the urates, and 
removes all kinds of waste material by flushing the system. 
Pure distilled water possesses this faculty in a remarkable 
degree, and is sold under various names, both still and aerated 
being put up in bottles for household use. Bath sulis water is a 
suitable alkaline water, and so is Apollinaris and many other of 
the alkaline natural waters. 

A gouty person should only eat three times a day, but a cup or 
two of tea may be taken about 5 p.m. Sobriety should never be 
departed from. Alcohol should betaken exceedingly sparingly or 
avoided altogether ; water should be drunk freely ; sugar should 
be replaced by saccharin : salad oil may be used in salads in 
place of vinegar ; and pickles and spices should be avoided. An 
open-air life should be led as far as possible to encourage 
metabolism, and care should be taken to avoid protracted mental 
or physical effort, which sometimes precipitates an attack. 

It is better for the form, quantity, and quality of the food to 
be stated ; indeed, the gouty person requires to be taught what 
and how much he may eat, because, although he may break rules 
readily enough, he will do so less often than if he had ignorance 
as an excuse for his errors. He should be forbidden ' to dine 
out,' even if he promises to be very moderate. The use of beer 
and wine retards tissue transformation by reducing oxidation, 



540 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and so are very injurious to the gouty ; besides, patients eat less 
when they do not drink with their food. Persons inclined to the 
production of fat will, under the influence of beer or wine, 
become very obese, have a red face and distended veins ; the 
functions of their liver and stomach become impaired, and gouty 
eifects follow. This consideration, as well as the fact that 
persons who drink neither wine nor beer are seldom gouty, 
should induce us to forbid their use altogether by these persons, 
or to have them stopped gradually. The fact that more food is 
eaten by persons who drink freely while eating suggests the 
propriety of their eating without drinking at all ; this would 
insure the more careful mastication of their food, and the liquids 
they drink may be taken before or after their meals. 

Coffee, tea, and cocoa are very active in causing uric acid and 
other purins to be formed within the body. The production and 
elimination of the ' purins ' has been increased as much as 
125 per cent, by drinking coffee. This we cannot be surprised at 
when we consider that caffeine is trimethylxanthin, and theo- 
bromine is dimethylxanthin, and belong to the group of purins 
which are transformed into uric acid. These liquids should 
therefore be excluded, or only allowed in very small quantity in 
the diet of the gouty. 

We should also exclude meat extracts, meat juice, rich gravy, 
strong soups, beef-tea, liver, sweet-bread, milt (spleen), brain, 
and fish roe. These foods are rich in the purin bodies which 
are readily converted into uric acid, and the output of purin is 
speedily increased 100 or 150 per cent, by their consumption. 
Dried meat, such as tongue or ham, can sometimes be eaten 
with impunity by gouty patients without increasing the purin 
output, but with increase of bodily strength and power, because 
there is a partial loss of the meat juices involved in the process 
of curing and drying. It has been previously observed that 
purins are derived from the nucleo-proteids of nitrogenous food, 
where they are combined with albumin in the cell nucleus and 
are called ' nucleins '; but they exist uncombined in the meat 
juices and extracts, and are therefore ready for speedy transforma- 
tion into uric acid. Some animal products are entirely free from 
' purins,' as milk, cream, new milk cheese, cream cheese, cheese, 
eggs, and butter, and these substances eaten with bread form 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 541 

practically a imrin-free diet. Nuclein exists in great abundance 
in vegetable tissues, especially in seeds like the pulses, peas, 
beans, lentils ; we should therefore exclude dried peas, beans, 
haricot beans, lentils, asparagus, mushrooms, and other vegetables 
known to be rich in nuclein or purin bodies. Most green vege- 
tables and salads are rich in salts which are valuable to the 
gouty, and may he eaten freely. Purins are injurious in every 
way ; this has been proved by experiments upon animals fed 
with them. A small daily dose, extending over several months, 
causes, in the lower animals, similar diseases of the liver and 
bloodvessels, and important changes in the cellular tissues, to 
those which occur in human beings. 

The value to gouty people of drinking daily a large quantity of 
water is due to the fact that the water contains nothing which 
would lessen the metabolism of the tissues by being itself con- 
sumed. It does not cause a less need for food, and fatigue is not 
better borne because of its consumption. It does not cause a red 
face, indigestion, liver complaint, and corpulence ; on the other 
hand, it hastens the metabolism of the tissues, washes the waste 
materials out of them, stimulates the secretion of the liver, 
kidneys, and skin, and is thereby as valuable to gouty people as 
tea, coffee, beef-tea, beer, wine, and spirits are injurious. 

The value of the alkaline salts in gout is rendered visible 
during ' a course of the waters,' containing carbonates and 
chlorides, at Vichy, Contrexeville, Marienbad, Baden, Carlsbad, 
Homburg, Kissingen, Neuenahr, Eger, "Wildbad, Wiesbaden, and 
at Hot Springs and other spas in America. Their beneficial effect 
exceeds that of ordinary water ; they reduce plethora, promote 
the metabolism of the tissues, remove waste products, and assist 
in their elimination. Opinion seems to be in favour of those 
which contain the most chloride of sodium, like the Kissingen 
and Homburg-Elizabeth waters, as being more beneficial for gout 
than those in which there is more bicarbonate and less chloride. 
The water of Woodhall Spa contains a large proportion of 
chlorides in addition to salts of iodine and bromine, that of 
Buxton has chloride and other salts of calcium ; both are held in 
high repute for the treatment of gout in its various forms. They 
act very largely by diluting the blood and urine, by dissolving the 
uric acid salts out of the tissues, by thinning the bile and 



542 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

stimulating the urea-producing function of the liver, and by 
washing the kidney tubules free of retained urates. The primary 
effect of some mineral waters — e.g., those containing sulphates — 
is to precipitate an attack of gout by rendering the uric acid 
insoluble ; but when this attack has passed off, the blood is freed 
from urates, and a continuance of the water stimulates nutrition 
and metabolism throughout the body, and the blood is kept clear 
from urates for a considerable time. 

Exercise. — By no means must we allow the patient to give him- 
self up to sluggish ease, but we must see that he exercises himself 
as much as his strength will allow. Muscular activity hastens 
metabolism and the elimination of waste materials, but a lazy and 
easy life does the opposite, and is bad for gouty persons. It is 
objected to this by some writers that exercise increases perspira- 
tion, but diminishes the excretion of urine ; that draining of the 
tissues and concentrating the urine prevents the ready removal of 
waste materials and encourages gouty or uratic deposits. To 
which it may be replied that if the patient drinks plenty of 
water and other liquids there will be ample fluid in the system to 
supply perspiration as well as urine. The effects of exercise are 
as follows : 

1. The action of the heart is increased in force and frequency ; 
the breathing is deeper and more rapid. 

2. More blood is driven through the lungs, and it is better 
purified ; more oxygen is inhaled, more carbonic acid and water 
exhaled, 

3. The circulation through the peripheral vessels is increased ; 
the small arteries, capillaries, and lymph spaces dilate ; the 
sweat glands are stimulated, perspiration is free, and the radiation 
of heat from the body is accelerated. 

4. A simultaneous decrease in the amount of urine occurs, 
owing to the increased loss of water through the skin {this objec- 
tion is replied to above). The excretion of urea, uric acid, and 
other nitrogenous matters, is not lessened, but may be increased,^^ 
because the perspiration is comparable to dilute urine. 

5. The muscular system is brought into active work, whereby 
the blood-supply to the muscles is increased, the circulation 
accelerated, their waste materials more rapidly carried away, and 
new material brought to them. When the subject is in a poor 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 543 

condition there may be a rise of uric aciJ, extractives, and phos- 
phoric acid, but this does not occur under normal conditions.-'"' 

It has been estimated that a walk of sixteen miles at the rate 
of three miles an hour by a man weighing 160 pounds involves 
the expenditure of energy equal to 300 foot- tons, and is as much 
as an average day's work.-'^ 

Eegular exercise in the open air increases combustion, radiation 
of heat, excretion of water and waste materials, and purifies the 
blood. It creates appetite, causes the circulation through the 
muscles to be more rapid, whereby more nutriment is brought to 
them and debris removed ; it hardens, enlarges, and strengthens 
the muscles. 

Excessive exercise or muscular work causes breathlessness and 
palpitation ; the pulse becomes small, the heart quick and 
irregular ; sufficient time is not allowed the heart for its proper 
pause or period of rest. In consequence the heart becomes 
enfeebled, and has to contract more often to do the same amount 
of work, which may lead to dilatation or hypertrophy. The 
muscles of the body also require rest to get rid of the accumulated 
waste products resulting from their activity and take in more 
oxygen ; without periods of rest all muscles become exhausted, 
their contractions enfeebled, and debility induced. 

In gouty persons indigestion or catarrh of the stomach must 
be treated. Dyspepsia is a common trouble. Sometimes the 
gouty person cannot assimilate the ordinary foods because his 
digestive organs are diseased, and not because he abuses ' the 
pleasures of the table.' There is abnormal fermentation in the 
alimentary canal, and deficient oxidation in the blood and tissues. 
Substances containing nuclein or purin are not properly oxidized 
into urea, but are transformed into uric acid. Meanwhile the 
uric acid, instead of being destroyed, as usual, is being further 
manufactured in the body by the chemical combination of glycin 
and urea. It is, therefore, chiefly by attention to the organs of 
digestion and assimilation, especially those which hasten the end 
of metabolism and cause the removal of their products, by the 
means detailed above, that we may hope to cure gout or alleviate 
very bad cases. 



544 FOOD AND HYGIENE 



CHRONIC RHEUMATISM. 

The effects of cold and damp upon people with a gouty 
tendency is to cause pain in the muscles, fibrous coverings, 
tendons, and tissues about the joints. Sir W. Gowers-" attributes 
this to a ' fibrositis ' or inflammation of the connective-tissue 
elements of the muscles, the coverings of tendons and nerves, 
whereby we get lumbago, wry-neck, stiff-neck, cramp in the 
muscles, sciatica, and neuralgia of various parts. Stockman ^'^ 
says there is a congestion of the muscles and fibrous coverings, 
and an increase in the fibrous elements of the affected muscles, 
nerves, joints, and bones. The increase of fibrous elements gives 
rise to swellings of a size varying from a pea to a walnut, which 
can be distinctly felt in the coverings of muscles and joints. 
These swellings cause constant aching and muscular fatigue; 
sudden movements increase the aching and cause excruciating 
pains. When sensory nerves are affected, the pain radiates over 
a wide area, and may be accompanied by change of sensation, as 
pricking, tingling, numbness. 

It is possible that the cause may be an irritation by microbes 
or their toxins. In acute rheumatism various micrococci produce 
formic and acetic acid by the decomposition of sarcolactic acid, 
which is one of the ordinary products of muscular activity. An 
albumose is also obtainable from the Micrococcus rheumaticus 
which is capable of sending the temperature up 3° or 4° F. and 
causing acute inflammation of joints. In chronic rheumatism 
there is a similar formation of toxic material : its nature, how- 
ever, is not clearly understood : but whether it be uric acid, lactic, 
formic, or other organic acid, it arises from defective metabolism, ^^ 
which process is disturbed in some way by a combination of cold 
and damp, and causes the production of the mater ies morbi. 

Treatment.— When there is a distinct personal or family 
history of gout, the treatment must be that which is detailed in 
the section dealing with it. In all other cases the diet may be 
a moderate mixed diet, consisting of ordinary plain food in 
sufficient quantity to meet the requirements of the body. It 
should be light, nutritious, and easily digestible : meat, fish, 
oysters, poultry, and game may be taken in tnoderaiion ; milk 



I! 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 545 

puddings of all kinds, milk, cheese, and eggs ; potatoes, most 
kinds of green vegetables, salads, and fruit, are valuable for their 
salines. A vegetarian diet suits some people the btst. Carbo- 
hydrates, such as bread, pastry, and sugar, should not be eaten in 
excess, and all kinds of indigestible food should be avoided. 
Butter, cream, and fat meat may be eaten abundantly, especially 
w^hen the nerves are affected. Tea and coffee may be allowed to 
the extent of one cupful at a meal. No alcohol should be taken 
if the individual temperament will bear total abstinence ; if not, 
we may allow a little dry cider, light wine, as Hock or Moselle, 
or diluted spirits, in preference to malt liquors. The best 
beverages are lemonade and pure water. 

Eesidence in a warm dry climate, free from frequent changes 
of temperature and fogs, is important. Living on a clay soil or 
in a damp region which is much affected by fogs should be 
avoided. Change of air to a high and dry bracing climate like 
that of Buxton or Clifton is very good ; also to Bournemouth or 
other warm seaside place which is not too humid ; but the seaside 
is unsuitable for some persons, especially those places which are 
exposed to north or east winds. Catching cold must be avoided ; 
sea and river bathing are forbidden ; the patient should wear 
flannel underclothing, woollen stockings, and stout boots with 
an inner lining or cork sock. 

If a person have an acute attack of lumbago, stiff-neck, or 
sciatica, he should rest absolutely. Hot fomentations are very 
good for some cases ; the application of dry and radiant heat by 
means of a hot flat-iron applied over flannel, or similar means, 
for others. Free perspiration, best obtained by Eussian or 
Turkish baths, gives great relief. Lumbago is sometimes relieved 
by the free perspiration induced by wearing an overcoat during a 
long walk. The pain is usually increased by exercise and move- 
ments generally, but is relieved by gentle massage — e.g., stroking 
or light friction with an embrocation or the dry hand, followed 
by passive movements. 

When the trouble has lasted a long time, ultimate benefit may 
be derived from exercises calculated to stretch fibrous tissues or 
break down adhesions, by gymnastic movements with a stick, 
clubs, dumb-bells, etc. Passive movements come under the head of 
massage. Electricity ib also useful in this stage, especially a 

35 



§46 ^FOOD AND HtGiENE 

rapidly interrupted faradic current, so weak afs to cause- only H- 
'sense 'of vibration, not of pain or pricliiing, for ten or fifteen 
tainutes at a time ; it assists in causing a shrinkage of swollen 
'fibrous tissues. The induced ^-flrrent ajpplied by an electric brush 
IS also good. Strong enrreintfe iiaorease the pain. In sciatica,, 
•galvanism should be begun i^n ^fe second week, one pole being, 
applied over the sacrum and th© ©itker over tbe most tender spot.. 

Counter-irritation by means of flying blisters, iodine paint, oil 
of mustard, horse-radish, or capsicum, is also very good. 

Treatment by hot air or radiant heat is valuable ; it is applied 
by the apparatus of Tallerman, Dowsing, Biers, or Schrieber ; 
the last is said to be the best. The apparatus should have at 
least two openings in it for ventilation, otherwise there will be 
very little diffusion of the hot air, which consequently becomes 
damp from the perspiration and irritating to the affected part. 
The object of this treatment is to produce an active congestion of 
the part, which results in a reduction of the swelling, clears away 
deposits of toxic materials, and improves general tone. The 
same effects are claimed for another method of treatment by 
Biers, which is as follows: The circulation of the affected joints 
or limb is almost completely arrested by an elastic bandage over- 
a layer of cotton-wool ; it is applied daily to the joint and a little: 
above and below it for five to twenty minutes, the time being 
gradually increased. On alternate days, and sometimes every 
day, after the former application the joint or limb is bathed with 
hot water at 120° to 130° F. In tlie intervals the joint is kept in 
a splint well padded with cotton-wool. 

Massage may be applied with advantage to painful muscles 
or joints, especially in chronic rheumatism. When nodules or 
swellings can be felt in the muscles or fibrous tissues of the back, 
loins, thighs, or joints, this treatment should be begun by gentle 
efBeurage, which will be soothing and comforting. Indurated 
nodes are too tender to bear more than that at first ; by-and-by 
they become less painful and will bear firm rubbing or kneading 
with the fingers or knuckles for ten or fifteen minutes at a time. 

In recent rheumatism two or three weeks of massage is 
enough ; but old rheumatism with indurated swellings may 
require six or twelve months' treatment. 

A few words upon massage may be useful. The movements of 



DEFECTS OE METABOLISM 647 

the masseur are as follows : Friction, or rubbing the surface of 
the limb with the fingers. Eflaeurage, or stroking the part with 
the palm of the hand, one or both hands being used in a regular 
manner and with more or less rapidity. The movements are 
towards the heart, and are usually done with the dry hand, but 
oil, vaseline, or embrocation, may be used at discretion. Petris- 
sage consists in picking up a piece of muscle or flesh with the 
thumb and fingers, and rolling it backwards and forwards ; or 
the muscle is subjected to firm pressure by rolling it between the 
fingers and subjacent tissues. Tapotement consists of percussion 
of the part with the finger-tips, fingers, palms of the hands, or 
the edge of the half-closed hand. Kneading is a more energetic 
form of the latter, and is applicable to the abdomen, back, or 
limbs, the knuckles of the hands being used. 

The effects of massage are chiefly upon the circulation and 
metabolism. Local massage stimulates the cellular nutrition and 
metabolism, and improves the lymphatic and blood circulation. It 
materially assists in removing deposits, indurations, toxic 
materials, and the products of defective metabolism from the 
part to which it is applied. General massage stimulates the 
whole vital functions, improves the circulation through the skin 
and muscles, stimulates organic changes, and improves the 
functions of the nerves. The result of experiments on massage 
"by Lauder Brunton and others show (1) that the flow of blood 
through the muscles is increased during the massage ; (2) that 
there is an accumulation of blood in the muscles immediately 
after massage, followed by an increased flow through them ; 
(3) that peripheral resistance to the circulation is reduced and 
arterial tension falls ; (-i) that gentle massage causes a larger 
drop in the blood-pressure than alternate compression and relaxa- 
tion of large bloodvessels or muscles.^i^ Mitchell has likewise 
shown that there is an increase in the proportion of the red 
blood corpuscles after general massage,^! which is beneficial to 
the patients. 

Mechanical vibrations and electrical vibrations are sometimes 
used as a substitute, and are of value in many cases where local 
massage is indicated. Bechterew made observations upon a 
number of healthy persons with vibrations ranging from 128 to 
286 per second. These caused a diminution of heat-loss from 

35—2 



548 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the skin, the' external temperature being lowered, while that in 
the rectum was increased ; the pulse was first slowed and then 
quickened, the respirations prolonged, and most persons were 
sleepy at the end of the sitting. 3- 

Local massage is suitable for most people. General massage 
is said to be quite unsuitable for persons of a nervous or sanguine 
temperament, because they do not need stimulation of any kind ; 
it exhausts them and intensifies their nervous condition; it is good 
for persons of the bilious, phlegmatic, or lymphatic temperament, 
and for hysterical persons with defects of the nerves of the skin 
or sluggish reflexes. People with most kinds of chronic ailments 
may be massaged, and the comfort and peace which follows it is 
usually beneficial ; the feeling of well-being and the refreshing 
sleep which it often induces has a decidedly favourable effect 
upon their system. 

Baths. — Spa treatment consists of (a) hydrotherapy, {b) drink- 
ing the waters. 

Hydrotherapy may cure recent rheumatism, but old-standing 
cases usually only get temporary relief. When combined with 
massage it promotes the absorption of indurations. This method 
of treatment depends for its results upon (1) the temperature of 
the water, (2) the volume or quantity and extent of its appli- 
cation, (3) the force of its impact. Its successful application 
also depends upon a proper reaction without undue stimulation 
following its use. It does not interfere with the action of drugs, 
and is usually combined with regulation of the diet, rest or 
exercise, change of air and water, massage, and electricity. 
Winternitz says* 'that water of the temperature of 90° F. is 
neutral to the human body ; that to produce a remedial efi'ect it 
must be used above or below that degree.' Warm baths applied 
to the whole surface of the body are soothing ; they cause a 
dilatation of the superficial bloodvessels, a feeling of turgesence 
and warmth, with increase of perspiration and respiration. The 
physiological result is an increase in the radiation of heat from 
the body, and of the amount of water excreted from the skin and 
lungs, with a corresponding increase in the excretion of carbonic 
acid and other waste materials. The intestinal movements or 
secretion maybe lessened and constipation induced. The general 
* Advanced Therapeutics, 1902, xi.,,752. 



i\ 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 549 

effect is a tendency to drowsiness, temporary languor, and mental 
inactivity, which, however, is soon followed by a cori-esponding 
reaction. General hot baths produce these effects in an increased 
degree. A local hot bath raises the temperature of the part, 
stimulates the local circulation, attracts blood from distant parts, 
increases the radiation of heat and evaporation of moisture, 
soothes the nerves, and is thereby anodyne. A hot fomentation 
or poultice is practically a local hot bath ; the general result of 
such an application is a freer circulation of blood through the 
part, increased metabolism, reduction of swellings or indurations, 
and relief of pain. Baths of 95° to 100° F. are preferable to 
those of higher temperature. A full bath of 105° to 110° F. is 
sometimes used, but care should be taken that the heart is sound, 
as syncope may be induced by it. Local hot baths or fomenta- 
tions at a temperature of 120° to 130° F. are used with benefit. 

A hot douche is applied to affected joints, muscles, and over 
various organs at a similar temperature in a single or divided 
stream to the most tender spot — e.g., in sciatica along the buttocks, 
hips, and down the back of the thigh. The size, height, and 
direction, as well as the temperature of the stream, have an 
influence upon the effect of the douche. A cold douche is some- 
times applied to affected parts; it cools the part to which it is ap- 
plied by causing a contraction of the bloodvessels, but it is speedily 
followed by a reaction or glow of warmth and increase of the 
circulation due to a secondary dilatation of the same vessels. 
The ' knee-douche ' consists of a stream of cold water from a 
hose-pipe or watering-can applied to the lower extremity. The 
stream is applied first to the heel, then up the calf of the leg, 
round to the front of the knee and downwards. It is very un- 
pleasant at first, and may cause a rush of blood to the head, but 
it is said to stimulate the whole nervous system. It is applied 
for thirty to ninety seconds, and only repeated occasionally. The 
application is always stopped when the skin becomes red ; it is 
said to be of most value in cases of gout and chronic rheumatism. 
Eussian or vapour baths and Turkish or hot-air baths do less 
good in chronic rheumatism than ordinary warm-water baths, or 
such water to which an alkali has been added. Bathing at the 
Spas of Buxton, Bath, Harrogate, Droitwich, Woodhall, and 
Strathpeffer in Britain ; of Aix-les-Bains, x\ix-la-Chapelle, Baden- 



550 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Baden, Contrex6ville, and Wiesbaden in Europe ; and of Hot 
Springs, Arkansas, in the United States, is very suitable. Mud- 
baths at Salsamaggiore and other places are frequently bene- 
ficial. 

Drinking the Waters.— The waters which contain much lime in 
a natural solution are much extolled for rheumatism — those of 
Buxton, Bath, Contrexeville, St. Galmier, Tarasp, Pougues ; and 
the Bonifacius, Saratoga-Vichy, and the Seltzer waters at Men- 
docius in America, are good. Next in importance are the brine 
waters of Droitwich in England ; the Homburg- Elizabeth, 
Kissingen, Aix-la-Chapelle, Johannisbrunnen, Taunus, and the 
Eoman Spa in Europe ; the Albany Artesian, the Lansing, and 
the Hat-horn Springs in America ; and the bromo-iodine waters 
of Woodhall Spa, England, and Salsamaggiore, Italy. All alka- 
line waters, which by their regular consumption dilute the liquids 
of the tissues, wash out waste materials, and prevent the deposits 
which give rise to gouty or rheumatic symptoms, are useful for 
home consumption. 

Climate for winter resorts : Italy, Genoa, the Eiviera, Mentone, 
SanBemo, Madeira, Canaries, Bermuda, Algeria, Egypt, Morocco; 
in America, Long Island, parts of Colorado, Texas, California, 
and South Carolina ; in Britain, the Isle of Wight, the Scilly 
Isles, Cornwall, South Devon, Hastings, Tenby, Aberystwyth, 
Clifton, Bournemouth, South-West Ireland, provide a suitable 
residence for this class of people. 

CHRONIC RHEUMATIC GOUT (ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS). 

This is probably a mixture of gout and rheumatism ; it is more 
common in women than men, and in poor people rather than the 
rich. If it is of gouty origin, there will be a history of ordinary 
attacks of gout in earlier years ; possibly chalk stones are to be 
felt in the ears and affected joints, or there has been uric acid 
gravel in the urine. If of rheumatic origin, there would probably 
be a history of rheumatic fever, of having lived a long time on a 
clay soil, or been much exposed to wet and damp. 

The treatment must be a modification of that for chronic 
rheumatism. A generous diet should be given, including fish, 
poultry, meat, eggs, milk, cream, butter, plenty of fresh 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 551 

vegetables, with nourishing wine or spirits. Most kinds of food 
are permissible, provided they do not cause indigestion ; cod- 
liver-oil and other fats are serviceable. Warm flannel clothing, 
residence in a warm dry climate, massage, counter-irritation to 
the joints, and galvanism are very useful. The consumption of 
food containing sulphur, as onions, mustard, or horse-radish, and 
the internal administration of sulphur or its application to the 
joints on flannel is good. Treatment at the Spas by sulphuretted 
or ferruginous waters, at Harrogate, Leamington, Teplitz, Eger, 
Kissingen, or Homburg, may give relief. 

GRAVEL, OXALURIA, LITHiEMIA. 

Defective metabolism, deficient oxidation, diseases of the liver, 
and other conditions, lead to the formation of an excessive 
amount of uric acid, or its insufficient elimination. The condi- 
tions which produce lithaemia, uric-acidoemia, and gravel, are 
practically the same as lead to gout, and require similar 
treatment. 

The effect of lithasmia is to produce weariness, languor, de- 
pression of spirits, melancholy, unrefreshing sleep, dyspeptic 
symptoms, flatulence after eating, sluggish bowels, and inter- 
mittent pulse. It is very common among professional men who 
have great mental work to do, men of literary habits, those who 
have a sedentary occupation and get little fresh air or exercise 
out of doors. Excess of uric acid in the blood is a frequent 
cause of migraine or sick headache, and of neuralgia, sciatica, and 
various gouty or rheumatic affections, which render the person 
unable to perform with pleasure the duties of life. 

Gravel is one of the troubles arising from undue accumulation 
of uric acid in the blood and tissues. The crystals of uric acid 
are deposited in the urinary passages and voided in the urine^ 
when I that liquid is too acid, too concentrated, or otherwise 
unsuited for its solution. The little particles form a sandy or 
brick-dust sediment of lithates, or look like cayenne pepper in 
the utensil, or form larger masses of gravel varying from a pin's 
head to a pea in size. This trouble is common in the gouty, 
when aided by high living and a sedentary occupation. It is a 
frequent, cause of. backaahe, of heat or scalding in the urethra, 



552 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

frequent micturition, strong acid urine, and occasionally blood in 
the urine. Oxalic acid gravel or oxaluria is a deposit from the 
urine of crystals of oxalate of lime in a pale, gray, mucus-like 
sediment. Oxalic acid is a congener of uric acid ; its production 
is due to a disturbance of metabolism, and increased by an 
excessive consumption of vegetables which contain it. It is 
usually preceded and attended by indigestion, languor, mental 
depression, hypochondria, or other nervous symptoms. 

But over and above the deposits found in the urine are the 
stones or calculi formed in the pelvis of the kidney or bladder, 
vphich may consist of pure uric acid, urate of sodium, xanthin, 
oxalate of lime, triple phosphate, and phosphate or carbonate of 
lime. The nucleus of each calculus is usually uric acid or 
sodium biurate, but the starting-point may be urinary casts or a 
small blood-clot. Their formation is frequently begun in the 
kidneys. According to Eolfe, the kidneys fail to excrete uric 
acid or oxalate of lime brought to them by the blood, and these 
substances become fixed in the cells and bound together by a 
matrix of colloid material ; once started they grow by accretion. 
Eoberts showed that their formation is favoured by great acidity 
of the urine or a decrease in the salts of the blood. Normal urine 
will deposit uric acid if it is allowed to stand three or four hours, 
which is physiological ; but if the uric acid is deposited in the 
urinary organs, or in the utensil soon after the urine is passed, it is 
pathological. The reason why we do not normally pass uric acid 
in our urine is because the salts of the urine prevent its deposit. 
Alkalinity of the urine always postpones, and acidity hastens, the 
breaking up of urates in the body and precipitation of uric acid 
gravel. Therefore salts of soda; potash, lithia or lime, by 
rendering the urine alkaline, will prevent or cure gravel. Potash 
is the best. When uric acid is in excess in the blood, sodium 
carbonate will form sodium biurate ; this is less soluble than 
sodium quadurate, the normal form in which it exists in the 
blood. Lithia dissolved in the stomach is readily taken up by the 
blood and forms with uric acid a soluble salt which is readily 
washed out. 

Tlie Diet. Brieily, give an abundance of pure water, or water 
which contains an alkali, alkaline carbonates, or chlorides. 
Eeduce the consumption of animal food to the minimum which 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 553 

will supply the nitrogen required for daily consumption ; better 
still, replace all animal food by a purin-free diet, consisting of 
milk, eggs, cream, butter, cream cheese, new-milk cheese, or 
cheese, with rice pudding or farinaceous foods (of which oatmeal 
is highly recommended), fruit, cooked vegetables, salads, and 
white bread ; plenty of salt should be eaten with everything. 
Very little tea, coffee, cocoa, or alcohol ought to be consumed. 
Coffee and beer are positively injurious, by preventing the excre- 
tion of waste products ; experiments show that both these 
substances decrease the output of urea, and that the excretion of 
urea is the greatest when they are withheld. All purin-bearing 
substances must be reduced in amount ; it should therefore not 
be forgotten that peas, beans, lentils, onions, asparagus, and 
other vegetables contain purin, and also nuclein which is decom- 
posed in the body into purin bases. 

The diet should therefore be that which has already been 
detailed for gout. There are, however, differences of opinion on 
the matter : some authorities say avoid fat meat, sugar, and fruit, 
and live chiefly upon milk and carbohydrates ; others say eat 
meat and reduce carbohydrate and fat, as in the Salisbury 
treatment. But it is quite certain that excessive consumption of 
any kind of food may lead to the formation of gravel or stone ; it 
is therefore wise to allow only a moderate amount of diet on the 
normal lines, checking all excesses, and especially avoiding the 
substances which are known to increase or favour the formation 
of uric acid. Alcohol in any form increases uric acid formation, 
and its consumption must be checked. 

The salines of the blood and urine are deficient in all cases of 
gravel, which is one cause of its production ; therefore foods 
which are known to be specially rich in them ought to be con- 
sumed freely. Eoberts gives the following table showing the 
percentage of salines in flour to be 0"51, rice 0-39, milk 5'6, 
meat 5-2, fish 7'0, oysters 23-0, vegetables 11-0, and salads 12-0. 
Stone rarely affects the children of well-to-do people, and the 
fact that the poor are so often troubled by it is because they live 
more upon the cereals, which are poor in salines. 

The value of common salt as a prevention and cure of gravel 
and stone is evidenced by the fact that sailors and other men 
who live largely upon sailed meat are rarely troubled by these 



554 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

affections ; and the same remark applies to people who constantly 
drink brackish waters. Another explanation of the fact that 
salted or dried meat does not cause gravel or stone is that in 
curing it some of the meat-juice containing purins is lost, in 
consequence of which such meat contains less extractives or 
purin-bodies than fresh meat ; it is indeed true that some of the 
muscle-serum containing albumin and salts is lost by ' salting ' 
the meat, but that can hardly reduce it to a purin-free material, 
so that the effect is probably very largely due to the added salt. 

People who are subject to the oxalic acid gravel must avoid all 
kinds of food which contain oxalates — e.g., spinach, sorrel, 
rhubarb, tomatoes, beet, celery, haricot beans, grapes, plums, 
gooseberries, currants, strawberries, raspberries, pepper, black 
tea, cocoa. Oxalic acid is a congener of uric acid, and its forma- 
tion in the body is due to defective metabolism ; wherefore a 
purin-free diet is the best, although animal food of a digestible 
quality is admissible. Toepfer* does not think oxaluria is 
increased by vegetables which contain oxalic acid ; but that an 
excess of lime in their food leads to it — i.e., oxaluria patients 
either take too much lime in their food, or their metabolism in 
respect to it is defective. He suggests a different diet according 
to the type of patient who has the trouble, a meat diet doing 
good in diabetic patients, but should be withheld from uratic 
ones ; that an abnormal digestion of carbohydrate or proteid 
material requires a re-adjustment of the food ; but the only cases 
in which he withholds foods known to contain oxalic acid are 
those in which there is a marked tendency to the formation of 
calcium oxalate stones. 

In all cases the digestion must be aided by fresh air and 
exercise, or by medicine when necessary. Massage will assist in 
improving the metabolism and general tone of the system. An 
abundance of fluid should be drunk to dilute the blood, wash out 
the cellular tissues, and increase the action of the kidneys, for 
which purpose free potations of pure or distilled water answer 
very well. But inasmuch as the salines of the blood and urine 
are below the normal, and such deficiency induces a deposition 
of uric acid, we must increase those salts as well as we can by 
giving them in water. For this purpose the carbonate or citrate^ 

*■ Wien. Klin. Vortrdgc ; Brit. Med. Jour., 1904, i., Epitome, 353, 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 555 

of the alkalies is proper ; equivalent doses are lithia 5 grains, soda 
12 grains, potash 14 grains, potash being the best. They may be 
formed into an aerated water, each siphon of which maybe arranged 
to contain a daily dose ; or they may be taken in plain water. A 
large dose of such a salt should always be taken at bedtime to 
keep the urine alkaline during the hours of sleep, for the pre- 
cipitation of uric acid and formation of gravel is most favoured by 
long abstinence from food or long retention of the urine in the 
bladder. The mineral waters most suitable for this purpose may 
be classified thus : 

The alkaline waters of ApoUinaris, Vichy, Ems, Vals, Carlsbad, 
and Wildbad in Europe ; Hot Springs, Virginia ; Bethesda, 
"Wisconsin ; Congress Spring, California ; and the Oja Caliente in 
New Mexico, U.S.A. 

The lithia waters of Bonifacius in Germany, the Buffalo Lithia, 
Harris Lithia, and Geneva Eed Cross waters of the United States. 
Waters containing a natural solution of salts of lime with 
carbonate of soda, as those of Bath, Buxton, Tarasp, Con- 
trexeville, St. Galmier, Wildungen, and Pougues in Europe ; and 
the Saratoga- Vichy or Seltzer Spring at Mendocius in U.S.A. 

The saline waters rich in chlorides of Woodhall Spa, Aix-la- 
Chapelle, Kissingen, Eoman Spa, Salsamaggiore, Johannisbrunnen, 
and Taunus in Europe ; the Albany Artesian, the Lansing, and 
the Hat-horn Springs in America. 

Baths of the same waters may be used, whereby the general 
metabolism is promoted. 

The waters which are aerated or contain much carbonic acid 
gas are the pleasantest to drink, and are usually drunk cold or 
nearly so ; those which are not well aerated are better drunk 
warm. It is not necessary to be always drinking these waters. 
The formation of uric acid should be looked upon as a bad habit, 
and the sign of an attack of gravel coming on is a pain in the 
back or a deposit in the urine in the morning. The kidneys and 
tissues of the body should then be flushed with water to remove 
such material ; but when the symptoms are abated the patient 
should be treated chiefly through the food. When, however, a 
stone exists in the kidney or bladder, or deposits form about the 
joints, a much longer course of waters is necessary. 



556 FOOD AND HYGIENE 



ANEMIA AND CHLOROSIS. 



Anaemia occurs in very many diseases as a secondary effect 
from constant discharges, frequent loss of blood, and haemorrhages 
of every kind and degree. It is, however, frequently a primary 
disease resulting from deficient digestion or assimilation of food, 
from working in hot and ill-ventilated rooms, and long residence 
in a tropical climate. Defective metabolism induces such a con- 
dition that the formation of red blood corpuscles and haemoglobin 
is deficient, or their destruction is excessive. Hypochlorhydria 
and atony of the stomach are frequently associated with it. 
Anaemia occurs as the result of many diseases, but special groups 
are made of disease of the spleen, lymphatic glands and bones, 
and other diseases in which the white blood-cells are produced in 
abnormal quantity ; of blood poisons, such as syphilis and 
malaria ; of cases arising from haemoglobinuria and the malarial 
parasite ; of the worm (Botliriocephalus anamice) and ankylosto- 
miasis. Pernicious anaemia is due to obscure causes, but is often 
very progressive and fatal. 

In the treatment it is of the first importance that the organs 
of digestion and assimilation be put into working order, that 
they be constantly watched so that nutrition may be promoted. 
Oxygen is very important ; it is life-giving and strengthening, the 
vital force of the blood ; but carbonic acid gas, carbon monoxide, 
and the gases which pollute the air from the combustion of coal- 
gas, by leakage from drains or sewers, and in overcrowded rooms, 
are poisonous and very destructive to the blood. Brown-Seguard^^ 
found in the air expired by human beings and animals a poisonous 
volatile principle far more dangerous than carbonic acid ; it 
diminishes the power of respiration, produces debility, induces a 
sort of paralysis of the extremities, and is fatal to animals. To 
obtain abundance of fresh air and avoid the respiration of dele- 
terious gases is therefore equally important. Such patients must 
avoid the use of tight corsets or waist-bands, which, by constric- 
tion, interfere with respiration and, consequently, the oxygenation 
of the blood. They must avoid overheated and badly ventilated 
apartments, and take regular exercise in the open air. In bad 
cases entire rest of the body may be necessary until some im- 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 557 

provement is made ; at any rate, they should get up late and go 
to bed early, and should have the windows of their apartments 
open day and night, and during fine warm weather they may lie 
in a hammock out-of-doors. In all ordinary cases exercise, short 
of fatigue, should be taken every day. Deep-breathing, dumb- 
bell, and other gymnastic exercises not only exercise and 
strengthen the muscles, but they expand the lungs, stimulate 
the circulation through them, and expose a larger amount of 
blood to the air, whereby oxygenation is improved. Walking, 
running, jumping, skipping, tennis, badminton, golf, riding horse- 
back, all increase the depth of breathing and, consequently, the 
oxygenation of the blood. Girly, as a rule, leave off their hoop, 
skipping-rope, and other outdoor games too early in life, which is 
one of the reasons they so readily become antemic. Eest in bed 
is necessary in severe cases ; it benefits the neurasthenia, reduces 
the destruction of blood-cells, and regulates gastric functions.*^ 

The food should contain plenty of meat and all kinds of animal 
food : scraped meat, raw meat (which is digested more easily 
than cooked meat), underdone meat, bone-marrow, eggs, milk, 
cream, fat of ham or bacon, and any other kind of fat ; also oat- 
meal porridge, maize-meal mush, or polenta. Salads and all other 
digestible green vegetables are valuable ; the latter must be taken 
as consomme or puree if otherwise indigestible. Plenty of salt 
should be eaten with all food, and, if it seems desirable, the 
digestion may be aided by the use of pepsin or other artificial 
digestant. Milk and gruel may also be peptonized before being 
taken. A little porter, stout, port, burgundy, or Australian wine 
may be allowed; they encourage nutrition and stimulate appetite. 
A few things should be avoided — e.g., clear soup or broth, hashed 
meat, and salted or dried meat, which has already lost some of 
its nutriment and is not so easily digested ; also vinegar, pickles, 
lime-juice, lemons, and all foods which cause indigestion {q.v.). 
Vinegar is capable of causing a high degree of emaciation, lessens 
the alkalinity of the blood and the number of corpuscles (Bauer). 

The meals should be frequent : a cupful of hot milk ought to be 
taken on waking in the morning ; breakfast should consist of porridge 
followed by an egg, fish, fat smoked bacon, or fresh meat, with 
bread-and-butter ; lunch in the middle of the morning, consisting 
of a raw egg and milk, raw-beef tea, a little scraped meat in port 



558 . FOOD AND HYGIENE 

wine, and a biscuit or two ; dinner at midday ougtit to consist 
of thickened soup, underdone meat, game, poultry, vegetables, 
potato, fruit, or milk pudding ; tea, consisting of bread-and-butter 
with honey, jam, or marmalade; supper should be more or less 
like dinner^ and vmst contain either meat, fish, or porridge. 

Two things are necessary for the formation of good blood : iron 
and certain salts. The percentage of iron in wheat = 0-26, oat- 
meal 0-67, maize 1"23, barley 0'97, rice 1-23, rye 2-54, potato 1*18, 
from which is seen that these are important articles of food. 
Milk, which is so valuable in other respects, is deficient in iron ; 
but this element is abundant in meat, especially liver and spleen, 
and raw meat is one of the best means of getting it. The salts 
of iron have long been used in the treatment of ansemia and 
other diseases dependent upon an altered state of the blood, and 
much benefit is derived from their general tonic influence. But 
there is an absence of direct evidence to show that inorganic 
preparations of iron are really capable of entering into the com- 
position of blood-cells ; indeed, the available evidence is rather 
against it. Organic forms of iron, on the other hand, such as 
exist in meat, especially in liver, spleen, and other animal and 
vegetable albuminous substances which compose our food, are 
readily assimilated, and pass into tissue and blood formations. 
All organic forms of iron are therefore good in aniBmia and 
chlorosis, and of especial value to the dwellers of towns and 
those who live and work in close, ill-ventilated rooms or ware- 
houses. The normal supply of iron to the body is hsematogen, 
an iron-containing compound of the nature of nucleo-albumin in 
animal and vegetable cells. If growing animals are deprived 
of this they waste, in spite of the administration of inorganic 
iron salts.-^'^ Experiments show that animals who are fed on . 
food which does not contain iron lose 40 per cent, of the total 
iron in their body in three weeks ; but when they are fed on food . 
containing organized iron, that substance is absorbed from the 
duodenum and jejunum, the iron is stored in the liver and spleen,, 
the red blood cells increase in number, and iron is excreted by 
the liver, kidneys, and large intestines.^'^ Stockmann'^" states- 
that the ordinary daily diet contains 9 or 10 milligrammes of 
iron, but that of chlorotic people who take but little food only 
about 3 milligrammes. He further states that : 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 559 

1 litre* of milk contains 2 to 4 "3 milligrammes of iron. 

100 grammes of dried bread contain 0"85 to 1 milligramme of iron. 
,, ,, dried oatmeal contain 3 "5 ,, ,, 

,, ,, yellow ox-marrow contain 2 "5 to 4 "0 ,, ,, 

,, ,, red calf-marrow contain 7 '6 to 8 "7 ,, ,, 

,, ,, dried beef-steak contain 3 "9 ,, ,, 

* About 900 gi-ammes. 

The importance of the salines for the composition of the blood 
is well known, and foods which contain them are essential in 
antemia and chlorosis — e.g., milk, meat, fish, oysters, and par- 
ticularly green vegetables and salads. Potassium salts are 
abundant in all green plants in the form of tartrates, citrates, 
malates, and oxalates, likewise in potatoes and cereals ; phos- 
phorus, mainly as phosphate of potassium, in the cereals. Iron 
plays an important part in the formation of chlorophyl in plants, 
and its presence in green vegetables of all kinds is a point worthy 
of observation in the treatment of anaemia. 

In the treatment of some cases of anaemia and chlorosis change 
of air and mental rest in a high and dry region is essential, 
especially when overwork, overstudy, or mental distress has 
been a factor in its causation. Buxton, Matlock, Malvern, and 
Clifton are suitable places. Margate and Brighton are serviceable 
in some cases, and so are numerous foreign health resorts. 

Drinking the sulphurous or ferruginous waters is highly recom- 
mended at Harrogate, Leamington, Pitkeathly, or that of Flit- 
wick in Britain ; at Pyrmont, Spa, Homburg, Birmensdorf, 
Orezza, St. Moritz, Aix-la-Chapelle, Bareges, Bagneres, and 
Enghein ; also the arsenical waters of La Bourboule, Levico in 
the Tyrol, and Roncegno in Italy ; or the various sulphate of 
iron waters in the United States. Opinions differ as to the value 
of inorganic iron even in water. Bunge, Morner, and others 
assert that it is not absorbed, and is only beneficial by removing 
sulphuretted hydrogen from the bowels, and checking putrefactive 
processes which destroy haematogen in the intestine. Other 
observers, including Noorden^s and Stockmann,^'' assert that 
inorganic iron is absorbed, and is very efiicient in the treatment 
of anaemia and chlorosis, thereby bearing out the experience of 
-centuries in the use of ferruginous waters. 



5G0 .FOOD AND HYGIENE 

SKIN DISEASES. 

Many diseases of the skin are associated with a disturbance of 
the metabolic functions of the body, whereby an irritation is 
caused, and various forms of inflammation of the integument 
produced in persons predisposed to them. Thus eczema often 
occurs in the gouty. It occurs in ruddy and robust persons as 
well as the ill-nourished, and we can often find errors in the diet 
which have contributed to its causation. Boils are indirectly due 
to the diet or faulty metabolism ; acne is often the result of 
injudicious feeding, and acne rosacea is a frequent result of 
intemperance. Urticaria or nettle-rash is a frequent result of 
unsuitable food ; lichen, especially the form known as ' prickly 
heat,' is induced in some people by indiscretion in diet combined 
with a hot climate. No special article of diet can be impugned 
as a cause of psoriasis, but alcohol aggravates it. Too limited 
an amount of liquids to enable the kidneys to perform the function 
of eliminating waste products promotes the gouty tendency which 
underlies some forms of eczema. The persistent omission of 
fresh green vegetables, salads, and ripe fruit from the dietary 
leads to a weakening and loosening of the tissues, with alteration 
of the blood or bloodvessels, and a condition of the integument 
which in its highest development is scurvy.'"* The excessive 
consumption of sugar and all things containing it is said to be a 
cause of eczema, and the cessation of its use facilitates the cure,^i 
and all skin diseases are aggravated by unsuitable food. 

In acute affections of the skin, as acute eczema, urticaria, 
erythema, purpura, erysipelas, scarlatina, measles, roseola, 
chicken-pox, small-pox, the diet must be similar to that required 
in all other forms of acute illness. When it is attended by 
feverishness it must consist of milk, sometimes diluted with an 
alkaline water, milk puddings, custard, junket, jelly, isinglass 
and milk, eggs, and farinaceous foods. If the temperature is 
normal we may add to the list veal or chicken broth, light fish — 
e.g., sole, plaice, whiting, or turbot — a little chicken, pheasant, or 
rabbit, then boiled mutton, plenty of good bread-and-butter, and 
milk-puddings. Perhaps a little light wine may be useful for 
adults and a few drops of brandy for children. In urticaria the 
treatment is best begun by giving an emetic and purgative to 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 561 

remove the offending material which has caused it ; and saline 
purgatives are useful in most acute affections of the skin. 

All clironic skin diseases should be treated according to the 
cause. The diet must be that suitable to any disease vphich 
complicates it. When, however, there are no special indications, 
we must give due attention to the stomach and eliminating 
organs, and all foods calculated to upset the stomach and liver 
must be avoided (see ' Indigestion '). In many chronic affections 
of the skin the disease is of an exhausting character. It is not 
unusual to hear those afflicted say that they cannot perform 
their duties with the zeal and energy of former days. In very 
many cases there is a decided condition of subnutrition or mal- 
assimilation, and in others the food is not sufficiently nutritious 
for them. The absence of suitable food and the non-observance 
of proper meal-times aggravates many skin diseases. Sometimes 
these people work too hard and exhaust themselves, or they 
worry and allow themselves to become anxious about their 
affairs, whereby the condition of exhaustion is increased or 
readily induced. Many patients, because they are too exhausted 
to eat or from want of appetite, go without food in the middle 
of the day ; or they have tea and bread-and-butter, perhaps with 
a sausage or bloater or some other insufficient source of proteid 
as a 'relish,' These methods are very far from assisting to cure 
skin diseases, and they must be improved. There must be proper 
meals and intervals of rest, and an attempt should be made to 
remove friction, worry, anxiety, and all causes of nervous and 
physical exhaustion. 

In a very large majority of chronic cases — e.g., eczema, 
psoriasis, acne, urticaria, lupus, lichen, and scrofuloderma — the 
food may consist of the ordinary and customary articles derived 
from the animal and vegetable kingdoms— that is to say, a mixed 
diet — care always being taken to avoid all things which will cause 
indigestion and liver complaint (q.v.). The patient must avoid 
salted and dried meat or fish, pork, veal, shellfish, pickles, spices, 
dressed dishes, hashed meat, soup containing coarse vegetables, 
oatmeal, new bread, bran bread, and sometimes potatoes, strong 
tea and coffee, wine and malt liquors. Salted meat is not suitable, 
because some of the nutritive substances as well as extractives 
have been drawn from it by the salt, and the fibres hardened 

36 



562 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and saturated by salt and saltpetre, which are mischievous. 
Meat preserved with sugar is not so bad. Sugar withdraws less 
of the juice of meat than salt ; it does not alter the taste, but 
forms a solid crust around the meat, which may be washed off 
before cooking.^^ Sugar and cheese are objected to by some 
authorities. Milton ^'^ sees no reason why they should not both be 
taken in moderation; but Macdonald-*^ asserts that the excessive 
use of sugar in any form is a predisposing cause of eczema, and 
cessation of its use facilitates its cure. Potatoes are objected to 
by others ; but surely they only object to an excess of carbo- 
hydrate, for potatoes are an excellent antiscorbutic and a valuable 
addition to the dietary in most skin diseases, because of the 
salines contained in them. An absence of fresh vegetables from 
the food is evidenced in many persons by scurvy, spongy gums, 
indented tongue, foul breath, tendency to bleeding, coarseness of 
the skin, and muddy complexion. Green vegetables, salads, and 
most kinds of fruit, are valuable in skin affections. Tea and 
coffee are the best stimulants, but must not be taken to excess. 
Lemonade made with fresh lemons, and lemon juice diluted with 
an aerated water or an alkaline water or with cold tea, is. a 
suitable drink, especially in the weeping stage of eczema. 

Monotony of food causes skin diseases in some persons, where- 
fore they are common in boarding-schools and other institutions 
where a regular round of diet is observed. Variation of the diet 
is absolutely necessary, for monotony even of the best kinds leads 
to satiety, loathing of food, and malnutrition. The better the 
feeding, so long as the material is digestible, the healthier the 
skin should be. But extremes are mischievous ; high-feeding and 
overfeeding are as bad as starvation. Too much animal food is 
injurious, for eczema is often seen in large eaters of meat. 

Many temperate persons and total abstainers are afflicted with 
skin diseases ; but we usually find that an excess of alcohol is a 
cause, or a very common means of aggravating them. Beer and 
malt liquors are very injurious. Sweet wines — e.g., Madeira, 
Marsala, sherry, port, and sweet champagne — are equally dele- 
terious. When a little stimulant is necessary it should consist 
of claret. Burgundy, real Tarragona, a glass of old port, a little 
Hock, Chablis, Sauterne, Saumur, or dry champagne. 

Children with eczema, impetigo, ecthyma, and similar affections, 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 563 

should have plenty of good bread-and-butter, milk, milk puddings, 
farinaceous foods, broth, light fish, eggs, chicken, rabbit, a little 
fresh meat, with potato and vegetables. Too much animal food 
is injurious to them, especially lean meat. Chicken, rabbit, and 
fish are less stimulating than meat, though there is practically no 
difference in the amount of extractives yielded by either of them. 
Uncooked milk is said to be prejudicial to children with skin 
diseases, and condensed milk is certainly not a correct food for 
them. Shellfish, the coarser kinds of vegetables and fruit, and 
sweetmeats, must not be permitted. 

In chronic urticaria and psoriasis the food should be similar to 
that detailed above. Fat ham, fat bacon, or a little fresh meat, 
may be eaten for breakfast, after which time the less butcher's 
meat the better. The midday meal may consist of clear soup 
of mutton, veal, or chicken, thickened with vermicelli or 
macaroni; chicken, pheasant, rabbit, and nearly every kind of 
fresh fish, may be allowed (but heating sauces must be avoided), 
and eggs in every form ; potatoes, yams, peas, beans, lentils, 
haricot beans ; milk puddings. In lichen the food must be light 
and unstimulating, all heavy materials being avoided, as well as 
ale, stout, and everything lial)le to cause indigestion. Lupus also 
requires an essentially light diet, but it must be nutritious and 
sufficient to supply the needs of the economy. Oysters and 
poultry are good, but highly stimulating food, including heating 
wines, is injurious. 

Boils and carbuncles necessitate a thoroughly nourishing food, 
and a liberal supply of good port wine is beneficial for the latter. 
In acne the diet should be the same as for eczema ; but only a 
small amount of meat should be taken, especially at the midday 
meal, and only potato as a vegetable.-*^ Tea, especially China 
tea, is good for these cases, but all kinds of indigestible food, 
heating sauces, and stimulants must be avoided. Acne rosacea is 
frequently due to debility. In men the most common cause is 
intemperance, by which metabolism is disturbed and the health 
deteriorated. In women the most common cause is a disturbance 
of the menstrual functions, whereby debility is induced. The 
diet may be that for chronic eczema. All kinds of stimulant are 
not equally bad for this complaint. Beer is less deleterious than 
wine or spirits, and some wines are less so than others. A lio-ht 

36—2 



564 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Ehenish or Austrian wine, being poor in alcohol, is not so likely 
to cause or increase it as the fiery and spirituous wines of 
Hungary and Spain. A moderate amount of light red wine is 
beneficial to most women, when accompanied by a generous diet ; 
but wherever alcoholic excess is suspected to cause or aggravate 
the disease it must be given up entirely. 

Besides attending to the diet, we must look after all other matters 
which have an influence upon the skin. In particular we must 
give due attention to the functions of the digestive, eliminatory,and 
generative organs. Eheumatism, gout, diabetes, anaemia, struma, 
and all constitutional taints, must be treated upon correct lines. 

Exercise in the open air is valuable in many cases, especially 
when the skin trouble is caused or complicated by gout, rheu- 
matism, or general ill-health, possibly with business worry, over- 
work, or anxiety. But when anaemia and debility are strongly 
marked, the patient should lie in the open air as much as possible, 
or be taken for long drives. Fatigue must be avoided. As a 
general rule we may recommend walking, shooting, tennis, 
hockey, golf, riding, etc., as useful and beneficial by promoting 
the activity of the skin and increasing metabolism. Excessive 
exercise is injurious to acne. The disease is frequently aggra- 
vated or a relapse induced by a long walk, prolonged riding, or 
other means of inducing great activity of the skin. Many patients 
who are martyrs to psoriasis while occupying a post which 
encourages sedentary habits or confinement to their ofiice or 
house are cured by getting a post which necessitates out-of-door 
exercise and plenty of fresh air. A person predisposed to psoriasis 
may get an attack of his disease if he leads a sedentary life, 
takes his meals irregularly, gets indigestion, has mental worry or 
anxiety, is overworked, or does not allow himself needful rest and 
recreation. Change of air, scenery, and company are proper for 
such people, whereby the digestive and nervous systems are 
corrected, and the causes of malassimilation, defective metabolism, 
or debility, are removed. Change of air is not good for lupus, 
as many relapses have been observed after such persons have 
gone into a fresh locality. A similar relapse is produced in acne 
by visiting the South of England, the vales of Devon or Derby- 
shire, and similar relaxing areas ; but change to high and dry 
places is usually beneficial. 



1. 



DEFECTS OF METABOLISM 565 

The Mineral Waters. — A course of sulphurous waters at Harro- 
gate, Moffat, and other places in Great Britain, or at Bareges, 
Aix-la-Chapelle, Enghein, Leuk, Luchon, and Kreuznach on the 
Continent, is very good, when combined with fresh air and 
scenery. It is far better to drink these waters at the spa, where 
they may be got perfectly fresh, than it is to drink them at home 
without the proper conditions for spa treatment. The chalybeate 
waters of Harrogate, Leamington, and other places, are very good 
for the debilitated ; the alkaline waters of Vichy, Bourboule, 
Royat, Saratoga-Vichy, and other places, for those of the uric 
acid diathesis ; that of Carlsbad for diabetes. Baths of these 
waters are very good, especially those of Leuk, Bareges, Luchon, 
and Kreuznach. In many cases the skin may be beneficially 
stimulated by Eussian vapour or Turkish hot-air baths, and in 
numerous instances the application of massage is a useful aid to 
other treatment. 

Electricity and electric baths are useful. The continuous 
current may be applied directly to diseased patches, or the inter- 
rupted current to the whole body by applying the poles to the 
hands, feet, or spine ; it is of undoubted tonic value, especially 
in neurotic cases. 

References: ^ Foster's ' Physiology.' - Halliburton's ' Physiology.' '^ Amer. 
Jour. Physiol., 1904, iv., 83. * Halliburton's 'Physiology.' ^ Walker Hall's 
*Purin Bodies in Foodstuffs.' " Burian and Schurr, Ffliiijcrs Archiv, 1900, 80. 
^ Rumff and Schlunim, Zcit. filr Biol, 1899, 39. **' Abstracts, Jour. Chem. 
Soc, 1898. " Stoklasa, £crl. d. deutsch. Chem. Ges., xxix., 2761. i" Mott and 
Chittenden, Proc. PA^A'io^. S'oc, 1896, 18. " Swalbe, A't-a^. Enci/dop. d. Ges. Heil- 
kunde, Bd. iv., 1894. i- Albu, Berl. Klin. IVoch., November 24, 1894. ^^ Ibid., 
April 13, 1891, Xaunyn. ^* McLeod, 'The Physical Requirements for the 
Public Services.' i" ' Indications for the Reduction of Obesity,' by Von Noorden. 
1*" Oertel on 'Obesity,' 'Nineteenth-Century Practice,' vol. ii. i'' Grocco, ii'iu. 
di Clin. Med., February 27, 1904. is < The Senile Heart,' Edin. Med. Jour., 
June, 1891. " Modern Medicine, July, 1902. -» Brit. Med. Journ., 1904, i., 
1297. ^1 Graham Steele, Medical Chronicle. -^ Burney Yeo, Brit. Med. Jour., 
June 15, 1901. ^a Klemperer, Deutsch. Med. Woch., October 3, 1895. "-^ Yeo's 
' Food in Health and Disease,' 443. ^5 Abstracts, Jour. Chem. Soc, 1896, 570. 
28 Parkes' ' Hygiene and Public Health.' ^'' Gowers, Brit. Med. Journ., January 16, 
1904. '■^^ Ibid., 1904, i , 477. ■» Med. Becord, June 24, 1905. ^o /^ztr. Physiol., 
December, 1894. »! Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., May, 1894. 32 JSfeurol. Ccntralb., 
March 1, 1895. ^s xhe Lancet, 1888, i., 252 ; ^^ Hayem, Jour, des Prat., 1895 
[17]. '^5 Miirner, Zeit. filr Physiol. Chem., xviii., 23. =^« Hall, Du Bois Ray- 
momVs Archiv, 1896, 49. ■''7 Jour. Physiol, 1895, 484. ^s £(,rl. Klin. Woch., 
1895, 9, 10. ^9 Jour. Physiol, 1895, 484. *» Jamieson, Brit. Med. Jour., 1895, 
ii., 1351. ■*! Macdonald, The Lancet, 1887, ii., 1350. *^ Ibid., 1888, i., 1224. 
'^ Milton's 'Diseases of the Skin.' ** Loc cit. ■'■' Jamieson, ibid. 



566 • FOOD AND HYGIENE 

CHAPTER XXIV 
DIABETES 

This disease occurs three times as frequently among males as 
females. In males it is more common from thirty to forty, but 
in females from ten to thirty years of age. Its cause is indefinite, 
its pathology obscure. The discovery that sugar appears in the 
urine of animals after the puncture of the floor of the fourth 
cerebral ventricle has thrown no light upon the subject. The 
disease consists of the passage of an enormous amount of urine, 
sometimes 20 pints a day, which contains glucose or grape-sugar 
varying in proportion from a mere trace up to 40 grains per 
ounce, but more commonly 8 or 10 grains. Ammonia is also 
present, sometimes in large amount. In spite of the ammonia, 
the urine has an acid reaction from the presence of /3-oxybutyric 
acid, and the latter is converted by oxidation into aceto-acetic 
or diacetic acid, which in turn breaks up into acetone and car- 
bonic acid. The presence of sugar is shown by examining the 
urine with Moore's, Trommer's, Fehling's, and other tests, or by 
fermentation with yeast ; and diacetic acid is detected by per- 
chloride of iron. 

Many views are held as to the cause of diabetes, but objections 
can be raised to each of them. A few points, however, are 
positively known. Carbohydrate and sugar are converted in the 
alimentary canal into dextrose, which enters the portal circula- 
tion, and is normally stored up as glycogen in the cells of the 
liver. It is released from the liver by the aid of an enzyme, as it 
is required to supply the wants of the body. If this were not 
so, the system would be flooded with sugar after each meal. 
There is normally a constant presence of about ^^ per cent, of 
sugar in the blood, but this is greatly increased in diabetes. The 
kidneys merely filter off the excess of sugar from the blood, but 
have no share in the causation of the disease. 

Diabetes or sugar in the urine may occur in one of the following 
ways : 

(1) If the power of the liver to convert the carbohydrate brought 
to it into glycogen, or to retain it, is defective, some or all of 



DIABETES 567 

the sugar from the food must pass over into the general circula- 
tion instead of being stored up, just as if the glycogenic function 
did not exist. 

(2) Glycogen is converted so rapidly by the enzymes of the 
liver into glucose that larger quantities pass over into the general 
circulation than the system can deal with, either because the liver 
transforms it too rapidly, or because the respiratory and muscular 
processes in which it is used are suspended or too enfeebled to 
use it up. 

The relation of the pancreas to diabetes is well known. Com- 
plete removal of this organ causes sugar to appear in the urine, 
but this does not happen if the removal is incomplete, a small 
portion of pancreas being left. In rapidly fatal cases of diabetes 
the pancreas has been frequently found to be diseased. It is 
supposed that, besides secreting a powerful digestive fluid, the 
pancreas has an internal secretion which operates upon the liver 
by increasing its power to form and retain glycogen, and checking 
the escape of sugar. 

The nervous system also has something to do with the process, 
for experimental puncture of the brain in the floor of the fourth 
ventricle causes diabetes. The central nervous system controls 
the bloodvessels of the liver, and governs the formation of 
ferments and other chemical processes. 

The most conspicuous and remarkable symptom of the ailment 
is the evacuation of an enormous quantity of pale urine which 
contains sugar. If the patient really passes more liquid than is 
contained in his food and drink, there must be a corresponding 
wasting of the body. A great thirst is caused by the drainage of 
so much water from the blood and tissues ; the blood becomes 
thick, the skin and muscles get dry and shrivel up, because their 
moisture is drained away. Insatiable hunger is as constant as 
unquenchable thirst, because a large part of the food consumed 
escapes from the body without nourishing it at all, and emaciation 
must take place. 

Diabetes insipidus is another form of disease in which very 
large quantities of urine are evacuated ; this, however, is not 
associated with disease of the liver or pancreas, but is probably 
of nervous origin. From 10 to 40 pints of urine are sometimes 
passed in twenty-four hours, which causes a great thirst ; whence 



568 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

it is called the drinking diabetes, to distinguish it from true 
diabetes, in which eating and drinking may both be excessive. 
The urine in this case does not contain sugar, or, at any rate, 
only a trace of inosite, which many authorities consider to be a 
normal constituent. 

The treatment is mainly by dietetic and hygienic rules, the 
first of which is that the patient should live chiefly upon animal 
food, and take very little starchy or saccharine material. That 
persons can live and their health be maintained upon a diet 
consisting solely of meat and water has been abundantly proved. 
Not only natives but Europeans in certain localities live on meat 
or fish for twenty or thirty years in full possession of bodily and 
mental vigour. i But the absolute prohibition of food containing 
starch and sugar in diabetes has been abandoned, experience 
having taught that, although the loss of such food might tem- 
porarily check diabetes, it would not cure it. It has also been 
found that very few patients can endure for years a diet consist- 
ing solely of meat, fish, eggs, crab, salad, and bran or gluten bread, 
which were the chief items formerly allowed. On the contrary, it 
relieves the patient to have a little bread or dry toast, and certainly 
does no material harm to elderly persons with confirmed diabetes. 
The treatment therefore resolves itself largely into what the 
patient may eat and drink, and what should be avoided. 

He may have any food from the following lists : 

Bread made of aleurone, soya, almond, bran, gluten,* dahlia 
tubers, dandelion root, or chicory ; powdered milk or casein and 
other starchless foods ; in certain cases a little ordinary stale 
bread, dry toast, Zwiebach, oat-cake, or cake made of potato. 

Cream, butter, cream cheese, new milk cheese, cheese ; oil, cod- 
liver oil, or other fats. 

Soup made of all kinds of meat, poultry, or game {except the 
liver) ; ox-tail, mutton, veal or chicken broth, mock or real turtle, 
snail or oyster soup ; essence of beef or other meat extract. 
Soup may be flavoured with mint, parsley, thyme, marjoram, 

* Krause of Carlsbad asserted that of nineteen specimens of gluten bread 
analyzed, only five contained less than 30 or 40 per cent, of carbohydrate, four 
between 40 and 50, two from 50 to 60, and four over 60 jier cent., against an 
average of 50 per cent, of carbohydrate in ordinary white bread. Collier says it 
is impossible to get the gluten free from starch by washing it — hence the difh- 
culty. Its source and careful manufacture ought to be scrutinized. Pavy long 
ago said that diabetic gluten bread should contain 75 per cent, of gluten. 



DIABETES 569 

savory, bay-leaf, basil, the green tops of celery, leek, onion, 
shallot, garlic, ketchup, cloves, allspice, pepper ; but must not be 
thickened with flour, oatmeal, maize, barley, rice, vermicelli, 
semolina, bean or pea flour, or any other farinaceous material. 

Fish. — Fresh and salt water fish may be eaten fresh, dried, 
smoked, or salted, without bread or vegetables. They may be 
eaten with butter, lemon juice, vinegar, pepper, salt, ketchup, 
anchovy, fennel, parsley, and other sauces which contain neither 
stogar nor starch. Lobster and crab (excepting the inside), oysters, 
mussels, snails, shrimps, prawns, and caviare are allowed. The 
light kinds of fish are most suitable for delicate persons, as 
sardines, pilchards, anchovies, white herring, bloater, sole, plaice, 
turbot, brill, flounder, whiting, haddock, cod ; but salmon, trout, 
white fish, halibut, mackerel, eel, conger-eel, and other heavy 
kinds, may be eaten by persons whose digestion is good. 

Eggs may be eaten in any form. Cheese is recommended 
especially Gorgonzola, Parmesan, and other rich kinds. 

Meat of all kinds is permitted except liver ; it may consist of 
fat and lean, boiled, baked, roasted, grilled, or minced, and dressed 
with spices ; poultry and game, both domestic and wild ; ham, 
bacon, tongue, heart, brain, sweetbread, marrow bones, tripe, 
brawn, kidneys, calf's head, sausage, and polony (if they do 
not contain bread or other farinaceous material) ; dried, salted, 
or smoked meat ; jelly made from meat. The following spices 
may be used : Salt, pepper, vinegar, mustard, horse-radish, 
cayenne, capers, parsley, fennel, dill, laurel, bay-leaf, garlic, 
mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, and caraway. 

G-reen vegetables and salads may be eaten freely, including 
cabbage, savoy, kale, red cabbage, turnip-tops, spinach, beet-tops, 
green peas, artichokes, vegetable marrow, pumpkins, cucumber, 
mushrooms ; lettuce picked from the stalk, endive, watercress, 
mustard-and-cress, sorrel, green onions, leeks, pickles, and enough 
onion or garlic to give a flavour to salad made with oil and 
vinegar. No sugar should be used, but saccharin is allowed if 
it is desired to sweeten the salad. When very strict dieting is not 
necessary we may add to the list : potatoes, especially new ones ; 
and, in moderation, cauliflower, broccoli, brussels-sprouts, seakale, 
asparagus, turnips, and French beans, if they are boiled in plenty 
of water. Asparagus contains an amount of material which is 



570 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

similar to sago, and should only be eaten in strict moderation. 
Artichokes only contain inulin and loBvulose in the spring, but 
starch is present later in the year. New or unripe potatoes 
contain a very much smaller proportion of starch than fully 
grown or ripe ones. All vegetables which are blanched like 
celery contain a certain amount of sugar. 

Fruit is allowed in moderate quantity : peaches, apricots, straw- 
berries, raspberries, gooseberries, currants, rhubarb, cranberries, 
and lemons. Cooked fruit should be sweetened with saxin or sac- 
charin, and may be eaten with cream. Invert-sugar or la^vulose 
is recommended to sweeten the food for diabetics ; 1^ ounces can 
be taken daily without causing increase in the excretion of sugar. 
The sugar in some kinds of fruit consists chiefly of laevulose. 
One litre of the juice of early cherries contains 83'6 grammes 
of Iffivulose, of ripe cherries 96"5, of early strawberries 45'1, ripe 
strawberries 100-0, of quince 75-9, of pears 85-8 ; 1 litre of apple 
juice contains 102-8 grammes of laevulose and 6-8 of saccharose ; 
peach juice 33"5 grammes of laevulose and 19'8 of saccharose.^ 

Olives may be eaten freely ; they are valuable for the oil and 
their aperient qualities. Nuts, such as walnuts, almonds, filberts, 
brazil, butternuts, and cocoanuts, may be eaten in almost any 
quantity. Chestnuts contain a large proportion of starch, and 
must be excluded from a strict dietary. 

Custard, cream, whipped cream, egg-snow, jelly, savoury jelly, 
isinglass, and other jellies, are permitted. No sugar or starchy 
material must be used in their preparation, but saxin or sac- 
charin may be used to sweeten them ; and laevulose or invert- 
sugar may also be used up to 12 drachms a day without increasing 
the amount of sugar excreted in the urine. 

Drink may consist of tea, coffee, any kind of cocoa free from 
starch and sugar, cocoa made from cocoa-nibs, lemonade or 
barley water sweetened with saxin or laevulose, whey or koumiss 
to a limited extent, soda, potash, Salutaris, ApoUinaris, or similar 
unsweetened water. The alkaline waters of Vichy, Vals, Con- 
trexeville, Eoyat, and other places, are valuable for this disease ; 
they may be flavoured with a little lemon juice or claret. Dry 
sherry, dry Sauterne, Hock, Chablis, claret, Burgundy, Moselle | 
or Ehine wine are permitted ; and a little old whisky, brandy, 
or dry gin well diluted with water or alkaline water. 



Ii 



DIABETES 571 

Forbidden. — It is in most cases forbidden that the patient 
should have sugar or starch in the form of bread, pastry, suet 
puddings, and farinaceous foods, such as oatmeal, barley, maize, 
rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, cornflour, macaroni, vermicelli, 
semolina, or revalenta — that is to say, all ordinary puddings, as 
vpell as pastry and bread, are forbidden. Jellies which contain 
sugar or fruit are also forbidden. Liver, oysters, mussels, cockles, 
and the interior of crabs and lobsters, are unsuitable because 
they contain glycogen : some of the shellfish have enormous 
livers. Sausages and polonies which contain bread are to be 
rejected. All sweet fruit contains dextrose and Isevulose. The 
former increases the sugar in the urine ; therefore nearly all fruits 
(except those allowed in the above list), whether fresh or pre- 
served, must be rejected — e.g., jam, marmalade, preserved ginger, 
guava jelly, chutney," grapes, figs, dates, oranges, melons, pears, 
cherries, mulberries, plums, and damsons. Chestnuts, pea-nuts, and 
ground-nuts contain starch. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, parsnips, 
beetroot, tomatoes, Spanish onions, green peas, kidney beans, 
broad beans, asparagus, artichokes, are all rich in starch or 
sugar. All blanched vegetables, such as cauliflower, broccoli, 
celery, endive, seakale, onions, and the white stalk of lettuce 
and cabbage, contain sugar, and are forbidden in most cases. 
Malt licLuors, as beer, stout, porter, lager beer, sweet wines, such 
as port, Madeira, Marsala, champagne, and liqueurs, all contain 
sugar, and are therefore forbidden. Lemonade and other aerated 
drinks are also sweetened with sugar or syrup. Starchy or 
sweetened cocoa, milk, except a small quantity for tea or similar 
drinks, and whey or koumiss, are all forbidden in very strict 
dieting. 

The feeding of a diabetic patient is not such a simple matter as 
it may appear. Lists of allowed and forbidden articles are given, 
and will be found to be extremely useful, but each case requires 
very careful consideration, and no possible list can be given which 
is applicable to all. Lorand of Carlsbad, who has devoted much 
attention to this subject, considers that it is quite as necessary 
not to overload the patient with nitrogenous material as it is to 
avoid giving too much carbohydrate ; that it is not necessary to 
entirely suspend the supply of starch and sugar ; that the per- 
sonal equation must be taken into account. We know that 



572 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

abstinence from starch and sugar will in most instances result 
in a reduction of the amount of sugar excreted and of the volume 
of urine, with a corresponding arrest of emaciation, and probably 
a gain of flesh or general improvement. Eigid exclusion of starch 
and sugar is not always necessary, ^ but to ascertain what foods 
may be allowed certain observations are recommended by Von 
Noorden^ and others. The patient is first tested with a known 
quantity of his ordinary food for three days, during which the 
output of sugar is carefully estimated. A comparison of the 
amount of carbohydrate consumed with the sugar excreted in 
the urine will show how much carbohydrate may be taken without 
any appearing as sugar in the urine. 

He is then tested with a purely animal diet for three days, and 
the excretion of sugar again calculated. Now, 100 grammes of 
proteid are capable of producing 40 grammes of sugar, whence 
we learn how much proteid can be taken without increasing 
the sugar. If more than 40 grammes of sugar are excreted for 
every 100 of proteid consumed, it must be derived from his body, 
and shows a very grave condition. When, however, no sugar 
appears in the urine with animal diet, we may experiment with 
20, 50, or 100 grammes of carbohydrate a day, stopping as soon 
as sugar appears. The amount of carbohydrate which can be 
taken without causing any sugar may be continued regularly. 

The excretion of urea must also be watched. An excess of 
proteid food throws much work on the eliminating organs, and 
might be as injurious as carbohydrate if its excretion were im- 
perfect. Attacks of indigestion or gastric crises must also be 
guarded against. Overfeeding is as bad as malnutrition. 

A weekly record of the patient's weight, output of sugar and 
urea, should be kept as a guide to the food which may be allowed. 
The diet should be sufficient to maintain a nitrogenous equili- 
brium, the urea excretion being neither more nor less than the 
consumption of proteid will explain, and sugar excretion must 
be kept down by a proper control of both carbohydrate and 
proteid food. There should be an endeavour to increase the 
weight, or at any rate prevent emaciation. If, in spite of a 
rigid diet, the excretion of sugar persists or goes beyond the 
amount which can be accounted for by the food, a very strict 
dietary is inadvisable, and some carbohydrate should certainly 



DIABETES 573 

be allowed. Strict dieting is also unnecessary in cases of confirmed 
diabetes, which is indicated by the presence of diacetic acid in 
the urine. The younger the patient, the more serious is the out- 
look ; on the other hand, elderly people with confirmed diabetes 
in a moderate degree may live for many years. "When the sugar 
which is excreted is derived from the food and the patient's weight 
remains constant, the condition is not very serious ; the patient 
may die from some other disease, and not as the direct result of 
diabetes. 

Certain technical considerations may be of use in constructing 
a diet chart. An individual expends from 35 to 45 calories per 
kilo of body-weight, and a man of average weight from 2,610 to 
3,625 calories per day. Therefore, if the weight remains constant 
but 100 grammes of sugar having a calorific value of 4 are being 
daily excreted in the urine, 400 calories are received too much or in 
excess of the requirements, and the consumption must be reduced. 
Now, it is established that 1 gramme of sugar yields 4 calories, 
starch 4, fat 9, albuminoid 4, and alcohol 7 ; and bearing these 
figures in mind while arranging the dietary, we may vary it much 
more than was formerly thought possible, according to the output 
of sugar and urea. 

Carbohydrate food, especially bread, cannot be allowed ad 
libitum, because of the starch in it : whole wheat-meal contains 
70 per cent, of starch, superfine white flour 75, and oatmeal 67 ; 
gluten bread always contains 25, and sometimes 35 to 40 per cent. 
Almond, soya, and other diabetic bread, cake or biscuits contain 
an indefinite quantity of starch, partly from the use of wheaten 
flour to assist in panification ; indeed, no diabetic bread which 
is palatable is safe to use when bread is a forbidden article. 

Toasted bread is sometimes allowed to the extent of 2 or 
3 ounces a day ; the starch in it is converted to dextrin by proper 
treatment, and is thereby more readily assimilated. Sachse gives 
the following directions for making toast : The bread should be 
thoroughly dried in an oven at a temperature of 400° F., which 
is the proper dextrinizing heat. Such toast is crisp to the centre 
and brown on the surface ; it has an agreeable toast flavour, is 
easily broken, quickly moistened by the saliva, and has the advan- 
tage of not being able to be swallowed without careful mastication. 
Unless bread is properly treated the toast is liable to be sodden, 



574 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

boggy, discoloured, rolls into pellets during mastication like new 
bread, and has no advantage over new bread in any degree. 

One of the greatest modifications in the dietetics of diabetes 
arises from the introduction of potato into the diet by Professor 
Mosse, who considers that the tuber contributes to the cure of 
the disease by the salts of potassium which are contained in it. 
This opinion is confirmed by other eminent observers. It was 
formerly common to allow bread even when potato was forbidden. 
But this was irrational, for ordinary bread contains 48 or 50 per 
cent, of starch, and gluten bread 25 to 35 per cent., while ripe 
potatoes only contain 16 to 24, with an average of 22-7 per cent., 
and neiv potatoes even a less proportion of starch than ripe ones. 
If we allow h pound of potato three times a day the patient will 
get 681 grammes, containing 150 grammes of starch ; but the 
same amount of bread would contain 330 grammes of starch. 
It is therefore more rational to begin with potatoes. They can 
be eaten alone or with meat, made into cake or bread, used to 
thicken soup or make a puree, and in various other ways. They 
are lighter when cooked in their skins than any other way, and 
then do not lose any of their salts. Sir J. Sawyer gives '' the 
following recipe for making cake or bread : Let the potatoes be 
steamed in their jackets twenty-four hours before using them ; 
break them into flour with the fingers. Take 1 pound of potato 
flour, 1 pound of bran, 1 ounce of German yeast, 1 ounce of 
butter, two eggs, and sufficient water ; let all the ingredients be 
mixed together and into a paste of proper consistency, set it 
before the fire for an hour to rise, and bake in a greased tin for 
one and a half hours. An improvement is made by mixing the 
ingredients with an infusion or decoction of bran instead of 
ordinary water. 

Oatmeal has been tried with success in the treatment of 
diabetes ; it contains 10 per cent, less starch than wheaten flour, 
but is rich in proteid, phosphates, and iron ; it can be made into 
oat-cakes, porridge, or soup, and eaten with cream or sweetened 
with laevulose. Von Noorden" says that oatmeal combined with 
a simple albuminous substance, such as casein and butter, in the 
proportion of oatmeal 5, albumin 2, and butter 6, will free the 
patient from diabetes ; and as the sugar in the urine diminishes, 
the ammonia and acetone will also disappear. Seigil agrees^ 



DIABETES 575 

with this ; and Mohr asserts that oatmeal is the best diet, not 
only for diabetes, but for all acid auto-intoxications. 

Eobin^ says that in this disease there is an increase of the 
chemical changes in the liver cells and of the nutrition in general, 
which results in increased activity of the nervous system. 
Because of the great loss of mineral salts thus induced, he 
recommends plenty of salt to be eaten with the food ; also green 
vegetables, particularly cabbage and endive, to supply potash 
salts ; a weak solution of cream of tartar to be drunk with wine 
at the meals ; and soups, on account of the inorganic salts in 
them. 

Milk is allowed to the extent of several pints a day by some 
authorities. Eoberts said it was less deleterious than might be 
supposed ; the patients gain weight under its use, but the excre- 
tion of sugar is increased to some extent. Von Noorden also 
allows milk in some cases, and finds the general nutrition in- 
creased by it. Donkin prescribed skimmed milk largely for his 
patients, beginning with 4 pints and increasing it to 12 daily ; it 
agrees well with some, but is badly borne by many patients. 
Other physicians (Germain See, Frierichs, Bouchardat, Dujardin- 
Beaumetz, etc.) exclude milk from the dietary entirely, on the 
ground that the sugar of milk (lactose) is injurious. Voit and 
others have investigated the matter closely, and proved that the 
lactose is consumed in the body ; but as it spares the consump- 
tion of sugar arising in these cases from proteid metabolism, a 
large portion of the latter is unburnt and readily passes into the 
urine.-' Milk would therefore be good for the patient if the 
lactose were removed, and Martindale formulated the following 
method of doing so: 1| pints of milk is mixed with 1^- pints of 
water, and curdled with 90 c.c. of a 30 per cent, solution of 
acetic acid ; the curd is allowed to settle, and is then removed 
and washed on a filter. It is then rubbed up in a mortar with 
some calcium carbonate, and water is added to again make 
1| pints ; the curd is thus dissolved. The hquid is allowed to 
stand for some time for the lime to settle out of it, and is then 
decanted and sweetened with 2 per cent, of glycerine. ^'^ There 
are, however, various preparations of casein on the market, and 
if one is used which does not contain sugar, it may be made a 
ready means of supplying milk albumin in a suitable form. 



576 FOOD AND HYGIENF^ 

The Yolk Cure. — The occurrence of acetone in the urine is a 
sign of under-nutrition and a signal to relax the rigidity of the 
diet ; indeed, acetonuria sometimes occurs as the result of a pro- 
longed meat diet or from the too close exclusion of carbohydrate. 
So long as nutrition is well maintained acetone does not appear 
in most cases ; but when it does occur, it may be followed liy 
coma. In this state of things it is usual to allow a little carbo- 
hydrate, some alcohol, and not so much meat or other albuminous 
food. Acetone appears in the urine as a result of the destruction 
of fat, which is taken in the food or derived from the body by 
emaciation. ^^ The chief substitutes for carbohydrate are butter, 
cream, and fat meat. Fat of a low molecular value, like butter 
and cream, yields fatty acids which are injurious. i- Stern says 
the only fatty article which may be taken in large amount with- 
out giving rise to fatty acids of low molecular value is the yolk 
of hen's egg, which never causes the production of acetone. He 
prescribes the yolk cure for acetonuria ; it consists in taking the 
yolk of ten to forty eggs a day with some proteid and green 
vegetables. The yolks may be taken raw or cooked in various 
ways for a long period, the ordinary diabetic diet being discon- 
tinued while this is in use. A large amount of fat in the food of 
diabetics is beneficial to them, but it increases acetonuria ; the 
latter, in fact, does not diminish until the quantity of fat, especially 
butter and cream, is reduced.^^ 

The Yeast Cure. — Cassaet^^ recommends a tablespoonful of 
brewer's yeast or 36 grains of dried yeast three times a day. 
The immediate effect of this remedy is the expulsion of much 
flatus, followed by foetid diarrhoea in two or three days. Toler- 
ance is. soon established, the sugar in the urine diminishes, weight 
increases, and the general condition improves. It is readily taken 
by some people, but others greatly object to it. Eoos and Huis- 
bergis have analyzed the dried yeast, and find it contains 3 per 
cent, of neutral fat, some free fatty acids, a little cholesterin, and 
a very small proportion of an essential oil. From their experi- 
ments they consider that the beneficial effect of yeast is due to 
the neutral fat, which is now obtainable in a separate form. 

Linseed tea has also been of service in some cases of diabetes. 
VogeP'5 prescribed it in 100 cases with excellent results, the 
ordinary dietetic rules being observed. A tablespoonful of linseed 



i 



DIABETES 577 

is boiled in about l^ pints of water foi- a long time and strained ; 
it should be taken during the day in four doses, each being taken 
before a meal. 

Alcohol in Diabetes. — All sweet wines, port, champagne, 
Sauterne, beer, and other malt liquors are to be strictly avoided ; 
also strong alcoholic liqueurs. All light wines which are free 
from sugar may be allowed : still Moselle, Hock, claret, or good 
Burgundy, with or without soda-water; also unsweetened spirits — 
brandy, whisky, gin — if well diluted. The average daily con- 
sumption of alcohol should be limited to 3 or 4 ounces of 
brandy or whisky, or half a bottle of Moselle or Burgundy. In 
moderate quantity it has no ill-effect as regards the diabetes ; it 
is a foodstuff of moderate caloric value, and sometimes improves 
the general condition. The state of the heart, vessels, and 
kidneys must be borne in mind, and alcohol must be allowed 
with great caution where these are diseased. 

Gouty Diabetes. — In certain persons a condition of suppressed 
or undeveloped gout occurs along with the symptoms of diabetes. 
They are usually people of large frame, perhaps fat and flabby, 
with little stability or power. They are frequently energetic 
persons, but are readily exhausted. They have a large appetite, 
are pale, and suffer from coldness of the extremities. They are 
drowsy by day, but sleep badly at night ; have attacks of giddi- 
ness and a feeble action of the heart. Their urine varies in 
colour and specific gravity ; but it contains sugar, and usually 
some albumin or uric acid. These people cannot be strictly 
dieted either for gout or diabetes ; if they are strictly dieted 
they go from bad to worse. They should be carefully but liberally 
fed with meat, game, poultry, or fish, together with ordinary 
bread and vegetables, i*" They may have a little well-matured 
wine or dry champagne, but its effect must be carefully watched. 
The sugar and albumin will disappear under proper treatment, 
the urine become normal, the heart gain in strength, and the 
general nutrition and health be improved. 

The alkalies and alkaline waters hold a deservedly high place 
in the treatment of diabetes. Their administration causes a 
general improvement in the condition of the patient, with a 
disappearance of acetone and sugar from the urine. They are 
especially recommended to be used when a patient is being 

37 



578 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

transferred from ordinary diet to one which is poor in carbo- 
hydrate, or when he is taking a rigidly diabetic diet.^^ The only 
contraindication to their use is very rapid emaciation of the body, 
when they may possibly be prejudicial. The bicarbonates of 
sodium and potassium have a very beneficial effect, and the 
alkaline waters of Vichy, Carlsbad, and Neuenahr or other places 
have been drunk with great success. A course of waters at these 
springs extending over several weeks results in an abatement of 
thirst, a decrease in the amount of urine passed, frequently a 
total disappearance of acetone and sugar, and a corresponding 
tolerance of carbohydrate food and a gain in weight. All alkaline 
waters are beneficial, whether drunk at their source or in the 
patient's home. They reduce the output of sugar by checking 
the transformation of glycogen into this material ; and even when 
the disease is of pancreatic origin they keep down excessive sugar 
formation and prevent the harmful effects consequent upon it. 

As in all other cases of invalidism, the patient must be warmly 
clad to prevent chill, especially as there is a predisposition to 
pneumonia. He must have rest of mind and body, being 
occupied merely with a light task to prevent ennui. He must 
live in healthy rooms in a suitable locality, and take moderate 
exercise daily in the open air. 

References : ^ The Lancet, 1890, i. 17. - Truchou and M. Claude, Jour. 
Fhartii. Chim., 1901, xiii., 171. ^ The Medical Age, 1903, 696. * 'Twentieth- 
Century Practice,' 1905, vol. ii., 76. ' Brit. Med. Jour., 1904, i., 537. ^ Bidl. 
Gen. de Therapie, 146, 794 (ex. Berl. Klin. IVocli.). ^ Brit. Med. Jour., Epitome, 
February 6, 1904. » Bull, de I' Acad, de Med., 1895 (23). « Zeit. filr Diatet. 
and Fhysik. Therap., xviii., 353. !•* Brit. Med. Jour., 1895, ii., 142. 
11 Strauss, Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1904, Nov. 3, 10, 17. i- Amer. Med., Decem- 
ber, 3, 1904. 1'^ Zeit. filr Diatet. und. Fhysik. Therap., Snne, 1904. ^^ Semaine 
Med., August 21, 95. i^ jfunch. Med. Woch., 1903, 28, 29. i" Zeit. des Oestr. 
Apoth. ver., xxxv., 180. i'' The Lancet, 1887, ii., 784. !» Brit. Med. Jour., 
1904, ii., 733. 



CHAPTEB XXV 
BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

Sufferers from Bright's disease are frequently individuals in 
middle age — at that period of life when a man's best work and 
most valuable results are produced. The importance of its early 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 579 

recognition is therefore evident, and its proper iiygienic and 
dietetic management is paramount. Dr. Bright was the first 
who recognised disease of the kidneys as being associated witli 
general dropsy and albuminous urine. He found in death from 
this ailment that the kidneys were either large, pale, and smooth, 
or they were small, dark, and granular, which he regarded as 
two stages of the same disease. Later researches, however, 
showed that there are two difi'erent forms of it. In the first the 
inflammatory process affected the tubules, whence it is called 
chronic tubular nephritis ; in the other form the intertubular 
tissue is primarily affected, whence it is called chronic inter- 
tubular nephritis. Some symptoms occur more or less in both 
forms — e.g., albumin and casts in the urine, changes in the heart 
and bloodvessels, sometimes an excess of urea in the blood, blood in 
the urine, hsemorrhage, changes in the eyes, and secondary diseases. 

In an acute attack of Bright's disease the tissues of the kidneys 
are affected in various degrees. One of its most prolific causes 
is exposure to cold ; but scarlet fever, diphtheria, and other 
febrile diseases, pregnancy, and various drugs or chemical agents, 
will cause it. However it is induced, the chief symptoms are 
diminution in the amount of urine ; a sediment, albumin, and 
tube casts in the urine ; pain in the back, headache, fever, and 
other signs of being acutely ill. Dropsy soon appears. First 
the face swells, then the feet and ankles, and it speedily becomes 
general. Sometimes dropsy is the first symptom which is noticed, 
and an examination of the urine reveals the others. 

The treatment of this acute form is very important, because 
when it is neglected it degenerates into one of the chronic 
varieties. In the normal condition of the body the skin assists 
the kidneys to excrete the waste nitrogenous materials. Our 
first duty, therefore, is to urge the skin to temporarily take some 
of the work off the kidneys, to increase the share in the partner- 
ship. We can do this by inducing free perspiration, which would 
rid the system of the accumulating debris, and relieve the con- 
gestion of the kidneys by drawing the blood to other parts of the 
body. Various methods of doing this are adopted — e.g. .• (1) Let 
the patient be given a hot bath at about 100° F. for thirty to 
sixty minutes, during which time the temperature of the water is 
kept up by removing some of the cool and adding more hot water. 

37—2 



580 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

When the patient is taken out he must be quickly dried, clothed 
in a flannel gown, put to bed, wrapped in the blankets, and other 
clothing thrown over him to encourage the perspiration. (2) A 
wet pack is useful for the same purpose. The body is wholly 
wrapped, excepting the head and face, in a double blanket wrung 
out of nearly boiling water, to which 2 or 3 ounces of mustard 
(made into a paste) iiave been added. He is covered with more 
blankets for about two hours, after which he is quickly rubbed 
dry with warm towels, and put to bed again in warm, dry 
blankets. (3) A Turkish or Russian bath may be used for the 
same purpose if it can be done at home. Yeo^ gives the following 
directions for a simple hot-air bath : With the patient in bed, 
place a spirit-lamp on a box or chair at the foot of the bed, and 
fix over it a funnel, to which is attached a tube bent at right 
angles and of sufficient length to pass under the bedclothes. The 
heat given off by the lamp and the steam caused by the com- 
bustion of the spirit is usually enough to throw the patient into 
a profuse perspiration. The clothes should be tucked in around 
the patient's neck to keep in the heat. A simple vapour bath can 
be given as follows : Make two bricks hot in a fire ; have ready 
a cane bottom chair with a piece of flannel upon the seat. Place 
a bucket of boiling water under the seat. The patient, being un- 
dressed, sits down ; one of the hot bricks is put in the water, and 
a blanket or two is used to envelop the chair and the patient. 
After ten minutes the brick is removed from the water and 
another hot one put in it. A profuse perspiration can be kept up 
in this manner for twenty minutes ; then dry the patient quickly 
with warm towels, place him in bed between dry blankets, and cover 
him with clothing to encourage the continuance of perspiration. 

Various local measures may also be used to assist in relieving 
the congestion of the kidneys. Hot mustard poultices applied 
to the loins and changed frequently are very efficacious counter- 
irritants. A thick layer of cotton-wool over the same region 
makes a dry poultice which soon becomes hot, because it is a bad 
conductor of heat from the body, and is a far better apphcation 
than poultices. 

Purgation assists to relieve the congestion of the kidneys, and 
removes from the system some of the nitrogenous waste and 
poisonous materials. The result of neglecting treatment at this 



/*! 



BRIGHT'S DISEASE 581 

stage would be an accumulation of the waste products in the 
body, which might induce uraemia and convulsions, with possibly 
a fatal termination. 

The Diet. — We must be careful not to add any more to the 
accumulated waste products by means of food. We must there- 
fore enjoin rest in bed to reduce the work of the machinery to its 
lowest point, and exclude from the food such materials as will 
introduce nitrogenous waste. The food should therefore consist 
of milk, buttermilk, whey, bai'ley-water, oatmeal-water, thin 
arrowroot or oatmeal gruel, apple-water, black-currant water, 
lemonade, or imperial drink. All food should be taken warm. 
The free use of liquids is necessary to supply the water required 
to encourage perspiration on the one hand, and to wash out the 
debris from the tubules of the kidneys by flushing them. Milk 
may be taken to the extent of 3 or 4 pints a day. It supplies the 
albumin lost by the kidneys and the requirements of the body, 
and, like oatmeal and barley, it is soothing to the kidneys and 
diuretic. Milk should not be drunk in bulk, but in frequent 
sips ; each tumblerful may have added to it a little bicarbonate of 
potash or soda, or an alkaline water, by which heaviness and 
vomiting may be prevented. 

Whey can be made by boiling a pint of milk with the juice of 
one lemon or an ounce of tamarind ; strain it. Imperial drink 
is made by pouring a quart of boiling water over two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar with the juice and pulp of a lemon ; strain and 
sweeten it. 

Apple-water is made thus : Wash four firm apples, cut them in 
slices without removing the peel ; put them into a saucepan with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three or four cloves, and 2 pints of 
water ; boil ten minutes ; strain when cool. 

Barley-water is made thus : Boil 2 ounces of pearl l^arley in a 
pint of water for five minutes ; pour away the liquid and wash the 
barley ; then put the barley in a quart of boiling water with the 
rind of a lemon cut in slices ; let it simmer for two hours, add the 
juice of the lemon, sweeten it, and strain when cold. 

Oatmeal-water is made in a similar manner with coarse oatmeal. 

Vomiting is sometimes very troublesome, but may usually be 
relieved by a mustard plaster put over the pit of the stomach, 
small pieces of ice to suck, or lime-water and milk to drink. The 



582 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

patient, however, may be nourished, if necessary, until the sickness 
ceases by enemata of peptonized milk and egg, and injections of 
20 or 30 ounces of water into the bowels several times a day. 

After a few days we may add farinaceous foods, biscuit, bread, 
milk pudding, and a little stimulant, such as tea, coffee, or cocoa, 
but no alcohol. With progressive convalescence the urine must 
be watched, for no meat can be permitted until it is free from 
albumin. As the symptoms subside we may allow a little mutton 
or chicken broth ; then steamed sole, plaice, brill, turbot, whiting, 
or haddock ; and when the albumin has quite disappeared, a little 
chicken, a poached or boiled egg, or beef-tea ; and beef or mutton 
may be eaten in two or three weeks from the commencement. 
Fish may be accompanied by a little mashed potato, squash, 
vegetable marrow, or spinach, and followed by stewed fruit ; and 
when we arrive at meat we may add kidney beans, cauliflower, 
cabbage, lettuce, watercress, and fresh ripe fruit. 

The patient should be clothed when he gets up in woollen 
under-garments of thickness proportionate to the season, and 
must carefully avoid exposure to cold and damp. 

Chronic Blight's Disease. — The causes of subacute or chronic 
Bright's disease are more or less obscure, except when it follows 
an acute attack. The disease often comes on so insidiously that 
it would be difficult to fix the exact date of its commencement. 
Among its causes we may mention frequent exposure to wet and 
cold, especially a combination of the two, which lowers the 
vitality, checks the functions of the skin, and throws back upon 
the kidneys the waste materials which it ought to eliminate, by 
which means the kidneys are irritated and subjected to a long 
course of chronic inflammation. Sometimes it follows the acute 
disease, especially that form which is the result of scarlet fever 
or diphtheria. More often, however, the chronic disease is the 
result of long-continued irritation of the kidneys. This is due to 
the constant presence in the blood of a small portion of some 
irritating material or poisonous substance — not enough to produce 
poisonous symptoms — which causes a change in the structure of 
the kidneys. The poison of gout is one of these substances. Its 
presence is most easily ascertained, and it is one which may 
continue to act with a slight intensity over a very long period. 
Uric acid is believed to be that substance, and its presence in the 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 583 

blood will irritate the kidneys. There is a remarkable fact in 
connection with this — viz., that when the joints are affected by 
gout the kidneys are usually more or less free, so that a man who 
has much gout in his joints may be thankful that his kidneys 
will probably be spared. Other blood poisons which affect the 
kidneys are malaria, tuberculosis, lead, alcohol, and those which 
are the result of free and irregular living, of pleasure rather than 
labour. The long-continued irritation of the kidneys by alcohol 
or its oxidation products in the blood is an example of how a 
small portion of poison, which acts with slight intensity over a 
prolonged period, may produce Bright's disease. Free indulgence 
in this stimulant is very likely to cause it. That disturbances of 
the metabolic processes of the body over a period of time are 
likely to cause Bright's disease is a theory which receives the 
support of many pathologists. The function of the kidneys is 
the elimination of the utilized and unutilized proteids from the 
body. Utilized proteid is that portion of nitrogenous food 
which has been assimilated and become for the time being a 
part and parcel of the body. Unutilized proteid is that which is 
absorbed from the alimentary canal in excess of the requirements 
of the body, and any proteid which is absorbed in a form un- 
suitable for organization, as the purin bodies. Porter gives three 
causes of Bright's disease associated with the food : [a) Deficient 
oxidation of nitrogenous material due to an insufficient supply of 
oxygen, or taking in more than the body can negotiate. The 
tension in the bloodvessels is raised by the presence of purin 
bodies in excess, and these substances irritate the coats of the 
vessels, whereby such changes are produced as may be a fore- 
runner of kidney trouble. {b) The production of abnormal 
substances in the alimentary canal, (c) The presence of micro- 
organisms. With regard to the first, as Porter says,- so long as 
the work of the kidneys is not too great, and the supply of nutri- 
ment is of the right kind, quality, and quantity, the kidneys will 
maintain their integrity. But if the supply of oxygen is in- 
sufficient, or the system is unable to completely oxidize the 
amount of proteid ingested, a portion of it will be excreted as 
albumin by the excretory cells of the kidneys, and there will 
consequently be a reduction in the output of urea and an increase 
of uric acid. X careful study of the urine as regards the output 



584 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of urea, uric acid, and albumin is necessary to show whether the 
kidneys are perfect or imperfect. If the albumin in the urine is 
only a transitory matter there may be no disease of the kidneys, 
but it indicates that such disease will soon occur if the abnormal 
condition which induced it is not corrected. With regard to the 
second, putrefactive changes occurring in the alimentary canal 
result in the formation of toxic materials which have to be 
eliminated — c.cj., indican is formed by proteid fermentation and 
appears in the urine. Micro-organisms introduced into the body 
with the food or otherwise produce toxic materials which the 
kidneys have to get out of the system, and by which the kidneys 
are irritated. Excessive work is thrown upon them, and the 
general nutrition is disturbed and a lowered tone of the body is 
induced. It is therefore to be inferred that Bright's disease may 
result from long-continued errors in the dietary, insufficient supply 
of oxygen owing to bad ventilation of the rooms, sedentary 
occupations, insufficient exercise in the open air, and unhygienic 
surroundings, which probably explain some of those instances of 
Bright's disease which cannot be traced to definite causes, in 
which we can only be sure that the patient must have been 
subjected for a long period to some influence of a deleterious 
nature. So insidious and prolonged is occasionally the course of 
the disease that the most serious permanent changes may have 
taken place in the structure of the kidneys before any prominent 
symptoms occur to call attention to them. Mental and emotional 
causes, prolonged anxiety, worry, business or family cares, and 
soQietimes the trials and difficulties of religious life, are sufficient 
to produce through the nervous system such disturbances of 
assimilation or elimination and vast changes in the kidneys. 

The large white kidney is due to chronic inflammation of the 
tubules of the kidney, and chiefly affects people from thirty-five 
to fifty years of age. The small dark or granular contracted 
kidney is due to chronic inflammation inducing an increase of 
the intertubular tissue, which contracts and causes a degenera- 
tion or destruction of the tubules. The disease may begin in 
middle life, but is most often met with from fifty to sixty-five 
years of age or later. 

A person with a large white kidney suffers a good deal of pain 
in the loins, and passes less water than usual. Sometimes 'bags' 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 585 

appear under the lower eyelids, or the eyelids are swollen 
as the first sign of dropsy, which increases until it becomes 
general. Languor and debility increase ; anaemia becomes ap- 
parent by the pallor of the skin, shortness of breath, and palpita- 
tion ; albumin and casts appear in the urine. The tension in the 
bloodvessels is increased ; they become thickened and lose their 
elasticity, and are elongated and tortuous. These changes involve 
more work upon the heart, in consequence of which it becomes 
enlarged and its valves sometimes diseased. 

The form of Bright's disease with small contracted kidneys is 
rarely met with until after middle life. The disease is very in- 
sidious, and the sufferer seldom seeks medical advice until some 
complication compels attention to it. He gets thin, weak, and 
anasmic without apparent cause ; suffers from dyspepsia, loses 
his appetite and vivacity, has nausea or occa,sional attacks of 
vomiting, and his eyesight becomes impaired. An inquiry elicits 
the fact that he is passing more than his customary quantity of 
water, which, on examination, is found to contain less urea than 
normal, with perhaps a scanty deposit, a few hyaline casts, or a 
little albumin — less than 0-5 per cent. There may be puffiness of 
the eyelids or ankles, but as a rule very little dropsy. The blood- 
vessels are thickened, tortuous, and distinctly visible in exposed 
places. The heart is enlarged ; and there is a tendency to 
nervous disorders, bronchitis, pneumonia, and hasmorrhages. 

The significance of albumin in the urine of a middle-aged 
person is so important that it ought not to be overlooked. It is 
a constant sign of Bright's disease of the large white variety, in 
which it forms from 2 to 3 per cent, of the urine, and the daily 
loss equals 100 to 400 grains. It may be present in the urine in 
other diseases of the kidneys and urinary organs, in disease of 
the heart and lungs, or in other chronic disorders, and tem- 
porarily as a result of indigestion. Of more decisive importance 
are the casts in the urine. Hyaline is the basis of all casts from 
the kidney ; it consists of a coagulable proteid material which has 
transuded through the tubular structure, and indicates a patho- 
logical lesion of the same. Casts may consist of hyaline alone, 
or combined with granular materials or cells shed by the tubules. 
Small hyaline casts, which are few in number, and occur in the 
urine without albumin in a person of forty-five or more years of 



586 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

age, need not be considered of very speeial importance. But if 
they have a granular appearance or epithelial cells upon them, 
they are considered to be a certain sign of kidney disease. Large 
hyaline casts in the urine of men of strenuous business habits 
may be a sign of the granular contracted or intertubular form 
of Bright's disease, and if they are constantly present, with a 
trace of albumin and a diminution of the urea output, our sus- 
picion should be excited almost to the point of certainty. 

The Dietetic and Hygienic Management. — We have in Bright's 
disease a malady w^hich, if neglected, can only have a fatal 
termination ; on the other hand, by careful attention to the mode 
of life, to the diet, and relief from v^orry and anxiety, much can 
be done to ameliorate the symptoms, and in most cases to put 
off the evil day to a more or less indefinite period. Disorganized 
tubules can never be replaced, nor excessive intertubular tissue 
removed or new renal tissue formed ; but the urine may be free 
from albumin and casts for years, and the disease be practically 
cured. There may be exacerbations and remissions. So long as 
dietetic rules are followed the remission will last and the patient 
be considered cured ; but a relapse into former habits, a recur- 
rence of the cause, or a fresh cause, may bring about an exacerba- 
tion. In many instances there must be a complete revolution in 
the mode of life, the diet, clothing, hours, and general conduct. 
In every case where such exist habits of intemperance must be 
given up, irregularities remedied, late hours abolished, exposure 
to all kinds of bad weather abandoned ; in a word, life must be 
conducted in a mild and regular manner, as free as possible from 
turmoil, worry, and excitement. 

The Dietary. — (a) Sometimes a purin-free diet is essential, when 
it may consist of 4 or 5 pints of milk daily ; this may be taken 
alone, or in coxnbination with tea, coffee, cocoa ; in milk puddings 
of sago, rice, tapioca, semolina, vermicelli, or macaroni ; with 
oatmeal, maize-meal, biscuit powder, and in the form of blancmange, 
milk jelly, and soup. Cream, cream cheese, new milk cheese, and 
cheese may be eaten. The patient should have plenty of fat in 
the form of butter, cream, salad oil, fat ham, bacon, or other 
easily digested fat. A little bread, biscuit, or dry toast may be 
eaten ; also jellies of all kinds, calf 's-foot or fruit jelly ; potatoes, 
cooked vegetables, fresh salads, and fruit. If the milk is ' heavy 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 587 

upon the stomach ' or otherwise disagrees, it may be diluted with 
one-third of water and have a quarter of a teaspoonful of common 
salt in each tumblerful to aid its digestion. Milk soup may be 
made by boiling in it various flavouring agents, such as celery, 
mint, savory, parsley, or by the addition of a vegetable puree. 

(b) When meat is not excluded from the dietary we may allow 
3 or 4 ounces a day of butcher's meat or fish (sole, whiting, plaice, 
brill, turbot, haddock, or cod ; occasionally a little salmon, trout, 
mackerel, halibut, or skate) ; the white flesh of chicken, pheasant, 
or game. The patient may not have liver, spleen (milt), kidneys, 
brain, or sweetbread, because they contain an excess of nucleo- 
albumin and purin bases which would irritate the kidneys ; and 
beef-tea, strong soups and broths, or extracts of meat, contain a 
large amount of nitrogenous materials, some of which are purin 
bodies, in such a form that they are quickly carried to the kidneys 
and intensify the irritation. 

Great difference of opinion is expressed by modern writers on 
the dietary for Bright's disease, although all are agreed that 
there is no disease in which the manner of life and the kind of 
food so largely influence its course. It was formerly usual to 
forbid meat and eggs in the large white or tubular form of the 
disease, but to allow them in moderation in the intertubular or 
contracted kidney ; there was an almost general agreement that 
meat is harmful and milk beneficial. Eecent authorities, how- 
ever, lay little stress upon the importance of excluding meat. 
The observations of Voit and Pettenkofer^ tend to show that 
nitrogenous food does not cause albuminuria in ordinary cases, 
and that its accidental occurrence is rather due to a personal 
factor. Osier says, under the chronic tubular form, ' Mi|k and 
buttermilk should be the chief food ;' and under the interstitial 
or contracted form, ' The diet should be light and nourishing, and 
the patient warned not to eat excessively, and only to take meat 
once a day.' Delafield says : ' As regards diet, the sugars and 
starches should be restricted, the ingestion of fat encouraged, 
the use of wine, spirits, and tobacco discontinued.' Some writers 
allow fish and white meat, but forbid red meat and game, or 
dark-fleshed fare. Klemperer prefers fish to meat ; Bouchard 
forbids fish on the ground that it contains toxins and increases 
the toxicity of the blood and urine ; Pel says we should distin- 



588 . FOOD AND HYGIENE ¥ 

guish between the kinds of fish, but says there is no reason to 
exclude light and easily digested kinds.* 

Eed or dark meat is considered more harmful than the white 
flesh of chicken, pheasant, turkey, or rabbits. Game generally 
has been condemned ; but nobody has explained why the dark 
flesh of hare, venison, partridge, quails, or other wild birds is 
more harmful than that of chicken to the kidneys, except that 
they belong to dark-fleshed fare. Von Noorden says the distinc- 
tion between light and dark flesh so far as they affect the kidneys 
is a myth ; for the amount of extractives in red and white meat 
are about the same, the excess being in the white, but the 
difference is so trifling as to be of little consequence. 

Brain, sweetbread, milt (spleen), kidneys, and liver, are all 
condemned, because of the large amount of nucleo-albumin and 
extractives they contain ; and the flesh of all young animals is 
rich in nucleo-albumin. Nucleo-albumins are compounds of proteid | 
and nuclein ; nuclein is the chief constituent of cell nuclei, and 
when decomposed yields the alloxuric or purin bodies which are 
chemically aUied to urea, and are deleterious. Von Noorden and 
others have shown that normally the kidneys transform the purin 
bases into uric acid for elimination, and we also know that uric 
acid is a product of imperfect oxidation of proteid substances in 
the body. For this reason most authors forbid substances con- 
taining nucleo-albumin. They are contained not only in brain, 
sweetbread, spleen, kidney, and liver, but in the muscle cells of 
all young animals, such as veal, chicken, pheasants, and rabbit, 
which are almost equally injurious to the kidneys.'' From this 
circumstance Von Noorden concludes that white flesh is no more 
suitable than red or dark flesh ; that if one is to be allowed the 
other may be, or both must be excluded. There is, however, 
always the question of digestibility to be considered, and on this 
point the ballot is decidedly in favour of fish, chicken, pheasant, -, 
rabbit, and boiled mutton, as against veal, pork, beef, hare, % 
venison, partridge, and dark game generally. 

Eggs are excluded from the diet by some writers and permitted » 
by others. Senator found that a lasting albuminuria was caused I 
in animals by the injection of egg-albumin into their veins ; and 
several other observers state that albuminuria is caused in men 
by eating largely of raw eggs, for which reason they have been 



i 



BETGHT'S DISEASE 589 

excluded from the dietary of Bright's disease. But Brunton and 
Macguire failed to produce albuminuria in people by giving them 
large quantities of raw eggs and egg-albumin. When we add to 
this fact the consideration that eggs contain casein and vitellin, 
which are pseudo-nucleins, differing from true nucleins in not 
yielding purin bodies, as well as iron, organized phosphates, and 
phosphates, which are so valuable for persons with Bright's 
disease, it may be concluded that they may be allowed with much 
greater safety than any kind of meat, bird, or fish. Oertel, 
Brunton, and others allow them ; and even Senator permits 
them, saying that his experience did not bear out his former 
observations. It appears, therefore, that the clear indication is to 
give easily digested proteid foods, such as are the least liable to 
increase the nitrogenous waste, and would not add to the amount 
of purin bodies or tax the kidneys to excrete them. 

Exclusive milk diet is a successful method of treatment. The 
advantages are that it contains no refuse, contains very little 
nucleo-albumin, and is practically free from purin bodies. It is 
very easily digested, its lactose is diuretic, its components are not 
irritating to the kidneys, it does not introduce toxic materials 
into the system, but tends to eliminate those already found in 
the body. Skimmed milk is preferred by some authorities ; both 
it and buttermilk may be taken to vary the monotony. It is 
feared that an absolute milk diet is more often prescribed than 
followed. Nevertheless, milk should be taken as freely as possible 
by all the patients, thinning it when it seems desirable by the 
addition of one-third of water and 20 grains of salt to each pint. 
Some milk may be used in the form of soup, junket, milk jelly, 
custard, cream cheese, new-milk cheese, tea, coffee, and cocoa. 
But an exclusive milk diet is not well borne by many people. 
Its disadvantages are too much water, too much albumin, too 
much phosphoric acid, and too little iron for the needs of the 
economy (Pel)."^ Its continual use may be followed by an in- 
crease of adipose tissue, which is most undesirable in Bright's 
disease. A decrease in the haemoglobin, which is so important 
a constituent of the red blood cells, may also result, especially 
when the patient has a tendency to obesity or anaemia. Three 
litres (5^ pints) of milk contain 115 grammes of proteid, 160 of 
carbohydrate, and 110 of fat, and will yield 2,183 calories or 



590 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

unit8 of heat, which requires to be supplemented by 50 grammes 
of carbohydrate to obtain the total amount of calories required 
daily by an average man. Now, 115 grammes of proteid will 
yield 38 grammes of urea, which is more than the average excre- 
tion of urea by a man doing ordinary work, and we have been 
cautioned against an excessive consumption of proteid in these 
cases. The amount of phosphoric acid in that quantity of milk 
varies from 3 to 4 grammes, and, according to Vaughan and 
others, such an amount is harmful to the kidneys. Von Noorden 
suggests the elimination of the phosphoric acid by adding lime- 
. water to the milk, which converts it into an insoluble phosphate 
which passes through the bowels." Deficiency of iron can be 
made up by medicine. Even then the amount of water is harm- 
ful, especially to persons with contracted kidneys, in whom the 
drinking of so much milk does direct injury by increasing blood- 
pressure, watering the blood, and throwing extra work upon the 
heart ; and the excess of liquid acts as an unnecessary and un- 
desirable irritant to the kidneys. For these reasons the consump- 
tion of milk should be limited to 2i pints, or not more than 1^ litres, 
a day in the contracted kidneys, and in other cases where the 
amount of urine secreted is small, because an excess of any kind 
of liquid may increase the dropsy by its accumulation in the 
subcutaneous tissues ; excess of fluid increases blood-pressure, 
tends to apoplexy and various forms of haemorrhage, and acts 
harmfully in heart dropsy. 

A vegetarian diet has given rise to the same amount of dis- 
cussion. Pel cautions us against those kinds which contain 
benzoic acid, as plums and green vegetables ; but the majority 
of practitioners consider that the small amount which is con- 
tained in the few plums or green vegetables which are eaten may 
be disregarded. Asparagus, peas and beans, and some other 
vegetables, have been rejected because they contain nucleo-albu- 
mins or purin bodies. Porter*^ objects to the consumption of 
much carbohydrate because of the possibility of fermentative 
processes in the bowels ; and says : ' Let the food consist of 
animal and vegetable, with a preference for animal, and the 
mixed diet will be an ideal one.' Vaughan^ believes the disease 
is due to a toxicity of the blood-serum exerting a specific action 
on the excretory cells of the kidneys, which theory, he says, is 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 591 

supported by clinical and experimental evidence. His main treat- 
ment is by means of diet, and his object is to profoundly alter 
the proteids circulating in the blood. He forbids all animal food 
in the form of meat, fish, game, poultry, milk, and eggs, and only 
allows cream and butter. The latter may be combined with 
cereals, such as maize, oatmeal, cracked wheat. Potatoes, peas, 
beans, green vegetables, and fruit form part of the diet ; also 
sugar and Zwiebach — -a kind of ' pulled bread ' — that is to say, he 
resorts to vegetarianism. He gives the following!'^ as a sample 
dietary to provide the necessary calories or units of heat and 
energy : 











Proteid. 


Carbohydrate. 


Fat. 


500 gr 


arames (or 1 pint) 


of cream 


= 


5 


27-60 


150 grammes. 


200 


,, cornmeal 




= 


20 


130-60 


8 ,, 


100 


, , Zwiebach 




z= 


14 


60-00 


24 ,, 


50 


, , butter 




= 


— 


— 


40 ,, 


20 


, , sugar 




= 


— 


20-00 


— 



39 238-20 222 

He takes no account of the fruit and green vegetables which are 
eaten. Beckoning the caloric value of 1 gramme of fat = 9, and 
carbohydrate and proteid each 4-1, these (39 + 238-20) x 4-1 = 
1136-5, and 222 x 9 = 1998 ; total, 3134-5 calories or units of heat. 
This diet therefore allows plenty for heat and energy if it can 
be assimilated, and the proteid can be increased by substituting 
peas, beans, or oatmeal for a portion of the maize. After a few 
weeks, he says, his patients lose their desire for meat and eggs, 
and hard-working men live upon such a diet with ease, and the 
albumin in their urine decreases. It is to be feared that the 
amount of fat could not be assimilated ; if it were it would in- 
crease the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the body, which most 
authorities consider an evil in connection with this disease. 
Vegetable proteid leaves a much larger undigested residue in 
the bowels than animal proteid, whereby the assimilation of this 
essential element approaches a perilously low degree. Oatmeal 
is very good, and contains iron and phosphates ; green vegetables 
also contain iron in their chlorophyll. We may also allow cauli- 
flower, cabbage, spinach, vegetable marrow or squash, green peas, 
kidney beans, potatoes, sweet potatoes, yams, watercress, celery, 
lettuce, onions, beetroot, bananas, plantains, and most kinds of 
fruit. Vegetables and fruit may always be eaten in moderation. 



592 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

The organic acids and their salts arouse the appetite, increase 
the flow of saliva and gastric juice, and indirectly that of the 
pancreas and the bile ; they are cooling, and stimulate the in- 
testinal movements. The phosphoric acid contained in them 
increases the amount of phosphates in the red corpuscles of the 
blood, and they are therefore valuable for the anaemia. The 
vegetable acids and salts become oxidized during their passage 
through the body, and are converted into alkaline carbonates, which 
increase the flow of urine, stimulate the kidneys and skin, and 
thereby assist in the elimination of v^aste materials from the body. 
Clinical experiments upon patients suffering from chronic 
Bright's disease by Zasiadko^^ of St. Petersburg, with vegetable, 
animal, and mixed diet, gave the following results : (a) With 
vegetable diet only, the albumin decreased markedly and the 
arterial tension sank ; but the dropsy considerably increased, 
the pulse became slower and more compressible, the patient 
weaker and more apathetic. {h) On animal food alone, the 
albumin increased, the dropsy diminished, the urine and its 
solid constituents increased in quantity ; the weight of the body 
decreased, but the pulse was stronger, fuller, and more frequent ; 
the general state improved, the patient became stronger and more 
cheerful, (c) Mixed diet stood midway in its effects, but the 
amount of albumin was nearer to that produced by animal food. 
From these experiments he considers the rational treatment 
consists in raising the general nutrition by means of a liberal 
diet abounding in proteid, and that a mixed diet is the best. 
Italian chestnuts, roasted or otherwise cooked, are strongly 
recommended by him as an article of diet ; they diminish the 
amount of albumin in the urine by virtue of their tannic acid. 

Hale White ^- says restrictions on diet are unnecessary and 
harmful. We do not know for certain that any articles of food 
taken in moderation do harm to a contracted kidney. Plain 
digestible meals are the best ; they should contain a correct pro- 
portion of proteid, carbohydrate, and fat, in such quantities that 
the patient feels well and keeps his weight ; but sauces, condi- 
ments, etc., should only be allowed in very small quantities. He 
agrees with Von Noorden that neither clinical experience nor 
chemical analysis, nor investigations on metabolism, authorize 
us to give a preference to white meat in the treatment of chronic 



BBIGHT'S DISEASE 593 

Brighfc's disease. Too much meat should not be given ; but 
when we allow any at all we have an unlimited choice as to the 
kind, and can easily satisfy our patient's desires. Saundby^^ 
permits butcher's meat (5 ounces) once a day ; but where there 
are headaches or nerve troubles he stops all meat, game, or 
poultry, and only allows white fish, milk, butter, farinaceous 
food, fruit, and vegetables. 

A dry diet is sometimes very useful for the dropsy. Finsen^'* 
found that with a consumption of only 400 grammes (about 
14 ounces) of fluid in a day, the urine increased and distressing 
symptoms decreased ; it causes a concentration of the blood, an 
absorption of fluid from the tissues by the lymphatics, and by 
removing pressure from the abdominal vessels in ascites the urine 
is increased. Oertel, Grocco, and Balfour bear out this state- 
ment. 

In uraemia a milk diet is to be preferred, because it is free 
from purin, and yields very little toxic residue. The inhalation 
of oxygen is valuable to assist in removing by oxidation the 
retained toxic materials which are producing the distress ; and 
leeches or cupping the loins may help to overcome the impermea- 
bility of the kidneys. 

Sometimes an attempt is made to regulate the diet by the 
nitrogenous excretion in the urine, the amount of urea and total 
nitrogenous excretion being estimated at frequent intervals. If 
the nitrogenous waste is not excreted in proportion to the amount 
of proteid consumed, and the body is not gaining in weight, the 
supply of proteid must be reduced, as it is evident the kidneys 
are unable to excrete the waste matters, and must be irritated 
thereby. In all acute exacerbations of the disease the proteid must 
be temporarily reduced. When this principle is acted upon, previous 
to making out the diet list, the urine is collected for twenty-four 
hours, the amount of urea, total nitrogen, and percentage of 
albumin in it are estimated and, together with the weight of the 
patient, recorded. The patient is then placed upon an experi- 
mental diet for three days, after which the urea, total nitrogen, 
percentage of albumin, and weight of the body, are again re- 
corded ; and again after each space of three days until a dietary 
is arrived at which agrees with the patient, and the nitrogen 
excreted balances that in the food. The idea is to feed the 

38 



594 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

patient well, but not to induce fatness, which is a bad cousplica- 
tion and a source of danger to the heart. The amount of proteid 
for a man doing work in ordinary circumstances should be from 
90 to 112 grammes a day, and for a woman 80 to 100 grammes ; 
these limits should not be exceeded in Bright's disease, but it is 
sometimes necessary to reduce the supply to two-thirds of that 
amount. If the albumin decreases, the density of the urine is 
satisfactory, and the general condition of the patient improves, 
such evidences show that the diet agrees. But if the general con- 
dition is not maintained, and the arterial tension and the density 
of the urine increase, even when the amount of albumin is not 
increased, it is probable that there is some error in the diet which 
must be rectified. There is no greater error in the dietary than 
to allow strong broth, soup, animal extracts, extracts of meat, 
meat powder, or substances like sweet-bread, spleen, liver, brain, 
oysters, mussels, the interior of crab or lobster, because the 
nitrogenous substances in them are in such a condition that they 
speedily enter the blood, and, whether transformed into urea or 
uric acid, they are quickly carried to the kidneys. The kidneys 
are thereby irritated, and w^hen the materials are not excreted 
they intensify the risk of urccmia. 

The amount of liquid which may be taken depends entirely 
upon the ability of the kidneys and skin to excrete it. If the 
skin acts well it may be made to assist in the excretion of 
waste materials from the body, and a good supply of liquid is 
then of value. But if the skin keeps dry and the kidneys are 
also unable to excrete water, we must be chary of allowing too 
much to drink, for the reasons mentioned in the paragraph on 
exclusive milk diet. Probably 3 pints daily may be allowed in 
the form of water, milk, tea, coffee, cocoa ; but sometimes it is 
beneiicient to give a dry diet, as already stated. Alcohol is for- 
bidden by many authorities ; indeed, it is badly borne, and may 
do much harm. A little of the purest whisky or Hollands gin, 
loell diluted, may be allowed once or twice a day in certain cases, 
especially when there is cardiac weakness ; but there must be no 
possible risk of excess. Beer causes a deposit of lithates, and 
with it an increase of albumin, for which reason it is forbidden. 
When alcoholism is the known cause of a case of Bright's disease, 
absolute abstinence is necessary for any improvement to be pro- 
cured. 



BEIGHT'S DISEASE 595 

The medicinal waters are beaelicial in many cases. The 
alkaline waters of Vals, Vichy, Ems, Apollinaris, Kissingen, Wies- 
baden, Carlsbad, Bilin, Kronenquelle, Saratoga-Yichy, and Hot 
Springs, are useful for diluting the blood and urine, flushing the 
urinary passages, and promoting the removal of waste products. 
They should be taken as part of the daily allowance of liquid. 
The same remarks apply to plain water, to which has been 
added a little carbonate of soda or potash and common salt. 
In early Bright's disease puffy places under the eyes are fre- 
quently the only visible sign of trouble. If persons having such 
a sign make a practice of drinking freely of cold water or one of 
the mildest alkaline waters to the extent of 2 or 3 pints a day^ 
i.e., a tumblerful before and between each meal — the puffy places 
will vanish, their kidneys and skin will act better, to the improve- 
ment of their complexion and general health. The purgative 
waters of Carlsbad, Marienbad, Baden, and Friedrichshall, which 
contain large quantities of sulphate of magnesia and soda, are 
valuable aids to treatment by removing from the bowels the 
residue of the food, promoting the excretion of the waste of the 
tissues, and removing a quantity of water ; by these means the 
arterial tension is lowered and the patient relieved of dropsy. 
The iron waters of Harrogate, Leamington, Tunbridge Wells, and 
Flitwick, also of Pyrmont, St. Moritz, and other Continental 
and Colonial places, are of undoubted value to enrich the blood 
in the anaemia and debility of Bright's disease, and may to some 
extent restrain the escape of albumin. The waters containing 
the sulphate and carbonate of lime have also an established 
reputation in Bright's disease, and especially those of Bath in 
England ; Contrexeville, Homburg, Wildungen, in Europe ; 
Bethesda and Buffalo in Virginia, U.S.A. 

Baths of the various medicated and plain waters are useful. 
Warm baths at about 90° F. two or three times a week, and a 
Turkish or Eussian bath once a month, encourage the action of 
the skin, relieve the kidneys of congestion, and invigorate the 
body generally. People past middle life should be cautious about 
taking hot baths, and should only do so under medical advice, for 
syncope may occur from weakness of the heart. 

General Remarks. — The general health must be taken care of, 
the digestive organs watched, the bowels regulated, a record 

38—2 



596 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of the percentage of albumin and the nitrogenous excretion kept. 
The patient must be instructed to avoid overwork, mental strain, 
worry, and excitement. The functions of the skin should be 
encouraged by warm baths, dry friction, and warm clothing. 
The patient should always wear woollen underclothing, thin in 
summer, thick in the winter ; also thick boots with a warm 
lining. He must avoid chills, and assist the skin in its elimina- 
tory function. It is best to keep the skin in a mild state of 
perspiration. Tight clothing should be avoided ; it impedes the 
respiration and circulation, and is not so warm. Loose clothing 
is warmer than tight, because each layer encloses a stratum of 
air warmed by the body, which, however, is shut out by close or 
tight-fitting garments. Woollen garments are warmer than others, 
because their cellular nature keeps a layer of warm air near the 
body. Wool is also a bad conductor of heat and very absorbent 
of moisture ; being a bad conductor, it prevents the loss of bodily 
heat, which is a matter of great importance to those whose 
vitality is low. Cotton garments rapidly conduct away the heat 
from the body, whence they are cooler ; but cotton soaks up the 
perspiration, becomes wet, and is apt to cause a chill to the 
surface of the body. Linen rapidly conducts heat from the body, 
and is very cool ; it does not absorb moisture so readily as cotton, 
but is considered inferior to that material for undergarments. 
A woollen garment readily absorbs moisture and retains it, but 
it also retains the heat. After exercise woollen clothes are warm 
and moist, which prevents that chilling of the body that is in- 
duced so readily by the evaporation of heat and moisture allowed 
by cotton and linen. Silk is a bad conductor of heat, and there- 
fore warmer than cotton, but it is neither so warm as wool nor 
so absorbent of moisture ; it is, however, cleanly, shrinks less, 
and is not so irritating to the skin as wool. 

Exercise in the open air in moderation is beneficial by in- 
creasing the action of the skin and tone of the muscles. But 
violent exercise is bad by fatiguing the nerves and muscles, by 
throwing additional strain upon the heart and arteries, and in- 
creasing the amount of nitrogenous waste which the kidneys 
must remove. Patients should be forbidden to go out in bad 
weather or at night, even when they are improving. 

Climate. — It is impossible for all sufferers to choose their place 



BRIGHT'S DISEASE 597 

of residence ; nevertheless, a dry soil is necessary for their 
habitation ; a rocky soil is the best if the surrounding air is good ; 
and a clay soil or a low, damp situation should be avoided. Well- 
to-do people at any rate should change their abode, if they live 
in bleak, damp, windy, or seaside places. Those who are fortu- 
nate enough to be able to change their residence with the season 
should choose a place where the air is moist and warm and the 
temperature is agreeable, especially residing in the South during 
the winter. The following places are suitable : Bournemouth, 
Eastbourne, Devon, Cornwall, the Scilly Isles, Tenby and other 
places in South Wales, South-West Ireland ; the Riviera, Italy, 
Algeria, Egypt, the Canaries, Madeira, the Azores, the Bermudas ; 
South Carolina, Long Island, Florida, California. 

References: ^ Yeo's 'Manual of Treatment.' '^ Medical it'ecorr^, Septem- 
ber 27, 1902. •' ' Dii Regime Alimentaire, ' G. See, 705. * North- Western 
Medicine, September, 1903. ^ Medical Record, September 27, 1902. ^ North- 
western Medicine, September, 1903. '' IMd. * Medical Mecord, September 27, 
1902. » North- Western Medicine, September, 1903. i" llrid. " Vratch, 1890, 
39 {Brit. Med. Jour., 1902, Epitome, 186). '- Discussion at meeting of B.M.A. 
{Brit. Med. Jour., 1904, ii , 886-890). " Ibid, i^ Brit. Med. Jour., 189.5, i.. 
Epitome, 139. 

CHAPTER XXVI 

THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF 
TUBERCULOSIS 

Tubercular diseases cause the death of one-seventh of the 
human race ; it is therefore impossible to know or to write too 
much upon their prevention and treatment. Koch's discovery of 
the Bacillus tuberculosis and the means of recognising it has 
rendered an early diagnosis of the disease possible, and enhanced 
the value of all prophylactic measures. 

All phthisical people about to marry should be warned of the 
risk that their offspring may develop the disease. Even if the 
individuals themselves be free from the disease, their children 
may develop it, if the stock be phthisical." Scrofulous, tuber- 
culous, and superannuated people ought not to be married, or 
should not at any rate become progenitors ; healthy, vigorous 
individuals should not marry cousins or their near relatives. All 
such alliances are likely to end in the production of children of 



598 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

the scrofulous or tubercular diathesis, with a strong tendency to 
the development of consumption. 

Children born of phthisical parents should be subjected to the 
same rules of life as a person who exhibits the early signs of the 
disease, so far as they can be enforced. This is the means of 
eradicating the inherited tendency to the disease, by fitting 
their tissues to resist the invasion of the B. tuberculosis, or, 
rather, unfitting them for the development therein of these 
bacilli. 

Tuberculous mothers should not suckle their young, nor should 
their children be brought up by hand, if this can be avoided. 
The best means of fitting the infant for resisting the disease in 
its many forms, for warding off marasmus, tubercular meningitis, 
struma, scrofula, and diseases of the bones and joints, is to 
provide it with a good wet-nurse. The practice of providing 
motherless infants or the infant of a delicate woman with a wet- 
nurse has fallen into desuetude as other modes of feeding have 
become fashionable. This is unfortunate, for thousands of children 
now die or become the subjects of tuberculous diseases, owing to 
their being bottle-fed, who might escape these troubles if they 
had the milk of a good healthy woman. The practice is old- 
fashioned, and there are some arguments against it ; but the 
greatest and most persuasive argument with most people is its 
expense. A wet-nurse should be subjected to a medical examina- 
tion ; she must not be of phthisical family, nor have any taint 
of this or any other constitutional or communicable disease. 

If the child must be fed by hand, it should have the fresh milk 
of the cow, goat, ewe, or ass, modified to approximate mother's 
milk chemically. From six to twelve months of age the child may 
have, in addition to milk, a little beef-tea, clear soup, egg, or 
custard. Some of the milk may be thickened with one of the 
patent foods, baked flour, arrowroot, or bread. From one to two 
years of age porridge should be given for breakfast ; the juice of 
meat, gravy, or clear soup for dinner, the rest of the food con- 
sisting of milk and milky foods. After the teething is over, the 
child may have a little finely-cut meat once or twice a day, and 
some bread-and-butter in addition to the other articles. Milk 
must still be given liberally for a long time, and the amount the 
child takes at meals should be mostly drunk first ; after this 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 599 

he may have as much bread-and-butter, potato and meat, or 
gravy, as he reasonably wants. The child's bread should not be 
soaked in milk or gravy ; he should chew it so that it may be 
intimately mixed with the saliva, whereby its starchy ingredients 
are converted into sugar, and more easily digested. But milk may 
be given freely while the child is eating bread, between each 
mouthful or two, for more will be drunk so than otherwise. 

In childhood the disease is promoted by every condition incom- 
patible with health to which the system is exposed. The body 
must therefore be fortified against it by good food and hygienic 
management. In this period the diet should consist of plenty of 
meat, soup, eggs and milk, with a fair amount of bread, potato, 
and farinaceous puddings. Potat'!)es should not be taken to the 
exclusion of other things, but in moderation they are valuable 
for their starch, and the salts which give them their antiscorbutic 
properties. Oatmeal and lentils are valuable, as, in addition to 
their proteid and carbohydrate elements, they are rich in iron 
and phosphates. It often happens that, as soon as a child 
shows signs of tubercular glands or other such trouble, he is 
deprived of all bread and potato and dosed freely with cod-liver 
oil, as though the latter could entirely replace the former to the 
patient's great and lasting benefit. Bread and potatoes are not 
the cause of deterioration of the organism, nor should they be 
stopped from the dietary, except in so far as they are replaced 
by meat, milk, eggs, and other nitrogenous foods. It was formerly 
thought that a diet of bread and potatoes favours the develop- 
ment of the tubercle ; and perhaps they do, but only because the 
diet contains an insufficiency of proteid material ; therefore do 
not cut them off entirely, but add more nitrogenous food to the 
diet, as already indicated. 

The importance of an abundance of fresh air and muscular 
exercise for children cannot be too much impressed on parents as 
preventive measures. It is useless to modify the diet and dose 
the child with cod-liver oil if, at the same time, it is allowed to 
sit all day long in a close room or crowded schoolroom. The 
schoolroom must be well ventilated, the school hours not too 
long, and long evening studies must not be allowed. There must 
be plenty of outdoor exercise in gymnastics, or at least with 
hoop, skipping-rope, or shuttlecock and battledore. The great. 



600 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

mischief is that girls give up their exercise too early in life ; 
almost before puberty comes upon them they consider it un- 
womanly to exercise in this manner. As they become too old for 
childish games, they must be encouraged to continue to take 
exercise in the open air by a reasonable amount of hockey, tennis, 
cricket, cycling, or riding, along with their brothers, to whom 
exercise is equally a necessity. Indeed, to be successful in our 
object, we must definitely prescribe the amount of food and drink, 
the number of hours to be allotted to lessons, to play and exercise, 
and to sleep. 

There is no remedy which has so well established a reputation 
as cod-liver oil, both in the prevention and treatment of phthisis, 
and there is no remedy whicb has been more abused. It must 
be remembered that it is not every cJiild of tubercular habit or 
phthisical descent which is benefited by cod-liver oil. Physicians 
are taught this by daily experience. Frequently a child having a 
bunch of enlarged glands and a scrofulous appearance derives no 
benefit whatever from it, but is made worse, owing to the gastric 
digestion being upset, and to that distaste for fat which is so 
often the harbinger of phthisis. As a general rule, the child 
which is thick-set, plump, clumsy, lethargic, or of slow mental 
activity, is not benefited by it, even though there are enlarged 
glands and other signs of deterioration of the organism. The 
children most benefited by it are those who are dark-haired, thin, 
and slender, with a delicate skin which shows the veins meander- 
ing beneath it, and a general ethereal appearance ; they usually 
have an accelerated pulse, are quick, sharp, of great mental 
activity and excitable nature ; these are the children that require 
cod-liver oil, and derive great iniprovement from it. It must be 
administered to them for months to get really good results ; the 
dose should be small at the beginning and gradually increased to 
three or four teaspoonfuls daily. The disgust which children 
have for the oil is soon overcome ; they cease to fight against it, 
and even ask for their customary dose. It is advisable to leave 
it off now and then for a week or so, otherwise we may induce 
an unconquerable aversion to it. There are various emulsions, 
and mixtures of the oil with malt extract, which are more 
palatable than the plain oil ; some of these are especially useful, 
but it must not be overlooked that the oil is diluted to the extent 



TEEATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS 601 

of the articles mixed with it, and therefore a larger dose must be 
given. 

Baths are very beneficial in these cases,- and it so happens that 
the children who cannot take the cod-liver oil with advantage are 
the very ones who are the most benefited by bathing, and vice 
versa. Ordinary plain baths have cured many cases of struma 
and considerably improved the tone of children with tubercular 
tendencies ; but the medicated- water baths, such as sea water, 
brine baths, bromo-iodine, and sulphurous waters, are better, and 
are really valuable in these cases. The waters containing the 
elements referred to are justly esteemed as alteratives and pro- 
moters of metabolism ; indeed, they enjoy a reputation as great 
as that of cod-liver oil, both for internal and external use. Where 
circumstances do not admit of removal to the source of the 
water, brine baths and sea baths can be used at home. The 
bath may be taken at almost any temperature between 60° or 64° 
(cold baths) and 100° F. (hot baths), but from personal experience 
I consider that nearly cold bathing does the most good. 

Phthisical persons, and those of strong phthisical tendencies, 
should not marry. Phthisical persons should not occupy the 
same bed or bedroom with a healthy person. There are very 
strong grounds for belief that this disease is sometimes trans- 
mitted from husband to wife, and that those who continually 
nurse tuberculous patients sometimes become infected. Simple 
contact or occasionally visiting such patients is devoid of danger, 
as is shown by the daily experience of medical men, especially 
of the resident medical men and nurses in hospitals devoted to 
the treatment of the disease. 

A predisposition to consumption was formerly believed to be 
shown by certain characteristics of the diathesis, of which there 
are two types : (a) The dark, beautiful person, of sharp mental 
activity, nervous, and usually thin — the tubercular type ; and 
(6) the fair, coarse-skinned, muddy-looking individual, rather fat, 
clumsy, and of slow mental activity — the scrofulous type. Un- 
doubtedly these types represent a delicate organization of the 
body, with tissues little able to resist the invasion of the B. 
tuberculosis ; but a large number of phthisical people could not 
be classed with either of these groups. 

Persons of known phthisical tendency or parentage should be 



602 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

especially protected from the precursors of the disease, which 
have so often been observed in these cases, and may be called 
the preclisijosing causes) Among these we have to reckon — 

(a) Wet and Damp. — Such individuals must avoid frequent ex- 
posure to wet and damp, which lowers the vitality and predis- 
poses to many diseases. It is especially a combination of cold 
and damp that is the worst. There is an undue proportion of 
deaths from phthisis among people who live on damp or im- 
perfectly drained or made-up soil. Where a choice of site is 
possible, delicate individuals must live in a good, healthy district, 
with healthy surroundings and all sanitary conveniences It is 
believed that a subsoil of sand or gravel is the driest, and there- 
fore the healthiest, and this is true in the main. The situation 
must therefore be elevated and on a gentle slope to favour natural 
drainage, both in surface and in subsoil. Clay subsoil makes the 
house cold and damp by retaining dampness ; chalk, on the other 
hand, is usually dry but cold, because it does not absorb much 
heat ; and made ground must be avoided always. 

There is a common belief that repeated colds are a cause of 
phthisis. The fact is that many persons with a predisposition to 
phthisis are frequently the subjects of catarrh. It is therefore 
highly important that such persons should avoid ' catching cold.' 
There is little doubt that a prolonged bronchial catarrh, a catarrhal 
pneumonia, whooping-cough, or even measles, will lower the 
resistance of the lungs, and so lead with other favourable con- 
ditions to the deposition of tubercles. 

(&) Deficiency of Animal Food. — An absence of a due propor- 
tion of meat from the diet is one of the most prolific sources of 
ill-health, and in combination with overwork, worry, and such 
things, is a frequent predisposing cause of phthisis. On the 
other hand, high feeding is a grand means of fortifying the 
system against the invasion by it of the B. tuherculosis. In a 
person of phthisical stock, or with a known tendency to phthisis, 
the feeding should be carried out on the lines indicated for 
feeding in consumption. 

(c) The purity of the surrounding air is a matter of nearly as 
great importance as the food. Overcrowding, working in close 
and ill-ventilated rooms or with the fumes of gas, etc., frequently 
co-operates with the foregoing as a cause of phthisis. The dust 



TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS 603 

arising from the material in the workroom may produce the 
bronchial catarrh or the catarrhal pneumonia which is the fore- 
runner of phthisis. In many trade processes gases of an in- 
jurious character are evolved, and escape into the air which must 
be breathed by the workpeople engaged therein ; but the vast 
majority of trades are injurious or otherwise in proportion to the 
amount and kind of dust produced. The long-continued inhala- 
tion of dust produces diseases of the respiratory organs, especially 
bronchitis and emphysema, interstitial pneumonia, and fibroid 
phthisis. The mortality from all causes among males engaged in 
dusty occupations in England and Wales may be taken as 1,000 ; 
of this, 200 deaths are due to tubercular consumption and 182 to 
other diseases of the lungs. This can be taken as a proof that pure 
air, well-ventilated rooms, and plenty of space, are as necessary 
as good food, and that the avoidance of impure air, bad ventila- 
tion, and overcrowding, are all-important in the prevention of 
disease. Besides this, the bacilli of the disease have been ob- 
tained from the floors and walls both of houses and worksliops 
occupied by consumptive people ; these must therefore be inhaled 
with the dust. 

(d) Exhausting discharges, prolonged suckling of infants, and 
frequent child-bearing, are among the well-known precursors of 
consumption among women, and most certainly require attention. 

(e) Any condition wliich loivers vitality predisposes to consump- 
tion, and renders a dehcate person hable to its invasion ; among 
these we must reckon excessive indulgence in alcohol, sexual 
excess, syphilis, and all other exhausting diseases. 

(/) The milk of cons for domestic purposes should all be boiled. 
It is an animal food, and for that reason alone it ought to be 
cooked. It is also necessary for protection against chance infec- 
tion by diseases ; for there are several which can be transmitted 
to human beings by means of milk, and it is believed that among 
them we must reckon bovine tuberculosis. Stall-fed cov^?s are 
very susceptible to tubercle. It is stated that 25 per cent, of 
cows kept in town are the subjects of this disease, and even the 
best-bred animals are liable to it. While in the glands the milk 
may not contain the germs ; but there may be ulcers upon the 
udders, the discharge from which, laden with bacilli, becomes 
disseminated in the milk. It is argued that if cow's milk causes 



604 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

tuberculosis in human beings the disease ought to commence in 
the bowels rather than in the lungs. Probably a large proportion 
of the cases of tubercle of the abdominal glands (tabes mesen- 
terica) are due to this cause; but it does not follow that the 
abdomen must always be the primary seat of the disease when 
the infection arises from milk. The disease may begin in the 
abdomen, brain or lungs, or, avoiding these, the primary seat 
may be in a bone or joint. It still remains to he proven that the 
milk of tabcrmiloiis cows does not cause tuberculosis in human 
beings, in spite of arguments to the contrary. The bacilli in man 
and cows are identical in appearance, and it has been clearly 
proved that rabbits, dogs, gainea-pigs, etc., fed with tuberculous 
cow's milk will become tubercular. If the disease is thus trans- 
mitted to animals, why not to children ? Indeed, there is strong 
evidence that it is so transmissible ; and further support to this 
idea is given by the fact that the' percentage of children under 
five years of age who die from tubercular meningitis, ulceration 
of the bowels, and tabes mesenterica, is very high. 

(g) The pet animals of children— guinea-pigs, young dogs, kittens, 
white mice, rabbits, etc.— are prone to tuberculosis, and may 
possibly communicate it to the children who play with them. 
All weakly or sickly animals of this class ought to be destroyed 
without reserve. 

(/i) The flesh of animals is capable of transmitting certain 
diseases to man, including phthisis and tubercle. These diseases 
arise more commonly in other ways, but it must not be forgotten 
that such transmission is possible, and that such an origin would 
be far more common were it not for precautions taken to prevent 
the sale of unsound meat, and the additional safeguard in 
thoroughly cooking all kinds of animal food. 

(i) Not the least danger of infection arises from a person suffering 
loith the disease, and certain precautions are necessary to prevent 
his spreading the disease to others. The researches of science 
show that the patient's breath does not contain the bacilli, but 
that the phlegm or sputum may be loaded with them. If the 
patient spits upon the floor anywhere, and the sputum is allowed 
to become dry, particles of dust are formed, which float about in 
the air and carry the germs with them. The air of a room or 
other place may thus become sufliciently impregnated to be 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 605 

positively dangerous to a healthy person, to say nothing of one 
who has a predisposition to the disease. The floors, walls, and 
furniture of rooms occupied by phthisical patients become in- 
fected by germs. The bacilli have been collected from such 
sources, and experimental inoculation of animals has produced 
the disease in them. Such experiments explain the frequent 
occcurrence of the disease in a particular house, among the 
employes of a particular warehouse, manufactory, barracks, or 
public institution. From these considerations we learn the 
following means of preventing the spreading of this disease : 

Let lyroper care be taken of the sputa. A consumptive person 
must not swallow his phlegm, because it might be the means of 
spreading the disease to other organs in his body. He ought also 
to be careful not to be the means of distributing the disease to 
other people by it. Proper spit-boxes, spittoons, or cuspidors 
must be used ; they should contain a 5 per cent, solution of 
carbolic acid or other similar disinfectant. They should be 
capable of further disinfection by boiling or cleansing with a 
solution of bichloride of mercury. The patient must avoid 
spitting, except into such receptacles as are described, or into 
small pieces of rag or paper containing disinfectants. 

The rooms used by a consumptive must be thoroughly venti- 
lated. There is little doubt that frequent changing of the air 
dilutes the poison, diminishes the number of germs, and minimizes 
the risk of infection from this source. 

The clothing, especially the underclothing and the bed-linen, of 
the patient should be boiled, or at any rate scalded, when being 
washed. 

Thoroughly cleansing the rooms occupied by the patient is also 
of importance. An occasional ' spring-cleaniog ' is imperative, 
disinfectants being used in the process. When a person has died 
from this disease the rooms must be disinfected with sulphur or 
formalin ; the paper should be stripped oiif the walls and burned ; 
the ceilings and cornices limewashed, and all woodwork, in- 
cluding the floors, should be washed in a solution of carbolic 
acid or with carbolic soap. 

Pre-phthisis. — In all cases of consumption there is a stage which 
may be called pre-])hthisis, in which, before the deposition of 
tubercle in the organs, there are signs of deficiency and weakness, 



606 . POOD AND HYGIENE 

with some deterioration of the blood, due to anaemia. In these 
patients a course of ferruginous preparations and waters is 
strongly advised. Such persons must exercise unusual care to 
avoid ' catching cold,' especially by wearing fiannel next the skin. 
Sudden chilling of the skin is not followed by sickness in all 
cases ; bufc undoubted examples have occurred to all physicians 
in which the signs of consumption made their appearance at no 
very long date after a severe chilling or unusual wetting of the 
skin. One must be quite sure that the catarrhal products in 
pneumonia are quite dried up, or pleurisy quite cured, before the 
patient is allowed to return to business, to school, or even to take 
exercise in the open air. The inflammatory products of pneu- 
monia or pleurisy frequently become degenerated, and form an 
exceedingly suitable nidus for the growth of the tubercle 
bacillus. 

Best and Change of Air. — In the stage of pre-pbthisis and in 
the early stage of consumption patients who have the means 
ought, above all things, to throw up their position in the counting- 
house, office, or warehouse, to avoid the overheated, dust-laden 
atmosphere, and also to avoid heated and tobacco-laden club- 
rooms. For, though the exposure of a person with a delicate 
chest to these bad influences may prove injurious to a weak lung 
and end in consumption, the disease is often promptly arrested 
and brought to a favourable issue by their careful avoidance. 
The patient must remove to a district with pure air, avoid work 
and worry, and lead a quiet life, the beneficial effect of change 
of air being equally marked in all classes of people. The object 
is to inhale a pure, bracing air for many hours daily without the 
risk of 'catching cold,' and without undue strain on the lungs. 
This may be obtained by a sea voyage of long duration, or by 
residence in certain districts of Colorado, California, Cape Colony, 
New Zealand, or at high altitudes in the Alps of Switzerland. 
The place of residence should be chosen according to the time 
of the year, one place being better for summer and another for 
winter. In less favourable climates there are many especially 
constructed sanatoria in which an outdoor life is adopted. In 
this open-air treatment the patients live as much as possible in 
verandas or summer-houses open to the air, but so constructed 
that they are protected from wind or wet. This treatment has 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 607 

been especially marked with success in cases of non-feverish 
phthisis when used in combination with overfeeding. 

Diet. — Wa7it of apiMite, indigestion, nausea, and vo^niting are 
unpleasant symptoms of common occurrence in these early cases 
and during the whole course of phthisis. Catarrh of the stomach, 
with a distaste for fatty food and a very capricious appetite, are 
marks of the individual of strumous or tuberculous type, even 
before physical signs of the disease appear. Due attention must 
therefore be paid to it ; the stomach must be coaxed or indulged 
to some extent ; medicines given to aid its recovery promote 
appetite and enc:)urage alimentary secretions. 

Loss of flesh and strength is the rule. Emaciation is one of the 
earliest symptoms of the disease, and ought to be taken as a 
note of warning when a cough of unusual duration has been 
thought to be due to a simple catarrh or of pharyngeal or gastric 
origin. This sign must be met by overfeeding. The patient 
requires the richest diet that will agree with the stomach. All 
food is proper that contains fat or fat-generating and flesh-forming 
elements. Milk cannot be taken too abundantly : from 3 to 6 
pints a day may be consumed. The milk of animals which feed 
on mountain pastures, as that of ewes or goats, is richer in fiesh- 
and fat-forming substances than cow's milk, and is therefore 
commendable as a milk-cure when patients are within reach of 
it. But when patients cannot travel to obtain it, they must 
carry out the milk-cure at home with cow's milk. Plenty of 
animal food is required, as beef, mutton, lamb, liver, spleen,, sioeet- 
bread and kidneys, fat ham, bacon, game, poultry, and eggs. 
Most kinds of fish may be eaten, and oysters, either raw or cooked. 
Soups made of beef, mutton, chicken or game, may advantage- 
ously be thickened with rye-meal, lentils, pea-flour, bean-meal, 
barley-meal, or rice, and flavoured with tomato, celery, onion, 
etc. All kinds of meat essences are valuable. 

Puddings consisting of milk and eggs, with farinaceous sub- 
stances like oatmeal, hominy, rice, sago, tapioca, vermicelli, 
macaroni, are valuable ; custards, jellies, trifle, cream, are also 
useful. 

Vegetables : potato, cabbage, spinach, onions, asparagus, celery, 
watercress, lettuce, tomato, beet, and parsnip. Fruit : grapes 
(which contain 25 per cent, of sugar), strawberries, apples, dates. 



608 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

prunes, ligs, bananas, melons, cherries, mulberries, and all sweet 
fruits, are recommended. The drink should be chiefly of fresh 
milk alone, or with tea, coffee, and chocolate ; buttermilk, whey ; 
pure water ; bitter ale or stout, Bordeaux, Burgundy, wines con- 
taining iron, and all sweet wines. Stimulants are not vitally 
necessary in early cases, and must by no means be allowed to 
upset digestion. There must be four good meals a day, about 
four hours apart ; the patient should also have milk, milk and 
raw egg, or custard, at least once between the meals and in the 
night, if he awakes. We must insist that the food should be as 
rich as possible in nutriment, and yet as plain in the cooking as 
is compatible therewith, easy of digestion, and abundant. Fats 
and carbohydrates are as important as proteid food. Whole- 
meal bread is better than white, if it does not irritate the 
stomach. Oatmeal and maize are valuable as they contain 
much fat, lentils much phosphates and iron, bean or pea meal 
much albumin, and all green portions of plants contain iron and 
valuable salts. Milk contains all the elements required in the 
body, but is deficient in iron. Cream can be taken by many 
persons who are unable to take cod-liver oil ; it can be given 
abundantly in tea or coffee, with fruit, or added to other milk, 
or made palatable by the addition of a teaspoonful of brandy 
or sal volatile. The fat in milk can be increased in fat by boiling 
finely shredded suet in it. Persons who object to fat meat may 
be able to take a large quantity of butter ; it contains the same 
fatty acids as beef and mutton fat, but less of stearin and more 
of olein. It appears to be the stearoptene or stearin in meat 
which is objectionable to patients. Clotted cream and cream 
cheese are nearly the same as butter, consisting mainly of con- 
densed cream. Cod-liver oil consists chiefly of olein, a liquid fat, 
together with some margarine, palmatin, and stearin, and about 
5 per cent, of free acids which aid in the digestion of the fat. 
Cod-liver oil is commendable as a fat which is easily digested by 
patients; it is a valuable alterative by virtue of the traces of 
iodine and bromine which it contains, but we must not impress 
ourselves with the idea that it cannot he done ivithout. It in- 
creases the richness of the chyle, and improves the quality of 
the blood. It only differs from almond or olive oil in its free 
acids and salts; buj; it contains less palmitin and stearin than 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 609 

the fat of butter and meat. We must ascertain that our patients 
can digest cod-liver oil. It is contraindicated in gastric catarrh, 
diarrhoea, or haemoptysis. In all other cases it must be taken 
for months together for its alterative effect, which is quite 
secondary to its action as a food. 

Another important matter is the digestion of carbohydrate 
food. In many cases the secretions are defective in amylolytic 
ferments, in consequence of which the amylaceous foods, starches 
in particular, are but feebly acted upon. There is no more suit- 
able remedy for this trouble than extract of malt. This consists 
of malt sugar, with some dextrin, albumin, and the soluble 
phosphates of the barley ; it is both directly and indirectly nutri- 
tive. The sugar or maltose does not give rise to acidity and 
dyspepsia, like sweets containing cane-sugar ; its albuminous 
constituents are fiesh-forming, its phosphates and salts enrich 
the blood. Above all, it contains among its albuminoids an 
active ferment, diastase, which acts powerfully upon starch in 
bread and other foods, and converts it into sugar ; good speci- 
mens of the extract will convert several times their bulk of starch 
into sugar. Diastase is most active in an alkaline medium ; it is 
therefore better that the extract be given in some vvarm gruel or 
other farinaceous food just before a meal ; or it may be given 
about two hours after the meal, when the acid of the stomach is 
becoming exhausted. It is often made the vehicle for adminis- 
tering cod-liver oil. 

The Anaemia. — Oxygen is necessary for life, and the red cor- 
puscle is the medium by which it is carried all over the body. 
The less oxygen in the blood, the more powerful are the demands 
for a greater activity in the lungs ; hence quickened breathing 
and dyspnoea. Antemia is the rule from the earlier stages of 
tuberculosis, and is due to loss of nutrition. The skin becomes 
pale and waxy-looking, the mucous membranes pale, the conjunc- 
tivae of a pearly lustre ; the breathing quick and more or less 
difficult on exertion ; there is palpitation ; also spots before the 
eyes, ringing in the ears, or faintness. Amenorrhoea is not un- 
common. The treatment is largely by giving animal food, red 
meat, raw-meat juice, red marrow and its preparations, defibri- 
nated blood, spleen pulp, liver, eggs raw and cooked; oatmeal 
and lentils, for their iron and phosphates ; green vegetables, for 

39 



610 • FOOD AND HYGIENE 

their iron-bearing chlorophyll and salts. It is useless to attempt 
to force the menses ; but such drugs as iron, myrrh, and aloes, 
which act very largely by improving the blood and general nutrition, 
and keeping the bowels clear, may bring about the desired period. 
A high temperature may or may not be present from early days ; 
its presence or absence bears some relation to the activity or 
otherwise of the disease. When it occurs only occasionally, a 
few days' rest in bed until it has subsided is the best treatment. 
Such patients are not the best for open-air treatment, nor do they 
stand long journeys, even when taken for their health, very well. 
Pyrexial cases must not be exposed to all weathers, for they run 
the greatest risk of catarrh and consequent invasion of fresh tissue 
by the microbes during the attack. 

The mental condition of these patients is usually one of great 
hopefulness and great confidence in their power of recuperation ; 
even when very ill in bed they believe in their speedy recovery 
if only they could get rid of their cough. 

Our chief reliance is upon the improvement of the body and 
its tissues in every possible way, so that it may be enabled to 
resist the inroads of the disease. This indication is best met by 
pure air, perfect hygienic surroundings, sufficient exercise, and 
abundance of good food.^ 

In pronounced consumption the most important symptoms are 
wasting, progressive debility, night sweats, fever, cough, ex- 
pectoration, pain in the chest, shortness of breath, and the 
presence of the B. tuberculosis in the phlegm. Tuberculosis or 
tubercular consumption is a typical wasting disease. Some form 
of ill-health interferes with the nutrition, in consequence of which 
the cells of the body deteriorate and form a suitable growing 
place for the bacillus, which commonly settles in the lungs when 
it is inhaled, and in the abdominal glands or brain when the 
infection is taken into the body with the food. Deficient oxygena- 
tion of the blood follows, and causes grave secondary anaaiiia. 
The nervous system, no longer receiving its proper supply of 
oxygen and other nourishment, becomes readily exhausted. The 
toxins produced by the bacilli markedly impress both the muscular 
and nervous systems, whereby the previous deleterious effects of 
the process are increased. When large cavities are formed in 
the lungs the constitution becomes undermined by a septic process, 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 611 

arising from suppuration of the walls of the cavities, in which 
toxins are produced by other roicro-organisms such as the strepto- 
coccus and staphylococcus, which give rise to what is known as 
the ' mixed infection.' 

The treatment of well-marked consumption should be chiefly 
by an out-of-door life, warm clothing, abundance of nourishing 
food, cleanHness of the skin, and friction with a rough towel 
every morning ; daily moderate exercise by walking or hill- 
climbing, walking on a low-graded incline which necessitates 
deep breathing and flushes the skin with blood ; and change of 
residence from a low damp to a high bracing or warm region, 
according to the character and stage of the disease. Such a 
regimen will increase the consumptive's power by building up his 
system. 

Little need be added to what has already been said about the 
food. It should be sufficient to yield 3,000 calories. The impor- 
tance of milk in all forms of wasting diseases cannot be insisted 
on too much ; 2 to 4 pints should be taken daily in divided doses, 
with or in addition to the ordinary meals. It may be con- 
sumed in any form known to the art of cookery. Fat and carbo- 
hydrates are foods usually considered to favour an increase of 
flesh in most people, and they may be taken abundantly in all 
forms. Fat meat, butter, cream, cream cheese, suet in puddings, 
suet boiled in milk, cod-liver oil, salad oil, fish roe, and caviare, 
are very useful, and their digestion may be aided when necessary 
by a pancreatic emulsion. Carbohydrates, especially starch and 
sugar, in the form of bread a day or two old, which may be eaten 
with plenty of butter, and jam, marmalade, treacle, or honey, are 
some of the best forms. Milk puddings made of rice, sago, 
tapioca, revalenta or semolina, and enriched by the addition of 
eggs and butter, rank very high as flesh-formers ; and their 
digestion may be aided when necessary by the judicious use of 
extract of malt. Wholemeal bread is better than white, because 
of the larger proportion of phosphates which it contains, but 
ordinary brown or bran bread may cause gastric catarrh. Lentil 
flour may be mixed with wheat-meal, and is valuable from its 
containing much iron and phosphates. Bean-flour added to 
wheat-meal also increases the nutritive properties of the bread, 
and gives the loaf a golden tint which adds to its attractive 

39—2 



612 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

appearance. Oatmeal and maize-meal are also rich in fat, fat 
predominating in maize and iron in oatmeal. No less important 
is the consumption of meat of digestible kinds, especially when 
we remember that 100 parts of proteid are capable of producing 
within the body 40 parts of fat. When, therefore, we recom- 
mend an abundance of meat with an abundance of other foods, 
we may sum up the dietetics of tubercular phthisis by saying the 
patient must live well, but chiefly on such foods as are known to 
encourage the formation of fat. The diet may, therefore, include 
all kinds of soup, especially oxtail soup, veal broth, kidney soup, 
turtle soup, clam soup, beef-tea, and other meat infusions,, 
thickened with maize, lentil, bean or pea flour. Fish of every 
kind is permissible, and, being quickly digested, it allows a more 
rapid repetition of proteid meals than when the eolation consists 
chiefly of meat In some instances it is advisable to keep to the 
lighter kinds, as sole, plaice, turbot, brill, flounder, haddock, cod ; 
but the herring, mackerel, and salmon family, being richer in fat, 
should not be forgotten when the patient's digestive power is 
equal to the demand they call forth. All kinds of meat may 
betaken — mutton, lamb, beef, poultry, game, and eggs — raw, 
under-done, or well cooked, from a joint, minced, scraped, or in a 
powder. More meat can be eaten when it is well minced or 
scraped than when it is cut from a joint. Eaw meat can be cut 
into small pieces and swallowed whole after dipping it in a little 
tomato sauce or chutney, and, being minced, it can be eaten in 
soup. Sweet-bread, liver, kidneys, oysters, snails, and raw meat, 
are said to be particularly serviceable to consumptive people. 
We cannot fix the exact amount of food which each person should 
eat, but it ought to be something above the normal diet — an 
abundant food, rich in proteid, fat, and carbohydrate. It should 
consist of materials readily digested, and care must be taken not 
to take foods which would cause indigestion or diarrhoea. As an 
example, the dietary of a case quoted by Dr. Mackenzie- is 
given. It included 3 pints of milk, 7 ounces of meat, 1 egg, 
2 ounces of bacon, 4 ounces of butter, 7 ounces of bread, 3 ounces 
of potato, 3 ounces of cabbage, | ounce of rice, and 1 ounce of 
sugar. It contained 148 grammes of proteid, 212 grammes of 
fat, 222 grammes of carbohydrate, and yielded 3,560 calories. 
As the proportion of carbohydrate is small and the fat relatively 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 613 

high, the diet might be improved by leaving out an ounce of butter 
and including more bread, potato, arrowroot, sugar, or other form 
of carbohydrate. 

The Brompton Hospital dietary for consumptives contains 
12 ounces of uncooked beef, mutton, lamb, or pork for men, and 
8 ounces for women ; as an alternative, 8 ounces of chicken, 
rabbit, or fish is allowed. The other items are — • bread, 10 
ounces ; butter, 1| ounces ; potato, o^ ounces ; vegetables, 5 
ounces ; 1 egg ; bacon, 3 ounces for a man or 2 ounces for a 
woman ; tea, -|- ounce ; coffee, ^ ounce ; sugar, 2 ounces ; cocoa, 
1^7 ounces ; milk, 1| pints. 

The dietary of most of the German sanatoria is as follows : 
Breakfast, 10 to 20 ounces of milk, or the same amount of coffee 
or cocoa containing one or two raw eggs ; also meat or bacon 
with bread-and-butter. Lunch, about 10 o'clock, a glass or two 
of milk with bread-and-butter, or a glass or two of port or 
sherry. The dinner at noon consists of a rather heavy meal 
of the ordinary articles. At 4 p.m. two glassfuls of cocoa con- 
taining a raw egg in each is taken with bread-and-butter. Supper, 
at 7 p.m., includes cold ham or meat from a hot joint with 
roast potatoes, bread-and-butter, and a glassful or two of beer 
or wine. 

All consumptives must avoid badly ventilated rooms, crowded 
meetings, or a dusty atmosphere. A person whose occupation 
predisposes to consumption, as a printer, tailor, cloth-cutter, 
stone-mason, steel-grinder, or book-keeper, should change his 
occupation if possible to one which will enable him to spend 
most of his time in the open air. He must, at least, lead a 
steady and sober life, keep early hours, have regular meals, avoid 
over-exertion, and be out of doors as much as possible. 

Change of climate is often a valuable aid in the treatment, 
but it is by no means a panacea for tuberculosis. A sea voyage 
is beneficial to many who are not feverish, but those who are 
feverish, or in whom the disease is rapidly progressive, usually 
do badly at sea. The best is a long trip to Australia or the 
Cape and back, avoiding the Mediterranean route, especially on 
the return journey. 

The medical faculty has always been alive to the necessity for 
pure air laden with ozone, and a maximum of light and sunshine, 



614 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

and certain localities have been found to excel in these essentials. 
The question then arises, Who to send and who not to send. It 
has been observed that in nearly every instance in which the 
tubercular process was actually arrested, and the tubercle calcified 
or cleared up, the diagnosis was made early and the patient 
speedily placed in a suitable environment, by which the destruc- 
tive process was arrested. Many people have, as it were, been 
snatched from the jaws of imminent death. But life-saving and 
health-restoring as change of climate is to those who can afford it 
or are willing to ' rough it,' nothing can exceed the pitiful misery of 
many poor home-sick, perhaps moneyless, consumptives stranded 
in a foreign country, or, at any rate, a very long way from 
home, in the last stages of consumption, to die strangers in 
a strange land. It behoves us, therefore, to be careful in the 
selection of those whom we send, and the place to which we 
send them. 

A high, dry, cold climate or ' altitude treatment ' is very suitable 
for early cases of phthisis, even of the hajmorrhagic type, if there is 
but little constitutional disturbance. The benefits of this change 
are chiefly of a mechanical or physical nature : improved venti- 
lation and increased expansion of the lungs, necessitated by rare- 
faction and stillness of the atmosphere, the pressure of which is 
20 or more per cent, lower than it is at sea-level ; greater sun- 
shine ; pure dry air, free from dust or other floating particles ; 
greater amount of ozone ; a low mean annual temperature ; and 
an exhilarating mental effect. These advantages maybe obtained 
at Davos, Wiesen, and Maloja in Switzerland ; the Tyrol or the 
higher Pyrenees ; in the hills of South Africa ; in the Catskill 
and Adirondack Mountains, or at San Angelo^ Denver, El Paso, 
and Arizona in the United States ; in Australia the Australian Alps 
and Pyrenees of Victoria, the Kosciusko group, the Blue Moun- 
tains and New England range of New South Wales, and Darling 
range in Western Australia. The altitude hostel or sanatorium 
should be not less than 1,000, and some of them are as much as 
6,000, feet above the sea-level. Sir H. Weber considers that this 
elevation should only be reached by easy stages. Pregowski^ 
and others state that the risks of haemorrhage are less if the 
patient remains in bed for a few days after arrival. It is observed 
that the patient sometimes suffers from great weakness or a 



TEEATMBNT OF TUBERCULOSIS 615 

relapse owing to the sudden change of chmate, but a rest in bed 
and rather low diet for a few days after arrival will usually 
prevent such occurrences. It is also advisable, when the change 
of elevation and temperature is very great, that the room occupied 
by the patient should be warmed and the windows closed. This 
may appear to annihilate the benefit of a sudden change of 
climate, but Pregowski and others assert that the risk of 
haemorrhage or illness in other forms is lessened thereby, and 
the benefit of change of air is just as sure, although it is derived 
more gradually. The people who do well are those with early 
phthisis, especially with an inherited or acquired tendency, most 
people with confirmed phthisis, and phlegmatic persons who are 
convalescent from pneumonia, pleurisy, or bronchitis. The people 
who do not do well at an elevation are thus classified from the 
writings of Sir H. Weber ^ and others : The nervous type of 
patient with quick pulse and little power of resistance or irritable 
disposition ; those who cannot eat or sleep well at an elevation ; 
persons with advanced or rapidly progressiva phthisis in which 
there is continual fever, formation of cavities, rapid loss of 
weight, or complication by dilatation or valvular disease of the 
heart, ulceration of the larynx, and other diseases of the chest or 
kidneys. 

A ivarm, dry climate is suitable for cases of a catarrhal type 
in which large cavities are found and there is an excessive secre- 
tion of phlegm — e.g., Bournemouth, Nice, Pau, Egypt, Algeria, 
and Southern hill districts generally ; in America the high and 
dry regions of New Mexico and Arizona. 

.1 ivarm, moist climate is best for those who have much cough, 
but not an excessive secretion of phlegm, as at Ealmouth, 
Penzance, Mullion, the Sciliy Isles, Hastings, Tenby, Aberyst- 
wyth, Margate, West of Scotland, South-West Ireland ; Cannes, 
Mentone, San Eemo ; Madeira, the Canaries, the Azores, the 
Bermudas, and the West Indies; in America, Long Island, 
Texas, Florida, Colorado, and California. South Africa, New 
Zealand, and some of the American places, are adapted for men 
who can do out-of-door work and are willing to rough it. It is 
useless to send men or women who depend on luxurious sur- 
roundings and home comforts to such places, and the patient 
should be quite sure of a berth before going out, as many persons 



616 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

have gone with little more money than would pay their passage, 
to find great difficulty in obtaining a position, and often no opening 
whatever for them. 

The South of England has a superior climate, well adapted for 
invalids in winter — i.e., December, January, February ; but in 
March the temperature approximates that of the interior, and 
in April and May the temperature of the interior is slightly 
higher than that of the coast, and continues to rise above it 
in less ratio through the summer; in October the inland and 
coast temperatures are about equal, after which the advantage 
is again with the southern coast. Falmouth, Penzance, and all 
the coast of South Devon and Cornwall, and the Scilly Isles, have 
a softness and humidity of air which renders it valuable for all 
pulmonary diseases, except in persons of a very relaxed state of 
the body. Penzance is mild and equable, but damper than Fal- 
mouth. Bournemouth is a suitable resort for those of a relaxed 
constitution, and is delightfully bracing even in summer. Under- 
cliff is sheltered and warm, and Ventnor has the highest tempera- 
ture of any place in the kingdom. In the South of France, Pau 
is recommended for mildness, freedom from fog and cold sharp 
winds ; Hyeres is protected from northerly winds ; Nice is sub- 
ject to cold winds in the spring, but it is protected by the hills 
from northerly winds, and has a warm and rather exciting 
climate, suitable for early consumption. More advanced eases 
of consumption and other pulmonary diseases with very little 
expectoration would do better at Mentone. Madeira, the 
Canaries, the Bermudas, Algeria, and Egypt are suitable up to 
the end of April, and some patients may stay until the end of 
May. They should then return to one of our southern resorts for 
a month or two, and after June would do better inland or at one 
of the northerly health resorts. 

Pine Forests. — Aseptic air is less powerful and has a less 
curative effect upon suppurative processes, such as occur in 
consumptive patients with marked cavitation and much ex- 
pectoration, than air which is not only aseptic, but has that 
condition enhanced by the constant presence of an antiseptic 
material. All evergreen forests have a purifying effect upon the 
surrounding air by their exhalation of turpentine compounds. 
These form peroxide of hydrogen (a well-known antiseptic agent) 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 617 

and balsamic vapours, which have a decidedly soothing and 
curative effect. 

Sanatorium Treatment. — That climate and altitude are not 
certain to cure or produce immunity to tuberculosis is shown 
by the increasing number of deaths reported as originating in 
Colorado (a district where the disease was formerly unknown), 
and the fact that the death-rate from tubercular phthisis is little 
less in mountainous Norway than in the lowlands of Prussia or 
the Netherlands. The great number of patients who leave home 
for distant climates and die there, or return to do so, shows that 
change of climate is not infallible. On the other hand, the results 
of sanatorium treatment at home and abroad, in all kinds of 
country, shows that climatic treatment has been overrated. 
Many medical men now advise patients to go into sanatoria near 
home or to lead a sanatorium life at home. The chief points 
aimed at are — proper and abundant food, living constantly in the 
fresh air, regular habits of life, perfect hygiene, removal from a 
dust-laden atmosphere, and freedom from worry and business 
care. All these are essential points in the treatment of consump- 
tion, and are more important than mere change of climate. It is 
far better to lead a sanatorium life at home or in an adjacent 
country district than to continue to live in an impure atmosphere 
with other unhygienic conditions, combined with overwork, 
worry, and anxiety. Plenty of sunshine is very important ; the 
drier the atmosphere the better. Generous diet is better than 
forced feeding, and rest is better than excessive exercise. 

The Nottinghamshire Association for the Prevention of Con- 
sumption issued the following suggestions : 

' 1. Fresh Air. — Spend at least eight hours a day out of doors. 
Keep the bedroom and sitting-room windows wide open. Never 
sleep with them shut, however cold the weather. Draught is less 
dangerous than a stuffy room. Some draught is necessary to 
insure ventilation. Avoid crowded rooms, concerts, theatres, or 
public meetings. 

' 2, _Bes^.— Avoid violent exercise. At first sit or lie out of doors 
wrapped up and sheltered from the wind ; later on take gentle 
walks, and increase the distance each week. If the temperature 
goes up, the exercise is too much ; if it remains normal and the 
weight increases, gradually increase the exercise. Always rest 



618 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

after meals. Eunning, jumping, heavy and dusty work, are 
forbidden. 

' 3. Tlic temperature should be taken and recorded before 
breakfast, after dinner, and at bedtime. If it goes above 100° E. 
the patient should rest in bed nearly all day. 

' 4. The iveiglit should be taken and recorded once a week 

' 5. The Food. — Take ordinary full meals. Eat slowly. Drink 
2 or 3 pints of milk daily in addition. Avoid alcohol unless 
medically prescribed.' 

Exercise in the open air must be enjoined in all cases, care 
being taken to stop short of fatigue. Walking is probably the 
form of exercise best suited to the majority of persons. It 
increases the respiratory, circulatory, and muscular activities. 
Eiding and cycling may be indulged in to a moderate extent ; 
singing and breathing exercises, and in some cases gymnastics, 
are valuable for the development and expansion of the chest. 
Moderation must be strongly urged. Everything in the way of 
strain must be avoided. The slightest evidence of difficulty in 
breathing or palpitation of the heart should be a signal to stop. 
Great efforts in running, cycling, riding, dancing, and singing 
must be equally debarred, or there will surely follow an attack 
of spitting blood, bronchial catarrh, and such physical exhaustion 
as will be a prelude to the deposition or extension of tubercle. 
The physiological result of exercise is the removal of resistance 
to the circulation through the small bloodvessels, whence there 
is an increased arterial circulation, to the relief of venous conges- 
tion and diminution of the work of the heart. The heart is the 
origin of the circulation, and, like every other muscle, owes its 
vigour to the activity of the circulation through it. Inordinate 
exercise cripples the heart, but judicious exercise strengthens it. 

The following exercises for strengthening the heart and lungs 
are recommended by Knopfs : 

1. In front of an open window or out of doors, assume the 
military position of ' attention,' heels together, body erect, hands 
at side. With the mouth closed, take a deep inspiration, and 
whilst doing so raise the arms to a horizontal position. Eemain 
thus, holding the air in, for five or six seconds ; then bring the 
arms down to the side during expiration. 

2. The second exercise should not be begun until the first has 



TEEATMENT OF TUBEECULOSIS 619 

been practised for a few days. It simply consists in continuing 
to raise the arms till they meet overhead. 

3. After practising the former exercises twice a day for several 
weeks, take the same military position, stretch the arms out 
horizontally until they meet in front, take a full inspiration while 
doing so; then gradually move the arms bachvards until they 
meet behind the back, and remain so for a few seconds. This is 
a much more difficult exercise than the former, and is rendered 
more effective by rising on the toes during the act of inhaling 
and descending while exhaling. 

4. Eaise the shoulders and roll them backwards with a rotatory 
movement ; hold the breath a few seconds, then, while exhaling, 
roll the shoulders down and forwards into the normal position. 

5. Stand in the position of attention ; place the hands on the 
hi2)S with the thumbs forwards ; then bend slowly backward as 
far as possible while inhaling ; remain in that position for a few 
seconds while holding the breath ; resume the normal position 
during exhalation. The habit of stooping and rolling forward of 
the shoulders will be prevented or cured by this exercise. 

These or similar exercises can be taken by most patients, 
except when in the third stage of the disease. Perhaps Nos. 4 
and 5 should be left out by persons who have a hemorrhagic 
tendency. They should never be commenced when the patient 
is already fatigued, nor continued so long as to cause weariness. 
They should always be taken in an atmosphere as pure as 
possible. No restricting bands should be worn round the waist, 
and the mouth should be kept closed. If nasal breathing is not 
possible, an examination ought to be made for nasal polypi, 
adenoids, or other cause of obstruction, which should be removed. 

References: ^-Tlie Prevention of Tuberculosis,' by W. Tibbies {Detroit 
Medical Journal, January, 1904, from ^vhicll pp. 598 to 610 have been extracted 
and revised). " The Practitioner, April, 1906, p. 537. •' Zeit. fur Tuherk. unci 
Hcilstat., February, 1904. •* The Croonian Lectures on 'The Climatic Treatment 
of Phthisis,' by Sir Herman Weber. ^ American Medicine, July 11, 1903. 



620 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

CHAPTER XXVII 
THE HE A R T 

Violent exercise normally causes a change in the blood-pressure, 
and there is a temporary enlargement of the heart's area from 
dilatation or relaxation of that organ, and sometimes a murmur. 
Acute dilatation of the heart is rare in young men who are well 
trained, but it occurs in many people who over-exert themselves 
-when out of training. The chief result of training upon the 
heart is that it may produce an enlargement or hypertrophy. 
Habitual over-exertion will cause an irritable heart. Cardiac strain 
is liable to occur in youths who abuse tobacco or are addicted to 
other excesses. Tobacco-heart occurs in a good many people of 
a nervous or irritable disposition. Fatty overgrowth of the heart 
occurs in obese persons or results from excessive beer-drinking ; 
and many diseases, such as dilatation, valvular disease, and en- 
largement, occur in persons who are predisposed to them by 
previous conditions of the body. 

The life of people who suffer from affections of the heart should 
be free from strain, worry, and anxiety, either mental or physical. 
Mental emotion and sexual excitement are equally bad. All 
sports and athletics should be abandoned ; running, climbing, 
rowing, cycling, and hurrying, should be avoided. An endeavour 
must be made to maintain or improve the bodily condition. The 
diet should be light, nourishing, and easy to digest — soup, eggs, 
milk puddings, light fish, boiled mutton, poultry, pheasant, 
and vegetables such as spinach, cauliflower, vegetable marrow, 
squash, green peas, kidney beans, a little mashed potato, and 
other vegetables which have been made into a puree. The 
patient should avoid eating much bread, sweetened dishes, and 
other carbohydrate foods, excess of fat, and all heavy kinds of 
vegetable. Other kinds of food capable of causing flatulence, 
indigestion, or constipation must be avoided. On the other 
hand, those conditions should be relieved when they exist. 
Heavy meals must be avoided, for which reason ' dining out ' is 
practically tabooed, because anybody, without intending it, may 
readily consume much more than their ordinary quantity of food 



THE HEAET 621 

under the stimulus of company, wine, and excitement. It is 
better in most cases to have frequent small meals rather than 
three large meals a day ; but the last meal should be three hours 
before bedtime. Much tea or coffee should be eschewed, because 
an excess of them makes the heart irritable, causes palpitation, 
frequent pulse, and other signs of distress. On the other hand, 
a small quantity of any dietetic articles containing caffeine will 
strengthen and lengthen the contraction of the heart ; and it is 
usually considered that China tea is the best of these beverages. 
Alcohol ought to be avoided as a rule by these patients ; but for 
those with a dilated heart or in whom its sudden withdrawal 
might cause collapse, faintness, or other dangerous symptoms, 
we may allow some well-matured (eight or ten years old) 
Bordeaux, Moselle, or Ehine wine. In cases of loss of com- 
pensation and extreme feebleness of the heart, about -J ounce of 
genuine old brandy or whisky, diluted with 3 or 4 ounces of 
water, or about ] ounce of good old port wine, may be allowed ; 
but champagne and other aerated beverages are unsuitable 
because of the gas contained in them. The patient should not 
take a large quantity of soup, broth, or other meat extract. 
About a teacupful of soup at the beginning of dinner answers 
the purpose of stimulating the functions of the stomach. More 
than that amount would be an excess. It is not nutritious in 
proportion to the power of the meat extractives, especially of 
the purin class, to disturb the system. 

Drinking an excess of any kind of liuid is injurious, because 
it distends the bloodvessels, increases the blood-pressure, and 
over-taxes the heart. On the other hand, an insufficiency of 
liquid causes a great reduction in the blood-pressure and retards 
the excretion of waste materials. OerteV Balfour,- Von Noor- 
den,3 and others, believe that the damaged heart suffers from an 
excess of fluids in the body, owing to the diminished action of 
the skin and kidneys. They aim at reducing the amount of 
liquid in the bodily tissues by limiting the consumption of liquids 
to 15 ounces a day. At the same time, they give an albuminous 
diet which consists largely of eggs, and the action of the skin, 
kidneys, and lungs in excreting water is increased by walking, 
mountain-climbing, hot packs, and Eussian or Turkish baths. 
- Schott,^ Bezley Thorne, and other practitioners, on the other 



622 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

hand, believe the strict limitation of the amount of Hquids 
consumed to be not only useless, but harmful. They say the 
absence of water exercises an injurious influence on the kidneys, 
and causes an accumulation in the blood and tissues of the 
products of imperfect metabohsm ; that it induces arterial and 
capillary contraction, and increases resistance to the circulation 
in the small and narrow bloodvessels, whereby the heart is over 
taxed. They rightly limit the consumption of carbohydrate and 
advocate the free use of nitrogenous food, on the ground that 
the former supplies materials productive of fermentation in the 
stomach and bowels, with the generation of various acids and 
gases, and encourages the retention, if not the formation, of uric 
acid and other toxic materials. 

All vegetables hable to cause flatulence must be avoided, as 
dried peas, beans, and lentils ; cabbage, turnips, swedes, carrots, 
onions, leeks ; also new bread, pastry, cakes, hot buttered toast, 
crumpets, muffins, and pancakes. We may allow dry toast, the 
crust of rolls, zwiebach or pulled bread, and biscuits. Potatoes 
are permitted if simply boiled, mashed, or made into a puree, 
but baked potatoes are disallowed. Entrees, stews, and hashed 
meat are bad ; highly seasoned dishes, curry, and pickles, are not 
suitable : they irritate the gastric mucous membrane, cause thirst, 
and disturb the kidneys, thereby doing harm to a weakened heart. 
The worst spices are pepper, mustard, horseradish, and cayenne ; 
but cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and vanilla may also do harm by 
quickening the action of the heart. Indigestible fruit, such as 
currants, gooseberries, raspberries, blackberries, cranberries, pine- 
apple, and walnuts, Brazil and hazel nuts, are forbidden ; but 
oranges, pears, apples, apricots, plums, peaches, grapes (if stoned), 
raw or cooked, and stewed prunes or figs, are desirable and 
beneficial. As already stated, strong tea, coffee, beer, or alcohol 
in any form, and tobacco, are as a rule deleterious. When gastric 
catarrh arises, which is very probable, the diet should be pre- 
scribed for that disease. 

Senile Heart.— Dilatation as the result of weakness of the heart 
muscle occurs from many causes of debility, and is a marked 
feature of the senile heart.-' Loss of tone and vigour of this 
organ is very frequently the result of gastric troubles, and is 
followed by dropsy of the lower limbs and sometimes of the 



THE HEAET 623 

abdomen, because the heart has not sufficient power to circulate 
the fluids of the body in a proper manner. We have here an 
instance in which a more or less dry diet, as urged by Balfour, 
Oertel, and others, may be valuable. The diet should be spare ; 
it may consist of dry toast, biscuits, or zwiebach ; eggs, fish, 
meat, chicken, pheasant, sweet-bread or tripe ; a tablespoonful of 
mashed potato or spinach ; simple milk pudding, cooked fruit, 
such as apples or pears, or an equivalent amount of grapes, 
strawberries, ■ bananas, or tomatoes. The liquid should only 
amount to f pint a day, and may consist of a small cup of tea, 
coffee, or cocoa at breakfast and teatime, about half a wineglassful 
of wine at dinner, and 4 or 5 ounces of plain water without or 
with ^2 ounce of good brandy or whisky in the evening. The 
meals should be four and a half or five hours apart ; the midday 
meal should be the principal one ; no solid food should be taken 
with the afternoon cup of tea, and a light supper should be taken 
not later than 7 p.m. Those who are corpulent and flabby often 
find under this diet that their heart recovers tone, their weight 
diminishes, and their general health improves. But a reduction 
of the weight must only be cautiously adopted, and by no means 
be rapid. '^■' 

Graham Steele" and others have called attention to a condition 
in which the patients have symptoms of cardiac failure, such as 
shortness of breath on exertion, with some dropsy and venous 
congestion of the liver. An examination with the stethoscope 
reveals no evidence of heart disease, unless it be a strengthening 
of the second sound, or a lack of tone in the first or mitral sound, 
and an apex-beat which suggests enlargement of the heart. This 
departure from health does not originate in cardiac weakness, but 
from a derangement of metabolism. It causes an increase of 
arterial tension, and particularly an increased resistance in the 
small bloodvessels and capillaries, whereby an increased amount 
of work is thrown upon the heart. The heart becomes more or 
less enlarged in consequence, and would be overstrong for the 
work it would have to do in an average healthy individual ; but 
it is relatively weak for the work caused by the increased tension 
in the vessels. This condition is frequently met with in women 
who are going through ' the change,' but it occurs in other persons 
in whom the processes of metabolism are unevenly balanced. A 



624 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

proper regulation of the diet on the lines already indicated, 
especially reducing the consumption of starch and sugar, and 
living chieHy upon fresh meat and vegetables, v^ill materially 
benefit the patient. 

Arterial degenerations, arteriosclerosis and atheroma, are 
common in middle life and old age. They occur in advanced 
life without obvious cause, but earlier than this, in late middle 
life, they arise from alcoholic excesses, gout, Bright's disease, 
and various chronic blood diseases. In the senile form the 
arteries are seen to be tortuous, dilated, and rigid, with apparently 
perfect health ; in all other cases there are symptoms of the 
causative or complicating disease. It is known that an excess 
of meat after middle life will cause various troubles, of which 
degeneration of the bloodvessels is an indication. Metabolism 
is not so active after the middle period of life as before, and as 
much food is not required. The extractives of meat, fish, or 
game are changed into urea with more difficulty, and are not so 
readily excreted. The presence of such substances in the blood 
excites the muscular coat of the vessels to contract, whence there 
is an increased resistance to circulation. If the irritation is long 
continued, as in anyone who continues to eat meals in which 
meat and game figure very prominently, degenerative changes are 
liable to be produced in the coats of the bloodvessels, ending in 
arterio-sclerosis or atheroma. Similar changes also occur from 
the long-continued presence of other toxic materials in the blood. 
Eminent men have stated that if the heart and bloodvessels keep 
sound there is every reason to believe that any person may live to 
an advanced age, and that old age is very largely the result of the 
degenerative changes in the bloodvessels (see ' Diet in Old Age '). 

When such arterial degenerations are known to exist, great 
care should be exercised with regard to the diet. A mixed diet 
is the best ; but such foods only should be given which contain 
the least amount of purins and other toxins which are known to 
exist in flesh food.'^ '-* For this reason milk, eggs, milk puddings, 
and light fresh vegetables, with bread-and-butter, should form the 
staple food ; and a little well-cooked meat, fish, or poultry may 
be taken only with the midday meal. There should be a total 
prohibition of high game, pork, sausages, stewed or hashed meat, 
shellfish, lobster, crab, rich gravy or soup, and meat essences. 



THE HEAET 625 

The quantity of liquid taken daily slaould not be large ; on the 
other hand, an absolutely dry diet would be injurious. Milk 
taken without any other food for a few days together reheves the 
headache, insomnia, and restlessness from which these persons 
often suffer. 

In all diseased conditions of the heart and bloodvessels the 
complicating affections must be treated, especially albuminuria, 
liver disease, gastric catarrh, and obesity. 

In bad cases a change to a warm, dry, and equable climate 
is necessary for 'the winter. A place should be selected which 
has a fair amount of sunshine and level ground, so that out-of- 
door exercise can be taken by walking. When exercise is im- 
possible, fresh air must be obtained by being taken out in a 
carriage or invalid's chair. 

Baths. — As a general rule hot-water, Turkish or Russian baths 
must be avoided, although there are cases in which they have 
been beneficial. Warm baths and daily tepid sponging are very 
valuable by promoting the action of the skin and peripheral 
circulation. AlkaHne baths at Bath or Buxton, sulphur baths 
at Harrogate or Aix, salt baths at Nauheim, and baths of the 
mineral waters at many other places, are good. The temperature 
of the water should be below blood heat, and the patient carefully 
watched lest syncope occur. 

The Nauheim treatment consists of baths and exercises. Both 
can be carried out almost entirely in the patient's home, but they 
must be done under the supervision of a medical man, with the 
aid of an intelligent attendant. The method was introduced by 
the brothers Schott at Nauheim on the Taunus, near Frankfort- 
on-the-Maine, where a large number of people go annually for 
treatment from May to September. It was brought to English 
notice by Wetherhed,!** Bezley Thorne.^i Smyly,i- Saundby.^^ 
and others. The cases suitable for treatment are those of dilata- 
tion, and lesions of the valves where compensation has broken 
down. The treatment is directed to improve the circulation 
through the small bloodvessels and spaces, by means of thermal, 
alkaline, or saline baths, and a system of gentle exercises. 

The Baths. — The medicinal waters of Nauheim are derived 
from various springs, some of them being drunk and others 
used for bathing. The latter contain 2 or 3 per cent, of chlorides 

40 



626 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

of lime and soda, a little carbonate of iron, and some carbonic 
acid. The drinking - waters contain other alkaline salts in 
addition. A course of the baths is begun by using a water which 
contains about 1 per cent, of the chlorides at a temperature of 92° F. 
to 95° R, and the patient remains in it about six or eight minutes, 
and rests an hour after each bath. Stronger water is used on 
successive days, the temperature of the bath being gradually 
lowered, but its duration increased up to twenty or thirty 
minutes ; the later baths consist of water charged with carbonic 
acid gas. The immediate effect of the baths is a reduction in 
the rate of the pulse, with a corresponding increase in the force 
and tension and a decrease in the area of cardiac dulness. This 
effect lasts for a variable time ; at first it disappears rather soon 
and gives way to a return of the former condition, but the 
improvement lasts longer and longer as the course of baths goes 
on. Leichtenstern says salt baths containing carbonic acid are 
a tonic of the first rank for a weak heart. The heart which was 
formerly irregular in action, and wearing itself out by unusually 
frequent and fruitless contractions, is strengthened ; the contrac- 
tion is prolonged, the heart is more completely emptied, and the 
pause lengthened ; along with these effects the removal of fatigue 
products is favoured, and the nutrition as well as the tone of the 
heart's muscle improved. 

The baths can be artificially prepared, and Mr. Armstrong, of 
Buxton, ^^ formulated the following proportion for each bath con- 
sisting of 40 gallons of water : 

Bath No. 1 : Sodic cUoride 4 pounds, calcium chloride 6 ounces. 
Bath No. 2 : Sodic chloride 5 pounds, calcium chloride 8 ounces. 
Bath No. 3 : Sodic chloride 6 pounds, calcium chloride 10 ounces, sodium 

bicarbonate 6 ounces, hydrochloric acid 7 ounces. 
Bath No. 4 : Sodic chloride 7 pounds, calcium chloride 10 ounces, sodium 

bicarbonate 8 ounces, hydrochloric acid 12 ounces. 
Bath No. 5 : Sodic chloride 9 pounds, calcium chloride 11 ounces, sodium 

bicarbonate 16 ounces hydrochloric acid 24 ounces, 
Bath No. 6 : Sodic chloride 11 pounds, calcium chloride 12 ounces, sodium 

bicarbonate 24 ounces, hydrochloric acid 40 ounces. 

The first four are strong enough for most cases, passing from one 
strength of bath to a higher, after using the previous one for a 
few days. 

The exercises consist of gently resisted movements ; that is to 
say, the patient is directed to make certain movements, which 



THE HEAET 627 

the nurse or attendant slightly resists. The exercises last from 
twenty to sixty minutes, short intervals of rest being allowed, 
and the resistance being gradually increased as the treatment 
proceeds. The following details must be observed : (1) Each 
exercise should be performed slowly and evenly. (2) No exercise 
is to be repeated twice successively. (3) Each movement should 
be followed by an interval of rest. (4) The attendant must watch 
the patient's face for the slightest indication of (a) dilatation of 
the nostrils, (h) drawing of the corners of the mouth, (c) duskiness 
or pallor of the lips or cheeks, (d) yawning, (e) sweating, (/) pal- 
pitation, (g) shortness or quickness of breathing. Should any 
of these signs appear, they must be regarded as signals to 
immediately stop the exercises and give the patient an interval 
of rest, the limbs meanwhile being supported. (5) Should the 
patient show any sign of difficulty in breathing or hold his 
breath, he should be directed to breathe regularly and uninter- 
ruptedly, which will be assisted by his counting slowly in a 
whisper during the exercise. (6) No portion of the body or limb 
to be moved should be constricted so as to impede the circulation 
or respiration. The exercises are as follows. The patient stands, 
and the movement is resisted by the attendant. At first the 
resistance is so gentle that it is scarcely perceptible, but it is 
gradually increased as the improvement in the patient's condition 
is observed : 

1. Arms extended in front of the body on a level with the 
shoulder, the hands meeting ; the arms are carried outwards in a 
horizontal plane as far as possible, and back to the original 
position. 

2. Arms hang at sides with palms forwards ; flex the arms one 
at a time until the fingers touch the tip of the shoulder ; back to 
the original position. 

3. Arms down, palms forward ; carry the arms outward and 
upward until the hands meet overhead ; back to the original 
position. 

4. Hands rest one in the other at front of the abdomen ; raise 
the arms until the hands rest on top of the head; back to the 
original position. 

5 Arms down, palms against thighs ; raise the arms in parallel 
lines as high as possible over the head ; back to original position. 

40—2 



628 . FOOD AND HYGIENE 

6. Standing erect, bend the body on the hips, and back to 
the original position. 

7. Eotate the body to the left, then to the right ; return to 
original position. 

8. Bend the body laterally, both sides alternately. 

9 and 10. Eepeat the exercises 1 and 2 with the hands 
clenched. 

11. Arms downs, palms forward ; in turn, raise each arm forward 
and upward until it is against the ear ; turn the limb outwards as 
far as possible; return both arms together to original position. 

12. x\rms down, palms against the thighs ; move both arms 
backwards together, as far as possible in parallel planes, without 
bending the trunk. 

13. With the hands resting on a chair, bend each thigh upon 
the body. 

14. With hand on chair, let each lower extremity in turn be 
extended as far as possible backwards and forwards. 

15. With both hands on chair, let each leg in turn be drawn 
up as far as possible. 

16. With hands on chair and both feet placed together, let each 
leg in turn be put outwards as far as possible from the middle 
line. 

17. With both arms extended horizontally outwards, let each 
arm be twisted at the shoulder-joint, backwards and forwards to 
the utmost limit. 

18. Let each hand in turn, be extended and flexed on the fore- 
arm to the utmost limit. 

19. Let each foot in turn be extended and flexed to the extreme 
limit ; return to original position. 

Groebel prescribed similar exercises for heart cases, but added 
to them massage of the limbs, back, and particularly of the region 
of the heart. The effects of such exercises are very similar to 
those of the baths. The chief difficulty in practising them is to 
regulate the resistance offered by the attendant. They produce 
a reduction in the area of the heart's dulness, the apex-beat 
changes its position, and the rate and strength of the heart is 
improved. Dilatation disappears, compensation becomes estab- 
lished, albuminuria and dropsy have vanished. Sir Philip 
Smyly^^ says: 'The movements relieve the backward pressure 



THE HEAET 629 

on the heart ; there is a diminution in the size of the heart, 
owing to the absence of an excess of blood in its cavities ; this 
is attained by there being more room in the arteries ; the heart 
muscle gains strength by having more room to contract ; the 
contraction being more complete, it takes a longer time, thus 
making the pulse slower and fuller. Being able to send on more 
blood, the heart receives more, and thereby removes venous 
congestion. The strength gained by the heart is due to the 
freedom to contract fully.' 

Professor Schott maintains that the treatment acts on the 
heart through the nervous system by evoking a reflex influence 
which stimulates the regulating nerves. Sir W. Broadbent be- 
lieved the primary and principal effect to be on the circulation 
through the small vessels and capillaries. Dr. Bezley Thorne 
says the baths and exercises alike favour the circulation by 
dilating the small arteries of the muscles and skin, and thus 
relieving the backward pressure on the heart ; ' the results are 
such as would scarcely be beheved except by an eye-witness. It 
is by no means uncommon in cases of dilatation to see within 
one hour the oblique diameter of the heart's area of dulness 
diminished by from | to IJ inches, and to observe as much as 
2 inches of diminution in the vertical measurement of the liver ; 
to hear the patient volunteer the statement after the exercises 
that a load has been lifted from the precordia, that he breathes 
more easily and deeply, and experiences a sense of general relief. 
Such gains are not permanent, and in the time that intervenes 
before the next day's exercises or baths the dilated and congested 
organs tend to resume their former size, but do not wholly 
relapse. A slight proportion of the gaiu is held until, at the end 
of a few weeks' treatment, the dilated heart and congested liver 
have recovered their normal dimensions, or such contraction and 
compensatory power in the one case and resolution in the other 
as to make them practically sound. '^'^ 

The only conditions which contra-indicate the exercises are 
aneurism or extensive disease (atheroma or arterio-sclerosis) of 
the vessels. Improvement amounting to a practical cure is 
recorded in many cases of insufiiciency of the valves, contraction 
of the orifices, dilatation of the chambers, with either of the 
foregoing or consequent upon disease of the heart muscle ; fre- 



630 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

quent haemorrhage or anaemia ; fatty heart, weakened heart ; 
congenital defects, and angina pectoris of nervous or organic 
origin. The benefit is derived in all these cases from dilatation 
of the blood capillaries, lymph channels, and lymph spaces, by 
which means the peripheral circulation is improved and a larger 
area provided for the circulating fluids. The muscular contrac- 
tions which take place during the exercises empty the veins, 
secure better filling of the arteries, and stimulate the contraction 
of the heart. The left side of the heart contracting with greater 
force and being better emptied, relieves the back pressure upon 
the pulmonary circulation, in consequence of which the right 
heart contracts better, the veins are thereby emptied, and visceral 
congestion and dropsy are removed. 

It is the practice at Nauheim to supplement the cure by sending 
people to climb gradients at one of the higher health resorts in 
the Taunus, Black Forest, or Switzerland. This is known, how- 
ever, not to be without danger ; but it may be safe enough for 
hearts which have been strengthened by a graduated course of 
treatment at Nauheim, and it has strong advocates in Schott, 
Oertel, and Stokes. The latter, when writing of fatty heart, 
says : ' We must train the patient gradually to give up luxurious 
habits ; he must pursue a course of graduated muscular exercises ; 
and, if this is persevered in, he may be able to take with pleasure 
and advantage an amount of exercise which was at first totally 
impossible, owing to difficulty in breathing.' It is obviously more 
proper for young and middle-aged persons than for those in 
advanced hfe. The symptoms of cardiac debility are often 
removed by a course of gymnastics or pedestrian exercises in the 
Highlands of Scotland, Ireland, Switzerland, or other places. 

Refekences : 1 Oertel, the Lancet, July 16, 1904. - Balfour, Min. Med. 
Jour., June, 1891. ^ Von Noorden, ' Disorders of Metabolism and Nutrition,' 
parti'v. ^ Schott, the Lancet, July 16,1904. « Balfour, loc. cit. ^ Schott, 
Deutsch. Med. Woch., July 5 and 12, 1894. " Graham Steele, the Medical 
Chronicle. « Russell, Brit. Med. Jour., 1904, i., 1297. " Byron Bramwell, 
2-6zrf.,1895, i., 535. ^'"^ Ibid., 1895, ii., 1045. " The Lancet, 1894, i., 1117. 
12 The Duhlin Bevieu- of Medical Science, September, 1894. ^^ Brit. Med. Joitr., 
1895, ii., 1082. " Ibid. ^^ Loc cit. " Brit. Med. Jour., 1895, i., 524. 



THE NBEVES 631 

CHAPTEE XXVIII 
THE NERVES 

There are millions of nerve cells in a human body having an 
independent life and work. Each is a sort of battery which 
generates nerve force when the cell is stimulated, and sends it 
along the connecting fibres in the nerves. Nerve force is a real 
thing, a manifestation of power which can be measured ; it is 
manufactured in the cells by the transformation of pre-existing 
energy. The force exists potentially in the food ; each nerve cell 
contains food granules, and it transforms the potential energy of 
the food into the kinetic manifestations of nerve force. Food and 
time to transform it into nerve force are therefore proper means 
of restoring weakened and debilitated nerve cells. 

It has been shown by experiment that the nerves undergo 
changes during activity which can be recognised under the micro- 
scope. The changes consist of loss of substance and an alteration 
in the appearance and constitution of the nerve cells. When in 
proper working order, nerve cells are full, regular in shape, and 
of granular appearance ; but when exhausted they are shrunken 
and shrivelled. Under proper conditions, with rest and nutriment, 
the exhausted cells recover their regular outline and granular 
appearance ; whereby we are taught that the purpose of rest and 
sleep is to enable the nerve cells to become recharged with 
material and to be recruited for another day of activity.^ Within 
certain limits the nerve cells become exhausted during the day, 
and recharged during the night or period of rest, which we call 
physiological. But when these limits are passed, and the ability 
to recoup and recharge themselves is absent, we have a patho- 
logical condition, nervous exhaustion, nervous debility, or neuras- 
thenia. In this condition the cells lack the power to recover from 
exhaustion, to become recharged, or to transform potential into 
kinetic energy. It is manifested in many nervous diseases, but is 
likewise a disease sui generis. 

Neurasthenia. — No two personal constitutions are exactly 
alike ; ail vary in force, capacity, and ability to recuperate after 



632 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

a strain. The persons most liable to neurasthenia are those with 
a highly organized nervous system, highly strung individuals who 
respond to very slight stimulation. The conditions of modern 
life, educational, commercial, social, and political, are such as to 
force people with ambition to their greatest efforts, thereby over- 
loading the nervous system. There is a ceaseless struggle for 
supremacy in social, professional, and political life. This cease- 
less activity, anxiety, and overwork, especially when combined 
with excesses or bad habits, exhausts the nervous and vital forces, 
and a nervous breakdown or neurasthenia is the consequence. 
This condition is a result of advancing civilization, for it is quite 
unknown among the native races of uncivilized countries. ^ It is 
necessary, therefore, that all people should have a judicious con- 
cern for rest in order to obtain recuperation, strength, and vigour 
of the nervous system. It is only by the adoption of proper 
means that they can retain a clear head, or a strong mind and 
nerves. The brain requires regular and complete replenishment 
to repair it, just as the batteries and wires of a telephonic system 
require attention. Oppression wears down the brain and nerves, 
and makes many neuropathic victims ; many nervous systems are 
wrecked in the home, in warehouses, and other places of business, 
through commercial strain or the selfish disregard to the limits of 
nerve power. Both sexes are liable to neurasthenia. An hereditary 
tendency to nerve diseases predisposes to it. Many nervous 
systems which are free from hereditary taint will bear the stress 
and strain of modern life without exhaustion, or they quickly 
recuperate ; but when there is a neurotic taint slight apparent 
causes may induce neurasthenia. It may also follow typhoid 
fever, influenza, and other infectious diseases in which the general 
nutrition is disturbed ; it occurs as the result of gastro-enteric 
catarrh and other conditions in which there is a state of general 
subnutrition. Constitutional changes, like the climacteric in 
women, have the same effect. The absorption or development in 
the body of various toxins, and the habitual abuse of tea, coffee, 
alcohol, or tobacco, likewise interferes with the nutrition of the 
nerve cells. Shock, injury, and many other things will also cause 
neurasthenia in a person who is the subject of nervous instability. 
The pathology is indefinite : either the nerve cells receive an 
insufficient amount of nutriment, or their power to assimilate and 



THE NEEVES 633 

transform it into nerve force is very defective. The nerve cells, 
which become shrivelled like the salivary cells after prolonged 
stimulation, have not the povs^er to promptly recuperate. The 
disease is a mental and nervous condition resulting from this 
degree of fatigue ; the nervous system is unstable. A similar 
instability of the nervous system occurs in other diseases, such 
as hysteria and hypochondria. In neurasthenia it is shov\m by 
great exhaustion following comparatively slight mental or physical 
work — a disproportion between the work done and the resulting 
exhaustion. In hysteria it shows itself by excessive emotion 
resulting from a slight cause — a great disproportion between the 
cause of the emotion and the effect. In hypochondria it is shown 
by abnormal introspection ; the exciting cause, which is often 
really small, produces abnormal worry, fear, and mental depres- 
sion. ^ Each is a separate ailment, but they frequently overlap in 
the same person, and continued observation may be necessary to 
make the diagnosis certain. 

Prophylaxis. — The proper control of children from infancy 
would be effective in reducing the amount of nervous disorders 
in the world. When children are spoiled, or are not subjected to 
discipline and trained in obedience, a foundation is laid for many 
nervous troubles in later life. ' Spare the rod and spoil the child ' 
is an adage as true to-day as it ever was. All parents may not 
agree with the necessity for corporeal punishment ; but it is abso- 
lutely necessary that habits of obedience, punctuality, regularity, 
and promptness be inculcated ; above all, control of the passions 
is essential to make a mens sana in corpore sano. The term 
' spoiling the children ' is correct. Loose discipline spoils the 
nerves, encourages the passions, and destroys the effect of other 
training. As an instance of good discipline, we have only to refer 
to the army and navy, where, from rude, unpolished, and prac- 
tically useless units, there is produced a body of men which forms 
an admirable machine, the units of which are most adaptable to 
circumstances, most easily controlled, most obedient, and the most 
efficient in carrying out the orders of a superior.* 

Grown-up persons must endeavour to reduce friction in their 

* ' It is rather by the exercise of a wise firmness, free from irritation, of 
moderate discipline, mental as well as bodily, and by association with healthy 
minds, that the atonic or loosely coupled faculties must be strengthened' (' Pre- 
vention of Nervous Disease.' the Lancet, 1887, ii., 672). 



634 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

commercial, domestic, social, and political life. They must avoid 
running at too high a pressure ; must give time for recuperation 
after exhausting rounds of work or pleasure by frequent intervals 
of rest and repose, as week-end holidays. These week-end holi- 
days should be genuine periods of rest, and not merely a change 
of place, which they threaten to become. They must avoid an 
excess of luxury, excitement, worry, passion, anxiety, late hours, 
unsuitable food, stimulants and anodynes. 

Curative measures consist primarily in removing the cause and 
treating complications. Excesses must be corrected, over-work 
and over-pleasure must be checked, rest must be enjoined with 
freedom from worry and mental strain. The digestive, genera- 
tive, and other organs must be treated if any real disease exists. 
This treatment will be materially aided by a course of diet, baths, 
massage, and electricity. 

Diet. — Neurasthenia is a disease of subnutrition ; the nerve 
cells are unable to assimilate nutriment or to convert latent into 
kinetic force. Most patients are thin — even when they eat well 
they do not gain weight or strength— but others are fat and flabby. 
The wisest course in most cases is to begin the treatment by 
putting the patient on a diet consisting chiefly of milk for a few 
days ; 4 or 6 pints a day are necessary. Many patients fancy the 
milk disagrees with them ; others consider the bulk is a great 
deal too much for them, but by giving it in small and divided 
doses they are usually able to take it, and it soon becomes accept- 
able to them when they are unable to get the numerous luxurious 
articles of food which they may have been accustomed to play 
with. Eat is an exceedingly important article of diet, and is 
readily obtained through the milk ; but the quantity can be in- 
creased by putting additional cream into it. We must, however, 
gradually add other food to this diet — -e.g., a poached egg with a 
little bread-and-butter for breakfast, a little steamed fish or a chop 
in the middle of the day, and bit by bit build up a dietary similar 
to the following : 

Breakfast should consist of two boiled eggs or two chops, or a 
piece of steak with bread-and-butter, oatmeal or maize porridge ; 
15 ounces of milk to drink ; and fruit as desired Fruit must be 
taken only as dessert ; care should be exercised that it is not con- 
sumed to the exclusion of other articles. 



THE NEEVES 635 

Lunch should consist of a tumblerful of milk. 

Dinner, about 1.30, roast beef, mutton, poultry, or game, 6 to 
8 ounces ; a little potato and bread ; boiled vegetables, such as 
cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, marrow, boiled onions, 
asparagus, artichokes, sweet potatoes, green peas or beans. Milk 
pudding, or stewed fruit with cream ; | pint of milk to drink. 

Tea, a light meal of bread-and-butter, with honey, marmalade, 
watercress, celery, tomato, green onions, lettuce, or a similar vege- 
table ; two teacupfuls of China tea, with plenty of cream in it, 
or made with boiling milk instead of water. 

Supper, 8 p.m., oatmeal or maize porridge, or boiled bread and 
milk, or milk pudding ; fish or tripe with boiled onions ; bread- 
and-butter freely ; f pint of milk. 

Bed-time, a final glass of milk while undressing. 

No tea, colifee, cocoa, alcohol, or other stimulant is allowable 
(except China tea) ; but the patient must consume 3 or 4 pints of 
milk daily. 

Weir Mitchell's treatment is very successful for females. It 
consists in removing the patient entirely from her friends ; she is 
isolated, and only visited by her doctor and nurse until very 
marked improvement is made ; the receipt of or sending letters 
to her friends should be prevented. She is kept in bed for a month 
or longer, during which period she is fed abundantly (which the 
patient may resist), and thoroughly massaged and galvanized 
daily to overcome the evils of rest and high feeding. During the 
first week in bed the diet consists chiefly of milk, advancing from 
a quart on the first day to 4 to 5 pints on the eighth ; it is given 
in divided doses, 2 to 10 ounces every two hours day and night. 
About the tenth day a mutton chop, a fried sole, or a boiled 
egg, with bread-and-butter, is added ; two days later \ pint of 
soup. On the fifteenth or sixteenth day she should be able to take 
three full meals consisting of soup, fish, meat, vegetables, stewed 
fruit, and cream, besides 2 quarts of milk a day. The treatment 
is to be continued for six to twelve weeks, according to the severity 
of the case. The patient is only allowed to get out of bed to 
empty the bowels and bladder. Massage is begun after the first 
few days, being performed for an hour, but gradually increased 
to three hours daily, and continued to the end of the treatment. 
Electricity is used for half an hour daily. To insure the con- 



636 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

sumption of food, it is necessary that a nurse or attendant 
should always be at the bedside, or even feed her with it. It is 
remarkable what tricks the patient will sometimes play to induce 
a belief that she has consumed her food, and what means she will 
find to dispose of it when the nurse's back is turned. The nurse 
and medical attendant must therefore be very firm, although of 
a kind and sympathetic nature. There is always a considerable 
increase in the patient's size and weight, but some of it is lost 
after the treatment is abandoned. When this treatment is 
properly carried out the cure is usually complete and permanent. 
Weir Mitchell says :* ' I have watched again and again, with 
growing surprise, some listless, feeble, white-blooded creature 
learning by degrees to eat these large rations, and gathering 
under their use flesh, colour, and wholesomeness of mind and 
body.' Playfair^ says there are limitations to the Weir Mitchell 
treatment ; it is unsuitable for any form of organic disease of the 
nervous system ; it should never be applied to any marked case 
of mental disease, as melancholy and other types of insanity, 
whether hysteria be a phenomenon or not ; but there are many 
' borderland ' cases where it may be of great service. In all cases 
it must be done thoroughly or not at all. 

When entire rest is not indicated, the patient should go to bed 
earlier at night and lie longer in the morning. Eest is strongly 
recommended for the majority of cases, but change of air and 
company are beneficial for others ; and moderate work or pleasant 
exercise in the form of tennis, badminton, croquet, hockey, golf, 
cricket, riding, cycling, rowing, skating, tobogganing, in all cases 
stopped short of fatigue, assists in the ultimate cure. Summer 
resorts like Malvern, Harrogate, Ilkley, the moors and hills of 
Yorkshire, Cumberland, and Scotland ; winter resorts, as the 
Alps, Tyrol, and other places, especially where ski-ing and tobog- 
ganing are to be had, are exceedingly useful ; also Nice, Algeria, 
Egypt, and, in England, Clifton, Brighton, Bournemouth. The 
sea air does not agree with many nervous cases. A dry 
inland climate suits them much better. 

In Hysteria *^ ' the patient may be bodily ill, but the disease 
principally affects the nervous system. It involves the higher 
functions of the brain, the will and judgment, and is accompanied 



THE NEEVES 637 

by an instability of the emotions. It chiefly affects females. A 
slight cause moves the patient to excessive grief, joy, tears, or 
laughter, which she has little power to control. There is an 
excessive desire for sympathy, which leads to the artificial pro- 
duction of symptoms and lesions. What are called ' hysterical 
fits ' are always caused by emotional excitement ; the movements 
differ from those of epilepsy, and the consciousness is not wholly 
lost. Some symptoms are the same as in neurasthenia. There 
are fatigue sensations, such as headache, and pain in the back or 
limbs. There may be disturbances of the motor or sensory 
nerves, such as flushes of heat or coldness, throbbing, burning, 
itching, tingling, trembling, numbness, and loss or increase of 
sensation in some part. Motor symptoms occur, such as loss 
of voice, difficulty in swallowing, partial or complete paralysis 
of a limb. The nutrition of the muscles may be good, although 
they sometimes waste, and the reflexes and electrical relations 
may be normal. There is loss of mental power, loss of spon- 
taneity and power to concentrate the thoughts ; mental irritability 
is increased, the patient is easily startled, easily worried, dreads 
to be alone, and may have a fear of death. Sexual weakness 
always has an exaggerated importance. There may be gastric 
catarrh, enteric catarrh, mucous colitis, and other diseases. 

The treatment must consist of physical and moral methods. 
The diet should consist of milk, cream, eggs, meat, poultry, 
vegetables, good bread-and-butter, milk puddings, and fruit ; 
plenty of liquids, to aid in their digestion and assimilation, and 
to flush the skin and kidneys. A good plain diet should be the 
rule ; the meals regular, and not too far apart. Everything must 
be avoided which is likely to upset the digestive apparatus (see 
' Indigestion,' ' Gastric Catarrh,' etc.). Salted meat is not so good 
as fresh meat or fish, because some of the nutritive juices go into 
the brine and are lost, and the fibres are harder of digestion. 
Tea, coffee, alcohol, and all other stimulants, are best avoided. 
Fish is believed to be aphrodisiac, wherefore it should be 
excluded from the diet of any who may have an erotic 
tendency. 

Fresh air and out-of-door exercise are important. Tennis, 
croquet, hockey, golf, cycling, walking, skating, ski-ing, and 
tobogganing are suitable. Cycling sometimes causes an excite- 



638 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

ment of the sexual organs, for which reason it may be tabooed. 
The vacancy and ennui of a dull and unoccupied life favours 
hysteria and habits of introspection ; therefore a regular occupa- 
tion should be found. School life is good for girls, providing 
the hours are short and the tasks light. In all cases work and 
study should stop short of fatigue. 

Baths and douches are very good ; the water should be about 
80° or 85° F., neither hot nor cold; the spine maybe douclied 
with plain water or sea-salt and water. Sea air and sea bathing 
are probably too exciting for the majority of cases ; but change 
of air to Clifton, Malvern, Tunbridge Wells, Ilkley, Harrogate, 
and many places on the Continent, may do very much good. 
General massage is not good for a large majority of the cases ; 
but local massage, when combined with baths, douches, and 
electricity, is good for muscular contractions, paralyses, and 
hysterical joints. Kemove and put away bandages, crutches, 
invalid chairs, et hoc genus omne. 

Moral treatment is very important. Forbid all reading of an 
imaginative or sensational kind, and especially of an erotic 
tendency, such as novels, certain poetical works, and sensational 
newspaper accounts of people's doings. Encourage the reading 
of history, biography, travels, geography, light scientific reading, 
and selected stories. Forbid theatres, music halls, and other 
exciting performances. Good music may be encouraged, especially 
that of a soft and soothing character, and may be made the means 
of occupying time for a few hours daily. Organ music is said 
to be injurious, because of the working of the pedals and the 
penetrating nature of the sounds ; and the same may also be 
urged against playing the violin, except by skilled hands. 
Patients who are subject to the erotic form of hysteria are often 
to be pitied. They are frequently women of refined education 
and environment of the wealthy and leisurely classes who have 
opportunity to give rein to their emotions and passions, and have 
not the steadying influence which comes from regular and com- 
pulsory occupation. They frequently fix their affections and 
desires upon prominent persons or those socially beneath them. 
It is absolutely necessary that these persons should be put upon 
a somewhat spare diet, with very little animal food and without 
fish or oysters. They should be found some occupation, either 



THE NEEVES 639 

philanthropic, literary, artistic, musical, or in carving, modelling, 
etc, , which will occupy their time and allow them little room for 
thoughts about other matters. Youug men may become erotic. 
Such an individual sometimes fancies himself to be the object of 
love by many women, but he is extremely bashful and distressed 
by the looks and glances of the opposite sex whom he meets in 
the streets, cars, or other public places. Sometimes he imagines 
they make signs or gestures to him ; these he interprets into 
notes of love and admiration, which distress him and he has 
not the courage to reciprocate. The distorted minds of such 
people should be sheltered from all allurements of vice, from 
accounts of vice and immorality in newspapers, novels, poems, 
pictures, and all other forms. Inquiry should be made into the 
existence of possible sexual irregularities or causes of irritability 
in either sex, such as phimosis, stone in the bladder, ovarian 
or menstrual troubles, and constipation ; the latter, by causing 
pressure upon the nerves and vessels of the genital organs, will 
increase such mental phases and seminal emissions or ovarian 
excitement. The bashful, timid man may be encouraged to 
marry ; the robust, plethoric girl with unsatisfied desires may be 
found a husband ; but care should be taken that the family 
history is good, for if ill-health is combined with hysteria marriage 
may cause lifelong misery. 

Epilepsy spares neither sex nor race, but it occurs most 
frequently in persons who have an hereditary taint of epilepsy 
or other nervous disease. Excesses of all kinds increase the 
liability to it in people whose nervous system is unstable. A 
carefully regulated life, with freedom from excesses and excite- 
ment, is the best preventative in those who have a tendency to it, 
Alcoholism causes it very frequently. Alcoholic epilepsy is largely 
on the increase. This is a nervous disease with distinct symptoms 
due to the toxic effects of alcohol, which induces sudden attacks 
of an explosive or convulsive nature. Irhe warning which these 
symptoms present should not be neglected by the alcoholic, 
for it is ominous of future trouble ; but the prognosis and treat- 
ment is hopeful if the drinking habit is ahandoned. There is 
another way in which auto-intoxication is connected with epilepsy ; 
the epileptic attack is frequently preceded for a few days by a 



640 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

diminution in the excretion of urea,^ which is markedly evident in 
ureemic convulsions. 

An epileptic seizure is a violent discharge of nerve force, which 
results in convulsions and usually loss of consciousness. The 
nerve cells store up their energy during an interval, and appear 
to become overloaded. It is often observed before the fit that 
the patient was never better in his life. But the nerve cells 
are very unstable, and from some excitement or stimulus, or 
even without it, they discharge their energy with terrific violence. 
The pathology is not very clear, but a degeneration has been 
observed in the nucleus of the nerve cells, and there is an over- 
growth of the indifferent tissues, such as the neuroglia and the 
coverings of the brain and nerves. Mental degeneration and 
moral degradation unfortunately often go on together. There is 
a loss of mental power and activity ; the patient is apt to become 
lying and deceitful, crafty and cunning ; at the same time there 
is loss of self-control, fits of anger or violence are common, and 
criminal tendencies or abnormal ambition may develop. 

The treatment is mainly dietetic and hygienic. The food 
should be light, nutritious, and easily digested : bread-and-butter, 
milk, milk puddings, oatmeal or maize porridge, eggs, light 
kinds of fish, and a little meat (not more than 2 or 3 ounces 
a day for an adult), with plenty of cooked vegetables and fruit. 
Indigestion must be avoided, heavy suppers must be forbidden, 
and large meals are never good for the patient. The epileptic 
condition is decidedly aggravated by errors in diet, by bolting 
the food, and by an excess of meat. Some practitioners assert 
that epileptic children improve upon a vegetarian diet with milk, 
but do badly while they have any meat. Fresh vegetables and 
fruit are always valuable, and a imrin-free diet may be the means 
of keeping the fits at bay for a long time. Strong tea, coffee, and 
alcohol are injurious. Excesses of every kind must be watched 
for and checked. Baths, douches, and massage are serviceable. 

During the status epilepticus, epileptic coma, or prolonged 
unconsciousness which sometimes follows the fits, the patient 
must be fed with milk, egg and milk, or beef-tea, when necessary, 
by means of a tube passed through the nose into the gullet, or by 
nutrient enemata. 

The life of such patients should be regular, well ordered, and 
free from excitement. Living in the country or an out-of-door 



THE NERVES 641 

occupation is the best for them. Colony life is suitable for 
epileptics ; much good is being done amongst them at Chalfont 
in Buckinghamshire, Craig Colony in New York, and other places. 
Habits of cleanhness and moral education are important. Epileptic 
children should have ordinary education suited to their position 
in life, but heavy tasks and work which is beyond their powers 
are tabooed. They should go slowly but regularly, and ought not 
to be encouraged to compete with others for prizes or scholarships. 

Apoplexy and Sunstroke. — Apoplexy usually occurs in persons 
whose bloodvessels have become degenerated, and especially 
when they are atheromatous. Men are oftener attacked than 
women, but a short, thick neck and broad shoulders need not 
be taken as an indication of an apoplectic constitution, for there 
is no such thing. During the apoplectic fit or stroke no food 
can be given by the mouth until consciousness is recovered, 
and probably no harm will result from the patient being a day or 
two without food. The patient may, however, be fed per rectum 
with peptonized milk, egg and milk, or beef-tea ; and the demand 
of the system for water may be satisfied by injecting into the 
bowels through a long tube a pint of plain warm water or saline 
solution two or three times a day. When the inflammatory 
stage of reaction has subsided, we may give a light and unstimu- 
lating diet, consisting chiefly of milk, eggs, bread-and-butter, the 
farinaceous materials, puree of vegetables, consomme, spinach, 
vegetable marrow, and occasionally a little light fish or chicken. 
When the patient is well excepting the paralysis, he may be sent 
to a hydropathic establishment for a course of waters, douches, 
massage, and electricity, or the same may be carried out at home 
as far as possible. It behoves the person who has had one 
attack of apoplexy to be extremely abstemious in diet for the 
future. He must not continue to eat, drink, and make merry 
as if he were in the prime of life, or another stroke will speedily 
be upon him. Let him avoid alcohol, strong tea or cofi'ee, rich 
and sweet dishes, fat meat, pork, veal, beef, and mutton, and 
live chiefly upon milk, farinaceous materials, milk puddings, eggs, 
light fish and poultry, green vegetables and ripe fruit. If he 
also keep free from excitement, worry, and strain of every kind, 
he may possibly pass the rest of his days in safety. 

41 



642 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Sunstroke or heat apoplexy is a trouble which occurs in very 
hot weather, and especially in hot climates, and, when recovered 
from, is a frequent forerunner of serious nerve trouble. It is a 
paralysis of all the functions of the brain, coming on slowly or 
suddenly. The heat of the sun's rays alone may not produce it, 
but when it is combined with fatigue or insufficient perspiration 
it will often do so. It should be guarded against by avoiding an 
excessive consumption of animal food, by due attention to the 
bowels, by wearing light woollen clothing, by using in hot climates 
a suitable helmet which will protect the back of the neck as well 
as the head, by caution against fatigue or direct exposure to the 
sun, and by living in well-ventilated rooms which are kept as 
cool as possible. If a person is affected by it the treatment is 
similar to that of a stroke : he should be placed in a shady place 
with a cool atmosphere ; tight clothing should be removed — 
e.g., collars and belts — the head and chest may be sponged with 
cold water or a cold spirit lotion, while mustard or ammonia 
is applied to the back of the neck and soles of the feet. As soon 
as signs of recovery begin to appear, a little stimulant may 
be given. Eecovery is usually complete, but the individual 
thereafter may be unable to bear exposure to great heat, especi- 
ally in a tropical climate, so that he may be unfitted for his post. 
Nobody who has had a bad sunstroke should remain long in the 
tropics. 

Hypochondkia and Melancholia. — In melancholia we have 
a patient who takes no interest outside himself ; he is self-centred, 
his thoughts are concentrated upon himself and his doings, many 
of which exist only in his imagination. The chief indication is 
mental depression ; a deep gloom is cast over the mind ; he 
fancies he has committed abnormities of a most atrocious 
character, unpardonable sins, or that he has done something 
to ruin himself and his family, or a similar fancy. The general 
health is always impaired, and he is generally subject to insomnia. 
Melancholia chiefly afi'ects persons from twenty to forty-five 
years of age, and is often induced by overwork, strain, worry, 
or grief, and tends to suicide. It is frequently met with in a 
milder form as hypochondria or mental depression. In this also 
the patient is subject to abnormal introspection from slight causes, 



THE NERVES 643 

to self-examination or self-accusation with its consequent worry. 
It is more common in men than women. There is usually a 
morbid anxiety about the health, which frequently has its origin 
in gastric catarrh or similar ailment. The slightest symptoms 
are of the highest importance in his eyes, and he is apt to 
imagine that his doctor thinks lightly of his case. Consequently, 
he reads all the medical literature upon which he can lay his 
hands, whereby his trouble is exaggerated and his imaginary 
diseases increased manifold. He has gloomy thoughts, under- 
values his physical or mental powers, believes his health or his 
business is ruined ; suffers from headache, a sense of oppression 
on the top of the head, giddiness, loss of memory, nervousness, 
bashfulness, or shyness. He may believe himself impotent and 
unfit to marry ; he has a morbid dread of infectious diseases, 
and frequently scrutinizes his own health, magnifies every 
symptom, and complains of many abnormal sensations, al- 
though a medical examination may reveal no physical signs of 
disease. 

Treatment. — Eecommend a generous diet — eggs, milk, fish, 
meat, poultry, game, digestible vegetables, and fruit ; it should 
be similar to that for neurasthenia. In acute melancholia, if the 
patient refuses all food and is wasting rapidly, it may be necessary 
to resort to forced feeding. A tube is put down the oesophagus, 
and a meal consisting of 1^ pints of milk and two or three raw 
eggs, or as much soup or consomme, is poured down two or 
three times a day. In all cases there must be an avoidance of 
stimulants and foods which would be likely to upset or irritate 
the digestive organs. We must cure indigestion, gastric catarrh, 
constipation, amemia, gout, and other complications which may 
exist; but the patient should not be treated much by drugs if the 
organs are sound. 

Out-of-door exercise, and an occupation which will allow 
but little time for thinking about ailments and troubles, are 
■essential. Indeed, the treatment should be mainly hygienic and 
moral. Variety may be sought in change of occupation or climate, 
always with a suitable companion, and an endeavour must be 
made to distract attention from himself. Nothing is better suited 
for this than travel, variety of scenery, and occupation ; ennui is 
one of the worst enemies. Many of these people have real or 

41—2 



644 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

imaginary troubles. To such the Italian proverb applies : ' If 
all cannot live on the piazza, all may feel the sun.' Life is full 
of sunshine for those who wish to absorb it, but full of gloom for 
those who take a morbid delight in dwelling in the shadows. The 
troubles and difficulties of life, when bravely met, will strengthen 
the mental calibre and moral character of men and women. If 
anticipated and worried about, they debilitate the brain and nerves 
and enervate the whole system. ' Life is full of difficulties for all ; 
if we wait until we conquer all our difficulties, ease and merriment 
will never come. Laugh and be glad now ! The troubles which 
look like towering rocks ahead will vanish like soap bubbles or 
mist as we approach them. If we let an avalanche of trouble bury 
us, we have none but ourselves to blame. Drink the wine of life, 
not the lees. If you must indulge in fancies, weave them in 
bright colours rather than in the sombre hues of night. I find 
the gayest castles in the air that were ever piled far better for 
comfort and use than the dungeons in the air that are daily dug 
and caverned out by grumbling and discontented people.' If 
such people would look about them, they might find their own 
troubles to be small in comparison with those of some of their 
neighbours. If they would endeavour to lighten the troubles of 
people who are in a worse plight than themselves, they would 
probably find their own troubles would grow much less, and very 
often entirely vanish. 

' Go toil in any vineyard, 

Do not fear to do or dare ; 

If you want a field of labour, 

You can find it anywhere. ' 

There are various Pbemonitoey Symptoms which occur before 
any pronounced form of nervous disease exists which should by 
no means be neglected. Such are the attacks of headache, giddi- 
ness, frequent loss of memory, insomnia, restlessness, ' fidgets,' 
and irritability, which occur in a person unaccustomed to them. 
These warnings are of nervous origin, and indicate that the 
nervous system is readily exhausted. Steps should be taken for 
recuperation ; perhaps rest from business is required, or change 
of company and climate. Constant work without needful rest 
and recreation will wear down the best nervous system, especially 
when combined with worry and anxiety. If the person who has 



THE NEEVES 645 

been a slave to his business or to study begins to show these 
signs, he must take a longer rest, give an hour or two a day less 
to work, go to bed early, sleep well, endeavour to remove friction, 
and cultivate pleasant, cheerful society. If he does so his bodily 
machine will run more smoothly and wear longer ; but if he 
[)ersists in long hours of work, works in a closely confined area 
or in a crowded neighbourhood, never relaxes the bands which 
bind him to his office or duty, never gets into the country air or 
cheerful company, he will find nervous attacks, headache, in- 
somnia, bad temper, or irritability will dog him and render him 
less fit to do his business, and probably be the forerunners of a 
nervous breakdown of a serious character. 

Insomnia or sleeplessness is one of the premonitory and per- 
sistent signs of nerve trouble in many people, and in other 
diseases it is sometimes the first sign of the health breaking 
down. It may be due to exhaustion, congestion of the brain, 
malaria, alcohol, coffee, tea, or tobacco. Mental work carried on 
until bedtime often prevents sleep. The drugs used for it are 
legion, but it is inadvisable to take them regularly, as ' a habit ' 
may be formed. They should be reserved for special cases 
or special times, and should not be resorted to until other means 
have been fairly tried. Much good may be done by hygienic 
means. Let the person live plainly, but well ; take plenty of 
open-air exercise ; avoid worry and excess of mental work. The 
circulation of blood through the brain has very much to do with 
sleep. Whatever disturbs it may cause insomnia — e.g., worry 
and anxiety, by keeping the brain active and its arteries full. 
Coldness of the surface of the body, especially of the feet and 
lower extremities, will drive the blood inwards ; the brain then 
receives an undue share of it, and the person is kept awake. 
Disturbance of the circulation may be best remedied by taking 
walking exercise before going to bed, or by rubbing the extremi- 
ties with a flannel or towel; sometimes by a warm. supper, a 
glass of hot milk, whisky, or other ' night-cap,' which will warm 
the body, flush the skin, and stimulate the peripheral circulation, 
and thereby reduce the flow of blood through the cerebral vessels. 
When the head is hot the application of a cold-water bandage to 
it is soothing, and may produce sleep. Certain articles of food, 



646 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

such as onions and lettuce, are soothing, and induce sleep. 
Stout, beer, and other alcoholic beverages containing hops will 
produce sleep in persons who are not much accustomed to them. 
On the other hand, tea and coffee stimulate the cerebral circula- 
tion and excite the nerve centres, with consequent wakefulness 
or restlessness. iVll substances containing caffeine are prejudical 
to these people, and most certainly ought never to be taken in 
excess, and not at all later than about 5 p.m. An excess of 
tobacco causes or keeps going many cases of insomnia. Sleepless 
persons ought not to smoke for an hour or two before going to 
bed ; they should walk in the air for twenty or thirty minutes 
after the last smoke ; and if this fails, they should abstain from 
tobacco altogether for a few weeks. The influence of tobacco on 
the vasomotor nerves is such chat the cerebral vessels are unable 
to adjust themselves to the condition required to produce healthy 
sleep while under its influence. Sometimes a mustard foot-bath 
at 110° or 115° F. just before retiring will induce sleep ; and a 
warm bath to the entire body acts by promoting the peripheral 
circulation and lowering the general blood-pressure. In a good 
many cases it is sufficient if the patient has a warm supper, goes 
to a comfortable bed at a reasonable hour in a quiet and darkened 
room, is warmly wrapped up, lies upon the right side, and breathes 
slowly and regularly. Something should be done to prevent the 
thoughts from wandering from one thing to another, or to abstract 
the attention from a worrying subject. Various methods are 
adopted, such as counting up to several hundreds, attempting to 
master an abstruse problem, or learning a piece of Latin or Greek. 
In chronic cases of insomnia a trip to the Cape and back, or a 
change of air in a high or mountainous district, when combined 
with plenty of out-of-door exercise, is very valuable ; but a 
change of occupation or a complete mental rest is sometimes 
necessary to cure it. 

Headache is a common forerunner and symptom of nervous 
disease ; it may be due to overwork or nervous exhaustion. Vaso- 
motor disturbances occur, and the nerves are unable to control 
the rush of blood through the vessels. The arteries, being dis- 
tended, press upon the nerves which run by their side, or on the 
tender brain substance, and cause pain and stupor. The best 



THE NEEVES 647 

remedy is to do no more work or study than the strength will 
allow ; to avoid worry or anxiety, and not to dwell upon failure, 
but to hope for success. The diet should consist of easily digested 
food, especially milk, eggs, oysters, oatmeal, vegetables, and fruit. 
Excesses in eating or drinking must be avoided. Exercise in the 
open air and baths should be taken daily ; an out-of-door life 
is the best. Attend to the bowels, sleep well, and rise early. 
Migraine, or sick headache, is due to a nerve storm according to 
Fagge, or a paroxysmal neurosis according to Liveing, while 
others support the vasomotor theory of its origin. The popular 
term ' bilious or sick headache ' arises from the fact that vomiting 
sometimes occurs, especially when an injudicious meal has been 
eaten. Patients who are subject to migraine should have a 
plentiful but light diet ; avoid indigestion, hunger, chill, exhaus- 
tion, mental overwork, worry, and anxiety ; and must live a quiet 
and genial life as much as possible in the open air. When the 
attack occurs the patient should lie in a darkened room, have 
cold compresses of vinegar, aromatic vinegar, eau de Cologne, or 
camphor water applied to the head, hot-water bottles to the feet, 
and remain very quiet. As a rule the patient can take no food for 
a few hours ; but a little ice to suck, soda-water to drink, or infusion 
of guarana, with a slice of lemon or a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice in it, may help to relieve the paiu. The first meal should 
consist of a little clear soup, and the next one of tea and bread-and- 
butter or fish. Electricity is useful in curing some of these cases 
when they are due to nervous trouble ; but the proper treatment 
of all headaches is to remove the cause. 

Every headache is not due to nervous disease. Sometimes it 
is due to eye-strain, astigmatism, deficiency of pigment, and ex- 
cessive use of the eyes in a bad light. If the headache does not 
yield to medical and hygienic measures, an oculist should be con- 
sulted. Gastric troubles or constipation are often the cause of 
headaches, and should be corrected. Persons of a gouty or 
rheumatic tendency and of the uric acid diathesis frequently 
have very severe headache after exposure to cold, draught, or 
sudden changes of temperature. This variety is usually relieved 
by warmth, dry flannels, a hot-water bag, or gentle friction to the 
head. The pain may, however, last for several days, owing to a 
deposit of urates upon the sheath of the fine nerve filaments. 



648 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Proper gouty or rheumatic remedies are necessary ; but the con- 
stant electric current, electric brush, massage (stroking and 
kneading), and hot-water or vapour baths, are of considerable 
value. Early Bright's disease is another cause of severe head- 
ache. The urine ought to be examined for albumin and casts in 
every case where the headache is frequent or persistent. Auto- 
intoxication arising from the absorption of albumoses or other 
toxic substances from the alimentary canal is another cause of 
violent headache. This form is best treated by light feeding, a 
brisk purgative, and a mustard foot-bath. It may likewise be 
due to congestion of the liver and lithgemia, which should be 
treated by proper diet, bathing, and plenty of exercise. 

In children a chronic headache is sometimes due to very rapid 
growth, especially between nine and twelve years of age. The 
pain is most severe in the morning, and is in the forehead. It 
may be associated with ' growing pains ' or vague pains in various 
joints; but is accentuated by school-work and relieved by rest. 
Such children require tonics, nourishing food, and shortened 
hours of or complete rest from study. In other children fatigue 
of a physical or mental character is often a cause of headache ; 
clever children are as liable to it as slow ones. Anasmia, con- 
stipation, worms, gasfcro-intestinal disorders, auto-intoxication of 
intestinal origin, and other causes of headache, may frequently 
be removed by careful attention to the diet, regularity of meals, 
watchful care over the hours of study or play, ventilation of 
schoolrooms or dormitories, and other hygienic measures. 
Adenoids, disease of the ears, decayed teeth, and errors in 
refraction or other eye troubles, must be attended to. 

General Irritability is a sign of nervous weakness or exhaus- 
tion. The persons who are subject to it are often very thin and 
decidedly nervous. They ought to endeavour to put on flesh, to 
become fatter ; by so doing they will feed and strengthen their 
nerve cells, which normally contain a large amount of fat. Thin 
people frequently * do not drink enough of anything, in conse- 
quence of which their tissues becorae dry, and there is not enough 
liquid in the system to carry away the waste materials of the 
body. They should drink 2 or 3 pints of milk daily in addition 
to their ordinary food ; this would supply the necessary liquid 



THE NEEVES 649 

and a good deal of fat and proteid. Water would replace it as a 
beverage, but does not possess the same nutritive qualities. Ale 
and stout are useful in moderate amount when taken with the 
food ; but 2 or 3 pints daily could not be seriously recommended 
to such people, nor would it contain the necessary fat and 
proteid. 

Their food may consist of the ordinary meals, and include eggs, 
fish, oysters, lobster, crab, liver, lean and fat meat, milk, cream, 
cream-cheese, milk puddings, sweets, thick soup, oatmeal, maize ; 
also plenty of bread and an abundance of butter ; potatoes in any 
form, sweet potatoes, yams, cauliflower, boiled onions, carrots, 
parsnips, beet-root, peas, beans, and lentils. Lecithin is one of the 
forms of organized phosphorus in the body, and is of decided 
value for all forms of nerve trouble. It is contained in peas, 
beans, and lentils in a greater proportion than in any other vege- 
table ; and in eggs and milk more than in any other animal food. 
Oatmeal is rich in phosphates and maize in fat. Salted meat or 
fish is not good for these people, and they must avoid all kinds of 
indigestible food. People who are troubled with nervous start- 
ings, fidgets, trembling, sudden waking from sleep, or a sensation 
of falling, are often cured by a milk diet. Complications should 
be sought for — e.g., diabetes, Bright's disease, and other causes of 
wasting. 

The patient must endeavour to cultivate a placid, easy frame of 
mind ; perseverance and determination are very helpful in that 
respect. He must avoid being troubled by trifles ; worry inter- 
feres with digestion, and the fullest benefit is not obtained from 
the food. He should avoid hurry and bustle, but make his life as 
easy as possible. A rest and, if possible, a short sleep after the 
mid-day meal is very beneficial. He should sleep ten hours at 
night. Warm clothing is essential at ail times, and especially in 
bed Exercise is conducive to healthy appetite and digestion, 
encourages sleep and a feeling of comfort. Some thin persons 
think exercise is not good for them, which is an error ; moderate 
exercise in the open air encourages appetite and digestion, and 
will thereby assist in increasing their weight. Much benefit may 
be derived from a sojourn at Bournemouth, Nice, or Cannes. A 
very cold, dry air, and sometimes the sea air of our eastern and 
northern coasts, increases neuralgia and general irritability ; for 



650 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

such people Torquay, Penzance, the Scilly Isles, Mentone, Algiers, 
Egypt, and similar climates, would be more suitable. A long sea 
trip is very good for many people, as much as 2 stones in weight 
having been gained during a voyage to Australia and back. 

The Menopause, or change of life in females, is attended by 
marked disturbance of the nervous system, the nature of which 
is not distinctly understood, but it is undoubtedly connected with 
the functions of the ovaries. It is said that the internal secretion 
of the ovaries is a peculiar substance of value in the economy by 
facilitating the oxidation of the carbohydrate and the organized 
phosphorus of the food, and that the absence of this material 
during the menopause disturbs the physiological balance and 
causes various peculiar conditions.'' Whatever the function of the 
ovaries may be in this respect, it is clear that in females there is 
a wave of metabolic activity which reaches its climax just before 
each menstrual period ; during the rise of this wave there is a 
formation of new blood cells, an increasing amount of nerve 
force and vigour, and a feeling of bien-etre. A woman gains 1-5 to 
5 per cent, of her total weight in the intermenstrual period, which 
is partly due to diminished excretion of carbonic acid and water ; 
but during the period there is a corresponding loss, owing to in- 
creased excretion of carbonic acid and water, although the proteid 
metabolism is diminished. ^*^ 

The climacteric, or ' change,' is due to a complete alteration in 
the condition of the reproductive organs. The calibre of the 
vessels is lessened and the blood-supply diminished ; atrophy 
of the ovaries, Eallopian tubes, and uterus occurs ; the mammary 
glands become fiat and shrivelled, and other parts lose the charac- 
teristic form and appearance of the reproducing period.^^ Such 
a disturbance of the ovarian functions and such extensive changes 
in the structure of the reproductive organs has the effect of a 
physiological revolution, during which women suffer bodily and 
mentally. A multitude of symptoms occur even in a normal 
menopause, such as headache, feeling of pressure at the top of the 
head, tremblings, flushes of heat and perspiration, palpitation and 
shortness of breath, sleeplessness, nervousness, fidgets, irritability, 
nervous depression, and many other symptoms. During its course 
all physiological functions are weakened, all pathological condi- 



THE NEEVES 651 

tious aggravated.!- Many external factors have a decided influence 
upon it, such as the social position, mode of living, climate, and 
race. It behoves all vv'omen to see to their health, so that they 
may enter upon this period in a state of fitness ; all must ex- 
perience it, none can escape it. Such diseases as erosions, 
endometritis, laceration of the cervix or perineum, leucorrhcea, 
haemorrhoids, constipation, anaemia, neuralgia, and similar ail- 
ments, ought to be cured. During the 'change' the excretions 
and secretions should be looked after. The urine should be 
examined frequently for albumin or sugar, which may throw light 
upon various symptoms. The nutrition should be watched, waste 
and repair should balance. The patient should lead a regular 
and careful life ; take plenty of outdoor exercise ; be kept free 
from worry, anxiety, strain, overwork, and mental excitement. 
She should rest in bed during the menstrual period ; observe early 
hours, bathe regularly, and keep the skin and bowels active. ^^ 

A course of medicinal waters is good for many cases. All the 
alkaline waters are useful in curing uterine catarrh and leucor- 
rhcea. The chloride-alkaline waters of Homburg, Aix-la-Chapelle, 
Kissingen, Taunus, and Eoman Spa, may be drunk and used as 
a douche in uterine catarrh, leucorrhcea, endometritis, chronic 
metritis, and diseases of the uterine appendages and pelvic 
diseases generally. When there is marked anaemia the waters 
of Bath, Leamington, Harrogate, Flitwick, Pitkeathly, should be 
used, or those of Marienbad, Birmensdorf, Homburg, Wilhelms- 
quelle, Orezza, St. Moritz, and Pyrmont. If there are passive 
congestions, those of Carlsbad, Marienbad, or Tarasp. 

Change of air is sometimes requisite, and may be taken at the 
respective watering-places above named. We may recommend a 
dry, bracing climate, like Malvern, Clifton, Bath, Matlock, Buxton, 
Ilkley, Harrogate, for females with passive congestions, anaemia, 
debility, neurasthenia, or other nervous troubles. A warm, dry 
climate, like Bournemouth, Brighton, Nice, Cannes, the Pyrenees, 
Pisa, Rome, Egypt, if there be copious secretions or uterine dis- 
charges and a relaxed state of the body ; a warm, moist climate, 
like Falmouth, Penzance, Torquay, the Scilly Isles, Aberystwyth, 
South- West Ireland, Mentone, San Remo, Algeria, for very 
debilitated cases with little discharges. 

The menopause, climacteric, or change of life, occupies about 



652 FOOD AND HYGIENE 

five years : two or three from the commencement of irregularity 
to the cessation of functional activity, and a similar period during 
which the involution becomes complete and the normal activity 
of the body is re-established. If the health is carefully looked • 
after during this period, the pathological conditions will subside, 
but negligence might result in a serious breakdown from nervous 
or other causes, which may end in permanent ill-health. Due care 
of the dietary, the functions of the skin, kidneys, and bowels, a 
careful mode of life, proper rest, freedom from worry and excite- 
ment, will end in the re-establishment of the health and formation 
of a mens sana in corpore sano. 

References : ^ Andviezen, Brit. 3fecL Joiir., 1894, ii., 525. - Wardner, Physician 
and Surgeon, ccxlv. ^ Ives, Detroit Med. Jour., September, 1903. * ' The Treat- 
ment of Neurasthenia and Hysteria,' 5th edition. ^ The Lancet, 1888, i. 98. 
•" Kraft-Ebing on ' Hysteria Gravis,' the Alienist ami Nexirologist, February, 
1903. '' Hughes, ibid. * Kransky, Physician and Surgeon, ccliv. 182. 
9 Malone, ibid, i'* Brit. Med. Jour., 1901, 'ii.. Epitome, 61. ' " Tilt's 'Change 
of Life.' 1'^ Thorburn's ' Diseases of Women.' ^* Baldy's ' Diseases of Women.' 



APPENDIX 



I. — Standard Dietakies. 





Daily Requirement in Grammes. 


Proteid. Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Salts. 


Calories. 


Moleschott 

I'ettenkofer and Voit 

Cornet ... 

Ranke 


130 84 
137 117 
120 1 50 
100 100 


404 
352 
500 
240 


30 
30 


2,970 
3,113 
3,007 
2.324 





Daily Requirement in Ounces. 


Proteid. 


Pat 1 Carbo- 
**'^- hydrate. 


Total Food 
Water-free. 


Moleschott 

Parkes... 

Average of other authorities 


4-59 

4-5 

3-5 


2-96 14-26 
3-5 14-00 
3-0 14-00 


22-87 
23-00 
20-50 



The amount of energy required daily varies with the condition 
in life, and whether much or little muscular work is done. Energy 
and units of heat are expressed in calories. The number of calories 
required daily is stated by Atwater to be as follows : 

Man doing no muscular work requires 2,700 calories, 

light ,, ,, 3,000 

,, moderate ,, ,, 3,500 

,, severe ,, ,, 4,500 

Many authorities consider the latter figures to be higher than 
^accessary — ^that 3,000 calories is enough under all ordinary 
■circumstances, and 3,500 for severe work. The experiments of 
■Chittenden prove that more proteid is provided than is necessary 

653 



654 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



in many standard dietaries ; that with careful mastication and 
good digestion 50 per cent, of the amount of proteid stated by 
some writers is enough for ordinary work, as the energy is chiefly 
derived from carbohydrate. 

Atwater's table is useful for calculating the amount of food 
required by individuals according to age. It is as follows : 



The food of a man is reckoned as 
,, woman should be 
,, boy 14 to 16 should be 
,. girl 14 to 16 
,, child 10 to 13 ,, 

,, 6 to 9 
,, ,, 2 to 5 ,, 

,, under 2 ,, 



1-0 

0"8 that of a man. 

0-8 

0-7 

0-6 

0-5 

0-4 

0-3 



Metabolism is more active in children than in adults. Camerer 
states that at four years of age the energy used per kilogramme 
of body-weight is 91'3 calories ; at twelve years 57'7 calories per 
kilogramme; at thirty years 42'4 calories per kilogramme. 
Hence a child of four years weighing 31 pounds requires enough, 
food to yield 1,280 calories per day ; a child of twelve years 
weighing 66 pounds about 1,730 calories ; whereas a man of 
average size and weight requires 3,000 calories per day. 



II. — The Fuel Value of Foods, 

The digestibility and fuel value of proteid, carbohydrate, and 
fat, varies with their source, as shown by the following table : 



Source. 


Proteid. 


Carbohydrate. 


Fat. 


Digested. 


Calories. 


Digested. 


Calories. 


Digested. 


Calories. 




Per Cent. 


Per Oz. 


Per Cent. 


Per Oz. 


Per Cent. 


Per Oz. 


Total foods in 














mixed diet ... ' 


92 


114 


97 


114 


95 


253 


Animal foods of 














mixed diet ... j 


97 


121 


98 


108 


95 


253 


Vegetable foods of I 














mixed diet 


84 


90 


97 


114 


90 


237-5 


Meat and fish . . . 


97 


121-25 


98 


108 


95 


252-5 


Eggs 


97 


123-75 


98 


108 


95 


255-6 


Dairy produce . . . 


97 


121-25 


98 


108 


95 


250-0 


Cereals 


85 


1 109-37 


98 


116 


90 


237-5 


Legumes, dried ... 


78 


1 97-00 


97 


115 


90 


237-5 


Fruits 


85 


1 95-00 


90 


102 


90 


237-5 


Vegetables 


83 


88-00 


95 


113 


90 


237-5 



I 



APPENDIX 



655 



III. — The Caloeie and Caebohydkate Value of Food. 

In making calculations for dietaries, it is necessary to know the 
amount of heat and energy or number of calories which a given 
quantity of food will yield. It is also desirable in certain diseases 
to know approximately the amount of carbohydrate which the 
patient consumes. The following table is given as an aid for that 
purpose. In its compilation the analyses given in the text have 
been used ; where the composition is not taken from the text it 
has been drawn from the analyses given in Bulletin 28, issued by 
the Agricultural Department of the United States, and from 
other sources. One ounce = 437-5 grains or 28-284 grammes; 
1 gramme = 15432 grains ; 100 grammes = 3-53 ounces. 

Nutrients in Food. 



Food. 


Parts per 


100. 


Grains per Ounce. 


.2 C 

U 3 


2 




A -2 


|d 




A -2 




"S 
1 


'^ 
fe 


|2 




^ 

^ 




.20 

6 


Cereals, etc. : 
















Sugar, loaf or granulated 


— 


— 


96-5 








422 


106 


Molasses, sugar-cane ... 


— 


— 


70-0 


— 


— 


306 


79 


Maple syrup 


— 


— 


71-4 


— 





343 


86 


Candy, plain sweets 


— 


— 


96-0 


— 





420 


104 


Honey 


0-4 


— 


75-0 


1-7 





328 


82 


Extract of malt 


6-39 





70-0 


37-0 





306 


89 


Starch 


— 


— 


90-0 


— 





394 


102 


Arrowroot 


0-8 





83-3 


3-5 





364 


97 


Wheat flour, high-grade 


11-4 


1-0 


75-0 


49-8 


4 


37 


328 


98 


, , , , low-grade 


14-0 


1-9 


71-2 


61-1 


8 


3 


311 


98 


Entire wheat flour 


13-8 


1-9 


71-9 


60-3 


8 


3 


314 


103 


Graham flour 


13 -3 


2-2 


71-4 


58-1 


8 


7 


312 


103 


Wheat breakfast food . . . 


12-1 


1-8 


75-2 


52-8 


7 


8 


328 


105 


White bread 


6-8 


0-7 


52-3 


30-7 


3 





228 


68 


>> >) 


8-0 


0-9 


50-0 


34-9 


3 


9 


218 


68 


Brown bread 


5-4 


1-8 


47-1 


23-5 


7 


8 


206 


64 


Graham bread 


8-9 


1-8 


52-1 


38-9 


7 


8 


228 


75 


Whole-wheat bread 


97 


0-9 


49-7 


42-3 


3 


9 


217 


70 


Roll.?, French 


8-5 


2-5 


55-7 


37-1 


10 


9 


244 


81 


Sweet cake 


6-3 


9-0 


63-0 


27-5 


39 


3 


275 


101 


Biscuit, crackers 


11-3 


lO-o 


70-5 


49-3 


45 


8 


308 


118 


Zwiebach 


9-8 


9-9 


73-5 


43-8 


43 


2 


321 


123 


Rye meal 


6-8 


0-9 


78-9 


30-7 


3 


9 


345 


100 


Rye bread 


6-0 


0-5 


48-0 


26-2 


2 


2 


210 


62 


Corn meal, golden 


14-0 


3-8 


70-6 


61-1 


16 


6 


308 


105 


,, ,, common 


9-2 


1-9 


75-4 


39-7 


8 


3 


328 


100 


Hominy, cooked 


2-2 


0-2 


17-8 


9-6 





8 


78 


23 


Corn bread (Johnny- 
















cake) ... 


7-9 


4-7 


46-3 


34-5 


20-5 


206 


73 



656 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 
Nutrients in Food {continued). 



Food. 


Parts per 


too. 


Grains per Ounce. 




TJ 




' £. 


•o 




• ^ 




2 


1 




'3 
"o 


1 


|2 


V B 




CM 




".S" 


£ 




^^ 


o 


Cereals, etc. {conti 


nued) : 














Cornflour 


7-1 


1-3 


78-4 


31-0 


5-6 


343 


103 


Oatmeal ... 


15-5 


10-5 


63-0 


67-7 


45-8 


275 


114 


Rolled oats 


12-6 


7-2 


64-0 


55-0 


35-0 


280 


106 


Oat breakfast fo 


od ... 16-7 


7-3 


66-2 


73-0 


350 


290 


112 


Oatmeal gruel ( 


water) ... 1 "2 


0-4 


6-3 


5-2 


1-7 


27 


9 


Buckwheat floui 


6-4 


1-2 


77-9 


28-0 


5-2 


340 


100 


Rice 


. 5-0 


08 


83-2 


21-8 


3-5 


362 


102 


Sago, tapioca 


0-4 


0-1 


88-0 


1-7 


0-4 


384 


99 


Vermicelli 


10-9 


2-0 


72-0 


47-6 


8-6 


315 


102 


Macaroni 


13-4 


0-9 


74-1 


590 


3-9 


324 


103 


Barley, pearl 


... 8-5 


11 


77-8 


37-1 


4-S 


340 


103 


Banana flour 


3-5 


1-5 


81-6 


15-2 


6-5 


365 


90 


Prepared cocoa 


21-34 


28-12 


40-8 


93-2 


121-8 


178 


130 


Puddings : 
















Rice pudding 


4-3 


8-8 


22-1 


20-6 


42-2 


106 


51 


Tapioca pudding 


4-16 


7-3 


16-7 


20-0 


350 


81 


43 


Semolina puddir 


[g ... 4-63 


9-3 


15-7 


21-2 


44-6 


76 


47 


Yorkshire puddi 


ng ... 58 


7-5 


13-4 


27-8 


36-0 


67 


35 


Suet pudding 


. . 5-6 


10-0 


36-0 


26-8 


48-0 


172 


117 


Blancmange 


2-6 


3-1 


21-0 


15-5 


14-8 


100 


35 


Dried Legumes : 
















Haricot beans 


18-0 


1-7 


60-0 


78-6 


7-4 


262 


92 


Navy beans 


22-5 


1-5 


59-6 


98-3 


6-5 


261 


96 


Soya beans 


41-0 


13-0 


30-0 


189-0 


620 


130 


116 


Lentils ... 


22-5 


1-0 


59-0 


98-3 


4-3 


257 


94 


Peas 


22-0 


1-0 


58-5 


96-1 


4-3 


256 


93 


Pea meal . . . 


27-5 


1-3 


56-7 


120-0 


5-8 


248 


95 


Pea nuts . . . 


25-8 


38-6 


24-4 


112-6 


1681 


107 


178 


Ground nuts 


21-8 


51-7 


17-6 


103-4 


226-0 


77 


170 


Frijoles ... 


21-9 


1-3 


651 


960 


5-8 


285 


106 


Fresh Legumes : 
















Green peas 


6-06 


0-5 


14-03 


26-4 


2-2 


61 


21 


Green beans 


2-04 


0-3 


5-99 


9-0 


1-5 


26 


9 


Butter beans 


4-8 


0-3 


14-6 


210 


1-5 


64 


22 


Shelled beans 


7-1 


0-5 


25-0 


15-0 


2-2 


110 


32 


Tubers and Roots 
















Potatoes ... 


1-9 


0-2 


22-0 


8-2 


0-8 


96 


18 


Sweet potatoes 


1-5 


0-6 


26-0 


6-5 


2-6 


114 


31 


Jerusalem artict 


lokes ... 3"0 


— 


140 


13-1 


— 


61 


18 


Parsnips . . . 


2-1 


0-5 


12-5 


9-1 


— 


56 


15 


Carrots ... 


10 


0-2 


10-1 


4-3 


0-8 


48 


13 


Turnips ... 


0-9 


0-1 


6-1 


4-0 


0-4 


27 


8 



APPENDIX 

Nutrients in Food [continued) 



657 



Food. 


T 


Parts per 


100. 


G'iAINS PER OdNCB. 


ft . 


3 


a 


II 






il 




(5 


(S 




o 


fe 


si 


o 


Tubers and Hoots (con- 
















tinued) : 
















Beetroot ... 


1-3 


0-04 


18-6 


5-6 


0-1 


81 


22 


Salsify 


1-3 


0-4 


10-8 


5-6 


1-7 


47 


14 


Radishes ... 


0-9 


01 


4-0 


4-0 


0-4 


17 


5 


Vegetables : 
















Cabbage 


1 


8 


0-2 


5 





7-8 


0-8 


22 


7 


Cauliflower 


2 


5 





3 


4 


9 


11 





1 


3 


22 


8 


Brussels-sprouts 


4 


8 





4 


6 


2 


21 


•0 


1 


7 


27 


12 


Spinach 


3 


•1 





5 


3 


5 


13 


•5 


2 


1 


15 


8 


Squash ... 





7 





2 


4 


5 


3 


•0 





8 


20 


6 


Pumpkin and marrow ... 


1 








1 


5 


2 


4 


•3 





4 


23 


7 


Asparagus 


1 


9 





3 


2 


8 


8 


3 


1 


3 


14 


7 


Tomatoes 





9 





4 


4 





4 


•0 


1 


7 


17 


5 


Green corn (mealie) 


3 


1 


1 


1 


19 


7 


13 


5 


4 


8 


87 


27 


Mushrooms 


2 


5 





4 


6 





11 


■0 


1 


7 


26 


10 


Truffles 


8 


9 





6 


7 


5 


38 


8 


2 


6 


33 


19 


Onions 


1 


5 





1 


10 


9 


6 


5 


4 


8 


47 


16 


Leeks 


1 


2 





5 


5 


8 


5 


2 


2 


2 


25 


10 


Celery 


1 


5 





4 


3 


1 


6 


5 


1 


7 


14 


5 


Lettuce 


1 


4 





3 


2 


5 


6 


2 


1 


3 


11 


5 


Cucumber 





8 





2 


2 


5 


3 


4 





9 


11 


4 


"Watercress 


4 


2 





5 


6 


5 


18 


3 


2 


2 


30 


12 


Rhubarb ... 





4 





4 


2 


2 


1 


7 


1 


7 


10 


4 


Canned tomato 


1 


2 





2 


4 





5 


2 





8 


16 


5 


,, green corn 


2 


8 


1 


2 


19 


6 


12 


2 


5 


2 


86 


27 


,, baked beans 


6 


9 


2 


5 


19 


3 


30 


1 


10 


9 


84 


33 


,, green peas 


2 


8 


1 


2 


9 


8 


12 


2 


5 


2 


33 


14 


, , sucotash 


3 


6 


1 





18 


6 


15 


7 


4 


3 


81 


26 


Sauer-kraut 


1-7 


0-5 


3-8 


7-3 


2-2 


17 


7 


Fruit : 
















Apples, average ... 





4 


0-5 


12-5 


1-7 


2-2 


55 


15 


Blenheim orange 





4 


0-3 


15-5 


1 


7 


1-3 


68 


18 


Cooking apples 





6 


0-4 


10-9 


2 


6 


1-7 


48 


14 


Pears 





4 


0-6 


11 -f) 


1 


7 


2-6 


48 


13 


Plums 





7 


— 


15-0 


3 


2 





65 


16 


Greengages 





4 





13-5 


1 


7 


. . 


59 


15 


Prunes, French 





4 





8-2 


1 


7 





33 


9 


,, Californian 





8 





18-5 


3 


4 





81 


21 


Apricots 





5 


— 


110 


2 


2 





48 


13 


Peaches 





6 


01 


11-5 


2 


6 





50 


14 


Nectarines 





6 


— 


15-0 


2 


6 





66 


18 


Olives 


1 


4 


21-0 


3-5 


6 


1 


91-7 


13 


61 


Cherries 


0- 


7 


0-8 


11-1 


3 





3-8 


48 


14 


Grapes 


10 


1-0 


15-5 


4 


3 


4-3 


66 


18 


,, sweet 


6 


1-0 


25-1 


2-6 


4 


3 


110 
42 


29 

























658 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 

Nutrients in Food (^continued). 



Food. 


Parts per 


100. 


Grains per Oun-ce. 


S a 

6 


2 




ft 


2 
'S 

o 




1 ^ 


Fruit {continued) : 
















Strawberries 


1-1 


0-5 


6-5 


4-7 


2-2 


29 


8 


Raspberries 


0-5 


— 


5-5 


2-2 


— 


24 


6 


Blackberries 


0-9 


2-0 


6-0 


4-0 


8-6 


26 


12 


Bilberries 


0-7 


— 


5-8 


3-0 


— 


25 


7 


Whortleberries 


0-7 


3-0 


5-8 


3-0 


13-1 


25 


12 


Mulberries 


0-3 


— 


11-5 


1-3 


— 


50 


13 


Black currants ... 


0-4 


— 


7-9 


1-7 


— 


34 


9 


Gooseberries 


0-07 


0-5 


8-5 


0-1 


2-2 


37 


10 


Cranberries 


0-5 


0-7 


40 


2-2 


3-0 


17 


6 


Melons ... 


0-8 


0-36 


7-5 


3-5 


1-5 


33 


10 


Water-melon 


0-4 


0-1 


6-5 


1-7 


0-4 


29 


8 


Pineapple 

Bananas ... 


0-5 
1-5 


0-3 
0-6 


10-0 
21-0 


2-2 
6-5 


1-3 
2-6 


44 
92 


12 
25 ■ 


Plantains 


1-7 


0-2 


20-9 


8-4 


0-8 


91 


25 


Oranges 


0-9 


0-5 


7-6 


4-0 


22 


36 


11 


Lemons 


10 


0-8 


7-9 


4-3 


3-5 


34 


11 


Dried apples 


1-4 


30 


49-1 


6-2 


13-1 


215 


61 


,, figs 


5-5 


0-9 


65-0 


240 


4-0 


284 


78 


,, prunes 

,, dates 


2-5 
4-6 


0-8 
20 


66-1 
66-0 


11-0 
19-1 


3-5 

8-6 


289 

288 


76 
80 


,, raisins 


2-3 


4-8 


75-1 


10-0 


19-2 


328 


95 


,, currants ... 


1-4 


2-9 


64-9 


6-0 


12-6 


284 


79 


JVuts, edible portion : 
















Brazil nuts 


15-3 


65-0 


7-4 


66-8 


284-0 


32 


163 


Almond nuts 


21-0 


54-9 


17-1 


91-7 


240-0 


75 


257 


Filbert nuts 


15-5 


65-2 


13-0 


65-7 


285-0 


61 


170 


Walnuts 


16-7 


64-5 


14-9 


730 


282-0 


65 


171 


Butternuts 


28-0 


61-1 


3-5 


122-0 


267-0 


16 


162 


Chestnuts, fresh 


6-2 


5-5 


42-2 


27-0 


24-0 


185 


63 


, , dried 


10-7 


7-0 


741 


450 


30-5 


324 


106 


Cocoanut 


5-7 


50-5 


27-7 


250 


218-0 


120 


145 


,, shredded 


6-4 


57-2 


31-9 


28-0 


251-0 


150 


169 


Peccan nuts 


11-0 


71-2 


13-2 


48-0 


311-0 


58 


180 


Pistachio nuts 


22-5 


54-5 


15-7 


98-5 


238-0 


70 


206 


Lichi nuts 


3-0 


0-2 


77-5 


13-1 


0-8 


334 


86 


Peanuts, raw 


25-7 


28-6 


24'2 


102-5 


125-0 


107 


110 


,, roasted 


30-5 


49-2 


16-2 


132-2 


215-0 


71 


152 


Meat, edible portion : 
















Beef, average 


17-1 


27-3 


— 


74-7 


119-3 


— 


89 


,, cooked 


27-5 


15-5 


— 


120-1 


68-0 


— 


72 


,, ribs, raw 


13-9 


21-2 





60-7 


92-6 


— 


71 


,, sirloin, raw 


16-5 


16-2 


^ 


72-1 


70-7 


— 


61 


,, rump, raw 


13-8 


20-2 


_ 


60-3 


88-3 


— 


68 


Corned beef 


14-3 


23-8 


— 


62-4 


104-0 


— 


78 



APPENDIX 

Nutrients in Food {continued). 



659 



Food. 


Parts per 


100. 


Grains per Ounce. 


.20 


"a 


■^ 




73 

2 


•A 


1- 




o 


fe 




2 

CM 


^ 




c4 

o 


Meat, edible portion [con- 
















tinued) : 
















Pickled tongue 


12 





19 


•2 


— 


52 


•4 


83-9 





63 


Salted or smoked beef ... 


26 


5 


6 


9 




115 


■8 


30-0 





50 


Veal, average 


19 


5 


5 


4 


— . 


85 


•2 


23-5 


. — 


37 


,, cutlets 


20 


1 


7 


5 





87 


8 


32-7 


. 


43 


Mutton, average 


18 


1 


7 


7 


— 


79 


•0 


33-6 


— 


41 


,, very fat 


14 


8 


36 


3 


— 


64 


•6 


158-6 


— 


110 


,, leg 


15 


1 


14 


7 





^Q 


■0 


64-1 


— . 


56 


,, ,, roast 


25 





22 


6 


— 


109 


•2 


98-7 


— 


91 


Lamb, leg 


16 





13 


6 


— 


70 


•0 


59-4 





54 


,, breast 


15 


5 


19 





— 


67 


•7 


83-0 





68 


Venison 


19 


2 


1 


3 


— 


83 


•6 


6-0 


— 


27 


Pork, lean 


19 


9 


6 


8 


— • 


87 





30-0 


— 


41 


,, fat 


14 


5 


37 


3 


— 


63 


3 


164-0 


— 


112 


,, loin chop 


13 


4 


24 


2 


— 


58 


5 


106-0 


— 


78 


Smoked bacon ... 


9 


1 


62 


2 


— 


36 


7 


272-0 


— 


169 


,, ham 


14 


2 


33 


4 


_ 


62 





146-0 


— 


102 


, , shoulder 


13 





26 


6 


— 


57 


•0 


1160 


— 


84 


Salt bacon, fat 


1 


9 


86 


2 


— 


8 


2 


377-0 





222 


Sausage, pork 


13 





44 


2 


— 


57 





193-0 


— 


129 


German 


18 


2 


19 


7 


— 


79 


5 


86-5 


— 


72 


Tripe 


13 


2 


16 


4 


— 


58 


•0 


71-5 


— 


57 


Brain 


8 


8 


9 


3 


— 


38 


4 


40-6 


— 


35 


Liver* 


22 


5 


4 


2 


2-5 


98 


•3 


18-3 


11-0 


38 


Sweetbread 


16 


8 


12 


1 


— 


73 


2 


52-8 


. , 


51 


Kidney 


16-6 


4-8 


0-4 


73-2 


20-9 


1-7 


32 


Soup : 
















Beef 


4 


4 





4 


11 


19 


2 


1-7 


4-9 


7 


Tomato 


1 


8 


1 


1 


5-6 


7 


8 


4-9 


24-4 


11 


Gumbo, canned 


2 


4 





2 


4-6 


10 


5 


0-8 


20-0 


10 


Chicken ,, 


2 


9 


3 


3 


51 


12 


6 


14-5 


22-2 


15 


Meat stew 


4 


6 


4 


3 


5-5 


20 





18-7 


240 


23 


Beef-tea 


6 


1 





3 


1-0 


26 


6 


1-3 


4-3 


9 


Pea soup ... 


3 


6 





7 


7-6 


15 


7 


3-0 


33-2 


15 


Oxtail soup 


4 





1 


3 


4-3 


17 


5 


5-6 


18-7 


13 


Mulligatawny soup 


3 


7 


01 


5-7 


16 


1 


0-4 


24-9 


11 


Turtle soup 


6-1 


1-9 


3-9 


26-6 


8-3 


170 


17 


Poultry, meat mily : 
















Fowls, chicken ... 


22-7 


10-1 





99-0 


47-0 





63 


,, capon 


21-6 


22-1 


— 


94 


3 


96-5 





91 


,, broiler ... 


22-8 


8-8 





100 





38-5 





55 


Pheasant 


24-7 


4-6 





108 





20-0 





51 


Partridge 


25-3 


1-5 





111 





6-5 





44 


Turkey, light meat 


25-7 


9-4 


— 


112-0 


41-0 


— 


67 



Liver may contain 13 per cent, carbohydrate. 



or 



59 grains per ounce. 
42—2 



660 



:food and hygiene 

Nutrients in Food {continued). 



Food. 


Paets per 


100. 


Grains per Ounce. 


ft • 

% 


-^ 




. <J5 


'd 




. uJ 






-s 


|1 




"S 


I1 


S 3 

.20 




o 
p-l 


tn 


^ 


1 


^ 


<3^ 


6 


Poultry, meat only {con- 
















tinued) : 
















Turkey, dark meat 


21-4 


20-6 


— 


94-0 


90-0 


— 


90 


Duck, breast 


22-3 


23 


— 


97-5 


100 


— 


43 


, , other meat 


17-4 


•/6-1 


— 


76-0 


114-0 





96 


Goose 


16 -22 


31-5 


— 


71-0 


138-0 


— 


109 


j , , very fat . . . 


15-8 


45-6 


— 


690 


200-0 


— 


134 


Pigeon 


22-9 


12-1 


— 


1300 


96-0 





69 


Quail 


25-4 


7-0 


— 


111-0 


30-0 


— 


59 


Squab, cormorant 


18-5 


23-8 


— 


81-0 


1040 


— 


92 


Guinea-hen 


23-4 


6-5 


— 


102-0 


28-5 





50 


Canned turkey ... 


20-7 


29-2 


— 


90-5 


127-8 


— 


112 


,, chicken... 


27-7 


12-8 


— 


121-0 


560 


— 


78 


,, quail 


21-8 


8-0 


1-7 


95-0 


35-0 


7-5 


58 


Potted turkey 


17-2 


22-0 


— 


75-0 


960 


— 


87 


,, chicken 


19-4 


20-3 


— 


85-0 


89-0 


— 


87 


Pate de foie gras 


13-6 


38-2 


— 


58-6 


167-0 


— 


130 


Smoked goose ... 


20-1 


38-7 


— 


88-0 


169-0 


— 


138 


, , , , without fat 


26-1 


4-5 


— 


114-0 


20-0 


— 


53 


Uggs, without shell : 
















Hen's egg 


13-5 


11-6 


— 


58-0 


51-0 





46 


, , white ... 


13-1 


0-1 


— 


57-0 


0-4 





15 


yolk 


15-5 


31-7 


— 


68-0 


139-0 


— 


100 


Duck's egg 


13-3 


14-5 


— 


58-0 


63-3 


— 


53 


,, white 


11-1 


0'03 


— 


48-5 


0-1 





14 


, , yolk 


16-8 


36-2 


— 


740 


158-0 


— 


115 


Goose's egg 


13-8 


14-4 


— 


60-0 


630 





54 


Turkey's egg 


13-4 


11'2 


— 


600 


49-0 


— 


45 


Plover's egg 


10-7 


11-7 


— 


47-0 


51-0 


— 


44 


Guinea-hen's egg 


13-5 


12-0 


— 


58-0 


52-5 


— 


47 


Evaporated hen's egg . . . 


46-7 


36-0 


— 


204-0 


158-0 


— 


164 


Egg substitute 


73-9 


0-3 


— 


322-0 


1-3 


— 


92 


Dairy produce : 
















Cow's milk 


4-0 


4-0 


4-5 


17-6 


17-6 


19-8 


20 


Skimmed milk 


3-4 


05 


5-1 


18-8 


2-2 


22-2 


10 


Buttermilk 


3-8 


1-2 


3-3 


16-6 


5-2 


14-5 


11 


Whey 


1-2 


— 


4-5 


5-2 





19-6 


6 


Condensed milk, 
















sweetened 


10-0 


10-5 


51-3 


43-7 


44-5 


224 


93 


,, unsweetened 


9-8 


10-8 


14-3 


430 


47-0 


62-5 


54 


Milk powder 


90-0 


— 


— 


394-0 








106 


Cream, medium ... 


2-5 


180 


4-5 


10-9 


78-6 


19-6 


50 


,, rich 


2-5 


30-0 


4-4 


11-0 


131-0 


19-2 


81 


clotted 


6-1 


58-2 


2-5 


26-6 


245-0 


11-0 


151 


Bntter 


2-r) 


8o-0 


— 


11-0 


371-0 


— 


214 



APPENDIX 

Nutrients in Food {continued). 



661 





Parts per 


100. 


Grains per Ounce. 


.2 5 
.SO 
O 


Food. 


■a 
o 


1 




3 




0-2 
is 


airy produce {continued) : 


1 














yiaigarine 


1-0 


82-0 


i — 


4-3 


358-0 


— 


204 


Jheese, Cheddar 


: 267 


30-5 


— . 


117-0 


1310 





117 


,, American 


30-8 


27-7 


— 


134-6 


121-0 





106 


,, Stilton 


: 36-3 


45-8 


j — 


1590 


200-0 





158 


,, Gorgonzola 


' 27-7 


26-1 


1 — 


121-0 


114-0 





99 


,. Rocquefort 


28-3 


30-3 


— 


1240 


132-0 


— 


110 


, , Camembert 


21-8 


41-9 


— 


95-2 


183-0 


— 


132 


mphibia, etc., edible 
















portion : 
















^'rog's legs 


! 10-2 


0-1 


— 


44-5 


0-4 


. . 


13 


terrapin ... 


21-0 


3-0 


. — . 


91-7 


13-1 


— 


37 


3reen turtle 


18-2 


0-5 





79-5 


2-2 





22 


jobster 


181 


1-1 


0-6 


79-0 


4-8 


2-6 


25 


>ab 


15-8 


1-5 


0-8 


69-0 


6-5 


3-5 


23 


Crayfish 


16-0 


0-8 


0-8 


70-0 


3-5 


3-5 


23 


ihrimps ... 


25-4 


1-0 


0-2 


111-0 


4-3 


0-8 


32 


)ysters ... 


5-0 


1-3 


15-3 


21-7 


5-6 


69-0 


25 


Jlams, round 


10-6 


1-1 


5-2 


45-3 


4-8 


22-6 


21 


long 


9-0 


1-3 


2-9 


39-3 


5-7 


12-6 


17 


callops ... 


14-7 


0-2 


3-4 


64-2 


0-8 


14-8 


22 


lussels 


8-8 


1-0 


4-2 


38-4 


4-3 


17-3 


18 


sh : 
















Average of many kinds. . . 


18-0 


3-0 





78-6 


13-1 





30 


'ish-roe, shad 


20-9 


3-8 





91-3 


16-6 





37 


)aviare ... 


30-0 


19-7 





131-0 


86-0 





95 


anned salmon ... 


21-8 


121 





96-0 


53-0 





57 


,, tunny ... 


21-5 


4-1 


— 


94-0 


180 





36 


, , mackerel 


19-9 


8-7 


— 


87-0 


38-0 





46 


,, haddock 


21-8 


2-3 





96-0 


10-0 





31 


,, sardines 


24-0 


12-1 


— 


1050 


53 





60 


moked or salted haddock 


16-1 


0-1 


— 


70-0 


0-4 





19 


,, ,, halibut 


19-1 


14-1 





84-0 


61-0 


. 


60 


, , , , herring 


20-5 


8-8 


— 


90-0 


38-0 





47 


„ eod !.. 


16-0 


0-4 


— 


70-0 


1-7 


— 


20 


esh fish, edible portion 






— 










only : 
















^lewife ... 


19-7 


4-9 





86-0 


21-0 





42 


ass, sea ... 


19-8 


0-5 


— 


86-0 


2-1 





25 


lack-fish 


18-7 


1-3 





82-0 


5-6 





25 


lue-fish 


19-4 


1-2 





85-0 


5-2 





26 


utter-fish 


18-0 


11-0 





79-0 


48-0 


_ 


50 


atfisli ... ... ... [ 


14-4 


20-6 


— 


63-0 


900 





71 


iscoe 


18-5 


6-8 


— 


81-0 


30-0 


— 


40 



662 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 
Nutrients in Food (continued). 



Food. 


Parts per 100. 


Grains per Ounce. 


u 

°o 


■a 
2 


rt 


|2 


•p 


< 


|i 




I 


S 


-1 


1 


Eq 


ai 


6 


Fresh fish, edible portion 














only {continued) : 
















Cod 


16-5 





4 


— . 


72 





1 


7 


— 


20 


Cusk 


170 





2 


— 


74 








8 


— 


20 


Eels 


18-6 


9 


1 


, 


81 


2 


40 





. — 


46 


Flounder 


14-2 





6 


— 


62 





2 


6 


— . 


12 


Haddock 


17-2 





3 


— 


75 


1 


1 


3 


— 


21 


Hake 


15-4 





7 





67 


2 


3 





— 


20 


Halibut steaks 


18-6 


5 


2 


— 


81 


2 


22 


7 


— 


35 


Herring 


19-5 


7 


1 


— 


82 


1 


31 





— 1 


41 


Kingfish 


18-9 





9 


— 


82 


5 


3 


9 


— 


24 


Lamprey ... 


15-0 


13 


3 


— 


65 


5 


59 


1 


— 


53 


Mackerel... 


18-7 


7 


1 


— 


81 


7 


31 





— 


40 


Mullet 


19-5 


4 


6 


— 


85 


2 


20 


1 


— 


35 


Perch, white 


19-3 


4 





— 


84 


3 


17 


5 


— 


33 


,, yellow 


18-7 





8 


— 


81 


7 


o 


4 


— 


24 


Perch-pike 


18-6 





5 


— 


81 


2 


2 


1 


— . 


23 


Pickerel-pike 


18-7 





5 


— 


81 


7 


2 


1 


— 


23 


Pike, gray 


17-9 





8 


— 


78 


2 


3 


5 


— 


23 


Pollock 


21-6 





8 


— 


94 


2 


3 


5 


— 


27 


Pompano 


18-8 


7 


5 





82 


1 


32 


7 


— 


41 


Porgy 


18-6 


5 


1 


— 


81 


2 


22 


2 


— 


35 


Red grouper 


19-3 





6 


, — 


84 


3 


2 


6 


— 


24 


Red snapper 


19-7 


1 





. — 


86 





4 


3 


— 


25 


Salmon .. 


22-0 


12 


8 


— 


96 


1 


57 





— 


60 


,, sections 


17-8 


17 


8 


— 


77 


7 


77 


7 


— 


67 


Shad 


18-8 


9 


5 


— 


82 


1 


41 


5 


— 


47 


Sheep's-head 


20-1 


3 


7 


— 


87 


8 


16 


1 


— 


33 


Skate 


18-2 


1 


4 


■ — 


79 


5 


6 


1 


— 


25 


Smelt 


17-6 


1 


8 


— 


76 


8 


7 


8 


— 


25 


Sole, plaice 


110 


1 





— 


48 





4 


3 


— 


16 


Sturgeon 


18-1 


1 


9 


— 


79 


1 


8 


3 


— 


26 


Tom-cod 


17-2 





4 


— 


75 


1 


1 


7 


— 


21 


Trout, brook 


19-2 


2 


1 


— 


83 


5 


9 


1 


— 


28 


, , lake or salmon . . . 


17-8 


10 


3 


— 


77 


3 


45 





— 


48 


Turbot 


14-8 


14 


4 





64 


6 


62 


9 


— 


65 


Weakfish 


17-8 


2 


4 





77 


3 


10 


5 


— 


27 


Whitefish 


22-9 


6-5 


■ — 


100-1 


28-4 




44 



Combined with sugar and milk or cream in the usual propor- 
tions, 1 pint of tea will yield 145 calories, of coffee 195, of cocoa 
210 ; and 1 pint of milk will yield 400 calories, of beef-tea 130, 
of beer 526, of port wine 971, of dry sherry 792 ; 1 ounce of pure 
alcohol will produce 198, of any spirit (50 per cent.) 99, of any 
spirit containing 35 per cent. 70 calories. 



APPENDIX 663 

Three thousand calories would be produced by 42 ounces of 
cooked beef, 30 of ham, 14 of fat bacon, 26 of cheddar 
cheese ; by 7i pints of cow's milk, 15 of skim milk, 6 of beer ; 
28 ounces of milk powder ; 65 ounces of hen's eggs. The same 
amount would be produced by 28*3 ounces of sugar, 36^ of honey, 
33| extract of malt, 44 of white bread, 30 of sweet cake, 25| of 
biscuit or cracker, 28^ of golden corn-meal, 26^ of oatmeal, 
29^ of rice, 59 of rice pudding, 32^ of haricot beans, 31^ of navy 
beans, 32^ of dried peas, 17f of ground-nuts, 17 of peanuts, 167 of 
potatoes, 97 of sweet potatoes, 111 of green corn, 120 of bananas 
or plantains, 37:| of dried dates, 45 of dried raisins, 38 of dried 
currants, 38 of dried figs, 39 of dried prunes, 18| of dried brazil- 
nuts, 17^ of dried filberts, 17J of dried walnuts, 281 of dried 
chestnuts ; or 27 J pounds of cabbage. 

IV. The Salt-free Diet. 

It has been established that a diet which is free from salt 
{chloride of sodnmi) is more conducive to the cure of certain 
conditions than one which contains the usual quantity of salt, 
especially in epilepsy and non-febrile serous effusions such as the 
late stage of pleurisy or dropsy. In these cases the food should 
not contain more than 1^ grammes of salt per diem, which 
quantity it would be almost impossible to eliminate from the 
diet. Ordinary bread contains 5 to 7 grammes per pound, and 
milk about 1 gramme per pint. 

When a salt-free diet is prescribed, no salt must be used in 
making, cooking, or in eating any of the articles allowed. The 
diet can be varied according to the disease, and may be selected 
from the following : Meat, fresh-water fish, eggs, milk, butter, 
cheese, cream, bread, potatoes, rice, peas, beans, carrots, celery, 
artichokes, salad ; sugar, blanc-mange, custard, milk-puddings, 
sweatmeats ; jelly, meat-jelly ; and marjoram, thyme, parsley, 
bay-leaf, chutney or tomato sauce for flavouring ; also mineral 
waters containing little NaCl, lemonade, tea, coffee, and beer or 
wine in small quantities. Soup is forbidden, as well as sea 
fish and all other articles which contain much salt. Carducci 
prescribed the following for dropsy : Milk IJ litres, meat 
300 grammes, bread 300 grammes = 2,280 calories. The patient 
remained in bed until the csdema was quite gone, after which 
time the allowance of salt was raised to 3 grammes pei- diem, 
its elimination by the kidneys being watched. In epilepsy 
Balint prescribed : Milk 1-i- to 21 pints, butter 1| ounces, three 
eggs, bread 9^ to 12^ ounces, and weak tea or coffee = 2,300 to 
to 2,400 calories per diem. This contained 2 grammes of salt, 
none being allowed in cooking or eating. It is believed that 
bromide acts more efficaciously when salt is withheld from the 



664 



J^OOD AND HYGIENE 



food, and sometimes the salt is replaced by 45 grains of bromide 
of sodium in each day's allowance of bread. Such bread is called 
bromopan. 

V. The Purin-fkee Diet. 

Substances which contain the group C^N^ are called extrac- 
tives or purins. The purins yield very little energy to the body, 
and are almost valueless as food. On the contrary, their excre- 
tion from the body is difficult, uric acid production is increased 
by foods containing them, and their presence is harmful in gout 
and allied diseases, epilepsy, renal and vascular disorders. The 
following foods contain no ■purin, and are recommended : Milk, 
butter, cheese, eggs, white bread, macaroni, rice, tapioca, 
cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, sugar, fruit, sherry, port, volnay, 
and claret. Strictly speaking, milk and its derivatives contain 
traces of purin. Potatoes and onions contain very little purin, 
and are allowed. Tripe, cod-fish, neck of pork, pea-fiour, and 
malted lentils contain rather more purin, but are often allowed. 
Forbid tea, coffee, cocoa, meat, fish, fowl, sweetbrf^ad, beans, 
asparagus, and malt liquors. The following table by Walker- 
Hall from the British Medical Journal, 1902, i., 1461, is useful : 

The Quantity of Purins in Food. 



Per Grammes 



Cent. per Kilo. ^^^^^_ 



per 



Food. 



Per ' Grammes 



Grains 



Cent. ; per Kilo. : p^^-^_ 



Cod-Qsh 

Plaice 

Halibut 

Salmon 

Tripe 

Mutton 

Veal, loiu 

Pork, loin 
,, neck 

Ham (fat) 

Beef, ribs 
,, sirloin 
, , steak 

Liver 



•058 
•079 
•102 
•116 
•057 
•096 
•116 
•121 
•056 
•115 
•113 
•130 
•206 
■275 



0-58 
0-79 
1-02 
1-16 
0^57 
0^96 
1-16 
1-21 
0^56 
1^15 
1^13 
1-30 
2-06 
2-75 



4-07 
5-56 
7^14 
8^15 
4-00 
6^75 
8-14 
8^49 
3^97 
8-08 
7^96 
9^13 
14-45 
19-26 



Sweetbread 
\ Chicken 

Turkey 

Rabbit 

Oatmeal 

Peameal 

Haricot beans 

Potatoes 

Onions 

Asparagus ... 

Lager beer ... 
I Pale ale ... 

Porter 



•006 


10^ 


•129 


1- 


•126 


1^ 


•097 


0- 


•053 


0^ 


•039 


0- 


•063 


0^ 


•002 


0^( 


•009 


0^( 


•021 


O^t 


■012 


0^ 


•Oil 


0-] 


■014 


o^- 



•06 
•29 
•26 
•97 
•53 
•39 
•63 
•02 
•09 
•21 
•12 
■14 
•15 



70^43 
9-06 
8-82 
6-31 
3-45 
2-54 
4-16 
0^14 
0^06 
1^50 
1^09 
1-27 
r35 



INDEX 



Absinthe, 290 
Absorption of food, 27 
Acclimatization, 396 
Acid drinks, 186 
Acids, fatty, 16 

organic, 17, 173 
Acne, 561 

rosacea, 563 
Actinomycosis, 48 
Acute illness, diet, etc., 424 
Adults, food of, 76 
After-history of the food, 26 
Age, food according to, 87 
Air and climate, 344 
Albumen, 10-12 
Alcohol, 277 

effects of, 281 

habitual use of, 283 

in illness, 285, 428 
Ale, 298 
Aleuron, 167 
Alkaline waters, 330 
Almonds, 191 
Amides, 167 

Amount of food required, 33 
Amygdalin, 191 
Amylic alcohol, 15, 288 
Amyloses, 13 

Anaemia and chlorosis, 556 
Anchovy, 128 

Animal food alone, effects of, 4 
Aniseeds, 221 
Aperient waters, 334 
Apoplexy, 641 
Appendicitis. 501 
Apples, 175 
Apricot, 178 
Arrach, 291 

Arterial degeneration. 533, 624 
Artichokes, 199 
Artificial digestion, 456, 463 

human milk, 61 
Asparagus, 196 
Assimilation of food, IS 
Atony and dilatation of stomach, 



459 



Atwater's table, 70, 654 
Auto- intoxication, 509 

Bacteria in food, 51 
water, 307 
Baked flour, to prepare, 65 
Banana, 188 
Barberry jelly, 182 
Barley, 239 

water, 240 
Batatas, 248 
Baths, 548 
Bay-leaf, 220 
Beans, 202, 656 
Beef, 113 
Beef-tea, 136 
Beetroot, 198 

sugar, 225 
Beri-beri, 49 
Betel, 270 
Bhang, 269 
Bilberry, 181 
Bile, 21 

Biliary colic, 518 
Birds, 122 
Bitters in ale, 298 
Bitter waters, 334 
Blackberry, 181 
Blackwater fever, 446 
Bleeding from the stomach, 477 
Body, tlie elements of, 7 
Boils and carbuncles, 563 
Boletus, 205 
Bones for soup, 141 
Bowels, catarrh of, 493 
Bran, 231 
Brandy, 286 
Brazilian cocoa, 260 
Brazil nuts, 191 
Bread, 232 

fruit, 189 

jelly, 144 

nuts, 189 
Blight's disease, 578 
Brill, 130 



665 



eee 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Brine waters, 337 
British health resorts, 352 
Brussels-sprouts, 194 
Buckwheat, 248 
Butter, 159 
Butterine, 160 
Buttermilk, 150 

Cabbage, 194 

Caffeine, 256 

Cakes and pastry, 236 

Calorie, 38, 654 

Cancer of the stomach, 478 

Candy, 225 

Cane-sugar, 224 

Capers, 210 

Caramel, 225 

Carbohydrates, 13, 27 

Carbon in food, 8 

excretion of, 8 
Carbonic acid baths, 343 
Cardoon, 209 
Carlsbad salts, 519 
Carrageen moss, 208 
Carraway-seeds, 221 
Carrot, 198 
Casein, 145 
Cassava, 247 
Catarrh of the bowels, 493 

of the stomach, 464 
Cauliflower, 195 
Caviare, 132 
Cavy, 116 
Cayenne, 216 
Celery, 209 

Cells and their contents, 166 
Cellulose, 14 
Cereals, the, 229, 655 
Chalybeate waters, 340 
Champagne, 296 
Change of air, 350 

of life, 650 
Chanterelle, 205 
Cheese, varieties of, 161 

the ripening of, 161 
Cherry, 178 
Chicory, 256 
Children, feeding of, 66 

Xiven's dietary for, 72 
Chlorophyll, 166 
Chlorosis, 556 
Chocolate, 265 

cream, 226 
Choice of meat, 117 
Cholera, 49, 489 
Chyme and chyle, 21 
Cider, 300 
Cigarette- smoking, 276 



Cinnamon, 218 

Claret, 294 

Classification of food, 7 

Climacteric, 650 

Climate and food, 3, 98 

Climate and health resorts, 349-389 

Clothing, 596 

Clotted cream, 149 

Cloves, 217 

Coca, 266 

wine, 268 
Cocoa, 262 

butter, 264 
Cod and cod-liver oil, 128 
Coffee, 255 

adulteration, 256 
Colour of sweets, the, 226 
Condensed milk, 148 
Condiments, 211 
Confectionery, 225 
Consomme, 193 
Constipation, 482 
Consumption, 597 

climates for, 613 
Cooking, the effects of, 42 
Corn meal, 243 
Corpulency, 522 
Cost of food, the, 40 
Cow's heel, 141 
Cow's milk, 144 
Crab, 136 
Cranberry, 181 
Cream, 146 

clotted, 149 
Cresses, 209 
Cucumber, 211 
Currants, dried, 180 

red and black, 182 
Curry, 244 

powder, 219 

Damson, 177 

Dandelion, 210 

Dates, 189 

Deficiency of food, effect* of, 6 

Devonshire cream, 149 

Dewberry, 181 

Dextrin and dextrose, 14 

Diabetes, 566 

Diarrhoea, 489 

Diastase, 240, 298 

Dietaries, 653. See special subjects. 

Diet in hospitals, 79 

mixed, advantages of, 45, 84 
in relation to climate, 99 

occupation, 92 
sickness, 424, 652 

Diet of adults, 76 



INDEX 



667 



Diet of athletes, 93 

of children, 70 

of infants, 56 

of middle life, 104 

of old age, 107 

of sailors, 81 

of soldiers, 80 
Diffusion, 26 
Digestion of food, 18 

time required for, 23, 120 
Dilatation ot the stomach, 459 
Diseases caused by food, 46 
water, 317 

spread by flies, 49 

of the bowels, 482 

of the liver, 511 

metabolism, 504 

of the stomach, 449 
Distribution of animals, 406 
Drains, water polluted by, 314 
Dry diet, 528, 593. 623 
Duck, 125 
Dulse, 208 
Durra, 243 
Dysentery, 489 
Dyspepsia, 449 

Early phthisis, 605 
Ebstein's dietary, 527 
Eczema, 561 
Eels, 129 
Eggs, 125, 660 
Elderberries, 182 
Elements of the body, 7 
Emulsin, 192 
Endive, 209 
Enteric catarrh, 493 

fever, 441 
Epilepsy, 639 
Ergot of rye, 48, 239 
Essential oils, 173 
Ether-drinking, 303 
Excess of food, 5, 88 
Exercise, effects of, 542 
Extractives, 13 
Extract of malt, 240 

Faeces, 22 

Fasting people, 6 

Fat and fatty acids, 16, 31 

Fatty heart, 532 

Feeding of children, 70 
of infants, 56 
of old people, 107 

Fennel, 221 

Fermentation, 279 

Ferruginous waters, 340 

Fevers, the, 433 



Fibrin, 11 

Figs, 189 

Fish, 127-134, 661 

as cause of leprosy, 133 
Fistulina, 205 
Flavour of fruit, 173 
Flies spread disease, 49 
Flounder, 130 
Flour, 231 
Food, after-history of, 26 

amount required, 33, 653 

assimilation of, 18 

classification of, 7 

deficiency or excess of, 6, 88 

diseases caused by, 46 

in relation to age, 87 
climate, 99 
occupation, 92 

in sickness, 424-652 

preservatives in, 52 

value of, 33, 654 

work done by, 38, 655 
Foreign health resorts, 365 
Fowls, 124, 659 
Fusel oil, 278, 288 
Friedrichshall water, artificial, 318 
Frogs, 126 
Fruit, composition of, 172, 657 

sugar, 15, 172 

value of, 174 
Functional diseases of liver, 511 
Furfurol, 279 

Gall-stones, 518 
Game, 122 

flavour of, 123 
Garlic, 219 

Gastric catarrh, acute, 464 
chronic, 467 

juice, 19 

ulcer, 472 
Geographical distribution, 406 
Gin, 290 
Ginger, 218 
Ginseng, 270 
Globulin, 11 
Glucose, 16, 226 
Gluten, 230 
Glycerine, 16, 121 
Glycogen, 28, 121 
Goat, 115 
Golden syrup, 227 
Goose, 125 
Gooseberries, 182 
Gout, 534 

Gouty diabetes, 577 
Grapes, 179 
Grape-«ure, 179, 372 



668 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Grape-sugar, 14, 179 
Gravel, 551 

'Greens,' value of, 194 
Ground-nut, 204 
Grouse, 124 
Guarana, 260 

Haddock, 129 

Hake, 128 

Halibut, 130 

Halliburton's dietary, 77 

Hard water, 309 

Hare, 116 

Haricot beans, 202 

Haschish, 269 

Headache, 646 

Health resorts. See below 

Heart disease, 620 

fatty, 532 
Herb beer, 54 
Herrings, 127 
Hill diarrhoea, 498 
Honey, 227 
Hops, 298 
Horseradish, 214 
Hot-air bath, 580 
Human milk, 58 

artificial, 61 
Hydatids, 48 
Hydrocarbons, 15 
Hydrotherapy, 548 
Hyperchlorhydria, 452 
Hypochlorhydria, 452 
Hypochondria, 642 
Hysteria, 636 

Iceland and Irish moss, 249 
Immunity, 435 
Indian corn, 243 

hemp, 269 
Indigestible foods, 23 
Indigestion, 449 
Infant feeding, 56 
Inorganic salts of the body, 16 
Inosite, 14 
Insomnia, 645 
Intestinal catarrh, 493 
Intestines, diseases of, 482 
Inulin, 14 
Invert sugar, 15 
Irritability 648 
Isinglass, 143 

Jam, 174 
Jelly, 143 

various, to make, 143 
Juniper, 221 
Junket, 155 



Keratin, 12 
Kola, 261 
Koumiss, 149, 301 

Lsevulose, 15, 227 
Lactose, 14, 147 
Lamb, 114 
Lamprey. 132 
Lavage of stomach, 460 
Lead in water, 315 
Lecithin, 12 
Leeks, 197 
Legumin, 203 
Lemon, 184 

juice and water, 185 

kali, 185 
Lemonade, 185 
Lentils, 203 
Leprosy and fish, 133 
Lettuce, 210 
Life in the tropics, 395 
Lime juice. 185 
Liqueurs, 291 
Lithfemia, 551 
Liver-chill. 515 

Liver troubles, management of, 514 
Liver, cirrhosis of, 517 

congestion of, 513 

diseases of, 511 
Lobster, 136 
Lumbago, 545 
Lupus, 563 

Macaroni. 238 
Mace, 218 
Mackerel, 129 
Maize, 243 

Malaria, effects of, 449 
Malarial fever, 443 
Malt, 240, 297 

extract, 240 

liquors, 297 
Maltose, 14 
Man is omnivorous, 2 
Manioc, 247 
Manna or mannite, 14 
Maple sugar, 224 
Margarine, 160 
Marjoram, 220 
Marmalade, 174 
Marrow, vegetable, 196 
Marzipan, 226 
Massage, 546 
Mate, 259 
Mead, 228 

Meals, time and number of, 89 
Meat, 112-122, 658 

jelly, 144 



INDEX 



669 



Melancholia, 642 
Melon, 188 
Menopause, 650 
Mental depression, 642 
Metabolism, 70 

diseases of, 504 
Methylated spirit, 302 
Migraine, 646 
Milk of animals, 58 

condensed, 148 

cow's, 144 

diet, 151 

diseases spread by, 153 

human, 58 

jelly. 143 

powder, 149 

preparations, 154 

sour, 153 

sterilized, 63 
Millet, 243 
Mineral waters, 318 
Mint, 219 

Mixed diet, advantages of, 37, 84 
Molasses, 15, 227 
Moleschott's dietaries, 35 
Morel, 207 

Moss, Iceland and Irish, 249 
Mountain climate, 370 
Mucin, 12 
Mud-baths, 343 
Mulberries, 182 
Mussels, 135 
Mustard, 212 
Mutton, 114 

broth, 140 

Narcotics, 249 

Natural mineral waters, 318 

Nauheim treatment, 625 

Nectarines, 178 

Nerves, diseases of, 631 

Nervous debility, 631 

irritability, 648 
Neurasthenia, 631 
Nicotine, 271 
Night-terrors, 74 
Nitrogen, loss of, 8 

necessity for, 7 
Nitrogenous excretion, 30, 511 

foods, 10 
Niveu's dietary, 72 
Non-nitrogenous foods, 13 
Nuclein, 12 
Nutmeg, 218 

Nutrients in food, 655-662 
Nuts, 190, 658 

Oats and oatmeal. 241 
Obesity, 522 



Occupation, food in relation to, 92 

Oil of theobroma, 264 

Oils, 31. See Fats 

Old age. food in, 107 

Olives and olive-oil, 190 

Onions, 197 

Opium, 268 

Oranges, 183 

Organic acids, 17, 173 

in stomach, 453 
Osmosis, 26 

Over-feeding, evils of, 88 
Oxaluria, 551 
Oxydase in tea, 250 
Oxygen, 9 
Oysters, 134 

Pancreatic fluid, 22 
Papaw and papayotin, 187 
Paraguay tea, 259 
Parke's diet tables, 35 

table of percentages, 36 
Parsley, 221 
Parsnips, 198 
Partridge, 124 
Pastry, 236 
Peach, 177 
Peacock, 124 
Pearl barley, 240 
Pears, 176 
Peas, 201 
Pectin, 174 
Pellagra, 49 
Pepper, 214 
Peptones, 11 
Peptonized foods, 155 
Perityphlitis, 501 
Perry, 300 
Persimmon, 178 
Pheasant, 124 
Pickles, 208 
Pilchard, 128 
Pine forests, 616 
Plaice, 131 
Plantain, 188 
Plastids, 166 
Plastin, 12 
Plums. 177 
Poi, 247 

Poisonous colours, 226 
Pomegranate, 186 
Pork, 115 
Port, 293 
Potato, 199 

starch, 200 
Powdered milk, 149 
Premonitory nerve symptoms, 644 
Preservatives in food, 52 
Prevention of gall-stones, 518 



670 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Prevention of gout, o37, 550 
Prickly pears, 176 
Proteids, 10, 29 
Protoplasm, 166 
Pnmes, 177 
Psoriasis, 560 
Puddings, 237, 656 
Pumpkin, 196 
Ptomaine-poisoning, 50 
Puree, 193 

Purgative waters, 334 
Purification of water, 316 
Purin-free diet, 664 
Purins, 506 

Quince, 176 

Rabbit, 116 

Radishes, 211 

Raisins, 180 

Ranke's dietary, 35, 78 

Raspberries, 181 

Rat, 116 

Rennet and Rennin, 146 

Residue of digested food, 22 

Rheumatic fever, 440 

gout, 550 
Rheumatism, chronic, 544 
Rhubarb, 182 
Rice, 244 
Rickets. 68 
Rum, 289 
Rye and rye-bread, 238 

Saccharose or sucrose, 14, 223 

Sage, 220 

Sago, 245 

Salads, 208 

Saline waters, 337 

Salisbury treatment, 525 

Saliva, 19 

Salmon, 127 

Salsify, 197 

Salts in body and food, 16 

Salt-free diet, 663 

Samphire, 211 

Sanatorium treatment, 617 

Sardines, 128 

Savory, 220 

Savoury pudding, 141 

Scurvy, 68 

Seakale, 195 

Seaside air, 350 

Sea voyage, 351 

Senile heart, 622 

Sewer-gas, 347 

Shad. 128 

Shell-fish, 134, 661 

Sherry. 293 



Shrimps, 136 

Skate, 132 

Skin diseases, 560 

Skirret, 199 

Sleeplessness, 645 

Sloe, 177 

Smoking, effects of, 271 

Soft-water, 308 

Sole, 131 

Sorghum, 242 

Sorrel, 210 

Soup, 136, 059 

Soya beans, 248 

Sprue, 498 

Stock for soup, 142 

Stomach, atony and dilatation, 459 

cancer of, 478 

catarrh of, acute, 464 
chronic, 467 

diseases of, 449 

lavage of, 460 

ulcer of, 472 
Stone, 551 
Stout, 298 
Strawberries, 180 
Sturgeon, 132 
Substitutes for tea, 254 
Sugar, 223 

of milk, 147 

Sulphurous waters, 341 
Sunstroke, 641 
Surface waters, 310 
Sweet herbs, 219 
potatoes, 248 
Sweets, 225 

Table waters, 321 

Tamarind and tamarind whey, 186 

Tapioca, 245 

Taro, 247 

Tea, 249 

adulteration of, 253 

cigarettes, 254 

excess of. 253 

substitutes for, 254 
Temperature of the body, 434 
Theine, 251 
Thermal waters, 342 
Thin people and irritability, 648 
Thyme, 219 

Time required for digestion, 23 
Tobacco, its effects, 271 
Tomato, 186 

Toxins of disease, 51, 434 
Tropicardimates, 389 
Tropics, life in the, 395 
Trout, 127 



INDEX 



671 



Truffles, 207 
Tuberculosis, 597 
Tunney, 130 
Turbot, 130 
Turtle, 126 
Typhoid fever, 441 

and oysters, 135 

Ulcer of the stomach, 472 

Unit of heat, 38 

Urea excretion, 30, 504 

. Value of food, 33 
Vanilla, 266 
Vapour bath, 580 
Variety of food is necessary, 87 • 
Veal, 113 

broth, 141 
Vegetable-marrow, 196 

salts, 17 
Vegetables are always necessary, 49, 
84, 192 

classification of, 169, 657 

digestion of, 25 
Venison, 115 
Ventilation, 347 
Vermicelli, 238 
Vibration, treatment by, 547 
Vichy salts, 519 
Vinegar, 222 
Vitellin, 11 
Volatile oils, 15 
Vomiting of food, 465 

of blood, 477 

Walnut, 190 

Waste of the food, 22 

Water, 306 

bacteria in, 307 

diseases cured by, 318-343 

diseases due to, 317 

hardness of, 309 

necessity for, 9 

pollution of, 313 

proportion in the body, 9 

spring, 311 

surface, 310 
Weight of infants, 64 
Wells, 312 

Wheat and wheat flour, 229 
Whey, 146 

tamarind, 186 
White fish, 126 
Whitebait, 128 
Whiting, 129 
Whisky, 288 
WhortlebeiTy, 181 
Wine, 292 



Wine jelly, 143 

Work done by the food, 

Yams. 248 
Yeasti 279 



Climates and Health 
Eesokts. 

Aberystwyth, 361 
Acclimatization, 397 
Africa, North. 374, 389 

South, 377, 390 

West, 390 
Algeria, 374 
Aliwal North, 378 
Alps, the, 369 
America, Central, 391 

North, 380 

South, 390 
Arizona, 383 
Arkansas, 382 
Asia, 391 

Atlantic Islands, 373 
Australia, 383 
Austria, 371 
Azores, 374 

Belgian resorts, 372 
Bermuda, 374 
Biskra, 375 
Bordighera, 368 
Bournemouth, 357 
Brighton, 358 
British health resorts, 352 
Buxton, 362 

California, 382 

Canada, 380 

Canary Islands, 374 

Cannes, 366 

Cape Colony, 377 

Channel Islands, 359 

China, 392 

Cintra, 373 

Clifton, 362 

Climate, food in relation to, 98, 404 

Colorado, 382 

Cornwall, 353 

Dartmoor, 362 
Davos, 370 
Devonshire, 355 

Egypt, 377, 389 
Engadine, The, 370 
English lakes and moors, 363 



672 



FOOD AND HYGIENE 



Falmouth, 354 
Florence, 369 
Florida, 383 
Folkestone, 359 
Fiance, 365 
Freiburg, 372 

Genoa, 368 
German resorts, 372 
Grahamstown, 378 
Gries, 372 
Grindelwald, 370 , 

Harrogate, 363 
Hastings, 358 
Helonan, 377 

Highlands of Scotland, 364 
Huelva, 373 
Hunstanton, 360 
Hyeres, 366 

India, 392 

Indies, The West, 379 
Indo-China, 392 
Innsbruck, 372 
Ireland, 365 
Isle of Man, 361 
Isle of Wight, 358 
Italy, 368 

Jamaica, 380 
Japan, 391 

Karoo district, The, 379 
Kent, 359 
Kimberley, 379 
Kitzbuchel, 371 

Lakes, American, 381 

English, 363 

Italian, 368 
Leysin, 371 
Long Island, 381 
Luxor, 376 

Madeira, 373 
Maggiore, 368 
Malvern, 362 
Margate, 359 
Marseilles, 366 



Matlock, 362 
Mentone, 367 
Meran, 368 
Mexico, 391 

New, 383 
Mont Estoril, 373 
Montpellier, 366 
Moors, the English, 363 
Morocco, 377 
Mullion, 353 
Mustapha, 376 

Naples, 369 
New Zealand, 384 
Nice, 366 

Oban, 364 
Okehampton, 362 
Oneglia, 368 
Oran, 376 

Pau, 365 

Penmaenmawr, 361 
Penzance, 353 
Pisa, 369 
Portugal, 373 
Pyrenees, 373 

Riviera, The, 366 
Rome, 369 

Sandgate, 359 
San Remo, 366 
Scilly Isles, 355 
Scotland, 364 
South Africa, 377 
Southport, 361 
Spain, 373 
St. Moritz, 370 
Switzerland, 369 

Tenby, 360 
Torquay, 355 
Tropical climates, 389 
Tyrol, The, 371 

Ventnor, 358 

Wales, 360 
West Indies, 379 
Weymouth, 358 



THE END. 



Rebman Limited, 129 Shaftesbury Avenue, W.C. 



University of Toronto 
Library 




' ! ■\.; A ' -^/ys 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



