Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



ibyGoogle 






i 



HARVARD LAW LIBRARY 



J;,:i «li .Jll 



r 

ibyGoogle 



"6 



ibyGoogle 



ibyGoogle 



ibyGoogle 



D,B,i,.db.Goo>^lc 



THE 



rOOD AND DRUGS ACT 



JUNE 30. 1906 



A STUDY 



TEXT OF THE ACT, ANNOTATED, THE RULES AND 

REGULATIONS FOR THE ENFORCEMENT 

OF THE ACT, FOOD INSPECTION 

DECISIONS AND OFnCIAL 

FOOD STANDARDS 



ARTHUR P.GREELEY 

I Patint Law Aiidciatioh or WAiHiHtiTDH; HiMiu oi 






WAIHIHGTOH. D. C. 

JOHN BYRNE f^ COMPANY 

Itfw Bt*i Publuktri 

1907 



i by Google 



gIpI 



Cfpjfrighl 1907, bf 
Arthuk p. Ghbelet 

JAN k6 '.ill 



ibyGoogle 



PREFACE. 

The sentiment back of the Food and Drugs Act is well 
understood. Every one will agree that, so far as it can be 
done by legislation, the laws should protect the public from 
being deceived in the foods which nourish them or in the 
medicines which are relied on to cure their ills. But to 
formulate a law which will effectively protect the public 
without depriving it of freedom to eat what it may choose 
to eat and to take such remedies as it may wish to take, 
and without serious disturbance of business conditions, and 
especially to formulate a Federal law which will do this with- 
out transcending the powers conferred on the Congress by 
the Constitution, is a matter of great difHculty. It is not 
SM-prising that the Food and Drugs Act is in some respects 
difficult to understand. Some of the questions as to its 
meaning have been answered by expressions of opinion from 
the Department of Agriculture. Other questions have not 
been answered and cannot be answered definitely until the 
meaning of the Act has been determined by the courts. In 
the matter here contained I have presented such information 
bearing upon the Act as can be gathered from the decisions 
given out by the Department of Agriculture, the published 
expressions of opinion of officials charged with the enforce- 
ment of the Act, and the views expressed by those who hdve 
studied the Act with especial care in the interest of .the 
manufacturers of and dealers in particular lines of food and 
drug products. 

Whatever sentiments may be entertained as to what ought 
to be the law and what ought to be done by law with refer- 
ence to the question of pure foods and pure drugs, the ques- 
tioti as to which my clients have zvantcd information is the 



i by Google 



iv Preface. 

question of what the law is and what it requires of the manu- 
facturer, packer, jobber, and retailer of foods, drugs, medi- 
cines or liquors. Information rather than theory is what 
those who are subject to the requirements of the Act want, 
and so far as informaiion on the many questions arising 
under the Act is available, I have collated it and here pre- 
sent it. 

ARTHUR P. GREELEY. 

Washington, D. C, April 15, 1907. 



i by Google 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER I. 

THE GENERAL PURPOSES AND SCOPE OF THE ACT. 

I. Thk Purpose of the Act 

3. Scope op the Act — Manufacture 

3. Scope of the Act — Commerce WUkin a State 

4. Scope of the Act — Original Package 

5. Scops of the Act— Inspection of Materials 

6. Scope of the Act— DUtrict of Columbia and Territories. . 
J. Scope of the Act — Inspection of Material in District of 

Columbia and Territories 

8. Scope op the Act — Stock on Hand January 1, 1907 

g. Scope of the Act — Correction of Labels on Hand 

10. Scope of the Act — Exports 

11. Scope of the Act— Mfotj and Meat Food Products 

12. Scope op the Act — Imported Food and Drug Products 

13. Scope of the Act— Teas 

14. ScopB OF THE Act— Imported Foods and Drugs— Regula- 

15. Scope of the Aci—Seiiure in transit 

16. Effect op the Act 

CHAPTER II. 
PROCEDURE UNDER THE ACT. 

17. Collection of Samples 

18. Collection of Samples — Suggestions 

i(). Analysis or Examination 

aa Hearing Before the Secretarv of Agriculture 

21, Proceedings in the Courts 

22. Publication 

CHAPTER HI. 
ARTICLES TO WHICH THE ACT APPLIES. 



CHAPTER IV. 
ADULTERATION. 

Adulteration 

Adulteration— ZJmgf— Drug Standards 

Aw\.TKk/.riQv— Foods— Food Standards 

Adulteration— Foorfx— ,4 rfmiX are of Inferior Ingredients.. 
Advltbkatioh— Foods— Abstraction of yatuable Constituent 



i by Google 



vi Table of Contents. 

30. Adulteration — Foods — Concealment of Damage or In- 

feriority a? 

31. Aaxn-TKHATioy— Foods— Colors and Preservatives 28 

33, Abultehation — Foods—Prohibited Colors and Preservatives 31 

33. Adulteration— Foorf J— Effecf of Rulings 32 

34. Adulteration— Foorff — Character of Raw Material 33 

35. Adulteration — Confectionery 33 

CHAPTER V. 
MISBRANDING 

3d Misbranding 36 

37. Misbranding — false Trade Description 37 

38. MismiANDiNC— Pnor U. S. Statutes 39 

39. Misbranding — False or Misleading Statement, Design or 

Device 40 

40. MiSBRANDiNC — Trademark 42 

41. Misbranding — Name of Manufacturer— Fictitious Names... 42 

42. Misbranding— Faiie Indication of Origin 43 

43. Misbranding— Gewero/ Requirements as to Label^Arlicles 

Without a Label 46 

44. Misbranding — Form of Label 47 

45. Misbranding— Dru£j 47 

46. Misbranding- Z)r«gj— RrfHtng 48 

47. Misbranding — Drugs — Substances Required to be Named... 49 

48. Misbranding — Statement of Quantity of Proportion 50 

49. Misbranding— jDrKfif — Alcohol — Wood Alcohol 51 

50. Misbranding — Drugs — Form of Statement of Substances 

Required to be Named $1 

51. Misbranding — Drugs — Supplemental Label, Stamp or 

Paster S3 

52. Misbranding — Drugs — Formula S3 

53. Misbranding — Foods — Imitations S3 

54. Misbranding — Foods — Distinctive Name 54 

SS- Misbranding — Foods — Waste Material S5 

56, Misbranding — Foods — Deceptive Labeling or Branding — 

ReHlling S5 

57- Misbranding — Foods — Substances Required to be Named. . 56 

58. MisBRANDiKG — Foods— Weights and Measures 56 

59. Misbranding — Foods — Mixtures or Compounds Under Dis- 

tinctive Names S7 

6a UtisiJtAnmna— Foods— Permissible Imitations 58 

61. Misbranding— Foorfj — Compounds — Mixtures 59 

6z. Misbranding— f 00 dj — Blends 59 

63. Misbranding— Pro/in>(jry Foods— Formula 61 

CHAPTER VI. 
THE GUARANTY. 

64. Effect of Guaranty 63 

65. Form op Guaranty 63 

66. Guaranty Applies to Unbroken Packages Only 6s 

67. Guaranty not a Government Guaranty 6,1 

(ML Guaranty— A'o Provision as to Imported Foods and Drugs. . 6S 



i by Google 



Table of Contents. vii 

CHAPTER VII. 
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES. 

69. Ehforceuent of the Act 67 

;a Stock on Hand 67 

71. Notes as to Paxticulab Phoducts ^ 

73. Labelinc Packages 6g 

73. Canned Goods— Labels 70 

74. State Laws 70 



APPENDIX. 

Text of Food amd Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, Ahnotated 73 

Rules and Regulations for the Enfokcehent of the Food 

AND Drugs Act 83 

Food Inspection Decisions, 40 to 65 105 

Standards <w Purity for Food Products 141 

/, Animal Products 143 

A. Meats ^^^ the Principal Meat Products 143 

a. Meats 143 

b. Manufactured Meats 143 

d. Lard 143 

B. Milk and Its Products 143 

a. Milk 143 

b. Cream 144 

c. Milk or Butter Fat 144 

d. Butter 144 

e. Cheese 144 

f. Ice Cream 145 

g. Miscellaneous Milk Products 145 

//. Vegetable Products 145 

A. Grain Products 145 

a. Grains and Meals 145 

B. Fruit and Vegetables 146 

a. Fruit and Fruit Products 146 

b. Vegetable and Vegetable Products 147 

C. Sugars and Relative Substances 147 

a. Sugar and Sugar Products 147 

b. Glucose Products 148 

c Candy I48 

d. Honey 149 

D. Condiments (except Vinegar and Salt) 149 

a. Spices 149 

b. Flavoring Extracts 151 

c. Edible V^etable Oils and Fats 153 

R Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa Products 155 

a. Tea 155 

b. Coffee 155 

c. Cocoa and Cocoa Products 155 

F. Beverages 156 

a. Fruit Juices, fresh, sweet and feitnented 136 

G. Vinegar 157 

///. Salt 158 

Index 161 



i by Google 



D,B,i,.db.Google 



The Food and Drugs Act 
June 30, 1906. 



THE GENERAL PURPOSE AND SCOPE 
OF THE ACT, 

I. The Purpose of the Act . 

The purpose of the Act is indicated in the title,' to prevent 
so far as within the constitutional power of the Federal 
Government to do so, the manufacture, sale or transporta- 
tion of food or drugs which are either so adulterated as to 
be below the standard of quality expected by the purchaser, 
or are so poisonous or deleterious in themselves or by reason 
of the addition to them of poisonous or deleterious coloring 
or preservatives as to be injurious to health, or which are 
misbranded or labeled in such a way as to deceive the public 
as to their character, quality, locality of origin, or manu- 
facture. 

The Act has been quite generally regarded as an Act 
passed in response to the demand of the public for protec- 
tion from the deception practiced upon consumers by manu- 
facturers of and dealers in foods and drugs. There is some 
ground for this view ; and perhaps it was necessary, in order 
to secure the passage of the Act, that this idea should have 
been made more prominent than the facts really warranted 
and that the comparatively isolated instances of seriously 
hannful adulteration or misbranding so dwelt upon that 



ibvGooglc 



2 Puqwse and Scope of the Act. 

adulteration should be made to appear a general practice. 
As a matter of fact legislation along the lines of this Act 
and directed to the same purpose has long been desired by 
the large majority of manufacturers of and dealers in foods 
and drugs as a measure of protection against the unfair 
competition of a small minority who for the sake of tem- 
porary gain have been willing to put upon the market foods 
and drugs which could be sold at a larger profit than the 
standard goods made and sold by the majority. 

Up to the present time no prosecutions have been brought 
under the Act, but the knowledge that the Act is upon the 
Statute Books, and that the necessary machinery for its en- 
iorcement is already provided for, and that it will be en- 
forced, deliberately perhaps, and with all proper considera- 
tion for business interests, but without hesitation or doubt 
■wherever necessary, has already very lai^ely checked the 
serious adulterations and misbrandings of both foods and 
drugs. 
2. Scope of the Act — Manufacture . 

The first section of the Act' makes it unlawful to manu- 
facture any article of food or drug which is adulterated or 
misbranded, within the meaning of the Act, within the Dis- 
trict of Columbia or any Territory, the term Territory in- 
cluding, as provided in Section 12' the insular possession 
of the United States, and the Section provides for the 
punishment of any one violating this provision of the Act. 

Being expressly limited to the District of Coliunbia and 
the Territories this section of the Act does not apply to 
the manufacture of any article of food or drug in any State, 
whether adulterated or misbranded or not. This limita- 
tion is in recognition of the fact that Congress is not given 
by the Constitution the power to regulate manufacturii^ 
carried on within a State, and in so far as the manufacture 
of any article, such for instance as distilled and fermented 
liquors, oleomargarine, renovated butter and filled cheese, 



■Pm* 7J. 'P»«e 8j. 



i by Google 



Commerce Within a State. 3 

is regulated by Congress, such regulation is incidental to 
the ratsii]g of revenue, or to the exercise of some other 
power of Congress, But under the Constitution Congress 
may exercise exclusive legislation in all cases over the 
District of Columbia, and also has full power as r^^rds 
the Territories. 

This section of the Act became effective January 1, 1907. 

3. Scope of the Act — Commerce Within a State. 

Section 2* is so drawn as to limit the application of the 
Act, so far as concerns the dealing in adulterated or mis- 
branded foods or drugs within any State, to the strict line 
of interstate or foreign commerce. It is the introduction 
into any State from any other part of the United States or 
from any foreign country, of adulterated or misbranded 
food or drugs, which is prohibited. The offenses punish- 
able under the provisions of this Section are: the ship- 
ment or delivery for shipment to any point outside the State, 
either within the United States or in a foreign country, of 
adulterated or misbranded food or drugs ; and the receiving 
from outside the limits of the State and delivering to any 
other person in original unbroken packages of any adulter- 
ated or misbranded food or drugs so received. It seems 
clear that the delivery to another person by a dealer in any 
State of adulterated or misbranded foods or drugs, whether 
in original unbroken packages or not, which were received 
by him from a wholesaler or manufacturer's agent in the 
same State would not render the dealer liable. The whole- 
saler or manufacturer's agent would be liable in such case 
for his delivery of the goods to the dealer, provided he 
received the goods from outside the State. If, however, the 
dealer receives the goods directly from outside the State 
and delivers such goods in original unbroken packages to 
any other person, he would be liable to the penalties pro- 
vided in this Section. 



i by Google 



4 Purpose and Scope of the Act 

4. Scope of the Act — Original Package . 

So far as concerns the a(^!ication of the Act to dealers 
in any State it is clear that it is essential, in order to con- 
stitute an offense under the Act, that the adulterated or 
misbranded food or drug must have been delivered to an- 
other persiMi in the original uribroken package in which it 
was received from outside the limits of the State. The 
question of what constitutes an original unbroken package, 
is an important one. Under R^ulation 2," original ««- 
broken package is so defined as to include both the wholesale 
and the retail package. Apparently this is intended to in- 
clude, for instance, in canned goods, each individual can as 
well as also the case or box containing, ordinarily, two 
dozen cans. 

There is no doubt that a single can, bottle or other pack- 
age shipped separately, whether the package is suitable for 
the retail trade or not, constitutes an original package. 

Schallenberger vs. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S., i. 

In re Beine, 42 Fed. Rep., 545. 

In re Harmon, 43 Fed, Rep., 372. 

Guckenheimer vs. Sellers, 81 Fed. Rep., 997. 

There is no doubt also that an original package within the 
law of interstate commerce is the package delivered to the 
carrier at the initial point of shipment, in the exact condi- 
tion in which it was shipped. 

In the case of liquors in bottles, if a number are fastened 
together, and maHced or are packed in a box, barrel, crate 
or other receptacle, such bundle, box, barrel, crate or re- 
ceptacle constitutes the original package. 

Guckenheimer vs. Sellers, 81 Fed. Rep., 997. 

If, as indicated in Regulation 2', each unopened can or 
bottle taken from a case or box introduced into a State as a 
single package, is to be considered an original package, its 
sale or delivery to another person must be subject to the 



i by Google 



Original Package. 5 

control of Congress to the exclusion of the State in which 
the sale or delivery takes place and such sale or delivery 
of unopened cans or bottles so introduced into a State and 
being adulterated or misbranded, could not be made the 
basis of prosecution under the food or drug laws of the 
State. A package cannot be an original package for one 
purpose and not for another. If a bottle of whiskey intro- 
duced into a State as one of a number contained in a case 
or box, or a package of oleomargarine, renovated butter or 
filled cheese so introduced into a State, is an original pack- 
age for the purpose of the Foods and Drt^s Act, it is also 
an original package which as such may be sold within a 
State without regard to the requirements or prohibition 
of the laws of the State, except so far as Congress by Act 
of August 8, 1890, applying to liquor, and by Act of May 9, 
1902, applying to oleomargarine, butterine, imitation, pro- 
cess, renovated, or adulterated butter, or imitation cheese, 
etc., has provided that original packages shall not be ex- 
empt from the operation and effect of State laws. 

It seems quite impossible to harmonize the evident mean- 
ing of Regulation 2 as to what constitutes an original pack- 
age with the definition of original package as fixed by the 
decisions of the courts, and it would seem to be a necessary 
conclusion that the scope of this Act extends only to the 
sale or delivery within a State of adulterated or misbranded 
food or drugs in the unbroken original cases or boxes in 
which they passed from outside the State into it. The 
provisions of the Act do not apply to foods or drugs whether 
in original packages or not which are manufactured within 
a State and sold or delivered to another person within that 
State. 
5. Scope of the Act — Inspection of Materials. 

Regulation i6', which provides that the Secretary of 
Agriculture may make inspections, as often as he may deem 
necessary, to determine whether any filthy, decomposed or 



i by Google 



6 Purpose and Scope of the Act. 

putrid substance is used in the manufacture of food or drt^ 
products, and Regulation 8,' which requires that the facto- 
ries in which proprietary foods are make shall be open at all 
reasonable times to the inspection provided for in Regula- 
tion i6,* do not seem to have any basis in the Act. The 
Act does not provide for any such inspection and does not 
provide any penalty for refusal of permission to inspect. 
It is doubtful whether a provision contemplating such in- 
spection of any factory located in a State would be consti- 
tutional unless expressly limited, as in the Meat Inspection 
Law of June 30, 1906, to the inspection of materials used 
in the manufacture of products to be used in interstate or 
foreign commerce, or as in the Act of May 9, 1902, in refer- 
ence to renovated butter, where the article manufactured is 
the subject of a revenue tax. From the fact that inspection 
is expressly authorized in the Acts referred to, while in the 
present Act there is no provision for inspection, it would 
seem clear that no such inspection as provided for in Regula- 
tions 16' and 8' was intended to be authorized. 

From the fact, as hereafter pointed out, that there is noth- 
ing in the Act which authorizes any proceedings to be 
broi^ht for Euiy alleged violation of its provisions except 
upon the result of an analysis or examination of a sample 
or specimen, it would seem clear that no adulteration which 
is not disclosed by analysis or examination of the finished 
food or drug product can be reached or punished under 
the Act, and that no food or drug product can be deemed 
to be misbranded if its label correctly states its character 
or quahty as determined by such analysis or examination, 
whatever means may have been employed to produce the 
finished product. 

6. Scope of the Act — District of Columbia and Ter- 
ritories. 
The provisions of the Act undoubtedly extend to adul- 
terated or misbranded foods or drugs sold or offered for 

<Pas> B6. <P*8e go. 



i by Google 



Purpose and Scope of the Act. 7 

sale in the District of Columbia or the Territories and to 
the exporting or offering for export therefrom of adulter- 
ated or misbranded foods or drugs as well as, under Section 
I, to the manufacture in the District of Columbia or the 
Territories, of adulterated or misbranded foods or drugs, 
irrespective of the question whether or not such adulterated 
or misbranded foods or drugs are offered for sale or for 
export in original packages. There is no constitutional limi- 
tation upon the control by Congress of commerce in the 
District of Columbia or the Territories. The retail grocer 
or other dealer in foods in the District of Columbia, or in 
any Territory, who sells or offers for sale or for export 
food products which are adulterated or misbranded, or 
which are offered for sale under the name of another article, 
whether actually labeled or not, is liable under the provisions 
of the Act equally with a wholesale dealer in such adulter- 
ated or misbranded foods, whether such foods or drugs are 
sold in packages or in bulk ; and a retail druggist or other 
dispenser of drugs in the District of Columbia or in any 
Territory who sells or offers for sale or for ejqwrt drugs 
which are adulterated or misbranded is liable under the 
provisions of the Act, whether he sells them or offers them 
for sale in original packages or in packages put up by 
himself, including physicians' prescriptions. 

7. Scope of the Act — Inspection of Material in Dis- 
trict OF Columbia and Terrttories. 
Regulations 16* and 8* regarding inspection of raw mate- 
rials and inspection of factories in which proprietary foods 
are made, are as above pointed out, page 6, without basis 
in the Act. No doubt such inspection in the District of 
Columbia and Territories could be provided for by Act of 
Congress if deemed of sufficient importance, but as the Act 
now stands no such inspection and no supervision or control 
of the process or method of manufacture of any article of 
food or drug is provided for. It is the finished product as 



i by Google 



8 Purpose and Scope of the Act. 

put upon the market which, and which alone, is required to 
be free from adulteration and not to be misbranded. 

8. Scope of the Act — Stock on Hand January i, 1907. 
The Act took effect January i, 1907. So far as it affects 

dealers in foods or drugs in any State, its provisions apply 
only to adulterated or misbranded foods or drugs introduced 
into the State on or after January 1, 1907. To constitute 
an offense under Section 2 of the Act, the adulterated or 
misbranded foods or drugs must not only have been deliv- 
ered to another person in original unbroken packages on or 
after January i, 1907, but must have been received by the 
dealer from another State on or after January 1, 1907." 

9. Scope of the Act — Correction of Labels on Hand. 
Regulation 17 in paragraph (i) " provides for the correc- 
tion of labels by a supplemental label, stamp, or paster in 
case of labels printed and on hand which do not comply with 
the requirements of the Act. The supplemental label, stamp 
or paster is not necessary on any articles of food or drugs 
which were within the limits of any State prior to January 
I, 1907, and have since that date remained in the State. 
If sent out of the State, they should be provided with sup- 
plemental labels, stamps or pasters if the labels on them 
need to be corrected. Articles of food or drugs offered for 
sale in the District of Coliunbia or the Territories whether 
received in the District or the Territory after January i, 
1907, or prior to that date, should be provided with such 
supplemental labels, stamps, or pasters as may be necessary 
to correct the original label. Articles of foods or drugs 
received in any State on or after January i, 1907, and 
offered for sale in original unbroken packages should be 
provided with supplemental labels, stamps, or pasters if 
necessary to correct the original label in any respect. 

The correction of original labels by means of supple- 
mental labels, stamps or pasters is permitted until October 



i by Google 



Exports. 9 

I, 1907, only. After that date the principal label will 
be required to be correct." 

10. Scope of the Act — Exports. 

The Act is intended to apply to adulterated or misbranded 
foods or drugs exported or offered for export to any foreign 
country from anywhere within the United States.^' The 
Act permits the exporting of foods or drugs which would 
be held adulterated or misbranded if for domestic use, 
provided such exported foods or drugs are not in conflict 
with the laws of the foreign country to which they are 
intended to be shipped and provided also that the foreign 
purchaser not only knows what the foods or drugs contain 
but specifically directs their preparation or packii^. The 
particular purpose of the exception appears to be to per- 
mit the use in certain food products for export to foreign 
countries, of preservatives which are considered deleterious 
under the strict rulings of the Department of Agriculture. 

II. Scope of the Act — Meats and Meat Products. 

Regulation 39'* provides that the regulations shall not 
apply to domestic meat and meat food products. Meats and 
meat food products imported from a foreign country, not 
being provided for under the Meat Inspection Law, are 
held to be subject to the provisions of this Act. 

12. Scope of the Act — Imported Food and Drug 
Products. 
Section 11" of the Act provides for the examination of 
samples of foods and drugs which are being imported Into 
the United States. This Section does not expressly author- 
ize the Secretary of the Treasury to open packages for the 
purpose of taking samples, but this is authorized in the 
Act of March 2, 1901, the provisions of which are repeated 
in subsequent agricultural appropriation Acts, to which the 

»F. I, D. 43, P>g« 107. "See. i, Pife 13. "Page ia>- "Ptgt 81. 



i by Google 



lO Purpose and Scope of the Act. 

present Act is supplemental as regards the matter of im- 
ported foods and drugs. Under Section ii" of the present 
Act provision is made for delivery of imported foods and 
drugs pending examination upon the execution of a penal 
bond. It should be noted that the Secretary of the Treas- 
ury is, under this Section, bound by the result of the 
examination of the samples delivered to the Secretary of 
Agriculture and shall refuse delivery if it appears from the 
samples that the foods or drugs are adulterated or mis- 
branded or are otherwise of a character prohibited by this 
Section, and no provision is made for any appeal, though 
no doubt the action of the Secretary of the Treasury re- 
fusing delivery would be subject to the supervision of the 
courts. 

This section of the Act applies to imported meats and 
meat food products as well as to other food products and 
to drugs. 

Under Sections 2933 to 2938, Revised Statutes, relating 
to imported drugs and medicines provision is made for 
the forfeiture of all medicinal preparations which do not 
bear the true name of the manufacturer and the place where 
they are prepared, and for the refusal of entry to all drugs 
and medicines which are so far adulterated as to render 
them inferior in strength and purity to the standard estab- 
lished by the United States and certain foreign pharmaco- 
poeias. It is understood that these Sections of the Revised 
Statutes are considered to be still in force. 

13. Scope of the Act — Teas. 

Under the Act of March 2, 1897, provision is made for 
inspection of teas imported into the United States, the Act 
prohibiting the importation of any merchandise as tea which 
is inferior in purity, quality and fitness for consumption to 
standards established by a board appointed by the Secretary 
of the Treasury. Under the standards so established the 
coloring of teas is not prohibited and there is no require- 



ibvGooglc 



Imported Foods and Drugs. ii 

ment in the Act referred to that color shall be mentioned 
wi the label. It is understood that the present Act will not 
be construed as preventing the importation or sale in orig- 
inal packages of teas, whether colored or not, which are 
not inferior to the standards established as provided for in 
the Act of March 2, 1897. Colored teas, if repacked within 
the United States and sold in interstate commerce, would 
seem to be subject to the provisions of the present Act as 
regards the use of colors, but unless coloring matter is added 
by the party repacking teas within the United States, the 
matter is not likely to be made the subject of inquiry by 
the Department of Agriculture. 

14. Scope of the Act — Imported Foods and Drugs — 

Regulations. 
The form of the declaration to be signed by the shipper 
and attached to the invoice of food or drug products is pre- 
scribed by Regulation 33." Information as to other mat- 
ters affecting importation of foods and drugs is given in 
Regulations 34 to 38." 

15. Scope of the Act — Seizure in Transit. 

Section 10" of the Act is intended to provide for the 
seizure of any article of food, drug or liquor which is 
adulterated or misbranded, while in process of transporta- 
tion from one State, Territory, District or insular possession 
to another. The intent of this Section is clear, but it is 
not clear how or under what circumstances the seizure may 
be effected. It would seem that the seizure provided for 
by this Section could be made only after and as a result 
of an analysis or examination of a sample or specimen by 
the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture, 
or under its direction and supervision, on which analysis the 
article of food, drug or liquor has been held to be adulterated 
or misbranded. There is nothing in the Act which would 
warrant the bringing of process of libel for condemnation of 

"Pace (00. "Pigei loi-ioa. "Page 80. 



i by Google 



12 Purpose and Scope of the Act 

any article of food, drug or liquor by any district attorney 
except upon a prima facie showing that the provisions of the 
Act had been violated, and no provision is made for any 
showing that the provisions of the Act have been violated 
except the showing provided for in Section 4" based upon 
analysis or examination of a sample or specimen. It is 
hardly likely that any seizure in transit under Section 10 
will be made until further legislation on the matter is had. 

16. Effect of the Act. 

It is probable that so far as concerns production and 
consumption within the States, the Act will not be eflfective 
to suppress the adulteration or misbranding of food and 
drug products until supplemented by State l^islation. Many 
of the States have already adopted laws equally as stringent 
as this Act, some even more stringent, as to what shall be 
deemed adulteration or misbranding. Nearly all of the 
States which have not already adopted such laws are 
likely to do so in the near future. There is a strong 
movement in favor of the general adoption by the States of 
uniform food and drug laws on the lines of this Act, and 
it is probable that this movement will be successful. 



ibvGooglc 



CHAPTER II. 

PROCEDURE UNDER THE ACT. 

17. Collection of Samples. 

The Act does not prescribe in what manner specimens or 
samples of foods and drugs shall be collected, leaving this 
to be provided for by the Rules and Regulations made 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor.** It should 
be noticed that the Act does not provide for the opening 
of packages for the purpose of taking samples, though as 
above pointed out in respect to imported foods and drugs'* 
the Secretary of the Treasury may open packages for this 
purpose. There seems to be no way under the Act by which 
specimens or samples may be collected except by purchase 
and Regulation 3*' indicates no way except by purchase. 

The Act does not contain any provision by which a dealer 
can be compelled to furnish specimens or samples to an 
agent of the Department of Agriculture, even upon tender 
of the price. 

As regards the manner of collecting samples, R^ula- 
tion 3,** being made under the authority of the Act, has the 
force and effect of law and its provisions must be strictly 
complied with by the collector, if proceedings under the Act 
are to be brought upon a specimen or sample collected by 
him. Of the three parts into which the sample is to be 
divided, or of the three packages purchased, one must be 
delivered to the party from whom purchased or to the 
guarantor. This delivery of the one part or package is 
evidently for the purpose of notice to the party from whom 
purchased or the guarantor that proceedings against him 
under the Act are contemplated. It is not required that 



i by Google 



14 Procedure Under the Act 

the delivery of the one part or package to the party from 
whom purchased or to the guarantor should be made im- 
mediately upon the purchase. Evidently it cannot be deliv- 
ered to a guarantor in another State or at a distance without 
considerable delay. It is probable, though not clear from 
the Regulation, that the one part or package in case of 
foods or drugs guaranteed under Section 9,'* should be de- 
livered to the guarantor rather than to the party from whom 
purchased, as the retailer can hardly be considered as an 
agent of the guarantor for the purpose of accepting the im- 
plied notice of contemplated proceedings. If not delivered 
to the guarantor, the guarantor should be notified of the 
collection of the sample and to whom the part or package 
was delivered. It should perhaps be noted that any one 
who, pretending to be an agent of the Department of 
Agriculture, demands samples without offering payment 
therefor is an impostor and should be treated as such. 

The Act contemplates, so far as concerns foods and drugs 
offered for sale in any State other than that in which they 
were manufactured or produced, that the sample shall be an 
unbroken package, or at least be taken from a package which 
is unbroken prior to the taking of the sample. No prosecu- 
tion under the Act can be based on a sample taken from a 
broken package, and it is open to doubt whether a prosecu- 
tion under the Act of a guarantor under Section 9 can be 
hased on a sample taken from a package broken by the 
retailer even for the purpose of furnishing a sample. If an 
original unbroken package is taken as a sample and subse- 
quently opened by an authorized agent of the Department 
of Agriculture, prosecution of a guarantor may no doubt 
be based on such sample. 

In the District of Columbia and in the territories samples 
may be taken either from broken or unbroken packages. 
But for the purpose of prosecution of a guarantor under 
Section 9,", it would seem to be necessary that the sample 
should be from an original unbroken package. 



i by Google 



Analysis or Examination. 15 

18. Colij:ction of Samples — Suggestions . 

The fact that samples are collected should be taken as 
notice that the food or drug of which the sample is taken 
is suspected by the Department of Agriculture of being 
adulterated or misbranded, and whether the manufacturer 
or the dealer who is responsible for the character and 
branding of such foods or drugs knows such suspicicHi to 
be well founded or not, immediate steps should be taken 
to prepare such defense as can be made. If the food or 
drug in question is not known or believed to be adulter- 
ated or misbranded within the definitions of these terras 
accepted by the Department of Agriculture, the part or 
package delivered to the party from whom purchased, or to 
the guarantor, by the collector, should be at once subjected 
to examination by a competent chemist if the character of 
such food or drug is in question, and whether the question 
is one of adulteration or misbranding, the matter should be 
submitted to cotiqjetent legal counsel. 

19. Analysis OR Examination: 

The method of analysis is clearly explained in Regulation 
4", and the course of proceedings after the completion of 
analysis or examination of samples is clearly set forth in 

' R^^ation 5." 

There is no authority under the Act for any publication 
of the notice to the party from whom a sample was ob- 
tained that the examination or analysis shows the provisions 
of the Act have been violated. 

The notice, according to the wording of Section 4," 
is to be given to the party from whom the sample was ob- 
tained. In Regulation 5** this is construed to mean notice 
to the party who is responsible for the adulteration or mis- 
branding, that is, in case of foods or drugs guaranteed as 
provided for in Section 9,** to the guarantor rather than to 

. the retailer from whom the sample was actually purchased. 



■P»ge 84- "P«ge 8s. 



i by Google 



i6 Procedure Under the Act. 

20. Hearing Before the Secretary of Agriculture. 

It is clearly the intent o£ the Act that the fullest possible 
opportunity should be given any party alleged to have 
violated the provisions of the Act, to present in the pre- 
liminary proceedings before the Secretary of Agriculture 
any and all matter of defense which he may have. 

Under the provisions of Section 4," the Secretary of 
Agriculture is required, if it appears that any of the pro- 
visions of the Act have been violated, to at once certify the 
facts to the proper district attorney. At the same time it is 
probable that the Secretary of Agriculture will be warranted 
in considering any matter which may be presented in excuse 
for an unintentional violation of provisions of the Act, and 
will undoubtedly be warranted in considering arguments as 
to meaning and intent of provisions of the Act alleged to 
have been violated, particularly if such provisions of the 
Act are not entirely clear. 

The hearing before the Secretary of Agriculture provided 
for by this Section is of the utmost importance, as, if at 
such hearing matters of defense can be so presented as to 
warrant him in deciding that the examination or analysis 
of the sample is not correct or that there has been no viola- 
tion of any provisions of the Act, or that the facts are 
not such as to require him to certify them to a district at- 
torney, any notice to the public of the fact that the sample 
appears to show adulteration or misbranding, which in it- 
self may be seriously detrimental, may be avoided. 

If the Secretary of Agriculture finds that the facts are 
such that under the provisions of the Act he must certify 
them to the proper district attorney and such district at- 
torney institutes proceedings as provided for in Section 5," 
it will be impossible to avoid some information reachii^ 
the public of at least the fact that such proceedings have 
been instituted. 



DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



21. Proceedings in the Courts. 

The precise nature of the proceedings to be brought by 
the district attorney to whom the Secretary of Agriculture 
may report any violation of the Act is not clearly set forth 
in the Act Presumably it is intended that such district 
attorney should present the matter to the grand jury for 
their action. 

It should be noted that there is no authority under the 
Act for instituting any proceedings for violations of the pro- 
visions of the Act by any district attorney upon his own 
initiative, or upon complaint of any purchaser. Proceedings 
can be instituted only upon the report of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and, as provided in Section 4 the Secretary 
of Agriculture can make such report only after an 
analysis or examination by Govermnent chemists of sam- 
ples collected by authorized agents of the Government, and 
only after notice to the party accused and an opportunity 
given for hearing. The Act does not permit hasty or ill 
considered prosecution, or prosecution arising from malice 
of rivals, and there is nothing in the Act to encourage or 
reward informers. 

22. Publication. 

Official publication of the fact that a manufacturer or 
dealer appears to be or has been adjudged to be responsible 
for adulterated or misbranded foods or drugs can only be 
made after judgment rendered upon proceedings brought 
by a district attorney, the Act in this respect differing from 
some of the State laws which seem to permit the official 
publication of the findings of the State chemist without 
any opportunity being given for a hearing. As above 
pointed out, however, the fact that proceedings have been 
brought by the district attorney can hardly be kept from 
public notice. The publication of the judgment of the court 
holding the food or drug brought before it to be 
adulterated or misbranded will be as provided in 



/' 



ibyGoogle 



i8 Procedure Under the Act. 

paragraph (b) of Regulation 6," by circulars, no- 
tices, or bulletins as the Secretary of Agriculture may direct, 
and will no doubt be so made as to give the fullest possible 
notice to the public that the food or drug in question is 
adulterated or misbranded. The effect of such publication 
will be to practically prevent further sales of such food 
or drug. Any further sale will be likely to be followed 
by prosecution for a second offense. 

Par^raph (c) of Regulation 6" clearly indicates that the 
publication of the judgment will not be withheld on account 
of appeal taken. 



i by Google 



CHAPTER III. 
ARTICLES TO WHICH THE ACT APPLIES. 

23. Articles to Which the Act Applies — Drugs. 

The term "drug" is used in the Act in the broadest pos- 
sible meaning. It includes not only all drugs or medicines, 
either simple or compounded, which are recognized by any 
branch of the medical profession as remedies for internal 
or external use, but all substances or mixtures of substances 
which are offered to the public as remedies for internal or 
external use for the treatment or prevention of any disease 
whatever of man, other animals, poultry, and in general for 
any living creature, and includes physicians' prescriptions. 

The term includes not only what would be generally un- 
derstood as pharmaceutical preparations, plasters, and pro- 
prietary and veterinary medicines, including com cures, lini- 
ments, salves, ointments, and stock foods so-called, but 
also hair tonics, medicinal soap, cold cream or massage 
cream, talc powder, perfumes, toilet preparations generally 
tooth powders and liquid dentrifices. It does not include 
disinfectants and probably does not include bay rum, face 
powder, or smelling salts. 

The line between foods and drugs is not always clear, 
particularly as regards substances which, while sometimes 
used as drugs, are also used as foods or in connection with 
foods for technical purposes. Such substances when sold 
or offered for sale for use as medicine will undoubtedly be 
subject to the requirements of the Act as dn^s, but if 
sold or offered for sale for use as food or for technical 
purposes, will not be subject to the requirements of the Act. 
For instance, turpentine or castor oil, if used as a medicine, 
■will be subject to the requirements of the Act; while tur- 



i by Google 



20 Articles to Which the Act Applies. 

pentine if used for paint or varnish or other industrial pur- 
pose, or castor oil used for a leather dressing will not be 
subject to any requirements of the Act. 

24. Articles to Which the Act Applies — Foods. 

The term "food" as used in the Act expressly includes 
all articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment 
by man or other animals, whether simple, mixed or cont- 
pound. I Hay, grain or other food for animals or poultry 
is undoubtedly included. | 

The term "food" includes meats and meat products, but 
the provisions of the Act will not be construed to apply to 
domestic meats and meat products prepared, transported or 
sold in interstate or foreign commerce imder the Meat In- 
spection Law, that is meat of cattle, sheep, swine, and goats. 
Poultry and Ash and other sea food of domestic or foreign 
production is subject to the provisions of this Act. Im- 
ported meats and meat products are subject to the provisions 
of this Act. 

Sugar, salt and spices will be subject to the requirement 
of the Act as foods generally, thoi^h if used as medicines 
or in connection with medicines, they will no doubt be 
subject to the requirements for drugs if necessary. 

Flavoring extracts will be considered foods, but extracts 
used as medicines will be considered drugs, not foods. 

Chewing gum will no doubt be considered as broadly a 
food and specifically as confectionery. 

Coffee and tea are considered foods. 

Liquors, wines and beverages of all kinds are considered 
foods. 

Mineral waters and drinking waters generally are in- 
cluded under the term food. 

Milk is, of course, included. 



i by Google 



CHAPTER IV. 
ADULTERATION. 

25. Adulteration. 

To the manufacturer of or dealer in food or drug pro- 
ducts it is of the utmost importance to clearly understand 
what is meant by "adulteration" and "misbranding" as 
used in the Act Adulteration in its ordinary definition of 
making impure by admixture of cheaper or inferior ingre- 
dients is obviously included, but it Is also evident that the 
term as used in the Act has a broader meaning and in- 
cludes the use in food or drt^ products of substances not 
ordinarily considered adulterants. Broadly speaking, the 
Act prohibits as adulterated any food or drug product that 
is below an established or recognized standard of strength, 
quality, or purity, or that contains any added ingredient 
which is deleterious or detrimental to health, or which 
contains any substance specifically prohibited by the Act. 
To this broad statement there are many exceptions provided 
for in the Act, and in fact the Act is not to be understood 
as absolutely prohibiting adulterated foods or drugs even 
in the ordinary sense of adulteration provided they are 
plainly and correctly labeled or branded. It does, however, 
prohibit all adulterated foods or drugs which are not plainly 
and correctly labeled or branded in accordance with the 
requirements of the Act, and absolutely prohibits the use 
of certain substances in foods or drugs, whether specified 
on the label or not. 

26. Adulteration — Drugs — Drug Standards . 

In order to determine whether or not an article of food 
or drug shall be considered to be adulterated within the 



i by Google 



22 Adulteration. 

meaning of the Act, it is necessary to compare it with some 
standard definition or description of the article in question, 
either a generally accepted definition or a definition or de- 
scription arbitrarily adopted as a standard. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formu- 
lary is accepted by the Act as correctly defining or describing 
the strength, quality, and purity of each drug named in it. 
Unless otherwise plainly stated on its label, any drug sold 
or offered for sale under or by the name of a drug which 
is defined or described in the Pharmacopoeia or National 
Formulary must conform to the standard of strength, qual- 
ity, and purity as determined by the test for such drug 
therein laid down. 

If plainly stated to differ in strength, quality, or purity 
from the definition or description stated in the Phanna- 
cf^Kfiia or National Formulary a drug will not.be deemed 
adulterated provided it is plainly stated on the label what 
its standard of strength, quahty, or purity is, and if in fact it 
conforms to the statement on the label. With regard to 
mixtures of substances put up according to a recognized 
formula, but of half strength, it will be sufficient if the pack- 
age or bottle is marked "^ Strength." 

The first paragraph of Section 7" under "drugs" appears 
to relate to substances and mixtures of substances sold under 
or by a name recognized in the Pharmacopoeia or National 
Formulary, 

The second paragraph'* relates to drugs generally, 
whether named in the Pharmacopteia or National Formu- 
lary or not, and is clearly intended to include the so-called 
"Patent" or proprietary medicines. It requires that these 
as well as all drugs must be in strength and purity up to 
the professed standard or quality under which they are 
sold. 

In the States the requirements of this Section apply only 
to drugs in original unbroken packages and not to physi- 
cians' prescriptions compounded within the State in which 



i by Google 



Foods — Food Standards. 23 

they are sold, but does apply to prescriptions which are 
shipped out of the State."* 

In the District of Columbia and the Territories the re- 
quirements of this Section apply to drugs in original un- 
broken packages, and also apply to prescriptions com- 
pounded in the District or the Territory. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary 
to be taken as determining the standard is prescribed by 
this section to be that official at the time of investigation. 
It is understood that the Pharmacopceia is now being or is 
about to be revised. 

27. Adulteration — Foods — Food Standards . 

The present Act does not expressly adopt or authorize 
the establishment of any standards for food products. Un- 
der the Agricultural Appropriation Act of March 3, 1903, 
provision is made for the investigation of the adulteration 
of foods, condiments, beverages and drugs and also "to en- 
able the Secretary of Agriculture in collaboration with the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists, and such 
other experts as he may deem necessary, to establish stand- 
ards of purity for food products and to determine what are 
regarded as adulteration therein," and in accordance with 
the provisions of that Act the Department of Agriculture 
has published as Circular No, 19** standards of purity for a 
large number of food products, and standards for other food 
products are in preparation. 

The standards as published in this circular No. 19,** with 
a few exceptions, such as ice cream in which the percentage 
of butter fat required (14^), is considered by many manu- 
facturers to be too high, appear to have been generally re- 
garded as correctly describing the various articles of food 
mentioned in it as manufactured and sold by those who aim 
to manufacture or to deal in pure food products. While 
it is doubtful whether the standards established under the 
authority of the Act of March 3, 1903, are controlling as 



"F. I. D. J7, Pace i: 



i by Google 



24 Adulteration. 

determining what shall be deemed adulterations of food 
products under the present Act, such standards are entitled 
to great weight and will be r^arded by the Courts in any 
proceedings brought under this Act, as persuasive if not 
authoritative. In so far as these standards conform in their 
definition of various articles of food to the standard recog- 
nized in the trade, the "Trade Description" as it is termed 
in the British Merchandise Marks Act, they will be r^jarded 
as the standards by comparisons with which adulterations 
are to be determined. 

28. Adulteration — Foods — Admixture of Inferior In- 
gredients . 

Under the first and second par^^raphs under "food" in 
Section 7,'^ an article of food is to be deemed adulterated if 
any substance has been mixed or packed with it so as to 
reduce, or lower, or injuriously affect its quality or strength, 
or if any substance has been substituted wholly or in part 
for it. 

The adulteration prohibited by these paragraphs is the 
common form of adulteration consisting in the admixture or 
substitution in food products of a cheaper or inferior, though 
not necessarily or usually harmful, substance, a species of 
commercial fraud by which the food value of the product 
is lessened, the object of such adulteration being to reduce 
the cost to the producer and to enable him by passing it 
off upon the consumer as of full value, to secure a larger 
profit than could be made by furnishing an article of stand- 
ard quality and strength. 

Among the food products which have heretofore been 
found to be particularly liable to this form of adulteration 
are milk, vinegar, flavoring extracts, confectionery, jellies, 
jams, preserves, cocoa, honey, butter, molasses, spices, cof- 
fee, olive oil, and baking powder. 

If the adulteration is carried to the extent of wholly sub- 



i by Google 



Adulteration. 25 

stituting another substance for the pure article it clearly 
comes under the prohibition of the first paragraph. If not 
carried to the extent of complete substitution, it would seem 
to be covered by either paragraph, the second paragraph 
appearing to cover such substitution whether or not the 
quality or strength is reduced, or lowered, or injuriously 
affected. A claim that the product resulting from the ad- 
nsixture of another substance is better or more wholesome 
than the pure article is clearly no defense to a charge of 
violation of these or any other provisions of the Act. 

These paragraphs of this Section of the Act are to be 
read with Section 8** relating to misbranding under which 
mixtures, compounds, imitations or blends are permitted if 
plainly so labeled. 

Construing these paragraphs of Section 7*' with Section 
8,** they appear to prohibit the admixture with or substi- 
tution in an article of food of any mineral substance, or any 
inert substance, and to prohibit the admixture of any sub- 
stance imless the resulting product is plainly stated to be a 
mixture, compound or blend and the name of the added sub- 
stance is also stated. 

Prc^rietary foods** seem to be excepted from the provi- 
sions of these two paragraphs of Section 7 if known under 
their own distinctive names and not an imitation of or of- 
fered for sale under the distinctive name of another article, 
provided the name be accompanied with a statement of the 
place of manufacture. 

Imitation foods" seem to be also excepted from the provi- 
sions of these paragraphs of Section 7 if plainly stated to be 
imitations. 

Under Regulaticm li,*' these paragraphs of Section 7 are 
C(»istrued not to prohibit substances properly used in the 
preparation of food products for clarification or refining and 
eliminated in the further process of manufacture. This 
regulation clearly indicates, as has been above pointed out, 



i by Google 



26 Adulteration. 

that the only food or drug that can be made the basis 
for proceedings under the Act, is the finished product and 
unless the specimen or sample collected as provided in Regu- 
lation 3 is shown on analysis to contain an adulterant or 
other prohibited substance tt cannot be held to be adulter- 
ated. 

It is not to be understood that these paragraphs or any- 
thing in the Act prohibits the addition of water or other 
proper diluent wherever necessary to reduce an article 
which is above standard strength to standard strength as, 
for instance, the addition of water to whiskey which is above 
proof for the purpose of reducing it to proof as expressly 
permitted under the Act of March 3, 1897. 

29. Adulteration — Foods — ^Abstraction of Valuable 
Constituent . 

Under the third paragraph" under "food" in Section 7, a 
food product from which a valuable constituent has been 
wholly or in part abstracted is to be deemed adulterated. 

Regulation 26," regarding the sale of waste material, 
though not designated as bearing upon this paragraph of 
Section 7, should evidently be read in connection with it. 
This paragraph seems capable of being read to prohibit the 
sale of skimmed milk or cheese made from skimmed milk. 
It is clear from R^:ulation 26, as well as from the general 
tenor of Section 8,** that nothing in the Act will be con- 
strued to prohibit the sale of skimmed milk or any other 
article from which any valuable constituent has been ab- 
stracted provided the skimmed milk or other article is 
sold or offered for sale for what it is and not as containing 
all of the constituents originally contained. 

The Act does not contemplate or intend to prohibit the 
sale as food of anjthing which is whdesome, provided it 
is not sold under any misrepresentation. 



i by Google 



Concealment of Damage or Inferiority. 27 

30. Adulteration, Foods — Concealment of Damage or 
Inferiority . 
Under the fourth paragraph" under "food" in Section 
7, any article of food which is damaged or inferior which 
has been so treated by mixing, coloring, powdering, coating 
or staining as to conceal the damage or inferiority, is to be 
demed adulterated. 

(a) Mixed. The term "mixed" appears to refer to the 
mixing of different substances to form what are referred to 
in Section 8 as mixtures, c(»npounds or blends. The mix- 
ing of substances, cme of which is damaged or inferior, in 
such a manner or in such proportions as to conceal such 
damage or inferiority is clearly prohibited. 

(b) Colored. The use of coloring matter, whether in 
itself harmless or not, is prohibited by the paragraph if 
its effect is to conceall damage or inferiority. The use 
of coloring matter in food products is not prohibited pro- 
vided the coloring matter is harmless and is not used to 
conceal inferiority. The coloring of butter is expressly 
permitted by the Act of August 2, 1886, and the coloring of 
cheese is permitted by the Act of June 6, 1896, neither of 
which Acts are repealed by the present Act. 

Harmless vegetable colors may be used for coloring foods 
and certain of the coal tar or analine colors may be used 
under the conditions and restrictions prescribed by the Sec- 
retary of Agriculture.** But neither harmless vegetable 
colors nor permissible analine colors may be used if their use 
makes a damaged article appear to be sound or makes an 
article of inferior quality or character appear to be free 
frtMn damage or of standard quality or character. The color- 
ing of milk to make it appear richer than it is would be 
adulteration under this paragraph. 

(c). Powdered. Under Regulation 12" (b) and (c), 
any article of food which is reduced to a powder to con- 

"P«ge 7?- *P«Be 89. "Page 88. 



i by Google 



28 Adulteration. 

ceal damage or inferiority in character or quality, will be 
deemed to be adulterated. Also any article of food to the 
exterior of which any powdered substance is applied with 
the effect of concealing damage or inferiority in character 
or quality will be deemed to be adulterated. 

(d.) Coated. Under Regulation 12" (d), any article of 
food to the exterior of which is applied a coating of any 
substance with the result of concealing damage or inferior- 
ity will be deemed to be adulterated. 

(e). Stained. Under Regulation 12" (e), any article 
of food which is exteriorly colored or tinted by the appli- 
cation of any substance with the result of concealing damage 
or inferiority will be deemed to be adulterated. 

This paragraph is clearly so worded that its violation 
may be determined by examination or analysis of the fin- 
ished product The result rather than the intent is the 
thing to be considered under this paragraph, and the same 
is true of all of the provisicsis regarding both adulteration 
and misbranding. It is the finished product, whether food 
or drug, and the finished product only, up<»i which pro- 
ceedings under the Act can be based. 

31. Adulteration — Foods — Colors and Preservatives: 

Paragraph five under "food" of Section 7" provides that 
any article of food to which any poisonous or deleterious 
ingredient which may render it injurious to health has been 
added, shall be deemed to be adulterated. An exception 
is made with regard to preservatives applied to the exterior 
of an article of food in such a way that they do not pene- 
trate the interior or any portion of the interior and must 
be removed either mechanically or by maceration in water 
or otherwise before the article to which they are applied can 
be used as food. 

This paragraph applies only to poisonous or deleterious 
ingredients which are added to the food product. Any in- 

■Fiige 88. "^age 88. "P««e jj. 



i by Google 



Colors and Preservatives. 29 

gredient, whether poisonous or deleterious or not, which is 
naturally present in fruit or other food material does not 
render a food product adulterated. The distinction is a 
necessary one, otherwise the use of certain fruits, for in- 
stance peaches or cranberries, would be prohibited by the 
Act, since the acids which these and some other fruits con- 
tain naturally, would be poisonous or deleterious if used in 
concentrated form, though in the minute quantities in which 
they are present in the fruit, they are not harmful to per- 
sons in normal health if harmful at all. 

This paragraph clearly prohibits the use in food products 
of colors or preservatives which are poisonous or deleterious, 
and permits the iwe of only those colors or preservatives 
which are harmless. The paragraph does not make any 
exception as to colors or preservatives which are harmless 
if used in certain proportions, but are poisonous or deleteri- 
ous if used in greater proportion, unless this is implied by 
the words "which may render such article injurious to 
health." 

The Act does not expressly prescribe what colors or 
preservatives shall be deemed to be poisonous or deleterious, 
nor does it expressly authorize anyone to determine what 
colors or preservatives shall be deemed to be poisonous or 
deleterious. The Act does provide in Section 3" that the 
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture and 
the Secretary of Commerce and Labor shall make rules and 
regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Act, and 
acting under this provision the Secretaries have, by Regula- 
tion 15,'* delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture the 
duty of determining the wholesomeness of colors, preserva- 
tives and other substances which are added to foods, with 
the proviso that the findings of the Secretary of Agriculture 
when approved by the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of Commerce and Labor shall become a part 
of the Regulations. Any determination by the Secretary of 



i by Google 



20 Adulteration. 

Agriculture of the wholesomeness of colors, preservatives 
and other substances which are added to foods, whether 
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secre- 
tary of Commerce and Labor or not, while no doubt entitled 
to great weight, is not binding upon the courts. Manufac- 
turers of food products who use only the colors or preserva- 
tives which are approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, 
will avoid any risk of prosecution under the Act. Those 
who choose to use colors or preservatives not authorized 
by the Secretary of Agriculture take the chances of prose- 
cution, but if able to show to the satisfaction of the court 
that the colors or preservatives are not in fact poisonous 
or deleterious, will not be held guilty of violation of the 
provisions of the Act so far as their use of such colors 
or preservatives is concerned. 

In Regulation 39 of the Regulations governing the Meat 
Inspection of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, the pre- 
servatives permitted to be used in meats or meat products 
ai'e "common salt, sugar, wood smoke, vinegar, pure spices, 
and, pending further inquiry, saltpeter." No colors may 
be used in meats or meat food products except such as may 
be approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, 

Under the present Act the preservatives authorized to be 
used in meats and meat food products will be permitted to 
Ik used in food products, and certain other preservatives 
will be permitted under prescribed conditions and in pre- 
scribed quantities or proportion. 

It is probable that benzoate of soda will be permitted 
to be used for a limited term of years in quantities not ex- 
ceeding i/io of I per cent in catsup and perhaps a few other 
foods, and that the use of sulphurous acid for bleaching pur- 
poses in the manufacture of syrup and dried fruits will also 
be permitted, provided the sulphurous acid remaining in the 
syrup or the dried fruits does not exceed a prescribed per- 
centage. 

It is probable that a few of the analtne colors claimed to 
be harmless will be permitted to be used for at least a lim- 



i by Google 



Colors and Preservatives. 31 

ited period, but particular care will be required to be taken 
by the user of such permitted analine colors to be certain 
that such colors are free from deleterious matter and have 
been proved to be in fact harmless. 

In case any of the preservatives which are permitted to 
be used, other than those permitted under the Meat In- 
spection Law, or any of the permitted analine colors, are 
used, the fact of their use and probably the proportion in 
which they are used will be required to be stated on the 
label. 

Definite rulings on the matter of preservatives and colors 
have not yet been issued. 

Under the exception in paragraph 5" permitting the 
use of extendi preservatives, rice may be finished by coating 
with one-thousandth part glucose and one three-thousandth 
part talc, provided each pocket of rice is provided with a 
tag stating the fact with direction to remove the coating by 
washing, together with the name of the manufacturer and 
his place of business. Paraffin, not being removable by 
washing, may not be used in milling rice. Boric acid, even 
if applied externally as a preservative, will not be permitted, 
it being considered that it cannot be so used without more 
or less permeation of the food article to which it is applied. 

32. Adulteration — Foods — Prohibited Coloeis and 
Preservatives . 
Preservatives and colors other than those expressly per- 
mitted cannot be used in food products without rendering 
the products liable to be held adulterated. Among the 
preservatives or other substances deemed to be poisonous or 
deleterious and thus, in effect, forbidden to be added to 
food products, may be mentioned : 

Benzoic Acid (except as above page 30). 

Boric Acid. 

Formaldehyde. 



i by Google 



32 Adulteration. 

Glycogen, 
Saccharine. 
Salycilic Acid. 
Sodium Sulphate. 
Sulphate of Copper, 

All mineral colors and all analine colors other than those 
expressly permitted are prohibited. 

33. Adulteration — Foods — Effect of Rulings . 

It should be distinctly understood that the rulings of the 
Secretary of Agriculture in the matter of colors and pre- 
servatives are not made as absolutely decisive upon the ques- 
. lions ruled on. The final determination upon these ques- 
tions rests with the courts. The Secretary of Agriculture, 
however, as regards the enforcement of the provisions of 
the Act occupies the double position of complainant and 
magistrate before whom the complaint is preliminarily 
heard with power to hold the accused for trial by a United 
States court. It obviously follows that with regard to the 
use of particular colors or preservatives as well as with re- 
gard to other matters provided for in the Act, if the 
Secretary of Agriculture holds that such colors or preserva- 
tives may be used there will be no complaint and no proceed- 
ings before the court. On the other hand, if the ruling of 
the Secretary of Agriculture does not permit the use of the 
color or preservative in question he may institute proceed- 
ings and hold the accused for trial by the courts. Unless 
a manufacturer is confident that the holdings of the courts 
will be contrary to the rulings of the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture, it will be advisable to accept his rulings, 

34. Adulteration — Foods — Character of Raw Mate- 

rials. 
Under the sixth paragraph,** under "food" in Section 7, 
a food product will be deemed to be adulterated if it con- 

"Pm" 77! pm« >«■ 



DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



Confectionery. 33 

sists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed or putrid 
animal or vegetable substance or any portion of an animal 
unfit for food, or if it is the product of a diseased animal 
or one that has died other than by slaughter. 

The language of the paragraph is clear and positive. 
There is no doubt that proceedings should be and will be 
broi^ht against anyone violating its provisions. It is not, 
however, clear that proceedings can be brought even under 
this paragraph unless the sample or specimen collected in 
the regular way shows on examination or analysis that 
the provisions of the paragraph have been violated. It is, 
however, probable that any product made in violation of 
this paragraph will show upon examination or analysis that 
it is composed in whole or in part of prohibited material as 
such material can hardly be concealed unless by mixing, 
powdering, coating or staining, in which case the product 
will violate the fourth paragraph.*' 

This paragraph undoubtedly covers milk which is unfit 
for use because of filth or which is the product of diseased 
cows, and probably also covers mineral or other drinking 
water which is' unfit for use because of the presence of 
filth or decomposed animal or vegetable substance, as well, 
of course, covering any other food product unfit for use be- 
cause of filth. 

35. Adulteration — Foods — Confectionery. 

All of the above considered provisions respecting foods 
apply also to confectionery. In addition, the presence in 
confectionery of certain substances, some of which may be 
used in other food products, will cause it to be deemed adul- 
terated. 

The term "confectionery" is not defined in the Act or 
in the Food Standard Bulletin of the Department of Agri- 
culture, circular No. 19." 

In the bulletin referred to, "Candy" is defined as "A 

"P«e 77- "Pw 148. 



i by Google 



34 , Adulteration, 

product made from a saccharine substance or substances, 
with or without the addition of harmless coloring, flavoring 
or filling materials, and contains no terra alba, barytes, talc, 
chrome yellow, or other mineral substances or poisonous 
color or flavors or other ingredients deleterious or detri- 
mental to health, or any vinous, malt or spirituous liquors or 
compounds or nacotic drug." 

Probably chewing gum and ice cream will both be sub- 
ject to the provisions regarding confectionery, 

■This section of the Act clearly prohibits the use in con- 
fectionery of any mineral substance whatever, including 
paraffin and all mineral colors. Whether coal tar or analine 
•colors and flavors are mineral substances seems to be a 
•controverted question, but the coal tar or analine colors 
held by the Secretary of Agriculture to be permissible may 
be used in confectionery under the conditions prescribed 
and for the period therein stated. 

Vegetable colors and Havors may be used in confectionery 
provided they are harmless. 

Saccharine may not be used in confectionery. 

Gelatin if free from bisulphates or other deleterious ingre- 
dients may be used in confectionery. 

Glucose containing bisulphates may not be used. 

Bleachers or hardeners containing bisulphates may not 
be used in confectionery. 

Shellac may be used in glossing candy provided the 
alcohol in which it is dissolved is so completely evaporated 
as to leave no trace on or in the candy. 

Vaseline or other harmless fats and oils may be used 
in finishing confectionery. 

In chewing gum paraffin or chicle may undoubtedly be 
used provided the soluble ingredients, sugar, color, flavor, 
etc., conform to the requirements of the Act. 

No vinous, malt, or spirituous liquors or compound may 
be used in confectionery. This does not exclude the use 
of flavoring extracts or the use of vinous, malt or spirit- 



DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



Confectionery. 35 

uous liquors or compounds for flavoring merely, provided 
there is no trace of alcohol in the finished product 

No drug of a narcotic nature may be used in confec- 
tioneiy. This prohibits not only all of the dn^s mentioned 
in Section 8*^ and their derivatives as stated in Regulation 
28 (f)'* but all other drugs of a narcotic nature. 



i by Google 



MISBRANDING. 

36. Misbranding in General. 

The provisions contained in Section 8" are the most im- 
portant provisions of the Act. The Act prohibits adul- 
teration and defines in Section 7 what shall be deemed adul- 
teration, but there is nothing in Section 7*° or in any Section 
of the Act which requires either foods or drugs to con- 
form to any standard of strength, quality or purity, pro- 
vided the food or drugs are sold or offered for sale for 
what they really are, and provided, of course, that they 
are not of a character which renders them unfit for use. 

The main purpose of the Act is not necessarily to secure 
uniformity in food or drug products or to prevent the sale 
of substandard or even inferior foods or drugs, but to pre- 
vent the passing off upon the public of substandard or in- 
ferior foods or drugs labeled or branded or otherwise rep- 
resented to be of standard quality, strength or purity. 

Perhaps the best test of "misbranding" so far at least 
as concerns foods and drugs not subject to specific provi- 
sions of the Act, is the test prescribed in the Trademark 
Act of February 20, 1905, for determining the registrability 
of a trademark. In order to be registrable, a trademark 
must not so closely resemble a trademark owned or in use 
by another and applied to merchandise of the same de- 
scriptive properties "as to be likely to cause confusion or 
mistake in the mind of the public or to deceive purchasers." 

Foods or drugs which bear a label or brand which 
correctly states the contents of the package in such a way as 
not "to be likely to cause confusion or mistake in the mind 



i by Google 



False Trade Description, 37 

of the public or to deceive purchasers" cannot be held to 
be misbranded. 

37. Misbranding — False Trade Description . 

The first paragraph of Section 8" appears to prohibit, 
in connection with foods or drugs, the use of what is 
termed in the British Merchandise Marks Act of 1887, a 
"false trade description." In view of the fact that in gen- 
eral purpose and to a considerable extent in language, the 
present Act is closely analogous to the Merchandise Marks 
Act, it is not unlikely that the numerous decisions of the 
English courts on the Merchandise Marks Act, while in no 
sense controlling, will be entitled to considerable weight 
in the construction and application of the present Act by 
the United States courts. 

Under the Merchandise Marks Act, 1887, every person 
is subject to the provisions of the Act who 

(d) applies any false trade description to goods, 

and the Act defines "trade description" as follows: 

The expression "trade description" means any de- 
scription, statement, or other indication, direct or in- 
direct. 

(a) as to the number, gauge, or weight of any 
goods, or 

(b) as to the place or country in which any goods 
were made or produced, or 

(c) as to the mode of manufacturing or producing 
any goods, or 

(d) as to the material of which any goods are com- 
posed, or 

(e) as to any goods being the subject of an existing 
patent privilege or copyright, 

and the use of any figure, word, or mark which, 
according to the custom of the trade is commonly 
taken to be an indication of any of the above 
matters, shall be deemed to be a trade description 



i by Google 



38 Misbranding. 

within the meaning of the Act. The expres- 
sion "False Trade Description" means a trade de- 
scription which is false in a material respect as regards 
the goods to which it is applied, and includes every 
alteration of a trade description, whether by way of 
addition, effacement, or otherwise, where that alteration 
makes the description false in a material respect, and 
the fact that a trade description is a trademark, or part 
of a trademark, shall not prevent such trade descrip- 
tion being a false description within the meaning of 
this Act. 

The provisions of this Act respecting the application 
of a false description t6 goods shall extend to the 
application to goods of any such figures, words, or 
marks, or arrangement or combination thereof, whether 
including a trademark or not, as are reasonably calcu- 
lated to lead persons to believe that the goods are the 
manufacture or merchandise of some person other than 
the person whose manufacture or merchandise they 
really are. 

The Merchandise Marks Act provides that its provisions 
respecting "false trade description" shall extend to the ap- 
plication to goods, of a false name or initials, which it de- 
fines as meaning 

any name or initials of a person which 

*•*******•♦ 

(c) are either those of a fictitious person or of some 
person not bona fide carrying on business In connection 
with such goods. 

It seems to be clear that the first paragraph of Section 8 
of the present Act is intended to prohibit the use of the 
"false trade description" and false name or initials of the 
merchandise, and is perhaps capable of being construed to 
also prohibit statements, designs or devices which would 
not be within these terms of the British Act, 

It should be noted that, while the Merchandise Marks Act 
provides that it shall be a sufficient defense if the defendant 



i by Google 



Prior U. S. Statutes. 39 

charged with applying a false trade description to goods 

shows 

(b) that he took reasonable precautions against com- 
mitting the offense charged, and 

(c) that he had at the time of the commission of 
the alleged offense, no reason to suspect the genuineness 
of the trademark or trade description. 

The present Act does not distinguish between wilful mis- 
branding and unintentional misbranding. If the label or 
brand on the sample or specimen collected as provided for 
is false or misleading in any particular, the person respon- 
sible for such misbranding is liable imder the Act without 
r^ard to the question of intent. 

38. Misbranding — Prior U. S. Statutes . 

The Act of August 14, 1876, makes the counterfeiting 
of a registered trademark and the selling or offering for 
sale of goods hearing a fraudulent trademark an offense 
punishable by fine or imprisonment. The Act then in force 
providing for the registration of trademarks was, in 1879, 
held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, because it was 
not limited to trademarks used in interstate or foreign com- 
merce, and it has been generally considered that the Act of 
August 14, 1876, became obsolete and is now without force 
or effect While Trademark Registration Acts were subse- 
quently adt^ted, in 1881 and in 1905, there has been up 
to the present time no re-enactment of a law providing for 
the punishment of counterfeiting trademarks. The Act of 
July I, 1902, prohibits, under penalty, the introduction into 
any State, or Territory, or the District of Columbia, from 
any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, 
of any dairy or food products falsely labeled or branded as 
to the State or Territory in which they are made, produced 
or grown. The marking or branding of oleomargarine, 
butterine, renovated butter, filled cheese, mixed flour and in 
certain respects of distilled and fermented liquors are r^u- 



i by Google 



40 Misbranding. 

lated by Statute, and the misbranding of imported foods or 
drugs is prohibited by Statute. But the present Act is the 
first Act of general application to all food and drug pro- 
ducts, whatever their origin, which prohibits misbranding. 

39. Misbranding — False or Misleading Statement — 
Design or Device. 
The first paragraph of Section 8," applying generally to 
both food and drug products, prohibits the use on the pack- 
age or label of anything whatever which is calculated to 
deceive or mislead a possible purchaser as to the character 
or quality of the article to which it is applied, or as to the 
source from which it is derived. A purchaser may be mis- 
lead by pictorial matter as much as by direct statement in 
words, and may be as much deceived by omission to state 
facts of which he should be informed as by absolutely false 
statements. Food products which are prepared according 
to usual and generally understood processes and in which 
only the ordinary preservatives such as sugar, vinegar, salt, 
spices, or wood smcJce are used need no statement to explain 
what they are nor is any explanation needed when food pro- 
ducts contain only the color natural to them. But in the 
case of food products in which preservatives not commonly 
used and with which the general purchaser is not likely to 
be familiar, are used, or in which artificial colors are used, 
the purchaser has a right to know what preservatives or 
colors are used, and omission of such statement as to pre- 
servatives or colors as may be necessary to enable him to 
correctly inform himself as to the character and quality 
of the article offered him, is calculated to deceive and should 
not be permitted, and is not intended to be permitted by 
Section 8'* of the Act. By necessary implication the first 
paragraph of this Section warrants the requirement that arti- 
ficial color or preservatives other than those usually em- 
ployed shall be stated on the label and wherever material 
to a proper understanding of the character and quality of 



ly Google 



False or Misleading Statements. 41 

the product, the quantity or proportion of such color or pre- 
servative should be stated. 

It is not usually of material importance to the purchaser 
that he be informed of the locality of origin of the article 
offered him or of the name of the manufacturer. A stand- 
ard drug product or medicinal preparation is hardly likely 
to be modified in character by climatic or other local condi- 
tions, or by a particular manufacturer, and the same is 
generally true of food products and it is not, therefore, 
material that the locality of origin or the name of the manu- 
fecturer should be stated on the label. But if either is 
stated it is fairly to be assumed that in the particular case 
the locality of origin or the name of the manufacturer has 
a distinct bearing upon the character or quality of the pro- 
duct, and if stated should be correctly stated. 

Pictorial matter on a label may be calculated to convey a 
false impression as to the character or quality of the con- 
tents of the package as, for instance, if pictures of honey 
bees or beehives are placed upon packages containing imita- 
tion or adulterated honey, or if pictures of maple leaves 
or maple sugar camps are placed upon syrups or sugars 
which are not pure maple, or if pictures of coffee plants or 
coffee plantations are placed on preparations that are not 
pure coffee. All such pictorial representations, designs or 
devices are clearly prohibited under this paragraph of Sec- 
tion 8." 

With r^ard to drugs, particularly proprietary remedies, 
the rulings of the Department of Agriculture are likely to 
be strict as to what constitutes a false or misleading state- 
ment as to the quality. A statement on a package or label 
that the preparation is a "cure" for the disease for the 
treatment of which it is offered, is more than likely to be 
considered misbranding, particularly if the diseases which 
the preparation is stated to "cure" are generally considered 
to be incurable. The use of the words "Remedy for" in- 
stead of "cure" is understood to be permissible. 



"Page rS. 



i by Google 



43 Misbranding. 

Statements on packages or labels which assert for the- 
preparation curative properties beyond what is warranted by 
actiwl fact are likely to be deemed false and misleading. 

40. Misbranding — Trademarks . 

The fact that a design or device used on a padcage or 
label has been registered as a trademark is not sufficient 
to warrant its use in any manner which is calculated to 
deceive. It is well settled by numerous decisions that the 
courts will not protect trademarks or labels, whether regis- 
tered or not, which are deceptive as to the character or 
quality of the goods on which they are used. 

The langimge of this paragraph is clearly capable of being 
construed to prohibit the use on a package or label of a 
"design" or "device" which Is a counterfeit, copy or color- 
able imitation of a trademark which is recognized in the 
trade as distinguishing the goods of another manufacturer 
or dealer. The importance to the public of prohibiting 
a dishonest manufacturer or dealer from passing off hts 
goods, probably inferior, as goods which are well known 
to be of superior character or quality, by so marking them 
that the purchaser will be deceived, is not less than the 
importance of prohibiting the use of false indications of 
origin 

41. Misbranding — Name of Manufacturer — Ficti- 
tious Names. 

The name of the manufacturer need not be stated on the 
label. If stated at all it must be correctly stated. If the 
name of any person, firm, or corporation not actually the 
manufacturer appears on a label without words indicating 
that such name is not to be understood as the name of the 
manufacturer, the goods may be held to be misbranded. The 
name of the wholesaler, jobber, agent, importer, distributor 
or retailer may appear on the label, provided it is accom- 
panied by words like "packed for," "distributed by," "im- 
porter," "agent," which will indicate that the name which 



i by Google 



Fictitious Names. 43; 

appears is not to be understood as purporting to be the 
name of the manufacturer. There is nothing in the Act 
which is intended to restrict the use of private brands or 
to require the name of the actual manufacturer or packer ta 
appear on the label provided the name of the owner of the 
private brand, who is not the manufacturer or packer, is- 
not so used as to falsely indicate that he is the manufacturer 
or packer. 

While, as regards the name of the manufacturer, the Act 
does not expressly prohibit the use of fictitious names ott 
labels, and while fictitious names are not expressly men- 
tioned in the Rules and Regulations, there is no doubt that 
the Department of Agriculture will construe the language 
of the Act to prohibit the use, on foods or drugs, of any- 
fictitious name which purports to be the name of the manu- 
facturer. 

The language of the Act is clearly capable of this con- 
struction and there is no doubt that in case of certain food' 
products, particularly olive oil, fictitious names and false 
indications of origin have been used to pass off upon the 
public inferior goods. It is not clear that the use of ficti- 
tious names by packers of canned goods in this country to 
indicate a grade of their goods inferior to the goods put 
out under their proper names, has actually deceived the pub- 
lic. But whether actually deceptive or not, it is clear that 
the use of fictitious names on any food or drug products will 
not be permitted, and, as it is probable that the Department 
of Agriculture would be sustained in its position by the 
courts, it is advisable that the use of fictitious names on food 
or drug products should be discontinued. 

It should, however, be understood that a name which a 
manufacturer or packer has the right to use as successor 
or assignee is not to be considered a fictitious name. 

42. Misbranding — False Indication of Origin. 

There is nothing in the Act which requires the name 
of the State, Territory or country in which an article of 



i by Google 



44 Misbranding. 

food or drug is manufactured or produced, to be stated on 
the package or on the label, except in case of mixtures 
or compounds having a distinctive name. If stated, the 
name of the State, Territory or country is required to be 
correctly stated. In many foreign countries certain local- 
ities have become noted for the production of certain food 
products which are peculiarly dependent for their character 
upon the character of the soil or climatic conditions, and 
the same is true of certain localities in the United States. 
Many of the States are noted in the matter of food products 
for some one or more products which, while perhaps capable 
of being produced in other States, are at their best in that 
State. Vermont Maple Syrup, Maine Canned Com, New 
York Canned Fruits, Delaware Peaches, Baltimore Oysters, 
Cape Cod Cranberries, Smithfield Hams, Kentucky Whis- 
key, Elgin Butter, Indian River Oranges, are all food pro- 
ducts which by reason of the efforts of the producers in 
the localities indicated are generally recognized on the 
market as distinctive products commanding the higher 
prices. In the wine producing countries of Europe names 
of certain localities like Champagne, Cognac, Burgundy, 
Port, Tokay, Moselle and others, applied to products charac- 
teristic of the particular locality, indicate, when properly 
used, products which are of the highest excellence and com- 
mand the highest prices. So also Java or Mocha for coffee. 
Such geographical names are in the nature of trademarks 
differing from trademarks in the ordinary sense in that 
the right to use them belongs not to an individual but to 
the producers located within a certain region. By students 
of trademark law they are termed "Regional Marks" or 
"Collective Marks," and in many foreign countries their 
use is protected by law as strictly as is the use of individual 
trademarks, such protection being afforded both as a protec- 
tion to the public against deception and as a protection of a 
recc^ized property right in the mark. The protection of 
these regional marks, collective marks or indications of 
origin as they are variously termed has been frequently the 



i by Google 



False Indication of Origin. 45 

subject of treaty arrangements between foreign countries. 
France, Great Britain, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, Brazil 
and Tunis are parties to an agreement concluded at Madrid 
April 14, 1891, having for its express purpose the sup- 
pression of false indications of origin. 

On account of the fact that certain geograjphical names 
used by the producers within certain regions to indicate the 
origin of their products have been so extensively used by 
imitators that they are, sometimes at least, understood as 
indicating a type or style of product without regard to its 
source, it is provided in paragraph (c) of Regulation 19'* 
that the use of such geographical names will not be deemed 
misbranding if the State or Territory where the article is 
produced is stated, and if the gec^aphical name is used 
to indicate style, type or brand. "Tokay style, California," 
"Champagne style. New York," or like markings will prob- 
ably be permitted in cases of wines which resemble the genu- 
ine Tckay or the genuine Champagne. 

Where a geographical name indicates locality of origin 
only, and is not understood as indicating a ^pe or s^Ie, 
its use on an article of food or drug not produced in the 
region indicated will be misbranding. The name Java on 
coffee will no doubt be deemed a misbranding if used upon 
Brazilian coffee or on any coffee not imported from Java 
or at least from the region in which Java is located. 

Geographical names which do not indicate the origin of 
the product to which they are applied but are used merely 
as indicating a species or variety, such names for instance 
as Delaware grapes, Concord grapes, and the like, are prop- 
erly used when applied to the products known by these 
names wherever grown or produced. 

The wording of the first paragraph of Section 8" would 
seem to require a manufacturer or packer having plants 
located in several States and using on his labels the address 
of his main office, to indicate on goods packed in a State 



i by Google 



46 Misbranding;. 

other than in which his main office is located, the name of 
the State in which they were actually manufactured or 
■packed. It is clear from paragraph (b) of Regulation i8" 
that such requirement may be made if deemed necessary by 
the Secretary of Agriculture to prevent deception. The en- 
forcement of such a requirement generally is probably unnec- 
essary and it is not likely to be enforced, unless its non- 
enforcement is taken advantage of to actually deceive the 
-public, 

.43. Misbranding — General Requirements as to Label 
— ^Articles Without a Label; 

There is nothing in the Act which requires food or drug 
■products to be branded or labeled unless they contain cer- 
tain specified substances or are otherwise of a character 
which would render them liable to be prohibited as adul- 
terated without some statement of character or quality. But 
the omission of a label or brand will not avoid liability under 
-the Act if the article without a label sold or offered 
for sale is an imitation of or is offered for sale under the 
name of another article. Regulation 22** which expressly 
prohibits selling or offering for sale an unlabeled article 
>of food or drug, if an imitation of or sold under the name of 
another article, is clearly warranted by the provisions of 
Section 8." 

There is nothing in the Act which requires the name of 
ithe article to be placed on the label or on the package, but 
if a name is used it must be the true name. If a drug which 
's recf^nized by name in the U. S. Pharmacopceia or Na- 
-tional Formulary it must, if it bear any name, bear the 
name thus recognized. The common English name may 
he ysed if preferred. For instance. Magnesium Sulphate 
may be labeled Epsom Salts. A food product if it is com- 
monly known to the trade must, if it bear any name, bear 
the name by which it is commonly known. 



i by Google 



Form of Label. 47 

The label need not bear the name of the manufacturer 
■or the name of the locality in which it was produced except 
in certain cases specifically provided for in the Act, but if 
■either is used it must be the correct name. 

.44. Misbranding — Form of Label: 

With regard to the form or character and appearance of 
the label upon food and drug products not specifically pro- 
vided for in the Act no requirement is made. So far as 
paragraph (b) of Regulation ly** seems to require a partic- 
ular arrangement of the matter on the label on food and 
<irug products not specifically provided for in subsequent 
•paragraphs of this Section, it is to be taken, in view of 
■decisions of the Secretary of Agriculture, F. I. D. 52,"* Jan- 
.-uary 18, 1907, as suggestive rather than directory. 

The labels now in use on canned goods and most other 
food products which are put up in packages may continue 
to be used without change provided they contain no false 
'Or misleading statement, design or device. The same is 
true of the labels now in use on the drugs which are sold 
-under names recognized in the Pharmacopceia or National 
Formulary. Such articles, both of foods and drugs, are 
-generally free from adulterattc«i and contain no objection- 
able color or preservative and do not bear any false state- 
■ment as to who manufactured them or where they were 
manufactured. 

. 45. Misbranding — Drugs . 

The first paragraph under "drugs" in Section 8'° provides 
■that an article shall be deemed misbranded if it be an imita- 
tion of another article or offered for sale under the name 
-of another article. The prohibition is clear and definite. 

No drug which is labeled as being other than it really is 
will be permitted to be passed off upon the public so far 
.-as the Government has the constitutional power to pre- 

"P«»e 90- "Pi» uS. "Pitt 78. 



i by Google 



48 Misbranding. 

vent. It does not appear that an imitation of a drug is per- 
mitted even if plainly stated to be an imitation. So far 
as drugs, in the ordinary sense, that is simple or com- 
pounded drugs, are concerned there can be no such thing 
as an imitation. An article either is or is not the drug 
which it purports to be. As regards medicines in the or- 
dinary sense, that is compounded drugs, there would seem 
to be no reason for permitting imitations even if plainly 
stated to be such. 

The name applied to a drug must be the name under 
which it is recognized in the Phannacopceia or National 
Formulary, or if recognized under two names as for instance 
— Epsom Salts and Magesium Sulphate — either may be 
used. If not rec<^Tiized in the Pharmacopoeia or National 
Formulary the name must be the trade designation applied 
to the article. A drug or an article purporting to be a dn^ 
will not be permitted to be passed off upon the public as 
being a drug named in the Phannacopceia or National 
Formulary when it is not, or as a drug known in the trade 
under a certain name or trade description when it is not 
what it purports to be. 

It would seem also that a preparation purporting to be a 
medicinal preparation known to the trade under a distinc- 
tive trademark should be deemed to be misbranded if the 
package or label bears any imitation of such distinctive 
trademark. 

46. Misbranding — Drugs — Refilling. 

The first part of the second paragraph under "drugs" in 
Section 8" prohibits the refilling of packages from which 
the original contents have been removed either wholly or in 
part. This is, of course, to be understood as meaning re- 
filling for purposes of sale and not to prohibit any use to 
which a bottle or carton might be put after its original con- 
tents have been removed and the label or brand removed or 
destroyed. 



"P^ije ?8. 



DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



Substances Required to be Named. 49 

So far as concerns the District of Columbia and the 
Territories it is not material whether a refilled package is 
to be considered an original unbroken package or not, as 
in either case the refilling is a violation of the provisions of 
the Act. So far as concerns the States it is doubtful whether 
the refilling of an original package and delivering it or 
offering to deliver it to another person, within the State in 
which the package was refilled, can be punished under the 
Act. It would seem that in such case the refilling would be 
a matter to be dealt with under the laws of the State in 
wtiich the package was rdilled. If the refilled package is 
shipped out of the State in which it was refilled, it may prob- 
ably be treated as an original unbroken package. 

47. Misbranding — Drugs — Substances Required to Be 
Named. 

In the requirement contained in the second paragraph 
under "drugs" in Section 8'* that the quantity or proportion 
of alcohol or other substances named in this paragraph or 
any derivative or preparation of any such substances, con- 
tained in any drug shall be stated on the label, the term 
"drug" is used in the broad sense to include all medicines 
and drug preparations whether recognized by name in the 
Pharmacopceia or National Formulary or not. The re- 
quirement is undoubtedly intended to apply particularly to 
the so-called "Patent" medicines or proprietary remedies. 

The requirement applies to veterinary medicines and stock 
foods as well as to all preparations having or purporting to 
have medicinal properties for either externa! or internal use 
for the treatment or prevention of disease in man or any liv- 
ing creature. 

The requirement applies to physicians' prescriptions if 
compounded in the District of Columbia or in a Territory 
whether shipped out of the District or Territory or not, and 
also to physicians' prescriptions c<«npounded in a State and 
shipped out of the State." 



"F. L D. 57, Pvc li 



i by Google 



50 Misbranding. 

The requirement, so far as concerns alct^ol, does not 
apply to flavoring extracts, these being classed as foods." 

The substances required to be mentioned on the label are 
named in the second paragraph" of this Section of the Act. 
The derivatives or preparations of the substances named in 
the Act are stated in paragraph (f) of Regulation 28." 

48. Misbranding — Drugs — Statement of Quantity or 
I Proportion . 

The quantity or proportion of the substances required to 
be named on the label is the quantity or proportion contained 
in the finished product. Any substance used in the prepara- 
tion of a drug or medicine which is eliminated in the pro- 
cess of preparation need not be mentioned on the label.^^ 
It is the finished product only from which samples or speci- 
mens can be taken for analysis by the Department of Agri- 
culture, and the proceedings under the Act can be based 
only upon the analysis or examination of such samples 
or specimens. 

If a substance named in the Act or a derivative of such 
substance is present in the finished product only as a mere 
trace, it probably need not be mentioned on the label. If 
present in any material proportion or any quantity sufficient 
to enable its presence to be determined with certainty by 
analysis or examination, it must be mentioned on the label. 

Under Regulation 30," the quantity or proportion in case 
of alcohol must be stated by percentage of volume in the 
finished product, while in case of any of the other substances 
required to be named the quantity or proportion must be 
stated in grains or minims per fluid ounce or miligrams per 
gram or per cubic centimeter or grams or cubic centimeters 
per kilogram or per liter. The Regulation se«ns to require, 
even in case of medicines put up in tablets, powders, or cap- 
sules, that the quantity or proportion be stated in grains 
or minims per ounce (or as specified if tlie metric system 



DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



Quantity or Proportion. 51 

is used). It would convey to the purchaser the infonnation 
required to be given by the Act if, in the case of medicines 
put up in such form, the quantity of the substance required 
to be named contained in each powder, tablet or capsule 
should be stated. Such statement of quantity would seem 
to be both within the spirit and the letter of the Act and it 
is not probable that medicines put up in such forms will be 
deemed misbranded, if the label states correctly the quantity 
of the substances required to be named which is contained 
in each tablet, powder or capsule. 

The quantity or proportion required to be named should 
be stated as correctly as possible, but should not be under- 
stated." Reasonable variation from the stated quantity or 
proportion is permissible provided the average quantity or 
proportion is correctly stated." 

49. Misbranding — Drugs. Alcohol — Wood Alcohol. 

Grain or ethyl alcohol is the only alcohol required to be 
named on the label." 

Wood alcohol or other substances chemically known as 
alcohols, such as fusel oil, if present, need not be named on 
the label. 

Under paragraph (a) of Regulation 38,*' the use of wood 
alcohol or any alcohol other than grain or ethyl alcohol is 
not permissible in the manufacture of drugs except as speci- 
fied in the Pharmacopceia. Under this R^ulation the use 
of wood alcohol, or denatured alcohol in hair tonics, lini- 
ments or other preparations for external or internal use, is 
prohibited. 

50. Misbranding — Drugs — Form of Statement of 
Substances Required to be Named. 

Under paragraph (b) of Regulation 28," the names of 
the substances required to be named, and the quantity or 
proportion is required to be printed in type not smaller 



i by Google 



52 Misbranding. 

that 8 point (brevier) caps, unless the package is so small 
as not to pennit the use of such type, in which case a smaller 
type may be used. 

Under paragraph (b) of Regulation if" the names of the 
substances required to be named must appear upon the prin- 
cipal label without intervening descriptive or explanatory 
reading matter, that is, immediately following the name of 
the dnag product. In view of Decision of the Secretary of 
Agriculture No, 52,'* Januaty 18, 1907, it would seem that 
this arrangement is suggested and desired rather than in- 
sisted upon. Statements of the reason for using alcohol or 
other substance required to be named should be clearly 
separated from the statement of the substances required to be 
named and their quantities or proportions. 

In stating on the label the quantity or proportion of the 
substances required to be named, the names by which these 
substances are designated in the Act should be used." The 
Department of Agriculture considers it desirable that when 
preparations of the substances required to be named are 
used, the word or words used in the Act should constitute 
the first part of the name of the product. For instance, 
"Opium, Tincture of" or "Cannabis Indica, Extract of" 
should be used instead of "Tincture of Opium," or "Ex- 
tract of Cannabis Indica." 

It seems clear from the decisions so far given out by the 
Department of Agriculture that the Act will be construed 
to require that the substances required to be named must be 
distinguished by their usual and commonly understood 
names." It is apparent that the Department construes the 
Act to require that the information as to substances contain- 
ed in medicinal preparations should be given in language 
which will be readily understood by the purchasing public. 
The use of a chemical formula or a chemical name to des- 
ignate a substance which has a name under which it is gen- 
erally known to the public, is not considered by the Depart- 
ment to be a compliance with the requirements of the Act. 

"Pige 90. "Pige M«. "F. I. D. js. Ptge 119. "F. I. D. s*. Page no. 



i by Google 



51. Misbranding — Drugs — Supplemental Label, 
Stamp or Paster. 

Under paragraph (i) of Regulation 17" labels now on 
hand may be used without change until October i, 1907, 
provided that any statement thereon as to the character of 
the contents contrary to the provisions of the Act, is cor- 
rected by a supplemental label, stamp or paster. 

While not expressly so stated it is probable that such sup- 
plemental label, stamp or paster will be required to conform 
in size of type used with the regulations respecting the prin- 
cipal label. 

52. Misbranding — Drugs — Formula. 

The Act does not require the formula of any drug pro- 
duct, medicine or proprietary remedy to be stated on the 
label, A statement of the formula on the label will not be 
considered to be the equivalent of the statement as to the 
substances required to be named, and, as definitely stated in 
Decision of the Secretary of Agriculture No. 53," January 
28, 1907, all drug products and their labels must conform to 
the Act whether the formula is or is not given on the label." 
The formula, if given, must be correctly stated ; otherwise it 
will be considered a false or misleading statement. 

53. ■ Misbranding — Foods — Imitations. 

The first paragraph under "food" in Section 8'* prohibits 
the sale of an imitation of another article. So far as con- 
cerns imitations of food products which are known by a dis- 
tinctive name which is the property of another, such as cer- 
tain arbitrary or fanciful names used as trademarks, this pro- 
hibition is absolute. So far as concerns imitations of food 
products known under general names such as coffee, maple 
syrup, chocolate creams, vanilla extract and whiskey, the 
prohibition is modified by the provision in a succeeding par- 
agraph of this Section, which permits such imitations to be 



i by Google 



54 Misbranding. 

sold, provided they are labeled, branded or tagged so as to 
plainly indicate that they are imitations. 

54. Misbranding — Foods — Distinctive Names. 

"Distinctive name" in this paragraph means the trade 
description by which an article is known to the public. It 
includes a generic name by which an article is known such 
as Coffee, Flour, Tea, Sugar, Vanilla and Chocolate' and also 
includes arbitrary or fanciful names applied by an individual 
manufacturer to the particular goods which he puts upon 
the market, in other words trademark names. This para- 
graph clearly prohibits the use upon any article of food of 
the name "Coffee" if the article is not coffee, or "Maple 
Syrup" if the article is not maple syrup, or "Olive Oil" if 
it is not olive oil, and also clearly prohibits the use upon 
a package of coffee of a name which indicates that is is 
coffee of a particular known brand, if it is not of that brand. 

Under paragraph (d) of Regulation 19" the use of a 
foreign name which is recc^nized as distinctive of a pro- 
duct of a foreign country is prohibited upon an article of 
domestic origin except as an indication of the type or style 
of quality or manufacture, and then only when so qualified 
that it cannot be offered for sale under the name of a foreign 
article. This applies directly to the labeling of domestic 
cheese as "Roquefort," "Camembert," "Stilton," as well 
as to other articles of food, wines or liquors which are sold 
under foreign names which are understood by the public to 
designate a distinctively foreign product. Domestic cheese 
which is properly described as of the type or style of Roque- 
fort cheese may be labeled as "Roquefort type," or "Roque- 
fort style," but if so labeled the word "type" or "style" will 
be required to be plainly printed in type sufficiently large to 
prevent its being overlooked by the purchaser. 

■PaBc 78. "Pace 93. 



ib.Googlc 



Refilling Packages. 55 

55- Misbranding — Foods — Waste Materials. 

There is nothing in the Act which prohibits the selling 
or offering for sale of any product which has any food value 
whatever, provided it is not made of materials which are 
unfit for food and contains no added substance which is 
considered to be deleterious, and provided it is not misrep- 
resented either by statements on the labels or otherwise. 
Inferior fruit or other food material, trimmings, pieces, 
stems or the like, may be entirely wholesome and there is 
no doubt a demand for such products from those who can- 
not pay for the standard quality of goods, but it is im- 
portant that such goods should not be passed off as better 
than they really are. It is therefore required under Reg- 
ulation 26** that such goods be marked "pieces," "stems," 
"trimmings," or by some similar appellation. 

56. Misbranding — Foods — Deceptive Labeling or 
Branding — Refilling. 
The first part of the second paragraph under "food" in 
Section 8," taken with the first paragraph under "foods" 
and the introductory paragraph of the Section, would seem 
to cover every possible case of so marking or labeling food 
products as to deceive the public as to their character, qual- 
ity, or origin. This second paragraph specifically prohibits 
GO marking the article of food as to indicate that it is a for- 
eign product when it is not. A label in a foreign language, 
a foreign name as the manufacturer's or producer's name or 
the name of a foreign locality as the locality of origin, if 
used upon food products of domestic origin in such a way 
as to cause a purchaser to believe it to be of foreign origin, 
would clearly be a violation of the provisions of the Act. 
There is nothing in the Act which prohibits the use of a 
label in a language other than English additional to a 
principal label in English, when used on products sold or 
offered for sale in localities in which a language other than 

"P«e« 91- "Pm* 78. 



i by Google 



56 Misbranding. 

English is extensively used. Under paragraph (c) of Regu- 
lation i7** a foreign label appears to be expressly permitted 
in the language of the country where the drug or food is 
produced or manufactured. 

The first part of the second paragraph under "food" also 
prohibits the refilling of packages the original contents of 
which have been removed in whole or in part. This applies 
only to the refilling of packages which still retain their orig- 
inal labels or brands, for the purpose of passing off the re- 
filled packages as original packages. It would be a viola- 
tion of the provisions of this paragraph, in the District of 
Columbia or in the Territories, for a retail dealer in liquors 
or a bartender to refill, in whole or in part, a whiskey bottle 
bearing a distinctive label or brand. 

57. Misbranding — Foods — Substances Required to Be 

Named. 

Alcohol, if present in any food product, need not be 
named on the label.*" If present in a drug or medicinal 
preparation, it must be named.*' With the exception of alco- 
hol all of the substances required to be named if present in 
drugs or medicinal preparations, are required to be named 
if present in food products."' The Regulations with respect 
to the statement of these substances and their quantities or 
properties are the same in case of foods as in case of drugs. 
(See pages 50 and 51). 

It would not seem that morphine, opium, etc., have any 
legitimate place in food products, and that any product con- 
taining any of these substances should be treated as a drug, 
not a food. 

58. Misbranding — Foods — Weights and Measures, 
The third paragraph under "food," in Section 8" is not 

to be understood as requiring weight or measure to be stated 
on a package, but it does require that if stated the weight or 



.;h,Coo;-^lc 



Compounds. 57 

m«isure must be stated correctly. Under Regulation 2g*' 
reasonable variation from the stated weight for individual 
packages is permitted both as regards variations due to 
filling and weighing, and as regards charges due to evapo- 
ration or absorption of moisture, 

59. Misbranding — Foods — Mixtures of Compounds 
Under Distinctive Names . 

The first part of the fourth paragraph of Section 8"" 
covers the same ground that is already covered by the intro- 
ductory paragraph of this Section. The prohibition seems 
to be here repeated in order to lead up to the exceptions 
which follow it. 

"Mixture" or "Compound," the two words being sub- 
stantially identical in meaning,"' is construed to mean the 
result of putting together two or more food products, A 
mixture of mineral or inert substances having no food 
value is not a mixture which is permitted under the Act. 
In fact such a mixture is expressly prohibited by Section 
7.'*" Mixtures or compounds of two or more food pro- 
ducts are not required to be marked with the names of the 
ingredients, or even to be labeled with the word "mixture" 
or "compound" if the mixture or compound is now or may 
be hereafter known as an article of food under a distinctive 
name, "distinctive name" meaning either a trade description 
commonly employed, or the name applied to a proprietary 
food, but in such case it is required that the label bear a 
statement of the place where the article was manufactured 
or produced.'" 

A mixture or compound not known under a distinctive 
name must be labeled, branded or tagged with the word 
"mixture" or "compound." Under the rulings of the Secre- 
tary of Agriculture it appears that in such cases the word 
"mixture" or "compound" must stand alone and without 
qualification.'"* 



•Page 98. 


■"Pige 78. 


'"F. 1 


[. D. 41. Pace 




■"Ptee 79. 







ibyGoogle 



58 Misbranding. 

60. Misbranding — Foods — Permissible Imitations . 

The second proviso under the fourth paragraph under 
"food" of Section 8,'°* seems to permit the sale of an "imi- 
tation" of an article of food, provided it is labeled, branded 
or tagged vfith the word "imitation." 

Paragraph (f) of Regulation 21'°* defines "imitation" as 
"a counterfeit or fraudulent simulation of any article or 
food or drug." Doubtless this definition is correct if applied 
to the imitation which is intended to be prohibited by the 
first paragraph under "drugs," or the first paragraph under 
"food" of this Section, and it does not appear that the Act 
anywhere countenances or permits the sale of anything 
which is a counterfeit or fraudulent simulation of any arti- 
cle of food or drug. The "imitation" which is permitted by 
the second proviso under the fourth paragraph under "food" 
if labeled, branded or tagged to plainly indicate that it is 
an imitation, with the word "imitation" plainly stated on the 
package, must necessarily be an article which is wholesome 
as food and free from deleterious ingredients, capable of or 
intended for use in the same way as the substance of which 
it is an imitation and as a substitute for such substance. 

In Decision of the Secretary of Agriculture No. 50,'"' 
January 18, 1907, it is suggested that what has sometimes 
been termed "Cereal Coffee" should be designated "Imi- 
tation Coffee." If by adopting this suggestion the manufac- 
turer is to be understood by the public as admitting that 
his product is a counterfeit or fraudulent simulation of cof- 
fee as defined in paragraph (f) of Regulation 21,"' it can 
hardly be expected that he will label, brand or tag his pro- 
duct as "imitation." 

Unless the definition of imitation in paragraph (f) of 
Regulation 21'" is materially modified, it is probable that 
the manufacturers of "Cereal Coffee" and other food pro- 
ducts designed to be used in place of recognized articles, 
will prefer to retain the names now used on their goods 
rather than mark them imitations. 

■"Pase 79. ""E^je 94- '-Past 115. ""PMe M- ""Pige ««. 



i by Google 



Compounds. 59* 

6i. Misbranding — Foods — Compounds — Mixtures. 

The second paragmph of the proviso of Section 8"™ is- 
clearly intended to permit the sale of food products which 
are compoiuids or mixtures, provided they are labeled, 
branded or tagged so as to plainly indicate what they are. 
It would seem to be clear that the permission extends to the 
admixture with a substance of a second substance which 
reduces or lowers the strength or quality of the first. For 
instance, the addition to pure mustard of flour or meal to 
reduce its strength to the ordinary prepared mustard. This 
would be adulteration under the first paragraph under 
"food" in Section 7,'" if the prepared mustard were offered 
for sale as pure mustard, but it is not to be treated as adul- 
terated if plainly labeled as a mixture or compound. The 
permission does not extend to mixtures under the fourth 
paragraph of Section 7"° made for the purpose of conceal- 
ing damage or inferiority or to a mixture containing any 
added poisonous or deleterious ingredients. 

"Mixture" and "compound" appear to mean the same thing 
and are so construed by the Department of Agriculture,'" 
They differ from "blends" in that they are not necessarily 
limited to the product resulting from the mingling together 
of like substances, while "blend" is expressly so limited by 
the language of the Act. 

A mixture of rye and wheat flour is a mixture or com- 
pound and should be so labeled, branded or tagged.'" It 
should not be labeled "rye flour" alone. The use of an 
ingredient in small quantity simply for the sake of naming 
it in the list of ingredients does not justify so naming it. 
The ingredients must be present in substantial quantities. 

62. Misbranding — Foods — ^Blends. 

Under the second paragraph of the proviso of Section 8 
the term "blend" is to be construed as meaning a mix- 
ture of "like substances" not excluding harmless coloring 
or flavoring ingredients used for the purpose of coloring and 



r-FS-,.. 



<"F. I. D. 43, P4ce ic>«i F. L D. 6$, I 



ly Google 



6o Misbranding. 

flavoring only. Under paragraphs (c) and (d) of Regu- 
lation 2i"' coloring and flavoring cannot be used for in- 
creasing the weight or bulk of the mixture and are not to be 
used in quantities to exceed i to 800. 

In paragraph (e) of Regulation 21'" it is stated that a 
color or flavor cannot be employed to imitate any natural 
product or any other product of recognized name and 
quality. This evidently to be read with the definition of 
"imitation" in paragraph (f) of the same Regulation'" and 
with the proviso under "food" in Section 8"' which ex- 
pressly provides that imitations, if properly labeled, 
branded or tagged, shall not be deemed to be misbranded. 
It would seem to be practically impossible to produce even 
the "imitation" permissible by the Act without the use of 
color or flavor, and it does not appear that the Act prohibits 
the use of color or flavor for the production of "imitations" 
which are offered for sale for what they are and not under 
any misrepresentation. 

For those engaged in the production, manufacture or 
sale of liquors, particularly whiskey, the question of what 
are "like substances" under the Act is of great importance, 
since upon the meaning given these words as used in the 
final paragraph of Section 8'" depends the question of the 
branding or labeling of the liquors made up in part of 
straight whiskey and in part of ethyl alcohol or spirits. 
The ruling of the Secretary of Agriculture"' on this ques- 
tion based on an opinion of the Attorney-General, approved 
by the President, is that straight whiskey shall be labeled as 
such, that a mixture of two or more straight whiskeys shall 
be labeled "blended whiskey" or "blended whiskeys; that 
a mixture of straight whiskey and ethyl alcohol, provided 
there is enough whiskey in it to make it a real compound or 
mixture, shall be labeled "compound whiskey," "com- 
pounded whiskey" or "compound of pure grain distillates"; 
and that ethyl alcohol flavored and colored so as to taste, 

■"Page 9*. '"Page 04- "'P»ge 04. "*P«m ?o. 

"'Page 75.. -F. 1. D. 45. Page iioT F.l D. 6s. Page .ag. 

DigitzedbyGOO^^IC 



Formula. 6i 

smell and look like whiskey shall be labeled imitation 
whiskey. 

The effect of this ruling is to make the use of the word 
"blend" on liquor composed in part of ethyl alcohol or 
neutral spirits, and in part only, of whiskey, misbranding 
under the Act as construed by the Department of Agri- 
culture. 

The term "compound whiskey" is not pennitted by the 
ruling, except as applied to a mixture containinlg a sub- 
stantial proportion of whiskey. The same ruling applies to 
all other compounds, whether drugs or food products, that 
is, no preparation can be named after an ingredient which 
is not present."" 

63. Misbranding — Propeietaby Foods — Formula. 

The further proviso clause of the second proviso under 
"food" of Section 8'" recognizes the impropriety of so con- 
struing any of the provisions of the Act as to compel the 
manufacturer of a food product made by a secret process 
or formula to disclose such process or fonnula, so long as 
such food product is in itself wholesome and is not labeled 
or branded in such a way as to deceive the public. 

Such proprietary foods are subject to the general provi- 
sions of the Act as regards adulteration and misbranding. 
If upon examination or analysis of samples or specimens of 
such foods, they are found to contain substances prohibited 
under the provisions of the Act, or if they are found to be 
materially different in character or quality from what they 
are represented to be, the proprietors may be proceeded 
against as provided for in Sections 4"' and 5.'" It will 
therefore be necessary for the proprietors of such foods to 
disclose by a statement on the label so much of the formula 
as may be necessary to comply with the general require- 
ments of the Act r^arding misbranding. 

It appears from paragraph (a) of R^ulation 8'" that 

"•F. I. D, 63, Pigc 1*6. ™Ptt 79- "'T'tt 7S- '"P««e 7J. 



i by Google 



t62 Misbranding. 

•this portion of the Act is construed to empower the Sec- 
retary of Agriculture to decide to what extent the names 

.and percentage of materials used are to be stated on the 
label. The basis for this regulation does not clearly appear 
in the Act, nor is there any basis in the Act for the require- 
ment in paragraph (b)'^' of the same regulation requiring 
the factories in which proprietary foods are made to be 

■ open for inspection at all reasonable times. 

The Act will probably be construed by the Courts to 
require the proprietors or manufacturers to see to it that 
their foods are free from adulteration and are not mis- 

, branded, and that for the purpose of avoiding misbranding 
the fonnula, or so much thereof as may be necessary, shall 
be stated on the label, and that the sole duty of the Sec- 
retary of Agriculture in the matter of proprietary foods is, 

.as in the matter of any food or drug product, to determine 
whether from the analysis or examination of samples or 
specimens it appears that the provisions of the Act have 
been violated. 

■"Page 86. "PBge 86. 



i by Google 



CHAPTER VI. 
THE GUARANTY. 

64. Effect of the Guaranty . 

The guaranty contemplated by Section 9"* is in effect an 
agreement by the manufacturer, packer, wholesaler or job- 
ber that he will hold himself responsible for the food or 
drug products furnished by him to dealers. Without a 
guaranty retail dealers are liable under the Act, even in 
case of goods in original unbroken packages, if such goods 
are adulterated or misbranded, and it is no defense under 
the Act to show that such goods were received from another 
person and were not known by the retailer to be misbranded 
or adulterated, unless the person from whom the goods 
were received assumed responsibility for the character or 
quality by a written guaranty duly signed by him. 

If a guaranty has been filed with the Secretary of Agri- 
culture, the package containing the goods should bear the 
statement "Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act, June 

30, 1906, Serial No. " This statement should not be 

qualified by any other words. Such statement appearing 
on a package if no guaranty has in fact been filed, is mis- 
branding under Section 8, for which the party placing it 
on the package will no doubt be held responsible. 

65. Form of Guaranty . 

The guaranty may be a general guaranty filed with the 
Secretary of Agriculture covering all goods manufactured 
or sold by the guarantor, or all goods bearing certain speci- 
fied names or trademarks made and sold by him, or it may 
cover only a particular shipment of goods, in which case it 
should identify and be attached to the bill of sale, invoice. 



ibvGooglc 



64 The Guaranty. 

bill of lading, or other schedule, giving the names and guar- 
anties of the articles intended to be covered by it. 

The guaranty, if filed with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
should be signed by the guarantor, and, under the present 
requirement of the Department, should be acknowledged 
before a notary. In case of a guaranty given by a firm, 
corporation or association, the member of the firm or offi- 
cer signing for the corporation should make clear the fact 
of his authority to sign for the firm, corporation or associa- 
tion. No fee is charged by the Department of Agriculture 
for filing guaranties and assigning serial numbers. 

No particular form of guaranty is prescribed by the Act 
or by the Rules and Regulations. It should, however, be 
drawn to cover precisely what it is intended to cover and 
no more. Wholesalers and jobbers dealing in a wide va- 
riety of goads coming to them in original unbroken pack- 
ages from a wide variety of sources should avoid so draw- 
ing their guaranty as to assume responsibility for goods of 
the character and quality of which they can not be abso- 
lutely sure. Care should be taken in this matter particularly 
with reference to imported goods. 

It is probable that guarantees accepted in good faith by 
dealers will be held sufficient to bind the guarantors and 
that technical defects in the guarantees will not relieve the 
guarantors from responsibility. 

A wholesaler or jobber who purchases food or drug 
products from the producer or from anyone else may safely 
guarantee the goods so purchased to his customers, provided 
he has from the producer or other person from whom he 
purchased the goods, a guaranty covering them. In case 
of such double guaranty, it would be advisable for the 
wholesaler or jobber before guaranteeing to his customers 
that such goods are not adulterated or misbranded, to see to 
it that the guaranty given him by the person from whom he 
purchased sufficiently identifies the goods to make it possible 
to readily trace back any of them found to be in fact adul- 
terated or misbranded. 



i by Google 



The Guaranty. 65 

It will probably be found desirable to limit guarantees to 
goods bearing distinctive trademarks or other marks which 
belong to the producer or dealer giving the guarantee. 
Where a producer or packer puts up goods for a wholesaler, 
jobber or other distributor and delivers them without labels, 
to be subsequently labeled, he cannot under his guaranty 
be responsible for the correctness of such subsequently at- 
tached label. If, however, the producer or packer applies 
labels furnished by the purchaser, his guaranty may prop- 
erly cover both the question of adulteration and the ques- 
tion of misbranding. 

66. Guaranty Applies to Unbroken Packages Only. 
A guaranty will be effective to relieve the dealer from 

responsibility only so long as the package remains unbroken. 
This is clearly the case as regards sales in the States and 
would seem to be also true as regards sales in the District 
of Columbia and the Territories. The guarantor can fairly 
be held responsible only for goods which reach the consumer 
in the same condition in which they left his hands. If the 
package is opened by the retailer, whether re-sold or not, he 
thereby assumes responsibility for adulteration or misbrand- 
ing whether actually known to him or not. 

67. Guaranty — Not a Government Guaranty. 

The guaranty provided for by Section g'** is not to be 
understood as a guaranty by the Department of Agricul- 
ture that the goods to which it applies are not adulterated 
or misbranded, but as merely an assumption of responsibil- 
ity by the guarantor which does not relieve him from prose- 
cution if the goods are in fact adulterated or misbranded. 

Any statement on a label or package indicatii^ that the 
Government or the Department of Agriculture guarantees 
the contents of the package is a false or misleading state- 
ment and as such is clearly prohibited by Section 8.^** See 
Decision of the Secretary of Agriculture No. 40,"* October 
25, 1906. 



"Put ft. '^mt i»5- 



i by Google 



66 The Guaranty. 

68. Guaranty — No Provision as to Imported Foods 
OR Drugs. 
There is no provision for a guaranty by a manufacturer 
or other person located abroad, such manufacturer or other 
person being beyond the jurisdiction of the United States 
Courts. Imported Foods and Drugs may be guaranteed 
by the importer or any person in the United States. Unless 
so guaranteed, imported foods and drugs are sold by deal- 
ers at their own risk. But in view of the stringency of the 
laws heretofore in force as well as the provisions of this 
Act respecting importations, it may generally be assumed 
that foods and drugs which are permitted to be imported are 
not adulterated or misbranded. 



i by Google 



CHAPTER VII. 

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES. 

69, Enforcement of the Act. 

The course which will be pursued by the Department of 
Agriculture in the enforcement of the provisions of the Act 
was expressed by Dr. Wiley, Chief of the Bureau of Chem- 
istry, in his statement at the opening of the hearings before 
the Commission appointed to formulate the rules and regu- 
lations held in New York in September, 1906, in the state- 
ment that it was desired in the formulation of the rules and 
regulations "to secure the purpose in view with the least pos- 
sible disturbance to business conditions and with the least 
possible annoyance to the manufacturer, the jobber and the 
public." This should not, however, be understood as indi- 
cating that the Department will permit a reasonable forbear- 
ance from an immediate enforcement of the strict letter of 
the law to be taken advantage of. In commenting on a 
circular sent out by an association of dealers in food products 
the Secretary of Agriculture is reported to have said : "The 
law is now in force and any merchant or manufacturer who 
violates it does so at his peril. If any of these gentlemen 
think they can defy the law with impunity let them try it 
and I will undertake to assure them, eventually, a summons 
to appear before a United States Court." 

70. Stock on Hand. 

As regards foods and drugs on hand at the time the law 
went into force, labels on hand and other matters in which 
a stringent enforcement of the law would result in serious 
loss to manufacturers or dealers, the law will undoubtedly 
be administered with the utmost consideration provided 
goods on hand are not seriously injurious and are not sold 
imder misrepresentation, and provided that labels on hand 



i by Google 



68 Notes. 

are corrected so far as necessary by supplemental labels, 
stamps or pasters. 

With regard to the use of colors and preservatives on 
which no definite rulings have yet been given out, it may be 
expected that after the rulings are given out a reasonable 
time will be given for the disposal of goods on hand which 
contain colors or preservatives prohibited by such rulings, 
The same may be expected with regard to the matter of the 
marking of the so-called blended whiskeys. 

71. Notes as to Particular Products. 

AH food products, including confectionery, in which arti- 
ficial coloring or flavoring is used should be so labeled as to 
clearly indicate that they contain artificial color or flavor. 
The Department of Agriculture has indicated that in such 
cases the word "imitation" rather than "artificial" should be 
used on the label. 

Mince meat and porit and beans are considered food pro- 
ducts coming under the provisions of this Act, not meat pro- 
ducts coming under the Meat Inspection Law. 

In the manufacture of sugar, sulphur, phosphoric acid 
and lime may be used, also tin crystals and zinc dust as 
bleach, provided the resultant molasses, if shipped out of the 
State within which it is made, is sold for distilling purposes 
only. Coloring agents or adulterants such as tin crystals, 
rock compounds, ultramarine blue, etc., are prohibited. 

Gelatine is not prohibited as an ingredient in confectionery 
or other food product. There is no objection to gelatine 
made from good, unobjectionable raw material in a sanitary 
way. 

Cocoas in the preparation of which alkalies or other sub- 
stances have been employed in order to increase the apparent 
solubility of the product, should bear on the label a declara- 
tion of such treatment. The phrase "prepared with alkali" 
(or alkalies) or "manufactured with alkali" (or alkalies), 
or some similar statement, would be a sufficient notification. 



i by Google 



Notes. 69 

72. Labeling Packages. 

The original unbroken package, that is the case, box, barrel 
or other package in which cans, bottles, cartons or other 
retail packag'es are shipped from the producer, manufac- 
turer or packer to the wholesaler, jobber or retailer, or are 
shipped from the wholesaler or jobber to his customers, 
should, if it is shipped from one State to another, be labeled 
or branded strictly in accordance with the requirements of 
the Act, and unless some controlling reason exists for doing 
otherwise, should be labeled or branded strictly in accord- 
ance with the rules and r^ulations and the requirements 
of the Department of Agriculture. The Act applies directly 
to the original package. 

As regards the labels on the individual cans, bottles, car- 
tons, or other packages enclosed in the case, box, barrel, or 
other outer package, it is advisable that these conform 
strictly to the requirements regarding labels contained in the 
Act, and unless some controlling reason exists for doing 
otherwise, such labels should confonn strictly to the rules 
and regulations and the requirements of the Department 
of Agriculture. It is probable, however, that the Act does 
not apply to the labeling of the retail packages enclosed 
within an outer package and shipped from one State to an- 
other, and it will therefore be suflficient if the retail pack- 
ages are labeled or branded in conformity with the laws 
of the State into which they are shipped and in which they 
are sold. So far as many of the States are concerned, the 
fact that the Act does not apply to the retail package is 
not of much practical importance as the laws of many of 
the States make substantially the same requirements as 
regards labels which are made by the Act. 

With regard to drugs or food products shipped into or 
out of the District of Columbia or into or out of any Terri- 
tory the requirements r^;arding labeling or branding apply 
■ to the individual or retail package as well as to the enclbs- 
fng case, box, barrel, or other package, and it is necessary 



i by Google 



7© Notes. 

that each bottle, can, carton, or other retail package of 
drugs or food products manufactured in the District of 
Columbia, or a Territory, or shipped into the District of 
Columbia, or a Territory, for sale therein, or shipped from 
the District of Columbia or a Territory, shall be labeled or 
branded in strict conformity with the requirements of the 
Act and with the rules and regulations and the requirements 
of the Department of Agriculture. It is necessary also 
that the enclosing case, box, barrel or other outer package, 
in case of drugs or food products manufactured in, or ship- 
ped into or out of the District of Columbia or a Territory, 
shall also be correctly labeled or branded, 

73. Canned Goods — Labels. 

The labels commonly used on canned goods are in the 
following form : 



ITrademaik ui 


me.] 


[Tridemirk n»me. J 


[D«i,i.. 






INimeof particul 


rgood^l 


"•"f^dirr-' 



While labels in this form are not precisely in the form 
specified in Regulation 17 (b),"* or F. I. D. 52,'" they 
conform to all the requirements of the Act and may con- 
tinue to be used without objection on the part of the De- 
partment of Agriculture. Of course, if the wholesaler's, 
jobber's or dealer's name appears on the label, the words 
"packed for," distributed by," or other words indicating 
that such name is not the name of the packer, must be 
used, and it is of course to be understood that the label used, 
whether in the above form, or in any other form, contains 
no misrepresentation or false or misleading statement, de- 
sign or device. 

74. State Laws. 

In nearly all of the States laws regarding the adultera- 



i by Google 



State Laws. 71 

tion and misbranding of food and drug products have 
either been enacted and are now in force, or are under 
consideration and likely to be adopted in the near future. 
Such laws in their purpose and in general requirements as 
to labeling or branding are similar to the Food and Drugs 
Act, June 30, 1906, a number of them being drawn to 
conform closely to the Act. Generally speaking, food or 
drug products which are labeled or branded in conformity 
with the requirements of the Act, the rules and regulations 
and the requirements of the Department of Agriculture, will 
be found to meet the requirements of the laws of any of 
the States. The definitions of what constitutes adulteration 
are substantially the same in the State laws as in the Act. 
In a few of the States, notably Minnesota, Kansas, Indiana, 
Illinois, and North and Sduth Dakota, the use of analine 
colors or coal tar preservatives in food products, particu- 
larly confectionery, is strictly prohibited. Certain states 
also make special requirements regarding the labeling of 
baking powder and a few other articles. A niunber of 
States also make stringent requirements regarding proprie- 
tary medicines. 



i by Google 



ibyGoogle 



APPENDIX. 



THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 
JUNE 30, 1906. 

AN ACT for preventing the manufacture, sale, or tran (porta tion of 
adulterated or misbranded or poisonous or deleterious foods, drugs, 
medicines, and liquors, and for regulating trafBc therein, and for other 
purposes.' 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled. 
That it shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture* 
within any Territory or the District of Columbia any article 
of food or drug which is adulterated or misbranded, within 
the meaning of this Act ; and any person who shall violate 
any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a mis- 
demeanor, and for each offense shall, upon conviction there- 
of, be lined not to exceed five hundred dollars or shall be 
sentenced to one year's imprisonment, or both such fine and 
imprisonment, in the discretion of the court, and for each 
subsequent offense and conviction thereof shall be fined not 
less than one thousand dollars or sentenced to one year's im- 
prisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the dis- 
cretion of the court. 

Sec. 2. That the introduction' into any State or Terri- 
tory or the District of Columbia from any other State or 
Territory or the District of Columbia, or from any foreign 
country, or shipment to any foreign country* of any article 
of food or drugs which is adulterated or misbranded, within 
the meaning of this Act, is hereby prohibited; and any per- 

■Piges I, 36, p. L D., 44> P>«E 109; F. I. D. 6], P»|e lag. 



i by Google 



74 The Food and Drugs Act. 

son who shall ship or deliver for shipment' from any State- 
or Territory or the District of Columbia to any other State 
or Territory or the District of Columbia, or to a foreign 
country, or who shall receive in any State or Territory or the 
District of Columbia from any other State or Territory or 
the District of Columbia, or foreign country, and having 
so received, shall deliver, in original unbroken packages,' 
for pay or otherwise, or offer to deliver to any other person, 
any such article so adulterated or misbranded within the 
meaning of this Act, or any person who shall sell or offer 
for sale in the District of Columbia or the Territories of the- 
United States any such adulterated or misbranded foods 
or drugs, or export or offer to export the same to any for- 
eign country, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for such 
offense be fined not exceeding two hundred dollars for the 
first offense, and upon conviction for each subsequent of- 
fense not exceeding three hundred dollars or be imprisoned 
not exceeding one year, or both, in the discretion of the 
court : Provided, That no article shall be deemed misbranded 
or adulterated within the provisions of this Act when in- 
tended for export' to any foreign country and prepared or 
packed according to the specifications or directions of the 
foreign purchaser when no substance is used in the prepara- 
tion or packing thereof in conflict with the laws of the for- 
eign country to which said article is intended to be shipped ; 
but if said article shall be in fact sold or offered for sale for 
domestic use or consiunption, then this proviso shall not ex- 
empt said article from the operation of any of the other 
provisions of this Act. 

Sec. 3. That the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary 
of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor* 
shall make imiform rules and regulations for carrying out 
the provisions of this Act, including the collection' and exam- 
ination" of specimens of foods and drugs manufactured or 
offered for sale in the District of Colimibia, or in any Ter- 

'Page 3, "Page 3, Reg. jt. Page 99. "Pages 6. is, a6. a8, jj, 

'Pago 3, 4, J, 7, 8. 14. 'Page 13. jo, Reg. 4, Page S4. 

aa, 49. 63, 64, 6s. "Pagf* 13. "4. "S, Reg- 3. 

Page 84. 



i by Google 



The Food and Drugs Act. 75 

ritory of the United States, or which shall be offered for 
sale in unbroken packages" in any State other than that in 
which they shall have been respectively manufactured or 
produced, or which shall be received from any foreign coun- 
try, or intended for shipment to any foreign country, or 
which may be submitted for examination by the chief health, 
food, or drug officer of any State, Territory, or the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, or at any domestic or foreign port 
through which such product is offered for interstate com- 
merce, or for export or import between the United States 
and any foreign port or country. 

Sec. 4. That the examinations of specimens of foods and 
drugs" shall be made in the Bureau of Chemistry of the 
Department of Agriculture, or under the direction and su- 
pervision of such Bureau, for the purpose of determining 
from such examinations whether such articles are adulterated 
or misbranded within the meaning of this Act ; and if it 
shall appear from any such examination that any of such 
specimens is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall cause notice 
thereof to be given to the party from whom such sample was 
obtained." Any party so notified shall be given an oppor- 
tunity to be heard, under such rules and regulations as may 
be prescribed as aforesaid, and if it appears that any of the 
provisions of this Act have been violated by such party, then 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall at once certify the facts 
to the proper United States district attorney," with a copy 
of the results of the analysis or the examination of such 
article duly authenticated by the analyst or officer making 
such examination, under the oath of such officer. After 
judgment of the court, notice shall be given by publication 
in such manner as may be prescribed by the rules and r^- 
ulations aforesaid.** 

Sec. 5. That it shall be the duty of each district attorney 
to whom the Secretary of Agriculture shall report any viola- 

"Pag« a. 4. S. 7. 8. 14. "Pmo 6, 15. »6, 38, 33, "Page 14. Reg. 3. P>jrc 84. 

»*. 49. 63. 64. *S. JO- "Page 16, Reg. j, I^ge 8j. 

"Page 17. Reg. 6, Fife 86. 



i by Google 



76 The Food and Drugs Act. 

tion of this Act, or to whom any health or food or drug 
officer or agent of any State, Territory, or the District of 
Columbia shall present satisfactory evidence of any such 
violation, to cause appropriate proceedings" to be com- 
menced and prosecuted in the proper courts of the United 
States, without delay, for the enforcement of the penalties 
as in such case herein provided. 

Sec. 6. That the term "drug,"" as used in this Act, shall 
include all medicines and preparations recognized in the 
United States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary^' for 
internal or external use, and any substance or mixture of 
substances intended to be used for the cure, mitigation, or 
prevention of disease of either man or other animals. The 
term "food,"** as used herein, shall include all articles used 
for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment by man or other 
animals, whether simple, mixed, or compoimd. 

Sec. 7. That for the purposes of this Act an article shall 
be deemed to be adulterated :*" 

In case of drugs : 

First. If, when a drug is sold under or by a name recog- 
nized in the United States Pharmacopceia or National For- 
mulary,*' it differs from the standard of strength, quality, or 
purity, as determined by the test laid down in the United 
States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary official at the 
time of investigation :" Provided," That no drug defined in 
the United States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary 
shall be deemed to be adulterated under this provision if the 
standard of strength, quality, or purity be plainly stated upon 
the bottle, box, or other container thereof although the 
standard may differ from that determined by the test laid 
down in the United States Pharmacopceia or National For- 
mulary. 

Second. If its strength or purity fall below the professed 
standard or quality under which it is sold." 

•'Ptgt 17. '•P«i 10. -Pwe 13, F. r. D. s». 

lis*"" ■»• *»■ , » «S»«^ " *" 3S- ^»»e "^ 

"Pages 11. ij, 46, 4?, 48. "Pages as, 13, 46, 4T, 48, "Pige ii. Reg. 7, Page 86. 
49, Reg. 7. Page 86. 49, Reg. 7, Page 8«. "Page tt, Reg. 7, Pagj 86. 



i by Google 



The Food and Drugs Act. -JJ 

In the case of confectionery :" 

If it contain terra alba, barytes, talc, chrome yellow, or 
other mineral substance or poisonous color or flavor, or 
other ingredient deleterious or detrimental to health, or any 
vinous, malt, or spirituous liquor or compound or narcotic 
drug." 

In the case of food :" 

First. If any substance has been mixed and packed with 
it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or 
strength.** 

Second. If any substance has been substituted wholly or 
in part for the article." 

Third. If any valuable constituent of the article has been 
wholly or in part abstracted.*" 

Fourth. If it be mixed," colored," powdered," coat- 
ed,** or stained" in a manner whereby damage or inferiority 
is concealed. 

Fifth. If it contain any added*' poisonous or other added 
deleterious ingredient*^ which may render such article 
injurious to health;'* Provided, That when in the prepara- 
tion of food products for shipment they are preserved by 
any external application applied in such manner that the 
preservative is necessarily removed mechanically, or by 
maceration in water, or otherwise," and directions for the 
removal of said preservative shall be printed on the covering 
or the package, the provisions of this Act shall be construed 
as applying only when said products are ready for consump- 
tion. 

Sixth." If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, de- 
composed, or putrid animal or vegetable substance, or any 

"PitM JO, »*, M, Reg. "P«le 17. R«B. ". Pi«e "^HT' »*■ **■ >"■ J* 

lo, Pi(c B7. IS. Seg. 15, Pige •«. 

"P««i 34- ■?»« »7. Re«- la. Pm* "P»«" "■.??. JO. 34. 

'P«(C ». Is. Ket- 'h. Pf Bo, 

■Pmtci 31, u. as, Rci. "Pwe iS, Reg. 11, Pige ■*?« iB; %eg. 14, Fige 

"Fige'ij, Reg. as. P*Ct "Pkr'iB, Reg. i>, Ftgc "P^O* 3>< 3]> R<C> >^ 
"Pace 16. "PaR'aS. Reg. 13, Ptge 



■ngc a7, Reg. ■ 



wi F"l^D.'ti, Pw 



i by Google 



78 The Food and Drugs Act. 

portion of an animal unfit for food, whether manufactured 
or not, or if it is the product of a diseased animal, or one that 
has died otherwise than by slaughter.*' 

Sec. 8. That the term "misbranded,"*' as used herein, 
shall apply to all drugs, or articles of food, or articles which 
enter into the composition of food, the package or label** 
of which shall bear any statement, design, or device" re- 
garding such article, or the ingredients or substances con- 
tained therein which shall be false or misleading in any 
particular,'" and to any food or drug product which is falsely 
branded as to the State, Territory, or country in which it is 
manufactured or produced.*' 

That for the purposes of this Act an article shall also be 
deemed to be misbranded : 

In case of drugs: 

First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under 
the name of another article.*^ 

Second. If the contents of the package as originally put 
lip shall have been removed, in whole or in part, and other 
contents shall have been placed in such package,'* or if the 
package fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity 
or proportion of any alcohol, morphine, opiimi, cocaine, 
heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis indica, 
chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any derivative or prepara- 
tion of any such substances contained therein." 

In the case of food : 

First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under 
the distinctive name of another article." 

Second. If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or 
mislead the purchaser, or purport to be a foreign product" 

"Pima 33. 33. Reg. '6, "Piges 37, 39, 43, «, "Pages as, 46. 48, S4. 60, 
Page 90. 54, js, Reg. 10, Page 61; Rr- - "- 



"Pagee 36 to 63. 
"F. I. D. S'. P«»e I 



54. SS. Beg. 10, Page 61; Reg. 21. Page 

01; Reg. 37, Pag«9S. 941 F. ITR- 47, Page 






Page 90, 
"Pages 40. 4a, 63. fiS. 
Reg. 17, me »a. 



; F. I. D. si, Page 19; Page g. 



S3. 71. 6ee.'i7. Wgi! "Page 49^ Reg. »8, Page ^^ lag'. 

90, F. I. D. 4", Page 96: F. I. D. 54, Page "Pagei S4. 5S. sSj Reg. 

«>fi. ^ 119; F. I. D. sj. Page 17. ^ge 91; Reg. 

,y Google 



The Food and Drugs Act, 79 

when not so,** or if the contents of the package as originally 
put up shall have been removed in whole or in part and other 
■ contents shall have been placed in such package," or if it 
fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or pro- 
portion of any morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or 
beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis indica, chloral hydrate, 
or acetanilide, or any derivative or preparation of any of 
such substances contained therein,'* 

Third. If in package form, and the contents are stated in 
terms of weight or measure, they are not plainly and cor- 
rectly stated on the outside of the package." 

Fourth. If the package containing it or its label'* shall 
bear any statement, design, or device regarding the ingre- 
dients or the substances contained therein, which statement, 
design, or device shall be false or misleading in any par- 
ticular :*' Provided, That an article of food which does not 
contain any added poisonous or deleterious ingredients" 
shall not be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded in the 
following cases: 

First : In the case of mixtures or compounds'* which may 
be now or from time to time hereafter known as articles of 
food, under their own distinctive names, and not an imita- 
tion of or offered for sale under the distinctive name of 
another article, if the name be accompanied on the same 
label or brand with a statement of the place where said 
article has been manufactured or produced.** 

Second In the case of articles labeled, branded, or tagged 
so as to plainly indicate that they are compounds," imita- 
tions,*' or blends,*^ and the word "compound," "imitation," 
or "blend," as the case may be, is plainly stated on the pack- 

"Pag« 37. 39. 43. <S, S4, "Pmb* as. J7. S8, S9.60. "Page* «. S4. S2: Re«. 

SSi Reg. 19. Fige 93. 61, 63! Rtg- »i, Tage 11, Page 94; F. I. D. 

"Page« 49, s6. „ 93T K. 1. E 4a. Page ju, Pim 106; F, I. 

"Page so, Reg. iS. Page loS; F. L D. 6s, Page S. fis. Owe lafl. 

"Paaa 15, '7i^6- ' 
>g. a,.'Wg 



K37.„S7, Reg- '9, "Page* 44, jBi Reg. ay, Reg. ai. Page 9,1: 

|Vge'; 



Page 96. F. r. D. 4a, . ^. 

_ — „, -_,. ,-. "Pagea 15. ai, sB, S9, 60, F, I. D. «s. Page 

"Pages 40. 4a, Keg. 17. 6l. fa; F, I. D. 4a, 

Page 90. Page 106; F, I, D. 

■" - '' '-. Page lifl. 



i by Google 



8o The Food and Drugs Act. 

age in which it is offered for sale : Provided, That the tenn 
blend as used herein shall be construed to mean a mixture 
of like substances," not excluding harmless coloring or fla- 
voring ingredients used for the purpose of coloring and 
flavorir^ only : And provided further, That nothing in this 
Act shall be construed as requiring or compelling proprietors 
or manufacturers of proprietary foods** which contain no 
unwholesome added ingredient to disclose their trade for- 
mulas, except in so far as the provisions of this Act may re- 
quire to secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding." 

Sec. 9.** That no dealer shall be prosecuted under the 
provisions of this Act when he can establish a guaranty 
signed by the wholesaler, jobber, manufacturer, or other 
party residing in the United States, from whom he pur- 
chases such articles, to the effect that the same is not adul- 
terated or misbranded within the meaning of this Act, desig- 
nating it. Said guaranty, to afford protection, shall contain 
the name and address of the party or parties making the 
sale of such articles to such dealer, and in such case said 
party or parties shall be amenable to the prosecutions, fines, 
and other penalties which would attach, in due course, to the 
dealer under the provisions of this Act," 

Sec. 10. That any article of food, drug, or liquor that is 
adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this Act, 
and is being transported from one State, Territory, District, 
or insular possession to another for sale, or, having been 
transported, remains unloaded, unsold, or in original un- 
broken packages, or if it be sold or offered for sale in the 
District of Columbia or the Territories, or insular posses- 
sions of the United States, or if it be imported from a 
foreign country for sale, or if it is intended for export to a 
foreign country, shall be liable to be proceeded against in 
any district court of the United States within the district 

■PhfC ti; F. I. D. 65, "F«»e, 61 Reg. 8, Page *S«eL t ud j, Pafc* 



ibyGoogle 



The Food and Drugs Act. 8i 

where the same is found, and seized'* for confiscation by a 
process of libel for condemnation. And if such article is 
condemned as being adulterated or misbranded, or of a 
poisonous or deleterious character, within the meaning of 
this Act, the same shall be disposed of by destruction or 
sale, as the said court may direct, and the proceeds thereof, 
if sold, less the legal costs and charges, shall be paid into the 
Treasury of the United States, but such goods shall not be 
sold in any jurisdiction contrary to the provisions of this 
Act or the laws of that jurisdiction : Provided, however. 
That upon the payment of the costs of such libel proceedings 
and the execution and delivery of a good and sufficient bond 
to the effect that such articles shall not be sold or otherwise 
disposed of contrary to the provisions of this Act, or the 
laws of any State, Territory, District, or insular possession, 
the court may by order direct that such articles be delivered 
to the owner thereof. The proceedings of such libel cases 
shall conform, as near as may be, to the proceedings in ad- 
miralty, except that either party may demand trial by jury 
of any issue of fact joined in any such case, and all such 
proceedings shall be at the suit of and in the name of the 
United States. 

Sec. u." The Secretary of the Treasury shall deliver to 
the Secretary of Agriculture, upon his request from time to 
time, samples of foods and drugs which are being imported 
into the United States or offered for import," giving notice 
thereof to the owner of consignee, who may appear before 
the Secretary of Agriculture, and have the right to introduce 
testimony, and if it appear from the examination of such 
samples that any article of food or drug offered to be im- 
ported into the United States is adulterated or misbrandetf. 
within the meaning of this Act, or is otherwise dangerous to^ 
the health of the people of the United States, or is of it 
kind forbidden entry into, or forbidden to be sold or re- 
stricted in sale in the country in which it is made or from 



, 13, Rttt.j3 ts jB, nse« 100 to 






i by Google 



82 The Food and Drugs Act. 

which it is exported, or is otherwise falsely labeled in any 
respect, the said article shall be refused admission, and the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall refuse delivery to the con- 
signee and shall cause the destruction of any goods refused 
delivery which shall not be exported by the consignee within 
three months from the date of notice of such refusal under 
such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may pre- 
scribe : Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury may 
deliver to the consignee such goods pending examination and 
decision in the matter on execution of a penal bond for the 
amount of the full invoice value of such goods, together with 
the duty thereon, and on refusal to return such goods for 
any cause to the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury, 
when demanded, for the purpose of excluding them from 
the country, or for any other purpose, said consignee shall 
forfeit the full amount of the bond : And provided further. 
That all charges for storage, cartage, and labor on goods 
which are refused admission or delivery shall be paid by the 
owner or consignee, and in default of such payment shall 
constitute a lien against any future importation made by such 
owner or consignee. 

Sec, 12. That the term "Territory" as used in this Act 
shall include the insular possessions of the United States." 
The word "person" as used in this Act shall be construed to 
import both the plural and the singular, as the case de- 
mands, and shall include corporations, companies, societies 
and associations. When construing and enforcing the pro- 
visions of this Act, the act, omission, or failure of any 
officer, agent, or other person acting for or employed by any 
corporation, company, society, or association, within the 
scope of his employment or office, shall in every case be also 
deemed to be the act, omission, or failure of such corpora- 
tion, company, society, or association as well as that of the 
person. 

Sec. 13. That this Act shall be in force and effect from 
and after the first day of January, nineteen hundred and 
seven. 

Approved, June 30, 1906. 



i by Google 



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT 
OF AGRICULTURE. 

Ofpicb op thb Sbcretary— ClVfuAlr AT*. 21 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL. 

Wasbincton, D. C, October i6, 1906. 
The Seeretariet of the Tretuury, of Agriculture, and of Commerce and 

Sns: The Commission appointed to represent your several Depart' 
ments in the formulation of uniform rules and regulations for the 
enforcement of the food and drugs act, approved June 30, 1906, has 
reached a unanimous agreement and respectfully suWits &ie results of 
its deliberations and recommends their adoption. 
Very respectfully, 

H. W. Wiley, 
Jaues L. Gerrv. 
S. N. D- NosTa. 



RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF 
THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT. 

Generau 

RiCULATION 1. ShOKT TtTLE OP THB ACT. 

The act, "For preventing the manufacture, sale, or trans- 
portation of adulterated or misbranded or poisonous or 
deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, and liquors, and for 
regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes," approved 
June 30, 1906, shall be knowrn and referred to as "The 
Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906." 

Regulation 2. Original Ukbkoksn Package. 

(Section 2.y 

The term "original unbroken package"* as used in this 

act is the original package, carton, case, can, box, barrel, 

bottle, phial, or other receptacle put up by the manufacturer, 

to which the label is attached, or which may be suitable for 

'Pmge 73. 'Pmm 3. 4. t, 7- 8. '4. ". 49. &(, ^, (6. 



; COOgIC 



$4 Rules and Regulation. 

the attachment of a label, making one complete package of 
the food or drug article. The original package contem- 
plated includes both the wholesale and the retail package. 

Regulation 3. Qhixction of Samples.' 
(Section 4.)* 

Samples of unbroken packages shall be collected only by 
authorized agents of the Department of Agriculture; or 
by the health, food, or drug officer of any State, Territory, 
or the District of Columbia, when commissioned by the 
Secretary of Agriculture for this purpose. 

Samples may be purchased' in the open market, and if 
in bulk the marks, brands, or tags upon the package, carton, 
container, wrapper, or accompanying printed or written 
matter shall be noted. The collector shall also note the 
names of the vendor and agent thru whom the sale was 
actually made, together with the date of purchase. The 
collector shall purchase representative samples. 

A sample shall be divided into three parts,* and each part 
shall be labeled with the identifying marks. All samples 
shall be sealed by the collector with a sea! provided for the 
purpose. If the package be less than 4 pounds, or in volume 
less than 2 quarts, three packages of approximately the same 
size shall be purchased and the marks and tags upon each 
noted as above. One sample shall be delivered to the party 
from whom purchased or to the party guaranteeing such 
merchandise.' One sample shall be sent to the Bureau of 
Chemistry, or to such chemist or examiner as may be desig- 
nated by the Secretary of Agriculture, and the third sample 
shall be held under seal by the Secretary of Agriculture. 

Regulation 4. Methods of Analysis.* 
(Section 4.)* 
Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture, the methods of analysis employed shall be those pre- 



•Pmie 13. 



i by Google 



Hearings. 85 

scribed by the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists 
and the United States Pharmacopceia, 

Regulation 5. Heaxings. 
(Section 4.)" 

(a) When the examination or analysis shows that the 
provisions of the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, have 
been violated, notice of that fact, together with a copy of 
the findings, shall be furnished to the party or parties from 
whom the sample was obtained or who executed the guar- 
anty as provided in the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, 
and a date shall be fixt at which such party or parties may 
be heard before the Secretary of Agriculture, or such other 
official connected with the food and drug inspection service 
as may be commissioned by him for that purpose. The 
hearings shall be had at a place, to be designated by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, most convenient for all parties 
concerned. These hearings shall be private and confined 
to questions of fact The parties interested therein may 
appear in person or by attorney and may propound proper 
interrogatories and submit oral or written evidence to show 
any fault or error in the findings of the analyst or examiner. 
The Secretary of Agriculture may order a re-examination 
of the sample or have new samples drawn for further exam- 
ination. 

(6) If the examination or analysis be found correct the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall give notice to the United 
States district attorney as prescribed." 

(c) Any health, food, or drug officer or agent of any 
State, Territory, or the District of Columbia who shall ob- 
tain satisfactory evidence of any violation of the food and 
drugs act, June 30, 1906, as provided in section 5 thereof, 
shall first submit the same to the Secretary of Agriculture, 
in order that the latter may cause notice to be given to the 
guarantor or to the party from whom the sample was ob- 
tained. 



i by Google 



86 Rules and Regulations. 

R2CULATION 6. PUBUCATIOH. 

(Section 4.)" 
(fl) When a judgment of the court shall have been ren- 
dered there may be a publication of the findings of the 
examiner or analyst, together with the findings of the 
court." 

(b) This publication may be made in the form of cir- 
culars, notices, or bulletins, as the Secretary of Agriculture 
may direct, not less than thirty days after judgment. 

(c) If an appeal be taken from the judgment of the 
court before such publication, notice of the appeal shall 
accompany the publication."* 

Regulation 7. Stanpaws fok Drugs. 
(Section 7.)" 

(a) A drug bearing a name recognized in the United 
States Phartnacopceia or National Formulary, without any 
further statement respecting its character, shall be required 
to conform in strength, quality, and purity to the standards 
prescribed or indicated for a drug of the same name recog' 
nized in the United States Pharmacopceia or National For- 
mulary, official at the time. 

(b) A drug bearing a name recognized in the United 
States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary, and branded 
to show a different standard of strength, quality, or purity, 
shall not be r^^rded as adulterated if it conforms to its 
declared standard. 

RxcuLATioN & Formulas — Proprietaky Foods. 
(Section 8," last paragraph.) 
(o) Manufacturers of proprietary foods are only required 
to state upon the label the names and percentages of the ma- 
terials used, in so far as the Secretary of Agriculture may 
find this to be necessary to secure freedom from adulter- 
ation and misbranding." 

«P«S« 7S- "Pw 18. "Page 79. 

»Fiac 17. "Pige 76. 



i by Google 



Guaranty. 87 

(6) The factories in which proprietary foods are made 
shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspection pro- 
vided for in Emulation 16." 

RecuLATioN g. Fcwm of Guaranty. 
(Section 9.)" 

(a) No dealer in food or drug products will be liable 
to prosecution if he can establish that the goods were sold 
under a guaranty by the wholesaler, manufacturer, jobber, 
dealer, or other party residing in the United Slates from 
whom purchased."" 

(b) A general guaranty may be filed with the Secretary 
of Agriculture by the manufacturer or dealer and be given 
a serial number, which number shall appear on each and 
every package of goods sold under such guaranty with the 
words, "Guaranteed under the food and drugs act, June 
30, 1906."" 

(c) The following form of guaranty is suggested." 

T (we) the undersigned do hereby guarantee that the articles of 
foods or drugs manufactured, packed, distributed, or sold by me (us) 
[specifying the same as fully as possible] are not adulterated or mis- 
branded within the meaning of the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906. 

(Signed in ink.) . 

[Name and place of business of wholesaler, dealer, manufacturer, job- 
ber, or other party.] 

(tf) If the guaranty be not filed with the Secretary of 
Agriculture as above, it should identify and be attached to 
the bill of sale, invoice, bill of lading, or other schedule giv- 
ing the names and quantities of the articles sold. 

Adulteration. 

RwtiLATiON 10. CoNncnONERV. 

(Section 7.)" 

(a) Mineral substances of all kinds (except as provided 

in Regulation 15) are specifically forbidden in confectionery 

whether they be poisonous or not. 



"Paire 64, F. I. n. 40, 
Tmc .OS- 

DigitzedbyGOOgle 



88 Rules and R^ulations. 

(b) Only harmless colors or flavors shall be added to 
confectionery. 

(c) The term "narcotic drugs" includes all the drugs 
mentioned in section 8, food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, 
relating to foods, their derivatives and preparations, and 
all other drugs of a narcotic nature. 

Regulation ii. Substances Mixt and Packed with Fo(»s. 
(Section 7,** under "Foods.") 
No substance may be mixt or packed with a food product 
which will reduce or lower its quality or strength.*' Not 
excluded under this provision are substances properly used 
in the preparation of food products for clarification or refin- 
ing, and eliminated in the further process of manufacture.*" 

Rbgui^tiok 13. CouttiNG, Pdwi^ing, Coating, and Staihikc. 

(Section 7" under "Foods.") 
(o) Only harmless colors may be used in food products.*' 
(ft) The reduction of a substance to a powder to conceal 
inferiority in character is prohibited." 

(c) The term "powdered" means the application of any 
powdered substance to the exterior portion of articles of 
food, or the reduction of a substance to a powder. 

(d) The term "coated"*" means the application of any 
substance to the exterior portion of a food product. 

(e) The term "stain"** includes any change produced by 
the addition of any substance to the exterior portion of 
foods which in any way alters their natural tint. 

Regulation 13. Natural Poisonous or Deleterious Increments." 

(Section 7," paragraph 5, under "Foods.") 
Any food product which contains naturally a poisonous 
or deleterious ingredient does not come within the provi- 
sions of the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, except when 

"Page 7J. "Pages 17, 34. "Page 18. 

■Psgea ai, 14. *S- "Page »?. "P»ge 19. 

"Paga as. So. "Page iS. 



i by Google 



Colors and Preservatives. 89 

the presence of such ingredient is due to filth, putrescence, or 
decomposition. 

Regulation 14. Extesnal Application of Pusekvatives.** 
(Section 7," paragraph 5, under "Foods," proviso.) 
(ij) Poisonous or deleterious preservatives shall only be 
applied externally, and they and the food products shall be 
of a character which shall not permit the permeation of any 
of the preservative to the interior, or any portion of the 
interior, of the product. 

(b) When these products are ready for consumption, if 
any portion of the added preservative shall have penetrated 
the food product, then the proviso of section 7, paragraph 5, 
under "Foods," shall not obtain, and such food products 
shall then be subject to the regulations for food products in 
general. 

(c) The preservative applied must be of such a character 
that, until removed, the food products are inedible. 

Reculation 15. Wholesomemess or CoLMi and Pkxseivatives.** 
(Section 7,* paragraph 5, under "Foods.") 

(o) Respecting the wholesomeness of colors, preserva- 
tives, and other substances which are added to foods, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall determine from chemical or 
other examination, tuider the authority of the agricultural 
appropriation act. Public 382, approved June 30, 1906, 
the names of those substances which are permitted or in- 
hibited in food products ; and such findings, when approved 
by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Com- 
merce and Labor, shall become a part of these regulations. 

(fr) The Secretary of Agriculture shall determine from 
time to time, in accordance with the authority conferred by 
the agricultural appropriation act. Public 382, approved 
June 30, 1906, the principles which shall guide the use of 
colors, preservatives, and other substances added to foods; 

"Pise i«, F. I. D. 4S, Page 114; P. I. D. ji, Fi|* m. 



i by Google 



90 Rules and Regulations. 

and when concurred in by the Secretary of the Treasury and 
the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, the principles so 
established shall become a part of these regulations. 

Regulation i6. Chabacteb of thk Raw Matebials, 
(Section ?,•• paragraph i, under "Drugs;" paragraph 6, under "Foods.") 

(a) The Secretary of Agriculture, when he deems it nec- 
essary, shall examine" the raw materials used in the manu- 
facture of food and drug products, and determine whether 
any filthy, decomposed, or putrid substance is used in their 
preparation. 

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall make such inspec- 
tions as often as he may deem necessary. 

Misbranding. 

Rxgulatioh 17. Label." 

(Section &)" 

(a) The term "label" applies to any printed, pictorial, or 
other matter upon or attached to any package of a food or 
drug product, or any container thereof. 

(&) The principal label shall consist, first, of all words 
which the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, specifically 
requires, to wit, the name of the substance or product ;*' the 
name of place of manufacture" in the case of food com- 
pounds or mixtures; words which show that the articles 
are compounds, mixtures, or blends ; the words "compound," 
"mixture," or "blend ;" or words designating the substances 
or their derivatives and proportions required to be named 
in the case of drugs and foods. AH these required words 
shall appear upon the principal label with no inter^'ening 
descriptive or explanatory reading matter. Second, if the 
name of the manufacturer*" and place of manufacture** are 
given, they shall also appear upon the principal label. Third, 



"Pa«ei 8, «6, 47. S3. S6. "Page 78. 

D,B,i,.db.Goo>^lc 



Labels. 9' 

elsewhere upon the principal label other matter may appear 
in the discretion of the manufacturer." 

(c) The principal label on foods or drugs for domestic 
commerce shall be printed in English (except as provided in 
Regulation ig), with or without the foreign label in the 
language of the country where the food or drug product is 
produced or manufactured." The size of type shall not be 
smaller than 8-point (brevier) caps: Provided, That in 
case the size of the package will not permit the use of 8-point 
cap type the size of the type may be reduced proportionately. 

(rf) The form, character, and appearance of the labels, 
except as provided above, are left to the judgment of the 
manufacturer. 

{e) Descriptive matter upon the label shall be free from 
any statement, design, or device regarding the article or the 
ingredients or substances contained therein, or quality there- 
of, or place of origin, which is false or misleading in any 
particular. 

{f) An article containing more than one food product or 
active medicinal agent is misbranded if named after a single 
constituent. 

In the case of drugs the nomenclature employed by the 
United States Pharmacopoeia and the National Formulary 
shall obtain. 

(g) The term "design" or "device" applies to pictorial 
matter of every description, and to abbreviations, characters, 
or signs for weights, measures, or names of substances. 

(A) The use of any false or misleading statement, de^ 
sign, or device shall not be justified by any statement given 
as the opinion of an expert or other person, appearing on 
any part of the label, nor by any descriptive matter explain- 
ing the use of the false or misleading statement, design, or 
device. 

(i) The regulation regarding the principal label will not 
be enforced until October i, 1907, in the case of labels 



i by Google 



92 Rules and Regulations. 

printed and now on hand, whenever any statement therein 
contained which is contrary to the food and drugs act, June 
30, 1906, as to character of contents, shall be corrected by a 
supplemental label, stamp, or paster. All other labels now 
printed and on hand may be used without change until Oc- 
tober I, 1907.** 

Regulation i& Nauk and Adiwess fx Makufactubeb. 
(Section a)" 

(o) The name of the manufacturer or producer, or the 
place where manufactured, except in case of mixtures and 
compounds having a distinctive name, need not be given 
upon the label, but if given, must be the true name and the 

true place." The words "packed for ," "distributed 

by ," or some equivalent phrase, shall be added to 

the label in case the name which appears upon the label 
is not that of the actual manufacturer or producer, or the 
name of the place not the actual place of manufacture or 
production.*^ 

(fr) When a person, firm, or corporation actually manu- 
factures or produces an article of food or drug in two or 
more places, the actual place of manufacture or produc- 
tion of each particular package need not be stated on the 
label except when in the opinion of the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture the mention of any such place, to the exclusion of the 
others, misleads the public.*' 

Regui^tion 19. Character of Name. 
(Section &)• 
(o) A simple or unmixt food or drug product not bear- 
ing a distinctive name shall be designated by its common 
name in the English language, or, if a drug, by any name 
recognized in the United States Pharmacopceia or National 
Formulary. No further description of its components or 
qualities is required, except as to content of alcohol, mor- 
phine, etc. 



i by Google 



Distinctive Name. 93 

(&) The use of a geographical name" shall not be per- 
mitted in connection with a food or drug product not manu- 
factured or produced in that place, when such name indicates 
that the article was manufactured or produced in that place. 

(c) The use of a geographical name*' in connection with 
a food or drug product will not be deemed a misbranding 
when by reason of long usage it has come to represent a 
generic term and is used to indicate a style, type, or brand ; 
but in all such cases the State or Territory where any such 
article is manufactured or produced shall be stated upon the 
principal label. 

(rf) A foreign name" which is recognized as distinctive 
of a product of a foreign country shall not be used upon an 
article of domestic origin except as an indication of the type 
or style of quality or manufacture, and then only when so 
qualified that it can not be offered for sale under the name 
of a foreign article. 

Regulation aa Distinctive Naub. 
(Section 8.)" 

(o) A "distinctive name"" is a trade, arbitrary, or fancy 
name which clearly distinguishes a food product, mixture, 
or compound from any other food product, mixture, or com- 
pound. 

(&) A distinctive name shall not be one representing any 
single constituent of a mixture or compound. 

(c) A distinctive name shall not misrepresent any prop- 
erty or quality of a mixture or compound. 

(d) A distinctive name shall give no false indication of 
origin, character, or place of manufacture, nor lead the pur- 
chaser to suiqwse that it is any other food or drug product. 

RbGULATION 31. COUPOVNDS, lUlTATIONS, DK BLBMDS WnHOUT DlS- 
TINCTIVB NaUB. 

(Section 8.)- 
(a) The term "blend"*' applies to a mixture of like sub- 
stances,** not excluding harmless coloring or flavoring in- 

"Pace 4$. "Ptga ij, n. 6a. "P^P 6'- ?• !■ D. 41, 

"Faic 45. ■Fuel J5, 17, fil. 61; F. Pite idS; F. I. D. 4s, 

■Puc sL I. a. 41, Pice ia6i Pace n a; F. 1. D. 6s, 

■P4IC 7S. F. I. D. 65, FmW m- "<< "9- 



i by Google 



94 Rules and R^ulations. 

gredients used for the purpose of coloring and flavoring 
only. 

(&) If any age is stated, it shall not be that of a single 
one of its constituents, but shall be the average of all 
constituents in their respective proportions. 

(c) Coloring and flavoring cannot be used for increas- 
ing the weight or bulk of a blend.'^ 

(d) In order that colors or flavors may not increase the 
volume or weight of a blend, they are not to be used in 
quantities exceeding i pound to 800 pounds of the blend. 

(e) A color or flavor can not be employed to imitate any 
natural product or any other product of recc^nized name 
and quality." 

if) The term "imitation" applies to any mixture or com- 
pound which is a counterfeit or fraudulent simulation of any 
article of food or drug.'* 

Regulation 22. Akitcles Without a Label. 
{Section 8^" para^aph I, under "Drugs;" paragraph i, under "Foods.") 
It is prohibited to sell or offer for sale a food or drug 
product bearing no label upon the package or no descriptive 
matter whatever connected with it, either by design, device, 
or otherwise, if said product be an imitation of or offered 
for sale under the name of another article." 

Regulation 23. Proper Branding not a Complete Guaranty. 

Packages which are correctly branded as to character of 
■contents, place of manufacture, name of manufacturer, or 
otherwise, may be adulterated and hence not entitled to enter 
into interstate commerce.** 

Regulation 24. Incompleteness op Branding. 

A compoimd shall be deemed misbranded if the label be 

incomplete as to the names of the required ingredients. A 

simple product does not require any further statement than 

"Piiei as. J7. 6". 6>i f- "P*** <r. "Ptge ji. 

fn. 4». Page '06; F. "Pige $9. F- I- D. jo. "Page 46. 

I. D. 4s. Page no; Page 115. "Page at. 
F. L D. 6s, Page nfl. 



i by Google 



Waste Materials. 95 

the name or distinctive name thereof, except as provided in 
Regtilations 19 (a)" and 28." 

Regulation 25, Substitution. 
(Sections 7" and 8.") 
(a) When a substance of a recognized quality commonly 
used in the preparation of a food or drug product is replaced 
by another substance not injurious or deleterious to health, 
the name of the substituted substance shall appear upon the 
label. 

(&) When any substance which does not reduce, lower, 
or injuriously aflfect its quality or strength, is added to a 
food or drug product, other than that necessary to its manu- 
facture or refining, the label shall bear a statement to that 
effect 

Regulation 26. Waste Materials." 

(Section &)" 
When an article is made up of refuse materials, frag- 
ments, or trimmings, the use of the name of the substance 
from which they are derived, unless accompanied by a state- 
ment to that effect, shall be deemed a misbranding. Pack- 
ages of such materials may be labeled "pieces," "stems," 
"trimmings," or with some similar appellation. 

Reculation 37. Mixtures ok Coupounds with Distinctivc Names.* 
(Section &* First proviso under "Foods," paragraph 1.) 

(0) The terms "mixtures" and "compounds" are inter- 
changeable and indicate the results of putting together two 
or more food products. 

(&) These mixtures or compounds shall not be imita- 
tions of other articles, whether simple, mixt, or compound, 
or offered for sale under the name of other articles. They 
shall bear a distinctive name and the name of the place where 

■Pure 9a. "P«ge 78. "Piga SS. W- F- I- D. 

"Pige !i<S. "Pagei 16. jj. 41, Psge ta6. 

■Pige 76. "Pije 78. 



i by Google 



96 Rules and R^Hlations. 

the mixture or compound has been manufactured or pro- 
duced. 

(c) If the name of the place be one which is found in 
different States, Territories, or countries, the name of the 
State, Territory, or country, as well as the name of the 
place, must be stated. 

Regulation 3Sl Substances Named in Dkugs or Foods. 
(Section 8.". Second under "Drugs;" second under "Foods.") 

(a) The term "alcohol" is defined to mean ccMnmon or 
ethyl alcohol." No other kind of alcohol is permissible in 
the manufacture of drugs except as specified in the United 
States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary. 

(&) The words alcohol, morphine, opium, etc., and the 
qtiantities and proportions thereof, shall be printed in letters 
corresponding in size with those prescribed in Reguhition 17, 
paragraph (c).^* 

(c) A drug, or food product except in respect of alcohol, 
is misbranded in case it fails to bear a statement on the 
label of the quantity or proportion'* of any alcohol, mor- 
phine, opium, heroin, cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine, chloro- 
form, cannabis indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any 
derivative or preparation of any such substances contained 
therein. 

(d) A statement of the maximimi quantity or proportion 
of any such substances present will meet the requirements, 
provided the maximum stated does not vary materially from 
the average quantity or proportion.^* 

(e) In case the actual quantity or proportion is stated it 
shall be the average quantity or proportion with the varia- 
tions noted in Regulation 29." 

(/) The following are the principal derivatives and 
preparations made from the articles which are required to 
be named upon the label.'* 

*Pi«e 78, ''P«gB Ji, F. I. D. 53, "P«Be oB. 

"pMB 51, F. I. D. 4j, Page 118; F. I. D. «, •*Pue so, F. I. D. S4. 

Faee ter. Pose iig; F. L D. Page 119: P. L D. js, 

"I^ge 91. s£, Pace no. Page 119; F. I. D. j?. 

"Pliie 51. Fk(e laa. 

DigitzedbyGOOgIC 



Derivatives. 97 

Alcohol, Ethyl : {Cologne spiritt, GratK alcohol. Rectified spirits. 
Spirits, and Spirits of wine.) 
Derivatives — 

Aldehyde, Ether, Ethyl acetate, Ethyl nitrite, and Paraldehyde. 
Preparations containing alcohol — 
Bitters, Brandies, Cordials, Elixirs, Essences, Fluidextracts, 
Spirits, Sirups, Tinctures, Tonics, Whiskies, and Wines. 

MOKPHINK, ALXALOm : 

Derivatives — 
Apomorphine, Dionine, Peronine, Morphine acetate. Hydrochlor- 
ide, Sulphate, and other salts of morphine. 
Preparations containing morphine or dertvalives of morphine — 
Bouses, Catarrh Snuff, Chlorodyne, Sompound powder of mor- 
phine, Crayons, Elixirs, Granules, Pills, Solutions, Sirups, Sup- 
positories. Tablets, Triturates, and Troches. 

Opiuh, Gun : 

Preparations of Opium— 
Extracts, Doiarcotized opium. Granulated opium, and Powdered 
opium. Bougies, Brown mixture. Carminative mixtures, Cray- 
ons, Dover's powder, Elixirs, Liniments, Ointments, Paregoric, 
Pills, Plasters, Sirups, Suppositories, Tablets, Tinctures, 
Troches, Vinegars, and Wines. 
Derivatives — 
Codeine, Alkaloid, Hydrochloride, Phoqihate, Sulphate, and other 
salts of codeine. 
Preparations containing codeine or its salts — 
Elixirs, Pills, Sirups, and Tablets. 



Cocaine hydrochloride, Oteate, and other salts. 
Preparations containing cocaine or salts of cocaine — 

Coca leaves, Catarrh powders. Elixirs, Extracts, Infusion of coca. 
Ointments, Paste pencils, Pills, Solutions, Sirups, Tablets, Tinc- 
tures, Troches, and Wines, 

HnoiN: 

Preparations containing heroin — 
Sinips, Elixirs, Pills, and Tablet!. 

Alpha ahd Beta Eucaihi : 
eparations — 
Mixtures, Ointments, Powders, and Solutions. 



PrePi 
Mi: 



Cblobofosu : 

Preparations conlatmng chloroform — 
OiIorBnodyne, Elixirs, Emulsions, Liniments, Mixtures, Spirits, 
and Simps. 

Cannabis Indica: 

Preparations of cannabis indica — 
Com remedies. Extracts, Mixtures, Pills, Powders, Tablets, and 
Tinctures. 

Chusal Hydkati {Chloral, U. S. Fhamucopoda, i8go) : 
Derivativet — 
Chloral acetophenonoxim. Chloral alcoholale, Cbloratemide. 



i by Google 



98 Rules and Regulations. 

Chloralimide, Chloral orthoform, Chloralose, Dormiol, Hypnal, 
and Uraline. 
Preparations eonlaining chloral hydrate or its derivatives — 
QiloraL camphorate. Elixirs, Liniments, Mixtures, Ointments, 
St^positories, Sirups, and Tablets. 

AcETANiUDE {Antifebrine, Phenylacetamide) : 
Derivatives — 
Acetphenetidine, Citrophen, Diacetanilide, Lactophenin, Methoxy- 
acetanilide, Methylacetanilide, Para-Iodoacetanilide, and Phe- 



Preparaiions contaitiiHg acetantiide or derivatives — 
Ajialsesics, Antineuralgics, Antirheumatics, Cachets, Capsules, 
CoTd remedies, Elixirs, Granular elfervescinff^ salts. Headache 
powders. Mixtures, Pain remedies. Pills, and Tablets. 

i RbGULATIOH 39. STATEHEIfT Of WbICBT OR MEASURE.^' 

(Section a" Third under "Foods.") 
(o) A statement of the weight or measure of the food 
contained in a package is not required." If any such state- 
ment is printed, it shall be a plain and correct statement of 
the average net weight or volume, either on or immediately 
above or below the principal label, and of the size of letters 
specified in Regulation 17.'* 

(&) A reasonable variation*" from the stated weight for 
individual packages is permissible, provided this variation is 
as often above as below the weight or volume stated. This 
variation shall be determined by the inspector from the 
changes in the humidity of the atmosphere, from the ex- 
posure of the package to evaporation or to absorption of 
water, and the reasonable variations which attend the filling 
and weighing or measuring of a package. 

Regitlation 30. Method w Stating QuANTrrv oa Propobtion. 
(Section &)" 

In the case of alcohol the expression "quantity" or "pro- 
portion"*^ shall mean the averj^e percentage by volume in 
the finished product. In the case of the other ingredients re- 
quired to be named upon the label, the expression "quantity" 
or "proportion"" shall mean grains or minims per ounce or 

"Pagei M. S7. F. 1. D. "Page s?- "Page s*- 

43. P»ge 107- "Pig* 91. "Pigei SI, S»- 



i by Google 



Exports and Imports. 99 

fluid ounce, and also, if desired, the metric equivalents there- 
for, or milligrams per gram or per cubic centimeter, or 
grams or cubic centimeters per kilogram or per liter; pro- 
vided that these articles shall not be deemed misbranded if 
the maximum of quantity or proportion be stated, as re- 
quired in Regulation 28 (rf)-" 

Exports and Imports of Foods and Drugs. 

Regui^tion 31. Pbepakation of Food Peoducts fob Expo«t. 
(Section 2.)" 

(a) Food products intended for export may contain 
added substances not permitted in foods intended for inter- 
state commerce, when the addition of such substances does 
not conflict with the laws of the countries to which the food 
products are to be exported and when such substances are 
added in accordance with the directions of the foreign pur- 
chaser or his agent. 

(b) The exporter is not required to furnish evidence that 
goods have been prepared or packed in compliance with the 
laws of the foreign coimtry to which said goods arc intended 
to be shipped, but suclv shipment is made at his own risk. 

(c) Food products for export under this r^^lation shall 
be kept separate and labeled to indicate that they are for 
export. 

(d) If the products are not exported they shall not be 
allowed to enter interstate commerce. 

Regui-mion 32. IiiPCWTED Food akd Diog Products. 
(Section 11.)" 
(a) Meat and meat food products'* imported into the 
United States shall be accompanied by a certificate of official 
inspection of a character to satisfy the Secretary of Agri- 
culture that they are not dangerous to health, and each 
package of such articles shall bear a label w hich shall iden- 



i by Google 



100 Rules and Regulations. 

tify it as covered by the certificate, which certificate shall 
accompany or be attached to the invoice on which entry is 
made. 

(b) The certificate shall set forth the official position of 
the inspector and the character of the inspection. 

(c) Meat and meat food products as well as all other 
food and drug products of a kind forbidden entry into or 
forbidden to be sold, or restricted in sale in the country in 
which made or from which exported, will be refused ad- 
mission. 

(d) Meat and meat food products which have been in- 
spected and past thu the customs may, if identity is retained, 
be transported in interstate commerce. 

ReGUIATION 33. DsCLARATKUf." 

{S«tion 11.)" 

(a) All invoices of food or drug products shipped to the 

United States shall have attached to them a declaration of 

the shipper, made before a United States consular officer, 

as follows : 

I, the undersigned, do solemnlj' and truly declare that I am the 

of the merchandise herein mentioned and described, and tkat it 

consists of food or drug products which contain no added substances 
injurious to health. 
These products were srown in and manufactured in by 

(ConntlT.) (CODIIRT.) 

~ during the year , and are exported from 

(lliu»°fi°>Hlu»n>.] (CIIT.) 

and consigned to . The products bear no false labels or marks, 

(cn».) 
contain added coloring matter or preservative , and 

are not of a character to cause prohibition or restriction in the country 
where made or from which exported. 

Dated at this day of , 19 — . 

(Signed) : . 

(&) In the case of importations to be entered at New 
York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, San Francisco, and 
New Orleans, and other ports where food and drug inspec- 



i by Google 



Imports. loi 

tion laboratories shall be established, this declaration shall 
be attached to the invoice on which entry is made. In other 
cases the declaration shall be attached to the copy of the 
invoice sent to the Bureau of Chemistry. 

Regulation 34. Denatukihg. 
{Section II.)" 
Unless otherwise declared on the invoice or entry, all sub- 
stances ordinarily used as food products will be treated as 
such. Shipments of substances ordinarily used as food pro- 
ducts intended for technical purposes must be accompanied 
1^ a declaration stating that fact, and must be so denatured 
as to prevent their use as foods. 

RievLATKHi 35. Bond, Iuporied Foods, and Drugs. 
(Section 11.)" 
Unexamined packages of food and drug products may be 
delivered to the consignee prior to the completion of the 
examination to determine whether the same are adulterated 
or misbranded upon the execution of a penal bond by the 
consignee in the sum of the invoice value of such goods with 
the duty added, for the return of the goods to customs cus- 
tody. 

RUULATIOH 36. MOTIPKJATIOIf OF VlOT^TION IW THK LAW. 

(Section 11.)" 
If the sample on analysis or examinatioi be found not to 
comply with the law, the importer shall be notified of the 
nature of the violation, the time and place at which final 
action will be taken upon the question of the exclusion 
of the shipment, and that he may be present, and submit 
evidence, which evidence (Form 15), with a sample of the 
article, shall be forwarded to the Bureau of Chemistry at 
Washington, accompanied by report card (Fonns 16, 17, 
18, 19, and 20). 



i by Google 



I02 Rules and Regulations. 

Regulation 37, Appeal to thb SECHETAsy of Acricolture and 
Reuuneration. 

(Section II.)" 
All applications for relief from decisions arising under the 
execution of the law should be addrest to the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and all vouchers or accounts for remuneration 
for samples shall be filed with the chief of the inspection 
laboratory, who shall forward the same, with his recom- 
mendation, to the Department of Agriculture for action. 

Regulation 3& Sbipuent Beyond tbe Jubisdiction op the United 
States. 
(Section 11.)" 
The time allowed the importer for representations regard- 
ing the shipment may be extended at his request to permit 
him to secure such evidence as he desires, provided that this 
extension of time does not entail any expense to the De- 
partment of Agriculture, If at the expiration of this time, 
in view of the data secured in inspecting the sample and 
such evidence as may have been submitted by the manufac- 
turers or importers, it appears that the shipment can not be 
legally imported into the United States, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall request the Secretary of the Treasury to 
refuse to deliver the shipment in question to the consignee, 
and to require its reshipment beyond the jurisdiction of the 
United States. 

Regijlation 39. Application op Regulations. 
These regulations shall not apply to domestic meat and 
meat food products which are prepared, transported, or sold 
in interstate or foreign commerce under the meat-inspection 
law and the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture 
made thereunder."' 

Regulation 40. Alteration and Auenduent of Regulations. 
These regulations may be altered or amended at any time, 



i by Google 



Rules and Regulations. 103 

without previous notice, with the concurrence of the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
Secretary of Commerce and Labor. 
The above rules and regulations are hereby adopted. 
Leslie M. Shaw, 
Secretary of the Treasury. 
Jaues WilsoNj 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Victor H. Metcalf, 
Secretary of Commerce and Labor, 
Washington, D. C, October 17, 1906. 



i by Google 



ibyGoogle 



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, 

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY. 



H. W. WILir. Chkl 01 BBHH 



FOOD INSPECTION DECISIONS. 

(F. /. D. 40.)" 
FILING GUARANTY. 

In order that both the Department and the manufacturer may be 
protected ag;ainst fraud it is requested that all guaranties of a general 
character filed with the Secretary of Agriculture in harmony with Reg- 
ulation g," Rules and Regulations for the Enforcement of the Food 
and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, be acknowledged before a notary or 
other official authorised to affix a seal. Attention is called to the fact 
that when a general guaranty has been thus filed every package of 
aitides of food and drugs put up under the guaranty should bear the 
legend, "Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906," 
and also the serial number assigned thereto, if the dealer is to receive 
the protection contemplated by the guaranty. No other word should 
go upon this legend or accompany it in any way. Particular attention 
is called to the fact that nothing should be placed upon the label, or 
in any printed matter accompanying it, indicating that the guaranty 
is made by the Department of Agriculture. The appearance of the 
serial number with the phrase above mentioned upon a label does not 
exempt it from inspection nor its guarantor from prosecution in case 
the article in question be found in any way to violate the food and 
drugs act of June 30, 1906. 

Approved : 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of AgricMllure. 

Wasrinctoit, D. C, October ^j, 1906. 

(F. /. D. 4r.) 

APPROVAL OF LABELS. 

Numerous requests are referred to this Department for the approval 
of labels to be used in connection with articles of food and drugs 
under the food and drn^ act of June 30, 1906. This act does not 
authorize the Secretary of Agriculture nor any agent of the Department 
to approve labels. The Department therefore will not give its approval 
to any label. Any printed matter upon the label implying that this 



i TirlcticmTlj concern irnportrd foods < 
t food lad druii >cl. Jiioe 30, i^oi. 



onir > 



i by Google 



io6 FockI Inspection Decisions. 

Department has approved it will be without warrant. It is believed 
that with the law and the regulations before him the manufacturer 
will have no difficulty in arranging his label in harmony with the re- 
quirements set forth. If there be questions on which there is doubt 
respecting the general character of labels, decisions under the food 
and drugs act will be rendered, of a public character and published from 
time to time, covering such points. 

Approved : 

Jahes Wn,soN, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, October ^j, 1906. 

(F. /. D. 4^.) 
MIXING FLOURS. 

The following communication has been received respecting the mix- 
ing of flours of different cereals: 

In conformity with the customs of a century or more, the manufac- 
turers of rye flour, in order to produce a lighter and more easily 
worked flour, have added a proportion of wheat flour to their rye and 
branded it "Rye Flour." 

This custom simply conforms to the customers' demand for a 
whiter loaf and from every standpoint is a perfectly legitimate oper- 

Under the interpretation of the food and drugs act of June 30, 
19015, apparent restrictions are placed upon this compounding, and 
I would therefore respectfully ask your ruling upon the following 
points: 

1. Under this interpretation will it be necessary to add the word 
"compound" to the brands? 

2. Will it be necessary in accordance with this interpretation to 
name in the brand the fact that a wheat admixture has been made, 
in addition to the use of the word "compound," providing that word 
is necessary? 

3. Referring to paragraph /, Regulation 17," which reads as follows: 

"An article containing more than one food product or active 
medicinal agent is misbranded if named after a smgle constituent," 

will it be permissible to still name the rye-wheat admixture "rye 

The food and drugs act of June 30, 1906, and the rules and regula- 
tions made thereunder, provide for the proper marking of food products 
and penalties for misbranding. 

The act also provides that a food product is not misbranded "in the 
case of articles labeled, branded, or tagged so as to plainly indicate 
that they are compounds, imitations, or blends, and the word 'com- 
pound,' 'imitation,' or 'blend,* as the case may be, is plainly stated on 
the package in which it is offered for sale."** 

Keeping in view these provisions of the law, and rules and regulations 
made thereunder, it appears that the mixing of rye flour and wheat 

"P»je 91. "Sec. 8, ptce j). 



i by Google 



Relabeling. 107 

fionr is not prohibited by the law provided the package is marked 
"compound" or "mixture," the word standing alone and without qual- 
ification, and also if the label cotitatn the information which shows 
that it is properly branded. The mixture may also be denominated a 
"blend" if rye flour and wheat flour be regarded as like substances. 
It is held that this information in the case mentioned would be a state- 
ment of the ingredients used in making the compound. It is further 
held that the use of an ingredient in small quantity simply for the 
purpose of naming it in the list of ingredients would be contrary to 
the intent of the law, and therefore that the ingredients must be used 
in quantities which would justify the appearance of their names upon 
the label. The statement made of the constituents used should be of a 
character to indicate plainly that the article is a compound, mixture, 
or blend. 

It is evident from the above explmnation that the naming of a mix- 
ture of this kind "rye flour" would be plainly a violation of the law 
and the regulations made thereunder. 

Attention is called also to the act of Congress approved June 13, 
189% U. S. Revised Statutes, sections 36 to 49, inclusive, imposing 
special taxes under the supervision of the Commissioner of Internal 
Revenue on mixed flour. 

Approved : 

W. M. Hays, 

Acting Secretary . 

Washington, D. C, October 30, 1906. 

(F. I. D. 43.) 
RELABELING OF GOODS ON HAND, 
The following is a type of numerous communications received con- 
cerning the operation of the food law ; 

The retail grocers of our city, as welt as some of the jobbers, are 
very much concerned over stocks of canned goods and other similar 
goods they might have in stock on January I, 1907. when the new 
pure-food act goes into effect 

We are under the impression that where there is nothing deleterious 
to health contained in such goods so held it is not the Department's 
intention to interfere in anv way, shape, or form with them. 

Where these goods arc held by retailers in our own city does this 
come within the jurisdiction of the National law, or it is controlled 
only by State laws? 

Similar letters have been received relating to dnigs, medicines, and 
other articles affected by the operation of the law. A general answer 
is deemed advisable, which, it is hoped, will cover the cases in question. 

Section (i) of Regulation 17" provides that — 



i by Google 



io8 Food Inspection Decisions. 

whenever any statement therein contained which is contrary to the 
food and drags act, June 30, 1906, as to character of contents, shall 
be corrected by a supplemental label, stamp, or paster. AH other labels 
now printed and on hand may be used without change until October 
I, 1907. 

It is held that under this reg^ulation labels which contain statements 
relating to the name of manufacturer, the place of manufacture, etc., 
which are not in harmony with the <reneral meaning of the law may be 
used if on hand on the 1st of January, 1907, the day on which the 
regulations become effective. Any statement, however, respecting the 
character of the contents which is false or misleading sho\ild be cor- 
rected as indicated. Tite correction should secure the obliteration of 
the misstatement either by placing the supplemental label or paster 
over it or obliterating it in some other way. If the goods contain arti- 
ficial color or preservative other than ordinary condimental substances 
(salt, sugar, vinegar, wood smoke, spices, and condiments of all kinds), 
that fact should appear upon the supplemental stamp or paster. If any 
of the words required to be placed upon drugs and foods in the specific 
wording of the act do not appear upon the label, such as alcohol, opium, 
etc, it is held that the correction must include the enumeration of these 
substances, as provided for in Regulations 2^ and ag." 

If goods that are packed and sealed in a carton which contains the 
bottle or other package also sealed and labeled were not in the hands 
of the manufacturer after January I, 1907, but had been already 
delivered to the jobber or dealer, it will be held sufficient to mark the 
external carton alone, provided the goods are sold only in the unbroken 
carton. If the container, however, holds a large number of separate 
packages, it will be necessary that each of the separate packages to be 
sold as such shall be labeled with the words required specifically by 
the act. 

It must not be forgotten that Regulation 17, section (i)," is for the 
purpose of avoiding the expense of relabeling articles already padced 
and branded at the time the regulations go into effect and which 
necessarily could not have been so packed and branded with any intent 
to evade the provisions of the law, and it is expected that jobbers and 
dealers will do everything in their power to bring the packages now on 
hand into as close harmony with the provisions of the act and the reg- 
ulations made thereunder as possible. 

All articles in the hands of manufacturers, jobbers, and dealers on 
the 1st day of January, 1907. which are sold wholly within the State 
in which they are foimd on that date arc exempt from the provisions 
of the act. Thus the use of the supplemental label, stamp, or paster 
is required only on those articles which on or after the 1st day of 
January, 11)07, enter interstate commerce or are offered for sale in the 
District of Columbia and the Territories. It is believed that the 
provisions of Regulation 17, section <i)." can be complied with without 

*"Psge s6. "Ftge 98. "Piige 91. 



i by Google 



Food Inspection Decisions. 109 

great annoyance and expense. It will be deemed sufiicient if the sup- 
plemental pasters and labels are attached at the time the goods are 
shipped beyond the State line, that is, they need not necessarily be 
attached to such article on the ist day of January, but at any time there- 
after when prepared for interstate commerce. Thus the labor of 
meeting this requirement will be distributed according to the exegencies 
of actual trade. On and after October i, 1907, the labels must be 
originally properly printed, and no further amendment will be con- 
sidered. 

Approved: 

W. M. Hays, 

Acting Secretary. 
Washington, D. C, November 6, 1906. 
(K /. D. 44.) 
SCOPE AND PURPOSE OF FOOD-INSPECTION DEQSIONS. 
From the tenor of many inquiries received in this Dep;irtment it 
ajtptan that many persons suppose that the answers to inquiries 
addressed to this Department, either in letters or in published de- 
cisions, have the force and effect of the rules and regulations for tiie 
enforcement of the food and drugs act of June 3C^ 1906- The following 
are illustrations of the inquiries received by this Department: 



On a brand of salad oil, which is a winter-strain cotton-seed oil, can 
it be sold under the brand of salad oil, or must it state that it u 
cotton-seed oil? 

It seems highly desirable that an erroneous opinion of this kind 
should be corrected. The opinions or decisions of this Department do 
not add anything to the rules and regulations nor take anything away 
from them. They therefore are not to be considered in the light of 
rules and regulations. On the other hand, the decisions and opinions 
referred to express the attitude of this Department in relation to the 
interpretation of the law and the rules and regulations, and they are 
published for the information of the officials of the Department who 
may be charged with the execution of the law and especially to acquaint 
manufacturers, jobbers, and dealers with the attitude of this Depart- 
ment in these matters. They are therefore issued more in an advisory 
than in a mandatoiy spirit. It is clear that if the manufacturers, job- 
bers, and dealers interpret the rules and regulations in the same man- 
ner as they are interpreted by this Department, and follov^ that inter- 
pretation in their business transactions, no prosecution will lie against 
them. It needs no argument to show that the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture must himself come to a decision in every case before a prosecu- 
tion can be initiated, since it is on his report that the district attorney 



i by Google 



no Food Inspection Decisions. 

is to begin a prosecution for tbe enforcement of the provisions of 
the act 

In so far as possible it is advisable that the opinions of this Depart- 
ment respecting the questions which arise may be published. It may 
often occur that the opinion of this Department is not that of Che man- 
ufacturer, jobber, or dealer. In this case there is no obligation resting 
upon the manufacturer, jobber, or dealer to follow the line of proce- 
dure marked out or indicated by the opinion of this Department. Each 
one is entitled to his own opinion and interpretation and to assume 
tiie responsibility of acting in harmony therewith. 

It may be proper to add that in reaching opinions and decisions on 
these cases the Department keeps constantly in view the two great 
purposes of the food and drugs act, namely, to prevent misbranding 
and to prohibit adulteration. From the tenor of the correspondence 
received at this Department and from the oral hearings which have 
been held, it is evident that an overwhelming majority of the manufac- 
turers, jobbers, and dealers of this country are determined to do their 
utmost to conform to the provisions of the act, to support it in every 
particular, and to accede to the opinions of this Department rejecting 
its construction. It is hoped, therefore, that the publication of the 
<^inions and decisions of the Department will lead to the avoidance 
of litigation which might arise due to decisions which may be reached 
ty this Department indicating violations of the act, violations which 
would not have occurred had the opinions and decisions of the Depart- 
inent been brought to the attention of the offender. 

Jambs Wilson, 
Secretary of AgricuUurt. 
Wasbinoion, D. C, December I, 1906. 

(F. I. D. 45.) 

BLENDED WHISKIES. 

Many letters are received by the Department making ini^uiries con- 
cerning the proper method of labeling blended whisky. Manufacturers 
are anxious to know the construction placed by the Department upon 
this particular part of the food and drugs act of June 30, 1906, and 
to ascertain under what conditions the wor<ds "blended whisky" or 
"Vhiskies" may be used. The following quotation from one of these 
letters presents a particular case of a definite character; 

On account of the uncertainty prevailing in our trade at the present 
time as to how to proceed under the pure-food law and regulations re- 

Srding what will be considered a blend of whiskies, I am taking the 
erty of expressing to you to-day two samples of whisky made up 
as follows: 

Sample A contains 51 per cent of Bourbon whisky and 49 per cent 
•of neutral spirits. In this sample a smalt amount of burnt sugar is 



i by Google 



Blended Whiskies. iii 

used for coloring, and a small amount of prune juice is used for flavor- 
ing, neither of which increases the volume to any great extent. 

Sample B contains 51 per cent of neutral spirits and 49 per cent of 
Bourbon whisky. Burnt sugar is used for coloring, and prune juice 
is used for flavoring, neither of which increases Uie volume to any 
great extent 

I_ have marked these packages "blended whiskies" and want your 
ruling as to whether it is proper to thus brand and label such goods. 

My Ini^uiry is for the purpose of guiding the large manufacturing 
interests m the trade that I represent 

In a subsequent letter from the same writer the following additional 
statement is made: 

The reason for wanting your decision or ruling in this matter is 
just this: No house in the trade can afford to put out goods and run 
the risk of seizure and later litigation by the Government on account 
of the odium that would be attached to fighting the food and drugs 

The question presented is whether neutral spirits may be added to 

Bourbon whisky in varying quantities, colored and flavored, and the 

resulting mixture be labeled "blended whiskies." To permit the use 

of the word "whiskies" in the described mixture is to admit that flavor 

and color can be added to neutral spirits and the resulting mixture 

be labeled "whisky." The Department is of opinion that the mixtures 

presented can not legally be labeled either "blended whiskies" or 

"blended whisky." The use of the plural of the word "whisky" in 

the first case is evidently improper for the reason that there is only 

* one whisky in the mixture. If neutral spirit, also known as col(^;ne 

spirit, silent spirit, or alcohol, be diluted with water to a proper proof 

for consumption and artificially colored and artificially flavored, it 

does not become a whisky, but a "spurious imitation" thereof, not 

entirely unlike that defined in section 3344, Revised Statutes. The 

mixture of such an imitation with a genuine article can not be regarded 

as a mixture of like substances within the letter and intent of the law. 

James Wilson, 

Secretars of Agricuthire. 

Washington, D. C, December i, 1906. 

(.F. I. D. 46.) 

FICTITIOUS FIRM NAMES. 

The following extract from a letter is typical of a question frequently 
asked: 

In connection with our manufacture of flavoring extracts, we pro- 
duce an article containing a certain percentage of artificial coumarin 
and vanillin. This product has been placed on the market under the 

name of and Company, a fictitious firm, although dealers 

have always understood that it was our product. Is there any objec- 
tion to our contimiing to brand the product as manufactured by 

.and Company? 



i by Google 



112 Food Inspection Decisions. 

The same question has frequently b«en asked by importers who 
state that they desire to assume the responsibility for particular brands. 
It has been held by the Attorney-General (F. I. D. 2) that— 

the words " • • • Daisy Sugar Com, Company, 

Milwaukee, Wis.," clearly imply that the goods referred to are manu- 
factured or prepared by that company in Wisconsin, The general 
public, unfamiliar with trade practices, would inevitably rea^ that 

conclusion. 

Regulation 18" provides that if the name of the manufacturer and 
the place of manufacture be given, they must be the true name and 
the true place. It would appear, therefore, that the use of a fictitious 
name in such a manner that it would be understood to be the name 
of the manufacturer would be clearly a violation of Regulation I&" 
It is ^parent that the provisions of Regulation 18" will not be ful- 
filled by the nominal incorporation of a fictitious firm. The regulations 
require that goods must be actually manufactured by the firm repre- 
Hnted on the label as the manufacturer. 

When a proper name, other than that of the manufacturer, is placed 
upon a label it must not be used in the possessive. For instance, 

CBABLES Gaston's 



can (Mily be properly used on an oil manufactured by Charles Gaston at 
Bordeaux. The same is true if the designation 

Gaston's 

olivz oil 

bordeaux 
be employed. 

On the Other hand, the word "Gaston" might be used in an adjective 
sense, and not in the possessive case as qualifs^i^ the words "olive 
oil," in a manner that would indicate that it represented a brand and 
not a manufacturer, as 

GASTON OLIVE OIL. 

In such case, however, neither given name nor initials should be em- 
ployed. The word "Gaston" should be in the same type as "olive 
oil" and in equal prominence, thus forming a part of the label. Again, 
"Gaston," or "Charles Gaston," might be used accompanied by the 
word "Brand," as, 



i by Google 



Flavoring Extracts. 113 

In such cases, however, the name ot the rnanufacturer should also be 
given. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculturf. 
Washinctoh, D. C, December 13, 1906. 

(F. /. D. 47.) 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 

The percentage of alcohol is not required to be stated in the case 
of extracts sold for the preparation of foods only. It it held, how- 
ever, that extracts which are sold or ascd for any medicinal purpose 
whatever should have the percentage of alcohol stated on the label. 

Numerous inquiries are received regarding the proper designation 
of products made in imitation of flavoring extracts or in imitation of 
flavors. Such products include "Imitation vanilla flavor," which is 
nude from such products as tonka extract, coumarin, and vanillin, 
with or without vanilla extract. They may also include numerous 
preparations made from synthetic fmit ethers intended to imitate 
strawberry, banana, pineapple, etc. Such products should not be so 
designated as to convey the impression that they have any relation 
to the flavor prepared from the fruit Even when it is not practicable 
to prepare the flavor directly from the fniit, "imitation" is a better 
term than "artificial." 

These imitation products should not be designated by terms which 
indicate in any way by similarity of name that they are prepared from 
a natural fruit or from a standard flavor. The term "venallos," for 
instance, would not be a proper descriptive name for a preparation 
intended to imitate vanilla extract. Such products should either be 
designated by their true names, such as "vanilla and vanillin flavor," 
"vanillin and coumarin flavor," or by such terms as "imitation vanilla 
flavor," or "vanilla substitute." 

Articles in the preparation of which such substitutes are employed 
should not be labeled as if they were prepared from standard flavor! 
or from the fruits themselves. For instance, ice cream flavored with 
imitation strawberry flavor should not be designated as "strawberry 
ice cream." If sold as strawberry ice cream without a label the product 
would appear to be in violation of Regulation 22.*" 

Artificial colors should be declared whenever present 

James Wilsoh, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Wasriscton, D. C, December 13, ipo6. 



i by Google 



Food Inspection Decisions. 



(F. /. D. 4S.) 

SUBSTANCES USED IN THE PREPARATION OF FOODS. 

The following letter was recently received at the Depirtment of 
Agriculture : 

We import a preparation of gelatin preserved with sulphurous acid 
for the purpose of fining wine. This gelatin is not used as a food 
and does not remain in the wine, although a small amount of the sul- 
phurous acid may be left in the wine. Please inform us if the sale of 
this product is a violation of the food law. 

It is held that the products commonly added to foods in their prep- 
aration are properly classed as foods and come within the scope of 
the food and drugs act The Department can not follow a food pro- 
duct into consumption in order to determine the use to which it is 
put. Pending a decision on the wholesomeness of sulphurous add as 
provided in Regulation 15 (ft),' its presence should be declared. 

Jaues Wilson, 
Secretary of AgrkultHre. 
Washinotos, D. C, December 13, 1906. 



TIME REQUIRED TO REACH DECISIONS ON DIFFERENT 

PROBLEMS CONNECTED WITH THE FOOD 

AND DRUGS ACT, JUNE 30. 1906. 

Many letters have reached the Department asking for action on 
very important questions connected with the food and drugs act which 
require much study and time to secure all the facts necessary to the 
rendering of a just decision. It is quite impossible to answer all such 
letters in detail. The following general statement shows the attitude 
of the Department on questions of this kind : 

All manufacturers and dealers have copies of the law and regula- 
tions or can secure them and study them carefully. Each manufac- 
turer and dealer should conduct his business as nearly as possible 
in harmony with the law as he interprets it. When each particular 
problem mvolved reaches a solution in this Department, it is hoped it 
will be found that the manufacturers and jobbers have come also to a 
jimilar decision in the matter. Public notice will be given of each de- 
cision as it is issued, that the manufacturers and dealers may be inform- 
ed and be able at once to place themselves in line with the decisions 
of the Department In this way it is hoped that all injustice will be 
avoided in the execution of the law and everyone be given an 
(^>portunity to put himself right and to have due notice of decisions 
which may be made. 



i by Google 



Imitations. 115 

The Department will use every endeavor to reach prompt decisions, 
but must take time to collect the facts and subject them to a proper 
study; otherwise the decbions would not have the value which should 
attach to them in important matters affecting the execution of the law. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washincion, D. C, January 8, 1907. 
(F. ;. D. SO.) 
IMITATION COFFEE. 
A manufacturer writes as follows: 

We b^ to ask for your opinion as regards the hyphenated word 
"Cereal-Coffee," and whether or not we are entitled to its use for a 
cereal substitute for coffee. * • • In our opinion the term "Cereal- 
Coffee" would come under the so-called trade name and distinctive 

It is held that since the product mentioned is not a coffee it can not 
properly be called by the term mentioned. Reg^ulation aa (d)' pro- 
vides that a distinctive name shall give no false indication of charac- 
ter. The use of the name "cereal-coffee" migjit be taken to indicate 
that the product is coffee or has the properties of coffee, and hence the 
use of this term does not comply with the definition of distinctive 
name. Even if the product consist in part of coffee, the name would 
not be correct It is suggested that products of this nature be desig- 
nated as "imitation coffee," as provided in Regulation 21 (f).' In 
such case the word "imitation" should be in uniform type, on uniform 
background, and should be given equal prominence with the word 
"coffee." 

JaUE3 WtLSDM, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washingtok, D. C, January /?, 1907. 

C F. I. D. J/.) 
COLORING OF BUTTOl AND CHEESE. 
Numerous inquiries, of which the following is an illustration, have 
been received by the Department: 

Will you kindly inform me concerning the coloring of butter and 
cheese under the pure-food law? Would it be unlawful to color 
butter and dieese as now practiced? 

The coloring of butter is specifically permitted in &e law of August 
2, 1886 (24 Stat., aop), and the coloring of cheese in the law of 
June 6, iSgis (29 Stat., 253)- It >* he'd by the Department that the 



i by Google 



1 16 Food Inspection Decisions. 

food and drugs act does not repeal the provisions of the acts referred 
to above and the addition of harmless color to these substances may 
be practiced aa therein provided, and that the presence of coloring 
matter specifically reci^nized by acts of Congress as a constituoit u 
not required to be declared on the label. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of AgrictiUiire. 
Wasbihgtdm, D. C, January i8, 1907. 

(F. I. D. 5^.) 

FORM OF LABEL. 

The following is an extract from a letter recently received : 

We do not understand the requirements of the regulations re^tect- 
ittg the arrangement of labels; that is, the order in which the various 
features of the label should be arranged. 

To meet the requests for the opinion of the Department regardiiv 
the proper arrangement of a label, the following order is suggested: 

I. Name of substance or product. 

3. In case of foods, words which indicate that the articles are com- 
pounds, mixtures, or blends, and the word "Imitation," "Compound," 
or "Blend," as the case may be. 

3. Statements designating the quantity or proportion of the ingre~ 
dients enumerated in the law, or derivatives and preparations of same* 
as mentioned under Regulation 28;* also statements of other extraneous 
substances whose presence should be declared, such as harmless color- 
ing matter, or any necessary statement regarding grade or quality, 

(The statements specified in paragraphs i, 2, and 3, should appear 
together without any intervening descriptive or explanatory matter.) 

4. Name of manufacturer (if given). 

S- Place of manufacture (if given, or when required in case of food 
mixtures or compounds bearing a distinctive name). 

It is stated in Regulation 17* that if the name of the manufacturer 
and place of manufacture be given they should appear upon the prin- 
cipal label Although the law does not require that the name of the 
manufacturer be given, or the place of manufacture, except in case of 
food mixtures and compounds having a dbtinctive name, it is held 
that if they are given they must be true, and should be placed with 
the required information on the principal label. The arrangement of 
the label is the same for both food and drug products and an example 
of each is given. 

t Attention ■■ «sJ1«d to tbe tKt tlwt tlu dedaiMlan of alcohid and IH derlvatlVM Ii 
not requlpwl In foodi. 

'P*ge gfi. *P*ce go. 



ibyGoogle 



Form of Label, 
StmfU Uttl fir fMd pr»duet. 



[Naoie of pcodncl.] 



KETCHUP. 
ARTIFICIALLY COLORED. 



INtmesf manufacturer, 

if aivm.] 
IPlaE« o( maDufacture. ii 



BLANK & CO.. 
PORTLAND, ME. 

|DeicripEi<re natter. 1( deaircd>] 



Samfli Ubtt ftr drug pndurl. 



(Name of product.) 
[Declaralknii required br 



(Nam* of manufactnTFT. 

it Biyen-I 
[Place of mannlactan. if 



COUGH SYRUP. 

ALCOHOL, 10 PER CENT. 
MORPHINE, }i GRAIN PER 

OUNCE. 
CHLOROFORM, 40 MINIMS 

PER OUNCE. 



IDeaeripHre 



er. if daired. b 



preferably at iMtMtn of ia 

JOHN JONES tc CO., 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 

(Dcicript>*e matter, if duircd.| 



Any descriptive or explanatorr matter that may appear on the 
principal label, therefore, should be placed at the bottom of the label, 
or between No. 3 and No. 4, and should be clearly separated from 
other features of the label by means of a suitable line or space. 
Statements regarding the reason for using alcohol, artificial coloring 
matter, and other extraneous substances, come under the head of 
descriptive or explanatory matter, and should not be interspersed with 
the declarations required under Nos. 2 and 3. 

The information called for under No. 3 should not be so worded as 
to give only the required information, as, for example, "alcohol 17 per 
cent" or "artificially colored." All numbers used in expressing quan- 
tity or proportion of substances required to be stated (see Regulation 
aS") should be expressed in the Arabic notation. 

Eadi substance required to be declared under No. 3 should be 



i by Google 



I iS Food Inspection Decisions, 

printed on a separate line and in type specified in Regulation 17 (c).* 

Jaubs Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washingtom, D. C, January 18, 1907. 

(_F. I. D. S3.) 

FORMULA ON THE LABEL OF DRUGS. 

Many inquiries are received relative to the necessity of giving the 
formula of medicinal remedies on the label. The following is typical : 

I should like to know if it will be necessary for me to state on a 
label the name of the products from which I prepare my proprietary 
medicine in order to conform with the pure food and drugs act If 
I do this, it win prohibit me from manufacturing and selling a remedy 
whidi is a secret of my own ; and anyone buymg it could, from the 
label, tell what ingredients were used in its preparation and make his 
own supply of this medicine. How does the United States Govern- 
ment expect to protect those who have secret medicinal preparations 
they wish to sell at a profit? If the Pure Food Commission desires, 
I will send them a sample bottle of my medicine for their inspection 
and approval 

The food and drugs act, June 30. 1906, does not require the for- 
mula of drug products to be given on the label, but requires only that 
the quantity or proportion of the ingredients enumerated in the law, 
and derivatives and preparations of same (Regulation 26),' shall be 
clearly set forth on the label or labels of all preparations used for the 
treatment or prevention of disease, either internally or externally, 
for man or other animals. This includes sample packages as well as 
regular trade packages. 

The question is also frequently asked whether a medicinal prepara- 
tion would he exempt from the operation of the law if the formula 
were given on the label. The formula on the label is very desirable, 
but this information is not required by the law. The act forbids the 
use of any statement, design, or device in connection with any drug 
product which is false or misleading in any particular. A defect of 
this kind would not be corrected by giving the formula on the lahte. 
If the formula is given, it must be the correct and complete formula. 
It is held that, in addition to those substances required by the act to 
be named, if only a part of the active medinieal agents used in the 
manufacture of a drug product are set forth on the label, such a pro- 
cedure is misleading and therefore forbidden by the law. All drug 
products and their labels must conform to the act, whether the for- 
mula is or is not given on the label. 

Jaiies Wilsok, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Wasbiwcton, D. C., January rf, J907. 



i by Google 



Quantity or Proportion, 
(P. ;. D. 54.) 



The question of stating the percentage of alcohol present in drug 
products hsLs caused a multitude of inquiries. The following questions 
along this line serve as examples : 

Is it necessary to ^ive the amount of alcohol present in U. S. 
Pharmacopceial or National Formulary products? It seems to me that 
such a requirement is absurd, and not contemplated within the spirit 
of the act None of them are patent medicines. Will 1 he compelled 
to tell how much alcohol is present in such goods ? 



similar preparations? 

The law is specific on the subject of declaring the amount of alcohol 
present in medicinal agents, as can readily be seen from the following 
language : "An article shall also be deemed misbranded * * * if 
the package fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or 
proportion of any alcohol • • • contained therein." No medicinal 
preparations are exempt, whether they are made according to formulae 
given in the U. S, Pharmacopceia or National Formulary or tormulje 
taken from any other source. The serial number, with or without the 
guarantee legend, does not exempt a preparation from this require- 
ment. The law does not make any statement as to the amount of alco- 
hol that may or may not be employed. It requires, however, that what- 
ever amount be present shall he set forth on the label. The percentage 
of alcohol given on the label should be the percentage of absolute 
alcohol by volume contained in the finished product. The manner in 
which it should be printed is shown in F. I. D. 52. 

Jahbs Wilson, 
Secretary of Agricutlurr. 
Washington, D. C, March 13, 1907. 



METHOD OF STATING QUANTITY OR PROPORTION OF 

PREPARATIONS (CONTAINING OPIUM. MORPHINE, 

ETC.) USED IN MANUFACTURING OTHER 

PREPARATIONS. 

Many inquiries are received as to the method of stating the quantity 
or proportion of preparations (containing opium, morphine, etc.) used 
in rtie manufacture of other preparations. Of these the following are 
typical : 



i by Google 



120 Food Inspection Decisions. 

If the label on the bottle were to bear the words "Tincture of 
Opium." I reason that as this is a definite preparation, constituting a 
preparation of opium, and so definite as to its composition that to 
any intelligent person it expresses definitely all that it is desirable to 
express, the use of this title alone should be sufficient I fee! that as 
a preparation it is distinct from opium, and it this particular tinct- 
ture is used in the manufacture of a preparation the mention of it 
alone should be sufficient. 

Where extract or tincture of cannabis indica, or extract of opium, 
is employed in making other drug products, would it not be comply- 
ing with the law if the use of sucn articles be clearly indicated on the 
label as prescribed by the law, or is it necessary to give the actual 
amounts of the drugs themselves represented by these preparations? 

Names of drug products bearing any of Che names of the ingredients 
enumerated in the act are construed as representing "preparations" 
within the meaning of the act; and if the same are clearly declared 
upon the label as required by Regulations vf and 30,* it will not be 
necessary to give the actual amount of the primary drugs used or rep- 
resented by such article. It is desirable, however, that the word or 
words used in the law shall constitute the first part of the name of the 
product For example: "Opium, Tincture of;" "Cannabis Indica, 
Extract of," followed by the amount of tincture or extract used. 
Jaices Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, March 13, 1^7. 

(F. I. D. S6.) 

NAMES TO BE EMPLOYED IN DECLARING THE AMOUNT 
OF THE INGREDIENTS AS REQUIRED BY THE LAW. 

Many inquiries are coming to this Department relative to the names 
that may be employed in declaring the quantity or proportion of the 
ingredients, as required by Congress, 

The following are representative : 

The word "alcohol" has received so much unfavorable notoriety 
during the last few years that we hesitate to place it upon our labels. 
Could we not employ some other words in place of it, such a' ""' 
spirits," "spirits of wine," "pure grain alcohol," etc? 



One of our preparations contains trichlorethidcne ethyl alcoholate, 
which would undoubtedly under the law be considered a derivative of 
rfiloral hydrate. Will it be satisfactory for us to use this name on 
our trade packages in giving the amount of this chemical present in 
the product? 

In the manufacture of some of our products we use opium. It 
would, however, be a financial loss to state this fact on the label. 
Could we not say this preparation contains 20 grains of the concen- 
trated extract of the Palaver somniferum to the fluid ounce? 



,;h,COO}^IC 



Names to Be Used. 121 

Dover's powder is mentioned in the regulations as one of the prepara- 
tions of opium. It would seem sufficient at first glance that Dover's 
powder as a preparation, if mentioned on the label, would be ail that 
could be required as to opium. 

One of the objects of the law is to inform the consumer of the pres- 
ence of certain drugs in medicines, and the above terms do not give the 
average person any idea as to the presence or absence of such drugs. 
In enumerating the ingredients, the quantity or proportion of which b 
required to be given upon the principal label of any medicinal prepara- 
tion in which such ingredients may be present, the act uses only com- 
mon names, and the permission to use any but such common names 
for any ingredients required to be declared upon the label is neither 
expressed nor implied in any part of the law. 

The term used for acetanilide is "acetanilide" and not phenlyaceta- 
mide. No reference is made to the use of the chemical formula in 
designating the presence of chemicals. The words "chloral hydrate" 
appear in the act, but not the chemical name trichlorethidene glycol. 
It can readily be seen that if the act were not closely adhered to in this 
connection there would soon be such a confusion and multiplicity of 
names and phrases that one of the objects of the act would be defeated. 

The names to be employed in stating the quantity or proportion of 
the ingredients required by the act to appear on the label of atl medici- 
nal preparations containing same are — 

First Those used in the law for the articles enumerated; example, 
"alcohol," not "spiritus rectificatus." 

Second. In the case of derivatives: (a) The name of the parent 
substance used in the act should constitute part of the name; example, 
"chloral acetone," not "trichlorethidene dimethyl ketone." (b) The 
trade name, accompanied in parenthesis by the name of the present 
substance; example, "dionine (morphine derivative)," 

Third. Names of preparations containing the name of some ingre- 
dient used in the act. In such cases the name used in the act should 
constitute the first portion of the name of the preparation. (See F. 
I. D. 55-) 

Fourth. Common names (such as laudanum, Dover's powder, eta) 
of preparations containing an ingredient enumerated in the law, pro- 
vided such name or names are accompanied in parentheses I^ some 
such phrase as "preparation of opium" or "opium preparation," fol- 
lowed by the number of minims or grains, as specified in the regula- 
tions; for instance, "laudanum (preparation of opium), 40 minims 
per ounce." 

Jaues Wilson, 
Secretary of Apicullure. 
Washington, D. C, March 13, 1907. 



i by Google 



Food Inspection Decisions. 

(F. /. D. 5?-) 

PHYSIQANS' PRESCRIPTIONS. 



Packages resulting from the compounding of physicians' prescrip- 
tions under the food and drugs act are the subject of many queries, 
of which the following are representative; 

If a druggist compounds 3 physicians' prescription and sends it into 
an adjoining State, will it be necessary to state upon the label the 
amount of alcohol, morphine, etc., that may be present? 

Supposing a rwularly licensed practicing physician has patients lo- 
cated in various States of the Union and supplies medicines to them 
through the mails, by express, and otherwise, do such packages come 
under the provisions of the law, and, if so, can the required informa- 
tion be given in pen and ink on the label? 

We treat dru^ addictions on a very gradual tonic treatment reduc- 
tion plan. For instance, if John Doe writes for information as to the 
home treatment for his addiction, I send him a symptom blank which 
contains, among other questions, an inquiry as to the kind of drug 
he uses, how he uses it, the length of time he has used it, etc. In 
addition to giving me a complete history of his case, he states he is 
using 10 grains of sulph. of morphine (each twenty-four hours) , 
hjrpodennically or internally, as the case may be. In prescribing in 
his case I immediately put him on just one-half of the amount he 
reports as his daily allowance, combining same with a bitter tonic 

It is necessary for the reduction in drug cases to be made without 
the patient's knowledge. It is, of course, understood by all physicians 
that you can not trust a drug habitu^ to properly make bis own reduc- 
tions, for. as a matter of fact, if he knew to what extent I was reduc- 
ing his daily allowance of opiates, he would imagine the reduction 
too rapid, he would get frightened, and would take to his former drug 
for relief. Treatment prepared in this way I do not think would 
come under the head of a proprietary preparation or a patent medi- 
cine, as I prescribe the contents of each bottle to meet the require- 
ments of each individual patient. All instructions as to the conduct 
of treatment and the use of auxiliary remedies are given by letter; 
consequently there are no printed labels or cartons containing any 
claims concerning the efficacy of this treatment 

I would be pleased to have you inform me whether in your opinion 
I would be violating the pure-food law in any manner, shape, or form 
should I continue to label my preparations as I am now doing, and 

in having them prepared in and forwarded direct to my 

patients in this and other States. 

If a padcage compounded according to a physician's prescription be 
shipped, sent, or transported from any State or Territory or the Dis- 
trict of Columbia to another State or Territory or the District of 
Columbia by 3 compounder, druggist, physician, or their agents, l^ 
mail, express, freight, or otherwise, the label upon such package is 
required to bear the information called for by Congress. If, however, 
the patient himself, or a member of his household, or the physician 
himself carries such package across a State line, and such package 



i by Google 



Labeling. 1 23 

is not subject to sale, it is held that such package need not be marked 
so as to conform with the law, because such a transaction is not con- 
ddered one of interstate commerce. 

The package may be marked so as to comply with the act by either 
stamp, pen and ink, or typewriter, provided all such written matter is 
distinctly legible and on the principal label, as prescribed in Regula- 
tion 17." 

Jaues Wilson, 
Secretary of Agricitltwe. 

Washington, D. C, March 13, 1907. 

(F. I. D. 58.) 

THE LABELING OF PRODUCTS USED AS FOODS AND 

DRUGS AS WELL AS FOR TECHNICAL AND 

OTHER PURPOSES. 

Frequent requests for information relative to the proper labeling 
of products bearing the names of foods and drugs, hut used also for 
technical and other purposes, are received. The following are typical : 

We will kindly ask you to advise us in regard to the new law that 
:governs the line of oils. We manufacture a compound product, so- 
called "turpentine," which contains pure turpentine and a very fine 
petroleum product. It is used in most branches where pure turpen- 
tine is used, with the exception of medicinal purposes, for which we 
do not sell it. 

We understand that if we were to sell any cotton-seed oil so branded 
as to indicate that it was intended to be used as a food, as, for example, 
under the brand "Blank Salad Oil," it would be necessary to observe 
the requirements of the law referred to ; but we are in doubt and 
would be glad to have your opinion as to whether a sale or shipment 
of this oil (for lubricating purposes) under the ordinary trade brand 
of cotton-seed oil, and without anything to indicate that it was of a 
quality suitable for use as a salad oil, would subject us to the pro- 
visions of the act. 

During personal interviews the question of marking chemical re- 
agents has also been discussed. 

Products used in the arts and for technical purposes are not subject 
to the food and drugs act It is, however, a well -recognized fact that 
many articles are used indiscriminately for food, medicinal, and tech- 
nical purposes. It is also well known that some products employed 
for technical purposes are adulterated or misbranded within the mean- 
ing of this act. Inasmuch as it is impossible to follow such products 
into consumption in order to determine to what use they are finally 
put, it is desirable that an article sold under a name commonly applied 
to such article for food, drug, and technical purposes be so labeled as 
to avoid possible mistakes. The ordinary name of a pure and normal 
product, whether sold for food, drug, tedinical, or other purposes, is 
all that is necessary. Pure cotton-seed oil or turpentine may be sold 
without any restrictions whatever, whether such article is sold for 
food, medicinal, or technical purposes, but it is suggested that a cotton- 



"Pi** 90. 



i by Google 



124 Food Inspection Decisions. 

seed oil intended for lubricating purposes, or a so-called turpentine 
consisting of a mixture of turpentine and petroleum oils, used by the 
paint trade, be plainly marked so as to indicate that they are not to be 
employed for food or medicinal purposes. Such phrases as the follow- 
ing may be used: "Not for Food Purposes," "Not for Medicinal Use," 
or for "Technical Purposes Only," or "For Lubricating Purposes," etc. 
In order to avoid complication it is suggested that chemical reagents 
sold as such be marked with such phrases as the following: "For 
Analytical Purposes," or "Chemical Reagent," etc 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, March 13, 1907. 

(F. I. D. S9-) 
NATIONAL FORMULARY APPENDIX. 

The National Formulary is one of the standards recognized tmder 
the law. The question has been asked a number of times whether the 
appendix of this authority would be construed as part and parcel of 
the book itself. On page IV of the preface it is distinctly stated that 
the formulx collected in the appendix of the National Formulary are 
"no longer designated as 'N. F.' preparations," Tliis shows that these 
formuhe are not integral parts of the book imder the law, which covers 
only those products of the National Formulary recognized as such 
by this authority. By this it is understood that if a drug product is 
sold under a name contained in the appendix of the National Formu- 
lary, it will not be necessary for such product either to conform to the 
Standard indicated by the formula or to declare upon the label its 
own standard strength, quality, and purity if a different formula is 
employed in its manufacture. Such articles are, however, subject 
to the law in every other respect, as is the case of other medicinal 
products not recognized by the U. S. Pharmacopwia or National For- 
mulary. 

Jaubs Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, March 13, 1907. 

(F. /. D, 60,) 

MINOR BORDER IMPORTATIONS. 

Inquiry has frequently been made regarding the application of 
Regulation 33' (requiring a declaration to be attached to the invoice) 
to foods and drugs brought into the United States in small quantities 
by farmers living near the border. One correspondent says : 



i by Google 



Substitutes. 125 

like articles of food products of their own raising, and ottering the 
same for entry at the different offices on the frontier. • • • The 
main question is as to whether or not the affidavits and other proof 
required by the pure-food law shall be required in these instances of 
minor importations of this class of articles. 

Considering the nature of these importations it is held that Regulation 
33' does not apply to them and that they may be imported without 
the declaration. Such products are subject to inspection, however, 
and if found to be in violation of the law will be excluded. 

Jaues Wilson, 
Steretary of Agrieullurt. 
Waehingtoh, D, C, March ^5, igoj. 

(F. /. D. 61.) 

COCOA BUTTER SUBSTITUTES. 

A manufacturer writes; 

We use in the preparation of chocolate sticks a guaranteed pure 
production of cocoanut oil. May this product be sold merely as con- 
fectionery, and not as chocolate sticks? If not. would it be satis- 
factory for us to mark the product as "Chocolate sticks prepared with 
substitute butter?" 

Regulation 32 prohibits the sale, or offer for sale, in interstate or 
foreign commerce or in the District of Columbia or in any Territory 
of the United States, of a food or drug product which bears no label 
whatever if said product be an imitation of or offered for sale under 
the name of another article. It would clearly be a violation of the 
law to sell an article which was made in imitation of chocolate, even 
though it be sold under the general name of a confection. Such an 
article should be labeled in such manner as (o correctly represent its 

Regulation's (o)' provides: 

When a substance of a recognized quality conunonly used in the 

preparation of a food or drag product is replaced by antrther substance 
not injurious or deleterious to health, the name of the substituted 
substance shall appear upon the label. 



It is held that cocoa butter is the only fat that can properly be used 
in chocolate, llie declaration of foreign fats merely as "substitute 
butter" is apparently not sufEcient; the nature of the fat employed 
should be stated. 

Jauis Wilson, 
Secretary of Agricuiturt. 
Washington, D. C, March zs, 1907. 



i by Google 



126 Food Inspection Decisions. 

(F. I. D. 6i.) 

GUARANTY ON IMPORTED PRODUCTS. 

Many inquiries of the following type have been received by the 
Department : 

We will take it as a favor if you will advise us if (since our goods 
are all imported and so must pass the custom-house before being 
sold) the fact of their having passed the customs authorities and die 
Department of Agriculture examination is not in itself a guaranty that 
they conform with the pure-food laws as defined by the act of Con- 
gress approved June 30, 1906, entitled "An act for preventing the 
manufacture, sale or transportation of adulterated or misbranded or 
poisonous or deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, liquors." etc 

The Department makes a systematic inspection of imported foods 
and drugs when they arrive at the custom-houses; and while such 
inspection does not include an examination of samples taken from 
every package of the aforesaid articles, it is sufficient to indicate that 
the article is suitable to enter the country and be sent into interstate 
commerce as long as it retains its identity in the unbroken package. 
If imported foods and drugs are taken from the original packages 
and repacked, they become subject to inspection as if of domestic origin, 
and the persons handling and selling said articles are not immune 
from prosecution in the event that a subsequent inspection discloses 
that all or any portion of said foods or drugs are adulterated or mis- 
branded according to the provisions of said statute or the regulations 
made thereunder. 

Only a wholesaler, jobber, manufacturer, or other party residing 
in the United States can give a guaranty within the meaning of said 
act. A foreign manufacturer or other foreign dealer can not give the 
guaranty prescribed in said law, nor can the agent of such foreign 
manufacturer or dealer give said guaranty unless such agent be a 
resident of the United States and unless he actually sells the goods 
covered by the guaranty. 

The person who owns and sells imported goods can make a guar- 
anty for the purpose aforesaid, though the goods may be shipped 
directly by the firm of whom the guarantor buys them to the customer 
of the guarantor, 

JaUES WlLSOM, 
Secretary of Agriculttire. 
Washington, D. C, March 25, 11)07. 

(F. I. D. 63.) 

USE OF THE WORD "COMPOUND" IN NAMES OF DRUG 

PRODUCTS. 

Many inquiries are received concerning the use of the word "com- 
pound" in names of drug products. There seems to be a general 



i by Google 



Compound. 

impression that this word can be applied a 

branded products. The following extracts serve as examples; 

Vou have on file our formula (active agents — croton oil and cascara), 
and we would ask if it is possible to call the same "castor pill com- 
pound" and comply with the r^^lations. 

This liniment has been in use for forty years. The ingredients, eadi 
separately and collectively, are sanitary and highly curative. The one 
ingredient after which it was named happens to be present in the 
least proportion ; can not the compound be called by the name "Com- 
pound Sassafras Cream?" 

An eminent jurist writes: 

I shall be glad to know the views entertained by your Department 
as to when a druggist has satisfied this act by a label or print«l matter 
which he puts on the package or bottle in relation to a compound. 
Take, for example, the product put on the market as Cascarin Com- 

Kmnd, or Aloin Compound. I am impressed with the fact that sudi 
bel must have added a statement as to what the other ingredients of 
the compound are. This may not mean, and probably does not mean, 
that the formula must be given or the exact proportions, but a pur- 
chaser has the right to know what is in the compound in order to 
determine for himself, or to receive proper advice, as to whether it 
is safe to be used. 

In no case can a preparation be named after an ingredient or drug 
which is not present The word "compound" should not be used 
in connection with a name which in itself, or together with repre- 
sentations and designs accompanying same, would be construed as a 
form of misbranding under the acL 

It is held that if a mixture of drugs is named after one or more 
1)ut not all of the active medkinal constituents (not vehicle) present 
in a preparation, the word "compound" can be used in connection 
with the name, (a) provided the active constituent after which th^ 
product is named is present in an amount at least equal to that of any 
other active medicinal agent present Example: If it is desired to 
make a mixture consisting of oil of sandalwood, balsam copaiba, and 
castor oil, and call this product "Oil of Sandalwood Compound," the 
oil of sandalwood should constitute at least 33 1-3 per cent of the entire 
mixture. Or (6) provided the potent active constituent after which 
the product is named a present in suflicient amount to impart the 
predonde rating medicinal effect Example : If a product is named 
after the active constituent, strychnine, the strychnine or one of its 
salts should be present in suflicient amount to produce the preponder- 
ating medicinal effect of the preparation. Or (e) provided the com- 
plete quantitative formula, as outlined in the United States Pharma- 
copceia and National Formulary, be given on the principal label. A 
declaration of the complete quantitative fontiula, however, does not 
exempt the manufacturer or dealer from giving the information re- 
quired by the act in the manner prescribed by the regulations. The 



i by Google 



128 Food Inspection Decisi<Mis. 

ounce shall be the unit. The amounts of the ingredients present 
(excepting alcohol, which is to be stated in per cent) shall be given in 
grains or minims, and if it is desired the metric equivalent may be 
given in addition. 

James Wilsok, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washingtom, D. C, March ss, 1907. 

(P. I. D. 64.) 

LABELING OF SARDINES. 

Many inquiries have been made of this Department respecting the 
extent to which the term "sardine" can be used in food products 
entering into foreign or interstate commerce. The question of the 
proper labeling of fish of this kind was submitted by the Department 
to the Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. 
After reviewing the nomenclature and trade practices the Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor reached the following conclusion : 

Commercially the name sardine has come to signify any small, canned, 
clupeoid fish ; and the methods of preparation are so various that it is 
impossible to establish any absolute standard of quality. It appears to 
this Department that the purposes of the pure-food law will be carried 
out and the public fully protected if all sardines bear labels showing 
the place where produced and the nature of the ingredients used in 
preserving or flavoring die fish. 

In harmony with the c^inion of the experts of the Bureau of 
Fisheries, the Department of Agriculture holds that the term "sar- 
•dine" may be applied to any small fish described above, and that the 
name "sardine" should be accompanied with the name of the country 
or State in which the fish are taken and prepared, and with a 
statement of the nature of the ingredients used in preserving or 
flavoring the fish. 

It is held that a small fish of the clupeoid family, caught upon or 
near the shores of and packed in oil in Norway, or smoked and packed, 
in oil, is properly labeled with the phrase "Norwegian Sardines in 
Oil," or "Norwegian Smoked Sardines in Oil," the nature of the oil 
being designated. In like manner a small fish of the clupeoid family 
caught upon or near the shores of and packed in France may be 
called "French Sardines in Oii," the nature of the oil being specified. 
Following the same practice, a fish of the clupeoid family caught 
on or near the shores of and packed in the United States may be 
labeled "American Sardines Packed in Oil," or "Maine Sardines 
Packed in Oil," or be given some similar appellation, the nature of 
the oil being stated. It is suggested diat the name of the particular 



i by Google 



Whiskey Blends, Etc. 129 

fish to which the term sardine is to be ^phed should also be placed 
upon the label — for example, "Pilchard," "Herring," etc. 

Jaues Wilson, 
Secretary of Aerieultmre. 
WASHiNGioif, D. C. March 29, 1907. 

(F. /. D. 65.) 



The labeling of whisky, blends, compounds, and imitations thereof, 
under the food and drugs act of June 30, 1906, will be governed by 
the (pinion of the Attorney-General, dated April 10, 1907, bearing the 
approval of the President, published herewith. 

Jakes Wilson, 
Secrelary of AgricHllure. 
Washington, D. C, April a, 7907. 

Thb Whtte House, 
Washington, D, C., April 10, 1907. 
Mr DsAK Mk. Sbcketaby: 

In accordance with your suggestion, I have submitted the matter 
concerning the proper labeling of whisky under the pure-food law 
to the Department of Justice. I enclose the Attorney-General's opinion. 
I agree with this opinion and direct that action be taken in accord- 
ance with it. 
Straight whisky will be labeled as such. 

A mixture of two or more straight whiskies will be labeled "Blended 
irtibl^' or "whiskies." 

A mixture of straight whisky and ethyl alcohol, provided that tiiere 
is a sufficient amount of straight whisky to make it genuinely a "mix- 
ture," will be labeled as compound of, or compounded with, pure grain 
distillate. 
Imitation whisky will be labeled as such. 
Sincerely, yours, 

Treommx Roosevct. 
Hon. Jambs Wilson, _ ^. \ 

Secretary of Agriculture. 1 : - ' i 

OPINION OF THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL. ■* 

Apbil, 10, 1907. 
The President. 

Sib: In accordance with jrour instructions. I have examined the 
papers referred to me by you, at the suggestion of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and herewith submit you my <^inion on certain ques- 
tions which a^^ear from the said papers to have arisen in connection 
with the labeling or branding of different kinds of spirit, claimed by 



i by Google 



130 Food Inspection Decisions. 

their manufacturers or proprietors to be entitled to the name of 
"Whisky," with or without qualifying words. In addition to the papers 
referred to me by you, I have received and considered a number of 
odier papers submitted to me by various individuals, indudingr Messri. 
Hen^hill and Worthington and Mr. W. M. Hough, as counsel for 
certain distillers and rectifiers interested in the questions under con- 
sideration, and I have personally gadiered some further information 
which seemed to me material in view of the character of the questions 
involved. 

These questions have arisen in the construction of section Sf of the 
act approved June 30, 1906, entitled: 

"An act for preventing the manufacture, sale, or transportation of 
adulterated or misbranded or poisonous or deleterious foods, drugs, 
medicines, and liquors, and for regulating traffic therein, and for other 
purposes," 

and generally known as "The pure food law." The portion of that 
law bearing upon the points in dispute is section 8, which, so far as 
material, is as follows: 

Sec. 8.' That the term "misbranded," as used herein, shall apply 
to all druRS, or articles of food, or articles which enter into the com- 
position of food, the package or label of which shall bear any state- 
ment, design, or device regarding such article, or the ingredients or 
substances contained therein, whidi shall be false or misleading in any 
particular. ♦ * ♦ That for the purposes of this act an article 
shall also be deemed to be misbranded: ' • • In the case of food: 
First If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the distinctive 
name of another article. • • • Fourth. If the package containing 
it or its label shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding 
the ingredients or the substances contained therein, whiiji statement, 
design, or device shall be false or misleading in any particular: Pro- 
vided, That an article of food which does not contain any added 
poisonous or deleterious ingredients shall not be deemed to be adul- 
terated or misbranded in the following cases: 

First In the case of mixtures or compounds which may be now or 
from time to time hereafter, known as articles of food, under their 
own distinctive names, and not an imitation of or offered for sale under 
the distinctive name of another article, if the name be accompanied 
on the same label or brand with a statement of the place where said 
article has been manufactured or produced. 

Second. In the case of articles labeled, branded, or tagged, so as 
to plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations, or Uends, and 
the word "con^)ound," "imitation," or, "blend," as the case may be, is 
plainly stated on the package in which it is offered for sale: Provided, 
That the term blend as used herein shall be construed to mean a mix- 
ture of like substances, not excluding harmless coloring or flavoring 
ingredients used for the purpose of coloring and flavoring only: 
And provided farther. That nothing in this act shall be construed 
as requiring or compelling proprietors or manufacturers of proprietary 
foods whi<£ contain no unwholesome added ingedient to disclose their 

■P»B* 78. 



i by Google 



opinion of Attorney-General. 



Before stating or discussing the particular questions as to which you 
desire my opinion, I think it wiJl conduce to cleamHs to call attention 
to the general purpose of this act and to some considerations founded 
thereon. 

The primary punKise of the pure food law is to protect against fraud 
consumers of food or drugs; as an incidental or secondary purpose, 
it seeks to prevent, or, at least, discourage the use of deleterious sub- 
stances for either purpose; but its first aim is to insure, so far as 
possible, that the purchaser of an article of food or of a drug shall 
obtain nothing different from what he wishes and intends to buy. 
According to the recognixed canons of statutory construction, the 
language of its provisions must be interpreted with reference to and 
in harmony with this prirasuy general purpose; so that, in determining 
the proper nomenclature for articles of food as defined in the act, the 
intention of the law will be best observed by giving to such articles 
names readily understood and conveying definite and familiar ideas to 
the general public, although such names may be inaccurate in the 
view of a chemist or physicist or an expert in some particular indus- 
trial art, as in the distillation and refining of spirits. Moreover, the 
same name may be given by dealers or by the general public to two 
or more substances varying very materially in their scientific charac- 
teristics and this fact must be given due weight in passing upon ques- 
tions of branding or labeling under the law. 

Human experience has associated certain impressions on the senses 
of taste and smell with the consumption of certain articles of food, 
and the so-called "flavor" which expresses the resultant of these im- 
pressions constitutes a factor of decisive weight in determining the 
similarity or identity of substances of this character to the mind of 
the ordinary member of the community, quite irrespective of the rela- 
tive importance of these chemical or physical properties in the sub- 
stances which itiqurt this flavor as compared to their other chemical 
or physical properties. This fact is aptly illustrated by a question 
considered at much length in the papers referred and also submitted 
tome as above, namely: "What is Whisky?" A chemist or a distiller 
might answer this question altogether differoitly from the ordinary 
purchaser of whisky for his own consumption ; but the purchaser's 
view of the matter is material to attain the primary purpose of the 
pure food law; and I think it may be safely said that what he means 
by "whisky" when buying it is a distilled spirit, fit for use as a bever- 
age and having the particular flavor which human experience has 
classified as that of "Whisky." Undoubtedly the flavors of different 
kinds of spirits all known as "Whisky" differ considerably, and it 
may be that the general impression of their similarity is due, in some 
measure, to imagination or imperfect memory; nevertheless, a distinct 
and definite idea is suggested to the mind by the words "whisky 
flavor;" this idea is an essential factor in ascertaining the identity of 



ib.Googlc 



132 Food Inspection Decisions. 

a qiirit claimed to be whisky, and, in my opinion, it is the decisive 
factor in determining the relative weight of the claims of two or more 
kinds of spirit to the name. 

With this preliminary explanation, I proceed to state what I under- 
stand to b« the questions as to which my opinion is desired. In sub- 
stance, there are ; 

First. Under what circumstances should a distilled spirit be labeled 
or branded "Whisky" without any qualifying words? 

Second. Under what circumstances should a liquid be marked a 
"Blend of whiskies," or "Blended whisky," or "Blended whiskies?" 

Third. Under what circumstances should a liquid be marked 
as a "Compound of whisky," or "Compounded whisky," and what word 
or words, if any, must be added to such title to make the same appro- 
priate under the law? 

Fourth. Under what circumstances, if at all, could a distilled spirit, 
with additions of coloring and flavoring substances, be termed "Imita- 
tion whisky?" 

Before dealing directly with these questlcais, I think it may be well 
to indicate the application of this law to a class of liquids affording 
a field for its interpretation with less opportunity for dispute — I refer 
to wines. It will not be questioned that to be branded or labeled 
"Sherry," "Port" or "Madeira," a wine must have inherently, and not 
because any other substance is added to it, the flavor known as that 
of sherry, port or madeira, as the case may be. There are different 
kinds of each of these wines; experts can recognize different brands 
or vintages by their respective flavors, and these flavors vary con- 
siderably; nevertheless, there can be no doubt that the sherry, the 
port and the madeira flavors are distinct from each other, and that 
each of them has some quality of its own shared by all varieties of 
the same species of wine. 

There is, however, an evident distinction to be drawn between a 
wine such as sherry, port or madeira, and a wine such as champagne. 
In the view of a chemist or physicist, champagne would be doubt- 
less described as "a compound," for it consists essentially of a wine, 
of sugar and of an aerating gas, three substances obviously "unlike." 
The law, however, in my opinion, does not contemplate that an article 
should be marked as a "blend," "compound," or "imitation" unless its 
designation would be otherwise "false or misleading" to the consumer; 
and the name "Champagne" would indicate to any would-be purchaser, 
who was ordinarily intelligent and well-informed, a wine artificially 
sweetened and aerated, or, in other words, a composite substance. 

To determine the proper use of tiie term "Blend" we must first 
note that the definition of the word in the law is novel and arbitrary. 
It is thus defined by Webster: 

Blend, n. A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as colors, 
liquors, etc ; a shading or merging of one color, tint, etc., into another, 
BO that it can not be known where one ends or the other begins." 



i by Google 



opinion of Attorney-General 133 

There is nothing in this definition about "likeness" in the substances 
mingled; this feature is introduced for some special purpose in the law, 
and the latter must be interpreted so as to give effect to this purpose. 
To show this more clearly we may also note the same Dictionary's 
definition of "Confound." This is: 

"Compound, n. That which is compounded or formed b^ the union 
or mixture of elements, ingredients, or parts; a combination of sim- 
ples." 

"Compound" and "Blend" are substantially synonymous when ap- 
plied to mixtures of liquids in ordinary speech, but the Pure-Food Law 
establishes a distinction of its own between them based upon the charac- 
ter of the ingredients entering bto the mixture. In discussing there- 
fore what degree of "likeness" between the mingled substance* will 
jtistify their designation as a "filend" it must be always and care- 
fully remembered (i) that "Blend" is meant to be something essen- 
tially difiFerent from "Compound," and (a) that the subject under con- 
sideration is a name for an article of food to be embodied in a label 
or brand in harmony with the primary purpose of the law as above 
explained. Without going into metaphysical distinctions, or need- 
less e^Ianations, it is my opinion that effect will be most surely 
given to the evident intent of this provision of the law if it be held that 
"Blend," as a substantive, or "Blended," as an adjective, can be properly 
and legally used in brands or labels under the act of igo6 only when 
a stKgle tubttantive, either in the singular or in the plural, need follow 
to appropriately and adequately designate the combination; thus we 
can speak of a "Blend of Teas," or a "Blended Tea," but not of a 
"Blend of Tea and Coffte." To state the same proposition in different 
language, T think the two articles mixed must be capable of accurate 
and sufficient description by a single generic term; they must be sub- 
stances known by the same name, and that name must be sufficiently 
distinctive to afford reasonable warning to a purchaser. 

If, therefore, ffie question be what ought to be called "Blend of 
sherry," or "Blended sherry," or "Blended sherries," I think that 
such terms could be applied with propriety only to a mixture of two 
or more sherries, and not to a mixture of sherry with port or with 
madeira. This is not because "likeness" does not exist between the 
three kinds of wine mentioned, nor because great similarity may not 
be found in thnr chemical composition; it is quite possible that, in 
the latter reqiect, some kinds of sherry would be found to have a 
greater resemblance to some kinds of port than to other kinds of 
sherry; just as the chemical composition of a diamond might have 
much greater similarity to that of coal than to that of some other 
gems ; hut the term "Blended sherry" could not be appropriate to a 
mixture of sherry and port; it would mislead an intending purchaser 
as to the fact that port entered into the combination ; the latter might 
be named with equal propriety "Blended port." On the other hand. 



i by Google 



134 Food Inspection Decisions. 

if this mixture should be termed a "Blend of port and sherry," there 
is no distinction in generic designation, between a mirture of these two 
distinct wines and a mi:cture of two sherries or of two ports, and I 
think the law clearly intended there should be such a distinction. It 
might be, perh^s, consistent with the law to call such a mixture 
"Blended wines" but this title would be insufficiently specific; it 
might designate a mixture of burgundy and claret as well as one of 
port and sherry. In my opinion, it is tiie intent of the act of 1906 
that the term "Blended sherry," or "Blend of sherry," or "Blend of 
sherries" shall designate a mixture of two or more kinds of sherry; 
while the titles "Compound of port and sherrr" or "Compounded port 
and sherry" would appropriately designate a mixture of two unlike 
substances in the view of the law, namely, two distinct and dif- 
ferent kinds of wine; "unlike" just as diamonds and coal are "unlike" 
substances. 

It may be that by diluting neutral spirit (ethyl alcohol) with enougb 
distilled water to reduce it to the normal alcoholic strength of sherry 
wine, and, by adding appropriate flavoring and coloring substances, a 
mixture can be produced which tastes and smells and looks tike sherry, 
and when consumed produces substantially the same effects ; this mix- 
ture, siftposing it to contain no article deleterious to health, would 
be ai^rc^nately labeled or branded, under the law, "Imitation sherry." 
If it were mixed with real sherry, no one would for a moment claim 
that the two substances thus combined were sufBciently "like" to war- 
rant the description of the resultant as a "Blend ;" it could only be 
accurately labeled, under the law, as a "Compound of genuine and imi' 
tation sherries," a designation which would not probably promote its 

Applying the same principles to the choice of brands or labels for 
distilled spirits, and especially for whiskies, we are at once confronted 
by the question whether whiskey corresponds to a wine like sherry 
or to a wine like champagne; that is to say, whether it is a natural or 
artifidal spirit; meaning by the first term, of course, not that it 
exists anywhere as a product of nature, but that it is the resultant of 
the process of distillation alone, without needing any further addition 
to furnish its characteristic qualities. In the first case, it would be 
assimilated to brandy or rum; in the second contingency, to gin, since 
gin is essentially a distilled spirit, frequently as nearly neutral as may 
readily be, flavored by an infusion of juniper berries. I learn from 
&e papers referred to me that the Department of Agriculture has 
reached the conclusion diat whisky, like brandy and rum and unlike 
gin, is a natural spirit, its peculiar taste and aroma being imparted 
to it in the course of distillation and arising primarily from essential 
oils existing in the substances from which it may be distilled; that is 
to say, it corresponds to a wine like sherry and not to a wine like 
champagne. This conclusion seems to be fully warranted 1^ information 
contained in the papers before me and by such other information 



i by Google 



Opinion of Attorney-General. 135 

u I have been able to obtain; nevertheless, as hereinafter set forth, 
tiie statement may, perhaps, need some qnalification. or, rather, some 
explanation. It is doubtful, however, whether the definition of 
"Whisky" contained in the papers aforesaid, and which I understand 
to have received the approval of the Department of Agriculture, is 
quite broad enough to meet the general intent of the law of 1906. 
Thb definition I understand to be as follows : 

"Whisky is a distillate, at the required alcoholic strength, from the 
fermented mash of malted cereals, or from malt with unmalted cereals, 
and contains the congeneric substances formed with ethyl alcohol 
which are volatile at the ordinary temperatures of distillation, and 
which give the character to the distillate." 

In Webster's Dictionary "Whisky" is delired as: 

"An intoxicating liquor distilled from grain, potatoes, etc., especially 
in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States. In the United Slates, 
whisky is generally distilled from maize, rye, or wheat, but in Scot- 
land and Ireland is often made from malted barley." 

In Worcester's Dictionary it is defined as : 

"A kind of spirit distilled from barley, wheat, rye, maize, potatoes. 



In Chambers's Encycliqicdia of 1875, it is defined as follows : 

"A spirit made by distillation from gi 
materials, as buckwheat, potatoes and 

A large number of simitar definitions from standard popular works 
of reference might be given, and I think there can be no doubt that 
a spirit generally known and described as "Whisky" is often distilled 
from potatoes and occasionally from some other substances which could 
scarcely be correctly classed as cereals. I note this fact because it 
appears to me contrary to the ^irit and subversive of the purpose 
of the pure-food law to adopt a definition which would exclude from 
the name any substance generally understood by the public to be en- 
titled to it; that is to say, the nomenclature adopted to give eSect to 
the Act ou^t to be, in my opinion, popular and rot scientific. This 
matter, however, is of only subordinate importance in connection with 
the questions immediately under discussion. 

It being admitted that whisky is a natural spirit having certain 
"congeneric substances," which, in the language of the above definition 
•^ive the character to the distillate," it seems obvious that a mixture 
of two or more different whiskies as thus defined, whether their dif- 
ferences arise from the character of the substances from which they 
were distilled or from the method of distillation used in each case 
respectively, or even from their several ages and the environment in 
which they were kept subsequently to distillation, would be appro- 
priately termed a "Blend of whiskies," or "Blended whisky," or 
"Blended whiskies;" any one of these three terms would be appropriate. 



ly Google 



136 Food Inspection Decisions. 

provided that each article entering into the combination, standing 
alone, would be appropriately designated as "Whisky." 

The mixture of a ^irit properly designated as "Whisky" with another 
spirit which, standing alone, would not be properly designated as 
"Whisky," such as ethyl alcohol, must, in ray opinion, be labeled or 
branded as a "Compound," or as "Compounded." This question has 
given rise to a very animated dispute, and it is understood that great 
importance is attached by dealers to its determination, vhich is thought 
to involve serious pecuniary loss or gain to some or others among them. 
I have, therefore, considered it very carefully. In Chambers's En- 
cyclopedia, above quoted. Volume III, article "Distillation," occurs the 
following passage: 

"If only alcohol and water passed over in distillation, all spirits, 
from whatever extracted, would be the same; but this is not the case. 
Brandy, which is distilled from wine, has a peculiar essential oil 
derived from the grape and also some acid; rum is impregnated with 
an essential oil from the sugar cane, and with other impurities; malt 
liquor has the essential oil 01 barley, etc. It is these essential oils that 
give to the various spirits their distinguishing flavors. Some of die 
oils and other impurities are disagreeable and positively noxious, and 
it is one of the objects of rectifying to remove these. The mellowing 
effects of age upon spirits is owmg to the evaporation, or spontaneous 
decomposition of ttie essential oils. Newly distilled spirits are, in 
general, fiery and q»ecta]ly unwholesome." 

This statement from a popular work seems to be fully sustained by 
works of greater scientific authority and shows, in my opinion, that, 
for the purposes of the pure-food law, neutral ^irit or ethyl alcohol, 
if absolutely pure, would be, not only like, but actually identical, 
whether it were derived from fruit, from cereals, from sugar cane, or 
from any other of the many substances which can fumbh alcohol. In- 
asmuch as a state of absolute purity can not be attained by any treat- 
ment appropriate for commercial purposes, it may be, perhaps, more 
nearly accurate to say that each of these different kinds of neutral 
spirit is a like substance to one of any other kind; but, if we con- 
cede that ethyl alcohol is a "like substance" to whisky, then we must 
abo concede that brandy and rum are "like substances" to whisky also, 
because each of tbem, on precisely the same grounds, can be likened 
to neutral spirit It is undoubtedly true that only a very small pro- 
portion (less than the half of i per cenlum) of the ingredients entering 
into whisky are different from those entering into neutral ^irit; but 
this is equally true of brandy and rum, and it is precisely those sub- 
stances which "give the character to the distillate" in each of these 

In the nature of things there can have been, as yet, no judicial de- 
cisions as to the meaning of the terms used in the pure-food law, but 
section 3287 of the United States Revised Statutes, as amended in 
1879, 1880 and 1890, has been cited to me to show the "likeness" of 
whisky and neutral spirit as matter of law; I find, however, nothing 



i by Google 



opinion of Attoraey-General, 137 

in that section at all relevant to the present discussion. It requires the 
cask to indicate "the partitnilar name of such distilled spirits as known 
to the trade, that is to say, high winet, alcohol or spirits, as the case 
may be." It is undoubtedly true that in distillation under the improved 
methods of modeni times a neutral spirit may be produced at a later 
stage of the process out of something which at an ea.rlier stage of the 
process was crude whisky or so-called "high wines ;" but this no more 
shows neutral spirit to be a "like substance" to whisky than vinegar is 
a "like substance" to cider or to wine, or that beef is a "like sub- 
stance" to veal. 

My attention has been likewise called to the case of Taylor Com- 
pany vt. Taylor in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky (85 S. W. R., 
lofe) as establishing the propriety of designating a mixture of whisky 
and ethyl alcohol as "a blend" or "blended." In this case it was de- 
termined that the selling of whisky mixed with neutral spirit under a 
I^kI which might lead the uninitiated to suppose that it was a 
"strai^t whisky" was a fraud upon the public as well as upon the 
manufacturer of the "straight" article. In its opinion the court says: 

"The defendant may properly sell his brand of 'Old Kentucky Tay- 
lor,' provided he so frames his advertisements as to show that it is 
a blended whiskey; but he can not be allowed to impose upon the 
public a cheaper article and thus dei>rive appellant of the fruits of bis 
energy and expenditures by selling his blended whiskey under labels or 
advertisements which conceal the true character of the article, for this 
would destroy the value of the appellant's trade." 

This decision was rendered on March i?, 1905, more than a year be- 
fore the approval of the pure-food law; in speaking of a mixture of 
whisky and neutral spirit as "blended whisky," the court had not, of 
course, in mind the definition of "Blend" in that law, which, as above 
noted, is altogether novel and arbitrary; on the other hand, the decision 
may have been considered by the Congress when it framed the pure- 
food law; and the special and original definition of "Blend" given in 
that law, may have been intended for the very purpose of making more 
difficult such frauds as the Court of Appeals in Kentucky condemned in 
this case. 

I conclude, therefore, that according to the true intent of the pure- 
food law, a mixture of whisky with neutral spirit must be deemed a 
"Compound" and not a "Blend," althousfi the spirit may be a distillate 
from the same substance used to furnish the whisky, and that such a 
mixture stands on the same footing- as a mixture of whisky and brandy 
or of whisky and rum. 

The definition of "Whisky" as a natural spirit involves as its 
corollary that there can be such a thing as "Imitation whisky." If 
the same process were followed of which we spoke in connection with 
artificial wine, namely, if ethyl alcohol, either pure or mixed with 
distilled water, were given, t^ the addition of harmless coloring and 
flavoring substances, the appearance and flavor of whisky, it is impos- 



i by Google 



13S Food Inspection Decisions. 

sible to find any other name for tiie product, in conformity with the 
pure-food law, than "Imitation whisky." 

An interesting question remains, the question, in any opinion, of 
greatest difficulty connected with the subject; namely, whether a 
mixture of a liquid such as has just been described, or, indeed, a mix- 
ture of ethyl alcohol itself with whisky ought to be labeled "Whisky" 
at alL When the words "Compound" or "Compounded" are used 
in the act, it is, in my judgment, ordinarily necessary, that two sub- 
stances, at least, should be mentioned as entering into the combination 
described; in other words, it would not be accurate to call a mixture 
of port and sherry "Compounded sherry" or "Compounded port;" such 
a mixture must be designated as "Sherry compounded with port" or 
"Port compounded with sherry" or "Compound of port and sherry." 
As above stated, this would be, to say the least, no less true if an 
imitation sherry were used to mix with a genuine sherry, and, at first 
sight, it would seem that the same reasoning would deny the name 
"Whisky" to a compound of "straight" whisky and ethyl alcohol whether 
with or without coloring and flavoring substances. There is, how- 
ever, a distinction between the two cases, and it is not universtiUy 
true that tuio substantives must follow "Compound" or "Con^iounded," 
although it is true, in my opinion, that only one substantive can appro- 
priately follow "Blend" or "Blended." 

In the first place, we may note that the "Imitaticm sherry" described 
above would not be a wine at all, while ethyl alcohol is clearly a 
spirit; this distinction, however, is not essential. But, so far as I 
loiow, no practice exists in the wine trade of mixing port with sherry 
or genuine with artificial sherry and calling the mixture by the name 
of either one of its ingredients. On the other hand, there is and haa 
been for a long time in existence a well-known practice of mixing 
ethyl alcohol with whisky to give the latter an artificial age and thus 
produce the so-called "mellowness" of old whisky, which is caused by 
the gradual and partial evaporation of the essential oils contained in 
new whisky; and it seems to be a long and well established custom 
in the trade to call the mixture of whisky and alcohol thus produced 
"Blended whisky," For the reasons above set forth, I think the law 
has forbidden the use of the adjective, but it is otherwise with the 

In the Encyclf^sedia Britannica of 1878, Vol. VII, under the head 
"Distillation," there is the following statement: 

'Tlat bottomed and fire heated stills are considered the best for the 
distillation of malt spirit, as by them the flavor is preserved. Coffey's 
still, on the other hand, is the best for the distillation of grain spirit, 
as by it a spirit is obtained almost entirely destitute of flavor and of 
a strength varying from 55 to 70 over proof. Spirit produced of thb 
hi^ strength evaporates at such a low temperature that scarcely any 
of the volatile oils on which the peculiar flavor of ^irits depends 
are evaporated with it, hence the reason why it is not adi^ed for 
the distillation of malt whiskey which requires a certain amount of 



i by Google 



opinion of Attorney-General. 139 

these oils to give it its requisite flavor. The spirit produced tnr Coffey's 
■till is, therefore, chiefly used for making gin and factitious brandy bj 
the rectifiers, or for being mixed vnth mall whiskies by the v/holesalr 
deaiert." 

The practice therein described has become during the past twenty- 
eight years much more general than it then was, in the United States' 
as well as in Great Britain, and improvements in the art of distillation 
have rendered it much easier and more profitable. 

As above explained, I consider "Champagne" a suitable label or 
brand for the composite wine known by that name. I! a natural 
wine existed which was sweet and sparkling and also generally known 
as "Champagne," a mixture of the two might be, I think, appropriately 
called "Compound" or "Compounded champagne," and, in accordance 
with this analogy, I conclude that a combination of whisky with ethyl 
alcohol, supposing, of course, that there is enousfi whisky in it by 
make it a real compound and not the mere semblance of one, may be 
fairly called, "Whisky;" provided the name is accompanied by the word 
"Compound" or "Compounded," and provided a statement of the 
presence of another spirit is included in substance in the title. I am 
strengthened in this conclusion by understanding from the papers- 
you have referred to me that it has been reached by the Department 
of Agriculture as well 

The following seem to me appropriate specimen brands or labels for 
(i) "straight" whisky, (2) a mixture of two or more "straight^ 
whiskies, (3) a mixture of "straight" whisky and ethyl alcohol, and 
(4) ethyl alcohol flavored and colored so as to taste, smell, and look 
like whisky: 

(i) Semper Idem Whisky: A pure, straight whisky mellowed 
by age. 

(3) E Pluribus Unum Whisky: A blend of pure, straight whiskies 
with all the merits of each. 

(3) Modem Improved Whisky: A compound of pure grain dis- 
tillates, mellow and free from harmful impurities. 

(4) Something Better than Whisky: An imitation under the pure- 
food law, free from fusel oil and other impurities. 

In the third specimen it is assumed that both the whisky and the 
alcohol are distilled from grain. 
I remain, sir, yours very reqiectfully and truly, 

Chaslks J. BONAPAm, 
A ttoT%ey-Gentral. 



i by Google 



ibyGoogle 



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, 

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.— Cireulir No. 19. 



STANDARDS OF PURin FOR FOOD PRODUCTS. 

Sapencdlns Grculan Noi. tj uid if. 

Supplemental Proclamation. 



Referring to Circular No. 13 of this OfBce, dated December M, 
1904, and to Circular No. 17 of this Office, dated March 8; 1901^ the 
following food standards are hereby established is superseding and 
supplemental to those proclaimed on the dates above named. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agric%ilure. 

Washington, D. C, June s6, 1906. 

LETTER OF SUBMITTAL. 

The Honorable Ac SECKRAsy of AcucnLTniE. 

Sir: The undersigned, representing the Association of OfScial Agri- 
cultural Chemists of the United States and the Interstate Food Com- 
mission, and commissioned by you, under authority given by the act 
of Congress approved Uarch 3, 1903, to collaborate with you "\o 
establish standards of purity for food products and to determine what 
are regarded as adulterations therein," respectfully report that they 
have carefully reviewed, in the light of recent investigations and cor- 
respondence, the standards earlier recommended by them and have 
prepared a set of amended schedules, in which certain changes have 
been introduced for the purpose of securing increased accuracy of 
e:cpre9sion and a more perfect correspondence of the chemical limit) 
to the normal materials designated, and from which standards previ- 
ously proclaimed for several manufactured articles have been omitted 
because of tiie unsatisfactory condition of trade nomenclature as 
vplied thereto; and also additional schedules of standards for ice 
creams, vegetables and vegetable products, tea and coffee. They 
respectfully recommend that the standards herewith submitted be 



i by Google 



«43 Food Standards. 

approved and proclauned as the established stuidards, supersedinc >nd 
supplementing those established on December 20, 1904, and Mardi 8^ 
1006. 

The principles that have guided us in the formnlation of these 
standards are appended hereto. 

The several schedules of additional standards recommended have 
l>een submitted, in a tentative form, to the manufacturtag finni and 
the trade immediately interested, and also to the State food-control 
ofi&dals for criticism. 

Respectfully, 

WiLLiAif Freak, 
Edwakd H. Jehkins, 
M. A. ScovBU, 
H. A. Weber, 
H. W. Wiley, 
Committee on Food Standards, 
Astoeiation of OfRdal Agrieiiitwal Chemists. 

Richard Fischer, 
Repretenting the Inttrttatt Food Commission, 
Washington, D. C, }nne 26, 1906. 

PRINCIPLES ON WHICH THE STANDARDS ARE BASED. 



1. The standards are expressed in the form of definitions, with or 
-without accompanying specilications of limit in composition. 

2. The main classes of food articles are defined Wore the subor- 
dinate classes are considered. 

3. The definitions are so framed as to exclude from the articles 
-defined substances not included in the definitions. 

4. The definitions include, where possible, those qualities which 
make the articles described wholesome for human food. 

5. A term defined in any of the several schedules has tiie same 
meaning wherever else it is used in this report 

6. Ttie names of food products herein defined usually agree widi 
.existing American trade or manufacturing usage; but where such 
usage IS not clearly established or where trade names confuse two or 
more articles for which specific designations are desirable, prefer- 
-ence is given to one of the several trade names applied. 

7. Standards are based upon data representing materials produced 
under American conditions and manufactured by American processes 
or representing such varieties of foreign articles as are chiefly im- 
ported for American use. 

8. The standards fixed are such that a departure of the articles 
to which they apply, above the maximum or below the minimum limit 
prescribed, is evidence that such articles are of inferior or abnormal 
^quality. 

g. The limits fixed as standard are not necessarily the extremes 
authentically recorded for the article in question, because such extremes 
are commonly due to abnormal conditions of production and are usually 
accompanied by marks of inferiority or abnormality readily perceived 
:by the producer or manufacturer. 



ibvGooglc 



Animal Products. 143 

FOOD STANDARDS. 
/. ANIMAL PRODUCTS. ' 

A. MuTS AKD THE PaisatAL MsAT Pkoducis. 
a. muTS. 

1. Meal, fifth, is any clean, sound, dressed, and prtqierly prepared 
edible part of animals in good health at the time ofsUi^ter, and if 
it bears a name descriptive of its kind, composition, or origin, it corre- 
^xmds thereto. The term "animals," as herein us»l, includes not only 
mammals, but fish, fowl, crustaceans, mollusks, and all other antmdb 
used as food. 

2. Fresh meat is meat from animals recently slaughtered and properly 
cooled until delivered to the consumer. 

3. Cold storage meat is meat from animals recently slaughtered and 
preserved by refrigeration until delivered to the consumer. 

4. Sailed, pickled, and smoked meals are unmixed meats preserved 
by salt, sugar, vine^r, spices, or smoke, singly or in combinatioti, 
whether tn Mtlk or m suitable containers. 

b. M ANUPACTUKZD HEATS. 

I. Matiufactured meats are meats not Included in paragraphs 2, 3, 
and ^ whether simple or mixed, whole or comminuted, in bulk or 
in suitable containers, with or without the addition of salt, sugar, 
vine^r, spices, smoke, oils, or rendered fat If they bear names 
descriptive of kind, composition, or origin, they correspond thereto 
and when bearing such descriptive names, if force or flavoring meats 
are used, the kind and quantity thereof are made known. 

C. HEAT EXTKACTS, HEAT PEPTONES, ETC. 

(Schedule in prqiaralion.) 



I. Lt^d is the rendered fresh fat from hogs in good health at the 
time of slaughter, is clean, free from rancidity, and contains, neces- 
sarily incorporated in the process of rendering, not more than one (l) 
per cent of substances, other than faty acids and fat. 

3. Leaf lard is lard rendered at moderately high temperatures from 
the internal fat of the abdomen of the hog, excluding that adherent to 
the intestines, and has an iodin number not greater than sixty (60}. 

3. Neutral lard is lard rendered at low ten^eratures. 

B. Milk and Its PatwiJCTs. 



I. Milk is the fresh, clean, lacteal secretion obtained by the complete 
milking of one or more healthy cows, properly fed and kept, exclud- 
ing that obtained within fifteen days before and ten days after calving, 
and contains not less than eight and one-half (8.5) per cent of sotlds 
not fat, and not less than three and one-quarter (3.35) per cent of 
milk fat 

a. Blended milk is milk modified in its composition so as to have a 
definite and stated percentage of one or more of its constituents. 

J. Skim milk is milk from which a part or all of the cream has been 



ibvGooglc 



144 Food Standards. 

removed and containg not less than nine and one-quarter (9.25) per 
cent of milk solids. 

/L Paiteurigtd milk is milk that bas been heated below boiling but 
sufficiently to kill most of the active organiams present and immedi- 
Mely cooled to 50° Fahr. or lower. 

^. Sterilited milk is milk that has been heated at the temperature of 
boiling water or hi^er for a length of time sufficient to kill all organ- 
isms present 

ti. Condensed milk, evaporated mUk, is milk from which a consider- 
able portion of water has been evaporated and contains not less than 
twenty-eight (38) per cent of milk solids of which not less than twenty- 
seven and five-tenths (27.5) per cent is milk fat 

7. Sweetened condensed milk is milk from which a considerable por- 
tion of water has been evaporated and to which sugar (sucrose) has 
been added, and contains not less than twenty-eight (28) per cent of 
milk solids, of which not less than twenty-seven and five-tenths (27.5) 
per cent is milk fat 

_ 8. Condensed skim milk is skim milk from which a considerable por- 
tion of water has been evaporated. 

g. Butttrmilk is the product that remains when butter is removed 
from milk or cream in the process of churning. 

la Goafs milk, ew^s tntU, et cetera, are the fresh, clean lacteal 
secretions, free from colostrum, obtained hy the complete milking of 
healthy animals other than cows, properly fed and kept, and conionn 
in name to the species of animal from which they are obtained. 

b. CREAK. 

1. Cream is that portion of milk, rich in milk fat, which rises to the 
surface of milk on standing, or is separated from it by centrifugal 
force, is fresh and clean and contains not less than eighteen (18) per 
cent of milk fat. 

2. Evaporated cream, clotted cream, is cream from which a consid- 
erable portion of water has been evaporated. 

C. KILK FAT OB. BlnTES FAT. 

I. MUk fat, butter fat, is the fat of milk and has a Reichert-Meissl 
number not less than twenty-four (24) and a specific gravity not less 

1. Butter is the clean, non-rancid product made by gathering in any 
manner the fat of fresh or ripened milk or cream mto a mass, which 
also contains a small portion of the other milk constituents, with or 
without salt, and contains not less than ei^ty-two and nve-tenths 
(82.5) per cent of milk fat By acts of Congress approved August 3, 
1S86, and May g, 1902, butter may also contam added coloring matter. 

2. Renovated butter, process butter, is the product made by melting 
butter and reworking, without the addition or use of chemicals or 
any substances except milk, cream, or salt, and contains not more than 
sixteen (16) per cent of water and at least e«hty-two and five-tenths 
(83.5) per cent of milk fat 



I. Cheese it the sound, solid, and ripened product made from milk or 
:reain by coagulating the casein thereof with rennet or lactic add, 



i by Google 



Vegetable Products. 145 

with or without the addition of ripening ferments and seasoning, and 
contains, in the water-free substance, not less thpn fifty (50) per cent 
of mitk fat. By act of Congress, approved June 6, 1896, cheese may 
also contain added coloring matter. . 

2. Skim mitk cheese is the sound, solid, and ripened product, made 
from skim milk by coagulating the casein thereof with rennet or lactic 
acid, with or without £e addition of ripening ferments and seasoning. 

3. Goafs milk cheese, ewe's milk cheese, el cetera, are the sound, 
ripened products made from the milks of the animals specified, by 
coagulating the casein thereof with rennet or lactic acid, with or with- 
out the addition of ripening ferments and seasoning. 

f. ICE CREAU. 

I. Ice cream is a frozen product made from cream and sugar, with 
or without a natural flavoring, and contains not less than fourteen (14) 
per cent of milk fat 

3. Fntil ice cream is a frozen product made from cream, sugar, and 
sound, clean, mature fruits, and contains not less than twelve (12) per 
cent of milk fat. 

3. Nut ice cream is a frozen product made from cream, sugar, and 
sound, non-rancid nuts, and contains not less than twelve (12) per cent 
of milk fat. 

g. MISCKLUNEOUS MlUC FBODUCTS. 

I. Whey is the product remaining after the removal of fat and casein 
from milk in the process of cheese-making. 

3. Kmniss is the product made by die alcoholic fermentation of 
mare's or cow's milk. 

//. VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. 

A. Grain Pkoducts. ; 

a. GKAINS AMD HEALS. 

I. Grain is the fully matured, clean, sound, air-dry seed of wheat, 
maize, rice, oats, rye, buckwheat, barley, sorghum, millet, or spelt. 
3. Meal is the clean, sound product made by grinding ^ain. 

3. Flour is the fine, clean, sound product made by bolting wheat meal 
and contains not more than thirteen and one-half (13.5) per cent of 
moisture, not less than one and twenty-five hundreddis (1.25) per cent 
of nitrogen, not more than one (i) per cent of ash, and not more than 
fifty hundredths (ajo) per cent of fiber. 

4. Graham Hour is unbolted wheat meal. 

5. Gluten Hour is the dean, sound product made from flour by the 
removal of starch and contains not less than five and six-tenths (5.6) 
per cent of nitrogen and not more than ten (10} per cent of moisture. 

6. Matte meat, ccm meal, Indian corn meal, is meal made from sound 
maize grain and contains not more than fourteen (14) per cent of 
moisture, not less than one and twelve hundredths (1.12) per cent oC 
nitrogen, and not more than one and six-tenths (1.6) per cent of ash. 

7. Rice is the hulled, or hulled and polished grain of Ory*a saliva. 
& Oatmeai is meal made from hulled oats and contains not more 

than twelve (12) per cent of moisture, not more than one and five- 
Tenths fi.s) per cent of crude fiber, not less than two and twenty-four 
hundredths (2.24) per cent of nitrogen, and not more than two and 
two-tenths (2.3} per cent of ash. 



i by Google 



146 Food Standards. 

9. Ryt AouT is the fine, clean, sound product made by bolting rye 
meal and contains not more than thirteen and one-half {13.5) per cent 
of moisEure, not less than one and thirty-six hundredths (1.36) per cent 
of nitrogen, and not more than one and twenty-five hundredths (1.25) 
per cent of ash. 

la Bvckwheat Sour is bolted buckwheat meal and contains not more 
dian twelve (la) per cent of moisture, not less than one and twenty- 
eight hundredths (1.2S} per cent of nitrogen, and not more than one 
and seventy-five hundreddis (1.75) per cent of ash. 
B. Fruit and Vegetables. 

a. FRurr and fbuit psoducts. 
(Except fruit juices, fresh, sweet, and fermented, and vinegars.) 

1. Fruits are the dean, sound, edible, fleshy fructifications of plants, 
distinguished b^ their sweet, acid, and ethereal flavors. 

2. Dried frmt is the clean, sound product made by drying mature, 
prc^erly prepared, fresh fruit in such a way as to take Up no harmful 
substance, and conforms in name to the fruit used in its preparation; 
tun-dried fruit is dried fruit made by drying without the use of arti- 
ficial means ; evaporated fruit is dried fruit made by drying with the 
use of artificial means. 

3. Evaporated apples arc evaporated fruit made from peeled and 
cored apples, and contain not more than twenty-seven (27) per cent of 
moisture determined by the usual commercial method of drying for 
four (4) hours at the temperature of boiling water. 

(Standards for other dried fruits are in preparation.) 

4. Canned fruit is the sound product made by sterilizing clean, sound, 
properly matured and prepared fresh fruit, by heating, with or without 
sugar (sucrose) and spices, and keeping in suitable, clean, hermetically 
sealed containers and conforms in name to the fruit used in its prep- 

5- Preserve is the sound product made from dean, sound, properly 
matured and prepared fresh fruit and su^r (sucrose) sirup, with or 
without spices or vinegar, and conforms m name to that 01 the fruit 
used, and in its preparation not less than forty-five (45) pounds of 
fruit are used to each fifty-five (55) pounds of sugar. 

6. Honey preserve is preserve in which honey is used in place of 
sugar (sucrose) sirup. 

7. Glucose preserve is preserve in which a glucose product is used 
in place of sugar (sucrose) sirup. 

8. Jam, tnarmeUade; is Uie sound product made from dean, sound, 
properly matured and prepared fresh fniit and sugar (sucrose), with 
or without spices or vinegar, by boiling to a pulpy or semisolid con- 
sistence, and conforms in name to the fruit used, and in its prepara- 
tion not less than for^-five (45) pounds of fruit are used to eadi 
fifty-five (SS) pounds of sugar. 

9. Glucose jam, glucose martnohde is jam in which a glucose prod- 
act is used in place of sugar (sucrose). 

10. Fruit butter is the sound product made from fruit juice and 
dean, soimd, prc^erly matured and prepared fruit, evaporated to a semi- 
solid mass 01 homogeneous consistence, with or without the addition 
of sugar and spiixs or vinegar, and conforms in name to the fruit used 
in its preparation. 

11. Glucose fruit butter is fruit butter in which a glucose product a 
used in place of sugar (sucrose). 

13. Jelly is the sound, semisolid, gelatinous product made by boil- 



i by Google 



Sugar and Related Substances. 147 

tag clean, sound, properly matured and prepared fresh fruit with water, 
concentratinR the expressed and strained juice, to which sugar (sucrose) 
is added, and conforms in name to the fruit used in its preparation. 

13. Glucose jelly is jelly in which a glucose product is used in place 
of sugar (sucrose). 

b. VEtSTABLSS AND VSGEIABLE PKC»UCTS. 

1. VegelabUs are the succulent, clean, sound, edible parts of herba' 
ceous plants used for culinary purposes. 

2. Dried vegetables are the clean, sound products made by drying 
properly matured and prepared vegetables in such a way as to take up 
no harmful substance, and conform in name to the vegetables used in 
their pr^aration; sun-dried vegetables are dried vegetables made by 
drying without the use of artificial means; evaporated vegetables are 
dned vegetables made by drying with the use of artificial means. 

3. Canned vegetables are sound, properly matured and prepared fresh 
vegetables, with or without salt, sterilized by heat, with or without pre- 
vious cooking in vessels from which they take up no metallic sub- 
Stance, kept in suitable, clean, hermetically sealed containers, are sound 
and conform in name to the vegetables used in their preparation. 

4. Pickles are clean, sound, immature cucumbers, prt^ierly prepared, 
without taking up any metallic compound other than salt, and preserved 
in any kind of viu^ar, with or without spices; pickled onions, pickled 
beets, pickled beans, and other pickled vegetables are vegetables pre- 
pared as described above, and conform in name to the v^etables used. 

fi. Salt pickles are clean, sound, immature cucumbers, preserved in a 
ution of common salt, with or without spices. 

6. Snreet pickles are pickled cucumbers or other vegetables in the 
preparation of which sugar (sucrose) is used. 

7. Sauerkraut is clean, sound, properly prepared cabbage, mixed with 
.salt, and subjected to fermentation, 

8. Catchup {ketchup, catsup) is the clean, sound product made from 
the properly prepared pulp of clean, sound, fresh, ripe tomatoes, with 
spices and with or without sugar and vinegar; mushroom catchup, vial- 
nut catchup, et cetera, are catchups made as above described, and con- 
form in tiame to the substances used in their preparation. 

C. SUGASS AMD RZLAIZD SUBSTANCES. 

a. siJGAK AND strcAK namjcti. 

I. Sugar is the product chemically known as sucrose (saccharose) 
chiefly obtained from sugar cane, sugar beets, sorghum, maple, and 
palm. 

3. Granulated, loaf, cut, milled, and powdered sugars are different 
forms of sugar and contain at least ninety-nine and five-tenth (99.5) 

3. Maple sugar is the solid product resulting from the evaporation of 
maple sap, and contains, in the water-free substance, not less than 
sixty-five one-hundredths (o£s) per cent of maple sugar ash. 

4. Massecuite, melada, mush sugar, and concrete are products made 



t^ evaporating the purified juice of a sugar-producing plant, or a solu- 
tion of sugar, to a solid or semisolid cc — "' — ■* ■- —'-—'- '*•- 

sugar chiefly exists in a crystalline state. 



) a solid or semisolid consistence, and in which the 



HOLASSES AND REFINERS SIRUP. 



ibvGooglc 



148 Food Standards. 

twenty-five (as) per cent of water and not more than five (5) per 
cent of ash. 

2. Refiners' sirup, treacle, is the residual liquid prodnct obtained in 
the process of refining raw sugars and contains not more than twenty- 
five (25) per cent of water and not more than eight (8) per cent of 
ash. 



1. Simp is the sound product made by purifying and ev^»orating the 
juice <^ a sugar-producing plant without removing any of the sugar. 

2. SugoT'Cane sirup is sirup made bv the evaporation of the juice 
of the sugar-cane or by the solution of sugar-cane concrete, and con- 
tains not more than thirty (30) per cent of water and not more than 
two and five-tenths (2.5) per cent of ash. 

3. Sorghum sirup 15 sirup made by the evaporation of sorghum juice 
or by the solution of sorghum concrete, and contains not more than 
thirty (30) per cent of water and not more than two and five-tenths 
(2.5) per cent of ash. 

4- Maple sirup is sirup made by the evaporation of maple sap or by 
the solution of m^k concrete, and contains not more than thir^-two 
(33) per cent of water and not less than forty-five hundredths (0.45) 
per cent of maple sirup ash. 

5. Sugar sirup is the product made by dissolving sugar to the con- 
sistence of a sirup and contains not more than thirty-Uve (35) per cent 
' of water. 

b. GLUCOSK FRODUCTE, 

I. Slarck sugar is the solid product made by hydrolyzing starch or a 
starch-containii^ substance until the greater part of die starch is 
converted into dextrose. Starch sugar appears in commerce in two 
forms, anhydrous starch sugar and hydrous starch sugar. The former, 
crystallized without water of crystallisation, contains not less than 
ninety-five (95) per cent of dextrose and not more than eight-tenths 
(0.8) per cent of ash. The latter, crystallized with water of crystalliza- 
tion, is of two varieties — 70 sugar, also known as brewers' sugar, con- 
tains not less than seventy (70) per cent of dextrose and not more 
than ei^t-tenths (a8) per cent of ash; 80 sugar, climax or acme sugar, 
contains not less than ei^ty (80) per cent of dextrose and not more 
than one and one-half (1.5) per cent of ash. 

The ash of all these products consists almost entirely of chlorids and 
sulphates. 

z. Glucose, mixing glucose, confectioner's glucose, is a thick, sirupy, 
colorless product made by incompletely hydrolyzing starch, or a starch- 
containing substance, and decolorizing and evaporating the product It 
varies in density from forty-one (41) to forty-five {45} degrees Baumi 
at a temperature of 100° Fahr. (37.7° C), and conforms in density, 
within these limits, to the degree Baume it is claimed to show, and for a 
density of forty-one (41) degrees Baumi contains not more than 
twenty-one (21) per cent and for a density of forty-five (45) degrees 
not more than fourteen {14) per cent of water. It contains on a basis 
of forty-one (41) degrees Baume not more than one (i) per cent of 
ash, consisting diiefly of chlorids and sulphates. 



ibvGooglc 



fillii^ materials and contains no terra alba, barytes, talc, chrome yellow, 
or <wier mineral substances, or poisonous colors or flavors, or other 
iofredients deleterious or detrimental to health, or any vinous, malt, or 
spirituous liquor or compoimd, or narcotic drug. 

d. HONEY. 

I. Honey is the nectar and saccharine exudations of plants gathered, 
modified, and stored in the comb by honey bees {Apis meUMca and A. 
dortala) ; is laevo-rotatory, contains not more than twenty-five (25) per 
cent of water, not more than twenty-five hundredths (0.35} per cent of 
arfi, and not more than eight (8) per cent of sucrose. 

3. Comb hcmey is honey contained in the cells of comb. 

3. Extracted honey is honey which has been separated from the un- 
crushed comb by centrifugal force or gravity. 

4. Stramed honey is honey removed from the crushed comb by strain- 
ing or other means. 

D. Condiments (except Vinecak and Salt). 



1. Spieet are aromatic vegetable substances used for the seasoning 
of food and from which no portion of any volatile oil or otber flavoring 
principle has been removed and which are clean, sound, and true to 

2. Allspice, pimento, is the dried fruit of the Pimenta pimenta (.h.) 
Karst, and contains not less than dgbt (8) per cent of qiiercitannic 
add ;■ not more than six (6) per cent of total ash, not more than five- 
tenths (0.5) per cent of ash insoluble in hydrodiloric acid, and not 
more than twenty-five (35) per cent of crude fiber. 

3. Aniie is the fruit of the Pimpinella onintm L. 

4. Bay leaf is the dried leaf of Laurut nobilis L. 

5. Capers are the flower buds of Capparis Spinosa L. 
0. Caraway is the fruit of Camm carvi L. 

CAVKMNB AND lED PCPPEKS. 

7. Red pepper is tlie red, dried, ripe fruit of any species of Capsicum. 

8. Cayenne pepper, cayenne, is the dried ripe fruit of Capsicum fru- 
tetcens L., Capsicum baccatum L., or some other small-fruited species 
of Catiicum, and contains not less than fifteen (15) per cent of non- 
TOtatile ether extract; not more than six and five-tenths (6.5) per cent 
of total ash; not more than five-tenths (0.5) per cent of ash insoluble 
in hydrochloric acid; not more than one and five-tenths (1.5) per cent 
of starch, and not more than twenty-ei^t (a8) per cent of crude fiber. 

9. Paprika is the dried ripe fruit of Capsicum annuum L., or some 
Other large-fmited species of Capsicum, excluding seeds and stems. 

10. Celery seed is the dried fruit of Apium ^aveolens L. 

11. Cinnamon is the dried bark of any species of the genus Cinna- 
momum from which the outer layers may or may not have been re- 
moved. 

la. True cinnamon is the dried inner bark of Cinnamomum seylani- 

13. Cassia is' the dried bark of various s^ies of Cinnamomum, other 
than Cinnamomum leylanieum, from which the outer layers may or 
may not have been removed. 

■ Cakulated fron the totil osticd abaorbcd br the ■qoccnu cxtricL 



ibyGoogle 



150 Food Standards. 

14. Cassia buds are the dried immature fruit of species of Cinnamo- 

15. Ground cintMmon, ground cassia, is a powder consisting of cinna- 
mon, cassia, or cassia buds, or a mixture of these spices, and contains 
not more than six (6) per cent of total asH and not more than two 
(3) per cent of sand. 

16. Cloves are the dried flower buds of Caryophyllus aromaticus L., 
which contain not more than five (5) per cent of clove stems; not less 
than ten (10) per cent of volatile ether extract; not less than twelve 
(12) per cent of quercitannic acid^; not more than eight (8) per cent 
of total ash ; not more than five-tenths (0.5) per cent of ash insoluble 
in hydrochloric acid, and not roore than ten (10) per cent of crude fiber, 

17. Coriander is the dried fruit of Coriandrum sativum L. 

18. Cumin seed is the fruit of CtiminwM cyminum L. 

19. Dill seed is the fruit of Auetkum graveolens L. 

aa Fennel is the fruit of Foeuiculutn foenicttlum (L.) Karst 
31. Ginger is the washed and dried or decorticated and dried rhizome 
of Zingiber zingiber (L.) Karst., and contains not less than forty-two 
(42) per cent of starch; not more than eight (8) per cent of crude 
fiber, not more than six (6) per cent of total ash, not more than one 
(i) per cent of lime, and not more than three (3) per cent of ash 
insoluble in h]>droch]oric acid. 

22. Limed ginger, bleached ginger, is whole ginger coated witii car- 
bonate of lime and contains not more than ten (10) per cent of ash, 
not more than four (4) per cent of carbonate of lime, and conforms in 
other respects to the standard for ginger. 

23. Horse-radish is the root of Roripa armoracta (L.) Hitchcock, 
either by itself or ground and mixed with vin^ar. 

24. Mace is the dried arillus of Myristica fragrans Houttuyn, and 
contains not less than twenty (zo) nor more than thirty (30) per cent 
of nonvolatile ether extract, not more than three (3) per cent of total 
ash, and not more than five-tenths (0.5) per cent of ash insoluble in 
hydrochloric acid, and not more than ten (10) ^r cent of crude fiber. 

25. Macassar mace, Papua mace, is the dried arillus of Myristica 
argentea Warb. 

26. Bombay mace is the dried arillus of Myristica malabarica La- 

27. Marjoram is the leaf, flower and branch of Majorana majorana 
(L.) Karst 

28. Mustard seed is the seed of Sinapis alba L. (white mustard), 
Brassica nigra (L.) Kodi (blade mustard), or Brassica juncea (L.) 
Cosson (black or brown mustard). 

ag. Ground mustard is a powder made from mustard seed, with or 
without the removal of the hulls and a portion of the fixed oil, and con- 
tains not more than two and five-tenths (2.5) per cent of starch and 
not more than eight (8) per cent of total ash. 

30. Prepared mustard, German mustard, French mustard, mustard 
paste, is a paste composed of a mixture of ground mustard seed or 
mustard flour with salt, spices and vinegar, and, calculated free from 
water, fat and salt, contains not more than twenty-four (24) per cent 
of carbohydrates, calculated as starch, determined according to the 
official methods, not more than twelve (12) per cent of crude liber nor 
less than thirty-five (35) per cent of protein, derived solely from tiie 
materials named. 

ji. Nutmeg is the dried seed of the Myristica fragrans Houttuyn, de- 
pnved of its testa, with or without a diin coating of lime, and con- 

■ CilcDlitcd from the tot*) oxygen abaorbed bjr Ihe aqaeoug extrsct. 



,',Google 



Flavoring Extracts. 151 

tains not less than twenty-five (25) per cent of nonvolatile ether ex- 
tract, not more than live (5) per cent of total ash, not more than five- 
tenths (0.5) per cent of ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid, and not 
more than ten (10) per cent of crude fiber. 

32. Macassar nutmeg, Papua nutmeg, male nutmeg, long nutmeg, is 
the dried seed of Myrisltca argentea Warb. deprived of its testa. 



33. Black pepper is the dried immature berry of Piper nigrum L. and 
contains not less than six (6) per cent of nonvolatile ether extract, not 
less than twenty-five {25) per cent of starch, not more than seven (7) 
per cent of total ash, not more than two (2) per cent of ash insoluble 
in hydrochloric acid, and not more than fifteen (15) per cent of crude 
fiber. One hundred parts of the nonvolatile ether extract contain not 
less than three and one-quarter (3-25) parts of nitrogen. Ground 
black pepper is the product made by grinding the entire berry and con- 
tains the several parts of the berry in their normal proportions. 

34, Lonp pepper is flie dried fruit of Piper longum L. 

3^. fVhtte pepper is the dried mature berry of Piper nigrum L. from 
which the outer coating or the outer and inner coatings have been 
removed and contains not less than six (6) per cent of nonvolatile ether 
extract, not less than fifty (50) per cent of starch, not more than four 
(4) per cent of total ash, not more than five-tenths (0.5) per cent of 
ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid, and not more than five (5) per cent 
of crude fiber. One hundred parts of the nonvolatile ether extract con- 
tain not less than four (4) parts of nitrogen. 

36; Saffron is the dried stigma of Crocus sativus L. 

37. Sage is the leaf of Sahta officinalis L. 

38. Savory, summer savory, is the leaf, blossom, and branch of Sat- 
ureja hortensis l~ 

3^. Thyme is the leaf and tip of blooming branches of Thymus vul- 

b. FLwcxma extracts. 

1. A flavoring extract* is a solution in ethyl alcohol of projwr strength 
of the sapid and odorous principles derived from an aromatic plant, or 
parts of the plant, with or without its coloring matter, and conforms in 
name to the plant used in its preparation. 

2. Almond extract is the flavorm^ extract prepared from oil of bitter 
almonds, free from hydrocyanic acid, and contains not less than one 
(i) per cent by volume of oil of bitter almonds. 

2a. Oil of bitter almonds, commercial, is the volatile oil obtained 
from the seed of the bitter almond (Amygdolus commwtis L.), the 
apricot (Prunus armeniaca L,), or the peach (Amygdalus perstca L.). 

3. Anise extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of anise, 
and contains not less than three (,1) per cent by volume of oil of anise. 

38. Oil of anise is the volatile oil obtained from the anise seed. 

4. Celery seed extract is the flavoring extract prepared from celery 
seed or the oil of celery seed, or both, and contains not less than three- 
tenths (0.3) per cent by volume of oil of celery seed. 

4a. Oil of celery seed is the volatile oil obtained from celery seed. 

5. Cassia extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of cassia 
._! '..^ ^gj i^j^ jjjjj^ j^j^ f^^ p^^ ^^^^ j^ volume of oil of cassia. 



e iKml 



ibvGooglc 



' 152 Food Standards. 

5a. Oil of eattia is the lead-free volatile oil obtained from the leaves 
or bark of Ciimamommn casna Bl., and contains not less than seventy- 
6ve (7p) per cent by wei^t of cinnamic aldehyde, 

amon exlrofl is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
I, and contains not less than two (a) per cent by volume of 

6a. Oil of cinnamon is the lead-tree volatile oil obtained from the 
bark of the Ceylon cinnamon (Cinnamomum leylanicum Breyne), and 
contains not less than sixty-five (6s) per cent by weight of cinnamic 
aldehyde and not more than ten (10) per cent by weight of eugenol. 

7. .Clove extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of cloves, 
ami tontains not less than two (2) per cent by volume of oil of cloves. 

7a. Oil of cloves is the lead-free, volatile oil obtained from cloves. 

8. Ginger extract is the flavoring extract prepared from ginger and 
contains in each one hundred (too) cubic centimeters, the alcohol- 
soltible matters from not less than twenty (20) grams of ginger. 

9. Lemon extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of lemon, 
or from lemon peel, or both, and contains not less than five (5) per 
cent by volume pf oil of lemon. 

ga. Oil of lemon is the volatile oil obtained, by expression or alco- 
holic solution, from the fresh peel of the lemon (_Citrus limontim L.}, 
has an optical rotation (25* C.) of not less than -f&>° in a loo-mJIIi- 
meter tube, and contains not less than four (4) per cent by weight of 

10. Terpentiets extract af lemon is the flavoring extract prepared t^ 
shaldnK oil of lemon with dilute alcohol, or by dissolving tetpeneless 
oil of lemon in dilute alcohol, and contains not less than two-tenths 
(0.2) per cent by weicht of citral derived from oil of lemon. 

100. TerpeneUss oU of lemon is oil of lemon from which alt or 
nearly all of the terpenes have been removed. 

11. Nutmtg extract is the flavoring extract prqtared from oil of 
nutmeg, and contains not less than two (3) per cent by volume of 
oil of nutmeg. 

iia. Oil of nutmeg is the volatile oil obtained from nutmegs. 

12. Orange extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of or- 
ange, or from orange peel, or both, and contains not less than five (5) 
per cent by volume of oil of orange. 

12a. Oil of orange is the volatile oil obtained, by expression or alco- 
holic solution, from the fresh peel of the orange (Citrut aurantium L.) 
and has an optical rotation (25* C.) of not less than -|-95° in a loo- 
tnillimeter tube. 

13. Terpenelets extract of orange is the flavoring extract prepared by 
shuing oil of orange with dilute alcohol, or by dissolving terpenelesa 
oil of orange in dilute alcohol, and corresponds in flavoring strength 
to orange extract 

13a. Terpeneleu oil of orange is oil of orange from which all or 
nearly all of the terpenes have been removed. 

14. Peppermint extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
peppermint, or from peppermint, or both, and contains not less than 
three (3) per cent by volume of oil of peppermint. 

14a. Peppermint is the leaves and flowering tops of Mentha piper- 
ihiL. 

146. Oil of peppermint is the volatile oil obtained from peppermint 
and contains not less than fifty (50) per cent by weight of menthol. 

15. Rose extract is the flaroring extract prepared trom otto of roses. 



i by Google 



Flavoring Extracts. 153 

with or without red rose petals, and contains not less than four-tenth> 
(04) per cent by voltune of otto of rosea. 

150. Olio of met is the volatile oil obtained from the petals of Rota 
damatcena Mill., R., centifoUa, L., or R. motchala Herrm. 

i6i Savory extract is the flavoring extract prniared from oil of 
tavoTj, or from savory, or both, and contains not less than thirty-five 
hundredths (ojS) per cent by volume of oil of savory. 

l6a. Oil of fovory is the volatile oil obtained from savory. 

17. Spearmint extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
■peamunt, or from ^earmint, or both, and contains not less than 
ttrec (3) per cent by volume of oil of spearmint 

170. Spearmint is the leaves and flowering tops of Mentha tpicata L. 
17b. OH of speammt is the volatile oil obtained from spearmint 

18. Star anise extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
star anise, and contains not less than three (3) per cent by volume of 
oil of star anise. 

18a. Oil of tlor attite is the volatile oil distilled from the fruit of the 
star anise Ullicivm ventm Hook). 

19. Stveet batil extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
sweet basil, or from sweet basil, or both, and contains not less than 
one-tenth (0.1) per cent by volume of oil of sweet basil. 

190. Sweet basit, basil, is the leaves and tops of Ocymtim batiHcum L. 

igb. Oil of tweet batil is the volatile oil obtained from basil. 

ao. Sweet marjoram extract, marjoram extract, is the flavoring ex- 
tract prepared from the oil of marjoram, or from marjoram, or both, 
■nd contains not less Aan one (i) per cent by volume of oil of mar- 
joram. 

300. Oil of marjoram is the volatile oil obtained from marjoram. 

31. Thyme extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of thyme, 
or from thyme, or both, and contains not less than two-tenths (OJl) 
per cent I^ volume of oil of di^e. 

aid. Oil of thyme is the volatile oil obtained from thyme. 

33. Tonka extract is die flavoring extract prepared from tonka bean, 
with or without sugar or ghcerin, and contams not less than one-tenth 
(ai) per cent by weight of coumarin extracted from the tonka bean, 
together with a corresponding proportion of the other soluble matters 

33a. Tonka bean is the seed of Coumaroitna odorata Aublet {Dip' 
teryx odorata (Aubl.) Willd.). 

33. VawUa extract is the flavoring extract prepared from vanilla 
bean, with or without sugar or i^ycerin, and contains in one hundred 

iloo) cubic centimeters the soluble matters from not less than ten 
to) grams of the vanilla bean. 

330. Vanilla bea» is the dried, cured fruit of Vanilla planifolia An- 
drews. 

34. fVitilergrten extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
wintergreen, and contains not less than three (3} per cent by volume 
of oil of winterifreen. 

24d. Oil of wtntergreeH is the volatile oil distilled from the leaves 
of the Gaultheria procumbent L. 

C. BDIBUt VIGITABU OILS AHD VATS. 

I. Olive oil is the oil obtained from the sotmd, mature fruit of the 
cultivated olive tree (Olea furopoea L.) and subjected to the usual 
refining processes; is free from rancidity; has a refractive index 
(35* C) not less than one and forty-six htmdred and sixty ten-thou- 
landths (1.4G60) and not exceeding one and forty-six hundred and 



i by Google 



154 Food Standards. 

eighty ten-thousandths (14680) ; and an iodin number not less diam 
seventy-nine {79) and not exceeding ninety (90). 

2. Virgin olive oil is olive oil obtained from the first pressing of 
carefully selected, hand^icked olives. 

3. Cottonseed oil is the oil obtained from the seeds of cotton planta- 
{GOMypivm hirtutvm L., G. barhadense L., or G. herbaceum L.) and 
subjected to the usual refining processes; is free from rancidity; has a 
refractive index (25° C.) not less than one and forty-seven hundred 
ten-thousandths (14700) and not exceeding one and forty-seven hun- 
dred and twenty-five ten-thousandths (1.4725) ; and an iodin number 
not less than one hundred and four (104) and not exceeding one hun- 
dred and ten (no). 

4. "IVinUr-ytllouf cotton-seed oil is expressed cotton-seed oil from 
which a portion of the stearin has been separated by chilling and pres- 
sure, and has an iodin number not less than one hundred and ten (no) 
and not exceeding one hundred and sixteen (116). 

5. Peantit oil, arachij oil, tartknut oil, is the oil obtained from the 
peanut (Araehis kypogaa L.) and subjected to the usual refining; 
processes; is free from rancidity; has a refractive index (25' C) not 
less than one and forty-six hundred and ninety ten-thousandths 
(14690) and not exceeding one and forty-seven hundred and seven 
ten-thousandths (14707); and an iodin number not less than eighty- 
aeven {Sj) and not exceeding one hundred (100). 

6. "Cold'drawn" peanut oil is peanut oil obtained by pressure with- 
out heating. 

7. Sesame oil, gineili oil, teel oil, is the oil obtained from the seeds 
of the sesame plants iSesamam erientale L, and 5. radialvm Sdium. 
and Thonn.) and subjected to the usual refininr processes; is free front 
rancidity; has a refractive index (25° C) not less than one and forty- 
seven hundred and four ten-thousandths (14704) and not exceeding 
one and forty-seven hundred and seventeen ten-thousandths (14717), 
and an iodin number not less than one hundred and three (103) and 
not exceeding one hundred and twelve (112). 

8. "Cold~draum" sesame oil is sesame oil obtained by pressure with- 
out heating. 

St. Poppy-seed oil is the oil obtained from the seed of the pcOTy 
(Pafaver somniferum h.) subjected to the usual refining processes and 
free from rancidity. 

la IVhite poppy-seed oil, or "cold-drawn" poppy-seed oil is poppy- 
seed oil of the first pressing without heating. 

II. Coconut oH is the oil obtained from the kernels of die coconut 
(Cocos Hiteifera L.) and subjected to the usual refining processes and 
free from rancidity. 

13. Cochin oil is coconut oil pr^iared in Cochin (Malabar). 

13. Ceylon oil is coconut oil prepared in Ceylon. 

14. Copra oil is coconut oil prepared from copra, the dried kernels 
of the coconut 

15. Rape-teed oil, colto oil, is the oil obtained from the seeds of 
the rape plant (Brassica napus L.) and subjected to the usual refining 
processes and free from rancidity. 

16. "Cold-drawn" rape-seed oil is rape-seed oil obtained by the first 
pressing without heating. 

17. Sunflower oil is the oil obtained from the seeds of the sunflower 
(Helianthus annuus L.) and subjected to the usual refining processes 
and free from rancidity. 

18. ' Cold-drawn" svnSower oil is sunflower oil obtained by the first 
pressinc without heatins;. 

19. Matte oil, corn oil, is the oil obtained from the germ of the 



i by Google 



Tea, Coffee and Cocoa. 155 

maize (Zea mays L.) and subjected to the usual refining processes and 
free from rancidity. 

30. Cocoa butter, cacao butler, is the fat obtained from roasted, 
sound cocoa beans, and subjected to the usual reBniiig processes; is 
free from rancidity; has a refractive index (40' C) not less than one 
and forty-five hundred and sixty-six ten-thousandtlis (1.4566) and not 
exceeding one and forty-five hundred and ninety-eight ten-thousandths 
(1.4596), an iodin number not less than thirty-Uiree (33) and not ex- 
ceeding thirty-eight (38) ; and a melting point not lower than 30° C. 
nor higher than 35° C. 

ai. ColloHseed oit stearin is the solid product inade by chilling cot- 
ton-seed oil and separating the solid portion by filtration, with or with- 
out pressure, and having an iodin number not less than eighty-five (85) 
and not more than one hundred (100). 

£. Tka, CoFFn, AND Cocoa Pboducts. 



I. Tea is the leaves and leaf buds of different species of Thea, pre- 
pared by the usual trade processes of fermenting, drying, and firing; 
meets the provisions of the act of Congress approved March 2, 189?, 
and the regulations made in conformity therewith (Treasury Depart- 
ment Circular 16, February 6, 1905) ; conforms in variety and place of 
production to the name it bears; and contains not less than four (4) 
nor more than seven (7) per cent of ash. 

b. Ct^FBE. 

I. Coifee is the seed of Coffea arabica L. or Coffea Itberica Bull., 
freed from all but a small portion of its spermoderm, and conforms in 
varie^ and place of production to the name it bears. 

3. Roasted coifee is coffee which by the action of heat has become- 
brown and developed its characteristic aroma, and contains not less 
than ten (10) per cent of fat and not less than three (3) per cent of 



C. COCOA AND COCOA P«»UCTS. 

1. Cocoa beans are the seeds of the cacao tree, Theobroma cacao L. 

2. Cocoa nibs, cracked cocoa, is the roasted, broken cocoa bean freed 
from its shell or husk. 

3. Chocolate, plain chocolate, bitter chocolate, chocolate liquor, bitter 
chocolate coatings, is the solid or plastic mass obtained by grinding 
cocoa nibs without the removal of fat or other constituents except the 
^rm, and contains not more than three (3) per cent of ash insoluble 
m water, three and fifty-hundredths (3.50) per cent of crude fiber, and 
nine (g) per cent of starch, and not less than forty-five (45) per cent 
of cocoa fat. 

4. Sweet chocolate, sweet chocolate coatings, is chocolate mixed with 
sugar (sucrose), with or without the addition of cocoa butter, spices, or 
other flavoring materials, and contains in the sugar-and fat-free residue 
no higher percentage of either ash, fiber, or starch than is found in the 
sugar- and fat-free residue of chocolate. 

5. Cocoa, powdered cocoa, is cocoa nibs, with or without the germ, 
dqtrived of a portion of its fat and finely pulverized, and contains per- 
centages of ash, crude fiber, and starch corresponding to those in 
chocolate after correction for fat removed. 



i by Google 



156 Food Standards. 

6. Sweet cocoa, nueelcned cocoa, is cocoa mixed with sugar (su- 
crose), and contains not more than sixty (60) per cent of sugar 
(sucrose), and in the sugar- and fat-free residue no higher percentage 
of either ash, crude fiber, or starch than is found in the sugar- and 
fat-free residue of chocolate. 

F. BzV^tAGES. 

a. nturr juices — fkesb, swett, and FmuEHTED. 

I. FItKSB AND 3. SWEET. 

(Schedules in preparation.) 

3. yERMENTED FSUIT JUICES. 

I. tVme is the product made by the normal alcoholic fermentation of 
the juice of sound, ripe grapes, and the usual cellar treatment, and con- 
tains not less than seven (?) nor more than sixteen (16) per cent of 
alcohol, by volume, and, in one hundred (lOo) cubic centimeters (20' 
C), not more than one-tenth (o.i) gram of sodium chlorid nor more 
than two-tenths (0.3) gram of potassium sulphate; and for red wine 
not more than fourteen hundredths (0.14) gram, and for white wine 
not more than twelve hundredths C0.12) gram of volatile acids pro- 
duced by fermentation and calculated as acetic acid. Red wine is wine 
containing the red coloring matter of the skins of grapes. While wine 
is wine made from white grapes or the expressed fresh juice of other 
grapes. 

3. Dry wine is wine in which the fermentation of the sugars b prac- 
tically complete and which contains, in one hundred (100) cubic centi- 
meters (20 C), less than one (i) gram of sugars and for dry red 
wine not less than sixteen hundredths (0.16) gram of grape ash and 
not less than one and six-tenths (1.6) grams of sugar-free grape 
solids, and for dry white wine not less than thirteen hundredths (0.13) 
gram of grape ash and not less than one and four-tenths (14) grams 
of sugar-free grape solids. 

3. ForliHed dry wine is dry wine to which brandy has been added 
but which conforms in all other particulars to the standard of dry wine. 

4. Sxoeel wine is wine in which the alcoholic fermentation has been 
arrested, and which contains, in one hundred (loo) cubic centimeters 
(30° C), not less than one (i) gram of sugars, and for sweet red wine 
not less than sixteen hundredths (0.16) gram of grape ash, and for 
sweet white wine not less than thirteen hundred^ (0.13) gram of 
grape ash. 

5. FortiAed sweet wine is sweet wine to which wine spirits have been 
added. By act of Congress, "sweet wine" used for making fortified 
sweet wine and "wine spirits" used for such fortification arc defined as 
follows (sccJ 43, Act of October i, 1890, 26 Stat, 567, as amended Iqr 
section 68, Act of August 37, 1^4, 28 Stat., 509, and further amended 
by Act of Congress approved June 7. 1906) : "That the wine spirits 
mentioned in section 42 of this act is the product resulting from the 
distillation of fermented grape juice to which water may have been 
added i>rior to, during, or after fermentation, for the sole purpose of 
facilitating the fermentation and economical distillation thereof, and 
shall be held to include the products from grapes or their residues, com- 
monly known as grape brandy ; and the pure sweet wine, which may 
be fortified free of tajc, as provided in said section, is fermented grape 

t' nice only, and shall contain no other substance whatever introduced 
efore, af the time of, or after fermentation, except as herein expressly 



i by Google 



Beverages. 157 

provided; and sach sweet wine shall contain not less than four per 
centum of saccharine matter, which saccharine strength may be deter- 
mined by testing with Balling's saccharometer or must scale, such sweet 
wine, after the evaporation of the spirits contained therein, and restor- 
ing the sample tested to original volume by addition of water : Provided, 
That the addition of pure boiled or condensed grape must or pure 
crystallized cane or beet sugar or pure anhydrous sugar to the pure 
grape juice aforesaid, or the fermented product of such grape juice 
prior to the fortification provided by this Act for the sole purpose of 
perfecting sweet wine according to commercial standard, or the addi- 
tion of water in such quantities only as may be necessary in the me- 
chanical cperation of grape conveyers, crushers, and pipes leading to 
fermenting tanks, shall not be excluded by the definition of pure sweet 
wine aforesaid: Provided, however. That the cane or beet sugar, or 
pure anhydrous sugar, or water, so used shall not in either case be in 
excess often (lo) per centum of the weight of the wine to be fortified 
under this Act: And provided further. That the addition of water 
herein authorized shall be under such regulations and limitations as the 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the ^proval of the Secretary 
of the Treasury, may from time to time prescribe ; but in no case shall 
such wines to which water has been added be eligible for fortification 
under the provisions of this Act where the same, after fermentation and 
before fortification, have an alcoholic strength of less than five per 
centum of their volume." 

6. Sparkling wine is wine in which the after part of the fermentation 
is completed in the bottle, the sediment being disgorged and its place 
supplied b^ wine or sugar liquor, and which contains, in one hundred 

iioo) cubic centimeters (20 C), not less than twelve hundredths 
0.13) gram of ^ape ash. 

7. UodiHtd wine, ameliorated wine, corrected wine, is the product 
made by the alcoholic fermentation, with the usual cellar treatment, of 
a mixture of the juice of sound, ripe grapes with sugar (sucrose), or a 
airup containing not less than sixty-five (65) per cent of sugar (su- 
crose), and in quantity not more than enough to raise the alcoholic 
strength after fermentation, to eleven (11) per cent by volume. 

8. Kaitin wine is the product made by the alcoholic fermentation of 
an infusion of dried or evaporated grapes, or of a mixture of such 
infusion or of raisins with grape juice. 

b. HEAD, BOOT BEEB, ETC. 

(Schedule in preparation.) 

C HALT UQUCSS. 

(Schedule in preparation.) 

d. SnUTUOUS UQUCMS. 

(Schedule in preparatioa) 

e. CASBONATtD WATBXS, ETC 

(Schedule in preparation.) 

G. VuriGAK. 

I. Vintgar, eider vinegar, apple vinegar, is the product made by the 
alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations of the juice of apples, 
is laevo- rotatory, and contains not less than four (4) grams of acetic 
acid, not less than one and six-tenths (1.6) grams of apple solids, of 



i by Google 



158 Food Standards. 

which not more than fiftjr (50) p«r cent are reducing sugars, and not 
less than twen^-five hundredths (aas) gram of apple ash in one hun- 
dred (100) cubic centimeters (20" C) ; and the water-soluble ash from 
<Kie hundred (lOO) cubic centimeters (ao" C) of the vinegar contains 
not less than ten (lo) milligrams of phosphoric acid (PiOi), and re- 
quires not less than thirty (30) cubic centimeters of decinormal acid to 
neutralize its alkalinity. 

2. IVine vittegar, grape viitfgtr, is the product made by the alcoholic 
and subsequent acetous fermentations of the juice of grapes and con- 
tains, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters (ao° C.), not less than 
four (4) grams of acetic acid, not less than one (1.0) gram of grape 
solids, and not less than thirteen hundredths (o.ij) gram of grape asn. 

3. Malt vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent 
acetous fermentations, without distillation, of an infusion of barley 
malt or cereals whose starch has been converted by malt, is dextro- 
rotatory, and contains, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters (ao* 
C). not less than four (4) grams of acetic acid, not less than two (a) 
grams of solids, and not less than two-tenths (0,2) gram of ash 1 and 
^e water-soluble ash from one hundred (loo) cubic centimeters (30* 
C.) of the vinegar contains not less than nine (9) milligrams of phos- 
phoric acid (PiOi), and requires not less than four (4) cubic centi- 
meters of decinormal acid to neutralize its alkalinity. 

4. Sugar vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent 
acetous fermentations of solutions of sugar, sirup, molasses, or refiners' 
sirup, and contains, in one hundred (too) cubic centimeters (ao° C), 
not less than four (4) grams of acetic acid. 

5. Glucose vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subse- 
quent acetous fermentations of solutions of starch sugar or glucose, is 
dextro-rotatory, and contains, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters 
(30° C), not less than four (4) grams of acetic acid. 

6. Spirit vinegar, distilled vinegar, grain vinegar, is the product made 
liy the acetous fermentation of dilute distilled alcohol, and contains, in 
one hundred ^100) cubic centimeters (20° C), not less than four (4) 
grams of acetic acid. 

///. SALT. 

I. Table salt, dairy sail, is fine-grained crystalline salt containing on 
a water-free basis, not more than one and four-tenths (1.4) per cent 
■of calcium sulphate (CaSOt), nor more than five-tenths Co.j) per cent 
of calcium and magnesium chlorids (CaGi and MgCU), nor more than 
one-tenth (o.i) per cent of matters insoluble in water. 

IV. PRESERVATIVES AND COLORING MATTERS. 

(Sdiedules in preparation.) 



i by Google 



ibyGoogle 



ibyGoogle 



INDEX. 

(Rtftrnicn art to Pagti.l 

Abstraction of Valuable CoNsnTUENT 26, 77 

Act OF August 14, 1876 39 

Act of August 2, 1886 27 

Act of August 8, 1890 S 

Act OF June 6, i^ 27 

Act of March 2, 1897 11 

Act of March 3, i^ 36 

Act of May 9, 1902 5, 6 

Act of July i, 1902 39 

Act of February 20, 190S 36 

Added Poisonous or Deleterious Ingredient 28, 77, 88 

Added Substance' Must be Named 95 

Admixture of Inferior Ingredients 21, 24, 25, 77, ^ 

Adulterati on — 

Abstraction of Valuable Constituent 26, 77 

Admixture of Inferior Ingredient 21, 24. 25 77, 88 

Common Form of 24 

Concealment of Damage or Inferiority 27, 77 

In General 21 

Must be Determined by Analysis of Specimen, 

6, 7, 25, 28. 33. 50 
Adulterateo Butter (See Renovated Butter). 
Adulterated Food or Drugs. 

Not Prohibited if Properly Marked at 

"Agent" 42 

Agent's Name 42 

Agseeuent for Suppression of False Indications of Origin 4S 

Alcohol go. St, 78, 96 

In Drugs 56, 78, 96, 119 

How Named 96. i ip 

Quantity or Proportion, how stated 51. 98 

In Food 50, 56, "i? 

Need not be Stated 56. "6 

Wood 51 

Anilinb Colors 27, 30, 34 

If used Must be Named 31 

Analysis 6, is, i7> 74, 75, 84 

Of Finished Product Only 6, 26, 28, 33, 50 

Arbitrary or Fanciful Name 54. 93 

"Artificial" 113 

Artificial Color on Flavor 40, 68, 113 

Must be Stated 40, 68 

Articles to Which the Act Applies 19, 20 

Drugs 19 

Foods 20 

Used tor Technical Purposes 19, 123 

Without Labels 46,94 

Association of Official Agricultural Chemists 23 

Baking Powder 24, 71 

Baltimore Oysters 44 

Barytes, in Confectionery 34, " 

Bay Rum 19 

Beine, in SB 4 



i by Google 



I 62 Index. 

i.RtttT*nctt art la PaguJi 

Behzoate of Soda 30 

Benzoic Acid 31 

Beverages 20, 156 

BisuLPHATES IN Glucose ok Gelatin 34 

Bleachbks in Cohfectionesy 34 

Blend as, 27, 60, 61, 79, 93, 106, no 

Marking: 106, 129 

Blended Whiskey &i, no, 129 

Boric Acid 31 

Burgundy 44 

Butter 24, 27, 44, 115, 144 

Coloring of 27, 115 

BuTTERiNE (Se« Oleouargarine). 

Candy 33. 34. 148 

Cannabis Indica 52, 121 

Canned Corn 44 

Canned Fruits 44, 147 

Canned Goods 4 

Labels on 47, 70 

Canned Vegetables 147 

Castor Oil 19 

Catsup 30, 14? 

Benzoate of Soda in 30 

Cayenne and Red Pepper 149 

"Cereal Coffee" 59, 115 

Champagne 44, 45, 132 

"Champagne Style" 45 

Cheese 26, 27, 115, 144 

Filled 2, 5, 39 

Chemical Foruula 53, 120 

Chemical Name 53, 120 

Cheu icAL Reagents, Masking 123 

Chewing Gum ao, 34 

Chocolate 54. I5S 

Chrome Yellow in Conpechoneey 34, 77, 148 

Circular No. 19 23, 141 

"Coated" 27, 28, 77, 88 

Cocoa 24, 69, 155 

Coffee 20, 24, 25, 41. 44. 45. 54. 59. "S. IS5 

"Cereal" 59, 115 

Imitation 54, 115 

Picture on Pack^e 41 

Cognac 44 

Cold Cream 19 

Collective Marks 44 

Collection of Samples (See Samples, Collection of). 

Color 10, 30, 77. 88 

Aniline 27, 30 

If Used Must be Named 31, 69 

Artificial 69, 113 

Oirome Yellow 34, 77, 148 

Coal Tar 27, 77, 148 

Effect of rulings on 30, 32 

Harmless 27, 34, 88 

Mineral 24, ^, 148 

Natural 40 

Of Butter 27,115 

Of Cheese 27, 115 



i by Google 



i63 



(RtftfHcti an to Pagti.) 

COLOB— 

Of Milk 27 

Of Tea II 

Poisonous 29 

To Conceal Dam^e or Inferiority 27, 77 

Vegetable ^-34 

Wholesomeness of. How Detennined 29, 89 

"Colored" 27, 77, 88 

Color or Flavor 

Not to be Used to Imitate 60, 88 

Vegetable 34 

CoMUERCB Within a State 3 

Compound or Mixture 25,27,57,58*59.60161.106 

Under Distinctive Name 57, 58 

Must Bear Name of Place of Manufacture 58, 106 

Not Under Distinctive Name 59 

Must be Marked "Compound" or "Mixture" 59 

Ingredients Must be Named 94, 106 

Whiskey 61, 129 

Compound, Drug 61, 127 

condbunation ii 

Condiments '. 20, 76, 149 

Confectionery 20, 24, 33, 77, 87 

Constituent, Abstraction of 26, 77 

"Corn Cures" 19 

Correction of' Labels ok Hand 8 

Courts, Proceedings in 17 

Cranberries 29, 44 

"Cure" 41 

Dairy and Food Products Falsely Labeled 39 

Damage or Inferiority, Concealment op 27, 59, 77 

Dealer, Liability of 3 

Deceptive Label or Brand 78 

Decisions by Secretary op Agriculture. 

Effect of 30, 32 

Scope and purpose 109, 114 

Decomposbd Substance S, 33, 77 

Delaware Grapes 45 

Delaware Peaches 44 

Deleterious Ingredient 34,77 

Delivery to Another 3, 73 

Dentifrice ig 

Derivatives op Substances Required to be Named 50, 96 

How Slated 50, 120 

Design or Device 40, 42, 78, 91 

False or Misleading 40 

Trademark 42 

Diluents Not Prohibited 26 

Diseased Animal, Product op 33, 77 

Disinfectants 19 

Distinctive Name 25, 54, 59, 78, 79, 93 

Of Mixtures or Compounds 95 

District Attorney 17, 75 

District op Columbia 2 

Application of Act in a 

Collection of Samples in 14 

Dairy and Food Products Imported Into 39 

Inspection of Materials in 7 

Manufacture of Food or Dtugs in a, 7, 69 



ly Google 



164 Index. 

DiSTWCT or Columbia — 

Physicians' Prescriptions in 7i 23> 50 

Refilling Packages in 49, 56 

Retailer in 7 

Selling or Offering for Sale in 7 

Stock on Hand 8 

Supplemental Labels 8 

"Distributed by" 42.70 

Distributor's Naue 42 

Dried Fruits 30, 146 

Sulphurous Acid in 30 

Drink ao 

Drinking Water ao 

"Drug" 19, 49, 76 

Drugs — 

Compound 61, 127 

Differing From Standards ■. . . .22, 76 

Formula 53. 118 

Imitation 48 

Imported 10 

Labels on 47 

Must State Substances Required to be Named.. 49, iig 

Name 52, 53, 92, 119, 120 

Standards 21, 86 

Trade Designation — Used for Technical Purposes 123 

Ediole Vegetable Oils (»t Fats 153 

Effect of Act 12 

Effect op Rulings of Secretary of Agriculture 30 

Elgin Butter 44 

Eliminated Substances 25, 50, 88 

Need Not be Suted 50 

Epsom Salts 46, 48 

Examination (See Analysis). 

Exports g, 73, 99 

Preservatives in 9 

Extracts 20, 24, 50, 113, 152 

Externally Applied Preservatives 28,31,77,^ 

Face Powder 19 

Factories, Inspection of 6, 86 

False Indications of Origin 37, 39, 43 

Dairy or Food Products, Domestic 39 

Foreign Name 54. 55. 93 

Geographical Name 45, 93 

False Name 38' 

False or Misleading Design or Device 40, 7S 

False oh Misleading Statement 40, 41, 63, 66, 78, 79, 91 

"Cure" 41 

False Trade Description 37, 38' 

Fictitious Name 38, 43, iii 

Filled Cheese 2, 5, 39 

Filthy Substance S, 33, 37 

Finished Product — Analysis 6, 7, 26, 28, 33, 50 

Fish ao 

Flavor 34, 35, 93 

Must Not be Used to Imitate 60, 94 

Poisonous 34 

Flavoring Extracts 20, 24, so, 113, 151 

Fi-ouE 54. 60, 145; 



i by Google 



Index. 165 

{R./«-oK« or. to Pag,,.) 



Name 46, 76, 92 

Standards 23, 33 

Bulletin 33 

Food and Dbugs Act, June jo, 1906. 

Sec. I 2. 73 

Sec. 2 3. 8, 72 

Sec. 3 29, 74 

Sec 4 15. 16, 17, 62, 75 

Sec. 5 16, 62, 75 

Sec 7 22, 24, 25, 36, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33- 59. 76 

jst under Dnigs 22, 76 

2d under Drags 22, 76 

Confectionery 33, 77 

1st under Food 24, 25, 59, 77 

2d under Food 24, 25, 77 

3d under Food 26, 77 ' 

4th under Food 27, 28, S9. 77 

5th under Food 28, 31, 77 

6th under Food 32, 72 

c„ a J 25, 26, 38, 35, 36, 40, 41. 45, 46. 48, 49 

^^'^ I 50,54,55.56.57.58,59,61.66.78 

1st paragraph 40, 41, 45, 78 

1st under Drugs 48, 58, 78 

2d under Drugs 49, 50, 78 

1st under Food 54, 55, 56. 58, 78 

2d under Food 56, 57, 78 

3d under Food 57, 79 

4th under Food 57, 79 

1st proviso 57, 79 

2d proviso 58, 59, 60. 61, 79, 129 

Further proviso or, 79 

Sec 9 14, 15, 64. 66, 80 

Sec 10 II, 12, 80 

Sec II 10, 81 

Sec 12 2, 83 

Sec. 13 82 

Title 1,83 

Food Inspection Decisions — 

40. Filing Guaranty 66, 105 

41. Approval of Labels 105 

42. Mixing Flours 106 

43. Relabeling of Goods on Hand I07 

44. Scope and Purpose of Food Inspection Decisions. . . 109 

45. Blended Whiskies 1 10, 129 

46. Fictitious Firm Names in 

47. Flavoring Extracts I13 

4^ Substances Used in the Preparation of Foods II4 

49. Time Required to Reach Decisions II4 

50. Imitation Coffee 59, 115 

51. Coloring of Butter and Cheese US 

52. Form of Label 47, 52, no 

53. Formula on the Label of Drugs 118 

54- Declaration of Quantity or Proportion of Alcohol 

Present in Drug Products I19 

55. Method of Stating Quantity or Proportion 120 

56. Names to be Employed in Declaring Amount of the 

Ingredient Required by Law 120 



i by Google 



1 66 Index. 

{Refrrtncu art to Pagti.) 

Food Inspection Decisions — 

57. Physicians' Prescriptions 122 

58. The Labeling of Products Used as Food and Drugs 

as Well as for Technical and Other Purposes 123 

59. National Formulary Appendix 124 

60. Minor Border Importations 125 

61. Cocoa Butter Substitute 125 

62. Guaranty on Imported Products 126 

63. Use of the Word "Compound" in Names of Drug 

Products 127 

64. Labeling of Sardines I^ 

65. The Labeling of Whiskey, Blends and Compounds 

Thereof 129 

Foods Particularly Refer bed to — 

Baking Powder 24 

Beverages 20 

Burgundy 44 

Butler 24, 27, 44, 115, 144 

Butterine (See Oleomargarine). 

Canned Com 44 

Canned Fruits 44, 147 

Candy 34, ^^ 

Catsup 30, 147 

Champagne 44. 4S 

Cheese 26, 27, 115 

Filled 2, 5, 39 

Chewing Gum ao, 34 

Chocolate 54, 154 

Cocoa 24. 69. 1S5 

Coffee ao, 24, 25, 41, 44, 54, 59, 115, 155 

Coffee, Cereal 59, 115 

Cognac 44 

Confectionery 20, 24, 33, 77, 87 

Cranberries ^> 44 

Dried Fruits 30. 146 

Drinking Water 20, 33 

Extracts 20, 24. 50, 113, 152 

Flavoring Extracts 20, 24, 50, II3, 152 

Fish 20 

Flour 54, 60, 145 

For Animals, etc, 20 

Gelatin 34, 114 

Glucose 31, 34, 148 

Grain ao, 14s 

Hay 20 

Honey 24, 41, 149 

Ice Cream 33, 34, 145 

Imitation 25 

Imported 9, 20, 40 

Jams 24. 146 

Jellies 24, 146 

Liquors 2, 20, 39. 61, rag 

Maple Synip 41, 44, 54, 148 

Meats and Meat Products 9, 10, 20, 99 

Milk 20, 26, 27, 33, 143 

Mineral Waters 20, 33 

Mixed Flour 39, 106 

Molasses 24. i47 

Moselle ^ 



ly Google 



Index. 167 

iR,f.r,„ct, art to Fata.) 

Foods Pagticulaely ■Refekked to — 

Mustard 59, ISO 

Oleoma rsarine 2, 5, 39 

Olive Oil 24,54. 153 

Oranges 44 

Peaches 29, 44 

Port 44 

Preserves 2J^ 146 

Proprietary ^S, 61, 63, 79, Si, gs 

Renovated Butter z, 5. 6. 39 

Rice 31 

Rye and Wheat Flour 60, 106 

Sail 20, 30. 40. 158 

Sardines 128 

Sea Food 20 

Spices 20, 24, 25, 30, 40, 149 

Sugar ao, 30, 40, 41, i47 

Syrup 8. 10, 30, 41. '48 

Tea 10, ao, iss 

Tokay 44. 45 

Vanilla Extract 54. ii3. i53 

Vinegar 24, 30. 40, 157 

Whiskey 26, 44, 54, 61, 62, 110, 129 

Wines ao, 129 

FoRKiGN Label 56, 91 

FoBEiGN Name 54,55.93 

Foa«ALDEHYDE 31 

Form op Label 47 

FORMDLA— 

Drugs 53, "8 

Not Required 53 

If Given Must be Correctly Stated 54 

Proprietary Foods 6i, 62, 79. 8? 

Fruit and Fruit Products 1415 

Fruit Juices 156 

Gelatin 34, "4 

Geographical Name 45, 92, 93 

Type 45, 93 

Glucose 31.34. 148 

Glycogen 31 

Grain 20, 145 

Guaranty 63, 80, B7, 105 

Applies to Unbroken Packages Only 65 

Branding Not Guaranty 94 

Effect of 63, 80, S^, 105 

Filing 63, ^, los 

Form of 63.64.^ 

Marking Goods Under 63, ic^ 

Not Government Guaranty 66 

Not Protection against Prosecution 63, 105 

Not to be Given by Foreigner 66 

Signature to 64, 8a 

GUCKENHEIHEB V, SELLERS 4 

Hair Tonic 19, sa 

Haruon, in re 4 

Hay ao 

Hearing Before Secretary op Agriculture 16, 75, 85 

Importance of 10 

Honey 24, 41, 149 

Picture on Package 41 



ly Google 



i68 Index. 

(«*/«-«c« an Iff Patn.l 

Ice Creau 23, 34, 145 

Imitatiok 25, 46, 4^ 54, 55, 60, 6t, 94, 113, 115, la? 

Butter (See Renovated Butter). 
Cheese (See Filled Cheese). 

Drugs 48, 78 

Foods 25. 54, 58. 78 

Must be Plainly Marked 58 

Permissible S8 

Whiskey 61, lag 

Imported Foobs and Drugs g, 20, 40, 66, 67, 81, 99, 125 

Ajipeal to Secretary of Agriculture loa 

Bond Required lOi 

Declaration 11, 100 

Denaturing loi 

Guaranty Does Not Apply to 67 

Marking 40 

Meats and Meat Products 9, 10, zo 

Notification to Importer 101 

Samples of 9, 10, 81 

Shipment 102 

Tea 10, 30, 145 

"Importer" 42 

Importer's Name 42 

Indian River Orakgbs 44 

Indications of Origin 43. 44 

Individual Package 4 

Inert Substances 25 

Inferiority, Concealment of 27, 77 

Inspection of Materials 5,7.87,90 

In District of Columbia 7 

In Territories 7 

Under Meat Inspection Law 6 

Insular Possessions i. 82 

Introduction Into a State 3, 7.1 

Jams 24, 146 

Java 44.45 

Jellies 24, 146 

Jobber's Name 42 

Jobbers, Guaranty by 64 

Kentucky Whiskey 44 

Labels 46, 70, 78, 9°. lOS. io7, "6. 123. 128 

Correction of 8 

Form of 52, 70, 90, 116 

General Requirements 46 

In Foreign Language 56 

Not Required 46 

Of Whiskeys 129 

Omission of 46 

On Canned Goods 47 

On Drugs 47 

On Hand, Correction of 8 

On Products Also Used for Technical Purposes 123 

On Sardines 128 

Supplemental 8, 53 

Will Not be Approved by Secretary of Agriculture 105 

"Like Substances" 61, 93, 106, no. 129 

Liniments 19, 52 

Lifluiir Dentifrices 19 



i by Google 



169 



(Refertncti are to Pagit,') 

Liquors 2, 20, 39, 61, 129 

In Confectionery 34. 7?. 148 

Bottled 4 

Local Products 44 

Locality op Origin 37. 41. 7° 

Need Not be Stated 41. 43. 44. 47 

If Stated Must be Correctly Stated 44, 47 

Magkesiuu Sulphate 46. 40 

MAtxB Canned Corn 44 

Manufacture of Foods or Drugs 3 

In District of Columbia a, 7. Gp 

In States 2, 5 

In Territories 2, 7, 69 

In Two or More Places ^, 93 

Manufacturer's Name 31.41 

Need Not be Stated 41 

If Stated Must be Correctly Stated 41 

Maple Syrup 41. 44. 54. I48 

Marking Goods Ukder Guaranty 63 

Massage Creau 19 

Materials — 

Inspection of 5, 7, 87. 90 

Of Which Composed 37 

Raw 33. 37, 9° 

Meat and Meat Food Products 9, 10, 20, 99, 102 

Imported 9, '0, «>, 99, 102 

Meat Inspection Law 6,30 

Preservatives Permitted by 3P 

Medicinal Soap 19 

Merchandise Marks Act 24» 37 

Defenses Under 39 

Milk 20. 24. 26, 27, 33, 143 

Coloring 27 

Mineral Colors 32 

Mineral Substances — 

In Confectionery 77, 87, 148 

In Food 25, 34, 57 

Mineral Water 20. 33 

Misbranding 21, 36, 78, 90 

Drags 48 

Foods 53 

Prior United States Statutes Regarding 39 

Unintentional 39 

*'Mix ed" 27. 77 

Mixed Flour 39,60,106 

Marking 39 

Mixing 27 

Mixtures or Compound.<, . . .35, 27, 57, 58. 59, 60, 61, 62, 79, 106, 129 

Marking 58, 106 

Mustard 59, 150 

Not Under Distinctive Names 59, 78 

Rye and Wheat Flour 60, 106 

Under Distinctive Names 44, 57, 79 

Mocha 44 

Molasses 24, 147 

Morphine in Food S7 

Moselle 44 

Mustard 59, 150 



i by Google 



170 Index. 

iRtf,r,nm or. to Pat") 

Naue — 

Arbitrary or Fanciful 54 

Chemical Name 53 

Distinctive 25, 54. 59. 78. 79. W 

Drugs Recognized in PbannacoptKia or Formulary. .46, 48, 91 

Common Name May be Used 46, 48, 120 

Fictitious 43, III 

Foreign 54. 55. 93 

Geographical 45, 93 

Type 45, 93 

Of Article Need Not be Stated 46 

If Stated Must be True Name 46 

Of Food Product 46, 93 

Of Locality of Origin 42, 58 

Of Manufacturer Need Not be Stated 41, 42, 47 

If Stated Must be True Name 41, 42, 47, 90, 92 

Of Substances Required to be Named 52, 53, 120 

Narcotic Drug — 

In Confectionery 34. 35. 77, 88, 14S 

National Foruulary 22, 23, 46, 47, 48, 76, 124 

Natural Color 40 

Naturally Poisonous or Deleterious Ingredient 29, 88 

New York Canned Fruits 44 

Ointments 19 

Oleomargakine 2, 5, 39 

Olive On. ..'. 24, 54, 153 

OuissioN TO State Facts 40 

Opium 57 

Tincture of $7, 120 

Oranges 44 

Ordinary Condiuektal Substances 107 

Ordinahy Preservatives 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Okiginal Package 3, 4. 5. 7. 8. '4. 32, 49. 63, 64, 6s, 70, 74. 83 

Samples Must be From 14 

"Packed for 42, 70 

Paraffin 31, 34 

Paster (Sec Supplemental Label), 

Patent Medicines 22, 49 

Peaches ag, 44 

Pennsylvania, Schallenberger vs 4 

Pepper 151 

Perfumes 19 

Pharmaceutical Preparations 19 

Pharmacopoeia 22, 23, 46, 47, 48, 49, 76, 86 

Physicians' Perscriptions 7, 19, 22, 50, 122 

In District of Columbia 7, 23, 50 

In States 22,50 

In Territories 7, 23, 50 

Pictorial Matter 40, 41 

"Pieces" 55 

Place of Origin (See Locality of Origin). 
Place or Country in Which Made or Produced (See 
Locality of Origin). 

Plasters 19 

Poisonous Color or Flavor 34, 77, SS 

Or Preservative 29, 77, 89 



i by Google 



Index. 171 

(Rtftrtncti art to Patti.) 

Poisonous Ingkedient 28, 77 

Added 28, 77 

Natural 29, 88 

Port 44 

Portion of Ahiwai. Unfit for Food 33, 7? 

"Powdered" 27, 88 

Poultry 20 

Preserves 24, 146 

PrES E R VATI VES— 

Benzoic Acid 31 

Benzoate of Soda 31 

Boric Acid 30, 31 

Commonly Used 30, 40 

Effect of Ruling:s on 30, 32 

Externally Applied 28* 31, 77. 89 

Formaldehyde 31 

In Exports 9 

Not Commonly Used Must be Named 31 

Ordinary 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Permitted Under Meat Inspection Law 30 

Poisonous or Deleterious 29, 77 

Salt 30, 40 

Saltpeter 30 

Salycilie Acid 32 

Sodium Sulphate 32 

Sulphurous Acid 30 

Sulphate of Copper 32 

Sugar 30, 40 

Vinegar 30, 40 

Wood Smoke 30, 40 

Private Brand 43 

Proceedings Under the Act IS, 16, 17 

Based on Analysis of Finished Product 6, 7, s6, 28, 33, 50 

Process Buttkr (See Renovated Butter). 

Product Finished, Only Subject to Analysis, , . .6, 7, 26, 28, 33, so 

Products foh Technical Purposes 123 

Proportions of Substances Required to be Named (See 
Quantity). 

Proprietary Foods 25. 61, 62, 79. 86, 95 

Formula 61, 79> 86 

Proprietary Medicines 19, 22, 41, 49 

"Cure" 41 

PCBLtcATiON 18, 75, 86 

Under State Laws 17 

Pt;RPosE OF THE Act i. 36, 109, 129 

Putrid Substances 6, 33 

8uant1ty or proportion of color or preservative 4i 
UANTiTY OR Proportion of Substances Required to be 

Named 50, 51. 98, 119 

How Stated 50, 51, 98 

Not to be Under Stated 51, 96 

Variation Permitted Si. 96 

Raw Material 5, 7, 32, 77, 90 

Inspection 5, 7, 90 

Receivinc and Delivering Adulterated or Misbranded 
Goods 3 



i by Google 



172 Index. 

IRtftrtncti are fo Pofs.i 
Refilled Package — 

In District of Columbia 49 

In States 49 

In Territories 49 

Refillinc Package ,. 49, 56, 78 

DrUffS 40, 78 

Foods 56, 78 

In District of Columbia 49 

In States 49 

In Territories 49 

Regional Marks 45 

Regulations (S« Rules and Regulations). 

Remedies 19 

"Remedy for" 41 

Renovated Butter 3, 5, 6, j) 

Marking 39> 144 

Retailer — 

In District of Columbia 7, S^ 

In Territories 7, 56 

Retailer's Naue 42 

Retail Package 4, 70 

Revised Statutes, Sees. 2933 to 2938. 10 

Rice 31 

Roquefort Type 55 

Rules and Regulatious— 

Amendment of 102 

Authority for 74 

Regulation i 7.83 

Regulation 2 4. 5, 83 

Regulation 3 13. 84 

Regulation 4 15, 16, 84 

Regulation 5 15,85 

(a) 85 

(b> 85 

(c) 85 

Regulation 6 18,86 

(a) 86 

(b) 18, 86 

(c) 18,86 

Regulation 7 86 

(a) 86 

(b) 86 

Regulation 8 67,86 

(a) 62, 86 

(b) 62,87 

Regulation 9 64. 87, 105 

(a) 87 

(b) 87 

(c) 87 

(d) 87 

Regulation 10 87 



[5! 



(c) 

Reguiation ii 9,25,88 

Regulation 12 27, ^ 88 

(.) 88 

(b) 27,88 



ibyGoogle 



Index. 173 

IRiftrtnti, <t» to Pat«.) 
Rules and Regulations — 
Regulation 12 

(c) 27.88 

38,88 



.Si 



Regulatio' 

Regulation 14 28,31 

(a) a> 

(b) 89 

„ , .(c) 89 

Regulation 15 89 

(a) 89 

„ , .(bi ■89.114 

Regulation 16 5, 6, 7, 90 

(a) 90 

(b) 90 

Regulation 17 90, 116, 117, I30, 133 

(3) 90 

<b) 47, S2. t» 

(c> 56. 91. "6 



(f) 91, 106 

(g) 91 

(h> 91 

(i) 8, S3. 91. 107, 108 

Regulation 18 46, 92, iii, 112 

(a) 92 

(b) 46. 92 

Regulation 19 92 

(a) 92 

(b> 93 

J') 4S,93 

(d) 54> 93 

Regulation 20 93 

(a) 93 



Regulation a 
(a) 
(b) 



\t\ 



60, 9* 

&>. 94 

. . 60, 94 

<f) 58,60, 61, IIS, 129 

Regulation 23 94, 113 

Regulation 23 94 

Regulation 24 94 

Regulation 25 ,.95, 12$ 

(a) 95 

(b) 9S 

Regulation 26 26,55,95 

Regulation 27 9S 



Regulation 28 5<^ 51, 53, 96, 108, 116, 117, iiS 

(a) 51. 52. 96 

(b) 52,96 



.Ogle 



(b) 
(c) 
(d) 



96 
96 

5°. 95 



Regulation 33 11, 100, 

<a) 

.(b) 



135 



Regnlat 
Regulat 
Regulation 36 . 
Regulation 3? . 
Regulation 38 . 



Regulat _. „ . 

Regulation 40 

Rye and Wheat Flour 60, il 

Saccharine 32, 34 

Salt 20, 30, 40, 158 

As Preservative 30, 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Saltpeter — 

As Preservative 30, 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Salves 19 

Salycilic Acm 32 

Samples, Collection of 13, 74. 84 

By Purchase Only 13, 84 

From Unbroken Packages Only 14, 84 

In District of Columbia 14 

In Territories 14 

Of Finished Product Only 6, ?, 26, 38, 50 

Of Imported Foods or Drugs 9, 10, 13 

Suggestions Regarding 15 

Sardines i^ 

sch allen berger vs. pennsylvania 4 

Sea Foods 20 

Secrbtary of Agriculture — 

Effect of Rulings of 30 

Functions 30 

Seizure 11, 80 

Only After Analysis or Examination of Sample 11 

Sellers, Guckenheimer vs. 4 

Selung Adulterated or Misbranded Goch)S — 

In District of Columbia 73 

In Territories 73 



;, Cookie 



Index. 175 

(Reftrttiea are te Fagti.} 

Shellac in Conpectioneey 34 

Shipment or Delivery for Shipment 3 

Single Can or Bottle 4 

Single Constituent i9i i^ 

Skiuued Milk 143 

Cheese 14S 

Smitbpield Hams 44 

Smelling Salts ig 

Soap, Medicinal 19 

Sodium Sulphate 3a 

Specimens (See Samples). 

Spices 20, 24, 25, 30, 40. 149 

As Preservatives 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

"Stained" 38, 77, 88 

Stamps (See Supplemental Label). 
Standards — 

Drugs 21, 22 

Foods 23, 141 

State Laws 12, 71, 72 

Statement, False or Misleading 40, 41, 63, 66, 78, gi 

Statement op Substances Required to be Named — 

Form of Statement 52 

Names to be Used 52, 53, 120 

Type to be Used 91 

Stating Quantity or Proportion S'- 98 

"Stems" 55. 95 

Stock Foods 19, 50 

Stock on Hand January i, 1907 ..8, 68, 107 

In District of Columbia 8 

In Sutes 8 

In Territories 8 

Substance Mixed 77 

Substances Required to be Named 78, 96, 11& 120 

Derivatives 97 

Drugs 49. 78. 97 

Foods 57, 78, 96 

Names to be Used 120 

Quantity or Proportion 50, 51, 96, 98, I19 

Substances Uses as Drugs or Foods and Also fox Techni- 
cal Purposes 19, 123 

Substitutiok 35, 77, 95 

Sugar 20, 30, 40, 41, 147 

As Preservative 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Sulphate of Copper 32 

Supplemental Label 8, 53, 91, 107 

Sulphurous Acm 30, 1 14 

Syrup 8, 10, 30, 41, 148 

Picture on Package 41 

Talc 19. 34. 77, I49 

Talc Powder 19 

Tea 10, 20, 155 

Color of II 

In Original Package 11 

Repacked 11 

Tea, Coffee and Cocoa 155 

TnutA Alba 34. 77. '49 



ibvGooglc 



176 Index. 

IRtftTtHcii art lo Pagti.) 
Tersitories — 

Application of Act in 2 

Collection of Samples in 14 

Dairy or Food Products Introduced Into 39 

Includes Insular Possessions 2, & 

Inspection of Material in 7 

Manufacture of Foods and Drugs in a, J, 73 

Physicians' Prescriptions 7, 33, 50 

Refillii^ Packages in 49, 56 

Selling or Offering for Sale in 7 

Stock on Hand in 8 

Toilet Fkefakations 19 

Tokay 44,45 

Style 45 

Tooth Powder J9 

Trade Description 24, 37, 48 

Trademark 38, 39, 42i 48, 54 

Act 36 

Counterfeiting of 39, 42 

"Trimmings" 55 

Turpentinb ipi 123 

Uniform State Laws la 

Uniktentional Misbranding 39 

Vanilla 54, 113, 153 

Vaselikb— 

May be Used in Confectionery 34 

Vegetable Colors and Flavors 34 

Vegetables and Vegetable Products 145 

Vermont Maple Syrup 44 

Veterinary Medicines 19, So 

Vinegar 24, 30, 40, 157 

As Preservative 30, 40 

Need Not be Named 40 

Waste Material '. S5, 95 

Water, Drinking ao 

Mineral ' 20 

Weight oh Measure 37, 57, 78, 98 

Permitted Variation 98 

Whiskey 26, 44, 54, 61, 62. no, 129 

Blended 61, 62. 110, 129 

Compound 61, 129 

Imitation 6r, I2g 

Wholesaler 3, 63 

Guaranty by 64, 80, 87 

Name 4a 

Wholesale Package 4 

Wholesome Food Not Prohibited ao 

Wholesomeness of Colors and Preservatives 29, 89 

Wines 20, 129 

Wood Alcohol 51 

Wood Smoke- 
As Preservative 30. 40 

Need Not be Named 40 



A7 



Do,i,.ab,GoOgle 



ibyGoogle 



ibyGoogle 



ibyGoogle 



HARVARD LAW SCHOOL LIBRARY 

This book is due on or before the date stamped be- 
low. Books must be returned to the Circulation 
Desk from which they were borrowed. Non- 
receipt of an overdue notice does not exempt 
the user fix»n ■ fine. 



-ytg^ g ^-Y *^ fW ^ 



ly Google 



I 



Dijii.ab.Google 



,Google 



