MANN 

TX 

663 

16 
D6 

1907 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 101 486 136 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924101486136 



Publiihed by 

The BoKrd of Education 

1907 



TOLEDO 
PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



COURSE IN 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



COMPILED BY 

THE TEACHERS OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN 

THE WARD SCHOOLS 



1907 



TOLEDO, OHIO: 
THE B. F .WADE & SONS CO. 
PRINTERS 



LESSONS IN COOKING. 



The object of this study is to promote neatness, order, economy 
and accuracy. 

Cooking is the art of preparing food by means of heat for the 
nourishment of the human body. Food is cooked to develop new flavors, 
to make it more palatable and digestible and to kill germ'S. 

Heat for cooking is obtained by the combustion of inflammable sub- 
stances; oil, wood, coal, coke, charcoal, gas, gasoline, alcohol and elec- 
tricity. 

The ripening of all grains and fruits is the natural cooking,: by the 
lieat of the sun. 

ELEMENTS AND COMPOUNDS. 

Some substances are simple; that is, they consist of but one tjhing, 
for example, iron, tin, oxygen and carbom. A simple substance is an 
element. Other substances are composed of two or more elements, for 
example, watev, carbon, dioxide, salt, etc. A substa.nce composed of two 
or more elements combined is a compound. lo a mixture each sub- 
stance keeps its own properties; in a compound these give place to new 
properties belonging to the compound. 

PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL CHANGES. 

A change in the form of matter without change in its composition 
is ciaJled a pihysical change such as the evaporation of water, the freezing 
of water, the melting of butter or lard. 

A change in the composition of matter is called a chemical change, 
such as the rustifig of iron, the. burning of wood and the burning of 
sugar. 

TO BUILD A FIRE.' 

Open the direct drafts, remove the ashes from the firebox and brush 
the under side of the lid, then put crumpled soft paper over the bottom 
o; the box, then lay on fine soft wood cross-wise, next larger pieces of 
wood with a little soft coal on top. When the stove is bllaickened start the 
fire from the grate in front. Liquid polish should not 'be used when the 
stove is hot. 

Wherever oxygen unites with another substance so rapidly that light 
and heat are 'given off, the result is burning or oo'mbustion. 

CLEANLINESS AND CLEANING. 

Dirt is anything unclean. It may be wet or dry. Dry dirt is called 
dust. There are two kinds of dust, visible or lifeless dust, such as the 
dust that collects on furniture, and invisible or living dust, such as 
germs iand molds. Some kinds of dust are called ibacteria and if they 



enter the body may cause disease, such as consumption, diphtheria arid 
t3T)ihoid fever. Other kinds cause food to spoil. Bacteria thrive best in 
dark, damp places, where other dirt is present. Anything that kills 
bacteria or hind«rs their growth is called a disinfectant. Light, air land 
water are the simplest disinfectants. 

DISHWASHING. 

Disjiwashing is drudgery, only when made so by poor methods. Col- 
. lect all dishes, scraping and rinsing them well and pile all of a kind to- 
gether near the dish-pan. Wipe the table to have a place to put clean 
dishes. Have the dish-pan half full of hot soapy water and the drainer 
near. Do not leave the soap in the water but replace in soap-dish. 
Wash the dishes in the following order: glass, cups, saucers, silver, 
plates, larger dishes and platters, last, tins and cooking utensils. Rinse 
all dishes in hot water before wiping. Have plenty of dry wiping 
towels. When all dishes are washed, rinsed and wiped, put in their 
proper places. Empty the dish vvater. Do not put the handles of case 
knives or forks in the water as this cracks and loosens them and be 
careful not to wet the cogs of Dover egg beaters. Wlas'h the lower part 
and wipe the handle with a damp cloth as the water makes ,them turn 
hard. Use wire dish rings for scraping the iron ware. Use Sapolio for 
removing the burnt food or for discolored enamel ware. Wash tea and 
coffee pots in hot water without soiap. cleansing the sipo'uts. Rinse in 
hot water, dry and allow to stand open for a while. Soak dishes that 
have contained starchy foods, milk and eggs in cold water; those having 
contained sugar in hot water. Wipe greasy dishes with soft paper and 
soak in hot water. Polish steel knives and forks with Sapolio or 
powdered scouring brick, rubbing with a cork. Clean silver with whiting 
and soft cloth; polish with chamois. Scrub moulding boards with the 
grain of the wood using a scrub brush and Sapolio. Wash dish and rins- 
ing pan and wipe dry with a towel. 

CARE OF DISH TOWELS AND CLOTHS. 

Great care should be taken with the towels and cloths used in 
housekeeping as they may be a fertile source of disease. Have dish 
towels and cloths neatly hemmed and use them only for the purpose ■ 
for which they were intended. Have two cloths, one for the dishes and 
one for the sink. Wash the dish towels once a day in hot soapy water 
and the cloths after each meal. Hang in the sun to dry. 

CARE OF SINK. 

When dish washing is finished, wash every part of the sink with 
hot soapy water, scouring if necessary. Keep it at all times free -from 
scraps. If sink is of iron wipe dry after washing. Wipe the woodwork. 
Wash the strainer, soap dish and other sink utensils. Flush the sink 
with boiling water every day and once a week with a strong solution 
of washing soda. Keep the faucets bright and clean., 



CARE OP REFRIGERATOR. 

The refrigerla.tor slhould be kept scrupulously cleam No food 
should be left in it long enough to spoil. Keep the food cham'ber dry. 
Clean the refrigerator thoroughly once a week, washing with hot soap 
suds or borax. Put the shelves in the sun or near the fire to dry. Rinse 
the waste pipe with a sal soda solution. 

TABLE SERVICE. 

Much of the comfort and cheerfulness of the family depends upon 
proper service at the table. No matter 'bow plaim the linen and table- 
ware, they should be well .cared for and arranged in an orderly and at- 
tractive manner. A few flowers or a sm'all plant will do much to 
brighten the table. The cloth should be long enough to hang well 
around the table. Under the cloth, pla»ce a silence cloth of canton flan- 
nel, felt or some heavy miaterial. Place the tablecloth in' the center of 
the table with the folds straight and parallel with the edges. 

Place the knife on the right side with the sharp edge toward the 
plate. 

Place the fork on the left side with the tines up. 

Place the soup spoon at' the rig'ht of the knife, bow:l up. 

Place the teaspoons at the left of the forks or at the top of. the 
■ pllate as sipace permits. 

Place the glass at the right hand side above ithe knives. 

Place the butter or the bread and butter plate at the upper left 
hand side. 

Place carving knife and table spoons at the right of the carver and 
the fork at the left. 

' Place extra spoons for serving- vegetables at the right of the server. 

When finger bowls are used put them on dessert plates with a 
doily underneath. 

Where the hostess pours the tea or coffee arrange the service 
neatly, in front of her. 

Arrange the chairs at sufficient distance from the tatle, so they need 
not be drawn out when people are seated. 

RULES FOR SERVING. 

Heat the dishes for food that is to be served hot. 

When passing 'a dish hold it so the thumt will not rest upon the 
upper surface. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help himself .pass 
always to the left side holding the tray lirmly and low so that food may 
be taken with the right hand. 

In passing individual dishes such as cofifee and soup set them do^wn 
care-fully from the right side. 

When the dishes are being served by a person lat the table the 
waitress should stand at the left holding the tray low and near the table. 
Take on the tray one plate at a time and place in front of the person 
for whom it is intended, setting down from the right side. 



When one course is finished, remove the individual dishes one at a 
time, never piling them on top of each other. Then take away those 
holding food. 

Fill the glasses before every course, without removing them from 
the table. Never fill them more than three-fourths full, handling near 
the bottom. 

Before the dessert is served, remove the crumbs from the cloth with 
a brush, crumb knife or napkin. Do not let the table become disorderly 
during a meal. 

The waitress should be neatly gowned, and should wear a white 
apron. She should move quietly, not noticing the convers;ation' oif those 
seated at the table and be quick to anticipate their wants. 



FOODg. 

Proteid 

or 

Tissue building. 



Organic. ^ Carbo. Hydrates 
or 
Heat, fat and energy 
producing foods. ' 

Fat or heat pro- 
ducing food. 



Inorganic. ■ 



Mineral matter or 
bone forming food. 



W'ater. 



Albumen 

Casein 

Fibrin 

Gluten 

Legumen. 



r 

J Starch & 
■j Sugar. 

I 



{■' 



Vegetable 
Animal. 



I Lime 
{ Potash 
Sulphur 
L Iron 

.! The solvent. 



DIGESTION OF FOOD. 

All food is changed into liquid before it can 'be takem into the blood, 
to build up worn out tissues. 

The first step in digestion: In the mouth the food is crushed, 
■mixed with saliva, which changes some of the starch to sugar, therefore 
the necessity of thorough mastication. 

Second step: The gastric juice dissolves the proteids in the stom- 
ach. 

Third step: In the intestines, the bile, pancreatic and intestinal 
juices act upon the food in three ways-: 

First— The rest of the starch is changed to sugar. 

Second— Tlie rest of the proteids are dissolved. 

Third— The fat is divided into small drops and mixed all through 
the food, just as the cream is mixed through milk before it rises to th" 
top. 



HINTS ON HOW TO WORK. 

See that the fire is ready for use or so arranged that it will be ready 
by the tim'e it is needed. 

Collect all materials and Utensils that will be needed, including a 
pan on which to lay sticky knives, spoons, egg bieaters, etc. 

Take care not to make work for yourself by using more utensils 
than are necessary, for instance, by measuring dry materials first, then 
liquids, and last, fats. 

When milk and eggs are used save a little of the milk to rinse out 
the bowl in which the eggs lare beaten. 

Use an earthen bowl and a wooden or granite spoon for mixing 
•cakes, muffins, etc. 

Have all materials ready for use, flour sifted and measured, eggs 
broken, raisins stoned, .pans greased, etc., before beginning to put them 
togetTier. 

Cover the flour barrel, sugar can, baking powder can, soda, spices 
and vanilla as soon as you have taken from them what yoU need. 

Clear up as you work, putting dishes to soak as soon as they are 
emptied and washing them at once if you have a moment to spare. 
Learn to work neatly, carefully, quietly .and quickly. 

PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

C»bserve the following rules in the school kitchen and at hortle: 

Always wear an apron large enough to cover your dress Well. 

Before touching or preparing any food wash hands' thoroughly with 
soap and water; scrub the mails with the nail brush and clean thenl with 
a nail file. Keep a damp towel on hand to wipe your fingers when they 
become soiled or sticky. Always wipe them after touching your hair or 
handkerchief but never on your apron, handkerchief or dish towel. 

The best way to taste of what you are cooking is to take a little of 
the food uip with the mixing spoon, put it in a teaspoon; and taste from 
the teaspoon. If you should happen to taste from the mixing spoon 
wash it before putting back in the dish. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

Boiling is cooking in boiling water. 

Steaming is cooking over boiling water. 

Stewing is cooking in a small quantity of water for a long time at a 
low temperature. 

Broiling is cooking over a clear fire. 
. Pan-broiling is cooking in a hissing hot pan without any fat. . 

Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. 

Frying is cooking in deep fat, raised to a temperature of 350° to 
400° F. 

Baking is cooking in the dry heat of the oven. 

Braising is a form of stewing in tde oven. 

Roasting is cooking before an open fire or in a hot oven. 



METHODS OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS. 

Stirring: Hold the towl flat on the table and the spoon so the 
bottom will .scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl — stir round and 
round until you cannot tell one ingredient from the other. 

Beating: Tip the bowl slightly, hold the spoon so the side will 
scra.pe the bottom and side of the bowl. Bring the spoon up through the 
mixture with a long quick stroke to the other side and continue until 
light and full of bubbles. 

Folding: Bring the material from below gently over the ingredient 
added and continue to cut and fold until thoroughly mixed but do not 
beat nor stir. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
■ (All ingredierUs in these recipes a/re measured level.) , 

All dry materials shoiild be sifted before measuring. 

A cupful is one even full to the top. 

A scant Cup is one in which the material is one-fourth inch from the 
tiop. 

To measure la cupful, put the ingredients in by spoonrfuls, round 
"slightly and level with a knife, taking care not to shake the cup, as this ' 
packs the ingredients, 

A level spoonful is one in which the material ds even with the edge 
of the spoon. One-half a spoonful is measured by dividimg through the 
middle lengthwise. 

Butter melted is butter measured before melting. 

Melted butter is butter measured after melting. 

Table of Abbreviations. 

ssp.— sialtspoon. hr. — hour. 

tsp.— teaspoon. qt. — quart, 

tbsp. — taiblespoon. pt. — pint 
c— cup. lb.— pound. 

spk.— speciC. oz.— ounce, 
mm. — minute. 

Table of Measures and Weights. 

4 ssp.— 1 tsp. 4 c flour— 1 lb. 

3 tsp.— 1 Itsj). 2 .c solid butter— 1 lb. 

16 tbsp.— 1 c. 2 c granulated sugar— 1 lb. 

° °^-— 1 «:• 3 c cornmeal— 1 3b. • 

i /^ , ,P*- ^Vs c powdered sugar— 1 lb 

^pt— Iqt. 2% c brown sugar— 1 lb. 

4 qts.— 1 gal. juice one lemon — 3 tbsp. 



LESSON I. 

Starch. — Dry Heat. 

When starchy foods are subjected to dry heat, tlhey lose their char- 
acter as starch, becoming dextrine. This is much more easily digested 
than starch. The change is similar to that which takes place in the 
mouth when starchy food is mixed with salivia. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale 'bread into one-half inch slices, rgmove crusts, and cut bread 
into J4 inch cubes. Brown in a hot oven and serve with soup. 

Bread Crumbs. 

Dry broken pieces of bread in a warm oven till crisp but not brown. 
Crush until iine with a rolling pin or in a imeat grinder; keep in closely- 
covered glass jars or cans. 

To Butter Crumbs. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c crumbs. Melt butter, add crumbs, and stir 
lightly with a fork until all crumbs are evenly coated. 



LESSON n. 

Water. 

Put a pan of cold water over the fire and watch it. Soon little bub- 
bles form on the edge and bottom of the pan. This is the air in -the 
water which is exipanded by the heat. The bubbles break as they reach 
the colder water near the top, and the- cold water being heavier, goes 
to the bottom. A slight motion is the result and the water is said to be 
simmering. The temperature is then 180° F. After a while all of the 
water becomes very hot. Larger bubbles form, breaking above the sur- 
face, causing a bubbling all over the top, and the water boils. The tem- 
perature is then about 212° After the water has reached the boiling 
point, it can be made no hotter under brdinary circumstances. 

Usies of Water in the Body. 

To quench thirst. 

To thin blood'. 

To aid digestion. 

To regulate the temperature. 

To assist the circulatory system. 

To stimulate the nervous system. 

To carry off waste. 



10 

The primary service of beverages or drinks is to quench thirst. 
Thirst being the body's demand for water, water is the best- of bever- 
ages, other drinks satis.fying thirst simply by means of the water^ they 
contain. While not nutritious, tea and coffee are useful food adjuncts, be- 
cause they prevent tissue from wearing away. Both contain tannirv 
a substance injurious to the stomach and developed by boiling. They 
are much alike in composition, the difiference being in the aromatic oils 
they contain. 

Tea. 

Tea is valued chiefly for its theine, a stimulating property, if not 
taken in excess. It also contains tannin, a bitter su'bstance, which is 
used in making ink and tanning leather. 

Tea consists of the dried leaves of an evergreen shrub, a native of 
China, though it is cultivated in other countries. Only the yoUng leaves 
and buds are picked for the market, the youngest making the finest tea. 

Freshly picked leaves, rolled and dried quickly 'by artificial heat, 
keep their natural color and are sold as green tea. Black tea is pro- 
duced iroffl leaves left ini heaps upon the ground, to darken and de- 
velop a different flavor before being rolled. Both teas come from one 
kind of shrub. 

Coffee 

Coffee is the seed or "berfy" of the cherry like fruit of a tropical 
evergreen, each fruit containing two berries. When the fruit begins to 
s'hrivel, it is shaken to 'the ground and dried until the seeds can easily 
be separated from the pulp. To do this, the seedsi are run between 
wooden rollers, after whicih they are roasted in a revolving cylinder. 
Great care must be taken to have the degree of heat that will best de- 
velop the flavor and aroma. 

The best grade of coffee is known as Mocha. A good mixture is one 
part of Mocha to two parts Java. Buy freshly roasted and unigroiund 
coffee, and grind it at home as needed if possible, as ground coffee in 
many cases may be mixed with cheaper materials. Use an enameled 
or earthen coffee pot. 

Tea. 

1 scant tsp. tea. 1 c boiling water. 

Scald tea pot, put in the tea, and pour over it the freshly boiling 
water. Steep from 5 to 10 min., but do not boil. 

Coffee. 

2 tjbsp. coffee. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

■Vi tsp. egg or Yi crushed egg shell. 1 c. boiling water. 

Scald coffee pot, mix coffee, egg and cold water. Put in the coffee 
pot, and pour over it the freshly boiling water. Boil 3 to S min. and let 
stand 10 min. in a warm place. Pour out Y^ c. and return to coffee pot. 
This clears the spout of grounds. Add a dash of cold water. This beina 



11 

heavier than hot water, goes to the 'bottom, carrying the grounds with it, 
A general rule for coffee is to allow 2 tbsp. coffee for each person, and 
2 extra tbsp. for the coffee pot, with 1 c. boiling water for each 2 tbsp. of 
'coffee. In making coffee in large qwantities, it is not necessary to allow 
the extra coffee. 

Toast Water. 

Equal measures of st&le bread, toasted, and boiMng water. 

Cut bread into thin slices, put into a pan and dry thoroughly in a 
slow oven until hrown and crisp. Break into small pieces; pour over it 
the .boiling water .and stand 1 hr. 'Strain, season with salt, reheat and 
serve. 

Apple Water. No. I. 

Bake apple until tender. Put in a bowl, cover with I ipt. boiling 
water. Cover and let stand until cold. Strain, add sugar if desired. 

Apple Water. No. II. 

Pare apple and slice fine. Cover with 1 c. boiling watef. Stand un- 
til cold. Strain and sweeten to taste. 



LESSON III. 

Water — Continued. 

Fruits. 

All fruits contain large quantities of water, a little organic salts, 
mineral matter, sugar and acid. They have little food value, 'but on ac- 
count of .their medicinal properties, they should 'be m'ore g'emerally used. 

Apples are especially valuable because they contain so much ai these 
minerals. They are more commonly used, because of their abundance 
and cheapness. 

Many fruits are preserved by drying. Such should be soaked ir 
cold water for several hours or ov.er night to supply the water lost by 
evaporation. 

Gelatine. 

Gelatine is a .transparent jelly-like substance obtained from the 
tendons and bones of a calf. Most fruits contain a substance similar to 
this, called pectin, which causes the juices to jelly. 

Gelatine is insoluble in cold water, but soluble in boiling water. 
JSTever cook gelatine, as this develops la disagreea'ble. flavor. 

To Cook Dried Fruits. 

Pick over and wash in several waters. Soak over night or several 
hours in cold water, and simmer in the S'ame water until soft. Sweeten 
to taste and cool. 



12 , 

Apricot Jelly. 

1-3 lb. dried apricots. Juice of 1 lemon. _ 

2 c. cold water. ?4 bo^ gelatine soaked in 

1 c. sugar. J4 c. cold water. 

Wash apricots, soak in the water several hours. Cook in the same 
water till soft. Remo.ve apricots and cut in small pieces. To apricot 
juice add boiling water to m/ake 1 pt. Add soaked gelatine, sugar and 
lemon juice. Strain, add apricots and pour into a mold. Stir twice 
v/hile cooling, to prevent apricots, from settling. Serve with whipppd 
and sweetened cream. 

Baked Apples. 

Wipe apples and core if desired. Put in a baking dis;h and fill the 
cemters with sugar. If mot cored sprinkle with 1 tbsp. supjar for each 
apple. Cover the bottom of the dish with boiling water and bake in a 
moderate oven from 20 to 30 min. or until soft. A little spice may be 
added, if desired. 

Apple Sauce. 

8 sour apples. H c. water. 

Sugar and nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. 

Wash, pore and slice apples. Put in a sauce pan with the water and 
cook until soft. Mash, add sugar and spice and 1 tsp. of butter. 

Cranberries. 

2 c. cranberries. 1 c. sugar. 
yi c. cold water. 

Pick over and wash cranberries, put into a granite sauce pan. 
Sprinkle the sugar over them, add the water and after they begin to boil, 
cook slowly 10 ;min. -closely covered without stirring. Push them down 
with a wooden spoon if inclined to- boil over; for jelly, strain the fruit 
before sugar is added. ' 

LESSON IV. 
Milk.. 

Milk, when pure, forms a perfect food and contains all the necessarj' 
elements to support life. It consists of sugar, water^ fat, mineral nlatter, 
albumen and casein. Care should be taken when milk is received that 
it should be placed in clean dishes kept for the purpose. Upon ex- 
posure to impurities, milk easily absorbs germs, thus making it a fertile 
source of disease. The fat rises to the top, when milk is allowed to 
stand in the form of cream and may be easily separated from the rest 
of the milk. This is the easiest way of lessenimg the food value of 
milk. 

When milk stands in a warm place la change occurs, by which the 
casein solidifies and the liquid separates from' it. This dhange is called 
souring. The curd thus obtained may ht m'ade into cheese. As milk 
is thicker than water, it boils at a higher temperature, sticking to the pan 



13 

and burning easily. The presence of a little sour milk in a pan con- 
taining sweet milk will soon cause the whole mass to become sour. 
Dishes in which milk is kept, should be thoroughly scalded after wash- 
ing and dried in the sun if possible. 

Buttejris made from milk by collecting the fat. The milk or cream 
is agitated, and the fat separates from the liquid, forminig butter. It 
is then well washed to free it of the 'buttermilk and salted. Butter may, 
be made from, either sour or sweet milk or cream. 

Absolute cleanliness is necessary to produce "healthful butter. 

Dutch Cheese. 

'Heat slowly thick, sour milk on the back of the stove or in a pan of 
hot water. As soon as the ourd separates from tl^e whey, strain through 
a cloth, .allowing it to drip until rather dry. Put in a bowl and stir 
with a fork, addinig salt, pepper and cream to taste. 

Junket. 

1 pt. milk. 14 c. sugar. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 tbsp. liquid rennet or 1 junket tablet dissolved in 1 tbs'p. water. 
Heat milk in a double boiler till lukewarm. Add sugar and stir till dis- 
solved. Stir in vanilla and rennet and pour into a dish. Let stand in a 
warm place undisturbed until it thickens, then set in a cool place till 
firm. Sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg and serve with cream and 
sugar. 

Chocolate. 

All preparations^ of cocoa or chocolate and cocoa shells are the 
products of the seeds of the cacao tree. These seeds, called cocoa 
jeans, which are about the size of almonds, lie surrounded by a fibrous 
pulp, in a brownish yellow pod about a foot lonsg, growing from the 
trunk and large limlbs of the tree instead of the branchesi. 

The seeds are separated from the pods, allowed to ferment on the 
ground and then roasted. The thin s'hell is removed, the kernel cracked 
and broken into small pieces. These cocoa nibs are tlhen ground, form- 
ing a smooth paste, which is poured into .moulds for bitter chocolate 
or sweetened and moulded for sweet chocolate. For cocoa, the fat is 
extracted under pressure and the remainder powdered. 

Chocolate. 

2 sq. Biaker's chocolate. 1 pt. water. 

3 tbsp. sugar. . 1 pt. milk- 
Put chocolate with water into sauce pan. Heat until the chocolate 

melts. Add sugar and boil 10 min: Add milk, bring, to a boil and beat 
2 mdn. with a Dover egg-beater. 



14 
LESSON V. 
Milk — Continued. 
Milk Toast. 

Scald milk add butter and salt to taste. Pour over toast and serve 
at once. 

Rice Pudding. No. I. 

Vz c. rice. 54 c. sugar. . Vz tsp. salt. 1 Cxt. milk 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Bake from 

2 to 3 hours in a very slovi^ oven at first, then let it brown slightly. Serve 

hot or cold. 

Rice Pttddingi No. II. 

2 c. cooked rice. V2 c. sugar. 

Yz c. raisins. Vanilla or spice. 

1 c. milk. 

j\Iix all together, put into a pudding dish and bake until brown. An 
egg, thoroughly beaten, may be added if desired. 



LESSON VI. 
Milk — Continued. 

^I'i^lr-a^ ^^3"<= Mange. 

S4 c. cornstarch. Pinch 'oi salt. 

L- 4^ sugar. 1 pt. milk'. 

Lemon rind or cinnamon stick. Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt. Add 
scalded milk, lemon rind or cinnamon stick. Boil 4 min., stirring con- 
stantly. Remove rind or stick and pour into moulds wet in cold water. 
Cool and serve with cream and sugar. 

Minute Pudding. 

4 tbs'p. flour. 2 c. milk. 

salt. 

Mix flour with J4 c. of the milk. Scald remainder and add the flour 
paste. Cook in a double boiler 30 min., season with salt and serve with 
cream, sugar and preserves if desired. 

LESSON VII. 
Albumen — Eggs. 

Eggs contain all the necessary food elments for the support of life, 
except starch, but as they are highly concentrated they are usually com- 
bined with some other food. They should be kept in a cool dark place 
and carefully 'handled. 

Composition — Shell; chalk, carbonate of lime and magnesia. White, 
albumen and water. Yolk; fats, sulphur and phosphorus. 



? 15 

To tell whether an egg is fresh; first observe the shell. A fresh 
egg has a thick rough s^e'l- Second, hold the end of an egg between 
your eyes and the light, if it is clear it is fresh, if cloudy it is stale. 
Third, drop an egg into cold water, if it sinks it is fresh, if it floats it 
is stale. Fourth, shake the egg, holding it near the ear, if the con- 
tents rattle it is spoiled. 

When eggs are used to thicken and enrich a mixture they are 
beaten slightly. When they are used to raise a mixture they are beaten 
very light. 

Albumen when heated becomes a dense white solid. If mixed and' 
heated with a liquid it hardeiis and entangles in its meshes any solids 
or impurities in the liquid rising to the surface v/ith them as scum or 
sinking to the bottom as sediment. It is thus the white of egg clears 
cofifee, soups and jellies. 

Strong acids, corrosive subliniate and creosote which are active 
poisons will also harden albiwnen. Therefore, if any of them are taken 
into the stomach, the vyhite of an egg swallowed quickly, will combine 
with them and protect the stomach. 

Hard Cooked Eggs. 

Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point from 20 to 30 min. 
Serve at once. 

Soft Cooked Eggs. 

Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point from six to ten 
minutes. Serve at once as they harden if allowed to stand. in the hot 
shell. 

Poached Eggs. 

Toast a slice of bread for each egg. Before toasting, trim neatly, or 
cut with a round cutter. Scrape oflf any burnt portion. _ Have a 
very clean shallow pan nearly full of boiling salted water. Remove all 
of the scum and let the water simmer. Break each egg gently into a 
saucer and slip it gently into the water. If the egg is not entirely covered 
by water dip water over it with a spoon and when a film has formed on 
the yolk take up each egg with a skimmer. Drain, trim the eggs and place 
on the buttered toast. Put a piece of -butter and a little salt and pepper 
on each egg. > 

LESSON VIII. 
Eggs Continued. 

Eggs and egg mixtures should be cooked at a low temperature. 

Boiled Custard. 

2 c. milk. Vs tsp. salt. 

Yolks of three eggs. % tsp. vanilla. 

^ c. sugar. 

Scald the milk, beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt to therri: Add 
the hot milk, gradually stirring all the while. Cook in a double boiler 
till the mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the spoon. Take 



16 

custard from fire before it is done as the heat of the bailer cooks it even 
^v'hile it is being turned out. If it begins to curdle, set the upper part of 
the dou'ble boiler immediately into a pan of cold water and beat with a 
Dover egg beater. Strain if necessary, cool and flavor. The whites of eggs 
may be beaten, sweetened with powdered sugar, using 1 tbsp. of sugar for 
each egg. Put in a pan on the top of hot water and bake till 'brown in 
the oven, then retpoving to the top of the custard; or cook by dropping 
from a spoon in hot water on top of the stove, then serve on the custard. 

Baked Custard. 

1 pt. milk. 6 tbsp. sugar. 

3 eggs. . V^ ssp. salt. 

Scald the tailk. Add the sugar and salt to the beaten eggs, and 
pour the scalding milk slowly over them. Put in a baking dish, grate 
nutmeg over the top. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, and 'bake till 
a knife, when inserted, will come out clean. If baked too long, the crust 
will separate and be watery. 



LESSON IX. 
Preservation of Meat and Fish. 

Meat may be preserved by keeping in cold sorage, salting, smoking, 
canning and pickling. Much of th« nutriment in meat isi irripaired by most 
of the methods of preservation. 

To freshen salt meat or fish, soak it in cold water according to its 
saltness or hardness. 

Cseamed caad' Dried Beef. 

Yi lb. dried beef. 4 tbsp. flour. 

2 tbsp. butter. K c. cold water. 

1 pt. milk. 

Saute the dried 'beef in hot butter until it curls up. Pour over it 1 pt. 
of milk. Mix flour and water, and stir until smooth. Add to the imilk and 
beef and cook until it thickens. Serve on toast. If beef is very salt, soak 
in cold water and drain before frying. 

Creamed Codfish. 

14 lb. codfish. 4 tbsp. flour. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

Pick the codfish in small pieces and remove all the bones. Cover 
with cold water and boil until tender. Drain and add the milk. Cream 
the butter and flour, add hot milk till thin enough to pour. Stir into the 
milk and codfish. Cook until it thickens. To make it richer the beaten 
yolks of one or two eggs may be added. Cook one minute and serve. 



17 
LESSON X. 
Preserved M^at. — Continued. ' 

Ham and Eggs. 

Slice liam in ^4 in- slices. Trim off rind and rusty edges. Put in 
a liot frying pan and cook 10 min. or till the fat is a nice brown, Place 
on a warm iplatter. 

Drop eggs, one by one, into the fat in the pan. Dip the fat over 
them, and cook until the yolks are set. Put them on the plattei wun 
the 'ham,"and sprinkle with salt' and pepper. If Wm is very salty, soak 
10 min. before cooking. 

Pan-Broiled Bacon. 

Slice bacon very thin and remove rind. Put in a hot frying pan and 
cook until brown, pouring ofJ the fat as it frys. Drain well and serve. 

Sausage in Casings. 

Cover with hot water, simmer S or 10 min. Drain and cook in the 
pan in its own fat until brown and tender. Prick with a fork occasion- 
ally to allow the fat to escape. 

Sausage Meat. 

Shape into round, flat cakes^ and pan broil in their own fat until 
thoroughly cooked and browned. 



LESSON XL 

Oysters. 

The raw oyster is easily digested by the stomach, but the nutritive 
value is not in (proportion to the cost. The natural tint of the oyster is 
gray, white ones being liable to be diseased. The green tinge some- 
times seen is due to vegetable matter in its food and is not harmful. 

Oyster Soup. 

Yi pt. oysters. salt. 

1 pt. milk. pepper. 

1 tbsp. butter. 

Put milk on to boil while you are preparing the oysters. Put oysters 
in a colander and pour over them ^ , c. cold water. Take each oyster 
with fingers, to inake sure that no pipces of shell adhere, and drain. 



18 

Strain liquor and put on stove; as it boils remove scum, and when clear 
add to milk, to which has been added the butter. Season, add oysters, 
and let them simmer until plump and the edges curl. Serve at once. If 
the oysters are cooked too long they become tough and indigestible. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

1 pt. oysters. Va c butter melted. 

4 tbsp. oyster liquor. salt. 

6 tbsp. milk. pepper. 

1 c. crumbs. 

Stir the melted butter into the crumlbs. Put in a baking dish a layer 
of oysters, prepared as for soup, then a layer of crumbs, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and add part of the milk and oyster liquor. Repeat layers, 
covering the top with crumbs. Bake 30 min. in a hot oven. Two layers 
of oysters are sufficient. If more are used, the center layer miay be 
underdone. 

LESSON XII. 

Cream Soups. 

Cream soups and purees are cooked and strained vegetables added 
to strained white sauce. 

Soup. 

Soup is one of the most nutritious articles of food, and its use s^hoiild 
be more general, as it is also a very economical food. Much good food 
that is often thrown away may be used in making soups. There are 
two classes of soups, those with and those -without stock. Stock sooips 
have meat as a basis, and are very nutritious; those without stock are 
made with milk as a foundation. These are often called cream soups, 
are very quickly prepared, and are palatable and nutritious. They must 
be thickened slightly or bound together, or they will separate. 

General Proportions of Ingredients for Cream of Vegetable Soups. 

1 qt. water or milk. 1 to 3 tbsp. flour. 

1 to 2 c. vegetable pulp. - 1 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. butter. pepper to taste. 

General Directions. 

Cook vegetables in water till soft;, press, through a strainer, scald the 
milk, add the pulp and bind with butter and flour. Season, bring to a 
boil and serve. 

Potato Soup. 

1 potato. y, ssp. pepper. 

1 pt. milk. ^ tsp. celery salt. 

1 slice onion. 2 tbsp. butter 

Vz, tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. flour. 

1 stalk celery. 
Wash, pare and soak .potatoes in cold water, put them in boil- 
ing water and cook until very soft. Drain and mash. Cook the onion 



19 

and celery in milk in double boiler and add .potatoes. Rub through a 
strainer and put on to boil again. Bind with butter and flour, season, 
let boil S min. and serve. 

White Sauce. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 c. milk. 

2'tbsp. butter. i/^ ssp. pepper. 

J^tsp. salt. 

Heat milk; rub flour a,nd butter together to form a paste. Add 
enough hot milk to make a liquid. Pour into stew pan, cook till thick, 
season. 

Mock Bisque or Tomato Soup. 

1 can tomatoes. 4 tbsp. flour. 

1 qt. milk. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 ssp. soda. 3 -tbsp. butter. 
1 ssp. pepper. 

Stew tomatoes till soft and add the^ soda. Heat milk in a double 
boiler. Bind with butter and flour and cook 10 min. Add seasoning and 
'tomatoes last as milk cooked with acid is sure to curdle. Serve at once. 

LESSON XIII. 
' • Meat. 

Meat is the name applied to the flesh of all animals used for food. 
The flesh of young animals is more tender but not as nutritious as that 
of older ones. The muscles that are used the most are the toughest but 
contain more nourishment 'as the blood flows more freely through them. 
The object in cooking meat should be to obtain the greatest amount of 
nutriment from all parts of the meat. 

There are three ways of cooking meats in water: First, when all 

the nutriment is to be kept in the meat, as 'in roasts. 'Second, when 

.part of the nourishment is to be in the meat and part in the water, as in 

stews. Third, when all the nutriment is drawn out into the water as in 

soups. 

Stock. 

Stock is the liquid extract of meat and bone. In cooking meat for 
soup, all the nutriment should be drawn ijito the water. Msat is largely 
composed of albumen, and cold water softens the fibers and draws out 
the juices, while hot water coagulates the surfaces exposed. 

To Make Soups: 

Cut the' meat in small pieces to expose all the surface possible, and 
put it into cold water; allowing it to stand, or soak one-half hour before 
'heating it, to draw out the juices; heat gradually and simmer till the 
meat is in shreds, the bones clean, and all the nutriment possible is 
extracted. This will take 6 or 7 hours. The cheaper cuts of meat may 
be used for soups, the shin and rump bone of beef and the knuckle of 
veal. The water in which fresh meats are 'boiled, may be boiled down, 
seasoned and used. 



20 

The cover of the kettle should fit closely to keep in all' the , steam. 
When the meat is in shreds, the soup should be strained, and allowed 
to cool so that the fat may come to the surface in the form of a cake' 
and be removed. The stock may then be heated and served alone, or 
with the addition of other ingredients. 

About two-thirds of the meat should be lean, the other third being 
bone and fat. 

Do not wash, meat ty putting in water to soak, but wash quickly. 

A General Rule for Stock: 

Stock— 2 I'bs. shin of beef, 4 allspice. 

8 peppercorns, . V2 small carrot, 

2 tsp. salt. 6 cloves, 

1 small onion, 1 tsp. mixed herbs, 

2 qts.' cold water, 1 sprig parsley, 

V2. ssip. celery seed,' '' J4 small, turnip. 

Wipe, and cut ,the meat and bone in small pieces. Put into the 
water and soak i.-^ hr. before heating; heat gradually, and let simmer S 
hours. Add vege.tables and seasoning and simmer 1 to 2 hours longer. 
Strain, and cool quickly. When ready for tise, remove all 'fat, heat and 
season to taste. 

Vegetable Soup. 

1 qt. stocky 1 tb'sp. rice, 

J4 potato, - Vi c. celery. 

Yz c. tomato, V2. carrot, 

Vi turnip, Yi c. peas, 

• 1 pt. boil'g water, Y^ c. onion. 

Y2 ear com. 

Cut vegetables selected from list into uniform pieces. Boil carroa 
turnip, rice and celery in water 20 m. Add other vegetables and cook 
until tender. - Add stock, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil up once and 
serve. 

To Clear Soup. 

For each quart of stock allow the white and shell of 1 egg, the rind 
of Yi lemon, J4 ssp. celery seed, and salt to taste. Beat egg slightly, 
add crashed shell, celery seed and salt. Stir into- the cold sitO'Ck. Heat 
to the boiling point, stirring constantly to keep the egg from settling. 
Boil 2 min. and simmer 20. Then strain through double thickness of 
cheese cloth. 



LESSON XIV. 

Beef. 

Beet is the most nutritious and generally used of all the animal 
.foods. It is divided by splitting through the back-ibone into two parts 
each called, a side of teef.. Each side is then divided into a fore and 



21 

Ivind quarter. Good beef shoukbbe bright red in color, firm, fine grained, 
well marbled with fat and with ,a thick layer af fat oh the outside. The 
fat should be a rich cream color, and the suet dry and crumbly. Beef 
should not be eaten as soon as killed, but hang to ripen two or three 
weeks. The best beef is obtained from an animal four or five years 
old. It is in season the year around. 

Beef Chart.- 



1. Rump for corning. 

2. Top-rump used for pot roasts and stews. 

3. Round used for steaks and dried beef. ' 

4. Lower end of round used for hamburg steak. 

5. Shin, used for soup. 

6. Tenderloin, used for steaks. 

7. Sirloin, used for steaks. 

8. Top-sirloin, used for steaks. 

9. Porterhouse, used for steaks. 

10. Plrst cut ribs, prime ribs used for roast. 

11. Second cut' ribs, prime ribs used for roast. 

12. Third cut ribs, used .for roast. ,;. 

13. Fourth cut or chuck ribs, used for ro.asts. 

14. Cross ribs, used for roasts and stews. 
T5. Chuck, used for steak. 

16. Flank, used 'for steak. 

17. Flanks, used for corning and stewing. 

18. Plate, used for corning and stewing. 

19. Navel, used for corning and stewing. 

20. 'Shoulder, used for steak and roast. 



22 , 

21. Neck, used for mince-meat. 

22. Brisket, used for corning. 

23. Fore-sliin, used for soup. 

Other Parts of Beef Used as Food. 

Brain, used for croquettes. 

Tongue, used for boiling (smoked or fresh). 

Heart, to be stuffed and baked. 

Liver to be sauted. 

Tripe, (fourth stomach) to be pickled or sauted. fresh. 

Suet, to be used for puddings and mince-meat. 

Tail, to be used for soup. 

Pot Roast. 

Sear the cut sides of the meat in a hot kettle., add 1 c. of hot water, 
season with salt and pepper aAd keep just below the boiling point. Add 
wiater only as necessary to keep from burning. Coyer closely and cook 
until very tender or from two to three hours. Remove meat and make 
a gravy in the kettle. 

Gravy. 

Pfaur off all but 3 tbsp. of fat from, the kettle. Add 3 tbsp. of flour 
and stir till brown. Add. slowly 1^ c. boiling water., Cook until thick 
and stnqoth. Season with salt and pepper. 

Cottage Pie. 

Chop cold meat fine. To every cupful of meat add J4 c. of gravy or 
stock, season highly with salt and pepper and J4ssp. summer savory. ' 
fvit into a baking dish and cover with a crust of mashed potatoes. 
Bake 20 min. or until brown. Serve in the dish in which it is baked. 

Hash. 

1 pt. meat. 2 tbsp. butter or' drippings, 

1 pt. boiled potatoes. Salt and pepper to taste, 

54 ■ small onion, 1 scant c. water. 

Remove jA bones, gristle, etc., from the meat. Put water in the 
fryingnpan and add butter or drippings. When melted, add hash, and 
let simmer until the water is absorbed. Serve hot. 



LESSON XV. 

Veal. 

Veal is the meat, of a calf from six to eight weeks old. It may be 
obtained throughout the year but is better in the spring. The best 
veal is pale pink or flesh color with clear white fat. White veal or that 
from a calf less than six weeks old is unfit to eat. Veal has but little 



23 

juice, flavor or nutriment and should be thorouglily cooked as it is not 
wholesome when underdone. Veal should be eaten soon after it is 
killed and dressed. It is lacking in fat, 'therefore some form of fat 
should be used in cooking. 

Veal Chart. 



1. Leg, used for soup and stews. 

2. Cutlets, used for steaks. 

3. Thick end of loin, used for steak and chops. ' 

4. Loin, used' for chops and roasts. 

5. Breast, used for stews and roasts. 

6. Shoulder, used for stews. 

7. Neck, lused for stews, 

8. Sweet breads, used for salads and to saute. ' 

9. Head, used for soup. 

10. Knuckle, used for soups and stews. 

11. Ribs, used for chops and roasts. 

Veal Stew. 

2 lbs. veal, ■ 2 tbsp. salt. 

1 onion, sliced, 1 ssp. pepper, 

4 small potatoes. Boiling water to -cover. 

Rinse meat quickly and cut in pieces, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and cover with boiling water. Boil S min., and simmer until the meat 
is tender or about 3 hrs. At the end of 2 hrs. add the vegetables. Just 
before serving thicken the gravy with 2 tbsp. flour wet in 2 tbsp. cold 
water. Dumplings may be added 10 min. before the stew is done. 



24' 

Dumplings. 

1 pt. flour, ' 4 tsp.' baking powder. 

V2 tsp. salt, 1 scant c. milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in the milk gradually to make a, soft dough. 
Drop quickly by the spoonful into the boiling stew letting them rest 
on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and 'boil 
just 10 min. without lifting the cover. 

LESSON XVI. 
Mutton. 

Mutton comes from sheep three years' old and should han'g from 
two to three weeks after killing, to ripen, while lamb may be eaten soon 
after it is killed. Good mutton is fine grained and of a pink color and 
the fat is white, hard and flaky. If 'the skin comes ofif easily the mutton 
is sure ,to be good. Mutton ranks next to beef in nutrition and the 
broth is especially good for invalids. 

Lamb is the name given to the meat of lambs. It should be eaten 
soon after it is killed. It may be obtained as early as February, but is 
scarce until March. When it is killed from 6 weeks to 3 months old, 
it is called spring lamb; when 1 year old, a yearling. The flesh should 
be a lighter red than that of mutton and the bones red. 

No cold meat should be thrown away after a meal, as it may 'be used 
in making many palatable and nutritious dishes. It should be kept in a 
cold place. It may also be combined with scraps of vegetables. 

Mutton Chart. 



1. Leg. used for roast?. 4. Shoulder, used for stews. 

2. Lorn, used for steak. 5. Neck, uSed f6r stews. 

3. Ribs, used for chops. 6. Breast, used for stews. 



25 

Braised Mutton. 

Wash quickly, put in a baking pan, either whole or cut in small 
pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Put in a hot oven. After 
the flour begins to brown, add just enough water to cover the bottom 
of the pan. Cover tightly. B.aste every IS min. till done. Cook 12 to' 
18 min. to the pound. 

Minced Mutton on Toast. 

Chop mutton fine. P;it 1 c. meat in a pan with V^ c. cold water and 
let simmer. Thicken with 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour rubbed to- 
gether. Season with salt and pepper and add Yz tsp. minced onion. 
Serve on toast. 



LESSON XVII. 

Starch — Potatoes. 

Starch is one of the food principles, and is found in most of ouri foods 
to a greater or less degree. It is a fine white powder, 'soluble in cold 
water, but insoluble in boiling water. These little grains are wrapped 
up in a cover of insoluble, indigestible cellulose, and unless this is 
broken by heat, starch is indigestible, hence the necessity of thoroughly 
cooking all iStarchy food. 

When boiling water is poured upon dry starch, lumps form, because 
the starch first touched by the hot water, swells suddenly, forming a 
sticky envelope around the rest of the starch,, thus leaving the center of 
the lump uncooked. On account of the bursting of its .cells by heat, 
starch may be used to thicken gravies and sauces. 

Diflerent food stuffs nourish dififerenit parts of the body. Starch" 
produces heat, fat and energy but does not build tissue. 

Potatoes are tubers or the thickened, underground stems oif a plant. 
They are planted from cuttinigs, each piece containing two or more eyes. 
Potatoes are three-fourths water, the solid matter being starch with a 
small amount of albumen and minenal matter. 

They are indigestible when raw, on account o.f the starch they con- 
tain. Next the skin is an acrid juice, drawn out in cooking. New po- 
tatoes, unless perfectly ripe, contain little starch and are unwholesome. 
Late in the fall they are at their best, but in the spring the starch 
changes as they sprout, making them ;gtimmy and soggy. Potatoes 
furnish needed bulk in our food rather than much nutriment^ being a 
heat giving and fat forming food, hence should be eaten with meat, eggs, 
fish, etc. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Wash, scrub, pare potatoes and put in cold water. Drop in boiling 
salted water and cook till a fork will pierce them, about 30 min. Drain 
ofl every drop of water and put uncovered on back of stove, shaking 
gently to make them mealy, and allow steam to escape. 



26 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash the potatoes in the kettle in which they were boiled, using a 
wire masher. To 1 pt. potatoes add 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. salt, a httle 
pepper and hot milk to moisten. Beat till light and creamy and free 
from lumps. Put lightly into a hot dish and serve. 

Mashed Potato Cakes. 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small round cakes. Put on a tin 
pan, brush with milk and bake till a golden brown or saute in lard. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of uniform size, wash and scrub well. Bake in a 
hot oven SO min. or till soft. 



LESSON XVIII. 

Potatoes — Continued. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

1 pt. of cold boiled potatoes. Itbsp. jninced onion. 

Yi tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

J4 ssp. 'pepper. 2 tbsp. drippings or butter. 

Cut potatoes into small cubes and season with salt and pepper. 
Fry the onion in the drippings till a light brown, and add potatoes. 
Stir with a fork until brown, add parsley and serve. 1 tbsp. of vinegar 
may be added. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes. 2 tbsp. butter. 

Yi c. milk. Y2 tsp. salt. 

spk. pepper. 1 tsp. chopped parsley. 

Cut potatoes into small cubes. Heat milk and add potatoes and 
seasoning. Simmer slowly until milk is absorbed, add parsley and serve. 

To Chop Parsley. 

Remove leaves, .from stems of parsley and dry on a towel. Gather 
closely 'between thumb and fingers and cut through. Hold the point 
of the knife on the board and with a circular motion mince the parsley 
fine. 

To Mince Onion. 

Remove covering from the onion about half way down. Score 
across the top about Y^ in- apart; score again in opposite direction and 
tlien slice across the onion. 



27 

LESSON XIX. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables. 

^orn • Husk, but do not wash. S to 10 min. 

Peas Sheli and wash quickly. IS to 20 min. 

Asparagus Wash, break off tough ends, and tie in 

bunches or break into inch pieces. IS to' 20 min. 

Potatoes Scrub and pare when necessary. ' 20 to 30 min. 

Spinach Pick over and wash in several waters._ 20 to 30 min. 

Cabbage Trim and soak, top down, in cold 

water, to draw out insects. 30 to 4S min. 

Cauliflower Same as cabbage. 30 to 45 min. 

Parsnips Scrub until white and trini off fine 

roots. 30 to 45 min. 

Carrots Scrub and scrape off the thin outer 

surface. , ■ 30 to 45 min. 

Turnips Scrub, slice, if not to be diced, and 

pare. 30 to 45 min. 

Beets ~Wash carefully, for if the skin 'be 

broken, the sugary juices will escape. 1 hr. or 

Leave on 1 inch oi the stem. till tender. 

Onions Peel under water. 30 to 45 min. 

Beans Shell and wash quickly. 45 to 60 min. 

String. Beans Wash,' strip off the ends and strings 
on each side. Cut or break into 
smiall pieces. , ' 45 to 60 min. 

Soft. Shelled Wash, pare and cut as desired. 45 min. or 

S'quash till tender. 

Hard .'^helled Wash, split and cook in the shell 45 min. or 

Squash till tender. 

Celery Wash and scrape off rusty .portions. 1 hr. 



Turnips and Cabbage. 

/• 

These two vegetables, though not at all alike in 'form and manner of 
growth, are much ali'ke in composition, food value and taste. Of the two 
the cabbage is the more nutritious. They both contain a large amount 
of water, and should be carefully cooked and well drained. 

Turnips contain no starch, but instead a gelatinous substance called 
pectine. They are at their best in the fall and winter. Towards spring 
they become tough and fibrous, and are only fit to flavor stewS, etc. 
The rutabagO', the French turnip, and the s.mall flat purple top are the 
best. 

Cabbage is the leaf of the plant which grows in clusters tightly folded 
together. The sound, solid beads are the test. A little soda should be 
added vwbile cooking, and the water drained off once at least, as this 
method removes the sharp mustard taste caused by sulphur compounds. 



28 

It contains a quantity of gluten, hence its nutrition. Both of these 
vegetables are used more to make a variety in bur daily food than- for 
their nutritive value. ^ 

White Sauce. 

1 i. milk. 2 ,tbsp.- butter. 

2 tbsp. flour. J4 tsp. salt. • 

pepper to taste. 

Heat milk. ^Nlix flour with 3 tbsp. cold water •until sinooth. Pour 
into hot milk and cook till it thickens, stirring constantly. Add. butter 
and seasoning. 

Turnips in White Sauce. 

Wash and pare turnips. Cut into small cubes and cook in boiling' 
salted water until very tender, about 30 min. Drain well and pour over 
them 1 c. of white sauce for every pt. of turnips. Other vegetables, such 
as carrots or parsnips or vegetiable oysters, may be treated in the same 
way. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Remove outer leaves and soak in cold water with the head down, to 
draw out insects. Cut into q.uarters or slice fine, put into a kettle of boil- 
ing water with J4'tsp. of soda. Boil 20 min'. uncovered'. Draitiiand cover 
again with boiling water. Boil 20 min. longer or until tender, drain .and 
season with salt and pepper and S^ c. oif heated vinegar, or instead, milk 
enough to barely cover. 

Scalloped Cabbage. 

Chop cold boiled cabbage fine. Put a layer in 'baking dish, sprinkle 
with s.alt and pepper and pour over it a layer oif white sauce. Rep'e'at 
until the dish is full, having sauce for the top layer. Cover 'the top 
with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

LESSON XX. 
Salads. 

The food value of green salad is not very high ^yt tlie salts it sup- 
plies make it very wholesome. The oil or butter used in. dressing fur- 
nish fat in a digestible form and when fish, meat, eggs or cooked, vege- 
•tables are used, served with a cooked or mayonmaise dressing it contains 
a great deal of, nourishment. 

Salads should be served very cold and mixed with a fork. 

Cooked Salad Dressing. 

2 whole eggs or 4 yolks. 1 tsp. salt. 

Ys c. vinegar. spl^ of cayenne pepper. 

2 tbsp. butter. .^^ tsp. mustard. 

Beat eggs slightly. Add vinegar and cook over hot water till thick- 
Remove from fire add butter and seasoning. When ready to use, if too 
thick, it may be thinned with cream. 



29 

Potato Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in'cuibes, siprinkle lightly with salt. If liked, 
add one-half the amouiit of celery, cut in cubes. Add 1 tbsp. minced 
onion to every pint of potatoes. Moisten with salad dressing. -Mix 
liglitly and put ■ on lettuce leaves, or put in a bowl and garnish with 
celery leaves. 

Hard boiled eggs cut in slices may be added. 



LESSON XXI. 
Cereals. 

Cereals or grains are .grasses, the seeds of which are used for foods. 
Being composed mostly of starch, they must be cooked in several 
times their bulk in water, that the starch; cells may all burst and be 
thoroughly cooked. Th?^ are the, most impo'rtant of all vegetable food. 

Of all the grains, oats are the most nutritious. They contain food for 
muscle .and brain, but on account of indigestible fiber, should be used 
only by strong, hard working people. 

Rice is the seed of a grass. Alone it is not a perfect food, being 
mostly starch and lacking fat. It is a good substitute for potatoes. In 
good rice the graiiis are yellowish white and whole, with little starch 
dust on them. 

Cornmeal is valuable for a winter food, as it contains fat and starch, 
two fuel foods. For the amount of money spent, cornmeal contains 
more nourishment, than any other grain. 

To keep fine granulated cereal from lumping, mix with cold water 
before putting in boiling water. 

Cornmeal Mush. 

To 4 cups boiling water, add 1 tsp salt and 1 cup cornTneal wet in 
cold water. Cook slowly from 1 to ' 2 hrs. ■ Serve hot with milk and , 
sugar. Pack what is left over in a greased baking powder can or 
small bread' pan. Neict morning remove fro.m mould, slice and saute 
in hot fat. 

Rolled Oats. 

2 c, boiling water. Y2 tsp. salt. 

1 c. Avena. 

Put boiling water in the top of double boiler, add salt. Stir in Avena 
and cook J^ hr. without stirring. 

Steamed Rice. 

2 c. boiling water or milk: 1 tsp. salt. 
1 c. rice. 

Wash rice. Put boiling water and, salt in top of double boiler. 

^'\dd rice and steam 1 hr, Do not stir. 



:iO 



Cream of Wheat. 



3c. boiling water. 1 tsp. salt. 

1/2 c. Cream of Wheat. ' 

Put boiling water in top of double iboiler. Add salt and Cream of 

Wheat wet in cold water. Steam 20 to 30 minutes. 



LESSON XXII. 

Cheese. 

Cheese is the curd of milk, drained, salted and pressed. Skimmed 
milk cheese does not contain as much fait as cheese made from full milk,: 
and therefore is not as nourishing. Lard or some cheap tfat is often, 
added to supply the lack of natural fat. Such cheese is greasy when 
warm, has little flavor and does not ikeep well. Cheese, like eggs, 
contain much n'oiirishment in- small bulk. Q^ese is a good substitute 
for meat, and in combination with maoaroni, rice or potatoes may be 
used in its place. Cheese is hard to digest and should not be used by 
persons of weak digestion or children. For those engaged in physical' 
labor, it is one of the best of (foods. 

Macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli and other Italian pastes are made- 
froTn a hard wheat flour mixed with water and pressed' into the different 
shapes. Macaroni is very nutritious, but heing deficient in fat, is best 
when combined with cheese or milk. It contains so much gluten, that it 
is about equal to meat in nutrition. Good macaroni is yellowish in color 
and rough in texture. It breaks cleanly without splitting, in boiling 
water swells to doubfe its. hulk and neither" becomes pastry nor loses its 
shape. Excellent macaroni is now made in the United States, and is. 
much cleaner than that imported. 

Macaroni and Cheese. . 

Break macaroni in 3 in. sticks and cook till tender in boiling salted" 
water about 2S min. Drain. But a layer of macaroni in a baking dish,, 
then a layer of cheese and season well with salt and pepper. Repeat 
until dish is full. Barely cover, with mihk and bake until brown and 
milk is absorbed. 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce. 

Cook macaroni till tender in boiling salted water ahout 45 min. 
Drain. Reheat in tomato sauce and serve. 

Tomato Sauce. 

1 pt. tomatoes. Slice of onion and bay leaf. 

4 tbsp. flour. Salt and pepper. 

4 tbsp. buitter. 

Stew tomatoes with onion and bay leaf till tender. Strain. Thicken-, 
with flour and butter as for white, sauce. Season. 



31 

Rice and Cheese. 

Yi c. boiled rice. 2tbsp. cheese. • 

Vz c. cream or white sauce. 

Make sauce, add rice and cheese, grated or cut in small pieces. 
Pour into bakinig dish, S'prinkle with bread crumbs and bake about 
15 min. or until thoroughly heated and cheese is melted. 



LESSON XXIII. 

For quick bread see Lesson 20, second year. 
Bread. 

Bread is a, form of food made from the flour of wheat and other 
cereals, 'by the addition of water or milk, salt and a ferment. A 
ferment is that which causes fermentation, and fermentation is the 
change which takes place in all organic substances, during which the 
sugar, starch and albumen are decomposed and recombined into new 
compounds. Alcoholic fermentation is the change which takes place in 
bread making when yeast is added; the starch is chaniged to sugar and 
the sugar to canbonic acid gas and alcohol. 

A perfect loaf of bread is regular in shape, has a crisp -crust, evenly 
browned and is tender but firm. It tastes sweet and nutty, smells fresh 
and will keep moist for several days. 

1 qt. boiling water. 3 small potatoes. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 
2 tbsp. lard. 1 c. lu'ke warm water. 

2 tbsp. salt. , Flour. 

Boil and mash potatoes. Add 'salt, land and boiling water. When 
lukewarm, _add yeast, and flour, to 'make a spotige. Let rise pver night. 
In the morning add sugar and flour to make a soft dough. Turn on a 
well floured board and knead lightly- 20 min. Put into a greased bowl. 
Grease the top to prevent a hard crust from foriming. Cover closely. 
Liet rise till it doubles in size. Knead and shape into Joaves' or rolls. 
Let loaves rise in the pan Yi to Y^ hr. and bake 40 tO' 60 min. Rolls 
■should rise in the pan ft-om 1 to lyi hrs. and bake in a hot oven 20 min. 



LESSON XXIV. 
Yeast. 

Yeast is a mass of very small plints each a rounded cell, consisting 
of a sack filled with a watery substance and joined not unlike the links of 
a chain. The germs of these .filants are found floating in the air and on 
the skins of grapes. They grow with great rapidity when supplied with 
warmth, moisture and some sugary substance for nourishment. 

In growing, yeast changes the sugar in the substance in which it 
grows to an acid or acid gas and alcohol. This process is called 
fermentation. Yeast is killed at a temperature of 212 degrees F. It is not 
killed at 32 degrees but will not grow. The best temperature for the 



32 

growth of the plant is from 75 to 80 degrees, but it must be kept from 
sudden changes of air, or the growth will be very slow. 

The process of fermentation has three forms. When the acid formed 
' is lactic acid, as it is in the souring of milk, the fermentation is called 
lactic fermentation. When the acid formed is carbonic acid gas, as in 
bread making, the fermentation, is called alcoholic fermentation. When 
the acid formed is acetic acid, as in the changing of cider tO' vinegar, the 
fermemtation is called acetic fermentation. 

When bread is allowed to ri^e too long, the alcoholic fermentation 
is changed to acetic land the bread sours. It is then 'Unfit for use. There 
are three kinds of yeast used for raising bread — liquid, compressed and 
dry. 

Parker House Rolls. 

1 pt. milk. 1 fbsp. sugar. 

1 tbsp. butter. }4 cake yeast dissolved in J4 c water. 

1 tsp. salt. Flour. 

Scald milk. Add butter,- sugar and salt — when lukewarm, add .yeast 
and flour to make a soft dough.- Knead 20 minutes. Let rise till it 
doubles in size. Shape into rolls; let rise 1 to 1'54 hours. Bake in a 
quick oven 20 minutes. Brush with milk or butter. 

To Shape Rolls. 

Roll dough 54 inches thick; cut with a cooky cutter. Crease in the 
center with the handle of a knife dipped in flour. Brush one-'half with 
melted butter. Fold, place in pans about Yi inch apart. 

Baki^g of Bread. 

The oven should turn a piece of white paper a dark ,brown in five 
minutes. The heat should increase slightly the first ten minutes, and 
gradually decrease till the end of the baking. Bread is done when it 
will give a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom. When the loaf 
comes from the oven place it where the air can circulate freely around it. 
When cold, put in a clean, sweet, 'bread box, without any wrapping, as 
the cloth may give it a musty flavor. 

There are four reasons for baking bread: First, to kill the yeast 
plant, second, to make the starch digestible, third, to drive off the car- 
bonic acid gas and alcohol, fourth, to form a brown crust. 

LESSON XXV. 
Wheat Flour. 

Flours are made by grinding^ the grains of various cereals, wheat, 
rye, barley, oats, maize, millet, rice, etc. Of these, ,wheat is the most 
important, .partly because it can be cultivated iix any temperate, climate, 
but chiefly because it is the only grain that contains gluten in the right 
proportion to make a light, spongy loaf of bread. 

The wheat grain is a small, oval seed, which can be easily threshed 
from the stalk on which it grows. Its six outer layers are known as 
bran; of these the three outer form what is called the skin of the <^rainr 
the three remaining form the envelope of the Seed proper, in whTch is 
found the gluten. 



33 

Different kinds of wheat vary as to the amount of igluten they con- 
tain. There are two kinds of wheait used to make flour — spring wheat 
(containing the most gluten) from which bread flour is made, and winter 
wheat, from which pastry flour is made. 

Wheat contains all the elements necessary for the support of life, 
but not in the right proportion. It is deficient in fat and water. The 
gluten of wheat is a tough, elastic substance, consisting of vegetable 
fibres. It has a peculiar power of .holding the gas that has formed during 
fermentation. It is insoluble in water, tut will swell to four or five 
times its original bulk. 

Entire or whole wheat flour is made by grinding all parts of the 
kernel of wheat except the bran and germ. Thus none of the nutritive 
parts are lost. Graham flour is finely ground, but unbolted, wheat flour. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

1 pt. milk. 1 tsp salt. 

1 pt. boiling water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in l4c water. 

2 tbps sugar. 

Put milk, salt and sugar in a 'bowl and pour over them the boiling 
water. When lukewarm, add yeast and entire wheat flour to make a 
drop batter. Beat thoroughly, cover and stand in a warm place from 2j4 
to 3 hours, or over night. Add flour to make a dough. Knead lightly 
until it loses its stickiness, about 10 minutes. Make at once into, loaves, 
put into greased pans, cover and let stand in a warm place 1 hr, or until 
light. Bake 45 minutes in a hot oven. 



LESSON XXVI. 
Griddle Cakes. 

The griddle for baking cakes should be clean and smooth. 
Never allow the fat to collect and burn around the edges of the griddle. 

Grease griddle with lard, pork find or drippings. If lard or drippings 
are used, apply with a cloth, wound around a fork. Wipe griddle with a 
soft paper before • washing. Drop cakes from end of spoon to make 
them round. If large bubbles rise at once to the top of cakes, the grid- 
dle is too hot. If the top of the cake stiffens before the underside Is 
brown, the griddle is not hot enough. 

Never turn a cake buL once. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. 

1 pt. flour. 1 scant pt. thick sour milk. 

Yi tsp. salt. 2 eggs well teaten. 

1 tsp. soda. 

-Mix and sift soda, salt and flour,, add sour milk and beaten yolks. 
Fold in beaten whites and bake on a hot greased griddle. 



34 

Corn Meal Cakes. 

1 c cornirieal. 2 c boiling water 

VA c flou.- ^Va c milk 

6 tsp. baking powder. 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt. 2 tbsp melted butter 

Add meal to boiling water and boil five minutes. Turn into a bowl, 
add milk and remaining mixed dry ingredients. Add beaten egg and 
butter. Bake on hot greased griddle. 

LESSON XXVII. 
Proportions of Acids and Alkalies. 

Two level tsp. baking powder for each cup of flour; 1 level tsp soda 
to 1 pt.- thick sour milk; 1 level tsp. soda to 1 c. molasses batter; l/i tsp. 
soda to 1 c. of molasses for a stiff dough; 1 tsp. soda and 2 of cream 
tartar to 1 qt. flour. 

In general a cake should contain not more than J^ to J^ as much 
butter as sugar and about half as much liquid as flour. Remember that 
butter or other shortening counts as liquid, since it melts in the oven. 
Sour milk or molasses do not thin a mixture as much as sweet milk or 
water. A cake w'ith fruit should be a little stiff er than one -without. 
The more eggs there are in a cake the less baking powder is needed.. 
Cake containing molasses burns easily. 'Bake such cake or any thick, 
loaf requiring long baking, in tins lined with greased paper. 

Gingerbread. 

1 c molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 1 c hot water 

Yi c sugar 1 tsp. cloves _ 2}/i c flour 

^2 c shortening pinch sialt ' 2 eggs 

1 tsp. ginger 1 tsp. soda 

Mix in order given, and bake in a moderate oven }{ hr. 

LESSON XXVIIL 
Baking Powder. 

Baking powder is composed of soda, 30 per cent., cream of tartar, 60 
per cent., and 10 per cent, of rice flour. Soda is an alkali, and is made 
from common salt. Cream of tartar is an acid su'bstance, obtained from 
argols found in the bottom and sides of wine casks. When an' .acid and 
an alkali are unite"d in proper proportions and moistened, carbonic acid 
gas is formed. This gas, seeking to escape, lightens the dough; hence 
baking powder mixtures should be baked as soon as possible after mixing.. 

Cheap baking powders are adulterated with alum, and alum is in- 
jurious. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

2 c flour 2 tbsp lard 

4 tsp. bakmg powder 1 scant c milk 

1 tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients. Cut in lard with knife or mix with fingers. 
A'dd milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixing with a knife. Turn on a 
floured board. Roll to '^ inch thickness. Cut and bake in hot oven 
about IS minutes. 



35 

LESSON XXIX. 

Batters and Doughs. 

Notes. 

Quick 'bread mixtures are either batters or doughs. Batter means 
thiat which can be beaten, and dough means that which is mixed Rtitl 
enough to be molded. A thin batter is made in the proportion of 1 c. 
liquid to 1 c. flour. A stiff or drop batter is made in the proportion of 1 
c. liquid to 2 c. flour. A dough is 1 c. liquid to. about 3 c. flour. For a 
soft dough a little less flour is used and a stiff dough a little more. A 
sponge is a drop batter to which yeast is added. No bread should be' 
eaten steaming hot because in this state the inside part or crumb forms 
in the mouth a pasty ixiass not easily digested. 

One-Kgg Muffins. 

2 c flour 1 c milk 

4 tsp baking powder 1 egg 

V2 tsp salt 2 tfbsp melted butter 

2 tbsip. sugar 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Bake 
in hot greased mufiin pans about 25 minutes. 

Entire Wheat Muffins. 

1^ c entire wheat or graham flour 1 c milk 

Va, c flour. ' 1 tsp salt 

2 tbsp sugar ' 1 egg 

4 tsp baking powder 1 tbsp melted butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Bake 
in hot greiased muffin pans about 2S minutes. 



LESSON XXX. 
Corn Bread. 

1 c corn meal ^ 54 c sugar 

1 c flour 2 eggs 

J4 tsp salt 1 c milk 

4 tsp baking powder 1 tbsp melted butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and butter. Beat well 
and bake in a shallow greased pan in a quick oven from 20 to 30 min. 

Com Muffins. 

Vi, c corn meal 1 tbsp sugar 

i c flour 1 c milk 

3 tsp baking powder 1 egg 

Vi tsp salt 1 tbsp melted butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and butter. Bake in hot 

greased muffin pans about 25 minutes. 



36 

Qottag^Puddjng. 

1 egg 2 c flour 

Ji c sugar 4 tsp baking powder 

3 thsp melted butter J'aHtp salt 

1 c milk 

Beat egg, add sugar, melted butter and milk, then flour mixed with 

salt and baking powder. Beat and bake in a ^hallow greased pan and' 
serve with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Snow Balls. 

3 eggs rind and juice 1 lemon 

1 c soigar 1 c flour 

3 tbs'p water , 1 tsp baking powder 

Beat yolks, add sugar, lemoH rind, and juice and water^ then flour ■ 
mixed with baking powder. Fold in beaten whites and steam in 'buttered 
cup Yi hour and serve with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. 

2 c hot water grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

1 c sugar 1 tbsp butter 

2 tbsp corn starch 

Mix sugar and cornstarch and pour over them, the boiling watc". 
Cook S to 10 minutes, remove 'from fire and add the lemon rind, juice 
and butter. Stir till butter is melted and serve. 



LESSON xxxn. 

Cakes. 

There are two classes of cakes, those with butter or cup cake and 
those without butter, or sponge cake. 

To Mix Butter Cakes. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then beaten yolks and flavoring. 
Add liquid and flour mixed with baking powder, alternately. Beat well, 
as cake is made fine grained byteating. Lastly fold in beating whites. 
Never stir or beat after the whites are put in. 

To Bake Butter Cakes. 

The oven should l)e hot enough to turn a piece of white paper dark 
brown m five minates. The time for baking should be divided into quar-' 
lers ^i£gi. begm to rise; second, continue to rise'and begin to brown; 
third, brown all over; fourth, finish baking. The cake is done when it 
shrmKS from edge of the pan and when a doubled straw, put carefully in 
the center, comes out clean. 



37 

Filling the Pafts.' 

Grease pan and paper if tised with lard. Pour in the mixture and let 
it run well into the corners of the pan. Have pan about ^^-full. With 
the back of the spoon make a slight depression in the center, so the cake 
will be perfectly fl&t on top when baked. 

One Egg Cake. 

?/2 c butter 1 c milk 

1 c sugar 2 c flour 

1 egg _ V 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, yolk of egg ^nd flavoring; then 
milk and flour mixed with baking powder, alternately. Beat well, fold in 
beaten white and bake in a greased pan 30 to 40 minutes. 



LESSON XXXIII. 
To Mix Cakes. 

In mixing cake' the best ingredients should be used, the measuring' 
should 'be accurate, the ingredients be comibtned in the proper order and 
the oven heated to the right temperature when cake is mixed. 

Winter wheat flour should be used, and powdered or fine granulated 
sugar, as course sugar makes a grained' and sticky cake. 

Cookies and small cakes need a hotter oven than loaf cake. 

Cup Cake. 

Yz c butter -1' c milk 

2 c sugar Zy^ c flour 

4 eggs 4 tsp baking powder 

J4 tsp mace 

Cream butter, add s'ugar. Then add eggs well .beaten, milk and flour 
mixed with baking powder and mace. Bake in individual tins; 

LESSON XXXIV. 
Oatmeal Cookies. 

J4 c shortening 2 c flour 

1 c sugar f4 tsp soda 

2 eggs . 1 tsp cinnamon 
4 tbsp milk -A tsp salt 

2 c rolled oats 2 c raisins* 

Mix in order given. Drop by teaspoonfjl on greased tin and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



LESSON XXXV. 

Wash strawberries before hulling. Peaches, oranges and red rasp- 
berries may also be used for short cake. 



38 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

2 c flour ^'^'pK*! 

4 .tsp baking powder 2 tbsp butter 

J4 tsp salt 1 scant c milk 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit, roll Ya inches thick and bake m a 
quick oven. Split carefully with a thread or hot knife and spread with , 
butter. Sweeten strawberries to taste, crush slightly and put them be- 
tween and on top of the cake. 



LESSON XXXVI. 

Spring Vegetables — Asparagus. 

Wash, cut off tough ends, tie in bunches or break in inch pieces. 
Cook in boiling, saltecf water about 20 minutes or until soft. Drain, re- 
move strings, lay on toast with heads all one way. Pour over it a white 
sauce, or melted butter. 

String Beans. 

Remove strings by cutting a thin strip from each end. Break in inch 
pieces and cook in boiling water until tender; iif very young >^ hour; if 
very old, from 1 to 3 hours. Add salt to water the last 20 minutes of 
cooking. Drain; cover with milk, thicken with butter and flour in pro- 
portion of 2 tbsp butter and 2 tbsp flour to 1 pt milk. Season to taste. 



LESSON XXXVII. 
Freezing. 

When ice and salt are mixed, a double action takes place. The salt 
m'akes the ice melt and the melting ice dissolves the salt. Heat is used 
up in chamging matter from the solid to the liquid form, therefore melt- 
ing ice' and salt reach a temperature below the freezing point of water. 
If packed' around some other liquid, they draw the heat from it so fast 
that it freezes. This is why a mixture of salt and ice is used to freeze 
ice cream. i 

io pack the freezer. Adjust can before starting to pack. Put the 

'ice into a strong canvas bag and pound very fine. Use rock salt; fine 

salt will not answer the purpose. Fill space between can and pail with 

alternate layers of ice and salt, using three measures of ice and one of 

salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little above the height at which the 
cream will stand in the can. Pack ice and salt solidly, turning crank a 
few times to let the mixture settle. Turn the crank slowly and steadily 
for twenty minutes, to freeze. The frozen mixture should' stand about 
one hour to ripen. 



39 

Pineapple Ice. 

1 pt pineapple White of 1 egg 

4 c water juice of 1 lemon 

2 c sugar 

Make a syiHap of water and sugar, add pineapple and lemon juice. 
When cool put in can of freezer and when partly frozen add beated 

white of egg. Continue freezing until stiff. Let stand 1 or 2 hours to 

ripen. 

Lemon Ice, 

4 c water ^i c lemon juice 

2 c sugar rind of 2 lemons 

Boil sugar and water for 20 minoites. Add lemon juice and rind, 
cool, strain if desired and freeze. 

Other fruits may be used allowing equal quantities of juice and 
water. 



SECOND YEAR COURSE 
IN COOKING. 



43 



SECOND YEAR COURSE. 



LESSON I. 



Canning is the process of preserving fruit from germs which would 
cause it to ferment and decay. 

General Rule for Canning Fruit. 

Allow from Y^ to J^ lb. of sugar to, every pound of fruit, and from 2 
to 2y2 c of water to every pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and water 10 
mmutes, add fruit and cook until tender. Place the sterilized jars on a 
wet cloth, fill with, fruit land overflow with syrup, force out all air bub- 
bles, adjust sterilized rubbers and covers. 

To Sterilize Jars and Rubbers. 

Fill jars with cold water and place on a trivet in a kettle of cold 
water; also the covers. Bring to the boiling point. Empty and fill while 
hot. Dip rubbers in -boiling water before using. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over tomatoes. Remove the skins and hard, 
•green stems, put in a granite kettle and boil twenty minutes, skimming 
often during the cooking. Fill sterilized jars. Dark jars are better for 
tomatoes than clear ones. 



LESSON IL 
Sugar. 

The sugar in general use is made from the juice of a tropical plant, 
called sugar cane, and from sugar beets. Natural sugar is also found in 
the sap of the maple tree and in honey. 

It is a very necessary article of food, if taken in small quantities. It 
produces heat and energy in the body. Children, being more active than 
grown people, crave more sweets. If heated to 365 degrees F., sugar 
becomes a colorless liquid called barley sugar. At 420 degrees, the sugar 
turns brown and is called caramel. If heated still further its oxygen and 
hydrogen -gradually pass off as steam, leaving only a black carbon, one- 
fourth of the weight of the original sugar. 

Sugar is heated to different degrees for different things. For some it 
is boiled till a drop let fall from a spoon spins itself into a fine thread; 
for some to the soft ball stage, when a little dropped into cold water can 
T)e rolled into a soft ball between the fingers; for others, till it makes a 
hard ball in cold water. When it 'becomes brittle upon being dropped 
into cold wiater, it is the next degree. 



44 

Caramel Syrup. 

1 c sugar - -l c'boiling water 

Melt sugar until (brown, stirring constantly to avoid burning, adl 
water and simmer 10 minutes. 

Pectin. 

The juice of fruits that contain considerable pectin, a substance sim- 
ilar to gelatin, can be made into jelly. Pectin dissolves in boiling water 
and stiffins upon cooling. It is most abundant in- the harder parts of 
fruits, the core and the skin. Apples, quinces, crab apples, currants and 
grapes make the best jellies. 

Jelly must be covered to protect it from mold. Pafaffihe is conven- 
ient for this purpose. 

Rule for Jelly. 

If the fruit is juicy, mash and boil until tender. For those that have 
not enough juice of their own, add water to cover the bottom oi the 
kettle. Bring to a boil and, strain through a jelly (bag made of flannel 
if possible, without squeezing it. To this juice add an equal quantity of 
sugar and boil about five minutes, or until it jellies. Test it by putting 
a spoonful in a saucer and letting it cool. If it thickens slightly and a 
film forms on top, it is done. If not, boil a few minutes longer. Remove 
from the fire and pour into sterilized jelly glasses and when cold, cover 
with melted paraffine and cover. 

LESSON III. ' 

For notes see lessons 4 and 11, First Year. 

White Sauce. 

2 tbsp butter 1 c milk 

2 tbsp flour salt and pepper 

Melt butter, and when bubbling add flour and stir till smooth. Add 
gradually the hot milk, season and cook until thick and smooth. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

3 c celery 1 slice of onion 

1 c boiling water 3 c of white sauce . 

Wash and scrape celery, cut" into pieces, add onion and simmer in. 
the hot water till soft, about J4 hour. Add more water as it boils away, 
to make one pint. Rub through a sieve, add to the white sauce, reheat 
and serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. 

1 pt peas 1 slice of onion 

1 pt boiling water 2 c vi-hite sauce 

Boil peas in water till soft about 20 minutes. Rub through a sieve, 
add to the white sauce, reheat and serve. Canned or dried peas may be 
used instead of fresh ones. If dried, they Should be soaked over night, 
and boiled 2 or 3 hours. 



45 

LES^SON IV. 

Cheese is the curd ,of milk, drained, waited and pressed. Skim milk 
cheese does qot contain as much fat as cheese made from full milk and 
therefore is not as "nourishing. Lard or some other cheap fat is often 
added to supply the lack of natural fat in cheap cheese. Such cheese is 
greasy when warm, has little flavor and does .not keep well. Cheese, 
like eggs, contains much nourishment in small bulk. It is a good substi- 
tute for meat, and in combination with rice, macaroni and potatoes, may 
be used in place of it. 

Cheese is hard to digest and should not be used by persons of weak 
digestion, or young c'hildren. For those engaged in physical labor, it is- 
•one of the best of foods. 

Welsh Rarebit 

% lb cheese spk of cayenne 

J4 c'milk '/i ts,p salt 

1 egg 2 tsp butter 

1 tsp mustard 

Melt the cheese over hot water, add milk and eggs, mixed 'with sea- 
soning. Cook over hot water until like boiled custard, stirring constantly. 
Add butter, and when melted pour over toast or crackers and serve at 
^ -once. 

French Rarebit. 

8 slices of bread, buttered 14 tsp mustard 

y2 lb cheese yi tsp salt 

2 c milk spk cayenne 
2 eggs 

Put bread and cheese in layer in a buttered baking dish and pour 
over it the milk, to which has been added the egg and seasoning. Bake 
until brown and milk is absorbed in a slow oven. 



LESSON V. 
Invalid Cooking. 

The sick room should be more thoroughly ventilated' than any room 
in the house. It should not contain any unnecessary furniture and should 
be kept scrupulously clean. The diet is divided into three classes, liquid, 
light and convalescent. Liquid diet consists entirely of liquid foods, 
given at intervals of about two hours. It consists 'chiefly of milk and 
■meat broths. Light 'diet is given in less severe illness, or until the re- 
covery of a patient. It consists, in addition to the liquid diet, of soft 
cooked eggs, soups, gelatins, etc. Coovalescent diet includes all ordinary 
dishes that are easily digested. The change from one to another should 
Se made gradually.. 

All diets should be prescribed by a physician. 



46 

Serving on Ivnalid's Tray. 

Take special care in setting the tray. Cover with a spotless tray 
cloth or dinner napkin, folding same, if it is larger than the tray, that it 
may come just to the edge. Avoid a fringed cloth, as it is apt to prove 
annoying. Select the daintiest china, finest glass and choicest silver, 
making changes as often as possible. 

Egg-Nog. 

1 egg ''A c milk 

2 tsp sugar nutmeg 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light and creamy, add sugar and milk. 
Stir in lightly the beaten white, pour into a glass and sprinkle the top 
with nutmeg. 

Beef Tea. 

1 lb round steak salt 

1 pt cold water 

Wash meat quickly, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put into- 
a fruit jar w'ith the water and cover it. Set on trivet in a kettle of cold 
water. Heat slowly, simmering, not boiling, for two hours, strain and 
season with salt. In reheating the tea, great care should be taken not to 
let it boil. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. 

Cut juicy lean meat into thin strips. Scrape the meat from the fibre, 
season with salt and pepper and spread between thin slices of bread. 

Beef Juice. 

Cut into small bits lean 'beef from the top of the round, put into a 
glass jar, put on the cover and set ithe jar, wrapped in cloth, upon a, 
trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat the water slowly until it steams. 
Let it remain at this temperature four or five hours., then strain, pressing 
the meat to obtain all the juice. 

Stewed Figs. 

Wash figs and soak several hours in cold water. Simmer in same 
water until very tender. Sweeten to taste. 



LESSON VI. 

Albumen. 

Omelets. 

For notes see Lesson 7, First Year. 

General rule for omelet. Allow one egg for each person and one tbsp- 
of milk for each egg. 



47 



Plain Omelet. 



^/f^^ 1^ ^P^ pepper 

54 tsp salt 3 tbsp mflk or hot water 

Beat eggs till well mixed, add salt, pepper and liquid. Put 2 tsp 
butter in a smooth frying pan, shake it over the fire until melted, then 
turn in the mixture. Shake occasionally to see that the omelet does not 
stick. Fold and serve at once. 

Beaten Omelet. 

3 eggs beaten separately salt and pepper 

3 tbsp milk 

Beat the yolks till very light. Add milk and seasoning, then beaten 
whites. Heat 2 tsp butter in a frying pan, pour in the omelette and 
spread evenly. Cook slowly till brown o.n the bottom. Set in the oven 
to dry on top, fold and serve at once. 



LESSON VII. 

Albumen — Continued. 

Caramel Custard. 

2 eggs 1 pt scalded milk 

54 c sugar 1 ssp salt 

1 tsp vanilla 

Melt sugar for caramel, add slowly to scalded milk, cook till sugar 
melts. Pour slowly over the beaten eggs and flavor. Pour into buttered 
cups and bake as baked custard. 

Caramel Sauce. 

14 c sugar yi c boiling water 

Melt sugar, as for caramel, add water and simmer 10 minutes. Pour 
over custard when cold. 

Prune Souffle. 

H lb prunes whites of 3 eggs 

1 c sugar 

Cook prunes until very tender. Put through a sieve. When cool, add 
sugar and beaten whites. Bake in a buttered pan set in a pan of hot 
water in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. For prune whip, use whites 
of two eggs, cut prunes instead of straining, and do not bake. 



LESSON VIII. 

Fish. 

Fish should always be fresh and used in season. When fresh the flesh 
is firm, and will rise at once, when pressed with the finger; the eyes will 
be bright. Red blooded fish, such as salmon, mackerel and blue fish, have 



48 

the oil distributed through the body. White fish, like halibut', cod and 
haddock, have the oil in the liver, and are more easily digested than red- 
blooded fish. Fish contain four of the food principles — proteid, fat, min- 
eral matter and water. A large per cent, is refuse. Fish may be pre- 
served by canning, salting, pickling or drying. 

To Clean Fish. 

Remove scales by drawing the back of the knife over the fish, begin- 
ning at the tail and working toward the head. Wash quickly but do not 
soak. If not to be used at once, sprin/kle lightly with salt, wrap in a 
clean cloth and keep in a cool place. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean, wipe and dry fish. Do not remove the head and tail. Rub all 
over with salt, stuff and sew up. Lay the fish in the pan and skewer it 
into the shape of a letter S. Lay strips of salt pork around the pan and 
across the back. Sprinkle the fiah with salt and pepper and dredge with 
flour. When the flour begins to brown, baste with the fat in the pan. It 
is done when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Lift carefully 
on a hot platter, dnaw out skewers and strings and serve with drawn 
butter or egg sauce. 

Drawn Butter. 

1 pt. hot water or stock. 4 tbsp. flour. 

4 tbsp. butter. y, tsp. salt. 

pepper. / 

Melt butter in frying pan, add flour and gradually the hot water. 
Cook until thick land perfectly smooth. Add cold hard boiled eggs, 
■chopped fine, if desired. 

Fish Turbot. 

1 pt. milk. 4 tbsp. butter. 
4 tbsp. flour. 2 eggs. 

salt and pepper. 
Remove bones and skin from' fish and flake. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Make a white sauce with the milk, butter and flour. Season 
with salt and pepper and if desired a little minced onion. Remove from 
fire and add beaten eggs. Put a layer of fish in a baking dish, cover with 
sauce; repeat until the dish is full, cover with buttered crumbs and 'bake 
until brown. A few drops of lemon juice sprinkled over the fish im- 
prov'es the flavor. 

LESSON IX. 
Fish — Continued. 

For Notes See Lesson IX. — 1st Year. 
Codfish Balls. 

Vz lb. codfish. 1 egg. 

2 c. diced potatoes raw. 1 tbsp. butter. 

Shred codfish, add potatoes, cover with boiling water until tender. 
Drain and mash. Add beaten egg and butter; shape in tbsp. and saute or 
fry in hot fat. Serve hot. 



49 

Meat Loaf. 

2 lb. lean beef or veal. 4 butter crackers. 
Yi I'b. salt pork. 1 or 2 .beaten eggs. 

2 t'bsp. salt. 

Chop meat and salt pork, add crackers, beaten eggs, salt and pepper, 
Pack in a small bread pan and bake slowly 2 hrs. or more. Let cool in 
, the pan. Slice thin in serving. 

Salmon Loaf. 

1 can salmon. t/^ c. bread crumbs. 

3 eggs. 4 tbsp. melted butter. 

salt and cayenne pepper. 

Flake fish, add butter, crumbs, beaten eggs and seasoning. Pour in- 
to buttered pans and bake or steam 1 hr. 

LESSON X 

For Notes on Beef, See Lesson XIIL — 1st Year. 
Frying. 
Olive oil, lard, beef drippings, cottolene or cocoa 'butter may be used 
for frying. There should be enough fat to entirely cover the articles to 
be fried. The fat should be hot enough to instantly harden the albumen 
on the outside to keep the fat from soaking into the articl? .fried. If the 
article has not enough albumen in it, dip it in fat-proof, coating; that is, 
dip in cracker or bread crumbs, then in slightly beaten egg, then in 
crumbs again. 

Do not put too many articles in the fat at one time as that causes it 
to bubble over on the stove and also cools it. When they are done drain 
on brown paper. Strain the fat through cheese cloth or flannel after 
every frying; it may be used again several times unless it has been used 
for fish. 

To test the fat, drop in a small piece of bread, potato or dough; if it 
turns brown while you count 60, as the clock ticks, it is hot enough to 
fry any uncooked mixture. If it browns while you count 40, it is hot 
enough to fry cooked mixtures. 

To Clarify Fat. 

Add boiling water to cold fat, stir vigorously and set. aside to cool; 
the fat will form a cake on top, which may be easily- removed; on the 
bottom of the cake will be found sediment which may be readily scraped 
off with a knife. 

Roast Beef. 

Wash meat quickly, place in a dripping pan and s'prinkle with salt, 
pepper and flour. Place in a hot oven. When the flour begins to brown 
reduce the heat of the oven slightly and baste with the fat in the pan. 
If the fat begins to burn add a little boiling water. Baste every 10 min. 
turning the meat during the roasting. Roast IS min., to the lb., if liked 
rare; 20 min., to the lb., if well done. 



50 

Gravy. 

To the fat in the pan add an equal quantity of flour, (albout 4 tbsp. 
of each) and stir until brown. Add gradually boiling water to make of 
the right consistency. Cook until smooth. Sea&cwi with salt and pepper. 

Croquettes. 

General rule: — Two parts chopped cooked meat or fish to one part 
of thick white sauce, cheese, macaroni, and some kinds of vegetables may 
also be used in making croquettes. 

Beef Croquettes. 

2 c. chopped cold cooked beef. Yolk of 1 egg. 

H tsp. salt. Few grains of cayenne. 

spk. of pepper. Few drops of onion juice. 

1 c. thick white sauce. 
Mix in order given, shape, roll in fat-proof coating and fry. 

Thick White Sauce. 

2 tibsp. butter. 1 c. milk. 

4 tbsp. flour. seas'oning. 

Make the same as other white sauces. 



LESSON XI. 
Veal. 

For notes on veal see I^esson 14, 1st yr. 

Breaded Veal. 

Cut veal steak in pieces suitable for serving, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and roll in fat-proof coating. Saute in hot lard. Chops may also 
be used. 

Baked Breaded Veal. 

Place veal steaks in dripping pan, cover with buttered and seasoned 
crumbs. Bake in a fairly hot oven about 30 min., or until tender. Add 
a small amount -of water if crumbs brown too quickly. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

For recipe see Lesson 22, 1st yr. 

LESSON XII. 

Pork. 

Pork is the name given to the flesh of a pig or hog. It should be 
eaten soon after it is killed and dressed'. Good pork should fee pale red 
in color, firm, and the fat white and clear. Pork has more fat than any 
other meat. The leaf lard comes from leaf shaped pieces of solid fat 
which lie just inside the flank. Fresh pork is bard to digest, but is made 



51 



more wholesome by salting and smoking. Pork shoujd be thoroughly 
cooked and eaten only in cold weather as it is more liable to disease than 
any other meat. 

Pork Chart. 



Cuts of Pork. 

1. — Ham. Frying and 'boiling. 

2. — Tenderloin. Frying and roasting. 

3. — Loin. Chops and roast. 

4. — Ribs. Qhops and roast. 

5. — Leaf lard (inside.) Lard. 

6. — Tail piece. Sausage. 

7. — Clear back fat. Salt pork. 

8. — Flank. Salt pork and bacon. 

9. — Shoulder. Boiling. 
10.— Jowl. Head cheese. 
11. — Hocks. Pickling and boiling. 
12. — Feet, Pickling and boiling. 

Broiling. 

• Broiling is cooking directly over a bed of coals, which should be free ■ 
from smoke and flame, or over a gas flame. The surface of the meat 
being exposed to intense heat, coagulates, and the flow of the juices is 
started upward, then the meat should 'be quickly turned and the other 
side seared, so preventing the loss oif the juices. Turn again and again 
until browned. Only tender, juicy meats should be broiled. 



52 

Pan-Broiling. ' 

For pan-broiling have the pan very hot before putting in the rneat._ 
Ruib it lightly with a bit of fat from the meat. Let the meat lie on One 
side until seared, then turn it and'continue turning occasionally until done. 
If melted fat collects in the pan, pour it off. Season and serve like 
broiled meat. 

Broiled Steak. 

Grease the broiler with a bit of fat from the meat. Wash meat 
quickly. Place the thickest part of the steak near the middle of the 
broiler. Turn the broiler every ten seconds. When well 'browned on 
both sides put on a hot platter. Season with salt, pepper and butter. 

Steak '^ in. thick should be broiled from 4 to 6 min. 

Pan Broiled Chops. 

Wipe chops clean and put into a hot frying-pan, without grease. 
Turn as soon as seared. Season; brown nicely on 'both sides. Put on a 
hot platter. Beef steak may be cooked in the same way. 



LESSON XIII. 
Poultry. 

The flesh of poultry has less red blood and is drier than the flesh of 

' animals. It is not marbled with fat, as .that is ifound in layers just inside 

the skin, and around the intestines. Chicken is easily digested'. It is 

found in market throughout the year. From, March till June, the Spring 

chickens are the best. 

Turkeys and ducks are best during the winter months. 

The best chickens have sqft, yellow .feet, short thick legs, smooth 
moist skin, plump breast, with the cartilage on the end of the breast bone 
soft and pliable. 

Pin feathers always indicate a young bird, and long hair an older one. 
Older fowls have long thin necks and feet and sharp scales; the end of 
the breast bone is hard, the flesh has a purplish tinge, and there is 
usually a large amount of fat. 

To Prepare a Fowl for Cooking. 

Pick out pin-feathers, remove the hair by singeing over a blaze and" 
wipe with a damp cloth. Cut oflf the head and remove the wind pipe and 
■crop without cutting the skin. Cut through the skin below the leg joint 
without cutting the tendons. Plate leg at edge of board and break the. 
joint; hold the fowl firmly in the left hand and pull ofif the- foot with the 
tendons. In old birds the tendons must be taken out one at a time, using 
a steel stiver. Make an incision below the breast bone, with the liand re- 
move .the entrails, gizzard, heart and liver. The last three are called 
giblets. , Do not break the gall bladder, lying on the under surface of the 
right lobe of- the liver. Remove carefully the lungs and .kidneys, lying 



53 

in the hollow near the back ,bone. Remove the bile-bag, and wash the 
fowl by letting cold water run through it, but do not let' it soak in cold 
water. Clean the giblets carefully. 

Roast Chicken'. 

Clean and stuff chicken. Sew up the incision. Rub all over with 
soft butter and salt. Tie it into a compact shape, fastening the legs and 
wings close to the body, dredge with flour. Place in a hot oven, and 
when the flour browns, baste with '4 ^- butter melted in Yj c. boiling 
water. Baste -every ten min., using more water if necessary, to prevent 
burning. Turn the chicken, that it may brown evenly. When the 
breast rneat is tender, the chicken is sufficiently cooked. Roast a 4 lb. 
thicken about 1J4 to 2 hrs. 

Stuffing. 

1 c. crumbs. J/^ c. boiling water. 

4 tbsp. butter. salt and pepper, 

■sage, marjoram or thyme. 

Season crumbs, add water in which butter has 'been melted and stuff 
the fowl, pressing in tightly and sewing incision.- 

Gravy. 

To .the fat in the pan, add 1 c. boiling water and 1 c. milk. Thicken 
vi'ith 3 tbsp. flour wet in cold water. Cook till thick. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast. 

lyi c. cold cooked chicken cut fine. 

1 c. white isauce. 

Heat the chicken in the sauce. Serve on toast. 



LESSON XIV. 
Starch — Potatoes. 

For notes on potatoes and starch see Lesson 17, 1st yr. 

Monte Carlo Potatoes. 

I Dice raw potatoes fine. Put into a buttered baking dish, season with 

salt, pepper and butter. Cover with milk and bake 54 h^- or until soft. 

Potato Souffle. 

6 pota.toes. ^ tbsp. milk. 

2 tbsp. butter. 2 eggs, 

salt and pepper. 

Boil and mash potatoes, add butter, milk, seasoning and yolks of 
eggs. Fold in the beaten whites. Place in a buttered baking dish and 
bake in hot oven about 10 min. Serve at once. 



54 

LESSON XV. 

Starch — Tapioca. 

Tapioca is almost pure starch obtained from the root of the cassava 
plant a native of South America. It is put on the market in several 
forms, Pearl, Minute, Instantaneous and Flake. 

Apple Tapioca. 

% c. tapioca. Vz tsp. salt. 

2j^ c. 'boiling water. Vi c sugar. 

I S apples. 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak in cold water over night or several hrs. 
Minute tapioca need not be soaked. Pour .over it the boiling water, and 
cook in a double boiler until transparent. Stir often and add salt. Pare 
and slice apples, put into a baking dish, sprinkle over them the sugar 
and if liked, lemon juice. Pour over the tapioca and bake until ap- 
ples are very soft. Serve hot or cold. A delicious variation may be 
made by using half pears or canned quinces and half apples. 

Tapioca Cream. 

J4 c. pearl tapioca. Vi c. sugar. 

1 pt. milk. Vi ssp. salt. 

2 eggs. y^ tsp. vanilla. 

Soak tapioca in hot water enough to cover, in the top of the double 
boiler, placed on the back of the stove. When the water ' is absorbed, 
add the milk and cook until the tapioca is transparent and soft^ Add 
sugar and salt to the beaten yolks. Pour the boiling mixture slowlj' on 
them," return, to the double boiler and cook 2 min., or till it thickens 
slightly. Remove from the fire, add the flavoring and 'beaten whites. 
Cool and serve. 

LESSON XVL 

Vegetables. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Peel and wash onions. Cook in boiling water with J^ tsp. soda for 5 
min. Drain, cover with boiling salted water and cook 1 hr. or until 
tender. Drain, put a layer in a baking dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and cover with white sauce. Repeat until dish is nearly full. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and brown in a liot oven. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Scald tomatoes and remove the skins. Cut in small pieces and put 
. in a stew pan. Season with salt, pepper, butter and a. little sugar if de- 
sired. Stew slowly, about Yz hr. or longer if not very ripe. A few breac. 
crumbs may be added before removing from fire. 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Put a layer of stewed tomatoes in the 'bottom of a ibaking dish. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and dot with butter. Repeat until dish is near- 
ly full. Sprinkle the top with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot oven 
until brown. Crumbs may be put in between the layers if preferred. 



55 

LESSON XVII. 
Salads. 

For notes on salads see Lesson 20, 1st yr. 

Vegetable or Macedoine Salad. 

Cold cooked peas, carrots, beets, string beans or almost any cold 
vegetable may be combined in this salad. Cut beets and carrots in half 
inch cubes; string beans and celery in ishort lengths. 

Mix each vegetalble separately with French or boiled dressing and ar- 
range them in sections, forming a circular mound upon a bed of lettuce. 
Let vegetables of contrasting colors come next each other and garnish 
with radishes, celery tips and small lettuce leaves. 



French Dressing. 

2 tbsp. olive oil. Yi tsp. salt. 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. J4 tsp. pepper. 

Stir seasoning into the oil, add vinegar and stir hard until the dress- 
ing thickens slightly. 

Boiled Dressing. 

Yi tbsp. salt. 1 tbsp. flour. 

54 itsp. mustard. Yolks of 2 eggs or 1 whole egg. 

1 tbsp. sugar. '34 c. inilk. 

-few grains cayenne. ^ c. vinegar. 

1 tbsp. butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, add slightly beaten eggs, and milk. Cook over 
boiling water until it thickens, stirring constantly. Xdd vinegar slowly, 
and butter; strain- if necessary and cool. If it curdles, beat with Dover 
egg beater until smooth. 



LESSON XVIII. 

Salad — Continued. 

Salmon Salads. 

1 hard boiled egg. 1 can salmon. 

Drain oil from salmon. Remove skin and bone. Flake fish, being 
very careful not to mash. Add egg, cut into dice and' moisten with salad 
dressing. Chopped sour pickle, cucumber cut into dice, broken nut meats 
and shredded lettuce may be added. 

Veal Salad. 

2 lb. cold cooked veal. 1 stalk celery or 1 cucumber. 

nut meats. 
Dice meat, add celery or cucum'bers cut in dice, then nut meats. 
Moisten with dressing and serve on shredded lettuce. 



56 

Salad Dressing. 

4 tbsp. flour. dash of cayenne pepper. 

4 tbsp. sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 tsp. salt. Yi c. vinegar. 

1 tsp. mustard. Yj c. water. 

3 tbsp. olive oil or IVi tbsp. butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs, slightly beaten, vinegar and water. 
Cook, over hot water until thick. Add butter, or, if oil is used, add very 
slowly. 



LESSON XIX. 
Beatis. 

String beans. There are two varieties, green land yellow (butter 
beans). The green 'beans are the 'best flavored and are in market from 
July to October. 

Shell beans, are sold in pod* or shelled. They are in market during 
July and August. These .are Lima Beans. Dried beans rmay be had 
throughout the' yeiar. 

Beans are deficient in fat and therefore should be cooked with 
some form of it. They are easily digested if the hull is broken, but if not, 
the digestive juices cannot penetrate them; hence split beans which have 
'the hulls rem^oved are more easily digested. 

Steaming. 

A mold or tightly covered' tin can may be used for batters, while 
doughs may be placed in the bottom of a steamer. The mold should be 
thoroughly greased and if it has no cover, a piece of strong brown paper, 
greased, may te tied over the top. Place the molds in a steamer over 
boiling water or on a rack in a kettle of boilimg water. Keep the water 
boiling and as it evaporates, replenish with more of the same temper- 
ature. ' ^ 

Boston Baked Beans. 

1 pt. beans. Y c. molasses. 

54 tsp. soda. 1 tsp. mustard. 

yi tsp. salt. 14 lb. salt pork. 

1 small onion. 

Pick over, wash beans and soak over night in. cold water. Drain, 
add soda and cover again with cold water. Boil 20 mih., or until the out- 
side skin cracks. Boil the pork 20 min,, saving the water in which it was 
boiled. Put the onion and pork in the bottom of the bean jar. Fill 
with beans and pour over them the molasses, with which the seasoning 
has been mixed. Cover with the water in which the pork was boiled 
and bake slowly for 5 or 6 hrs. Cover while baking and add water as 
needed. Brown sugar may be used instead of riiolasses. 



57 

.Boston BroWn Bread. 

1 c. rye flour. .2 tsp. soda. 

1 c. corn meal. y^ tsp. salt. 

r c. graham flour. y^ c. molasses. 

2 c. sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and molasses and beat well. Pour 
into greased molds. Grease covers also and never fill molds more than 
Ys full. Half molasses and half brown sugar may be used. Steam iyi 
hours. 



LESSON XX. 

For sponge bread, see Lesson 23, first year. 

BREAD. 
Vienna Bread. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tbsp. sa,lt. 

1 pt. boiling water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar. 1 c. lukewarm water. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter. ' Flour to make a soft dough. 

Put the salt, sugar," lard and milk in a bowl and pour over them the 
boiling water. When luke warm add yeast and flour enough to make a 
dough. Turn on a well floured boiard and knead 20 min. Put into a 
greased bowl, grease the top to prevent a hard crust ifrom forming. 
Cover closely and do not -let drafts of cold air strike it. Let rise till it~ 
doubles in size, over night in winter, about four hours in summer. 
Knead lightly to work out bubbles of gas. Shape into loaves or rolls. 
Let loaves rise in the pan J4 to 54 'hrs. and bake 40 to 60 min. or till a 
rich brown and the loaf emits a hollow sound when tapped on the bot- 
tom. 

Rolls should rise in the pan from 1 to l^^ hrs. and bake in a hot 
oven 20 minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread. 

2 c. oatmeal. M c, sugar. 

3 c. boiling water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 
1 tbsp. lard. 1 c. lukewarm water. , 

1 tsp. salt. flour. 

Scald the oatmeal with boiling water, add lard, salt, sugar and when 
luke warm, the dissolved yeast cake. Add flour enough to make a very 
stiflf dough, so that the spoon will stand upright in it. 

Beat thoroughly as the flour is added. Put in greased pans and let 
rise about 2 hrs. The pan should be i/^ to 54 fuU- Bake 1 hr. in a 
moderate oven. 



58 

LESSON XXI. 
Coffee Cake. 

1 c. scalded milk. V2 tsp. salt. 

Yi c. butter or Vz cake yeast 

butter and lard. dissolved in J4 c. 

54 c. sugar. luke warm water. 

flour. 1 egg. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to m^ilk. When lukewarm, add dissolved 
yeast cake and egg well beaten. Add flpur enough to make a stift batter; 
cover and let rise over night; knead lightly in the morning, spread in 
greased dripping pan, cover and let rise again. Before baking, brush with 
beaten egg and cover with following mixture: Melt 3 tbsp. butter, add 
5-6 c. sugar. Remove from fire when sugar is partially melted, add U 
tsp. cinamon and 3 tbsp. flour. 



LESSON XXII. 
Uses of stale bread. 

Stale bread, if heated in a closely covered pan, becomes almost like 
fresh bread and can be used again on the table. Keep pieces of stale 
bread by tliemselves in a jar or covered bowl. Slightly stale pieces may 
be used for toast. Dry, broken pieces in a warm oven until they are 
crisp but not brown. Crush and sift the crumbs and keep in a, glass jar 
closely covered. They will keep for several weeks. Coarser and 
browned crumbs may be used for the tops of escalloped dishes. Broken 
pieces not dried are suitable for bread puddings, stuffing, and fillings for 
escalloped dishes. Bread, dried slowly in the oven until brittle and brown 
all through, is liked by many people and is excellent for children. 

Bread Pudding. 

,1 pt. stale bread crumbs. 54 c. sugar.' 

1 qt. milk. Yi tsp." salt. 

3 eggs. 2 tbsp. butter. 

Yi^ tsp. nutmeg or cinnanron. 
Soak ibread crumbs in milk. Beat eggs, add sugar, salt, butter and 
spice. Stir this mixture into the bread and milk. Put into a baking 
dish and bake 1 hr. in a moderate oven. If desired, add 1 square melted 
chocolate. 

Egg Toast or Fried Bread. 

1 egg. 1 ssp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 10 slices bread. 

Beat eggs slightly, add tnilk and salt. Dip bread quickly into the 
-mixture. Saute, browning on both sides. Serve with butter and syrup, 
or with a lemon sauce for dessert. 

Yellow Sauce. 

2 eggs. 1 c. powdered sugar. 
1 tbsp. cream. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat eggs till thick and lemon colored. Add cream and- sugar grad- 
ually, continue beating. Flavor and serve. 



59 

LESSON XXIII. 
Corn Fritters. 

1 pt. corn. 1 ts.p. sak. 

_ yi c. flour. spk. pepper. 

*' ^ tsp. baking powder. ' 2 eggs. 

If fresh corn is used, score down the center of each row, cut ofl ker- 
nels, and with the .back of a knife, press out the pulp. If canned corn is 
used, chop fine and add 2 tbsp. milk. Add beaten yolks, flour, baking 
powder and seasoning to the corn, fold in beaten whites. Saute by drop- 
ping table spoonfuls into the hot fat. Brown on both sides. Do not pile 
one on another or the lower ones will be greasy and soggy. 

Apple Fritters. 

XYi c. flour. 2 c. milk. 

4 tsp. baking ptfwder. 1 egg. 

J^tsp.salt. 1 tbsp. butter. 

2 t.art apples. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, and butter, melted. Pare, 
core and slice apples in small pieces and stir into the batter, or cut in 
round slices and dip into the batter, one at a time and saute or fry. 



LESSON XXIV. 

For notes see Lesson 28, 1st yr. 

In making cookies, care should be taken not to make them too stiff 
•or they will be dry. Handle as little as possible to avoid making them 
tough. Roll only a part' of the dough at a time, cutting the cookies as 
close together as possible. Place in the pans with an inch space between 
■each cookie to retain the shape. Cookies require a hot oven, and should 
be removed from the pan while hot to prevent breaking. 

Sour Milk Cookies. 

1 c. butter. 1 c. sour milk. 

1 c. sugar. 1 tsp. soda. 

2 eggs.- flour. 

Mix in order given, mixing soda with 2 c. flour, then adding flour 
enough to roll. Turn on a floured board, roll about J4 inch thick, cut and 
bake on floured tins. , 

Sour Milk Ginger Cookies. 

1 c. butter. yi c. sour milk. 

1 c. sugar. ' 2 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 c. molasses. I'J^ tsp. soda: 

1 egg. . flour. 
speck cloves, allspice., ginger and nutmeg. 

Mix iff order given, .mixing the soda and spices with 2c. flour, and 
contintte as for sour milk cookies. 



60 

LESSON XXV. 
Sour Milk Chocolate Cake. , ^ 

V2 c. butter. Vi c. boiling water. 

lYi c. brown sugar (1 lb.) 1 tsp. soda. 

2 eggs. 1 square chocolate. 
Yi c. sour milk. 2 c. flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beaten eggs, sour milk and boil- 
ing water, with soda and chocolate dissolved in it. Add flour and bake 
in greased tins. 

Sour Milk Spice Cake. 

1 c. sugar. 1 egig. 

3 tbsp. shortening. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. sour milk. 2 c. flour. 

Yz tsp. cinnamon. Y-i tsp. cloves. Ya tsp. ginger. Ya tsp. nutmeg. 

Cream butterj add sugar gradually, and cream again. Add beaten 
egg, sour milk, and flour mixed with soda and spices. Bake in a greased 
Pian, in a moderate oven. 

LESSON XXVI. 
■ Sour Milk Fried Cakes. 

Ya c. shortening. 1 tsp. soda. 

2 c. sugar. 1 tsp. cream tartar. 

3 eggs. Yi tsp. salt, 

1 pt. sour rnilk. flour. 

J4 tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. 
Mix in order given, mixing soda, cream of tartar and salt with 2 c. 
flour, then more flour to make a soft dough. Turn on a floured board,, 
roll about Y^ inch thick, cut and fry. 

Potato Fried Cakes. 

2 good sized potatoes. ' 2 eggs. 

2 tbsp. butter. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. sugar. 

Y2 tsp. salt. flour. 

'Yz tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Boil and mash potatoes, add butter, sugar, eggs and 2 c. flour mixed 
with salt and baking powder, then more flour to make a soft dough. Turn 
on a floured board, roll Y2 inch thick, cut and fry. 

LESSON XXVII. 
Apple Dumplings. 

2 c. flour. , 1 tbsp, shortening. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 1 scant c. milk. 
Y^ tsp. salt. 3 apples. 

Mix as for baking powder biscuits. Roll Ya in- thick. Put saucer on 
dough, and cut around with a short knife. Place on this dough sliced ap- 
ples. Sprinkle with sugar fold the dough over the apple, pinching it 
' down thoroughly. Steam 1 hr. and serve with a sauce or cream, or 
place in a baking dish and pour over them a syrup made with 1 c. sugar, 
2 c. boiling water and 1 tbsp. butter and bake 45 min., covering the first 
half hour. 



61 

Puddipg Sauce. 

3 tbsp. butter. 1 j^ c. hot water. 

4 tbsp. flour. 1 i^ c. brown' sugar. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Melt butter, add flour and then ,hot water gradually. Cook until 
thick and smooth and add sugar. Stir until sugar is melted, add lemon 
juice and serve .hot. 



LESSON XXVIII. 

Dutch Apple Cake. 

2 c. flour. 4 tbsp. butter. 

4 tsp. baking powder. . 1 c. milk. 

Vi tsp. salt. 1 egg. 

2 apples. 

Mix dry ingredients, cut in the butter, add imilk and, 'beaten egg.. 
Spread on greased shallow pans. Pare^ core and cut apples in slices lay- 
ing them in rows on top of the dough pressing in slightly. Sprinkle top 
with sugar and cinnamon mixed and bake in a hot oven from 20 to 30 
min. Serve with sauce. 

I 
Peach Cobbler. 

1 c. flour. 2 tsp. butter. 

2 tsp. baking powder. '^ c. milk. 

54 tsp. salt. 6 or 8 peaches. 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit.. Pare and slice poaches, and put 
in the bottom of a baking dish. Add 1 c. sugar and 2 tbsp. water. Cover 
with batter and bake 30 min. in a moderate oven. Serve with cream and 
sugar. Canned or dried peaches or berries may be used. 



LESSON XXIX. 
Cookies. 

1/2 c. butter. ^ tsp. flavoring. 

1 c. sugar. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

2 eggs. V2 tsp. nutmeg. 
14 c. milk. _ 2 14 c. flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar, beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and flour 
mixed with baking powder and nutmieg. Turn on a floured board, roll, 
cut and bake on greased tins about 10 min. 



LESSON XXX. 

The general thickness oif cake batters varies with its kind. The 
batter for loaf cake should dro.p from the spoon in a thick mass. For 
layer cakes, the batter, should drop in ribbons, breaking often. For 
sponge cake should be thin enough to pour. 

(See notes Lesson 32, and 33 1st yr). 



62 

Mother's Cake. 

J4 c. butter scant. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 Vi c. sugar. 1 c. milk. 

3 eggs. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

3 c. flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then beaten yolks and flavoring. 
Mix flour and baking powder, and add alternately with the milk. Beat - 
well and fold in beaten whites. Bake 40 to SO min. in a moderate oven, 
if a loaf, 20 to 25 min. if in layers. 

Boiled Frosting. 

1 c. sugar. whites 2 eggs. 

14 c. water. 'l4 tsp. vanilla. 

Mix sugar and water, heat gradually and boil slowly without stirring 
until syrup will thread, when dropped from tip of spoon or tines of a 
silver fork. Pour gradually on whites beaten very stiff, and continue 
beating until thick enough to spread, then add flavoring. If beateri 
too long, it will not besmooth. If not beaten long enough, the frosting 
will run. 

LESSON XXXI. 

The .oven for baking sponge cake should be 'hot enough to turn a 
piece of white paper a light brown in S min. 

To Mix Sponge Cakes. ' 

Separate yolks from whites of eggs. Beat yolks till thick and 
lemon colored, using an egg beater; add sugar gradually, and continue 
beating, then add flavoring. Beat whites till stiff and dry, add to the 
first mixture. Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder' if used,, 
and cut and fold it ip with the eggs at the last. If mixture is beaten 
after the addition of the flour, much of the work already done of enclos- 
ing the air is lost. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. 

3 eggs. 1 tsp. flavoring. 

ly^ c. sugar. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. water. 2 c. flour, scant. 

Beat yolks 5 min., add sugar slowly and beat 2 min. Add water and 
flavoring. Slip the beaten whites into the bowl, and sift the flour, mixed 
with the baking powder, slowly over tJhem. Fold all together. Bake in 
greased shallow tins or loaf. Split and fill with cream. ' Sprinkle the top 
with powdered sugar. 

Cream. 

1 pt. milk. 14 ssp. salt. 

2 eggs. 2 thip.. butter. 
V2 c. sugar. 4 tbsp. flour. 

^ tsp. flavoring. 
Scald milk and thicken it with butter and flour as for white sauce. 
Add eggs mixed with sugar and salt. Cook 2 min. Cool and flavor. 



63 

LESSON XXXII. 
Gold Cake. 

V2 c. butter scant. 14 c milk 

IK c. sugar. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

yolkes of 4 eggs. • i^ tsp. nutmeg. 

2 c. flour. 

Cream bjitter, add sugar gradually and cream again. Add beaten 
yolks, milk, and flour mixed with baking powd'er and nutmeg. Bake in 
greased tins. 

Silver Cake. 

Vz c. butter. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

J4 c. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

Vt. c. milk. ^ y^ tsp. flavoring, 

whites 4 eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and cream^ again. Add flour, 
mixed with baking powder and milk alternately, then flavoring. Beat 
well and fold in beaten whites. Bake in greased tins. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

1 squares chocolate. 3 tbsp. milk. 

1 scant c. powdered sugar. yolk 1 egg. 

H tsp. flavoring. 

Melt chocolate oyer hot w'ater. Add one half the sugar and all of 
the milk. Add remaining sugar, and sjightly beaten yolk. Cook until 
it thickens, stirring constantly. Cool slightly, flavor and spread on cake. 



' LESSON XXXIII. 

Pastry should be handled as little, as lightly and as quickly as 
possible. Winter wheat flour should be used. Butter makes a crisip brown 
crust; lard, a tender, white crust. The shortening and the water should 
be cold and mixed into the flour with a knife, that the heat of the hands 
may not soften the shortening. If convenient, use a marble or -glass 
slab for rolling. Never use cheap materials for a pie. Pastry should be 
put into a hot oven and the heat lessened after a short time, as it should 
rise first and then brown. 

Plain Paste. 

lJ/2 c. flour. . % c. lard. 

^ ts.p. salt. ice water. 

Mix flour and salt. Cut in the lard with a knife. Add water grad- 
ually, using only enough to moisten. Turn on a floured board and roll 
one half of it for the lower crust, about y% of an inch thick. Fit loosely 
on a pan, cutting around the edges with a knife. Brush the edge lightly 
with cold water to make the two crusts stick together. The pie is then 
ready to fill. After filling, roll out the rest of the douigh, making incision 
in the center to allow the steam to escape. Fit the upper crust to the 
lower crust, cut the edges to fit the pan, and press them together to 
prevent the juices from escaping. 



64 

Apple Pie. 

Pare, core and slice apples, or cut in dice. Fill the lower crust, 
heaping slightly in the center. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg or cinna- 
mon. Add a little flour, dot with butter, add a little water. Put on the 
upper crust and bake 35 to 40 min. 

LESSON XXXIV. 

Paste No. 2. 

1}^ c. flour. J4 c. butter. 

^ tsp. salt, y^ c. lard. 

ice water. 

Mix flour and salt, cut in lard with a knife. Add water gradually, 
using only enough to moisten. Turn on a floured board, roll, dot with the 
butter. Sprinkle with flour and fold toward the center. Roll out again, 
and roll up as for a jelly roll. Cut from this enough for a single crust 
standing on end. Press flat with hand and roll out to fit the pan. Flour 
the pan before putting on the crust. The edge of the crust should be 
slightly fulled to prevent shrinking from the edge of the pan. Fill with ■ 
the filling desired, using the rest of the pastry for an upper crust. 

Lemon Pie. 

1J4 c. sugar. yolks 2 eggs. 

6 tbsp. corn starch. grated rind and juice 1 or 2 

2 c. boiling water. lemons. 

1 tbsp. butter. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add boiling water, stirring constantb'. 
Cook 2 min., add' butter, slightly 'beaten yolks and lemon. Pour into 
la pan and bake until the crust is btown, about 25 or 30 min. Cool 
slightly and cover with meringue. A double rim may be used if pre- 
ferred and the crust baked before adding filling. 

Meringue. 

whites of 2 eggs. lemon juice or vanilla. 

4 tbsp. powdered sugar. 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Spread 
on pie and bake slowly until brown. 



LESSON XXXV. 
Graham Pudding. 

14 c. butter. 1^ c-. graham flour. 

53 c. milk. ^ tsp. soda. 

J4 c. molasses. 1 tsp. salt. 

^ ^Sg- 1 c. raisins chopped. 

Melt butter, add milk, molasses and beaten egg, mixed dry ingred- 
ients and floured raisins. Pour into a tuttered mold, cover and steam 
2y2 hrs'. Serve with sauce. Individual molds require 1 hr. • 



65 

Hard Sauce. 

' Y^ ^- ^'^■"^'■- ' Vi tsp. lemon extract. ' 

1 c. powd. or -gran, sugar. 2/^ tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sug-ar gradually and flavoring. Shape and serve. 

Suet Pudding. 

2}/. c. flour. -14 tsp. ginger. , 

1 tsp. soda. 1 c. suet, chopped.^ 

J4 tsp. salt. 1 c. raisins, chopped. 

1 tsp. cinnamon. 1 g. currants. 

'A tsip. nutmeg. 1 c. milk. 

^ tsp. cloves. 1 c. molasses. 

Mix in order given, pour into buttered mold, cover and steam 3 
hours. 

Foamy Sauce.- 

14 c. butter. l' egg. 

1- c. sugar. flavoring. 

Creiam butter, add sugar gradually and teaten egg. Beat while 
heating over- hot water, being careful not to let the butter melt. This 
should be jus.t warmed to the consistamcy of cream but not hot. Flavor 
and serve. 



LESSON XXXVI. 

Sandwiches. 

Bread for sandwiches should be at least a day old and cut in thin 
slices. It is not necessary to remove crusts. Use butter creamed until 
very .soft. Tlie slices of bread should, fit together. Roll each in oiled 
paper. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. 

Shred lettuce and put a little on the buttered bread. Dot with salad 
dressing, cover with lettuce and press on the other slice of bread. Trim 
edges of lettuce with scissors and cut in half. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Chop cold hard boiled eggs, moisten with salad dressing and spread 
thinly between slices of buttered bread. One egg makes three sand- 
wic'hes. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Drain oil from sardines. Remove skin and bones. Mash, add yolks 
of hard boiled eggs mashed fine. Season with salt, pepper and a few 
drops of. lemon juice. Spread thinly between slices of buttered bread. 

Use one sardine for each sandwich and allow the yolk of one egg 
for four sardines. 



66 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Mince cold 'boiled ham and moisten with salad dressing or, melted 
butter and spread between buttered bread; or put cold boiled ham sliced 
very thinly between slices of buttered bread. One tbsp. of minced ham 
makes one sandwicli. 

Relish Sandwiches. 

Chop olives, pickles and English walnuts very fine and moisten with 
salad dressing. Spread thinly between slices of buttered bread. 
Pimentos may be added. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Mash neufchatel cheese, add chopped olives and spread thinly be- 
tween slices of buttered brown bread. 



LESSON XXXVII. 
' Freezing. 

For notes on freezing, see Lesson 37, first year. 

Ice Cream. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. sugar. 1 pt. milk. 

H tsp. salt. 1 qt. cream. ' 

1 tbsp. vanilla. 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and slightly beaten egg. Then scalded milk 
gradually. Cook over hot water IS min., stirrimg constantly at 'first. 
When cool add cream and flavoring. Strain and freeze. 



INDEX 



A PAGE 

Acids .' 34 

Albumen 14 

Alkalies 34 

Asparagus 38 

Apples — Baked ' 12 

Apple Dumplings 60 

Apple Fritters 59 

Apple Sauce 12 

Apple Water 11 

Apricot Jelly 12 

B 

Bacon— Pan Broiled 17 

Baking Powder Biscuit 34 

Baking Powder Notes 34 

Batters 35 

Beans' — Boston Baked 56 

Beans — Notes . . 56 

B'eans — String 38 

Beef Croquettes : SO 

Beef Chart 21 

Beef Cuts : 21 

Beef Juice 46 

Beef — Notes ♦. 20 

Beef— Roast ,. 49 

Beef— Pot Roast 22 

Beef Tea .46 

Blanc Mange 14 

Bread — Baking of 32 

Bread — Boston Brown 57 

Sread — Corn 35 

Bread Crumbs • 9 

Bread^Entire Wheat 33 

Bread — Fried 3S 

Bread — Notes. . 31 

Bread^Oatmeal . ■ • 57 

Bread — Pudding S8 

Bread Recipe ^- '^^' co 

Bread — Uses of 58 

Broiling — Notes ■ =1 

Butter— Drawn T 48 

C 

Cabbage — Boiled 28 

Ca'bbage — Scalloped • 28 

Cabbage — Notes. . . 27 

Cake — Berwick Sponge 62 

Cake — Coffee 58 

Cake — ^^Cup • 37 

Cake— Gold 6-i 

Cake— Mother's 62 

Cake— Notes ' r ■ ■ • ■ 36, 37, 61 

Cake — One Egg 27 

Cake— Silver .- 63 



11 

PAGE 

Cake — Sour Milk Chocolate 60 

Cake— Sour Milk Spice • 60 

Cake — To Bake Butter Cake 36 

Cake— To Fill Pans 37 

Cake — To Mix Butter Cakes 36 

Cake — To Mix Sponge Cakes 62 

Canning 43 

.Canning — General Rules 43 

Canning— =To Sterilize Jars and Rubbers i 43 

Caramel Syrup 44 

Cereals — Notes 29 

Cereals — Cream of Wheat ; 30 

Cereals — Rolled Oats . 29 

Cheese — Dutch 1 j 

Cheese — Notes 30 

Chicken — Creamed 53 

Chicken — Roast 53 

Chocolate 13 

Chops — Pan Broiled 52 

Codfish — Creamed 16 

Codfish Balls 48 

■Coflfee— Notes ' 10 

Coffee Recipe 10 

Combining Ingredients — Methods of 8 

Cookies — Oatmeal 37 

Cookies — Plain 61 

Cookies — Notes 59 

Cookies— Sour Milk 59 

Cookies — Sour Milk Ginger 59 

Cooking — Methods of . . ^ 7 

Corn Bread "35 

Corn Fritters ': 59 

Corn Meal Mush 29 

Corn Muffins 35 

Cornmeal — Notes 29 

Cranberries 12 

Cream for Sponge Cake 62 

Cream of Wheat 30 

Croutons . . . ' 9 

Crumbs — To Butter 9 

Cottage Pie ; 22 

Cottage Pudding .....; 36 

Custard — Baked . . , 16 

Custard — Boiled IS , 

Custard — Caramel '. . . .~. 47 

D 

Drawn Butter 43 

Dried Beef j. 16 

Dried Fruits — Notes 11 

Doughs 35 

Dumplings — Apple 60 

Dumplings 24 

Dutch Apple Cake 61 

E 

Eggs — Hard CookeiJ I5 

Egg Nog , 46 

Eggs — Poached I5 

Eggs — Soft Cooked .' !5 



Ill 

F PAGE 

Fat — To Clarify 49 

Foods — Classification 6 

Food — Digestion of 6 

Figs — Stewed . 46 

Fish — Baked 48 

Fish Notes . • 47, . 48 

Fish Turbot 48 

French Rarebit . 45 

Freezing — Notes. ; 38, 66 

Fried Cakes— Sour Milk 60 

Fried Cakes — Potato 60 

Fritters— Apple 59 

' Fritters^Corn 59 

Frosting — Boiled 62 

Frosting — Chocolate 63 

Fruit ^-Canning 43 

Fruits — Dried . . 1 11 

Frying — Notes • 1 49 

G 

Gelatine — Notes , 11 

Gingerbread 34 

Gravy— Beef 22, 50 

Gravy — Chicken 53 

Griddle Cakes — Corn Meal . 34 

Griddle Cakes — Notes 33 

Griddle CaHes — Sour Milk 33 

/ H 

Ham and Eggs 17 

Hash 22 

Heat— Effects of Dry 9 

I 

Ice Cream . 65 

Ice — Lemon , .■ 39 

Ice — Pineapple . . . 39 

Invalid Cooking 45 

Jlnvalid Serving 46 

jelly — Notes 44 

Junket 13 

L 

Lamb — Notes 24 

Lemon Sauce 36 

Lemon Snowballs 36 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese 30 

Macaroni — Notes 30 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 30 

Meat Loaf 49 

Meat— Notes : ., 19 

Meat — Preserved 16 

Meat— Three Ways of Cooking 19 

Meringue . .■ 64 

Milk— Notes . ..w,:'*,.; , 12 

Minute Pudding . . ■'." " v 14 

Muffins — Corn ■ 35 

Muffins — Entire Wheat 35 

Muffins — One Egg , ■■ r 35 



IV 

PAGE 

Mush— Corn Meal 29 

Mutton— Braised 25 

Mutton Chart . . 24 

Mutton Cuts 24 

Mutton — Minced on Toast • • ■ ■ 25 

Mutton— Notes : 24 

'•'^ ' O 

Oats— Notes 29 

Oats— Rolled 29 

Omelette ■ 46 

Omelette — Beaten 47 

Omelette— Plain : '. 47 

Onions — Scalloped ' 54 

Onions — To Mince 26 

Oysters- — Notes 17 

Oysters — Scalloped 18 

Oysters-=^Soup . . 17 

P 

Parkerhouse Rolls ■ '....... 32 

Parsley — To Chop ' 26 

Paste— Plain 63 

Paste— No. II 64 

Pastry Notes , 63 

Peach Cobbler 61 

Pectin : , ,, 44 

Pie — Apple 64 

Pie — Lemon , 64 

Pork — Notes SO 

Pork Chart 51 

Pork Cuts : 51 

Potatoes — Notes 25 

Potatoes — Baked 26 

Potatoes — Boiled 25 

Potatoes — Cakes : 26 

Potatoes — Lyonnaise 26 

Potatoes — Mashed , 26 

Potatoes — Monte Carlo 53 

Potato — Salad ' 29 

Potatoes — Souffle 53 

Potatoes — Stewed 26 

Poultry Notes 52 

Pudding — Cottage . 36 

Pudding — ^Graham 64 

Pudding-^Suet 65 

R 

Rice — Notes 29 

Rice and Cheese 31 

Rice Pudding 14 

Rice — Steamed '. ^ 29 

Rolls — Parkerhouse , . 32 

Rolls — To Shape , .C'".!;;: . . :i ...... 32 

S "''"' 

Salad — Notes .\ ...... : 28 

Salad Dressing — Boiled ; 55 56 

Salad Dressing — Cooked , '28 

Salad Dressing — French 55 

Salad — Macedoinfe ^'j 

Salad — Potato 29 



V 

PAGE 

Salad — Salmon ^ ,!,i 55 

Salad— Veal ,v 55 

Salmon Loaf V ^9 

Sandwiches — Beef, Raw 46 

Sandwiches— Brown Bread 66 

Sandwiches' — Egg 65 

Sandwiches — Ham 66 ' 

Sandwiches^Lettuce 65 

gandwiches — Relish 66 

Sandwiches — Sardine 65 

Sauce — Caramel ". 47 

Sauce — Foamy 65 

Sauce — Hard 65 

Sauce — Lemon 36 

Sauce — Puddding : .'. 61 

Sauce — Tomato .' 30 , 

Sauce— White 19, 28, 44, SO 

Sauce — Yellow 59 

Sausage in Casings , 17 

Sausage Meat 17 

Sefvice — Table 3 

Serving — Rules for 5 

Shortcake 38 

Souffle— Prune 47 

Soups r....l8, 19 

Soup; — Celery 44 

Soup— Pea 44 

Soup— Potato 18 

Soup — To Clear 20 

Soup — Tomato ■ 19 

Soup — Vegetable 20 

Starch— Notes 25 

Steak— Broiled 52 

Stearning 56 

Sterilizing 43 

^tock ' 19, 20 

Stuffing S3 

Sugar 43 

■Syrup— Caramel 44 

T 

Tapioca 54 

Tapioca — Apple 54 

Tapioca— Cream •■ ■ 34 

Tea— Notes v 10 

Tea — Recipe 10 

Toast^Milk 14 

Toast — Water 11 

Tomatoes — Canned •• 43 

Tomato Sauce - 30 

; Tomatoes — Scalloped '■ 54 

Tomato Soup 19 

Tomatoes — Stewed . . 54 

Turbot— Fish - 48 

Turnip — Notes 27 

Turnips in White Sauce 28 



V PAGE 

Veal— Notes •..•.;...... 22 

Veal— Chart 23 

Veal— Cuts 23 

Veal— Baked SO 

Veal— Breaded . . SO 

Veal— Stew 23 

Vegetables — Time-Table for Cooking 27 

Vegetables — Soup : • 20 

Vegetables — Spring 38 

W 

Water 9 

.Welsh Rarebit 45 

Weights and Measures 8 

Wheat Notes : : 32 

Y 

Yeast — Notes 31 

GENERAL NOTES— 

Care of Dish Towels and Cloths 4 

Care of Refrigerator ". 5 

Care of Sink 4 

Cleanliness and Cleaning i 3 

Digestion of Food t. 6 

Dishwashing 4 

Elements and Compounds •. 3 

Food Chart 6 

Fire— To Build ,' 3 

Hints on How to Work...;- 7 

Methods of Combining Ingredients. 8 

Methods of Cooking 7 

Personal Cleanliness 7 

Physical and Chemical Changes 3 

Rules ■ for Serving '. S 

Table Service .....:.. 5 

Weights and Measures 8 



