pasttyjSooU 





H\ 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000657522 



Cornell University Library 
TX 773.R51 



Paul Richard's pastry book. 




3 1924 000 657 522 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



■4\/^ 



77 3 



PAUL RICHARD'S 

PASTRY BOOK 

Comprising Breads, Cakes, Pastries, Ices 
and Sweetmeats. Especially Adapted for 
Hotel and Catering Trades. The Most 
Complete Book of Its Kind. Thoroly 
Practical and Up-to-Date. Fully Indexed 




Published by 
THE HOTEL MONTHLY PRESS 

JOHN WILLY, Inc. 

123 North Wacker Drive 

Chicago 6, III. 



PRINTED IN U.S.A. 



I. 

773 






PREFACE 



TN this book I have endeavored, to the best of my ability, to tell how to 
make breads, cakes, pastries, ices, creams, and candies for the baker, 
pastry cook, and confedlioner ambitious to do good v?ork. My own success 
in this business is due to a careful study, of the materials and to painstaking 
work covering a period of twenty-five years in places where good work was 
demanded. 

My objea in writing this book is to improve the standard of pastry work, 
and to raise the pastry cook to a higher plane by enabling him to command 
higher wages than have heretofore been customarily paid; also to elevate the 
bread and pastry cooking to the plane of high-class meat cooking. 

The making of the book has been a labor of love, and my earnest desire 
nxjw is that the work shall bear fruit by popularizing, not alone the consump- 
tion of pastry, but also the profession of pastry making. 

Facl Richards. 




PART I. 



FRUIT JELLIES AND PRESERVES . . . JAMS, JELLIES COMPOTES AND SYRUPS , 
PRESERVED CRUSHED FRUITS FOR SHERBETS AND ICES . . . PRESERV- 
ING OF PIE FRUITS . . . SUGAR BOILING DEGREES . . . COLORS. 



FRUIT JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Not many hotels make their own preserves and 
fruit jellies, and high prices are paid for these 
goods by hotelkeepers to get them first-class to 
please their patrons. 

The reason why preserving is not more prac- 
ticed is because the already preserved fruit can 
often be bought cheaper than it can be made in 
the hotels, for the reason that good table fruit al- 
ways commands a high price in large cities, while 
the manufacturers of preserves have plants right 
in the heart of the fruit growing districts and get 
the best fruit at half the price, consequently can 
put them up cheaper and profit by it. 

All fruit for preserving should be fresh and of 
uniform ripeness, therefore has to be carefully 
sorted to get good results. It is a mistake often 
made in hotels, trying to make good preserves out 
of fruit that is overripe and beginning to spoil, 
because the least speck of decay will be the cause 
of spoiling the whole batch. Only good sound 
fruit is fit for this purpose. 

For preserving on a small scale the common 
one- and two-quart glass jars are the best; for jell- 
ies the smaller glasses with tin covers do very well. 

After putting up, the fruits must be kept in cool 
dry places of even temperature, or in dark clos- 
ets, because light injures fruits just as much as 
heat does. If put up in glasses, wrap in paper; 
label, date and mark on it the cost price, so that 
it can be charged without much trouble to the 
department it is used in. 

The process by which the preserves known in 
the market as "candied fruits" or "fruits glaces" 
are made, is an art in itself, which can only be 
learned and mastered by lorg experience. These 
goods come mostly from Southern France. At- 
tempts are made in California in this line of pre- 
serving, but with very little success. The Cali- 
fornia fruits are hard and too much dried and 
cannot be compared with the French fruits glaces. 

The main thing to be done in this process is to 
extract the juice of the fruit and replace it with 
«ugar, so it keeps its original form. The fruits, 
after being blanched, are put in a strong syrup of 
clarified sugar, left in it from ten to fourteen days. 



then syrup and fruit is placed over the fire and 
heated to a certain degree, (just to the boiling 
point) skimmed and set aside for ten days more, 
and put through the same process three or four 
times. When the fruit has taken up enough sugar 
it is taken out, washed in pure water and then fin- 
ished by dipping in a thick syrup and dried; after- 
ward it is packed in the light wooden boxes in 
which it is sold. 

The other preserves which come here (mostly 
in long white glasses as imported goods from 
Europe) are made by a similar process, which 
takes from three to five days and is as follows: 
Peaches, apricots, pears and quinces are peeled, 
cut in halves or quarters, the stones or seeds 
taken out, put in cold water to prevent losing 
color. A plated knife should be used for peeling 
and slicing (as steel is apt to discolor); and hard 
and green fruits should be softened in boiling 
water and put again in cold water. When this is 
finished the fruit is blanched, as it is termed; 
then begins the preserving. 

The fruit is taken out of the cold water, drained 
in a hair or cane sieve, put into boiling syrup and 
given two or three boils; then put in earthen pans 
and set aside till next day. The next day it is 
heated and the syrup drained off. When the 
syrup is boiling add a little more sugar, put in the 
fruit and let come to a boil, then set aside till 
next day. On the third day the syrup is drained 
off again and more sugar added (because the 
sugar gets weakened by the fruit juice) and boiled 
to the soft ball, as it is termed; put in the fruit, 
let come to a bcil, skim the syrup carefully, then 
take out the fruit and put in glasses, the hot 
syrup poured over and the glasses closed up air- 
tight. Peaches and apricots are finished in this 
way in three days, but pears and quinces take 
four and five days to get them clear and trans- 
parent. Watermelon rind (the white rind) if pre- 
pared in this way makes a nice preserve if some 
lemon or orange peel is added. Plums, cherries, 
strawberries and raspberries are prepared in the 
same way. 

There is another way of putting up fruit which 
takes less time and labor and is practiced in fam- 



a PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADB, CAKES, PASTRIES. ICES AND SWEETMEATS 

ilies with good results. It is more like the pro- fire and boil till it £alls in clots from the spatula, 

cess used in large canning establishments and is then put up as directed above. 

done in two ways — either the fruit is boiled in ^ STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY JAMS 

syrup for twelve to twenty-five minutes, and then 'R.-kHq the berries through a sieve. Take one 

put in heated glasses and closed up air-tight; or pound of sugar for the strawberries, and twelve 

the fruit is put in glasses (peaches, pears and ounces for the raspberries, for each pint of pulp, 

quinces already blanched; berries are put in in Boil till they begin to jelly and adhere to the skim- 



their natural state), the glasses filled with syrup, 
the covers put on, then set in a bain marie or a 
large pan of cold water with some straw under and 
between to prevent breaking. Put on the fire and 
let gradually come to a boil; and from the time it 
comes to the boil — from twelve to twenty-five 
minutes, according to the ripeness or kind of fruit 
(berries from ten to twelve minutes, also ripe 
peaches and apricots; pears and quinces twenty 
to twenty-five minutes). The water should come 
up to the neck of the glasses and a lid or board 
put on to prevent them turning over. Then they 
are taken out and the covers closed tight. Let 
them cool slowly and tighten the covers again as 
they get cold. Fruits put up this way will keep 
for years, provided the proper care has been tak- 
en, first in selecting and preparing the fruit, and, 
secondly, if they are kept in the proper place. I 
would advise to look after the preserves once a 
week for the first month; after this once a month, 
and in case any of it should show signs of fer- 
mentation, to either use them or boil them over. 
Very little sugar is needed for this way of pre- 
serving; it varies from six to sixteen ounces for 
the quart of fruit; it depends if they are used for 
pies or for table fruits. 

* 
* * 

JAMS, JELLIES, COMPOTES AND SYRUPS. 

Marmalades or Jams are the pulp of fruits, 
boiled with sugar to a certain consistency. The 
fruit is crushed, and for each pint of pulp is added 
from twelve to sixteen ounces of sugar, then 
boiled together till clear. When it coats the 
spoon and falls in clots from the spatula it is 
ready. 

The proper point may also be ascertained by 
dropping some on a cold plate; if it sets soon it is 
ready. 

Jam must be constantly stirred while it is cook- 
ing, to prevent sticking to the vessel and burning. 
When done, put up in jars, with a piece of 
brandied paper over and the lid put on; or paper 
securely tied over to form a cover. 

1.— APPLE MARMALADE OR JAM. 
Pare and core some good juicy apples; put in 
preserving pan with enough water to cover the 
fruit, let boil slow till they are reduced tc a mash, 
then pass through a colander. To each pound of 
pulp add twelve ounces of sugar; put back on the 



mer. Be careful to take off all the scum that 
rises. Fill in to glasses, and when cool put over 
it brandied paper and covers. 

3.— CURRANT JAM. 

Mash four quarts of currants and two quarts of 
raspberries; add to each pint of pulp one pound 
sugar. Stir till it jellies, and put up like Rasp- 
berry Jam (No. 2). 

4.— GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE— BAR LE 
DUG JELLY. 

Take the berries before they are ripe, either red 
or green. Remove tops and stems. Cut the berries 
and remove the seeds. Take for each pound of 
berries one pound of sugar. Boil slow till the 
fruit is perfectly clear and begins to jelly (about 
thirty minutes). Fill into glass tumblers. When 
cold cover with brandied paper and put on the 
cover. 

To white berries a little red currant juice may 
be added for color. The fruit should not be 
stirred very much during cooking. 

5— GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take ripe berries, wash and remove tops and 
stems. For each pound of berries take twelve 
ounces of sugar. Crush the berries and mix with 
the sugar. Let boil and keep stirring constantly 
till it falls in clots from the spatula. Put up like 
the other jams (see No. 2). 

6 —BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Pick over and clean the berries. Add for each 
pound of fruit eight to twelve ounces of sugar. 
Mix all together, but add no water. Heat slow 
until it boils, and keep on stirring until it thick- 
ens, which takes from thirty to forty five min- 
utes. Put up like other jams (see No. 2). 
7.— GRAPE JAM. 

Break the grapes, saving the skins. Heat the 
pulp for a couple of minutes, but do not let it 
boil; strain through sieve to remove the seads; 
add the skins and take twelve ounces of sugar to 
each pound of pulp. Boil till it thickens and 
jellies, then put up in jars. 

8.— QUINCE JAM. 

Pare, core and slice the fruit. Take the peel, 
core and seeds, cover with water and boil til! 
soft, then strain through a cloth. Put the sliced 
fruit in the liquid and boil together till soft. Rub 
through a colander. Then to each pint of pulp 
add twelve ounces of sugar. Boil till it thickens, 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 3 

A nice preserve is made from half apples and 17. — RASPBERRY JELLY. 

haU quinces in this manner. Make like the Currant Jelly (No. 16), using one 

9- — CRAB APPLE JAM. quart of currants to four quarts of raspberries. 

Preserve like the Quinces (see No. 8). 18.— CHERRY JELLY. 

10.— CHERRY JAM. Take nice tart cherries. Take one pound of 

Stem and stone the fruit. For each pottod of sugar to each pint of juice and boil as directed in 
pulp take twelve ounces of sugar and soma of the Currant Jelly (No. 16). 
crushed pits for flavoring. Boil slowly till h 19.— APPLE JELLY. 

jellies, then put in jars. Take nice tart apples, juicy and of good flavor. 

For sour cherries, take one pound of sugar to Cut in slices, cover with water and boil to a soft 

one pound of cherries. mash. Strain through a cheese-cloth. Put a 

II.— PEACH AND APRICOT JAMS. pound of sugar to every pound of juice. Boil for 

Take very ripe fruit. Peel the peaches, (or about twenty minutes, till it jellies. Drop some 
plunge in boiling water a moment, to make the on a cold plate; if it sets scon it is done, 
skin come off easy). Cut in small pieces, for CRABAPPLE JELLY may be made in the 
each pint of pulp take twelve ounces of sugar; let same manner. QUINCE, PEACH, APRICOT 
boil and stir constantly till it jellies; then put in and PLUM JELLY are prepared the same way as 
J^'s- Apple Jelly. 

«,* "--GREEN GAGE PLUM JAM. "^ ' L-CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Stone the fruit; cut up m pieces, and boil with ^over the berries with water and boil till soft: 
twelve ounces of sugar to each pint till it jellies; ...v u- t? u-,.f-i.i 

^, . . ° '^ * ' sttam through sieve. For each pint of mice take 

then put up in jars. . , " v -i ^n -^ f j • n- 

'^ '^ „„.„„„,, „ , . twelve ouHces sugar; boil till it clears and jellies. 

13.-ORANGE MARMALADE .x. -GRAPE JELLY. 

Take equal weights of sour oranges and sugar. ^i ^r. jiji,,.j iu-« 

_ ^ ^. , , ,, . . „ ., , Break up the grapes and scald, but do not boil. 

Cut the oranges and press out the juice. Boil the » . .i. - ■ j • ^u i. • a- 1 

1 ■ i ^-11 -1 ■ i J .L . Let the juice drain through a sieve. Take one 

peel in water till it is tender, then scrape out the , . . , . ° , . . , , ., 

• -J /-. 1 .^L ■ J • 11 ., . .. pound of sugar to each pint of juice and boil as 

inside. Cut the rind in small thin slices, or j. , •■ - ^, ,. , 1 1 ,xt c^ 

, . ^ directed for Currant Jelly (No. 16). 

pound in a mortar. # 

Boil sugar and juice to a syrup; add the peel PRESERVED CRUSHED*FRUITS FOR SHER- 

Sse° "" "" " '"' " BETS AND ICES. 

14.— PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 2S.— PRESERVED CRUSHED BERRIES. 

Pare and grate the pineapple. To each pound Select choice ripe fruit; pick over carefully. 
of pulp add one pound of sugar. Boi! till it ^°' berries, lub the fruit through a sieve, or put 
thickens and gets clear. Put up in jars. through the fruit press. To each pound of pulp 

ig FRUIT JELLIES ^^^ from six to eight ounces of sugar, and mix 

are the juice of fruits, made dear by filtering, "^11 together. Fill into bottles and set in a pan 

and, with an equal weight of sugar, are boiled in- filled '''"> "^'^"^ "P t° *^ '^^^ °* *-^° bottles 

to a jelly. '"'th some straw under and between the bottles). 

16.— CURRANT JELLY. Put on the fire and let gradually come to a boil. 

Pick off the stems. Crush and place on the Let boil for about ten to twelve minutes, then 
fire. Scald but do not boil. Let cool and strain, cork and tie down with a string or wire and keep 
Filter the juice through a flannel bag. Take one in a dark cool place. 

pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil the 23— PRESERVED CRUSHED CHERRIES, 
sugar in a separate pan to the SOFT BALL, Cherries may be preserved in the same man- 
which is found by dipping the finger in cold ner as (No. 22). 

water, then quickly in the boiling syrup and back 24.— PRESERVED CRUSHED PEACHES, 
in the cold water. The sugar on the finger will APRICOTS AND PLUMS. 

form a little soft ball when rolled between the Plunge the fruit in boiling water for a moment, 
fingers. to remove the skin, or peel the fruit. Cut up in 

Put the boiling fruit juice and sugar together, halves and boil with a little water till soft. Rub 
stirring constantly; it will jelly in from three to through a sieve and add six to eight ounces of 
five minutes and coat the skimmer. Put a drop sugar to each pint of pulp. Fill into bottles like 
on a cold plate; if it sets soon it is dene. Fill in- the berries (No. 22). Boil in the bottles for fifteen 
to heated glasses at once. When cold, put on minutes, then cork and tie down. 
paper and covers. 25.— PRESERVED CRUSHED FRUITS, 

The currant jelly is improved by adding some WITHOUT SUGAR, 

raspberry juice to boil with the currants. The berries and other fruits may also be pre- 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



served without the use of sugar, by boiling the 
fruit in the bottles for about thirty minutes and 
seal as usual. 

26.— CRUSHED RASPBERRIES AND 
STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED COLD. 

Raspberries and strawberries may also be pre- 
served cold, for creams and ices; but have to be 
kept in a cold dry storage of even temperature. 

Take ripe berries, crush and rub through a fine 
sieve. With each pint of pulp mix two pounds of 
sugar; mix well together and fill into bottles. 
Cork, tie down and keep in cool place. 

27.— PRESERVING OF PIE FRUITS. 

Pie fruits require less sugar than is generally 
used in the richer preserves. For a medium 
sweet preserve use the sugar as given in the table 
below. For each quart of fruit use: 



Strawberries, 


8 ounces of sugar 


Raspberries, 
Blackberries, 


6 " ' 
6 " 






Blueberries, 


6 " 






Gooseberries, 


8 " 






Cranberries, 


10 " ' 






Cherries, 


8 " 






Grapes, 
Apples, 
Peaches, 


8 " 
6 " 
6 " 






Quinces, 


10 " ' 






Pears, 


8 " 






Plums, 


8 '■ 






Rhubarb, 


12 " ' 







Prepare the fruit after the method as given in 
the general instructions at the beginning of these 
receipts, by either boiling in the syrup and filling 
into the glasses; or put the fruit in the glasses 



COTS are peeled and stewed or baked whole, 
cut in halves or slices and stewed till tender. 

CHERRIES are pitted or stewed whole. BER- 
ries are picked over, washed and stewed whole. 
PLUMS and CHERRIES are often stewed with 
the stalks on them. The plums should be pricked 
all over with a pin to prevent the breaking of the 
skin. 

To preserve the whiteness of the fruits: AP- 
PLES, QUINCES and PEARS, the peeled fruit, 
should be put in cold water before preserving. 
The skin of ripe PEACHES and APRICOTS is 
easily removed by dipping in boiling water for a 
moment. The green fruits should be peeled. 
For compotes the fruit should be stewed tender, 
so as to keep whole and in shape. 

29.— COMPOTE OF WHOLE APPLES. 

Peel and core the apples. Put in flat sauce 
pan, with a stick of cinnamon, the peel and juice 
of one lemon. Cover with a thin syrup, made with 
two pounds of sugar to two quarts of water. Let 
stew slowly till tender. Take the apples out ol 
the syrup and place in a shallow dish. Boil the 
syrup down to half and pour over the apples in the 
dish, after removing the peel and cinnamon. Set 
to cool and serve. The apples may be served 
plain or with whipped cream. 

30.— BAKED COMPOTE OF APPLES. 

Peel and core the apples, put close together in 
a pan and pour over a syrup made as in the re- 
ceipt No. 29. Put in the oven and bake till done. 
Flavor with lemon or nutmeg and serve in the 
syrup. 

For variety, the core of the apples may be filled 
with chopped almonds, nuts, other fruits, or fruit 



and fill up with hot syrup. Set the jar in warm J^™' 3°"^ decorated with cherries and angelique; 



water with the cover on and boil till the fruit gets 
tender. Have the jars filled to the brim, remove 
from the water, put on the rubber, tighten the 
cover, then let cool and put away. 

Where fruit is used in large quantities, it may 
be put up in large jars which hold from one to 
ten gallons. Take jars with narrow necks, heat 
and scald well, and fill in the fruit right from the 
preserving kettle. Fill up to the neck. Put in 
over the fruit a brandied paper, then pour over a 
layer of melted parafSne and cover up. The jars 
should not be moved about very much as there is 
danger of loosening the parafl&ne cover by so doing. 
28.— COMPOTE OF FRUITS. 

The fruits are preserved in a light syrup and are 
put in bowls or jars for immediate use. Either 
fresh or dried fruit may be used for compotes. 
The dried fruits should be washed and soaked for 
several hours before stewing; and some fruit re- 
quire soaking over night. 

APPLES, PEARS, PEACHES and APRI- 



or served with a border of whipped cream. 
31.— SLICED COMPOTE OF APPLES. 

Cut the peeled and cored apples in slices, cover 
with water. To each quart of water take eight 
ounces of sugar; add the peel and juice of one 
lemon, also one stick cinnamon; stew slowly till 
tender; serve. 

32.— APPLE BRAISE. 

Prepare like for Sliced Compote No. 31. Use 
one pound of sugar to the quart of water; add 
half a pint of white wine, also add four ounces of 
currants, four ounces Sultana raisins and four 
ounces almonds, blanched and sliced, two ounces 
of butter, one stick cinnamon and one lemon peel. 
Stew till tender. Reduce the syrup and pour over. 
33— BAKED APPLES. 

Wash and core good baking apples; put in pan 
with some water and sugar. Bake in a medium 
heat till done; serve hot or cold. 

34— APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel, core and quarter the apples; stew with 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



some yratet till soft; sweeten and press through 
colander; serve hot or cold. 

35.— COMPOTE OF PEARS. 

Select nice pears; peel and divide in halves or 
quarters; remove the seeds and stew slowly in a 
light syrup with the juice of one lemon and a few 
whole cloves till tender. Take out of the syrup 
and put into a shallow dish. Eeduce the syrup 
and pour over the fruit; let cool and serve. 
36.— COMPOTE OF QUINCES. 

Peel and quarter the fruit and put in cold 
water. Boil the peel and core in some water till 
soft, then strain off the juice. Add one pound of 
sugar to each quart of the liquid. Let come to 
a boil, then add the sliced fruit and stew till 
tender. 

Sweet apples and quinces in equal portions 
make a nice compote stewed in this manner. 
37.— COMPOTE OF CHERRIES. 

Take sour cherries, remove the stems and 
stones and stew in a light syrup till clear. Serve 
cold. 

38— COMPOTE OF WHITE CHERRIES. 

Take nice sound cherries; cut the stalk in half 
and stew in a light syrup with a drop of almond 
flavor for five minutes. Take out carefully, re- 
duce the syrup to half and pour over; serve cold. 
39.— COMPOTE OF PEACHES & APRICOTS. 

Blanch and skin, or peel; cut in halves and boil 
slowly in a light syrup till tender; serve in the 
syrup. 

The peaches may also be stewed whole in the 
same way. 

40.— BAKED PEACHES. 

Wash and prick the fruit with a silver fork; put 
close together in a pan, add a little syrup and 
bake till soft. 

41.— COMPOTE OF PLUMS. 

Wash and prick all over, then stew in a thin 
syrup for about ten minutes from the time it be- 
gins to boil; let cool and serve. 

42.— COMPOTE OF FRESH PRUNES. 

Prepare like the plums No. 41. 
43.— COMPOTE OF DRIED PRUNES. 

Wash and soak the prunes over night in cold 
water. Take from the water and put into fresh 
water; add a few sli:es of lemon, a stick of cinna- 
mon and enough sugar to make a thin syrup; let 
boil very slow till the fruit has resumed the nat- 
ural shape, then take off the fire and let cool. 
Prunes should be handled carefully in serving, so 
as not to break the fruit. 

All other dried fruits should be prepared in the 
same manner. Peaches and pears sometimes re- 
quire twenty-four hours soaking. 

44.— COMPOTE OF CRANBERRIES. 

Wash and pick over. To each quart of berries 



add one pound of sugar and half pint of water to 
make a plain syrup; stew the berries slowly in the 
syrup till clear. To keep the berries whole do 
not stir much. 

45.— COMPOTE OF GOOSEBERRIES. 

Pick over and cut off tops and tails. To each 

quart of berries take one pound of sugar and half 

pint of water; stew till tender and serve. 

46.— COMPOTE OF STRAWBERRIES AND 

RASPBERRIES. 

(Also COMPOTE OF CURRANTS). 

Wash and drain the berries on a sieve. Boi 
three pounds of sugar with one pint of water till 
it forms a thread on the finger, or to a thick syrup. 
Put the berries in the boiling syrup and let boil 
for a moment. Take off the fire and let cool. 

Currants may be made into a compote in the 
same manner, 

47.— COMPOTE OF BLUEBERRIES. 

Wash and pick over the berries. Stew in a 
light syrup (one pound of sugar to one quart of 
water) till tender. Let cool and serve. 

48.— COMPOTE OF RHUBARB. 

Wash and peel the rhubarb; cut in even pieces 
and let boil for a few minutes. When nearly 
soft strain off the water. For each pound of rhu- 
barb take twelve ounces of sugar; put this in the 
water and boil to a syrup. Pour the syrup over 
the rhubarb and stew till tender. Let cool and 
serve. 

49.— COMPOTE OF PINEAPPLE. 

Pare and core the pineapple and cut in slices; 
simmer in a rich syrup till done snd clear. 
50.— COLD COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 
FRUIT SALADS. 

Fresh fruits may be prepared in salads, single 
or in a pleasant combination, from a variety of 
fruits. The fruit is put in alternate layers in 
compote dishes, and also in small individual 
dishes. 

51.— MACEDOINE SALAD. 

Take sliced pineapple cut in small pieces, peel- 
ed oranges sliced and with the seeds removed, 
sliced bananas, sliced peaches, a few strawberries 
or raspberries, (if not in season use a few maras- 
chino cherries). Sprinkle with powdered sugar; 
pour over some sherry wine; set on ice to cool; 
serve. 

52.— COLD COMPOTE OF ORANGES AND 
BANANAS. 

Prepare like the former recipe No. 51. Flavor 
with rum and decorate with cherries. 
53.— COMPOTE OF BANANAS, ORANGES 
AND COCOANUT. 

Put in alternate layers in compote dish; 
sprinkle with sugar, pour over some sherry or 
claret and flavor with rum. 



6 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

54.— COLD COMPOTE OF STRAWBERRIES. By leaving out the spirits, and adding extracts 

Sprinkle ripe large berries with powdered sugar, of orange or lemon, ginger, strawberry, etc., a 

and squeeze over the juice of sweet oranges (or variety of syrups can be made for the soda foun- 

use a aios port wine or sweet catawba in place of tain. Of course coloring, and, for soda syrups 

the Jmce). Set on ice to cool and serve. acid, from one to two ounces for each gallon ot 

55._COMPOTE OF ORANGES. "iyrup, must be added. Syrup prepared in this 

Peel the oranges. Take off all skin and white manner will keep in gco4 condition for a long 

pith. Cat in thin slices and remove the seeds, time, but should be kept well corked. 

Sprinkle with sugar and pour over some sherry 62. — TO PRESERVE LEMON AND ORANGE 

and a little maraschino. Set to cool and serve. PEEL. 

56— PINEAPPLE COMPOTE. jn place of buying candied orange and lemon 

Pare and core ripe pineapple and cut in thin peel, paying good money for it, the peel generally 

slices. Sprinkle with sugar and pour over some wasted and thrown away in making ices and sher- 

white wine, or squeeze over the juice of sweet bets can be made into a nice preserve, to be used 

oranges. Set to cool and serve. Ja the same manner as the bought peel. 

S7.— BRANDIED PEACHES. GRAPE FRUIT PEEL and MELON RINDS 

Get nice peaches and prick all over with a ^an also be preserved after this method, 

needle. Put in water and boil slow tii: so:t p^ 4^^ peels from which the juice has been 

enough to be pierced with a straw. Take the pressed, into cold water for three days. Change 

peaches and put carefully into a jar. Make a the water every day. Takeout and scoop out the 

syrup with one pint of water and two pounds of ^f^ jugj^jg p„jp_ put j^e pesis in water and boU 

sugar. Take o£E the fire and, while warm, add ^^^^ ^m ^^^y j-an be pierced with a straw. (Do 

to it one pint of brandy; pour this over the ^(,4 boji igmon and orange peel together, because 

peaches in the jar; cover and put away. jejnon softens much slower than orange peel), 

58.— FRUIT SYRUPS. ■vv^^en soft, strain ofi the water. 

To make al! kinds of syrups from fresh fruits. Make a syrup with one gallon of fresh water 

proceed and extract .he juice of the fruits in the and from ten to twelve pounds of sugar; let come 

same manner as given for Jellies. To four pints jg ^ boil; drop in the soft peel and let simmer for 

of pure fruit juice, add four pints of water and fifteen minutes. Put syrup and peel into a large 

eight pounds of sugar. Heat slowly to a boil, jar and let cool. 

take off the scum and fill into bottles while hot; The next day strain off the syrup; let come to a 

cork and tie down. j^j,^ ^^^ t^e pgei and put back into the jar. This 

Other syrups are made without fruit juices, may be repeated once more the next day; but two 

They are flavored with essential oils or extracts, boilings are generally sufficient, and the peel will 

to which acids and the proper color is added. ^eep for a long time. 

59.— SIMPLE SYRUPS. p„t ^ china plate in the syrup, on top of the 

The simple syrups are used for many purposes peei, to keep it under the syrup. Cover and keep 

in the pastry room. The syrup is mixed with |jj ^ ^qqI pia^e. 

fruit juices for ices and creams; also used in con- gyrup left over after the peel is used can be re- 

cection with liquors to macerate fruits, etc. The boiled and used over again for the same purpose. 

syrups are made of different degrees of richness. g —WATERMELON RINDS 

60.— SIMPLE SYRUPS NO. I. „ 1 .1, • j j . « .v t. ■ '-j, 

_ ... , , , Peel the rinds and cut off the soft inside part. 

Put together eight pounds of sugar and two /^ . . „ - j v •. ■ . ..,. 

° ? .,..,,,, , Cut m small even pieces, and boil m water till 

quarts of water; mix with it the half beaten whites , , „, , r /-> -n. ■ .-..t 

^, ,,.,.. . tender. Make a syrup as for Orange Peel (No 

of two eggs; set on a slow fire and let simmer for , , n i. • .^u i,. ■ j j ■ 

. °° . , , . „ , , 62). Put m the soft rmd and some lemon or 

ten minutes; strain through a lelly bag and put , t a t ^ • ■ ., 

. , , , o J * o r orange peel for flavor. Let simmer in the syrup 

away m bottles for use. ..„ , ., ^ . ■ r> ■, . ., 

61.-SIMPLE SYRUPS NO. 2. *'" «=''"• '^f ° P"*;° ^":- ^°' ^^ "». "if =r P 

„, , , , , ,, . once more the next day, then put back in the lars. 

Take twelve pounds of sugar and one gallon of ... . 

•^, , , . ^ , , ^ close and put away for use. 

boiling water; add the jmce of one lemon, or a , ^„.. ■, . ,,„ „„ 

!.„, ! . ■ -J . . ■ • ex • 64.— LEMON AND ORANGE EXTRACTS, 

little tartaric acid to prevent graining. Strain J* -^^^^^^y^xj. 

., 1. ■ 1. u 1 ,. 1 J 4 Peel the yellow rind of the fruit and cut in thin 

through a jel.y bag, let cool and put away. r, • 

Both syrups are used at the bars for mixing **"P^- P"' ^ bottles and fill up with proof alco- 

drinks; and, by the addition of extracts and one ^°^- ^^' ^.'^""^ ^°^ ^'"° ^s«^^- ^'^'^in and put in 

quart of spirits to even parts of syrup, for fruit bottles again. 

juices and spirits) all kinds of cordials can be One other way to preserve the essential oil of 

produced, such as creme de mentbe, noyeau, lemons and oranges is to rub the rind off on hard 

maraschino, rose, etc. loaf sugar; or grate the rind carefully (only the 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK CV BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



outside yellow skin) on granulated sogar, as much 
OM the sugar will take up. Let dry; crush fine 
sad put away in jars ready for use, 

65.— EXTRACT OF VANILLA. 

Vanilla bean, 16 ounces; 

Sugar, 24 ounces; 

Alcohol, 5 pints; 

Water, 3 pints. 

Cut the vanilla into very small pieces. Mix 
the alcohol and water and pour onto the cut up 
beans four pints of the mixture. Put in large 
bottle and let stand for ten days, shaking it fre- 
quently. Then strain ofi the liquid and put the 
vanilla into a mortar with the sugar and pound is 
into a powder. Mix this with the remaining four 
pints of the mixed alcohol and water. Let dis- 
solve well and filter; then mix both liquors to- 
gether and filter again; then put away for use. 
S6.— RASPBERRY EXTRACT. 

One of the best raspberry flavors is obtained 
farom Orris root, which makes nice ices and can 
also be used to improve the flavor of canned 
berries. 

Take two and one half ounces of powdered Or- 
ris root, and put together with one pint of proof 
spirits in a well corked bottle; set in a warm 
place for from four to five days, shake it fre- 
quently and filter for use. 
« 

67.-SUGAR BOILING DEGREES. 

Sugar is boiled from 

Pearl to thread for syrup; 

Blow and feather for crystalization and con- 
serves; 

Ball, crack and caramel for candy and spun 
sugar work. 

It is divided into about sixteen different degrees, 
but without a certain standard for all, which is 
caused from the use of more or less glucose in the 
different recipes. The degrees can be ascertained 
by the use of the thermometer and also by the 
finger test. I give here eight of the degrees most 
generally used for syrups and candy making: 

DEGREES OP THERMOMETER. 

Pearl and small thread, 218 to 220 degrees. 

Large thread 

Blow - 

Softball - 

Hard ball - 

Small crack 

Hard crack - 

Caramel - 

The finger test: Put five pounds of sugar 
to boil with one quart of water on a good fire in a 
copper basin, and let come to a boil. Take off 
with a skimmer the scum which rises. Then, 
with a wet sponge, wash down the sides to pre- 



228 






-230 


11 


240 


242 


■ • 


244 


-250 


II 


2SS 


260 






-285 


II 


315 


320 


f 1 


360 



vent graining. Be careful that the fire does not 
brown the sugar on the sides of the pan and dis- 
color the sugar. 

Small thread: When the syrup has boiled 
for some time, dip the top of the finger in the 
syrup, and test between the thumb and forefinger. 
If it can be drawn into a fine thread which breaks 
if drawn out, it has reached the proper degree. 

Large thread: Continue boiling and try 
again as before, until the thread can be pulled 
to the full spread of the fingers before it breaks. 

Blow degree: Dip the skimmer in the sugar 
and blow through the boles. If bubbles appear, 
it has reached the degree. 

Soft ball: To test the ball degree, take a 
pan with ice water. First dip the finger in the 
water, then in the sugar, and as quick as possible 
back in the water. (A stick may be used in place 
of the finger for this purpose). Try the sugar, 
and if it can be formed into a soft small ball it 
has reached the degree. 

Hard ball: A little more boiling, and by th« 
same test it will form a larger and harder ball. 

Small crack: The boiling is continued. Test 
again and press the sugar flat between the fing- 
ers; if it breaks, or bites hard and does not stick to 
the teeth, it has attained the proper degree. 

Hard crack: If the sugar breaks short and 
crisp with a snap, it has reached the degree. 

Caramel: In a few moments more the sugar 
will turn to a golden color, and this is the cara- 
mel degree. Take o£E the fire and turn out on 
the marble at once. 

A little more boiling and the sugar begins to 
smoke, turn dark brown, then black and burn. 

At this stage it is used for coloring. Water is 
added and it is boiled into a syrup and put in 
bottles for use. 

COLORS. 
68.— COCHINEAL. 
Take one ounce of cochineal; 
Half ounce of alum; 
Half ounce of salts of tartar; 
Two ounces of cream of tartar. 
Powder all well together and add three pints of 
water. Let come to a boil in a granite or copper 
vessel. Add eight ounces sugar and stir till cool. 
Mix with half a gill of alcohol, strain and pat ia 
bottles; cork and put away for use. 
69.— CARMINE. 
Powder one ounce of carmine; dilute with half a 
gill of water and half a gill alcobsl and put in 
bottles. 

70.— YELLOW. 
One ounce of powdered Turmeric and half a 
pint of water and alcohol. Put in bottle, let 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Stand in a warm place for three days or more and 
filter for use. 

71.— SAFFRON YELLOW. 
Safiron has a pronounced flavor of its own, and 
is not suitable for ail purposes. Boil one ounce 
of Spanish safiron slowly in one pint of water, till 
it is reduced to half a pint. Mix with half a gill 
alcohol, strain and bottle. 

72.— GREEN. 
Green color can be made from the juice of spin- 
ach, by chopping and pressing the juice in a towel, 
and mixing with some syrup and a pinch of alum. 
But it is better and more practical to buy it from 
responsible dealers. 



73.— COLORED SUGAR. 

Colored sugar in the best form, Nonpareil 
Sugar, can be made only by the practical candy 
maker with machinery. But plain colored sugar 
may be made from coarse granulated sugar. 

Sift the sugar to remove the fine grains, put in a 
shallow pan and add some desired color, mix well 
together, set in a warm place and stir till the sugar 
is dry. Put in bottles for use. 

Dessicated cocoanut, which is cut rather fine, 
can be shaded into the various colors, and dried 
like the sugar. 

Almonds may be blanched, cut, or chopped fine, 
and colored green and flavored with pistachio ex' 
tract, to represent pistachio nuts. 



END OF FIRST PART. 



PART 3. 



PASTRY AND PIE MAKING, PASTES AND FILLINGS . . . PASTRY CREAMS. PATTY 
CASES, TARTS AND TARTLETS . . . ICINGS. 



74-PASTRY AND PIE MAKING, PASTES 
AND FILLINGS. 

The flour should be a good winter wheat or 
pastry flour. 

The bread flours made from hard spring wheat 
are not suitable for pastry. 

The butter should be firm and tough. 

Butter which contains cheese and is curdly 
makes only poor puff paste. 

For pie paste the lard should be fresh and 
firm, and the pastes should be mixed with cold 
water, and worked up in a cold place till they are 
ready to be baked. 

To prevent the shrinking of pufE paste, it should 
rest after it is made ready for the oven, and be 
kept in a cold place from fifteen to thirty minutes. 

The baking of pastry requires a brisk heat, 
FuS Paste from 400 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, 
and Pie Paste from 350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 

Puff paste should not be baked with other 
goods which make steam, because this prevents 
rising; and when the goods (patties or pies) are 
baked up, the heat may be decreased by opening 
the damper to prevent taking too much color. 

To bake patties and other puff paste goods, the 
pans should be wetted with water and not greased. 

For pie paste the tins and tart forms require 
greasing. 

The pie fillings should be cold when used. A 
warm filling would cause the shrinking of the top 
crust and spoil the paste. 

In pie making two kinds of paste are generally 
used. The paste which is to form the top crust 
is made richer than the paste used for the bottom, 
because the rich crust would become soggy if used 
for the bottom. The trimmings left over are used 
for bottoms the next day. 

For custard pies, the paste should be worked 
different. It is best to use a regular short paste, 
as given later on in the recipes. 

The habit of using pie trimmings for custard 
pies, working in more flour, makes a tough taste- 
less crust unfit to eat. The trimmings can be 
used to better advantage for fruit pies, 

The bottoms for cream and lemon pies can be 
made from any of the top or bottom paste, and 
also from custard pie paste. 



To obtain a nice deep baked crust, roll out the 
bottom a little thicker than usual, trim the sides, 
and prick the paste all over with a fork, to prevent 
blistering; dust with a little flour and place an 
empty pie tin with a clean bottom on top of the 
paste (the bottom of the tin may be greased 
lightly to prevent adhering to the paste). Put 
the bottoms in the oven and bake. When the 
paste which shows between the two tins begins to 
color, the top tin may be removed and the baking 
finished in one tin. 

The cream and lemon fillings for open pies 
should be filled in the baked bottoms while hot. 
The custard pies require a slower heat in baking 
than the fruit pies; and for deep pies of this kind, 
it is preferable to warm the milk or custard in- 
stead of filling it ice cold into the pies. 

The filling of the pies is done in the oven. The 
bottoms are placed in the oven and the filling is 
done best with a dipper made for this purpose, to 
which a long wooden handle can be attached. If 
the custard is filled into the pies cold it begins to 
bake from the rim to the center; the outer part 
puffs up before the center is baked, and when 
taken from the oven the puffed up part of the 
custard falls down, because it is baked too much. 
The heating of the custard before filling in the 
pies prevents this, and causes the pie to bake 
more evenly. 

PIE AND TART FILLINGS. 

In the hotels a better and richer pie should be 
made than in the ordinary bakeries and cheap res- 
taurants, where the mixtures have to be made 
according to the prices they sell for to obtain a 
reasonable profit. 

Fresh fruit should be used as much as possible. 
It makes the best filling. When the fresh fruit 
gives out, then it is time to use preserved fruits, 
which are best if they are put up in the hotel. 
If canned fruits are used which are put up in 
factories, it is preferable to buy a good grade of 
fruit, .because the cheap grades which are labeled 
pie fruits consist often of the inferior, unripe 
fruit without any flavor. 

Some of the canned fruits require additional 
cooking down with more sugar to make them 
usable. 



PAUL RICHARDS' 



BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIBS, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Dried fruit should be soaked in cold water from 
twelve to twenty-four hours before using, and 
then it should be stewed, sweetened and cooled 
before putting it in the pies. 

Tart fillings are made richer than the pie fill- 
ings and consist of rich preserves and creams, 
which are filled into the tarts and baked; and in 
some cases the tart shells are baked first and the 
filling is put in afterwards. 

While many of the fresh fruits may be used in 
the pies without previous cooking, some of the 
fruits require stewing before they can be used. 
75.— PUFF PASTE. 

Puff paste should not be made in very large 
batches, because this prevents perfect rolling. If 
large batches have to be made they should be 
divided into smaller batches of two or three 
pounds to the batch. The butter should be 
washed in cold water to remove the salt, and both 
butter and dough should be of the same consis- 
tency when the rolling commences. 

Take two pounds of good pastry flour, two 
pounds of well washed and firm butter, one scant 
pint of ice water, two yolks of eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar or one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, a little salt. 

Rub four ounces of butter well into the flour, 
make a bay in the center of the flour, put in the 
yolks, vinegar, salt and water (leave out a little 
of the water, because the amount required is not 
always the same, it depends on the flour used). 
Mix into a smooth firm paste. Put the paste 
away to rest for fifteen minutes. 

Roll the dough out three times as long as it is 



When the paste is finished it should be given 
another rest before using. 

It is sometimes required to give one more turn 
to the paste, when the butter runs, and in baking, 
which happens mostly when the paste is made in 
large batches and has not been rolled thin enough 
before folding in three. 

Keep the puff paste covered up with a damp 
cloth or greased papers to prevent the drying of 
the paste, which would cause the breaking through 
of the butter. 

The rests between the rollings are given to pre- 
vent the paste from shrinking. If the rollings 
were continued without the intermissions, the 
flour paste would become tougher than the but- 
ter and shrink, and the butter would break 
through and spoil the paste. It is the even lay- 
ers of butter and dough which causes the paste 
to puff up high. The rest between the turns also 
prevents the butter from getting softer than the 
dough, and in summer it is often advisable to 
give a rest between each turn to prevent this. 

If the paste is prepared the day before using, 
omit the last one or two turns and finish half an 
hour before using. 

Puff paste may be made from a good tough but- 
terine, which is better than curdly butter; but 
the paste does not puff up so well as a paste made 
from good butter, and, of course, lacks the flavor 
of the butter. 

76.— QUICK PUFF PASTE 

One pound of cold butter; one pound of flour. 

Chop the butter into the flour in small lumps of 
about aquarter ounce each; sprinkle with ice water, 



wide, half an inch thick. Spread the butter over just enough to hold together, and mix very light 



two-thirds of the dough evenly. Fold the 
part of the dough left bare over half of the 
butter, and the butter part on top of the dough. 
This forms a square of three layers of dough, 
with two layers of butter in the center. See that 
the sides of the dough enclose the butter all 
around, and begin the rolling. 

Dust the board well with dry spring flour and 
roll the paste carefully without much pressure in- 
to a long square one-quarter inch thick. Fold in 
three layers, and roll each, folding down evenly, 
and brush off the flour. 



Put on the flour dusted table and press into a 
square shape; roll out half an inch thick and fold 
in three; give one more turn and give a rest; give 
three more turns, (five altogether) and it is ready 
for use. 

The same mixture may be made with the addi- 
tion of one ounce of baking powder. Mix the 
baking powder in some flour and dust it in be- 
tween the rollings. 

77.— THREE-QUARTER PUFF PASTE. 

A less ex;pensive faste, zvhich is suitable for 
tarts, creaTn rolls and slices, and can be used 



Put the paste on a pan, cover with a cloth and for baked fruit rolls and dumplings. 



set in the ice box for half an hour. [The first 
part of folding the butter in the dough is not 
counted for a turn, but the last folding in three is 
termed one turn] . 

Roll the paste again as before and give two 
turns, (two times three foldings). Let rest again, 
jnd give three more turns, (six altogether). The 
flour should be brushed off before each folding to 
obtain a nice clear paste. 



Take one pound of flour and rub in fourounces 
of lard; mix with cold water into a medium firm 
paste, but don't work it much. Take half a pound 
of butter, pliable and of the same consistency as 
the dough, and roll it in the dough like Puff Paste^ 
giving five turns only. 

78.— PIE PASTES. 
For pie paste the same rules hold good as giveC 
for Puff Paste. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Use good pastry flour (not a bread flour). 
Have all the ingredients cold, the butter and lard 
firm, and mix with iced water. 

Do not work the crust in mixing: shake it to- 
gether only, and sprinkle the water between so 
the shortening and flour will hold together. 

Dust the table, put on the mixed paste and roll 
it into a sheet; fold into a square and put away for 
use. 

All lard may be used for economical reasons; 
but the use of some butter with the lard gives the 
best flavored crust. 

79.— PIE PASTE, TOP CRUST. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of lard, half 
pound of butter. 

Have the shortening good and hard and the 
flour cold. 

Chop the shortening in the flour and mix with 
iced water to a medium firm dough as directed 
above, and set on ice to cool. 

For use, cut in pieces large enough for a pie 
covering when rolled out. 

If all lard is used, add a pinch of salt. 

[For a cheaper grade of pie top crust, ten ounces 
of lard may be used for each pound of flour.] 
80.— PIE PASTE, BOTTOM CRUST. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of lard, a little 
salt. 

Rub the lard in the flour and mix lightly with 
cold water into a medium firm paste, working 
pnly enough so it holds together, and put away 
hi use. 

81.— CUSTARD PIE PASTE. 

Three pounds of flour, eight ounces of butter, 
•light ounces of lard, one ounce of sugar, two yolks. 

Rub the butter in the flour, add the yolks and 
lugar and mix with milk or water into smooth paste. 
82.— SHORT PASTE FOR TARTS. 

Three pounds of flour, one pound of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, six yolks. 

Mix with milk, like the custard paste (No. 81). 
83— BOTTOM PASTE FOR LARGE CAKES 

AND LAYERS. 
ETwo pounds of flour, one pound of butter, eight 
ounces of sugar, two eggs, h'alf pint of water, a 
little powdered ammonia, the grated rind of one 
lemon. 

Rub the flour with the butter as for pie dough. 
Dissolve the ammonia in the water, and mix eggs, 
water and sugar together. Beat it up well and 
mix with the flour and butter, (do not work the 
mixture much). Set in the ice box till wanted. 
84.— GERMAN SHORT PASTE. 

Take eight ounces of almond paste, eight 
ounces of flour, eight ounces of cake crumbs, six 
ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, four eggs, 
the grated rind of one lemon, half a teaspoon of 



ground cloves and cinnamon, and a pinch of powd- 
ered ammonia. 

Rub the butter into the flour and mix with the 
sugar and the spices; soften the almond paste 
with the eggs; add the lemon rind and ammonia 
and mix all together into a smooth paste. Put 
away in a jar well covered in a. cold place. 

8s.— STEAMED DUMPLING PASTE, NO. 1. 

Twenty-four ounces of flour, one ounce of 
baking powder, six ounces of butter, four eggs, 
two ounces of sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, 
a little mace, milk to mix. 

Work the ingredients same as for tea biscuit 
mixture, and use. 

86.— SUET DUMPLING PASTE, NO. 2. 

Two pounds of flour, one ounce of baking 
powder, eight ounces of finely chopped suet, two 
eggs, pinch of salt, flavor. 

Mix with milk into a medium firm paste and use. 

One pound of bread crumbs may be used, and 
only one pound of flour for this paste. 

87.— ROLLED DUMPLING PASTE, NO. 3. 

Twenty-four ounces of flour, eight ounces of 
butter, two eggs, the grated rind oE one lemon, a 
little mace, pinch of salt, milk to mix, and one 
ounce of baking powder. 

Mix the baking powder with a handful of the 
flour and keep it back for dusting. Chop the but- 
ter in the rest of the flour and add the lemon 
rind, mace and salt. Mix the eggs with a little 
milk and sprinkle over the flour, then shake the 
mixture together same as for pie crust. Put on 
the table, dust with the flour and baking powder, 
roll out thin and give two turns (twice three fold- 
ings) like for Pufi Paste (No. 75), then it is ready 
for use. All three pastes may be used for Meat 
Dumplings. 

88.— GUM-PASTE (PASTILLAGE). 

Put two ounces of gum tragacanth to soak in a 
cup of water, cover and let it stand in a warm 
place for about two days. When the gum has ab- 
sorbed all the water press it through a cloth. 
Mix on the marble slab with one pound of icing 
sugar and work smooth. Put away in a jar and 
cover with a damp cloth. 

If the paste is to be used for lozenges, work in 
two pounds of icing sugar, with flavor and color 
to suit. 

For ornamental work add starch powder in the 
same proportions in place of the sugar. This 
makes a nice pliable elastic paste which can 
easily be molded with the fingers into any shape, 
or pressed in molds £or figure work, and may b6 
colored any shade, li the paste is too firm it 
may be softened with even portions of starch and 
water mixed together and added to the paste. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Using this paste requires quick work to prevent 
drying and crusting. 

89,— CROQUANT PASTE. 
This paste is mostly used for making orna- 
mental pieces, because it keeps its shape well if 
properly baked. The paste may be used to make 
baskets and also other ornaments which require a 
foundation. 

Take two pounds of flour, one pound of fine 
icing sugar, and two ounces of butter; rub all 
well together and work together with about nine 
or ten whites of eggs into a smooth but firm paste. 
Put away well covered in a cool place. 

90.— ALMOND PASTE (MARCIPAN). 

Take one pound and twelve ounces of blanched 
sweet almonds and four ounces bitter almonds; 
let them whiten in cold water over night. Wipe 
the almonds dry and pound in a mortar to a fine 
smooth paste. Add some water if too dry. Put 
the paste into a basin and stir with one pound of 
powdered sugar till it is smooth and does not stick 
to the finger. Take it off the fire and work in one 
or two pounds more of powdered sugar to form a. 
pliable paste. It may be formed in small rolls or 
cut in stars and rings or any fancy shapes. They 
are baked in -a medium heat to a nice golden 
brown color. 

If this paste is intended for ornamenting and 
for large pieces, one ounce of gum tragacanth 
may be added in solution while the paste is warm, 
and it may be worked like the Gum-paste (No. 88). 
into baskets and croquant pieces. 

91.— MERINGUE PASTES. 

Meringue pastes are used in a variety of ways 
in pastry and cake making. The soft meringues 
with less sugar are used largely for pies and 
puddings. The hard meringues are baked on 
papers and pans; and others again on paper-cov- 
ered boards. The meringue boards should be of 
non-resinous wood about one or two inches thick 
and cut so thej can be put to soak in the sink be- 
fore using. These boards are used to bake mer- 
ingue shells for Easter eggs, and for baskets, etc. 

Meringues require a very cool oven: too much 
heat causes the paste to burst and color before it 
is sufficiently baked. 

ITALIAN MERINGUES are made with a 
syrup. The sugar is boiled to the blow degree, 
and poured hot in a thin stream into the beaten- 
up whites and then beaten cool. 

For the FRENCH MERINGUE, both sugar 
and whites are beaten together on a slow fire, 
warm till firm, and then beaten cold. 

These meringue pastes are used for the same 
purpose as the others, only with the difEerence 
that the hot pastes dry in less time than the 
pastes made by the cold process. 



92.— COLD MERINGUE PASTE. 

To obtain a good paste have the egg whites 
fresh and cold, the sugar dry and well sifted, the 
utensils (basin or kettle, and beater) perfectly 
clean and dry. 

A cold dry place is the most suitable for the 
beating. 

Beat slow at the start (do not stir) and increase 
the speed gradually. When the whites get firm 
add a small handful of the sugar and continue the 
beating till the mixture can be drawn to a point. 
Beat in another handful of the sugar and continue 
so till about one-third or one-fourth part of the 
sugar is beaten into the mixture. Add flavoring 
and mix in the rest of the sugar. Draw it in 
lightly, but avoid stirring too much, which would 
soften the paste and make it flow and run flat. 

The pastes may be colored to suit before all 
the sugar is beaten into the mixture. 

93.— MERINGUE PASTE, NO. i. 

One pint of whites of eggs, one pound and 
eight ounces powdered sugar or fine granulated 
sugar. Flavor. 

94.— MERINGUE PASTE, NO. z. 

One pint of whites of eggs, three pounds of 
powdered sugar. 

95.— ITALIAN MERINGUE PASTE. 

Boil one pound of granulated sugar with a lit- 
tle water to the blow degree. 

Beat the whites of six eggs firm. 

When the sugar has reached the degree, rub a 
part of it on the side of the kettle till it loses its 
clearness and begins to grain. Stir this in the 
other syrup and pour it in a thin stream into the 
whites, stirring constantly. Add the ,fiavor and 
beat cold. 

This meringue is used much for ices and in 
punches. 

96— FF.ENCH MERINGUE PASTE. 

Two pounds of powdered sugar, one pint of 
whites of eggs. 

Put the sugar and whites together in a basin, 
and set in a pan with hot water, or on a slow fire, 
and beat the mixture till it stands up well. Take 
off the fire and beat cold for a minute and use like 
the other pastes. 

97— CHARLOTTE RUSSE CRUST PASTE 
(YELLOW). 

One pint of whites of eggs, half pint of yolks, 
one pound of powdered sugar, one pound of flour, 
vanilla flavor, half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Retain a handful of the sugar to be beaten in 
the whites. 

Sift flour, sugar and cream of tartar together. 
Beat the whites to a firm froth, and beat in the 
retained sugar. Beat in the flavor and add the 
yolks gradually. Mir in the flour and sugar 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. I3 



lightly, but fully, and dress the paste with bag 
and a large flat tube on baking sheets covered 
with manilla paper. Bake in a medium heat. 
(A too hot oven will brown and blister the mix- 
ture; too cool will cause drying out). 

The crust should be soft and pliable when baked. 
98.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE CRUST PASTE 
(WHITE). 

One pound four ounces of powdered sugar, 
twelve ounces of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one and one-half pints of egg whites, 
vanilla flavor. 

Proceed with this mixture the same as for the 
yellow crust, and bake in the same manner. 

The baked crust will keep for several days if 
kept in an air-tight tin box in a cool place. 

99.— GERMAN NUDLE PASTE (NOODLE 
PASTE). 

The paste may be made from yolks only and 
also from whole eggs. 

Break as many eggs as wanted into abowl; flavor 
with a pinch of salt and nutmeg and work in 
sufficient flour to make a very firm paste. Let it 
rest for some time before using. 

100.— RAISED PIE PASTE, COLD. 

Two pounds of flour, eight ounces of butter, 
half ounce of salt, four yolks, three whole eggs, a. 
scant pint of water. Mix as directed in No. 8i. 
loi.— RAISED PIE PASTE, HOT. 

Two pounds of flour, six ounces of butter or 
lard, half ounce of salt, one scant pint of water. 
Sift the flour in the bowl; make a bay in the 
center. Let the water and butter come to a boil 
and mix it with the flour into a firm but smooth 
paste. These two pastes are used for large hot 
or cold Meat Pies, and also for the small Mutton 
and Pork Pies. 

102.— CREAM PUFF PASTE. 

One quart of water, one pound of lard, one 
pound eight ounces of flour, twenty-six to thirty 
eggs, a pinch of powdered ammonia (about one- 
eighth ounce). Put the lard and water together, 



The error is mostly found in not letting lard and 
water come to a full boil before adding the flour; 
or not stirring the paste sufficiently on the fire to 
overcome the insufficient boiling in the first place. 
To have it come to a full boil it is best to measure 
a little more than the quart of water given in the 
recipe, to allow for evaporation. After the eggs 
are added the mixture should be dressed with 
bag and tube on greased and dusted pans and baked 
as quick as possible. If for puSs, washed with 
egg-wash and baked in a good heat. If the pufis 
become crusty and cold before going in the oven 
they do not crack as nicely as they should, to 
have the right appearance. For eclairs, which 
require a smooth top, it is preferable to let them 
stand for some time after they are dressed on the 
pans, so they bake up with a smooth top. 
103.— CREAM PUFF PASTE. 

One quart of water, one pound four ounces of 
lard, one pound eight ounces of flour, one and 
one-half pints of eggs, half pint of milk, pinch of 
salt, pinch of ammonia. 

Make same as directed in No. io2. Add the 
half pint of milk after the eggs. 

104.— FRENCH FRITTER PASTE 
(BEIGNETS SOUFFLES). 

One quart of water, eight ounces of butter, one 
pound of flour, about eighteen eggs. 

Prepare same as directed in No. 102. Fry in 
hot lard. 

105.— FRFNCH CRULLER PASTE. 

One pint of water, half pound of butter, two 
ounces of sugar, one pound of flour, fifteen eggs. 

Prepare same as No. 102. Fry in hot lard. 
106.— FRIED WAFFLE PASTE. 

One pound four ounces of flour, two ounces of 
sugar, one pint of milk, seven eggs, lemon flavor 
and cinnamon. 

Separate the eggs, mix flour, sugar, yolks and 
milk to a soft batter, add the whites beaten to a 
firm troth 

This batter is used for sweet fried cases and 



with a pinch of salt, into a shallow saucepan fried spring waffles. 

and let come to a good boil. Stir in the sifted 

flour, and, with the spatula, mix into a smooth 

paste. Take off the fire, put the paste in the 

mixing bowl, let cool a little, and work the eggs 

gradually in the warm paste (which should be soft 

when finished, but not soft enough to run flat on 

the pan). Add the ammonia after the eggs are all in. 

The mixture takes more or less eggs according 
to the strength of the flour. Some bakers add a 
little milk in the last part of the mixing to save eggs. 

For Eclairs the mixture may be made a little 
firmer than for puffs. 

This paste is not very hard to prepare, but 
jbany fail in their first attempts at making it. 



107.— ROMAN CASE PASTE. 

One pound of flour, four ounces of cornstarch, 
one pint of milk, four eggs, pinch of salt. 

Mix same as No. 106. 

In using these pastes, the irons used should be 
put in the hot grease or oil before dipping them 
in the batter. Dip the hot iron in the batter, 
close to the edge, but not above, and put in the 
hot grease again; fry to a nice color. The cases 
will drop off the iron easily by knocking on the iron. 

Case from batter No. 106 may be used for 
fancy souffles and creams. 

The spring waffles may be served for breakfast 
like other waffles, dusted with powdered sugar 



14 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



and cinnamon; and they may be served with 
sweetmeats or with a rich cream for a sweet 
entree or dessert. 

No. 107 is used the same way as patty cases for 
oysters, sweetbreads, salads, etc. 

108.— BATTER PASTE FOR SWEET 
FRITTERS. 

One pound of flour, three ounces of sugar, one 
teaspoon of baking powder, two eggs- 
Mix with milk to a medium batter; add a spoon- 
ful of melted butter and a pinch of salt. 

109.— BATTER FOR PLAIN FRITTERS. 

One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, two 
eggs, pinch of salt. 

Mix with milk to a soft batter. 

This batter is used also for vegetables, 
no.— CREAM FILLINGS FOR PIES, TARTS, 
AND CAKES 

The fillings can be made of more or less rich- 
ness, to suit the price obtained for the goods. If 
less eggs are used in the fillings, another thicken- 
ing must be substituted in the form of starch or 
flour. In this manner lemon pie and other cream 
fillings can be made with two or three yolks to 
the quart, instead of using six or eight yolks, us- 
ing more starch and a little more butter. Fruit 
fillings may also be nade less expensive in this 
manner. Some large bakeries use a cream filling 
made from water, eggs and starch or flour in the 
hot season, which has better keeping qualities 
than milk creams, which sour readily in summer, 
III.— ALMOND AND NUT CREAM FILLING. 

One pint of rich milk or cream, eight yolks, 
four ounces of chopped and browned almonds or 
nuts, eight ounces of sugar, one ounce of corn- 
starch. 

Mix the sugar, yolks and starch and add the 

milk. Set on the fire and stir constantly till it 

thickens, but do not let it boil. Add the nuts and 

vanilla flavor. Let cool and use for filling. 

112.— CHOCOLATE NUT CREAM, OR 

CARAMEL NUT CREAM. 

Add to No. Ill one ounce of powdered cocoa or 
some caramel. 

113.— ALMOND FILLING NO. i. 

Half a pound of almond paste, four ounces of 
browned and crushed almonds, eight ounces of 
sugar, half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, 
six eggs. 

Rub the almond paste soft with the eggs, add 

sugar, butter and almonds, put on the fire with 

the milk and stir till it thickens. Let cool, flavor 

with vanilla and use for layer cakes and tart filling. 

114.— ALMOND FILLING NO. 2. 

Six ounces almond paste, four ounces of dry 
macaroons powdered, one pint of milk. 

Boil on a slow fire to a cream, and mix with a 



meringue paste made from nine whites of eggs 
and eight ounces of powdered sugar. Mix and 
let cool and use for filling. 

115.— NUT FILLING NO. i. 

Four ounces of crushed nuts, eight ounces of 
sugar, four ounces of butter, five eggs, the grated 
rind of one lemon, little ground cinnamon. 

Break the eggs in the saucepan, beat up with 
the sugar, butter and spices, add the nuts, put on 
the fire and stir till it thickens. Let cool and use. 

Chocolate may be added for chocolate filling. 
116.— NUT FILLING NO. 2. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
crushed nuts, twelve eggs, half a teaspoonful of 
ground cloves and cinnamon. 

Put the sugar with half a pint of water on the 
fire and boil to a syrup. Pour it into the well 
beaten eggs and mix in the nuts and spices. 
Add a few cakecrumbs for thickening. Let cool 
and use. 

117.— COCO ANUT FILLING. 

One pound of fine chopped cocoanut, eight 
ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two ounces 
of cornstarch, half pint of milk. 

Mix the starch with half of the sugar, set the 
milk and butter to boil with the other half of the 
sugar, let boil and mix with the starch and nuts. 
Flavor with vanilla. Let cool and use. 
118.— ORANGE FILLING. 

One pound of sugar, one pint of white wine, 
four oranges, two lemons, two ounces of butter, 
two ounces of ccrnstarch, sixteen yolks of eggs. 

Put the yolks in the saucepan, mix with sugar 
and starch, add the butter, the grated rind of the 
oranges, and the juice of the lemons and oranges. 
Stir on the fire till it thickens; take ofi and let cool. 

Make a Lemon Filling in the same manner, us- 
ing six lemons, rind and juice, leaving out the 
oranges. 

119.— PLAIN LEMON FILLING. 

One pound of sugar, half pint of water, two 
ounces of cornstarch, two ounces of butter, eight 
yolks, juice and rind of four lemons. 

Prepare same as No. 1x8. 
120.— LEMON AND ORANGE BUTTER 
FILLING. 

One pound of sugar, eight ounces of butter, 
three oranges, two lemons, five yolks and five 
whole eggs. 

Grate the orange rind on the sugar, press the 
juice from the oranges and lemons, mix in the 
eggs, add the butter and stir on a slow fire till it 
thickens. Let cool and use. 

For Lemon Butter use five lemons, rind and 
juice. 

121.— PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

One pint of grated pineapple, eight ounces of 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 15 

sugar, two ounces of butter, four yolks, one The creams made with flour should be well 

ounce of cornstarch, the juice of one orange. cooked so as to lose the raw flour taste. Good 

Mir all the ingredients together, put on the Are cornstarch has hardly any flavor, thickens more 



and stir till it thickens. 

122.— VIENNA CREAM FILLING NO. i. 

Five eggs, twelve ounces sugar, eight ounces of 
white butter. 

Beat eggs and sugar together on the fire till it 
thickens; take oS at once and beat cold on ice. 

Take white fresh country butter without salt, 
stir it to a light cream, then add gradually, beat- 
ing constantly, the egg cream; flavor with manilla. 

Cakes and tarts filled with this cream should 
be kept in a cold place. 

This cream may be used like hard sauce for 
puddings; and can be used for decorative pur- 
poses in many ways. 

123— VIENNA CREAM FILLING NO. 2. 

Twelve ounces of icing sugar (XXXX pow- 
dered), eight ounces of white butter. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a light cream, add- 
ing rum or maraschino for flavor, or any suitable 
liquor or flavor. 

This filling is used for decorating cakes and 

tarts, also for fancy cold puddings. It may be 

colored to suit; and with powdered cocoa it makes 

a nice rich chocolate cream filling and icing. 

124.- FRUIT PASTES FOR FILLING 

LAYER CAKES. 

To give fruit jellies and jams more firmness 
for a filling, they may be mixed with sifted cake- 
crumbs and sugar. 

Cakecrumbs may bs made into a filling by add- 
ing fruit syrup or plain syrup; season with spices, 
chocolate or nuts. 

A nice maple filling for tarts and layer cakes 
may be made with maple syrup, crumbs and a 
few nuts. 

125.— TARTLET CRUMB FILLING. 

Take eight ounces of sugar, eight ounces of 
butter. Rub to a cream with half a pint of eggs 
and half a pint of milk; mix with cake-crumbs to 
a soft batter. Flavor this mixture with either 
lemon, orange, vanilla, or chocolate, or add 
chopped peel or nuts. This makes a variety of 
fillings for small tarts. 

It may be used also for a pie filling and baked 
like custard pies, decorated with meringue or jelly. 
126.— PASTRY CREAMS. 

The cream fillings for puffs, layers and pies, 
may be made with flour or cornstarch. They can 
be mixed dry with half of the sugar and added to 
the boiling liquid; or it may be mixed into a soft 
paste with cold milk or water and added in this 
manner. The yolks of eggs are used to enrich 
and thicken the creams for this reason: if more 
yolks are used the cream requires less starch; 
and if less yolks are used, more starch. 



readily and makes better creams. 

127.— CREAM PUFF FILLING. 

One quart of milk, ten ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of butter, three ounces of cornstarch, six 
yolks, a pinch of salt. 

Dissolve the starch in a little cold milk and 
mix with the yolks. Put the rest of the milk, 
sugar and butter in the saucepan and let come to 
a boil; stir in the yolks and starch and continue 
stirring till the mixture is well thickened. Take 
off the fire, stir cold, add the salt and flavor. 

This cream is the foundation of many pie fill- 
ings. With the addition of cocoanut it will make 
a cocoanut cream; with nuts and almonds, 
almond and nut creams; with chocolate, chocolate 
cream, etc. For cream puff filling it may be used 
as given in the recipe for Pie and Tart Filling. 
From one-half to one ounce less starch may be 
used. (If the whites of the eggs are beaten to a 
froth and mixed in the cream before taking it off 
the fire, a very light cream is obtained). 
128.— PASTRY CREAM. 

One quart of milk, eight ounces of sugar, one 
ounce of butter, two ounces of cornstarch, ten 
yolks of eggs, pinch of salt, flavor. 

Prepare same as No. 127. 
129. — PASTRY CREAM (WATER CREAM). 

One quart of water, ten ounces of sugar, five 
yolks, one ounce of butter, three and one-half 
ounces of cornstarch. 

Prepare same as No. 127. 

130.— PATTY CASES NO. i. 

Take good puff paste, roll it out not quite one- 
quarter of an inch thickness, and cut out for 
large size patties with a three-inch cutter. Put 
on wet baking pans a little distance apart. Mark 
the center with a smaller cutter of one inch less 
diameter, and set in a cold place to rest for fifteen 
to twenty minutes. 

Before baking wash the patties with an egg- 
wash and bake in a brisk heat of about 400 to 4S0 
degrees Fahr. in an empty oven without steam. 

In washing the patties, care should be taken 
that the wash does not run down the sides of the 
paste (only the top should be washed). The run- 
ning down prevents the paste from rising evenly 
in the oven during baking. 

When the patties are baked, lift the top care- 
fully and take out the soft inside paste to make 
room for the filling. 

131.— PATTY CASES NO. 2. 

Another way of making the patties is to make 
them in three pieces instead of cutting them out 
in one piece. 



I6 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Roll out a very thin sheet of the paste, to one- 
sixteenth of an inch thickness. With a cutter a 
little larger than three inches diameter cut out 
circulars and put on a wet baking sheet. Roll 
out another sheet of paste one-quarter inch thick- 
ness, and cut in three-inch circulars. With a 
two-inch cutter cut rings from the three-inch 
pieces, wash the cut-out bottoms first with water 
and put on the rings. Set in a cool place to rest 
for fifteen minutes. Then wash the top of the 
rings and bake same as directed for the other 
patties. 

For the tops, roll out the trimmings into a thin 
sheet, cut in two-inch round pieces, put on pan 
wash over and bake. 
132.— VOL-AU-VENT(LARGE PATTY CASES). 

Vol-au-vents are very large patty cases often 
made so large as to hold from one to two quarts of 
filling (which may consist of the regular filling of 
oysters, chicken, etc., or of a filling of game birds 
as for other large meat pies. 

Vol-au-vents are mostly served for parties and 
large dinners. 

Roll out the puff paste into a sheet one inch 
thickness, and put it on a wet baking pan, Put a 
round or oval plate, a little larger than you want 
the case to be, on top of the paste, and cut with a 
sharp knife around the sides to trim off the sur- 
plus paste. Take off the plate and make another 
circular cut of one inch less diameter (but do not 
cut through) to form the cover. Set the patty in 
the ice box to rest for twenty minutes. When 
ready to bake wash with a light egg-wash and 
bake in a good heat. 

To obtain a very high case it is best to set a 
ring of stiff paper around the case during the first 
part of the baking. It should be about five inches 
high and two inches larger in diameter. This 
gives the case more time to rise before it bakes 
on the sides and makes it bake up more evenly. 

[The small patties are termed petits vols-au- vent 
and petits bouchees] . 

The vols-au-vent and the smaller patty cases are 
also used for sweet pastry. Filled with whipped 
cream and fresh fruits they make very acceptable 
desserts. 

133.— TARTS AND TARTLETS. 

The tarts and tartlets may be made like the 
patty cases, from puff paste, baked, and the pre- 
pared filling put in after baking; or small patty 
tins may be lined with puff or tart pastes, and 
baked with the filling. If the shells in the tins 
are baked before the filling is put in, it is best to 
dust the lined tins with a little flour and fill up 
with beans, or little balls of flour paste. Bake 
the shells and remove the beans or the paste to 
make room for the filling. This prevents the 



shrinking of the paste in baking. The beans can 
be used over again for the same purpose. 

In England the term Tart is generally applied 
to small fruit pies; and tartlet to the small tarts 
baked in the fluted patty tins. Here in America 
the tarts are baked in the small tins; and small 
patty cases are also termed Tarts and Tartlets, if 
they are filled with sweets. 

In the German and the French, tart is changed 

into torte and tourte respectively, and means 

either a large fruit or cream pie, made in the 

open fashion from rich tart or puff paste; or it 

means a rich round layer cake with cream or fruit 

filling. The tortes from puff paste are made with 

a cover of narrow strips of paste, put on lattice 

fashion; the layer cakes are iced and fancifully 

decorated with French fruits glaces and other 

ornaments. 

134.— APPLE PIE. 

Roll out a bottom from pie paste No. 80, line 
the greased pie tins with it and fill with the fruit. 

Nice ripe cooking apples require no previous 
cooking. Slice the apples very thin, season with 
nutmeg, allspice or cinnamon; sprinkle about two 
handfuls of sugar over the apples in each pie; 
distribute a little butter in small bits over the 
apples. 

Use plenty of fruit to make a well filled pie. 

Brush the edge of the rim with water. Roll 
out a cover from paste No. 79 for the top crust. 
Mark the crust with the letter of the fruit which 
the pie contains. (Pie bakers use a stamp for 
this purpose). Make a. few small cuts in the 
paste to serve as steam vents during baking. 
Fold the cover in two and cover the pie. 

Press the top and bottom pastes well together 
on the sides; trim off the surplus paste with the 
hands, or use a knife for this purpose. 

Before putting in the oven wash over with some 
milk in which one yolk of egg has been well 
beaten; this gives the pies a nice color. 

An even baking heat of 350 to 400 degrees 
Fahrenheit is best suitable for fruit pies. 

Some apples require to be stewed before using. 
Peel core and slice the apples, stew with a little 
water till tender, add sugar and flavor and let 
cool before filling in the pies. 

135.— SLICED APPLE PIE. 

This pie, like the other, can be made from 
fresh or stewed fruit. Line the pie tin with paste 
No. 80 and trim off the surplus paste. Put the 
fruit on the paste in an even layer and sweeten 
and season to taste. Roll out some top paste No. ' 
79, (or use puff paste cut in strips about one inch' 
wide). Wash the edge of the paste in the pie 
and put on the strips in lattice fashion. Put also] 
a strip around the edge. Brush over with egg 
wash, and bake. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



17 



This pie may also be made only with the strip 
around the edge, leaving the center open. 
136.— ENGLISH APPLE PIE. 

This pie is best suited for hotel and catering 
trade. It is best served hot. It is made as a deep 
dish pie, and can be served in place of pudding. 

The individual pies are the most suitable for 
hotel and restaurant service. Take the oval 
china vegetable dishes, or the brown pudding 
dishes, fill with the fresh or stewed fruit, put 
on a cover from paste No. 79, cut a few boles 
in the top-crust to serve as a steam vent, brush 
over with egg, wash and bake to a nice color. 

In England, for large pies of this kind, it is custo- 
mary to put an inverted cup in the center of the 
pie or pudding, to take up the juice during bak- 
ing and prevent boiling over. For smaller pies a 
tube of stifE paper may be inserted in the center, 
which answers the same purpose, 
137.— PEAR PIE. 
PEACH PIE. 
APRICOT PIE. 
QUINCE PIE. 

Nice soft pears can be used without stewing; 
other pears should be stewed and cooled before 
using. 

Peaches and apricots are peeled, sliced and the 
stones removed; baked with a full cover and also 
like the sliced apple pie. 

For quinces, peel, core and slice the fruit, stew 
till tender. Half apples and half quinces makes 
a very nice pie. Bake like apple pie. 
138.— BERRY PIES. 

All berries should be washed and picked over 
to remove sand and other impurities. Some 
berries contain very much juice, and for these 
berries it is best to put a thin layer of crumbs in 
bottom of the pie, before putting on the fruit, to 
retain the juice. 

The best way to make berry pies for hotels and 
restaurants is to make them like the English apple 
pie, in deep dishes, with a top cover only, and 
serve the pie in the dish. We used to make fine 
pies this way in New York hotels twenty years 
ago and they proved very good sellers. 

If berries are baked in the flat pies with top 
and bottom crust, the juice often makes the bot- 
tom soggy and soft. When cut into portions it 
runs out and much of it is lost; while in the deep 
dishes all the juice is retained, and a berry pie 
can be made with more fruit in it. 

Fill the dish with strawberries, raspberries, 
currants, blueberries, blackberries or grapes; 
sweeten to taste; wet the edge of the dish, put on 
a cover from top crust paste, make a few cuts in 
it, wash over and bake. 

To blue- and blackberries a little water maybe 
added; the other berries named require no water. 



139.— CRANBERRY PIE. 
GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Stew the berries with about twelve ounces of 
sugar to the quart of fruit, adding a little water; 
boil slowly till clear; let cool before using. 

Cranberry pies are baked open with strips like 
the sliced apple pie. 

The gooseberry pies are baked with a full cover. 
140.— RHUBARB PIE. 

The young tender stalks require no peeling; 
otherwise peel ofE the outer skin; cut up in small 
pieces. To each pound of rhubarb add twelve 
ounces of sugar and one ounce of cornstarch, the 
grated rind of one lemon or orange; mix well to- 
gether and fill in the bottoms; bake with strips 
like the cranberry pie, or with a full cover. 

Puff paste may be used for strip covers. For 
a full cover the rich pie crust is better; it makes 
a better crust. Puff paste is too light and easily 
softens from the steam which arises during baking, 
and the crusts gets soft after standing for some- 
time. 

141.— BANANA PIE. 

Peel and slice the bananas very thin; add sugar, 
a little fresh butter, the juice of some oranges or 
lemons, and a pinch of allspice; or flavor with 
some good rum. Bake with a full crust, or with 
a meringue cover. 

142.— PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Peel and core ripe pineapple and cut in thin 
slices; stew till clear in a light syrup; flavor with 
a little grated orange peel; let cool and bake with 
a strip cover like sliced apple pie. 

Grated canned pineapple may be used like 
other fruit. 

143.— FRUIT MERINGUE PIES. 

All the fruit pies can be made into meringue 
pie^ by baking them open, without cover of any 
crust, and decorate with Meringue Paste No. 93. 

Put the paste in a bag, use a plain or star tube; 
put on strips in lattice fashion and a border 
around the edge; dust with powdered sugar and 
put back in the oven for a minute to color. 

The other way to make fruit meringue pies is to 
bake the bottoms, as described in No. 74, fill 
with the ready stewed fruit, put on the meringue 
paste and give some color in the oven. 

144.— BOSTON LEMON PIE. 

One pound of sugar, sixteen eggs, six lemons. 

Bake the bottoms to a very light color. Grate 
the rind of four lemons on half of the sugar, add 
the yolks of the eggs and the juice of all the lem- 
ons, stir together on the fire till it thickens, then 
take off the fire. Beat the whites of eggs and 
make a meringue with the other half of the sugar. 
Mix yolks and whites together and fill in the baked 
crusts; sift some powdered sugar over and put 



i8 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



in a slack oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
The pie puffs up and falls a little after baking, 
but makes a delicious pie. 

145.— LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

One quart of water, one pound of sugar, five 
lemons, five yolks, three and one-half ounces of 
cornstarch, two ounces of butter. 

Grate the rind of three lemons onto the sugar; 
dissolve the starch in a little cold water and mix 
with the yolks. Put sugar, water, lemon rind 
and juice, and the butter to boil. When it boils 
add starch and yolks and stir till it thickens. 
Take off the fire and fill in the previously baked 
bottoms. 

Use the whites of the eggs for the meringue, 
one ounce of sugar for each white of egg (or use 
Meringue Paste No. 93). 

Spread some of the paste over the cream after 
it has cooled, with the palette knife. Put the 
other paste in the dressing bag and put on a 
border; dust with powdered sugar and put in the 
oven to color. 

The same mixture may be used for covered 
pies; or only half boiled and filled in lined bot- 
toms, baked like custard pie. The mixture may 
be made more or less rich, using more yolks and 
less starch. 

The cheapest lemon pies are made with lemon 
extract and acid; no lemons; leaving out the eggs 
and using color; but the juice and grated rind 
only will produce the true flavor. 

146.— ORANGE MERINGUE PIE. 

The orange pie is made in the same manner as 

"Bo. 14s, using the rind of one orange only and the 

/Oice of three oranges and two lemons. The one 

quart mixture makes about three good size pies. 

147.— PINEAPPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

The pineapple pie may be made like the lemon 
pie No. 145, using one quart of water and one 
quart of pineapple grated; or, for a richer pie, 
use the following mixture: Take one quart of 
grated pineapple (unsweetened), twelve ounces 



milk and sugar come to a boil add the yolks and 
starch and stir till it thickens. Take off the fire 
and add the flavor and fill into the baked crusts. 
Finish like the Lemon Meringue Pie. 

This recipe will make all the different cream 
pies by changing the flavors. For Vanilla Cream 
Pie add vanilla extract; for Lemon, the grated 
rind of lemon, etc. 

A very light cream is obtained by adding the 
beaten whites of flve eggs to the cream. As soon 
as it begins to thicken mix the whites well in the 
cream and take off the fire. 

149.— COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Add four ounces of grated cocoanut to the 
above mixture (No. 148) in the boiling milk and 
flavor with vanilla. 

150.— ALMOND CREAM PIE. 

Flavor cream No. 148 vanilla, add four ounces of 
browned and crushed almonds and sprinkle a few 
chopped almonds on top of the meringue. 
151.— CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE. 

Add two ounces of cocoa powder to No. 148, 
dissolve with the sugar and boil with the milk. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Finish the pies with a cover of meringue, or 
put the meringue on lattice fashion, with a border 
of dots, and brown lightly in the oven. 
152.— STRAWBERRY CREAM MERINGUE 
PIE. 

Make the vanilla cream, but fill the baked bot- 
toms only half full with the cream. Put on a 
layer of ripe strawberries, sprinkle with sugar, 
and over the berries put a network or make a 
full cover of Meringne Paste No. 93, and put in 
the oven for a minute to color. 

If RASPBERRIES are used, the pie would be 
called Raspberry Cream Meringue Pie. 

Very ripe PEACHES may also be used in this 
manner. 

133.— CREAM PIES WITH PRESERVED 
FRUITS. 

When the fresh fruit gives out, the preserved 



of sugar, the juice and rind of one lemon, two fruits may be used for the cream pies. Fresh 



ounces of cornstarch, four ounces of butter and 
six yolks. Stir together on the fire till it thick- 
ens and fill into the baked bottoms; cover with a 
network or full cover of meringue; sprinkle over 
a few chopped almonds, dust with powdered 
sugar and put in the oven to color. 
148.— CREAM PIES. 

One quart of milk, eight yolks, eight ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of cornstarch, one ounce of 
butter. 

Dissolve the starch in a little cold milk and stir 
with the yolks. Set the milk on the fire with the 
sugar and butter. Mix now a little of the hot 
milk with the starch and yolks, and when the 



fruit, like blackberries, grapes or cherries, may 
be made into a compote and used for the pies. 
The pies may bs given the name of the caterer, 
or the hotel, and called Grand Hotel Msringua 
Pie or Delmonico Meringue Pie, etc. 
154.— STRAWBERRY PIE WITH WHIPPED 

CREAM. 
RASPBERRY PIE WITH WHIPPED 

CREAM. 
Bake the bottoms as usual, but use the richer 
top crust, or the Short Paste No. 82. Sweeten 
the berries with powdered sugar and fill into the 
baked bottoms. Whip some double cream to a 
stiff froth, sweeten and flavor and spread over 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



19 



the berries. Decorate with bag and tube like 
meringue pie and serve. 

This delicious pie may be served as a Shortcake. 
155.— DAIRY CREAM PIES. 

These pies may be made like the Cream Piss 
with Preserved Fruits No. 153. One thin layer 
of pastry cream, one layer of preserved fruit, and 
the top finished with whipped cream in place of 
meringue. 

For better keeping quality a charlotte russe 
mixture may be used, with a little gelatine in it 
to make a more solid cream. 

Of course, pies like this should be kept in a 
cold place to prevent the softening of the cream. 

For special orders the pies may be decorated 
with fancy designs with the plain or star tube; 
with candied fruits, or with a piping of fruit jelly, 
which makes a nice effect. 

A special name may be devised for this pie for 
certain occasions. 

156.— MARTHA WASHINGTON PIE. 

Bake a layer or sponge cake mixture in the 
regular pie tins. Let cool and split in halves; 
fill with a vanilla or nut cream; put together and 
ice like a layer cake. Take some clear currant 
jelly, press it through a cloth, put some of the 
jelly in a paper cornet and decorate the pie with 
a fancy border or other design. 

157.— FLORADORA CREAM PIE. 

Bake a layer of white cake mixture or angel 
cake, put on a thiok layer of the floradora cream, 
cover with a meringue, put a few shredded al- 
monds on top, dust with powdered sugar and put 
in the oven for a minute to color. 

Make the cream as follows: Take one pint of 
grated pineapple, one pint of sliced pineapple cut 
in dices, four ounces of cocoanut, two ounces of 
starch, four ounces of butter, eight yolks of eggs, 
eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of one 
orange and the juice of two. Mix the ingredients 
together and stir on the fire till it thickens, let 
cool and use. 
158.— DRESDEN CP.EAM MERINGUE PIE. 

Put eight ounces of Sultana or seeded Malaga 
raisins with half a pint of sherry wine and two 
ounces of sugar in a stew pan, and let slowly sim- 
mer gn the back of the stove till the raisins have 
absorbed all the wine and sugar. Line a deep 
custard pie tin or layer-cake tin with puff-paste, 
and put a strip of the paste around the edge. 

Make a custard in the following manner: Take 
three pints of rich miik, twelve ounces of sugar, 
four ounces of almond paste, ten yolks and three 
ounces of cornstarch. Sof tea the almond paste 
with one egg till smooth, dissolve the starch in a 
little milk. Set the other milk and sugar on the 
fire; mix the paste, starch and yolks well to- 



gether, and when the milk comes to a boil take off 
the fire and stir it into the yolks, starch and paste; 
flavor with vanilla. 

Fill the lined pie bottom with the raisins, pour 
over the custard and bake as usual. 

Use the whites for the meringue paste and dec- 
orate when done; or the pie may be served plain 
like a custard pie. 

159.— CUSTARD PIES. 

Line the deep custard pie tins with pasteNo.Si. 
Force up the edge of the paste, pinch up above the 
top, notch it to form a fancy rim and fill with the 
prepared custard. 

160.— CUSTARD NO. i. 

One quart of milk, six ounces of sugar,five yolks, 
five whole eggs, pinch of salt. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, add the milk 
warm, gradually; flavor to suit. 

161.— CUSTARD NO. 2. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, six ounces of 
sugar, one ounce of flour, salt. 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and eggs, and add the 
warm milk and flavor. 

162.— CUSTARD NO. 3. 

One quart of milk, four ounces of sugar, four 
eggs, two ounces of cornstarch. 

Boil the milk and stir in the cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little cold milk. Let cool a little and 
beat in the mixed eggs and sugar; flavor. 

163.— CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PIE. 

Add one or two ounces of chocolate dissolved 
and mixed with the eggs and sugar; flavor with 
vanilla. 

164.— COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 

Put some finely chopped cocoanut in the bot- 
toms before filling up with the custard 
165.— PUMPKIN PIE NO. I. 

One quart of pumpkin, one quart of milk, t^'n 
eggs, five ounces of sugar, five ounces of molasses, 
one ounce of melted and browned butter, one 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of 
mixed cinnamon, nutmeg or allspice. 

i65.— PUMPKIN PIE NO. 2. 

One quart of pumpkin, one quart of milk, six 
to eight eggs, eight ounces of brown sugar, some 
ginger and allspice, a pinch of salt, one ounce of 
melted butter. 

Cut up and peel the pumpkin, remove the 
seeds, steam or boil till soft. Rub through a 
sieve or colander and use as directed. Bake like 
the Custard Pies. 

SQUASH PIE is made just like the Pumpkin 
Pie. 

SWEET POTATO PIE is also made and sea* 
soned like Pumpkin Pie. 



PAUL Richards' book of breads, cakes, pastries, ices and sweetmeats. 



167.— FRUIT CUSTARD PIES. 

The fruit custard pies are made similar to the 
fruit cream pies, only a good strong custard takes 
the place of the cream, and the pies are baked 
like the Custard Pies. 

The preserved fruits and the compotes of fruit 
given in preceding chapters are most suitable for 
this class of pies. 

The pies are served plain baked. 

Line the pie tins with the custard or short 
paste crust, arrange the fruit in an even layer on 
the paste, and fill the pies in the oven with the 
custard by means of a long handled dipper, and 
bake in a medium heat. 

A large variety of fruit custard pies may be 
made in this manner, which should find a ready 
sale at restaurants and lunch counters. 
168.— PRUNE PIES. 

Evaporated prunes should be soaked over night, 
stewed till soft and the stones removed; sweeten 
to taste, flavor with cinnamon and the grated 
rind and juice of lemon; let cool and bake like the 
Apple Pies. 

169.— RAISIN PIE. 

Raisin Pies are made in several ways. The 
large Malaga raisins have the best flavor and 
make the best pie. Cut the raisins in two and 
take out the seeds (or use seeded raisins). Soak 
over night, or for about six hours. For each 
pound of raisins take the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, and from four to six ounces of sugar. 
Stew the raisins till clear; let cool; fill into the 
lined bottoms, put on the cover and bake like 
other pies. 

The other way is to take the seeded raisins, 
some preserved orange or lemon peel and some 
currants, and chop fine like mince meat; season 
with allspice, sweeten with brown sugar and thin 
up with cider, then bake like a mince pie. 

If some stale cake or crackers are added to this 
mixture it makes an excellent MOCK MINCE PIE. 
170.— MINCE PIE. 

Make the mince pie like the Apple Pie with a 
full cover, and serve hot or cold. 

171.— MINCE MEAT. 

The making of mince meat requires a good 
deal of work in its preparation. It improves in 
flavor with age and keeps in good condition for 
several months if properly made. For this rea- 
son it is best if made in a large quantity to last 
for the season, which is generally from Thanks- 
giving till Easter. 

The commercial article differs greatly in qual- 
ity. The best is equal to the home-made article. 
The cheapest is an uncertain mush, seasoned 
with spices. 

The best tart apples, good beef suet and meat 
jnd a good quality of spices should be used. 



Brandy is used in the mince meat for flavoi; 
and also to preserve the mixture, and prevent 
fermentation. 

In the making of the mince meat, much of the 
orange and lemon peel may be used which is left 
from making fruit ices (instead of buying candied 
peel), preparing it in the manner given in the 
chapters on Preserved Fruits. 

I give here a recipe for a large quantity of 
mince meat, which may be reduced to one-half or 
one-fourth for smaller quantities: 

Take five pounds of lean beef, boll, and when 
cold, chop fine; 

Five pounds of suet clear of strings and 
chopped fine; 

Two bushels of apples, peeled, cored and 
chopped fine; 

Five pounds of seeded raisins. 

Four pounds of orange peel. 

Four pounds of citron peel cut up fine, 

Ten pounds of currants. 

Five pounds of Sultanas. 

Mix these with twenty pounds of brown sugar,. 

One quart of brandy and 

One quart of sherry, 

Four gallons of cider. 

One pound of mixed spices — mace, cloves, out- 
meg, ginger and cinnamon. 

One ounce of salt. 

One ounce of pepper. 

Put into a whiskey barrel, or in a coupta of 
very large jars and keep in a cold place. 

When making pies add a little more liquor if" 
necessary. 

172.— FRUIT TARTLETS. 

All the fruit and cream fillings given in former 
recipes may be used for tart fillings; also the fruit 
jams and jellies. 

Take tart paste or puff paste; roll out in a sheet 
about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. Vi/Uh a 
scalloped cutter cut out rounds a little larget than 
the top of the tart tins; put in the greased tins; 
press it well on the sides with a piece of stiff psste; 
put in the filling and bake. 

A quicker way to line the tart molds is to set the 
greased tart forms on the table; roll out a sheet of 
the paste and lay it over the tins. With a rbund 
ball of paste press the other paste in the tins and 
cut off the surplus paste, pressing through with 
the hands. Set the forms on a pan, fill and bake. 
The fruit tarts may be decorated with meringue 
or whipped cream as fancy dictates. 
173.— MAZARINE OR MASERENE TARXS 
NO. I. 

Four ounces of almond paste, eight ouncws of 
sugar, one ounce of flour, four eggs. 

174,— MAZARINE TART NO. 2. 

Four ounces of ground almonds, four ounces of 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



cake crumbs, ten ounces of sugar, two eggs, little 
milk, two drops of bitter almond extract, the 
grated rind of one lemon. 

175.— MAZARINE TART NO. 3. 

Four ounces of almond paste, four ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of butter, three eggs, two 
ounces of crumbs, the grated rind of one lemon, 
a little milk. 

176.— MAZARINE TART NO. 4. 

Eight ounces of almond paste, eight ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, 
three yolks, three whole eggs; cinnamon and 
lemon flavor. 

Mix the ingredients into a soft paste, fill into the 
patty tins lined with tart paste or puff paste, put 
a cross of strips of the same paste on top, (or use 
four split half almonds to form a cross). Bake in 
medium heat. 

Ice with a vanilla water icing when done. 
177.— ALMOND TARTS. 

Prepare a soft paste with sufficient whites of 
eggs same as for Macaroons, from twelve ounces 
of sugar, four ounces of almond paste, four ounces 
of cake crumbs. Fill into pufi paste lined tart 
forms, place a cross of strips on top of the filling 
and bake in medium heat. 

178.— ALMONTINES. 

Line tins with pufi paste, put a spoonful of 
orange or other fruit jam in the bottom. Make a 
mixture like a cake batter of four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, four ounces of flour, four ounces of 
crushed almonds, eight ounces of sugar; flavor 
with vanilla and mix with a little milk. Put on 
a cross of paste and bake. 

Decorate with meringue or ice same as for 

No. 17s. 

179.— PEACH TARTS. 

Make a short paste from one and one-quarter 
pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
butter and one ounce of sugar; rub flour and 
butter together dry with the sugar; add three 
yolks and a little water. Take muffin rings, but- 
ter them well and set on a greased pan. Line 
rings with the paste and finish the top like for 
custard pie; fill the center with the peeled fruit, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a medium heat. 
180.— SARATOGA TARTLETS. 

Line tart molds with pufi paste, and fill with 
this custard: One pint of cream, three yolks, two 
whole eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, two 
ounces of crushed almonds, one drop of bitter 
almond extract, three ounces of sugar. 

Prepare same as for other custards and fill into 
the lined molds; bake, and sift some powdered 
sugar over when done. 

181.— PORTUGESE TARTS. 

Prepare same as for Saratoga Tartlets. Fill 



half with apple marmalade and the remaining 
space with the custard, then bake. 

182.— CHELSEA TARTS. 
Roll out puff paste about one-quarter of an inch 
thick; cut in rounds three inches in diameter; 
wash with water and place in the center of each 
round some firm apple marmalade. Fold up the 
sides and pinch together in the shape of a three 
cornered hat; egg wash the sides and bake to a 
nice color. When done, place a little bright 
colored currant jelly on the marmalade and deco- 
rate the sides with Royal icing. 

183.— MACAROON TARTS. 

Prepare a short paste as for No. 179. Roll out 
to quarter of an inch thick and cut in scalloped 
rounds two and one-half inches in diameter. Place 
the rounds on greased baking pans a little apart. 
Take a pastry bag and star tube, fill with a firm 
macaroon paste and make a border around the 
edge of each cake. Bake in a medium heat to a 
nice color, and when baked fill the center with 
fruit jam, jelly or pastry cream. 

184.— CONDE TARTS. 

Roll out puff paste to one-eighth of an inch 
thick, cut in scallopped rounds. Wet the edge 
of half of the rounds and fill center with a soft 
macaroon paste. Place the other rounds on top 
of the almond paste and press down the sides 
with the back of a smaller cutter. Make a cross 
incision on top. Egg wash and bake to a nice color. 

185.— ST. HONORE CREAM TARTS. 
Roll out puff paste to one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Cut out rounds three inches in diameter, 
place on wet baking pan and let rest for thirty 
minutes in a cool place. Fill a pastry bag with 
Cream Puff Paste No. 102 and make a border of 
dots around the edge of the cut-out rounds. Prick 
the center all over with a fork. Wash the border 
with egg yolks and bake in a brisk oven. When 
baked brush the border with vanilla icing while 
hot. Fill the center in pyramid form with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream, or pastry 
cream. Sprinkle with blanched, shredded and. 
browned almonds and serve. 

186.— WINE CREAM TARTLETS. 

Prepare a wine cream filling same as No. 118 
from one quart of white wine, twelve ounces of 
sugar, twelve yolks, two ounces of cornstarch, 
one stick of cinnamon, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon. Line molds with puff paste and 
bake before filling (see No. 133). Fill the baked 
shells with the cream, sift some powdered maca- 
roons over and serve. 

187.— GERMAN CHEESE TARTS. 

Rub eight ounces of dry curd through a sieve, 
add four yolks, four beaten whites, six ounces of 



22 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

sugar, a little cream, two ounces of melted but- Put some preserved fruit in the bottom, fill 

ter, Hie grated rind of one lemon, a little grated with pastry cream and bake to a nice color, 

nutmeg. , Fill the mixture in pufE paste lined Decorate with a lattice of meringue, dust with 

molds, dust some cinnamon over and bake. When sugar and put back in the oven to color, 

done sift over some powdered sugar and serve. 193. — DAKIOLES- 

188.— CINNAMON TARTLETS. One pint of cream, six ounces of stale maoa- 

Line the molds with Short Paste No. 82. Beat roons. six yolks, six ounces of sugar, one ounce of 

a half pint of whites of eggs into a meringue with butter, two ounces of candied orange peel chopped 

twelve ounces of sugar. Mix with six ounces of &oe. 



ground almonds, and one-quarter of an ounce of 
cinnamon. Fill into the molds, dust with granu- 
lated sugar and bake in a slack oven. 

189.— GERMAN POPPY-SEED TARTS. 
Line the molds with Short Paste No. 82. Take 
four ounces of poppy seed, six ounces of sugar; 
pound and rub to a cream in a mortar with three 
eggs; add one pint of cream or rich milk. Fill in- 
to the tart forms, dust with sugar, and bake. 

190.— METROPOLITAN TARTS. 
Line tart molds with pu& paste, fill with pastry 
cream. Take some soft macaroon paste, put in- 
to a bag, and cover the cream with the paste. 
Bake in medium beat; fee pink and sprinkle with 
cocoanut. 

191.— FLORADORA TARTLETS. 
Line the tart shells with tart paste or puff paste. 
Fill with mixture No. 157, and bake. Decorate 
with pink meringue, sprinkle with cocoanut, dust 
with sugar and put back in the oven for a minute 
to color. 

192.— DARIOLES. 
MIRLITONS. 
FANCHONETTES. 
Are the French names for small cream and 
fruit tarts. 

The Darioles are similar to the Almontines, the 
only difference being that powdered macaroons 
are used in place of almonds. 

Mirlitons are made like a fruit custard pie — a 
little preserve in the bottom of the lined tins, 
filled up with custard and baked. 

Fanchonettes are pufi paste lined tarts filled 
with a rich almond pastry cream or custard. 



Stir the cream and crushed macaroons well to- 
gether, add the yolks, the melted butter and 
minced peel; fill into the tart molds lined with 
tart paste and bake in a medium heat to a nice 
color. Dust with sugar and serve plain or deco- 
rate with meringue. 

194.— CHEESE TARTS. 

One pound of Cottage Cheese or cheese curd, 
eight ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, six 
eggs, two ounces of chopped almonds, two ounces 
of chopped orange and citron peel, the grated rind 
of one lemon, a little ground mace. 

Rub the cheese through a sieve, add the yolks, 
sugar and other ingredients, melt the butter and 
add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Fill into 
puff paste lined pans and bake. Sift some powd- 
ered sugar and cinnamon over the tarts when done. 

Some Sultana raisins and currants may be 
added to this mixture. 

195.— CHEESE CUSTARD TARTS. 

Take eight ounces of dry grated cheese, mix 
with eight eggs, six ounces of sugar, the grated 
rind of one lemon. Beat in gradually one quart 
of milk, fill into the lined tart molds and bake. 
Dust with sugar and cinnamon when done. 
196.— ENGLISH CHEESE TARTS. 

Many of the English tart fillings are called 
cheese fillings, but are in fact custards mixed with 
cake crumbs and other ingredients, and nuts and 
flavors from which they take the name. 

No cheese is used in the tarts. 

In this manner a great variety of fruit, nut, 
chocolate, and other cream combinations are 
made to serve as tart fillings. 

From one standard filling, changing the flavors 



baked, cooled and decorated with a meringue or and other ingredients, a great many mixtures can 
other icing, which may be made more elaborate be made. 



by adding candied fruits. 

The fancy nut cream fillings, with and without 
chocolate, given in Nos. 111-117, make the best 
fillings for these tarts. 
FANCHONETTES A LA VANILLE. 

Fill with vanilla pastry cream. 
FANCHONETTES AU CHOCOLAT. 

Fill with chocolate cream. 
FANCHONETTES AUX AMANDES. 

Fill with almond cream. 
FANCHONETTES AUX FRUITS. 



When the tarts are baked, they may be decor- 
ated in various ways. Use a pink water icing and 
sprinkle with cocoanut, decorate with royal icing, 
with a cornet and small star tube. 

Or dip the edge of the tarts in diluted jelly and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. 

Ice white and decorate with a star of angelica 
and candied cherries. 

Ice chocolate and decorate with white or pink 
design. 

The colored sugars may also be used for dec 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES 

oration. With a little ingenuity these suggestions 
may be multiplied many times by the skillful 
workman. 

197.— STANDARD MIXTURE FOR CHEESE- 
CAKES. 

One pound of sugar, 

One pound of butter, 

One pint of milk. 

One pint of eggs, 

One and one-half pounds of dry crumbs, 

The grated rind of one lemon, 

A little ground mace. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream with the 
eggs, add flavor and milk, and mix in the crumbs. 
Keep this filling in the ice box and use as sug- 
gested above. Add nut or peel to the filling; or 
put some preserved fruit in the bottom of the 
tart and put on the filling; or bake and spread the 
fruit jam or jelly on when baked. For chocolate 
cheese tarts add powdered cocoa or chocolate and 
bake and ice as directed. 

198.— GERMAN CRUMB TARTS. 
WILHELMINAS. 

These tarts are baked in small mufSn rings, 
and make a very rich tart, if made with juicy 
fruit such as cherries, grapes and peaches. 

One pound eight ounces of cake crumbs, eigh- 
teen ounces of flour, twenty-seven ounces of but- 
ter, fifteen ounces of sugar, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of baking 
soda, the juice of one lemon. 

Rub the butter in the flour and crumbs and 
mix like a cookie mixture. Set on ice to harden 
before using. Grease the rings well and set on 
greased baking pan; fill the rings half full with 
the mixture, and press it up on the sides of the 
rings. Put in the center a few cherries or other 
juicy fruit with a pinch of sugar and bake. 
199.— ALEXANDRAS. 

One pound of cake crumbs, eight ounces of 
ground almonds, two ounces of butter, six ounces 
of sugar, four eggs, pinch of baking powder, 
flavor vanilla. 

Mix same way as in No. 198. If the crumbs 
are very dry add some milk; put into the well 
greased rings, sprinkle a few shredded almonds 
on top and bake. 

200.— BERLINS. 

One pound of crumbs, six ounces of chopped 
almonds, eight ounces of Sultana raisins, six 
ounces of sugar, three eggs, the grated rind of 
one lemon, little milk to mix. 

Make the mixture same as No. 199. Roll out a 
thin bottom of Tart Paste No. 82. Put it on a 
greased baking pan, set the greased rings close 
together on the paste and press down. Fill in the 
mixture, put some sliced almonds on top and 
bake. Ice with vanilla icing when cold. 



PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



23 



201— FRENCH CREAM TARTS. 

Roll out a thin sheet of Pnfi Paste No. 75 or 
No. 76. Cut out with a crimped cutter into two 
inch rounds; put on a wet baking sheet a little 
apart. Take some Cream Puff Paste No. 102, and 
with bag and plain tube dress a ring on top of the 
cut out pieces, to leave an open space in the 
center. Bake the tarts thus made. When done 
ice the ring with vanilla icing, fill the center with 
pastry cream, sprinkle some browned almonds on 
top, or decorate with French fruit glace. 
202.— VIENNA TARTLETS. 

Roll out a sheet from the German tart mixture 
No. 84 and cut out round pieces with a plain or 
crimped cutter; set on pans. Take Meringue 
Paste No. 93 or No. 94, put in dressing bag and 
make a high ring around the edge; sprinkle with 
chopped almonds, dust with sugar and bake in a 
slack oven. When done, fill the center with fruit 
jams or pastry cream and decorate to suit. 
203.— VIENNA NUT TART. 

Eight ounces of ground nuts, eight ounces of 
sugar, oight ounces of butter, eight yolks of eggs, 
the grated rind of one lemon, the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a firm froth. 

Mix the ingredients together, adding the whites 
the last thing. Line the tart forms with paste 
No. 84, fill in the mixture and bake in a medium 
heat. 

204.— LEMON TARTLETS. 

Rub eight ounces of almond paste with the 
juice and grated rind of two lemons and eight 
ounces of sugar. Make a custard of one quart of 
rich milk, twelve yolks and six ounces of sugar; 
mix custard and the almond paste together and 
fill in puff paste lined tart molds; bake in medium 
heat; ice or dust with powdered sugar when done. 
* 

ICINGS. 
203.— FONDANT ICING. 

To make this icing requires a marble slab, same 
as used for candy making; also the regular iron 
candy bars and a long wooden spatula or paddle. 

Take five pounds of granulated sugar, eight 
ounces of glucose and one quart of water. (More 
or less glucose may be used, or it may be left out 
altogether, but confectioners generally use glu- 
cose for cream fondants). 

Boil the sugar to the soft ball degree. Wetths 
marble with a little water. Put on the iron bars 
in a square or oblong and pour the boiling sugar 
on the slab. Sprinkle a little water on the top. 
Let the sugar become nearly cold; scrape off the 
bars and work it with the scraper loose from the 
bottom to the center; then work with the spatula 
back and forth till it gets white and creamy and 
begins to harden. Scrape all together, working 



24 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



it with the hands in one piece. Put in a jar, 
cover with a wet cloth and put away for use. 

When wanted for use take what yon require, 
put it in a saucepan, add what flavor and color 
you wish it to be, set this pan in another pan with 
hot water, or on a slow fire, and stir till it is all 



Other caramel icing may be made by adding 
caramel coloring to Fondant and other icings. 

210.— ROYAL ICING. 
The Royal icing is used for icing and also for 
ornamenting. It dries rapidly if exposed to the 
air and should be kept well covered with a damp 

"_^,'.'*^V_^° °°^''^.^V'''^,'''i°^ ."""'l'^!"-"""^ cloth at all times, in a cool place. 

For ornamenting it is beaten with the whites of 



warm, because too much heat makes the icing 
lose its creamy texture and it becomes hard and 
brittle — loses its gloss. 

When the icing is soft enough it should be used 
at once, because it sets and dries >quickly. 

The large cakes are iced with the palette knife; 
the smaller drops and the cut-up blocks are dipped 
in the icing and set on wire grates to drain. 

Fondant is also used between the layers of 
cakes as a filling, because of its creamy consist- 
ency; and it is used in candy making to form the 
body of the chocolate and other cream candies, etc. 

206.— TRANSPARENT ICING. 
Boil two pounds of sugar to the blow degree. 
Take off the fire and rub a little of it against the 
side of the pan to grain. As soon as it gets white 
and creamy stir it into the other sugar; and use 
same as Fondant Icing No. 205 while hot. 

207.— IMITATION FONDANT ICING. 
WATER ICING. 

Take any quantity of icing sugar (XXXX powd- 
ered sugar)' and mix with hot water into a thin 
paste; color and flavor to suit. Have the icing 
not more than blood warm and use same as Fond- 
ant Icing No. 205. 

The same icing made with cold water and the 
proper flavor and color makes the plain water 
icing. 

The cold icing does not dry as readily as the 
hot icing, but is used like the others. 

208.— BOILED CHOCOLATE ICING. 
Dissolve six ounces of bitter chocolate (un- 
sweetened) with one pound of sugar and half a 
pint of water, let boil till it forms a thread be- 
tween the fingers. Take off the fire, stir till it 
forms a thin skin on top; stir till blood warm and 
use same as the Fondant Icing No. 205. Flavor 
vanilla. 

209.— CREAM CARAMEL ICING. 

One pound of granulated sugar, six ounces of 
butter, half pint of cream. 

Boil all the ingredients together to the soft ball. 
Take ofi the fire and add a little caramel color. 
Cool a little and use same as Fondant Icing No. 205. 

Chocolate may be added for Chocolate Cream 
Icing. Flavor vanilla. 

This icing may be used also between the layers 
for chocolate and caramel cream cake, and has 
the true caramel flavor. 



eggs till it retails its shape if drawn to a point. 
For icing it is only beaten to about the consist- 
ency of a cream, so it runs smooth. 

The sugar should be run through a very fine 
sieve before using, to prevent lumps clogging the 
cornet in decorating. 

Much acid makes a coarse icing, and very little 
should be used for piping; or none at all if a tough 
icing for fine thread lining is required. 

Make the icing pretty strong at the beginning 
and work up white and light; then add a little 
more of the whites till it is of the proper con- 
sistency. 

Take from three to four whites of eggs to one 
pound of XXXX powdered sugar, a small pinch 
of cream of tartar, or one drop of acetic acid; put 
in a china bowl and beat with one or two small 
spatulas, (one in each hand), and treat as directed 
above. 

211.— FRUIT ICING. 

Take clear fruit syrup and mix with XXXX 
powdered sugar to a smooth paste; add a little 
more color and use. 

212.— CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Mix some chocolate which has been melted 
with Fondant or Royal icing. Flavor vanilla. 

Another way is: Dissolve four ounces of un- 
sweetened chocolate with some hot water and add 
one pound of XXXX powdered sugar; mix well 
together warm; flavor vanilla and use. 

Whites of eggs may be added for gloss. Some 
use cocoa butter; and for cheap icings add lard to 
the warm icing. 

213 — MARSHMALLOW ICING. 

Take one ounce of marshmallow iciline powder; 
or use half an ounce of powdered gelatine, half 
an ounce of powdered gum arable, one pound of 
icing sugar and one pint of warm water. Beat 
up together in a pan of hot water. When light, 
take ofi and beat cold till it is firm. Flavor 
vanilla and orange. 

If the mixture is too firm more water may be 
added. 

This icing is used mostly for cake filling. In 
larger quantities it is beaten up by machine. 

Iciline powder for marshmallow icing and 
other icing powders are sold by all the confec- 
tioners' supply houses. 



PAV)C RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBin PA5TKIES, IC£S AND SWEETMEATS. 



214.— CHEAP GELATINE ICINGS. 
^In place of whites of eggs, gelatine and albu- 
men is used for cheaper goods. Take two ounces 
of gelatine and let it soak in one quart of cold 
water for twenty minutes. Set on the fire and 
let come to a slow boil. Take ofi the scum which 
arises, and remove from the fire. Add a good pinch 
of powdered alum, mix it well and set away for use. 

To use it, take as much as wanted; mix with an 
even part of warm water and add XXXX powd- 
ered sugar, beat it up same as Royal Icing No. 
210; flavor and color to suit. 

215.— ALMOND PASTE ICING. 

Take one pound of almond paste and one pound 
of powdered sugar. Make it into a medium paste 
with about two whole eggs; or use yolks only. 



The best white fresh butter without salt should 
be used. It may be flavored with cordials or ex- 
tracts and colored any shade. 

For Chocolate cream Icing add powdered 
cocoa and flavor vanilla. Take one pound of 
white butter, one pound eight ounces of icing 
sugar. Rub to a cream with three whites of eggs, 
or four tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. Flavor 
maraschino or rum; color to suit. 

The Vienna Cream Fillings No. 122 and No. 123 
may be used for the same purpose, 

2i6>^.— USE OF COLORS IN ICING CAKES. 
The use of colors in icing cakes should be care- 



Flavor vanilla. Spread over the cake, top and fully studied to produce the proper effects. Green 
sides, with a palette knife; or put the paste in colors should be used sparingly because many 



the bag with the plain or star tube and decorate 
the cake with the icing in this manner: Put the 
cake on a board or double paper and put in the 
oven to color nicely. When done finish the cake 
with Fondant Icing No. 205 or Royal Icing N0.210. 
216.— CHOCOLATE CREAM ICING. 

VIENNA CREAM ICING. 

BUTTER ICING. 



people object to green, except it is in the shape 
of pistachio nuts or angelica. Delicate colors 
are admissable in all decorations, while strong 
colors are offensive to good taste. Fondant and 
water icings may be used in connection with 
candied French fruit glaces for decoration; and 



This icing may be used for filling as well as for clear fruit jellies of different colors make also 
ornamenting. very pleasing effects. 



END OF SECOND PART 



PART 3. 

CAKE BAKING. 

217— NEW RECEIPTS AND POINTS ON be dissolved in milk or added dry. Grated lemon 
CAKE MAKING ''°^ ^^^ spices may be added to the sugar. The 

T , . . . ,-.., .J i.u liquid extracts are added after the butter is 

In makmg up a new receipt a little study of the ^ , . , . , , , , „ 

_..,. -J. v.- 1. creamed with the sugar and eggs, before the flour, 

materials is required, to obtain proper results; " "^ 

J ^- u u 1. 1 1 L i.1. 1 - i.1. Put the sugar and butter in the mixing bowl, 

and notice should be taken how they work in the . , ° . , ,. , 

_. , (it IS best for creaming to have the butter a little 

mixtures. * , , . , ., . „ 

„, J J 1 1 1 VI o-i. soft, but not too soft, as it becomes oily). Cream 

The same goods do not work always alike. The ' 

flours differ greatly in their water- absorbing '^e butter and sugar light before adding the eggs. 

, -I .t j-j-c .t. J 111. Have the eggs cold and add them two at a time; 
power; and so do the different brands of starch. °° 

n,, ,.^. , „ J 1 u iu work them in well; add more again, till they are 

These qualities of flour and starch cause the „ & 1 / 

_• 1 , ^j.- ^ 1: ^ all worked in. 

mixtures, cakes or creams, getting too nrm or too 

,, ., , J 1 L ij Some bakers add a little flour during mixing to 

soft as the case may be; and more or less should " ° 

be used, or more liquid added to obtain the right P'^^"' '^^ '="'^"°g °^ ^^g" ^""^ ^•^""^ ^°<^ 
- . others cream flour and butter to prevent oiling in 

rpi, ... J u -I- 1 ii. tbe hot season, adding the sugar and eggs well 

The baking and boiling process also causes the > & b && 

evaporation of the liquids, and if continued too beaten together in the mixture. 
long, causes the drying out of the articles made. " "'"^ '^ "'""^ '° ""^ '"■=""'^ '* '= ^^^^^ ^^'^^ 
The best pastry and cake flours are the red ""^ ^^gs are creamed with the butter; also the 

winter wheat flours of Missouri and Illinois. The ^^'"'='"= '^^° "'^ ^™^ ■= ^°'^^^ •°- ^' '= ^^^^ 
Michigan and Ohio flours are more starchy, and '° ^^^"^ = ^'"'^ °^ "'^ "^'"^ °'''' " °°' ^""^^ °^ ""« 
a little strong patent flour may be used with these ""^"^''^ °^ "'^ ^°°'^' '° P^^^^°' g^"'°g *'^^ '"'''- 
flours for cake mixtures. ^""^^ .'°° ''^'=''- ^""^ ^'^^ '* ^*'" '^« ^^"^ '= ^" '° " 

Flour merchants sell cake flours which are " ' 
blended specially for cake baking. ^f f™^'s or peels are used, they should be added 

If baking powder or cream of tartar is used it ""^^^ "^^ ^°^^ '^ ^^°^^ ^^^^ ™'='^<i '°- F°r heavy 
should be sifted in the flour; and all the flour fruitcakes, the fruits and spices may be mixed 
should be sifted before using it in the mixtures. '"'"^ ^y^^P °'^ ^'^^^°^ '^^^ day before using, and 

For cake and meringues the sugar should be P"' '° *^^^ mixture. For lighter cakes the fruit 
dry and sifted before using. should be soft but dry, to prevent sinking in the 

A good tough butter makes the best cream and '^^^^^ during baking, 
the lightest cake. Very salty butter should be The baking of pastry and cakes requires differ- 
washed before using. ent degrees of heat. Puff Paste from 400 to 450 

The eggs should be as fresh as possible and the degrees Fahrenheit; Pie Paste 350 to 400 degrees 
breaking and separating be done carefully, be- Fahrenheit; also cream puffs, lady-fingers, layer 
cause one egg is liable to spoil the whole batch- cakes and light cookies, from 300 to 350 degrees 
The safest way is to break the eggs one by one in Fahrenheit; the large cakes, which contain milk 
a cup; or, if separating the whites, in two cupsi ^°'^ baking powder, from 250 to 300 degrees 
before adding them to the other eggs. Fahrenheit; and the heavy pound and fruit cake, 

When mixing cakes it is best to have all the about 200 degrees Fahrenheit. Hard cakes which 
materials ready which go into the mixture, so the consist of sugar and eggs only, or with little flour, 
mixing can proceed without interruption. Begin ^'^o the meringues, require still less heat in bak- 
by preparing the pans in which the cake is to be '°6- Large sheet and layer cakes, also the heavy 
baked; then weigh the sugar. (If butter is used 'arge cakes, should be moved as little as possible 
put it on top of the sugar, adding the additional ^"r'ng 'be time they are coming up in the oven, 
weight: this prevents the sticking of the butter to ^^ moving causes the mixture to fall, 
the scales). Next weigh the flour and add the Sometimes it is advisable to bake the cakes on 
baking powder or cream of tartar, and sift it with double pans when the oven has got too much bot- 
the flour into a pan or on a paper. Then break tom heat; and large cakes require covering with 
up or separate the eggs, and measure eggs and paper to prevent baking too much color, 
milk. If soda is used dissolve it in the milk. When a large cake is fully baked, it shrinks 
Ammonia should be powdered very fine and may lightly from the sides, and feels elastic to th« 



PAUL JUCBAROS' BOOK OF BKIAOS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. V} 

touch of the fingeis. The cakes may also be and Drop cake. . . By adding a little more milk it 

tested by sticking a splinter of irood in the center: can be made into a Layer or Sheet cake. . . By 

if it comes oat dry the cake is done. using whites of eggs instead of whole eggs, this 

Snbstittttes for bntter are nsed in form of batter- makes Silver cake or White Mountain cake. . . It 

ine, lard and cottolene, for commercial cake colored partly chocolate and red it makes Choco- 

making. late cake. . . And all three colors combined makes 

Cakes of the cheaper kind are made without Marble cake, 

eggs. Coloring is used in place of eggs; and a si8. — FOUND CAKES. 

strong flour is used with baking powder to make The old pound to pound mixtures have changed 

large cakes. in recent years into many other combinations. 

It is advisable to use always the best materials and given other names as Madeira and Genoa 

«nd, when making up a new receipt, figure out cakes, etc. Most all the plain cakes which con- 

^e cost, note the amonnt got out of the receipt, tain no fruit are termed pound cakes, and the 

%dA. use it for a reference the nest time. lighter kinds of these cakes contain milk andbak- 

To make this book suitable for all classes of the ing powder, less eggs and butter and more floor, 

trade. I give a variety of receipts for caterers, 219.— OLD TIME POUND CAKES, 

and also for the general cake trade, where lower One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, ono 

prices obtain. pound of flour, one pint of eggs, a little nutmeg 

The most difficult cakes to prepare properly are grated, and the grated rind of one lemon, 

the mixtures which contain no baking powder- ^^^.-O^SD TIME POUND CAKES NO. 2. 

the rich pound and sponge cakes. _ ^^ ^^^^ ^j ^^^ ^^^^ ^j ^^^^^^ ^^ 

The lightening agent >n the sponge mixtures is ^^^ ^j g^„^_ ^^^^^^ ^gg^_ ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^, 

the air beaten into the eggs. ^^^^^ ^j^^ ,^^^^ ^.^^ ^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^ 

In some mixtures the sugar and eggs are beaten ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^ ^ jj^^ ^^^^. 

together, mostly warm till hght and then cold; in ^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^ ^^^^ j^^^^ ^^^^ j^ ^^,j_ 

others the eggs are separated the yolks are then add the flour; mix in lightly but fully. Put 

stirred light with the sugar, and the whites are ,1^^ ^j^^^,^ j„ U^^^ A pound cake 

beaten to a firm froth; both are put together be- should be about two and one-half inches thick when 

fore the flour is added. j^^^^^j. j^ ^^j^^^ ^^^^ ^^ jj^j^ thickness, and has a 

For the rich pound and lady cake mixtures the ^j^ appearance when cut. A baking heat of 200 

creaming of the butter and sugar should be done ,^ ^ Fahrenheit is the most suitable for 

carefully. It is best to have the butter a little j. • -gi,, 

soft, but do not let it become oily. If the cream p^^ ^^^ ^^^ j^ ^^ ^^j^ ,^j^^ ^^ j^^^ ^j^^ 

gets too warm it injures the rich cakes. The ^ ^^jj g^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ j^j^ ^^ ^^ 

mixtures which contain baking powder are not so j^^ ^^^ j^ ^^^^ ^,1^^^^ ^^^ .^^^ ^^ ^^^ 

easily affected by this, because they are lightened ^^^^^ ^^ ^^p ^^^ ^j^^^ p^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ j^j^^j^^^ 

Dy tne powaer. cakes they should be baked in round rings of the 

The rich fruit cake mixtures are made from the proper size, which make a more attractive cake 

pound and white cake preparations. The fruit is ^hen ornamented. 

added for the heavy wedding and Christmas cakes 221. POUNDCAKES NO. 2. 

in proportion of two pounds of mixed peel and Three pounds of sugar, two and one-half pounds 

fruit to one pound of cake batter; sometimes with ^t butter, three pounds of flour, thirty-six eggs, 

less sugar. The lighter cakes contain from six one-eighth of an ounce of baking powder, vanilla 

ounces to one pound of fruit to one pound of batter, flavor. 

Caterers prepare the holiday fruit cakes a sift the powder in the flour and mix same as 

month or more before they are used; this makes jjo. 220. 

the cake mellow and they are greatly improved 222.— POUND CAKES NO. 3. 

by age. One and three-quarters pounds of sugar, one 

Many of the lighter cake mixtures can be used and one-half pounds of butter, twenty-four eggs, 

for a stock mixture to make several kinds of cake two and one-quarter pounds of flour, one-half of 

from, by changing or adding to the ingredients, a teaspoonful of baking powder, one-eighth of a 

For instance, take the mixture of No. 229 and pint of milk, lemon and mace, or vanilla flavor. 

No. 224. The mixture will make a plain Pound Cream butter and sugar as in the other mix- 

or Wine cake, or. with a little more flour and tures; sift the flour and baking powder together, 

fruit added, a light Citron, Sultana, Currant or then add half of the flour. Mix in well, add the 

Nut cake. . . If the mixture is worked more after milk; mix again, add the rest of the flour and finish 

the flour has been added it will make nice Cup mixing. A little more or less of the milk may be 



28 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BRBADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



required to make smooth, which may be added 
after the flour is in, beating the mixture smooth 
again. 

223.— GENOA POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, fifteen 
eggs, one and one-half pounds of flour, the grated 
rind of one lemon, the juice of half a lemon, 
flavor of mace, a pinch of soda. 

Sift the soda well in the flour. Cream same as 
for other pound cake, adding the lemon juice and 
flavor, and mix in the flour. A little milk may 
be added if needed. Bake like pound cakes; or in 
small pans, dusted with sugar and with a strip of 
lemon peel on top. 

224— PLAIN GENOA POUND CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, one pound 
of butter, ten eggs, two pounds of flour, one and 
one-half ounces of baking powder, lemon flavor, 
milk to mix. 

Mix same as for Pound Cake No. 222. 

This mixture may be used for a stock mixture 
to make a variety of other cakes, making the mix- 
ture rather slack at the start and changing the 
ingredients, adding more eggs or flour, as I have 
suggested in No. 217. 

225.— MADEIRA CAKES. 

One pound four ounces of sugar, one pound one 
ounce of butter, one pound four ounces of flour, 
a pinch of baking powder, nine eggs, a half pint 
of whites oi eggs. 

Mix same as for pound cakes. Bake in small 
square tins, with a strip of citron on top. 

This mixture is well suited for a light fruit cake. 
226.— MADEIRA CAKES NO. 2. 

One pound eight ounces of butter, one pound 
twelve ounces of sugar, sixteen eggs, eight ounces 
of cornstarch, one pound four ounces of flour, an 
eighth of an ounce of baking powder, a little milk, 
the grated rind of one lemon, a little mace. 

Sift flour, starch and baking powder well to- 
gether. Mix same as for pound cake, adding the 
milk when the flour is nearly all mixed in. Bake 
in 250 degrees Fahrenheit. 

227.— MADEIRA CAKES NO. 3. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, one pound of 
butter, sixteen eggs, one and one-half pounds of 
flour, four ounces of cornstarch, the grated rind 
of one lemon. 

Mix same as for No. 226. Bake in small pans 
and dust with sugar before baking. 

228— NEW YORK POUND CAKES. 

Two pounds of powdered sugar, one and one- 
quarter pounds of butter (or use half butter and 
half lard), one and one-half pints of eggs, one and 
one-half pints of milk, two and three-quarter 
pounds of flour, one and one-half ounces of baking 
powder, vanilla flavor. 



229.— NEW YORK POUND CAKE NO. 2. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, one pound of 
butter, ten eggs, one pint of milk, two and one- 
quarter pounds of flour, one and one-quarter 
ounces of baking powder, flavor. 

Cream butter and sugar; gradually work in the 
eggs and add the milk, (leave out a. little of th9 
milk; add it after the flour is drawn in), and fin- 
ish mixing. 

This mixture, like No. 224, may be used for 9 
stock mixture for other cakes (see No. 217). 

For light Fruit Cakes add four ounces more of 
flour and add one and one-half pounds of fruit- 
sultanas, citron or currants, etc. Bake in about 
300 degrees Fahrenheit. 

230.— SPANISH POUND CAKE. 

Two pounds four ounces of sugar, two pounds 
of butter, two and one-half pounds of flour, a half 
ounce of baking powder, one quart of yolks, a 
half pint of milk, vanilla flavor. 

Mix and finish same as for Found Cakes. 
231.— SPANISH POUND CAKE NO. 2. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, one pound of 
butter, one pint of whole eggs, or yolks, three- 
quarters of a pint of milk, two pounds of flour, 
three-quarters of an ounce of baking powder, 
orange and vanilla flavor. 

Mix same as directed in No. 229, and bake in 
the same heat. 

232.— ENGLISH SEED POUND CAKE. 

One pound four ounces of sugar, one pound of 
butter, twelve eggs, a half ounce of carraway seed- 
one pound six ounces of flour, one-eighth of an 
ounce of baking powder, the grated rind of one 
lemon. 

Mix same as Pound Cake. Add one more egg, 
or a little milk, if the mixture requires it. 

[Oil of carraway may be used with very little oi 
the seed if too much seed is objectionable], 
233— WINE CAKES. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, one pound of 
butter, one pint of eggs, one pint of milk, one 
ounce of baking powder, two and one-half pounds 
of flour, vanilla flavor. 

234.— WINE CAKES NO. 2. 

One pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, a half 
pint of yolks, one pint of milk, one and one-hall 
pounds of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of 
baking powder, lemon or vanilla flavor. 

Bake in the same temperature as New York 
Found Cake No. 229. 

Wine cakes are baked generally in the small 
round or square tins, five- and ten-cent size. 
235.— SPANISH CAKE. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, twelve ounces 
of butter, ten ounces of flour, ten ounces of corn- 
starch, twenty-two eggs, orange flower flavor. 



PAUL RICHARD? BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 3g 



Separate the eggs; sift flour and cornstarch to- 
gether. Cream butter, sugar and yolks same as 
for Pound Cake; leave out eight ounces of the 
sugar; beat the whites firm and add the sugar 
same way as for a meringue. Mix both parts to- 
gether and add the flour and starch. Bake in a 
slow beat as for Pound Cakes. When done, let 
cool and ice with the almond icing; let dry and 
ice with a pink fondant, flavor with rose or mar- 
aschino, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts, 
236.— SPONGE POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, two ounces of corn.starch, pinch 
of baking powder, sixteen eggs, the grated rind 
of one lemon, little mace. 

Sift powder in the flour and starch; separate 
the eggs, rub the yolks with the butter and sugar; 
beat the whites firm and mix. Add the flouri 
draw it in lightly but fully, and bake in 300 de- 
grees Fahrenheit. 

237.— SPONGE POUND CAKE NO. 2. 

One pound four ounces of powdered sugar, one 
pound four ounces of butter, ten whole eggs, 
twelve yolks, one pound of flour, four ovmces of 
cornstarch, the grated rind of one lemon, a half 
teaspoon of mace. 

Sift the flour and starch together; put the eggs, 
yolks and sugar in a basin or kettle, and beat on a 
slow fire till warm, not hot. Take off and beat 
till light and foamy, which will take about thirty 
minutes or more. Add the flavor, mix in the 
flour and, last, the melted butter. Put in the 
paper lined pans and bake in a medium heat of 

about 300 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 

* 

WHITE CAKES. 

238.— LADY CAKE. 

Three pounds four ounces of powdered sugar 
(or very fine granulated), three pounds of white 
butter, three pints of whites of eggs, one pound of 
Strong flour, three pounds of cake flour, one 
ounce cf baking powder, flavor of vanilla and 
mace, or rose. 

Cream butter, two pounds of the sugar with 
one pint of whites; beat the other two pints to a 
firm froth and add the remaining sugar as for 
Meringue; mix both parts together, add the flour 
with the baking powder, mix lightly but fully and 
bake like Pound Cake. 

This makes a very rich birthday or brides cake 
mixture. 

339.— LADY CAKES NO. 2. 

Two pounds of butter, two and one-half pounds 
of sugar, two and three-quarter pints of whites of 
eggs, two and one- half pounds of flour, one-eighth 
of an ounce of cream of tartar, one-eighth cf an 
ounce of soda. 



Sift the soda and cream of tartar in the flour 
(use a strong cake flour, or half spring and half 
winter). Mix and bake same as No. 238. 
240.— LADY CAKES NO. 3. 

One pound eight ounces of sugar, one pound 
two ounces of butter, one and one-half pints whites 
of eggs, one and one-half pounds of flour, one- 
eighth of an ounce of soda, one-quarter of an 
ounce of cream of tartar, flavor rose and almond. 

Bake same as Pound Cake. 

241.— LADY CAKES NO. 4. 

Two pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds 
of white butter, two pounds of flour, four ounces 
of cornstarch, one quart of whites of eggs, half a 
teaspoon of baking powder, flavor rose and al- 
mond. 

Cream sugar and butter with half of the whites, 
and mix with the flour; then draw in the other 
whites beaten to a firm froth. Mix them in well. 
Bake in medium heat of 250 to 300 degrees 
Fahrenheit. 

242.— SILVER CAKE. 

One pound four ounces of sugar, twelve ounces 
of butter, three-quarters of a pint of whites of 
eggs, three-quarters of a pint of milk, one and 
one-half pounds of flour, one ounce of baking 
powder. 

Cream same as for Pound Cake. Sift the 
powder in the flour and mix like New York Pound 
Cake (No. 228). Bake in 300 to 350 degrees Fahr- 
enheit. 

This mixture may be used for Loaf, Marble or 
Layer cakes. 

243.— SILVER CAKE NO. '2. 

One aud one-half pounds of sugar, one pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pint of whites of 
eggs, three-quarters of a pint of milk, two potmds 
of flour, a half ounce of baking powder. Add 
flavor and mix like No. 242. 

w 

SPONGE CAKES. 

244.— BUTTER SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, sixteen eggs, one pound of 
flour, four ounces of butter, vanilla flavor. 

Beat sugar and eggs on a slow fire till light and 
foamy; but do not let it get hot, not more than 
blood warm. Take off the fire and beat till culd; 
add the flavor, and mix in the well sifted flour. 
When the flour is in, add the melted butter HOT. 
Fill into molds and bake. 

These cakes are best baked in wooden frameSi 
as generally used for large square cakes, or in 
rings. Take the frames and rub lightly with 
butter or lard and dust vrith powdered sugar. 
Put a sheet of paper on the pan, dust also and set 
on the frame. Fill in the mixture and bake ia a 
medium heat. 



30 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

245._BUTTER SPONGE CAKE NO. 2. The cakes are best baked in the round pans 

Sixteen eggs, ten yolks, ona pound o£ flour, one with a wide center tube, 
pound of sugar, four ounces of butter, vanilla. The molds are not lined with paper or greased 

Mix same as No. 244. like for other cakes. On the contrary, they 

246.-BUTTER SPONGE CAKE NO. 3. should be dry and free from grease, so the cake 

One pound of sugar, sixteen eggs, ons pouod of sticks to the molds when baked, 
flour, eight ounces of butter, vanilla. Bake the cake in a medium heat of 3«. degrees 

Separate the eggs, beat the whites firm, then Fahrenheit. When done turn upside down and 

add the sugar gradually, beating all the time. 5=' cool. This prevents the cake from shrinking 

Add the flavor and stir in the yolks. Add the and keeps it light. When cold loosen the cake 

flour; mix it in half and add the melted butter a~"°d the edge, knock the pan on the table and 

hot. and finish mixing. Bake same as No. 244 m *^^ '=^''= ^^""^"^ ^'°P °"'- ^'""^^ °^ ""^ ^'°^ 

layers or in one loaf. crumbs and ice with vanilla. 

^^»,«^^T, ^^^^^^-r, r, . r^y^ Ftom the Angel Cake mixture is made a variety 

247. — GENOISE SPONGE CAKE. , , „ j . „ -.r- , .. -o 

.=4/.— <jjci^v..itjiic.i>^ v.*-v. of fancy flavored, cakes, as Rose, Violet, Pis- 

Stxteen whole eggs, six yolks, one pound of ^ , . „, , _ , „.„ „„;„„ *!,„ 

, « i I tachio. Strawberry, Raspberry, etc., using the 

sugar, twelve ounces of flour, four ounces of com- , , . . 

^/ .,, ,,.,', .j.ji proper colors and icings, 

stwch. eight ounces of butter, the grated nnd of ^^_ ^ ^^^ ^j ^^.^^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^5^^^ 

one lemon. Make same as No. 244. ^^^^^^^^ p„^„j3 „j 3„g„_ ^ig^teen ounces ot 

248.— PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. £Q„y_ j^j, ounces of cornstarch, a half ounce of 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, twelve cream of tartar. 

eggs, flavor. No. 2. One quart of whites, one and one- 
Beat sugar and eggs together sUghtly warm and quarter pounds of sugar, eight ounces of flour, 

then cold. eight ounces of cornstarch, a half ounce of cream 

Mis and bake same as No. 244. qj tartar. 

249.— PLAIN SPONGE CAKE NO. 2. No. 3. One quart of whites, two pounds of 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one sugar, fourteen ounces of flour, two ounces of 

pint of eggs, a half pint of yolks, lemon or vanilla cornstarch, a half ounce of cream of tartar. 

flavor. No. 4. One quart of whites, two pounds ot 

Mix same as No. 244. Bake in medium beat sugar, twelve ounces of flour, two oimses of com- 

300 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. starch, a half ounce of cream of tartar. 

250. SPONGE CAKE. No. 5. One quart of whites, one pound of so- 

LADYFINGER MIXTURE. gar, fourteen ounces of flour, two ounces of core- 
One pound of sugar, eighteen ^;gs. ona pooad starch, a half ounce of cream of tartar. 

one ounce of flour, vanilla flavor. Mix the Soar, starch, sugar and cream a£ i»> 

Separate the eggs; stir the yolks and sttgar tmr well together', sifting it three or fonr times. 

light. Keep one ounce of ths sugar oat. Beat Beat ihs whites firm same as for meringue. Add 

the whites firm and beat ia the sugar, then stir ia a handful of the mixed sugar and flour aod beai 

the flavor and yolks and mis in the flour lightly jt in with the flavor; then add the flour aod sogar; 

but fully. mix and fill into the mold, and bake. 
Other mixtures with tbe same asaonnt of flour Mixture No. 4 is a very light mixture— the C&ii 

and sugar are made with from ten to sixteen egefi original angel food. The whites shcald aot bs 

to the pound. The "ten eggs" mixture is used beaten up fully for this one mixture, only tiSl th» 

for cheaper bakery goods; but more eggs make a. eggs stand up on the beater. 

better ladyfinger and raise them rap high and xhe others are standard mixtures, geaerally 

smooth in baking. used. 
Bake in about 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 252. — SUNSHINE CAKE. 

2ej_ ANGEL CAKE. Make the mixture as for the Angel Cakes above, 

Angel Cake or Angel Food is a coiisia of ths °^^y a^* ^™*" ^'"'^^^ '° twenty-four yolks to the 

sponge cake made from ths whites of eggs only ""^^^^^ °^ egg^ ^^^ '•»»y *'« ''ea**" ^^) b«*»e 

The quality differes according to how much more "^^ flour. Flavor lemon or vanilla. Bake to 

or less flour is used in the mixture. The corn- niedium heat. 

starch is added to make the cake eat short; the 253. — FRUIT CAKES. 

cream of tartar to whiten the mixture. [Ifthelat- The frait cakss are divided into hesvy and 

ter is left out the cakes gat a dull dark color like light cakes. 

as if a very dark flour has bean used; and the The black fruit cake and the English wedding 

cake feels dry and tough]. cakes contain the most fruit. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 31 

Some bakers add burned sugar to the cake or CHRISTMAS CAKES are iced with the almond 
brown flour to darken the mixture; but this cus- paste while warm, right after they are baked; and 
tom is detrimental to the good flavor of the cakes, when the paste is dry, a coat of Royal or Fondant 

The heavy cakes should be baked at a low Icing is pat over the almond icing and then deco- 
temperature of about zoo degrees Fahrenheit, and rated. 

made about two and one-half inches thick. A Another way is to put the Almond Pasta sa 
cake of this thickness, about a foot square will with bag and star tube, put it back in the oven 
bake in two and oae-half to three hours' time, and brown it lightly in a quick heat, instead of 
The pans should have a double lining of strong using two coats, and decorate with French frait. 
paper, well buttered, to praveot too much color in zqS.^FRENCH FRUIT CAKE. 

baking. j Ij, Gutter iX lbs. flour i lb. sugar 

254. — AMERICAN FRUIT CAKE. ^ pinch baking powder lo eggs orange flavor 

3 lbs. sugar 4 lbs. currants i oz. allspice One and one-half pounds of French fruits 

3 lbs. butter 2 lbs. seeded raisins i oz. cinnamon gUces, cut in dice, consisting of cherries, apri- 
3 lbs. flour 2 lbs. Sultanas }i oz. ginger gotg^ angelica, orange, or pomegranate. 

16 eggs 12 oz. citron }i oz. cloves mi^ Hke other fruit cakes. 

}i pt.molasses ^ oz. mace 2S9.-FRENCH FRUIT CAKE NO. 2. 

1^ pt.brandy 4 oz. orange peel 2 oz. lemon peel ^^ ,^^ ^ ,1, p^^„^^ ^.^^ ^j^^ 

Soak the prepared f ruit mixed with the spices ^ j^ ^^4,^^ ^ jj, Ranched & sliced almonds 

m the brandy and molasses over night. Before ^^ ^^.^^^ ^^ ,^ ,^ ^„1,^^ 

using, cream butter, sugar and eggs the same ^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^ soft preserved orange peei 

way as for Pound Cakes. Mix in the flour, and ,/ u 1 • j j/ _ « 1..^-. 

, ' „ . , , . ' X oz- baking powder K oz. cream of tartar 

when half mixed add the fruit; finish and bake as _, 

,, , Flavor orange 

cirfictGo. 

' Ice both cakes with almond or fondant, tna 

255-— ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. fondant colored pink and flavored maraschino. 

2 lbs. sugar 3 lbs. currants Decorate the center with a basket of French fruiU 

2}4 lbs. butter 2 lbs. Sultana raisins gnd a border of angelica and cherries. 

2}i lbs. flour I'A lbs. citron 260.-CURRANT CAKE, 

I qt. eggs 1 lb. orange and lemon peel CITRON CAKE or 

I lb. chopped almonds I grated nutmeg RAISIN CAKE 

}i pt. brandy or rum i oz. mixed spices. ^^^ ^^^^^ ^j ^^g^,_ ^^^ p^^^^' ^j j^^^^^^^ ^ 

Prepare just like No. 254. „,„^^,„^ eggs, one pound four ounces of flour. 

Both mixtures may be used for WEDDING ^^^ ^^^ p^^^j ^ake and add from one to two 
CAKES. For this purpose they should be baked ^^^^^ ^j ^^^ ^^^^ „^^^^ ^^.^^ pj^^„^ j^^^ 

la tm hoops of a convenient size. , _ 

ana mace. 
Pans generally used for the fruit cake have 

slanting sides. If baked in straight sided hoops 



261.— MADISON FRUIT CAKE. 



Mix like other fruit cakes. 



less trimming is required, and the decorated cake ^ne and one-half pounds of sugar, one pound of 

looks hettT butter, twelve eggs, a half pint of cream, two 

2s6 -^CHRISTMAS CAKE pounds of flour, one grated nutmeg, onepoundot 

BLACK CAKE currants, one pound cf seeded raisins, a half 

1 lb. sugar 4 lbs. currants }i oz. cloves P°^°^ °^ f^l°°-_ 
I lb. butter 2^ lbs. raisins, seeded }i oz. ginger 

1 lb. flour 1 lb. citron i oz. allspice 262.-CHEAP RAISIN AND CURRANT CAKES 
10 eggs }i lb. orange peel i oz. cinnamon Two pounds of sugar, one and one-quartet 
}i pt. brandy X P*- W^ck molasses pounds of butter, one and one-half pints of eggs, 

Lemon and almond flavor one and one-half pints of milk, three pounds of 

Mix like the fruit cake No. 254. 0°"^. three-quarters of an ounce of baking 

257.— ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAKE. powder, flavor mace and lemon. 

2 lbs. butter 2/2 lbs. sultanas ^'^^ ^^^ No. 229. Add the fruit when the 
2X lbs. sugar i}i lbs. corrants ^"""^ »= '^=" ""'"^^ in and finish mixing. Saks 
2X lbs. flour iX ibs. mixed peel a''""' 35° degrees Fahrenheit, in smaU pooncl 
X qt. eggs y^ oz. ground mace ''°s. or in large slab cake. 

}i lb. blanched and chopped almonds 263.— BLACK MOLASSES FRUIT CAKES. 

X pt. rum or brandy CHEAP. 

Mix like other fruit cakes. One-half pound of sugar, one quart of maiasses. 

Many of the English FRUIT, BRIDES and one quart of milk, a half ounce of soda, oca ;^a3l£ 



32 



PAOL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



of lard, five pounds of flour, four eggs, two 
ounces of mixed spices, four pounds of currants, 
two pounds of raisins, a half pound of citron. 

Cream sugar, spices and lard; add molasses; 
milk with the soda dissolved; add the flour and 
beat in the eggs; last, mix in the fruit. Bake like 
the other fruit cakes. 

264.— WHITE FRUIT CAKES. 

Add to No. 240 three pounds of mixed fruit, 
consisting of two pounds of sultanas, a half pound 
of blanched and shredded almonds, a half pound 
of citron and orange peel; also add four ounces 
more flour. 

'Mix and bake as usual. 

With other fruit the same mixture can be made 
into FIG, DATE, PLAIN RAISIN, or SUL- 
TANA CURRANT CAKES, etc. 
265— NUT CAKES. 

From the pound and white cake mixtures a 
variety of Nut Cakes may be made with the 
difierent kinds of nut meats. 

The best way to bake these cakes is to bake 
them in the small round, oval or square tins 
which hold from eight ounces to one pound. The 
Angel Cake molds may also be used to advantage. 

By using the diffsrent nuts you get 

WALNUT CAKE, 

PECAN CAKE, 

BRAZILIAN CAKE, 

PEANUT CAKE, 

FILBERT CAKE and 

PISTACHIO CAKE. 

Other combinations of this kind are madS of 
mixed nuts and almonds; nuts and sultanas, 
nuts and orange peel, or nuts and French 
cherries, etc. 

Use either of the mixtures; flavor with lemon, 
orange or vanilla, or vanilla with a drop of bitter 
almond. 

Use about one ounce or more of the chopped 
nut meat to one pound of cake batter, and when 
the cakes are baked, ice fully and sprinkle with 
chopped nuts before the icing gets dry; or ice and 
sprinkle the sides with chopped nuts, and use 
some half walnuts or other kinds, or split almonds 
to decorate the top. 

For less expensive cake put only a broad strip 
of icing in the center and decorate with a few 
half nuts. 

Chocolate, caramel and vanilla, also nut-flavored 
icings are the most suitable for Nut Cake. 

With different shapes of tins, various icing and 
mixtures you can evolve many more cakes of this 
kind. 

A nice cake deserves a nice name and sells bet- 
ter, so you may call your cake Princess or Vic- 
toria or Duchess Nat Cake, etc. 



266— MARBLE CAKES. 

Take white cake mixtures No. 242 or No. 243; 
color one-fourth part pink, and one-fourth part 
chocolate; put a thin layer of the white mixture 
on the bottom; put the other two colors in turns 
in the center; finish the top with a thin layer of 
white cake and bake. 

Ice with a soft water icing; color a little of the 
icing pink and chocolate, put each in a paper 
cornet and draw straight lines in alternate colors 
across the soft white icing, then draw the knife 
in straight lines or in ziz-zag across the colored 
strips while the icing is soft. 

267.— DOMINO CAKES. 
Bake two sheets of cake of any suitable mix- 
ture and fill with jelly, jam or cream. Prepare 
two icings — a white and a chocolate. Ice one 
part white, one part chocolate. Cut the iced cake 
in long strips, about two inches wide, while the 
icing is soft. Draw a line along the center of 
each strip in reverse color, then cut the strip in 
one-inch slices and make the dots to imitate 
dominoes. 

268.— LAYER CAKE, YELLOW, NO. i. 
I qt. of eggs 3 lbs. of sugar iji Ibs.of butter 

1 qt. of milk 4^ lbs. of flour i oz. of soda 

2 ozs. of cream of tartar Lemon or vanilla flavor 

269.— LAYER CAKE, YELLOW, NO. 2. 
2 lbs. of sugar i lb. of butter 20 eggs 

1 pt. of milk 3 lbs. o£ flour 

2 ozs. of baking powder Lemon and mace flavor 

270.— LAYER CAKE, YELLOW, NO. 3. 
2 lbs. of sugar i lb. of butter and lard 
X pt. of eggs I qt. of milk 3 Ibs.of flour 

lyi ozs. of baking powder Flavor 

271.— LAYER CAKE, YELLOW, NO. 4. 
I lb. of sugar i lb. of butter and lard 

^ pt. of eggs 1% pts. of milk 2 lbs of flour 

1% ozs. of baking powder Flavor 

272.— LAYER CAKE, YELLOW, NO. 5. 
2% Ibs.of sugar % lb. of butter 8 eggs 
lYz pts. of milk 2% lbs. of flour Flavor 
lyi ozs. of baking powder 

273.— WHITE MIXTURES NO. i 
I lb. sugar ^ lb. butter % pt. milk 

1% lb. flour % pt. whites of eggs 
I oz. baking powder Vanilla flavor 

274.— WHITE MIXTURE NO. 2. 
}i lbs. sugar i pt. milk 2 lbs. flour 

iX lb. butter and lard % pt. whites of eggs 

1% ozs. baking powder Flavor vanilla 
275.— NOTES ON LAYER CAKES. 
The mixtures from No. 266 to No. 274 are 
standard Layer Cake receiptsof different quality, 
as generally used for white and yellow layers. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



33 



They are prepared like the other cakes which 
contain milk, 

A baking temperature of 350 degrees, and for 
the plainest mixtures 400 degrees Fahrenheit, is 
the most suitable for these cakes. 

For the best and richest kind of these cakes 
the Butter, Sponge, Genoise and Pound Cake 
mixtures are used by caterers; and other special 
mixtures are made as occasion demands. 

All the fillings given from No. iii to No. 129, 
several of the tart fillings, and also the icings 
may be used for the Layer Cakes. 

The fruit jellies and jams make another variety 
of fillings. 

The Nut Cake recipes and suggestions, as given 
in No. 265, can be made into Layers and iced as 
suggested. 

The Layer Cakes are made in two or three lay- 
ers. When they are baked and cool, the filling 
is put between, pressed together, trimmed straight, 
and iced on top and sides. 

The jelly cakes are often sprinkled thickly with 
cocoanut, which makes the use of a thin icing 
possible and looks nice. 

Some caterers use the square pound cake, and 
split it in two or ihree layers, put filling between 
and ice. This makes very attractive Layer Cakes 
which are given special names. The cakes are 
named either after the flavors they contain, or 
are named after prominent persons or localities. 

In many of the best cakes a double icing is 
used. Either a firm fruit jam, or almond paste 
icing is put on and followed with another coat of 
Royal or Fondant. The English method of icing 
Loaf and Layer Cake in this manner, is to take a 
thin almond paste or macaroon mixture, spread 
it over the cake, sprinkle or dip in shredded 
almonds or nuts, and put the cake into the oven 
for a minute to get a nice color; or, take a firmer 
paste which keeps its shape and put it on with 
bag and star tube in a decorative way; or, spread 
the paste over plain, and take a fork and make it 
rough looking, then put the cake in the oven to 
color. When cold the cake is finished with 
fondant or royal icing, or decorated with French 
fruits glaces. 

The Layer Cakes are also baked in large sheets, 
two layers put together with filling and iced in 
one whole sheet; or, cut up in small squares or 
diamonds before icing and dipped in the icing like 
cream candies; or, set nearly touching each other 
on a wire grate and the icing poured over. The 
icing used may be a soft royal icing or a fondant 
icing. 

To make the small cakes attractive, prepare a 
batch of white icing and divide it into four or 
five parts; color one part pink, flavor rose or 



maraschino; one part yellow, flavor orange; one 
part chocolate; one part pale green, flavor pista- 
chio; and leave one part white. Dip the cakes 
in the different colors, and, before the icing be- 
comes dry, put a slice of frnit glace, and half an 
almond, walnut or hickory nut on each piece; or, 
a dot of icing of reverse colors. 

Another form of decorating is to use ornament- 
ing icing in different colors, and with a cornet, 
pipe on patterns of any description, setting it off 
with dots or bright fruit jelly. 

Another way is to prepare tiny flowers and 
stars beforehand from royal icing; or, buy small 
berry candies, dragees, etc., of different colors 
and drop them on the small cakes as soon as 
they are iced. 

The colored sugars may also be used in these 
cakes. 

Many bakers utilize stale cakes in this manner 
without any filling, only they use different colored 
icing and sprinkle the cake with chopped nuts. 
The plainer kinds are called Nougatinas. The 
others, made from black fruit cakes or ginger 
bread, are generally iced chocolate, and are 
called Negritos, or Negro Nougatinas. Of course 
there are many other ways of decorating and a 
skillful inventive workman can devise thousands 

of them to make the cake look attractive. 

* 

LARGE TART CAKES. 
276.— ORANGE TOURTE. 
Bake from the Genoise Mixture No. 247, three 
even layers in large rings and let cool. Make the 
Orange Filling No. 118, and when cool spread on 
two of the layers. On top of each layer of cream 
put a layer of thin slices of oranges from which 
the seeds and the white pith has been removed. 
Place together with the third layer on top. Ice 
with orange fondant icing and decorate with slices 
of orange which have been split in its natural 
quarters and dipped in caramel sugar; or decorate 
with fruit glace, or with both oranges and fruits. 

277.— VIENNA TOURTE A LA CREME. 

Bake three thin bottoms from Mixture No. 83 
or No. 84; or make a special mixture like this: 

Rub twelve ounces of sugar very light with 
seven yolks, and mix with twelve ounces of starch 
and two ounces of melted butter, and bake this 
to very thin crisp bottoms. 

Fill with the Vienna Cream No. 122. Ice with 
chocolate or maraschino and decorate with halves 
of walnuts dipped in caramel and fruit glace. 

278.— VIENNA ALMOND TOURTE. 

To the Mixture No. 244 or No. 247 add four 

ounces of dried and ground almonds. Bake three 

layers and fill with Almond Cream No. 114. Ice 

with Almond Paste Icing No. 215. Spread the 



34 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



icing on very smooth, put back in the oven and 
color nicely; let cool and ice with a pink fondant 
flavored maraschino, and decorate with French 
fruit in an artistic manner. 

279.— VIENNA CHOCOLATE TOURTE. 

One-half of a pound of almond paste, eight 
ounces of sugar, eight ounces of butter, four 
ounces of chocolate, twelve yolks, twelve whites, 
four ounces of flour. 

Cream sugar and butter with the yolks; add 
the almond paste rubbed smooth with four whites 
and the grated chocolate or cocoa powder; beat 
the other whites of eggs firm and draw in the 
cream with the flour. Bake in three layers and 
fill with Chocolate Nut Cream No. 112. Ice the 
center of top chocolate, and the sides with maras- 
chino fondant, and decorate with nuts and glazed 
almonds. 

280.— LINZER TOURTE. 

Roll out a bottom from paste No. 84. Put on 
a large raised edge from a strip of the same paste. 
Fill with a cherry fruit jam, or a compote of pit- 
ted cherries. From the same paste form a lattice 
of strips and cover the cherries. Bake in a med- 
ium heat, dust with sugar and serve. 

281.— GERMAN BROD TOURTE. 

Pound three-quarters of a pound of dried and 
browned almonds with six eggs and add one 
pound of powdered sugar; work in to it gradually 
twelve more yolks and add six ounces of dried and 
browned rye-bread crumbs moistened with one- 
half of a gill of rum; add four ounces of cocoa 
powder and one ounce of ground cinnamon, cloves 
and allspice mixed together; add four ounces of 
orange peel and four ounces of citron cut very 
fine. Beat the whites of the eggs firm and add to 
it the mixture with four ounces of flour. Bake in 
one large ring form in a slow oven. When baked 
and cool ice with a nice liquor — flavored icing 
and decorate with fruit. 

282.— ALLIANCE TOURTE. 

Bake three layers: one layer of the the Brod 
Tourte, one layer of the Vienna Almond Tourte, 
and one layer of the Mixture No. 248. Spread 
one layer with apricot marmalade, one layer with 
raspberry marmalade, put together, spread with 
an almond icing and put in the oven to dry. Let 
cool and ice with fondant in three colors. Dec- 
orate with royal icing and fruit glace. 
283.— SAND TOURTE. 

Eight ounces of butter, twelve ounces of sugar, 
eight ounces of cornstarch, four ounces of flour, 
fourteen yolks and twelve whites of eggs, the 
grated rind of one lemon, one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of mace. 

Cream butter and sugar and add the yolks grad- 
ually with a spoonful of starch and flour, and work 



it into the cream together; add the flavor andlats 
the whites beaten firm. Bake in a slow heat in a 
large ring form. Ice with a maraschino fondant 
and decorate nicely. 

284.— PUNCH TOURTE. 

Bake four thin layers from Mixture No. 247. 
Take some firm apple marmalade and mix with 
some good rum, the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon or orange, and spread it between the lay- 
ers. Ice with a punch-flavored fondant and deco- 
rate with royal icing and fruit. 

285.— TOURTE A LA ROYALE. 

Bake two thin bottoms from the Vienna AlmonU 
Tourte No. 278; and bake another bottom from 
the Meringue Paste No. 94 or No. 95. Spread one 
of the first bottoms with an apricot marmalade. 
Place on top of this the meringue layer. Place 
on the meringue a layer of wine cream (made 
after the formula No. 118 without the orange 
flavor) and cover with the other layer. Ice with 
lemon fondant and decorate with royal icing. 
286.— MERINGUE TOURTE. 

Bake a bottom with raised edge from No. 83 or 
No. 84. Spread with raspberry jam. Take 
Meringue No. 93 and with bag and tube put on a 
a border and network, dust with sugar and color 
nicely in the oven. 

287.— FRENCH TOURTE A LA CREME. 

Roll out a bottom from Paste No. 75 or No. 76. 
Put on a border from the same paste. Fill the 
center with an almond paste cream. Wash over 
the rim with egg wash and bake to a nice color. 
Serve plain, dusted with sugar, or decorate with 
meringue. 

Another variety of large Tourtes is made simi- 
lar to the Cream Pies given in former chapters. 
The bottoms are made from Puff paste. Short 
paste, and from the Sponge and Genoise cake 
mixtures. From the puff pastes, the bottoms are 
baked as described in Nos. 131 and 132, and filled 
with the creams. Other bottoms are made from 
pastes Nos. 82 to 84 with a raised edge of the same 
paste. The creams are filled in while warm, the 
same as for the Cream Pies. 

288.— TOURTE A LA CREME DE VANILLE. 

Bake a bottom or a case as indicated above, 
and fill with the cream made as follows: 

Take one quart of plain cream, eight ounces of 
sugar, twelve yolks and four whole eggs, vanilla 
flavor. 

Beat the sugar and eggs well together; let the 
cream come near the boiling point and stir it into 
the eggs; put back on the fire and stir till it 
thickens; take off at once, flavor and strain and 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



fill into the baked bottoms; let cool and serve. To 
this creme may be added chocolate, or the grated 
rind of oranges or lemons, nut or browned al- 
monds, and this would give your Creme an 
Chocolat, Creme d'Oranges, Creme de Nois- 
ettes, etc. The same creme made from wine in- 
stead of cream, flavored with spice and lemon o.' 
orange rind makes another variety of Wine Cream 
Tourtes. 

Other tourtes of this class are made from fresh 
fruits, which should be very ripe, such as straw- 
berries, raspberries and ripe soft peaches. Pre- 
pare and bake the bottoms same as for the Creme 
Tourtes. 

Beat up firm one quart of double cream and 
put it on a sieve to drain. Sweeten two quarts 
of crushed fruit and stir it cold till it forms a rich 
jam. Mix in this two-thirds of the drained cream 
and fill into the baked bottom. Fill the rest of 
the whipped cream into a bag and decorate the 
tourte with it in lattice fashion. 

Some of these large Tart Cakes can be baked 
in sheet form and cut in squares. They may also 
be baked in the smaller layer cake tins, but should 
sell for abetter price to leave a reasonable profit 
for the maker. They are best suited for a high- 
class catering trade and for hotels. 

289.— QUEEN CAKES, 
z lb. of sugar i lb. of butter 12 eggs 

X pt. of cream 1^ oz. of cornstarch 

X oz. baking powder 4 oz. chopped almonds 

4 oz. chopped citron 
Mix like pound cake and add the peel and al- 
monds. Roll out a thin sheet of paste No. 82; 
place on a baking sheet; grease high muffin rings 
and set close together on the paste; fill the rings 
half with the mixture and bake in medium heat. 
Ice vanilla. 

290.— CUP CAKES No. I. 
Jf lb. sugar ^ lb. butter 8 eggs 

^ pt. milk I lb. flour ^ oz. baking powder 

Vanilla flavor 

291.— CUP CAKES No. 2. 
rX lb. sugar X '^ butter and lard 

1 pt milk 8 eggs 2^ lbs. of flour 

l^ oz. baking powder Extract of lemon 

292.— CUP CAKES No. 3. 
3 lbs. sugar i lb. butter 10 eggs 

I qt. milk 4X lbs. flour i oz. of soda 

a ozs. cream of tartar Flavor mace and lemon 
The New York Pound and Wine cake mixtures 
may also be used for Cup Cakes. Mix in the 
same manner and work the mixture a little tough 
after the flour is added. Bake in greased and 
dusted cup cake moulds; sprinkle with a few cur- 



rants or seme chopped almonds and bake in a 
good heat of 400 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit. Ice 
and sprinkle with cocoanut, or leave plain. 

293.— DROP CAKE No. x. 
1% lb. sugar i lb. butter 1% pt. eggs 

I qt. milk i oz. of powdered ammonia 

3 lbs. of flour The grated rind of two lemons 

294.— DROP CAKE No. 2. 
i^ lb. sugar 10 ozs. of butter 8 eggs 

I pt. milk 2% lbs. flour 

}i oz. ammonia X °^ of soda Lemon extract 
Mix same as for Cup Cake and drop on greased 
and dusted pans; sprinkle a few currants on top 
and bake in a good heat. 

295.— HONEY CAKE. 

Take half New Orleans molasses and half honey 
and let it come to a boil; skim well, throw a little 
cold water in it, let it boil up and skim again, 
then take off the fire. Let ccol till you can hold 
your hand in it, then work in enough soft flour 
to make a medium dough. 

In Germany it is customary to make this dough 
several months before it is used, because it im- 
proves with age. 

Take from this stock dough, and into five 
pounds of it work one-half ounce of soda, or one- 
fourth ounce of ammonia dissolved in a little 
water, and a tablespoonful of mixed spice. Add 
one-half pound of chopped almonds, one half 
pound of citron and some lemon extract, and 
work it all well together. 

Before baking the whole batch it is best to 
make a test with one small cake, because the dif- 
ference in the acidity of the honey and molasses 
requires this test, to be certain in the result. 

If the cakes are too light, work more stock 
dough into it; if too heavy, add more soda or 
ammonia 

Make into single cakes; or, roll out a sheet as 
large as the pan, grease and dust the pan with 
flour, put on the dough about one-third inch thick 
and bake in a medium heat. 

Make a boiled icing like No. 206, very thin, 
grain it on the side of the pan till it gets white 
and brush the cake over with it. Let dry and 
cut the cake in small pieces. Other cakes are 
made smaller shapes in square and heart forms; 
also figures of men and animals are cut from 
the paste, decorated with icing of different colors. 

Other decorations are executed with blanched 
almonds and slices of citron, and the cakes are 
iced with a gloss of gum water while warm. 

The cheapest grades of these cakes are made 
from molasses and brown sugar in the same man- 
ner as given above. 



36 

2g6— BEST HONEY CAKE. 

2 lbs. honey i3^ lb. brown sugar X P'- water 
X oz. soda i}i lb. shredded almonds 
}i oz. cloves, mace, cinnamon and nutmeg 

3 lbs. flour, the grated rinds of two lemons 

}4 lb. of orange and citron peel cut fine. 
Boil sugar, honey and water; take off and let 
cool till blood warm; mix in the flour, spices and 
the soda dissolved; then add the almonds 
and peel. Let stand for a couple of days to 
ripen; cut out in small cakes, put on dusted pans 
and bake in medium heat. Ice with transparent 
icing No. 206. 

297— NUREMBERG LECKERLY. 
i}i lb of blanched and shredded almonds roasted 
light brown The grated rind of one lemon 

15 eggs i}4 lb. of sugar i lb. 4 oz. of flour 
^ lb. of orange and citron peel chopped fine. 

Rub the sugar and yokes light; beat the whites 
firm, and mix together; add the almond, peel and 
lemon rind and draw in the flour. Spread the 
mixture on wafer paper, cut in oblongs, put a thin 
slice of citron in the centre, dust with sugar and 
place on dusted and greased pans in medium heat. 

The same mixture can be made into CHOCO- 
LATE LECKERLETS by leaving out the peel, 
and adding four ounces of cocoa powder. 

298— GINGERBREAD. 

2j^ pts. molasses i qt. water J^ lb. sugar 

J^ lb. lard i oz. ground ginger i oz. mixed spices 

}4 pt- of eggs 2 ozs. of soda 4 lbs. of flour 

A little salt. 

299— SOUTHERN GINGERBREAD. 
I lb. of sugar i lb. of lard i qt. of molasses 
T pt. of milk I oz. of soda i oz. of ginger 
1^ oz. of mace J^ oz. allspice 8 eggs 
3 lbs. of flour. 

300— CURRANT GINGERBREAD. 
I qt. of molasses i qt. of milk i lb. of lard 
X lb. of crumbs 4 lbs. of flour i lb. currants 
i}4 oz. of soda I oz. of ginger 2 eggs 

I oz. mixed spices. 
Cream sugar and lard; add spices, molasses, the 
soda dissolved in water or milk, and the flour, and 
beat in the eggs. Bake in greased and dusted pans 
(or in pans lined with paper), in a medium heat. 
Be careful not to move the cake while it is baking. 

301— SPICE CAKES No. i. 
i^ lbs. crumbs i}4 lbs. flour ^ lb. sugar 

4 ozs. lard i pt. molasses 8 eggs 

I teaspoon soda 4 ozs. currants 
4 ozs. citron and orange peel i oz. mixed spice 
milk or water to mix. 



PAUL EICfiARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

302— SPICE CAKE No. 2. 

3 lbs. crumbs i lb. flour 2 ozs. lard 

I qt. molasses J^ teaspoon soda 6 eggs 

8 ozs. citron and orange peel 4 ozs. currants 

Mix with a little water. 

303— SPICE CAKE No. 3. 

I qt. molasses i qt. water i lb. sugar 
I lb. lard 2 ozs. soda i oz. mixed spices 

5 eggs 3 lbs. crumbs 3 lbs. flour 

4 ozs. currants 4 ozs. chopped peel 

Rub the crumbs through a coarse sieve. Dis- 
solve the soda in water. Cream sugar and lard; 
add molasses, spices, water and soda, and mix in 
the crumbs and flour. Add more water if re- 
quired to make a soft mixture. Bake in well- 
greased muffin cups. When done ice chocolate, 
white or pink. 

304— JELLY ROLL. 
The mixtures from Nos. 244 to 250 make the 
bsst Jelly Roll mixtures, if baked in sheets on 
paper and rolled warm. I give here a couple of 
commercial receipts, less expensive and quickly 
made: 

JELLY ROLL No. i. 

I lb. of sugar i lb. of flour 12 eggs 

I oz. baking powder vanilla flavor 

JELLY ROLL No. :,:, 

I lb. of sugar iX lb. flour i oz. baking powder 

5 eggs i^ pint milk 

Sift the baking powder in the flour; beat the 
sugar and eggs together, and add the flavor and 
flour. 

For the second mixture, add the flour, and mix 
the milk afterwards, 

Spread the mixture with the palette knife on the 
paper very thin, and bake in 400 to 450 degrees 
Fahrenheit. When done, turn at once over on a 
paper dusted with sugar; the paper side up. Wet 
the paper, remove it quickly and spread the cake 
over with a soft preserve or jelly, and roll up. 
Roll it up tight, so it keeps its shape in the paper. 

A better mixture is made with sixteen eggs to 
the pound of flour and sugar; beaten up like No. 
244, warm and cold, and made and rolled as de- 
scribed above. 

Lately the large bakeries and caterers are mak- 
ing a variety of fancy rolls in this manner. In 
place of using a plain jelly or jam, the cream 
fillings and cream icings are used, and the rolls 
are iced with almond and cream icings and rolled 
in chopped nuts, which makes a very rich looking 
roll. If the creams are used as given in the chapter 
of Fillings, you can make Vanilla Cream Roll, 
Chocolate Cream Roll, Nut Cream Roll, etc. 



PAUL Richards' book of breads, cakes, pastries, ices and sweetmeats. 
Fill the roll with the creams, and ice when cold are the best 



37 



with chocolate, vanilla, or caramel icing; or 
spread with a light jam or jelly, and roll in cocoa- 
nut; or fill with nut or almond cream, or icing; 
spread the outside with a thin almond icing and 
roll in chopped nuts. 

Use Cream No. 157 for the Floradora Cream 
Roll. 

Another variety of these rolls are made with 
two colors; one part of the mixture is colored 
pink or chocolate. Two thin sheets are put to- 
gether with jelly; another coat of jelly or cream 
is spread on the top, and both sheets are rolled 
up together. 

Another way is to roll one small roll of one 
color inside of another roll; the outside can be 
masked with jam, or iced with fondant or other 
icing, and decorated with fancy piping and with 
French fruits. 

These fancy rolls are sold as Swiss Roll, Paris 
Roll. Princess Roll, etc. 

305— PUNCH CAKE. 

Take some left-over sponge, pound or white 
cakes, and cut up in half-inch dice. Make a thin 
syrup with one pint of water and one pound of 
granulated sugar, add the juice and grated rind of 
one orange or lemon and a glass of good rum. 
Moisten the cake with this syrup and mix to- 
gether. 

Line a square pan with a thin sheet of tsponge 
cake on bottom and sides; spread with jam or 
jelly and put in the moistened cake. Take another 
thin sheet of sponge cake, spread with jelly, and 
put with the jelly inside on top of the moistened 
cake. Press well together, put another heavy 
pan on top, with a weight to press down, and let 
stand for some time to make it firm; then turn 
the pan upside down on a board and ice with a 
punch icing, flavored rum and lemon. 

306— HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

This cake is made in the same manner as the 
Punch Cake, using cakes of different colors, pink, 
white, dark and yellow, cut in dice and mixed 
with a fruit syrup, or with diluted jelly, and fill 
into a pan lined same as for Punch Cake. Ice in 
different colors same as in No. 266. These cakes 
are very useful to dispose of left-over cakes. 

Another cake of this kind can be made, using 
crumbs. Mix with a few chopped nuts and 
raisins, add a good flavor of spices, and moisten 
with syrup or wine sauce, and finish same way as 
for Punch or Harlequin Cake. 

307— NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 
For this cake you require four different kinds 
of cake. A solid Pound and Lady Cake mixture 



Color one part chocolate, one part 
pink, leave one part white and one part yellow. 
Cut the cake in one-inch square strips, and jam 
the pieces together, placing a thin two-inch strip 
of sponge cake on the bottom and top. Mask the 
square with Almond Icing No. 216, and put in the 
oven to color lightly. Let cool and ice in three 
colors with fondant or water icing. 

308— DEVIL'S CAKE. 

Bake three layers from mixture No. 279, or 
from plain Chocolate or Spice Cake mixtures. 
Spread with chocolate filling, and ice with a very 
dark chocolate icing. 

309— BOSTON CREAM PUFFS. 
ECLAIRS. 

Make the mixture No. 102 or 103. Lay out 
with bag and plain tube in the size of large drops 
on greased and dusted pans; brush over with eggs 
and bake in 400 degrees Fahrenheit. When done 
cat on the sides and fill with pastry cream. 

The puffs may also be filled with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. Cut out a round piece 
from the top and fill with cream. Dress the 
Eclairs on the pans in finger shape; let stand for 
a while before baking, and bake in a slower heat 
than the puffs; fill with cream and ice with choco- 
late, vanilla, etc., etc. 

310— LADYFINGERS. 

SAVOY BISCUIT. 

BISCUIT CUILLIERE. 
Prepare mixture No. 250 or 249, and with bag 
and tube lay out fingers on paper. Sift over with 
powdered sugar. Shake off the surplus sugar; 
put the paper on pans and bake in 400 degrees 
Fahrenheit. Let cool and take off the fingers, 
wetting the paper on the underside, and stick two 
together. 

311— SMALL FANCY CAKES FROM SPONGE 
MIXTURES. 
A variety of small cakes can be made from the 
sponge mixtures; making plain drops and sprinkle 
with nuts and almonds. Spread the bottom with 
jelly when baked and stick two together; or, make 
drops in bean shape, put two together with almond 
paste and ice with chocolate, white, yellow, pink 
or light green. Other drops are scooped out and 
filled with cream or jam, iced and decorated like 
the other small cakes, as I have suggested in No. 

275- 

312— OTHELLOS, 

ALSO MIXTURE FOR AFRICANS AND DESDBMONAS. 

g ozs. of sugar 14 ozs. of flour vanilla flavor 

14 whites of eggs, 18 yolks. 

Make this mixture like No. 250. Lay out with 

bag and tube on paper, or on greased and dusted 

pans, in ij^-inch drops, and bake in 300 degrees 



PAUL RICHARD S BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



38 

Fahrenheit. When cold scoop out and fill with 
pastry cream; put two together and dip in choco- 
late. 

313— DESDEMONAS. 

Fill like the OtbeUos; ice with white fondant 
or royal icing; put on pink cheeks, with carmine, 
and serve one Othello and one Desdemona to- 
gether on one plate, to represent the two star 
actors in Shakespeare's drama. 

314— AFRICANS. 
Make like the Othello's; scoop out, dip each 
half in chocolate, let dry and put two together 
filled with whipped cream. 

315— BOUCHEES DES DAMES. 
Make smaller drops and fill with nut creams or 
preserves; ice in different colors and decorate in 
the manner suggested in No. 275. 

316— EASTER EGGS. 
Lay out the cakes in half egg shape; let cool, 
scoop out and fill with lemon or orange butter, or 
apricot jam; put two together and ice in different 
colors; decorate like Easter eggs. 

317— CHANTILLY BASKETS. 

CORBEILLK A LA CHANTILLY. 
Drop out high ovals; bake and let cool; scoop 
out the inside; ice and let dry; put on four dots 
of royal icing to form the feet of the basket; let 
dry, turn upside down on the feet; make a fancy 
border with different colored icings; fill the ceutre 
with sweetened whipped cream or pastry cream. 
The handle may be made from a strip of angelica 
or candied orange peel; or it may be made from 
royal icing, put on half around waxed tin, let dry 
and placed over the filling. 

318— SCOTCH SHORT BREADS 

MIXTURE NO. i: 

2 lbs. flour 6 ozs. rice flour ij4. lbs. butter 

}i lb. sugar. 

MIXTURE NO. 2. 

2^ lbs. flour 4 ozs. rice flour i lb. 4 ozs. butter 
4 ozs. lard 10 ozs, sugar. 

MIXTURE NO. 3: 

1 lb. flour yi lb. butter 4 ozs. sugar 

Mix flour and sugar and rub in the butter; make 
into a paste and let stand over night. Roll out 
into round pieces, pinch up a scolloped edge, 
decorate with slices of citron, and bake in a 
medium heat. 

The short breads are improved by adding the 
grated rind of lemon and some yolks or whole 
eggs. (The old original mixtures are without 
eggs and flavor.) It is also best to use a very fine 
powdered sugar to make smooth mixture. The 



cakes may be decorated with royal icing and fruit; 
but the Scotch mode is to decorate with caraway 
comfits. 

319— MILANESE CAKE, NO. i. 

2% lbs. butter z}i lbs. sugar 5 lbs. flour 

15 or i6 eggs yi oz. ammonia 

The grated rind of two lemons. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add flavor and 

work in the eggs; add the ammonia and flour; set 

on ice to harden, or make the day before using. 

Roll out into a thin sheet, cut in rings, stars, 

leaves or crescents; egg-wash and sprinkle with 

chopped almonds; bake in medium heat to a nice 

color. These cakes may be decorated before 

baking with a firm Macaroon paste, with bag and 

star tube; or iced with royal icing, decorated with 

angelica and cherries, etc. 

320— MILANESE CAKE, NO, 2. 

1 lb. flour yi lb. butter yi lb. sugar 

2 yolks 2 whole eggs 4 ozs. ground almonds 
Grated rind of i lemon 2 ozs. finely chopped peel 

Mix same as No. 319 and let cool. Roll out 
into a square sheet about }( inch thick. Cut 
with the dough wheel into two-inch strips, and 
then across in one-inch pieces, diamond shape. 
Draw a fork across and trace lines, wash with 
eggs, sprinkle with shredded almonds, and bake 
in a good heat. 

321.— NEW YEAR'S CAKE. 
I lb. powdered sugar % lb. butter 3 eggs 

Tyi oz. caraway seed % pt. milk 3 lbs. flour 
X oz. ammonia yi oz. grated nutmeg or mace. 
Rub the batter in the flour; beat eggs and 
sugar; dissoU-i the ammonia in the milk. Mix 
same as for Milanese cake No. 319 or 320, and 
make into a medium firm paste. Roll out and cut 
into squares; press into the New Year's cake 
forms, wash with egg, and bake in medium 
heat. The cakes may be made in a whole sheet 
as large as the baking pans, about one-quarter 
inch thick, rolled with the New Year's cake roller, 
washed, baked and cut while warm. 



322- 

xyi lb. sugar 
3 lbs. flour 

^yi lbs. sugar 
I oz. ammonia 



2 lbs. sugar 
I pt. milk 



-SUGAR COOKIES 

MIXTURE NO. i: 

lyi lb. butter 
yi oz. ammonia 
MIXTURE NO. 2: 
2 lbs. butter 
7 lbs. flour 
milk to mix. 

MIXTURE KO. 3: 

lyi lb. butter 

I oz. ammonia 

Flavor. 



9 eggs 
lemon flavor 

12 yolks 
lemon flavor 



8 eggs 
4^ lbs. flour 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



39 



3 lbs. sngar 
s qt. milk 



MIXTURE NO. 4. 

ji lb. lard 2 eggs 

z}i ozs. ammonia 6 lb. flour 

Flavor. 

Dissolve the ammonia in the milk; rub sugar, 
butter and eggs; add flavor and milk; add the 
flour and mix. 

The richer mixtures should rest in a cold place 
before using, and they also require less heat in 
baking. 

The cheaper mixtures should have a solid heat 
of 300 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 

From one mixture several kinds can be made 
by adding spices, currants or nuts. Roll the 
paste out into a thin sheet of about one-eighth 
inch thick, and cut up with a variety of cutters 
into rounds, loaves, etc. Wash with milk and 
eggs; turn over on granulated sugar, or on chop- 
ped nuts or almonds, and bake to a nice color. 

323— LEMON SNAPS, NO. i, 
2'/i lbs. sugar i lb. butter i pint eggs 

a}i lbs. flour % oz. ammonia lemon extract 

LEMON SNAPS, NO. 2. 
i^ lb. granulated sugar ^ lb. lard 8 eggs 
3 lbs. flour I oz. ammonia lemon extract 

A little milk to mix. 
Mix same as No 322; cut into rounds; egg wash, 
and bake in medium heat. 

324— GERMAN ALMOND STRIPS. 
I lb. sugar i lb. butter 1% lb. flour 5 eggs 
I lb. ground almonds; the grated rind of i lemon. 
Mix same as No. 319, and put on ice to harden. 
Roll out into a thin sheet; cut in strips two and 
one-half inches long, one-half inch wide. Egg 
wash and sprinkle thickly with almonds shredded 
or chopped, dust with sugar, and bake in 250 
degrees Fahrenheit. 

325— GERMAN ALMOND STRIPS.— PLAIN. 

I lb. sugar ^ lb. butter i^ lb. flour 3 eggs 

a pinch of ammonia; vanilla flavor. 

Bake same as No. 324; cut in strips and sprinkle 
with almonds. 

326— JAPANESE CAKE. 
I lb. sugar i lb. of almonds with the skins on 
I lb. flour 8 ozs. butter 8 whites of eggs 

Pound the almonds fine in the mortar and mix 
with the sugar and flour; work together with the 
butter, and add the whites of the eggs to form a 
smooth paste. Set to cool, and roll out into a 
square sheet one-eighth inch thick. Cut the 
sheet in two-inch strips, wash with eggs and 
sprinkle with almonds. Place two strips one on 
top of the other; press down along the center of 
the strip with the rolling pin, and cut the strips 



in one-inch slices. Take some soft macaroon 
paste and put into the center of each strip a dot 
of the paste. Bake in medium heat and ice with 
maraschino or rum icing. 

327— MONTIVEDEOS. 
2 lbs. brown sugar j}^ lb. butter 6 yolks 
I qt. molasses 2 ozs. soda i pt. milk 5 lbs. flour 
t}i lb. cake crumbs 4 ozs. ground almonds 

1 oz. mixed spices, the grated rind of 2 lemons. 
Cream sugar and butter and mix in the same 

way as for cookies. Roll out and cut in oblongs, 
or long ovals; set on greased and dusted pans; 
egg wash and place half a split almond in the 
center. Bake in medium heat. 

328— BOLIVARS, NO. i. 

2 lbs. brown sugar }4 lb. lard i^oz. ammonia 
I oz. mixed spices i qt. milk 4 lbs. flour 

}i oz. ground ginger. 
Mix same as for cookies; cut out with a large 
scallop cutter, wash with milk and turn in granu- 
lated sugar. Bake in a good heat. 

329— BOLIVARS, NO. 2. 
I qt. molasses i pt milk % lb. lard 2 oz. soda 
I oz. ground ginger i oz. spices 43)^ lbs. flour.: 
Mix same as No. 328. 

330— GINGER SNAPS. NO. i. 

1 lb. sugar, % lb. lard, i qt. molasses, % pt. water. 
\}i oz. soda, 4 lbs. flour, i oz. of ground ginger, 

}i oz. allspice, a pinch of salt. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 2. 
% lb. sugar, ^ lb. lard, i qt. molasses, i pt. water, 

2 oz. soda, I oz. ground ginger, ^ oz. allspice, 

4 lbs. of flour, 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 3. 
1% lb. brown sugar, i qt. N. O. molasses, }i pt. 
water, i lb. lard, i oz. soda, ^ oz. ammonia, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, i^ oz. ground ginger, 
}i oz. ammonia, ^ oz. allspice, 6 lbs. flour. 

Good weights. 
Mix sQgar, lard, molasses and spices; dissolve 
the soda and ammonia in the water, and work in 
the flour. Let stand over night, or mix early in 
the morning and use later. Work the mixture 
over before using, Wet with a damp cloth, after 
they are cut out, and bake in medium heat of 2jo 
to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. 

331— SCOTCH CAKE. 
4 lbs. sugar (half granulated and half powdered), 

2 lbs butter, 16 eggs, i pt. molasses, 6 lbs. flour, 
^ oz. ammonia dissolved in milk, i oz. g'nger, 

I oz. vanilla extract. 
Mix and bake same way as for ginger snaps. 



4° 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



332— ENGLISH MOSS CAKE. 

I lb. sugar, % lb. butter, i qt. molasses, i pt. milk, 

lyi oz. soda, % lb. citron, % lb. currants, 

^ oz. cloves, yi oz. allspice, }i oz. lemon extract, 

5 lbs. flour. 

Chop citron and currants together very fine, 
and mix the same way as for ginger snaps. Put 
away to cool over night. 

Beat three whites of eggs firm and mix with 
icing sugar to a thin icing. Roll the mixture out 
same as for snaps, spread the icing over very thin 
and cut out in cakes with a two- or three-inch 
cutter. Pat on pans and bake same way as for 
snaps in a medium heat. The icing should break 
nicely in baking to have a moss-like appearance. 

333— VANILLA CRISPS. 
z.yi lb. sugar ^ lb. butter ^ oz. ammonia 

1 pt. eggs 4 lbs. flour i lb. cornstarch 

vanilla flavor, milk to mix. 
Mix same as for cookies. Roll into a very thin 
sheet, cut with oval cutter, wash and turn on 
almonds; put on pans and bake in a medium heat. 

334— ROCK CAKES. 

2 lbs. sugar 1% lb. butter 7 eggs i pt. milk 
I oz. ammonia 4 lbs. flour lemon extract. 

Mix same as for sugar cookies; break out in 
pieces; put on pans and stamp with the rock cake 
stamp, or use a fork and press down cross wise; 
wash and bake in good heat. 

335— ENGLISH ROCK CAKE. 

1 lb. sugar, % lb. butter, 4 ozs. currants, 3 eggs, 
% pt. milk, ^ oz. soda, i oz. cream of tartar, 

2 lbs. flour, 2 ozs. citron peel chopped fine, 
a little mace, the grated rind of one lemon. 

Rub the butter in the flour and sift in the cream 
of tartar; dissolve the soda in the milk, and mix 
in the other ingredients; mix only lightly, and 
drop on the greased pans in spoonfuls; wash 
lightly and sprinkle with coarse sugar; bake in a 
good heat. 

336— NEW YORK JUMBLES, NO. 1. 

1 lb. sugar % lb. butter 6 eggs J^ pt. milk 

2 lbs. flour % oz. baking powder vanilla flavor 
Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, flavor and 

flour. Dress on greased pans in rings, or in form 
of S; or use a jumbla forcer, which is a very 
handy machine. Bake in medium heat. 

337— NEW YORK JUMBLES, NO. 2. 
1% lb. sugar, ij^lb. butter, i pt. eggs, i pt. yolks, 
2}i lbs. flour, iK oz. baking powder, vanilla flavor. 
Mix same as No. 336. 

338— JUMBLES. 
I lb. sugar i lb. butter 2 lbs. flour 10 eggs 
lemon or vanilla flavor. 
Mix same as No. 336. 



339— ALMOND JUMBLES. 

I lb. sugar, X lb. butter, % lb. almond paste, 

I pinch ammonia, 8 eggs, 2 lbs, flour, 

vanilla flavor. 

Rub the almond paste smooth with one egg, and 

mix same as the other Jumbles. 

340— VANILLA WAFERS. 
I lb. 2 oz. butter, 8 eggs, i lb. flour, vanilla flavor 

I lb. XXXX powdered sugar. 
Make and dress same as Jumbles. Bake on very 
straight smooth pans lightly greased, and take off 
the pans while warm. 

341— ROLLED WAFERS. 

ICE CREAM WAFERS. 
}i lb. sugar % lb. flour 12 whites of eggs 
vanilla flavor, a little cream or milk. 
Beat the whites firm, add the sugar and flavor 
and mix well, then add the flour and some milk to 
make a soft batter. This mixture can be flavored 
rose and colored pink; or cinnamon added to the 
vanilla, etc. 

Take smooth pans, well cleaned, and make hot 
in the oven; rub over with white wax and let cool. 
(Drained butter may be used also, but it is pre- 
ferable to use wax.) Lay out the wafers and 
spread with the back of a spoon in round or oval 
shape, or about three inches in diameter; then 
put one pan at a time in a good oven of about 400 
degrees Fahrenheit, and let color nicely. Draw 
the pan to the front of the oven, where you can 
reach the wafers, and with the palette knife take 
them up, one after the other, and roll on a stick. 
This has to be done as quick as possible, or the 
wafers will become too crisp and break in rolling. 
To make Cornets, the wafers are rolled on a 
pointed stick. Another way to dress the wafers 
on the pans, is to use a piece of cardboard cut 
like a stencil in the shape of a wafer. The sten- 
cil is put on the pan, then put a little of the pre- 
pared paste in the hole and smooth it with the 
palette knife to an even thickhess; this gives a 
uniform size to the wafer. 

By means of the stencil the wafers are made 
for cases, cornucopias and leaves, which are used 
for decorating show pieces. 

Wafers will keep for a long time in dry air-tight 
boxes, and can be made in all flavors. 
342— ALMOND WAFERS. 
SHU-SHUS. 
4 oz. almond paste % lb. sugar 4 ozs. flour 

vanilla flavor 3 whites of eggs. 
Rub the paste smooth with the whites, add 
sugar, flavor and flour; thin with a little milk or 
cream. For Shu-Shus add a little ground cinna- 
mon and ginger. 

Bake same as No. 341 and bend over a broom 
handle. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



41 



343— BUTTER WAFERS. 
5f lb. sugar 10 oz. butter 2 yolks 3 whole eggs 
10 ozs. flour a little rosewater. 
Mix and spread on the pans; sprinkle with 
chopped almonds; bake and bend on sticks. 
344— SWEDISH CROQUANT WAFERS. 
Three eggs, the weight of the eggs in the shell 
of powdered sugar, the same weight of flour, 
vanilla flavor. 

Mix sugar, eggs and flour together; add a little 
milk or egg white to thin up, spread very thin on 
the pans, sprinkle thickly with shredded cocoanut, 
and bake in a brisk heat. Roll like the other 
wafers of the foregoing receipts. 

345— CHOCOLATE WAFERS. 
8 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. cocoa 7 ozs. flour 4 eggs 
vanilla flavor a little cream. 
Dissolve the cocoa, rub with sugar and eggs, 
add flavor and flour, and thin up with cream to 
make a smooth batter. Bake like the other 
wafers in the foregoing receipts. Roll into cornets; 
fill with whipped cream. 

346— CHOCOLATE WAFERS. 

BAKED ON WAFER PAPER. 

12 OZS, unpeeled almonds crushed fine, i lb. sugar, 

I oz. cinnamon, 8 ozs. chocolate, 6 whites of eggs. 

Beat the whites and mix with the sugar into a 

mernigue; add the melted chocolate, almond and 



Have ready prepared pans greased with melted 
lard, dusted with flour and the surplus shaken o5. 
Dress on the pans in large finger shape (larger 
than lady-fingers). When all the fingers are 
dressed on the pans, dredge them lightly with 
powdered sugar and let them stand for ten to 
fifteen minutes; then turn over to shake ofi the 
surplus sugar. Bake same as lady-fingers in about 
400 degrees Fahrenheit. 

The biscuit may also be baked on paper; but 
after baking should not be turned over and wetted, 
as this would break the little pearls of sugar which 
form during baking. It is best to remove them 
with a palette knife while warm. 

350.— LANGUE DE CHAT BISCUIT. 
CATS' TONGUES. 

yi lb. sugar }i lb. flour j^ lb. butter 

6 whites of eggs, vanilla flavor. 
Beat up the whites; cream butter and sugar, 
and mix in the whites; add flavor and flour. 
Dress on greased and dusted pans like Lady 
Fingers; bake in a good heat and take off the pans 
while warm. 

351.— SPRINGERLE. 

9 eggs, 2 lbs. sugar, 2% lbs, flour, % oz. ammonia, 
% oz. anise seed, the grated rind of one lemon. 
Beat sugar and eggs well together, add the 



cinnamon. Spread the paste on wafer paper and ^^^^^ ^^^ ammonia well dissolved, and work in 



cut in strips two and one-half inches long and 
two-thirds inch wide; put on pans and bake in 
medium heat. 

347— ALMOND WAFERS. 
WALNUT WAFERS. 
Make the same mixture as No. 346; use blanched 
almonds and leave out chocolate and cinnamon; 
flavor vanilla. For WALNUT or FILBERT 
WAFERS use half almonds and half nuts; or 
half almond paste and half nuts, and cut and 
bake in the same manner. 

348— BRANDY WAFERS. 
HONEY WAFERS. 
I pt. molasses or honey, i lb. sugar, i lb. butter, 
1% lb. flour, }i oz. of cloves and cinnamon. 
Mix same way as for cookie dough, and set on ice 
to harden. Break out in small pieces, and set on 
pans some distance apart. 

These wafers require no spreading, only a little 
flattening by hand. Bake in a slow heat and bend 
over a stick or peel handle. 

349.— DUCHESSE WAFERS. 
DUCHESSE BISCUIT. 
20 eggs, separated I lb. powdered sugar 

14 ozs. cake flour vanilla flavor 

Prepare this mixture exactly like No. 250. It 
should have a strong vanilla flavor. 



the flour. Roll in a sheet about half an inch 
thick, and cut in squai.es the size of the forms. 
Put a little starch in a piece of muslin and tie it 
loosely; tap the molds with it and press in tho 
dough; turn out and cut in single pieces; set on 
lightly greased pans and let dry for from four to 
six hours, and bake in a cool oven. The Spring- 
erle boards can be bought at all the confectioners' 
supply stores. 

352.— ALMOND SOUFFLE. 

4 ozs. almond paste, 1 lb. icing sugar, vanilla flavor 
about 4 whites of eggs. 

Rub the almond paste smooth with one or two 
whites, work in the sugar, and add enough white 
of egg to make a firm paste. Roll out very thin 
on the marble, use a little powdered sugar for 
dusting (no flour); cut out iu stars, rings, hearts 
and basket-shapes. (It is best to use a cutter with 
a center tube, or cut a hole in the center of the 
cake with a small cutter: this makes the cake puff 
up better and more even.) Set the cake on lightly 
greased and dusted pans, let dry a little to form a 
thin crust, and bake in a cool oven. 

This cake, if properly made, rises up like puff 
paste. When done and cool, ice with a thin royal 
icing and decorate in different colors. 



42 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



353— MERINGUE SOUFFLE. 
% pt. of white of egg, 4^ lbs. of icing sugar, 
vanilla flavor. 

Beat whites up about half, add the vanilla, and 
mix in three pounds of the sugar; put on the 
marble slab and work in the other sugar, to make 
a firm paste. Roll out very thin, same as in No. 
352; cut out and bake in the same manner. Ice 
with several colors of icings. 

The same mixture may be flavored peppermint 
in place of vanilla; or colored pink and flavored 
rose; or some cocoa powder may be added for 
CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. The mixture can 
also be used in the Springerle forms and for 
larger ornaments. 

354.— FRENCH CROQUANTE. 

18 whites of eggs, 4 ozs. almond paste, 2 lbs. flour, 

3 lbs. icing sugar, vanilla flavor. 

Rub the almonds smooth with some of the 
whites of eggs; beat the other whites up about 
half and mix with the sugar, paste, flavor and 
flour if to a smooth paste. Roll out J^-inch thick, 
cut out like the Almond SoufSe, put on dusted 
pans, let dry a little and bake in medium heat. 

The cakes should puff up like the souffle. Ice 
iwith a thin royal icing and dip the corners in 
colored sugar, or decorate with piping in several 
colors. 

335 —PATIENCE CAKE. 

2 lbs. icing sugar, i pt. white of eggs, i^ lb. flour, 

vanilla flavor. 

Beat the whites of eggs up about one-half, add 
flavor, sugar and flour. Mix well together till the 
mixture gets soft. Put with bag and tube on 
waxed pans in shape of small fingers or drops; 
let dry till a. crust is formed, and bake in a cool 
oven. The cake may be made in several colors 
and flavors. 

356,— ANISE DROPS. 

I lb. sugar i lb. flour 8 eggs % oz. anise seed 

lemon extract. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together on a slow fire, 
same as for sponge cake. When light, add the 
seeds and flavor. Lay out with bag and tube on 
greased and dusted pans in drops the size of a 
silver quarter, and let dry, same as PATIENCE 
CAKE, No. 355, for three or four hours, and 
bake in a cool oven. 

357.— VANILLA CREAM DROPS. 

20 yolks 3 lbs. icing sugar % oz. ammonia 

vanilla flavor. 

Stir sugar, yolks and vanilla till smooth and add 

the ammonia. Dress on waxed or greased and 

Justed pans, same as for ANISE DROPS, No. 



356. Let stand till a thin crust is formed (which 
takes from ten to twenty minutes). Do not let 
dry too much. The mixture should be rather 
firm, just enough to flow. If too soft, add more 
sugar; otherwise, add a little more yolk. Bake in 
a cool oven. 

358.— CHOCOLATE DROPS. 
BAISEfeS. 
3 lbs. sugar, (take half powdered sugar and half 
icing sugar), ^ pt. whites of eggs, 6 ozs. chocolate, 
vanilla flavor. 
Dissolve the chocolate, and stir with the sugar 
and whites of eggs on a slow fire till it is well dis- 
solved and blood warm. Dress with bag and tube 
on greased and dusted pans, same as ANISE 
DROPS, No. 356. Let stand for three hours to 
dry; then bake in a cool oven. 

359.— VANILLA DROPS. 
ROSE DROPS. 
PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

2% lbs. powdered sugar j4. pt. whites of eggs. 

Beat sugar and the whites of eggs on a slow fire 
till lukewarm. Take off and beat till medium 
firm, but flowing. Flavor vanilla or peppermint; 
or color pink and flavor rose. Dress on waxed or 
greased and dusted pans. Let stand for about 
fifteen minutes, or till a thin crust is formed, and 
bake in a cool oven. 

360.— MACAROONS. 

2 lbs. powdered sugar 10 to 12 whites of eggs, 

I lb blanched and well-dried almonds. 

Pound the almonds in the mortar with whites of 
eggs to a fine paste, adding the sugar gradually 
and more whites to make a smooth paste. 

The flavor is improved by using a few bitter 
almonds in the paste, or bitter almond oil. 

Lay the paste out in drops on paper, and bake 

in a medium heat on double pans. When cold 
wet the under side of the paper and remove the 
macaroons. 

361.— MACAROONS FROM ALMOND PASTE. 
I lb. almond paste 6 or 7 whites of eggs 

I lb. 4 ozs coarse powdered sugar (or halt granu- 
lated and half powdered sugar). 
Rub the paste smooth with some whites, add a 
part of the sugar and more whites; work in the 
rest of the sugar, and make into a smooth paste. 
Lay out same as No. 360. 

362.— MACAROON PASTE FOR FANCY 
MACAROONS. 

Make the paste No. 360, with one pound of 
almonds and one pound of sugar and five whites 
of eggs, and dress on papers with bag and star 
tube in fancy shapes. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



43 



363— MACAROON DECORATING. 

Macaroons may be decorated in many ways be- 
fore and after baking. Before baking they may 
be decorated with split almonds, citron and 
angelica cut in diamonds; candied cherries cut in 
small pieces; chopped nuts and almonds. These 
decorations may be varied by laying out the cakes 
in difierent shapes, like rings, S shapes, fingers, 
three small drops touching each other, clover leaf 
fashion, etc., etc. 

After baking, the macaroons may be filled with 
jam or cream by punching a small hole in the top 
while warm and soft, and filling the cavity with a 
paper cornet, and top off with a dot of icing. 

A fancy pattern may be piped on with royal 
icing in several colors; or the cakes may be iced 
and sprinkled with colored or nonpareil sugar, etc. 

Other nuts may be added to the preparation for 
WALNUT and FILBERT MACAROONS, choco- 
late for CHOCOLATE MACAROONS, peels and 
angelica for ORANGE and ANGELICA MACA- 
ROONS. 

364— FRENCH MACAROONS. 

I lb. almond paste, 12 to 14 ozs. powdered sugar, 
about 4 whites of eggs. 

Make <t rather firm paste, same as No. 362 
(which keeps its shape well). Dress with bag and 
star tube on waxed pans, or on paper in fancy 
shapes. Decorate with French fruits glaces, and 
split almonds. Let the macaroons dry for five or 
six hours, and bake in a brisk oven to a nice color. 
When done and while hot, brush over with a thin 
syrup, or with a little gum arable dissolved in 
water. 

365.— PETITS FOURS. 

For the PETITS FOURS take the same paste, 
and dress with bag and tube on small fancy cakes 
cut from Milanaise Pastes Nos. 319-320 Cut 
the shapes from the paste, dress with Macaroon 
Pastes Nos. 362 and 364 in fancy pattern; let dry 
and bake. Finish the center with jelly and royal 
icing. 

366.— MACAROON SLICES. 

Roll out a sheet of paste from No. 319 and cut 
in strips i^ inches wide, as long as the baking 
sheet. Dress on the Almond Paste No. 364, with 
the large star tube, in two strips, leaving about 
one-half inch space in the center. Let dry and 
bake in medium heat. Fill the center with a 
firm jam and cover with strips of tri-colored icing. 
Cut in diamonds while warm, before the paste 
becomes hard. 

367.— BOURBON CONDES. 

Roll out a thin sheet from paste No. 75. Spread 
with greengage jam. Cover this with a thin 



macaroon mixture; dust with sugar; cut in squares 
or rounds, and bake in medium heat. 

368.— METTERNICH BISCUIT. 
Bake large oval macaroons, and bake some oval 
drops from the Savoy Mixture No. 310, of the 
same size. Fill the center with orange jam; put 
macaroon and drop together, and ice with Mara- 
schino Icing. Decorate with cherries and angelica. 

369.— SOUFFLE MACAROONS. 

Take three-quarters pound of almond paste; 
rub smooth with five whites of eggs, and work 
into it one pound four ounces of powdered sugar. 

Beat seven whites firm and draw it into the 
paste, lay out on paper in finger shapes, dust with 
sugar and bake. When done, take off the paper 
and put two fingers together, with a firm fruit jam. 

370.— FRANKFORT MACAROONS. 
I lb. almond paste 2^ Ihs. sugar 2 oz. flour 

2 lbs. finely chopped cocoanut. 

Mix with white of eggs, same as for macaroons, 
and bake in the same manner. 

For CHOCOLATE MACAROONS add four 
ounces of dissolved chocolate or cocoa powder 
and flavor vanilla. 

371.— COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

1 qt. whites of eggs 4 lbs. sugar 8 ozs. flour 

3 lbs. cocoanut, vanilla flavor. 

Beat the whites firm, and beat in about four 
ounces of the sugar and the flavor. Mix sugar, 
flour and cocoanut together, and mix with the 
beaten whites. Mix lightly but fully and dress on 
paper. Bake in 250 degrees Fahrenheit, 

372.— COCOANUT STEEPLES. 
9 whites of eggs 2^ lbs. cocoanut 2^ lbs. sugar 
vanilla flavor. 
Beat the whites, and mix with the sugar and 
cocoanut and flavor. Form into steeples, set on 
greased and dusted pans, and color nicely in a 
quick heat. 

373.— ALMOND BREAD. 
PUMPERNICKEL. 
}i lb. sugar ^ lb. flour i)4 lb. cake crumbs 
}i lb. unpeeled almonds 6 eggs ^ oz. ammonia 

2 ozs. powdered cocoa, }i oz. cinnamon and cloves. 

Mix all the ingredients into a firm paste; roll in 
strips as long as the pan; flatten a little, to make 
the strips i^-inch wide and J^-inch thick; wash 
with egg and bake; ice vanilla and cut in slices 
while warm. 

374,— ANISE TOAST. 

I lb. sugar 8 eggs 4 yolks }i oz anise seed 

I lb. flour, lemon flavor. 

Beat up warm and mix same as Sponge Cakr 



44 



PAUL RICHARDS" BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Bake in long narrow pans greased and dusted with 
flour; let cool, cut in slices, and toast same as 
Zwieback. 

375.— MERINGUES. 

Prepare the No. 94, or the Italian or French 
Meringue pastes Nos. 95 or 96. Get ready the 
Meringue boards as directed in No. 91. Soak in 
water and cover with paper. Prepare also some 
waxed pans, or pans greased and dusted with flour. 
Color a part of the paste pink in a separate bowl. 

376 —APPLES. 
PEARS. 

Take the bag and plain tube; put a little of the 
pink paste in on one side of the bag, and fill with 
the white paste. Drop out in half-inch globules 
on the boards, a little apart. Put in the center of 
half of the drops a small strip of angelica, to 
represent the stem of the apple; and in the center 
of the other drops a whole clove, from which the 
berry has been taken, to form the top. Sprinkle 
with a little colored sugar, and put the boards in 
the oven to dry. The meringues should more dry 
than bake. When sufficiently dry, put two of the 
drops together; this forms the apple. Put away 
carefully, and let dry a little more before serving. 

For PEARS, dress the meringues on in half a 
pear shape, lengthwise, and put together in this 
manner. 

The PEARS may also be dressed on the pans in 
one piece, and finished with angelica and cloves. 

377.— MUSHROOMS. 
Put some of the white Meringue paste in bag, 
and use a plain tube. Put drops on the papered 
boards, same as for apples. Smooth the top with 
a wet finger tip so as to form a half globule. 
Dust the tops with cocoa powder or cinnamon, 
and put in the oven to dry. Take a dusted pan 
and put on as many steeples as you have tops. 
Put the steeples in the oven to dry. When the 
tops are sufficiently dry, lift them off the board 
and place one on each steeple. Let dry a little 
more; this forms the mushioom. 

378 . —STRAWBERRIES. 
GRAPES. 
CHERRIES. 
Dress pink paste on the boards to form half a 
strawberry. Sprinkle thickly with carmine 
colored sugar. Place the stem in one halt, let dry 
and put together; let dry a little more; put on some 
leaves that have been made with green colored 
paste, and you have the Strawberry. 

GRAPES may be made on dusted pans in the 
the same manner. 

For CHERRIES make a bottom of white paste, 
and put on the Cherries in pink or red. Form 
stems and leaves of green colored paste. 



379.— ANIMALS. 

Use one or two colors of paste in one bag; lay 
out on waxed pans in form of pigeons or roosters, 
starting on the tail; form the body, and last draw 
up the head; then put on the wings, feet and eyes. 
Swans and large birds are made on one side only, 
to lay flat on the pan; others can be made to sit 
up straight, 

For other animals, such as dogs, sheep, etc., a 
flat bottom is made from white meringue, sprinkled 
with green colored sugar. Then, with a small 
plain tube, the animal figure is put on; starting at 
the back part of a body in S shape; next make the 
head; then put on the ears, legs, tail and eyes. 
These figures should be dried at a very slow heat 
to be perfect. 

380.— EASTER EGGS. 
Lay the paste with plain tube in half egg shape 
on the boards; let dry, take ofi the boards; take 
out the soft inside and smooth with the back of a 
small spoon; let dry a little more and decorate in 
the same manner as Sponge Eggs No. 316. 

381.— MERINGUE BASKETS. 
Lay out in high ovals, as instructed in No. 317, 
and decorate the same as sponge baskets. The 
baskets can also be made in round shapes, with a 
foot of royal icing, and the sides decorated in 
lattice fashion. 

382. — LARGE MERINGUE CASES FOR 
TOURTES AND ICE CREAMS. 
ALSO SMALL MERINGUE CASES, ETC. 

From the pastes Nos. 94 to 96. 

Dress on a straight waxed baking sheet with the 
lady-finger tube, one round sheet of the size you 
wish it to be. Dress two rings of the same dia- 
meter. For the top make another ring, and fill 
out the center in lattice fashion, or in a fancy pat- 
tern. Let dry well to a light color, very crisp. 
For use, fasten the rings on top of each other on 
the bottom, with marmalade or royal icing. Fill 
the center with cream, or with strawberries and 
whipped cream; or with ice cream, as the case 
may be, and put on the top. It may be further 
decorated with fruits glaces or royal icing. 

Small Tart cases may be made in the same 
manner, 

Large pieces in form of beehives, baskets, wells, 
etc., are put together in the same manner, deco^ 
rated with leaves and flowers. 

Another variety of small Meringues can be 
made with plain and star tube on pans and boards. 
Round and oval shells may be dressed on boards 
like for Easter Eggs No. 380. The soft inside 
taken out and the shells dried, when they may be 
iced with chocolate or fondant icing of different 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKKS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



45 



colors and flavors, filled with nut creams, jams or 
whipped cream; two shells put together and 
served in this manner. 

383.— MERINGUE SLICES. 
Take a thin sheet of baked sponge cake; spread 
with fruit jam, and cut in strips two inches wide. 
Lay on top of the jam, with bag and tube, four 
strips of meringue, to cover the jam. On top of 
this put three strips; then two; then one, in taper- 
ing fashion. Dust with sugar and color nicely in 
the oven. When done, cut with a knife, dipped 
in water, into slices. 

Another way is to cut the strips with the mer- 
ingue before baking. Dip the knife in hot water 
and cut down, and bring the knife up straight, to 
smooth the sides, pushing the pieces apart, and 
dust with sugar; then brown lightly in the oven. 
Another way is to make the slices, spread on the 
meringue and smooth it half round; dust with 
sugar; brown and then ice with hot chocolate 
icing, and cut in slices. 

384.— MERINGUE DROPS. 

BOUCHEES DES DAMES. 
Bake drops of meringue on boards, and drops 
of Savoy mixture No. 250, of the same size. Fill 
and ice same as No. 315. 

383.— CREAM ROLLS. 

CANNELONS A LA CREME. 
Take puff pastes No. 75 or 76; roll into a thin 
sheet about one-eighth inch thick; cut into strips 
eight to ten inches long and three-fourths inch 
wide; brush with egg-wash and roll on sticks, 
overlapping the edges; or roll on conical tin tubes 
to form cornets. Dip in granulated sugar, bake 
in a medium heat; fill with pastry or whipped 
cream, or with a meringue flavored with vanilla. 
386.— CREAM SLICES. 

NAPOLEON CAKES. 
Roll out two thin sheets of puff paste, prick 
with a fork, and bake well done. Spread one 
with vanilla pastry cream, and put the other 



fruit jam in the center and fold over; press tha 
sides together, brush over with egg wash and bake. 
When cold decorate with royal icing interpersed 
with dots of fruit jelly, 

389.— TURNOVERS. 
GATES AJAR. 
, Proceed same as for Rissoles; cut in squares, 
ovals or rounds; roll a little thin in the center; 
bake with a little filling, or without any filling, 
because they puff up better without. When done, 
split open on the side and fill with marmalade or 
cream. 

Gates Ajar are made like Turnovers, cut in 
squares and filled with jam, folded in triangles 
and baked. 

390.— FLORENTINES. 
Roll out puff paste very thin, cut out a bottom; 
wash and place on a ring of the same paste; fill 
center with plum jam; put on a pyramid of mer- 
ingue paste; sprinkle with shredded almonds or 
pistachios; dust with sugar and bake to a nice 
color. 

391.— ALMANTINOS. 

Cut out rings from thin puff paste; wash with 
water and dip in chopped almonds; dust with 
sugar, bake nice and crisp; jam two together. 

392.— PLAITS. 
Roll out the puff paste and cut in thin strips; 
plait three or four together, form in rings or 
crescents; wash and dust with sugar and almond°' 
bake in a good heat. 

393.— MARIGOLDS. 
Proceed same as for Florentines; place no jam 
in the center; wash with eggs, and form a cross 
of split almonds into the center; press down, dust 
with sugar and bake; when done decorate with 
jelly and royal icing. 

394.— ROSES. 
Roll out puff paste, and with a five or six 
pointed star cutter cut out in pieces; wash with 
water and fold the points of the star into the 



sheet bottom up on top of the cream; ice with center; bake, and when nearly done, take to tha 



vanilla or chocolate icing and cut in slices. 
387.— PUFF. PASTE SANDWICH. 

Roll out puff paste into a thin sheet and put on 
a baking pan; spread with a thick layer of jam; 
wash the edges of the sheet and place another 
thin sheet of the same paste on top, pressing it 
well together on the sides. Mark the top into 
oblong slices; wash over and bake. When nearly 
done, dust some sugar over; put back in the oven 
till the sugar is melted to form a glazing. Let 
cool and cut in slices. 

388.— RISSOLES. 

Roll out puff paste into a thin sheet; cut out 
circulars or ovals, wash with water; place a little 



oven door and dust with sugar; put back in the 
oven to glaze and finish baking. The paste should 
puff up like a rose. Fill with a little jelly, and 
decorate with royal icing. 

395.— PARISIENNES. 
Take puff paste which has got only four turns; 
finish the other turns, dusting each turn, and fold 
with powdered sugar. Roll out very thin and cut 
in pieces, say six to twelve inches. Roll this sheet 
up in one roll same as for jelly roll; or roll from 
each side to the center; or roll in form of a S, as 
tight as possible. Cut in thin slices with a sharp 
knife; put on pans cut side up, and bake in a 
quick heat. When they take color, turn over on 



46 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



the other side and finish batcing. The sugar 
should glaze nicely and form a caramel. Take oS 
the pans while hot. 

396.— BASKETS. 

Cut out ovals from puff paste with a crimped 
cutter: mark the top same as for Patties, but in 
two parts, leaving the center to form the handle. 
Wash with eggs and bake. Push the sides down, 
or remove the soft inside paste; fill with jelly or 
whipped cream. 

The handle may be baked separate on a half 
round tin, and placed over the cream, or fastened 
with royal icing. 

397.— BIRDS' NESTS, 
Bake small patty cases from pufi paste. When 
done, brush with a thin royal icing and scatter 
over plenty of shredded cocoanut. Put back in 
the oven for a moment to color lightly; fill the 
center with jelly or jam, and place three or four 
small blanched almonds on the jelly to represent 
the eggs; or use some small candy eggs. 

398.— LARGE PUFF PASTE CAKES. 

Large pieces from puff paste are built up in 
rings (which are baked separate and put together 
with jam or caramel sugar, or a couple of patty 
cases, diminishing in diameter) are placed on 
top of each other to form a pyram'd. 

Another way is to bake a skeleton frame of the 
croquant paste No. 89, and place the puff paste 
rings (after they are baked) over the frame, fasten- 
ing with caramel or royal icing. 

The forms may be decorated with meringue or 
almond icing, and browned lightly in the oven 
before filling; or it may be decorated with fancy 
macaroons or other small cakes, etc. 

400.— FRUIT SLICES. 

BELGRADE SLICES. 
2^ lbs. sugar, 3 lbs. flour, 10 eggs, % oz. ammonia, 
the grated rind of one lemon, yi a grated nutmeg, 
8 ozs. sultanas, 8 ozs. almonds, 8 ozs. currants, 
4 ozs. citron. 
Beat sugar and eggs together and mix with the 
dry ingredients into a paste; roll out in strips; 
make and bake same as No. 373. 

401.— ANISE SLICES. 

I lb. sugar, 12 yolks of eggs, yi oz. ammonia, 

% oz. anise seed, i>^ lb. flour, the grated rind of 

one lemon. 

Mix same as No. 400; bake in strips and cut in 

402.— OPERA SLICES. 
Roll out puff paste in a thin sheet, cut into three- 
inch wide strips. Fill the center of the strip 
with a filling from No. 173 to No. 178; fold the 



sides over the cream; wash and put on a netting 
of pufi paste strips; bake and cut in slices. 

403.— FLORADORA SLICES. 
Bake a bottom from paste No. 82, and a top 
from paste No. 75. Mark the top into oblongs 
with a knife before baking. Spread the baked 
bottom with Floradora cream No. 157; put on the 
top sheet, ice pink and sprinkle with chopped 
pistachio nuts. Cut into slices. 

404.— ECCLES CAKE. 

Make same as the Rissoles No. 388. Fill with 
the raisin pie mixture, or with mince meat. Bake 
in a good heat. 

403.— ALMOND SLICES. 

A variety of other slices can be made by spread- 
ing a layer of almond paste between two layers of 
pufi paste; cut in strips or slices, egg wash and 
sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake to a 
nice color. 

From the Milanaise paste No. 319 another 
variety can be made; using one layer of puff paste 
and one layer of Milanaise; or bake strips of 
Milanaise, put together with jam, ice and sprinkle 
with nuts or almcnds while warm, and cut in 
slices before the baked paste gets too crisp. 

Another way is to roll out one sheet of pufl 
paste or short paste; spread with jam, and with 
bag and tube spread a net work of soft macaroon 
paste over. Bake and cut into squares or slices. 

406— QUEEN BISCUIT. 
I lb. of almonds, i lb. of sugar, 4 whites of eggs, 
one-half lemon rind grated. 
Crush the almonds and make into a smooth 
paste with the whites and sugar. Roll out and 
cut in crescents or rings; wash and dip in finely 
shredded almonds, and bake in a slow heat. 

407.— SEED BISCUIT. 
4 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. butter, i lb. flour, 3 eggs, 
yi oz. seeds of carraway, lemon extract. 
Make into a paste and cut out in round biscuits; 
wash with egg-wash, and bake in medium heat. 

408 — SAVARIN CAKE. 
3 lbs. flour, lyi pt. milk, 4 ozs. yeast, i lb. butter, 
10 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. chopped almonds, the grated 
rind of one lemon, 12 whole eggs, 6 yolks, 
one-half nutmeg grated. 
Dissolve the yeast in warm milk, and make a 
soft sponge with a part of the flour; cover and set in 
a warm place to rise. It will be ready and begin 
to drop in the center in about ore hour. When 
it reaches this point, cream the butter, sugar and 
eggs; add it to the sponge with almonds and flavor, 
and with the rest of the flour make a smooth 
dough. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OP BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 47 

Butter some large or small Savarin molds; of butter, six eggs, flavor lemou, and make into a 
sprinkle with shredded almonds, and fill the molds dough with the rest of the flour. 



about half with the batter; let rise till nearly full, 
and bake in medium heat to a nice color. When 
done dust with powdered sugar and cinnamon 
while warm. 

409.— FRENCH BABA. 

2 lbs. flour, I lb. 4 ozs. butter, i pt. milk, 

3 ozs. yeast, 8 ozs. sugar, ii whole eggs, 4 yolks, 
the grated rind of one lemon, 8 ozs. sultana raisins, 

4 ozs. French cherries cut in quarters, 4 ozs. 
orange and citron peel cut fine, 6 ozs. chopped 

almonds, X °^- ground mace. 

Proceed same as for Savarin Cake; set a sponge 
and work in the other ingredients when ready. 
Bake in the Turban or Baba forms, and dust with 
vanilla or cinnamon sugar while warm. 

The Savarin and Baba mixtures are also used 
for PUDDINGS. In this case the cake is saturated 
with a light syrup, flavored with rum or kirsch- 
wasser and served with another sauce. (See 
PUDDINGS.) 

410.— BERLIN NAPFKUCHEN. 

2 lbs. flour, i}i, lb. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, % pt, milk, 

3 ozs. yeast, 8 whole eggs, 8 yolks, 6 ozs. citron, 
6 ozs. chopped almonds, 8 ozs. sultanas, 8 ozs. 
currants, the grated rind of one lemon, a little 

ground mace. 
Warm the flour, dissolve the yeast in the warm 
milk; cream the butter and sugar with the eggs; 
add the milk and yeast and beat in the floar; add 
the fruit; fill in the well-buttered form about 
half, and l6t raise till nearly full; bake in medium 
heat. When done, brush with melted butter and 
dust with sugar and cinnamon. 

411.— DRESDEN BABA. 
I lb. butter, 8 ozs. sugar, 12 whites of eggs, 
16 yolks, I lb. 6 ozs. flour, 2 oz. yeast dissolved 
in a little warm milk, the grated rind of one lemon, 
4 ozs. shredded almonds. 
Cream butter, sugar and yolks. Beat the 
wliites firm and mix into the cream with the yeast; 
draw in fiour lightly, but fully; sprinkle the well- 
buttered form with the shredded almonds, fill half 
full with the mixture; let raise in a warm place 
till nearly full, and bake in a medium heat. 
When done, brush with butter and dust with 
sugar and cinnamon. 

412.— PLAIN GUGELHOPF. 

Two and one-half pounds of flour, one-half 
pint milk, two ounces of yeast to make a soft 
sponge with part of the flour. 

When the sponge is ready, add one pint of 
warm milk, eight ounces of sugar, eight ounces 



Work into it one-half pound of raisins and one- 
half pound of currants. 

Fill the forms (which have been buttered and 
sprinkled with almonds) half full; let raise, and 
bake in a good heat. Brush with butter, and 
dust with sugar and powdered cinnamon when 
done. 

413.— ORNAMENTING LARGE CAKES. 

The suggestions I have given about ornament- 
ing the small cakes, can be applied in a more 
elaborate way for the larger cakes. 

The ROYAL ICING may be colored in delicate 
shades, or left plain; the FONDANT and WATER 
ICINGS may be used in the same manner, 

The CHOCOLATE and CARAMEL ICINGS 
are also effective for decorating, if trimmed in 
pink or white colors. 

The cake to be iced should be trimmed straight 
and the icing put on in one or two coatings, and 
let dry before decorating. 

I think a fine line ornamenting the most artistic, 
but it requires considerable skill and long practice, 
aiso a steady hand. 

In decorating, it is best to find the exact center 
of the cake; mark the outer edge in even divisions, 
and put on the design. 

A plainer and more practical way, and most 
effective, for the less experienced, is to use 
stamps, designs of scrolls and figures, which can 
be made, or bought in supply houses, Mark out 
the top of the cake with a square or star pattern 
in divisions, mark the divisions with the scroll or 
stamp, and then trace the lines with bag and tube. 

The Royal Icing should be light but tough, for 
line-ornamenting, with very little acid; or better, 
without any, because acid makes the icing porous 
and the lines break easily. To increase the 
effect, silver and gold dragees, leaves and flowers, 
made from icing and gum pastes, may be used. 

For cakes iced with Fondant and Water Icing 
the French fruits glaces may be used for leaf and 
flower effects; also for small baskets and cornu- 
copias, interspersed with a line decoration of 
Royal Icing. 

The different colored fruit jellies may be ap- 
plied, pressed through a cloth and filled in a paper 
cornet, between the other decorations, which is 
also very effective and rich looking. 

Other large ornaments for cake tops are made 
from firm macaroon paste in form of rings and 
scrolls, baked and put together with caramel sugar 
or Royal Icing, decorated with piping and with 
candied fruit, etc. 



48 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

414,— THE USE OF CAKE CRUMBS AND crumbs, they may be used with half the flour in 

LEFT-OVER CAKES. spiced muffins, ginger bread, or in Boston brown 

I have given a variety of recipes in which cake bread, 

crumbs are mentioned, and also others where the In the following pudding receipts, cakes and 

left-over cake can be used in pieces. These crumbs are required in many ways, and there is 

recipes are useful to dispose of cake trimmings use for all of them, so that there is no need of 

and broken or stale cakes. Even bread crumbs any of them going to waste, 

may be used to some extent, but in these cakes the It is best to keep the light and dark crumbs 

mixtures should be made richer. Crumbs are also and cakes apart, so they can be used as required, 

mentioned in some fillings, where they take the Rich crumbs readily become rancid and should 

place of eggs. If there is still a surplus of be used as fresh as possible. 

end of part three. 
{other receipes to follow in the bread making.) 



PART 4. 



415.— PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. if the pudding is to be boiled, it is best to sus- 

, . 1.1- ii. • J. 1 J . ,1. pend it in the boiling water, so it does not touch 

As in cake baking, the ingredients used in the . , . , , , . . 

jj. . u ,j i_ I „ 1 J- J J the botton of the pot; or a perforated pie tin may 

pudding receipes should be carefully studied and , '^ '^ . . -^ . 

iu- t ij I. 1 J u . • • be placed in the bottom to prevent this. Daring 

everything should be got ready before mixing. . .,'. , •, , , , , 

~, , , . , ... . ^, , ,. ° ^. boiling, the pudding should be covered by the 

The baking or boiling of the puddings to the " , / „„ , . , , ... 

... . ^ . 1- , ^ ,.1 • J ,. water, and the pot filled with more boiling water 

right point IS essential to obtain good results. . . ., , .... 

o r.u- j-i -i-i- J as it boils down, till the pudding IS done. 

Some of the ingredients, as rice, farma, tapioca and '^ 

sago, take up a large amount of milk or water in nrrnnTVP c a nrrc 

boiling or baking. If the boiling is continued too 

long, the liquid evaporates, making the pudding 416. — WINE CREAM SAUCE, 

dry. The same materials differ often greatly in FOAMING SAUCE, 

their liquid absorbing qualities, therefore good CHAUDEAU. 

judgment has to be used, adding more or less j lb. of sugar, 12 yolks, i quart of white wine, 

liquid to make the pudding perfect. j stick of cinnamon, }^ lemon, }4 orange peel. 
After the mixtures have been prepared, before g^^, ^„g^, ^^^ y„H^^ together, dilute with the 

baking, they should be tasted carefully, to ascer- ^;„^_ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^ p^^l ^^ cinnamon. Set on a 

tain if they contain the proper flavor and season- ^j^^ g^^ ^^^ ^^^ constantly till it thickens; take 



ing 



ofi the fire at once, strain and serve. This sauce 



In baking light puddings which contain custard, ^^^„,j ^^ prepared shortly before serving, to 

the pudding should bake only until the eggs are ^^^^ j^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ,^3^ ^„g^^ ^^^ 1,^ ^^^^ 

set; more baking makes the puddings puff up according to the sweetness of the wine. 

high, the eggs separate from the milk, which 

curdles, and when taken from the oven the pud- 417.— SABAYON SAUCE. 

ding falls and gets watery. I lb- sugar, i pint wine, i pint water, 6 eggs. 

Puddings that are served in the dishes in which i oz- cornstarch, i lemon, juice and rind, 

they are baked require less eggs, and can be Dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold watet 

made more tender than the puddings which have and mix with the yolks; beat the whites firm, 

to be turned from the molds before serving. Let the other ingredients come to a boil, stir in 

Puddings which are turned from the molds are starch and yolks; take ofi at once; strain, and 

best if baked in a pan partly filled with hot water; beat in the whites. Serve. 

and for hot puddings, the molds should be but- 418.— ENGLISH BRANDY SAUCE. 

tered and sprinkled with granulated sugar before ENGLISH RUM SAUCE 

filling in the mixture. In this manner they are _ , , .^, „ 

° , , , , , Cream one pound of sugar with five ounces of 

easily turned out of the mold. . ^^ j • v.. n « .. ^u yz 

■^ -ft.- butter and eight yolks of eggs; put on the fire 

Most all the hotels have steamers, m which nee, .^. • » . w -i- ^ »■ .-ii -x.i.- , 

, ^ . , , , with one pint of boiling water; stir till it thickens, 

sago and tapioca can be steamed to best advantage ., a \ ..■ ■ -n u j 

^ '^. , , , ..■,... X. .. take OH at once; stir in one gill brandy or rum, 

without stirring, and then finished with the other , ,, • u ^ j ^ 

f , 3 » xt L , • and add a pinch of ground mace or nutmeg, 

ingredients and made ready for the baking. o 

STEAMER FOR PASTRY ROOM: The best, ^"'*' 

cheapest and most practical steamer for the pastry 419.— ENGLISH CREAM SAUCE with RUM. 

room, is a closet, made from galvanized sheet iron, SAUCE ANGLAIS. 

about 16 inches square, and from 18 to 24 inches i lb. sugar, i pint wine, j^ pint rum, i oz. butter, 

high, with changeable perforated shelves of the 6 yolks, i oz. cornstarch, the grated rind and 

same material, a perforated steampipe run in juice of one lemon. 

along the bottom in the rear; and a small trough Prepare same as No. 417. Add butter and rum 

at the bottom in front of the door, which catches jggj^ Serve. 

the condensed water, to run from there into a pail leMON CREAM SAUCE. 

or drain. In these steamers, steamed rolls and CUSTARD SAUCE. 

dumplings can be set right on the shelves and 

steamed without molds. And for other steamed ^ l"^" °i "^^^ ^''^^ °r "^a-". « °«- °f sugar. 

puddings and Boston brown bread they are far 8 eggs, i oz. cornstarch, grated rind of two lemons. 

more practical and make better puddings, than Separate the eggs, dissolve the starch in a little 

the deep cast iron vegetable steamers often found cold milk, and mix with the yolks; beat the whites 

in the pastry rooms. firm- Set milk, sugar and lemon rini to boil; 



so 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



when near boiling, add the yolks and starch, and 
stir till it thickens; strain and beat in the whites. 
Serve. 

4SI.— ENGLISIJ CREAM SAUCE. 
Prepare same as No. 420; leave out the lemon 
rind, add four ounces of blanched and shredded 
almonds, lightly browned; flavor with sherry, 
maraschino or vanilla. 

422.— ORANGE CREAM SAUCE. 
Prepare like the Lemon Cream Sauce No. 420, 
and flavor orange; or, better, make Sauce No. 417, 
and flavor with the grated rind of half an orange. 

423.— CHOCOLATE CREAM SAUCE. 
I lb. sugar, 6 ozs. butter, i quart milk or cream, 
6 ozs. chocolate or cocoa powder, i oz. cornstarch, 
8 yolks, vanilla flavor. 
Dissolve sugar and chocolate, add the milk 
gradually; let come near a boil, add the yolks and 
starch, and stir till it thickens; take off the flre, 
add the butter, strain and flavor vanilla. 

424.— VANILLA CREAM SAUCE. 
Prepare same as for No. 420. Leave out the 
lemon rind, and flavor vanilla. 

425— BRANDY SAUCE. 
I quart of water, i^ lb. sugar, i gill of brandy, 
the juice and peel of one lemon, 2 ozs. cornstarch, 
I stick cinnamon or nutmeg, % lb. butter. 
Set water, sugar, lemon peel and juice and spices 
to boil; let boil till clear; add the cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little water; let boil till clear again; 
take ofi the fire; strain, add butter and brandy. 
Serve. 

426.— MAPLE SYRUP SAUCE. 
Dissolve one pound of maple sugar in one pint 
of water; let boil clear, and add two ounces of 
butter. Serve. 

427.— LEMON SAUCE. 
ORANGE SAUCE. 

PUDDING SAUCE FOR ALL PUD- 
DINGS. 
I quart of water, i lb. sugar, 1^ oz, cornstarch, 
the peel and juice of two lemons. 
Set sugar, water, peel and lemon juice to boil. 
Let boil a couple of minutes, add the dissolved 
starch; let boil clear, strain and serve. 

This sauce may be improved by adding half a 
pint of wine; using less water. 
For ORANGE SAUCE flavor with orange rind. 
For other sauces use only one lemon, half the 
peel; adding a little whole allspice or stick cinna- 
mon. Flavor with wines, brandy or rum, and 
color the sauce, in accordance with the liquors or 
wines used, with caramel or cochineal coloring. 



428.— CLEAR WHITE WINE SAUCE 
SAUCE VIN BLANC, 
t lb. sugar, i pint of white wine, I pint of water 
the peel and juice of one lemon, \% oz. cornstarcn. 
Prepare same as No. 427. 

429 —SAUCE CARDINAL. 

1 lb. sugar, i pint claret, i pint water, ^ pint rum, 
x}i oz. cornstarch, ^ doz. whole cloves, 

the peel and juice of one oitange. 
Prepare same as No. 427. 

430.— SAUCE BISHOP. 
Prepare Sauce No. 428 with burgundy wine; 
flavor orange and cinnamon. 

431.— CLARET WINE SAUCE WITH SAGO. 
5 ozs. sago, I pint water, i pint claret, i lb. sugar, 
the Jnice of two oranges, a little of the grated rind, 
I stick of cinnamon, ^ pint of rum. 
Soak the sago tor a couple of hours; let boil in 
the water till clear, add sugar, wine, juice and 
spice; let boil till it thickens; take out the cinna- 
mon, add the rum and serve. 

432.— SAUCE MACEDOINE. 
S ozs. candied cherries, 2 ozs. angelica, 

2 ozs. pineapple, 2 ozs. apricots. 
Make one quart of white wine sauce, add the 

candied fruit, cut in dice, and let simmer slowly 
till tender. Use hot or cold. Flavor maraschino. 

433.— SAUCE POLONAISE. 
Make a clear white wine sauce No. 428, and add 
to each quart two ounces of blanched and shred- 
ded almonds, two ounces of sultanas, two ounces 
01 currants, one ounce of candied orange peel 
shredded. Let the fruit simmer in the sauce till 
tender. Serve. 

434.— SULTANA SAUCE. 
Prepare same as No, 433; add six ounces of 
sultanas. 

435.— CURRANT SAUCE. 
Prepare Sauce No. 431, and add four ounces of 
currants. 

436.— FRUIT SAUCES. 
Fruit sauces may be made from any surplus 
juices left over from canned fruits. The juice 
should be boiled down to a syrup, adding more 
sugar and the juice of lemons; or cornstarch and 
sago may be used for thickening. 

For cold sauces no starch is required, because 
the syrup thickens sufficiently when cold. 

437.— FRUIT SAUCE FROM ALL FRUITS. 

I lb. sugar, 1 pint fruit juice, the juice of one lemon, 

I pint water, i oz. cornstarch. 

Dissolve the starch in some cold water. Boil 

juice, water and sugar, add the starch and let boil 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS 

till clear. Less sugar may be used if the juice is 
sweetened. 

Some whole fruit may be added to the sauces — 
berries, whole; peaches, pears and apricots cut in 
dice. 



51 

pistachios, etc.; and it can be colored to suit tbt 
requirements. 



438.— PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

I pint can of sliced pineapple, cut in dice, (or 

I pint of fresh fruit), i}i lb. sugar, }4 pint water, 

X pint of white wine, the juice of one lemon only, 

I oz. cornstarch. 

Make a clear sauce like No. 428; add the pine- 
apple. 

For a cold sauce, leave out one-half a pint of 
water and the starch, and let cool. 

439,— PEACH SAUCE. 
I quart of preserved or fresh peaches, i lb, sugar, 
I pint water, ^ oz. cornstarch, the juice one lemon. 
Make a syrup with the water and sugar; add the 
peaches, cut in dice, and the juice; thicken with 
the starch; let boil slowly till clear. Serve hot 
or cold. 

440.— APRICOT SAUCE. 

Take apricot jam and dilute with boiling water 
to the consistency of a sauce; or take one pint of 
apricot pulp, half a pint of water, one pound of 
sugar, one-half ounce of cornstarch; flavor with 
some orange rind, let boil clear, and serve hot or 
cold. 

441.— COLD STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 
COLD RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Take one quart of ripe berries and crush with 
i^ pound of sugar. Press through a sieve or 
colander. Stir well together in a cold place till 
sugar and juice form a clear sauce, like jelly. 

The flavor of strawberries is improved by add- 
ing some orange juice (a little acid hastens the 
jellying process). 

Other ripe fruits, like apricots, peaches and 
cherries, may be made into sauces by the same 
process; to be served with ice creams or frozen 
puddings. 



442.- 



-COLD CREAM SAUCE. 



I pint rich milk, i pint double cream, 8 ozs. sugar, 
% oz. gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in cold water; beat up the double 
cream to a firm froth. Let the milk and sugar 
come near the boiling point, and let cool till blood- 
warm; add the gelatin; stir till well dissolved, 
strain and put on ice to cool; stir, and before it 
thickens add the flavor and the whipped cream. 

This sauce may be used for many cold puddings, 
flavored with fruit juices, vanilla, wines or ex- 
tracts, chopped nuts, browned almonds, or green 



443,— COLD CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

i}i lb. sugar, i pint water, vanilla flavor, 
8 ozs. chocolate or cocoa povrder. 

Dissolve the chocolate and sugar gradually with 
one pint of boiling water; let come to a boil, taka 
off and let cool; flavor vanilla and serve. 

444.— COLD SABAYON SAUCE. 
Make sauce No. 416 or 417, and beat cold on 
ice. Flavor sherry, rum or maraschino. 

445.— VANILLA CREAM SAUCE. 
SAUCE MOUSSELINE. 

Beat one pint of double cream on ice till nearly 
firm; sweeten with four ounces of powdered 
sugar and flavor vanilla. 

For MOUSSELINE flavor with the suitable 
cordials, as maraschino, noyeau, etc. 

446.— WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE FOR 
DECORATING. 

To obtain a firm cream which can be used for 
ornamenting cold puddings with bag and tube, use 
double cream that is a day old (new cream does 
not beat up well). Prepare the cream some time 
before it is wanted; put it in a basin and beat on 
ice, or in a cold place, with slow and even motion, 
till the beater stands in the cream, or till it can 
be drawn to a point. 

Fast beating breaks the cream, makes it curala 
and get weak; a pinch of salt added assists in 
giving better consistency to the cream. 

After the cream is beaten up firaa, put it on a 
sieve to drain for thirty minutes. 

To use it, beat into one quart of cream from 
four to six ounces of fine powdered sugar, add 
flavor, and use with bag and tube. The puddings 
may be decorated in reverse colors, using pink and 
white cream. 

447.— HARD SAUCE. 

I lb. powdered sugar, 8 ozs. butter, a little mace, 

the grated rind and juice of half a lemon; 

flavor of rum, brandy or vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar till light and white, 
add the flavor. Fill the cream into the bag, and 
with the star tube lay out in little pyramids, in 
portion forms, on cold pie tins. Grate over a 
little nutmeg and put on ice to harden. 

Whipped cream or the beaten whites of eggs 
may be added during the creaming, to make a 
lighter sauce. The cream fillings Nos. 12a and 
123 may also be used for HARD SAUCE. 



PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIBS, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 

448.— APPLE PUDDING, FAMILY STYLE. 

Peel and cut six large apples in small dice, mix 
with sugar and cinnamon and the grated rind of 
one lemon. Take one pound of bread crumbs and 
four ounces of currants, and mix crumbs and 
apples together. Cream six ounces of sugar with 
eight ounces of butter and six yolks of eggs; add 
one pint of milk and mix with crumbs and apples. 
Last, add the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; 
fill into pudding dish, and bake to a nice color. 
Serve with wine or brandy sauce. 

449,— VIENNA APPLE PUDDING. 

Take paste No. 85 and roll out into a thin sheet; 
cover with Apple Braise No. 32 (or use raw 
apples chopped very fine and mixed with sugar, 
currants, almonds and butter). Roll the fruit 
into the paste; place in a long bread pan, or coil 
in a round pudding pan. The pudding should 
about half fill the pan. Pour over the pudding 
some hot milk to fill the pan; put in the oven and 
bake, till the milk is absorbed, to a nice color 
Serve with Cream Sauce, 

450.— ENGLISH APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter small individual pudding dishes. Put in 
the bottom one layer of bread crumbs. Take 
nice tart apples, peel and core; cut in very thin 
slices; mix with sufficient sugar, a little grated 
nutmeg, and fill the dishes with the apples. Put 
on top a pat of butter. Sprinkle with a little 
wine or water, and cover same as a pie with a rich 
crust No. 76 or No. 79. Brush with milk and 
eggwash, and bake till the apples are soft. Serve 
hot or cold with Hard Sauce or Cream Sauce. 

451.— APPLE BREAD PUDDING. 

Cut bread into thin slices and toast in the oven 
to a nice brown. Prepare a custard like No. 161. 
Peel and cut apples in thin slices. Fill the dish 
in layers, with the bread soaked in the custard, 
and the apples; finish with bread. Pour over 
more custard, as much as the bread will take up. 
Bake till the apples are soft. Serve with Wine 
Cream Sauce No. 417. 

452 —APPLE PUDDING A LA REINE. 

Prepare a compote of apples No. 31. Cut 
some sponge or pound cake in dice. Butter and 
sugar the pudding forms; fill the molds with 
alternate layers of cake and apples; finish with 
cake. Pour over a custard No. 161, till the cake 
is well saturated. Bake in pans partly filled with 
hot water, till the custard is done. Serve with 
English Cream Sauce with sliced almonds (see 
No. 421). 



4S3- 



APPLE BATTER PUDDING. 
BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Prepare the compote of apples, No. 29 or 30 
of small-sized apples. Put one in each individual 
pudding dish. Fill the core with sugar, butter 
and some raisins or currants. 

Prepare a batter like cream puff mixture No. 
102. Take i pint of milk and let come to a boil 
with 4 ounces of butter and 6 ounces of sugar. 
When it boils, take off the fire and stir into it 10 
ounces of sifted flour. Work in gradually 8 whole 
eggs, and thin up with one more pint of milk. 
Add a pinch of salt, the grated rind of one lemon, 
a little mace. Cover the apples with this mixture 
and bake. Serve hot with wine sauce: or cold 
with sweetened whipped cream. 

A large variety of these batter puddings can be 
made with any fresh fruit in season, and also of 
preserved fruit. 

454.— APPLE COBBLER. 
Line a deep baking pan with pie paste, and fill 
with stewed or raw apples, sliced, sweetened and 
flavored like for apple pie. Cover with a top 
crust, brush with egg-wash and bake. Serve 
with cream or wine sauce. 

45S.— FRENCH APPLE PUDDING. 
Line a pan with short paste No 82, and fill with 
apple braise No. 32. Cover with puff paste No. 
75 or 76. Mark the top in portions, wash with 
egg and bake. Ice with vanilla, cut in squares, 
and serve with vanilla cream sauce — hot or cold. 

456.— BAKED APPLE ROLL. 
Roll out a sheet from paste No. 76, 77 or 79. 
Spread with finely-chopped apples, sweetened and 
spiced. Brush the edges of the sheet with water, 
make into a roll, set on pan, egg wash, and bake 
in a good heat of 350 to 4oo« Fahr. When done, 
cut in slices and serve with cream or wine sauce. 

457.— BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 
Take the same paste as for Baked Apple Roll 
No. /jjS, roll out thin and cut in squares large 
enough to fold one apple in. Wash the squares 
with water; put one apple, peeled and cored, on 
each square. Fill the core with sugar flavored 
cinnamon, put on a small pat of butter, fold the 
paste over the apple, egg wash, and bake in a good 
heat. Serve with any suitable sauce. 

458.— APPLE MERINGUE. 
Line bottom and sides of a sq'iare baking pan 
with short paste No. 82 or 83. Bake lightly and 
spread thickly with Apple Marmalade No. i, or 
Apple Braise No. 32. Make the Meringue No. 93. 
Cover the apples with it, and put part of it ia 
bag and decorate nicely; dust with sugar and put 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, 

in the oven to color. When done, cut in squares 
and serve with cream sauce. 

Another way is to place some pastry cream in 
an individual pudding dish, cover with Apple 
Braise No. 32, and decorate with meringue. 
Serve hot or cold, with or without sauce. 



4S9— APPLE TURNOVER. 
Prepare like No, 388 or 389. Fill with Apple 
Marmalade No. i, or Apple Braise No. 32. It is 
preferable to bake the turnovers without any fill- 
ing, because they puff much better. Split and 
fill when baked. Serve with cream sauce. 

460.— STEAMED APPLE ROLL. 
ROLY POLY. 

Take dumpling pastes Nos. 85 to 87. Roll out 
and prepare same as for the baked roll No. 456. 
Steam; or roll in a wet cloth dusted with flour; 
tie up, leaving a little room to swell; boil for forty- 
five minutes. Steaming requires less time. Serve 
with cream sauce or hard and brandy sauce. 

All the other steamed or boiled rolls are made 
in the same manner. 

For very juicy fruit a layer of bread crumbs 
may be put on the paste before putting on the 
fruit, to retain the juice. 

Another way is to sweeten the fruit after the 
roll is done, cutting it the full length and adding 
the sugar Serve with any suitable sauce. 

461.— STEAMED APPLE DUMPLING. 
Use the same paste as for the steamed roll No. 
460. Prepare like the baked dumplings No. 457. 
S team righ t on the shelf in the steamer. They may 
also be steamed in cups, or tied in squares of cloth 
and boiled. Steam or boil till the apples are soft. 
Serve with cream or hard sauce. 

462. APPLE COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Take 6 ounces of sugar, 6 ounces of butter, 6 to 
8 eggs, I pint of milk, i}i pounds of flour, i ounce 
of baking powder. 

Mix like for cakes, and flavor with the grated 
rind of one lemon and a pinch of mace. Cut 
some tart apples in dice or in thin slices; mix with 
the batter. Bake in buttered pans, and serve with 
a nice sauce. 

This pudding may also be steamed, and can be 
used for other fruits, like No. 453. 

463.— CHARLOTTE OF APPLES. 

Prepare the Apple Marmalade No. i. To each 
quart of it add 2 ounces of currants, 2 ounces of 
sultanas, and i ounce of sliced almonds; flavor 
cinnamon. 

Take individual molds, butter thickly with cold 
butter; sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs, and 
press the crumbs well into the butter. Fill the 



PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 53 

centre with the firm marmalade and finish the 
top with crumbs. Set the molds in a pan with 
hot water and bake for twenty minutes. Serve 
with fruit or cream sauce. 

Anolher way is to line the molds with thin 
slices of buttered bread, cut to fit the molds, and 
fill with Apple Braise No. 32. The molds may 
also be lined with the crust No. 97 or 98, and 
filled with jam or stewed apples. 

464.— CHARLOTTE OF APPLES A LA 
WINDSOR. 

Bake in the Charlotte molds about half a.<i 
many cakes as you require puddings, from any 
plain cakes mixture. The cakes are better to cut 
if baked the day before using. Cut each cake in 
six or eight thin slices; butter and sugar the molds. 
Have ready a good apple sauce. Place one slice 
of cake in the bottom, on it one layer of apple 
sauce; then another layer of cake; apple sauce 
again, and another layer of cake, to make two or 
three layers of apples, and three or four of cake. 
The apple sauce should be of the right consistency 
to moisten the cake. Set the molds in a pan of 
water, cover a with buttered paper and bake for 
twenty-five minutes. Turn from the molds on a 
pan, so the bottom becomes the top; dust thickly 
with powdered sugar. Heat a stout wire to a 
white heat and burn a pattern on top of the 
Charlotte, lattice fashion. Serve with an English 
cream sauce, or Chaudeau with sliced almonds. 

The Charlotte may also be decorated with 
meringue with bag and star tube, or with a piping 
of bright fruit jelly, and in many other ways as 
your fancy suggests. 

465.— SOUFFLE OF APPLES. 
Take one quart of prepared Apple Marmalade 
No, I. Make a firm meringue from % pint of 
whites of eggs and 10 ounces of sugar, flavor 
lemon, and mix lightly into the marmalade. Fill 
into paper cases, or in china souffle cases; dust 
with sugar, and bake in a medium heat for 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Serve at once. 

466.— STEAMED APRICOT ROLL. 
BAKED APRICOT ROLL. 
Prepare the same way as for Steamed or Baked 
Apple Roll No. 460. 

467,— APRICOT CHARLOTTE. 
Use apricot marmalade and prepare same as 
for Apple Charlotte No. 463. 

468.— APRICOT SOUFFLE. 
PEACH SOUFFLE 
Prepare the Marmalade No. 11, and finish same 
as for Apple Souffle No. 465. Peach Souffle and 
Charlottes may be made in the same manner. 



54 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



469.— ALLIANCE PUDDING. 

Prepare the cake mixture No. 268 or 270 Bake 
three sheets; color one part chocolate, flavor cin- 
namon; color another part pink, flavor strawberry 
or raspberry, and leave the third part plain. 

Prepare the molds with butter and sugar; cut 
the cake in dice; put in alternate layers in the 
molds. 

Prepare a custard with i quart of milk, 5 eggs, 
5 ounces of sugar; flavor vanilla. Saturate the 
cake gradually with all the custard it can take up, 
Bake in water and serve with a Sauce Macedoine 
No. 432, or a clear wine sauce. 

470.— ALMOND CUSTARD PUDDING. 
Butter and sugar the pudding molds. Prepare 
a custard with 10 ounces of bread crumbs, 3 pints 
of milk, 8 yolks and 4 whole eggs, 8 ounces of 
sugar, 4 ounces of melted butter, 4 ounces of 
chopped , and browned almonds; flavor vanilla. 
Fill in the molds, and bake in water till the cus- 
tard is set, Serve with claret wine sauce. 

471.— ALMOND CREAM ROLL. 

Take paste No 85; roU into a thin sheet; fill 
with any of the almond creams Nos. in to 113, 
or with a vanilla cream, filling with almonds, and 
finish and bake same way as for the Vienna Pud- 
ding No. 449. 

The roll may also be made from the pastes Nos. 
85 and 76, and steamed or baked like the Apple 
Rolls No. 456. 

Other Cream Rolls can be made from creams 
Nos. 114 to 129. 

472.— ALMOND SOUFFLE. 

Take 8 ounces of almond paste, 4 ounces of 
crushed macaroons, 8 ounces of sugar, i pint of 
milk, 12 yolks of eggs. 

Kub the paste smooth with a little of the milk, 
■work in the yolks, sugar and macaroons; add the 
milk, and stir on the fire till it thickens. Take 
off, let cool and flavor with vanilla. Beat the 
whites of the eggs firm and draw lightly into the 
cream; fill into cases, and bake to a nice color. 
The small cases bake in twelve to fifteen minutes. 
The puddings rise about an inch above the case 
in baking, and should be served immediately when 
dooe, as the souffles fall in a short time and lose 
much of their lightness. 

For the American plan hotels the souffles may 
be prepared beforehand, but should be baked in 
small batches during the dinner hours. 

Other nut souffles may be made like the Almond 
Souffle, using half almond paste and half nuts, 
with the same ingredients. 

The pastry creams can be made into souffles of 
vanilla, chocolate, orange, etc., by adding eight 



beaten whites of eggs to one quart of the creams, 
and bake same as the other souffles. 

473.— BATTER PUDDINGS. 

A variety of Batter Puddings can be made from 
the Apple Batter Pudding No. 453, and baked in 
individual dishes; mixing the same batter with 
dates or figs, or using minced fresh or preserved 
fruit. 

The same batter may be mixed cold like a grid- 
dle batter; adding some baking powder, or beat- 
ing the white of the eggs light before adding to 
the batter. 

A sauce should be served with this pudding in 
a separate pitcher or sauceboat. 

474.— BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING, 
FAMILY STYLE. 

Cut white bread in thin slices, spread with but- 
ter and put in pudding dish. Pour over a custard, 
the same aa for pudding No. 469; bake to a nice 
color, or till the custand is set in the centre. 
Serve with wine or lemon sauce. 

475.— BOSTON BREAD PUDDING. 
Cut stale white bread in small dices; put oij: 
baking pan, and brown lightly in the oven with 
some fresh butter. Butter and sugar small pud- 
ding molds, fill half-full with the bread, and ada 
a few currants and sultanas. Saturate with a 
custard, same as for No. 474, and bake in water 
till the custard is firm. Turn from the molds and 
serve with wine sauce. 

476.— BREAD CUSTARD PUDDING. 
Take eight ounces of bread crumbs, pour over 
them a warm custard made from one quart of 
milk, three yolks, three whole eggs, two ounces of 
butter, four ounces of sugar, the grated rind of 
one lemon. Bake in small molds in water, and 
serve with a nice wine or fruit sauce. 

477.— SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT 
CUSTARD. 

Prepare the same as for the Bread Custard No. 
476. 

Grape uuts and many of the ready-to-eat break- 
fast foods may be made into Custard Puddings. 

If served in cups less eggs can be used, also less 
of the crumbs or breakfast foods. The custards 
may be served hot or cold with a spoonful of 
whipped cream. 

478.— BABA AU RUM. 
Bake the preparation No. 409 or 410 in the small 
pudding molds. Before serving, dip into a hot 
sherry wine sauce; place in saucer and cover with 
a thick English cream sauce, flavored rum. Serve 
Bs a hot or cold pudding. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



5S 



479.— BABA POLONAISE. 
Prepare same way as No. 478. Serve with sauce 
polonaise. 

480.— BISCUIT PUDDING. 

Rub through a sieve 8 ounces of dry sponge cake, 
add a few browned almonds, and flavor vanilla. 
Pour over it a custard made of i quart of milk, 4 
ounces of sugar, 8 yolks, i ounce of butter. 
Beat the whites firm and mix into the custard. 
Bake in small molds in water. Serve with vanilla 
cream sauce. 

481.— BANANA PUDDING MERINGUE. 

Bake a sheet of cake, either Sponge or Layer 
Cakes. Spread with Pastry Cream No. 127. and 
cov-?r with sliced bananas. Sprinkle with some 
good rum, and cover with Meringue Paste No. 93. 
Dust with sugar and brown nicely. Serve with 
English cream sauce, with rum — hot or cold. 

482.— BLUEBERRY ROLL, Baked or Steamed. 
BLACKBERRY ROLL, Baked or Steamed. 

Prepare the baked roll in the same manner as 
the Baked Apple Roll No. 456; the Steamed Roll 
the same as No. 460. 

483.— BLACKBERRY MERINGUE. 
BLUEBERRY MERINGUE. 
Prepare the same way as for Apple Meringue 
No. 458, wiih a compote or marmalade of fruit, 

484.— CABINET PUDDING. 

Prepare the pudding molds with butter and 
sugar. Cut some Sponge Cake or other plain cake 
in dices; half fill the molds and sprinkle with a few 
sultana raisins and currants, and some finely cut 
citron. Pouroveritacustard, saturate thoroughly, 
and bake in water. Serve with wine, cream or 
fruit sauce. 

485.— CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

^ lb. butter, j£ lb. sugar, i lb. bread crumbs, 

8 ozs. of cocoa or chocolate, X pint milk, 12 eggs, 

vanilla extract. 

Separate the eggs; cream butter and sugar same 
as for cakes. With the yolks add the cocoa, milk, 
flavor and crumbs. Beat the whites firm and mix 
together. Fill in the buttered and sugared forms, 
and bake in water. Serve with chocolate or 
vanilla cream sauce. 

486.— CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
8 ozs. farina, 2 quarts miik, 8 ozs. sugar, 

6 ozs. chocolate, 4 ozs. bnltsr, 8 yolks. 



the butter and chocolate; flavor vanilla, and stir 
in the eggs, fill in the molds and bake in water. 
Another way to make Chocolate Pudding, is to 
make the Bread-Custard Pudding No. 476, add- 
ing chocolate to the custard, and bake as usual. 

487.— COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Prepare the pudding No. 476, and add soma 
shredded cocoanut. Serve with orange or vanilla 
sauce. 

488.— CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

I quart of milk, 4 ozs. cornstarch, 5 ozs sugar, 
4 eggs, I oz. butter. 

Dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold milk; set 
milk and sugar to boil; take o& the fire and S[ir 
in the starch and butter; let cool a little, stir in 
the yolks, and flavor vanilla. Beat the white of 
the eggs about half firm and mix together. Fill 
into the prepared padding forms, and bake in 
water for about fifteen or twenty minutes, or till 
the eggs are set. 

This pudding breaks readily if heated too much 
after it is done. It should stand to set for a 
while before serving, so it can be turned from the 
mold without breaking. Serve with fruit or cream 
sauce, hot or cold. 

489.— COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Prepare like pudding No. 462; add fruit or 
raisins. Serve with wine or fruit sauce. 

490.— CABINET PUDDING A LA ROYALE. 
Butter and sugar the molds. Line with Char- 
lotte Russe crust No. 97. Fill the centre with 
peaches, cherries, and angelica cut in small dice; 
add some browned almonds or crushed macaroons. 
Fill with custard No. 160. Bake in water till the 
custard is set. Serve with chaudeau or cream 
sauce. 

491.— PUDDING A LA COMTESSE. 
Bake in the pudding molds the day before using, 
small cakes from mixture No. 249. Cut the cake 
in slices, spread each slice with raspberry or 
strawberry jam, and put together in the shape as 
they are cut. Before serving, dip the cake in a 
hot apricot sauce; put in the dish. Serve with 
Sauce Macedoine flavored with Kirschwasser or 
Maraschino. 

492.— PUDDING A LA PARISIENNE. 

Take one quart of firm apple marmalade, flavor 

with the grated rind of one lemon, and while 

warm mix with two ounces of butter and six yolks. 

Beat up four whites of eggs and mix together. 



Let the milk and sugar come to a boil, add the Bake in individual dishes or cups, or bake in 
farina and stir constantly; let boil slow iill the paper cases. Decorate with a meringue and soma 
farina forms a thick mush; take off the fire, add fruit jelly, and serve. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



56 

493.— ALEXANDRA PUDDING. 
8 ozs. bread crumbs, i quart milk, 2 ozs. butter, 
the grated rind of i lemon, 8 yolks of egg, 6 
whites of egg, 4 ozs. browned and chopped almonds, 

Prepare same as for pudding No. 476. Steam 
or bake in water; turn from the molds, and serve 
with a nice strawberry or raspberry sauce, or 
pour over a diluted fruit jam. 

494.— COLLEGE PUDDING. 
2 lbs. white bread crumbs, 8 ozs. beef suet, 
% pint of milk, ^ lb. currants, 4 ozs. sugar, 
the grated rind of i lemon, 5 eggs, %, a nutmeg, 
grated, % lb. citron and orange peel chopped fine, 
a pinch of salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients, add eggs and milk; 
steam or boil for two to three hours; cut in slices 
and serve with wine or lemon sauce. 

495.— CUMBERLAND PUDDING. 
2 lbs. bread crumbs, % lb. flour, 1% lb. suet, 
I lb. apples, peeled and cut in dice, yi lb. currants, 
^ lb. seeded raisins, 12 ozs. sugar, % pint milk, 
the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 10 eggs, 
a pinch of soda, a pinch of salt, i grated nutmeg. 
Mix the dry ingredients; add salt and soda to 
the milk, and mix all together. Steam in largo 
molds, or in cups. Serve with wine or brandy 
sauce. 

496.— COCOANUT SUET PUDDING. 
2 lbs. crumbs, y% lb. flour, i lb. cocoanut, i Ib.sugar, 
lyi lb. chopped su6t, Yz teaspoon baking powder, 
4 ozs. orange peel chopped fine, flavor of mace, 
about one pint of milk, a pinch of salt, 8 eggs. 
Mix the dry ingredients and the baking powder 
in the flour. Add more or less milk (which de- 
pends on the dryness of the crumbs). Steam or 
boil for two hours. Serve with wine cream sauce 
or orange cream sauce. 

497.— STEAMED CHERRY PUDDING. 
Prepare same as for Cocoanut Suet Pudding 
No. 496, except add one pound or more of 
cherries cut in halves, and leave out the cocoanut 
and peel. 

498 —STEAMED CHERRY ROLL. 
BAKED CHERRY ROLL. 
Prepare same as for Apple Roll in No. 456 or 
No. 460, except use cherry jam No. 10. 
499,— CRANBERRY ROLL. 
Prepare same as for Apple Roll No. 456 or 
No. 460, except use a compote of cranberry No. 
44, or cranberry jelly No. 20. 

500.— STEAMED CITRON PUDDING. 



501.— STEAMED DATE PUDDING. 

Prepare same as for Cocoanut Suet Pudding 
No. 496, except omit the cocoanut, and add i^ 
pounds of dates cut in small pieces. 

A nice combination can be made with cocoanut, 
orange peel, figs and dates in smaller quantities, 
after the same recipe. 

Serve with a nice cream or wine sauce. 

502.— PUDDING A LA COBURG. 
I lb. crumbs, % lb. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 12 eggs, 
4 ozs. currants, 4 ozs. sultanas, 4 ozs. orange peel, 
4 ozs. citron, ^ pint of milk, a little nutmeg, 
a pinch of salt. 
Separate the eggs; cream butter and sugar with 
the yolks; add milk and crumbs, also the fruit 
and peel. Beat the whites firm and draw in 
lightly. Fill into forms. Steam or bake in 
water for one hour. Serve with English rum 
sauce No. 419. 

503.— DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. BAKED. 
Butter the molds and decorate with slices of 
citron, or cherries and angelica. Dust with sugar. 
Fill the forms with alternate layers of cake cut 
in dice, and preserved fruits; the top layer to be 
cake. Soak with custard, as much as the cake 
can take up. Bake in water. Serve with a clear 
maraschino sauce. 

504.— DIPLOMAT PUDDING. STEAMED. 
I lb. crumbs, i lb. flour, i lb. suet chopped fine, 
12 ozs. sugar, 8 eggs, 8 ozs. apples cut in dice, 
4 ozs. sliced almonds, 4 ozs. cherries cut in quarters, 
X teaspoon of soda, pinch of salt, milk to mix, 
the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Mix the dry ingredients, add milk and eggs. 
Steam in large or small molds. Serve with a 
clear rum or brandy sauce. 

505.— EVE'S PUDDING. 
Prepare mixture No. 496 without the cocoanut; 
add one pound of sultanas and one pound of 
apples cut in dice. Steam and serve with wine 
cream sauce. 

506.— FARINA CUSTARD PUDDING. 
4 quarts of milk i lb. farina, 8 ozs. butter, 
I lb. sugar, 12 eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, 
a little ground mace, a pinch of salt. 
Set three quarts of the milk to boil with the 
sugar. When it comes to the boil, sprinkle in the 
farina, stirring constantly, and boil slowly to a 
soft mush. Take from the fire; add the butter 
and salt. Make the eggs and the remaining quart 
of milk into a custard, add the flavor and mix 



Prepare same as for Cocoanut Suet Pudding gradually with the farina; add a little more milk. 
No. 496, except omit the cocoanut, and add lyi if required. Fill into the prepared molds and 
pounds (or only one pound) of finely-cut citron. bake in water till the eggs are set. Let stand for 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 57 



some time after baking, before turning from the 
molds. Serve with wine or fruit sauce. 

507.— FARINA A LA NAPOLITAINE. 
Make the above mixture with eighteen ounces 
of farina, and use eighteen yolks instead of 
whole eggs. When the mixture is ready, divide in 
three parts. Color one part with chocolate, flavor 
vanilla; one part pink, flavor raspberry; and flavor 
the other part orange or lemon, leave plain. Beat 
twelve whites of eggs firm, and divide in three 
parts and mix with the farina. Fill the mixture 
in alternate layers into the forms, and bake in 
water, same as directed in No. 506. Serve with 
sauce macedoine, or with sauce polonaise. 

508.— FARINA FRUIT PUDDING. 
Prepare the Pudding No. 506, with three quarts 
of milk. When the mixture is ready, add one 
pound of sultanas, one-half pound of currants, 
four ounces of lemon and citron peel cat fine. 
Bake in small molds in water. Serve with wine 
or brandy sauce. 

509 —FARINA CAKE. 
Make mixture No. 508, without the fruit. Fill 
into a square cake pan about one and a half inches 
deep. Bake to a nice color. Cut in squares or 
slices, and serve with wine or fruit sauce. 

510.— FLORADORA PUDDING. STEAMED 

Add to the pudding mixture No. 496 one pound 
of sliced pineapple cut in dice. Steam and serve 
English cream sauce with sliced almonds. 
511.- FLORADORA MERINGUE. 

Bake a sheet of white layer cake No. 273 or 
No. 274. Spread with pastry cream No. 128, and 
on top of the cream one layer of Floradora 
Cream No. 157. Cover with meringue. Brown 
nicely and cut in squares. Serve hot or cold with 
cream sauce. 

512.— STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 
2 lbs. crumbs, }i lb. flour, ^ lb. sugar, i lb. suet, 
8 eggs, I lb. raisins, i lb. currants, }i lb. mixed peel, 
% oz. baking powder, \i oz. mixed spice, salt. 

Mix with milk, and steam same as directed in 
No. 496. 

513.— STEAMED FIG PUDDING. 

Prepare mixture No. 496; leave out the cocoa- 
nut, and add one and a half pounds of figs cut in 
dice. Serve with hard or brandy sauce. 

514.— STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

(CAKE MIXTURE.) 

I lb. sugar, i lb. butter, 10 eggs, 2 lbs. flour, 

J4 oz. baking powder, ^ pint milk, i lb. raisins, 

I lb. currants, % lb. mixed peel, mace or nutmeg, 

the grated rind of one lemon, salt. 



Cream butter and sugar; sift the baking powder 
in the flour and mix like a fruit cake mixture. 
Steam in large or small molds, buttered and 
dusted with flour. Cover with buttered paper 
and serve with a nice sauce. 

The same mixture may be made into a very 
light and white pudding, using three-quarters of 
a pint of whites of eggs, and a little more milk; 
leaving out the whole eggs. 

For variety, only sultana raisins may be used, 
or citron, figs and dates, cocoanut, almonds, 
French fruit glaces, etc. 

51s.— STEAMED POUND PUDDING. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING (Rich). 

i^ lb. sugar, \% lb. butter, 20 eggs, 2 lbs. flour, 

}i a nutmeg, grated; ^ teaspoon baking powder, 

the grated rind of two lemons. 

Mix like pound cake and steam as directed in 
No. 514. 

This pudding is richer than the steamed fruit 
pudding No. 514, but may be used as a fruit pud- 
ding, adding about two pounds of fruit to the 
mixture; leaving out the baking powder, and 
steam as usual. 

516.— GERMAN CREAM PUDDING. 
LEMON PUDDING (GERMAN). 
ORANGE PUDDING (GERMAN). 

1 lb. flour, I quart milk, 1 lb. butter, 
10 ozs. sugar, 20 yolks, 12 whites of eggs, 

the grated rind of one lemon, a little mace. 

Put one pint of milk on the fire with the sugar 
and eight ounces of the butter; let come to a boil 
and stir in the sifted flour to form a smooth paste. 
Take off the fire, stir in the rest of the butter, 
and add gradually the yolks and milk. Beat the 
whites up firm, and add to the mixture with the 
flavor. Fill into the prepared molds and bake in 
water. Serve with a nut-cream or wine sauce. 

From the same mixture a nice LEMON or 
ORANGE PUDDING can be made, adding the 
rind and juice of the fruit. Use three or four 
lemons or oranges to this mixture, and serve with 
a nice sauce. 

517.— INDIAN PUDDING. BAKED. 

2 quarts of milk, % pint of molasses, 6 eggs, 
4 ozs. butter, 8 ozs. white cornmeal, salt, 
X teaspoon cinnamon, y^ teaspoon ginger, 

the grated rind of one lemon. 
Let the milk and butter come to a boil, sprinkle 
in the meal and let simmer for ten minutes; take 
o&, let cool a little; add the molasses, the beaten 
eggs, salt and spices; a little more milk, if too dry. 
Put in buttered pan and bake slowly till set in the 
centre. Serve with maple syrup sauce. 



58 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKKS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



518. INDIAN CUSTARD PUDDING, 

NEW ORLEANS STYLE. 

2 quarts of milk, 4 ozs, cornmeal, 4 ozs. farina, 

5 ozs. butter, 5 ozs. New Orleans molasses, 

the grated rind or juice of one orange or lemon, 

5 yolks, 5 whole eggs, a pinch of salt. 

Let milk come to a boil, add the farina and 

meal, also the butter; let boil slowly till the meal 

is well cooked; take o5 and let cool a little; beat 

in the molasses, orange rind and juice, eggs and 

salt. Fill into small individual molds, battered 

and sugared. Bake in water till the eggs are set; 

turn out and serve with orange cream sauce. 

519.— BAKED INDIAN FRUIT PUDDING. 

STEAMED INDIAN FRUIT PUDDING. 
2 quarts of milk, 10 ozs. white cornmeal, 10 eggs, 
I lb. suet and i lb. apples chopped fine, salt, 
8 ozs. sugar, %, pint molasses, % lb. raisins, 
% lb. currants, 34" teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon 
ginger, tho grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one- half a nutmeg, grated. 
Set milk and sugar to boil; when boiling, add 
the meal and let boil slowly for ten minutes; take 
off and mix in the other ingredients. Fill into 
molds. Bake for one hour, or steam for two 
hours. Serve with brandy, cream or lemon sauce. 

520.— JENNY LIND PUDDING. 
Take plain sponge cake, cut in slices as wide as 
the pudding molds. Butter and sugar the molds; 
put one slice of cake in the bottom, then put in a 
layer of chopped almonds and cocoanut, slightly 
browned; then another layer of cake, and con- 
tinue till the mold is nearly filled, finishing the 
top with cake. Pour over this a custard; let 
saturate thoroughly and bake in water. Serve 
with Chaudeau or wine cream sauce. 

521.— LEMON PUDDING. STEAMED. 
ORANGE PUDDING. STEAMED. 
Prepare the mixture No. 496, except leave out 
the cocoanut; add the grated rind of three 
lemons or oranges, also the juice; leave out the 
baking powder, and add one-half teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in milk. Steam as usual, and 
serve with a rich sauce. 



the whites of the eggs beaten firm. Fill souffle 
molds, or into paper cases; dust with powdered 
sugar and bake. 

Like the other souffles, this souffle should be 
served at once. 

Other Lemon and Orange Puddings may be 
made with the mixture No. 476, adding the 
grated rinds of two lemons or oranges, and serving 
lemon or orange sauce. 

523.— LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING. 
ORANGE MERINGUE PUDDING. 
Bake a. sheet of layer cake, or plain sponge 
cake; spread thickly with lemon cream No. 119; 
cover with meringue No. 93. Serve hot or cold, 
with a cream or wine sauce. 

By using the orange filling No. 118, it will make 
an Orange Meringue Pudding. 

524,— NELSON PUDDING. 

PUDDING A LA NELSON. 
Line buttered molds with Ladyfingers cut to 
fit. Fill the center with cake cut in dice, and 
minced fruit consisting of sultanas, cherries and 
citron. Pour over a vanilla custard; let soak well, 
and bake in water. Serve with wine or fruit sauce. 

525.— NONPAREIL PUDDING. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

2 quarts of bread crumbs, 2 quarts of milk 

8 ozs, sugar, 8 ozs. butter, a little nutmeg or mace, 

the grated rind of one lemon, 10 yolks. 

Prepare same as for Bread Custard Pudding 
No. 476. Bake in a shallow square pan, about 
\yi inches deep. 

While the pudding is baking, prepare a meringue 
from the whites and ten ounces of powdered sugar. 
As soon as the custard is set spread it over the 
pudding (reserve a part of it), mark the top in 
squares of one portion each. With bag and tube 
form a ring on each square with the remaining 
meringue, dust with sugar and bake to a nice 
brown. When done, fill each ring with jelly or 
fruit jam; cut the pudding in squares. Serve 
with cream or wine sauce. 

526.— NEAPOLITAN PUDDING. 
Prepare the pudding No. 476, divide in three 
parts. Color one part chocolate, flavor vanilla; 
The cake pudding mixture No. 515 may be used another part pink, flavor strawberry; leave the 

other part plain, flavor with lemon or orange. 
Fill into the prepared molds in alternate layers. 
Bake in water, and serve with a clear wine or 
maraschino sauce. 



in the same manner. 
522 



LEMON SOUFFLE. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 
I lb. bread crumbs, i quart of milk, 4 ozs. butter, 
10 ozs. sugar, 8 eggs, 2 lemons (or 2 oranges). 
Grate the rind on the bread crumbs; let the 
milk and sugar come to a boil, and mix gradually 
with the crumbs, adding the butter. Let cool a 



527.— GERMAN NOODLE PUDDING. 
Prepare the paste No. 99, with four yolks and 
three whole eggs. Roll out into very thin sheets, 
let dry and cut in very fine shreds. Put two 



little; add the juice of the fruit, the yolks and quarts of milk to boil with eight ounces of sugar 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



59 



sprinkle in the dry noodles. Let simmer slowly 
till half of the milk is absorbed; add four ounces 
of batter, one quart of milk, eight eggs well 
beaten, a pinch of salt; flavor lemon and nutmeg, 
or vanilla. Fill into the prepared form, bake in 
water till the custard is set. Serve with fruit 
sauce. 

528.— VERMICELLI PUDDING. 
MACARONI PUDDING. 

Take eight ounces of vermicelli or macaroni 
and drop it into a pot of boiling water for a 
couple of minutes, till it becomes soft. Take o£f 
the fire, strain off the water; let cold water run 
on it in the strainer for a few minutes. Put on 
the fire with one quart of milk, and let simmer 
till the milk is absorbed. 

Prepare a custard with one quart of milk, eight 
ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, eight eggs, 
and flavor like No. 527, and finish in the same 
manner. Sultana raisins or currants may be 
added, or sliced and browned almonds. Serve 
with a compote of fruit, or a fruit sauce. 
529.— NOODLE CAKE. 

VERMICELLI CAKE. 

Prepare the paste same as for the pudding No. 
528. 

Or, parboil one pound of vermicelli; simmer 
with two quarts of milk till well thickened. Mix 
into it eight ounces of sugar, six ounces of butter, 
four ounces of currants, four ounces of sultanas, 
the grated rind of one lemon, a little mace, a 
pinch of salt, and twelve yolks of eggs. Beat 
eight whites to a firm froth and draw in lightly. 
Take a square cake pan, butter and sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, and fill with the mixture about 1% 
inch of thickness; bake to a nice color Serve, 
cut in squares, with a hot fruit sauce, or a com- 
pote of fruit. 

530.— PUDDING A LA REINE. 

Take one quart of light cake crumbs; pour over 
one quart of boiling milk; add four ounces of 
crusted almonds, two ounces of butter, ten yolks; 
flavor vanilla. Beat five whites firm, and mix into 
the batter. Bake in buttered molds in water. 
Serve with a pineapple sauce, or sauce macedoine. 
531.— PUDDING, QUEEN VICTORIA STYLE. 

Prepare same as for No. 530; add candied pine- 
apple cut in dice, some sultana raisins, and some 
candied orange peel cut in very thin shreds. 
Bake, and serve with almond cream sauce, with 
sliced almonds, flavored with mm. 

532.— PUDDING ROMANOFF. 
2 quarts milk, 6 ozs. rice flour, 10 ozs. sugar, 
6 ozs. butter, 12 eggs, 8 ozs. blanched chestnuts, 
4 ozs. sultanas, 2 ozs. angelica, 2 ozs. apricots, 
4 ozs, browned almonds, 2 ozs. candied cherries, 



Found the almonds and chestnuts to a soft 
paste, and dilute with some milk. Let milk and 
sugar ccme to a boil, add the butter and the rice 
flour (which should be dissolved in a part of the 
cold milk). Stir till it thickens, and take off the 
fire. Add the nut paste and the yolks of the eggs, 
and mix in the fruit. Last, put in the whites of 
the eggs, beaten firm; fill into the prepared molds 
and bake in water. Serve with wine cream sauce. 

533.— PLUM PUDDING. 
2 lbs. bread crumbs, ij^ lb. finely-chopped suet, 
8 ozs. flour, 1% lb. sugar, 12 eggs, 1 pint milk, 
X pint rum or brandy, i lb. sultana raisins, salt, 
I lb. malaga raisins, seeded and cut in halves, 
I lb. currants, 8 ozs. mixed citron and orange peel, 
% oz. cinnamon, ^ oz. mixed allspice and nutmeg, 
the grated rind and juice of two lemons, 
X teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix the dry ingredients and add the liquids. 
Add a little more milk, if the mixture should be 
too firm. Steam in molds, or boil in cloths (steam- 
ing is much preferable to boiling). Divide into 
four puddings, and steam or boil for three to four 
hours. 

534.— ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 
X lb. crumbs, 2 lbs. raisins, % pint molasses, 
}i pint milk, i lb. flour, i lb. currants, 6 eggs, 
I lb. suet, ^ lb. citron, 1 oz. mixed spices, 
I lb. sugar, ^ lb. lemon and orange peel, 
a pinch of soda, a little salt. 

Mix and steam the same as for No. 533. Serve 
with hard or brandy sauce, or with sauce No, 419. 

Individual plum puddings may be steamed in 
small dome-shaped pudding molds. 

For special occasions plum puddings should be 
served with a spray of holly in the top, a little 
good rum or brandy poured around the base, set 
afire and sent to table blazing. 

The sauce may be served on the side, in a 
special dish or sauce boat. 

535.— STEAMED PEACH PUDDINC, 
FAMILY STYLE. 

Prepare paste No. 86. Roll out into a round 
sheet; fill the center with a compote of peaches, 
fold the paste over, tie into a pudding cloth (which 
should be well buttered and dusted with flour), in 
the form of a round ball. Leave some room to 
swell, and boil for one hour. Serve with a wine 
sauce and sliced peaches. 

536.— PEACH ROLL. STEAMED. 
Use pastes Nos. 85 to 87, with fresh or pre- 
served peaches, and prepare same as for Apple 
Roll No. 460. Serve with a rich cream sauce. 

537.— PEACH ROLL. BAKED. 
Use pastes Nos. 76 to 79, and prepare same 
way as for other baked rolls. 



6o 



PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK Or BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



538.— STEAMED PEACH DUMPLINGS. 
BAKED PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Use large peaches; remove the stones, fill cen- 
ter with sugar, and proceed same as for steamed 
or baked Apple Dumplings. (SeeNos. 457 and 461.) 

539.— PEACH MERINGUE, MANHATTAN. 
Bake a square sheet of layer cake (Nos. 268 to 
275) Spread over a layer of almond pastry 
cream; and on top of the cream place a compote 
of peaches. Cover with a meringue No. 93, dust 
with sugar, and brown lightly. Cut in squares, 
decorate each square with currant jelly; serve 
with sauce No. 419. 



540.— PEACH COTTAGE PUDDING. 
PEACH BATTER PUDDING. 
Prepare same as for the Batter Pudding No, 473. 

541.— PEACH COBBLER. 
Prepare same way as No. 454. 

542.— PEACH CHARLOTTE. 
Prepare same way as Nos. 463 or 464. 

543.— PEACH TURNOVER. 
PEACH RISSOLES. 
Prepare same way as directed in Nos. 388 and 
389, and serve with cream or hard sauce. 

S44'.— RAMEQUIN PUDDING. 
CHEESE PUDDING. 
CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
2% lbs. dry curd, 8 ozs. sugar, 10 yolks of eggs, 
I lb. sultanas, 8 ozs. currants, 4 ozs. citron, 
4 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. cornstarch, a little cinnamon, 
the grated rind of one lemon. 
Rub the curd through a sieve, mix with the 
sugar, the yolks, melted butter and fruit, and dust 
in the cornstarch, and add the flavor. Butter the 
molds thickly with cold butter, fill with crumbs, 
press the crumbs well on the sides and bottom, 
and shake out the surplus. Fill with the cheese 
mixture, and bake in water. Serve with wine or 
brandy sauce. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE : The same, with only a 
part of the fruit, and ten whites beaten to a froth, 
may be made into a Cheese SoufSe, baked in cups, 
or in paper cases. 



RICE PUDDINGS. 
545.— RICE BOILED IN WATER. 
Wash the rice a couple of times in cold water. 
Put a large pot on the fire, holding about two gal- 
lons of water, let come to a boil; drop in the rice, 
and let boil for about half an hour, or till you 
can crush the grains between the fingers. Strain 
off the water. 



546.— PLAIN BOILED RICE. 

Add to each quart of the rice boiled in water 
(No. 545) one quart of milk, and let simmer down, 
on a slow fire, till it tickens. 

The rice, while it is still warm, may be pressed 
in wetted molds or cups and let cool, and may be 
served cold, turned from the molds, with cream 
and sugar. 

547.— RICE PUDDING WITH APPLES. 

Prepare a compote of sliced apples. Boil eight 
ounces of rice with milk till it is soft and of a 
creamy consistency. Make a quart of custard, 
with one quart of milk, six ounces of sugar, 
eight yolks; flavor with the grated rind of half a 
lemon and some mace. Mix the custard with the 
rice. Fill the rice custard and apples in alternate 
layers in the pudding dish. Have bottom and top 
rice. Bake till the custard is set, and serve with 
wine or cream sauce. 

For small individual puddings, serve in the dish 
the puddings are baked in, with sweetened and 
flavored whipped cream. Serve hot or cold. 

548.— BAKED RICE PUDDING. 
Butter a large pudding pan which holds one 
gallon. Wash one pound of rice; put it in the 
pan with eight ounces of sugar and half a grated 
nutmeg. Fill the pan nearly full of milk, set in 
the oven and bake slowly for two hours or more. 
If the pudding colors before the rice is done, 
cover with buttered paper. Serve with wine, 
cream or fruit sauce. 

549.— GERMAN RICE PUDDING. 

Wash well one pound of rice, and boil slowly 
in one gallon of milk till soft; add four ounces of 
bu*ter and a little salt. (The rice should be of 
soft creamy consistency, not too thick.) Add 
more milk, if required. Fill into the small indi- 
vidual china dishes, nearly full. Sift over a 
thick layer of sugar and cinnamon, to form a 
crust, and serve in this manner. 

The pudding should be soft enough to require 
no other sauce. 

The same pudding may be served hot or cold, 
without the cinnamon and sugar, but with sweet- 
ened whipped cream flavored vanilla. 

550.— RICE CUSTARD PUDDING. 
Steam or boil one pound of rice with thr^a 
quarts of milk till soft. Prepare a custard with 
one quart of milk, ten to twelve eggs, eight 
ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt; flavor lemon 
and mace. Stir the custard in the boiled rice 
with six ounces of butter; fill into the prepared 
pudding molds, and bake in water till the custard 
is set. Turn out of the molds and serve with 
sultana, wine, cream or fruit sauce. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 6t 

S5I-— RICE WITH PEACHES. diamonds, with fruit or sultana sauce, or with a 

PEACHES A LA CONDE, compote of fruit of any kind. 

APRICOTS A LA CONDE. _ 

PEARS A LA CONDE. 557--PLAIN RICE WITH FRUIT. 

Prepare the rice custard No. 550. Butter and ^'^^^'^ ^^^ P'^'° *'°"^'* ""= 1^' ""^ '""'' '''°- 

sugar the molds, and place in the bottom of each °^' '*°''° "«"= ^^' "^"^^^ °' ""^^^'^ '^"P^ "■'*' 

mold half of a tender peach, fresh or preserved. T!". ^°^ 'P"°'''* "'"" '"^"- ^'" "' " 

and fill with the rice custard. Bake in water till ^.°''^^ "<=« ="'' !«' ^^^^ '" ^ ''"'" P'^'^^ *°' ^"""^ 

the custard is done. Turn out of the mold so *™''' *'" ""* "<=« =«*"" '^° ="^«= '"'° °°' ^""^ 

the fruit appears on the top of the pudding when ^^'J° ""'' ^°''=° «=°'°P°t« °^ P™°«^ °' ^^ "'''^ 
served. Serve with a nice peach sauce. 

APRICOTS are served with rice in the same 558-— ROYAL PUDDING, 

manner. I lb. sponge or pound cake crumbs, 2 quarts milk, 

PEARS should be served in an oval mold. ^ yolks and 6 whole eggs, 4 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. sugar, 

SSa.-RICE, NEAPOLITAN STYLE. 8 ozs. browned and crushed almonds, vanilla flavor. 

Prepare same as for No. 476, and serve with 

Prepare the rice custard No. S5o- Havd it gau^e No. 438. 
rather firm. Divide in three parts, add a few 

more yolks to one part, flavor orange; color one 559-— SUET PUDDING. ENGLISH, 

part with raspberry or strawberry jelly and some ^^ 'b. bread crumbs, % lb. suet chopped fine, 

carmine; the other part color chocolate, or a dark ^ ozs. flour, i lb. sugar, i lb. sultanas, 8 eggs, 

nut caramel. Put into the molds in layers. Serve }^ ^^- currants, 4 ozs. citron, ^ nutmeg grated, 

with sultana or sauce polonaise. ^ P'°' milk, a pinch of soda, a pinch of salt, 

_ _ _ the finely-chopped peel and iuice one lemon and 

553.— PORTO RICO RICE PUDDING. J ff y J 1^0 "uo icmon ana 

■rZ , , , . . , , , one orange. 

Prepare the rice custard, and mix with powdered »»• j 1 «,..■■,. 

'^' *^ Mix and steam same way as for fruit pudding. 

nr^rt^ n." riiliifAiH r^hnr^r^l'ttA Hfylra «ie nana I onri * t. 



Serve with hard and brandy sauce. 



cocoa or diluted chocolate. Bake as usual, and 
serve with vanilla cream sauce; or serve cold with 
a border of whipped cream sauce. 560. — SUET PUDDING (Lemon and Orange). 

534.-ENGLISH RICE PUDDING with Fruit. P«P"e the mixture No. 539. without the fruit. 

add the grated rmd and juice of three lemons or 



Prepare a firm rice custard and add four 
ounces of sultanas, four ounces of currants, two 



oranges, a little less of the milk, a pinch of salt. 

, . , , , J . I Separate the eggs, add the whites beaten to a 

ounces of crushed brown almonds, two ounces of . .. , . . ^ . , , 

, . , ,- , irotn, and steam as usual. Serve with lemon or 
orange peel, and two ounces of citron peel finely 

„ , _.,, r , orange cream sauce, 
cut; flavor mace and cinnamon. Fill into forms 

and bake like other custards. Serve with brandy 561.— SAGO PUDDING. 

sauce. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

555.— STEAMED RICE AND FRUIT PUD- ^°^^ puddings may be prepared after the same 

DINGS. formula. The sago should be washed and soaked 

Prepare two quarts of boiled rice No. 545, and for some time, or over night, in milk or water. It 

let simmer with one quart of milk, till it is all may be steamed, or slowly boiled, till the grains 

absorbed. are transparent; and it may be baked like plain 

Take six ounces of sugar, eight ounces of sul- rice pudding, 

tanas. 4 ounces of currants, four ounces of mixed When the sago has steamed or boiled sufficient, 

citron and orange peel, the grated rind of one and is clear, custard, sugar and butter may be 

lemon, a pinch of salt, eight ounces of cold butter, added, and the pudding finished like other custard 

ten egg-yolks; flavor mace puddings, with and without fruit, and baked till 

Chop the butter fine into some flour, mix all thq the custard is set. 

dry ingredients into the rice, add the butter and Avery light pudding in obtained by beating the 

the beaten yolks, fill in large or small pudding whites to a froth, adding them the last thing before 

molds. Steam for one hour. Serve with a cream baking, 

sauce, flavored rum. 562.— PLAIN TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

556. — RICE CAKES. Soak one pound of tapioca in one quart of 

Prepare the rice custard No 550 and bake in a water or milk for three hours, or over night. Set 

square pan same as for Farina Cake No. 509. one quart of milk to boil with eight ounces of 

Raisins, currants and other fruit cut in dice may sugar. When it boils add the soaked tapioca and 

be added, for variety. Serve cut in squares or let simmer till clear; take off the fire, stir in four 



62 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, the grated rind 
of half a lemon, and mix into it one pint of milk 
into which ten yolks have been beaten. Last, 
add the whites beaten firm; fill into the prepared 
molds, and bake till the eggs are set. Let stand 
and cool a little before turning out of the molds. 
Serve with fruit or cream sauce. 

563.— TAPIOCA WITH APPLES OR 
PEACHES. 

Soak one pound of tapioca over night in two 
quarts of milk. Peel and core some tart apples 
of small si^e. Take individual dishes; put one 
apple in each dish; fill the core with sugar, a little 
powdered cinnamon; adding a small piece of but- 
ter. Cover the apple with the soaked tapioca; 
add a little more milk, if too dry; put in the oven 
and bake till the apples are soft. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

Use PEACHES in the same manner. 

The pudding may be made in large pans, with 
a. compote of peaches or apples; or a richer 
tapioca custard may be used to cover the fruit, 
isstead of the plain tapioca or sago. 

564.— TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 
Prepare the pudding as directed in No. 562, 
with one more pint of milk, and bake in cups. 
Serve with whipped cream flavored vanilla. 

56s.— TAPIOCA CAKE. 
SAGO CAKE. 
Prepare the pudding No. 562, with one pint 
less of milk. Bake same as for the Farina Cake 
No. 509, and serve with fruit or cream sauce. 

566.— SAVARIN PUDDING A LA MONT- 
MORENCY, 

Savarin pudding should be baked in the small 
round molds with a centre tube. If these forms 
are not at hand, it is best to bake the mixture in 
wide mufiSn rings, or in shallow round molds, and 
after they are baked cut out the centre with a 
cutter or apple corer. 

Bake the pudding from the mixture No. 408. 

Prepare a macedoioe of French fruits. Take 
four ounces of pineapple, four ounces of apricots, 
four ounces of cherries, and four ounces of green 
plums or figs; cut the fruit in small dice, let sim- 
mer in a light syrup till soft; flavor with noyeau 
or kirschwasser. Fill the macedoine in the centre 
of the pudding, which should soak well in the 
syrup, and serve. 

567.— SAVARIN PUDDING, RICHELIEU. 

Prepare the pudding same as No. 566; dip in a 
strong maraschino syrup, cover with a thick wine 
cream sauce, and fill the centre with a compote 
ot strawberries. Serve hot or cold. 



568.— SAVARIN PUDDING, MAZARIN. 
Serve same as No. 567, except use a compote 
of pineapple in place of strawberries. Decorate 
with cherries and angelica. Serve hot or cold. 

569.— SAVARIN PUDDING. PLAIN. 

Bake a sponge cake mixture (Nos. 244 to 250) 
in the savarin molds. Serve with sauce polonaise 
or macedoine. 

The puddings may also be soaked in a a wine 
sauce, and covered with an English cream sauce 
with rum. 

570.— TIMBALE, MADISON. 

Prepare the savarin or baba mixture; bake in 
high timbale molds, dip in sherry wine sauce, and 
serve with sauce macedoine. 

Another way to serve it, is to bake a light 
sponge cake mixture in the timbale molds, hollow 
out the cake and fill with minced fruit. Ice the 
pudding with fondant; decorate and serve cola 
with whipped cream. 

571.— TIMBALE, LAFAYETTE. 
Make the plain savarin mixture, with some 
almonds added. Bake in the high timbale molds. 
Before serving, saturate with a lemon sauce 
flavored rum, and serve with English cream 
sauce. 

572.— TIMBALE OF FRUIT, COMTESSE 
Line a buttered timbale mold with the paste 
No. 82. Lay out the form with buttered paper, 
and fill with dry beans or crumbs. Bake the 
crust to a nice color. Take out the beans and 
paper, and fill with a farm compote of fruit of 
any kind. Turn from the mold so the bottom 
becomes the top. Cover with a thick fruit sauce, 
or a diluted marmalade, and serve. 

573.— TIMBALE MARTIN. 
Bake from mixture No. 247 or No. 248 as many 
cakes as you require puddings, in the timbale 
forms. Let cool; or, better, bake the day before 
using. Cut each of the cakes into eight slices. 
Leave top and bottom slice whole, and cut the 
other slices into rings. Spread the bottom slice 
with fruit jam; then place the rings one above the 
other, fastening them together with jam. Fill thp 
centre with a rich pastry cream with almonds, 
flavor vanilla. Put on the top piece; fasten with 
jam. Set the molds in a pan of water to heat 
for ten minutes; turn from the molds and serve 
with cream sauce with sliced almonds. 

574.— TIMBALE, WALDORF. 

Prepare the timbale same as in No. 573. Fill 

the centre with a compote of pineapple and 

oranges; turn out and mask with meringue No. 

93, with bas and star tube. Dust lightly with 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS 

Serve with 



6j 



combination with fruits and cake, and for this 
reason I have placed some of them in the part of 
Frozen Creams. 

578.— COLD CABINET PUDDING. 
3 pints of rich milk, 12 yolks, 8 ozs. sugar, 
2 ozs. gelatin, 8 ozs. sultanas, 6 ozs. currants, 
2 ozs. cherries, 2 ozs. pineapple, a little mace, 
the grated rind of one lemon. 
Cut the candied fruit in dice, and with the 
raisins and currants, let simmer in a pint of light 
syrup or wine sauce till all the liquid is taken up 



sugar, and color nicely in the oven 
a border of preserved strawberries. 

575.— VIENNA PUDDING, EMPRESS. 
I quart milk, i lb. bread crumbs, 6 ozs. butter, 
6 ozs. crushed almonds, 8 eggs, 5 ozs. sugar, 
the grated rind of one lemon. 
Let the milk come to a boil; pour over the 
bread and set aside to cool; then stir in the but- 
ter, sugar and almonds, the lemon rind and 
beaten eggs. Fill in the molds and bake in 
vater till done. 

For the sauce, take the apricot or plum marma- by the fruit, then let cool. Soak the gelatin in a 
lade No. 11 or No. 12, dilute with sherry wine; little cold water. When soft strain oft the water 
add four ounces of currants and sultanas, four and put the gelatin aside. 

ounces of shredded almonds, and two ounces of Prepare the cake same way as for Baked Cabi- 
orange peel cut in thin shreds; let simmer till the net Pudding No. 484, and moisten with a little 
fruit is soft. Pour this sauce over the pudding and sherry wine or syrup. Fill into the molds (which 
se^ye. require no butter for this pudding) in layers with 

the soaked fruit. Let the milk and sugar come 
near to the boiling point; stir in the yolks; take 
ofi whgn it begins to thicken; add flavor and 
gelatin, and strain. Four the custard over the 
caka in the molds, let soak in thoroughly, and set 
in the ice box till the gelatin is well set. Un- 
mold the puddings by dipping in hot water for a 
moment; turn out on dish. Serve with whipped 
cream, or with a cold fruit sauce. 



576.— YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

This pudding does not properly belong to the 
class of sweet puddings served with the pastry. 
It is a batter pudding without sweetening, served 
generally with roast beef. The batter pudding 
No. 453, without sugar, baked in a buttered 
square pan, makes an excellent pudding for this 
purpose, and some chefs use plain mixture as 
given here: 

Three-quarters of a pound of flour, one quart 
of milk, ten eggs, three ounces of melted butter, 
a little salt, grated nutmeg. 

Separate the eggs, and warm the milk lightly. 
Have the flour well sifted. Add about half of the 
milk to the flour and beat smooth, then add the 
yolks, butter and nutmeg, and gradually the rest 
of the milk; then add the beaten whites, and mix 
thoroughly. Bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. 



577-COLD PUDDINGS AND SIDE DISHES. 

A large variety of puddings are classed under 
this heading; and for restaurant service these 
cold dishes are very useful, because they may be 
kept on hand and in good condition for some time; 
while the hot puddings lose much in quality stand- 
ing after they are ready. 

It is necessary to have the proper forms for the 
different puddings to be served in an attractive 
manner. 

The high dome-shaped molds and ring mold are 
the most useful for cold puddings; also the timbale 
molds, which are best for custards. 

For the frozen and other large iced puddings 
melon and timbale molds should have tight fitting 
covers, and the ice cream brick molds can be used 
for some of the frozen puddings. 

Many of the frozen puddings are ice creams in 



579.— CHOCOLATE FARINA PUDDING. 

3 pints of milk, i pint of whipped cream, i lb. sugar- 

4 ozs. chocolate, 6 ozs. farina, i^ oz. gelatin, 

vanilla flavor. 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water. Set milk 
and sugar to boil. Sprinkle in the farina, and let 
boil to a creamy consistency. Take off the fire, 
add the chocolate; stir until well dissolved, then 
add the gelatin and flavor. Stir on ice till it 
begins to set, draw in lightly the whipped cream, 
dip the pudding molds in water, dust with sugar, 
fill in with the mixture and set in the ice box. 
When cold and firm turn from the molds, and 
serve with a cold cream sauce. 

The same pudding may be made with the yolks 
of eight to ten eggs, a custard of a quart of milk, 
to which is added two ounces of gelatin (without 
the chocolate), into a plain Farina Custard, and 
served with cream, or a cold fruit sauce. 

580.— COLD CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

2 quarts of milk, 5 ozs. cornstarch, 8 ozs. sugar, 
8 eggs, vanilla flavor. 
Prepare the same way as for No. 488, exceot 
stir the yolks with the cornstarch; let thicken and 
add the beaten whites and flavor. Fill at once 
into slightly wetted cups. Let cool, and serve 
with fruit or cream sauce. 



64 



PAUL RICHARD S BOOK OF- BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



580A.— CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE. 
2 quarts of milk, ^ pint of whipped cream, 

10 ozs. sugar, 5 to 6 ozs. cornstarch, 

a pinch of salt, vanilla flavor. 

Dissolve the starch in some cold milk. Let 
milk and sugar come to a boil. Have the whipped 
cream ready; add the cornstarch to the boiling 
milk, stir and let thicken. Take off the fire, add 
salt and flavor, and mix in the whipped cream. 
Fill into the wetted cups or forms, and let cool. 

A very light mixture may be obtained from the 
same recipe, omitting the whipped cream, and 
adding the beaten whites of six eggs, just before 
taking off the fire; mix well and fill into the forms 
at once. 

A variety of these cornstarch puddings can be 
made with fresh and preserved fruits. Place half 
a peach or apricot, or sweetened berries, in the 
bottom of the cup; fill with the hot cornstarch, 
and turn out when cold. Serve with the juice of 
the fruit, or with whipped cream. 

Another attractive way, is to fill the cornstarch 
into the ring forms, like the savarin puddings; 
turn out when ■ cold, and fill the centre with a 
compote of fruit, or with sweetened strawberries 
or raspberries. 

Plain boiled rice, tapioca, sago and farina may 
be used in the same manner; filled into the wetted 
forms while warm, and when cold served like the 
cornstarch. 

581. — CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH 
PUDDING. 
Prepare same way as for No. 580. Dissolve 
four ounces of chocolate with the sugar and a 
little milk, and let come to a boil with the rest of 
the milk; then add the starch as usual. Serve 
with vanilla cream sauce or whipped cream. 

582.— RICE PUDDING, ITALIENNE. 

8 ces. rice, 10 ozs. sugar, 2^ pints of milk, 

^ pint of whipped cream, ^ pint of maraschino, 

l}i oz. gelatin. 

Boil the rice in water (see No. 545); strain and 
let simmer with the milk and sugar to a thick 
cream; add the dissolved gelatin, and stir till cool. 
Before it sets add the mararchino and draw in th e 
whipped cream. Put into a dome-shaped or ring 
padding form; set on ice till firm. Serve with a 
cold raspberry or strawberry sauce. 

A variety of this pudding can be made after 
this recipe, adding fresh or canned fruit to the 
rice; or, fill the rice in alternate layers with the 
fruit. 

Raisins and currants, also candied fruiis, should 
be simmered in a light syrup for some time, and 
cooled before using. 



583.— RICE PUDDING, JAPANESE. 

Prepare two quarts of plain boiled rice, let 
simmer with milk to a soft cream, and let cool. 
Beat one pint of whipped cream firm, swee'cen 
and flavor vanilla. Draw this lightly into the 
cold rice, fill into fancy paper cases, decorate 
with thin slices of candied ginger, and >hen 
decorate with whipped cream. 

584.— COLD RICE WITH FRUITS. 

Prepare the plain boiled rice; let thicken and 
simmer down till it is firm enough to keep shape 
after it has cooled; sweeten and flavor. 

Rinse the pudding forms or caps with water 
and sprinkle with granulated sugar; fill with the 
warm boiled rice; let get cold in the molds. 
Turn out and serve with any suitable compote of 
fruit or rich fruit sauce. 

Strawberries and raspberries and ripe fresh 
peaches cut in slices and sweetened, served in a 
border of cold rice and decorated with whipped 
cream, make one of the best summer desserts. 

The lunch rooms serve a cold rice pudding, 
which consists of rice steamed, or boiled in milk 
and water slightly sweetened, filled into wetted 
cups while warm, with a couple of raisins in the 
bottom of the cups. After it has cooled, it is firm 
enough to keep shape. It is turned from the cups 
and served with a pitcher of plain cream. This 
makes a very profitable pudding. 

585.— LEMON SNOW PUDDING. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW PUDDING. 
STRAWBERRY SNOW PUDDING. 
RASPBERRY SNOW PUDDING. 
ORANGE SNOW PUDDING. 
1 quart of water, i lb. of' sugar, 2 ozs. of gelatin, 
the grated rind of 3 lemons, the juice of 5 lemons, 
I pint whites of eggs beaten on ice to a firm froth. 

Soak the gelatin in one pint of the water, add 
the grated lemon to the sugar, also the juice, and 
dissolve with the other pint of water. Dissolve 
the gelatin on the fire, mix with sugar and juice, 
strain and beat on ice till it begins to thicken. 
Beat it gradually into the whites. Fill into the 
cold pudding molds and set on ice. 

This pudding may be improved by using some 
white wine, leaving out a part of the lemon juice, 
and as much water as wine is added. 

To serve: dip the molds a moment in hot water, 
turn out and serve with wine, cream, or custard 
sauce. 

Other fruit juices may be used, taking the same 
quantities of liquids and gelatin, making PINE- 
APPLE, STRAWBERRY, ORANGE and RASP- 
BERRY SNOW PUDDING. 



PAni. RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



65 



586.— TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

TAPIOCA BLANC MANGE. 
^ lb. tapioca, i quart of water, i quart of milk, 
8 ozs. sugar, the rind and juics of one lemon. 
Soak the tapioca over night in the water. In 
the morning add the tapioca to the boiling milk 
and sugar, and let boil slowly till the grains 
become clear; add the lemon rind and juice. 
Fill while hot into the pudding forms wetted and 
sprinkled with sugar. Let cool, and serve with 
cream or fruit sauce. 

587.— SAGO WITH FRUIT JUICE. 

TAPIOCA WITH FRUIT JUICE. 
SAGO JELLY. 
TAPIOCA JELLY. 
^ lb. tapioca, 10 ozs. sugar, i quart of water, 
I quart of fruit juice. 
Soak the tapioca over night in the water. In 
the morning add the sugar and fruit juice. Let 
boil till clear; fill into the wetted molds; let cool. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

This pudding can be made, with the addition of 
wines instead of fruit juice, into a pleasant jelly 
for invalids. Plain, it may be served as SAGO 
or TAPIOCA JELLY, and is often called Blanc 
Mange or Flummery. 

588.— ORLEANS PUDDING. 

I quart of cream, 12 ozs. sugar, iz yolks, 

I oz. gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in some cold water. Make a 
custard with the cream, sugar and yolks; stir on 
the fire till it thickens; take ofE, let cool a little, 
add the gelatin, and strain. 

Have ready a macedoine of fruit, consisting of 
equal parts of sultanas, currants, orange peel and 
citron, simmered in one-quarter pint of maras- 
chino or sweet wine. Fill one layer of custard 
into the mold; on top of this lay a couple of lady- 
fingers dipped in wine; sprinkle some of the fruit 
on the ladyfingers; put on another layer of custard, 
then more cake and fruit; finish the top with cus- 
tard. Set on ice till firm. 

To serve: dip the mold in hot water for a 
moment, wipe dry and turn out. Serve with 
cream or fruit sauce. 

589.— CHOLOLATE PUDDING, PRINCE OF 

WALES, 
t quart of double cream, i pint of milk, 8 yolks, 
12 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. chocolate, i}i oz. gelatin, 
vanilla flavor. 
Soak the gelatin in a little cold water; beat the 
double cream on ice to a firm froth; dissolve choco- 
late and sugar on the fire, add the yolks and milk Cover and seal, bury in ice and salt and freeze for 
and stir till it thickens (but do not let it boil). Take two hours. 

off, add the gelatin and vanilla; strain, and stir To serve: turn from the molds; fill the centre 
on ice. Before the gelatin sets draw in the whip- with a prepared macedoine, consisting of pine- 



ped cream, and fill at once into the cold pudding 
molds. Set on ice to harden. 

To serve: nnmold and decorate with whipped 
cream and a garniture of small macaroons. 

590.— FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING, 
ROYALE. 

Prepare a custard same as for No. 588, without 
the gelatin. Flavor maraschino, and freeze qnite 
firm (or use ready frozen French Ice Cream). 
Mix into the frozen custard one pint of a compote 
of pineapple cut in dice, mixed with a few cherries 
and pistachio nuts cut in shreds. Freeze again, 
and add half a pint of whipped cream. Fill into 
pudding forms or brick molds, put on the cover, 
■ seal with some soft butter and freeze in ice and 
salt for three hours. 

To serve: dip the mold in hot water, wipe dry 
and slip out of the forms. Serve with a cold 
Sabayon sauce. 

591.— NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Take i^ pounds of chestnuts, blanch and re- 
move the brown skin; put on the fire in a thin 
syrup to cover the nuts and stew slowly till soft. 
Put in the mortar and pound to a smooth paste, 
adding one pint of cream and one-fourth pint of 
maraschino; add some vanilla flavor; cool, and 
freeze. 

Take eight ounces of sultanas, four ounces of 
currants, four ounces of cherries, and two ounces 
of sliced and browned almonds, simmer in a little 
wine sauce, till soft; let cool; add the fruit to the 
frozen cream and incorporate about half a pint of 
whipped cream. Fill into pudding forms, seal 
and bury in ice and salt for three hours. Serve 
with a maraschino sauce, or with whipped cream 
sauce No. 446. 

592.— FROZEN COLUMBIA PUDDING. 

Prepare one quart of Almond or Pistachio Ice 
Cream, color a delicate green. Take one quart 
of maraschino ice. Mix into the ice one pint of 
macedoine o^f ruits, consisting of candied cherries, 
orange peel, angelica and pineapple. Line the 
mold with the pistachio cream, fill the centre with 
the ice and fruit. Bury in ice and salt for three 
hours. Serve cut in slices with a whipped cream 
sauce, or sauce mousseline No. 445, flavored 
maraschino or noyeau. 

593.— FROZEN PUDDING, STANLEY. 
Prepare a frozen custard same as for No. 590 
(or use the French Ice Cream). Fill into a turban- 
shaped pudding form with a large centre tube. 



66 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



apple, peaches, apricots, strawberries or rasp- 
berries; decorate with a border of whipped cream. 

594.— FROZEN PLUM PUDDING. 

Prepare one quart of Chocolate Ice Cream. 
Flavor with cloves and cinnamon. Add one pint 
of mixed fruit, consisting of seeded Malaga 
raisins, currants, citron and orange peel, sim- 
mered in a strong rum sauce. Cool the fruit be- 
fore adding to the creara, and mix with it half a 
pint of whipped cream. Put into molds and 
freeze for two hours. Serve with a Sabayon 
sauce, flavored rum. 

595.— ICED PUDDING WITH STRAW- 
BERRIES. 

Line the pudding forms with a clear wine jelly, 
and keep the forms on ice. Prepare a strawberry 
sauce same as for No. 441. Warm it lightly, and 
to each quart add one ounce of gelatin previously 
soaked and dissolved. Cool again, till it nearly 
sets. Fill the lined forms with alternate layers 
of the fruit sauce and ladyfingers till the molds 
are filled. Keep on ice till well set. Unmold 
and serve with a border of whipped cream; 
decorate with fresh strawberries. 

596.— HOW TO LINE A MOLD WITH JELLY. 
Have the Gelatin Jelly nearly cold, but liquid. 
Set the molds to be lined in a shallow pan, half 
filled with finely shaved ice, a little salt and water. 
Fill the molds nearly full with the jelly, and let 
rest for a minute till the jelly on the sides begins 
to set. Give the mold a few turns, lift from the 
ice, pour out the jelly from the centre, and put 
the coated mold in the ice box. Proceed in this 
manner till all the molds are lined. 

597.— ALASKA SOUFFLE PUDDING. 
BAKED ICE CREAM. . 
Prepare one quart of frozen custard ice cream 
(or use ready frozen brick ice cream). Cut into 
square portions, steeple form. Have ready pre- 
pared the meringue No. 93. For each portion 
prepare a bed of ladyfingers in the dish the pud- 
ding is to be served in; put on the ice cream. 
Put the meringue in the dressing bag; use plain 
or star tube, and cover the cream in pyramid 
fashion. Decorate with French fruit; dust with 
powdered sugar. Set the dish in another platter 
in a very hot oven or range, to brown lightly, and 
serve at once. 



598.-LARGE AND SMALL CHARLOTTES. 

The Charlottes are made in various ways, with 
fillings of fruit and creams. 

The large Charlottes are the most attractive, 
because they admit of more decoration. 

The casing may be built around the creams 
after it is turned from the mold. It may be 



formed of iced strips of cake, fancy macaroons, 
meringues, and of fancy rolled wafers, placed 
around the base of the creams, and further 
decorated with whipped cream. 

Another way is to build the case from lady- 
fingers, macaroons, or meringues, around the out- 
side of the Charlotte mold, fastening the pieces 
together with sugar boiled to the caramel degree, 
or with royal icing. Let it dry well, and set the 
prepared case over the cream after it is turned 
from the mold. 

For the small Charlottes, the cases may be 
lined with the special crusts given in Nos. 97 and 
98. Ladyfingers and rolled wafers are also used 
for the lining. 

The commercial way is to serve the Charlottes 
in the paper cases, which are lined with sponge 
cake or ladyfingers, cut to fit; and some caterers 
serve large Charlottes in one- and two-quart glass 
bowls, lined with ladyfingers, filled with simple 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. The 
small ones in sherbet or wine glasses lined with 
ladyfingers or wafers, the centre decorated with 
cherries and angelica. 

The CHARLOTTE RUSSE and other cream 
mixtures in the following chapters are for creams 
which are to be turned from the molds. The 
amount of gelatin given is sufiScient for this pur- 
pose. For Charlottes served in the case, less 
gelatin may be used; and in the small Charlottes, 
if they do not have to stand very long before 
serving, it may be left out altogether. 

The gelatins vary in strength, and the cheaper 
grades possess a strong flavor of glue, which often 
mars the delicate flavor of the creams, if too 
much is used. 

The most difiScult and delicate part in preparing 
creams, to make them perfect, is the bringing to- 
gether at the right moment the part which con- 
tains the gelatin and the whipped cream. If the 
part which contains the gelatin is added too soon, 
before it begins to set, it injures the lightness of 
the whipped cream, and the preparation loses 
much of its beauty. If it sets too much, the 
gelatin part forms lumps, which cannot be prop- 
erly amalgamated with the lighter whipped cream. 

As soon as the mixture is prepared, it should be 
filled into the forms while it is still in a flowing 
condition, before the gelatin is firmly set. This 
foint must be observed in all the creams in which 
gelatin is used, because it is essential to make 
them perfect. 

599.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE MIXTURE NO. 1. 
I quart plain cream, i quart double cream, 

12 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. gelatin, 

vanilla flavor. 
Soak the gelatin in the plain cream for halt an 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 6j 



hour, add the sugar, and warm in hot water till 
gelatin and sugar are dissolved. (Do not over- 
beat, as this may cause the cream and gelatin to 
curdle.) Strain, let cool, and add the flavor. 
Stir till it begins to thicken, and draw it into one 
quart of whipped cream; then fill into the lined 
molds. 

600.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE MIXTURE NO. 2. 
CHARLOTTE RUSSE, GERMAN MIX- 
TURE. 
I quart rich milk or cream, i quart double cream, 
l}i to 2 ozs. gelatin, 16 yolks, I2 ozs. sugar, 
vanilla flavor. 
Soak the gelatin in a little cold water. Beat 
the double cream to a firm froth. Stir sugar and 
yolks in a sauce pan, and add the milk gradually. 
Stir on the fire till it thickens; take ofi, add flavor 
and the gelatin, strain, and stir in a basin on ice 
till it begins to set. Mix with the whipped cream 
and fill into the forms. 

601.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE MIXTURE NO. 3. 
I quart of double cream, 6 ozs. sugar, 

^ oz. gelatin, vanilla flavor. 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water. When 
soft, strain and mix with the sugar. Dissolve on 
the fire, and let cool. Beat the double cream on 
ice to a firm froth, add flavor, and pour in the 
gelatin in a thin stream, beating constantly till it 
is all in. Fill the mixture into the lined molds; 
let .aS*, and serve. 

602.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE MIXTURE NO. 4. 
Beat one quart of double cre?m to a firm froth, 
sweeten with six ounces of powdered sugar, flavor 
vanilla. 

603.— CHARLOTTE, NEAPOLITAN. 

Prepare mixture No. 601. Divide the whipped 
cream in three parts, and also the gelatin after it 
is dissolved. Color one part pink, adding straw- 
berry or raspberry extract. The next part color 
chocolate, with powdered or melted chocolate. 
Leave one part white, flavor vanilla. 

Prepare one of the colors at a time, and fill 
each mold in even layer to one third. Set on ice 
to settle, and prepare the next color. Fill in the 
second layer. Set on ice again, and finish with 
the third color. 

The small individual Charlottes may be made 
in threejayers; the larger ones in six and nine and mix lightly with the whipped cream. Fill 



604.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE, CHANTILLY. 

Prepare a lining from the crusts Nos. 97 or 98. 
Bake very soft, and let cool. Remove the paper, 
cut in strips to fit the molds. After all the molds 
are lined, fill with any of the first three mixtures. 
Set in the ice box till firm. 

To serve: dip the bottom of the mold in hot water 
for a moment, and turn out in the dish. Decorate 
top and sides with whipped cream; put a border 
around the base, and decorate with cherries and 
angelica. 

60s.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE IN CASES. 

Line plain or fancy paper cases, or sherbet 
glasses, with the crusts Nos. 97 or 98 (or use lady- 
fingers or wafers). Fill with the mixture No. 602. 
Serve plain, or decorate with star tube and whip- 
ped cream. 

606.— CHARLOTTE WITH CHOCOLATE, 
GERMAN STYLE. 

Prepare the mixture No. 600, with four ounces 
of chocolate. Fill into forms without lining, and 
set on ice to become firm. 

Prepare and bake some ladyfingers of even size, 
one part of the macaroon mixture No. 261, the 
other part of meringue No. 94. Dry the meringues 
rather light, and give the macaroon fingers a good 
color. 

To serve: unmold, set on flat dishes, and place 
the fingers alternately around the cream, fasten- 
ing with strips of whipped cream on the sides, 
and a heavy border around the base. 

To make the Charlotte more elaborate, the 
fingers may be decorated with royal icing; and 
for a large Charlotte of this kind, the case may 
be prepared as indicated in No. 598. 

607.— STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

PEACH CHARLOTTE. 

APRICOT CHARLOTTE. 

NUT MEAT CHARLOTTE. 
Line the molds the same as for No. 604. Soak 
two ounces of gelatin in a little cold water. Take 
one quart of ripe berries, rub through a sieve and 
mix with one pound of powdered sugar. Beat 
i}4 pints of double cream to a firm froth. Dis- 
solve the gelatin on the fire, add to the crushed 
fruit; stir this mixture on ice till it begins to set. 



layers, in alternating colors. 

To serve: turn out of the form, decorate the 
sides with small ladyfingers, iced chocolate, pink 
and white, and fasten with a firm jam around the 
cream, a little apart. With bag and tube dress a 
border of whipped cream around the base, which 
intersperse with candied fruit 



into the lined molds and set on ice till firm. Turn 
from the molds. Serve decorated with whipped 
cream and some nice ripe berries. 

The same combination may be used without 
lining, for large fancy Charlottes, and the case 
may be built around the cream after it is turned 
from the mold. (See No. 598.) 



68 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



A plainer Charlotte of this kind can be made 
by adding ripe berries to the Charlotte Russe 
mixtures Nos. i, 2, or 3 (the strawberries cut in 
halves or quarters; the raspberries left whole), 
and filled into the molds as usual. Or, if served 
in the cases, some sweetened berries may be 
placed in the bottom, and the case filled with the 
mixture No. 4, which contains no gelatin. 

Ripe fresh peaches or apricots, cut in small dice 
and sweetened, may be substituted for berries, 
naming them PEACH or APRICOT CHAR- 
LOTTE. 

Other combinations may be made by adding 
crushed macaroons, browned almonds, or other 
nut meats, to peachesand apricots; or by using 
other preserved fruits or French fruits glaces, 
giving the Charlotte the appropriate names. 
608.— FROZEN CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Line the Charlotte mold same as for No. 604, 
and fill with the whipped cream No. 602. Set 
the Charlottes in the ice cave or freezing box for 
two hours. 

To serve : turn from the molds, ice with Fond- 
ant icing, and decorate with cherries and angelica, 
or with a bright red jelly. 

Another way is to decorate with whipped cream 
in two colors, pink and white, like No. 604. 

609.— CHARLOTTE WITH MACAROONS. 
CHARLOTTE WITH ALMONDS. 
CHARLOTTE WITH NUTS. 
CHARLOTTE WITH MERINGUES. 
PONCE DE LEON CHARLOTTES. 
Prepare the mixture No. 600. Add two ounces 
of crushed macaroons, flavor vanilla, fill into 
forms, and set on ice. 

Prepare small macaroons, decorate each with 
royal icing. Unmold the cream, place a border 
of whipped cream around; set the macaroons 
around the Charlotte and one on top of the 
cream, and finish the decoration with more whip- 
ped cream in fancy design. 

Charlottes with almonds, nuts, and meringues 
may be made in the same manner, using small 
macaroons, wafers or meringues for side decora- 
tion. 

610,— CHARLOTTE GLACE. 
Line a dome-shaped mold with a pink colored 
jelly, as indicated in No. 596. Flavor the jelly 
maraschino or port wine. After the lining is 
firmly set, fill with mixture No. 599 or 601, and 
set on ice till the cream becomes firm. 

To serve: dip the mold in warm water for a 
moment, and turn carefully on a shallow dish. De- 
corate with whipped cream and small macaroons. 
611.— CHARLOTTE BELLEVUE. 
Line the molds with a clear wine jelly. Deco- 
rate the bottom with a star or any other fancy 



design of angelica and cherries. Fasten the fruit 
to the sides by dipping in some jelly. When the 
lining is set, fill the centre with a pink colored 
Charlotte Russe or Bavarian Cream, flavored 
strawberry or maraschino. Set on ice till firm; 
unmold, and serve in the same manner as Char- 
lotte Glace No. 610. 

Another way of making this Charlotte, is to fill 
some clear wine jelly into the bottom of the mold, 
decorate with fruit; put in a cake lining, as 
described in No. 604; fill with the Charlotte mix 
ture; let set, and serve with the jelly part on 
top and the sides decorated with whipped cream. 

612.— BAVARIAN CREAM. 
CREMES BAVAROIS. 
VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM. 
CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
I pint of plain cream, i pint of double cream, 
10 yolks, 8 ozs. of sugar, i^ ozs. of gelatin, 
vanilla flavor. 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water. Beat 
the double cream firm ' and let drain on a sieve. 
Put the sugar, yolks and plain cream on the fire; 
stir till it thickens, but do not let boil. Take ofi; 
stir in the gelatin; strain and add the flavor. Stir 
on ice till it begins to set, then mix with the whip- 
ped cream. Fill into the cold forms, and set on 
ice till wanted. 

To facilitate the unmolding, the molds may be 
brushed with sweet almond oil or olive oil; other- 
wise the molds have to be dipped in water for a. 
moment to loosen the cream. 

After this recipe a variety of creams can be 
made, changing the flavors, to maraschino, orange, 
orange flower; or add some crushed nuts or 
browned almonds. The addition of four ounces 
of chocolate makes a nice CHOCOLATE BA- 
VARIAN CREAM. 

613.— STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 
RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Prepare the cream same as for No. 607, and fill 
into the forms without any lining. 

Other fruit creams of this kind can be made 
with crushed cherries, peaches, apricots and red 
currants, using one pint of crushed fruit, two 
ounces of gelatin, one pound of sugar, and one 
and a half pints of double cream. 

614.— BAVARIAN CREAM IN LAYERS. 
CREME BAVAROIS PANACH£;E. 

Prepare three or four of the creams, as straw- 
berry, vanilla, chocolate, and one white cream 
same as No. 604. Fill into the forms in layers in 
the same manner as for No. 603. 

Other flavors in which the creams are made are 
coffee, tea, caramel, etc. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



69 



The creams are generally served plain; but for 
more efiect they may be decorated with whipped 
cream and French fruits. 



61S-BLANC- MANGE. 

Blanc-Mange means a white mixture; but it 
is made in a variety of colors, like the Bavarian 
creams. 

Blanc-Manges are geneitally made of a firmer 
texture than the foregoing creams, but may be 
greatly improved and made light by adding a part 
of whipped cream, or whites of eggs in the form 
of a meringue, to the mixture just before the 
cream thickens on ice, in the same way as for the 
Charlotte and Bavarian creams. 

616.— ALMOND BLANC-MANGE. 

1 quart of milk, i quart of cream, 12 ozs. sugar, 

2 ozs. gelatin, ^ lb. almonds, a few bitter almonds 

or peach kernels. 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water; blanch 
the almonds and pound in the mortar to a soft 
paste, adding some milk. Put the milk, sugar 
and almonds on the fire, and let come near to a 
boil; remove and set in a warm place for half an 
hour, well covered, to draw the flavor of the 
almonds; add the gelatin. Strain and press 
through a fine cloth, flavor with a few drops of 
orange flower extract and add the cream. Beat 
on ice till it begins to thicken and set, then fill into 
forms. Serve same way as the Bavarian creams. 

A plainer and less expensive blanc-mange may 
be made after the same recipe, adding half a pint 
more of milk, and leaving out the almonds; add- 
ing almond extract for Almond Blanc-Mange, and 
other extracts and colorings for the other kinds. 

617.— CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE. 
Add to No. 616 four ounces of chocolate, or 
cocoa powder, and four ounces more sugar, and 
finish in the same manner. 

618.— BLANC-MANGE WITH COFFEE: 
BLANC-MANGE AU CAFfi 

Add to No. 616 half a pint of strong black cofiee; 
leave out half a pint of the milk, and finish same 
as the others. 

619.— BLANC-MANGE A LA REINE. 
BLANC-MANGE WITH FRUIT. 

Prepare the mixture No. 616 with three pints 
of plain cream. 

Take one pint of double cream, beat it to a 
firm froth, adding it to the almond cream before 
it begins to set; adding also at the same time one- 
half a pint of mixed candied fruits soaked in 
maraschino syrup and cut in very small pieces. 
Serve with a border of whipped cream, colored 
pink and flavored with rose extract. 



620.— STRAWBERRY BLANC-MANGE. 

RASPBERRY BLANC-MANGE. 

Prepare the mixture No. 616 with three pints 

cf plain cream, and add one pint of sweetened 

fruit juice and some color before the cream 

thickens. Beat and mix well and fill into forms. 

621.— BLANC-MANGE WITH LIQUORS. 
To mixture No. 616 add suitable liquors, as 
sherry, rum, maraschino, noyeau, etc. 

622.— BLANC-MANGE, PANACHfiE. 

Prepare same as Bavarian Cream No. 614, let- 
ting each layer set before adding the next layer. 

The Blanc-Manges may be made with fresh 
berries in season, adding the berries in layers 
between the cream. 



623-FRENCH CREAMS. 

CREMES A LA FRANCAIS. 
The French Creams consist of custards, which 
are set w'th gelatin, and made light by beating 
the custard on ice till the gelatin begins to set, 
same way as for the blanc-mange. 

624.— FRENCH VANILLA CREAM. 

CREME FRANCAIS A LA VANILLE. 
3 pints of cream, 12 ozs. of sugar, 12 yolks, 

\j4 ozs. of gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water; beat 
yolks and sugar, add the cream gradually, put on 
the fire and stir till it thickens. Take o£E at 
once, add the dissolved gelatin, and strain into a 
basin set on ice. Add the flavor and beat con- 
stantly till it begins to set. Fill into oiled forms, 
and keep on ice till firm. Unmold and serve like 
blanc-mange. 

625.— CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

CREME FRANCAIS AU CHOCOLAT. 

Add four ounces of chocolate to No. 624; let 
dissolve with the sugar before adding the cream 
and yolks. Serve with a border of whippedcream. 

626 — COFFEE CREAM. 

CREME FRANCAIS AU CAF6. 
Add half a pint of strong coffee to No. 624. Leave 
out one-half pint of cream, and finish in the same 
manner. 

627.— TORTONI CREAM. 

CREME TORTONI A LA FRANCAIS. 

Add to the vanilla cream No. 624 four ounces 
of crushed and browned almonds and macaroons. 
Fill into forms as usual, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

628.— FRENCH CREAM WITH FRUIT. 

CREME FRANCAIS, MACEDOINE. 
Prepare the cream No. 624 without the vanilla; 
flavor maraschino before it begins to set on the 



70 



PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK 0» BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



ice; add a macedoine of French fruits, consisting the cups in a pan with hot water and bake in a 
of apricots, cherries, angelica and pineapple cut medium heat till done (which may be ascertained 
in dice. Fill into the forms, and serve with whip- 
ped cream. 

629.— FRENCH CREAM WITH PEACHES. 
CREME FRANCAIS AUX PECHES. 
Prepare one pint of peach marmalade No. 11. 
Make a cream with one quart of cream, six 
ounces of sugar, ten yolks and two ounces of 
gelatin, as in No. 624. Mix with the marmalade 
before it cools; beat on ice till it thickens; fill 
into forms and set on ice to settle. Serve in 
a border of whipped cream. 

Cream with apricots may be made in the same 
manner; also cream with strawberries or rasp- 
berries, adding one pint of crushed and sweet- 
ened fruit pulp and a little coloring. 

630.— FRENCH CREAM with LIQUORS. 

FRENCH CREAM with MARASCHINO. 
CREME FRANCAIS au MARASQUIN. 
The French Creams with liquors are made after 
the recipe No. 624, adding maraschino, Char- 
treuse, Benedictine, etc. 

631.-WHIPPED CREAM with FRUIT in cases. 

MOUSSE AU FRUITS en caisse. 
I pint of double cream whipped to a firm froth, 
I pint of crushed fruit, i lb. sugar, i^ ozs. gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin, mix the sugar and crushed 
fruit, heat lightly and add the gelatin; stir till 
cold, and before it sets add the whipped cream, 
and fill into molds or paper cases. Decorate with 
plain whipped cream, and serve. 

Strawberry, raspberry, apricot and peach 
mousse are prepared in this manner. 

A lighter kind of mousse can be made without 
the gelatin (for immediate use) from dry whipped 
cream. Take one quart of double cream, beat 
firm and let drain on a sieve for thirty minutes. 
Before serving add three-quarters of a pint of 
sweetened fruit pulp, and draw it lightly into the 
whipped cream. Chocolate, coffee, liquors and 
extracts may be added in place of fmits. These 
creams should be served at once, because they 
soften quickly, being without gelatin to keep them 
firm. 

In place of paper cases, meringue baskets or 
small patty cases may be used for holding the 
creams. See Nos. 131, 317, 381 and 396. 



BAKED CUSTARDS. 

632.— CUP CUSTARD WITH VANILLA. 

2 quarts of rich milk, 12 ozs. of sugar, 10 eggs, 

vanilla extract. 

Beat eggs and sugar and add the warmed milk; 

add flavor and a pinch of salt, fill into cups; set 



by inserting the blade of a thin knife in the centre 
of the custard: if the blade appears dry, the cus- 
tard is done.) 

A variety of custards may be made after this 
recipe by adding chocolate, coffee, orange or 
lemon rind or extracts, nuts or almonds, etc. 

The custards should be served iced, and may 
be served plain, or with a spoonful of whipped 
cream on top. 

633.— FRENCH CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

CREME RENVERSE AU CARAMEL. 
Boil one pound of granulated sugar to the 
caramel degree (No. 67). As soon as it turns to 
a golden color, add a little water and reduce it to 
the soft ball degree. Fill a thin layer of this 
syrup while hot into the bottom of timbale molds; 
let cool. Rub the sides of the molds with some 
melted butter or olive oil. Prepare the custard 
No. 160; flavor vanilla. Fill into the molds and 
bake same as the cup custard No. 632. When 
done, take from the water and let cool. 

To serve: loosen the custard lightly from the 
sides with the tip of the finger and turn upside 
down into the dish the custard is to be served in. 
The caramel in the bottom of the mold forms a 
syrup, which serves as the sauce. 

The most particular part of this custard is the 
baking. Too much baking makes the custard 
curdle and turn watery. 

Custards with other flavors may be made after 
this recipe, to be turned from the molds when cold. 

634.— BOILED CUSTARD. 
CUSTARD CREAM. 
CUSTARD SIDE DISHES. 
2 quarts milk, 10 ozs. sugar, 1% ozs. cornstarch, 
8 yolks, s whole eggs, flavor. 

Dissolve the starch in some cold milk. Let the 
other milk and sugar come to a boil, stir in the 
starch; takeoff the fire, pour the milk over the 
well-beaten eggs; return to the fire a moment for 
the eggs to thicken; strain and flavor. 

This custard serves for many purposes. It may 
be stirred cold on ice, or poured hot over the fruit 
or cake you intend to serve with it. 

A large variety of SIDE DISHES may be 
made with boiled custard for lunch counters and 
hotel use, by baking small cases or tart shells from 
puff-paste or pie crust or short paste; filling the 
bottom with berries, cherries or peaches; sweeten 
and pour over some custard. Or bake the fruit 
in the cases, pour over the custard and decorate 
with a meringue 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OP BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 7I 



635.-GELATIN JELLIES. 

These jellies are made with wines, fruit juices 
and liquors. The gelatin is added to give firm- 
cess to the mixture, so it can be turned from the 
molds. For this reason the jellies served in 
glasses can be made more delicate, and require 
less gelatin than the jellies which have to be taken 
from the molds. 

As the gelatins are not uniform it often takes a 
little experimenting to obtain the proper results. 
The wine jellies may be made from wine only, 
but the process is too expensive. It is best to 
make a stock jelly from lemon juice, water, sugar 
and spices, and add the wine or liquors. 

For the Fruit jellies the fruit juice is filtered and 
mixed with even quantities of simple syrup No. 6i, 
to which the gelatin is added. It is advisable to use 
a little more gelatin during the summer months, 
or in places where the jellies are served in a hot 
kitchen. The warm atmosphere keeps the jellies 
soft, and if not sufficient gelatin is added the 
jellies run flat or break, and become unfit to serve. 

A jelly is best if made the day before using it, 
so it may be well set before it is served. 

636.— STOCK JELLY. 
8 ozs. gelatin, ^}i quarts of water, 3 lbs. sugar, 
10 lemons, the rind of i orange and 2 lemons, 
I oz. mixed spices (consisting of whole cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon and a blade of mace), 
7 whites of eggs, and the clean shells of the eggs. 

Soak the gelatin in the water for half an hour, 
add the strained juice of the lemons, the spices, 
the rind and sugar, the clean egg shells, crushed, 
and the whites beaten up half. 

For the boiling use a large pan or kettle which 
holds about three or four gallons, as the jelly rises 
considerably during boiling. 

Set on the fire and let come to a slow boil; let 
toil for about ten minutes from the time it begins 
to boil, or till the whites of eggs curdle. Take 
off the fire and let rest for a moment. Wet the 
flannel or felt jelly bag in hot water, wring it and 
hang in the jelly box; fill with the jelly; let run 
into a clean basin, and return it to the bag several 
times, till it runs perfectly clear. Keep the bag 
well covered in a warm place till the jelly has all 
run through. 

Add to this jelly one quart of wine, or one pint 
of liquor, as directed; add appropriate colors, fill 
into molds; let rest on ice from tour to five hours, 
or till ready to serve. 

To use: dip the mold in hot water for a second 
and turn out on the dish to be served in. 

Bright, shallow glass dishes are the best for 
serving jellies. They may be served in a border 
of whipped cream; or a part of the jelly may be 



colored in an opposite color, filled into a shallow 
pan in a thin layer about one-quarter inch deep, 
and after it is hardened cut into small diamonds, 
stars or crescents and used for decoration. 

From this Stock Jelly all the different wine and 
liquor jellies can be made without giving a sepa- 
rate recipe for each jelly. 

637.— RIBBON JELLY. 

GELEE A LA POUSSE CAFfi. 
Take from the clear Stock Jelly. Flavor one 
part maraschino, color pink; one part creme de 
mentbe, color light green; one part Chartreuse, 
or sherry color (dark yellow); leave one part clear, 
flavor with white wine. Fill the jelly in alternate 
colors into high narrow glasses, letting each layer 
set before adding the next layer. Finish the top 
with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, and 
serve. 

638.— CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 

Make the Stock Jelly lightly spiced; add one 
quart of dry sweet catawba, or any other white 
wine of good flavor. Cool the jelly on ice till it 
nearly sets. Beat the jelly with the egg-beater 
lightly till some bubbles appear in the jelly. The 
bubbles are caught in the setting jelly, and a part 
will rise to the top, forming a white froth. Fill 
at once into champagne glasses and set on ice. 

The foam on the top becomes firm, and the 
rising bubbles in the centre make it look like real 
champagne. 

For a more expensive Champagne Jelly, one pint 
of champagne may be added to the setting jelly 
at the proper moment, so the bubbles are caught 
in the jelly, which will make it still more real. 

A very nice jelly of this kind may be made by 
adding ginger ale or sparkling cider to plain jelly, 
and finish like the Champagne Jelly. For a hoax, 
a straw may be placed into the glass, or a cherry 
in the centre of the jelly to make it look like a 
cocktail, etc. 

A more plain way of making Champagne Jelly 
is to fill the glasses partly with clear jelly; beat 
some jelly light, adding some beaten whites of 
eggs, and fill on top of the clear jelly. 

639.— WINE AND LIQUOR JELLIES WITH 
FRUIT. 
Take a clear wine or liquor jelly, fill one layer 
of jelly in the bottom of the small individual 
molds, put on ice till the jelly is set. Place on 
top of the jelly half a preserved peach or apricot, 
or take a round slice of pineapple. Place a cherry 
in the centre, or use fresh ripe berries of any kind, 
putting them in symmetrically. On top of tha 
fruit fill more jelly which is almost ready to set. 
Place on ice to get firm. 



72 



PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



To unmold: dip the mold in hot water a second, 
turn over on dish, and serve in a border of whip- 
ped cream. 

640.— SWISS PEACH MERINGUE. 

Line a dome-shaped jelly mold with a pink 
colored marschino jelly, then place half a pre- 
served peach in the bottom and fill some more of 
the jelly over the fruit, and set cold to become 
firm. Prepare the Charlotte Russe Cream No. 
601 and fill on top of the fruit. 

To serve: turn out so the fruit appears on top. 
Serve in a border of whipped cream. 

641.— MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. 

Line a jelly mold with a clear liquor jelly. 
After the jelly has set, put in one layer of straw- 
berries or raspberries; pour over a little jelly and 
let set. Put on one layer of ripe peaches cut in 
dice; more jelly; then a layer of blackberries or 
blue grapes; a little more jelly, and a layer of 
green grapes, etc., and continue in alternating 
layers till the form is filled. Keep on ice till firm 
and serve with whipped cream, or with a cold 
cream sauce. 

For a large party this jelly may be made very 
attractive in a border mold with a large centre 
tube; filling the centre, after the jelly is turned 
from the mold, with whipped cream. Or, by 
making a separate Bavarian cream in a mold 
which fits into the centre of the border mold, and 
place this in the centre when ready to serve. 

The macedoines may be made with any fruit in 
season, or in combination with French fruits 
glaces, or preserved fruits. 

The French fruits should be softened in a 
liquor syrup before using. 

642.— STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY 

JELLIES WITH GELATIN. 

I quart water, i quart fruit juice, 2 lbs. sugar, 

3 ozs. gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin, make a clear syrup of the 
water and sugar, filter the fruit juice same way as 
for fruit syrups (see No. 58). Add the gelatin to 
the hot syrup, and mix with the fruit juice. Add 
a little coloring, if required; fill into forms, like 
other jellies. 

643.— ORANGE JELLY. 

Take one pint of simple syrup No. 61. Have 
it very clear. Press the juice of twelve oranges 
and two lemons to make one pint of juice; add 
one and one-half ounces of soaked gelatin to the 
warm syrup, and mix syrup and the filtered juice. 
Fill into forms, let become firm and serve. 

A favorite way f serving this jelly is to cut 
baskets from oranges, scallop the sides and handle 



and remove the pulp. The juice may be used for 
the jelly. Set the baskets on ice, or, better, in a 
freezing closet to get firm, and fill with the jelly. 
Decorate with cherries and angelica. 

The jelly may be served as a ribbon jelly, one 
part colored a deep red, like blood orange, and 
the other part orange yellow; and filled into the 
forms in alternating layers. 

644.— LEMON JELLY. 

Prepare like the Orange Jelly No. 643. Use 
one pound of sugar, one and one-half ounces of 
gelatin, the juice of ten lemons, and enough water 
to inake one quart syrup and juice. 

Other jellies of this kind can be made in the 
same proportions, using one pint of strong 
coffee or tea, with one pint of syrup; or one pint 
of wine, with the same amount of gelatin. 

The juice of some lemons may be added and 
clarified with the syrup to liquor jellies; also to 
jellies with the flavor of orange flower or violets 
and roses. 

645.— PUNCH JELLY. 
Prepare the Orange or Lemon- Jelly, Nos. 643 
and 644, and flavor with some good rum. 

646.— CRUSHED FRUITS AND COMPOTES 
OF FRUIT IN FORMS. 
Prepare berries and other fruits in the same 
way as for marmalade (see Preserves No. 13). 
Use ten ounces of sugar to each quart of fruit 
(more if the fruit is very tart). Stir juice and 
sugar till well dissolved and clear. Warm lightly 
and add one ounce of dissolved gelatin. Stir 
slowly on ice till it begins to thicken, then fill into 
forms. Let become firm and serve with cream. 

647.— COMPOTE OF MIXED FRUITS. 

Line a large compote or melon form with a 
clear wine or maraschino jelly. Take a mixed 
compote of fruit, or use preserved fruit, as 
cherries, peaches, apricots, greengages, plums, 
etc. Dry the fruit in a clean towel, dip each 
fruit in jelly and arrange it in contrasting layers 
tastefully in the form, filling a little of the jelly 
between the layers till the form is filled. Let be- 
come firmly set, unmold and serve. 

Whole fresh strawberries and raspberries may 
be served in this manner, or the sides of the form 
only may be decorated with the berries; fastening 
the fruit to the jelly lining with nearly set jelly, 
and fill the centre of the decorated form with the 
Charlotte russe mixtures. 

Pineapples, pears, apples and other fruit may 
be used in exactly the same manner With the 
assistance of some cherries and angelica these 
dishes can be made very attractive. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 73 

6>8. COMBINATION JELLIES. cool. It is served with a thick layer of black rye 

Another large variety of cold dishes can be bread crumbs (Pumpernickle) sweetened with 

made by using the Charlotte and Bavarian creams, powdered sugar, and makes one of the most 

or the blanc-manges, in combination layers with delicious summer dishes. 

the wine and fruit jellies; or by using one or the 

other in a border form, and one to fill the centra. OTHER SIDE DISHES. 

The cream combinations may be further deco- 
rated with macaroons, biscuits, wafers, etc. 



SHORT CAKES. 



652.— STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
649.— RUSSIAN JELLY. Prepare a short paste from one pound of flour, 

GELEE MUSCOVITE. ^ *^ , '^ ^ , ru.» j 

vjj-iw^^ j^jj ounces of sugar, twelve ounces of butter and 

Take clear stock jelly, flavor brandy and color ^j^^j y^j^^. g^^^^ cinnamon (see No. 84); or use 
pink. Fill the bottom of the molds with one layer paste No. 77 or No. 79. 

of this jelly, and let get firm. Flavor another 3^^^ ^^^ bottoms in layer-cake pans. Pick 
part of clear jelly with Kummel Liqueur, a cordial ^^^^ ^^^ strawberries and mix with powdered 
of carraway. Set on ice in a basin, and beat till ^^g^^ Prepare one pint of whipped cream (see 
light and white but still flowing. Fill this into ^^ ^^gj_ ^^^^^ ^^^ berries and spread on both 
the mold on top of the pink jelly. Finish the top layers. Cover the cake and berries on sides and 
with another layer of pink jelly, let harden and j^p ^^^ whipped cream with bag and tube, 
serve. _ Another way is to bake a thick layer of pound 

All the plain jellies may be beaten light in this ^^^^^ gp^ ;„ halves, spread with the berries and 
manner, and when near the setting point mixed shipped cream, as given above, 
with beaten whites of eggs or whipped cream, 
witnoeaienwuit gs ,„:»X ^ifh fr„:t<! 653.— STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE, 

These jellies may again be varied with fruits, 33 FAMILY STYLE 

or by putting in the fruit in layers, Neapolitan "^^ ^^ ° • 

™ t. i. ij u u:„i:<..4 „„.i Prepare a tea biscuit mixture with two pounds 

style. The combinations could be multiplied and , „ '^ . , , , f 

■' , . ,. . , _ . »„„„„*:„„ of flour, SIX ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, 

made into dainty dishes too numerous to mention. , , ,. .,,. , , 

one and a half ounces of baking powder, two eggs, 
650.— JELLY POWDERS AND JUNKETS. milk to mix. Sift flour and baking powder to- 
Some preparations are in use for making jellies gether, rub in the butter, add the sugar and eggs, 
on short notice and in small quanties in all flavors and mix with milk into a soft dough. Divide 
and colors. They consist of very fine gelatin jn pieces, roll out and bake in layer-cake tins, 
powder, sugar, flavor and acid mixed together. Split each of the layers in halves, spread with 
The jelly is made by simply adding boiling water butter, cover with crushed and sweetened berries 
to a given amount of the preparation, stirring till between and on top, and serve with cream, 
it dissolves, and fill into the forms. The powders 554.— OTHER STYLES OF MAKING 

may be improved by adding half wine and water, SHORTCAKES, 

or clarified fruit juices. They are very handy to ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^_. ^^^ ^^^ layer-cake tins) from 
use in restaurants, where only a small quantity is p^^^^ ^^^^^ ^p^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ j^^^^ ^^^^ mixtures, 
used. —TTTNKETS Prepare the meringue No. 93. Spread one layer 

^ , !.. I, „i„. ' Taii;o= T ™;ii of the cake thinly with meringue. Raise a high 

Before I close this chapter on Jellies, I will . . ' j .u j r> . 

. , . . ■„u ;„ „„t „„ rim of the meringue around the edge. Put on an 

mention a nice summer dessert which IS not as tu - ^ ^ -.-u 1 

"^ even layer of berries dust with sugar; place one 

much used as it should be, and deserves to be ' ^u u • j -.,. 

"^ „, - , i w j» *„„ more layer of cake on the berries; spread with 

better known. The junkets can be made from . ' ., , „ , .. j , . 

ociLci »."" J . . ui . .. Ka meringue, like the bottom layer then add berries 

fresh milk. Junket or rennet tablets may be , ^ „,.^, , ^ / . , , „. 

iresu uiiic. J I -^fl „„„,„„ J and sugar. With bag and tube form a lattice on 

bought from the grocer; they contain flavor and , .u u ■ j j . -.u ^ u j 

puugui iiuuA 6 4,. ^ . , . j.„ topof theberries,anddecoratewithafancyborder, 

sugar besides the rennet. The tablets are dis- ^ " ^ • ,. - ,. 

»ugai Mca. „■,.,: The cakes may be served in this manner, or the 

solved in warm milk, and thicken the milk in a . u u j i- u.i • .v, 

auivcu 1" ... ,, .,- _ Li meringues may be browned lightly m the oven. 

short time into a white jelly, resembling blanc- ,^ .u j • j- ui • j, 

snuri iiiuc ."iw •■ -It. This method is used in bakeries and lunch 

manee The junkets are served with cream, or o^. u . . • 1 j -.u 

mange, xuc ju . , , . u j rooms. The shortcake is also made with one 

with fruit sauces; often with a layer of crushed * v, • u . » 1 11 

witu 11 u" =><»"-= . -I layer of berries between two layers of cake, only 

macaroons on top. ,. . j- u • tj„,.u a few berries put on top for decoration. The 

A favorite mode of serving this dish in North ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^_^^ ^ ^^ 

Germany, is to take pure fresh milk, fill it into 

the cups or dishes to be served in, and set in a 655.-INDIVIDUAL SHORTCAKE. 

warm place till the milk thickens, using no ren- Bake the tea biscuit mixture given in No. 653, 

net. After it has thickened, it is set on ice to or other cake mixtures, in muffin rings on a pan. 



74 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

Split the cakes, and finish like the large short- Prepare the same way as for No. 244. Bake on 
cakes. sheets as for Jelly Roll No. 304. Let cool; re- 

Another way is to bake patty cases (see Nos. mo'o Ae paper, spread thickly with fresh or pre- 

130 and 131); fill the baked cases with crushed served fruits; or use the fillings Nos. in to 123, or 

and sweetened berries, and finish the top and fcuit jams. Roll in, like Jelly Roll; cut in slices, 

sides with whipped cream. and serve with plain cream or cream sauce. This 

656.-STRAWBERRY MERINGUE. 's * favorite roll, used much in lunch rooms and 

Bake a sheet of the layer cake mixtures, or of wstaurants. 
the biscuit mixture No. 653, rather thick; spread 663.— TIPSY PARSON, 

with berries and cover thickly with meringue No. Take a piece of sponge cake, round or square, 
93. Cut the cake in portions, using a knife dip° about one inch thick and two inches wide. Moisten 
ped in water. Place the pieces on another sheet with sherry wine and place in the pudding dish, 
so they do not touch each other, dust with pow- Cover with a thick cream sauce, or a bailed cus- 
dered sugar and put on double pans in the oven to tard, and serve. 

color nicely. Serve with cream or custard sauce. A more elaborate way is to bake cake in pnd- 

657.— BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE. ^'°g ^°'^^^ °^ ""ffi" "°p- ™' o"* ^^^ centre, fiU 

RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE with fruit of any kind in a rich syrup or wine. 

Red raspberries, black raspberries and black- Cover with whipped cream, and decorate with 
berries may be used the same way as given for ^^"^y macaroons. ^ 
Strawberry Shortcake. 564.— FLOATING ISLAND. 

658.— PEACH SHORTCAKE. TRIFLE 

Very ripe and mellow peaches may be used This dish is made in various ways. It may be 
fresh peeled and cut in thin slices, sweetened served in the sherbet glasses or deep saucers; and 
and put between the layers and on top of the cake, for a large party in a large cut glass bowl, 
like strawberries. Other peaches should be Prepare a boiled custard, or the English cream 
stewed in a light syrup before using. Serve with sauce; flavor with sherry or Madeira. Fill the 
plain or whipped cream. glass nearly two-thirds with the custard. Dip a 

639.— BANANA SHORTCAKE. P'^'^^ °^ '^^^^ (biscuit, or ladyfinger, or macaroon) 

Prepare the same way as for Strawberry Short- « *™'' °' ^'"^ =="'==• 1?^^^ '' "^ *°P °* "^« «="^- 
cake in two layers. Serve with whipped cream. ^"^^^ t^"^" ^'"^ whipped cream or meringue; 

spiinkla over a few chopped pistachio nuts, or 

660.-INDIVIDUAL PEACH MERINGUE. g.een-colored shredded almonds, or cocoanut, and 

Place a thin round slice of sponge cake in the gg^yg 
bottom of the dish. Put half a preserved peach —FRUIT FLOATS 

on the cake, with a little of the juice or syrup. . 

Pour some boiled custard No. 634 around the P'"" ^'°^'= "= J^""^ °' ^""'^^ ^=^'=° ^'g'^* ^^ 
peach. Take the meringue No. 93 and with bag ""^^^ "^'^^ meringue or whipped cream, to make 

and star tube place a border and netting over the **"«■" °* ^ ^'s'^'" *^''!"'^=- '^'^=3' "° ^«""='^ «=°''^' 

- ., ■, T-. 1- I ^1 • ^1- It with a custard or whipped cream- 

fruit and cream. Brown hghtly in the oven, let v-uai^.u ^x wun^i^cii i,icaui 

cool and serve. 666.— CREAM MERINGUE. 

Other fruits may be served in the same manner. MERINGUE A LA CREME. 

661.— PINEAPPLE MERINGUE. Prepare meringue shells same as for Easter 

Spread on one sheet of cake a layer of pastry eggs (see No. 381). Fill each half with whipped 

cream, and on top of the cream spread the Pine- cream, place a couple of maraschino cherries in 

apple Filling No. 121 ; cover with meringue No. 93. the centre, put both halves together. Make an 

Cut like Strawberry Meringue No. 656, and brown oblong border of whipped cream on the dish, nest 

lightly in the oven. Serve with orange cream fashion; place the egg in the centre, and serve, 

gauce. ^ more elaborate way is to serve the shells in 

All the fruit jams may be served in this man- a nest of spun sugar, 

ner. The nut creams, orange and lemon creams, 667.— MERINGUE BASKETS WITH WHIP- 

the Floradora cream, etc., may be used for a PED CREAM. 

variety of kinds, with fresh or preserved fruit. CORBEILLE CHANTILLY 

662.— COLD SPONGE ROLL, WITH CREAM Prepare the baskets (see No. 317); fill with 

OR FRUIT. Charlotte Russe cream No. 602, or thecre^m No. 

Take twenty-four eggs, one and one-half pounds 631. Decorate with fruit or candied flbwers, 

of sugar, and one and one-half pounds of flour. Serve on lace paper doylies. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



73 



068.— EASTER EGGS WITH CREAM. 
Prepare the shells from the sponge or meringue 
mixtures No. 312 or No. 381. Fill with pastry 
cream, put together; ice with chocolate, pink, or 
other colors; decorate and serve in a nest of whip- 
ped cream or spun sugar. 

669.— BASKETS OF FRUIT WITH WHIP- 
PED CREAM, 
Prepare baskets of pufi paste (see No. 396). 
fill with fruit jam, sweetened berries or peaches; 
decorate with whipped cream in basket fashion. 

670.— CORNET CHANTILLY. 

CORNUCOPIA WITH WHIPPED 
CREAM. 
Prepare the cornets a little larger than used for 
cake No. 341. Fill with cream No. 602. Deco- 
rate with whipped cream in cornet fashion and 
some fresh or candied fruits. 

Another way is to use pu£f paste. Roll and 
bake on a pointed tube or stick (see No, 385), and 
decorate as above. 

671.— CREAM ROLLS. 

CANNELONS A LA CREME. 
Prepare the same wa; as for No. 385; or make 
large wafers (see No. 341). Fill with pastry or 
whipped creamj and serve. 

672.— CORNETS OF FRUIT. 
CANNELONS. 
Fill the cannelons or comets with fruit, fresh 
crushed and sweetened berries, or with fruit jam, 
and serve on a bed of whipped cream, or with 
vanilla cream sauce. 

673. PHILIPPINOS. 
Prepare round meringue shells like No. 381. 
Let dry, and ice with chocolate. Fill with nut 
cream No. 112. Serve with a white cream sauce, 
or sauce No. 445. 

674.— AFRICANS AU CHOCOLAT. 
OTHELLOS. 
DESDEMONAS. 
Prepare the same way as given in Nos 312 to 
315. , Make larger to serve one to a portion. 
Serve in a border of whipped cream. 

675.— BOSTON CREAM PUFFS WITH 

WHIPPED CREAM. 
Prepare the pu£Es from mixture No. 309. Large 
Size. Cut ofE the top, 611 with whipped cream 
and decorate with cherries and angelica. 
676.— CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 
COFFEE ECLAIRS. 
VANILLA ECLAIRS. 
Make tue Eclairs in large size, to serve one for 
a portion, from mixture No. 309. Ice chocolate, 
co£Eee or vanilla. Fill with whipped cream, and 
Eerve in a layer of the same cream. 



677.— B ABAS (COLD). 

SAVARIN PUDDING (COLD). 
The Babas, Savarins and Timbales given in the 
hot puddings may be also served cold, with whip- 
ped cream or rich cream sauce. 

678.— VACHERINE MERINGUE. 
AMERICAN MERINGUE. 
From the paste No. 94 make rings of even size, 
dress on greased or waxed pans and dry very crisp 
in a cool oven. Put three or four rings together 
with a firm frjit jam, and decorate with royal 
icing in several colors; or make the rings of a tri- 
colored meringue Place into the pudding dish 
and fill the centre in pyramid form with whipped 
cream, swsetened and mixed with nuts or crushed 
almonds. Serve in a border of whipped cream. 

679.— VACHERINE IN WAFER CASES. 

Prepare cases from mixture No. 341. (They 
are best made with stencils of cardboard, as ex- 
plained in No. 341.) Bake long strips, the size 
of the Charlotte forms, and bend around the form. 
Make tops and bottoms from the same paste, stamp 
out with a cutter, while hot. Fasten the bottom 
with icing. Fill with Charlotte Russe mixture 
No. 602, mixed with browned almonds; put on 
the top, turn upside down. Ice with fondant; or 
serve like a Charlotte, decorated with whipped 
cream and some bright red currant jelly. 



SWEET OMELETS AND FRITTERS. 

680.— OMELET SOUFFLE, AMERICAN 
STYLE. 

Take six whites of eggs, four yolks, vanilla 
extract, and four ounces of sugar 

Beat the whites to a meringue, adding a part of 
the sugar. Stir the yolks with the other part of 
the sugar, and- add the vanilla. Keep out a little 
of the meringue for decoration. Mix the yolks 
and sugar lightly in the other part. Rnb a little 
butter on an oval omelet dish, and pile on the 
mixture, high and long, in omelet shape. Make 
a dent along the top, to facilitate quick baking. 
Decorate with the balance of the meringue. 
Dust with sugar. Set on another platter, and 
bake in a good heat (range or bake oven), for from 
twelve to fourteen minutes, and serve at once. 

The omelet can be made with fruit, cherries, 
berries or peaches, placed on the dish along the 
centre and covered with the preparation. It Toay 
also be baked in small individual paper cases. 

681.— OMELET CELESTINE. 

8 ozs. flour, 2 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. butter melted, 

2 ozs. powdered macaroons or cake crumbs, 

6 yolks, 4 whites of eggs beaten firm, a little milk 

to mix, vanilla or orange extract. 

Mix flour, sugar and crumbs, add a part of the 



76 



PAUL Richard's book of breads, cakbs, PrisxRiES, ices and sweetmeats. 



milk, the yolks and the melted batter; add more 
milk to make a thin batter; adding the whites of 
eggs the last thing. Put some butter in the fry- 
ing pan; fry thin cakes on both sides; spread with 
fruit jam; roll each cake up like jelly roll; dust 
with powdered sugar. Put on a cross pattern with 
the red hot fire poker, and serve at once. 

682.— APPLE FRITTERS. 
Prepare the paste No. 108. Peel and core tart 
cooking apples. Cut in even slices; dip the slices 
in the batter and drop in hot grease, Fry to a 
nice color, or until the apples are soft. Dust with 
sugar and cinnamon; serve hot. 

683.— APPLE FRITTERS, PRINCESSE. 

Peel and core some nice tart apples. Cut each 
apple in even slices; simmer the slices in a light 
syrup till soft. Cut thin slices of bread, and 
stamp out pieces the size of the apples; spread 
each slice with a firm fruit jam, and sandwich a 
slice of apple between two of bread. Dip in the 
batter No. 108, and fry like the others. No. 682. 
Roll in sugar and cinnamon, and serve. 
684— PEACH FRITTERS. 

Peel and cut the peaches in halves (large 
peaches in quarters), or use the preserved fruit. 
Dip in batter, and fry like the Apple Fritters 
No. 682. 

685.— PEAR FRITTERS. 

Prepare the pears the same way as for the com- 
pote No. 35 (or use the canned fruit), and pro- 
ceed as for Apple Fritters No. 682. 

686.— ORANGE FRITTERS. 
Peel and divide the oranges in quarters; remove 
the seeds and the white skin; simmer in a light 
syrup; drain on sieve. Dip in batter and fry like 
the other fritters (see No. 682), Use the syrup 
with the juice of some oranges for the sauce. 

687.— PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Prepare the compote No. 49, or use preserved 
sliced pineapple Fry like other fritters (see No. 
682). 

688.— BERRY FRITTERS. 

Prepare the paste No. 81 rather soft. Roll out 
and cut out rounds. Wash with egg. Place some 
sweetened berries, or fruit jam, in the centre; 
place another round of paste on top, and press 
the sides close together. After the fritters are all 
prepared dip in batter No. 108, and fry as usual 
(see No. 682 ). Serve with a cream sance. 

689.— BANANA FRITTERS. 
Peel and cut the bananas in halves; split each 
half in two pieces; dip in batter, and fry as usual 
(see No. 682 ). Glaze with a rum icing, or serve 
with a clear ram sauce, or cream sauce with sliced 
almonds. 



690.— QUEEN FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. 
Prepare the paste No. 104. Drop the batter, 
with a spoon, into the hot grease in the shape of 
small eggs; fry to a nice color; let drain, and 
serve hot with a vanilla cream sauce. 

691.— QUEEN FRITTERS WITH ALMONDS. 
Prepare the same batter. No. 104. Drop the 
paste in finely-chopped almonds, and fry as 
directed in No. 690. These fritters may be filled 
with pastry cream, as in cream pufis, and served 
without sauce. 

692.— CREAM FRITTERS. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FRITTERS. 
ALMOND CREAM FRITTERS. 
NUT CREAM FRITTERS. 

Make the pastry cream No. 127. Use four 
ounces of cornstarch to each quart of milk. 
Pour while hot into a buttered, flat, square pan, to 
one and one-half inches of thickness. Let cool, 
without stirring. When cold and firm, warm the 
pan a moment and turn the cream onto a board. 
Cut in two-inch squares or diamonds. Dip each 
piece in thin batter, and fry to a light color. 

This cream may be made into a nut or almond 
cream; or, by adding chocolate to the milk, it can 
be made into a chocolate cream, making Chocolate, 
or Almond, or Nut Cream Fritters. 

Instead of using the batter No. loS, the fritters 
may be dipped in beaten eggs, and rolled in bread 
or cracker crumbs before frying. 

693.— RING FRITTERS. 
Take paste No. 105. Put it into pastry bag, 
and, using a large star tube, dress in large rings 
on a round greased paper the size of the frying 
pan. Turn the paper with the rings over in the 
hot grease, the paper side up. The paper will 
come off the paste in a short time. Take it out 
and use again to dress more rings on. Turn the 
rings over in the grease several times till well 
done. Serve the rings, hot or cold, with a cream 
sauce, or with whipped cream. 

694.— CABINET FRITTERS. 

Bake the Cabinet Pudding I^o. 484 in a shallow 
pan; let cool, tarn from the pan; cut in squares or 
oblongs, and fry like the Cream Fritters No. 692. 
Serve with a wine or fruit sauce. 

The Rice Cakes, Farina and Sago Cakes, given 
in the Puddings, may be made into fritters in the 
same manner. 

69s,— RICE FRITTERS. 

Prepare the plain boiled rice No. 546, and let 

simmer with some cream to a firm consistency. 

Let cool, at^dform into round balls; flatten a little 

and make s. dent in the centre; dip in beaten eggs 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BRBADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



77 



and roll in bread crumbs. Fry in hot grease to a 
Dice color. Fill the dent with fruit jam or jelly, 
and serve with vanilla cream sauce. 

696.— PUFF PASTE FRITTERS. 
RISSOLES. 
Prepare as directed in No. 388, except fry in 
hot grease, instead of baking on a pan. Serve 
with cream sauce. 

697.— VERMICELLI OR NOODLE FRITTERS. 
Prepare the Vermicelli or Noodle Cake No. 529. 
Let cool, and fry cut in squares like Rice Fritters 
No. 695, or Cream Fritters No. 692. 

698.— SAVARIN FRITTERS. 
Bake the savarin in a flat pan, or in the small 
savarin molds (see No. 408). Cut the cake in 
squares. (Use the small ones whole.) Dip in 
maraschino syrup, let soak, dip in beaten eggs 
and fry to a nice color. Serve with rum or cream 
sauce. 

699.— FRENCH TOAST. 

Cut stale bread in thick square slices, saturate 
with a custard made of one quart of milk, two 
ounces of sugar, four eggs; flavor lemon and mace, 
or vanilla. Fry in a shallow pan on both sides, 
dust with sugar and cinnamon, and serve. 

A nice rich fruit sauce is also well suited for 
this toast. 



700.— CANNELONS. 

PUFF PASTE FRITTERS. 
Roll out paste No. 76, 78, or 79, into a thin 
sheet. Cut in pieces three inches wide and four 
inches long. Wash the edges, spread some fruit 
jam in the centre and roll up. Press the sides 
and ends well together, and set on ice to rest for 
fifteen minutes. Fry in hot grease, let drain, dust 
with sugar, and serve with a nice liquor sauce. 

701.— GERMAN FRITTERS. 
ARME RITTER. 
Bake some small oval or finger-shaped rolls. 
While hot, as soon as baked, take a grater or rasp, 
and grate off all the hard crust. Soak the rolls in 
a custard (as made for No. 699). Fry in hot lard, 
and serve with wine sauce. 

702.— FRIED CRUSTS WITH FRUIT. 
CROUTES AUX FRUITS. 

Cut stale bread in round-, oval-, or heart-shaped 
slices. Fry in hot la/d or butter to a nice color. 
Serve with a compote of fruit of any kind; or 
serve with sauce polonaise, or a macedoine that 
contains plenty of fruit. 

Another way of making the croutes, is to sand- 
wich two slices of bread together with fruit jam, 
or with any of the nut cream fillings (see Nos. 
Ill to 121). Soak in a custard and fry in lard, 
like the Cream Fritters No. 692. Serve with fruit 
or wine sauce. 



END OF PART FOUR. 



Part 5. 



703.-ICE CREAM MAKING. 

The best and richest Ice Creams are made from 
double cream, with the addition of yolks of eggs, 
sugar and flavorings; while some of the cheapest 
commercial creams are made from milk only, with- 
out eggs, and are thickened with gelatin, corn- 
starch, arrowroot, sago and other preparations. 

The rich creams are known as NEAPOLITAN or 
ITALIAN creams, and also as FRENCH creams. 
The original creams of this class were frozen in 
the old time hand freezers and worked with the 
spatula. This process makes a firm and more 
solid cream, and is in general use in Europe; 
while over here the patent freezers are used, 
which produce a more bulky and lighter kind of 
Ice Cream. 

The rich creams which contain eggs and cream 
frozen in patent freezers are also termed NEW 
YORK creams, and the lighter creams, made from 
the best cream and without eggs, PHILADEL- 
PHIA creams. 

Select a good Ice Cream freezer. There are 
good ones, and others not worth the material 
they are made of. BUY THE BEST. A good 
copper freezing can is a little expensive at first, 
but is the best, because it can be retinned as often 
as required; while freezing cans of tinned iron or 
steel are often an entire loss. When the tin wears 
off, they get rusty and discolor the creams and ices. 

The ice tub should be wide enough to have four 
inches or more of space around the freezing can 
for the ice and salt. Have two holes made in the 
tub — a small half -inch hole about one inch below 
the top of the freezing can, which is left open 
during the freezing, to prevent the brine from 
getting into the cream: the other, a larger hole, 
near the bottom, with a plug in it to let out the 
brine. 

Other tools which are required are Ice Shovel 
and Salt Scoop, also a long wooden Paddle or 
Spatula, Ice Crusher, Packing Cans and Tubs, 
and an Ice Cave or Freezing Closet. 

The Ice Cave is to keep the molded creams from 
the time they are taken from the forms until they 
are served. And the cave is also required for 
freezing Biscuit Glaces, Mousses and other creams 
which are served in the cases they are frozen in. 

The Ice Caves are made in sizes to hold from 
four to forty quarts. They are generally made 
from galvanized iron, with changeable shelves and 
racks. The cave is set into a wooden tub, or in a 



square zinc-lined box, large enough to leave about 
four inches of space around the cave for the ice 
and salt; also provided with a plugged-up hole 
near the bottom to let out the water. 

To freeze the cream : Set the can in the centre 
of the tub on the pin on which it revolves; cover 
and pack with ice and salt, in proportion of one 
part of salt to from three to four parts of ice. 
Start the machine, or turn the crank, at a slow 
even speed, A slow motion freezes the cream 
more rapidly than a fast motion will. Too much 
speed is often injurious to the cream, and is liable 
to churn it into butter, or make it coarse. The 
time of freezing differs according to the richness 
of the mixtures and the strength of the brine, but 
it can be timed by the clock, if uniform mixtures 
are used. 

When the cream is frozen, remove the dasher, 
scrape down and work well with the spatula. 

One kind of cream can be made into the differ- 
ent varieties after it is frozen to this point, by 
adding Crushed Fruits, Nuts, Coloring and Flavor. 
After this the cream may be transferred in pack- 
ing cans, or left in the freezing can and packed in 
ice and salt for one hour or more to ripen. This 
makes the cream richer and of better flavor. 

The rich Creams and Ices which contain much 
sugar are not suited for molding. To obtain a 
firm cream for this purpose, one pound and twelve 
ounces of sugar to the gallon of cream is the most 
suitable amount to be used, especially for large 
pieces. 

The WATER ICES cannot be exactly gradu- 
ated by measuring the water and weighing the 
sugar for molding, and practical Ice Cream 
makers use the saccharimeter, or syrup scale, to 
obtain uniform results. 

When Ices are made in large quantities, the 
syrup scale should be used. It is the only means 
to ascertain if the quality is correct. 

Fruits require syrups of different richness, 
according to the sweetness or acidity they contain. 
The thickness of the syrups change with the 
temperature, and a standard has been adopted at 
which the syrups must be weighed; the hot syrup 
must be cooled down to 80° Fahr., which is best 
suited for fruit syrups. 

The Beaum^ syrup scale is graduated from one 
to fifty-five degrees, and at a temperature of 8o» 
Fahr. of the syrup, this list is best suited for fruit 
Ices: 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



79 



Lemon 


9) 


Peach 


fl> 


Oranee 


E 


Apricot 


E 


Currant 


a 


Strawberries 


a 


Pineapple 
Grape Fruit 


s 


Raspberries 


CQ 


Plums 


Cantaloupe 
Watermelon 




Cherries 




8 


Grapes 
Apples 


So 

M 



To test the syrup, fill a high narrow vessel, or 
a glass stand of about ten to twelve inches in 
height, with it, and set in a pail of water of 8o° 
Fahr. When the syrup is of the same tempera- 
ture, put in the scale. If the syrup requires more 
sugar, the scale will sink below the given degree, 
and more sugar should be added until it comes up. 



If it contains too much sugar, the scale rises above °^ ice till wanted. 



water for a moment, and put them back in the 
ice cave; this process forms a thin transparent 
crust, which resembles the skin of the fruit, be- 
sides keeping the frozen cream in better shape. 

With a variety of small forms for fruits and 
flowers, and a couple of large forms for freezing 
baskets, vases and stands from colored water or 
ices, many nice centre pieces may be produced. 

The unmolding of the creams should be done 
in a cold place and as speedily as possible to pre- 
vent the softening of the creams. The dishes on 
which the creams are served should also be kept 



the required degree, and more water is added un- 
til it comes down to it. 

For the large fancy pieces, and also for the 
smaller forms, fill the molds solid with the Creams 
or Ices to prevent air-holes. Fill each half of the 
form a little more than full and press both sides 
well together. The large molds should be sealed 



It is best to serve molded creams on lace paper 
doylies, to prevent sliding on the plates. 

For flavoring, use the fresh fruits as much as 
possible; and, if not in season, the preserved fruit 
and fruit juices, vanilla beans, and the rind of 
oranges and lemons. 

There are very many good extracts of vaoilla. 



with butter and tied with a string or wire, to pre- lemons and oranges, but strawberry, raspberry, 



vent the salt getting into the cream. The small 
individual forms hardly require these precautions, 
if they are close fitting. Brick molds should be 
made to have two covers, that is, top and bottom; 
and the covers should fit OVER the mold, not 



pineapple, and many other extracts should be 
used with caution, as the most of them are made 
artificial, and after some time turn rancid and 
become unfit for use. 
The use of colors is often required to obtain the 



IN the mold. The form opening on both sides right shade in molding, and it is cheapest and 



makes it easy to take out the frozen creams. 

When filling the brick molds, line the bottom 
with manilla paper, fill the form a little more than 
full, level it and place another piece of paper on 
the top; press the cover down well, tie up and 
pack in ice and salt. 

The large molds take from two to four hours to 
freeze; the small individual molds may be frozen 
in from fifteen to thirty minutes. 

To unmold the creams: Wipe off the brine, dip 
the form for a moment in warm water; wipe dry, 
and slip the cream onto a platter, or on the table. 
The bricks may be cut in slices as ordered, or all 
cut in portions, each slice wrapped in wax paper, 
ready to serve, and kept in the ice cave. 



best to buy the colors ready made. 

THE STORING AND KEEPING OF CREAMS 
AND ICES. 

Where several kinds of creams and ices are 
kept on hand, it is profitable to have a storage box 
built with double sides like an ice box, lined with 
zinc, and large enough to keep the creams packed 
in ice and salt. It is best to make a box like this 
in two or three partitions, each with a separate 
outlet in the bottom to let out the brine; so they 
all may be used at one time, or one part of it 
only, if business is slack and to save ice. 

Lately storage boxes have come into use in 
hotels where they have a cold storage system. 



While many of the colors may be produced by Where the brine system is used in place of ice 



using the different creams and ices in molding, 
some of the fancy figures require a little touching 
up with artificial colors. The colors are diluted 
with a little syrup. A small brush is used for 
painting. Some colors are also used in powder 



and salt, the cover of the storage box should be 
made in sections, and with a double lid, the outer 
cover to be fastened with hinges, and the inside 
cover (which has to be opened only when the 
cream is to be repacked) to lift out. In the in- 



form, put in a muslin bag, which is very handy side cover are to be cut circular openings to fit 
for making red cheeks on fruit and figures, etc. over the packing cans, which also may be covered. 
To make fruits and flowers look still more This is the best kind of box for storing and keep- 
ing creams, and saves ice and money. 
Porcelain lined cans are the best for keeping 
can be bought all the year around in supply ices and creams. The best tinned cans, if the 

creams are kept for a longer time, cause an un- 
pleasant metallic taste, while poorly tinned cans 
spoil and discolor the creams. 



natural, fresh leaves and stems are used when in 
season. The artificial leaves, stems and petals 



stores. 

Some Ice Cream makers dip the creams which 
represent frozen fruits, after painting, in cold 



So 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Bulk Ice Creams and Ices should be worked 
over once or twice a day to prevent graining, and 
repacked as often as required. 

OTHER POINTS IN ICE CREAM MAKING. 

All the Ice Creams lose in bulk if they are 
worked over, or transferred into other cans, after 
they have been frozen hard and ripened for some 
time. They become more solid. For this reason 
it is more profitable to the Ice Cream maker to 
transfer his creams as much as possible to the 
cans in which it is sent out in while it is still soft 
and light; that is, at the time when the dasher has 
been removed from the freezing can, after it has 
been worked with the spatula and the flavor added, 
and let the Cream ripen in the cans. 

TO SAVE ICE IN HOT WEATHER wrap 
or cover boxes and tubs with wet bags. 

In cold weather, if the freezing proceeds too 
slow, and the ice won't melt, take some old brine 
and pour it over the ice and salt in the freezing- 
tub; this will make it freeze faster. 

To hasten the freezing of molded creams, use 
very finely crushed ice and mix with a strong brine. 

Coarse salt and sea salt are best for freezing. 
The fine salt, if it has to be used, should be well 
mixed with the ice, otherwise it will form in lumps 
and prevent freezing. 

The finer the crushed ice, the faster the freezing. 

High, narrow freezing cans make creams freeze 
quicker, because they have more freezing surface 
than a low, wide can. They freeze faster and save 
ice. 

Ice Creams made without being heated require 
less sugar and freeze faster, than the rich creams 
made by the hot process. 

Ice Creams made from double cream and by the 
cold process require close attention in freezing. 
These creams should be frozen only till they begin 
to stand up on the dasher like whipped cream — not 
more. More freezing would make this cream 
coarse and run into butter — spoil it. 

Very rich creams which contain eggs, also re- 
quire more sugar. 

Rich Creams and Water Ices freeze slower and 
require more salt in freezing and packing. Too 
much sugar prevents freezing, not enough sugar 
makes them coarse, like snow. 

Keep all the utensils used perfectly clean, scour- 
ing and scalding them as often as possible. 

BRINE FREEZING. 

The ice machine is coming more and more into 
use in the modem hotel and restaurant. They 
are used for refrigerating, cold storage and ice 
making; and some hotels have applied this system 
also for freezing and storing Ice Creams and Ices. 

My experience of brine freezing has been con- 



fined to two Southern hotels, and I cannot say that 
the system always worked satisfactory, or as good, 
or better, than the ice-and-salt-freezing process. 

We had much trouble to keep the brine at an 
even low temperature; and a rising temperature 
would cause the frozen creams to become too soft 
in the storage box; and sometimes it was very 
difficult to freeze the creams hard enough to be 
served. 

Mechanical refrigerating is practically a new 
industry, and I think the engineers were not quite 
familiar with the new machine, as they were both 
newly installed in the hotels. A part of our 
trouble may have been due to this fact. Or it 
may have been because Ice Cream freezing and 
storing require a lower temperature than the 
ordinary cold storage and ice making, and the 
machine did not have the capacity to cool the ice 
boxes and freeze the creams at the same time. 

The most trouble we had was caused by the 
freezing or choking up of the valves or coils. 
This is due to small particles of moisture which 
enter with the gas from the compressor, which 
gradually accumulates at the bottom of the re- 
frigerating coil, or at the expansion or regulator 
valve. 

If the choking occurs on the valve, it can be 
cleared away quickly by throwing the valve open 
to its fullest extent. 

To clear the refrigerating coil is more trouble- 
some, and requires the shutting down of the ma- 
chine for some hours. 

It is also necessary about every three or four 
weeks to clean the separator, to keep the machine 
in good working order. 

Other times, the machine being short of gas, 
caused a rising temperature of the brine, and 
made us trouble. 

BRINE. 

Sodium chloride (common salt) and calcium 
chloride is used for brine making. Calcium 
chloride is a by-product of chemical works, and 
is obtained in large quantities in the making of salt 
and ammonia. Both salts are very much alike in 
character; the common salt is mostly used. 

One objection to the sodium chloride brine is 
that it rusts the ice tanks and coils immersed in it, 
and causes considerable wear. This is avoided by 
using a calcium chloride brine. 

A suitable brine for all freezing purposes can be 
made in proportions of four pounds of salt to one 
gallon of water. It is best to mix the brine in a 
separate vessel, and then put it in the freezing tub 
or storage tank. Calcium chloride is used in the 
same proportions, and dissolves best in warm water. 

As brine is absorbing water from the atmo- 
sphere, it is necessary, in order to keep it at its 



PAUL RlLIHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



8i 



proper strength, to add more salt or calcium 
chloride from time to time. 

For measuring the density of the brine a salino- 
meter is used; also the Beaum^ scale. Salino- 
meters are correct at a temperature of 60' F., 
and to weigh the brine, it must be either warmed 



be tilted backward, which feature permits the 
setting in and lifting of the freezing can without 
moving the tub. This style of freezer is very 
much inferior to the others mentioned. The con- 
struction is faulty; the dasher works badly, leaves 
a thick crust on sides and bottom; and this makes 



up or cooled down to this degree before a proper it very hard on the engine, and takes longer to 



test of its density can be made. The density of 
the brine should be about 90" by the salinometer, 
and 23' Beaum^ at 60' F. 

TEMPERATURE OF BRINE FOR FREEZ- 
ING. 

The object of using brine for freezing is to 
obtain a liquid capable of carrying a lower 
temperature than 32° F. without freezing. 

For ice making, the temperature of the brine is 
lowered to from 8 to 16 degrees F. ; 14 degrees F. 
being the usual temperature. For the freezing of 
Ice Creams and Water Ices a temperature of 
from 5 to 8 degrees F. is generally used, and for 
storing the frozen creams a temperature from 8 to 
12 degrees F. has been giving the best satisfaction. 

THE FREEZING PROCESS. 

The freezing process is very simple, and is 
similiar to the ice and salt process. The ordinary 
ice cream freezers are used, and only a wider 
tub is required, into which an expansion coil of 
two-inch pipe is placed, which circulates the gas 
to cool the brine. The tub is filled with brine, 
sufficient to come about two inches below the top 
of the freezing can. 

The cold is turned on, and when the brine has 
attained the proper degree for freezing, the can 
with the contents to be frozen is set into the brine; 
the gear is adjusted and set in motion, same as in 
the ice-and-salt-freezing process. When sufficiently 
frozen, the creams are transferred to the storage 
box, as usual. 

FREEZERS FOR BRINE FREEZING. 

The best kind of Ice Cream freezers, which are 
used by all practical Ice Cream makers, are an 
improved style of the old Seaman pattern. These 
machines are the easiest running and are giving 
the best satisfaction. They are made like a drill 
press. But these machines are not adapted for 
brine freezing, because they require a movable 
freezing tub; and in brine freezing the tub is 
stationary on account of the coil attached to it. 
There is no doubt that in the future the makers 
of these machines will alter them, so they are 
available for brine freezing; but at the present 
time they have not done so, at least, not to my 
knowledge. 

The kind of freezer we were using at these 
hotels were of the W. M. pattern. The gear can 



freeze, causing loss of cream and many other in- 
conveniences. But with all the faults, we had to 
use this kind, because it permitted the use of a 
stationary tub. 

BRINE STORAGE FOR ICE CREAMS. 

The storage tank can be made of heavy iron 
plate, which is the most durable; or a box may be 
constructed of wood and lined with galvanized 
sheet iron or zinc, with the same insulation as is 
used for other refrigerators. The expansion coils 
are placed around the inside of the tank, and a 
framework constructed and fastened in the tank 
to support the cans, with clutches to hold them in 
the brine. 

The most practical storage cans for this pur- 
pose are made of heavy cast iron, porcelain-lined. 
These cans are held down in the brine by their 
own weight, while the lighter cans are trouble- 
some to use. 

Brine freezing is very handy, because it saves 
labor; no crushing of ice and no packing and re- 
packing of the storage boxes is required. It also 
saves salt, because the brine can be used con- 
tinuously, by occasionally readjusting its density. 

For re-freezing brick and fancy Ice Creams the 
brine is not practical, because the brine is apt to 
enter the creams during freezing; but after they 
are frozen they may be kept in the brine storage 
box. 

704.— ITALIAN ICE CREAM. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 
I gallon double cream, ■2.'% lbs. granulated sugar, 

32 yolks of eggs, two fine-cut vanilla beans. 

To get the best flavor of the vanilla bean, it 
should be heated to the boiling point in one quart 
of the cream and let infuse for one hour. Put 
the sugar in a basin or a sauce pan, add the yolks 
and beat well together, add the cream gradually, 
set on the fire and keep stirring till the yolks be- 
gin to thicken. Take off the fire, add the one 
quart with the vanilla; strain and cool. Put the 
mixture in the freezing can and freeze nice and 
smooth. 

The most difficult part in compounding these 
creams, is to heat cream, sugar and yolks to the 
point at which the yolks begin to thicken. The 
yolks should lose the raw egg taste, but not boiL 
A little more heat would cause the eggs to curdle 
and prevent proper amalgamation of cream and 



82 



PADL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



eggs. Some makers of Ice Creams set three-parts 
of the cream on the fire with half of the sugar; 
beat the yolks light with the other half of the 
sugar, and thin up with a part of the hot cream; 
put eggs and cream together, and, as soon as it 
begins to thicken, check the boiling by adding the 
one part of cold cream, which had been left out 
for this purpose. The cream is then strained, 
cooled and frozen as usual. 

705.— FRENCH CREAMS. 
The French creams are made in the same man- 
ner as the Italian creams; but the preparations 
differ considerable in richness. While some of 
the creams of this class are made of cream only 
in connection with eggs; others are made of half 
milk and half cream, and some of milk only, with 
plenty of eggs, like a frozen custard. 

706.— FRENCH CREAM. NO. 1. 

1 gallon cream, 2 lbs. sugar, 24 yolks, 
2 vanilla beans split and cut in small pieces. 
Prepare the same as directed in No. 704. 

707.— FRENCH CREAM. NO. 2. 
NEW YORK CREAM. 

2 quarts milk, 2 quarts cream, i^ lbs. sugar, 

16 whole eggs, flavoring. 
Make into a custard same as directed in No. 704 
Strain, cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

708.— FRENCH CREAM. NO. 3. 
FROZEN CUSTARD. 
I gallon milk, i ^ lbs. sugar, little salt, flavoring 
12 whole eggs and 12 yolks. 
Prepare as directed in No. 704; or, beat sugar 
and eggs well together, add the milk, and set the 
basin with the mixture in another pan with boil- 
ing water, stirring constantly till the thickening 
takes place. Strain, cool, flavor and freeze. 

709 —PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

This name is generally applied to Ice Creams 
made with pure cream, and without any eggs, 
although some makers use about five eggs to each 
gallon of cream, with two pounds of sugar. 

The cream and sugar is heated near the boiling 
point, cooled and frozen. 

The heating of the cream is the best method, 
for it gives more body to the cream and makes it 
smoother. 

If the sugar is dissolved in the cream without 
heating, the cream bulks more, but loses the fine 
texture of the heated creams. 

710.— COMMERCIAL ICE CREAMS. 
Where quantity is more required than quality, 
the creams are made from plain cream, half milk 
and half cream, and of milk only. Starch, arrow- 



root and sago flour, in proportion from three to 
six ounces to each gallon, is boiled into a smooth 
batter, with a part of the milk and the sugar; 
strained, cooled and frozen. Gelatin should be 
soaked and dissolved in warm milk, but not boiled, 
as this would cause the milk to curdle. About 
one and one-half to two ounces of gelatin are used 
for one gallon of cream and milk. 

Another thickener for Ice Creams is used cold. 
The preparation is known to the trade as cream- 
thick, it is something like a dry milk powder. 
The thickener is mixed with the sugar to be used, 
the cold milk or cream added gradually. As soon 
as the sugar is dissolved, the cream is ready to be 
frozen. 

711.— COMMERCIAL ICE CREAM. NO. 1. 
PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

1 gallon cream, 4 eggs, i^ lbs. sugar, flavoring. 
Mix all well together cold, flavor vanilla, lemon 

or orange. Freeze as directed for cold mixtures. 

712.— PLAIN ICE CREAM. 

2 quarts milk, 2 quarts cream, 1% lbs. sugar, 

3 ozs. cornstarch, arrowroot, or sago -flour, 

4 whole eggs. 

Break the eggs in a basin and beat light with 
a small part of the sugar. Set milk and sugar on 
the fire. Dissolve the starch, or the other thick, 
ener, in a little cold milk. When the milk 
reaches the boiling point, add the starch, stir till 
it thickens and pour it over the beaten eggs, 
stirring constantly. Add the cream, strain, cool, 
flavor to suit, and freeze. 

This recipe may be made without eggs. 

To use GELATIN in the above recipe : Leave 
out the starch and soak one and one-half to two 
ounces of gelatin in some cold milk for thirty 
minutes. Heat milk and sugar, and add the 
gelatin to the warm milk; stir till dissolved; add 
the cream; strain, cool, flavor, and freeze. 

713.— PLAIN ICE CREAM, COLD PROCESS. 

I gallon plain cream, i^ lbs. sugar, 

^ oz. cream-thick. 

Or, use good fresh milk, i gallon, i}4 lbs. sugar 
and iJS^ ozs. cream-thick, flavoring. 

Mix sugar and thickener together dry; pour 
over the cream or milk, stirring constantly till the 
sugar is dissolved; flavor, color and freeze as usual- 

714.— CATERERS' STANDARD ICE CREAM, 

BEST QUALITY. 
I gallon double cream (whipping cream), flavor, 
1% lbs. sugar. 
The cream is made by the cold process, and is 
used by the best caterers as a standard prepara- 
tion from which are made many of the fancy 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



83 



creams, fruits and nut creams. It is also used for 
fancy glacis, in which case it is mixed after 
freezing- with more whipped cream, fruit pulps, 
and other flavors. It makes a very bulky and 
light cream, and almost trebles in volume. 

Add the sugar to the cream, and stir till it is 
well dissolved. Strain into the freezing-can; put 
on the cover; put some ice around the can (but 
no salt), and let the machine run slowly for five 



719.— CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM (WITH- 
OUT CREAM). 
3}i lbs. sugar, 3 ozs. gelatin, i lb. chocolate. 
I gallon water, 24 yolks. 
Soak the gelatin in one quart of the water. 
Dissolve the chocolate with half of the sugar, and 
add the water gradually and make a smooth syrup. 
Stir the yolks light with the other half of the sugar; 
add the chocolate syrup, and stir on the fire till 



or ten minutes to beat up the cream. Then put jj j^ ^^^^ ^^^ j^^.^^^ ^^.^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ ^^^-^^^ 



on salt and more ice, the regular freezing mixture, 
and let the cream freeze from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, or till it stands up on the dasher. 

More freezing is apt to spoil this cream — run it 
into butter. The cream should be light, smooth 
and soft. A little experience will soon tell how 
long to freeze this cream. 

Remove the dasher and work the mixture with 
the spatula. 

If there are any flavorings to be added, or fruits 
and nuts to be worked in, now is the time to do 
this. 

Transfer the cream in the packing cans, and let 
ripen and harden. 

715.— CATERERS' STANDARD ICE CREAM 
NO. 2. 
DELMONICO ICE CREAM. 
1 gallon double cream, 25 yolks, 2 lbs. sugar. 
This cream is made exactly like the Italian or 
French creams, and flavored as desired. 

716.— VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Flavor any of the preparations given with one 
ounce of vanilla extract to each gallon of cream. 

If vanilla beans are used, they may be strained 
from the cream, dried and pounded in a mortar 
to a powder, and used again in creams or cakes 
for flavoring. 



717.— LEMON ICE CREAM. 
ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

Grate the rind of four lemons or three oranges 
on the sugar to be used, and rub it well with the 
sugar. ( Be careful to use only the yellow part of 
the rind: the white part is extremely bitter, and 
would spoil the flavor.) A part of the juice may 
be added after the creams are frozen, but it is 
not customary to do so. 

If extracts are used, take one-halt ounce of 
extract for each gallon of cream. 

718.— CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 
Add to each gallon of cream eight ounces of 
cocoa powder or bitter chocolate; dissolve with 
the sugar and milk, or cream, on the fire, and 
make the creams by the hot process. Flavor 
vanilla and freeze as usual. 



Take off the fire, add the gelatin, stir till dissolved; 
strain, stir, cool and flavor, and freeze as usual. 
This Ice may be made without the gelatin, and 
frozen like a Granito, served with a spoonful of 
whipped cream in glasses k la Porto Rico. 

720.— SIBERIAN ICE CREAM. 
VIRGIN ICE CREAM. 
I gallon of cream, 1^ lbs. sugar, i pint white of 
eggs, flavor. 
Put the cream on the fire with half of the sugar; 
beat the whites of eggs light with the other half 
of the sugar, and mix with the cream. Stir con- 
stantly till near the boiling point (but do not let 
boil). Take off the fire and beat cold on ice; 
flavor and freeze. 

721.— COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

TEA ICE CREAM. 

3 quarts cream, i quart milk, 2 lbs. sugar, 16 yolks, 

8 ozs. fresh ground coffee. 

Let the milk come to a boil, add the cofiee and 
let infuse in a warm place in a close covered 
vessel for one hour. Prepare the other ingredi- 
ents into a custard same as for French creams; 
add the coffee and milk, strain, cool and freeze. 

The cream may be lightly flavored with vaniUa, 
and burnt sugar may be added for coloring. 

TEA ICE CREAM may be made in the same 
manner, using four ounces of good tea. Let in- 
fuse in the boiled milk for twenty minutes, and 
proceed same as for the Coffee Ice Cream. 

722.— CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 
I gallon cream, 2 lbs. sugar, 24 yolks of eggs. 
Put the sugar with one pint of water on the fire 
and boil to caramel. Turn out on the marble, let 
cool and crush very fine. Mix with the yolks and 
cream, and heat slowly to give time for the sugar 
to dissolve. Let come near the boiling point; 
strain, cool and freeze. A little vanilla flavor 
may be added to the cream. 

723.— NOUGAT ICE CREAM. 

Prepare same as for the Caramel Cream No. 722. 

When the sugar is turning into caramel mix into 

it one pound of blanched and sightly browned 

almonds; turn onto the marble, let cool, crush 



84 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



fine, or pound in mortar; finish and fieeze same 
as for the Caramel Cream. 

724.— NUT ICE CREAMS. 
Nut Creams are made in several ways. Chest- 
nuts, almonds, filberts, etc., may be used in pulp 
form and frozen with the creams. For other 
nuts, as the English walnuts and pecans, it is 
best to add the chopped nuts after the cream is 
frozen and flavored. 

725.— CHESTNUT ICE CREAM. 
MARRON GLACE. 
Use the French preserved marrons; or, take 
one pound of blanched and peeled chestnuts. 
Boil or steam till soft, and pound in the mortar 
to a smooth paste. Let this paste infuse in one 
gallon of French cream, and cool; or, add the 
paste to the cream before heating; flavor, when 
cool, with maraschino, noyeau or vanilla extract, 
and freeze as usual. 

726.— ALMOND ICE CREAM. 
FILBERT ICE CREAM. 
Blanch and pound one pound of the nuts, 
either almond or filbert, into paste, and proceed 
same as for Chestnut Cream. 

727.— PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

Prepare a paste with twelve ounces of blanched 
pistachio nuts; add the paste to one gallon of 
Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 709 before freezing. 
Color the cream a delicate green, flavor Maras- 
chino or Kirschwasser and freeze as usual. 

If pistachio nuts cannot be had, use almonds 
blanched and lightly browned, and flavor with 
extract of pistachio. 

A combination of orange flower, rose and bitter 
almond extracts have almost the same flavor as 
the genuine pistachio nuts. 

In making nut creams many makers prefer to 
roast the nuts slightly before pounding or chop- 
ping, as this brings out a more delicate flavor. 

728.— BISQUE ICE CREAM. 

GRAPENUT ICE CREAM. 
SHREDDED WHEAT ICE CREAM. 
BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM. 
Add to one gallon of French Vanilla Ice Cream 
one pound of powdered macaroons, or crushed 
and sifted wafers and meringues, which should be 
perfectly dry. 

The cream may be flavored also with sherry 
wine or maraschino. 
The Chocolate, Caramel and Coffee Ice Creams 



Shredded Wheat Biscuits; or dry some brown 
bread in the oven, crush fine with some browned 
almonds and mix with the HOT cream; cool and 
flavor vanilla or sherry, and freeze as usual. This 
makes Grapenut, Shredded Wheat or Browa 
Bread Ice Cream. 

729.— TORTONI ICE CREAM. 

Add to one gallon of Philadelphia or French 
Ice Cream, after it is frozen, an Italian Meringue 
made from one-half pint of whites of eggs and 
one pound of sugar made into syrup. Beat the 
meringue cold on ice, and add eight ounces of 
browned and sifted almonds and eight ounces of 
macaroons; mix well with the creams, let ripen, 
and serve flavored with sherry or maraschino. 

This cream may be served also in paper cases 
like the Glacis. 

730. -ICE CREAMS WITH FRUIT. 

In making Fruit Creams, the cream should be 
partly frozen before adding the fruit juice or 
pulp. 

These creams also require more sugar; other- 
wise the fruit should be sweetened before adding 
it to the frozen cream. The amount of sugar 
depends on the acidity of the fruits used. Pre- 
served fruits which contain sugar require no addi- 
tional sweetening. 

Creams which contain fruit are best kept in 
porcelain-lined cans or earthen jars. Tinned 
cans and copper vessels are cr>t to produce 
poisonous compounds in connection with fruit 
acids, and become injurious to the consumer. 

731.— STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 
I gallon cream; 2^ lbs. sugar, 4 quarts berries. 

Prepare and freeze the cream with half of the 
sugar, same as the Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 709. 
Crush the berries, rub through strainer or sieve, 
and mix with the rest of the sugar. When the 
cream is nearly frozen, add the berries, mix in 
well with the spatula and let ripen for one hour. 

Another way, is to take from the standard cream 
No. 714, or any other plain creams which contain 
the usual amount of sugar, and add sweetened and 
crushed fruit, acd some coloring, if required. 
Pack away and let ripen for one hour. 

Another way, is to mix even parts of frozen 
Fruit Ice and Ice Cream, add coloring and more 
flavor and use. 

Other Ice Creams with fruit may be made in 
the manner as given above; adding to each gallon 
of French, plain or Philadelphia Ice Cream two 
quarts of fresh or preserved sweetened fruit juice 



may also be made into Bisque Ice Creams; add- or pulp; work well in the frozen cream, and let 

ing the dried and sifted crumbs. ripen. 

Another way to make a nice Bisque Ice Cream Banana, pineapple, apples, peaches and apricots 

IS to add about half a pound of Grapenuts, or may be used, all in the same proportions. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 85 

732.— ICE CREAMS WITH LIQUORS. 736.— PINEAPPLE ICE. 

All the Ice Creams may be flavored with fancy i galloti water, 4 lbs. sugar, the juice of 8 lemons 
liquors, and also with sweet wines of a pro- and 4 oranges, 3 pints of canned grated pineapple 
nounced flavor. The most pleasant way to serve (or two fresh grated pineapples and one more 
these creams is in combination with Fruit Ices, pound of sugar) . 

or, if very rich, in liquor as a demi-glace, that is. Make the syrup as usual; add the juice of 
half frozen, with some fresh crushed and sweet- lemons, oranges and the grated pineapple; strain 
ened fruit in the bottom of the glass, or with a and freeze. 

macedoine of fruit to which liquor has been Some makers add the pineapple and freeze with- 

added, to heighten the flavor. out straining; others prefer to add the sweetened 

FRUIT WATER ICES ^°^ grated pineapple after the Ice is frozen, work- 

Fruit Ices should be rich in fruit and sugar. '°g '° '^^ *'^"'' "''^ 'he spatula. 
For this reason they are served in glasses, because 737. — STRAWBERRY ICE. 

they cannot be frozen hard like creams. 4 lbs. sugar, i gallon water, the juice of 8 oranges 

The best flavor of the fruit is obtained if the and 4 quarts of very ripe strawberries. 

Ices are prepared cold. The heating of the fruit Crush the berries and mix with one pound of 
makes them lose much of the delicate flavor. the sugar, let stand for one hour or more; make 

Mix the crushed fruit in proportion to one the water and sugar into syrup; add the juice of 
quart of simple syrup to one quart of fruit juice the oranges, mix with the crushed berries, strain 
or pulp; when the fruit syrup is thus prepared, it and freeze. 

should be tested with the syrup scale to the yjg.-RASPBERRY ICE. 

proper degree of strength, accordmg to the list ^ , ' , , „ i, . 

"^."^ . , . , ,T Take four pounds of sugar, one gallon of water, 

given in the article No. 703. „ .. c ■ , t t \ ■ ^i 

° „ , . , , „ I ,1. t -1. 1 _ the mice of six lemons, from four to six quarts of 

To heighten the flavor of the fruits, lemon or ■• . , „ , 

. . , , , , ^, .J . ,„ raspberries, and prepare same as for Strawberry 

orange ]uice may be added, or other acid in solu- , V, 

tion. The flavor of peaches, apricots, plums and ^ °' '"' 

cherries is increased by infusing some of the 739.— PEACH ICE. 

crushed kernels with the syrup. 4 lbs. sugar, i gallon water, the juice of 2 oranges. 

The more simple way of weighing and measuring about 2 quarts of crushed fruit pulp, 

the ingredients, as it is generally done, may be Mix the fruit pulp vrith a part of the sugar and 
improved by weighing the syrup before freezing, rub through a sieve. Make a syrup with the water 
The standard mixture for the best Ices, is to take and the other part of the sugar; add orange or 
one pound of sugar and one quart of water and lemon juice, to make it tart, also one drop of bitter 
make it into syrup, cool and add fruit juices and almond extract, or infuse some of the crushed 
flavor, and freeze; or, take for each pint of pulp kernels, and freeze as usual. 

or fruit juice one pint of water and one pound of APRICOT ICE. 

sugar in form of syrup. PLUM ICE. 

734. — LEMON ICE. Use from two to three quarts of fruit pulp for 

I gallon of water, 4 lbs. of sugar made into syrup, each gallon of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
the juice of 18 lemons, the grated rind of 8 lemons, and prepare same as for Peach Ice No. 739. 

Let infuse to draw the flavor, for one hour; AU kinds of plums may be made into Ices in the 
strain and freeze. same proportions, adding a little coloring and 

This Ice may be used as a standard to make some bitter almond extract. 
Fruit Ices of the best quality, using less lemons 74i._CHERRY ICE. 

and leaving out the grated rind; adding fruit ]uices ^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^_ ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ 
or pulps with appropriate colors. ^^^^ ^^^ .^.^^ ^^ ^^^^^ cherries some lemon 

735. — ORANGE ICE. juice may be added. 

I gallon water, 4 lbs. sugar, 12 oranges, 6 lemons. ^^jjg flavor of the Cherry Ice may be improved 
Prepare the same as the Lemon Ice No, 734. .^yjjjj extract of wild cherries or maraschiiio liquor. 
Use the juice of lemons and oranges, and infuse prepare and freeze same as for the other Fruit Ices, 
with the grated rind of four oranges. Add a little 
coloring and freeze as usual. 742.-GRAPE ICE. 

For small parties, cut baskets out of oranges. Use four quarts of water, four pounds of sugar, 
remove the pulp and use in the Ice. Fill the from eight to ten pounds of grapes, the juice of 
frozen Ice in the baskets, and decorate with about six lemons, 
cherries and angelica leaves. Wash the grapes well and press the juice throng 



86 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



Ae press, or mash and squeeze through a strong 
cloth. Mix the remaining pulp with the water, 
strain again, add sugar and lemon juice; freeze 
as usual. 

Some claret or white wine may be used as an 
improvement, using less water. 

743.— CURRANT ICE. 

4 quarts water, i pint raspberry juice, 4 lbs. sugar, 

I quart currant juice. 

Prepare same as for the Cherry Ice No. 741. 

744.— GRAPE FRUIT ICE. 
3 quarts water, 4 lbs. sugar, 12 grape fruits, 
4 oranges 
Prepare a syrup with the water and sugar, let 
infuse with the grated peel of six grape fruits for 
one hour. Add the juice of grape fruits and 
oranges; strain and freeze. 

745.— GRAPE FRUIT WITH MARASCHINO 
ICE. 

A favorite way to serve the grape fruit is to cut 
the fruit in halves; with a sharp knife cut out the 
centre core; fill the cavity with a rich Maraschino 
Ice or Kirschwasser Punch, and decorate with 
candied fruit. 

Another way is to place a spoonful of Lemon 
Ice in the centre, and cover with a fruit salad 
flavored with sherry or rum. 

Very large oranges or small cantaloupes may be 
served in the same manner. 

745 A.— MARASCHINO ICE. 
Prepare the Lemon Ice with four pounds of 
sugar, twelve lemons, and one gallon of water. 
Before freezing, add four beaten whites of eggs; 
freeze nice and smooth, and incorporate half a 
pint of the best maraschino with the spatula; 
then it is ready to serve. 

746.— MELON ICE. 

CANTALOUP ICE. 

Both Ices may be made after the same recipe. 
Scoop the pulp from the melons in spoonfuls, 
take out the seeds, sweeten with simple syrup 
and flavor with sherry wine. Mix syrup and pulp 
well, without crushing. Pack in ice and salt, and 
freeze without stirring. This will take about 
three hours or more Serve in glasses. 

For cantaloups the juice of oranges and brandy 
may be added in place of the sherry wine, and 
the Ice may be served in the scooped-out rind of 
the cantaloups. 

747.— FROZEN BANANAS AND ORANGES. 

Peel the oranges, remove the white skin, pull 
apart in pieces, take off all the white pith, re- 
move the seeds (or, better, use seedless oranges ). 

Peel and cut the bananas in short small strips. 



Cover the fruit with a. syrup, which may be 
flavored with rum or maraschino. Let macerate 
for a couple oT hours. Mix the fruit into a Pine- 
apple or Lemon Ice; pack in ice and salt for one 
hour, and serve in glasses, or the natural fruit 
baskets. 

748.— MACEDOINE ICES. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICES. 

These Ices are made of fresh fruits in season; 
also from combinations of fresh and preserved 
fruits, and of the candied fruits, the French 
Fruits Glaces. 

All fruits which are frozen in the Ices have to 
be soaked in a strong liquor syrup before using; 
have to macerate; otherwise, the fruit would 
freeze too nard, and be unfit for use. 

Take any combination of fruits in contrasting 
colors, to make a pleasing ei'^ct, cut in dice and 
cover with a syrup flavored with suitable liquors, 
and let stand for some hours before using. 

The Macedoine Ices are also served as a frozen 
fruit salad. Fruit Salad Glac^ as it is termed. 
The macerated fruit is mixed with a Pineapple, 
Lemon, Orange or Maraschino Ice and served 
single, or in combination with other Ices or 
Creams. 

749.— FRUIT SALAD GLACfi. 
Take oranges, bananas, pineapple, peaches, 
cherries, strawberries or raspberries, also grapes. 
Peel the oranges, remove the pith and seeds. 
Cut grapes in halves and take out the seeds. 
Large strawberries may be quartered, and the 
other fruit cut in dice. Macerate the fruit for 
two hours and mix into a frozen Pineapple Ice, 
and pack in ice and salt to ripen for one hour. 



CUPS. 

750.— TUTTI FRUITTI ICES IN CUPS. 

The Macedoine Ices are also served as a cup. 
The fruit is macerated in a liquor syrup, but not 
frozen with the Ice. The fruit is served in the 
cup, on or between a layer of fruit Ice or Cream, 
as it may be. 

Although these cups contain liquors, they are 
not served between the courses like a punch; the 
cups are served as a dessert, and often take the 
place of the cold pudding or the ice cream. 

A larger glass, something like a goblet, is better 
suited for cups than the ordinary punch glass. 

751.— AMERICAN CUP. 
Cover the bottom of the glass with a layer of 
Orange Ice, or Pineapple Ice, and half fill with a 
macedoine of fruit flavored with some good rum 
or arrac; cover with another thin layer of the 
same ice, and finish the top with sweetened whip- 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 8> 

J>ed cream, slightly flavored vanilla. Insert a tiny ice and salt and frozen to a mush without turning; 

American flag in the centre and serve. using the spatula to loosen it from the sides. The 

LIPTON niP Granite is served in glasses like the Sherbets. 

CUP LIPTON. 757.— LEMON SHERBET. 

Cover the bottom with a layer of Lemon Ice; 4 lbs. sugar, 5 quarts of water, 12 lemons. 

fiU half with a macedoine of fresh fruit, if it can ^ake sugar and water into a syrup, let infuse 

be had; flavor with kirschwasser. Put on top of ^^^ j^e grated rind of six lemons, add the juice 

the fruit a layer of Pistachio Ice Cream of a „£ ^ji ^nd strain. Add from four to five beaten 

delicate green color. Cut out four heart-shaped whites of eggs: or, add one-half ounce of soaked 

leaves from angelica, also a stem; arrange leaves gelatin in place of the whites, to the syrup while 

jmd stem to represent a shamrock on top of the warm. Freeze as usual 



cream, and serve. 



758.— ORANGE SHERBET. 

4 lbs. sugar, 5 quarts water, 6 to 8 lemons, 

12 oranges, 5 whites of eggs. 



753.— ST. JACQUES CUP. 

Cover bottom of the glass with Maraschino Ice; 

half fiU with the fruit salad mixture flavored with 

cognac; finish with another layer of ice; decorate . Prepare same as for the Lemon Sherbet No. 757; 

with French fruit and serve. let infuse with the grated rind of three oranges; 

add the whites of eggs, and freeze as usual. 

754.— WASHINGTON CUP. Many of the other fruit sherbets may be pre- 

Cover bottom with Orange Ice; fill the centre pared like the ices, using one more quart of 

with a macedoine of bananas, oranges, pineapple water and four beaten whites of eggs for each 

and cherries. Flavor with brandy. Finish the gallon before freezing, 
top with Vanilla Ice Cream. Decorate with a 

bunch of cherries. Use either the fresh fruit, or 759-— APPLE SHERBET, 

candied cherries with stems and leaves of angelica. ' gallon water, 2}i lbs. sugar, 8 lemons, 

I doz. large tart cooking apples. 

755.— LOUISIANA CUP. pggi_ ^^^^ ^^ ^.^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^j^^^^^ ^^^p .^ 

Prepare a macedoine of French fruits, add cold water to keep them white. Set the gallon of 

some blanched and browned almonds chopped „ater to boil. When boiling, drop in the apples 

fine, and some walnuts cut in small pieces. Let and add one stick of cinnamon. As soon as the 

macerate well in a syrup flavored strongly with apples are soft, take off the fire; add the sugar, 

cognac. Serve between two layers of Pineapple the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice of 

Ice, and decorate with a star of cherries and the eight lemons. Cool, strain, add four beaten 

angelica. whites of eggs and freeze. 

A variety of cups may be made by using fresh 

fruit ices in combination with frozen creams or 7^°- PEAR SHERBET. 

whipped cream, with or without liquors. These Prepare same as the Apple Sherbet No. 759. 

creams and ices can be made richer and of a more Flavor with a few whole cloves in place of cin- 

delicate flavor, if served in glasses than if they namon. 

are frozen hard, like the molded creams. The soft canned Bartlett pears make a very 

nice sherbet. 
756.— SHERBETS. 

GRANITOS. 761.— MINT SHERBET. 

Fruit Ices made light by the addition of whites Prepare the Lemon Sherbet No. 757. Add to 

of eggs or gelatin are called SHERBETS. *e hot syrup a handful of crushed mint leaves. 

The Sherbets should be of a lighter texture ^s' '"^"^ "s"- ^ool and color a delicate green; 

than the ices, and it is preferable to use a lighter ^^^ ^'^ serve with a spray of mint in each glass, 

syrup; that is, more water or less sugar. 762.— LEMON AND GINGER SHERBET. 

About two ounces less of sugar for each quart pj^^^^ j^^ j^^^^ j^ ^;j^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^, 

of water, and one white of egg beaten Ught, ^^^^^ ^ ^„^j^ ^^ ^^^ ^^j^ ^j^j^ ^^^^^ ^^ 

makes a perfect Sherbet from aU the Frmt Ices ^.^^j^ ^^^^^ ^ ^^ g,^ 
given in former chapter. 

GRANITOS are Sherbets frozen without much 763.— TEA AND LEMON SHERBET, 

stirring. This process makes them more granular Prepare the Lemon Ice No. 734 and add four 

and icy. They are better if made without the ounces of good tea infused in one quart of boiling 

use of syrup. The sugar is dissolved in the cold water. Strain, cool, add tour beaten egg whites 

water and mixed with fruit and juices, packed in and freeze as usual 



88 PAUL RICHARDS'^ BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

764. — ROSE SHERBET. opinions of the best caterers differ on this subject. 

Prepare the Maraschino Ice No. 745, or the The word frappe means cold, and if a drinK is 

Apple Sherbet No. 759; color pink and flavor served iced, this is termed " en frapp^. " Gener- 

with extract of rose, or rose cordial, and freeze ally the Frappes are served at dances, receptions, 

as usual. ^'c., and should be in such a liquid condition so 

765.-ORIENTAL SHERBET. '''5: ^^° ^^ "'PP^"^- , -u.uu 

_ ,.,,„, T a -.^ The Frappes are not made as rich as the sher- 

Prepare a light Raspberry Ice, flavor with , .'^, ,., , . , , 

.,, J , . , / J . . . bets or ices, but more like a plain lemonade, 
vanilla, and also with a few drops of rose extract. 

Freeze as usual. Before serving, mix with a 

macedoine of fruit, consisting of sultanas, cur- 



*bout half as sweet as the water ices. Many 

Frappes are liked best with a slice of orange or 

... , J • ,1 pineapple floating in it, or a few ripe strawberries, 

rants, candied orange peel and pineapple cut very >, , , , _ , . , 

, , ,,. ,. _ .Of course caterers make the Frappes as rich as 



fine and soaked in maraschino syrup. Or, put 
the sherbet in the glasses and sprinkle the fruit 
on top before serving. 



their patrons desire to have them. 

A standard rule for the plain Frappes is about 

two pounds of sugar to one gallon of water, and 

766. — VANILLA SHERBET. sufficient fruit juice and flavor to make a good 

Use either the Lemon Sherbet without the lemonade. 

grated rind of the lemons, or use the Apple Sher- CHOCOLATE, COFFEE AND TEA SHER- 

bet No. 759. Color pink and flavor vanilla. BET are also served as a Frapp^; also combi- 

767.— ORANGE FLOWER SHERBET. nation Frappes which have three or four kinds of 

Take the Orange Ice or Sherbet without in- ^™'' floating in the Frappe. 

fusing any of the grated rind. Freeze smooth. "^^^y ^"^^ ^^^^ prepared cold, like the Granitos. 

and flavor after it is frozen with the extract of ^^^"^ "^« mixture is ready, put it in a packing 

orange flower '^^^ '"* ^''^ ^""^ ^^^^'' ^"' ^^^ Y^''^ kittle salt, so the 

ice freezes only lightly. It should have only a few 
768.— CHOCOLATE SHERBET. ^^^ j^e crystals floating in it when ready to serve. 

4 lbs. sugar, 1/2 lbs. chocolate or cocoa powder, Qn short notice, mix even parts of fruit ice and 

5 quarts water, i oz. gelatin or 6 whites of eggs, ^^ter, add a little more lemon juice or acid, and 



vanilla flavor. 



serve. 



Soak the gelatin in cold water. Make the Qn some occasions Frappes are also served as 

chocolate and sugar into a syrup with the water; ^ cup, in which case they contain wine or 

add the gelatin while the syrup is hot, stir tiU dis- liquors, or both, in combination with fruit juices. 

solved; cool and freeze as usual. They are in fact cold punches, but are served in 

ygg_ CHOCOLATE SHERBET. disguise where something with a stick in it is re- 

GRANITO A LA PORTO RICO. quired. Very little sugar is used in these cups. 

Prepare the Chocolate Sherbet without the '^^^ mixtures are not frozen, they are made in 

eggs or gelatin. Freeze without much stirring to '^"^f^ ^""^'^ °'^. P't^hers, and cooled with a piece 

a coarse mush. Fill the glasses half with the °* ''^^ floating in it. 

granito, and place on top a spoonful of sweetened 77i- — LEMON FRAPPE. 

.whipped cream. i gallon water, 2 lbs. sugar, 12 to 16 lemons. 

Other varieties of Chocolate Sherbets are made Prepare and freeze as directed above. 

by adding chopped nutmeats or crushed maca- «y2 ORANGE FRAPP6 

roons. Some chocolate ices are served with a i gallon water, 2 lbs. sugar, 12 oranges, 6 lemons, 

spoonful of Vanilla Ice Cream on top. Prepare as directed. Peel and cut six of the 

The confectioners' supply stores sell a variety oranges in thin slices, remove the seeds and serve 

of forms in which cups and saucers, glasses and one piece floating in each glass 

bow.s may be frozen from clear or colored water. 773.-PINEAPPLE FRAPPfi. 

These cups and glasses may be prepared before- , „ , , ,, ^ , . 

1. J /, .•.!.• Tu 1^ igal. water, 2 lbs. sugar, apt. cans grated pineapple 

hand and kept m the ice cave. They melt very ,, vj. , Z , 

, , '^, , , . I pt. can sliced pineapple, 6 lemons. 

slow and last longer than the ices. t-,_ ^i, 1 ' j • ". , 

? , . ... , Prepare the lemonade with lemon luice, water 



A still more elaborate way of serving is to set „„, » ■ j -.u ,■ 

, , , and sugar; strain and serve with one slice of 

be fro. — ■-' — 

serving. 



', , , ana sugar; strain and serve with one slice of pine- 

the frozen cups into a nest of spun sugar before ^^^^^ j^ ^^^^ ^j^^^^ 



770.— FRAPPfeS. 774.— STRAWBERRY FRAPPfi. 

The Frappes are similar to the Granitos. There RASPBERRY FRAPPfi. 

is no standard how much they should be frozen, 3 quarts water, i quart fruit juice, 2 lbs. sugar. 

and Granitos are often served as Frappes. The Make tart with lemon or orange juice, or use 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 89 

some citric acid in solution. Serve with a few for an hour; cool, add wine, rum and orange Jtiice. 

whole berries floating in the cups; or add some Ice in a bowl and serve. 

sliced oranges. Other fruit Frappfe may be made yg^ CATAWBA CUP. 

in the same proportions. 3 quarts catawba, i quart water, }i pint arrac, 

775. — COFFEE FRAPPfi. No. i. 1 fresh pineapple, or 2 cans sliced pineapple, 

4 quarts of strong black coffee, 2 lbs. of sugar, the juice of 4 lemons and 4 oranges, i lb. sugar. 

6 lemons. Dissolve the sugar cold with the wine and water; 

Prepare Tke the other Frapp^s, and flavor pare and core the pineapple and cut in thin slices; 

lightly vanilla; or with rum, cognac or kirsch- add this to the liquids, also the juice of oranges 

wasser. and lemons and the arrac. Ice like a frapp^, and 

775 A.-COFFEE FRAPPfe. No. 2. ^"^^ ^'''^ ^l''=«^ °^ pineapple. 
Take five pints of strong coffee, three pints of 

cream, and two pounds of sugar. 783-— FROZEN PUNCHES. 

Freeze like other Frapp^s and serve. These punches are made and frozen like the 

, „_,„ f'T ip* water ices, and should have a rich flavor of fruit 

Serve swlLened and iced black coffee with -. and liquors and plenty of sweetness. Being made 

spoonful of Coffee or Vanilla Ice Cream in a large °* "'^VT ^"^ the addition of liquors, they 

•^ cannot be frozen very hard. They are f erved in 

^ ^^" 777._CHOCOLATE FRAPPfe. ^""^ S°^'^'=' '" ^^^ ^'^^^^^^ '^"P"' ^"° '"^ "P^"" 

,, _ ally prepared forms and frozen cups; also in 

3 quarts water, 1 quart cieam, 2 lbs. sugar, ',,.,, 

^ „ , , u 1 1 -11 natural fruit baskets. 

I lb. powdered cocoa or chocolate, vaniUa. . ■ , ^ • . , , , „ 

. . A rich Lemon Ice with only a weak flavor of 

Make the cocoa with the sugar and water into , ,.•..•* 1 x •.. • • 

, .„ J c lemons, or a combination of several fruit ices is 

syrup; cool, add cream and vanilla flavor; freeze „ „j . „ . ^u x j x- x ^.i. 

' f^' ' used by many caterers as the foundation for the 

as usual. different frozen punches. An Italian or other 

778.— CLARET FRAPPE. . • jj j , ^, ,- . x 

'' mermgueis added, also the liquors, before serving. 

, „ In other places, a light sherbet is used for 

3 quarts of claret, i quart of water. z}i lbs. sugar, ^^^^^^^^ ^^.^^ ^ ^^ additional meringue. 
6 oranges cut in shces,^a^few sticks of cinnamon, ^^^^^ ^^^ j.^^^^^ ^^^^_ 

Make sugar and wate^hiTo a hot syrup and let " '^"^^ ^"^^ "^^^^ ^^^ '° ^^'^'^ g^"°° °^ '" ^^^^ 

infuse with the cinnamon for one hour. Let cool '' '^ ^'•°^^° ^° 1'^'^° Meringue (see No. 95), or 

and mix with the lemon juice and wine. Strain ^"""^^ '=°1^ meringue made from six to eight 

into punch bowl, which should have a large piece "^''^^ °^ ^^S^ ^'l °°« P°"°<^ °^ powdered sugar; 

of ice in i: to cool the contents, and serve with a °' ^^^ ^^^"^ ^'°°"°' °^ ^"g" '° ^^"^P *°™- . ^^^ 

,. c • u 1 liquors should be added gradually, otherwise it 

slice of orange in each glass. ■* *!,•.,»» -a, rr* • 

would cause the ice to melt too rapidly. [It is 

779.— WHITE WINE FRAPPE. ^ftg^ required to freeze the Punch for a short 

2 quarts wine, 2 quarts water, i^ lbs. sugar, time after the liquors are added, this causes much 

the juice of 6 lemons, and 4 oranges cut in slices, j^gg „£ flavor, and should be prevented as much 

Mix wine and water and lemon juice cold with as possible.] 

the sugar; ice in a bowl, same as in No. 778, and 784.— ROMAN PUNCH, 

serve with a slice of orange. ^^^ Roman Punch is without doubt the first 

780. — CLARET CUP. and original frozen punch made. Introduced 

4 quarts claret, 1 quart mineral water, i lb. sugar, from Rome to other parts of Europe, it has been 
}i pint brandy, V P'"^* curacoa, the juice of 4 for a century the only frozen punch known, from 
lemons, the rind of one large cucumber, which in later years the other frozen punches 

4 oranges cut in slices. have originated. The name has been very much 

Mix the ingredients and let infuse for half an abused, and a tasteless sherbet, flavored with a 

hour before serving. Cool in a bowl same as in cheap rum or brandy is placed on bills-of-fare as 

No. 778, and serve with a slice of orange. the genuine article. 

781.— BURGUNDY AND PORT WINE CUP. ROMAN PUNCH. No. i. 

I quart burgundy, i quart port, i quart water, Prepare a Lemon or Pineapple Ice, add for each 

I lb. sugar, i pint rum, i doz. whole cloves, gallon of Ice one quart of dry white wine and one 

8 oranges. pint of the best Jamaica rum. Work the Ice and 

Make a syrup with the sugar and water; let in- liquor smooth, and add a meringue of eight whites 

fuse with the cloves and the peel of two oranges of eggs and one pound of sugar — the Italian 



90 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Meringue. The Punch should be floating, and 
rich and creamy like double cream. Serve in 
high glasses. 

ROMAN PUNCH. No. 2. 

RUM PUNCH. . 
Take even parts of Lemon and Orange Ice; 
add one pint of rum and the meringue. Serve. 

785.— AMERICAN PUNCH. 
Prepare one gallon of Orange Ice, add to it 
one quart of strawberry juice, freeze and add the 
meringue. Before serving, add one-half pint of 
kirschwasser and one pint of good rum. Serve 
in orange or meringue baskets, or in boats made 
from nougat, with an American flag in the centre. . 

786.— CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 
Take one gallon of Pineapple Ice, add one-half 
pint of kirschwasser and one quart of champagne 
or dry catawba wine. Incorporate the meringue, 
work smooth, same as for Roman Punch, and 
serve in champagne glasses. 

787.— IMPERIAL PUNCH. 

Take three quarts of Pineapple Ice, one quart 

of Orange Ice, add one-half pint of strong black 

tea, one-half pint of maraschino, and one pint of 

Jamaica rum; work in the meringue, and serve. 

788.— CALIFORNIA PUNCH. 
FROZEN MINT JULEP. 

Prepare the Ice with three quarts of water, 
one quart of white wine, ten lemons and eight 
oranges, and one grated pineapple. 

Let the syrup infuse with the grated rind of 
.two oranges, and use the juice of all the fruit. 
Freeze and add the meringue, also a handful of 
finely-shredded mint leaves and one pint of 
brandy. 

This may be served also as a Frozen Mint 
Julep, with a spray of mint in each glass. 

789.— RENAISSANCE PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA RENAISSANCE. 
Prepare one gallon of Lemon Ice, add one pint 
of strong tea, one pint of rum, and some vanilla 
flavor; add some caramel coloring and the mer- 
ingue. Serve. 

790.— REGENT'S PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA REGENCE. 
Prepare same as No. 789, with one-half pint of 
tea, one pint of rum, one pint of white wine, and 
flavor with orange-flower water, and serve. 

Other recipes call for a strong infusion of cin- 
namon, with the same liquors. 

791.— ROYAL PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA ROYALE. 
Prepare one gallon of Pineapple Ice, add the 
grated rind of one orange and the juice of six. 



freeze as usual; add the meringue and one pint 
of maraschino, also one pint of arrac. Serve. 

792.— PUNCH CARDINAL. 
Prepare the Orange Ice, and flavor with bitter 
orange extract; add one quart of dry white or 
red wine; freeze as usual. If white wine is used 
color the mixture strawberry red ; add one pint of 
brandy and the meringue, and serve. 

793.— PUNCH BISHOP. 

CARDINAL PUNCH. 
This Punch is often served as Cardinal Punch. 
Prepare a well-flavored Orange Ice. Let in- 
fuse with the syrup one dozen of whole cloves; 
add one quart of claret, and freeze. Before 
serving, add the meringue and one pint of good 
rum. 

794.— RUSSIAN PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA RUSSE. 
Prepare one gallon of Lemon and Tea Ice No. 
763. Use green tea for infusion. Flavor with 
one-quarter pint of curaago and one pint of 
brandy. Serve without the meringue. 

795.- MARGUERITE PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA MARGUERITE. 
Prepare a Green Gage Plum Sherbet. When 
making the syrup, let the plum juice come to a 
boil with the sugar ; this makes the ice freeze up 
light and creamy. Generally no egg-whites are 
required, but, if not light enough, add the mer- 
ingue; also one pint of maraschino, and serve. 
796.— PRINCE OF WALES PUNCH. 
Prepare three quarts of a rich red Raspberry 
Ice, add two quarts of sauterne or other good 
white wine, work to a smooth ice; then add the 
meringue and one pint of brandy. Serve in high 
glasses. 

797.— ORLEANS PUNCH. 

PUNCH A L'ORLEANS. 
Prepare one gallon of Orange Ice, and add one 
quart of strawberry juice and one pint of sherry 
wine; freeze smooth, and add the meringue and 
one pint of Jamaica rum. 

798.— VIENNA PUNCH. 

PUNCH A LA VIENNAISE. 
Prepare the Apple Sherbet No. 759; flavor 
vanilla and color pink; add one pint of cognac, 
and serve. 

799.— SAXONIA PUNCH. 
Prepare a light Raspberry Sherbet; flavor 
with one-half pint of maraschino, and serve. 
800.— PORTO RICO PUNCH. 
Prepare the Chocolate Sherbet No. 768 ; flavor 
with one pint of good rum, and serve with a 
spoonful of whipped cream. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 91 

801. — BONANZA PUNCH. flavor vanilla and rose; add one pint of brandy 

Take four quarts of water, four pounds of sngar, and the meringue. 

two cans of grated pineapple, six lemons and 812. NOYEAU PUNCH 

eight oranges. ^jj ^^ ^^^ g^j^^^ ^j Lemon Ice, one pint of 

Infuse the rind of an orange and two lemons in ki,3ch.wasser. a few drops of bitter almond, and 

the syrup: add all the fruit juice, pineapple and ^^^^ orange flower water. Add the meringue and 

one quart of sherry or port wine. Freeze as g-^yg 

usual. When frozen, incorporate one pint of „ .„„ „ . . 

„ „ , . ... ^ jj- ■ J 813.— APRICOTINE PUNCH. 

Holland gin, without adding any meringue, and ^ 

ggjyg Prepare the Apricot Ice with two quarts of 

go2. FAVORITE PUNCH. water, two quarts of Apricot juice, and four 

Infuse with one gallon of Strawberry Ice the P°"°'^= °^ =™g"- ^^^^^^- ^"'^ ^^ ^^^ meringue 

grated rind of two oranges; add the juice of six ^^ °°^ P"' °* ^""^^r ""^ "rschwasser. 

oranges; freeze; add meringue and one pint 814. — CREME DE MENTHE PUNCH, 

of Jamaica rum, and serve. Prepare the Sherbet No. 761; or one gallon ot 

803. ^VICTORIA PUNCH. Lemon Ice. Color a light green. When frozen, 

Prepare one gallon of Orange Ice, and freeze ^dd the meringue and one pint of creme de 

with one pint of white wine. Before serving, add menthe liquor; or flavor with extract of mint and 

the meringue, one-half pint of kirschwasser, and °^^ P^"t °^ brandy. 

one pint of arrac. 815.— CHARTREUSE PUNCH. 

804.-MIKADO PUNCH. CURAgOA PUNCH. 

Take one gallon of Cherry Ice; incorporate one BENEDICTINE PUNCH, 

pint of arrac, one-quarter pint of maraschino To one gallon of Lemon Ice add one pint of 

aad the meringue, and serve. sherry wine, one-half pint of chartreuse liquor, 

«..,,^»T.„.T ir^TT'.T^TT and the meringue. 

80s.— ORIENTAL PUNCH. -c i. -1 .r, t j- 1 u j 

■' XT c fl • Punches With Other fancy cordials, can be made 

Prepare e e • 7 5. after the same recipe, adding Curafoa, Benedict- 
and add one pint of brandy and the meringue. 

Iu6| ctCif ctCa 

806.-KNICKERBOCKER PUNCH. 816.-SARATOGA PUNCH. 

Add to one gallon of Lemon Ice, one pint of gin. ^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ 

one-half pint of maraschino and the meringue. ° j 1 ^ ■ i •.,_ ,l 

*^ sugar; make a syrup, and let infuse with the 

807. — KIRSCHWASSER PUNCH. grated rind of one orange. Add one pint of 

PUNCH AU KIRSCH. strawberry juice; also the juice of ten oranges 

Prepare one gallon of Lemon Ice, and freeze ^nd four lemons, and one pint of white wine. 

as usual; add one pint of kirschwasser and the Freeze. Add one-half pint of kirschwasser and 

meringue. the meringue. 

808.— PERFECT LOVE PUNCH. 817.— CLARET PUNCH. 

PUNCH PARFAIT D'AMOUR. ^ q^^jg ^j^et, i quart water, 3 lbs. sugar. 

Take two quarts of Lemon Ice, one quart of g jemons, 6 oranges, 2 sticks of cinnamon. 

Raspberry Ice, and one quart of Orange Ice; j pint brandy. 

flavor vanilla. Before serving, add one pint of -..u n. . j t ^ 

navor v^uiiia. ^^v-i &• r Make a syrup with the water and sngar. Let 

kirschwasser and the meringue. .^^^^ ^^^ cinnamon and the grated rind of one 

Another way is to make Punch No. 807; flavor ^^^^^ .^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^p ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^_ ^.^ ^^^^^^^ 

with vanilla, orange or strawberry extract, and ^^.^p ^^.^ the juice of lemons and oranges; freeze 

color pink. ^^ usual; incorporate the brandy, and serve with 

809. — ANISETTE PUNCH. ^^ without the meringue. 

Add to one gallon of Lemon Ice, one-half pint 

of anisette liquor, one-half pint of brandy and 818.— FROZEN WINES. 

the meringue, and serve. j^^gt ^jj jjjg g^get wines may be frozen in the 

gio. CREME DE NYMPHE PUNCH. same manner as the Claret Punch, with or with- 

Prepare a very lightly-flavored Lemon Ice, add out other liquors. Sugar should be used sparingly, 

one pint of maraschino and the meringue, and and a better flavor is obtained if the meringue is 

flavor with extracts of rose, cinnamon and mace, omitted. 

gj J CREME YVETTE PUNCH. Take three quarts of wine, three pints of water. 

Prepare one gallon of Lemon Ice, color pink, about one and one-half pounds of sugar. Dis- 



92 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



ingue with one pint of egg-whites and one pound 
of sugar; add this to the frozen mixture, also one 
pint of brandy and one-half pint of kirschwasser. 
In place of the meringue, one quart of sweet- 
ened whipped cream may be added with the liquors. 

825.— GLACfiS. 

MOUSSES GLACfiES. 

The frozen Mousses are simply whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored with fruits, extracts, etc. 

To make these Glaces perfect, good double 
cream is required, which should be two days old. 
The cream is beaten cold to a firm froth and set 
on ice to drain in a sieve. After the cream is 
drained, it is sweetened with powdered sugar or 
syrup, fruit pulps, chopped nuts or macaroons, 
etc. ; filled into melon or brick molds; packed in 
ice and salt, and frozen. 

The small individual Glacis, also the Biscuit 
Glacis, are filled into paper cases and frozen in 
the ice cave. 

Another way to make the Glacis, is to prepare 
the mixture same as for Charlotte Russe, with a 
small quantity of gelatin (see No. 607). The 
mixing of the whipped cream with the other in- 
gredients should be done without too much stir- 
ring, in order to keep the creams as light as pos- 
sible. 

826.— VANILLA GLACfi. 

Beat one quart of double cream to a firm froth, 
drain on ice in sieve for thirty minutes, sweeten 
with eight ounces of powdered sugar; flavor with 
vanilla extract. Fill the mixture into molds or 
cases and freeze as directed. 

827.— FRUIT GLACfe. 

MOUSSE GLACfi AUX FRUITS. 
I quart of double cream beaten and drained, 
}i, pint of fruit juice or pulp, 10 to 12 ounces of 

powdered sugar. 

I 
Mix fruit pulp with the sugar, and make a 
syrup; add to the whipped cream and mix care- 
fully. Fill into forms and freeze. 
A favorite way of serving the fruits Glacis is to 
twenty-four yolks, one pound of sugar, one quart take melon or bomb forms, line the sides with ice 
of sherry, one pint of rum, three pints of whipped creams or water ices in contrasting colors, and fill 
cream. Beat yolks and sugar together; add the the centre with the mousse preparation, 
wine and set on a slow fire, or in boiling water. More fruit and sugar can be used, but it makes 
Stir constantly till the mixture begins to thicken, a less lighter mixture, and an addition of gelatin 
Take off the fire and beat cold on ice. Place in is required to keep the mousse from getting too 
the freezer and freeze smooth, then add the rum, heavy. 



solve the sugar in the wine and water, cold; freeze 
smooth and serve. 

Spices, or less wine may be used; also a combi- 
nation of wines and f rui t j uices. Liquors should be 
added only after freezing — shortly before serving. 

819.— SIBERIAN PUNCH. 
ALASKA PUNCH. 
Prepare one gallon of the virgin cream No. 720; 
freeze as usual; add one pint of rum and one pint 
of brandy; work smooth and serve. 

820.— LALLA ROOKH PUNCH. 
To one gallon of New York or French Ice 
Cream add one pint of rum and the meringue. 
Serve in glasses, like other punches. 

821.— NEWPORT PUNCH. 
Freeze one gallon of Cherry Ice Cream; add one 
pint of sherry, one-half pint of kirschwasser, and 
Italian Meringue, made from eight egg-whites and 
one pint o( simple syrup. Serve same as Roman 
Punch 

822.— MILK PUNgH. 
I gallon milk, i lb. sugar, i quart double cream 
}i pint brandy, ^ pint rum. 
Freeze milk and sugar to a soft mush like a 
granito; add the liquors, a;nd, last, the double 
cream, beaten to a firm froth. Serve with some 
grated nutmeg on top of each glass. 

823.— FROZEN EGG NOGG. 

Take one gallon of cream, ten yolks, one and 
one-half pounds of sugar. 

Prepare and freeze same as for French Ice 
Cream. Take twelve whole eggs and one pound 
of sugar, beat together, first warm and then cold, 
like for sponge cake. When the cream is about 
half frozen, add this mixture and finish freezing. 
Incorporate one pint of brandy and one pint of 
rum, and serve with some grated nutmeg on top 
of e^ch glass. 

If a richer mixture is required, take only two 
quarts of cream and all the other ingredients. 

Another way of making this punch, is to take 



and last, the whipped cream. Draw the cream 
in lightly without much stirring. Serve at once, 
with a little grated nutmeg on top of each glass. 

824.— COFFEE PUNgH. 
Prepare the Coftee Frapp^ No. 775; add one 
q[uart of cream and freeze smooth. Make a mer- 



828.— CHOCOLATE GLACfe. 

MOUSSE GLACfe AU CHOCOLAT 
I quart double cream, i lb. sugar, 3 ozs. cocoa, 
4 whites of eggs, vanilla flavor. 
Make a syrup with the sugar, cocoa, and one- 
half pint of water like for Italian Meringue; add 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 93 

the syrup to the beaten whites and beat cold, 834.— PISTACHIO GLAC6. 

flavor vanilla and mix with the whipped Iream; Prepare the Maraschino Glac4 No. 831, color a 

fill into molds and freeze. delicate green, and add four ounces of blanched 

The chocolate syrup may also be added with- and shredded pistachio nuts. Fill into brick 

out the beaten whites, and chopped walnuts or forms between two thin layers of Orange Ice; 

browned almonds added. freeze and serve. 

829.— COFFEE GLACfi. 835.— NEAPOLITAN GLACfi. 

MOUSSE GLACE AU CAFfi. MOUSSE A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Make a syrup with half a cup of strong coffee Take a two-quart brick mold and fill in threa 

and ten ounces of sugar; add to this four beaten even layers: bottom. Vanilla Glacd; centre, Straw, 

whites of eggs; cool and mix with one quart of berry or Raspberry Glac^; top layer, Pistachio 

double cream, whipped and drained; fill into Qlac^. Seal the mold with some butter, and pack 

molds and freeze. in j^e and salt for three hours. Serve cut in 

A less troublesome way, is to sweeten the slices 

drained whipped cream with ten ounces of Q,g MARRON GLACfi 

powdered sugar, and flavor with coffee extract. p^^p^^^ the VaniUa Glac4 No. 826. ' Take two 

830.— COFFEE EXTRACT FOR CREAMS ounces of preserved chestnuts and two ounces of 

AND GLACfeS. browned and crushed almonds; cut the chestnuts 

Take one pound of fresh roasted and finely- in small pieces and mix with the almonds and 

ground coffee; put into a granite pot with one some sherry wine into the whipped cream. 

quart of boiling water. Cover closely and let in- g,_ GLACfi MARTIN 

fuse and simmer down to one pint. Strain and a jj 1 iu tut .-.1 ^ c 1 i. j 

„ , , , , ,,, ,r . „ "^^"- t° t°s Marron Glace some finely-chopped 
press well through a cloth; add half a pint of_ .. ,- .1.-. r ^ 

^ , , ... maraschino cherries, the juice of two oranges 

proof alcohol, and preserve m a bottle. ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^. ^^^^^ ^^^ ^ 

Another way, is to macerate one pound of fresh- j r 
ground coffee in one quart of proof alcohol for 

two weeks, filter and put away for use. Chicory 838.— COLUMBIA GLACE, 

or burnt sugar may be added for color. Prepare the Pistachio Mousse and a plain 

. VaniUa Mousse. Add to the Vanilla Mousse a 

831.— MARASCHINO GLACfi. «„ , , , . r t -^ ^ , 7 1 

•' finely-cut macedome of fruit. Take a two-quart' 

Prepare same as for the Vanilla Glac^; sweeten ^rick or melon form. Line the melon form with 

with four ounces of powdered sugar and one- the pistachio, and fiU the centre with the fruit 

quarter pint of Maraschino Liquor. mousse. The brick form may be filled bottom 

For other Cordials, as Curapao, Anisette, etc.. and top pistachio, and the centre with fruit, 

use the same preparation. Freeze for three hours, and serve in slices. 

Other liquors, as rum or kirschwasser, or wines other individual Glac& may be made in com- 

which contain no sugar, add ten to twelve ounces bjnation of different flavors and colors, decorated 

of powdered sugar to each quart of cream. ^^^^ whipped creams, wafers, small fancy merin-' 

832. — MACAROON GLACfi. gues, etc., and served in fancy paper cases. 

Prepare the Vanilla Glac^ No. 826. Dry and 839.— BISCUIT GLACfi. 

crush four ounces of macaroons, sprinkle with BISCUIT GLACfi A LA VANILLE. 

kirschwasser and mix into the whipped cream Biscuit Glacfe are similar to the Mousse Glac^ 

with the sugar. Freeze in brick forms and cut in ^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^^ .^ ^^^ ^^^ varieties; but they 

slices; or freeze in individual cases. Before ^^^ ^^^ j^^^^^ -^ ^^^ ^^^^ y^^ ^1^^ ^^^^^^ 

serving, decorate with whipped cream and fruit, ^he Biscuit Glacis are always served in the cases 

833.— MANHATTAN GLACfe with PEACHES, in which they are frozen. 

Take brandy peaches or fresh fruit. Macerate Mix eight yolks of eggs with ten ounces of 

the sliced fruit in a strong maraschino syrup, sugar and one pint of cream, and stir on the fire; 

Prepare the Macaroon Mousse. Take brick or, set the basin in boiling water and stir till it 

molds or cases, place one layer of the mousse in thickens. Take off, strain and beat on ice till 

the bottom of the mold, level and add one layer perfectly cold; flavor vanilla, and mix with one 

of the sliced peaches mixed with a few maraschino pint of whipped cream. Fill the mixture into 

cherries, and finish with another layer of the paper cases. FiU about three-quarters full and 

mousse. Freeze and cut in slices; or, serve set in the ice cave to freeze. When sufficiently 

whole -E the cases. Decorate before serving with frozen, fill the remaining space in the case with a 

a border of whipped cream. pink-colored Maraschino Ice, or any other fruit 



94 PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES 

Ice; or use a Chocolate or Coffee Ice for a com- 
bination. Return the case to the ice cave till 
ready to serve. 

A more simple way of making the Biscuit 
Glace is to take one pint of rich French or New 
York Ice Cream; flavor to suit, and mix with one 
pint of whipped cream; fill into cases and pro- 
ceed as given above. 

840.— BISCUIT SOUFFLE GLACfi. 
IMITATION SOUFFLE. 
To imitate the baked Souffles, a rim of stout 
paper is fastened one inch high around the case, 
fo permit the filling above the case. The biscuit 
preparation is filled in and frozen in the ice cave. 
On the top of the SoufBe are sifted some finely- 
crushed and browned almond macaroons. Before 
serving, remove the paper band, and it will have 
the appearance of having risen from the case, 
like a baked SoufSe. 

841.— ITALIAN SOUFFLE GLAC6. 

I quart double cream, i lb. sugar, % pint water, 

10 whites of eggs. 

Beat the double cream to a froth and drain on 
ice. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup and add 
to the beaten whites, to make an Italian Meringue. 
Beat cold and mix with the whipped cream. 
Flavor and color to suit, and fill into cases like 
the Biscuits Glaces. 

Like the mousses, this mixture may be made 
into all the former Glaces. 

842.— TORTONI GLACfe. 
Prepare the Biscuit Glace or the Italian Glac^; 
flavor vanilla, and incorporate two ounces of 
crushed macaroons soaked in maraschino, and 
two ounces of browned and crushed almonds. 
Freeze in cases, and decorate with whipped 
cream and candied cherries and angelica. 

843.— FRASCATI GLAC6. 
Fill the cases in three layers: bottom layer, 
Vanilla Cream or Vanilla Glace; centre, Italian 
Souffle No. 841, flavored with kirschwasser and 
mixed with a macedoine of fruit; and top layer, 
Vanilla Glac^ No. 826. Freeze as usual, and 
decorate with whipped cream. 

844.— charlotte glac6. 
panach:6. 

Prepare Charlotte mixture No. 600; or use the 
Biscuit Glac^ mixture No. 839. Line a melon 
mold, or the the small Charlotte molds, with a 
sponge cake lining; fill with the mixture, and 
freeze. 

The large molds are fitted with covers; seal 
them and bury in ice and salt for three hours. 

The small molds are frozen in the ice cave. 

When frozen, shortly before serving, turn from 



ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

the molds, ice with fondant icing and decorate 
with French fruit. Return to the freezing-box 
till required. 

845.— COFFEE PARFAIT. 
PARFAIT AU CAFfe. 

Prepare the Coffee Mousse No. 829. Flavor 
with kirschwasser. Fill into high-stem glasses, 
and set in the ice cave to freeze. Before serving, 
finifb ^'le top with sweetened whipped cream. 

On short notice, take Coffee Ice Cream, flavor 
with kirschwasser; or, take Vanilla Ice Cream, 
flavor with extract of coffee and kirschwasser, 
finish the top with whipped cream, and serve. 



846.-ICE CREAM COMBINATIONS. 

Ice Creams are made more attractive when 
served in layers, Neapolitan style; that is, in com- 
bination with other creams or ices, and frozen 
again in brick, melon or bomb shapes. 

These creams are not so difficult to make, as it 
may seem at first; and for caterers and hotels 
where several kibds of creams and ices are always 
kept on hand, these combinations are easily made 
and often constitute a saving, because small 
quantities pf left-over creams and ices may be 
combined in this manner and used with profit. 

Some of the combination creams which contain 
liquors, or additions of biscuits, macaroons and 
fruits, may be served as a frozen pudding, with 
a suitable sauce. 

847.— NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 
Fill brick mold in three layers — Vanilla Ice 
Cream, Pistachio Ice Cream and Strawberry Ice 
Cream; or, use an ice between two layers of 
different colored ice creams. Seal the molds 
with a little butter and bury in ice and salt, the 
regular freezing mixture, for about three hours. 
See instructions No. 703 about molding and un- 
molding. 

848.— SARATOGA ICE CREAM. 
Place in the bottom of a brick mold a layer of 
Bisque Ice Cream; place on the cream one layer 
ladyfingers soaked in cordial of caraway; on top 
of the fingers place some sliced marrou glacis 
(candied chestnuts) , and some walnuts; on top of 
the nuts, for a centre layer, take Orange Water 
Ice, colored pink. Place a layer of sliced nuts on 
the Orange Ice; ladyfingers again, and finish with 
Bisque Ice Cream. Pack in ice and salt, and 
freeze as usual. 



849.— NESSELRODE ICE CREAM. 
Take Chestnut or Nut Ice Cream, mix with 
some sweetened whipped cream, and with a 
macedoine of fruit, consisting of raisins, seedaC 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PAS-'P.IES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. M 

and cut in two; apricots, cherries and citron, cut soaked in Itirschwasser. For the centre. nUx New 

in dice and soaked in maraschino syrup. York Ice Cream with a macedoine ol candied 

The ice cream may also be prepared like the fruit; finish top with fingers and cream, 

pudding No. 591. This cream, which is also served as a frozen 

Pack in ice and salt and freeze. Serve in slices, pudding, is generally served in a border of whip- 

with a border of whipped cream. ped cream. 

850.— MARRON ICE CREAM. 858.— PORTO RICO ICE CREAM. 

For top and bottom layers, take Chestnut Ice For bottom and top layers, take the white 
Cream mixed with crushed macaroons. For the Vanilla Ice Cream No. 714; or the Vanilla Glac^ 
centre layer, take the Marron Glac^ No. 836. No. 826. For the centre, take Chocolate Sherbet 
Freeze, and serve cut in slices. No. 768, or Chocolate Ice Cream. 

851.— ROMAN ICE CREAM. 859.— MARCIPAN ICE CREAM. 

Line the bottom and sides of the mold with a Prepare the Marcipan Paste No. 90, or the 

light Pineapple Ice Cream. For the centre, take French Macaroon Paste No. 364. Make it rather 

the French Vanilla Ice Cream, flavor with rum firm, and flavor with kirschwasser or rum. 

and mix with some quartered maraschino cherries; Divide in three parts; color one part pink, one 

finish the top with Pineapple Ice Cream. Pack part green, and leave one part plain. Roll the 

and freeze. paste in round even strips, the length of the 

852— HARLEQUIN ICE CREAM. ™°^'^- ^°'^ *^^^ bottom layer take Almond or Nut 

This cream may be made the same as No. 847. ^"^^ '^''^^"^ °° '°P °^ *'^ "^^°" ^^"^ ^ ^^y" °^ 

but in four layers of different colors-red. green, l^dyfingers, soaked in maraschino, colored pink; 

, .. J 11 .1. t 1, £11 J -ii. then another layer of the same ice cream, 

white, and yellow; or the form may be filled with .,.,.■' 

., . ... I 1 i ■ In this cream put the three strips of marcipan, 

the various creams and ices m spoonfuls, to give ^ r t- 1 

it a marble-like or a mottled effect. ^""^ P"^^"" ''S'^'ly '° *^^ "^^" ^o form the centre. 

Cover with more cream, ladyfingers, and finish 

853.— ICE CREAM A LA REINE. with cream. 

Line bottom and sides of the mold with a thin 860. — DIPLOMATIC ICE CREAM, 

layer of Lemon Water Ice. Put one layer of i„ the bottom of the mold place one layer of 

Vanilla Ice Cream in the bottom, and spread over Vanilla Ice Cream, and cover with ladyfinger or 

this a thin layer of strawberry preserves; another .t^ips of thin sponge cake soaked in rum; sprinkle 

layer of Vanilla Ice Cream for the centre; again thickly with a macedoine of fruit; ice cream on 

one layer of preserves; Vanilla Ice Cream; finish j^p „f j^e fruit. Make one or two more layers 

the top with a thin layer of Lemon Ice; freeze, 1;^^ this, finish the top layer with ice cream, and 

and serve as usual. j ^.^^^g ^^ ^^^^l 

854.— METROPOLITAN ICE CREAM. This cream may be served as a frozen pudding, 

Take New York Ice Cream for bottom and top with sauce mousseline. 

layers; for the centre. Walnut Cream with a 861.— MANHATTAN ICE CREAM. 

layer of biscuit, spread thickly with plum preserve For top and bottom layers use the French 

and soaked in kirschwasser. Vanilla Ice Cream; for the centre, take a frozen 

855. — GENOISE ICE CREAM. compote of peaches, strongly flavored with kirsch* 

For top and bottom take a rich French Bisque wasser; or a rich Peach Ice, with plenty of irxu' 

Ice Cream; for the centre. Maraschino Ice, colored ^°^ colored a light pink. 



pink. 



The ice may be used also in two layers, making 



856.— CROQUETTES ICE CREAM. t°P ^^^ bottom, and centre layer of cream. 

Freeze Vanilla or Bisque Ice Cream in brick 862.— NUT SURPRISE ICE CREAM, 

forms. When frozen, cut in pieces one inch NEAPOLITAN, 

square and 3^ to 4 inches in length; roll each This is a fancy blending, in four layers, — ^New 

piece in a crushed Nougat mixture (see No. 723) ; York Vanilla Ice Cream with chopped almonds, 

or use crushed macaroons and browned and chop- Strawberry Ice Creaii. with English walnuts, 

ped almonds; return to the freezing box. Serve Lemon Water Ice with pecans, and Pistachio Ice 

with a cold cream sauce. Cream with chopped pif lachio nuts. 

857.— ALENCON ICE CREAM. 863 — GEORGIA ICE CREAM. 

PLOMBIERE D'ALENgON. MELON ICE CREAM. 

Line the mold with the Ice Cream No. 714 or Take a melon form; line the sides with a, thin 

or No. 720. Cover the cream with ladyfingers layer of Pistachio Ice Cream, follow with a layer 



95 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



of Lemon or Maraschino Ice. For the centre 
take Strawberry Ice Cream, mix with a few 
chocolate fondant drops to resemble the water- 
melon seeds; cover, and freeze. 

864.— PARISIAN ICE CREAM. 

Flavor Pistachio Ice Cream with orange flower 

extract. For bottom layer, take Pistachio Ice 

Cream; next layer, Strawberry Ice; one layer of 

Orange Ice, and finish top with Pistachio Cream. 

863.— MAGNOLIA ICE CREAM. 
MAGNOLIA GLACfi. 
For top and bottom use Vanilla Glac^ No. 826, 
with some maraschino cherries cut in dice; for 
the centre, one layer of Strawberry Ice with lady- 
fingers, soaked in maraschino syrup, on both sides. 

866.— LOUISIANA ICE CREAM. 

LOUISIANA GLACfi. 

For bottom and top layers, take the Vanilla 

Glac^, color pink and flavor with maraschino; 

for the centre take Bisque Ice Cream, with a thin 

layer of raspberry preserve on each side. 

867.— ROYAL ICE CREAM. 
GLACE ROYALE. 
For top and bottom layer use French Vanilla 
Ice Cream; for the centre use Tutti Frutti Ice 
No. 749, and freeze as usual. 

868.— COLUMBIA ICE CREAM. 
Top and bottom layer Pistachio Ice Cream; for 
the centre. Maraschino Ice mixed with a mace- 
doine of fruit. 

869.— CARMENCITA ICE CREAM. 
GLAC£ CARMENCITA. 
For top and bottom layers use Strawberry Ice 
Cream; for the centre. Vanilla Glac^ mixed with 
finely-chopped nuts. 

870.— WALDORF ICE CREAM. 
WALDORF GLACfi. 
Line bottom and sides of the mold with Straw- 
berry or Raspberry Ice. Make the Glac^ No. 841, 
mix with a macedoine of cherries and pineapple 
and some shredded nuts; finish top with Rasp- 
berry Ice. 

871.— BOMB A LA MARTIN. 
Line a bomb mold with Chocolate Ice Cream; 
fill the centre with a Vanilla Glac^, mixed with 
chopped nuts and crushed macaroons soaked in 
kirschwasser. Serve with a cold chocolate sauce, 
which should be very thick, to mask the cream. 

872.— MARCELLINA ICE CREAM. 
Make top and bottom layers of a white Vanilla 
Ice Cream. For the centre, take Caramel Ice 
Cream No. 722, mix with plenty of chopped wal- 
nuts. Serve in slices, with a thick maple syrup 
sauce. 



873.— TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 
Add to one gallon of frozen French Ice Cream 
one quart of mixed fruit cut in dices and macerated 
in liquor syrup; or prepare the Fruit Salad No. 749, 
and arrange in the brick mold in layers of ice 
cream and fruit salad. Repack in ice and salt, 
and serve in slices. 

874.— ICE CREAM TART. 

From the Meringue Paste No. 94 prepare a case 
in the following manner: Take a flat even baking 
pan, rub slightly with butter and dust with flour. 
The meringue may also be dressed on paper. 
Make a bottom of about eight inches in diameter; 
also two rings eight inches wide; also the top, 
which should be dressed like the top of a meringue 
pie, but open in lattice fashion. Let the meringue 
dry in a slow heat. When perfectly dry and crisp, 
put the bottom on a plate, fasten the two rings on 
the bottom with fruit jam or royal icing, fill the 
centre with a suitable frozen ice cream or glac^. 
On top of the cream put a thin layer of Fruit 
Ice and put on the top cover. Place the tart in 
the ice cave till required. 

Small individual tart cases may be made in the 
same manner; or the tart may be served without 
the meringue cover, decorating the top with fancy 
macaroons and whipped cream; or a decoration 
of jelly and royal icing may be piped on, as you 
prefer. 

875.— PEACH A LA MELBA. 
Take a ripe fresh peach, remove the stone; or 
take preserved or a brandy peach; cover it with 
Vanilla Ice Cream in form of a steeple, pour 
around the base a. strawberry syrup sauce and 
serve. 

876 —MERINGUE PANACHfe or MERINGUE 
GLACfi. 

Prepare meringues in egg-shapes (see No. 381); 
fill with ice cream and put together. They may 
be tied with a ribbon, or set in a nest of spun 
sugar, or served in a. border of whipped cream. 

Creams of two colors may be served, or one 
fruit ice and one cream in the same shells, and 
are then termed Meringue Panaches. 

877. —ICE CREAM SUGGESTIONS FOR 
HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS. 

Many other combinations of frozen creams and 
ices may be devised to suit occasions. 

For Afternoon Receptions, Ladies' Luncheons, 
etc., etc., any of the Glac^ Creams may be served 
in fancy paper cases. Mousses, or creams and 
ices are also served together in sherbet or claret 
glasses. 

For St. Valentine's Day the glacis may be 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



97 



served in heart-shaped eases, or the creams 
may be frozen in heart-shaped forms. 

Tor Washington's Birthday, hatchet-shaped 
cases may be used, decorated with candied 
cherries and angelica stems and leaves. Three- 
cornered hats may be made from wafer mix- 
tures, and filled with cream. The Washington 
Cup No. 754 may also be served. 

For St. Patrick's Day, Pistachio Ice Cream 
frozen , in harp shapes is very appropriate. 
Also Irish potatoes frozen in molds the shape 
and size of potatoes; outside, Chocolate or 
Caramel Ice Cream; centre. Vanilla Ice Cream 
with a couple of maraschino cherries, and 
served with a cream sauce. Potatoes may also 
be ma^e from Marcipan Paste. The Cup 
Lipton may also be served, see No. 752. 

For Easter, the creams may be frozen in 
egg-shaped forms in various colors; or the 
meringue shells filled with frozen creams and 
ices. 

For the Fourth of July, the American 
Punch No. 785, or the American Cup No. 751. 



The glaces may be served in drum-shaped cases; 
or ice cream may be frozen in brick form, in 
layers representing the American flag, Old 
Glory with the thirteen original stars and 
stripes. 

Many of the frozen creams in brick form are 
very delicious, if served with a sauce. One of 
these favorites is Vanilla Ice Cream with choco- 
late sauce; another is Bisque or Nut Ice Cream 
with maple syrup sauce. The maple sauce is 
made by reducing one pound of maple sugar 
with half a pint of water to a thick syrup. 
For cold chocolate sauce see No. 443. 

Frozen individual Fruit Creams may be 
frozen without molds, using the fruit. Eemove 
the inside of solid bananas or oranges; cut the 
inside of apples and pears, leaving a thin shell. 
Place the sheila in the ice cave or freezer to 
harden, then fill with frozen cream and serve. 

These creams are made still more beautiful 
if served in baskets made from ices or creams, 
or molded from nougat or meringue placed on 
another tray on which they are handed around. 



END OP riFTH PABT. 



Part 6. 



878.-BREADMAKING. 

To make good bread, there are three things 
required : First, good flour ; second, good 
yeast; and third, a person with practice and 
experience, who knows how to use flour and 
yeast to make bread out of it. 

Most diflSculties for bakers arise from the 
variety of flours in use. Almost every section 
of this country produces flours of different 
qualities. Bakers used to Eastern flours often 
have trouble going West, and have to learn 
the use of these flours before they are able to 
make good bread. Flours of different qualities 
require more or less fermentation and different 
treatment in sponge and doughs. 

The varieties of wheat are divided into 
spring wheat and winter w^eat. The winter 
wheat is planted in the fall, and the spring 
wheat in the early spring. The best grade o'f 
[spring wheat, the hard red spring wheats, have 
come from the Northwest, .from Minnesota, 
Dakota and Manitoba. The Southwest, espe- 
cially Kansas, also Texas and Oklahoma, raise 
a good hard red winter wheat which makes good 
bread flours. The winter wheats are known as 
hard and soft red winter wheat and soft white 
winter wheat. The soft grades are mostly used 
for cake and pastry flours; the others are used 
in blends with spring wheat flours. 

The Oregon and California wheats make a 
flour of good color and -flavor, but because they 
contain much starch, they are classed among 
the weak bread flours. 

It is a well known fact that winter wheat 
flours possess a better flavor, and give more 
moisture to the bread; for this reason the 
various kinds of spring and winter wheat flours 
are blended into mixtures which give a good 
flavor to the breads and at the same time a 
larger loaf. 

The mills and the large modern bakeries have 
laboratories, in which grains and flours are 
tested before milling or baking, to ascertain 
their bread-making qualities, which enables 
them to turn out a uniform blend of flour. The 
process of testing is done on a scientific basis, 
which requires a technical knowledge of chem- 
istry. The blending is done by complicated 
sifting machinery. Therefore, it is best for the 
small baker to use a standard brand of flour; 
the brand is the trademark of the miller, and 
is generally kept at a uniform quality. 

A plain test for flour, is to place several 
samples side by side on a board or stiff paper 
and smooth them with a knife as much as possi- 



ble. In this manner flour is tested for its 
freedom from bran and for color. The strong 
bread flours have a yellow color and a sharp 
granular feel when rubbed between the fingers, 
while the weaker flours are more white of color 
and feel smooth and heavy in the hand. 

Another simple test is to take even quantities 
of the different samples, say an ounce of each, 
and mix with even parts of water into a paste; 
the flour which makes the firmest paste is the 
strongest and yields the most bread. 

Even the best known brands of flour change 
with every season, and it requires constant 
watching to get uniform bread, even with the 
same brands. The most dif&culties are ex- 
perienced with newly-milled flours. Bakers 
always try to keep a supply of old flour on 
hand. Newly-milled wheat flour shows less ex- 
pansion in the dough, and in baking proves 
slower than flours which have been stored and 
aired for several months. Wheat flour improves 
with age, gets whiter and of better proving 
qualities. 

Flour is best stored in a well-aired room of 
moderate temperature. It should not be kept 
near strong-smelling substances,- because it ab- 
sorbs odors readily and would make the bread 
unfit for use. 

All the flours should be sifted before using. 
This makes a lighter bread and removes all 
kinds of things, like barrel tacks, strings, etc., 
etc., often found in flours. 

Graham flour is the unbolted wheat meal, but 
in many of these flours the best part of the 
flour has been taken out, or it is made of the 
poorest grades of wheat. For breadmaking it 
is best to mix some strong patent flour with it, 
to make good bread. 

Whole wheat flour, or entire wheat flour, is 
made of the better grades of wheat, with a part 
of the bran or all of it removed. 

Gluten flour, or Health flour, is used to some 
extent in sanitariums and hotels. It is a wheat 
flour which should contain very little or no 
starch at all. It is made into bread for dia- 
betic patients. 

EYE FLOUR. 
The best and whitest rye flours are mado 
from the centre of the grains, like the wheat 
patent flours. Generally only the bran is taken 
from the rye flours, which makes a darker flour, 
but of a more pronounced rye flavor. Many of 
the rye flours in the market are blended with 
the darker grades of wheat flour. This is done 
partly to improve the breadmaking qualities, to 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



99 



make a larger loaf, and also to work off cheap 
wheat flours. 

Eye meal is made like the graham flour, and 
is used for the class of rye bread called ' ' pum- 
pernickel. ' ' 

While wheat flour improves with age, rye 
flour ia better if used fresh from the mill. Old 
rye loses much of the rye flavor. 

Corn meal and corn flour is used in bread- 
making. Corn flour is generally used mixed 
with wheat flour. The blended flour has the 
color and the sharp granular feel of the strong 
wheat flours, but the strength of the pure wheat 
flour is lacking. Corn meal is used in some 
breads. It is scalded and made into a mush, 
which is added to the dough. This process 
makes bread which retains moisture longer than 
the ordinary way of bread-making. Rye flour 
and corn flour blended, is also used in Europe 
to make a cheaper grade of bread. 

879.— ABOUT YEAST. 
Leaven in some form has been used for many 
thousands of years. The oldest leaven consisted 
of a piece of old dough left from the previous 
baking, and this method is still used to some ex- 
tent in Europe. 

The old dough preceded stock yeast, ferment, 
brewer's yeast and distiller's yeast. Stock yeast 
and ferment is still used by many bakers, be- 
cause they claim it makes a better bread, and 
keeps it moister. Compressed distiller's yeast 
is preferred by most of the bakers, because it is 
stronger, more uniform and reliable; not so 
readily influenced by atmospheric changes as 
the stock yeast. It is more convenient to use 
and a great saver of time and labor. 

Yeast develops best at a temparture of from 
75° to 90° Fahrenheit. Excessive heat will 
spoil yeast, kill the yeast germ; and great care 
should be taken when dissolving yeast not to 
scald it. A bake-shop should be laid out so 
as to keep an even temperature, free from 
drafts; should have a proof -box or closet where 
heat can be introduced to raise the bread and 
rolls after they are molded. The large bakeries 
pay strict attention to the temperature in bread- 
making. The temperature of the flour and 
water is taken before doughing. There are 
special doughing and proving rooms. The latest 
in this line, and also the most practical, is a 
refrigerating room to control the dough. In the 
hot summer months, when the temperature rises 
up to 90° Fahr., and more, this is of a decided 
advantage, as there is no danger of the dough 
getting too old or sour, and it enables the baker 
to turn out a uniform loaf of bread. Sudden 
changes in temperature influence yeast, and 
often are the cause of bad bread. In the winter 
time yeast works slower and more of it is re- 



quired to raise the bread. The strong flours re- 
quire more yeast, or a stronger fermentation, 
than the weak flours. Soft water raises better 
and assists the yeast, whUe hard water retards 
fermentation. 

Salt is used in yeast sometimes as a preserva- 
tive, and it should be put in the yeast only after 
fermentation is complete. Where yeast ia 
made fresh often, salt is better left out. In 
breadmaking it is used as a flavor, and also 
as a check on fermentation. Larger quantities 
may be used in the hot season to prevent sour- 
ing. Salt should not be used in setting sponge; 
it is better if used in doughing. In the rarified 
air of high mountainous countries yeast raises 
quicker than in the low lands. 

880.— COMPEESSED "SEAST. 
Compressed yeast is a by-product of distil- 
leries. Rye, corn or malt undergoes the regular 
process of fermentation necessary for the mak- 
ing of spirits. The yeast is taken from the 
tubs at a certain time, and is pressed through 
silken bags of different grades of fineness. The 
yeast so obtained goes through a chemical test 
before it is placed on the market, to keep a 
uniform article. Compressed yeast should al- 
ways be used fresh, but where it cannot be had 
regularly, it will keep for months in a jar of 
cold water; the yeast settles on the bottom and 
the water covering prevents air spoiling the 
yeast. It is best kept in the ice box, and the 
water changed twice a week. To use it, pour 
off the water carefully, take out what is needed 
with a spoon and pour fresh water over the re- 
maining yeast. If the water gets too warm, 
the yeast will rise to the top and spoil. Yeast 
will also keep frozen for a long time. Before 
using, it should be thawed slowly in cold water. 

Compressed yeast is used for setting sponge 
and for straight doughs; also for starting stock 
yeast and potato ferment. 

881.— VIRGIN YEAST. 
MAIDEN YEAST. 
Making yeast from the beginning is not much 
practised, because the dry hop yeast cake and 
fresh compressed yeast cake can be had at al- 
most any place to start a batch of stock yeast 
with; and even the large distilleries retain 
some yeast of previous batches to start the next 
batch. It may be made on a small scale in this 
manner: Take a handful of hops and boil in 
a quart of water for half an hour; strain off 
the hops and put the liquor in a strong bottle 
with a handful of malt and a little sugar ; cork 
up and tie securely with wire, and let it stand 
in a warm place for forty-eight hours. Then it 
wiU be ready to start about two gallons of stock 
with. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AMD SWEETMEATS. 



882.— MAIDEN YEAST. 
MALT YEAST. 
Boil half a pound of hops with four gallons 
of water for one hour; cool down to 170° l''ahr. 
and mash with six pounds of malt for one hour ; 
add half a pound of sugar and strain it in 
the yeast tub, a long narrow tub like an ice 
cream tub. Set this in a warm place, well cov- 
ered. Eermentation begins in one day; and 
in forty-eight hours, or when fermentation 
ceases, it is ready for use. This is a pure malt 
yeast, and a better result and a stronger yeast 
is obtained from this recipe, if stocked with 
four ounces of compressed yeast, or with one 
quart of previous stock, or eight dry hop yeast 
cakes dissolved in water. Before adding the 
yeast, the liquid should be cooled down to 80" 
Eahr. It may be got. ready in from twenty-four 
to thirty-six hours, according to the strength of 
the yeast and temperature. 

883.— STOCK YEAST. 
Take five ounces of hops, two pounds of malt, 
three and one-half pounds of flour, five gal- 
lons of water, two quarts of stock yeast, or eight 
dry yeast cakes, or three ounces of compressed 
yeast. Boil the hops and water for one hour; 
strain and scald the flour with a part of the 
water into a smooth paste. Cool the hop water 
to 165° Eahr.; add the malt, and let mash and 
cool down to 85 degrees, about blood warm. 
Strain and wash off the malt; add the flour 
paste and the stock yeast, either the liquid 
stock, or compressed yeast, or dry yeast. Put 
away in a warm place, well covered, till ready. 
If compressed yeast is used, it will be ready 
in about thirty-six hours, or sooner. When the 
yeast , is ready, fermentation ceases, and the 
liquid gets clear; two ounces of salt may be 
added, and the stock put in a cold place to 
keep. It is best to make fresh stock twice a 
week. For sponge, take one quart to each pail 
of water; for ferment, take one quart to start 
four gallons of ferment. 

884.— POTATO PEEMENT. 
Peel or wash well a peck of good potatoes; 
boil till soft. Put three pounds of flour into 
the yeast tub; put the hot potatoes on the flour 
with a part of the water, and mash into a 
paste; put more water to it, to make up two 
pails (twenty quarts) ; have it about lukewarm. 
Stock away with two quarts of stock, or four 
ounces compressed yeast; cover and set aside. 
This ferment will be ready in from twelve to 
twenty-four hours, according to the tempera- 
ture. It will come up like a sponge, and fall 
when ready. It may be used to set sponge, or 
for straight doughs, with or without addition 
of more water. 

In making yeasts and ferment, the utensils 



used should be kept perfectly clean and sweet, 
to prevent contamination. 

885.— DRY YEAST CAKE. 

The dry yeast cakes are made from strong 
stock yeast, which is thickened with corn meal 
into a paste, and dried in form of small cakes, 
in which condition they keep a long time. 

They are made in the following manner : Take 
good strong stock yeast and make into a paste 
with corn meal. Roll out one-half inch in thick- 
ness ; dust with more, meal and cut in one-inch 
squares. Let dry thoroughly in a warm place, 
and put away for use. This yeast works very 
slow in sponges, but if given plenty of time 
gets as strong as other yeasts. It is best to 
dissolve the dry cakes in warm water, with 
some yeast food added, which may consist of 
sugar, grape-sugar, glucose, boiled cornstarch, 
or malt. Let it stand in a warm place till it 
starts to work, and then use it in sponge, stock 
yeast, or ferment. 

886.— SALT-EISING BEEAD. 

This is also a fermented bread. The yeast 
or leaven to start with is made on the same 
principle as the Maiden Yeast No. 881. The 
making of this bread requires heat from start 
to finish. Corn meal is scalded with milk, to 
which a pinch of soda is added, into a soft 
batter; the batter is kept well covered in a 
warm place till fermentation has made it light. 
To this yeast a sponge is set with wheat flour 
(preferably winter wheat flour) and warm 
water. When this has risen again, the dough 
is made, adding more water, sugar, salt, larc. 
and flour. The dough is given a little time to 
prove and is molded into loaves, proved and 
baked. This process makes a bread of good 
flavor. 

Other methods of lightening breads are by 
means of artificial aeration, and by using some 
form of baking powder. These breads lack thu 
pleasant taste of the fermented brands. They 
may be preparea quick and easy, but will never 
displace the fermented breads. 

For the aerated breads carbonic acid gas is 
used to lighten the dough. The baking powders 
are sifted with the flour, made into dough with 
the other ingredients and baked at once. 

887.— BAKING POWDEES. 
Carbonate of ammonia, cream of tartar, and 
bicarbonate of soda used to be the only lighten- 
ing agents; but many baking powders used at 
present are made of various chemicals. A good 
home-made baking powder can be made from 
two parts of bicarbonate of soda, five parts of 
cream of tartar, and one part of cornstarch. 
The starch is added to prevent caking. All 
parts are powdered and well sifted together, 
and put up in air-tight cans. 



PAUI. RICHARDS' BOOK 07 BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



V mis 



mis. 



Cream of tartar is expensive. Tartaric acid, 
phosphate and citric acid are used, which cost 
less. The cheapest grades of baking powder 
are made with powdered alum. Here are some 
recipes used: 

No. 2. Powdered tartaric acid, 1 lb. 

Bicarbonate of soda, - 1% lbs. 
Cornstarch, - - - 1% lbs. 

No. 3. Cream of tartar, 1 lb. 

Tartaric acid, - - - % lb. 

Bicarbonate of soda, - 1% lbs. 

Cornstarch, - - - 1 lb. j 

No. 4. Alum Baking Powder. 

Powdered alum, 22 parts. 

Bicarbonate of soda, 23 parts. 
Cornstarch, - 50 parts. 

To some of these powders one ounce of pow- 
dered turmeric is added, and they are sold as 
Egg Baking Powder. 

888.— BAKING POWDEES. 
Bicarbonate of soda and sour milk are also 
used. One teaspoonful of soda should be 
used to one pint of sour milk, but as the acidity 
of the sour milk is not always alike, less of 
the soda may be required to neutralize the same 
amount of sour milk. 

889.— SPONGE AND DOUGH. 
STEAIGHT DOUGH. 

Both of these systems are widely used. The 
sponge method is used because it enables the 
baker to make different kinds of doughs out of 
one large sponge, and it saves yeast. 

Por the sponge, flour, yeast and water are 
made into a soft dough, which can be got ready 
in a shorter or longer time, by using more or 
less yeast and raising or lowering the tempera- 
ture; also, by making a slacker or tighter 
sponge: that is, to use more or less flour in 
mixing. When the sponge is made, it is al- 
lowed to rise ; when it gets ready, bubbles begin 
to show; after awhile they burst and throw off 
gas; the sponge flattens and drops in the cen- 
tre. This stage is termed by bakers the first 
drop. If not taken at this stage, it rises and 
drops again; this is termed the second drop. 
With a strong flour the fermentation will con- 
tinue in this manner till all the strength of the 
flour is exhausted and the sponge turns sour. 
Many bakers like to take the sponge at the 
second drop when using strong flours. They 
claim it makes a larger and whiter loaf. I 
prefer to take the sponge at the first drop, 
because it makes bread of better flavor. Old 
•sponges rob the flour of flavor and make a 
tasteless bread. 

After the sponge is ready to the drop, from 
■t may be taken for the different rolls, coffee 
cakes and breads; and more or less liquid and 
the other ingredients added, and made into the 
dough. For breads, generally one-third part of 



the flour is used in the sponge mixture, and two- 
thirds of it in the dough. A sponge may be 
set cool in the evening and taken in the morn- 
ing for doughing, or it may be set warm and 
slack, with more yeast, and got ready in one 
hour's time. 

A Straight Dough is made by mixing all the 
materials at one time. It can be made with 
ferment, or with compressed yeast. This process 
is termed the short process, and more yeast ie 
used than for sponge doughs. The more yeast 
used the sooner it can be got ready. At a warm 
temperature, it can be got ready for the oven 
in four hours. At a cool temperature, with a 
smaller amount of yeast, it may also be made 
in the evening and taken in the morning. 

890.— MAKING THE DOUGH. 

DOUGHING. 

A dough should be thoroughly mixed and 
kneaded to make good bread. Small bakers are 
still mixing the doughs by hand, but all the 
larger bakeries use machinery; dough mixers 
are used ; the doughs can be made more rapidly, 
and uniform and thorough mixture is secured. 

Before molding, the doughs are given time to 
mature and get ripe. It is necessary for a 
baker to know when a dough is ready for mold- 
ing, and also when it has the proper proof to 
be baked. This point can be learned only by 
practical experience. The term "proof" means 
the age of the dough, which differs with the 
strength of the flour, and with the tightness of 
the doughs. When the dough gets ripe, it loses 
the green feeling and gets dry. A sponge 
dough reaches this stage sooner than a dough 
made by the straight-dough method. The 
weaker flours require a firmer dough, because 
the dough gives — gets softer after it is made. 
The strong flours give very little, and a softer 
dough can be made. In mixing the ingredients 
into the doiugh, it is best to add the shortening, 
butter or lard, after all the flour is added. The 
dough should be worked over several times 
after it has risen, for some time; this secures 
a close grained bread; and should be taken for 
molding when the fermentation is strongest. A 
pan bread dough may be given less age than a 
Vienna dough and rolls dough. A young dough 
takes more color in baking and requires less 
heat. Old dough can stand more heat in baking 
without taking too much color. If the tempera- 
ture of the oven is low, give the goods less 
proof than when the temperature is high. 

891.— OVENS AND BAKING HEAT. 

There are many kinds of ovens in use, and afl 
of them have some good points. The ovens 
mostly in use are the furnace brick ovens. They 
are without doubt the most practical and best 



'°2 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

ovens for a small baker. They are economical blackness of the interior. The smoke will first 
in fuel, and burn wood as well as coal or gas. blacken the interior, and as the heat increases 
The only drawbacks are that the heating is it will clear off and become white. Practical 
done in the baking chamber, and nothing can bakers also can tell by holding the hand near 
be baked while it is heated. But these ovens the oven door or in the oven. Another teat is 
retain the heat well, and bread, rolls, pastry to throw a handful of flour or corn meal in the 
and cakes may be baked all in one heating, oven; if it browns gradually, the oven is right 
For large bakeries, the continuous bakers are for bread; if it blackens and burns, the oven 
the most practical; the furnace is under the is too hot. This knowledge can be more readily 
baking chamber, and the baking can be con- acquired by the use of the thermometer or pyrom- 
tinued during firing. The large bakers have eter. These meters are used in every modern 
specially built Vienna and other patent ovens bakeshop. The baking heat is not registered all 
for the bread and rolls, and other ovens for alike by these meters. This is caused by differ- 
pastry and cakes. eut meters, and also by placing the meter too 

To bake Vienna bread and rolls and other "^ar or too far from the furnace. Too much 
hearth-baked breads, an oven is required which ^^^^ "^t^n injures these meters and they be- 
holds steam. It should have tightly fitting «°™e unreliable. A few trials with the differ- 
doors and dampers, and also a steam-tight oven ^nt meters will soon teach the right degrees for 
light. The Vienna ovens are built to hold fcaki"g- When a furnace oven has attained the 
steam. They are built with a sloping hearth, V^^V^r heat, the doors and dampers are closed 
so that the oven space is above the door. When ^""^ ^^^ "^^^^ ^^ ^^^^ °^- ^^ ^^^ "^'^^^ 1°"*'"^ 
the door is opened, the steam stays in the oven °^ ^^^'""S, the oven is generally heated for one 
and does not escape. Other ovens have steam ^°'^^' !«* ^^^^' ^"^ then laid ofC for an hour, 
attached. The oven is filled with steam before The oven is then swabbed out, and the baking 
the baking begins. When the bread is put into ''egins. Continuous ovens do not require laying 
the oven, the steam condenses on the cooler °^- ^he laying off is to distribute and tone 
dough, and in this manner forms the gloss on "^own the heat. After the oven is shut down 
the bread. In the ordinary oven, a perforated ^^^ meter may register 550= Fahr. It will cool 
steam pipe should be placed in the back of the down after awhile to 500 Thi^ heat may be 
oven. This brings the steam from the back to "f/, ^f ^^. ^'^^^J ^^\ *°^/°"/ f^olnf ?' 
the front, and glazes the bread more effectually fO" *"'• P^f ^"^ P^^t^^! 300 to 200 for 
than when the pipe is placed in the front, as is ^^^Se cake etc Some ovens may be right for 
often done. The steam escapes before it reaches "^'^^^ «* f ^ ' /'^^ «« °^' a<=cordi"g to the 

ti,., i,„„i, i „j! 4.V ™ „r, 4.v„ .!„„, ;„ nearness of the furnace. Some ovens have too 

the back part oi the oven, when the door is , , . , , . rr,, . . i_ 

J i« \, i • 4.1, X, J strong a bottom heat. This requires more swab- 

opened to put in the bread. ■, ■ -, j,^ -i ^ Ji j, j vi 

bmg, and often necessitates the use of double 
Steam can also be generated by setting an ^^ ^^^^^^ burning the bottom of the 

iron pan filled with sawdust and water m the ^^^^^ ^he baking should be so arranged, and 
oven; or a pot of water m the fire-place; or by ^^^ g^^ ^ ^^^^ f^^ -^^t- ^^ ^^^^ ^he 
rolling and tying up some bags, immersing ^^^^ ^^^^ ^ ^j^^ ^^^ ^^^^. ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^g^ 
them m water and laymg them m one corner ^ followed by the others which require less 
of the oven. In shelf ovens, a pan of water , , . i,,].;-- 
may be placed on the bottom shelf. Some 
bakers bake goods first which do not require 

steam. These goods generate enough steam to 892.— MILK IN DOUGH MIXTURES, 
bake the Vienna breads and rolls. Milk makes a very palatable and nutritious 

In Europe most all the breads are baked on bread. Many bakers object to the use of milk, 
the hearth. This gives a better flavor to the because it is apt to turn the bread sour. It is 
bread than if baked on pans or on metal oven best to sterilize the milk: that is, to heat it to 
soles. In this country th« pan-baked breads the boiling point, and then cool it down to the 
predominate. proper temperature for doughing. 

Portable ovens are also used by many bakers When using all milk, it is best to make a 

and in the hotels. These ovens are less expen- straight dough. When only a part milk is used, 

sive than brick ovens, of lighter build and can set sponge with water, and use the milk for 

be moved. Some of them are built after the doughing. Milk which is beginning to turn 

style of the brick ovens, with an inside furnace sour can be used without danger to the sponge, 

and one baking chamber, and might be named by adding one teaspoonful of baking soda to 

movable brick ovens; others are built with each gallon of milk. Sour milk if put on the 

shelves, two or three above each other. These sponge will cause it to ferment more rapidly, 

ovens take up less space. and ages the dough in a shorter time, but 

The knowledge of the necessary heat in fur- should not be used with yeast to set sponge, 

nace ovens is estimated by the whiteness or Milk breads take more color in baking, require 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



103 



a lower temperature in baking, and, conse- 
quently, less proof. 

893.— THE BAKESHOP. 

Modern bakers do no guessing in their work. 
They ascertain the temperature of the shop and 
flour, and give the water the proper temperature 
to obtain a dough of a certain degree of heat. 
If the shop is kept at an even temperature, by 
heating or ventilation, the doughs can be got 
ready at a certain time for baking; bread- 
making is made more certain, and better bread 
results. The appliances should be located in 
the handiest position to make work easy, and 
the materials in the right place. There are 
many labor-saving devices, which, when used, 
often save one hand in the shop and soon pay 
for themselves. A well-constructed shop, pro- 
vided with the proper appliances and utensils, 
makes work a pleasure and assists in doing good 
work. It also tends to retain good help, and 
prevents frequent changes, which is often the 
case when the appliances are not satisfactory. 

894.— FEENCH BREADS. 

It is usage in many bakeries to make French, 
Vienna, and the ordinary pan breads all out of 
one dough, the only difference in the breads 
being in the name and shape. The fancy 
breads of Paris, the Pain du Luxe, is made 
after the Vienna method — raised with com- 
pressed yeast or stock yeast and short sponges. 
The original French bread is an all-water 
bread. The bread is not as white as the Amer- 
ican breads — more of a yellowish color. The 
body of the bread is light and moist, and of 
a slight sourish taste, but good to eat. This 
bread is raised with leaven. The leaven con- 
sists of a piece of dough, about three or four 
pounds, left from the day before; this is 
thinned up with three quarts of warm water 
and made into a soft sponge with more flour. 
This sponge is ready to drop in about two 
hours; with six more quarts of water this is 
made into the second sponge. When this is 
ripe, from twelve to twenty-four quarts of 
water is added, with the usual amount of salt; 
the sponge is broken fine and worked into a 
smooth dough with more flour. One-third of 
this dough is put aside to serve as the second 
sponge for the next batch of bread. 

The other dough is given a start, is scaled 
Tight out of the trough, molded into loaves at 
once, put in long cloth-lined baskets, the shape 
of the loaf, and given three-quarter proof. The 
oven, which has been heated during this process, 
is swabbed out. The loaf is turned upside down 
onto the peel, given three or four slanting cuts, 
put into the oven on the hearth and baked to a 
nice brown color. 



895.— NEW YOEK FRENCH BREADS. 
In New York City the French bakers make 
several kinds: the long loaves, Joeos, which are 
more than two feet long, and the split loaves, 
about eighteen inches long. Some of the bakers 
use stock yeast and ferment; others make fer- 
ment only, and stock it with compressed yeast; 
a few make straight doughs. At Delmonico's, 
the famous caterers, they use stock yeast and 
ferment ; set sponge with the ferment, and make 
dough from the sponge. Nothing else but 
water, flour and salt goes into the bread. 

896.— THE NEW YORK RECIPE. 
Set a medium sponge with one gallon fer- 
ment at 75° Fahr. This sponge wUl be ready 
to drop in three hours. When ready, add one 
gallon of water at the same temperature and 
six ounces of salt. Make a good dough; beat 
it well, but have it rather slack; pen up in the 
trough and let rest for one hour; scale and 
mold round into a box, and when all have been 
scaled begin to mold into long loaves. Set the 
loaves in cloth-lined boxes, dust lightly with 
flour and pinch up the cloth between. When 
proved, put onto the peel, wash with water and 
give four or five cuts, and put into the oven on 
the hearth. When baked, wash again with 
water. 

897.— FRENCH SPLIT LOAVES. 
Use the same dough as for the long loaves; 
best if a little firmer. Scale and mold in the 
box; then form in long loaves of the Vienna 
shape, and set these on the board or bench. 
When they are all molded and have proved 
slightly, dust with flour (some bakers brush 
the top of the loaves with lard), and press each 
loaf along the center with a long narrow rolling 
pin, just like the split rolls. Set the loaves 
split-side down in cloth-lined boxes, pinch up 
the cloth between, and let prove. Turn split- 
side up onto the peel, put in the oven and bake 
on the hearth (without washing), to a nice 
color. 

898.— CHICAGO FRENCH BREAD. 
Set a sponge as usual, with one gallon of 
water and two ounces of yeast at 75° Fahr. 
Use a good patent flour. When ready, add one 
gallon of water, four ounces of sugar, and six 
ounces of salt, and make a good smooth dough. 
Let come up and work over; give a little time 
to recover; then scale and proceed like for the 
New York bread. The breads may be baked 
In steam, like the Vienna, or without steam, 
washing the loaves before and after baking. 

899.— KINSLEY'S FRENCH SPLIT BREAD. 
2 gallons water, 1 gallon milk, 4 ozs. yeast, 
.4 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. salt, 8 ozs. lard. 

Set a sponge as usual with water and yeast 



104 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

903— VIENNA BREAD. STRAIGHT 
DOUGH. 



Take the sponge as soon as it is ready; make a 

dough with the milk, sugar and salt; add the 

lard after the flour, and make a nice smooth 1% gallon water, % gallon milk, 6 ozs. salt, 12 

dough. Work over twice, and proceed like for ozs. sugar, 12 ozs. lard, 4 ozs. compressed yeast. 



the other split loaves. (See No. 897.) 
900.— VIENNA BREADS. 



Make a dough with all the ingredients at 80 
to 85 degrees Fahr. Let rest for four hours 
and work down; let come up, and work over 



The Vienna method of breadmaking is used once more; let it get another start and mold 
by many bakers. A strong flour of good flavor into loaves. 



is used, with light short sponges, and plenty of 
good strong yeast; both sponge and dough are 



904.— VIENNA CREAM BREADS. 
Take from doughs No. 902 or No. 903. When 
treated cool and taken young. Most all of the ^^^^^ ^^ j^^id, scale into twenty-four-ounce 
breads are hearth baked, crisp, and with a good loaves; mold and put in round corrugated pans 
crust. When the breads and rolls are molded of four inches in diameter, from ten to twelve 
and have nearly attained proof, they are set in inches long; give three-quarter proof, and bake 
a cooler place. They stiffen up, but are kept in medium heat. 



free from drafts. Then they are baked in 
steam. (See Ovens No. 891.) 

901.— GENUINE VIENNA BREAD. 
1 gal. water, 5 ozs. yeast, 1 gal. milk, 6 ozs. salt, 



This makes nice round slices for sandwiches, 
which require no trimming. 

905.— MILK BREAD. 
1 gallon water, 1 gallon milk, 4 ozs. yeast, 



Set a very slack sponge at 70 degrees Fahr. « ozs. sugar, 12 ozs. lard, 5 ozs. salt. 

When ready, add the milk and salt at the same ^ake a straight dough, as usual; or set a 

.„ .„ „ „ J „ 1 J. 7, t, TT sponge with the water and yeast at 75 degrees 

temperature, and make a medmm dough. Use 15 , ^ .^rT, .. j, i, ■ ^i ^ i 4.1. 

' ^ Fahr. When it falls m- the centre make the 



the best spring flour. Let rest for one hour and 
work down; let come up again about half, and 



dough, adding milk, sugar, salt and lard. Work 
over twice, give another start and mold into 



work over again; let it come up again, and ^o^yes. Set in pans with sliding cover, or set 



make into breads or rolls, 



the loaves with the smooth side up on flat bak- 



902.— AMERICAN VIENNA BREAD WITH ™S pans some distance apart, and cover with 



SPONGE. 



the regular baking tins. The loaves may be cut 
crosswise or in ribs, or proved up plain, without 



2 gallons water, 1 gallon milk, 4 ozs. yeast, cutting. Give the loaves three-quarters proof, 

6 ozs. salt, 8 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. lard, gnj -^^^^^ jj, medium heat. If more color is 

Before setting the sponge, dissolve the yeast required, the tins may be taken off when almost 

in the pail with one pint of water at 85 degrees done and the baking finished without them. 

Fahr.; add some flour to make a soft batter; 906. — PULLMAN BREAD, 

beat up well and set aside in a warm place for This bread is used to a large extent on the 

twenty minutes. Add to this batter the rest of dining cars, and at many depots for sandwiches. 

the two gallons of water at 75 degrees Fahr., The Pullman pans are made in single and dou- 

and with more flour make a slack sponge. When We pans, with sliding covers. The size of the 

it falls in the centre, add milk and the other Pans ten inches long and four and one-half 



ingredients and make a medium firm dough. 
Let the dough double in size, and work over; 
let come up, and work over again. Scale and 
mold into loaves. 

Set in cloth-lined boxeS, smooth-side down; 
pinch up the cloth between and keep well cov- 
ered during proving. Give good three-quarter 



inches square. This size of pan makes a large 
square slice of bread which is especially suited 
for sandwiches. 

A good Vienna or Milk Bread dough may be 
used for this bread. The dough should be 
medium firm and go through the rollers from 
ten to twelve times before molding. 

Bakers who have no machinery, use hand- 



proof, turn onto the peel by means of a thin rollers, which are not very expensive. They can 
board, smooth-side up, give three slanting cuts be fastened to the bench with clamps, and can 



and bake on the hearth. 

If the oven holds steam, no washing is re- 
quired; but if baked without steam, it is cut 
and washed with water before it goes into the 
oven, and washed again with a thin cornstarch 
wash, when it is baked. 

If a thin egg-wash is used going into the 
oven, no washing is required after baking. 



be taken off after using. The rolling makes 
this bread close and fine grained. Make and 
bake like the Milk Bread No. 905. 

907.— COLUMBIA BREAD. 

2 gallons water, 6 ozs. yeast, 7 ozs. salt, 

12 ozs. sugar, 1 lb. lard. 

Set a firm sponge with two-thirds of the 

water and a strong flour. Let the sponge come 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



105 



up twice and fall; take it at the second drop. 
Add the rest of the water and the other ingre- 
dients; make a firm dough (best with winter 
wheat flour). Let rest for fifteen minutes; then 
run through the rollers twenty times. Scale and 
mold at once in the usual baking tins; cut over 
five times, let prove up moist, give three-quarter 
proof, and bake in steam in a solid heat. 

This bread became well known during the 
Columbian Exposition. The old treatment of 
the sponge bleaches the flour, and the rolling 
gives a very fine white texture and grain, but 
of little flavor. 

908.— SNOWFLAKE BREAD. 

This bread is practically the same as the 

Columbia No. 907, and can be made from the 

recipe; only set a slack sponge, give it the 

second drop, make the dough only medium firm. 

EoU, scale, mold and bake in the same manner. 

909.— SNOWPLAKE BEEAD WITH 

BTJTTEKMILK. 

1 gallon water, 1 gallon buttermilk, 2 ozs. yeast, 

5 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. salt, 6 ozs. lard. 

Set a medium firm sponge with water and 

yeast. Take the sponge when ready; add milk, 

sugar, salt and lard and make a medium dough. 

Let come up, and run through the break or 

rollers twelve times. Scale and mold in the 

square box mold, or bake under cover, like the 

Milk Bread No. 905. 

910.— HOME MADE BEEADS. 
These breads are made mostly by the straight- 
dough method, raised either with ferment or 
compressed yeast. Some bakers add cornmeal 
in form of mush, or boiled rice. The doughs 
are set to rise in the evening, and taken in the 
morning. Some of the modern bakers in place 
of using stock yeast and ferment, use malt ex- 
tract, potato flour boiled into starch, or add 
mashed potatoes to the doughs. This process 
keeps the bread moist and adds flavor. A home 
made bread should be close grained and of a 
solid texture, which is best obtained by making 
a medium firm dough. Work it well, and do 
not give full proof in baking. 

911.— HOME MADE BEEAD WITH FER- 
MENT. 
6 quarts of ferment, 2 quarts water or milk, 
5 ozs. salt. 
Make a straight dough with the ingredients; 
set at 75 to 80 degrees Fahr. Work the dough 
well and pen it close up in the trough; let come 
up, and work over ; let come up half, then throw 
out ; scale, mold in the box and form in loaves. 
Sugar and lard may be added to this mixture. 
It may also be made into French bread or rolls. 



912.— HOME MADE BEEAD WITH COM- 

PEESSED YEAST. 

2 gallons water, 2 ozs. yeast, 6 ozs. salt, 

6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. lard. 

Make a straight dough in the evening at 7.5 
degrees Fahr., using a good strong flour. This 
dough will be ready in from eight to nine hours. 
It will flatten out like a sponge when ready — 
lose its resistance. Work this dough over well 
and let come on for twenty minutes. Scale, 
mold and pan as usual. 

The same recipe may be got ready in about 
four hours with four to six ounces of yeast, at a 
warmer temperature; and it can be made to 
come slow or fast, using more or less yeast. 

913.— NEW ENGLAND BREAD WITH 

SPONGE. 

2 gallons water, 2 ozs. yeast, 6 ozs. salt, 

6 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. lard. 

Set sponge with six quarts of water at 75 

degrees Fahr. Scald twenty ounces of cornmeal 

(white) into a soft mush. When the sponge is 

ready, thin up the cornmeal with two quarts of 

water; rub it through a sieve onto the sponge; 

add sugar, salt and lard, and make a medium 

dough. Let come up, work over, scale and mold 

into loaves. Give only three-quarter proof, and 

bake in a good heat. 

914.— NEW ENGLAND BEEAD, STEAIGHT 
DOUGH. 

To the recipes No. 911 or No. 912 add four 
pounds of cornmeal mush, or take twenty ounces 
of white cornmeal and make it into mush and 
add it to the dough. Treat like No. 913. 
915.— QUAKEE BEEAD. 

Some bakers use corn-flour dry; others, corn- 
meal mush; some add malt extracts or glucose; 
others again, sugar and lard only, in this bread. 
Malt extracts improve the flavor of the bread; 
it is used in proportion of one and one-half 
ounces to one gaUon of liquid. The breads are 
mostly made with a short straight dough. 
915-A.— CHICAGO QUAKEE BEEAD. 

Take one pail of ferment (ten quarts) ; or, 
take one pail of water and five ounces of com- 
pressed yeast, eight ounces of sugar, or eight 
ounces of glucose, two pounds of cornmeal 
mush, six ounces of salt, and eight ounces of 
lard. 

Before doughing, dissolve the yeast in one 
pint of warm water, add the glucose and some 
flour to make a soft batter. Let this stand in 
a warm place for twenty minutes. 

[This process is to strengthen the yeast and 
to secure a lively fermentation. It may be used 
also in other doughs.] 

Add the water at 80 degrees Fahr., and make 



io6 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



a smooth dough with the other ingredients. Let 
rest for four hours and work over; let rise 
again about half and make into loaves. Bake 
in double square pans, give medium proof and 
bake in good heat. 

916.— MOTHEE'S BEEAD. 

1 pail water, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. lard, 5 ozs. yeast, 

6 ozs. salt. 

Make a straight dough and bake in double- 
square loaves, like the Quaker Bread No. 915. 
Part milk may be used in this recipe. 
917.— MALT BEEAD. 

Take recipe No. 916, leave out the sugar, and 
add six ounces of malt extract and one pound 
of dry corn-flour, or two pounds of cornmeal 
mush. Make a straight dough at 75 to 80 de- 
grees Fahr. Take the dough young; give only 
good half proof in baking, and bake in steam. 

918.— POTATO BEEAD. 
% peck potatoes, 5 quarts milk, 5 quarts water, 
4 ozs. yeast, 8 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. salt, 8 ozs. lard. 

Set a slack sponge with the water, yeast, and 
a strong flour. Boil, peel and mash the pota- 
toes. When the sponge is ready, thin up the 
potatoes with the milk and pass them through 
a sieve onto the sponge, add the other ingre- 
dients and make a medium firm dough. Let 
come up and work over; give a start and then 
mold in loaves. Give only medium proof, and 
bake as usual. 

This bread is also made as a hearth-baked 
bread in the following manner: When the 
dough is ready to mold, scale and mold round; 
flatten the loaves some and set in boxes dusted 
with flour, smooth side up, a little distance 
apart, so they do not touch in proving; dust 
some flour on top of the loaves, cover and give 
three-quarter proof. Bake on the hearth with- 
out washing. 

919.— ENGLISH COTTAGE BEEAD. 

NEW TOEK HIGH-EOXJND BEEAD. 
lEISH SPLIT LOAVES. 
1 gallon ferment, 1 gallon water, 6 ozs. salt, 
6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. lard. 

Set sponge with the ferment; take the sponge 
when ready, add water and other ingredients 
and make a firm dough. Let come up and work 
over, scale in eight-ounce pieces and mold round 
on the bench; then mold over again and press 
two pieces together on top of each other; dust 
with flour and set two by two in long narrow 
cloth-lined boxes, pinch up the cloth between 
each two and let prove. 

The oven is lined on the sides with wood. The 
bread is put in, two loaves at one time, close 
together in square shape. This requires prac- 



tice and dexterity. When the loaves are all in 
the oven, other pieces of wood are put in front 
of it to keep it in shape till baked. 

Split loaves are made from the same dough, 
named lEISH SPLIT. They are first molded 
in the shape of pan loaves; then pressed along 
the centre, like the French split; set to prove, 
split side down, between cloths. The loaves are 
baked like the Cottage loaves, ends and sides 
touching each other. 

920.— CHICAGO lEISH BEEAD. 

Make a good home-made dough like No. 910 
or No. 911. Mold in one-pound loaves, the 
shape of pan loaves; set in cloth-lined boxes, 
smooth side down, two-by-two, so they touch; 
pinch up the cloth between, and let prove. To 
bake; put the loaves in the oven, two at one 
time, in one row, so they touch the other loaves 
at the ends, but not at the sides. Bake without 
washing. 

921.— GEAHAM BEEAD; Straight Dough. 

2 gallons water, 3 ozs. yeast, 1% pint molasses, 

6 ozs. salt, 8 ozs. lard. 

Make a straight dough with the ingredients, 
rather slack; use one-third to one-half of wheat 
flour with the graham flour. Let come up once, 
work over; scale, mold and pan. (Do not give 
much proof.) Bake in medium heat. Always 
treat the dough cool and take it young. 
922.— GEAHAM BEEAD EEOM SPONGE. 

Take two gallons of broken-up white bread 
sponge, with the salt in it; add one and one- 
half pints of molasses, eight ounces of lard, 
and make the dough with one part wheat flour 
and two parts of graham flour. Prove and 
bake like No. 921. 

923.— WHOLE WHEAT BEEAD. 
GLUTEN BEEAD. 
HEALTH BEEADS. 

The Whole Wheat Breads, Entire Wheat 
Breads, and also the Gluten Breads, or Health 
Breads, as they are often called, are made and 
baked like the Graham Bread; less sweetening 
is used, and in some instances, when used for 
dietetic purposes, both sweetening and shorten- 
ing are left out altogether. The breads are 
made of water, or partly milk. 

Take one gallon of water, one gallon of milk, 
three ounces of yeast, six ounces of salt, twelve 
ounces of lard, three-quarters pint of molasses. 

Good flours of this kind require no addition 
of wheat flour, and are used straight; some of 
them are very poor, and bake better with some 
strong spring wheat flour added. Make the 
dough like for Graham Bread; treat cool, take 
the dough young and do not give much proof 
in baking. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



107 



924.— WHOLE WHEAT BREAD WITH 

POTATOES. 

2 quarts milk, 2 quarts water, 2 ozs. yeast, 

2 ozs. salt, 8 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. lard, 

1 lb. of boiled and mashed potatoes. 

Grate or mash the boiled potatoes. Use the 
water the potatoes are boiled in with the two 
quarts of milk to make up one gallon. With 
the yeast and other ingredients make a soft 
dough, and work smooth. Mold and bake like 
No. 923. The loaves may be washed with water 
after baking, or brushed with butter or lard. 

925.— ELEOTEIC BEOWN BEEAD. 
12 lbs. graljam flour, 12 lbs. wheat flour, 
1 gallon milk, 1 gallon water, 

1 quart molasses, 1% lbs. lard, 

1 oz. baking soda, 1 lb. baking powder, 

8 ozs. salt. 
Less of the baking powder may be needed, or 
the soda left out, if a strong powder is used 
and the bread is too light. Eub the lard in a 
part of the flour; sift the baking powder in 
the other part; mix both together; form a bay 
in the centre of the flour. Dissolve the soda 
in the milk, add salt and molasses and make a 
nice smooth dough, rather slack. Scale and pan 
at once, set in a warm prover, let come up half, 
and bake in medium heat. Brush over with 
water or lard after baking. 

926.— BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD. 

This bread is raised with yeast; also with 
soda, or with baking powder. More or less 
molasses may be used to make different qual- 
ities. Lard or shortening is not used in this 
bread. In hotels or restaurants the pudding 
steamer is used to steam it, but it can also be 
baked in a cool oven at a temperature of 200 
to 250 degrees Pahr. 

To bake: set the molds in a pan with about 
two inches of water in it, which steam-bakes the 
bread, and prevents too much browning at the 
bottom. 

Self-raising, ready-made brown bread flours 
are in the market, which have to be mixed with 
even quantities of milk or water and molasses 
into a soft batter, and steamed as usual. 

927.— BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD; YEAST 

EAISED. 
2 lbs. rye flour, 2 ozs. yeast, 

2 lbs. cornmeal, 1 quart molasses, 

2 lbs. graham flour, 2 ozs. salt, 

2 lbs. wheat flour. 
Make a sponge with the yeast and rye flour, 
using warm water. Scald the cornmeal with 
one quart boiling water, and let cool. When the 
sponge is ready, add molasses and salt, corn- 
meal mush and the other flours, and mix with 



milk into a smooth dough. When it shows life, 
divide into loaves and fill into well-greased 
molds. This mixture makes about one dozen 
loaves. Let rise to three-quarter proof, and 
steam or bake for three hours. 

928.— BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD with SODA. 
1 lb. rye flour, 1 quart molasses, 

1 lb. graham flour, 3 pints milk, 

2 lbs. cornmeal, 2 ozs. salt, 

1 lb. wheat flour, 1 oz. baking soda. 

Mix all the flours together, dissolve the soda 
in the milk; add salt and molasses, and make 
a slack dough, same as for drop cakes, adding 
more milk if required. Fill molds about three- 
quarters full. Steam or bake for three hours. 

Three ounces of baking powder may be used 
in place of the soda. 

Eaisins and currants are used for variety in 
the brown breads, also a small addition of 
spices, and stale cake crumbs may be used up 
in the breads. 

929.— SALT-EISING BEEAD. 
This bread is made of winter wheat flour, 
not of iread flour. Take half a cupful of corn- 
meal and half a teaspoonful of soda; scald 
with three cupfuls of fresh mUk, and make a 
very thin mush; add a pinch of salt and a lit- 
tle sugar. Set in a warm place over night, at an 
even temperature of 85 to 90 degrees Fahr., and 
keep well covered. In twelve hours this yeast 
will be light. Mix two quarts of warm water 
and two pounds of flour at 95 degrees Eahr., 
and add the yeast. This sponge will be ready 
in about one hour; add one more quart of 
water, two ounces of sugar and two of salt, a 
little lard, and with more flour make a medium 
firm dough. Scale and mold into loaves, put 
in pans, give about one-half proof, and bake 
like other breads. 

A very warm temperature is required from 
the beginning to the finish, to make this bread 
successfully. 

930.— TO MAKE VAEIOUS KINDS OF 
BEEADS FEOM ONE LAEGE SPONGE. 
Set a medium sponge with four gallons of 
water, six to eight ounces of yeast, with a good 
flour, at a warm temperature of about 80 de- 
grees Eahr. This sponge will have a good 
drop in three hours. (This same sponge may 
be set at a cooler temperature and less yeast, 
for a long sponge.) One quart of liquid makes 
about five pounds of sponge dough. 

Take from the ready sponge ten pounds for 
COFFEE CAKES, or SWEET BOLLS; add 
ten eggs, one-half pint of warm milk, one and 
one-quarter pounds of sugar, one and one-half 
pounds of butter, flavor, a little salt, and make 
this with more flour into a dough. 



io8 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BRBADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



Take ten pounds of sponge for OTHER 
ROLLS ; add half a pint of milk, ten ounces of 
sugar, a little salt, one pound of lard or but- 
ter; this makes another dough. 

This would leave nearly three gallons of 
sponge. To this sponge we add two gallons of 
water at a suitable temperature, also one pound 
ft salt, and break up and mix the sponge 
dough and water. 

From this broken sponge we measure one 
gallon, adding to it one pint, or less, of mo- 
lasses and some lard, and make a dough with 
graham and wheat flour. 

Take one gallon of the sponge for EYE 
BEEAD; add some carraway seed and a piece 
of old rye dough, and make dough with rye 
flour. We may take one gallon for FKENCH 
BEEAD, adding more wheat flour for the 
dough. The remaining two gallons may be 
made into VIENNA BEEAD or PAN 
BREADS; adding half a pound of sugar and 
one pound of lard. 

In this manner various breads can be made 
from one sponge. The rolls, coffee cakes and 
rye bread doughs can be made ready first for 
baking, because they require a good heat; the 
other doughs can be made ready in the succes- 
sion as they should be baked. 

931.— RYE BREADS. 

There is no more difficulty in the making of 
Rye Breads than there is in the making of 
breads made from wheat flour. AH the Eye 
Breads are hearth baked. Bakers not used to 
handling rye flour often fail to turn out good 
bread, because they work it like wheat flour. 
Rye flour is a weak flour, and has not the 
strength of wheat flour; it should be treated 
cooler, given less proof, and requires a stronger 
heat in baking. 

A rye sponge should be taken young; that is, 
as soon as it flattens it is ready, when it throws 
ofE gas and breaks. The dough should be given 
only time to come up till it shows life; then it 
should be sealed, molded, and given only about 
half the proof that is given to wheat breads. 

If a rye dough is worked over several times, 
like the wheat flour dough, or gets too old be- 
fore molding, the bread, when baked, is dry 
and tasteless, and the loaves crack during bak- 
ing and fall in the oven. 

Eye Bread made from flours which contain 
parts of wheat flour, of course, stand more 
proof. 

Many bakers prick the Eye Bread before 
putting in the oven, with a piece of wood like 
a pencil; others punch a hole in the centre with 
the finger; this is to prevent blistering in the 
quick heat, and also to prevent bursting out on 
the sides, which a cool young dough exposed to 
a quick heat often does. 



This method, which is mostly used in Ger- 
many, also in Austria and Russia, and also in 
some American bakeries for Rye Breads, is 
similar to the French method of making the 
wheat bread raised with leaven or sour dough 
(see No. 894). The breads are proved in 
wicker or straw baskets the shape of the loaf, 
which are made especially for this purpose. 
The baskets are slightly dusted with flour, the 
molded loaves are piit in upside down, and 
when proved are turned over on the peel, 
washed and put in the oven. I think this is 
the best way of proving Rye Bread, because it 
admits the use of a softer dough, and makes a 
lighter an.d moister loaf. 

Another way is to mold up the bread, either 
long or round ; set the loaves on boards, or, bet- 
ter, in boxes which are thickly dusted with a 
mixture of flour and eornmeal, or with fine 
bran; then they are washed during proving, 
and washed again on the peel before going into 
the oven. 

The loaves may also be set in cloths, like the 
Vienna bread, smooth-side down; turned over 
on the peel, cut, washed, and baked in steam. 
It can be washed again after baking, and some 
bakers rub the bread over after baking with a 
cloth saturated with melted butter or lard, to 
soften the crust. 

Breads made out of all rye flour and with 
sour dough only, are almost too heavy for the 
American taste. The addition of wheat flour 
and only a small quantity of sour dough with 
compressed yeast, makes a lighter loaf, which 
finds more favor, and I think is the best way 
to make Rye Bread. 

932.— SOUR DOUGH TO STAET FROM 
YEAST-RAISED DOUGH. 

Take three pounds of yeast raised rye dough; 
dissolve it in one quart of water, add some rye 
flour and make a slack sponge. Let this stand 
till the next day, and use it for the first batch 
of rye bread dough, with some compressed 
yeast. 

Every day Iceep a piece of the rye dough 
back to use for the next day's hatch. 

From this sour dough the German Rye 
Breads may be made; or it may be used added 
to a broken up wheat flour sponge, like ex- 
plained in No. 930. 
933.— RYE BEEAD, STRAIGHT DOUGH. 

Take two-thirds of rye flour and one-third of 
wheat flour, two gallons of water, two pounds 
of sour dough, one and one-half ounces of 
yeast, six ounces of salt, and some caraway 
seed. 

Dissolve yeast and sour dough in the water, 
add salt and seeds and make a firm dough (rye 
dough always softens and loses some of its 
firmness) ; work it well ; let double in size, but 
not fall, work over; scale and mold into loaves; 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. lOg 

give only medium proof and bake as explained pushed between the two fires. When it reaches 

in No. 931. a certain degree of heat, it is pulled out, the 

When putting the bread in the oven, don't molded loaves are put on, washed again and 

set the loaves too close together, tOl they are pushed into the oven. The heat forms a thin 

baked up well; then move closer together and elastic skin and little blisters; then the loaves 

finish baking. are withdrawn, taken off, set on boards and 

Bakers using shelf ovens without tile bot- finished proving. This treatment keeps the 

toms, can set the bread on roll pans dusted with loaves in shape, prevents bursting, and gives 

a mixture of flour and cornmeal, and bake it. a lighter color to the crust, and also a different 

gg^ EYE BEEAD WITH SPONGF taste to the baked loaf. This treatment is not 

„ „ ' i n 11. 3 1, , practiced over here, to my knowledge, because 

2 gallons water 2 lbs. rye dough, 1 oz. yeast, .^ -^ ^^^ troublesome. Bakers generally mold 

6 ozs. salt, % oz caraway seed. ^he bread, give it about half proof, wash and 

Set sponge at about 65 degrees Fahr with ^,^^6 it Uke the other rye breads, only set it 

one gallon of water, yeast and rye dough. Use ^1^^^ together in brick shape, 

the same proportions of flour as in No. 933. t„ ^^^e this bread on a small scale: Take 

When the sponge is ready, add water and salt, ^^jf ^ ^^^^^ „f ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ j^^jf ^ 

and make the dough. gallon of water, one pound of sour dough, three 

There are some people who do not like cara- ^^^^^^ „f ^^^^^ one-half ounce of caraway 

way seed; for this reason some bakers add it ^^^^ ^„^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^L 

only to a part of the dough, or add it during j^et the dough rest till it shows life. Mold in 

the molding process. This gives a choice to the two-pound loaves, set on boards, give about 

consumer. ^^^^ proof, wash with water, and bake as de- 

935 HALF EYE BEEAD scribed above. The loaves may also be set in a 

The Half Eye Bread is generally made from ^^^S. P^f. ^'^^ ^ ^"""^^"^ ^""^"^ ^ i*' ^'^'^ 

» . ^ ..i_ . 3-1. baked in this manner, 
a wheat flour sponge, without adding any sour 

dough, but the flavor is improved if sour dough 937^ FEENCH EOLLS. 

is added. FLUTES. 

2 gallons water, 2 ozs. yeast % oz. caraway rj,^^ ^^jj .^ ^^^^ j^^^^j^ ^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^jl_ j^ 

seed, 6 ozs. salt. ,,. is made in the shape of a smaU French loaf, 

Set sponge with one gallon of water the ^^^ ^^. ■^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^_ The roU is 

yeast and wheat flour When ready, add one ^^^^ ^ ^.^^ .^^^^ ^^^ .^^^ ^^^^^^1 

gallon of water and the salt, also the caraway ^^^ ^^^ ^^-^^^ ^^ ^^^^ j^^^^h and in steam. 

seed and make . medium firm dough, with one ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ ^^_ g^g 

part wheat flour and two parts rye flour. The -. .„„ , , . „ . ° , ,, 

f , . ■, 1 i . i, ^ J! ii. 1T- or No. 898 ; break up m small pieces and mold 

bread is molded m the shape of the Vienna , 4.111- jj u 

, , . . J- it J.I, i.1, round on the board; give some proof and mold 

loaves, and is given more proof than the other . , , o j. • i iu t fr. 

■, ■, m long shape. Set in cloth-lined boxes, m rows, 

Tve breads o ^^ f ' 

•' ■ the smooth side down, pinch up the cloth be- 

936. PUMPERNICKEL. tween, and let prove. Then turn onto the peel 

The coarse rye bread known here under this smooth-side up, cut, and bake in steam, 

name, is made from the unbolted rye meal. The The rolls may be baked without steam, and 

stone-milled meal makes a better bread than set on pans dusted with cornmeal and flour, cut 

the meal made by the roller process. It is and washed before and after baking. 

baked on the hearth in brick-shape, set close 933 FEENCH SPLIT EOLLS. 

together, like the cottage loaves and spUt ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ j^ ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^ '^^^ ^^^ 

loaves (see No. 919). In Germany it is made ggg^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^ ^^jj ^.^.^ ^ ^j^^^^^^ ^^^^^_ 

in large and small loaves. In Westphalia, the j^j^^^ ^ two-ounce pieces (for hotel use they 

home of the Pumpernickel, It IS made in loaves ^^^ ^^ ^^^^ smaller), mold round on the 

as large as twenty-five pounds. In other parts ^^^^^^ gj^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 

of Germany, the five- and ten-pound loaves pre- ^^^j^^^ j^^^^. ^.j^^^^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ 

vail. In this country it is made m two-pound ^^^^ ^j^^g ^j^g egntre, turn over and set on 

loaves. cloths, split-side down. Give good proof, turn 

In North Germany this bread goes through gygj. onto the peel, split-side up, and bake on 

the process of CASSELING. After it is the hearth. 

molded, the loaves are washed with water and -pTj-pTSrrTT TST^TDPHV 

put on the cassel, a long piece of sheet iron, 939.— FRENCH BEIOCHE. 

six feet long, eight inches wide, and one-fourth 1 pint milk, 2 ozs. yeast, 8 to 12 eggs, 1 oz. 

of an inch thick, with a wooden handle. The sugar, 1 lb. butter (from which the salt has 

ovens are heated on the inside, the coals are been washed), a pinch of salt, 

drawn to the front and divided into two long Set a warm sponge with the mUk and yeast; 

heaps about two feet apart. The cassel is use a strong flour. When this sponge is ready. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



add eggs, sugar and salt and work in the flour ; 
then add the butter and make a smooth dough. 
Let rise, and work over several times; then set 
in a eool place to stiffen up. After it has 
cooled and become firmer, it is ready to be 
molded in different shapes. 

The regular Brioches are molded in the shape 
of the cottage loaf, a large flat round bottom 
and a small top. In this shape it is proved and 
given some straight outs all around the sides. 

Many other fancy shapes are made from this 
dough: small fingers, twists, crescents, etc., etc. 
These rolls are baked on pans, and washed with 
egg-wash before baking. 

940.— VIENNA EOLL. 

KAISERSEMMEL. 

EMPEEOE'S EOLL. 
The best known Vienna Eolls are the Kaiser- 
semmel, or Emperor's Eoll, and the Kipfl, or 
Crescent. Many other varieties are made, as 
Twists, Split Eolls, etc., etc. At Vienna sev- 
eral qualities are made: Water Eolls, Milk 
Eolls, and rolls which contain shortening. Most 
all the rolls are baked on the hearth. Only the 
rolls with shortening are baked on pans. The 
baking on the hearth and in steam, and the 
cool treatmeuis, is what gives these rolls the 
excellent taste which has made them famous the 
world over. 

The making of the rolls requires long prac- 
tise, and if baked and made right cannot be 
excelled by any other breads. In the American 
mixtures sugar and lard is used, like in the 
Vienna breads, and the bread mixtures from 
No. 903 to No. 905 may be used for rolls with 
a firmer dough. 

941.— VIENNA MILK EOLLS. 

1 gallon water, 1 gallon milk, 5 ozs. salt, 

from 4 to 6 ozs. compressed yeast. 
Set a sponge with water and yeast as. usual. 
When it falls in the centre, add the milk and 
salt and make a medium dough with a good 
spring flour. Let come up well the first time; 
work over and let come again; then break up 
in pieces and make into rolls. More milk may 
be used in this mixture, and also a larger 
amount of yeast. This dough is best suited 
for all kinds of Vienna rolls. 

942.— VIENNA EOLLS vmn SHOETENING. 
Add to the dough above (best if it is made 
from all milk), after all the flour is worked in, 
one pound and four ounces of butter. The 
butter should be melted, drawn off and set in 
a cold place to harden. If added to the cool 
dough, the rolls have a nice leafy crust when 
baked. 

943.— AMBEICAN VIENNA EOLLS, 
STRAIGHT DOUGH. 

2 quarts milk, 2 quarts water, 4 ozs. yeast, 
4 ozs. sugar, 12 ozs. lard, 3 ozs. salt. 

Make a medium firm dough with the ingre- 



dients. Let the dough come up and work over 
twice; then it is ready to form into rolls. The 
rolls are baked on pans, and can be baked with- 
out steam, if an egg-wash is applied before 
baking. 

944.— VIENNA BEIOCHES. 

The Vienna Brioches are not made as rich as 
the Ereneh kind, but make a nice roll. It is 
made in many fancy shapes, like twists, snails, 
knots, small crescents, etc. A small round roll 
is made with sultana raisins. The rolls are 
baked on pans, and washed with eggs before 
baking. 

Take one pint of mUk, two ounces of yeast, 
one ounce of sugar, a pinch of salt, eight 
ounces of butter, and four eggs. 

Make a light sponge with milk and yeast. 
When ready, add the beaten eggs, sugar and 
salt; add the flour, and last, the butter. Make 
a medium dough, let come up and work over, 
and set in a cool place for one hour to get firm. 
Then it is ready to form the different shapes. 
Give good proof and bake to a nice golden, 
color. 

945.— HAMBUEG EUNDSTUCK. 
GEEMAN BEODCHEN. 
HAMBUEG EOLLS. 
1 gallon milk, 8 ozs. yeast, 2^?^ ozs. salt. 

The method used in Hamburg is to make a 
slack straight dough with the ingredients, using 
a good patent flour. Set to raise in a warm 
place for half an hour; then throw out on the 
table, dust well with flour and work over in 
small pieces of not more than one pound, and 
put back in box or bowl to prove. The dough 
should be worked over in this manner from 
four to five times every half hour. In a warm 
place, this dough should then be full of life and 
ready to mold into rolls. 

Break in two ounce pieces, mold in long ovals 
and set in dusted boxes or on floured cloths; 
let prove. Then set on the peel, give a deep cut 
across, and bake on the hearth and in steam. 

Another way of making these rolls is to use a 
slack Vienna dough. Mold the rolls in ovals 
and set on pans dusted with flour and cornmeal, 
set to prove in a moist prover; give half proof, 
cut across, and set back to finish proving, and 
bake in steam. 

If baked without steam, they should be 
washed with water before baking, and with a 
thin cornstarch wash when done. 

946.— GEEMAN WATEE EOLL. 
(SEMMEL.) 
These rolls are made from sponge dough, and 
any of the doughs used for the French or 
Vienna breads may be used. Take from the 
dough and break in one ounce pieces, mold 
round and set on board to give a little proof; 
take two pieces and press lightly together, set 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. IH 

in cloth-lined boxes, pinch the cloth up between and lard together and rub it into some flour, 

the rows and set to prove. Bake on the hearth add it to the sponge and make a medium firm 

and in steam, or bake on pans, like the Ham- dough; let come up once, and work over and 

burg rolls. make into rolls. 

952.— POCKET-BOOK EOLLS. No. 2. 
PLAIN MIXTURE. 
Take ten .pounds of white sponge, eight 
ounces of sugar, eight ounces of lard, two 
ounces of salt, and one pint of milk. 

Make into a medium firm dough. Let come 
up half and work over; repeat this once more 
and mold into rolls. 

953.— BUTTER EOLLS. 

FINGER ROLLS. 

10 lbs. sponge, 1 lb. butter, 8 ozs. sugar, 

a little salt, mace and lemon flavor. 

Work the ingredients into the sponge, and 
add more flour to make a medium dough. 

For a richer mixture three or four eggs may 
be added. 

Let it come up once and work over and make 
into rolls. Break in small pieces and mold 
round, give some proof and roll long with both 
hands; then twist and double up in rope 
fashion, brush with butter and set on pans, so 
they touch lightly; let prove and bake to a nice 
color. 

The same mixture may be made in Vienna 
crescents, braided twists, snails, and other 
fancy rolls, using a good egg-wash before bak- 
ing. 

For FINGER ROLLS, add eight eggs to the 
mixture. Break in one ounce pieces, mold round 
on the board, let rest for a few minutes. Form 
into fingers about five inches long, set on pans 
so they do not touch in baking. Let prove 
about half, wash over with egg-wash; set back 
to finish proving and bake to a nice color. 

954.— NEW ORLEANS EOLLS. No. 1. 
Take from doughs Nos. 949 or 950. Break in 
two-ounce pieces and mold on the board; then 
roll with both hands into long strips and double 
into a twisted knot. Set on pans so they touch 
in baking; brush over with melted butter or 
lard so they separate nicely, give good proof 
and bake in a good heat. 

955.— NEW ORLEANS ROLLS.' No. 2. 

Take one gallon of milk sponge, or set a 
sponge with one gallon of milk and yeast, as 
usual. When ready, add to the sponge one 
pound of lard, eight ounces of sugar, one-half 
pint New Orleans molasses, one and one-half 
ounces of salt, one-half ounce of ground cinna- 
mon and ginger. 

Make a medium dough, let come up and work 
over. Break in pieces, mold round and give 
some proof. Roll out long and double up in 
twists, rope fashion. Set on pans singly, give 
half proof, wash with egg-wash, finish proving, 
and bake to a nice color. 



947.— GERMAN BUTTER ROLL. 
SPLIT ROLL. 
6 quarts milk, 6 ozs. yeast, 4 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. 
salt, 3 lbs. butter and lard. 

Set a very soft sponge with half of the liquid 
and yeast. When the sponge is ready, add the 
salt, sugar and flour, and, last, the lard. Work 
the dough well and let rest for one hour; work 
over twice and mold round in two-ounce pieces; 
set in cloth-lined boxes and mold like the Ham- 
burg roll (No. 945). When ready for the oven, 
in place of cutting across, cut lengthwise, not 
very deep, and bake in steam. 

The same mixture is made into split rolls, 
like the French split roll (see No. 938), and 
baked in the same manner. 

948.— AMERICAN ROLLS. 
ALBANY ROLL. 
All the Vienna and French rolls are made by 
the American bakers, but generally richer and 
with a softer and more brittle crust. The 
American roll, which has many names, is known 
as the PARKER HOUSE ROLL, the ALBANY 
ROLL, the POCKET-BOOK ROLL, etc., and 
is made after a variety of recipes. The rolls 
can be made by the sponge method, or with a 
straight dough. 

949.— PARKER HOUSE ROLL. No. 1. 
2 quarts milk, 2 quarts water, 3 ozs. yeast, 
1 oz. salt, 1 lb. butter, 10 ozs. sugar. 

950.— PARKER HOUSE ROLL. No. 2. 

1 gallon milk, 4 ozs. yeast, six ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. 

salt, 12 ozs. butter or lard. 

Make both mixtures either with a sponge, 
using half the liquid in the sponge, or make a 
straight dough. When ready, mold round on 
the board and give a little proof; then take a 
small pin and roll flat in the centre; take some 
melted butter or lard and brush over; double 
both sides together and set on pans; they may 
be set close, to touch in baking, or single. The 
rolls should not be given too much proof. In 
baking they should open and curl backwards, if 
given the right proof. If proved moist, they 
require no washing, but may be brushed with 
butter or lard when done. 

951.— POCKET-BOOK EOLLS. No. 1. 
QUICK PROCESS. 
y^ gallon milk, % gallon water, 8 ozs. yeast, 
1% ozs. salt, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. lard. 

Set a slack warm sponge, with water, milk 
and yeast, at 85° Fahr., — flour and shop of the 
same temperature. At this temperature the 
sponge will be ready in one hour. Cream sugar 



PAUL RICHARDS ' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



956.— COLUMBIA ROLLS. 

LONG SANDWICH EOLLS. 
FRANKFORT EOLLS. 
1 gallon water, 2 quarts milk, 3 ozs. yeast, 
12 ozs. laxd, 12 ozs. sugar, 2% ozs. salt. 

Set a warm sponge with water and yeast. 
When ready, add sugar, salt and milk, and mix 
in the flour; when half mixed, add the lard and 
make a smooth dough. Let come up and work 
over twice. Break out and mold in long fingers ; 
set on pans so they don't touch in baking. Let 
prove half, wash with milk, give full proof, and 
bake in a good heat. 

These rolls are also called FEANKFOET 
EOLLS, because they are very convenient to use 
for -a. sandwich with the frankfort sausage. 
The rolls are made a little longer than the well- 
known sausage. They were sold in very large 
quantities during the Columbian Exposition, 
hence the name. The rolls may be made from 
any cheap roll dough, but should be proved 
light and have a soft crust. 

957.— SANDWICH EOLLS, PLAIN. 
1 gallon water, 2 ozs. yeast, 10 ozs. sugar, 1 lb. 
lard, 2 ozs. salt. 
Make a straight dough with the ingredients. 
Let come up and work over twice. Mold round 
and set on pans single. Give good proof, and 
bake in about 450° Fahr., so they have a soft 
crust. 

958.— GRAHAM ROLLS. 
TTse the Graham bread dough No. 921 or No. 
922. Mold in round or oval shape, set on pans, 
give medium proof, and bake in a good heat. 

959.— GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take from mixture No. 925. Mold round and 
set in gem or small mufBn pans. Set in a warm 
prover to come up half, and bake in a good 
heat. 

Or take the following mixture : Three pounds 
of graham flour, one pound of wheat flour, 
three ounces of baking powder, two ounces of 
lard, three ounces of molasses, one-half ounce 
of salt. Sift the baking powder in the flour, 
make a bay in the centre, add the salt and 
molasses and the melted lard, mix with milk or 
water to a slack dough. Drop at once in the 
gem pans, and bake in a, good heat. 

960.— SPECIAL HOTEL BREADS. 
Bakers in hotels are often called upon to 
make special breads for parties, banquets, etc. 
While generally the Vienna and French bread 
is used, many caterers prefer to serve a small 
individual loaf or roll to each person. This is 
an old custom brought over from Europe, 
where it has been in use for many years. The 
largest of these loaves is made in the shape 
of the Vienna loaf, or French loaf, weighs 
about seven ounces in the dough. It is made 



just long enough to fit exactly the oval silver 
tray in which it is served. The smallest loaf 
or roll is not more than two inches long, and 
weighs not quite one-half ounce. It is used 
to serve with soups, like consomme, or bouillon. 

As these breads are made to suit the fancy 
of the dinner-givers or caterers, they differ con- 
siderably' in size, weight and quality. The 
small loaves like the French flute, about four 
ounces in weight, are mostly in use for a dinner 
loaf. Another is made of all milk dough, like 
the Vienna or French loaf, given several cuts. 
Another one is cut from end to end along the 
centre, which makes it look like a split loaf. 
One loaf is made round, from Vienna dough. 
It is cut across the centre before baking. 

These breads should be baked in steam and 
on the hearth, and have a good crust. They 
can also be baked on pans and without steam, 
but then should be washed with a light egg- 
wash before baking. 

A Vienna dough is considered best for these 
rolls, except where a very crisp, hard-crusted 
bread is wanted, it is preferable to use an all- 
water dough. 

For light luncheons, teas and receptions, 
where no heavy dishes are served, a light and 
rich bread is served, something like the French 
or Vienna Brioches (see Nos. 939 and 944), 
made in fancy shapes, like crescents, twists or 
fingers. 

Other breads used at dinners are SOUP 
STICKS, CHEESE STICKS, CHEESE 
STRAWS, PULLED BEEAD, etc., etc. Cater- 
ers charge twenty cents per dozen for cheese 
and soup sticks and fancy finger roUs and 
brioches, so that there is a good profit in these 
breads. 

AH these small breads should be made neat 
and attractive in appearance; the soup sticks 
and cheese straws small and dainty; better 
have them rather small than too large, to be in 
accordance with the other attractions which 
pertain to a good table. 

961.— SOUP STICKS. 
■ Take Vienna or American Eolls dough with 
a good shortening, but very little sugar in it. 
When the dough is ready, put it in a cool 
place to stiffen and to lose some of its springi- 
ness. It is better to mold, and keeps better 
shape when cold. Break in small pieces and 
form in strips of the length and thickness of 
a lead pencil. Put on pahs, prove and bake in 
a cool oven crisp and dry. 

962.— SOUP STICKS WITH BAKING 

POWDBE. 
These sticks can be made on short notice. 
Take one pound of flour, one ounce of baking 
powder, and one and one-half ounces of sugar, 
one ounce of butter, and mix with milk. Rub 
the butter in the flour, mix in the baking pow- 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



113 



der and sugar, and mix with milk a little firmer 
than a tea biscuit mixture. Form in strips 
like the other soup sticks, brush over with milk, 
and bake crisp and dry. 

963.— CHEESE STICKS. 
(PAIN SWISS.) 

Cheese sticks are served with fancy salads, 
and also at the beginning of the dinner, after 
the soups, with the hors d'oeuvres, which con- 
sist of small patties and other appetizers. They 
are made of puff-paste in which some dry 
grated cheese is rolled in. 

For gentlemen's parties it is often served 
deviled — that is, a dash of cayenne pepper is 
added to the grated cheese to sharpen the ap- 
petite. 

The best cheese for this purpose is a dry 
Parmesan, but a good dry American cheese will 
answer. 

Take a piece of pufE-paste, roll out thin and 
grate some cheese over it, fold in three and roll 
out again to one-eighth of an inch of thickness; 
wash with egg-wash and grate more cheese over 
it. Cut in strips five inches long and one-half 
inch wide, put on pans; let stand in a cool 
place for fifteen minutes, or longer, and bake 
nice and crisp in a medium heat. 

A good pie crust can be used, but pufE-paste 
is better. 

964.— CHEESE STRAWS. 

Cheese straws are more like the soup sticks. 
They are served in the same manner as the 
cheese sticks. Take equal parts of butter, 
grated cheese and flour. Eub cheese and butter 
to a smooth paste, season with a pinch of 
cayenne pepper and some dry mustard and salt, 
add a few yolks of eggs, and mix with the 
flour and a little milk into a paste like a cookey 
dough. Set in a cold place to get firm, form in 
thin strips or straws about three and one-half 
inches long and set on pans. Bake in medium 
heat. 

The paste can also be made in thin biscuits. 
Eolled out one-quarter inch thick, cut into 
round biscuits one and one-half inches in diam- 
eter, prick with a fork, and bake to a nice 
fawn color. 

965.— PULLED BREAD. 

The original pulled bread is made by taking 
the inside out of a fresh baked loaf and pulling 
it apart by means of two forks in large flakes, 
which are toasted in the oven to a light brown 
crisp. 

A better way is to cut a fresh loaf in slices 
about one inch thick, trim off the crust and cut 
the slices in one-inch strips. Pull the strips 
slightly apart with a fork, and brown in the 
Gven. 

This toast is served with cheese at dinner, 
and it is also used for invalids. 



966.— RASP ROLL. 

(EASPEL BRODCHEN.) 

The Rasp roll is also used as a special dinner 
roll, and in many other shapes for culinary 
purposes. 

These rolls are best if made from a good 
Vienna dough, and baked very crisp on the 
hearth. 

Grate off the dark crust evenly all around 
while the rolls are hot and just from the oven. 
Use a fine grater or a coarse rasp for this pur- 
pose. 

For a dinner roll, bake it about three ounces 
in weight, in the shape of a Vienna loaf, and 
remove the crust while hot. 

For sandwiches, make them in a small oval 
shape. 

The Rasp roll is also used in small round 
shape for a certain croustade. After the crust 
has been grated off, the top is cut from the 
roU, part of the crumbs removed, and refilled 
with a forcemeat, the top replaced and this 
roll is served with consomme, etc. 

For other use of the Rasp roll see Nos. 701 
and 702, Fritters and Croustades. 

967.— FANCY ROLLS AND BUNS. 

Where many kinds of rolls are made it is 
best to set one large sponge, from water only, 
or from milk and water mixed; and use it as 
described in No. 930. 

Many of the rolls given under the numbers 
from 937 to 958 can be made in smaller quan- 
tities after this method, by taking from the 
ready sponge and adding the other ingredients. 

For doughs which are made richer than the 
ordinary roll doughs, it is best to use more 
yeast in the sponges, and if sponge is used 
from a slow bread sponge, some yeast may be 
added dissolved in warm milk to make it come 
faster. 

Sponges are also used as half and three- 
quarter sponge; that means the liquid used in 
the sponge is one-half or three-quarters more 
than the liquid used on the dough; and often 
the sponge is used straight, without adding any 
liquid, except the eggs, butter and sugar and 
more flour. 

A good dough should be worked well tUl it is 
smooth and comes off the fingers, and it should 
be given some time to rest and prove up before 
using. 

968.— SPONGE FOR BUNS AND RUSKS. 

Take one gallon of milk and water mixed and 
four ounces of yeast. Set a warm sponge, rather 
firm, at about 85 to 100 degrees Fahr., and use 
from this sponge as directed in the following 
recipes. 

A larger or smaller amount may be made as 
required, and more, or only two ounces of yeast 
may be used, but it is preferable to use plenty 
of good yeast to make the goods prove up light. 



114 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BRZADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



969.— PLAIN BUNS. DOUGH, No. i. 

Take fiye pounds of the sponge, add one gill 
of milk, one-half pound of lard, one-half pound 
of sugar, one-half ounce of salt; flavor with 
mace and lemon. 

Work milk, salt, sugar and flavor in the 
sponge, add the flour and, last, the lard, and 
make a smooth dough. Let come up half and 
work over, then it is ready for molding. 

907.— BUN DOUGH, No. 2. 

10 lbs. sponge, 1 lb. butter, 12 ozs. sugar, 10 

6ggS) Vi oz. salt, mace and lemon flavor. 

971.— BUN DOUGH, No. 3. 

10 lbs. sponge, 20 ozs. sugar, 20 ozs. butter, 

4 eggs, salt, mace and lemon flavor. 

972.— EUSK DOUGH, No. 1. 

5 lbs. sponge, 1 lb. butter, 12 ozs. sugar, 8 

eggs, vanilla or lemon flavor. 

973.— EUSK DOUGH, No. 2. 

5 lbs. sponge, 1% lbs. butter, 8 ozs. sugar, 18 

eggs, lemon and mace flavor. 

Make into dough same as for plain buns. 

To the above mixtures currants, raisins, or 

chopped peel may be added to make the various 

kinds of fancy rolls and buns out of it. 

974.— STANDAED DOUGH. 

In bakeries where a variety of sweet doughs 
are used, it is the practise to make a large 
sponge from all milk, or half milk and water 
mixed, and make a standard dough from this 
sponge, with eggs, sugar and butter in it. The 
buns and rusks, and often the zwiebach, are 
made out of this dough; and it is made richer 
for other goods. 

975.— STANDAED DOUGH, No. 1. 

Set a warm sponge with one quart of water 
and one quart of milk mixed, and four ounces 
of yeast. When ready, add two quarts of milk, 
one and one-half pounds of sugar, one and one- 
half pounds of butter, one and one-half ounces 
of salt, ten eggs; flavor lemon and mace. 

Break up the sponge with the sugar, salt, 
eggs and milk in it; work in the flour and add 
the butter. Work the dough well; let prove up 
half and work over; let come again and use it. 

976.— STANDAED DOUGH, No. 2. 
Set sponge with two qaurts of milk and four 
ounces of yeast. When ready, add one quart of 
milk, twenty ounces of sugar, twenty ounces of 
butter, five eggs, mace and lemon flavor, and 
salt. Work and finish like No. 1. 

977.— STANDAED DOUGH, No. 3. 
Foe COPITEB CAKE. 
STOLLEN. 
GUGELHUPr. 
ZWIEBACK. 
S quarts of milk, 4 to 6 ounces of yeast. 
Set a warm sponge with milk and yeast and 



about four pounds of flour. When ready, add 
twelve eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
butter, one-half ounce of salt, lemon or vanilla 
flavor. Work in the ingredients, let come up 
and work over, and let come up again, and work 
into COFFEE CAKE, PEETZELS, STOLLEN, 
GUGELHUPF and ZWIEBACK. 

The mixture may be made less expensive us- 
ing lard in place of butter, or using a part 
lard and less eggs. 

978.— HOT CEOSS BUNS. 

Any of the standard mixtures may be used. 

Add one pound of currants to each five 
pounds of dough; or use half peel and half 
currants, as desired. 

The buns may be set single, or let them touch 
in baking. 

Have the dough rather slack, so they prove up 
light. Mold round, set on pans, give about half 
proof and cut with a sharp knife; or use the 
cross stamp. Wash over and sprinkle with 
sugar, or leave plain and ice after baking. 

979.— CUEEANT BUNS. 

Take Bun mixtures from No. 969 to No. 971. 
EoU out in long strips about ten inches wide, 
sprinkle with currants; press the currants In 
the dough with the rolling pin, dust with sugar 
and cinnamon. Eoll up from both sides to form 
a double coil; flatten the roll and cut in strips, 
set together on pans, cut side up. Give good 
proof, and bake in good heat. Wash with but- 
ter and dust with sugar and cinnamon, or ice 
while hot. 

Another way is to make them like the Hot 
Cross Buns, No. 978. Set close together, prove 
without cutting, and leave plain; or dip in 
granulated sugar before panning, and bake as 
usual. 

980.— CINNAMON BUNS. 
Make like the Currant Buns No. 979. Eoll 
out in one long strip; brush with butter, 
sprinkle with currants, sugar and cinnamon. 
Eoll up like a jelly roll, cut in slices, set on 
pans cut side up, give good proof, and ice when 
baked. 

981.— SULTANA BUNS. 
Add to flve pounds of plain bun dough one 
pound of sultana raisins. Mold in round or 
oval shapes, set single and wash with a light 
egg-wash before baking. Leave plain, or ice 
with water icing while hot. 

982.— GEEMAN ALMOND BUNS. 
Add to Eusk dough No. 972, or to five pounds 
standard dough, eight ounces of chopped al- 
monds and eight ounces of currants, set single 
on pans, give half proof, wash with milk and 
egg-wash, sprinkle with chopped almonds and 
sugar, and bake in a medium hot oven. 



PAUL RICHARDS ' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



I»> 



983.— GEEMAN STEEUSEL BUNS. No. 116. EoU up, or fold the sides over the 
Add some currants to five pounds of standard filKng and form a long round strand about the 
dough. Break the dough in two-ounce pieces, thickness of a finger. Cut the strand in four- 
mold in oval pieces, and set on pans single; inch pieces, set on pans to touch, brush the 
give some proof and brush over with melted sides with butter so as to separate nicely when 
butter; flatten the rolls with the hand to about baked; prove, wash with a thin egg-wash, 
one-half inch of thickness, and sprinkle thickly sprinkle with coarse sugar, and bake to a nice 
with streusel; give good proof, and bake in color. 



medium hot ovens. 

984.— GEEMAN STREUSEL, No. 1. 
1 lb. powdered sugar, 1 lb. 4 ozs. cake flour, 
from 6 to 8 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. chopped almonds, 
lemon and cinnamon extract, or ground cinna- 
mon. 

Mix all the ingredients together like for short 
paste; sprinkle with a little milk; or, better, 
use one or two yolks of eggs, for the mixture 
to hold together, so it can be rubbed between 
the hands into small globular pieces. It may 
also be rubbed through a colander or a coarse 
sieve. 

984a.— GEEMAN STEEUSEL, No. 2. 

1 lb. flour, 12 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. butter, 1 egg, 

vanilla flavor, 1 drop bitter almond extract. 

985.— FLOEADOEA BUNS. 
Add to Bun dough No. 970, one pound of 
chopped cocoanut, eight ounces of candied 
orange peel, eight ounces of citron, and vanUla 
flavor. Set on pans in fingers, so they touch 
slightly on the sides, but not on the ends; 



988.— COCOANUT BUNS. 

Add to five pounds of Bun dough; one pound 
of fresh grated cocoanut, and flavor vanilla. 
Mold up in small pointed loaves, set single, 
prove, and bake in a good heat. 

Take some shredded cocoanut and brown to a 
light color in the oven. 

When the buns are baked and whOe warm, 
ice the buns and sprinkle with some of the 
browned cocoanut while the icing is soft. 

989.— CAEAWAY BUNS. 

ANISE SEED BUNS. 
Add to some Bun dough caraway seeds or 
anise; flavor with lemon extract, or use grated 
lemon rind. Mold in round or oval pieces, set 
on pans single, let prove, wash with egg-wash, 
and bake in a good heat. 

990.— ENGLISH BATH BUNS. 
Bath buns are one of the old-time English 
buns and are made in several ways; they are 
prove and wash with egg- wash, sprinkle with ^^^^^ pj^jj,^ ^^ ^it^ fruit and peel; they are 
shredded almonds, and bake to a nice color, jj^^^g j^ round shape; but often are dropped on 
Ice with vanilla water icing while hot. p^^^g ju ^ rough way, which makes them look 

ggg OPEEA BUNS. ^8 ^O"* cakes. They are washed with eggs 

Take mixture No. 971 or No. 972. Set on and sprinkled with crushed pieces of loaf sugar 
pans in fingers, like the Buns No. 985; sprinkle ^Jefore baking, 
with chopped peanuts, and bake and ice in the 



Add to the Eusk mixture No. 972 or No. 973, 
eight ounces of finely-chopped lemon or citron 
peel (currants may also be added), and set on 
pans as indicated above, and bake in medium 
heat. 

991.— BATH BUNS, PLAIN. 
Take four pounds of flour, one pound of 



same manner. 

986a.— BISMARK BUNS. 

Take plain Bun dough, or from No. 977. 
Mold up in round pieces on the bench, give 
some proof, flatten with the rolling pin or by 
hand. Place a little good fruit jam in the cen- 
tre, and pinch up the sides to enclose the jam. g^g^r, one pound of butter, four ounces of 
Set on pans so they touch in baking, let prove yeast, five eggs, three pints of milk, one pound 
some and brush with melted butter; put back ^^ pggj ^j^^ currants. 
to finish proving. Bake in a good heat. ggj. ^ gi^ck sponge with the milk, yeast and 

When done, brush again with butter, and ^jjrge pounds of the flour. When ready, make 
dust with a mixture of powdered sugar and ^ smooth dough with the rest of the flour, and 
cinnamon. 

987.— MAETHA WASHINGTON BUNS. 



Take from Standard dough No. 977. Eoll 
out in strips about six inches wide, and not 
more than half an inch thick. Spread along 
the centre some of the Nut filling No. 115 or 



add the other ingredients. Let prove up half, 
then drop on greased pans rather rough-shaped, 
in two-ounce pieces, single. Let prove, wash 
with a good egg-wash aiid sprinkle with a 
coarse granulated or crushed loaf sugar, and 
bake in medium heat. 



n6 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



992.— EUSK. 

Eusks are made very much like the buns ; but 
they are generally made of a richer dough, 
which contains more butter and eggs, but less 
sugar. 

Fruit is not used in Eusks, but caraway and 
anise seeds are added, also almonds. 

The Eusks are set on pans and baked single, 
and also set close and baked in squares. Some 
bakers make them in the shape of a long Parker 
House or pocket-book roll, and cut the folded 
side with scissors or knife before proving, which 
looks pretty when baked. 

Take the French Brioche No. 939, or use 
mixtures Nos. 972 and 973, as directed. 

Eusks are often used toasted like the follow- 
ing Zwieback, but should be a day old. 

993.— ZWIEBACK. 

Zwieback means twice baked, and it is made 
in a variety of shapes. A very light and porous 
dough is best suited for Zwieback. It should 
be made fresh every day, baked, and when one 
day old, toasted fresh several times during the 
day. There is as much difference in a stale and 
fresh toasted Zwieback as there is in fresh and 
stale toasted bread. The Zwieback should be. 
toasted in the oven to a light brown color, but 
fully dry. 

The Eusk mixtures and also the other stand- 
ard dough mixtures may be used for Zwieback. 

994.— HAMBUEG ZWIEBACK. 
Take from No. 976. Have the dough rather 
slack, mold on pans round and set single in 
one-ounce pieces, give good proof and bake in 
medium heat. Let stand and cool over night, 
or at least six hours; cut with a sharp thin 
knife in halves, set on pans and toast dry to a 
nice brown. Set the tops and bottoms together 
when dry, and put away for use. 

995.— HAMBUEG CHILDEEN ZWIEBACK. 

These Zwieback are made without sugar, and 
are used for invalids and in the nursery. 

Take one pint of milk, one pint of water, two 
ounces of yeast, one-half ounce of salt, twelve 
ounces of butter, twelve ounces of potato-starch 
or cornstarch. 

Make a slack sponge with the mixed milk and 
water, add yeast and some wheat flour. When 
ready, add the cornstarch and salt, and work in 
the butter and more flour to make a rather firm 
dough; let come up and work over; then mold 
round in one-half -ounce pieces on pans; prove 
and bake like the other Zwieback. Cut and dry 
when cooled. 

This Zwieback is used with milk as a baby 
food. 

996.— SAXON ZWIEBACK. 
Take from No. 977 or No. 971. Break out in 
one-half-ounce pieces, mold round, and then 



form in fingers about three inches long. Place 
the fingers together in rows and let prove. Give 
good proof and bake to a nice color. The day 
after baking, cut in slices and toast on pans to 
a nice brown. 

997.— VIENNA ZWIEBACK. 
Take Mixture No. 973. Mold and bake in 
long ovals or in finger shape. Out when cold 
and toast like other Zwieback. 

998.— HUNGAEIAN ZWIEBACK. 
PEESSBUEGH ZWIEBACK. 

Bake like No. 997. Form in finger shapes, 
larger on both ends than in the centre ; cool and 
cut in halves and toast dry. 

Make a meringue icing; beat five whites of 
eggs firm, stir in one pound of powdered sugar, 
and add two ounces of shredded or chopped 
almonds, and flavor vanilla. Spread this icing 
over the toasted side of the Zwieback, and set 
back in the oven to dry to a fawn color. 

A variety of other similar Zwieback is made 
round or in long shapes, which are iced with 
vanilla or cinnamon icing, like the above Zwie- 
back. 

999.— ANISE ZWIEBACK. 
The Eusk mixtures with anise seed may be 
made into Zwieback in the same manner. An- 
other mixture is given in No. 374, under Anise 
Toast, which is made like a sponge cake mix- 
ture. Left-over stale pound cake may also be 
made into a nice toast to be served with wines 
or liquors. 

1000.— COFFEE CAKES. 

Coffee cakes are made from all the mixtures 
given for buns and rusks, and also from the 
standard mixtures (see Nos. 970 to 977). The 
French savarine and Baba mixtures, also the 
Gugelhupf mixtures are used as Coffee Cake 
(see Nos. 408 to 412). 

For hotel use the most convenient shape of 
baking the flat Coffee Cakes is to use layer 
cake or pie tins. Weigh the dough about twelve 
to fourteen ounces, mould round and flatten in 
the tins; sprinkle with almonds, sugar and cin- 
namon, or streusel. Let prove and bake. These 
small cakes may be cut in slices like pies, and 
are very nice to serve in this manner. 

For bakeries they are generally baked in one 
sheet and cut in pieces, or are baked in squares 
to sell for from ten to fifteen cents. 

Other shapes of Coffee Cakes are baked in 
forms of tin, Turk's head shape; some in form 
of stollen, and others again in form of large or 
small pretzels and rings. 

1001.— STEEUSEL COFFEE CAKE. 
STEEXJSEL KUCHEN. 
Take from No. 972 or No. 973; or for less 
rich cake the mixtures Nos. 974 to 977. Eoll 



PAUL Richards' book of breads, cakes, pastries, ices and sweetmeats. 



117 



out four pounds of the dough the size of a bak- 
ing pan, or make small pieces and lay in pie 
tins. Wash with milk or egg-wasl^^ and sprinkle 
thickly with Streusel No. 984. Give good proof 
and bake in medium heat. When baked, brush 
with melted butter while hot, and dust with 
sugar and cinnamon. 

1002.— CINNAMON CAKE. 
Prepare like No. 1001. Eoll out and wash 
with melted butter, sift over a thick layer of 
sugar and cinnamon, and bake in medium heat. 

1003.— EAISIN COFFEE CAKE. 
To five pounds of dough No. 972, add two 
pounds of sultana raisins and currants mixed. 
Eoll out and brush with melted butter, give 
medium proof and bake plain. When baked, 
the cake may be washed with butter and 
sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon, or iced 
with vanilla water icing. 

1004.— ALMOND COFFEE CAKE. 
Add to five pounds of dough one pound of 
chopped almonds and one ounce of bitter al- 
monds. Eoll out, wash with egg-wash and 
sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake to a 
nice color ; or ice with vanilla icing when baked, 
and sprinkle with some browned almonds while 
the icing is soft. 

1005.— GEEMAN APPLE CAKE. 

Take from any of the plain bun doughs. Eoll 
out into a thin sheet and line a well-greased 
baking pan. Press up well around the sides, 
and give some proof. Take good baking ap- 
ples; peel, core and cut in thin slices; put the 
apples on the cake in even rows, give some more 
proof; sprinkle a few currants over, and some 
sugar and cinnamon, and bake. The cakes may 
be brushed with melted butter before or after 
baking, or some milk or cream sprinkled over 
before baking. 

If the apples color too much, a buttered paper 
may be placed over the fruit during baking. 

1006.— OTHEE FETJIT CAKES. 

Plums, peaches and apricots may be stoned 
and cut in halves and laid on the dough like for 
apple cake. Cherries and blueberries are picked 
over, washed and put on whole. 

Some bakers use a thin pastry cream or a 
custard, which is poured over the fruit before 
baking. 

1007.— POTATO CREAM CAKE. 
Eoll out a thin bottom and line a baking sheet 
like for fruit cakes, and give some proof; then 
fill with the following mixture: Take two and 
one-half pounds of boiled potatoes; peel while 
warm and let cool, and grate the potatoes in a 
bowl. Separate eight eggs; beat the yolks and 
twelve ounces of sugar together, add gradually 
to the potatoes; then add eight ounces of sifted 



flour, six ounces of melted butter; flavor with 
cinnamon, or lemon and mace, and add one-half 
pint of milk or cream; beat the whites of eggs 
light and mix all together. Spread this cream 
over the cake evenly and bake in a good heat. 
When done, dust with powdered sugar and 
cinnamon. 

1008.— VANILLA CEEAM CAKE. 

Take one quart of milk, sixteen eggs, four 
ounces of butter, twenty-four ounces of sugar, 
and four ounces of cornstarch. 

Boil milk and sugar; dissolve starch in a lit- 
tle cold milk. Add the starch to the boiling 
milk and take off the fire; stir in the butter; 
add the beaten eggs, and flavor vanilla. 

Spread this cream over a pan lined with cake 
dough Uke for fruit cake, sprinkle a few cur- 
rants over and bake. Dust with powdered sugar 
when done. 

1009.— GEEMAN CHEESE CAKE. 

For the best kinds of Cheese Cake the Tart 
fillings No. 187 and No. 194 may be used. Po* 
the regular Cheese Cake use the following mix- 
tures: Take three pounds of dry cheese-curd, 
eight eggs, six ounces of butter, eight ounces 
of sugar, three ounces of flour, six ounces of 
currants, six ounces of sultana raisins, four 
ounces of chopped almonds, half a pint of 
milk, a pinch of salt, a little mace, and the 
grated rind of one lemon. 

German bakers add saffron to Cheese Cake, 
which gives a peculiar flavor, and also more 
color to the mixture. If used, it should be dis- 
solved in a little hot water. 

Line a pan with dough like for No. 1007, ana 
prepare the mixture like No. 187 or No. 194. 
Spread evenly over the dough, and bake in 
medium heat. Sift over some powdered sugar 
and cinnamon when done. 

Some bakers leave out raisins and almonds, 
and sprinkle only some currants over the cheese 
mixture before baking. 

1010.— FEENCH COFFEE CAKES. 

For richer kinds of cakes, like tea roUs, but- 
ter pretzels, snails, etc., etc., more butter is 
added to the standard mixtures. The butter is 
rolled into, the dough like for puff paste, which 
gives these goods a flaky appearance when 
baked. The dough is also named VIENNA 
COFFEE CAKE DOUGH by many bakers. 

For each pound of standard dough roll in 
from two to six ounces of butter, which should 
be of the consistency of the dough. (Part lard 
may be used for cheaper goods.) 

Take five pounds of any of the standard 
doughs, and set in a cool place to stiffen up for 
one hour. Take one pound of washed out but- 



liS 



PAUL KICHARDS' BOOK OF ERBADS, CAEIS, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



ter; roll out the dough about one inch thick 
and spread the butter over two-thirds of it in 
little pats; fold over like puff paste No. 75; 
fold in three times; let rest and give two more 
turns and the dough is ready for use. 

This kind of dough should be kept cool and 
proved cool; if set in a warm closet, or in 
steam, the butter will run out and the cakes run 
flat. 

Keep from drafts during proving, and raise 
the goods in the ordinary shop temperature of 
about 65 to 70 degrees Fahr. 

1011.— FRENCH TEA ROLL. 
Take a piece of the prepared dough. Roll 
into a thin sheet about half an inch thick. Cut 
in strips about eight inches long and three- 
quarters of an inch wide; give each strip a 
twist, and double up and twist again, rope 
fashion. Set on pans, let prove, wash with eggs 
and bake. Ice while hot with vaniUa water 
icing. 

1012.— WREATHS. 

FRENCH COFFEE CAKES. 

Roll out and cut in long narrow strips; braid 
three strips together, form into a ring, joining 
the ends nicely together. Set on pans, give 
good proof, wash with egg-wash and sprinkle 
over a few chopped almonds. Bake and ice 
with vanilla icing. 

These cakes are made to sell at five and ten 
cents each, and may be made larger for special 
orders. 

1013.— BUTTER PRETZELS. 
Roll and cut in long narrow strips ; twist each 
strip and form into pretzels. Prove, bake, and 
ice like No. 1011. 

1014.— SNAILS. 

CHELSEA BUNS. 

Roll and cut the prepared dough in long nar- 
row strips. Twist each strip and coil it up like 
a watch spring. Set on pans, prove, wash and 
bake. Ice after baking. 

Another way to make the buns is to take only 
plain standard dough, roll out into a thin sheet 
about one-quarter inch thick and twelve inches 
wide; brush the sheet over with melted butter, 
sprinkle with currants and finely chopped al- 
monds and citron; dredge with powdered sugar 
and cinnamon. Roll up the sheet like a jelly 
roll. Brush the outside of the roll with butter, 
and cut the roll in slices about half an inch 
thick; set on pans cut side up, so they touch 
slightly on the sides in baking. Let prove and 
wash with egg-wash, and ice after baking, or 
sprinkle sugar on top before baking. 

The rolls may be made of any size to suit 
prices. 



1015.— GERMAN KRANZ KUCHEN. 
Take a piece of the prepared French dough, 
or use plain standard dough. Roll out into a 
long sheet, eighteen inches long, ten inches 
wide, one-quarter of an inch thick. Cream to- 
gether four ounces of sugar, six ounces of but- 
ter, and one egg; flavor with mace and lemon 
extract. Spread this cream over the sheet, 
sprinkle with sultana raisins, currants and 
finely-chopped citron. Roll up like jelly roll, 
set on pan and form a ring, joining the ends 
nicely. Set to prove. When half proved, cut 
the top with scissors halfway down in the cen- 
tre in zigzag. Set back to prove, and then bake 
in medium heat. When done, brush with but- 
ter and dust with sugar and cinnamon; or it 
may be iced and sprinkled with shredded and 
browned almonds after baking. 

1016.— GERMAN STOLLEN. 
CHRISTMAS CAKE. 
StoUen is the German fruit cake for the holi- 
days, and they are made as rich as the Amer- 
ican fruit cake, but are raised with yeast. The 
German housewife gets busy about one month 
before the holidays to make these StoUeu, be- 
cause if very rich they improve if a couple of 
weeks old, and become rich and mellow. 

1017.— STOLLEN, NO. 1. 
Take five pounds of milk sponge, or set a 
warm milk sponge with one quart of milk and 
two ounces of yeast. Add to the sponge one 
and one-half pounds of butter,, twelve ounces 
of sugar, eight eggs; flavor mace and lemon, 
and make a medium firm dough. Add one 
pound seeded Malaga raisins, one pound of sul- 
tana, eight ounces of currants, eight ounces of 
chopped almonds, with a few bitter almonds, 
eight ounces chopped citron and orange peel. 

1018.— STOLLEN, NO. 2. 
Take five pounds of dough No. 973. Add one 
pound of sultana, two pounds of currants, eight 
ounces of citron and lemon peel. 

1019.— ALMOND STOLLEN. 
Add to 973, two pounds of sweet almonds, 
three ounces of bitter almonds, eight ounces of 
finely-chopped citron. 

1020.— AMERICAN STOLLEN. 

Take five pounds of standard dough, make it 
a little firmer than for coffee cakes; add eight 
ounces of raisins, eight ounces of currants, and 
four ounces of citron; flavor mace and lemon. 

The StoUen are made from two to five pounds 
and more. In Germany they are baked on the 
hearth. Over here (in America) they are baked 
on pans. 



PAUL RICHAKDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



11$ 



Mold the Stollen long like a Vienna loaf, and the dough soft and smooth. Mold on the table 

press along the centre with a long rolling pin in round one-ounce pieces, or larger. Give a 

and flatten down; fold over like for pocket-book little time to prove, then flatten out and put a 

rolls, the bottom larger than the top. Set on little jam in the center. (It is not advisable to 

pans to prove. Brush over with melted butter use jelly, because it runs out — becomes too soft 

before and after baking, and dust with sugar in frying.) Pinch up the dough over the jam, 

and cinnamon. set in cloth-lined boxes and let raise. Fry like 

The plainer Stollen are washed with egg-wash, the doughnuts. Dust with sugar and cinnamon 

baked, and iced after baking. when done. 



1021.— AMERICAN GUGELHUPF. 
BUND KITCHEN. 

Take four pounds of patent flour, one quart 
of milk, three ounces of yeast, sixteen eggs, 
twelve ounces of sugar, one and one-half pounds 
of butter, half a pound of sultana raisins, half 
a pound of currants, four ounces of citron, four 
ounces of chopped almonds; flavor mace and 
lemon. 

Set sponge with milk and two pounds of the 
flour. When ready, add the other ingredients 
and flour; let come up once. Butter the molds 
well and sprinkle with chopped almonds, fill 
half with the mixture, let raise to about three- 
quarters and bake in jiedium heat. 

1022.— ALMOND GUGELHUPF. 

Take five pounds of milk sponge; add one 
pound of butter, twelve ounces of sugar, fifteen 
eggs, eight ounces of chopped almonds; flavor 
mace and lemon. 

Beat all together very light, fill in well-but- 
tered molds at once, let raise and bake like 
above. 

The cakes may be dusted with sugar and cin- 
namon while warm, or buttered before adding 
the sugar. 

For other cakes of this class, see FRENCH 
BABAS and SAVAEINE CAKES and others, 
Nos. 408 to 412. 

1023.— DOUGHNUTS. 

For plain Doughnuts take from Nos. 969 to 
971. The better grades may be made from the 
mixtures Nos. 972 to 977. 

The cakes are fried in hot lard. The lard 
should have the right degree of heat when the 
cakes are put in, otherwise the grease will soak 
into the cakes and make them unfit for use. 

One other point which should be watched is 
not to give full proof, or use too much baking 
powder, as the cakes would get too porous and 
soak in the grease. 

Eoll out the dough into a large sheet, about 
half an inch thick, cut with the Doughnut cut- 
ter, set in cloth-lined boxes to prove; cover, and 
give about three-quarter proof. Fry in hot 
lard. Dust with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

1024.— BERLIN PAN CAKE. 
BISMARKS. 
Take from standard dough No. 977, and have 



1025.— VIENNA KEAPFEN. 
Take from the mixture No. 973. Eoll out a 
thin sheet about one-quarter inch thick. Cut 
rounds with a scalloped cutter, put a dot of 
jam in the centre, wash the edge and put an- 
other piece on top; press the edges together, 
set in cloths, let raise and fry in hot lard. 
Finish like doughnuts. 

1026.— DOUGHNUTS WITH BAKING POW- 
DER. 

CRULLERS WITH BAKING POWDER. 

No. I. Two pounds of flour, one ounce of 
baking powder, four ounces of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, eight yolks, two whole eggs, 
one gill of milk, lemon extract and mace. 

No. II. Three pounds of flour, one and one- 
half ounces of baking powder, six ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of sugar, from six to eight 
eggs, one and one-half pints of milk, flavor. 

No. III. Four pounds of flour, one pound of 
sugar, four ounces of butter, two ounces of 
baking powder, four eggs, one quart of milk, 
lemon and mace. 

Sift the baking powder into the flour; cream 
butter and sugar with^the eggs, add flavor, and 
mix all together to a smooth dough. Cut with 
the doughnut cutter, or the cruller cutter, and 
twist them. Fry and flnish like doughnuts. 

1027.— BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS. 
SOUE MILK DOUGHNUTS. 
Prepare like the other recipes without bak- 
ing powder. Add for each pint of buttermilk 
one teaspoonful of baking soda. 

When using sour milk it is often necessary 
to add some cream of tartar, sifted in the flour, 
to neutralize all of the soda. 

1028.— FEENCH CEULLEES. 
Prepare the paste No. 105, and make like the 
ring fritters, see No. 693. 

1029.— ENGLISH MUFFINS. 
ENGLISH CEUMPETS. 

Muffins and Crumpets are very popular in 
England, where they are consumed in large 
quantities. They are made and sold in the 
muffin shops, and also peddled on the streets. 
Both are raised with yeast and baked on the 
griddle, or hot plate, like the wheat and buck- 
wheat cakes. 

The muffins are served hot, pulled apart in 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



halves (not cut), and spread with butter. They 
are also eaten with milk or cream. 

The English muffins should be about three 
inches in diameter and one inch thick when 
baked. 

The crumpets are about five to six inches in 
diameter, and about one-quarter of an inch 
thick. 

In some of the American restaurants or 
lunch rooms the crumpets are baked in the 
smaller muffin rings, and are served as English 
muffins. 

Take two quarts of water, or use half milk, 
one ounce of yeast, half an ounce of salt, and 
a good bread flour. 

Make a soft dough, work it well, but make it 
slack like a sponge; set it about luke warm, 
let raise to the drop, beat it down again, and 
let come up half. 

Prepare some bread boxes and fill with sifted 
flour about three inches deep. Take a muffin 
cup, or a coffee cup of small size, and make 
half-round impressions in the flour, a little 
distance apart. Drop the dough out by hand, 
in the impressions, in two-ounce pieces, just like 
drop cake; dust over with a little flour; cover, 
and let prove to near double size. Lift care- 
fully from the flour, stretch lightly, but keep in 
shape, and place on the griddle to bake. 

, Some bakers set these muffins in rings to keep 
an even shape. 

When done on one side, turn carefully over 
with cake or palette knife, and finish baking. 

The best muffins of this kind are made from 
pure milk without any water, and some muffin- 
makers make the dough just firm enough so it 
can be molded, instead of dropping out. 

A richer kind of muffin is made from two 
quarts of milk, two ounces of yeast, twelve 
ounces of sugar, twelve ounces of butter, eight 
eggs, half an ounce of salt, a little grated nut- 
meg or mace. These are called SALLY LTJNN 
MUFFINS, and are baked like the English 
muffins. 

1030.— ENGLISH CRUMPETS. 

Take two pounds of flour, one quart of milk, 
half an ounce of salt, one ounce of yeast. 

Make this into a soft batter, about blood 
warm. Let raise to the drop, beat down again 
very smooth, and let raise about half. The bat- 
ter should be of a thick flowing consistency, 
thicker than buckwheat or wheat cake batter. 
Fill the batter in a dipper with a deep spout; 
grease the griddle and the rings; place the 
rings on the griddle and fill nearly full with the 
batter, spreading it with the palette knife. 
When colored to a nice brown at the bottom, 
turn over with the ring and finish baking. 

Both muffin and crumpets can be made from 
a large water or milk sponge; taking to five 



pounds of sponge, half an ounce of salt, and 
work it to the right thickness — firmer for 
muffins, and slacker for crumpets. 

1031.— CBUMPETS WITH BAKING 
POWDEE. 

Two pounds of flour, one and one-half ounces 
of baking powder, two ounces of butter or lard, 
two ounces of sugar or molasses, half an ounce 
of salt, one quart of water and milk mixed. 

Sift the baking powder in the flour with the 
sugar and salt, add the milk gradually and beat 
into a thick batter, and add the melted butter. 
Bake like the other crumpets. 

By adding a little more flour — about eight to 
ten ounces — it could be made into an imitation 
of the English muffin; cutting with a large cut- 
ter, and baking it like the muffins. 

1032.— AMEEICAN BUTTEE CAKES. 

Butter cakes are baked like the English 
muffins, and are raised with yeast, or with bak- 
ing powder, or soda. The mixture is cut out 
like tea biscuits, set in boxes, proved, and 
baked on the griddle. They are sold in many 
restaurants and lunch rooms. 

Take four pounds of flour, three pints of but- 
termilk, half an ounce of salt, half an ounce 
of soda, two yolks of eggs, and one ounce of 
melted butter.. 

Take half cake-flour and half bread-flour; 
sift with the salt and soda three times; put in 
a bowl, make a bay in the centre and add two 
pints of the milk; work in the flour and add the 
butter and the rest of the milk. A little more 
milk may be required, according to the strength 
of the flours. Work well into a very smooth 
dough, like for a soft tea biscuit dough. Put 
on the table, flatten into a square and let rest 
for half an hour to lose its springiness; roll 
out, let rest again to loosen up; then cut with 
a large biscuit cutter. Set in cloth-lined and 
dusted boxes; let raise, well covered, to about 
one inch thick, and bake on the griddle, like the 
muffins. 

1033.- SALLY LUNN. 
2 quarts milk, 2 ozs. yeast, 12 ozs. sugar, 8 eggs, 
12 ozs. butter, % oz. salt, flavor mace or 
nutmeg. 

Set a warm sponge with three pints of milk. 
When ready, add the remaining pint of milk, 
eggs, salt and sugar; add flour and the soft- 
ened butter. Make a soft dough, but work it 
well ; make it as slack as it can be handled. Let 
prove up and double in size, and work over; 
then scale in eight to ten-ounce pieces, mold 
round on the board, set in greased pie tins, or 
layer cake tins, and flatten to fill the tins; 
brush over with melted butter and let prove up 
half. Take the dough scraper and out each cake 
in four pieces, set back to finish proving, and 
bake in a good heat. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BRBADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



This mixture may be used like for English 
muffins, as indicated at the bottom of No. 1029. 

1034.— SALLY LTTNN MUPPINS WITH 
BAKING POWDEB. 
4 lbs. flour, 3 ozs. baking powder, 3 pints milk, 
6 ozs. sugar, 8 ozs. butter, 8 oggs, % oz. salt, 
a little mace. 
Mix like No. 1031. Bake in muffin cups, or 
in rings. Set on a baking sheet in a well- 
heated oven. 

SCOTCH SCONES. 
iq35.— PLAIN SCONES WITH BUTTER- 
MILK. 

Scones are eaten in large quantities in Eng- 
land and Scotland. The scones are made plain 
with flour, buttermilk, salt and soda, and some 
bakers add lard or butter. The fancy kinds 
are made richer; sugar and butter is added, 
also flavorings, raisins, currants and peel. Soda 
and cream of tartar and baking powders are 
used in place of buttermUk and soda. Scones 
are eaten hot like muffins, split and buttered. 
The mixing should be done quickly, before the 
soda and acid works out. 

Take three and one-half pounds of flour, one 
ounce of soda, half an ounce of salt, and four 
ounces of butter. 

Eub the butter in one part of the flour, sift 
soda and salt in the other part; mix together 
and add about three pints, or less, of butter- 
milk to make a smooth dough; divide in twelve- 
ounce pieces, mold round; then roll out half an 
inch thick; cut each round crosswise with the 
dough scraper in four pieces, like for Sally 
Lunn. Set on pie tins so they do not touch 
too close, prick with a fork and set in the 
proof box for about fifteen minutes, to raise. 
Wash with egg-wash and bake in a good heat. 

If no buttermilk is at hand, use sweet milk; 
leave out the soda, and sift two teaspoonfuls 
of soda and four and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar in the flour. Make and finish 
as directed. 

1036.— FANCY SCONES. 
Take four pounds of flour, two yolks, one 
ounce of soda, two and one-quarter ounces of 
cream of tartar, a little salt, eight ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of sugar, lemon and mace; 
add half a pound of currants, or half a pound 
of sultana raisins; or, half a pound of mixed 
peel, currants and raisins. Mix and bake like 
plain scones. 

1037.— NEW YOEK BUTTER CAKES. 

Take one quart of milk, one pound of flour, 
eight ounces of butter, eight ounces of sugar. 

Set milk, sugar and butter on the fire and 
let come to a boil ; then stir in the sifted flour, 
like you would make a cream puff mixture; take 
off the fire, let cool a little, and work into this 
paste five yolks and five whole eggs. 



Take about two and one-half pounds of white 
yeast-raised sponge, and work this with the 
scalded paste and some more flour to a smooth 
dough. Let this dough rest and prove for half 
an hour; then roll out and cut into large bis- 
cuits, like other butter cakes. Set in cloth-lined, 
well-dusted boxes; let prove, and bake like No. 
1032. 

The same mixture may be made into butter 
biscuit, using a smaller cutter. Set on pans 
single, let prove, wash with egg-wash and leave 
plain, or dip in granulated sugar before setting 
on the pan, and bake in a medium hot oven. 

1038.— YEAST RAISED MUPPIN8. 
SWEET BISCUITS. 
4 lbs. flour, 1% ozs. yeast, 3 pints milk, 8 eggS, 
8 ozs. sugar, 12 ozs. butter, a little salt, flavor 
mace. 

Prepare and raise the dough like for No. 
1033. When ready, fill into greased muffin 
rings placed on a baking sheet; fill the rings 
half with the batter, let prove up full, and 
bake ii a good heat. 

1039.— WHEAT MUFFINS. 
2 lbs. flour, 1% ozs. baking powder, 8 ozs. but- 
ter, 5 ozs. sugar, 5 eggs, 1 quart of milk, a 
little salt and mace. 
Cream butter and sugar, sift baking powder 
in the flour, and mix like for cakes. Fill into 
rings like No. 1038, or in muffin cups, and bake 
in medium heat. 

1040.— GRAHAM MUFFINS. 
Take mixture No. 959 and bake in muffin 
cups. 

1041.— CORN MUFFINS. 

2 lbs. wheat flour, 1 lb. cornmeal, 12 ozs. sugar, 

2 ozs. baking powder, 8 ozs. butter, 8 eggs, salt, 

2% pints of mUk. 

Mix like cake and fill into well-greased cups. 

Bake at once in a good heat. 

1042.— JOHNNY CAKE. 
Take the mixture No. 1041, and bake in deep 
pie tins. 

1043.— RICE MUFFINS. 
Take mixture No. 1039; add one cupful of 
boiled rice, rub through a sieve, and bake like 
other muffins. 

1044.— POPOVER MUFFINS. 

These muffins are best baked in high cups or 
large sized timbale molds. No baking powder 
is used. They puff up very high and are hol- 
low. A very thin batter is required. They may 
be baked in small quantities from the same bat- 
ter, because the muffins get tough and soft, and 
lose much of their goodness when cold. They 
are excellent when eaten hot and crisp with 
good butter. 

Take one pound and four ounces of flour, 
eight eggs, one pint of milk, one pint of water 
(or use one quart of skimmed milk), one tea- 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



spoonful of salt. Beat eggs and milk and water 
together, add salt and the well-sifted flour ; beat 
all together to a thin batter free from lumps. 
Fill the well-greased molds about half with the 
batter and bake in medium heat for thirty 
minutes. 

1045.— RYE MUFFINS. 

Take one pound of rye flour, half a pound of 
wheat flour, six ounces of white eornmeal sifted 
with one and one-half ounces of baking powder ; 
add four ounces of sugar, four eggs, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; mix this with about one quart 
of milk, and add four ounces of melted butter. 
Bake like wheat muflBns. 

1046.— GINGER MUFFINS. 

Take twelve ounces of sugar, six ounces of 
butter or lard, one and one-half pints of milk, 
one and one-half pints of molasses, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of all- 
spice, a little salt, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
four eggs. 

Mix like ginger bread, adding flour to make 
a soft batter. Fill into well-greased cups and 
bake in medium heat. 

The Ginger Bread mixtures Nos. 298 and 299 
may also be used for mufl&ns. 

1047.— SPICED MUFFINS. 
1% lbs. cake crumbs, 1% lbs. flour, 4 ozs. lard, 
1 lb. sugar, 1 pint molasses, 8 eggs, i^ oz. soda, 

1 tablespoonful allspice and ginger, a little salt. 
Mix with milk like for cakes, not too soft. 

Fill into mufSn cups, and bake in medium hot 
oven. 

1048.— EGG MUFFINS. 
1% lbs. flour, 10 eggs, 1 lb. sugar, 8 ozs. butter, 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the 
flour, % pint milk, a pinch of salt; flavor mace 
and lemon. 

Mix like for cakes, and bake in muffin cups 
in medium heat. 

1049.— TEA BISCUIT. No. 1. 

3 lbs. flour, 3 ozs. baking powder, 2 ozs. sugar, 

6 ozs. butter or lard, % oz. salt. 

1050.— TEA BISCUIT. No. 2. 

12 lbs. flour, 8 ozs. cream of tartar, 4 quarts 

milk, 3 ozs. soda, 6 ozs. salt, 2 lbs. lard. 

1051.— SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 
2% lbs. flour, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 4 ozs. butter, 

2 small teaspoonfuls soda, 1 quart sour milk! 
Sift soda in the flour, rub the lard in one 

part of the flour, and mix all into a light 
dough. Roll out and cut into biscuits, set close 
together, wash with milk and egg-wash, and 
bake in a good heat. 

1052.— SWEET BISCUITS. 
Take four pounds of flour, one pound of but- 
ter or lard, twelve ounces of sugar, six eggs, 
flavor of vanilla or lemon, two and one-half 
ounces of baking powder, about one and one- 
half pints of milk. 



Mix like for cakes, and make in a dough like 
for other tea biscuits. Mold in round pieces 
like for rolls; set together so they touch lightly 
m baking; wash with a light egg-wash and 
bake in a good heat. 

1053.— PLYMOUTH ROCK BISCUITS. 
Take mixture No. 1052. Roll out half an 
inch thick and cut with oval crimped cutter; 
set on pans single, wash with egg and put a 
strip of cut citron in the centre. Bake in 
medium hot oven. 

1054.— CURRANT BISCUIT. 

3 lbs. flour, 2% ozs. baking powder, 10 ozs. 

sugar, 10 ozs. butter, a scant quart of milk, a 

little salt, 3 eggs, 12 ozs. currants, flavor mace 

and lemon. 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs, sift flour and 
baking powder, and mix into a soft dough; 
roll out and cut in large biscuits. "Wash and 
bake as usual. 

To these sweet mixtures seeds of caraway or 
anise may be added; also raisins or chopped 
almonds, and a variety of biscuits can be made 
in this manner, and given the appropriate 
names. 

Left-over biscuits, without fruit, may be 
toasted like zwieback, and served as TOASTED 
TEA RUSK or zwieback. 

The same mixtures can be made a little firmer 
with more flour, and molded in oval or finger 
shapes, set on pans single, washed and baked 
plain, or with a sprinkling of sugar on top of 
each biscuit; or molded round, and then made 
in shape of the pocket-book roll, etc., etc. 

1055.— SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUITS. 

Beaten Biscuits are made in many Southern 
families, and also in hotels. They are not well 
known in the Northern States, and are, in fact, 
more like a cracker than like a biscuit. The 
Maryland or Virginia biscuit is made of water 
and looks like the well-known water-cracker, 
and is made of the same size. The other 
Beaten Biscuit is made with milk and of a 
smaller size. Both require a firm dough. The 
dough is beaten and folded over till it blisters. 
A large heavy club or a big rolling pin is gen- 
erally used 'for this purpose. Where larger 
quantities are made, roUe'^s are used like in 
cracker bakeries. 

1056.— MARYLAND BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Take one pound of old dough left over from 
baking, and thin this up with one pint of water, 
add one teaspoonful of salt and four ounces of 
butter or lard. 

Mix this all together with more flour into a 
firm dough. Beat with pin till smooth. Form 
in long roll and break in pieces, mold round 
and let rest on the table, well-covered with a 
moist cloth, to recover; flatten each biscuit, and 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



»«8 



Bet on pans, and let rest again; then press each 
one down in the center, prick with the fork a 
couple of times and bake in a hot oven. 

1057.— SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Take two pounds of flour, two ounces of lard, 
a little salt, and mix with milk to a medium 
firm dough. Beat this dough till it blisters; let 
rest well covered. Roll out to one-third of an 
inch thick; let rest and recover. Cut with a 
small cutter not more than two inches in 
diameter, put on pans, prick, and bake in 
medium heat. 

The dough should be kept moist during the 
rest, to prevent drying out; this gives the bis- 
cuits a nice color in baking. Very little flour 
should be used for dusting. 

1058.— SOUTHERN CORN BREAD. 

The Corn Bread as made in the Southern 
States is not well known in the Northern parts 
of this country. I think it should be introduced 
more in lunch rooms and hotels, and would 
find a ready sale, and could be sold with profit. 
It is good only when fresh made and eaten 
while hot. It is very good to eat and every- 
body likes it. It may be kept hot for several 
hours in a moist heater, or on the stove, covered 
with a damp cloth. 

Southern people think the white cornmeal the 
best, because the yellow meal often has got a 
bitter taste. The coarse-eountry-ground meal 
is preferred, but the medium ground and a 
very fine ground meal called "cream meal" is 
also used with success. The coarse meal re- 
quires more scalding than the fine ground meal. 

No wheat fiour is used in this bread; it is 
made from cornmeal only, mixed with milk or 
water, some shortening and a few eggs. It is 
raised with sour milk and soda, or sweet milk 
is used with baking powder, which is more 
liable to produce a uniform bread. 

Half of the meal used is generally scalded 
with boiling water; the other part is mixed in 
dry with milk. 

It may be baked in square cake pans, and 
baked about one and one-half inches thick. 

In families the pan is made hot in the oven 
and the batter filled in without greasing the 
pans. In hotels it is baked in the deep cus- 
tard pie tins. The tins are well greased, filled 
nearly full, and baked in a good hot oven with 
plenty of top heat. Insufficient heat causes 
the bread to crack open in baking; it should 
bake up round and smooth. 

1059.— SOUTHERN FAMILY CORN BREAD. 

4 lbs. white cornmeal, 12 ozs. lard, 8 eggs, 

2 quarts boiling water, 3 pints milk, or more; 

.% oz. salt, 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Put the meal in the dishpan; make a bay on 



one side of the meal, add the boiling water and 
mix with about half of the meal, and add the 
salt and lard; let cool a little, then add the 
milk and eggs; mix well together and, last, add 
the baking powder. (If sour milk is used, 
leave out the baking powder, and add three 
small teaspoonfuls of soda.) 

Fill the batter, which should be very thin, 
into well-greased pie-tins, and bake as directed. 

To eat, cut in slices, split each slice and 
spread with fresh butter, and you will have a 
corn bread fit for a king. 

1060.— SOUTHERN CORN PONE. 
DODGERS. 
PONE. 

In some parts this bread is called Pone, in 
other parts Dodgers. 

In families, a pan is set on the stove, and 
when hot the mixture is spooned out in small 
egg-shapes on the hot pan; then the pan is put 
in the oven to bake. 

In hotels a larger size is made; the mixture 
is set on greased baking pans with a basting 
spoon, single, and baked in a good hot oven. 

Mix cornmeal with cold water into a soft 
mush, adding about half an ounce of lard to 
each pound of meal, and a pinch of salt. Make 
the mixture just thick enough to keep shape, 
and bake as directed. 

1061.— HOE CAKE. 

Hoe Cake may be made from the same mix- 
ture the Dodgers are made of, with a little 
more lard and water added; but are better if 
a part of the meal is scalded. 

Take three pounds of meal, a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a pound of lard, and one pint of boil- 
ing water. Scald part of the meal and add the 
lard and salt; mix with more water or milk to 
a soft mush. Put this in spoonfuls on the hot 
griddle, fiatten with the spoon and bake like 
corn cakes. 

1062.— NEW ORLEANS CORN BREAD, 

YEAST RAISED. 

3 lbs. bread flour (spring wheat), 1 lb. white 

cornmeal, 1 oz. yeast, 2 ozs. molasses, 4 ozs. 

lard, Yg oz. salt. 

Take one pint of warm water, dissolve the 
yeast in it; add the molasses, and with a part 
of the wheat flour set a sponge. Scald the 
cornmeal with some boiling water into a soft 
mush, adding the lard and salt. When the 
sponge is ready, add about one pint of milk or 
water to the sponge and the mush. Make a 
slack dough, let raise again, work over, scale, 
mold in loaves; put into pans with a cover, or 
cover pans in baking. Give medium proof, and 
bake in moderate heat. 



124 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



1063.— SOUTHEEN BTJTTEEMILK BREAD. 

2 lbs. cornmeal, 2 lbs. wheat flour, 6 oz. lard, 
% oz. salt, 2 ozs. sugar, 4 eggs, 1 oz. soda, 

1 quart of buttermilk. 
Scald half of the meal with one pint of 
water, add sugar and lard, sift the soda in the 
wheat flour. Mix and cool down the meal with 
the buttermilk, add eggs and the other flour, 
and make up like a tea biscuit dough. Divide 
into loaves, set in pans and bake in a good heat. 

1064.— SOUTHEEN EEUIT BEEAD. 

Take ten pounds of white bread sponge; add 
one quart of molasses, eight ounces of lard, one 
pound of currants, eight ounces of raisins, one 
ounce of allspice, and one ounce of salt. 

Work this into the sponge with more flour j 
let rest and come up once. Scale in loaves, and 
bake in tins as usual. 

1065.— NUT BEEAD. 

3 lbs. whole wheat flour, 1 lb. patent flour, 

1 lb. ground peanuts, % pt. molasses, 3 pts. 
milk, 1 oz. cream of tartar, % oz. soda, % oz. 
salt. 

Sift soda and cream of tartar in the patent 
flour, and mix with the other flour and the 
ground nuts. Mix with the milk and molasses 
into a smooth dough, mold into loaves, and 
bake in long narrow pans in a good heat. 

Other nut meats may be used, and the 
graham and whole wheat breads may be made 
into nut breads in the same manner. 

1066.— OATEN BEEAD. 

2 lbs. oatmeal, 2 lbs. graham flour, 2 lbs. wheat 
flour, 1 oz. yeast, 1 quart water, 1 quart milk, 

1 cup molasses, 4 ozs. lard, 1 oz. salt. 
Set a warm sponge with yeast, water and 
wheat flour. When ready, make a dough rather 
slack with the milk and other ingredients. Let 
come up once, then mold into loaves, pan and 
give only medium proof, and bake in good heat. 

1067.— HOTEL WAFFLES. 

HOTEL GEIDDLE CAKES. 

The best kinds of Waffles and Griddle Cakes 
can be made just like the yeast-raised English 
Crumpets No. 1030, by adding the enriching 
ingredients when the sponge is ready; then 
beating the batter well together, and let raise 
again for half an hour or so. 

For waflles, the batter is made of about the 
same thickness as for crumpets; for the other 
Griddle Cakes a softer batter is required. 

For TEAST-RAISED WAFFLES add to the 
Crumpet mixture, for each pound of flour, four 
whole eggs, or six to eight yolks; four ounces 
of butter, and one ounce of sugar. Flavor of 
cinnamon, mace, lemon, or vanilla may be 
added. 



For the GEIDDLE CAKES, add to eaci 
pound of flour one and one-half ounces of sugar 
or syrup, from one to two ounces of butter, 
salt and two whole eggs, or yolks only. 

The waffle irons or gxiddle should be hot and 
well greased when the batter is filled in. 

The waffles are often dusted with sugar and 
cinnamon or vanilla sugar when baked, and are 
also served plain and eaten with honey or 
syrup, or with milk and cream like the griddle 
cakes. 

1068.— WAFFLES with BAKING POWDEE. 

Take four pounds of flour, two ounces of bak- 
ing powder, four ounces of sugar, one pound 
of butter, eight yolks and six whole eggs, a lit- 
tle salt, flavor of mace or lemon. 

Sift the baking powder in the flour, beat 
eggs and sugar, add about two quarts of milk 
and mix well; beat in the melted butter, and 
bake in well-greased irons. 

1069.- CEEAM WAFFLES WITH SOUE 

CEEAM OE BUTTEEMILK. 

2 lbs. flour sifted with % oz. of soda, 12 yolks, 

1 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt. 

If buttermilk is used, add six ounces of 

melted butter; no butter is required if creani 

is used. Mix and bake like No. 1068. 

1070.— FRENCH WAFFLES. 
2 lbs. flour, % oz. baking powder, 2 ozs. sug.!*, 
4 ozs. butter, 12 eggs, a little salt, 1 quart milk. 

Separate the eggs, mix like No. 1068; add 
the whites of eggs, beaten to a flrm froth, ths 
last thing, and mix in carefully. Bake lik» the 
others. 

1071.— HOLLAND WAFFLES. 
SPEING WAFFLES. 

These waffles are fried in hot lard like the 
Roman cases (see Nos. 106 and 107). The iron 
used is formed in a coil. It is heated in the 
grease, then dipped in the batter almost to th^ 
edge, and back again in the hot grease. When 
done, the waffle is removed from the iron by a 
slight knock, and served with sugar or cinna- 
mon. 

It is also served as a sweet entree or dessert, 
with a compote of prunes or other fruit, or with 
a rich vanilla cream sauce. 

Take one pound and eight ounces of flour, six 
ounces of sugar, one pint of milk and ten well- 
beaten eggs. 

Mix flour, sugar and milk smooth, then add 
the eggs and mix again, and use as directed. 

1071a.— EOSETTE WAFEES. 
ROSETTE WAFFLES. 
The Eossettes are similar to Spring Waffles. 
The irons are patented and sold in all depart- 
ment stores, two different shapes, with handle, 
for fifty cents. The irons are smaller than the 
spring waffle irons. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



MS 



The recipe for the batter is: Two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, one cup of 
milk, one cup of flour (a little more if neces- 
sary). Beat eggs slightly with sugar and salt, 
add the milk and flour and beat until smooth. 

If wanted for oysters, etc., leave the sugar 
out of the batter. 

The Eosette Wafers make a very nice dessert 
to be served with strawberries or sliced peaches 
and whipped cream; also with preserved fruits 
or jams. They are very nice if served with 
whipped cream sprinkiled thickly with chopped 
nuts or browned almonds, etc.; or they may Be 
served plain, hot or cold, with powdered sugar 
and cinnamon dusted over them. 

The same wafers, without the sugar, may be 
used as a canape for oysters, creamed chicken 
or veal, with asparagus or poached or scrambled 
eggs; and any vegetable with a cream sauce can 
be served in the same way. 

1072.— WHEAT CAKES. 
FLANNEL CAKES. 

Sift together three pounds of flour, three 
ounces of baking powder, six ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt; mix 
with milk to a thin batter, add six beaten eggs 
(or the yolks only), and three ounces of 
melted butter. 

For FLANNEL CAKES four ounces of corn- 
meal may be added. 

1073.— GEAHAM CAKES. 

WHOLE WHEAT CAKES. 
Graham cakes may be raised with yeast, like 
buckwheat cakes, or with baking powder in the 
following manner : Take two pounds of graham 
flour, or whole wheat flour, and two pounds of 
wheat flour; sift three ounces of baking powder 
and half a teaspoonful of soda in the wheat 
flour; mix both flours together, add milk to 
make a soft batter, also half a pint of molasses, 
four beaten eggs, four ounces of melted butter, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix smooth and 
bake like wheat cakes. 

1074.— BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 
Take four pounds of buckwheat flour and one 
ounce of yeast ; set a soft sponge in the evening 
with water. In the morning add one cupful of 
molasses, four to six ounces of melted butter, 
one ounce of salt, and one cupful of milk. Beat 
this all well together, and if the batter is too 
thin add some sifted wheat flour (some people 
prefer cornmeal). Let rise for ten minutes and 
bake. Keep the batter in a cool place, and add 
a teaspoonful of soda to prevent turning sour. 

1075.— BUCKWHEAT CAKES with BAK- 
ING POWDEE. 
Add to four pounds of buckwheat flour four 



ounces of baking powder and half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Mix with half milk and water to a 
soft batter; add one cupful of molasses, six 
ounces of melted butter, and one ounce of salt, 
and bake as usual. 

1076.— BOSTON GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Use the self-raising Boston brown bread 
flour; or, use one pound of wheat flour, one 
pound of rye flour, one pound of graham flour, 
and one pound of cornmeal; add three ounces 
of baking powder, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
one cup of molasses, four eggs, six ounces of 
butter, and half an ounce of salt. Mix with 
milk like Graham Cakes No. 1073. 

1077.— CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Take one pound of wheat flour, one pound of 
cornmeal, two ounces of baking powder, four 
ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, four 
eggs, and a little salt. Mix with milk and bake 
like Wheat Cakes No. 1072. 

1078.— EICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Make the wheat cake batter, and add one cup 
or more of soft boiled rice. 

1079.— GEEMAN PAN. CAKES. 

Take one pound of flour, twelve eggs, a little 
salt; mix with cream or milk. 

Separate the eggs; stir the flour with the 
milk, smooth; add the yolks and salt, add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. 

Have the frying pan hot, put in some butter, 
and fry in rather thick cakes to a nice brown 
color on both sides. Dust with sugar and cin- 
namon and serve. 

1080.— APPLE PAN CAKE. 
Use the batter No. 1079. Peel and slice 
very thin some good cooking apples, or chop 
like mince meat. Mix with the batter, and fry 
in butter on both sides till the apples are soft. 
Dust with sugar and cinnamon. 

1081.— POTATO PAN CAKE. 
Take half a pound of boiled and cooled pota- 
toes, grate or rub through a sieve; add two 
ounces of flour and two ounces of sugar; mix 
with twelve yolks and five ounces of melted but- 
ter; add a pinch of salt, the grated rind of 
half a lemon, a little mace; mix well and add 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Fry in butter 
on both sides. Dust with powdered sugar and 
serve. 

1082.— THE USE OF FEUITS IN CAKES 
AND BUNS. 
When using fruit in buns or coffee cakes, the 
fruit should be prepared the day before using. 
Eaisins, currants and chopped peel are often 
used in very dry condition; they draw moisture 
from the cakes and make them dry. It is pref- 



126 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



erable to moisten the quantity of fruit used 
for each day, the day before, with a light 
Byrup; the fruit gets soft and regains the 
natural shape. In this way it is more accept- 
able in cakes and much better to eat. 

1083.— EGG- WASH AND OTHEE GLAZINGS 
FOE BEEAD, EOLLS AND BUNS. 
To give a glazing to breads and rolls after 
baking, a thin wash of cornstarch is generally 
used for breads which are not baked in steam. 
The wash is made with one and one-half ounce 
to two ounces of cornstarch and one quart of 
boiling water. Potato starch gives the best 
gloss, and can be made from raw grated pota- 
toes 

Peel and grate four medium-sized potatoes in 
one pint of water; mix well and strain through 
a sieve, the starch will settle on the bottom 
after a few minutes; add about one more pint 
of boiling water, and stir on the fire till it is 
clear and like mucilage; then it is ready for 
use. 

A wash for buns is made from gelatin or gum 
arable, which has also to be used while the buns 
are hot. Dissolve one ounce of gum in cold 
water; when soft, pour over about three pints 
of boiling water and stir till dissolved; add a 
little alum or salt, and keep the wash in a cold 
place. 

Egg-wash may be made of different degrees 
of strength by mixing yolks of eggs with water 
or milk. 

For a rich-looking wash a little burnt sugar 
is often added, or egg color. 

The wash is applied to the goods before bak- 
ing. 

1084.— THE MANIPULATION OF BEEAD- 
MAKING EECIPES. 

At the closing of this chapter on Bread- 
Making I would like to say a few words in re- 
gard to working of the recipes. 

The difference of the flours used in all parts 



of this country make it difficult to state the 
exact quantity of flour and liquids used; and to 
insist upon the exact amounts would certainly 
invite failure, and would cause the mixtures to 
be either too slack or too flrm, according to 
the strength of the flour. For this reason much 
depends on the intelligent judgment of the 
workman, to add to or decrease the amount of 
flour and liquid. 

The treatment of yeasts, sponge and doughs, 
and the use of the thermometer has been ex- 
plained in the opening of this chapter. 

Machinery is being used more and more every 
day. Most all modern bakeries use dough 
mixers, dough dividing and molding machines, 
which lighten the heavy labor in baking. 

To regain the flavor of the malt and stock 
yeasts formerly used, progressive bakers who 
use compressed yeast add malt extract, malt 
sugar, or grape sugar in baking, and use potato 
flour in starch form in place of the potato fer- 
ment, to give moisture and flavor to the bread. 

Malt extract, also grape sugar, if added to 
the sponge, acts as a stimulant and ripens the 
sponge more rapidly, but loses some of the malt 
flavor during this process; therefore, if used as 
flavor, it is preferable to add it to the dough 
where more of the flavor is retained. The 
potato flour in starch form may be used in 
sponge and dough to keep the bread moist. 

Salt is used as a flavor, and also as a check 
on fermentation; it prevents the souring of the 
dough, and should be used more freely in sum- 
mer than in winter. 

It has been demonstrated by practical bakers 
that it is best to add the lard used in baking, 
after all the flour is worked into the dough, 
which makes the dough finer of grain. The 
doughs should be well worked, and plenty of air 
beaten into it. This increases the proving qual- 
ities and gets it ready in a shorter time for the 
oven. 



THE PASTRY-ROOM IN THE HOTEL. 



The art of making bread and pastry consists 
of several distinct trades, and to be successful 
and become perfect in this art takes years of 
hard work and study. While outside of the 
hotel Breadmaking, Cakes and Pastry, Ice 
Cream Making, and also the Preserving of 
Fruit are special vocations, in the hotel they 
are combined into one business, and the work 
is often performed by one person. 

In the largest hotels the work is divided into 
several parts: a regular baker is employed for 
the bread baking, but under the supervision of 



the pastry cook, who is supposed to understand 
both branches. 

Besides the four different trades named 
above, the pastry cook must know how to pre- 
pare a variety of Hot and Cold Puddings, and 
is often asked to make Candies and prepare 
Ornamental Fancy Pieces for decorating the 
tables for special occasions. 

Baking and pastry work is more difficult to 
learn, and it requires a longer time than the 
meat cooking; and although the two branches 
of hotel work are closely affiliated to each other, 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



127 



the pastry work is not paid as well. I think 
this is one of the reasons why good pastry cooks 
are more scarce to-day than good meat cooks. 

Many a young baker or confectioner starts to 
work in the pastry room to learn the trade. He 
has probably been at his own trade for several 
years, and wants to learn pastry cooking. After 
some years of hard work he loses courage; he 
Bees some other young fellow in the kitchen who 
started to learn the meat cooking at the same 
time he started in the pastry-room, and had no 
idea of cooking, getting away ahead of him, 
getting into better paying places, having a 
larger salary, and, often, even shorter hours of 
work; or more time off. The next chance this 
young man gets he leaves the pastry-room for 
the kitchen, or goes back to his first trade. 

Bread and pastry making requires to rise 
early in the morning to have the rolls ready for 
breakfast. And because the pastry is the last 
course of the dinner, the pastry cook is often 
the last man in the kitchen, when all the other 
cooks are off duty. I have known several of 
the best pastry cooks who have quit the pastry- 
room for the kitchen, and who have become very 
good chefs in a short time. 

THE PASTHY-EOOM. 

A good pastry-room should consist of two 
parts adjoining each other : one, the warm part, 
with the> oven in it ; and a cool part, the pastry- 
room proper. 

Bread making requires a warm even tempera- 
ture free from drafts. 

Pastry making, cake baking, and the making 
of cold puddings requires a cool place — the 
cooler the better. 

These two different facts have been in recent 
years often neglected. In the endeavor to have 
an ideal kitchen, and have the working depart- 
ments on the same floor with the dining-room, 
the pastry-room is often squeezed into such a 
small space, that it is almost impossible to do 
good work. 

The lack of space compels the use of portable 
ovens, which take up less room, but radiate 
more heat than the ovens built of bricks. 

The open wire partitions in those kitchens 
also cause drafts, and often more additional 
heat from the near-by range. This makes it 
still more diflficult to do good work. 

Although it is desirable to have the pastry- 
room on the same floor as the kitchen, because 
it saves time and help, and also gives better 
service, too much concentration is detrimental 
to good work. 

A properly constructed shop, equipped with 
the right kind of appliances, makes work a 
pleasure, while unsatisfactory arrangements 



cause loss of money, spoil good materials, and 
are often the cause of frequent changes of help. 
This is largely because a good workman prides 
himself in doing good work, which cannot be 
done if the conditions of the shop do not per- 
mit it. 

SEEVING OF PASTBT. 

The proper serving of pastry is an art, which 
is of as much importance as the making of it. 
It requires well-trained skilled help, and should 
be done from the pastry-room if possible. What 
is the good of making dainties, if they are not 
served in the proper way? 

The dishes in which the different things are 
served in should be selected so they can be used 
with the proper effect. Ornamental puddings 
and jellies, fancy charlottes, ices and creams, 
look better if served in shallow dishes. It 
shows off to advantage the side decorations, and 
makes it look larger. In a deep saucer the 
pudding would lose much of its attractiveness. 
The sauces should be served in a decorative 
manner. 

Whipped cream, sweetened, makes a nice 
sauce for decorating, and may be used for 
almost any cold pudding, and for many other 
dishes. 

A proper taste in colors and flavors, also in 
forms, is required in serving, and many a plain 
dish can be made very attractive, if this point 
is observed. 

A variety of different shaped molds should be 
used for puddings to make a change. If dif- 
ferent puddings are made always in the same 
forms, they look very much alike, and this must 
be avoided. 

Puddings should be made as much as possible 
in individual molds, from which they can be 
turned out before serving; and this is also a 
more economical way. Other puddings can be 
baked in the individual pudding dishes, and 
served in dishes they are baked in. 

This way of serving puddings in the dishes 
they are baked in could also be made a source 
of profit for lunch counters and cheaper res- 
taurants. The brown German custard <=ups and 
deep pudding dishes are the best for this pur- 
pose. The puddings can be made more tender 
and permit the use of less eggs, and can bfc 
sold at 3, good profit. They can he made more 
fancy with meringue, or could be decorated 
with jelly, etc. 

For the steamed puddings and steamed rolls 
I have been using a long round mold, which 
opens longways in two halves. The form is 
lined with buttered paper when used, then 
filled with the mixture, some space left for the 
pudding to expand, the frame closed and 
steamed in this manner. This insures even 
round slives, and is preferable to the old way 
of boiling in a napkin. 



128 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



For the cold puddings the refrigerator is the 
best place to serve from. It should be placed 
in a handy position to serve from. 

EOLL WAEMEE. 

The problem of keeping the rolls in proper 
condition during the breakfast is the source of 
much trouble. Many of the appliances in use 
keep the rolls hot, but dry them to such an 
extent that they are unfit for use after they 
have been for some time in the heater. Other 
heaters have too much steam inside and the 
rolls become soggy. The best roll warmer I 
have used is a closet of galvanized sheet iron, 
with double sides and bottom, which can be set 
on the carving stand. The bottom of the heater 
has an opening to fit over the hole in the stand. 
It could be made also with steam circulating 
from pipes. The inside of the closet contains 



three perforated shelves, each large enough to 
hold one of the ordinary size roll pans. This 
leaves one shelf for muffins, and two for the 
different rolls. 

But there are many heaters like that. The 
main feature of this heater was a small vent, 
which let in just enough steam to keep sufficient 
moisture to keep the rolls in the proper condi- 
tion. The door of the heater should be auto- 
matic self-closing, to keep the heat inside, be- 
cause frequent opening causes any heater to 
cool off. 

A heater like this may also be used for keep- 
ing pudding warm, if it can be set in the right 
place. 

For a pudding heater a small gas heater, or, 
better, an electric heater, on which a pan con- 
taining water can be placed, is very handy for 
use. It can be connected with a rubber hose, 
taken off and set aside when not in use. 



END OP PAET SIX. 



Part 7. 



1085.-CANDY MAKING and MISCEL- 
LANEOUS RECIPES. 

Candy making is not practised to a great ex- 
tent in hotels. Caterers and bakers make only 
the plainer kinds, which can be made without 
expensive machinery, as used by the practical 
candy manufacturers. But even for the plainer 
kinds of candies some tools and appliances are 
required to make them successfully; without 
those appliances, it is cheaper to buy them from 
the dealer. 

The utensils required, consist of a good sized 
Marble Slab about three inches thick, a set of 
Candy Bars to enclose the boiled sugar, a Cop- 
per Candy Kettle, a Spatula and Scraper, some 
Wire Trays, Molds, a Candy Hook, a Caramel 
Cutter, a Drop Cutter, a Funnel Dropper, and 
a small Double Kettle for dipping cream 
candies. 

In the chapter on preserving fruits, I have 
given the sugar boiling degrees by the ther- 
mometer, and also the finger test (No. 67). 

For Syrup Testing, the saccharometer is 
used; and it is also used in sugar boiling for 
testing the density of the hot syrups for crys- 
tallizing till to the soft ball, or to about 
140° Fahr. (see Beaume syrup scale No. 703). 
For higher degrees in boiling, it cannot be used 
with reliance. 

FONDANT, or Cream as confectioners term 
it, is largely used in fancy candies. It is made 
for candies in the same manner as given for 
Fondant Icing (see No. 205). The cream is 
used for dipping candies, and also for centers. 
Two creams are generally made for this pur- 
pose. The cream for dipping is made of sugar 



with a very small quantity of glucose added; or 
cream of tartar is used with pure sugar. For 
the center creams, about four ounces of glucose 
is added to each pound of sugar and is boiled 
a few degrees higher. 

To use the dipping cream, it is warmed in a 
small double kettle, something like a rice boiler, 
and stirred gently till it is soft enough to cover 
fruit or nut pastes or center creams, which are 
dipped into it on a small spoon-shaped wire. 
The creams are colored and flavored at this 
point, and should be kept at an even temper- 
ature of about 95° Fahr., or about blood warm. 
Over heating causes the cream to set hard and 
dry. It is convenient to make this cream in 
large batches, as it will keep for a long time, 
and store it away; then it may be used as re- 
quired. 

In boiling the sugar, particular care should 
be observed to keep the sides of the kettle free 
from the small particles of sugar which are de- 
posited there by the steam from the boiling 
sugar. This may be done by washing the sides 
occasionally with a wet sponge, and by placing 
a cover on the kettle during boiling. 

1086.— STRIPED STICK CANDY. 

Six pounds of granulated sugar, one quart of 
water, half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Flavor of peppermint, lemon, or any other suit- 
able flavor. 

Put water and sugar on a brisk fire, stir 
till dissolved, and when it comes to a boil 
add the cream of tartar; boil to the hard 
crack, or about 300° Fahr. Pour onto 
the greased marble slab, between the 
bars, fold in the edges and add the 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BRBADS, CAKBS, 

flavor. When cool enough to handle, cut off 
about halt a pound, color it red, or divide it and 
color in two or three colors; leave the colored 
parts near the oven door, or any other warm place, 
so they stay soft. Take the other part and put it 
on the hook and pull till white; take off the hook 
and make into loaf. Take the colored parts, roll 
into strips and lay it on the white part in alter- 
nate colors Roll and pull in sticks and cut in 
suitable pieces. 

Many varieties of stick candy may be made by 
using different flavors and colors. The same 
candy may be cut in small drops with the shears. 



PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



129 



1087.— HARD CANDY DROPS. 

Five pounds of sugar, one and one-half pints of 
water, two pounds of glucose, flavor. 

Mix sugar water and glucose, stir till dissolved; 
boil to 290° in winter ( 300° in summer). Put on 
the greased slab, fold in the corners, and when 
cool run through the drop cutter; or roll in sticks 
and cut in small drops with the shears. 

The same mixture may be used for stick candy. 

1088.— LEMON DROPS. 
For Lemon Drops, add to No. 1087 one and 
one-half ounces of powdered tartaric acid after 
the sugar is boiled and on the slab. Flavor lemon 
and fold and work in the acid. When cool, run 
through the drop cutter. 

1089.— HOARHOUND DROPS. 
HOARHOUND STICKS. 

Boil half an ounce of hoarhound leaves in half 
a pint of water for fifteen minutes; strain and add 
to No. 1087 before boiling the sugar. Run the 
drops through the cutter same as for Lemon Drops 
No. 1088. 

For sticks, take off half a pound when on the 
slab, and pull till white. Stripe the clear part of 
the candy with it, and finish as directed for stick 
candy No. 1086. Cut in suitable lengths when cold. 

1090.— PLANTATION DROPS. 

Five pounds of brown sugar, two and one-half 
pounds of glucose, one and one-halt pints of water, 
haif a pound of butter, and one quart of molasses. 

Mix sugar, water and glucose, and stir till dis- 
solved. When boiling, add the molasses; boil to 
the soft ball, add the butter and let boil to 270' 
Fahr., or medium crack, and pour onto the slab. 
When cool, run through the rollers in large drops, 
and wrap in wax paper. 

1091.— MINT DROPS. 
Add to No. 1087 on the slab, half a teaspoonful 
of oil of mint and finish as usual. 

1092.— COUGH DROPS. 
Add to No. 1087, on the slab, one-quarter ounce 
of powdered charcoal, one ounce of powdered 



licorice root, ten drops of oil of mint, ten drops 
of anise oil, five drops of wintergreen, and five 
of sassafras. Work this well into the sugar and 
finish like other drops. 

1093.— STRAWBERRY DROPS. 
RASPBERRY DROPS. 
Add to No. 10S7, on the slab, half an ounce of 
powdered tartaric acid, color cochineal or carmine, 
and flavor and finish like other drops, using the 
strawberry roller. 



1094.— EVERTON TAFFY. 

Two pounds of brown sugar, six to eight ounces 
of fresh butter, the grated rind of one lemofa, half 
a teaspoonful of ground ginger. 

Put the butter in.the kettle on the fire, and when 
melted, gradually add the sugar. Stir the mixture 
during boiling till it reaches the crack degree, or 
260" Fahr. Pour on the slab between the bars, 
and when cool enough mark and cut in suitable 
squares. 

1095.— ALMOND TAFFY. 

Add to No. 1094 when it reaches the crack, 
about four ounces of blanched, shredded and 
dried almonds, and finish like Everton Taffy No. 
1094. 

1096.— BUTTER TAFFY. 

Take three pounds of ganulated sugar, one and 
one-half pints of water, six ounces of butter, 
lemon flavor. 

Boil sugar and water to the soft ball, or 240° 
Fahr. ; add the butter and boil to the crack. Pjur 
on the marble slab and finish like the other taffy. 

1097.— BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three pounds of granulated sugar, one quart of 
molasses, one pound of glucose, one pint of water, 
six ounces of butter. 

Mix sugar, water and glucose; boil to the crack, 
add butter, and boil a little longer, or to the hard 
crack 290' Fahr. Pour on buttered slab in a thin 
sheet and cut in tablets when cool; or fill into 
drop funnel and run out in drops on oiled pans, 

1098.— MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Two quarts N. O. molasses, three pounds of 
sugar, eight ounces of butter, half a pint of water, 
flavor of nutmeg. 

Mix sugar, water and molasses; boii to the ball 
and add the butter; let boil to the cracij, or 2701 
Fahr. Pour on the slab, let cool and cut. 

1099.— PULLED TAFFIES. 

Take four pounds of sugar, two pounds of 
glucose, eight ounces of butter, one and one-half 
pints of water. 

Boil to 240° Fahr., add the butter and let boil 
to the crack, or about 260' Fahr., and pour on 
the oiled slab. 



13° 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



This taffy may be flavored with chocolate while 
hot, adding grated chocolate and vanilla flavor; 
or flavor ginger, strawberry, rose, etc., etc., and 
put it on the hook to pull. Flavor and color may 
be added while pulling. Crushed nut meats may 
be added while warm. When the taffy is nice 
{ind light, it is placed in slightly buttered pans. 

iioo.— CHEWING TAFFY. 

Three pounds of sugar, one pint of milk, six 
ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. 

Stir milk and sugar on the fire till dissolved. 
When boiling add the cream o£ tartar; let boil to 
the crack; add butter and any suitable flavor. 
Stir the butter gently, and when well dissolved 
pour on the slab. Let cool and cut in squares; 
or put on the hook to pull. Draw out in bars and 
cut in pieces. 

I loi.— SPONGE TAFFY. 

Two pounds of brown sugar, one quart of 
molasses, one pint of water, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, one large teaspoonful of soda. 

Boil as directed in No. 1098 to 270° Fahr. 
Take oS the fire and add the soda. This will 
make the sugar foam and bubble. Pour on the 
slab and let cool; then cut in squares or break in 
pieces. 

1 102.— POPCORN SPONGE TAFFY 

Three pounds of brown or granulated sugar, 
one pound of glucose, one pint of water, one and 
one-half pints of molasses, one pound of sifted 
popcorn. 

Boil to the hard crack, or 295' Fahr. Take off 
the fire and add one teaspoonful of soda, and stir 
in the popcorn. Put on the slab between the bars, 
level and let cool. Before it hardens cut in bars 
or squares. 

1103.— COCOANUT SPONGE TAFFY. 
PEANUT TAFFY. 

Three pounds of sugar, one pound of glucose, 
one pinl of water, one pound of grated cocoanut, 
one pint of molasses. 

Boil to the soft crack, or 250' Fahr; add the 
cocoanut, stir, and let boil to the hard crack, 295° 
Fahr. ; take off the fire, stir in a small teaspoonful 
of soda ant" pour on the slab. Let cool and break 
in pieces. 

For PEANUT TAFFY, add one pound of 
cleaned peanuts in place of cocoanut. 
1 104.— FUDGE. 

Five pounds of sugar, one quart of fresh milk. 

Put together on the fire and stir till dissolved. 
Cover the kettle during boiling and let boil to the 
soft ball degree, or 242' Fahr. Sprinkle the slab 
with water, put on the bars and pour on the 
sugar. Let cool down, till you can handle it and 



work with the scraper like Cream Fondant. 
Flavor and color it; then let rest for five minutes 
and cover with cloth; then work smooth. 

Dust the table with fine powdered sugar, roll 
out the cream flat to about half an inch thick (or 
less ). Mark out in two-inch squares and put in 
pans. 

After this recipe all kinds can be made : adding 
nut meats or chocolate, and changing flavors and 
colors. 

1105.— NUT CANDY. 

FIVE KINDS OF NUT CANDY. 

Take two pounds of sugar, one pound of 
glucose, half a pint of water, about two pounds 
of nut meat. 

Boil to 280° Fahr., or good crack; stir in the 
nuts with a spatula which has been soaked in 
water; let boil a moment longer and put on the 
slab. Spread out well on the greased marble, roll 
out with a rolling pin and cut in squares or bars. 

In this manner all the different nuts may be 
used, as peanuts, cocoanuts, walnuts, hickory and 
Brazil nuts. 

Peanuts should be roasted and cleaned. The 
larger nuts may be broken; and all the nuts should 
be heated and added hot. In this state they will 
mix better with the boiling sugar. 

1 106.— JAPANESE COCOANUT CANDY. 

Three pounds of glucose, and one pound of 
powdered sugar. 

Mix together and stir till dissolved. Boil to 
250° Fahr., or hard ball; add three pounds of 
shredded cocoanut, mix well and take off the fire. 
Put on the slab between the bars. Whfen cool, 
sift powdered sugar over and cut in squares or bars. 

1107.— COCOANUT CREAM BALLS. 

Three pounds of sugar, one pound of glucose, 
one pint of water, the meat of one large fresh 
grated cocoanut, or twenty ounces of desiccated 
cocoanut. 

Fresh cocoanut is preferred for this candy. 
The desiccated cocoanut should be moistened in 
steam, or stirred in a kettle on the fire with a 
little water, till the water is evaporated and has 
softened the nut meat. 

Boil to the soft ball degree; take the kettle off 
the fire, and rub the sugar on the sides of the 
vessel with the spatula till it whitens and granu- 
lates; stir this into the rest of the sugar till it is 
all white and milky; then add the cocoanut; mix 
and cover and let cool. Now work this up with 
the spatula into smooth cream. From this mix" 
ture form balls. Have ready prepared some 
finely-chopped and browned cocoanut mixed with 
granulated sugar; or prepare half a panful of 
colored sugar, of a bright red, (see Colored Sugar 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



131 



IH No. 73) . Throw the balls into it, and shake 
them well about. Let the covered balls dry on 
trays before using. 

1 108.— POPCORN BALLS. 

Boil two pounds of sugar to the soft ball, or 
240° Fahr; add half a teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Have ready a quantity of popped com, and stir it 
in the sugar to form a firm mixture. Take o£E the 
fire, and with your hands slightly buttered form 
into balls and wrap in wax paper. 

Confectioners use a machine for this purpose, 
to make a perfect rounded ball, and the outside of 
the corn is tinted with pink carmine. 

1109.— VANILLA CREAM CANDY. 

Five pounds of sugar, one quart of water, half 
a teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Stir sugar and water till dissolved. When boil- 
ing, add the cream of tartar and boil to the low 
crack, or about 260° Fahr. Pour on buttered 
slab, add flavor and fold in the comers; let cool 
a little, and pull till white. Place on the table 
dusted with XXXX sugar; roU in strips or bars 
and let remain on the pans till it granulates; then 
cut in pieces. 

Any flavor or color may be used for variety. 



mo.— VANILLA CARAMELS. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of 
glucose, two ounces of parafiin wax, one pint of 
cream or milk. 

Set on the fire and stir constantly till it reaches 
the hard ball degree, or near the soft crack, about 
254° Fahr. Add the parafiBu when it boils. Add' pans to dry. 
flavor when nearly done. Pour on the buttered 
slab between the bars, and when cold, cut in 
squares and wrap in wax paper. 

Other flavor and color may be used for variety. 



Put sugar, glucose and one pint of milk on the 
fire and stir till dissolved. When boiling, add the 
butter and three more pints of milk. Stir con- 
stantly till the milk has evaporated and add the 
cream gradually, stirring all the time. Boil to 
250' Fahr., and add the grated chocolate; mix 
well and add the heated nut meat. Pour on th» 
greased slab, let cool and cut in caramels. 

1113.— CREAM CARAMELS. 
ROSE CARAMELS. 
STRAWBERRY CARAMELS. 
MAPLE CARAMELS. 
NUT CARAMELS. 
Two pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of 
glucose, three pints of milk, one quart of cream, 
one ounce of paraffin. 

Mix sugar and glucose with one pint of milk; 
stir till dissolved; add the other two pints of 
milk gradually as it boils down, and boil to 
the soft ball, stirring constantly. Add the 
cream, and boil to the small crack, or 254°; add 
the paraffin, let mix well and pour on the slab. 
(Add flavor before taking off the fire. ) Let get 
cold and cut in cubes. 

For ROSE and STRAWBERRY gARAMELS 
add carmine color and flavor. 

For MAPLE CARAMELS use half maple 
sugar. 

For NUT CARAMELS add one pound of 
crushed nuts. 

These caramels may be iced, or dipped in 
fondant or chocolate, and set on waxed paper or 



1114.- 



nil.— CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Six pounds of sugar, one pound of glucose, 
eight ounces of cocoa, three pints of milk or 
cream, vanilla flavor. 

Mix all the ingredients'together, stirring con- 
stantly; add the vanilla flavor when it is near the 
crack degree, and put on the oiled slab between 
the bars about half an' inch thick. Let rest and 
get cold, and cut with knife or caramel cutter in 
squares. Wrap in wax paper. 

For unwrapped caramels add for each pound of 
sugar one ounce of paraffin when the sugar begins 
to boil. The paraffin holds the squares in shape 
and adds to the chewing quality of the caramels. 

1112.— CHOCOLATE NUT CARAMELS. 
Five pounds of sugar, four pounds of glucose, 
two quarts of milk, two quarts of cream, eight 
ounces of butter, one pound of bitter chocolate, 
two pounds of broken nut me»ts. 



OPERA CARAMELS. 
OPERA CREAMS. 

Two pounds of sugar, one pint of water, three 
ounces of butter, vanilla extract. 

Boil sugar and water to the ball degree, add 
butter and flavor; take off the fire and set for a 
moment in a pan of cold water to prevent further 
heating. Let stand and cool down a little; then, 
with the spatula, rub it on the sides to granulate. 
Stir this in the other part of the sugar, and work 
well till white and creamy. A little XXXX sugar 
may be dusted in the syrup to make it grain in a 
short time. Dust the slab with powdered sugar, 
put on the cream and roll out to about half an 
inch thick. Mark and cut in squares, and wrap 
in wax paper. 

1115.— HONEY NOUGAT. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, two pounds 
of honey, one pound of glucose, six whites of 
eggs, one and one-half pound of blanched and 
split almonds or other nut meats. 

Boil one pound of sugar and one pound of the 
honey to the ball degree, or 254° Fahr. In 



132 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, 



another kettle boil the remaining sugar, honey and 
glucose with half a pint of water, to the crack 
degree. Beat the whites of eggs firm, and after 
the first batch has cooled down to some extent, 
pour it into the whites, same as for making a hot 
meringue. When this is done, mix the second 
batch (which should be just boiled to crack by 
this time) , with the first batch, pouring it gradu- 
ally and stirring all ths time. Then add the nut 
meat and flavor of orange flower or vanilla. Fill 
the mixture in a high square pan lined with wax 
paper, and let get cold before cutting. 

In place of nut meats, candied peel, glace fruits, 
like cherries, apricots, angelica, etc., may be 
added for variety. 

1116.— ALMOND NOUGAT FOR SMALL 

AND LARGE BASKETS, AND OTHER 
ORNAMENTAL WORK. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, three pounds 
of blanched and shredded almonds, the juice of 
two lemons. 

Melt sugar and lemon juice on a slow fire, stir- 
ring constantly till the sugar is all melted. When 
it begins to boil on the sides and assumes a 
golden color, add the heated almonds, mix weU 
and take off the fire. Put on oiled slab and roll 
into a thin sheet. 

While the nougat is soft it is pressed in the 
forms, or cut and bent in shape after the designs. 

The mixture can be kept warm and pliable on 
a heated pan in the oven door, and can be pressed 
in any form and shape in this state. This work 
requires quickness, and the nougat can be pressed 
in the forms with hard lemon or orange. After 
it has hardened it can be easily taken from the 
oiled molds. 

1 1 17.— NOUGATINAS. 

Two pounds of blanched, finely-chopped and 
dried almonds, two and one-half pounds of fine 
powdered sugar, the juice of one lemon. 

Melt the sugar and lemon juice, and finish like 
No. 1116. Roll out on the slab, and cut into 
squares or diamonds, like caramels. Dip in 
melted chocolate, like creams, and set in pans on 
wax paper to dry and harden. 

1118.— BURNED ALMONDS. 
PRALINES. 
Take three pounds of granulated sugar and one 
and one-half pints of water. Let come to a boil, 
and throw into it two pounds of shelled sweet 
almonds. When the almonds begin to crackle in 
the syrup, take the pan ofi the fire and stir the 
almonds with a spatula till the sugar grains and 
gets sandy. Put the dry sugar and almonds in a 
coarse sieve and sift off the sugar, and break the 
almonds apart, if they form in lumps. Return 



PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

the sugar to the pan, add about one pint of water 
and a few drops of carmine for color. Let boil 
to the low crack, or 254° Fahr., and put in the 
almonds: stir again till grained. Repeat this 
once or twice more, and they are then ready. 

Peanuts, walnuts and filberts are made into 
Pralines like the almonds. 

Orange and lemon peel; also rose leaves, 
violets and orange flowers are made into Pralines 
in the same manner. 

1119.— CREAM ALMONDS. 
CREAM PEANUTS. 

Four pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds 
of blanched, dried and roasted almonds. 

Put the sugar to boil with one quart of water; 
boil to the soft ball degree, flavor with orange 
flower extract, and color pink. Have the almonds 
hot in a round vessel. Take the sugar off the fire 
and pour in a thin stream on the almonds, stir- 
ring constantly; use all the sugar till the almonds 
are well coated. 

QREAM PEANUTS may be made in the 
same manner. 

1 120.— LOZENGES. 

Lozenges are made from the gum paste No. 88. 
Flavor and color is added with the sugar, also the 
other ingredients in form of extracts or powders. 
The paste is rolled out into a thin sheet and 
formed with small cutters in different shapes. 
All lozenges are made in the same manner. 

Roll the paste out on the slab to about one- 
quarter inoh thick. Dust the slab with starch 
powder. Dust the top with XXXX powdered 
sugar, and rub it smooth and glossy with the 
hand. Cut out the lozenges and put to dry in the 
hot closet. 

1121.— CREAM DROPS. 

Take from the prepared fondant No. 205. Dis- 
solve the amount required in a small pan on a 
slow fire, or in hot water. Color and flavor with 
mint, wintergreen, musk, rose, etc., etc. Fill the 
melted fondant into a drop funnel or paper 
cornet, and drop out on waxed paper in small 
drops the size of a twenty-five cent piece. Let 
become firm, and dry and remove from the paper. 

These lozenges are used by caterers to sweeten 
and flavor the water in the finger bowls, because 
they readily dissolve in the water — sweetening 
and flavoring at the same time. 

1 122.— CASTING CANDIES IN STARCH 
PRINTS. 

Confectioners cast Bon-Bons, Conserve Drops, 
and other candies in starch impressions, where 
they are left to dry till they can be taken from it 
and can be dipped in cream, or crystallized, as 
the case may be. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, 



Fruit jellies and jams are mixed with gelatin or 
glucose, reduced to more firmness; and also cast 
in the starch prints, left there to dry, and then are 
dipped in sugar, or crystallized. 

Very dry powdered starch is put in flat boxes, 
smoothened, and the imprints are made. A drop- 
funnel or a lip pan is used for filling, and starch 
powder is sifted over when the casting is done. 
The boxes are placed in dry closets till the candies 
are dried sufficiently. The starch is brushed off, 
and they are ready for use. 

1 123. —SUGAR CASTING IN MOLDS. 

Fruits, flowers and figures may be cast in molds 
of metal or plaster o£ paris. The molds are oiled 
while cold, and the oiling is repeated after each 
cast. For fruits, artificial stalks may be added, 
and when the casts are removed from the molds, 
they may be painted to imitate Nature. 

Take six pounds of sugar, three pints of water 
and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Stir on 
the fire till dissolved. Wash down the sides to 
avoid graining, and boil on a good fire to the hard 
crack, or 300° Fahr. Put the sugar in the lip pan 
or funnel and run into the molds. 

If the casting is desired hollow, allow the out- 
side crust to form, then dip the molds to let the 
sugar run out from the centre. 

1124.— CRYSTALLIZING CANDIES AND 
FRUITS. 

The crystallization of candy, and also of candied 
fruits, is done by placing bon-bons, jelly drops, 
or fruits in clarified syrup which has been boiled 
to the blow or feather degree of about 235° Fahr. 
(Or, if the syrup scale is used, the boiling syrup 
should register about 33-34 degrees Beaum^.) In 
this state the sugar crystallizes readily, dnd forms 
crystals on the sides of the pan and on anything 
which is suspended in it. 

The crystallizing pans or boxes are made in 
form of trays about ten by twelve inches square 
and three inches deep. The bon-bons are placed 
in the box in rows and are covered with the syrup. 
The pans are covered and set away to crystal- 
lize for ten to twelve hours. The pans are then 
inclined, and the syrup is drained from the pan. 
The bon-bons remain till dry, and are packed in 
wax paper. 

To prepare the syrup for this purpose, use loaf 
sugar. Dissolve eight pounds in three quarts of 
cold water, stir till dissolved, and put on the fire. 
Let boil to the blow degree, 240' Fahr. (Or test 
with the syrup scale. ) When the boiling syrup 
reaches 33 or 34 degrees Beaum^ take it off the 
hre, set the kettle in cold water, cover with a 
damp cloth and let stand till lukewarm. Do not 
disturb the syrup in any way, as it might cause it 



PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 1 33 

lumps. When cooled, use as directed 



to form 
above. 

Fruits to be crystallized must first go through 
the process of candying, as described in the open- 
ing chapter of fruit jellies and preserves (see 
Candied Fruits and Fruits Glaces.) The fruits 
should be perfectly dry when put in the crystal- 
lizing syrup. The small fruits are placed in the 
trays covered with a wire screen to prevent rising 
in the syrup, and the syrup is poured gently over 
the fruit and set to form the crystals. When you 
test the fruit, and judge the crystals to be of the 
proper size, the syrup is drained like for bon-bons, 
by inclining the trays, and the fruit is left too dry 
till no more moisture is left. The fruit is then 
packed in boxes lined with wax paper. 

1 125.— GUM DROPS. 

ENGLISH GUM DROPS. 

Take four pounds of sugar, two and one-half 
pounds of glucose, one pint of water, and ten 
ounces of gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in cold water. Set sugar, 
glucose and one pint of water to boil, and boil to 
the ball degree, or 244° Fahr. Take off the fire, 
add flavor and color and the soaked gelatin strained 
from the water. Mix well and let stand for a few 
minutes. Take off the scum which arises. Fill 
in the funnel dropper and run into starch prints. 
Let dry, and take from the starch. Moisten 
lightly with gum water, or hold in a sieve over 
steam for a moment, and roll in granulated sugar. 
The drops may now be used, or further crystal- 
lized for better goods. 

1126.— AMERICAN GUM DROPS. 

Take two pounds of sugar, two pounds of glu- 
cose, a pinch of cream of tartar, and eight ounces 
of lump starch. 

Dissolve the starch in three quarts of water. 
Let the glucose and sugar come to a boil, add the 
cream of tartar, and strain the water and starch 
on the boiling sugar. ( This process is best done 
in a jacket steam boiler, same as used in the 
pastry room. ) Boil down to a thick syrup, or 
drop a little in powdered starch; it should form a 
soft elastic ball. Color and flavor, and fill into 
starch prints. Finish as directed in No. 1125. 

1127.— LIQUOR DROPS. 

Five pounds of cut loaf sugar, three pints of 
water, a pinch of cream of tartar, one gill of 
maraschino or kirschwasser. 

Let sugar and water come to a boil, add the 
cream of tartar and let boil to the soft ball, or 
240° Fahr. Remove from the fire and add the 
liquor; let boil up once more, and let cool for a 
couple of minutes. Take a lip pan or funnel and 
drop in starch prints. Let stand for about twelve 



134 PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

hours in the dry closet. When dry enough to spotted and rusty. This coating ready made can 

handle, brush off the starch and crystallize as ex- be boaght of the supply houses, and at low prices, 

plained in No. 1125. ^^^ cheaper grades are made mostly of sugar, 

By changing flavor and colors, a variety of drops color and cocoa butter, and contain very UtUe 

can be made. P""^^ chocolate. 

The creams may be dipped in the coating with 

1128.— CREAM DROPS. jj,g j^^j^^ ^^^^ confectioners generaUy dip the best 

Take prepared Cream Fondant; flavor with any creams on a warmed marble slab. A little of the 

suitable extract. While melting the fondant in coating is placed on the slab; when this cools a 

the' pot, add color if required; heat it well, but little, it is worked smooth like a paste; another 

do not let boil. Take lip pan or funnel and drop spoonful is put on top of the first part, and a 

in starch prints. Let dry, and finish as directed small bay is made in the centre with the fingers, 

ji No. 1 123. just large enough to receive one of the fondant 

In place of crystallizing these drops, they may balls. This ball is deftly twisted around in the 

be dipped in cream fondant or chocolate, and set coating with two fingers till it is covered with the 

on wax paper to dry. chocolate. This work has to be done with deft- 

1 129. —CRYSTALLIZED FRUIT DIAMONDS. ''^^^ ^""^ dispatch, and girls are employed by con- 

„ ii_ j: -1 1 • iL r 11 • fectionefs to do this work, which requires small 

Prepare the fruit paste in the following manner: . , , ^ ,,„ 

_,,, ,. , ... , ^, nimble fingers. When the centers are coated. 

Take good cooking apples; peel, shce and throw , ? , , . ,j 

,j ^ J . ', . _ , ^ they are placed on wax paper and set m a cold 

in cold water during this process. For each ten ' , , 

,r , jji_i. J i_ij: place to harden, 

pounds 01 apples add about one and one-halt '^ 

pints of water; set on the fire and stir tiU soft; 1131.— CHOCOLATE CREAM FONDANT. 

pass through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and take In place of coating the white cream with choco- 

the same weight of sugar. Boil the sugar to the late, the centre may be made of chocolate cream 

hard ball degree and mix in the fruit pulp; boil a and a white coating used; a vanilla flavored dip- 

a little more and color the pulp to any shade de- ping cream for the coating. 

sired. Pour this paste in trays one-eighth of an The cream for the centres is made as follows: 

inch thick, and set in the drying closet to get firm. Take three pounds of granulated sugar, eight 

Cut in diamonds or cuK s and crystallize like other ounces of glucose, one and one-half pints of water, 

drops. six ounces of bitter chocolate; flavor vanilla. 

Prepare all other fruit pulps in the same man- Boil the ingredients same way as for Fondant 

ner. No. 205, and work it on the slab in the same man- 

The fruit pulps, after they are prepared and cut ner. tiU it forms a thick creamy mixture. Put 

in cubes, may be dipped in cream like other t^^is away in a jar, and use like the other creams, 
cream candies. 1132.— ALMOND OR NUT' CREAMS. 

1130.— CREAM CHOCOLATES. Take pne pound of sugar, two pounds of glu- 

For the center of the Chocolate Creams pre- '=°=^' °°^ P""""^ °^ blanched, chopped and well- 
pare the fondant as directed in No. 205. The ^"'^ almonds, or nuts; one pint of water, and 
cream may be flavored vanilla and formed by °°^ """'^^ °^ paraffin. 

hand into little balls or steeples, using a little ^^1' ^"S^"^' ^^'^'^ ^""^ gl"<=°^«' ^""^ ^^^ ^^^ 

XXXX powdered 5Ugar to roll, and let them dry; P^^^^" ^^^"^ " ''^^"^^^ *« ^°'^- ^^ ^°'^ to a 

or the fondant may be melted and cast in starch ™^<^''^'" ^^^^ ^""^ ^^'^ ^^^ ^^'"^ ^^''°'^- ^^^^ °^ 

prints as directed in No. 1122. ^^^ ^^^' ^^ ^''"^ '° "^^ almonds. Mix well and 

For covering or coating, to make the best grades P"' °° *^ ^'^^ '^"^'^'^ ^'"^ powdered sugar; roU 

of creams, take one pound of cocoa paste, (bitter °"' ^t.°"' 1^^" ^° ''"'^ ^^'''^- ^°^ !«' '=°°1- Cut 

chocolate), cut in small pieces and place in the '° ^l"^"^^^ °' diamonds and dip in vanilla flavor 

double kettle; or put it in a granite pot; set this '-'^^^™- 

pot into another vessel containing hot water; stir Pistachios, filberts and other nuts may be used 

the chocolate tiU dissolved, add four to eight '° ^^^ ^^"^ manner. 

ounces of XXXX powdered sugar and beat well 1133.— MARCHPANE CREAM CENTERS, 
together; then add two or three ounces of cocoa Prepare the paste No. 90, without the gum 

butter to make it of the proper consistency; then tragacanth. Flavor with Maraschino or Noyeau 

it is ready for dipping. Great care should be liquor, and form in ball by hand, using XXXX 

taken not to over heat the chocolate during the powdered sugar. Dip in pink-colored fondant 

dipping process: it should only be blood warm, flavored with rose or orange flower extract. 
not hot. Over-heating causes the coating to look Another way of making Nut Creams for centers, 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, 

is to pound any suitable nut meat to a paste and 
mix with powdered sugar or cream fondant into a 
pliable paste. Roll in sugar and let dry a little 
before dipping. 

1 1 34. —NEAPOLITAN CREAM SQUARES. 

Take five pounds of granulated sugar, one quart 
of water, and about a quarter teaspoon of cream 
of tartar. 

Let sugar and water come to a boil, add the 
cream of tartar and let boil to about 235°, or near 
the soft ball degree. Pour on the slab sprinkled 
with water; let rest for a few minutes and begin 
to work with the spatula, like fondant. 

When it sets, divide it in three parts; color one 
part light green, flavor pistachio; one part pink, 
flavor rose or laspberry; leave one part white, 
flavor lemon or vanilla. Work each part smooth 
with the hands; form each into a flat square and 
place on the top of each other. Roll out on the 
table dusted with XXXX powdered sugar about 
three-quarters of an inch thick. Place on pans 
lined with wax paper, and let stand to harden; 
then cut in squares. 

1135.— TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM SQUARES. 

Prepare the cream like for No. 11 34. Take 
six ounces of candied cherries, four ounces of 
angelica, and six ounces of apricots; cut in dice 
and mix in the cream when it sets. Roll out and 
place in lined pans; let get firm and cut in squares. 

Nut meats may be used in the same manner, 
and the cr'^am may be flavored pink, caramel or 
chocolate; or made in several colors. 

'I 



PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



13s 



1136.— ESMERALDA CREAM, OR TURKIi 
DELIGHT. 

Take six pounds of sugar, four pounds of glu- 
cose, two and one-half pints of water, and boil to 
the crack, or about 265° Fahr. Take off the 
fire and add six whites of eggs beaten like for 
meringue; flavor with orjinge flower extract and 
mix well; then add about one and one-half 
pounds of nut meats (walnuts, pecans or almond), 
or add some French fruits glaces, like for No. 1 135. 
Stir the batch in the basin till it gets thick and 
white. Line a high square pan with wax paper 
and fill in the cream. 

This cream when cold is cut in slices, and may 
be made in different colors and flavors. 



1137- 



-ORNAMENTAL SUGAR WORK. 
SUGAR SPINNING. 



The sugar is run on the oiled molds, either on 
the inside or outside, in form of a lattice, and 
when the sugar is almost cold, it is taken off the 
form. 

For scrolls, basket handles, etc., the design is 
drawn on the marble slab; or a paper design is 
laid under a pane of oiied glass, which is the bet- 
ter wpy, as it saves frequent drawing of the dif- 
ferent designs. 

A bowl-shaped spoon with a long spout is used 
for large pieces; for the smaller goods a plain 
tablespoon can be used. The larger spoon should 
be filled with another ladle. 

Smaller molds may be covered by dipping the 
tablespoon in the prepared sugar, holding the 
mold in one hand, and run the sugar over or in- 
side the mold with the other hand. 

The flow of the sugar is regulated by the rais- 
ing or lowering of the spoon, and the thickness of 
the threads depends on the state of the sugar. 

For large piece work, where a clear or colored 
sugar is required, a five- or ten-pound batch of 
sugar is boiled to the hard crack, with a little 
lemon juice added. The sugar is poured on the 
oiled slab, and when cooled is cut in large squares. 
This prevents thefrequent boiling of small batches, 
as a large batch can not be used and kept in a 
liquid state for a long time without graining. 

When ready to use, some of the squares of 
sugar are melted in a small pan on a moderate fire 
and used. 

The preparation of large and elaborate fancy 
pieces takes much time, and can only be executed 
by the skillful workman; but the smaller pieces 
may be easily prepared. Complicated pieces are 
made in sections, which are put together when 
perfectly cold, and fastened with sugar boiled to 
the caramel degree. The pieces may be further 
decorated with royal icing and candied fruits. 

Fruits like grapes, cherries, or almonds and nuts, 
slices of oranges, etc. , are dipped in caramel and 
used to decorate or fill the baskets. 

Flowers are also made from boiled sugar, or 
from royal icing, or gum paste, and used for 
decoration, 

1138.— SPUN SUGAR. 
Take three pounds of cut loaf sugar, add one 
pint of water, put on the fire to boil. Wash down 
the sides to prevent the forming of crystals, and 
let boil to the crack, or 260" Fahr. Add the 
juice of half a lemon, or a pinch of cream of 



Spun sugar and web sugar is used by the pastry tartar, and let boil to the hard crack, or 300° to 

cook and confectioner for decorative purposes. 315° Fahr. Before it reaches this degree, add 

Scroll omamentj, vases and baskets, also large the color, if color is required. Now turn the 

fancy pieces are made with this sugar. Molds sugar on the slab, and when cool cut in pieces; or 

are used for vases and baskets, etc. set the pan in cold water for a moment, to pre- 



136 

vent the turning of the sugar into caramel; let cool 

a little, and use with the spoon as directed above. 

1 139.— WEBB SUGAR. 

For a silver webb, use the same sugar as above 
without any coloring. For a gold web, boil the 
sugar a little higher, till it turns yellow. A little 
saffron color may be added. 

As soon as the sugar reaches the proper degree, 
take the pan o& and set it in cold water for a 
minute, and let the sugar cool a little. 

Take a bunch of straight wires tied together, or 
use an egg beater with the ends cut off straight. 
Take a stick and hold it up high in your left hand, 
dip the points of the wire in the sugar with the 
right hand and throw it over the stick, where it 
will hang from it in fine threads. When sufficient 
threads have accumulated, place them on the table 
and cut in suitable lengths. This sugar is used 
to represent the hair of helmets, the water of a 
fountain, etc. 

An easier way to prepare the web sugar for 
nests (for which purpose web sugar is mostly used) 
is to place five or six long sticks (clean broom or 
peel handles will do) crosswise between two tables. 
Place on the floor, under the sticks, some sheets 
of paper, to take up any drops of the sugar fall- 
ing on the floor. 

When the sugar is ready, and has cooled some, 
dip the points of the wire in the sugar, and pass 
the wire with a quick forward and backward mo- 
tion over the sticks, so the sugar forms in long 
threads on the sticks. 

Set the sugar in a pan with hot water, or keep 
near the fire, if it should cool too much during 
this process. When a sufficient part of the web 
is formed, put it on the table and cut it in suit- 
able lengths to form the nests. 

These finely-spun threads of sugar are very 
much afiected by a damp atmosphere, and readily 
collapse, losing much of their beauty. For this 
reason they are best made only a short time be- 
fore using, and should be kept in a dry place, or 
placed in tin boxes till wanted for use. 

1140.— NOUGAT SUGAR WORK. 

From the nougat mixture No. 11 16, other large 
decorations are made in form of castles, temples, 
vases or baskets. The nougat is cut after the de- 
signs, or pressed in metal forms, which are gener- 
ally made in two parts; each half is lined with the 
nougat, both sides are pressed together and left 
in the mold till cold. 

Baskets made from nougat are fastened to 
another plate or socle, made also from nougat, or 
from the gum paste or the croquant pastes No. 
88 and No 8g. The handle is made from spun 
sugar in two pieces, which are fastened together 
and on the basket with caramel sugar. Or a 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

plainer handle may be made by boiling sugar to 
the hard crack and, when cooled on the slab, pull 
and twist, or braid into handle, and bend it over 
a half round tin. When cold, fasten it to the 
form by heating the ends on the fire, or with 
caramel. 

Other pieces of this kind may be made from 
clear or colored sugar, boiled to the hard crack, 
and poured on the marble slab in a thin sheet. 
When cool enough to handle, the sugar is pressed 
in the molds like the nougat, and finished in the 
same manner. Blanched almonds are split and 
colored over the fire in prepared syrup, and 
pressed in the soft sugar in the molds to form 
borders or other designs. 

Large baskets and vases of this kind made from 
brown nougat, clear or colored sugar, may be 
filled with frozen creams, molded in the shape of 
flowers or fruits (fruits made from marcipan paste, 
or flowers made of sugar); and also with fresh or 
candied fruits, dipped in caramel. 

ii4r.— CHANTILLY BASKETS. 

These baskets are made of macaroons, or 
meringues, and also of fruits dipped in sugar 
boiled to the hard crack. A mold is used, slightly 
oiled, and the edge of the macaroons is dipped in 
the boiled sugar, and they are fastened together 
on the inside or outside of the mold. When the 
sugar is cold, the form is taken off the mold and 
fastened to a. bottom or socle made from gum 
paste or croquant paste, iced and ornamented 
with royal icing. 

The basket may also be fastened on a shallow 
di.'h of china with caramel sugar. 

The inside may be lined with Charlotte russe 
crust No. 97 or No. 98, or with ladyfingers, and 
filled with sweetened whipped cream. The handle 
may be made from spun sugar or royal icing. 

The finishing touches may be put on with the 
cornet to make a pleasing effect. 

1142.— FRUITS IN CARAMEL. 

All kinds of fresh or candied fruit, also almonds 
and nuts, may be dipped in sugar boiled to the 
hard crack or to the caramel degree. 

Cherries, strawberries, grapes, etc., should be 
freed from the stalks; the oranges peeled, all the 
white pith removed, and divided in natural divis- 
ions; the fruit should be perfectly dry. Nuts or 
almonds may be stuck on a wire and dipped in 
the sugar. For the other fruits a wire bent in 
spoon shape is used. The fruit, after it is dip- 
ped, is placed on the slab or on wire grates to 
drain and harden. When cold, it may be used to 
build baskets or pyramids, fastening the pieces 
together; or it may be served in single pieces, or 
filled in nougat baskets or cornucopias. 



MUL KICHABDS'BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 137 

1143. — FLOWERS AND LEAVES FROM royal icing. The piping is done on a white or 
BOILED SUGAR. pink gauze or netting, and this kind of ornament- 
Prepare the sugar as for spun sugar ( see No. ing is termed bobbin-net work. Scrolls, handles, 
1 135). Cut in tablets and melt a small portion cottages and castles, also baskets, are made in this 
on a slow fire. Use dry paste color, and color work, which is all done with the comet. The 
each part when the sugar is melted on the oiled piping is geneially done in white, and the finish- 
slab. This work must be done near the fire or ing touches are put on with pink icing inter- 
over a gas-stove to keep the sugar in a pliable spersed with small gold and silver dragees. 
condition. The design may be drawn on the marble, or if 

Take a small part of the sugar and form in on paper, laid under glass. The netting is placed 

petals of flowers, cutting the shape with the scis- over the design, and the piping is put on the net- 

sors, and forming it with the fingers. After the ting; when dry, it is turned over and piped on the 

different sizes of petals are made they are formed other side. 

and fastened around a center, to represent roses, When dry, the netting is cut close to the out- 
tulips, calla lilies, and other smaller flowers and line with the scissors. For some of the scrolls, 
buds. The petals may be made from yellow handles, etc., the netting is cut in shape of the 
colored and pulled sugar, or from gum paste, design before putting on the piping, to make it 
The petals are fastened by heating the parts to be invisible, 
fastened on the fire. The piping on both sides is required for scrolls, 

For the leaves a part of the sugar is colored handles, and such work where both sides are seen; 

green, and the stems may be imitated with choco- other work, like baskets and outside pieces, roofs, 

late color. ' etc. , require no duplicating. The sides of bouses. 

To imitate Nature the flowers may be touched etc., are piped in lattice fashion with a strong 

up and painted with a small camel's hair brush, edge, which gives more support to the fine piping. 

Roses and tulips without a center may be made Small scrolls may be placed together upright in 

and filled with ices or creams; or large leaves of the center of an ornamental cake, four or six of 

a delicate green may be formed in cup shapes to them, and fastened together with icing; or larger 

serve ices and creams. scrolls in the shape of S and C scrolls, supported 

If it is desired to give the flowers a crystalline with rings, may be placed upright together around 

appearance, a little strong syrup is diluted with a center support, which is fastened into the stand, 

proof spirits, and the flowers are brushed with it. in the form of a pyramid. The top may be 

The spirit evaporates and small crystals are finished with a few candy flowers and leaves, or 

formed, which gives the flower the appearance other artificial flowers, in form of a small bouquet, 

of being covered with dew. A little ingenuity and practice will make it 

Flowers may also be made of the gum paste possible to execute a large variety of these orna- 

No. 88 and of the almond oaste No. 90, colored ments. 

and molded by hand into leaves, and put together 1146.— MERINGUE DECORATIONS, 

like flowers made of candy. p^.^^ ^^^ p^jg j^o g^ beehives, baskets and 

1144. — FLOWERS OF ROYAL ICING. many scroll ornaments may be made. The rings 

The flowers of royal icing are made with the or scrolls may be drawn on greased and flour- 
comet and special small brass tubes. The icing dusted pans and the paste put on with the bag 
is put in the cornet with the special leaf tubes, and a plain tube of a large size. The paste is 
used for the different flowers. A long pin with baked in a slack oven of about 200° Fahr. to a 
large flat head, which is made for this purpose, is fawn color, and when dry, put together with royal 
taken in the left hand, the cornet in the right i^ing. xhe finishing is done with the cornet and 
hand; the center of the rose is formed with a star ^gyal icing in different colors, 
tube on the pin's head; the leaves are formed The French Macaroon Paste No. 364 may be 
with the leaf tube. used in the same manner. It should be rather 

The trick of making the roses lies in the twist- firm for this purpose, and rings, or S and C scrolls, 

ing of the nail or pin. The pin is stuck into a should be baked to a nice color. For this work 

soft board and the flowers are left to dry; when the bag and a large star tube are mostly used, 

dry, they are taken from the nail. The different x^e baked pieces are put together, fastened 

tubes and the nails may be bought at any of the around a center support with caramel sugar, and 

confectioners' supply stores. further decorated with royal icing. Candied 

jj . „ ^NET AND SCROLL WORK WITH cherries and angelica leaves dipped in caramel 

ROYAL ICING. are also used for decorating, and the baked scrolls 

Very nice table decorations may be made from while hot are bmshed with diluted gum arable to 



138 

give a glossy appearance. These pieces are not 
very difficult to make; and some supply firms sell 
scroll and ring molds in which the paste may be 
baked or dried in a very short time, and can be 
made with accuracy and little skill. 

From the gum paste No. 88 a variety of orna- 
ments can be made Molds of plaster of parls 
are used, and the paste is pressed in the molds; 
it dries in a short time and keeps the shape well 
when taken from the molds. 

The modeling is also done by hand, but such 
work requires artistic taste, and much experience 
and practice. 

Flowers and figures are painted with colors 
diluted in syrup, to which some gum arabio has 
been added. 

Many of the cake ornaments are made from 
this paste, which generally consists of half starch 
and half sugar, and these are made in factories, 
where this work is carried on in a practical man- 
ner. For icing and ornamenting of cakes see 
No. 413. 

1 147.— PLASTER OF PARIS MOLDS. 

Take the original from which the cast is to be 
made, and with a soft brush coat it with sweet oil; 
suspend it in a frame or box about one inch larger 
in diameter. Prepare the plaster of paris quickly 
but carefully, sprinkling the powder in cold water, 
stirring at the same time, till it forms a thick 
creamy mass; then pour it in the frame to sur- 
round and cover the object. 

It will harden in about ten minutes; but it is 
best to let harden in the cast for about half an 
hour. 

Smooth casts are sawed in halves. 

Angular figures have to be cut in more parts. 

An opening is cut if the molds are intended for 
casting in sugar or in fat. 

The molds may be made more durable by ex- 
posing them to a dry heat. 

Candy molds are varnished on both sides. 

To make half casts for molding, the oiled object 
may be pressed halfway down in the thin plaster 
and removed when the plaster hardens; but a 
better way to make such casts is to take common 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 

cover them with thin layers of gum paste; or use 
a brush and some royal icing diluted with gum 
water. 

Borders may be made from gum paste, or the 
stand may be piped with royal icing. 

Plain royal icing after it becomes dry falls from 
the coated objects, and the wooden stand should 
be rubbed or brushed with diluted fruit jelly be- 
fore putting on the icing, which makes it adhere 
better. 

1 148.— FIGURES AND SOCLES FROM FAT, 
WAX, STEARIN AND PARAFFIN. 

For figures take even parts of paraffin and 
stearin; or, take one part of paraffin, one part of 
mutton tallow, one part of white wax, and one 
part of lard. 

Melt all parts together on a slow fire; do not let 
the mixture get too hot, because it turns the fat 
yellow, and the cast objects should be white. 

When the melted fat has cooled a little, make 
the castings. If color is added, it should be done 
while the mixture is hot. 

The plaster molds used for casting should be 
laid in water of about 75' Fahr. for half an hour 
before casting; then drain off the water, run in 
the fat and put the mold in cold water. 

If you wish the castings hollow, allow a little 
time for the outside crust to from, reverse the 
mold, let the liquid part run out, and return to 
the water to harden; then remove the casting care- 
fully from the mold. 

A preparation of even parts of wax and mutton 
tallow is used for molding flowers and small ob- 
jects by hand. The mixture is melted together 
and set to harden; the next day it is cut in fine 
shavings, which are worked in a cloth till soft and 
pliable. The flowers are formed by hand like the 
sugar flowers ( see No. 1143) . 

Small bunches of grass are imitated by press- 
ing green-colored fat through a sieve in small 
threads. 

Small blossoms and flowers are also made with 
lead forms which are cast in the shape of the 
flower; the form is fastened to a wire, the para- 
potters' clay and press one-half of the object into ffin and wax is melted and the form dipped first 



the clay, leaving only the part exposed of which 
the cast is to be made. Brush the exposed part 
with oil, place a frame around the object and pour 
in the plaster. 

For border and face casts of this kind, sulphur 
is often used; also for casting the faces of coins 
and medallions. The sulphur is melted on a slow 
fire, tha object oiled and the cast is made the same 
way as with the plaster of paris. 

To make stands for ornamental pieces, it is ad- 
visable to use wooden stands of suitable size, and 



in the paraffin and then in iced water; it hardens 
immediately and can be taken out of the form. 
The center can be made with a paper cornet, with 
soft tallow. 

To use the fat for decorating with bag and tube: 
Melt two parts of mutton tallow with one part of 
lard, strain through a fine cloth into a basin and 
let cool; when it begins to set, beat with an egg- 
beater till white and light. 

To prepare the fat for large socles, take even 
parts of mutton tallow and leaf lard; free it from 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWFETMEATS. I39 

the Strings and wash in cold water; then put in a from hafd wood (or it can be of metal). The 
pan on the fire and cover with water; let boil board is dipped in hot water and drawn around 
slowly and stir occasionally, till the water has the sides till the socle is formed. The socle is 
evaporated, and the fat is nice and clear. Strain further decorated with borders of wax or gum- 
through a cloth and set to cool. When it begins paste, and the smaller side decorations are made 
to set, beat light and white. from castings, as described above. ' 

Now take a wooden center or stand and cover Some of the best artists in this class of work 
it with the fat about one and one-half or two form socles and figures by hand in the same man- 
inches thick and set aside till it hardens. ner as other figures are modeled in clay or carved 

To shape the fat, a profile board is used, cut in wood. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



1 149.— EGG PRESERVING. 
There are many methods of preserving eggs, 
such as varnishing, or packing in dry salt, liming, 
and the water-glass method; but only the latter 
two have proved practical and satisfactory for 
general use. The old-time liming process is still 
considered by many the simplest, best and cheap- 
est method in use; while it is said the preserving 
of eggs in a water-glass solution keeps them even 
in a better condition than the lime and salt mix- 
ture, with only a slight increase of cost. 

1 149-A.— LIMING EGGS. 

Take twenty-five gallons of water, six pounds 
of salt and twelve pounds of lime. Select the 
finest kind of lime that will slake nice and white. 
Slake the lime with a part of the water, and then 
add the rest with the salt gradually; stir well, 
then let settle and cool. 

Place one layer of fresh eggs in the bottom of 
the vat or barrel; stir the lime-milk and pour care- 
fully over the eggs; place another layer on top of 
the first one, pour over more of the lime, and 
continue till the barrel is filled. Keep the pickle 
over the eggs. The above quantity may be in- 
creased or diminished, according to the quantity 
of eggs to be pickled. 

To use the eggs, place them in a wire basket or 
on a grate, and pour over cold water to remove the 
hme. The vat should be kept in a cellar or other 
cool place where a low temperature can be main- 
tained. 

1149-B.— WATER-GLASS PRESERVED 
EGGS. 

The water-glass, which can be had from the 
wholesale druggist, is simply mixed with water 
which has been previously boiled and cooled to 
normal temperature, in proportion of one pound 
of water-glass to ten pounds of water. 

For use: the eggs are simply taken from the 
solution by hand and dried before using. Eggs 
thus preserved should be kept in a dark cool place, 
and will keep for eight months and more. 



1150.— PLUM DUFF. 

Plum duff is the sailors' name for plum pudding. 
It is made in a variety of ways, and according to 
what the often very scant storf of the ship can 
supply. On the big ocean liners, for the crew and 
second-class passengers, it is made of yeast-raised 
rolls dough, to which raisins and currants are 
added; the dough is given a little time to raise 
and is divided in two-pound pieces, placed in 
canvas bags, tied up and dropped in a large boiler 
filled with boiling water. A sweet sauce is served 
with the pudding, and often a compote of stewed 
prunes is given in place of the sauce. 

For the captain's table and first-class pass- 
engers, the plum duff is enriched by adding more 
fruit, and also citron and orange peel and spices, 
which makes this pudding like the boiled plum 
pudding. A rich brandy sauce is served with this 
pudding and, if it should be Christmas time, a 
sprig of holly, carefully kept for this occasion by 
the cook, is placed on the pudding when served. 

Here is another recipe for PLUM DUFF from 
one of the smaller boats: Take three cups of flour, 
one cupful of beef drippings, or chopped suet, 
one cup of raisins, one cup of currants, one cup 
of molasses, one teaspoonful of allspice, a little 
salt, half a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix all together with the soda dissolved in 
water. Wet a cloth and dust with flour, put the 
mixture in the middle and tie up. Drop into a 
pot of boiling water and boil for twi hours. 
Serve with a hot syrup sauce flavored with plenty 
of good rum. 

1151.— THE USE OF GLUCOSE IN PRE- 
SERVING OF FRUIT. 

Sugar after it reaches the blow degree in boil- 
ing readily crystalizes, and for this reason a cer- 
tain quantity of acid is added if this is not desired. 
This acid transforms the sugar into uncrystaliz- 
able sugar. 

The same result is obtained by adding glucose 
to the sugar. Glucose, or com sugar, is inverted 
sugar, only it contains less sweetening properties. 



X4° 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES ANE SWEETMEATS. 



One part of sugar is said to sweeten as much as two 
and one-half parts of glucose. By using one-third 
part of glucose with two-thirds of sugar, a more 
acceptable preserve of less sweetness may be ob- 
tained, with a better flavor of the fruit. 

1152.— TO PRESERVE CITRON. 

Cut fresh citron, remove the seeds and keep in 
cold water for three days, changing the water 
every day; or place in running water. 

Much citron and orange peel is imported in salt 
brine of about twelve per cent, in strength; if 
this citron is used, wash it in water till all the salt 
is removed. 

Blanch the fresh or pickled citron in clear 
water, by setting it on the fire and let simmer; 
keep it near the boiling point (but do not let it 
boil) till soft. During the blanching process some 
green color may be added to give a nice color. 

When soft, place again in cold or running water 
to lose some of the bitter taste. Put the peel in 
jars and pour over a hot syrup made with three 
quarts of water and two pounds of sugar; or 
weigh the syrup to 16 degrees syrup-scale. Let 
the syrup remain in the peel for two days. Drain 
and reboil the syrup and add more sugar to make 
20 degrees Baum^. After this time, drain the 
syrup every three days and increase the syrup 
every time two more degrees by adding more 
sugar till it reaches 32 degrees B. The citron or 
peel should be fully candied by this time, and may 
be left in the syrup for use; but if you want to 
glace it, take it from the syrup and wipe dry with 
a moist sponge, and set to dry on a wire grate. 

When dry, take five pounds of sugar and one 
quart of water, boil to the blow degree, and drop 
in the peel; let boil for one minute; take out the 
peel with a fork and drain on a wire grate; then 
set in the dry closet till all the moisture has 
evaporated. 

1153.— SALTED ALMONDS. 
DEVILED ALMONDS. 

Blanch and dry sweet almonds and brown to a 
fawn color. Put a pat of butter on a pan and let 
brown, add the hot almonds, shake well together 
and place in a sieve. Sprinkle with fine table salt 
and let cool. 

Another method of salting almonds is to fry the 
dry almonds in fresh butter till brown; then drain 
and sprinkle with salt. 

Another mode, is to roast the almonds to a nice 
brown, then moisten them with gum water and 
sprinkle with fine salt. 

DEVILED ALMONDS are made by adding 
a dash of cayenne pepper with the salt. 

1154.— SALTED PEANUTS. 
Roast the peanuts and rub ofi the brown cover- 



ing. Finish same way as for salted almonds No. 
1153. The peanuts may also be blanched before 
roasting. 

1155.— SA: TED CHESTNUTS. 
Make a cross incision on the shell of the nuts; 
roast and peel; or boil in water and remove the 
peel and thin skin. Fry in butter and salt same 
way as for salted almonds No. 1153. 

1156.— STUFFED DATES. 
Select choice dates and remove the seed; fill 
the opening with half a walnut or pecan-nut; or 
make a roll of cream fondant and use for filling. 

1157.— TO CLEAN RAISINS and CURRANTS. 

Place them in a coarse sieve and rub with a 
little flour to break off the stems; after this take 
them on the table, with one hand push aside the 
raisins, with the other hand the loosened stems 
and gravel. 

Currants require washing. Place the currants 
in a sieve and set the sieve in a pan of water; 
soak and wash, changing the water till it remains 
clear; the sand will fall through the sieve into the 
pan. Let the currants dry, and pick over care- 
fully to remove the pieces of gravel which have 
not been removed in the water. 

1158.— COCOANUT ICE OR SHERBET. 

Take the grated meat and milk of two fresh 
cocoanuts; add three quarts of water and let 
slowly come to a boil; set aside and let simmer 
for fifteen minutes; place in a stone jar and let 
cool. When about luke-warm, strain through a 
clean towel and add two pounds of sugar, stir till 
dissolved and add two or three beaten egg whites. 
Freeze as usual. 

Desiccated cocoanut may be used if fresh 
cocoanut cannot be had. Take four to six ounces 
of the cocoanut to each quart of water and let 
simmer on the fire for fifteen minutes; cool and 
strain. Add for each quart, eight ounces of sugar 
and one white of egg, and freeze. 

The juice of some lemons or oranges may be 
added; also the flavor of orange flower water or 
vanilla extract. 

1 1 59.— SPAGHETTI PUDDING. 
MACARONI PUDDING. 

Break one pound of spaghetti in one^inch pieces, 
put in d. pan and pour over one quart and one pint 
of boiling milk; let simmer slowly till soft. Take 
off the fire and add four ounces of butter and six 
ounces of sugar and mix together; let cool. 

Then add twelve eggs: Separate the yolks and 
mix with four ounces of chopped almonds. Beat 
the whites firm and draw in 'carefully. Add a 
pinch of mace and half a grated lemon rind and 
bake in buttered mold. Serve with cream sauce. 



PAUL RICHAItDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



141 



MACARONI PUDDING may be made in the 
same manner. 

1 160. —CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKE. 

To use left over stale bread : Soak the bread in 
sour milk over night. For each pound of bread 
take one quart of milk. In the morning rub 
through a sieve or colander, add four eggs, one 
ounce of melted butter, and two teaspoonfuls of 
soda dissolved in water, add a little flour or corn- 
meal to make it like ordinary griddle cakes. 

Another way is to grate the bread, or trim off 
the crust, and soak it in milk or water; add to 
each pound of it, eight ounces of flour sifted with 
one teaspoonful of baking powder; add three 
eggs, a little melted butter, salt, and more milk to 
make a smooth batter, and bake like other griddle 
cakes. 

1161.— ENGLISH CARROT PUDDING. 

One pound of grated carrots, twelve ounces of 
finely-chopped suet, one pound of raisins, one 
pound of currants, one pound of boiled potatoes 
(grated when cold) , one pound of brown sugar, 
one pound and eight ounces of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little salt. 

Mix all the ingredients together dry. Steam or 
boil in cloth for three hours. 

When done, take from the cloth; put in the 
oven to brown and bake for twenty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

1162.— USE OF CONDENSED CREAM 
AND MILK. 

For ice cream, use even quantities of condensed 
cream and water. To each gallon of the mixed 
cream and water add one pound and twelve ounces 
of sugar; heat and let cool. Flavor and freeze as 
usual. 

Condensed milk contains sugar; to use it, dilute 
one part of the milk with two parts of boiling 
water, let cool, flavor and freeze. 

For richer creams the yolks of eggs may be 
added in the same manner as for other ice creams. 

If fresh milk can be used with the condensed 
cream or milk in place of water, it wiU make a 
still richer mixture. 

Condensed milk diluted with three parts of hot 
water may be used for puddings, custard, and 
cream cake fillings. 

1163.— PIE A LA MODE. 

This name appears sometimes on bills-of-fare. 
A slice of fruit pie, (generally apple pie), is 
served with a spoonful of ice cream on top, or on 
the side. 
1164.— CAKE BAKING IN HIGH ALTITUDES. 

Bakers not used to work in high altitudes always 
experience some difiScnlty in using the general rolled oatmeal. 



recipes. Yeast works more vigorously in sponge 
and doughs, makes them come faster. But the 
most difiSculty is with *he cake mixtures. The 
ordinary mixtures rise too much in baking, and 
fall like as if there was too much baking powder 
in it. During the time I worked in Denver,. 
Colorado, I had trouble with my own recipes. I 
learned to overcome the diflSculty by comparing 
the recipes used there by other bakers. The 
amount of sugar in these receipes had been 
reduced two, three, and in some recipes nearly 
four ounces. Some recipes contained more flour, 
and the raising material, baking powder or am- 
monia, was about half, and in some mixtures one- 
third less than in the Eastern mixtures. 

The remedy is to reduce the sugar two or three 
ounces each pound in all the mixtures, and reduce 
the 'raising material to one-half or one-third of 
the usual amount. 

1 165.— THE USE OF LIME WATER IN 
BAKING. 

Lime water has been used for years to improve 
weak flours and correct flours which have got 
damp in the package and become musty. It is 
also used in flours which run in the dough, caused 
by unripe and sprouted wheat. 

This lime water is made by taking one pound of 
fresh slaked lime and mix it well with one pail 
(twelve quarts) of water; let it settle and draw 
off the clear liquid without disturbing the sedi- 
ment on the bottom. Use from one to two quarts 
of this liquid to each ten quarts of dough. 

Do not use the lime water in the sponge. Set 
the sponge with a little more yeast than usual, and 
when the sponge is ready, use the lime water and 
more water for doughing. The lime water checks 
fermentation, that is the reason why it should not 
be used in the sponge. 

It is said that some physicians advise the use of 
lime water in breads as an aid to digestion, 

1 166.— OATMEAL CAKE. 

Mix one pound of oatmeal with one pint of 
buttermilk and let soak over night. In the morn- 
ing dissolve a small teaspoonful of soda in a litde 
water with a pinch of salt; mix and add more 
meal, if required, to make a. firm paste. Form 
in flat thin cakes the size and thickness of 
griddle cakes, and bake on a pan in a medium 
hot oven. 

Some shortening in form of butter or lard 
may be added, and water or sweet milk can bo 
used. 

The stone ground meal is preferable for these 
cakes. It makes a better cake than flaked or 



To make Creme de Noyean, take one pint of 
spirits to one pint of symp at thirty-two degrees. 



142 PAUL RICHARD'S BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 

1167. — TO PRESERVE RHUBARB IN 
WATER. 

The young tender stulis require no peeling; 
otherwise peel ofC the outer skin, cut in small 
pieces, and fill in jars. Fill jars with fresh cold 
water, close the jars, steam or boil for fifteen 
minutes. 



1168.— TO PRESERVE OTHER FRUIT IN 
WATER. 

The fruits are bottled, covered with fresh boiled 
water; then the jars or cans are closed airtight 
and steamed, or kept in boiling water till the heat 
penetrates and preserves the fruit. 

This process sterilizes but does not cook the 
fruit. 

The time to STERILIZE the FRUITS is given: 

For small fruit with stones: for quarts, ten 
minutes; pints, eight minutes: 

For large fruit with stones: for quarts, twelve 
minutes; for pints, ten minutes. 

For pitted fruits, as pears, half peaches and 
apricots: for quarts, eight minutes; for pints, six 
minutes. 

1169.— BRANDY PEACHES. 
BRANDY CHERRIES. 
BRANDY PLUMS. 
AND OTHER FRUIT. 
Take medium ripe fruit. 

Wash and prick peaches or plums with a silver 
fork and put in stone jars. 

Pour over a hot syrup, made with two quarts 
of water and two pounds of sugar. The next 
day, drain off the syrup, reboil, add eight ounces 
more of sugar, and leave on the fruit for three 
days. 

Drain the syrup from the fruit; put the fruit in 
bottles and cover with a syrup of thirty-two de- 
grees. Add to each pint of the syrup one quart 
of proof spirits and put on the covers. A syrup 
of this density may be made with one quart of 
water and two pounds and twelve ounces of sugar. 

1170.— ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE 
PEACHES IN WATER. 

Take medium ripe peaches, prick each one 
several times with a silver fork, put on the fire in 
cold water and let come near a boil. Do not let 
boil, but simmer slowly till they can be pierced 
with a straw; then fill into bottles or jars with 
boiling water and close up tight. 

1171.— EXTRACTS OF NOYEAU. 
CREME DE NOYEAU. 

Cover stones and pits of peaches, plums and 
cherries with proof spirits from two to three weeks, 
and filter. 



1172.— MARASCHINO EXTRACT. 
Take one pint of the Noyeau Extract No. 1171, 
two ounces of orange flower water, four ounces of 
raspberry extract, one quart of syrup, and half a 
pint of spirits. 



1173.— REMEDIES AGAINST ANTS IN 
BAKERIES. 

Ants are very fond of sugar and often become 
a great nuisance in the bakery. 

One of the common remedies is to set the legs 
of the tables in cans of water. 

Another remedy is to scald or bum the ants 
frequently. 

Another remedy is to soak a sponge with a thin 
syrup, which attracts the ants, then put the 
sponge in boiling water. 

Ants are fond of lard; it is said that a mixture of 
sixty grains of corrosive chloride of mercury with 
one ounce of lard is certain death to all insects. 
Some of this poisoned grease put in crevices or 
in a ring on the legs of tables will be a complete 
protection. Ants cannot cross the grease and live. 
In mixing avoid getting it on the hands, and do 
not place or leave any of the poison where it may 
result in harm. 

1174.— REMEDY FOR RED ANTS. 
Use eight ounces of aqua ammonia mixed with 
one ounce of creosote, and sprinkle it around 
where the ants appear. 

1175 —RYE BREAD AS A WALL PAPER 
CLEANER. 

In some hotels rye bread is used to clean ex- 
pensive wall paper. 

Bake round loaves of the bread; do not give 
much proof in baking. When the bread is baked 
and while still warm, cut each loaf in four pieces, 
crosswise, pull out the soft crumb in one piece 
and press and form into a firm cone or ball. The 
paper is rubbed with this paste. The paste is 
moist but does not stick to the paper; but cleanses 
it effectively. 

Another wall paper cleaner which has been used 
in the old Richelieu Hotel, Chicago, is known by 
the name of DR. EWELL'S WALL-PAPER 
CLEANER. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of blue vitriol in one 
pint of boiling water; while boiling, stir in suffi- 
cient winter wheat flour to make a firm paste. 
Then mix and work into it by kneading, two 
spoonfuls of pearline, one spoonful of glycerine, 
two spoonfuls of oil of sassafras. 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OP BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



M3 



BREAD ECONOMIES IN THE HOTEL 

In the modem hotel of to-day, everything is 
arranged with a view to the greatest economy, 
and every detail is closely looked after to reduce 
expenses and prevent waste. One of the problems 
which come before hotel men is, how to reduce 
the waste of bread. 

In large hotels this waste often amounts to two 
or three barrelfuls or bagfuls a day. It consists 
of left-over and broken rolls and mufiSns, dry cuts 
of French bread, and for the most part, the trim- 
mings and ends of toast bread. 

Although much of the left-over bread is utilized Other hotels use single pans which are made to 
in the kitchen and help's dining room, sometimes hold one two-pound loaf. These pans are from 
it accumulates in such quantities that all of it twelve to eighteen inches long and about three 




WASTE OF BREAD BAKED IN OPEN PANS. 




NEW PULLMAN. 




OPEN SINGLE PAN. 




Wi 



c^ 




WASTE OF BREAD BAKED IN OPEN PANS. 

inches deep, narrow on the bottom and wide on 
the top. 
Bread baked in these open pans forms a round 



SHEET IRON PAN. 



cannot be used, and it is sold for very little, or 
given away for chicken or horse feed. 

As I said above, the largest part consists of 
trimmings and ends of toast bread. This part of 
the waste can be cut down to almost nothing, if 
the proper kind of pans are used for baking the 
toast bread in. 

Almost all the restaurants who buy their bread 
from the baker are using bread which is baked in 
covered pans; and some wide-awake hotel men 
also use covered pans (known as Pullman pans ) 
to bake the toast bread in. 

But in -a. majority of the hotels this is not the 
case. 

i'n most hotels the bread used for toast is baked 
in large square pans, about i8 x 25 x 3 inches, and 
five or six two-pound loaves are baked in one pan. 




NO WASTE OF BREAD WHEN BAKED IN COVERED PANS. 

top, the sides and ends contract, and a thick brown 
crust forms in baking. 

Bread toasts better when a day or two old. 
The loaves baked in the multiple pans are cut or 
often broken apart, and each loaf is cut in slices, 



144 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



suitable for toast. From each end of the loaf one 
thick slice is cut off that goes into the waste bar- 
rel; and when the other slices are toasted they 
are trimmed square, and the brown top and bot- 
tom crust also goes in the waste barrel. 

One other drawback of bread baked like this 
is, that the crumb soon gets very dry, and in hot 
kitchens large cracks form in the center of the 
loaves, which makes it unfit to be cut in slices. 

Nearly all of this waste disappears if the bread 
is baked under cover, or in Pullman pans. 

The pans are called Pullman Bread Pans be- 
cause the bread used on dining cars and in many 
depots is baked in these pans. 

The pans are not a novelty. I have used pans 
like these twenty-five years ago in New York City 
at the old Sinclair Hotel. The proprietor, Mr. 
Ashman, had the pans made after his own design 
to prevent waste. 

The reason why these pans are not more in use, 
is (probably) because it is easier for the baker to 
use large open pans. Baking single loaves in 
closed pans makes more work in cleaning, greas- 
ing and handling the pans. But I think this is 
offset in the smaller amount he would have to 
bake. 

The size of the regular Pullman pan as used at 
depots, is ten inches long and about four and one- 
half inches square, with a sliding cover. This 
size makes -a. large square slice, which is especi- 
ally well suited for sandwiches. 

For hotels it would be more profitable to use 
two sizes of pans: a large size like above for club 
sandwiches and other purposes where a large slice 
is required; and a smaller size, about 3^ or 3^ 
inches square, for toast. Both sizes of pans could 
be from eighteen to twenty inches long. This size 
would reduce the waste of ends. 

The smaller size also makes a nice slice, if used 
for table bread. 

Breads like this, baked in covered pans, acquire 
a different taste. The crumb becomes moister and 
retains its moisture longer. Only a very thin crust 
is formed in baking, and the flavor is like that of 
Vienna bread. 

The flavor and the thin crust makes this bread 
often more acceptable to patrons who do not like 
the hard-crusted French bread; and others would 
relish it for a change. 

Although the French bread is the acknowledged 
table bread, the trend of the public inclines more 
and more to the thin soft-crusted breads, which 
are very popular in the ordinary restaurants. 

I am giving here some experiences which I had 
in some Southern resort hotels, in the hope that 
it may do some good. In one hotel we had the 
old-style pans, and were baking five two-pound 



loaves in one pan. I talked the matter over with 
the steward about getting covered pans; then it 
was laid before the proprietor. He saw the point 
at once, and ordered several dozen of the pans 
from a Cincinnati firm. 

Before we used these pans we had from five to 
six big potato-bagfuls of dry bread left over per 
week. This was given to a farmer, who furnished 
us with sawdust for use on the kitchen floor in 
return for the bread. After we had the pans in 
use for a week, not more than half of the former 
amount of bread was left over. 

The satisfaction was all around. The pantry- 
girl who had to cut the bread said: "It cuts 
much better: does not crumble like the other did." 
The girl who made the toast said : ' ' The slices fit 
better in the toaster and it toasts better." And 
the waiters said: "It is much better, because we 
do not have to trim it after toasting." 

Sometimes we would run short of French bread, 
and we served some of the fresh baked loaves for 
dinner; after a while the waiters began to ask for 
this bread, because some of the patrons liked it 
better than the French bread. 

The buying of these pans was a very good in- 
vestment, and the cost was saved in a few months' 
time. 

As to the cost of the pans, we had two price 
lists to choose from. One firm quoted three sizes 
of pans at $3.60, $3.75 and $4.00 per dozen, and 
one firm only one size at seventy-five cents each. 
We paid $3.75 per dozen. The pans are made of 
heavy white tin, and have been in use now for 
several years. 

■Wnite tin possesses this peculiarity: when new 
and bright, it repels heat. For this reason, for 
the first week, it is difiScult to give the proper 
color to the crust in baking; but after the bright- 
ness wears of, the pans bake as well as pans made 
of black sheet steel or Russia iron. 

OTHER CAUSES OF WASTE BREAD. 

It is the custom in many hotels to cut the bread 
before the meal starts, and each waiter carries as 
much of the cut bread to his station as he expects 
to use during the dinner. This method probably 
tends to quicker service; but, as is generally the 
case, the waiters carry in more than they actually 
require in order to save themselves an extra trip 
to the pantry; and, as it often happens, some of 
the expected patrons do not appear for dinner. 
The bread after standing for two hours in the 
dining room is carried back to the scrap table. 

All cut bread dries quickly; and I think it would 
be more pleasing to the patrons and more profit- 
able to hotelmen if each order of bread would be 
served freshly cut, with the other orders. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKES, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. 



J45 



In some kitchens more of this left-over dry 
bread is nsed than in others. This depends 
mainly on the chef. 

At one other large Southern hotel, -where I was 
employed several seasons, with different chefs, 
we had a. very e£Scient chef, who is at present one 
of the best known stewards. While this chef 
presided over the kitchen there was very little 
bread wasted. Every day the left-over bread was 
carefully looked over, the brown crusts were trim- 
med off each slice, and put through a large bread- 
crumbing machine, run by power, and was made 
into crumbs. 

The crumbs were used for various purposes, 
but the largest part went into pork sausage and 
fricadelles for the help. We had nearly two 
hundred colored help, and pork sausage was one 
of the favorite dishes. The fresh pork was 
bought in the shape of whole pigs from the farm- 
ers. This chef knew how to use it to the best 
advantage, and every particle of it was used. 
When one realizes that good ordinary pork sausage 



contains about fifty per cent, of soaked bread 
crumbs or cracker meal, one would think it would 
pay to make the sausage in the hotel, instead of 
paying the butcher for stale bread. 

\a comparison with other chefs we had there 
other seasons, this chef saved in my department 
about one barrel of flour every week, and inci- 
dentally the work of making it into bread, not to 
speak of the other ingredients which go into good 
bread, besides .saving money to the hotel otherwise. 

One other cause which tends to a waste of bread 
is the idea that bread is an article of little value, 
because there are very tew hotel men who know 
how much each loaf of bread costs them to pro- 
duce. This idea is shared by the employes. I 
have often heard the remark, " O, bread is cheap, 
the loss don't amount to much." This is especi- 
ally so where the bread is baked in the hotel. In 
places where it is bought from the baker, it is 
more closely looked after, because the value of 
each loaf is known and charged to the department 
it is used in. 




146 



PAUL RICHARDS BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICBS AND SWEETMEATS. 



CATERERS' PRICE LIST. 



ICE CREAMS. 

60c PER QUART, ONE QUART TO SERVE SIX PERSONS. 

Vanilla Peach Chocolate 

Strawberry Banana Bisque 

New York Pineapple Lemon 

Raspberry Apricot Orange 

Harlequin Neapolitan Caramel 

7SC PER QUART, ONE QUART TO SERVE SIX PERSONS. 

Nougat Hazelnut Walnut 

Pistachio Hickory Pecan nut 

Tortoni French Sultana 

Si. 00 PER QUART. 
Bisque of almonds. 
Vanilla with brandy cherries. 
Vanilla with preserved figs. 
Vanilla with French fruit. 
Charlotte panache in melon mold. 
Vanilla with preserved strawberries. 
Vanilla with peaches. 

WATER ICES. 

60c PER QUART, ONE QUART TO SERVE SIX PERSONS. 

Lemon Raspberry Peach 

Orange Grape Cherry 

Strawberry Catawba Currant 

Apricot Pineapple 

SHERBETS. 
60c PER QUART, ONE QUART TO SERVE SIX PERSONS. 

Pineapple Lemon Strawberry 

Cherry Orange Raspberry 

Apple Sherry Catawba 

Pear Rose Grape 

FROZEN PUNCHES. 

$1.00 PER QUART. 

Roman Champagne Imperial 

Victoria Cardinal American 

Kirschwasser Curacao Benedictipe 

Siberian Yvette Royal 

Bonanza Favorite Prince of Wales 

FROZEN EGG NOGG. 

$1.00 PER QUART. 

FRAPP6S AND GRANITOS. 

(one gallon TO SERVE THIRTY PERSONS. ) 

Lemon, $1.50 Orange, $1.50 

Strawberry, $1,73 Pineapple, $1.75 

Cocoa, $2.00 Claret, $2.50 

Coffee, $3.00 Sauteme Cup, $3.00 

Lalla Rookh, $3.00 
Champagne punch frapp^, $5.00 
Maraschino Cream punch, $3.00 
Punches in ice glasses, $4.00 per dozen. 



FROZEN PUDDINGS. 

Nesselrode, with sauce, $1.25; without sauce, $1.00 

Plum, " " $1.25; " " $1.00 

Columbia, " " $1.25; " " $1.00 

Diplomat Iced Pudding, $1.25. 

Manhattan Iced Pudding, $1.25. 

BISQUIT GLACES 

^ IN QUARTS TO SERVE SIX PERSONS. 

Strawberry, Raspberry, Vanilla or Chocolate, 
60 cents per quart. 

I Walnut, Almond, Macaroon, Pistachio, Marron, 
Rum, Maraschino or Coffee, 75 cents per quart. 

Individual glaces in paper cases, $2.50 perdoz. 

Tutti-Fruiti glace, Waldorf glace, Martin glace, 
SoufHe glace, Tortoni glace, in fancy cases, from 
$3.00 to $5.00 per dozen. 

Bavarian Creams in fancy forms, $1 per dozen. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
Glass bowl, plain, so cents per quart. 
Glass bowl, decorated, 75 cents per quart. 
In plain paper cases, individual, 30 cts. per doz. 
In fancy paper cases, individual. $2.00 per doz. 
In wafer cases, - - $1.30 per doz. 

Plain whipped cream, per quart, 30 cents. 

SPECIALTIES. 
Fruit Salad in Orange Baskets, $4.00 per doz. 
Oranges filled with Punch, $4.00 per doz. 
Individual Ices and Creams in forms, $2 per doz. 
Individual Tees and Creams in forms, painted 
and trimmed, $2.30 to $6.00 per doz. 

Charlotte Panache, $2.00 to $6.00 perdoz. 
Spun Sugar Nests, $1.00 per dozen. 
Fruit Salad Glace, $1.50 per quart. 



CAKES. 

PUFF-PASTE CAKES. 
Pattie Shells, large, 30 cents per dozen; small, 
33 cents per dozen. 

Apple Turnovers, 60 cents per dozen. 
Mince Turnovers, 60 cents per dozen. 
Tartlets of Fruit or Cream, from 30 cents to 
30 cents per dozen. 

VOL AU VENTS. 

PRICE ACCORDING TO SIZE. 

Roman Cases, 60 cents per dozen. 

Finger Rolls, Bread Sticks and Cheese Straws, 
20 cents per dozen. 

Loaf Cakes and Angel Food, 30 cents per lb. 

Caramel Cake, 60c.; Chocolate Cake, 60c.; Nut 
Cake, 60c.; Orange Cake, 60c.; Cocoanut Cake, 
60c.; White Mountain Cake, 60c.: Sponge Cake, 
60c.; Fig Cake, 73c.; Pineapple Cake, 730.; Layer 
Nut Cakes, 73c. 



PAUL RICHARDS' BOOK OF BREADS, CAKBS, PASTRIES, ICES AND SWEETMEATS. I47 

Large Tart Cakes from $1.50 upwards. SANDWICHES. 

Orange Tourte, Vienna Tourte, Bread Tourto, per 100 

Alliance Tourte, Almond Tourte, Punch Tourte, Bread and Butter ti.50 

Tourte k la Qreme, Etc., Etc. Brown Bread and Butter 1.50 

Fruit Cakes, 73 cents per pound. Lettuce and Butter 2.50 

Madison Cake, 60 cents per pound. Ham and Butter 2.50 

Pound Cake, 50 cents per pound. Chicken and Butter 2.50 

Delicate Cake, 50 cents per pound. Salad and Butter 4.00 

Small Cake Macaroons, 60 cents per pound. _,,„_-_„ 

Fancy Cake, 60 cents per pound. <-> ^ t, j ^ 

■' f f Oyster. Per doz. $2.00 

P^^^- Chicken Per doz. 2.50 

25 CENTS EACH. t v » -r. j 

•^ Lobster Per doz. 2.50 

WEDDING CAKES. CROQUETTES, per dozen $2.00. 

Bride's Cake, from $3.00 to $20. TIMBALES, per dozen, *2.50 to $3.00. 

Groom's Cake, from $5.00 to $25. CUTLETS, $2.00 to $2.50. 
Wedding Boxes, filled, per 100 $18 to $26. 

BIRTHDAY CAKES, from $1.50 to $10. SALADS. 

ONE gUART TO SERVE EIGHT PERSONS. 

PER DOZ. PER DOZ. ^^^^^^ Per quart $2.50 

Queen Cakes 20c Rolled Wafers 15c Sweet Bread Per quart 2.50 

Ginger Snaps loc Croquantes 25c Chicken Per quart 2.00 

Lady Locks 60c Wafer Kisses 30c Shrimp Per quart 2.00 

Cream Pufis 30D Fancy Macaroons. . 20c Nut Per quart 2.00 

Chocolate Eclairs. . 30c Almond Steeples ... 12c Celery Per quart i . 50 

Othellos 60c Meringue Kisses. .. i2C Potato Per quart i.oo 

Desdemonas 60c Fancy Meringues. . 150 Crab Per quart 2.00 

Dominos 30c Cocoanut Steeples. 15c Mayonnaise Salad Dressing, $2.00 per quart. 

Hearts 30c Scotch Cakes 25c French Salad Dressing, $1.50 per quart. 

Crescents 25c Brandy Wafers 15c Tartar Sauce, $1.50 per quart. 

Ladyfingers 12c Springerle 15c Deviled Crabs, $1.50 per dozen. 

Cocoanut Drops. . . 12c Anise Toast 15c Soft Shell Crabs, $3.00 per dozen. 

Trimbles 12c Anise Drops 12c Lobster k la Newberg, $2. 50 per quart. 

Diamonds 25c Lobster k la Newberg, individual, $3 per dozen. 

SALTED ALMONDS, 80 cents per pound; TO HIRE. 

Pecans, $1.00 per pound; Peanuts, 60 cents per Different colors in chinaware, silverware, cut 

pound. glass, and linen. 

Peppermint or Wintergreen Wafers, 30 cents Use of carpet, $5.00. 

per pound. Use of canopy, $15.00. 

Wine and Liquor Jellies, from $1.00 to $2.00 Use of kneeling pillow. #5.00. 

per quart. Large entertainments at special ratss. 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



INDEX. 



A 

PAGE 

About yeast W 

Africans 38 

au chocolat 75 

Alaska punch 92 

souffle pudding 66 

Albany roll in 

Alencon ice cream PS 

Alexandras 23 

Anexandra pudding 56 

Alliance pudding ' 54 

tourte 34 

Almantinos 45 

Almond blancmange 69 

bread 43 

buns, German lu 

Almonds, burned 132 

Almond coffee cake 117 

Almonds, cream 132 

Almond cream fritters 76 

pie 18 

roll 54 

custard pudding 54 

Almonds, deviled 140 

Almond filling 14 

gugelhupf 119 

icecream 84 

jumbles 4° 

Almond nougat for small and 
large baskets and other 

ornamental work 132 

Almond or nut creams 134 

and nut cream filling 14 

paste 12 

'■ icing 25 

" macaroons from 42 

Almonds, salted 140 

Almond slices 46 

souffle 41&54 

stollen 118 

strips, German 39 

taffy 129 

tarts 21 

tourte, Vienna 33 

wafers 40&41 

Almontines 21 

American butter cakes 120 

cup 86 

fruit cake 31 

gugelhupf 119 

gum drops 133 

meringue 75 

punch 90 

rolls I" 

stollen 118 

American Vienna bread with 

sponge 104 

American Vienna rolls.straight 

dough no 

Angel cake 3o 

Angelica macaroons 43 

Anglais sauce 49 

Animals (meringue) 44 

Anise drops 42 

seed buns ii5 

slices 40 

toast 43 

zwieback "6 

Anisette glace 93 

punch 91 

Ants in bakeries, remedies.... 142 

Apples, baked 4 

compote 4 

Apple batter pudding 52 

braise 4 

bread pudding 52 

cake, German ii7 

Apples, charlotte of S3 

charlotte, Windsor S3 

Apple cobbler........... S2 

Apples, compote, baked 4 

sliced 4 

■' whole 4 

Apple cottage pudding 5? 

dumpling, baked 52 

steamed 53 

fritters 76 



A-B 

PAGE 

Apple fritters. Princess 76 

ice cream 84 

jam 

jelly 3 

marmalade 2 

Apples, meringue 44&S2 

Apple pancake 12s 

pie 16 

pudding, English 52 

family 52 

" French 52 

" reine 52 

" Vienna 52 

roll, baked 52 

" steamed 53 

sauce 4 

sherbet 87 

Apples, sliced, compote 4 

souffle of S3 

Apple turnover S3 

Apricot charlotte S3 & 67 

Apricots conde 61 

compote of 5 

Apricot ice 85 

ice cream 84 

jam 3 

jelly 3 

pie 17 

Apricots, preserved crushed.. 3 

Apricot roll, baked 53 

" steamed S3 

sauce 51 

" cold 51 

souffle 53 

Apricotine punch 91 

Arme ritter 77 

Babas (cold 75 

Baba, Dresden 47 

French 47 

polonaise 55 

au rum 54 

Bake shop, the 103 

Baked apples 4 

compote 4 

apple dumpling 52 

^ roll 52 

apricot roll 53 

blackberry roll 55 

blueberry roll 55 

cherry roll 56 

compote of apples 4 

custards 70 

diplomatic pudding 56 

icecream 66 

Indian fruit pudding 58 

pudding 57 

peaches S 

peach dumplings 69 

roll 59 

rice pudding; 60 

Baking cake, high altitudes 141 

heat and ovens 'loi 

powders 100 & 101 

use of lime water 141 

Balls, cocoanut cream 130 

popcorn 131 

Banana fritters 76 

ice cream 84 

Bananas, oranges and cocoa- 
nut, compote of 5 

Bananas and oranges, frozen.. 86 

Banana pie 17 

pudding meringue 55 

shortcake 74 

Bar le due jelly 2 

Baskets 46 

chantilly 38 & 136 

fruit with whipped cream 75 

meringue 44 

w. whipp'd cream 74 

nougat for 132 

Bath buns, English iiS 

plain lis 

Batter paste for sweet fritters 14 

for plain fritters 14 

puddings 54 



B 

PAGE 

Batter pudding, apple 53 

" peach 60 

Bavarian cream 68 

chocolate 68 

" in layers 68 

" raspberry 68 

" strawberry 68 

" vanilla 68 

Bavarols creme, panache 68 

Beaten biscuits, Maryland 122 

Southern. 122 & 123 

Virginia 122 

Beaume syrup scale 78 

Beignets souffle 13&76 

Belgrade slices 46 

Bellevue, charlotte 68 

Benedictine punch 91 

Berlins 23 

Berlin napfkuchen 47 

pancake Ii9 

Berry fritters 76 

pie 17 

Berries, preserved crushed 3 

Best honey cake 36 

Birds' nests 46 

nest pudding 52 

Biscuit cuilliere 37 

duchese 41 

glace 93 

■' vanille 93 

languedechat 41 

Metternich 43 

pudding 55 

queen 46 

Savoy 37 

seed 46 

souffleglace 04 

Virginia beaten 122 

Biscuits, Plymouth Rock 122 

Biscuit. Maryland beaten. 122 

Biscuits, sour milk 122 

Southern beaten 122 & 123 

sweet 121 & 122 

tea 122 

Bishop punch 90 

sauce 50 

Bismarks Ii9 

Bismark buns 115 

Bisque icecream 84 

Black cake 31 

molasses fr'tcakes,cheap 31 

Blackberry jam' 2 

meringue 55 

roll, baked 55 

" steamed 55 

shortcake 74 

Blanc mange, almo nd 69 

au cafe 69 

chocolate 69 

with coffee 69 

cornstarch 64 

with fruit 69 

withliQUors 69 

panache 69 

raspberry 69 

a la reine 69 

strawberry 69 

tapioca 6s 

Blueberries, compote of 5 

Blueberry meringue 55 

roll, baked 55 

" steamed 55 

Boiled chocolate icing zj 

custard 70 

rice, plain 60 

Bolivars 39 

Bomb a la Martin 96 

Bonanza punch 91 

Boston bread pudding 54 

brown bread 107 

with soda... 107 
" " yeast raised. 107 

cream puffs 37 

" with whipped 

cream 75 

griddle cakes 12s 



158 



B 



PAGE 

Boston lemon pie 17 

Bottom paste for laree cakes 

andlayers 11 

Boucheesdes dames 38&45 

Bourbon condes 43 

Braise, apple 4 

Baisees 42 

Brandied peaches 6 

Brandy cherries 142 

fruit 142 

peaches 142 

plums 142 

sauce 50 

English 49 

wafers 4i 

Brazilian cake 32 

Bread, almond 43 

American Vienna, with 

sponge 104 

Boston brown 107 

with soda... 107 
" yeast raised 107 

brown, electric 107 

& butter pudding family s. 54 

causes of waste 144 

Chicago, French 103 

Irish 106 

Quaker 105 

Columbia 104 

custard pudding S4 

economies in hotel 143 

English cottage 106 

French 103 

sponge for 108 

genuine Vienna 104 

gluten 106 

graham, from sponge 106 

straight dough... 106 

half rye 109 

health 106 

home-made 105 

w. compressed 

yeast 105 

home-made, w. ferment. .. 105 

Irish split loaves 106 

jocos 103 

Kinsley's French split 103 

malt 106 

Bread-making. q3 

recipes, manipulation of. 126 
Bread, to make various kinds 

from one large sponge.. 107 

milk 104 

mother's 106 

New England, w. sponge. 105 
*' " straight dough 105 

New Orleans corn, yeast 

raised 123 

New York French 103 

" " high round 106 

nut 124 

oaten 124 

pans 143 

pan, sponge for 108 

potato 106 

pudding, apple 52 

Boston 54 

Pulled 113 
ullman 104 

Quaker 105 

rye 108 

" asawallpapercleaner 142 

" with sponge log 

" sponge for 108 

" straight dough 108 

salt-raising 100 & 107 

Breads, Scotch short 38 

Bread, snowflake 105 

" w. buttermilk 105 

Southern buttermilk 124 

corn 123 

" family corn 123 

" fruit 124 

Breads, special hotel 112 

Bread for toast 143 

Breads, use of waste 144 

Vienna 104 

cream 104 

" sponge for 108 

" straight dough 104 

waste, causes of 144 

whole wheat io6 

" " w. potatoes. 107 

Brides' cake, English 31 

Brine 80 



B-C 

PAGE 

Brine freezing. 80 

" freezers for 8I 

storage for ice creams 81 

temperature of for f reez'g 81 

Brioche, French 109 

Brioches, Vienna no 

Brodchen, German 110 

Brown bread, Boston 107 

" w. soda.. 107 
" " " yeast rais'd 107 

" " electric 107 

" " icecream 84 

Buckwheat cakes 125 

" " with baking 

powder 125 

Buns, almond, German 114 

annis seed 115 

Bath, plain 115 

Bismark 115 

carraway 115 

Chelsea 118 

cinnamon 114 

cocoanut 115 

currant 114 

Bun dough 114 

Buns, English Bath 115 

and fancy rolls 113 

Floradora 115 

German streusel 115 

hot cross 114 

Martha Washington 115 

opera 115 

plain 114 

and rusks, sponge for 1:3 

sultana 114 

Bund kuchen iig 

Burgundy and port wine cup. _ _ 

Burned almonds 132 

Butter cakes, American 120 

" " New York 121 

Butter icing 25 

pretzels 118 

rolls Ill 

roll, German iii 

Scotch 129 

spongecake 29 

taffy 129 

wafers 41 

Buttermilk bread. Southern... 124 

doughnuts iig 

Cabinet fritters 76 

pudding 55 

cold 63 

a la royaU 55 

Cakes 35 

American butter 120 

Cake, American fruit 31 

angel 30 

apple pan 125 

baking 26 

" high altitudes 141 

black 31 

Cakes, black molasses fruit, 

cheap 31 

Cake, Brazilian 32 

Cakes, buckwheat 125 

'* with baking 

powder 125 

butter sponge 29 

Cake, Christmas 31 & 118 

cinnamon 117 

citron 31 

Cakes, coffee 116 

Cake, coffee, almond 117 

raisin 117 

streusel 116 

Cakes, coffee, and sweet rolls, 

sponge for 107 

crumb griddle 141 

Cake crumbs and left-over 

cakes, use of 48 

currant 31 

Cakes, currant and raisin, ch'p 31 

date 32 

Cake, devil's 37 

domino ■ 32 

drop 35 

eccles 46 

English brides' 31 

Christmas 31 

" fruit 31 

\\ moss 40 

rock 40 

" seed pound 28 

farina 57 



PAGE 

Cake, fig 32 

filbert 32 

Cakes, flannel 125 

French coffee 117 & 118 

Cake, French fruit 31 

fruit 30 

Genoa pound 28 

Genoise sponge 30 

German apple 117 

" cheese 117 

Cakes. German pan 125 

graham 125 

griddle, Boston 125 

" corn 125 

rice 125 

Cake, harlequin 37 

hoe 123 

honey 35 

" best 36 

Cakes, hotel griddle 124 

Cake, Japanese ,39 

Johnny 121 

Cakes, lady 29 

large tart 33 

layer, notes on 32 

Madeira 28 

Cake, Madison fruit 31 

Cake making 26 

Milanese 38 

marble 32 

mixture for steamed fruit 

pudding 57 

Napoleon 45 

Neapolitan 37 

New Year's 38 

Cakes, New York butter 121 

" pound 28 

Cake, noodle 59 

nut 32 

oatmeal 141 

Cakes, old time pound 27 

ornamenting large 47 

other fruit 117 

Cake, pan, Berlin 119 

patience 42 

peanut 32 

pecan 32 

pistachio 32 

plain Genoa pound 28 

plain sponge 30 

potato cream 117 

" pan 125 

Cakes, pound 27 

puffpaste, large 46 

Cake, punch 37 

Queen 35 

Raisin 31 

Cakes, raisin, plain 32 

rice 61 

rock 40 

Cake, sago 62 

Savarin 46 

Scotch 35 

silver 29 

Cakes.small, fancy, from sponge 

mixtures 37 

Cake, Spanish 28 

Cakes, Spanish pound 28 

spice 36 

sponge 29 

Cake, sponge 30 

" pound 29 

Cakes, sultana currant 33 

Cake, sunshine 30 

tapioca 62 

Cakes, use of colors in icing... 23 

Cake, use of crumbs and left- 
over 43 

vanilla cream 117 

vermicelli 59 

walnut 32 

Cakes, wedding 31 

wheat 125 

white 29 

" fruit 32 

" mixtures for 32 

wine 28 

wholewheat 125 

yellow layer 32 

California punch 90 

Candies, casting into starch 

prints 132 

crystallizing 133 

and fruits, crystallizing... 133 

Candy drops, hard 129 



c 

PAGB 

CandT. Japanese cocoanut 130 

maKingand miscellaneous 

recipes 128 

nut.fivekinds 130 

striped stick 128 

vanilla cream 131 

Cannelons 75&77 

a la creme 4S&7S 

Cantaloup ice 86 

Caramels, chocolate 131 

chocolate nut 131 

cream 131 

Caramel custard. French 70 

fruits in 136 

icecream 83 

Caramels, maple 131 

nut 131 

Caramel nut cream 14 

Caramels, opera 131 

rose 131 

strawberry 131 

vanilla 131 

Cardinal punch 90 

sauce so 

Carmencita icecream «6 

Carmine color 7 

Carraway buns 115 

Carrot puddine, English 141 

Cases, patty 15 

Casseling 109 

Casting candies in starch prints 132 

Ca ta w ba cup 89 

Caterers'price-list 146 

stardard ice cream 82&83 

Cats' tongues 4i 

Causes of waste bread 144 

Cave, ice 78 

Celestine, omelet 75 

Centers, marchpane cream 134 

Champagne jelly 71 

punch 00 

Chantilly baskets 38 & 136 

cortjeille 74 

cornet 75 

Charlotte with almonds 68 

of apples 53 

Windsor S3 

apricot 53 & 07 

Bellevue 68 

with chocolate. German 

style 67 

glace 68&()4 

Charlottes, large and small 66 

Charlotte with macaroons 68 

with meringue 68 

Neapolitan 67 

with nuts 68 

nut meat 67 

peach 60&67 

Ponce ue Leon 68 

raspberry 67 

russe 66 

" incases 67 

■' chantilly 67 

" crust paste, yellow.. 12 

white... 13 

" frozen 68 

" German mixture 67 

•' mixture 66 

strawberry 67 

Chartreuse punch W 

Chaudeau ..•;• 4? 

Cheap black molasses fruit 

cakes 3i 

gelatin icing 25 

raisin and currant cakes. 31 

Cheese cake, German Ii7 

cakes, standard, mixture. 23 

custard tarts 22 

pudding 00 

soufHe 00 

sticks IH 

straws H3 

tarts 22 

" German 21 

Chelsea buns W8 

tarts 21 

Cherries, brandy 142 

compoteof 5 

Cherry ice 8S 

jam 3 

jelly 3 

Cherries (meringue)..... 44 

preserved crushed 3 

Cherry pudding, steamed s6 



PACE 

Cherry roll, baked 56 

steamed -56 

sauce, cold si 

Chestnut icecream 84 

Chestnuts, salted 140 

Chewing taffy „ 130 

Chicago French bread 103 

Irish bread 106 

Quaker bread los 

Children zwieback, Hamburg. 116 

Chocolate Bavarian cream 68 

blanc mange 69 

caramels 131 

cornstarch pudding 04 

cream 69 

Chocolates, cream 134 

Chocolate cream fondant 134 

cream fritters 76 

icing 25 

" pie 18 

'• roll 36 

" sauce 50 

custard pie 19 

drops 42 

eclairs 75 

farina pudding. 63 

frappe 88&89 

glace 92 

icing 24 

" boiled 24 

icecream 83 

" " (without cream) 83 

" Porto Rico 83 

leckerlets 36 

macaroons 43 

nut caramels 131 

" cream 14 

pudding 55 

" Prince of Wales. 65 

sauce, cold 51 

sherbet 88 

souffle 42&54 

tourte, Vienna 34 

wafers 41 

Christmas cake 31 & 118 

" English 31 

Cinnamon buns 114 

cake 117 

tartlets 22 

Citron cake 31 

to preserve 140 

pudding, steamed 56 

Claret cup 89 

frappe 89 

punch 91 

wine sauce with sago 50 

Clean raisins and currants, to. 140 

Clear white wine sauce so 

Cobbler, apple 53 

peach 60 

Cochineal color 7 

Cocoanut buns 115 

candy, Japanese 130 

cream balls 130 

pie 18 

custardpie 19 

filling 14 

ice 140 

macaroons 43 

pudding. 55 

sherbet 140 

sponge taffy 130 

steeples 43 

suetpudding 56 

Coffee cakes 116 

cake, almond 117 

dough, Vienna 117 

cakes. French 117 & 118 

cake, raisin 117 

streusel 116 

" standard dough for 114 
cakes and sweet rolls, 

sponge for 107 

cream 69 

eclairs 75 

extract for creams&glaces 93 

frappe 88&89 

glace 89&93 

icecream 83 

parfait 94 

punch 92 

Cold apricot sauce si 

cabinet pudding 63 

cherry sauce 51 

chocolate sauce 51 



C 159 

PAGE 

Cold, compote of fruit s 

" oranges and 

bananas s 

compote of strawberries. 6 

cornstarch pudding 63 

cream sauce 51 

meringue paste 12 

peach sauce 51 

puddings and side dishes. 63 

raspberry sauce 51 

rice with fruits 64 

sabayon sauce 51 

savarin pudding 75 

sponge roll with cream or 

fruit 74 

strawberry sauce 51 

College pudding 56 

Colors ,.. 7 

Colored sugar 8 

Columbia bread 104 

glace 93 

icecream 96 

pudding, frozen 65 

rolls 112 

Combinations, ice cream 94 

Combination jellies 73 

Commercial ice cream 82 

Compote of apples, baiied 4 

of apples, sliced 4 

of apricots 5 

of baked apples 4 

of bananas, oranges and 

cocoanut.... 5 

of blueberries s 

of cherries 5 

cold, oranges & bananas. 5 

" strawberries 6 

of cranberries 5 

of currants 5 

of dried prunes s 

of fresh prunes s 

of fruits 4 

of " forms 72 

of gooseberries s 

of mixed fruits 72 

of oranges 6 

of peaches 5 

of pears 5 

of pineapple 5&6 

of plums. 5 

of quinces s 

of raspberries 5 

of rhuoarb 5 

sliced apples 4 

of strawberries 5 

of white cherries 5 

of whole apples 4 

Compressed yeast 99 

Conde tarts 21 

Condes, Bourbon 43 

Condensed cream & milk, use of 14I 

Cookies, sugar 38 

Corebeille a la chantilly .... 38 & 74 
Corn bread. New Orleans, 

yeast raised 123 

bread. Southern (family) . 123 

griddle cakes 125 

mufflns 121 

pone. Southern 123 

Cornstarch blanc mange 64 

pudding 55 & 64 

chocolate 64 

cold 63 

Cornet chantilly 75 

Cornets of fruit 75 

to make 40 

Cornucopia w. whipped cream 75 

Cottage pudding 55 

pudding, apple 53 

peach 60 

Cough drops 129 

CraBapple jam 3 

," . jelly 3 

Cranberries, compote of 5 

Cranberry jelly 3 

pie, 17 

roll 56 

Cream almonds 132 

Creams, almond or nut 134 

Cream balls, cocoanut 130 

Bavarian 68 

" in layers 68 

Breads, Vienna 104 

Cake, potato 117 

" vanilla 117 



leo c 

PACK 

Cream candy, vanilla 131 

caramels 131 

caramel icing 24 

centers, marchpane 134 

chocolate. 69 

" Bavarian 68 

chocolates 134 

coffee 69 

custard 70 

drops 132 & 134 

" vanilla 42 

Esmeralda 135 

fillings for pies, tarts, and 

calies 14 

filling, Vienna 15 

fondant, chocolate 134 

Creams, French 69&82 

Cream', French, w. apricots 70 

" " benedictine 70 

" " chartreuse. 70 

"fruit 69 

" " liQUors 70 

" " maraschino 70 

" " peaches.... 70 

" raspberries 70 

" " str'wb'rries 70 

" vanilla 69 

fritters 76 

" almond 76 

" chocolate 76 

" nut 76 

Creams, fruit, frozen individu'l 97 
and ices, storing and keep- 

ingof 79 

Cream meringue 74 

& milk, condensed, use of 141 

Creams, opera 131 

pastry 15 

Cream peanuts 132 

pies 18 

" w, preserved fruits... 18 

pudding. German 57 

puffs, Boston 37 

" " w. whipped 

cream 75 

puff filling 15 

" paste 13 

raspberry Bavarian 68 

rolls 45&75 

roll almond 54 

sauce, chocolate so 

cold 51 

" English so 

with rum.. 49 

" lemon 49 

'• orange so 

vanilTa S0&51 

" wine 49 

slices 45 

squares. Neapolitan 135 

tutti fruitti 135 

strawberry Bavarian 68 

Tortoni 69 

vanilla Bavarian 68 

waffles with sour cream or 

buttermilk 124 

water 15 

whipped, w. fruit. In cases 70 

Cremes bavarois 68 

Creme bavarois, panachee 68 

Francais au cafe 69 

" chocolat 69 

" macedoine 69 

" marasQUin 70 

" peches 70 

" vanille 69 

de menthe punch 91 

de nymphe punch 91 

de noyeau 142 

ren verse, caramel 70 

yvette punch 91 

Crisps, vanilla 40 

Croquante, French 42 

Croquant pas'e 12 

" wafers, Swedish 41 

Croquettes ice cream 95 

Cross buns, hot 114 

Croutes aux fruits 77 

Crullers with baking powder.. 119 

" French 119 

Cruller paste. French 13 

Crumbs, use of 144 

Crumb griddle cakes 141 

tarts, German 23 

Crumpets wi''h baking powder 120 



C-D 

PAGE 

Crumpets, English 119&120 

Crushed fruits and compotes 

of fruits in forms 72 

raspberries, pres'rv'd eld 4 
strawberries, preserved 

cold 4 

Crusts, fried, with fruit 77 

Crystallized fruit diamonds 134 

Crystallizingcandiesand fruits 133 

Cuilliere, biscuit 37 

Cumberland pudding 56 

Cup, American 86 

Burgundy and port wine. . 89 

cakes 35 

Catawba ' 89 

claret 89 

custard with almonds, .... 70 
" with chocolate... 70 

" " coffee 70 

" " lemon rind.. 70 

"■ " nuts 70 

" " orange rind. 70 

" " Tanilla 70 

Lipton 87 

Louisiana 87 

St.Jacques 87 

Cups, tutti fruitti ices in 86 

Cup, Washington 87 

Curacoa glace 93 

" punch 91 

Currant biscuits 122 

buns 114 

cake 31 

" sultana 32 

Currants, compote of s 

Currant ginger oread 36 

ice 86 

jam 2 

jelly......: 3 

and raisin cakes, cheap.. 31 
Currants and raisins, to clean. 140 

Currant sauce 50 

Custard, baked 70 

boiled 70 

cream 70 

cup. with almonds 79 

" " chocolate 70 

" " coffee 70 

** *' lemon rind 70 

" ■■ nuts 70 

" " orange rind 70 

" " vanilla 70 

French caramel 70 

frozen 82 

pie 19 

pie paste 11 

pudding, almond 54 

" bread 54 

" farina 56 

" Indian, New Or- 

leansstyle 58 

pudding, rice 60 

sauce 49 

shredded wheat biscuit: .. 54 

side dishes 70 

tapioca 62 

Dairy cream pies 19 

Darioles 22 

Date cakes 32 

" pudding, steamed 56 

Dates, stuffed 140 

Decorating, macaroon 43 

" whipped cream 

sauce for 51 

Decorations, meringu6 137 

Delmonico ice cream 83 

Desdemonas 38 & 75 

Deviled almonds 140 

Devils cake 37 

Diamonds, crystallized fruit. .. 134 

Diplomat pudding, steamed s6 

Diplomatic ice cream 95 

" pudding, baked s6 

Dodgers 123 

Domino cakes 32 

Dough, bun 114 

making the loi 

mixtures, milk in 102 

for pretzels, standard 114 

rusk 114 

sour, to start from yeast- 
raised dough 108 

and sponge loi 

standard 114 

for coffee cake, 



D-E 

PA(» 

Gugelhupf, Stollen and 

Zwieback 114 

Dough, straight loi 

Vienna oread, straight. ... 104 

" coffee cake 117 

Doughlng 101 

Doughnuts with baking powder 119 

buttermilk. 119 

sour milk 119 

Dresden baba 47 

cream meringue pie.. 19 

Drop cake 35 

Drops, American gum 133 

anise 42 

chocolate 42 

cough 129 

cream 132 & 134 

English gum 133 

gum 133 

hard candy 129 

hoarhound 129 

lemon 129 

liquor 133 

meringue 45 

mint 129 

peppermint 42 

plantation 129 

raspberry 129 

rose 42 

strawberry 129 

vanilla 42 

" cream 42 

Dry yeast cake 100 

Duchesse biscuit 41 

wafers 41 

Duff, plum 139 

Dumpling, baked apple 52 

baked peach to 

paste u 

steamed apple 53 

" peach 60 

Easter eggs 3B 

,,,, ' with cream 75 

" (meringues) 44 

Eccles cake 46 

Eclairs 37 

chocolate 75 

coffee 75 

vanilla 75 

Economies, bread, in hotel 143 

Eggs, Easter 38 

" with cream 75 

" (meringue) 44 

liming 139 

muffins 122 

nogg,. frozen 92 

preserved.lwater-glass 139 

preserving 139 

Egg-wash and other glazings for 

bread, rolls and buns... 126 

Electric brown bread 107 

Emperor's roll no 

English apple pie 17 

apple pudding. 52 

Bath buns lis 

brandy sauce 49 

bride's cake 31 

carrot pudding 141 

cheesetarts 22 

Christmas cake 31 

cottage bread 106 

cream sauce 50 

" " with rum 49 

crumpets 119 & 120 

fruitcake 31 

gum drops 133 

moss cake 40 

muffins 119 

plum pudding..! S9 

rice pudding with fruit. ... 61 

rock cake 40 

rum sauce 49 

seed pound cake 26 

suet pudding 6t 

Esmeralda cream 135 

Eve's pudding 56 

Everton taffy 129 

Extract, coffee, for cream and 

glaces 93 

lemon 6 

maraschino 142 

Extracts of noyeau 142 

Extract, orange 6 

raspberry 7 

of vanilla t 



F-a 



i6i 



PAGE 
Family corn bread, Southern.. 123 
Fanchonettesaux amandes.... 22 

aux chocolates 22 

auxfruits 22 

vanille 22 

Fancy rolls and buns 113 

" scones 121 

Farina cake 57 

custard puddine 56 

fritters 76 

fruit puddine 57 

Napolitaine 57 

pudding, chocolate 63 

Fat, fifures and socles from 138 

Favorite punch qi 

Ferment, potato 100 

Fig cakes 32 

" pudding, steamed 57 

Figures and socles from fat, 

paraffin, stearin & wax. 138 

Filbert cake 32 

icecream 84 

macaroons 43 

wafers 41 

Filling, almond 14 

almond and nut cream... 14 

cocoanut 14 

Fillings, cream, for pies, tarts 

cakes 14 

Filling, cream puff 15 

lemon butter 14 

■' plain 14 

nut 14 

orange 14 

" butter 14 

Fillings, pie and tart Q 

Filling, pineapple 14 

plain lemon 14 

tartlet crumb 15 

Viennacream 15 

Finger rolls iii 

Flannel cakes 125 

Floats, fruit 74 

Floating island : 74 

Floradora buns 115 

cream pie iQ 

•" roll 37 

meringue 57 

pudding, steamed 57 

slices 46 

tartlets 22 

Florentines 45 

Flour, gluten «8 

graham 08 

rye «B 

Flowers and leaves from boiled 

sugar 137 

of royal Icing 137 

Flummery 65 

Flutes 109 

Foaming sauce 40 

Fondant 128 

chocolate cream 134 

icing 23 

" imitation 24 

Fours, petits 43 

Frankfort macaroons 43 

rolls 112 

Frappe, chocolate 88 & 89 

claret „ 89 

coffee 88&;8q 

lemon 

orange 

pineapple 

raspberry 

strawberry 

whitewine 89 

Frascati glace 04 

Freezers for brine freezing.,... 81 

Freezing process 81 

French apple pudding 52 

baba 47 

breads I03 

bread, Chicago 103 

New York 103 

" spongefor 108 

brioche io9 

caramel custard 7o 

creams 69 & 82 

cream with apricots 70 

" benedictine.. 70 
'• ■■ chartreuse... 70 

■• fruit 69 

" " liquors 70 



PAGE 

French cream w. maraschino. . 7° 

" peaches 7° 

" " raspberries,. 70 
" " strawberries 70 

■■ tarts 23 

coffee cakes 117 & 118 

croquante 42 

crullers 119 

cruller paste 13 

fritter paste 13 

fruitcake 31 

icecream 82 

macarooos 43 

meringue 12 

rolls 109 

split bread, Kinsley's 103 

" loaves 103 

" rolls 109 

tea roll 118 

toast 77 

tourte, creme 34 

vanitlacream 69 

waffles 124 

Fried crusts with fruit 77 

' " waffle paste 13 

Fritters, almond cream 76 

apple 76 

" princess 76 

banana 76 

batter for, plain 14 

berry 76 

cabinet 76 

chocolate cream 76 

cream 76 

farina 7f> 

German 77 

noodle 77 

nut cream ^b 

orange 76 

peacn 76 

pear 7b 

pineapple 76 

puff paste 77 

Queen 76 

" with almonds 75 

rice 76 

ring 76 

sago 76 

savarin 77 

and sweet omelets 75 

vermicelli 77 

Frozen bananas and oranges.. 86 

charlotte russe 68 

Columbia pudding 65 

custard 82 

egg nogg 02 

mint julep 90 

pineapple pudding, royale 65 

plum pudding 66 

pudding, Stanley 65 

punches 89 

wines 91 

F-uit, baskets of, with whip- 

pedcream ; 75 

brandy 142 

bread. Southern 124 

cakes 30 

cake, American 31 

C£:kes, black molasses, chp 31 

cake, English 31 

" French 31 

" Madison 31 

cakes, other 117 

" white 32 

Fruits & candies, crystallizing. 133 

in caramel 136 

crystallizing. 133 

Fruit, cold compote of 5 

Fruits with cold rice 64 



compote of. 



mixed 72 

Fruit, cornets of 75 

creams, frozen individual 97 
Fruits crushed, and compotes 

of, in forms 72 

Fruit custard pies 20 

diamonds, crystallized... 134 

floats 74 

glace 92 

icing; 24 

jellies 3 

" and preserves i 

macedoine of 72 

meringue pie 17 

pastes for filU'eTy'r cakes is 



PACK 

Fruits, preserved crushed, with- 
out sugar J 

Fruit, preserve in water 142 

pudding, baked Indian.... 58 

farina 57 

" steamed 57 

Indian.. 58 

salads 5 

salad glace 86 

sauces 50 

sauce from all fruits 50 

slices 46 

Fruits, to sterilize 142 

Fruit syrups 6 

tartlets 20 

timbale. comptesse 62 

Fruits, use of in cakes & buns. 125 
" " glucose in pre- 
serving. 139 

Fruitwater ice 85 

with whipped cream in 

cases 70 

Fudge 130 

Gates ajar 4i 

Gelatin jellies 71 

Gelee, Muscovite 73 

pousse cafe 71 

Gems, graham ii2 

Genoa pound cake 28 

" " " plain 28 

Genoiseice cream 95 

spongecake 30 

Genuine Vienna bread 104 

Georgia ice cream 95 

German almond buns 114 

almond strips 39 

apple cake 117 

brodtourte 34 

brodchen no 

butter roll iii 

cheesecake 117 

tarts 21 

cream pudding. 57 

crumb tarts 23 

fritters 77 

kranz kuchen 118 

lemon pudding 57 

mixture, charlotte russe,. 67 

noodle pudding 58 

nudle paste. 13 

orange pudding 57 

pan cakes 125 

poppy-seed tarts 22 

rice pudding 60 

short paste 11 

split roll Ill 

stollen 118 

streusel 115 

" buns IIS 

water roll no 

Ginger and lemon sherbet 87 

muffins 122 

snaps 39 

Gingerbread 36 

Ourrant 36 

Southernt 36 

Glace, anisette 93 

biscuit 93 

" souffle 04 

" vanilla 93 

Carmencita 96 

charlotte 68 & 94 

chocolate 92 

coffee 89&93 

Columbia 93 

curacoa 93 

frascati 94 

fruit 92 

" salad 86 

Italian souffle 94 

Louisiana 96 

macaroon 93 

magnolia 96 

Manhattan, with peaches 93 

maraschino 93 

marron 84&93 

Martin , 93 

meringue 96 

mousse, cafe 93 

" chocolate 92 

auxfruits 92 

Neapolitan 93 

pistachio 93 

royale 96 

tortoni 94 



X62 



Q-H-l 



PACK 

dace, vanilla 92 

Waldorf , «6 

Glazings for bread, rolls & buns 126 
Glucose, use of in p.eservine 

fruits 135 

Gluten bread 106 

flour 98 

Gooseberries, compote of 5 

Gooseberry 'jam 2 

pie 17 

preserve 2 

Graham bread from sponge.. .. 106 

bread, straight douBh 106 

cakes 12s 

flour 98 

eems 112 

mufhns 121 

rolls 112 

Granitos 87 

Granito a la Porto Rico 88 

Grape fruit ice 86 

" w. maraschino ice. 86 
" peel, to preserve... 6 

Grape ice 85 

jam 2 

jelly 3 

Grapes (meringue) 44 

Grapenut ice cream 84 

Green color 8 

Greengage pluin jam 3 

Griddle cakes, Boston 125 

corn 125 

" " crumb 141 

" " hotel 124 

" rice 125 

Gugelhupf, plain 47 

almond 119 

American 119 

standard dough for 114 

Gum drops 133 

" " American 133 

■■ English 133 

Gum paste 11 

Half rye bread 109 

Hamburg children zwieback. .. 116 

rolls no 

rundstuck no 

zwieback ". . . 116 

Hard candy drops 129 

sauce 51 

Harlequin cake 37 

icecream 95 

Health breads 106 

High-round bread. New York.. 106 
High altitudes, baking cakes in 141 

Hoarhoand drops 129 

sticks 129 

Hoe cake 123 

Holiday ice cream 96 

Holland waffles 124 

Home-made breads 105 

bread w.compress'd yeast 105 

"ferment 105 

Honey cake 35 

cake, best 36 

nougat 131 

wafers 41 

Hot-cross buns 114 

Hot puddings 52 

Hotel breads, special 112 

griddle cakes 124 

pastry room in 126 

waffles ■■•■ 124 

How to line a mold with jelly.. 66 

Hungarian zwieback 116 

Ice, apricot 85 

cantaloup 86 

cave 78 

cherry 85 

cocoanut 140 

Ices and creams, storing and 

keepingof 79 

Ice, currant 86 

grape 85 

grapefruit 86 

lemon 85 

Ices, macedoine 86 

Ice. maraschino 86 

melon 86 

orange 8s 

peacli 85 

pineapple 85 

plum 85 

Ices, preserved crushed fruits 

for 3 



PAGE 

Ice, raspberry 

to save in hot weatlifer 80 

strawberry 85 

Ices, tutti trutti 86 

" " in cups 86 

Ice cream, Alencon! 95 

almond 84 

" apple 84 

apricot.. 84 

baked 66 

banana 

bisque 84 

" brine storage for.... 81 

" brown bread 84 

■■ caramel 83 

carmencita 96 

" caterers' standard. 83 
" caterers' standard, 

bestquality 82 

Ice cream, chestnut 84 

chocolate 83 

" (with'utcr'm) 83 

" Porto Rico.,. 83 

coffee ■ 83 

Columbia 96 

combinations 94 

commercial 82 

croquettes 95 

Delmonico 83 

diplomatic 95 

Easter 97 

filbert 84 

Fourth of July 97 

French 82 

with fruit 84 

Genoise 95 

Georgia 95 

grapenut 84 

harlequin 95 

Italian 81 

lemon 83 

with liquors 85 

Louisiana 96 

magnolia 96 

making 78 

Manhattan 95 

marcellina 96 

marcipan 95 

marron 95 

melon 95 

Ice creams, meringue cases for 44 

Ice cream, metropolitan 95 

Neapolitan 81&94 

nesselrode 94 

New York 82 

nougat 83 

" nut 84 

" nut surprise, nea- 

politan 95 

Ice cream, orange 83 

Parisian 96 

peach 84 

" a la Melba 96 

Philadelphia 82 

pineapple 84 

pistachio 84 

plain 82 

" cold process.. 82 

Porto Rico 95 

a la reine 95 

Roman 95 

royal 96 

St. Patrick's 97 

St. Valentine's 97 

Saratoga 94 

shredded wheat 84 

Siberian 83 

strawberry 84 

suggestion? for holi- 
days & special occasions 99 

Icecream tart 06 

tea 83 

tortoni 84 

tutti frutU 06 

vanilla 83 

virgin 83 

wafers 40 

Waldorf 96 

Wash'ton's birthd'y 97 

Iced pudding with strawberries 66 

Iced punch 89 

Icing, almond paste 25 

boiled chocolate 24 

butter 25 

cakes, use of colors In..., 2s 



I-J-K-L 

PAGE 

Icing, chocolate 24 

" cream 25 

cream caramel 24 

flowers of royal 137 

fondant 23 

fruit 24 

gelatin, cheap 25 

imitation fondant 24 

marshmallow 24 

royal 24 

scroll and net-work 

with 137 

transparent 24 

Vienna cream 25 

water 24 

Imitation fondant icing 24 

souffle 94 

Imperial punch 90 

Indian custard pudding. New 

Orleans 58 

pudding, baked 57 

fruit pudding, baked 58 

steamed.,.. 58 

Individual peach mermgue 74 

shortcake 73 

Irish, bread, Chicago 106 

" split loaves 106 

Italian ice cream 81 

meringue; 12 

souffle glace 94 

Jam, apple 2 

apricot 3 

blackberry 2 

cherry 3 

crabapple 3 

currant 2 

gooseberry 2 

grape 2 

greengage plum 3 

peach 3 

quince 2 

raspberry 2 

strawberry 2 

Japanese cake 39 

" cocoanut candy 130 

Jelly, apple 3 

apricot 3 

bar le due 2 

champagne 71 

cherry 3 

crabapple 3 

cranberry 3 

currant 3 

Jellies, fruit 3 

" and preserves "i 

gelatin 71 

Jelly, grape 3 

how to line a mold with... 66 

lemon 72 

orange 72 

peach 3 

plum 3 

powders and junkets 73 

punch 72 

quince 3 

raspberry 3 

" with gelatin 72 

ribbon' 71 

roll 36 

Russian 73 

sago 6s 

stock 71 

strawberry, with gelatin.. 72 

tapioca 65 

Jellies, wine & liquor, w. fruit,. 71 

enny Lind pudding 58 

ocos bread 103 

bhnny cake 121 

umbles. almond 40 

" New York 40 

Junkets 73 

Kaisersemmel no 

Keeping and storing of creams 

and ices 79 

Kinsley's French split bread.. 103 

Kirschwasser punch 91 

Knickerbocker punch 91 

Kranz kuchen, German 118 

Krapfen, Berlin 119 

Kuchen, German kranz 118 

" streusel ii5 

Lady cakes 29 

Ladyfingers 37 

Ladyfinger mixture 30 

Lalla Rookh punch 02 



PAGE 

Laneue de chat biscuit 41 

Laree calces, ornamentinE 47 

meringue cases for tourtes 

and ice creams 

puff paste calies. 46 

and small cliarlottes 66 

tartcalies 33 

Layer caltes, fruit pastes for 

filling IS 

calces, notes on 32 

yellow 32 

Leaves and flowers from boiled 

sugar , 137 

Leckerlets, chocolate 36 

Leckerly, Nuremberg 36 

Lemon butter lilling. 14 

cream sauce 49 

drops IS? 

extract 6 

frappe 88 

and ginger sherbet 87 

ice 85 

icecream 83 

jelly 72 

meringue pie 18 

" pudding 58 

peel, to preserve 6 

pie, Boston 17 

pudding, German 57 

steamed s8 

sauce so 

sherbet 87 

snaps 3Q 

snow pudding 64 

souffle S8 

suet pudding 61 

tartlets 23 

and tea sherbet 87 

Lime water, use of in baking.. 141 

Liming eggs I39 

Linzer tourte 34 

Liptoncup 87 

Liquor drops 133 

Loaves, French split 103 

" Irishsplit 106 

Long sand wich rolls 112 

Louisiana cup 87 

glace 96 

icecream 96 

Lozenges 132 

Macaroni pudding 59 &140 

Macaroons from almond paste. 42 

angelica 43 

chocolate 43 

cocoanut 43 

Macaroon decorating 43 

Macaroons, filbert 43 

Frankfort 43 

French 43 

Macaroon glace 93 

Macaroons, orange 43 

Macaroon paste for fancy 

macaroons 42 

Macaroon slices 43 

Macaroons, souffle 43 

Macaroon tarts 21 

Macaroons, walnut 43 

Macedoineof fruit 72 

ices 86 

salad 5 

sauce so 

Maderia cakes 28 

Madison fruitcake 31 

Magnolia glace 96 

" icecream 96 

Maiden yeast 09 

Making the dough ini 

Malt bread 106 

" yeast.... .-■■ 100 

Manhattan flace with peaches 93 

" ice cream OS 

Manipulation of bread-making 

recipes 126 

Maple caramels 131 

syrupsauce 50 

Maraschino extract 142 

place 93 

ice 86 

" grape fruit with 86 

Marble cakes 32 

Marcellina ice cream 96 

Marchpane cream centers 134 

Marcipan 12 

icecream 95 

Marguerite punch 90 



M 

PAGE 

Marigolds 45 

Marmalade, apple 2 

orange 3 

pineapple 3 

Marron glace 84&93 

■' icecream 95 

Marshm? How icing 24 

Martha Washington buns lis 

" " pie 19 

Martin glace 93 

Maryland beaten biscuits 122 

Maserene tart (Mazarene) 20 

Melon ice 8f 

Icecrram 9; 

rinds, to preserve t 

Meringue. American 75 

animals 44 

apples' 44 

apple .•-. 52 

banana pudding S5 

baskets 44 

" w. whipped cream 74 

blackberry s5 

blueberry S5 

cases for tourtes and ice 
creams, large and small 44 

cherries 44 

cream (creme) 74 

decorations 137 

drops. 45 

Floradora 57 

French 12 

glace 96 

grapes 44 

individual peach 74 

Italian 12 

mushrooms 44 

panache 96 

paste 12 

peach, Manhattan 60 

pears 44 

pies 18 

pineapple 74 

pudding, lemon 58 

" orange 58 

slices 45 

souffle 42 

strawberries 44&74 

Swiss, peach 72 

tourte 34 

vacherine 75 

Metropolitan ice cream 95 

" tarts 22 

Metternich biscuit 43 

Mikado punch 91 

Milanese cake 38 

Milk bread 104 

and cream, use of con- 
densed 141 

in dough mixtures 102 

punch 92 

rolls. Vienna no 

Mincemeat 20 

Mince pie 20 

Mint drops 129 

julep, frozen 90 

sherbet 87 

Mirlitons 22 

Miscellaneous recipes 130 

Mixed fruits, compote 72 

Mixture, cake, for steamed fruit 

pudding. 57 

charlotte russe 66 

for cheesecakes, stand'rd 23 

Mixtures, dough, milk in 102 

Mixture for ladyfingers 30 

Mixtures, white, for cakes 32 

Mock mince pie 20 

Molasses, black, fruit cakes. 

cheap 31 

Molasses taffy 129 

Mold, how to line with jelly. .. . 66 

Molds, plaster of paris 138 

Montevideos 39 

Moss cake, English, 40 

Mother's bread 106 

Mousse au fruits en caisse 70 

glaceaucafe 93 

" auchocolat 92 

" aux fruits 92 

Napolitaine 93 

Mousseline sauce 51 

Muffins, corn 121 

egg 122 

English 119 



AI-N-O 



163 



PAGE 

MnfSns, ginger i2j 

graham 121 

popover 121 

rice 121 

rye 122 

Sally Lunn 120 

" . " w.bakingpwdr 121 

sDiced 122 

wheat.. 121 

yeast raised 121 

Muscovite gelee , 73 

Mushrooms (meringue) 44 

Napfkuchen, Berlin 47 

Napoleon cakes 45 

Neapolitan cake 37 

cream squares 13s 

riace 93 

icecream 81&94 

pudding. 58 

Negritos 33 

Negro nougatinas 33 

Nelson pudding. 58 

Nesselrode ice cream 94 

" pudding 6s 

Net and scroll work with royal 

icing 137 

New England bread w, sponge. 105 
xr" ^ ." "straight dough 105 

New Orleans corn bread, yeast 

raised 123 

New Orleans rolls iit 

Newport punch 9a 

New Years cake 38 

New York butter cakes :.. 121 

" French breads 103 

■ high-round bread. .. 106 

Ice cream 82 

" jumbles 50 

" poundcakes 28 

Nonpareil pudding 58 

Noodle cake 59 

fritters 77 

paste 13 

pudding. German s8 

Notes on layer cakes 32 

Nougat, almond, for small and 
large baskets and other 

ornamental work 13a 

honey 131 

icecream 83 

sugar work 136 

Nougatinas , 33 & 132 

negro 33 

Noyeau, creme de 142 

extracts of 142 

punch 91 

Nuremberg leckerly 36 

Nut or almond creams 134 

bread 124 

cakes 32 

candy > 130 

" fivekinds 130 

caramels 131 

chocolate 131 

cream, caramel 14 

chocolate 14 

" fritters 76 

" roll 36 

filling 14 

icecream 84 

meat charlotte 67 

surprise ice cream, Nea- 
politan 9S 

Oaten bread 124 

Oatmeal cake 141 

Old time pound cake 27 

Omelet celestine 75 

" souffle, American 75 

Omelets, sweet, and fritters... 7S 

Opera buns iis 

caramels 131 

creams 131 

slices 46 

Other fruit cakes 117 

Oranges & bananas, cold com- 

poteof s 

Oranges and bananas, frozen.. 86 

Orange butter filling 14 

Oranges compote of (> 

Orange cream sauce so 

extract 6 

fillin?. 14 

flower sherbet 88 

frappe 88 

fritters 76 



164 



O-P 



PAGE 

Orange ice 85 

icecream 83 

jelly 72 

macaroons 43 

marmalade 3 

meringue pie 18 

" pudding 58 

peel, to preserve 6 

pudding, German 57 

" steamed 58 

sauce so 

sherbet 87 

snow pudding 64 

souffle S4&S8 

suet pudding 61 

tourte 33 

Oriental punch 91 

sherbet 88 

Orleans pudding 6s 

punch 90 

Ornamental sugar worlt 13S 

Ornamenting large calces 47 

Othellos 37&7S 

Ovens and baking heat loi 

Pain Swiss 113 

Panache 94 

Bavarois creme 68 

meringue 96 

Pan bread, sponge for 108 

Pan cake, apple 125 

" Berlin 119 

cakes, German 125 

cake, potato 125 

Pans, bread 143 

Paraffin, figures & socles from, 138 

Parfait, coffee (a u cafe) 94 

Parisian ice cream 96 

Parisiennes 45 

Paris roll 37 

Parker House roll in 

Paste, almond 12 

macaroons from 42 
bottom, for large cakes & 

layers 11 

charlotte russe crust 12 

" white 13 

cream puff 13 

croquant 12 

custard pie 11 

dumpling, rolled 11 

steamed 11 

suet II 

French cruller 13 

fritter 13 

" meringue 12 

fried waffle 13 

German nudle 13 

gum II 

Italian meringue 12 

macaroon for fancy maca- 
roons 42 

meringue 12 

cold 12 

noodle 13 

Pastes, pie .- 10 

Paste, pie, bottom crust n 

" topcrust II 

puff 10 

quick 10 

Roman case 13 

short, for tarts 11 

three-quarters 10 

Pastillage 11 

Pastry creams 15 

and pie making 9 

room, the 127 

in hotel 126 

steamer for 49 

serving of 127 

Patience calte 42 

Patty cases 15 

" large 16 

Peaches, baked 5 

Peach batter pudding 60 

Peaches, brandied 6 

brandy 142 

Peach charlotte 60 & 67 

cobbler 60 

Peaches, compote of 5 

a la conde 61 

Peach cottage pudding 60 

cream meringue pie 18 

dumplings, baked 60 

steamed 60 

fritters 76 



Peach ice 35 

icecream 

jam .'... 

jelly ^ 

a la Melba 96 

meringue, individual 74 

Manhattan 6q 

Swiss 72 

pie 17 

Peaches, preserved crushed,.. 3 

to preserve in water 142 

Peach pudding, steamed, family 

style 59 

Peaches, with rice 61 

Peach rissoles 60 

roll, baked 59 

" steamed 59 

sauce 51 

cold SI 

shortcake 74 

souffle S3 

tarts 21 

turnover 60 

Peanut cake 32 

Peanuts, cream 132 

salted 140 

Peanut taffy 130 

Pears, compote of 5 

a la conde 61 

Pear fritters 76 

Pears (meringue) 44 

Pear pie 17 

sherbet 87 

Pecan cake 32 

Peel, grape fruit, to preserve.. 6 

lemon & orange, preserv'd 6 

Peppermint drops. . , 42 

Perfect love punch 91 

Petits fours 43 

Philadelphia ice cream 82 

Philippines 75 

Pie, almond cream 18 

apple 16 

apricot 17 

banana 17 

berry 17 

Boston lemon 17 

chocolate cream 18 

custard 19 

cocoanut cream 18 

custard 19 

cranberry 17 

cream 18 

Pies, cream, w. preserved fruits 18 

custard 19 

PieSjdairy cream 19 

Pie, Dresden cream meringue. 19 

English apple 17 

Floradora cream 19 

Pies, fruit custard 20 

Pie, fruit meringue 17 

fruits, preserving of 4 

gooseberry 17 

lemon meringue 18 

Martha Washington 19 

mince 20 

mockmince 20 

a la mode 141 

orange meringue 18 

pastes 10 

paste, bottom crust 11 

custard 11 

raised, cold 13 

hot 13 

topcrust II 

and pastry making 9 

peach 17 

" meringue cream 18 

pear 17 

pineapple 17 

meringue 18 

prune 20 

pumpkin 19 

quince 17 

raisin 20 

raspberry, with whipped 

cream 18 

raspberrycream meringue 18 

rhubarb 17 

sliced apple 16 

squash 19 

strawberry cr'm meringue 18 
with whipped 

cream 18 

sweet potato i« 



PAGE PAGE 

Pie and tart fillings 9 

Pineapple compote s&fc 

filling 14 

frappe 88 

fritters 76 

ice 85 

icecream 84 

marmalade 3 

meringue 74 

pie 18 

pie 17 

pudding, royale, frozen. .. 6s 

sauce SI 

snow pudding 64 

Pistachio cake 32 

glace 93 

icecream 84 

Plain Bath buns 115 

boiled rice 60 

biins 114 

Genoa pound cake 28 

gugelhopf 47 

icecream 82 

" cold process 82 

lemon filling 14 

raisin cakes 32 

rice with fruit 61 

savarin pudding 62 

scones with buttermilk. .. 121 

spongecake 30 

tapioca pudding 6i 

Plaits 45 

Plantation drops 129 

Plaster of paris molds 138 

Plombiere D'Alencon 95 

Plums, brandy 142 

compote of s 

Plum-duff 139 

Plum ice 85 

jelly 3 

Plums, preserved crushed 3 

Plum pudding 59 

English 59 

" frozen 66 

Plymouth Rock biscuits 122 

Pocket-book roll iii 

rolls.plainmixt're III 
" " " Quickprocess iii 

Points on cake making 26 

Polonaise, baba 55 

sauce 50 

Ponce de Leon charlotte 68 

Pone 123 

' Southern corn 123 

Popcorn balls 130 

sponge taffy 131 

Popover muffins 121 

Poppy seed tarts, German 22 

Porto Rico ice cream 95 

' " punch 90 

rice qudding 61 

Portuguese tarts 21 

Port wine and Burgundy cup. .. 89 

Potato bread 106 

cream cake 117 

ferment 100 

pan cake 125 

Pound cake, English seed 28 

Genoa 28 

cakes. New York 28 

Spanish 28 

" cake, sponge 29 

Pound pudding, steamed 57 

Pralines.,.'. 132 

Preserve citron, to 140 

Preserved crushed apricots ,., 3 

crushed berries 3 

" cherries 3 

fruits w'out sugar 3 
" for sherbets 

and ices 3 

crushed peaches 3 

plums 3 

eggs, water-glass 139 

Preserves, fruit jellies, and i 

Preserve fruit in water, to 142 

Preserve, gooseberry! 2 

Preserved lemon & orange peel 6 

melon rinds 6 

Preserve peaches in water, to. 142 
rhubarb in water, to. 142 

Preserving eggs 139 

fruits, use of glucose in. .. 139 

pie fruits 4 

PressDurgh zwieback . . . . , 116 



P-Q-R 



i6s 



PAGE 

pretzels, butter ii8 

" standard dough for... 1.^4 

Price-list cateters' 14ft 

Prince of Wales punch 90 

Princess roll 37 

Prunes, dried, compote s 

" fresh, compote s 

Prune pie 20 

Pudding, Alaslca souffle 66 

Alexandra 56 

Alliance 54 

almond custard 54 

apple batter 52 

bread 52 

" cottage 53 

family styles 52 

a la reine 52 

Puddings, batter 54 

Pudding, baked diplomatic sb 

baked Indian 57 

" fruit 58 

banana meringue 55 

birds' nest 52 

biscuit 55 

Boston bread 54 

bread and butter, family 

style 54 

bread custard 54 

cabinet 55 

royale 55 

carrot, English 141 

cheese 60 

chocolate 55 

cornstarch 64 

Prince of Wal's 65 

a la Coburg 56 

cocoanut 55 

suet 56 

cold cabinet 63 

" cornstarch 63 

Puddings, cold, and side dishes 63 

Pudding, college 56 

a la comtesse 55 

cornstarch 55 & 64 

cottage 55 

peach 60 

Cumberland 56 

Eve's 56 

empress. Vienna 63 

English apple 52 

plum 59 

" rice with fruit 61 

" suet 6i 

farina chocolate 63 

custard 56 

fruit 57 

Napolitaine S7 

French apple 52 

frozen Columbia 65 

pineapple, royale . 65 

" Stanley 65 

German cream 57 

lemon 57 

noodle 58 

orange 57 

rice 60 

Puddings, hot 52 

Pudding, iced, w. strawberries 66 
Indian custard. New Or- 
leans style S8 

Jenny Lind 58 

lemon meringue 58 

snow 64 

" steamed S8 

suet 61 

macaroni 5q & 140 

Neapolitan 58 

Nelson 58 

nesselrode 65 

nonpareil 58 

orange, meringue 58 

snow 64 

steamed 58 

" suet 61 

Orleans 65 

Parisienne 55 

peach batter 60 

pineapple snow 64 

plain tapioca 61 

plum 59 

" frozen 66 

Porto Rico rice 61 

queen 58 

Queen Victoria 59 

rameQuin 60 



PAGE 

Pudding, raspberry snow 64 

a la reine 59 

Puddings, Vice 60 

Pudding, rice with apple 60 

" baked 60 

" custard 60 

" Japanese 64 

' Italienne 64 

Romanoff 59 

royal 61 

sago 61 

Puddings and sauces 49 

Pudding sauces 49 

sauce for all puddings 50 

savarin, cold 75 

*' Mazarin 62 

" Richelieu 62 

" Montmorency... 62 

" plain 62 

Spaghetti 140 

steamed cherry 56 

■ citron 56 

date 56 

" diplomat 56 

;; §,?■■■•■, 57 

Floradora 57 

fruit 57 

Indian fruit 58 

" peach, f'm'y style 59 

pound 57 

" rice and fruit 61 

strawberry snow 64 

tapioca 61 & 65 

vermicelli 59 

Vienna apple 52 

Yorkshire 63 

Puffs, Boston cream 37 

" with whip- 
ped cream 75 

Puff paste 10 

" cakes, large 46 

" " fritters 77 

" " Quick 10 

" sandwich 45 

" three-quarters 10 

Pulled bread 113 

taffies 129 

Pullman bread 104 

Pumpernickel 43 &109 

Pumpkin pie 19 

Punch, Alaska 92 

American 90 

anisette 91 

apricotine 91 

benedictine 91 

bishop 90 

bonanza 91 

cake 37 

California 90 

cardinal 90 

champagne ; 90 

chartreuse 91 

claret 91 

coffee 92 

creme de menthe 91 

creme de nymphe 91 

creme yvette.... 91 

curacoa 91 

favorite 91 

Punches, frozen 89 

Punch, iced 89 

imperial 90 

jelly 72 

au kirsch 91 

kirschwasser 91 

knickerbocker 91 

Lalla Rookh 92 

Marguerite 90 

Mikado 9i 

milk 92 

Newport 92 

noyeau 91 

oriental 91 

Orleans 90 

parfait d'amour 91 

perfect love 91 

Porto Rico 90 

Prince of Wales 90 

regent's (Regence) 90 

renaissance 90 

Roman 89 

royal 90 

rum' 90 

a la Russe 90 

Russian 90 



PAGE 

Punch, Saratoga 91 

Saxonia 90 

Siberian 92 

tourte 34 

Vienna (Viennaise) 90 

Victoria 91 

Quaker bread 105 

" " Chicago 105 

Queen biscuit 46 

cakes 35 

fritters 76 

" with almonds 76 

pudding 58 

Victoria pudding 59 

Quick puff paste 10 

Quinces, compote of s 

Quince jam 2 

jelly 3 

pie 17 

Raised pie paste, cold 13 

hot 13 

Raisin cake 31 

cakes, plain 32 

coffee cake. 117 

raisin and currant cakes, 

cheap 31 

Raisins and currants, to clean 140 

Raisin pie 20 

Ramequin pudding 60 

Rasp roll 113 

Raspberry Bavarian cream 68 

blanc-mange 69 

charlotte 67 

Raspberries, compote of 5 

Raspberry cream meringue pie 18 
Raspberries, crushed, pres'v'd 

cold 4 

Raspberry drops 129 

extract 7 

frappe 88 

ice 85 

jam 2 

jelly.... 3 

with gelatin 72 

pie with whipped cream. . 18 

sauce, cold si 

short cake 74 

1/ snowpudding 64 

Raspel brodchen 113 

Recipes, miscellaneous 139 

Red ants, remedy for 142 

Regent's punch 90 

Remedies against ants in 

bakeries 142 

Remedy for red ants 142 

Renaissance punch 90 

Renverse, creme, au caramel.. 70 

Rhubarb, compote of s 

pie 17 

to preserve in water 142 

Ribbon jelly 71 

Rice, boiled in water 60 

cakes 61 

custard pudding 60 

fritters 76 

& fruit puddings, steamed 61 

griddle cakes 125 

muffins 12I 

Neapolitan style 61 

with peaches 6i 

plain boiled 60 

with fruit 61 

pudding with apples 60 

baked 60 

" English w. fruit. . 61 

" German 60 

" Italienne 64 

" Japanese 64 

Porto Rico 61 

Rinds, watermelon 6 

Ring fritters 76 

Rissoles 45 & 77 

peach 60 

Ritter, Arme 77 

Rock cake, English 40 

Roll, Albany m 

almond cream 54 

Rolls. American m 

American Vienna, str'ight 

dough no 

Roll, baked apple 53 

;; apricot 53 

blackberry 55 

" blueberry 55 

cherry 94 



i66 



R-5 



PAGE 

Roll, baked, peach S9 

Rolls, butter in 

Roll, chocolate crea m 36 

cold sponge, with cream 

C/r fruit 74 

RolU, Columbia iiz 

Roll, cranberry 56 

Rolls, cream 4S & 75 

Roll, emperor's uo 

Rolls. Frankfort 112 

Rolls, fancy, and buns iia 

linger Iii 

Roll, Floradora cream 87 

Rolls, French 109 

split 105 

Roll. French tea 118 

German butter ni 

split Ill 

" water no 

Rolls, graham 112 

Hamburg.... no 

Roll, jelly 36 

Rolls, long sandwich 112 

milk, Vienna no 

Netw Orleans in 

Roll, nutcream 36 

Paris 3' 

Parker House in 

pocketbook in 

Rolls, " plain mixture in 

■■ Quick process in 

Roll, princess 37 

rasp 113 

Rolls, sandwich, plain 112 

Roll, steamed Apple 53 

apricot 53 

" blackberry 55 

blueberrry S5 

" cherry 56 

" peach 59 

Rolls, sweet, and coffee cakes, 

sponge for 107 

Roll. Swiss 37 

Vanilla cream 36 

Vienna no 

Rolls, Vienna with shortening, no 

Roll warmer 128 

Rolled dumpling paste n 

wafers 40 

Roly-poly S3 

Roman case paste 13 

icecream 95 

punch 89 

Romanoff pudding so 

Rose caramels 131 

drops 42 

sherbet 88 

Roses 4S 

Rosette waters 124 

waffles 124 

Royal ice cream 96 

icing. 24 

" flowersot 137 

" scroll and net work 

with 137 

pudding 61 

punch 90 

Rum punch 90 

" sauce, English 49 

Rundstuck, Hamberg no 

Rusk 116 

Rusks and buns, sponge for.. . 113 

Rusk dough 114 

toasted tea 122 

Russian jelly 73 

punch 90 

Rye breads 108 

bread, half 109 

*' sponge for 108 

" with sponge 109 

" straight dough.... 108 
" as wall paper 

cleaner 142 

flour 98 

muffins 122 

Sabayon sauce 49 

" cold 51 

Saffron yellow color 8 

Sago cake 6» 

fritters 76 

with fruit juice 6s 

jelly 65 

pudding 61 

St. Honore cream tarts si 

St. JaCQuescuo 87 



PAGE 

Salads, fruit 

Salad, fruit glace 

macedoine .''. 5 

Sally Lunn 120 

" " mufSns 120 

with baking 

powder 121 

Salted almonds 140 

chestnuts 140 

peanuts 140 

Salt-rising bread 100 & 107 

Sand tourte ; 34 

Sandwich, puff paste 45 

rolls, plain 112 

Saratoga ice cream 94 

punch 91 

tartlets 21 

Sauce, for all puddings 50 

Anglais 
apple 



apricot Si 

bishop 50 

brandy 50 

cardinal so 

chocolate cream so 

claret wine with sago 50 

clear white wine 50 

coldapricot S' 

" cherry 51 

" chocolate si 

" cream 51 

" peach 51 

" raspberry 51 

" sabayon 51 

" strawberry 51 

currant so 

custard 49 

English brandy 49 

" cream so 

" " with rum.. 49 

" rum 49 

foaming. 49 

Sauces, fruit 50 

Sauce, fruit from all fruits so 

hard ~.. 51 

lemon so 

cream 49 

macedoine so 

maple syrup 50 

mousseline 51 

orange 50 

cream so 

peach 51 

pineapple 51 

polonaise so 

Sauce, pudding 49 

sabayon 49 

sultana so 

vanilla cream so & 51 

vin blanc 50 

whipped cream, for de- 
corating SI 

wine cream 49 

Savarin cake 46 

fritters 77 

pudding, cold 75 

Mazarin 62 

" Montmorency... 62 

" plain 62 

" Richelieu 62 

Savoy biscuit 37 

Saxon zwieback 116 

Saxonia punch 90 

Scones, fancy 121 

§ lain, with buttermilk 121 

cotch 121 

Scotch cake 39 

scones 121 

shortbreads 38 

Scroll and net work with royal 

„ ,, icing 137 

Seed biscuit 46 

" poundcake, English 28 

Semmel no 

Serving of pastry 127 

Sherbet, apple 87 

chocalate 88 

cocoanut 140 

Sherbets and ices, preserved 

crushed fruits for 3 

Sherbet, lemon 87 

lemon and ginger 87 

mint 87 

orange 87 

orange flower 88 



PAGE 

Sherbet, oriental ..., ,,, 88 

pear 87 

Sherbets, preserved crushed 

fruits for 3 

Sherbet, rose d8 

tea and lemon 87 

vanilla 83 

Short breads, Scotch 38 

Shortcake banana 74 

blackberry 74 

different ways of making. 73 

individual 73 

peach 74 

raspberry 74 

strawberry 73 

■' family style... 73 

Short paste, German 11 

for tarts n 

49 Shredded wheat biscuit cust'rd 54 

" ice cream 84 

Shu-shus 40 

Siberian ice cream 83 

punch 92 

Side dishes and cold puddings 63 

custard 70 

Silver cake 29 

Simple syrups 6 

Sliced apples, compote 4 

apple pie 16 

compote of apples 4 

Slices, almond 46 

anise....' 46 

belgrade 46 

cream 45 

Floradora 46 

fruit 45 

meringue 4s 

opera 46 

Small fancy cakes from sponge 

mixtures 37 

meringue cases for tour t's 

and ice creams 44 

Snails 118 

Snaps, ginger 39 

lemon 39 

Snow pudding, lemon 64 

" orange 64 

" pineapple 64 

" raspberry 64 

" strawberry 64 

Snowflake bread 105 

'■' " w. buttermilk. 105 

Socles and figures from fat, 

paraffin, stearin & wax. 138 

SoufHe, almond 41 &S4 

of apples 53 

apricot 53 

Souffles beignets 13&76 

Souffle cheese 60 

chocolate 42&S4 

glace, biscuit 94 

" Italian 94 

imitation 94 

lemon 58 

macaroons 43 

meringue 42 

omelet, American style. .. 75 

orange 54&S8 

peach S3 

pudding, Alaska 66 

vanilla 54 

Soup sticks 112 

" w. baking powder.. 112 
Sour dough to start from yeast- 
raised dough 108 

milk biscuits 122 

" doughnuts iig 

Southern beaten biscuits. 122 & 123 

buttermilk bread 124 

corn bread 123 

" pone 12? 

family fcorn bread I2i 

fruit bread 124 

gingerbread 36 

Spaghetti pudding 14c 

Spanish cake 28 

" poundcake 26 

Special hotel breads iia 

Spice cakes 36 

Spiced muffins 12s 

Spinning sugar 13s 

Split bread, Kinsley's French. 103 



loaves, French 103 

" Irish 106 

rolls, French io< 



PAGE 

Split rolls. German in 

SpoDice for buns and rusks iia 

cakes 

cake 30 

" butter 2? 

" Genoise 30 

" plain 30 

for coffee cakes and sweet 

rolls 107 

and dough loi 

for French bread loB 

to make various kinds of 
bread from one large.. . 107 

for pan bread 108 

poundcake 2q 

for rye bread 108 

tatty 130 

" cocoanut 130 

" popcorn 130 

tor Vienna bread 108 

Spring waffles 124 

Springer le 41 

Spun sugar 135 

Sauares. Neapolitan cream 135 

Squash pie 19 

Standard dough for coffee cake 114 

dough for gugelhupf 114 

" pretzels 114 

" stollen 114 

" " zwieback 114 

Steamed apple dumpling S3 

roll 53 

apricot roll 53 

blackberry roll S5 

blueberry roll 55 

cherry roll 56 

pudding 56 

citron " 56 

date ■' s6 

diplomat ' 56 

dumpling paste 11 

fig pudding 57 

Floradora pudding 57 

fruit pudding 57 

(rich) 57 

Indian fruit pudding s8 

lemon pudding. 58 

orange " 58 

peacn dumplings 60 

" puddmg, family s. sp 

peach roll 5« 

pound pudding 57 

rice and fruit puddings... 61 

Steamer tor pastry room 49 

Stearin, figures and socles from 138 

Steeples, cocoanut 43 

Sterilize fruits, to 142 

Stick candy, striped 128 

Sticks, cheese 113 

hoarhound 129 

soup 112 

" with baking powder. 112 

Stock jelly 7i 

" yeast 100 

Stollen. almond 118 

American 118 

German 118 

standard dough for 114 

Storing and keeping of creams 

"and ices 79 

Straight dough loi 

Straws, cheese 113 

Strawberry Bavarian cream .. . 68 

blanc-mange 69 

caramels 131 

charlotte 67 

Strav/berries. cold comaote... 6 

compote of S 

Strawberry cream meringue pie 18 
Strawberries, crushed, pre- 
served cold 4 

Strawberry drops 129 

frappe 88 

ice 85 

icecream 84 



jam. 



jellywith gelatin 72 

meringue 44&74 

pie with whipped cream.. 18 

sauce, cold Si 

shortcake 73 

family style 73 

snowpudding 64 

Streusel buns. German 115 

coffeecake 116 



S-T 

PAGE 

Streusel, German ii<; 

kucheiL 116 

Striped stick candy 128 

Strips, German almond 39 

Stuffed dates 140 

Suet dumpling paste 11 

pudding, cocoanut 56 

English 61 

" lemon 61 

" orange 61 

Sugar 3 

boiiingdegree 7 

casting in molds 133 

colored 8 

cookies 38 

leaves and flowers from 

boiled 137 

work, ornamental 13s 

spinning 135 

spun 135 

web 136 

work, nougat 136 

Suggestions, ice cream, for holi- 
days & special occasions 96 

Sultana buns 114 

currant cake 32 

sauce 50 

Sunshine cake 30 

Swedish croQuant wafers 41 

Sweet biscuits I2i&i22 

fritters, ba tter paste for . . 14 

omelets and fritters 75 

potato pie 19 

rolls and coffee cakes, 

sponge for 107 

Swiss peach meringue 72 

„ " roll 37 

Syrups, fruit 6 

simple 6 

Taffy, almond 129 

butter 129 

chewing 130 

cocoanut sponge 130 

-Everton 129 

molasses 129 

peanut 130 

popcorn, sponge 130 

Taffies, pulled 129 

Taffy, sponge 130 

Tapioca with apples or peaches 62 

blanc-mange 65 

cake 62 

custard 62 

with fruit juices 65 

jelly 65 

pudding 61&65 

" plain 61 

Tarts 16 

almond 21 

Tart cakes, large 33 

Tarts, cheese 22 

custard 22 

Chelsea m 

conde 21 

English cheese 22 

French cream 23 

German cheese 21 

crumb 23 

" poppy seed 22 

Tart, icecream 96 

Tarts, macaroon 21 

Tart, Maserene (mazerine) 20 

Tarts, metropolitan 22 

peach 21 

Tart and pie fillings 9 

Tarts, Portuguese 21 

St. Honore cream 21 

Tart. Vienna nut ^3 

Tartlets 16 

cinnamon 22 

Tartlet crumb filling 15 

Tartlets, Floradora 22 

fruit 20 

lemon 23 

Saratoga 21 

Vienna 23 

wine cream 21 

Tea biscuits 122 

frappe 88 

icecream 83 

and lemon sherbet 87 

roll, French 118 

rusk, toasted 122 

Temperature of brine for freez- 
ing 81 



T-U-V 



167 



PAGB 

Three-Quarters puff paste 10 

Timbale of fruit, comptesse 62 

LaFayette 62 

Madison 62 

Martin 62 

Waldorf 62 

Tipsy parson 74 

To make various kinds of bread 

from one large sponge.. 107 

Toast, anise 43 

bread for 143 

French 77 

Toasted tea rusk 122 

Tortoni cream 69 

creme. Fjancais 69 

glace 94 

icecream 84 

Tourte, alliance 34 

chocolate Vienna. ..". 34 

creme de vanille 34 

French, a la creme 34 

German brod 34 

liner 34 

meringue 34 

Tourtes, meringue cases for... 44 

Tourte, orange 33 

punch 34 

a la royale 34 

sand 34 

Vienna almond 33 

" creme 33 

Transparent icing. 24 

Trifle 74 

Turkish delight 135 

Turnovers 4S 

Turnover, apple SJ 

peach 60 

Tutti frutti cream squares 13s 

ices 86 

" " in cups 86 

" icecream q6 

Use of cake crumbs and left- 
over cakes 48 

colors in icing cakes 25 

condensed cream & milk. 141 

crumbs 144 

fruits in cakes and buns.. 125 
glucose in pres'rvingtruits 139 

lime water in baking 141 

waste breads 144 

Vacherine meringue 75 

■' in wafer cases 73 

Vanilla Bavarian cream 68 

caramels 131 

cream cake 117 

" candy 131 

■■ drops 42 

" French bo 

•• roll 36 

sauce 50&51 

crisps 40 

drops 42 

eclairs 7S 

extract 7 

glace 92 

Icecream 83 

sherbet 88 

souffle 54 

wafers 40 

Vermicelli cake 59 

fritters 77 

pudding 59 

Victoria punch 91 

Vienna almond tourte 33 

apple pudding 52 

breads 104 

bread, Americ'n.w.sponge 104 

" genuine 104 

■■ sponge for 108 

straight dough 104 

brioches 110 

chocolate tourte 34 

coffee cake dough 117 

cream breads 104 

filling 15 

icing. 2S 

krapfen 119 

milk rolls no 

nut tart 33 

punch 90 

pudding, empress 63 

rolls, American, straight 

dough no 

rolls with shortening no 

tartlets 23 



i68 



V-W 



PAGE 

Vienna tourte, creme 33 

zwieback 116 

Vin blanc sauce 50 

Virgin ice cream 83 

yeast gg 

Virginia beaten biscuit 122 

Voi-au-vent 16 

Wafers, almond 40&41 

brandy 41 

butter 41 

chocolate 41 

ductiesse 41 

filbert 41 

honey 41 

icecream 40 

rolled 40 

rosette 124 

Swedish croquant 41 

vanilla 40 

walnut 41 

Waffles with baking powder... 124 
cream, with sour cream or 

buttermilk 124 

French 124 

Holland 124 

hotel 124 

Waffle paste, fried 13 

Watfles, rosette 124 

spring. 124 

yeast raised 124 

Wa'dorf glace 96 



w 

PAGE 

Waldorf icecream 96 

Wall paper cleaner. Dr. Ewells 142 
rye bread as 142 

Walnut cake 32 

macaroons 43 

wafers 41 

Washington cup 87 

Waste breads, use of 144 

Water, cream 15 

-glass preserved eggs 139 

ice, fruit 85 

icing 24 

roll, German no 

Watermelon rinds 6 

Wax, figures and socles from.. 138 

Web sugar 136 

Wedding cakes 31 

Wheats 98 

Wheat cakes 125 

whole 125 

muffins 121 

Whipped cream with fruit, in 

cases 70 

■ cream sauce for deco- 
rating SI 

White cakes 29 

cherries, compote s 

fruit cakes 32 

mixtures tor cake 32 

wine frappe 89 

Whole wheat bread 106 



W-Y-Z 

PAGE 

Whole wheat bread with po- 
tatoes 107 

" " cakes liS 

Wilhelminas 23 

Wine cakes 28 

cream sauce 49 

" tartlets 21 

Wines, frozen 91 

Wine and liQuor jellies with 

fruit 71 

Wreathes 118 

Yeast, about 99 

cake, dry ico 

compressed 99 

maiden 90 

malt 100 

raised muffins 121 

waffles 124 

stock 100 

virgin ; 99 

Yellow color 7 

layercakes 32 

Yorkshire pudding 63 

Zwieback, anise ii5 

Hamburg 116 

" children ii5 

Hungarian 116 

Pressburgh 116 

Saxon 116 

standard dough for 114 

Vienna 116 



PART I. Fruit Jellies and Preserves. . . Jams, Jellies Compotes and Syrups. . . 

Preserved Crushed Fruits for Sherbets and Ices. . . Preserving Pie 
Fruits. . . Sugar Boiling Degrees. . . Colors. - - Pages i to 8. 

PART II. Pastry and Pie Making, Pastes and Fillings. . . Pastry Creams, Patty 
Cases, Tarts and Tartlets. . . Icings. ----- - Pages 9 to 25. 



PART 
PART 
PART 
PART 
PART 



III. Cake Baking. 

IV. Puddings and Sauces. 

V. Ice Creams, Ices, Punches, Etc 

VI. Breads, Rolls, Buns, Etc. 



- Pages 26 to 48. 

- Pages 49 to 77. 

- Pages 78 to 97. 
Pages 98 to 128. 



VII. Candy Making and Miscellaneous Recipes Bread Economies in 

Hotel. . . . Caterers' Price-List. - - - - Pages 128 to 146. 




APPENDIX 



169 



DANISH PASTRY AND BUTTER CREAMS 



Danish pastry is made of rich coffee cake 
dough, which was formerly known as yeast 
raised puff paste, or as French, or Vienna 
coffee cake doughs. Of late years the pastry 
has hecome more widely known and made 
popular by the name of Danish pastry, and 
the methods of slow working doughs have 
been changed to more progressive methods, 
using a larger quantity of yeast, which permits 
the doughs to be made and the butter to be rolled 
in at once. The methods, however, vary in the 
different shops. The handling of this pastry is 
the same as when making other puff pastes ; the 
conditions must be favorable so that the goods 
can be made up in a cold place; the materials 
must be cold, and handled in a temperature which 
prevents the butter from melting. After the 
goods have been placed in pans, they may be 
placed in a warmer temperature, given time to 
expand before baking. The flour should be a 
blend of from 2/3 to % of a good hard wheat 
flour (bread flour) with from % to % part of 
soft wheat flour (pastry flour). The butter 
should be dry and flexible, and of the same con- 
sistency as the dough. A most favorable tem- 
perature of handling these doughs is given as 
between 50 and 55 degrees, Tahr. In some 
bakeries it is the custom to make the basic dough 
in the evening, and roll in the butter in the morn- 
ing. In other places the dough is made ready 
and given two turns in the evening, kept in the 
ice box over night, and worked up in the morning; 
or the dough is made up and worked at once, 
giving it only a little time to recover. 

1: Danish Pastry Dough: Flour, 7% to 8 
pounds; cold milk, 2 quarts; sugar, 1% pounds; 
butter, 5 to 6 pounds, (Amount may be varied ac- 
cording to richness of dough desired) ; yeast, 8 
ounces ; eggs, % pint yolks, % pint whole eggs ; 
flavor with the grated rind of two lemons ; a little 
ground mace. 

2: Swedish Pastet Dough: 2 quarts half 
milk half water; 5 to 10 eggs; 8 ounces yeast; 
12 ounces sugar; 12 ounces lard; 2 pounds but- 
ter; 7% to 8 pounds flour; flavor with lemon rind 
and mace. 

METHOD OF WORKING: Make a fairly 
stiff dough of the consistency of cold firm butter; 
dissolve the yeast in the milk. For No. 1, cream 
sugar, 1 pound of butter light with eggs. For No. 
2, cream sugar and lard with eggs. Add flour 
and make a smooth dough. Divide the dough in 
two pieces, form a square and set in the ice box, 
covered, to rest for half an hour. Then place 
dough on flour dusted table and roll each piece 
out to about %-inch in thickness, forming an 
oblong three times as long as wide. For No. 1, 
divide 2 to 2% pounds butter. For No. 2, 1 
pound of butter over 2/3 of the dough evenly in 
small pals. Smooth the butter, and fold Vs part 



of the dough left bare over half the butter; then 
fold the buttered third over on top. This forms a 
square of three layers of dough with two layers 
of butter in the center. 

Now give one more rolling to % inch of thick- 
ness, and fold in three. Let rest, covered, for 
half an hour and give one more turn. This is the 
same method as used for puff pastes, only less 
turns or foldings are given. The dough is now 
ready to be worked up in the various shapes 
desiyed, set on pans, and allowed to rest from 20 
to 30 minutes to gain some volume, after which 
the goods are washed, sprinkled with nuts or 
almonds, or filled with cream or jam and baked, 
and further finished with icings and butter 
creams for decoration. 

OTHER METHODS OF HANDLING are to 
make the dough as given in the evening, and fin- 
ish by rolling in the butter in the morning; or 
making the dough and rolling in the butter in the 
evening, giving it two turns and leaving in the 
ice box over night, and give only one folding in 
the morning. 

The Swedish pastry dough is usually made and 
worked up at once after giving dough a little 
time to prove, or from 20 to 30 minutes. The 
butter is then rolled in, and the dough is worked 
up at once. This dough, being less rich in butter, 
is well suited for lunch rooms and restaurant, 
the work being quickly made, and may be worked 
up in large portion pieces, such as crescents, 
snails, pretzels and squares, to sell for five or ten 
cents each, the size according to price. The dough 
may also be made up in large fiUed rolls, proved 
and baked, iced and sold in cuts. With different 
fillings and shapes quite a variety of goods can 
be produced, all of which will prove good sellers. 

Working Up Ready Made Doughs 
Roll out a sheet of dough to about % inch 
thickness, cut up in strips six inches wide, and 
cut this again in one-inch wide strips ; twist these 
strips, and make up into coils or snails, pret- 
zels, or scrolls ; set on pans, place a dot of good 
jam in the center of each coil or scroll, place a 
dot of cream custard over, let rest 20 to 30 min- 
utes and bake. These may be covered with icing, 
and a cherry in center of icing. 

Filled Crescents 

Roll dough and cut in three-ounce triangles, 
oblongs ; spread some almond or nut cream over, 
or cover with jam and sprinkle with chopped 
nuts. Roll dough up as for crescents, set on 
pans, egg wash, sprinkle chopped nuts on top ; 
let rest 20 minutes, then bake. They may be left 
plain, or covered with butter cream and rolled in 
chopped nuts. 

Other effects may be made by filling a long 
strip of dough, dividing, and catting ia six-inch 



170 



APPENDIX 



strips ; set these in horseshoe shape on the pans, 
wash and bake, and decorate with butter cream. 

Swedish Butter Roll 

Roll dough out after giving two turns, sprinkle 
with cinnamon sugar and ground nut meats, 
double over, and roll into sheet % inch thick; 
cut into three-inch wide strips, and cut the strips 
into three-inch squares. This can be done in the 
ordinary shop temperature of 80 degrees if 
dough is cool. Fold each comer of the square 
to the center, and press down well. Set on pans, 
about 25 of this size to a pan 18x25x1 inch ; egg 
wash, let prove to double size, put a dot of pastry 
cream in the center, give only medium proof, and 
bake in fairly good heat. When baked put dot 
of icing on the cream. The shapes and sizes may 
be varied in many ways and the filling changed. 
In fact there is no limit to the variations. 

It must be borne in mind that goods of high 
quality can only be made of the best materials. 
The rich pastry doughs, containing large amounts 
of butter should be baked as soon as recovered 
on the pans to have the appearance of good leafy 
and crisp pastry. The less rich doughs may be 
given more time on the pans to produce a larger 
lighter article. Any pastry cook used to han- 
dling puff pastes, the making of which is fully 
explained in all of my pastry books, will find no 
difficulty in making Danish pastry. The same 
shapes as used for turnover fancy rolls, and 
twists with puff paste, also will work nicely when 
using the yeast raised puff pastes given. 

Fillings tor Pastries 

Quite a variety of fillings for pastries are given 
in "Pastry for the Restaurant," pages 41 to 45; 
in "Paul Richards' Pastry Book," pages 2 to 4, 
and 14 to 15, and in the "Lunch Room Book" 
pages 30 to 34. Fruit jams of all kinds, pastry 
creams, etc., are popular. The various icings and 
butter creams are used for decorating the baked 
cakes, which are often finished with candied 
fruits, and in many other ways. In making up 
fillings it is economical to use good cake crumbs, 
broken or stale macaroons, which may be mixed 
with the various ground or chopped nut meats, or 
jams, and sufficient moisture in a soft spread- 
ing paste. 

Almond Filling — Nut Filling 

No. 1: 1 pound roasted filberts, or ground 
walnuts; 2 pounds sugar; 1 pound cake crumbs; 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon; 5 eggs, and suffiicient 
water to make a soft spreading paste. 

No. 2: Half pound almond paste, % pound 
ground almonds, 1% pounds sugar, 1 pound cake 
crumbs, 5 to 8 eggs, sufficient water to make a 
soft paste, flavor of vanilla. 

Frangipane Cream Filling 

Cream 1 pound sugar, 1 pound almond paste, 
with 1 pound butter. Add 8 to 9 eggs. Flavor 
vanilla. The fillings may be varied, adding 



chocolate or spices or crushed fruit, or other 
goods. 

Butter cream being very much used for filling 
pastries, especially French pastries, and other 
large tart cakes, is also used for decorating, and 
the formulas are varied in many ways. It may 
be made up in one large batch, divided, colored, 
and flavored, and kept on hand in cool place for 
use. 

Standard Butter Cream 

SYz pounds icing sugar (powdered) ; 1 pound 
best butter free from salt; % pint egg whites 
beaten to a stiff meringue, adding V/z pounds 
of the sugar. 

A good neutral fat, such as cocoanut butter 
or a good margarine may be used with the butter. 

Cream butter light with 2 pounds of the sugar, 
and when very light gradually beat in the me- 
ringue until all is added. This may be made any 
color and flavor. A little lemon juice may be 
added with fruit flavors. 

Boiled Butter Cream. Italian Butter Cream 

Method 1: Boil 2 pounds sugar, % pint of 
water 240 degrees (soft ball degree). Beat up 
16 yolks, and gradually add the boiled syrup and 
beat up light. Beat up 2 pounds of butter, or 
part margarine. When light add the cooled egg 
cream in small portions, and beat up. Flavor 
and color as desired. 

Method 2: Make a hot meringue, boiling 3 
pounds of sugar, % pint water to 245 degrees. 
Beat up 1 pint egg whites and gradually pour 
the boiled syrup into the beaten whites, beating 
constantly. Then cream up 2 pounds of butter, 
and beat in the meringue, until light. Flavor 
as desired. For almond or nut cream diluting 
almond paste, or nut paste may be added. 



RAISIN BREAD AND HEALTH BREAD 



A buyer of Paul Richards' books asks for 
some recipes for Raisin Breads, which he is 
unable to find in the books; because when the 
books were written, raisins in bread were very 
little used. 

In recent years raisins as well as prunes have 
been very much advertised, and many kinds of 
fruit breads have become popular and are in 
good demand. 

Seeded raisins and seedless raisins are used 
in various proportions. 

For use in breads seeded raisins are best sep- 
arated by breaking the package, placing the 
raisins on a baking pan, and set in the oven for 
a minute to heat. This facilitates the separat- 
ing. Another way is to moisten them with a 
little water. 

When dry, seedless raisins are used, they 
should be covered with water for a couple of 
hours, and the water drained off before using. 

The adding of the raisins to tlie dough is best 
done shortly before the dough is fully mixed. 



APPENDIX 



171 



If added too early the fruit is liable to break 
and cause the breads to have a streaky looking 
texture. 

In many bakeries it is the custom, where only 
a small quantity of this bread is required, to 
simply work from li/g to 2 pounds of raisins in 
twenty to twenty-five pounds of plain bun 
dough. 

Quite a good many bakeries make special 
raisin breads, and also use fine cut figs, prunes, 
or combinations of fruits and chopped walnuts 
or pecans in these breads. 

A number of these raisin or fruit breads are 
made with so-called Health Tlours, consisting 
of whole wheat meal, or a combination of sev- 
eral flours or meals. Some of them have bran 
added. These breads make a pleasing specialty 
where a change in diet is appreciated. 

To make a good whole wheat bread and add- 
ing raisins, it is necessary to have the whole 
wheat meal or flour milled from high grade hard 
winter wheat, or good Northern or Canadian 
hard spring wheat. Quite a number of mills 
grind special strong wheat meals and whole 
wheat flours, and some bakers buy the hard 
Canadian spring wheat and grind it into a 
coarse meal, using the same grinder that is used 
for coffee, which makes a fine gritty meal. 

Graham flours should practically contain the 
whole of the wheat ; but these flours vary greatly 
in strength. Some of them are milled from very 
soft wheat. Some of them are composed of 
bran and offal of soft wheat, and are mixed with 
soft wheat flours. These flours require a large 
addition of good hard wheat flour to make good 
bread. 

To make a Special Raisin Bread: 

1— OITO GALLON BATCH RAISIN BREAD, 
STRAIGHT DOUGH 

14 to 14% pounds white bread flour 

1 gallon water, or part milk 

5 to 6 ounces of yeast 

2% to 3 ounces salt. 

8 ounces of sugar 

4 to 6 ounces shortening 

From 1 to 2 pounds of raisins. 

Method of Mixing: Dissolve the yeast in 1 
quart of water; dissolve salt and sugar in bal- 
ance of water, having the water of a temperature 
to have the dough about 80 degrees Fahr. when 
mixed. Add the flour and partly mix. Add the 
yeast solution, mis a minute, then add the short- 
ening. When dough is nearly mixed add the 
raisins and mix smooth to distribute the raisins 
evenly. Let the dough rise until light enough to 
recede when fingers are pushed in and with- 
drawn. Punch down and fold in sides and ends. 
Cover and let rise again to same height, fold over 
again, let rise once more about half way up, 
then divide into loaves. Give only short proof 
(let loaves double in size in pan) and bake as 
usual. 



2.— RAISIN BREAD, SPONGE AND 
DOUGH PROCESS 

1 gallon water 
% gallon milk 
3y2 ounces salt 

4 to 5 ounces yeast 
11/2 pounds sugar 

1 to 11/^ pounds shortening 
3 to 5 pounds raisins 

21 pounds flour (approximately). 

For this bread from 5 to 10 eggs or one pint 
of yolks may be added if desired. 

Set sponge with one gallon water, yeast and 
ten pounds of flour. Add the balance of in- 
gredients for doughing and work as in the pre- 
ceding formula. Set sponge at 82 degrees; 
dough at 80 degrees. Let dough come up once 
fully, then let come up twice only half, and 
work up. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH RAISINS 

1% pounds white bread flour. 
1% pounds graham flour. 
1% pounds cornmeal. 
1% pounds rye flour. 

2 quarts molasses. 
1 quart water. 

1 quart milk. 

1 pound small raisins. 
% ounce salt. 

3 ounces baking powder. 

Mix all the dry ingredients, sifting the bak- 
ing powder in the white flour. Add molasses 
mixed with milk and water; last, add raisins. 
Mix well and steam or bake in well greased tins 
from 2 to 2% hours. For baking, set tins on 
one heavy pan; cover with another pan, and 
bake in low temperature of 260 to 275 degrees 
Fahr. 

BRAN BREAD WITH RAISINS (ONE 
GALLON BATCH)* 

For flour blend take 

6 pounds white bread flour 

5 pounds whole wheat flour 

2 pounds wheat bran 
1 pound potato flour 

Work like Batch No. 1, using ingredients as 
given, and handle dough in the same way. 

WHOLE MEAL RAISIN BREAD* 
Use 14 pounds strong whole wheat meal; or, 
if flour appears weak, add five pounds hard 
spring wheat bread flour, leaving out a propor- 
tionate amount of the meal. 

WHOLE WHEAT AND WHITE BREAD 
WITH RAISINS* 

Take half whole wheat flour, or two-thirds 
whole wheat and from one-third to a half white 
bread flour to make up 14 to 14% pounds flour. 



172 



APPENDIX 



NUT BREAD COMBINATION* 

Take 9 pounds good white bread flour 

2% pounds wheat meal 

21/2 pounds pure rye flour 

Use ingredients as given for No. 1, with from 
8 to 12 ounces of coarsely chopped nuts and 
one pound of small raisins. 

Prom the formula given a very good plain 
health bread can be made without the raisins; 
and another variety can be made using from 12 
ounces to one pound of honey in place of the 
sugar in No. 1, or II/2 pint honey in No. 2, 
which would make a Plain, or Raisin Bread with 
Honey. 

As the darker grades of flour ferment and 
ripen more quickly than the white bread flours, 
the fermentation must be closely watched, and 
the doughs handled cool and young, and breads 
must not be given high proof in the pans before 
baking to make a good well flavored bread. 

*P. S. — The various combinations of flours, 
bran, whole meal, whole wheat, and nut bread, 
all to be used like No. 1, leaving out the 14 to 
14^2 pounds white flour. 



Taboo Use of Word Glucose 

W. p. Cutler, secretary of the "American 
Manufacturers' Association of Products from 
Com," calls attention to the word "glucose" as 
used indiscriminately by the authors of cook 
books, and submits the following for future 
guidance of said authors: 
• * • 

I trust you will pardon me, for calling your 
attention to the fact that the word "glucose" is 
no longer recognized, as a proper characteriza- 
tion for a combination of dextrose-glucose, dex- 
trine, and maltose, resulting from the manufac- 
ture of syrup from the starch of com. 

All legal authorities now use the term "Corn 



Syrup" in accordance with the following defini- 
tion: 

"Washington, D. C, February 13, 1908. 

"We have each given cai;eful consideration 
to labeling, under the pure food law, of the 
thick viscous syrup obtained by incomplete 
hydrolysis of the starch of corn, and composed 
essentially of dextrose, maltose and dextrine. 

"In our opinion it is lawful to label this 
syrup as 'Corn Syrup'; and if to the com 
syrup there is added, a small percentage of 
refiners' syrup, a product of the cane, the 
mixture, in our judgment, is not misbranded 
if labeled 'Com Syrup with Cane Flavor.' 

"George B. Cortelyou, Secretary of the 
Treasury. 

"James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

"OscAE S. Straus, Secretary of Commerce 
and Labor." 

The reason for this definition was that the 
word "glucose" being in effect "dextrose" could 
not properly be applied to a combination of 
dextrose-glucose, dextrine, and maltose, for the 
further reason that it was one ingredient and the 
law requires that no combination of ingredients 
can be named for one of the ingredients. 

Furthermore it has been found that the word 
"glucose" carries with it a prejudice on the part 
of the consumer, who does not understand what 
it really is. 

Not very long since the writer found a country 
physician, objecting to candy containing "glu- 
cose" as he called it, believing as it was made 
from glue, would gum up the kidneys. 

You will see from this, how misleading is the 
word "glucose" and I trust that you will in the 
future see your way clear to use the word "Corn 
Syrup" where you have hitherto used the word 
"glucose"— especially in any of jrour publica- 
tions. 



Popular Handbooks 

for Hotel, Restaurant, Transportation 
Catering, Institution and Club Use 



The Epicurean (Ranhoiei) $7.00 

The king of cook books is "The Epicurean," by 
Charles Ranhofer, of Delmonioo's. This book Is 
1,200 pages and weighs about ten pounds. It is 
the most extensive, the most complete, the most 
readable, the most attractive and the best all- 
around cook book that has ever been published. 
The first chapter is devoted to table service, with 
Instruction in menu-making and the care and 
service of wines, the decoration of the table, the 
fixing of the sideboard, complete dining room 
instructions for the service of course dinners. 
French and Russian service is explained. There 
are lists of china, glass and silver, etc. ; a table 
of supplies In which the French and Fngllsh 
names are given, and a market list. Then follows 
144 pages of menus for breakfasts, luncheons, 
dinners, buffet or standing suppers, collations, 
hunting parties, garden parties, dancing parties, 
etc. All dishes in these menus are numbered to 
conform with recipes for them In the body of the 
book. There is a chapter on elementary methods, 
in which even the drudgery work in the kitchen is 
explained, and all the work done by apprentices 
in the early stages of hotel kitchen work. The 
chapter on kitchen utensils is very full, every 
utensil illustrated. Then come the recipes: 200 
soups, 251 sauces, 133 garnishes, 191 side dishes, 
101 shell fish, 218 fish, 165 beef, 165 veal, 75 
mutton, 109 lamb, 48 pork, 224 poultry, 163 
game, 198 miscellaneous entrees, 67 salads, 172 
vegetables, 100 eggs, 37 farinaceous foods, 233 
sweet entrees, 170 cakes, 17 breads, 189 Ices and 
iced drinks, 90 confectionery, and several illustra- 
tions of centerpieces. There is an exhaustive 
chapter on wines, several recipes for mixed 
drinks, and 64 pages devoted to a collection of 
Delmonico menus. The index occupies 44 double- 
column pages. There are more than 800 illustra- 
tions. A most excellent feature of The Epicurean 
is that every recipe in it appears under a good 
honest English name, alongside of which is the 
translation of it into French. It is beautifully 
bound in Keratol Levant grain, embossed in gold. 

The Palmer House Cook Book (Andet) $3.00 

Here is the book you have been waiting for . . . the 
new Palmer House Cook Book . . . newly revised, 
new recipes . . . illustrated with 20 beautiful natural 
color and 20 black and white illustrations. The 
new Palmer House Cook Book contains all the 
menus and recipes that made the first edition a 
best seller, plus many new recipes and color il- 
lustrations. Recipes for world-famous dishes just 
as they are prepared by Chef Amiet in Chicago's 
Palmer House, and in other leading hotels, clubs, 
restaurants and in private homes. Yet, the In- 
structions are so clear and simple, even a begin- 
ner can produce the dishes with wonderful re- 
sults. The book is divided into two sections. The 
first section gives menus with recipes for seventy- 
six consecutive days. The second part is devoted 
to a choice of 339 recipes which may be substi- 
tuted for any of those on the daily menus; and 
instructions for preparing the sauces, garnishes 
and dressings called for on the menus. Outstand- 
ing feature of this book is its 40 beautiful color 
and black and white illustrations showing the 
proper manner of service, and how the finished 
dish will look. The new Palmer House Cook Book 
is truly a masterpiece of culinary literature . . . 
a book which every manager, chef and steward 
... in every hotel, club, and restaurant should 
own and use. 318 pages of recipes and menus, 
plus 40 pages of illustrations, 6%x8 inches, cloth 
bound. 

The Hotel St Francis Cook Book (Hirtzler) $3.00 

The author was chef of Hotel St. Francis, San 
Francisco. Adapted for hotels, restaurants, clubs, 
coffee rooms, families and every place where 
high-class, wholesome cuisine is desired. This is 
the most important culinary book that has come 
from any press in the last twenty-five years. Mr. 



Hirtzler is known thruout Europe and America 
as one of the ablest chefs of the day. He made 
the cuisine of the Hotel St. Francis world-famous. 
A feature of the Hotel St. Francis Cook Book 
that will be appreciated by thousands of hotel 
people, caterers, families and all interested in 
home economics, is the selection and preparation 
of foods in season ; the presentation of breakfast, 
luncheon and dinner menus for every day in the 
year — the selections appropriate, and all dishes 
actually prepared and served in the Hotel St. 
Francis. This feature of the book gives a sug- 
gestive quality, a reminder attribute, and a 
knowledge of food economies and food attributes 
that is hereby brought to the aid of the proficient 
and the learner, also enables even the inexperienc- 
ed to produce the well-balanced menu. The Hotel 
St. Francis Cook Book is indexed and cross in. 
dexed so that every recipe can be referred to on 
the instant. 

The Edgewater Salad Book (Shircliife) $5.00 

Contains more than 600 tested recipes for salads 
and salad dressings. Mr. Shircliffe has not only 
given the recipes, but in many cases has supple- 
mented them with author's notes, calling atten- 
tion to special health-giving features, and sug- 
gesting diets for the different ailments that af- 
flict humans. He also takes opportunity to preach 
many a short sermon on the importance of right 
eating and what is best for health from the 
cradle to old age. He also intersperses much of 
human interest in the way of anecdote, legend 
and historic events. In this way it is more than 
a cook book — it is readable to those who are not 
so much interested in how to make salads as in 
the enjoyment of them. The great charm of the 
book is the illustrations, which are from direct 
photographs in the natural colors, so that the 
dishes illustrated have the eye-appeal and the 
enticing qualities of the real dish. It is a book 
that fits into every kitchen — home, hotel, club, 
hospital, restaurant, lunch room, cafeteria, steam- 
ship, dining car, industrial catering plant. Insti- 
tution, army mess — In fact, wherever information 
is desired as to the why and how to prepare for 
the table. 

The Edgewater Salad Portfolio (Shircliife) $2.50 

A set of beautiful illustrations of salads taken 
from the Edgewater Beach Salad Book. They are 
mounted on heavy green cover stock, 8% x 11^ 
Inches, each showing one or two of the salads, 
and are suitable for framing. The portfolio may 
be used by the maitre d'hotel to assist him in sell- 
ing party menus. The illustrations are so natural 
and appetizing that they make strong appeal to 
patrons when selecting the salad course for special 
menus. Also these pictures serve as a guide to 
pantry girls, showing them how the finished salad 
should look. 

The Edgewater Sandwich Book (Shircliife) $2.00 

Supplemented with chapters on hors d'oeuvres, 
supremes, canapes and relishes. More than 600 
recipes. This book is by the author of the Edge- 
water Salad Book, the most important culinary 
book produced in recent years. There are thirty 
illustrations of sandwiches and hors d'oeuvres. 
It will meet the requirements of all kinds of re- 
freshment places from the soda fountain to lunch 
room, tea room and high-class restaurant. Bound 
in convenient pocket size. 

A Selection of Dishes and the Chei's Reminder 
(Fellows) $1.25 

The book that has met with the largest sale and 
is In most demand from managers, stewards and 
cooks. It Is in vest pocket form, 220 pages. The 
most complete and serviceable pocket reference 
book to culinary matters that has ever been pub- 
lished. It is not a cook book, in the general sense 
of the word, but is full of ideas and suggestions 
regarding blll-of-fare dishes. Chapters are de- 
voted to entrees of all kinds, salads, soups, con- 
sommes, fish and their sauces, sauces In general, 
garnishes, fancy potatoes, miscellaneous recipes, 
hints to cooks and stewards, suggestion for break- 
fast, lunch and supper dishes, chafing dish cook- 
ery, menus, and a pronouncing glossary of culi- 
nary terms. Hundreds of the dishes listed are 
given with their bill-of-fare names only, as the 
cooks understand tlie basic work in prepari»«c 



dishes, and the sauces and garnishes are treated 
separately, with information as to their com- 
ponent parts. Thousands of men who possess a 
copy of this bool^ say it is their greatest help. 
Printed on bond paper, bound in flexible cover. 

The Hotel Butcher, Gatde Manger and Carrei 

(Frank Rivers) $2.50 

The author has cultivated a new field in culinary 
literature, and produced a book both novel and 
useful. His experience as butcher, carver, chef 
and steward enabled him to compile facts regard- 
ing meats and meat economics, from the butcher 
shop to the dining-room table, that will be in- 
valuable to managers, stewards, chefs, and all 
persons employed in culinary work. His book 
digests the subjects of buying, handling, sale, 
and service of meats, poultry and fish for hotels, 
restaurants, clubs and institutions. It is varied 
with suggestions for the use of meats and trim- 
mings for particular dishes ; the composition of 
these dishes set forth in concise form. The infor- 
mation is clarified by the use of about 300 illus- 
trations. The index is so comprehensive that any 
item may be referred to on the Instant. 125 pages. 

The Culinarr Handbook (Fellows) $2.50 

Presents in concise form information regarding 
the preparation and service of nearly 4,000 dif- 
ferent bill-of-fare dishes ; also gives much infor- 
mation of encyclopedic nature regarding foods 
of all kinds. Quick reference to every dish de- 
scribed is facilitated with an index of 39 columns 
arranged in alphabetical order, and cross indexed 
so that no matter what one is looking for, all he 
has to do is to find the initial letter and under it. 
In alphabetical order, for second, third and fourth 
letters, etc., the article wanted, with page on 
which it is found. Referring, for Instance, to a 
sauce of any particular kind. Find the word Sauce 
in the index, and under it will be found in alpha- 
betical order 149 different sauces ; and under 
Salads 71 different kinds, exclusive of the varia- 
tions in making. Under head of Sausage there are 
45 different kinds described, with directions for 
making as well as cooking and serving. In fact, 
the sausage information in this book is more 
complete than in any other published. 190 pages; 
7 X 10 Inches. 

Paul Richards' Vasby Book $2.50 

This Is the title in brief of "Paul Richards' Book 
of Breads, Cakes, Pastries, Ices and Sweetmeats, 
Especially Adapted for Hotel and Catering Pur- 
poses." The author is known as one of the most 
skillful all around bakers, pastry cooks and con- 
fectioners in America, and has demonstrated the 
quality of his work in leading hotels. In writing 
this book he took particular pains to have the 
recipes reliable and worded In such simple fashion 
that all who read them may readily understand 
and work from them. The book Is In seven parts. 
Part I is devoted to fruit jellies and preserves ; 
jams, jellies, compotes and syrups ; preserved 
crushed fruits for sherbets and ices; preserving 
pie fruits ; sugar boiling degrees ; colors. Part H, 
pastry and pie making, pastes and fillings ; pastry 
creams, patty cases, tarts and tartlets ; icings. 
Part III, cake baking ; Part IV, puddings and 
sauces. Part V, ice creams, ices, punches, etc. 
Part VI, breads, rolls, buns, etc. Part VII, candy 
making and miscellaneous recipes ; bread econo- 
mies in hotel ; caterers' price list. "The recipes are 
readily found with the aid to 36 columns of index 
and cross index in the back of the book, this 
index forming In Itself a complete directory, so 
to speak, of breads, pastry, ices and sugar foods. 
Printed on strong white paper ; pages 7x10 
inches, 168 pages, bound in cloth. 

Pastry for the Restaurant (Richards) $1.25 

A vest pocket book of 158 pages, is, as its title 
indicates, especially produced for the use of bak- 
ers employed in restaurants and European plan 
hotels. The style of work required for the Amer- 
ican plan hotel with table d'hote meal, and that 
for the European plan hotel restaurant, where 
each article Is sold for a separate price, has 
brought about a demand for a book with recipes 
and methods especially adapted for the prepara- 
tion of bakery and pastry goods for individual 
sale. The first chapter is devoted to French 



pastries, which are now so generally sold, yet so 
little understood, because of the misnomer title; 
then follows cakes and tarts of every kind; pies, 
in great variety ; puddings, hot and cold ; ices, 
ice creams, and many specialties, all set forth 
with ingredients, quantities, and methods of mix- 
ing and preparing, and instructions for oven or 
temperature control. Mr. Richards' other books 
have become standard the world over, and this 
one will be equally reliable. The index to this 
book makes a very complete reference to popular 
pastry goods and will be found valuable as a re- 
minder. The book is printed on bond paper. 

Ice Cream for Smoll Plants (Etta H. Handy) $2.50 

Whether you make your own ice cream or buy it 
on specification from a local manufacturer, you 
need this book. It has many practical suggestions 
for retailing and service ; also special chapters 
on the selection of manufacturing and storage 
equipment. There are 23 pages of pictures of 
specialty dishes. The book shows how high grade 
frozen foods can be made economically and ad- 
vantageously in small quantity, as in the hotel 
or restaurant. It is a practical handbook on the 
making of ice cream, and is written in non- 
technical language so that it can be easily under- 
stood by those not familiar with ice cream pro- 
duction. The formulas are written for use in a 
forty-quart freezer, but may be easily adapted 
to one-half or one-quarter that amount, or for 
even smaller quantity. The recipes are carefully 
standardized and have been successfully used to 
yield products of uniformly high quality that can 
be sold at a consistent profit. For those who buy 
ice cream from a local manufacturer, and want 
to control the quality, Ice Cream For Small Plants 
enables them to specify formulas for an almost 
unlimited variety of frozen desserts. 180 pages, 
6x7^ inches, durable cloth binding. 

The Vest Pocket Pastry Book (Meister) $1.25 

This little book contains 500 recipes, includes 57 
for hot puddings, pudding sauces, etc. ; 77 for 
cold puddings, side dishes, jellies, etc. ; 90 for ice 
creams, water ices, punches, etc. ; 68 for pastes, 
patties, pies, tarts, etc. ; 77 for cakes ; 17 for 
icings, colorings, sugars, etc. ; 60 for bread, rolls, 
yeast raised cakes, griddle cakes, etc., as well as 
55 miscellaneous recipes. Mr. Meister wrote this 
book at the request of the editor of The Hotel 
Monthly, who had heard his work highly compli- 
mented by his employers, who said they believed 
him to have no superior as a first-class work- 
man. The recipes, while given in few words, yet 
are easily understandable and have helped thou- 
sands of bakers to improve their work. Book is 
indexed ; printed on bond paper. 

The Vest Pocket Vegetable Book (Moore) $1.25 

This book has done more to popularize the cook- 
ing and serving of vegetables in hotels and res- 
taurants than any other book ever published. It 
was written with this idea. The author took 
particular pains to make this little volume a 
classic and his masterpiece, and he succeeded re- 
markably well. Into 120 pages he has condensed 
more information regarding the history, cultiva- 
tion, nutritive qualities and approved forms of 
cooking and serving vegetables than can be 
found in any other book, no matter how large ; 
and it has been demonstrated to be a book with- 
out mistakes. Recipes for soups, sauces, garnlsh- 
ings and salads supplement the general recipes. 
There are 78 ways of preparing potatoes, 19 of 
mushrooms, 19 of onions, 15 of cabbage, etc., 27 
of beans, 15 of rice, 25 of tomatoes, and others 
in number in proportion to their importance. 
The vegetables are given with their English 
names and the French and German translations. 
The book is indexed and printed on bond paper. 

The Book of Sauces (Senn) $1,25 

Mr. Senn is the author of the famous Twentieth 
Century Cookery Book, The Menu Book, Practical 
Gastronomy, and ten other culinary books that 
have become standard in Europe, and that have 
extensive sale in America. His Book of Sauces 
is the most complete work of the kind that has 
ever been produced. It treats the subject thoroly 
from every angle and covers all kinds of sauces 



for meat, poultry, fish and salad dishes; also 
Bweet sauces. This book is adapted not alone 
for the hotel and catering trades, but also for 
family use the world over. Epicures will find It 
Invaluable for the suggestions and practical In- 
structions, together with the culinary lore there- 
in contained. Book Is vest pocket size, printed 
on bond paper. 

The Fish and Ora\et Book (Kienlx) $1.25 

The author was for many years chef of Rector's 
(the noted sea foods restaurant in Chicago), Is a 
handy vest pocket volume, the leaf measuring 
3 X 6 % inches. In this book Mr. Kientz tells In 
concise manner how to cook practically every 
kind of fish that is brought to the American 
market; and not only explains the method of 
cooking, but also the making of the sauces and 
the manner of service. Every recipe is given with 
its bill-of-fare name in English and its translation 
into the French. The recipes include also such 
dishes as frogs' legs, all kinds of shell fish, snails, 
terrapin, and the fish force-meats. Also there Is 
an appendix with specimen fish and oyster house 
luncheon and dinner menus, with and without 
wines. The book is indexed, printed on bond 
paper, bound in flexible cover. 

Economical Soups and Entrees (Vachon) $1.25 

This book was written in response to a demand 
for a book that would tell how to prepare savory 
dishes from inexpensive materials at small cost; 
and, in particular, how to use up leftovers ; by 
which is meant good cooked foods not served at 
a previous meal, and which have not in any way 
lost their marketable value In the sense of de- 
terioration of quality, but which can be served 
in hotel or restaurant in the same appetizing 
manner that leftovers are served in well-to-do 
families. Mr. Vachon was selected to write this 
book because of his reputation as an economical 
chef. In it he has given recipes in particular for 
meat entrees of the savory order, stews, pies and 
croquettes, hash, salads and fried meats. The 
soups include creams, broths, bouillons, chowders, 
purees, pepper-pots and the like. It Is two books 
in one, separately indexed, printed on bond paper, 
leaf 3x7 inches, bound in flexible cover. 

Eggs in a Thousand Wa7s (Merer) $1.25 

This book gives more reliable information regard- 
ing eggs and their preparation for the table than 
can be found in any other book. Is indexed and 
cross indexed so that any method of cooking eggs 
and any of the garnishings can be referred to on 
the instant. The book starts with boiled eggs. 
Then (following the departmental index in al- 
phabetical order) are cold eggs, 79 ways ; egg 
drinks, 22 kinds; eggs in cases, 25 ways; in 
cocottes, 24 ways; mollet, 79 ways; molded in 
timbales, 29 ways; fried, 33; fried poached, 38; 
hard eggs, 32 ; miscellaneous recipes, 27 ; omelets 
in 210 ways; poached, 227 ways; scrambled, 123; 
shirred, 95; stuffed, hard, 34; surprise omelets, 
9 ; sweet eggs, 16 ; sweet omelets, 38. The recipes 
are in condensed form. The book is vest pocket 
size, 150 pages, printed on bond paper. 

Drinks (Jacques Straub) $1.25 

This book is full of genuine pre-prohibition re- 
cipes for mixed Drinks. The author was wine ste- 
ward of the famous Blackstone Hotel Bar in 
Chicago. It is an authoritative treatise on how 
mixed drinks should be made. In addition to 700 
practical recipes, it has a preface by "Oscar" of 
the Waldorf, and an opening chapter outlining 
the care and medicinal value of wines. 

We recommend "Drinks" as the book being 
used by the finest hotels and clubs, by connois- 
seurs of beverages, and as a book that is author- 
itative and exceedingly practical because it was 
written by one who knew how, and was first 
published in the days before prohibition, (1914). 

Candy for Dessert (Paul Bichaids) $1.25 

This book is concise, yet thorough on the subject 
of candy making; and in addition, offers valuable 
pointers for the preparation of foimtaln syrups, ice 
creams and ices. It starts out vrith information on 
sugar boiling degrees; then follow the recipes and 
other basic information for fondants, caramels. 



fudges, taffies, nougats, crystallized candles, fruit 
centers, bar candles, bon bons, drops, wafers, mis- 
cellaneous candies, sugar spinning, syrups, ice 
creams and ices. The book is vest pocket size bound 
in flexible cover. 

The Menu Translotor (Duchomp & Jenning). ...$3.00 

This book was formerly known as the "Uni- 
versal Dictionary of Menus" and served as a 
guide to thousands of menu-makers, stewards, 
and chefs. Today, it has been completely re- 
vised, greatly enlarged and lists about 12,000 
translations in French, English and German. 
Items are carefully arranged under 25 head- 
ings, making it easy to find any item. Now in 
its seventh edition, and one of the newest and 
most complete works of its kind. 137 pages, 
5x7% inches. 

Adverfising of Hotels (Ckuence Madden) $2.00 

Will advertising pay you a profit? This book is 
written not so much to tell you how to advertise, 
(that depends upon individual circumstances) but 
to help you think thru the problem yourself. It 
deals with studying and planmng sales, what media 
to use, publicity, word-of-mouth advertising, pro- 
motion and selling, the use of an agency, the adver- 
tising message — what to say and how to say it. 
Written by one with 20 years hotel advertising 
experience. A new book. 135 pages, IVixS inches, 
cloth bound. 

Front Office Psychologr (H. V. Heldenbrand). . . .$2.00 

HEVISED EDITION. An enlarged, revised, up-to- 
date edition of a book that has long been the 
"bible" of all front office personnel who meet the 
traveling public. The book includes: Management 
relations; Employee relations; Your personality; 
Receiving and rooming; Mail; Information; Check- 
ing out; General; and Front office tactics. Says Mr. 
Ed. A. Boss, owner of Boss Hotel System, "If you 
can get a clerk to read only 50% of it, he will im- 
prove 100%." The book is written from the practical 
viewpoint. Inspires for improvement in service. 137 
pages, 5x8 inches. 

Housekeeping on Parade $1.00 

Tells in concise, understandable English, the 
methods and practices of successful hotel house- 
keepers. Among the subjects' included are: House- 
keeping technique in one of America's most suc- 
cessful hotel systems; Rules for making beds; Daily 
care of the guest room (schedule for) ; Maid's in- 
structions; How to get stains out of carpets (14 
formulas) ; Working manual for the housekeeping 
department; Vermin and insects, how to rid them; 
Regulations for the housekeeping departments. Two 
chapters devoted exclusively to hotels in the 100- 
room class. It is a book for the management as well 
as for the housekeeper. 90 pages, 9x12 inches. 

The Van Orman System of Hotel Control $ .50 

A book illustrating and describing the many forms 
used in the hotels of the Van Orman Chain of 
hotels. 

American Plan Check System (leiris) $1.00 

HospitaUty (McGovem) $1.00 

The American Wcdter (Gnns) $1.25 

This is the only published book that treats in- 
telligently of the waiter's work from bus boy to 
head waiter, for both hotel and restaurant re- 
quirements. Interspersed are chapters on the care 
of table wares, salad making, table setting, carv- 
ing, dishing up, handling of sea foods, building 
of banquet tables, and many other useful items 
of information. The book is illustrated, vest 
pocket pize, printed on bond paper. 



The Hotel Monthly Bookshop 

John Willy, Inc. 
123 North Wacker Drive Chicago 6, Illinois 



