[ft ! 




emper 





-, 

:i Y 





STOCKTON, CAL. 

STOCKTON DAILY RECORD PRINT. 
1907. 



PREFACE 



IF the heart of man is reached through his stomach, as 
some observer has remarked, then the housewife who 
uses this Cook Book has the great advantage of con- 
tinuing indefinitely, at her pleasure, the heart's best 
devotion which her husband promised before he was her 
husband, and which he pledged at the altar should con- 
tinue long after the last surviving dollar was expended, to 
show how much more he valued her than money, during 
the journey of the honeymoon. With it the diffident 
maiden need not wait with enforced patience and anxious 
suspense, for the man of her choice to tell whether cupid 
has struck him with one of his shafts or not. All she needs 
to do is to wisely use the directions prescribed within and 
invite him to dine. 

Not only will the use of this book make revelations of 
the heart, but it will have a happy effect upon the brain, 
causing others to think pleasant thoughts and say nice 
things, especially if they are visitors; and as for servants, 
why, it will be just marvelous what wisdom they will have 
in culinary arts after studying this text-book of cookery; 
besides, they will be perfectly able to get along without any 
advice. 

If health is a great desideratum, as discerning folk 
agree, then this product of philosophy and experience in 
kitchen chemistry is in a fair way to be an article in the 
doctor's prescriptions. Hereafter, at least, the M. D. advice 
will run something like this: "Keep the feet warm, the 
head cool, the heart right, the brain steady and eat the 
food prepared according to the recipes published in the 
Cook Book of the Semper Fidelis Circle, mixing it thor- 
oughly by the use of those dental formations prepared for 
the purpose by nature or the D. D. S." 

In conclusion: This book is not to fill a long felt want, 
but to keep the want from being long felt. 

May your heart be glad, your brain sound, your health 
perfect and may the Great Provider's blessing be ever upon 
you and yours. May the following lines of you be true: 
"Some ha' meat but canna' eat, 
And some could eat that want it; 
But we ha' meat and we can eat 
So let the Lord be thanket." 



INDEX 



Bread 100-108 

Beverages 173-174 

Cakes 142-172 

Candies 175-179 

Eggs 50- 51 

Fish 22- 34 

Hints for the Housewife 185-186 

Invalid Foods 180-181 

Luncheon Dishes 91- 99 

Light Desserts 131-141 

Meats Gl- 70 

Medical 182-184 

Miscellaneous 187-190 

Poultry 52- 60 

Pickles and Preserves 71- 79 

Puddings 118-130 

Pastry 109-117 

Soups 5-20 

Salads 36- 49 

Vegetables 80- 90 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



SOUPS 



While soup is the one dish to which all the odds 
and ends of the table, except the sweets, may con- 
tribute, it may nevertheless be made from any of 
the same articles in their virgin state. 

Soup stock is easily made and kept. Beef fur- 
nishes a good foundation for the same. It should 
always be put on in cold water, using a quart of 
water to a pound of meat and bone. Cut the meat 
and crack the bone, and add about 1 tablespoon salt 
to a gallon of water. Never let soup boil rapidly. 
From 4 to 6 hours is the regulation time given by 
the best soup makers. 

As soon as scum arises, skim and continue skim- 
ming, so as to have stock clear. Scum will rise bet- 
ter if a dash of cold water is added just as the soup 
begins to boil. The less palatable bits of meat as 
the flank end of beefsteak and remnants of roasts 
may be boiled down and added to the stock. Old 
meat is better for soup than young meat. Soup 
should be boiled the day before it is used, strained 
while hot and placed in a clean dish to cool, so that 
the fat may be removed before using. 

EGG SOUP. Mrs. John Inglis. 

Brown squares of bread with butter in the frying 
pan or use toasted bread cut into 1/2 inch squares. 
Beat well 3 eggs; pour over them 1 quart scalding 
milk, stirring all the time; add the toast squares 
and a piece of butter; season to taste. Serve at once. 

CRAB SOUP. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Meat from 1 crab, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 quart hot 
milk. Melt piece of butter; add i/2 tablespoon flour 
and stir smooth; add a little cold milk, then the 
quart of hot milk, salt, a dash of cayenne, the crab 
chopped fine and lastly the egg chopped fine. Serve 
as soon as hot. Enough for six persons. Rolled 
cracker may be substituted for the egg if desired. 



Ladies' Calling Cards at THE RECORD OFFICE. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



SOUPS. 



SOUP STOCK. (Fine.) Oakland Cooking School. 

Four Ibs meat, 2 Ibs bone, 1 onion, y 2 cup carrot, 
1/2 cup turnip, 1 piece celery, 6 cloves, 10 pepper 
corns, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig parsley, 2 teaspoons salt. 
Cut meat into small pieces, crack bones, and soak 
in 3 qts cold water 1 hour. Cook in same water 4 
or 5 hours; then add vegetables finely chopped, and 
seasoning; cook 2 hours more; strain. Then to 1 
quart of stock add the white and crushed shell of 1 
egg, beating until it boils again; then strain. 

WHITE SAUCE FOB SOUP STOCK. Miss Gurnee. 

One quart milk, y 2 CU P butter, 1-3 cup flour, 1/2 
teaspoon pepper (red, preferable), a little sugar 
and celery salt, and salt to taste. Prepare and use 
the flour in this as one would ordinarily for thick- 
ening putting butter and salt in last, 

SCOTCH BROTH. Grandma. 

Have ready any plain soup stock. Just before 
soup is needed for table, beat 1 egg lightly and stir 
into soup stock. As soon as the mixture boils it is 
done. Serve at once. 

BEAN SOUP. Mrs. M. H. Orr. 

One pint of white beans soaked, parboiled, mash- 
ed and strained. Add 3 pints milk, pepper, salt, 
a little butter, 3 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, 
and small cubes of bread fried in salt pork fat. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Fry 4 thin slices of salt pork a rich brown. Cut 
into small pieces. Place the grease from pork in 
bottom of stew-pan with some of the pieces. Cover 
with a layer of thinly sliced potato ; add a layer of 
clams, then a layer of crackers wet in milk. Re- 
peat until all are used. Season each layer with 
pepper, salt, bits of the pork and a little butter. 
Turn in all the liquo^ from the clams and add a 
small quantity or water. Cover tightly and cook 
slowly until potatoes are tender. Just before serv- 
ing add 1 pint of milk or cream. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



for the whole family 



You can buy for the whole family at 
Stockton's Greatest Store. A modern 
convenience in keeping" with the policy 
of this store. The life of a retail store 
depends on its quality and character 
Hale's have stood the test. 




Telephone Main 1346 
Res. Phone Main 2106. 



Notary in Office 



Parkinson & Van Vranken 

ATTO R N EYS-AT-LAW 



Rooms 6, 8 and 10 
No. 13 S. Hunter Street 



STOCK1ON, CAL. 



NEW ENGLAND BAKERY 

W. L. WEMMER, Proprietor 

BREAD, PIES AND CAKES 

FRESH EVERY DAY 



348 N. California Street Stockton, Gal. 

Telephone 881 Main. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



SOUPS. 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Boil 1 quart of asparagus, cut in inch lengths, 
in 1 quart of water until tender, rub through a 
colander and return to the water in which it was 
boiled. Heat 1 pint milk ; stir into it 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter rubbed with 1 of flour, and cook a few 
moments. Season and pour into asparagus. Let 
it get boiling hot, and pour into tureen over toasted 
bread cut into dice. Serve at once. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. Mrs. Geo. W. Tatterson. 

Twelve ears of tender corn scraped. Boil the 
cobs 20 minutes in 1 quart of water; remove them 
and put in the corn; boil 15 minutes, then add 2 
quarts of rich milk. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter and, if thickening is desired, use 2 table- 
spoons flour. Boil the whole for 10 minutes and 
turn into a tureen in which are the yolks of 3 well- 
beaten eggs. 

CORN SOUP. Oakland Cooking School. 

One can corn, !/4 cup butter, 1 pint water, !/4 cup 
flour, 1 quart milk, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 2 
teaspoons salt, ^ teaspoon white pepper (yolks of 
2 eggs, but not necessary). Chop corn before using, 
and strain soup before serving. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Prepare a stock from 3 pounds of meat and bone 
and 3 quarts of water, according to directions in 
"Soups." Add a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a to- 
mato, a small potato, some celery and parsley, chop- 
ped fine. Some add also a little rice or barley. 
Boil 1/2 hour, and serva If desired real thick, use 
browned flour. A cup of rich milk or cream poured 
into tureen just before serving, is favored by some. 
If one does not care to eat the vegetables, the soup 
may be run through a sieve when the vegetables 
are done, and then put on fire again for a moment 
to heat. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



Established 1878 Incorporated 1902 

SIVE$ EXPRESS co. 

Trasfer and Storage of Baggage, Freight, Pianos 
and Household Goods; 

Trunks 25 Cents To and From All Trains 

Stockton Office 47 South Sutter Street, Cor. of Market St. 
Telephone Main 2331. 



RAYMOND J. WHEELER 

FANCY GROCERIES STAPLE 

Cor. Center and Lafayette. 

Telephone Main 86, STOCKTON, CAL. 

Phone Main 908 



DR. GEO E. MINAHEN 

DENTIST 

San Joaquin Valley Bank Building, 

Hours: 9 to 12, 1 to 5 11 North Hunter Street 

Sundays by Appointment STOCKTON, CAL. 

ADAMS DAIRY 

PURE MILK AND CREAM 

J. L. BEECHER, PROP. 

Tel. 2755 Main, Waterloo Road STOCKTON 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



10 SOUPS. 



CLEAR BROTH. Miss Gurnee. 

Heat 1 tablespoon butter in a deep saucepan 
that can be covered ; sliver finely a moderately sized 
onion and drop into the butter; stir until thor- 
oughly browned ; then mix in from iy 2 to 2 pounds 
finely chopped lean raw beef off the round. Add 1 
quart cold water and stir well. Cover saucepan 
tightly and place where it will heat slowly. As soon 
as the water boils, set where it can simmer steadily 
and let it cook 3 hours ; then strain and return soup 
to the kettle; add white and shell of 1 egg well 
beaten with y 2 cup cold water. Boil 5 minutes then 
strain through flannel bag that has just been wrung 
from cold water. This may be made the day before 
needed and heated to boiling point just before serv- 
ing. Do not forget salt. 

TOMATO SOUP. Mrs. E. B. Wright. 

One can tomatoes, 1 onion, 3 pints water, boiled 
1 tablespoon butter, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 pint of water or 1 quart of soup stock, and 
a little red pepper. Let tomato and water (or 
stock) come to a boil; rub flour, butter and a little 
of the tomato together, and stir into the boiling 
mixture. Strain through a sieve fine enough to 
retain the seeds. Butter slices of stale bread; cut 
into small squares; place in a tin pan butter side 
up, and brown in a quick oven. Serve with soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. Mrs. Geo. Conflict. 

One can tomatoes, 1 onion, 3 pints water, boiled 
% of an hour; strain and add 4 ounces butter, 2 
ounces flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, 
pinch of cayenne pepper. Rub the butter and flour 
together and add y 2 pint sweet milk. 

TOMATO SOUP. Oakland Cooking School. 

One can tomatoes, 1 teaspoon soda, y 2 cup but- 
ter, 1-3 cup flour, 3y 2 teaspoons salt, y 2 teaspoon 
pepper, little sugar and celery salt, and 1 quart 
milk. Cook tomatoes about y 2 hour and then add 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



A. A. TAYLOR 

ELECTRIC /. PLANING /. MILL 

General Mill Work Wood Turning 

Door and Window Screens Tanks Made to Order 

TELEPHONE 800 MAIN 

148 E. Church Street Stockton, Cal. 

ALL WORK PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO 

STOCKTON GROCERY CO. 

DEALER IN 

Staple and Fancy Groceries 

Physicians' Building, No. 344 E. Market St., Stockton, Cal. 
TELEPHONE 1561 

LAUXENOL CATTS 

Importers and Dealers in 

Furniture and Carpets 

Office and Salesrooms: 

S. E. Cor. Weber Ave and San Joaquin Sts. 



A FINE LINE OF TOILET ARTICLES 

PERFUMES, STATIONERY, ETC. 
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

THE PUBLIC DRUG CO. 

PHYSICIANS' BUILDING, 338 E. MARKET ST. 

STOCKTON, CAL. 
G. H. DIETZ. E. L. WRIGHT. 

Goods Delivered Free. Phone Main 1377 



Th Tmf if lrue rthest ' Use onl y "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



12 SOUPS. 



the soda. Make a white sauce of the rest of the 
ingredients (see "White Sauce for Soup Stock"), 
and pour the tomatoes slowly into the same, adding 
seasoning last. Strain before serving. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

One-half can tomatoes, 1 quart milk, butter size 
of an egg, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, a little salt and 
white pepper. Stew tomatoes till soft enough to 
strain; let milk come to a boil, adding cornstarch 
dissolved in a little cold milk, and let it boil very 
slowly (best in double boiler), about 8 or 10 min- 
utes ; add salt and pepper, tomatoes with some soda 
added to keep from curdling, and lastly, the butter. 
Serve with crackers. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Wash and scrape a head of celery well, cut into 
small pieces, put into 1 pint or more of boiling 
water and cook until very soft; chop a small piece 
of onion, boil in 1 quart milk, 10 minutes and add 
all to the celery; rub through sieve, boil again; 
thicken with a little flour and season with butter, 
salt and white pepper. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Cut nice stalks celery fine and boil in water sea- 
soned with salt, nutmeg and sugar to taste, till ten- 
der; rub through sieve; add !/2 pint strong stock, 
simmer y 2 hour; then add 1 pint cream, bring to 
boiling point and serve. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

When the broth is prepared, season with white 
pepper and more salt, if needed. When ready to 
serve, pour very gradually into a tureeu in which 
are placed two or three well beaten eggs, stirring 
all the time. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and break the 
bones. Put on plenty of cold water, salt and let 
slowly come to a boil. Boil very slowly for about 4 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



s= 




D. B. MORRILL 

111 East Main Street 

Ice Cream, Water Ices and 

Warranted Pure and Best 

Frozen Fruits 

OUR MOTTO FAMILY TRADE A SPECIALTY 

A well pleased customer is 

our best advertisement PHONE 2417 

Ask Your Grocer for the 

Hedges-Buck Company's Brands 



Teas, Coffees and Spices 

THEY ARE THE BEST 



TRY THE NEW GROCERS 



DRURY & BARTHOLOMEW 
Fine Teas and Coffees 

A Specialty 

PHONE MAIN 314 

802 E. Weber Ave., Cor. Grant 

MORRIS BROS. 

THE LEADING STATIONERS 

THE BEST PLACE TO BUY A 

FOUNTAIN PEN 



STOCKTON MODESTO 

20 North El Dorado St. No. 920 I Street 

Phone Main 444 Phone 51 Black 



Know the Luxury TT^p nnlv "Knprrv's Rp<?t FflTnilv " 
of the Best Flour L>D1 ^ ^P^- 11 ^ H 111 J- 



14 SOUPS. 



hours. Strain and set aside to cool; then skim. 
Cook about 3 tablespoons rice and a tablespoon 
minced parsley in a little water; when partly cooked 
add to the hot stock, season with white pepper, more 
salt if needed, and a little celery salt and cook until 
done. An old chicken is always best for soup. The 
neck, the feet skinned and cracked, and giblets 
should always be added. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Place the oyster liquor on stove, adding a little 
water. At same time put on in another dish twice 
the amount of milk. Let both come to a boil. Place 
the oysters into the liquor and let boil up once; re- 
move, and add the scalding milk. Season with 
cream, butter, a little celery salt, if liked, white 
pepper and salt. Serve with crisp crackers. Some 
place a small amount of finely-rolled cracker 
crumbs in the plates and then pour on the soup. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

To 1 egg add as much sifted flour as it will ab- 
sorb with a little salt and 2 teaspoons of cold water; 
work in the flour with the fingers 10 or 15 minutes, 
mixing it as stiff as possible. Roll to a very thin 
sheet; dust lightly with flour, roll like jelly roll 
and leave a few minutes; then slice from the ends 
with a sharp knife, shake out the strips loosely, let 
dry an hour or two and then drop into hot beef or 
any other kind of soup and cook about 15 or 20 
minutes. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes, 2 cups milk, y 2 cup cream or 
milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, a dash of pep- 
per and celery salt. Cook potatoes untl very soft; 
drain and mash ; add beaten yolks, milk and season- 
ing. Cook in double boiler till it thickens, stirring 
all the time. Serve immediately. The eggs may 
be omitted by using 2y 2 tablespoons flour and 2y 2 
tablespoons butter instead. 

This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



WILKES 6c PEARSON 

GROCERS 

You would have better luck with these receipts if you 

use our 

w. ca p. BAKING POWDER 

PURE, SURE AND CHEAP 

HEADQUARTERS FOR 

FINE TEAS AND COFFEES 

17 and 19 North El Dorado St. Phone 1139 

THE RUHL-GOODELL CO. 

Hardware, Plumbing 
and Kitchen Utensils 

315-317-319 East Weber Avenue, Stockton, Cal. 

A. MOBATH F. W. GEBLACH 

Serlach <5c JTforath 

ffioots, Aoe$j jCeather and 



409-411 East Main Street. 
Telephone Main 2391. STOCKTON, CAL. 

We sell every Restaurant their 
Crockery, Glassware, Cutlery and 
Household Goods. Why Not You? 

2/ost~*Dohrmann Co. 

China Jffall 

The Largest Store in Stockton 



ifa 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 



16 SOUPS. 



PUREE OF POTATOES. Mrs. W. H. Woodbridge. 

Boil and mash in 2 quarts of water, 4 large pota- 
toes, 1 small onion, 2 stalks celery and sprig of 
parsley. When done pass through a sieve. Return 
to fire, season with salt, pepper and 2 tablespoons 
butter rubbed into 1 dessert spoon of flour. Boil all 
together once and turn into tureen over 1 cup of 
whipped cream. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. Mrs. Geo. Tatterson. 

Boil 1/2 dozen medium-sized potatoes; mash thor- 
oughly; mix with a quart of stock and season with 
salt and pepper. Boil for 5 minutes; remove scum 
and then add tumblerful of rich milk and serve as 
soon as soup has again come to a boil. Must be 
perfectly smooth. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Pare and cut potatoes into cubes; boil until ten- 
der; add a quart of milk and some salt. Mix 1 egg 
with as much flour as it will absorb; beat until it 
becomes like crumbs, then add to the soup. Just 
before serving put in some butter or cream. 

BEEF SOUP WITH OKRA. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Cut a round steak into small pieces and fry very 
brown in 3 tablespoons butter to which 1 sliced 
onion has been added. Place in a soup kettle with 
4 quarts of cold water and boil slowly for 1 hour, 
adding salt, pepper and 1 pint of sliced okra. Sim- 
mer 3!/2 hours. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take beef and cut into small pieces about 1 
inch square. Add salt and let stand about y 2 hour; 
then add 1 pint of cold water to 1 pound of meat, 
and let stand about 4 hours. This draws out all the 
juice. Put on back of stove and let it heat very 
slowly. Simmer about % hour. Strain and serve. 
In serving one may add an egg well beaten to a 
cup of the tea, stirring it in gradually so as not to 
curdle, and then add a little nutmeg. 

THE. RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



B= 



A Good Recipe Requires Good Utensils. 
Buy Them at 

JAMES T. MILLS 

FIRST-CLASS 

STOVES AND RANGES, TINWARE, ENAM- 
ELED WARE, ETC. ETC. 

32 East Main Street Phone Main 2367 STOCKTON. 
CHAS. MOREING O. D. CARSON 

CARSON & MOREING 

Dealers in 

GROCERIES 3EEPROVISIONS 

Telephone Main 72. 

N. W. Cor. San Joaquin and Channel Sts., Stockton, Cal. 
V 

SUflOLi STABLiES 

224 E. Market St. 
W. S. KELLY, Proprietor 

Lih/ei*y, peed and Boarding 

Gentle Horses for Ladies Driving. 

Special Attention Given to Transient and Boarding. 
Phone 3151 Main 

Merchants (Like the World) are getting 

better. 
Aint you glad we do not do as Moses did 

in 31st Numbers. 

HORNBEAK'S 



Use onl y "Sperrys Best Family." 



18 SOUPS. 



CREAM OF CARROT SOUP. 

Grate 3 good-sized carrots, cover with a pint of 
water. Add a slice of onion and a bay leaf, cover 
and simmer gently for 30 minutes. Remove the 
onion and bay leaf and add a quart of milk. 
Moisten a tablespoon of cornstarch in a little cold 
milk; add to the soup and stir until thick. Add a 
rounding teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of white 
pepper and just at serving time stir into the mix- 
ture 2 tablespoons of butter. Serve this soup just 
as soon as it is made. 

PEA SOUP. Miss Gurnee. 

One and one-third cups strained peas; 4 table- 
spoons flour; 2 tablespoons butter; 2 cups milk. 
Salt, pepper and celery salt to taste. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. Oakland Cooking School. 

One cup split peas, 3y 2 quarts water, 2 table- 
spoons chopped onion, y s teaspoon pepper, 3 table- 
spoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, iy 2 teaspoons 
salt, 1 pint milk. Wash peas and soak over night 
in 1 quart cold water drain and rinse thoroughly ; 
add 2 cups cold water and the onion, and cook 
slowly until soft ; then rub through strainer. Make 
white sauce of the milk, butter, flour, salt and pep- 
per. ( See White Sauce under Soup Stock. ) Add 
this liquid to it and cook till a proper consistency. 
Cooking a ham bone or a piece of ham with soup 
improves flavor of it. 

LETTUCE PUREE. Oakland Cooking School. 

One pint milk, 2 heads lettuce, salt, pepper to 
taste, 3 tablespoons butter. Wash lettuce and cook 
util soft in just enough water to keep from burn- 
ing say about 20 minutes chop fine, and press 
through sieve. Then make w T hite sauce of remain- 
der of ingredients (See White Sauce for Soup 
Stock), add lettuce and about % teaspoon celery 
salt and serve. 



Everyone Is Beading THE RECORD Why? 



m 

AGENCY TELEPHONE MAIN 99 

The Union Ice Company 

Standard Portland Cement 

Carnegie Fire Brick, Fire Clay and Brick Dust 

Yolland & Company 



INCORPORATED 



Wood, Coal Coke and Lime 

WHOLESALE RETAIL 

Cor. El Dorado and Channel Sts. 
DOBS THIS INTEREST YOU? 

The Acme Dairy Co. 

Produces all its milk and cream. 

The only dairy in Stockton delivering milk in bottles. 
We give especial attention to the production of milk for 
Infants and Invalids. 

Your patronage solicited. 

We invite you to inspect our dairy. 

Ring up Suburban 271. 

P. Centemeri & Co.'s Kid Gloves 

ARE THE BEST 
McCALL'S PATTERNS ARE RELIABLE 

Price 10 and 15 Cents 

SMITH & LANG, Agents 

DRY GOODS AND HOUSE FURNISHINGS 

124, 126, 128 E. Main Street. Telephone 1425 

F, W. DIETRICH PHONE MAIN 209 J, L. TAYLOR 

Stockton Coffee Co. 

TAYLOR & DIETRICH, Proprietors 

Teas, Coffees, Spices, Etc., Etc. 

340 E. MARKET STREET 
Alliance Building STOCKTON, CAL. 

88 



Know the Luxury T T C;P rmlv "Snprrv'<5 

of the Best Fiour. se om J perry s 



SOUPS. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

Into a quart of boiling water put a good handful 
of macaroni broken into inch pieces; let boil one 
hour slowly; then add 2 cups of strained tomatoes 
(cooked), and just before serving add y 2 cup of 
cream. 




Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



ffi= 



IflCKINBOTHAM BROTHERS 

Importers of 

Wagon and Carriage Material 

and Hardwood Lumber 

Wheels,^ Axles, Springs," 

,; Bolts, Steel Tire, Buggy Bodies, 

^ Tops, -'Cushions, f <Backs, ^Dashes. 
Carriage Hardwood, !|Etc.,*j|Etc. 

533-543 E. Market Street 

STOCKTON, CAL. 
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 

Woodford Canned Corn 

SWEET, TENDER, DELICIOUS 



USE 

BLUE BRAND 

HOBBS-PARSON CO. 

BURBANK POTATOES 



HOBBS-PARSONS CO. 

WHOLESALE FRUIT 
AND PRODUCE. . . . 

STOCKTON FRESNO 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



FISH 



BOILED FISH. 

A fish kettle is the proper dish in which to boil 
fish. When this is not at hand, wrap and pin in a 
cloth (some flour it), lay on a plate or sieve and 
place in a kettle. When done the fish may be lifted 
out gently by the cloth and thus removed to the 
platter. Some simply spread a napkin on the plate 
under the fish, leaving the four corners outside the 
kettle with which to lift it out. All large fish (ex- 
cept salmon, which is put on in hot water to pre- 
serve its color) should be put on in cold water. 
Fish should never be allowed to boil hard, but the 
water should be brought to the boiling point as 
quickly as possible, when all scum must be taken 
off, and the fish kept simmering until done. Allow 
five or ten minutes to the pound, according to thick- 
ness, and test by passing a knife along a bone, and 
if done the fish will separate easily. Remove as 
soon as done, or it will become woolly. Salmon 
and all dark-fleshed fish require longer boiling than 
white-fleshed fish. A little vinegar and salt added 
to the water in which fish is boiled, seasons the fish, 
and prevents the nutriment from being drawn out. 
Some consider steamed fish superior to boiled. Gar- 
nishes for fish are parsley, sliced lemons and 
sliced eggs. 

FISH WITH SAUCE. Mrs. H. Goodfriend. 

Tie some cloves, allspice, and shelled almonds 
in a cloth and boil with sliced celery, onion and 
carrot. When the almonds are tender, lay in the 
fish and let it simmer, at the same time adding a 
piece of butter and the juice of 1 lemon. When 
done, remove the fish. Stir the sauce left from the 
fish, very slowly into the well-beaten yolks of 2 
eggs. Place it on the fire and shake so as not to 
curdle. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help W r anted Page. 



J*. f. Cohn, SPresMent ff*Aon* /3S8 

f. J. CoAan, Ttyanayor 



Sterlinff Cloak and 



Sarments for jCadies 
and Children 



"Uailor Suits, jackets. Sbiris, Cloaks, Waists, 
and JTfillinory 



132 to J36 ast Ttyain JV., Stockton 

This space is reserved for 

AUSTIN BROTHERS 

They have the Largest 
Assortment of : : : 

Hardware and Cutlery 

CALL AND SEE THEM 

Main and American Sts., Stockton 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



24 FISH. 



FRIED FISH. 

To fry fish the fire must be hot enough to bring 
the fat to such a degree of heat as to sear the sur- 
face and retain the juices. As soon as the fish is 
browned, it may be set where it will cook slowly 
until done. 

FISH SAUCE. 

Make drawn butter; add to it a little finely- 
minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. 

DEVILED CRAB. Mrs. J. O. Derr. 

One-third crab, two-thirds crumbled bread or 
cracker, juice of 2 lemons, butter size of an egg, 2-3 
cup thin cream or milk, y 2 small onion, y 2 thumb 
nail red pepper, black pepper and salt to taste. 
Clean the crab shell thoroughly and fill with the 
mixture. Slice I lemon over the top and bake 26 
minutes. Two well-beaten eggs may be added to 
this recipe; the onion can be left out and a dash of 
Worcestershire sauce may be added if one desires a 
different flavoring. 

DEVILED CRAB. Mrs. C. W. Norton. 

Rub 1/2 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of 
flour together in a small pan on the stove; add l / 2 
pint cream. Stir until it has boiled about 2 min- 
utes; add the meat from 2 god sized crabs, picked 
fine, the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs mashed fine, 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley, salt and cayenne to 
taste. Put this mixture in shells ; brush over with 
beaten egg and sprinkle with fine bread crumbs. 
Put in a quick oven to brown. 

CLAM CHOWDER. Mrs. F. Viebrock. 

Let 1 cup clams and 1 cup hot water come to a 
boil. Place in skillet 3 slices fat salt pork or bacon 
and 1 large onion and fry brown. Add to clams; 
cook 15 minutes, then add 1 quart milk. When this 
boils add 1 cup cracker crumbs, and 3 small cooked 
potatoes, cubed. When ready to serve, salt to taste. 
Do not salt sooner or it will curdle. 



B 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



JVLet*ehant Tailot* 

224 East Main Street STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA 



Imported and Novelty Suitings My Specialty 




For up-to-date 
SHOES at 
Moderate Prices 

Go to 

DUNNE'S 

330-332 E. MAIN ST., 

Stockton, Cal. 
Telephone 2304. 



LEWIS CO. JOHNSON 
Men's Outfitters 



THE WARDROBE 
12O E. Main Street, Stockton, Cal. 

We have our own Orchard, and make 
a beautiful, pure and sweet : : : 



OLIVE OIL 



Try it the next time in your cooking and 
on your table. It costs no more, and 
is richer, nicer and better in every way. 

Your grocer has it, or at 

H. H. MOORE & SONS 



Cor. Sutter St. and Miner Ave. 



ft* 



STOCKTON, CAL. 



-ffi 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



26 FISH. 



BISQUE OF CRAB. 

Boil 1 onion and ^ chili pepper in 1 cup water 
for 20 minutes. Take out onion and pepper and 
add shredded meat of 1 crab and 1 pint milk. 
Thicken with scant tablespoon flour, moisten with 
milk, and season with salt and a small piece of 
butter. Serve hot. 

TO BAKE FISH WHOLE. 

After the fish has been properly cleaned and 
rinsed, wipe dry with a cloth and rub well inside 
with salt and white pepper. When large enough, 
stuff the fish with a bread dressing, seasoned to 
taste. Sew it or wind with a cord to keep it in form, 
and dredge well with salt, pepper and flour. The 
fish should be placed on a trivet, or on a large tin 
plate and set into the baking pan. This keeps it 
from burning, and it can be more easily dished 
in perfect form. Plenty of butter or oil should be 
used to prevent becoming dry and the fish should 
be frequently basted. After basting, dredge each 
time with a little salt, pepper, and flour. About 
15 minutes to the pound, should bake fish. Serve 
on hot platter garnished with parsley. Make gravy 
of drippings in the pan or use egg sauce. 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

Cut the fish into small pieces and freshen in cold 
water for several hours, or over night. When ready 
to cook place in fresh cold water and set on stove. 
Let come to a boil, very slowly; boil only 2 or 3 
minutes; pour off water; then cover with plenty 
of fresh milk and let slowly come to a boil again, 
then thicken with a little cornstarch or flour and 
let boil a few minutes, slowly. 

When done stir in a piece of butter or some 
cream, and some white pepper; let boil up once, 
then set on back of stove and add gradually a well- 
beaten egg, stirring all the time. Serve at once. 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest 



C. A. JOSSA 

Fine Stationery 

BIBLES FOUNTAIN PENS 

CARDS AND INVITATIONS ENGRAVED 

LATEST BOOKS 
327 East Main Street STOCKTON, CAL. 

SHOES 

for everybody and for all occasions. 

HUDSON CgL RING 

440 E. Main St., STOCKTON, CAL. 

Coal, Wood, Hay, Grain, Mill Feed 

For courteous treatment, honest dealing 
and prompt delivery call on : : : : 

ROWE & McMAHON 

640 East Weber Avenue, STOCKTON, CAL. 

Telephone 136 Main. 

We Rent You a Phonograph 

.00 



Victor Talking Machines 
Edison Phonographs 

SHclleil $ go. 



Phone 735. 33 E. Main Street. 



Trh This t ifTru f e rthest ' Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 
B 



28 FISH. 



EGG SAUCE. 

Thicken milk with flour and season with cayenne, 
butter and salt. Let boil sufficiently, and just be- 
fore serving, add finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
and a little parsley cut very fine. 

TARTARE SAUCE. Mrs. John Craig. 

Boil 1 teaspoon of finely chopped onion in 14 cup 
vinegar, 2 or 3 minutes; add 1/2 tablespoon butter, 
yolks of 4 eggs beaten and added very gradually. 
When it thickens, take from the stove and add 1 
teaspoon salt, pinch of cayenne pepper and % 
tablespoon chopped cucumber pickle. Serve hot 
with fish. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Put in a tumbler 6 small oysters, 2 drops tobasco 
sauce, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, I teaspoon onion 
juice, I saltepoon salt, 4 tablespoons tomato catsup. 
Place in a bowl of cracked ice. Should be made 
a half hour before serving. 

CODFISH CHOWDER. Mrs. F. W. Wurster. 

Fry a good sized piece of fat salt pork; add 1^2 
cups codfish, which has been soaked in cold water 
for about 3 hours, 2 large potatoes, peeled and 
sliced thin, 1 large onion peeled and sliced, y 2 ^ ea * 
spoon pepper, 1 pint mlk, and 6 crackers. Cook 
until tender. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Put 1 cup of codfish in cold water and let it sim- 
mer on stove till tender, then chop or mash fine; 
add 2 cups of hot well-seasoned mashed potatoes, 
with 1 or 2 well-beaten eggs, a little butter and 
milk. Shape into balls and fry quickly. 

CODFISH A LA CREME. 

One pound codfish, 2 ounces butter, 2 ounces 
flour, 1 ounce grated cheese, */> pint milk and 1 gill 
cream. Boil fish 20 minutes; remove skin and 
bones and break in rough pieces. Melt butter, 
add flour; heat milk and when it boils, add butter, 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



:THE: 



Holt Manufacturing Company 

( INCORPORATED ) 

Telephone, Private Exchange 1. 

Both Western Union and Pacific Postal Telegraph 

Wires in Our Office 

DEALERS IN 

Carriage and Wagon Material 
Iron, Steel and Coal 
Link Belting and Wrought Chain 
Leather Belting 
Hardwood Lumber 
Blacksmith's Supplies 
Jackson Feeder Chain 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Holt Bros. Combined Harvester 
Holt Bros. Traction Engines 
Original Stockton Wheels 
Sarven Patent and Plain Wood 

Hubs 

Bodies and Gears 
Harvester and Header Drapers 
Stockton Improved Scrapers 

STOCKTON : : CALIFORNIA 

a 



Be e st L F?o U u r r y Use only "Spciry's Best Family." 

m 



30 FISH. 



flour, cream and a little pepper. Place the fish in 
this sauce and boil 2 minutes; then put in a dish, 
sprinkle cheese over it and brown quickly. 

FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Select as many as required; wash well and soak 
all day in cold water, changing the water every few 
hours. In the morning drain off the water, wipe 
them dry, roll in flour, and fry them in butter. 
Serve with melted butter, poured over them, and 
garnished with parsley. 

FREED SMELTS. 

Clean the fish, leaving the heads on. Wash, and 
dry them; salt and pepper to taste and roll in flour. 
Fry a piece of fat salt pork in the fryingpan; take 
it out; add to the fat thus left, a piece of butter; 
when hot, lay in the fish and fry a delicate brown. 
Lay them on a hot platter, garnish and send to 
table at once. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. Mrs. Truscott. 

Place in a deep saucepan 2 pounds boiled lobster, 
cut in medium sized pieces, y 2 pint grape juice, a 
good sized piece of butter, and season with salt, 
nutmeg and a dust of red pepper. Cover closely and 
cook for 6 or 7 minutes. Beat together, in a bowl, 
1 pint of sweet cream and the yolks of 2 eggs. Add 
this to the lobster and serve very hot. 

FISH A LA DELMONICO. Mrs. Chas. Grunsky. 

Three cups cooked white fish, 4 tablespoons of 
butter, 4 tablespoons flour, y 2 teaspoon salt, pepper 
and lemon juice, sprig of parsley, slice of onion, 2 
cups milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs. Scald the milk with the onion 
and parsley added. Melt the butter ; add flour, pep- 
per and salt. Strain the milk and add gradually. 
Let boil until smooth, stirring continually. Beat 
yolks of eggs, and add. Place layer of fish in a 
buttered dish or into individual moulds; sprinkle 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



ICE CREAM WATER ICES SODA 
HIGH-GRADE CANDIES 




434 E. Main Street, Stockton, Cal. 



Telephone 2181 



BURNHAM & CO. 

Proprietors of 

NAUMKEAG BAKERY 

FINE BREAD, PIES AND CAKES 

PARTIES SUPPLIED. 

Boston Baked Beans and Brown Bread Every Saturday 
Afternoon. 

Corner Miner Avenue and Sutter Street., Stockton, Cal. 




109 South San Joaquin Street 



Ten Cents 
a Copy 

Why Pay More? 

J. 0. Yardlcy's 
Music Store 

PIANO TUNING A SPECIALTY 



TELEPHONE MAIN 935 

THE 

GEO. S. BLAKE, PROP. 

LIVERY, FEED AND SALE STABLE 
540 E. WEBER AVENUE 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

" ' 



32 FISH. 



with a few drops of lemon juice; cover with sauce; 
then put in another layer of fish, another of sauce; 
and so on, finishing with sauce. Sprinkle top. 
with buttered crumbs and bake y 2 hour in moderate 
oven. 

HALIBUT SAVOY. Mrs. T. N. Sundy. 

Make a sauce of 1 teaspoon each of butter and 
flour and 1 cup hot milk in which dissolve a small 
pinch of soda. Cook until smooth; add y 2 cup 
strained tomato juice, y 2 teaspoon onion juice, salt- 
spoon of salt, a dust of cayenne. Stir in last iy 2 
cups flaked, cooked fish. Toss and stir until fish is 
heated through. Serve on crisp buttered toast. 

BAKED MACKEREL. 

After the fish has been freshened, place in a 
kettle of boiling watei* ; let it boil 15 or 20 minutes, 
then remove with a skimmer. Remove the head 
and skin ; lay it in a baking tin and sprinkle with 
pepper, then pour over it a cup of sweet cream; 
set it in the oven and bake ten minutes; then serve. 

CREOLE CRAB. Mrs. E. F. Henderson. 

The meat of 1 good sized crab picked in small 
pieces ; put in kettle 1 large tableshpoon of half lard 
and half butter; add to this a clove of garlc (or 
small piece of onion, if preferred) and cook until 
slightly brown. Pour into this I quart of tomato; 
season well with salt and red pepper, and cook for 
20 minutes ; add the crab ; allow it to get thoroughly 
heated and serve immediately, with the top gar- 
nished with small pieces of green pepper. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Dip in beaten egg, then in rolled cracker, season 
with salt and pepper; fry 1 minute in deep fat, or 
in a little hot butter, browning them nicely on both 
sides. Serve with small slices of lemon and garnish 
with parsley. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



Abe Lincoln would say: 

We have endless varieties of BLANKETS 

part of the time 
We have slightly damaged Blankets most 

of the time 
We sell them all cheaper than you can buy 

them elsewhere all of the time 

RETAIL DEPARTMENT 

STOCKTON WOOLEN MILL CO. 

Telephone 2069. 
PHONE MAIN 647 W. E. KENT, MANAGER 

Peerless Cash Store 

AMADOR MILLING CO., IONE 

PROPRIETORS 

Groceries, Provisions, Flour, Grain and Feed 

PEERLESS FLOUR A SPECIALTY 

312 E. MARKET STREET STOCKTON, CAL. 

E. CORMENY 



DEALER IN 



Groceries and Provisions 

FRUITS, NUTS AND CANDIES 

COLD DRINKS IN SEASON 

Cor. Main and Stanislaus Streets, Stockton, Cal. 

PHONE 1720 MAIN 



only "Sperry's Best Family." 

5 



34 FISH. 



E8CALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put a layer of cracker crumbs in a buttered dish, 
then a layer of oysters, butter size of egg, y 2 pint 
milk, 2 eggs; stir the eggs into milk, and pour the 
liquor on last of all. Bake about 20 minutes. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Scald 2 dozen oysters and drain. To the liquor, 
add 1 pint cream; thicken with 2 tablespoons flour, 
creamed with 2 tablespoons butter. Season with 
pepper and salt. Lastly, add oysters. 

MOCK OYSTERS. Mrs. Geo. Condict. 

One can corn, y 2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs 
and enough flour to make a stiff batter ; drop by the 
spoonful into a well-buttered fryingpan. 




Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



Eg! 

LOUIS J. WAGNER Slaughter Houses 

J. K. WAGNER Waterloo Road 

Phone Main 5 

WAGNER MEAT CO. 

AVENUE MEAT MARKET 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

BUTCHERS AND STOCK MEN 

Cor. Weber Avenue and American St., STOCKTON, CAL. 

Phone Main 146 

San Joaquin Valley Building 

and Loan Association 

Stock Issued at Any Time to 
Borrowers or Non-Borrowers 
Monthly Dues at $1 per Share 

NOBLE & REID 

11 SOUTH HUNTER STREET STOCKTON, CAL. 

O. H. CLOSE 

The Leading 

BOOH AND STATIONERY DEALER 

of Stockton. 

123 East Main Street, STOCKTON, CAL. 

Telephone 915 

JOHN ROGERS BENJ. C. WALLACE 

ROGERS & WALLACE 
FUNERAL DIRECTORS 

Embalming a Specialty. First-class Service. 
We Guarantee the Best Service for the Money in 
Stockton. The only White Funeral Car in the 
City. Lady Assistant. 

118-122 North California Street, STOCKTON, CAL. 

Telephone 2591 



Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



38 SALADS. 



SALADS 



HINTS ON SALADS. 

The excellence of salads depends on the perfect 
freshness of the materials used. All vegetables 
should be fresh, crisp and cold. Wash celery and 
lettuce well, shake dry and place in ice-chest until 
needed. All salads, except potato, should be served 
as soon as mixed to prevent their becoming watery. 
It is better to use a sharp knife to cut all ingredi- 
ents, instead of chopping them. A delicate flavoj: 
of garlic may.be imparted to salads by rubbing a 
clove of it on the bowl in which it is to be served, 
or in the dish in which the dressing is to be mixed. 
In making mayonnaise dressing, the dish used and 
all the ingredients should be thoroughly chilled 
before beginning. In making cooked dressing, 
great care must be taken to prevent curdling or 
lumping. Always set the vessel in a pan of hot 
water to cook; stir constantly till it thickens and 
remove immediately from fire. 

A POET'S SALAD. 

To make this condiment your poet begs 

The powdered yellow of two boiled eggs; 

Two boiled potatoes passed through the kitchen sieve, 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give; 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl 

And, half suspected, animate the whole; 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon 
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon; 

But, deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, 

To add a double quantity of salt; 

Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town; 

And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 

A magic soup'con of anchovy sauce. 

Oh, green and glorious! Oh, herbaceous treat! 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



J; STOP ! 



STOP ! ! 



STOP ! ! ! 



PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP 

Q. TJ 

TJ 

TJ 
TJ 
TJ 

o 

TJ 
TJ 
TJ 
TJ 
TJ 



Stop cooking nice things? No. Stop your 
Hair from falling, the scalp from itching 
and Dandruff from forming. 



50 Cents "CRINOLA" 

Crinola is the Best Scalp and Hair 
preparation on the market. 



Q. 
Q. 
Q. 

i 
ft, 
Q. 
0. 
0. 

QL 

Q. 
{L 
Q. 

ft, 
Q. 
Q. 
PL 
Q. 
Q. 

- Telephone Main 192 
0. 



Bottle 



( TOOTHACHE CREME stops the 
}? ] Toothache instantly. Price 25c. 
"\ CORN CURE cures the Corn 
I while you sleep. Price 15c. 

No cooking required in the above preparations. 

PATTERSON'S PHARMACY 



441 East Main Street 



TJ 

0. T 

ddddddddddddddddddddddddddd 

SAMSON IRON WORKS 

Manufacturers of 

Gas, Gasoline, Distillate and Crude 
Oil Engines, Centrifugal Pumps 



Irrigating Plants put in. 



STOCKTON, CAL. 




w< 

Our Celebrated 



Wedgewood 
Cook Stoves 



to give you the very best results on all recipes. 

PAHL &t HARRY 

33 S. Sutter Street. Phone 2321. 



If it isn't "gperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



38 SALADS. 



POTATO SALAD. Mrs. E. J. Matteson. 

Boil sufficient number of potatoes with skins on ; 
boil 2 or 3 eggs according to quantity desired ; chop 
very fine some crisp celery and onion, also part of 
the eggs, reserving some to garnish salad. Remove 
skins from potatoes and slice very thin; add chop- 
ped celery and onion, salt and pepper to taste, a 
little vinegar and plenty of sweet, rich cream. 

POTATO SALAD. Mrs. D. Watson, Benicia. 

Boil potatoes with jackets on, putting on in cold 
water. When cooked, pour off water and place in 
cold water until cold; then peel and slice. Chop 
one small onion very fine; put a layer of potato 
and sprinkling of onion, alternately. Dilute vine- 
gar and water (y 2 cup or little more) ; pour over 
potatoes and let stand over night; then drain and 
use salad dressing to taste. 

CABBAGE SALAD. Miss Florence Padgham. 

Shred nice crisp cabbage and pour over it, just 
before serving, the following dressing: Beat y 2 
cup sweet thick cream with y 2 cup sugar, add a 
little salt and y 2 cup vinegar. 

CABBAGE SALAD. Mrs. G. W. Grupe. 

Chop cabbage and mix with it the following 
dressing: Three eggs, well beaten, 6 tablespoons 
cream, 1 tablespoon salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon 
mustard. Put 1 tablespoon butter in dish to heat 
and add the other ingredients mixed with y 2 cup 
of vinegar. Cook until thick and smooth, and use 
when cold. 

PLAIN TOMATO SALAD. 

Select large round tomatoes of uniform size, 1 
for each person, scald and peel them. Score each 
one across the top with a knife, dividing into quar- 
ters half way through the tomato, so the parts will 
spread open. Place each on a bed of lettuce leaves 
and garnish with a spoonful of thick mayonnaise 
in the center. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



Dry. Goods, Millinery, Ladies' and Children's 
Ready-to- Wear Garments 

Southeast Corner Main and Hunter Streets, Stockton, Cal. 
AGENTS STANDARD PAPER PATTERNS 



YO SEMITE GROCERY 

301-307 E. Weber Avenue. 
Telephone Main 183. STOCKTON, CAL. 



1. HEALD'S BUSINESS COLLEGE, 

1451 Franklin Street 

San Francisco, Cal. 

2. HEALD'S SCHOOL OF MINES AND ENGINEERING, 

299 Locust Avenue, 

San Francisco, Cal. 

3. HEALD'S STOCKTON BUSINESS COLLEGE, 

Stockton, Cal. 

4. HEALD'S STOCKTON SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING, 

Stockton, Cal. 

5. HEALD-DIXON COLLEGE, 

Bacon Block, 

Oakland, Cal. 

6. HEALD-CHESTNUTWOOD BUSINESS COLLEGE 

AND NORMAL SCHOOL, 

Fresno, Cal. 

7. HEALD-CHESTNUTWOOD BUSINESS COLLEGE, 

Santa Cruz, Cal. 

CAPITALIZATION, $250,000.00 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

BE 



40 SALADS. 



COLD SLAW. 

Tender cabbage leaves crisped in cold salted 
water, drained and chopped fine, adding more salt. 
Let stand % hour, then press out all the moisture 
by squeezing with the hands. Add a little sugar, 
red pepper, vinegar and some cream, either sweet 
or sour, mixing it well with the cabbage before 
adding the vinegar, which should be put in slowly 
while stirring. 

MACAROXI SALAD. Mrs. D. A. Mobley. 

Boil white macaroni until tender in salted water; 
when done, plunge it into cold water and drain 
thoroughly. Cut into half inch lengths and mix 
with it chopped celery and cold boiled eggs in equal 
proportions. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. 

SHRIMP-TOMATO SALAD. Miss Padgham. 

Select nice firm tomatoes, scald and peel, cut off 
the top and remove the soft inside part to form a 
cup. Shred shrimps; mix them with mayonnaise 
and fill the tomato cups with them. Serve 1 tomato 
to each person on a bed of lettuce leaves with a 
large spoonful of mayonnaise on top of each. Chop- 
ped celery and shredded lettuce may be added to 
the shrimps. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. Mrs. Keagle. 

Six large tomatoes, remove pulp and fill with the 
following stuffing: Four chopped cucumbers, a 
little chopped onion (and green pepper if liked), 
seasoned with pepper, salt, oil and vinegar. Serve 
with mayonnaise on crisp lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO ASPIC SALAD. Miss Maude Eaves. 

One quart of tomatoes, stewed and strained ; add 
I teaspoon each of salt and sugar, 1/2 teaspoon pap- 
rika, 1 slice of onion, a few bay leaves, a stalk of 
celery and let boil a minute ; add ^4 b x f gelatine 
soaked in 1/2 cup of water; stir until dissolved, add- 
ing the juice of 1 lemon; strain into small cups to 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



Telephone Main 95 

Stockton 
City Laundry 

(Incorporated) 

A. SELLMAN, President 
HERMAN C. MEYER, Manager 

22 North Grant St. 



Ladies' and Gents' 
Fine Work is our 
Specialty. 



Suits Cleaned and 
Pressed. 



Have you ever noticed 
that there is always one 
good store in every city? 

A store where you can 
enter in perfect confidence 
and feel that you will be 
well treated and your 
wants promptly attended to 



D. S. Rosenbaum & Son 

Leading Clothiers 
Main and Sufter 
Stockton, Calif. 



=a 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



42 SALADS. 



mould. A few English walnut meats may be sliced 
and put in each cup if liked. Serve on lettuce 
leaves, garnished with mayonnaise. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and slice fresh cucumbers; salt well and set 
aside for % hour; drain, add red pepper, vinegar 
and some cream, added very carefully to prevent 
curdling. 

NUT SALAD. Mrs. G. W. Grupe. 

One cup chopped nuts, 2 cups cabbage, y 2 CU P 
cream, mixed with the following dressing: Four 
eggs, 2 teaspoons each of sugar and salt, 1 teaspoon 
each of celery seed and mustard, y 2 teaspoon pep- 
per and butter size of an egg. Mix thoroughly with 
1 cup vinegar, cook till thick; cool and mix with 
cabbage and nuts. 

CELERY, APPLE AND NUT SALAD. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Cut crisp celery in thin crescent pieces; peel and 
core tart apples, divide into eighths and slice cross- 
wise into thin slices; crumble pecans or walnuts. 
Take equal parts of celery and apple, and y part 
nuts; mix with salad dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves, covering with mayonnaise and garnishing 
with thin rings or crescents of red apples and the 
celery tips. 

NORMANDY SALAD. Mrs. V. K. Chestnut, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Take equal parts of cooked green peas and pecan 
kernels, the latter cut in small pieces. Mix with 
mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD. Mrs. M. H. Orr. 

Boil the chicken tender ; when cold chop the meat 
rather coarse; chop the celery. Take 1 quart of 
chicken, 1 pint of celery and 1 teaspoon salt. Mix 
all well together with sufficient dressing to moisten 
and serve on lettuce leaves with either mayonnaise 
or cooked dressing. 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



= 



Stockton 



Bakery 



QRAVEM BROS, 



Best Goods 
Best Service 



Phone Main 2325 



Cor. Lindsay and 
Aurora Sts. 




H. J. KUECHLER 

MANUFACTURING JEWELER 



Main Corner California Street 

Artistic Engraving and Fine Watch Repairing- a 
Specialty. 



The Th1f ifTrue rthest ' Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



44 SALADS. 



MOCK CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take a piece of nice firm veal; cook tender in 
small quantity of water, and allow to cool in the 
water in which it has been cooked; salt well while 
cooking. When cool, drain it and remove all gristle 
or fat; chop and substitute all or part for chicken 
and prepare with celery the same as chicken salad. 

SHRIMP SALAD. Mrs. C. E. Moorhead. 

Two cups finely chopped celery, 1 cup shredded 
lettuce, 14 cup chopped olives, 1 can shrimps broken 
in pieces, 2 tablespoons capers, whites of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, 2 tablespoons mayon- 
naise. Mix thoroughly; garnish with lettuce and 
dressing. Crab may be substituted for shrimps. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Carefully free from all bits of shell 1 can of lob- 
ster; shred it; add 1-3 part shredded lettuce or cel- 
ery and mix with mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with spoonful of the dressing on top. The 
lettuce and celery may be left out, using the lobster 
alone, if preferred. 

CRAB SALAD. Mrs. L. F. Herrick. 

For six persons, take 1 crab, shred meat fine and 
add to it one-third quantity of crisp celery cut in 
small pieces (not chopped) ; mix with a little may- 
onnaise, and serve on crisp, light, lettuce leaves. 
Before serving add a teaspoonful of mayonnaise 
to each dish. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten; add 5 even table- 
spoons mustard, 6 of sugar, 2 of salt, 8 tablespoons 
of oil or melted butter, a few drops at a time, 18 
tablespoons milk, 17 tablespoons of vinegar. Boil 
to the consistency of soft custard ; remove from fire 
and let stand for 5 minutes; then add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat all well. 
This dressing will keep some time if sealed in a 
fruit jar and kept in a cool place. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 




Columbia Dental Parlors 



EVERYTHING IN THE 
DENTAL LINE 

Main and Hunter Streets, Stockton, Cal. 




ARE TO BE HAD OF 



JACKSON & EARLE 

Cor. Sutter and Main Sts. STOCKTON, CAL. 

SUNOL .'. SHOEING .'. SHOP 

J. H. McLEOD, Proprietor 

(Formerly of Palo Alto) 

35 S. San Joaquin St., Bet. Main and Market 

STOCKTON, CAL. 

THE OWL GROCERY 

GOOD GOODS RIGHT PRICES 

COURTEOUS TREATMENT 
341-347 E. Weber Avenue Phone 821 

ffi 



Know the Luxury TTcp nnlv "Srw^rrvV "Rat Fnmilv " 

of the Best Fiour. use om y fcperr^ s sesi i 1 amiiy. 



SALADS. 



OYSTER SALAD. Mrs. T. N. Sundy. 

One quart of oysters cooked in their own liquor 
until the edges curl; drain them, and add a table- 
spoon of oil, 1 of vinegar or lemon juice, salt and 
pepper ; place in the ice-chest. Just before serving, 
drain the oysters again and mix with them 1 pint 
of chopped or cut celery, and pour mayonnaise 
dressing over the whole. 

STUFFED EGG SALAD. Mrs. F. W. Wurster. 

Boil 9 eggs hard and put in cold water to prevent 
their turning dark; when cold, remove shell and 
cut in half lengthwise; remove the yolks and mash. 
Pit and chop fine about y 2 CU P f olives (ripe ones 
are preferable), bone 1 small can best sardines and, 
chop ; add all to the mashed yolks and moisten with 
mayonnaise dressing. Put this mixture back into 
the cavities of the whites; serve on lettuce leaves, 
garnished with mayonnaise. Chopped boiled ham 
may be substituted for sardines. Allow 3 half eggs 
to each person. 

EGG SALAD. (Plain.) 

Cold boiled eggs, either sliced or chopped, and 
placed on lettuce leaves. Cover with dressing. 

BEEF SALAD. Miss Lucile Moore, Grass Valley. 

Chop any cold meat very fine; to each y 2 pint add 
1 tablespoon tomato catsup, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons olive oil; mix thoroughly, adding a 
little at a time; add 1 tablespoon vinegar. Peel 
and scoop out center of several nice tomatoes; fill 
with mixtures; cover top of each with finely chop- 
ped parsley or cress. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

DUCHESSE SALAD DRESSING. Miss Maude Eaves. 

Yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a pinch of salt, 2 
teaspoons mustard mixed with 6 tablespoons milk ; 
add the yolks and then add 6 tablespoons vinegar. 
Boil and stir till smooth ; add 6 tablespoons oil and 
a dash of cayenne; cool and add the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECCED. 




Furniture and Carpets 



"The Store That Saves You Money." 



410, 412, 414 East Main Street 
Telephone 2182 STOCKTON, CAL. 



M. McCormick Company 



WHOLESALE 
AND RETAIL 

BUTCHERS 



Telephone 36. 
Main and Center Streets, STOCKTON. 




"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 



48 SALADS. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

One level tablespoon dry mustard, 1 of salt, 1 
teaspoon sugar, 1 rounded teaspoon cornstarch, 2 
shakes of cayenne. Mix these together; add slowly 
4 tablespoons oil, 3 thoroughly beaten eggs, 1 cup 
vinegar, and 1 cup rich milk or cream. Cook in 
double boiler, stirring constantly until thick as cus- 
tard. Will keep a long time. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. Mrs. O. M. Rowland. 

Two tablespoons mustard, 1 teaspoon salt and 1 
teaspoon sugar. Scald these with just enough water 
to mix; pour in slowly all the oil the mustard will 
absorb; add y 2 cup vinegar; beat thoroughly and 
add 2-3 cup cream or rich milk. Cook until it thick- 
ens. Cool and put in jar. 

MRS. COLLINS' SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup of vinegar put on stove; 2 eggs well- 
beaten, 3 teaspoons made mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 pinch cayenne, 1 small half cup oil,* 1/2 teaspoon 
sugar. Beat all well together. On 1 tablespoon 
flour pour gradually 1 cup milk ; pour this into first 
mixture and let come to a boil, stirring constantly. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

One cup sour cream, y 2 cup vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard, 3 eggs, butter 
size of egg, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Mix 
cream and beaten eggs; dissolve sugar, mustard, 
salt and pepper in vinegar; stir slowly into cream 
and eggs; put in double boiler, until thickened. 
When done, add butter, cook about 5 minutes more; 
then take from fire and bottle. Will keep for 
months. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. Mrs. C. W. Norton. 

One beaten egg, y 2 cup vinegar; beat this and add 
y 2 teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon mustard, dash of pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar. Cook in double boiler and 
stir constantly until smooth. When cold add y 2 cup 
of thick sweet cream. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



SALADS. 49 

CREAM MAYONNAISE. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

Mix 1 large tablespoon butter, 4 of vinegar, y 2 
teaspoon salt, y 2 teaspoon of dry mustard, y 2 tea- 
spoon sugar and a little black pepper (or a dash 
of cayenne, if preferred). Mix thoroughly and 
place the dish in a pan of boiling water over the 
fire. Stir carefully until very hot, add 1 or 2 well- 
beaten eggs and stir until thick ; then add y 2 pint of 
cream and beat until smooth. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Mrs. W. P. Steinbeck. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs slightly ; then add oil a 
few drops at a time, stirring constantly until it is 
as thick as jelly; add I small teaspoon of salt, a 
little at a time, while stirring in the oil, a pinch of 
mustard, y 2 teaspoon sugar and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Then add vinegar or lemon juice to taste. 
If it should curdle while stirring in the oil, add a 
little of the unbeaten white of egg and stir until 
smooth again. This quantity will make a pint or 
more of dressing. 

SAI>AD DRESSING. Mrs. G. W. Tatterson. 

Six eggs well beaten. Mix 3 teaspoons mustard, 
3 teaspoons sugar, 2 teaspoons salt and add to eggs. 
Boil 18 tablespoons of vinegar and same of water 
and pour slowly into the mixture, stirring con- 
stantly. Stir over the fire until slightly thickened; 
remove before it curdles. When cold add 1 cup 
whipped cream. 



Use on 'y "Sperry's Best Family." 



EGGS 



HOW TO KEEP EGGS. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Four quarts air-slacked lime, 2 tablespoons crearn 
tartar, 2 tablespoons salt, 4 quarts cold water. Mix 
and let stand over night. Pack eggs, large end 
down, and cover with the pickle. Cover closely and 
put in cool placa Eggs put away in this way will 
keep perfectly fresh for months. Do not wash eggs 
before putting down. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Cover completely with cold water the required 
number of eggs; let them come to a boil and stay 
for about y 2 minute, then remove. This makes an 
even soft boiled egg. Another way is to place the 
eggs in boiling water ; cover tightly and set on back 
of stove and leave 10 minutes. For the ordinary 
quick soft boiled egg, place in boiling water and 
boil 3 minutes. 

BAKED OB FRIED OMELET. 

One cup milk, 4 eggs beaten separately, I table- 
spoon flour dissolved in a little milk, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter. Mix all together, 
except the whites of the eggs, and pour into a dou- 
ble boiler. Stir until it commences to thicken, then 
add the well-beaten whites gradually and pour into 
a buttered dish, and bake until an even brown. 
Must be served immediately. 

ORANGE OMELET. Mrs. Ewing. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
whites to a stiff froth and yolks very light. Add 
2 teaspoons orange juice to yolks and beat well; 
beat 1 teaspoon sugar into whites. Mix all to- 
gether, add a pinch of salt; put into a hot buttered 
pan ; set on top of stove until the bottom is set, then 
place in moderate oven for 5 or 6 minutes till the 
top is cooked. 
as a 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



EGGS. 51 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break carefully into a cup ; have the water salted 
and boiling. Slide the egg carefully into the boil- 
ing water. Cover and remove to back of the stove 
until the egg sets. Serve on slices of toast. 

BAKED EGGS. Mrs. F. B. Clarke. 

Break eggs carefully into a greased pie tin until 
the bottom of tin is covered ( crowding a little does 
not injure them). On top of each egg place a bit 
of butter, pepper and salt and place in oven until 
the whites are set. Serve in the same dish. 




SS 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



POULTRY 



SUGGESTIONS FOB POULTRY OB GAME. 

The best poultry has firm flesh, and yellow feet 
and legs. If one desires to save the feathers, it is 
better to pick the fowl while the body is warm. 
After it has become cold pour boiling water over 
the fowl, taking care that the water touches all 
parts. Take the fowl in both hands, and rub back 
and forth a few times. The feathers and pin 
feathers of turkeys and chickens will come off 
together. Hub wings between thumb and finger. 
Have patience in plucking wild game, as ducks, for 
instance, are covered with down. Singeing will 
assist in removing same. To singe fowl, light a 
lagre piece of paper and turn fowl in the blaze, or 
light a gas fire and use instead of paper. Place 
on a board and use great care in removing entrails. 
Keep the liver, gizzard and heart. Remove legs 
and wings at joint close to body. Cut legs again 
at second joint. 

Make an incision about two inches from rump. 
Separate breast from back by following line of 
breast bone. Cut breast through center. Flatten 
back and cut in similar manner. Hot water is 
better than cold in which to wash fowl, for the heat 
closes the pores of the flesh and thus the rich juices 
are retained. Use a litle salt in the water. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out if the fowl is to be cooked 
whole. Wipe with a cloth and rub a little salt on 
the inside. Hang in a cool place until used. Fowl 
is better if prepared the day before it is to be 
cooked. Roast turkey or chicken is much improved 
by steaming until tender, and then finish by roast- 
ing. Stuff the fowl before steaming, taking care 
not to have it too full, as the dressing will swell. 
Wild game should be soaked in salted water for 
several hours, before cooking. Cook in any man- 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



POULTRY. 53 



ner after parboiling it. Turn boiling water over 
the feet and legs of chickens and turkeys and the 
skin peels off easily. Place them with the giblets 
in cold water to cook. Part of them can be used for 
soup and part for the gravy. 

In making chicken pie place a cup bottom side up 
in center of pan, after the latter is lined with crust. 
Pour in meat and gravy. Put upper crust in place 
and bake. The cup retains the gravy and keeps 
under crust from being "soggy." Try it. 

To sweeten tainted meat or game, rub it over with 
baking soda and water. Rinse off quickly. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKENS, ETC. 

Take stale bread and pour over it enough milk 
to soak. Let stand until milk is absorbed. Press 
out bread. Put 1-3 cup butter in fry-pan ; add to it 
a little onion, finely chopped. Keep stirring until 
it reaches a golden brown, then put m the bread, 
into which has been mixed some very finely chop- 
ped parsley. Stir all thoroughly so that the butter 
and onions mix well with the bread. When heated 
through take from stove, season with salt and per-, 
per. A little sage may be added if one cares for it. 
But superior without. Omit the onion if desired. 

BEST WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

Put a large piece of butter into meat roaster ; set 
on the stove to get very hot, but not burn; cut 
chicken as for frying ; season with salt and pepper ; 
roll in flour and sear each piece in the hot butter; 
then add water to nearly cover the chicken; fasten 
down cover of roaster and put into the oven till 
tender. To the gravy add half a cup of sweet 
cream. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

A delicious chicken fricassee may be made as 
follows: Cut the chicken into separate portions; 
the legs, wings, second joints, the breast into halves 
lengthwise, the back likewise, and the neck. After 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



54 POULTRY. 



washing off inside and out and cleansing the gib- 
lets, put all into a stewpan with boiling water to 
cover, adding an onion and a stalk of chopped cel- 
ery with the root, also, or soup celery, if stalk cel- 
ery cannot be procured. Simmer until tender, then 
remove the chicken to the hot serving platter and 
place it in the oven with the door slightly open 
while preparing the gravy. Strain the liquor and 
put it over the fire again, adding half a pint of very 
rich milk; when it boils up, thicken with blended 
flour and butter, a tablespoon of each, stirring to a 
smooth consistency, then add a tablespoon of 
minced parsley. Let all simmer for a couple of 
minutes, and on the moment of removing from the 
fire, whisk in a cup of rich cream, and serve. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. Mrs. J. A. Sanford. 

Wash and cut up the chicken ; put on the fire in a 
stew-pan, with warm water enough to cover, add 
salt and pepper to taste, and two sticks of celery; 
cook until tender. Have hot baking powder biscuits 
broken open and laid on the platter; lay on the 
pieces of chicken. To thicken the gravy, take one 
heaping tablespoon of flour, the same of butter ; put 
over the fire and cook together one minute; rub 
smooth with very little cold water; then pour the 
hot broth on this until you have sufficient gravy; 
put over the fire and cook a few minutes ; then pour- 
over the chicken and serve. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. Mrs. J. A. Sanford. 

Wash and cut up the chicken, and wipe dry; 
put on the fire in a stew-pan, one tablespoonful of 
olive oil, and one of butter; put in a small piece 
of onion cut fine; put in the chicken and fry; watch 
carefully that it does not burn. When fried, cover 
with warm water and cook tender. 

FRIED CHICKEN. Mrs. J. A. Sanford. 

Take young chicken; cut into small pieces; put in 
a pan with cup of warm water; season with salt 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



m 

POULTRY. - 55 



and pepper; stew until tender, and it absorbs the 
broth. Put in with chicken, three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, or clarified butter and lard, and fry. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

1 chicken boiled until bones can be easily re- 
moved. When cold, chop fine, Add butter size of 
an egg. Season with salt, pepper and sage. Stir 
all together and press in any shape. Cut in slices 
and serve cold. Nice for picnics. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken until tender; remove bones and 
chop. Place in a pan a layer of chicken; season 
with pepper, salt, bits of butter, and finely chop- 
ped ham; cover with a layer of cracker crumbs. 
Repeat layers until dish is nearly filled. Add 1 
pint of cream and milk to fill the pan. Bake a deli- 
cate brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. H. Maude Eaves. 

Two cups chicken, cooked and chopped, three 
teaspoons butter, three teaspoons flour, one cup 
stock, three tablespoons lemon juice, one cup cream, 
two cups bread crumbs, two teaspoons salt. To the 
stock add the butter and flour (creamed), and beat 
until it thickens; add chicken, salt, lemon, and a 
little pepper, bread crumbs, and two beaten eggs. 
Add the cream after taking from the fire. Shape 
into cones ; drop into hot lard and fry a rich brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. L. M. Moore. 

One and 1/2 CU P S f ^ ne bread crumbs soaked in 
1/2 cup of sweet cream. Cut fine 1 cupful of chicken. 
Mix this with the crumbs, and to each cup add one 
egg. reason with salt and pepper; form in shape, 
and roll in cracker 'crumbs and egg. Fry in very 
hot lard. 

CHICKEN PIE. Mrs. J. A. Sanford. 

Boil until very tender young or old chickens in 
just enough water to stew them; season them with 
salt, pepper, and a little celery. Make a puff paste; 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

m ' 



56 POULTRY. 



line the sides of a deep dish; when the chicken is 
done, put it into the dish, thicken the gravy with 
flour, let it boil up, and pour the gravy over the 
chicken in the dish ; put in a small piece of butter. 
If you want it very nice, add a half can of oysters ; 
cover with the puff paste, and bake quickly. 
CHICKEN PIE. Mrs. Mary Tatterson. 

Crust: Two quarts Sour, I teaspoon salt, 2 heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder. Sift together 3 times. 
Two-thirds cup lard and butter size of au egg, 
rubbed thoroughly into flour. Moisten with cold 
milk, a little at a time, and mix with a knife until 
flaky. Cut into 2 pieces, one larger than the other. 
Roll larger piece and cover bottom, sides and rim 
of pan. Roll smaller piece for top crust, making 
incisions to let air out. Two chickens cleaned, cut 
by the joints and wash thoroughly. Place in stew- 
pan, cover with cold water, add salt and cook until 
tender. Drain and thicken gravy. Into the crust- 
lined pan place a layer of chicken (bones pointing 
toward center), add pepper, salt and ^2 CU P gravy- 
Arrange each layer the same until pan is filled. 
Cover with top crust. Pinch the edge all around 
and bake. When pie is baked make an incision in 
center and fill with hot gravy. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Take a chicken (young), cut up, dredge with 
flour on both sides, and pepper and salt. Put into 
a fry-pan, containing about 3 tablespoons of hot 
butter. Let it sear over a little on both sides, then 
add considerable water a large cupful or more. 
Cover closely and set on back of stove and let it 
simmer slowly, turning before done. Manage to 
have it golden brown on both sides when cooked. 
A little more water may have to be added. Serve 
with a rich, light brown gravy, poured over the 
chicken, and made by putting water into pan, 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



POULTRY. 57 

thickening with little flour, and seasoning with 
pepper, salt and a little cream. This is delicious if 
cooked carefully and takes from % to l 1 ^ hours to 
cook chicken, according to age of bird. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Split a young chicken straight down the back. 
Rub it well with butter on both sides, and sprinkle 
generously with pepper, salt and flour. Place in 
covered baking pan, and put in oven about 1 hour. 
Just a little water should be kept in baking pan, 
so that the steam will cook it. If at end of time 
it is not a golden brown all over, remove lid for a 
few minutes, baste and turn, but do not let it be- 
come dry or too brown. Make a rich gravy and pour 
over chicken when ready to serve. 

COLD ROAST CHICKEN. Mrs. S. A. Borland. 

Prepare full-grown chicken. Butter a paper and 
wrap closely around it. Set on wire stand in bak- 
ing pan with a little water. Bake 2 hours. Re- 
move paper and let chicken brown. Remove from 
pan and set aside to cool. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cut cold roasted, or boiled chicken, or fowl into 
small pieces, and place in an earthen dish. Season 
well with salt, pepper, and the juice of a fresh 
lemon. Let the meat stand an hour; then make a 
fritter batter, and stir the pieces into it; drop by 
the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry till a light 
brown. Drain, and serve immediately. Any ten- 
der cold meat can be used this way. 

DEVILED CHICKEN. Mrs. Robert Inglis. 

Cut the meat from a cold roasted, or boiled 
chicken, or turkey, into long strips. Let these re- 
main for 3 hours in a liquid composed of 2-3 olive 
oil and 1-3 lemon juice. Drain, pepper and salt 
them, roll in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, and 
fry a delicious brown. Serve with a sauce piquante 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



58 SALADS. 



of melted butter, lemon juice, French mustard, 
and a dash of paprika, 

POTTED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut up a young chicken. Put into a deep pot 
2 ounces of butter; when melted put in the chicken 
and cook very slowly until a delicate brown, turn- 
ing once in a while; add salt, pepper and a little 
boiling water when necessary to keep from burning. 
About 15 minutes before serving add 14 lb fresh 
mushroom ; simmer slowly and when done, thicken 
the gravy with flour and serve. For 2 chickens 
use twice the quantity of butter and y 2 H> mush- 
rooms. 

PIGEON ON TOAST. 

Take young pigeons. Dress and split down the 
back. Season with salt and pepper. Lay flat, skin 
side up in a baking pan. Put bits of butter and a 
little sprinkling of flour on each. Nearly cover 
with water. Boast slowly and baste well. When 
done, place each bird on a piece of toast which has 
been dipped in gravy, in which the pigeons have 
been cooked. 

Doves or young chicken are nice cooked the 
same way. 

FRIED QUAIL OR SQUABS. 

Dress, split down the back, and open as flat as 
possible. After washing, drain well. Boll in flour, 
and place in frying pan with plenty of hot lard, 
or salt pork cut fine. Cover tightly. Fry slowly, 
adding a little hot water at a time to keep moist. 
Season with salt and pepper. Time required, from 
30 to 40 minutes, according to age of birds. Serve 
with gravy made from part of grease left in pan 
into which rub 2 tablespoons flour. When smooth 
add enough milk for gravy. Season. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

As roasting a turkey is a slow process, requir- 
ing from 4 to 5 hours, it should be prepared the 



fc 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest 



POULTRY. 59 

day before. After drawing, singe and wash thor- 
oughly inside and out in several waters and drain. 
Stuff according to the following directions: Cook 
the giblets and chop fine with one onion, add one 
heaping tablespoon of butter to the water in 
which they are cooked; break into the bowl 
enough stale bread to fill the body and craw, mois- 
ten with the liquor; season highly with sifted 
sage, salt and pepper; fill the turkey and sew up. 
Tie a cord around the neck to prevent the escape 
of the stuffing; tie down the legs and wings; put 
in dripping pan; make a paste of flour and butter 
and spread over the turkey. Baste frequently and 
roast until tender. When done, put on a platter 
and draw out the cord carefully; make a brown 
gravy, skimming off the fat. Allow 20 minutes 
to the pound for roasting and 20 minutes addi- 
tional. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Bag your goose, and feed it for four weeks with 
corn and wheat so as to have it nice and fat. For 
the stuffing; take an onion, chop it, and put it on 
to steam in about two tablespoons of butter. Take 
a loaf of bread, remove the crusts, soften in cold 
water, but do not let it get too soft; press it out 
and put the bread in with the onion. Keep on the 
stove until thoroughly heated. Cool, and add a 
little parsley and the goose's liver, chopped. Add 
three w r ell-beaten eggs and a sliced apple, pepper 
salt and nutmeg. Stuff your goose, and roast it 
for three hours in a steady oven. 

ROAST DUCK. (Wild.) 

Pick, draw and rinse with pinch of soda in last 
water to make tender and remove odor. Soak over 
night in salt and water. Make a gravy of sliced 
onions, pepper and salt as seasoning. If not fat, 
tie a small piece of salt pork on breast. Stuffing: 
Three pints bread crumbs, 3 tablespoons butter, 



Th Th!s t ifTru f e rthest ' Use onl J "Spends Best Family Flour" 



60 POULTRY. 



1 chopped onion, 1 teaspoon each black pepper, 
sage and salt. Do not stuff too full. Sew up open- 
ing. Place in pan with gravy and turn often. 
Bake in hot oven. Roast until tender, basting 
frequently. 

WILD DUCK OR GOOSE. Mrs. D. S. Crane. 

Stuff with any good dressing. Onion is prefer- 
able for game. Steam in steamer until it is tender 
when pricked. Then put strips of fat salt port 
across each and fasten on with toothpicks and 
bake. 

(Wild.) BABBIT STEW. 

Cut the rabbit into pieces. Cover with vinegar, 
into which you have sliced an onion, and add some 
whole cloves and cinnamon. Drain, as it will be 
sour enough without using much of the vinegar. 
Cover with water, and boil until tender. Take a 
piece of butter and add a heaping tablespoon of 
flour, and brown. Season with salt, pepper and 
nutmeg, and add to the stew. 

BELGIAN HARE. 

Cut into small pieces, and fry in lard and butter; 
when brown, slice an onion over it, and brown 
with flour. Then put into a kettle, and cover with 
water, and simmer until tender. Season the gravy 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a finely chopped 
carrot. If the gravy is not thick enough, use more 
flour. A piece of bacon boiled with the hare will 
improve it. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



61 



MEATS 



TO BOIL FRESH MEATS. 

Place in a kettle of boiling water; skim as soon 
as scum arises and place where it will boil slowly 
but constantly. There should be enough water to 
last until thoroughly cooked. No salt should be 
added until meat is about three-fourths done. 
Skim again after salting, as more scum will arise. 
Allow about 20 minutes to the pound, according 
to quality of meat. The older the meat, the longer 
time it needs. A pod of red pepper in the water 
will prevent the odor of boiling meat filling the 
house. If meat seems tough, put a tablespoon or 
two of vinegar into water before putting in the 
meat. When preparing a leg of mutton for boil- 
ing, always be sure to remove the thin outer skin. 

TO BOIL SALTED MEATS. 

Put on in cold water and let slowly come to a 
boil, allowing about 40 minutes to the pound, 
modified according to quality of meat. Dried and 
smoked meats should be soaked for some hours 
before putting into water. 

PRIME ROAST BEEF. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Have the bones removed and the roast skew- 
ered. Dredge well with flour, pepper and salt, 
and place on top a piece of suet. Place in pan on 
a trivet, or on 2 or 3 bones laid cross-wise of pan, 
to keep it out of the fat. The oven should be very 
hot when the meat is put in that the surface may 
be quickly seared over and the juices confined. 
As soon as it browns well, add a little boiling 
water. Keep the fire hot and baste every 10 or 15 
minutes, adding a little water, as it boils away, 
and turning the meat so as to brown both sides. 
When done, remove the meat and thicken the 
gravy with flour and season to taste. A two-rib 



Be e st L F?ou7 Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



62 MEATS. 



roast will cook in l 1 /^ hours. If wanted very well 
done, allow a little more time. 

A GOOD WAY TO USE COLD MUTTON. 

Chop the meat fine, moisten with a little broth, 
if you have it; if not, with a little water. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper, and heat. Serve on 
slices of buttered toast. 

COTTAGE MEAT PIE. Mrs. G. W. Grupe. 

Three cups cold cooked meat, 1 tablespoon 
minced onion, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 cup milk or water and 2 teaspoons salt. 
Cook for a minute or two on top of stove. Then 
spread 3 or 4 cups mashed potatoes over the top. 
Koughen surface with a fork and bake. May be 
used with or without lower crust. 

VEAL CROQUETTES WITH STRING BEANS. 

Chop 2 pounds of cold roast veal with or 
without 2 boiled sweetbreads; moisten with a lit- 
tle soup or gravy; add yolks of 2 eggs. Season 
with a teaspoon each of chopped parsley, salt and 
cayenne pepper. Roll the mass into cones, dip 
them into beaten egg; roll in crumbs; dip again 
in beaten egg and roll again in crumbs; then fry 
in hot fat. Arrange neatly on a dish with small 
ends upright. Around them place a border of 
string beans nicely cooked and seasoned. An ap- 
petizing dish. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Two Ibs round steak; roll in flour; fry brown in 
part butter and part lard. Season highly with 
salt and pepper, and cut in pieces about 2 inches 
square. Place in a stew-pan and cook until ten- 
der with plenty of water. When tender, add 
water enough to have plenty of gravy and thicken 
with flour. Make a dough as for baking powder 
biscuit; roll out a large round of it, an inch or 
more in thickness. Lay it on a buttered plate, 
and place the meat in the center. Fold the edges 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



MEATS. 63 

over the meat and pinch the dough together in 
the middle, putting in a little of the gravy. Put 
in the steamer, cover the top of the steamer with 
a folded cloth and steam about 3-4 hour. Serve 
hot with plenty of gravy. 

LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put in kettle and cover with boiling water. Let 
boil gently for 1 hour; then place it in a roasting 
pan; season well with salt, pepper, and a dash of 
ginger; dredge well with flour and put in a hot 
oven for iy 2 hours, basting often with some of the 
broth it was boiled in. Brown, and serve with 
caper sauce. Caper sauce: One tablespoon of 
flour rubbed into 2 tablespoons melted butter; 
add boiling water until it thickens. Season with 
salt and 2 tablespoons capers. 

VEAL SOUFFLE. Mrs. E. H. Fontecilla. 

Two cups scalded milk, 2 level tablespoons flour, 
2 tablespoons butter, y 2 cup bread crumbs, 2 cups 
finely chopped cooked veal, yolks of 2 eggs, well 
beaten, 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper. Make a sauce of milk, flour, butter, 
salt and pepper, add crumbs and cook a minute. 
Eemove from fire and add veal, parsley and yolks 
of eggs. Have whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and. fold into the mixture. Turn into 1 a 
buttered pudding dish and bake in a moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Serve immediately. Cold 
corned beef prepared in same manner is delicious. 

MEAT BALLS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Chop fine any cold meat, especially bits left 
from roast beef or veal; add 1 cup bread crumbs 
wet with milk, 1 egg and seasoning; make into 
balls as you would sausage meat. Fry brown 2 
or 3 onions, to which add left-over gravy, if any, 
and about 1 quart of tomatoes, and season. After 
this has cooked together for about 20 minutes, 
lay in meat balls, and cook for about y 2 hour; 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

m 

64 MEATS. 

when ready to serve, put meat balls on platter 
and cover with the tomato sauce. 

TOMATO MEAT PIE. Mrs. H. Hickinbotham. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with bread 
crumbs; add a layer of cold roast mutton, chopped 
fine, then a layer of sliced tomatoes, and so on, 
using crumbs for the top layer. Season each 
layer highly, using cayenne pepper, and placing 
bits of butter on each layer of crumbs. Bake 
until browned and serve hot. Cold veal or pork 
may be used in the same way. 

MEAT LOAF IN BICE BORDER. Mrs. S. A. Borland. 

Grease well a basin, placing a border of cold 
cooked rice about an inch thick around the edge. 
Chop fine the meat remaining from a roast. To 
1/2 cup of meat add 1 egg well beaten, a slice ofl 
bread, soaked in warm water and pressed dry, and 
enough of the gravy or water to moisten. Season 
to taste and fill this with the rice border. This 
should be prepared about 3-4 of an hour before 
dinner, covered closely in a double boiler and 
steamed. Turn it out on platter and pour around 
it a tomato sauce, made as follows: One table- 
spoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon flour, y 2 can 
strained tomato. Cook until thick. 

POT ROAST. Mrs. J. Harry. 

Always have a piece of solid beef for pot roast 
with a little fat. Let the pot get hot, then put in 
the beef and brown on all sides quickly, then add 
2 cups of hot water, salt and pepper, piece of 
onion and a piece of tomato; simmer l 1 /^ hours. 
Add more water if you want more gravy and just 
before serving thicken gravy with flour. 

MINT SHERBET FOR ROAST MUTTON. Ella S. Salbach. 

One-half pound sugar to 1 scant quart boiling 
water. Boil while stripping leaves from 12 stalks 
of fresh mint; chop the leaves then pound to a 
pulp and add to the hot syrup. When cool, add 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



= 

MEATS. 65 

the juice of 2 lemons; strain and freeze to the con- 
sistency of mush. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Place the steak on a hot, well-greased gridiron 
and leave only long enough to sear one side so 
that the juices cannot escape, then turn and sear 
the other, and cook from five to twelve minutes, 
as wanted rare or well done, turning often, to 
keep in the juices and prevent scorching. Dish 
on a hot platter, season with salt and pepper and 
bits of butter and serve at once. If the means of 
broiling are not at hand, heat a frying-pan siz- 
zling hot, put in steak, brown or sear as quickly 
as possible on both sides to keep in the juices. 
then cook until done, turning several times. Dish 
and season as broiled steak. This is nearly as 
good as broiled steak. Use no fat in frying. If 
the fry-pan is hot enough the meat will not stick. 

TOUGH STEAK MADE TENDER. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

Salt, pepper and roll in flour and fry a rich 
brown. Nearly cover with hot water. Place a 
cover over the frying pan and remove to back of 
the stove. Allow the steak to simmer for an hour 
or more, adding a little water from time to time 
to prevent scorching. 

BAKED ROUND STEAK. 

Cut into small pieces. Dredge each with flour 
and place in bottom of well-buttered pan a layer 
of steak. Season well with salt, pepper and bits 
of butter. Continue until all the steak is used. 
Fill the pan two-thirds full of water, cover tightly, 
and bake l 1 /^ hours. 

ROUND STEAK. (Italian.) Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

Season a 25-cent steak with salt and pepper; 
then pour over it 2 tablespoons vinegar and let it 
remain y 2 hour to make it tender. Heat a large 
tablespoon of lard very hot in frying pan. Kub 
steak with garlic and dredge both sides with 



* no the BLt L Flou Use onlv "Sperry's Best Family." 

==! 



66 MEATS. 



flour; place in the hot pan and brown it on both 
sides. Add to it, 2 bay leaves, 1 sage leaf, 1 small 
onion and a little finely chopped parsley; also I 
pint cold water and cook slowly 1 hour. Add a 
little more water if needed to keep from burning. 
Steak cooked in this manner is delicious. 

SPANISH BEEFSTEAK. Mrs. Calder. 

Fry the steak well, and in the same fat, after 
the steak is removed, fry some onions and green 
peppers. When well fried, cut some tomatoes 
very fine, sufficient to make enough sauce for the 
quantity of steak. Fry these with the onions, then 
season. Let stand about 3 minutes, then pour 
over the steak. 

FRIED TRIPE. Mrs. Geo. Tatterson. 

Cut the tripe into pieces the size you wish to 
fry; cover with cold water and boil y 2 hour; then 
drain off the water. Make a batter of 2 eggs, 4 
tablespoons milk, salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon 
flour. Dip the tripe into the batter and fry in hot 
lard or drippings. 

ROLLED CORN BEEF. Mrs. H. Hickinbotham. 

Use a flank piece of corned beef. Make a dress- 
ing as for chicken or turkey. Spread it over the 
beef, roll tightly and tie. Place in a thin cloth 
and boil until tender. Take up, drain and press 
under a weight. Slice cold and garnish with 
small cucumber pickles. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut the liver (calf's is the best) into thin slices; 
pour boiling hot water over and immediately 
drain it off; then skin, season with pepper and 
salt; roll in Graham flour or cracker dust, and 
fry in skillet containing some hot fat or butter. 
Have skillet well covered, and fry slowly for 
about 20 minutes until a nice brown. Make a 
gravy by stirring into the fat, after bacon has 
been removed, 1 tablespoon flour and adding 



Everyone Is Heading THE RECORD Why? 



is a 

MEATS. 67 

about 1 pint milk. Boil up, season and serve with 
gravy poured over the liver. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one-half pounds of minced veal, 3-4 
pounds pork (leg is best), 3 eggs (well beaten), 1 
tablespoon pepper, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 grated 
nutmeg, a little sage, 4 rolled crackers, 1 table- 
spoon cream, and butter size of an egg. Mix all 
together into a loaf, put into a pan and bake in a 
moderate oven, basting frequently. Some add a 
little onion to this and others a teaspoon of sugar. 
To make a beef loaf, use beef instead of veal, and 
bake with small piece of suet placed on top. 

VEAL LOAF. Mrs. E. A. Hamilton. 

Chop 2 pounds veal; add !/4 pound salt pork, 
chopped; 1 cup cracker crumbs, 2 eggs, salt, pep- 
per and sage to taste. Mix well. Press into bak- 
ing powder cans and steam about 2 1 /> hours. 
When cold, run a knife around the can, and the 
loaf will come out in nice shape to slice cold. 

VEAL CUTLET SAUTE WITH PUREE OF CARROTS. 

Select the cutlets from the thick part of the 
leg; beat them well, then bro'wn in a little butter. 
Boil 2 dozen carrots in salted water for 1/2 hour; 
mash them and rub them through a sieve; add 2 
tablespoons butter and season to taste. Cover the 
bottom of a hot dish with the carrot puree, place 
the cutlets on top and serve. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF VEAL. Mrs. C. H. Keagle. 

Slice finely y pound salt pork; put it into a 
kettle and cook until crisp and brown. Take out 
the pork and add 2 pounds veal cut into strips, 
and turn until nicely browned, then transfer to a 
saucepan. To the hot fat add 3 tablespoons flour. 
When brown, add 1 quart boiling water, stirring 
until smooth; pour this over the meat and season 
it to taste. Cover and simmer gently for 1 hour. 
Serve with boiled rice. 

38 



Know the Luxury Hep nnlv "Snpirv's Rpt Farnilv '* 

of the Best Flour. U Se O11 V ft l x rr J S -"^Sl r amilV. 



68 MEATS. 



FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

The choicest cutlets are cut from the center of 
the hind leg. Pound the meat well, dip into 
beaten egg, then into rolled cracker, and place in 
a skillet containing plenty of hot butter and drig- 
pings, mixed. Season well on the upper side with 
pepper and salt. Cover closely and when a rich 
golden brown, turn and brown on other side. Now 
season this side. The meat should cook very 
slowly for nearly an hour. When done, remove 
meat; add milk or cream to the butter remaining 
in the skillet, thicken with a little flour and sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt. Pour this gravy 
over the cutlets. Some serve sliced lemon with 
this dish. 

FRIED BACON AND EGGS. 

Cut bacon in thin slices and fry; some prefer it 
crisp, others fry only till transparent. To fry 
crisp, put it in a very hot skillet and tend care- 
fully. Fry eggs in same pan and serve one on 
each slice. 

For liver and bacon, take out the bacon when 
fried; keep hot and fry the sliced liver in same 
fat. When done, serve on same dish with the 
bacon; garnish with slices of lemon. 

MOCK DUCK. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

Chop finely a slice of salt pork; mix it with a 
cup of bread crumbs, a small minced onion, pep- 
per, and sage. Spread on a slice of round steak. 
Roll it up, tie, and put it in a pan with a pint of 
hot water, laying a slice of salt pork on top. Add 
a little salt, if the pork is not salt enough, to 
season it. Cover and bake nearly 3 hours. Brown 
and serve with a gravy. 

MOCK TERRAPIN. 

Season half a calf s liver with salt and fry 
brown in butter; cut into small bits; dredge well 
with flour; add y 2 pint water, teaspoon each of 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



MEATS. 69 

mixed mustard and lemon juice, ^ saltspoon 
cayenne, 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, and 2 
tablespoons butter. Boil a minute or two and 
serve. Cold veal may be used instead of liver. 

THE COOKING OF PORK. 

Pork roast. Roast slowly at first, and allow a 
half hour to the pound, as pork must be well done. 
Fried apples, or apple sauce, is always nice with 
pork, cooked in any style. For chops: Procure 
the loin and fry slowly until very well done; serve 
plainly, seasoned with pepper and salt. 

ROAST VEAL OR LAMB WITH DRESSING. 

Remove bone from foreshoulder. Place a dress- 
ing in the cavity from which the bone has been 
removed. Rub the meat thoroughly with salt, 
pepper and flour. Place on trivet in baking-pan 
with a little hot water and put into oven. Baste 
frequently. Twenty minutes to the pound and 20 
minutes over is usually the time for roast veal, 
lamb and pork. Probably the lamb needs a little 
less time than veal or pork. Make gravy as for 
any roast. 

BOILED HAM. 

Pour boiling water over the ham and let stand 
until cool enough to wash; scrape clean, put into 
the boiler, with cold water enough to cover; bring 
to boiling point, skim, and place on back of stove 
to simmer steadily for 6 or 7 hours, or until ten- 
der when pierced with a fork; be careful to keep 
water at boiling point, but do not allow to go 
much above that. Turn the ham once or twice in 
the water; when done, take up and put into bak- 
ing-pan to skin; dip hands in cold water, take skin 
between fingers and peel as an orange; set in mod- 
erate oven, placing lean side of ham downward, 
and bake 1 hour. 

TRIPE "CREOLE" Mrs. P. Kahn. 

Cut l 1 /^ Ibs tripe into small pieces and fry in a 
pan w r ith 2 ounces butter, 1 onion and y% green 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



70 MEATS. 



pepper (both chopped). Brown slightly for 6 min- 
utes. Transfer to a sauce pan and add 1 chopped 
tomato and y 2 pint Spanish sauce. Season with 
salt, pepper, a crushed clove of garlic and a bay 
leaf. Cook for 15 minutes and serve with a spoon- 
ful of chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. 
Spanish sauce is a mixture of flour and good 
broth, stirred until smooth, simmered for an hour 
and strained through a sieve, then add a gener- 
ous piece of butter. 




For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



H= 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 



PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS. 

Fill a jar with unripe nasturtium seeds. Pour 
boiling vinegar, well salted, over them. Drain off 
the vinegar after three days and boil again. Pour 
over the pickles as at first. Repeat this three times. 
These are an excellent substitute for capers. 

PEACH CHUTNEY. 

Six Ibs peaches, 2 Ibs sugar, 1 Ib raisins, 1-3 Ib 
salt, i/o Ib green ginger root, 14 Ib mustard seed, ^ 
Ib red chili peppers and 2 quarts vinegar. Pare and 
slice peaches, stew until soft in half of the vinegar; 
boil the sugar and the other half of vinegar into a 
syrup; add the raisins, seeded and chopped; the 
mustard seed, crushed; the peppers, seeded and 
chopped; and the ginger root, chopped. Add the 
salt and a little garlic ; boil all together for 20 min- 
utes and seal in jars. 

CUBBY. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Fry tender 1 dry onion, 1 large tooth of garlic, 
a piece each of carrot and parsnip ; add 1 teaspoon 
salt and put all through a colander. Brown 1 table- 
spoon butter; add 1 dessertspoon flour rubbed 
smooth, then add gradually 1 pint soup stock and 
1 raw potato, grated. Boil slowly until it thickens. 
Boil 1 cup cocoanut in 1 cup milk. Strain and add 
to curry just before serving. 

MIXED MUSTABD. Mrs. Geo. W. Tatterson. 

Two tablespoons mustard, 1 tablespoon each of 
flour and olive oil, I teaspoon sugar and a pinch 
of salt. Mix all but the oil. Stir in boiling water 
sufficient to make a thick paste. Thin with vinegar, 
add oil and stir well. Milk may be substituted for 
oil. 



=JH 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

72 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. Mrs. Geo. Condict, Lockeford. 

Cream together three tablespoons each of mus- 
tard and sugar. Add 1 egg beaten light, then add 
gradually 1 teacup vinegar and beat until smooth. 
Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly. When cool 
beat in 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Milk may be used 
instead of oil. 

ENCHILADA SAUCE. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Fry until brown 3 sliced onions in 3 tablespoons 
olive oil. Strain, and add 3 tablespoons flour. Stir 
smooth and add the strained juice from 1 quart 
cooked tomatoes which have been brought to a 
boiling point. Add 1 teaspoon each of sugar and 
salt, 3 tablespoons "Grandma's" pepper which 
has been moistened with water for 10 or 15 minutes 
before using. Strain mixture and add grated 
cheese if desired. Pour over macaroni or rice. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Twelve Ibs shredded (green) tomatoes, 3 Ibs 
green peppers, 5 Ibs silver-skin onions. Sprinkle 
with salt and let them stand over night. Press dry 
and add I head cabbage, 1 stock celery, 3 quarts 
vinegar, 1 pint brown sugar, 10 cents' worth of 
white mustard seed and 5 cents' worth of celery 
seed. Cook tender and bottle. 

CHOW CHOW. Mrs. Graves, Kansas City. 

Chop green tomatoes fine, sprinkle with salt and 
let them stand 24 hours. Use same amount of cu- 
cumbers and cauliflower. Take !/4 amount of 
onions, chop separate, cover with cold vinegar for 
48 hours. Press dry and add celery and white mus- 
tard seed, horseradish and green and red peppers, 
4 Ibs brown sugar to the gallon and vinegar suffi- 
cient to cover. Boil 20 minutes. 

TOMATO CHOW CHOW. Mrs. Roblin. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, 1 dozen onions, 
6 green peppers chop all and sprinkle with 1 pint 
salt. Let them stand over night. Drain and cover 

THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 73 

with good vinegar and cook slowly for 1 hour. 
Strain and put in jars, leaving an inch of space 
at top of dressing. 

Dressing is as follows : Mix and cook thoroughly 
2 Ibs sugar, 2 teaspoons each of cloves, cinnamon 
and allspice, 1 teaspoon pepper, y 2 cup ground mus- 
tard seed, 1 pint grated horseradish and. vinegar 
sufficient to mix. Pour boiling hot over mixture, 
will keep for years. 

CHILI SAUCE. Louise Wurster. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, 8 green peppers 
(hot), 4 large onions, 1 quart vinegar, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 tablespoon each of allspice, cloves, cinna- 
mon, mustard and salt. Chop onions and peppers. 
Tie spices in a bag. Boil all together 4 or 5 hours. 
Seal in fruit jars. 

CHILI SAUCE. Mrs. Taylor, Benicia. 

To 1 dozen ripe tomatoes and 2 onions, chopped 
fine, add 1 cup vinegar, y 2 cup sugar, I large spoon 
salt, little cayenne or chili pepper. Boil 3 hours 
and bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP. Mrs. L. O. Stamper. 

Slice 1 small box of tomatoes and sprinkle over 
them 6 tablespoons salt. Let them stand over 
night. Then drain off the water and add 1 pint 
vinegar, 3 ounces mustard, y 2 ounce cinnamon, all- 
spice, red and black pepper. Boil 1 hour and set 
away for 3 or 4 days. Then boil again and bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP. Mrs. Manuel. 

One gallon strained tomatoes, 3 tablespoons each 
of salt, allspice and cinnamon, 1 tablespoon black 
pepper, 2 tablespoons ground mustard, 2 teaspoons 
each of cloves and cayenne pepper, and 1 pint of 
vinegar. Cook slowly for 4 hours. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Five Ibs currants, 4 Ibs sugar, 1 cup vinegar, 1 
tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg. Boil 1 hour. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



74 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Stew 5 Ibs grapes until soft. Strain and add 2~y 2 
Ibs sugar, 1 tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice, pepper and salt, and 1 pint of vinegar. 
Boil until thick, then bottle. 

SPICED CURRANTS (Fine.) 

To every pint currants allow 1 pint sugar. Make 
syrup in proportion to 4 pints sugar to 1 pint vine- 
gar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons allspice, 
1 teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon mace, y 2 teaspoon 
salt. When boiling add currants and boil 20 
minutes. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

The blue damson plums are best. Take 4 Ibs 
sugar, 5 Ibs fruit, 2 tablespoons each of cinnamon 
and cloves. Boil 2 hours; then add 1 pint cider 
vinegar. Cook a few minutes and put away in jars. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

One quart water and 1 quart vinegar, 4 pounds 
dark brown sugar, boiled to a syrup. Pour on fruit 
while boiling. Leave 36 hours, turn off and boil 
again. Pour on fruit and seal. 

PICKLED GRAPES. Mrs. W. C. Ramsey. 

One gallon vinegar, 2 gallons water, 1 gallon 
sugar and plenty of whole cloves and cinnamon 
bark. Boil all together and when cold pour over 
grapes which have been broken in small bunches, 
and seal. 

PICKLED FIGS. Mrs. P. W. Wurster. 

Ten Ibs figs, 4 Ibs brown sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 
4 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons each of cloves 
and allspice. Dissolve i/o teaspoon soda in plenty 
of hot water and pour over figs to destroy rank 
taste. Pour off and rinse in hot water and drain. 
Heat vinegar and sugar until sugar is dissolved. 
Tie spices in a bag and place in hot syrup. Add 
figs and boil 1 hour and bottle. 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 75 

PICKLED FIGS. Mrs. W. C. Ramsey. 

Seven Ibs figs, 1 pint good cider vinegar, 3 Ibs 
sugar and plenty of whole cloves and stick cinna- 
mon. Place spices in a bag and boil with vinegar 
and sugar. Drop in figs and boil until tender. Put 
in glass jars like other fruit. 

SWEET PICKLED FIGS. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Take figs and boil till tender; take them out and 
lay singly on plate or colander, drain day and night 
till thoroughly dry, then put into the boiling syrup 
and boil 15 minutes. Take them out carefully and 
put into jars. Pour syrup over them. For 3 morn- 
ings pour off syrup and scald, then pour over and 
set aside. 

SYRUP. 

One quart vinegar, 3 pounds sugar, 5 cents' stick 
cinnamon, broken and tied in a bag. Let all come 
to a boil. 

OIL PICKLES. Mrs. F. A. Pollard. 

One hundred small cucumbers sliced thin, I quart 
button or silver-skin onions sliced thin. Sprinkle 
whole with y 2 pi n t salt. Drain 6 hours. Mix with 
2 gills sweet oil, 2 ounces celery seed, 1 dessert 
spoon black pepper. Place in jars and cover with 
cold vinegar. 

MIXED PICKLES. Mrs. M. A. Moore, Grass Valley, Cal. 

Four quarts small cucumbers, 2 quarts onions, 
2 quarts green tomatoes, sliced fine, 2 quarts string 
beans, cauliflower and green peppers, as much as 
needed. Put all together in salt and water for 24 
hours. Cut fine and scald in same water. 

DRESSING FOR SAME. 

Six tablespoons of mustard, 5 cents' worth of tu- 
meric, l 1 /^ cups of sugar, 1 cup of flour, 2 quarts 
vinegar. Take mustard, flour, sugar and tumeric 
and wet with a little vinegar. Stir in 2 quarts 
vinejrar. Put it on the stove to heat and thicken. 



Th Th!f ifTrue rthest ' Use onlv "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



76 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

Keep stirring to prevent sticking. If a little too 
thick, thin, with vinegar. After filling jars with 
pickles, pour the dressing over while hot. 

MIXED PICKLES. Mrs. L. J. Locke, Lockeford, Cal. 

Peel and slice 1 quart large cucumbers, 1 quart 
small cucumbers (whole), 1 quart celery cut in 
small pieces, 1 quart small silver-skin onions, 1 
quart string beans, 1 large cauliflower in pieces, 6 
mango peppers sliced, 2 small green peppers. Place 
all in weak salted water for 24 hours. Scald in 
same and drain. 

DRESSING FOB SAME. 

Six tablespoons ground mustard, 1 tablespoon 
turneric, 3 quarts cider vinegar, % cup sugar, 1 cup 
flour, 4 teaspoons celery seed. Mix well and cook 
enough to cook flour. Pour over pickles and seal 
hot. 



GERMAN SALT PICKLES. Mrs. L. O. Stamper. 

Select cucumbers of medium size with the stems 
on. Wash well. Prepare a brine that is strong 
enough to float an egg. Place a layer of grape 
leaves, then a layer of cucumbers, then a layer of 
dill. Repeat until all are used. Let them stand 
two weeks before using. Wash and place pickles 
in vinegar if desired. 

GERMAN SWEET PICKLES. 

Peel and remove seeds from ripe cucumbers, and 
place in brine strong enough to float an egg. After 
soaking in brine for 12 hours, wash thoroughly, 
wipe dry, and cut into strips. Cover with a brine 
made of vinegar and water in equal parts, and boil 
up once. Drain cucumbers and place in a jar in 
alternate layers with dill. Add a few mustard 
seeds, and a bag of cloves and cinnamon to second 
brine, also a small amount of sugar. Boil again, 
and pour over cucumbers while hot. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 77 

QUINCE HONEY. Mrs. C. M. Grupe. 

Five Ibs sugar boiled in 1 quart of water. Grate 
4 quinces and mix with syrup. Cook slow r ly for 15 
minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

To every Ib fruit add 1 quart water. Let it stand 
24 hours. Boil until skins are soft. When cold add 
1 Ib sugar to each pint of fruit and boil 2 hours. 
When removed from stove add juice of 4 lemons 
to each dozen oranges. Use the whole of the orange. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. Mrs. H. Hickinbotham. 

Slice 12 oranges very thin. To each Ib of fruit 
add 2 quarts water and let it stand 24 hours. Cook 
until tender, and set away for 12 hours. Add 1 Ib 
sugar for each Ib fruit and boil 1 hour. Remove 
from stove and add juice of 6 lemons. Bottle and 
seal with paraffine. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. Mrs. C. E. Morehead. 

Slice 4 oranges and 2 lemons in quarters, then 
cut opposite way, very thin. Add 2 quarts water 
and boil 2 hours. Allow 1 cup sugar to 1 cup juice. 
Boil i/o hour. This makes 8 glasses. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

Slice thin 4 oranges and 2 lemons. Measure and 
add 1 pint water. Cook until tender, and add as 
much sugar as you had mixture before cooking. 
Boil until it jells. 

FIG MARMALADE. Louise Wurster. 

Allow y 2 Ib sugar to 1 Ib peeled (black) figs. Boil 
figs 3 hours, add 1 lemon, sliced fine and sugar. 
Boil all 1 hour. 

FIG MARMALADE. Mrs. Geo. Tatterson. 

Allow 1 lemon to 2 Ibs peeled figs. Boil 15 min- 
utes. Add % Ib sugar to each Ib fruit. Boil 25 min- 
utes, stirring constantly. 

PEACH AND PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Ten Ibs peaches, 6 Ibs sugar, 1 pineapple shred- 
ded. Boil 2 hours. 



5 n e g^Fioff. Use opl y "Sperry's Best Family." 

78 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

PEACH AND PINEAPPLE PRESERVES 

Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Five Ibs ripe peaches, 1 can pineapple, % Ib su- 
gar. Add sugar and boil. Add juice of pineapple, 
boil again, then add pineapple, cut fine. Boil until 
thick. Put in glasses and cover top with wax. 

CURRANT JELLY (uncooked) Mrs. A. W. Davidson. 

Take equal parts sugar and juice. Mix well and 
set in the sun. 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Nine Ibs apricots, 9 Ibs sugar, 3 Ibs shredded 
pineapple. Let sugar stand on pineapple over 
night. Pare and stone apricots. Mix well together 
and boil ~Li/o hours. 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE JAM. 

To 5 Ibs peeled apricots use 1 pineapple. Allow 
% Ib sugar to 1 Ib fruit. Cut apricots in halves, 
add sugar and mix well before setting on the stove. 
Cook from 40 to 45 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Cook pineapple with same proportions of sugar 
for 1/2 hour. Mix with the cooked apricots and re- 
move from fire. Must be kept air tight. 

ISABELLA GRAPE JELLY. 

Take small bunches of grapes. Use a little water 
to keep from scorching, and mash grapes while they 
are boiling. Boil 20 minutes and work through a. 
colander, then through a coarse sieve. Allow 1 cup 
sugar to 1 cup grapes. Boil 15 minutes. 

BLACKBERRY AND PLUM JELLY. Mrs. Cyrus Moreing. 

Four Ibs blackberries, 1 Ib damson plums, crush 
while simmering. Strain and allow 1 pint sugar 
to 1 pint juice. Boil 20 or 30 minutes. Very ripe 
berries can be used as the plums give necessary 
acidity. 

STRAWBERRY JAM (uncooked). Mrs. C. H. Jones. 

Mash ripe berries very fine. Allow 1 cup sugar 
to each cup berries. Stir until thoroughly mixed. 
Place in jelly glasses and let stand a few days be- 
fore covering. Tie paper over the glasses. Rasp- 

This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 79 

berries and Loganberries can be used in same 
manner. 

STRAWBERRY JAM (cooked). 

Boil fruit 15 or 20 minutes. Stir and skim. Al- 
low % Ib sugar to 1 Ib fruit. Boil 20 or 30 minutes 
longer, stirring constantly. Apply same rule for 
other kinds of berries and for currants. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. Mrs. W. C. Ramsey. 

Put berries into kettle on back part of stove to 
soften slowly, mash well; when thoroughly heated 
pour through half dozen thicknesses of cheese cloth, 
let drip, not squeeze. Take three cups of Astrakan 
apple juice to one of strawberry; let boil 5 or 6 
minutes; add slowly, equal quantity of heated 
sugar; let boil until it jells (about ten minutes). 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

To 1 ten-pound box of berries use 50 cents' worth 
of sugar. Place sugar on back of stove with 1 cup 
water. When hot, put in berries and let them sim- 
mer some time. Remove from fire and set away 
until next day. Then simmer again and seal hot. 




"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

. . = 



VEGETABLES 



TIME TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes, boiled, 30 minutes; baked, 45 minutes; 
squash, 30 minutes; green peas, 20 to 40 minutes; 
shell beans, 1 hour; string beans, 2 hours; green 
corn, 20 minutes; asparagus, 20 to 30 minutes; 
spinach, 15 minutes; tomatoes, 1 hour; cabbage, 
45 to 60 minutes; cauliflower, 45 to 60 minutes, 
onions, 1 hour; beets, 1 to 4 hours; turnips, 1 to 
2 hours; parsnips, 1 to 2 hours; carrots, 1 to 2 
hours. Nearly all vegetables should be put into 
boiling water to cook. Cabbage, onions and tur- 
nips should be cooked in an uncovered kettle, thus 
avoiding the disagreeable odor that usually arises 
from them. 

Spinach is best cooked in its own juices without 
the addition of water. 

Hold onions under water while peeling to prevent 
the eyes smarting, or put a piece of raw potato on 
the end of the knife. 

In preparing beets to boil, great care must be 
taken not to cut the stalks too close or to break off 
the roots, which will cause them to lose their color 
and flavor. 

Dried beans are sufficiently parboiled if the skins 
crack open when blown open. 

Add a pinch of soda to the water in which beans 
are parboiled. 

HINTS ON COOKING POTATOES. 

Old potatoes are improved by being peeled and 
allowed to soak in cold salted water for an hour 
or two before cooking. When preparing potatoes, 
they should be put in cold water as soon as peeled 
to prevent darkening. Mealy potatoes, and those 
apt to cook to pieces, are better baked or steamed. 
If salt is added to the water, when potatoes are half 
boiled, it will preserve their shape. If potatoes 
become mealy on the outside, leaving the heart un- 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



VEGETABLES. 81 



cooked, they should be put to boil in cold water; 
otherwise, put them in boiling water. When done, 
drain off all the water, place on the back of stove, 
uncover and allow them to dry a little. Sweet pota- 
toes require more time to cook than white po- 
tatoes. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Take medium-sized potatoes, peel and put into 
cold salted water; when lard is good and hot, re- 
move the potatoes from the water and dry with a 
cloth; slice as thin as possible and cook in the hot 
fat immediately until crisp and brown. Slice as 
you need them and fry only a few at a time. Salt 
just before serving. 

WARMED OVER POTATOES. 

Take the left over potatoes from dinner and cut 
in small pieces into a fry-pan ; salt, pepper and add 
enough lard or butter to keep from sticking. Stir 
with knife to keep from burning and fry a nice 
brown; then just barely cover with milk and set 
over fire. Let the milk dry away, stirring the 
potatoes all the time. 

POTATO CONES. 

Form cold mashed potatoes into small mounds 
by pressing them into a small sized cup, and then 
remove carefully from the cup and place in a but- 
tered tin, the large end down; on the top of each 
place a piece of butter ; place in the oven until they 
are nicely browned. If handled carefully they can? 
be kept in perfect shape. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut into pieces sufficient cold boiled potatoes to 
measure 1 quart; 1 tablespoon chopped onion fried 
a light brown in 3 tablespoons butter; add the pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, toss lightly with 
fork; add when very hot, I tablespoon chopped 
parsley, cook a moment and serve. If liked, add 
a few drops of lemon juice. 



f F X IOU?. Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



82 VEGETABLES. 



CREAM POTATOES. 

Put 1 tablespoon butter into a frying-pan ; when 
melted add 1 tablespoon flour and rub to a smooth 
paste ; add I 1 /*? cups milk, and boil to a thick cream ; 
add salt and pepper, and then stir in 2 or 3 cups 
cold boiled potatoes, diced. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Peel either white or sweet potatoes, place in the 
pan with a roast of beef or veal. Turn or baste 
them frequently, so that they will brown well in 
the gravy, and allow them to bake nearly an hour. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake 6 potatoes in a moderate oven about an 
hour; cut in two lengthwise; remove the center; 
mash and season with piece of butter size of an 
egg, about y 2 cup hot cream, pepper and salt; beat 
until light, and add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Eeturn to the shells, touch lightly here and there 
with the yolk of an egg and bake in a quick oven. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil until tender, drain off the water and stand 
on back of stove until dry ; mash with fork or potato 
masher, season with butter, pepper and salt, add a 
little milk or cream, and beat until light and 
smooth. Do this quickly, as they must be served 
very hot. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Place layers of thinly sliced raw potatoes in a 
well-buttered baking dish; season well with salt, 
pepper, butter, and dust a little flour over them. 
When pan is full, pour over them milk in the pro- 
portion of y 2 pint to a quart of potatoes. Cover 
the pan and bake until tender, then remove the 
cover and allow to brown. Bake about an hour. 



SAUCES TO SERVE WITH VEGETABLES. 



WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE. 

Put 1 tablespoon butter into sauce pan; when 
melted add 1 tablespoon flour and rub to a smooth 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



VEGETABLES. 83 



paste; add 11/2 cups milk; stir constantly and cook 
until it is of the consistency of thick cream; add 
salt and pepper. The butter must not brown, and 
the sauce should be perfectly smooth and free from 
lumps. 

DRAAVN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Proceed as above, using more butter and boiling 
water in place of milk, pouring it on gradually and 
stirring briskly to prevent lumping. Allow the 
sauce to boil up once after it is smooth. 

BAKED BEANS. Mrs. Sophia Wright. 

One quart small white beans put to soak over 
night in plenty of water. In the morning drain 
off the water and put on to boil in cold water. 
When boiling, turn off the water and cover again 
with hot water ; when half done, add about a pound 
of salt pork, and cook until the beans are tender. 
Turn them into a large pan, placing the pork in the 
center; season with pepper and salt (if the pork 
is not salt enough), i/4 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon 
dry mustard. Bake 3 or 4 hours, adding water as 
needed. 

BAKED BEANS. Mrs. W. P. Steinbeck. 

Pick over and wash 1 quart of small white beans ; 
cover with cold water, and allow to come to a boil; 
pour off all the water, and cover again with hot 
water. Cook till tender; drain and season with 1 
teaspoon salt, 1-3 cup molasses, pinch of mustard 
and a little cayenne pepper; add a small piece of 
salt pork and bake 5 or 6 hours, in moderate oven, 
adding water as needed. They should be a rich 
brown, when done. 

SPANISH BEANS. Mrs. Charles Sampson. 

Soak 1 quart of brown beans over night; parboil 
twice; add 1 pint of tomatoes, 1 large onion, 4 
cloves of garlic, 4 small red peppers, cut fine, and 
1 tablespoon salt. Boil 3 or 4 hours, adding water 
as it boils down. A piece of salt pork or ham cut in 



-88 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



84 VEGETABLES. 



dice improves the flavor. Leave out the onion and 
use only 2 cloves of garlic, if a less highly flavored 
dish is liked. 

STRING BEANS. Mrs. A. F. Harrison. 

String carefully; cut lengthwise and crosswise; 
wash and drain thoroughly; put heaping table- 
spoon of butter in frying-pan and when very hot 
put in the beans. Stir constantly for 10 or 15 min- 
utes, not allowing them to brown ; cover with boil- 
ing water; add salt and boil briskly until water has 
boiled away, which will be about % of an hour. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash thoroughly and cut off the white ends; 
tie in bunches and place in kettle of salted boiling 
water. Cook 20 minutes; remove carefully to pre- 
vent breaking. It may be served with butter, salt 
and pepper; with cream sauce; with drawn butter 
sauce; on toast, or with mayonnaise dressing, hav- 
ing the asparagus either hot or cold, when served 
with the dressing. 

CARROTS. 

Wash, scrape and slice them; cook until tender, 
drain, season with salt, pepper, a tablespoon of but- 
ter rolled in flour and a little milk or cream. They 
may be cooked as above, mashed and seasoned with 
butter, pepper and salt. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Chop and cook as for boiled cabbage; when ten- 
der, drain and add about y 2 as much bread crumbs 
as cabbage, 3 beaten eggs, salt and pepper, small 
pieces of butter; add milk enough to partly cover 
and bake about y 2 an hour. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Shred the cabbage ; place with some lard or drip- 
.pings in the frying-pan; cover and cook until ten- 
der, stirring occasionally to prevent burning; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, add vinegar if liked. A 
little water added at first will prevent it burning. 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



VEGETABLES. 85 



CABBAGE. Mrs. William French. 

Slice, boil tender in salted water, drain off nearly 
all the water and stir into it, while hot, the follow- 
ing dressing: One beaten egg, 1 tablespoon flour, 

1 tablespoon cream or butter and 3 tablespoons 
vinegar. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Slice and put into a kettle with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg; cover and cook for 20 minutes; 
add enough cream or milk to half cover and cook 
for 10 or 15 minutes longer; season with salt and 
pepper and serve hot. 

CORN BAKED WITH PEPPERS. 

Score the ears and scrape from the cob sufficient 
jaw corn to measure 1 pint; wipe 2 green peppers; 
drop into boiling water for 5 minutes; rub off the 
skin with rough cloth; remove seeds and shave fine. 
Put corn and peppers in layers into a buttered 
baking dish, seasoning with salt. Pour over it 1 
cup of cream in which is mixed 1 beaten egg; add 

2 tablespoons melted butter, and bake in a quick 
oven 40 minutes. 

CORN OYSTERS. Mrs. Simpson, Lake City, Minn. 

One pint grated corn, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 or 4 
rolled crackers, salt and pepper; beat well and 
add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Place butter and 
lard in a hot pan, drop in spoonfuls of the batter 
and cover so they will steam. Brown slowly. 

CORN SPANISH. Mrs. Sampson. 

Cut the kernels from 4 ears of corn; cut in small 
pieces 4 medium sized tomatoes, 1 bell pepper and 
1 chili pepper; cook all together for 20 or 30 min- 
utes, season with butter, salt and 1 teaspoon 
sugar. If too thin, thicken with a little flour. 

EGG PLANT. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

Put egg plant, whole, into kettle with plenty 
of water; simmer until tender; drain, peel and 
mash. Add bread crumbs, a little chopped onion, 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

86 VEGETABLES. 

thyme, salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne, parsley 
and plenty of butter; grate over the top some 
bread crumbs and set into the oven to brown. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the vegetables in half, lengthwise, leaving 
on the stems and parboil in salted water. Scoop 
out most of the inside; mash and add 2 eggs, a 
little bacon, a few mushrooms, also the stems, a 
little chopped onion and parsley, pepper, salt and 
bread crumbs soaked in stock or hot water. Fill 
the halves with this; place in a buttered pan; add 
a little oil to each and bake 40 minutes. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. Mrs. C. E. Moorehead. 

Cut in half and remove center; parboil until 
tender. Chop a large tomato, an onion, a little 
parsley and add to the part removed; also 2 or 3 
beaten eggs, bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Fill 
the skins, roll in cracker crumbs and bake till 
brown. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Proceed as above, using a plain stuffing made 
with 3 rolled crackers, 1 beaten egg, salt, pepper 
and butter, added to the cooked centers. Fill the 
shells; cover with cracker crumbs, bits of butter, 
and bake y 2 hour. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel and cut into thin slices; put into a frying 
pan containing butter or pork drippings. Cover 
and stir often to prevent burning. Season with 
salt and pepper. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Take as many onions of an even size as desired. 
Wipe the dirt off with a cloth but do not wash or 
remove any skin. Bake about 1 hour and remove 
outer skin and serve. They can be seasoned all 
together, or individually, with butter and salt and 
pepper. 

STUFFED ONIONS. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

Take large onions, boil until partly done; drain 
and carefully remove the hearts. Chop these with 



m 

VEGETABLES. 87 



bits of cold meat; add bread crumbs, 1 beaten egg, 
1 spoonful cream, salt and pepper. Fill the onions 
with this; place them in a stewpan wtih a little 
water and simmer y 2 hour. Add to the juice a 
little flour mixed smooth with milk and a little 
lemon juice. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Boil small onions until tender; drain and place 
in a buttered baking dish in alternate layers with 
bread crumbs; season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter, and partly cover with milk or cream. Bake 
!/o hour. 

STUFFED SQUASH. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Select small summer squash; cut out the stem 
end, and scrape out the seeds. Prepare a mixture 
of highly seasoned chopped cold meat, stale 
bread crumbs, melted butter and little onion. Fill 
squash and bake 45 minutes. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Take small young squash; do not peel, but cut 
out at the stem end a hole the size of a walnut. 
Place carefully in kettle; cook in salted water 
until tender; remove to platter without breaking 
and into each hole put a piece of butter, pepper 
and salt. Squash cooked this way is never watery. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH. 

Slice in 14 inch slices; dip in beaten egg, then 
in flour and fry slowly in hot lard. Season with 
salt and pepper. 

SCRAMBLED TOMATOES AND EGGS. 

Fry 1 tablespoon minced onion to a light brown 
in 2 tablespoons butter. Heat 1 cup strained 
tomatoes, 2 teaspoons sugar, salt and pepper; add 
3 beaten eggs, the butter and onion, and cook until 
thick and creamy, stirring all the time. Pour 
over slices of toast, and, if liked, sprinkle with 
grated cheese. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

In a well buttered baking dish, place layers of 
sliced fresh tomatoes well covered with bread 

a 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



88 VEGETABLES. 



crumbs, salt, pepper and bits of butter, having 
the top layer of crumbs. Bake % hour. 

DELMONICO TOMATOES. Miss Maude Eaves. 

Peel tomatoes and cut out center; fill the open- 
ing with breadcrumbs seasoned with butter, salt 
and pepper, a little onion if desired, and bake. 

SMOTHERED MUSHROOMS. 

Cut into small pieces, put in a dish with salt, 
pepper, butter and 2 tablespoons water. Cover 
closely and bake for about 20 minutes. 

NOODLES. Mrs. Oscar Stamper. 

Two well-beaten eggs, salt; add flour and knead 
thoroughly until all the flour possible has been 
worked in; roll out in thin sheets and let them be- 
come dry but not brittle. Roll up and cut into 
small strips; shake them out well to prevent 
sticking together. Boil a chicken tender; remove 
it and cook the noodles in the broth. Serve the 
chicken with a gravy made by adding milk to the 
broth and thickening with flour, mixed smooth 
with water. Noodles may be cooked in salted 
water; drained and served with squares of bread 
fried brown, thrown over the top. Season with 
butter. 

SPAGHETTI WITH MUSHROOMS. Mrs. J. M. Royce. 

Cut small porterhouse steak into bits and place 
in a fry-pan with hot olive oil. Into this, cut a 
clove of garlic; add 2 cans of French mushrooms 
strained from their liquor, and fry a delicate 
brown. Add a little of the mushroom liquor, 1 
pint of tomatoes, 1 chili pepper (scraped), salt and 
butter; cook slowly for 1 hour. Meanwhile, cook 
the spaghetti until tender, then add it to the 
sauce and cook an hour. Just before serving, add 
grated cheese. 

SPAGHETTI A LA MILANESE. Mrs. E. H. Fontecilla. 

Two cups cream sauce, 2 cups spaghetti, 1 level 
saltspoon pepper, 1 hard boiled egg, 1 small cup 
grated cheese, y 2 teaspoon paprika, 3 tablespoons 

THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



g 

VEGETABLES. 89 

chopped, cooked ham, 1 saltspoon soda, stale 
bread for toasting. Boil the spaghetti in plenty 
of salted water and drain in colander for a few 
minutes. Prepare the cream sauce with a table- 
spoon each of flour and butter, and 1 cup of milk; 
cook until smooth. Add cheese, soda and season- 
ing to the sauce; pour over the spaghetti; reheat; 
pour into a platter and garnish on top with egg, 
ham and border points of toast. 

DEVILED SPAGHETTI. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Boil carefully 4 ounces of spaghetti, drain and 
throw into cold water for 15 minutes; drain again 
and cut fine. Put 1 tablespoon each of flour and 
butter in a saucepan; add y 2 pint milk, stir until 
boiling; add salt, pepper, a little onion, 1 table- 
spoon chopped parsley and 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine. Pour this sauce over the spaghetti; 
mix; cover all lightly with bread crumbs and 
brown quickly in a hot oven. Serve with a little 
tomato catsup. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. Mrs. Oscar Stamper. 

Throw macaroni into boiling salted water, cook 
from 20 to 30 minutes, or until tender; drain and 
place in layers in a buttered baking dish, each 
layer covered with bread crumbs and grated 
cheese. Over this pour a gravy made as follows: 
One tablespoon butter in frying pan, rub into it 
1 tablespoon flour and add about iy 2 cups milk 
and cook till creamy, stirring to prevent lumping. 
Salt. Pour it over the macaroni and bake until 
browned on top. 

MACARONI SPANISH. 

Make a sauce as follows: Fry 2 medium sized 
onions in ham, bacon fat or oil; add 2-3 can toma- 
toes, a little parsley, few olives, y 2 red pepper and 
salt. Cook macaroni in salted water, with a little 
garlic; when tender, drain and place on platter 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



90 VEGETABLES. 



and pour over it the sauce. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese. 

MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. 

Cook macaroni as above and place in baking 
dish in alternate layers of macaroni sprinkled 
with grated cheese, and oysters, butter and cream. 
Bake % hour. 

BOILED RICE. Mrs. E. H. Fontecilla. 

Wash thoroughly 1 cup rice and cook in 1 gal- 
lon of salted water. Do not put the rice in until 
the water is boiling hard and do not cover while 
cooking. When tender, drain in a colander and 
put in the oven to dry, stirring occasionally with 
fork. 

RICE SOSO. Mrs. Moorehead. 

Let cool 2 cups cooked rice and spread over it 
the following sauce: Mash y 2 glass of jelly and 
add it to the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 

STEWED CELERY. Mrs. George Tatterson. 

The stalks of celery not suitable for the table 
as a relish may be utilized in the following man- 
ner: Wash carefully and cut into small pieces; 
boil about % of an hour in salted water and 
drain; serve with a cream sauce, or season it with 
salt, pepper and sweet cream. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Wash and remove the centers from 6 large bell 
peppers; prepare a filling as follows: One quart 
of bread crumbs, 1 small onion and 2 medium 
sized tomatoes, chopped fine; season highly with 
salt, pepper and melted butter. Fill the peppers 
with the stuffing; set them closely together in a 
baking pan, half filled with hot water to which 
may be added a little soup stock or gravy; cover 
them with another pan and bake about % of an 
hour, removing the cover for the last 5 or 10 min- 
utes to allow them to brown. The filling may be 
varied by the addition of chopped meat, grated 
cheese or parsley. 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



LUNCHEON DISHES 



HOW TO PREPARE SANDWICHES. 

Use a very sharp knife and an even board and 
slice the bread very thin. Expose the butter to the 
air long enough to soften sufficiently for easy 
spreading. To keep sandwiches from drying, wrap 
them, as soon as made, in a cloth, wrung as dry as 
possible out of cold water. 

PEPPER SANDWICH. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Chop green peppers, from which all seeds have 
been removed, very fine; add a pinch of salt, a little 
salad oil and vinegar. Let stand a few minutes, 
then press as dry as possible and spread between 
prepared bread. 

PEANUT SANDWICH. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

Shell roasted peanuts and remove all skin; run 
them through a meat chopper, or grind fine. Put 
on a fire, adding enough butter to make a smooth 
paste and spread on thinly sliced buttered bread. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. Mrs. W. P. Steinbeck. 

Cut fresh bread into very thin slices and spread 
with a little butter; then place 1 or 2 leaves of let- 
tuce it depends on the size on a piece of bread; 
cover the same with a little mayonnaise dressing; 
then another piece of bread and cut once. As fast 
as made, they should be put into a pan and covered, 
as they dry out very quickly. The lettuce should 
always be very crisp, and if made in warm weather, 
it is well to set them in the refrigerator for a while 
before serving. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Chop some seeded ripe olives very fine and add 
enough mayonnaise dressing to spread well; place 
the same between thinly buttered slices of rye bread 
and press firmly together. The thinner bread is cut 
for sandwiches the better. 



Th Thu t ifT?u f e rthest ' Use onl y "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 
I 



92 LUNCHEON DISHES. 

DRESSING FOB SANDWICHES. 

One-half pound butter, 2 tablespoons mixed mus- 
tard, 3 tablespoons salad oil, a litle red pepper, salt, 
and yolk of 1 egg. Rub the butter to a cream ; add 
the other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Set 
away to chill and before using, mix with finely 
chopped ham. 

PICNIC SANDWICHES. 

One Ib cooked ham put through meat chopper, 
3 hard boiled eggs, 1 small piece onion, a sprig of 
parsley. Mix well with 3 tablespoons salad dress- 
ing and spread on thinly sliced buttered bread. 

EGG SANDWICHES. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

Boil eggs hard; halve them; remove yolks; run 
through a colander; then mix them with chopped 
walnuts and mayonnaise dressing. Fill empty 
whites and serve on lettuce leaves. 

ITALIAN SANDWICH. Mrs. F. N. Keagle. 

One pound California cheese (grated), 1 pod 
garlic minced very fine, y 2 CU P tomato catsup, cay- 
enne pepper and salt, mixed to a smooth consistency 
with olive oil. Use with any kind of bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. Mrs. G. H. Cowie. 

One cup grated cheese, 1 tablespoon melted but- 
ter or olive oil, 1 beaten egg. Season to taste with 
pepper and Worcestershire sauce and juice of y% 
lemon. Put the egg in last and beat to a cream. 
To be spread on salted crackers and browned in the 
oven. 

FILLING FOB CHICKEN PATTIES. Mrs. C. H. Keagle. 

Cut the white meat of a cold, cooked chicken into 
small pieces; put into a saucepan y 2 pint of 
cream or milk and y 2 pint of chicken 
broth, 1 oz. butter in small pieces and rolled in 
flour, salt, red pepper and a very little nutmeg. 
Place the pan on the stove where it will simmer to 
boiling point; then remove and let cool. Beat up 
the yolks of 2 eggs with y 2 teaspoon flour and a lit- 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 







LUNCHEON DISHES. 93 

tie milk; add this to the other mixture and cook 
until thick; then add to the chicken and heat 
through; fill shells and serve hot. Some prefer to 
use the eggs hardboiled and chopped. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

One pint small oysters, y% pint cream, 1 large 
teaspoon flour, salt and pepper. Heat the cream 
in a double boiler; thicken it with the flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk, and season with the 
salt and pepper. AVhile the cream is heating, bring 
the oysters to a boil in their own liquor ; skim care- 
fully, and add them with a little of the liquor, to 
the cream and boil up once. Fill hot pastry shells 
with this mixture and serve at once. This will fill 
18 shells. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Put the liquor from the oysters into a saucepan; 
add the grated rind of 1 lemon, a pinch of cloves, 
some cayenne pepper and 1 tablespoon of butter. 
Thicken with a little flour. Make more, if desired, 
by adding a little milk. Then put into this the 
oysters cut in halves. Serve hot in hot patty shells. 

MOCK TERRAPIN. Mrs. Ewing. 

Take 1 cup of chicken or veal broth; place in a 
pan and simmer down until a dark golden brown, 
and the pan can almost be turned upside down 
without its running out. To this add 1 tablespoon 
of butter and 1 rounded tablespoon flour. Pour 
into this slowly, while stirring, the water from 1 
can of mushrooms. When this sauce is thoroughly 
cooked, add left over sweetbreads, finely chopped, 
or chicken, or veal, yolks of a number of hard- 
boiled eggs, some red and some white pepper, salt 
and mushrooms. If one has a little cream, it may 
be added. Two or 3 kinds of the meats mentioned, 
may be used together ,if at hand. 

} ffi 



BSrtWtow Use onlv "Sperry's Best Family." 



94 LUNCHEON DISHES. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. Mrs. H. Hahman, Santa Rosa. 

Kemove the skin, and cut into little square pieces, 
a cold boiled chicken. Boil down juice in which the 
chicken was boiled to y 2 pint. Make a gravy of y 
Ib butter melted in saucepan ; rub in smoothly a ta- 
blespoon flour, then add a pint of cream and the 
chicken broth. Season with salt and cayenne 
pepper, and put in 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped not 
too fine, and glass of sherry wine. Serve hot with 
a few olives and crisp crackers or sandwiches. This 
is enough for six. 

HOW TO PREPARE SWEET BREADS. Mrs. Ewing. 

When coming from the market, place in cold 
salt water for 1 hour. Remove and put into boiling 
water; cook until tender, as shown by using a fork; 
then place them into cold water again. When cold 
skin them; then make a cream sauce, put them in, 
and let all boil up together and they are ready to 
serve. 

CROQUETTES OF SWEET BREADS. 

Take sweet breads, soak them for an hour in cold 
water with a tablespoon of vinegar, or a little lemon 
juice and cook them for twenty minutes. Then 
drop them again into cold water to harden. When 
cold, pick apart, freeing them as much as possible 
from the skin. Have the pieces no larger than an 
oyster. Now make a batter of 1 egg, a little milk 
and flour. Dip the sweet breads into this and fry 
in hot fat, until a golden brown. Season with salt 
and pepper. If preferred dip them into beaten 
egg and roll in cracker crumbs instead of batter. 
When done put them on a brown paper, a moment, 
to free from grease. Serve hot with sliced lemon 
and a little parsley. 

CHEESE STRAWS. Mrs. S. M. Hickinbotham. 

Three tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons Parmesan 
cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon milk, % 
saltspoon salt, y saltspoon red pepper, % salt-spoon 
nutmeg, yolk of 1 egg. Mix the dry ingredients; 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



LUNCHEON DISHES. 95 

add the milk, yolk, and the butter softened. Stir 
well with a spoon, and when smooth, divide the 
dough into two parts for rolling. Roll very thin, 
cut into strips 3 inches long and bake 15 minutes 
in a slow oven. 

CHEESE STRAWS. Mrs. Wesley Mlnta. 

One cup grated cheese, 2 eggs, butter the size 
of an egg, a little red pepper and mustard, and 
flour enough to roll. Mix cheese, butter and flour; 
add the other ingredients; roll thin and place in 
long shallow pan. Cut crosswise with a knife or 
tracer, into narrow strips the width of straws, and 
bake. Watch carefully or they will burn. Grated 
cheese may be sprinkled over the top before baking. 

LUNCHEON DISH. 

Boil 1 cup rice in salted water; add to it, when 
done, 1 teacup chopped meat, y 2 cup or less of chili 
sauce and butter size of a walnut. Serve hot. 

A GOOD LUNCHEON DISH. 

Take left-over salmon, break up into little pieces ; 
add crisp, shredded lettuce and mix thoroughly 
with sour cream salad dressing. Serve with 
crackers. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Take crackers, butter meagerly; spread with 
grated cheese and sprinkle with little cayenne pep- 
per; place in oven for short time; then serve hot 
with hash or other light meat dishes. 

A GOOD LUNCHEON DISH FROM LEFT-OVERS. 

Put the broth or gravy left over from a chicken 
into a pan; make more by adding milk, cream, 
butter, a little more thickening and seasoning. Put 
into this, when cooked, left-over chicken taken from 
the bones and cut into little squares, the dressing 
cut up small, if any; a little rice, if on hand; left- 
over hard-boiled eggs, cut into small pieces or 
chopped ; let all come to a boil ; season with red pep- 
per, salt, butter, etc., and serve on small pieces 
toast. It should be quite watery when served so as 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

HP 

96 LUNCHEON DISHES. 



to soak the toast. Veal may also be used in this 
way. 

A DELICIOUS LUNCHEON DISH. Mrs. S. A. Blythe. 

Place a tablespoon butter into a saucepan and 
let brown ; add 1 tablespoon Hour and stir together 
until it makes a paste; then put in the liquor from 
oysters, to thin; add 2 tablespoons catsup; cook 
all together, and just before serving, add the 
oysters. Serve on diagonally shaped pieces of 
toast, placed on a platter, and garnish with parsley. 

FISH CROQUETTES. Mrs. H. Hickinbotham. 

Any cold boiled, baked or fried fish from which 
all fat, bones and skin have been removed, chop- 
ped fine; 1-3 as much mashed potato, rubbed to a 
cream with a little butter. Mix thoroughly; make 
into balls; dip into beaten egg; roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry. Serve with pickles. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Soak l}/2 cups bread crumbs in y 2 CU P sweet 
cream ; mix with this 1 cup finely cut chicken ; add 
1 egg and salt and pepper to taste. Shape, roll in 
egg; then in rolled cracker and fry. 

MUTTON CROQUETTES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Use left-over pieces of cold mutton or other 
meats. Chop very fine. Roll a number of crackers 
fine, mix with the meat and season to taste; moisten 
with milk or water; mold into cakes and fry brown 
in butter. Serve with the following sauce: Cover 
and simmer gently for 20 minutes y 2 can of toma- 
toes, 3 cloves, 14 of a bay leaf, y 2 teaspoon of salt, 
1-3 teaspoon white pepper, y z onion cut fine. Take 
a clean saucepan and put into it 2 tablespoons flour 
and 2 tablespoons butter; melt these together over 
the fire and gradually add the strained tomatoes, 
stirring until the sauce is smooth. 

MARGUERITES. Mrs. V. K. Chesnut. 

Unsalted Long Branch crackers, whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup English 
walnut meats cut into small pieces (not chopped), 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



is 



LUNCHEON DISHES. 97 

flavor to taste. Stir all together and spread thickly 
on the crackers; put on stiff paper and bake in 
moderate oven about 20 minutes. Nice to serve 
with afternoon tea, ice-cream or berries. This quan- 
tity will make 36. 

CHILI CON CARNE. 

One round steak, 1 tablespoon hot fat, 2 table- 
spoons rice, 1 cup boiling water, 2 large red pep- 
pers, y 2 pi n t boiling water, salt and onions to taste. 
Cut the steak into small pieces; place in frying 
pan with the hot fat, water and rice; cover closely 
and cook slowly until tender. Remove the seeds 
and part of the veins from the peppers; cover with 
i/o pint boiling water and let them stand until cool ; 
then squeeze them in the hand until the water is 
thick and red. If not thick enough, add a little 
flour and let come to a boil. Season with salt and 
a litle onion, if desired. Pour the sauce on the 
meat and serve. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Peel and core the apples; put them into a deep 
pie-dish half filled with water. Fill up the cavities 
with sugar and little cinnamon, and put a smal] 
piece of butter on top of each. Bake till soft, bast- 
ing occasionally with the juice in the pan. May be 
served hot or cold with their own syrup, or with 
whipped cream flavored w r ith vanilla, 

COTTAGE CHEESE. Mrs. C. C. Keniston. 

Take sour milk before old enough to have an 
unpleasant taste; set in a warm place, not hot. 
When the curd separates from whey, drain off the 
latter ; put the curd in a strong bag and squeeze out 
the whey; inash the curd fine, mix with it a little 
cream or butter and salt to taste. Mold into small 
cakes. 

BOILED TONGUE. Mrs. Tatterson. 

If the tongue be corned, put into cold water; if 
fresh, into hot water. Boil 3 hours; try with a 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



98 LUNCHEON DISHES. 

fork; set aside and let cool in the liquor. When 
cold, remove the skin and serve as desired. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Take bits of cold fowl, or any kind of cold meat, 
or two or three kinds together, and chop fine; put 
into frying-pan with water to cover; season well; 
if you have any gravy, add it. When it boils 
thicken with cornmeal stirred in carefully, like 
mush, and about as thick. Cook a short time, pour 
into a dish to mold ; slice off, and fry for breakfast 
or lunch. 

CHEESE OMELETTE. H. Maude Eaves. 

One cup cracker crumbs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup grated 
cheese, 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
and salt. Mix together, adding beaten whites of 
eggs last. Bake 10 minutes in a buttered dish. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

Season 1 cup bread crumbs with salt and red 
pepper; add 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, iy 2 cups 
milk and % pound grated cheese. Place in baking 
dish and sprinkle with 1 cup bread crumbs. Bake 
till brown. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Select fruit not over-ripe. Slice it lengthwise. 
Place a little butter in a dish ; as soon as it begins 
to bubble, put in the fruit and fry brown. Serve 
with or without bacon. 

QUIVERING DAVY. Mrs. Oldham. 

Have a shin bone of beef cut into 3 or 4 pieces, 
add a little salt and cover with cold water. Boil 
5 hours, or until the meat cleaves from the bone. 
When done, there should be but a little liquor left. 
Shred the meat fine, season with salt, red, and black 
pepper and pack into a long, narrow mold; strain 
the liquor over it. This should be prepared the 
day before used, and should be of a quivering con- 
sistency when cold. 



B= 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECK) RD Why? 



LUNCHEON DISHES. 99 

GERMAN TOAST. Mrs. L. G. Harry. 

One egg well beaten, 1 pint milk and a pinch of 
salt. Dip thin slices of stale bread into this and 
fry brown. Serve with butter and sugar. 

GERMAN TOAST. Mrs. F. W. Wurster. 

Slice stale bread; dip into well-beaten egg to 
which has been added a little salt, and fry brown 
in butter. Allow 1 egg for every 4 slices of bread 
and serve hot as possible. 

BANANA FRITTERS. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
1 cup flour, 2 tablespoons olive oil or butter, salt 
and sufficient luke-warm water to make a smooth 
batter, adding the whites of eggs last. Slice 
bananas in halves, lengthwise; dip into the batter 
and fry in deep fat; serve with powdered sugar. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Place 2 tablespoons butter and i/ 2 pound grated 
cheese in a double boiler. When the cheese is 
melted, add 2 eggs, y 2 teaspoon each of paprika and 
salt, a pinch of cayenne, 1/4 teaspoon soda and y 2 
cup cream. Cook until as thick as custard. Serve 
on toast w r hich has been toasted only on one side, 
putting the cheese on the untoasted side. 

DRIED BEEF IN CREAM. 

Shave your beef very fine or buy the chipped 
beef; pour over it cold water; set on stove and let 
come to a boil, slowly; then pour this off and pour 
on sufficient cream to make a gravy; let this come 
to boil. If you have no cream, use milk and butter, 
thickened with a little flour, mixed smoothly with 
w r ater; season with pepper and serve on toast, or 
with boiled potatoes in their jackets. 

CASTOETEN. 

Boil 10 cents calves' liver and when nearly done 
skin and grate it. Mix with this 1 small onion, 
grated, 3 hard-boiled eggs, pepper, salt and fat 
from some fowl or butter. Shape into balls and 
fry brown. 



= 



'BSFffi. t^e on'! "Sperry's Best Family." 



BREAD 



GRATED POTATO YEAST. 

' Grate 2 medium-sized potatoes into a sauce-pan ; 
pour over them about 1 pint of boiling water, beat- 
ing rapidly; add 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 table- 
spoon salt; boil together; when lukewarm, add 1 
cake of compressed or dry yeast moistened in, 
water ; cover and set in a warm place to raise. When 
you wish to make fresh yeast, repeat this process, 
using 1 cup of the old yeast instead of the yeast 
cake. If the old yeast seems to have lost its life or 
smells sour, add a pinch of soda to it One cup of 
this yeast will make 3 large loaves. 

WHITE BREAD. Mrs. Sophia Wright. 

Sift 1 quart of flour, 2 teaspoons salt and 2 table- 
spoons sugar into the bread-pan ; mix 2 cups of hot 
water with 1 cup milk; when this is lukewarm 
add 1 cup of potato yeast and stir into the sifted 
flour. Stir in more flour until it can be kneaded 
with the hands; turn it on the bread-board and 
knead until it will not stick to the board. Form 
the dough into a round loaf; put back into the 
bread-pan ; cover closely with a pan and set to raise 
over night. In the morning it should be double the 
size. Turn it on the board, which has been lightly 
dusted with flour; knead for 4 or 5 minutes; form 
into 3 loaves and place them in a well-greased bak- 
ing-pan. Rub them over the top and sides with 
melted lard to prevent them sticking together and 
to give a soft crust. Cover with a cloth; set in a 
moderately warm place and allow them to raise to 
double their size, which should take from l 1 /^ to 2 
hours. Bake in a moderate oven about 45 minutes. 
Be careful to knead in all the flour at the first mix- 
ing, using barely enough at the second kneading to 
keep the dough from sticking. Too much flour 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



BREAD. 101 

added at the second kneading is apt to make the 
bread dry. Keep out of draughts while it is 
raising. 

WHITE BREAD. Mrs. J. M. Harry. 

Yeast: Two boiled potatoes mashed in potato 
water; pour this on two tablespoons of flour; smooth 
nicely (if too thick add a little hot water), 1 scant 
tablespoon salt, 2 scant tablespoons sugar. When 
cool add 1 cake magic yeast after it is dissolved. 
Make yeast day before making the bread. 

Bread: Two big quarts of siften flour, 3 pints 
of warm water or milk and water with one scant 
tablespoon of salt added to it. Add 2 cups yeast; 
beat well with spoon; when light knead with your 
hand, adding enough flour to make a smooth dough 
so that it won't stick to the board. Mould into 
loaves; set in a warm place to raise; when light, 
bake. Do not let a draught strike it. This will 
make 4 large loaves, pan of light rolls and a loaf of 
currant bread or coffee cake. 

WHITE BREAD. Florence Padgham. 

To make 3 medium-sized loaves take 4 potatoes, 
mashed thoroughly, 1 tablespoon flour, scald the 
flour, and when cool, add the yeast cake. When 
light stir up with 1 pint water and a little flour, 
not to make stiff. Let this raise over night. In the 
morning add a small piece of butter or lard, y 2 tea- 
spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. Knead thoroughly 
and let it raise again before mixing into loaves. 
Bake about 30 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Scald a pint of milk ; add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter. W T hen luke- 
warm add 1/2 cake compressed yeast dissolved in 
1/2 cup warm water, then stir in 21^ cups white flour 
or enough to make a thick batter; beat it well; 
cover closely and set the bowl in a pan of water, 
hot, but not scalding. Place the pan where the wa- 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



STATE BAKERY 

WM. INGLIS & SON 
Phone Main 91 112 South Center St. 




EUREKA ! 

"I have found the ideal 
bread," triumphantly ex- 
claimed one of the best 
housekeepers in Stock- 
ton. She referred to that 
baked at the 

STATE BAKERY. 

Little wonder that she 
was pleased, for we have 
the knowledge, the skill, 
the inclination, the ma- 
terials, all necessary to 
the production of really 
good bread bread that's 
pleasing to the eye, the 
palate and the stomach 
alike. 



FRESH BREAD, CAKE AND PASTRY. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



BREAD. 103 

ter will keep hot or add more hot water occasion- 
ally. In an hour or less the batter will be full of 
bubbles; then stir in the whole wheat flour, using 
enough to make a dough that will keep its shape 
when you stop stirring. Mix and cut it through and 
through with a knife, until not a particle of flour 
can be seen. Work well from the bottom and edges 
to the center, scrape the bowl clean and smooth off 
the top; if it settles to a level it is too soft and a 
little more flour is needed, but add only a table- 
spoonful at a time lest it be too stiff. Cover and let 
it raise again ; stir it down as soon as it cracks and 
seems light, After it raises again in the bowl, turn 
it out on the floured board, using only enough flour 
to prevent sticking. Shape into 4 round or 2 long 
loaves with as litle handling as possible; put in 
pans. Cover and let it raise until double its bulk, 
then bake about an hour. The oven should be a 
little cooler than for white bread and a little more 
time will be required for baking. 

GRAHAM BREAD. Mrs. Taylor. 

One-quarter cup sugar, !/4 cup syrup, 4 cups gra- 
ham flour, 2^/2 cups sour milk, 2 teaspoons soda in 
the milk, 1 teaspoon salt. Let it raise 2 hours. 

GRAHAM BREAD. Miss F. R. Wickersham. 

One quart graham flour, 1 cup molasses, 1/2 cup 
butter, 1 scant teaspoon baking powder, salt, 1 pint 
sour milk and 1 teaspoon soda. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. Mrs. E. H. Fontecilla. 

One cup rye meal, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup whole 
wheat flour, % cup molasses, 2 cups sour milk, 2 
level teaspoons soda and 1 level teaspoon salt. Mix 
and sift all dry ingredients thoroughly; add mo- 
lasses and sour milk, then soda moistened with a 
little cold water. Grease 1 pound yeast powder 
cans, half fill with batter, place in a kettle of boil- 
ing water and steam iy 2 hours. This amount will 
make 3 nice loaves. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

m * 



104 BREAD. 



CURRANT BREAD AND COFFEE CAKE. Mrs. Jos. Harry. 

Take a piece of dough as large as for a loaf of 
bread; add a small cup sugar, 1 cup currants or 
raisins, 1 egg, a piece of butter or lard the size of 
an egg, and a little cinnamon. Mix up well with 
the hand. Pour in greased pan and when light, 
bake. Coffee cake is just the same as currant 
bread with the currants left out. For the top take 

tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon flour, a little but- 
ter and cinnamon. Crumble with the fingers, and 
sprinkle on top of the cake just before putting it 
into the oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups yellow corn meal, 1 cup rye or graham 
flour, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda. 

BROWN BREAD. Eliza A. Davis. 

Two cups yellow corn meal, 2 cups graham 
flour, 3 cups sour milk or buttermilk, 1 small cup 
molasses, 1 heaping teaspoon soda. Place in ket- 
tle of boiling water, cover tightly and steam con- 
stantly for 3 hours. This quantity is sufficient to 
fill a 5-pound lard bucket. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. Mrs. O. M. Rowland. 

Two cups yellow corn meal, 1 cup rye flour, 1 
cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix this with 3 
cups boiling water, then add 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
teaspoon soda, and 1 cup flour. Bake 1 hour 
slowly, then steam 4 or 5 hours. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. Mrs. Chas. D. Miller. 

One pint clabbered milk, 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon lard, 

1 quart flour. Sift flour, salt and baking powder 
very thoroughly. Add sour milk. Be careful not 
to mix too stiff and handle as little as pos- 
sible. Butter pan and bake in a quick oven. Make 
indentations with finger or knife on each biscuit 
and place a tiny bit of butter in each place before 
baking. 



8? fit 

THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



BREAD. 105 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One heaping cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der, a little salt, all sifted together. Then mix in 
thoroughly about 1 teaspoon of butter, and milk 
enough to make a soft dough. Only stir enough 
to mix well. Roll out about % of an inch in thick- 
ness. Cut the biscuits and bake. When done they 
should be about twice the size when placed in pan. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. Miss Lucille Moore, Grass Valley. 

Rub together until well mixed 1 quart flour, y 2 
cup butter, y 2 cup lard, pinch of salt. Add 1 cup 
currants or seedless raisins, cinnamon to taste, % 
cup sugar, y 2 pint bread sponge made from y 2 
yeast cake. When light put into gem pans and 
raise again. Bake about 20 minutes. If you make 
bread save y 2 pint of same sponge to save making 
fresh. 

CORN BREAD. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

One cup yellow corn meal, 2-3 cup white flour, 
1-3 cup sugar and scant teaspoon salt; sift all to- 
gether; 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 cup sour 
milk and add to the flour, then add 1 beaten egg 
and 2 tablespoons melted butter. If possible us>e 
the same quantity of cream, either sweet or sour 
in place of butter for shortening. Bake in shallow 
pans in hot oven. Sweet milk may be substituted 
for sour and baking powder for soda. Sugar may 
be left out entirely or N. O. molasses substituted. 

VIRGINIA CORN BREAD. Inga A. Griffith. 

Three cups white corn meal, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 tablespoon lard, 3 cups milk, 3 eggs, 
1 cup flour. Sift together flour, corn meal, sugar, 
salt, and baking powder. Rub in the lard cold. 
Add the well-beaten eggs, and then the milk. Mix 
into a moderately stiff batter, and pour into well- 
greased shallow baking tins. Bake from thirty to 
forty minutes. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



106 BREAD. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One and one-half cups graham flour, y 2 CU P 
white flour, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, salt, little sugar and melted butter, 1 
tablespoon. 

ROLLS. L. M. Moore. 

Three cups flour, 1 cup milk, y 2 cup hot water, 
1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1-3 cake com- 
pressed yeast. Proceed same as with other rolls. 

ROLLS. Mrs. H. B. Marshall. 

One pint of milk, scalded; add to it while hot 2 
heaping tablespoons sugar, and 1 of butter. When 
the milk is cool, add a little salt and y 2 cup of 
yeast, or 1 compressed yeast cake; stir in flour to 
make a stiff sponge, and when light mix as for 
bread. Let it raise until light; punch it down with 
the hand, and let it raise again; repeat 2 or 3 
times. Then turn the dough on the moulding 
board and roll out to about an inch in thickness 
and cut in rounds. Brush the surface of each 
with melted butter, and fold one-half over the 
other. Place in greased baking pan; let them 
raise until light and bake. While warm brush 
the tops of the rolls over with melted butter to 
make the crust tender. 

POP OVERS. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

One egg beaten light; add 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
cup flour and pinch of salt. Put all the flour in at 
once to prevent lumping. Beat thoroughly and 
pour into a greased gem pan. Have pan hot and 
baked in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Use 
no soda, cream tartar nor baking powder. The 
above will make eight pop overs. The recipe can 
be doubled. 

CORX MEAL MUFFINS. Mrs. John Inglis. 

Four tablespoons melted butter, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 6 tablespoons yellow corn meal, 2 eggs, 2 
cups milk or water, 3 teaspoons yeast powder, 
pinch salt, and flour enough to stiffen so as to 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



BREAD. 107 



drop nicely. Beat the eggs thoroughly; add the 
milk. Mix the sugar and melted butter and add 
to the milk, and egg. Beat in thoroughly the rest 
of the ingredients. Bake in gem pans. 

MUFFINS. Mrs. A. Roberts. 

Two cups flour, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 2 tablespoons butter, melted and 
added last. Bake in muffin pans. 

MUFFINS. 

One egg, 1 cup flour, 2 level teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cup milk and little salt. This quantity 
is for small family. 

MUFFINS. Mrs. E. McKenzie. 

Three eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 coffee cup 
milk, 2 tablespoons butter, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, l 1 /^ cups flour. Beat eggs 
separately. Bake in muffin tins in a hot oven. 
This may require a little more flour. 

MILK TOAST. 

Slightly brown 8 slices bread. Let 1 pint milk 
come to boiling point and then thicken with 1 
tablespoon flour mixed smoothly with cold milk. 
When cooked add y 2 teaspoon salt, piece of butter 
size of a walnut, or cream if you have it. Dip each 
piece in separately before putting in dish. 

APPLE FRITTERS. Mrs. A. Davidson. 

Peel, quarter and slice as many apples as de- 
sired. Put into a batter made of 1 cup milk, 2 
eggs, flour, and salt to taste. Fry in hot fat. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

One cup cooked rice, y 2 cup flour, 1 scant tea- 
spoon baking powder, salt, and enough milk to 
make rather a thin batter. Have more grease in 
the pan than one would use for pancakes. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. Mrs. A. Davidson. 

Stir a cup of cold boiled rice into 1 quart sweet 
milk and allow it to stand undisturbed for y 2 hour. 
Add 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 CU P melted butter, 1 cup 
flour, a teaspoon soda dissolved in a little water. 



Th Thif ifT?u f e rthest Use onl y "Sperry's Best Family Flour^ 



108 BREAD. 



Stir thoroughly and test on griddle. If the cakes 
show a disposition to break add a little more flour. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Three cups Eastern buckwheat flour mixed to 
a smooth batter with luke-warm water. Add a 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons N. O. molasses, and 
about y 2 cake compressed yeast dissolved in a 
little luke-warm water. Set this mixture to raise 
over night. In the morning add 1 level teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a little water. Fry on a hot 
griddle. 

POTATO PAN CAKES. Mrs. Jos. Harry. 

Three large, grated, raw potatoes, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, a scant teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons milk, 3 
tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Fry 
in hot lard. 

WAFFLES. Mrs. L. O. Stamper. 

Sift into 1 pint flour 2 teaspoons yeast powder 
and salt; then add 1 tablespoon melted butter, 2 
well-beaten eggs, and enough milk to make a thin 
batter. Be sure and have the two sides of the 
waffle pan well heated and greased before begin- 
ning to bake. 

WAFFLES. Mrs. John Craig. 

To 1/2 CU P very soft butter add 3 eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, 1 quart flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, i/ 2 teaspoon salt. Add milk 
to make a thin batter. Beat hard for 2 minutes 
and bake in hot buttered waffle irons. 



ft 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



PASTRY 



HINTS ON PASTRY. 

Lard must be hard and the water very cold to 
make good pastry. Handle as little as possible. If 
you desire the upper crust very flaky, save 2 table- 
spoons of shortening for top crust. Roll thin and 
spread evenly, adding a pinch of salt. Cut in 4 
pieces, placing each on top of the other. Roll and 
cut again. Repeat for 3 times at least. When pie 
is ready for oven, wipe top over with milk and just 
before it is done remove from oven and wipe over 
again. Return to oven and finish baking. For a 
juicy pie take a strip of cloth about l 1 /^ inches wide, 
wet and bind on the edg of crust. This will pre- 
vent juice from running out. Remove soon as pie 
is baked. 

PIE CRUST. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Three cups flour, 1 cup lard or % cup cottolene, 
1 teaspoon salt, pinch of soda. Chop lard into flour 
with knife as much as possible. Add just as litle 
water as is possible to hold together. This recipe 
makes pastry enough for 2 large pies. 

APPLE PIE. 

Peel and chop nice tart apples, % cup sugar, 
sprinkle of flour, small teaspoon cinnamon, pinch 
of salt. Stir well together and fill crust and put bits 
of butter over apples before adding top crust. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Two Ibs lean beef boiled and cooled in water it 
has boiled in. When cold chop fine. Strain the 
water and add to the mixture when ready to cook 
1 Ib suet minced to a powder, 5 Ibs juicy apples 
pared, cored and chopped, 2 Ibs raisins seeded, 2 
Ibs Sultans or seedless raisins, 2 Ibs currants, ^ 
Ib chopped citron, 3 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 table- 
spoons cloves, 1 tablespoon fine salt, 1 grated nut- 
meg, 4 Ibs brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar. Cook 

a a 



Use onlv "Sperry's Best Family." 

a 



110 PASTRY. 



slowly, stirring frequently until the apples are 
cooked. Taste of the mixture; if too sweet, add 
vinegar to taste, if too sour, add sugar to taste. If 
too dry, use cold coffee for wetting. Bottle or can 
like fruit. 

LEMOX PIE. Mrs. B. J. Matteson. 

Two lemons, 1 cup water, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 
tablespoons flour, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoons white sugar. 
Grate the rinds, squeeze out the juice and chop pulp 
very fine. Place together and add water, flour and 
brown sugar, working all into a smooth paste. 
Beat eggs, saving whites of 2, and mix with paste. 
Bake with lower crust only. This makes 2 pies. 
While pies are baking beat the whites of 2 eggs to a 
stiff froth. Stir in white sugar. Place on the top 
of the pies after they are baked and remove to the 
oven to brown. 

LEMON PIE. Mrs. Rob't Inglis. 

Beat together 1 cup sugar, butter half size of an 
egg, 3 beaten eggs, leaving whites of 2 for frosting, 
salt, 1 cup milk, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Bake in lower crust Frost with well-beaten whites 
of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Spread over pie after it is baked and brown in 
oven. 

LEMON PIE. Mrs. A. Truscott. 

Grated rind and juice of 3 lemons, 1^ cups su- 
gar, 2 grated crackers, iy 2 cups milk, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 5 eggs. Save whites of 2 eggs for frosting; 
beat well ; add 1 tablespoon sugar. When pies are 
baked, frost and return to oven and brown. 

LEMON PIE. Mrs. Sarah Moore. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons sugar, juice of 2 
large lemons; beat well. Cook in double boiler 
until it thickens. Beat whites to a stiff froth ; add 6 
tablespoons sugar and beat into the thickened yolks. 
Have your crust baked and fill with this and brown 
in oven. 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



PASTRY. Ill 



POTATO LEMON PIE. Mrs. R. L. Gardiner. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon; grate 1 potato 
size of lemon, 1 teaspoon flour stirred into 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup water, and beaten yolks of 1 egg. Boil 
a few moments and put into a previously baked 
crust and frost with remaining white beaten with 
1 tablespoon sugar. Brown in oven. 

LEMON PIE WITH TWO CRUSTS. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Three eggs, 2 scant cups sugar, 1 cup boiling 
water, pinch salt) 2 tablespoons flour, juice and 
grated rind of 2 lemons, small piece butter. Meas- 
ure sugar and flour and mix thoroughly together; 
add lemon juice and rind and then boiling water. 
Let this come to a good boil and then pour it over 
the well-beaten eggs; add the butter and salt. Let 
this mixture cool before pouring into the crust. This 
will make 2 small pies. 

MOCK MINCE PIES. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup vinegar (scant), 1 cup 
water, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, y 2 CU P melted 
butter, 1 cup cracker crumbs well rolled, 1 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon and allspice, y% teaspoon each of 
cloves and nutmeg. This makes a large pie or 2 
small ones. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Five rolled crackers, 3 eggs, 1 cup each of sugar, 
raisins, vinegar, cold water and butter, iy 2 cups of 
molasses, 1 lemon chopped fine, 1 teaspoon all kinds 
of spices. Rub butter and sugar together, add eggs 
well beaten, then add other ingredients. This will 
make 4 pies. 

MINCE PIE. 

Fill a crust with previously made mince meat. 
Use a shallow plate. Put bits of butter on top 
mince meat, a litle nutmeg, a few drops of extract 
lemon and a litle sugar. Cover with a rich pastry. 



ffl= 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

1 



112 PASTRY. 



RHUBARB PIE. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 
If the rhubarb be tender, it is not necessary to 
remove all the skin. Cut into small pieces. Turn 
boiling water over it and let stand for 5 minutes. 
Drain off the water, and place fruit in pan already 
lined with crust. Add y z cup raisins, plenty of 
sugar, brown is preferred, a litle nutmeg, sprinkling 
of flour, pinch of salt and bits of butter. Bake 
with top crust. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Eemove the skin and cut rhubarb into inch 
pieces. Mix well with 1 cup sugar, and 1 table- 
spoon flour. Put small bits of butter over top be- 
fore adding top crust. Bake in moderate oven. 

SQUASH PIE. Mrs. Roberts. 

One cup strained, well-cooked squash, 1 cup milk, 
1/2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 teaspoon each of 
cinnamon and ginger, little nutmeg, 2 well-beaten 
eggs. Quantity for 1 pie. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIES. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Steam pumpkin and rub through colander. Take 
2 cups of the pumpkin, a little salt; add small piece 
butter, 1 teaspoon each of ginger and cinnamon, 
2 scant cups sugar, 3 well-beaten eggs and 3 cups 
hot milk. This quantity is sufficient for 2 pies. 

LEMON TARTS. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoon 
butter rubbed into sugar, 2 cups of flour, sifted 
three times after adding y 2 teaspoon cream tartar. 
Juice of 1 good sized lemon, yolks of 3 eggs. Stir 
well. Line gem pans with a thin pie crust. Fill 
each with mixture and bake. 

TARTS. 

Tarts can be made from any pie crust left over. 
Roll very thin, cut with biscuit cutter. Prick % 
of the number with a fork to keep from blistering. 
In the remaining half cut 3 holes with a thimble. 
Bake in a quick oven. Prepare for the table by 



THE KECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



as 

PASTRY. 113 

placing jelly on the pricked crust and place the one 
with holes over it. 

FROSTING FOR TARTS. 

Four tablespoons sugar and whites of 3 eggs, 
beaten together. Place on top of each tart. Place 
in oven for frosting to harden. 

Another method is to cut the thin crust into ob- 
long pieces, about 3x4 inches. Put jam or jelly be- 
tween two uncooked pieces and moisten the edges 
with water. Cook in a hot oven. 

CINNAMON ROLL. 

Take ordinary pie crust and roll thin. Cover 
with sugar, sprinkle with cinnamon and bits of but- 
ter. Roll up and slice into y 2 inch pieces and cook 
in hot oven. 

BERRY PIES. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

Make a good pastry and fill with any preferred 
berries. Add sugar, y 2 cup for strawberries, % cup 
for raspberries, 3-4 cup for huckleberries, 1 cup for 
wild blackberries, iy 2 cups for gooseberries, l 1 /^ 
cups for currants, 1 tablespoon flour. Mix berries, 
sugar and flour well together before putting into 
crust. Bake in moderate oven. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Pit cherries enough to fill pie plate; % CU P 
sugar; 1 tablespoon flour. Mix cherries, sugar and 
flour well together. Bake in moderate oven. 

CRANBERRY PIE. Pennsylvania Style. 

Line pie plate and fill with cranberries. 1 cup 
sugar, y 2 cup molasses, dust a little flour over from 
sifter. Cover with little strips of crust about y 2 
inch wide, so that it forms the top in little blocks. 

CREAM PRUNE PIE. Mrs. P. T. Turner. 

Stew, stone and mash through colander enough 
prunes to make 1 cup of pulp, sugar to taste, yolks 
of 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 cup rich milk, pinch of salt 
and flavor with vanilla. Bake in an under crust 

a 



Use onl J "ferry's Best Family." 



114 PASTRY. 



as quickly as possible. Frost with whites of 2 eggs 
beaten with 1 good tablespoon sugar. Slightly 
brown in oven. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

1 cup milk, 1 scant cup sugar, cooked together in 
double boiler, with 2 teaspoons cornstarch. When 
nearly cold add well beaten yolks of 2 eggs and any 
preferred flavoring. Bake crust separate; then fill 
with this cream when cool. On this filling put 
whipped cream sweetened to taste. Lastly well 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Do not set in oven to brown, but decorate with 
red hot iron. 

CREAM PIE. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

One pint milk, well beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoon cornstarch dissolved in little milk re- 
served from the pint, 1 small cup sugar. Heat milk, 
sugar, yolks of eggs in a double boiler and slowly 
add cornstarch stirring until it thickens. Kemove 
from fire and flavor. Prick the crust to keep from 
blistering and bake. When filling is cold, fill the 
crust, frost with remaining whites of 2 eggs beaten 
with 1 tablespoon sugar. Slightly brown in oven. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. Mrs. F. B. Hubbard. 

Stir together 1 cup sugar and 2 heaping table- 
spoons flour. Add 1 cup cranberries cut in quarters 
and y 2 CU P raisins seeded and chopped fine. Lastly, 
add 1 cup cold water, pinch of salt and a teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake with 2 crusts and serve cold. 

COCOANUT PIE. Mary Hardy. 

Have your crust baked. 1 pint milk, 4 level table- 
spoons cornstarch, dissolved in a little of the milk, 
well beaten yolks of 2 eggs, y 2 CU P sugar, a little 
salt. Heat the milk and add the mixture stirring 
until well cooked. Fill crust. Frost with beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons 
cocoanut. Sprinkle with cocoanut and brown in 
oven. 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



PASTRY. 115 

CUSTARD PIE. Mrs. H. M. Baker. 

Three eggs well beaten together, 4 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 pint milk, pinch salt, nutmeg to taste. 
Bake in lower crust in quite a hot oven. Be care- 
ful not to over bake. 

CURRANT PIE. Mrs. Geneva Allen. 

Two cups currants mashed fine, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs. Beat all to- 
gether thoroughly. Bake in lower crust only. 
Frost with white of 2 eggs and 1 tablespoon sugar. 
Spread on pie after it is baked and brown in oven. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat 4 eggs very light. (Save white of 1 for 
frosting if desired). Add 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
pinch of salt, flavor to taste. Bring 1 quart milk 
to boiling point. Turn milk on eggs and sugar, 
stirring while doing so. Have ready a deep pie 
tin on which crust is built up around the top. Turn 
in mixture and bake carefully. To try the pie take 
a sharp knife. Insert corner of blade in middle 
of pie. If it seems thick like jelly remove from 
oven. Beat white of egg very light and spread 
over top. Brown for a moment. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. Mrs. Geo. Tatterson. 

Pare the oranges being careful to remove all the 
white part of the peeling. Quarter and slice re- 
moving all seeds, stir in sufficient sugar to suit the 
taste. Let stand for a half hour, drain off the juice, 
place on the stove and when hot stir in a little flour 
mixed smooth with water. Cook for a minute or 
two stirring constantly. Pour over the oranges 
and mix well. 

Mix a dough as you would for baking powder 
biscuits, only use a little more shortening. Divide 
in halves and roll it out a little thinner than for 
biscuit to fit the pan you desire to bake it in. Place 
one portion in the greased pan, spread well with 
soft butter, place the other on top and bake. Sep- 



S 1 the 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



116 PASTRY. 



arate the layers and fill with above mixture and 
serve at once. 

Have plenty of filling. If you have more than 
you can put between the layers, spread a little on 
the top. 

LEMON SHORTCAKE. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

Sift together one pint flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon sugar and ^ teaspoon salt. Into 
this rub 1 tablespoon butter and use sufficient milk 
to mix into a soft dough like biscuit. Divide into 
three parts and roll each the size of a layer cake 
pan. Place 1 cake in the pan and rub over with 
softened butter. Place the second cake on the first, 
butter as before and place the last cake on the top. 
Bake in a hot oven. When done spread the follow- 
ing filling between the layers. Filling: Moisten 
3 level tablespoons cornstarch with cold water and 
stir this into 1 cup boiling water. Add 1 cup sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Cook until smooth, then add 
the juice and part of the grated rind of 1 lemon, 
1 heaping tablespoon butter and 1 well-beaten egg. 
Serve the cake hot. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One quart flour, made into soda biscuit dough, 
diivde and roll two layers that will just fit a jelly 
cake pan. Lay in one, spread a little butter over, 
lay the other on lightly and bake. Meanwhile get 
berries ready; 3 pints or more, hulled, and if very 
large, slice once or twice and sugar plentifully. 
When the cake is done, lift off the top layer. Lay 
the other on the plate. Butter liberally, spread 
on half the berries; put on the other layer inside 
out, butter, and spread on the rest of the berries. 
Serve hot. One may use whipped creame with less 
berries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. Mrs. Sarah Moore. 

Make rich biscuit dough in 2 layers, size neces- 
sary for family. Bake a nice brown and when serv- 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



PASTRY. 



117 



ing put on strawberries and filling. Use one box of 
strawberries in all. Take 7 large or 9 small straw- 
berries and cut but not mash, 2-3 cup sugar, white 
of 1 egg. Beat 5 minutes at a time at intervals 
while getting dinner. This is for filling. Take the 
rest of the box of berries, cut up and add a little 
sugar. Put a little butter on cakes, cover with 
berries and then with filling. 




If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking-powder crust; peel and core 
apples ; roll out crust about 14 f an i ncn thick ; cut 
out circles to fit apples; place latter on dough; fill 
cavity with sugar, a little cinnamon or nutmeg; 
incase each apple in the crust, wet edges and press 
tightly together; put into kettle of boiling water 
slightly salted; boil y 2 an hour, taking care that 
the water covers the dumplings. They are also very 
nice steamed or baked. 

Serve with sugar and cream or any hot sweet 
sauce. 

When boiling them, some prefer tying a cloth 
around each dumpling; others roll them in dry 
flour. 

QUICKLY-MADE APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding dish; fill with a layer of tart 
apples, quartered. Season the same with a bit of 
salt, a little cinnamon, some sugar and butter. Add 
a little water to the apples and when they begin to 
boil cover with small dumplings and let boil, 
closely covered, about 20 minutes. Serve with 
whipped cream or plain cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla. Other fruits may be used. 

Dumplings: 1 cup flour, 1 small teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, little salt, sifted together. Stir up 
with about y 2 CU P> or little more, of milk, stirring 
as little as possible, then drop from a spoon. The 
dough should be thinner than for biscuit, but stiffer 
than for batter. This pudding is made on top of 
stove. 

APPLE PANCAKE. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Sift 2 cups flour and 2 teaspoons baking powder 
into a bowl; add y 2 teaspoon salt and rub through 
the flour y cup butter. Beat 1 egg light and add 
3-1 cup milk to it. Stir the egg and milk into the 
tlour and make a soft dough of it. Spread about 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



f 

PUDDINGS. 119 



an inch thick in shallow pans and fill with slices 
of tart apples. Sprinkle the top with brown sugar 
and cinnamon and dot with bits of butter. Bake 
and serve with cream or a sweet pudding sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. Mrs. C. H. Yost. 

Three cups chopped apple, 1 cup sugar, 3 cups 
fine bread crumbs, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 
y 2 cup citron, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon cloves, a little salt 
and 2 well beaten eggs. Line pudding dish with 
buttered paper, sprinkle with cracker dust and bake 
about 1 hour. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Stew apples that have be'en pared, cored, and 
quartered, until soft. Beat and add to every pint 
of pulp 1/2 CU P f sugar, small piece of butter, y 2 
cup of bread crumbs, and 2 eggs well beaten. Bake 
half an hour. Serve with cream, though the pud- 
ding is good by itself. Over the top sift a little 
powdered sugar. A pint of the apple pulp is the 
foundation of a pudding for four persons. 

APPLE PUDDING. Mrs. Geo. Condict, Lockeford. 

Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apple. 
Season and pour over them a batter made of 1 
tablespoon of butter, y 2 cup sugar, 1 egg, y 2 cup 
sweet milk and 1 cup flour, in which has been sifted 
1 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in a moderate 
oven till brown. Peaches are very nice cooked in 
the same way. Serve with sauce. 

APPLE ROLL. Mrs. Emma Adams. 

Make a crust as for biscuit. Roll out 1 inch thick 
and as large as a plate. Cover with sliced apples, 
seasoned with a small quantity of sugar, spice and 
pinch of salt. Roll up carefully. Lay close to- 
gether in pan and bake y 2 hour in hot oven. Serve 
with sauce. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

m 



120 PUDDINGS. 



APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

One quart apples sliced, y 2 cup sago, soaked in 1 
cup boiling water over night for several hours, y 2 
cup sugar, y 2 CU P cocoanut, little salt and little 
butter, sometimes just a little water, especially if 
apples are dry. Mix well. Bake from iy 2 to 2 
hours in a slow oven. Serve with cream and sugar. 
When done should look like wine jelly. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. Mrs. C. W. Norton. 

Three cups flour, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup hot water, 
3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon each of 
soda and cinnamon, 1 cup raisins, 1 egg, y 2 teaspoon 
cloves. Steam 3 hours. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One pint milk, y 2 cup sugar, pinch of salt. Heat 
this; add 2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in lit- 
tle milk, yolk of 1 egg. Cook until it thickens. Re- 
move from stove and add the white of 1 egg well 
beaten, 3 tablespoons chocolate. Favor with 
vanilla. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Miss Moore. 

One small cup flour and the same of milk. Dis- 
solve a stick of chocolate in a little of the milk. 
Cream, i/ 2 cup sugar and y 2 slice of butter; add 
yolks of four eggs. Stir in the milk, chocolate and 
the flour (unsifted) slowly. Steam 1 hour. Serve 
with cream or pudding sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Mrs. W. P. Steinbeck. 

One large tablespoon Knox's Gelatine, soaked in 
1 cup warm water for 5 or 10 minutes, stirring oc- 
casionally until dissolved, 6 eggs beaten separately, 
until very light, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons choco- 
late, y 2 teaspoon vanilla. Beat all ingredients to- 
gether and let stand until hardened. Serve with 
whipped cream. 



H= 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



g" 

PUDDINGS. 121 

ORANGE PUDDING. Mrs. E. W. Drury. 

Five large oranges, peeled carefully and sliced 
thin; put in an earthen dish and sprinkle with 
sugar. Make a boiled custard of 1 pint milk, y 2 cup 
sugar and 4 eggs, the whites of 2 reserved for frost- 
ing. When custard is cold, pour over the oranges 
and make a frosting of the whites of eggs and a 
little sugar. Spread over top and brown in oven. 

PLUM PUDDING. Mrs. Robert Inglis. 

Three cups sifted flour, 1 cup New Orleans mo- 
lasses, Vo cup brown sugar, y 2 CU P butter, 3 eggs 
beaten light, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 level teaspoons 
soda dissolved in milk, 1 heaping teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 scant teaspoon cloves, y 2 a nutmeg, a little 
salt, 1 cup seeded raisins, y 2 cup shedded citron, 
y 2 cup candied orange peel, cut fine. Mix the dry 
ingredients; add molasses and eggs, soda in the 
milk, melted butter, lastly the fruit well dredged 
in flour. Fill buttered baking powder tins not quite 
two-thirds full and steam l 1 /^ hours. 

GRANDMA'S PLUM PUDDING. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

Take soft part of loaf of bread ; pick into pieces. 
Add 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, butter size of an egg, spices. Steam 3 hours. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One cup prunes, soaked over night and sliced 
fine, 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 2-3 cup 
molasses, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 heaping teaspoon 
soda, pinch of salt, 1/2 teaspoon each of cloves, cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Pour into buttered mold and 
steam 2 hours. 

Sauce: Butter size of an egg, 1 cup sugar, juice 
and a little of the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 egg well 
beaten, 6 tablespoons boiling water, added one at 
a time, until well mixed. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Cream 1 tablespoon of sugar and 1 of butter. 
Add 1 egg, y 2 cup milk, 1 cup flour ( in which sift 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



122 PUDDINGS. 



iy 2 teaspoons baking powder), and y 2 cup raisins, 
seeded and chopped fine. Pour this into 4 well- 
greased cups. Steam y 2 hour. 

PRUNE PUDDING. Mrs. N. E. Jordan. 

Chop fine 1 coffee cup cooked prunes. Add the 
beaten whites of 4 eggs, and a little sugar if de- 
sired. Bake 20 minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

SUET PUDDING. Mrs. J. U. Castle. 

One-half loaf bread crumbs, % cup chopped suet, 
1 cup milk, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 3 eggs, 
1 cup chopped raisins, y 2 cup currants, y 2 teaspoon 
each of spices, y 2 teaspoon soda. Steam 3 hours. 

STEAMED PUDDING. Mrs. G. A. Atherton. 

One small cup suet, 1 cup each of raisins, cur- 
rants and sour milk, % cup syrup, 1 teaspoon soda, 
y 2 teaspoon each of cinnamon, allspice, cloves and 
little nutmeg, flour to make a stiff batter. Steam 
3 hours in a tight can. May be cooked in pound 
baking powder cans in 2 hours. This recipe will 
fill 5 or 6 cans. 

SUET PUDDING. Mrs. D. Crane. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup chopped 
suet, 1 egg, y 2 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup hot water, 
1 teaspoon soda and sufficient flour to make of the 
consistency of cake. 

SALEM STEAM PUDDING. Mrs. H. Baker. 

One cup suet chopped fine, 2,y 2 cups flour, mixed 
with suet, 2-3 cup N. O. molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
chopped and seeded raisins, y teaspoon each of 
cloves and nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, y 2 teaspoon salt. Steam 2y 2 hours. 
Serve with hard or cooked sauce. 

SURPRISE PUDDING. Mrs. John Craig. 

Make a stiff blanc mange as follows: 4 table- 
spoons cornstarch, 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, beaten 
separately, % cup sugar, flavor to taste. Pour into 



=9? 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



S IB 

PUDDINGS. 123 

a flat dish. When cold cut into 2 inch squares, roll 
in sifted cracker crumbs, then in slightly beaten 
egg, then again in crumbs. Drop into boiling lard 
and fry until brown. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve with the following lemon sauce: 

Three-fourth cup butter, 114 cups sugar, 2 table- 
spoons cornstarch. Beat well; add 1 pint of hot 
water, 1 lemon thinly sliced. Cook about 5 minutes. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two-third cup sugar, i/ 2 cup sweet milk, iy 2 cups 
flour, butter size of a walnut, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, y 2 teaspoon soda or 2 scant teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, pinch of salt. Bake in shallow pan. 
Cut into squares and serve with any kind of sauce. 

RICE SLICE. 

Tie loosely in a bag 1 cup raw rice, 1 cup seeded 
raisins, a pinch of salt and boil in salted water for 
2 hours. Slice and serve with cream and sugar. 

SAGO PUDDING. N. E. Jordan. 

" Soak until soft y 2 cup sago in enough cold water 
to cover. Put into a double boiler and cook until 
clear. Add y 2 cup granulated sugar, juice of 1 
lemon and whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Make a boiled custard of 1 pint milk, yolks of 2 
eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, and pour over the cooked 
sago. Serve cold. 

BLACK PUDDING. Mrs. Roblin. 

One-half cup each of chopped raisins, sweet milk 
and molasses, ^ cup butter, 2 cups flour, i/ 2 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in the milk. Steam iy 2 
hours. 

BICE PUDDING. Mrs. A. H. Wright. 

One-half cup raw rice, 3 pints milk, small piece 
butter, pinch of salt, 4 tablespoons sugar. Bake 
slowly 3 hours, stirring every 15 or 20 minutes at 
first. Then let it brown and serve warm or cold. 



Th Thif ifTrue rthest ' Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



124 PUDDINGS. 



PINEAPPLE PUDDING. Mrs. H. E. Adams. 

One-half box gelatine, whites of 3 eggs, 2 cups 
sugar, pint of hot water, juice of 1 lemon. Dissolve 
gelatine in water. Add lemon juice and sugar, mix 
well and strain through cheese cloth into a large 
mixing bowl. When cool enough to begin to 
thicken, stir in whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat mixture until it is thick and snow white all 
through. Add 5 tablespoons grated pineapple. 
Place in molds to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

One cup grated pineapple, 1 cup water, whites 
of 5 eggs, juice of one lemon. Thicken with corn- 
starch to consistency of blanc mange and sweeten 
to taste. Directions: Put water and fruit on to' 
boil; when boiling thicken with cornstarch and let 
boil 15 minutes very slowly; add juice of lemon and 
place dish in cold water. After whipping whites 
of eggs stiff, beat them into hot mixture for 5 
minutes. Put into mold and place on ice. Serve 
with sweetened, whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. Mrs. E. W. Drury. , 

One box Knox's gelatine, l 1 /^ pints warm water, 
enough to dissolve gelatine, 1 pint sugar, juice of 
2 lemons, and juice from 1 pound can of pineapple. 
Strain this mixture and pour over pineapple, which 
has been cut into small pieces. Set in a cool place 
to harden and serve with sweet cream. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Seven tablespoons cornmeal wet with cold water. 
Stir in 1 well-beaten egg. Add 1 quart boiling 
milk, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup cold milk, a little salt 
and cinnamon. Bake 2 hours stirring occasionally 
the first hour. Serve plain or with vinegar sauce. 

CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

One teacup of meal, y 2 cup of flour, stirred to- 
gether with cold milk. Scald one pint of milk and 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



g 

PUDDINGS. 125 

stir the mixture into it and cook until thick; then 
thin with cold milk about like thin batter. Add 
1/2 cup sugar, y 2 cup New Orleans molasses, 2 eggs, 
2 tablespoons butter, little salt, 1 tablespoon of 
mixed nutmeg and cinnamon and 2-3 teaspoon of 
soda, just before putting into oven. Bake two hours. 
After baking half an hour, stir it thoroughly; 
then finish baking. Serve hot with hard sauce or 
cream. 

FIG PUDDING. H. Maude Eaves. 

One cup each of seeded raisins, chopped figs and 
chopped suet, 1 cup sweet milk, 2y 2 cups flour, V/ 2 
cups molasses, 1 level teaspoon soda, y 2 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg. Steam 3 
hours and serve with hard sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. Mrs. John Craig. 

One-half pound figs, chopped fine, 2 cups bread 
crumbs, 3 eggs, y 2 cup suet chopped fine, 1% cups 
sweet milk, y 2 cup sugar, pinch of salt, y 2 tea- 
spoon baking powder, y 2 cup flour. Beat all to- 
gether thoroughly 3 minutes. Put into buttered 
molds or cans with tops; set in boiling water and 
boil 3 hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. Miss Moore. 

Take sufficient stale bread to make a pudding of 
the required size and pour boiling water over it 
Soak the bread so that no crumbs remain. Add 
1/2 cup of grated cocoanut. Make a custard of 1 
quart milk, 4 eggs, 5 tablespoons sugar and a little 
nutmeg. Mix all and bake. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA. 

Soak 1 cup pearl tapioca over night; then cook 
until transparent; if too thick add hot water. When 
done, add one can chopped pineapple and the juice 
also. Sugar to taste. Serve with cream. 

COFFEE PUDDING. Mrs. T. J. Gill. 

One pint bread crumbs wet with cold coffee, 1 
cup brown sugar, 5 eggs (three will do), 1 cup 



Be e st L ^our y ^ se only "Sperry's Best Family." 

m 



126 PUDDINGS. 



raisins, spices to taste, 1 teaspoon soda, y 2 cup mo- 
lasses. Add flour sufficient to make batter a little 
thicker than for hot cakes. Use y 2 teaspoon baking 
powder. Put batter into 3 well-greased 1-pound 
baking powder cans. Set in boiling water and cook 
in iy 2 hours. A little chopped suet is very good in 
this pudding. Any kind of sauce can be used. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One-half pound dates (stoned and chopped), 3 
tablespoons melted butter, y 2 cup molasses, y 2 cup 
milk, 1 2-3 cups flour, y 2 teaspoon soda, 14 teaspoon 
each of salt, cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Thor- 
oughly mix together the dry ingredients. Add the 
others, dates last. Steam l 1 /^ hours and serve with 
hard sauce or whipped cream. 

ENGLISH BATTER PUDDING. 

Two eggs well beaten, a little salt, 4 tablespoons 
sifted flour and 2 cups milk. Bake almost y 2 hour 
and serve hot with butter and sugar. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Two eggs well beaten, y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
1-3 cup syrup, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon each of baking 
powder and cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon each of cloves, 
allspice and nutmeg, 1 pint flour, pinch of salt, 1 
cup walnuts; chopped fine. Steam 2 hours and 
serve with liquid sauce. 

SNOW BALLS. Mrs. J. A. Sanford. 

One teacup sugar, 1 coffee cup flour, 1 even tea- 
spoon baking powder, 2 tablespoons sweet milk, 
3 eggs, well beaten, and flavor with lemon. Pour 
into 7 well-buttered cups and steam 25 minutes. 
When done, take out and roll in powdered sugar. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

SNOW PUDDING. Mrs. C. E. Morehead. 

Pour 1 pint boiling water over y 2 box gelatine; 
add juice of 1 lemon and 2 cups sugar. When nearly 
cold, strain and add the whites of 3 eggs beaten 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



PUDDINGS. 127 



stiffly, and beat all together. Set into mold to shape 
and chill. Make a custard of the yolks of 3 eggs, 

1 pint of milk and 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 4 table- 
spoons sugar and pinch of salt. Pour custard 
around snow when ready to serve. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One-third box gelatine dissolved in y 2 CU P c ld 
water; then add y 2 cup boiling water, y 2 cup sugar 
and juice of 2 lemons. Cut up 3 oranges and 3 
bananas and sprinkle with sugar. Pour the jelly 
over them. Set in a cold place to harden and serve 
with cream, whipped or plain. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Yolks of 2 egg's beaten well, y 2 cup each of milk 
and sugar ; mix with bread crumbs and grated rind 
of 1 lemon, and bake. Take out and spread with 
jelly; then, over this, spread the beaten whites of 

2 eggs and juice of 1 lemon. Place in oven a few 
minutes to brown. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. Mrs. Joe Dietrich. 

One cup tapioca soaked in water 1 hour, 3 eggs, 
1 cup sugar, 1 pint of milk, pinch of salt, and a 
little nutmeg. Bake % hour. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Sift 1 pint flour. Take enough milk from a quart 
to wet it and make a smooth paste, and place re- 
mainder of milk on the stove. When the milk boils, 
add paste, y 2 teaspoon of salt, and finally 2 well- 
beaten eggs. Keep stirring until thoroughly cook- 
ed. Flavor with sugar and nutmeg, and serve with 
cream. If double boiler be used, it takes about 15 
minutes for boiling. If it gets too stiff, a little milk 
may be added. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

One-half pint molasses, y 2 pint water, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 cup seeded raisins, spices to taste, flour to 
make a stiff batter, a little salt. Steam 3 or 4 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



'Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

g " 

128 PUDDINGS. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. Mrs. K. Dortmund. 

One cup cornmeal, 1 pint milk, a little salt, 2 
well-beaten eggs, enough syrup to sweeten; pare 
and slice some apples on top. Cover and bake 2 
hours in a moderate oven. Eemove cover when 
done and brown. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One and y 2 cups graham flour, y 2 cup syrup, y 2 
cup raisins, y 2 cup currants, y 2 cup sour milk, 1 
teaspoon soda, ^4 cup butter, 1 egg, y 2 teaspoon 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice and mace. Steam 2y 2 
hours. Serve with sauce. 

MABSHMALLOW PUDDING. Mrs. C. H. Yost. 

Soak 1 tablespoon gelatine in y 2 cup cold water; 
fill the cup with boiling water. Break the white 
of an egg into deep bowl; pour in the gelatine and 
beat y 2 hour. Add 1 cup sugar, and either a cup 
of nuts, sliced bananas or sliced pineapple and 
serve with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. Mrs. D. M. Watson. 

Place 1 cup light brown sugar in pan on stove 
till it browns and has a caramel taste; then add 

1 tablespoon butter, y 2 cup milk, and cook 12 min- 
utes. Add to it nearly a pint of milk and 2,y 2 
tablespoons cornstarch, stirring constantly. When 
very stiff and well cooked remove from stove. 
Flavor with vanilla and pour into mold. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. 

CABLE PUDDING. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sw^eet milk, 
3% cups flour, 3 eggs, saving whites of 2 for frost- 
ing, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, y 2 teaspoon soda or 

2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in two layers. 
Cut and sugar any kind of fruit two hours before 
serving pudding and place between layers. No 
sauce is required. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



PUDDINGS. 129 



DELICIOUS PEACH PUDDING. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Fill a pudding dish with whole, peeled peaches 
and pour over them 2 cups water. Cover closely 
and bake until peaches are tender; then drain off 
the juice and let it stand until cool. Add to the 
juice 1 pint sweet milk, 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 small 
cup flour with 1 teaspoon baking powder mixed 
in it, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter and 
a little salt. Beat well 3 or 4 minutes and pour 
over peaches. Bake until a rich brown and serve 
with cream or hard sauce flavored to taste. Any 
fruit may be used. 

CARROT PUDDING. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

One cup each of grated carrot, grated raw 
potao, sugar, suet, currants and raisins, 2 cups 
flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda. Steam 3 hours. 
Half the quantity will steam in 1% hours. 1 tea- 
spoon each of all kinds of spices may be added. 

Sauce : y 2 cup butter and 1 cup sugar creamed. 
Beat 2 eggs separately, stirring the yolks into the 
butter and sugar; add 1 tablespoon flour, then 
gradually boiling water, stirring all the time, and 
boil up once. Lastly stir in, gradually, the whites 
of eggs. As fine as plum pudding. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Cream y 2 cup butter; add gradually y 2 cup 
sugar, stirring until light and creamy. Place 
rounded tablespoon cornstarch in a sauce pan, 
moisten with a little cold water; pour in 1 pint 
boiling water and cook clear. Mix all and flavor 
to taste. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat 1 cup white sugar, powdered is best, and 
y 2 cup butter together until thoroughly mixed. 
The longer it is beaten the better. Add any de- 
sired flavoring. Some prefer to use equal 
quantities of butter and sugar, but this makes it 
very rich. Serve cold. 



t L Flour. Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



130 PUDDINGS. 



VINEGAR SAUCE. 

One pint boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon flour mixed smoothly in a little water, !/4 
grated nutmeg and pinch of salt. Boil 10 minutes. 
Just before serving add 1 tablespoon butter and 2 
tablespoons vinegar. 

CREAM SAUCE. Mrs. Geo. W. Tatterson. 

Cream together 1 cup powdered sugar a nd scant 
1/2 cup butter. Add y 2 cup cream and stir all into 
1/2 cup boiling water. Cook for a few moments, 
stirring constantly. Flavor to taste. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. L. M. Moore. 

One tablespoon butter, 1 cup of white sugar, 1 
tablespoon cold water. Put these on the stove to 
brown; add hot water to make the required quan- 
tity; thicken with 1 teaspoon flour dissolved in a 
little water. Flavor with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One pint milk or cream, y 2 cup sugar, white of 
1 egg beaten lightly, 1 small tablespoon corn- 
starch. Favor with nutmeg. 

PRUNE PUDDING. Mrs. F. W. Wurster. 

One and y 2 cups flour, 1 heaping cup cooked 
prunes chopped, y 2 cup molasses, y 2 cup sour or 
sweet milk, y cup butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 
pinch of salt, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, a 
little nutmeg. Steam 2y 2 hours. Serve with hard 
sauce. 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



BE a 

LIGHT DESSERTS 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE (Fine). Mrs. Sanborn, Benicia. 

Soak !/4 box Knox's gelatine in y 2 cup of sweet 
milk y 2 hour, and when dissolved set cup in hot 
water. Take 1 pint whipped cream; add y 2 cup 
pulverized sugar, a little salt and the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, and flavor with vanilla. Add 
gelatine lukewarm and strain while adding. Stir 
until gelatine is well mixed with cream, and when 
nearly stiff enough to drop, turn into bread tin or 
mold lined with lady fingers or narrow slices of 
sponge cake which have been dipped into the 
white of an egg to hold them together, and have 
it even on top to set well when turned out. A 
tablespoon of strawberry juice added will im- 
prove it, or one can use other flavorings. Split the 
lady-fingers, putting round side next to tin, and 
where they do not fit accurately put in small 
pieces. Needs about 1 pound lady-fingers. Must 
be made day before using. Served in slices. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

To 1 quart apples stewed and well mashed add 
the whites of 3 eggs well beaten and 4 heaping 
tablespoons sugar. Beat all together 15 minutes. 
Serve with rich milk. Flavor with nutmeg. 

AMBROSIA. 

Peel and slice 8 fine oranges, y 2 cocoanut, 
grated, i/ 2 cup pulverized sugar. Arrange oranges 
in glass dish, scatter cocoanut thickly over them. 
Sprinkle with sugar, then place another layer of 
oranges, and so on until all are used. Serve at 
once. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. Mrs. R. J. Quinn. 

Two heaping teaspoons gelatine, 1-3 cup cold 
water, 1-3 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
apple sauce, juice of 1 lemon, whites of 3 eggs. 
Soften gelatine in cold water; dissolve in boiling 
water; add sugar, then juice of lemon; strain. 



Uee onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



132 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

When cool add apple sauce. When jelly begins 
to set, beat with a whisk until light. Add whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. Beat all together thor- 
oughly. Turn into moulds and serve with whipped 
cream. 

STRAWBERRIES AND WHIPPED CREAM. 

Mrs. McKenzie. 

Line a glass dish with lady fingers. Place in 
the dish a layer of berries, one of powdered sugar, 
then a layer of whipped cream and so on until 
dish is filled. Heap cream roughly on top layer, 
dot with berries, sprinkle with sugar. Serve when 
thoroughly cold. 

AN EASILY-MADE DESSERT. 

Fill the bottom of a dish with strawberries. 
Boil well some cornstarch in milk; salt, sweeten 
and flavor. Cool a little after taking from the 
fire; then pour over the berries and set aside to 
get cold. Serve with cream and sugar flavored 
with vanilla or serve with whipped cream. Make 
cornstarch just stiff enough to pour easily. 

FROZEN PEACH. Mrs. A. S. Hudson. 

One pint canned peaches rubbed through a col- 
ander, 1 pint peach juice, 1 pint water, 1 pint 
sugar and juice of 1 lemon. Mix all together and 
freeze same as ice cream. 

A DELICIOUS DESSERT. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

Sugar 1 pint raspberries. Set aside. Heat a 
glass of grape juice and sweeten to taste. Into 
this stir the yolks of 6 eggs beaten light. Cook a 
few minutes and set to cool. Use 1 pound maca- 
roons. Place in a dish a layer of macaroons, rasp- 
berries and grape custard, alternately, until dish 
is full. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and spread 
on top. Place in oven to brown slightly. When 
cut the colors are brown, red, yellow and white. 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



m 

LIGHT DESSERTS. 133 

PINEAPPLE DESSERT. 

Place alternate layers of halved lady-fingers 
and diced pineapple in dish and pour over all a 
pint of whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Dissolve 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine in 
1/2 cup cold water. Add 1 cup hot water in which 
1 cup sugar has been dissolved. Add 1 cup fresh 
pineapple, juice and grated pulp, and 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice. Pour into a mould. Serve 
very cold with whipped cream. 

FRIED CREAM. Mrs. Henry Adams. 

One pint milk, 1 tablespoon cornstorch, 4 table- 
spoons flour, yolks of 3 eggs, y> cup su?;ar and 14 
of a nutmeg (grated). Scald % pint of milk and 
reserve y pint in which to mix the flour and corn- 
starch, stirring constantly until a smooth paste. 
Add to the hot milk and stir rapidly until quite 
thick', then add the yolks beaten lightly, the sugar 
and nutmeg. Cook a moment longer. Pour into 
a square pan to cool. When cold turn out on a 
board, cut in squares, dip in white of egg, then in 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard until a light 
brown. 

MOONSHINE. Mrs. T. J. Gill. 

Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a very stiff froth; 
add gadually 6 tablespoons powdered sugar (to 
make it thicken use more sugar until 1 pint is 
used). Beat y 2 hour, then beat in 1 tablespoon 
preserved peaches cut in tiny bits. Set on ice 
until thoroughly chilled. In serving pour in indi- 
vidual dishes some rich cream sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla. On the cream place a lib- 
eral portion of the moonshine. This will serve 
7 or 8 persons. 

STRAWBERRY GELATINE. Mrs. T. A. Nelson. 

One-half box gelatine, iy 2 teacups sugar, V 2 
pint cold water, 1 quart strawberries, VL- pi nt 
boiling water, 2 lemons, y 2 pint of cream. Soak 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



134 LIGHT DESSERTS. 



the gelatine in the cold water for 20 minutes, then 
add the boiling water and stir until gelatine is 
dissolved. Add the sugar and the juice from the 
lemons; then strain the whole into a measuring 
cup and add sufficient cold water to make iy 2 
pints of the whole. Wet a tin mould with cold 
water and place a small jam jar in middle to make 
a hollow center when finished, placing a weight 
inside of jar to keep it in place. Pour y of gela- 
tine mixture in mould and set on ice to thicken, 
keeping the remainder in a warm place. As soon 
as the jelly sets, add a deep layer of the stemmed 
fruit, then pour in more of the mixture. Again 
set on ice and when it thickens, add another layer 
of the fruit and mixture until all are used. When 
ready to serve put a little hot water in jar and 
when jelly is released from sides remove jar. Set 
mould for a moment in hot water to free sides. 
Turn out upon a flat serving dish. Sweeten cream, 
whip to a froth, and heap it into the hollow center 
made by the jar. 

STRAWBERRY FOAM. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Wash 1 cup hulled strawberries and press 
through a sieve; beat 1 cup cream till stiff; beat 
whites of 2 eggs until dry; then gradually beat 
into the eggs y 2 cup powdered sugar and continue 
beating till very stiff; fold in the cream and 
strawberry juice and set on ice to chill. Serve 
cold in dainty thin glasses, with lady-fingers. 

BLANC MANGE. 

Beat 3 eggs thoroughly and add to them 4 table- 
spoons cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk. 
Let 1 quart milk come to boiling point and stir in 
the eggs and cornstarch. Stir briskly until cooked. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla and pour into mould 
to cool. Sweeten to taste while cooking or eat 
with cream and sugar. Can be made without eggs 
if preferred. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 135 

BANANA FRITTERS. Mrs. Henry Adams. 

One heaping cup flour, yolks of 2 eggs, pinch 
of salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup water. 
Add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in 
lightly 2 or 3 bananas cut in thin strips. Fry in 
hot lard. Dust with powdered sugar. This will 
serve 8 persons. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBERT. 

Crush to a smooth paste 1 quart strawberries. 
Add 3 pints water, juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon 
orange flower water. Strain and add % pound 
white sugar. Stir till sugar is dissolved. Strain 
again and set on ice till very cold. 

PEACH SHERBERT. Mrs. C. H. Keagle. 

Make a syrup of 1 quart water, 1 pint sugar. 
Add 1 teaspoon gelatine soaked in cold water. 
Strain, then add 1 quart yellow peaches, pared 
and passed through a sieve, juice of 1 lemon. 
Freeze like ice cream. 

LEMON SHERBERT. 

Four cups water, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup lemon 
juice. Freeze. Take out dasher and add to sherbet 
the stiffly beaten white of 1 egg. Stir in. Pack 
like ice cream. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. Mrs. F. B. Hubbard. 

Boil 2 teacups sugar and 1 quart water 5 min- 
utes. When cold, add juice of 1 lemon and a small 
can pineapple. Fresh fruit can be substitute^ 
After freezing for a few moments open freezer 
and add the white of 1 >egg well beaten. Cover 
and finish freezing. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. Mrs. D. M. Watson. 

Two cans of grated pineapple, 1 pint sugar, 2 
lemons, 1 quart water, whites of 2 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon Knox's gelatine dissolved in 1 cup cold 
water. Boil sugar and water together for 5 min- 
utes, take from fire; add lemon juice, pineapple 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



136 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

and dissolved gelatine, and lastly the eggs well 
beaten. Freeze as soon as cool. This makes about 
% gallon sherbet. 

BANANA SHERBET. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

Make a syrup of 1 pint sugar and 1 quart water. 
When ready to boil set aside to cool. Add juice 
of 1 lemon and 2 oranges, also 1 dozen ripe bananas, 
peeled and mashed smooth. Stir all together well 
and freeze. When it begins to thicken open freezer 
and add the whites of 2 eggs well beaten. Cover 
and freeze like ice cream. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Make a custard of 6 eggs, 1 quart milk, small 
pinch salt, sugar to taste; beat and strain yolks 
before adding milk; place custard in double boiler, 
stirring constantly until it boils; remove, flavor 
with lemon, rose or vanilla, and pour into a shal- 
low dish. Spread over the boiling hot custard the 
well-beaten whites, to which a little sugar has 
been added; then set aside to chill. Some turn 
the custard into glasses and serve with whipped 
cream or frothed whites of eggs on top, finishing 
with a lump of jelly in center. When the whites 
have been sufficiently whipped, some prepare 
them by placing a tablespoonful at a time on boil- 
ing water or milk, lifting them out carefully when 
cooked and placing them gently on the float. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. Mrs. Roberts. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon cornstarch. Boil milk. Put sugar in frying 
pan and burn to rich chocolate brown. Stir con- 
stantly until melted. Pour in milk, let stand on 
stove and stir until dissolved. Beat yolks, add 
cornstarch dissolved in little milk. Pour hot mix- 
ture on eggs, stirring constantly. Bake in moder- 
ate oven, as a custard. Add meringue of whites 
of eggs and brown. 



I 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 137 

CARAMEL CUSTARD IN CUPS (Fine). 

Miss Gurnee, O. C. S. 

Melt 4 tablespoons sugar until light brown ; pour 
it into 6 cups and shake quickly so the caramel 
will line them. Beat 3 eggs without separating. 
Add to them 3 tablespoons sugar, II/Q cups cream 
and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Thoroughly mix all, and 
pour over the caramel. Set the cups in a baking 
pan of hot water and bake in the oven 10 or 15 min- 
utes, until set in the center. Serve cold. 

APPLE CUSTARD. Grandma. 

Pare and core 8 or 10 medium-sized apples. Lay 
them in cold water until a syrup is prepared in 
which to boil them. Make a syrup of 1 cup water, 
juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, % cup sugar, and 
a few pieces of stick cinnamon. Put in the apples 
and simmer until soft. Take them up, nicely 
drained and place in dish for table. Boil syrup and 
pour over them. Make a soft custard with yolks 
of 4 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar and 1 scant quart 
milk. When cold, spread over the apples. Whip 
the whites of the eggs, flavor with lemon and place 
on custard. Set in oven long enough to color 
frosting. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Mrs. Emma Adams. 

Five eggs beaten with 2 cups sugar. Add juice 
of 2 oranges and rind of 1 and 2i/ 2 cups milk. Fill 
cups and bake y> hour. 

PRUNE WHIP. Mrs. Ida M. Stites. 

Soak 12 large prunes over night. Stew until 
tender. (Try with a straw). Remove pits. Cut 
very small ; add y> cup sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, 
beaten stiff, 1 heaping teaspoon cream tartar. Beat 
all together and pour into baking dish. Place in 
moderate oven until whites of eggs are brown. 
Serve in same dish as cooked in. Beat yolks and 
add to milk for sauce. Sufficient quantiy for 6 
persons. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



138 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

PRUNE WHIP. Mrs. T. A. Nelson. 

To % pound prunes stewed very soft and strained 
through a colander add 4 tablespoons fine sugar, 
whites of 4 eggs, well beaten. Bake 20 minutes in 
slow oven. When cold serve with whipped cream. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. Mrs. J. O. Derr. 

One quart nice ripe peaches after they are 
mashed fine, about 1 quart of pure sweet cream, 4 
cups sugar and whites of 2 eggs. Freeze without 
cooking. 

ICE CREAM. Louise Wurster. 

Heat thoroughly 1 quart milk, 1 cup sugar and 5 
eggs well beaten. When cold flavor and add 1 pint 
cream. 

ICE CREAM. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Twelve eggs well beaten, 1 gallon milk, 4 teacups 
sugar, 1 pint rich cream, flavor to taste. Heat 
milk to boiling point. Turn on to the eggs and 
sugar. When cool enough to freeze add cream and 
flavoring. One-half of the above ingredients will 
make a gallon of ice cream. Instead of the cream, 
2 teaspoons cornstarch dissolved in a little cold 
milk and stirred into the boiling milk can be used 
with satisfactory results. 

ICE CREAM (Fine). 

One pint fresh cream, y 2 can condensed cream, 5 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 11/2 
(large) cups sugar beaten with yolks of eggs. 
Flavor with vanilla. Do not boil. This makes 1 
gallon. (Sweetening and flavoring freeze out 
some). 

SPANISH CREAM. Mrs. A. Truscott. 

Soak 1/2 box gelatine in enough water to cover. 
Scald 1 quart milk. Stir in gelatine until dissolved. 
Beat together yolks of eggs and 1 small cup sugar. 
Turn hot mixture on eggs and sugar. Return to 
stove and stir rapidly until it thickens. Remove 
from stove and add beaten whites of 4 eggs. Turn 
into moulds to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 139 

' DUCHESSE CREAM Mrs. J. O. Derr. 

One cup tapioca covered with water over night. 
Drain and cover with hot water. Simmer until it 
becomes clear, stirring all the tima Add juice of 

2 lemons, 1 can chopped pineapple, 2 cups sugar, 
and beaten whites of 2 eggs. Serve with cream. 

TAPIOCA OR LEMON CREAM. Mrs. P. B. Hubbard. 

Two tablespoons pearl tapioca soaked over night ; 
drain. Cook with l 1 /^ pints milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 

3 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. 
When cooked beat in whites of eggs. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. H. Maude Eaves. 

Boil 1 pint rich milk, 4 tablespoons sugar. Add 
1/2 box gelatine, While this is cooling whip 1 pint 
cream very stiff. When mixture is nearly cold stir 
in the whipped cream. Pour into moulds. Flavor 
to taste. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Three tablespoons tapioca soaked in 1 cup water 
over night. Boil 1 quart milk and stir in tapioca 
until it thickens. While on the stove stir in the 
well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 tea- 
spoons vanilla or lemon and pinch of salt. Beat 
whites of eggs for frosting. When thoroughly 
beaten pour boiling water over them. Drain off 
water and drop frosting in spoonfuls over the 
tapioca after it has become cold. A nice dish for 
invalids. 

NAPOLEON CREAM. Mrs. P. Dohrmann. 

Bring 1 quart milk to boiling point. Add 6 well- 
beaten eggs creamed with 4 tablespoons sugar, 
pinch of salt, butter size of a walnut and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Stir constantly until it thickens. Pour 
into a dish and set aside to cool. Before serving 
beat the whites of 4 eggs very light. When frosting 
will stand alone beat into it, gradually, y 2 glass 
currant jelly and 5 drops extract of rose. Drop in 
spoonfuls over pudding after it is cold. 



* 



Th Th!fif Tru f e rthest ' Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



140 LIGHT DESSERTS. 



LEMON CREAM. Miss Gurnee, Oakland Cooking School. 

Two eggs, juice of 1 lemon, little of grated rind, 
1/2 CU P sugar, 14 cup cold water. Beat eggs very 
light; add lemon juice and rind, sugar and water. 
Cook in double boiler until like thick cream. Beat 
with egg beater while cooking. May be flavored 
vanilla. Serve cold. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. Mrs. J. M. Royce. 

Select a well-shaped, ripe pineapple. Cut off the 
upper end and remove all the flesh from the center, 
keeping the shell in good shape. Set the rind on 
ice to become chilled and shred the pineapple re- 
moving the core. To each pint of fruit allow 3 cups 
water and a pint of sugar. Boil all for 15 minutes, 
then add 1 teaspoon of gelatine dissolved in cold 
water and press the whole through cheese cloth. 
When cold add juice of 2 lemons, and freeze to the 
consitency of mush. Then add 1 cup of cream 
whipped stiff. Pour into the pineapple shell, heap- 
ing it lightly on top. Set the shell in the can of the 
freezer, or any pail of sufficient size which is tightly 
covered. Bury in ice and salt for 1 hour. This can 
be colored with coloring paste to please the eye. 

HAMBURG CREAM. A. Friend. 

Two large lemons, juice and rind ; 1 cup sugar, 8 
eggs. Stir together the juice, rind and sugar; add 
the well-beaten yolks. Put all in a tin pall and set 
in a pot of boiling water (if you have not a double 
boiler) ; stir for 3 minutes, take from the fire; add 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Serve when cold. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Make a syrup of 3 cups sugar and a little water. 
When ready to boil, add juice of 5 or 6 lemons, ^4 
box gelatine (soak gelatine in a little cold water), 
1/2 box strawberries, crushed smoothly and sweet- 
ened a little. Add enough water to make a little 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 141 

less than 1 gallon. After freezing slightly, add 
well-beaten whites of 2 eggs and stir rapidly. Close 
can and finish freezing. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. Florence Padgham. 

One !/2 pints cold water, y 2 pint sugar. Boil to- 
gether for 10 minutes. Juice of 1 lemon. Beat 
white of 1 egg very stiff. Large !/2 CU P pineapple. 
Mix pineapple and lemon with syrup after latter 
is cold. Add last the beaten white. Freeze. 

LEMON ICE. 

Boil 3 pints water, li/ 2 Ibs sugar and rinds of 2 
lemons, 1.0 minutes. Strain; when cool add juice 
of 6 large lemons, being careful to remove all the 
seeds and pulp. Mix well and freeze. 

RHUBARB ICE.^-Mrs. Al. Davidson. 

Stew nice young pie-plant with juice and rind of 
1 lemon, until rhubarb is tender. Strain and add 
sugar to taste. Freeze and serve at once. 




Know the Luxury TTsA nnlv "ST\ATTV'H "RAftt 

of the Best Flour. u se oni y operry s isest 



of the Best Flour. 

ff = 



CAKES 



HINTS ON CAKE-MAKING AND BAKING. 

To have perfect success, the cook must use 
judgment and care. First prepare your pans; 
cover bottom of pan with paper, grease well (for 
which lard is better than butter), then sprinkle 
with flour; turn the pan over, and the flour that is 
left will keep the cake smooth and make it come out 
nicely. For layer cake do the same, but do not use 
the paper. For mixing, earthen or granite ware is 
much better than tin. In regard to mixing cake, 
cooks differ. 

Some cream butter and sugar, add eggs, milk, 
flavoring, then flour with the baking powder. Some 
think that the better way is to always separate the 
whites from yolks, breaking yolks into mixing dish 
and whites into a shallow plate. Beat whites stiff 
and mix with the beaten yolks; add the sugar, 
sifted, the butter, soft but not oily, the milk, the 
flour with the baking powder, and lastly the flavor- 
ing. It is usually advisable to follow directions as 
given for the particular cake desired. 

Never stir cake. Beat it thoroughly, bringing 
the batter up from the bottom of the dish at every 
stroke. Always sift the baking powder with the 
flour. Fine cane sugar, sifted, is the best. If fewer 
eggs are used than directed, use a little more bak- 
ing powder. Eggs beat lighter when cold and 
fresh. A small pinch of salt added helps to cool 
and freshen them. Some cake-makers prefer to use 
cold water instead of sweet milk. 

Always test your dough. Place a spoonful in a 
small patty pan and bake. If it raises higher in 
the center, it has plenty of flour. If it is level, it 

This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



CAKES. 143 

needs a little more flour. If it goes to a decided 
peak, it has too much flour and a very little milk 
should be added. A funnel pan is preferable for all 
fine loaf cakes. They are less liable to fall. Layer 
cakes require a hot oven; loaf cakes a moderate 
one, allowing heat to increase. Cakes containing 
molasses should have a very slow oven, as they burn 
easily. 

All except layer cakes should be covered with a 
paper cap, while baking. Take a square of brown 
paper large enough to cover well the cake pan. Cut 
off the corners and lay a plait on four sides, fasten- 
ing each with a pin so as to fit nicely over the pan. 
This will throw it up in the center so that the cover 
will not touch the cake. Save the cap as it can be 
used several times. 

Be careful not to remove cake from the oven be- 
fore done. Test with a clean broom-splint or knit- 
ting needle, and if the dough does not adhere it is 
done. When removed, set the cake while in the pan, 
on an inverted sieve to cool evenly. It should re- 
main in the pan at least fifteen minutes after leav- 
ing the oven. 

To prepare currant and raisins: Wash currants 
in warm water, rubbing well and changing water 
until clear; dry in a sieve; spread on a cloth and 
rub; pick out poor ones. Put others into a warm 
oven to dry thoroughly before using. 

Raisins for cake should never be washed. The 
moisture would tend to make cake heavy. Dredge 
them with flour and add just before putting into 
the oven; otherwise they will sink to the bottom 
if the cake is allowed to stand. 

Fruit cakes keep well in waxed paper ; better and 
longer if wrapped in tin foil. Cut citron and 
orange peel fine; never chop. 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 



144 CAKES. 



SCRIPTURE CAKE. Mrs. G. W. Grupe. 

1 cup butter Judges, 5-25. 

2 cups sugar Jeremiah, 6-20. 

3y 2 cups flour 1 Kings, 4-22. 

3 cups figs or other fruit 1 Sam., 30-12. 

1 cup nuts Genesis, 43-11. 

1 cup sour milk, pinch of soda Exodus, 3-8. 

5 eggs Isaiah, 10-14. 

Pinch of salt Leviticus, 2-13. 

1 large spoonful water Genesis, 24-20. 

Spices to taste 1 King's 10-2. 

Follow Solomon's advice for making a good boy 
(first clause, Proverbs, 23-14) and you will have a 
good cake. 

PORK CAKE (Fine). 

One pound fat pork, 4 eggs, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup sugar, 2-3 cup hot water, 1 cup (large) raisins, 
2-3 cup currants, 2 teaspoons soda. Spice of all 
kinds. This makes 2 large cakes, which will keep 
like fruit cake. 

Chop pork very fine; pour the hot water over it 
(coffee is better), then let it cool When cool put in 
sugar, molasses, raisins, then eggs. Flour last with 
soda mixed into it. Apples may be substituted for 
raisins but they should be boiled in molasses to 
give rich color. 

WEDDING FRUIT CAKE. Mrs. W. B. Harrison. 

Two Ibs sugar, 1% Ibs butter, 2 Ibs flour, 4 Ibs 
currants, 4 Ibs raisins, 1 Ib citron. 10 eggs, y 2 pint 
syrup, Vo pint sour milk, 1 gill fruit juice, 1 cup 
chopped almonds, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon 
each of mace, cloves, cinnamon and 1 nutmeg. 

FRUIT CAKE. Mrs. P. T. Turner. 

One-half Ib flour, y 2 Ib butter, y 2 Ib sugar, 5 eggs, 
li/2 Ibs raisins, 1 Ib currants, y 2 Ib citron, y 2 table- 
spoon mace, 114 tablespoon clotves/il tablespoon each 
of cinnamon and nutmeg. Scant y 2 teaspoon soda, 
!/4 cup syrup, and 1 cup chopped nuts. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



CAKES. 145 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Two Ibs sugar, 2 Ibs butter, 2y 2 Ibs flour, 15 
eggs, 1 Ib citron cut fine, 3 Ibs currants, 3 Ibs stoned 
raisins, i/o cup \vetting, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 nutmegs, 1 tablespoon each, cloves, cinna- 
mon and mace, 1 orange. Nuts may be added. Bake 
4 or 5 hours. Will make 2 large cakes. 

FRUIT CAKE. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

One Ib flour, 1 Ib butter, 1 Ib sugar, 3 Ibs raisins, 
3 Ibs currants, 1 Ib citron, 14 Ib flour in which to 
roll fruit, 12 eggs, 4 nutmegs, 1 oz. mace, 1 tea- 
spoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves and y 2 tea- 
spoon allspice, y 2 pint molasses. Chop half the 
raisins. The cake is much improved by stoning all 
the raisins. Bake in a deep pan in a moderate oven 
for several hours. Cake is much improved by bak- 
ing several months before using. 

FRUIT CAKE. Mrs. C. E. Morehead. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup sour cream, 4 eggs, 3y 2 cups flour, 1 cup rais- 
ins, 2 cups currants, some citron, cut fine, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon and soda. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, 2-3 cup butter, i/ 2 cup 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 3 cups raisins, y 2 cup citron, cut fine, 1 table- 
spoon each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, 2 table- 
spoons w r etting. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. Mrs. E. J. Matteson. 

Pour boiling water over l 1 /^ cups dried apples 
and let stand over night. Chop apples and let sim- 
mer in % cup molasses till almost dry. Let stand 
until cool and flour same as any fruit, 1 cup sugar, 
2 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
milk, 1 tablespoon butter and all kinds of spices, 
flour to make a thin batter. Add apples last. 



no theBest L F X iou? Use only "Spercy's Best Family." 

a 



146 CAKES. 



DRIED APPLE CAKE. Mrs. D. O. Castle. 

Soak 2 cups dried apples over night. In morn- 
ing chop fine. Add % cup molasses, 1 cup light 
brown sugar, 1 cup butter warmed a little, 4 eggs, 
1/2 CU P sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 2y 2 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon all kinds of spices, 1 cup raisins, seeded, 
chopped and rolled in flour. This cake will keep 
some time. Bake in slow oven. 

APPLE CAKE. Mrs. R. A. Taylor. 

Soak 3 cups dried apples in water over night. In 
morning, chop fine and boil % of an hour in 2 cups 
of syrup; when cool add 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup sour milk (in which dissolve 1 teaspoon 
soda), 4 eggs, 4 cups flour (containing 2,y 2 tea- 
spoons yeast powder), 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon 
each of nutmeg, cloves and 2 of cinnamon. 

POUND CAKE. Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Two large cups sugar, iy 2 cups butter (scant), 
8 eggs, 2 cups unsifted flour, 1 even teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, and flavor with lemon. If baked in 1 
pan, bake 1 hour. Better if baked in a funnel pan. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. Mrs. A. Truscott. 

Whites of 12 eggs, 1 pound sugar, % pound but- 
ter, 1 pound sifted flour, 1 pound shredded cocoa- 
nut, 1 pound blanched and chopped almonds, y 2 
pound chopped citron, y 2 glass milk or water, 1 
teaspoon baking powder. 

POUND CAKE. Mrs. J. U. Castle. 

10 eggs, 3 good cups flour, 3 scant cups sugar, 
~Ly 2 cups butter. Add 4 tablespoons of hot water 
to the sugar and butter before creaming. Cream 
well, then beat in eggs, 1 at a tinm Add sifted 
flour with 1 small teaspoon baking powder. Beat 
all together thoroughly. Flavor. 

DELICIOUS PLAIN CAKE. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Two cups sifted sugar and 1 scant cup butter 
beaten together. Add 3 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



CAKES. 147 

milk, 3 cups flour, measured after sifting 3 or 4 
times. Sift with flour 1 teaspoon cream tartar and 
y 2 teaspoon soda or 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Add the milk and flour alternately. Flavor to suit. 
The oven should be quite hot when cake is first put 
in, then keep a slow even fire. 

WHITE PERFECTION CAKE. Mrs. G. C. Hyatt. 

Three cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 
cups flour, 1 cup cornstarch, whites of 12 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 
of soda sifted into the flour. Dissolve the corn- 
starch in the milk and add it to the sugar and 
butter ; beat well together ; add milk, then flour and 
lastly the whites of eggs. Flavor. 

PLAIN WHITE CAKE. Mrs. F. B. Hubbard. 

Whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup 
butter, y 2 CU P sweet milk, 1 cup flour, y 2 cup corn- 
starch, 1/2 teaspoon cream tartar, 14 teaspoon soda. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. Mrs. Sanborn. 

Five whole eggs and whites of 2 extra, 1 cup 
sugar sifted 5 times, 2-3 cup flour sifted 5 times, 
then take measure, 1-3 teaspoon cream tartar and 
pinch of salt in flour, flavor with lemon. 

Beat yolks very light; when whites are half 
beaten, add cream tartar to them and beat very stiff. 
Stir in yolks and sugar well beaten together; fold 
in flour last, but as easily as possible. Bake in slow 
oven from 35 to 50 minutes, in a funnel pan, 
ungreased. Use yolks of the 2 extra eggs for frost- 
ing. 

DORCAS CAKE. Mrs. H. E. Adams. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter rubbed to a t;ream, 
y 2 cup milk, 1 heaping cup of flour sifted with 1 
teaspoon of baking powder. Whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth folded in last. Flavor with 
orange. 

Frosting: Beat the yolks of the eggs with 5 
heaping teaspoons of powdered sugar 15 minutes. 
Flavor with orange. 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



148 CAKES. 



CANARY CAKE. Mrs. McKenzie. 

One-half cup butter, iy 2 cups sugar, l 1 /^ cups 
flour, y 2 cup milk, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Cream butter and sugar and 
add yolks of eggs, one at a time without beating, 
and stir well until all the yolks are in; then add 
milk and flavoring; then flour; then whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff; and last of all the baking powder. 
Bake for more than 1 hour in a very slow oven, in- 
creasing the heat gradually. 

POND LILY CAKE. 

One cup butter, iy 2 cups sugar creamed 
thoroughly. Add well-beaten whites of 2 eggs, then 
beat entire mixture 5 minutes. Add well-beaten 
whites of 2 more eggs; beat again; then add the 
white of one more, and beat for 5 minutes. Stir in 
1 cup milk a little at a time. When milk is all 
added be sure the sugar is dissolved. Add V/ 2 pints 
flour with ~Ly 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor. 
Best baked in a funnel pan or in 2 small loaves. 
Frost with boiled frosting. 

DELICATE CAKE. Mrs. C. Yost. 

Two cups sifted sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 
1 cup cornstarch, 2 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon lemon, whites of 7 eggs 
beaten very stiff and folded in last. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. Mrs. W. F. Jordan. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups 
flour, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 cup chopped raisins. 

MARBLE CAKE. Mrs. E. J. Matteson. 

Light part : iy 2 cups white sugar, y 2 cup butter, 
!/2 cup sweet milk, w T hites of 4 eggs, 2y 2 CUP 8 fl ur 
into which sift 1 teaspoon cream tartar and y 2 tea- 
spoon soda. 

Dark part : 1 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 
y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup sour milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 2y 2 
cups flour into which has been sifted 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar and y 2 teaspoon soda, and 1 teaspoon 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



CAKES. 149 

each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg. 
Drop into cake pan in alternate spoonfuls. 

MARBLE CAKE. Mrs. G. W. Grupe. 

Cream % cup butter with iy 2 cups sugar. Add 
1 cup milk, 21/2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der and whites of 5 eggs. Sift flour with baking 
powder adding alternately with eggs. Flavoring. 
To make the marble, divide the batter into 3 parts. 
To one part add a tablespoon ground chocolate; to 
the second, a few drops of fruit coloring, leaving 
the last white. Place alternately by spoonfuls in 
baking pan. 

MARBLED 'CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, and 1 cup sugar beaten to a 
cream, y 2 cup sweet milk (cream is better), iy 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and whites of 
4 eggs, added last Take 1 cup of this mixture, add 
to it 5 tablespoons grated chocolate, wet with milk 
and flavored with vanilla. Put a layer of white 
batter in cake pan; drop the chocolate batter with 
a spoon in spots; add the remainder of the white 
batter and bake. Use chocolate icing. 

MARBLE CAKE. Mrs. E. J. Matteson. 

Light part : l 1 /^ cups white sugar, y 2 cup butter, 
y 2 cup sweet milk, 2y 2 cups flour, y> teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar and whites of 4 eggs well 
beaten and added last. 

Dark part : 1 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 
1/2 cup butter, y 2 cup sour milk, y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon cream tartar, yolks of 4 eggs and 2y 2 cups 
flour. 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice and nutmeg. 

LEMON CAKE. May Oldham. 

Cream together 1 cup sugar and 1-3 cup butter. 
Add 3 eggs beaten very light, iy 2 cups flour sifted 
twice with I 1 /*? teaspoons baking powder and pinch 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



150 CAKES. 



of salt, also the grated rind of 1 lemon. Beat rap- 
idly for 5 minutes. Pour into a well-greased pan 
and bake in a slow oven. When done mix juice of 
1 lemon with 2-3 cup sugar and spread over the 
top. An orange may be used instead of the lemon. 

ANGEL CAKE (Fine). 

One cup flour, 1^ cups granulated sugar, 11 eggs 
(whites), 1 teaspoon vanilla or almond, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar. Sift flour 4 times then measure. 
Add cream tartar and sift 4 times more. Sift sugar 
3 times through flour sieve. Beat whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, add sugar, a little at a time, then 
flour and lastly vanilla. Beat up well. Do not 
butter pan, but lay paper in bottom of it. Bake 40 
or 45 minutes in a moderate oven. When done turn 
the pan up side down but let air get under. If the 
cake does not come out after standing an hour or 
so, run a knife around gently. Frost cake on down 
side with a cream frosting: 1^ cups powdered 
sugar whipped into 6 tablespoons thick cream until 
it looks like and has consistency of other icing. This 
cake should be baked in a funnel pan and covered 
while baking with a paper cap. (See "Hints on 
Cake Making"). 

GOLD CAKE. 

One cup sugar, y 2 CU P butter, y 2 cup milk, yolks 
of 5 eggs (well beaten), iy 2 CU P S (l ar g e ) flour, 2 
scant teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Measure ingredients same as in Gold Cake, using 
well-beaten whites of 5 eggs. Flavor with rosa 

CLEVELAND LOAF CAKE. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Three-fourths cup butter slightly warmed and 
beaten to a cream with 1 cup sugar. Separate 3 
eggs and beat whites to a stiff froth and set aside 
to be added to batter the last thing. Beat yolks 



For Servants, Use THE KECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



a 

CAKES. 151 

and add to the butter and sugar. Beat well; add 
gradually y 2 cup milk, beating until creamy. Now 
add 2 cups flour, into which has been sifted 2 level 
teaspoons baking powder and when smoothly mixed 
add flavoring and beaten whites of eggs. 

WATERMELON CAKE (white part). 

Two cups white sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 
31/2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 teaspoon 
soda or "2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 6 
eggs, well beaten. Flavoring. 

RED PART. 

One cup red sugar, y 2 cup butter, 1-3 cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, y 2 teaspoon 
soda, or \y 2 teaspoons baking powder, yolks of 6 
eggs, 1 cup Sultana raisins (whole). Bake in large 
round pan. Cut a piece of plain stiff paper 3 inches 
wide by 22 inches long. Grease both sides. Pin 
ends together. Place in center of pan. Turn red 
part inside circle made by paper. Turn white part 
outside circle. Remove paper carefully, using 
knife. Bake at once. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups 
flour, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup ground choco- 
late, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, y 2 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, 5 eggs. Cream the sugar and butter; add 
eggs well beaten. Put nuts, spices, baking powder, 
and chocolate into flour. Add to sugar, butter and 
eggs. Add potatoes last. 

POTATO CARAMEL CAKE. Mrs. J. Manuel. 

Two-thirds cup butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 
2 cups flour, 1 cup hot mashed potatoes, y 2 cup 
sweet milk, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
cup chocolate, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 teaspoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. Cream but- 
ter and sugar; then add yolks of eggs; then milk, 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 

m 



152 CAKES. 



potatoes, spices and chocolate. Sift baking powder 
into flour. Beat white of eggs stiff and add the 
nuts just before putting into pan, Bake 1 hour in 
an oven not too warm until the cake loosens from 
the edge of the pan. 

Frosting : % cup milk, 2 cups sugar, butter size 
of an egg. Boil until it strings, then beat. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. Mrs. C. Nicewonger. 

First part: (Custard), 1 cup grated chocolate, 
1/2 cup milk, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, Stir all together in a granite saucepan 
and cook slowly for a few minutes. Set aside to 
cool. 

Second part: 1 cup brown sugar, y 2 CU P butter, 
2 cups flour, y 2 cup milk, 2 eggs. Cream butter, 
sugar and yolks of eggs; add milk, sifted flour and 
whites of eggs beaten stiffly. To this add the 
custard part. Then stir in a level teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a little water. This makes three lay- 
ers, which should be put together with boiled frost- 
ing, or bake in 1 large loaf. 

DATE CAKE. L. M. Moore. 

One and a half cups sugar, 2-3 cup each of butter 
and milk, 3 cups of flour, 3 eggs well beaten, l 1 /^ 
teaspoon baking powder, 1 pound stoned dates, 
chopped. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two small cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 3 
cups flour, 1 cup cold water, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 2 cups chopped nuts. 

NUT CAKE. Mrs. O. M. Rowland. 

Three eggs well beaten, V/ 2 cups sugar, 1 scant 
cup butter, i/ 2 cup sweet milk, 2y 2 cups flour, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 cup walnuts chopped fine with flour 
sifted over them, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon each of lemon and nutmeg. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



CAKES. 153 

WALNUT CAKE. Mrs. J. C. Gage. 

One-half cup cornstarch, 1 cup flour, y 2 cup milk, 
y 2 cup melted butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder and 1 cup English walnuts, 
pounded quite fine. 

LOAF NUT CAKE. Mrs. S. J. Hardy. 

Two-thirds cup butter, 1 2-3 cups sugar, 2-3 
cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 2-3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 cup broken nuts. 

CRACKER AND NUT CAKE. 

Seven eggs well beaten, iy 2 cups sugar, y 2 cup 
butter, 1 tablespoon milk, 11/2 cups rolled crackers, 
1 cup grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Add 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup chopped raisins, 
1 cup citron. 

COFFEE CAKE. Mrs. S. A. Borland. 

Three scant cups flour, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup but- 
ter, y 2 cup molasses, 2 eggs, 1 cup fruit, y 2 cup cold 
coffee, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon allspice, 
y 2 teaspon cloves, 1 teaspoon soda, 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Two quarts of flour mixed into a soft dough with 
lukewarm milk; add 4 or 5 teaspoons Brewers' 
yeast and let it raise. Add % cup sugar, 3 eggs, 
piece of butter size of an egg and a little more flour; 
then 3 or 4 more spoons of yeast and a little salt. 
Let it raise again in the tin in which it is baked. 
Spread a little melted butter or cream over the top; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake. 

GOOD COFFEE CAKE. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

One small tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lard, 
14 cup sugar, % cup milk, 1 egg, and flour enough 
to make like cake (about 1 pint), and iy 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Put into shallow pan and sprinkle 
with sugar, cinnamon, chopped nuts (either wal- 
nuts or almonds), and small pieces of butter. Will 
bake in about 10 minutes. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



154 CAKES. 



VERY FIXE SPONGE CAKE. Oakland Cooking School. 

Six eggs, 1 cup sugar, tablespoon of lemon juice, 
grated rind of y 2 lemon, 1 cup flour. Beat yolks 
until thick; add lemon juice and grated rind. Beat 
thoroughly again; add sugar gradually and con- 
tinue beating. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; mix 
them in and when partly blended fold in flour. 
Bake in unbuttered funnel pan in slow oven from 
1 to li/4 hours. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. M. S. Thresher. 

Beat 6 eggs together thoroughly. Stir in 2 cups 
of granulated sugar and 2 cups of flour. Beat well. 
Add y 2 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon 
water; juice and grated rind of one large or two 
small lemons. Beat a long time and bake im- 
mediately in quick oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. J. U. Castle. 

Beat 2 cups sugar with 4 well-beaten eggs, y 2 
hour. Add 2y 2 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, pinch salt, and 1 cup boiling water. 
Flavor. Bake in moderate oven. 

THREE-LAYER SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. A. W. Davidson. 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff and added to beaten 
yolks. Add 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, y 2 tea- 
spoon salt. Beat well; add l 1 /^ cups flour before 
sifting, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, 2-3 cup 
boiling water added last. Nice with whipped 
cream filling. 

ORANGE SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. C. H. Yost. 

One cup powdered sugar, sifted 3 times, added 
to beaten yolks of 4 eggs. Beat long and hard. Add 
juice of 1 very large orange, 1 cup flour sifted 3 
times, 1 teaspoon baking powder; lastly whites 
beaten stiff. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. C. Yost. 

Six eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2y 2 cups flour, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup boiling 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



CAKES. 155 

water. Beat yolks and sugar together long and 
hard, using 1/4 of the water gradually to soften the 
sugar. Then add flour and baking powder after 
sifting 4 times, and remainder of water. Lastly the 
well beaten whites. Flavor with lemon. 

SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. J. H. Martin. 

Two teacups sugar, 4 eggs beaten together. Add 
2 teacups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Add 2-3 cup boiling water last. Flavor. Sift 
flour 3 times, and measure after sifting. 

ECONOMICAL LAYER CAKE. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

Separate 2 eggs. Beat the whites stiff, the yolks 
creamy. Add to yolks 1 cup sugar; beat well. (If 
too thick add a very little of the whites). Then 
add lump of softened butter size of an egg. Beat 
thoroughly; add gradually y 2 cup milk; then l 1 /^ 
cups flour into which has been sifted 1 rounded 
teaspoon baking powder. Lastly add the beaten 
whites, and i/o teaspoon vanilla. 3 layers. If 3 
eggs are used instead of 2, reserve the white of one 
for frosting. 

MARSHMALLOW LAYER CAKE. Mrs. J. L. Sanborn. 

Beat whites of 2 eggs very stiff and add to beaten 
yolks. Add 1 cup sugar, 1-3 cup soft Gutter; beat 
well; 1/2 CU P sweet milk, 1^ cups sifted flour and 
1/2 CU P unsweetened chocolate, 2 level teaspoons 
baking powder. Flavor. Bake in 3 layers. 

Filling : Cut into small pieces 20 marshmallows ; 
set over boiling water to soften. Beat these into 
a boiled icing, using 1 cup powdered sugar, 1-3 cup 
water, and white of 1 egg. When well mixed spread 
between layers. 

WHITE MARSHMALLOW FILLING. Mrs. Hohenshell. 

Two tablespoons gelatine dissolved in 8 table- 
spoons boiling water. While still hot pour in 1 
pound pulverized sugar ; whip half an hour. Flavor 
with vanilla. Immediately spread on cake which 
must be cold. 



Th Th!f ifTrue rthest ' Use onl y "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



156 CAKES. 



BANANA CAKE. Mrs. Arthur Wright. 

For the cake use any good recipe. Make 3 layers. 

Filling : 2 cups sugar, 4 tablespoons water. Boil 
until it threads. Just before taking from fire add 
a small pinch cream tartar. Have ready the whites 
of 2 eggs, beaten stiff. Pour syrup slowly into the 
eggs. Beat until stiff enough to spread on cake, 
which you have previously spread with bananas 
sliced in thin rounds. Work quickly to prevent 
frosting from hardening too fast. 

DELICATE LAYER CAKE. Mrs. Grupe. 

One y 2 cups butter, % cup whites of eggs, 1 
cup water, li/> cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder. Flavoring. Cream butter, 1 cup 
sugar and flour together; add water a little at a 
time, then beaten egg and the remainder of the 
flour; beat all about 5 minutes. 

Filling: 1 cup walnuts, 1 cup seeded raisins, y 2 
cup citron, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, juice of 1 
lemon. Cook all together 5 minutes. Before tak- 
ing from the fire stir in 1 teaspoon of arrow root 

APPLE CREAM CAKE. Mrs. R. L. Gardner. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1-3 cup butter, y 2 CU P sweet 
milk, 1 1-3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in 2 round pans. Grate 2 fine flavored apples, 
put in the beaten white of 1 egg and 2-3 cup sugar. 
Beat with egg beater till very stiff and spread be- 
tween and on top of cake. Should be made just 
before needed for use. 

Berries may be used instead of apples. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. Mrs. A. Truscott. 

Beat i/o cup butter and li/> cups sugar to a cream. 
Add 3 well-beaten eggs, 2-3 cup milk, 2y 2 cups flour 
and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor and bake 
in 3 layers. 

Filling: 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water. Boil 
until it threads from the spoon. Have ready the 
beaten white of 1 egg into which beat the boiled 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



g 

CAKES. 157 

sugar until thick and smooth. Add quickly y 2 cup 
chopped nuts and y 2 cup chopped and seeded 
raisins. Spread between layers. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. Mrs. C. H. Keagle. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Cream butter and sugar; add yolks well 
beaten ; when very light, add milk, flour and baking 
powder, lastly whites which have been beaten stiff. 
Divide into 4 parts. Have 2 parts white; to an- 
other part add 1 square chocolate and to the other 
add fruit coloring. Spread with boiled icing. 

COCOANUT CAKE. Mrs. E. J. Matteson. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup milk, iy 2 cups flour, 3 
well-beaten eggs and 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake in layers. Filling: Get a fresh 
cocoanut and grate, saving the milk from same and 
using it in cake instead of other milk, iy 2 cups 
sugar and */ cup water boiled together till stringy; 
then take from fire and add to the well-beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Beat until ready to spread. Add 
plenty of cocoanut. Spread between layers and on 
top of cake. 

STRAWBERRY LAYER CAKE. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

Two eggs, beat whites separately until stiff ; then 
add beaten yolks, 1 cup sugar, 1 thin slice ( about 
1-3 cup) butter. Beat all together and add y 2 cup 
sweet milk. Sift into this V/ 2 cups unsifted flour, 
containing 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Flavor. 
This makes 3 layers. 

Filling: Crush 1 cup ripe strawberries with 
spoon, add 1 cup sugar, and white of 1 egg not 
beaten. Put all into a can and beat with an egg 
beater until thick enough to spread. By using can 
spattering is prevented. 



Be e st L F?o U u r r y Use only "Spends Best Family." 



158 CAKES. 



SOUR CREAM ALMOND CAKE. Mrs. F. B. Hubbard. 

Two cups sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 4 eggs, y 2 CU P 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour into which sift 2y 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder; add. y 2 teaspoon extract of 
almond. Bake in layers. 

Pilling: Mix 1 cup thick sour cream with 1 
pound chopped and blanched almonds and sugar 
to taste. Beat yolks of 2 eggs very light and add 
to cream with 2 tablespoons cornstarch (cooked). 
Beat whites of eggs and sweeten to taste. Mix all 
thoroughly, flavor with vanilla and spread between 
layers after cake is cold. 

BROWN STONE CAKE. Mrs. Chas. D. Miller. 

Make a custard of 8 tablespoons grated chocolate, 
5 tablespoons granulated sugar, y 2 cup sweet milk. 
Boil until slightly thick, then cool. 

One y 2 cups brown sugar, y 2 cup butter. Beat 
both to a cream. Add 3 eggs, one at a time. Beat 
thoroughly; add 2 teaspoons baking powder. Pour 
in custard and stir well. Add V/2 cups flour, y 2 
cup sweet milk. Flavor with vanilla and bake in 
layers. 

Filling for same: 2 cups powdered sugar, 2-3 
cup sweet milk, butter size of an egg. Do not stir 
while cooking. Boil ten minutes and beat until 
cold. Spread between layers. 

RAILROAD CAKE. Mrs. W. B. Harrison. 

Three eggs, 2 cups flour, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter, y 2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der, flavoring. Bake in layers. 

COUNTRY CREAM CAKE. 

Break 2 eggs into a cup and fill the cup with 
cream. Beat all with 1 cup sugar. Add l 1 /^ cups 
flour into which sift l 1 /^ teaspoons baking powder. 
Pinch of salt. Bake slowly. 

EASILY MADE LAYER CAKE. Mrs. T. Carey. 

One cup (good size) sugar, 1 heaping cup flour, 
2 large teaspoons baking powder, all sifted to- 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



CAKES. 159 

gether. Break 2 eggs in same cup. Beat them 
thoroughly and pour in enough milk to fill. Pour 
this into flour and beat well together. Bake in 2 
layers. This is especially nice for whipped cream, 
as it has no butter in it. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Two cups white sugar and 2-3 cup butter beaten 
together. Add 3 well-beaten eggs, 3 cups flour 
after sifting 3 or 4 times. Sift with flour 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar and y 2 teaspoon soda or 2 
teaspoons baking powder. Add 1 cup milk. Take 
half the mixture, flavor with lemon and bake in 
tins like jelly cake. To other half of mixture add 
1 tablespoon molasses, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg and 1 cup of chopped 
raisins sprinkled with flour. Bake as above. Put 
cake together in alternate layers with jelly between. 

CREAM PUFFS. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

One coffee cup boiling water, y 2 CU P butter, 1 
heaping cup flour. Boil water, add butter, then 
stir in flour. Remove from stove and beat until 
smooth. When perfectly cold, stir into mixture 3 
eggs, one at a time. Drop from spoon into a but- 
tered pan. Bake about twenty minutes. Filling: 
1 cup sugar, 1 quart milk. When boiling stir into 
it 2 tablespoons flour stirred smooth into a little 
cold milk. Add 1 egg well beaten. Flavor to taste. 
Carefully insert knife in one side of each puff and 
fill. Whipped cream may be used for filling. 

SPICE CAKE. Mrs. M. Wright. 

One cup dark brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup sour milk, with a teaspoon of soda, 1 cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 4 cups flour, 1 cup stoned raisins, 1 cup 
citron cut fine, y 2 cup orange peel cut fine, 1 cup 
currants, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of ginger, little 
nutmeg, flavoring and salt. Bake slowly until the 
cake will not stick to a broom straw. Will keep 
like fruit cake. 



B= 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 



160 CAKES. 



, COCOA CAKE. Mrs. Wesley Minta. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2y 2 cups flour, small y 2 cup 
cocoa, mixed with flour. Stir in flour and whites 
of eggs last and beat well. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon yeast 
powder, 2 tablespoons cream, 4 eggs. Beat all to- 
gether a long time. Bake 20 minutes. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

Five eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar beaten 
well with the yolks, 1 cup sifted flour, 1 
soupspoon yeast powder. Add the beaten white;' 
last and flavor with l 1 /^ tablespoons "Crosse & 
Blackwell's" Coffee Extract 

PLAIN FRITTER BATTER. 

Two eggs beaten separately. Add to yolks 1 
small cup milk, 1 tablespoon sugar and pinch of 
salt; sift into a bowl V/ 2 cups flour and 1 teaspoon 
yeast powder. Add the yolks and milk to the 
flour gradually to make a smooth batter and add 
the beaten whites last. 

COCOANUT DROP CAKES. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, 14 cup melted butter, y 2 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 rounded teaspoon yeast 
powder, salt, 1 cup cocoanut, vanilla. 

RAISIN DROP CAKES. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, y cup melted butter, y 2 
cup cold coffee, 2 cups flour, 1 rounded teaspoon 
yeast powder, salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 
teaspoon cloves, y 2 cup chopped raisins. 

SEED CAKES. 

Two cups flour, 1-3 cup butter rubbed together, 
add 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons caraway seed and 
14 teaspoon salt; mix well and add y 2 cup milk, 
to which has been added 14 teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in 1 teaspoon hot water. Boll thin and 
bake in quick oven. Instead of caraway add y 2 
cup cocoanut or chopped nuts. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



m 

CAKES. 161 

FRUIT DROP CAKES. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, 14 cup melted butter, i/ 2 
cup cold coffee, 2 cups flour, 1 rounded teaspoon 
baking powder, salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 
teaspoon cloves, y 2 cup chopped raisins and y 2 
cup currants. 

APPLE CAKE (Xo Eggs). Mrs. Borland. 

One cup sugar, scanty 2 cup butter. Dissolve 1 
teaspoon soda in 1 cup fresh, warm apple sauce, 

1 teaspoon each cinnamon and allspice, y 2 tea- 
spoon cloves, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins may be 
added. Bake in a loaf. 

PORK CAKE (No Eggs). Mrs. Miller. 

Pour 1 pint boiling water over 3-4 Ib fat salt 
pork chopped or ground fine. When cool add 1 
cup molasses, 2 cups brown sugar, 6 cups flour, 

2 teaspoons soda, 1 tablespoon each cinnamon 
cloves and allspice and 1 grated nutmeg; add 2 
Ibs raisins, 1 Ib currants and y 2 Ib citron. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

CHECKERBOARD CAKE. 

Light part Whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, scant 
y 2 cup lard, y 2 cup milk, V/ 2 cups flour, 1 heaping 
teaspoon baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

Dark part Yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, scant 
y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup cold coffee, iy 2 cups flour, 2 
tablespoons chocolate, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, y 2 teaspoon cloves. Flavor with vanilla. 
Bake in layers. Drop the dough in rings, holding 
back of spoon toward center of tin to make rings 
uniform, alternating light and dark. 

SATIN ICING FOR SAME. 

Four tablespoons white sugar placed in pan of 
hot water until melted and hot. Beat with this the 
whites of 2 eggs until mixture is cool and smooth 
enough to spread. 

QUICK CAKE. 

One heaping large cup flour, 1 scant cup sugar, 1 
heaping teaspoon baking powder. Sift all together 



no theBlst L F X iour. Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



162 CAKES. 



twice. Break into same cup 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
melted butter, and then fill cup with milk. Pour 
into flour and sugar and stir enough to mix well 
and then bake in two layers. Also makes very good 
loaf cake. 

FILLING FOB SAME. 

One tablespoon melted butter, 2 tablespoons 
lukewarm coffee or boiled milk, 2 tablespoons choco- 
late. Add enough powdered sugar to make creamy. 
Little vanilla, 

MOCHA CAKE. 

Yolks and whites of 5 eggs beaten separately. 
Beat 1 cup sugar into yolks. Add 1 cup sifted flour, 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Add beaten whites 
last. Flavor with iy 2 teaspoons of coffee extract. 

MOCHA FILLING. 

Work the salt from 1-3 cup butter, then cream 
with 1 cup powdered sugar. Add the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs and y cup very strong coffee 
stirred in slowly to prevent curdling. 

Slice butter y 2 i ncn thick, cream 1 cup, powdered 
sugar with this until the sugar cannot be tasted. 
Add very gradually the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Then add very carefully y CU P strong coffee. 

MOCHA FROSTING. 

Boil together 1 cup sugar and 4 tablespoons 
strong coffee until it threads, then pour into the 
beaten whites of 1 egg. Beat until creamy and stiff 
enough to spread. 

PINOCHE CAKE (4 layers). Mrs. Morken. 

Two cups brown sugar, y 2 CU P butter, y 2 cup sour 
or sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda; if sour milk, 
21/2 teaspoons of baking powder; if sweet milk, y 2 
cup chocolate dissolved in y 2 cup hot water ; 3 cups 
flour measured after one sifting. Salt and vanilla. 

FILLING. 

Two cups brown sugar, y 2 cup sweet milk, 1 cup 
chopped nuts, butter size of an egg. Boil all to- 



Everyone Is Reading THE RECORD Why? 



CAKES. 163 

gether until when dropped into water it will make 
a soft ball. Beat until it begins to cream, then 
spread. If it hardens too fast set saucepan into hot 
water. 

CINNAMON DROPS. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup melted butter or cot- 
tolene, 2-3 cup boiling water, 1 level teaspoon 
soda in water, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, flour enough 
to make a batter which will drop from spoon. 

ECONOMICAL DROP CAKES. Mrs. Woodruff. 

One cup sour cream whipped light with 1 cup 
sugar, 1*4 cup flour sifted with a pinch of salt and 
soda, 2 heaping teaspoons corn starch, 1 rounded 
teaspoon baking powder. A few chopped dates or 
nuts may be added. Drop from a teaspoon into a 
well buttered tin and bake in a quick oven. 

SCOTCH FANCIES. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

One egg beaten light, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
melted buter, y 2 teaspoon salt, y teaspoon vanilla, 
114 cups uncooked rolled oats. Drop from teaspoon 
into buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

EGOLESS COOKIES. 

Two cups flour and 1-3 cup butter rubbed to- 
gether, add 1 cup sugar and y teaspoon salt. Mix 
well and add y 2 cup milk to which has been added 
14 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 teaspoon hot water. 
Add 2 teaspoons caraway seed, or y 2 cup cocoanut 
or chopped nuts. Roll thin and bake in quick oven. 

LAYER SPICE CAKE. Mrs. Hyatt. 

Beat slightly 1 whole egg and yolks of 2. Add 
34 cup sugar, % cup sour milk, 2 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon, cloves and mace, y 2 tea- 
spoon salt sifted with flour, 3 tablespoons melted 
butter and 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 table- 
spoons hot water. Bake in 3 layers. Filling : Beat 
whites of 2 eggs very stiff ; add 1-3 cup hot maple 
syrup and beat until cold. 



BLt L F*ou Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



164 CAKES. 



SPICED CAKES. Mrs. E. H. Fontecilla. 

One cup brawn sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 1 level 
teaspoon allspice, 1 tablespoon molasses, 1 level tea- 
spoon cloves, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 level teaspoon 
cinnamon, 34 cup grated chocolate, 4 eggs, 2y 2 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla, iy 2 teaspoons yeast pow- 
der, pinch of salt, 10 cents almonds, blanched and 
cut up. Mix all dry ingredients excepting flour; 
add eggs \vell beaten, then molasses and milk. 
Lastly flour and almonds. If batter be too stiff add 
a little milk. Bake in sheets. When done cut into 
small squares. Will keep a long time. 

SPICE CAKE. Mrs. Geneva Allen. 

One large cup sugar, 1 egg, % cup sour cream 
or scant y 2 cup butter. Beat thoroughly; add y 2 
cup sweet milk, 2 small cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder and a pinch of salt. Sift these to- 
gether; add 2 tablespoons chocolate, y 2 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon and allspice and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup milk, 
2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, all kinds of spices. 

SMALL SPICE CAKES. 

One cup molasses; add 1 teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in a cup of boiling water, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y teaspoon of 
mace, y 2 teaspoon of salt, 3 cups flour. Beat till 
smooth. Bake in gem pans in a moderate oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. Mrs. T. McCay. 

One small cup New Orleans molasses, 1 small 
cup butter and lard mixed. Let these come to a 
boil ; then mix 1 cup brown sugar, 1 egg, little salt, 
ginger and cinnamon. Use 1 even teaspoon soda, 
putting y 2 of it into the boiling syrup and the 
other y 2 teaspoon dissolve in 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Mix all together and use flour enough to roll. 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD, 



CAKES. 165 

GINGER SNAPS. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Boil together 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses 
and 1 cup shortening; part butter and part lard or 
drippings can be used. When cooled a little add 
pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon cold water, 1 teaspoon 
each of soda, cinnamon and ginger, and flour suf- 
ficient to roll. Koll very thin and cut in any desir- 
able shape with a sharp knife. Bake in a quick oven. 
This makes a large quantity but they can be kept a 
long time in a closed tin box If they become a trifle 
soft place in the oven for a few moments and they 
will be as good as when first baked. 

GINGER SNAPS. Mrs. Drury. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup molasses, 
1 tablespoon ginger (heaping), 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon (heaping). Cook on top of 
stove until mixed. Salt. Add V 2 cup sour milk 
and mix into the flour. Roll thin and bake brown. 

HARD GINGER BREAD. Mrs. Hall, San Francisco. 

One 1/2 cups molasses (boiled), 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup butter, 1 cup cold water, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
1 tablespoon ginger, 2 heaping teaspoon soda. Boil 
molasses and let get nearly cold, stir sugar and 
shortening together, cold water and molasses; mix 
all together, enough flour to roll. Bake in shallow 
pan. 

GINGER BREAD. Mrs. M. E. Sargent. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, y 2 cup sugar, 1 
egg, 1 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 table- 
spoon ginger, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, 2y 2 cups flour. 

GINGER BREAD (Fine). 

One-half cup butter, y 2 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon soda in a cup boiling water, 2y 2 
cups flour and 2 well-beaten eggs added just before 
baking. Add 1 teaspoon of all kinds of spices and 
1 cup chopped raisins. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



166 CAKES. 



GINGER BREAD Mrs. McGarey. 

One cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour 
cream, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoonful of cloves 
and allspice, 2 teaspoons ginger and cinnamon, 1 
tablespoon soda, 4 cups of flour. Add raisins if 
desired. 

GINGER CAKE. Mrs. W. B. Harrison. 

One cup each of butter, molasses, sugar and but- 
termilk, 3 cups flour, 1 tablespoon soda, 3 eggs, 1 
tablespoon ginger. 

DOUGHNUTS. Mrs. F. R. Clarke. 

Into 4 cups of flour sift 1 teaspoon each of soda, 
cream tartar and baking powder and large pinch 
of salt. Sift all 3 times. Sift 1 cup sugar and rub 
into it a piece of butter size of an almond. Add 2 
small eggs or 1 large one (the former is preferred), 
1 cup sour milk. A little cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Mix thoroughly and if there be not sufficient flour 
to roll add more, only be careful to have just 
enough to handle without sticking. Roll about 14 
an inch in thickness. Cut with doughnut or bis 
cuit cutter. If the latter, use thimble for the cen- 
ter. Roll and cut all before beginning to fry. Have 
ready a pan of hot lard or any substitute. Place 
doughnuts carefully in the lard and keep turning 
constantly as they begin to raise. Stand them in 
a deep pan in rows as they are cooked. Do not 
place one on top of another until they are cold. 
Keep in a covered tin. 

MRS. SARGENT'S DOUGHNUTS. 

Sift 1 quart of flour with 2 tablespoons yeast 
powder, a little salt and *4 grated nutmeg. Dis- 
solve 1 cup (large) sugar with 1 cup milk, add 2 
beaten eggs and mix into the flour. Add a piece 
of butter size of a walnut (melted) to the dough. 
Mix very soft. 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



CAKES. 167 

DOUGHNUTS. Mae Mclntire. 

Two eggs, 1 full cup sugar, butter size of walnut, 
pinch of salt, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flour enough 
to roll quite soft. Fry in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. Mrs. H. M. Baker. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar beaten well together; add 
1 cup sour milk with level teaspoon soda, 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, 14 teaspoon cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Enough flour to roll. Cut out and let stand 15 
minutes before frying. Fry in hot lard. 

SUGAR COOKIES. Mrs. Sampson. 

One cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 4 tablespoons 
milk, 11/2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs, vanilla, 
a little cinnamon or nutmeg and flour enough to 
roll. 

MACAROONS. Mrs. Roblin. 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 2 tablespoons chocolate, 1 cup nuts, chopped 
fine. Bake in a slow oven. 

KISSES. Mrs. Sampson. 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Add y 2 pound 
powdered sugar. Drop on greased tin. Wipe over 
with a wet knife. Bake quickly. 

HERMITS. Mrs. L. J. Locke. 

Two cups sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 
3 eggs, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in little warm water. All kinds of spices. 
Flour enough to roll. 

HONEY CAKES. Mrs. S. M. Hickinbotham. 

One cup honey, 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 6 bars of 
chocolate, 3 cups flour and 2 teaspoons baking 
powder; add spices and flavor to taste. Spread 
thinly in large pans and bake. Frost with boiled 
frosting and cut in little strips. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



168 CAKES. 



CHOCOLATE KISSES. Mrs. U. J. Struthers. 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 2-3 cup of pow- 
dered sugar, 3 sticks or 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 
cup chopped walnuts. Drop on oiled paper and 
bake in slow oven about 30 minutes. 

CITRON ROLLS. Mrs. P. W. Dohrmann. 

One pound sweet butter, 1 pound bar sugar, 
creamed. Add 8 well-beaten eggs, 1 pound citron 
and y 2 pound lemon peel cut fine, 2 tablespoons 
vanilla, flour enough to make soft dough for rolling, 
having added a knife point full of hartshorn. Put 
dough in cool place, using only a small quantity at 
a time. Roll into long strips. Cut into 2 or 3 
inch lengths. Bake in waxed pans, after making 
three cross wise impressions on each. Rub over 
with yolks of egg and bake in moderate oven. 

COOKIES. Mrs. M. S. Moore. 

Cream 1 cup sugar and y 2 cup butter; add 1 egg 
well beaten, 2 tablespoons cold water, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, and a pinch of nutmeg. Flour 
enough to roll thin. Bake in hot oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES. Mrs. D. M. Watson, Benicia. 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Flour enough to roll. 

FRUIT COOKIES. Mrs. H. M. Baker. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar mixed together; add 1/2 
cup shortening (14 lard, y butter), 1 cup chopped, 
seeded raisins, 2 tablespoons sour milk with a level 
teaspoon soda, y 2 teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves, mace and nutmeg. Flour enough to roll. 

DARK COOKIES. Jessie Foster. 

One cup butter, 4 cups dark brown sugar, 4 eggs, 
1 teaspoon soda, y 2 teaspoon nutmeg, flour enough 
to make stiff dough. Roll out thin and bake in 
moderate oven. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 

Grate the yolks of 1 dozen hard-boiled eggs, use 
1 cup blanched almonds (finely chopped), 1 pound 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



.CAKES. 169 

butter, 6 raw well-beaten eggs, grated rind of 1 
lemon, 1 wineglass brandy, pinch of hartshorn, 
then sweeten and flavor to taste and add sufficient 
flour to roll. Grease pans lightly and paint the 
tops of cookies with well-beaten yolks of eggs 
mixed with milk. Sprinkle with finely chopped 
almonds, sugar and cinnamon and bake. 

NUT COOKIES. Mrs. P. W. Dohrmann. 

Two tablespoons butter and 1 cup sugar 
creamed; 3 well-beaten eggs, 14 teaspoon salt, 3 
tablespoons milk, 2 cups finely chopped nuts( al- 
monds or peanuts are best), and flour enough to 
roll. 

ANISE SEED COOKIES. Mrs. P. W. Dohrmann. 

Nine eggs, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour, beaten 
for 1 hour. Add 3 tablespoons anise seed. Drop 
from a spoon on waxed tins; let set over night. 
Bake next day in a moderately heated oven. 

GERMAN CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

One dozen eggs, 12 tablespoons honey, 3 pounds 
sugar, 25 cents almonds chopped fine, 25 cents cit- 
ron chopped fine, 1 tablespoon hartshotrn, l 1 /^ 
tablespoon baking powder, 1 tablespoon each of 
cinnamon, allspice, cloves and nutmeg. Flour to 
make very stiff. Mix one week before baking. Then 
roll out thin and cut with a knife. 

GERMAN BUTTER XMAS COOKIES. 

One pound usalted butter and 1 pound bar 
sugar creamed together until white. Add 8 well- 
beaten yolks; beat 10 minutes; then beat in the 
8 well-beaten whites. Flavor with 1 tablespoon 
each of lemon and vanilla. Add a generous knife 
point of grated hartshorn which has been mixed 
in a saucer of flour. Then flour enough to make a 
soft dough to roll. Do not knead. Roll very thin 
and brush with milk and yolks of egg. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



170 CAKES. 



GRAHAM COOKIES. 

Two and one-half cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon soda, and 
sufficient graham flour to roll. May add caraway 
seed, nuts or raisins. 

BOCKS. 

Cream together iy 2 cups brown sugar and 1 cup 
butter. Add 3 eggs, 1 cup chopped walnuts, iy 2 
cups raisins (seeded), 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
level teaspoon soda dissolved in water and 2y 2 
cups of flour. Drop from a teaspoon and bake 
slowly. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 cup brown sugar, 3 
heaping tablespoons flour in which y^ teaspoon bak- 
ing pOAvder has been mixed, 1-3 teaspoon salt and 1 
cup of walnut meats slightly broken. Drop on but- 
tered tins and bake until brown. 

ICINGS AND FILLINGS. 

Boiled icings : 2 cups sugar, 1-3 cup water boiled 
until almost ready to thread from a spoon. Have 
ready the beaten white of one egg; stir slowly the 
boiling mixture into it. Flavor. Do not stir while 
boiling. If it hardens too quickly while spreading, 
keep putting the knife used into hot water. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING. Mrs. W. P. Steinbeck. 

Mash 2 baskets strawberries and sweeten to 
taste. Place between layers with whipped cream. 

APPLE AND LEMON FILLING. Mrs. F. W. Goodrum. 

Grate 3 tart apples and mix with 1 well-beaten 
egg, 1 cup sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Boil a few minutes until like cream. Cool and 
spread between layers. If apples are not tart add 
2 lemons. 

FRUIT FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE (Fine). 

Four tablespoons each of finely chopped citron 
and seeded raisins, i/ 2 cup blanched almonds, chop- 
ped fine, 14 pound chopped figs. Beat whites of 3 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



* 

CAKES. 171 

eggs very stiff ; add i/ 2 cup sugar. Mix all together. 
Spread between the cake and while hot so as to cook 
the eggs slightly. 

LEMON FILLING. Mrs. Geo. Conflict. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon, 1 egg, 1 
cup sugar. Stir all together and cook 3 minutes. 

FILLING FOB CAKE. 

Boil 1 cup sugar and y 2 cup milk for 5 minutes. 
Remove from fire and add small piece of butter, 1 
teaspoon vanilla and 2-3 teaspoon cream, tartar. 
Beat until creamy, then spread on cake. 

LEMON FILLING. Mrs. Sophia Wright. 

One cup Avhite sugar, 2-3 cup water, the juice and 
grated rind of 1 large lemon. Put these on to boil 
and then stir into it 1 well-beaten egg. Stir rapidly 
to prevent curdling and then add 1 level tablespoon 
cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water, and cook 
till it thickens. When cool spread on the layers. 

FIG FILLING. Mrs. Burt, San Francisco. 

One cup figs, 1 cup raisins. Beat the whites of 
3 eggs with y 2 cup powdered sugar. Add fig mix- 
ture. Beat well. Spread between layers. Ice top 
with 3 tablespoons powdered sugar and just 
enough lemon juice to' make paste. Chopped nuts 
may be used with the figs. 

FROSTING. 

Beat the white of 1 egg stiff. Add gradually 10 
teaspoons powdered sugar. Flavor, Put in a dry, 
cool place to harden. 

Pink coloring for cakes and icings may be made 
by dissolving the pink gelatine which conies in 
every box of Knox's gelatine in a little hot water. 
Use enough to give the required color. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL FILLING. 

Two cups sugar, 3 tablespoons chocolate, y 2 cup 
milk, lump butter size of walnut. Boil until it 
nearlv threads. Beat a little and spread on cake. 



Th Th!f ifTru f e rthest Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family Flour" 



172 CAKES. 



WHIPPED CREAM FOB LAYER CAKE. 

One pint thick cream well chilled, 1 tablespoon 
sugar; beat until it will spread; then gently stir in 
a little flavoring. Don't beat too long or it will 
turn to butter. The white of 1 egg well beaten and 
added last will make it lighter. 

Sliced bananas or strawberries may be used with 
the cream after it is whipped. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. Mrs. W. R. Thresher. 

(1). y 2 cup sugar, y 2 ground chocolate, y 2 
cup milk, small piece of butter and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Boil a few minutes, then stir until thick 
enough to spread. 

(2). 1 cup sugar, 5 tablespoons milk, 3 table- 
spoons chocolate. Flavor and boil 5 minutes. Stir 
until thick enough to spread. 

NUT FILLING. 

Put y 2 cup milk into a double boiler. When it 
boils, add 1 cup chopped walnuts, 2 eggs beaten 
light, and sugar to taste. 

ORANGE JELLY FILLING. 

Grate 2 large oranges and a portion of the rind 
of 1. Remove the seeds. Add 1 cup sugar and 2 
tablespoons water. Put into double boiler. Mix 
1 tablespoon cornstarch in a little water. Stir into 
the orange and cook until the raw taste of the 
starch is gone. Add the beaten whites of 2 eggs 
and powdered sugar. Reserve a little of the frost- 
ing for the top of cake. Stir the remainder into the 
orange when it is cold. 

CAKE WITH ONE EGG. 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons yeast powder. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



=35 



CHOCOLATE. 

Put into a granite pot set in boiling water, 1 
quart milk or a pint each of cream and milk; stir 
into it 3 heaping tablespoons grated chocolate 
mixed to a paste with hot milk. Boil 2 or 3 min- 
utes and serve at once. If not wanted so rich use 
part water. 

COFFEE. 

Moisten the required amount of coffee with a lit- 
tle cold water and add a well-beaten egg if desired. 
Add to this sufficient cold water for the quantity 
necessary for the meal. Allow it to come to a boil 
and remove at once to back of the stove until 
needed. 

COFFEE. 

One tablespoon coffee for each person mixed 
with the white of an egg; pour boiling water over 
it and boil a minute or two. Add a little cold 
water; then set back where it will keep very hot 
for about ten minutes. Serve with cream. 

TEA. 

As soon as water boils well, pour it over the tea; 
set back where it will keep hot, but not boil. Should 
be served in 5 or 6 minutes after being made, 

LEMONADE SYRUP. 

Moisten 1 pound of cube sugar with sufficient 
water to absorb it and boil to a clear syrup. Add 
the juice of 12 lemons and the grated rinds of 6, 
stirring it in well but do not let it boil. Bottle the 
syrup at once and cork when cold. Mix a little of 
the syrup with cold water when lemonade is de- 
sired. 

CURRANT PUNCH. 

Two pounds sugar and 1 quart water boiled for 
5 minutes. Skim and add juice of 2 lemons and 1 
orange. Strain and stir in a pint tumbler of tart 



only "Sperry's Best Family." 



174 BEVERAGES. 



currant jelly. Set aside until very cold. When 
ready to serve add chipped ice and 1 quart bottle 
Apollonaris water. This will fill about 15 small 
sherbet cups. 

SUBSTITUTE FOB CREAM IN COFFEE. 

Mrs. C. C. Keniston. 

Beat an egg to a froth ; add butter size of a wal- 
nut and turn the coffee on this gradually, as you 
turn from boiling pot into the one for the table. 

RICE WATER. 

Four tablespoons rice, 3 cups cold water. Cook 
y 2 hour, then season with salt. Strain and serve. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. Mrs. J. W. Abeel. 

One dozen lemons, i/> dozen oranges, juice from 
1 can pineapple, 6 small cups sugar. When the 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved in the juice, add as 
much water as the whole amount of juice; add the 
pineapple cut into cubes. Will fill 24 sherbert cups. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Boil together 2 pounds sugar and 1 pint of 
water until it "ropes." Remove from stove and add 
the juice of 6 lemons and 2 grated pineapples. 
Stand this aside over night. When ready to serve 
turn into a punch bowl. Add a block of ice and 
dilute the punch with either plain or Apollonaris 
water. 

OATMEAL DRINK. 

One-fourth pound of fine, fresh oatmeal, 6 ounces 
white sugar and V 2 lemon cut into small pieces. 
Mix with a little warm water; then pour over it 1 
gallon of boiling water, stirring all together 
thoroughly and use when cold. 

CHERRY PUNCH. Mrs. Al. Davidson. 

Boil 1 pint sugar and 2 quarts water for 10 min- 
utes. Set aside to cool. Add ^2 pi n t lemon juice, 
pint cherry juice,) drained from stemmed cherries, 
and a few drops of extract of almonds. Serve with 
a little cracked ice and a slice of lemon in each 
glass. 



This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



CANDIES 



ORANGE STICKS. 

Slice oranges in narrow strips. Cover with 
water and scald 3 times. Prepare a syrup by boil- 
ing together % cup water and 2 cups sugar. Place 
strips of orange in syrup and boil. Remove, place 
on a towel to absorb the syrup, then roll in granu- 
lated sugar to coat them. 

STUFFED DATES. Mrs. John Craig. 

Remove pits from 1 pound best quality of dates. 
Take part of them (the inferior looking ones) and 
chop to a pulp; mix with a quantity of walnuts or 
hickory nuts, chopped fine. Stuff each slitted date 
with this mixture and wrap in waxed paper. May 
be prepared some time before wanted. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. Mamie Patterson. 

Seven tablespoons chocolate, 6 tablespoons each 
of sugar and syrup, 3 tablespoons milk, butter size 
of walnut. Boil until it will form a soft ball when 
dropped into cold water. Turn into buttered pan 
to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CARAMELS. Gertrude Littlehale. 

One coffee cup each of rich cream, brown sugar 
and molasses, butter size of an egg. Boil 10 min- 
utes, then add 7 tablespoons grated chocolate and 
boil until done. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CARAMELS. 

One cup each of ground chocolate, New Orleans 
molasses and cream, 2 cups white sugar, butter 
size of an egg. Beat all together and boil, stirring 
continually, until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla just be- 
fore it is done. Pour out on buttered pans. When 
cool enough, cut into squares and wrap in paper. 



"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, Sweet, Clear. 

as -= = 

176 CANDIES. 

FRENCH CANDY. Mamie Dortmund. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon 
glucose, 1 cup boiling water. Stir until all is dis- 
solved; cover kettle and boil rapidly for 10 min- 
utes or until it forms a ball when dropped into cold 
water. Kemove from fire and place the dish in a 
dish of cold water for about 10 minutes, to cool. 
Then stir briskly until soft and whita Turn on a 
wet napkin and mold into small balls. To color 
pink, add while stirring the mixture, a little color- 
ing that comes with gelatine which has previously 
been dissolved. 

WHITE CANDY. 

Boil together 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup 
water and 1 tablespoon vinegar until it becomes 
brittle when dropped into cold water. Add 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Pour into buttered tins. When 
cool enough to handle, pull; then form into sticks 
and cut into sections with a sharp knife before it 
gets cold. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One 1/2 cups sugar covered with water and a 
pinch of cream tartar. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water. Flavor and 
turn it on a greased marble slab or thick brown 
paper. Stir constantly till creamy. Let stand for 
some time, covering with a damp cloth. Use as de- 
sired; either plain or as foundation for different 
kinds of French candies. 

SAUSAGE CREAMS. Mrs. Morehead. 

Use for foundation the "French Cream Candy." 
Knead in, i/ 2 cup each of finely chopped raisins and 
nuts, 1/2 CU P cocoanut Make into small loaves. Let 
stand 1 hour; then slice into small pieces. It is 
better to work in these ingredients while the cream 
is warm. 

THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



CANDIES. 177 



COCOANUT CREAMS. 

Knead into "French. Candy" some cocoanut, 
form; dip into white of egg, then into shredded 
cocoanut. 

DATE CREAMS. 

Use the small balls as directed in "French 
Candies," placing a seeded date around each ball. 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Prepare balls as directed above and press y 2 wal- 
nut to each side. 

PINEAPPLE CREAMS. 

Use sliced pineapple with cream balls. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Take the uncolored cream balls as prepared un- 
der "French Candy" and dip them into dissolved 
chocolate. Set aside to dry. Use a hat pin for the 
dipping. 

For cocoanut chocolate creams knead some 
cocoanut into the cream foundation before forming 
the balls; then dip. The chocolate should always 
be boiling hot when used. It may be kept so by 
placing over a boiling tea kettla 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

(1). 1 cup each of molasses and sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon butter. Stir while boiling and when done 
add y 2 teaspoon soda. 

(2). Boil 1 pint molasses and 1 cup sugar, 
stirring constantly. When partly cooked, add y 2 
teaspoon each of cream tartar and butter. Boil 
until it will harden in cold water. Just before 
turning out add 1 scant teaspoon soda. Nuts may 
be added. 

BUTTERNUT TAFFY. 

Two cups light brown sugar, y 2 cup butter and 
% cup thin cream boiled together until the mix- 
ture is elastic but not brittle. Do not stir. When 
done, add 1 teaspoon vanilla and a cup of butternut 
meats. 



?. Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



178 CANDIES. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. Mrs. E. B. Wright. 

(1). 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons water, piece of 
butter size of an egg. Boil without stirring until 
it will harden on a spoon. Pour out on buttered 
plates. 

(2.) 1 cup each of molasses, sugar and butter. 
Boil together until it will harden when cool. 

FUDGE. Gertrude Littlehale. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, y 2 
cup milk, 4 tablespoons chocolate, Boil until it 
forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
If it sugars, add more milk and cook over. Stir 
continually while boiling. Some add a pinch of 
salt. Turn into a buttered tin and cut into squares 
when slightly cool. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. Helen M. Wright. 

Three cups white sugar, 1 cup milk, piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, and 2 squares of unsweetened 
chocolate (or 2 heaping tablespoons of cocoa). Stir 
all together before placing on stove, then stir 
enough to prevent sticking while boiling. Boil 
about 10 minutes, then remove from fire and add a 
scant 1/2 teaspoon vanilla and stir briskly for about 
2 minutes; then pour into buttered tins to a depth 
of 1 inch. Cut into squares before it hardens. Be 
careful not to stir it too long or it will harden be- 
fore you can pour it out; or not too short a time, 
or it will not be creamy. 

COCOANUT FUDGE. 

The same as above, leaving out chocolate and 
adding about a cup of cocoanut when removing 
from the fire. 

TAFFY. 

* 

Two cups brown sugar, y 2 CU P butter, 4 table- 
spoons molasses, 2 tablespoons each of water and 
vinegar. Boil 20 minutes. 



Everyone Is Beading THE RECORD Why? 



CANDIES. 179 



COCOANUT TAFFY. Miss Gertie Meloche. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup each of molasses and milk, 
1 cup cocoanut moistened with part of the milk. 
Let milk and molasses come to a boil; add sugar; 
let boil, and when nearly done add the cocoanut. 
Try this as you would molasses candy. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Two cups granulated sugar, y 2 cup water. Let 
it boil hard for about 3 minutes; then add 2 tea- 
spoons essence of peppermint. Take from fire at 
once Stir hard until the mixture is white and 
creamy. Then drop on paraffine paper any size 
desired, turning the spoon to make them round. 

PINOCHE. Mabel Matteson. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup sweet milk or 
cream and piece of butter size of an egg. Boil, 
stirring continually, until it will form a soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Remove from 
stove; add 2 cups finely chopped walnuts and a tea- 
spoon vanilla. Beat briskly and when it begins to 
grow rough pour into buttered dishes to cool. Pea- 
nuts may be substituted for the walnuts. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch and dry the nuts. Place in a large drip- 
ping pan and pour on sufficient oil to moisten them. 
Place in the oven and stir often to prevent burn- 
ing; when all are of an even light brown color, re- 
move and sprinkle well with salt and place on 
brown paper until the oil is absorbed. Butter may 
be substituted for oil. 

POPCORN CRISPS. Miss Susie Sperry. 

One small pan popped corn. 

Syrup : 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons each of vine- 
gar, water and syrup and 1/2 tablespoon butter. 
Boil, but do not stir. When it hardens by drop- 
ping into cold water, pour the corn into the syrup 
and stir quickly. Pour out on a board and pound 
into mould. Cut into shape with biscuit cutter. 



Best L /iSS. Use only "Sperry's Best Famllj." 



INVALID FOODS 



INVALIDS' FOODS. 

Mash ripe grapes and strain. Allow S 1 /^ pounds 
of sugar to 1 gallon juice. Bottle like fruit, after 
thoroughly heating. 

BEEF EXTRACT OB TEA. 

Cut 1 pound of lean beef (get the round) into 
small pieces and put them into a bottle without 
adding any water. Cork the bottle and place in a 
kettle of cold water and let it boil for several 
hours. 

EGG NOGG. 

Beat yolk of 1 egg ; add pinch of salt and % tea- 
spoon sugar. Place in a glass and fill with rich 
milk, leaving room enough for the white of the egg, 
beaten very light and added last. Flavor to taste. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast slices of crusts of stale bread. Pour 
enough boiling water over them to cover. Cover 
the dish tightly and do not disturb until it is cold. 
Strain and sweeten to taste. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Cut into small pieces iy 2 pounds lean mutton. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly for 1 hour. 
Add salt and boil another hour. Strain and use 
plain or add rice, sago or pearl barley. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Beat until very light 1 egg with 1 tablespoon 
sugar. Stir in 3 tablespoons cold water and juice 
of 1 small lemon. Fill glass with pounded ice. 
Drink through a straw or glass tube. 

OMELETTE. 

Beat the yolk of 1 egg ; add pinch of salt and ^ 
cup milk. Mix and place in a small granite pan 
after latter has been heated and had small lump 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE KECORD. 



INVALID FOODS. 181 

of butter placed in it. Allow it to set on stove until 
omelette begins to set. Place the well-beaten white 
on top, and cover pan and allow it to steam a 
moment before serving. 

BEEF SANDWICH. 

Scrape fine 2 or 3 teaspoons of uncooked fresh 
beef; season well and spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 

COBNMEAL GRUEL. 

Two-thirds cup cornmeal stirred slowly into 1 
quart boiling water. Stir often to prevent lumping. 
Thin with rich milk. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

One cup oatmeal, 2 quarts water and ^ teaspoon 
salt. Boil slowly until reduced to 1 quart. Strain 
and thin with milk. 

INVALIDS' MILK SOUP. 

Brown in hot butter tiny squares of stale bread. 
Add 1 pint milk and pinch of salt. Beat the yolk 
of 1 egg and pour the hot soup slowly on the egg, 
stirring to prevent curdling. Cream may be added. 

TO STERILIZE MILK. 

Thoroughly cleanse a bottle with scalding water. 
Fill with cold milk and cook with cotton batting 
which has previously been in a hot oven for several 
minutes. Place bottle in a vessel of cold water, 
having it on a level with the milk, and boil y 2 an 
hour. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



MEDICAL 



Earache Dip in warm sweet oil a bit of cotton 
on which has been placed a pinch of black pepper, 
and insert it in the ear. Relief is sometimes ob- 
tained by blowing tobacco smoke into the ear and 
closing it with cotton. 

Irritation of Stomach or Slight Cough Sip a 
cup of very hot water V 2 hour before breakfast 
each day. 

How to Make a Mustard Plaster Mix to a paste 
mustard with warm lard or sweet oil. Place be- 
tween soft cloths to prevent blistering. Apply 
warm. 

Sprains One tablespoon each of turpentine and 
vinegar, and white of 1 egg. Shake all together 
thoroughly and apply speedily. 

Sore Throat Mix 1 teaspoon each of sulphur 
and glycerine, and y 2 glass of water. Gargle and 
take a small dose internally. 

Laxative Chop together 2 pounds black figs and 
3 ounces senna. Mix with 1 cup brown sugar. 
Dose: One-half teaspoonful at night. 

Nosebleed Make a wad of butchers' brown paper 
to fit under the upper lip, and press it firmly up- 
ward. 

Burns and Scalds Wet cotton in mixed linseed 
oil and lime water and apply at once. Keep the 
cotton dampened with same, A simple remedy is 
to take equal parts of flour and soda, mix and 
thoroughly wet. Change when necessary. 

To Stop Slight Hemorrhages Apply a, hand- 
ful of flour, or bind brown paper over the cut. 
When an artery is cut the blood spurts out in jerks. 
Place a tight bandage above the cut. When a vein 
is cut the blood flows in a steady stream and the 



For Servants, Use THE RECORD'S Help Wanted Page. 



g 

MEDICAL. 183 

bandage must be placed below the cut. For com- 
mon flesh wounds, take 1/2 CU P fresh milk and 2 tea- 
spoons vinegar and place over the fire until it 
curdles. Drain and place on the cut. Change often 
if necessary. Apply warm. 

Cholera Morbus One ouce each of gum cam- 
phor, gum myrrh, asafoetida, opium and cayenne. 
One quart best brandy. Make y this recipe, Dose : 
One teaspoonful every 15 minutes in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of water. Dose for diarrhea: The same once 
in 24 hours. 

Cough Kemedy Simmer 1 quart boiling water 
and 1 large cup dried hops for 2 hours. Strain; 
add juice of 3 lemons, 1 pound loaf sugar and 1% 
ounces gum arabic. Cook down to 1 pint. Dose: 
One tablespoonful when there is an inclination to 
cough. 

To Kemove Cinders From the Eye Place 1 or 2 
grains of flaxseed in the eye, thus forming a glut- 
inous matter to which any foreign substance will 
adhere. It can be easily washed out. 

Mosquito or Flea Bites These are rendered 
easily painless by rubbing the afflicted parts with 
a piece of soap moistened sufficiently to produce 
a lather and allowing it to dry. 

Hair Tonic Five cents worth bitter apple, 10 
cents worth sage, 1 tablespoon sulphur, 1 quart 
water. Boil a long time. Strain and bottle for use. 

Fainting Place the person in recumbent posi- 
tion with head lower than body. Loosen all cloth- 
and apply cold water to the face. 

Cure for Bee Sting Apply baking soda slightly 
dampened with water, or mix earth with water 
until it forms a paste. 

Sunstroke Wrap a cold wet cloth around the 
head. Spread salt thickly over another wet cloth 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



184 



MEDICAL. 



and apply to back of neck. Apply dry salt behind 
the ears. Put mustard plasters under the knees 
and on the soles of the feet. 

Insomnia Wet one end of a linen towel in cold 
water and apply to back of neck. Fold the dry end 
around the neck and over wet part. It soothes and 
quiets the nerves, 

To Hasten or Abort a Boil Bind a piece of 
bacon or salt pork on the affected part. 

Colds or Hoarseness Wring a flannel out of 
boiling water, sprinkle with turpentine and apply 
to chest. Repeat when flannel gets cold. Cover 
with dry flannel to prevent frequent repetition. 
Add the juice of 1 lemon to the beaten white of 1 
egg ; also sugar. Dose : One teaspoonful. 




THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper/ 



Hints for the Housewife 



A piece of pointed whalebone or fine pine wood 
is nice to clean out corners. 

An easy way to wash windows. Use two wash- 
cloths and a large one free from lint for drying. 
Wet one of the cloths with soap and water. 
Rub this over the window to moisten the dirt. 
Dampen the second cloth and pour on it a little coal 
oil. Go over the window with this. Then polish 
briskly with the dry cloth. Do not have either 
cloth so wet that it will drip. 

To prevent odor while cooking cabbage or onions, 
set a cup of vinegar on stove and let it boil. 

Glass bottles can be cut off below the neck and 
used for jelly glasses. Tie a cord around the bot- 
tle at the desired place, wet cord with turpentine 
or coal oil and set on fire. Try it. 

An oyster shell placed in the tea-kettle will at- 
tract the stony particles to itself, thus preventing 
the formation of a crust on inside of kettle. 

When your kerosene lamps give a bad light, and 
smoke, or smell, boil the burners half an hour with 
a tablespoonful of soda in the water. Never fill 
your lamps to the brim, as the oil rises and causes a 
disagreeable odor. 

Use Spanish bark for washing wool goods. Shake 
goods thoroughly and iron when partially dry. 

Lard or drippings are clarified by frying slices 
of raw potato in them. Strain through a cloth. 

Water should just begin to boil when used for 
cooking. Otherwise it is insipid. 

When crackers become soft place them in a hot 
oven a few moments to freshen them. 

If a pinch of soda be put into an omelette it will 
retain its shape when put upon the table. 

Instead of opening the door if the oven be too 
hot, place a small dish of cold water in the oven. 



If it isn't "Sperry's Flour" it isn't the Best Flour. 



186 



HINTS FOR THE HOUSEWIFE. 



Soap rubbed on the hinges of a door will prevent 
creaking. 

A tablespoon of milk put into the water in which 
old potatoes are cooked will prevent their turning 
a dark color. 

After a stove has been thoroughly polished rub 
it every morning with an old paper and it will look 
well for a long time. 

Make starch with soapy water and the irons will 
not stick and the linen will have a better gloss. 

Use hard soap for closing mouse holes. 



Leaders of Their Class 



AYENOE HILLC 




ASK YOUR GROCER 



THE DAILY RECORD'S Circulation IS the Largest. 



= 



MISCELLANEOUS 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

1 quart of flour 1 pound 

1 pint of liquor 1 pound 

1 pint chopped meat (packed) 1 pound 

2 coffee cups butter 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2 heaping cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

4 teaspoonf uls 1 tablespoonful 

8 teaspoonf uls or 2 tablespoonfuls 1 ounce 

The ordinary measuring cup holds y 2 pint 

JAPANESE CLEANING CREAM. 

Shave 3 ounces white Castile soap very fine. Boil 
in 1 quart soft water until dissolved, then add 3 
quarts more of water. Cool and add 3 ounces each 
of ammonia, ether and alcohol and 2 ounces gly- 
cerine. Shake well together and it is ready for use. 
Excellent for removing grease spots from clothes, 
carpets, etc. 

CHLOROFORM FOR CLEANING. 

Chloroform will remove grease spots from wool. 

WASHING FLUID. 

One ten-cent can Gillet's lye, 10 cents worth pure 
ammonia, 5 cents worth Salts of Tartar. Dissolve 
the lye in a small quantity of cold water. Add 4 
quarts boiling water. Cover tightly and let it stand 
until cold. Then add ammonia and Salts of Tar- 
tar. Bottle and cork tightly. Soak the clothes over 
night. Wring out and place in boiler. Cover with 
water and add % CU P f fluid and plenty of soap. 
Boil well. Rub out of suds, rinse and blue. 

TO WASH FLANNELS WITHOUT SHRINKING. 

Make a warm suds of borax soap and water. Rub 
with the hands. Avoid using rub-board as much 



ESTABLISHED 1849 TELEPHONE 1 

PURE FOODS 

Help to Keep Us Well 

PURE DRUGS 

Make Us Well When We Are Sick 



"OUR MOTTO" 

Any article which we sell that does not prove exactly 
as represented, will be bought back at full retail price. 
This insures you a square deal. We keep everything 
in the drug line. 

PRICES RIGHT GOODS RIGHT 

Kodaks, Supplies and Finishing Work 



THE HOLDEN DRUG CO. 

Corner Main and El Dorado Streets STOCKTON, CAL. 

Good Paste in Cooking is a good thing but 
not in 

DIAMONDS 

Everything GOOD in JEWELRY at this 

store 

FRIEDBERQER'S 

IMMACULATE LINEN 

Is the mark of the gentlemen. We keep your linen as 
it should be. We do the work quickly and as well as 
modern machinery, pure soap and water and workmen 
can do it. 




1235 E. Lindsay Street. 



Thfl Th!f ifT?ue. rthest - Use only "Sperry's Best Family Flour' 



MISCELLANEOUS. 189 



as possible. Kinse in warm water in which a little 
soap is used. Do not use hot or cold water. Do 
not wring, but squeeze lengthwise through the 
hands. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

One cup vinegar, 1 cup turpentine, 1 cup alcohol, 
1 cup sweet oil. Shake well and apply with a soft 
brush. 

TO CLEAN WOODWORK. 

Put a few drops of coal oil into warm water and 
use a soft cloth. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW. 

Soak the spots in sour milk mixed with salt and 
lay article in the sun. Repeat until stains are re- 
moved. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST. 

Kub the spots with lemon juice mixed with salt. 

HARD SOAP. 

Melt 6 pounds clarified grease; add 1 heaping 
tablespoon ammonia and 10 cents worth lye or pot- 
ash. Stir 10 minutes and place in moulds. 

TO CLEAN ZINC. 

Rub it with a cotton cloth dipped in coal oil, and 
polish with a dry cloth. 

TO REMOVE SEALING WAX FROM FRUIT CANS. 

Rub the ware briskly with a damp cloth dipped 
into baking soda. 

TO CLEAN TIN OR GRANITE WARE. 

Pour boiling water over them or use hot stove lid. 

TO DRAW THREADS FOR HEMSTITCHING. 

Brush the linen over with a good lather made of 
soap and water. Pull the threads after the linen 
is dry. 



THE DAILY RECORD Is a Staunch "Woman's Paper." 



*??& ^Is^Piour 7 Use onl J "Sperry's Best Family." 



GC 

d 
+-> 
O 

O 



O) 



CO 

O 

^ 
CO 



w 



190 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water over them and boil a moment. 
Drain and toss them into cold water. The skins 
will then slip off easily. Brown in the oven and 
moisten with butter. 

TO REMOVE INK STAINS. 

Soak the goods in milk until the spots disappear, 
or dip the spots into melted tallow and in washing 
out the tallow the ink will come with it. 




This Cook Book Was Printed by THE RECORD. 



^j> <rr 



i 











LX**4 ^ 



1!2 dkx i; 

**-*^A I <>^A 4T-<3V 




"Sperry's Best Family Flour." Pure, 8weet, Clear. 




W 



THE RECORD Is the Paper for Your Children. 



Use only "Sperry's Best Family." 



Everyone Is Beading THE RECORD Why? 



o,?e 'Sj.fSSK. Use on 'y "Sperry's Best Family." 



Musical, Literary Programs Printed by THE RECORD. 



f 



