

IsafaJ 




A r 



Meat Substitutes 



By ISABEL 
GOODHUE 



NEW YORK 

New York Magazine of Mysteries 

649 West Forty-third Street 

MCMVII 



Corvright 1907 
By THE NEW YORK MAGAZINE OF MYSTERIES 



WHAT DOES COOKERY 

MEAN? e o e e o 

IT MEANS KNOWLEDGE OF ALL HERBS 
AND FRUITS AND BALMS AND SPICES, 
AND OF ALL THAT IS HEALING 'AND 
SWEET IN GROVES, AND SAVORY IN 
MEAT. IT MEANS CAREFULNESS AND 
INVENTIVENESS, WATCHFULNESS, 
WILLINGNESS, AND READINESS OF 
APPLIANCES. IT MEANS THE ECONO' 
MY OF YOUR GREAT- GRANDMOTHER 
AND THE SCIENCE OF MODERN 
CHEMISTRY, AND FRENCH ART, AND 
ARABIAN HOSPITALITY. IT MEANS, IN 
FINE, THAT YOU ARE TO SEE IMPER- 
ATIVELY THAT EVERYONE HAS 
SOMETHING NICE TO EAT. 

JOHN RUSKIN 



-CO. 



CONTENTS 

FOREWORD .... 7 

FOOD VALUES .... 9 

ON MEAT-EATING . . . . 11 

"FORTY CHEWS TO A MOUTHFUL" . 15 

BAKED DISHES .... 19 

LUNCHEON AND BREAKFAST DISHES 35 
SAUCES FOK CROQUETTES, NUT LOAF, 

ETC 49 

FRUITED CEREALS ... 55 

SOUPS .... 61 

SALADS 73 

SANDWICHES AND COLD DRINKS . 85 

MENUS 97 

INDEX 110 






FOREWORD 

1HIS little book is not addressed 
to the extremist on the food 
question, but is written for 
families who wish to discon^ 
tinue, either entirely or partially, the use 
of flesh food, but want to substitute 
dishes which will furnish the same food 
value, and will be palatable in the same 
hearty and satisfying way. 

Q[ It does not aim to present recipes that 
are models of economical ingenuity, but 
those that neither savor of extravagance 
nor of extreme frugality. They are all 
recipes that have been tried and liked 
by both meat'eaters and vegetarians. 

Q[ So many of the dishes represented here 
have been originated and prepared in 
atmospheres of enthusiasm and good 
cheer, that you will probably find all of 
those resulting from the use of these 
recipes to be decidedly flavored with 
optimism. 



The food problem means a study of balanced 
rations and proportions, as well as the cost and 
nutritive value of foods. It means the varying 
of these proportions to suit the needs of the old 
the young, the laborer, and the brain worker. 

Horace Fletcher. . 



FOOD VALUES 

NUTS, peas, beans, lentils, eggs, cheese 
and milk are rich in the nitrogenous 
properties considered so valuable in meat, 
but good judgment must be used in the 
selections made for each meal so that 
the supply of this element may not be 
excessive. 

Q[ Sometimes a housekeeper who is not 
possessed of a very versatile imagination 
forms the habit of repeating a certain kind 
of food at the same meal. This is often 
a severe tax upon the digestion and is 
usually unattractive to the taste. For 
instance, a nut chowder, a nut loaf and 
nuts in the salad are in every way 
undesirable on the same menu. 

Q[ A well-balanced meal should present 
a dish rich in nitrates, a starchy food, 
succulent vegetables or fruits, and a little 
butter, cream or oil. 



The glory of the kitchen 1 that holds cooking 
A trade from Adam, quotes his broths and salads, 
And swears he is not dead yet but translated 
In some immortal crust, the paste of almonds. 

Ben Jonson. 



Though we eat little flesh and drink 

no wine 
Let as be merry. 

Shelley. 



ON MEAT EATING 

IT IS believed that we absorb impurities more 
readily from animal than from vegetable food, 
even when the meat eaten is in its best condition, 
and certainly no one doubts the unwholesomeness of 
the diseased and chemically embalmed meats that are 
now put upon the market. 

Q Athletes who train on a vegetarian diet (and their 
number is increasing) are notably successful in contests 
demanding strength and endurance. 

Q Professor Irving Fisher, of Yale, has completed tests 
by which he finds that a vegetable diet is more con- 
ducive to endurance than a diet including flesh food. 

Q Fortynine persons were examined, among whom 
were students, physicians, nurses and college instructors. 

Q Professor Fisher says: "The result indicates that 
non'flesh eaters have far greater endurance than those 
accustomed to the ordinary American diet." 

Q Vegetarians of some years' standing are seldom, if 
ever, found among patients who are troubled with 
blood diseases. 

(J Students of the subject find that, as a class, great 
meat eaters are more antagonistic, irritable and nervous 
than nonTneat eaters, and are more given to using 
stimulants. 



11 




12 



We mast eat to live, not live to eat. 
-Folding. 



(J In the minds of many people the debasing effect 
upon the thousands of men engaged in the business of 
slaughtering animals for food forms one of the strongest 
reasons for seeking to eliminate flesh food from their 
diet 

(J The too free use of dead flesh as a diet clouds the 

mind and dulls the spiritual perceptions, brutalizing the 

finer sensibilities of the soul, while stimulating the 
animal propensities. 

<J Fruits, grains, nuts and vegetables form the purest 
and most ideally perfect foods for man. The very 
thought of the sunshine they have stored up in their 
growth is a stimulus to their digestion, and these pro' 
ducts of the earth contain all the elements that go to 
make up blood, bone, muscle and nerves in a form at 
once agreeable and easily digested by the human 
stomach 

Q[ The question of expense is one to be considered also. 
It has been demonstrated by one of our leading food 
experts that ten cents' worth of peanuts contain more 
than twice the protein and six times the amount of 
energy that is to be found in a porterhouse steak. 
Value for value, then, it will be seen that a well 
selected vegetable diet is not only far cheaper than 
meat but contains more of the available elements 
needed to supply the human machine in order that it 
may perform its work with the least possible amount 
of waste. 



13 




14 



Let us often have as dinner guests, 
"Mirth that wrinkled Care derides, 
And Laughter holding both his 
sides." 



"FORTY CHEWS TO A 
MOUTHFUL" 

THE advocates of what is known as "Fletcherism" 
have for a motto "Forty chews to a mouthful," 
and they claim that a really thorough mastication 
of food will regulate all digestive disturbances and will 
restore to one a normal appetite. Horace Fletcher was 
the first to advocate the particular method in question, 
though Gladstone before him preached that every morsel 
of food should have thirty 'two chews before it was 
swallowed. Mr. Fletcher was a great traveler and un* 
derwent many adventures in his efforts to make a fortune. 
When he finally found himself with wealth and leisure 
to indulge his cultivated tastes, he was unable to enjoy 
anything because his health was gone, and he was 
obese and scant of breath. From several sources he 
received the inspiration which led to his method of 
cure. His principles are based on three gernvthoughts 
the value of abstinence from food until a true appe- 
tite has been earned, thorough mastication and the ban" 
ishment of anger and worry. 

Q Mr. Fletcher pushed the importance of mastication to 
its limits, and taught even those who thought that they 
knew its importance, something new in connection 
with the mechanism of the tongue as applied to chew 
ing food, and he also emphasized as well the necessity 
for the thorough mixing of saliva with all food as the 
first step in the process of healthy digestion. Not only 
should solids be so thoroughly chewed that there will 

15 



"The strength of the nation is in the 
hands of tts cooks." 



be no forced swallowing, or any strained motion of the 
muscles of the back of the tongue or throat in swal' 
lowing, but all liquids having taste, and therefore hav- 
ing in them something to be digested, should be treated 
to a preparatory process in the mouth before being 
swallowed. That means that every liquid, except pure 
water, should be sipped and tasted in the mouth long 
enough to give it a chance to be well mixed with the 
saliva. 

(J By following out these principles the appetite will 
soon become a true index to the needs of the body for 
food, and it will demand nothing more after the craving 
for food is satisfied. In addition, a normal appetite, 
when once it is attained, will demand only what the 
system requires, and there will be a feeling of repulsion 
towards what is undesirable. The system attaches the 
utmost importance to the mechanical action implied in 
the forty chews necessary for the thorough chemical 
preparation of the food liquid or solid in order to 
make it fit for digestion, which is, after all, the most vital 
process of the physical system, for on it depend health 
of body and of mind alike. 



17 



It is hard to provide so simple and clean a 
diet as will not offend the imagination. * * * It 
may be vain to ask why the imagination will not 
be reconciled to flesh and fat. 1 am satisfied that 
it is not * * and he will be regarded as a 
benefactor of his race who shall teach man to con- 
fine himself to a more innocent and wholesome 
diet 

Thcreau. 



BAKED DISHES 




There is nothing so hygienic 
as love 



PREPARING NUTS 

A SMALL meat grinder, after it has been 
** thoroughly cleansed, may be kept for 
grinding nuts, or a nut and vegetable grinder 
may be obtained for a moderate price. If 
you obtain almonds, English walnuts, filberts, 
pecans, Brazil and pistachio nuts, and put 
each kind, after it is ground, into a pint 
fruit jar, label it, and screw the cover on, 
you will have a most convenient store to 
call upon when preparing nut dishes ; and 
you can easily mix the various nuts when 
you wish to do so. 

Q It is best to grind the nuts moderately fine 
but not to a meal. If you wish a meal, as 
for soups, you can take some of the nuts 
out and grind them finer for the purpose. 

Q Nearly all of the nut recipes that have 
come to the author's notice result in dishes 
of a new flavor but which seldom have a 
recognizable nut taste. To a lover of nuts 
this is a disappointment. The use of both 
ground nuts and half nut meats, or of 
ground nuts and broken meats, is a method 
with happier results in this regard than that 
of using nut meal alone or manufactured 
nut combinations. 

21 



May the cook send in vibrations of 
sweetness and good cheer with 
every dish she prepares 



NUT LOAF 

loaf should be baked in a medium^ 
sized bread tin. The tin should be 
well greased, and, when done, a knife 
should be passed around the loaf, loosening 
the edges. A platter should then be placed 
over the top of the tin, and tin and platter 
firmly held together and reversed. When 
the tin is removed the loaf, nicely browned, 
will rest in the center of the platter. A 
sauce should be poured around the loaf 
before serving. Cold nut loaf is very 
good when sliced with a sharp knife and 
served the same as veal loaf. Garnish 
with parsley. 

q Nut Loaf No. 1 



Three cups cracker crumbs, fine ; three and one'half 
cups of milk and water ; two eggs, well beaten ; one 
cup of nut meats ; three' fourths cup mixed ground nuts. 
Salt to taste. 

Q Nut Loaf No. 2 

Two cups boiled rice ; one-half pint of milk ; two eggs, 
well beaten ; one and one^half cups ground Brazil 
nuts : one-half cup ground unroasted peanuts ; one-half 
cup English walnut meats. 

23 




24 



The Tragic Muse should never be 
invited into the dining room 



Nut Loaf No. 3 

Three cups mashed or cold boiled potatoes very finely 
chopped ; two and one-half cups milk ; two eggs, well 
beaten ; one cup English walnut meats ; one-half cup 
mixed ground nuts; one teaspoonful peanut butter, 
diluted in a little of the milk; one-half small onion, 
finely minced. Salt. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

TN each of the three following recipes 
* cut out the cores of the tomatoes used. 
Grease a flat tin and place the tomatoes in 
it, putting around them the stuffing that 
remains after filling the tomatoes, forming 
a nest for each one. Bake until they are 
tender and slightly browned. Upon re^ 
moving from the oven butter the top and 
sides of each tomato. 
Q Tomatoes with Bean Stuffing 

Six large ripe tomatoes; two large cupfuls of boiled 
navy beans ; one medium-sized onion, minced fine ; one 
heaping tablespoonful of butter. Mix the beans, onion 
and butter together and season with salt and pepper. 

Q Tomatoes with Pea Stuffing 

Six large tomatoes ; two large cupfuls of boiled yellow 
split peas ; one green sweet pepper, minced. Be careful 

25 



And now and then your men of wit 
Will condescend to take a bit. 

Swift. 



to remove every seed from the pepper. Mix the peas 
and pepper together, and season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 

Q Tomatoes with Nut Stuffing 

Six tomatoes ; three cupfuls of soaked bread crumbs ; 
one and one-half heaping teaspoonfuls of peanut butter ; 
one-half cup ground pecan nuts. Dissolve the nut butter 
in a little water and mix the bread crumbs, nut butter 
and nuts together; a very little minced onion may be 
added. Season with salt and pepper. Place in each 
tomato, with the stuffing, one-half of a nut meat, and a 
nut meat should also crown the mound of stuffing on the 
top of each tomato. 

Q Tomatoes Stuffed with Cheese 

One cup cracker crumbs moistened with water ; one* 
half cup grated cheese: one tablespoonful of butter; 
salt and pepper Mix the cracker and cheese together, 
add the butter and season. Stuff the tomatoes with the 
mixture but do not place any around the tomatoes in 
the pan. 

Q Baked Peppers 

Carefully remove all the seeds from green, sweet 
peppers ; prepare either of the first three above fillings, 
as for tomatoes. Fill the peppers and bake. 

Q Baked Hominy and Cheese 

After washing a cupful of hominy in three waters, pour 
upon it a pint and a half of boiling water, and boil for 
twenty minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
pint of milk, one egg, and a cupful of grated cheese. 
Bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

27 



Muse, sing the man that did to Paris 

go, 
That he might taste their soup, and 

mushrooms know. 

-W. King. 



Q Baked Mushroom^. 

Select nice, large mushrooms, peel and remove the 
stems; put them in a porcelain saucepan with a table' 
spoonful of butter and set on the back of the stove until 
all the mushroom liquor is drawn out, then add a slight 
seasoning of pepper and salt and put the saucepan over 
the fire, stirring now and then, until the mushrooms are 
almost done; cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
slices of toast ; put the mushrooms over these, adding 
to the liquor an equal quantity of sweet cream ; cover 
the top with coarse bread crumbs and bits of butter and 
bake in the oven until lightly browned. 

Q Mushrooms are substantial food, and the wild sorts 
(when one learns to know them) as well as the culti-* 
vated varieties, should appear more frequently upon the 
table as part of the regular bill of fare when they can 
be secured. 



Stuffed Apples 



Scoop out a good core from cooking apples and fill 
with equal parts of whole wheat, or plain bread crumbs, 
and chopped mushrooms ; season with tomato catsup, or 
other prepared sauce, or fresh chopped parsley, etc.; 
place in a baking dish, dotting the apples with butter and 
adding a little water to the dish. Bake until the apples 
are done. Instead of mushrooms, the apples may be 
stuffed with chopped peanuts mixed with whole wheat 
bread crumbs, adding a little butter and seasoning. 
Another way is to use boiled chestnuts mashed and 
seasoned for stuffing the apples. 



29 




Sma/Z cheer and great welcome 
makes a merry feast. 

Shakespeare. 



Q Cheese Custard 

Take a round loaf of baker's bread ; cut in slices about 
one'half inch thick; remove any hard or very brown 
crust and butter well. Line the sides of a deep buttered 
baking dish with six of the slices and lay the seventh in 
the bottom. Grate fine one-fourth pound of good cheese. 
Melt a small piece of butter and stir into one and one' 
half pints of good milk ; dissolve two tablespoonfuls of 
flour in a gill of cold milk, add it to the boiled milk 
and let it cool. Add the cheese, salt, pepper and four 
well beaten eggs to the milk, and pour it into the baking' 
dish. The cheese custard should at least reach the top 
of the upright slices of bread. Bake in a hot oven as 
you would any bakad custard. 

Q Baked Rice and Cheese 

Three cups boiled rice; three cups milk; one'fourth 
pound grated cheese; three well beaten eggs; one 
dessertspoonful of butter ; salt. Melt the butter and stir 
lightly into the rice and milk; add the eggs, beat in 
lightly, and bake in a hot oven one'half hour. 

Q Baked Peas 



Soak yellow split peas over night; boil until tender, and 
then take two and one-haif cupfuls of boiled peas ; one' 
half cupful of cracker crumbs; one pint of miik; one egg; 
two'thirds cupful of finely minced celery, or one tea' 
spoonful of celery salt ; one dessertspoonful butter , salt 
to taste. Bake thirty'five minutes. 

31 



"Just as in nature thy proportions be, 
As full of concord their variety." 



C[ Baked Beans 

Baked macaroni and cheese makes a good substitute for 
the meat dish, as do also baked beans. In baking beans 
without pork, place a good-sized onion in the bottom of 
the bean pot The result is not a perceptible onion 
flavor, but a decided enriching of the beans. A goodly 
quantity of butter should be added to beans baked with' 
out meat. A little while before they are done ; or, 
when the beans having the onion in the bean pot are 
about half done, stir through them a nut cream, made by 
dissolving one heaping teaspoonful of peanut butter in a 
little water, and add ordinary butter as well. Do not 
use enough nut butter to allow a peanut flavor to pre* 
vail, but enough to mellow and enrich the beans. 

Q Ked Kidney Beans 

Red kidney beans are especially good baked. Indeed, 
they are so highly esteemed in Boston, the Mecca of 
the baked-bean lover, that one is obliged to pay more 
for them there at the cafes and restaurants than for 
ordinary kinds. The canned red kidney beans are 
almost as good as the fresh ones, and if you pour off 
the liquor, rinse the beans, mash a few of them and 
add cream, you need not fear them, baked or unbaked, 
because they were canned, and they will form a most 
palatable addition to your bill of fare. 



33 



There was once a man who, when the dew was on 
his strawberry vines, and the wren that had her nesi 
near his bedroom window had begun her morning 
thanks, strode out into his little garden. Without losing 
any of the wren's music, he plucked him a bunch of 
radishes, cut heads of tender lettuce, picked a pan of 
strawberries, added a pitcher of milk and a plate of 
crackers or bread, and breakfast was ready. So the 
vegetable habit simplifies life. 

Good Health. 



LUNCHEON 
AND BREAKFAST 




Enough is ax good as abundance. 
Gaelic Proverb. 



qNut Hash 

One tablespoonful of peanut or mixed nut butter, made 
into a smooth cream with water; three- quarters of a 
cupful of ground nuts; two cupfuls of finely chopped 
potatoes. Mix the nut butter through the potatoes; add 
the ground nuts, and a little milk or water to moisten. 
Salt to taste: add a little minced onion if desired. Put 
butter in a hot frying pan, add the mixture of potatoes 
and nuts, and brown as in making corned'beef hash. 
When you think a brown crust has formed over the bot' 
torn of the hash, place a plate over the top and invert 
the frying pan and plate, turning out as if it were an 
omelet 

Q Lentil Hash 



Equal parts of boiled lentils and cold boiled potatoes, 
finely chopped. Minced onions should always be added, 
or minced celery. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 
Place the preparation in a hot buttered frying'pan and 
proceed as in nut hash. People often ask what lentils 
are and for the benefit of those who have never used 
them 1 will explain that they are a legume, highly nutri' 
tious and much used in Oriental countries. They can 
be obtained in any large city market 

Q Waldorf Eggs 

To prepare for six persons take six small, sweet peppers; 
remove every seed, being careful to leave the peppers 
in as perfect a condition as possible; boil in water until 
tender Have ready a hot tomato sauce and six pieces 
of toast made from stale bread cut in inch thick pieces, 

37 



38 



Now, good digestionwait on appetite, 
and health on both. 

Shakespeare 



from a round loaf if possible, and toasted slowly to a 
light brown in the oven. Butter the toast well; place 
a piece in the centre of each plate; put one of the red 
peppers on each plate, beside the round of toast, and 
on each piece of toast slip a poached egg, being careful 
not to break the yolk. Around the toast and peppers 
pour the tomato sauce. Place a small piece of butter on 
each egg and in the heart of each pepper. This is an 
extremely pretty lunch dish and is especially suitable 
when a red color scheme is desired 

Q Curried Eggs No. 1 

Boil for fifteen minutes as many fresh eggs as you wish 
to use; remove the shells carefully at once; cut the eggs 
in half lengthwise and place on a platter, the yolks 
uppermost. Pour around them Curry Sauce No. 2, 
and serve. 

Q Curried Eggs No. 2 

Place an entire hard boiled egg (the shell having been 
removed) in a sauce dish; pour around it Curry Sauce 
No, 2; lay a sprig of parsley on the sauce beside the 
egg; place the sauce dish on a small plate and serve 
individually 

Q Potato Scramble 

Three large cupfuls of mashed potatoes; four eggs. 
Put butter into a hot frying pan; turn the potatoes into 
it; break the eggs and turn them in on top of the potatoes ; 
with a fork break the yolks and stir them very lightly into 

39 




40 



Animals feed, men eat, but only men 
of intelligence know how to eat. 

T-Brillat-Savarin. 



the potatoes, but do not beat; keep tossing them as in 
cooking scrambled eggs until the white of egg has turned 
creamy and thick. Season with butter, white pepper 
and salt. 

Q Scramble of Peas 

Prepare green peas as is usual for serving, except drain 
off all juice. Scramble some eggs. Place the eggs in 
the middle of a platter, heaped up, and pour the peas 
around the mound of eggs. This is as good in its way 
as an omelet with peas and is less trouble. 

v 

Q Rice and Cheese Scramble 

One cup of boiled rice; two' thirds cupful grated cheese; 
four or five eggs. Moisten the rice and cheese with a 
little milk, mix together, and scramble in with the eggs. 
Very good. 

Q Okra and Egg 

Three cups of boiled or canned okra; two' thirds of a 
cup of boiled rice; one teaspoonful of lemon juice; two 
hard boiled eggs. Boil eggs twenty minutes; after they 
have been boiling ten minutes put the okra and rice over 
and boil ten minutes Remove the shells from the eggs, 
pour okra preparation into the dish for serving and slice 
the eggs over it. 



41 



Blest be those feasts with simple 
plenty crowned. 

Goldsmith. 



Q Layer Omelet 

A friend contributes this recipe, which must make a 
most attractive'looking omelet. It is, she affirms, a delic- 
ious one if eaten as soon as taken from the fire. Prepare 
as for any omelet but put only the beaten yolks of the 
eggs in the frying pan and do not add the well- beaten 
whites until the yolks have "set". Then spread the 
white of egg evenly over the yolk. Fold the omelet and 
serve immediately The frothy white of egg will puff 
out at the sides of the omelet and when cut the omelet 
will be in three layers, white and yellow. 

CROQUETTES 

E material used for croquettes should 
be chopped or ground fine, or put 
through a colander. It should be well 
seasoned, mixed with beaten egg, a little 
flour and butter, and moistened with boiling 
water or milk. 

Q[ In mixing croquettes, good judgment should 
be used not to have the mixture too dry to 
be palatable, nor too moist to keep its shape 
in frying. The croquettes may be made 
up into ball or cylinder shape, covered with 
beaten egg and rolled in very fine bread or 
cracker crumbs, placed in a wire croquette 

43 



A woman and her servant, acting 
in accord, would outwit a dozen 
devils. French Proverb. 



basket and let down into boiling fat, or oil, 
until browned; or, they may be made up in^ 
to little round cakes and fried in an ordinary 
frying pan. 

Q Nut Croquettes No. 1 

Equal parts of cold mashed potatoes and finely ground 
mixed nuts ; salt to taste. Add well beaten egg, and 
flour enough to bring to the right consistency for forming 
into croquettes. Roll in beaten egg and finely ground, 
or rolled, crumbs, and fry 

Q Nut Croquettes No. 2 

Two cups of soaked cracker crumbs ; one cup of soaked 
toasted corn crisps ; two heaping teaspoonfuls of peanut 
butter ; one well beaten egg. Dissolve the peanut butter 
in a little warm water to the consistency of cream. Use 
a little flour, or more corn crisp, if necessary, to form into 
shape ; cover with egg and cracker crumbs and fry in 
croquette basket ; or, make into little flat cakes and brown 
in a frying pan, 

Q To both of these recipes a little finely minced onion 
may be added, or they may be served with a tomato or 
onion sauce. In thecen re of each croquette a nut meat 
may be placed English walnut, pecan or almond. 

Q Split Pea Croquettes 

Three' quarter parts boiled split peas to one'quarter soaked 
cracker crumbs; add a litt e minced celery or boiled sweet 
pepper, minced fine, and one beaten egg. Roll in egg 
and cracker meal, and fry. 

45 




46 



He that is of a merry heart hath 
a continual feast. 

Proverbs. 



Q Bean Croquettes 

Boil a half pint of small white beans in a pint of water 
with one'half teaspoonful of soda for five minutes ; pour 
off the water and put through cold water till the skins 
come off; throw the skins away and boil the beans until 
tender ; strain off the water and use three-quarters of 
boiled beans to one- quarter part soaked cracker crumbs ; 
add a little finely minced onion, and mix, adding one egg 
and flour if necessary. Salt to taste. 

Q White sauce, tomato sauce, and celery sauce may be 
used with pea and bean croquettes. 

Q[ Cream Croquettes 

To each well 'beaten egg add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, one teaspoonful of sugar and enough cracker 
crumbs to absorb the egg and cream. Dredge over the 
mixture enough white flour to bring it to the proper 
consistency; dip into beaten egg and fry. Serve either 
cold with wh pped cream or hot with a hot fruit sauce. 

Q Apple Croquettes 

To two cupfuls of apples, cut in small pieces after 
being pared and cored, add a scant tablespoon of 
butter and one of water; cook in a double boiler until 
thick and dry, mashing well as the apples are softened; 
mix one'third cup of pastry flour, or of corn starch, 
with a little water, salt slightly, and stir into the thick' 
ened apple; cook for fifteen minutes, then add a beaten 
egg, stirring the mass lightly until the egg is cooked; 
cool in a flat dish; drop spoonfuls of the mixture into 
fine crumbs, then into beaten egg and again into the 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Especially good to serve 
with nut loaf or nut hash. 

47 



Let fancy, not cost, prepare all our dishes, 
Let the caterer mind the taste of each guest, 
And the cook, in his dressing, comply with their wishes 

Ben Jonson. 



Pungent sauces whet the appetite. 
Columella. 



SAUCES FOK CROQUETTES, 
NUT LOAF, ETC. 

White Sauce 



Mix two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour with a generous 
teacupful of warm butter. Place over the fire a sauce- 
pan containing a pint of sweet milk, a saltspoonful of 
salt and a pinch of white pepper When it begins to 
boil add the butter and flour, stirring constantly until it 
thickens and becomes like cream. If you choose, use 
cream instead of milk and leave out the butter 

(3[ Celery Sauce 

Take three heads of celery, cut into very small pieces, 
boil them eight minutes in water, then strain off the 
water and put the celery into a white sauce, prepared 
as above. Boil all together for eight minutes, stirring 
constantly 

Q Onion Sauce 



Into white sauce stir four tender boiled onions that have 
been chopped very fine. 

Q Curry Sauce No. 1 

Just before adding the butter and flour to the milk in 
making white sauce, stir in two-thirds of a teaspoonful 
of East Indian curry powder, which has been mixed with 
a dessertspoonful of the milk. 
51 




52 



We praise lor the things that bring 
out life's rich flavors. 

Good Things and Graces. 



Q Curry Sauce No. 2 

Place one tablespoonful of finely minced onion in & 
frying pan with a little butter and let it cook until slightly 
browned ; add to this two cupfuls of white sauce and 
one scant teaspoonful of East Indian curry powder, after 
it has been dissolved in a little water. Let it remain 
over the fire until it has boiled two minutes. 

Q Horse Radish Sauce 

Drain the vinegar from prepared horse radish and stir 
two heaping teaspoonfuls into a pint of white sauce 
Use more horse radish if desired. 

Q Tomato Sauce 

One pint of canned tomatoes ; one slice of onion ; one' 
half ounce of butter; one clove; pepper and salt. Boil 
twenty minutes, remove from the fire and strain through 
a sieve, Melt the butter and as it melts sprinkle in a 
tablespoonful of flour. Stir it until it browns and froths 
a little, then mix with the tomato preparation and serve. 

Q A French boarding-house keeper takes for her tomato 
sauces a condensed canned soup. This is reduced nearly 
as much as for soup and then thickened with flour, 
and butter added. 

Q Brown Sauce 

If you use browned butter and browned flour in making 
tomato sauce, or in making white sauce into brown 
sauce, it will furnish a pleasant variety. 

53 



There is about all natural products a certain volatile 
and ethereal quality which represents their highest value, 
and which cannot be vulgarized, or bought or sold No 
mortal has ever enjoyed the perfect flavor of any fruit 
and only the godlike among men begin to taste its am- 
brosial qualities. 

Thore&u. 



FRUITED CEREALS 




Hang your hurry habit up in the 
hall; it is bad form to wear it 
to the table. 



FRUITED CEREALS 



it is desirable to serve a warm 
dish for supper, or for a simple home 
lunch, cereals cooked with fruit and served 
with cream are delicious. Some combina^ 
tions which are popular with us are : 

(J Rice boiled or steamed with raisins and ground 
mixed nuts. 

(J Rice with raisins and blanched almonds. The 
almonds are not ground but broken in half lengthwise. 

<J Rice, dried currants and pecan nuts. The pecans 
should be boiled fifteen minutes before being added to 
the rice and currants and then should cook the twenty 
minutes needed to cook the rice. 

Q( The partly crushed or coarsely ground wheat pre' 
parations may be cooked with tender apples that have 
been peeled and quartered. The apples should not 
be too tart to serve with cream. 

(J The same kind of wheat preparations may also be 
cooked with raisins and figs ; the figs having been cut in 
narrow strips before cooking. 

(J Other wheat preparations are good with dates ; the 
dates cook very quickly, and should be stoned and cut in 
half or left entire, if the cereal is one that cooks in a 
short time the dates will cook to a mush if they are cut 
into small pieces. 

57 




58 



An' it's a good sayin', ate as littli as 
ye kin an' yit kape falin* sthrong. 

Shamrock Philosophy. 



Q The more finely ground breakfast cereals of wheat 
are especially good in combination with peaches, either 
canned or fresh. 

<J Cereals served with fruits should be well prepared 
not being so thin as to be suggestive of gruel nor so 
thick as to be heavy and lumpy. 

(J Rice for this purpose should be boiled until the grain 
has swelled to its full capacity and has just begun to 
break Rice should be carefully looked over and washed, 
and then thrown into boiling water and boiled con^ 
stantly for twenty minutes. The water should be 
drained off at once, leaving the rice tender and a hint 
soft but not in the least sodden or mushy. The water 
that is drained off from the rice contains nutritious 
matter and it should not be thrown away but used as a 
basis for soups or sauces at some other meal. 

(J A raw food cereal that is really delicious consists of 
raw oatmeal, seeded raisins and cream. Dates may be 
used in place of the raisins. 

Q The use of raw vegetables and fruits as food is 
steadily increasing as persons begin to understand their 
increased food value when eaten in this state. The 
mineral elements are among the most important in any 
food product. These elements consist of organic salts 
which are found in vegetable foods in the form most 
readily assimilated by the system. These salts are 
more or less changed by cooking or may be lost by ithe 
careless preparation of the food To ;be sure of obtain* 
ing them, therefore, a generous proportion of the diet 
should be of vegetables and fruits that are eaten raw 



59 



Table talk, to be perfect, should be sincere without 
bigotry, differing without discord, sometimes grave, 
always agreeable, touching on deep points, dwelling 
most on seasonable ones, and letting everybody speak 
and be heard 

L Leigh Hunt. 




62 



Bress de Lo'd I ain't got ter salt my 
vittles wid tears from de mo'ners' 
bench no mo'. 

Good Things and Graces. 



SOUPS 



Q Nut Chowder 

Two medium-sized potatoes ; one large onion ; two 
tomatoes ; one-half small, green, sweet pepper, cut 
into strips; one dessertspoonful of peanut butter dis- 
solved to a cream ; two tablespoonfuls of finely ground 
mixed nuts ; salt ; one quart of water. Let the pota" 
toes and onions be sliced thin but not chopped fine. 
The tomato should be cut into small pieces. Boil all 
together until the potatoes and onions are tender, just 
before serving add a teaspoonful of ordinary butter 

Q Strained Nut Soup 

One large onion ; two good- sized tomatoes ; one des- 
sertspoonful of peanut butter ; one heaping teaspoon' 
ful each of peanut and mixed nut butter ; one coffee- 
cupful of soaked entire wheat bread crumbs (though 
any wholesome bread will answer). Dissolve nut 
butter in a little water If liked, curry powder may be 
added, but for the ordinary taste when flavoring with 
curry powder r use much less than the recipes for curried 
d.shes usually advise. In this use a scant teaspoonful 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of water Boil forty mm- 
utes, take from the fire and put through a coarse 
strainer. The result should be a brown soup of cream 
consistency. 

Q[ Okra and Nut Soup 

One heaping tablespoonful of rice ; one medium-sized 

tomato; cne small onion; two cups of canned or 

stewed okra; one teaspoonful of nut butter, salt and 

63 




64 



Let the wine of joy flow freely. 



pepper. Peel the tomato and onion and mince them 
very fine. Boil the rice, minced onion and tomato in a 
half'pint of water until the rice begins to be tender. 
Boil the okra a few minutes, put through a colander. 
Dissolve the nut butter in two tablespoonfuls of water 
and add it to the soup, with one and a half pints of 
water. Boil ten minutes and serve. 



Q Filbert Soup 

One pint of water ; one and one'half teaspoonfuls of 
finely minced onion ; one pint of milk ; one table' 
spoonful of rice, boiled until tender. Finally add filbert 
meal until there is a decided filbert flavor, salt to taste, 
let it boil five minutes longer and serve. This is a 
delicious and delicate soup. 



Q Tomato Bisque 

One pint of canned or fresh tomatoes, cut in small 
pieces; one quart miik; one'third cup butter; one 
tablespoonful flour; one teaspoonful salt; half salt' 
spoonful white pepper ; dash of red pepper. Stew the 
tomatoes until soft enough to strain, if they are very 
acid adding a half saltspoonful of soda before straining. 
Heat the milk and add to it gradually a tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour rubbed together. Season the 
strained tomatoes and add to it the thickened milk and 
the rest of the butter, a small portion at a time, stir 
steadily till the mixture boils up once and serve imme' 
diately. All or part cream may be used instead of the 
milk, in which case use less butter in proportion. 



65 



Relax body and mind, permit your 
soul to lean against the shoulder of 
the Infinite a few moments and 
then to the feast. 



Q Corn Chowder 

The kernels from twelve ears of corn ; two onions ; 
four tablespoonfuls butter ; four pilot biscuits ; six pota- 
toes ; one cupful milk; tablespoonful flour; salt and 
pepper to taste ; one tablespoonful minced parsley ; one 
quart water. Cut the kernels from the ears of corn. 
Peel and mince the onions and fry in a deep saucepan 
in three tablespoonfuls of the butter, add the corn, the 
pilot biscuit broken in small pieces ; the potatoes par- 
boiled and sliced, and the seasoning. . Cover with a 
quart of boiling water and cook gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Heat the milk to boiling and 
thicken with butter and flour rubbed together and added 
gradually. Add to chowder and turn at once into a 
hot tureen. 



Q Cream oF Corn Soup 

Six or seven ears of sweet corn, choosing ears that are 
a little old for table purposes ; one pint water ; one 
pint milk or cream ; one teaspoonful salt ; half salt- 
spoonful white pepper ; one teaspoonful sugar ; one 
tablespoonful flour ; one tablespoonful butter. Score 
down the rows of kernels with a sharp knife and then 
scrape out the pulp with the back of the knife until 
there is enough to make a pint. Add this to the pint of 
water, which should be boiling, and cook fifteen min- 
utes. Add the salt, pepper and sugar. Heat the milk 
in a separate vessel and add to the pulp. Kub butter 
and flour together, thin it with a little of the mixture, 
added gradually ; then turn it into the soup, cook five 
minutes more and serve. 

67 




68 



It is the exquisite quality of a 
dinner that pleases us, not the 
multiplicity of dishes. 



Q Cream of Vegetable Soup 

Three potatoes carefully peeled ; three small carrots ; 
one turnip ; three onions ; four large stalks of celery ; 
three stalks of parsley. Chop all to the size of small 
dice. Cover with two quarts of water and season 
with salt and pepper. Rice may be added if desired. 
Just before removing from the fire add a half'pint of 
cream. 

(J This soup is to be used without straining, but if you 
wish a strained soup the vegetables may be sliced and 
covered with a pint more water and allowed to simmer 
for three hours, removing any scum that may arise; 
then strained and put over the fire again, the cream 
added, and in two minutes removed and served. 



Q Other Cream Soups 

Cream of Celery, Cream of Lima Beans, Cream of 
Asparagus, Cream of Green Peas and other cream 
vegetable soups may be made as follows: To one 
pint of the vegetable desired, cooked to a pulp and 
strained through a colander, allow one quart of milk. 
Heat the milk and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into one of butter. Heat vegetable pulp sep' 
arately, season with salt and white pepper, and, if 
desired a few drops of onion juice. Add the thick' 
ened milk, cook three minutes and serve. 



69 



Soup is to a dinner what a por- 
tico is to a palace, or an 
overture to an opera. 

Grimond de la Reynere. 



q Tomato Barley Soup 

Six good sized tomatoes, one large onion, one large potato, 
one'half green sweet pepper. Cut all into very small 
pieces, add salt and pepper and one quart of water. 
Boil the vegetables and two dessertspoonfuls of barley 
together until the barley is very tender. Add one table* 
spoonful of butter and serve. 

(J The addition of nut butter mixed to a cream in a 
little water, or nut butter and mixed nut meal, will con* 
vert these vegetable soups into nut soups. 

Q Fruit Soups 

Fruit soups are really very nourishing, forming the sub* 
stantial part of the meal in many countries where their 
value is appreciated. Almost any fruit may be used 
as the basis of such a soup, using, for stewed fruits 
passed through a sieve, an equal quantity of water, 
thickening each pint of the whole with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of arrowroot, tapioca, sago or cornstarch. 

(J The pure juices of fresh fruits, like red raspberries or 
strawberries, may be used in the same way. Fruit 
soups are served hot or chilled, using small bowls or 
bouillon cups. 

Q Prune Soup 

Rub a pint of prunes, stewed soft, through a colander, 
sweeten and add one pint of water, bring to the boiling 
point and thicken with a tablespoonful of cornstarch or 
arrowroot, mixed till smooth in a little cold water, cook 
till clear, adding a little salt, a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and a little of the grated lemon rind ; strain and 
serve hot or chilled. 

71 



MAYONNAISE FOR BLUE MONDAY SALAD 

Cut up some lively capers, add to them a sauce made 
of the milk of human kindness, thickened with peace oil 
and spiced to taste. When using this mayonnaise always 
serve some fresh peals of laughter with the salad. If 
you find it impossible to obtain the fresh peals, use 
some that you have sun-dried for emergencies. 

Good Things and Graces. 




74 



Not too divine to toss you up a 
salad. 

Austin Dobson. 



RAW FOOD SALADS 



MAY wisely follow the raw food 
enthusiast in the use of the most 
palatable and wholesome part of his bill 
of fare, i.e., the raw vegetable salad. 
Q[ Here are a few combinations that have 
been very much liked by both the corv 
servative and radical salad lovers. 



Of Apple Combinations 



Tender, rather tart apples, sliced very thin and served 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 



Apples, Neufchatel cheese and English walnuts, on 
lettuce mayonnaise dressing. 



Apples, celery, English walnuts and white grapes cut 
in half lengthwise. 



Apples, celery, pecan nuts and a little minced onion on 
lettuce. 




What can I think of thy good quali- 
ties, onion, as every bite draws 
tears. Arabic Proverb. 



Q Raw Carrot Combinations 



Carrots, celery and onions. Use but half as much onion 
as of either carrot or celery. Carrots should always 
be sliced very thin and cut into small pieces. It is a 
vegetable that may be easily cut into fancy shapes. 

(J Raw carrots are considered extremely wholesome 
and, like apples and onions, great beautifiers. 



Carrots, celery and English walnuts. Serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise. 

Ill 

Carrots, dates and English walnuts. Serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Q Vegetable Salad 

Finely shredded cabbage, onion, celery and leaves from 
the heart of the spinach and coarsely ground mixed nuts. 
Serve with either a French dressing or a mayonnaise. 

<J In preparing cabbage for a salad slash deeply across 
the cabbage with a knife both ways before slicing it 
The shreds will be shorter and more manageable for 
eating. 



77 



/ am a great eater of beef, and I believe 
that does harm to my wit. 

Twelfth Night, 1, 3. 



Q Grape Fruit Combinations 

Grape fruit, or pomelo, is a fruit increasing in a 
deserved popularity. It makes a delicious and wholesome 
salad, which may be served in a variety of ways. To 
prepare it, peel and remove every particle of the bitter 
white covering of the pulp. Leave the pulp in larger 
and smaller chunks as it comes out from the sections. 

I 

Prepared grape fruit, with oranges, made ready in the 
same way. Serve on lettuce or crisp white cabbage 
leaves with mayonnaise. 

II 

Grape fruit, with an equal quantity of celery cut in inch 
lengths, and apples in small cubes. Serve on lettuce 
with French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Ill 

Grape fruit, with fresh or canned cherries and nuts, 
either chopped or whole, according to the kind used. 
Mayonnaise. 

Q Tropical Salad 

Use an equal quantity of dates cut in half and stoned, 
fresh cocoanut, with the brown part peeled off and then 
cut in cubes, and orange pulp freed from the white 
covering of the sections and broken as little as possible. 
Serve on crisp lettuce or tender white cabbage leaves 
with mayonnaise dressing. 



79 



At their savory dinner set 
Herbs and other country messes. 
Milton. 



Q Tomato Combinations 

i 

Tomato cups on lettuce, filled with nuts and celery. 
Mayonnaise. To make the cups peel the tomatoes and 
take out seeds. 



Tomato cups on lettuce, filled with minced onion and 
celery and minced green pepper. Mayonnaise 



III 



In the centre a mould of tomato jelly, around it a ring 
of finely shredded cabbage, onions and pecan nuts. 
Boiled mayonnaise dressing. 



In the centre, celery and 



IV 

Tomato jelly in a ring mould. 
English walnuts. 

Q Cucumber Salad 

Halve cucumbers, cut lengthwise, and fill with finely 
cut tomatoes, onions, celery, parsley and pecan nuts. 
Peel the cucumbers and remove the seeds before fill- 
ing, also peel the tomatoes and remove the seeds before 
using in the salad. After the cucumbers are filled 
chill them on ice. 

q Mayonnaise Dressing 

Two egg yolks, one to two cups of olive oil, two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, one- 



31 




82 



Labor gives the best relish. 

Latin proverb. 



sixteenth teaspoon paprika. Beat the yolks of the eggs, 
add the olive oil, drop by drop, beating continually 
until thick, then add vinegar and lemon juice until thin. 
Again add oil until thick, and thin as before. Repeat 
this operation until the oil has been added. Mix to^ 
gether the mustard, salt and pepper and stir into the oil 
and egg. Whipped cream may be added just before 
serving. 

C( If the dressing is to be made on a warm day or in a 
very warm room, have the ingredients and utensils ice 
cold. While making the dressing have the bowl suf 
rounded by ice water. 



C} French Dressing 

French Dressing is easily and quickly made. The usual 
proportion is one part vinegar to four parts oil. Put 
four tablespoonfuls of oil in a bowl which has been 
thoroughly chilled, or set the bowl in another contain^ 
ing ice water or bits of cracked ice. Next put in a 
half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper, 
mixing them together until the salt is dissolved, then 
add the vinegar drop by drop, constantly stirring, so as 
to blend the oil and vinegar together as perfectly as 
possible. The proportion of oil and vinegar and that 
of seasoning may be varied to suit individual tastes, and 
all or part lemon juice may be used instead of the 
vinegar, if preferred. Tarragon vinegar makes a pleas - 
ant change in the flavor. 



83 



Plain food is quite enough for me ; 

Three courses are as good as ten 
If Nature can subsist on three, 

Thank Heaven for three. Amen I 
I always thought cold victual nice 

My choice would be vanilla-ice. 

Dr. Holmes. 



SANDWICHES 
AND COLD DRINKS 




Joy, gentle friends! Joy and fresh 
days of love accompany your 
hearts! 

Shakespeare. 



SANDWICHES 

TO MAKE good sandwiches use bread 
that is rather stale and cut in very 
thin slices, trimming off the edges to make 
the pieces even. It is better to butter the 
bread before cutting the slice, especially if 
the butter is not very soft. Whole wheat 
bread makes delicious sandwiches, and 
Boston brown bread is also an acceptable 
variety, both of these blending especially 
well with nut combinations for filling. If 
sandwiches are to be kept for some time 
after making they should be wrapped in a 
cloth dipped in cold water and then wrung 
almost dry. Put a dry cloth over this, and 
keep, if possible, in a tin box. 

Q Nut Sandwiches 

Almost any kind of nut makes a good sandwich. Have 
them ground fine and mix smooth with a little mayon* 
naise or use plain cream. A leaf of crisp lettuce used 
between the slices with the nuts is an improvement. 

Q Waldorf Sandwiches 

Chop apples and celery fine and use an equal part of 
each, with English walnuts ground as directed above ; 
mix with a little mayonnaise or sweet cream and spread 
between thin slices of white bread. 

87 




88 



Oh! herbaceous treat! 

'Twould tempt the dying anchorite 

to eat. 

Sidney Smith. 



Q Banana Sandwiches 

Mash ripe bananas to a pulp and add lemon juice to 
taste; spread between buttered whole wheat bread. 
Instead of crushing, the fruit may be sliced lengthwise 
and dipped in lemon juice or mayonnaise before being 
placed between the slices of bread. 

Q Lemon Sandwiches 

To one cup of sweet butter add half the grated rind 
and all the juice of one lemon ; mix together till well 
blended, then set aside for several hours before using. 
When ready to spread the sandwiches use this prep- 
aration as a filling between slices of whole wheat or 
ordinary white bread. 

Q Grape Sandwiches 

Seed Malaga grapes and slice thin with a sharp knife ; 
add chopped English walnut meats and mix with may 
onnaise ; use between white bread sliced thin and cut 
in circular shape with a biscuit cutter. 

q Chestnut- Cherry Sandwiches 

Use boiled chestnuts, removing the brown husk from the 
outside, mash to a paste, adding a little thick syrup, 
made of granulated sugar and water boiled together; 
mix the paste with an equal part of candied cherries 
chopped fine ; spread between saltine wafers, or on 
thin white bread and butter, cutting the slices into 
triangles or narrow strips. 



Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes 
a feast. 

-Pericles. 



Q Date Sandwiches 

Chop dates, after removing the stones, until they are 
made into a soft paste; spread between slices of but' 
tered whole wheat or brown bread. An equal part of 
chopped nuts may be mixed with the dates, or nut but' 
ter may be used instead of the common kind with ex' 
eel lent results. 

(J A sandwich composed of whole wheat bread, dates 
and nuts furnishes an ideal food, combining, as it does, 
the necessary elements of nitrogen, fat, sugar, etc., in a 
perfect form, and one palatable alike tfe grown persons 
and to children, the latter especially needing nourish' 
ment rich in these elements. 



Q Lady Baltimore Sandwiches 

Use ground English walnuts or pecan nuts, with an 
equal part each of figs and raisins chopped fine; mix 
with mayonnaise, spread between thin slices of white 
bread and cut in fancy shapes. If a sweet sandwich 
is wanted use boiled icing instead pf the mayonnaise 
and spread between slices 6f stale white cake. 

Q Olive Sandwiches 

Olive sandwiches are particularly dainty and appetiz' 
ing. To make them, obtain the small olives stuffed 
with red peppers and chop fine; mix with mayonnaise 
and spread between slices of thin white bread cut in 
lengthwise strips. Plain olives, stoned and chopped, 
may be used as a filling, if preferred 



91 




92 



/ hope we shall drink down all 
unkindness. 

Shakespeare. 



COLD DRINKS 

A LL drinks that are to be served cold 
*~* should be very cold, the mixture being 
kept in the refrigerator long enough to chill 
thoroughly, or put in a punch bowl or 
pitcher with a large lump of ice when 
ready to serve. For those who must have 
their drinks extra cold, crushed ice may be 
placed in the glasses before serving. 

Q Cherry Punchade 

Remove the seeds from one pound of cherries and 
crush the fruit with a potato masher; add the juice of 
two oranges and three lemons, a cup of grated pine* 
apple and two cups of sugar. Let this stand one hour, 
then press the juice through a cheesecloth bag ; add a 
quart of carbonated water, some slices of banana and 
pineapple and a cup of candied cherries, or very ripe, 
fresh fruit when in season. Pour over a large lump of 
ice in a punch bowl and serve. 

0[ Pineappleade 

Chop a pineapple without paring, cover with water 
and boil five minutes ; cool, strain and add the juice 
of limes or lemons with sugar to taste. Serve with 
crushed ice in the glasses. 



93 



Here's to us all! God bless every one I 
Dickens. 



Q Pomelade and Limeade 

For Pomelade use one cup of juice of grape fruit to a 
quart of water, carbonated or plain. Sweeten to taste 
and serve ice cold. Limeade is made in the same way. 
Either of these drinks is refreshing and both are mildly 
tonic in their properties. 

<| Milk Lemonade 

To six sliced lemons add a half pound of sugar and let 
it stand ten or twelve hours ; strain and add a pint and 
a half of boiling water ; stir well and add a half pint 
of boiling milk ; strain and serve hot or cold, adding a 
little nutmeg, if liked. 

Q Raspberry Cup 

Make a syrup of one pint of granulated sugar and one 
pint of water and let it cool ; pour over fresh red rasp* 
berries and set on ice to chill thoroughly. Use sherbet 
cups in serving. 

Q Currant Cup is made in the same way, by pouring 
the cold syrup over stemmed currants and setting away 
for three or four hours where it will chill thoroughly. 

(| Currant or Raspberry Shrub is made of the strained 
juice of the fruit, to which a pound of sugar for each 
pint of juice is added ; boil five minutes, bottle and seal. 



95 



In good company you need not ask who is the master 
of the feast. The man who sits in the lowest place, 
and who is always industrious in helping everyone, is 
certainly the man. 

Hume. 



A FEW MENUS 




In winter be well-capped, well-shod, 
And well on porridge fed. 

Gaelic Proverb. 



TWO BREAKFASTS 



Fruited Cereal 

Potato and Egg Scramble 

Toast Coffee 



Grape Fruit 

Nut Hash Muffins 

Coffee 





100 



Everyone knows what boils in his 

own pot. 

Creole Proverb. 



SIMPLE HOME LUNCHEONS 

(When papa is at home) 

Nut Croquettes Baked Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Vegetable Salad Buttered Wafers 

Berries and Cream 

Coffee 



(When mamma and the children are alone) 

Nut Soup 

Hot Cream of Wheat poured over ripe sliced Peaches 
Chocolate Bread and Butter 

101 



Joy is more divine than sorrow, for 
joy is bread and sorrow is medi- 
cine. 

-H. W. Beecher. 



RED LUNCHEONS 



Filbert Soup 
Waldorf Eggs 
Tomato Salad No. 1 

Strawberries and Cream 
Coffee 



Croutons 

Rice Balls 
Buttered Wafers 
Assorted Cakes 



Red P\aspberry Soup Crackers 

Waldorf Eggs 

Bread Olives 

Tomato Salad No. 3 Buttered Wafers 

Strawberries and Cream Assorted Cakes 

Coffee 
Nuts Red Bon-bons Raisins 



The Filbert Soup may be colored with the liquid coloring matter 
used in cooking or it may be served in red glasses. The dining- 
room and table decorations may be red roses, or bowls of scarlet 
poppies. 



103 



They are as sick that surfeit with 
too much, as they that starve with 

nothing. 

Shakespeare. 



COMPANY DINNERS 



Strained Nut Soup 
Stuffed Olives Crackers 

Waldorf Eggs 

Baked Peas 
Rice 
Tomato Salad No. 2 



Potato Balls 
White Sauce 

Creamed Onions 

Buttered Wafers 



Strawberry Shortcake 

Vanilla Cream Assorted Cakes 

Coffee 



Cream of Vegetable Soup Croutons 

Baked Peppers No. 2 Cream Sauce 
Stewed Celery Mushroom Patties 

Nut Loaf No. 1 Tomato Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes Peas 

Cucumber Salad 

Ice Cream Assorted Cakes 

Toasted Crackers Cheese 

Coffee 

105 



Bread is the staff of life. 
Swift. 



COMPANY DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup Crackers 

Curried Eggs No. 2 Olives 

Stewed Mushrooms 

Nut Loaf No. 1 Onion Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Cucumber Salad 

Ice Cream Assorted Cakes 

Toasted Crackers Coffee Cheese 

Fruit Bon-bons Nuts 



SIMPLE HOME DINNER 



Nut Chowder 

Stuffed Tomatoes No. 1 

Mashed Potatoes Stewed Onions 

Apple Salad No. 2 
Toasted Wafers No. 2 Coffee 

107 




108 



A little bannock with a blessing, 
Is better than a big one with a curse. 
Gaelic Proverb. 



HOME DINNERS 

Nut Chowder Crackers 

Baked Tomatoes No. 1 
Mashed Potatoes Creamed Onions 

Apple Salad No. 2 
Lemon Meringue Pie Coffee 



Tomato Barley Soup Croutons 

Baked Hominy and Cheese 
Boiled Potatoes Peas 

Raw Vegetable Salad 

Baked App'es and Cream 

Coffee 

109 



INDEX 



Page 

Apples, Stuffed . . I 29 

Baked Dishes . . . . 19, 33 

Beans, Baked .... 33 

" Red Kidney . . . .33 

Breakfasts, Two .... 99 

Cheese Custard . . . .31 

Cherry Punchade (cold drink) . . 93 

Chews to a Mouthful, Forty . . .15 

Chowder, Corn . . . . 67 

"Nut 63 

Croquettes . . . . 43, 47 

" Apple . . . .47 

Bean .... 47 

Cream . . . .47 

Nut . . . 45 

Split Pea . . . .45 

Dressing, French .... 

" Mayonnaise . . . .81 

Dinners, Company . . . . 105, 107 

Drinks, Cold . . . . 93, 95 

Eggs, Curried .... 39 

" Waldorf . . . .37 

Fruited Cereals . . . . 55, 59 

Hash, Lentil 37 

"Nut 37 

Home Dinners, Simple . . . 107, 109 
Hominy and Cheese, Baked . 

Limeade (cold drink) . . . .95 

Luncheon and Breakfast Dishes . . 35, 47 

Luncheons, Red . . . . 103 

Simple Home . . . 101 

Meat Eating, On . . . .11 

Menus, A Few . . . . 97, 109 

Milk Lemonade (cold drink) . . .95 
Mushrooms, Baked . 

Nut Loaf . . . 23, 25 
Nuts, Preparing . 

Ckra and Egg . . . . .41 
Omelet, Layer .... 

Peppers, Baked 27 

Pineappleade (cold drink) . 

Pomelade (cold drink) . . . .95 

Potato Scramble .... 

Raspberry Cup . . . . .95 

Rice and Cheese, Baked 

Salad, Cucumber . . . .81 



INDEX 



Page 

Salad, Tropical - . . . . 79 

" Vegetable . . . .77 

Salads 73, 83 

Apple 75 

" Grape Fruit Combinations . . 

" Raw Carrot . . . .77 

" Raw Food . . . . 75, 83 

" Tomato Combinations . .81 

Sandwiches . . . . 85, 91 

Banana . . . .89 

Chestnut'Cherry . . 89 

Date . . .91 

Grape . . . . 89 

Lady Baltimore . . . .91 

Lemon . . . . 89 

Nut . . . . 87 

Olive .... 91 

Waldorf . . . .87 

Sauce, Brown . . . 53 

" Celery . . . . .51 

Curry, No. I . . . 51 

" " 2 . . . .53 

Horse Radish ... 53 

Onion . . . . .51 

Tomato .... 53 

White 51 

Scramble, Rice and Cheese . . 41 

of Peas . . . .41 

Soup, Cream of Asparagus . 69 

" Celery . . .69 

" Corn . ' 67 

" Green Peas . . .69 

" " Lima Beans . . 69 

" " Vegetable . . .69 

Filbert .... 65 

Fruit 71 

Okra and Nut . . 63 

Prune 71 

Strained Nut . . ... 63 

Tomato Barley . . . .71 

Bisque ... 65 

Tomatoes, Stuffed . . . .25 
with Bean Stuffing 

" Cheese Stuffing . .27 

" Nut " ; . 27 

"Pea " , . 25 



IIRPAPY 

RETURN BIOSCIENCE & NATURAL RESOURCES LIBRARY 

TO +> 2101 VALLEY LIFE SCIENCES BLDG. 642-2531 



LOAN PERIOD 1 


2 


3 


4 


5 7 DA^ 


6 


ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 


D\J^ 






Q I ? 


REU U B!uo 
in 1 l f n^ 1 00 P 




REC'DBIOol 


flR i i U2 1 * 


fr 


DECC p'97-mooJ 






1 






DUE 




APR - * 1998 






REC D Bli 






APf(16'yb-8 HM 




r>i IF- 






UUfc 






i mt 







UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA, BERKELEY 

FORM NO. DDO, 50m. 1 1 /94 BERKELEY, CA 94720 



U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 

CDE7Mfl2bm 



