X 

j&&3 
05-7 
lS0'7a 



OteJaSir 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924073972303 



..CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRAfi' 




924 073 972 303 





DATE 


DUE 




















































































































































j QAYLORD 






PRINTED IN U.SA 



Pitxiuction Note 



Cornell University Library produced this volume 
to replace the ineparably deteriorated originaL It 
was scanned at 600 dots per inch resol ution and 
compressed prior to storage using CCirr/ITU 
Group 4 compression. The digital data were 
used to create Cornell's replacement volume on 
paper that meets the ANSI Standard 239.48- 
1992. The production of this volume was 
supported by the United States Department of 
Education, Higher Education Act, Tide II-C. 

Scanned as part of the A. R. Mann Library 
project to preserve and enhance access to the 
Core Historical Literature of the Agricultural 
Sciences. Titles included in this collection are 
listed in the volumes published by the Cornell 
University Press in the series The Literature of 
the Agricultural Sciences. 1991-1996, Wallace 
C. Olsen. sales editor. 






LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




&if t of 
Helen Uonsch 



SELECTION AND 
PREPARATION OF FOOD 

LABORATORY GUIDE 

DEPARTMENT OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE 
THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 



ISABEL BEVIER, Ph.M. 
ANNA R. VAN METER, A.B. 
f 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 
BOSTON, 1907 



"/ /( tow—' 
©5-7 



COPYRIGHT 1907 
BY 

ISABEL BEVIER and ANNA R. VAN METER 



COUPOSITION AND BLACTROTTPINO BY 

THOMAS TODD 

14 BBACON STRBBT, BOSTON, MASS. 



CONTENTS 

FIRST SEMESTER 
{Course i) 

Introduction ,. 

General Outline g 

Kitchen and Equipment o 

Water j . 

Milk ,- 

Eggs 21 

Cheese 2 c 

Meat 28 

Gelatin 40 

Fats and Oils 42 

Demonstration 47 



SECOND SEMESTER 
(Course 6) 

Preservation of Food 48 

Carbohydrates in General 53 

Cane Sugar 55 

Starch 59 

Carbohydrates in Combination ... 62 

Cereals 68 

Flour " 80 

Breads 82 

Practice Luncheon 84 

Meals 86 



LABORATORY GUIDE 



INTRODUCTION 

'"T^HIS Guide has been prepared for the students 
-'- taking the work in the Selection and Preparation 
of Food in the Department of Household Science of 
the University of Illinois. 

The courses as given continue during two semesters 
and include four hours of laboratory work per week, 
supplemented by one lecture and one recitation. In 
the first semester emphasis is placed upon the prin- 
ciples governing the selection and preparation of food. 
In the second semester a consideration of its eco- 
nomic and esthetic value is emphasized. At the end 
of the first semester's work demonstrations are given 
by the students to test their skill and knowledge. 
At the close of a year's work they serve meals for 
the same purpose. The subject of Dietetics is given 
in a separate course. Before beginning this work the 
student is required to have had high school physics 
and one semester of chemistry in the University. 

The work is based on the supposition that a scien- 
tific study of the food problem requires a sufficient 
knowledge of pure science to appreciate the funda- 
mental processes that underlie the preparation of food. 
The Guide is not in any sense of the term a cook book, 
neither does it make any claim to originality in recipes. 

S 



6 Preparation of Food 

Those used are taken from standard works or formu- 
lated to meet a particular need. This work is an 
attempt to teach the principles of cookery in the 
same general method as the principles of chemistry 
are taught, i.e., by a study of different classes of 
compounds. 

In the "General Outline" the topics covered by 
lecture and recitation, as well as the laboratory work, 
are suggested, but in the text only the ' laboratory 
work is given. In the general scheme the student 
is introduced first to the kitchen, as the place where 
the work is done, and is made familiar with its equip- 
ment and the chief media used in the preparation of 
food, viz., heat and water. 

The first real work with food begins with milk, 
because it is easy to separate from it the different 
food principles. Moreover, it also affords an intro- 
duction, by lecture, to the study of the composition 
of the body and the uses of the food principles in it. 
In order to avoid confusion of thought it seems better 
to study one food principle at a time. The work with 
proteid.is followed by that on fat. The study of eggs 
gives a comparatively pure form of proteid with which 
to study its characteristics. Eggs, cheese, and meat 
are typical forms of proteid food, and they, with fat, 
furnish the basis of work for the fij-st semester. 

In every case the plan of studying any food is, 
to consider its general aspects in the lecture, its phys- 
ical and chemical properties in the laboratory, and 
finally, to show how these influence the preparation 
of a particular dish. For instance, a custard is a good 



Laboratory Guide 7 

example of a combination of food materials, and the 
low temperature used in making it is a result of what 
has been learned concerning the action of heat on 
proteid. Again, the cheese dishes introduce other 
elements to be considered in making combinations of 
food materials. The dishes selected are such as seem 
to illustrate the principles previously studied. Care 
in manipulation and attractiveness of appearance are 
constantly considered, but the dish is made to illustrate 
a principle. For example, water as a carrier of flavor 
may be illustrated either by the making of tea or 
of lemon ice, but in one case the principle of extract- 
ives is taught, while in the other the principle of the 
freezing point of solutions is illustrated. Beverages 
and desserts suggest themselves in this connection, 
but such a classification is merely incidental to the 
study of the principles. 

The same general plan is followed in the work 
of the Second Semester (Course 6), which deals chiefly 
with different forms of carbohydrates. Actual practice 
in selection is given by visits to the markets. Doubt- 
less individual teachers will wish to modify the work 
to suit their conditions. 



FIRST SEMESTER (COURSE I) 

PRINCIPLES OF THE SELECTION AND 
PREPARATION OF FOOD 

General Outline 

I. The Kitchen. 

1. Plan. 

2. Equipment. 

3. Chief agents used : 

(a) Heat. 
{d) Water. 

II. Nature and Uses of Food. 

Considered as to : 

1. Source. 

2. Condition. 

3. Chemical composition. 

(a) Of food. 
(6) Of the body. 

4. Function in the body of : 

(«) Protein. 

(6) Fat. 

(c) Carbohydrate. 

(i) Water. 

(e) Mineral matter. 

5. Economic and esthetic value. 

8 



Laboratory Guide 



III. 



IV. 



V. 



Selection of Food. 


Princip] 


es governing selection : 


I. 


Nature. 


2. 


Use. 


3- 


Cost. 


4- 


Condition. 


5- 


Preparation required. 


Preparation of Food. 


I. 


Chief agent : Heat. 




{a) Sources. 




(b) Application. 


2. 


Principles involved. 




Laws of : 




{a) Heat. 




{b) Combination. 




(c) Fermentation. 




{d) Manipulation. 




{e) Esthetic effect. 


Study of Typical Forms of Proteid and Fat 



THE KITCHEN 



I. 


Size of room. 


2. 


Ventilation. 




fwall. 


3- 


Finish of } woodwork. 




[ floor. 


4- 


Furniture. 


5- 


Desk furnishings. 



lo Preparation of Food 

6. Stoves. 

(a) Kinds : 

Gas range. 

Coal range. 

Aladdin oven. 

Gas oven. 

Norwegian cooker. 

Gas burners. 
(d) Material and construction (make drawings). 

(c) Fuel used. 

(d) Application of the heat. 

Laying a Fire 

Lay a fire in coal stove, using both coal and wood. 
Explain the terms kindhng and kindling temperature. 

Reading Gas Meter 

Record the reading of the gas meter on the blanks 
provided, using the lower space. Make another read- 
ing at the end of the month, and compute the gas 
bill at current rates. 

Note. — See instructions on back of blank. 

Experiment I 

Cost of Gas 

From time required to burn 2 cu. ft. of gas, using 
small burner of gas range at full capacity, estimate 
cost per hour of gas at current rate. 

Measurements 
Repeat each measurement as a check. 



Laboratory Guide ii 

Experiment 2 

Capacity 

1. Number of tsp of water in tbsp. 
Number of tbsp of water in i cup. 
Number of cups of water in i quart. 

2. Number of tsp of flour in tbsp. 
Number of tbsp of flour in i cup. 
Number of cups of flour in i quart. 
(Flour to be sifted once before using.) 

Experiment 3 

Weight 

1. Weight by metric system of : 

(«) I c flour. (c) I c water. 

(b) I c sugar. (d) i c lard. 

2. Repeat part i, using avoirdupois. 

From above data compute number of cups of flour 
in I lb. avoirdupois. Of sugar. Of lard. Using 
standard measures, what variation may occur in the 
quantity of material actually taken ? 



MEANS OF APPLYING HEAT 

Temperatures 

Experiment 4 

Temperature i 

I. Record temperature of room and of water from 
cold water faucet, using both Fahrenheit and Centigrade 
thermometers. 

1 Unless otherwise indicated the Centigrade scale is used. 



12 Preparation of Food 

2. Record temperature of water from the hot water 
faucet, using Centigrade thermometer. Express same in 
terms of Fahrenheit scale. 

Experiment 5 

Temperature of Water 

1 . Heat 2 c of water and note temperature : 
(a) At which small bubbles begin to rise. 

{b) At which larger bubbles rise and break at 
the surface of the water. 

(c) When the surface of the water is completely 
agitated. 

2. Note temperature to which water rises in the 
top of a double boiler when water below is boiling. 

Experiment 6 

Temperatures of Steam 

1. Note temperature of steam just above the sur- 
face of boiling water. 

2. Note temperature of steam in a covered steamer 
over boiling water. 

Explain the difference. 

Does the temperature change in any of the preceding 
cases as the boiling is continued ? 

Experiment 7 

Temperatures of Mixtures and Solutions 

I. Add 2 tsp of fat to 2 c of water. Note the 
boiling point of the mixture. 



Laboratory Guide 13 

2. Dissolve i c of sugar in 2 c of water. Note the 
boiling point of this solution. 

Continue the boiling for 5 minutes. Is there a 
change in the boiling point .? Why .? 

Experiment 8 

Oven Temperatures 

Test the oven at the following temperatures as 
indicated by the thermometer, 130°, 175°, 200°, 250°: 

1. By noting time required to toast bread a golden 
brown. 

2. By any other test with which you are familiar. 

Experiment 9 

Temperatures of Fat (Demonstration) 

1. Note condition of a piece of bread dropped into 
fat when the latter is at the boiling point of water. 
How may this temperature be determined without a 
thermometer 1 

2. Note temperature of fat at which bread is 
browned : 

(«) In I minute. 
{b) In 40 seconds. 
Discuss the difference in results in Experiments 8 
and 9. 

Experiment 10 

Conservation of Heat 

Fill a heated jar with boiling water and place in 
the Norwegian cooker, noting temperature just before 
adjusting the cover. 



14 Preparation of Food 

At the end of the laboratory period compare the 
temperature of the water in this jar with the temper- 
ature of water in a second jar prepared under exactly 
similar conditions, but allowed to stand at room tem- 
perature. 

What temperatures in Experiment s are comparable 
to the temperatures maintained by the cooker ? 

Experiment tl 

Freezing Temperatures 

Note temperature : 

1. Of pounded ice. 

2. Of a mixture of 4 parts ice and i part salt. 

3. Of a mixture of 2 parts ice and i part salt. 
Explain the difference. 



WATER 

Experiment 12 

Water as a Solvent 

(For notes on this process, see sugar solution, Ex- 
periment 7, part 2.) 

Experiment 13 

Water as a Carrier of Flavor 
I. Water Ice 

Dissolve 2 measures of sugar in 4 measures of water 
and boil a few minutes. Remove from the fire, add 
I measure of lemon juice strained. Cool, pour into 



Laboratory Guide 15 

a suitable vessel and surround with ice and salt. Stir 
the lemon mixture while freezing. Note the temperature : 

(a) Of lemon mixture at beginning of the 
process. 

(b) Of lemon ice and of the freezing mixture 
when the process is iinished. 

2. Coffee 
(a) Filtered (Demonstration). 
\b) Boiled. 
For each cup of coffee to be made mix 2 tbsp of coffee 
with I tbsp of cold water. If desired add 4 tsp of beaten 
t.gg. Pour over this i c of cold water or i c of freshly 
boiling water. In either case maintain a simmering 
temperature ' for about 4 minutes ; let boil up once. 
To allow it to settle, let it stand for about 10 minutes 
where it will keep hot. 

3. Tea 
For each cup of tea to be prepared 'place i tsp of 
tea in a heated teapot. Pour over this i c of freshly 
boiling water. Keep hot for 5 minutes. 

Compare tea served at the end of 5 minutes' steep- 
ing with some which has been allowed to steep for 
20 minutes. 

What is meant by an infusion .? A decoction .? 
Give illustrations from above beverages. 

Experiment 14 

Preparation of Dried Fruit. (Replacement of Water 
Lost by Evaporation) 

Wash dried fruit carefully. Cover with fresh water 
and let stand in a cool place 1 2 hours. Put fruit with 



1 6 Preparation of Food 

water in which it was soaked into a double boiler and 
cook until soft, adding a little sugar if desired Serve 
cold. 

Water as a Cleansing Agent 
Dish Washing 

1. Scrape all crumbs, scraps, etc., from the dishes 
into the waste jar ; greasy dishes may be wiped out 
with soft paper. Dishes with dough, milk, or Qgg 
adhering should be put to soak in cold water. 

2. Pile all dishes of a kind together. 

3. Provide plenty of good soapy water and hot 
rinse water. 

4. Wash glassware first, china next, then silver, 
and lastly cooking utensils. 

Be sure that all are perfectly dry before putting 
away. 

5. Wash table top well, using sapolio, if necessary, 
to remove spots. 

6. Wash and rinse both dish cloth and dish towel 
and hang to dry. 

Cleaning of Refrigerator 
Remove all the racks. Wash the inside well and 
wipe dry. If necessary a little hot soda solution may 
be poured into the waste pipe. Leave the doors open 
until the interior is cooled and aired. Wash and scald 
the racks. When cooled replace. 

Cleaning of Sinks 
Clean the faucets, polishing if tarnished. Wash 
drain board and wipe it well. Remove stains from the 



Laboratory Guide 17 

enamel of the sink with kerosene, hydrochloric acid, or 
sapolio. Clean the strainer and trap by pouring hot 
soda solution through. Wash the sink and rinse well, 
wiping the sides and edges. 



MILK 

References: Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 

Dietetics, Chapter VII. 
Bulletin 25, Office of Experiment Stations. 

Dairy Bacteriology. 
Farmers' Bulletin 42. Facts about Milk> 
Farmers' Bulletin 74. Milk as Food. 

General Observations 

Note (a) Color ; (b) Odor ; (c) Taste ; (d) Reaction 
(test with litmus paper). 

Note the general characteristics of the milk in bot- 
tles A, B, C, D, found on the supply, table, drawing 
conclusions as to freshness, richness, and adulteration. 

Experiment IS 

Specific Gravity of Milk 

Weigh I c of water carefully to tenths of a gram. 
Using the same cup for measuring, weigh also i c of 
milk. Compute the specific gravity of the milk, taking 
the weight of the water as unity. 

What conditions may affect the specific gravity of 
milk? 



1 8 Preparation of Food 

Experiment 16 

Composition of Milk 

Carefully remove and save the cream from the 
sample of milk furnished. Warm the skimmed milk 
to about 60°. Pour into a small bottle, and add acetic 
acid or vinegar, drop by drop, with shaking until the 
precipitate separates out well. Allow to stand until 
the precipitate settles, then filter and boil a portion 
of the filtrate. What is the precipitate which .forms 
in it on boiling.? What is the precipitate upon the 
filter .? What does the watery portion contain .? What 
food principle does the cream contain ^ 

Observe the product obtained from the evaporation 
of the watery portion of milk. What gives to milk its 
characteristic color.' 

Note the characteristics of commercial milk sugar. 
Note the composition of milk as shown by the exhibit 
in the bottles upon the side shelf. 

Compute the percentage of cream in the sample of 
milk shown in the creamometer. 

Experiment 17 

Pasteurization of Milk 

Nearly fill a clean bottle with fresh milk. Stopper 
with a clean cork or with a carefully rolled plug of 
clean cotton wool. Place the bottle in cold water, tak- 
ing care that the water does not reach the mouth of 
the bottle. Heat slowly until the water reaches a 
temperature of 70°. Remove from the fire, but keep 
closely covered for 30 minutes. Remove from water, 
cool quickly. Keep in a cool place. 



Laboratory Guide 19 

Why should pasteurized milk be used within 24 hours 
after treatment ? How does this process differ from 
sterilization of milk? 

Experiment 18 

Action of Rennet on Milk 
Junket 

Warm i c of milk to 37°. Add i tsp of sugar, a 
few drops of vanilla, and i of a rennet tablet dissolved in 
I tsp of water. Pour at once into a dish. When coagu- 
lated, cool and serve. What is rennet .■' Describe its 
effect upon milk. 

Experiment 19 

Repeat Experiment 18, heating the milk to 100°. 
Compare and explain results. 

Experiment 20 

1. Chill I c of thick cream and whip until stiff. 

2. Warm another portion and beat as above. Ex- 
plain the difference in results in (i) and (2). 

What is whipped cream .' 

Mousse (Demonstration) 

To the product from (i) add 2 tbsp of sugar and 
I tsp of flavoring. Freeze. 

Note proportions used in the freezing mixture, 
method of packing, serving, etc. 

Experiment 21 

Separation of Milk Fat. Butter (Demonstration) 

Beat I pint "ripened" cream with a fork or egg 
beater until the fat separates out in lumps. Collect 



20 Preparation of Food 

these into a mass. Remove to cold water and wash 
free from milk. Add i tbsp of salt, and cool. 

Record weight of butter obtained. 

How does the composition of butter differ from that 
of cream } What is the composition of buttermilk .? 

Experiment 22 

Take i c of thick sour milk. Note appearance and 
acidity. What has caused the curdling.? 

Pour milk in top of double boiler. Place in water 
at 75". Cover and let stand 15 minutes. What caused 
the coagulation 1 

Compare with coagulation effected in sweet milk by 
action of rennet. 

Cocoa 

Mix 2 tsp of cocoa and 2 tsp of sugar with 2 tbsp of 
water. Let it boil up once. Add to this i c of hot 
milk, stirring well. Keep hot. Just before serving mill 
it thoroughly with a Dover egg beater. 

Chocolate 

1. Cook i tsp of cornstarch in 2 tbsp of water. 
Add I tbsp of sugar, a little salt, and \ square of un- 
sweetened chocolate. When the chocolate has melted 
add gradually i c of hot milk, stirring well. Add a 
few drops of vanilla. Keep hot and mill before serving. 

Both chocolate and cocoa are improved by placing 
I tsp of slightly sweetened and flavored whipped cream 
on the top of each cup served. 

2. Repeat above preparation, omitting the starch. 
Compare cocoa, chocolate, and coffee as to cost per 

cup, disregarding all cream added in servino". 



Laboratory Guide 21 

EGGS 

References: Farmers' Bulletin 128 (Revised). Eggs 
and Their Uses as Food. 
Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 
Dietetics, Chapter IX. 

General Observations 

1. Note number of eggs of average size in one 
pound. Of large size. Weigh smaller eggs and note 
variation in number. Note difference in cost per pound, 
eggs at market price per dozen. 

Do you prefer to buy eggs by weight or number ? 
Why.? 

2. What causes variation in color of shell 1 Does 
color indicate variation in the composition or flavor of 

egg? 

Shell 

1. Examine inside of shell of an egg which has 
been boiled in a solution of cochineal. What property 
of the shell does this show .? What problem does this 
present in the keeping of eggs .? 

2. Place a small piece of shell in a little vinegar 
and warm. What can you say as to its ch'emical 
composition .' 

Tests for Freshness 

Test weight of eggs by placing in 10 percent salt 
solution. What relation can you suggest as existing 
between the freshness of an &%% and its specific gravity .? 

Note appearance of eggs when held in strong light. 
What may dark appearance indicate > 



22 Preparation of Food 

With what methods of preservation are you familiar ? 
(See Farmers' Bulletin 128 (Revised). Eggs and Their 
Uses as Food.) 

Inside Structure 

1. Skin. 

2. Position of white and yolk. 

3. Describe as to color and texture. 

• Experiment 23 

Effect of Heat upon White and Yolk of Egg 

Place I tsp of white of egg in one test tube. In a 
second tube place the same quantity of yolk of egg. 
Suspend the tubes in cold water, bringing the surface 
of the egg in the tubes a little below the level of the 
surface of the water. Heat the water carefully, noting : 

1. Temperature at which coagulation is first ap- 
parent. 

2. Temperature at which whole mass is coagulated. 

3. Consistency of the coagulated white at this 
temperature. 

4. Consistency of each when water reaches the 
boiling point. 

Experiment 24 

1. Place 3 eggs in 3 pints of boiling water. Cover 
closely to retain heat. Test i egg in 5 minutes, 
another in 7, and the third in 10, noting temperature 
at each test. 

2. Place I egg in i pint of cold water. Bring 
water to boiling point. Remove egg and test it. How 
does the result compare with that in (i) ? 



Laboratory Guide 23 

3. Place I egg in water at 75 to 80°. Keep water 
at this temperature for 45 minutes. Remove &gg and 
test. 

4. Place I egg in boiling water. Boil for 3 minutes. 
Remove and test. 

5 . Place I egg in boiling water and boil for 20 min- 
utes. Compare with result in (3). 

Poached Eggs 

Place I c of water in small frying pan. Bring to 
boil, add \ tsp of salt. Break an egg into a saucer and 
carefully slip it into a buttered muffin ring placed in the 
bottom of the frying pan. The water should cover the 
^%g. Place the pan where the water will keep hot with- 
out boiling, let stand until a white film has formed over 
the top of the Qgg and the white is firm (about 6 min- 
utes). With a buttered skimmer remove the egg and 
muffin ring to a piece of buttered toast and carefully 
lift off the ring. Season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Experiment 25 

1. Separate the white and yolk of an &gg. Beat 
each for 2 minutes with a wire egg beater. Note 
difference in results. 

2. Add about 5 grams of melted butter (a scant 
teaspoon) to the white of an egg. Beat as before. 
Explain result. 

Compare the composition of the white and yolk of 
egg. Does this suggest an explanation of the results 
in (I).? 

3. Use the yolk and well-beaten white in the 
making of an omelet, as follows : 



24 Preparation of Food 

Omelet 
I egg I tbsp water 

i tsp salt I tsp butter 

Pepper 
Separate white and yolk of ^gg. Add salt to each 
and pepper to yolk. Beat yolk until thick. Add water 
and mix well. Beat whites until stiff. Fold the yolk 
into the white. Melt the butter in omelet pan. Add 
the Qgg and cook at a low temperature. Place in hot 
oven to dry the top. Fold and turn onto hot platter. 
What property of proteid is illustrated in the pre- 
ceding preparation >. What is the effect of the special 
manipulation.? Would a preparation of yolks of eggs 
alone be light .? 

Experiment 26 

Egg as a Thickening Agent 

I. Soft Custard 

4 egg J c milk 

I tbsp sugar Flavoring 

Salt 
Stir egg and sugar together until blended. Heat 
the milk and add to the egg and sugar gradually until 
evenly mixed. Stir constantly. Cook until the custard 
coats the spoon. 

In what sort of a vessel should the milk be heated 
and the cooking of the custard accomplished .? At what 
temperature should eggs and milk be cooked ? Why } 

2. Repeat above preparation, but cook by boiling 
over the direct flame. 



Laboratory Guide 25 

3. Baked Custard 

First of the process same as in (i). After adding 
hot milk pour into custard cups. Bake in oven until 
firm. How shall proper temperature be secured ? 

Experiment 27 

Egg in a Leavened Preparation 
Sponge Cake 

4 eggs I c sugar 

I c flour 2 tbsp lemon juice 

i tsp salt 
Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick. Add 
sugar, lemon juice, and about \ of the flour. Beat until 
smooth. Fold this mixture together with the remainder 
of the flour into the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in 
ungreased pans. 

What should be the temperature of the oven 1 Why 
should this mixture be cooked at a higher temperature 
than that used in the cooking of custard } 



CHEESE 

Observe samples of commercial cheese, noting 
characteristics of each brand. 

Experiment 28 

1 . Heat a small piece of cheese in a hot frying pan 
until it melts, taking care that it does not burn. Cool 
and note results. 

2. Melt a similar piece, using a double boiler. 
Compare with (i). 



26 Preparation of Food 

What are the chief food constituents of cheese? 
Which of these is most affected by heat ? 

Cheese Dishes 

Ilkistrate suitable temperatures for cooking a com- 
bination of milk, eggs, and cheese by the following 
preparations : 

I . J c stale bread crumbs 2 tbsp finely divided 
i c milk cheese 

I tsp butter i tsp egg 

Salt A few grains cayenne 

Soak bread crumbs in milk 15 minutes. Melt but- 
ter, add cheese. When cheese has melted add soaked 
crumbs, egg slightly beaten, and seasonings. Cook 
3 minutes and pour over toasted crackers. 

2. Welsh Rarebit 

I oz cheese \ tsp butter 

I tbsp cream A pinch of soda 

I tsp beaten egg Salt and pepper 
Melt the butter, add the finely divided cheese, soda, 

salt, pepper, and finally the egg diluted with the cream. 

Stir all well until smooth and creamy. Serve on bread 

lightly buttered or on toast. 

3. Cheese Souffle 

i tbsp butter i tbsp finely divided 

2 tsp flour cheese 

i c scalded milk \ egg 

Salt Cayenne 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed add 
gradually scalded milk. When the mixture has boiled 



Laboratory Guide 27 

up thoroughly add salt, cayenne, and cheese, remove 
from fire, add well-beaten yolks of eggs, and stir until 
smooth. Cool the mixture, then fold in the whites of 
the eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into a buttered dish 
and bake 20 minutes. At what temperature t Will 
the flour be sufficiently cooked ? 

Cheese Crackers 

Sprinkle grated cheese thinly over crackers. Season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Place in the oven until 
the crackers are crisp. 

How does the temperature used in this preparation 
compare with temperatures used in the other cheese 
dishes.? Defend the use of a high temperature in this 
case. What can you say as to the digestibility of 
cheese dishes in general .? 



Food Equivalents 

Total Nutrients 

Using data given in Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment 
Stations : 

1. Weigh out a sufficient quantity of cheese to 
equal a quart of milk in total nutrients. 

2. Determine the weight and number of eggs re- 
quired to equal the above. 

3. Compare the cost of total nutrients as obtained 
from these three food materials. 

4. Estimate nutritive value of the small sponge 
cake. 



2 8 Preparation of Food 

MEAT 

References: Bulletin 162. U. S. Dep't of Agri., Office 

of Experiment Stations. The Influence 

of Cooking upon the Nutritive Value of 

Meats. 

Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 

Dietetics, Chapter IV. 
Farmers' Bulletin 34. Meats : Composi- 
tion and Cooking. 
Farmers' Bulletin 85. Fish as Food. 
Farmers' Bulletin 182. Poultry as Food. 
Make reference drawings of the charts showing the 
cutting of meat, recording the suggested uses for each 
cut. 

Note similarities of cuts of meat from the different 
animals. 

Structure of Meat 

General Observations 

1. Observe the gross structure of different cuts of 
meat. 

2. Observe structure of lean meat as shown in an 
uncooked portion and in boiled mgat. Make drawings 
of a longitudinal and cross-section of muscle. 

3. Make drawings of cross-section and of longi- 
tudinal section of muscle as seen under the microscope 
(Stained sections.) 

4. Observe structure of fatty tissue. 

Experiment 29 

I . Take a piece of meat cut from a leg of beef. 
{a) Reserve one third. 



Laboratory Guide 29 

{b) With a dull knife scrape out the soft part 
from the remainder, shaping it into a cake. 

{c) Make a similar cake of the fibrous part 
remaining. 

(d) Cook the three samples in a hot frying pan, 
turning them frequently to prevent burning. 
Compare the three and explain differences. 
Compare with a piece of similar meat which has 
been cooked in water until tender. 

2. Repeat processes outlined in (i), but using 
meat cut from the tenderloin. 

3. Compare results in (i) and (2) and explain. 

Experiment 30 

Composition of Meat 

1. Cook a piece of beef containing a large amount 
of connective tissue in sufficient water to cover it. When 
the meat begins to fall apart remove from the water and 
cool. 

What constituent of the meat has partially or wholly 
disappeared .■' Cool the broth and place it near ice until 
it is thoroughly chilled. Explain its consistency. What 
are the small particles seen in it .' 

2. Repeat process in (i), using a piece of beef con- 
taining a relatively small amount of connective tissue. 

Compare (i) and (2), noting appearance of the cooked 

meat and consistency of the cold broth. Note the taste 

of both. 

Experiment 31 

I . Take about 40 grams of finely minced lean beef. 

(a) Reserve about 5 grams, forming it into 

a cake. 



30 Preparation of Food 

{b) Stir the remainder up well for several min- 
utes with i c of cold water. Strain through cheese cloth. 
Add a second portion of water and repeat the treatment 
until the meat has lost most of its color. 

{c) Press the water out, reserving the dry meat. 

{d) Reserve one-fourth of the water extract. 
Note reaction. 

{e) Heat the remainder, carefully noting the 
temperature : 

(i) At which small white flakes begin to 
appear. 

(2) When a heavy precipitate appears. 

(3) When the red color disappears. 
Continue the heating until the liquid boils. Strain 

through cheese cloth. Wash the precipitate on the 
cloth with a little water, but do not add the washings 
to the filtrate. Compare above temperature with tem- 
peratures noted in work with other foods studied. 

2. (a) Pan broil a portion of the extracted meat, 
noting odor and taste. 

(b) Taste the washed precipitate from the water 
extract. 

{c) Taste the clear broth. Which of the above 
has the most characteristic flavor ^ 

(d) Pan broil the reserved sample (a) in part i 
of this experiment. Note odor and taste. Pour a little 
of the reserved sample (d), part i, into a hot frying pan 
and note the odor. Do the same with some of the clear 
cooked broth. What constituents seem to give to meat 
its characteristic flavor .' What can you say as to the 
nutritive value of the dry meat and of the precipitate 



Laboratory Guide 31 

which formed in the broth on boiling? Would this 
broth gelatinize on cooling ? Why ? What can you 
say as to the dietetic value of flavor in food ? 

Experiment 32 

1 . {a) Place 3 or 4 ounces of lean beef in the top 
of the double boiler in just sufficient water to cover it. 
Place over cold water, and heat, cooking 30 minutes 
from the time the water boils in the lower part of the 
boiler. 

{b) Duplicate the above arrangement, but have 
the water boiling when the meat is added. See to it 
that every part of the surface of the meat is covered 
instantly by the water ; cook for 30 minutes. 

{c) Remove the pieces of meat; and pour the 
broths into suitable dishes for comparison. Is there 
a marked difference between the two .? Explain. Is 
there a marked difference in the flavor of the two 
pieces of meat ? Compare with original weight and 
compute percentage of loss. What are some of the 
constituents lost by cooking meat according to each of 
these methods .■• 

2. (a) Sear a small piece of lean beef quickly on 
all sides in a hot frying pan. Cook 3 minutes. 

{b) Place a similar piece in a cold frying pan 
and heat slowly for 5 minutes without turning, then 
turn and finish the cooking. Remove the meat and 
add i c of water to each pan. Heat the water, stirring 
well until all the dried juices adhering to the pans are 
taken up by the water. Compare the washings from 
the two pans. 



32 Preparation of Food 

What constituents may be lost in part by even the 
most careful pan broiling ? Account for the difference 
in flavor between meat which has been cooked in water 
and that which has been broiled. In which of these 
experiments have you made beef tea? In which beef 
extract ? How is beef juice prepared ? 

Preparation of Tender Meat 

Explain use of terms tender and tough as applied 
to meat. What are the objects in cooking tender meat ? 
Outline the effect of each step in the process of broiling 
and roasting. 

Broiled Steak 

See that the steak is cut at least li inches in 
thickness. Wipe clean with a damp cloth and trim off 
excess of fat. Broil over live coals or under gas, turn- 
ing each half minute for 3 minutes, after which com- 
plete the cooking at a lower temperature, turning every 
minute or two. The total time required varies from 
8 to 20 minutes, according to the thickness of the 
steak and the degree of cooking desired. 

Remove to a hot platter and salt evenly. A little 
salt previously sprinkled over the bottom of the dish 
will season the under side of the steak. SerVe with 
any sauce liked, but avoid masking the flavor of the 
meat itself by the addition of stronger ones. 

Do the drippings from a properly broiled steak 
afford material for a well-flavored gravy .? Why .? 

What cuts of beef are regarded as tender.? How 
lower the temperature when using gas.? When using 



Laboratory Guide 33 

a coal fire? Describe the difference in color of rare 
meat and that which is underdone (raw). 

Beef Roast (Ribs) 

What rib or ribs are most desirable for a roast ? 

See that the meat selected is clean. Trim off any 
ragged portions, but do not remove the fat. Place on 
a rack in the pan, arranging to have the larger cut 
surfaces exposed to the direct heat of the oven. The 
part with the greatest surface of fat should be placed 
uppermost, so that the melting fat will accomplish the 
basting. 

Place in a hot oven — 250° — maintaining this 
temperature for 15 to 20 minutes, after which the heat 
should be lowered to about 190° and the roasting con- 
tinued, allowing from 1 5 to 30 minutes for each pound, 
according to shape of the cut and the degree of cooking 
desired. 

A thermometer may be inserted in the center of the 
roast and the inner temperature noted. 

What is the lowest temperature at which the meat 
could be termed cooked.' What is the highest tem- 
perature at which it may still be regarded as rare.' 
What temperature indicates that it is well done, i. e., 
has lost all red color.? What was the percentage of 
loss in weight in the roast used.' What are the ap- 
parent constituents of the drippings .? What are the 
unavoidable losses under the conditions of the cooking .' 
Are broiling and oven roasting comparable processes .' ■ 
What is true roasting.' What is pan broiling? 



34 Preparation of Food 

Preparation of Tough Meat 

1 . What must be accomplished in the preparation 

of tough meat if the results are to be satisfactory ? Is 

the process outlined in Experiment 29 a practicable one 

for the housekeeper ? Suggest circumstances where 

it might be useful. What is the difference between 

scraped meat and that which has been chopped, ground, 

or pounded ? 

Hamburg Steak 

Prepare the meat by removing gristle and either 
chopping or grinding it. If meat is lean add some suet 
or other fat (about ^. Season and shape into cakes 
about i of an inch in thickness. Pan broil (8 to 10 
minutes), turning frequently. 

Beef Loaf 

Prepare meat as above. Shape into a loaf. Place 
small pieces of fat meat on top to accomplish the bast- 
ing and cook in the oven, following in general the 
directions given for the rib roast. 

What difference may be expected between the above 
preparations and a tender steak or roast .? 

2. In Experiment 30 what was accomplished in the 
cooking of sample (i)? From your previous experi- 
ments with the constituents of meat what temperature 
would you suggest as likely to afford the best results 
in the long cooking-.'' 

Brown Stew 

Cut lean beef into inch cubes (neck beef will be 
found quite satisfactory). Season each piece, dredge 



Laboratory Guide 35 

thoroughly with flour, and brown on all sides in a fry- 
ing pan, using a little suet to prevent sticking and to 
give necessary fat. Add sufficient hot water to cover 
the meat, and when this has boiled up once, turn all 
into a double boiler and cook for 3 hours. One hour 
before the stew is finished add any vegetables hked, 
cutting these also into cubes. {Exception. — Potatoes 
require a less time for cooking.) 

Pot Roast 

1. Sear a cut of beef (3 to 4 lbs. of a shoulder cut) 
in an iron kettle, using suet as above. Season, and add 
\ c water. Arrange to carry on the cooking slowly for 
4 or 5 hours, adding water from time to time if necessary. 

2. Sear and season meat as above, but do not add 
water. Transfer to a double boiler and finish the 
cooking. Compare the two methods as to conven- 
ience. Explain any differences in results. 

Veal 

What are the chief differences between beef and 
veal 1 What methods used in the cooking of beef are 
entirely unsuited to the preparation of veal 1 Why .? 

Veal Cutlets 

Cut veal steak into portions of uniform size and 
shape, or use veal chops. Pound each piece lightly. 
Season with salt and pepper, re-shape, dip in beaten 
egg, a.nd cover with bread crumbs. Saute, turning 
often until browned and well done (about 8 minutes). 

Is the coating of egg more efficient than simply sear- 



36 Preparation of Food 

ing the surface of the meat ? Compute difference in cost 
of edible portion of rib chops and of cutlets from round 
steaks. 

Pork 

What is an important essential in the cooking of 

pork ? 

Broiled Chops 

Broil chops, either mutton, lamb, or pork, following 
in general the directions given for broiling steak. Why 
should these not be served rare .? 

Poultry 
Chicken 

1 . Roast. 

2. Fried. Demonstration. 

3. Fricassee. 

Note weight of fowl before and after it is drawn 
and compute increase in price per pound. 

Types of Cured Meat 

What are the inevitable effects of the use of salt in 
the permanent preservation of meat } Compare with 
smoking and drying. 

In the cooking of cured meats is it possible or desir- 
able to remove all traces of the preserving agent .' 

Corned Beef 

Select a piece of beef having a good proportion of 
fat. Wash well in plenty of cold water. Place in a 
large-sized vessel, cover with cold water, bring gradu- 



Laboratory Guide 37 

ally to the simmering point. If it is suspected that the 

brine used in the curing was very strong, this water 

may be drained off and replaced by fresh water of 

about the same temperature. Continue the simmering 

for 5 or 6 hours. Let cool in the water in which it 

was cooked. Why .? Afterwards drain well, slice very 

thin and serve. 

Boiled Ham 

Process essentially the same as outlined above for 

corned beef. 

Bacon 

Pan broil thin slices of bacon until crisp. Drain off 
the fat well before serving. 

What can you say as to the digestibility of bacon } 
Why is no effort made to remove the traces of the 
preservatives used "i Compare with dried beef. 

Salted Fish (Mackerel or White Fish) 

Wash the fish free from salt in plenty of cold water. 
Allow to soak in fresh water for some hours (6 to 10). 
Place in a pan of cold water, bring to the sfmmering 
point, and cook for 15 minutes. Drain carefully, sea- 
son well with butter and serve hot, or an egg sauce 

may be used. 

Egg Sauce 

3 tbsp butter i c milk or water 

I tbsp flour Salt and pepper 

2 eggs boiled hard 
Heat the butter in a saucepan until it bubbles ; 
stir in the flour, mixing thoroughly ; add milk, salt and 
pepper. Let boil up well, remove from the fire, and stir 
in the eggs cut into quarters. Pour over the fish. 



38 Prefaratioti of Food 

Codfish Balls 

I c of salt codfish cut small. Remove all skin and 
bones and wash well in cold water. Add to the fish 
an equal quantity of raw potato cut small. Cover with 
boiling water and cook until potatoes are done. Drain 
dry and mash fine. Add i tsp butter and whites of 
2 eggs. Fry in small portions. Drain well. 

Left-Overs 

What is the chief object sought for in preparation 
of dishes from food materials remaining from their first 
serving.? What principle should guide in determining 
the manner of utilizing these materials .■' What must 
be avoided in the second cooking of meat .'' What can 
you say as to the digestibility of so-called made dishes ? 
Why can no definite recipes be formulated for the use 
of left-overs .? 

Experiment 33 

From suggestions obtained from your own experi- 
ence, from cook books, or from the instructor, devise 
four ways for utilizing cold cooked beef. Record all 
extra food materials and seasonings used. Suggest 
cases in which the left-over itself may be utilized as' 
a seasoning. Determine if the results are worth the 
extra materials, the time, and the fuel used. 

CONSOMMli 

Use the broth from meats as the foundation of a 
clear soup. What is the chief dietetic value of this 
preparation ? 



Laboratory Guide 39 

Fish 
Experiment 34 

Place a small piece of fish in boiling water and boil 
rapidly for 15 minutes. Compare with the results 
which would be obtained from a similar treatment of 
beef. What is suggested as to the structure and 
composition of fish .'' 

Boiled Fish 

Place fish on wire rack, and lower into boiling 
water to which has been added i tsp salt and i tbsp 
vinegar for each quart of water. Simmer for 15 min- 
utes. Drain. Serve with an acid sauce. 

Baked Fish 

" Clean, sprinkle with salt and pepper inside and 
out, stuff, and truss. Brush over with melted butter 
and dredge with flour. Place small pieces of salt pork 
over the fish and bake i i hours, having the oven very 
hot (275°) for the first 15 minutes, lowering to about 
200° for the remainder of the time. Baste occasionally 
if needed. Serve with HoUandaise sauce." 

Compare with veal steak as to cost of proteid. 
How do the time per pound for roasting and the oven 
temperatures compare with those used for beef roast } 

Fish Stuffing 

" 3 c of bread crumbs 2 eggs 

1 tsp chopped parsley i tsp each salt and pepper 

2 tsp chopped onion (or i c butter 

I tsp onion juice) 
"Moisten the crumbs with the butter melted in a 



40 Preparation of Food 

little hot water. Add the seasoning and lastly the 
eggs well beaten." 

HOLLANDAISE SaUCE 

" i c butter Few grains cayenne pepper 

Yolks of 2 to 4 eggs i c boiling water 
\ tsp salt Juice of \ lemon - 

" Cream the butter ; add the yolks of the eggs one 
at a time and beat into the butter thoroughly ; add the 
salt, cayenne, and water, and cook in double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the sauce thickens ; then add 
the lemon juice and remove from the fire. The num- 
ber of yolks depends upon the consistency desired in 
the sauce ; lift the saucepan from the water, from time 
to time, lest the sauce be overcooked." 



GELATIN 

Experiment 35 

Prepare soup stock from a knuckle of veal. Cool. 
Note consistency. 

To Clarify Soup Stock 

Remove fat from veal stock. Heat the latter care- 
fully, and clarify by mixing with white of egg and 
bringing quickly to boiling point. Strain. Season and 
serve. 

Note. — Use lean veal from the soup bone in making of cro- 
quettes, formulating a method and giving temperature of fat for 
frying. 



Laboratory Guide 41 

Experiment 36 

1. Cover 1 tsp of gelatin with cold water and let 
stand 10 minutes. 

2. Cover I tsp of gelatin with hot water. 

3. Carefully heat mixture (i). 

4. Cool (3). 

5. When (3) begins to stiffen beat with Dover 
egg beater. 

Carefully note results of each of the processes above. 

Compare each with effect of similar process upon 

albumin. 

Experiment 37 

Kinds of Commercial Gelatins 

Take 2 grams each of gelatins on supply table. 
Soak each in 4 tbsp of cold water. Dissolve. Cool and 
note results as to odor, color, taste, consistency, and cost. 

Experiment 38 

1 . Soak i tsp of gelatin in i tbsp of water. Dis- 
solve I tbsp of sugar in enough hot water to make 
i cup. Add soaked gelatin. Continue heating gently 
until gelatin dissolves. Cool and set on ice. 

2. Same as (i), but use i tbsp of lemon juice as 
part of the liquid. 

3. Same as (i), but use i tbsp of fresh grated pine- 
apple. 

4. Same as (i), but use i tbsp of canned pineapple. 
Compare results and explain. What is the nutritive 

value of gelatin .■■ What is its chief value in the 
preparation of food.' 

From material used above prepare a small pudding, 
also formulate a recipe on the basis of a quart of liquid. 



42 Preparation of Food 

FATS AND OILS 

References : Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Leffmann and Beam. Food Analysis. 
Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 
Dietetics. 

Types of Commercial Fats and Oils 

Observe the samples shown of some of the more 
common fats and oils, noting source, physical charac- 
teristics, composition, price, and use. 

1. Compare butter, butterine, and oleomargarine, 
verifying the following test for their identification : 

" Spoon Test " 

Place a small portion (about .5 gram) of the sample 
to be tested in a tablespoon and melt over a small 
flame. "Then, increasing the heat, bring to as brisk 
a boil as possible, and after the boiling has begun, stir 
the contents of the spoon thoroughly, not neglecting the 
outer edges, two or three times at intervals during 
the boiling, always shortly before the boiling ceases. 

"Oleomargarine and renovated butter boil noisily, 
sputtering (more or less) like a mixture of grease and 
water when boiled, and produce no foam, or but very 
little. Renovated butter produces usually a very small 
amount. 

"Genuine butter boils usually with less noise, and 
produces an-, abundance of foam'' 

2. Preparation of fat from fatty tissues. "Ren- 
dering." 



Laboratory Guide 43 

Weigh fat from beef or pork and cut into small 
pieces. Heat slowly over a low flame until the fat 
separates out and the connective tissue remaining be- 
gins to brown slightly. Drair through cheese cloth, 
pressing well to obtain as much as possible of the 
clear fat. Cool and weigh. Compare cost per pound 
with cost of commercial fats. 
3. Note appearance of lard : 
(«) Heated to 175-180°. 
{b) Heated to 1 80° for 30 minutes. 
(c) Heated to 275" 
Suggest possible chemical changes in each. 
What does (b) suggest as to effect of household 
conditions upon fat used for frying.? 

Clarifying Fat 

Heat the fat, add a few slices of raw potato, letting 
them fry until they begin to brown. Pour the fat slowly 
through suitable strainer, rejecting the settlings. 

Explain the scorching of fat. Are the processes of 
clarifying chemical or physical.? 

Experiment 39 

Fats in Combination 

1 . Melt I tbsp of fat in a frying pan. Add to it 
I tbsp of flour, mixing well. When thoroughly mixed, 
but not browned, add i c of hot water and let boil up 

once. 

2. Melt I tbsp of fat in i c of water. When boil- 
ing add i tbsp of flour. 

Explain the difference between (i) and (2). 



44 Preparatiofi of Food 

Experiment 40 

Mix I tsp of fat thoroughly with 3 tsp of flour. 
Form into a cake and bake. Explain the condition 
of the preparation. 

Note the directions for the making of puff paste as 
given in any good cook book and explain the necessity 
for the special manipulation. 

Pie Crust 

Mix I measure of cold fat with 3 measures of flour, 
add a little salt, then make into a dough with the least 
possible amount of cold water (i measure or less). Do 
not knead it or in any way attempt to have it perfectly 
smooth. Roll out about ^ of an inch thick, line a pie 
pan with this, trim off the edges and bake at a tem- 
perature which will insure its being a light brown in 
10 minutes. Fill with any cream mixture liked. 

Lemon Cream Filling 

" I c sugar 2 c boiling water 

5 tbsp flour. Cornstarch 2 egg yolks 

may be used instead of i tsp butter 

flour' (more or less i") i lemon, juice and grated 

rind 
"Mix the sugar, flour, butter, and lemon, add the 
hot water and let boil up. Place in double boiler and 
cook 10 minutes. [When shall the egg be added.?] 
Fill into the crust and cover with a meringue made 
of the whites of the eggs and 4 tbsp of sugar. Brown 
lightly in the oven," 



Laboratoiy Guide 45 

Frying 

Development of Flavor 

Prepare a plain doughnut mixture as given below. 
Bake a part of this and fry the remainder. Compare 
as to flavor and texture. 

Doughnuts 

I c sugar ' I c sour milk 

I egg I tbsp melted fat 

i tsp soda I tsp baking powder 

Salt Flavoring 

Flour (note amount) 
Put the sugar, fat, beaten Qgg, milk, salt, and flavor- 
ing into the mixing bowl. Add the soda to this mix- 
ture, and stir in immediately i c of the flour to which 
the baking powder has been added. Finally, stir in 
enough more flour to make a stiff dough. Roll out 
i inch thick and cut in suitable shapes. 

Saratoga Potatoes 

Pare potatoes of medium size ; slice very thin into 
cold water. Let stand until crisp. Dry and fry quickly. 
Drain well and sprinkle with fine salt. Examine the 
water in which the potatoes were soaked. What food 
constituent has been largely wasted.? 

Compare with boiled potato as to percentage com- 
position. 

Salmon Croquettes 

Suggest the materials which must be added to 
cooked salmon in order that it may be handled and 
cooked as croquettes. Prepare and serve. 



46 Preparation of Food 

Salad Dressings 
I. French Dressing 

« 2 tbsp vinegar \ tsp salt 

6 tbsp oil \ tsp pepper 

Few grains of paprika 
" Mix together salt, pepper, and oil. Add acid 
slowly and beat until an emulsion is formed." 

2. Mayonnaise 

" I egg yolk I tbsp lemon juice 

i tsp salt I tbsp vinegar 

I c oil i tsp mustard (if desired) 

Few grains red pepper 
" Mix together egg yolk and condiments. Add 
portion of lemon juice and when well blended add the 
oil, drop by drop, beating constantly. After the mix- 
ture thickens add alternately the remainder of the acid 
and oil." 

Explain the nature of these two products. Use 
them in the making of suitable salads. 

BREAD 

Short Process 

J cake compressed yeast ^ i c water (or equal quan- 

I tsp sugar titles of milk and water) 

I tsp butter i tsp salt 

3 c flour 

Have the water lukewarin (about 37°). Soak the 

yeast cake in one-half of it until thoroughly dissolved- 

1 In order to secure rapid fermentation an entire cake of yeast may 
be used in the laboratory work. 



Laboratory Guide 47 

Pour remainder of water over the salt, butter, and sugar 
in the mixing bowl. Add flour to make a soft dough, 
place on board, and knead until smooth and elastic to 
the touch. Place in bowl in a warm place (about 37°) 
and let rise until double its original bulk. Shape into 
loaf, place in bread pan, and let rise at same temper- 
ature. When light bake from 40 to 50 minutes. 
Temperature of oven should range from 410 to 375° F. 
What are the proteids of flour .■• How may they be 
separated from the flour .? Compare them with other 
forms of proteid studied. What is yeast .? What is 
the effect upon yeast of low temperature.? Of high 
temperature .? Discuss different forms of yeast. 



DEMONSTRATION 

Present to the class some phase of the work done 
during the course, illustrating the principles involved 
by a suitable demonstration. 



SECOND SEMESTER (COURSE VI) 
ECONOMIC USES OF FOOD 

PRESERVATION OF FOODi 

References : Prudden. Story of the Bacteria. 

Farmers' Bulletin 125. Protection of Food 

from Injurious Temperatures. 
Farmers' Bulletin 203. Canned Fruit, 

Preserves, and Jellies. 

Experiment 41 

Pare ripe peaches and slice them on six evaporating 
dishes. 

1 . Expose at room temperature. 

2. Cover fruit thickly with 

ground spice. 

3. Cover with sugar. 

4. Cover with salt. 

5. Place in refrigerator. 

6. Carefully dry sample for 30 minutes in moderate 
oven or hot sun's rays. Leave exposed in room. 

Examine samples after 48 hours. 

Experiment 42 

Repeat Experiment 41, using ripe tomatoes instead 
of peaches. Compare results with those obtained in 
Experiment 41 and explain differences. 

1 For preservation of animal foods see Course I. 
48 



Expose as in (i). 



Laboratory Guide 49 

Experiment 43 

Place slices of fruit in small bottles. 

1 . Cover with water. 

2. Cover with alcohol. 

3. Cover with vinegar. 

4. Cover with syrup made by boiling 3 tbsp of 
sugar in 2 tbsp water. 

5 . Cover with water ; place cork in loosely ; stand 
bottle in steamer and heat for 30 minutes. Fit cork in 
tightly and seal. Examine samples at end of a week. 

Give results and explain principles illustrated by 
these experiments. 

Classify causes of decomposition in fruit. 
Define sterilization. 

Application of Sterilization 

Canning Peaches 

Prepare peaches by paring and dividing into halves. 

1 . Place prepared fruit in cans ; cover with syrup 
made by using 2 parts sugar to 4 parts water. Adjust 
covers loosely. Steam until tender, filling in more syrup 
if necessary. Seal. 

2. Same as (i), but using water instead of syrup. 

3. Place prepared fruit in boiling syrup in open 
vessel. .Cook until clear, fill into sterilized cans and 
seal. 

Keep a record of the amount of fruit (as purchased) 
used in filling each can. Compute cost of fruit, sugar, 
can, and estimate cost of gas consumed. 

Examine samples after 2 or 3 months, comparing the 



50 Preparation of Food- 

results of the three methods. Test effect of light on 
canned goods. 

Compare also with commercial canned peaches both 
as to quality and cost. 

Canning Tomatoes 

1. Scald and remove skins and core from ripe 
tomatoes (about 2 lbs) ; cut in quarters and cook 
IS minutes in their own juice. Dip them from the 
juice and fill into the jars. Seal. 

2. Prepare tomatoes (i lb) as in (i), but do not 
quarter them. Place them in the jars, pressing them 
down carefully. Fill jar with strained tomato juice 
(left from (i)); steam 30 minutes. Seal. 

Tomato Juice 

Wash ripe tomatoes, remove core, and cut into small ' 
pieces. Cook until thoroughly softened ; rub through a 
sieve or colander to remove skins and seeds. Re-heat ; 
fill into jars and seal. 

Grape Juice 

Wash the grapes and pick from the stems (i pt). 
Add one-half the quantity of water and boil until seeds 
separate from pulp. Strain out juice and add one- 
fourth as much sugar as juice. Boil again and seal 
in jars or bottles. 

Prolonged Sterilization 
Canned Beans 
Prepare green beans (| lb for pint jar) by washing 
well and removing the tips of the pods and the strings. 



Laboratory Guide 51 

Break into pieces about | inch in length. Place in cans 
(pint), filling can up with water to which has been added 
2 tsp of salt. Adjust covers loosely and steam 4 hours. 
Seal. 

Corn 

Select perfect corn ; free from silk, cut from the 
cob, and place in can, taking care to have the can full. 
Adjust covers and steam 4 hours. Seal. 

Use of Preservatives (Spices) 

Tomato Catsup 

I gal tomato juice i oz whole pepper corns 
I qt cider vinegar 1 oz whole allspice 
I lb brown sugar 4 oz whole cloves 

4 oz salt \ oz whole ginger 

I oz ground mustard 
Add the other ingredients to the tomato juice, tying 
the whole spices in a piece of cheese cloth. Simmer for 
li hours. Bottle. 

Pear Pickle 

Pare the fruit and cut into halves or quarters. If 
very hard steam until tender. Cook until clear in syrup 
made of i pt of vinegar, 3 lb of sugar, with spices to suit 
taste. Skim out fruit and place in jars. Boil the syrup 
until reduced to its original volume and pour over fruit. 

Crabapple Jelly 

I. Wash apples (i lb), remove stem and blossom 
end, and cut in quarters. Add one-half as much water 
as fruit. Boil until soft. Mash, pour into jelly bag 



52 Preparation of Food 

and let drip. Measure the juice, add an equal amount 
of sugar, and boil until a jelly is formed when a small 
portion is cooled on a plate. Pour into hot jelly glasses. 
When the jelly is set, cover with paraffin. (The re- 
mainder of the juice may be squeezed from the bag 
and be made into second quality jelly or added to the 
apple butter.) 

2. Vary this experiment by using beet sugar. 

Fruit Butter 

Rub the cooked apples remaining from the jelly 
through a colander to remove skins and seeds. Add 
to this pulp any juice remaining from the jelly-making. 
Use sugar in the proportion of 2 parts sugar to 3 parts 
pulp, with ground spices as liked. Cook until a glaze 
forms upon the surface of a few drops when cooled upon 
a plate. Put away in jelly glasses or jars. 

Preservation by Drying 

Pare fruit of good flavor. Cut into quarters or 
eighths, according to size of fruit. Remove cores care- 
fully and place the fruit to dry upon a plate over boil- 
ing water. Turn the fruit several times during first 

2 hours. Continue the drying over steam for from 

3 to 5 hours, then place fruit loosely in a cheese cloth 
bag and hang in a current of air, stirring the contents 
of the bag occasionally until thoroughly dry. Pack 
in boxes. What constituents of the fruit have been 
affected by the drying.? 



Laboratory Guide 5 3 

CARBOHYDRATES 

References: Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 
Dietetics, Chapters X, XI, XH, XHI, 
XIV, XV. 

Farmers' Bulletin 249. Cereal Breakfast 
Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 73. Losses in the Cook- 
ing of Vegetables. 

Farmers' Bulletin 93. Sugar as Food. 

Farmers' Bulletin 112. Bread and the 
Principles of Breadmaking. 

Farmers' Bulletin 256. Preparation of 
Vegetables for the Table. 

Study of Typical Forms 

Glucoses or f Glucose, dextrose, grape sugar. 

Monosaccharids [ Fructose, levulose, fruit sugar. 

Sucrose, cane sugar. 

Lactose, milk sugar. 

Maltose, malt sugar. 

Starch. 

Dextrin. 

Glycogen. 

Cellulose. 



Saccharoses or 
Disaccharids 

Amyloses or 
Polysaccharids 



Experiment 44 

Physical Properties 

Examine as to (a) color ; (J?) form ; {c) taste. 

1. Cane sugar 4. Starch 

2. Milk S- Dextrin 

3. Glucose 6. Cellulose 



54 Preparation of Food 

(a) On dried fruit 

(i>) Commercial glucose 

Experiment 45 

Effect of Heat 

1 . Heat i tsp of sugar in test tube, noting changes. 

2. Heat 4 tsp of starch in test tube, noting changes. 
Compare (2) with sample of dextrin. 
Thoroughly masticate a piece of cracker, noting taste. 

Toast the remainder. Taste again. Explain. 

Experiment 46 

Chemical Reactions 

1 . To I tsp of glucose add a few drops of CUSO4 
and of KOH. Boil. 

2. To J tsp of starch add iodine (very dilute). 

3. I tsp of cane sugar (dissolved). 
{a) Test as in (i). 

{b) Test as in (2). 

4. Sucrose to glucose. 

{a) To I tsp of sugar solution add a few drops 
of H3SO4. Boil. Test for invert sugar. 

{b) To I tsp of sugar solution add -^ tsp of 
cream of tartar. Test as in {a). 

5. Starch to glucose. 

To I tsp of starch add a few drops of H^SO^. 
Boil ; test. 

6. Cellulose to glucose. (Demonstration). 



Laboratory Guide 55 

Cane Sugar 
Experiment 47 

Solubility 

1. i c of cane sugar add cold water to dissolve. 

2. J c of cane sugar add hot water to dissolve. 
Record amount of water necessary in each case. 

Experiment 48 

Crystallization 

Mix (i) and (2) above and add i tbsp of water. 
Divide into three portions, A, B, and C. 

1. Boil (A) 5 minutes. Pour in bottle and let stand. 

2. To (B) add 4 tsp of one of the acids suggested 
above. Boil 5 minutes, pour into 2-oz. bottle and let 
stand. 

3. To (C) add 25 percent glucose and boil as in 
(A) and (B). Let stand. Explain results. 

Experiment 49 

Effect of Heat on Cane Sugar 

1. Place i c of sugar in an omelet pan, and stir 
constantly over a moderate fire until melted. 

{a) Remove i tsp quickly to a cool plate. 
Product = barley sugar. 

(b) Continue heating remainder until it becomes 
a light brown color. Cool a little of this and compare 
with {a) as to taste and texture. 

Add i c of water to {b) and boil to a syrup. 
Bottle for use. 

2. Boiling. Dissolve i c of sugar in J c of water. 
(Solutions remaining from Experiment 47 may be used.) 



56 Preparation of Food 

Boil carefully, arranging to note the temperature at 
which the syrup : 

(a) Forms a thread when dropped from the 
spoon. 

(b) Forms a soft ball when dropped into cold 
water. 

{c) Hardens to a brittle mass in cold water. 
(d) Turns to a light brown. 
Arrange also to remove a portion (about i tbsp) to 
a small dish at each stage of the heating. 

Compare the different products, and suggest uses 

for each. 

Applications 

Syrup 

Take i c of sugar. Dissolve in water and heat to 
boiling, noting the amount of water required to make 
a syrup of proper consistency for table use. Record 
amount of syrup. 

Note. — Flavor the syrup with a little caramel and ■ bring it to 
a comparable consistency with the sample of commercial table syrup 
upon supply table. 

Compare as to flavor and cost. 

Determine the minimum of glucose jrequired to pre- 
vent crystallization for one week in the syrup prepared. 

Peanut Brittle 

Heat J c of granulated sugar in an omelet pan 
over a low flame, stirring constantly until it is melted 
to a syrup. Remove from fire, add quickly J c of 
chopped peanut kernels, and pour at once into a warm 
buttered pan. 



Laboratory Guide 57 

Fondant 

1. Dissolve i c of sugar in i c of water. Add 
Jg tsp of cream of tartar. Boil to soft ball stage, tak- 
ing care that the syrup does not form crystals on the 
side of the pan. Let stand till cool, then beat with 
spoon to a soft, creamy mass. Remove from the sauce- 
pan and mold with the hands. Place in a bowl ; cover 
bowl closely, and let stand until the next laboratory 
period. 

2. Use I tsp of glucose instead of the cream of 
tartar. The other ingredients and the manipulation 
same as in (i). 

3. Same as (i) and (2), but omitting both cream 
of tartar and glucose. 

Test the sugar used in (3) and also the resulting 
mass for invert sugar. Explain. 

Cream Mints 

Melt fondant (i), (2), or (3) over hot water, and 
flavor with a few drops of essence of peppermint. (Be 
careful not to use too much.) 

Drop the mixture from the tip of a spoon onto oiled 
paper. 

Note. — When cold weigh carefully and compute the cost per 
pound. 

Chocolate Creams 

Mold fondant (i), (2), and (3) into small cones. 
When firm coat them with unsweetened chocolate 
melted in a dish over hot water. Cool upon oiled 
paper. Compute cost per pound. 

Compare the three preceding confections with com- 
mercial candies of the same price per pound. 



58 Preparation of Food 

Experiment SO 

Comparison of Cane Sugar and Glucose 

Prepare 4 ounces of apple by paring, coring, and 
cutting into quarters. 

1. Place apples in a saucepan containing | c of 
water in which i ounce of sugar has been dissolved. 
Bring quickly to the boiling point, then cook slowly 
until the apples are soft. Cool. 

2. Quantities the same as in (i). Cook the apples 
in the water until soft. Cool, drain off the juice, and 
add the sugar to it. When the latter is thoroughly 
dissolved pour the syrup over the apples. 

Compare (i) and (2) as to sweetness and flavor, 

and explain results. 

Note. — Compare (i) with apples prepared in the same way, but 
using glucose instead of sugar. 

Glac6 Nuts or Fruit 

Boil i c of sugar in i c of water to the brittle or 
"hard crack" stage. Remove the saucepan from the 
fire, setting it into a pan of hot water during the dip- 
ping of the nuts or fruit. Hold the fruit by the stem 
and the nuts upon a long pin while dipping them in 
the syrup. Cool upon oiled paper. 

Weigh when hard enough to handle, and compute- 
cost per pound. 

Is the syrup remaining unused waste or refuse .? 
What is probably the chief item of cost in the prepara- 
tion of commercial glac6 nuts ? 



Laboratory Guide 59 

Starch 

Structure 

Examine under the microscope, and make drawings 
of starch cells from corn, potato, and rice. 

Experiment SI 

Solubility 

Mix J tsp of starch in 2 tbsp of cold water. Filter. 
Test filtrate and residue for starch. 

Experiment S2 

Mix 4 tsp of starch in 2 tbsp of cold water ; heat to 
boiling, filter, and test filtrate and residue for starch. 

Experiment S3 

Effect of Heat 

1. Heat I tsp of starch until light brown, stirring 
constantly. Taste. Test for starch. What is the 
product 1 

2. Mix I tsp of starch in J c of cold water and heat 
slowly, stirring well ; examine starch cells under the 
microscope at 60°, 80°, and 100°, making drawings. 

3. Mix product from (i) with i c of cold water. 
Heat to boiling. Compare with (2) as to consistency 
of paste. 

4. To I tsp of starch add i c of boiling water. 
Examine lump. Explain. Give remedy. 

5. {a) Mix I tsp of starch with i tbsp of cold 
water. Add i c of boiling water. Remove i tbsp to 
small dish. 



6o Preparation of Food 

{b) Boil remainder for 5 minutes. Remove por- 
tion as above. 

(c) Continue the boiling 1 5 minutes. Cool and 
compare {a), {b), and {c) as to flavor and consistency of 
paste. 

6. {a) Mix I tsp of starch with i tbsp of cold water. 
Add 4 c of boiling water. Boil 5 minutes and cook 
15 minutes in double boiler. 

{b) Mix I tsp of starch with i tbsp of cold water. 
Add i c of boiling water. Cook 20 minutes in double 
boiler. 

Compare [a) and (3) as to taste. Examine starch 
cells from each under the microscope. 

7. (a) To I tsp of arrowroot add i tbsp of cold 
water and i c of boiling water. Boil i minute. 

{b) Repeat, using cornstarch. 
{c) Treat i tsp flour same as (b). 
Compare results. Find equivalent of i tsp of arrow- 
root as a thickening agent in cornstarch and in flour. 

.. Applications 

Cornstarch Pudding 

I c milk A egg 

Cornstarch Salt 

I tbsp sugar Vanilla 

1. Determine amount of cornstarch to be used in 
this recipe. 

2. Determine all ingredients for i qt of milk. 

3. Develop a recipe for cornstarch pudding without 
eggs. 

Scald the milk, reserving a little cold. Mix corn- 
starch, sugar, and salt with the cold milk, and add to 



Laboratory Guide 6i 

the hot milk. Stirring constantly, boil 5 minutes, and 
cook in double boiler 15 minutes or longer. 

Add slightly beaten yolks and continue heating 
until the yolks are cooked. Remove from heat. Add 
whites, beaten stiff, and flavoring. Serve hot with hard 
sauce. 

Hard Sauce 

i c sugar \ c butter 

Flavoring 
Cream the butter. Add the sugar and blend very 
thoroughly. 

Snow Pudding 
I c water J tsp vanilla 

1 tbsp cornstarch i Qg% white 

2 tbsp sugar \ tsp salt 

Mix the starch in one-fourth of the water. Heat 
the remainder to boiling, stir in the starch, and 
boil for 1 5 minutes. Add the sugar ; remove from 
the fire and stir into it immediately the stiffly beaten 
egg white, to which was added the salt. Add vanilla. 

Heap lightly upon a dish and drop spoonfuls of 
jelly or marmalade in the center. Serve cold. 

Compare with the cornstarch pudding as to cost, 
probable digestibility, and nutritive value. (Disregard 
the hard sauce and the jelly.) 

White Sauce 

I tbsp flour I tbsp butter 

I c liquid 

Flour Butter Milk 

I. Thin white sauce . . i tbsp i tbsp i c 



62 Preparation of Food 

Flour Butter Milk 

2. Medium white sauce . 2 tbsp li tbsp ic 

3. Thick white sauce . 4 tbsp 2 tbsp i c 

1. Melt butter until it bubbles, add flour, mixing 
thoroughly. Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. 
Boil. Or : 

2. Heat milk, reserving a little cold. Mix flour 
with cold milk until perfectly smooth. Add gradually 
to hot milk, stirring constantly. Add butter and blend 
thoroughly. 

Under what condition would method (i) be more 
desirable .? Method (2) .? 

Give uses for sauce of each consistency. 

Experiment 54 

Carbohydrates in Combination 

I . Observe under the microscope : 

(a) A thin slice of raw potato which has been 
■ stained with iodine. Make a drawing showing the 
distribution of cellulose and starch. 

(d) Compare the above with a similar slice from 
a boiled potato. Upon which constituent has the heat 
had the most marked effect > 

Experiment SS 

(a) Cut a very thin slice through the middle of a 
well-washed raw potato. Place in a suitable dish and 
allow the water from the tap to run over it for 1 5 min- 
utes. Drain and pour dilute iodine over the surface. 

(6) At the same time treat similarly with iodine a 
freshly cut unwashed slice. Compare after 5 minutes. 



Laboratory Guide 63 

Experiment . 56 
Place in boiling water and cook until soft a few slices 
of potato washed as in («) above. Compare with similarly 
cooked slices put to boil when freshly cut. What con- 
stituent has been largely lost by the long washing.'' 
How does this loss affect the nutritive value ? 

Experiment 57 

Test the water from one of the above preparations 
for sugar and starch. 

Experiment 58 

Cut thin slices of carrot, turnip, parsnip, onion, and 
soared peas. Treat each with iodine and examine after 
5 minutes. Cook a few slices of each of these vege- 
tables in a little water, and test the water for sugar and 

starch. 

Experiment 59 

Pare potatoes and divide in half {a) and {b). 

Put {a) to cook in boiling salted water, r tsp of salt 
to 2 c of water. At the same time put {b) to cook in 
same quantity of unsalted water. Add i tsp of salt 
when potatoes are nearly done. 

Compare {a) and {b) as to time required in cooking 
and also as to texture and flavor. 

What can you say about the use of salted water in 
the cooking of vegetables.!" 

Experiment 60 

Wash three potatoes, remove imperfections, dry, 

and weigh. 

I. Bake in hot oven until tender. 



64 Preparation of Food 

2. Boil in 2 c of boiling water. 

3. Remove skin and boU in 2 c of boiling water. 
Compare (i), (2), and (3) as to time of cooking, loss 

or gain in weight in cooking, texture, color, and flavor. 
Taste water from (2) and (3) and test for starch. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Pare potatoes and cut into half-inch cubes 2 c. 
Drop at once into boiling salted water and cook untQ 
tender, taking care not to over-cook. Drain dry, and 
add at once 2 c of hot thin white sauce. Or, cold 
boiled potatoes may be used if care is taken to heat 
them thoroughly after adding the white sauce. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Cut hot baked potato in two lengthwise. Remove 
inside, and season with butter (about i tsp), salt, and 
pepper. Heap lightly in skins and brown in the oven. 

Mashed Potatoes 

6 potatoes (boiled) i tsp salt 

3 tbsp butter \ c hot milk 

The butter, salt, and milk are approximate. Why t 
Heat the milk and butter together. Mash potatoes 
thoroughly. Add seasonings and milk. Beat until" 
smooth and white. Heap lightly in hot dish. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and scrub potatoes and remove imperfections. 
Place in boiUng watet and boil unttl tender (about 20 
minutes). Add salt about 10 minutes before removing 
(i tbsp of salt to 6 potatoes). When done drain, remove. 



Laboratory Guide 6$ 

cover, and shake over heat. Remove skins, cover with 
cloth, and let stand in a warm place until ready to serve. 

Potato Croquettes 

" 2 c hot riced potatoes 4 tsp celery salt 

2 tbsp butter A few grains of cayenne 

\ tsp salt A few drops of onion juice 

\ tsp pepper i tsp finely chopped parsley 

" Mix ingredients in order given and beat thoroughly. 
Shape, roll in flour, then in beaten egg, and lastly in 
fine bread crumbs. Fry one minute. Drain on paper." 
Or: 

Season cold mashed potato by adding to each cupful 
I tsp finely chopped onion 
I tsp finely chopped parsley 
A little extra salt 
A few grains of cayenne 
Shape into cylinders or cones, dip in t.g%, roll in 
fine bread crumbs, and fry or saut6 quickly on all sides. 
Drain on paper.' 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Select perfect potatoes of medium size. Bake (avoid 
piercing with a large-tined fork). Cut into halves 
lengthwise. Serve hot with butter or gravy. 

. Steamed Sweet Potatoes 
Steam, remove skins, oil lightly with butter, sprinkle 
a very little sugar over, and brown a few minutes in the 

oven. Or : 

Mash, add a little milk, season with salt and butter, 
heap lightly on a dish, and brown. 



66 Preparation of Food 

EscALLOPED Cabbage 

Soak white cabbage in cold water until crisp. Cook 
until tender in boiling salted water (i tsp of salt to i pt 
of water). Drain off the water, cut in pieces, mix with 
white sauce (of what consistency .?). Put in baking 
dish or in ramekins, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
brown in the oven. 

Name other vegetables which may be prepared as 
above. 

Canned Green Vegetables 

Open the can and empty the contents at once into 
a colander. Wash well with fresh water. Why .>' The 
flavor is usually improved by allowing them to stand for 
an hour or more exposed to the air. 

Heat in double boiler (30 to 60 minutes), add butter, 
salt, and, in case the fresh vegetable is a sweet one, 
a little sugar. Or : 

Heat and season as above, add i tsp of flour, mix 
well, remove pan to naked flame, add \ c of water or 
milk, let boil up once. Compare as to taste the liquor 
from commercial and domestic canned vegetables. 

Vegetable Stew 

\ c carrot i tbsp onion 

i c turnip 3 tbsp butter 

i c celery i tsp parsley 

\\ c potato I tsp (.?) salt 

I qt water Pepper 

Cut the vegetables into half-inch cubes. Sautd in 
the butter until a delicate brown. Add the salt and 



Laboratory Guide 67 

pepper and lastly the water, hot. Simmer for i hour. 
Add potatoes the last 20 minutes. 

Cream of Vegetable Soup 

Based upon the work already done with starch and 
with vegetables, prepare a cream of vegetable soup. 
Quantity when finished, i c. 

Serve with croutons prepared by cutting strips \ inch 
in width from thick slices of fine-grained bread and 
toasting them in a moderate oven to a delicate brown. 
In case the crust is rejected for the sake of appearance, 
is it refuse or waste .? 

Baked Beans 

Weigh and measure dry beans. Soak over night in 
cold water. 

Place in cold water to which has been added some 
baking soda (J tsp to i pt of water). Heat slowly and 
cook until the skins begin to burst. 

Pour off water. Add i tsp of salt and 2 tsp mo- 
lasses for each cup of dry beans used. Mix well, place 
in bean jar, put small cubes of salt pork on top, cover 
with water. Bake slowly for 6 or 8 hours. (What 
temperature.?) Add more water if needed. 

Weight of beans before cooking .? 

Weight of beans after cooking .? 

Bulk of beans after cooking 1 

Cost of nutrients ? 



68 Preparation of Food 

Cereals 
Experiment 61 

Rice 

I. Weigh out I oz of rice, noting its bulk. Wash 
thoroughly to remove dust and loose starch from the 
surface of the grains. Add to 2 c of rapidly boihng 
salted water (4 tsp of salt). Keep up the rapid boiling 
until the rice is tender. Transfer to a strainer and pour 
a little water through it. Hot or cold.? Shake off the 
surplus water and dry the rice a little in the oven or 
in a dish over boiling water. 
Record : 

Time of cooking. 

Weight after boiling. 

Ratio of bulk before and after boiling. 
2. Continue boiling the water in which the rice 
was cooked until the volume is reduced about one-half. 
Cool and note consistency. Explain. 

Experiment 62 

Prepare i ounce of rice as above. Cook for 3 to 
5 minutes in f c of boiling salted water (J tsp of salt. 
Why less than in Experiment 61 .?). Finish the cooking 
in the double boiler. Avoid stirring while cooking. Re- 
move cover from saucepan and shake the contents for 
a few minutes to aid in drying. 

Compare with Experiment 61 as to: 

(a) Time of cooking. 

ib) Weight. 

{c) Bulk. 



Laboratory Guide 



69 



{d) Appearance. 
{e) Flavor. 
Explain any difference in weight between Experi- 
ments 61 and 62. 

Experiment 63 
Comparison of Rice with Potato 

Rice Potato 
Weight as purchased . 

Weight when ready to cook 

Weight cooked . 

Bulk 

Cost per lb raw ^ 

Cost per lb boiled 

Total nutrients per lb raw . 

Total nutrients per lb cooked 

Fuel value per lb raw 

Fuel value per lb boiled 

Cost per 3,000 calories (an estimate of 

daily requirement for i man) 

EscALLOPED Rice with Cheese 

Mix the rice from Experiment 62 with white sauce. 
Add I tbsp of finely divided cheese and a few grains of 
cayenne pepper. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
brown in the oven. 

Estimate the nutritive value of this dish, including 
the buttered crumbs. 

Rice Croquettes 

Add to the rice from Experiment 62, i tbsp of sugar, 
half of one egg yolk, a little nutmeg or lemon extract. 

1 60 lb potatoes ^ i bu. 



70 Preparation of Food 

Shape into croquettes. Roll in egg and bread crumbs. 
Fry. Serve with jelly. 

Plain Rice Pudding 

To I qt of whole milk add 4 tbsp of well-washed 
rice, 4 tbsp of sugar, and \ tsp of salt. Bake 3 to 
5 hours at a low temperature, stirring the pudding up 
thoroughly every hour. When it begins to thicken 
add I c of seeded raisins. Finally allow the top to 
brown nicely. Serve hot or cold with thin cream. 

What are some good points in this pudding ? 

Estimate nutritive value. 

For what meal is it best suited .? 

Experiment 64 

Quaker Oats 

Prepare i ounce of Quaker Oats, using the propor- 
tions suggested upon the package, but cook for 5 min- 
utes over free flame and finish the cooking in a double 
boiler. Note the volume of: 

1. Dry material taken. 

2. Resulting porridge. 

Compare with oatmeal where the cooking has been 
prolonged from 3 to 5 hours by steaming. 

Experiment 6S 

— c of Quaker Oats weighs i ounce and requires — c 
of water for cooking. Bearing in mind this data, and 
assuming that a cereal takes up in cooking an amount 
of water in direct proportion to its weight, cook i oz 
each of: 



Laboratory Guide 71 

Corn meal Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 

Pillsbury's Vitos Cream of Wheat 

Hominy- 
Record : 

(a) Bulk of dry material. 

(p) Amount of water needed in weight and 

measure. 
(c) Time required. 
Compare with oatmeal as to consistency of porridge, 
and make supplementary data. State essentials in the 
cooking of cereals. 



72 



Preparation of Food 



Amount of Nutrients Furnished for Ten Cents in Cereal 
Foods Compared with Other Foods 



Name of food. 



Price per 
pound. 



Ten Cents Will Pay for 



Total 

food 

material. 



Nutrients. 



Protein. Fats, 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Fuel 
value. 



Laboratory Guide 73 

Leavening 

Examine the flour preparations, leavened and un- 

. leavened. To what is the difference in appearance and 

texture due ? What " light " preparation have you 

made in your previous work? To what was that 

"lightness " due? 

Make leavened and unleavened biscuit, and note 
difference as to taste, texture, and appearance. 

Leavening Agents 

What leavening agents have you already used? 
What are sources of those most commonly used? 

Experiment 66 

Arrange apparatus according to the model set up. 
Determine the reaction and test products obtained from : 

1. Soda and sour milk. 

2. Soda and molasses. 

3. Soda and cream of tartar. 

4. Baking powder. 

5 . Soda and calcium acid phosphate. 

6. Yeast. 

Write the equations for these reactions. What 
chemical product is common to all of them ? What can 
you say concerning the residue in each ? Judging from 
these experiments, what are the essential constituents 
of a leavening agent? 

Leavened Preparations 

In writing notes on all leavened preparations record 
the kind of gas made use of, also the ingredients present 
which serve to retain the gas. 



74 Preparation of Food 

POPOVERS 

" I c flour I Q.gg 

I c milk \ tsp salt 

"Mix ingredients and beat until very light. Bake 
in a moderately hot oven, with gradually increasing heat, 
40 to 45 minutes." 

White Sponge Cake 

I measure of tgg white \\ measures fine granulated 
I measure freshly sifted sugar 

flour Flavoring, 6 drops for each 

\ tsp cream of tartar for e.^g white used 

each &gg white used 
Beat the &%% to a stiff froth, adding the cream of 
tartar while beating. Add sugar gradually, flavoring. 
Fold flour in. Avoid stirring. Bake at 150° for 30 
minutes. 

Steamed Brown Bread. I 

2 c corn meal 2 c sour milk 

2 c bread crumbs i c miolasses 

I tsp salt 2 tsp soda 

I c seeded raisins 
If the crumbs are very dry moisten them with cold 
water. Drain off the water and let them warm a few 
minutes in the oven. Dissolve soda in milk, add the 
other ingredients at once, and mix well. Steam 3 to 
4 hours. The loaves may afterwards be dried off for 
a few minutes in the oven. 



Laboratory Guide 75 

Steamed Brown Bread. II 

" I c corn meal i c Graham flour 

I c rye meal 2 c sour milk 

f c molasses i tsp soda 

I tsp salt 
"Mix and steam as above." 

Griddle Cakes 

"3c flour i c sugar 

4 tsp baking powder 2 c milk 

I tsp salt I egg 

I tsp melted butter 
" Mix and sift dry ingredients ; beat Q^'g, add milk, 
and pour slowly on first mixture. Beat thoroughly and 
add butter. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot griddle ; cook 
on one side. When puffed full of bubbles and cooked 
on edges, turn and cook other side." 

Corn Meal Gems ' 

I c thick sour milk i egg 

I c corn meal i tsp salt 

J c flour i to i tsp soda (why not give 

I tsp sugar definite measure here .?) 

Dissolve the soda in the milk. Add the meal and 
flour at once. (Why T) Stir till well mixed. Add the 
sugar, salt, and e^gg. Beat until the egg is thoroughly 
blended with the batter. Have the gem panfe well 
greased and very hot. Fill two thirds full and bake 
10 to IS minutes in hot oven. 



"]() Preparation of Food 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 c flour 4 tsp baking powder 

I tsp salt 4 tsp butter, lard, or suet 

f to I c milk or water 
Mix the dry ingredients ; rub the butter in thor- 
oughly, then add the milk gradually, stirring with a 
spoon until a soft smooth dough is formed which can 
be stirred free from the side of the mixing bowl. Turn 
out on the board, using flour to prevent sticking. (Avoid 
leaving dry flour upon the surface of the biscuits.) Roll 
to about I inch in thickness, cut with a rather small 
cutter. Bake s to 8 minutes. (Temperature?) 



Laboratory Guide 



77 



Tabulate recipes for cake as found in cook books 
according to the variation in the amount of butter 
(/. e., fat) used, beginning with the one containing the 
minimum quantity. Calculate to 3 c of flour. 



Butter. 



Sugar. 



Milk. 



Eggs. 



Flour. 



Baking 
powder. 



Cost. 



What other ingredient tends to increase in amount 
with the increase in the amount of butter ? As the 



78 Preparation of Food 

number of eggs used increases what other ingredient 
tends to decrease ? Is the variation in general in- 
gredients a gradual one ? 

Prepare a cake according to the first recipe. Give 
uses for such a mixture. Compare with cakes : 

1. Where maximum amount of butter is used. 

2. Where amount of butter equals one-half the 
amount of milk. 

Cottage Pudding 

Modify the first recipe in the cake series in such a 
way that the result will be a pudding suitable for serving 
with either one of the following sauces. 

Pudding to be either steamed or baked. 

Lemon Sauce 

I c sugar I c butter 

I egg I tsp nutmeg 

3 tbsp boiling water Juice of i lemon and \ the 

rind grated 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, lemon, 
and nutmeg. Beat for 5 minutes, add water gradually, 
set over boiling water. Serve hot. 

Golden Sauce 

2 tbsp butter i c powdered sugar 

2 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

3 tbsp cream ° Flavoring 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks beaten until 
lemon-colored and thick, then the cream. Carefully 
fold in the stiflfly beaten whites. 



Laboratory Guide 79 

What addition to the above pudding suggests itself 
if it is to be served with a plain sauce ? 

Plain Sauce 

I tbsp butter i tbsp flour 

6 tbsp sugar i c liquid 

Flavoring 

Note. — The liquid may be a fruit juice, which will furnish the 
flavoring 'also. 

Prepare in same manner as white sauce, but allow 
it to boil up thoroughly over the naked flame. Serve 
while still foaming. 

Cream Sauce 

\ c cream \ c milk 

\ c powdered sugar i tsp flavoring 

Whip the cream until stiff, then beat it into the 

milk, to which has been added the sugar and flavoring. 

Serve cold. 



Yeast 
Examine active yeast plant under the microscope. 
Note reproduction by cell division. Make drawings. 

f Food. 
Conditions affecting growth j temperature. 

Experiment 67 

Blend one yeast cake thoroughly in a pint of water 
to which has been added i tbsp. of sugar. 

I. Freeze a portion of the mixture, then allow to 
thaw at room temperature. 



8o Preparation of Food 

2. Boil another portion and cool to room temper- 
ature. 

3. Take a third portion at room temperature. 

4. Chill a fourth portion. 

Fill bottles from each of the above and invert them 
on plates. Keep (i), (2), and (3) at 32 to 37" and (4) 
packed in ice during the remainder of the laboratory 
period. Explain results observed. 

Effect of Food Conditions 
Observe action of yeast with different food materials 
as given below. 

1 . Water. 

2. Water and flour (i tsp of flour to i c of water). 

3. Milk. 

4. Milk and flour (proportions as in (2)). 

5. Potato water. 

6. Starch and water. 

7. Water and sugar as used in Experiment 67. 
(J of a yeast cake to each bottle.) 



Study of Flour (Laboratory Work) 

References : John Goodfellow. Dietetic Value of Bread. 
Leach. Pages 244-254. 
Hutchison. Food and the Principles of 

Dietetics, Chapter XL 
Bulletin 13, pt. 9. Bureau of Chemistry. 

Foods and Food Adulterants : Cereals 

and Cereal Products. . 



Laboratory Guide gi 

Farmers' Bulletin ri2. Bread and the 
Principles of Breadmaking. 

Office of Experiment Stations. Bulletins 
52, 67, 8s, loi, 126, 143, 156. 

Bulletin 82. South Dakota Experiment 
Station. 

1. Examine Graham, whole wheat, and white flour. 
Sift and examine residue. 

2. Comparison of spring and winter wheat flour : 

(a) Color. 

(b) Texture. 

{c) Cohesion — press in hand. 
(d) Composition (experiment). 

Experiment 68 

Composition 

1. Make a rather stiff dough with 2 tbsp of flour 
and let stand 20 minutes. 

2. Tie the dough in a piece of cheese cloth and 
wash by kneading for 3 minutes in J c of water. Test 
this water for sugar and starch. 

3. Take fresh water and continue the washing 
until the wash water gives no test for starch. What 
is the residue upon the cloth .? Form into a ball and 
bake. What characteristic of protein is shown 1 What 
is the percentage composition of Graham, entire wheat, 
and patent flours .? How do the constituents affect the 
value of the flour to the baker.? To the consumer.? 
Examine macaroni. Compare with flour as to con- 
stituents, composition, and method of manufacture. 



82 Preparation of Food 

Breads 

Short Process 

See page 46 for directions. 

Record oven temperature. 

Judge the bread by the score card. 



Revised bread score card. 




Student's 
Score. 


Instructor's 
Score. 


Judging bread. 


Sample 
No. 


Sample 
No. 


Sample 
No. 


Sample 
No. 


Flavor 


35 
IS 
20 
10 
10 
10 










Lightness 










Grain and texture 










Crust — color, depth, texture, 










Crumb — color, moisture . . 










Shape and size 










Total 


100 





Long Process 



i cake of dry yeast 
I tsp butter 
I tsp salt 



I tsp sugar 
I c water 
3 c flour 



Sponge 



Soak the yeast in the warmed water until softened. 
Place the sugar, salt, and butter in a bowl. Add the 
warm water, yeast, and about one-half of the flour. 
Beat smooth and let rise. 



Laboratory Guide 83 

Dough 

Add the remainder of the flour to the light sponge, 
stirring it in until it is well mixed (a little more or less 
than 3 c of flour may be required). Turn the dough 
onto the board and knead quickly until it is smooth 
and somewhat elastic to the touch. Put into a bowl 
and set to rise. (Temperature .?) 

Loaves 

When the dough is thoroughly light (this will be 
when it has doubled its original bulk) knead it down 
well, make into a loaf, and set to rise again in the pan 
in which it is to be baked. When the dough has again 
risen to twice the original size of the loaf, bake for from 
40 to 50 minutes, noting oven temperature every 5 min- 
utes during the baking. When baked remove the loaf 
from the pan at once, and cool it on a rack which 
allows for a free circulation of air. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Make a sponge as for short or long process bread, 

omitting the butter. When light, use entire wheat flour 

to make a soft dough. .Make into loaves ; let rise until 

thoroughly light. Bake with moderate heat i -hour 

or longer. 

Bread Sticks 

When it is desirable to have a bread with a large 
proportion of crust, a dough prepared as for rolls may 
be baked in bread stick pans or merely formed into 
long, slender rolls and arranged in an ordinary pan, 
giving room for them to rise without touching each 
other. 



84 Preparation of Food 

Zwieback 

Make the dough into ordinary round rolls, not too 
large, placing them close together in the pan. When 
baked turn them out of the pan and separate them 
quickly ; then pull each roll apart, holding it by the 
crusts and taking care not to pack the soft fresh crumb. 
Place them in the pan with crusts down, and continue 
the baking until the crumb is a delicate brown. 

In what cases may a large proportion of crust, i. e., 
of dextrinized starch, be desirable .' What is toast? 
How made properly.? 

Parker House Rolls 

" 2 c scalded milk i yeast cake blended with 
3 tbsp butter \ c lukewarm water 

2 tbsp sugar 6 c (.') flour 

I tsp salt 
" Pour milk over butter, sugar and salt. When 
cooled to proper temperature add yeast and 3 c of flour. 
Beat well. Let rise ; add enough flour to make a soft 
dough. When light, roll out to \ inch in thickness. 
Cut with rather large biscuit cutter. Crease each roll 
through the middle with a knife handle ; brush over 
one half with melted butter ; fold and press the edges 
together. Let rise again. Bake 12 to 15 minutes." 



PRACTICE LUNCHEON 

From the food materials furnished prepare a four- 
course luncheon for one person. 



Laboratory Guide 
Record 



85 



Materials furnished. 



Menu. 



Remarks. — Note seasonings or other extra materials obtained 
from supply table. 



86 Preparation of Food 

MEALS 

References : Hill, Janet M. Practical Cooking and Serv- 
ing, Part III, Chapter VI. 

Farmer, Fannie M. Boston Cooking School 
Cook Book, Chapter XXXVIII. 

Lincoln, Mary J. Boston Cook Book, p. 439. 

Experiment 69 

Make out menus and market lists for a breakfast, 
luncheon, and dinner to be served to six persons, esti- 
mating cost of material used. Prepare and serve these 
meals, devoting one laboratory period to each. Correct 
the preliminary estimate of cost. 



BS-7 



-m0 



^m 



