
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




&«^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 







Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Joe Tilden's Recipes 
for Epicures 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S 

RECIPES FOR 

EPICURES 




A. M. ROBERTSON 
SAN FRANCISCO 



y Google 



COPYRIGHT BY 
A. M. ROBERTSON 

1907 '; 



THE SEQUOIA PRESS 
BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA 



Digitized by 



Google 






Introductory Note 



Major Joseph Tilden was in his time one of the most 
famous Bohemians and epicureans of the Pacific Coast. 
Ever since his death his many friends have been trying 
to learn the culinary secrets which made a repast of 
his devising so delicious. He had given his recipes to 
but few, and those few his most intimate friends and 
fellow spirits. One of the most favored of his old 
companions has given this complete collection of his 
recipes for publication. 

San Francisco, May, 1907. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



r 



SOUPS AND 
CHOWDERS 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Onion Soup 
Place six ounces of butter in a large saucepan 
over the fire, and stir into it four large white 
onions cut up, not sliced. Stew this very slowly 
for one hour, stirring frequently to prevent its 
scorching. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
about one quart of stock, and cook one hour 
longer. Then stir into the mixture one and a 
half cups of milk and simmer for a few minutes. 
Have ready a soup tureen. In it beat the yolks 
of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir the hot soup into this, 
beating until it thickens a little. A slice of 
toasted French bread should be placed in each 
plate, and the soup poured over it. 

Palestine Soup 

Slice two or three Jerusalem artichokes and 
place in two quarts of boiling water. Cook for 
oae and one-half hours. Then rub the arti- 
chokes through a colander and add to them one 

3 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pint of the water in uritidi rthey were boiled. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 
the same amount of butter. Add two cups of 
milk and boil for ten minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve with croutons. 

Black Bean Soup 

Soak over night one quart of black turtle 
beans in water to cover them. In the morning 
strain and boil them in four quarts of water for 
one hour, skimming frequently. Then put into 
the liquor two white onions sliced, two stalks of 
celery cut into bits, salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
one teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 
Boil for three hours. Remove from the stove 
and add enough stock to thin the mixture to 
the consistency >of a* oEeaaa^^somp. Pour into it 
nearly a tumbler of sherry and add a thinly sliced 
lime. Place over the fire to boil for five minutes. 
Jtist before serving stir into the soup three hard- * 
boiled eggs, finely chopped. Force meat balls 
may be added. 

4 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Parker House Tomato Soup 

Put into a saucepan five pounds of tomatoes, 
either fresh or canned, with one quart of water, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and three ounces of butter, 
rubbed into one heaping tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook slowly one hour. Remove from the fire 
and rub through a sieve. Place over the fire 
again and add one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of rice flour which has been dissolved in a little 
water. Let it come to a boil, when it is ready 
to serve. 

Celery Soup 

Boil one small cupftd of rice in three pints of 
milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, 
until it is tender^ Then tub it through a sieve 
and add one quart of veal stock, salt, cayenne, 
and three heads of celery (the white stalks only) 
which have been previously grated. Boil until 
the celery is tender, 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bisque of Prowns or Shrimps 

Boil three dozen prawns twenty minutea in 
salted water to cover them. Meanwhile in two 
small tablespoonfuls of butter, fry an onion and 
a carrot sliced, and a small piece of salt pork 
chopped. Take the prawns out of the boiling 
water and add to it the fried mixture with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs and one-half the 
prawns added again. Simmer one hour. Pound 
the shells of the prawns in a mortar with a little 
butter, to form a smooth paste. Stir this into 
the soup and boil twenty minutes. Strain 
through a sieve. Add one quart of milk and 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred into a 
little of the cold milk. Let it boil up, and serve. 
It shotdd be as thick as rich cream. 

Lobster Soup 

Pick the meat from a five pound lobster and 
pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a 
little milk or cream. When perfectly smooth, 

6 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOfFDERS 



add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonftd 
of chopped parsley (if liked), cayenne and mace. 
Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
mix this with the yolk of an egg and fry it in 
butter. Mix the rest of the pounded lobster 
with two quarts of milk and rub through a 
sieve. Put this in a saucepan and simmer ten 
minutes. Add two ounces of butter and stir 
until melted and smooth. Pour over the fried 
balls in the tureen and serve very hot. 

Venison Soup 

Cut six pounds of lean venison into medium 
sized x>ieces and place in a soup kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, to which add two dozen 
cloves and four blades of mace. Boil slowly 
three hours. Then add two pounds of venison, 
cut into pieces about an inch square and one 
dozen force meat balls. Boil for thirty min- 
utes. Then season with salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and half a glass of Ume juice, letting the soup 
cook ten minutes longer. It should be served 

7 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

in hot bowls in each of which is poured a half 
glass of port before serving. Crisp croutons 
may be added. 



Puree of Venison 

Cut up the remains of venison that had been 
roasted for a former dinner, put a few slices of 
ham into a stew pan, then the venison, two whole 
onions, a blade of mace, two quarts of stock, 
and a small piece of a sprig of thyme, parsley, 
and two cloves. Set it on the stove to sinmier, 
two hours or more. Strain it oS, and puU all 
the meat to pieces. Pound it with the lean ham 
that was boiled with it, the crust of two French 
rolls which has been soaked in consomme. 
Rub the whole through a colander with a glass 
of claret or port and enough consomme to bring 
it to the consistency of cream. Put it back on 
the fire in a double boiler. Stir a little butter 
into it, and serve with bread fried in dice. 

8 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Clear Soup Stock 

To f cmr potinds of beef add six quarts of cold 
water and place over the fire. Just before it 
boils, skim it carefully. Then add two cups of 
cold water and skim again, repeating this for a 
third skinmiing. Allow it to sinmier slowly for 
three hours. Then add^the vegetables; eight 
ounces each of cut'up carrots, onions and turnips, 
and three ounces of celery, with salt and pepper. 
Sixnmer three hours longer. The stock shotdd be 
strained before using, and while cooking it 
should not be allowed to boil. 

Daniel Webster's Chowder 

Pry with some slices of pork, four tablespoon- 
ftds of sliced onions, to a light brown. Put them 
in a deep iron pot with six pounds of cod sliced, 
one quart of boiled mashed potatoes, one potmd 
and a half of broken sea biscuit, fifty oysters, 
one teaspoonftd of thyme, one teaspoonftd of 
sunmier savory, one-half a bottle of mushroom 

9 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN*S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

catsup, one bottle of port 'or cteret, one-half a 
nutmeg, one dozen cloves, a little mace and all- 
spice, one half a lemon sliced, pepper and salt. 
Cover with one inch of water and cook slowly 
until done. 

Scott's Chowder 

Cover the bottom of a deep pot with slices of 
pork cut very thin. Add a layer of fish sliced 
and seasoned with salt and pepper, a layer of 
onions parboiled and quartered, a layer of toma- 
toes sliced and seasoned, a layer of thickly sliced 
potatoes and a layer of broken sea biscuit. 
Repeait the layers until the pot is filled. Just 
cover the fish with water and cook one hotir very 
slowly. Add one pint of claret, cook one-half 
hour longer and serve. 



10 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SOUPS AND CHOfVDERS 

Marblehead Chowder 

Cut half a pound of salt pork into dice and 
place two-thirds of it in a deep saucepan; fry 
a light brown. Remove it and in the fat fry- 
two large onions sliced. Cover the bottom of 
the pot with slices of raw cod or bass 
mixed with some of the fried pork and onions. 
On this place another layer of sliced 
fish mixed with a few pieces of raw pork, 
and slices of raw onion, salt and pepper; over 
this a layer of sliced raw potatoes. Repeat 
these layers until the pot is about two-thirds 
full, when the mixture should be covered with 
warm water, or preferably a stock made of the 
heads and tails of the fish. After the chowder 
comes to a boil, let it cook for forty-five minutes. 
Then add some broken sea biscuit, and boil 
fifteen minutes longer. In another saucepan 
place a quart of milk and heat it to the boiling 
point. Then stir into it two ounces of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter. When it 
thickens a little, pour it over the chowder and 
serve. 

11 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

The redpfr nolt taSce about' f tar pounds of 
fish, half a potind of pork, six onions, six po- 
tatoes, four sea biscuits, two ounces each of but- 
ter and flotir and a quart of milk. 

Clam Chowder I 

Have one hundred clams still in the shell. 
Boil them in a quart of water tmtil the shells 
open. Take the clams out of the kettle, saving 
thie water in which they were boiled. Remove 
them from the shells, discarding all but the soft 
part. Take six slices of salt pork and cut intp 
dice. Fry until crisp and a Ught brown. Re- 
move from the saucepan and in the fat fry four 
onions sliced. Then add the water strained 
from the clams and the fried pork. To this add 
six potatoes cut in small pieces and two green 
peppers chopped or finely sliced. Boil the mix- 
ture fifteen minutes before putting in the clams 
and four sea biscuits, broken into pieces. Then 
boil for fifteen minutes longer and add a quart 

12 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOffDERS 

of milk. Have half a €«p of bread crumbs 
rubbed into four ounces 6ri:)utter. Stir this in 
as the chowder heats after the milk has been 
added. When it boils, it is ready to serve. 

Clam Chowder II 
In a saucepan fry two slices of salt pork and 
when brown, add four potatoes and four onions 
cut up. Fry ten minutes and add three pints 
of water, salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. 
Then add one quart of clams from which the 
tough portions have been removed. Also two 
sea biscuits which have been soaked until they are 
soft. Cook ten minutes. For this recipe, 
canned clams may be used. 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 
Take the meat of a good sized crab, a tum- 
blerftd of shrimps and a clove of garlic. Chop 
all very fine and make into small force meat 
balls with a beaten t.%%. Fry them a light brown 
in butter, and serve in any fish chowder or soup. 

13 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



14 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Memo 



15 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEhrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



16 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Memo 



17 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TJLDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



18 



Digitized by Google J 



F 


I S 


H 










m^^ 






^^^^ 




1 


^m 






M 


_ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

SISSBBBSB 



Oysters a la Marechale 

Stew very gently in four ounces of butter 
some thinly sliced truffles and mushrooms. 
After cooking ten minutes add salt, white pep- 
per, cayenne and mace. Stir in four large 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well together 
while it thickens. Put in the liquor of the 
oysters which has been scalded and skimmed. 
Then add milk (boiling) enough to make it as 
thick as cream. Take from the fire and stir in 
the yolks of four eggs beaten well with the juice 
of a Ume and a tablespoonful of water. 

Cover each oyster thickly with some of the 
mixture and allow it to cool. Then roll twice 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry to a 
light brown in butter and serve very hot. 

Toasted Angels 

Sprinkle cayenne and a few drops of lime 
juice over as many large oysters as are required, 
then wrap each oyster in a thin strip of bacon 

21 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILbEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

or fat salt pork. Fasten with a wooden tooth- 
pick and broil until the bacon is crisp. Serve 
very hot on squares of buttered toast. 

Oyster Pates 

Rub together one ounce of butter and one 
teaspoonful of flour. Melt this in a saucepan 
and add salt, mace and cayenne. Stir gently 
a few Canutes, until smooth. Then add slowly 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Strain two dozen 
oysters and add the liquor very slowly, stirring 
all the time. When it boils up, put in the 
oysters, cook three minutes and fill the pat6 
shells. Serve very hot. 

Scalloped Clams 

Wash clean one hundred clams. Use soft 
part whole and the tough part chopped fine. 
Put a layer on the bottom of a buttered baking 

22 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

saBsasssaEsaBa:sBXSBSSBaBssas^B^BaiiBBaBBaBHBacrBEBBHBos 

dish. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a 
little mace and sprinkle over plenty of stale 
bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Put 
plenty of butter on top and pour in a cup of the 
water from the clams. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour, and when half done pour in a 
tumbler of sherry. 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry 

Melt four ounces of butter and fry in it four 
young onions and a clove of garlic chopped. 
Add the juice of two limes. Stir into this one 
teaspoonful of com starch, two tablespoonfuls 
of curry powder and half a cup of cream with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Stir this rapidly over the 
fire until very thick. Thin with milk until it is 
the proper consistency, then add a large cup of 
picked shrimps, and as many oysters. Cook 
two minutes after it boils. 

23 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 

Place two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan and brown over the fire. 
Stir into this one cup of stock, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped raw ham, a 
slice of onion, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Strain the same and add to it a cup of shrimps. 
Simmer again for a few moments and add a 
teaspoonful of tomato or mushroom catsup. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve in 
timbale cases. 

Shrimps with Tomato 

Stew half a dozen large tomatoes with a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a piece of butter, 
salt, pepper and cayenne. Put this through a 
sieve until it is very smooth. Fill a baking 
dish with picked shrimps, pour the tomato 
over them, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
bits of butter, and bake until brown. 

24 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

Saute of Shrimps 

Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan with a 
little flour, salt and cayenne. Just as it turns 
dark, put in a glass of white wine, a pound of 
picked shrimps, a little lemon juice, and if 
liked, a bit of anchovy sauce. Take from the 
fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Pour into cup-shaped pieces of fried bread, and 
serve very hot. 

Crab a la Creole 

Fry in four ounces of butter, four young 
onions, one clove of garlic and two green pep- 
pers, all chopped fine. Cook until soft and add 
one tomato cut up, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Stew until smooth and add one teaspoonful of 
flour, a little cream or rich milk, and the meat 
picked from two crabs. Boil a few moments 
and serve with buttered toast. 



25 ; : 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN' RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Sole a la Normandie 

Take a large sole (one without a roe). Re- 
move the back skin and with a sharp knife very 
carefully cut out the side fins, lay it on the dish 
in which it is to be served, one that may be 
placed in the oven. Brush the fish with melted 
butter. Insert in the fiesh of the fish some 
small slices of truffle. Sprinkle it with salt, 
white pepper, a very little mace and dust it all 
over with fine crumbs. Pour around it a 
tumbler of good white wine. Place in a mod- 
erate oven and cook until nearly done, twenty 
minutes or longer, if the fish be large. Take it 
out and put around the edge of the dish a row of 
croutons, brushing them with the white of an 
egg to make them adhere to the dish. Then 
scatter over and around the fish, a small can of 
mushrooms, sliced, oysters, mussels, picked 
shrimps and some quenelles. Add a Httle more 
melted butter and a few more crumbs, add more 
white wine and put back in the oven for five 
minutes. 

: 26 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FISH 

rSSSSSS^BSSSBSSSSSSSBSasaBSSBSSSBSBSBBi 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian 

Cut a sole or flotinder into four filets. Roll 
each one up, stuffing with a mixture of sal 
piquant sauce. Roll around each a thin slice 
of pork and fasten with a skewer. Stand on end 
in a baking pan and put a small piece of butter 
and a slice of lemon on each and bake until 
done. 

Fry together for five minutes, chopped escha- 
lots, parsley, chevril, herbs, butter, salt and 
cayenne. Take from the fire and stir in a little 
lime juice and anchovy sauce. 

Baked Sole 

Skin the slack side of the fish and lay in a 
baking pan. Brush with beaten egg, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and pour over them some 
melted butter. Cover the fish with a layer of 
thin slices of pork or bacon. Add one-half pint 
of water and bake half an hour. To make the 

27 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

sauce, take the liquor from the baking pan, add 
to it salt, pepper, cayenne, the juice of one lime, 
a wine glass of sherry, a tablespoonful of mush- 
room or walnut catsup, and a piece of butter 
the size of an ^gg with a little flour rubbed into 
it. Allow it to boil once and pour over the fish. 

Flounders a la Magouze 

Place Several fish into a baking pan with a 
glass of white wine, salt, pepper, and an ounce 
of butter. While they are cooking break three 
eggs into half a pint of cream, and beat until it 
is light. When the fish is done remove them 
from the pan and stir the eggs and cream into 
the gravy. Simmer for two minutes, and pour 
over the fish, serving at once. 



28 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PISH t 

Salmon a la Melville ^ :<'' ' * 

Put slices of salmon into a baking pan with a 
little white wine and water. Sprinkle with salt 
and bits of butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 

For a sauce, blanch some very finely chopped 
young onions. Put them in a saucepan with a 
wine glass of white wine, salt, cayenne, a cup of 
picked shrimps, a lemon cut in thin slices, and 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Then 
add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled 
in a very little flour. Remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce 
over the fish and serve. 

Stewed Haddock 

Lay pieces of fish in a pan with the skin side 
up. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and cover 
tightly, allowing the fish to stew in its juice for 
twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a 

29 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

SBa^BBB^BSBSS=SS=SSSS^=SSSSS::BS=S=:^BSBS=S=SSaSSB 

pound of butter rolled in flour, and a quarter 
of a glass of wine. Stir the liquor and simmer 
for a few moments, when it is ready to serve. 
No water should be used. 

Bacalas a la Viscaina 

Soak half a salt codfish over night. Put in a 
saucepan one-half cup of olive oil, and two large 
onidns cut in bits. When browned add two 
large tomatoes cut up. Stew slowly fifteen 
minutes, adding a little black pepper. Putjin 
the fish picked to pieces and cook slowly half 
an hour. Serve on a platter, with some fried 
whole green peppers on top. 

' Baked Sardines 

Remove the skins from large boned sardines 
and heat in the oven on strips of toast. Make 
a sauce as follows: Pour the oil from the sar- 

30 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

dines into a. saucepan and heat it well. Then 
stir in an otince of flour, adding a small cup 
of Jhot water. Season this with a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, salt and paprika. 
Beat the yolk of an ^gg with a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and one of mustard. Stir this into the 
sauce after it is removed from the fire. Pour 
over the sardines and serve. 

Sardines with Cheese 

Drain the sardines and lay them on strips of 
toast or crisply fried bread. Cover thickly with 
Parmesan cheese and bake in a hot oven tmtil 
light brown in color. Remove and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and pour over all plenty 
of lemon juice. Serve very hot. 



31 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Sta^BS^SSSSSSSSSS^SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSBS^SSS^SSSSSB 

Scalloped Fish Roe 

Boil three large roes in water with a very little 
vinegar for ten minutes. Remove from the 
fire and plunge into cold water, wipe the roe 
dry and break into bits without crushing. 
Have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. 
Mash them into a cup of drawn butter with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, a teaspoonftd of an- 
chovy paste, the juice of half a lemon and a cup 
of bread crumbs. Mix very lightly with the 
broken fish roe. Place in a baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and 
brown in the oven. 

Kedgeree 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice and drain it as 
dry as possible. Have ready a cupful of cooked 
fish of any sort broken into pieces. Mix it 
thoroughly with the rice and heat over the fire; 
season with salt and pepper. Beat an egg 
lightly and stir into it. Serve at once. 

32 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

Bouillabaise 

The fi^h used for botdllabaise may be any kind 
of firm white fish, and for the following recipe, 
about two pounds are required. Heat in a soup 
kettle four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fry 
in it two large onions sliced, and two cloves of 
garlic. Add the fish cut into bits and just 
cover the mixture with warm water. Then add 
salt, pepper, half of a bay leaf, two laige to- 
matoes, peeled and chopped, the juice of half a 
lemon and one cup of white wine. Cook over a 
brisk fire twelve minutes, or until the liquor is 
reduced one-third. Add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley and a pinch of saffron. Cook 
two minutes. Pour the bouillabaise over slices 
of French bread. 



33 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



I 



Memo 



34 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 

Memo 



35 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Memo 



36 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 




V. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 



Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

Lay half a dozen sweetbreads in cold water 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil them five minutes, drop into 
cold water, remove the skin and lard with fat 
bacon. Put them in a saucepan with a pint of 
stock, two small onions and one carrot chopped, 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, and a little mace. Stew until tender. 

Serve with a mushroom sauce, made as follows : 
Take a small bottle of mushrooms or one dozen 
fresh mushrooms sliced and boil them five min- 
utes in water and Ume juice. Drain and place 
in a stew pan with two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flotir and a pint of well seasoned stock 
or gravy. Cook until the sauce is reduced one- 
half. Pour over the hot sweetbreads. 



39 

• Digitized by Google 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Terrapin 

Boil the terrapin for one hour, and clean care- 
fully. Rub into a paste the yolks of six hard- 
boiled eggs, half the white of one egg chopped, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, three whole cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne 
and mace. Place the terrapin into a stewpan 
with a glass of sherry or madeira and the pre- 
pared paste. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. 
Add three glasses of sherry and madeira and 
allow it to boil once, when it is ready to serve. 

Frogs a la Poulette 

Joint the hind legs and backs of twelve frogs; 
put in a closely covered saucepan with some 
truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass 
of white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace 
and four ounces of butter. Stew gently fifteen 
minutes, stirring once or twice. If then tender, 
add one teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed into one 
ounce of butter. Let it cook two minutes, take 

40 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 



from the fire and stir in the yolks of six eggs 
beaten well with one-half cup of cream. Place 
this mixtxire where it will keep hot without 
cooking. Cut the crust from a loaf of bread, 
scoop out the center, brush with butter and 
brown in the oven. Pour the frogs legs and 
sauce into the bread cup, garnish with mush- 
rooms and truffles. 

Calves' Head en Tortue 
Simmer a calves* head for two hours. Tie the 
brains in a cloth, put them in the saucepan with 
the head and cook two hours longer. Then ex- 
tract the bones and cut the meat in pieces, re- 
turn it to the saucepan without the brains, 
adding two ounces of butter, two dozen stoned 
olives, one dozen cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and a cup of white wine. Cook for one hour, 
then add the brains cut in bits, the shaved peel 
and piece of one lemon and three hard-boiled 
eggs sliced. Cook thirty minutes. Thicken 
the sauce with flour rubbed into butter and serve 
with the calves* head. 

41 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECiim WOtL JEHCTJKgS 

Chops a la Reine 

Trim twelve lamb chops very closely and fry 
lightly in six ounces of butter. Remove them 
and in the same butter place two onions, slice4, 
four green peppers minced, one can of mush- 
rooms minced, and two stalks of celery chopped; 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the juice of a lime. 
Cook until these ingredients are soft. Stir in 
six ounces of flour. Then add two cups of 
milk and cook until the mixture is thick and 
smooth. Dust a plate with cracker crumbs and 
on this place a spoonful of the fried mixture. 
Place a chop on top of this, cover it with an- 
other spoonful of the mixture and dust with 
cracker crumbs. Repeat with each chop, and 
when cold roll each in beaten !^%% and cracker 
crumbs, and fry a light brown. 



42 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ENTREES 



Calves' Feet a la Marechale 

Bofl four calves' feet until tender. Cut into 
inch pieces and fry in four ounces of butter, with 
two onions, a little garlic, two green peppers and 
some mushrooms, chopped fine, seasoning all 
with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. 
Stir in four ounces of flotir and add boiling milk, 
enough to make the mixture as thick as rich 
cream. Put in the calves* feet and mix all well- 
together. Then remove from the fire and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs which have been mixed 
with the juice of a lime and a tablespoonful of 
water. Potir the whole into a buttered pan 
and set aside to cool. When cold cut into 
slices, brush with e%g and bread crumbs and fry 
in butter until a light brown. 



43 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 

Boil chestnuts in salted water for twenty min- 
utes. Shell them, season with salt and pepper, 
add a piece of butter and wet with milk. Mash 
through a colander and heap lightly on a plat- 
ter, arranging broiled chops around the puree. 

4^ 4^ 

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 

Trim carefully one dozen young lamb chops. 
Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of marrow, 
some chopped mtishrooms and eschalots. Then 
add a glass of sherry and stir it well before 
adding also a cup of rice, four cups of stock, 
several sweet Chili peppers chopped and some 
salt. Cook for half an hour or until pasty. 
Pour it out in a pan to the thickness of half an 
inch and let cool. Then with a biscuit cutter, 
cut it into rounds about the size of a chop. On 
each one of these rounds place a chop and cover 
the top with Bechamel sauce. When cold dip 
in egg and bread crumbs and fry a light brown. 

44 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 



A good recipe for the Bechamel sauce is the 
following: One ounce of butter browned with 
one ounce of flour. To this add half a glass of 
sherry, some finely chopped truffles, one cup 
alid a half of stock, salt and pepper, and cook 
for ten minutes. Add the juice of a lime, take 
from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs. 

Devil Chops 

Make a dressing of the following ingredients 
mixed together: One otmce of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of French mustard, one teaspoonfttl of grated 
horseradish, one teaspoonful of chutney, a 
little Chili vinegar, the juice of one lime, salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Rub this on the chops^ 
and broil rare. Serve the remaining sauce over 
them in a very hot dish. 



45 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

ssssassBBSSssss^sssssssssssssassssas^asas^Bssssssssssssssssat 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 
) 
Fry one dozen lamb chops in butter and set 

aside to cool. Put in a stew pan two ounces of 
butter with half a can of mushrooms, one small 
onion and a teaspoonful of parsley, all minced 
fine; salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace. 
Cook this gently for ten minutes and add a cup 
of milk thickened with flour and butter, the 
juice of a lemon and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook a few minutes. Take from the fire and 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Cover 
the chops with this and set aside to cool. Brush 
them with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and fry in 
butter to a light brown. Serve with green peas 
in the center of the dish. 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 

Lard lamb cutlets with strips of truffle, an- 
chovy and gherkin. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, mushrooms, capers, chives, a little 

46 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 

Bse^BaaBsaaaBssBsaBB&ssBS 



shallot all chopped very fine, pepper, salt and 
butter. Put this on each side of the cutlets 
and cover with crepinette. Broil or fry to a 
light brown and dust over with very fine browned 
bread crumbs. Serve with a browned veal 
gravy and sliced lemon. 

Eggs with Tomatoes 

Fry in two otmces of butter two small dry 
onions and two green peppers, chopped. Add 
half a dozen tomatoes peeled and cut up, salt 
and pepper. Simmer fifteen minutes. Add 
the com cut from half a dozen ears, and cook 
fifteen minutes longer. Pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, and break over it six eggs. 
Pl^ce in the oven until set. 

Macaroni a la Rossini 

Cook a pint or less of macaroni in well salted 
water; drain and put into a stew pan, with a 
little good gravy. Simmer very slowly until the 

47 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

gravy is all absorbed, shaking the pan occa- 
sionally. Put a layer of the macaroni in a 
baking dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and sliced truffles mixed with a little 
good sauce espagnole. Fill the dish and on the 
top layer put truffles. Place in the oven a few 
minutes and serve with grated Parmesan cheese 
on a separate dish. 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve 
Persons 

Boil one-half pound of macaroni in water for 
five minutes. Cut in inch length pieces and 
simmer for twenty minutes in one quart of milk, 
being careful that it does not boil. Season with 
salt, pepper, mace and cayenne. Add one cup 
of cream, stir until very smooth, add the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs and one can of mushrooms 
sliced. Stir well and then add the macaroni 
with one potmd of sweetbreads, cut in small 
pieces and two dozen Eastern oysters. Let 
this cool, then cover with pastry and bake in 
the oven until brown. 

48 



Digitized by 



Google 



ENTREES 



Memo 



49 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



50 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 



ENTREES 



Memo 



51 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEtPS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



52 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHICKEN 
AISTD GAME 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Chicken Portuguese 

Truss two young chickens as though for 
roasting. Lay on the bottom of a large stew pan 
the rind of a piece of pork, and on this, place the 
chicken. Add four ounces of butter, a head of 
celery chopped, two onions sliced, three small 
carrots sliced, two ChiU peppers cut up, and the 
halves of two bell peppers from which the seeds 
have been removed. Season with salt, cayenne, 
thyme and a few sweet herbs. Cover and cook 
quickly for forty minutes, moistening from time 
to time with a spoonful of stock or gravy. Then 
add two large tomatoes sliced, and cook twenty 
minutes longer. Serve the chicken with the 
sauce poured over it. 

Chicken with Oysters 

StuflE a young chicken with oyster and a few 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. Truss the fowl, place it in a tin pail 

55 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

with a tight cover. Stand the pail in a kettle 
of boiling water and leave on the fire one hour 
and a half. Remove the chicken and place in a 
dish. Pour the gravy into a saucepan, adding 
two dozen oysters, two hard boiled eggs chopped, 
a wine glass of cream and one ounce of butter, 
into wWch has been rubbed a teaspoonful of 
com starch. Boil for a few moments and pour 
over the chicken. 

This is an excellefit way to cook a young 
turkey. 

Casuela 

Cut a chicken into small pieces and fry it with 
a clove of garlic in a large tablespoonful of lard, 
for ten minutes. Then add one quart of water, 
half a cupful each of green peas, string beans 
and grains of com, and boil one and one-half 
hours. Add three potatoes cut into bits, one 
tablespoonful of rice, salt, pepper and the white 
of one egg. Boil for three-quarters of an hour 

56 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



longer, then remove from the fire. In a tureen 
mix one mashed potato with the yolk of the egg 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Strain the 
broth slowly into this and mix thoroughly be- 
fore adding the chicken and other ingredients. 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 

Cut up a chicken, and season with salt, pep- 
per and a little naace. Dip the pieces into 
beaten egg, then roll in flour and fry in lard and 
butter until brown. Take out the chicken and 
in the pan put a large piece of butter with a 
little flour. As soon as it froths up stir in milk 
until thick. Let it boil a minute and pour over 
the chicken. . 

Chicken with Rice 

Cut up a chicken and stew gently for ten 
minutes in a little water. Add two ounces of 
butter, salt, pepper, mace and a green pepper, 
chopped very fine, stew until done. 

57 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Make a form of boiled rice around a dish and 
lay the chicken in the middle of it. Add to the 
sauce a good piece of butter with a teaspoonful 
of flour rubbed into it and boil two minutes. 
Take from the fire and stir in the yolk of three 
eggs, beaten with a half cup of rich cream. Pour 
over the chicken and serve. 

Chicken with Spaghetti 

Prepare the spaghetti by boiling about three 
pounds in salted water for twenty minutes. 

Stew a chicken in water until tender and pick 
it to pieces, adding enough of the gravy to make 
a quart. Into this put four sliced onions that 
have been fried in two ounces of butter, and one 
quart of tomatoes. Stew for fifteen minutes. 
Place a layer of spaghetti on a platter and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over 
some of the chicken sauce and repeat the layers, 
putting the best of the chicken on top. 

58 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Quail with Celery 

Cut six quail in halves and cover them with 
water in a stewpan, adding strips of salt pork, 
some finely chopped celery, salt and pepper. 
Cook until done. Remove the birds and strain 
the liquor; add to it, two ounces of flour rubbed 
into two otmces of butter, the remainder of the 
head of celery grated, and two cups of milk. 
When it thickens pour over the birds and serve 
very hot. 

Pheasant a la Savarin 

Place on the bottom of a roasting pan two 
slices of bread cut two inches thick. Spread 
over this the pounded Uver and heart of the bird 
with an anchovy, a bit of ham and two truffles 
minced. On this lay the pheasant and roast 
until done. Serve on the cooked bread. 

Nothing but the finest Burgundy should be 
served with this. 

59 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Quail and Onion 

To each quail allow one good sized onion, 
sliced, and half a glass each of oil and vinegar. 
Stew in a covered pot until the birds are tender. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve with any 
good sauce. 

Salmi of Duck with Olives 

Roast for eight minutes two sprig tail ducks, 
take out and cut the meat from the bones. 
Break up the bones. Cover with water in a 
saucepan and cook with a dozen cloves, one 
onion and some chopped celery, to make a 
gravy. When done strain it oflE. To this gravy 
add the meat, two otmces of butter, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, one-half head of celery, cut in strips, 
one teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen 
stoned olives. Cook gently ten minutes, stirring 
it well until smooth. Add a piece of butter 
rolled in brown flour. Stew five minutes and 
serve very hot. 

60 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Stewed Squabs 

Make a stufiBing of the livers and hearts of six 
birds chopped fine, with a little butter, chopped 
pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne and a 
little lemon. Sttiff the squabs with the above. 
Put them in a stew pan and cover with stock 
and stew one-half hour. Take out the birds, 
add salt, cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, one tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, one tablespoonful of lime juice, a large 
glass of port or sherry, and two otmces of butter, 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls of browned 
flour. 

Return the birds to the sauce for ten minutes. 
Fry some thick slices of bread, place a bird on 
each and pour the sauce over them. 



61 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



62 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHICKEN AND GAME 

BSSSBBSBB^B=Si^=SSBB=:SSBIi;S 



Memo 



63 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



64 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 

BSBSBSSBSBSaSS 



Yorkshire Steaks 

Pry in butter several small tenderloin steaks, 
with two onions sliced and one cuctimber sliced. 
When well browned add a pint of stock, salt, 
pepper and cayenne and one teaspoonftil of 
made mustard. Simmer an hour or longer. 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 

Braise a larded filet of beef with what vege- 
tables are in season. Put in a saucepan and 
moisten while cooking with a bottle of good 
claret or sherry. When done garnish the meat 
with macaroni prepared as follows: Boil one- 
half pound of macaroni, cut into three-inch 
lengths and put in a saucepan with some sliced 
mushrooms, one-half pint of good stock, three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat 
of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Toss 
over the fire until well mixed and serve around 
the beef. Strain the vegetables out of the gravy 
and pour over the beef. 

67 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Yorkshire Pudding 

This is to be served with roast beef, and it 
should be baked in the pan of drippings in which 
the beef has cooked. Mix a cup of flour with a 
cup of milk, salt and one egg beaten. Bake 
quicldy and serve at once. 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed 

Cut the remains of a cold roast into pieces, 
flour the pieces and fry in butter tmtil brown. 
Then put them into a saucepan with a cup of 
stock, a glass of port, salt, pepper and cayeime. 
Simmer five minutes and add one tablespoonful 
of lime juice before serving. 

Lobscouse 

Soak four thick slices of corned beef in fresh 
water for two hours. Fry four slices of salt pork 
or bacon. In the fat fry four sliced onions a 

68 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



light brown. Place in a stewpan the beef, 
onions and pork or bacon. Add a dozen sliced 
potatoes, cover with water and season highly 
with pepper. Cover and stew gently until the 
meat is tender. Then break into the stewpan 
four sea biscuits, cook for five minutes longer. 
The liquor may be thickened a little more with 
a tablespoonftd of flour mixed with a little cold 
water. 

Perchero 

Place five pounds of beef in a large pot half 
filled with water. Boil for three hours, having 
seasoned well with salt and pepper. Then add 
a large piece of pumpkin cut in pieces, a pint of 
string beans, a cup of com, a large onion sliced, 
a carrot and a turnip diced, and a bell pepper 
minced. Simmer for half an hour. Then add 
half a cup of rice and one teaspoonfulof saffron. 
Cook for half an hour longer. In another sauce- 
pan boil a cabbage, and in a third pan stew some 

69 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

peeled apples and bananas cut up. Put the 
meat in the center of a platter and place the 
mixed fruits and vegetables around it. 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 

Place in a saucepan three onions sliced, a 
carrot and a potato diced; salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of lime juice or vinegar, with thin 
slices of cold meat. Cover closely and simmer 
for one hour, add half a cup of cold water and 
simmer one hour longer. Season with a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire and thicken the 
gravy with an ounce of flour rubbed into butter. 

Lamb with Macaroni 

Cover the bottom of a baking pan with slices 
of bacon. Place on them a breast of young 
lamb and cover it with slices of bacon and thin 
slices of a peeled lemon. Season with salt and 

70 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



pepper, add a small onion minced and a cup of 
stock. Cover and bake slowly for two hours. 
Boil half a cup of macaroni in gravy to 
which a few peeled tomatoes may be added. 
When tender, place it on a serving dish» lay 
the lamb on it and pour over all the gravy 
which may be thickened with a little flour. 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 

Soak a fresh tongue in cold water for one hour, 
then boil it three hours and remove the skin. 
Place the tongue in a stewpan with half a head 
of cdery, one turnip, one carrot and two onions 
cut in smaU pieces, one dozen cloves, salt and 
cayenne. Simmer for one and one-half hours. 
Take out the tongue and add to the gravy one 
tablespoonful of made mustard, one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, three picketed gherkins chopped, 
one glass of port or red wine, and two ounces 
of butter, creamed with three ounces of browned 
flour. Cook until smooth. Return the tongue 
to the sauce and simmer half an hour. 
71 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Pork Pie 

Cut into small pieces enough pork to fill, a 
baking dish. Season it with salt, pepper and 
mace. Use no water. Cover the meat with a 
thick pastry crust and bake in a slow oven for 
two hours. Make a gravy of the bones and 
scraps of the pork, well seasoned, and pour into 
the pie after it is baked. 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 

Dress a pig of ten weeks old as if to roast. 
Make a stuflSng of the liver, two anchovies, and 
sage leaves all chopped small; bread crumbs, 
four otmces of butter, salt, cayeime and a half 
pint of red wine. Stuff and sew the pig up. 
Roast at an open fire. Put in the dripping pan 
three bottles or more of red wine. Baste the 
pig frequently and when almost done put in the 
pan close to the fire two loaves of bread. Stand, 
the pig in the dish for serving and put a lemon in 
his mouth. Place one of the loaves of bread 

72 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



on each side; to the gravy in the pan add one 
anchovy, one-half lemon and a few sweet herbs, 
all chopped fine. Boil it a few minutes and 
pour over the pig. Lay slices of lemon and 
barberries round the dish. 

To Boil a Ham 

Soak a ham for one hour and clean with a 
brush. Put it in a kettle with plenty of cold 
water and after it boils cook seven hours, skim 
well and always replenish with boiling water. 
After it has boiled three hours add half a hand- 
ftil of whole cloves and at the end of five hours 
add one and a half pints of vinegar. After 
boiUng, skin the ham, sprinkle it with crumbs, 
stick with cloves and roast in a moderate oven, 
thirty minutes, basting with a liquor of half 
vinegar and half water. 



73 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Mexican Tripe > 

Dip a thick honey comb piece of tripe in 
butter, then in crumbs, and broil over a clear fire 
until well done, sprinkling over it whilst cooking 
three or four finely chopped green Chilis. Melt 
in a hot soup plate one ounce of butter, adding 
salt, pepper and cayenne, and one teaspoonful 
of made mustard, rub smooth and add one-half 
teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and the juice of one small 
lime. Lay the tripe in this sauce as soon as it is 
removed from the fire. Serve with buttered 
toast. An excellent prelude to this (fish is 
a plate of onion soup. 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 

Pry a crisp brown, twelve slices of bacon. 
Remove the bacon from the frjdng pan, leaving 
some of the fat. Into this stir two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and a cup of milk; a small onion 

74 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



minced and a dash of pepper. Cook until it is 
smooth. Have six slices of toast ready. On 
each, place two slices of the fried bacon and on 
each a slice of raw tomato. Pour the sauce over 
the toast and bacon and tomato, and serve 
very hot. 



75 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



76 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 
Memo 



77 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



78 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEATS 

Memo 



79 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



80 



Digitized by 



Google 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



SJUCES 



Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 
Melt together in a hot soup plate one ounce 
of butter, and an equal amotint of currant jelly. 
Add the juice of a lime, a glass of sherry and a 
small cupful of finely chopped celery. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 

Take one shallot chopped, salt, cayenne, 
mace, a glass of port or claret, one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, the rind of one-half lime and 
one tablespoonful of lime juice. Boil these in- 
gredients for five minutes. Strain the liquor 
and add to any gravy. 



83 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEiTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

HoUandaise Sauce 

Heat a bowl with boiling water, and wipe dry. 
In it beat quarter of a cup of butter to a cream. 
Add the yolks of two raw eggs, one at a time, 
beating tmtil smooth. Then add a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, salt and cayenne, and beat 
the mixture with a fork or an egg beater, for 
five minutes. Place the bowl in boiling water. 
Stir into the sauce two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, and beat tmtil the sauce is smooth and 
thick as mayonnaise. 

Parsley Butter 

Beat three tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Add half a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 
of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat all together several minutes, when it is 
ready for use. An excellent dressing for fried 
or broiled fish. 



84 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SAUCES 



Green Sauce 

Mix in a bowl a tablespoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, with one table- 
spoonful of Tarragon vinegar and one of cider 
vinegar. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Egg Sauce 

Beat two ounces of butter to a froth. Mix 
into it one tablespoonful of flour and the yolk 
of one egg. Pour a cup of hot water of this 
batter, stirring constantly. Heat over the fire 
until it is thick and smooth, but be careful not 
to boil. Just before serving stir in two hard 
boiled eggs finely chopped. 

Celery Sauce 

Put in a stewpan with salt, cayenne and a 
blade of mace, three grated heads of celery. 
Cover with boiling water. Boil ten minutes 

85 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

and drain. Return to the fire with enough veal 
stock to cover the celery and stew half an hotir. 
Then add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, 
and half a cup of cream. Shake over the fire a 
minute or two and serve at once. 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 

Put in a saucepan half a teacupful of soup 
stock, three ounces of butter, one teaspoonftd 
of salt, one teaspoonftd of made mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of French mustard, two cloves of 
garlic chopped fine, one onion chopped, two 
green peppers and one pickeled gherkin chopped, 
one tomato peeled and cut up, the juice of half 
a lime and half a lime cut in thin sUces. Sim- 
mer for one hour, then add the following: One 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of 
Imperial sauce, one of Tarragon vinegar, two 
of Bon Gout sauce, two of mushroom catsup, 
two of walnut catsup and two tablespoonfuls of 
chutney, add half a pint of sherry and simmer 
for fifteen minutes. 

This will keep several months. 
86 



Digitized by 



Google 



SAUCES 



Onion Sauce 

Boil three good sized onions, one hour. Drain 
and put in a stewpan with one-half pint of milk 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then rub through a sieve and put back 
in the pan with one-half pint of cream and one 
ounce of butter. 

Simmer ten minutes and serve very hot. 

Garlic Sauce 

• Rub together in a mortar until smooth, two 
otmces of butter, two cloves of garlic and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Add a tablespoonful of 
lime juice and one-half a pint of melted butter. 
Beat tmtil light and smooth, when it is ready 
to serve. 



87 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE riLDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Melted Butter 

Take one pint of milk and one teaspoonful 
of salt; when it boils stir into it three ounces of 
butter, a little cayenne and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour rubbed into it. Let it boil one minute 
and serve at once. 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 

Put in a double saucepan the yolks of three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and one tablespoonful of dry mustard. Mix 
well and sift in two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four 
of water. Stir until quite smooth. Place over 
the fire, stirring continually one way. As soon 
as it thickens remove from the fire and beat in 
three otmces of butter. Use when cool. 



8& 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SAUCES 



Memo 



89 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TJLDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



90 



Digitized by 



Google 



SAUCES 
Memo 



91 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOB TILDEhrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



92 



Digitized by 



Google 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 

Boil large choice asparagus until tender. 
Put a layer of stalks upon the dish on which 
they are to be served. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and a little grated Parmesan 
cheese. Make three layers of this and pour 
over all a little melted butter. Break on top a 
fresh Qgg for each person, and put in the oven 
until set. Serve very hot. To be served in- 
dividually, six stalks may be placed on each 
dish, covered with cheese, and an egg broken 
over them. Serve after placing in the oven a 
few moments. 

Corn au Gratin 

Score down twelve ears of boiled com, and 
with the back of a knife press out the kernels. 
Put them into a baking dish with a large piece 
of butter, salt, pepper, a finely chopped green 
pepper and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
or Gruyere cheese. Place in a hot oven until 
just browned and serve immediately. 

95 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEhrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chonfleur au Gratin 

Boil a large cauliflower twenty minutes in 
salted water. When tender drain and put on 
the dish on which it is to be served. Make a 
sauce of two ounces of butter, one otmce of flour 
and half a pint of milk, one otmce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne. Mix this 
well, putting in the cheese last. Pour it over 
the cauliflower and sprinkle more cheese over 
the top. Set in a hot oven tmtil browned and 
serve at once. 

Okra 

Cut the stems ofiE of yotmg okra pods and boil 
in water until the seeds turn red, which should 
be in half an hour. Drain and toss in a pan 
with butter, salt, pepper and cayenne. 



96 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VEGETABLES 



Potato Cream 

Boil six medium-sized, mealy potatoes and 
when soft press them through a sieve tmtil light 
and floury. Then beat into them the raw 
yolks of six eggs and a Jittle milk and butter. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with 
finely chopped chevril and thyme, and fine dice 
of fried bread before serving. 

a* ^ 

Sweet Potatoes 

Take six good sized sweet potatoes and boil 
until nearly done. Then peel them and roll in 
melted butter, lay in a buttered baking pan. 
Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake until done. 

Chili Beans 

Take four cups of red beans, one onion, four 
cloves of garlic, cover with water and cook all 
day in a covered saucepan. Add a little water 

97 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

from time to time if too dry. Cook slowly four 
red peppers and five black peppers with seeds 
out, three black peppers with seeds, four cloves 
of garlic, four onions with the hearts taken out, 
salt, and one cup of beef stock. Rub through 
a sieve. Put in a saucepan four tablespoonftds 
of marrow. When very hot add the beans and 
then the sauce. 

To Boil Rice 

Have plenty of salted water, with the juice 
of a lime in it. When boiling add rice that has 
been washed in three waters. Boil fast for 
sixteen minutes. Try a grain, and if done dash 
in a glass of cold water. Drain at once through 
a colander. Cover with a cloth and let stand 
by the fire for a few minutes, shaking up the 
colander once or twice. This will make every 
grain separate. 

98 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VEGETABLES 



Risotto 

Fry two chopped onions in butter until light 
brown in color. Add one cup of raw rice and 
cover with beef stock. As the rice absorbs the 
stock add more until done. Then add two large 
tomatoes stewed with a little sugar and highly 
seasoned. Place on the dish for serving and 
grate Parmesan cheese over it. 



99 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



100 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 
Memo 



101 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEKTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



102 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



SJLJDS 



Club Salad 

Boil separately two carrots, two turnips, and 
four potatoes. When cold, cut the vegetables 
into dice and mix them together, adding three 
apples peeled and cut into small bits. Toss in a 
large salad bowl with several olives for garnish. 
Bits of celery or cold cauliflower may be added. 
Pour over all a mayonnaise, or if preferred, a 
French dressing. Another dressing that is 
excellent with this salad is one made of the 
yolks of four raw eggs beaten into half a glass of 
rich cream which may be either sweet or sour. 
To this add one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
mustard and a wineglassful of vinegar, blending 
carefully. 

Winter Salad 

Cut the white stalks of a head of celery into 
small bits. Mix with two boiled potatoes cut 
in dice, two or three boiled beets cut in dice, a 
large white onion boiled and cut up, some 

105 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

chopped truffles, anchovies and stoned olives, 
a tablespoonftil or more of each. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 

Cheese Straws to Serve vv^ith Salad 

Make a paste of two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, two otmces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, the yolk of one egg, salt and cayenne. Roll 
out the paste until about one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Cut into very narrow strips and place 
on a buttered tin. Bake ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 



106 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SALADS 
Memo 



107 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



108 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 
AND CAKES 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Mince Meat 

Measure carefully and mix together the fol- 
lowing ingredients: Two pounds of roast beef 
finely chopped, two pounds of chopped beef 
suet, two pounds of chopped peeled apples, two 
pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds Sultana 
raisins, two pounds of washed currants, two 
pounds of white sugar, one pound of citron cut 
in bits, one pound of dried orange peel, two 
nutmegs grated, three teaspoonftds of ground 
mace, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
three teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind and jtiice of 
two oranges, one quart of brandy, one quart of 
sherry and one glass of blackberry jelly. After 
ndxing thoroughly place the mince meat in a 
stone jar and use it from this. 

Hot Zabajone 

Beat well together the yolks of six eggs, and 
half a cup of sugar. Heat in a double saucepan, 
being careful to stir only one way. Place in a 

Hi 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

strainer the shaved peel of three oranges. 
Through this pour" slowly into the eggs a quart 
of champagne (-v^hite wine may be substituted) , 
and allow the mixture to thicken. Serve hot 
in champagne glasses. 

Frozen Zabajone 

Mix the same as for hot zabajone, adding 
another half cup of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of orange juice. When it is cold half freeze in 
a freezer. Then remove and place in paper 
<jases or moulds, on the ice. 

Genoise Pastry 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter and half a 
-cup of sugar. Break into the cream three eggs, 
one at a time, and mix until smooth. Stir in 
half a cup of flour. Pour out on a buttered tin 
And bake ten or fifteen minutes. When cold 
112 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



spread thickly with apricot jam and cover with 
chocolate icing. Set in the oven a few moments, 
then put aside to cool. Cut into odd shapes 
before serving. 

Omelette Souffle 

Beat to a cream the yolks of six eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Place in a frying pan over the fire 
four ounces of butter. When it is melted mix the 
yolks and whites together and stir quickly into 
the pan. As soon as the eggs have absorbed 
the butter, pour them into a buttered baking 
dish and set in a hot oven for six or seven min- 
utes. Serve at once. 

Marmalade Pudding 

Cream half a cup of sugar and two teaspoon- 
fuls of butter. Beat into this the yolks of four 
eggs and one cup of cream or ndlk. Add a cup 

113 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

of j5ne bread crumbs and the beaten whites of 
the eggs; then a cup of orange marmalade, or 
some other fruit marmalade. Pour into a but- 
tered mould and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Turn out of the mould and serve with 
a brandy sauce, or cream. 

Amherst Pudding 

Line a baking dish with thinly rolled pie crust 
or puff paste. Fill with the following mixture. 
A small cup of butter creamed with two cups of 
sugar and beaten up with four or five eggs, a 
cupful of finely chopped apple added, with the 
grated rind and jtiice of a lemon and a little 
water. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake for 
half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Brown Betty 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with bread 
crumbs, over which place a layer of thinly sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and 

114 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



small pieces of butter, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
then cover with bread crumbs and repeat the 
layers until the dish is filled, having a layer of 
crumbs sprinkled with bits of butter on top. 
Then pour over all three-quarters of a cup 
of molasses thinned with a Uttle hot water. 
Bake until the apples are tender and the top is 
well browned. 

Chocolate Pudding 

Grate one-half a pound of Baker's chocolate, 
and melt it in half a pint of hot milk. Stir into 
the milk also half a cup of bread crumbs, one cup 
of powdered sugar and the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Wet a melon mould in cold water and 
pour the mixture into it. Boil three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve with cream, or the following 
sauce: Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. 
Heat a cup of wine and a cup of sugar until the 
sugar is melted. Remove from the fire and stir 
in the eggs quickly. 

115 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 

Butter thickly some slices of bread and lay in 
a baking dish. Cover them with thick black 
molasses and bake slowly. The pudding should 
be served hot, with thick cream. 

Baked Bananas 

Put into a bowl .three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, six of sugar, and three of wine. Set the 
bowl in hot water to melt the butter. Peel 
the fruit and lay it in a baking pan. Pour 
over it the ndxture in the bowl, and bake half 
an hour, basting several times. 

Hermits 

Cream two cups of sugar and one cup of 
butter. Add three well beaten eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Sift into this six cups 

116 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



of flour and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg and clove. Add last a cup of chopped 
raisins. Roll the dough out about one-quarter 
of an inch thick, cut into small squares and 
bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 
Cream one pound of sugar and half a pound 
of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of eight 
eggs separately, and add the beaten yolks to 
the butter and sugar. Stir in half a pint of 
milk and one pound of flour with four tear 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and bake in three layers. 
For the filling, boil three cups of powdered 
sugar and three-quarters of a cup of water for 
five ndnutes. Beat four eggs, the yolks and 
whites together, and into them stir the boiling 
syrup, add two cups of chopped raisins and 
two cups of almonds, chopped and blanched. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread thickly between 
the layers of cake. Cover with white frosting. 

117 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Silver Cake 

Beat lightly the whites of eight eggs. Cream 
two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter. 
Stir into the eggs, adding three-fourths of a 
cup of milk. Sift into the batter three cups 
of flour and one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Gold Cake 

Cream a cup of sugar and three-fourths of a 
cup of butter. Mix into this the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs and half a cup of milk. Last add 
one and a half cups of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in a long 
bread tin. 

Fig Filling for Cake 

Chop together one pound of dried figs and 
one cup of seeded raisins. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon and sugar to taste. 

118 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS AND CJKES 

BB^iaaBBBBaaBSSSSSSBSSaSSSBSSSB 



Pour over the mixture a cup of water and heat 
thoroughly, mixing it over the fire. Spread 
between layers of white cake. 

Thin Gingerbread 

Place in a saucepan one pint of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and let them boil 
together for a moment. Then remove from 
the fire, and when nearly cool stir in flour 
enough to make a thick batter or dough. 
Spread thinly on tins and bake quickly. 



119 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



120 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Memo 



121 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



122 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINE CUPS 
and PUNCHES 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 



Champagne Cup I 

Pour on a sliced cucumber one pint of sherry 
and one-half pint of brandy. Grate the rind 
of two lemons over a little sugar. Add itl;o 
the mixture with the juice of one lemon and 
the juice of three oranges, half a pint of 
Curacao, two bottles of seltzer, three bottles 
of apollinaris and three bottles of cham- 
pagne. Sweeten to taste and ice well. 

Champagne Cup II 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the juice and shaved peel of a lemon, a few 
slices of cucumbers, one wine glass of Curacao, 
one quart of apollinaris and one quart of 
champagne. Pour over a block of ice in a 
punch bowl. 



125 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Champagne Cup III 

Rub three ounces of sugar on lemon peel and 
put in a punch bowl with the juice of four 
lemons, one quart of apoUinaris, and one 
quart of orgeat. Beat this well. Then add 
one pint of brandy, half a glass of Jamaica 
rum and a glass of Maraschino. Strain into a 
bowl of ice and just before serving, pour in 
three quarts of champagne. 

Champagne Cup IV 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar rubbed on the 
peel of a lemon and mixed with the juice of 
half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, one 
wine glass each of Maraschino and brandy 
and a quart each of apoUinaris and champagne. 
Ice well. 



126 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

aaaaaaassaasaaaa aaaaasasBsaaaaaaaaaaaB 

Champagne Cup V 

Rub two ounces of sugar over the peel of an 
orange. Mix with it the juice of an orange, 
two wine glasses of sherry, one wine glass of 
Maraschino, and a quart each of apollinarisand 
champagne. Add a few slices of cucumber 
and plenty of ice. 

Hock Cup ' 

Pour over a block of ice in a punch bowl, a 
wine glass of Maraschino, two quarts of apol- 
linaris, two quarts of sparkling hock and the 
juice of two lemons. Sweeten with two 
ounces of sugar. 

Badminton Claret Cup 

Rub six lumps of sugar on a lemon, strain 
the juice of the lemon over the sugar and add 
a glass of good sherry, two sprigs of verbena, 

127 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

a few slices of cucumber and a quart of claret. 
Place in the bowl a large piece of ice, and when 
ready to serve add a quart of sparkling mineral 
water. 

Moselle Cup 

Place the following ingredients in a punch 
bowl, with a block of ice, two ounces of sugar, 
the shaved peel of half an orange, three peaches 
sliced, a small pineapple sliced, half a dozen 
apricots, a wine glass of sherry, a quart of 
sparkling Moselle and a quart of apoUinaris. 

Sauterne Cup 

Pour in a punch bowl, with ice, a quart each 
of sauterne, apoUinaris and champagne, a wine 
glass of Chartreuse and two tablespoopfuls of 
sugar. 

128 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 



Champagne Punch 

In a bowl place one sliced orange, one lime 
sliced very thin, and the juice of another lime, 
one-fourth of a pineapple sliced, and one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar. Let stand twelve 
hours. Put a large block of ice in a punch 
bowl, add the above ingredients with a wine 
glass of Maraschino, two tumblers of sauteme, 
a wine glass of raspberry syrup, and last of all, 
one quart of champagne, a few whole straw- 
berries and a claret glass of Benedictine may 
also be added. 

'^T'' Punch 

Slice a whole pineapple and three lemons, 
and place in a punch bowl with the juice only 
of nine other lemons, add two pounds of sugar, 
and let these ingredients stand several hours. 
Then add one quart each of green tea, Jamaica 
rum, brandy, claret, a pint of Curacao, and 

129 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEJSrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

allow it to stand another hour. Then place 
in the punch bowl with a large block of ice, 
and pour in six quarts of champagne. 

New York Club Punch 

Take two pounds of lump sugar and squeeze 
over it the juice of one dozen lemons, using a 
little of the grated rind. Let this stand three 
hours, then strain the syrup through two thick- 
nesses of flannel and set away on ice. Just 
before serving add one quart each of brandy, 
Jamaica rum, Madeira and water. 

Milk Punch 
Take the juice and shaved peel of two dozen 
lemons, mix with five quarts of water, three 
pounds of loaf sugar and six quarts 6f rum. 
Stir tintil the sugar is dissolved, then add two 
quarts of boiling milk and allow the mixture 
to stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
twice through a cloth. 

130 



Digitized by 



Google 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Apple Toddy I 

Bake slowly two dozen cored apples until 
done. Place in a large stone jar with eight 
pounds of sugar. Pour over thejm four gallons 
of boiling water and let stand for forty-eight 
hours. Then remove the apples and crush 
them after taking off the skins. Return the 
fine pulp to the jar, and add one gallon of 
whiskey, one gallon of brandy, one gallon of 
peach brandy and three pints of Jamaica rum. 
The toddy should stand in the covered jar for 
a week before being used. 

Apple Toddy II 

Prepare six cored apples by sticking a dozen 
cloves in each and baking slowly until soft. 
Put them in a stone jar and pour over them a 
toddy made of two quarts of whiskey, one 
quart of brandy, one pint of rum and three 
cups of water, sweeten to taste and cover 
closely, allowing the mixture to blend for a 
week before using. 

131 



Digitized by 



Google 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



132 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



INDEX 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS p^^ 

■^^ Onion Soup 3 

Palestine Soup 3 

Black Bean Soup 4 

Parker House Tomato Soup 5 

Celery Soup 5 

Bisque of Prowns or Shrimps 6 

LoMterSoup 6 

Venison Soup . 7 

Puree of Venison 8 

Clear Soup Stock 9 

.- Daniel Webster's Chowder 9 

Scott's Chowder 10 

Marblehead Chowder 1 11 

Clam Chowder I 12 

Clam Chowder II _. 13 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder ~ 13 

FISH 

Oysters a la Marechale 21 

Toasted Angels >— 21 

Oyster Pates 22 

Scalloped Clams 22 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry 23 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 24 

Shrimps with Tomato 24 

Saute of Shrimps 26 

Crab a la Creole 26 

Sole alaNormandie 26 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian - 27 

Baked Sole 27 

Flounders a la liagouze — 28 

Sahnon a la Mdv3le — 29 

Stewed Haddock 29 

Bacalas a la Viscaina 30 

Baked Sardines 30 

Sardines with Cheese 31 

Scalloped Fish Roe 32 

Kedffcree 32 

Bowllabaise 33 

ENTREES 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms --- 39 

Terrapin --- - 40 

Frogs a la Poulette 40 

Calves' Head en Tortue 41 

Chops ala Reine - - - 42 

Calves' Feet a la Marechale - - 43 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 44 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX— Continued 

Page 

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 44 

Devil Chops -.. 46 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 46 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 46 

Eggs with Tomatoes 47 

Macaroni a la Rossini _ 47 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve Persons ^ 48 

CHICKEN AND GAME 

Chicken Portuguese 66 

Chicken with Oysters 66 

Casuela 66 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 67 

Chicken with Rice — * 67 

Chicken with Spaghetti ^ 68 

Quail with Celery - 69 

Pheasant a la Savarin 69 

Quail and Onion 60 

Sahni of Duck with Olives.^ 60 

Btewed Squabs 61' 

MEATS 

Yorkshire Steaks > 67 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 67 

Yorkshire Pudding 68 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed 68 

Lobseouse - 68 

Perchero 69 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 70 

Lamb with Macaroni 70 

Stewed Fresh Tongue ^ 71 

Pork Pie 72 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 72 

To Boil a Ham 73 

Mexican Tripe . 74 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 74 

SAUCES 

Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 83 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 83 

Hollandaise Sauce... 84 

Parsley Butter 84 

Green Sauce 86 

Egg Sauce . 86 

Celery Sauce 86 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 86 

Onion Sauce 87 

Garlic Sauce 87 

Melted Butter 88 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 88 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX— Continued 

YEQETABLES Pa«e 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 05 

Com au Gratin 96 

Ghonfleur au Gratin - 96 

--Okra - 96 

Potato Cream 97 

Sweet Potatoes 97 

Chili Beans 97 

To Boil Rice 98 

Risotto - 99 

SALADS 

Club Salad 105 

Winter Salad ~ 106 

- - Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad ^ 106 

DESSERTS AND CAKES 

Mince Meat Ill 

Hot Zabajone - Ill 

Frosen Zabajone 112 

Genoise Pastir- - 112 

Omelette Souffle 113 

Marmalade- Pudding 113 

Amherst Pudding 114 

Brown Betty 114 

Chocolate Pudding 115 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 116 

Baked Bananas 116 

Hermits 116 

Lady Baltimore Cake 117 

Silver Cake 118 

GoW Cake 118 

Kg Filling for Cake 118 

Thm Gingerbread — 119 

WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup I 126 

Champagne Cup 11 126 

Champagne Cup III ^ 126 

Cfaampsgne Cup IV 126 

Champagne Cup V 127 

Hock Cup 127 

Badminton Claret Cup 127 

Moselle Cup 128 

Sauteme Cup. 128 

Champagne Punch - - 129 

"T" Punch ^ 129 

New Yoik Club Punch .-- 130 

Milk Punch 130 

Apple Toddy 1 131 

Apple Toddy II 131 



Digitized by 



Google 



\ 



^ \ 



Digitized by 



Google 



; 



Digitized by 



Google 



; v> 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 





Digitized by 



Google 



BERKELEY 

LIBRARY 

UNlVERSm OF 
CALIFORNIA 

1GRIC.REF. 
SERVICE 



Joe Tilden's Recipes 
for Epicures 



JOE TILDEN'S 

RECIPES FOR 

EPICURES 




A. M. ROBERTSON 

SAN FRANCISCO 

1907 



AG2IC.RSF* 
SERVICE 



COPYRIGHT BY 

A. M. ROBERTSON 

1907 



THE SEQUOIA PRESS 
BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA 



TX 



Introductory Note 



Major Joseph Tilden was in his time one of the most 
famous Bohemians and epicureans of the Pacific Coast. 
Ever since his death his many friends have been trying 
to learn the culinary secrets which made a repast of 
his devising so delicious. He had given his recipes to 
but few, and those few his most intimate friends and 
fellow spirits. One of the most favored of his old 
companions has given this complete collection of his 
recipes for publication. 

San Francisco, May, 1907. 



507 



SOUPS AND 
CHOWDERS 




_ SOUPS AND CHOWDERS _ 

Onion Soup 

Place six ounces of butter in a large saucepan 
over the fire, and stir into it four large white 
onions cut up, not sliced. Stew this very slowly 
for one hour, stirring frequently to prevent its 
scorching. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
about one quart of stock, and cook one hour 
longer. Then stir into the mixture one and a 
half cups of milk and simmer for a few minutes. 
Have ready a soup tureen. In it beat the yolks- 
of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir the hot soup into this, 
beating until it thickens a little. A slice of 
toasted French bread should be placed in each 
plate, and the soup poured over it. 



Palestine Soup 

Slice two or three Jerusalem artichokes and 
place in two quarts of boiling water. Cook for 
one and one-half hours. Then rub the arti- 
chokes through a colander and add to them one 

3 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pint of the water in which they were boiled. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 
the same amount of butter. Add two cups of 
milk and boil for ten minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve with croutons. 



Black Bean Soup 

Soak over night one quart of black turtle 
beans in water to cover them. In the morning 
strain and boil them in four quarts of water for 
one hour, skimming frequently. Then put into 
the liquor two white onions sliced, two stalks of 
celery cut into bits, salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
one teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 
Boil for three hours. Remove from the stove 
and add enough stock to thin the mixture to 
the consistency of a cream soup. Pour into it 
nearly a tumbler of sherry and add a thinly sliced 
lime. Place over the fire to boil for five minutes. 
Just before serving stir into the soup three hard- 
boiled eggs, finely chopped. Force meat balls 
may be added. 

4 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Parker House Tomato Soup 

Put into a saucepan five pounds of tomatoes, 
either fresh or canned, with one quart of water, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and three ounces of butter, 
rubbed into one heaping tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook slowly one hour. Remove from the fire 
and rub through a sieve. Place over the fire 
again and add one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of rice flour which has been dissolved in a little 
water. Let it come to a boil, when it is ready 
to serve. 



Celery Soup 

Boil one small cupful of rice in three pints of 
milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, 
until it is tender. Then rub it through a sieve 
and add one quart of veal stock, salt, cayenne, 
and three heads of celery (the white stalks only) 
which have been previously grated. Boil until 
the celery is tender. 

5 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bisque of Prawns or Shrimps 

Boil three dozen prawns twenty minutes in 
salted water to cover them. Meanwhile in two 
small tablespoonfuls of butter, fry an onion and 
a carrot sliced, and a small piece of salt pork 
chopped. Take the prawns out of the boiling 
water and add to it the fried mixture with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs and one-half the 
prawns added again. Simmer one hour. Pound 
the shells of the prawns in a mortar with a little 
butter, to form a smooth paste. Stir this into 
the soup and boil twenty minutes. Strain 
through a sieve. Add one quart of milk and 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred into a 
little of the cold milk. Let it boil up, and serve. 
It should be as thick as rich cream. 



Lobster Soup 

Pick the meat from a five pound lobster and 
pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a 
little milk or cream. When perfectly smooth, 

6 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley (if liked) , cayenne and mace. 
Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
mix this with the yolk of an egg and fry it in 
butter. Mix the rest of the pounded lobster 
with two quarts of milk and rub through a 
sieve. Put this in a saucepan and simmer ten 
minutes. Add two ounces of butter and stir 
until melted and smooth. Pour over the fried 
balls in the tureen and serve very hot. 

& & 
Venison Soup 

Cut six pounds of lean venison into medium 
sized pieces and place in a soup kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, to which add two dozen 
cloves and four blades of mace. Boil slowly 
three hours. Then add two pounds of venison, 
cut into pieces about an inch square and one 
dozen force meat balls. Boil for thirty min- 
utes. Then season with salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and half a glass of lime juice, letting the soup 
cook ten minutes longer. It should be served 

7 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

in hot bowls in each of which is poured a half 
glass of port before serving. Crisp croutons 
may be added. 



Puree of Venison 

Cut up the remains of venison that had been 
roasted for a former dinner, put a few slices of 
ham into a stew pan, then the venison, two whole 
onions, a blade of mace, two quarts of stock, 
and a small piece of a sprig of thyme, parsley, 
and two cloves. Set it on the stove to simmer, 
two hours or more. Strain it off, and pull all 
the meat to pieces. Pound it with the lean ham 
that was boiled with it, the crust of two French 
rolls which has been soaked in consomme. 
Rub the whole through a colander with a glass 
of claret or port and enough consomme to bring 
it to the consistency of cream. Put it back on 
the fire in a double boiler. Stir a little butter 
into it, and serve with bread fried in dice. 

8 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Clear Soup Stock 

To four pounds of beef add six quarts of cold 
water and place over the fire. Just before it 
boils, skim it carefully. Then add two cups of 
cold water and skim again, repeating this for a 
third skimming. Allow it to simmer slowly for 
three hours. Then add the vegetables; eight 
ounces each of cut up carrots, onions and turnips, 
and three ounces of celery, with salt and pepper. 
Simmer three hours longer. The stock should be 
strained before using, and while cooking it 
should not be allowed to boil. 



Daniel Webster's Chowder 

Fry with some slices of pork, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sliced onions, to a light brown. Put them 
in a deep iron pot with six pounds of cod sliced, 
one quart of boiled mashed potatoes, one pound 
and a half of broken sea biscuit, fifty oysters, 
one teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of 
summer savory, one-half a bottle of mushroom 

9 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

catsup, one bottle of port or claret, one-half a 
nutmeg, one dozen cloves, a little mace and all- 
spice, one half a lemon sliced, pepper and salt. 
Cover with one inch of water and cook slowly 
until done. 

& & 
Scott's Chowder 

Cover the bottom of a deep pot with slices of 
pork cut very thin. Add a layer of fish sliced 
and seasoned with salt and pepper, a layer of 
onions parboiled and quartered, a layer of toma- 
toes sliced and seasoned, a layer of thickly sliced 
potatoes and a layer of broken sea biscuit. 
Repeat the layers until the pot is filled. Just 
cover the fish with water and cook one hour very 
slowly. Add one pint of claret, cook one-half 
hour longer and serve. 



10 



SO UPS AND CHOWDERS 



Marblehead Chowder 

Cut half a pound of salt pork into dice and 
place two-thirds of it in a deep saucepan; fry 
a light brown. Remove it and in the fat fry 
two large onions sliced. Cover the bottom of 
the pot with slices of raw cod or bass 
mixed with some of the fried pork and onions. 
On this place another layer of sliced 
fish mixed with a few pieces of raw pork, 
and slices of raw onion, salt and pepper; over 
this a layer of sliced raw potatoes. Repeat 
these layers until the pot is about two-thirds 
full, when the mixture should be covered with 
warm water, or preferably a stock made of the 
heads and tails of the fish. After the chowder 
comes to a boil, let it cook for forty-five minutes. 
Then add some broken sea biscuit, and boil 
fifteen minutes longer. In another saucepan 
place a quart of milk and heat it to the boiling 
point. Then stir into it two ounces of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter. When it 
thickens a little, pour it over the chowder and 
serve. 

11 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR, EPICURES 

The recipe will take about four pounds of 
fish, half a pound of pork, six onions, six po- 
tatoes, four sea biscuits, two ounces each of but- 
ter and flour and a quart of milk. 



Clam Chowder I 

Have one hundred clams still in the shell. 
Boil them in a quart of water until the shells 
open. Take the clams out of the kettle, saving 
the water in which they were boiled. Remove 
them from the shells, discarding all but the soft 
part. Take six slices of salt pork and cut into 
dice. Fry until crisp and a light brown. Re- 
move from the saucepan and in the fat fry four 
onions sliced. Then add the water strained 
from the clams and the fried pork. To this add 
six potatoes cut in small pieces and two green 
peppers chopped or finely sliced. Boil the mix- 
ture fifteen minutes before putting in the clams 
and four sea biscuits, broken into pieces. Then 
boil for fifteen minutes longer and add a quart 
12 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



of milk. Have half a cup of bread crumbs 
rubbed into four ounces of butter. Stir this in 
as the chowder heats after the milk has been 
added. When it boils, it is ready to serve. 
J* & 

Clam Chowder II 

In a saucepan fry two slices of salt pork and 
when brown, add four potatoes and four onions 
cut up. Fry ten minutes and add three pints 
of water, salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. 
Then add one quart of clams from which the 
tough portions have been removed. Also two 
sea biscuits which have been soaked until they are 
soft. Cook ten minutes. For this recipe, 
canned clams may be used. 
A* J* 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 

Take the meat of a good sized crab, a tum- 
blerful of shrimps and a clove of garlic. Chop 
all very fine and make into small force meat 
balls with a beaten egg. Fry them a light brown 
in butter, and serve in any fish chowder or soup. 

13 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



14 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 
Memo 



15 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



16 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 
Memo 



17 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



18 



FISH 




_ FISH _ 
Oysters a la Marechale 

Stew very gently in four ounces of butter 
some thinly sliced truffles and mushrooms. 
After cooking ten minutes add salt, white pep- 
per, cayenne and mace. Stir in four large 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well together 
while it thickens. Put in the liquor of the 
oysters which has been scalded and skimmed. 
Then add milk (boiling) enough to make it as 
thick as cream. Take from the fire and stir in 
the yolks of four eggs beaten well with the juice 
of a lime and a tablespoonful of water. 

Cover each oyster thickly with some of the 
mixture and allow it to cool. Then roll twice 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry to a 
light brown in butter and serve very hot. 



Toasted Angels 

Sprinkle cayenne and a few drops of lime 
juice over as many large oysters as are required, 
then wrap each oyster in a thin strip of bacon 

21 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

or fat salt pork. Fasten with a wooden tooth- 
pick and broil until the bacon is crisp. Serve 
very hot on squares of buttered toast. 



Oyster Pates 

Rub together one ounce of butter and one 
teaspoonful of flour. Melt this in a saucepan 
and add salt, mace and cayenne. Stir gently 
a few minutes, until smooth. Then add slowly 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Strain two dozen 
oysters and add the liquor very slowly, stirring 
all the time. When it boils up, put in the 
oysters, cook three minutes and fill the pat6 
shells. Serve very hot. 



Scalloped Clams 

Wash clean one hundred ' clams. Use soft 
part whole and the tough part chopped fine. 
Put a layer on the bottom of a buttered baking 

22 



_ FISH _ 

dish. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a 
little mace and sprinkle over plenty of stale 
bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Put 
plenty of butter on top and pour in a cup of the 
water from the clams. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour, and when half done pour in a 
tumbler of sherry. 



Shrimp or Oyster Curry 

Melt four ounces of butter and fry in it four 
young onions and a clove of garlic chopped. 
Add the juice of two limes. Stir into this one 
teaspoonful of corn starch, two tablespoonfuls 
of curry powder and half a cup of cream with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Stir this rapidly over the 
fire until very thick. Thin with milk until it is 
the proper consistency, then add a large cup of 
picked shrimps, and as many oysters. Cook 
two minutes after it boils. 



23 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 

Place two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan and brown over the fire. 
Stir into this one cup of stock, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped raw ham, a 
slice of onion, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Strain the same and add to it a cup of shrimps. 
Simmer again for a few moments and add a 
teaspoonful of tomato or mushroom catsup. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve in 
timbale cases. 



Shrimps with Tomato 

Stew half a dozen large tomatoes with a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a piece of butter, 
salt, pepper and cayenne. Put this through a 
sieve until it is very smooth. Fill a baking 
dish with picked shrimps, pour the tomato 
over them, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
bits of butter, and bake until brown. 

24 



_ _ FISH _ 

Saute of Shrimps 

Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan with a 
little flour, salt and cayenne. Just as it turns 
dark, put in a glass of white wine, a pound of 
picked shrimps, a little lemon juice, and if 
liked, a bit of anchovy sauce. Take from the 
fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Pour into cup-shaped pieces of fried bread, and 
serve very hot. 



Crab a la Creole 

Fry in four ounces of butter, four young 
onions, one clove of garlic and two green pep- 
pers, all chopped fine. Cook until soft and add 
one tomato cut up, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Stew until smooth and add one teaspoonful of 
flour, a little cream or rich milk, and the meat 
picked from two crabs. Boil a few moments 
and serve with buttered toast. 



25 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Sole a la Normandie 

Take a large sole (one without a roe). Re- 
move the back skin and with a sharp knife very 
carefully cut out the side fins, lay it on the dish 
in which it is to be served, one that may be 
placed in the oven. Brush the fish with melted 
butter. Insert in the flesh 'of the fish some 
small slices of truffle. Sprinkle it with salt, 
white pepper, a very little mace and dust it all 
over with fine crumbs. Pour around it a 
tumbler of good white wine. Place in a mod- 
erate oven and cook until nearly done, twenty 
minutes or longer, if the fish be large. Take it 
out and put around the edge of the dish a row of 
croutons, brushing them with the white of an 
egg to make them adhere to the dish. Then 
scatter over and around the fish, a small can of 
mushrooms, sliced, oysters, mussels, picked 
shrimps and some quenelles. Add a little more 
melted butter and a few more crumbs, add more 
white wine and put back in the oven for five 
minutes. 



26 



FISH 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian 

Cut a sole or flounder into four filets. Roll 
each one up, stuffing with a mixture of sal 
piquant sauce. Roll around each a thin slice 
of pork and fasten with a skewer. Stand on end 
in a baking pan and put a small piece of butter 
and a slice of lemon on each and bake until 
done. 

Fry together for five minutes, chopped escha- 
lots, parsley, chevril, herbs, butter, salt and 
cayenne. Take from the fire and stir in a little 
lime juice and anchovy sauce. 

A* J* 

Baked Sole 

Skin the slack side of the fish and lay in a 
baking pan. Brush with beaten egg, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and pour over them some 
melted butter. Cover the fish with a layer of 
thin slices of pork or bacon. Add one-half pint 
of water and bake half an hour. To make the 

27 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

sauce, take the liquor from the baking pan, add 
to it salt, pepper, cayenne, the juice of one lime, 
a wine glass of sherry, a tablespoonful of mush- 
room or walnut catsup, and a piece of butter 
the size of an egg with a little flour rubbed into 
it. Allow it to boil once and pour over the fish. 



Flounders a la Magouze 

Place several fish into a baking pan with a 
glass of white wine, salt, pepper, and an ounce 
of butter. While they are cooking break three 
eggs into half a pint of cream, and beat until it 
is light. When the fish is done remove them 
from the pan and stir the eggs and cream into 
the gravy. Simmer for two minutes, and pour 
over the fish, serving at once. 



28 



_ FISH _ 

Salmon a la Melville 

Put slices of salmon into a baking pan with a 
little white wine and water. Sprinkle with salt 
and bits of butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 

For a sauce, blanch some very finely chopped 
young onions. Put them in a saucepan with a 
wine glass of white wine, salt, cayenne, a cup of 
picked shrimps, a lemon cut in thin slices, and 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Then 
add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled 
in a very little flour. Remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce 
over the fish and serve. 



Stewed Haddock 

Lay pieces of fish in a pan with the skin side 
up. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and cover 
tightly, allowing the fish to stew in its juice for 
twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a 

29 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pound of butter rolled in flour, and a quarter 
of a glass of wine. Stir the liquor and simmer 
for a few moments, when it is ready to serve. 
No water should be used. 



Bacalas a la Viscaina 

Soak half a salt codfish over night. Put in a 
saucepan one-half cup of olive oil, and two large 
onions cut in bits. When browned add two 
large tomatoes cut up. Stew slowly fifteen 
minutes, adding a little black pepper. Put in 
the fish picked to pieces and cook slowly^half 
an hour. Serve on a platter, with some fried 
whole green peppers on top. 



Baked Sardines 

Remove the skins from large boned sardines 
and heat in the oven on strips of toast. Make 
a sauce as follows: Pour the oil from the sar- 

30 



_ FISH _ 

dines into a saucepan and heat it well. Then 
stir in an ounce of flour, adding a small cup 
of hot water. Season this with a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, salt and paprika. 
Beat the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and one of mustard. Stir this into the 
sauce after it is removed from the fire. Pour 
over the sardines and serve. 



Sardines with Cheese 

Drain the sardines and lay them on strips of 
toast or crisply fried bread. Cover thickly with 
Parmesan cheese and bake in a hot oven until 
light brown in color. Remove and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and pour over all plenty 
of lemon juice. Serve very hot. 



31 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Scalloped Fish Roe 

Boil three large roes in water with a very little 
vinegar for ten minutes. Remove from the 
fire and plunge into cold water, wipe the roe 
dry and break into bits without crushing. 
Have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. 
Mash them into a cup of drawn butter with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy paste, the juice of half a lemon and a cup 
of bread crumbs. Mix very lightly with the 
broken fish roe. Place in a baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and 
brown in the oven. 



Kedgeree 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice and drain it as 
dry as possible. Have ready a cupful of cooked 
fish of any sort broken into pieces. Mix it 
thoroughly with the rice and heat over the fire ; 
season with salt and pepper. Beat an egg 
lightly and stir into it. Serve at once. 

32 



FISH 

Bouillabaise 

The fish used for bouillabaise may be any kind 
of firm white fish, and for the following recipe, 
about two pounds are required. Heat in a soup 
kettle four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fry 
in it two large onions sliced, and two cloves of 
garlic. Add {he fish cut into bits and just 
cover the mixture with warm water. Then add 
salt, pepper, half of a bay leaf, two large to- 
matoes, peeled and chopped, the juice of half a 
lemon and one cup of white wine. Cook over a 
brisk fire twelve minutes, or until the liquor is 
reduced one-third. Add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley and a pinch of saffron. Cook 
two minutes. Pour the bouillabaise over slices 
of French bread. 



33 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



34 



FISH 



Memo 



35 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



36 



ENTREES 




ENTREES 



Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

. 

Lay half a dozen sweetbreads in cold water 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil them five minutes, drop into 
cold water, remove the skin and lard with fat 
bacon. Put them in a saucepan with a pint of 
stock, two small onions and one carrot chopped, 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, and a little mace. Stew until tender. 

Serve with a mushroom sauce, made as follows : 
Take a small bottle of mushrooms or one dozen 
fresh mushrooms sliced and boil them five min- 
utes in water and lime juice. Drain and place 
in a stew pan with two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour and a pint of well seasoned stock 
or gravy. Cook until the sauce is reduced one- 
half. Pour over the hot sweetbreads. 



39 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Terrapin 

Boil the terrapin for one hour, and clean care- 
fully. Rub into a paste the yolks of six hard- 
boiled eggs, half the white of one egg chopped, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, three whole cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne 
and mace. Place the terrapin into a stewpan 
with a glass of sherry or madeira and the pre- 
pared paste. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. 
Add three glasses of sherry and madeira and 
allow it to boil once, when it is ready to serve. 



Frogs a la Poulette 

Joint the hind legs and backs of twelve frogs ; 
put in a closely covered saucepan with some 
truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass 
of white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace 
and four ounces of butter. Stew gently fifteen 
minutes, stirring once or twice. If then tender, 
add one teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed into one 
ounce of butter. Let it cook two minutes, take 

40 



ENTREES 



from the fire and stir in the yolks of six eggs 
beaten well with one-half cup of cream. Place 
this mixture where it will keep hot without 
cooking. Cut the crust from a loaf of bread, 
scoop out the center, brush with butter and 
brown in the oven. Pour the frogs legs and 
sauce into the bread cup, garnish with mush- 
rooms and truffles. 

A* & 
Calves' Head en Tortue 

Simmer a calves' head for two hours. Tie the 
brains in a cloth, put them in the saucepan with 
the head and cook two hours longer. Then ex- 
tract the bones and cut the meat in pieces, re- 
turn it to the saucepan without the brains, 
adding two ounces of butter, two dozen stoned 
olives, one dozen cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and a cup of white wine. Cook for one hour, 
then add the brains cut in bits, the shaved peel 
and piece of one lemon and three hard-boiled 
eggs sliced. Cook thirty minutes. Thicken 
the sauce with flour rubbed into butter and serve 
with the calves' head. 

41 



JOE TILDE N'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chops a la Reine 

Trim twelve lamb chops very closely and fry 
lightly in six ounces of butter. Remove them 
and in the same butter place two onions, sliced, 
four green peppers minced, one can of mush- 
rooms minced, and two stalks of celery chopped; 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the juice of a lime. 
Cook until these ingredients are soft. Stir in 
six ounces of flour. Then add two cups of 
milk and cook until the mixture is thick and 
smooth. Dust a plate with cracker crumbs and 
on this place a spoonful of the fried mixture. 
Place a chop on top of this, cover it with an- 
other spoonful of the mixture and dust with 
cracker crumbs. Repeat with each chop, and 
when cold roll each in beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry a light brown. 



42 



ENTREES 



Calves' Feet a la Marechale 

Boil four calves' feet until tender. Cut into 
inch pieces and fry in four ounces of butter, with 
two onions, a little garlic, two green peppers and 
some mushrooms, chopped fine, seasoning all 
with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. 
Stir in four ounces of flour and add boiling milk, 
enough to make the mixture as thick as rich 
cream. Put in the calves' feet and mix all well 
together. Then remove from the fire and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs which have been mixed 
with the juice of a lime and a tablespoonful of 
water. Pour the whole into a buttered pan 
and set aside to cool. When cold cut into 
slices, brush with egg and bread crumbs and fry 
in butter until a light brown. 



43 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 

Boil chestnuts in salted water for twenty min- 
utes. Shell them, season with salt and pepper, 
add a piece of butter and wet with milk. Mash 
through a colander and heap lightly on a plat- 
ter, arranging broiled chops around the puree. 



Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 

Trim carefully one dozen young lamb chops. 
Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of marrow, 
some chopped mushrooms and eschalots. Then 
add a glass of sherry and stir it well before 
adding also a cup of rice, four cups of stock, 
several sweet Chili peppers chopped and some 
salt. Cook for half an hour or until pasty. 
Pour it out in a pan to the thickness of half an 
inch and let cool. Then with a biscuit cutter, 
cut it into rounds about the size of a chop. On 
each one of these rounds place a chop and cover 
the top with Bechamel sauce. When cold dip 
in egg and bread crumbs and fry a light brown. 

44 



ENTREES 



A good recipe for the Bechamel sauce is the 
following: One ounce of butter browned with 
one ounce of flour. To this add half a glass of 
sherry, some finely chopped truffles, one cup 
and a half of stock, salt and pepper, and cook 
for ten minutes. Add the juice of a lime, take 
from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs. 



Devil Chops 

Make a dressing of the following ingredients 
mixed together: One ounce of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of French mustard, one teaspoonful of grated 
horseradish, one teaspoonful of chutney, a 
little Chili vinegar, the juice of one lime, salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Rub this on the chops 
and broil rare. Serve the remaining sauce over 
them in a very hot dish. 



45 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 

Fry one dozen lamb chops in butter and set 
aside to cool. Put in a stew pan two ounces of 
butter with half a can of mushrooms, one small 
onion and a teaspoonful of parsley, all minced 
fine; salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace. 
Cook this gently for ten minutes and add a cup 
of milk thickened with flour and butter, the 
juice of a lemon and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook a few minutes. Take from the fire and 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Cover 
the chops with this and set aside to cool. Brush 
them with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and fry in 
butter to a light brown. Serve with green peas 
in the center of the dish. 



Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 

Lard lamb cutlets with strips of truffle, an- 
chovy and gherkin. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, mushrooms, capers, chives, a little 

46 



ENTREES 



shallot all chopped very fine, pepper, salt and 
butter. Put this on each side of the cutlets 
and cover with crepinette. Broil or fry to a 
light brown and dust over with very fine browned 
bread crumbs. Serve with a browned veal 
gravy and sliced lemon. 

J* & 
Eggs with Tomatoes 

Fry in two ounces of butter two small dry 
onions and two green peppers, chopped. Add 
half a dozen tomatoes peeled and cut up, salt 
and pepper. Simmer fifteen minutes. Add 
the corn cut from half a dozen ears, and cook 
fifteen minutes longer. Pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, and break over it six eggs. 
Place in the oven until set. 



Macaroni a la Rossini 

Cook a pint or less of macaroni in well salted 
water; drain and put into a stew pan, with a 
little good gravy. Simmer very slowly ii&itil the 

47 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

gravy is all absorbed, shaking the pan occa- 
sionally. Put a layer of the macaroni in a 
baking dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and sliced truffles mixed with a little 
good sauce espagnole. Fill the dish and on the 
top layer put truffles. Place in the oven a few 
minutes and serve with grated Parmesan cheese 
on a separate dish. 

A* & 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve 

Persons 

Boil one-half pound of macaroni in water for 
five minutes. Cut in inch length pieces and 
simmer for twenty minutes in one quart of milk, 
being careful that it does not boil. Season with 
salt, pepper, mace and cayenne. Add one cup 
of cream, stir until very smooth, add the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs and one can of mushrooms 
sliced. Stir well and then add the macaroni 
with one pound of sweetbreads, cut in small 
pieces and two dozen Eastern oysters. Let 
this cool, then cover with pastry and bake in 
the oven until brown. 

48 



ENTREES 
Memo 



49 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



50 



ENTREES 
Memo 



51 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



52 



CHICKEN 
AND GAME 




CHICKEN AND GAME 



Chicken Portuguese 

Truss two young chickens as though for 
roasting. Lay on the bottom of a large stew pan 
the rind of a piece of pork, and on this, place the 
chicken. Add four ounces of butter, a head of 
celery chopped, two onions sliced, three small 
carrots sliced, two Chili peppers cut up, and the 
halves of two bell peppers from which the seeds 
have been removed. Season with salt, cayenne, 
thyme and a few sweet herbs. Cover and cook 
quickly for forty minutes, moistening from time 
to time with a spoonful of stock or gravy. Then 
add two large tomatoes sliced, and cook twenty 
minutes longer. Serve the chicken with the 
sauce poured over it. 



Chicken with Oysters 

Stuff a young chicken with oyster and a few 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. Truss the fowl, place it in a tin pail 

55 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

with a tight cover. Stand the pail in a kettle 
of boiling water and leave on the fire one hour 
and a half. Remove the chicken and place in a 
dish. Pour the gravy into a saucepan, adding 
two dozen oysters, two hard boiled eggs chopped, 
a wine glass of cream and one ounce of butter, 
into which has been rubbed a teaspoonful of 
corn starch. Boil for a few moments and pour 
over the chicken. 

This is an excellent way to cook a young 
turkey. 



Casuela 

Cut a chicken into small pieces and fry it with 
a clove of garlic in a large tablespoonful of lard, 
for ten minutes. Then add one quart of water, 
half a cupful each of green peas, string beans 
and grains of corn, and boil one and one-half 
hours. Add three potatoes cut into bits, one 
tablespoonful of rice, salt, pepper and the white 
of one egg. Boil for three-quarters of an hour 

56 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



longer, then remove from the fire. In a tureen 
mix one mashed potato with the yolk of the egg 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Strain the 
broth slowly into this and mix thoroughly be- 
fore adding the chicken and other ingredients. 



Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 

Cut up a chicken, and season with salt, pep- 
per and a little mace. Dip the pieces into 
beaten egg, then roll in flour and fry in lard and 
butter until brown. Take out the chicken and 
in the pan put a large piece of butter with a 
little flour. As soon as it froths up stir in milk 
until thick. Let it boil a minute and pour over 
the chicken. 



Chicken with Rice 

Cut up a chicken and stew gently for ten 
minutes in a little water. Add two ounces of 
butter, salt, pepper, mace and a green pepper, 
chopped very fine, stew until done. 

57 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Make a form of boiled rice around a dish and 
lay the chicken in the middle of it. Add to the 
sauce a good piece of butter with a teaspoonful 
of flour rubbed into it and boil two minutes. 
Take from the fire and stir in the yolk of three 
eggs, beaten with a half cup of rich cream. Pour 
over the chicken and serve. 



Chicken with Spaghetti 

Prepare the spaghetti by boiling about three 
pounds in salted water for twenty minutes. 

Stew a chicken in water until tender and pick 
it to pieces, adding enough of the gravy to make 
a quart. Into this put four sliced onions that 
have been fried in two ounces of butter, and one 
quart of tomatoes. Stew for fifteen minutes. 
Place a layer of spaghetti on a platter and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over 
some of the chicken sauce and repeat the layers, 
putting the best of the chicken on top. 



58 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Quail with Celery 

Cut six quail in halves and cover them with 
water in a stewpan, adding strips of salt pork, 
some finely chopped celery, salt and pepper. 
Cook until done. Remove the birds and strain 
the liquor; add to it, two ounces of flour rubbed 
into two ounces of butter, the remainder of the 
head of celery grated, and two cups of milk. 
When it thickens pour over the birds and serve 
very hot. 



Pheasant a la Savarin 

Place on the bottom of a roasting pan two 
slices of bread cut two inches thick. Spread 
over this the pounded liver and heart of the bird 
with an anchovy, a bit of ham and two truffles 
minced. On this lay the pheasant and roast 
until done. Serve on the cooked bread. 

Nothing but the finest Burgundy should be 
served with this. 

59 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Quail and Onion 

To each quail allow one good sized onion, 
sliced, and half a glass each of oil and vinegar. 
Stew in a covered pot until the birds are tender. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve with any 
good sauce. 



Salmi of Duck with Olives 

Roast for eight minutes two sprig tail ducks, 
take out and cut the meat from the bones. 
Break up the bones. Cover with water in a 
saucepan and cook with a dozen cloves, one 
onion and some chopped celery, to make a 
gravy. When done strain it off. To this gravy 
add the meat, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, one-half head of celery, cut in strips, 
one teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen 
stoned olives. Cook gently ten minutes, stirring 
it well until smooth. Add a piece of butter 
rolled in brown flour. Stew five minutes and 
serve very hot. 

60 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Stewed Squabs 

Make a stuffing of the livers and hearts of six 
birds chopped fine, with a little butter, chopped 
pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne and a 
little lemon. Stuff the squabs with the above. 
Put them in a stew pan and cover with stock 
and stew one-half hour. Take out the birds, 
add salt, cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, one tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, one tablespoonful of lime juice, a large 
glass of port or sherry, and two ounces of butter, 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls of browned 
flour. 

Return the birds to the sauce for ten minutes. 
Fry some thick slices of bread, place a bird on 
each and pour the sauce over them. 



61 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



62 



CHICKEN AND GAME 
Memo 



63 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



64 



MEATS 




MEATS 



Yorkshire Steaks 

Fry in butter several small tenderloin steaks, 
with two onions sliced and one cucumber sliced. 
When well browned add a pint of stock, salt, 
pepper and cayenne and one teaspoonful of 
made mustard. Simmer an hour or longer. 



Filet of Beef a la Rossini 

Braise a larded filet of beef with what vege- 
tables are in season. Put in a saucepan and 
moisten while cooking with a bottle of good 
claret or sherry. When done garnish the meat 
with macaroni prepared as follows: Boil one- 
half pound of macaroni, cut into three-inch 
lengths and put in a saucepan with some sliced 
mushrooms, one-half pint of good stock, three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat 
of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Toss 
over the fire until well mixed and serve around 
the beef. Strain the vegetables out of the gravy 
and pour over the beef. 

67 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Yorkshire Pudding 

This is to be served with roast beef, and it 
should be baked in the pan of drippings in which 
the beef has cooked. Mix a cup of flour with a 
cup of milk, salt and one egg beaten. Bake 
quickly and serve at once. 



Cold Roast Beef Stewed 

Cut the remains of a cold roast into pieces, 
flour the pieces and fry in butter until brown. 
Then put them into a saucepan with a cup of 
stock, a glass of port, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Simmer five minutes and add one tablespoonful 
of lime juice before serving. 



Lobscouse 

Soak four thick slices of corned beef in fresh 
water for two hours. Fry four slices of salt pork 
or bacon. In the fat fry four sliced onions a 
68 



MEATS 



light brown. Place in a stewpan the beef, 
onions and pork or bacon. Add a dozen sliced 
potatoes, cover with water and season highly 
with pepper. Cover and stew gently until the 
meat is tender. Then break into the stewpan 
four sea biscuits, cook for five minutes longer. 
The liquor may be thickened a little more with 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little cold 
water. 



Perchero 

Place five pounds of beef in a large pot half 
filled with water. Boil for three hours, having 
seasoned well with salt and pepper. Then add 
a large piece of pumpkin cut in pieces, a pint of 
string beans, a cup of corn, a large onion sliced, 
a carrot and a turnip diced, and a bell pepper 
minced. Simmer for half an hour. Then add 
half a cup of rice and one teaspoonf ul of saffron. 
Cook for half an hour longer. In another sauce- 
pan boil a cabbage, and in a third pan stew some 

69 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

peeled apples and bananas cut up. Put the 
meat in the center of a platter and place the 
mixed fruits and vegetables around it. 



Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 

Place in a saucepan three onions sliced, a 
carrot and a potato diced; salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of lime juice or vinegar, with thin 
slices of cold meat. Cover closely and simmer 
for one hour, add half a cup of cold water and 
simmer one hour longer. Season with a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire and thicken the 
gravy with an ounce of flour rubbed into butter. 



Lamb with Macaroni 

Cover the bottom of a baking pan with slices 
of bacon. Place on them a breast of young 
lamb and cover it with slices of bacon and thin 
slices of a peeled lemon. Season with salt and 

70 



MEATS 



pepper, add a small onion minced and a cup of 
stock. Cover and bake slowly for two hours. 
Boil half a cup of macaroni in gravy to 
which a few peeled tomatoes may be added. 
When tender, place it on a serving dish, lay 
the lamb on it and pour over all the gravy 
which may be thickened with a little flour. 

& # 
Stewed Fresh Tongue 

Soak a fresh tongue in cold water for one hour, 
then boil it three hours and remove the skin. 
Place the tongue in a stewpan with half a head 
of celery, one turnip, one carrot and two onions 
cut in small pieces, one dozen cloves, salt and 
cayenne. Simmer for one and one-half hours. 
Take out the tongue and add to the gravy one 
tablespoonful of made mustard, one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, three picketed gherkins chopped, 
one glass of port or red wine, and two ounces 
of butter, creamed with three ounces of browned 
flour. Cook until smooth. Return the tongue 
to the sauce and simmer half an hour. 
71 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Pork Pie 

Cut into small pieces enough pork to fill a 
baking dish. Season it with salt, pepper and 
mace. Use no water. Cover the meat with a 
thick pastry crust and bake in a slow oven for 
two hours. Make a gravy of the bones and 
scraps of the pork, well seasoned, and pour into 
the pie after it is baked. 



To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 

Dress a pig of ten weeks old as if to roast. 
Make a stuffing of the liver, two anchovies, and 
sage leaves all chopped small; bread crumbs, 
four ounces of butter, salt, cayenne and a half 
pint of red wine. Stuff and sew the pig up. 
Roast at an open fire. Put in the dripping pan 
three bottles or more of red wine. Baste the 
pig frequently and when almost done put in the 
pan close to the fire two loaves of bread. Stand 
the pig in the dish for serving and put a lemon in 
his mouth. Place one of the loaves of bread 
72 



MEATS 



on each side; to the gravy in the pan add one 
anchovy, one-half lemon and a few sweet herbs, 
all chopped fine. Boil it a few minutes and 
pour over the pig. Lay slices of lemon and 
barberries round the dish. 



To Boil a Ham 

Soak a ham for one hour and clean with a 
brush. Put it in a kettle with plenty of cold 
water and after it boils cook seven hours, skim 
well and always replenish with boiling water. 
After it has boiled three hours add half a hand- 
ful of whole cloves and at the end of five hours 
add one and a half pints of vinegar. After 
boiling, skin the ham, sprinkle it with crumbs, 
stick with cloves and roast in a moderate oven, 
thirty minutes, basting with a liquor of half 
vinegar and half water. 



73 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Mexican Tripe 

Dip a thick honey comb piece of tripe in 
butter, then in crumbs, and broil over a clear fire 
until well done, sprinkling over it whilst cooking 
three or four finely chopped green Chilis. Melt 
in a hot soup plate one ounce of butter, adding 
salt, pepper and cayenne, and one teaspoonful 
of made mustard, rub smooth and add one-half 
teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and the juice of one small 
lime. Lay the tripe in this sauce as soon as it is 
removed from the fire. Serve with buttered 
toast. An excellent prelude to this dish is 
a plate of onion soup. 



Spanish Bacon on Toast 

Fry a crisp brown, twelve slices of bacon. 
Remove the bacon from the frying pan, leaving 
some of the fat. Into this stir two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and a cup of milk; a small onion 

74 



MEATS 



minced and a dash of pepper. Cook until it is 
smooth. Have six slices of toast ready. On 
each, place two slices of the fried bacon and on 
each a slice of raw tomato. Pour the sauce over 
the toast and bacon and tomato, and serve 
very hot. 



75 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



76 



MEATS 
Memo 



77 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



78 



MEATS 



Memo 



79 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



80 



SAUCES 




SAUCES 



Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 

Melt together in a hot soup plate one ounce 
of butter, and an equal amount of currant jelly. 
Add the juice of a lime, a glass of sherry and a 
small cupful of finely chopped celery. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. 



Sauce for Wild Fowl 

Take one shallot chopped, salt, cayenne, 
mace, a glass of port or claret, one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, the rind of one-half lime and 
one tablespoonful of lime juice. Boil these in- 
gredients for five minutes. Strain the liquor 
and add to any gravy. 



83 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Heat a bowl with boiling water, and wipe dry. 
In it beat quarter of a cup of butter to a cream. 
Add the yolks of two raw eggs, one at a time, 
beating until smooth. Then add a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, salt and cayenne, and beat 
the mixture with a fork or an egg beater, for 
five minutes. Place the bowl in boiling water. 
Stir into the sauce two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, and beat until the sauce is smooth and 
thick as mayonnaise. 



Parsley Butter 

Beat three tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Add half a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 
of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat all together several minutes, when it is 
ready for use. An excellent dressing for fried 
or broiled fish. 



84 



SAUCES 



Green Sauce 

Mix in a bowl a tablespoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, with one table- 
spoonful of Tarragon vinegar and one of cider 
vinegar. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 



Egg Sauce 

Beat two ounces of butter to a froth. Mix 
into it one tablespoonful of flour and the yolk 
of one egg. Pour a cup of hot water of this 
batter, stirring constantly. Heat over the fire 
until it is thick and smooth, but be careful not 
to boil. Just before serving stir in two hard 
boiled eggs finely chopped. 



Celery Sauce 

Put in a stewpan with salt, cayenne and a 
blade of mace, three grated heads of celery. 
Cover with boiling water. Boil ten minutes 

85 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

and drain. Return to the fire with enough veal 
stock to cover the celery and stew half an hour. 
Then add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, 
and half a cup of cream. Shake over the fire a 
minute or two and serve at once. 

& & 
Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 

Put in a saucepan half a teacupful of soup 
stock, three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of made mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of French mustard, two cloves of 
garlic chopped fine, one onion chopped, two 
green peppers and one pickeled gherkin chopped, 
one tomato peeled and cut up, the juice of half 
a lime and half a lime cut in thin slices. Sim- 
mer for one hour, then add the following : One 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of 
Imperial sauce, one of Tarragon vinegar, two 
of Bon Gout sauce, two of mushroom catsup, 
two of walnut catsup and two tablespoonfuls of 
chutney, add half a pint of sherry and simmer 
for fifteen minutes. 

This will keep several months. 
86 



SAUCES 



Onion Sauce 

Boil three good sized onions, one hour. Drain 
and put in a stewpan with one-half pint of milk 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then rub through a sieve and put back 
in the pan with one-half pint of cream and one 
ounce of butter. 

Simmer ten minutes and serve very hot. 



Garlic Sauce 

Rub together in a mortar until smooth, two 
ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Add a tablespoonful of 
lime juice and one-half a pint of melted butter. 
Beat until light and smooth, when it is ready 
to serve. 



87 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Melted Butter 

Take one pint of milk and one teaspoonful 
of salt; when it boils stir into it three ounces of 
butter, a little cayenne and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour rubbed into it. Let it boil one minute 
and serve at once. 



Salad Dressing Without Oil 

Put in a double saucepan the yolks of three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and one tablespoonful of dry mustard. Mix 
well and sift in two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four 
of water. Stir until quite smooth. Place over 
the fire, stirring continually one way. As soon 
as it thickens remove from the fire and beat in 
three ounces of butter. Use when cool. 



88 



SAUCES 



Memo 



89 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



90 



SAUCES 
Memo 



91 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



92 



VEGETABLES 




_ VEGETABLES _ 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 

Boil large choice asparagus until tender. 
Put a layer of stalks upon the dish on which 
they are to be served. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and a little grated Parmesan 
cheese. Make three layers of this and pour 
over all a little melted butter. Break on top a 
fresh egg for each person, and put in the oven 
until set. Serve very hot. To be served in- 
dividually, six stalks may be placed on each 
dish, covered with cheese, and an egg broken 
over them. Serve after placing in the oven a 
few moments. 



Corn au Gratin 

Score down twelve ears of boiled corn, and 
with the back of a knife press out the kernels. 
Put them into a baking dish with a large piece 
of butter, salt, pepper, a finely chopped green 
pepper and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
or Gruyere cheese. Place in a hot oven until 
just browned and serve immediately. 

95 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Ghonfleur au Gratin 

Boil a large cauliflower twenty minutes in 
salted water. When tender drain and put on 
the dish on which it is to be served. Make a 
sauce of two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour 
and half a pint of milk, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne. Mix this 
well, putting in the cheese last. Pour it over 
the cauliflower and sprinkle more cheese over 
the top. Set in a hot oven until browned and 
serve at once. 

<* <* 
Okra 

Cut the stems off of young okra pods and boil 
in water until the seeds turn red, which should 
be in half an hour. Drain and toss in a pan 
with butter, salt, pepper and cayenne. 



96 



_ VEGETABLES _ 

Potato Cream 

Boil six medium-sized, mealy potatoes and 
when soft press them through a sieve until light 
and floury. Then beat into them the raw 
yolks of six eggs and a little milk and butter. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with 
finely chopped chevril and thyme, and fine dice 
of fried bread before serving. 



Sweet Potatoes 

Take six good sized sweet potatoes and boil 
until nearly done. Then peel them and roll in 
melted butter, lay in a buttered baking pan. 
Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake until done. 



Chili Beans 

Take four cups of red beans, one onion, four 
cloves of garlic, cover with water and cook all 
day in a covered saucepan. Add a little water 

97 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

from time to time if too dry. Cook slowly four 
red peppers and five black peppers with seeds 
out, three black peppers with seeds, four cloves 
of garlic, four onions with the hearts taken out, 
salt, and one cup of beef stock. Rub through 
a sieve. Put in a saucepan four tablespoonfuls 
of marrow. When very hot add the beans and 
then the sauce. 



To Boil Rice 

tlave plenty of salted water, with the juice 
of a lime in it. When boiling add rice that has 
been washed in three waters. Boil fast for 
sixteen minutes. Try a grain, and if done dash 
in a glass of cold water. Drain at once through 
a colander. Cover with a cloth and let stand 
by the fire for a few minutes, shaking up the 
colander once or twice. This will make every 
grain separate. 



98 



VEGETABLES 



Risotto 

Fry two chopped onions in butter until light 
brown in color. Add one cup of raw rice and 
cover with beef stock. As the rice absorbs the 
stock add more until done. Then add two large 
tomatoes stewed, with a little sugar and highly 
seasoned. Place on the dish for serving and 
grate Parmesan cheese over it. 



99 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



100 



VEGETABLES 
Memo 



101 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



102 



SALADS 




SALADS 



Club Salad 

Boil separately two carrots, two turnips, and 
four potatoes. When cold, cut the vegetables 
into dice and mix them together, adding three 
apples peeled and cut into small bits. Toss in a 
large salad bowl with several olives for garnish. 
Bits of celery or cold cauliflower may be added. 
Pour over all a mayonnaise, or if preferred, a 
French dressing. Another dressing that is 
excellent with this salad is one made of the 
yolks of four raw eggs beaten into half a glass of 
rich cream which may be either sweet or sour. 
To this add one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
mustard and a wineglassful of vinegar, blending 
carefully. 



Winter Salad 

Cut the white stalks of a head of celery into 
small bits. Mix with two boiled potatoes cut 
in dice, two or three boiled beets cut in dice, a 
large white onion boiled and cut up, some 

105 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

chopped truffles, anchovies and stoned olives, 
a tablespoonful or more of each. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 

A* ^ 
Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad 

Make a paste of two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, two ounces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, the yolk of one egg, salt and cayenne. Roll 
out the paste until about one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Cut into very narrow strips and place 
on a buttered tin. Bake ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 



106 



SALADS 
Memo 



107 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



108 



D ESS ERTS 
AND CAKES 




DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Mince Meat 

Measure carefully and mix together the fol- 
lowing ingredients: Two pounds of roast beef 
finely chopped, two pounds of chopped beef 
suet, two pounds of chopped peeled apples, two 
pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds Sultana 
raisins, two pounds of washed currants, two 
pounds of white sugar, one pound of citron cut 
in bits, one pound of dried orange peel, two 
nutmegs grated, three teaspoonfuls of ground 
mace, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
three teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind and juice of 
two oranges, one quart of brandy, one quart of 
sherry and one glass of blackberry jelly. After 
mixing thoroughly place the mince meat in a 
stone jar and use it from this. 



Hot Zabajone 

Beat well together the yolks of six eggs, and 
half a cup of sugar. Heat in a double saucepan, 
being careful to stir only one way. Place in a 

111 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

strainer the shaved peel of three oranges. 
Through this pour slowly into the eggs a quart 
of champagne (white wine may be substituted) , 
and allow the mixture to thicken. Serve hot 
in champagne glasses. 



Frozen Zabajone 

Mix the same as for hot zabajone, adding 
.another half cup of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of orange juice. When it is cold half freeze in 
a freezer. Then remove and place in paper 
cases or moulds, on the ice. 



.Genoise Pastry 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter and half a 
cup of sugar. Break into the cream three eggs, 
one at a time, and mix until smooth. Stir in 
lialf a cup of flour. Pour out on a buttered tin 
and bake ten or fifteen minutes. When cold 
112 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



spread thickly with apricot jam and cover with 
chocolate icing. Set in the oven a few moments, 
then put aside to cool. Cut into odd shapes 
before serving. 

J? <* 
Omelette Souffle 

Beat to a cream the yolks of six eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Place in a frying pan over the fire 
four ounces of butter. When it is melted mix the 
yolks and whites together and stir quickly into 
the pan. As soon as the eggs have absorbed 
the butter, pour them into a buttered baking 
dish and set in a hot oven for six or seven min- 
utes. Serve at once. 

A* & 

Marmalade Pudding 

Cream half a cup of sugar and two teaspoon- 
fuls of butter. Beat into this the yolks of four 
eggs and one cup of cream or milk. Add a cup 

113 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

of fine bread crumbs and the beaten whites of 
the eggs; then a cup of orange marmalade, or 
some other fruit marmalade. Pour into a but- 
tered mould and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Turn out of the mould and serve with 
a brandy sauce, or cream. 

& & 

Amherst Pudding 

Line a baking dish with thinly rolled pie crust 
or puff paste. Fill with the following mixture. 
A small cup of butter creamed with two cups of 
sugar and beaten up with four or five eggs, a 
cupful of finely chopped apple added, with the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon and a little 
water. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake for 
half an hour in a moderate oven. 



Brown Betty 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with bread 
crumbs, over which place a layer of thinly sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and 

114 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



small pieces of butter, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
then cover with bread crumbs and repeat the 
layers until the dish is filled, having a layer of 
crumbs sprinkled with bits of butter on top. 
Then pour over all three-quarters of a cup 
of molasses thinned with a little hot water. 
Bake until the apples are tender and the top is 
well browned. 



Chocolate Pudding 

Grate one-half a pound of Baker's chocolate; 
and melt it in half a pint of hot milk. Stir into 
the milk also half a cup of bread crumbs, one cup 
of powdered sugar and the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Wet a melon mould in cold water and 
pour the mixture into it. Boil three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve with cream, or the following 
sauce: Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. 
Heat a cup of wine and a cup of sugar until the 
sugar is melted. Remove from the fire and stir 
in the eggs quickly. 

115 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 

Butter thickly some slices of bread and lay in 
a baking dish. Cover them with thick black 
molasses and bake slowly. The pudding should 
be served hot, with thick cream. 



Baked Bananas 

Put into a bowl three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, six of sugar, and three of wine. Set the 
bowl in hot water to melt the butter. Peel 
the fruit and lay it in a baking pan. Pour 
over it the mixture in the bowl, and bake half 
an hour, basting several times. 



Hermits 

Cream two cups of sugar and one cup of 
butter. Add three well beaten eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Sift into this six cups 

116 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



of flour and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg and clove. Add last a cup of chopped 
raisins. Roll the dough out about one-quarter 
of an inch thick, cut into small squares and 
bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. 



Lady Baltimore Cake 

Cream one pound of sugar and half a pound 
of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of eight 
eggs separately, and add the beaten yolks to 
the butter and sugar. Stir in half a pint of 
milk and one pound of flour with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and bake in three layers. 
For the filling, boil three cups of powdered 
sugar and three-quarters of a cup of water for 
five minutes. Beat four eggs, the yolks and 
whites together, and into them stir the boiling 
syrup, adcl two cups of chopped raisins and 
two cups 01 almonds, chopped and blanched. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread thickly between 
the layers of cake. Cover with white frosting. 

117 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Silver Cake 

Beat lightly the whites of eight eggs. Cream 
two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter. 
Stir into the eggs, adding three-fourths of a 
cup of milk. Sift into the batter three cups 
of flour and one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Gold Cake 

Cream a cup of sugar and three-fourths of a 
cup of butter. Mix into this the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs and half a cup of milk. Last add 
one and a half cups of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in a long 
bread tin. 



Fig Filling for Cake 

Chop together one pound of dried figs and 
one cup of seeded raisins. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon and sugar to taste. 

118 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Pour over the mixture a cup of water and heat 
thoroughly, mixing it over the fire. Spread 
between layers of white cake. 



Thin Gingerbread 

Place in a saucepan one pint of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and let them boil 
together for a moment. Then remove from 
the fire, and when nearly cool stir in flour 
enough to make a thick batter or dough. 
Spread thinly on tins and bake quickly. 



119 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



120 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 
Memo 



121 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



122 



WINE CUPS 
and PUNCHES 




WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 
Champagne Cup I 

Pour on a sliced cucumber one pint of sherry 
and one-half pint of brandy. Grate the rind 
of two lemons over a little sugar. Add it to 
the mixture with the juice of one lemon and 
the juice of three oranges, half a pint of 
Curacao, two bottles of seltzer, three bottles 
of apollinaris and three bottles of cham- 
pagne. Sweeten to taste and ice well. 



Champagne Cup II 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the juice and shaved peel of a lemon, a few 
slices of cucumbers, one wine glass of Curacao, 
one quart of apollinaris and one quart of 
champagne. Pour over a block of ice in a 
punch bowl. 



125 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Champagne Cup III 

Rub three ounces of sugar on lemon peel and 
put in a punch bowl with the juice of four 
lemons, one quart of apollinaris, and one 
quart of orgeat. Beat this well. Then add 
one pint of brandy, half a glass of Jamaica 
rum and a glass of Maraschino. Strain into a 
bowl of ice and just before serving, pour in 
three quarts of champagne. 



Champagne Cup IV 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar rubbed on the 
peel of a lemon and mixed with the juice of 
half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, one 
wine glass each of Maraschino and brandy 
and a quart each of apollinaris and champagne. 
Ice well. 



126 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup V 

Rub two ounces of sugar over the peel of an 
orange. Mix with it the juice of an orange, 
two wine glasses of sherry, one wine glass of 
Maraschino, and a quart each of apollinaris and 
champagne. Add a few slices of cucumber 
and plenty of ice. 



Hock Cup 

Pour over a block of ice in a punch bowl, a 
wine glass of Maraschino, two quarts of apol- 
linaris, two quarts of sparkling hock and the 
juice of two lemons. Sweeten with two 
ounces of sugar. 



Badminton Claret Cup 

Rub six lumps of sugar~bn a lemon, strain 
the juice of the lemon over the sugar and add 
a glass of good sherry, two sprigs of verbena, 

127 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

a few slices of cucumber and a quart of claret. 
Place in the bowl a large piece of ice, and when 
ready to serve add a quart of sparkling mineral 
water. 



Moselle Cup 

Place the following ingredients in a punch 
bowl, with a block of ice, two ounces of sugar, 
the shaved peel of half an orange, three peaches 
sliced, a small pineapple sliced, half a dozen 
apricots, a wine glass of sherry, a quart of 
sparkling Moselle and a quart of apollinaris. 



Sauterne Cup 

Pour in a punch bowl, with ice, a quart each 
of sauterne, apollinaris and champagne, a wine 
glass of Chartreuse and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. 



128 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 



Champagne Punch 

In a bowl place one sliced orange, one lime 
sliced very thin, and the juice of another lime, 
one-fourth of a pineapple sliced, and one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar. Let stand twelve 
hours. Put a large block of ice in a punch 
bowl, add the above ingredients with a wine 
glass of Maraschino, two tumblers of sauterne, 
a wine glass of raspberry syrup, and last of all, 
one quart of champagne, a few whole straw- 
berries and a claret glass of Benedictine may 
also be added. 



"T" Punch 

Slice a whole pineapple and three lemons, 
and place in a punch bowl with the juice only 
of nine other lemons, add two pounds of sugar, 
and let these ingredients stand several hours. 
Then add one quart each of green tea, Jamaica 
rum, brandy, claret, a pint of Curacao, and 

129 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

allow it to stand another hour. Then place 
in the punch bowl with a large block of ice, 
and pour in six quarts of champagne. 

& & 

New York Club Punch 

Take two pounds of lump sugar and squeeze 
over it the juice of one dozen lemons, using a 
little of the grated rind. Let this stand three 
hours, then strain the syrup through two thick- 
nesses of flannel and set away on ice. Just 
before serving add one quart each of brandy, 
Jamaica rum, Madeira and water. 

* <** 

Milk Punch 

Take the juice and shaved peel of two dozen 
lemons, mix with five quarts of water, three 
pounds of loaf sugar and six quarts of rum. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add two 
quarts of boiling milk and allow the mixture 
to stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
twice through a cloth. 

130 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Apple Toddy I 

Bake slowly two dozen cored apples until 
done. Place in a large stone jar with eight 
pounds of sugar. Pour over them four gallons 
of boiling water and let stand for forty-eight 
hours. Then remove the apples and crush 
them after taking off the skins. Return the 
fine pulp to the jar, and add one gallon of 
whiskey, one gallon of brandy, one gallon of 
peach brandy and three pints of Jamaica rum. 
The toddy should stand in the covered jar for 
a week before being used. 

& & 

Apple Toddy II 

Prepare six cored apples by sticking a dozen 
cloves in each and baking slowly until soft. 
Put them in a stone jar and pour over them a 
toddy made of two quarts of whiskey, one 
quart of brandy, one pint of rum and three 
cups of water, sweeten to taste and cover 
closely, allowing the mixture to blend for a 
week before using. 

131 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



132 



INDEX 

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS Page 

-, Onion Soup 3 

Palestine Soup... IIIIIIII 3 

Black Bean Soup ', 4 

Parker House Tomato Soup 5 

Celery Soup __ _ III.III 5 

Bisque of Prowns or Shrimps 6 

Lobster Soup _ "IIIIIIII 6 

Venison Soup 7 

Puree of Venison _ 8 

Clear Soup Stock 9 

Daniel Webster's Chowder __ _ 9 

Scott's Chowder _ 10 

Marblehead Chowder _ 11 

Clam Chowder 1 12 

Clam Chowder II ___ 13 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 13 

FISH 

Oysters a la Marechale 21 

Toasted Angels _._ __ 21 

Oyster Pates _ 22 

Scalloped Clams _ __. 22 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry _ 23 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 24 

Shrimps with Tomato _ _ 24 

Saute of Shrimps 25 

Crab a la Creole _ 25 

Sole alaNormandie 26 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian... . 27 

Baked Sole 27 

Flounders a la Magouze _ _ 28 

Salmon a la Melville 29 

Stewed Haddock 29 

Bacalas a la Viscaina 30 

Baked Sardines _ ___ 30 

Sardines with Cheese _ 31 

Scalloped Fish Roe _ 32 

Kedgeree ._ _ 32 

Bouillabaise ___ _ _ 33 

ENTREES 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms _ 39 

Terrapin _ 40 

Frogs a la Poulette 40 

Calves' Head en Tortue 41 

Chops a la Reine __ _-- 42 

Calves' Feet a la Marechale _ 43 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 44 



INDEX Continued 

Page 

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 44 

Devil Chops 45 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 46 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi __ 46 

Eggs with Tomatoes 47 

Macaroni a la Rossini 47 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve Persons 48 

CHICKEN AND GAME 

Chicken Portuguese 55 

Chicken with Oysters 55 

Casuela 56 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 57 

Chicken with Rice 57 

Chicken with Spaghetti 58 

Quail with Celery 59 

Pheasant a la Savarin 59 

Quail and Onion 60 

Salmi of Duck with Olives 60 

Stewed Squabs _ 61 

MEATS 

Yorkshire Steaks ._ 67 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 67 

Yorkshire Pudding 68 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed _. 68 

Lobscouse 68 

Perchero _ 69 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 70 

Lamb with Macaroni 70 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 71 

Pork Pie 72 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 72 

To Boil a Ham 73 

Mexican Tripe 74 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 74 

SAUCES 

Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 83 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 83 

Hollandaise Sauce 84 

Parsley Butter 84 

Green Sauce 85 

Egg Sauce __ 85 

Celery Sauce 85 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl _ 86 

Onion Sauce 87 

Garlic Sauce 87 

Melted Butter 88 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 88 



INDEX Continued 

VEGETABLES Page 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 95 

Corn ail Gratia 95 

Chonfleur au Gratin 96 

Okra _ 96 

Potato Cream 97 

Sweet Potatoes __ 97 

Chili Beans 97 

To Boil Rice 98 

Risotto 99 

SALADS 

Club Salad _. _ 105 

Winter Salad 105 

Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad _ _ 106 

DESSERTS AND CAKES 

Mince Meat 111 

Hot Zabajone 111 

Frozen Zabajone 112 

Genoise Pastry 112 

Omelette Souffle 113 

Marmalade Pudding. _ _ 113 

Amherst Pudding 114 

Brown Betty 114 

Chocolate Pudding 115 

Bread and Molasses Pudding __ 116 

Baked Bananas 116 

Hermits 116 

Lady Baltimore Cake _ 117 

Silver Cake _. 118 

Gold Cake .. 118 

Fig Filling for Cake _ 118 

Thin Gingerbread 119 

WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup I 125 

Champagne Cup II 125 

Champagne Cup III _._ 126 

Champagne Cup IV 126 

Champagne Cup V _ _ 127 

Hock Cup _ 127 

Badminton Claret Cup _ 127 

Moselle Cup 128 

Sauterne Cup 128 

Champagne Punch 129 

"T" Punch _ 129 

New York Club Punch 130 

Milk Punch _ _ _ ._ 130 

Apple Toddy I _ 131 

Apple Toddy II 131 



TURN MARIAN KOSHLAND BIOSCIENCE AND 
* NATURAL RESOURCE LIBRARY 

2101 Valley Life Sciences Bldg. 642-2531 

LOAN PERIOD 



7 DAYS 



vLL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW. 


| t : 






1AM il ""t 






JAN L 

























I 








:i [} 

" i ' .' _ . 




UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




GEORGE D. LYMAN 



'o 



Joe Tilden's Recipes 
for Epicures 



JOE' ILDENS 



RECIPES FOR 



EPICURES 




A. M. ROBERTSON 

SAN FRANCISCO 

1907 



COPYRIGHT BY 

A. M. ROBERTSON 

1BO7 



THE SEQUOIA PRESS 
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 



Introductory Note 



Major Joseph Tilden was in his time one of the most 
famous Bohemians and epicureans of the Pacific Coast. 
Ever since his death his many friends have been trying 
to learn the culinary secrets which made a repast of 
his devising so delicious. He had given his recipes to 
but few, and those few his most intimate friends and 
fellow spirits. One of the most favored of his old 
companions has given this complete collection of his 
recipes for publication. 

San Francisco, May, 1907. 



SOUPS AND 
CHOWDERS 




SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Onion Soup 

Place six ounces of butter in a large saucepan 
over the fire, and stir into it four large white 
onions cut up, not sliced. Stew this very slowly 
for one hour, stirring frequently to prevent its 
scorching. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
about one quart of stock, and cook one hour 
longer. Then stir into the mixture one and a 
half cups of milk and simmer for a few minutes. 
Have ready a soup tureen. In it beat the yolks 
of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir the hot soup into this, 
beating until it thickens a little. A slice of 
toasted French bread should be placed in each 
plate, and the soup poured over it. 



Palestine Soup 

Slice two or three Jerusalem artichokes and 
place in two quarts of boiling water. Cook for 
one and one-half hours. Then rub the arti- 
chokes through a colander and add to them one 

3 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pint of the water in which they were boiled. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 
the same amount of butter. Add two cups of 
milk and boil for ten minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve with croutons. 



Black Bean Soup 

Soak over night one quart of black turtle 
beans in water to cover them. In the morning 
strain and boil them in four quarts of water for 
one hour, skimming frequently. Then put into 
the liquor two white onions sliced, two stalks of 
celery cut into bits, salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
one teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 
Boil for three hours. Remove from the stove 
and add enough stock to thin the mixture to 
the consistency of a cream soup. Pour into it 
nearly a tumbler of sherry and add a thinly sliced 
lime. Place over the fire to boil for five minutes. 
Just before serving stir into the soup three hard- 
boiled eggs, finely chopped. Force meat balls 
may be added. 

4 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Parker House Tomato Soup 

Put into a saucepan five pounds of tomatoes, 
either fresh or canned, with one quart of water, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and three ounces of butter, 
rubbed into one heaping tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook slowly one hour. Remove from the fire 
and rub through a sieve. Place over the fire 
again and add one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of rice flour which has been dissolved in a little 
water. Let it come to a boil, when it is ready 
to serve. 



Celery Soup 

Boil one small cupful of rice in three pints of 
milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, 
until it is tender. Then rub it through a sieve 
and add one quart of veal stock, salt, cayenne, 
and three heads of celery (the white stalks only) 
which have been previously grated. Boil until 
the celery is tender. 

5 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bisque of Prawns or Shrimps 

Boil three dozen prawns twenty minutes in 
salted water to cover them. Meanwhile in two 
small tablespoonfuls of butter, fry an onion and 
a carrot sliced, and a small piece of salt pork 
chopped. Take the prawns out of the boiling 
water and add to it the fried mixture with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs and one-half the 
prawns added again. Simmer one hour. Pound 
the shells of the prawns in a mortar with a little 
butter, to form a smooth paste. Stir this into 
the soup and boil twenty minutes. Strain 
through a sieve. Add one quart of milk and 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred into a 
little of the cold milk. Let it boil up, and serve. 
It should be as thick as rich cream. 



Lobster Soup 

Pick the meat from a five pound lobster and 
pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a 
little milk or cream. When perfectly smooth, 

6 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley (if liked), cayenne and mace. 
Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
mix this with the yolk of an egg and fry it in 
butter. Mix the rest of the pounded lobster 
with two quarts of milk and rub through a 
sieve. Put this in a saucepan and simmer ten 
minutes. Add two ounces of butter and stir 
until melted and smooth. Pour over the fried 
balls in the tureen and serve very hot. 

* 
Venison Soup 

Cut six pounds of lean venison into medium 
sized pieces and place in a soup kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, to which add two dozen 
cloves and four blades of mace. Boil slowly 
three hours. Then add two pounds of venison, 
cut into pieces about an inch square and one 
dozen force meat balls. Boil for thirty min- 
utes. Then season with salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and half a glass of lime juice, letting the soup 
cook ten minutes longer. It should be served 

7 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

in hot bowls in each of which is poured a half 
glass of port before serving. Crisp croutons 
may be added. 



Puree of Venison 

Cut up the remains of venison that had been 
roasted for a former dinner, put a few slices of 
ham into a stew pan, then the venison, two whole 
onions, a blade of mace, two quarts of stock, 
and a small piece of a sprig of thyme, parsley, 
and two cloves. Set it on the stove to simmer, 
two hours or more. Strain it off, and pull all 
the meat to pieces. Pound it with the lean ham 
that was boiled with it, the crust of two French 
rolls which has been soaked in consomme. 
Rub the whole through a colander with a glass 
of claret or port and enough consomme to bring 
it to the consistency of cream. Put it back on 
the fire in a double boiler. Stir a little butter 
into it, and serve with bread fried in dice. 

8 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Clear Soup Stock 

To four pounds of beef add six quarts of cold 
water and place over the fire. Just before it 
boils, skim it carefully. Then add two cups of 
cold water and skim again, repeating this for a 
third skimming. Allow it to simmer slowly for 
three hours. Then add the vegetables; eight 
ounces each of cut up carrots, onions and turnips, 
and three ounces of celery, with salt and pepper. 
Simmer three hours longer. The stock should be 
strained before using, and while cooking it 
should not be allowed to boil. 



Daniel Webster's Chowder 

Fry with some slices of pork, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sliced onions, to a light brown. Put them 
in a deep iron pot with six pounds of cod sliced, 
one quart of boiled mashed potatoes, one pound 
and a half of broken sea biscuit, fifty oysters, 
one teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of 
summer savory, one-half a bottle of mushroom 

9 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

catsup, one bottle of port or claret, one-half a 
nutmeg, one dozen cloves, a little mace and all- 
spice, one half a lemon sliced, pepper and salt. 
Cover with one inch of water and cook slowly 
until done. 



Scott's Chowder 

Cover the bottom of a deep pot with slices of 
pork cut very thin. Add a layer of fish sliced 
and seasoned with salt and pepper, a layer of 
onions parboiled and quartered, a layer of toma- 
toes sliced and seasoned, a layer of thickly sliced 
potatoes and a layer of broken sea biscuit. 
Repeat the layers until the pot is filled. Just 
cover the fish with water and cook one hour very 
slowly. Add one pint of claret, cook one-half 
hour longer and serve. 



10 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Marblehead Chowder 

Cut half a pound of salt pork into dice and 
place two-thirds of it in a deep saucepan; fry 
a light brown. Remove it and in the fat fry 
two large onions sliced. Cover the bottom of 
the pot with slices of raw cod or bass 
mixed with some of the fried pork and onions. 
On this place another layer of sliced 
fish mixed with a few pieces of raw pork, 
and slices of raw onion, salt and pepper; over 
this a layer of sliced raw potatoes. Repeat 
these layers until the pot is about two-thirds 
full, when the mixture should be covered with 
warm water, or preferably a stock made of the 
heads and tails of the fish. After the chowder 
comes to a boil, let it cook for forty-five minutes. 
Then add some broken sea biscuit, and boil 
fifteen minutes longer. In another saucepan 
place a quart of milk and heat it to the boiling 
point. Then stir into it two ounces of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter. When it 
thickens a little, pour it over the chowder and 
serve. 

11 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

The recipe will take about four pounds of 
fish, half a pound of pork, six onions, six po- 
tatoes, four sea biscuits, two ounces each of but- 
ter and flour and a quart of milk. 

A* A* 

Clam Chowder I 

Have one hundred clams still in the shell. 
Boil them in a quart of water until the shells 
open. Take the clams out of the kettle, saving 
the water in which they were boiled. Remove 
them from the shells, discarding all but the soft 
part. Take six slices of salt pork and cut into 
dice. Fry until crisp and a light brown. Re- 
move from the saucepan and in the fat fry four 
onions sliced. Then add the water strained 
from the clams and the fried pork. To this add 
six potatoes cut in small pieces and two green 
peppers chopped or finely sliced. Boil the mix- 
ture fifteen minutes before putting in the clams 
and four sea biscuits, broken into pieces. Then 
boil for fifteen minutes longer and add a quart 
12 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



of milk. Have half a cup of bread crumbs 
rubbed into four ounces of butter. Stir this in 
as the chowder heats after the milk has been 
added. When it boils, it is ready to serve. 
* 

Clam Chowder II 

In a saucepan fry two slices of salt pork and 
when brown, add four potatoes and four onions 
cut up. Fry ten minutes and add three pints 
of water, salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. 
Then add one quart of clams from which the 
tough portions have been removed. Also two 
sea biscuits which have been soaked until they are 
soft. Cook ten minutes. For this recipe, 
canned clams may be used. 
& & 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 
Take the meat of a good sized crab, a- tum- 
blerful of shrimps and a clove of garlic. Chop 
all very fine and make into small force meat 
balls with a beaten egg. Fry them a light brown 
in butter, and serve in any fish chowder or soup. 

13 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



14 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 
Memo 



15 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



16 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 
Memo 



17 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



18 



FISH 




_ FISH _ 

Oysters a la Marechale 

Stew very gently in four ounces of butter 
some thinly sliced truffles and mushrooms. 
After cooking ten minutes add salt, white pep- 
per, cayenne and mace. Stir in four large 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well together 
while it thickens. Put in the liquor of the 
oysters which has been scalded and skimmed. 
Then add milk (boiling) enough to make it as 
thick as cream. Take from the fire and stir in 
the yolks of four eggs beaten well with the juice 
of a lime and a tablespoonful of water. 

Cover each oyster thickly with some of the 
mixture and allow it to cool. Then roll twice 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry to a 
light brown in butter and serve very hot. 



Toasted Angels 

Sprinkle cayenne and a few drops of lime 
juice over as many large oysters as are required, 
then wrap each oyster in a thin strip of bacon 
21 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

or fat salt pork. Fasten with a wooden tooth- 
pick and broil until the bacon is crisp. Serve 
very hot on squares of buttered toast. 



Oyster Pates 

Rub together one ounce of butter and one 
teaspoonful of flour. Melt this in a saucepan 
and add salt, mace and cayenne. Stir gently 
a few minutes, until smooth. Then add slowly 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Strain two dozen 
oysters and add the liquor very slowly, stirring 
all the time. When it boils up, put in the 
oysters, cook three minutes and fill the pate" 
shells. Serve very hot. 



Scalloped Clams 

Wash clean one hundred clams. Use soft 
part whole and the tough part chopped fine. 
Put a layer on the bottom of a buttered baking 

22 



_ FISH _ 

dish. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a 
little mace and sprinkle over plenty of stale 
bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Put 
plenty of butter on top and pour in a cup of the 
water from the clams. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour, and when half done pour in a 
tumbler of sherry. 



Shrimp or Oyster Curry 

Melt four ounces of butter and fry in it four 
young onions and a clove of garlic chopped. 
Add the juice of two limes. Stir into this one 
teaspoonful of corn starch, two tablespoonfuls 
of curry powder and half a cup of cream with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Stir this rapidly over the 
fire until very thick. Thin with milk until it is 
the proper consistency, then add a large cup of 
picked shrimps, and as many oysters. Cook 
two minutes after it boils. 



23 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 

Place two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan and brown over the fire. 
Stir into this one cup of stock, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of finely . chopped raw ham, a 
slice of onion, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Strain the same and add to it a cup of shrimps. 
Simmer again for a few moments and add a 
teaspoonful of tomato or mushroom catsup. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve in 
timbale cases. 



Shrimps with Tomato 

Stew half a dozen large tomatoes with a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a piece of butter, 
salt, pepper and cayenne. Put this through a 
sieve until it is very smooth. Fill a baking 
dish with picked shrimps, pour the tomato 
over them, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
bits of butter, and bake until brown. 

24 



_ FISH _ 

Saute of Shrimps 

Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan with a 
little flour, salt and cayenne. Just as it turns 
dark, put in a glass of white wine, a pound of 
picked shrimps, a little lemon juice, and if 
liked, a bit of anchovy sauce. Take from the 
fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Pour into cup-shaped pieces of fried bread, and 
serve very hot. 



Crab a la Creole 

Fry in four ounces of butter, four young 
onions, one clove of garlic and two green pep- 
pers, all chopped fine. Cook until soft and add 
one tomato cut up, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Stew until smooth and add one teaspoonful of 
flour, a little cream or rich milk, and the meat 
picked from two crabs. Boil a few moments 
and serve with buttered toast. 



25 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Sole a la Normandie 

Take a large sole (one without a roe). Re- 
move the back skin and with a sharp knife very 
carefully cut out the side fins, lay it on the dish 
in which it is to be served, one that may be 
placed in the oven. Brush the fish with melted 
butter. Insert in the flesh of the fish some 
small slices of truffle. Sprinkle it with salt, 
white pepper, a very little mace and dust it all 
over with fine crumbs. Pour around it a 
tumbler of good white wine. Place in a mod- 
erate oven and cook until nearly done, twenty 
minutes or longer, if the fish be large. Take it 
out and put around the edge of the dish a row of 
croutons, brushing them with the white of an 
egg to make them adhere to the dish. Then 
scatter over and around the fish, a small can of 
mushrooms, sliced, oysters, mussels, picked 
shrimps and some quenelles. Add a little more 
melted butter and a few more crumbs, add more 
white wine and put back in the oven for five 
minutes. 



26 



FISH 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian 

Cut a sole or flounder into four filets. Roll 
each one up, stuffing with a mixture of sal 
piquant sauce. Roll around each a thin slice 
of pork and fasten with a skewer. Stand on end 
in a baking pan and put a small piece of butter 
and a slice of lemon on each and bake until 
done. 

Fry together for five minutes, chopped escha- 
lots, parsley, chevril, herbs, butter, salt and 
cayenne. Take from the fire and stir in a little 
lime juice and anchovy sauce. 

A* if 
Baked Sole 

Skin the slack side of the fish and lay in a 
baking pan. Brush with beaten egg, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and pour over them some 
melted butter. Cover the fish with a layer of 
thin slices of pork or bacon. Add one-half pint 
of water and bake half an hour. To make the 

27 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

sauce, take the liquor from the baking pan, add 
to it salt, pepper, cayenne, the juice of one lime, 
a wine glass of sherry, a tablespoonful of mush- 
room or walnut catsup, and a piece of butter 
the size of an egg with a little flour rubbed into 
it. Allow it to boil once and pour over the fish. 



Flounders a la Magouze 

Place several fish into a baking pan with a 
glass of white wine, salt, pepper, and an ounce 
of butter. While they are cooking break three 
eggs into half a pint of cream, and beat until it 
is light. When the fish is done remove them 
from the pan and stir the eggs and cream into 
the gravy. Simmer for two minutes, and pour 
over the fish, serving at once. 



28 



_ FISH _ 

Salmon a la Melville 

Put slices of salmon into a baking pan with a 
little white wine and water. Sprinkle with salt 
and bits of butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 

For a sauce, blanch some very finely chopped 
young onions. Put them in a saucepan with a 
wine glass of white wine, salt, cayenne, a cup of 
picked shrimps, a lemon cut in thin slices, and 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Then 
add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled 
in a very little flour. Remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce 
over the fish and serve. 



Stewed Haddock 

Lay pieces of fish in a pan with the skin side 
up. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and cover 
tightly, allowing the fish to stew in its juice for 
twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a 

29 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pound of butter rolled in flour, and a quarter 
of a glass of wine. Stir the liquor and simmer 
for a few moments, when it is ready to serve. 
No water should be used. 



Bacalas a la Viscaina 

Soak half a salt codfish over night. Put in a 
saucepan one-half cup of olive oil, and two large 
onions cut in bits. When browned add two 
large tomatoes cut up. Stew slowly fifteen 
minutes, adding a little black pepper. Put in 
the fish picked to pieces and cook slowly: half 
an hour. Serve on a platter, with some fried 
whole green peppers on top. 



Baked Sardines 

Remove the skins from large boned sardines 
and heat in the oven on strips of toast. Make 
a sauce as follows: Pour the oil from the sar- 

30 



_ FISH _ 

dines into a saucepan and heat it well. Then 
stir in an ounce of flour, adding a small cup 
of hot water. Season this with a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, salt and paprika. 
Beat the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and one of mustard. Stir this into the 
sauce after it is removed from the fire. Pour 
over the sardines and serve. 



Sardines with Cheese 

Drain the sardines and lay them on strips of 
toast or crisply fried bread. Cover thickly with 
Parmesan cheese and bake in a hot oven until 
light brown in color. Remove and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and pour over all plenty 
of lemon juice. Serve very hot. 



31 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Scalloped Fish Roe 

Boil three large roes in water with a very little 
vinegar for ten minutes. Remove from the 
fire and plunge into cold water, wipe the roe 
dry and break into bits without crushing. 
Have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. 
Mash them into a cup of drawn butter with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy paste, the juice of half a lemon and a cup 
of bread crumbs. Mix very lightly with the 
broken fish roe. Place in a baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and 
brown in the oven. 



Kedgeree 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice and drain it as 
dry as possible. Have ready a cupful of cooked 
fish of any sort broken into pieces. Mix it 
thoroughly with the rice and heat over the fire; 
season with salt and pepper. Beat an egg 
lightly and stir into it. Serve at once. 

32 



FISH 

Bouillabaise 

The fish used for bouillabaise may be any kind 
of firm white fish, and for the following recipe, 
about two pounds are required. Heat in a soup 
kettle four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fry 
in it two large onions sliced, and two cloves of 
garlic. Add the fish cut into bits and just 
cover the mixture with warm water. Then add 
salt, pepper, half of a bay leaf, two large to- 
matoes, peeled and chopped, the juice of half a 
lemon and one cup of white wine. Cook over a 
brisk fire twelve minutes, or until the liquor is 
reduced one-third. Add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley and a pinch of saffron. Cook 
two minutes. Pour the bouillabaise over slices 
of French bread. 



33 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



34 



FISH 



Memo 



35 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Memo 



36 



ENTREES 




ENTREES 



Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

Lay half a dozen sweetbreads in cold water 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil them five minutes, drop into 
cold water, remove the skin and lard with fat 
bacon. Put them in a saucepan with a pint of 
stock, two small onions and one carrot chopped, 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, and a little mace. Stew until tender. 

Serve with a mushroom sauce, made as follows : 
Take a small bottle of mushrooms or one dozen 
fresh mushrooms sliced and boil them five min- 
utes in water and lime juice. Drain and place 
in a stew pan with two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour and a pint of well seasoned stock 
or gravy. Cook until the sauce is reduced one- 
half. Pour over the hot sweetbreads. 



39 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Terrapin 

Boil the terrapin for one hour, and clean care- 
fully. Rub into a paste the yolks of six hard- 
boiled eggs, half the white of one egg chopped, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, three whole cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne 
and mace. Place the terrapin into a stewpan 
with a glass of sherry or madeira and the pre- 
pared paste. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. 
Add three glasses of sherry and madeira and 
allow it to boil once, when it is ready to serve. 



Frogs a la Poulette 

Joint the hind legs and backs of twelve frogs ; 
put in a closely covered saucepan with some 
truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass 
of white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace 
and four ounces of butter. Stew gently fifteen 
minutes, stirring once or twice. If then tender, 
add one teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed into one 
ounce of butter. Let it cook two minutes, take 

40 



ENTREES 



from the fire and stir in the yolks of six eggs 
beaten well with one-half cup of cream. Place 
this mixture where it will keep hot without 
cooking. Cut the crust from a loaf of bread, 
scoop out the center, brush with butter and 
brown in the oven. Pour the frogs legs and 
sauce into the bread cup, garnish with mush- 
rooms and truffles. 



Simmer a calves' head for two hours. Tie the 
brains in a cloth, put them in the saucepan with 
the head and cook two hours longer. Then ex- 
tract the bones and cut the meat in pieces, re- 
turn it to the saucepan without the brains, 
adding two ounces of butter, two dozen stoned 
olives, one dozen cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and a cup of 'white wine. Cook for one hour, 
then add the brains cut in bits, the shaved peel 
and piece of one lemon and three hard-boiled 
eggs sliced. Cook thirty minutes. Thicken 
the sauce with flour rubbed into butter and serye 
with the calves' head. 

41 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chops a la Reine 

Trim twelve lamb chops very closely and fry 
lightly in six ounces of butter. Remove them 
and in the same butter place two onions, sliced, 
four green peppers minced, one can of mush- 
rooms minced, and two stalks of celery chopped ; 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the juice of a lime. 
Cook until these ingredients are soft. Stir in 
six ounces of flour. Then add two cups of 
milk and cook until the mixture is thick and 
smooth. Dust a plate with cracker crumbs and 
on this place a spoonful of the fried mixture. 
Place a chop on top of this, cover it with an- 
other spoonful of the mixture and dust with 
cracker crumbs. Repeat with each chop, and 
when cold roll each in beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry a light brown. 



42 



ENTREES 



Boil four calves' feet until tender. Cut into 
inch pieces and fry in four ounces of butter, with 
two onions, a little garlic, two green peppers and 
some mushrooms, chopped fine, seasoning all 
with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. 
Stir in four ounces of flour and add boiling milk, 
enough to make the mixture as thick as rich 
cream. Put in the calves' feet and mix all well 
together. Then remove from the fire and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs which have been mixed 
with the juice of a lime and a tablespoonful of 
water. Pour the whole into a buttered pan 
and set aside to cool. When cold cut into 
slices, brush with egg and bread crumbs and fry 
in butter until a light brown. 



43 



Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 

Boil chestnuts in salted water for twenty min- 
utes. Shell them, season with salt and pepper, 
add a piece of butter and wet with milk. Mash 
through a colander and heap lightly on a plat- 
ter, arranging broiled chops around the puree. 



Lamb Chops a la Ncsselrode 

Trim carefully one dozen young lamb chops. 
Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of marrow, 
some chopped mushrooms and eschalots. Then 
add a glass of sherry and stir it well before 
adding also a cup of rice, four cups of stock, 
several sweet Chili peppers chopped and some 
salt. Cook for half an hour or until pasty. 
Pour it out in a pan to the thickness of half an 
inch and let cool. Then with a biscuit cutter, 
cut it into rounds about the size of a chop. On 
each one of these rounds place a chop and cover 
the top with Bechamel sauce. When cold dip 
in egg and bread crumbs and fry a light brown. 

44 



ENTREES 



A good recipe for the Bechamel sauce is the 
following: One ounce of butter browned with 
one ounce of flour. To this add half a glass of 
sherry, some finely chopped truffles, one cup 
and a half of stock, salt and pepper, and cook 
for ten minutes. Add the juice of a lime, take 
from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs. 



Devil Chops 

Make a dressing of the following ingredients 
mixed together: One ounce of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of French mustard, one teaspoonful of grated 
horseradish, one teaspoonful of chutney, a 
little Chili vinegar, the juice of one lime, salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Rub this on the chops 
and broil rare. Serve the remaining sauce over 
them in a very hot dish. 



45 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 

Fry one dozen lamb chops in butter and set 
aside to cool. Put in a stew pan two ounces of 
butter with half a can of mushrooms, one small 
onion and a teaspoonful of parsley, all minced 
fine; salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace. 
Cook this gently for ten minutes and add a cup 
of milk thickened with flour and butter, the 
juice of a lemon and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook a few minutes. Take from the fire and 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Cover 
the chops with this and set aside to cool. Brush 
them with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and fry in 
butter to a light brown. Serve with green peas 
in the center of the dish. 



Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 

Lard lamb cutlets with strips of truffle, an- 
chovy and gherkin. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, mushrooms, capers, chives, a little 

46 



ENTREES 



shallot all chopped very fine, pepper, salt and 
butter. Put this on each side of the cutlets 
and cover with crepinette. Broil or fry to a 
light brown and dust over with very fine browned 
bread crumbs. Serve with a browned veal 
gravy and sliced lemon. 



Eggs with Tomatoes 

Fry in two ounces of butter two small dry 
onions and two green peppers, chopped. Add 
half a dozen tomatoes peeled and cut up, salt 
and pepper. Simmer fifteen minutes. Add 
the corn cut from half a dozen ears, and cook 
fifteen minutes longer. Pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, and break over it six eggs. 
Place in the oven until set. 



Macaroni a la Rossini 
Cook a pint or less of macaroni in well salted 
water; drain and put into a stew pan, with a 
little good gravy. Simmer very slowly until the 

47 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

gravy is all absorbed, shaking the pan occa- 
sionally. Put a layer of the macaroni in a 
baking dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and sliced truffles mixed with a little 
good sauce espagnole. Fill the dish and on the 
top layer put truffles. Place in the oven a few 
minutes and serve with grated Parmesan cheese 
on a separate dish. 

j* 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve 
Persons 

Boil one-half pound of macaroni in water for 
five minutes. Cut in inch length pieces and 
simmer for twenty minutes in one quart of milk, 
being careful that it does not boil. Season with 
salt, pepper, mace and cayenne. Add one cup 
of cream, stir until very smooth, add the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs and one can of mushrooms 
sliced. Stir well and then add the macaroni 
with one pound of sweetbreads, cut in small 
pieces and two dozen Eastern oysters. Let 
this cool, then cover with pastry and bake in 
the oven until brown. 

48 



ENTREES 
Memo 



49 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



50 



ENTREES 
Memo 



51 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



52 



CHICKEN 
AND GAME 




CHICKEN AND GAME 



Chicken Portuguese 

Truss two young chickens as though for 
roasting. Lay on the bottom of a large stew pan 
the rind of a piece of pork, and on this, place the 
chicken. Add four ounces of butter, a head of 
celery chopped, two onions sliced, three small 
carrots sliced, two Chili peppers cut up, and the 
halves of two bell peppers from which the seeds 
have been removed. Season with salt, cayenne, 
thyme and a few sweet herbs. Cover and cook 
quickly for forty minutes, moistening from time 
to time with a spoonful of stock or gravy. Then 
add two large tomatoes sliced, and cook twenty 
minutes longer. Serve the chicken with the 
sauce poured over it. 



Chicken with Oysters 

Stuff a young chicken with oyster and a few 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. Truss the fowl, place it in a tin pail 

55 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

with a tight cover. Stand the pail in a kettle 
of boiling water and leave on the fire one hour 
and a half. Remove the chicken and place in a 
dish. Pour the gravy into a saucepan, adding 
two dozen oysters, two hard boiled eggs chopped, 
a wine glass of cream and one ounce of butter, 
into which has been rubbed a teaspoonful of 
corn starch. Boil for a few moments and pour 
over the chicken. 

This is an excellent way to cook a young 
turkey. 



Casuela 

Cut a chicken into small pieces and fry it with 
a clove of garlic in a large tablespoonful of lard, 
for ten minutes. Then add one quart of water, 
half a cupful each of green peas, string beans 
and grains of corn, and boil one and one-half 
hours. Add three potatoes cut into bits, one 
tablespoonful of rice, salt, gepper and the white 
of one egg. Boil for three-quarters of an hour 

56 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



longer, then remove from the fire. In a tureen 
mix one mashed potato with the yolk of the egg 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Strain the 
broth slowly into this and mix thoroughly be- 
fore adding the chicken and other ingredients. 



Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 

Cut up a chicken, and season with salt, pep- 
per and a little mace. Dip the pieces into 
beaten egg, then roll in flour and fry in lard and 
butter until brown. Take out the chicken and 
in the pan put a large piece of butter with a 
little flour. As soon as it froths up stir in milk 
until thick. Let it boil a minute and pour over 
the chicken. 



Chicken with Rice 

Cut up a chicken and stew gently for ten 
minutes in a little water. Add two ounces of 
butter, salt, pepper, mace and a green pepper, 
chopped very fine, stew until done, 

57 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Make a form of boiled rice around a dish and 
lay the chicken in the middle of it. Add to the 
sauce a good piece of butter with a teaspoonful 
of flour rubbed into it and boil two minutes. 
Take from the fire and stir in the yolk of three 
eggs, beaten with a half cup of rich cream. Pour 
over the chicken and serve. 



Chicken with Spaghetti 

Prepare the spaghetti by boiling about three 
pounds in salted water for twenty minutes. 

Stew a chicken in water until tender and pick 
it to pieces, adding enough of the gravy to make 
a quart. Into this put four sliced onions that 
have been fried in two ounces of butter, and one 
quart of tomatoes. Stew for fifteen minutes. 
Place a layer of spaghetti on a platter and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over 
some of the chicken sauce and repeat the layers, 
putting the best of the chicken on top. 



58 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Quail with Celery 

Cut six quail in halves and cover them with 
water in a stewpan, adding strips of salt pork, 
some finely chopped celery, salt and pepper. 
Cook until done. Remove the birds and strain 
the liquor; add to it, two ounces of flour rubbed 
into two ounces of butter, the remainder of the 
head of celery grated, and two cups of milk. 
When it thickens pour over the birds and serve 
very hot. 



Pheasant a la Savarin 

Place on the bottom of a roasting pan two 
slices of bread cut two inches thick. Spread 
over this the pounded liver and heart of the bird 
with an anchovy, a bit of ham and two truffles 
minced. On this lay the pheasant and roast 
until done. Serve on the cooked bread. 

Nothing but the finest Burgundy should be 
served with this. 

59 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Quail and Onion 

To each quail allow one good sized onion, 
sliced, and half a glass each of oil and vinegar. 
Stew in a covered pot until the birds are tender. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve with any 
good sauce. 



Salmi of Duck with Olives 

Roast for eight minutes two sprig tail ducks, 
take out and cut the meat from the bones. 
Break up the bones. Cover with water in a 
saucepan and cook with a dozen cloves, one 
onion and some chopped celery, to make a 
gravy. When done strain it off. To this gravy 
add the meat, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, one-half head of celery, cut in strips, 
one teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen 
stoned olives. Cook gently ten minutes, stirring 
it well until smooth. Add a piece of butter 
rolled in brown flour. Stew five minutes and 
serve very hot. 

60 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Stewed Squabs 

Make a stuffing of the livers and hearts of six 
birds chopped fine, with a little butter, chopped 
pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne and a 
little lemon. Stuff the squabs with the above. 
Put them in a stew pan and cover with stock 
and stew one-half hour. Take out the birds, 
add salt, cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, one tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, one tablespoonful of lime juice, a large 
glass of port or sherry, and two ounces of butter, 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls of browned 
flour. 

Return the birds to the sauce for ten minutes. 
Fry some thick slices of bread, place a bird on 
each and pour the sauce over them. 



61 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



62 



CHICKEN AND GAME 
Memo 



63 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



64 



MEATS 




_ MEATS _ 

Yorkshire Steaks 

Fry in butter several small tenderloin steaks, 
with two onions sliced and one cucumber sliced. 
When well browned add a pint of stock, salt, 
pepper and cayenne and one teaspoonful of 
made mustard. Simmer an hour or longer. 



Filet of Beef a la Rossini 

Braise a larded filet of beef with what vege- 
tables are in season. Put in a saucepan and 
moisten while cooking with a bottle of good 
claret or sherry. When done garnish the meat 
with macaroni prepared as follows: Boil one- 
half pound of macaroni, cut into three-inch 
lengths and put in a saucepan with some sliced 
mushrooms, one-half pint of good stock, three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat 
of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Toss 
over the fire until well mixed and serve around 
the beef. Strain the vegetables out of the gravy 
and pour over the beef. 

67 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Yorkshire Pudding 

This is to be served with roast beef, and it 
should be baked in the pan of drippings in which 
the beef has cooked. Mix a cup of flour with a 
cup of milk, salt and one egg beaten. Bake 
quickly and serve at once. 



Cold Roast Beef Stewed 

Cut the remains of a cold roast into pieces, 
flour the pieces and fry in butter until brown. 
Then put them into a saucepan with a cup of 
stock, a glass of port, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Simmer five minutes and add one tablespoonful 
of lime juice before serving. 



Lobscouse 

Soak four thick slices of corned beef in fresh 
water for two hours. Fry four slices of salt pork 
or bacon. In the fat fry four sliced onions a 

68 



_ MEATS _ 

light brown. Place in a stewpan the beef, 
onions and pork or bacon. Add a dozen sliced 
potatoes, cover with water and season highly 
with pepper. Cover and stew gently until the 
meat is tender. Then break into the stewpan 
four sea biscuits, cook for five minutes longer. 
The liquor may be thickened a little more with 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little cold 
water. 



Perchero 

Place five pounds of beef in a large pot half 
filled with water. Boil for three hours, having 
seasoned well with salt and pepper. Then add 
a large piece of pumpkin cut in pieces, a pint of 
string beans, a cup of corn, a large onion sliced, 
a carrot and a turnip diced, and a bell pepper 
minced. Simmer for half an hour. Then add 
half a cup of rice and one teaspoonfulof saffron. 
Cook for half an hour longer. In another sauce- 
pan boil a cabbage, and in a third pan stew some 

69 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

peeled apples and bananas cut up. Put the 
meat in the center of a platter and place the 
mixed fruits and vegetables around it. 



Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 

Place in a saucepan three onions sliced, a 
carrot and a potato diced; salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of lime juice or vinegar, with thin 
slices of cold meat. Cover closely and simmer 
for one hour, add half a cup of cold water and 
simmer one hour longer. Season with a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire and thicken the 
gravy with an ounce of flour rubbed into butter. 



Lamb with Macaroni 

Cover the bottom of a baking pan with slices 
of bacon. Place on them a breast of young 
lamb and cover it with slices of bacon and thin 
slices of a peeled lemon. Season with salt and 

70 



MEATS 

pepper, add a small onion minced and a cup of 
stock. Cover and bake slowly for two hours. 
Boil half a cup of macaroni in gravy to 
which a few peeled tomatoes may be added. 
When tender, place it on a serving dish, lay 
the lamb on it and pour over all the gravy 
which may be thickened with a little flour. 
& 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 

Soak a fresh tongue in cold water for one hour, 
then boil it three hours and remove the skin. 
Place the tongue in a stewpan with half a head 
of celery, one turnip, one carrot and two onions 
cut in small pieces, one dozen cloves, salt and 
cayenne. Simmer for one and one-half hours. 
Take out the tongue and add to the gravy one 
tablespoonful of made mustard, one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce,. three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, three pickeled gherkins chopped, 
one glass of port or red wine, and two ounces 
of butter, creamed with three ounces of browned 
flour. Cook until smooth. Return the tongue 
to the sauce and simmer half an hour. 
71 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Pork Pie 

Cut into small pieces enough pork to fill a 
baking dish. Season it with salt, pepper and 
mace. Use no water. Cover the meat with a 
thick pastry crust and bake in a slow oven for 
two hours. Make a gravy of the bones and 
scraps of the pork, well seasoned, and pour into 
the pie after it is baked. 



To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 

Dress a pig of ten weeks old as if to roast. 
Make a stuffing of the liver, two anchovies, and 
sage leaves all chopped small; bread crumbs, 
four ounces of butter, salt, cayenne and a half 
pint of red wine. Stuff and sew the pig up. 
Roast at an open fire. Put in the dripping pan 
three bottles or more of red wine. Baste the 
pig frequently and when almost done put in the 
pan close to the fire two loaves of bread. Stand 
the pig in the dish for serving and put a lemon in 
his mouth. Place one of the loaves of bread 

72 



_ MEATS _ 

on each side; to the gravy in the pan add one 
anchovy, one-half lemon and a few sweet herbs, 
all chopped fine. Boil it a few minutes and 
pour over the pig. Lay slices of lemon and 
barberries round the dish. 



To Boil a Ham 

Soak a ham for one hour and clean with a 
brush. Put it in a kettle with plenty of cold 
water and after it boils cook seven hours, skim 
well and always replenish with boiling water. 
After it has boiled three hours add half a hand- 
ful of whole cloves and at the end of five hours 
add one and a half pints of vinegar. After 
boiling, skin the ham, sprinkle it with crumbs, 
stick with cloves and roast in a moderate oven, 
thirty minutes, basting with a liquor of half 
vinegar and half water. 



73 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Mexican Tripe 

Dip a thick honey comb piece of tripe in 
butter, then in crumbs, and broil over a clear fire 
until well done, sprinkling over it whilst cooking 
three or four finely chopped green Chilis. Melt 
in a hot soup plate one ounce of butter, adding 
salt, pepper and cayenne, and one teaspoonful 
of made mustard, rub smooth and add one-half 
teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and the juice of one small 
lime. Lay the tripe in this sauce as soon as it is 
removed from the fire. Serve with buttered 
toast. An excellent prelude to this dish is 
a plate of onion soup. 



Spanish Bacon on Toast 

Fry a crisp brown, twelve slices of bacon. 
Remove the bacon from the frying pan, leaving 
some of the fat. Into this stir two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and a cup of milk; a small onion 

74 



MEATS 

minced and a dash of pepper. Cook until it is 
smooth. Have six slices of toast ready. On 
each, place two slices of the fried bacon and on 
each a slice of raw tomato. Pour the sauce over 
the toast and bacon and tomato, and serve 
very hot. 



75 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



76 



MEATS 



Memo 



77 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



MEATS 



Memo 



79 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



80 



SAUCES 




_ SAUCES _ 

Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 

Melt together in a hot soup plate one ounce 
of butter, and an equal amount of currant jelly. 
Add the juice of a lime, a glass of sherry and a 
small cupful of finely chopped celery. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. 



Sauce for Wild Fowl 

Take one shallot chopped, salt, cayenne, 
mace, a glass of port or claret, one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, the rind of one-half lime and 
one tablespoonful of lime juice. Boil these in- 
gredients for five minutes. Strain the liquor 
and add to any gravy. 



83 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Heat a bowl with boiling water, and wipe dry. 
In it beat quarter of a cup of butter to a cream. 
Add the yolks of two raw eggs, one at a time, 
beating until smooth. Then add a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, salt and cayenne, and beat 
the mixture with a fork or an egg beater, for 
five minutes. Place the bowl in boiling water. 
Stir into the sauce two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, and beat until the sauce is smooth and 
thick as mayonnaise. 



Parsley Butter 

Beat three tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Add half a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 
of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat all together several minutes, when it is 
ready for use. An excellent dressing for fried 
or broiled fish. 



84 



_ SAUCES _ 

Green Sauce 

Mix in a bowl a tablespoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, with one table- 
spoonful of Tarragon vinegar and one of cider 
vinegar. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 



Egg Sauce 

Beat two ounces of butter to a froth. Mix 
into it one tablespoonful of flour and the yolk 
of one egg. Pour a cup of hot water of this 
batter, stirring constantly. Heat over the fire 
until it is thick and smooth, but be careful not 
to boil. Just before serving stir .in two hard 
boiled eggs finely chopped. 



Celery Sauce 

Put in a stewpan with salt, cayenne and a 
blade of mace, three grated heads of celery. 
Cover with boiling water. Boil ten minutes 

85 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

and drain. Return to the fire with enough veal 
stock to cover the celery and stew half an hour. 
Then add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, 
and half a cup of cream. Shake over the fire a 
minute or two and serve at once. 


Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 

Put in a saucepan half a teacupful of soup 
stock, three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of made mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of French mustard, two cloves of 
garlic chopped fine, one onion chopped, two 
green peppers and one pickeled gherkin chopped, 
one tomato peeled and cut up, the juice of half 
a lime and half a lime cut in thin slices. Sim- 
mer for one hour, then add the following : One 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of 
Imperial sauce, one of Tarragon vinegar, two 
of Bon Gout sauce, two of mushroom catsup, 
two of walnut catsup and two tablespoonfuls of 
chutney, add half a pint of sherry and simmer 
for fifteen minutes. 

This will keep several months. 
86 



_ SAUCES _ 

Onion Sauce 

Boil three good sized onions, one hour. Drain 
and put in a stewpan with one-half pint of milk 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then rub through a sieve and put back 
in the pan with one-half pint of cream and one 
ounce of butter. 

Simmer ten minutes and serve very hot. 



Garlic Sauce 

Rub together in a mortar until smooth, two 
ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Add a tablespoonful of 
lime juice and one-half a pint of melted butter. 
Beat until light and smooth, when it is ready 
to serve. 



87 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Melted Butter 

Take one pint of milk and one teaspoonful 
of salt ; when it boils stir into it three ounces of 
butter, a little cayenne and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour rubbed into it. Let it boil one minute 
and serve at once. 



Salad Dressing Without Oil 

Put in a double saucepan the yolks of three 
e gg s ne teaspoonful of salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and one tablespoonful of dry mustard. Mix 
well and sift in two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four 
of water. Stir until quite smooth. Place over 
the fire, stirring continually one way. As soon 
as it thickens remove from the fire and beat in 
three ounces of butter. Use when cool. 



88 



SAUCES 



Memo 



89 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



90 



SAUCES 



Memo 



91 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



92 



VEGETABLES 




_ VEGETABLES _ 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 

Boil large choice asparagus until tender. 
Put a layer of stalks upon the dish on which 
they are to be served. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and a little grated Parmesan 
cheese. Make three layers of this and pour 
over all a little melted butter. Break on top a 
fresh egg for each person, and put in the oven 
until set. Serve very hot. To be served in- 
dividually, six stalks may be placed on each 
dish, covered with cheese, and an egg broken 
over them. Serve after placing in the oven a 
few moments. 



Corn au Gratin 

Score down twelve ears of boiled corn, and 
with the back of a knife press out the kernels. 
Put them into a baking dish with a large piece 
of butter, salt, pepper, a finely chopped green 
pepper and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
or Gruyere cheese. Place in a hot oven until 
just browned and serve immediately. 

95 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chonfleur au Gratin 

Boil a large cauliflower twenty minutes in 
salted water. When tender drain and put on 
the dish on which it is to be served. Make a 
sauce of two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour 
and half a pint of milk, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne. Mix this 
well, putting in the cheese last. Pour it over 
the cauliflower and sprinkle more cheese over 
the top. Set in a hot oven until browned and 
serve at once. 



Okra 

Cut the stems off of young okra pods and boil 
in water until the seeds turn red, which should 
be in half an hour. Drain and toss in a pan 
with butter, salt, pepper and cayenne. 



96 



VEGETABLES 



Potato Cream 

Boil six medium-sized, mealy potatoes and 
when soft press them through a sieve until light 
and floury. Then beat into them the raw 
yolks of six eggs and a little milk and butter. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with 
finely chopped chevril and thyme, and fine dice 
of fried bread before serving. 



Sweet Potatoes 

Take six good sized sweet potatoes and boil 
until nearly done. Then peel them and roll in 
melted butter, lay in a buttered baking pan. 
Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake until done. 



Chili Beans 

Take four cups of red beans, one onion, four 
cloves of garlic, cover with water and cook all 
day in a covered saucepan. Add a little water 

97 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

from time to time if too dry. Cook slowly four 
red peppers and five black peppers with seeds 
out, three black peppers with seeds, four cloves 
of garlic, four onions with the hearts taken out, 
salt, and one cup of beef stock. Rub through 
a sieve. Put in a saucepan four tablespoonfuls 
of marrow. When very hot add the beans and 
then the sauce. 



To Boil Rice 

Have plenty of salted water, with the juice 
of a lime in it. When boiling add rice that has 
been washed in three waters. Boil fast for 
sixteen minutes. Try a grain, and if done dash 
in a glass of cold water. Drain at once through 
a colander. Cover with a cloth and let stand 
by the fire for a few minutes, shaking up the 
colander once or twice. This will make every 
grain separate. 



98 



VEGETABLES 

Risotto 

Fry two chopped onions in butter until light 
brown in color. Add one cup of raw rice and 
cover with beef stock. As the rice absorbs the 
stock add more until done. Then add two large 
tomatoes stewed with a little sugar and highly 
seasoned. Place on the dish for serving and 
grate Parmesan cheese over it. 



99 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



100 



VEGETABLES 



Memo 



101 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



102 



SALADS 




_ SALADS _ 

Club Salad 

Boil separately two carrots, two turnips, and 
four potatoes. When cold, cut the vegetables 
into dice and mix them together, adding three 
apples peeled and cut into small bits. Toss in a 
large salad bowl with several olives for garnish. 
Bits of celery or cold cauliflower may be added. 
Pour over all a mayonnaise, or if preferred, a 
French dressing. Another dressing that is 
excellent with this salad is one made of the 
yolks of four raw eggs beaten into half a glass of 
rich cream which may be either sweet or sour. 
To this add one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
mustard and a wineglassful of vinegar, blending 
carefully. 



Winter Salad 

Cut the white stalks of a head of celery into 
small bits. Mix with two boiled potatoes cut 
in dice, two or three boiled beets cut in dice, a 
large white onion boiled and cut up, some 

105 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

chopped truffles, anchovies and stoned olives, 
a tablespoonful or more of each. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 



Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad 

Make a paste of two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, two ounces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, the yolk of one egg, salt and cayenne. Roll 
out the paste until about one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Cut into very narrow strips and place 
on a buttered tin. Bake ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 



106 



SALADS 



Memo 



107 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



108 



D ESS ERTS 
AND CAKES 




DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Mince Meat 

Measure carefully and mix together the fol- 
lowing ingredients: Two pounds of roast beef 
finely chopped, two pounds of chopped beef 
suet, two pounds of chopped peeled apples, two 
pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds Sultana 
raisins, two pounds of washed currants, two 
pounds of white sugar, one pound of citron cut 
in bits, one pound of dried orange peel, two 
nutmegs grated, three teaspoonfuls of ground 
mace, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
three teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind and juice of 
two oranges, one quart of brandy, one quart of 
sherry and one glass of blackberry jelly. After 
mixing thoroughly place the mince meat in a 
stone jar and use it from this. 

& * 
Hot Zabajone 

Beat well together the yolks of six eggs, and 
half a cup of sugar. Heat in a double saucepan, 
being careful to stir only one way. Place in a 

111 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

strainer the shaved peel of three oranges. 
Through this pour "slowly into the eggs a quart 
of champagne (white wine may be substituted) , 
and allow the mixture to thicken. Serve hot 
in champagne glasses. 



Frozen Zabajone 

Mix the same as for hot zabajone, adding 
another half cup of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of orange juice. When it is cold half freeze in 
a freezer. Then remove and place in paper 
cases or moulds, on the ice. 



Genoise Pastry 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter and half a 
cup of sugar. Break into the cream three eggs, 
one at a time, and mix until smooth. Stir in 
half a cup of flour. Pour out on a buttered tin 
and bake ten or fifteen minutes. When cold 

112 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



spread thickly with apricot jam and cover with 
chocolate icing. Set in the oven a few moments, 
then put aside to cool. Cut into odd shapes 
before serving. 

if & 
Omelette Souffle 

Beat to a cream the yolks of six eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Place in a frying pan over the fire 
four ounces of butter. When it is melted mix the 
yolks and whites together and stir quickly into 
the pan. As soon as the eggs have absorbed 
the butter, pour them into a buttered baking 
dish and set in a hot oven for six or seven min- 
utes. Serve at once. 

if & 
Marmalade Pudding 

Cream half a cup of sugar and two teaspoon- 
fuls of butter. Beat into this the yolks of four 
eggs and one cup of cream or milk. Add a cup 

113 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

of fine bread crumbs and the beaten whites of 
the eggs; then a cup of orange marmalade, or 
some other fruit marmalade. Pour into a but- 
tered mould and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Turn out of the mould and serve with 
a brandy sauce, or cream. 

# & 
Amherst Pudding 

Line a baking dish with thinly rolled pie crust 
or puff paste. Fill with the following mixture. 
A small cup of butter creamed with two cups of 
sugar and beaten up with four or five eggs, a 
cupful of finely chopped apple added, with the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon and a little 
water. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake for 
half an hour in a moderate oven. 



Brown Betty 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with bread 
crumbs, over which place a layer of thinly sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and 

114 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



small pieces of butter, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
then cover with bread crumbs and repeat the 
layers until the dish is filled, having a layer of 
crumbs sprinkled with bits of butter on top. 
Then pour over all three-quarters of a cup 
of molasses thinned with a little hot water. 
Bake until the apples are tender and the top is 
well browned. 



Chocolate Pudding 

Grate one-half a pound of Baker's chocolate, 
and melt it in half a pint of hot milk. Stir into 
the milk also half a cup of bread crumbs, one cup 
of powdered sugar and the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Wet a melon mould in cold water and 
pour the mixture into it. Boil three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve with cream, or the following 
sauce: Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. 
Heat a cup of wine and a cup of sugar until the 
sugar is melted. Remove from the fire and stir 
in the eggs quickly. 

115 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 

Butter thickly some slices of bread and lay in 
a baking dish. Cover them with thick black 
molasses and bake slowly. The pudding should 
be served hot, with thick cream. 

A* a* 
Baked Bananas 

Put into a bowl three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, six of sugar, and three of wine. Set the 
bowl in hot water to melt the butter. Peel 
the fruit and lay it in a baking pan. Pour 
over it the mixture in the bowl, and bake half 
an hour, basting several times. 

A* if 

Hermits 

Cream two cups of sugar and one cup of 
butter. Add three well beaten eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Sift into this six cups 

116 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



of flour and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg and clove. Add last a cup of chopped 
raisins. Roll the dough out about one-quarter 
of an inch thick, cut into small squares and 
bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. 



Lady Baltimore Cake 

Cream one pound of sugar and half a pound 
of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of eight 
eggs separately, and add the beaten yolks to 
the butter and sugar. Stir in half a pint of 
milk and one pound of flour with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and bake in three layers. 
For the filling, boil three cups of powdered 
sugar and three-quarters of a cup of water for 
five minutes. Beat four eggs, the yolks and 
whites together, and into them stir the boiling 
syrup, add two cups of chopped raisins and 
two cups of almonds, chopped and blanched. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread thickly between 
the layers of cake. Cover with white frosting. 

117 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Silver Cake 

Beat lightly the whites of eight eggs. Cream 
two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter. 
Stir into the eggs, adding three-fourths of a 
cup of milk. Sift into the batter three cups 
of flour and one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Gold Cake 

Cream a cup of sugar and three-fourths of a 
cup of butter. Mix into this the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs and half a cup of milk. Last add 
one and a half cups of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in a long 
bread tin. 



Fig Filling for Cake 

Chop together one pound of dried figs and 
one cup of seeded raisins. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon and sugar to taste. 

118 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Pour over the mixture a cup of water and heat 
thoroughly, mixing it over the fire. Spread 
between layers of white cake. 



Thin Gingerbread 

Place in a saucepan one pint of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and let them boil 
together for a moment. Then remove from 
the fire, and when nearly cool stir in flour 
enough to make a thick batter or dough. 
Spread thinly on tins and bake quickly. 



119 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



120 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 
Memo 



121 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



122 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 
Champagne Cup I 

Pour on a sliced cucumber one pint of sherry 
and one-half pint of brandy. Grate the rind 
of two lemons over a little sugar. Add it to 
the mixture with the juice of one lemon and 
the juice of three oranges, half a pint of 
Curacao, two bottles of seltzer, three bottles 
of apollinaris and three bottles of cham- 
pagne. Sweeten to taste and ice well. 



Champagne Cup II 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the juice and shaved peel of a lemon, a few 
slices of cucumbers, one wine glass of Curacao, 
one quart of apollinaris and one quart of 
champagne. Pour over a block of ice in a 
punch bowl. 



125 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Champagne Cup III 

Rub three ounces of sugar on lemon peel and 
put in a punch bowl with the juice of four 
lemons, one quart of apollinaris, and one 
quart of orgeat. Beat this well. Then add 
one pint of brandy, half a glass of Jamaica 
rum and a glass of Maraschino. Strain into a 
bowl of ice and just before serving, pour in 
three quarts of champagne. 



Champagne Cup IV 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar rubbed on the 
peel of a lemon and mixed with the juice of 
half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, one 
wine glass each of Maraschino and brandy 
and a quart each of apollinaris and champagne. 
Ice well. 



126 



WJNE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup V 

Rub two ounces of sugar over the peel of an 
orange. Mix with it the juice of an orange, 
two wine glasses of sherry, one wine glass of 
Maraschino, and a quart each of apollinaris and 
champagne. Add a few slices of cucumber 
and plenty of ice. 



Hock Cup 

Pour over a block of ice in a punch bowl, a 
wine glass of Maraschino, two quarts of apol- 
linaris, two quarts of sparkling hock and the 
juice of two lemons. Sweeten with two 
ounces of sugar. 



Badminton Claret Cup 

Rub six lumps of sugar on a lemon, strain 
the juice of the lemon over the sugar and add 
a glass of good sherry, two sprigs of verbena, 

127 



a few slices of cucumber and a quart of claret. 
Place in the bowl a large piece of ice, and when 
ready to serve add a quart of sparkling mineral 
water. 



Moselle Cup 

Place the following ingredients in a punch 
bowl, with a block of ice, two ounces of sugar, 
the shaved peel of half an orange, three peaches 
sliced, a small pineapple sliced, half a dozen 
apricots, a wine glass of sherry, a quart of 
sparkling Moselle and a quart of apollinaris. 



Sauterne Cup 

Pour in a punch bowl, with ice, a quart each 
of sauterne, apollinaris and champagne, a wine 
glass of Chartreuse and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. 



128 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Punch 

In a bowl place one sliced orange, one lime 
sliced very thin, and the juice of another lime, 
one-fourth of a pineapple sliced, and one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar. Let stand twelve 
hours. Put a large block of ice in a punch 
bowl, add the above ingredients with a wine 
glass of Maraschino, two tumblers of sauterne, 
a wine glass of raspberry syrup, and last of all, 
one quart of champagne, a few whole straw- 
berries and a claret glass of Benedictine may 
also be added. 



"T" Punch 

Slice a whole pineapple and three lemons, 
and place in a punch bowl with the juice only 
of nine other lemons, add two pounds of sugar, 
and let these ingredients stand several hours. 
Then add one quart each of green tea, Jamaica 
rum, brandy, claret, a pint of Curacao, and 

129 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

allow it to stand another hour. Then place 
in the punch bowl with a large block of ice, 
and pour in six quarts of champagne. 

& if 

New York Club Punch 

Take two pounds of lump sugar and squeeze 
over it the juice of one dozen lemons, using a 
little of the grated rind. Let this stand three 
hours, then strain the syrup through two thick- 
nesses of flannel and set away on ice. Just 
before serving add one quart each of brandy, 
Jamaica rum, Madeira and water. 

A & 

Milk Punch 

Take the juice and shaved peel of two dozen 
lemons, mix with five quarts of water, three 
pounds of loaf sugar and six quarts of rum. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add two 
quarts of boiling milk and allow the mixture 
to stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
twice through a cloth. 

130 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Apple Toddy I 

Bake slowly two dozen cored apples until 
done. Place in a large stone jar with eight 
pounds of sugar. Pour over them four gallons 
of boiling water and let stand for forty-eight 
hours. Then remove the apples and crush 
them after taking off the skins. Return the 
fine pulp to the jar, and add one gallon of 
whiskey, one gallon of brandy, one gallon of 
peach brandy and three pints of Jamaica rum. 
The toddy should stand in the covered jar for 
a week before being used. 

A 
Apple Toddy II 

Prepare six cored apples by sticking a dozen 
cloves in each and baking slowly until soft. 
Put them in a stone jar and pour over them a 
toddy made of two quarts of whiskey, one 
quart of brandy, one pint of rum and three 
cups of water, sweeten to taste and cover 
closely, allowing the mixture to blend for a 
week before using. 

131 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Memo 



132 



INDEX 

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS Page 

Onion Soup 

Palestine Soup "II"! 

Black Bean Soup IIIIII 

Parker House Tomato Soup "II! 

Celery Soup "."1111111 !IIIIII! 

Bisque of Frowns or Shrimps 

Lobster Soup g 

Venison Soup "_' 7 

Puree of Venison g 

Clear Soup Stock IIIIII 9 

Daniel Webster's Chowder I. III! 9 

Scott's Chowder 10 

Marblehead Chowder 11 

Clam Chowder I IIIIII! 12 

Clam Chowder II IIIIIIIIII 13 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder IIIIIIIIIII.IIII.il 13 

FISH 

Oysters a la Marechale . 21 

Toasted Angels ! 21 

Oyster Pates 22 

Scalloped Clams IIIIIIII 22 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry IIIII 23 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 24 

Shrimps with Tomato IIIIIIIII.il"! ! 24 

Saute of Shrimps I.IIIIII"! ! 25 

Crab a la Creole III.""!! 25 

Sole a la Normandie II.II 26 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian ! 27 

Baked Sole 27 

Flounders a la Magouze . 28 

Salmon a la Melville IIIII!!II 29 

Stewed Haddock 1. 1. 1. II 29 

Bacalas a la Viscaina I.. I 30 

Baked Sardines 30 

Sardines with Cheese . 31 

Scalloped Fish Roe 32 

Kedgeree ..IIIIIIIIIIIII 32 

Bouillabaise 33 

ENTREES 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 39 

Terrapin 40 

Frogs a la Poulette 40 

Calves' Head en Tortue 41 

Chops a la Reine 42 

Calves' Feet a la Marechale 43 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 44 



INDEX Continued 

Page 

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 44 

Devil Chops - 45 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 46 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 46 

Eggs with Tomatoes 47 

Macaroni a la Rossini 47 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve Persons 48 

CHICKEN AND GAME 

Chicken Portuguese 55 

Chicken with Oysters 55 

Casuela 56 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 57 

Chicken with Rice 57 

Chicken with Spaghetti 58 

Quail with Celery--- 59 

Pheasant a la Savarin 59 

Quail and Onion 60 

Salmi of Duck with Olives 60 

Stewed Squabs 61 

MEATS 

Yorkshire Steaks 67 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 67 

Yorkshire Pudding 68 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed 68 

Lobscouse 68 

Perchero ' 69 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 70 

Lamb with Macaroni 70 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 71 

Pork Pie 72 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 72 

To Boil a Ham 73 

Mexican Tripe 74 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 74 

SAUCES 

Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 83 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 83 

Hollandaise Sauce 84 

Parsley Butter 84 

Green Sauce 85 

Egg Sauce 85 

Celery Sauce 85 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 86 

Onion Sauce 87 

Garlic Sauce 87 

Melted Butter 88 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 88 



INDEX Continued 

VEGETABLES Page 

Asparagus aux Milanaise 95 

Corn au Gratin 95 

Chonfleur au Gratin 96 

Okra .- 96 

Potato Cream. 97 

Sweet Potatoes 97 

Chili Beans 97 

To Boil Rice.. 98 

Risotto - 99 

SALADS 

Club Salad 105 

Winter Salad 105 

Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad 106 

DESSERTS AND CAKES 

Mince Meat 111 

Hot Zabajone 111 

Frozen Zabajone 112 

Genoise Pastry 112 

Omelette Souffle. 113 

Marmalade Pudding 113 

Amherst Pudding 114 

Brown Betty 114 

Chocolate Pudding 115 

Bread and Molasses Pudding. 116 

Baked Bananas 116 

Hermits 116 

Lady Baltimore Cake 117 

Silver Cake 118 

Gold Cake 118 

Fig Filling for Cake 118 

Thin Gingerbread 119 

WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup I 125 

Champagne Cup II 125 

Champagne Cup III ._ 126 

Champagne Cup IV 126 

Champagne Cup V 127 

Hock Cup 127 

Badminton Claret Cup 127 

Moselle Cup 128 

Sauterne Cup. 128 

Champagne Punch 129 

"T" Punch 129 

New York Club Punch 130 

Milk Punch . 130 

Apple Toddy I 131 

Apple Toddy II 131 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




Gift of 
W. M. Wharton, Jr. 



1 



•':-j 



/ 



i 



Joe Tilden's Recipes 
for Epicures 



JOETILDEN'5 

RECIPES FOR 

EPICURES 



A. M. ROBERTSON 

SAN FRANCISCO 

1907 






i I 

si 



COPYRIGHT BY 

A. M. ROBEFTTSON 

I0O7 



THE SEQUOIA PRESS 
BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA 



i 

-9-4 - 6 I i 



Introductory Note 



Major Joseph Tilden was in his time one of the most 
famous Bohemians and epicureans of the Pacific Coast. 
Ever since his death his many friends have been tr3ring 
to learn the culinary secrets which made a repast of 
his devising so delicious. He had given his recipes to 
but few, and those few his most intimate friends and 
fellow spirits. One of the most favored of his old 
companions has given this complete collection of his 
recipes for publication. 

San Francisco, May, 1907. 



SOUPS AND 
CHOWDERS 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Onion Soup 

Place six ounces of butter in a large saucepan 
over the fire, and stir into it four large white 
onions cut up, not sliced. Stew this very slowly 
for one hour, stirring frequently to prevent its 
scorching. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
about one quart of stock, and cook one hour 
longer. Then stir into the mixture one and a 
half cups of milk and simmer for a few minutes. 
Have ready a soup tureen. In it beat the yolks 
of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir the hot soup into this^ 
beating until it thickens a little. A slice of 
toasted French bread should be placed in each 
plate, and the soup poured over it. 

Palestine Soup 

Slice two or three Jerusalem artichokes and 
place in two quarts of boiling water. Cook for 
one and one-half hours. Then rub the arti- 
chokes through a colander and add to them one 

3 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pint of the wat^ in whicli they were boiled. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 
the same amount of butter. Add two cups of 
milk and boil for ten minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve with croutons. 

Black Bean Soup 

Soak over night one quart of black turtle 
beans in water to cover them. In the morning 
strain and boil them in four quarts of water for 
one hour, skimming frequently. Then put into 
the liquor two white onions sliced, two stalks of 
celery cut into bits, salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
one teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 
Boil for three hours. Remove from the stove 
and add enough stock to thin the mixture to 
the consistency of a cream soup. Pour into it 
nearly a tumbler of sherry and add a thinly sliced 
lime. Place over the fire to boil for five minutes. 
Just before serving stir into the soup three hard- 
boiled eggs, finely chopped. Force meat balls 
Lay be added. 

4 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Parker House Tomato Soup 

Put into a saucepan five pounds of tomatoes, 
either fresh or canned, with one quart of water, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and three ounces of butter, 
rubbed into one heaping tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook slowly one hour. Remove from the fire 
and rub through a sieve. Place over the fire 
again and add one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of rice flour which has been dissolved in a little 
water. Let it come to a boil, when it is ready 
to serve. 

Celery Soup 

Boil one small cupful of rice in three pints of 
milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, 
until it is tender. Then rub it through a sieve 
and add one quart of veal Stock, salt, cayenne, 
and three heads of celery (the white stalks only) 
which have been previously grated. Boil until 
the celery is tender. 

5 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bisque of Prawns or Shrimps 

Boil three dozen prawns twenty minutes in 
salted water to cover them. Meanwhile in two 
small tablespoonfuls of butter, fry an onion and 
a carrot sliced, and a small piece of salt pork 
chopped. Take the prawns out of the boiling 
water and add to it the fried mixture with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs and one-half the 
prawns added again. Simmer one hour. Pound 
the shells of the prawns in a mortar with a little 
butter, to form a smooth paste. Stir this into 
the soup and boil twenty nainutes. Strain 
through a sieve. Add one quart of milk and 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred into a 
little of the cold milk. Let it boil up, and serve. 
It should be as thick as rich cream. 

Lobster Soup 

Pick the meat from a five poimd lobster and 
pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a 
little milk or cream. When perfectly smooth, 

6 



SOUPS AND CHOfFDERS 



add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley (if liked) , cayenne and mace. 
Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
mix this with the yolk of an %gg and fry it in 
butter. Mix the rest of the pounded lobster 
with two quarts of milk and rub through a 
sieve. Put this in a saucepan and simmer ten 
minutes. Add two ounces of butter and stir 
until melted and smooth. Pour over the fried 
balls in the tureen and serve very hot. 

Venison Soup 

Cut six pounds of lean venison into medium 
sized pieces and place in a soup kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, to which add two dozen 
cloves and four blades of mace. Boil slowly 
three hours. Then add two pounds of venison, 
cut into pieces about an inch square and one 
dozen force meat balls. Boil for thirty min- 
utes. Then season with salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and half a glass of lime juice, letting the soup 
cook ten minutes longer. It should be served 

7 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

in hot bowls in each of which is poured a half 
glass of port before serving. Crisp croutons 
may be added. 

Puree of Venison 

Cut up the remains of venison that had been 
roasted for a former dinner, put a few slices of 
ham into a stew pan, then the venison, two whole 
onions, a blade of mace, two quarts of stock, 
and a small piece of a sprig of thyme, parsley, 
and two cloves. Set it on the stove to simmer, 
two hours or more. Strain it off, and pull all 
the meat to pieces. Pound it with the lean ham 
that was boiled with it, the crust of two French 
rolls which has been soaked in consomme. 
Rub the whole through a colander with a glass 
of claret or port and enough consomme to bring 
it to the consistency of cream. Put it back on 
the fire in a double boiler. Stir a little butter 
into it, and serve with bread fried in dice. 

8 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Clear Soup Stock 

To four pounds of beef add six quarts of cold 
water and place over the fire. Just before it 
boils, skim it careftdly. Then add two cups of 
cold water and skim again, repeating this for a 
third skimming. Allow it to simmer slowly for 
three hours. Then add the vegetables; eight 
otmces each of ciiVup carrots, onions and turnips, 
and three ounces of celery, with salt and pepper. 
Simmer three hours longer. The stock should be 
strained before using, and while cooking it 
should not be allowed to boil. 

Daniel Webster's Chowder 

Fry with some slices of pork, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sliced onions, to a light brown. Put them 
in a deep iron pot with six poimds of cod sliced, 
one quart of boiled mashed potatoes, one pound 
and a half of broken sea biscuit, fifty oysters, 
one teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of 
sununer savory, one-half a bottle of mushroom 

9 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

catsup, one bottle of port or claret, one-half a 
nutmeg, one dozen cloves, a little mace and all- 
spice, one half a lemon sliced, pepper and salt. 
Cover with one inch of water and cook slowly 
until done. 

Scott's Chowder 

Cover the bottom of a deep pot with slices of 
pork cut very thin. Add a layer of fish sliced 
and seasoned with salt and pepper, a layer of 
onions parboiled and quartered, a layer of toma- 
toes sliced and seasoned, a layer of thickly sliced 
potatoes and a layer of broken sea bisctiit. 
Repeat the layers until the pot is filled. Just 
cover the fish with water and cook one hour very 
slowly. Add one pint of claret, cook one-half 
hour longer and serve. 



10 



SOUPS AND CHOfFDERS 



Marblehead Chowder 

Cut half a potind of salt pork into dice and 
place two-thirds of it in a deep saucepan; fry 
a light brown. Remove it and in the fat fry 
two large onions sliced. Cover the bottom of 
the pot with slices of raw cod or bass 
mixed with some of the fried pork and onions. 
On this place another layer of sliced 
fish mixed with a few pieces of raw pork, 
and slices of raw onion, salt and pepper; over 
this a layer of sliced raw potatoes. Repeat 
these layers tmtil the pot is about two-thirds 
full, when the mixture should be covered with 
warm water, or preferably a stock made of the 
heads and tails of the fish. After the chowder 
comes to a boil, let it cook for forty-five minutes. 
Then add some broken sea biscuit, and boil 
fifteen minutes longer. In another saucepan 
place a quart of milk and heat it to the boiling 
point. Then stir into it two ounces of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter. When it 
thickens a little, pour it over the chowder and 
serve. 

11 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

The reci^^ ^11 take about teur pounds of 
fish, half a pound of pork, six onions, six po- 
tatoes, four sea biscuits, two ounces each of but- 
ter and flour and a quart of milk. 

Clam Chowder* I 

Have one hundred clams still in the shell. 
Boil them in a quart of water until the shells 
open. Take the clams out of the kettle, saving 
the water in which they were boiled. Remove 
them from the shells, discarding all but the soft 
part. Take six slices of salt pork and cut into 
dice. Fry until crisp and a light brown. Re- 
move from the saucepan and in the fat fry four 
onions sliced. Then add the water strained 
from the clams and the fried pork. To this add 
six potatoes cut in small pieces and two green 
peppers chopped or finely sliced. Boil the mix- 
ture fifteen minutes before putting in the clams 
and four sea biscuits, broken into pieces. Then 
boil for fifteen minutes longer and add a quart 

12 



SOUPS AND CHOfFDERS 



of milk. Have half ^ ctip of bread crumbs 
rubbed into four ounces of butter. Stir this in 
as the chowder heats after the milk has been 
added. When it boils, it is ready to serve. 

Clam Chowder II 
In a saucepan fry two slices of salt pork and 
when brown, add four potatoes and four onions 
cut up. Fry ten minutes and add three pints 
of water, salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. 
Then add one quart of clams from which the 
tough portions have been removed. Also two 
sea biscuits which have been soaked tmtilthey are 
soft. Cook ten minutes. For this recipe, 
canned clams may be used. 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 
Take the meat of a good sized crab, a turn- 
blerftd of shrimps and a clove of garUc. Chop 
all very fine and make into small force meat 
balls with a beaten ^gg. Fry them a light brown 
in butter, and serve in any fish chowder or soup. 

13 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



14 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Memo 



IS 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



16 



SOUPS JND CHOWDERS 



Memo 



17 



JOE TJLDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



18 



FISH 

Oysters a la Marechale 

Stew very gently in four ounces of butter 
some thinly sliced truffles and mushrooms. 
After cooking ten minutes add salt, white pep- 
per, cayenne and mace. Stir in four large 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well together 
while it thickens. Put in the liquor of the 
oysters which has been scalded and skimmed. 
Then add milk (boiling) enough to make it as 
thick as cream. Take from the fire and stir in 
the yolks of four eggs beaten well with the juice 
of a lime and a tablespoonftil of water. 

Cover each oyster thickly with some of the 
nuxture and allow it to cool. Then roll twice 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry to a 
light brown in butter and serve very hot. 

Toasted Angels 

Sprinkle cayenne and a few drops of lime 
juice over as many large oysters as are required, 
then wrap eacli oyster in a thin strip of bacon 

21 



JOE TILDElsrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

or fat salt pork. Fasten with a wooden tooth- 
pick and broil until the bacon is crisp. Serve 
very hot on squares of buttered toast. 

Oyster Pates 

Rub together one ounce of butter and one 
teaspoonful of fiotir. Melt this in a saucepan 
and add salt, mace and cayenne. Stir gently 
a few minutes, until smooth. Then add slowly 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Strain two dozen 
oysters and add the liquor very slowly, stirring 
all the time. When it boils up, put in the 
oysters, cook three minutes and fill the pat6 
shells. Serve very hot. 

Scalloped Clams 

Wash clean one hundred clams. Use soft 
part whole and the tough part chopped fine. 
Put a layer on the bottom of a buttered baking 

22 



FISH 

dish. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a 
little mace and sprinkle over plenty of stale 
bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Put 
plenty of butter on top and pour in a cup of the 
water from the clams. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour, and when half done pour in a 
tumbler of sherry. 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry- 
Melt four oxmces of butter and fry in it four 
yotmg onions and a clove of garlic chopped. 
Add the juice of two limes. Stir into this one 
teaspoonful of com starch, two tablespoonfuls 
of curry powder and half a cup of cream with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Stir this rapidly over the 
fire until very thick. Thin with milk until it is 
the proper consistency, then add a large cup of 
picked shrimps, and as many oysters. Cook 
two minutes after it boils. 



23 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 

Place two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan and brown over the fire. 
Stir into this one cup of stock, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped raw ham, a 
slice of onion, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Strain the same and add to it a cup of shrimps. 
Simmer again for a few moments and add a 
teaspoonful of tomato or mushroom catsup. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve in 
timbale cases. 

Shrimps with Tomato 

Stew half a dozen large tomatoes with a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a piece of butter, 
salt, pepper and cayenne. Put this through a 
sieve until it is very smooth. Fill a baking 
dish with picked shrimps, pour the tomato 
over them, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
bits of butter, and bake tmtil brown. 

24 



FISH 

Saute of Shrimps 

Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan with a 
little flour, salt and cayenne. Just as it turns 
dark, put in a glass of white wine, a pound of 
picked shrimps, a little lemon juice, and if 
liked, a bit of anchovy sauce. Take from the 
fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Pour into cup-shaped pieces of fried bread, and 
serve very hot. 

Crab a la Creole 

Fry in four oimces of butter, four young 
onions, one clove of garlic and two green pep- 
pers, all chopped fine. Cook until soft and add 
one tomato cut up, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Stew imtil smooth and add one teaspoonful of 
flour, a little cream or rich milk, and the meat 
picked from two crabs. Boil a few moments 
and serve with buttered toast. 



25 



JOE TlLDElSr RECIPES FOR EPICURES 
Sole a la Normandie 

Take a large sole (one without a roe). Re- 
move the back skin and with a sharp knife very 
carefully cut out the side fins, lay it on the dish 
in which it is to be served, one that may be 
placed in the oven. Brush the fish with melted 
butter. Insert in the flesh of the fish some 
small slices of truffle. Sprinkle it with salt, 
white pepper, a very little mace and dust it all 
over with fine crumbs. Pour arotind it a 
tumbler of good white wine. Place in a mod- 
erate oven and cook until nearly done, twenty 
minutes or longer, if the fish be large. Take it 
out and put around the edge of the dish a row of 
croutons, brushing them with the white of an 
egg to make them adhere to the dish. Then 
scatter over and around the fish, a small can of 
mushrooms, sHced, oysters, mussels, picked 
shrimps and some quenelles. Add a little more 
melted butter and a few more crumbs, add more 
white wine and put back in the oven for five 
minutes. 



26 



FISH 

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian 

Cut a sole or flotinder into four filets. Roll 
each one up, stuffing with a mixture of sal 
piquant sauce. Roll around each a thin slice 
of pork and fasten with a skewer. Stand on end 
in a baking pan and put a small piece of butter 
and a slice of lemon on each and bake tmtil 
done. 

Fry together for five minutes, chopped escha- 
lots, parsley, chevril, herbs, butter, salt and 
cayenne. Take from the fire and stir in a little 
lime juice and anchovy sauce. 

Baked Sole 

Skin the slack side of the fish arid lay in a 
baking pan. Brush with beaten ^%^, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and pour over them some 
melted butter. Cover the fish with a layer of 
thin slices of pork or bacon. Add one-half pint 
of water and bake half an hour. To make the 

27 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

sauce, take the liquor from the bakmg pan, add 
to it salt, pepper, cayenne, the juice of one lime, 
a wine glass of sherry, a tablespoonful of mush- 
room or walnut catsup, and a piece of butter 
the size of an egg with a little flour rubbed into 
it. Allow it to boil once and pour over the fish. 

if i^ 

Flounders a la Magouze 

Place several fish into a baking pan with a 
glass of white wine, salt, pepper, and an ounce 
of butter. While they are cooking break three 
eggs into half a pint of cream, and beat until it 
is light. When the fish is done remove them 
from the pan and stir the eggs and cream into 
the gravy. Simmer for two minutes, and pour 
over the fish, serving at once. 



28 



FISH 

Salmon a la Melville 

Put slices of salmon into a baking pan with a 
little white wine and water. Sprinkle with salt 
and bits of butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 

For a sauce, blanch some very finely chopped 
young onions. Put them in a saucepan with a 
wine glass of white wine, salt, cayenne, a cup of 
picked shrimps, a lemon cut in thin slices, and 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Then 
add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled 
in a very little flour. Remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce 
over the fish and serve. 

Stewed Haddock 

Lay pieces of fish in a pan with the skin side 
up. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and cover 
tightly, allowing the fish to stew in its juice for 
twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a 

29 



i 



JOE TILDElSrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

pound of butter rolled in flour, and a quarter 
of a glass of wine. Stir the liquor and simmer 
for a few moments, when it is ready to serve. 
No water should be used. 

Bacalas a la Viscaina 

Soak half a salt codfish over night. Put in a 
saucepan one-half cup of olive oil, and two large 
onions cut in bits. When browned add two 
large tomatoes cut up. Stew slowly fifteen 
minutes, adding a little black pepper. Put in 
the fish picked to pieces and cook slowly half 
an hour. Serve on a platter, with some fried 
whole green peppers on top. 

Baked Sardines 

Remove the skins from large boned sardines 
and heat in the oven on strips of toast. Make 
a sauce as follows: Pour the oil from the sar- 

30 



FISH 

dines into a saucepan and heat it well. Then 
stir in an ounce of flour, adding a small cup 
of hot water. Season this with a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, salt and paprika. 
Beat the yolk of an Qgg with a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and one of mustard. Stir this into the 
sauce after it is removed from the fire. Pour 
over the sardines and serve. 

Sardines with Cheese 

Drain the sardines and lay them on strips of 
toast or crisply fried bread. Cover thickly with 
Parmesan cheese and bake in a hot oven until 
light brown in color. Remove and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and pour over all plenty 
of lemon jtiice. Serve very hot. 



31 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Scalloped Fish Roc 

Boil three large roes in water with a very little 
vin^ar for ten minutes. Remove from the 
fire and plunge into cold water, wipe the roe 
dry and break into bits without crushing. 
Have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. 
Mash them into a cup of drawn butter with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy paste, the juice of half a lemon and a cup 
of bread crumbs. Mix very lightly with the 
broken fish roe. Place in a baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and 
brown in the oven. 

Kedgeree 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice and drain it as 
dry as possible. Have ready a cupftil of cooked 
fish of any sort broken into pieces. Mix it 
thoroughly with the rice and heat over the fire; 
season with salt and pepper. Beat an egg 
lightly and stir into it. Serve at once. 

32 



FISH 

Bouillabaise 

The fish used for bouillabaise may be any kind 
of firm white fish, and for the following recipe, 
about two pounds are required. Heat in a soup 
kettle four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fry 
in it two large onions sliced, and two cloves of 
garlic. Add the fish cut into bits and just 
cover the mixture with warm water. Then add 
salt, pepper, half of a bay leaf, two large to- 
matoes, peeled and chopped, the juice of half a 
lemon and one cup of white wine. Cook over a 
brisk fire twelve minutes, or tmtil the liquor is 
reduced one-third. Add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley and a pinch of saffron. Cook 
two minutes. Pour the bouillabaise over slices 
of French bread. 



33 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



34 



FISH 



Memo 



35 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



36 



• Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

Lay half a dozen sweetbreads in cold water 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil them five minutes, drop into 
cold water, remove the skin and lard with fat 
bacon. Put them in a saucepan with a pint of 
stock, two small onions and one carrot chopped, 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, and a little mace. Stew until tender. 

Serve with a mushroom sauce, made as follows : 
Take a small bottle of mushrooms or one dozen 
fresh mushrooms sliced and boil them five min- 
utes in water and lime jtdce. Drain and place 
in a stew pan with two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour and a pint of well seasoned stock 
or gravy. Cook until the sauce is reduced one- 
half. Pour over the hot sweetbreads. 



39 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Terrapin 

Boil the terrapin for one hour, and clean care- 
fully. Rub into a paste the yolks of six hard- 
boiled eggs, half the white of one egg chopped, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, three whole cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne 
and mace. Place the terrapin into a stewpan 
with a glass of sherry or madeira and the pre- 
pared paste. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. 
Add three glasses of sherry and madeira and 
allow it to boil once, when it is ready to serve. 

Frogs a la Poulette 

Joint the hind legs and backs of twelve frogs; 
put in a closely covered saucepan with some 
truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass 
of white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace 
and four ounces of butter. Stew gently fifteen 
minutes, stirring once or twice. If then tender, 
add one teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed into one 
ounce of butter. Let it cook two minutes, take 

40 



ENTREES 



from the fire and stir in the yolks of six eggs 
beaten well with one-half cup of cream. Place 
this mixture where it will keep hot without 
cooking. Cut the crust from a loaf of bread, 
scoop out the center, brush with butter and 
brown in the oven. Pour the frogs legs and 
sauce into the bread cup, garnish with mush- 
rooms and truffles. 

Calves' Head en Tortue 

Simmer a calves* head for two hours. Tie the 
brains in a cloth, put them in the saucepan with 
the head and cook two hours longer. Then ex- 
tract the bones and cut the meat in pieces, re- 
turn it to the saucepan without the brains, 
adding two otmces of butter, two dozen stoned 
olives, one dozen cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and a cup of white wine. Cook for one hour, 
then add the brains cut in bits, the shaved peel 
and piece of one lemon and three hard-boiled 
eggs sliced. Cook thirty minutes. Thicken 
the sauce with flour rubbed into butter and serve 
with the calves' head. 

41 



JOE TILDElSrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chops a la Reine 

Trim twelve lamb chc^-^rex^'^is&siAy and fry 
lightly in six ojisfies of butter. Remove them 
and in tibesame butter place two onions, sliced, 
fe>ur green peppers minced, one can of mush- 
rooms minced, and two stalks of celery chopped; 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the juice of a lime. 
Cook until these ingredients are soft. Stir in 
six ounces of flour. Then add two cups of 
nsilk and cook tmtil the mixture is thick and 
smooth. Dust a plate with cracker crumbs and 
on this place a spoonful of the fried mixture. 
Place a chop on top of this, cover it with an- 
other spoonful of the mixture and dust with 
cracker crumbs. Repeat with each chop, and 
when cold roll each in beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry a light brown. 



42 



ENTREES 



Calves' Feet a la Marechale 

Boil four calves' feet tintil tender. Cut into 
inch pieces and fry in four ounces of butter, with 
two onions, a little garlic, two green peppers and 
some mushrooms, chopped fine, seasoning all 
with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. 
Stir in four ounces of flour and add boiling milk, 
enough to make the trdxture as thick as rich 
cream. Put in the calves' feet and mix all well 
together. . Then remove from the fire and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs which have been mixed 
with the juice of a lime and a tablespoonful of 
water. Pour the whole into a buttered pan 
and set aside to cool. When cold cut into 
slices, brush with egg and bread crvunbs and fry 
in butter until a light brown. 



43 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 

Boil chestnuts in salted water for twenty min- 
utes. Shell them, season with salt and pepper, 
add a piece of butter and wet with ndlk. Mash 
through a colander and heap lightly on a plat- 
ter, arranging broiled chops around the puree. 

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode 

Trim carefully one dozen young lamb chops. 
Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of marrow, 
some chopped mushrooms and eschalots. Then 
add a glass of sherry and stir it well before 
adding also a cup of rice, four cups of stock, 
several sweet Chili peppers chopped and some 
salt. Cook for half an hour or until pasty. 
Pour it out in a pan to the thickness of half an 
inch and let cool. Then with a biscuit cutter, 
cut it into rounds about the size of a chop. On 
each one of these rounds place a chop and cover 
the top with Bechamel sauce. When cold dip 
in ^gg and bread crumbs and fry a light brown. 

44 



ENTREES 



A good recipe for the Bechamel sauce is the 
following: One otince of butter browned with 
one ounce of flour. To this add half a glass of 
sherry, some finely chopped truffles, one cup 
and a half of stock, salt and pepper, and cook 
for ten minutes. Add the juice of a lime, take 
from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs. 

Devil Chops 

Make a dressing of the following ingredients 
mixed together: One ounce of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of French mustard, one teaspoonful of grated 
horseradish, one teaspoonful of chutney, a 
little Chili vinegar, the juice of one lime, salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Rub this on the chops 
and broil rare. Serve the remaining sauce over 
them in a very hot dish. 



45 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 

Fry one dozen lamb chops in butter and set 
aside to cool. Put in a stew pan two ounces of 
butter with half a can of mushrooms, one small 
onion and a teaspoonful of parsley, all minced 
fine; salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace. 
Cook this gently for ten minutes and add a cup 
of milk thickened with flour and butter, the 
juice of a lemon and one teaspoonftil of sugar. 
Cook a few minutes. Take from the fire and 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Cover 
the chops with this and set aside to cool. Brush 
them with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and fry in 
butter to a light brown. Serve with green peas 
in the center of the dish. 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 

Lard lamb cutlets with strips of truffle, an- 
chovy and gherkin. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, mushrooms, capers, chives, a little 

46 



ENTREES 



shallot all chopped very fine, pepper, salt and 
butter. Put this on each side of the cutlets 
and cover with crepinette. Broil or fry to a 
light brown and dust over with very fine browned 
bread crumbs. Serve with a browned veal 
gravy and sliced lemon. 

Eggs with Tomatoes 

Pry in two ounces of butter two small dry 
onions and two green peppers, chopped. Add 
half a dozen tomatoes peeled and cut up, salt 
and pepper. Simmer fifteen minutes. Add 
the com cut from half a dozen ears, and cook 
fifteen minutes longer. Pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, and break over it six eggs. 
Place in the oven until set. 

Macaroni a la Rossini 

Cook a pint or less of macaroni in well salted 
water; drain and put into a stew pan, with a 
little good gravy. Simmer very slowly until the 

47 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

gravy is all absorbed, shaking the pan occa- 
sionally. Put a layer of the macaroni in a 
baking dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and sliced tniffles mixed with a little 
good sauce espagnole. Fill the dish and on the 
top layer put truffles. Place in the oven a few 
minutes and serve with grated Parmesan cheese 
on a separate dish. 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve 

Persons 

Boil one-half pound of macaroni in water for 
five minutes. Cut in inch length pieces and 
simmer for twenty ndnutes in one quart of milk, 
being careful that it does not boil. Season with 
salt, pepper, mace and cayenne. Add one cup 
of cream, stir until very smooth, add the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs and one can of mushrooms 
sliced. Stir well and then add the macaroni 
with one poimd of sweetbreads, cut in small 
pieces and two dozen Eastern oysters. Let 
this cool, then cover with pastry and bake in 
the oven until brown. 

48 



ENTREES 



Memo 



49 



KEN 

;ame 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



52 



CHICKEN 
AND GAME 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Chicken Portuguese 

Truss two young chickens as though for 
roasting. Lay on the bottom of a large stew pan 
the rind of a piece of pork, and on this, place the 
chicken. Add four ounces of butter, a head of 
celery chopped, two onions sliced, three small 
carrots sliced, two Chili peppers cut up, and the 
halves of two bell peppers from which the seeds 
have been removed. Season with salt, cayenne, 
thyme and a few sweet herbs. Cover and cook 
quickly for forty minutes, moistening from time 
to time with a spoonful of stock or gravy. Then 
add two large tomatoes sliced, and cook twenty 
minutes longer. Serve the chicken with the 
sauce potired over it. 

Chicken with Oysters 

Stuff a young chicken with oyster and a few 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. Truss the fowl, place it in a tin pail 

55 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

with a tight cover. ^ Stand the pail in a kettle 
of boiling water and leave on the fire one hour 
and a half. Remove the chicken and place in a 
dish. Pour the gravy into a saucepan, adding 
two dozen oysters, two hard boiled eggs chopped, 
a wine glass of cream and one oimce of butter, 
into which has been rubbed a teaspoonful of 
com starch. Boil for a few moments and pour 
over the chicken. 

This is an excellent way to cook a young 
turkey. 

Casuela 

Cut a chicken into small pieces and fry it with 
a clove of garlic in a large tablespoonful of lard, 
for ten minutes. Then add one quart of water, 
half a cupftd each of green peas, string beans 
and grains of com, and boil one and one-half 
hours. Add three potatoes cut into bits, one 
tablespoonftd of rice, salt, pepper and the white 
of one egg. Boil for three-quarters of an hour 

56 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



longer, then remove from the fire. In a tureen 
mix one mashed potato with the yolk of the egg 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Strain the 
broth slowly into this and mix thoroughly be- 
fore adding the chicken and other ingredients. 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 

Cut up a chicken, and season with salt, pep- 
per and a little mace. Dip the pieces into 
beaten egg, then roll in flour and fry in lard and 
butter until brown. Take out the chicken and 
in the pan put a large piece of butter with a 
little flour. As soon as it froths up stir in milk 
until thick. Let it boil a minute and pour over 
the chicken. 

Chicken with Rice 

Cut up a chicken and stew gently for ten 
minutes in a little water. Add two ounces of 
butter, salt, pepper, mace and a green pepper, 
chopped very fine, stew until done. 

57 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Make a form of boiled rice around a dish and 
lay the chicken in the middle of it. Add to the 
sauce a good piece of butter with a teaspoonful 
of flour rubbed into it and boil two minutes. 
Take from the fire and stir in the yolk of three 
eggs, beaten with a half cup of rich cream. Pour 
over the chicken and serve. 

Chicken with Spaghetti 

Prepare the spaghetti by boiling about three 
pounds in salted water for twenty minutes. 

Stew a chicken in water until tender and pick 
it to pieces, adding enough of the gravy to make 
a quart. Into this put four sliced onions that 
have been fried in two ounces of butter, and one 
quart of tomatoes. Stew for fifteen minutes. 
Place a layer of spaghetti on a platter and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over 
some of the chicken sauce and repeat the layers, 
putting the best of the chicken on top. 



58 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Quail with Celery 

Cut six quail in halves and cover them with 
water in a stewpan, adding strips of salt pork, 
some finely chopped celery, salt and pepper. 
Cook xmtil done. Remove the birds and strain 
the liquor; add to it, two ounces of flour rubbed 
into two ounces of butter, the remainder of the 
head of celery grated, and two cups of milk. 
When it thickens pour over the birds and serve 
very hot. 

Pheasant a la Savarin 

Place on the bottom of a roasting pan two 
slices of bread cut two inches thick. Spread 
over this the pounded liver and heart of the bird 
with an anchovy, a bit of ham and two tniffles 
ntiinced. On this lay the pheasant and roast 
until done. Serve on the cooked bread. 

Nothing but the finest Burgimdy should be 
served with this. 

59 



JOE TILDEN*S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Quail and Onion 

To each quail allow one good sized onion, 
sliced, and half a glass each of oil and vinegar. 
Stew in a covered pot until the birds are tender. 
Season with salt and pepper, and serve with any 
good sauce. 



Salmi of Duck with Olives 

Roast for eight minutes two sprig tail ducks, 
take out and cut the meat from the bones. 
Break up the bones. Cover with water in a 
saucepan and cook with a dozen cloves, one 
onion and some chopped celery, to make a 
gravy. When done strain it ofiE. To this gravy 
add the meat, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, 
cayenne, one-half head of celery, cut in strips, 
one teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen 
stoned olives. Cook gently ten minutes, stirring 
it well until smooth. Add a piece of butter 
rolled in brown flour. Stew five minutes and 
serve very hot. 

60 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Stewed Squabs 

Make a stufiKng of the livers and hearts of six 
birds chopped fine, with a little butter, chopped 
pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne and a 
little lemon. Stuff the squabs with the above. 
Put them in a stew pan and cover with stock 
and stew one-half hour. Take out the birds, 
add salt, cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, one tablespoonftd Worcestershire 
sauce, one tablespoonful of lime juice, a large 
glass of port or sherry, and two ounces of butter, 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls of browned 
flour. 

Return the birds to the sauce for ten minutes. 
Fry some thick slices of bread, place a bird. on 
each and pour the sauce over them. 



61 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



62 



CHICKEN AND GJME 



Memo 



63 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



64 



MEATS 



Yorkshire Steaks 
Fry in butter several small tenderloin steaks, 
with two onions sliced and one cucumber sliced. 
When well browned add a pint of stock, salt, 
pepper and cayenne and one teaspoonful of 
made mustard. Simmer an hour or longer. 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 
Braise a larded filet of beef with what vege- 
tables are in season. Put in a saucepan and 
moisten while cooking with a bottle of good 
claret or sherry. When done garnish the meat 
with macaroni prepared as follows: Boil one- 
half potmd of macaroni, cut into three-inch 
lengths and put in a saucepan with some sliced 
mushrooms, one-half pint of good stock, three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat 
of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Toss 
over the fire tmtil well mixed and serve around 
the beef. Strain the vegetables out of the gravy 
and pour over the beef. 

67 



JOE TILD EtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Yorkshire Pudding 

This is to be served with roast beef, and it 
should be baked in the pan of drippings in which 
the beef has cooked. Mix a cup of flour with a 
cup of milk, salt and one egg beaten. Bake 
quickly and serve at once. 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed 

Cut the remains of a cold roast into pieces, 
flour the pieces and fry in butter until brown. 
Then put them into a saucepan with a cup of 
stock, a glass of port, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Simmer five minutes and add one tablespoonful 
of lime juice before serving. 

Lobscouse 

Soak four thick slices of corned beef in fresh 
water for two hours. Fry four slices of salt pork 
or bacon. In the fat fry four sliced onions a 

68 



MEATS 



light brown. Place in a stewpan the beef, 
onions and pork or bacon. Add a dozen sliced 
potatoes, cover with water and season highly 
with pepper. Cover and stew gently until the 
meat is tender. Then break into the stewpan 
four sea biscuits, cook for five minutes longer. 
The liquor may be thickened a little more with 
a tablespoonftd of flour mixed with a little cold 
water. 

Perchero 

Place five pounds of beef in a large pot half 
filled with water. Boil for three hours, having 
seasoned well with salt and pepper. Then add 
a large piece of pumpkin cut in pieces, a pint of 
string beans, a cup of com, a large onion sliced, 
a carrot and a turnip diced, and a bell pepper 
minced. Simmer for half an hour. Then add 
half a cup of rice and one teaspoonfulof saffron. 
Cook for half an hour longer. In another sauce- 
pan boil a cabbage, and in a third pan stew some 

69 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

peeled apples and bananas cut up. Put the 
meat in the center of a platter and place the 
mixed fruits and vegetables arotmd it. 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 

Place in a saucepan three onions sliced, a 
carrot and a potato diced; salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of lime juice or vinegar, with thin 
slices of cold meat. Cover closely and sinmier 
for one hour, add half a cup of cold water and 
simmer one hour longer. Season with a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire and thicken the 
gravy with an ounce of flour rubbed into butter. 

Lamb with Macaroni 

Cover the bottom of a baking pan with slices 
of bacon. Place on them a breast of young 
lamb and cover it with slices of bacon and thin 
slices of a peeled lemon. Season with salt and 

70 



MEATS 



pepper, add a small onion minced and a cup of 
stock. Cover and bake slowly for two hours. 
Boil half. a. cup of macaroni in gravy to 
which a few pested tomatoes may be added. 
When tender, place it cm. a serving dish, lay 
the lamb on it and pour cyvrer all the gravy 
which may be thickened with a Hyj^ flour. 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 

Soak a fresh tongue in cold water for one hour, 
then boil it three hours and remove the skin. 
Place the tongue in a stewpan with half a head 
of celery, one ttimip, one carrot and two onions 
cut in small pieces, one dozen cloves, salt and 
cayenne. Simmer for one and one-half hours. 
Take out the tongue and add to the gravy one 
tablespoonful of made mustard, one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, three tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, three pickeled gherkins chopped, 
one glass of port or red wine, and two ounces 
of butter, creamed with three ounces of browned 
flour. Cook until smooth. Return the tongue 
to the sauce and sinmier half an hour. 

71 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Pork Pie 

Cut into small pieces enough pork to fill a 
baking dish. Season it with salt, pepper and 
mace. Use no water. Cover the meat with a 
thick pastry crust and bake in a slow oven for 
two hours. Make a gravy of the bones and 
scraps of the pork, well seasoned, and pour into 
the pie after it is baked. 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 

Dress a pig of ten weeks old as if to roast. 
Make a stuffing of the liver, two anchovies, and 
sage leaves all chopped small; bread crumbs, 
four ounces of butter, salt, cayenne and a half 
pint of red wine. Stuff and sew the pig up. 
Roast at an open fire. Put in the dripping pan 
three bottles or more of red wine. Baste the 
pig frequently and when almost done put in the 
pan close to the fire two loaves of bread. Stand 
the pig in the dish for serving and put a lemon in 
his mouth. Place one of the loaves of bread 

72 



MEATS 



on each side; to the gravy in the pan add one 
anchovy, one-half lemon and a few sweet herbs, 
all chopped fine. Boil it a few minutes and 
pour over the pig. Lay slices of lemon and 
barberries roimd the dish. 

To Boil a Ham 

Soak a ham for one hour and clean with a 
brush. Put it in a kettle with plenty of cold 
water and after it boils cook seven hours, skim 
well and always replenish with boiling water. 
After it has boiled three hours add half a hand- 
fid of whole cloves and at the end of five hours 
add one and a half pints of vinegar. After 
boiling, skin the ham, sprinkle it with crumbs, 
stick with cloves and roast in a moderate oven, 
thirty minutes, basting with a liquor of half 
vinegar and half water. 



73 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

SB^SSSSBSSSSSBSBSSSS5SSSSSSSBSBSSBBpiS3BSBB8SBB8BSSBBB3SBBSSS 

Mexican Tripe 

Dip a thick honey comb piece of tripe in 
butter, then in crumbs, and broil over a clear fire 
until well done, sprinkling over it whilst cooking 
three or four finely chopped green Chilis. Melt 
in a hot soup plate one ounce of butter, adding 
salt, pepper and cayenne, and one teaspoonful 
of made mustard, rub smooth and add one-half 
teaspoonful of vinegar, one tabkspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and the jtiice of one small 
lime. Lay the tripe in this sauce as soon as it is 
removed from the fire. Serve with buttered 
toast. An excellent prelude to this dish is 
a plate of onion soup. 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 

Fry a crisp brown, twelve slices of bacon. 
Remove the bacon from the frying pan, leaving 
some of the fat. Into this stir two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and a cup of n:iilk; a small onion 

74 



MEATS 



minced and a dash of pepper. Cook until it is 
smooth. Have six slices of toast ready. On 
each, place two slices of the fried bacon and on 
each a slice of raw tomato. Pour the sauce over 
the toast and bacon and tomato, and serve 
very hot. 



75 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



76 



MEATS 



Memo 



77 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



78 



MEATS 



Memo 



79 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



80 



SAUCES 



Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 

Melt together in a hot soup plate one ounce 
of butter, and an equal amount of currant jelly. 
Add the jtiice of a lime, a glass of sherry and a 
small cupfid of finely chopped celery. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 

Take one shallot chopped, salt, cayenne, 
mace, a glass of port or claret, one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonftd of 
mushroom catsup, the rind of one-half lime and 
one tablespoonful of lime jtiice. Boil these in- 
gredients for five minutes. Strain the liquor 
and add to any gravy. 



83 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

HoUandaise Sauce 

Heat a bowl with boiling water, and wipe dry. 
In it beat quarter of a cup of butter to a cream. 
Add the yolks of two raw eggs, one at a time, 
beating until smooth. Then add a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, salt and cayenne, and beat 
the CMxture with a fork or an egg beater, for 
five minutes. Place the bowl in boiling water. 
Stir into the sauce two tablespoonf uls of boiling 
water, and beat until the sauce is smooth and 
thick as mayonnaise. 

Parsley Butter 

Beat three tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Add half a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 
of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonftd of salt. 
Beat all together several minutes, when it is 
ready for use. An excellent dressing for fried 
or broiled fish. 



84 



SAUCES 



Green Sauce 

Mix in a bowl a tablespoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, with one table- 
spoonftd of Tarragon vinegar and one of cider 
vinegar. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Egg Sauce 

Beat two ounces of butter to a froth. Mix 
into it one tablespoonful of flour and the yolk 
of one egg. Pour a cup of hot water of this 
batter, stirring constantly. Heat over the fire 
until it is thick and smooth, but be careful not 
to boil. Just before serving stir in two hard 
boiled eggs finely chopped. 

Celery Sauce 

Put in a stewpan with salt, cayenne and a 
blade of mace, three grated heads of celery. 
Cover with boiling water. Boil ten minutes 

85 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

and drain. Return to the fire with enough veal 
stock to cover the celery and stew half an hour. 
Then add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, 
and half a cup of cream. Shake over the fire a 
minute or two and serve at once. 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl 

Put in a saucepan half a teacupful of soup 
stock, three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of made mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of French ijaustard, two cloves of 
garlic chopped fine, one onion chopped, two 
green peppers and one pickeled gherkin chopped, 
one tonMtto peeled and cut up, the juice of half 
a lime and half a Ume cut in thin slices. Sim- 
mer for one hour, then add the following: One 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of 
Imperial sauce, one of Tarragon vinegar, two 
of Bon Gout sauce, two of mushroom catsup, 
two of walnut catsup and two tablespoonftds of 
chtitney, add half a pint of sherry and simmer 
for fifteen minutes. 

This will keep several months. 

86 



SAUCES 



Onion Sauce 

Boil three good sized onions, one hour. Drain 
and put in a stewpan with one-half pint of milk 
smd one teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then rub through a sieve and put back 
in the pan with one-half pint of cream and one 
ounce of butter. 

Simmer ten minutes and serve very hot. 

Garlic Sauce 

Rub together in a mortar until smooth, two 
ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Add a tablespoonful of 
lime juice and one-half a pint of melted butter. 
Beat until light and smooth, when it is ready 
to serve. 



87 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Melted Butter 

Take one pint of milk and one teaspoonful 
of salt; when it boils stir into it three ounces of 
butter, a little cayenne and two tablespoonfuls 
of fiotir rubbed into it. Let it boil one minute 
and serve at once. 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 

Put in a double saucepan the yolks, of three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, pepper, cayenne, 
and one tablespoonful of dry mustard. Mix 
well and sift in two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four 
of water. Stir tmtil quite smooth. Place over 
the fire, stirring continually one way. As soon 
as it thickens remove from the fire and beat in 
three ounces of butter. Use when cool. 



88 



SAUCES 



Memo 



89 



JOE TILDEhTS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

SSISSBSSSSSSaSSSS^SBSSSSSSSSSSSSSaSSS^SSBSS^SSBBBBa 



Memo 



90 



SAUCES 



Memo 



91 



JOE TtLDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



92 



VEGETABLES 



Asparagus aux Milanaise 

Boil large choice asparagus until tender. 
Put a layer of stalks upon the dish on which 
they are to be served. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and a little grated Parmesan 
cheese. Make three layers of this and pour 
over all a little melted butter. Break on top a 
fresh egg for each person, and put in the oven 
tuitil set. Serve very hot. To be served in- 
dividually, six stalks may be placed on each 
dish, covered with cheese, and an egg broken 
over them. Serve after placing in the oven a 
few moments. 

Corn au Gratin 

Score down twelve ears of boiled com, and 
with the back of a knife press out the kernels. 
Put them into a baking dish with a large piece 
of butter, salt, pepper, a finely chopped green 
pepper and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
or Gruyere cheese. Place in a hot oven until 
just browned and serve immediately. 

95 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Chonfleur au Gratin 

Boil a large cauliflower twenty minutes in 
salted water. When tender drain and put on 
the dish on which it is to be served. Make a 
sauce of two o\mces of butter, one ounce of flour 
and half a pint of milk, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne. Mix this 
well, putting in the cheese last. Pour it over 
the cauliflower and sprinkle more cheese over 
the top. Set in a hot oven until browned and 
serve at once. 

Okra 

Cut the stems off of young okra pods and boil 
in water until the seeds turn red, which should 
be in half an hour. Drain and toss in a pan 
with butter, salt, pepper and cayenne. 



96 



VEGETABLES 

Potato Cream 

Boil six medium-sized, mealy potatoes and 
when soft press them through a sieve until light 
and floury. Then beat into them the raw 
yolks of six eggs and a little milk and butter. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with 
finely chopped chevril and thyme, and fine dice 
of fried bread before serving. 

if ^ 

Sweet Potatoes- 

Take six good sized sweet potatoes and boil 
tmtil nearly done. Then peel them and roll in 
melted butter, lay in a buttered baking pan. 
Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake until done. 

Chili Beans 

V 

Take four cups of red beans, one onion, four 
cloves of garlic, cover with water and cook all 
day in a covered saucepan. Add a little water 

97 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

from time to time if too dry. Cook slowly four 
red peppers and five black peppers with seeds 
out, three black peppers with seeds, four cloves 
of garlic, four onions with the hearts taken out, 
salt, and one cup of beef stock. Rub through 
a sieve. Put in a saucepan four tablespoonfuls 
of marrow. When very hot add the beans and 
then the sauce. 

To Boil Rice 

Have plenty of salted water, with the juice 
of a lime in it. When boiling add rice that has 
been washed in three waters. Boil fast for 
sixteen minutes. Try a grain, and if done dash 
in a glass of cold water. Drain at once through 
a colander. Cover with a cloth and let stand 
by the fire for a few minutes, shaking up the 
colander once or twice. This will make every 
grain separate. 



98 



VEGETABLES 

Risotto 

Fty two chopped onions in butter until light 
brown in color. Add one cup of raw rice and 
cover with beef stock. As the rice absorbs the 
stock add more until done. Then add two large 
tomatoes stewed with a little sugar and highly- 
seasoned. Place on the dish for serving and 
grate Parmesan cheese over it. 



99 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



100 



VEGETABLES 



Memo 



101 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



102 



SALADS 



Club Salad 

Boil separately two carrots, two turnips, and 
four potatoes. When cold, cut the vegetables 
into dice and mix them together, adding three 
apples peeled and cut into small bits. Toss in a 
large salad bowl with several olives for garnish. 
Bits of celery or cold cauliflower may be added. 
Pour over all a mayonnaise, or if preferred, a 
French dressing. Another dressing that is 
excellent with this salad is one made of the 
yolks of four raw eggs beaten into half a glass of 
rich cream which may be either sweet or sour. 
To this add one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
mustard and a wineglassful of vinegar, blending 
carefully. 

Winter Salad 

Cut the white stalks of a head of celery into 
small bits. Mix with two boiled potatoes cut 
in dice, two or three boiled beets cut in dice, a 
large white onion boiled and cut up, some 

105 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

chopped truffles, anchovies and stoned olives, 
a tablespoonful or more of each. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 

Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad 

Make a paste of two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, two ounces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, the yolk of one ^%%, salt and cayenne. Roll 
out the paste until about one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Cut into very narrow strips and place 
on a buttered tin. Bake ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 



106 



SALADS 



Memo 



107 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



108 



D ESS ERTS 
AND CAKES 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Mince Meat 

Measure carefully and mix together the fol- 
lowing ingredients: Two pounds of roast beef 
finely chopped, two pounds of chopped beef 
suet, two pounds of chopped peeled apples, two 
potinds of seeded raisins, two pounds Sultana 
raisins, two pounds of washed currants, two 
pounds of white sugar, one pound of citron cut 
in bits, one pound of dried orange peel, two 
nutmegs grated, three teaspoonfuls of ground 
mace, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
three teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind and juice of 
two oranges, one quart of brandy, one quart of 
sherry and one glass of blackberry jelly. After 
mixing thoroughly place the mince meat in a 
stone jar and use it from this. 

Hot Zabajone 
Beat well together the yolks of six eggs, and 
half a cup of sugar. Heat in a double saucepan, 
being careful to stir only one way. Place in a 

111 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

strainer the shaved peel of three oranges. 
Through this pour slowly into the eggs a quart 
of champagne (white wine may be substituted) , 
and allow the mixture to thicken. Serve hot 
in champagne glasses. 

Frozen Zabajone 

Mix the same as for hot zabajone, adding 
another half cup of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of orange juice. When it is cold half freeze in 
a freezer. Then remove and place in paper 
cases or motdds, on the ice. 

Genoise Pastry 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter and half a 
cup of sugar. Break into the cream three eggs, 
one at a time, and mix until smooth. Stir in 
half a cup of flour. Pour out on a buttered tin 
and bake ten or fifteen minutes. When cold 

112 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



spread thickly with apricot jam and cover with 
chocolate icing. Set in the oven a few moments, 
then put aside to cool. Cut into odd shapes 
before serving. 

Omelette Souffle 

Beat to a cream the yolks of six eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Place in a frjdng pan over the fire 
four ounces of butter. When it is melted mix the 
yolks and whites together and stir quickly into 
the pan. As soon as the eggs have absorbed 
the butter, pour them into a buttered baking 
dish and set in a hot oven for six or seven min- 
utes. Serve at once. 

Marmalade Pudding 

Cream half a cup of sugar and two teaspoon- 
fuls of butter. Beat into this the yolks of four 
eggs and one cup of cream or milk. Add a cup 

113 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

of fine bread crumbs and the beaten whites of 
the eggs; then a cup of orange marmalade, or 
some other fruit marmalade. Pour into a but- 
tered mould and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Turn out of the mould and serve with 
a brandy sauce, or cream. ' 

Amherst Pudding 

Line a baking dish with thinly rolled pie crust 
or puff paste. Fill with the following mixture. 
A small cup of butter creamed with two cups of 
sugar and beaten up with four or five eggs, a 
cupful of finely chopped apple added, with the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon and a little 
water. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake for 
half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Brown Betty 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with bread 
crumbs, over which place a layer of thinly sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and 

114 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



small pieces of butter, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
then cover with bread crumbs and repeat the 
layers tmtil the dish is filled, having a layer of 
crumbs sprinkled with bits of butter on top. 
Then pour over all three-quarters of a cup 
of molasses thinned with a little hot water. 
Bake until the apples are tender and the top is 
well browned. 

Chocolate Pudding 

Grate one-half a pound of Baker's chocolate, 
and melt it in half a pint of hot milk. Stir into 
the milk also half a cup of bread crumbs, one cup 
of powdered sugar and the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Wet a melon mould in cold water and 
pour the mixture into it. Boil three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve with cream, or the following 
sauce: Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. 
Heat a cup of wine and a cup of sugar until the 
sugar is melted. Remove from the fire and stir 
in the eggs quickly. 

115 



JOE TILDElSrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 

Butter thickly some slices of bread and lay in 
a baking dish. Cover them with thick black 
molasses and bake slowly. The pudding should 
be served hot, with thick cream. 

Baked Bananas 

Put into a bowl three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, six of sugar, and three of wine. Set the 
bowl in hot water to melt the butter. Peel 
the fruit and lay it in a baking pan. Pour 
over it the mixture in the bowl, and bake half 
an hour, basting several times. 

Hermits 

Cream two cups of sugar and one cup of 
butter. Add three well beaten eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Sift into this six cups 

116 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



of flour and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg and clove. Add last a cup of chopped 
raisins. Roll the dough out about one-quarter 
of an inch thick, cut into small squares and 
bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. 



Lady Baltimore Cake 

Cream one pound of sugar and half a pound 
of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of eight 
eggs separately, and add the beaten yolks to 
the butter and sugar. Stir in half a pint of 
milk and one pound of flour with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and bake in three layers. 
For the filling, boil three cups of powdered 
sugar and three-quarters of a cup of water for 
five minutes. Beat four eggs, the yolks and 
whites together, and into them stir the boiling 
syrup, add two cups of chopped raisins and 
two cups of almonds, chopped and blanched. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread thickly between 
the layers of cake. Cover with white frosting. 

117 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

Silver Cake 

Beat lightly the whites of eight eggs. Cream 
two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter. 
Stir into the eggs, adding three-fourths of a 
cup of milk. Sift into the batter three cups 
of flour and one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Gold Cake 

Cream a cup of sugar and three-fourths of a 
cup of butter. Mix into this the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs and half a cup of milk. Last add 
one and a half cups of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in a long 
bread tin. 

Fig Filling for Cake 

Chop together one pound of dried figs and 
one cup of seeded raisins. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon and sugar to taste. 

118 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Pour over the mixture a cup of water and heat 
thoroughly, mixing it over the fire. Spread 
between layers of white cake. 

Thin Gingerbread 

Place in a saucepan one pint of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and let them boil 
together for a moment. Then remove from 
the fire, *^and when nearly cool stir in flour 
enough to make a thick batter or dough. 
Spread thinly on tins and bake quickly. 



119 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



120 



DESSERTS AND CAKES 



Memo 



121 



JOE TILDEirS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



122 



WINE CUPS 
and PUNCHES 



r 
I 

4 

[ 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup I 

Pour on a sliced cucumber one pint of sherry 
and one-half pint of brandy. Grate the rind 
of two lemons over a little sugar. Add it to 
the mixture with the jtiice of one lemon and 
the juice of three oranges, half a pint of 
Curacao, two bottles of seltzer, three bottles 
of apoUinaris and three bottles of cham- 
pagne. Sweeten to taste and ice well. 

Champagne Cup II 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the jtiice and shaved peel of a lemon, a few 
slices of cucumbers, one wine glass of Curacao, 
one quart of apoUinaris and one quart of 
champagne. Pour over a block of ice in a 
punch bowl. 



125 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Champagne Cup III 

Rub three ounces of sugar on lemon peel and 
put in a punch bowl with the juice of four 
lemons, one quart of apoUinaris, and one 
quart of orgeat. Beat this well. Then add 
one pint of brandy, half a glass of Jamaica 
rum and a glass of Maraschino. Strain into a 
bowl of ice and just before serving, pour in 
three quarts of champagne. 

Champagne Cup IV 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar rubbed on the 
peel of a lemon and mixed with the juice of 
half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, one 
wine glass each of Maraschino and brandy 
and a quart each of apoUinaris and champagne. 
Ice well. 



126 



JVINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup V 

Rub two ounces of sugar over the peel of an 
orange. Mix with it the juice of an orange, 
two wine glasses of sherry, one wine glass of 
Maraschino, and a quart each of apollinarisand 
champagne. Add a few slices of cucumber 
and plenty of ice. 

Hock Cup 

Pour over a block of ice in a punch bowl, a 
wine glass of Maraschino, two quarts of apol- 
linaris, two quarts of sparkling hock and the 
juice of two lemons. Sweeten with two 
ounces of sugar. 

Badminton Claret Cup 

Rub six lumps of sugar on a lemon, strain 
the juice of the lemon over the sugar and add 
a glass of good sherry, two sprigs of verbena, 

127 



JOE TILDEtrS RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



a few slices of cucumber and a quart of claret. 
Place in the bowl a large piece of ice, and when 
ready to serve add a quart of sparkling mineral 
water. 

Moselle Cup 

Place the following ingredients in a punch 
bowl, with a block of ice, two otmces of sugar, 
the shaved peel of half an orange, three peaches 
sliced, a small pineapple sliced, half a dozen 
apricots, a wine glass of sherry, a quart of 
sparkling Moselle and a quart of apollinaris. 

Sauterne Cup 

Pour in a punch bowl, with ice, a quart each 
of sauterne, apollinaris and champagne, a wine 
glass of Chartreuse and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. 



128 



!S 



i 






of 



friNE CUPS AND PUNCHES 



Champagne Punch 



ral In a bowl place one sliced orange, one lime 

sliced very thin, and the juice of another lime, 
one-fourth of a pineapple sliced, and one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar. Let stand twelve 
hours. Put a large block of ice in a punch 
bowl, add the above ingredients with a wine 

^ - glass of Maraschino, two tumblers of sauteme, 

jf^ a wine glass of raspberry syrup, and last of all, 

one quart of champagne, a few whole straw- 
berries and a claret glass of Benedictine may 

^[ also be added. 

''T'' Punch 

Slice a whole pineapple and three lemons, 
^ and place in a pimch bowl with the juice only 

of nine other lemons, add two pounds of sugar, 
and let these ingredients stand several hours. 
Then add one quart each of green tea, Jamaica 
rum, brandy, claret, a pint of Curacao, and 

129 



JOE TILDEN'S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 

allow it to stand another hour. Then place 

in the punch bowl with a large block of ice, ? 

and pour in six quarts of champagne. ! 

New York Club Punch 

Take two pounds of lump sugar and squeeze 
over it the juice of one dozen lemons, using a 
little of the grated rind. Let this stand three 
hours, then strain the syrup through two thick- 
nesses of flannel and set away on ice. Just 
before serving add one quart each of brandy, 
Jamaica rum, Madeira and water. 

Milk Punch 

Take the juice and shaved peel of two dozen 
lemons, mix with five quarts of water,* three 
pounds of loaf sugar and six quarts of rum. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add two 
quarts of boiling milk and allow the mixture 
to stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
twice through a cloth. 

130 



WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 



Apple Toddy I 

Bake slowly two dozen cored apples until 

done. Place in a large stone jar with eight 

pounds of sugar. Pour over them four gallons 

of boiling water and let stand for forty-eight 

J hours. Then remove the apples and crush 

I them after taking off the skins. Return the 

{ fine pulp to the jar, and add one gallon of 

(. whiskey, one gallon of brandy, one gallon of 

^ peach brandy and three pints of Jamaica rum. 

t The toddy should stand in the covered jar for 

a week before teing used. 

Apple Toddy II 

gj Prepare six cored apples by sticking a dozen 

^ cloves in each and baking slowly until soft. 

Put them in a stone jar and pour over them a 
toddy made of two quarts of whiskey, one 
quart of brandy, one pint of rum and three 
cups of water, sweeten to taste and cover 
closely, allowing the mixture to blend for a 
week before using. 

131 



in 



JOE TILDES' S RECIPES FOR EPICURES 



Memo 



132 



INDEX 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



Page 



Onion Soiu> 3 

Palestine Soup III."IIII"II 3 

Black Bean S^up III..IIII 4 

Parker House Tomato Soup I.III.IIII 5 

Celery Soup 6 

Bisque of Frowns or Shrimps 6 

Lobster Soup _ 6 

Venison Soup.. 7 

Puree of Venison ._ " f. 8 

Clear Soup Stock 9 

Daniel Webster's Chowder _ 9 

Scott's Chowder 10 

Marblehead Chowder 11 

Clam Chowder I 12 

Clam Chowder II ^.. 13 

Force Meat Balls for Chowder 13 



FISH 



Oysters a la Marechale 21 

Toasted Angels 21 

Oyster Pates 22 

Scalloped Clams 22 

Shrimp or Oyster Curry 23 

Shrimps a la Bordelaise 24 

Shrimps with Tomato 24 

Saute of Shrimps 25 

Crab aia Creole 26 

Sole alaNormandie 26 

.- 27 

. 27 

.. 28 

. 29 

. 29 

.. 30 

- 30 



Filet of Sole a la Bohemian 

Baked Sole 

Flounders a la Magouse 

Salmon a la Meivule 

Stewed Haddock 

Baoalas a la Viscaina 

Baked Sardines 

Sardines with Cheese 31 

Scalloped Fish Roe 32 

Kedgeree 32 

Bomllabaise 33 

ENTREES 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 39 

Terrapin 40 

Frogs a la Poulette 40 

Calves' Head en Tortue 41 

Chops a la Reine 42 

Calves' Feet a la Marechale 43 

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops 44 



INDEX— Continued 

Page 

Lamb Chops » la Neoidrode 44 

Devil Chops 45 

Lamb Cutlets Duchesse 4A 

Lamb Cutlets a la Condi 46 

Eggs with Tomatoes — 47 

Macaroni a la Rossini 47 

Timbale of Macaroni for Twelve Persona 48 

CHICKEN AND QAME 

Chicken Portuguese 55 

Chicken with Oysters 56 

Casuela. ...... . --.-.._---_----------- 56 

Fried Chicken, Maryland Style 57 

Chicken with Rice — 57 

Chicken with Spaghetti - 58 

Quail with Celery - 5© 

Pheasant a la Savarin . 59 

Quail and Onion . 60 

Sakni of Duck with Olives >.. 60 

Stewed Squabs 61 

MEATS 

Yorkshire Steaks 67 

Filet of Beef a la Rossini 67 

Yorkshire Pudding 68 

Cold Roast Beef Stewed ^— 68 

Lobscouse 68 

Perchero 69 

Stewed Cold Mutton or Beef 70 

Lamb with Macaroni . 70 

Stewed Fresh Tongue 71 

Pork Pie 72 

To Barbecue a Pig (very old dish) 72 

To Boil a Ham 73 

Mexican Tripe 74 

Spanish Bacon on Toast 74 

SAUCES 

Sauce for Canvas-back Duck 83 

Sauce for Wild Fowl 83 

Hollandaise Sauce 84 

Parsley Butter - 84 

Green Sauce 85 

EaE Sauce .- 85 

Cwery Sauce , - 85 

Devil for Boiled Ham or Fowl ^ 86 

Onion Sauce .. 87 

Garlic Sauce - 87 

Melted Butter 88 

Salad Dressing Without Oil j 88 



INDEX— Continued 

VEQETABLES P««« 

Aiparagus aux Milanaise 05 

Gom au Gratin 05 

Chonfleur au Gratin 06 

Okra 06 

Potato Cream 07 

Sweet Potatoes 07 

Chili Beans 07 

To Boil Rice 08 

Risotto 00 

SALADS 

Club Salad 106 

Winter Salad 105 

Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad ^ 106 

DESSERTS AND CAKES 

Mince Meat 111 

Hot Zabajone 111 

Frozen Zabajone 112 

Genoise Pastry 112 

Omelette Souffle 113 

Marmalade Pudding 113 

Amherst Pudding . 114 

Brown Betty 114 

Chocolate Pudding 115 

Bread and Molasses Pudding 116 

Baked Bananas 116 

Hermits 116 

Lady Baltimore Cake 117 

Silver Cake 118 

Gold Cake 118 

Fig FilUng for Cake 118 

Thin Gingerbread 110 

WINE CUPS AND PUNCHES 

Champagne Cup I 125 

Champagne Cup II 125 

Champagne Cup III - 126 

Champagne Cup IV 126 

Champagne Cup V 127 

Hook Ctfp 127 

Badminton Claret Cup - 127 

Moselle Cup ~ 128 

Sauteme Cup. 128 

Champagne Punch 120 

"T" Punch 120 

New York Club Punch 130 

MUk Punch 130 

Apple Toddy 1 131 

Apple Toddy II 131 



A 



9Wa 



:~-: -r*- 















'■ ,Z-~' ■5'^-V^^^i^ 






:23P 




— -^ 



