t'ii3>T1.1i 




^4^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^mtt^^ '4WMB .jtamti 







c 







DANIEL WEBSTER COOK B OOK 



Copyright 1907 
BY 



pAGLE ROLLER MILL COMPANY 

NEW Ulm, Minnesota 










?0ilGHT5|:T|)m5URE5 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

4 teaspoonfuls of liquid — 1 tablespoon. 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid — i gill or { cupful. 

1 teaspoonful of liquid — A ounce. 

1 pint of liquid — 1 pound 

2 gills of liquid — 1 cup or h pint. 
1 cup of liquid — ^ pint. 
1 heaping quart sifted flour — 1 pound. 
4 cup's of flour — 1 quart or 1 pound. 
1 rounded tablespoonful of flour — h ounce. 

3 cups of cornmeal — 1 pound. 
1 cup of butter — h pound. 
1 tablespoonful of butter — 1 ounce. 
Butter size of an egg — 2 ounces. 
Butter size of a walnut — 1 ounce. 
1 solid pint of chopped meat — 1 pound. 
10 eggs — 1 pound. 
1 pint granulated sugar — 1 pound. 
1 pint brown sugar — 1^ ounces. 
2\ cups powdered sugar — 1 pound. 




DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST. 





Many Husbands are utterly spoiled by mismanage- 
ment in cooking and so are not tender and good. 

Some women go about it as if their husbands were 
bladders, and blow them up; others keep them constant- 
ly in hot water; others let them freeze by their care- 
lessness and indifference. Some keep them in a stew 
by irritating ways and words, others roast them, and 
others keep them in a pickle all their lives. It cannot 
be supposed that any husband will be tender and 
good, managed in this way, but they are really delicious 
when properly treated. In selecting your husband 
you should not be guided by the silvery appearance 
as in buying mackerel, nor by the golden tint, as if 
you wanted salmon. Be sure to select him yourself, 
as tastes differ. Do not go to the market for him, as 
the best are always brought to the door. It is far 
better to have none unless you will patiently learn 
how to cook him. A preserving kettle of the finest 
porcelain is best, but if you have nothing better than 
an earthenware pipkin, it will do with care. See that 
the linen in which you wrap him is nicely washed and 
inended, with the required number of buttons and 
strings nicely sewed on. Tie him in a kettle by a 
strong silken cord called Comfort, as the one called 
Duty is apt to be weak. He is apt to fly out of the 
kettle and be burned and crusty on the edges, since, 
like crabs and lobsters, you have to cook him while 
alive. Make a clear, steady fire out of love, neatness 
and cheerfulness, set him as near this as seems to 
agree with him. If he sputter and fizz, do not be 
anxious about hiin, some husbands do this until they 
are quite done. Add a little sugar in the form of what 
confectioners call kisses, but no vinegar or pepper 
must be used on any account. A little spice improves 
them, but it must be used with care and judgment. 
Do not stick any sharp instrument into him to see 
if he is becoming tender, stir him gently, watch the 
while, and you cannot fail to know when he is done. 
If thus treated you will find him very digestible, 
agreeing nicely with you and the children, and he will 
keep as long as you wish, unless you become careless 
and set him in too cold a place. 



DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST. 

6 




"We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We may live without friends, we may live without 

books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

We may live without books, what is knowledge but 

grieving? 
We may live without hope, what iS hope but deceiving? 
We may live without love, what is love but repining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?' 





DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST. 

7 





BAKING OF BREAD. 

(From Boston Cooking School Cook Book.) 

Bread is baked : 

First ; to kill ferment. 

Second: to make soluble the starch. 

Third : to drive off alcohol and carbon dioxide. 

Fourth : to form crust of pleasant flavor. 

Bread should be baked in a hot oven. If the oven 
be too hot, the crust will brown quickly before the 
heat has reached the center, and prevent further rising. 
The loaf should continue rising for lifst fifteen minutes 
of baking, when it should begin to brown, and con- 
tinue browning for the next twenty minutes. The last 
sixteen minutes it should finish baking, when the heat 
may be reduced. When bread is done, it will not 
cling to the sides of the pan and may be easily removed. 

Biscuits require more heat than loaf bread, should 
continue ri.sing the first five minutes, and begin to 
brown in eight minutes. Experience is the best guide 
for testing temperature of oven. Various oven ther- 
mometers have been made, but none bave proved 
practical. Bread may be brushed over with melted 
butter, three minutes before removal from oven if a 
more tender crust is desired. 

Remove loaves at once froin pans and place side 
down on a wire bread or cake cooler. If crisp crust 
is desired, allow bread to cool without covering; if 
soft crust, cover with a towel during cooling. When 
cool put in tin box or stone jar, and cover closely. 
Never keep bread wrapped in cloth as the cloth will 
absorb moisture and transmit an unpleasant taste 
to bread. Bread tins or jars should be washed and 
scalded twice a week in winter, and every other day 
in summer; otherwise bread is apt to mold. 
YEAST: 

Take six potatoes and boil in two quarts of water, 
two tablespoons sugar, two of flour, and mix with the 
boiled, thoroughly mashed potatoes. Then add potato 
water slowly. Set on stove and let come to a boil. 
Soak two yeast cakes and when yeast is tepid, put in 
and let stand twenty-four hours. A cup of this yeast will 
makesi.x ordinary loaves. Yeast will keep along time in 
self-sealed jars. 
YEAST: 

1 quart warm water. h cup sugar. 
8 tablespoons flour. Handful of salt. 

Two yeast cakes dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water. Start this in the morning and at noon mash 
12 large potatoes. Pour on them one quart boiling 
water and one quart cold water and add the above 
veast. 




" DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST. 





BREAD 

Make your yeast in the usual way after dinner, 
being careful to keep it warm. At nine o'clock add a 
tablespoon of lard and enough water to make one 
quart. Put it into the "Universal Three-Minute 
Bread Maker. " Then put in three quarts of sifted 
Daniel Webster flour. Turn the bread maker three 
minutes. Cover it up warm and let it stand until 
morning. Slip a knife around the edge, . then turn 
a minute. Take out and cut into loaves and put into 
pans to rise for the oven. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD: 

I quart entire wheat 1 teaspoon sugar, 
flour, 2 teaspoons Baking 

I teaspoon salt. Powder. 

Sift all well together, add sufficient liquid, water, 
milk, or equal quantities of each, to mix to a very 
thick or .soft dou'^h. Turn at once into greased pan, 
smooth with knife dipped in cold water and bake 
about one hour in moderate oven. 

RYE BREAD: 

Mi.K well three quarts of Daniel Webster flour and 
one of rye flour, take one quart of the same and pre- 
pare a sponge in the evening. Use one quart of water 
for the sponge. Put your yeast into the sponge and 
let rise in warm place. In the morning make a hole 
in the rest of the flour and pour sponge into the same. 
Put in a good handful of salt and add about a quart 
of water. Knead well. Let this rise well and then 
make into loaves. This will make four good sized 
loaves. 

SALT RISING BREAD: 

Stir into two tablespoons of boiling milk, one heaping 
tablespoon corn meal. Let stand over night. Make 
a thick sponge of warm water and Daniel Webster 
flour in a quart bowl two-thirds full. Add to this 
the cornmeal and milk. Stir thoroughly together with 
two tablespoons salt. Set in a warm place and let 
rise. Take a pint each of warm water and milk, stir 
thick with flour. Add to this the sponge in a bowl. 
Let stand in warm place till the bowl is full or nearly 
so. Knead very little. Make into loaves and let 
rise one hour in a warm place. This makes three 
loaves. 

WHITE BREAD: 

To about three and one-half pounds of sifted Daniel 
Webster flour add two teaspoonfuls of-' salt and mix 
thoroughly together. Then dissolve two cakes of 
Compressed Yeast in one pint of lukewarm water to 
it. See that the water is not hot. Pour the water 
and yeast over the flour and make a moderately stiff 
dough. Knead thoroughly and set in a warm place 
to rise. When well risen, mould into loaves; let 
them rise and then bake. 




'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

9 





CORN BREAD: 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of Daniel Webster 

2 cups of sour milk, flour, 

2^ cups of corn meal, f cup of molasses, 
J teaspoon soda, 
Salt. 
Put in cans and steam three hours. 
BOSTON BROWN BREAD: 

Two cups of Graham flour, one of corn meal, one- 
half of Daniel Webster flour, two of sour milk, one of 
New Orleans molasses, and one teaspoon of soda. 
Melt top from tin cans in which canned corn or peas 
are bought. Fill them a little over half full of the 
batter and steam three or four hours. A nice crust 
on top is gained by setting the cans of bread in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. Dip into cold water for a 
minute and the loaf will slip out easily. 
RYE BREAD: 

At night set sponge for white bread. In the morn- 
ing take about one quart of this batter and put into 
a mixing bowl into which one pint of Daniel Webster 
flour and two pints of rye flour have been sifted. Add 
to this one egg (beaten or not, as you choose), one-half 
cup of molasses or brown sugar, one heaping table- 
spoon of butter or lard, and one teaspoon of caraway 
seed, if it is liked. Knead until the dough does not 
adhere to the hands or moulding board. Then set 
to rise. When it is light mould into loaves and let 
rise again. Then bake. This makes four small loaves. 
Graham flouf may be used instead of the rye, or one 
pint of each may be used with one pint of white flour. 
BOSTON BROWN BREAD: 

Take two cups each of Daniel Webster and Graham 
flour, one cup of Indian meal, one teaspoon of soda, 
one cup molasses, three and a half cups of milk and 
a little salt. Beat well and steam five hours. 
RUSKS: 

Set bread with milk in evening quite stiff. In 
morning add butter and sugar to taste. Knead down 
twice; then bake in loaves. When two days old cut 
jnto slices and put into oven until light brown. 

JOHNNY CAKE: 

Take two cups of corn meal, one-half cup of Daniel 
Webster flour, two cups of sour milk, one and a half 
teaspoons soda, pinch of salt, one-half cup sugar, two • 
tablespoons of melted butter, two eggs. Bake in 
shallow tins. 

GRAHAM BREAD: 

Take one quart of water and one cup of potato 
yeast; mix and stir in enough Daniel Webster flour 
to make a soft batter. Cover and allow to rise in a 
warm place. Then add one tablespoon lard, two of 
molasses or sugar, one teaspoon salt; mix into the 
batter, and knead in enough Graham flour to make a 
stiff dough. Cover and allow to rise; make into loaves 
and allow to rise (not too long,) and bake in a quick 
oven. 



'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

10 




OCKETBOQK ROLLS: 

Take four cups of bread sponge, one of sugar and 
ne of butter and lard mixed, one of water, warm 
nough to warm a cup of milk, one of milk, and salt. 
Jse flour enough to make it not nearly so stiff as 
read. Let rise and roll out and cut into pocketbook 
hape, with a little butter between. Let rise and bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS: 




Two cups of warm milk, one yeast cake, two cups 
of Daniel Webster flour, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, and one 
egg. Dissolve the yeast in a little warm milk. Sift 
the flour into a bowl and add sugar and salt. Make 
a hollow in the center and put in the yeast and some 
of the milk. Commence ini.xing with the hand. Next 
add the egg, butter and remaining milk. Set in a 
warm jilace until very light. Then work with suf- 
ficient sifted flour into a soft dough and let rise again 
very light. Then roll out and cut into rounds with 
a cake cutter. Brush the rounds with butter, double 
them over and set in buttered pan one inch apart 
Let rise to double their size and bake to a fine golden 
color. While hot brush over with melted butter. 
STEAMED BROWN BREAD: 

Take one cup each of Daniel Webster flour, corn 
meal. Graham flour, and mola.sses, two cups sour milk, 
one teaspoon salt, heaping teaspoon soda dissolved in 
about one-fourth cup hot water, beat all together 
thoroughly. Steam four hours. If steamed two hours 
the second day it is still better. 
EASTERN BROWN BREAD: 

Take one pint each of rye or Graham and Indian 
meal, one cup molasses, three-fourths of sour milk, 
one and a half teaspoons soda, one and a half pints 
cold water. Put on the stove over cold water. Steam 
four hours and brown in the oven. 

ISCUIT: 

Take three cups each of. milk and Daniel Webster 

3ur, three or four eggs (whites beaten separately), 

le teaspoon each salt and baking powder. 

APLE BISCUIT: 

Measure one quart Daniel Webster flour, a level 
aspoon salt, four even teaspoons baking powder, 
ft well together. Rub two large tablespoons butter 
to flour until well blended. Add rich milk to make 
ft dough (about one pint.) Have one cupful maple 
Lgar cut into small pieces about the size of peas, 
dd to the dough. Roll out into a sheet about an 
ch thick and cut with a small biscuit cutter. Place • 

buttered pans so they will not touch. Bake in 
Dt oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT: 

Take one quart of Daniel Webster flour, one-half 
cup butter, four teaspoons of baking powder. Mix 
with milk and flour to make a soft dough. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 




11 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT: 

Use three cups of Daniel Webster flour, two large 
teaspoons of baking powder, and a little salt. Take 
butter or lard the size of an egg and work in. Milk 
enough to make soft. Bake in a hot oven. 




CHRISTMAS BREAD: 

Warm a quart of milk just too warm to bear your 
finger in. Put into it a tablespoon of lard, and a 
good sized one of butter, a large teaspoon of salt. 
Have two cakes of compressed yeast soaked in half 
a cup of warm water. Add two eggs well beaten, one 
cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, one-half cup of citron 
cut fine, a large teaspoon of cardamoin seed, measured 
after shelling, and pounded fine in a cloth. If the milk 
is not too hot, put in the yeast, and add Daniel Webster 
flour enough gradually to mix stiff like bread. When 
raised, which will take a little longer than ordinary 
bread, mould into loaves, and after raising again, bake 
at least one hour. Can be mixed in the morning and 
be all done by six o'clock in the evening. Have the 
ingredients all in readiness before beginning, so the 
milk will not cool off too much before adding the flour. 

SUGAR ROLLS: 

Put into a mixing pan one quart of Daniel Webster 
flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder, one 
handful of white sugar, one heaping tablespoon of lard, 
and a teaspoon of salt. Rub all together until well 
mixed. Then stir, wetting with milk or water until 
just soft enough to roll. Roll out about one-third 
inch thick. Spread over it melted gutter and brown 
sugar sprinkled with cinnamon. Roll up and cut about 
three-fourths of an inch thick and bake in quick oven. 

BISCUIT: 

Take one quart of Daniel Webster flour, one heaping 
teaspoon of each butter and lard, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, salt, and milk enough to make soft 
dough. 

ZIPKUCHEN: 

Take one pound sugar, one-half pound each of lard, 
butter, citron, and almonds, four and a half pounds 
of Daniel Webster flour, four eggs, one quart of molasses, 
two teaspoons soda, one tablespoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon, one teaspoon each of allspice and cardamom, 
and one grated lemon and juice. Make dough in the 
evening and let it stand over night in a cool place. 
In the morning roll and bake. 

VIENNA BREAD: 

Soak a compressed yeast cake in one-half cup of 

luke warm water. Take two cups of milk, three of 

hot water, lump of sugar size of an egg, one table- 
spoon of salt and one of sugar. Add Daniel Webster 

flour enough to make a sponge. Put in yeast cake 

and heat ten minutes. Knead into a loaf. When 

real light put into a tin. Let rise until light and bake 

one hour. 





FOE BEST KESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTEK FLOUR. 



12 



POCKETBOOKS: 

■, Warm one quart new milk; add one cup butter or 
lard, four tablespoons sugar and two well beaten eggs. 
Stir in Daniel Webster flour enough to make a moder- 
ately stifl sponge. Add a small cup of yeast and set 
in a warm place to rise, which will take three or four 
hours. Then mix in flour enough to make a soft 
dough. Let rise again. When well risen dissolve a 
lump of soda size of a bean in a spoon of milk. Wash 
it into the dough and roll into sheets one-half an inch 
in thickness. Spread with a thin ayer of butter; 
cut into squares and fold over, pocketbook shape. 
Put on tins to rise for a little while, when they will 
be fit for the oven. In summer the sponge can be 
made up in the morning and rise in time for tea. 
In cool weather it is best to set it over night. 





SWISS NEW YEAR'S CAKE: 

This sliould be set in the morning. Take five eggs, 
one and one-half cups of fresh milk (luke warm), three 
tablespoons of melted butter, salt, Daniel Webster 
flour enough to make stiff; then work a half hour 
until blisters appear on the dough. Now let it stand 
four or five hours, then take off a piece of dough, 
about the size of a walnut, stretch this until thin as 
paper, put them all away to dry. Leave for an hour 
or two, then fry in very hot lard and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

BUNS: 

To one pint bread sponge, one cup warm milk add 
Daniel Webster flour to the thickness of pancake dough. 
Set to rise. Then add one small cup lard, the white 
of an egg and flour to make stift". Set to rise again. 
When risen roll out, cut in squares and set in pans 
to rise again. Then bake in a hot oven. When done 
wash over with a little milk and sugar. 



RYE DROP CAKES: 

1 egg well beaten, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 i cupfuls of sweet 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 

milk, 1 J cupfuls of rye meal. 

When these ingredients are well blended, add one- 
half cupful molasses and one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder sifted with a bit of the meal. Mix 
well and drop the batter from a spoon into deep hot 
fat. • 

GRAHAM GEMS: 

Take one heaping tablespoon of sugar, one-half of 
melted lard, one egg well beaten, two level teaspoons 
of baking powder, and one of salt, two cups Graham 
meal and sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Bake in 
irons that have been well greased and are very hot. 

WAFFLES: 

Take one cup each of cream and Daniel W^ebtser 
flour, three eggs, whites whipped, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, one tablespoon of sugar, pinch of salt, 
and flavor. Bake in waffle irons. 



*'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 




13 




INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKE: 

Take one pint of Indian meal, three eggs, one cup 

Daniel Webster flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking 

powder, one teaspoon of salt and one pint of milk. 

Put the Indian meal into a bowl and pour over it 

just enough boiling water to scald it; do not make 

it soft; and let stand until cool. Add the milk, beat 

the eggs until very light, (do not separate them) add 

them to the batter. Then add the flour and salt; 

beat vigorously for three minutes, then add the baking 

powder, mix well, and bake quickly on a hot griddle. 
WAFFLES: 

Use two eggs, two tablespoons butter, two cups cold 
water, two cups Daniel Webster flour, and two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Melt the butter and add the 
eggs well beaten, then water and flour, and last baking 
powder. Beat thoroughly and bake m very hot well 
greased waffle irons. 

RAISED WAFFLES: 

Soak one-half shce of bread in one-half pint of water; 

add one-half pint of milk one-half compressed yeast 

cake and Daniel Webster flour for thin batter. Let 

stand over night. In morning add two eggs, pinch 

of salt, one small teaspoon of soda, two tablespoons 

melted butter. 

PLAIN MUFFINS: 

Use one egg, a tablespoon of butter, a tablespoon 
of sugar, a teaspoon of salt, all beaten until very light, 
one cup of milk, three cups of Daniel Webster flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder. Drop on well 
greased patty pans and bake twenty minutes in a 
rather quick oven. 
MUFFINS: 

Take three eggs beaten separately, one cup of milk, 
one cup of Daniel Webster flour, and one teaspoon, 
baking powder. Add whites last. 
PANCAKES: 

Take one quart of sour milk, one teaspoon of salt, 
and sift Daniel Webster flour enough for a rather 
thick batter. Mix, set in a warm place over night, 
next morning stir in a teaspoon of soda, dissolved in 
warm water, and two well beaten eggs. Add one 
teaspoon of sugar and fry in very little fat. 

SOUR MILK PANCAKES: 

Three eggs to a pmt of sour milk, a level teaspoon 

of soda, a little salt, and Daniel Webster flour for a 

thin batter are used. 

GERMAN POTATO CAKES: 

Pare and grate six large, raw potatoes. Add two 

eggs, one pint of milk, salt, and a tablespoon of sugar, 

one teaspoon baking powder in from one-half to one 

pint of Daniel Webster flour. Drop the batter by 

the spoonful on a hot greased griddle as for pancakes. 

Serve hot with butter and salt or with stewed fruit. 





"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

14 




DELICATE MUFFINS: 

Take one pint (sifted) Daniel Webster flour, sifted 
with two heaping teaspoons of baking powder. To 
this add a piece of butter the size of an egg, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one teacup of sweet milk. Bake 
in a quick oven. Have muffin tins heated before 
putting into them. 



GEMS: 

Use one cup of sweet milk, one egg. one tablespoon 
of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter, one and 
one-half cups Daniel Webster flour, one heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder and a little salt. Bake in 
hot gem pans about 15 minutes, in a hot oven. One 
cup Graham flour and one-half cup white flour, or 
one cup' white flour and one-half cup corn meal may 
also be used. 




BREAKFAST GEMS: 

Take two and one-half cups of Daniel Webster flour, 
two heaping teaspoons of baking powder, four table- 
spoons sugar, a small teaspoon of salt. Mix with 
flour, add a teaspoon of melted butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, and two eggs. Beat very light for about 
ten minutes. Have gem pans well heated and greased. 
Bake 15 minutes. 



MUFFINS: 

Take two tablespoons of sugar, one heaping table- 
spoon of butter, two eggs, whites beaten separately, 
one cup of milk, two cups of Daniel Webster flour, 
and two teaspoons of baking powder. 



GOOD MUFFINS: 

1 egg, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 
Little salt, 
1 cup sweet milk, 
(little at a time). 



Bake in hot oven in gem pans. 



^ cup melted butter, 

2 coffee cups Daniel 

Webster flour, 

3 even teaspoons baking 
powder. 



FRITTERS: 

3 eggs well beaten, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

H cups milk. A little salt. 

Daniel Webster flour to make a stiff batter thicker 
than for pan cakes. Drop by spoonfuls into hot lard 
and fry a nice brown. Serve with warm Maple 
Syrup. 





"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



15 





FOR BEST RESULTS USE DAXIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 




G65-ACTLY 



EGGS. 



"Take em in time, 

An' they're ^ood as gold 
But leave too long, 

An' you'll see your're sold. " 
BREAD OMELETTE: 

Two eggs, one-quarter of a cup of stale bread crumbs, 
one-quarter cup of milk, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one and one-half teaspoon of butter. Soak the crumbs 
in milk fifteen minutes, add salt to the yolks of the 
.eggs, well beaten, and fold in the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff. Put butter in pan, heat, and then put 
in omelet. 

EGGS A LA MARTIN: 

Melt a teaspoon of buttei, add a teaspoon of flour, 
or more if preferred thicker, when well mingled one 
cup of cream, then four tablespoons of grated cheese. 
Stir well, pour into buttered baking dish and care- 
fully break four eggs into it; place m a hot oven and 
as soon as poached, serve at once. 

POACHED EGGS WITH SPAGHETTI: 

Break one-half a pound of spaghetti into pieces one 
inch long, throw in boiling salt water and cook twenty 
minutes; drain; put one ounce of butter into a sauce- 
pan, one gill of tomato sauce; dust of salt and pepper; 
place as a border on hot dish; then slip poached eggs 
into the middle of spaghetti, sprinkhng parsley on 
top, with triangles of toast placed in border. 
BAKED OMELETTE: 

Five eggs, one small teacup of milk, butter size of 
a walnut, one tablespoon of flour, a little salt. Beat 
yolks, add melted butter, milk, flour and salt, lastly 
the beaten whites. Butter a dish just the size to hold 
it. Bake in quick oven. 




pint veal or chicken 

stock, 

ta blespoonf uls of cream, 

hard boiled eggs sliced. 



CURRIED EGGS: 

2 tablespoonfuls of \ 

butter, 

2 sma'l onions minced, 2 

2 dessert spoonfuls of 6 
curry powder, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Cook the onions in the butter until they begm to 
brown; stir in the curry powder. Mix well and add 
flour, then the stock' stirring quickly until smooth. 
Simmer ten minutes, then add cream and pour over 
eggs. 



"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

18 



FRICASSED EGGS: 

2 tablespoonfuls of Sprig of parsley, 

butter, ^ pint white stock, 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 6 hard boiled eggs sliced. 

6 minced mushrooms. 

When butter is melted add flour stirring constantly, 
parsley (cut fine) mushrooms, and stock. Simmer 
five minutes; add eggs. Boil up once and serve hot. 




SWISS BREAKFAST DISH: ^ 

Line a deep pie plate with thin slices of cheese and 
pour over one-half of one cup of smoothly blended 
cream with one teaspoonful of mustard and a speck 
of red pepper. Carefully break 6 eggs into it, pour 
over the balance of the cream and bake ten minutes. 



BAKED EGGS: 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add a very little 
salt. Spread roughly on a platter and make a nest 
for each yolk some distance apart. Season and bake 
till the white is a delicate brown. 



RICE OMELETTE: 

Warm a cup of cold boiled rice in one cup of milk 
with one tablespoon of butter; stir and beat till well 
blended; add three well beaten eggs and salt as 
needed. Proceed as with plain omelette in cooking. 



SCOTCH EGGS: 

Six eggs, boiled 20 minutes. Cook one-third cup 
stale bread crumbs in one-third cvip milk to a smooth 
paste. Add one cup lean cooked ham chopped very 
fine, add one-half teaspoonful mixed mustard, one- 
half teaspoonful red pepper, and one raw egg. Mix 
well, then remove shells from eggs and cover with the 
mixture. Fry in hot fat two minutes. Drain and 
serve hot, or cold for lunches or picnics. 



EGG BALLS: 

Three pints boiling water in a stewpan over a hot 
fire. Stir with a stick till it runs rapidly around. 
Drop an egg into the whirling water, being careful 
not to break the yolk. Continue to stir till egg is 
cooked; then remove with a skimmer and keep hot 
over boiling water while the rest arecooked. 



EGG TIMBALES: 

Six eggs, one and one-half cups milk, one teaspoon 
of salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon 
chopped parsley and one-fourth teaspoon of onion 
juice. Beat eggs well, add seasoning; then milk and 
stir well. Pour in eight buttered timbale moulds, 
set in pan of hot water; place in moderate oven and 
cook until firm in center. Pour a cream or tomato 
sauce over for serving. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS: 

Beat together four eggs, one-half cup cream or 
rich milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon 
pepper. Turn into hot buttered pan stir till set. 
Serve on toast. 



"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

19 





TOMATO OMELETTE: 

In the fat from three slices of bacon, cook one 
shced onion until a light brown. Beat three eggs 
slightly, add a dash of cayenne and three tablespoons 
of thick stewed tomato, then the fried onion and 
crisp bacon, finely crumbed; turn into an oinelet 
pan and pick it up with a fork as the egg thickens. 

DEVILED EGGS: 

Six hard boiled eggs, one-half a cup of chopped 
ineat, one salt spoon of mustard, one tablespoon of 
incited butter, and seasoning or salad dressing, moisten- 
ing with cream enough to hold together. Mash the 
volks and add, forming balls for the halved whites. 



ICALLOPED EGGS: 

Boil eight eggs 10 or 15 minutes; have ready a 
-h gravy, made as follows: Melt one tablespoon of 
itter add one tablespoon of flour, when well mixed 
Id two cups of Milk and stir constantly until thick; 
It to taste and set aside to get cold. 

Press the eggs through a potato ricer or grate them ; 
fill a well buttered baking dish with alternate layers 
of eggs and gravy, adding a little salt and pepper to 
each layer. When filled, spread with cracker crumbs, 
thoroughly moistened with melted butter. Bake 
about half an ho\ir or until brown. 



1EESE SOUFFLE: 

Piece of butter size of an egg, melt and add a table- 
loon of flour, one-half a cup of sweet milk, boil until 
ick; add one cup of grated cheese; cool and add 
ree eggs, yolks first and then beaten whites; a 
nch of salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. Bake 
a pan of water 10 or 15 minutes. Serve at once. 



OMELETTE: 

A delicate omelette is made from four eggs beaten 
separately, one cup of sweet milk, one tablespoon 
flour, a pinch of salt,; add flour dissolved in a little 
milk to the well beaten yolks; then stir in gently the 
stiffly beaten whites, and lastly the milk. Have a 
deep spider, well buttered and hot; pour in; cover; 
cook on top of stove until set on edges; then remove 
cover and place in oven until browned; then double 
and place on platter. 



W 



ANISH OMELETTE: \^ \^ 

Cut four ounces of bacon in thin slices, and then sN 
to half inch squares; cook till crisp; add one small 
lion, a tomato, five mushrooms all chopped fine; rub 
freshly cut clove of garlic on the spoon used to stir, 
hile cooking 15 minutes. Break six eggs in a bowl, 
ason with one saltspoon salt, one quarter salt spoon 
;pper. Add the above mixture and proceed as in 
ain omelette. 



"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST. 

20 





21 




SOUPS: 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP: 

Break three whites of eggs into a cup, fill with 
milk, and add one cup of flour and butter the size 
of two walnuts. Boil this; keep stirring all the time. 
Take from stove when well done and add the yolks 
of two eggs, salt and nutmeg to taste. 



POTATO DUMPLINGS: 

Creain one tablespoon of butter, add a little salt 
and nutmeg, the yolks of four eggs and two and a 
half cups of boiled, mashed potatoes. Then roll 
twelve crackers verjr fine, and take half as much flour. 
Add the beaten whites of four eggs. Dip v.'ith a spoon 
into boiling water, with a little salt, and let boil until 
thoroughly cooked. 

LIVER DUMPLINGS: 

Use calves' liver; chop fine; grate biscuit or bread 
Cabout a cup), and soak in milk; break two eggs, 
beating yolks and whites separately. Add a table- 
spoon of Daniel Webster flour, a little salt and nug- 
meg. Form with a spoon and drop into soup, letting 
boil slowly 10 or 15 minutes. 

POTATO DUMPLINGS: 

Boil potatoes until moderately soft and then remove 
skins. Grate potatoes. Take three parts of potatoes 
to one of grated bread. To one pint of the mixture 
add two well beaten egggs, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, a pinch of nutmeg and salt. Mix well, form 
into balls, roll in flour and boil in salt water for 15 
minutes. Do not cover the kettle. 





POTATO DUMPLINGS: 

Take two cups of mashed potatoes, twelve crackers, 
and as much flour and a little milk, four eggs, whites 
well beaten; butter the size of an egg, salt and nutmeg. 

NOODLES: 

Take two eggs and as much water; mix with Daniel 
Webster flour until stiff; roll out thin and let dry. 
Then slice. Put into boiling water, boil 10 minutes 
and strain water from noodles. Before serving, brown 
a little bread in butter and put over noodles. The 
gravy from stewed veal may be poured over. 



" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



23 




CHICKEN SOUP: 

Use three pints of chicken stock, 10 pepper corns, 
two shoes carrot, one shce of onion one blade of mace, 
one pint of milk, three tablespoons of butter, three 
tablespoons of Daniel Webster flour, salt and pepper. 
Cook the chicken stock with the pepper corns, carrots, 
onion and mace for thirty minutes. Add the :nilk 
thickened with butter and flour cooked together. 
.Vdd salt and pepper to taste. 

WALDORF OYSTER STEW: 

Take one quart of liquid oysters (a teascup for three 
persons), put liquor in a stew pan, add one-half as 
much water, salt, pepper, teaspoon of butter for each 
person, and one tablespoon rolled cracker crumbs for 
each person. As soon as it boils pour in- oysters (10 
for each person), count 30 seconds, take oysters out. 
In tureen have one and a half tablespoons cold milk 
for each person. Pour on stew and serve iminediately. 

SALSIFY SOUP: 

Scrape and cut into thin slices, six salsify, and cook 
until tender. Mash or rice and add milk enough for 
soup needed, seasoning with butter, salt and pepper, 
and thickening with one tablespoon of Daniel Webster 
flour. 

PEA SOUP: 

Soak over night one pint of peas. In the morning 
put on stove with one-fourth teaspoon of soda, boil 
1 5 minutes and drain off this water. Put in fresh 
water and add a piece of pork, or when almost done 
a piece of summer sausage, one carrot, one onion, 
sotne celery, and boil until all is tender. Season ; 
then run through colander. Serve with wheat bread 
cut into squares and fried brown in butter. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP: 

Take one pint can of tomatoes, » one quart of milk, 
one tablespoon of Daniel Webster flour, butter one- 
half size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste, small 
half teaspoon of soda, and very little onion. To the 
tomato add the soda and the onion, and cook until 
the tomato is soft. Put the milk on in double boiler, 
and bring to boiling point. Mix flour smooth with a 
little cold milk or water; stir into the boiling milk 
and cook until it thickens. Add butter, salt and 
])epper to the milk. Then rub the tomato through a 
fine strainer into the milk mixture. Stir and serve 
immediately. The tomato in the can should be well 
stirred because the licjuid portion is more acid. 

HAMBURG SOUP AND STEAK: 

Take two pounds of porter house steak; cut out 
the tenderloin and lay aside for frying. Scrape the 
remainder, also 10 cents worth of round steak, and 
join all loosely into sheet for Hamburg steak. Put 
the fragments, the bones, also the left overs of other 
meat into kettle filled with hot water. Add salt, one 
potato, a stalk of celery, very small onion, one clove, 
small piece of bay leaf (avoid cabbage and carrots). 
Half an hour before dinner remove the meat, bones 
and vegetables add a heaping tablespoon of rice or 
cream of wheat letting it boil vmtil ready to serve. 



"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 

2-4 




OYSTER STEW: 

For one pint of oysters take one quart of milk. 
Put milk on to boil. Put oysters in separate pan, 
add one teaspoon of butter a little water and season 
with pepper and salt. When milk is boiling and 
oysters have come to a boil, pour milk over. 

TOMATO SOUP: 

To one pint canned tomatoes, or four large ripe, 
raw ones, scalded, peeled and sliced, add boiling water, 
one quart, and boil thoroughly soft. Then add one 
teaspoon of cooking soda, and stir well. When done 
foaming, immediately add one pint sweet milk, with 
salt and pepper to taste, and about one tablespoon 
of butter. W^ien it boils again, add six or eight 
crackers rolled fine and serve at once. 




GREEK SOUP: 

Use turkey or chicken stock made the day before. 
Boil rice in water. When ready to serve put juice of 
one lemon in bottom of tureen, beat one egg, white 
and yolk separately, then together into tureen also. 
Pour over the hot soup and rice, beating thoroughly 
with egg beater to prevent curdling. 

TOMATO SOUP: 

Boil a soup bone two hours,. One-half hour before 
soup is to be served, take about one quart of tomatoes 
and boil until soft. Then strain to remove seeds. 
Put one tablespoon of butter into a spider two table- 
spoons of Daniel Webster flour, add tomato juice, 
and when boiling, beef broth; pepper, salt and onion 
to taste. 

SAGO SOUP: 

Add three ounces of sago to two quarts of stock; 
siminer half an hour st^rring well; beat yolks of three 
eggs and add one pint of boiling cream. Stir quickly 
into soup with one teaspoon of sugar. Serve im- 
mediately. Do not boil or eggs will curdle. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS: 

One pint of chestnuts, one tablespoon butter, one 
pint milk, salt and pepper, one cup cream, one egg. 
Shell and blanch the chestnuts. Cook in boiling salted 
water, to cover, until very soft. Mash them in the 
water left in the pan and rub them thru a fine strainer 
into the milk. Heat, add the cream, salt and pepper 
to taste, and when ready to serve, stir in the beaten 
egg quickly. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP: 

One cup lima beans, one small onion, two cups milk, 
two tablespoons butter, one cup water, one tablespoon 
Daniel Webster flour, one bay leaf, salt and pepper 
to taste. Slice the onion and brown in the butter, 
add the flour. Stir until smooth and brown. Add 
the water, bay leaf and beans. Cook twenty minutes or 
until the beans are soft. Press through the sieve. 
Scald the milk, add the beans and cook until thickened. 
Season and serve. 




'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 



2 5 




WINE SOUP: 

One quart boiling water, one cup (more or less to 
taste) red or white wine, two heaping tablespoons 
sugar, one scant teaspoon salt, nutmeg to taste, two 
tablespoons corn starch rubbed smooth in a little cold 
water. Just before serving add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. Brown little squares of wheat bread in 
butter and serve in the soup. 

POTATO SOUP: 

Three potatoes, one quart milk, two slices onion, 
three tablespoons butter, two tablespoons Daniel 
Webster flour, one and one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon celery salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, 
a little red pepper, one teaspoon chopped parsley. 
Cook potatoes in boiling salted water. When soft 
rub through a strainer. Scald milk with onion. 
Remove onion and add slowly to potatoes. Melt 
half the butter, add dry ingredients. Stir until well 
mixed. Then stir in boiling soup. Cook one minute, 
strain; add remaining butter and sprinkle with parsley. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP: 

Soak over night one cup black beans. Put on to 
boil in one and one-half quarts of water, adding one- 
half saltspoon soda, if water is hard. When beans 
begin to soften, pour oft" water and renew, adding bits 
of fat meat, not more than an ounce one small sliced 
onion and one clove. Let it boil fast and mash the 
beans. Do not strain until perfectly soft, or it will 
not be cream5^ When soft, strain, and add more 
water or stock if too thick. Season to taste, and 
serve over hard boiled eggs quartered, and thinnest 
possible slices of lemon. 

CREAM OF SALMON SOUP: 

One pint can of salmon, one quart milk, butter, 
pepper and salt. Remove all oil. bits of skin or pieces 
of bone from the salmon and chop very fine. Heat one 
quart milk boiling hot in double boiler, then add the 
salmon and season to taste with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

VELVET SOUP: 

One quart of good stock, one cup cream seasoned to 
taste, pour it boiling hot on the beaten yolks of four 
eggs, diluted with half a cup of cream. 




"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



26 



51 

1 





FISH TURBOT: 

Two and one-half pounds white fish boiled in salted 
water 20 minutes. When cool remove bones and skin 
and pick into small pieces. Make a dressing of one 
large cup milk, one-half teaspoon grated onion, one- 
third cup butter, one small tablespoon Daniel Webster 
flour, one egg and one tablespoon water. When milk 
boils, stir in the onion, then the flovir and butter 
rubbed together, then add the egg beaten with the 
water. Put together in a baking dish in alternate 
layers of dressing and fish. Cover the top with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. Bake about one-half hour 
or until a nice brown. Any cold cooked fish can be 
used for the above. 



BOILED FISH: (From Heidelberg, Ger/, 

Put a small onion inside the fish and tie it up in a 
towel. Cover with cold water, salt and a little vinegar 
and let it heat to the boiling point. Boil until tender. 
Allow about 15 minutes to a pound. 



SAUCE: 

Cream together a tablespoon of butter with a little 
flour and put over a gentle heat, add a little chopped 
parsley, a little grated onion pepper salt and nutmeg. 
When these ingredients are well mixed, add one-half 
pint of milk and let it boil 15 minutes. 



COD FISH BALLS: 

Chop eight cold boiled potatoes; add one-half as 
much flaked codfish that you have placed in water 
untU it comes to boil, and changed the water three 
times, one egg well beaten. Bind together with 
melted butter or pork drippings. Form into balls. 
Fry light brown. 



TO FRY FISH: 

Fry a number of pieces of bacon and place where 
they will keep hot. Have the fish cut into suitable 
pieces. 3a t and pepper each piece and roll in mix- 
ture half corn meal and half Daniel Webster flour, 
and frv in bacon fat. Garnish with the slices of bacon. 



MUSTARD GRAVY FOR FISH: 

One-half cup of cold milk, one tablespoon of mixed 
mustard stirred in until dissolved and cooked 15 
minutes, stirring so that it will not curdle. Add one 
tablespoon of butter. By adding two tablespoons of 
sugar it can be used for boiled meat. 




"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 




CREAMED FISH: 

Steam two pounds of codfish; break in flakes re- 
moving bones and skin. Make one pint white sauce. 
Grease a baking dish, fill with alternate layers of fish 
and sauce, seasoning with salt and pepper, chopped 
parsley, and lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar 
Mix together one cup dry bread crumbs and three 
tablespoons melted butter spread over top and brown 
in quick oven. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH: 

Put one tablespoon each of butter and Daniel 
Webster flour in saucepan over fire. When mixed 
without browning add one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
fourth teaspoon white pepper, then gradually one cup 
hot milk. Stir until smoothly thickened, and simmer 
for three minutes. 

SHRIMPS AND PEAS: 

1 pint milk. Salt, Cayenne 

2 tablespoons each 1 can shriinps, 
Daniel Webster flour I can Peas, 
and butter. 

Blend butter flour, milk, salt and cayenne; add 
the shrimps, cut in pieces, and the peas rinsed and 
drained. Serve on toast. 

SALMON LOAF: 

One can of salmon remove bones; three well beaten 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, one cup rolled cracker, a 
smal- piece of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Put 
into a greased basin and bake for one-half hour. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE FOR FISH: 

Yolks of two eggs, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg., juice of one-half a lemon, pinch of cayenne pepper 
and a little salt. Stir butter until creamy, add one 
yolk at a time, and then other ingredients; last, one- 
half cup of boiling water. Place over a kettle of boil- 
ing water, stirring until thick, being- careful not to 
let curdle. 

PICKLED FISH: 

Dress fish nicely, cut in desired slices, salt down for 
one hour, then wash off and drain in colander. Boil 
the following pickle for five minutes. Two-thirds 
vinegar, one-third water, whole pepper, whole cloves, 
bay leaves or mixed spices, salt and onions. Boil the 
fish in this pickle for about five minutes, not too many 
pieces at a time. Put in a dish, strain pickle over it, 
set aside to cool and jell. 

FISH CHOWDER: 

Cut two slices of fat salt pork into very small pieces 
and fry in a kettle until crisp. Slice rather thin, six 
large potatoes, and bone and cut into pieces about an 
inch square, two or three pounds of fish. When the 
pork is fried put into the kettle layers of sliced potato 
and fish, and cover with boiling water; add salt and 
cook slowly for an hour. Add a can of tomatoes and 
cook at least half an hour longer — the longer the 
better. Half a small onion ininced, may be added 
with the potato and fish if the flavor is liked, and 
three tablespoons of rolled cracker crumbs just before 
serving, if it is liked thicker. 

"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



30 




FRIED OYSTERS: 

Wipe the oysters dry, dip into cracker crumbs, then 
into egg, well beaten, and afterwards in bread crumbs. 
Fry in hot butter and lard. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS: 

Have ready a pint bowl of fine cracker crumbs. 
Butter a deep earthen dish; put a layer of the crumbs 
on the bottom; wet this with some of the oyster 
liquid; next have a layer of oysters; now sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and lay on small bits of butter. 
Repeat this process until the dish is full, being care- 
ful to have the top layer of dry cracker crumbs. Now 
beat an egg in a cup of milk and turn it over all. 
Cover the dish and bake in a middling hot oven for 
30 or 40 minutes, as may be necessary. When baked 
through, uncover and set on upper grate to brown. 
The above calls for one pint of oysters. 



SALMON CUTLETS: 

One-half can salmon, one large cup hot mashed 
potatoes, salt and pepper. Form, dip into egg and 
bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

ESCALOPED SALMON: 

Take one can of salinon ; inash or pick to pieces with 
a fork, removing all bones; butter porcelam dish; 
cover bottom with cracker crumbs, then layer of 
salmon, bits of butter, and pepper and salt. Repeat 
until dish is full, then cover with milk and bake one 
hour in hot oven. 

HOT SALMON SALAD: 

Heat one pint of milk and thicken with one-half 
cup of flour. Let cool and add twcf eggs well beaten, 
one-half cup butter, salt to taste. Grease a pan and 
put a layer of salmon into it, then layer of bread crumbs 
and butter, and so on until dish is filled. Pour over 
this the milk and bake half an hour. 

SALMON LOAF: 

Take one can of salmon and pour off the oil. Season 
one tablespoon of melted butter with salt and pepper. 
Stir together four eggs beaten light, one-half cup of 
milk or cream and one cup of cracker crumbs. Butter 
pan and bake about half a hour. 

DRESSING: 

Add oil of salmon to one cup of hot milk, one table- 
spoon of cornstarch, one tablespoon of butter and one 
egg. Boil together and add one tablespoon of catsup. 
Remove the loaf from pan, pour the dressing over 
and serve. 





'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST " 

31 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS: 

One quart of oysters, pick them out of the hquor, 
one by one with a fork. Put the oysters in fresh cold 
water, and stir around to wash them. Pick them out 
of this water and put thern on to cook in two cups of 
hot water. When the edges begin to curl they are 
cooked enough. Then drain the broth off and save 
it to put in the sauce. Ne.xt prepare a sauce inade 
with two tablespoons of melted butter, two table- 
spoons of Daniel Webtser flour, mi.x well, then add 
two cups of the warm oyster broth, and one cup of 
cream or milk; cook to a smooth sauce and salt to 
taste. Add last one tablespoon of lemon juice. Pre- 
pare before cooking the oysters, three pints of bread, 
crumbs, seasoned with four tablespoons of melted 
butter. In the bottom of a small pan put a layer of 
crumbs, then a layer of sauce, then a layer of oysters, 
repeat crumbs, sauce, oysters let the last layer on 
top be of crumbs. Put to bake. When nicely brown- 
ed over the top they are done. Have the rest of j^our 
meal ready as they bake very quickly. Measure the 
butter used, before melting, a rounded up tablespoonful. 



CLAM FRITTERS: 

6 clams chopped, 
1 cup milk, 
1 teaspoonful bakini 
powder, 



Add liquor from clams, 
Salt and pepper, 
Daniel Webster flour for 
rather stiff batter. 




Frv in hot lard. 



CLAMS A LA NEWBURG: 

One pint clams. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One 
gill sherry. Half pint cream. Yolks of two eggs. 
Melt the butter; when creamy put in the sherry. 
Beat together the yolks and cream; add gradually, 
stirring all the time. As soon as niixed. turn in clams 
from which all tough parts are trimmed and cook 
until plump. 



FRIED HALIBUT: 

One slice halibut. Four slices of salt pork, one 
tablespoonful lard, salt and Daniel Webster flour. 
Sprinkle halibut with .salt, dredge with flour. Fry 
pork a nice brown"; remove; add lard. When very 
hot put in fish. Fry brown on both sides. Serve 
with the pork and leinon slices. 





FISH TURBOT: 

Two and one-half pounds white fish boiled in salted 
water 20 minutes. When cool remove bones and skin 
and pick into small pieces. Make a dressing of one 
large cup milk, one-half teaspoon grated onion, one- 
third cup butter, one small tablespoon Daniel Webster 
flour, one egg and one tablespoon water. When milk 
boils, stir in the onion, then the flour and butter 
rubbed together, then add the egg beaten with the 
water. Put together in a baking dish in alternate 
layers of dressing and fish. Cover the top with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. Bake about one-half hour 
or until a nice brown. Any cold cooked fish can be 
used for the above. 



" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 




MEATS. 
SOUP MEAT: 

Place in kettle one tablespoon of lard and one of 
flour. Stir until brown; then add two cups of water, 
one-fourth cup vinegar, one tablespoon sugar, pepper 
and salt and one laurel leaf. Stir until all comes to 
a boil and then add the soup meat cut into thin slices. 
Boil 30 or 45 minutes. If gravy boils down add a 
little more water. 




BEEF STEAK IN TOMATO: 

Take a can of tomatoes, a pound of round steak, 
a small onion, one bay leaf, salt and pepper. Put 
all to gether into a spider and cover tightly Let 
cook slowly— on top of stove— for three hours. Cooking 
last absolutely spoils it. 

LEG OF LAMB ROAST: 

Four pounds, three-fourths of a cup of vinegar, one 

dozen cloves, one dozen allspice pepper, salt, one 

onion. Put over the meat the night before cooking. 

Steam two hours 

VEAL LOAF: 

Two pounds of veal, one and one-fourth pounds of 
pork, rind and juice of one-half lemon, one egg, pepper 
salt and onions to taste. 

GRAVY: 

One-fourth cup vinegar, one-fourth cup water 
small piece of butter, strip of bacon under and one 
over top of loaf. 

VEAL CUTLETS BREADED: 

Trim and flatten the cutlets, pepper and salt and 
roll in beaten egg, then in pounded cracker. Frv 
rather slowly in good dripping, turning when the 
lower side is brown, drain off the fat. Squeeze a 
little lemon upon each and serve in hot a flat dish. 

ROLLED BEEF: 

Use well pounded round steak, one-half pound in 

each roll. Add one tablespoon of butter, one sliced 

onion cooking until half done; then place on beef 

with bits of mutton tallow, pepper, salt and a few 

cloves. Roll, tie, rub with flour, place in stew pan 

with a little butter and flour and stew one and one- 

iialt hours, frjdng at the last. 

VEAL LOAF: 

Chop three pounds of veal, one-half pound of salt 
pork; roll six crackers; beat three eggs; add two 
tablespoons of cream to them and mix with the veal. 
Add the pork and crackers, one small tablespoon each 
of salt and sage, and one teaspoon of pepper. Bake 
in a loaf, two hours, basting often with butter and 
water melted together in a basin. (A piece of butter 
as large as a teacup and a cup of water. 

"fOE BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 







STUFFED VEAL BREAST: 

Soak four slices of white bread in milk; place one 
tablespoon butter and one tablespoon lard m stew 
pan, in which cook an onion sliced; add the bread 
remove, and add two eggs salt and pepper. Fdl 
breast, sew, and rub with salt, pepper and flour, add 
soup stock and roast one and one-half hours. 

MEAT CROQUETTES: , , ... . 

Take one cup each of chopped meat and boiled rice 

le teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, one 

- and two tablespoons of butter. Heat one-halt 

cup of milk; stir in all but egg. Beat egg thoroughly 

and stir in last. When cold mold and dip m cracker 

dust. Brown in lard. 



VEAL CHOP STEW: u i, ^c 

One-half tablespoon of butter m spider. Wash chops 
and season with pepper, salt and lemon juice. ihen 
stew chops until a little brown, adding water to suit 
and one tablespoon of flour to thicken. Chicken may 
be stewed same way without lemon. Serve witn 
noodles. 

STEWED LAMB WITH TURNIPS: ... t^ „ 

Slice turnips lengthwise and boil I. minutes. Dram 
and place with breast ot lamb in boilmg water. W hen 
famb^ IS tender, add flour, butter, salt and pepper. 
making a cream gravy to pour over lamb and turnips. 



Take two pounds of veal and one pound of pork 
ChoS the meit fine. To this add one pint of crackers 
roUed fine, three eggs, butter the size o an egg. one- 
half cup o milk, one teaspoon each of salt and pepper. 
Mix tSSroughly and roll into a soUd loaf. Cover with 
the cracker crumbs and put butter around it. Bake 
one and a half hours and baste. 

^%e°e^pounds veal and one pound of pork chopf>ed 
fine three e<^<-s one-half cup of milk. Season with 
Sne:fourS teTspoon each allspice and cloves, salt and 
Snper one onion chopped fine and celery. Five 
Emlsful of flour to mold into a loaf, put into a buttered 
pan add water and bake two or three hours. Slice 
and serve hot. 



"So.rnvo; and one-half P-f/^eStotlrr' cS^ 

made like baking powder biscuits are % ery 
this stew. Drop dumplmgs into tl^e kett • ^^. 
tightly and cook half an hour wienoui. 
Serve immediately. 




"cSf1L'Sn^^,nto pieces Put a m«e saU and 

£noU^rd^ah=o^„f rni;o^?LrHou*j 

Take ot? the cover towards the last it they do not 
brown well. 



" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER ELOUR." 



39 




TURKEY AND CHICKEN DRESSING: 

Soak bread in water or milk. Beat two eggs and 
add. Slice one- half onion and stew in one-half table- 
spoon of butter until yellow and pour over. Salt, 
pepper and parsley cut fine. 

BAKED BEEF TONGUE: 

Put salt tongue in kettle of boiling water, skim, add 
pepper, a little celery, a few cloves, an onion and any 
flavoring, spice or sage. Boil until tender. When 
peeled, sprinkle with bread crumbs, place in oven, 
basting with butter until a light brown. Make a 
rich brown gravy and pour over. 



MEAT CROQUETTES: 

Take two cups of cooked chopped meat, boil for a 
few minutes with a little water, salt and pepper. 
Mix one tablespoon of butter, and one of flour and stir 
into the mi.xture until it thickens. Add one beaten 
egg. Let cool and make into balls. Roll in egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

CROQUETTES: 

Take cold roast, chop fine, add one chopped onion, 
one slice of bread, a little milk, two eggs, salt and 
nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and form into balls. Roll 
in flour or cracker crumbs and fry in butter. 



VEAL AND TONGUE CHEESE: 

Take equal quantities of sliced boiled veal and 
sliced boiled tongue. Pound each in a mortar, adding 
butter meanwhile. Pack very solidly in alternate 
layers in a square mold and pour melted butter over 
the whole. Serve cold, sliced thin, after 24 hours. 

VEAL LOAF: 

Use two pounds chopped veal and three-fourths 
pound chopped salt pork. Add salt and pepper, two 
eggs and one dozen crackers rolled fine. Mold and 
bake one and one-half hours in buttered pan. Spread 
rolled crackers over top and have about a cup of water 
in the pan. 



SOUR BEEF: 

Use two pounds of rump beef and pound until 
tender. Place in dish and cover with vinegar, in 
which are two whole onions, with four allspice in each, 
a few laurel leaves and whole black peppers and let 
stand four days. Sprinkle flour and salt on the meat 
and place in roast pan, browning on both sides with 
butter; then add the above vinegar, weakened with 
water if desired, and steam until tender. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES: 

Take one-half pound of chicken, chopped fine, one 
teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of chopped celery, 
one-fourth teaspoon of cayenne pepper, one teaspoon 
onion juice, mixed thoroughly with one well beaten 
eajs:. Roll in cracker crumbs. 



" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 




40 




WILD DUCK AND DRESSING: 

After duck is picked and washed, take for each duck, 
one L'g^, one-half onion, chopped fane and stewed in 
one-half tablespoon butter. Pour this over soaked 
bread. Pepper, salt and parsley if desired. Do not 
fill duck completely with dressing. Place in roast pan 
with water and a little flour rubbed on duck. Half 
an hour before duck is done pour some wine on. 
Brown flour in separate spider with which to thicken 
the gravy. 

BEEF LOAF: 

Take two pounds of round steak and one-half pound 
of side pork. Put through your meat cutter; also 
ten crackers. Add one egg, one cup of water, salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix well, put into baking pan, 
over pour boiling water when you put into the oven. 
Bake two hours. Have pan about half full of gravy 
when done. Serve hot with mashed potatoes. 



RAGOUT: 

Brown one tablespoon flour and add enough boiling 
water to make thick gravy. Add a little salt, red 
pepper, bay leaf, mace, grated lemon, whole cloves, 
one-fourth cup vinegar and one-fourth cup sugar. 
Boil well. Then add catsup and Worcestershire sauce, 
strain and pour over cold meat cut into dice and let 
boil. Beef or lamb preferable. 

FRICATELLI: 

Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt, 
pepper and two small onions chopped fine. Half as 
much bread as ineat, soaked until soft, and mashed 
well. Add two eggs, mix well and make into oblong 
patties and fry. 



BEEF OR VEAL LOAF: 

Take one pound of chopped raw meat, one egg. one 
suce of bread, pepper, one-fourth pound salt pork, 
salt, mustard to taste and bake in bread tins, basting 
often. 

MEAT BRINE: 

Take three quarts of water, one pint of molasses, 
one pint of salt, one-half ounce of saltpeter, one-fourth 
ounce of soila. Dissolve in hot water and boil all. 
When cold pour over meat and let stand two weeks. 
This is enough for seven pounds of meat. 



SOUR RABBIT: 

Cut rabbit into pieces, put into a jar with vinegar, 
salt, pepper and sliced onions. Let stand a day or 
more. Then put on stove and boil until tender. Put 
a tablespoon of butter in a pan, let it get hot and 
brown a tablespoon of flour in this, very brown. Add 
to this a tablespoon of molasses. Put this with the 
meat and add one-half cup dried currants. These 
may be omitted if desired. 





FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

41 




TO ROAST ANY KIND OF MEAT: 

Put tablespoon of lard and butter into a kettle. 
Let get hot, then put in meat and cook for half an 
hour. Then take out and put into pan and finish 
cooking in oven. Add dressing if wished. Take old 
bread, soak in cold water, season with one onion, one- 
half cup butter, mi.K well and put with meat half an 
hour before done. 

PRESSED CHICKEN: 

Boil two chickens until tender. Remove the meat 
from the bones and chop fine. Boil the liquor down 
until it will jelly, season with salt and pepper, pour 
over the meat and mix well. Butter your pan, press 
the meat down and set aside in a cool place. Ready 
to use when cold. 

GOLLASH: 

Take 15 cents worth of veal brisket, chopped into 
small pieces. Put on to stew with enough water to 
cover well. Add pepper, salt, onion, one-fourth head 
of cabbage, one carrot sliced fine. About half an hour 
before serving add six potatoes cut into small pieces. 
When all is done, brown a tablespoon of flour in a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Add to the broth 
and serve. 

SCRAPPLE: 

Order the head of a pig, the heart, liver and kidneys 
and all of the lean pieces usually thrown aside when 
cutting up a hog. Cut away the jaw bone and teeth, 
the snout and gristly ears, wash the head and meat 
thoroughly and put into a big kettle with plenty of 
cold water and bring slowly to a boil. Skim care- 
fully, season with a little salt and pepper and cook 
until all the bones in the head fall apart. Then strain 
through a colander into another pot and keep the 
liquor hot on the back of the stove. Separate the 
meat from the bones, mince the meat finely and re- 
turn to the liquor, season highly with salt, pepper and 
sage. Again place over the fire and when at the 
boiling point sift in corn meal, stirring all the time. 
Add ineal to the consistency of thick mush. Many 
persons prefer part buckwheat and part corn meal 
in proportion of two parts of the latter to one of the 
former. Cook very slowly for nearly an hour, then 
turn the mixture into pan to cool. When ready to 
use cut into slices, roll in corn meal and fry brown. 
Serve hot. 

BAKED HAM: 

Soak ham for 24 hours in cold water, scrape and 
wash it well, then wipe it thoroughly dry. Make a 
dough of white flour and water thick enough to roll. 
Roll dough large enough to wrap around the ham. 
Then put the ham into a tin. Pour a little water 
into the tin and bake for about four hours in a hot oven. 





'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

42 




LAMB STEW: 

Stew a leg of lamb in plenty of water and when 
about half cooked add carrots, cauliflovver, some 
onions, peas and beans; when all are tender, thicken 
with a couple of spoons of flour. 



VENISON (SAUER): 

Cover four or five pounds of venison with vinegar 
and spices, consisting of two or three bay leaves, 
pepper salt, cloves and one large onion. Let it stand 
one day or more, then put on to stew with spices and 
vinegar and boil until tender. Brown a heaping 
tablespoon of flour till a very dark brown, add one- 
quarter of a teacup of dark syrup and a half a cup of 
sweet cream. If too thick add some of the vinegar 
the meat was cooked in. 



VEAL AND OYSTER PIE: 

Have a pound of veal cutlet cut in small pieces; 
roll these in flour and brown them in a little hot bacon 
fat; then cover them with boiling water, or preferably 
with stock (made from trimmings of meat, flavored 
with sweet herbs, carrots and onions) and simmer 
about two hours. Line the baking dish with pastry 
or biscuit dough (rolled thin). Put the pieces of veal 
in the lined dish, season and thicken as needed. Pour 
this over the meat in the dish. Have ready a pint 
of oysters, add them here and there with bits of butter. 
Cover with the bi.scuit crust and bake about 25 minutes. 
To serve four persons. 




'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 



43 






VEGETABLES. 
LETTUCE: 

Shred leaves of lettuce into small pieces. Add a 
very little salt, pepper and sugar. Pour over the 
lettuce a little hot ham fat or bacon fat. Add vinegai 
and sliced cold boiled eggs. 



STUFFED TOMATOES: 

Scoop out the centers o.'" tomatoes and stuff with 
the following dressing- One pint bread crumbs, one 
tablespoon chopped parsley one tablespoon grated 
onion, one-half teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons 
melted butter. Put tomatoes in a pan with one- 
half cup water and bake three-fourths of an hour in 
a moderate oven. 



BAKED BEANS: 

Put one quart of beans into a large kettle in plenty 
of cold water. Boil until tender. While still whole 
and firm skim them into your baking pan. Add one- 
half pound side pork one- third cup of brown sugar, 
a little salt and fill the pan with boiling water. Bake 
in a slow oven all day or longer. Keep the pan full 
of water, allowing it to dry away only at the last. 



STUFFED TOMATOES: 

Remove seeds and water of large half ripe tomatoes. 
Fill with cracker crumbs, butter and cream; salt and 
pepper. Sprinkle cracker crumbs on top and bake. 

POTATO CHIPS: 



Peel and slice one dozen large potatoes. Put into 
ice water with a piece of alum size of a walnut. Let 
stand two hours or more. Thoroughly dry and fry 
in hot lard. Drain on paper and sprinkle with salt^ 



SCALLOPPED POTATOES: 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin, the same as for 
frying. Butter a baking dish and put in potatoes. 
Before putting in the oven, pour over hot milk enough 
to cover, that has been thickened with two tablespoons 
of butter and one of flour, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 



"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

46 



BAKED BEANS: 

Pick over carefully a quart and a half of beans that 
have been soaked over night. In the morning wash 
and drain in another water; put on to boil in cold 
water. When the skins open, if you blow upon them, 
add half a teaspoon of soda and boil a few minutes 
longer and then drain. Take a thin slice of fat pork 
and place in the bottom of the bean pot. Put in 
about one-half of the beans; then put in one-half or 
three-quarters of a pound of well washed pork with 
the rind cut into pieces. Put in the rest of the beans. 
Add to this a small onion, grated or sliced very fine, 
one teaspoon of ground mustard, two or three table- 
spoons of brown sugar or molasses and a little pepper. 
Cover all with hot water and bake six hours or longer 
in a moderate oven. Keep covered so they will not 
burn on the top.- If pork is not liked, use a little 
butter instead. This makes one gallon. 
POTATO A LA PEAS: 



Boil and mash potatoes the usual way. When 
cooled off mix in one egg and shape either with hand 
or drop with spoon enough potato to make a form as 
large around as a teacup. Then make a hole in the 
center. Have a well buttered pie tin ready to put 
them in. Put small bits of butter on top and bake 
in a hot oven. Prepare the peas as follows : Melt half 
a tablespoon of butter in a spider, stir in one small 
tablespoon of flour and put in a can of peas slowly. 
Season and when potatoes are slightly brown, fill the 
hole with peas. Serve on individual plates if desired. 



SWEDISH RICE: 

One-half cup rice washed in hot water and drained. 
Add a pinch of salt, one stick cinnamon and boil until 
nearly done. Then add one tablespoon sugar, one- 
half to one cup of milk or enough to make it quite 
thm and a good handful of flour. Let it boil up again. 
To be served with cream and sugar. 



SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES: 

Boil potatoes, mash very fine, add salt, pepper and 
one egg. Mold into funnel shape and dip into egg 
and cracker crumbs and brown in butter. Serve hot. 



CREAMED ASPARAGUS: 

Clean asparagus, wash and boil until tender. Brown 
slightly one tablespoon of flour, the same of butter, 
stir in enough of the water in Which the asparagus 
was boiled to make a smooth gravy. Put asparagus 
in this gra\^ and before serving add the beaten yolk 
of one egg and two tablespoons of rream. A pinch 
of nutmeg may be added if desired. 




'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 

47 




POTATO CROQUETTES: 

Take two cups of mashed potatoes, two table- 
spoons of milk, one teaspoon of onion juice, one level 
teaspoon salt, a little pepper, yolks of two eggs, butter 
size of a walnut. Beat yolks until light, add the 
potatoes and then the other ingredients. Turn into 
a saucepan. Stir until mixture leaves sides of pan. 
Remove, form and fry in hot fat. 

ESCALOPED ONIONS: 

Take five or six good sized onions, slice them and 
boil until tender. Lay them in a buttered baking 
dish, put in bread crumbs, butter in small bits, pepper 
and salt between each layer, putting bread crumbs 
last. Add milk or cream to cover. Bake 20 or ?>0 
minutes. 
BAKED BEANS: 

One pint beans, one onion cut fine, pepper and salt, 
one-fourth cup molasses or syrup, a large spoon butter 
or lard, one spoon catsup, a piece of bacon and cover 
well with hot water. Bake in an earthen jar or bowl 
and cover with the lid. Bake about 10 hours in a 
slow oven. Do not soak beans. 

POTATO PUFFS: 

Use mashed potatoes while hot, fprming balls about 
the size of an egg. Place on a buttered tin. Brush 
all over with beaten eggs and set in oven to brown. 
Serve immediately on hot platter, garnished with 
parsley. 
FRIED PARSNIPS: 

Boil until tender, scrape off skin, and cut into slices. 
Put them in dripping pan with roast beef, when nearly 
done. Allow them to brown. Serve in separate dish. 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS: 

Peel and slice three large cucumbers. Sprinkle 
well with salt and let stand an hour. Drain off the 
j uice. Add two small onions, sliced, and cove.r with 
water. Add a little more salt. Let stand \S or 20 
minutes. Drain and add vinegar and pepper to taste. 
POTATO BARS: 

Peel and soak the potatoes over night in cold salt 
water. Wipe dry, cut into half-inch bars, dry, coat 
with flour, and fry in hot fat. Drain on brown paper 
and salt them. 

DEVILED TOMATOES: 

Take six large red tomatoes. Pour boiling water 
over them and peel. Remove the inside, being careful 
not to break the outside. Take out the seed and to 
the pulp add a bunch of chopped celery, one hard 
boiled egg, salt and pepper, one-eighth of head of 
cabbage, and one-half cup of English walnuts. Pour 
over this one-half cup of Mayonnaise dressing. Fill 
each tomato shell and serve. Leave tomato shell on 
ice until ready to serve. 




FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 

48 




CREAM POTATOES WITH CHEESE: 

Add two cups baked or boiled potatoes, diced, and 
a heaping tablespoon grated cheese to a cream dressing 
made as'foUows; One-half tablespoon butter, and one 
tablespoon Daniel Webster flour, two cups of milk. 
Put into baking dish, spread brown cracker crumbs 
over top and heat through in oven. 

BAKED BEANS: 

One quart beans soaked over night. Boil until 
skins crack when blown on. Add pinch of soda and 
drain. Put in a quarter pound salt pork with rind 
slashed, two tablespoons molasses and a little salt. 
Cover with hot water and bake all day and all night. 




BAKED CORN: 

Use fresh cut or canned corn. Put into a baking 
pan layers of corn and crackers or bread crumbs. 
Sedson with salt, pepper and butter. Fill the pan 
with milk and bake an hour or longer. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN: 

Take three cups of mashed potatoes left from dinner. 
Put them into a dish over the stove with half a cup 
of milk and salt to season. Stir until warm. Then 
beat until white and foamy. Add to this the whites 
of three eggs, well beaten. Put into a baking dish 
and scatter over the top cracker crumbs and small 
pieces of butter. Bake for 20 minutes until nicely- 
brown over top. Serve at once. 



CREAM POTATOES: 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice. Put a little 
cream on the fire and when it is nearly boiling, thicken 
with a little flour, rubbed smooth with a little cold 
milk. Put in the potatoes and let them boil till 
thickened. Add salt, pepper and butter while cooking 



SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS, CAULIFLOWER, OR KOHLRABI: 

( >ne cup milk, one tablespoon each flour and sugar ,^ 
a little nutmeg. Boil; when removed from stove add 
the well beaten yolk of one egg. 



BOILED RICE: 

Rice should be carefully picked over and washed in 
warm water, rubbed between the hands and rinsed 
several times in cold water until white. Put one 
teacupful in a tin pan or porcelain kettle. Add one 
quart boiling water and boil 20 minutes, not stirring, 
but taking care that it does not bum. Add one tea- 
spoon salt. Pour into dish and send to the table, 
placing a lump of butter in the center. Cooking thus, 
tlie kernels remain whole. 



'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

49 




LIMA BEANS (DRIED): 

Soak one pint beans in water over night. In 
morning drain off water and cover with fresh water. 
Two hours before dinner time drain again, cover with 
boiUng soft water and boil 30 minutes. Drain again, 
cover with fresh boiUng soft water. Add one-eighth 
teaspoon soda and boil until tender. Drain, season 
with salt, pepper, one tablespoon butter and one-half 
pint cream. Let them b(jil up once and serve. 

CORN OYSTERS: 

One can corn, two beaten eggs, one teaspoon salt, 
pepper, Daniel Webster flour to make thin batter. 
Put one teaspoon each lard and butter into frying pan. 
Drop batter from spoon and fry light brown. 
FRIED CUCUMBERS: 

Take six green cucumbers and slice one-quarter inch 
thick lengthwise. Dip in flour, season with salt and 
pepper and fry slowly in beef drippings and butter. 
Turn several times until they are crisp. 

POTATO CROQUET: 

Mash potato, salt and pepper to taste; if desired 
add a little parsley. Roll potatoes into small balls, 
cover with egg and roll in cracker crumbs; then fry 
in hot lard for about two minutes. 

CORN RAGOUT: 

Cut scraps of ham or bacon in small squares; fry 
brown; six ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced and the 
grains from six ears of corn, cover with boiling water, 
season with red pepper and cook slowly half an hour. 
Serve hot with toast or slices of fried bread. 

ESCALOPED CABBAGE: 

Take one-half of a head of cabbage, cut fine. Boil 
until tender and drain. Make a sauce of two table- 
spoons butter and one of Daniel Webster flour rubbed 
to a paste. Add one-half pint of hot milk, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook for a few minutes. Put into 
a baking dish a layer of the cabbage, then the sauce 
and a layer of grated bread crumbs. Fill dish in this 
manner. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes. 




'FOK BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

50 



PICKLES, JELLIES AND SAUCES: 

If you find your jellies are becoming candied, put a 
layer of pulverized suijar a quarter of an inch deep 
on top, under the paper and they will keep in good 
condition for years. 




MIXED PICKLES: 

Use cucumbers, musk melons, green tomatoes and 
green peppers. Cut into small pieces and put into 
weak brine for 48 hours. Then place in colander to 
drain. Pour on warm water and drain again. Scald 
and pour over one quart of vinegar, one ounce of 
turmeric, two ounces of white mustard seed, a little 
black pepper, one tablespoon ground mustard, one 
pint of brown sugar. 

SWEET PICKLE FOR APPLES, PEACHES OR PEARS: 

Boil together one quart vinegar and three pounds 
of brown sugar. Stick four or five cloves into each 
fruit, boiling in above until tender. Place in stone 
jar, pour boiling liquid over and cover closely. Suf- 
ficient for one peck of fruit. 

PICKLED PEPPERS: 

Cut out the stem end of each pepper and take out 
the seeds; put in salt and water over night. Chop 
two quarts of cabbage and add one-half cup of white 
inustard seed, one teaspoon of celery seed, two table- 
spoons salt. Fill the peppers with this mixture. Put 
the end of the pepper in place and fasten with thread. 
Place in jar and pour boiling vinegar over them. 

CANNED CUCUMBERS: 

Peel and slice two dozen large cucumbers as for 
the table. Mix well with salt and let stand over night. 
Next morning squeeze them out of the brine and wash 
through several waters. Put on the stove to boil 
one-half gallon of vinegar and one large red pepper 
cut into pieces. When vinegar is hot put in your 
cucumbers. Let them just heat through. Dip out 
into your cans and seal. 

ONION JUICE: 

Slice onions and lay them down in salt, usmg first a 
layer of salt, etc. until the ingredients are all used up. 
This will keep a long time and is splendid for seasoning. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER: 

Break the heads into small pieces and boil 10 or 
15 minutes in salt water. Remove from the water and 
drain carefully. When cold place in a jar and pour 
over it hot vinegar, in which has been scalded a liberla 
supply of whole cloves, pepper, allspice and white 
mustard. Tie the spices in a bag and on rernovmg 
the vinegar from the fire stir into each quart of it two 
teaspoons of French mustard and half a cup of white 
sugar. Cover tightly and be sure to have the vmegar 
cover the pickle. 




'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 

51 




CHOW CHOW: 

One-half peck of green tomatoes, two large heads 
of cabbage, 15 onions, 25 cucumbers one pint of grated 
horseradish, one-half pmt of white mustard seed, one 
ounce of celery seed, two of turmeric, one of black 
pepper., two of ground cinnamon and one-quarter 
pound of ground mustard. Take tomatoes, onions 
cabbage, cucuinbers and chop fine, salt and let stand 
over night. Drain well and put into a large jar and 
cover with vinegar and water. Let remain three days 
and drain. Boil two gallons of vinegar and four 
pounds of sugar together; then put in all the spices 
except the ground mustard. Pour hot vinegar over 
and mix well. Wet mustard with a little vinegar 
and when pickle is nearly cold add mustard and you 
have chow chow that is good. 



SWEET PICKLED PEACHES: 

Take three pints of vinegar, five pounds of sugar, 
seven pounds of fruit, one ounce cloves (tie in a cloth) 
and two ounces of cinnamon. Pour boiling water over 
medium sized peaches and pare with silver knife. 
Drop the peaches into boiling syrup, avoid crowding 
and when easily pierced with a silver fork, cover with 
boiling sj'rup. Put in jars and seal. 



CHILI SAUCE: 

Take twelve large ripe tomatoes, four ripe or three 
green peppers, two onions, two tablespoons salt, two 
of sugar, one of cinnamon, three cups of vinegar. 
Peel- tomatoes and onions. Chop (separately) very 
fine. Add the peppers (chopped) with the other 
ingredients and boil one and a half hours. Bottle 
and it will keep a long time. 



PICKLED CUCUMBERS: 

Put cucumbers into strong salt brine over nif.ht. 
Then put into cold white vinegar and water (half and 
half). Add alum size of a walnut to a peck of small 
cucumbers. Then let come to a boil. Drain, put 
into jars, add white mustard seed, a tablespoonful to 
a quart. Then pour over boiling syrup and seal 
airtight. 

SYRUP: 

One cup sugar and two cups cider vinegar. 

CHILI SAUCE: 

Take twelve large ripe tomatoes, three green peppers, 
the seeds taken out, three onions, three tablespoons 
each of salt and sugar. Peel tomatoes and onions 
and chop (separately) very fine. Chop peppers. 
Add to the other ingredients and boil one and one- 
half hours. 




'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST.' 

52 



TOMATO CATSUP: 

Take one peck of tomatoes cut into pieces, five 
good sized onions, cut, good handful mixed spices 
(cloves, cinnamon bark, cardamon seeds and black- 
peppers) and one small cup salt. Boil until it com- 
mences to thicken, then strain through sieve. Add 
two cups sugar and boil until quite thick. Then take 
one quart vinegar and one-half cup ground mustard. 
Rub the mustard smooth in part of the vinegar. Add 
all and let boil until thick enough. Put into bottles 
and seal. 




MUSTARD CHOW CHOW: 




Use 18 large green tomatoes, one sniall cabbage, 
one dozen onions. Chop these and put in brine over 
night. In the morning drain. Add two ounces white 
mustard seed, one-ha'f ounce turmeric two ounces 
celery seed, three-fourths pound mustard, two and a 
half pounds sugar (brown) six little cayenne peppers. 
Mix well and cover with vinegar and cook till done 
(about two hours.) 

CHILI SAUCE: 

Take one-half peck ripe tomatoes, three medium 
sized onions and one green pepper. Chop fine. Take 
one and a half cups of sugar, one tablespoon of celery 
seed and one each of mustard seed and salt and one 
teaspoon of ground celery. Boil until thick. When 
nearly done add one or one and a half cups of vinegar 
(to suit taste). 



CHUTNEY SAUCE: 

Take 12 green sour apples, two green peppers, six 
green tomatoes, four small onions, one cup raisins, 
one quart vinegar, two tablespoons mustard seeds, 
two tablespoons salt, one of powdered sugar, two cups 
white or brown sugar. Seed raisins and peppers, add 
tomatoes and onions and chop all fiine. Boil vinegar, 
sugar, spices and chopped mixture. Then simmer 
one hour. Add the apple, pared and cored. Cook 
slowly until soft. Seal in bottles. This makes two 
quarts. 



PICKLES: 

Place small cucumbers in salt water over night. 
Dry off and place in hot vinegar and water (half and 
half) with a piece of alum. Remove to jar and when 
half full put in one tablespoon mustard seed and one 
heaping tablespoon brown sugar. Placel the same 
amount on top. Pour hot vinegar over all. 



PICALILi: 

One peck of green tomatoes, eight large onions, 
chopped fine. Mix in one cup salt and let stand over 
night. Drain and add two quarts of water, one quart 
of vinegar. Boil 20 minutes and drain again. Add 
two quarts of vinegar, one and a half pounds of sugar, 
one-half pound of white mustard seed, two table- 
spoons of ground pepper, two of cinnamon, one of 
cloves, two of ginger, one of allspice, one-half teaspoon 
red pepper. Boil all for 15 minutes. Seal in glass 
jars. 



"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 

53 




MIXED PICKLES: 

Take string beans, cook until tender, salt to taste, 
two quarts of small cucumbers, sliced quart of whole 
cucumbers, two quarts of small onions, three heads of 
cauliflower, two green peppers, chopped fine. Soak 
all separately in salt water over night; in the morning 
cook all separately in the same water until tender. 
DRESSING: 

One gallon of good vinegar 1 2 tablespoons of ground 
mustard, two small cups of flour, three cups of brown 
sugar, five cents worth of turmeric. Heat the vinegar 
or let it boil up well, add all the prepared vegetables 
and stir thoroughly until all are heated through. 

CHILI SAUCE (UNCOOKED): 

Take one-half peck tomatoes, chopped; two red 
peppers, chopped; one cup horseradish grated. Three 
heads celery, cut small; one cup onion, chopped; one 
small cup salt; one-half cup white mustard seed; 
one-half cup black mustard seed, two tablespoons of 
white pepper and two teaspoons of cinnamon; one 
teaspoon each ground cloves and mace; one cup 
sugar; one quart vinegar; mi.\ well and. let stand 
for several hours; then put into glass jars. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES: 

Take one hundred medium sized cucumbers, two 
quarts small onions, small sack table salt, three ounces 
white mustard seeds, a piece of alum size of small nut, 
one ounce celery seed, small bottle of salad oil. Slice 
cucumbers quite thin, sprinkle salt over them and let 
stand three hours, then drain. Slice onions separately, 
sprinkle salt over them and let them drain and then 
mix with the cucumbers. Put all together into a 
large pan. Mix together thoroughly and add enough 
cider vmegar to cover them nicely. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR PORK CHOPS OR TONGUE: 

Use one-half can of tomatoes, one small onion, two 
cloves, one bay leaf, a few whole peppers and salt. 
Cook until soft and press through a sieve. Take a 
piece of butter, the size of an egg, cook it with a sinall 
spoonful of flour and add to the tomatoes. 

TOMATO SAUCE: 

Boil one can of tomatoes with five cloves, two slices 
onion, bay leaf, salt, pepper, pinch cayenne pepper 
and strain. Brown one tablespoon of butter slightly. 
Stir in good tablespoon of flour; add tomatoes and 
boil a few minutes. This, served with croquettes, 
makes a good dish. 




'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

?4 




MUSTARD PICKLES: 

Put in salt water over night very small cucumbers, 
small pieces of cauliflower, small onions, sliced green 
tomatoes and some string beans. Next inorning 
drain the salt water off and let stand two hours, then 
drain again. Then put the pickles in a kettle with 
enough vinegar to cover, and some mixed spices, a 
cup of sugar, to a gallon of pickles. Let it cook about 
one-half of an hour, then take off and let stand until 
real cold. To a gallon of pickles use five cents worth 
of ground mustard made into a paste with a little water. 
Add this to the gallon of pickles and stir until thorough- 
ly mixed. These will keep in stone jars without sealing 
them. 



RED RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JAM: 

Take three-fourths pound of sugar to one of fruit, 
a scant pint of water to four pounds of fruit. Boil 
30 minutes. Add sugar and boil 20 minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE: 

Wash and slice very thin six oranges, leaving out 
the seeds; add to each pound of fruit three pints of 
■water; let stand 24 hours; then boil till tender. When 
cold add to each pint of the "stuff" two-thirds as 
much sugar; boil slowly one and three-fourths hours; 
add the juice of two lemons and boil one-fourth of an 
hour longer. 

SPICED CURRANTS: 

For one gallon of currants use one pint of vinegar, 
three coffee cups of sugar, two packages of seedless 
raisins, two even tablespoons allspice, two of cinnamon 
and one of ground cloves. Cook about one and one- 
half hours. 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE: 

For four pounds of ripe or green gooseberries, use 
four pounds of sugar for ripe and five for green; four 
large oranges from which the pulp is squeezed and 
one-half (or all if thin) rind boiled in water until 
tender, then chopped fine. Add one and one-half 
pounds of seeded, chopped raisins and boil 20 or 30 
minutes. This makes 1-i glasses. 




"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST.' 



55 




SPICED CURRANTS: 

Take three quarts of currants, three pounds of 
sugar, one and one-half pints of vinegar, one and one- 
half tablespoons ground cinnamon, one and one-half 
of ground cloves and one nutmeg. Make syrup of 
sugar, vinegar and spices and boil fruit in it for half 
an hour or longer. Let it get quite thick. 
APPLE JELLY: 

Cut good sound cooking apples into quarters. Do- 
not peel or core. Nearly cover with water. Boil 
until soft and mushy; strain through jelly bag; 
ineasure juice and put back on stove to boil. Let it 
cook 20 minutes after it starts to boil. For every 
quart of juice add a quart of sugar. Boil a few minutes, 
until well jellied, when tested by putting a little in a 
saucer and setting it on ice. 

ORANGE MARMALADE: 

Take twelve oranges, si.x lemons, weighed and sliced 

(with rind, removing seeds) very thin, and to each 

pound allow three pounds of cold water. Pour over 

fruit and let stand 24 hours. Then boil one hour, or 

until fruit is tender. Let stand again 24 hours. 

Weigh and allow one pound of sugar to each pound 

of fi-uit. Boil until it jellies, about one hour. 
TOMATO PRESERVES: 

Scald and peel carefully small, yellow, pear-shaped 
tomatoes, not too ripe. Add an equal amount of 
rugar by weight. Let lie over night; then pour off 
all the ju ce nto a preserving kettle. Let boil and 
pour over tomatoes. Do this three mornings. Last 
morning let syrup boil until thick, clarifying with 
white of an egg. Add tomatoes and boil until they 
look transparent. Lemon sliced thin and cooked 
with fruit may be added. 





"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



56 




"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 

58 







SALADS. 

CHICKEN SALAD: 

Boil three cliickens until tender, salting them to 
taste. When cold cut into small pieces and add 
twice the quantity of celery (cut up with knife, not 
chopped), and four cold boiled eggs, sliced and 
thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients. 

DRESSING: 

Put on the stove one pint of vinegar and butter the 
size of an egg. Beat two or three eggs, with two 
tablespoons of mustard, one of black pepper, two of 
sugar and a teaspoon of salt. When beaten together 
pour slowly into the vinegar, until it thickens. Do 
not boil too long. When cold pour over chicken. 
Add lemon juice to improve flavor. 



EGG SALAD: 

Take one and one-half dozen hard boiled eggs, put 
yolks through ricer in salad dish. Then take whites 
and put them through ricer and lay around yolks. 
Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over all. 

DRESSING FOR SAME: 

Take eight tablespoons^ of vinegar, one tablespoon 
sugar and sprinkle a little salt into this, one table- 
spoon dry mustard, one-half teaspoon white pepper, 
butter the size of a walnut. Boil and pour over 
yolks of three eggs. Beat until cold and when ready 
to use add one cup of sweet cream. Mix and pour 
over. 



FRUIT SALAD: 

Take equal parts of celery and apple, grapes cut 
into halves and seeded, English walnuts cut up, apples 
and celery diced. Everv^thing should be cold. Put 
together just before serving and pour salad dressing 
over it . 

POTATO SALAD: 

Cook potatoes with jackets on; salt while cooking; 
use one cup cream, sour or sweet, only thick; one- 
half cup vinegar, one teaspoon salt and a little pepper. 
Let this come to a boil. Chop one medium onion and 
mi.K with the potatoes; then put on the dressing and 
let stand from 15 minutes to one hour. 



FRUIT SALAD: 

Use one slice fresh or canned pineapple, placed on 
a little lettuce cut into shreds, two or three candied 
cherries, one large spoonful of Malaga grapes cut into 
half and seeds taken out,. Serve with Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD: 

Use equal parts of chicken and celery and chopped 
English walnuts. Take three eggs, one cup weak 
vinegar, one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon mustard, 
one-fourth teaspoon red pepper, two tablespoons sugar. 
Break egg in bowl, add seasoning, then vinegar scalding 
hot, stirring all the time. Put into double boiler and 
cook like custard. When nearly cold add one table- 
spoon melted butter; whip until cold. When you 
use, add juice of one lemon and one cup of cream. 

"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



59 




A GOOD DRESSING FOR ANY SALAD: 

Beat the yolks of four or else three whole eggs into 
one cup of boiling milk, having added one-half cup of 
butter and one-half cup of sug'ar. Beat well together 
and add a Httle cold water to the eggs before beating. 
Boil one-half cup of vinegar. Add to the other mix- 
ture and keep on stirring. Salt to taste; a pinch of 
pepper. This will keep for months. If too thick 
after standing add a little cream. 
SALAD DRESSING: 

Take one tablespoon of melted butter, one table- 
spoon of sugar, one egg beaten well. Add si.x table- 
spoons of vinegar and mix. Set on a stove and boil 
a few minutes, stirring briskly. Add cream when cold. 

SALAD CREAM DRESSING: 

Use one cup cream, one tablespoon flour, whites of 

two eggs beaten stitT, three tablespoons vinegar, one 

teaspoon salt, two tablespoons oil or butter, one-half 

teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon made mustard. Heat 

cream almost to boiling, then stir in flour wet with 

cold milk. Boil two minutes, stirring all the time. 

Add sugar and take from fire. When half cold beat 

in whipped white of eggs. When quite cold whip in 

the oil or butter, pepper, salt and mustard. If the 

salad is ready add vinegar and pour over it at once. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING: 

To the beaten yolks of two eggs add one-half tea- 
spoon salt and mustard, a bit of pepper, two table- 
spoons sugar dissolved in one-half cup vinegar and a 

small piece of butter. Cook until thick. Add whipped 

cream when you use it. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING: 

Use one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, dash of cayenne pepper, yolks of 
three eggs, juice of half a lemon, one-fourth cup of 
vinegar, a pint of oil and one cup of whipped cream. 
Beat yolks of eggs and the dry ingredients until they 
are very light and thick, placing bowl in pan of ice 
water. Add oil, a few drops at a time, until the 
dressing becomes very thick. Then add more rapidly, 
alternating with vinegar. When the oil and vinegar 
have been added, the lemon juice and cream should 
be put in. 
CABBAGE SALAD: 

One quart of finely chopped white cabbage, one- 
half a cup of sugar, one-half a cup vinegar, one-half a 
cup of cream, whipped stiff, salt and pepper. 

SALAD DRESSING: 

Four eggs, one tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon 

salt, one tablespoon of mustard, one and one-half 

tablespoons butter, one cup of cream, one cup of 

vinegar. Put all except vinegar into a double boiler 

and stir until it begins to steam, add vinegar and beat 

fast until it thickens. Then take off and stir until 

almost cool. 




"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



60 



POTATO SALAD: 

Take seven good sized potatoes and boil them with 
their skins on, then let cool, peel and slice them very 
thin. Take one jnedium onion and slice very thin; 
then take three slices of fat bacon and cut it up in 
dice shape and dry, and when done skim out the 
bacon, drop in the onions for a minute, salt and pepper 
the potatoes, add one teaspoon of sugar, vinegar and 
water enough ot suit the taste. 




GRAPE NUT SALAD: 

One cup each of di6ed celery and apples, four dessert 
spoons of grape nuts and one-half cupful of broken 
walnut meats. j\Iix all with a salad dressing made as 
follows: Bring to a boil about one-fourth pint of 
vinegar; then add to it a fourth of a cup of butter 
and again bring to a boil. In the meantime beat the 
3-olks of three eggs and a fourth cup of sugar, a pinch 
of salt and about a quarter of a teaspoon of mustard 
mixed with a little warm water to keep it from lump- 
i ng. Add all to the boiling vinegar and butter pouring 
in slowly and stirring constantly, cooking until thick. 
Wien cold, thin with cream. 



FRENCH DRESSING: 

Use two whole eggs, two yolks, one-half cup vinegar, 
two tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
small piece of butter, pinch of red pepper if desired. 
Beat the two whole eggs and the two yolks with the 
sugar until light and creamy. In the meantime heat 
the vinegar with the butter. Let come to a boil and 
add the beaten yolks. Boil till thick, stirring all the 
time. Cool and thin with plain or whipped cream 
and pour over salad. 

SALMOND SALAD: 

Use one can salmon, two tablespoons celery chopped 
fine, four olives or pickles chopped, three tablespoons 
salad dressing, one-half cup whipped cream and a 
little salt and pepper. 



FRUIT SALAD: 

Use a little more than half a package of gelatine, 
soak in a cup of cold water one hour, add the juice 
of two lemons and a coffee cup of sugar. Take juice 
of one can of pineapple and bring it to a boiling heat 
with a teacup of boiling water. Pour this into sweet- 
ened gelatine and three oranges cut fine and nearly 
a can of pineapples chopped. Set in a cool place or 
on ice to harden. Nuts may be added if desired. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD: 

Take one pair of sweetbreads, unc bunch celery, 
one-half pound English walnuts. Mayonnaise dressing. 
Wash the sweetbreads carefully, removing all mem- 
branes. Let them remain on cold water 15 minutes. 
Then drop them into boiling salt water and boil one- 
half hour. When cool wipe dry and mince fine. Cut 
the celery into small pieces; shell the nuts and boil 
the nuts a few minutes in salt water. Then throw 
them into cold water to harden. Drain and chop 
fine. Mix nuts, celery and sweetbreads and coxtr 
with Mayonnaise dressing. 




"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST.' 



61 




CHICKEN SALAD: 

Take one chicken or breast of four and the whites 
of twelve hard boiled eggs, cut into small squares. 
Mash the yolks of the eggs add two tablespoons oi 
mustard, pinch of cayenne pepper, one cup of vinegar, 
one cup melted butter, salt and pepper. 
SALMON SALAD: 

Use one can salmon, two cups chopped cabbage 
and four jnckles. Mayonnaise dressing. 
DRESSING: 

Boil six tablespoons of vinegar into this stir three 
well beaten eggs. Boil until it thickens Then add 
four tablespoons of sugar, one of butter, pepper and 
salt. When cold pour over the salmon. 

POTATO SALAD: 

Boil potatoes with jackets, peel, when almost cold 

slice very fine. On every layer of potatoes strew a 

little pepper and salt For one gallon of salad, use 

one medmm sized onion, cut fine, one tablespoon 

sugar and three large tablespoons of rendered bacon. 

A few spoons of fat of chicken or any poultry improves 

the taste. Pour over one pint of half water and half 

vinegar and mi.\ lightly and put in a warm place for 

an hour. 

VEGETABLE SALAD: 

Take six good sized potatoes, boiled and sliced 

thin, three-fourths cup finely chopped cabbage, three 

tablespoons chopped pickles, two chopped onions 

and two chopped apples, yolks of three hard boiled 

eggs pounded fine, a green pepper cut fine, butter 

the size of an egg, one tablespoon flour. Chop all 

separately; then mix and pour over the following 

dressing; One teaspoon celery salt, one of salt, a 

little pepper, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup vinegar, 

one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon Worcestershire 

sauce. Put butter and vinegar on the stove. When 

warm add the other ingredients and let come to a boil, 

stirring constantly. Draw back and add the well 

beaten yolks of two eggs, continuing the stirring until 

it thickens. 

POTATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD: 

In cucumber season pare and slice cucumbers 
and sprinkle with salt and let them stand for three 
hours. Then drain them, pack them into jars with 
mustard seed and cayenne pepper, fill the jars with 
vinegar and cover the top with plenty of oil. Use 
with potato salad. Mixed sliced potatoes, chopped, 
with cucumbers, hard boiled eggs, a little onion juice 
with salad dressing. 

PEACH SALAD: 

Peel peaches and cut into small pieces. Mix with 
blanched almonds and dressing. Serve at once on 
nasturtium leaves. 




'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



62 




TONGUE SALAD: 

Cut boiled tongue into dice, add whites of six hard 
boiled eggs cut into similar pieces. Cut fine the stalks 
of three heads of celery. Mix the tongue and eggs. 
Make boiled salad dressing and pour over, mixing it 
well. 

EGG SALAD: 

Chop the whites of four hard boiled eggs; mix with 
four tablespoons of Mayonnaise dressing. Press the 
yolks of four eggs through a potato ricer; mix with 
five tablespoons of Mayonnaise dressing. Mold, chill, 
and remove from mold and serve on lettuce leaves. 



SALMON SALAD: 

Take one can of salmon picked into pieces; add 

two cups of chopped celery, two hard boiled eggs 

chopped, pinch of salt; cover with salad dressing. 

DRESSING: 

Take the yolks of four eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, 
a little warm vinegar, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, 
one tablespoon butter, four dessert spoons of sugar. 
When heated pour over the mixture. When cool 
add cream desired. 

TOMATO SALAD: 

Cook one can of tomatoes with sprig of parsley, 
small bay leaf and six pepper corns 20 minutes. Add 
one teaspoonful salt and rub through sieve. Add one- 
half box gelatine which has been soaked in one-half 
cup cold water until soft. Mould, chill and serve on 
lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise dressing. 



CHEESE SALAD: 

Small cakes of cottage cheese, serve in a bed of 
shredded lettuce,. Cover with Mayonnaise dressing 
and garnish with crescent olives. 

MUSHROOM SALAD: 

Two cans mushrooms, boil till tender, which will 
take about five minutes. Cut in small pieces, then 
season with pepper and salt. Pour over a mixture of 
vinegar and oil in proportion of one tablespoon of oil 
to three of vinegar. Let stand two hours. 

When ready to serve add one-half the quantity of 
celery cut in pieces the same size as the mushrooms 
and pour over all a Mayonnaise dressing. 





'^Jlk'^' 



'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST.' 



63 




DESSERTS. 

PLUM PUDDING: 

One pound each of raisins and currants, a half 
pound of citron, one pound of suet chopped fine, six 
eggs, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, half 
a teaspoon of cloves, half a teaspoon of allspice, half 
a teaspoon of cinnamon, one cup of brown sugar, 
flour. 

CREAM PUDDING: 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one-half a cup 
of hike warm water. Whip one pint of sweet cream, 
add three-fourths cup of powdered sugar, the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Strain the dissolved gelatine into the cream, 
sugar and eggs and beat all together until it thickens. 
Then fill cups in which you ha\-e had cold water and 
set away to cool. Serve with fruit juice. 

SCHAUM TORTE: 

Whip whites of six eggs with one cup of powdered 

sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla, brown lightly, serve 

with whipped cream. 

SNOW BALLS: 

To be served with orange marmalade or rich pre- 
serves. One-half a cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 

one-half a cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of 

four eggs, well beaten, two teaspoons of baking powder. 

Steam in cups about 20 minutes and dust with fine 

sugar. •• 

ROSETTES: 

The batter is made of four eggs one pint of sweet 
milk, two teaspoons of sugar. Whip the eggs well and 
put in enough flour to make the batter as thin as 
batter for pancakes. To be filled with whipped cream. 
FRUIT BALLS: 

Chop two ounces of beef suet rather fine, having 
first freed it from shreds; add to this twice the quantity 
of bread crumbs — that is after you have chopped the 
suet. Add the white of an egg, one-half a cup of 
currants, one-half cup of chopped raisins, and a few 
pieces of citron. Form into balls the size of walnuts. 
If you find them dry add the white of another egg. 
Have a kettle of boiling water, drop in and cook 
slowly until they come to the surface. Lift carefully 
with a skimmer and pour over a rich sauce. The 
yolks left from the balls may be used for sauce. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. " 

66 



OATMEAL PUDDING: 

About two cups of boiled oatmeal that has been 
left from breakfast: thin with milk and beat well. 
Add two well beaten eggs and a half a cup of currants. 
Flavor with nutmeg and bake in a well buttered pan 
until brown- 

DATE TORTL: 

Beat one pound of powdered sugar, with yolks of 
12 large eggs, add one-half pound of chopped dates, 
one and one-half teaspoons each of cinnamon and 
allspice, two sticks of grated chocolate, juice and 
rind of one lemon, eight soda crackers, rolled fine, 
stiffly beaten whites of 12 eggs, added last 

COFFEE PARFAIT: 

One pint of cream, well whipped, two eggs, one- 
half a cup of coffee, just as left from breakfast, one- 
half a cup of sugar. Boil .coffee and sugar until it 

hairs. Put in the yolks of eggs well beaten; cook 

until it thickens a little; pour over the beaten whites 

when cold; stir in the whipped cream. Put in dish 

and pack with ice. Xo freezer necessary. This will 

serve eight people, 

STEAMED CUP CUSTARD: 

Two eggs beaten well, one-half a cup of sugar, four 

small cups of milk, little nutmeg. Put in cups and 

steam until it is thick, when you put a knife in. This 

will make four large or five small cups. 
SAND TORTE: 

One pound of butter, one pound of powdered sugar, 
eight eggs, whip to a cream, one pound of flour. Must 
bake slow for one hour. 
PRUNE WHIP: 

Three-fourths of a pound of stewed prunes, whites 
of four eggs, four tablespoons of sugar. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, add the prunes cut into small 
pieces with the sugar, then place in a baking dish and 
place in a very moderate oven for 15 minutes. Serve 
with cream. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE: 

Half a box of gelatine soaked in a cupful of water 

for an hour. One-half a cupful of grated chocolate. 

rubbed smooth in a little inilk. Boil two cups of 

milk, then add the gelatine, chocolate and one cup of 

sugar; boil all together eight minutes; remove from 

the fire and when nearly cold beat into this the whipped 

whites of three eggs; flavor with vanilla. Should be 

served cold with a custard made of the yolks, or sugar 

and cream. 

EGGLESS PLUM PUDDING: 

One heaping cup of dry bread crumbs, two heaping 

cups of flour, one cup of suet, one cup of each of 

molasses, raisins and sweet milk, one teaspoon each 

salt and cloves, one-half a teaspoon of soda, a little 

baking powder. (One cup of chopped apples may be 

be used). Steam two hours. 

SAUCE: 

One cup of whipped cream, two eggs (well beaten), 

one-half a cup of powdered sugar, to which add one 

and one-half teaspoons of flavoring. 




«' FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 

67 




RAISIN PUFFS: 

Two eggs, one-half a cup of butter, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, three teaspoons of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two cupfvils of flour, one large cup of raisins 
chopped very fine, put in teacups and steam half an 
hour. Serve with Pudding Sauce, made as follows: 

Three-quarters cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of 
butter, stirred to a cream; whip one cup of cream 
and mix with sugar and butter. This makes a most 
delicious dessert. Granite cups can be bought for 
eight cents each, which are very nice to steam the 
pufi^s in. 
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE: 

One cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, 
a little salt, two teaspoons of lard; add milk, as for 
cake dough; after baking split and butter both sides. 
Have for half an hour one quart of strawberries lying 
in one cup of sugar and a little water. Place these 
between layers, pouring the remainmg juice over if 
desired. 



PEACH FLIP: 

One and one-half cups crushed peaches, two cups 
of hot water, one cup of sugar, one-half teaspoon of 
butter, almost two tablespoons of dissolved corn- 
starch to thicken while the mixture is boiling. Add 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring cjuickly. When 
thickened pour into' a pudding dish and put the 
beaten whites of two eggs on to]) (slightly sweetened). 
Place in oven for a minute until light brown. Serve 
with sweet cream or the syrup of the peaches. 
COFFEE JELLY: 

One box of gelatine soaked in one cup of water 
one-half hour, then add one cup of hot water and 
one cup of strong coffee, one cup of sugar. Let boil 
five minutes, then pour in a mold and cool on ice. 
Serve with whipped cream. 




TAPIOCA CREAM: 

Three tablespoons of Pearl tapioca, soak over night 
in cold water, enough to cover it. In the morning 
add the tapioca to one quart of milk; heat boiling 
hot and stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs 
and two-thirds of a cup of sugar; stir until it begins 
to thicken. Pour into a pudding dish and frost with 
the whites of three eggs and three tablespoons of 
sugar; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Brown lightly 
in the oven. 
JELLY MOLD: 

One cup each of raspberry and currant juice, one 
small cup of water three-fourths of a cup of sugar, 
one-half a cup of Farina, stirred until thick and clear. 
Mold in cups, wet with cold water, serve with cream 
and sugar or vanilla sauce inade as follows: One 
cup of milk, one dessert spoon each cornstarch and 
sugar, the beaten yolks of two eggs and let come to 
a boil When remo\ed from the fire add one teaspoon 
of vanilla. 



FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 




SAND TARTS: 

Cream together one cup of butter and two cups of 

powdered sugar; add the well beaten yolks of three 

eggs and one tablespoon of milk, one pound of flour 

and two teaspoons of baking powder. 

CREAM PUFFS: 

Take the whites of four eggs; put in a pinch of 

salt and beat them very stiff; then add one cup of 

sugar and beat ; drop a dessert spoonful on paper 

and bake in a very slow oven, take off the paper and 

fill with whipped cream. 

PEACH PUFFS: 

Put a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder and 
a salt spoonful of salt into a large cup of flour and 
sift twice. Add sweet inilk to make a smooth batter 
(about two-thirds of a cupful), and last, a table- 
spoonful of incited butter. Put a spoonful of batter 
in the bottom of each well greased cup, then a whole 
peach peeled and stoned and a spoonful of batter 
on top. Steam half an hour. 

P'or the sauce, stew some sliced peaches and measure 
the drained juice; add half as much more sugar as 
juice and as njuch water as juice, a teaspoonful of 
cornstarch rubbed smooth with water, cook until 
clear and smooth. This is nice made with other kinds 
of fruit or with jam, and with any nice pudding sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS: 

Beat two eggs, add one-half cup of milk, two heaping 

tablespoons of flour with one-half a teaspoon of baking 

powder. Take from six to eight apples, remove cores 

and cut in circular slices, sprinkle cinnainon over the 

slices dip separately into the batter; then fry them 

in hot lard a delicate brown. Sprinkle powdered 

sugar over the fritters. 

DATE TORTE: 

Beat one pound of powdered sugar with the yolks 

of twelve eggs: add one-half a pound of dates cut 

fine; one-half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one and a 

half teaspoon of allspice, two ounces of grated choco- 
late. Grate the peeling of one lemon, eight to ten 

soda crackers, add last the whites of the eggs, beaten 

to a froth, 

FRITTERS: 

Put one pint of milk on stove to boil; when boiled 
put in a teaspoon of salt; stir in flour to make it 
very thick, when cool add four eggs, stirring in one at 
a time, without beating; then add a little flour with a 
teaspoon of baking powder. Have your lard hot and 
drop in with a teaspoon. 
CORN MEAL PUDDING: 

Scald two cups of milk, stir in two tablespoons of 
corn meal and let stand on back of stove all morning, 
add one-half cup of sugar, one spoon of butter, two 
eggs, one-half teaspoon of ginger and a little salt. 
Bake. 




FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR. 



69 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING: 

One pint of sweet milk, yolks ot three eggs, five 
tablespoons of grated, chocolate, one pint of ' bread 
crumbs, one-half cup of sugar. Scald the milk and 
add the crumbs and chocolate, take from fire and add 
sugar and yolks. Bake about half an hour. Beat 
the whites of eggs stiff, sweeten and spread on top, 
brown slightly. Serve hot with cream, 

SNOW PUDDING: 

Put into a double boiler one pint of boiling water, 
add three tablespoons of corn starch dissolved in a 
little cold water, then stir in rapidly the whites of 
three eggs beaten very stift". Cover and steam ten 
minutes. 

SAUCE: 

Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of milk, butter the size of a walnut. 
Boil and flavor. Put pudding in dish pour o\-er 
custard. Serve cold. 



BREAD PUDDING: 

Two cups of grated bread crumbs, one-fourth cup 
of butter, one-half cup of sugar, one pint of rich inilk, 
half a teaspoon of salt, nutmeg and cinnamon, the 
grated rind of one lemon, one-fourth cup of chopped 
almonds, whites of two eggs beaten. Cream, butter 
and sugar; add eggs and spices; then bread and 
milk. Steam two hours. Serve with butter or lemon 



ALMOND TORTE: 

Three-quarters pound of butter, pne-half pound 
sugar, one and one-quarter pounds of flour, yolks of 
two eggs, bake slow in a tin. When cool, spread 
gooseberry marmalade over the layer; then grate a 
half pound of almonds, take half a pound of sugar, 
whites of three eggs, heat together on the stove, 
spread over the marmalade, bake to a light brown. 



FIG PUDDING: 

Two eggs well beaten, one-half a cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of milk, one cup of suet, one-third cu]) 
of walnuts (last two chopped^ one-half pound of 
figs cut small. Add to above mixture two cups of 
soft bread crumbs, half a teaspoon of salt, steam 
three hours in a buttered mold. 

YELLOW SAUCE FOR ABOVE: 

Two eggs beaten \ery light, one cup of powdered 
sugar added gradually, beat five minutes and add 
one-half cup of cream; cook- over hot water until 
it begins to thicken. Flavor. ^ 

CREAM PUFFS: 

Melt one-half cup of butter in one cup of hot water; 
while boiling, stir in one cup of flour; remove from 
fire and when cool stir in three eggs, one at a time, 
without beating, drop in tablespoonsful on buttered 
pan and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



PUDDING: 

One- half box of gelatine dissolved in the quart of 
milk; heat gradually on back of stove; when hot 
stir into it the yolks of four eggs well beaten with 
four tablespoons of sugar; also the whites beaten 
separately with six spoons of sugar; flavor and stir 
well. Pour in a mold. Serve next day with flavored 
cream. 




COCOA MERINGUE PUDDING: 

One cup of milk, two tablespoons of flour four 
teaspoons of cocoa, yolks of two eggs, pinch of .salt, 
three tablespoons of sugar, half a teaspoon of vanilla. 
Put milk in the upper part of the double boiler and 
heat; mix flour and cocoa, softened in a little cold 
milk; mix until free from lumps; when milk is hot 
add the flour and cook 10 minutes, stirring often; 
beat yolks; add sugar and salt; pour hot mixture 
over; put in double boiler, stirring constantly, and 
cook just enough to thicken the eggs; remove, add a 
little more sugar and salt if desired, and vanilla when 
cool. Cover with meringue, made from the whites 
of two eggs, half teaspoon of vanilla, four tablespoons 
of confectioner's sugar and a pinch of salt. Brown 
slightly. Will serve four. May be eaten warm or 
cold. 



SNOW PUDDING: 

Three tablespoons of cornstarch dissolved in cold 
water. Pour into that one pint of boiling water, add 
one-half cup of sugar, boil 10 minutes, stir well, when 
done stir in the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS: 

Yolks of three eggs, half cup of sugar, two cups of 
milk, mix and cook until it commences to thicken, 
flavor. To be eaten when cold. 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA: 

Soak over night one cup of tapioca in plenty of 
cold water. Next morning drain off water, add' the 
juice of two lemons and half a cup of water, one-half 
pound can of shredded pineapple, one and one-half 
cups of sugar. Cook all together slowly. Beat the 
whites of three eggs and add carefully. Eat with 
cream either whipped or plain. 



RASPBERRY FLUMMERY: 

Drain the juice off a can of raspberries, add suf- 
ficient hot water to make it a little over a pint of 
liquid. Pour this over a package of lemon jello, 
stirring until well dissolved; small cup of sugar; 
pour one-third of the mixture into a deep china bowl, 
add a third of the raspberries and set outside or on 
ice to cool. When stiff add the remainder of liquid 
and berries alternately and serve with whipped cream. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



71 




STEAMED SUET PUDDING: 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of New Orleans 

molasses, one cup each, seeded raisins and currants, 

one cup of beef suet chopped fine. Put a scant tea- 
spoon of soda in the molasses. Add flour for a stiff 

batter ,one teaspoon each, cinnamon, cloves and nut- 
meg. Steam three hours. 

SAUCE FOR SAME: 

One cup of sugar, half cup of buttef beaten to a 

cream. Add the well beaten yolks of two eggs, juice 

and gated rind of one lemon, then the whites of the 

two eggs well beaten, and beat all together. Set 

on ice to cool. 

APPLE SNOW: 

Place 12 large apples in cold water over a slow 
fire; when soft drain off the water; skin and core 
the ap7)les; place them in a large dish, stir in one- 
half pound of powdered sugar and add th(J whites 
of 1 2 eggs. Beat the whole to a stiff snow and turn 
into a dessert dish. 
QUEEN OF PUDDINGS: 

Tliree eggs and a half cup of sugar, butter the size of 
an egg, one teaspoon of lemon extract, one pint of 
bread crumbs, one pint of milk. Beat the whites 
of the eggs separately, add one teaspoon of sugar. 
When the pudding is done, spread on a layer of jelly, 
then the whites of the eggs. Brown lightly and serve 
with whipped cream. 
SNOW PUDDING: 

One-cjuarter package of gelatine, juice of two lemons, 
one cup of sugar and one pint of water. Put the 
water on the gelatine and dissolve. When dissolved 
add lemon juice and sugar and .set away until it begins 
to thicken, then beat in the well beaten whites of two 
eggs. Beat 10 minutes and put away to thicken. 

CUSTARD TO EAT WITH THIS PUDDING: 

Put a pint of milk on the stove and when hot add 

tne yolks of two eggs and a half cup of sugar, a few 

drops of vanilla. Stir this well before putting into hot 

milk. Stir the hot mixture until it begins to thicken 

a very little. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS: 

Make dough same as for biscuits; roll out; pare and 

quarter apples; cover each quarter of an apple with 

dough; put into a deep dish and bake until a light 

brown; take out and cover with the following sauce: 

One-half cup of .sugar, one cup of boiling water, piece 

of butter, little nutmeg. Pour this white boiling 

over the dumplings. Set back into oven until the 

apples are well done. 




FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 




" DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 

74 




PIES. 
CREAM PIE. 

The yolks of three egi^s beaten with one cup of 
sugar, adding one and one-half cups of milk in which 
one tablespoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
When baked, p-lace the beaten whites of the three 
eggs, with two tablespoons of powdered sugar on top, 
and brown lightly. 

LEMON PIF: fSUPERIOR): 

Grate the rind of two lemons, one-half a cup of 
sugar, three heaping tablespoons cornstarch of Daniel 
Webster flour, yolks of three eggs well beaten; to 
which add the juice of two lemons, two cups of water, 
butter the size of a walnut. Boil until it thickens. 
Have pie tin lined with pastry. Pour in the custard. 
Beat stiff three whites of eggs, add three rounded 
tablespoons of sugar. Place in oven and brown 
lightly. 



CHEESE PIE: 

Two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoon 
of melted butter, one-quarter cup of verv hnelv 
chopped almonds, the grated rind and juice of half a 
lemon, one-quarter teaspoon of cinnamon, one pint 
of cottage cheese, one-half a cup of milk or cream. 
Beat eggs and sugar until light, add the rest and cook 
in double boiler until thick. Fill in baked pastry 
shells. 

VINEGAR PIE: 

Two eggs, one heaping tablespoon of Daniel Webster 
flour, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of \ inegar, 
one cup of cold water, flavor with nutmeg and bake 
with upper and lower crust. 



MOCK CHERRY PIE: 

One cup of cranberries cut open, half a cup of 
raisins cut fine, one cup of sugar, small cup of water, 
one tablespoon of Daniel W^ebster flour, one teaspoon 
of vanilla. Bits of butter may be added. Bake with 
two crusts. 

CHOCOLATE PIE: 

One pint of milk, let it come to a boil; one-half a 
cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter creamed, add 
the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons of Daniel 
Webster flour moistened with a little cold milk, one- 
fourth of a bar of Baker's chocolate melted; stir this 
into the milk and let boil until it thickens, then pour 
into the pie crust, which has been previously baked; 
cover the top with beaten whites of two eggs and 
return to the oven a few minutes to brown. 

" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 




75 




APPLE PIE: 

Fill a pie tin with sliced apples, a cup of sugar 
and half a lemon, with bits of butter on top. Put a 
crust only on top of the pie. 
SOUR CREAM PIE: 

One cup ot sour cream, one cup of sugar, two table- 
spoons of vinegar, two eggs, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon of cloves, one-half teaspoon of nut- 
meg, raisins as for mince pie. Bake with two crusts. 
TO KEEP PUMPKIN FOR PIES: 

To one quart of pumpkin cooked dry, add one and 
one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one 
teaspoon of ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon, half a 
nutmeg, one teaspoon of salt, cook well and stir, then 
fill jelly glasses. When cool cover with molasses. 
This will keep two or three months. For one pie 
use one glass of pumpkin, one egg, one tables[)oon 
of melted butter, one cup of milk. 

MINCE MEAT: 

Two pounds of cooked meat, chopped fine, one and 
one-half dozen apples chopped, two pounds of currants, 
two cups of molasses, two teaspoons of cinnamon, 
one-half of nutmeg, one teaspoon of allspice, one 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of vinegar one pint 
of water 
GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT: 

One peck of greeji tomatoes, one tablespoon of salt, 
two pounds of raisins, two tablespoons each of 
cinnamon and cloves, five pounds of brown sugar, one 
cup of suet, two teaspoons of nutmeg, one cup of 
boiled cider, a Httle ginger,, one cup of vinegar. Chop 
the tomatoes, drain, cover with cold water, put on 
fire, scald, drain, cover with cold water, scald and 
drain a second time; add the suet sugar, salt and 
raisins; boil until done (about one hour), then add 
other ingredients, boil a few minutes and put in crock 
or fruit jars. 

PUMPKIN PIE: 

Stew pumpkin all day, then for each pie take one 
cup of pumpkin, two well beaten eggs, half a cup 
of sugar, half pint rich milk, a little salt, stir well 
together and season with cinnamon or nutmeg, bake 
with under crust in a bot oven. 

CRANBERRY PIE: 

One large cup of cranberries, washed and split in 
two, one large cup of sugar, one tablespoon of Danie! 
Webster flour, one-half cup of water, mix well and 
bake with two crusts. 
DATE PIE: 

One pound of dates, three eggs, one quart of milk, 
stone dates, boil until soft, beat the eggs put in dates; 
when cool mix in milk. Bake without cover. Enough 
for three pies. For two pies use less milk. 

" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

76 





ORANGE PIE: 

Grate the rind of one and use the juice of two large 
oranges. Stir together a large cupful of sugar and a 
heaping tablespoon of Daniel Webster fiour; add to 
this the well beaten yolks of three eggs, two table- 
spoons of melted butter. Reserve the whites for 
frosting. Turn this into a pie pan lined with pie 
paste and bake in a quick oven. When done so as 
to resemble a finely baked custard spread on the top 
of it the beaten whites, which must be sweetened 
with two tablespoons of sugar, spread evenly and 
return to the oven, brown slightly. The addition 
of half a lemon improves it. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

Boil one pint of milk, add three teaspoons of corn- 
starch, when boiled, take from stove and stir in the 
yolks of four eggs, two tablespoons of butter, one 
cup of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rind 
of one (grated). Pour into the crust and bake 20 
minutes. Whip the whites of four eggs into one cup 
of sugar spread over the top and brown. 

PUMPKIN PIE: 

For three pies; Take 12 tablespoons of grated raw 
pumpkin, beat four eggs with two and a half cups 
of brown sugar, add ginger, nutmeg and cinnamon; 
jnilk and cream to make the proper consistency, one 
tablespoon of melted butter. Bake one hour. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE: 

One cup of ripe washed currants, one cup of sugar, 
two tablespoons of water, one tablespoon of Daniel 
Webster flour, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. 
Bake and frost the top with the beaten whites of the 
eggs and two tablespoons of sugar. 

LEMON PIE: 

Bake the crust separately. Filling: The juice of 
one lemon, a little of the grated rind or not, a small 
teacup of sugar, yolks of two eggs beaten well; add 
one large cup of water into which has been vStirred a 
tablespoon of cornstarch. Put into a double boiler 
and cook until a nice clear jelly is formed; put into 
the baked crust and cover with two beaten whites 
of eggs, to which has been added three tablespoons 
of sugar. Set in oven to brown. 

FINE APPLE PIE: 

Take one cup of apple sauce one-half a cup of 
chopped raisins, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons 
of chopped walnuts, sweeten to taste. Put over this 
a meringue of two whites of eggs with two tablespoons 
of sugar. 





"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

77 





"DANIEL WEBSTEK FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST.' 



rs 




COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 

COOKIES: 

Take one cup of sugar, and four eggs beaten 20 
minutes, one-fourth pound of dried citron, cut tine, 
grated rind of one lemon, one-half grated nutmeg, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of cloves, 
one teaspoon soda and one pound of Daniel Webster 
flour. 

GINGER COOKIES: 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup 
sour milk, one cup of butter and lard mixed, one egg, 
one spoon ginger, one tablespoon soda, Daniel Webster 
flour enough to roll nicely. Do not roll thin. 



THANKSGIVING COOKIES: 

Use four fresh eggs most thoroughly beaten, two 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter. These three in- 
gredients are creamed until very light and smooth. 
Add two heaping teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor 
with lemon. Use four cups oi Daniel Webster flour. 
More flour will be needed' to make the mixture easily 
handled. Remember no milk or water. 

VANILLA COOKIES: 

Use eight tal)lespoons of sugar, six of melted butter 
and four tablespoons of milk, two eggs beaten light, 
three teaspoons baking powder, two teaspoons of 
vanilla and Daniel Webster flour enough to make a 
dough to handle. Roll out thin. Sprinkle with 
granulated sugar. Cut out and bake in quick oven. 




COOKIES: 

Use one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one-half 
cup .sour cream, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, a little 
nutmeg, Daniel Webster flour. 

SPICED COOKIES: 

Use two pounds brown sugar, 10 eggs, five cents 
citron, two tablespoons each of allspice and cinnamon, 
one-half tablespoon cloves, one nutmeg, nuts and 
Daniel Webster flour. Drop. 

OATMEAL COOKIES: 

Take one cup each of sugar, butter (or lard) and 
raisins, two cups of oatmeal, two eggs, six tablespoons 
of milk, one-fourth teaspoon of soda, cinnamon, 
nutmegs and cloves and two cups of Daniel Webster 
flour. 

FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



so 




GINGER COOKIES: 

Use two and a half cups New Orleans molasses or 
sorghum, one-half cup sugar, one cup shortening 
(one-half may be lard or beef drippings), one egg. 
one-third cup water or black coffee, three heaping 
teaspoons soda, ginger. Molasses and sugar to be 
boiled a few minutes. When cool add shortening, 
eggs, etc. 

COOKIES WITH YOLKS OF EGGS: 

Take one cup of white sugar, one-half cup butter 
and lard inixed, yolks of three eggs well beaten, one- 
fourth cup of sour milk or none at all, a little vanilla, 
scant one-half teaspoon soda and Daniel Webster flour 
to make soft dough. 



PEANUT COOKIES: 

Use one tablespoon butter, two each of sugar and 
milk, one egg well beaten, one-half cup of Daniel 
Webster flour, one half teaspoon baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup chopped peanuts. 
Drop with teaspoon on buttered tins. This makes 
24 cookies. 

GINGER DROPS: 

Use one cup of molasses, brown sugar, shortening 
and raisms, one teaspoon soda. Dissolve in one- 
third cup of water, one-half teaspoon salt, spices. 
Daniel Webster flour to stiffen. 

GINGER SNAPS: 

Use one cup each of brown sugar, molasses and 
butter, one egg, four tablespoons vinegar, a little salt, 
one-half teaspoon ginger, two teaspoons soda and 
Daniel Webtser flour enough to roll out. Boil sugar, 
molasses and soda together, but only a very few 
minutes. 

ROCKS: 

Use one and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup 
butter, two eggs, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon 
soda, in one-half cup hot water, pinch of salt, one cup 
seeded raisins, 10 cents worth of English walnuts, 
three large cups of Daniel Webster flour. 

ALMOND ROCKS: 

Use four eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
Daniel Webster flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
10 cents worth finely chopped almonds. Beat the 
eggs and sugar well and then add the flour and almonds. 
Flavor to taste, drop on butter pans. 

ROCKS: 

Use one and a half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, 
three eggs, one teaspoon of soda, dissolved in water, 
pinch of salt, cinnamon, two and a half cups of Daniel 
Webster flour, one cup of English walnuts chopped, 
one cup of seeded raisins chopped. Drop from spoon 
on buttered tins. 

" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

SI 





ROCKS: 

Use one and a half cups sugar, one cup butter, one 
and a half cups walnuts chopped fine, two cups of 
chopped seeded raisins, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in warm water, one teaspoon cinnainon, 
two and a half cups Daniel Webster flour. Drop 
from a teaspoon into a pan. Bake in a hot oven. 

JUMBLES: 

Beat to a cream two cups of sugar and one cup of 
butter; four eggs beaten separately, scant one-half 
spoon soda, two spoons water, one-fourth spoon vanilla. 
Daniel Webster flour enough to roll out. 



JUMBLES: 

Take two cups sugar, two eggs, one cup butter, 
two-thirds cup milk, three teaspoons of Royal baking 
powder, four cups Daniel Webster flour. Cream the 
butter and then stir in the sugar, milk and flour by 
degrees. 

ALMOND WAFERS: 

Cream one-half cup of butter and one cup of sugar; 
three eggs added gradually, three-fourths cup of finely 
chopped almonds, one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, 
a few drops of vanilla, two cups of Daniel Webster 
flour sifted with one teaspoon of baking powder. 
Spread in greased square or oblong baking tins, not 
too thick, barely covering bottom of tin. Strew 
powdered sugar on top and bake in quick oven. When 
a light brown remov^e from oven and cut into oblong 
wafers one by three inches. When cool pack in 
earthen jars, plccing fresh lemon peel in bottom and 
some on top. Keep in a cool place. 

DOUGHNUTS: 

Take two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
one tablespoon butter, nutmeg to flavor, three teas- 
spoons of baking powder, one quart of Daniel Webster 
flour. 

DOUGHNUTS: 

Use one cup of sugar, three tablespoons of buttee 
and lard mixed, three eggs, one cup sweet milk, threr 
teaspoons baking powder and enough Daniel Webster 
flour to roll. 

DOUGHNUTS: 

Take three eggs, one cup of sweet inilk, one cup 
sugar, a little salt, one nutmeg, grated, three cups of 
Daniel Webster flour, three teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted with the flour three or four times. Roll out in 
flour and put into boiling lard. 

DOUGHNUTS: 

Take one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, 

one cup sour cream, scant teaspoon salt, little cinnamon 

and nutmeg and teaspoon soda dissolved in cream. 

Beat very light and add Daniel Webster flour to make 

^^s_ soft dough, 

FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



82 



CINNAMON MACAROONS: 

Take two scant cups sugar, one-half pound blanched 
almonds chopped fine, whites of six eggs beaten very 
stiffly. Add the sugar and beat together 15 minutes. 
Add almonds and two teaspoons of cinnamon. Drop 
by teaspoons into pans lined with paper and bake 
in a very slow oven. 

SPICED NUTS: 

Take one pound Daniel Webster flour, one pound 
sugar, both sifted, four large eggs, the grated rind of 
one lemon, one-half nutmeg, one small tablespoon 
cinnamon and one of ground cloves. The eggs, sugar, 
one teaspoon of baking powder and the spices should 
be well mixed and the flour well worked into the same 
on a bake board. Foim into little balls and bake in 
a slow oven. 



TRIFLES: 

Work one beaten egg and one tablespoon of sugar 
into as much Daniel Webster flour as will make a 
stiff paste. Roll as thin as a silver dollar and cut 
into small cakes. Drop a few at a time into hot lard 
and cook until they rise to the surface, turn over 
remove with a skimmer and drain, 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS: 

Shell and pound one-half pound of almonds, beat 
whites of three eggs to stiff froth and add one cup 
of powdered sugar and cup grated chocolate and 
flavor with vanilla. Dip hands into cold water, roll 
mixture into balls size of nutmegs and bake on buttered 
tins in very moderate oven. 



ALMOND KISSES: 

Use whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, one pound 
of powdered sugar, one tablespoon of Daniel Webster 
flour, one-half pound of blanched almonds chopped. 
Drop on buttered tins or paper and bake in moderate 



CHOCOLATE KISSES: 

Take nine eggs, one and one-half pounds of sugar. 
one and a half pounds of Daniel Webster flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one-half pound almonds, 
one-half citron chopped fine, four tablespoons chocolate, 
one-fourth teaspoon pepper, two of cinnamon, one 
each of cloves and nutmegs. Beat the sugar and eggs 
very stiff. Sift the baking powder, chocolate and 
spices with the flour, then add the beaten egg and 
sugar and at last the fruit. 



COCOANUT KISSES: 

Use whites of two eggs, one cup of powdered sugar, 
two tablespoons of Daniel Webster flour, one and 
three-fourths cups grated cocoanut. 

GINGER BREAD: 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sugar, two cups Daniel Webster 
flour, one egg, two small teaspoons soda, two teaspoons 
ginger. 




"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

8.? 




if*-^ 



GINGER BREAD: 

One cup sour cream or one cup sour milk and one 
tablespoon butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one egg, two and a half cups of Daniel 
Webster flour, one teaspoon ginger, one large teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon salt and a little of all kinds of 
spices. 

WHITE COOKIES: 

One cup of thick sour cream, one cup of sugar, 
teaspoon of soda, salt, grate in the rind of a lemon. 

GINGER DROPS: 

Take one cup of molasses, one-half of sugar, one- 
half of butter, one of boiling water, one teaspoon of 
soda, three cups of Daniel Webster flour, one teaspoon 
of cinnamon, one-half of cloves and one-fourth of 
ginger. Sift the spices and flour together. Last add 
three well beaten eggs. 



NUT COOKIES: 

Take one cup each of butter and sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, one-half teaspoon salaratus, one teaspoon 
baking powder, one egg beaten thoroughly, one tea- 
spoon salt, three-fourths of a soup bowl nut meats. 
These should be chopped, not too fine. Add enough 
Daniel Webster flour to roll out as thin as pie crust 

OATMEAL ROCKS: 

Take one cup each butter and sugar, two cups 
Daniel Webster flour, two eggs, four tablespoons of 
milk, three-fourths teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoon of soda, one cup of raisins, one cup of nuts 
and two of oatmeal. 

BLITZKUCHEN: 

Take three eggs, three-fourths cup butter, one of 
sugar, two of Daniel Webster flour and one teaspoon 
of baking powder. Roll thin and cut in diamonds. 



CHRISTMAS COOKIES: 

Take one glass of honey, one cup each of molasses 
and sugar, ten cents each of almonds and citron, two 
tablespoons of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two 
teaspoons soda, enough Daniel Webster flour to make 
stiff; cinnamon, cloves ginger and anise, one teaspoon 
each. Roll out and bake in long pans. When baked 
cut into squares and frost. 

WHITE COOKIES: 

Use three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one of 
butter, one-half cup of sour milk, one teaspoon soda 
and sufficient Daniel Webster flour to roll out. 

BROWN COOKIES: 

Take one cup brown sugar, one and a half of molasses, 
one of butter, two-thirds cup milk, one teaspoon soda 
and one spoonful of ginger. 




*'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 

84 



HONEY COOKIES: 

Take one quart of honey, one and a half pounds of 
sugar, five pounds Daniel Webster flour, one-half 
pound butter, one-half pound lard, one-half pound 
citron, one-half pound of almonds cut fine, four eggs, 
grated rind of lemon, one tablespoon of cloves and 
cinnamon, pinch of cardamom and one and a half 
teaspoons of soda. Mix all and let stand over night. 
In the morning roll into sheets and cut into any shapes 
desired. These are winter cookies. In the summer 
they do not stay crisp. 



OATMEAL COOKIES: 

Use one cup each of lard and sugar, three eggs- 
five tablespoons of milk, three-fourths teaspoon of 
each soda and cinnamon, one and a half cups oatmeal, 
two each of Daniel Webster flour and chopped raisins 
or nuts. Drop on tins. 

CARD CAKE: 

Take one cupful each of sugar, butter, molasses 
and sour milk. Add two teaspoons of soda, two of 
ginger, two of cinnamon and a pinch of salt with 
Daniel Webster flour enough to roll out. Cut into 
pieces four inches wide and five long, place them in 
a pan and mark with a knife across the top, aVjout 
half an inch apart. Bake in quick oven. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS: 

Beat one cup of sour cream and one cup of sugar, 
two eggs and a level teaspoon of soda, little salt and 
Daniel Webster flour enough to roll. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mix by sifting two times, two teaspoons of baking 
powder with one quart or more of Daniel Webster 
flour. Beat two eggs in a cup of sugar, one cup of 
cream and milk and flavor to taste. Fry in hot lard. 
When cold roll in powdered sugar. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

85 




CAKES. 

IIER FIRST CAKE. 
" She measured out the batter with a very solemn air, 
The milk and sugar also, and she took the greatest care 
To count the eggs correctly, and to add a little bit 
Of Baking Powder, which, you know beginners oft omit ; 
Then she stirred it all together, and she baked it 

full an hour, 
But she never quite forgave herself for leaving out 

Daniel Webster hour.— Judge. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE: 

Boil a pint of granulated sugar, and a half a cup of 
water until it spins a thread, pour slowly into eight 
well beaten yolks of eggs, beat cold, add juice and 
grated rind of an orange, half a pound of pastry flour, 
stiffly beaten whites of eight eggs last. Bake an hour, 
ice when cold. 

LAYER CAKE: 

i cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet inilk, 

H cups of sugar, 2^ cups of flour, 

White of six or three 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

whole eggs, powder. 

GOLDEN CAKE: 

Yolks of eight eggs well beaten, heaping cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half a cup of sweet 
milk, one and one-half cups of flour sifted three times, 
with one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Easy to make and sure to please. 

FRENCH LAYER CAKE: 

Beat two cups of pulverized sugar and three-fourths 
of a cup of butter to a cream; add to this the well 
beaten yolks of four eggs, a little more than half a 
cup of sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, 
two and a half teaspoons of baking powder and then 
the well beaten whites of four eggs; divide this into 
three parts; into one part mix one half teacup each 
of chopped raisins and currants, one-half a teaspoon 
each of cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake in one layer. 
Into the second layer stir a teaspoon of vanilla and 
four teaspoons of grated chocolate and bake n one 
layer. Last layer flavor with lemon. When baked, 
put the chocolate at bottom, the fruit layer in the 
middle and the white on top. Put together with 
chocolate frosting. 

"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING: 

One cup of granulated sugar, six tablespoons of 
milk, boil four minutes -without stirring. Whip in 
three heaping tablespoons of grated chocolate. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

BROWN CAKE: 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half a cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one cup of strong coffee, four cups 
of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one cup of 
raisins, one cup of nuts, spices, one egg. Bake in 
a slow oven. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE: 

Two cups of pulverized sugar, add a half cup of 
butter beaten to a cream, half a cup of sweet milk, 
two and a half cups of flour, two and a half teaspoons 
of bakmg powder m the flour, whites of seven eggs, 
add one cup of chojiped hickory nut meats. 



GRAHAM PUFF CAKE: 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
two whole eggs (beat separate), one cup of milk, 
two cups of grahani, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
one cup of raisins, vanilla. 

VARIETY CAKE: 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter beaten to a cream, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
three eggs beaten separately, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, two cups of flour. In one-third of this put 
one small cup of raisins, one-half a teaspoon each 
of cloves and cinnamon and a little nutmeg. Bake 
in three layers. Put together with boiled frosting. 

MARBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs 
(well beaten), one cup of milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Take out one cup 
of the batter, mix with four tablespoons of grated 
chocolate dissolved in cream. Cover the bottom of 
the tin with the white batter and drop upon it in 
places spoonfuls of the chocolate, then another layer 
of the white until all is used. 



SPONGE CAKE: 

Four eggs, beat the yolks and whites separately, 
one cup of flour, one scant cup of sugar, two teaspoons 
of cold water, one teaspoon cream tartar, half a tea- 
spoon of soda. Flavor to taste and bake in moderate 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

Six tablespoons of grated chocolate, five table- 
spoons of boiling water over it, let stand a while. 
Cream one and a half cups of sugar, and one-half 
cup of butter, then add the chocolate, yolks of four 
eggs and half a cup of sweet milk, one and three- 
quarters cups of flour, with a heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder, and lastly the well beaten whites 
of four eggs. It will seem thin but is all right 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

89 



ORANGE CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of butter, the 
whites of three eggs and the yolk of one. one-half a 
cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder 
in about two cups (or more) of flour, last the juice 
of one orange. Make boiled frosting. When beating 
it and it is nearly stiff enough, put in it the grated 
rind of the orange; spread between layers and on 
top of the cake. This recipe is for two layers. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS: 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of lard or butter, 
one cup of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, one cup 
of raisins, two cups of flour. Spices; Cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg. 

CARAMEL CAKE: 

Whites of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in two jelly 
tins. 



FILLING: 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup sweet cream, 
butter size of an egg, teaspoon of vanilla; boil until 
it almost hardens in cold water. Take from fire and 
add one cup of walnut meats. Beat until almost 
cold. 

FRUIT CAKE: 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, two pounds of currants, 
two pounds of seeded raisins, one pound of citron, 
one-quarter of a pound of almonds, mace, a wine 
glass of orange juice and lemon each. Cream the 
butter and sugar, add 10 eggs beaten separately 
then flour and fruit floured. Bake two hours. 

SPONGE CAKE: 

Si.x eggs, beat five minutes, one cup of sugar, beat 
five minutes, three tablespoons of cold water, one 
at a time, beat strenuously five minutes, one teaspoon 
of lemon e.\tract, one even teaspoonful baking powder, 
sifted with one cup of flour into the cake; mi.K lightly. 



DEVIL'S FOOD: 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of sour milk, 
two eggs, one-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoon soda, one cup grated chocolate, one-half 
cup of milk, two-thirds cup brown sugar, one teaspoon 
of vanilla, cooked until like cream and mixed in batter. 
Bake in slow oven and fill with two cups of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, butter size of an 
egg, cooked until it hairs. 

WHITE CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Cream 
the sugar and butter then ad milk and flour with 
the baking powder, last add the whites of the eggs. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Use plain white icing with 
chopped nuts. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

90 




FIG ECLAIR: 

One cup of butter (scant) two cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, whites of eight eggs, three and three- 
quarters cups of flour, three level teaspoons of baking 
powder. Bake one-half of the mixture in two layers. 
Spread fig filling between the layers and frost with 
White Mountain cream. 

FIG FILLING: 

One-half pound of figs chopped fine, one-third a 
cup of sugar, one-third cup of water, juice of half a 
lemon. Mix the ingredients in the order given; cook 
in the top of a double boiler until thick enough to 
spread. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAK!: 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup of water, white 
of one- egg, one-half teaspoon of vanilla or flavor to 
taste. 



POTATO CAKE: 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of grated potatoes, one cup of 
grated chocolate, one pound of walnuts, two and a 
half cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder 
four eggs. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE: 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three 
eggs beaten separately, half a cup of sweet milk, 
half a teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, two and 
a half cups of flour, one-half a cake of Baker's choco- 
late grated and dissolved in half a cup of boiling water. 
Make white frosting with or without chopped nuts. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE: 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two- 
thirds cup of butter, three cups of flour, three eggs, 
two teaspoons of baking powder, one cup of nut 
kernels cut fine. 



WHITE CAKE: 

Cream together one cup of butter and three cups 
of sugar, add one cup of milk. Sift three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder into one cup of cornstarch, mixed, 
with three cups of sifted flour. Beat in gradually 
the whites of twelve beaten eggs. Flavor to taste. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, one cup of cream, whipped, one 
and a half cups of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, 
one teaspoon of vanilla, whites of three eggs and 
yolks of two, a little salt. 



MARBLE CAKE: 

One cup of sugar one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, whites of three eggs, two cups of flour, 
a teaspoon of baking powder. 

DARK PART: 

One-half cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of 
molasses, a half cup each of butter and milk, two 
cups of flour, yolks of three eggs, a teaspoon of baking 
powder, one teaspoon of mixed spices. 




"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 
91 




WHITE CAKE: 

One larire cup of pulverized sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, scant, beaten to a cream, three-quarters cup 
of milk, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, 
one large cup of flour, whites of four eggs beaten 
very stiff. Bake in two layers or a deep flat pan. 

SUNSHINE CAKE: 

The yolks of five and the whites of seven eggs, 
one coffee cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of flour, 
two-thirds of a teaspoon of cream of tartar. Beat 
the yolks until foamy, then beat the whites, half, 
add cream of tartar, beat well, then add beaten yolks, 
sugar that has been sifted four times, the flour that 
has been sifted four times and measured after sifted. 
Bake in a moderate oven 3 5 minutes. 



NUT CAKE: 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, three eggs, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder, vanilla to.flavoi". 

FILLING: 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, one cup 
of chopped walnuts, yolks of two eggs. Cook in a 
double boiler. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

Grate a half cup of chocolate, mix with a half cup 
of milk, yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla, cool until chocolate and sugar are 
melted; let this cook, while making cake from one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, two cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoon of 
baking powder. Add to this the first mixture and 
bake in layers. 



COLD WATER FRUIT CAKE: 

One half cup of l)utter, one cup of raisins cut, one 
cup of brown sugar, one cup of citron, one-half cup 
of cold water, one and one-half cups of flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoon of baking powder, one teaspoon 
of cloves, one teaspoon of allspice, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon. 

SUNNYSIDE CAKE: 

One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, one 
scant cup of milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
two cups of flour, flavor to taste. 



LIGHTNING CAKE: 

One cup of butter, one cup of granulated sugar, 
three eggs, two cups of flour, half teaspoon of baking 
powder, grated rind of one lemon. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add lemon and beaten eggs, add flour and 
beat well. Spread inch thick on flat buttered pans, 
sprinkle with a mixture of granulated sugar, powdered 
cinnamon and a few chopped almonds. Bake pale 
brown in a hot oven and when cold cut in squares. 




'FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



92 



POTATO CAKE 

Two cups of brown sugar, three eggs, one scant 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one cup grated 
potato, one teaspoon each cinnamon and cloves, two 
cups of flour and one-half teaspoon of baking powder, 
one cup of walnuts, one-half cup grated chocolate. 
Bake in loaf. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE: 

One cup brown sugar, one cup of thick sour cream, 
one and one-half cups flour, two eggs, a small teaspoon 
of soda, raisins, orange peel, cinnamon and cloves. 



FRUIT CAKE: 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of strained coffee, four cups 
of flour, four eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons 
of cinnamon, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one pound 
each almonds, figs, raisins, and currants. 

NUT CAKE: 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter creamed 
together, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of sifted 
flour, one teaspoon of lemon extract, three teaspoons 
baking powder the whites of six eggs well beaten, 
two scant cups of English walnuts, stir well through 
the cake, bake thoroughly in flat tins, frost with 
boiled icing. 




DATE CAKE: 

One pound of sugar, yolks of twelve eggs, stir one- 
half hour, one-half pound of dates cut fine, small 
teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one 
le:non, grated rind and juice, two bars of sweet choco- 
late, eight soda crackers rolled fine, beat the whites 
and add lastly. Bake one-half hour. 

ORANGE CAKE: 

(3ne scant cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four 
eggs, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fulls of baking powder, grated rind of one orange 
putting the orange in last. 

RAISIN CAKE: 

One cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
three eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, one heaping 
cup of raisins (chopped if preferred), two teaspoons 
of baking powder and about two cups of flour, flavor 
with nutmeg or to taste. Put butter, sugar, well 
beaten eggs and milk together, then stir raisins in, 
dredge raisins slightly with flour to prevent them 
falling to bottom. 

X. B. — .\ cake with raisins needs a little more 
flour than one without. Cover with white frosting. 



BREAD CAKE: 

One cup of yeast bread dough, one cup of sugar, 
half cup of butter, one egg, one teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in one tablespoon of sour milk, one tea- 
spoon of different kinds of spices, one-half cup of 
raisins, one-half cup of currants, flour as for other 
cakes. 




"FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 




MOLASSES: 

Cream one-half cup of sugar and one tablespoon of 
butter, two cups of sour milk (half teaspoon of soda 
in each,) two cups of sorghum or syrup, add two 
cups of flour, into which mixture put one cup of 
raisins, or a half cup of raisins and a half cup of cur- 
rants, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, flour enough to inake a stiff batter. Bake in 
a slow oven for an hour to an hour and a half. The 
success of this cake depends on the oven. 

WALNUT CAKE: 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of sour milk, two and a half cups of flour, 
yolks of five eggs, one teaspoon of soda, one-half 
pound of stoned raisins, one pound of walnuts, one 
teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon of cinnamon, save 
24 half nuts for the top of the cake. 



CARAMEL FROSTING IF DESIRED: 

Une and a half cu])S of brown sugar, add five table- 
spoons of milk, boil four minutes, remove from stove 
and add butter size of a walnut, stirring until cool 
enough to spread. 

FRUIT CAKE: 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound 
of flour, 10 cents worth of each nuts, figs and dates, 
two pounds each of raisins and currants, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, 
nine eggs. This makes two good sized cakes. Bake 
A'ery slow. 

DATE CAKE: 

Beat well six eggs and a half pound of sugar, add 
six tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one cup of walnuts, 
one cup of dates cut fine, one half teaspoon baking 
powder and vanilla to season. 

CARAMEL CAKE: 

To make caramel place half a cup of sugar in a 
granite pan over the fire, stir continuously until the 
sugar melts and finally beconies liquid and throws off 
an intense smoke. Remove the pan from fire; take 
one-half a cup of boiling water, stir in gradually 
then place on the fire until boiled to a syrup. 



FOR CAKE: 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups of sugar. 
one cup water, two cups of flour, yolks of two eggs, 
beat for five minutes, then add three teaspoons of 
caramel, one teaspoon of vanilla, a half a cup of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder and the whites of 
two eggs. 

FILLING: 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, put 
over fire until dissolved ther^ boil quietly without 
sitrring until it threads from a fork. Have ready 
the stiffly beaten white of an egg, stir in boiling syrup, 
beat until cool, add one teaspoon of vanilla and two 
of carainel. 

" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 

94 




POTATO CARAMEL CAKE: 

Two-thirds cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two 
cups of flour, one cup of mashed potato, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, four 
eggs. Cream butter and sugar and yolks of eggs, 

add milk, mashed potato and some melted chocolate, 
enough to color the cake; then add the flour and 
baking powder and last the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff, then nuts as many as wanted, added just before 
putting the cake in the tins. This makes a large loaf. 

FILLING: 

One cup of sugar, four tablespoonfuls water, boiled 
till clear. Stir it into the beaten white of one egg, 
quickly, and add one-half cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped fine, and one-half cup cliopped walnuts. 




BOILED FROSTING: 

One cup of sugar and water enough to melt the sugar. 
Let it boil till it hairs when dropped from the spoon. 
(Don't stir). Then beat it in j;he white of one egg 
beaten stiff, until it is thick enough to spread. Add 
flavoring and about three drops of vinegar. 

ANGEL CAKE: 

To make a good sized Angel Food separate 11 eggs; 
beat the whites until they are light, but not dry; add 
a level teaspoonful of cream of tartar and beat again 
for five minutes. Sprinkle over, mixing carefully and 
constantly, a cupful and a half of granulated sugar 
that has been sifted; then add one cupful of pastry 
flour that has been sifted five times and a teaspoonful 
of flavoring. Mix this thoroughly but quickly, as 
if cutting the flour into the mixture. Turn into an 
Angel Food pan, put into a moderate oven and bake 
slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 



WHITE CAKE: 

Whites of nine eggs beaten very stiff, two cups of 
powdered sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one cup of milk. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

FRUIT CAKE: 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of inolasses, one cup of strained coffee, four cups 
of flour, four eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons 
of cinnamon, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one pound each, 
almonds, figs, raisins and currants 

FRUIT CAKE: 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, five eggs, 
one cup of coffee, five cups of flour, one cup of currants, 
citron and raisins, one cup of nut meats, three tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one teaspoon each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, juice and nnd of one lemon, 

SPICE CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter beaten to a 
cream. Yolks of five eggs, half cup of inilk, two cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, a little of 
each, cinnamon, cloves allspice, nutmeg and ginger. 




FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 




BRODT FORTE: 

One pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
almonds, one-quarter of a pound of citron, one table- 
spoon grated chocolate, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon each cloves and allspice, one small 
nutmeg, fourteen eggs, one-half pound of toasted 
bread, rolled finely, soaked in one cup of wine, stir 
the yolks and sugar very lightly, add other ingredients. 
Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix lightly. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oyen. 

DUTCH CAKE: 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, five eggs, four cups of flour, one teaspoon 
of soda, two nutmegs, one pound of raisins chopped 
fine. 



WALNUT CAKE: 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three egg 
yolks and two egg whites (well beaten), one -half cup 
of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three quarters 
cup of broken walnuts. Bake in a sheet 45 minutes. 

WHITE CAKE: 

One and a half cups of sugar, half cup of butter, 
half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of six eggs. Bake in two 
layers. 

RYE BREAD CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, and yolks of 10 eggs, beat to a 
cream. Add one and a half cups of grated Rye bread, 
one teaspoon of baking powder, one half a cup of wine 
or brandy, one cup of citron, one cup of walnuts, then 
whites of the eggs. Flavor with lemon. 

LADY'S CAKE: 

One-half cup of butter, one and a half cup of sugar, 
beat to a cream; nearly one cup of sweet milk, two 
cups of flour, one-half teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon 
of cream tarter, the whites of four eggs well beaten. 
Flavor with peach or almond. 




WHITE CAKE: 

4 egg whites, 
1 cup sugar, 
^ cup butter, 
i cup milk, 



2 cups flour, 

J teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon Lemon extract. 



SPICE CAKE: 

One cup butter, two cups brown sugar, two eggs, 
one cup cold water, one cup each of raisins and chopped 
walnuts, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon nut- 
ineg, one half teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons baking 
powder, three and one half cups flour. Bake in a 
loaf for one hour. 



FEATHER CAKE: 

1 cup sugar, 

i egg, 

k cup sweet milk, 



1 tablespoonful melted 

butter, 
1 \ cups flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 



" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 



'>6 



CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

One quarter of a cake of bitter chocolate, one 
quarter cup sugar, one quarter cup milk, one egg; 
put this mixture on the stove to thicken. One cup 
of sugar, one quarter cup of butter, three fourths cup 
of milk, one and one-half cups of flour. Two tea- 
spoons of baking powder in whites of three eggs. 

WHITE NUT CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three 
quarters of a cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one half cup of nuts. The yolks 
of the eggs, left from above, may be used in the fol- 
lowing cake : 

Four yolks of eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, nutmeg can be used 
as flavor, if desired. Bake in a square pan and use 
chocolate frosting. 




COFFEE CAKE: 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of butter, beaten to a 
cream; One cup of molasses, one cup of cold coffee, 
one cup of raisins, one cup of English Currants, four 
eggs beaten separately, one and one-half teaspoons 
of nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, two teaspoons of 
soda, four cups of flour. 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE: 

1 cup sugar. 
^ cup butter. 
■ 1 cup apple sauce, 
(Just as you use it on 
the table). 



1 teaspoon sugar, 
1 h cups flour, 
1 cup raisins. 
Spices to taste. 



SPONGE CAKE: 

Four eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, one cup of 
sifted flour, one teaspoon of baking powder; one-half 
a teaspoon of lemon extract, five spoonfuls of milk 
and a pinch of salt. Beat the whites of the eggs 
until stiff enough to stand inverted in a bowl, then 
beat into them slowly a quarter of the sugar; Beat 
the yolks with the remaining sugar just five minutes 
by the clock, add the milk one spoonful at a time, 
beating all the time, also add salt and extract. Add 
slowly this mixture to the whites, then fold in the 
sifted flour with powder, sprinkle top with granulated 
sugar and bake in a slow oven. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

One and one half cups of sugar, one half cup of 
butter, three eggs, one cup of milk, two and a half 
scant cups of flour, mixed with one and a half tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one half cake of Baker's 
chocolate. 

ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE: 

One half a pound of butter, four eggs, one cup of 
molasses, one pound of currants, one pound of raisins, 
one half pound of citron, three quarters pound of 
brown sugar, one pound of flour, one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon, cloves, and ginger, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, one wine glass of brandy, one- 
quarter pound of chopped almonds, a pinch of salt. 
Bake slowly three hours. 

" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR.' 




97 




CHOCOLATE CAKE: 

One-half a cup of grated chocolate, one-half cup 
of milk, one cup of sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
boil all together a few minutes, stirring until all is 
dissolved, then set away to cool. 

The cake batter is inade by using one-half cup of 
milk, one cup of sugar, scant half cup of butter, two 
eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. 
Beat altogether, add the boiled chocolate to the dough, 
bake in layers and put together with boiled frosting. 

YELLOW CAKE: 

One and one-half cups of flour, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, half a cup of sweet milk, two 
teaspoons of Royal baking powder, yolks of four eggs. 

CREAM CAKE: 

Mi.x one cup of cream, one cup of sugar and two 
eggs, one and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon 
of baking powder. Bake in tins in a moderate oven. 

NUT FROSTING: 

One cup of sugar, whites of two eggs, one cup of 
nuts,. Boil the sugar with a little water until it 
threads, pour over beaten whites of eggs and beat 20 
minutes before adding nuts. Place cake in a deep 
tin so that the frosting will be about three-quarters 
of an inch thick. 

NUT FILLING: 

Pound one cup of nuts fine, add one and one-half 
cups of sugar, one cup of cream, sweet or sour. Cook 
five minutes. 

GREEN APPLE FILLING: 

Grate four large apples, add juice and part of the 
rind of a lemon, one cupful of sugar. Let cook a 
few minutes, then add a beaten egg. Cool and spread 
thickly between layers. 

LAYER CAKE FILLING: 

One cup of powdered sugar, one-fourth cup of hot 
water; let simmer; beat white of one egg, mix with 
above and when cold add one-half a cup of chopped 
raisins one-half cup of chopped walnuts, one table- 
spoon of cocoanut, vanilla; frost top and decorate 
w-ith walnuts when long shallow pans are used. 

FROSTING: 

One cup of white sugar boiled with six tablespoons 
of water until it thr,;ads, the whites of two eggs beaten. 
Pour the boiling sugar into the beaten whites and 
when cool put in one teacup of raisins, one teacup of 
walnuts cut fine. This will spread two cakes. 




" FOR BEST RESULTS USE DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR." 





NUT FILLING 

One cup of sugar, whites of two eggs, one cup of 
nuts. Boil the sugar with a Httle water until it will 
thread, pour over the beaten whites of eggs and beat 
20 minutes before adding nuts. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING: 

One tablespoon of gelatine, sixteen spoons of cold 
water, i)ut over a slow fire until dissolved, then beat 
in one pound of confectionery sugar, beat until light. 

WALNUT CUSTARD FILLING: 

Put one cup of milk on the^tove in a granite basin 
and let come to a boil, add one egg or the yolks of 
two eggs, scant half cup of sugar, little vanilla, one- 
scant tablespoon of cornstarch wet in water; add 
one cup of chopped walnut meats, well mixed together, 
to the boiling milk; stir until it thickens and put 
between the layers of cake with boiled white frosting 
on top. 

FILLING FOR FIG CAKE: 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of water; boil 
until it will thread; let cool five minutes and stir 
into the beaten white of one egg; beat five minutes, 
then add about one dozen figs, chopped very fine. 

FROSTING: 

One-half cup of milk, two cups x>f sugar, boil two 
and a half minutes, beat to a cream. 




" DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 





ICES AND CREAMS 

ICE CREAM: 

Take yolks of seven eggs and four cups of sugar and 
beat to a cream; stir into this three quarts of new 
milk, then add four quarts of rich cream. When 
partly frozen, add one cup of sugar and whites of the 
eggs, whipped together, one large spoon of lemon 
extract and two of vanilla. This makes 10 quarts. 

ICE CREAM: 

Two quarts "of new milk, two quarts of cream, two 
pounds of sugar, twelve eggs. Dissolve sugar, in the 
milk, add yolks then the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
strain and freeze. 

ICE CREAM: 

Two quarts of cream, one quart of milk, 10 eggs, 
four cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flavoring, 
12 tablespoons chocolate. Boil the chocolate with 
the milk and eggs; beat the j'olks of the eggs with 
the sugar; after the sugar, chocolate and milk is 
boiled, add the yolks. Beat the whites and add the 
last thing before freezing. 

MAPLE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM: 

One cup of maple syrup, sniall piece of butter, 
boiled until thick, then add one-half cup of blanched, 
chopped English walnuts. 

SHERBET: 

One quart of sugar made into a syrup, one can cf 
grated pineapple, two oranges, two lemons (only the 
juice) strain and put in a one-gallon freezer. Add 
water enough to fill two-thirds full, and freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the whites of two eggs, beaten. 

ICE: 

One-half cup of brown sugar, four eggs, well beaten, 
one pint of milk, one pint of sweet cream, one cup of 
nuts. Heat milk and sugar together, then stir in eggs, 
let cool, then add the cream, after partly frozen, add 
nuts. Freeze by putting out of doors. 

PEACH ICE: 

Six large peaches, two lemons, one pint of sugar, 
one pint of water and two tablespoonfuls of gelatine. 
Heat the sugar and water until the sugar is dissolved; 
let it cool and then add the peaches, which have been 
run through a sieve, the juice of the lemons and the 
gelatine. Freeze like ice cream. 




'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



CARMEL ICE CREAM: 

Heat a pint of fresh milk in a double boiler, put a 
generous half cup of granulated sugar into the frying 
pan and stir it over the fire until cooked to a brown", 
smoking mass. Stir this into the scalded milk, mix 
thoroughly and remove from fire. When cold, beat 
into brown mixture a quart of rich cream, a pint of 
whipped cream, a cup of sugar and three teaspoons of 
the extract of vanilla. Turn into a freezer and freeze. 




SPANISH CREAM: 

Put a pint of milk on the stove with half a box of 
gelatine in. When thoroughly dissolved, boil and add 
the yolks of two eggs beaten with half a teacup of 
sugar. When it comes to a boil remove from the firq 
and add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth. 
Flavor to taste. 




SPANISH CREAM: 

One half a box of gelatine soaked in one quart of 
milk, strain, then add the yolks of three eggs, beaten 
with a cup of sugar. When it comes to a boil take it 
off the stove and add the whites that have been whipped 
very stif? with two tablespoons of sugar, flavor with 
vanilla and turn into the inolds. (Always ■ wet the 
molds or cups before putting in the mixture so it will 
turn out smooth, like jelly.)' Make the day before 
using. 



NUT CREAM: 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in a little milk, 
then set in hot water until it is thoroughly melted. 
Whip one pint of cream and the white of one egg and 
mix. Sweeten and flavor to taste, then add gelatine 
and English w-alnuts. Color half pink and pour into 
a mold. When it has hardened enough, carefully pour 
the rest over the top and set in a cool place to harden. 



LEMON FOAM: 

Take yolks of six eggs, one-half pound of powdered 
sugar, the juice and grated rind of two lemons, one- 
half an ounce of isinglass of gelatine, dissolved in as 
small a quantity of cold water as possible. Simmer 
over fire until it thickens, having beaten them well 
together. Whip the whites to a stifl" froth, add them 
to the mixture. When it is cold beat thoroughly and 
pour into molds. 



PINEAPPLE FOAM: 

One can of shredded pineapple, one cup of cream 
and whites of two eggs beaten .stiffly; two tablespoons 
of powdered sugar. Chill and serve. 

MOUSSE: 

Whip one quart of cream very stiff, add juice of any 
kind of fruit to flavor, sugar to taste, freeze and serve. 




" DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



101 





MAPLE MOUSSE: 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until light, add one 
cup ot maple syrup, let come to a boil, stirring all the 
time. Remove and beat until cold, then strain. Whip 
one quart of thick cream, add the whites of four ego^s, 
well beaten and stir into the syrup. Mix well, pour 
in mold. Pack in ice and salt four hours. 

CAFE MOUSSE: 

One quart of cream, two eggs one-half cup of ground 
coffee, over which pour one cup of boiling water, and 
let it steep 20 minutes on the back of stove. Beat 
eggs until smooth add one and one-half cups of sugar, 
then the strained coff'ee. When cool add the cream, 
whipped, and two teaspoons vanilla. Pack in mold 
and freeze four hours. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET: 

Mi.x one can of grated pineapple, one pint of sugar, 
one pint of water and the juice of a small lemon. Let 
stand while the gelatine is dissolving, pour two table- 
spoons of cold water over one tablespoon of gelatine, 
letting stand one hour. Add one teacup of boilin^ 
water to the gelatine. Put with the other ingredients'. 
Cool and freeze. Add the whites of one beaten egg. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM: 

Soak a box of gelatine in half a pint of cold water 
for two hours. Put one quart of milk in a double 
boiler on the stove, shave two ounces of chocolate, 
place in a pan with four tablespoons of sugar and two 
of boiling water; stir until smooth and glossy, then 
stir into the milk. Beat the yolks of five eggs with a 
half cup of sugar; add to the gelatine and stir into 
the hot milk. Cook three minutes longer, stirring all 
the tiine. On removing add two teaspoons of vanilla 
and a pinch of salt, strain, pour into molds rinsed 
with cold water. Serve with sweetened whipped 
creain. 

RUSSIAN CREAM: 

One quart of milk boiled, one-quarter box of spark- 
ling gelatine dissolved in a small portion of milk; six 
eggs beaten separately, the yolks beaten with a cup of 
sugar, then stir in gelatine and eggs into the rest of 
the milk, strain and pour over the beaten whites. Add 
a teaspoon of lemon. Pour into molds, place on ice. 
Serve with strawberries or pineapple 

CANARY CREAM: 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in one pint of water; 
strain and add to it the juice of three oranges, the 
grated rind of one lemon, yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten, one cup of sugar. Stir over a gentle fire until 
it thickens, then pour into a mold. 

SAUCE: 

Whites of four eggs, beaten very stiff; take a good 
sized cup of strawberry, raspberry or peach preserves 
and beat thoroughly; then add the eggs and beat 
together. Pile around the canary cream. 



"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 





l;>2 




MISCELLANEOUS 

OYSTER TEA: 

Select eight fresh oysters, chop them fine in a chop- 
ping tray, then turn them into a saucepan with a 
cup of cold water; set on fire and let come to boihng 
point, then simmer for five ininutes; strain and season 
to taste. Serve hot with a piece of toast or crackers. 

FRAPPE: 

One dozen oranges, one dozen lemons, six bananas.- 
all iTiashed, three and half cups of sugar, two quarts 
of strawberries, one quart mashed and one quart 
whole. Almost two gallons of water. 



A PLEASANT COOL DRINK: 

Two teaspoons of tea leaves, six cups of boiling 
water, boil five minutes, then strain and pour the 
boiling tea on two cups of sugar. When cool add the 
juice of four lemons, and four oranges minced. Slice 
into this five bananas. Fruit juice may be added 
to give color. 

FUDGES: 

Two Clips of sugar, one cup of milk or cream, one- 
fourth a cake of Baker's chocolate, butter the size of 
an egg. Boil sugar, milk and chocolate until it is 
thick and creamy, stirring constantly while boiling; 
add butter just before removing from the fire, then 
beat this mixture thoroughly (it will soon begin to 
stiffen). Pour into pans as it begins to grain. Mark 
and cut in small squares, set away to cool. 




HAZEL NUTS CONFECT: 

One-half pound of almonds, one-half pound of hazel 
nuts or filberts, whites of eight eggs beaten, one pound 
of sugar, tablespoon of cinnamon. Beat the whites 
very stiff and add nuts chopped fine. Bake in a slow 
oven on waxed tins. 

COCOANUT DROPS: 

One pound of cocoanut ,half pound of powdered 
sugar and the whites of an egg. Work all together 
and roll into balls in the hand. Bake in buttered tins. 



PINOChE: 

Three cups of brown sugar, one cup of milk, boil 
until stringy (about 20 minutes) add butter the size 
of a walnut, one teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of finely 
chopped walnuts. Stir until it begins to harden; pour 
into buttered pan and when slightly cool cut in squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS: 

One and a half cups of grated chocolate, four cups 
of brown sugar one and a half cups of cold water, 
butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon of very sharp 
vinegar, flavor with two tablespoons of vanilla just 
before reinoving from the fire. Do not stir but shake 
the vessel 'gently, while cooking. Boil on top of the 
stove over a brisk fire until it becomes brittle when 
tried in water. Pour into a well buttered and floured 
dripping pan and check off in squares while soft. 



'DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 




lo.s 





MOLASSES CANDY: 

One cup of light syrup, one cup of light brown sugar, 
cook until brittle in cold water, pour into a buttered 
pan. Pull as soon as cool enough to handle. 

Two quarts of syrup and 25 cents worth of sugar 
will make enough for 25 or 30 persons. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS: 

To tlie white of one egg add an equal quantity of 
cold water, stir in one pound of confectioners sugar, 
Havor with vanilla or leinon, stir with the hand until 
fine, then mold into small balls and dip into melted 
chocolate. 

SALTED ALMONDS: 

Blanch the almonds by pouring hot water over same 
and rubbing them until skins come off. Put in oven 
and brown to a nice brown, take out, stir in a tea- 
spoonful of olive oil and salt to taste. This is for one 
pound. 

CHEESE STRAWS: 

Five tablespoons of grated cheese, two tablespoons 
of flour, butter size of a walnut, one and a half table- 
spoons of cold water, salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Roll as thin as possible. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS: 

One pint oi milk, butter size of an egg, one cocoanut 
grated fine, or (dessicated cocoanut may be used), 
three pounds of white sugar, two teaspoons of lemon.' 
boil slowly until sti.lf, then beat to a cream. Pour 
into shallow pans and when partly cold cut in squares. 

COuOA FUDGE: 

One-quarter cup of, milk one and a half tablespoons 
of butter, one and a quarter -cups of powdered sugar, 
nine teaspoons of cocoa, pinch of salt, half a teaspoon 
of vanilla. Put butter and milk in a sauce pan and 
when butter is melted add the sugar, cocoa and salt; 
stir until dissolved and cook, stirring occasionally 
until it strings, which takes about eight minutes. 
Remove to a pan of cold water, add vanilla and beat 
gently until it begins to thicken, when pour at once 
into a buttered pan. When hard cut in squares. 

FUDGE: 

Two cups of sugar, one-half a cup of milk, quarter 
cake of chocolate. Boil until it waxes in water. 
Take from fire, add a lump of butter size of a walnut, 
one cvip grated cocoanut, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
stir until cold put into tins and cut into squares. 

PEANUT CANDY: 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, two 
teaspoons of vinegar (if you like). Boil until it hairs. 
Have peanuts shelled and chopped a little. Pour the 
taffy over the nuts in a buttered dripping pan and 
cut when hard. <• 




"DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



104 






^- — ^^J^/^(^- 



" DANIEL WEBSTER FLOUR IS BETTER THAN THE BEST." 



in! 



LIST OF CONTENTS. 



BREAD, ROLLS AND BISCUITS 

EGGS 

SOUPS 

FISH 

MEATS AND FOWLS 

VEGETABLES 

PICKLES, JELLIES AND SAUCES 

SALADS 

DESSERTS 

PIES 

COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS .. 

CAKES 

ICES AND CREAMS 

MISCELLANEOUS 



PAGES 



8-15 
18 - 20 
23 - 26 
29 - 35 
38 - 43 
46 - 50 
51 - 56 
59 - 63 
66 - 72 
75 - 77 
80 - 85 
88 - 99 
100- 102 
1 03 - 1 04 



INDEX. 



BREAD, ROLLS AND BISCUITS. 

Biscuits 11 

" •. . 12 

" Baking Powder 11 

" Baking Powder 12 

" Maple 11 

Bread .S 

9 

" Boston Brown 10 

" Boston Brown 10 

" Christmas 12 

Corn 10 

" Eastern Brown 11 

Entire Wheat 9 

" Graham 10 

Rye 9 

Rye 10 

" Salt Rising .- 9 

" Steamed Brown 11 

Vienna 12 

" White 9 

Buns 13 

Cakes German Potato . . 14 

" Indian Griddle 1-i 

" Johnny 10 

" Pancakes 14 

" Rye Drop 1,? 

•■' Sour Milk Pancakes. 14 

" Swiss New Year's 13 

Fritters 15 

Gems 15 

" Breakfast 15 

" Graham 13 

Muffins 14 

Muffins 15 

" Delicate 15 

' Good 15 

Plain 14 

Rolls, Parker House 11 

pocketbook 11 

■' PoCKETBOOK 13 

" Sugar 12 

Rusks 10 

Waffles 13 

Waffles 14 

Raised 14 

\ fast ^ S 

ZiPKUCHEN 12 

EGGS. 

Cheese Souffle 20 

Egg Balls 19 

" Tim bales \'^ 

Eggs, a la Martin IS 

Eggs. Baked 19 

" Curried 18 

Deviled 20 

Escalloped 20 

Fricasseed 19 

Poached WITH Spaghetti IS 



Eggs Scotch 19 

" Scrambled 19 

Omelet 20 

" Baked 18 

" Bread 18 

Rice 19 

" Spanish 20 

■* Tomato 20 

Swiss Breakfast Dish 19 



SOUPS. 

Dumplings for Soup. . 23 

" Liver 23 

" Potato 23 

' Potato 23 

' Potato 23 

Hamburg Soup and Steaks 24 

Xoodles 23 

Oyster Stew 25 

" Waldorf 24 

Puree of Chestnuts 25 

Soup, Black Bean 26 

" Chicken 24 

'' Cream of Salmon 26 

■' Greek 25 

Lima Bean 25 

■' Mock Bisque 24 

Pea 24 

Potato 26 

■' Sago 25 

" Salsify 24 

■' Tomato 25 

Tomato 25 

■' Velvet 26 

Wine 26 



FISH. 



Clams, a la Xewbl:rg 

Clam Fritters 

Codfish Balls 

" Balls 

Fish, Boiled — 

■' Boiled 

Chowder 

Chowder i4 

Creamed 30 

Creamed 33 

■' How TO Fry 29 

■' How TO Fry 33 

" Pickled 30 

■' Pickled U 

" Sauce 29 

" Sauce 33 

" TURBOT 29 

" TURBOT 32 

Fried Halibut >2 

Hollandaise Sauce for Fish. ... 30 

Hollandaise Sauce for Fish. ... 34 



Mustard Gravy for Fish ..••••.. 29 

Mustard Gravy for Fish ..•••■.. 33 

Oysters, Escalloped 31 

" Escalloped 32 

" Escalloped 34 

" Escalloped 3 5 

" Fried 31 

Fried 34 

Salmox Cutlets 31 

Cutlets 34 

" Escalloped 31 

" Escalloped 35 

Dressing 31 

" Dressing 35 

" Loaf 30 

" Loaf 31 

" Loaf 34 

" Loaf 3 5 

" Salad, hot 31 

" Salad, hot 35 

Shrimps and Peas 30 

Shrimps and Peas 33' 

White Sauce for Fish 30 

White Sauce for Fish 33 

MEATS AND FOWLS. 

Baked Beef Tongue 40 

Baked Ham 42 

Beef Loaf ; . . 41 

Beef or Ve\l Loaf 41 

Beefsteak and Tomatoes 38 

Croquettes 40 

Chicken 40 

Fracatelli 41 

Gollash 42 

Gravy 38 

Lamb Stew 43 

Leg of Lamb Roast 38 

Meat Brine 41 

" Croquettes 39 

" Croqi:ettes 40 

" Omelet 39 

Pressed Chicken 42 

Ragout 41 

Rolled Beef 3S 

Scrapple 42 

Soup Meat 38 

Sour Beef 40 

" Rabbit 41 

Stewed L\mb with Turnips 39 

Stuffed Veal Breast 39 

To Bake Chicken 39 

To Roast any Kind of Meat. ... 42 

Turkey and Chicken Dressing. . 40 

Veal Chop Stew 39 

" Cutlets Breaded 38 

" Loaf 38 

" Loaf 38 

" Loaf 39 

" Loaf 40 

" and Oyster pie 43 

" Ste w 39 

" and Tongue Cheese 40 

Venison (sauer) 43 

Wild Duck and Dressing 41 



VEGETABLES. 

Baked B e \ n s 46 

•• 47 

48 

49 

Corn 49 

Boiled Rice 49 

Creamed Asparagus 47 

Cream Potatoes with Cheese. . . 49 

Cream Potatoes 49 

CoR.N Oysters 50 

Cor.n Ragout 50 

Cucumbers and Onions 48 

Deviled Tomatoes 48 

Escalloped Cabbage 50 

Onions 48 

Fried Cucumbers 50 

" Parsnips 48 

Lettuce 46 

Lima Beans (dried) 50 

Potato a la Peas 47 

" Bars 48 

" Chips 49 

" Croquettes 48 

" Croquettes 50 

Puffs 48 

Potatoes au Gratin 49 

Sauce for Asparagus, Cauliflower 

OR Kohlrabe 49 

Scalloped Potatoes 46 

Stuffed Tomatoes 46 

" Tomatoes 46 

Swedish Rice 47 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 47 

PICKLES, JELLIES AND SAUCES. 

Apple Jelly 56 

Canned Cucumbers 51 

Chili Sauce 52 

" Sauce 52 

" Sauce 52 

" Sauce 53 

" Sauce (uncooked) 54 

Chow Chow 52 

Chutney Sauce ■. . . . 53 

Cucumber Pickles 54 

Gooseberry Conserve 55 

Mixed Pickles 51 

Pickles 54 

Mustard Chow Chow 53 

" Pickles 55 

Onion Juice SI 

Orange Marmalade 55 

" Marmalade 56 

Pickled Cauliflower 51 

" Cucumbers 52 

" Peppers 51 

Pickles 53 

PiCALILI 53 

Red Raspberry AND Currant Jam 55 

Spiced Currants 55 

Spiced Currants 56 

Sweet Pickle for Apples, Peaches 

OR Pears 51 



Sweet Pickled Peaches. ....... 52 

Tomato Catsup 53 

'' Preserves 56 

" Sauce 54 

■' Sauce for Pork Chops 

and Tongue 54 



SALADS. 

Salad A Good Dressing for any. 60 

" Cabbage 60 

" Cheese 63 

" Chicken 59 

Dressing FOR same 59 

■' Chicken 59 

" Chicken 62 

" Egg 59 

Dressing for same 59 

" Egg 63 

" Fruit 59 

" Fruit 59 

" Fruit _ 61 

" Grape-Xut 61 

" Mushroom 63 

" Peach 62 

" Potato 59 

Salad, Potato , 61 

Potato 62 

" Potato AND Cucumber 62 

" Salmon 61 

" Salmon 62 

" Salmon 1^3 

" Sweetbread ol 

" Tomato 6 1 

" Tongue 63 

Vegetable 62 

Boiled Dressing 60 

Cream Dressing 60 

Dressing 60 

Dressing 60 

French Dressing 61 

M.wonnaise Dressing 60 

DESSERTS. 

Almond Torte 70 

Apple Fritters 69 

■' Snow 72 

Baked Apple Dumplings 72 

Chocolate Blanc ^Iange 67 

Coffee Jelly 68 

" Parfait 67 

Date Torte 69 

Date Torte 67 

Fritters 69 

Fruit Balls 66 

Jelly Mold fiS 

Peach Flip o8 

Pineapple Tapioca 71 

Pudding 71 

Pudding, Bread 70 

Cream 66 

" Chocolate 70 

" Cocoa Meringue 71 

" Cornmeal 69 



Pudding, Egoless Plum 67 

Sauce for same 67 

Fig 70 

Yellow vSauce for same 70 

" Oatmeal 67 

" Plum 66 

" Queen of 72 

Snow 70 

Sauce for sam:;, ...... 70 

• Snow 71 

Sauce for Same 71 

" Snow 72 

Sauce for same 72 

" Steamed Suet 72 

Sauce for same 72 

Puffs, Cream 69 

" Cream 70 

•' Peach 69 

Puffs, Raisin 68 

Prune Whip 67 

Raspberry Flummery 71 

Rosettes 66 

Sand Tarts 69 

Sand Torte 67 

ScHAUM Torte 66 

Snow Balls 66 

Strawberry Shortcake : 68 

Steamed Cup Custard 67 

Tapioca Cream 68 

PIES. 

Mince Meat 76 

Mince Meat, Gree.n Tomato 76 

Pie, Apple 76 

" Cheese 75 

" Chocolate 75 

" Cranberry 76 

■' Cre.\m 7 5 

■' Date 76 

■■ Fine Apple •.....• 77 

" Lemon 77 

" Lemon (superior) 75 

'■ Lemon Cream 7 7 

" Mock Cherry 7 5 

" Orange 7 7 

" Pumpkin 76 

■' Pumpkin 7 7 

•' Ripe Currant 7 7 

" Sour Cream 76 

." Vinegar 7 5 

To KEEP Pi'MPKiN Fo:^ Pies 76 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUT?. 

Almond Wafers S2 

Blitzkuchen S4 

Card Cake 85 

Cookies 80 

80 

" Brown 84 

" Christmas.. 84 

Ginger 80 

•' Ginger 81 

Honey 85 



Cookies Nut S4 

" Oatmeal .SO 

" Oatmeal 85 

Peanut 81 

" Spiced 80 

" Thanksgiving 80 

" Vanilla SO 

" White 84 

White 84 

WITH Yolks of Eggs. ... 81 

Doughnuts 82 

" 82 

" . S2 

'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'........ S2 

85 

" Cream. ^^ 

GixGER Bread > "" 

Bread 84 

Drops 81 

Drops 84 

Snaps 81 

Jumbles 82 

Jumbles ^^ 

Kisses, Almond 8.S 

" Chocolate 83 

" cocoani^t 83 

Macaroons, Chocolate S3 

" Cinnamon S3 

Rocks SI 

81 

82 

'' Almond. . 81 

Oatmeal 84 

Spiced Nuts 83 

Trifles ' 83 



CAKES. 



Angel ■ • . ■ "5 

Apple Sauce "7 

Bread Cake *^3 

Brodt Torte '?6 

Brown Cake 8'^ 

Cake without Eggs ^0 

Caramel Cake QO 

Filling for same ^0 

Caramel Cake ^4 

Filling for same 94 

Chocolate Cake ' 89 

" " 92 

" '' [ 97 

" " 07 

" " ' 98 

"Layer" 91 

" Frosting 89 

Coffee Cake 07 

Cold Water Fruit Cake 92 

Cream Cake 98 

" Sponge Cake 88 

Date Cake 93 

" " U4 



Devil's Food 90 

Dutch Cake 96 

English Fruit Cake 97 

Feather Cake 96 

Fig Eclair 91 

" Filling 91 

Filling for Fig Cake 99 

" Green Apple 98 

Nut 93 

Nut -^ 99 

" Walnut Custard. ..'... . 99 

Frosting 98 

99 

" Boiled 95 

Nut 98 

French Layer Cake 88 

Fruit Cake 90 

Fruit Cake 93 

Fruit Cake 94 

Fruit Cake 95 

Fruit Cake 95 

Golden Cake 88 

Graham Puff Cake '. . . 89 

Hickory Nut Cake 91 

Lady's Cake 96 

Layer Cake 88 

" Cake Filling 98 

Lightning Cake 92 

Marble Cake 91 

Marble Chocolate Cake 89 

Marshmallow Icing 99 

Molasses Cake 94 

Is UT Cake 92 

Filling for same 92 

KuT Cake 93 

Orange Cake 90 

Orange Cake 93 

Potato Cake 91 

Potato Cake 93 

Potato Caramel Cake 95 

Filling for same 95 

Raisin Cake 93 

Rye Bread Cake 96 

Sour Cream Cake 93 

Spice Cake 95 

Spice Cake 96 

Sponge Cake 89 

Sponge Cake 90 

Sponge Cake 97 

SuNNYSiDE Cake 92 

Sunshine Cake 92 

Variety Cake 89 

W^ALNUT Cake 94 

Caramel Frosting for . 94 

Walnut Cake 96 

Whipped Cream Cake 91 

White Cake 90 

White Cake 91 

White Cake 92 

White Cake 95 

White Cake 96 

White Cake 96 

White Loaf Cake 89 

White Mountain Cream. 91 

White Nut Cake 97 

Yellow Cake 98 



iCES AND CREAMS. 

Canary Cream.. . . . 102 

Sauce for same. ... 102 

Caramel Ice Crea.m 101 

Chocolate Cream 102 

Ice ... 100 

Ice Cream . . 100 

Ice CREA>r.. . . 100 

Ice Cream . . 100 

Lemon Foam 101 

Mousse ... 101 

Cafk 102 

Maple 102 

Maple Sauce for Ick ("ream .... 100 

Nut Cream . . 101 

Peach Ice . . lOd 

Pineapple Fo.\m . . 101 

Pineapple Sherbet 102 

Russian Cream 102 

Sherbet . . 100 

Spanish Cream . . 101 

101 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

A Pleasant Cool Drink 103 

Cheese Straws 104 

Chocolate Caramels 10.^ 

Chocolate Creams 104 

Cocoa Fudge . 104 

Cocoanut Caramels — . 104 

CocoANUT Drops 103 

Frappe 103 

Fudge 103 

Fudge 104 

Hazel Xuts Confkct 103 

Molasses Candy 104 

Oyster Tea 103 

Peanut Candy 104 

PiNOCHE 103 

Salted Almonds l''»4 



.4 COPY of this book can he obtained by sending iis a coupon, 
such as will be found in each sack of D AX I EL WEBSTER 
FLOUR, together with fourteen cents in stamps to cover cost of 
mailing, wrapping, etc. 

Address '"Eagle Roller Mill Co., Xeiu Ulm, Minnesota,'' and 
your request will have immediate attention. 



Our Guarantees 

^If you are not thoroughly convinced that DANIEL 
WEBSTER FLOUR has produced the best bread you ever baked 
after you have used an entire sack of it, return the empty sack to 
the dealer, leave your name with him, and the purchase price will 
be refunded and charged to us. 

Eagle Roller IVIill CO. 

Ne-w Ulm, Minn. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




