

MARIA WILLETT HOWARD 



PRJCE $2.QO 




BOSTON 

PUBLIC 

LIBRARY 




^ 



COOK BOOK 

ILLUSTRATED IN COLORS 

A NEW GUIDE FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER, ES- 
PECIALLY INTENDED AS A FULL RECORD OF 
DELICIOUS DISHES SUFFICIENT FOR ANY 
WELL-TO-DO FAMILY, CLEAR ENOUGH FOR 
THE BEGINNER, AND COMPLETE ENOUGH 
FOR AMBITIOUS PROVIDERS ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

PREPARED BY 

ONE OF THE MOST EXPERIENCED AND SUCCESSFUL TEACHERS OF 

COOKING IN THE COUNTRY, AS THE LATEST FRUITS OF 

PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF THE ART 

MARIA WILLETT HOWARD 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVER STREET, BOSTON 

1907 






Copyright, 1907, 

By the WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

BOSTON. 



NortDoolj i^rega 

J. S. Gushing & Co. — Berwick & Smith Co. 

Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



INTRODUCTION 

We present this cook book with confidence that it 
brings up to date the modern possibilities of the table. 
It is prepared by a woman who has devoted her life to 
scientific and artistic cooking, and who has recently been 
honored by appointment to full charge of the culinary 
department of one of the most advanced colleges for self- 
supporting women in the country. She speaks with 
knowledge and authority. 

We hope the book will contribute something to the 
fine art of living in many homes, making those homes 
the happier and more attractive for the husband and 
children, and solving many a problem for brides and 
beginners. 

Thousands of our most valued customers cannot afford 
to prepare many of these dishes very often for their 
tables. But there are special occasions when we all feel 
that we can have the best for ourselves and our guests. 
This book will stand the strain of such occasions. 

There are hundreds of simple dishes here for all tastes, 
suitable for all pocket-books. With this book as a guide, 
it will be possible for any woman to live within her means 
and still have that infinite variety on the table which 
means so much for appetite and health, which we all wish 
for and which we wish for you all. 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

Boston. 

iii 



CONTENTS 

PART I 

PAGE 

Value of Food to the Body 3 

Methods of Cooking 5 

Just How 8 

Carving 12 

Marketing 16 

Dinners and Luncheons 21 

Butler's Duties. Garnishings 27 

Weights and Measures 28 

PART II. RECIPES 

CHAPTER 

I. First Course Dishes 33 

II. Soups 37 

III. Fish 64 

IV. Meats 76 

V. Vegetables 97 

VI. Cereals 109 

VII. Eggs 112 

VIII. Sauces for Meat and Vegetables . . . . 118 

IX. Entrees 128 

X. Bread 156 

XL Salads 172 

XII. Sandwiches 187 

XIII. Desserts 191 

V 



Vi CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XIV. Cake and Cookies; Frostings and Fillings . 246 

XV. Frozen Dishes .280 

XVI. Beverages 293 

XVII. Fruits and Nuts and Candy 299 

XVIII. Preserving 304 

XIX. Chafing Dish Delicacies 323 

XX. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent . . 332 

Bibliography 343 

Glossary . . . . 345 

Index 347 



PART I 



VALUE OF FOOD TO THE 

BODY. 
METHODS OF COOKING. 
JUST HOW. 
CARVING. 



MARKETING. . 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 

BUTLER'S DUTIES. 

GARNISHING. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



PART I 



VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 

" Food is that which when taken into the body tends 
either to build tissue or to yield energy." 

The chief offices of food are to build the material of the 
body, to repair the waste which is continually going on 
and to yield heat to keep the body warm. 

Foods may be divided into tissue-building foods and 
fuel foods. 

The tissue-building foods are such foods as milk, eggs, 
cheese, wheat, meat and the legumes. The fuel foods 
are sugars and starches and fats and oils. 

In order to keep the body in a good condition a 
combination of the tissue-building foods and the fuel 
foods is necessary, with a supply of water to dissolve 
them. About 125 grams of tissue-building foods and 550 
grams of the fuel foods is the amount required daily. 
A mixed diet, therefore, is the ideal diet for the healthy 
adult. 

The changing of the tissues and the assimilation of 
food are very rapid in childhood and youth, so that the 
system demands at that time an abundant supply of such 
foods as meat, milk and eggs. When middle age is 
reached, the amount of such food should be decreased. 
Otherwise the tax on the organs which take care of the 
wastes will be so great that disease will follow. 

Thus it is clear that people of different ages require 
different combinations and amounts of food. The kinds 
of food required to nourish the healthy body vary also 

3 



4 lowney's cook book 

with the sex, occupation and climate, as well as with the 
age and peculiarities of the individual. In order to judge 
of the relative value of food to the body it is necessary 
to find out what percentage of each nutritive constituent 
the food contains, how much energy it is capable of yield- 
ing, how much of the food eaten is digested, how much 
is absorbed, and whether the nutritive constituents are 
obtained at a reasonable cost. 

Farmers' Bulletin number twenty-three, published by 
the United States Department of Agriculture, will be 
found interesting to those caring to study foods from the 
above standpoints. 

The following menus for one day will supply food in 
the proper proportion, and the body will be well nour- 
ished : — 

Breakfast Dinner Supper 

Meat Hash Beefsteak Omelet 

Cornbread and Butter Creamed Cauliflower Baking Powder Biscuit 
Cocoa Riced Potatoes Pear Sauce 

Tapioca Pudding 

The nutritive value of food depends to a very large 
extent upon the cooking. Many raw foods are indigestible, 
but these same foods cooked are nutritious. The importance 
of proper cooking cannot be overestimated. 

Cooking changes the food so that the digestive juices 
can take care of it ; cooking improves the flavor and the 
appearance, thus making the food more appetizing ; and 
cooking kills disease germs, parasites and other danger- 
ous organisms. 

Dainty serving makes even cheap dishes more palatable. 
This stimulates the digestive juices ; hence food should be 
made appetizing in order to obtain the greatest value 
from it. 



METHODS OF COOKING - 5 

METHODS OF COOKING 
Boiling 

Boiling point is the temperature at which a fluid is 
converted into vapor, with the phenomenon of ebullition. 
The boiling point of water is 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 
In cooking, the term boiling means the cooking of food 
in a boiling liquid, and water is the liquid generally used. 
Rapidly boiling water is no hotter than when the agita- 
tion is less, but in some cases, as in the boiling of rice, 
violently boiling water is recommended for the purpose 
of keeping the grains of rice separated. The boiling 
point of water once reached can be held with a moderate 
amount of heat. 

Food is generally boiled by putting immediately into 
boiling water. This sears the surface, and keeps in the 
juices ; but if the water is to be used for soups, gravies, 
and so forth, the food is put into cold water and brought 
slowly to the boiling point. Salt is added to the boiling 
water ordinarily when cooking food, as it tends to keep 
the flavor in the food. 

Roasting 

Roasting, truly speaking, is cooking food before an 
open fire, so that roasting is seldom accomplished in 
modern kitchens. 

Baking 

Baking is cooking food by dry heat in an inclosed oven. 
The oven should be very hot when the food is first put in, 
then the heat reduced. 

In baking meats, basting frequently with hot fat will 
drive the heat to the center and make the meat juicy. 



6 lowney's cook book 

Stewing 

Stewing is cooking food in water kept below the boiling 
point, and is smilar to simmering. 

Fricasseeing 

Fricasseeing is a combination of sauteing and simmering. 
The food is first sauted and then simmered until tender. 

Steaming 

Moist steaming is accomplished by placing the food in 
a perforated dish over a kettle of boiling water and cook- 
ing until tender. 

Dry steaming is accomplished by placing the food in 
the top of a double boiler and keeping the water boiling 
in the lower part until the food is cooked. 

Simmering 

Simmering is cooking in water at 185 degrees Fahren- 
heit or 27 degrees below the point of boiling. This 
method of cooking is employed where long, slow cooking 
is desired, as in making stews, soups and so forth ; also 
for cooking tough cuts of meats. 

As a rule, in both boiling and simmering, the kettle 
should be tightly covered. 

Braising 

Braising is a form of cooking generally adopted for 
cooking tough meats. The food to be braised is placed 
in a kettle with a few slices of salt pork, some vegetables, 
seasonings and a small amount of liquid, either water or 
stock. The kettle is then covered closely, and the food 
cooked until tender. Braising is a long, slow process. 



METHODS OF COOKING 7 

Frying 

Frying is cooking food in hot fat, deep enough to cover 
the food. Lard, olive oil, cottolene or drippings may be 
used. The fat should be heated hot enough to brown a 
piece of bread a golden brown in forty seconds for cooked 
food, and in sixty seconds for uncooked food. There are 
various theories about the digestibility of fried food. The 
latest seems to be that food properly fried and drained may 
not be very indigestible. To prepare fat for frying, fill 
frying kettle one half full, and heat gradually. Avoid fry- 
ing too much at a time, as the temperature will be reduced 
and the food much more liable to absorb fat. Reheat fat 
after each frying. Drain the food on brown paper. 

Sauteing 

Sauteing is cooking food in a frying pan in a small 
amount of fat. Food is less digestible cooked in this 
way than fried food. 

Broiling 

Broiling is cooking the food on a greased broiler before 
hot coals or the gas flame. The broiler should be held 
very near the flame at first to sear the surface of the food, 
and should be turned every ten seconds for the first 
minute of cooking, and afterwards occasionally. 

Pan Broiling 

Pan broiling is cooking tlie food in a hissing-hot frying 
pan without fat. It is employed where it is impossible to 
broil, and may be better accomplished where two frying 
pans are used, and the food turned from one to the other 
every ten seconds for the first minute and afterwards 
occasionally, as in broiling. 



8 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

JUST HOW 

How to Crumb ; Egg and Crumb 

For crumbing, dried bread crumbs which have been 
pounded or rolled until fine and then sifted are best. 
The bread may be broken in pieces and dried in the oven 
or merely allowed to stand in the open air until dried. 

To prepare the egg^ break into soup plate, beat until 
yolk and white are well blended, season with salt and 
pepper, dilute with two tablespoons cold water and use 
for dipping. 

Food to be fried should be dried as much as possible, 
then dipped in crumbs, then placed in the egg, and 
thoroughly covered with the egg, then drained and dipped 
again in crumbs. 

It is an economy of time to crumb all of the pieces to 
be fried, then egg all, and when drained, to crumb all. 
This may be done in the morning and the food fried when 
wanted. In this case, allow the prepared food to stand in 
kitchen fifteen or twenty minutes before frying. When 
fried always drain on brown paper. 

How to bone Meat, Fish, Birds 

Legs and loins of lamb and mutton are the meats ordi- 
narily boned. The butcher will do it ; but if it must be 
done at home, wipe the meat, and with a sharp knife scrape 
the meat from the bone, being careful not to cut through 
the skin. Fish to be boned generally have the heads cut 
off ; then remove the flesh from one side of the backbone, 
and then from the other. 

To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, select undrawn 
birds, with head and feet left on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from legs by making an incis- 



JUST HOW . 9 

ion just below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer 
draw the tendons out one at a time. Loosen the skin 
near the feet and cut off feet. Make an incision through 
the skin from the neck to the tail, the entire leugth of the 
backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until the 
shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around 
the wing joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, 
then around the second joint and leg, cutting tendinous 
portion when necessary. When one side of backbone is 
boned, bone the other, then remove flesh from breastbone, 
on either side of bird. When flesh is all separated from 
bone, discard carcass, wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in 
original shape. The birds may be seasoned and broiled ; 
or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. Smalls are gen- 
erally prepared the former way, and large birds the latter 
way. 

How to clarify Fat 

When through frying, add a pared potato, cut in slices, 
to the fat, and let stand on back of range until potato has 
browned. Remove potato and strain fat through a cheese 
cloth. Fat clarified in this way may be used indefinitely. 

How to clarify Melted Butter 

Let melted butter stand in a dish on back of the range 
until the salt has settled, then pour off butter, leaving 
sediment in the bottom of the dish. 

How to avoid the Burning of Fat 

When fat is put on the range to heat for frying, put in 
a cube of bread. If the fat is forgotten, the bread will burn 
first, and the odor of the burned crumb will attract the 
attention. The burned flavor cannot be removed from 
burned fat. 



10 lownet's cook book 

How to try out Suet 

Cut the suet in small pieces, place in top of double 
boiler, cover, and cook over hot water until all the fat is 
tried out ; strain through a cheese cloth. This can be 
done in the oven if the top of the range is crowded. 

How to Lard 

Larding is accomplished by cutting strips of salt pork 
lengthwise with the rind two inches long and one quarter 
inch wide, and with aid of the larding needle drawing 
these pieces through the surface of the meat, taking a 
stitch an inch long and a quarter inch deep. 

How to test Fat for Frying 

Heat the fat. When a blue smoke begins to appear, drop 
in a cube of bread ; if the bread browns a golden brown in 
forty seconds, the fat is hot enough for any food which 
has previously been cooked. Uncooked food requires a 
longer time to fry; the cube of bread should brown in 
sixty seconds for such food. 

Food cooked in fat tested in this way should never 
soak fat if one is careful to put a small enough quantity 
of food in at a time — not enough to cool the fat. 

How to make Croquettes 

For meat croquettes, cold cooked meat should be freed 
from skin and gristle, and cut quite fine, then mixed with 
a thick sauce to as soft a consistency as it is possible to 
handle. Chill before shaping. For vegetable croquettes 
the vegetables should be boiled, then washed and seasoned. 
Chill before shaping. 

To Shape. — Allow one rounding tablespoon of croquette 
mixture for each croquette, roll into a round ball, roll 



JUST HOW 11 

ball in crumbs, then shape either like a cylinder or 

pyramid ; when all are perfect and uniform, dip in Qgg^ 
then in crumbs. 



How to prepare Sweetbreads 

Soak in cold water from the time they come from the 
market until used. Drain, cover with two cups cold 
water, add four cloves, one and a half teaspoons salt, two 
tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice, and a slice of onion ; 
simmer for one half hour, drain, cover with cold water, 
remove tubes and membranes. Broil whole ; or if for 
larding, dip in Qgg^ wrap in cheese cloth, and press under 
weight over night. 

How to care for the Refrigerator 

Select a large refrigerator, of simple construction and 
of hardwood, — the lining of zinc or marble and the shelves 
of slate or hardwood. 

To keep the refrigerator clean, remove instantly any 
food spilled in any of the compartments. Wash the ice 
compartment and food chambers at least once a week with 
hot soapsuds, and for economy's sake do this when the 
ice is low. Pour boiling water down the waste pipe. Sal 
soda dissolved in the water tends to keep every part sweet 
and clean. 

Shelves and all portable parts, when washed and 
scalded, should be placed in the sun to dry ; if this is im- 
possible, dry before a fire. 

Keep a good supply of ice, in the ice chamber; it is 
cheaper in the end. 

Never keep the doors or covers of the refrigerator open 
unnecessarily long ; it wastes the ice. 



12 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

A good refrigerator properly cared for should last at 
least twenty-five years. 

How to Caramelize 

Place sugar in clean agate-ware frying pan, and stir con- 
tinually until the sugar becomes a golden brown sirup. 

How to Poach 
Place food to be poached in frying pan half filled with 
boiling salted water. Cook below the boiling point from 
three to eight minutes. 

How to cream Butter 

Place butter in bowl, and mash against the sides of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until of a creamy consistency. 

How to cut and Fold 

Pour mixture into bowl, and cut through and through 
mixture with a spoon, then take up some of mixture in 
spoon, and turn spoon completely over, and fold under 
mixture. Continue this process until mixture is blended. 

How to crease Frosting 

When frosting is nearly cold, cut with a silver knife, 
wiping knife after making each crease. 

CARVING 

To master the art of carving one must understand the 
anatomy of the meat to be carved. 

The carver should insist upon having a sharp knife, a 
large platter, and sufficient space to move his arms. 



CARVING 13 

Whole Fish 

The carving of fish is extremely simple. Run the 
knife the whole length of the back fin, then cut from the 
back fin to the middle of the fish ; the flesh may then be 
separated from the bone. When one side is served, turn 
the fish over and carve the other side in the same way. 

The center of the fish is considered the best, as it is the 
fattest portion. The meat around the head and neck is 
decidedly gelatinous. 

Medium-sized fish, like mackerel, salmon, trout, and so 
forth, are cut through the bone, thus giving a piece of 
fish on either side of the backbone for each serving. 

Small fish are generally served so as to make four 
fillets, — two fillets on either side of the backbone. 

Beef 

For carving roast beef, a long, broad-bladed knife is re- 
quired. Always cut across the grain of the meat ; never 
with the grain. 

The joint of beef known as the Porterhouse roast or 
sirloin roast consists of the sirloin, the tenderloin, and the 
flank. The flank is tough, and if roasted, with the meat, 
is generally used for some made dish, such as croquettes, or 
hashed meat on toast ; it is seldom carved at the table. 

The tenderloin and sirloin must be carved against the 
grain. Cut thin slices parallel with the vertebrae, then 
cut close to the backbone, thus separating the slices. Rib 
roasts are carved in the same way as the sirloin. 

Moiled ribs and round of beef are carved in round 
slices as thin as possible, each slice having considerable 
fat mixed with the lean. 

Beef steaks are carved across the grain. 

Sirloin Steak. — Cut slices at right angles to the ver- 
tebrae in both the sirloin and the tenderloin, then separate. 



14 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Lamb and Mutton 

A leg of mutton is considered by many the most diffi- 
cult piece of meat to carve. If the hip bone is removed, 
the carving of this joint is simple, but it is usually left in. 
Place the leg on the platter, with the skin side next the 
platter. Carve from the hip bone across the leg; these 
will be the largest slices, as they come from the part of the 
joint which has the most meat. The portions near the 
knuckle are to be carved in the same way ; they will not 
be so rare as the thicker slices. Chops may be cut from 
the upper part of the leg. 

Fore Quarter of Mutton or Lamb. — Remove the fore leg 
and the shoulder, then separate the rib chops. Every 
part of the fore quarter of lamb is sweet and tender, but 
the neck in the fore quarter of mutton should be used only 
for stewing. In carving the shoulder of either lamb or 
mutton, one must study the meat before cooking. 

The Saddle of Mutton. — There are several ways of carv- 
ing this joint. The fat, tenderloin, and kidney should all 
be removed in one piece. 

The most popular way is to cut long slices parallel with 
the backbone, on the portion nearest the tail, and slices 
diagonally on the portion nearest the neck. 

The Loin of Mutton. — Generally this joint is carved by 
merely separating the chops, but it may be carved in the 
same manner as the saddle of mutton. 



Veal 

Fillet of Veal. — This cut is carved like the round of beef. 

Shoulder of Veal. — The shoulder is often boned and 
stuffed. In that case, cut through the meat from side to 
side. If the bone is left in, carve in the same manner as 
the shoulder of mutton. 



CARVING 16 

Loin of Veal. — This cut is often stuffed, and the kidney 
is always cooked with the meat. Carve the same as the 
sirloin of beef, in large, thin slices. 



Pork 

Pork Spare Ribs. — Serve one rib to each person. 

Loin of Pork. — Chops may be carved and served, or the 
roast may be carved exactly like the sirloin of beef. 

Roast Ham. — Cut through the meat to the bone, using 
the portion nearest the knuckle first. Ham should be cut 
in very thin slices. 

Tongue. — The small end of the tongue is inferior to the 
thicker portion. Cut slices crosswise of the tongue and 
serve a slice from both portions to each person. 

Roast Pig. — Place the head of the pig at the right hand 
of the carver. Cut off the ears, then the head ; cut the 
head in halves. Cut the whole length of the backbone, 
dividing the creature in two pieces. 

Cut off the leg of one half, then separate the shoulder 
from the body. Carve the ribs and loin at right angles 
with the backbone. Cut the other half in the same way. 
Young pig meat is very tender and the bones are soft, so 
that carving is an easy matter. 

Poultry and Game 

To carve Poultry. — Place the bird on the platter, with 
the head to the left and the side toward the carver. In- 
sert the fork across the center of the breastbone. Remove 
the wing, then the leg, then the side bone between leg and 
body. Cut slices from the breast, running from breast- 
bone to place from which wing was removed. Remove 
wishbone by cutting from end of breast to the left of the 



16 lowney's cook book 

wing joint. Make an incision to the right of breastbone 
for removing stuffing. 

Remove fork from breastbone and cut the leg in small 
portions. Serve a slice of light and a slice of dark meat 
to each person. 

Serve one side of bird before carving the other side. 

Broiled Chicken. — Cut through the breast and cut in 
halves at right angles with the top of leg. But if birds 
are small, serve one to each person. 

To carve a Duck. — Cut off the wing and the leg the 
same as for poultry. Cut the breast meat parallel with 
the breastbone, beginning at the side between the wing 
joint and the thigh. 

To carve a Goose. — Carve in the same manner as a roast 
duck, but cut the leg into sev^eral portions. 

Grrouse and Partridge. — These birds are carved like 
goose, although sometimes the breast is separated from the 
bone and one half breast is served to each person. 

Pigeons, quails, and small birds are served whole and 
generally on toast. 

MARKETING 

The term marketing means to the ordinary housekeeper 
the buying of meats and vegetables only, but the buying 
of all articles necessary for housekeeping should be in- 
cluded under this head. 

In order to market well the housekeeper must know 
what articles to buy in quantity and when to buy to the 
best advantage. 

It is much more economical proportionately to buy for 
a large family than for a small one. 

Staple articles such as bread flour, rice, spices, and so 
forth, should be bought in large quantities. Vegetables 



MAEKETING 17 

which keep well, such as potatoes, squashes, turnips, and 
so forth, should be bought in the early fall to last until 
spring, provided there is a cool, dark place in which to 
keep them. Meats must necessarily be purchased as 
needed, unless one has a large refrigerator in which to 
hang them. 

Fish, with the exception of salt or smoked kinds, should 
be bought only when absolutely fresh. Fruits such as 
apples and pears may be bought in large quantities, but 
perishable fruits in small amounts only. 



Beef 

The beef creature is first divided into halves the length 
of the backbone, then each half is separated into the fore 
quarter and the hind quarter. 

In the fore quarter we have in Boston markets — 

Parts How Cooked 

Brains Stewed or Scalloped 

Tongue ' Boiled, Fresh or Corned 

Neck Stewed 

Sticking Piece Stewed or Baked 

Five Chuck Ribs Roasted or Broiled 

Five Prime Ribs Roasted 

Fore Shin Stewed 

Rattle Rand > ^ , t> -i j 

^ . , ^ >■ Corned Boiled 

Brisket ) 

In the hind quarter we have in Boston markets — 

Parts How Cooked 

Sirloin Roasted or Broiled 

Rump Roasted or Broiled 

Round Roasted or Broiled 

Hind Shin Stewed 

Flank Braised or Boiled 

Tail Stewed for Soups 



18 lowney's cook book 

Other parts of the beef creature used as food are — 

Parts How Cooked 

Heart Braised 

Liver Braised, Fried, Sauted 

Kidneys Sauted, Braised, Stewed 

Tripe Stewed, Broiled, Fried 

Suet Sauted and used for Frying 

A side of beef weighs on the average about 450 pounds. 

Beef when first cut is dark purple, but turns red on ex- 
posure to the air. Good beef has a heavy layer of fat on the 
outside, which is yellowish white and crumbly ; the inside 
fat is white. Best quality beef has a large percentage of 
fat and a small proportion of water. 

Lamb and Mutton 

Lamb and mutton are divided into halves, or " sides," by 
cutting the entire length of the backbone the same as beef. 
The fore quarter is divided into the — 

Parts How Cooked 

Shoulder Boiled, Steamed, Roasted 

Neck Stewed, Braised 

The hind quarter is divided into the — 

Parts How Cooked 

Leg Roasted, Braised, Boiled 

Loin Roasted, Broiled 

Saddle Roasted 

The best lamb is from a creature eight to twelve weeks 
old. Lamb may always be distinguished from mutton by 
the inner redness of the bone. Mutton should have a 
large amount of white hard fat, and the flesh should be 
fine-grained and pink to red in color. 

The strong mutton flavor may be lessened by removing 
the pink outer skin, and also by taking off the caul before 
cooking the leg. 



MARKETING 19 

Veal 

Veal is cut similar to lamb. 

The fore quarter is divided into — 

Parts How Cooked 

Head Boiled 

Breast Stewed 

Shoulder Stewed or Roasted 

Ribs Stewed or Roasted 

Neck Stewed 

The hind quarter is divided into — 

Parts How Cooked 

Loin Stewed, Sauted, Roasted, Broiled 

Leg Stewed, Sauted, Roasted 

Other parts of the veal creature used as food — 

Parts How Cooked 

Tongue Boiled, Braised 

Brains Stewed, Scalloped 

Heart Baked, Braised 

Liver Broiled, Sauted 

Kidneys Boiled, Stewed 

Sweetbreads Stewed, Sauted, Fried 

The best veal is from a calf six to twelve weeks old. 
The meat should be pinkish white, fine-grained, and ten- 
der, and there should be a large amount of fine white fat 
on the legs and around the kidneys. 

Pork 

Fresh pork is not so popular a meat as corned or salted, 
although fresh pork from a pig which has been carefully 
fed before killing is a delicate meat. 

The upper part of the fore legs, or the shoulders, and the 



20 LOWyEY'S COOK BOOK 

upper parts of the hind legs, or the hams, are salted and 
smoked. The sides of the pork creature are salted and 
smoked for bacon. 

The fat is removed from the loin and ribs, and these are 
sold for roasts or chops; the fat is pickled and used for 
salt pork. 

The head is used for making souse and cheese. 

The feet are sold fresh or pickled. 

The brains, livers, and kidneys are also used the same as 
those of beef. 



Poultry ajid Game 

Poultry- includes all domestic birds. 

In buying poultry, select birds which have been freshly 
killed and hand-picked. 

Pin feathers are found on young birds, and hairs on 
older birds. The birds should be short and plump, 
with considerable meat on the breast. Fat, but not too 
fat. 

Young birds have the cartilage at the end of the breast- 
bone soft and pliable. 

For roasting, buy poultry from three months to a year 
old. For braising, stewing, and slower methods of cook- 
ing, buy older birds, as they contain a larger proportion 
of meat than the vouuo^er birds. 

Game includes animals that are hunted in field or forest. 

Venison is cut like mutton. The meat is much darker 
than beef meat, and the fat is whiter; it is cooked in the 
same ways as mutton. 

Birds are sold with the feathers on, but have the mar- 
ket man remove them. All game is expensive, and so is a 
delicacy. In buving game, that which has hung three 
weeks or more is considered best. 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 21 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 
The Formal Dinner 

A formal dinner generally consists of ten courses, but 
may be eight or twelve. In order to have one harmonious 
whole, the different courses must blend well with each 
other. Avoid repetition; if oysters appear in the first 
course, they must not appear again. Observe these two 
points particularly in arranging the table: first, have the 
table linen immaculate and without folds; and second, 
arrange the covers with mathematical exactness. 

The table may be square, oblong, or round ; it must be 
covered with a soft pad, and then with the tablecloth, 
which should hang over the sides of the table at least one 
quarter of a yard on every side. 

The selection of guests for a formal dinner is extremely 
important, and the seating at the table so that all are con- 
genial takes some time to plan. Name cards should be 
placed at each cover. Eacli gentleman should be given a 
card, on entering the dressing room, with the name of the 
lady whom he is to escort to the dining room, and the 
letters R or L, also on the card, indicating to the right 
or left of the hostess. 

When dinner is announced, the host with the guest 
of honor leads the way to the dining room, followed 
by the other men with their ladies, and the hostess with 
the gentleman of honor brings up the rear. The guests 
all stand behind their chairs until the hostess makes a 
move to be seated; then the men push up the chairs for 
the ladies, each lady seating herself from the left of her 
chair. 

The decoration of the table should be simple and low in 
design and in the center of the table. A small flower 
may also be placed at the right of each cover. Of course 



22 lownet's cook book 

the colors of the flowers must harmonize with the china, 
but otherwise individual taste should be exercised. 

The illumination of the table is most important. If 
candles are used, they must be so arranged as not to 
interfere with the guests, and the shades so placed that 
they will slip down as the candle burns. If candle light 
is insufficient, try if possible to have the lights come from 
the side rather than from above. 

The Cover. — The place for each guest and the necessary 
plate, silver, glasses, knives, and napkin is called the cover. 

Arrangement of Cover. — Allow twenty inches for every 
person. Place a ten-inch service plate, having decora- 
tions, right side up, in the center of this space, and one 
and one half inches from the edge of the table. 

Arrange knives, edges toward plate, in the order in which 
they will be needed, beginning at the right. At the right 
of knives, place soup spoon, bowl up ; at the right of soup 
spoon, the oyster fork, with tines up ; the other forks, with 
tines up, at the left of the plate, in the order in which 
they will be needed, beginning with the extreme left. 

If there are too many courses to admit of all the silver 
being put on at once, extra silver may be placed at each 
cover just before serving the course requiring it. 

The glass for water should be placed just above the 
center of the plate, to the right, the wineglasses to the 
right of the water glass, in the order in which they are to 
be used. Place the napkins either to the left of the forks, 
or over service plate. They should be so folded as to hold 
a bread stick or dinner roll. 

The name card is generally placed on top of the napkin 
or over the plate. 

Serving the Formal Dinner. — The dinner may be served 
from the butler's pantry, having each course arranged on 
individual plates, and placed by the waitress, on the right 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 23 

side of the guest, with the right hand, and anything which 
is to be served with the course, passed on a tray to the 
left of the guest and low enough and suificiently near to 
the guest, to be easily taken with the right hand. Served 
in this way, there is less interruption to conversation. 

Or each dish may be so arranged on a platter or 
serving dish on a tray that the guest may easily serve 
himself. Served in this way, the waitress places plates 
before each guest before passing the courses. 

At present the service plate is quite universally used ; 
that is, the space in front of the guest is always occupied 
with a plate. When the waitress removes the course plate 
with the left hand, she places another plate with the right 
hand. In this way of serving, the tray, if used at all, is 
only used when the food is passed, not for removing 
dishes. 

Removal of Courses. — When every one has finished, 
the waitress removes one plate at a time, beginning with 
the hostess or with the guest at the right of the hostess. 

Before the dessert, everything not needed for this 
course should be removed from the table ; if there are 
crumbs, they should be carefully brushed with a napkin 
on to a plate or tray. After this is accomplished, place 
the dessert dishes from the right. While the dessert is 
being eaten, the finger bowls, filled one third full of tepid 
water, with a slice of lemon or a geranium leaf or a flower 
in it, set on a doily on a plate, may be placed in front of 
and above the dessert plate. When the dessert plate is 
removed, the finger bowl is moved into the space. If fruit 
follows the dessert, the guest removes the finger bowl and 
doily from the plate and uses that plate for the fruit. 

If coffee is served in the dining room, the finger bowls 
are not placed until after the coffee, but coffee is usually 
served in the drawing room. 



24 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Order of Service. — The guests on the right of the host 
and hostess are served first in the first course, in the sec- 
ond course the guests on the left, in the third course the 
second guest on the right of the host and hostess, and so 
on in rotation, so that no guest is served twice first. 
Some hostesses insist upon being served first. If the 
different courses are passed rather than served from the 
butler's pantry, this may be a good plan, but otherwise 
there seems to be no reason for it. 

MENU FOR A FORMAL DINNER 

First Course 
Oysters or Clams in Shells Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Second Course 
Consomme Croutons 

Third Course 

Broiled Trout — Maitre d'hotel Butter 

Cucumbers 

Fourth Course 

Croquettes or Sweetbreads 

Fifth Course 

Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly Potatoes 

Peas in Fontage Cups 

Sixth Course 
Punch 

Seventh Course 
Broiled Quail with Chestnut Puree Tomato Salad 

Eighth Course 
Bombe Glace Sponge Cake 

Ninth Course 
Fruit and Bonbons 

Tenth Course 
Black Coffee 

Salted almonds and bonbons to be on the table all the time. 
Celery to be passed with oysters- 
Radishes or olives to be passed with fish course. 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 25 



When and How to serve Wines 

Saiiterne slightly cold with oysters. 

Sherry slightly cold with soup. 

Rhine Wine not very cold with fish. 

Claret slightly cold with entrees. 

Champagne very cold with poultry and meats. 

Burgundy a little warm with game. 

Burgundy and Champagne with salads. 

Port Wine or Madeira temperature of wine cellar with desserts. 

Cordials and brandies with coffee. 



Courses 

First Course. — Appetizers, cold hors-d'oeuvres, eaten 
preliminary to the dinner, supposed to stimulate the flow 
of the digestive juices and create an appetite. 

Second Course. — Oysters or Shellfish. Salt, pepper, 
cayenne, tabasco sauce, and tiny brown-bread sandwiches 
are passed with this course. 

Third Course. — A Clear Soup. Hors-d'oeuvres, such as 
celery, olives, radishes, or pimolas are passed with this 
course. 

Fourth Course. — Fish, boiled, fried, or baked; sometimes 
potatoes, and generally cucumbers or tomatoes dressed, are 
served. 

Fifth Course. — Entrees. 

Sixth Course. — The Meat Course, one vegetable besides 
the potato. 

Seventh Course. — Frozen Punches or Cheese Dishes. 

Eighth Course. — Game or Poultry and Salad. 

Ninth Course. — Hot Desserts or Cold Desserts. 

Tenth Course. — Frozen Desserts, Cakes, and Preserves 
may be passed with this course. 

Eleventh Course. — Fruits. 

Tivelfth Course. — Coffee and Liqueurs. 



26 lowney's cook book 

The Informal Dinner 

The hostess serves the soup, and the host the fish and 
the roast. Vegetables, sauces, and entrees are served from 
the side. 

Either the host or hostess makes the salad, and the 
hostess serves the dessert and the coffee. 

The cover is arranged the same as for the Formal 
Dinner. 

The Formal Luncheon 

The table may be covered or bare. If bare, use doilies 
for plates and glasses. 

The arrangement of the cover is the same as for the 
Formal Dinner. 

Lighter dishes are served for luncheon than for dinner; 
entrees take the place of the roast. 

Soup or bouillon is served in cups. Fruit may be 
served for the first course instead of canapes. 

The hostess sometimes serves the salad and the coffee, 
but it is better to have all serving from the side. 

The Formal Breakfast 

This really is the same as the Formal Luncheon except 
that men are invited with the ladies, and coffee is served 
throughout the meal. 

The Informal Luncheon 

Like the Informal Dinner except that the roasts are 
omitted. 

When luncheon is announced, the first course may be 
on the table, and the dishes required for the remaining 
courses arranged on the side table. 

Seldom more than three courses are served. 

Tea, coffee, or cocoa are served throughout the meal. 



butler's duties 27 

BUTLER'S DUTIES 

A butler is generally given full charge of the dining 
room, as well as of the other men servants. 

He waits on the table at breakfast, usually alone ; but if 
the family is large or there are guests present, he may be 
assisted. 

He directs the washing of dishes and the cleaning of the 
silver. He prepares the salad. He attends to the bell, to 
the fires, to the lighting of the house. He makes and 
serves afternoon tea, and sets the table for dinner. 

He announces all the meals, serves the dinner, does all 
the carving. If he is assisted, he serves the principal 
dishes, and the assistant serves the vegetables and sauces. 

He is responsible for the safety of the silver, for the 
arrangement of the flowers and fruits, and for the proper 
serving of the wines. He has full charge of all refresh- 
ments served in the evening, and is responsible for the 
locking of the house at night. 

He alternates with the footman or waitress in answering 
the bell in the evening. 

GARNISHINGS 

It has been said that " what appeals to the eye generally 
appeals to the palate." 

Use care and taste in serving ; dainty service will make 
the simplest food most attractive. 

Never allow any food which looks unsightly to be 
served. Toasted bread, burned on one side, may take 
away the appetite, but toasted a golden brown on both 
sides, with crusts cut off and then cut in strips and served 
in between the folds of a fresh doily, will appeal to the 
most fastidious. 

Parsley is always used to garnish meats. Meats should 



28 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

be skewered into shapely pieces before being cooked, and 
served on dishes to display them well. 

Steaks and chops should be trimmed before cooking, 
then broiled evenly on all sides — never burned. 

Ribs chops should be garnished with chops frills. 

Slices of lemon, hard-cooked eggs cut in strips, chopped 
pickles, and parsley are used for garnishing fish. 

Cold sweet dishes are garnished mostly with jellies cut 
in cubes, and candied fruits, red cherries and angelica 
being the most popular. 

Nuts and raisins are also used. 

Ice creams are garnished with meringues and spun sugar. 

Cakes are garnished with nuts and plain and fancy 
frostings put through a pastry bag and tube. 

Whatever garnishing is used, avoid overdoing the 
matter ; the simplest is always the most attractive. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

4 gills make 1 pint 1 measuring cup = 2 gills 

2 pints make 1 quart 4 measuring cups = 1 quart 

4 quarts make 1 gallon 2 measuring cups = 1 pint 

All measures in this book are level. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material fill spoon and 
level off with a knife. 

One half spoonful is measured by cutting one spoonful 
through lengthwise. 

Table of Measures 

3 teaspoons = 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons = ^ cup 

2 tablespoons butter = 1 ounce 

1 cup solid butter = ^ pound 

2 cups flour = J pound 
9 large eggs = 1 pound 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Table of Proportions 

1 cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread 
1 cup liquid to 2 cups flour for muffins 
1 cup liquid to 1 cup flour for batters 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses 
\ teaspoon salt to 4 cups custard 

2 teaspoons salt to 4 cups water 

I teaspoon salt to 1 cup white sauce 
^ teaspoon pepper to 1 cup white sauce. 



29 



PART II 



RECIPES 



PART II 

— ♦ — 

CHAPTER I 
FIRST-COURSE DISHES 

Canapes 

Canapes are made from white, graham, and brown bread, 
sliced very thin and cut in various shapes. They may be 
dipped in melted butter, toasted or fried. The slices may 
be covered with any of the following mixtures. Served 
hot or cold. 

Anchovy Canapes 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, cut in circles, 
dip in melted butter, sprinkle with salt and cayenne, 
spread with anchovy paste, and sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

Caviare Canapes 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices, cut slices four inches 
long and two inches wide. Fry in deep fat, or toast. 
Spread toast with caviare paste, sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice and paprika. Garnish with finely chopped 
green or red pepper. 

Cheese Canapes 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices, spread lightly with 
French mustard, sprinkle with grated cheese and finely 
chopped olives. Or brown in oven before sprinkling with 
olives. 

33 



34 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Crab Canapes 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, three inches 
long, and one inch and a half wide. Spread with butter 
and brown in oven. Mix one cup chopped crab meat, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, two drops tabasco, one half tea- 
spoon salt, a few drops of onion juice, and two tablespoons 
olive oil. Mark the bread diagonally in four sections and 
spread them alternately with melted cheese and crab mix- 
ture. Separate sections with finely chopped pimento. 

Bacon Canapes 

Cut bread in triangles one fourth inch thick, saute in 

bacon fat. Spread with French mustard, cover with 

cooked bacon finely chopped, and sprinkle with finely 

chopped pimolas. 

Ham Canapes 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, then in cir- 
cles. Saute in butter. Spread with finely chopped ham 
mixed to a paste with creamed butter and seasoned highly. 
Sprinkle with finely chopped, hard-cooked eggs. 

Lobster Canapes 

Cut bread in one-fourth-inch slices ; shape with dough- 
nut cutter. Cream two tablespoons butter, add one cup 
finely chopped lobster meat, one teaspoon mustard, few 
drops Worcestershire sauce, few grains cayenne, and six 
olives finely chopped. Saute bread in butter and spread 
with above mixture. 

Salmon Canapes 

Shape bread, cut one fourth inch thick, with a cooky 
cutter. Spread with butter and brown in the oven. Ar- 
range around the outer edge of the circle finely chopped 



FIRST-COUESE DISHES 35 

truffles. Next finely chopped white of egg. Next yolk 
of egg which has been pressed through a sieve. Then 
finely flaked salmon. Garnish salmon with a small sprig 
of parsley. 

Just before serving pour over a few drops of olive oil 
or place a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on the salmon. 

Sardine Canapes 

Cut brown bread in circles, spread with butter, and heat 
in the oven. Pound sardines to a paste, add an equal 
amount of finely chopped, hard-cooked eggs, season with 
lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Spread on brown 
bread. Garnish each canape in the center with a circle of 
hard-cooked white of egg capped with a teaspoonful hard- 
cooked yolk. 

Tomato and Cucumber Canapes 

Fry circles of bread in deep fat. Fry slices of tomato 
in deep fat. Place one slice of tomato on each circle of 
bread. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Garnish each 
slice with one slice of cucumber and hard-cooked white 
of egg cut in shape of petal, to represent a daisy. 

Nut and Olive Canapes 

Cut bread in crescents. Fry in deep fat. Mix equal 
quantities of chopped nuts and olives, with enough may- 
onnaise dressing to spread. Spread on fried bread, and 
garnish with small diamonds of pimentoes. 

Tongue Canapes 

Toast triangles of graham bread, spread with butter. 
Cut slices of cooked tongue in small pieces, mix with 
creamed butter to a paste, add two tablespoons capers to 
each half cup of tongue. Spread on bread. Sprinkle with 
salt and cayenne, and garnish with chopped water cress. 



36 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Clam Cocktail 

1 pint small clams 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

2 tablespoons Worcestershire 1 tablespoon horseradish 

sauce 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons lemon juice few drops tabasco 

Place clams in shallow dish after removing the black 
parts. Mix other ingredients. Pour over clams, and let 
stand for several hours. Serve ice cold in small glasses, 
as a first course. 

The clams may be mixed with the sauce and served in 
halves of grapefruit, in lemon shells, or tomato cups. 
Set on a bed of ice. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Follow recipe for clam cocktail, using one pint small 
oysters drained from their liquor in place of clams. 

Shrimp Cocktail 
Substitute one pint shrimp for clams, and proceed as for 
clam cocktail. 

Oysters on Half Shell 

30 oysters in the shell 3 lemons cut in halves 

6 teaspoons grated horseradish 6 teaspoons vinegar 
\ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

cayenne paprika 

parsley 

Open oysters ; loosen. Serve in shell on bed of ice, hav- 
ing the small ends of the shell point toward the center of 
the dish. Wash lemons, cut in halves, remove seeds, and 
serve one half in the center of each plate. Garnish 
with parsley. Mix horseradish, salt, vinegar, and to- 
mato catsup, seasoned with paprika and cayenne. Serve 
in small glass dish and pass to each person. 

Clams on Half Shell 
Follow recipe for oysters on half shell, substituting clams. 



CHAPTER II 
SOUPS 

SOUP ACCESSORIES 

Browned Crackers 
8 crackers butter 

salt cayenne 

Spread crackers with butter, sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne, and brown in oven. 

Cheese Crackers 
8 crackers grated cheese 

salt, cayenne butter 

Spread crackers thinly with butter, sprinkle with salt 
and cayenne, and cover with grated cheese. Cook in 
oven until cheese is melted. 

Crisps 

4 slices of bread butter 

salt cayenne 

Spread bread with butter or dip in melted butter. 
Sprinkle with seasonings. Remove crusts and cut in 
long narrow strips. Brown in slow oven. 

Rings may be cut from the prepared bread and browned 

in the oven. Three of the narrow strips may be inserted 

in each ring. 

Croutons 

Cut bread one fourth inch in thickness, rem-ove crust. 
Cut slices in strips, and strips in cubes. Dip in melted 
butter, brown in the oven or fry in deep fat, 

37 



38 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

SOUP GARNISHINGS 

Cheese Balls 

I cup butter I teaspoon salt 

f cup flour cayenne and paprika 

i cup water 3 eggs 

^ cup grated cheese 

Melt butter, add water, and cook two minutes ; add 
seasonings and flour, boil until mixture forms in a mass in 
center of pan. Cool slightly, add eggs unbeaten, one at a 
time, add cheese, drop from teaspoon into hot fat, drain, 
and serve immediately. 

Egg Balls 

4 hard-cooked eggs salt and cayenne 

1 raw egg yolk 1 white of egg 

flour or sifted cracker crumbs 

Mash yolks of eggs, add seasonings, and enough yolk of 
egg to form a paste. Shape into balls the size of a 
walnut, dip in slightly beaten white of egg^ dip in flour 
or cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve 
with soup. 

Rice Balls 

1 cup cold cooked rice 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
salt, cayenne, nutmeg 1 egg 

Press rice through sieve, add flour, egg and seasonings. 
Roll in balls, allowing a teaspoon for each ball. Cook in 
boiling salted water until they harden on the outside. 
Serve hot with soup. 

Marrow Balls 
4 tablespoons marrow salt, cayenne, nutmeg 

1 egg soft bread crumbs 

Cook marrow in frying pan, strain, beat, add egg^ season- 
ings, and enough bread crumbs to make of a consistency 
to shape. Form in small balls and poach in hot water. 



SOUPS 39 

Fritter Beans 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons milk 

1 teaspoon butter 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 teaspoon lard salt, pepper, cayenne 

Melt butter and lard, add milk; when boiling, add flour 
and seasonings ; cook two minutes, stirring constantly ; add 
cheese and eggs, cool, drop from teaspoon into hot fat, 
drain, and serve with soups. 

Noodles 

flour . 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt cayenne 

slight grating of nutmeg 

Beat egg. Add seasonings and enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Work on floured board until smooth and 
elastic. Cut a small portion and roll thin as a wafer. 
Cut in fancy shapes and cook in boiling salted water or 
soup stock twenty minutes. Serve hot in soups. 

This paste may be spread on the bottom of inverted 
dripping pans and baked in a quick oven. Crease before 
removing from pan. 

Noodle Balls 
Use Noodle Mixture, allowing less flour, shape into 
round marbles, and cook in boiling salted water twenty to 
thirty minutes. Serve hot in soups. 

Vegetable Cubes 

2 egg yolks | cup mashed peas 

I cup beef stock salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 whole egg nutmeg 

Mix yolks of egg^ whole egg^ peas and seasonings, add 
hot stock. Pour into buttered tin to the depth of one inch, 
set into hot water, and bake in slow oven until mixture is 
firm. Cool, cut in cubes, and serve in soups. 



4t) lowney's cook book 

Chicken Quenelles 

J pound chicken 2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons butter salt and nutmeg 

cayenne milk 

1 egg 

Chop chicken and press through a sieve. Soak bread in 
milk, press through sieve, add melted butter, egg slightly 
beaten, chicken, seasonings, and milk to make of the con- 
sistency to shape. Shape between two spoons, and poach 
in boiling salted water. 

Fish Quenelles 

1 cup fish salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 egg white ^ cup cream 

Chop fish and press through a sieve. Add unbeaten 
white of egg and cream beaten until stiff; add seasonings, 
and poach in boiling water. 

This mixture may be rolled in balls or shaped in tea- 
spoons. 

SOUPS 

Brown soup stock is made from beef and vegetables, or 
from beef, veal and foAvl, and vegetables. 

Veal with onion and celery and seasonings makes 
white stock ; or veal and chicken together, with celery, 
onions, and seasonings, are used for white stock. 

Cream soups are generally made without stock, milk or 
cream being the liquid used, the foundation made from 
fish or vegetables. 

Chicken stock is made from fowl, resembles white stock, 
but not quite so rich. 

The meats used for soups are the poorer parts of the 
creature — the shin, the round, the neck of beef, the 
knuckle of veal, and the whole bird of fowls. 

A bouquet of sweet herbs is used for seasoning soups; 



SOUPS 41 

it is composed of parsley, bay leaf, cloves, peppercorns, 
thyme and marjoram. 

Stock Soups 

Skill, patience and good materials are necessary for the 
making of good soup. In order to draw out and dissolve 
the nutritive and flavoring qualities of meat, cut the meat 
into small pieces, cover with cold water, and let stand at 
least an hour, then heat very gradually. 

For a rich stock allow one pint of water to each pound 
of meat and bone, having only one quarter pound bone 
and three quarters meat. One kind of meat may be used, 
or several kinds. If soup is made from remnants of cold 
meat, be sure to add a small amount of fresh meat to give 
added flavor. Remember that if the contents of the soup 
kettle are allowed to boil for any length of time, it will 
be almost impossible to secure a clear soup from the stock. 

How to clear Soup Stock 

Allow the white and shell of one egg for two quarts of 
strained stock. Beat the Avhite, add crushed shell and 
the cold stock, pour into kettle, set over the fire, and stir 
constantly until the boiling point is reached ; boil three 
minutes without stirring, then simmer for ten minutes, 
strain through sieve, then through a cheese cloth ; reheat 
and serve. If these directions are followed, an absolutely 
clear soup will be the result. 

To keep Soup Stock 

When the stock is ready to strain, strain into several 
receptacles ; a coating of fat will form on the top, which 
serves to keep out the air. This fat must be removed be- 
fore clearing the stock. Stock with a coating of fat will 
keep a week in summer and several weeks in winter. If the 
weather is very warm, scald the stock, then cool quickly. 



42 



LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Asparagus Soup 

1 can of asparagus or 2 teaspoons salt 

1 bunch of asparagus a few grains cayenne 

4 cups cold water 1 cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter 2 slices onion 

3 tablespoons flour \ teaspoon white pepper 

2 cups milk 

Wash asparagus if fresh and break off tips; break re- 
mainder of stalks into small pieces. Cook tips and stalks in 
cold water separately. When tender, drain; reserve water. 
Keep tips for garnishing soup. Press stalks through a 
puree sieve. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, add 
asparagus water, and thicken with flour and butter 
cooked together. Bring mixture to boiling point ; add 
cream and seasonings. Pour over tips and serve. 

Note. — If canned asparagus is used, drain, add water and cook 
in milk in a double boiler t\yenty minutes. Then drain and proceed as 
with fresh asparagus. 

Artichoke Soup 

2 cups scalded milk 
1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 
1 slice onion 
few grains cayenne 

Cook artichokes and onion in water till tender. Drain, 
press through sieve, and return to water. Melt butter ; 
add flour and scalded milk. Cook until mixture thickens. 
Combine mixtures, add seasonings, and just before serving 
pour on to beaten Qgg. _ 

Bean Soup 



1 can artichokes 
3 cups cold water 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 



1 cup Lima beans 
4 cups cold water 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 
1 s|)rig parsley 

1 stalk celery 

2 tablespoons carrot 



4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

3 cups milk 
salt and cayenne 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
\ teaspoon pepper 



SOUPS 43 

Soak beans over night. Cook beans, onion, parsley, 
celery and carrot in cold water ; when tender rub through 
a sieve. Melt butter ; add flour, milk and seasonings ; 
cook five minutes. Combine mixtures and serve. 

One cup stewed tomatoes added to this soup makes a 
pleasant variation. 

Kidney Bean Soup 

Use recipe for bean soup, substituting kidney beans for 
Lima beans and adding one tablespoon vinegar. 

Baked Bean Soup 

2 cups baked beans 4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups tomatoes salt, pepper, and celery salt 

2 cups water 2 tablespoons chopped pickle 

Cook beans in water ten minutes ; press through a sieve. 
Cook onion in butter five minutes ; add flour and season- 
ings. When well blended, add tomato, cook five minutes, 
strain, add bean mixture, reheat, and serve with chopped 
pickles. 

• If beans are very sweet, it may be necessary to add one 
to two tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar. 

Cabbage Soup 

1 small cabbage 4 tablespoons butter 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk | teaspoon pepper 

3 slices onion few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 

Chop cabbage, add water, and cook until tender ; press 
through a sieve. Melt butter, add chopped onion, cook 
slowly five minutes, add flour, scalded milk, cabbage 
mixture ; cook five minutes. Add seasonings, strain, and 
serve. 



44 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Carrot Soup 

carrots 1| teaspoons salt 

2 slices onion few grains cayenne 

sprig parsley 2 cups water 

I cup rice 2 cups scalded milk 

4 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Chop enough carrots to make two cups. Cook in water 
until tender. Press through sieve, reserving liquor. Cook 
rice in milk in double boiler. Cook onion in butter ; add 
flour and seasonings. Mix carrot mixture with rice and 
milk and pour on to butter and flour; bring to the boil- 
ing point, strain, and serve. Garnish with chopped pars- 
ley. If this soup seems too thick, thin with cream or milk. 

Cauliflower Soup 

1 medium-sized cauliflower 2 cups scalded milk 
4 cups cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter 2 slices onion 

4 tablespoons flour 1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons grated cheese few grains cayenne 

Cook cauliflower in cold water until tender ; drain, press 
through a sieve, add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter, 
add flour ; when well blended, add cauliflower mixture, 
seasonings; cook five minutes, strain, add yolk of egg 
slightly beaten, and cheese. 

Celery Soup 
2 cups celery 2 cups scalded milk 

1 quart cold water 1| teaspoons salt 

2 slices onion 1 blade of mace 
4 tablespoons butter cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour celery 'salt 

Chop celery ; cook in water until tender. Cook onion 

and mace in milk twenty minutes ; strain. Melt butter ; 

add flour and seasonings. Combine celery and milk 

mixtures, thicken with butter and flour cooked together, 

and cook five minutes and serve. 

Note. — Pieces of celery not suitable for the table may be utilized 
for this soup. The leaves and root of celery make a very good soup. 



SOUPS 45 

Chestnut Soup 
2 cups chestnuts shelled and blanched 

3 cups cold water nutmeg 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons onion 

^ teaspoon celery salt 4 tablespoons butter 

salt 2 tablespoons flour 

cayenne 1 cup cream 

Cook chestnuts in cold water until tender, press 
through a sieve, and add scalded milk. Cook onion in 
butter five minutes, add flour, seasonings, and chestnut 
mixture. Cook five minutes, add cream, strain, and serve. 

Note. — To shell chestnuts, make a cross on either side of the nut 
with a sharp knife. Put one teaspoon melted butter in dripping pan ; 
add chestnuts and cook in oven until shells come off easily. 

Cucumber Soup • 

4 cucumbers 4 tablespoons butter 
4 stalks of celery 4 tablespoons flour 

4 cups milk salt and pepper 

2 slices onion cayenne and celery salt 

1 tablespoon chopped pepper 1 cup cream or rich milk 

Chop cucumbers and celery; add onion and pepper; cook 
in milk in double boiler twenty minutes. Add flour and 
butter cooked together, and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes, strain, add cream, reheat, and serve. 

Corn Soup 

1 can corn or 1| teaspoons salt 

6 ears of corn celery salt and cayenne 

2 cups cold water 3 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons chopped onion 3 tablespoons flour 
2 cups scalded milk 1 cup beaten cream 

1 cup popped corn 

Cook corn in cold water twenty minutes. Press through 
a sieve ; add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter, add flour 
and seasonings, corn mixture, cook five minutes, strain, add 
beaten cream, and serve. Garnish with popped corn. 



46 lowney's cook book 

Onion Soup 

6 medium-sized onions 3 tablespoons butter 

3 cups cold water 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups scalded milk 1 egg yolk 

salt and cayenne 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon pimento 

Chop onions, cook in two tablespoons butter five 
minutes ; add water, cook thirty minutes, press through 
a sieve. Melt remaining butter, add flour, scalded milk, 
and seasonings, cook five minutes. Combine mixtures, 
add egg yolks slightly beaten, Parmesan cheese, and 
pimento. 

Pea Soup 

1 can peas 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups cold water 3 tablespoons flour 
1| teaspoons salt 3 cups scalded milk 

a bit of bay leaf 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

cayenne and celery salt 

Cook peas, bay leaf, onion, and cold water twenty 
minutes. Press through a sieve. Make a white sauce of 
butter, flour, and milk. Combine mixtures, add season- 
ings, and serve. 

Note. — Cold cooked peas may be used instead of canned peas. 

Rice Soup 

1 cup rice 2 cups cream 

6 cups cold water 4 tablespoons butter 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons flour 

.1 green pepper " salt, cayenne, and nutmeg 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Cook rice, onion, and pepper in cold water until rice is 
tender. Press through a sieve. Melt butter, add flour, 
cream, and seasonings; boil five minutes. Combine mix- 
tures. Add parsley and serve. 



SOUPS 47 

Sorrel Soup 

1 cup chopped sorrel salt and cayenne 

1 pint cold water 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs 

1 cup milk 1 cup cream 

4 tablespoons flour 2 slices onion 

Cook onion and sorrel in butter five minutes, add water, 
cook thirty minutes. Cook milk and flour in double 
boiler twenty minutes, add cream, beaten eggs, catsup, 
and strained sorrel mixture. Season and serve. 



Spinach Soup 

2 quarts spinach 2 cups milk 

6 cups cold water 1 clove of garlic or 

bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

1 teaspoon salt cayenne pepper and celery salt 

3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour 

^ cup cream 

Cook spinach in water thirty minutes. Press through 
a sieve, scald milk with onion and bay leaf, add butter 
and flour cooked together, strain, add seasonings, and 
spinach mixture; cook five minutes and serve. Garnish 
with beaten cream. 

Squash Soup 

2 cups cooked and strained squash 3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups milk salt and cayenne 

2 slices onion | cup cream 

bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon Liebig's beef extract 

Cook onion in butter five minutes, add flour, extract, 
- seasonings, and milk in which bay leaf has been scalded, 
cook five minutes; add squash, strain, add two tablespoons 
of butter, and serve. Garnish with beaten cream. 



48 lowney's cook book 

Potato Soup 

5 potatoes, boiled salt, pepper, and cayenne 

2 tablespoons onion 3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablesj)oons carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

I teaspoon celery salt 1 quart milk 

Cook onion and carrot in butter five minutes, add flour, 
milk, seasonings; cook in double boiler twenty minutes; 
add mashed potato, and serve after straining. One cup 
stewed and strained tomatoes or one fourth cup tomato 
catsup may be used to vary this soup. 

Tomato Soup 

1 can tomatoes 3 tablespoons butter 

2 slices onion 2 tablespoons flour 
2 sprigs parsley 4 cups water 

bit of bay leaf 3 cloves 

few gratings of nutmeg salt and cayenne 

Melt butter, add flour. Cook remaining ingredients to- 
gether twenty minutes. Press through a sieve and thicken 
with flour mixture. If tomato lacks flavor, season highly 
with Worcestershire sauce and tabasco sauce. 

Tomato Bisque Soup 

1 can tomatoes 1^ teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons chopped onion - J teaspoon soda 

I cup flour cayenne and celery salt 

I cup butter 6 cloves 

Melt butter, add onion, cook five minutes; add flour, 
milk, and seasonings, cook in double boiler twenty min- 
utes. Cook tomatoes, press through a sieve, add soda. 
Combine mixtures and strain. Serve immediately. If 
tomato is very acid, it may be necessary to add more soda 
to neutralize. 



SOUPS 49 

Tomato Soup with Stock 

1 can tomatoes 1 sprig parsley 

2 tablespoons chopped onion bit of bay leaf 

2 tablespoons flour 2 cups brown stock 

2 tablespoons butter , salt and cayenne 

2 tablespoons green pepper 2 tablespoons horesradish 

1 teaspoon lemon juice I cup cooked macaroni cut in 

rings 

Melt butter, add green pepper and onion, cook five min- 
utes; add tomato, horseradish, stock, and seasonings. 
Thicken with butter and flour cooked together. Simmer 
ten minutes, strain, add macaroni and serve. This soup 
unstrained would be a puree. 

Turnip Soup 

2 cups hot mashed turnip I onion 

1 cup hot mashed potato 4 cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons butter 

2 teaspoons salt | teaspoon pepper 

Mix turnip, potato, and scalded milk. Melt butter, add 
flour, salt, and pepper ; when well blended add turnip 
mixture and onion cut in small pieces. Cook in double 
boiler twenty minutes, stirring occasionally; strain and 
serve. 

Water Cress Soup 

3 cups chopped cress 4 cups milk 

4 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon beef extract 

1^ teaspoons salt cayenne and Worcestershire 

1 cup whipped cream sauce 

Cook cress, butter and onion together five minutes; add 
flour and seasonings. When smooth add milk in which 
extract has been mixed, cook twenty minutes, strain, serve, 
and garnish with whipped cream. 



50 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Vegetable Soup 
1 cup chopped carrot 2 cups chopped potato 

1 cup chopped turnip 1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped celery 4 cups milk 

1 cup butter or pork fat salt, pepper, cayenne 

Parboil potatoes ten minutes. Melt butter, add vege- 
tables, cook ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Add water 
and boil until vegetables are tender. Season, strain, gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

Black Bean Puree 

2 cups black beans 1| teaspoons salt 
8 cups water 6 cloves 

4 tablespoons chopped pork ^ teaspoon mustard 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 1 hard-cooked egg 

1 lemon sliced 

Soak beans over night, drain, add water, and cook until 
tender — four or five hours. Press through a sieve; cook 
pork in a frying pan; add onion, cook five minutes; add 
bean mixture; melt butter; add flour and seasonings; com- 
bine mixtures; strain. Garnish with egg cut in slices and 
lemon. 

A ham bone cooked with the beans is considered by 
many to be an improvement. 

Split Pea Puree 

2 cups split peas 2 drops tabasco sauce 

8 cups water 4 tablespoons chopped pork 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons butter 
1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

Soak peas over night, drain, cook until tender. Cook 
onion and salt pork together ten minutes; add to pea mix- 
ture. Press through a sieve, melt butter, add flour, milk, 
seasonings, and cook five minutes. Combine mixtures 
and serve. 



SOUPS 61 

Lentil Puree 

Prepare the same as split pea puree, substituting one 
and one half cups lentils for split peas. 

Potato Chowder 

3 cups potatoes cut into dice 3 cups milk 

^ cup salt pork cut into dice 1 cup water 

^ cup onion 1 tablespoon parsley 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour cayenne and celery salt 

Cook salt pork in frying pan ten minutes; add onion, 
cook ten minutes. Put a layer of parboiled potatoes in 
kettle, cover with onions and salt pork, and so continue 
until all potatoes and onions are used. 

Cover with water and simmer until potatoes are tender. 
Melt butter; add flour, milk and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes. Combine mixtures. 

If potatoes are very old, it is better to parboil them be- 
fore putting them with the onion. 

Corn Chowder 

1 can corn 3 cups water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 2 cups milk 

1 cup potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

i cup onion 1 tablespoon flour 

salt and cayenne I cup cracker crumbs 

Cook salt pork in frying pan five minutes; add onion 
and cook until yellow. Parboil potatoes five minutes; 
add to onion with corn and water; cook twenty minutes. 
Thicken milk with butter and flour cooked together. 
Combine mixtures; add cracker crumbs and seasonings, 
and serve. 

Succotash may be substituted for corn. 



52 lowney's cook book 

Clam Chowder 
4 cups clams 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups potatoes 1 teaspoon tabasco sauce 

I cup onion 2 cups boiling water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 4 cups milk, scalded 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 

Remove heads from clams and chop. Parboil potatoes. 
Cook onion and salt pork together ten minutes. Arrange 
clams, potatoes, onion, and salt pork in layers in the ket- 
tle; cover with boiling water, and simmer until tender. 
Thicken milk with flour and butter cooked together; add 
fish mixture and seasonings, and serve. 

Fish Chowder 

1 haddock weighing five pounds 4 cups hot water 

4 cups potato dice 2 tablespoons butter 

i cup onion dice 4 tablespoons flour 

1 cup salt pork dice 4 cups milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Remove head and skin and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin and bones with cold water; simmer twenty min- 
utes; strain. Reserve liquor. 

Parboil potatoes ten minutes. Cook onions in salt pork 
until yellow. Arrange in layers, fish, potatoes, onions, and 
salt pork; cover with water in which bones were cooked, 
and simmer until potatoes are tender. Thicken milk with 
butter and flour cooked together, combine mixtures, add 
seasonings, and pour over buttered crackers which have 
been previously soaked in cold milk. 

Caution. — Do not allow onion or salt x^ork to burn. 

New England Chowder 
4 cups clams or 4 tablespoons butter 

4 pounds haddock 2 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons onion 2 cups boiling water 

4 cups tomatoes salt, pepper, and cayenne 

4 tablespoons salt pork fat 10 buttered crackers 

3 cups potato dice 



SOUPS 53 

Cook onion in salt pork fat until yellow; add clams or 
fish free from bone; simmer twenty minutes. Parboil 
potatoes, drain, and add to fish with boiling water. Cook 
until potatoes are tender. 

Melt butter; add flour, tomatoes and seasonings. Com- 
bine mixtures, and pour over buttered crackers which have 
been previously soaked in cold milk. 

Lobster Chowder 
2 cups lobster meat 4 cups milk 

1 cup onion salt, cayenne, blade of mace 
\ cup salt pork fat 1 cup hot cream 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Cook onion in salt pork fat; melt butter; add flour, milk 

and seasonings, and cook in double boiler with lobster cut 

in cubes twenty minutes ; add strained salt pork fat, hot 

cream, and serve. 

Crab Chowder 

Prepare the same as lobster chowder, substituting crab 
meat for lobster meat. 

Shrimp Chowder 
Prepare the same as lobster chowder, substituting 
shrimps for lobster meat. 

Salt Codfish Chowder 

\ cup salt pork fat 3 cups potato cut in cubes 

2 onions cut in small pieces salt, pepper, cayenne 

2 cups shredded codfish 1 cup boiling water 

1 cup cream 8 crackers buttered 

Jt tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Soak codfish in cold water one hour ; drain. Parboil 
potatoes ten minutes. Cook onions in pork fat, add drained 
potatoes, fish, and one cup of boiling water; cook until 
potatoes are tender. Melt butter; add flour, milk, cream 
and seasonings. Combine mixtures, cook five minutes, 
and serve with crackers which have been previously soaked 
in milk, 



54 



lowney's cook book 



2 cups clams 

2 tablespoons onion 
bit of bay leaf 

3 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons flour 



Clam Bisque 

2 cups chicken stock 

1 teaspoon salt 
pepper and cayenne 

2 cups hot cream 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 



Chop clams, and cook in stock twenty minutes. Melt 
butter; add onions; cook five minutes; add flour, strained 
clam liquor; cook five minutes; add seasonings, cream, and 
serve. 



6 crabs 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons onion 
1 teaspoon salt 



Crab Bisque 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

I half cup boiled rice 

cayenne and blade of mace 



Boil crabs in water to cover twenty minutes. Remove 
meat, add rice, and cook in two tablespoons butter five 
minutes; add onion, cook five minutes, and press all through 
a sieve. Scald mace in milk. Thicken milk with butter 
and flour cooked together; add seasonings. 

Combine mixtures, reheat, and serve. 



Lobster Bisque 

2 cups lobster meat 4 tablespoons butter 

2 cups boiled rice 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups white stock 2 cups milk 

I tablespoon salt j)epper, cayenne and nutmeg 

lobster coral 2 tablespoons Madeira 

Cook lobster, rice and white stock twenty minutes; press 
through a sieve. Thicken milk with flour and butter 
cooked together; add seasonings. Combine mixtures and 
thin with cream to desired consistency. Garnish with 
lobster coral pressed through a sieve. 



SOUPS 55 

Oyster Bisque 
2 cups white stock or milk 1 cup cream 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley salt, pepper, cayenne 
blade of mace 1 egg 

2 cups oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cook oysters in white stock until edges curl. Strain, re- 
serve liquor, and chop oysters ; press through a sieve ; add 
butter and flour cooked together, seasonings, and cream ; 
cook five minutes, add to egg slightly beaten, and serve. 

Clam Bisque No. 2 
Substitute clams for oysters and proceed as for oyster 

bisque. 

Oyster Bisque a la Reine 

4 cups oysters salt, paprika, cayenne 

1 cup milk I cup cracker crumbs 

1 Qgg 1 cup finely chopped chicken meat 

2 tablespoons butter parsley 

dash nutmeg 

Cook oysters in their own liquor until' edges shrivel. 
Drain; reserve liquor; chop oysters. Melt butter; add 
cracker crumbs and milk. Cook five minutes; add season- 
ings; combine mixtures; strain thoroughly. Add beaten 
egg and chicken meat. 

Bisque of Shrimps, Bretonne 

1 quart shrimps 1 tablespoon carrot 

2 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons celeiy 

3 tablespoons butter I cup chopped mushrooms 
2 cups white stock salt and cayenne 

1 cup white wine 

Cook shrimps and vegetables in butter; add seasonings, 
white stock, and boil five minutes. Press through a sieve. 
Add wine and serve immediately. 

By adding one cup of cream and two tablespoons of 
butter a much richer and smoother soup may be made. 



56 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Bouillon 

6 pounds round of beef finely 1 small onion stuck with cloves 

chopped i cup celery 

3 quarts cold water \ cup carrot 

1 pound bones, cracked 6 peppercorns 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cloves 

1 teaspoon finely chopped red or ^ cup sherry 

green pepper 2 tablespoons butter 

Cover meat and bones with cold water; simmer four 
hours. Saute vegetables in butter; add to stock with 
seasonings. Cook one hour longer, strain, cool, remove 
fat, and clear. Serve. 

Brown Soup Stock 

Is made like bouillon, with the addition of three sprigs 
of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and omission of the sherry. 
If the stock is not sufficiently^ brown, add one teaspoon 
kitchen bouquet for each quart of stock, or one teaspoon 
of caramelized sugar. 

Many prefer browning a portion of the meat before 
covering with cold water, to give color to the soup. 

If this method is employed, use one quart less water. 

St. Germain Soup 

6 cups brown stock 1 can peas 

2 tablespoons onion bit of bay leaf 

1 sprig parsley salt, pepper, cayenne 

3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

Reserve one fourth cup of peas for garnishing; cook 
remainder of peas, onion, bay leaf and parsley in stock ten 
minutes; mash through a sieve. Make a white sauce of 
butter, flour and milk; combine mixtures, cook five min- 
utes, add peas, and serve with sip)pets of bread. 



SOUPS 57 

Consomml 

5 pounds beef ^ cup turnip 1 sprig thyme 
2-pound knuckle of veal \ cup onion 1 bay leaf 

1 small fowl 1 tablespoon salt 1 sprig parsley 

\ cup carrot 1 sprig marjoram 6 quarts cold water 

Simmer beaf, veal, and fowl in water four hours; add 
vegetables, salt, and herbs tied in a bag; cook slowly one 
hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, and serve. 

Consomme is the foundation for all clear soups, each 
soup taking its name from the garnishing which is used. 
Consomme with Barley 

2 tablespoons pearl barley 2 quarts consomme 
8 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

Cook barley in boiling water until tender; add salt, 

reheat in consomme, and serve. 

Consomme with Eggs 

2 quarts consomme 4 cups water 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Poach eggs in salted water. Place in a tureen and pour 
hot consomme over them. 

Consomme Claret 

2 quarts consomme 2 cups claret 

1 inch stick cinnamon 2 cups hot water 

3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

Cook cinnamon in consomme ; add claret and hot water. 
Beat egg yolks ; add hot mixture slowly to them. Cut 
and fold in the beaten whites. Serve immediately. 

Vegetable Consomme 

8 cups consomme 2 tablespoons turnips 

2 tablespoons carrots 2 tablespoons green peas 

2 tablespoons string beans 2 tablespoons asparagus tips 

Cut carrots and turnips in inch straws, add remaining 
vegetables, and cook in boiling salted water until tender ; 
add consomme, reheat, and serve. 



58 lowney's cook book 

Consomme a I'ltalienne 

2 tablespoons spaghetti 2 cups consomme 

4 tablespoons mushrooms 2 tablespoons butter 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water; when tender, cut 
in rings. Cut mushrooms in slices and saute with spa- 
ghetti in melted butter. Heat consomme, add spaghetti 
and mushrooms, and serve. 

Consomme au Riz 

8 cups consomme 8 cups boiling water 

\ cup rice 1| teaspoons salt 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender ; drain, 
pour over rice six cups boiling water to wash off starch 
and separate kernels ; add hot consomme and serve. 

Swiss Consomme 

6 cups consomme ^ cup turnip cut in fancy shapes 

^ cup carrot cut in fancy shapes 1 cup celery cut in small pieces 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons cold cooked chicken 

1 cup roasted chestnuts cut in slices 

Melt butter, add vegetables, and cook until yellow. 
Cook in boiling water until tender, being careful not to 
overcook. Drain ; add hot consomme, chestnuts, and 
chicken. Season with salt and pepper if necessary. 

Chicken Consomme 

1 fowl cut in pieces 1^ tablespoons salt 

4 quarts cold water pepper, cayenne and celery salt 

\ cup onion bit of bay leaf 

I cup celery sprig of parsley 

Cover fowl with cold water ; bring to the boiling point ; 
then simmer four hours ; add vegetables and seasonings, and 
simmer one hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, clear, and serve. 

If all the stock is not needed at once, remove fat from por 
tion required only, as fat prevents the stock from spoiling. 



SOUPS 59 

Chicken Consomm^ with Macaroni 
2 quarts chicken consomme | cup cooked macaroni cut in rings 

Reheat consomme and add macaroni rings. 

Chicken Consomme with Custard 

^ cup milk salt, cayenne 

1 slice onion bit of bay leaf 

I teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 egg 

6 cups consomme 

Scald milk with onion and bay leaf. Strain; beat egg 
slightly ; add seasonings and milk. Bake in shallow pan 
until firm. Cool; remove from pan; cut in fancy shapes. 
Heat consomme, add custard, and serve. 

White Soup Stock No. i 

1 knuckle veal 1 fowl 

1 onion stuck with 6 cloves | cup carrot 

1 cup celery 1 tablespoon salt 
water parsley 

pepper and cayenne 

Break the knuckle of veal in small pieces ; add cut and 
disjointed fowl and water, allowing one quart to each pound 
of meat and bone. Cook three hours, keeping below the 
boiling point. Add remaining ingredients ; simmer one 
hour ; strain ; cool ; use as needed. 

White Soup Stock No. 2 
6-pound knuckle of veal 4 quarts water 

2 pounds chopped veal ^ cup onion 

I cup celery 1 teaspoon peppercorns 

2 teaspoons salt 

Break knuckle in pieces ; add chopped veal ; cover with 
water ; let stand one hour. Simmer four hours ; add vege- 
tables; simmer one hour; add seasonings and strain. 

The meat used in this recipe or in white soup stock No. 
1 may be chopped and used for croquettes, souffles, veal 
loaf, or hash, but as it lacks flavor, the dishes must be 
highly seasoned to be palatable. 



60 lowney's cook book 

White Soup 

2 cups white stock 1 cup cooked rice 

2 cups cream 2 tablespoons butter 

salt and pepper 2 tablespoons flour 

Make a white sauce of butter, flour and cream. Add 

white stock, cooked rice, seasonings ; reheat, and serve. 

Chicken Stock 
Cook a fowl in cold water to cover; add seasonings, 
strain, and use for stock. 

Peanut Soup 
2 cups shelled and blanched peanuts 4 tablespoons butter 
I cup onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup celery 2 cups milk 

2 cups white stock salt, cayenne, paprika 

Chop peanuts in meat chopper. Cook chopped nuts, 
onion, and celery in white stock twenty minutes. Melt 
butter ; add flour, milk, and seasonings ; cook five min- 
utes. Combine mixtures, strain, and serve. 

Mushroom Soup 
4 cups mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups water 1 cup cream 

4 cups chicken stock salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons butter celery salt 

Clean and chop mushrooms ; cook in water until tender ; 
press through a sieve. Melt butter; add flour, white 
stock ; cook five minutes ; add mushroom mixture, cream, 
and seasonings ; reheat, strain, and serve. 

Chicken Gumbo 

1 chicken cut in pieces 1 quart green okra 

1 cup salt pork cubes 1 tablespoon chopped red pep- 
I cup onion per 

4 quarts water 1 bay leaf, sprig of thyme 

4 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons butter 

salt, pepper, cayenne 1 cup rice cooked 

1 cup cream I clove garlic 



SOUPS 61 

Cook salt pork in frying pan five minutes ; add chicken, 
and saut^ a golden brown. Remove chicken; add onion ; 
garlic, okra cut in slices, and saute one half hour. Add 
to chicken and cover with boiling water. Add red pepper, 
seasonings, and cook slowly until chicken is tender. Melt 
butter ; add flour and cream ; cook five minutes ; add 
chicken mixture. Serve garnished with rice. 

Oyster Gumbo 

I cup onion 1 tablespoon chopped red pepper 

^ cup butter 1 quart okra 

1 quart oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

4 quarts water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 chicken cut in pieces salt and pepper 

1 cup cooked rice 

Melt butter, add chicken, and saute. Remove chicken ; 

add onion, okra, pepper. Cook ten minutes. Add to 

chicken and cover with boiling water. When chicken 

is tender, add oysters and cook until edges curl. Melt 

butter, add flour, and thicken soup. Serve garnished with 

rice. 

Crab Gumbo 

Prepare same as chicken gumbo, substituting one quart 

crab meat for chicken and using the crab liquor. 

Mulligatawny Soup 

6 cups chicken stock salt, pepper, cayenne 

^ cup onion | cup cooked chicken 

2 tablespoons chopped cooked ham 2 cups tomato 

1 tablespoon carrot ^ cup green apple 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

1 teaspoon curry powder ^ cup boiled rice 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 lemon sliced 

Melt butter, add vegetables, and cook five minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients, except lemon, and cook one 
half hour. Serve garnished with lemon. 



62 



lowney's cook book 



Green Turtle Soup 



1 can green turtle 
4 cups brown stock 
4 cloves, 6 peppercorns 
bit of bay leaf 
blade of mace 



cayenne 

1 sliced lemon 



sprig each of savory, marjoram, 

thyme, and sage 
3 tablespoons butter 
I cup onion 
3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups brown stock 
\ cup sherry 

Separate the green fat from the rest of the turtle. Cut 
fat in cubes. Cook turtle and herbs in four cups of stock 
one half hour. Melt butter; add onion, flour, salt, cayenne 
and two cups stock ; boil five minutes ; add turtle mix- 
ture ; cook five minutes ; add fat cubes. Pour into tu- 
reen, and garnish with lemon ; add sherry. Serve. 



1 can terrapin 

4 cups white stock 
4 tablespoons butter 

2 egg yolks hard cooked 



Terrapin Soup 

salt, cayenne- 
blade of mace 

1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons flour 
^ cup sherry 



Cook terrapin, stock and mace twenty minutes. Melt 
butter, add flour, cream and egg yolks ; combine mix- 
tures, add sherry, and garnish with rice balls. 



Mock Turtle Soup 



1 calf's head 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons onion 
2 tablespoons turnip 
bit of bay leaf 

6 peppercorns 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons Madeira 
I lemon, thinly sliced 



2 quarts cold water 
2 tablespoons carrot 
2 tablespoons celery 
2 sprigs parsley 
2 tablespoons chopped ham 
8 tablespoons meat from calf's 
head 

1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups brown stock 

1 tablespoon mushrooms 



SOUPS 63 

Cover calf's head with cold water. Add vinegar, vege- 
tables and seasonings. Simmer two hours. Remove one 
cupful of meat. Simmer two hours longer. Strain ; 
cool ; remove fat. Brown butter ; add flour and brown ; 
add brown stock, strained liquor, chopped ham, calf's 
head meat, lemon, Madeira and mushrooms. Reheat 
and serve. 

Should it be necessary to keep the soup hot, delay add- 
ing wine until serving. 

Ox-tail Soup 

2 ox-tails 1 sprig parsley 

1 onion stuck with 6 cloves 2 tablespoons carrot 

1 cup salt pork fat 2 tablespoons celery 

2 quarts cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

pepper and cayenne 3 tablespoons Madeira wine 

1 cup brown stock 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cut ox-tails at joints, add onion, and saute in pork fat ; 
add cold water, and simmer four hours ; add vegetables 
and seasonings ; simmer one hour. Strain ; cool ; remove 
fat. Brown butter ; add flour and brown ; add strained 
stock, brown stock and meat cut from bones. Reheat, 
add Madeira, and serve. 



CHAPTER III 
FISH 

For convenience' sake we divide fish into two classes — 
vertebrate and shellfish. 

The freshness of fish is best determined by the odor. 
If the flesh of the fish is soft and flabby, the fish has been 
frozen, or has been kept too long. 

Fish Fillets 

Fish fillets are the flesh of vertebrate fish separated 
from the bone and cut into large or small pieces. 

Fish Force Meat 
Is the flesh of fish finely chopped and pressed through a 
fine sieve before being cooked. 

Fish Stock 
Is the seasoned liquid in which fish has been cooked. 

Garnishings for Fish 
Parsley, lemon slices, lemon baskets, lemon slices sprin- 
kled with finely chopped parsley, chopped red or green 
pepper, potato balls, olives, hard-cooked eggs, capers, and 
pickles cut lengthwise and spread to resemble a fan ; 
mashed potato and mushrooms, cucumbers and tomatoes ; 
maitre d' h6tel butter and water cress. 

Boiled Fish 

a 4-pound cod 2 quarts water 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped carrot bay leaf and clove 

1 sprig parsley i cup vinegar 

64 



FISH 65 

Wash and wipe fish. Cover with boiling water and add 
remaining ingredients ; bring quickly to the boiling point, 
and keep just below the boiling point until fish separates 
slightly in flakes — about thirty minutes. 

A fish kettle is the most convenient receptacle for cook- 
ing fish whole. If one is not available, use a piece of 
cheese cloth just large enough to cover fish and tie loosely 
with string. 

All other boiled fish may be cooked in the same way as 
boiled cod. 

STEAMED FISH 
Steamed Salmon 

Wrap four pounds of salmon in a piece of cheese cloth. 
Set in a plate in a steamer and cook until fish separates 
from bone — from forty-five to sixty minutes, according to 
thickness of fish. 

All other fish may be steamed in the same way, 

BROILED FISH 

Broiled Mackerel 

Wash and wipe fish ; grease a wire broiler with clarified 
butter, lard, or pork fat. Season fish with salt and pepper, 
place on greased broiler and broil over clear fire, turning 
every five seconds. If the fish is a thick one, hold at quite 
a distance from fire until fish is cooked through, then hold 
nearer embers to brown. Separate first, skin side, then 
flesh side, with sharp knife from the broiler. Remove to 
hot platter, garnish, and serve. 

FRIED FISH 

Fried Smelts 

Wash, dry thoroughly, and sprinkle smelts with salt, 
pepper and flour ; dip in beaten egg which has also been 



QQ LOWNEY'S cook BOOK 

seasoned with salt and pepper ; drain and dip in flour, 
meal, or sifted bread crumbs. 

The fish must be completely covered with egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, first testing fat with a crumb 
of bread, which should brown delicately in one minute. 

Smelts may be cooked with their heads on, or the back- 
bone may be removed and the fish rolled up in the shape 
of a muff, or they may be skewered in the shape of a ring. 

When fried, drain on brown paper and serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with lemon baskets filled with mayon- 
naise dressing and parsley. 

Any small fish may be fried in the same way ; large fish 
are generally cut in fillets, prepared and fried in the same 
way. 

BAKED FISH 

Baked Bluefish 

Stuffing 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon chopped pickles 

1 cup cracker crumbs or dried 1 teaspoon salt, few drops 

bread crumbs onion juice 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley ? to | cup milk or water 

Melt butter, add remaining ingredients, and stir lightly 
with a fork until heated through. If a dry stuffing is 
preferred, omit liquid. 

Wash and wip)e bluefish, stuff, and sew. Cut three 
gashes on either side of fish and insert a slice of salt pork 
in each gash (if desired fancy, pink the edges of the salt 
pork). Season with salt and pepper, brush with melted 
butter, and dredge with flour. Place on a greased fish 
sheet, or on two four-inch-wide pieces of cheese cloth. Set 
in dripping pan, surround with finely chopped pork ; bake, 
allowing fifteen minutes to the pound ; baste with salt pork 
fat. There should be sufficient in the pan ; if not, try out 
an additional quantity of pork. 



FISH 67 

When the fish is browned on one side, it should be 
turned, basted and browned on the other. To avoid this 
turning, many prefer to skewer the fish in the shape of the 
letter S, and place as if swimming in the pan. 

BAKED HADDOCK WITH OYSTER STUFFING 
Oyster Stuffing 
2 cups oysters 1 tablespoon chopped parsley salt 

\ cup butter 1 cup cracker crumbs pepper 

Drain oysters; mix crumbs, melted butter and parsley. 
Season highly with salt and pepper. Sprinkle oysters 
with salt and pepper and mix with crumbs. 

Remove head, tail and bone from haddock. Season with 
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Stuff with oyster stuffing 
and sew. Place on fish sheet or strips of cheese cloth in 
baking pan, dot with butter, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Bake, allowing twelve minutes to the pound, 
basting with melted butter, or after fish is stuffed, place 
in pan ; cover with buttered cracker crumbs and baste. 

Remove from pan to hot platter ; garnish with parsley 
and pickles, and serve with tomato, Hollandaise sauce, or 
Qgg sauce. 

BAKED FILLET OF FISH 

Baked Fillet of Halibut 
2 slices of halibut cut from salt, pepper, lemon juice, melted 

middle of fish butter 

2 cups oyster stuffing 

Wash and wipe fish. Place one slice on a buttered fish 
sheet, brush with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, cover with oyster stuffing. Place second slice on 
top of oysters, season, and brush with butter. Bake forty 
minutes, basting frequently with melted butter, turning 
pan often in order that the fish may be uniformly browned. 

Remove to hot platter; garnish with potato balls, pars- 
ley, and lemon; Hollandaise, tomato, or Bechamel sauce. 



68 lowney's cook book 

sauted fish 

Sauted Trout 

6 medium-sized trout cornmeal, salt and pepper 

olive oil or melted butter 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

Wash and wipe fish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in olive oil, roll in cornmeal, and saute until brown, 
and crisp in butter or lard. Drain on brown paper. Serve 
on hot platter, and garnish with lemon and cress. All 
kinds of small fish may be cooked in the same manner. 

Deviled Fillets of Fish 

6 fish fillets 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 teaspoon mustard 2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon hot water ^ cup cracker crumbs seasoned 

Mix mustard, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt and 
paprika. Wipe and broil the fish, spread with mustard 
mixture, roll in crumbs, and broil until crumbs are brown. 
Serve hot, with sauce tartare or tomato tartare. 

Fried Fillet of Sole 

6 fillets of sole 2 teaspoons butter 

4 anchovies boned and skinned I teaspoon mustard 

2 teaspoons lemon juice salt, cayenne pepper 

Prepare the fillets, sprinkle with salt and pepper; spread 
with remaining ingredients blended. Roll fillets, dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumb, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. Serve on a napkin and garnish with lemon 
and water cress. 

Fillets prepared in this way may also be baked in the 
oven with white wine, and served garnished with French 
fried potatoes and parsley. 



FISH 69 

Planked Shad 

1 shad with backbone removed 2 tablespoons finely chopped pars- 

4 tablespoons butter ley 

few drops onion juice 2 tablespoons tomato catsup or 

1 tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons white wine. 

few grains cayenne 

Wipe shad; place skin side down on oak plank. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; spread with butter. Cook in hot 
oven twenty to thirty minutes. Brown with a salamander. 
Spread with parsley and catsup or white wine. Garnish 
with highly seasoned hot mashed potato pressed through 
a pastry bag and tube. Also radishes cut in shape of 
roses, lemons cut in shape of crescents and dipped in 
chopped parsley, and sprigs of parsley. 

Fried Whitebait 

2 pounds whitebait flour 

salt, pepper lemon slices 

Dry whitebait in towel ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
dredge napkin with flour. Shake whitebait in napkin until 
each little fish is covered with flour. Dip frying basket 
in hot fat ; cover bottom of frying basket with floured 
whitebait ; plunge into hot fat ; fry until a golden brown ; 
drain on brown paper. Serve on napkin. Garnish with 
lemon and parsley. Brown bread is served with these fish. 

SHELLFISH 

Scalloped Oysters 
1 quart oysters 2 tablespoons parsley 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 2 tablespoons celery 

1 teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon paprika 

I cup butter 1 cup cream 

I cup wine 

Clean oysters. Butter a baking dish ; arrange a layer 
of oysters in the bottom of the dish. Mix butter and 



70 lowney's cook book 

bread crumbs ; sprinkle oysters with crumbs, parsley, celery, 
paprika, salt and two tablespoons of cream. Continue 
arranging in layers until dish is filled, having crumbs for 
the last layer. Just before baking, add wine and bake 
twenty minutes. Oysters are best baked in a shallow 
dish so as to have two layers of oysters only. 

Oyster Stew 

1 quart oysters 4 tablespoons butter 

1 quart milk salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

Drain oysters from liquor ; heat liquor to boiling point. 
Skim. Scald milk in double boiler ; add liquor and oys- 
ters ; cook until edges of the oysters shrivel ; add butter, 
salt and pepper. Serve at once. 

If cracker crumbs are used, combine butter and cracker 
crumbs and add to oyster mixture. 

Oysters and oyster liquor must not be added to milk 
until just before serving, as the mixture is apt to curdle if 
the oysters are allowed to stand in the milk. 

Spindled Oysters 

1 quart oysters salt, pepper 

12 slices bacon 6 squares buttered toast 

Drain oysters from their liquor and dry between towels. 
Cut the bacon in pieces half the size of the oysters. Ar- 
range the oysters and bacon in alternate layers on wooden 
skewers, being careful to pierce the hard muscle. Place 
in a hot pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is done. 
Ten minutes should suffice. 

Serve one skewerful on each slice of buttered toast. 
Many persons like the liquor of the oysters heated, 
strained, and poured over the toast just before serving. 



FISH 71 

Broiled Oysters 

Look over oysters, reject shells, and dry oysters between 
towels. Dip in melted butter or olive oil seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Heat broiler ; grease ; arrange oysters on 
broiler ; broil over a clear fire four to six minutes, turning 
often. Serve on squares or rounds of toasted bread spread 
with butter and slightly moistened with oyster liquor. Gar- 
nish with a sprig of parsley and one quarter slice of lemon. 

Panned Oysters 
Melt two tablespoons of butter in hot frying pan, add 
one pint of cleaned and drained oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and cook in hot oven until edges shrivel. 
Serve on hot buttered squares of toast with strained liquor 
from oysters. Garnish with finely chopped parsley. 

Sauted Oysters 
Pick over, drain, and dry oysters ; dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumb, season with salt and pepper. Melt one 
tablespoon each of lard and butter in frying pan. When 
hissing hot, cover bottom of pan with prepared oysters and 
saute until a golden brown on both sides. Drain on 
brown paper ; reheat in oven if necessary. Serve on hot 
platter and garnish with parsley, lemon and sauce tartare. 

Fried Oysters 
Fried oysters are prepared same as Sauted Oysters 
except they are fried in deep fat. 

Supreme Oysters 

.1 pint oysters I cup chicken stock 

2 tablespoons butter i cup oyster liquor 

2 tablespoons onion salt, cayenne, nutmeg 

4 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

I cup cream parsley 

^ cup finely cut chicken 



72 lowney's cook book 

Melt butter ; add onion; when yellow, add flour; when 
well blended, add liquids and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes ; add chicken, yolks of eggs beaten until thick, 
cream beaten until stiff. When thick, cool. Parboil 
oysters ; drain and dry. Cover oysters with chicken mix- 
ture, dip in crumbs, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. 
Drain. Serve on hot dish and garnish with lemon and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Clams 

Clams may be cooked and served in all ways like 

oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells ; place in kettle ; add water, 
allowing one half cup of water for each peck of clams. 
Cover kettle and cook until shells open. Serve hot with 
melted butter. 

Kettle should be removed from the range as soon as 
shells open, otherwise clams will be overcooked. 

Clam Fritters 

2 egg yolks well beaten | cup flour 

I cup milk salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 tablespoon olive oil 2 egg whites stiffly beaten 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Combine ingredients in order given; let stand ten min- 
utes. Remove clams from shell, cut off heads, cover with 
batter, and fry until golden brown in hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper. As clams contain so much water, only a 
few should be put into the fat at once. 

Oysters in batter may be prepared in the same way as 
Clam Fritters. 

Fried Scallops 

1 quart scallops flour 

salt and pepper, 1 egg crumbs 



FISB 7S 

Wash, drain, and parboil scallops. Season; dip in flour, 
egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve 
with sauce tartare. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 

Fried Scallops in Batter 
Parboil scallops, and proceed as with Clam Fritters. 

Scalloped Scallops 

1 pint scallops 4 tablespoons flour 

1 cap mushrooms, chopped 1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons onion ^ cup scallop liquor 
4 tablespoons butter salt, pepper, cayenne 

Parboil scallops. Drain and cut in slices. Melt butter; 
add onion and mushrooms, cook five minutes; add scallops, 
cook five minutes ; add liquids, cook until thick. 

Place mixture in buttered baking dish or scallop shells; 
dot with butter; cover with buttered and seasoned crumbs; 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

Lobster 

To open a lobster : wipe lobster, break or sever small 
and large claws from the body. Separate tail from body 
portion by twisting and pulling at the same time. Re- 
move meat from body portion carefully, picking edible 
portion from small bones. Reserve liver and coral if 
there be any; discard stomach, or "lady." Meat from the 
body of the lobster is the sweetest and tenderest, but is 
often thrown away because of the difficulty in removing it. 

Break the large claws, or if the shell is tender, cut with 
scissors and remove meat whole. 

Crush the tail shell and remove the meat in one piece. 
Cut entire length of the tail meat and remove the intes- 
tinal canal. 

The small claws are attractive for garnishing, and 
should be reserved. 



74 LO^VNEY'S COOK BOOK 

m 
Creamed Lobster 

1 pint lobster meat salt, pepper, cayenne 

4 tablespoons butter 2 cups cream 

4 tablespoons flour 1 red pepper cut in ribbons 

parsley 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Make a white sauce of butter, flour, seasonings and 
cream. Parboil red pepper, add to sauce with lobster 
meat, reheat, and serve on rounds of buttered toast. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Use recipe for Creamed Lobster and bake in lobster 
shell, scallop shells, ramekins, or baking dishes, covered 
with buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs. Garnish 
with small lobster claws and parsley. 

Deviled Lobster 

Prepared same as Creamed Lobster, with addition of one 
teaspoon each of onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, mus- 
tard, few grains of cayenne and a few drops of Tabasco. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs may be creamed, scalloped, or 
deviled, like lobster, garnished and served in the same 
way. 

Crabs in Red Peppers 

8 red peppers 1 tablespoon onion 

1 pint crab meat salt, pepper, paprika 

4 tablespoons butter mustard, cayenne, nutmeg 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup cream 

Parboil red peppers. Make a white sauce with butter, 
flour, cream and seasonings. Add crab meat, fill peppers 
with crab mixture, cover with buttered and seasoned soft 
bread crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 



FISH 75 

Broiled Live Lobster 

Select a heavy lobster. Cut with a quick, sharp thrust 
the whole length of the body from the mouth down. 
Remove the stomach and intestinal canal; reserve the liver 
or tomalley and coral, if there is any. Crack large claws 
and place on greased broiler, inserting skewers between 
the sides of the lobster to keep it open. Place in oven 
for twenty minutes, then broil over hot coals about five 
minutes. Serve immediately, plain or with deviled sauce. 

Curried Lobster 

a 4-pound lobster 1 cup cream 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup stock 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 tablespoon curry 
4 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 

2 cups cooked rice salt, paprika 

Melt butter ; add onion ; cook until yellow ; add flour, 
curry, liquid; cook until thickened; add eggs, salt and 
pepper, and coral, if you have it; strain over lobster meat. 

Serve on a bed of rice garnished with parsley. 

• Lobster Supreme 

Prepare the sauce as for Supreme Oysters, substituting 
two cups of chopped lobster for oysters. 

Lobster in Red Peppers 

Prepared same as Crabs in Red Peppers, substituting 
one pint lobster meat for crab meat. 

Fried Soft-shell Crabs 

Prepare crabs by removing sand bags. Raise apron; cut 
from crab ; remove spongy substance surrounding apron. 
Wipe ; season with salt and pepper ; dip in crumbs ; egg 
and crumb ; fry in hot fat about three minutes. Serve 
immediately with tartare sauce. 



CHAPTER IV 
MEATS 

Meat is expensive ; therefore every housekeeper should 
inform herself in regard to the different cuts in different 
creatures, and the prices for these cuts. 

Various methods are employed in cooking meats ; but 
this fact should be remembered, that all meat should be 
subjected to a high temperature for a short time, in order 
to sear the surface and shut in the juices, whatever 
method of cooking is used. 

Tough meats should have long, slow cooking. 

Dry meats, like the fillet, should be larded to give 
flavor. 

As a rule, dark meats are more palatable and digestible 
if cooked rare, and white meats are considered better if 
thoroughly cooked. 

Remove all meats from paper as soon as sent from the 
market. Set on plate and keep in ice chest or cool place 
until ready to use. 

Never put meat in cold water, but always wipe with a 
damp cloth to remove any foreign matter, before cooking. 

A description of the various meats will be found in the 
chapter on Marketing. 

BEEF 
Boiled Beef 

The flank is one of the best pieces for boiling. 
Select a five-pound piece ; wipe ; remove membrane, 
shape, stuff, tie, and skewer. Cover with cloth ; place in 

76 



MEATS 77 

kettle ; cover with boiling water ; bring to the boiling 
point, and cook just below the boiling point, five or six 
hours, or until tender. Simmered beef would be a more 
correct term than boiled beef, but it is ordinarily known 
as boiled beef. 

Season with salt one half hour before serving. Reserve 
liquor for making gravies and soups. 

Boiled beef should have a rich, highly seasoned gravy 

served with it. 

Braised Beef 

An iron, or agate-ware kettle, with closely fitting cover, 
is absolutely necessary for perfectly cooking braised beef. 

Select six pounds of round of beef, or any tough, 
inexpensive piece. Try out one cup salt pork cubes ; add 
one cup each of chopped celery, carrot, onion and turnip. 
Wipe meat; sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. Place meat on bed of vegetables and cook in 
covered kettle twenty minutes ; add two pints hot water 
and cook slowly until tender, about four hours, turning 
meat and basting occasionally. It may be necessary to 
add more water, for there should be about a pint and a 
half when meat is cooked. Thicken gravy with four 
tablespoons flour, blended with two tablespoons butter, 
added twenty minutes before serving. A bouquet of sweet 
herbs may be added to improve the flavor. 

Fillet of Beef 

The tenderloin of beef is knoAvn as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four 
pounds, removing tendinous portions and veins. Tie 
and skewer into a pear-shaped piece. Lard top ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Cover the 
bottom of a small dripping pan with cubes of salt pork. 
Set trivet on top of pork, and meat on trivet. Bake 



78 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

from twenty to thirty minutes in hot oven, basting fre- 
quently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour and hot 
water. Same as recipe for brown gravy, under Roast Beef. 

Broiled Fillet of Beef 
Cut slices about tAVO inches thick from fillet. Shape in 
circles. Place on greased broiler and broil over hot coals 
from four to six minutes, turning every ten seconds. 
Serve on hot platter ; garnish with slices of broiled tomato 
and brown mushroom sauce. 

Broiled Fillets of Beef with Oysters 
Broil steak according to recipe ; place on hot platter ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; cover with oysters ; dot 
with butter ; and bake in oven until edges of oysters curl. 
Serve immediately, garnished with parsley and lemon. 

Sauted Fillet of Beef 
Saute steak two minutes. Mix two tablespoons Worces- 
tershire sauce, one half teaspoon salt, one quarter tea- 
spoon mustard, one tablespoon melted butter, and one 
tablespoon chopped pimolas. Spread on both sides of 
steak, dip in bread crumbs, and saute until crumbs are 

brown. 

Corned Beef 

Wash beef; place in kettle; cover with cold water; bring 
to the boiling point, then simmer until tender; allow thirty- 
five minutes for each pound. Cool partially. in water in 
which it was cooked; place in square pan; apply pressure 

and serve cold. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Chop beef; add an equal amount of cold boiled potatoes, 
chopped; season with salt, pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice. 



MEATS 79 

Melt one tablespoon butter in an iron frying pan ; add 
beef and potatoes and sufficient milk or hot water to make 
the mixture quite soft. Cover frying pan and cook 
slowly until a brown crust is formed. Turn like an 
omelet on to a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

Roast Beef 

Pieces used for roasting are sirloin, rib, back of the 
rump, face of the rump and upper round. 

Eight to ten minutes a pound should be allowed for 
cooking the meat moderately rare. 

Wipe the meat; place on rack in dripping pan; dredge 
meat and pan well with flour, then sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper. 

Cook in hot oven for fifteen minutes, until flour is well 
browned. Reduce heat and continue roasting, basting 
every ten minutes until cooked. 

Baste with fat tried out from the meat. If that is not 
sufficient, add beef suet, beef drippings, or butter. 

Avoid the use of water in the pan, as by its use the 
meat is steamed rather than roasted. 

Serve with brown gravy, made by browning four table- 
spoons of fat from the pan, adding four tablespoons flour. 
When brown, add one and one half cups water or beef 

stock. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

2 cups milk | teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 4 eggs 

Beat eggs; add flour and salt, gradually; continue beat- 
ing. Add milk and continue beating five minutes. The 
mixture should be perfectly smooth. One half hour be- 
fore meat is done, pour this mixture into dripping pan 
under meat and baste when basting meat, turning pan 
that pudding may be golden brown throughout. 



80 lowney's cook book 

Yorkshire pudding cooked in this way is considered by 
many to be too rich. A very good substitute is obtained 
by cooking in hissing hot gem pans, thirty minutes. 

Serve pudding, cut in squares, on platter around beef. 

Spiced Beef 

Wash and wipe six pounds of any inexpensive piece of 
beef; cover with boiling water; bring to the boiling point, 
then simmer until meat is tender, adding, the last hour of 
cooking, one cup each of carrot and onion, a bouquet of 
sweet herbs tied in a bag, pepper, and one half tablespoon 
salt. Remove meat and reduce liquid to one and one half 
cups. 

Shred meat, add liquid, and press in bread pan, packing 
closely. When cold serve in thin slices. 

Stewed Beef 
Cut beef taken from the round in small squares; cover 
with boiling water, and simmer until meat is tender, four 
or six hours. Season with salt and pepper one hour be- 
fore serving. Remove meat and thicken liquid, allowing 
one and one half tablespoons of flour for each pint of 

liquid. 
^ Pot Roast 

Wipe a six-pound piece of beef; put into hot frying pan, 
and sear until brown; then lard the upper surface. Place 
in tightly covered kettle or bean pot; add one cup of 
water. Cook slowly in oven until meat is tender, keep- 
ing only enough water in kettle to prevent burning. 
When nearly done, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve 
with a brown gravy made with water in the pan. 

Beef Ragout 
Wipe three pounds from the flank or round. Cut into 
small cubes; dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Brown 
meat in hot frying pan, being careful to avoid burning. 



MEATS 81 

Remove meat to kettle with close-fitting cover. Brown 
four tablespoons butter; add four tablespoons flour, and 
continue browning; add one and one half cups stock or' 
water, one half cup each of carrot and onion; season with 
salt and pepper and simmer one and one half hours. 

Broiled Beefsteak 

Use a slice cut from the rump, round, or sirloin, cut one 
and one half inches to two and a half inches thick. Wipe 
meat; place on hot broiler, and broil over a clear fire from 
five to ten minutes, turning every ten seconds. Serve on 
a hot platter, spread with butter, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

If there is a large amount of fat on the steak, be sure it 
is well browned before serving. 

Beefsteak smothered in Onions 

1 dozen small onions salt 

1 slice porterhouse steak, cut thick pepper 

Heat a frying pan hissing hot. Put in beefsteak, sear- 
ing first on one side, then on the other; cook five minutes; 
season with salt and pepper; add onions which have been 
cooked one half hour in boiling salted water. Cover and 
simmer twenty or thirty minutes. 

Remove steak to platter, spread with butter, and season 
with salt and pepper. Season onions with salt, pepper 
and butter, and serve around steak. 

Hamburg Steak a la Tartare 

1 pound round steak \ cup chopped onion 

2 ounces beef suet \ cup bread crumbs 

salt and pepper 

Put meat and suet through meat chopper; add finely 
chopped onion, and season with salt and pepper. Shape 



82 lowney's cook book 

in balls; roll in crumbs; and broil over a clear fire, or pan- 
broil. Serve on hot platter with brown gravy, tomato 
sauce, or Spanish sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

VEAL 
Roast Veal 

Six pounds of veal taken from the leg, from the loin, or 
from the breast. 

Skewer meat into shape ; dredge with flour, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cover top with slices of salt pork. 
Allow twenty minutes to the pound, bake in a hot oven, 
and baste every ten minutes with fat from the pan. If 
there is not sufficient fat in the pan, try out some pork on 
top of the stove and use that for basting. 

Remove pork slices from top of meat one half hour be- 
fore it is done, and brown. 

A gravy may be made from the fat in the pan, same as 
Brown Gravy. 

Roast Veal Stuffed 

Select a shoulder of veal and have the bone removed; 
stuff with same stuffing used for Baked Fish, adding one 
cup chopped mushrooms. Scav up stuffed meat and roast 
same as Roast Veal. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut meat in small pieces, saute in melted butter. 
Cover meat with boiling water and cook slowly until 
V meat is tender. 

Melt four tablespoons butter or pork fat. When brown, 
add one fourth cup flour browned, and four cups of water 
in which veal was cooked. Season with salt, pepper, 
onion juice and lemon juice. 

Just before serving add one fourth cup cream, or two 
tablespoons butter. 



MEATS 83 

Serve veal in center of hot platter and surround witli 
hot sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Dumplings may be served with this fricassee, in which 
case it is ordinarily called a stew. 

Veal Cutlets 

Choose only the tenderest of veal for cutlets. Cut meat 
from leg, shape either in individual cutlets or one large 
cutlet. Cover veal with oil and let it stand one hour. 
Drain ; cover with boiling water and simmer until tender, 
having only sufficient water in stewpan to keep cutlets 
from burning. Remove from stew-pan ; cool ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, dip in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork fat or fry in deep fat. 

Serve on liot platter w^ith brown sauce, tomato sauce 
or mushroom sauce. 

Loin of Veal a la Jardiniere 

a 6-pound loin of veal 1 cauliflower 

1 cup salt pork cubes 1 cup onion 

1 cup potatoes 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup carrots 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups green peas salt, pepper and lemon juice 

Remove the bone from veal; wipe meat, and season with 
salt and pepper. Roll and tie in shape. 

Cook bones in water to cover, one hour. Melt butter; 
add vegetables, except potatoes, peas and cauliflow^er; cook 
five minutes. Try out salt pork; add veal, and brown. 

Place veal in dripping pan; surround with pork fat, 
onion and carrot, and cook three hours. To the melted 
butter add flour. When well blended, add water in 
which bones were cooked. 

Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Cook cauli- 
flower, peas and potatoes separately in boiling salted 



84 lo]vney's cook book 

water. Place cooked meat in center of platter, pour over 
sauce, and arrange vegetables in mounds around the meat. 

Braised Veal 

Use rule for Braised Beef, substituting six pounds of 

the shoulder of veal. 

Veal Chops 

Wipe chops taken from the rack of veal ; make an inci- 
sion, and put in a few drops of onion juice, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. Dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and saute 
in pork fat until tender. Serve on hot platter with 
tomato sauce and parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 
Boiled Mutton 

Trim off the outside fat from a fore quarter or loin. 
Place in kettle ; cover with boiling water and cook until 
tender, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Serve 
with caper sauce made from the water in which mutton 
was boiled. Reserve the remainder of the water for soup 
for next day. 

Roast Mutton 

The leg, loin, saddle and shoulder are used for roasting. 

Allow twelve minutes to the pound, if liked rare, fifteen 
if desired well done, basting every ten minutes. 

To roast a leg of mutton, first remove the pink outer 
skin, as this contains the strong flavor. Never roast with 
the caul left on. The bone from the leg may be re- 
moved and the cavity stuffed and edges sewed ; or the leg 
maybe roasted without removing bone. In either case 
wipe meat, dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and place on rack in dripping pan. Dredge pan with 
flour, and if the mutton flavor is desired, place pieces of 
mutton fat in the pan, or salt pork may be substituted. 



MEATS 85 

Braised Mutton 

Remove the bone from the leg or fore quarter. Stuff 
and follow rule for Braised Beef. 

Ragout of Mutton 
Use breast of fore quarter of mutton, or cold cooked 
mutton, and follow recipe for Beef Ragout. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 

The saddle is what the name implies — the back. In 
large pieces the tail is included. 

Wipe meat ; remove pink skin, kidneys, and fat. Fold 
flanks inside and tie in shape. Place on rack ; dredge 
meat and pan with flour, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per. Cook in liot oven ; allow ten minutes to the pound 
basting frequently. 

Serve with currant jelly sauce. 

Crown Roast 

Or Rack of Mutton. Prepare the loin as for French 
chops and arrange like a crown, rolling the loin back- 
ward. Tie securely. Cover each chop bone with thin 
strip of salt pork to prevent burning. Place on rack in 
dripping pan with a bowl in center of the crown to 
preserve its shape. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, basting frequently, and allowing nine minutes 
to the pound for roasting. 

Serve on hot platter, with potato balls, green peas, 

French fried potatoes, or puree of chestnuts in center of 

crown. Paper frills on chop bones and parsley around 

the base. 

Breaded Lamb or Mutton Chops 

Prepare loin or French chops as for broiling. Dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve. 



86 lowney's cook book 

Stuffed Lamb or Mutton Chop, with Spanish Sauce 

Prepare French chops. Cut through meat to the bone, 
making a pocket ; fill pocket with mushroom mixture ; 
close with skewer ; and broil. 

Mushroom Mixture 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons flour, 
one tablespoon finely chopped onion, one half cup chopped 
mushrooms, one teaspoon salt, and cream to make of con- 
sistency to shape. This is suificient to stuff eight chops. 

Lamb Chops with Soubise Sauce 

Prepare eight French chops. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, spread with soubise sauce, and broil. 

Soubise Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons flour, 
one half teaspoon salt, three small onions which have been 
boiled and pressed through a sieve, a dash of cayenne, and 
sufficient cream to make of consistency to spread. 

Baked Chops Soubise 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops with Soubise sauce ; dip in 
buttered crumbs : wrap in buttered paper cases. Bake 
thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve with tomato or olive 
sauce. 

Lamb or Mutton Chops 

Wipe chops, shape, place on broiler, and cook over a 
clear fire, turning every ten seconds, allowing eight min- 
utes for chops cut one inch thick. 

Serve on hot platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and spread with butter. 

Arrange chops in circle, overlapping each other, or 
around a mound of vegetables. 



MEATS 87 

Broiled French Chops 

Lamb or mutton chops trimmed of superfluous fat, the 
bones scraped and cut uniformly, are called French Chops. 
Broil like Lamb or Mutton Chops. 

Broiled Loin Chops 

Trim loin chops, skewer in rounds, and proceed as with 
Broiled French- Chops. 

Pan-broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Heat frying pan hissing 
hot; place chops in pan. Do not grease pan. Sear one 
side and then the other, and continue turning every ten 
seconds, for five minutes if liked rare, and eight minutes 
if liked well done. 

PORK 
Roast Pork 

Select sparerib, loin, or shoulder for roasting. Wipe 
meat; place on pan; dredge meat and pan with flour. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Bake in a moderate oven, allowing twenty-five minutes 
to the pound. 

Serve with cooked apples in some form — apple sauce, 
apple jelly, or fried apples. 

Roast Little Pig 

Clean, wipe, and stuff a three-weeks-old pig. Skewer 
into shape; place on rack in pan; rub with butter, dredge 
with flour, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Place in moderate oven; when heated through increase 
heat, baste every ten minutes with melted butter, turning 
often to cook and brown uniformly. 

Cook from three to four hours, according to size of pig. 



88 lowney's cook book 

Serve on hot platter on a bed of parsley. Garnish with 
apple sauce in red apple shells, lemon and parsley. 

Broiled Pork Chops 

For broiling, chops should be cut very thin and broiled 
at least fifteen minutes, holding the broiler some distance 
from coals, to avoid burning. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Pork Chops and cook in hot oven 
tvrenty minutes, turning when half cooked. 

Sauted Pork Chops 

Cook chops in hissing hot frying pan in small amount 
of fat. Drain and serve. 

Broiled Ham 

Cut ham very thin, cover with cold water, heat slowly 
to the boiling point. Drain, dry, and broil. 

Boiled Ham 

Select a medium-sized ham; soak over night in cold 
water. Clean and wipe; cover with cold water; bring to 
the boiling point, and then simmer until tender, allowing 
thirty minutes to the pound. Cool in water in which it 
was cooked. Take off the skin, sprinkle with sugar, and 
cover with seasoned cracker crumbs. Bake twenty to 
thirty minutes. Decorate with cloves, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve hot or cold. 

A more aromatic flavor is given to the ham if a bouquet 
of sweet herbs and one half cup each of onions, carrots, 
and turnips are boiled with it. Many baste the ham, 
when baking, with cider. 



JESJLTS H* 



~- - :_ ■ "Z7^ W feggj iBry aawl gtfwigi Aamm g—ti 



om ^coilsr a2B(£ <snoBk: avoir An^pmggMwi 






iKnaiLTiiY 



<M>Ter witk Ikftliiig^ warier, aand eeok jmisSL teaHiec;. Mioiwr 
Alloir t'vreniiT minmres to tke pomui £i»r <MHt&nig^ 



Wipe* ssni:^, s*?w. ssre^w^r. iffid plaxr^ tun laidk on las<£fcik^ 
with, ti^t-tittbi^ coTer. 

PLjATt? six si[ict?§ of sail pork oa boctom <?£ fcj«tdiik 9iM 
one foortli cap eaciu eaxroc* oiiicjnL ttun^ ^aai oi^i^v^ bd^ 
of baj leaf » sprig: of parslej. one itea^^!ii!C>ii: p^^^mawns^ 
two te-JLspoocis sale* and tliree e?ip? ^: ^~^--r^ w;ita^ 

Cover ke^stle* ind cook 12 o^c._ -_,'tfe to *<jiEr IbfttiTSi. 



90 lowney's cook book 

always keeping enough water in kettle to prevent vegeta- 
bles from burning. When tender, brush over with melted 
butter, dredge with flour, and brown in oven. 

Serve with gravy and vegetables pressed through sieve. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Broiled Chicken 

Clean wipe, and split down the back, a young chicken. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper; place on greased broiler, 
and cook over dripping pan in hot oven over twenty 
minutes. Remove from oven, and broil over clear fire 
until golden brown. Remove from broiler, spread with 
melted butter, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve 
on hot platter on bed of water cress. 

Sauted Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Dip in water, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Try 
out two tablespoons salt pork cubes. Cover bottom of 
fr3dng pan with pieces of chicken. Cook until a delicate 
brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. 
Drain on brown paper. 

Take three tablespoons of fat from the pan, brown, add 
three tablespoons flour and brown, add one fourth tea- 
spoon each of salt, nutmeg, and paprika, and a cup and 
^ a quarter of cream. Cook five minutes, pour around 
chicken, and garnish with parsley and toast points. 

Fried Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving ; dip in milk, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in flour or in crumbs, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper; 
serve on slices of buttered toast with Bechamel sauce, 
Allemande, or Mushroom sauce. 



MEATS 91 

Baltimore Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dip in egg, and crumbs taken from the center 
of the loaf ; arrange in baking dish, baste with melted 
butter, and cook in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

Arrange on a hot platter ; garnish with thin slices of 
crisp bacon, parsley and cream sauce. 

Chicken fried in Batter 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving, cover with fritter 
batter, and cook in deep fat. Drain on brown paper. In 
order that chicken in batter be cooked sufficiently, the 
bird must be young and tender. 

Cold chicken meat may be dipped in the same batter 

and fried. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut a chicken in pieces for serving ; season with salt 
and pepper. Melt four tablespoons butter, add one fourth 
cup finely chopped onion, chicken, and saute until golden 
brown. Remove chicken ; add four tablespoons flour, two 
cups chicken stock, two cups stewed tomato, one red pep- 
per finely chopped, one half cup celery, and salt to taste. 
Replace chicken in sauce, and simmer until tender. 

Arrange on dish ; surround with sauce ; garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving, season with salt and 
pepper, brown in butter or pork fat. When golden brown 
cover with boiling water ; add six cloves, a bit of bay leaf, 
a sprig of parsley, and simmer until tender. 

Melt four tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons flour, 
two and one half cups water in which chicken was cooked. 
Cook ten minutes ; add one cup cream or two egg yolks. 



92 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Arrange chicken on platter, pour sauce around, and gar- 
nish with toast and parsley. 

If a brown sauce is preferred, brown the butter and 
brown the flour, adding one more tablespoon. 

Chicken Pie 

Cut a chicken in pieces for serving. Melt four table- 
spoons butter or use the same quantity of pork fat. Add 
one fourth cup onion, a sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, 
four cloves, and one tablespoon salt. 

Put in chicken and cover with boiling water ; cook until 
tender. Arrange chicken in baking dish ; cover with 
strained and thickened stock. Cover whole dish with 
mashed potato or pastry crust. Bake until potato is 
brown or crust is done. 

Old-fashioned English Chicken Pie 

Cover chicken, cut in pieces for serving, with boiling 
water, add two sprigs of thyme, one sprig of marjoram, bit 
of .bay leaf, two sprigs parsley, tied in a bag. Simmer 
gently until tender. 

One half hour before chicken is done, add one half pound 
bacon cut in small pieces. 

Arrange on the bottom of baking dish, slices of hard- 
. cooked eggs, cover with sauted mushrooms, then a layer 
of chicken meat, and continue until dish is filled. Add 
three cups of sauce made from the liquor in the pan and 
thickened with two tablespoons butter and four table- 
spoons flour cooked together ; reheat in oven, and garnish 
with pastry points cut in the shape of triangles, and pars- 
ley, and serve. 

Roast Boned Chicken 

Bone according to direction for boning chicken. Stuff 
until plump with force meat, sew, press body into natural 



Meats 93 

shape, truss, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and follow directions for Roast Chicken, allowing 
twenty minutes for each pound. 

Roast Chicken 

Remove pinfeathers, singe, take out tendons, draw skin 
back from neck, cut off neck close to body, cut out oil bag. 
Make an incision between the legs, running from the 
breastbone down, and through this opening draw the 
entrails. 

If care is taken, all of the internal organs can be re- 
moved at once by separating the membrane inclosing the 
organs, from the body. 

Draw windpipe and crop through the neck opening. 
Never make an incision in the breast. 

Wash inside of bird with cloth wrung out of cold water, 
removing all clots of blood. Wipe, stuff, sew up openings, 
truss, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, 
place on rack in dripping pan, and cook fifteen minutes in 
very hot oven. Then dredge pan with flour, reduce heat, 
and baste every ten minutes until chicken is done, turning 
often. 

Allow fifteen minutes to the pound for roasting. 

Roast Capon 

Prepare the same as Roast Chicken, allowing twelve 
minutes to the pound for roasting. 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

2 cups soft bread crumbs few drops onion juice 

i cup melted butter salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon poultry seasoning 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a moist stuffing is 
desired, add hot water until of the right consistency ; but 



94 lowney's cook book 

many prefer a dry stuffing. For a stronger flavor of 
onion, cook one tablespoon chopped onion in butter and 
add to crumbs. 

Chestnut Stuffing • 

Press meat from one quart boiled chestnuts through 
puree sieve. Moisten with butter, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

Oyster Stuffing 

2 cups cracker crumbs 1 tablespoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 pint oysters 1 tablespoon chopped celery 

\ cup butter \ cup boiling water or hot milk 

Parboil oysters, dip in melted butter, add remaining 
ingredients, and use for stuffing chicken, turkey, or goose. 

Potato Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning 
\ cup salt pork cubes salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons onion 1 cup cooked sausages cut in pieces 

Cook the onion and the pork until yellow; add remain- 
ing ingredients. Use for stuffing chicken, turkey, and 
goose. 

Roast Green Goose 

A green goose should never be more than four months 
old. Dress same as chicken. If strong, wash out with 
soapsuds and carefully rinse in several waters. 

Stuff, truss, sew, flatten the breastbone, and roast the 
same as chicken. Allow eighteen minutes to the pound 
for roasting. 

If the goose is more than four months old, it is better 
to braise than roast it. But if roasted, allow twenty-five 
minutes to the pound. 



MEATS 95 

Roast Tame Duck 

Prepare same as chicken; stuff with chopped celery. 
Allow ten minutes to the pound for duckling and twenty 

for an old duck. 

Roast Turkey- 
Dress, clean, and stuff turkey and follow directions for 
Roast Chicken. Some prefer to rub the surface of the 
turkey with butter and flour creamed together instead of 
dredging with flour. 

English Roast Turkey 
Stuffing 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add one tablespoon chopped 
onion, three cups soft bread crumbs, chopped liver and 
heart, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon poultry seasoning, 
one tablespoon chopped pickles, and one quarter teaspoon 
pepper. 

Prepare turkey for roasting; stuff, sew, truss. Bake in 
hot oven, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste 
frequently. Dredge and season twice during cooking. 

Boned Turkey 

Boned Turkey is prepared in the same way as Boned 
Chicken. 

GAME 

WILD DUCK 

Roasted Canvasback or Redhead 

The heads of wild duck are usually left on when cooked. 
Make a slit in front of the wishbone. Clean the bird; 
remove entrails, crop and windpipe ; draw the head 
through the neck opening. Truss, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper inside and outside. Bake in a very hot oven 



96 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

eighteen to twenty minutes, basting with hot water during 
cooking. If the strong flavor of wild duck is objection- 
able, cook an onion or an apple in the cavity, removing it 
before serving. 

Serve with the wild duck, fried crescents of rice or 
hominy and currant jelly. 

Ruddy Duck, Butterballs, Bluebills, Broadbills, Teals, 
Coot, Grouse, Partridge, Prairie Chicken, Quail, Wood- 
cock, Reedbirds and Pheasants are roasted in the same 
way as Wild Duck, or are broiled the same as Broiled 
Chicken. The small birds are usually served on pieces of 
buttered toast and garnished with water cress, parsley, 
and a highly seasoned sauce. 

Roast Venison 

Lard a saddle of venison, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour. Place in dripping pan and baste with 
melted butter. Allow ten minutes to the pound for roast- 
ing. Serve with Madeira or Currant Jelly sauce. 

Venison Steak or Chops 

Broiled or pan-broiled same as beefsteak or lamb chops, 
and serve with some acid sauce. 



CHAPTER V 
VEGETABLES 

All green vegetables should be washed in cold water 
and cooked in boiling water. Salt may be added first or 
last according to preference. Allow one tablespoon salt 
to each quart of water. 

The time required for cooking depends upon the age 
and freshness of the vegetables. 



Time Table 
Artichokes . 
Asparagus, young 
Asparagus, old 
Beans, fresh . 
Beans, dried . 
Beets, young 
Beets, old 
Brussels sprouts 
Cabbage, young 
Cabbage, old 
Carrots, young 
Carrots, old 
Cauliflower 
Corn 

Dandelions 
Onions . 
Parsnips 
Peas 
Potatoes 
Salsify . 
Squash, summer 
Squash, winter 
Spinach and other greens 
Sweet potatoes 
Turnips 



for boiling Vegetables 

45 to 60 minutes 
15 to 20 minutes 
30 to 50 minutes 

1 to 2 hours 

2 to 4 hours 
60 minutes 

3 to 5 hours 
15 to 20 minutes 
30 minutes 
2 to 3 hours 
30 minutes 

1 to 2 hours 
30 to 60 minutes 
5 to 20 minutes 

2 to 3 hours 
60 to 90 minutes 
1 to 2 hours 
20 to 40 minutes 
30 minutes 
30 to 60 minutes 
20 to 60 minutes 
60 to 90 minutes 
20 to 60 minutes 
30 to 60 minutes 
40 to 60 minutes 

97 



98 lowney's cook book 

Globe Artichokes 

Soak in cold water. Remove lower leaves and cut ends 
of others. Cook in boiling salted water forty -five minutes 
or until the leaves pull out. Drain. Serve with Bechamel 
or HoUandaise sauce or with drawn butter. 

Scalloped Globe Artichokes 

2 cups cooked artichokes 2 cups white sauce 

1 cup buttered crumbs 

Arrange in a scallop dish and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Wash and scrub. Cook in boiling salted water. Serve 
with melted butter or white sauce. They may be mari- 
nated with French dressing and served cold. 

Asparagus 

Wash stalks, snap off all white tough part. Tie in 
bunch. Cook in deep kettle of boiling salted water. Stand 
bunch upright for the first ten minutes. Cook twenty to 
thirty minutes. Drain. Serve on buttered toast, spread 
with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. White 
sauce or HoUandaise may be served. 

The asparagus may be broken in inch pieces, cooked 
until tender, mixed with white sauce, and served on 
toast. 

Shelled Beans 

Cook in boiling water until tender. Add salt after 
the first hour. Time of cooking depends upon age of 
beans. Drain. Serve with butter or cream or white 
sauce. Lima, kidney, or agricultural beans may be 
cooked in this way. 



VEGETABLES 99 

String Beans 

Remove all strings. Cut in inch pieces. Wash, cook 
in boiling water fifteen minutes. Add salt and cook until 
tender. Drain, add butter, salt and pepper. A piece of 
salt pork cooked with beans is considered by many an im- 
provement. 

Brussels Sprouts and Cabbage 

Remove outside leaves and soak in cold water for 
half an hour. Drain. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, changing the water at least once during cooking. 
Serve Brussels sprouts whole with butter and salt or with 
white sauce. Chop the cabbage when cooked, season with 
salt, pepper and butter, reheat and serve, or mix with one 
cup cabbage, with one cup white sauce, cover with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Kohl Slaw 

Shred cabbage finely. Soak in acidulated water. 
Drain, and cover with cream dressing. Serve very cold. 

Beets 

Scrub beets, but do not break skin. Cook in boiling 

water — young beets about an hour, old beets until tender. 

Slip skins off as soon as taken from stove. Serve hot with 

butter, salt and pepper. Serve cold beets for garnishing 

potato salad. 

Carrots 

Wash, scrub, and scrape. Cook in boiling salted water. 
Drain, cut in slices, and serve with white sauce; or they 
may be cut lengthwise and sauted in butter. 

Cauliflower 

Cut stalk close to flower, remove green leaves and soak 
in cold salted water one hour. Cook in cheese cloth bag 



100 lowney's cook book 

thirty to forty minutes. Remove from bag and serve with 
Hollandaise or white sauce, or scalloped with white sauce 
and crumbs. 

Celery- 
Celery is usually eaten raw as a relish. Or it may be 
scraped, cut in inch pieces, cooked until tender, and served 
in a white sauce, or drained and fried in deep fat. It 
may also be scalloped with chopped red pepper, white 
sauce and crumbs. 

Cucumbers 

Generally served sliced thinly and eaten raw. But if 
too old to serve in this way, they may be pared, cut in 
quarters, boiled, drained, mashed, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. 

Or they may be cut in quarters, dipped in batter, and 
fried in deep fat. 

Corn 

Remove husks and silk. Cook in a small amount of 
water from five to fifteen minutes. Cover while cooking 
with the inside green husks. Serve on the cob ; or cut 
from the cob and serve with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Corn may be made into fritters (see recipe) or mixed 
with beans for succotash. Also served as pudding mixed 
with eggs and milk. 

Greens 

Beet tops, dandelions, spinach, Swiss chard, young cab- 
bage sprouts, cowslips, may all be prepared in the same 
way. Wash in many waters until all grit and sand are 
removed. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain, chop, and serve with butter and salt. Lettuce may 
also be cooked and served in this way. Garnish greens 
with hard-cooked eggs. 



VEGETABLES 101 

Egg Plant 

Cut in slices one half inch thick. Remove skin, sprin- 
kle with salt, pile slices one on another, cover with plate 
and weight, let stand over night. Drain, wash in cold 
water. Dry, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, or in batter, 

and fry in deep fat. 

Lentils 

Soak over night and cook in boiling water until tender. 
Mash, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve ; or 
make in balls and saute in butter. 

Okra 

Wash, cut off ends of pods, cover with boiling salted 
water, and cook until tender. Season with butter, salt 
and pepper. Okra is more often stewed or scalloped with 
tomato than served plain. 

Onions 

Peel, cover with boiling salted water. Change water 
every ten minutes until tender. Drain, and add milk to 
cover. Reheat, season with butter, salt and pepper ; or 
serve with white sauce ; or scallop with white sauce and 
crumbs ; or stuff. When boiled, remove hearts, and fill 
the space with finely chopped peppers. Surround with 
white sauce. Bake, and baste with butter. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant 
Scrape, wash, and cook until tender. Drain, mash, sea- 
son, and saute in butter ; or cut in inch lengths, dip in 
fritter batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Parsnips 
Wash, scrape, and cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der. Cut in halves, spread with salt and butter, and serve 
hot ; or mash, season, and saute in butter. 



102 lowney's cook book 

Stuffed Peppers 
See recipes under head of Vegetable Entrees. 

Boiled Macaroni 

Break in inch pieces and wash. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Drain, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and serve hot. 

Macaroni with Sauce 

Prepare as for Boiled Macaroni. Drain, and reheat in 
cream sauce, tomato sauce, or Becliamel sauce. 

Baked Macaroni 

Prepare boiled macaroni. Drain, arrange in layers in a 
buttered baking dish with white sauce and cheese. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni Baked with Tomatoes 

Arrange layers of cooked macaroni, stewed and sea- 
soned tomato, and chopped green pepper. Dot each layer 
with butter. Cover all with buttered cracker crumbs. 

Bake in hot oven. 

Boiled Rice 

Wash one cup rice and drain. Fill a four-quart sauce- 
pan one half full of boiling salted water. Place on hot- 
test part of range. Wlien boiling rapidly, sprinkle in the 
rice slowly, not to stop the boiling. Cook until tender, 
adding more water if needed. Drain in a colander, and 
place in the open oven to dry. 

Rice cooked in this way will have every grain separate. 

Summer Squash 

Wash and cut in quarters. Cook in boiling salted wa- 
ter until tender. Drain in cheese cloth. Add butter, 
salt and pepper. Reheat and serve. 



VEGETABLES 103 

Winter Squash 

Cut squash, remove seeds, and steam or boil until soft. 

Remove squash from shell. Add butter, salt and pepper. 

Reheat and serve. 

Baked Squash 

Cut in pieces for serving. Remove seeds and stringy 
portion, brush with molasses, season with salt and pepper. 
Bake until soft, add butter, and serve in shell. 

Broiled Tomatoes 

Cut tomatoes in halves. Sprinkle each half with salt, 
pepper, and fine bread crumbs, and broil five minutes. 
Slip on to hot platter, dot with butter, place in the 
oven for five minutes. Serve hot. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Cut tomatoes in quarters lengthwise ; season with salt 
and pepper, dip in batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Sauted Tomatoes 

Slice tomatoes ; season with salt and j^epper. Dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and saute in hot frying pan. 
Serve on hot buttered toast. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Arrange in layers canned tomatoes and bread cut in 
cubes, sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, dot with 
butter. Bake one half hour. For variety rub dish with 
onion before putting in tomato. 

Stuffed Tomato 

Cut a thin slice from smooth end of tomatoes. Scoop 
out pulp, mix with an equal quantity of cold cooked rice, 
macaroni, or bread crumbs. Add salt, pepper, butter and 



104 LOWNEY^S COOK BOOK 

a few drops of onion juice. Refill tomato shells, cover 
with tops, and bake one half hour. 

Peas 

Cook peas in boiling water. Use just enough water to 
keep them from burning. Add salt fifteen minutes be- 
fore taking them from the fire. Season with butter and 
pepper. 

Peas may be used for croquettes or may be used with 
white sauce and served in croustade cases. 

Equal quantities of chopped carrots and peas served 
together are delicious. 

Turnips in White Sauce 

Wash and pare; cut in pieces. Cook, mash, and season; 
or cut in cubes, cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
and serve in white sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Potatoes may be boiled with skins on, or may be pared 
and boiled in salted water. Old potatoes should be 
soaked in cold water at least an hour. Potatoes should 
be boiled gently and not furiously. 

When tender, drain thoroughly, dry on back of range. 
Shake saucepan, cover with coarse towel until ready to 
serve. 

Serve in open vegetable dish, never in a closed one. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water. Drain, mash. 
To each cup of mashed potato, allow one tablespoon 
butter, one half teaspoon salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper, 
and hot milk to make of creamy consistency. Beat with 
a fork until light. 



VEGETABLES 105 

Potato Balls 

Add to one pint hot mashed potatoes, one eighth tea- 
spoon celery salt, one teaspoon chopped parsley, salt, 
pepper, and butter to taste, and enough hot milk to make 
of consistency to shape. Form into smooth round balls, 
bake in hot buttered pan; or saute in butter; or fry in deep 
fat. Or they may be sauted in sausage fat, which gives an 
appetizing flavor. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut two cups cold boiled potatoes in very thin slices, or 
in cubes. Add one cup white sauce. Season highly and 
reheat in double boiler. Serve in hot dish sprinkled 
with finely chopped parsley. 

Stewed Potatoes 

Mix two cups potato cubes with two tablespoons butter, 
two cups milk, salt and pepper. 

Dredge with two tablespoons flour and cook twenty 
minutes in double boiler. 



Scalloped Potatoes 

Mix two cups potato cubes with two cups white sauce, 
cover with buttered bread crumbs, and bake thirty 
minutes in hot oven. A few drops onion juice may be 
added. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Melt two tablespoons butter. Add one tablespoon finely 
chopped onion. When onion is yellow, add two cups 
potato cubes. Season with salt and pepper, cook until 
potatoes are heated through, and sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley, and serve. 



106 lowney's cook book 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare small raw potatoes, divide in halves, and cut each 

half in three pieces; cover with boiling water and let stand 

three minutes. Drain dry between cloths, and cook in 

frying basket in hot fat ten minutes. Drain, sprinkle 

with salt, and serve. 

Potato Chips 

Slice raw potatoes, cover with cold water, and let soak 
over night. Drain dry between towels and fry in frying 
basket in hot fat about ten minutes. Drain and sprinkle 
with salt. Care must be used when lowering the basket 
into the hot fat, as the potatoes contain so much water it 
causes violent ebullition. 

Potato Puif 

Prepare two cups hot mashed potato. Add one half 
cup milk, two well-beaten yolks, two tablespoons butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Beat well; add beaten whites of 
two eggs. Pile lightly in buttered baking dish and bake 
until puffed and brown. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Sprinkle two cups cold boiled potato cubes with salt 
and pepper. Melt one tablespoon butter; add one table- 
spoon flour and one half cup brown stock. Cook five 
minutes; add potato cubes; cook ten minutes, stirring, 
without breaking potatoes. Melt one tablespoon butter 
in another frying pan. When brown, turn in potatoes, 
spread evenly, and cook ten minutes; fold like an omelet, 

and serve hot. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Bake six potatoes. When done, cut a lengthwise slice ; 
scoop out the potato with a spoon. Mash ; add one table- 
spoon butter, salt, pepper, one half cup milk, and two eggs, 



VEGETABLES 107 

whites beaten stiff. Refill skins with this mixture. Pile 
lightly, do not smooth, and bake until potatoes are puffed 
and brown. 

French Potato Balls 

Cut two cups of potato balls with French potato cutter. 
Parboil ten minutes, drain, and fry in deep fat. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel 

Cook two cups potato balls in boiling water until tender. 
Drain, and serve with maitre d'hotel butter. 

Italian Potatoes 

Mix two cups hot mashed potatoes, one teaspoon onion 
juice, one tablesj^oon finely chopped parsley, one egg yolk 
well beaten, four stiffly beaten whites, one half cup grated 
cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Pile lightly in bak- 
ing dish and bake until brown. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare six medium-sized potatoes ; parboil five minutes. 
Place on grate under roast beef. Baste with beef fat, and 
bake from twenty to thirty minutes, turning often. 

Baked Potatoes 

Wash and scrub six potatoes of uniform size. Place in 
dripping pan, and bake in hot oven forty-five minutes to 
one hour, turning when half done. Pierce with skewer, 
and serve immediately. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Brush with butter and 
sprinkle with brown sugar. Brown in hot oven. 



108 lowney\s cook book 

Southern Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in lengthwise slices. 
Arrange in layers in buttered baking dish. Cover each 
layer with brown sugar, dot with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, add one cup boiling water, and bake in 
hot oven. 



CHAPTER VI 
CEREALS 

Suggestions for Cooking Cereals 

Mix the cereal very gradually with the amount of boil- 
ing salted water, and cook in double boiler until done. To 
hasten the cooking, cook in single boiler or saucepan for 
the first part of the time, stirring constantly to keep grain 
from sticking. 

As a rule, cook steam-cooked cereals twice the time 
given on the package. 

Coarse cereals, like rice and hominy, should be cooked in 
a large quantity of water, and stirred as little as possible. 

Fine cereals, like wheatena, wheat germ, and others, are 
more easily kept from lumping by first mixing them with 
a small amount of cold water, and then adding to the boil- 
ing water. 

Rolled Oats 

1 cup rolled oats If cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix all ingredients, and cook in double boiler thirty 
minutes to one hour. 

Old-fashioned Oatmeal 

1 cup oatmeal 4 cups boiUng water 

H teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients, and cook in double boiler six to eight 
hours. 

109 



110 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Boiled Hominy No. i 

1 cup hominy (fine) 4 cups boiling water 

1| teaspoons salt 

Cook all ingredients, stirring occasionally, for one honr. 

Boiled Hominy No. 2 

1 cup coarse hominy 8 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients and cook six to eight hours, or, instead 
of boiling, cook in double boiler all day. 

Cracked Wheat 

1 cup wheat 5 cups boiling water 

1^ teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients and cook in double boiler from three 

to five hours. 

Prepared Cereals 

The recipes given on the packages for all prepared ce- 
reals may be followed, doubling the amount of time given. 

Boiled Rice No. 2 

1 cup rice 24 cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Salt water, add rice a few grains at a time, so as not to 
stop the boiling, boil rapidly one half hour. When grains 
are tender, drain in colander, and pour boiling water 
over rice to wash starch from grains. Serve immediately. 

Steamed Rice 

1 cup rice 21 cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Place rice in earthen dish, add salt and boiling water, 
and steam two to three hours. Cooked in this way, every 
grain should be separate. 



CEREALS 111 

Corn Meal Mush 

1 cup corn meal 4 cups boiling water 

1| teaspoons salt 

Salt water, add corn meal, a little at a time, until all is 
used, boil five minutes, and cook in double boiler three 
hours. 

Sauted or Fried Corn Meal Mush 

1 cup corn meal 4 cups boiling water 

I cup white flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook in the same way as corn meal mush, pour while 
hot into greased bread pan or baking powder box. When 
cold, slice and saute in pork fat, first on one side and then 
on the other ; or fry in deep fat. 



CHAPTER VII 
EGGS 

A FRESH egg sinks when immersed in water. A stale 
egg^ owing to evaporation which has taken place through 
the pores of the shell, floats. 

Soft-cooked Eggs No. i 

Place eggs in saucepan, cover with boiling water, and 

let them stand in saucepan on the back of the range three 

minutes; in this way the white and the yolk are slightly 

coagulated. 

Soft-cooked Eggs No. 2 

Fill saucepan one half fall of boiling water ; when boil- 
ing violently, place eggs in gently with a tablespoon ; when 
water bubbles, remove saucepan from fire and let the eggs 
remain in water five minutes. Eggs cooked in this way 
have the albumen delicately hardened throughout. 

Soft-cooked Eggs No. 3 

Place eggs in saucepan, cover with cold water, bring to 
the boiling point, when they will be soft-cooked. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cover eggs with boiling water and cook below the boil- 
ing point for forty minutes. Remove from pan, cover 
with cold water, and wipe before serving. 

Baked Eggs 

Butter baking dish or platter, or individual ramekin 
dishes. Break each egg into a cup and drop into baking 

112 



EGGS 118 

dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate 
oven — live minutes for soft-cooked and ten for hard- 
cooked. Eggs are more delicately cooked if dish is placed 
in a pan of hot water in the oven, and water kept below 
the boiling point during cooking. 

Chopped red or green pepper sprinkled over top of baked 

eggs is delicious. 

Poached Eggs 

Break eggs in cup ; butter muffin rings. Place in shal- 
low pan and cover with boiling water. Allow two tea- 
spoons of salt to each pint of water. Drop eggs into 
rings, and cook from five to eight minutes, keeping water 
below the boiling point during cooking. 

Remove the eggs on a buttered skimmer or pancake 
turner, and place on a round of buttered toast, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and garnish with parsley. 

Fluffed Eggs 

Beat the white until stiff ; add a few grains of salt ; place 
in a buttered ramekin dish or saucer; put a piece of butter 
in center of white, and place unbroken yolk on top. Set 
the Qgg dish in pan of boiling water ; cover and cook 
three minutes. Serve immediately. 

Poached Eggs a la Fran9aise 

Fill a saucepan three fourths full of boiling water ; add 
salt and vinegar, stir the boiling water vigorously with a 
spoon. Break egg in cup and drop deftly into eddy 
formed by swift stirring of water. When white is firm, 
remove with buttered skimmer, trim, and serve. 

Poached Egg in Tomato 

Cut a piece from the stem end of a tomato ; remove pulp ; 
set in ramekin dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, being 



114 lowney's cook book 

careful not to break the yolk ; cover with buttered paper. 
Set in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven until 
firm. 

Scrambled Eggs No. i 

4 eggs ^ teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons milk or cream 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 

Beat egg slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites ; 
add seasonings, parsley and milk. Melt butter in frying 
pan, add egg mixture, and cook slowl}', lifting carefully 
with a spoon to keep mixture uniformly delicate. 

Scrambled Eggs No. 2 

Prepare the same as Scrambled Eggs No. 1, beating 
yolks and whites separately. Many persons have better 
success scrambling eggs in a double boiler instead of in a 
frying pan. 

Scrambled eggs can be varied in appearance and flavor 
by adding various cliopped meats, condiments, vegetables, 
cheese, or mushrooms. 

Fried Eggs 

Melt butter, bacon fat or pork fat in frying pan ; when 
it bubbles, turn in egg^ which has been previously broken 
into a cup ; when white is set, baste with liquid fat. If 
desired hard, turn and cook on both sides. 

Omelet 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons hot water or hot milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Beat eggs well ; add salt and milk. Melt butter in fry- 
ing pan ; add egg mixture ; shake pan vigorously until 
egg begins to brown on under side ; then let it stand until 



EGGS 115 

golden brown, on part of range where it will not burn. 
If moist on top, place in oven to dry. Separate omelet 
from sides of pan with knife, and beginning at side near 
the handle, roll omelet slowly and carefully into the shape 
of a jelly roll; turn on to a hot platter, garnish, and serve. 

Omelets may be varied in the following ways: — 

Bacon Omelet^ by adding finely chopped cooked bacon 
before folding. 

Cheese Omelet^ by adding grated cheese before folding. 

Creamed Salt Fish Omelet^ by combining creamed salt 
fish and finely chopped red pepper, and adding to omelet 
before folding. 

Kidney Omelet^ by adding stewed kidneys, highly 
seasoned. 

Mushroom Omelet^ by adding mushrooms. 

And continuing through a multiplicity of combinations. 

Foamy Omelet 

Same ingredients as for first omelet, beating yolks and 
whites separately and combining ingredients in a way to 
produce a foamy appearance before pouring into omelet 
pan. 

Creamy Omelet 

4 eggs I teaspoon pepper 

\ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

J cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt butter ; add flour, milk, and yolks of eggs, beaten 
until lemon-colored and thick. Beat whites until stiff, 
cut, and fold into first mixture; add seasonings; pour into 
buttered pan, and cook as first omelet. Turn on to a hot 
platter ; garnish with white sauce, and parsley. 

Note. — For a sweet omelet add one fourth cup sugar to the yolks 
of eggs of above omelet. 



116 LOWNEY'8 COOK BOOK 

Goldenrod Eggs 

6 slices butter toast ^ teaspoon salt 

6 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

2 cups white sauce I teaspoon pepper 

Remove shell from eggs ; chop whites finely ; add to 
white sauce. Press yolks through sieve and add season- 
ings. Pour white sauce over toast arranged on a platter, 
and garnish with yolks of eggs and parsley. 

This dish may be very attractively arranged by placing 
spoonfuls of finely chopped ham around the toast. 

Stuffed Eggs 

6 eggs hard-cooked ^ cup finely minced chicken or 

I cup white sauce other meat 

1 tablespoon chopped red salt, pepper, Worcestershire sauce 

pepper 

Cut eggs in halves lengthwise, remove yolks, and mash. 
Add meat and seasonings ; moisten with white sauce ; press 
in shape of ball and return to white. These eggs may be 
placed in a dish, covered with white sauce and buttered 
crumbs, and baked; or covered with a small square of paraf- 
fine paper daintily twisted at the ends, for a picnic dish. 

French Omelet 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons hot water few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon butter 

Melt butter in frying pan, add well-beaten eggs, to 
which seasonings and hot water have been added. Cook 
on cool portion of range, lifting mixture as for scrambled 
eggs. When creamy, pour into a hot buttered frying 
pan, brown delicately, fold, and serve. Garnish with 
parsley. 



EGGS 117 

German Omelet 

2 eggs salt, pepper, nutmeg 

1 yolk 4 cup finely chopped chives 
\ cup cream 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon finely chopped red 

pepper 

Mix eggs, flour, seasonings ; add cream, and beat all five 

minutes. Melt butter, pour in egg mixture, and cook 

until delicately browned underneath. Turn, fold, and 

serve. 

Spanish Omelet 

Use recipe for French Omelet, and garnish with Span- 
ish sauce. 

Spanish sauce is made by sauteing two tablespoons each 
of chop23ed onion, green pepper, a clove of garlic, in four 
tablespoons butter until yellow; add one cup of tomato. 
Season with salt, pepper and cayenne, and cook until 
thick. One half cup mushrooms sauted with onions is an 
improvement. 



CHAPTER VIII 
SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter \ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour few grains cayenne 

1 cup milk or white stock \ teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, seasonings and liquid. Stir until 

the boiling point is reached. Boil five minutes, beating 

constantly. 

Brown Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk or brown stock 

4 tablespoons flour i teaspoon salt 

few grains pepper 

Melt the butter and cook until brown, add flour and 
seasonings, and stir until brown. Add liquid, little at a 
time, and boil five minutes, stirring all of the time. 

Allemande Sauce 

Use same ingredients as for Veloute Sauce, adding the 

yolks of two eggs and one teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Cook one minute. 

Bechamel Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter bit of bay leaf 
2 tablespoons flour I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped carrot 1 cup white stock 

Saute vegetables in butter. Remove vegetables, add 
flour and remaining ingredients, boil two minutes, and 
simmer ten minutes. 

A richer sauce is made by adding one half cup cream. 

118 



sauc:es for meat and vegetables 119 

Bearnaise Sauce 

4 egg yolks 4 tablespoons oil or butter 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar 
cayenne 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Mix yolks and water ; add butter and set in a dish of hot 
water ; stir constantly until mixture thickens ; add season- 
ings and serve immediately. 

Tomato Bearnaise Sauce 

To Bearnaise Sauce add one fourth cup tomato puree. 

Both Bearnaise and Tomato Bearnaise Sauces must be 
cooked at a low temperature, otherwise the mixture will 
not be smooth. The sauce should be creamy and of the 
consistency of mayonnaise dressing. 

Bread Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter sprig of parsley 

1 cup bread crumbs ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

3 cloves If cups milk 
bit of bay leaf bit of mace 

Scald milk with seasonings, cook twenty minutes, strain; 
add crumbs and butter, cook twenty minutes, and serve 
with game. 

Browned Bread Sauce 

Use same rule as for Bread Sauce, adding one cup 
crumbs, which have been sauted a light brown in butter. 

Black Butter Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon parsley 
few grains cayenne 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Brown butter, add remaining ingredients. Serve. 



120 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Caper Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter few grains cayenne 

4 tablespoons flour li cups boiling water 

^ teaspoon salt I cup capers 

few drops onion juice 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt the two tablespoons batter, add flour, seasonings, 
and water. Cook ten minutes ; add capers and just before 
serving a tablespoon butter. 

Celery Sauce 

Use recipe for White Sauce, using instead of one cup of 
milk, one half cup of milk and one half cup of water in 
which celery was cooked. 

Add just before serving two cups of chopped celery 
which has been boiled until tender. 

Champagne Sauce 

Add to Brown Sauce, one half cup of champagne and 
two tablespoons finely chopped pimentoes. 

Chestnut Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 cup stock 1 cup mashed chestnuts 

Melt butter; add flour and seasonings. When smooth, 

add stock; boil five minutes; add chestnuts; reheat and 

serve. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add one half cup currant jelly, one tea- 
spoon lemon juice and a few drops onion juice. Boil five 

minutes and serve. 

Curry Sauce 

Add to White Sauce one tablespoon curry and a few 
drops of onion juice. There is less liability of the curry 
lumping if blended with the flour before adding to butter. 



SAUCES FOB MEAT AND VEGETABLES 121 

Cucumber Sauce 

Grate two cucumbers to pulp; add one teaspoon salt, 
one fourth teaspoon pepper, few grains cayenne, few drops 
onion juice, and two tablespoons vinegar. 

Egg Sauce 

To White Sauce add two hard-cooked eggs finely 

chopped. 

Yellow Egg Sauce 

To White Sauce add few drops of onion juice and the 
yolks of three eggs; salt and pepper if necessary. 

Espagnole Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons butter; add two tablespoons each 
of onion, celery, ham, red pepper, and parsley, three table- 
spoons flour, one half teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne 
and two cups white stock. Cook one hour. Strain, serve. 

HoUandaise Sauce 

4 egg yolks \ teaspoon pepper 

^ cup butter few grains cayenne 

I teaspoonf ul salt i cup cold water 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Put all ingredients, except the lemon juice, into a sauce- 
pan; set saucepan into a larger one of hot water. Beat 
constantly until mixture thickens, keeping water below 
the boiling point all the time. Add lemon juice and serve 

immediately. 

HoUandaise Sauce No. 2 

I cup butter { teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice ^ teaspoon paprika 

4 egg yolks few grains cayenne 

Cream butter; add lemon juice, yolks of eggs, one by 
one. When well blended add seasonings and cook over 
boiling water, just long enough to thoroughly heat the 



122 lowney's cook book 

mixture. Should the mixture become overcooked, add 
two teaspoons cold water and beat vigorously. 

Horse-radish Sauce 

I cup freshly grated horse- 1 cup White Sauce 

radish ^ teaspoon paprika 

J cup soft bread crumbs 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Mix horse-radish, bread crumbs, salt, paprika and White 
Sauce. When hot, add lemon juice and vinegar. 

Horse-radish Hollandaise 

To Hollandaise Sauce add a few drops of onion juice 
and five tablespoons grated horse-radish. 

Lobster Sauce 

To White Sauce, add one half tablespoon lemon juice, 

one cup chopped lobster meat, and the dried and pounded 

lobster coral. 

Lobster Hollandaise 

To Hollandaise Sauce, add few gratings of nutmeg, one 

cup chopped lobster meat, and the dried and pounded 

coral. 

Madeira Sauce 

1 cup Brown Sauce 1 tablespoon chopped pimento 

1 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 4 tablespoons Madeira 
1 tablespoon chopped celery few grains cayenne 

Combine all ingredients, except Madeira; simmer one 
half hour. Add Madeira and serve. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons lemon juice \ teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons parsley cayenne 

Cream the butter and add remaining ingredients. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 123 

Milanaise Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon capers 

3 tablespoons chopped 3 tablespoons flour 

mushrooms 1| cups stock 

1 teaspoon anchovy paste cayenne 

salt 2 tablespoons wine 

Cook mushrooms, capers and anchovy in butter five 

minutes. Add flour, stock, seasonings, and simmer one 

half hour. Add wine and serve. 

Mint Sauce 

1 bunch mint 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup vinegar 

Wash mint, remove leaves, and chop ; add remaining 
ingredients ; let it stand one half hour. Serve hot or cold. 

Mustard Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon French mus- i teaspoon sugar 
tard few grains cayenne 

1 cup stock 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, sugar and cayenne. 
When well blended, add stock, simmer twenty minutes, 
add vinegar, and serve. 

Mushroom Sauce 
1 cup Brown Sauce 1 tablespoon butter 

I cup canned mushrooms 1 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

1 egg yolk salt, pepper, cayenne 

Chop mushrooms, saute in butter, add egg yolk and 
kitchen bouquet; when well blended add Brown Sauce. 
Reheat and serve, seasoning if necessary. 

Mushroom Sauce No. 2 
1 cup White Sauce 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup fresh mushrooms 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon mushroom 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce 

catsup i teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon wine 



124 lowney's cook book 

Chop mushrooms, and saute in butter; add to White 
Sauce ; cook ten minutes. Add remaining ingredients 
and serve. 

Olive Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add one teaspoon chopped onion and 
one half cup stoned, chopped, and boiled olives. 

Onion Sauce 

To one cup White Sauce add one half cup cream and 

one cup boiled onions, finely chopped. Simmer twenty 

minutes. 

Orange Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter \ cup Port wine 

4 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons currant jelly 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 cup stock 

\ teaspoon salt juice and grated rind of two oranges 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, stock, cook ten 
minutes ; add currant jelly, cook five minutes ; add orange 
juice, rind, and wine. Serve when hot. 

Orange Hollandalse 

To HoUandaise Sauce add juice and rind of one orange 
and few grains of cayenne. 

Oyster Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup oysters 

4 tablespoons flour \ teaspoon salt 

\\ cups oyster liquor few grains cayenne 

Parboil oysters ; drain and reserve liquor. Make a 
White Sauce, with butter, flour, seasonings, and oyster 
liquor ; add chopped oysters and serve. Should there not 
be sufficient oyster liquor make up amount with milk. 



SAUC£S FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 125 

Pepper Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two tablespoons chopped pepper, 
one tablespoon chopped onion, or a clove of garlic, one 
teaspoon parsley, one teaspoon kitchen bouquet. Simmer 
one half hour, strain and serve. 

Piquante Sauce 

3 tablespoons batter 1 tablespoon chopped chives 

4 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon chopped olives 
I teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped pepper 
1^ cups Brown Stock 1 tablespoon chopped pickle 
I teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon capers 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Brown the butter; add the flour; when browned, add 
stock. Cook chives, capers, pickles, olives and pepper in 
vinegar five minutes. Add to sauce and simmer twenty 
minutes. 

Poulette Sauce 

To White Sauce add one half cup cream ; when boiling 
pour on to two egg yolks slightly beaten, cook one minute; 
add one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and two tablespoons lemon juice. 

Port Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two tablespoons butter in which 
have been cooked one tablespoon onion, one tablespoon 
Worcestershire Sauce, and one half cup Port wine. 

Ravigote Sauce 

Melt four tablespoons butter ; add one half cup onion. 
Add to one cup of Bechamel Sauce, with one tablespoon 
each of minced and pounded chives, tarragon, parsley and 
thyme. Strain and serve after reheating. 



126 zowney's cook book 

Sorrel Sauce 

To Hollandaise Sauce add one cup washed and chopped 

sorrel. 

Shrimp Sauce 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup flour \ teaspoon pepper 

11 cups hot water 2 egg yolks 

I cup shrimps 

Melt butter ; add flour. When well blended, add hot 

water, cook thirty minutes ; add seasonings and pour on 

to the slightly beaten yolks of eggs ; add shrimps broken 

in pieces and serve. 

Sauce Supreme 

To White Saace made with white stock, add one half 
cup of cream, two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon lemon 
juice. Cook twenty minutes and add one fourth cup wine. 

Soubise Sauce 

To Hollandaise Sauce, add one cup finely chopped 
cooked and seasoned onion. 

Sauce Tartare 

To one cup of mayonnaise dressing add one tablespoon 

each of finely chopped parsley, finely chopped olives, 

finely chopped pickle, and one teaspoon finely chopped 

chives. 

Tomato Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon parsley 

2 tablespoons onion ^ teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons carrot 1 cup stock 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup tomato 

Melt butter; add onion, carrot and parsley. Cook five 
minutes. Strain. To butter add flour ; when well 
blended add stock and tomato. Simmer one half hour. 
Serve. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 127 

Tomato Cream Sauce 

1 cup White Sauce 1 tablespoon kitchen bouquet 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped celery ^ teaspoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 cup tomatoes 
I teaspoon soda 

Melt butter; add celery and onion, cook five minutes; 
add tomatoes; cook ten minutes. Strain; add soda. To 
White Sauce add kitchen bouquet and Worcestershire 
Sauce; cook five minutes. 

Combine Tomato Sauce and White Sauce; add lemon 

juice and serve. 

Trianon Sauce 

To Holland aise Sauce, add one half cup sauted mush- 
rooms and two tablespoons wine. 

Veloute Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter nutmeg 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup white stock 

^ teaspoon salt ' ^ cup cream 

I cup mushrooms 

Melt butter; add mushrooms, flour, salt, nutmeg and 
white stock; simmer ten minutes. Add cream and cook 
in double boiler one half hour. Just before serving add 
one tablespoon butter. 



CHAPTER IX 
ENTREES 

Chicken Force Meat 

1 cup cooked chicken ^ cup soft bread crumbs 

salt, pepper I cup hot milk 

lemon juice, onion juice 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Chop meat and press through a sieve. Soak bread in 

milk; add it with remaining ingredients to chicken; season 

highly and use as a filling in fontage cups, or shape in 

balls and poach in hot water, or shape in balls, roll in flour, 

and saute. 

Tomato Force Meat 

1 tomato finely chopped 2 tablespoons butter 

1 pimento finely chopped 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup raw fish finely chopped \ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Melt butter; add onion, cook three minutes; add remain- 
ing ingredients, cook ten minutes. Use as filling for fish 
sandwiches, or spread over fish chops, or poach and serve 

with White Sauce. 

Aspic Jelly 

2 quarts consomme 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 
1 tablespoon lemon juice ^ cup hot water 

Boil consomme with lemon juice until reduced to one 
quart. Season well and clear. Soak gelatine in two table- 
spoons cold water and dissolve in hot water, add to clear 
consomme, strain, and use as a mold for fish, meats and 
salads. It is very necessary that the consomme be highly 
seasoned, as the success of the aspic depends on the flavor. 

128 



ENTREES 129 

Quick Aspic Jelly 
A quick and satisfactory aspic is made by dissolving 
three tablespoons Liebig's beef extract in one quart boil- 
ing water, seasoning well with lemon juice, onion juice, 
sherry wine, salt and pepper. Clear, add two tablespoons 
dissolved gelatine, and use the same as Aspic Jelly. 

Chicken Souffle 

\\ cups chicken ^ cup chicken stock 

\ cup mushrooms \ cup cream 

2 tablespoons butter salt and cayenne 

4 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon parsley 

\ cup bread crumbs 3 egg whites 

3 egg yolks \ cup sheriy 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings, stock, cream, chicken, 
mushrooms, bread crumbs ; cook ten minutes ; add Qgg 
yolks and cut and fold in whites beaten until stiff, and the 
sherry. Bake in buttered baking dish forty minutes. 
Serve immediately with or without Mushroom Sauce. 

Chicken Timbales 

2 cups raw chicken meat \ teaspoon salt 

\ cup bread crumbs — soft few grains cayenne 

1 cup beaten cream 4 egg whites beaten until stiff 

Chop meat and press through sieve ; add remaining in- 
gredients and fill buttered timbale molds which have been 
previously sprinkled with finely chopped pickles or olives. 
Bake in pan of hot water twenty minutes. Remove and 
serve with Hollandaise Sauce or Parmesan Sauce. 

Chicken Mousse 

1 cup chicken stock 2 teaspoons granulated gelatine 

\ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cold w^ater 

paprika and celery salt 1 cup beaten cream 

1 cup cold cooked chicken 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

2 egg whites 



130 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Heat chicken stock ; add seasoning, gelatine which has 
been soaked in cold water. When dissolved, add chicken 
finely chopped, beaten cream; beat well; cut and fold in 
the beaten whites ; pour into buttered molds and chill for 
two or three hours. Serve as a salad with mayonnaise. 

Lobster Mousse 

Lobster mousse may be prepared in the same way as 
chicken mousse, substituting lobster meat for chicken. 

Fish Timbales 

1 cup raw fish few grains cayenne 

I cup almonds 1 cup whipped cream 

1 teaspoon salt 4 egg whites 

few drops onion juice 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Chop fish and press through a sieve ; add onion juice, 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. When well mixed add 
whipped cream, almonds finely chopped, and egg whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. 

Fill buttered timbale molds with this mixture, set in 
pan of hot water, and bake ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
hot with Cucumber or Tomato Sauce, or cold, with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Imperial Fish Timbales 

1 cup cooked fish 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
I cup milk 1 teaspoon parsley 

3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

Melt butter ; add flour, milk, seasonings and parsley ; 
cook five minutes. Add fish, boil two minutes, egg yolks. 
Cool. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fill molds with 
this mixture. Set in a pan of hot water and bake twenty 
minutes. 



ENTREES 131 

Remove from mold and serve at once with Lobster, 
Shrimp, or HoUandaise Sauce. 

Lobster Timbales 
Follow recipe for Fish Timbales, substituting one cup of 
lobster meat for fish and adding one half cup mushrooms 
finely chopped. Cook same as Fish Timbales. Serve 
with Bechamel Sauce, garnish each timbale with a sprig of 
parsley, and sprinkle coral pressed through a sieve over all. 

Chicken Livers in Fontage Cups 
1 cup chicken livers \ cup chicken stock 

\ cup salt pork cubes 2 tablespoons flour 

\ cup mushrooms 

Chop livers and saute in pork fat; add flour, stock and 
mushrooms. Cook five minutes, season to taste, and serve 
in fontage cups. 

Mock Terrapin in Fontage Cups 

1 cup chickens' livers ^ teaspoon salt 

\ cup cooked rice cayenne and nutmeg 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon parsley chopped 2 tablespoons flour 

\ cup cream 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings, cream, livers, and 
eggs finely chopped; cook five minutes; add rice; reheat 
and serve in fontage cups. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups 

2 cups cooked sweetbreads 2 tablespoons butter 
\ cup mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon oil | cup cream 

\ tablespoon vinegar salt, pepper, cayenne 

Melt butter ; add flour, seasonings and cream; cook five 
minutes. Cover sweetbreads and mushrooms with oil and 
vinegar, and let stand twenty minutes, drain, add to sauce, 
reheat, and serve in fontage cups. 



132 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Sweetbreads and Chicken in Fontage Cups 

Substitute one half cup cold cooked chicken cut in small 
pieces for the one half cup of mushrooms, and proceed as 
for Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups. 

Creamed Oysters and Celery in Fontage Cups 

1 pint oysters 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter \ cup cream 

1 tablespoon lemon juice salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons wine 

1 cup chopped celery 

Melt butter, add oysters and cook one minute. Remove 
oysters, add remaining ingredients except wine, cook until 
thick, add oysters and wine, and serve in fontage cups. 

Creamed Lobster in Fontage Cups 

2 cups lobster meat 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter | cup chicken stock 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

\ cup cream 1 Qgg yolk 

salt and cayenne 

Melt butter; add onion, flour, stock and lemon juice; 
cook five minutes; season with salt and pepper; add 
cream, in which yolk of egg has been beaten, and lobster 
meat. When hot, serve in fontage cups. 

Creamed Crabs in Fontage Cups 

Substitute two cups crab meat cut in fine pieces for lob- 
ster meat and proceed as for Creamed Lobster. 

Creamed Shrimps in Fontage Cups 

Substitute two cups shrimps broken in small pieces for 
lobster meat, and follow rule for Creamed Lobster. 



ENTEEES 133 

Shad Roe Croquettes 

2 cups cooked shad roe 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

2 egg yolks salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 tablespoon parsley lemon juice 

Cut shad roe in small pieces ; add seasonings, sauce and 

yolks of eggs. Shape ; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs ; 

fry. 

Lobster Croquettes 

2 cups chopped lobster meat 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
salt, pepper and cayenne 1 tablespoon parsley 

I teaspoon nutmeg 2 hard-cooked egg yolks 

1 cup Croquette Sauce 

Mix ingredients in order given ; shape in croquette or 
chop form ; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Fry in deep 
fat. If in chop form, make incision and insert small lob- 
ster claw. 

Meat, Rice, and Tomato Croquettes 
1 cup chopped meat salt, pepper and cayenne 

1 cup hot rice lemon juice 

1 cup Croquette Sauce made with onion juice 
tomato instead of milk 

Mix ingredients in order given ; shape ; dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs ; fry in deep fat. 

Fontage Cups or Timbale Cases 

^ cup flour 1 egg yolk 

I teaspoon salt cayenne 

1 tablespoon olive oil ^ cup milk 

Mix ingredients in order given until smooth, strain, and 
let stand over night in a warm place. Heat fontage iron 
in hot fat, drain, dip in batter, place in hot fat, and fry un- 
til a delicate brown. Remove from iron, invert, and drain. 

These cups are used for all kinds of creamed mixtures 
and forcemeats, and are used instead of patty shells and 
croustades. 



134 lowney's cook book 

Sauce for Croquette Mixtures 

3 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 

5 tablespoons flour celery salt 

1 cup stock or milk lemon juice 

few drops onion juice 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings and milk. Cook 
until thick. This sauce is sufficient to thicken two cups of 
meat, for all kinds of croquettes. It may be varied by 
adding two egg yolks or one egg. 

Chicken Croquettes 

2 cu2:)s chicken meat 1 cup Croquette Sauce 
salt, pepper, lemon juice onion juice 

Cut meat in small pieces; add seasonings and White 
Sauce. Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. These croquettes may be varied by adding one 
fourth cup of chopped mushrooms, ham, sweetbreads, or 
truffles. More or less sauce is required according to the 
dryness of chicken. 

Sweetbread and Mushroom Croquettes 

1 cup mushrooms cut in 1 cup cold cooked sweetbreads 

small pieces cut in dice 

salt and pepper lemon juice and onion juice 

1 cup Croquette Sauce 

Saute mushrooms in butter; add seasonings, sauce. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry. 

Fish Croquettes 

2 cups cold cooked fish lemon juice and onion juice 
salt and pepper 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix all ingredients; add more lemon juice if needed. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 

One cup tomato may be substituted for the one cup 
milk or stock in Croquette Sauce. 



ENTREES 135 

Rolled Fillets of Flounder with Bechamel Sauce 

2 flounders salt, pepper and cayenne 

2 tablespoons butter i cup cream 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 4 lemons 

Make eight fillets from the flounder. Melt butter; add 
lemon juice and parsley. Dip fillets in this mixture; roll 
and skewer fillets; put in baking dish; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Cover with cream and cook in oven 
until tender. Arrange on platter, pour around the fillets 
Bechamel sauce, and garnish with lemon basket in the 
center, filled with sauce, yolks of eggs pressed through 
ricer and whites cut in shape of petals. 

Curried Lobster in Rice Timbales 

2 cups lobster meat 1 tablespoon curry 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream or stock 

2 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon chopped onion salt, paprika and cayenne 

Melt butter; add onion; when yellow add flour, curry 
and cream. Cook five minutes. Season; add egg yolks 
and lobster meat. Sprinkle with finely powdered coral if 
there is any. Fill rice timbale cases, reheat, and serve. 

Rice Timbale Cases 

1 cup rice lemon juice, onion juice 

salt, pepper and cayenne 4 cups milk 

Wash rice; add seasonings and milk. Cook in double 
boiler until milk is absorbed and rice is tender. 

Fill timbale molds, press rice in firmly, cool, scoop out 
center, and fill with any creamed mixture. 

Creamed Salmon in Rice Timbales 

Use rule for Curried Lobster, substituting two cups 
flaked salmon for lobster meat, and one half cup olives finely 



136 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

chopped for curry. Line one large mold with cooked 
rice, fill with creamed salmon, cover top with rice, and 
steam one half hour. Serve, garnish with individual rice 
timbales, parsley, and Tomato Cream Sauce. 

Chicken in Aspic 

1 cooked, boned chicken 2 hard-cooked eggs 

2 quarts aspic jelly mixture parsley 

Select a mold large enough to hold chicken, cover bot- 
tom of mould with Aspic Jelly Mixture, and set on ice to 
harden. Cut hard-cooked white of eggs into slices, cut 
yolk in slices, and stamp out small rounds with a vegeta- 
ble cutter. Cut white of Qgg slices to resemble petals. 
Arrange on top of the hardened jelly in the form of 
daisies, taking up each piece on a needle and dipping in 
liquid jelly before placing. Cover with jelly mixture, 
adding by spoonfuls to avoid disturbing the design. 

When hard place chicken on jelly, breast downward, 
cover with liquid jelly, and set away to harden. 

The sides may be decorated in the same way as the bot- 
tom if more elaboration is desired. 

Unmold, place on bed of parsley or lettuce, and garnish 
with pimentos or olives. 
Quail in Aspic — Pheasant in Aspic — Partridge in Aspic — 

Tongue in Aspic — Oysters in Aspic — Lobster in Aspic — 

Shrimp in Aspic — Chicken Breasts in Aspic — Tomatoes in 

j^spic — Cucumbers in Aspic — Eggs in Aspic — Aspic of Pate 

de Foie Gras 

Cover bottom of mold with Aspic Jelly Mixture; deco- 
rate with truffles cut in fancy shapes and foies gras cut in 
thin slices. Cover this with liquid aspic; when hard place 
roasted quail on jelly, cover with liquid jelly and chill. 
Decorate sides of top layer with hard-cooked white of 
Qgg cut in crescents. Unmold, garnish with cress, and 
serve with mayonnaise. 



ENTREES 137 

Scalloped Veal 

f 

Chop two cups of cold cooked veal; add one fourth tea- 
spoon salt, one fourth teaspoon onion juice, and one tea- 
spoon lemon jnice. Mix one half cup finely chopped 
cooked ham, one fourth teaspoon mustard, few grains cay- 
enne, tw^o tablespoons cracker crumbs, and moisten with 
white stock. Saute one fourth cup cracker crumbs in one 
fourth cup butter; add to chopped veal and moisten with 
white stock. 

Line a mold with slices of hard-cooked eggs, fill with 
alternate layers of ham mixture and veal. Pack tightly, 
cover with buttered paper, and steam one hour. Cool and 
serve in thin slices. 

The success of this dish depends on careful seasoning, 
and more may be needed than is given in the recipe. 

Veal Loaf 

Chop two pounds of lean veal and one fourth pound salt 
pork; add one cup cracker crumbs, three beaten eggs, one 
teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one teaspoon onion juice, 
and one tablespoon lemon juice. 

Moisten with well-flavored beef or veal stock. Press in 
buttered bread pan, cover. Baste occasionally during bak- 
ing. Bake one hour. 

Veal Croquettes 

Cut one pint veal in small pieces; add one tablespoon salt, 
one quarter teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon lemon juice. 
Melt three tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons finely 
minced onion, three tablespoons flour, and three fourths 
cup milk or veal stock. Boil five minutes. Add two eggs 
well beaten. Stir constantly until thick. Mix with veal 
mixture and cool. Shape, allowing a rounding tablespoon- 



138 lownet's cook book 

ful for each croquette. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with or without White Sauce. 

Fried Calf's Liver 

Cut three onions in pieces; saute in four tablespoons 
butter; cover with one cup white stock; add one half tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon 
lemon juice. Cook one half hour. 

Cut liver in one half inch slices; saute in four table- 
spoons butter; add sauce; cook five minutes. 

Serve; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Boiled Tongue 

Wash and clean the tongue, cover with boiling water; 
add one fourth cup each of carrot, turnip, and onion, a 
bouquet of sweet herbs, four cloves, and two pejDpercorns. 
Simmer until tongue is tender. Cool in kettle, remove 
the skin, brush with melted butter, cover with buttered 
bread crumbs after placing in dripping pan. 

Bake twenty minutes, basting often with chicken stock 

or Port wine. Cool, cut in thin slices, and garnish with 

slices of buttered toast, sprinkled with finely chopped 

pimolas. 

Broiled Pig's Feet 

Boil the feet until tender, cut in halves, brush with 
melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover 
with buttered bread crumbs. Broil over a clear fire and 
serve with Piquante Sauce. 

Veal Roll 

Remove the bone f "om a shoulder of veal, brush with 
melted butter, and stuff with sauted mushrooms or 
sweetbreads. Cover bone broken in pieces with cold 
water; add one fourth cup each of carrot and onion, a 



ENTREES 139 

bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, four cloves, and six pep- 
percorns. Add stuffed and rolled veal, and simmer until 
tender. Cover with slices of bacon ; bake in a hot oven, 
basting often. Serve with Olive Sauce. 

Marrow Bones with Tenderloin Steak 

Cut the bones four inches long; cover each end with a 
round of dough to keep in the marrow. 

Tie the bones in a cloth, cover with boiling water, and 
boil one hour. Remove cloth and paste, and serve on or 
around tenderloin steak ; or the marrow may be removed 
from bone when cooked, and spread on slices of hot but- 
tered toast. Cayenne and salt are always served with 
marrow bones. 

Deviled Mignons of Beef 

Cut tenderloin steak three fourths inch thick. Cut 
and roll in rounds, broil over clear fire five minutes. 

Mix one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon Worces- 
tershire Sauce, and two tablespoons chopped pimento. 
Spread on beef, dip in fine bread crumbs, and broil until 
crumbs are brown. Serve with Bearnaise Sauce. 

Kidneys en Brochette 

Cut some lambs' kidneys in quarter-inch slices. Season 
with salt and pepper, dip in olive oil. Arrange on a 
skewer with alternating slices of bacon. 

Dip in oil, in bread crumbs, and broil over a clear fire, 
or saute in butter. Serve with Piquante Sauce. 

Kidneys with Oysters 

Remove skin from four lambs' kidneys. Cut in two 
lengthwise. Cook two tablespoons chopped onion, one 
shallot finely chopped, four tablespoons butter, one fourth 
teaspoon salt, and a few grains cayenne, together five min- 



140 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

utes. Add one cup tomato. When hot, add one cup 
oysters. Keep hot while broiling kidneys. Arrange kid- 
neys on platter and pour sauce over them. 

Creme Frite 

1 pint milk \ teaspoon salt 

\ cup sugar 1-inch piece stick cinnamon 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 4 teaspoons butter 

5 Qgg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

few gratings lemon rind 

Mix yolks of eggs and sugar ; moisten the cornstarch 

with small amount of cold milk, scald the remainder ; add 

cornstarch mixture to scalded milk ; cook twenty minutes ; 

add Qg^ mixture, butter, salt and seasonings, cook one 

minute. Pour into shallow buttered dish. Cool ; cut in 

squares or diamonds ; dip in crumbs, Qgg and crumbs ; fry 

in deep fat. 

Calf's Heart Stuffed 

Wash heart ; fill with chicken stuffing ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; dredge with flour. Place on rack in 
dripping pan and cook in hot oven from two to three 
hours, basting while cooking, with beef stock, pork fat, 
hot water, or butter. 

Serve with Tomato Sauce or on a bed of boiled onions. 

Haricot of Ox Tails 

Cut three ox tails in four-inch pieces ; add one half cup 
carrot, one half cup onion, and four tablespoons butter. 
Cook ten minutes ; add four tablespoons flour and four 
cups water or stock. Cook one hour ; season with salt and 
pepper. Serve vegetables in the center and ox tails around 
the edge ; garnish with potato balls and parsley. 

Salmi of Game 
Cut the meat from cold cooked game. Break the 
bones and cover with cold water. Saute two tablespoons 



ENTREES 141 

onions in four tablespoons butter and brown ; add one 

tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce and four cups of the 

liquor in which the bones have been cooked. Season 

with salt and pepper, color a delicate brown with kitchen 

bouquet, add two cups cold game, simmer ten minutes. 

Serve on slices of fried bread and garnish with a potato 

border and parsley. 

Curry of Game 

Prepare the same as Salmi of Game, adding one table- 
spoon curry powder. Serve in rice border. 

Roll Croustades 

Bake bread dough in muffin pans, when cold cut off tops, 
remove soft portion leaving shell. Butter inside and out, 
and brown in the oven. Fill with any creamed mixture. 

Broiled Honeycomb Tripe 

Wash tripe and cut in pieces for serving. Cover with 
boiling water and cook until tender. Drain, wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil over a clear fire. 
Serve with maitre d'hotel butter. 

Tripe Ragoiit 

Wash one pound of tripe and cut in two-inch strips for 
serving. Saute in two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
onion, add tripe, cook ten minutes, add one cup each of 
tomato and celery cut into inch pieces, and simmer until 
all are tender. Serve, garnished with toast points. 

Lyonnaise Tripe 

Cook two tablespoons onion in two tablespoons butter. 
Add two cups cooked tripe cut in small strips ; cook ten 
minutes. Serve on buttered toast ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with butter and garnish with finely chopped 
parsley. 



142 low:n^ey's cook book 

Tripe in Batter 

Cut cooked tripe in three-inch strips. Soak ten 
minutes in olive oil. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dip in Fritter Batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Baked Sweetbreads 

Soak sweetbreads in cold water ; lard ; place on slices of 
salt pork in dripping pan ; cover with milk or stock ; cook 
until tender and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Baked Fillets of Sweetbreads 

Prepare six fillets ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Arrange on slices of bacon ; dot with 
butter ; baste with cream while baking in a hot oven. 
Serve with Bechamel Sauce. 

Braised Sweetbreads 

Arrange in the bottom of a buttered baking dish one 
fourth cup each of chopped carrot, celery, onions and salt 
pork. Place parboiled sweetbreads on top of vegetables ; 
cover with stock in tightly covered dish and bake slowly 
three quarters of an hour. Remove vegetables to serving 
dish and serve sweetbreads on top of them. 

Calf's Brains in Batter 

Parboil brains ; cut in two-inch pieces. Cover with 

French Dressing. Let them stand one hour. Drain, dip 

in Fritter Batter, hy in hot fat. Serve with Tomato 

Sauce. 

Scalloped Brains 

Parboil brains ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice. Cut in inch pieces. Arrange in layers in buttered 
baking dish, alternating with Tomato Sauce. Cover with 
buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs and serve with 
chopped pickles. 



ENTRJEES 143 

Brains Breaded 

Parboil brains and cook in muslin bag in boiling acidu- 
lated water one half hour. Drain. Cool and cut into 
four-inch pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 
Serve with Piquante or Hollandaise Sauce. 

Frogs' Legs 

Skin the frogs' legs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip 

in butter, then in flour, and fry in hot fat. Serve with 

Sauce Tartare. 

Frogs' Legs a la Bechamel 

Remove skin from legs, season with salt and pepper, 
melt four tablespoons butter, add frogs' legs and one half 
cup mushrooms, and saute. Serve on slices of buttered 
toast, with Bechamel Sauce. 

Frogs' Legs a TAllemande 

Remove skins from frogs' legs, season with salt, pepper 
and lemon juice, and cook in butter five minutes. Add 
one cup white stock, and simmer until tender. Serve on 
hot buttered toast, with Allemande Sauce. 

Oyster Crabs 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, two 
tablespoons chopped pimolas. Add one cup crabs and 
let simmer ten minutes. Serve in croustades. 

Oyster Crabs with Poached Eggs 

Cook oyster crabs in butter. Cut bread in slices, shape 
with doughnut cutter, toast, butter, and place in buttered 
ramekin dishes, fill the rings with cooked crabs, break an 
egg on top of each, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake 
ten to twelve minutes. 



144 lownet's cook book 

Liver Loaf 

Parboil four slices of calf's liver, remove skin, chop, 
and press through a sieve. To each cup of liver add 
one fourtti cup soft bread crumbs, one tablespoon butter, 
one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon paprika, few grains 
cayenne, and two eggs. Mix well, pour into a buttered 
mold, place in a pan of hot water, and bake one hour. 
Serve hot with Vinaigrette Sauce, or it may be served 

cold as a salad. 

Mock Pate de Pole Gras 

Use the cooked liver loaf mixture. Mash, add butter 
to make of consistency to spread, arrange on rounds of 
buttered toast, and garnish with yolks of hard-cooked 
eggs pressed through a ricer, and slices of pimolas. 

Croustades 

. Cut crusts from a brick loaf of bread. Scoop out cen- 
ter of loaf, leaving walls an inch thick on all sides. Brush 
with melted butter, and brown in oven ; or, omit butter 
and fry in deep fat. Brush with white of egg slightly 
beaten, and fill with any creamed mixture. Set on a bed 
of parsley and garnish with toast points. 

Small croustades may be made in the same way, by 
using thick slices of bread. 

Chicken Rissoles 

1 cup chicken forcemeat salt, pepper and onion juice 

12 pimolas, finely chopped 12 rounds of puff paste 

Mix forcemeat, chopped pimolas, salt, pepper and on- 
ion juice. Put a teaspoon of this mixture in the center of 
each puff paste round ; brush the edges with water ; fold 
edges together, making a half round ; press edges together 
firmly; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 



ENTREES 145 

Oyster Rissoles 

Prepare the same as Chicken Rissoles, and add one cup 
chopped cooked oysters. 

Sweetbread Rissoles 

Use one half rule for Chicken Rissoles. Add one cup 
sweetbreads cooked and cut in pieces, and one fourth cup 
chopped pimentoes. 

Sardine Rissoles 

Use one half rule of Chicken Rissoles. Add twelve 

boned sardines cut in pieces and two tablespoons lemon 

juice. 

Veal Rissoles 

Use rule for Chicken Forcemeat, substituting veal for 
chicken, and proceed as for Chicken Rissoles. 

Lamb Rissoles 

Use rule for Chicken Forcemeat. Add one fourth cup 
lamb and one fourth cup ham, each finely chopped, and 
proceed as with Chicken Rissoles. 

Cheese Rissoles 

I cup grated cheese \ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour cayenne 

2 Qgg whites cracker crumbs 

Beat whites until stiff, add other ingredients, put a 
teaspoon of this mixture on rounds of pastry, and proceed 
as for Chicken Rissoles. 

Mushroom Rissoles 

Place a teaspoon of creamed mushrooms in the center 
of a round of pastry; proceed as for Chicken Rissoles or 
instead of frying bake in a quick oven. 



146 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Lobster Rissoles 

Place a teaspoon of creamed lobster in the center of each 
round of pastry, and proceed as for Chicken Rissoles, 
baking in a quick oven instead of frying, if desired. 

Bouchees a la Macedoine 

Mix one fourth cup cold cooked chicken, one fourth cup 
mushrooms, and one fourth cup cheese. Add one fourth 
cup White Sauce, season with salt, paprika, and lemon 
juice. Fill Bouchees and serve garnished with parsley. 

Baked Chicken 

6 chicken legs | cup forcemeat 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 pint stock 

2 tablespoons butter | tablespoon salt 
1 tablespoon chopped onion 2 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

Melt butter ; add vegetables ; cook ten minutes. Re- 
move vegetables; add forcemeat, stock, salt and flour; 
cook until stiff; add yolks of eggs and lemon juice. 

Spread this mixture on the chicken legs. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, place in baking dish, and cook in hot 
oven until chicken is tender, basting with cream. Serve 
around slices of tomato garnished with mayonnaise. 

Chicken Supreme 

3 chicken breasts 6 slices cooked tongue 
1 can mushrooms i cup butter 

1 pint consomme 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups forcemeat 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

6 truffles 

Divide each chicken breast into four fillets, separating 
the large fillet from tiie small fillet ; brush large fillet 
with butter; spread with forcemeat; cover with small 
fillet score small fillet diagonally ; insert thin slices of 



ENTREES 147 

truffles in each gash. Cut slices of tongue half an inch 
larger than large fillet and place in baking dish with fillet 
on each piece. 

Mix Croquette Sauce, consomme, chopped mushrooms, 
and cook ten minutes, add more seasoning if required, and 
pour around cooked fillets. 

The fillets may be steamed until tender or cooked in the 
oven and basted with cream. 

VEGETABLE ENTREES 

Artichokes with HoUandaise Sauce 

Artichokes may be procured both canned and fresh. 

If canned, drain, wash in cold water, drain again, then 
let them stand in French Dressing for one half hour. 
Drain, dip in crumbs, Qgg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat, 
or dip in Fritter Batter and saute in pork fat or butter. 
Serve with HoUandaise Sauce. 

Asparagus served in Croustades 

Cut asparagus in inch pieces and boil according to rule 
for Boiled Asparagus, drain, add one cup Thick Cream 
Sauce, and serve in bread croustades. 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

Boil one cauliflower until tender. Separate flowerets 

and chop tough parts. Arrange in buttered shells, or 

ramekins with White Sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, 

cover with buttered and seasoned crumbs, and brown in a 

quick oven. ~ 

Celery au Jus 

Remove the tops from two bunches of celery, leaving 
the bunch about six inches long. Wash, trim, and scrape 
root to a point. Cook in salted boiling acidulated 



148 lowney's cook book 

water five minutes. Drain. Melt three tablespoons 
butter; add three tablespoons flour and a cup and a half 
of water in which celery was cooked. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a few drops of Worcestershire Sauce ; add 
cooked celery and simmer thirty minutes. 

Arrange celery in center of hot dish, strain sauce over 
it, and garnish with finely chopped pimento. 

Scalloped Cucumbers 

Wash, pare, and cut into cubes three large cucumbers. 

Arrange a layer in the bottom of a buttered baking 
dish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and with one tea- 
spoon finely chopped onion, and continue thus until dish 
is filled, then add one cup milk or chicken stock, cover 
with buttered and seasoned crumbs, and bake in hot oven 

until brown. 

Bechamel Cucumbers 

Pare four cucumbers, parboil four minutes, drain and 
let them stand in ice water one half hour. Cut in thin 
slices, cover with Bechamel Sauce, cook until tender, and 
serve on buttered triangles of toasted bread. Garnish 
with olive in center of each triangle and toast points. 

Banana fried in Crumbs 
Remove skin from six bananas, cut in halves length- 
wise and crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
lemon juice, dip in flour, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper, serve on folded napkin. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve with or without 
Lemon or Sherry Sauce. 

Farina Balls or Hominy Crescents 
I cup fariua or hominy 1 teaspoon salt 

■^ cup milk I teaspoon paprika 

1^ cups chicken stock few drops onion juice 

one egg 



ENTREES 149 

Mix milk and chicken stock, add farina or hominy, and 
cook in double boiler forty minutes. Add remaining in- 
gredients, cool, shape in balls or crescents, dip in crumbs, 
Qgg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Serve as an entree with a sweet sauce or as a garnish 

with game. 

Macaroni Timbales 

Boil twelve sticks of macaroni in salted water until 
tender, cut in rings. Line thickly buttered timbale molds 
with macaroni rings. Fill center with creamed macaroni, 
creamed fish, or Welsh Rarebit mixture. Cover with 
macaroni rings. Set molds in a pan of hot water and 
bake twenty minutes. Remove from molds and serve 
with Bechamel, Allemande, or Hollandaise Sauce as an 
entree ; or line a large mold and fill with creamed mush- 
rooms, creamed sweetbreads, creamed chicken, veal or 
turkey, adding several beaten eggs to give the mixture 
right consistency. 

Prepared in this way it may be served for luncheon. 

Fritter Batter 

1 cup flour \ cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

\ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt; add well-beaten eggs, 
lemon juice and milk. Beat well, strain if lumpy, and 
leave standing several hours, over night if possible. 

This recipe may be used for cooked parsnips, carrots, 
cauliflower, raw corn and nearly all fruits. 

Dip prepared vegetables or fruits in the batter, drain 
whole vegetables and fruits on a fork, fry in deep fat, 
and drain on brown paper. Mix small or chopped vege- 
tables or fruit with the batter and drop in spoonfuls into 
hot fat. 



150 lownet's cook book 

Corn Oysters 

2 cups green corn pulp 1 tablespoon butter, melted 

2 eggs \ teaspoon salt 

pepper and cayenne flour 

Cut the corn through the kernel with a sharp knife and 
remove pulp ; add remaining ingredients with enough 
flour to shape into small cakes. Saute in butter or pork 
fat or fry in deep fat. 

Green Pea Timbales 
Press one pint cooked peas through a sieve ; add four 
tablespoons milk or soup stock, few drops of onion juice, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the whites of three eggs, beaten 
until stiff. Press into buttered timbale molds, set in 
a pan of hot water, and bake in a slow oven until firm. 
Unmold, serve on hot platter. Garnish with a piece of 
parsley on the top of each timbale and Bechamel Sauce. 

Egg Plant baked in Shell 

Boil four Qgg plants twenty minutes. Cut in halves 
lengthwise. Scoop out center. Drain in cheese cloth. 
Mix one half cup bread crumbs, one quarter cup minced 
chicken, one quarter cup Qgg plant, two tablespoons but- 
ter, salt, paprika, and cayenne, and one Qgg, 

Fill Qgg plant shells with this mixture, cover with 
buttered and seasoned crumbs, and bake in a slow oven 
about one hour. 

Broiled Mushrooms 

Wash, scrub, sprinkle with salt and pepper, twelve large 
fresh mushrooms. Broil over a clear fire. Place on 
twelve rounds of bread toasted on one side. Saute in 
two tablespoons butter, one cup chopped mushrooms; sea- 
son with salt and pepper and add one fourth cup heavy 
cream. Reheat and pour over mushrooms on toast. 



ENTREES 151 

Baked Mushrooms 

Wash, scrub, sprinkle with salt and pepper, twelve 
large fresh mushrooms. Remove stems, saute in butter, 
add one cup chicken stock or cream, simmer fifteen min- 
utes. Place on rounds of bread, on a buttered platter ; 
cover and cook in oven fifteen minutes, basting once dur- 
ing cooking with melted butter. A few gratings of 
nutmeg is considered by many an improvement. 

Mushrooms with Oysters 

Wash, scrub, and remove stems of twelve large fresh 
mushrooms. Saute in butter five minutes. Place on 
rounds of buttered toast, gills upward; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dot with butter. Decorate each with 
an oyster and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake fif- 
teen minutes in a hot oven, basting every five minutes 

with hot butter. 

Deviled Mushrooms 

Mix one teaspoon mustard, few grains cayenne, one tea- 
spoon Worcestershire Sauce, and half teaspoon paprika. 
Cover Broiled Mushrooms with this mixture and serve 

on slices of toast. 

Scalloped Mushrooms 

Wash, scrub, and peel one pound of fresh mushrooms. 

Saute in butter. Arrange in layers with White Sauce in 

buttered baking dish; when filled cover with cubes of 

bread which have been dipped in butter. Brown in the 

oven and serve. 

Mushrooms with Tomatoes 

Wash, scrub, and peel one half pound of fresh mush- 
rooms. Break in small pieces and saute in butter. Wash 
and remove skins from six tomatoes. 

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers with sauted mush- 
rooms in buttered baking dish or in ramekins. Cover 



152 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

with Tomato Sauce, well seasoned with onion. When 
dish is filled sprinkle with buttered cracker crumbs and 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

Mushroom Pot Pourri 

Cut in slices one lamb's kidney. Saute in melted but- 
ter. Remove from butter, and saute twelve mushrooms, 
cleaned and cut in slices. Melt two tablespoons butter; 
add two tablespoons flour, one and one half cups tomato, 
few drops of onion juice, one and one half teaspoon Wor- 
cestershire Sauce, one half teaspoon salt, and few grains 
pepper. Cook ten minutes; add mushrooms and kidney, 
and cook until kidney is tender. 

Serve in center of hot platter, and garnish with hot 
cooked rice or with macaroni with Cream Sauce. 

Sweetbreads, chicken, or veal may be substituted for 
kidney, but make a much more expensive dish. 

Baked Onions in Ramekins 

Peel and parboil twelve medium-sized onions; drain; 
chop. Melt two tablespoons butter; add two tablespoons 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one and one quarter cups 
cream, or chicken stock, four tablespoons soft bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon finely chopped parsley. Boil five 
minutes; add one egg well beaten and the chopped onion. 
Cool slightly; add the beaten whites of two eggs; add 
more seasoning if needed and bake in buttered ramekin 
dishes twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Potato Croquettes 

Mix two cups hot mashed potato, two tablespoons but- 
ter, one teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon paprika, few 
grains of cayenne and celery salt, two teasj^oons chopped 



ENTREES * 153 

parsley, few drops onion juice. Beat well; add two Qgg 
yolks; form into croquettes; dip in flour, Qgg^ and crumbs; 
fry in deep fat; drain on brown paper and serve. 

These croquettes may be formed into the shape of a ball, 
then shaped like a cup, and filled with any creamed mix- 
ture; cover the top of cup with mashed potato. Dip in 
crumbs, Qgg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. These are 
known as Surprise Croquettes. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Cut the tops from eight red or green peppers; remove 
seeds; cover with boiling water; leave standing five min- 
utes. Fill with any of the following stuffings. Cover 
with buttered bread crumbs, arrange in baking dish, and 
bake one half hour. 

Tomato Stuffing for Peppers 

Mix one cup tomato pulp drained from juice, one half 
cup bread crumbs, and one cup stock ; add two tablespoons 
flour and two tablespoons butter which have been cooked 
together. Season with salt, cayenne, paprika and onion 
juice. 

Chicken Stuffing for Peppers 

Chicken Stuffing, prepared in the same way as Tomato 
Stuffing, substituting chicken for tomato. 

Rice or Macaroni Stuffing for Peppers 

Cook one cup rice or macaroni in chicken stock until 
tender; add one fourth cup onion finely chopped, two 
tablespoons red pepper fi^nely chopped, two tablespoons 
melted butter, four tablespoons finely chopped mushrooms. 
Season with salt and pepper. In filling add more chicken 
stock or hot water if necessary. 



154 lowney's cook book 

Rice Croquettes 

Cook one cup of rice in two cups of water or chicken 
stock in a double boiler until tender, and the liquid is 
absorbed. Season with salt, pepper and onion juice; add 
four tablespoons butter and two egg yolks. 

Cool, form in croquettes, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Rice and Tomato Croquettes 

Cook two tablesj)Oons chopped onion in two tablespoons 
butter five minutes; add one tablespoon red pepper, sprig 
parsley, four cloves, and one and one half cups tomato; 
cook five minutes. Add one cup water or chicken stock, 
pour into double boiler, add one half cup washed rice, and 
cook until rice is tender and liquid absorbed. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprika; add two egg yolks and 
four tablespoons grated cheese. 

Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. 

Sweet Rice Croquettes 

Cook one cup rice in two cups milk in double boiler, 
until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender; add one fourth 
cup sugar and one half teaspoon salt. Cool, add two egg 
yolks, shape in form of nests, dip in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat, hollow downward. Drain on 
brown paper; fill nests with cubes of jelly. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Cook one cup rice with one cup each of stock and 
tomato; when tender saute in four tablespoons butter, 
season with salt and paprika. Serve hot on buttered 
toast. 



ENTREES 155 

Tomato Croquettes 

Mix two cups tomato, four cloves, two slices onion, two 
peppercorns, one half teaspoon salt and one fourth tea- 
spoon paprika. Cook ten minutes and press through a 
sieve. Melt three tablespoons butter; add one fourth cup 
cornstarch and strained tomato mixture; boil ten minutes. 
Cool slightly, add one egg^ pour into buttered pan, chill, 
cut in squares, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve. 



CHAPTER X 
BREAD 

Yeast 

6 pared potatoes ^ cup sugar 

^ cup hops I cup salt 

2 quarts water 1 cup yeast, or 1 yeast cake 

Boil water and hops five minutes. Strain; add grated 
potatoes; boil five minutes; add sugar and salt; when luke- 
warm add yeast or yeast cake which has been dissolved 
in one fourth cup lukewarm water; let rise for six hoars; 
pour into scalded stone jug; cork tightly; keep in cool 
place. 

Milk Bread 

2 cups scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon lard i cup yeast, or i yeast cake 

1 tablespoon butter 6 cups flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Put butter, lard, sugar and salt in mixing bowl. Add 
scalded milk. Dissolve yeast cake in one fourth cup 
lukewarm water. Add to milk mixture when lukewarm. 
Add flour, knead until smooth. Cover tightly and let 
rise until double its bulk, in temperature of sixty-eight 
degrees. 

Knead; shape into loaves or biscuit; let rise in pans 
until double its bulk. Bake in hot oven: biscuit twenty 
to thirty minutes, loaves sixty minutes. This bread may 
be made without kneading by omitting one cup flour and 
beating ten minutes. 

156 



BREAD 157 

Water Bread 
Substitute water for milk in Milk Bread. 

Milk and Water Bread 

Use one cup water and one cup milk, and proceed as for 

Milk Bread. 

Graham Bread 

2 cups milk scalded I yeast cake 

1 cup molasses I cup lukewarm water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups white flour 

4 cups graham flour 

Mix milk, molasses and salt. When lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake, sifted white and graham flour. Beat 
well. 

Let rise until almost double its bulk, Vjeat again, place 

in buttered bread pans or shape in biscuit, let rise, and 

bake in an oven which is a little cooler than for white 

bread, — loaves one and one quarter hours and biscuit thirty 

minutes. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

2 cups scalded milk | yeast cake 

1 cup sugar, or \ cup lukewarm water 
^ cup molasses 1 1 teaspoons salt 

5 cups sifted entire wlieat 

Mix milk, sugar or molasses, and salt. When luke- 
warm add dissolved yeast and flour. Beat well, let rise 
until double its bulk, beat, let rise in buttered bread pans 
until double its bulk, and bake one hour in moderately 
hot oven, or bake in gem pans thirty minutes. 

Rye Bread 

2 cups scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter ^ yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar | cup lukewarm water 

3 cups flour 3 cups rye 



158 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Put butter, sugar and salt in mixing bowl ; add scalded 
milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and white 
flour. 

Let rise until of spongy consistency; add rye flour and 
knead. Let rise again, shape into loaves or rolls. Rise 
again and bake the same as Graham Bread. 

Gluten Bread 

2 cups boiling water 1 egg 

2 cups scalded milk I yeast cake 

2 teaspoons butter ^ cup warm water 

2 teaspoons salt 3 cups gluten 

Mix water, milk, salt and butter. When lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake, egg well beaten, and gluten. 
Let rise, when spongy beat well, add enough more gluten 
to shape. Knead, let rise, shape in loaves, let rise, and 
bake one hour. 

Date Bread 

Add one cup chopped dates to Graham or entire Wheat 
Bread. 

Walnut or Filbert Bread 

Add two cups chopped nuts to Graham or Entire Wheat 
Bread, just before putting into pans. 

Raised Brown Bread 

2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

^ yeast cake | teaspoon soda 

2 cups rye I cup lukewarm water 

^ cup molasses 2 cups boiling water 

Pour boiling water on corn meal. When lukewarm 
add dissolved yeast cake and remaining ingredients. 
Beat well, let it rise over night, beat and pour into a 
buttered brown-bread tin. Bake in moderate oven from 
one and one half to two hours. 



BBEAD 159 



Buns 



4 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk • I yeast cake 

^ cup sugar \ cup lukewarm water 

^ cup butter 3 eggs 

Mix salt, sugar, butter and milk. When lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake, yolks well beaten, whites well 
beaten and flour. Knead thoroughly; let rise over night ; 
knead, roll into flat cake, fold in three pieces. Knead 
and fold in this way four separate times. Add one cup 
cleaned currants. Cut off small pieces, shape into rolls, 
and brush with butter ; let rise. Bake in a moderate 
oven thirty minutes ; brush with molasses or sugar dis- 
solved in milk ; return to the oven to dry. 

Brioche 

4 cups flour 1 yeast cake 

1 teaspoon salt \ cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons sugar 8 eggs 

\ cup butter 1 cup milk 

Scald milk; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake; 
add remaining ingredients and beat well for one half 
hour. Let rise to double its bulk ; cut down ; keep in ice 
box over night; in the morning, shape. 

For Coffee Cakes, make into biscuit, then into finger 
shapes, twist ends in opposite directions, shape in crescents, 
let rise in pan. Bake in moderate oven. Brush with 
confectioners' sugar dissolved in boiling water. 

This mixture may be used for Buns. 

Parker House Rolls 

2 cups scalded milk \ cup butter melted 

I yeast cake 2 tablespoons sugar 

\ cup lukewarm water 1 teaspoon salt 

flour 



160 lowney's cook book 

Mix scalded milk when cool, with dissolved yeast cake. 
Add two cups flour ; beat thoroughly and let rise. 

When spongy add remaining ingredients and flour to 

knead. Knead; let rise; when double its bulk, shape into 

balls ; lay on buttered sheet ; cover Avith dripping pan. 

When risen to double their bulk, press with floured 

handle of spoon almost dividing the biscuit. Brush one 

half with butter ; press the two halves together ; place on 

buttered tin; let rise. Bake when light ten to fifteen 

minutes. 

Braids 

Use Parker House Roll mixture ; make in small balls ; 
roll balls into long sticks ; fasten three ends together and 
braid. Cut braids into four-inch lengths ; let rise ; bake. 
When done brush with melted butter. 

Crescents 

Shape Parker House Roll mixture into balls then into 

sticks. Roll sticks in shape of crescents, let rise, and 

bake. 

Bread Sticks 

1 cup scalded milk ^ yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

\ cup butter 1 egg white 

1 teaspoon salt 3 to 4 cups flour 

Mix butter, sugar, salt and milk. When dissolved, 
add yeast cake, white of egg well beaten, and enough flour 
to knead. Let rise to double its bulk, knead, shape, let 
rise again, and bake in hot oven. 

Swedish Rolls 

2 cups milk 2 teaspoons salt 
I yeast cake I cup sugar 

I cup lukewarm water 1 cup currants 

4 eggs 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

I cup butter flour to knead 

I cup chopped citron 



BREAD 161 

Melt butter in scalded milk ; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast, salt, eggs well beaten and flour to knead. 
Let rise ; roll into a sheet ; brush with melted butter ; 
dredge with cinnamon and sugar ; sprinkle with citron 
and currants; roll like jelly roll; cut in one half inch 
slices ; place on buttered sheet ; let rise. Bake one half 

hour. 

Raised Muffins 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup melted butter | yeast cake 

i cup sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

2 eggs 3 to 4 cups flour 

Mix milk, butter, sugar and salt ; when lukewarm, add 

dissolved yeast and enough flour to make a drop batter. 

Let rise over night. In morning add eggs, yolks and 

whites beaten separately. Place buttered muffin rings on 

buttered griddle or dripping pan ; fill rings two thirds full, 

and cook on griddle on top of stove or in dripping pan in 

oven. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

1 cup scalded milk I teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold cooked oatmeal ^ yeast cake 

^ cup sugar or \ cup lukewarm water 

I cup molasses 2 to 3 cups flour 

Mix oatmeal, scalded milk, sugar and salt. When luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake. Add flour to make a stiff 
batter ; beat five minutes. Let rise over night. Beat and 
fill buttered gem pans, one half full ; let rise; and bake in 
moderate oven one half hour. 

Rusk 

To one half the rule for Milk Bread, add two eggs well 
beaten. Shape in small balls ; place close together in 
baking pan ; let rise until very light ; brush with sugar 
dissolved in water; sprinkle with sugar. Bake. 

Rusks must be very light before being baked. 



162 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Zweibach 

Cut rusks into slices one half inch thick. Dry in oven 
until a golden brown. 

Pulled Bread 

Remove the crust from a loaf of bread and tear the 
crust in pieces. Place in oven and dry until crisp all 
through. 

Five-hour Bread 

Use any of the recipes for bread, using one yeast cake 
instead of amount of yeast given. The bread should be 
made and baked in five hours' time. 

Squash Bread 
Add one cup stewed and sifted squash to Milk Bread. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or . 4 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons lard or | to 1 cup milk or 

1 tablespoon butter and 1 half milk and half water 

tablespoon lard 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add shortening and 
chop with knife until mealy. Add milk gradually until a 
soft spongy dough. Turn on to a floured board ; toss with 
knife until whole surface is floured ; pat lightly with roll- 
ing pin until one half inch thick. Cut in rounds and bake 
immediately on buttered sheet in quick oven, about 
twelve minutes. , 

Drop Biscuit 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit, using enough 
milk to make a drop batter. 

Drop into buttered muffin pans and bake in hot oven. 



BREAD 163 

Fruit Biscuit 

Roll Baking Powder Biscuit mixture to one fourth 
inch ; brush with melted butter ; sprinkle with cinnamon 
and sugar and chopped raisins and citron. 

Roll like a jelly roll; cut in one half inch pieces ; place 
on buttered tin ; brush with melted butter ; sprinkle with 
brown sugar. Bake in hot oven. 

Egg Muffins 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

3 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, 

butter and milk. Beat well ; cut and fold in the stiffly 

beaten whites. Turn into gem pans; bake in hot oven 

ten to fifteen minutes. Three tablespoons sugar may be 

added if desired. 

Sally Lunn 

Use recipe for Egg Muffins, using three eggs instead 
of two, and bake in cake pan instead of muffin pan. 

Berry Muffins 

I cup butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1 egg 1 cup berries 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolk well beaten, flour mixed 
and sifted with dry ingredients, milk, whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff, and berries. Bake in buttered muffin 
pans or in buttered cake pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Use rule for Egg Muffins. Spread mixture one half 
inch thick on buttered pans. Lay apples cut into eighths 
in two rows on top of dough. Sprinkle with sugar ; bake 



164 lowney's cook book 

in hot oven thirty minutes. Serve with lemon sauce or 

as a tea cake. 

Corn Muffins 

1 cup corn meal I cup butter 

1 cup flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolks well beaten, flour mixed 
and sifted with corn meal, baking powder and salt, milk 
and beaten whites. Bake in buttered muffin tins twenty- 
five minutes in hot oven. 

A very good muffin may be made by using only two 
tablespoons butter and one egg. 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

1 cup entire wheat or graham flour ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar, or 1 egg 

2 tablespoons molasses 1^ cups milk 

4 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, and combine in order 

given. Bake in hot muffin pans twenty to twenty-five 

minutes. 

Rye Muffins 

1 cup rye flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup white flour \ cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 egg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents ; beat well. Bake in hot gem pans twenty to thirty 

minutes. 

Hominy and Corn Muffins 

I cup corn meal i cup hominy 

1 cup scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder i cup boiling water 

2 eggs 



BREAD 165 

Cook hominy, salt, butter and boiling water twenty 
minutes. Cool. Scald corn meal with hot milk, add 
sugar and hominy, yolks of eggs ; beat well ; add baking 
powder and beaten whites of eggs. Bake in hot buttered 
gem pans twenty to thirty minutes. 

Rice and Corn Muffins 

1 cup corn meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup cold cooked rice J cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix corn meal, salt and baking powder; add rice and 
work with fingers until well blended. Add egg well 
beaten, milk and butter. Beat well. Pour into hot but- 
tered gem pans, and bake one half hour. 

Spider Corn Cake 

I cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup flour ^ teaspoon soda 

I cup sugar 2 eggs 

I cup sour cream f cup sweet milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients twice ; add well-beaten egg 
and cream ; beat well. Butter an agate pan ; heat very hot ; 
pour in mixture ; pour milk on top. Bake thirty minutes. 

Popovers 

1 cup flour I teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

Mix all ingredients and beat five minutes. Pour into 

hissing hot buttered gem pans and bake in hot oven twenty 

minutes. 

Fried Rye Muffins 

f cup rye meal 2 eggs 

f cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup milk I teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 



166 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents ; beat well. Drop from a spoon into hot fat. Fry 

like douQfhnuts. 

Oat Muffins 

1 cup warm oatmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour \ cup milk 
^ cup sugar 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 to 4 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, salt; add oatmeal and 
work until well mixed. Add remaining ingredients. 
Beat well. Bake in hot buttered gem pans twenty 
minutes. 

SHORTCAKES 
Shortcake 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons butter 
I teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons lard 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add butter and lard 

and chop until thoroughly blended. Add milk. When 

thoroughly mixed, divide in halves ; put each half into a 

round, buttered cake tin. Flour hand and pat to fit the 

tin. Bake ten to twelve minutes in hot oven. Separate 

the upper portions from the lower portions of each cake 

with a fork — never cut with a knife. Spread with 

butter, fill with filling, and arrange in layers, with filling 

between. 

Orange Shortcake 

Peel oranges, cut in slices. Sweeten to taste and use 
for filling for shortcake. 

Peach Shortcake 

Peel, cut in slices, and sweeten three cups of peaches. 
Add two tablespoons lemon juice, spread between layers 
of shortcake. Garnish top layer with peaches and beaten 
cream. 



BREAD 167 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Hull, cut in pieces, and sweeten two boxes of straw- 
berries. Let them stand several hours. Arrange between 
layers of shortcake and garnish top with whole straw- 
berries and beaten and sweetened cream. 

Raspberry, Blackberry, and Pineapple may be made in 
a similar way. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

2 Clips flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

Mix in order given, beat well. Heat a griddle ; when 
hissing hot, grease with piece of salt pork on end of fork. 
Drop a tablespoon of batter from tip end of spoon on hot 
griddle. When full of bubbles, turn ; when cooked on 
both sides, serve on hot plate. 

If sour milk is very rich, the eggs may be omitted. 

Graham Griddle Cakes 

1 cup graham 2 teaspoons baking powder 

4 cup flour 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar 1^ cups milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Scald milk, and pour on to graham flour. When cold, 

add remaining ingredients ; beat well and cook as Griddle 

Cakes. 

Bread Griddle Cakes 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 cup flour 
2 cups scalded milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Pour milk on to bread crumbs and let stand several 
hours. Add dry ingredients, mixed and sifted, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and cook as Griddle Cakes. 



168 lowney's cook book 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

1 cup cooked rice 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk scalded 1 tablespoon sugar 

1| cups flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Pour scalded milk on to rice ; let stand over niglit. 
Add dry ingredients, eggs well beaten, and last of all, cold 
milk. Beat well and cook as Griddle Cakes. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes 

Substitute hominy for boiled rice, and cook as Rice 

Griddle Cakes. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

1^ cups flour or entire wheat 1 cup milk 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add yolks well beaten, 

milk, whites well beaten, and melted butter. Cook as 

Griddle Cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

2 cups buckwheat ^ yeast cake 

I cup corn meal or white flour ^ cup lukewarm water 
1 teaspoon salt 2 cups warm water 

I cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

Mix buckwheat, corn meal, and salt ; add dissolved yeast 
cake, molasses, and water ; beat well. Let rise over night. 
In the morning beat, add soda, beat, and fry. 

A pitcher is the most convenient dish for raising these 

cakes. 

Flannel Cakes 

1| cups Indian meal 4 tablespoons butter 

li cups flour I yeast cake dissolved in one 

1 teaspoon salt quarter cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 cups scalded milk 



BREAD 169 

Soald meal with milk ; add butter, and when lukewarm, 
add remaining ingredients ; let mixture rise over night. 
In the morning cook as Griddle Cakes. 

Waffles 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons melted butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1^ cups milk 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Sift dry ingredients ; add yolks well beaten, milk, butter 
and stiffly beaten wdiites. Beat well and cook on hot 
waffle iron. The waffle iron should be heated fifteen or 
twenty minutes before using and greased thoroughly with 
salt pork fat. 

FRITTERS 

Batter for Fruit Fritters 

1 cup flour grated rind 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

^ teaspoon salt ^ cup milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients ; add beaten yolks, 
lemon rind, and milk. Beat, cut, and fold in the beaten 
whites of eggs and use for all kinds of fruits. 

Apple Fritters 

Core and pare apples, cut in round slices. For each 
eight apples, mix one fourth cup sugar and four table- 
spoons lemon juice. Let apples stand in this mixture for 
one hour ; dip in fritter batter ; fry in hot fat ; drain on 
brown paper. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Banana Fritters 

Remove skins from four bananas. Cut each one in 
four equal parts. Sprinkle with four tablespoons sugar, 
four tablespoons lemon juice, or wine, and let stand one 



170 lowney's cook book 

hour. Dip in fritter batter; fry in deep fat; drain on 
brown paper. Serve. 

Orange, Peach, and Pear Fritters 
Are all made in the same way as Banana Fritters. 

Cumquat Fritters 

Wash cumquats; cut in halves; let stand in fritter 
batter one hour ; fry in deep fat ; drain on brown paper. 

Corn Fritters 

1 cup corn few grains cayenne 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

2 teaspoons salt i cup milk 

1 tablespoon olive oil 

Beat egg ; add remaining ingredients. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into deep fat. Fry six to eight minutes. Drain and 
serve hot. Canned corn may be used if fresh corn is not 

available. 

Cauliflower Fritters 

Separate the flowerets of cold, cooked cauliflower. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper; dip in olive oil, then in 
fritter batter; fry in deep fat. 

Celery, Parsnip, and Salsify Fritters 

Cut cold, cooked vegetables in small pieces. Prepare 
the sauce as Cauliflower Fritters. 

Tomato Fritters 

3 cups tomatoes 3 tablespoons chopped onion 

bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons chopped red pepper 

4 tablespoons butter I cup cornstarch , 
4 cloves 1 Ggg 

1 teaspoon salt 



BREAD 171 

Melt butter; add onion and pepper, cook five minutes; 
add cornstarch, tomatoes, cloves, bay leaf and salt. Cook 
until thick. Strain. Add beaten Qgg, Cool in buttered 
tin. Cut in any shape desired. Dip in crumbs, Qgg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Shell Fritters 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

1 cup water grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

^ cup sugar 5 eggs 

I cup butter 1 tablespoon flavoring 

Mix butter, fruit juice, rind and. water; boil two 
minutes. Add sugar and flour. Beat until mixture 
leaves sides of pan. Cool. Add eggs, one at a time, and 
beat five minutes between each addition. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot fat and fry ten to twelve minutes. Drain 
on brown paper, sprinkle with sugar, and serve with 
chocolate, caramel, orange, or wine sauce. 



CHAPTER XI 
SALADS 

SALAD DRESSING 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. i 

Success in making a mayonnaise dressing generally 
depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

I teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard ^ teaspoon paprika 

Mix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolks 
well, and add to seasonings; beat until mixture is thick. 
Add olive oil, drop by drop, for the first four tablespoons, 
then more rapidly until oil is used, thinning as needed 
with lemon juice and vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 

yolks of two hard-cooked I teaspoon paprika 

eggs few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1| cups olive oil 1 raw egg yolk 

Mash hard-cooked yolks; add raw yolk, salt, mustard, 
paprika and cayenne. Stir until well blended; add four 
tablespoons oil, drop by drop, then the remainder by tea- 
spoonfuls, thinning by adding lemon juice and vinegar as 
the mixture becomes too thick to handle. 

1 ''O 



SALADS 173 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 3 
Use same ingredients as jVIayonnaise Dressing No. 2, 
omitting yolk of raw egg, and using one whole egg. 

Mayonnaise Cream Dressing 

Add one half cup cream beaten until stiff to Mayonnaise 

Dressing No. 1. 

Butter Salad Dressing 

^ cup butter few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons salt | cup vinegar 

2 teaspoons mustard 3 eggs 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, cayenne and milk. 

Cook in double boiler five minutes. Pour on to the beaten 

eggs ; add vinegar, and cook in double boiler until mixture 

thickens. 

French Dressing No. i 

1| teaspoons salt | teaspoon paprika 

I teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons oil 

few grains cayenne 3 tablespoons vinegar 

Rub bowl with onion; mix salt, pepper, cayenne; add 

paprika, oil and vinegar. Stir with a piece of ice. 

French Dressing No. 2 
^ teaspoon mustard few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt | teaspoon finely minced onion 

I teaspoon paprika 6 tablespoons oil 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Mix onion, salt, mustard, paprika and cayenne. Mash 
until of a creamy consistency; add oil and vinegar alter- 
nately, beating all the time. 

French Dressing No. 3 
1 teaspoon mustard few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

I teaspoon paprika 6 tablespoons oil 

Mix the dry ingredients; add lemon juice and oil alter- 
nately, and beat until quite thick. 



174 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Cream Dressing 

3 egg yolks hard cooked * 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 

^ teaspoon cayenne 1| cups thick cream 

Mash the yolks; add salt, vinegar and mustard. Beat 
the cream until stiff; add the beaten cream, little at a time, 
to the egg mixture; when stiff, add cayenne. 

Boiled Dressing 

3 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 egg yolks 

I cup hot vinegar 

Cream butter; add seasonings and hot milk; pour on to 
the egg yolks. Cook in doable boiler until thick; add 
vinegar, strain, and serve. 

Boiled Cream Dressing 

\ cup butter 3 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon mustard ^ cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon paprika 1 cup cream 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings, egg and vinegar; cook 
until thick; add beaten cream. Beat well, chill, and serve. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

3 eggs ^ tablespoon mustard 
1 tablespoon oil IJ cups milk 

1 tablespoon salt f cup vinegar 

Beat eggs slightly; add gradually oil, salt and mustard ; 
when smooth, add vinegar, then milk. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. 

Horse-radish Cream Dressing 

4 tablespoons grated horse-radish ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons vinegar I cup cream. 



SALADS 175 

Beat cream until stiff; add remaining ingredients and 

serve. 

Horse-radish Cream Dressing No. 2 

^ cup grated horse-radish 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons vinegar | teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon AVorcestershire sauce 1 cup cream 

Beat cream until stiff. Add remaining ingredients, 
and serve. 

SALADS 
Aspic Jelly Salad 
Serve small molds of aspic jelly on crisp lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with curled celery; marinate with French 
dressing, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

Butter Bean Salad 

2 cups cold butter beans 2 hard-cooked eggs 
French dressing parsley- 
Cream dressing few drops onion juice 

Cover beans with French dressing and let stand one 

half hour. Drain, sprinkle with onion juice, mix with 

cream dressing. Arrange on serving dish and garnish 

with slices of hard-cooked eggs, cut lengthwise, and 

parsley. 

Beet Salad 

6 cooked beets French dressing 

parsley 4 hard-cooked eggs 

Cut beets in cubes; marinate with French dressing; let 
stand one hour. Chop the whites of the eggs until fine; 
press yolks through a sieve. Arrange beets on salad dish 
in a mound. Garnish base of mound with alternating 
rows of white and yolk of egg^ and parsley. 

Lima Bean Salad 
Prepare, dress, and garnish the same as Butter Bean 
Salad. 



176 lowney's cook book 

Celery Salad 

Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces, one bunch of 
celery, using the top leaves and upper part of stalks for 
garnishing. Cut the stalks in two-inch pieces and curl 
both ends. Mix the celery with mayonnaise dressing; 
let it stand in the ice chest one half hour. Garnish with 
mayonnaise, curled celery, and celery leaves. 

Cabbage Salad No. i 

Mix one cup and a half of cabbage and one cup and a 
half of celery; add one tablespoon chopped onion, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce, and one cup boiled dress- 
ing. Chill and serve. 

Cabbage Salad No. 2 

Remove the center from a heavy white cabbage, leaving 

a shell. Shred center and mix with cream dressing or 

mayonnaise. Chill, fill cabbage shell, arrange on a thick 

bed of parsley, and garnish top of shell with a border of 

parsley. 

Cauliflower Salad 

Marinate one cup cold boiled cauliflower with a French 

dressing. Drain, add boiled dressing. Chill. Serve 

on bed of water cress and sprinkle with grated Edam 

cheese. 

Cherry Salad 

Remove stones from two cups cherries. To cherries 

add one cup chopped English walnuts, one cup chopped 

celery, and three fourths cup mayonnaise. Chill, arrange 

in lettuce nests, and garnish with one whole cherry on top 

of each nest. 

Cheese Salad No. i 

Mix two cream cheeses Avith one cup walnut meat. 
Moisten with cream ; shape into balls. Chill. Marinate 



SALADS 177 

two heads of lettuce; arrange in nests; place five balls in 
each nest; sprinkle with finely chopped and dried parsley. 
Pass French dressing with this salad. 

Cheese Salad No. 2 

Mix two cream cheeses with one half cup chopped 
pimento. Season with salt and cayenne; moisten with 
cream. Line a shallow baking pan with paraffin paper; 
press cheese mixture in this pan to the depth of one inch; 
cover with paraffin paper, and put under pressure, on ice. 
When thoroughly chilled, cut in squares; arrange on 
lettuce leaves; garnish with strips of pimento, radiating 
from the center. Pass French dressing with this salad. 

Chestnut Salad No. i 

Cut two cups of boiled chestnuts in small pieces. Add 
two cups oranges, cut in small pieces, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, and one cup mayonnaise. Chill, serve on 
lettuce, and garnish with grated orange rind. 

Chestnut Salad No. 2 

Mix two cups boiled chestnuts, one cup celery, and one 
half cup sour cherries, with one cup cream dressing. 
Chill and serve on water cress. Garnish with cherries, 
walnuts and dressing. 

Chicken Salad No. i 

Mix two cups chicken meat cut in small pieces, two 
cups celery, also cut in small pieces. Marinate with 
French dressing. Chill. Arrange in salad bowl. Mask 
with mayonnaise and decorate with hard-cooked eggs, cut 
in slices, capers, and mayonnaise pressed through a 
pastry bag and tube. 



178 lowney's cook book 

Chicken Salad No. 2 
Mix one cup each, cold cooked chicken cut in pieces, 
cucumber cut in cubes, and celery cut in pieces. Marinate 
with French dressing. Chill, drain, mix with one half 
cup mayonnaise. Arrange in salad bowl; garnish with 
pimolas, yolks of eggs put through a strainer, whites of 
eggs chopped fine, mayonnaise, and curled celery. 

Chiffonade Salad 
Cut celery into one-inch pieces, and pieces into straws, 
until one cup is obtained. Remove the pulp from grape 
fruit, making one cup. Remove the skin, and slice four 
medium-sized tomatoes. Break chicory leaves into pieces 
for serving. Marinate all separately with French dressing. 
Arrange in separate mounds on a serving dish. Garnish 
each with chopped chives, green peppers cut in strips, and 
parsley. Pass French and mayonnaise dressing. 

Chicory Salad 

Separate leaves; marinate with French dressing. Serve 

crisp and cold. 

Cucumber Salad No. i 

Cut four cucumbers in strips, lengthwise, then in half- 
inch pieces. Add one cup sweetbreads cooked, and cut in 
small pieces. Mix with cream dressing, chill, and serve 

on crisp lettuce. 

Cucumber Salad No. 2 

Cut six small cucumbers in slices, not quite severing 

them. Cover with French dressing, chill, and serve one 

to each person. 

Cucumber Salad No. 3 

Mix one cup each of cucumber cut in cubes, cooked 
oysters cut in pieces, and celery cut in pieces. Add one 
cup cream dressing. Chill. Arrange on lettuce leaves in 
salad bowl. 



SALADS 179 

Crab Salad 

Marinate two cups crab meat with French dressing. 
Drain ; add one half cup mayonnaise dressing ; arrange in 
crab shells. Chill. Garnish with pimolas and mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Egg Salad 

Cut six hard-cooked eggs in slices, crosswise. Cut twelve 

radishes in crosswise slices. Marinate each, and arrange in 

layers on a bed of lettuce. Garnish with cream dressing 

and radish roses. 

Egg Salad No. 2 

Cut six eggs in halves, lengthwise ; remove yolks ; add an 

equal amount of cold cooked ham, chopped ; moisten with 

cream dressing, return to whites, and serve on a bed of water 

cress, chicory, or shredded lettuce. Pass cream dressing 

with this salad. 

Egg Salad No. 3 

Remove the yolks from six hard-cooked eggs, leaving 

the whites in rings. Mash yolks ; add an equal amount of 

cold cooked veal or lamb, cut in small pieces. Moisten 

with French dressing ; add one teaspoon chopped chives; 

shape into balls; and arrange on bed of lettuce. Garnish 

with white egg rings. 

Endive Salad 

Marinate leaves of endive with French dressing. Chill 
one hour, and serve crisp. Sprinkle with chopped chives. 

Escarole Salad 

Prepare the same as Endive Salad, and sprinkle with 
finely chopped green peppers. 

Lettuce Salad No. i 

Separate the leaves from two heavy heads of lettuce. 
Wash, drain, chill ; marinate with French dressing. Chill ; 



180 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

replace in former shape, making one head out of the two, 
having all green leaves on the outside. 

Lettuce Salad No. 2 

Remove leaves from lettuce. Wash, drain, and dry. 
Place leaves together, roll, and cut in narrow ribbons. 
Marinate with French dressing. Arrange in nests, with 
a tablespoon of mayonnaise in each nest. 

Lobster Salad No. i 

Marinate four cups lobster in French dressing. Chill, 
drain, mix with one cup mayonnaise dressing, and arrange 
on white lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise and 
pounded lobster coral. 

Lobster Salad No. 2 

Mix two cups lobster meat with four hard-cooked eggs, 
chopped fine. Marinate with French dressing. Drain ; 
add mayonnaise ; serve on lettuce ; garnish with chopped 
olives, and sprinkle with finely chopped chives. 

Lobster Salad No. 3 

Mix equal parts of cucumbers cut in cubes, lobster cut 
in pieces, tomatoes cut in pieces, with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Chill ; arrange on lettuce leaves ; garnish with alter- 
nate slices of tomatoes and cucumbers ; and mayonnaise 
dressing put through the pastry bag and tube. 

Macedoine Salad 

One cup each of string beans, green peas, carrots and 
celery. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and marinate with 
French dressing. Chill one hour. Arrange in mounds on 
salad dish, and separate mounds with cold cooked cauli- 
flower, which has been separated and marinated. 



SALADS 181 

Any combination of cold cooked vegetables may be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Onion Salad 

Peel six Bermuda onions. Slice, and let them stand one 
hour in ice water. Drain, sprinkle with sugar, and mari- 
nate with French dressing. Serve ice cold on cress. 

Potato Salad No. i 

Cut raw potatoes in balls with French vegetable cut- 
ter. Cook three cups of these balls with one sliced onion 
in boiling salted water until tender. Chill, marinate with 
French dressing, cover with boiled dressing, arrange on 
salad dish. Sprinkle with chopped chives, and garnish 
with a daisy made of hard-cooked eggs, cut lengthwise. 

Potato Salad No. 2 

Marinate one cup each of cold cooked potatoes, cut in 
dice, cold cooked turnip, also cut in dice, and cold cooked 
beets, finely chopped. Arrange in salad dish, separating 
each vegetable with small leaves of parsley. 

Rice and Vegetable Salad 

Mix one cup each of celery, carrots and rice. Mari- 
nate all separately with French dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves in shape of a mound, having rice at the 
bottom and carrots at the top. Garnish with spoonfuls 
of mayonnaise on the lettuce. 

Sardine Salad 

Remove bones from one dozen sardines; mix four hard- 
cooked eggs finely chopped, twelve pimolas finely chopped, 
and three pickles finely chopped. Marinate with a 
Frencli dressing. Serve sardines on lettuce and dot 
over them spoonfuls of the egg mixture. 



182 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Salmon Salad No. i 
Prepare the same as Lobster Salad No. 1. 

Salmon Salad No. 2 
Prepare and serve the same as Lobster Salad No. 2. 

Salmon Salad No. 3 

Mix two cups cold cooked salmon with enough mayon- 
naise dressing to make it creamy. Pack in timbale 
molds, chill; remove from molds. Serve on lettuce, and 
garnish with marinated slices of cucumber and mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Scallop Salad 

Mix two cups of cold cooked scallops cut in small 

pieces, one cup of celery cut in shreds, with mayonnaise 

dressing. Chill one hour. Serve in nests of lettuce. 

Garnish with mayonnaise, chopped olives and chopped 

chives. 

Shad Roe Salad 

Marinate two cups each of cucumber and cooked shad 
roe. Chill one hour; add one half cup mayonnaise. Ar- 
range in salad bowl ; garnish with marinated slices of 
cucumber and crisp lettuce leaves. Sprinkle the slices of 
cucumber with chopped chives. 

Shrimp Salad 

Marinate two cups of shrimps with French dressing. 
Add one half cup each of olives and pimentos. Chill 
one hour. Drain; add one half cup of mayonnaise dress- 
ing; serve on lettuce and garnish with whole shrimps. 

Spinach Salad 

Mix two cups cold, cooked, and seasoned spinach, with 
four hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped. Press into timbale 
molds; chill; remove; arrange in nests of lettuce; cover 



SALADS 183 

with French dressing. Garnish top and edge of salad 
with egg.) arranged like daisies. Pass cream or mayon- 
naise dressing with this salad. 

Sweetbread Salad 

Marinate one cup each of cold cooked sweetbreads, cel- 
ery and cucumbers. Chill one hour. Drain; mix with 
mayonnaise; serve on lettuce, and garnish with pimento. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad 

Mix two cups sweetbreads and two cups cucumbers cut 
in small pieces, with mayonnaise dressing; add one tea- 
spoon gelatine, which has been dissolved in water. Press 
in timbale molds. Chill; remove from molds, and serve 
in individual nests of lettuce. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing and chopped parsley. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Remove the skin from eight tomatoes; scoop out the in- 
side. Chill shells. Drain pulp; add equal quantity of 
celery, shrimps and cucumber, mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing. Refill shells ; serve on cress, and garnish with 

mayonnaise. 

Tomato and Nut Salad 

Remove the skin from eight tomatoes ; scoop out the in- 
side; mix the drained pulp with equal amount of chopped 
walnuts and one fourth cup chopped green peppers. Add 
mayonnaise dressing or cream dressing. Refill tomato 
shells; serve in lettuce nests, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

French Fruit Salad 

Remove the skin and seeds from one cup of white 
grapes. Cut three bananas in cubes and cover imme- 
diately with lemon juice. Remove the skin and white 



184 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

from six oranges and cut in small pieces. Mix with 
mayonnaise ; arrange in nests of white lettuce leaves, or 
serve in halves of oranges. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Martin Salad 

« 

Cook a two-pound slice of halibut with one onion cut 
in slices, four slices of carrot, two tablespoons vinegar, six 
cloves, bit of bay leaf, and four peppercorns, in water to 
cover, until tender. Chill, and marinate with French 
dressing. Cook four cups potato balls in boiling, salted 
water, with two slices onion and four cloves. When done, 
drain and cover with hot salad dressing. Marinate two 
cups each of French peas and flageolettes with a French 
dressing. Cut three tomatoes in slices, and marinate with 
French dressing. 

When all these ingredients are thoroughly chilled, rub 
the salad dish with onion ; lay slice of halibut in center ; 
garnish with cream mayonnaise ; arrange potatoes at 
either end of slice, and sprinkle with finely chopped pars- 
ley. Arrange a mound each of flageolettes and peas on 
either side of halibut ; cover halibut with slices of tomato 
overlapping each other ; garnish with the heart leaves of 
lettuce, arranged at intervals around the dish. Pass 
mayonnaise cream dressing. 



Vegetable Salad 

Mix one cup cold cooked potatoes, one cup tomato jelly 
cut in cubes, and one cup cold cooked peas. Marinate 
with French dressing ; arrange on -a salad dish ; mask with 
mayonnaise or cream dressing, and garnish with slices 
of tomato around the edge, and mounds of peas alternat- 
ing with mounds of chopped pimolas. ^ 



SALADS 185 

Vegetable Oyster or Salsify Salad 

Mix two cups cold cooked salsify, cut in small pieces, 
with a French dressing ; let it stand one hour. Rub salad 
bowl with clove of garlic. Arrange bed of cress in salad 
bowl ; cover with two tablespoons cream dressing. Cover 
with drained salsify, and cover whole with cream dress- 
ing. Garnish with radish roses. 

Waldorf Salad 

Mix one cup each of small pieces of celery, apple cut in 
balls, and English walnuts broken in small pieces. Add 
one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons orange juice, and the 
grated rind of one orange. Add one cup mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve in lettuce nests or in apple cups, made 
by scooping out the pulp. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing and pieces of the apple skin cut in fancy shapes. 

Apple Salad 

Scoop out the center of eight red apples with a vegetable 
scoop. Mix with equal parts of finely chopped celery and 
boiled dressing. Fill apple shells and serve on bed of 
curled celery. 

Grape Fruit Salad No. i 

Mix equal quantities of grape fruit and English walnut 
meats, with one half cup mayonnaise dressing. Serve in 
grape fruit cups in lettuce nests. 

Grape Fruit Salad No. 2 

Shred four green peppers, two red peppers, and two grape 
fruit. Mix with one cup chopped celery and one cup 
cream dressing. Serve on marinated water cress and 
garnish with stars of red and green peppers. 



186 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Sweet Grape Fruit Salad 

Use same ingredients as for Grape Fruit Salad, substi- 
tuting wine dressing for mayonnaise. 

Orange Salad 

Marinate eight oranges cut in slices with French dress- 
ing. Season highly with cayenne. Serve on water cress. 

Orange Salad No. 2 

Cut thin round slices of orange without removing skin ; 
arrange in layers in salad bowl. Serve on bed of water 
cress, and marinate with French dressing. 

Orange Salad No. 3 

Cut six oranges in halves, take out the pulp, and remove 
veins and sections. To the pulp add one fourth cup pow- 
dered sugar, one fourth cup chopped mint, and two table- 
spoons each of wine, lemon juice and orange juice. Serve 
in champagne glasses, and garnish with one red cherry and 

a bit of angelica. 

Pineapple Salad 

Shred one pineapple; add same amount of white grapes, 
skinned and seeded, equal amount of celery cut in small 
pieces, and one half cup castana nuts shredded finely. 
Moisten with cream mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with red cherries. 

Sweet Fruit Salad 

Use same ingredients as for pineapple salad, substituting 
a wine dressing for cream mayonnaise dressing. 



CHAPTER XII 
SANDWICHES 

The best sandwiches are made from bread which is fine 
grained and one day old. 

Always cream the butter for buttering the bread. 

Spread the loaf with butter before cutting the slice from 
the loaf. Cut each slice as thin as possible. After cutting, 
spread the slice with the sandwich mixture, and cover with 
another slice. Press the slices together firmly; cut off all 
crust and cut in rounds, triangles, or any shape desired. 

Keep sandwiches wrapped in a cheese cloth which has 
been thoroughly dampened with cold water, and pack in a 
closed box until ready to use. 

Anchovy Sandwiches 

Remove the bones from one dozen anchovies; add the 
yolks of three hard-cooked eggs, and pound to a paste. 

Mix two tablespoons Parmesan cheese, with a few grains 
of cayenne; add to anchovy mixture, with enough cream to 
make of the consistency to spread. 

Use for a filling between slices of buttered white bread. 

Caviare Sandwiches 

Mix three tablespoons lemon juice, three tablespoons 
olive oil, and one quarter pound Russian caviare. Beat 
until creamy. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Celery Sandwiches 

Mix one cup finely shredded celery, one fourth cup finely 
chopped nuts, and one fourth cup chopped olives. Moisten 

187 



188 lowney's cook book 

with mayonnaise and spread between thin slices of brown 
bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. i 

Mix one cream cheese with an equal amount of chopped 
walnuts; add a few grains of cayenne, season with salt, and 
moisten with cream. Use for a filling for graham sand- 
wiches. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. 2 

Pound one quarter pound American cheese Avith two 
tablespoons butter, a few grains cayenne, and one tea- 
spoon mustard; moisten with tarragon vinegar, and spread 
between thin slices of white bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. 3 

Mix one cream cheese with an equal amount of chopped 
pimolas; season with salt and cayenne, and moisten with 
cream or mayonnaise. 

Use for a filling for white or brown bread sandwiches. 

Chicken Sandwiches No. i 

Mix one cup chopped chicken with one fourth cup 
mayonnaise. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Chicken Sandwiches No. 2 

Mix one cup chopped chicken with one cup chopped 
almonds; moisten with cream; season with salt and pap- 
rika. Use for filling for entire Avheat bread sandwiches. 

Cucumber Sandwiches 

Slice one cucumber; marinate with French dressing. 
Sprinkle thin slices of white bread with cayenne; spread 
with marinated cucumbers, and cover with white bread 
cut in thin slices. 



SANDWICHES 189 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop two hard-cooked eggs; add olive oil and season- 
ings, until of the consistency to spread. Use for a filling 
for graham bread sandwiches. 

Lobster Salad Sandwiches 

Mix one cup chopped lobster meat with mayonnaise. 
Marinate crisp lettuce leaves. Arrange drained leaves on 
thin slices of bread ; cover with lobster, and cover lobster 
with bread; sprinkle dried lobster coral on top of each 
sandwich. Prepare just before serving; if allowed to 
stand they will be unsatisfactory. 

Favorite Sandwiches 

Cream two tablespoons butter, add one half cup grated 
American cheese, two tablespoons anchovy essence, one 
fourth teaspoon each of paprika and mustard, and one 
half cup finely chopped olives. Season with salt and 
spread between thin slices of bread. 

Club Sandwiches 

Marinate crisp lettuce leaves. Butter thin slices of 
bread; arrange on bread one lettuce leaf, on leaf a thin 
slice of tongue spread with mayonnaise, on top of this a 
slice of tomato spread with mayonnaise, and cover with a 
thin slice of buttered bread. 

Tomato and Horse-radish Sandwiches 

Mix one quarter cup mayonnaise with one quarter cup 
horse-radish. Sprinkle slices of tomato with salt. Spread 
thin slices of bread with horse-radish mixture, and put 
sliced tomato between. 



190 lojvney's cook book 

Nasturtium Sandwiches 

Spread thin slices of white bread with mayonnaise; use 
the petals of nasturtium flowers for filling, allowing some 
of the petals to come beyond the edge of the bread. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Spread buttered bread with jelly and sprinkle jelly with 
chopped nuts. Cover with buttered bread, and shape. 

Ginger Sandwiches 

Use finely chopped Canton ginger for a filling for gra- 
ham bread sandwiches. 

Orange Sandwiches 

Use orange marmalade for a filling for white or whole 
wheat bread sandwiches. 

Striped Bread Sandwiches 

Make an equal number of white bread and brown bread 
sandwiches; place sandwiches together in alternating colors. 
Wrap in damp cheese cloth and press over night. Cut in 
thin slices, then in strips. 

When cut, these sandwiches give the appearance of 

marbled bread. 

Fig Sandwiches 

Stew figs, season with wine and lemon juice, and use 
for a filling for white or graham bread sandwiches. 

Lettuce, water cress, sardines, shrimp and oysters may 
be mixed with French dressing or mayonnaise, and used 
for filling for sandwiches. 



CHAPTER XIII 
DESSERTS 

COLD DESSERTS 
Chocolate Blanc Mange No. i 

2 tablespoons gelatine 2 cups scalded milk 
I cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium 3 eggs 

Chocolate I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the gelatine in cold water ; mix sugar, chocolate 
and eggs ; add scalded milk, and cook in double boiler 
until a coating is formed on a spoon ; add soaked gela- 
tine ; when dissolved, add salt and vanilla ; pour into mold 
and chill. Serve with sugar and cream, beaten cream, or 

soft custard. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange No. 2 

I cnp Irish moss 2 squares Lowney's Premium 

3 cups cold water Chocolate 

4 cups cold milk J cup sugar 

\ cup boiling water 

Soak Irish moss in cold water twenty minutes ; drain, 
and pick over. Put milk in double boiler ; add moss, and 
cook without stirring thirty minutes. Melt chocolate ; 
add sugar and water ; boil two minutes ; add to first 
mixture. Strain, mold, chill, and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

191 



192 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Mold 

4 tablespoons cornstarch | teaspoon vanilla 

\ cup cold milk I cup blanched almonds 

2 cups scalded milk 3 ounces Lowney's Premium Choc- 
l cup sugar olate, melted with 2 table- 
^ teaspoon salt spoons sugar 

3 egg whites 

Mix cornstarch with cold milk ; add sugar, salt, scalded 
milk, and the melted chocolate, mixed with two tablespoons 
sugar. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring 
constantly. Cool slightly, cut, and fold in the well-beaten 
egg whites, keeping the mixture as fluffy as possible. 
Add vanilla. Decorate the bottom and sides of an oval 
mold with halves of almonds arranged in the shape of 
daisies. Pour in the cornstarch mixture, chill, remove 
from mold, and garnish with candied cherries and beaten 
cream, sweetened and flavored. 

A more fancy dish is obtained by making double the 
recipe and putting the chocolate into half the mixture, 
keeping the other half white. Mold the white in small 
glasses or timbale molds and arrange around the oval 
mold. Garnish each small mold with half cherry, and 
the spaces between with cream forced through the pastry 
bag. See colored illustration, Plate I, opposite. 



Chocolate Charlotte Russe 

1 pint cream whipped until ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

stiff 3 egg whites 

f cup powdered sugar | teaspoon salt 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

Chocolate or 1 tablespoon brandy 

sponge cake or macaroons 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, or mix the cocoa 
with one quarter cup hot water; add sugar, cream whipped 




CHOCOLATE MOLD 
Plate I. For Recipe see page 192 




CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 
Plate 11. For Recipe see page 192 




CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 
Plate in. For Recipe see page 193 








-r 




CHOCOLATE TRIFLE 
Plate IV. For Recipe see page 193 



DESSERTS 193 

until stiff, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, salt and flavor- 
ing. Line a mold with lady fingers or sponge cake ; fill 
with cream mixture, and chill at least one hour. This 
mixture may be molded in individual molds ; then one 
half hour will be sufficient to chill it. See colored illus- 
tration, Plate II, opposite. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 cups milk 

Chocolate 2 tablespoons granulated gela- 
l cup sugar tine 

4 egg yolks 2 cups cream 

I cup cold water | teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate; add sugar, eggs, and milk; cook in 
double boiler until mixture thickens ; soak gelatine in 
cold water ; dissolve in egg mixture, strain, cool, and when 
beginning to harden, fold in whip from two cups of cream. 
See colored illustration, Plate III, opposite. 

Chocolate Trifle 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 1| tablespoons granulated gela- 

Cbocolate tine 

f cup powdered sugar ^ cup cold water 

I cup boiling water ^ cup scalded milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla whip from 3 cups cream * 

Melt chocolate; add sugar and water; cook until smooth. 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water ; 

add chocolate mixture. Chill partially ; add vanilla, and 

whip from cream. Mold, chill, and serve, garnished with 

beaten cream and cherries. See colored illustration, Plate 

IV, opposite. 

Chocolate Cream Custard 

1 cup sugar i teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 
3 cups scalded milk Chocolate 

^ teaspoon salt 



194 lowney's cook book 

Melt sugar in clean omelet pan ; when golden brown, add 
to scalded milk; when dissolved pour on to eggs, which 
have been slightly beaten, add salt, vanilla, and chocolate 
which has been melted over hot water. 

Strain into individual molds. Set in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Chill ; 
unmold, and serve with chocolate sauce or caramel sauce. 

Cocoa Cream 

2 cups light cream I cup cocoa 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine \ inch stick cinnamon 

1 cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg yolks 1 cup heavy cream 
2 egg whites ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix cocoa, sugar, yolks of eggs ; add light cream and 
cinnamon, and cook in double boiler until mixture begins 
to thicken. Add gelatine which has been soaked in cold 
water, and stir until dissolved. 

Add salt, vanilla, and whites of eggs beaten until stiff ; 
when well blended, add heavy cream beaten until thick 
with Dover egg beater. Mold, chill; and serve with 
cream. 

Cocoa Almond Cream 

Use recipe for Cocoa Cream and add one cup blanched, 
chopped, and browned almonds just before molding. 

Cocoa Tutti-frutti Cream 

Use recipe for Cocoa Cream. Add one half cup maca- 
roons which have been dried in the oven and pounded, and 
one cup candied cherries cut in small pieces ; or one half 
dozen marshmallows and one half dozen raisins, and one 
tablespoon each of citron and candied cherries, chopped 
fine, may be added just before molding. 



DESSERTS 195 

Chestnuts with Chocolate Cream 
1 cup mashed chestnuts 1 cup heavy cream 

4 tablespoons powdered 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons maraschino 

4 tablespoons cream 4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 

3 tablespoons sherry vdne Chocolate, melted 

Chestnut Mixture 

Boil one quart French chestnuts ; remove shells, press 
through potato ricer ; add sugar, salt, cream and flavoring. 

Fill individual molds with this mixture. Chill. Remove 
from molds and serve around the chocolate cream mixture. 

Chocolate Cream Mixture 
Beat the one cup heavy cream in above recipe ; add 
powdered sugar, chocolate and flavoring. Arrange in the 
shape of a pyramid; garnish with candied cherries and 
angelica, cut in small pieces. 

Cocoanut Molds with Chocolate Sauce 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons cold milk 
I cup powdered sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons cornstarch mixed | cup shredded cocoanut 

with 3 egg whites 

Mix cornstarch with three tablespoons cold milk; add 
salt, sugar and two cups milk. Cook in double boiler 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly. Add cocoanut and 
cut and fold in the whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. 
Turn into molds, chill, and serve with chocolate sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon butter 

2 egg yolks 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 
I cup sugar Chocolate or 

\ teaspoon salt ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

Cook all ingredients in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until the spoon is coated. Serve hot or cold. 



196 lowney's cook book 

Chocolate Raspberry Meringue 

3 egg whites 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
1 cup powdered sugar Chocolate, melted 

4 tablespoons raspberry jam 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, using fork or flat 
beater ; add remaining ingredients very slowly, and beat 
constantly. 

Serve with beaten cream, flavored with wine or vanilla. 
The above mixture may be taken up in spoonfuls and 
poached in hot water, or may be used for eclairs, cream 
puffs, or cream pie, or served plain in frappe glasses. 

Chocolate Junket 
1 ounce Lowney's Premium 1 quart milk 

Chocolate 1 tablespoon wine or brandy 

3 tablespoons boiling water I cup powdered sugar 

I junket tablet 

Melt chocolate; add boiling water. Crush junket tablet ; 
dissolve in one tablespoon cold water. Scald milk ; add 
sugar, flavoring; when cool, add dissolved junket tablet 
and melted chocolate ; pour into serving cups ; let stand in 
warm place until of consistency of jelly, then chill. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Cocoa Froth 

I I tablespoons granulated I cup Lowney's Cocoa 

gelatine 1 cup sugar 

^ cup cold water grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

I cup boiling water 4 egg whites 

I teaspoon salt 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; add boiling water. Mix 
cocoa, sugar, lemon juice and rind ; add gelatine mixture ; 
strain into a cold bowl. When mixture thickens, beat 
until frothy; add well-beaten whites, and beat until mix- 
ture will stand alone. Drop spoonfuls on serving dish 
and garnish with vanilla custard. 



DESSERTS 197 

Soft Custard 
2 cups milk | cup sugar 

4 egg yolks ^ teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon vauilla 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix eggs, sugar and 
salt ; add scalded milk to them ; return to double boiler, 
and cook until mixture thickens and is of a smooth and 
creamy consistency. 

Strain into a cold dish and flavor when cold. Should the 
custard begin to curdle, set immediately into a dish of cold 
water and beat briskly with a wire whisk or egg beater. 

Soft custard may be made with whole eggs, but it is 

not so velvety. 

Arrowroot Custard 

2 cups milk 2 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons arrowroot ^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla J cup sugar 

Scald milk ; mix arrowroot and sugar ; add to scalded 
milk, and cook three minutes. Beat egg yolks slightly ; 
add salt; pour milk mixture on to eggs; return to double 
boiler ; stir constantly until thickened. 

Cool, flavor, and serve in custard cups. 

Banana Custard 

Arrange slices of bananas in bottom of serving dish, 
sprinkle with lemon juice, and cover with soft custard. 

Fruit Custard 

Prepare the same as Banana Custard, using one fruit 
or a combination of fruits. 

Strawberry Custard 

Use recipe for Soft Custard. When cold, add one cup 
of crushed and sweetened strawberries. Serve ice-cold 
and garnish with strawberry meringue. 



198 lowney's cook book 

Coffee Custard 

Use rule for Soft Custard, adding one fourth cup raw 
coffee to milk before scalding. 

Soft Caramel Custt^rd 

Use recipe for Soft Custard, adding one half cup 
caramelized sugar to milk, before scalding. 

Baked Vanilla Custard 

3 cups milk |- cup sugar 

5 eggs \ teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk and add to eggs, sugar and salt, mixed to- 
gether. Strain, add vanilla, and bake in one large buttered 
mould, or small ones, set in a pan of hot water, in a slow 
oven. Should the water boil during baking, the custard 
will be of a porous consistency. To test the custard 
thrust a silver knife through the center. When it comes 
out clean the custard is done. 

Baked Sherry Custard 

Use rule for Baked Vanilla Custard, flavoring with one 
tablespoon sherry wine. 

All other flavored custards may be made the same way, 
by substituting special flavorings. 

Baked Caramel Custard No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 egg yolks ^ cup sugar 

2 cups milk \ teaspoon salt 

Caramelize the one cup of sugar. When a delicate 
brown color, pour into a well- buttered charlotte russe 
mold or into individual cups; set away to cool. 

Scald milk ; mix eggs, one fourth cup of sugar, and salt. 



^ 



DESSERTS 199 

add milk; strain into mold on to cold caramel; add sea- 
soning and bake the same as Baked Vanilla Custard. 
Unmold and serve with caramel sauce. 

Baked Caramel Custard No. 2 

3 cups milk I teaspoon salt 

f cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 

Scald milk ; caramelize sugar and add to scalded milk. 
Beat eggs slightly, add salt, milk mixture and flavoring. 
Strain into buttered dish and bake like Baked Vanilla 
Custard. Unmold and serve with caramel sauce. 

This rule may be made with three eggs, hue will be less 
rich and will break when unmolded. 

Floating Island 

Follow rule for Soft Custard; flavor with lemon juice, 
and garnish with a meringue made of the whites of four 
eggs, four tablespoons powdered sugar, and one teaspoon 
vanilla, beaten until stiff. 

The meringue may be first poached in water in spoon- 
fuls, then dropped on top of custard ; or may be placed 
there without being poached, and teaspoons of currant 
jelly placed on top of each island. 

Strawberry Floating Island 

Make the same as Floating Island and add to the 
meringue the sweetened juice of two cups of strawberries. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

4 cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar { cup Irish moss 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the moss ; tie in cheese cloth, and cook in milk in 
double boiler thirty minutes without stirring. Remove 



200 lowh^et's cook book 

moss without pressing bag ; add other ingredients, strain 
into wet molds, chill, and serve. 

Chocolate Irish Moss Blanc Mange 
See Chocolate Blanc Mange No. 2. 

Coffee Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Use recipe for Irish Moss Blanc Mange, and flavor 
with two teaspoons coffee extract. 

Cornstarch Pudding No. i 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 3 egg whites 

i teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; scald milk, add to corn- 
starch, stir constantly, until it thickens ; cook one half 
hour, stirring occasionally. Add the beaten egg whites, 
beat well, flavor, and mold. Chill and serve. 

Cornstarch Pudding No. 2 

Follow recipe for Cornstarch Pudding No. 1, substitut- 
ing three egg yolks for three egg whites. 

Fruit Cornstarch Pudding 

Add one cup of any kind of cooked fruit to Cornstarch 
Pudding No. 1 just before molding. 

Cocoanut Cornstarch Mold 

Add one cup of shredded cocoanut to Cornstarch Pud- 
ding No. 1, and serve with custard sauce. 

Pineapple Cornstarch Mold 

Add one can pineapple to Cornstarch Pudding No. 1, 
and serve with custard sauce. 



DESSERTS 201 

Tapioca Cream 

3 tablespoons pearl tapioca | cup sugar 

2 cups milk i teaspoon salt 

2 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

J teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in milk one hour, cook in double boiler 
one half hour. Mix egg yolks, salt and sugar; add tapioca 
mixture, and cook until mixture thickens. Cool slightlv, 
add stiffly beaten whites. Cool, flavor, and serve. 

Tapioca Pudding 

Cover one cup pearl tapioca with boiling water. Cook 
in boiling water until transparent. Add three tablespoons 
sugar, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Serve cold 
with sugar and cream. 

Apple Tapioca No. i 

I cup pearl tapioca 8 apples 

4 cups boiling water J cup sugar 

^ teaspoon salt grated rind and juice of one lemon 

Cook the tapioca in boiling water until transparent; 
add one half teaspoon salt and lemon rind. 

Core and pare apples, arrange in baking dish, fill cavities 
with sugar and lemon juice, cover with tapioca, and bake 
until apples are tender, adding one teaspoon butter before 
taking from oven. 

Apple Tapioca No. 2 

Use rule for Apple Tapioca No. 1, arranging tapioca 
and apples cut in slices, in layers. 

Apple Sago 

Use rule for Apple Tapioca No. 1, substituting one half 
cup sago for tapioca. 



202 loivney's cook book 

Danish Pudding 

I cup tai)ioca 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

3 cups boiling water i cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tumbler currant jelly- 
Soak tapioca in water several hours, and cook in same 

water until transparent. Add remaining ingredients. 
Mold, chill, and serve. 

Sponge Cocoanut Pudding 

Season soft custard with two tablespoons wine. Ar- 
range in layers one dozen macaroons, one dozeil lady 
fingers and one dozen cocoanut cakes. 

Cover with soft custard and sprinkle with grated 

cocoanut. 

Apple Meringue ' 

8 apples J teaspoon salt 

3 egg yolks 2 cups milk 

^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Core apples and bake until tender. Make a custard of 
the remaining ingredients; pour over baked apples. Cover 
with meringue made of the whites of the eggs and three 
tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Chestnut Cream 

2 cups shelled chestnuts soft custard 
grated rind and juice of one lemon | cup cream 

Boil chestnuts; press through strainer; add lemon juice, 
rind and custard. Turn into frappe glasses; cover with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 

Lemon Jelly No. i 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2| cups boiling water 
I cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

^ cup lemon juice 



DESSERTS 203 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water; when 
dissolved, add sugar and lemon juice. Mold and chill. 

Lemon Jelly No. 2 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

^ cup cold water 1 cup lemon juice 

2 cups boiling water grated rind of one half lemon 

Soak the gelatine in cold water; add boiling water and 
lemon rind; let it stand ten minutes. Strain; add sugar 
and lemon juice. Mold in shallow dish. When hard, 
cut in squares and serve with boiled custard. 

Grape Fruit Jelly 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

^ cup cold water 1 cup grape fruit juice 

2 cups boiling water 1\ cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water; add boiling water, fruit 
juice, sugar, and strain. Mold, chill, and serve. 

Orange Jelly 

Make the same as Grape Fruit Jelly, substituting 
orange for grape juice. 

Macedoine of Oranges 

Use rule for Orange Jelly. Cover the bottom of a 

charlotte russe mold with jelly. Chill, decorate with 

sections of oranges, add another layer of jelly, decorate 

the sides as well as bottom, and so continue until dish is 

filled. 

Wine Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine 1 cup wine 

i cup cold water I cup lemon juice 

1 cup boiling water | cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 

Prepare as for Lemon Jelly mold. Chill and serve. 



204 lownet's cook book 

Sauterne Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine I cup lemon juice 

^ cup cold water 1^ cups sauterne 

1 cup boiling water 1| cups sugar 

green coloring 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add a small amount of col- 
oring to boiling water, pour on to soaked gelatine, add 
sugar and fruit juice. Strain, if the liquid is satisfactory 
color ; if not deep enough, add more coloring matter be- 
fore straining. Mold, chill, and serve. 

Russian Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine 2 cups boiling water 
I cup cold water | cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar i cup grape juice 

1 tablespoon wine 3 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Boil sugar and boiling 

water ten minutes. Add soaked gelatine and fruit juice. 

Strain, add egg whites, and beat with Dover egg beater 

until cold. Serve with beaten cream, sweetened and 

flavored. 

Orange Trifle 

2 tablespoons gelatine 11 cups orange juice 
\ cup cold water ^ cup lemon juice 

I cup boiling water grated rind of one orange 

1\ cups sugar whip from two and one half cups 

cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar, fruit rind, and juice, and the whip from cream. 
Decorate a melon mold with sections of oranges. Pour 
in trifle mixture. Chill, cool, remove from mold, gar- 
nish with orange jelly and beaten and sweetened cream. 

Peach Gateau 

Scoop out center of a round sponge cake ; fill with fresh 
peaches, sweetened and cut in pieces. Cover with beaten 



DESSERTS 205 

and sweetened cream, put on with a pastry bag and tube. 
Garnish with small pieces of peaches. 

Syllabub 

2 cups cream 1 cup sherry 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar grated rind of one lemon 

Whip cream ; mix other ingredients, add whip, and 

serve in frappe glasses. Garnish with small bits of red 

cherries. 

Strawberry Syllabub 

2 cups cream 1 cup sugar 

1^ cups strawberry juice | cup lemon juice 

whites of two eggs 

Mix sugar and fruit juice. Add beaten whites and 
cream. Continue beating until stiff. Arrange sliced 
strawberries in the bottom of frappe glasses, add cream 
mixture, and garnish with slices of strawberries on top. 

Prune Jelly 

1 cup prunes 2 tablespoons sherry 

1 box gelatine 2 cups boiling water 
^ cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ cup walnuts 

Cook prunes and remove stones. Soak gelatine in cold 
water. Add boiling water. Strain; add lemon juice, 
sherry and sugar. Pour into a mold. When mixture 
begins to harden, add prunes cut in pieces and walnuts 
broken in pieces. Stir occasionally, to keep fruit from 
settling. Mold, chill, and serve with soft custard. 

Fruit Jelly Macedoine 

Use wine, orange, or lemon jelly. Pour jelly in mold 
to depth of one half inch. Decorate bottom of mold 
with a slice of banana, and radiating from it halves of 



206 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

blanched almonds. Cover with jelly, and arrange in alter- 
nating layers, English walnuts, candied fruits, figs and 
jelly. Chill ; serve and garnish with whipped cream. 

Bavarian Cream 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2 cups cream 

\ cup cold water ^ cup sugar 

^ cup hot cream 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the gelatine in cold water : dissolve in hot cream ; 
add sugar. Add the whip from one pint of cream when 
the mixture begins to thicken. Cut and fold in this cream ; 
do not stir. When nearly stiff enough to drop, mold. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

Use rule for Bavarian Cream, substituting one fourth 
cup strong boiling coffee for one fourth cup cream. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 pint fresh strawberry juice 

I cup cold water 24 whole strawberries 

I cup boiling water whip from one pint of cream 

I cup sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water. 
Add fruit juice and sugar ; stir until mixture begins to 
thicken. Cut and fold in the whip from the cream. 

Line a mold with halves of strawberries ; pour in cream 
mixture. Chill ; garnish with beaten cream and straw- 
berries, and serve. 

Raspberry Bavarian 

Prepare the same as Strawberry Bavarian, adding two 
tablespoons lemon juice, and substituting raspberry juice 
for strawberry juice. 

Pineapple Bavarian 

Prepare the same as Strawberry Bavarian, and substitute 
one can grated pineapple for strawberry juice. 



DESSEBTS 207 

Peach or Apricot Bavarian 

Use rule for Strawberry Bavarian, using one pint 
crushed peaches or apricots for strawberry juice, and gar> 
nish with halves of peaches or apricots. 

Chocolate Bavarian 

For Chocolate Bavarian see special recipes for Lowney's 
Chocolate. 

Banana Bavarian 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 4 bananas 

^ cup cold water 2 tablespoons orange juice 

1 cup boiling water i cup sugar 

whip from two cups cream 

Mash the bananas. Soak gelatine in cold water; dissolve 
in boiling water; add sugar, banana pulp and orange juice. 
When mixture begins to thicken, cut and fold in the 
whip from the cream. Mold, chill, and garnish with 
beaten cream, bananas and cherries. 

Ginger Bavarian 

Use rule for Banana Bavarian, substituting one cup 
preserved ginger ; and adding one quarter cup sherry 
wine. 

Italian Cream 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 

3 egg yolks few grains salt 

\ cup sugar ^ cup cold water 

3 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; scald milk; mix yolks and 
sugar, add milk and salt; cook until mixture begins to 
thicken; add soaked gelatine, chill, and as mixture thickens 
add the beaten whites of eggs. Mold, chill, and serve. 
Any flavorings used for Bavarians may be used for Italian 
creams. 



208 lownet's cook book 

Almond Italian Cream 

To Italian Cream add one cup almonds which have 

been blanched, chopped, and browned and two tablespoons 

lemon juice. 

Caramel Italian Cream 

To Italian Cream add one cup caramelized sugar to cus- 
tard before adding gelatine. 

Maple Italian Cream 

Add one cup maple sugar to hot custard in Italian 
Cream before adding gelatine. 

Bavarian Macedoine 

Line a mold with strawberry Bavarian, one inch thick, 
set another mold on top of this Bavarian and pour in straw- 
berry Bavarian to the top of the mold. Chill. When 
hardened, remove second mold and fill Avith alternate 
layers beaten cream, chopped nuts and chopped fruit. 

Ribbon Bavarian 

Use rule for Plain Bavarian, and divide into three parts 
before adding the cream. 

Into one third stir one quarter cup strawberry juice 
and color pink; into another third add two tablespoons 
chopped almonds and color green; flavor the other third 
with vanilla. 

Add one third of the whipped cream to each of these 
thirds and arrange in laj^ers in charlotte russe molds. 
Chill and garnish with beaten cream, strawberries, and 
nuts. 

One must work quickly to keep the gelatine mixture 
from hardening. Should it harden before it can be used, 
set the dish containing the gelatine mixture into a pan of 
hot water and stir until liquefied. 



BESSEBTS 209 

Rice Bavarian 

3 cups milk 1 tablespoon gelatine 

^ cup rice ^ cup cold water 

i teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sherry wine 

i cup sugar 1 cup cream 

\ cup boiling water 

Cook rice in milk in double boiler until rice is tender, 

and milk is absorbed. Add sugar, salt, and gelatine 

which has been soaked in cold water and dissolved in 

hot water. Add flavoring, cool slightly, and add whipped 

cream. Mold, chill, and garnish with wine or orange 

jelly cut in cubes. 

Diplomatic Pudding 

Line a mold with lemon jelly to the depth of one inch. 
Place a smaller mold on top of jelly and surround smaller 
mold with lemon jelly. When jelly is hard, remove, 
mold and fill with any flavored Bavarian cream. 

Banana Cantaloupe 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup scalded cream 
\ cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

3 egg whites 6 bananas 

I cup lemon juice whip from 2 cups cream 

lady fingers 

Soak gelatine in cold water; dissolve in hot cream. Add 
sugar, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, mashed bananas 
and lemon juice. Chill; as it begins to thicken, fold in 
the whipped cream. Line a melon mold with lady An- 
gers, add cream mixture, chill, and serve. Garnish with 
cream beaten and flavored, cherries and angelica. 

Date Whip 

1 cup stoned and chopped dates 3 egg whites 

1 cup boiling water i cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice i teaspoon salt 



210 lowney's cook book 

Cook dates in boiling water until tender; press through 

a sieve. Beat whites until stiff; add sugar, lemon juice 

and salt. Carefully fold in the date pulp, pile lightly 

on a buttered baking dish, and bake thirty minutes in a 

moderate oven. Serve with soft custard or with whipped 

cream. 

Prune Souflae 

Substitute two cups prunes, for dates, in Date Whip, 
and follow rule for Date Whip. 

Strawberry Whip 

2 cups strawberries 2 egg whites 

1 cup powdered sugar \ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Crush the berries; add sugar and lemon juice. Beat 
eggs until stiff, and continue beating while adding straw- 
berry mixture. Serve with soft custard or beaten cream. 

Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. i 

2 cups cream 3 egg whites 

I cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat cream until stiff; add sugar, flavoring, and Qgg 

whites, beaten until stiff. Line a mold with slices of 

sponge cake or lady fingers; fill with mixture. Chill and 

serve. 

Caramel Charlotte Russe 

Use rule for Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1, substituting 
one cup caramelized sugar for the powdered sugar. 

French Charlotte Russe 

Add to Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1 one dozen marsh- 
mallows finely chopped, one dozen almonds blanched and 
chopped, six walnuts chopped, two tablespoons candied 
cherries finely chopped, and one tablespoon brandy. 



DESSERTS 211 

Strawberry Charlotte Russe 

Crush two cups strawberries, add one cup sugar, and 
add to Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1. 



Apple Rice 

8 apples 1 cup hot cooked rice 

i glass crab apple jelly 2 cups milk 

^ cup seeded raisins 3 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Pare and core the apples. Arrange in baking dish, fill 
with currant jelly, and surround with rice, mixed with hot 
milk, egg yolks, butter, raisins and flavoring. Cook in 
oven until apples are tender. Remove from oven and 
cover with a meringue. Serve hot or cold. 

Imperial Chocolate Pudding 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
2 cups milk Chocolate 

\ cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

I teaspoon salt whites of 2 eggs 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Mix constarch, sugar, salt and milk ; melt chocolate; 
add water, cornstarch mixture, and cook in double boiler 
ten minutes ; cool; add well-beaten egg whites, flavoring, 
and mold. Chill and serve with sugar and cream. 

Junket 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons wine, or 

1 junket tablet 1 teaspoon vaniUa 

I cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

Dissolve junket tablet in cold water. Heat the milk 
until lukewarm; add junket tablet, sugar, and flavoring; 
fill frappe glasses, let stand in warm room until set; then 
chill and serve. 



212 LOIVNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Roman Pudding 

1 tablespoon gelatine 3 cups cream 

1 tablespoon cold water ^ cup Madeira wine 

I cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 can preserved figs 

1 cup beaten cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water; 
add wine and sugar. Stir until mixture thickens. Care- 
fully fold in the whip from cream. Mold, chill, and serve 
with figs and beaten cream. 

Snow Pudding 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons cold water ^ cup lemon juice 

I cup boiling water 3 egg whites 

Soak the gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling 

water ; add sugar and lemon juice. Stir till mixture 

thickens, then add the beaten whites of eggs and continue 

beating until stiff enough to drop. Mold, chill, and serve 

with custard sauce. 

Compote of Figs 

1 pound pulled figs 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups water 1 cup cream 

J cup sugar \ cup powdered sugar 

Soak figs in water, then press into shape. Mix sugar 
and water, boil until syrupy, add lemon juice. Arrange figs 
on serving dish ; cover with syrup ; garnish with sweet- 
ened cream, beaten until stiff, pressed through pastry bag 

and tube. 

Pineapple Pudding 

pulp from one pineapple 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar | teaspoon salt 

Mix sugar, eggs and pineapple; bake in slow oven until 
set. Unmold, garnish Avith beaten cream, the leaves of 
the pineapple and cherries. 



DESSERTS 213 

HOT DESSERTS 

Duchess Pudding 

1 cup scalded milk I cup cocoa 
f cup soft bread crumbs i cup sugar 

i cup grated cocoanut 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

\ teaspoon salt 

Soak bread in scalded milk until soft. Add cocoanut, 
sugar, cocoa, lemon juice and salt ; beat well; add 
yolks of eggs slightly beaten, and cut and fold in the well- 
beaten whites. Turn into well-buttered pudding dish and 
bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Baked Chocolate Souflae 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons hot water 

2 tablespoons flour 3 squares Lowney's Premium 

f cup milk Chocolate 

1 cup sugar yolks of 3 egg 

1 teaspoon salt whites of 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter ; add flour ; when smooth, add milk ; cook 
five minutes ; add sugar and salt. Melt chocolate ; add 
hot water and flour mixture ; cook five minutes ; cool ; add 
yolks of eggs beaten well ; cut and fold in the well-beaten 
whites. Flavor ; bake in a buttered baking dish in a mod- 
erate oven twenty to thirty minutes. Serve immediately 
with sugar and cream, or beaten cream, or butter and 

sugar sauce. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

f cup bread crumbs 2 eggs 

2 cups scalded milk i teaspoon salt 

3 squares Lowney's Premium | teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate melted i cup cold milk 

f cup sugar 

Mix all ingredients in the order given. Pour into a 
buttered baking dish, set into a pan of hot water, and bake 



214 lownet's cook book 

one hour in a moderate oven ; stir twice during the bak- 
ing to keep chocolate from rising to the top. 

Chocolate Raisin Pudding 

1^ cups fine cracker crumbs 1 egg 
2\ cups milk 1 cup seeded raisins 

I cup molasses \ cup cocoa, or 

\ teaspoon salt 2 squares Lowney's Premium 

Chocolate melted 

Soak cracker crumbs in milk, add remaining ingredi- 
ents, turn into a buttered pudding dish, and steam four 
hours. Serve either hot or cold with cream sauce. 

Chocolate Balls 

I cup butter 2\ cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
\ cup milk 4 egg whites 

2 squares Lowney's Premium \ teaspoon salt 

Chocolate grated 

Cream butter ; add chocolate and sugar, flour in which 
baking powder and salt have been sifted, and milk ; beat 
well, cut and fold in beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
individual molds or popover cups and steam forty 
minutes. Serve with chocolate sauce. 

Chocolate Nut Pudding 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

2 cups scalded milk | cup sugar 

1 cup chopped nuts juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

I teaspoon salt 2 egg whites beaten until stiff 

Mix first seven ingredients ; when well blended, cut and 
fold in the whites of eggs ; pour into individual molds, 
and bake twenty to thirty minutes. Serve hot with 
cream or fruit sauce. See colored illustration, Plate V, 
opposite. 



p-w^ I 








'sdSK 




WL'l 


f^ 






hjtj^- ' 











*^^ 



y 



CHOCOLATE NUT PUDDING 
Plate V. For Recipe see page 214 




CHOCOLATE AND RICE PUDDING 
Plate VI. For Recipe see page 215 




COCOA FRUIT PUDDING 
Plate VII. For Recipe see page 215 




CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 
Plate VIII. For Recipe see page 240 



DESSERTS 215 

Chocolate and Rice Pudding 

4 tablespoons rice ^ cup sugar 

2 cups milk ^ cup Lowney's Always Ready 

1 teaspoon salt Chocolate Powder, or 

2 tablespoons butter 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
1 teaspoon vanilla Chocolate 

I cup beaten cream | cup seeded raisins 

2 egg whites 

Soak rice in milk one half hour ; add salt and cook in 
double boiler until rice is tender. Mix butter, sugar, 
chocolate, raisins and vanilla; add cooked rice, cream 
and beaten whites. Fill buttered baking dish, cover with 
a meringue, brown in a moderate oven, and serve either 
hot or cold. 

Milk may be substituted for the beaten cream if a less 

rich pudding is desired. See colored illustration, Plate 

VI, opposite. 

Cocoa Fruit Pudding 

I cup Lowney's Cocoa 1 cup brown sugar 

I cup beef suet 2 eggs 

1 cup figs finely chopped ^ cup milk 

2^ cups soft bread crumbs | teaspoon salt 

Chop suet, figs and bread crumbs in meat chopper. 
Add remaining ingredients, and steam three hours. Serve 
with hot chocolate sauce, or cream sweetened and flavored. 
See colored illustration, Plate VII, opposite. 

Steamed Chocolate Nut Pudding 

2 tablespoons sugar 5 egg yolks 
^ cup flour I cup sugar 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 1 cup finely chopped nuts 

Chocolate grated 5 egg whites 

^ cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

\ teaspoon salt 

Mix first five ingredients and boil two minutes. Beat 
yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add sugar, 



216 lowney's cook book 

beat five minutes ; add nuts, then add to cliocolate mix- 
ture. When well blended, cut and fold in the whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into buttered mold and 
steam one and one half hours. Remove from mold and 
serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

2 tablespoons butter I cup milk 

^ cup flour 5 egg yolks 

1 cup Lowney's Always Ready f cup sugar 

Chocolate Powder | cup finely chopped almonds 

^ teaspoon salt 5 egg whites 

Melt butter ; add flour, chocolate, salt and milk ; cook 
five minutes. Beat egg yolks until lemon-colored and 
thick ; add sugar and almonds ; when well blended, add 
chocolate mixture, and cut and fold in the beaten whites. 
Pour into a buttered mold, and steam one hour. Serve 
immediately with sugar and cream. 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons lard | cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter \ cup water 

^ teaspoon baking powder 8 apples cored 

cinnamon and nutmeg 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt ; work in lard and 
butter ; when well mixed, add water. Cut paste in eight 
rounds, place apple in center of round, fill cavity with 
sugar and flavoring. Draw paste around apple ; place in 
baking pan rough side down. Bake forty-five minutes. 
Serve with lemon or molasses sauce. 

Apple Sponge 

I cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 5 sliced apples 

^ teaspoon salt 



DESSERTS 217 

Beat eggs; add sugar, flour in which baking powder has 
been sifted, and milk. Beat well; add apples; pour into 
buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven one 
hour. Serve with Italian sauce. 

Baked Apples 

Remove the core from eight apples of uniform size. 
Place in baking dish, add one fourth cup water, and baste 
frequently, during baking, with sugar and water. 

Baked Apples No. 2 

Core eight apples, arrange in baking dish, fill cavities 
with butter and sugar, bake until tender, basting with 
sugar and water. When done, arrange in serving dish; 
sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

Apple Flame 

8 apples raspberry jam 

2 cups sugar rum or brandy 

1 cup water 1 cup beaten cream 

Pare and core the apples; boil sugar and water together 
ten minutes; arrange apples in buttered baking dish two 
inches apart; add syrup; cover and bake until apples are 
tender. Be careful to preserve shape of apples. 

Remove from dish; boil syrup until thick; fill cavities 
with jam, pour syrup around thenij and just before send- 
ing to table pour over them brandy or rum. Light and 

serve. 

Apple Flamingo 

8 apples (red) 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons orange juice 
1 cup water grated rind one half lemon 
1 cup cream grated rind one half orange 

Wipe apples; arrange in baking dish; add sugar and 



218 lowney's cook book 

water, and cook until tender, turning so that all sides 
ma}^ be evenly cooked. Be sure and preserve the shape. 

Remove skin in a way to leave bright coloring on the 
apple. 

Boil syrup until thick, add fruit juice and rind, pour 
around apples, and garnish with beaten cream. 

Apple SoufEle 

3 cups quartered apples 3 egg yolks 
2 tablespoons butter 6 egg whites 

I cup sugar nutmeg and lemon juice 

Steam apples; add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs and 
flavoring. Cool, cut and fold in beaten whites, turn into 
buttered pudding dish, and bake forty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Scalloped Apple 

1 cup sugar 1| cup bread crumbs from center 

1 teaspoon cinnamon of loaf 

2 tablespoons lemon 4 cups sliced apples 
grated rind of one lemon ^ teaspoon salt 

i cup butter I cup water 

Arrange crumbs and apples in layers, in a buttered 
pudding dish, having crumbs on the top layer. Sprinkle 
each layer with sugar and cinnamon and dot with butter ; 
add lemon juice, lemon rind and water, just before 
sprinkling on the last layer. Bake in slow oven one hour. 

Apple Dumpling 

4 cups sliced apples | teaspoon salt 
^ cup water ^ cup sugar 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder few gratings lemon rind 

Mix and sift dry ingredients except sugar. Add milk. 
Fill a buttered pudding dish with apples, add sugar and 



DESSERTS 219 

lemon rind, cover with flour mixture, and steam one and 
one half hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Apple Nests 

8 apples 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon salt 3 egg w hites 

Arrange cored and pared apples in a buttered baking 
dish. Mix sugar, flour, milk ; add yolks of eggs ; when 
well blended, the well-beaten whites. Pour this mixture 
over apples and bake in a moderate oven until apples are 

tender. 

Brown Betty- 
Prepare the same as Scalloped Apple, adding one half 
teaspoon cloves, one half teaspoon allspice, one half cup 
molasses, and one cup raisins seeded and chopped. Bake 
in slow oven one hour. 

Apple Charlotte 

8 slices of bread " 1 cup sugar 

^ cup butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

6 apples I cup chopped almonds 

1 tablespoon butter 

Dip bread in melted butter ; butter mold ; cut bread 
into strips an inch wide and the height of the mold. 
Line bottom and sides of mold with bread. Pare and 
cut up apples ; add sugar, water and lemon juice ; cook 
until apples are soft. Add chopped almonds, one table- 
spoon butter ; pour into lined mold, cover with slices of 
buttered bread, and bake thirty minutes. Serve with 
lemon sauce or hard sauce. 

Apples on a Bed of Rice 

1 cup cooked rice 1 cup water 

8 apples 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups sugar strawberry jam 



220 lowney's cook book 

Press rice into charlotte russe mold; reheat in 
steamer. Pare and core apples ; cook in syrup made of 
sugar and water until tender. Remove apples ; boil syrup 
until thick ; unmold rice ; arrange apples around rice, fill 
cavities in apples with jam, and pour sauce around them. 

Oranges on a Bed of Rice 

Prepare in the same way as Apples on a Bed of Rice, 
except quarter oranges and omit jam. 

Apple Batter Pudding 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 cups quartered apples 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons butter I cup sugar 

Mix sugar, salt, flour, eggs and milk. When smooth, 

add apples ; pour into buttered baking dish, and bake 

slowly in a moderate oven one hour. Serve immediately 

with wine sauce. 

Peach Batter Pudding 

Follow the rule for making Apple Batter Pudding, sub- 
stituting peaches for the apples. 

College Pudding 

1 cup butter ^ cup strained apple sauce 
11 cups sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

4 eggs rind and juice of one lemon 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a pudding dish 
with plain paste, fill with apple mixture, and bake forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with butter and 

sugar. 

Apple Indian 

2 cups quartered apples I cup Indian meal 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons butter 

^ cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups milk cinnamon and nutmeg 



DESSERTS 221 

Scald milk ; pour on to Indian meal ; add remaining in- 
gredients ; pour into buttered baking dish, and cook in 
slow oven four hours, keeping dish covered until the last 
hour, stirring occasionally. 



Stewed Apples 
Pare and core eight apples. Arrange in baking dish; 
fill cavities with apple jelly and chopped raisins. Cook 
until tender, basting with hot water, sugar and lemon 
juice. Ten minutes before removing from oven, spear all 
over with slivers of blanched almonds. 



Vanilla Souffle 

^ cup butter 4 eggs 

I cup flour I cup sugar 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoou vanilla 

I teaspoon salt 

Make a white sauce with flour, butter, salt and milk. 
Beat 3^olks of eggs ; add sugar, white sauce. Cut and fold 
in the well-beaten whites. Bake in individual ramekin 
dishes in a moderate oven, twenty to thirty minutes. 
Serve immediately with orange or sherry sauce. 



Orange Souffle 

3 egg yolks rind of one half orange 

3 egg whites 1 tablespoon orange juice 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar f tablespoon lemon juice 

^ teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick. Add sugar, 
fruit juice and rind. Carefully fold in beaten whites. 
Pour into buttered dish, and bake fifteen to twenty min- 
utes in moderate oven. Serve with strawberry sauce. 



222 lowney's cook book 

Bread Pudding 

2 cups bread crumbs i cup sugar 

4 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

cinnamon and nutmeg 

Soak bread in milk ; add beaten eggs and remaining in- 
gredients. Bake one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Bread Queen 
Use rule for Bread Pudding, using whites of four eggs 
for meringue, and the yolks in the pudding instead of the 
three eggs. Before spreading on meringue, cover pudding 
with a layer of jam. Brown meringue slightly in the 
oven, and serve pudding hot or cold with cream. 

Cracker Queen 
Substitute one and one half cups cracker crumbs for 
bread crumbs in Bread Pudding, and add one cup seeded 
raisins cut in small pieces. Bake the same as Bread Pud- 
ding. 

Buttered Bread Pudding 

Butter twelve slices of bread; arrange in baking dish. 

Cover with four cups milk, four slightly beaten eggs, 

three fourths cup sugar, one half teaspoon salt, and the 

-grated rind and juice of one lemon. Bake one and one 

half hours in slow oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cocoanut Pudding 
Use rule for Buttered Bread Pudding, sprinkle each 
bread layer with shredded cocoanut and chopped and 
seeded raisins. Serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Blueberry Dumpling 

4 cups blueberries 2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter | cup milk 



DESSERTS 223 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt ; add butter, mix un- 
til mealy; add milk. Put sugar, berries and vinegar in 
bottom of buttered baking dish. Cover with flour mix- 
ture and steam forty-five minutes. Serve in dish in which 

it is cooked. 

Raspberry Dumpling 

Prepare in the same way as Steamed Blueberry Dump- 
ling, using four cups of raspberries instead of blueberries. 

Blackberry Dumpling 
Substitute blackberries for blueberries, and proceed as 
for Steamed Blueberry Dumpling. 

Cherry Duff 

Substitute two quarts cherries, in rule for making Blue- 
berry Dumpling. 

Peach Duff 

Use rule for Blueberry Dumpling, substituting one quart 
peaches for blueberries. 

Fruit Snowballs 

Use recipe for making Snow Puffs. When done, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and garnish with cherry sauce. 

Steamed Rice Pudding 

one cup rice 1|^ teaspoons salt 

8 cups cold water 

Cook in steamer until water is absorbed and each kernel 
is separated. The time depends upon the age of the rice. 

Caramel Rice Pudding 

1 cup rice 2 eggs 

6 cups milk 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt grated rind of one half orange 

Cook rice in milk, in double boiler, two hours ; then add 
salt, eggs slightly beaten, and orange rind. Caramelize 



224 lowney's cook book 

the sugar. When a golden brown liquid, pour into a hot 
pudding mold, coating the whole inner surface. Add rice 
mixture, cover and cook in oven in a pan of water twenty 
minutes. Remove from oven, let stand five minutes, turn 
on serving dish, and serve with soft custard. 

Snow Puffs 

1 cup butter 2^ cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup milk 4 egg whites 

J teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add sugar, flour, baking powder and salt 
alternately with milk. Beat well; add the stiffly beaten 
whites ; steam forty-five minutes in buttered popover 
cups. Serve with strawberry sauce. 

Blueberry Puffs 
Use rule for Snow Puffs and serve surrounded by a 
sauce made by cooking two cups blueberries and one cup 
sugar together twenty minutes. 

Cottage Pudding 
1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar together; add yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick, flour in which baking powder and salt 
have been sifted, alternately with milk ; beat well and add 
the well-beaten whites. Pour into a well-buttered pud- 
ding dish. Bake forty -five minutes. Serve with lemon, 
vanilla, or wine sauce. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding 
Prepare the same as Cottage Pudding. Pour into but- 
tered mold ; steam one and one half hours. Serve with 
lemon or strawberry sauce. 



DESSEBTS 225 

Indian Pudding, Steamed 

1 cup corn meal i cup chopped suet 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

few grains ginger 

Mix soda with sour milk, add other ingredients, pour 

into buttered mold, and steam four hours. Serve with 

molasses sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

6 cups milk 1 tablespoon butter 

I cup corn meal i teaspoon salt 

^ cup molasses few grains ginger 

Scald one pint of milk with corn meal and cook twenty 
minutes; add remaining milk and rest of ingredients. 
Pour into deep earthen dish and bake, set in a pan of hot 
water, in a slow oven, four hoars. The afternoon fire is 
the one best suited for cooking this pudding. 

Indian Rice Pudding 

4 cups milk 2 tablespoons butter 

I cup rice | teaspoon ginger 

I cup molasses \ teaspoon salt 

Mix ingredients in the order given, pour into deep bak- 
ing dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake two hours. 
Stir once during cooking. 

Indian Rice with Apples 

To Indian Rice Pudding, add two cups pared and quar- 
tered apples. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 

1 cup pearl tapioca 1 cup molasses 

6 cups scalded milk | cup butter 

I cup Indian meal 2 teaspoons salt 

2 cups cold milk 

Soak tapioca in cold water over night. Cook Indian 
meal and scalded milk in double boiler twenty minutes; 



226 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

add tapioca, molasses, butter, salt. Pour into buttered 
baking dish; cook two hours in slow oven. 

At the end of the first hour, add the cold milk. Serve 
hot with butter or cream. 

Rice Pudding 

\ cup rice 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt \ cup seeded raisins 
i teaspoon nutmeg 4 cups hot milk 

2 cups cold milk 

Mix first six ingredients; pour into buttered pudding 
dish; cook in a slow oven two hours, stirring occasionally 
the first hour. At the end of two hours add the cold milk 
and cook half an hour longer. 

Serve with sugar and cream. 

Christmas Plum Pudding 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups chopped suet 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup chopped raisins 6 eggs 

1 cup chopx">ed citron i cup brandy 

1 cup cleaned carrants \ tablespoon lemon rind 

Mix ingredients; pour into buttered mold; cover and 

steam four hours; bake in oven one half hour. Serve with 

Wine Sauce. 

Graham Plum Pudding 

1| cups graham flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses | teaspoon cloves 

i cup milk 1 egg 

1 cup seeded raisins \ teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons butter 

Beat Qg^\ add liquids, flour in which soda has been 
sifted, fruit, spices and melted butter. Pour into buttered 
baking powder tins and steam four hours. Serve with 
Brown Sugar Sauce. 



DESSERTS 227 

Steamed Fig Pudding 

1 cup chopped figs 2^ cups soft bread crumbs 

1 cup chopped suet \ cup milk 

3 eggs 1 cup brown sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cover bread crumbs with milk. Chop figs and suet to- 
gether, add other ingredients, pour in buttered melon 
mold and steam from three and half to four hours. 
Serve with Stirling Sauce. 

Date Pudding 

Use rule for Fig Pudding, adding one cup each chopped 
dates and shredded almonds, and omit figs. 

Roley Poley Pudding 
Roll pastry or a baking-powder biscuit dough very thin, 
about one eighth of an inch in thickness, spread with jam, 
blackberry, black currant, or raspberry. Roll like a jelly 
roll, press, and close the ends as tight as possible. Tie in 
a floured cloth, and cook in boiling water two hours, or 
steam in steamer one hour. Remove from cloth and serve 
on hot platter with Foamy Sauce. 

Cream Croquettes 

2 cups milk scalded | cup sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

I cup cold milk i cup chopped almonds 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch and cold milk, add hot milk, and cook in 
double boiler until mixture thickens. Add eggs well 
beaten, sugar, almonds and vanilla. Cook two minutes. 
Pour into shallow pan; chill; cut into squares or rounds; 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper, roll in powdered sugar, and serve. Serve 
with Lemon Sauce. 



228 lowney's cook book 

English Pudding 

i cup butter 1 teaspoou soda 

1 cup seeded raisins ^ teaspoon cloves 

1 cup molasses i teaspoon cinnamon 

f cup milk i teaspoon mace 

1 teaspoon salt 3| cups flour 

Cream butter; add remaining ingredients; pour into but- 
tered mold; steam four hours. Serve with Brandy Sauce 
or Foamy Sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Apricot Sauce 

i cup apricot jam, or i cup water 

1 cup apricot juice 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

i cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

few gi'ains salt 

Boil all ingredients ten minutes. 

Apple Sauce 
1 cup chopped ajjple | cup cold water 

1 tablespoon arrowroot few grains cinnamon 

few grains salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

grated rind of i lemon 

Cook all together ten minutes. Strain, add more lemon 

juice if needed. 

Banana Sauce 

1 cup water 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs. 

3 banana pulps few grains salt 

Boil sugar and water ten minutes. Mix remaining in- 
gredients and pour hot syrup on to them. Beat well and 

serve hot. 

Creamy Sauce 

I cup butter 2 tablespoons cream 

A cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

Mix butter and sugar until creamy, add wine and 
cream. Cook over hot water until liquefied. 



DESSEBTS 229 

Cream Sauce 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 cups cream 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix egg yolk and sugar; add white of egg beaten until 
stiff, flavoring, and just before sending to the table the 
beaten cream. Serve cold. 

Cream Brandy Sauce 

1 cup water 3 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons brandy 

^ cup cream few orange rind gratings 

few grains salt 

Cook sugar and water ten minutes; beat yolks; add 
cream, brandy, salt, orange rind gratings. Add sugar and 
water slowly and beat until mixture thickens. 

Cream Sherry Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter | cup cream 

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons sherry 

2 egg yolks few grains salt 

Mix butter, sugar, yolks and cream; cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens; add wine, and serve. 

Caramel Sauce 
1 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

Caramelize sugar in clean saucepan. When a light 
brown color, add water, and simmer fifteen minutes. 

Cherry Sauce 

1| cups cherries i glass currant jelly 

1 cup claret juice and rind of h lemon. 

^ cup sugar 1 inch stick cinnamon 

Remove stones from cherries and cook all ingredients 
together until syrupy. Strain and serve. 



230 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Claret Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup water 

1 cup claret 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy, add claret, and serve 

hot or cold. 

Coffee Sauce 

^ cup sugar f cup black coffee 

2 eggs 2 cup cream 

few grains salt 

Mix eggs, sugar, salt and coffee, and cook in double 

boiler until mixture thickens. Chill; add beaten cream 

and serve cold. 

Currant Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup currant juice 

i cup water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy ; add currant juice 
and lemon juice. Serve hot or cold. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 inch piece stick cinnamon 

1 cup water I cup currant jelly 

Boil sugar, water and cinnamon until syrupy. Re- 
move cinnamon ; add jelly ; when melted, strain and serve. 

Custard Sauce 

2 cups milk ^ cup sugar 

3 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

1 teaspoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

few grains salt 

Make a custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt ; when 
thick, add butter, flavoring and beaten whites. Serve cold. 

Foamy Sauce No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

3 egg whites rind and juice of 1 lemon 



DESSERTS 231 

Heat the milk. Beat egg whites until stiff ; add sugar, 
continue beating ; add milk and flavoring, continue beat- 
ing. Serve when foamy. 

Foamy Sauce No. 2 

i cup butter 1 egg yolk 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

2 egg whites 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolk of egg and wine. Cook 
over hot water, until hot. Remove from fire and add 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Foamy Sauce No. 3 

3 egg whites rind of ^ lemon 

^ cup powdered sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon flavoring 

Beat whites until stiff; add sugar and flavoring and 

continue beating, adding hot water very gradually. Serve 

hot or cold. 

Fruit Sauce No. i 

1 cup sugar ^ cup fruit juice 

1 cup water 2 tablespoons arrowroot 

Mix arrowroot, sugar and water ; boil ten minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Add fruit juice and cook until syrupy, 

and serve hot. 

Fruit Sauce No. 2 

1 cup sugar 1 cup pulp and juice of fruit 

I cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy. Add lemon and 
fruit juice and pulp. Serve hot without straining. 

Grape Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup grape juice 

^ cup water 1 tablespoon orange or lemon juice 

Boil all together until syrupy. Serve hot or cold. 



232 lowney's cook book 

Hard Sauce No. i 

I cup butter \Yine, brandy, or vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon hot water 

Cream butter ; add sugar by the teaspoon, and beat until 
light and creamy. Flavor and serve. 

Hard Sauce No. 2 

i cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon brandy 

\ cup beaten cream. 

Cream butter ; add sugar and cream alternately, flavor- 
ing, and serve very cold. 

Stirling Sauce 

i cup butter 3 tablespoons milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

Mix sugar, wine and milk, and warm in double boiler 
or over hot water. Add to creamed butter slowly. Do 
not permit the sugar mixture to become hot, only warm. 

Kirsch Sauce 

Use rule for Stirling Sauce, substituting one fourth cup 

kirsch for wine. 

Lemon Sauce 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or corn- 1 cup sugar 

starch grated rind and juice one lemon 

2 cups water li tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot and cornstarch with sugar. Add boil- 
ing water and cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and 

butter. Serve hot. 

Maple Sauce 

2 egg yolks | cup beaten cream 

^ cup maple syrup few grains salt 

Beat yolks until thick ; add maple syrup and cook until 
it thickens. Add beaten cream, salt. Chill and serve. 



DESSERTS 233 

Maraschino Sauce 

1 cup sugar 2 cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon arrowroot 2 tablespoons maraschino 

Mix sugar, arrowroot and boiling water; boil ten min- 
utes. Add maraschino. Chill and serve. 

Orange Sauce No. i 

grated rind, juice, and pulp of 3 3 egg whites 

oranges 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

^ cup powdered sugar 

Beat Avhites until stiff ; add remaining ingredients. 

Serve cold. 

Orange Sauce No. 2 

Make the same as Lemon Sauce, substituting the juice 
and rind of two oranges for lemon. 

Rum Sauce 

^ cup powdered sugar 2 egg whites 

2 egg yolks 3 tablespoons rum 

I cup beaten cream 

Mix sugar, yolks of eggs and rum, then the stiffly 

beaten whites. Cook until thick ; add the beaten cream. 

Chill and serve. 

Sabayon Sauce No. i 

4 egg yolks 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

I cup wine 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix all ingredients and, just before serving, cook over 
hot water until it begins to thicken. 

Sabayon Sauce No. 2 

1 whole egg ^ cup sugar 

2 egg yolks ^ cup sherry 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix all ingredients and cook over hot water, stirring 
constant!}^ until mixture thickens. 



234 lowj^ey's cook book 

Strawberry Sauce 

I cup butter 1 cup strawberries 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 beaten egg white 

Cream butter ; add sugar, egg white ; beat well ; add 
strawberries crushed to a pulp. Serve. 

Vanilla Sauce 

I cup butter 1 cup cream 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Cream butter ; add sugar, beaten cream and flavoring. 
Heat over hot water until all is liquid. Serve hot. 

Brown Sugar Sauce 

^ cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup brown sugar | cup cream 

Mix cream and brown sugar, and add to creamed butter 
very gradually. When of creamy consistency, add flavor- 
ing. 

Italian Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 3 egg yolks 

1 cup powdered sugar juice and rind of 1 lemon 

2 teaspoons cornstarch ^ cup boiling water 

^ cup candied cherries ^ cup angelica cut in pieces 

Cream butter ; add sugar and cornstarch, yolks of eggs 
well beaten, and boiling water ; boil three minutes ; add 
remaining ingredients and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium ^ cup water 

Chocolate 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook all the ingredients except vanilla 12 minutes ; add 
vanilla, and serve hot. This sauce is especially good 
served with vanilla ice cream, but is good with any gela- 
tine dessert. 



DESSERTS 235 

Orange Chocolate Sauce 

3 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 4 tablespoons sugar 

Chocolate grated J cup rich milk 

3 tablespoons butter i cup orange juice 

3 egg yolks grated rind of 1 orange 

Melt chocolate in top of double boiler ; add butter, stir 
until well mixed ; add egg yolks, one at a time, sugar, and 
milk. Cook until thickened, add orange juice and rind, 
and serve at once. 

Chocolate Cream Sauce 

I cup powdered sugar \ teaspoon salt 

1 cup cream 4 tablespoons hot water 

I cup Lowney's Premium Choco- 1 egg white 

late grated 1 teaspoon almond extract, or 

1 tablespoon cordial 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar and boiling water ; cook until 
glossy. Cool. Beat cream until stiff ; add chocolate mix- 
ture gradually ; cut and fold in beaten white. Flavor and 
serve. One half cup Lowney's Cocqa may be substituted 
for the chocolate. 

PASTRY 

Rule for lining Plate and making Cover for Pie with Two Crusts 

Roll the paste one quarter inch thick. Cut paste an 
eighth of an inch larger than plate. Cut strips three 
quarters inch wide for a rim. Cut upper crust at least 
one eighth inch larger than plate. Arrange lower crust 
on plate, wet edges with cold water, lay strips of paste or 
rim on this, taking care to lap and seal the ends with cold 
water. Fill the pie with whatever material is to be used. 
Cut little slits in center of upper crust. Lay on pie ; wet 
edges of rim. Have all edges even, leaving fullness in 
center to allow for shrinking. Press edges lightly but 
firmly. 



236 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Rule for making a Pie with Under Crust only- 
Roll paste one eighth inch thick. Cut one inch larger 
than plate. Spread on plate ; fold edge under, making 
paste the size of plate. This edge may be fluted or plain. 
Chill before filling. 

Rule for Baking Pies 

Perforated tin pie plates secure a well-baked under 

crust. Place pie in hot oven at first, reducing heat after 

crust becomes hardened. Turn frequently while baking, 

and bake until a golden brown — about forty-five minutes. 

Chopped Paste 

li cups flour _ 4 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons lard i teaspoon salt 

cold water 

Sift salt and flour ; add lard or butter when thoroughly 
chilled. Chop until like meal ; add cold water to make 
a stiff dough. Chill ; roll on a floured cloth or molding 
board into a rectangular shape ; fold ends towards center, 
double, turn halfway round, and roll again. 

This paste is a superior one. Chill before rolling for 

pies. 

Plain Paste 

Use same rule as for Chopped Paste. Chop lard into 
sifted flour ; when thoroughly mixed, add salt and water 
to form dough. Chill; roll in rectangular piece; place 
butter which has previously been shaped, flattened, and 
chilled on middle of one side of paste ; fold over other side, 
press edges together, and fold one end under and one end 
over butter, making six layers. Roll again into rectangle ; 
fold in same way, and so continue three times. If butter 
begins to soften, roll paste in cheese cloth and place on ice 
until hard enough to roll easily. Be careful not to wet 
the cheese cloth. 



DESSERTS 237 

Puff Paste 
1 pound butter 1 pound flour 

cold water 

Shape and flatten butter into a round cake. Chill. 
Sift flour several times ; add cold water to form a dough 
a little stiffer than for baking powder biscuit. Chill. 
Place butter in same way as directed in Plain Paste and 
roll paste seven times. Chill if necessary between each 
rolling. 

Apple Pie 

Use either Puff or Plain Paste. For filling for a medium- 
sized pie tin, three cups pared and sliced apples, one half 
cup sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt, one tablespoon butter, 
one fourth teaspoon cinnamon, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
and grated rind of one half lemon. 

Apple Pie No. 2 

Use either Puff or Plain Paste. For filling use rule for 
Apple Sauce, and season to taste. 

Blueberry Pie 
Line a deep perforated tin with Plain or Chopped Paste ; 
brush with water or white of egg. Fill with floured blue- 
berries ; add sugar, butter, salt and vinegar. Allow one 
cup of sugar to three cups of berries, one tablespoon butter, 
one eighth teaspoon salt, and one half teaspoon vinegar. 
Cover with crust and bake. 

Blackberry Pie 
Use rule for Blueberry Pie, omitting flour and vinegar. 

Cranberry Pie 
Use Plain or Chopped Paste. Fill with two cups cran- 
berries, one and one half cups sugar, one quarter cup water, 
and one tablespoon butter. Cover with upper crust or a 



238 lowney's cook book 

lattice of paste strips ; or bake without any upper crust. 
Decorate when done with pastry baked in fancy shapes. 

Cranberry Pie No. 2 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix one and one quarter 
cups chopped cranberries, one half cup chopped raisins, 
one cup sugar, one quarter cup water, and one tablespoon 
butter. 

This is sometimes called Mock Cherry Pie. 

Currant Pie 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two cups cleaned, 
fresh currants, two cups sugar, two tablespoons flour, two 
eggs, and one eighth teaspoon salt. 

Bake with two crusts ; or omit upper crust and cover 
with meringue when cooked. 

Custard Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling, mix three 

eggs, one fourth cup sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt, one 

eighth teaspoon nutmeg, and two cups milk. Bake in 

slow oven. 

Citron Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling, mix two cups 
seeded raisins chopped, two cups citron chopped, one and 
one half cups sugar, grated rind of one lemon, four table- 
spoons lemon juice, one eighth teaspoon salt. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a plate with Plain Paste ; fill with following mix- 
ture : two cups milk, three egg yolks, one half cup sugar, 
two tablespoons cornstarch, one cup grated cocoanut, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
and one tablespoon butter. 



DESSERTS 239 

Date Pie 

Use Plain Paste. Add one and one half cups of dates, 
which have been cooked in boiling water until tender and 
pressed through a sieve, to Custard Pie filling. 

Lemon Pie 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two tablespoons corn- 
starch, one cup sugar, and one half cup boiling water, boil 
five minutes, add one tablespoon butter, juice and rind of 
one lemon, and two eggs well beaten. 

Lemon Pie No. 2 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix one cup sugar, yolks 
of four eggs, one eighth teaspoon salt, one cup milk, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, and the whites of four eggs 
beaten until stiff. Cover with meringue when done. 

Mince Pie 

Use Plain Paste for under crust, fill with mince-meat, 
cover with Puff Paste. 

Peach Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling use two cups 
peaches, cut into eighths, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
butter, one eighth teaspoon salt, and two tablespoons water. 

Plum Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. Remove stones from two 
cups plums; add one half cup sugar; dredge with flour; add 
two tablespoons lemon juice and one tablespoon butter. 

Prune Pie 

Substitute prunes for plums and follow rule for Plum 
Pie. 



240 LOIVNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Pumpkin Pie 

Line pie plate with Plain Paste. For filling, mix one 
and one half cups stewed and strained pumpkin, one and 
one half cups milk, one egg, three fourths cup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, one half teaspoon each, of 
salt and ginger, and one teaspoon cinnamon. 

Chocolate Cream Pie 

2 squares Lowney's PremiLim 2 egg whites 

Chocolate or i cup sugar 

i cup of Lowney's Cocoa 3 egg yolks 

1 cup cornstarch ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Melt two squares Lowney's Chocolate or one half cup 
Lowney's Cocoa, add sugar, cornstarch, egg yolks, salt 
and milk. Cook in double boiler till thick, stirring con- 
stantly; flavor with vanilla. Pour into a baked piecrust 
shell, cover with a meringue made by beating egg whites 
till stiff and adding two tablespoons sugar; brown in oven 
and serve cold. See colored illustration, Plate VIII. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two cups rhubarb cut 
in inch pieces, one cup sugar, two tablespoons each of 
butter and flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon salt, and 
one teaspoon lemon juice. 

Squash Pie 

Use Chopped Paste. For filling, mix one cup stewed 
and strained squash, one half cup sugar, one half teaspoon 
salt, two eggs, one half teaspoon cinnamon, one fourth 
teaspoon nutmeg, and one half cup milk. 

A very good pie may be made by using one and one 
half cups of the squash left from dinner, sweetening and 
seasoning it without adding eggs. 



DESSERTS 241 

Mince Pie Filling 

3 lbs. lean beef finely chopped 2 tablespoons salt 

2 lbs. suet finely chopped 4 cups sugar 

3 qts. apples finely chopped 1 cup coffee 
3 lbs. raisins seeded and chopped 2 cups cider 

2 lbs. currants 1 teaspoon cloves 

3 lbs. citron cut in small pieces 1 teaspoon allspice 

I cup candied orange peel chopped 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I cup candied lemon peel chopped 3 cups brandy 

I cup lemon juice 1 cup sherry 

\ cup orange juice 1 cup currant jelly 

Mix all ingredients except brandy and sherry, and cook 
two hours; add liquor; let stand in crock for a week before 
using. 

Vol-au-vent 

Roll Puff Paste one half inch thick. Cut out in desired 
shape, wet edges, and place one inch rim on wet edge. 
Prick several times in center that paste may rise evenly. 
Chill. Cut cover the size of space inside the rim. Decorate 
top of cover with paste circles, crescents, or diamonds, 
always wetting under surface with cold water before ar- 
ranging. Chill before baking. 

Pate Shells 

Roll Puff Paste one third inch thick; shape with round 
cutter; cut rings from one half the rounds. Place rings 
on rounds, using cold water to hold them together. Chill 
until stiff before baking. 

Bouchees 

Roll Puff Paste one fourth inch thick. Cut with small 
round cutter; make impression on round with smaller 
round cutter. Chill until stiff before baking. 



242 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Tarts 

Roll Puff Paste a little less than one fourth inch in 
thickness. Cut in rounds, squares, or diamonds; put on 
rim, wetting edges. Chill and bake. 

Vol-au-vent No. 2 

Cover the outside of a charlotte russe mold with Puff 
Paste, cut one fourth inch thick. Prick surface of paste, 
chill, and bake. Cut a cover for vol-au-vent to fit mold; 
prick, chill, and bake. Remove vol-au-vent from mold 
immediately after baking. 

Rule for Baking Puff Paste 

Always chill Puff Paste before baking. Place in very 
hot oven; protect u^Dper surface of paste, if necessary, at 
first. 

Pates should be baked in twenty-four minutes; after the 
first fifteen, decrease heat. 

Vol-au-vent should bake forty -five minutes to one hour, 
and should be turned frequently. Remove soft inside 
portion as soon as taken from oven. Tarts and bouchees 
should be baked the same as pates. 

Frangipane Tartlets 

Cover fluted patty tins with Puff Paste. Make covers 
a little larger than patty tins. Bake in a hot oven. Fill 
with Frangipane Cream. Cover with meringue, and deco- 
rate with cherries, angelica, and blanched and browned 

almonds. 

Frangipane Cream 

Mix two tablespoons flour, one fourth cup powdered 
sugar, and one fourth cup cream until smooth. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring constantly; add four egg yolks, one 
tablespoon each of sherry, lemon juice, lemon rind, and 



DESSERTS 243 

chopped citron. Cook in double boiler until mixture 

thickens. 

Almond Sticks 

Roll Puff Paste one eighth inch thick. Brush with 
white of egg^ sprinkle with shredded almonds and pow- 
dered sugar. Cut into strips one half inch wide and three 
inches long. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cheese Straws 

Roll Puff Paste — trimmings will do for this purpose 

— one eighth inch thick. Sprinkle with salt, cayenne 

pepper, and grated cheese. To keep these ingredients on 

the paste, pat and fold in three layers. Roll again, spread, 

fold, and roll as before. Cut in strips half inch wide and 

five inches long. 

Banbury Tarts 

Make tarts and fill with the following cooked mixture : 

mix for filling, one cup seeded and chopped raisins, one 

cup sugar, three tablespoons cracker crumbs, one egg^ one 

tablespoon butter, one eighth teaspoon salt, juice and rind 

of one lemon. 

Banbury Squares 

Roll Chopped Paste one fourth inch thick ; cut in three 
inch squares. Put one and one half teaspoons Banbury 
mixture on one side of square, wet edges, fold to make a 
triangle, prick, and bake. 

Apple Tarts 

Fill tarts with Apple Sauce to which has been added 
one tablespoon butter. 

Cranberry Tarts 

Fill tarts with cranberry filling used for Cranberry 
Pie. 



244 lo^vnet's cook book 

Lemon Tarts 

Fill tarts with Lemon Cream used for Lemon Pie, 
cooked in double boiler until thick. 

Peach Tarts 

Cook two cups peaches cut in eighths, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon butter, and a few 
grains salt, until peaches are tender. Cool and fill tarts. 

Pineapple Tarts 

Cook one cup grated pineapple, one fourth cup sugar, 
two egg yolks, grated rind and juice of one lemon, and 
few grains of salt, until thick. Chill and fill tarts. 

Gooseberry Tart 

For this tart cover the outside of a round agate-ware 
baking dish, with Chopped Paste. Chill, bake. For fill- 
ing mix four cups gooseberries, one cup sugar, few grat- 
ings lemon rind, few gratings nutmeg. Stew until 
gooseberries are tender; add two tablespoons butter. 
Use hot or cold in paste shell. Serve with cream or soft 

custard. 

Lemon Crisps 

Cut Puff Paste in strips four inches long and one inch 
wide, rolled one fourth inch in thickness. Arrange in 
pairs with Lemon Filling between. 

Orange Crisps 

Prepare the same as Lemon Crisps, using Orange 
Filling. 

Chantilly Tarts 

Fill tarts with strawberry jam; serve with whipped 
cream. 



BESSEBTS 245 

Crisp a la Russe 

Roll Puff Paste one eighth inch thick. Cut in strips 
two inches wide and four inches long. Spread one half 
with jam or jelly, fold over other half, press edges together, 
bake in hot oven. Brush with white of egg.^ sprinkle with 
almonds. Brown in oven. 



CHAPTER XIV 
CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 

Suggestions for making and baking Cake 

1st. Get all materials needed together. 

2d. Attend to fire, making sure, if it is a coal fire, 
that there is sufficient coal to last through the baking. 

3d. Measure all ingredients with same cup, dry ones 
first. 

4th. Mix and sift all dry ingredients except sugar ; if 
soda is used, sift through a very fine sieve before sifting 
with other ingredients. 

Mixing Butter Cakes 

Cream Butter. — Cream butter, that is, beat it with a 
spoon until it is of a creamy consistency ; then add sugar 
very gradually; when well blended, add yolks of eggs 
which have been beaten with a Dover ^gg beater until 
lemon-colored and thick. 

When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, add 
sifted dry ingredients alternately with the milk. When 
all milk and flour have been used, beat well ; then cut 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
buttered and papered pan, having mixture a little higher 
on the sides than in the middle. 

Cutting and Folding. — Cut through and through the 
mixture with a knife or side of a wooden spoon, fold by 
turning the spoon completely over, thereby blending the 
materials without breaking the air bubbles. Never stir 
or beat after cutting and folding. 

246 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 247 

Mixing Sponge Cake 

Beat yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add 
sugar and continue beating; add flour; when well blended, 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into buttered and papered pan; bake in a round pan with 
a tube in the center. 

Baking Cake 

For baking both sponge and butter cakes divide the 
time into quarters. The first quarter, the cake should 
rise; the second quarter, form a crust and begin to brown; 
third quarter, continue browning; and fourth quarter, 
finish browning and shrink from the pan. When baked, 
this may be determined by pressing crust with the finger; 
if a depression is left the cake is not done; if the cake 
springs back and leaves no depression, it is done. Take 
from oven, invert on a cake cooler, remove paper, turn 
right-side up and cool. When cold, frost. 

Time for Baking Cake 

Thin cakes and individual cakes require from twelve to 
fifteen minutes to bake ; loaf cakes from thirty to sixty 
minutes according to size. 

If the cake rises unevenly, the mixture is too thick or 
the oven is too hot. 

If the oven seems too hot, when the cake is ready for 
the oven, put the cake in the oven, but do not close the 
oven door for the first five or ten minutes of baking. 

To grease Tins 

Warm pans slightly; brush with melted lard, suet, or 
clarified butter ; cover bottom of pan only with tissue 
paper, then grease the paper. 

Lard or suet is less apt to brown than butter, but 



248 lownet's cook book 

many object to their use; if so, clarify the butter, by melt- 
ing butter, letting stand until salt has settled to the 
bottom, then pouring off the liquid butter. 

CAKE 
Plain Chocolate Cake 

1 cup butter 4 ounces Lowney's Premium Chocolate 
1^ cups sugar 5 tablespoons boiling water 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder | cup milk 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter; add the sugar very gradually, yolks 
of eggs well beaten, flour in which the baking powder and 
salt have been sifted, milk, and chocolate mixed with 
water. Beat well; add beaten whites, pour into buttered 
pans, and bake forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 
This cake may be baked in small cakes by omitting one 
fourth cup flour. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium Choc- 2 cups flour 

olate 3 eggs 

1^ cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup butter I teaspoon salt 

i cup milk 3 tablespoons boiling water 

Melt chocolate, add boiling water, and cook over hot 
water until smooth. Cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
when of a creamy consistency, add chocolate mixture, 
yolks of eggs well beaten, flour in which salt and baking 
powder have been sifted, and milk. Beat well; cut and 
fold in well-beaten whites; add flavoring. Pour into 
buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven thirty or forty 
minutes. Frost with white or chocolate frosting. 

This mixture may be used for layer cakes by omitting 
one fourth cup flour and baking in layer cake pans. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 249 

Chocolate Raisin Cake 

1 cup butter 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
1^ cups sugar Chocolate, grated 

f cup milk I teaspoon cimiamou 

5 egg yolks 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 teaspoon salt 3| cups flour 

2 tablespoons sherry or brandy 3 teaspoons baking powder 

5 egg whites 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, grated chocolate, 
raisins, cinnamon, baking powder and salt sifted with 
flour, milk. Beat well; add flavoring and AA^ell-beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in deep buttered pans, forty minutes. 
This amount will make two loaves. The wine or brandy 
may be omitted, in which case, use one cup of milk instead 
of three fourths cup. 

Chocolate Pound Cake 

1 cup butter i cup Lowney's Premium Choco- 

1 cup sugar late, grated 

5 egg yolks 2 cups flour 

5 egg whites i cup brandy 

1 cup citron cut in small pieces 
I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon-colored, flour, citron, salt. Beat 
well; cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. 
Pour into buttered pans and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. This cake may be baked in a buttered dripping 
pan and when cold cut into fancy shapes and iced. 

Cocoa Cake 

I cup butter i cup milk 

1| cups sugar Ih cups flour 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 

i cup Lowney's Cocoa i teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



250 lownet's cook book 

Mix in the order given and beat well for five minutes. 
Bake in buttered pan thirty to forty minutes in moderate 
oven. 

Walnut Chocolate Cake 

I cup Lowney's Always Ready 1 cup sugar 
Chocolate Powder 2 egg yolks 

I- cup butter 2| teaspoons baking powder 

1| cups flour 2 tablespoons hot water 

I cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup walnut meats salt 

Cream butter; add sugar, yolks of eggs well beaten and 
flour in which baking powder has been sifted, milk, and 
chocolate which has been moistened with hot water ; 
beat well and add walnut meats. Bake in buttered jelly 
cake pans about twenty minutes. 

Spread one cake with one half cup of Lowney's Sweet 
Chocolate Powder moistened with one fourth cup boiling 
water and flavored with one teaspoon vanilla. Sprinkle 
with broken walnuts, cover with other cake, and ice 
with white frosting. See colored illustration, Plate IX, 
opposite. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

^ cup Lowney's Always Ready whites of 3 eggs 

Chocolate Powder 2 tablespoons hot water 

yolks of 3 eggs ^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup sugar ^ cup pastry flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar and 
continue beating. Mix chocolate with water, add to sugar 
mixture; cut and fold in flour, salt and beaten whites. 
Flavor and bake in buttered pan in a moderate oven three 
quarters of an hour. See colored illustration, Plate X, 
opposite. 




WALNUT CHOCOLATE CAKt 
Plate IX. For Recipe see page 250 




CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 
Plate X. For Recipe see page 250 




COCOA PARFAIT 
Plate XL For Recipe see page 289 




COCOA FRAPPE 
Plate XII. For Recipe see page 282 



CAKE AND cookies; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 251 

Chocolate Nut Cakes 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 2| cups flour 

Chocolate, grated I cup milk 

1| cups sugar 8 egg whites 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup nut meats broken in pieces salt 

1 cup butter 

Cream butter ; add sugar, flour in which baking powder 
has been sifted, and milk, and beat well ; add whites of 
eggs beaten stiff and nut meats; then add chocolate and 
vanilla. Pour into buttered gem pans and bake in hot 
oven twenty-five minutes. 

Simple Butter Cake 

^ cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

4 egg yolks 4 egg whites 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon flavoring 

I teaspoon salt 

Follow directions for making Butter CakeJ and bake in 

a loaf in a moderate oven forty minutes, or in rounds 

twenty minutes. 

Currant Cake 

Add one cup currants to Simple Butter Cake. Bake 

in loaves or rounds. 

Layer Cake 

Bake Simple Butter Cake in four square shallow pans. 

Fill with lemon cream, cocoanut cream, chocolate cream, 

or lelly. 

Gold Cake 

I cup butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 



1^ cups sugar 1^ cups milk 

8 egg yolks ^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon lemon extract, or 

2^ cups flour 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Follow directions for Butter Cake, and bake in loaves 
or rounds. 



252 lowney's cook book 

Silver Cake 

f cup butter \ teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar \ cup milk 

2 cups pastry flour 8 egg whites 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon almond extract 

Follow directions for mixing Butter Cake. Bake in 
loaves or rounds in a moderate oven. 

Nut Cake 

Add one cup chopped walnuts to Silver Cake mixture, 
and flavor with vanilla instead of almond. 

Orange Cake ♦ 

\ cup butter 1| cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 egg yolks \ cup milk 

\ teaspoon salt 2 egg whites 

1 tablespoon orange extract 

Mix as Butter Cake, and bake in two-layer cake pans 

twenty minutes. Cool, fill with orange filling, and cover 

with orange frosting. 

Cream Pie 

Use rule for Orange Cake. Fill with cream filling, and 
sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

Spice Cake 

^ cup butter 2 cups flour 

1^ cups brown sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

\ cup milk J teaspoon nutmeg 

\ teaspoon salt \ teaspoon clove 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add butter, sugar, eggs, 
and milk, and beat until smooth. Bake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. One cup chopped raisins, or one cup 
chopped dates may be added to this cake. 



CAKE AND cookies; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 253 



^ cup butter 

1 cup sugar 

2 egg yolks 
^ cup milk 

2 egg whites 



Marble Cake 

J teaspoon cinnamon 
J teaspoon nutmeg 
I teaspoon salt 
1| cups of flour 
3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 tablespoon molasses 



Cream butter ; add sugar, yolks of eggs beaten until 
thick, flour in which baking powder has been sifted, alter- 
nately with milk and egg whites, beaten until stiff. To 
one third of this mixture add the spices. Pour into pan 
the light and dark mixtures irregularly. 



Jelly Roll 



3 egg yolks 
1| cups sugar 
^ cup water 
I teaspoon salt 



2 cups pastry flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 



3 egg whites 



1 teaspoon vanilla 

Sift baking powder and salt with flour, and follow 
directions for making Sponge Cake. Pour into medium- 
sized buttered dripping pan to depth of one half inch. 
Bake in a moderate oven ten to twelve minutes ; turn on 
to a wet cheese cloth sprinkled with confectioners' sugar. 
Cut off edges of cake, spread with warm jelly, and roll. 
Work quickly. -* 

Pound Cake 



1 pound butter 
1 pound sugar 
10 eggs 



1 pound flour 
^ cup wine 
^ cup brandy 



few gratings nutmeg 
Cream butter ; add flour. When well blended, add 
yolks of eggs beaten until thick, then sugar with nutmeg, 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and wine and brandy. 
Bake in loaves or small cakes. 



254 lowney's cook book 

Fruit Cake 

1 pound sugar (brown) 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 pound butter 2 cups raisins 

12 eggs 4 cups currants 

1 pound flour 4 cups chopped almonds 

^ teaspoon cloves 4 cups chopped citron 

1 teaspoon each nutmeg and juice and rind of 1 lemon 

mace I cup brandy 

Cream butter ; add sugar, eggs well beaten, and remain- 
ing ingredients. Pour into buttered and papered pans. 
Steam three hours and bake two hours. 



Raised Fruit Cake 

4 cups flour J yeast cake dissolved in one half 

1 cup butter cup water 

1^ cups sugar 2 eggs 

^ cup milk J ciif) wine 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 cup citron 

Mix all ingredients except eggs and fruit. Raise over 
night. In the morning add eggs and fruit ; cover and 
raise again ; pour into buttered and papered pans ; let it 
rise one hour. Bake in moderate oven one and one half to 
two hours. 

Imperial Cake 

f cup butter 2 cups seeded raisins 

Ij cups sugar 1^ cups currants 

3 egg yolks 1 cup citron 

2^ cups flour ^ cup candied orange peel 

3 teaspoons baking powder i cup brandy 

J cup milk 3 egg whites 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix as Butter Cake, adding fruit last. Bake in but- 
tered and papered pans in a moderate oven one hour. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 255 

Fig Cake 

Use rule for Orange Cake. Bake in layers. Fill with 
Fig Filling, and sprinkle with confectioners' sugar. 

Marshmallow Cake 

Bake Silver Cake in layers. Fill and frost with Marsh- 
mallow Frosting. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake 

Add four squares melted chocolate to Silver Cake. 

Bake in layers, and fill and cover with Marshmallow 

Frosting. 

Mocha Cake 

Use rule for Hot Water Sponge Cake. Bake in layers. 
Cool ; cut in rounds ; arrange in three layers, with con- 
fectioners' frosting between ; spread sides and top with 
Mocha Frosting; sprinkle sides with cocoanut, and gar- 
nish top with Mocha Frosting, put through pastry bag. 

If a coffee cake is preferred, substitute hot coffee for 
hot water in Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

Plain Sponge Cake 

8 eggs weiglit of eggs in sugar 

|- weight of eggs in flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Beat yolks ten minutes; add sugar; beat five minutes; 
add lemon juice and flour; when well blended, add stiffly 
beaten whites, cutting and folding them in. 

Pour into angel cake pan and bake in a moderate oven 

one hour. 

Plain Sponge Cake No. 2 

1 cup powdered sugar grated rind J lemon 

I cup flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

^ teaspoon salt 4 eggs 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar, 
rind and juice of lemon. Cut and fold in the well-beaten 



256 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

whites, also the sifted flour. When thoroughly blended, 

pour into buttered and papered pan and bake thirty to 

forty minutes. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 cup flour 3 egg whites 

1 tablespoon lemon juice J teaspoon salt 

Beat egg yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add 
sugar and continue beating. Add flour, mixed and sifted 
with baking powder and salt, hot water, and whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff, with lemon juice added. 

Simple Chocolate Cake 

3 eggs grated rind and juice of ^ lemon 

^ cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

I teaspoon salt i teaspoon cinnamon 

A cup Lowney's Cocoa ^ teaspoon baking powder 

^ teaspoon vanilla ^ teaspoon clove 

Mix cocoa, spice, flour, baking powder, and salt; beat the 
yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add sugar and 
beat well; add lemon juice and rind; when well blended, 
add chocolate mixture and the beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in buttered shallow pans twenty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. When cool put together with chocolate frost- 
ing or currant jelly or White Mountain Cream. 

Cold Water Sponge Cake 

6 eggs . I cup cold water . 

3 cups sugar 3 cups flour 

grated rind and juice of J lemon 3 teaspoons baking powder 

J teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick; add 
sugar, rind and juice of lemon, water, flour in which salt 
and baking powder has been sifted. When well blended, 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 257 

cut and fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two 
pans thirty to forty minutes. 



Cream Sponge Cake 

1 oup sugar grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

^ cup water 1^ cups flour 

5 egg yolks , 5 egg whites 

Cook water and sugar until it threads. Beat egg yolks 
until lemon-colored and thick. Add sugar syrup, lemon 
juice and rind, and beat until mixture is cold. Cut and 
fold in the beaten whites and Hour. Bake in an angel 
cake pan forty to fifty minutes. 



True Sponge Cake 

6 eggs 1 cup flcur 

1 cup sugar juice and rind one lemon 

i teaspoon salt 

Follow directions for making Sponge Cake. Bake in a 
deep pan forty to sixty minutes. 



Angel Cake 

1 cup granulated sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 cup egg whites 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg whites on platter with wire beater. When 
foamy, add cream of tartar ; when stiff, add sugar gradu- 
ally. Sift flour four times with salt. Cut and fold into 
egg mixture. Add vanilla, bake one hour in moderate 
oven in angel cake pan. Invert pan on cake cooler and 
allow it to drop out itself. If too brown, wrap in wet 
cheese cloth for ten minutes ; then brown may be easily 
removed. 



258 lowney's cook book 

Sunshine Cake 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

5 egg yolks 6 egg whites 

^ teaspoon salt 1^ tablespoons orange juice 

I cup flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar 
and flavoring and continue beating. Mix and sift flour 
and cream of tartar four times. Cut and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites, alternately with flour. Bake in an angel 
cake pan one hour in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Cake 

J cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 4 ounces chocolate, melted 

J cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Follow rule for mixing Butter Cake and bake in loaf or 
rounds in moderate oven. 

Almond Cake 

Use rule for Silver Cake. Bake in shallow pan; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and chopped almonds. Bake twenty 
to thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

Bride's Cake 

Use rule for Silver Cake and bake in angel cake pan forty 
to sixty minutes. 

Lemon Queens 

J cup butter 4 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar grated rind 1 lemon 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 

Make as Butter Cake and bake in buttered lemon queen 
pans twenty to thirty minutes. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 259 

Cream Puffs 

1 cup boiling water 5 eggs 

h cup butter 1 tablespoon sugar 

1| cups flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Boil sugar, water and butter one minute; add flour all 
at once. When mixture leaves side of the pan in a mass, 
add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly. When all 
eggs are used, beat five minutes ; drop from tip of table- 
spoon on to a buttered sheet and bake one half hour in 
quick oven. Fill with cream filling, strawberry filling, 
chocolate filling, or whipped cream. 



Eclairs 

Use rule for Cream Puffs. Put mixture in pastry bag or 
shape in strips three and one half inches long and one inch 
wide, on buttered sheet. Bake twenty to thirty minutes 
in quick oven. 

Fill with cream, chocolate, coffee, or strawberry filling, 
and brush tops with melted fondant, chocolate frosting, or 
confectioners' frosting. 

Lady Fingers 

6 eggs grated rind 1 lemon 

I cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour powdered sugar 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar 
and continue beating. Add lemon rind and the egg whites, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Cut and fold in the flour and salt. 
Shape on buttered sheet, using tablespoon or pastry bag 
and tube, four inches long and one inch wide. Sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar. 

Bake twelve minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



260 lowney's cook book 

sponge Drops 

Use rule for Lady Fingers. Drop from a tablespoon in 
rounds the size of a silver dollar on buttered sheet. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake as Lady Fingers. 

Sugar Cookies 

I cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar ^ 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon milk I teaspoon salt 

flavoring 2 cups flour 

Cream butter; add sugar, yolks Avell beaten, flour, 
baking powder, and salt, milk, and whites beaten to a stiff 
froth, and enough more flour to make of consistency to 
roll. Cut off a small piece of dough, roll on floured board, 
sprinkle Avith granulated sugar, shape with cooky cutter, 
and bake ten minutes. Save all trimmings until the last. 
Do not mix trimmings with fresh dough. 

Sand Cookies 
I cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 2 teaspoons cinnamon mixed with 

^ teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons sugar 

^ cup blanched almonds 

Mix as sugar cookies ; roll ; shape with doughnut cutter; 

brush with water or white of egg ; sprinkle with cinnamon 

mixture. Decorate with halves of almonds. Bake in a 

quick oven. 

Nut Cookies 

I cup butter i teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup chopped nut meats 

flavoring 

Mix like Sugar Cookies. Add nuts ; drop from a tea- 
spoon on to buttered sheet. Decorate with halves of nuts. 
Bake in quick oven. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FEOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 261 

Bangor Brownies 

I cup butter 3 squares chocolate 

1 cup brown sugar i to f cup flour 

1 egg 1 cup nut meats 

I teaspoon salt 

Put all ingredients in bowl and beat until well mixed. 

Spread evenly in buttered baking pan. Bake and cut in 

strips. 

Creoles 

3 eggs I teaspoon salt 

1| cups brown sugar IJ cups pecan nut meats 

I cup of flour few grains cayenne 

Mix all ingredients in bowl ; beat well. Fill small but- 
tered fluted tins one half full. Decorate with pecans. 
Bake twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Hermits 

f cup butter 2| cups flour 

1 cup brown sugar | teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

f teaspoon soda \ teaspoon each, clove, mace and 

1 tablespoon hot water nutmeg 

1 cup raisins 

Mix ingredients in order given. Roll mixture one 
quarter inch thick. Shape with cooky cutter. Put one 
raisin in center of each round. Bake in moderate oven 
twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Chocolate Wafers 

I cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1^ cups flour 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium Chocolate, melted 

Mix in the order given. Beat well. Pour into buttered 
pans in thin layers. Bake in quick oven six to eight 
minutes. Cut in long narrow strips while hot, and serve 
cold. 



262 LOJVNET'S COOK BOOK 

Wafers 

I cup butter If cup flour 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

I cup milk i teaspoon salt 

Cream the butter and add other ingredients. Spread 
on inverted buttered tins. Bake in quick oven, cut in 
squares, and roll. If this is done on top of the range, there 
will be less danger of the wafers breaking. 

Nut Wafers 

Sprinkle finely chopped nuts on the wafers just before 

baking. 

Chocolate Jumbles 

^ cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 2 cups flour and enough more flour 

Chocolate, grated to roll out. 

1 tablespoon milk 

Mix in the order given, toss on to a floured board, and 
roll to an inch in thickness. Cut out with a doughnut 
cutter. Just before putting into the oven, dust over with 
granulated sugar and bake ten minutes. See colored illus- 
tration, Plate XIII, ojDposite. 

Chocolate Walnut Wafers 

I cup butter ^ cup milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup flour 

2 squares Lowney's Premium ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate, grated 1 cup chopped walnuts 

^ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add dry ingredients, milk and flavoring. 
Spread on inverted pans which have been well buttered. 
Sprinkle with chopped nuts. Bake in moderate oven. 
Crease immediately on removing from oven. See colored 
illustration, Plate XIV, opposite. 




CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 
Plate XIII. For Recipe see page 262 




CHOCOLATE WALNUT WAFERS 
Plate XIV. For Recipe see page 262 




LOWNEY'S CHOCOLATE HERMITS 
Plate XV. For Recipe see page 263 




CHOCOLATE SWEDISH MERINGUES 
Plate XVI. For Recipe see page 263 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 263 

Lowney's Chocolate Hermits 

^ cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 eggs \ cup Lowney's Always Ready 
^ cup raisins seeded Chocolate Powder 

I teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream butter ; acid sugar, eggs, raisins, flour in which 
baking powder has been sifted, chocolate melted in water, 
salt and cinnamon. Drop from a teaspoon on to a but- 
tered baking sheet, put a raisin in the center of each her- 
mit, and bake in a moderate oven. See colored illustra- 
tion, Plate XV, opposite. 

Chocolate Swedish Meringues 

5 egg whites I cup Lowney's Cocoa 

I teaspoon cream of tartar | cup flour 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the whites of eggs until foamy; add cream of tartar, 
sugar and cocoa. Continue beating until spoon will stand 
up in mixture ; add vanilla and fold in the flour. Bake in 
buttered shallow pans in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. Put cakes together with following filling, and 
decorate top with filling and candied fruit and nuts. 

Filling 

Melt one half pound marshmallows. Cook one cup sugar 
and one third cup boiling water until, when dropped from 
tip of a spoon, a thread is formed. Pour slowly on to melted 
marshmallows, add one half teaspoon vanilla, and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Put between and on top of cakes. 
Sprinkle with chopped nuts, raisins, cherries and angelica. 
This may be made in one large cake or cut in small ones 
the shape of dominoes and decorated in the same way. 
See colored illustration, Plate XVI, opposite. 



264 lowney's cook book 

Cornucopias 

Shape wafers as soon as taken from the oven. Fill with 
whipped cream, or cream fillings of various flavors. 

Chocolate Dominoes 

I cup chopped walnut meats 2 squares Lowney's Premium Choc- 

I cup choi^ped figs elate, melted 

\ cup ahiiond paste \ teaspoon salt 

grated rind of orange orange juice 

sugar 

Mix the ingredients with enough orange juice to make 
the mixture of the consistency to spread. Knead on a 
sugared board. Cut in shape of dominoes, coat with 
melted chocolate, and decorate with pieces of almonds. 

Chocolate Angelettes 

4 egg whites 4 tablespoons Lowney's Always 

\ teaspoon cream of tartar Ready Chocolate Powder 

\ cup sugar \ cup flour 

\ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

confectioners' sugar 

Beat whites ; add cream of tartar and sugar, and con- 
tinue beating. Cut and fold in salt, chocolate, flour. 
Flavor and drop by spoonfuls on to a buttered sheet ; 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Cookies 

\ cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 Qgg \ teaspoon salt 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 4 tablespoons milk 
Chocolate 

Cream butter ; add remaining ingredients. Chill, roll, 
and shape. Bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 265 

Chocolate Macaroons 

^ pound almond paste 2 squares Lowney's Premium Choc- 

f pound powdered sugar olate 

3 egg whites I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix almond paste and sugar, until the mixture feels like 
meal ; add whites of eggs, one at a time, and work with a 
spatula until there are no lumps ; add chocolate, salt and 
vanilla. Drop from a teaspoon on to a buttered paper ; 
bake twenty to thirty minutes in a slow oven. Remove 
from paper as soon as cooked. If baked in a quick oven, 
they will not be a success. 

Cocoa Cocoanut Cookies 

3 eggs I cup Lowney's Always Ready 

1 cup sugar Chocolate Powder 

^ cup heavy cream 2| cups flour 

I cup shredded cocoanut 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix ingredients in order given. Chill, roll J inch thick, 
and shape with cooky cutter. Bake in moderate oven. 

Lowney's Brownies 

I cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar ^ cup nut meats 

2 squares Lowney's Premium | cup flour 

Chocolate i teaspoon salt 

Cream butter, add remaining ingredients, spread on 
buttered sheets, and bake ten to fifteen minutes. Cut in 
squares as soon as taken from oven. 

Mushroom Meringue 

Make a round of meringue mixture size of a quarter. 
Shape stems by drawing mixture upward. Sprinkle tops 
with cocoa. Bake in moderate oven. Remove from paper 



266 lowney's cook book 

and press stems into bottom of rounds to resemble mush- 
rooms. 

Macaroons 

1 cup almond paste 3 egg whites 

1 cup powdered sugar ^ teaspoon almond extract 

Mix almond paste and sugar until like meal. Add 
one egg white at a time and mix thoroughly. When well 
blended, shape on buttered paper in small rounds. Bake 
on inverted dripping pan in a very slow oven. Remove 
from paper immediately. 

Doughnuts 

1^ cups sugar 1 cup milk 

2 egg yolks 4| cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

few gratings of nutmeg 

Beat eggs ; add sugar, dry ingredients sifted, and milk. 
Beat well. Add flour to make a soft dough. Chill over 
night if possible. 

Roll to one inch thickness ; cut with doughnut cutter ; 
fry in hot fat, turning often. Drain on brown paper. 

Crullers 

Add to doughnut mixture two tablespoons butter. 
Roll one quarter inch thick. Cut in pieces four inches 
long and two inches wide. Make two slits in each, twist 
slightly, and fry in hot fat. 

Hard Gingerbread 

1^ cups butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2| cups sugar ^ cup milk 

6 eggs 3 teaspoons ginger 

8 cups flour 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBO STINGS AND FILLINGS 267 

Cream butter ; add remaining ingredients. Spread 
quarter inch thick on buttered inverted dripping pan. 
Roll with creased rolling pin. Bake in quick oven. Cut 
in squares. Cool and keep in air-tight receptacles. 

Molasses Drops 

\ cup. butter^ \ teaspoon salt 

"I cup boiling water 1 tablespoon ginger 

I cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda flour 

Pour boiling water over butter ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents, using sufficient flour to make a drop batter. Drop 
from tablespoon on to buttered tin. Bake in moderate 
oven fifteen minutes. 

New York Gingerbread 

f cup butter If cups powdered sugar 

1^ cups flour 1 tablespoon yellow ginger 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

\ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add flour. Add remaining ingredients 
and beat ten minutes. Bake in buttered bread pan forty- 
five to sixty minutes. 

Meringues 

1 cup egg whites 1 cup fine granulated sugar 

\ teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Add salt to eggs ; beat until very stiff. Add two table- 
spoons sugar, beat five minutes. So continue until half 
the sugar is used. When very stiff, cut and fold in the 
remaining sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to wet paper on 
inverted dripping pan. Bake in slow oven thirty minutes. 
Remove from paper ; take out uncooked portion ; dry in 
oven. Cool and fill with whipped cream or ice cream. 
Arrange in pairs. 



268 lowney's cook book 

Superior Gingerbread 

I cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup molasses IJ teaspoons soda 

1 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon grated orange peel 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix ingredients in order given. Beat well and bake in 
loaf thirty minutes, or in muffin pans twenty minutes. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

1 cup sour milk 2 teaspoons ginger 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons soda 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredients, 

beat well, pour into buttered pan, and bake twenty to thirty 

minutes. 

Hot Water Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses 2 to 4 tablespoons butter or beef 

2 cups flour suet 

1 teaspoon soda i cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon ginger 5 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add remaining ingredients. 
Bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 cup molasses 3 cups flour 

J to ^ cup butter, suet, or ^ teaspoon soda 

chicken fat 1 tablespoon ginger 

2 teaspoons salt 

Boil shortening and molasses two minutes. Add re- 
maining ingredients, mixed and sifted. Beat well ; chill 
over night. Roll very thin. Shape with knife or cutter. 
Bake on buttered pan in quick oven eight to ten minutes. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 269 

FROSTINGS 

Cocoa Frosting 

1 cup confectioners' sugar I cup Lowney's Cocoa 

1 egg white 1 tablespoon cream or milk 

1 teaspoon flavoring 1 teaspoon butter 

Beat white of egg, sugar and cocoa for live minutes. 
Add flavoring, milk and melted butter. Spread on cake, 
when cool. 

Cocoa Frosting No. 2 

1 cup confectioners' sugar J cup Lowney's Cocoa 
4 tablespoons strong coffee ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix cocoa and sugar ; add hot coffee. Stir over fire five 
minutes. Add salt and spread on cake. 

Rich Chocolate Frosting 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 teaspoons butter 

Chocolate i cup milk 

^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon sherry wine, or 

i teaspoon vanilla 

Mix chocolate, add other ingredients, and cook until, 
when dropped in water, a soft ball is formed. 

Chocolate Frosting No. 2 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon melted butter 

Chocolate 1 egg yolk 

^ cup cream 2 cups confectioners' sugar 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add other ingredients, and spread on 
cake. One cup chopped Avalnuts makes a chocolate walnut 
frosting. 

Note. — Confectioners' sugar varies in thickening properties. 
Should this frosting be too thick, dilute with a small quantity of hot 
water or milk. 



270 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Boiled Frosting No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 Qgg white 

1 cup hot water \ teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it threads ; pour on to the 
beaten Qgg white, pouring in a steady stream and very 
slowly, adding, while beating, cream of tartar, lemon 
juice and vanilla ; stir until thick. Spread on cold cake. 

Boiled Frosting No. 2 

1 cup sugar 2 Qgg whites 

i cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Follow rule for cooking Boiled Frosting No. 1. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. i 

1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoon flavoring extract 

1 Qgg white J teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix ingredients and beat until thick. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. 2 

Same ingredients as Confectioners' Frosting No. 1, 
omitting vanilla, and flavoring with strawberry, raspberry, 
or orange juice. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. 3 

3 tablespoons milk, cream, or confectioners' sugar 

boiling water flavoring extract 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Add sufficient sugar to liquid to make of consistency to 
spread ; add flavoring and use. 

Caramel Frosting No. i 

1 cup brown sugar Jew grains salt 

\ cup cream 3 tablespoons caramelized sugar 



CAKE AXD COOKIES; FIWSTINGS AND FILLINGS 271 

Boil sugar and cream till it begins to thread ; add 
caramelized sugar and spread. 

Caramel Frosting No. 2 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup thin cream few drops vanilla 

Mix ingredients except vanilla, and boil without stir- 
ring, until a soft ball can be formed ; add vanilla. Beat 
until creamy. Spread. 

Chocolate Frostings 
See page 269. 

Coffee Frosting 
Confectioners' Frosting No. 1 2 tablespoons black coffee 

Follow directions for Confectioners' Frosting No. 1. 

Fudge Frosting 

2 tablespoons butter 2 squares chocolate 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

^ cup milk 

Cook sugar, milk and chocolate six minuses ; add 
butter; cook six minutes ; add vanilla, and beat until of 
consistency to spread. 

Fudge Nut Frosting 

Add one cup shredded nuts to Fudge Frosting, just 
before removing from fire. 

Gelatine Frosting 

1 teaspoon gTanulated gelatine J cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon cold water confectioners' sugar 

1 teaspoon vaniUa 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; add boiling water, stir 
until dissolved ; add sugar until of consistency to spread. 
Flavor and use. 



272 lowney's cook book 

Cocoanut Frosting 

Use rule for Fudge Frosting ; add one cup shredded 
cocoanut. 

Maple Frosting 

1 cup maple sugar 1 egg white 

1 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

Boil sugar, water and creani of tartar until thread is 
formed. Pour on to the beaten white, and continue beat- 
ing until of consistency to spread. 

Marshmallow Frosting 

1 cup sugar J pound marshmallow 

^ cup hot water white of one egg 

1 teaspoon vaniUa 

Melt marshmallows in double boiler. Cook sugar and 
water until thread is formed. Pour on to the beaten 
white. Add melted marshmallows, flavoring, and beat 
until of consistency to spread. 

Marshmallow Nut Frosting 

Add one cup shredded walnuts or castanas to Marsh- 
mallow Frosting. 

Marshmallow Tutti-frutti Frosting 

Add one cup mixed candied fruit and nuts to Marsh- 
mallow J'rosting. 

Orange Frosting 

confectioners' sugar 2 egg yolks 

4 tablespoons orange juice grated rind one orange 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Soak rind in fruit juice one half hour; strain ; add re- 
maining ingredients until of consistency to spread. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 273 

Nougat Frosting 

1 cup chopped almonds 1 cup sugar 

4 tablespoons sugar ^ cup boiling water 

2 egg whites 

Brown almonds in oven. Caramelize four tablespoons 
sugar, add almonds, cool, and pound. Boil sugar and 
water until it threads, add almond powder, pour on to the 
beaten whites, and beat until thick enough to spread. 

Fig Frosting 

To Confectioners' Frosting No. 1 add one cup figs 
which have been boiled in one half cup water until tender, 
and chopped until fine. 

Wine Frosting 

To Boiled Frosting No. 2 add one tablespoon Madeira 
or sherry wine, and omit vanilla. 

Fondant 

3 cups sugar I teaspoon cream of tartar 
li cups water flavoring 

Boil sugar and water until a soft ball can be formed. 
Wash sides of saucepan with moist cheese cloth, as fast as 
the sugar crystallizes. Pour on to marble. When it 
begins to harden, work with a spatula until creamy. 
Chill, flavor, melt, and use for frosting. 

Ornamental Frosting 

4 egg whites confectioners' sugar 
2 tablespoons lemon juice flavoring 

To egg whites add three tablespoons sugar. Beat five 
minutes, add sugar in small quantities, beating five 
minutes between each addition. Continue thus until 
frosting is stiff enough to spread. Use pastry bag and 
tube to decorate cake with this frosting. 



274 lowney's cook book 

Brown Sugar Frosting 

1 cup brown sugar 2 egg whites 

I cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Make the same as Boiled Frosting. 

Marshmallow Frosting No. 2 
Boiled Frosting | pound marshmallows 

Heat marshmallows in oven ; when puffed arrange on top 
of cake and pour Boiled Frosting over them. 

Mocha Frosting 

I cup butter 2 eggs 

1\ cups confectioners' sugar 1| cups scalded milk 

I cup flour I cup strong coffee 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 squares chocolate (melted) 

I teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter; add confectioners' sugar. Beat eggs; add 
granulated sugar, flour, salt, milk, coffee and chocolate. 
Cook in double boiler ten minutes; cool, flavor, and add to 
creamed butter. Use for filling and frosting for mocha 
cakes. 

FILLINGS 
Rich Chocolate Filling 

5 egg yolks 3 ounces Lowney's Premium 

1 cup sugar Chocolate 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons boiling water 
2 cups milk I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate; add hot water; Mix sugar and corn- 
starch, add yolks of eggs and milk, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add 
flavoring, salt and chocolate mixture. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 275 

Simple Chocolate Filling 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 teaspoons butter 

Chocolate 1 egg 

3 tablespoons milk I teaspoon salt 

I cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla, or 

1 tablespoon wine 

Melt chocolate, add remaining ingredients except flavor- 
ing, and cook in double boiler until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool and add flavoring. ^ 

One cup chopped nuts or one cup shredded cocoanut or 
one cup mixed fruit may be added to this filling. 

Cocoa Nougat Filling 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

^ cup water 1 cup nut meats, cut very fine 

^ teaspoon cream of tartar ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

1 teaspoon flavoring 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

I teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk 

^ cup heavy cream 

Mix nut meats, egg yolk and powdered sugar; add cream 
beaten until stiff. Boil sugar and hot water until a thread 
is formed. Pour sugar mixture on to slightly beaten white 
of egg; add cream of tartar and flavoring, and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Add nut mixture, beat well, and 
spread over cakes. 

N"oTE. — If this mixture becomes too thick, it may be thinned by 
adding a small quantity of hot water. 

Caramel Filling 

1 cup cream 2 tablespoons butter 

I cup sugar 6 tablespoons caramelized sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook butter, sugar, and cream together until it threads. 
Add caramelized sugar and flavoring. Cool and fill. 



276 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Filling 

1 cup milk 1 cup powdered sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 egg yolks 1 cup grated cocoanut 

juice and rind 1 lemon 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and egg yolks; add milk, butter, 
and cook twenty minutes, stirring occasionally; add lemon 
rind, juice and cocoanut. 

Coffee Filling 

Use rule for Cocoanut Filling, substituting one half cup 
black coffee for cocoanut, omitting lemon, and cooking 
after addition of coffee until mixture thickens. 

Cream Filling 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

I cup cornstarch 1| cups milk 

1 tablespoon butter | teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon flavoring 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and eggs ; add milk and butter ; 
cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 
Cool, add salt, flavoring, and spread between cakes. 

Cura^oa Filling 

Use rule for Cream Filling, adding one tablespoon 

orange curagoa. 

Date Filling 

2 cups dates 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
^ cup beaten cream I cup powdered sugar 

Remove stones and cut dates in small pieces ; add re- 
maining ingredients and spread between cakes. 

Fig Filling 

2 cups figs, chopped 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

i cup boiling water few grains salt 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 277 

Cook ingredients in double boiler until of consistency 

to spread. 

Date and Almond Filling 

1 cup sugar 2 egg whites 

^ cup thin cream 1 cup chopped dates 

I cup chopped almonds 

Boil sugar and cream until it threads. Pour on to the 

whites of eggs ; add chopped dates and almonds. Cool 

and use for filling. 

Maple Filling 

1 cup maple syrup | cup beaten cream 

1 egg white few grains salt 

Boil syrup until it threads; pour on to the beaten white; 
add cream, salt, and beat until thick enough to spread. 

Marshmallow Filling 
^ pound marshm allows 1 egg white 

Melt marshmallows in top of double boiler ; when lique- 
fied, pour on to the beaten white, beat until thick. 

Lemon Filling 

2 egg whites 2 tablespoons boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon cold water 

2 teaspoons gelatine 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

grated rind 1 lemon 

Cover gelatine with cold water ; dissolve in boiling 
water ; add to beaten whites with sugar, rind and juice. 

Nougat Filling 

Boiled Frosting 1 cup chopped nut meats 

1 egg ^ cup powdered sugar 

^ cup cream 

Beat egg ; add powdered sugar, beaten cream and nut 
meats ; add mixture to Boiled Frosting. Beat until thick 
enough to spread. 



278 lowney's cook book 

Nut and Raisin Filling 

1 cup raisins 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup chopped nuts i teaspoon salt 

1 egg white i cup powdered sugar 

Seed raisins and chop until fine ; add chopped nuts. 
Beat egg until stiff ; add sugar, nuts, raisins and lemon 

juice. 

Orange Filling 

Cream Filling 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 

juice and rind one orange 1 teaspoon butter 

I cup orange pulp 

Mix fruit juice and grated rind, butter, cream filling 
and orange pulp. Spread on cake. 

Fudge Filling 

2 cups sugar 4 squares chocolate 
2 cups rich milk 4 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix all ingredients and let stand on back of range until 
mixture liquefies. Boil until a soft ball is formed. Beat 
until creamy. Spread between cakes. 

Nut Fudge Filling 
Add one cup chopped nuts to Fudge Filling. 

* Tutti-frutti Fudge Filling 

Add one and one half cups chopped nuts and candied 
fruits to Fudge Filling. 

Marshmallow Fudge Filling 

Melt one half pound marshmallovzs in double boiler and 
add to Fudge Filling. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 279 

Peach Filling 

1 cup beaten cream 1 cup peach pulp 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

few grains salt 

Mix ingredients, spread between cake. 

Pineapple Filling 

1 cup grated pineapple 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon orange rind sugar 

Mix pineapple, fruit juice and rind, and enough confec- 
tioners' sugar to make of consistency to spread. 



CHAPTER XV 

FROZEN DISHES 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing 

Select a reliable freezer and one which runs easily. 
Keep the gearing well oiled. 

Adjust the freezing can in the freezer, making sure that 
all parts fit and that the crank turns readily. Place ice 
in bag made of ticking or strong sacking, and, with a 
wooden mallet, pound until very fine. Surround the 
freezing can with ice and rock salt, using three measures 
of ice and one of salt, for ice cream and sherbets; two 
measures of ice and one of salt for sorbets, f rappes, etc. ; 
equal measures of ice and of salt for molding and for 
freezing mousses, bombes, and parfaits. 

For freezing ice cream, when the freezing can is cold, 
pour in mixture to be frozen, let stand five minutes, then 
turn the crank slowly for eight or ten minutes, then more 
rapidly until mixture is frozen. Remove dasher, scrape 
cream from sides of freezing can to the middle and press 
down so as to have the cream one solid mass; let stand to 
season, or if to be molded, pack in the mold. 

A one-pound baking powder can makes an excellent 

mold if one has no brick mold. 

280 



FROZEN DISHES 281 

Directions for Molding 

Have the mold chilled ; press the frozen mixture well into 
the sides and bottom of mold, packing solidly until over- 
flowing ; put on cover, making sure that it fits securely ; 
if in doubt, brush with lard or butter. Tie on cover and 
immerse in ice and salt, using equal parts of each ; let stand 
one to three hours, depending upon degree of hardness de- 
sired. Mousses and parfaits are put directly into the mold, 
filled to overflowing, covered according to directions, and 
allowed to stand from four to six hours in ice and salt. 

Frozen desserts are divided into: — 

Philadelphia ice cream, which is cream sweetened, fla- 
vored, and stirred in freezer while freezing; plain ice 
cream, a custard of different degrees of richness, with 
or without cream, and stirred while freezing. 

Mousses, parfaits and biscuits are made with and with- 
out eggs, with beaten or whipped cream, and frozen 
without stirring. 

Water ices are divided into sherbets, frappes, and 
punch, all stirred while freezing. 

Bombes are combinations of ice cream and sherbet, or 
sherbet and charlotte russe mixture. 

Chocolate Fig Ice Cream 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium. Chocolate 1 tablespoon vanilla 

4 cups cream ^ teaspoon salt 

f cup sugar 1^ cups finely chopped figs 

Melt chocolate, add sugar and one half cup cream, cook 
until smooth, add remaining ingredients, and freeze, stir- 
ring occasionally while freezing to keep figs from settling 
to the bottom. 

Note. — If figs are soaked in wine, the flavor of the cream is much 
better, and there is less liability of the figs being lumpy. 



282 lowney's cook book 

Chocolate Philadelphia Ice Cream 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 cup sugar 

Chocolate, or 4 cups light cream 

J cup Lowney's Cocoa i teaspoon salt 

J cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add remaining ingredients, and freeze. 

Chocolate Junket Ice Cream 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 1 junket tablet 

Chocolate 1 tablespoon cold water 

2 cups cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk IJ cups sugar 

Scald milk ; add melted chocolate and sugar ; cook three 
minutes ; cool. When lukewarm, add junket tablet which 
has been dissolved in cold water. Add cream and freeze. 

Two squares of chocolate give a very delicately 

flavored cream. 

Cocoa Frappe 

4 cups milk J tablespoon arrowroot 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate, or 1 tablespoon sherry wine 

^ cup Lowney's Cocoa ^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup sugar 1 inch stick cinnamon 

Mix chocolate, cinnamon, sugar, salt, cornstarch; add 
milk ; cook ten minutes ; add vanilla, sherry, and freeze. 
Serve in frappe glasses, and garnish with cream flavored 
and beaten, and candied cherries. 

Three cups of milk and one cup strong coffee may be 
used instead of all milk. See colored illustration, Plate 

XII, page 251. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

4 cups cream 4 ounces Lowney's Premium 
6 egg yolks Chocolate 

1^ cups sugar I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



FROZEN DISHES 283 

Scald one cup of cream ; add to melted chocolate and 
cook three minutes, or until mixture is smooth and glossy ; 
add sugar, salt, vanilla, and the remaining three cups of 
cream which has been beaten stiff. When well blended, 
add beaten yolks of eggs. Freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream No. 2 



2 ounces Lowney's Premium 


2 eggs 


Chocolate 


^ cup flour 


2 tablespoons sugar 


2 cups milk 


2 tablespoons hot water 


1 cup sugar 


1 pint cream 


\ teaspoon salt 



Beat eggs ; add flour, one cup sugar, and milk ; cook in 
double boiler twenty minutes. Melt chocolate ; add sugar, 
boiling water ; cook until glossy, then add to Qgg mixture ; 
cool ; add cream, salt, and freeze. 

French Ice Cream 

2 cups milk 4 to 6 egg yolks 

2 cups cream " 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 cup sugar \ teaspoon salt 

Make a soft custard of milk, sugar and yolks of eggs. 

When cool, add cream whipped, salt and flavoring. 

Freeze. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

4 cups light cream 1 cup sugar 

3 cups heavy cream and one cup 1 tablespoon flavoring 

milk \ teaspoon salt 

Mix the ingredients and freeze without cooking. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

Add to French Ice Cream one cup brown bread crumbs 

dried. Freeze. 

Banana Ice Cream 

Add the pulp of four bananas and two tablespoons 
lemon juice to Philadelphia Ice Cream. Freeze. 



284 LOWNEY^S COOK BOOK 

Cocoa Ice Cream 

2 cups milk 2 cups cream, or 
1 cup sugar 2 cups milk and 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons butter 

or arrowroot i to ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

4 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

I teas230on salt 

Mix cocoa, sugar, and cornstarch or arrowroot ; add 
scalded milk, and cook twenty minutes in double boiler. 
Beat eggs ; add cream, or milk and butter ; pour on to this 
mixture, cornstarch mixture. Add vanilla and freeze. 

One clip raspberry juice added just before freezing gives 

a pleasant variety. See colored illustration, Plate XVII, 

opposite. 

Chocolate Mousse 

3 ounces Lowney's Premium ^ cup cold water 

Chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

IJ cups sugar I teaspoon salt 

1 cup thin cream whip from 3 cups cream 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar and one cup cream ; boil one 

minute. Mix gelatine with cold water, add to boiling 

mixture ; when cool, add flavoring, salt and whip from 

cream. Pour into mold, pack in equal parts of ice and 

salt, let stand four hours. See colored illustration, Plate 

XVIII, opposite. 

Frozen Chocolate 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 1 cup boiling water 

Chocolate 3 cups scalded milk 

I cup sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

I teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar, salt and boiling water ; cook 
five minutes; add scalded milk and flavoring; when cool, 
freeze. Serve with cream sweetened and flavored, either 
plain or whipped. 



..A 




^•^pysw^g ^ 



COCOA ICE CREAM 
Plate XVII. For Recipe see page 2S4 




CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 
Plate XVI TI. For Recipe see page 284 




FROZEN CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 
Plate XIX. For Recipe see page 285 




VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 
Plate XX. For Recipe see pages 234 and 285 



FROZEN DISHES 285 

Frozen Chocolate Souffle 

2 egg yolks I teaspoon salt 

rind and juice of 1 lemon 2 egg whites 

4 tablespoons sherry wine 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 

J cup sugar Chocolate, melted 

I cup cream 

Cook first five ingredients until mixture thickens ; add 
beaten whites, chocolate, and cream beaten until thick. 
Pour into serving dish, and pack in equal parts of ice and 
salt. Let stand three hours. 

A very good way is to put serving dish in lard pail, 
then surround pail with equal parts of ice and salt. 

See colored illustration, Plate XIX, opposite. 

Plain Ice Cream 

4 cups milk 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

^ teaspoon salt 

Prepare as for Soft Custard. 

This is the simplest and cheapest ice cream made. One 
pint of cream added is an improvement. 

Freeze according to directions for freezing. See col- 
ored illustration, Plate XX, opposite. 

Cocoa Macaroon Ice Cream 

Make a cream the same as for Cocoa Nut Cream, except 
omit the nuts. Brown in the oven two dozen macaroons. 
Crumb in meat chopper; add macaroon crumbs and | cup 
sherry to cream mixture. Freeze. 

Cocoa Cocoanut Cream 

Make a cream the same as for Cocoa Nut Cream, except 
omit the nuts, and add one cup of shredded cocoanut and 
the rind and juice of one lemon. Freeze. 



286 lownet's cook book 

Cocoa Nut Cream Ice 

2 eggs I cup Lowney's Cocoa 

11 cups sugar | teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 1 cup walnuts 

2 cups milk 2 cups cream 

Mix cocoa, flour, sugar and salt; add eggs slightly 
beaten. When well blended, add scalded milk. Cook in 
double boiler, stirring constantly, twenty minutes. Add 
nuts finely chopped, flavoring and cream. Freeze. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream 

Blanch and chop one cup almonds. Caramelize four 
tablespoons sugar; add chopped almonds. When cold, 
pound to a powder. Add to French Ice Cream with one 
teaspoon almond extract. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Add to French Ice Cream, one cup of caramelized sugar. 
Cool and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Add one cup black coffee to French or Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Add one cup preserved ginger chopped fine, two table- 
spoons lemon juice, and three tablespoons ginger syrup 
to Philadelphia or French Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Macaroon Ice Cream 

Add one cup dried and pounded macaroons to French 
or Philadelphia Ice Cream ; flavor with one half teaspoon 
almond extract, one tablespoon sherry, and one half tea- 
spoon vanilla. Freeze. 



FROZEN DISHES 287 

Maple Ice Cream 

Add one cup maple syrup to French or Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze and serve with Maple Sauce. 

Nougat Ice Cream 

Add one half cup each of chopped walnuts, almonds, 

and filberts, to French or Philadelphia Ice Cream. Flavor 

with one teaspoon vanilla and one teaspoon almond. 

Freeze. 

Orange Ice Cream 

Add one cup orange juice and one half cup orange 
pulp to Philadelphia Ice Cream. Flavor with one tea- 
spoon vanilla and one tablespoon lemon juice. Freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream 

Add two cups stcAved and strained peaches to Philadel- 
phia Ice Cream. Flavor with one teaspoon lemon juice. 

Freeze. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Add two cups pineapple juice and pulp to French or 
Philadelphia Ice Cream. Freeze. • 

Pistachio Ice Cream 

Mix one half cup Pistachio nuts chopped fine, and one 

cup almonds chopped fine, with Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Color a delicate green and flavor with one teaspoon almond. 

Freeze. 

Plum Pudding Ice Cream 

To Philadelphia Ice Cream add one cup dried and 
pounded Plum Pudding. Flavor with one tablespoon 
brandy. Freeze. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Add two cups strawberry juice and pulp to Philadel- 
phia Ice Cream. Freeze, and serve with Strawberry Sauce. 



288 lowney's cook book 

Wine Ice Cream 

Add two tablespoons sherry or Madeira to Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Coffee Mousse 

1 pint cream 1 cup black coffee 

J cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture 
into a mold, pack in ice and salt, and let stand five 
hours. 

Chocolate Mousse No. 2 

Substitute four ounces melted chocolate for coffee in 
Coffee Mousse, pour into mold, pack in ice and salt, 
and let stand four hours. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Substitute two cups mashed berries for coffee, and pro- 
ceed as for Coffee Mousse. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix two cups of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to 
sweeten, with the whip from one pint cream. A small 
amount of lemon juice brings out the flavor of other fruits. 
Mold. Pack and let stand in ice and salt four hours. 

Silver Parfait 

1 cup sugar 3 egg whites 

1 cup water 1 pint cream 

flavoring 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the 
beaten whites of eggs, add the whip from cream, flavoring, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand four hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 289 

Cocoa Parfait 

1 cup sugar 4 egg yolks 

J cup boiling water 2 teaspoons vanilla 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Cocoa 2 cups cream 

\ teaspoon salt 

Boil sugar and water together ten minutes; pour syrup 
on to cocoa which has been beaten with the egg yolks ; 
cook over hot water until of the consistency of soft cus- 
tard. Beat until cold ; add the cream which has been 
beaten until stiff, vanilla, and salt. Turn into mold, 
cover, and pack in equal measures of finely crushed ice and 
rock salt. Let stand four hours. Remove from mold 
and garnish with cream, sweetened and flavored, and 
press through the pastry bag. 

The parfait may be served in champagne glasses and 
garnished with beaten cream and candied cherries. See 
colored illustration, Plate XI, page 251. 

Golden Parfait 

1 cup sugar 6 egg yolks 

I cup water 1 pint cream 

Cook sugar and water five minutes. Pour slowly on 
to the beaten egg yolks, add whip from cream, turn into 
mold and pack in ice and salt, and let stand four hours. 

Cafe Parfait 

Add one fourth cup black coffee to Golden Parfait and 
freeze as Golden Parfait. 

Maple Parfait 

Substitute maple syrup for boiled sugar and water in 
Golden Parfait. Mold, pack in ice and salt four hours, 
and serve Avith chopped browned almonds. 



290 lowney's cook book 

Nesselrode Pudding 

To Golden Parfait add one cup boiled chestnuts, mashed, 
one cup candied fruit soaked in wine, one cup chopped 
pineapple. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla, one table- 
spoon sherry. Freeze, pack, mold, and serve with rum 
sauce. 

Biscuit Tortoni 

Mix one cup pounded macaroons, two tablespoons 
sherry, two tablespoons caramelized sugar pounded, with 
Golden Parfait. Pack in paper boxes, pack boxes in pail, 
and pack pail in equal parts ice and salt, for four hours. 
Serve in boxes, sprinkle with brown chopped almonds. 

Biscuit Glace 

Add two tablespoons maraschino, two tablespoons 
sherry, to Golden Parfait. Fill paper boxes, pack boxes 
in pail, pack pail in ice and salt, and let stand in ice and 
salt four hours. 

Souffle Glace 

1 cup cream 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon grated lemon rind ^ cup wine 
4 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix yolks of eggs, lemon juice, rind, sugar and salt. 
Cook until thick. Cool; add beaten whites and cream 
beaten until stiff. Add wine, fill pajjer cases, pack cases 
in pail, and pack pail in ice and salt four hours. 

Plain Water Ice 

2 cups water 4 egg whites 

1 cup sugar flavoring 

Boil sugar and water; beat until cold. Add egg whites 
beaten until stiff and flavoring. Freeze. 



FROZEN DISHES 291 

Lemon Water Ice 

Add the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of three 
lemons to Water Ice. Freeze. 

Orange Water Ice 

Add rind of one orange, one half cup orange juice, two 
tablespoons lemon juice, to Plain Water Ice. 

Pineapple Water Ice 

Add two cups pineapple chopped and pressed through 

a sieve, with two tablespoons lemon juice, to Plain Water 

Ice. 

Lemon Sherbet 

The same as Water Ice, omittiug the whites of eggs. 
All fruit sherbets made in the same way. 

Strawberry Bombe Glace 

Line a mold with Strawberry Ice Cream, fill with 
Pineapple Water Ice. Pack in ice and salt four hours. 
Serve with Strawberry Sauce. 

Raspberry Bombe Glad 

Line a mold with Raspberry Water Ice. Fill with 
Vanilla Ice Cream, or whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. Pack in ice and salt four hours. 

Sultana Roll 

Line sultana roll molds, or one-pound baking powder 
boxes, with Pistachio Ice Cream. Sprinkle with candied 
fruit which has been soaked in brandy over night, and fill 
with Vanilla Ice Cream or with Silver Parfait, or beaten 
cream sweetened and flavored. Pack in ice and salt four 
hours. Serve with Claret Sauce. 



292 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Lalla Rookh 

Use rule for Philadelphia Ice Cream. When frozen add 
one cup Jamaica rum. Serve in glasses. 

Cafe Frappe 

3 cups coffee 1 cup cream 

1 cup sugar | teaspoon salt 

Freeze to consistency of mush. Serve in frappe glasses 
with whipped cream on top. 

Orange Frappe 

1 cup sugar 1 cup orauge juice 

2 cups water pulp of four oranges 

4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredients, 
and freeze to a mush. Serve with orange syrup and 
sprinkle with candied orange peel, finely chopped. 

Grape Frappe 

Substitute one cup grape juice for orange juice, and 
freeze to a mush. 



CHAPTER XVI 
BEVERAGES 

French Chocolate 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups milk scalded 

Chocolate J cup ground coffee 

5 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons brandy 

Melt two squares Lowney's Premium Chocolate, add 
sugar and boiling water, boil two minutes. Scald the milk 
with coffee, strain, and add to chocolate with salt and 
brandy. Beat with Dover egg beater and serve with 
beaten cream. 

Plain Chocolate 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups scalded milk 

Chocolate 1 cup boiling water 

4 tablespoons sugar salt 

Melt two squares Lowney's Premium Chocolate, add 
sugar, salt and boiling water ; boil two minutes, add 
scalded milk and beat with Dover egg beater to prevent 
scum from forming. Serve very hot. 

Emergency Chocolate 

2 teaspoons Lowney's Always | cup boiling water 
Ready Chocolate Powder 1 cup scalded milk 

salt 

Mix two teaspoons Lowney's Always Ready Chocolate 
Powder with boiling water ; boil three minutes, stirring 
all the time ; add scalded milk and cook in double boiler 
ten minutes ; add a few grains of salt and more sugar if 

293 



294 lownet's cook book 

needed ; beat and serve. This may be made without 

cooking so long. 

Condensed Milk Chocolate 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups boiling water 

Chocolate J can condensed milk 

4 tablespoons sugar J teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar, salt, and boiling water in 

which has been mixed the condensed milk. Boil five 

minutes. If condensed milk has been sweetened, omit 

sugar. 

Brandy Cocoa 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 1 tablespoon brandy 
fast Cocoa J cup boiling water 

4 tablespoons sugar 4 cups scalded milk 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix four tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa, four 
tablespoons sugar, and one fourth cup boiling water ; 
when smooth, add four cups scalded milk and cook in 
doable boiler twenty minutes ; add one tablespoon brandy 
and salt ; beat and serve ; garnish with beaten cream. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

2 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 2 tablespoons sugar 
fast Cocoa 2 cups boiling water 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix two tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa, two 
tablespoons sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt ; add two 
cups boiling water gradually ; when smooth, boil five 
minutes ; add two cups scalded milk, beat with a Dover 
egg beater until frothy. 

Breakfast Cocoa with Condensed Milk 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 2| cups boiling water 
fast Cocoa } cup condensed milk 

few grains salt 



BEVERAGES 295 

Mix four tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa with 
one cap boiling water ; boil two minutes ; add one and one 
half cups boiling water which has been mixed with one half 
cup condensed milk and a few grains salt; bring to the 
boiling point and serve with or without whipped cream. 

If condensed milk has not been sweetened, add two 
tablespoons of sugar to the cocoa. 

Tea 

freshly boiled water 1 teaspoon tea for each cup 

Scald an agate-ware teapot ; put in as many teaspoons 
tea as cups required. Cover with as many cups of boil- 
ing water as there are teaspoons of tea. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

Russian Tea 

Prepare tea, serving a thin slice of lemon and sugar 

with each cup. 

Tea Punch 

Prepare tea as for Russian Tea and serve with a thin 
slice of lemon and lump sugar soaked in brandy. 

Iced Tea 
Make tea. Serve in glasses with crushed ice, with one 
tablespoon lemon juice in each glass. 

Boiled Coffee No. i 
1 cup freshly ground coffee 1 cup cold water 

1 whole egg or one egg white 6 cups boiling water 

Mix coffee, egg and one half cup cold water, add boil- 
ing water, boil hard five minutes. Set on back part of 
range, add other half cup of cold water, let stand five 
minutes, and serve with hot milk, cream and sugar. 

Coffee No. 2 
Use rule for Boiled Coffee, using six cups cold water 
instead of boiling water. 



296 lowney's cook book 

Coffee No. 3 
1 cup coffee 6 cups cold water 

Put coffee in cheese cloth bag. Tie, allowing room for 
coffee to swell. Place in scalded coffee pot, cover with 
cold water, and boil ten minutes. Remove bag, let stand 
two minutes on back of range, and serve with hot milk, 
sugar and cream. 

French Coffee 

1 cup very finely ground or 6 cups boiling water 

powdered coffee 

Place coffee in strainer, add boiling water gradually, and 
refilter, if liked very strong. 

Iced Coffee 

Add hot milk to black coffee, flavor with vanilla, and 
sweeten to taste. Chill ; serve in glasses with a tablespoon 
of chopped ice in each glass. 

Black Coffee 

Allow two tablespoons of coffee for each cup of boiling 
water. Always make in French coffee pot. 

After-dinner Coffee 

1 cup coffee 1 egg slightly beaten 

2 ounce chicory 4 cups boiling water 

^ cup cold water 

Mix coffee, chicory, egg and cold water, add boiling 
water, and boil five minutes ; let stand five minutes on back 
of range where it will keep hot. Serve without sugar or 
cream. 

These same ingredients may be used in the French 
coffee pot, and the liquid may be poured through the 
coffee until the required strength is obtained. 



BEVERAGES 297 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Claret Cup t 

1 pint claret 1 cup sherry 

1 cup cnra^oa 1 slice cucumber 

1 cup soda water juice of one orange 

sugar to taste 

Champagne Cup 

2 cups champagne 2 cups Apollinaris 
2 cups soda water ice 

1 bunch mint 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

1 cup sherry 1 slice cucumber 
juice and rind one orange juice of one half lemon 

Cider Cup 

2 cups cider rind of one lemon 

1 cup sherry 1 slice cucumber 

^ cup brandy few gratings nutmeg 

large piece ice sugar 

Lemonade 

Boil two cups of sugar and four cups water until a rich 

syrup is formed. Add one cup lemon juice. Dilute with 

ice water. 

Orangeade 

2 cups sugar -i cup lemon juice 
2 cups water | cup orange juice 

2 oranges sliced 

Make the same as Lemonade. 

Fruit Punch 
Sufficient to serve twenty-five persons. 

4 cups sugar 1 box strawberries hulled 
8 cups water and cut in pieces 

2 quarts Apollinaris 4 bananas cut in slices 

1 pineapple shredded juice of 6 oranges 

1 cup fruit juice juice of 3 lemons 



298 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Boil sugar and water five minutes ; add fruit, ice, Apol- 
linaris, and water to make the punch right strength. 
One cup maraschino cherries may be added. 

Currant Punch 

4 cups currant juice 6 lemons 

4 cups sugar 6 oranges 

12 cups water 2 cups tea 

Boil sugar and water five minutes ; add tea, juice, lemons 
and oranges sliced, and a large piece of ice. 

Milk Punch 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons of sherry, brandy, or 

1 teaspoon sugar Madeira 

few gratings nutmeg 

Put two lumps of ice in glass; add sugar, milk and 
wine ; shake, strain, and add nutmeg. 

Mint Julep No. i 

1 bunch mint juice 6 lemons 

2 cups ice water 2 cups sugar 

4 cups water 

Chop mint ; add ice water ; let stand over night. Boil 
sugar and water ; chill ; add lemon juice and mint water. 
Serve with crushed ice ; garnish with mint leaves. 

Mint Julep No. 2 

Put three sprigs mint with one half teaspoon orange 
bitters in a glass ; add one sherry glass Vermouth and one 
half cup whiskey; shake well; add one half cup crushed 
ice, stir to crush the mint. Add two slices orange, two 
or three strawberries, and a few sprigs of mint. Add 
more ice and serve when the outside of the glass is 
frosted. 



CHAPTER XVII 
FRUITS AND NUTS AND CANDY 

Fruits and Nuts 

Fruit is especially wholesome, although not nutritious. 
The best time to eat fruit is in the morning. Most fruits 
are improved in flavor by being chilled. 

A dish of different fruits attractively arranged makes a 
very acceptable center piece. 

To prepare Fruit for the Table 

Apples should be washed and wiped dry. Berries 
should be looked over very carefully, and, if dirty, washed 
by putting in a colander and allowing cold water to run 
gently over them, or place the colander in a bowl of cold 
water and raise up and down several times, then drain 
thoroughly and chill before serving. 

Cherries should be looked over, and served with their 
stems on. 

Bananas should be wiped and chilled. 

Currants should be washed and drained, and served on 
the stem. 

Figs, if the dried ones, should be washed, drained, and 
chilled. 

Grape fruit should be cut in halves, the pulp loosened 
from the skin, and the pith cut out, then chilled; it may 
be served plain, or sugar and wine may be poured over it 
just before chilling. Serve one half grape fruit to each 
person. 

Grapes should be washed if dirty, but the bloom is then 

299 



300 lowney's cook book 

lost; if picked on one's own vines, it may not be necessary 
to wash them ; but when bought in the market, it is better 
to wash and drain, and chill them. 

Peaches and plums should be wiped with a soft cloth, 
and chilled before serving. 

Quinces are never served raw. 

Strawberries are often served with their hulls on around 
a mound of sugar ; but if they are to be served with sugar 
and cream, of course they must be hulled and chilled. 

Oranges may be chilled and served in the natural state; 
or prepared the same as grape fruit, and one half served to 
each person ; or peeled and the sections almost, but not 
quite, separated ; or the orange may be cut in the shape of 
a basket, the pulp removed, the membrane cut off, and the 
basket refilled with the pulp, which may be sweetened or 
not. 

Pineapples may be served in various ways; perhaps the 
most popular way is to cut off a slice from the top of the 
pineapple, then scoop out the center with a fork, and 
return pulp to pineapple, put on cover, chill, and serve. 

Pineapples may be cut in slices, the outer skin be 
removed, and the tough pith taken out, then serve one or 
two slices to each person. 

If the pineapples are not fully ripe, it is better to re- 
move the skin, pull the pulp in pieces with a fork, then 
cover with sugar, and chill over night. 

Pears should be carefully wiped and chilled before 
serving. 

Melons should be thoroughly chilled. Cantaloupes 
should be cut in halves, have the seeds removed, and serve 
one half to a person. Watermelons should be cut in 
halves, then each half cut in pie-shaped pieoes; serve one 
piece to a person. 

Nuts are ordinarily served only at dinner. Hard-shelled 



FRUITS AND NUTS AND CANDY 301 

nuts should be cracked, served in the shell, or without the 
shell. 

Almonds are cracked, and a portion of the shell dis- 
carded, or they may be blanched and salted, and served 
with the bonbons. 

Pecans, filberts, peanuts and walnuts are treated in the 
same way as almonds. 

Castaiias or Brazilian nuts are cracked and served in the 
shell. 

CANDY 
Butter Scotch No. i 

3 cups brown sugar J teaspoon soda 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon flavoring 

2 tablespoons butter few grains salt 

Boil all ingredients until a thread is formed when 
dropped from a spoon. Pour into hot buttered pans, 
crease, and let stand until hard. 

Butter Scotch No. 2 

1 cup brown sugar ^ teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses 1 tablespoon vinegar 

^ cup butter few grains salt 

Cook in the same way as Butter Scotch No. 1. 

Butter Taify 

1 cup molasses | cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 cup butter few grains salt 

Cook all ingredients until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Pour into hot buttered pans, crease, and cool. 

Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 



302 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Cook sugar, water and cream of tartar until brittle 
when tried in cold water ; add vanilla ; pour on to greased 
platter or marble. Pull as soon as it can be handled. 

Cocoanut Candy 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

J cup cream 1 cup cocoanut 

Cook sugar and cream twelve minutes ; add butter and 
cocoanut. Pour into greased pans, crease, and cool. 

Buttercups 

2 cups molasses 1 cup brown sugar 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup boiling water 

Cook all ingredients until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Pour on to hot buttered platter ; pull when cool 
enough to handle ; shape in a sheet two inches wide, 
cover with a layer of fondant, then with a layer of 
molasses candy, press together and cut in inch pieces. 

Molasses Candy 

2 cups molasses 1 cup water 

2 cups brown sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

i cup vinegar salt 

Boil ingredients until brittle when tried in cold water. 
Pour into hot buttered pan; pull when cool enough to 
handle. 

Maple Sugar Candy 

1 cup maple sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

^ cup water salt 

flavoring 

Boil until brittle, pour into greased pan, crease, and 
cool. One cup nut meats may be added just before pour- 
ing into pans. 



FBUITS AND NUTS AND CANDY 303 

Peanut Brittle 
2 cups sugar 2 cups shelled peanuts 

Melt sugar; when a golden brown, add chopped nuts; 
pour into hot buttered pan, crease, and cool. 



CHAPTER XVIir 
PRESERVING 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Canned fruits are now more popular with most people 
than preserved fruits. 

The expense in preparing them is less, and the natural 
flavor is retained. 

To prepare fruit for canning, look over carefully, reject 
imperfect fruit, and be sure that the fruit is clean. 

The fruit may be cooked in a saucepan with just enough 
sugar to make it palatable and water to keep the fruit from 
burning and transferred to sterile jars ; or it may be put 
into sterile jars in the first place, and cooked by steam, — 
the latter method preserves the color and flavor better. 

To sterilize- jars, put jars into cold water, bring water 

to the boiling point, and boil ten minutes ; fill jars with 

cooked fruit, and pour in syrup to overflowing; adjust 

rubbers and covers. Invert and let stand on folded cloth 

until cold ; if there are no air bubbles, place jars in a cool 

dark closet to keep. If air bubbles are present, take off 

cover, reheat, and add more hot syrup and proceed as 

before. 

Canned Apples 

4 pounds apples 2 pints water 

1 pound sugar juice and rind of 2 lemons 

Pare and core the apples ; cover with cold water. Boil 
sugar and water five minutes ; add apples and simmer until 
tender ; add lemon juice and rind ; place apples in sterilized 

304 



PRESERVING 305 

jars; fill to overflowing with syrup; adjust rubbers and 

covers ; set in a cool place until cool then keep in dark 

dry closet. 

Canned Apples and Pineapple 

4 pounds apples 2 pounds sugar 

4 pounds pineapple 2 pints water 

rind of 4 lemons 

Pare, core, and cut the apples in rings. Cut pineapple 
in slices, remove skin and eyes, and cut pulp into squares, 
being careful to reject the core. Boil sugar and water 
five minutes ; add pineapple ; cook until tender ; then cook 
apples until tender ; add lemon rind ; fill jars which have 
been sterilized with apple and pineapple, adjust rings, fill 
jars with syrup, adjust covers, seal. 

Canned Blackberries 
4 quarts blackberries 2 pints sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let stand 
several hours, then cook slowly until the boiling point is 
reached ; boil five minutes ; fill sterilized jars and seal. 

Canned Blueberries 

Blueberries are canned the same as Blackberries, allow- 
ing one half cup water for every four pounds of blueberries. 

Canned Cherries 
4 pounds cheiTies 1 to 2 pounds sugar 

Stone the cherries or not as preferred. Place sugar and 
cherries in preserving kettle, let stand two hours. Cook 
until tender, fill sterilized jars, and seal. 

Canned Currants 
4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

Wash, stem, and cover currants with sugar; let stand in 
preserving kettle over night. Cook slowly untiF boiling 
point is reached, skim, fill sterilized jars, and seal. 



306 LOWJSfEY'S COOK BOOK 

Canned Gooseberries 
4 pounds gooseberries 2 pounds sugar 

Stem and wash gooseberries, cover with sugar, and let 
stand over night; if green, add one quarter cup water; 
bring quickly to boiling point, fill jars, and seal. 

Canned Huckleberries 

Huckleberries are canned in the same way as Black- 
berries. 

Canned Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 2 pounds sugar 

1 pint water 

Pare peaches and cook in sugar and water, either whole 
or in halves, until tender. Arrange in jars, fill with 
syrup, and seal. 

Pears, pineapples, and plums are canned in the same 
way as peaches. 

Canned Quinces 

4 pounds quinces 2 pounds sugar 

1 pint water 

Cook sugar and water until syrupy. Pare and quarter 
quinces; let stand in cold water. Cook in boiling w^ater 
until tender, then cook in sugar and water syrup five 
minutes. Arrange quinces in jars, fill with syrup, and seal. 

Canned Quinces and Apples 

4 pounds quinces 2 pounds sugar 

2 pounds apples 1 quart water 

Pare and quarter quinces and apples, let stand in cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Cook in boiling water 
until tender, then simmer in sugar and water syrup ten 
minutes. Arrange fruit in jars, fill with syrup, and seal. 



PRESERVING 307 

Canned Raspberries 

4 poimds raspberries 2 pounds sugar 

Arrange berries and sugar in alternate layers in glass 
jars; set jars on trivet in large boiler two thirds full of 
water; cover and cook until the water in boiler boils 
vigorously. Remove jar; if berries have settled, refill 
from another jar, and seal. 

Canned Strawberries 
Prepare in the same way as Canned Raspberries. 

Canned Beans 

Prepare string beans as for boiling. Cook in water one 
half hour. Fill sterilized jars with beans, adjust rubbers, 
fill with cold water, and put on covers. Arrange on rack in 
boiler, fill boiler two thirds full with water, cover boiler, 
and boil hard two hours. Seal and remove jars. 

Canned Corn 

Cut fresh young corn from the cob. Pack sterilized 
jars to overflowing with corn. Seal, set on trivet in 
boiler, surround with cold water, and boil five or six 
hours, having boiler covered all of the time. Keep in 
dark, cool place. 

Canned Peas 

Cook shelled peas in boiling water one half hour. Fill 
sterilized jars with cooked peas, then pour in cold water 
until jar will hold no more. Set jars on trivet in boiler, 
surround jars with cold water, cover boiler, and boil four 
hours. Seal, and keep in cool place. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Remove skins from tomatoes ; boil hard twenty minutes ; 
fill sterilized jars, being careful to keep seeds away from 
rubbers. Seal, and keep in cool place. 



308 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Preserving 

Equal weights or amounts of fruit and sugar are used 
in preserving. 

Select perfect fruit, weigh or measure absolutely ac- 
curately, and always cook the fruit long enough to kill all 
life, — small fruits, one hour, and large fruits until thor- 
oughly tender. 

Preserved Apples 

4 pounds apples 4 pounds sugar 

3 cups water rind and juice of 6 lemons 

Wash, pare, and quarter apples ; keep in water until 
ready to use. Cook sugar and water five minutes ; add 
apples, cook until tender ; add lemon juice and rind. Fill 
jars with apples, then with syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Crab Apples 

4 pounds crab apples 4 pounds sugar 

4 cups water juice of 4 lemons 

Wash crab apples, and cook in sugar and water syrup 
until tender ; add lemon juice, fill jars with fruit, then 
with syrup, and seal. 

The fruit is much more attractive if the skin is left on, 
but may be removed if preferred. 

Preserved Blackberries 
4 pounds blackberries 4 pounds sugar 

Look over berries and wash. Cover with sugar and 
let stand two hours. Simmer until the boiling point is 
reached, boil one minute ; cool, bring to the boiling point 
again, boil one minute ; fill jars first with fruit, then with 
juice, and seal. 

Preserved strawberries, raspberries, thimbleberries, and 
gooseberries are prepared in the same way. 



PRESERVING 309 

Preserved Cherries 
4 pounds cherries 4 pounds sugar 

Wash cherries ; remove stems and stones. Cover cher- 
ries with sugar, let stand two hours ; then set on stove, 
and bring slowly to the boiling point ; cook until cherries 
are tender. Fill jars first with cherries, then with syrup ; 
seal. 

Preserved currants and huckleberries are prepared in 
the same way. 

Preserved Citron 

4 pounds citron 4 pounds sugar 

4 cups water 

Wash citron, cut in halves, remove seeds ; cut each half 
into eighths, cover with salt, then with water ; let stand 
over night, then drain. Cover with cold water, let stand 
over night. Drain, remove skin, and cook in syrup of 
sugar and water until citron is tender. Remove each 
piece carefully to a platter. When cool, fill jars with 
citron, and then with boiling syrup. Seal. 

If the citron lacks flavor, the juice and rind of four 
lemons and a small piece of ginger root may be boiled 
with the syrup. 

If the citron is placed in the jars while it is hot, the 
pieces will not keep their shape. 

Preserved Peaches 
4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

Pare, cut in halves, and take out stones. Arrange 
peaches and sugar in layers in preserving kettle ; let stand 
over night. In morning simmer until peaches are tender ; 
fill jars with fruit, boil syrup five minutes, fill jars with 
syrup, and seal. 



310 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Preserved Pineapple 
Prepare in the same way as Preserved Peaches. 

Preserved Pears 

4 pounds pears 4 pounds sugar 

2 cups water 

Wash, pare, and cut pears in halves. Put in cold water. 
Make a syrup of sugar and water; cook only enough pears 
to fill a jar at a time ; when tender fill jars with fruit, then 
with syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Apricots 

Prepare in the same way as Preserved Pears. 

Preserved Plums 

4 pounds plums 4 pounds sugar 

damsons or green gages or blue plums 

Pick over and prick plums. Arrange alternate layers 
of plums and sugar in bowl, let stand over night ; in the 
morning drain off syrup, boil, and skim ; add plums and 
cook until tender. Cool plums on platter, fill jars with 
plums, then with boiling syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Quinces 

4 pounds quinces 4 pounds sugar 

boiling water 

Wash, wipe, pare, core, and cut quinces in quarters. 
Put in preserving kettle, cover with boiling water. Sim- 
mer until tender. Cool on platters. Mix sugar with one 
pint of water in which quinces have been cooked ; boil ten 
minutes. Add quinces a few at a time, cover kettle, and 
cook slowly until quinces are of a rich red color. Fill jars 
with quinces, then with boiling syrup, and seal. 

One half quinces and one half apples may be used in 
this recipe. 



PBESERVING 311 

Preserved Green Tomatoes 

4 quarts green tomatoes 4 pounds sugar 

4 lemons 1 inch ginger root 

^ cup cold water 

Wash tomatoes and cut in slices ; add sliced lemons, 
sugar, water and ginger root. Simmer two hours, cool, 
then simmer two hours more. Pour into jars and seal. 

Preserved Ripe Tomatoes 

Prepare in same manner as Preserved Green Tomatoes, 
except that the tomatoes must have skins removed before 
slicing them. 

Brandied Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

2 cups water 2 cups brandy- 

Cut peaches in halves, remove stones, and cook in sugar 
and water syrup five minutes ; take out, remove skins, and 
cook again in syrup five minutes. Remove kettle from 
range, and let peaches stand in syrup over night. In 
morning reheat, pack peaches in jars, and fill jars with an 
equal quantity of syrup and brandy. Seal. 

Brandied Plums 

Prepare in the same manner as Brandied Peaches, but 
prick plums with knitting needle several times before 
cooking. 

Peach Butter 

1 peck peaches 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 quarts cider boiled sugar 

Pare and cut peaches in small pieces ; add cider and 
lemon juice, boil until thick, stirring constantly ; add 
sugar, if not sufficiently sweet. Fill jars and seal. 



312 LOWJSTEY'S COOK BOOK 

Grape Butter 

4 pounds grapes 3 cups vinegar 

4 pounds sugar 2 teaspoons each of cloves, nutmeg, 

cinnamon, and allspice 

Cook all together until thick ; press through a sieve to 
remove seeds. Fill glasses and seal. 

Tutti-frutti 

1 pound orange pulp 1 pound raspberries 

1 pound red currants 1 pound pears 

1 pound red cherries 1 pound plums 

1 pound bananas 1 pound peaches 

1 pound pineapple 1 pound strawberries 

1 pound apples 1 pint alcohol 
11 pounds sugar 

Put the orange pulp into an earthen crock ; add one 
pound sugar, and two tablespoons alcohol ; add this 
same amount of sugar and alcohol every time a pound of 
fruit is added. Keep covered with a cloth and tight-fit- 
ting cover. 

Apple or Crab Apple Jelly 

Wash and wipe fruit. Remove stems ; cut in pieces, 
put in preserving kettle, nearly cover with cold water ; 
cook very slowly until apples are tender. Pour into jelly 
bag and drain thoroughly, but do not squeeze. Measure 
juice, allow one pound of sugar to every j)iiTLt of juice. 
Boil juice twenty minutes; add sugar which has been 
heated on a platter in the oven ; stir until sugar is dis- 
solved; boil five minutes or until it jellies. Skim when 
necessary. Have jelly glasses standing in hot water; 
pour jelly into them ; let stand until hard and cover first 
with paper or melted paraffin and the tin cover, or paste 
white paper over the glass. Keep all jellies in cool, dry, 
dark place. 



PRESERVING 313 

A rose geranium leaf cooked with the apples. gives a 

pleasant flavor. 

Blackberry Jelly- 
Mash blackberries and squeeze in jelly bag. Measure 

juice, allowing one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. 

Follow directions for Apple Jelly. 

Damson, strawberry, cherry, and raspberry jellies are 

made in the same way. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 cups cranberries 3 cups sugar 

J cup cold water 

Wash cranberries, mash, add water, and boil twenty 
minutes. Press through sieve, add sugar, and cook 
three minutes. Pour into glass and cover. 

Currant Jelly 

Wash and drain currants thoroughly. Do not remove 
stems. Mash a few in the bottom of the kettle. Cook 
until the juice seems to be extracted from the currants, 
and the currants look white. Press through a coarse 
colander, then drip through a jelly bag, but do not 
squeeze. 

Allow one pound sugar for each pint of juice. Boil 
juice twenty minutes. Add hot sugar and boil hard three 
minutes ; skim when necessary. Strain into hot glasses; 
let stand till stiff. Cover. 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly 

Use equal parts of currants and raspberries, and proceed 
as for Currant Jelly. 

Barberry Jelly 

Use two quarts of apples for every four quarts of 
barberries and just enough water to keep berries from 
burning. Follow directions for Currant Jelly. 



314 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Grape Jelly 

Remove stems from grapes. Mash; boil twenty 
minutes; strain, but do not squeeze; proceed as for 
Currant Jelly. Half ripe and half green grapes make the 
best jelly. 

Quince Jelly 

Wipe and cut quinces in thin slices, and follow 
directions for Apple Jelly. 

A delicious jelly is made by using one half quinces and 
one half Porter apples. 

Apple Ginger 

4 pounds sour apples 2 pounds sugar 

4 lemons 1 ounce white ginger root 

Pare, core, and chop apples ; wash, remove seeds, and 
chop lemons ; add sugar and ginger root, and cook very 
slowly six hours. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Chipped Pears 

4 pounds pears 2 pounds sugar 

J pound Canton ginger 4 lemons 

Pare, core, and chip pears ; wash lemons, remove seeds, 
and chop; add chopped ginger and sugar; cook very slowly 
four hours. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Currant and Raspberry Preserve 

4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

4 pounds raspberries 

Remove stems from currants, mash, cook thirty minutes, 
and strain in jelly bag. Cook sugar and juice ten minutes, 
add raspberries, bring to the boiling point, fill jars first 
with berries, then with juice, and seal. 



PRESERVING 815 

Apple Marmalade 

Apples with considerable flavor are best for marmalade. 
Wash, core, and cut apples in slices; put in kettle, add 
enough water to keep apples from burning. Cook slowly 
until mushy, press through a sieve, add equal amounts of 
sugar and apples, and flavor with orange or lemon juice. 
Cook until water is evaporated; fill glasses, and cover. 

All fruits may be made into marmalades by following 
the above directions. If the fruit lacks flavor, lemon 
juice, lemon rind, or ginger root may be cooked with the 
fruit. 

Orange Marmalade No. i 

4 pounds oranges 4 pounds sugar 

boiHng water 

Peel oranges, cut peel in quarters, cover with boiling 
water, and cook until tender. Drain, scrape to remove 
white, and cut scraped peel in shreds. Slice oranges, 
rejecting seeds and stringy portions ; add sugar, cook 
slowly forty minutes; add rind, cook two hours. Pour 
into jars or glasses. 

Orange Marmalade No. 2 

4 pounds oranges 6 pounds sugar 

6 lemons 

Slice oranges and lemons in very thin slices, reject 
seeds, cover with sugar, and cook slowly until of a thick 
consistency, about two hours. Pour into jars or glasses. 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 
4 pounds grape fruit 4 pounds sugar 

Wash grape fruit, slice thinly, remove seeds and pulpy 
portion, add sugar, and cook slowly two or three hours. 
Pour into glasses and cover. 



316 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Peach Marmalade 

4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

juice 2 lemons 

Wipe and cut peaches in halves, remove stones, cut 
peaches in pieces; add sugar and cook slowly two hours; 
add lemon juice. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Quince, apricot, plum, and prune marmalade may be 
made like Peach Marmalade. 

Blackberry Jam 
4 pounds blackberries 2 pounds sugar 

Wash and pick over blackberries, heat, then press 
through a sieve. To this puree add sugar and boil one 
half hour. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Black, Red, and White Currant Jam 
4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

Stem currants, crush slightly; add sugar, let stand over 
night ; in the morning cook slowly one half hour, stirring 
often. Turn into glasses and cover. 

Green or Ripe Grape Jam 

Wash and stem grapes. Separate skins from pulp. 
Cook skins until tender, press through a sieve. Cook 
pulps ten minutes, press through a sieve. Combine purees; 
add one pound of sugar to every quart of puree; boil one 
half hour, stirring often. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Jam 
4 pounds raspberries or strawberries 2 J pounds sugar 

Mash berries; add sugar; cook thirty minutes, stirring 
very often. Pour into glasses and cover. 



PEESEEVING 317 

^ Spiced Currants 

4 pounds ciu'rants 2 pounds brown sugar 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons clove 1 cup vinegar 

Remove stems and wash currants, add remaining ingre- 
dients, and boil twenty minutes. Keep in stone jar. 

Spiced Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 3 pounds brown sugar 

1 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon clove ^ teaspoon cayenne pepper 

Boil sugar and vinegar. Scald peaches, remove skins, 
and cook in syrup. Tie spices in bag and cook with 
peaches. When peaches are tender, pour into stone jars, 
reheat syrup every day for a week, pouring over peaches 
when boiling. 

All kinds of small fruits may be spiced in this manner. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle 

4 quarts green tomatoes 4 cups water 

4 sliced onions 2 pounds brown sugar 

J cup salt 2 cups vinegar 

1 tablespoon each of clove, mus- J teaspoon cayenne 
tard, and cinnamon 

Slice tomatoes, add onions and salt, and let stand twelve 
hours. Drain, add water and two cups vinegar, and boil 
one half hour. Drain, to tomatoes add remaining ingre- 
dients, and cook one half hour. Keep in stone jar in cool, 
dry place. 

PICKLES 

Sweet pickles are prepared from every fruit that can be 
preserved. Spices are generally tied in a muslin bag and 
kept in the pickle jar, and the syrup is rich in order to 
preserve the pickle. Sour pickles should always be cooked 



318 lo}vn:ey's cook book 

in granite or agate ware kettles, and if desired green, put 
on to cook in cold vinegar and brought gradually to the 
boiling point. Alum added to the pickles keeps them 
crisp. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon 

4 cups vinegar 4 tablespoons cinnamon sticks 

8 pounds sugar 4 tablespoons cloves (whole) 

watermelon 

Cut skin from watermelon ; cut rind into small pieces 
about two inches square ; cover with water and cook until 
tender. Boil sugar and vinegar ten minutes ; add spices 
tied in a bag, simmer until syrupy, about two hours; add 
melon and simmer one hour. Fill jars and seal. 

Sweet Pickled Cantaloupe 
Prepare in the same way as Sweet Pickled Watermelon, 
substituting cantaloupe. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle 
Soak the cucumbers in a brine for two weeks ; drain, and 
slice lengthwise. Cook in a syrup made by cooking six 
pounds sugar and four quarts of vinegar; boil twenty 
minutes. Keep in tightly covered crock. 

Pickled Cucumber No. i 

100 small cucumbers 1 quart small peppers 

2 pints salt 8 quarts water 

Boil water and salt together ; pour over cucumbers and 
peppers. Let stand over night, in the morning drain. 
Make a new brine, using same proportion ; repeat this 
process twice, then drain and wash in cold water. Place 
cucumbers and peppers in crock ; cover with boiling 
vinegar. 

Twelve whole cloves and twelve peppercorns may be 
tied in a bag and kept in the pickle jar. 



PRESERVING 319 

Pickled Cabbage 

4 quarts chopped cabbage 1 cup chopped peppers 

2 cups chopped onion salt 

Arrange cabbage, onion, and peppers in layers in an 
earthen crock ; cover each layer with salt. Let stand over 
night ; in the morning drain ; then arrange cabbage, onion, 
and peppers in layers, with cloves and mustard seeds. 
Cover with cider vinegar ; let stand twenty-four hours. 

Pickled Cabbage and Celery 

2 quarts chopped cabbage 2 quarts chopped celery 

1 cup sugar \ cup salt 

\ cup celery seed \ cup mustard seed 

3 quarts vinegar 

Cook all ingredients until cabbage is tender. Keep in 

stone crock. 

Pickled Cucumbers No. 2 

100 cucumbers sliced olive oil 

30 small onions sliced vinegar 

salt mustard seed 

Arrange cucumbers and salt in layers and let stand over 
night. Arrange onions and salt in layers and let stand 
over night. In the morning drain ; put a layer of cucum- 
bers in an earthen crock, cover with olive oil and mustard, 
then a layer of onions, and so continue until all are used. 
Cover whole with cider vinegar ; let stand covered closely 
for two months, when it is ready for use. 

Pickled Tomatoes 

2 quarts chopped tomato 1 cup chopped onion 

2 cups chopped horse-radish ^ cup choj)ped peppers 
2 cups chopped celery J cup mustard seed 

^ cup salt ^ cup brown sugar 

1 tablespoon clove 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

4 cups vinegar 

Mix all ingredients ; stir every morning for a week. 
Keep in a cool, dark place. 



320 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Mustard Pickle 

4 cups vinegar 2 tablespoons turmeric 

\ pound mustard seed 1 pint button onions 

\ pound horse-radish 4 cups sliced cucumbers 

I pound mustard 4 cups sliced green tomatoes 

1 cup brown sugar 4 cups cauliflo\Yer flowerets 

1 cup chopped green pepper 2 tablespoons celery seed 

Boil vinegar, spices, and sugar five minutes, add remain- 
ing ingredients, and simmer until thick. Keep in crock 

in cool place. 

Chow Chow 

1 medium-sized cauliflower 2 cups salt 

12 green peppers 4 cups vinegar 

12 cucumbers (small) 1 teaspoon cayenne 

2 cups small onions 2 quarts boiling water 

3 tablespoons mustard 

Peel onions and cook twenty minutes. Drain and cool. 
Arrange cauliflower, broken in small pieces, cucumbers, 
peppers, and onions in kettle. Cover with brine made of 
salt and water. Let stand two days. Drain thoroughly, 
then cover with vinegar, cayenne, and mustard. Boil 
slowly one hour. Keep in Mason or Lightning jars. 

Piccalilli 

4 dozen small cucumbers 2 heads cabbage 

3 quarts small green string beans 2 heads cauliflower 

4 red peppers 1 teaspoon ginger 
4 green peppers 1 teaspoon pepper 
\ cup mustard seed 1 teaspoon mace 

vinegar 

Tie spices in a muslin bag. Chop the vegetables, cover 
with salt and water, let stand over night. Drain thor- 
oughly, cover with hot vinegar, add spice bag, and let 
stand until the next morning. Reheat vinegar and pour 
over pickles ; do this for three days, then keep in earthen 
crock tightly covered. 



PRESERVING 321 

Pickled Walnuts 

Run a needle through soft walnuts ; cover with strong 
brine of salt and water; let stand in brine for a week, 
draining off brine every day, and covering with fresh 
brine. Then drain and wash walnuts, cover with vinegar, 
boil ten minutes, add a bag of spices, cover closely, and 
keep in cool place three weeks. 

For bag of spices, mix four tablespoons each of cloves, 
peppercorns, mace, celery and mustard seed. 

Chili Sauce 

2 dozen tomatoes finely chopped 1 cup brown sugar 

1 dozen onions finely chopped 3 cups cider vinegar 

1 dozen red peppers finely ^ cup salt 
chopped 

Mix all ingredients, add more salt if needed, and boil 
slowly until thick. Keep in air-tight jars. 

Chutney 

4 cups sliced sour apples 2 onions chopped 

8 cups chopped green tomatoes 4 cups brown sugar 

4 cups chopped raisins 1 quart vinegar 

1 shallot chopped 1 inch ginger root 

J cup salt 1 teaspoon cayenne 

Mix all ingredients and cook gently all day. Cool ; 
then boil hard five minutes, stirring constantly. Fill 
sterilized jars and seal. 

Tomato Ketchup No. i 

24 ripe tomatoes i cup brown sugar 

6 onions peeled 2 tablespoons ginger 

6 green peppers 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

I cup salt 2 tables]30ons mustard 
6 cups vinegar 

Peel tomatoes, and cook all ingredients six hours, stir- 
ring often. Poiir into sterilized bottles and seal. 



322 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Tomato Ketchup No. 2 

^ bushel tomatoes 3 quarts vinegar 

2 tablespoons mustard 2 cups alcohol 

2 tablespoons ginger 3 cups brown sugar 

1 tablespoon cloves 1 cup salt 

1 tablespoon allspice 2 lemons finely chopped 

2 tablespoons pepper cayenne pepper 

Cook tomatoes one hour ; press through a sieve ; add all 
ingredients, except alcohol, and cook until thick ; boil one 
minute ; add alcohol, and bottle. The cooking will take 
six or eight hours ; stir occasionally to keep from burning. 

Mushroom Ketchup 

Arrange layers of mushrooms and salt in preserving 
kettle ; let stand on back of stove for twelve hours. Press 
through a sieve. Measure. For each quart of mush- 
room liquor add one pint vinegar, one tablespoon salt, two 
tablespoons each of cloves, allspice, mace, and mustard 
seed. Boil until thick, then bottle. 

Cucumber Ketchup 

3 large cucumbers 2 tablespoons salt 

1 large onion 2 cups vinegar 

2 tablespoons grated horse- 2 tablespoons pepper 

radish 1 teaspoon paprika 

Grate cucumber and onion, add remaining ingredients, 
boil five minutes, bottle, and seal. 



CHAPTER XIX 
CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 

The chafing dish is composed of the blazer and hot- 
water pan, set in a standard with a small lamp underneath. 
Some lamps have an electric attachment, but alcohol is the 
fuel most used. The best alcohol is the most satisfactory, 
although many use wood alcohol. 

Every kind of dish which is usually prepared in a sauce- 
pan or double boiler can be made in the chafing dish, 
but ordinarily, oyster, mushroom, fish, egg^ and cheese 
dishes are the ones most popular. 

When preparing for a chafing dish supper, arrange the 
chafing dish on a tray, have the lamp filled, and matches 
at hand. A wooden spoon or regular chafing dish spoon 
and a wire whisk are convenient and really necessary 
utensils. It is well to have all the ingredients measured 
and neatly arranged on a tray. If butter is to be used, 
butter balls, each representing a tablespoon, are a conven- 
ient and attractive way in which to serve it. 

Light the lamp and have the water boiling before the 
supper is announced, then the compounding of the dish 
may be done quickly. 

Salted Almonds 

Heat one tablespoon olive oil in chafing dish; add one 
cup blanched and dried almonds. Stir until evenly 
colored. Drain and sprinkle with salt. 

323 



324 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Deviled Almonds 

Melt one tablespoon butter in chafing dish. Add one 
tablespoon chopped red pepper, one tablespoon onion, one 
half teaspoon salt, and one cup blanched almonds. Cook 
until almonds are brown. 

Deviled Beef 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons green 
pepper, one tablespoon onion, one teaspoon each of salt 
and lemon juice, one tablespoon flour. Spread on rounds 
of cold roast beef and saute in butter; or add one half 
cup tomato and reheat beef in sauce. 

Bacon and Chicken Livers 

Cut six chicken livers in slices, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Add an equal amount of sliced bacon. Cook 
together until livers are tender. Add two tablespoons 
flour, one half teaspoon salt, one cup stock or tomato. 
Season with Worcestershire and serve hot on toast. 

Bacon and Mushrooms 

Wrap eight mushrooms in eight slices of bacon. Cook 
in chafing dish until mushrooms are tender. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Chicken Livers with Mushrooms 

Make a brown sauce ; add two cups sliced cooked livers 
and one cup choi)ped mushrooms. Reheat and serve on 
toast. Two tablespoons wine may be added. 

Deviled Bananas 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one tablespoon chopped 
red pepper, two teaspoons chopped pickles, one teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add 
four bananas cut in four equal parts. Cook five minutes. 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 325 

Frizzled Beef 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one tablespoon flour 
and one half pound dried beef. Cook five minutes, add 
one half cup stock, few drops onion juice, one half tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, two eggs well beaten. Cook 
two minutes and serve. 

Beef with Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make a brown sauce ; add one cup currant jelly and 

twelve thin slices rare roast beef. Cook until hot and 

serve. 

Cheese Dreams 

Cut twelve thin slices of bread and remove crusts. Cut 
in halves, cover with a thin slice of American cheese, 
sprinkle with salt, paprika and cayenne ; cover with 
another slice of bread and saute on both sides in butter. 
These are more easily prepared small than large. 

Cheese Custard 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one teaspoon each of 
salt, mustard and paprika. Add two cups cheese, one 
half cup soft bread crumbs, and one cup milk. Cook five 
minutes. Add two eggs well beaten ; when thoroughly 
blended, pour on to bread toasted on one side. 

Cheese Omelet 

Melt one tablespoon butter ; add four eggs slightly 
beaten, four tablespoons milk, one half teaspoon salt, one 
cup grated cheese. Cook like a French omelet over hot 
water. Serve with or without tomato sauce. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Melt one teaspoon butter ; add one teaspoon each of salt, 
mustard and paprika ; add two cups American cheese- 



326 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

When melted, add one half cup cream or ale. Stir vigor- 
ously until smooth, and pour over hot buttered crackers 

or toast. 

Cheese and Tomato Rarebit 

Melt one tablespoon butter ; add three sliced tomatoes, 
one half cup milk, one teaspoon salt, two cups cheese. 
Stir continually until cheese is melted. Add three eggs 
well beaten. When hot, serve on hot buttered toast. 

Cheese with Red Peppers 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons 
chopped pepper, one half tablespoon chopped onion, one 
fourth cup grated cheese, one fourth cup cream, four eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook until well blended and serve on 
buttered slices of toast. 

Chicken a la Creme 

Make a white sauce ; add one and one half cups chicken 
meat, cut in cubes, one half cup mushrooms, cut in slices, 
and one red pepper, finely chopped. Add more seasoning 
if required and serve on hot toast. 

Turkey, veal, lamb, or game may be served in this way. 

Chicken and Mushrooms a la Creme 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons flour, 
one cup cream, one half teaspoon salt. Add one cup each 
of cold cooked chicken, cut in pieces, and cold cooked 
sweetbreads, also cut in pieces. 

Serve very hot on buttered toast. A few drops of 
Tabasco may be added. 

Curried Chicken 

Add one tablespoon curry powder to Chicken a la 
Cr^me. 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 327 

Chicken with Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cut four harcl-cookecl eggs iu slices, add to two cups 
creamed chicken with two tablespoons sherry. 

^^ • 
Bechamel Eggs 

Two cups Bechamel sauce, mixed with four hard-cooked 
eggs, cut in slices ; one half cup sauted mushrooms. 
Cook all together five minutes ; serve on hot toast. 

Creamed Eggs 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoon flour, 
one fourth teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one cup 
cream. Cook until thick, add two egg yolks and six hard- 
cooked eggs, cut in pieces, and serve hot on toast. 

Scrambled Eggs and Tomato ^ 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon each 
of chopped pepper and onion, one cup cooked tomato, one 
half teaspoon salt. When hot, add four eggs slightly 
beaten ; when scrambled, serve on toast. 

Poached Eggs on Toast 
May be prepared in chafing dish. 

Creamed Lobster 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one fourth teaspoon 
salt, few grains cayenne, two tablespoons flour, one cup 
cream, few gratings nutmeg. Cook ten minutes, add 
meat from a two-pound lobster, cut in small pieces, the 
grated coral, and one tablespoon butter. One teaspoon 
Worcestershire and one teaspoon mustard may be added. 



328 lowney's cook book 

Lobster k la Newburg 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon flour, 
one teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one cup cream. 
Cook five minutes ; add three egg yolks well beaten, the 
meat from a two-pound lobster, and just before serving, 
one third cup each of sherry and brandy. 

Lobster with Pimolas 

Mix one cup brown sauce, one cup sliced pimolas, two 
hard-cooked eggs, cut in slices, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
few gratings nutmeg, and two tablespoons sauted mush- 
rooms, wdth two cups lobster meat. Serve when hot with 
slices of brown bread toast. 

Lobster with Mushrooms 

Melt three tablesjpoons butter ; add one cup fresh 
mushrooms, cut in slices, few drops onion juice, two ta- 
blespoons flour, one cup cream or chicken stock ; meat 
from a two-pound lobster and salt, pepper, and cayenne 
to taste. Serve when hot. 

Lamb Terrapin 

Mix two cups cold cooked lamb, cut in small pieces, 
two hard-cooked eggs, chopped fine, two tablespoons olive 
oil. Let stand two minutes. Melt two tablespoons but- 
ter ; add two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon mustard, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and one cup lamb stock, 
or milk. Cook five minutes. Add lamb and eggs and 
serve on graham toast. 

Sauted Oysters 

Season four dozen large oysters with salt, pepper, onion 
juice and lemon juice. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and saute in butter. 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 329 

Fricassee of Oysters and Mushrooms 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; acid one tablespoon flour, 
one half finely chopped onion, one cup mushrooms, broken 
in small pieces, one cup chicken stock or one cup oyster 
liquor. Cook five minutes and add two cups 03'sters 
drained from their liquor. Reheat ; season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and Worcestershire sauce. Serve with 
brown bread sandwiches. 

Celeried Oysters 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two cups each of cel- 
ery and oysters. Season with salt, cayenne and lemon 
juice. Serve hot with crisp toast. 

Shrimps and Tomatoes 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one can tomatoes ; 
simmer until of puree consistency. Season highly with 
salt, pepper and onion juice. Add two cups shrimps 
which have been marinated in French dressing for one 
hour. When hot, serve on hot buttered toast. 

Sweetbreads with Bacon 
Cut cooked sweetbreads in inch pieces. Sprinkle with 
salt, cayenne, lemon juice and onion juice. Wrap in slices 
of bacon. Skewer, saute in butter. Serve with brown 
sauce, and garnish with finely chopped celery. 

Calves' Brains a la Bechamel 
Cut two cups cooked brains in small pieces. Marinate 
with French dressing. Melt two tablespoons butter ; 
add four tablespoons chopped peppers, one half cup 
chopped mushrooms, few drops onion juice, two table- 
spoons flour, and one cup chicken stock. Cook five min- 
utes ; add brains ; season with salt, cayenne. Tabasco and 
Worcestershire. 



330 LOWIfEY'S COOK BOOK 

Buttered Tomatoes 

Melt one half cup butter ; sprinkle six sliced tomatoes 
with salt and pepper ; put in chafing dish ; cover and 
cook twenty minutes. Serve on toast. 

Venison with Currant Jelly- 
Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one quarter teaspoon 
salt, few grains cayenne, one tablespoon lemon juice, one 
cup currant jelly, one cup sherry ; cook five minutes. 
Keep hot while cooking slice of venison steak in chafing 
dish eight minutes. Serve sauce with venison. 

Venison Stew 

Cut one slice venison steak in inch pieces. Cover with 
chicken or veal stock ; simmer until tender, about fifteen 
minutes ; season with salt and pepper ; add one cup cur- 
rant jelly and serve. 

Sauted Bananas 

Peel and cut four bananas in four pieces ; melt two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, and one half 
cup sherry ; when hot, add bananas, and cook until ba- 
nanas are hot and tender. 

Hot Fruit Salad 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add four tablespoons 
sugar, one quarter cup water, and one quarter cup lemon 
juice ; add two cups mixed fruit, apples, bananas, figs and 
cherries ; when hot, serve with cream sweetened and 
beaten until stiff. 

Peach Canapl 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two cups peaches 
with skin and stones removed ; cook ten minutes ; add 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 331 

sugar and lemon juice, and serve on slices of sauted bread 
or sponge cake ; garnish with cream. 

Pineapple Canape 

Substitute two cups shredded pineapple for peaches, and 
follow directions for Peach Canape. 



CHAPTER XX 
COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 

The preparation of food for the sick and convalescent 
person is even more important than the preparation for 
the strong and well. Certain points should always be 
considered. The food should be freshly prepared, dain- 
tily served, and if possible different dishes for each meal. 

The arrangement of the tray is often of great impor- 
tance. Select attractive dishes and arrange them so that 
the patient can reach them without trouble. Serve every- 
thing which should be hot, very hot, and cold dishes, ice- 
cold. 

Apple Water 

1 large juicy apple 2 cups water 

sugar 

Wash, pare, core, and cut apple into pieces; add water 
and simmer until tender; strain, add sugar to water, cook 
five minutes, chill, and serve. If apple is not tart, a small 
amount of lemon juice may be added to give a more agree- 
able flavor. 

Pears, peaches, plums, figs, prunes, raisins and rhubarb 
may be used in the same way. 

Barley Water 

2 cups boiling water salt 

I tablespoon prepared barley sugar 

Mix barley with a small amount of cold water, add to 
boiling water, and simmer twenty minutes. Season with 
salt and sugar. Lemon juice may be added if desired. 

332 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 333 

Cinnamon Water 

h ounce stick cinnamon 2 cups boiling water 

Break cinnamon in small pieces, add water, and boil 
twenty minutes. Strain and serve hot or cold. 

Currant Water 
2 tablespoons currant jelly 1 cup boiling water 

Mix jelly and water, strain, chill, and serve. 
Cranberry, strawberry, raspberry, blackberry and plum 
water may be prepared in the same way. 

Distilled Water 

This may be prepared at home by attaching one end of 
a curved tube to the spout of the teakettle, and having 
the other end placed in a jar. The jar should be placed 
in a kettle of cold water. This condensed steam is dis- 
tilled water. 

Flaxseed Tea 

J cup flaxseed 4 cups boiling water 

salt sugar 

lemon juice 

Boil flaxseed and water one hour, strain, sweeten, and 
flavor. Serve hot or cold. 

Grape Water 
2 cups grapes IJ cups boiling water 

Wash grapes, mash, add water, simmer ten minutes, 
strain, chill, and serve. 

Lemonade 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons sugar syrup 

1 cup cold water 

Mix ingredients, add crushed ice, and serve ice-cold 
with straws. 



334 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Oatmeal Water 

4 tablespoons fine oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

salt 

Boil all ingredients twenty minutes, strain, cool, add 
water to make of pleasant consistency. 

Tamarind Water 
1 tablespoon tamarinds 1 cup boiling water 

Let tamarinds stand in water one half hour, strain, chill, 

and serve. 

Toast Water 

Dry and brown in the oven very thin slices of white or 
graham bread, break into small pieces, cover with boiling 
water; when cold, strain and season with salt. 

Sugar Syrup 

1 cup sugar i cup boiling water 

Boil two minutes, keep in preserve jar, and use when 
needed. 

Irish Moss Lemonade 

4 tablespoons Irish moss 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups cold water sugar syrup 

Pick over and soak moss in cold water to cover for one 
half hour; drain, cover with two cups cold water, and 
cook ten minutes; strain, add lemon juice and sugar 
syrup to taste. 

Milk Punch 

f cup fresh milk 2 tablespoons brandy or whiskey 

salt nutmeg 

sugar 

Sweeten milk to taste, add salt and liquor, and pour 
from one tumbler to another until frothy. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 335 

Egg and Milk Punch 

1 egg 1 tablespoon whiskey or brandy 

I cup milk 2 teaspoons sugar 

Beat yolk ; add milk, liquor and sugar, pour into glass ; 
add well-beaten white of egg^ stir lightly, and serve. 

Eggnog 

1 egg 2 tablespoons wine, whiskey, or 

1 teaspoon sugar brandy 

salt 1 cup cream 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add beaten cream and 
liquor, then well-beaten yolk mixed with sugar and salt. 

Milk or hot water may be substituted for the cream, 
and the yolk and white may be beaten together just 
slightly if a foamy eggnog is disliked. 

Koumiss 

Heat four cups milk ; cool ; when lukewarm, add one 
fourth yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup lukewarm 
water, and two tablespoons sugar. Pour into bottles with 
patent stoppers, fill two thirds full, cork tightly. Shake ; 
let stand in kitchen six hours, then on ice for twenty-four 
hours ; serve ice cold. 

Egg Cordial 

1 egg white 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon brandy or wine few grains salt 
2 tablespoons cream 

Beat white until frothy ; add cream and continue beat- 
ing ; add remaining ingredients and serve immediately. 

Orange Egg Cordial 

Prepare as Egg Cordial, omitting wine and cream, and 
using the juice of one orange. 



336 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Albuminized Milk 

1 egg white 2 cup milk 

salt 

Beat white until frothy ; add salt and milk, and con- 
tinue beating ; strain and serve. 

Egg and Lemon 

1 egg 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
salt 1 teaspoon sugar 

Beat egg^ add remaining ingredients, and serve cold. 

Wine Whey 

2 cups milk 5 cup wine 

Scald milk ; add wine ; let stand until curds separate 
from whey. Strain and serve hot or cold. Lemon or 
Vinegar Whey may be prepared in the same way ; allow 
one tablespoon vinegar or two tablespoons lemon juice. 

Barley Gruel 

1 tablespoon barley flour J cup boiling water 

I cup cold water h cup milk 

salt 

Mix barley with cold water and salt ; add boiling water 
and cook in double boiler one half hour; add milk and 
cook ten minutes more ; if too thick, thin with hot milk or 
cream. 

Entire Wheat Gruel 

I cup entire wheat 3 cups water (hot) 

^ cup cold water salt 

Mix wheat and cold water, add boiling water and salt, 
and cook in double boiler one to two hours. Milk may 
be substituted for water. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 337 

Cracker Gruel 

2 tablespoons cracker crumbs 1 cup milk 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix crumbs and milk and cook in double boiler twenty 

minutes ; add salt and serve. 

Dried bread crumbs may be substituted for cracker 

crumbs. 

Com Meal Gruel 

2 tablespoons corn meal ^ cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups boiling water 

Mix corn meal, salt and milk; add boiling water and 
cook in double boiler two hours. 

Flour Gruel 

2 tablespoons flour 2 cups scalded milk 
^ cup cold water ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix flour with cold water, add scalded milk and salt. 
Cook in double boiler thirty minutes, stirring often. 

Flour Ball for Flour Gruel 

Knead two cups flour into a ball, adding water to form 
a stiff dough. Tie ball in a linen cloth and boil in deep 
saucepan ten to twelve hours, keeping the cloth covered 
with boiling water all of the time. Dry in cloth, remove 
cloth, and dry ball in oven. This will keep for years. 
Scrape two tablespoons from the ball ; add one fourth 
cup cold water and two cups scalded milk ; cook in double 
boiler ten minutes, add salt, and serve. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tablespoons oatmeal I cup cold water 

2 cups boiling water | teaspoon salt 

Mix oatmeal with cold water ; add salt and boiling 
water, and cook two hours, or better still over night, in 



338 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

double boiler. Strain and serve ; thin with hot water or 
milk if not of the desired consistency. 

Oatmeal Caudle 

Add one egg yolk and one tablespoon brandy or sherry 
to Oatmeal Gruel. 

Rice Gruel 

2 tablespoons ground rice 2 cups milk 

\ cup cold water ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix rice and cold water; add scalded milk and cook in 
double boiler two hours, stirring occasionally. Strain, 
add salt, and serve. 

Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in one quarter inch slices ; remove 
crusts or not as preferred. Dry in oven; place on toaster 
and toast over clear fire, first on one side and then on 
the other, having both sides a golden brown. Arrange in 
toast rack or cover with napkin. 

Buttered Toast 

Prepare bread as for Dry Toast, and spread with butter 
as soon as taken from toaster. 

Water Toast 

Prepare bread as for Dry Toast, dip in hot salted water, 
drain, and spread with butter. 

Milk Toast 

3 cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons flour 
3 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

\ cup cold milk toasted bread 

Toast bread according to recipe for Dry Toast. Mix 
flour and cold milk; add to scalded milk and cook in 
double boiler twenty minutes, stirring constantly at first; 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 839 

add salt and butter; dip toast in sauce; serve in hot 
dish; add remaining sauce. 

Cream Toast 

Prepare in the same way as Milk Toast, substituting 

cream for milk. 

Brown Bread Toast 

Cut brown bread in thin slices; dry in oven, then toast; 
butter each slice, and cover with scalded milk. 

Pulled Bread 

Remove the crust from fresh bread and tear the center 
in small pieces. Dry in slow oven ; the center of biscuits 
may be prepared in the same way. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Cut bread in thin slices; remove crusts; spread with 
creamed butter; put two slices together; cut in desired 
shapes. Arrange on fancy plate. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Cut bread in thin slices; remove crusts; shape and spread 
with raw beef. Serve as soon as made. 

To scrape Raw Beef 

Buy bottom or top of round of beef; wipe, then scrape 
with a teaspoon ; there should be nothing but fiber left 
when all meat is scraped. 

Fig Sandwiches 
Fill bread and butter sandwiches with stewed figs. 

Beef Juice 

Buy one half pound from top of round; wipe, and set in 
oven five minutes; cut in thin slices, squeeze, using meat 



840 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

press or lemon squeezer. Serve in warm, not hot cups, 
with salt or not. 

Beef Tea 

Wipe one half pound of round steak; remove all fat; 
cut in small pieces; add one cup cold water; place in pre- 
serve jar, cover, and let stand ten minutes ; place jar on 
trivet in saucepan surrounded with cold water. Heat 
gradually on back of range ; keep water just simmering 
for one hour. Strain, add salt, and serve in hot cup. 

Beef Essence 

Wipe one half pound round steak; remove fat ; chop very- 
fine; place in fruit jar; cover, place jar on trivet, surround 
with cold water, and keep water just bubbling for one 
and a half hours. Strain, press meat to extract all juice, 
season, serve in hot cup. 

Frozen Beef Tea 

Prepare beef tea, pour into glass, surrounded with ice 
and salt, and freeze, turning often. 

Scraped Beef Balls 

Prepare scraped beef according to rule. Season; shape 
in round balls about the size of marbles; cook in hissing 
hot frying pan; keep pan constantly in motion, and cook 
balls two minutes. Serve on small strips of toasted bread; 
garnish with parsley. 

Mutton Broth 

Wipe two pounds neck of mutton; remove all fat and 
cut off skin; cut meat in small pieces. Put meat and 
bones in kettle; add four cups cold water, and simmer 
gently several hours; add salt to taste. Strain, let stand 



COOKERY FOE THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 341 

over night to cool; in the morning remove fat, reheat, and 
serve with two tablespoons cooked rice in broth. 

Chicken Broth 

Cut up a three-pound fowl; remove skin and all fat. 
Put in soup kettle ; add ten cups cold water, and simmer 
until meat falls from bones. Strain; let stand over night 
to cool; remove fat; reheat, season with salt, and serve 
with boiled rice or croutons. 

Clam Broth 

Wash dozen clams, put in kettle, cover, and cook until 
shells open. Strain clam liquor through cheese cloth and 
serve very hot. 

Rennet Custard 

4 cups milk 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 tablespoon liquid rennet few grains salt 

4 tablespoons sugar 

Mix sugar, brandy and salt. Heat milk until luke- 
warm ; add rennet and other ingredients ; pour into serv- 
ing dish and let stand until a firm curd is formed, then 
chill. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Calf's Foot Jelly 

1 calf's foot I cup lemon juice 

4 cups cold water ^ cup sugar 

^ cup sherry 3 egg whites 

Cook the calf's foot in cold water, slowly, for four hours. 
Skim often while cooking. Strain ; let stand over night. 
Remove fat ; add whites of eggs slightly beaten, and bring 
slowly to the boiling point ; boil one minute, strain through 
cheese cloth, add remaining ingredients, and pour into 
molds. Chill and serve. 



342 LOJVNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Whip 

2 egg whites 1 cup strawberries 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Hull and wash the strawberries, add sugar and lemon 
juice. Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, add other in- 
gredients, and serve ice-cold in frappe glasses. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 

2 tablespoons arrowroot 2 tablespoons sugar 
few grains of salt 1| cups milk 

flavoring 

Mix arrowroot, salt and sugar; add milk, a little at 
a time, until the mixture is smooth, then add the remain- 
der, and cook in double boiler one half hour, stirring all 
the time. Add flavoring, pour into molds, and serve 
with soft custard or cream. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash prunes ; soak over night in water to cover ; cook 
slowly, in same water, until tender. A small amount of 
sugar and lemon juice may be added if desired. 

Stewed Figs 

Wash figs ; cut in pieces; for each cup of figs add one 
quarter cup cold water, simmer one hour; add sugar and 
lemon juice if allowed. 

Oatmeal Wafers 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons butter 

^ cup fine oatmeal | teaspoon salt 

\ cup rolled oats I cup hot milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix butter and milk; when cool, add remaining in- 
gredients. Roll very thin, shape in squares, and bake in 
a slow oven. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



A Cook Book for Nurses 

Boston Cook Book 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book 

Canning and Preserving 

Century Cook Book 

Chemistry of Cookery . 

Chemistry and Economy of Food 

Cost of Food .... 

Cost of Living 

Dainty Breakfasts 

Dietetic Value of Bread 

Fish as Food 

Food Products of the World . 

Handbook of Invalid Cooking 

Home Science Cook Book 

How to Cook for the Sick and Convalescent 

I Go A-marketing .... 

Luncheons 

Made Over Dishes .... 
Marion Harland's Complete Cook Book 
Practical Cooking and Serving 
Salads, Sandwiches, and Chafing Dish Dainties 
Young Housekeeper 



Sarah C. Hill 
Mary J. Lincoln 
Fannie M. Farmer 

S. T. RORER 

Mary Ronald 
Mattieu Williams 
Atwater 
Richards 
Richards 
Phyllis Browne 
goodfellow 
S. Department of Agriculture 
Mary E. Green, M. D. 
Mary A. Boland 
Anna Barrows and Mary J. Lincoln 
H. V. Sachse 
"Henrietta " 
Mary Ronald 
Mrs. Rorer 
Marion Harland 
Janet McK. Hill 
Janet McK. Hill 
Maria Parloa 



343 



GLOSSARY 

Anchovy — A fish caught in the Mediterranean. 

Anchovy Essence — Consists of pounded anchovies cooked with water, 

vinegar, spices, and mushrooms. 
Angelica — A plant, the stalks of which are preserved, used for 

decorating. 
Appetizers — Cold hors d'oeuvres, side dishes, served preliminary to the 

dinner, supposed to create an appetite for something more 

substantial. 
Au, Aux — To or with. 
Bain-marie — A double boiler. 
Bisque — A paste or pur^e. 
Blanch — To scald. 
Bombe — Ices in a mold, an outside coating of one kind, a filling of 

another. 
Bouchee — Mouthful. 
Bouillon — Beef broth. 
Brioche — A bread made rich with eggs. 
Brochette — A skewer. 
Caviare — Salted and smoked sturgeon roe. 
Curagoa — A cordial. 

Cutlets — Steaks of veal, lamb, mutton, or pork. 
Entree — A made dish served as a course or between courses. 
Foie-gras — Fat liver ; especially the liver of fat geese. 
Fondue — Cheese and eggs cooked together. 
Fondant — Cooked and beaten sugar, ready to flavor and mold for 

. centers of bonbons. 
Frangaise — In French style. 
Frappe — Half frozen. 

Fricassee — Originally meat fried and served with a sauce. 
Gherkins — Small cucumbers. 

Giblets — The neck, liver, gizzard, and heart of poultry or game. 
Glace — Glossed over. 
Hors d'oeuvres — Side dishes. 
Italienne — In Italian style . 
Jardiniere — Mixed vegetables. 

345 




346 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Koumiss — Fermented milk. 

Macedoine — A mixture of several fruits or vegetables. 

Marrons — Chestnuts. 

Mayonnaise — Salad sauce. 

Meringue — Mixture of sugar and white of egg beaten together. 

Mignon — Small. 

Mousse — Moss, froth, something light and spongy. 

Mulligatawny — Curry soup. 

Noir — Black. 

Papillote — Paper. 

Parf ait — Perfect. 

Plit6~ Paste. 

Pilaf — Turkish dish of rice and tomatoes. 

Potage — Soup. 

Printaniere (a la) — With young spring vegetables. 

Puree — Ingredients rubbed through a sieve. 

Ragout — A highly seasoned lish or meat dish. 

Rissoles — Something crisp. 

Riz — Rice. 

Roux — Butter and flour mixed and used for thickening. 

Sabayon — A custard flavored with v;ine. 

Scones — Scotch name for baking powder biscuit. 

Sorbet — Frozen punch. 

SoufQe — A puff, something light and fluffy. 

Syllabub — Old English name for whipped and flavored cream. 



INDEX 




Lowney's Premium Chocolate goes further 
than other cooking chocolates, because it 

is absolutely pure, and is made of the 
choicest and highest-priced cocoa beans, 
especially selected and blended. It is what 
used to be called *' bitter chocolate," be- 
cause it is unsweetened. It is very econom- 
ical to use in cooking, because every atom 
of it is the choicest chocolate,— no adulter- 
ation in Lowney's. 



INSIST ON HAVING LOWNEY'S PREMIUM CHOCOLATE 
THE DEALER CAN GET IT EASILY IF YOU INSIST 



INDEX 



Accessories for Soup, 37. 
Albuminized Milk, 336. 
Almond Cake, 258. 
Almonds, 301. 

Sticks, 243. 

Deviled, 324. 

Salted, 323. 
Anchovy Canapes, 33. 

Sandwich, 187. 
Angel Cake, 257. 
Angelettes, Chocolate, 264. 
Apple, Batter Pudding, 220. 

Charlotte, 219. 

Dumpling, 218. 

Dumpling, Baked, 216. 

Flame, 217. 

Flamingo, 217. 

Fritters, 169. 

Ginger, 314. 

Indian Pudding, 225. 

Jelly, 312. 

Marmalade, 315. 

Meringue, 202. 

Nests, 219. 

Pie, 237. 

Rice Pudding, 211. 

Sago, 201. 

Sauce, 228. 

Scalloped, 218. 

Souffle, 218. 

Sponge, 216. 

Tapicoa, 201. 

Tarts, 243. 

Water, 332. 
Apples, 299. 
Apples, and Pineapples, Canned, 

Baked, 217. 

Canned, 304. 

on a Bed of Rice, 219. 

Preserved, 308. 

Stewed, 221. 
Apricot, Marmalade, 315. 

Sauce, 228. 



305. 



Apricots, Preserved, 310. 
Arrowroot, Blanc Mange, 342. 

Custard, 197. 
Artichoke Soup, 42. 
Artichokes, Globe, 97, 98. 

Jerusalem, 98. 

Scalloped Globe, 98. 

with Hollandaise Sauce, 147. 
Asparagus, 97, 98. 

in Croustades, 147. 

Soup, 42. 
Aspic Jelly, 128. 

Jelly, Quick, 129. 

of Pate de Foie Gras, 136. 

Bacon, and Chicken Livers, 324. 

and Mushrooms, 324. 

Broiled, 89. 

Canapes, 34. 

Cooked in the oven, 89. 

Omelet, 115. 
Baking Powder Biscuit, 162. 
Ball, Flour, 337. 
Banana, Custard, 197. 

Fried in Crumbs, 148. 

Fritters, 169. 

Ice Cream, 283. 

Sauce, 228. 
Bananas, 299. 

Deviled, 324. 

Sauted, 330. 
Banbury Squares, 243. 

Tarts', 243. 
Bangor Brownies, 261. 
Barberry Jelly, 313. 
Barley, Gruel", 336. 

Water, 332. 
Batter, for Fruit Fritters, 149, 169. 

Peach, 220. 
Bavarian Cream, Chocolate, 207. 
Beans, Agricultural, 98. 

Baked, 43. 

Canned, 307. 



y^t) 



350 



INDEX 



Beans, continued. 

Kidney, 98. 

Lima, 98. 

Shelled, 98. 

String, 99. 
Bean Soup, 42. 
Beef, 13, 76. 

Balls, Scraped, 340. 

Boiled, 76. 

Braised, 77. 

Deviled, 324. 

Essence, 340. 

FiUet of, 77. 

Fillet of. Broiled, 78. 

Fillet of. Broiled, with Oysters, 78. 

Fillet of. Sauted, 78. 

Frizzled, 325. 

Juice, 339. 

Mignons of. Deviled, 139. 

Ragotit, 80. 

Roast, 79. 

Sandwich, Raw, 339. 

Steak, Broiled, 81. 

Steak, Smothered in Onions, 81. 

Spiced, 80. 

Stewed, 80. 

Tea, 340. 

Tea, Frozen, 340. 

with Currant Jelly Sauce, 325. 
Beets, 97, 99. 
Beet Tops, 100. 
Berry Muffins, 163. 
Berries, 299. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 162. 

Drop, 162. 

Fruit, 163. 

Tortoni, 290. 
Bisque, Clam, 54. 

Crab, 54. 

Lobster, 54. 

Oyster, 55. 

Oyster a la Reine, 55. 

Shrimp, Bretonne, 55. 
Blackberries, Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 308. 
Blackberry, Dumpling, 223. 

Jam, 316. 

Jelly, 313. 

Pie, 237. 

Shortcake, 167. 
Black Currant Jam, 316. 
Blanc Mange, Arrowroot, 342. 

Chocolate, 191. 



Blanc Mange, continued. 

Chocolate Irish Moss, 200. 

Coffee Irish Moss, 200. 

Irish Moss, 199. 
Blueberries, Canned, 305. 
Blueberry Pie, 237. 

Pudding, Steamed, 222. 

Puffs, 224. 
Bluefish, Baked, 66. 
Bombe Glace, Raspberry, 291. 

Strawberry, 291. 
Bouchee, 241. 

Bouchees a la Macedoine, 146. 
Bouillon, 56. 
Braids, 160. 
Brains, Breaded, 143. 

Scalloped, 142. 
Brandy Cocoa, 294. 
Brazilian Nuts, 301. 
Bread and Butter Sandwich, 339. 
Bread, Date, 158. 

Entire Wheat, 157. 

Filbert, 158. 

Five Hour, 162. 

Gluten, 158. 

Graham, 157. 

Griddle Cakes, 167. 

Hard Ginger, 266. 

Milk, 156. 

Milk and Water, 157. 

Pudding, 222. 

Pudding, Buttered, 222. 

Pulled, 162, 339. 

Raised Brown, 158. 

Rye, 157. 

Squash, 162. 

Sticks, 160. 

Toast Brown, 339. 

Walnut, 158. 

Water, 157. 
Breakfast Cocoa, 294. 
Bride's Cake, 258. 
Brioche, 159. 
Broth, Chicken, 341. 

Clam, 341. 

Mutton, 340. 
Brown Betty, 219. 
Brown Bread Ice Cream, 283. 
Brown Bread, Raised, 158. 
Brownies, Bangor, 261. 

Lowney's, 265. 
Brown Sugar Frosting, 274. 
Brussels Sprouts, 97, 99. 



INDEX 



351 



Buckwheat Cakes, 168. 
Buns, 159. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream, 286. 
Butter Cake, Simple, 251. 
Buttercups, 302. 
Butter Scotch, 301. 
Taffy, 301. 

Cabbage, 97, 99. 

and Celery, Pickled, 319. 

Pickled, 319. 

Soup, 44. 

Sprouts, Young, 99. 
Cafe, Frappe, 292. 

Parfait, 289. 
Cake, Almond, 258. 

Angel, 257. 

Bride's, 258. 

Chocolate, 248, 258. 

Chocolate Marshmallow, 255. 

Chocolate Pound, 249. 

Chocolate Raisin, 249. 

Chocolate Sponge, 250. 

Chocolate Walnut, 250. 

Cocoa, 249. 

Cold Water Sponge, 256. 

Cream Sponge, 257. 

Currant, 251. 

Dutch Apple, 163. 

Fig, 255. 

Fruit, 254. 

Gold, 251. 

Hot Water Sponge, 256. 

Imperial, 254. 

Layer, 251. 

Lowney's Chocolate, 263. 

Marble, 253. 

Marshmallow, 255. 

Mocha, 255. 

Nut, 252. 

Orange, 252. 

Plain Chocolate, 248. 

Plain Sponge, 255. 

Pound, 253. 

Raised Fruit, 254. 

Short, 166. 

Silver, 252. 

Simple Butter, 251. 

Simple Chocolate, 256. 

Spice, 252. 

Sunshine, 258. 

True Sponge, 257. 

Walnut Chocolate, 250. 



Cakes, Flannel, 168. 

Calf's Brains, a la Bechamel, 329. 

Brains in Batter, 142. 

Foot Jelly, 341. 

Heart, Stuffed, 140. 

Liver, Fried, 138. 
Canape, Peach, 330. 

Pineapple, 331. 
Canapes, 33. 

Anchovy, 33. 

Bacon, 34. 

Caviare, 33. 

Cheese, 33. 

Crab, 34. 

Ham, 34. 

Lobster, 34. 

Nut and Olive, 35. 

Salmon, 34. 

Sardine, 35. 

Tomato and Cucumber, 35. 

Tongue, 35. 
Caviare Canapes, 33. 
Candy, see Lowney's Chocolate, 301. 

Cream, 301. 

Maple Sugar, 302. 

Molasses, 302. 
Cantaloupe, Banana, 209. 

Sweet Pickled, 318. 
Canteloupes, 300. 
Capon, Roast, 93. 
Caramel, Custard, Baked, 198, 199. 

Custard, Soft, 198. 

Filling, 275. 

Frosting, 270, 271. 

Ice Cream, 286. 

Rice Pudding, 223. 

Sauce, 229. 
Carrots, 97, 99. 

Sauted, 99. 

with White Sauce, 99. 
Castana, 301. 
Caudle Oatmeal, 338. 
Cauliflower, 97, 99. 

au gratin, 147. 

Fritters, 170. 

Scalloped, 99, 100. 

with White Sauce, 99, 100. 
Caviare Sandwiches, 187. 
Celery, 100. 

au jus, 147. 

Fried, 100. 

Fritters, 170. 

Sandwiches, 187. 



352 



INDEX 



Celery, continued. 

Scalloped, 100. 

with White Sauce, 100. 
Charlotte, Apple, 219. 
Charlotte Russe, Caramel, 210. 

Chocolate, 192. 

French, 210. 

Strawberry, 211. 

Vanilla, 210. 
Champagne Cup, 297. 
Chantilly Tarts, 244. 
Cheese and Tomato Rarebit, 326. 

Balls, 38. 

Canapes, 33. 

Crackers, 37. 

Custard, 325. 

Dreams, 325. 

Omelet, 325. 

Rissoles, 145. ' 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Straws, 243. 

with Red Peppers, 326. 
Cherries, 299. 

Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 309. 
Cherry Duff, 223. 

Jelly, 313. 

Sauce, 229. 
Chestnut Cream, 202. 

Mixture, 195. 

Soup, 45. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Chesnuts with Chocolate Cream, 

195. 
Chicken, k la Creme, 326. 

Baked, 146. 

Baltimore, 91. 

Boiled, 89. 

Braised, 89. 

Breasts in Aspic, 136. 

Broiled, 90. 

Broth, 341. 

Consomme, 58. 

Consomme with Custard, 59. 

Consumme with Macaroni, 59. 

Creole, 91. 

Croquettes, 134. 

Curried, 326. 

Forcemeat, 128. 

Fricassee, 91. 

Fried, 90. 

Fried in Batter, 91. 

Gumbo Soup, 60. 



Chicken, continued. 

in Aspic, 136. 

Livers in Fontage Cups, Creanaed, 
131. 

Livers with Mushrooms, 324. 

Mousse, 129. 

Pie, 92. 

Pie, Old-fashioned, English, 92. 

Quenelles, 40. 

Rissoles, 144. 

Roast, 93. 

Roast, Boiled, 92. 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Sauted, 90. 

Souffle, 129. 

Stock, 60. 

Stuffing for Peppers, 153. 

Supreme, 146. 

Timbales, 129. 

with Hard Cooked Eggs, 327. 
Chih Sauce, 321. 
Chocolate, 293. 

and Rice Pudding, 215. 

Balls, 214. 

Bavarian Cream, 193. 

Blanc Mange, 191. 

Bread Pudding, 213. 

Cake, 248, 258. 

Cake, Lowney's, 263. 

Cake, Plain, 248. 

Cake, Simple, 256. 

Charlotte Russe, 192. 

Condensed Milk, 294. 

Cookies, 264. 

Cream, 195. 

Cream Custard, 193. 

Cream Pie, 240. 

Cream Sauce, 235. 

Dominoes, 264. 

Emergency, 293. 

Fig Ice Cream, 281. 

Filling, Rich, 274. 

Filling, Simple, 275. 

Frosting, 269. 

Frosting, Rich, 269. 

Frozen, 284. 

Hermits, Lowney's, 263. 

Ice Cream, 282, 283. 

Jumbles, 262. 

Junket, 196. 

Junket Ice Cream, 282. 

Macaroons, 265. 

Mould, 192. 



INDEX 



353 



Chocolate, continued. 

Marshmallow Cake, 255. 

Mousse, 284. 

Nut Cakes, 251. 

Nut Pudding, 214. 

Nut Pudding, Steamed, 215. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream, 282, 

Plain, 293. 

Pound Cake, 249. 

Pudding, Imperial, 211. 

Pudding, Steamed, 216. 

Raisin Cake, 249. 

Raisin Pudding, 214. 

Raspberry Meringue, 196. 

Sauce, 195. 

Souffle, Baked, 213. 

Souffle, Frozen, 285. 

Sponge Cake, 250. 

Swedish Meringues, 263. 

Trifle, 193. 

Wafers, 261. 

Walnut Cake, 250. 

Walnut Wafers, 262. 
Chops, Baked, 86. 

Broiled French, 87. 

Broiled Loin, 87. 

Lamb, Breaded, 85. 

Lamb or Mutton, 86. 

Lamb, stuffed, 86. 

Lamb, with Soubise Sauce, 86. 

Pan-broiled, 87. 

Pork, Baked, 88. 

Pork, Broiled, 88. 

Pork, Sauted, 88. 

Veal, 84. 

Venison, 96. 
Chow Chow, 320. 
Chowder, Corn, 51. 

Clam, 52. 

Crab, 53. 

Fish, 52. 

Lobster, 53. 

New England, 52. 

Potato, 51. 

Salt Cod Fish, 53. 

Shrimp, 53. 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 226. 
Chutnev, 321. 
Cider Cup, 297. 
Cinnamon Water, 333. 
Citron Pie, 238. 

Preserved, 309. 
Clam Bisque, 54, 55. 



Clam, continued. 

Broth, 341. 

Cocktail, 36. 

Chowder, 52. 

Fritters, 72. 

Steamed, 72. 
Clams on the Half Shell, 36. 
Claret, Cup, 297. 

Sauce 230. 
Club Sadwiches, 189. 
Cocktail, Clam, 36. 

Oyster, 36. 
Cocoa Almond Cream, 194. 

Brandy, 294. 

Breakfast, 294. 

Cake, 249. 

Cocoanut Cookies, 265. 

Cocoanut Cream, 285. 

Cream, 194. 

Frapp^, 282. 

Frosting, 269. 

Froth, 196. 

Fruit Pudding, 215. 

Ice Cream, 284. 

Macaroon Ice Cream, 285. 

Nougat Filling, 275. 

Tutti-frutti Cream, 194. 

Nut Cream Ice, 286. 
Cocoanut Candy, 302. 

Cornstarch Mould, 200. 

Filling, 276. 

Frosting, 272. 

Moulds with Chocolate Sauce, 195. 

Pie, 238. 
Cod Fish, Salt, Chowder, 53. 
Coffee, Black, 296. 

Boiled, 295, 296. 

Custard, 198. 

Filling, 276. 

French, 296. 

Frosting, 271. 

Ice Cream, 286. 

Iced, 296. 

Mousse, 288. 

Sauce, 230. 
Compote of Figs, 212. 
Consomme, 57. 

k I'ltalienne, 58. 

au Riz, 58. 

Chicken, 58. 

Chicken, with Custard, 59. 

Chicken, with Macaroni, 59. 

Swiss, 58. 



354 



INDEX 



Consomm^, continued. 

Vegetable, 57. 

with Barley, 57. * 

with Claret, 57. 

with Eggs, 57. 
College Pudding, 220. 
Cookies, Chocolate, 264. 

Cocoa Cocoanut, 265. 

Nut, 260. 

Sand, 260. 

Sugar, 260. 
Cordial, Egg, 335. 

Orange Egg, 335. 
Corn, 97, 100. 

Cake, Spider, 165. 

Canned, 307. 

Chowder, 51. 

Fritters, 170. 

Muffins, 164. 

Oysters, 150. 

Soup, 45. 
Corn Meal, Gruel, 337. 

Mush, 111. 

Mush, Fried, 111. 

Mush, Sauted, 111. 
Cornstarch Mould, Cocoanut, 200. 

Fruit, 200. 

Pineapple, 200. 

Pudding, 200. 
Cornucopias, 264. 
Cottage Pudding, 224. 

Steamed, 224. 
Cowslips, 100. 
Crab Apple Jelly, 312. 
Crab Apples, Preserved, 308. 
Crab, Bisque, 54. 

Canapes, 34. 

Chowder, 53. 

Gumbo Soup, 61. 
Crabs, Fried Soft-shelled, 75. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

in Red Pepper, 74. 
Cracker Gruel, 337. 
Crackers, Browned, 37. 

Cheese, 37. 
Cranberry Jellv, 313. 

Pie, 237, 238. 

Tarts, 243. 
Cream, Almond Bavarian, 208. 

Banana Bavarian, 207. 

Bavarian, 206. 

Bavarian Ribbon, 208. 

Brandy Sauce, 229. 



Cream, continued. 

Candy, 301. 

Caramel Bavarian, 208. 

Chocolate, 195. 

Chocolate Bavarian, 207. 

Cocoa, 194. 

Cocoa Almond, 194. 

Cocoa Cocoanut, 285. 

Cocoa Tutti-frutti, 194. 

Coffee Bavarian, 206. 

Filling, 276. 

Frangipane, 242. 

Ginger Bavarian, 207. 

Itahan, 207. 

Maple Italian, 208. 

Peach or Apricot, 207. 

Pie, 252. 

Pineapple Bavarian, 206. 

Puffs, 259. 

Raspberry Bavarian, 206. 

Rice Bavarian, 209. 

Sauce, 229. 

Sherry Sauce, 229. 

Strawberry Bavarian, 206. 

Toast, 339. 
Creamy Sauce, 228. 
Creme Frite, 140. 
Creoles, 261. 
Crescents, 160. 
Crisps, 37. 

a la Russe, 245. 

Lemon, 244. 

Orange, 244. 
Croquettes, Chicken, 134. 

Cream, 227. 

Fish, 134. 

Lobster, 133. 

Meat, Rice, and Tomato, 133. 

Potato, 152. 

Rice, 154. 

Rice and Tomato, 154. 

Sauce for, 134. 

Shad Roe, 133. 

Surprise, 153. 

Sweetbread and Mushrooms, 134. 

Sweet Rice, 154. 

Tomato, 155. 

Veal, 137. 
Croustades, 144. 

Roll, 141. 
Croutons, 37. 
Crown Roast, 85. 
Crullers. 266. 



INDEX 



355 



Cucumber Ketchup, 322. 
Cucumber, Pickled, 318, 319. 

Pickle, Sweet, 318. 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Soup, 45. 
Cucumbers, 100. 

Bechamel, 148. 

Boiled, 100. 

Fried, 100. 

in Aspic, 136. 

Scalloped, 148. 
Cumquat Fritters, 170. 
Cup, Champagne, 297. 

Cider, 297. 

Claret, 297. 
Curagoa Filling, 276. 
Currant, and Raspberry Jelly, 313. 

and Raspberry Preserve, 314. 

Cake, 251. 

Jelly, 313. 

Jelly Sauce, 120. 

Pie, 238. 

Punch, 298. 

Sauce, 230. 

Spiced, 317. 

Water, 333. 
Currants, 299. 

Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 309. 
Curry of Game, 141. 
Custard, Arrowroot, 197. 

Banana, 197. 

Caramel, Baked, 198, 199. 

Cheese, 325. 

Chocolate Cream, 193. 

Coffee, 198. 

Fruit, 197. 

Pie, 238. 

Rennet, 341. 

Sauce, 230. 

Sherry, Baked, 198. 

Soft, 197. 

Soft Caramel, 198. 

Strawberry, 197. 

Vanilla, Baked, 198. 
Cutlets, Veal, 83. 

Damson Jelly, 313. 

Dandelions, 97, 100. 

Danish Pudding, 202. 

Date, and Almond Filling, 277. 

Bread, 158. 

Filling, 276. 



Date, continued. 

Pie, 239. 

Pudding, 227. 

Whip, 209. 
Dominoes, 264. 
Doughnuts, 266. 
Dressing, Boiled, 174. 

Boiled Cream, 174. 

Boiled Salad, 174. 

Butter Salad, 173. 

Cream, 174. 

French, 173. 

Horse-radish Cream, 174, 175. 

Mayonnaise, 172, 173. 

Mayonnaise Cream, 173. 
Drops, Molasses, 267. 

Sponge, 260. 
Duchesse Pudding, 213. 
Duck, Roast Tame, 95. 

Wild, 95. 
Dumpling, Apple, 218. 

Blackberry, 223. 

Raspberry, 223. 
Dutch Apple Cake, 163. 

Eclairs, 259. 

Egg, and Lemon, 336. 

and Milk Punch, 335. 

Balls, 38. 

Cordial, 335. 

Muffins, 163. 

Nogg, 335. 

Sandwiches, 189. 
Egg Plant, 101. 

Baked in Shell, 150. 

Fried, 101. 
Eggs, 112. 

and Tomatoes, Scrambled, 327. 

Baked, 112. 

Bechamel, 327. 

Creamed, 327. 

Fluffed, 113. 

Fried, 114. 

Goldenrod, 116. 

Hard Cooked, 112. 

in Aspic, 136. 

on Toast, Poached, 327. 

Poached, 113. 

Poached a la Frangaise, 113. 

Poached in Tomato, 113. 

Scrambled, 114. 

Soft Cooked, 112. 

Stuffed, 116. 



356 



INDEX 



English Pudding, 228. 
Entire Wheat, Bread, 157. 

Gruel, 336. 

Muffins, 164. 
Entrdes, Vegetable, 147. 
Essence, Beef, 340. 

Farina Balls, 148. 
Favorite Sandwiches, 189. 
Fig, Cake, 255. 

Filling, 276. 

Frosting, 273. 

Pudding, Steamed, 227. 

Sandwiches, 339. 
Figs, 299. 

Compote of, 212. 

Stewed, 342. 
Filberts, 301. 
Filbert Bread, 158. 
Fillet, of Beef, 77. 

of lieef. Broiled, 78. 

of Beef, Broiled with Oysters, 78. 

of Beef, Sauted, 78. 

of Flounder, Rolled, 135. 

of Halibut, Baked, 67. 

of Sole, Fried, 68. 

of Sweetbread, Baked, 142. 
Fillets, Fish, 68. 

of Fish, Deviled, 68. 
Filling, Caramel, 275. 

Cocoanut, 276. 

Cocoa Nougat, 275. 

Coffee, 276. 

Cream, 276. 

Curagoa, 276. 

Date, 276. 

Date and Almond, 277. 

Fig, 276. 

Fudge, 278. 

Lemon, 277. 

Maple, 277. 

Marshmallow, 277. 

Marshmallow Fudge, 278. 

Mince Pie, 241. 

Nougat, 277. 

Nut and Raisin, 278. 

Nut Fudge, 278. 

Orange, 278. 

Peach, 279. 

Pineapple, 279. 

Rich Chocolate, 274. 

Simple Chocolate, 275. 

Tutti-frutti Fudge, 278. 



Fingers, Lady, 259. 
Fish, 13, 64. 

Chowder, 52. 

Crocjuettes, 134. 

Fillets, 64. 

Fillets of, Deviled, 68. 

Forcemeat, 64. 

Garni shings, 64. 

Quenelles, 40. 

Stock, 64. 

Timbales, 130. 
Flame, Apple, 217. 
Flamingo, Apple, 217. 
Flannel Cakes, 168. 
Flaxseed Tea, 333. 
Floating Island, 199. 

Strawberry, 199. 
Flounder, Fillet of. Rolled, 135. 
Flour Ball, 337. 

Gruel, 337. 
Fontage Cups, 133. 

Mock Terrapin in, 131. 
Fondant Frosting, 273. 
Frapp6, Cafd, 292. 

Cocoa, 282. 

Grape, 292. 

Orange, 292. 
French Ice Cream, 283. 
Fritter, Batter, 149, 169. 

Beans, 39. 
Fritters, Apple, 169. 

Banana, 169. 

Cauliflower, 170. 

Celery, 170. 

Corn, 170. 

Cumquat, 170. 

Orange, 170. 

Parsnip, 170. 

Peach, 170. 

Pear, 170. 

Salsify, 170. 

Shell, 171. 

Tomato, 170, 
Frog's Legs, 143. 

h la B6chamel, 143. 

Allemande, 143. 
Frosting, Boiled, 270. 

Brown Sugar, 274. 

Caramel, 270, 271. 

Chocolate, 269. 

Cocoa, 269. 

Cocoanut, 272. 

Coffee, 271. 



INDEX 



357 



Frosting, continued. 

Confectioners', 270. 

Fig, 273. 

Fondant, 273. 

Fudge, 271. 

Gelatine, 271. 

Maple, 272. 

Marshmallow, 272, 274. 

Marshmallovv Nut, 272. 

Mocha, 274. 

Nougat, 273. 

Nut Fudge, 271. 

Orange, 272. 

Ornamental, 273. 

Rich Cliocolate, 269. 

Tutti-frutti, 272. 

AVine, 273. 
Fricassee of Oysters and Mushrooms, 

329. 
Fricassee of Veal, 82. 
Froth, Cocoa, 196. 
Fruit, Biscuit, 163. 

Cake, 254. 

Cake, Raised, 254. 

Custard, 197. 

Mousses, 288. 

Punch, 297. 

Salad, Hot, 330. 

Sauce, 231. 

Snowballs, 223. 
Fruits and Nuts, 299. 
Fudge Filling, 278. 

Frosting, 271. 

Nut Frosting, 271. 

Game, 95. 

Curry of, 141. 

Salmi of, 140. 
Garnishings for Fish, 64. 

for Soup, 38. 
Gateau, Peach, 204. 
Gelatine Frosting, 271. 
Gingerbread, Hard, 266. 

Hot Water, 268. 

New York, 267. 

Sour Milk, 268. 

Superior, 268. 
Ginger Ice Cream, 286. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Snaps, 268. 
Glacd, Souffle, 290. 
Gluten Bread, 158. 
Gold Cake, 251. 



Golden Parfait, 289. 
Gooseberries, Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 308. 
Gooseberrj'^ Tarts, 244. 
Goose, Roast Green, 94, 
Graham, Bread, 157. 

Griddle Cakes, 167. 

Muffins, 164. 

Plum Pudding, 226. 
Grape Butter, 312. 

Frapp^, 292. 

Jelly, 314. 

Sauce, 231. 

Water, 333. 
Grape Fruit, 299. 

Marmalade, 315. 
Grapes, 299. 
Green Grape Jam, 316. 
Greens, 100. 

Green Tomatoes, Preserved, 311. 
Green Turtle Soup, 62. 
Griddle Cakes, Bread, 167. 

Graham, 167. 

Hominy, 168. 

Rice, 168. 

Sour Milk, 167. 

Sweet Milk, 168. 
Gruel, Barley, 336. 

Corn Meaf, 337. 

Cracker, 337. 

Entire Wheat, 336. 

Flour, 337. 

Oatmeal, 337. 

Rice, 338. 

Haddock, Baked, 67, 
Halibut, Fillet of, Baked, 67. 
Ham, Boiled, 88. 

Broiled, 88. 
Hamburg Steak k la Tartare, 81. 
Ham Canapes, 34. 
Haricot of Ox Tails, 140. 
Hash, Corned Beef, 78. 
Hermits, 261. 
Hominv, and Corn Muffins, 164. 

Boiled, 110. 

Crescents, 148. 

Griddle Cakes, 168. 
Huckleberries, Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 309. 

Ice, Cocoa Nut Cream, 286. 
Plain Water, 290. 



358 



INDEX 



Ice Cream, Banana, 283. 

Brown Bread, 283. 

Burnt Almond, 286. 

Caramel, 286. 

Chocolate, 282, 283. 

Chocolate Fig, 281. 

Chocolate Junket, 282. 

Chocolate Philadelphia, 282. 

Cocoa, 284. 

Cocoa Macaroon, 285. 

Coffee, 286. 

French, 283. 

Ginger, 286. 

Macaroon, 286. 

Maple, 287. 

Nougat, 287. 

Orange, 287. 

Peach, 287. 

Philadelphia, 283. 

Pineapple, 287. 

Pistachio, 287. 

Plain, 285. 

Plum Pudding, 287. 

Strawberry, 287. 

Wine, 288. 
Indian Pudding, Baked, 225. 

Steamed, 225. 
Indian Rice Pudding, 225. 

with Apples, 225. 
Indian Tapioca Pudding, 225. 
Irish Moss Lemonade, 334. 
Italian Sauce, 234. 

Jam, Blackberry, 316. 

Black Currant, 316. 

Green Grape, 316. 

Raspberr}^, 316. 

Red and White Currant, 316. 

Ripe Grape, 316. 

Strawberry, 316. 
Jelly, Apple, 312. 

Aspic, 128. 

Barberry, 313. 

Calf's Foot, 341. 

Cherry, 313. 

Crab Apple, 312. 

Cranberry, 313. 

Currant, 313. 

Currant and Raspberry, 313. 

Damson, 313. 

Fruit, Macedoine, 205. 

Grape, 314. 

Grape Fruit, 203. 



Jelly, continued. 

Lemon, 202, 203. 

Orange, 203. 

Prune, 205. 

Quick Aspic, 129. 

Quince, 314. 

Raspberry, 313. 

Roll, 253. 

Russian, 204. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Sauterne, 204. 

Strawberry, 313. 

Wine, 203. 
Jumbles, Chocolate, 262. 
Junket, 211. 

Chocolate, 196. 

Ketchup, Cucumber, 322. 

Mushroom, 322. 

Tomato, 321, 322. 
Kidney Bean Soup, 43. 
Kidney Omelet, 115. 
Kidneys, en Brochette, 139. 

with Oysters, 139. 
Kirsch Sauce, 232. 
Kohl Slaw, 99. 
Koumiss, 335. 

Lady Fingers, 259. 

Lalla Rookh, 292. 

Lamb Chops, Breaded, 85. 

Stuffed, 86. 

with Soubise Sauce, 86. 
Lamb or Mutton Chops, 86. 
Lamb, Rissoles, 145. 

Terrapin, 328. 
Layer Cake, 251. 
Lemonade, 297, 333. 

Irish Moss, 334. 
Lemon Crisps, 244. 

Filling, 277. 

Pie, 239. 

Queens, 258. 

Sauce, 232. 

Sherbet, 291. 

Tarts, 244. 

Water Ice, 291. 

Whey, 336. 
Lentil, Cakes, Sauted, 101. 

Soup, 51. 
Lentils, 101. 

Mashed, 101. 
Lettuce, Boiled, 100. 



INDEX 



359 



Lettuce Sandwiches, 190. 

Lima Beans, 98. 

Liver, Calf's, Fried, 138. 

Loaf, 144. 
Lobster, a la Newburg, 328. 

Bisque, 54. 

Broiled Live, 75. 

Canapes, 34. 

Chowder, 53. 

Creamed, 74, 327. 

Croquettes, 133. 

Curried, 75. 

Curried in Rice Timbales, 135. 

Deviled, 74. 

How to open a, 73. 

in Aspic, 136. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

in Red Peppers, 75. 

Mousse, 130. 

Rissoles, 146. 

Salad Sandwiches, 189. 

Scalloped, 74. 

Supreme, 75. 

Timbales, 131. 

with Mushrooms, 328. 

with Pimolas, 328. 
Loin of Veal a la Jardiniere, 83. 

Macaroni, Baked, 102. 

Baked with Tomatoes, 102. 

Boiled, 102. 

Timbales, 149. 

with Sauce, 102. 
Macaroon Ice Cream, 286. 
Macaroons, 266. 

Chocolate, 265. 
Macedoine, Bavarian, 208. 

Fruit Jelly, 205. 

of Orange, 203. 
Mackerel, Broiled, 65. 
Maple, Filling, 277. 

Frosting, 272. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Parfait, 289. 

Sauce, 232. 

Sugar Candy, 302. 
Maraschino Sauce, 233. 
Marble Cake, 253. 
Marmalade, Apple, 315. 

Apricot, 315. 

Grape Fruit, 315. 

Orange, 315. 

Peach, 316. 



Marmalade, continued. 

Plum, 315. 

Prune, 316. 

Quince, 316. 
Marrow, Balls, 38. 

Bones with Tenderloin Steak, 139. 
Marshmallow Cake, 255. 

Fining, 277. 

Frosting, 272, 274. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Nut Frosting, 272. 
Meat, Rice, and Tomato Croquettes, 

133. 
Melons, 300. 

Meringue, Chocolate Raspberry, 196. 
Meringues, 267. 

Mushroom, 265. 
Milk, Albuminized, S36. 

and Water Bread, 157. 

Bread, 156. 

Punch, 298, 334. 

Toast, 338. 
Mince Pie, 239. 

Fining, 241. 
Mint Julep, 298. 
Mocha, Cake, 255. 

Frosting, 274. 
Mock Turtle Soup, 62. 
Molasses Candj-, 302. 

Drops, 267. 
Mould, Chocolate, 192. 
Mousse, Chicken, 129. 

Chocolate, 284, 288. 

Coffee, 288. 

Lobster, 130. 

Strawberry, 288. 
Mousses, Fruit, 288. 
Muffins, Berrv, 163. 

Corn, 164. ' 

Egg, 163. 

Entire Wheat, 164. 

Fried Rye, 165. 

Graham, 164. 

Hominy and Corn, 164. 

Oat, 166. 

Oatmeal, 161. 

Rye, 164. 

Raised, 161. 
Mulligatawny Soup, 61. 
Mush, Corn Meal, 111. 
Mushroom Ketchup, 322. 

Meringues, 265. 

Mixture, 86. 



360 



INDEX 



Mushroom, continued. 

Omelet, 115. 

Pot Pourri, 152. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Soup, 60. 
Mushrooms, Baked, 151. 

Broiled, 150. 

Deviled, 151. 

Scalloped, 151. 

with Oj'sters, 151. 

with Tomatoes, 151. 
Mustard Pickle, 320. 
Mutton, 14. 

Boiled, 84. 

Braised, 85. 

Broth, 340. 

Ragout of, 85. 

Roast, 84. 

Saddle of, Roast, 85. 

Nasturtium Sandwiches, 190. 
Nesselrode Pudding, 290. 
Nests, Apple, 219. 
New England Chowder, 52. 
New York Gingerbread, 267. 
Noodle Balls, 39. 
Noodles, 39. 
Nougat Filling, 277. 

Frosting, 273. 

Ice Cream, 287. 
Nut and Olive Canapfe, 35. 
Nut and Raisin Filling, 278. 
Nut Cakes, Chocolate, 251. 
Nut Cake, 252. 

Cookies, 260. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Wafers, 262. 

Oatmeal, Caudle, 338. 

Gruel, 337. 

Muffins, 161. 

Old-fashioned, 109. 

Wafers, 342. 

Water, 334. 
Oat Muffins, 166. 
Oats, Rolled, 109. 
Okra, 101. 

Scalloped, 101. 

Stewed, 101. 
Omelet, 114. 

Bacon, 115. 

Cheese, 115, 325. 

Creamed Salt Fish, 115. 



Omelet, continued. 

Creamj^, 115. 

Foamy, 115. 

French, 116. 

German, 117. 

Kidney, 115. 

Mushroom, 115. 

Spanish, 117. 
Onion Soup, 48. 
Onions, 97, 101. 

Baked, 101. 

in White Sauce, 101. 

Scalloped, 101. 

Stuffed, 101. 
Orangeade, 297. 
Orange, Cake, 252. 

Chocolate Sauce, 235. 

Crisps, 244. 

Egg Cordial, 335. 

Filling, 278. 

Frappe, 292. 

Fritters, 170. 

Frosting, 272. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Marmalade, 315. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Sauce, 124, 233. 

Shortcake, 166. 

Souffle, 221. 

Trifle, 204. 

Water Ice, 291. 
Oranges, 300. 

on a Bed of Rice, 220. 
Ox-tail Soup, 63. 
Ox Tails, Haricot of, 140. 
Oj'ster, Bisque, 55. 

Bisque a la Reine, 55. 

Cocktail, 36. 

Crabs, 143. 

Crabs with Poached Eggs, 143. 

Gumbo Soup, 61. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Stew, 70. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Oyster Plant, see Salsify, 101. 
Oysten;, and Celery, Creamed in 

. Fontage Cups, 132. 

and Mushrooms, Fricassee of, 329. 

Broiled, 71. 

Celeried, 329. 

Fried, 71. 

in Aspic, 136. 



INDEX 



361 



Oysters, continued. 
on the Half Shell, 36. 
Panned, 71. 
Saut6d, 71, 328. 
Scalloped, 69. 
Spindled, 70. 
Supreme, 71. 

Parfait. Cafe, 289. 

Golden, 289. 

Maple, 289. 

Silver, 288. 
Parker House Rolls, 159. 
Parsnip Fritters, 170. 
Parsnips, 97, 101. 

Sauted, 101. 
Partridge in Aspic, 136. 
Paste, Chopped, 236. 

Plain, 236. 

Puff, 237, 242. 
Pastrj', 235. 

Pate de Foie Gras, Mock, 144. 
Pate Shells, 241. 
Peach, Batter, 220. 

Butter, 311. 

Canape, 330. 

Duff, 223. 

Filling, 279. 

Fritters, 170. 

Gateau, 204. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Marmalade, 316. 

Pie, 239. 

Shortcake, 166. 

Tarts, 244. 
Peaches, 300. 

Brandied, 311. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 309. 

Spiced, 317. 
Peanut, Brittle, 303. 

Soup, 60. 
Peanuts, 301. 
Pear, Chipped, 314. 

Fritters, 170. 
Pears, 300. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Pea Soup, 46. 
Peas, 97, 104. 

Canned, 307. 
Pecans, 301. 
Peppers, Stuffed, 102, 153. 



Pheasant in Aspic, 136. 
Philadelphia Ice Cream, 283. 
PiccaliUi, 320. 
Pickle, Mustard, 320. 

Sweet Cucumber, 318. 

Sweet Tomato, 317. 
Pie, Apple, 237. 

Blackberry, 237. 

Blueberry, 237. 

Chicken, bid-fashioned English, 92. 

Chocolate Cream, 240. 

Citron, 238. 

Cocoanut, 238. 

Cranberry, 237, 238. 

Cream, 252. 

Currant, 238. 

Custard, 238. 

Date, 239. 

Lemon, 2.39. 

Mince, 239. 

Peach, 239. 

Plum, 239. 

Prune, 239. 

Pumpkin, 240. 

Rhubarb, 240. 

Squash, 240. 
Pig, Roast Little, 87. 
Pig's Feet, Broiled, 138. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 154. 
Pineapi^le, Canape, 331. 

Cornstarch Mould, 200. 

Filling, 279. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Pudding, 212. 

Shortcake, 167. 

Tarts, 244. 

Water Ice, 291. 
Pineapples, 300. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Pistachio Ice Cream, 287. 
Plum, Marmalade, 315. 

Pie, 239. 

Pudding, Christmas, 226. 

Pudding Ice Cream, 287. 
Plums, 300. 

Brandied, 311. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Popovers, 165. 
Pork, 15. 

Chops, Baked, 88. 

Chops, Broiled, 88. 



362 



INDEX 



Pork, continued. 

Chops, Sauted, 88. 

Roast, 87. 
Potato, a la Maitre d 'Hotel, 107. 

Balls, 105. 

Balls, French, 107. 

Chips, 106. 

Chowder, 51. 

Croquettes, 152. 

Hashed Brown, 106. 

Puff, 106. 

Soup, 48. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Potatoes, Baked, 107. 

Boiled, 104. 

Browned Sweet, 107. 

Creamed, 105. 

Franconia, 107. 

French Fried, 106. 

Italian, 107. 

Lyonnaise, 105. 

Mashed, 104. 

Scalloped, 105. 

Southern Sweet, 97, 108. 

Stewed, 105. 

Stuffed, 106. 
Pot Roast, 80. 
Poultry, 15, 89. 
Pound Cake, 253. 

Preserve, Currant and Raspberry, 
314. 

Tutti-frutti, 312. 
Prune, Marmalade, 316. 

Pie, 239. 

Souffle, 210. 
Prunes, Stewed, 342. 
Pudding, Apple Batter, 220. 

Apple Indian, 220. 

Apple Rice, 211. 

Baked Indian, 225. 

Bread, 222. 

Bread Queen, 222. 

Buttered Bread, 222. 

Caramel Rice, 223. 

Chocolate and Rice, 215. 

Chocolate Bread, 213. 

Chocolate Nut, 214. 

Chocolate Raisin, 214. 

Christmas Plum, 226. 

Cocoa Fruit, 215. 

Cocoanut, 222. 

College, 220. 

Cornstarch, 200. 



Pudding, continued. 

Cottage, 224. 

Cracker Queen, 222. 

Danish, 202. 

Date, 227. 

Diplomatic, 209. 

Duchesse, 213. 

English, 228. 

Fruit Cornstarch, 200. 

Graham Plum, 226. 

Imperial Chocolate, 211. 

Indian Rice, 225. 

Indian Steamed, 225. 

Indian Tapioca, 225. 

Nesselrode, 290. 

Pineapple, 212. 

Rice, 226. 

Roley Foley, 227. 

Roman, 212. 

Snow, 212. 

Sponge Cocoanut, 202. 

Steamed Blueberry, 222. 

Steamed Chocolate, 216. 

Steamed Cottage, 224. 

Steamed Fig, 227. 

Tapioca, 201. 

Yorkshire, 79. 
Puffs, Cream, 259. 
Pumpkin Pie, 240. 
Punch, Currant, 238. 

Egg and Milk, 335. 

Fruit, 297. 

Milk, 298, 334. 
Puree, Black Bean, 50. 

Quail in Aspic, 136. 

Queen Pudding, Bread, 222. 

Cracker, 222. 
Queens, Lemon, 258. 
Quenelles, Chicken, 40. 

Fish, 40. 
Quince, Jelly, 314. 

Marmalade, 316. 
Quinces, 300. 

and Apples, Canned, 306. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 

Ragotit of Mutton, 85. 

Rarebit, Cheese and Tomato, 326. 

Welsh, 325. 
Raspberries, Canned, 307. 

Preserved, 314. 



INDEX 



363 



Raspberry, Bombe GIac6, 291. 

Dumpling, 223. 

Jam, 316. 

Jelly, 313. 

Shortcake, 167. 
Red and White Currant Jam, 316. 
Rennet Custard, 341. 
Rhubarb Pie, 240. 
Rice, and Corn Muffins, 165. 

and Tomato Croquettes, 154. 

Balls, 38. 

Boiled, 102, 110. 

Croquettes, 154. 

Croquettes, Sweet, 154. 

Griddle Cakes, 168. 

Gruel, 338. 

or Macaroni Stuffing for Peppers, 
153. 

Pudding, 226. 

Pudding, Steamed, 223. 

Soup, 46. 

Steamed, 110. 

Timbale Cases, 135. 
Rissoles, Cheese, 145. 

Chicken, 144. 

Lamb, 145. 

Lobster, 146. 

Mushroom, 145. 

Oyster, 145. 

Sardine, 145. 

Sweetbread, 145. 

Veal, 145. 
Roley Poley Pudding, 227. 
Roll, Jelly, 253. 

Sultana, 291. 
Rolled Oats, 109. 
Rolls, Parker House, 159. 

Swedish, 160. 
Roman Pudding, 212. 
Rum Sauce, 233. 
Rusk, 161. 
Rye Bread, 157. 

Muffins, 164. 

Muffins, Fried, 165. 

Sabayon Sauce, 233. 
Salad, Apple, 185. 

Aspic Jelly, 175. 

Beet, 175. 

Butter Bean, 175. 

Cabbage, 176. 

Cauliflower, 176. 

Celery, 176. 



Salad, continued. 

Cheese, 176, 177. 

Cherry, 176. 

Chestnut, 177. 

Chicken, 177, 178. 

Chicory, 178. 

Chiffonade, 178. 

Crab, 179. 

Cucumber, 178. 

Egg, 179. 

Endive, 179. 

Escarole, 179. 

French Fruit, 183. 

Grape Fruit, 185. 

Hot Fruit, 330. 

Lettuce, 179, 180. 

Lima Bean, 175. 

Lobster, 180. 

Macedoine, 180. 

Martin, 184. 

Onion, 181. 

Orange, 186. 

Pineapple, 186. 

Potato, 181. 

Rice and Vegetable, 181. 

Salmon, 182. 

Sardine, 181. 

Scallop, 182. 

Shad Roe, 182. 

Shrimp, 182. 

Spinach, 182. 

Stuffed Tomato, 183. 

Sweetbread, 183. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber, 183. 

Sweet Fruit, 186. 

Sweet Grape Fruit, 186. 

Tomato and Nut, 183. 

Vegetable, 184. 

Vegetable Oyster or Salsify, 185. 

Waldorf, 185. 
Sally Lunn, 163. 
Salmi of Game, 140. 
Salmon Canapes, 35. 

Creamed in Rice Timbales, 135. 

Steamed, 65. 
Salsify, 97, 101. 

Fried, 101. 

Fritters, 101. 

Sauted, 101. 
Sand Cookies, 260. 
Sandwich, Anchovy, 187. 

Bread and Butter, 339. 

Raw Beef, 339. 



364 



INDEX 



Sandwiches, 187. 

Caviare, 187. 

Celery, 187. 

Cheese, 188. 

Chicken, 188. 

Club, 189. 

Cucumber, 188. 

Egg, 189. 

Favorite, 189. 

Fig, 190. 

Ginger, 190. 

Jelly, 190. 

Lettuce, 190. 

Lobster Salad, 189. 

Nasturtium, 190. 

Orange, 190. 

Oyster, 190. 

Sardines, 190. 

Shrimp, 190. 

Striped Bread, 190. 

Tomato and Horse-radish, 189. 

Water Cress, 190. 
Sardine Canapes, 35. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Sandwiches, 190. 
Sauce, AUemande, 118. 

Apple, 228. 

Apricot, 228. 

Banana, 228. 

Bechamel, 118. 

B^arnaise, 119. 

Black Butter, 119. 

Bread, 119. 

Brown, 118. 

Browned Bread, 119. 

Brown Sugar, 234. 

Caper, 120. 

Caramel, 229. 

Celery, 120. 

Champagne, 120. 

Cherry, 229. 

Chestnut, 120. 

Chih, 321. 

Chocolate, 234. 

Chocolate Cream, 235. 

Claret, 230. 

Coffee, 230. 

Cream, 229. 

Cream Brandy, 229. 

Cream Sherry, 229. 

Creamy, 228. 

Cucumber, 121. 

Currant, 230. 



Sauce, continued. 
Currant Jelly, 120. 
Curry, 120. 
Custard, 230. 
Egg, 121. 
Espagnole, 121. 
Foamy, 230, 231. 
for Croquettes, 134. 
Fruit, 231. 
Grape, 231. 
Hard, 232. 
HoUandaise, 121. 
Horse-radish, 122. 
Horse-radish, HoUandaise, 122. 
Itahan, 234. 
Kirsch, 232. 
Lemon, 232. 
Lobster, 122. 
Lobster HoUandaise, 122. 
Madeira, 122. 
Maitre d'Hotel, 122. 
Maple, 232. 
Maraschino, 233. 
Milanaise, 123. 
Mint, 123. 
Mushroom, 123. 
Mustard, 123. 
Ohve, 124. 
Onion, 124. 
Orange, 124, 233. 
Orange Chocolate, 235. 
Orange HoUandaise, 124. 
Oyster, 124. 
Pepper, 125. 
Piquante, 125. 
Port, 125. 
Poulette, 125. 
Ravigote, 125. 
Rum, 233. 
Sabayon, 233. 
Shrimp, 126. 
Sorrel, 126. 
Soubise, 86, 126. 
Stirling, 232. 
Strawberry, 234. 
Supreme, 126. 
Tartare, 126. 
Tomato, 126. 
Tomato Bearnaise, 119. 
Tomato Cream, 127. 
Trianon, 127. 
Vanilla, 234. 
Velout6, 127. 



INDEX 



365 



Sauce, continued. 

White, 118. 

Yellow Egg, 121. 
Sausages, 89. 
Scallops, Fried, 72. 

Fried in Batter, 73. 

Scalloped, 73. 
Shad, Planked, 69. 

Roe Croquettes, 133. 
Shell Fritters, 171. 
Shells, Pate, 241. 
Sherbet, Lemon, 291. 
Sherry Custard, Baked, 198. 
Shortcake, 166. 

Blackberry, 167. 

Orange, 166. 

Peach, 166. 

Pineapple, 167. 

RaspberrA^, 167. 

Strawberry, 167. 
Shrimp, Bisque Bretonne, 55. 

Chowder, 53. 

Cocktail, 36. 

in Aspic, 136. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Shrimps and Crabs, 74. 

with Tomatoes, 329. 
Silver, Cake, 252. 

Parfait, 288. 
Smelts, Fried, 65. 
Snowballs, Fruit, 223. 
Snow Pudding, 212. 

Puffs, 224. 
Sole, Fillets of. Fried, 68. 
Sorrel Soup, 47. 
Souffle, Apple, 218. 

Baked Chocolate, 213. 

Chicken, 129. 

Frozen Chocolate, 285. 

Glac6, 290. 

Orange, 221. 

Vanilla, 221. 
Soup, Accessories, 37. 

Artichoke, 42. 

Asparagus, 42. 

Baked Bean, 43, 

Bean, 42. 

Black Bean Pur^e, 50. 

Cabbage, 43. 

Carrot, 44. 

Cauliflower, 44. 

Celery, 44. 



Soup, continued. 

Chestnut, 45. 

Chicken Gumbo, 60. 

Corn, 45. 

Crab Gumbo, 61. 

Cream, 40. 

Cucumber, 45. 

Garnishings, 38. 

Green Turtle, 62. 

Kidney Bean, 43. 

Lentil, 51. 

Mock Turtle, 62. 

Mulligatawny, 61. 

Mushroom, 60. 

Onion, 46. 

O^^ster Gumbo, 61. 

Pea, 46. 

Peanut, 60. 

Potato, 48. 

Rice, 46. 

Sorrel, 47. 

Spinach, 47. 

Split Pea, 50. 

Squash, 47. 

St. Germain, 56. 

Stock, 41. 

Terrapin, 62. 

Tomato, 48. 

Tomato Bisque, 48. 

Tomato Cream, 48. 

Tomato with Stock, 49. 

Turnip, 49. 

Vegetable, 50. 

Water Cress, 49. 

White, 60. 
Spice Cake, 252. 
Spinach, 97, 100. 

Soup, 47. 
Sponge, Apple, 216. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 202. 

Drops, 260. 
Sponge Cake, Cold Water, 256. 

Cream, 257. 

Hot water, 256. 

Plain, 255. 

True, 257. 
Sprouts, Young Cabbage, 99. 
Squash, Baked, 103. 

Bread, 162. 

Pie, 240. 

Soup, 47. 

Summer, 102. 

Winter, 103. 



366 



INDEX 



Squares, Banbury, 243. 
Steak, Beef, Broiled, 81. 

Hamburg, a la Tartare, 81. 

Smothered in Onions, 81. 

Venison, 96. 
Stew, Venison, 330. 
St. Germain Soup, 56. 
Sticks, Almond, 243. 

Bread, 160. 
Sterling Sauce, 232. 
Stock, Brown, 56. 

Chicken, 60. 

Fish, 64. 

White Soup, 59. 
Strawberries, 300. 

Canned, 307. 

Preserved, 308. 
Strawberry, Bombe Glace, 291. 

Custard, 197. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Jam, 316. 

Jelly, 313. 

Mousse, 288. 

Sauce, 234. 

Shortcake, 234. 

Whip, 210, 342. 
Straws, Cheese, 243. 
Stuffing, 95. 

Chestnut, 94. 

for Peppers, Chicken, 93. 

for Peppers, Rice or Macaroni, 
153. 

for Peppers, Tomato, 153. 

Oyster, 94. 

Potato, 94. 
Succotash, 100. 
Sugar Cookies, 260. 
Sugar Sauce, Brown, 234. 

Syrup, 334. 
Sultana Roll, 291. 
Summer Squash, 102. 
Sunshine Cake, 258. 
Surprise Croquettes, 153. 
Swedish Meringues, Chocolate, 263. 

Rolls, 160. 
Sweetbread, and Chicken in Fontage 
Cups, 132. 

and Mushroom Croquettes, 134. 

and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups, 
131. 

Rissoles, 145. 
Sweetbreads, Baked, 142. 

Braised, 142. 



Sweetbreads, continued. 

Fillet of. Baked, 142. 

with Bacon, 329. 
Swiss Chard, 100. 

Consomm^, 58. 
Syllabub, 205. 

Strawberry, 205. 
Syrup, Sugar, 334. 

Taffy, Butter, 301. 
Tamarind Water, 334. 
Tapioca Cream, 201. 

Pudding, 201. 
Tartlets, Frangipane, 242. 
Tarts, 242. 

Apple, 243. 

Banbury, 243. 

Chantilly, 244. 

Cranberry, 243. 

Gooseberry, 244. 

Lemon, 244. 

Peach, 244. 

Pineapple, 244. 
Tea, 295. 

Beef, 340. 

Beef Frozen, 340. 

Flaxseed, 333. 

Iced, 295. 

Punch, 295. 

Russian, 295. 
Terrapin, Lamb, 328. 

Mock in Fontage Cups, 131. 

Soup, 62. 
Thimble Berries, Preserved, 308. 
Timbale Cases, 133. 

Rice, 135. 
Timbales, Chicken, 129. 

Fish, 130. 

Green Pea, 150. 

Imperial, 130. 

Lobster, 131. 

Macaroni, 149. 
Toast, Brown Bread, 339. 

Buttered, 338. 

Cream, 339. 

Dry, 338. 

Milk, 338. 

Water, 338. 
Tomato, and Cucumber Canapes, 35. 

and Horse-radish Sandwiches, 189. 

Bisque Soup, 48. 

Croquettes, 155. 

Forcemeat, 128. 



INDEX 



367 



Tomato, continued. 

Fritters, 170. 

Ketchup, 321, 322. 

Soup, 48. 

Stuffing for Peppers, 153. 

with Stock Soup, 49. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 103. 

Buttered, 330. 

Canned, 307. 

Fried, 103. 

in Aspic, 136. 

Pickled, 319. 

Preserved Ripe, 311. 

Sauted, 103. 

Scalloped, 103. 

Stuffed, 103. 
Tongue, Boiled, 138. 

Canapes, 35. 

in Aspic, 136. 
Tortoni Biscuit, 290. 
Trifle, Chocolate, 193. 
Tripe, Broiled Honeycomb, 141. 

in Batter, 142. 

Lyonnaise, 141. 

Ragout, 141. 
Trout, Sauted, 68. 
Turkey, Boned, 95. 

English, Roast, 95. 

Roast, 95. 
Turkish Pilaf, 154. 
Turnip Soup, 49. 
Turnips, 97. 

in White Sauce, 104. 
Tutti-frutti, Frosting, 272. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Preserve, 312. 

Vanilla, Custard, Baked, 198. 

Sauce, 234. 

Souffle, 221. 
Veal, 14. 

Braised, 84. 

Chops, 84. 

Croquettes, 137. 

Cutlets, 83. 

Fricassee, 82. 

Loaf, 137. 

Loin of, k la Jardiniere, 83. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Roast, 82. 

Roll, 138. 

Scalloped, 137. 

Stuffed, Roast, 82. 



Vegetable, Consomm6, 57. 

Cubes, 39. 

Entrees, 147. 

Soup, 50. 
Venison Chops, 96. 

Roast, 96. 

Steak, 96. 

Stew, 330. 

with Currant Jellv, 330. 
Vol-au-vent, 241, 242. 

Wafers, 262. 

Chocolate, 261. 

Chocolate Walnut, 262. 

Nut, 262. 

Oatmeal, 342. 
Waffles, 169. 
Walnut Bread, 158. 

Chocolate Cake, 250. 
Walnuts, 301. 

Pickled, 321. 
Water, Apple, 332. 

Barley, 332. 

Bread, 157. 

Cinnamon, 333. 

Currant, 333. 

Distilled, 333. 

Grape, 333. 

Oatmeal, 334. 

Tamarind, 334. 

Toast, 334. 
Water Ice, Lemon, 291. 

Orange, 291. 

Pineapple, 291. 

Plain, 290. 
Water Cress, Sandwiches, 190. 

Soup, 49. 
Watermelon, 300. 

Sweet Pickled, 318. 
Welsh Rarebit, 325. 
Wheat, Cracked, 110. 
Whey, Lemon, 336. 

Wine, 336. 
Whip, Strawberry, 210, 342. 
White Bait, Fried, 69. 
Wine Frosting, 273. 

Ice Cream, 288. 

Whey, 336. 
Winter Squash, 103. 

Yeast, 156. 

Yorkshire Pudding 79. 

Zweibach, 162. 



2gW>fEf5 

COCOA 

Is made from the choicest cocoa beans — the high- 
est priced — ground very fine, with a part of the 
cocoa butter pressed out to make it more digestible. 
Every atom of it is cocoa. It contains not one par- 
ticle of adulterant, substitute, coloring matter, or 
chemical. 

Lowney's Cocoa has a perfect natural flavor. 



COCOA SHOULD BE BOILED FROM THREE TO FIVE MINUTES, 
BUT THE MILK SHOULD NOT BE BOILED. 





HOCOLATE 



Lo>vney*s Milk Chocolate is a delicious con- 
fection and a most nourishing food. It is 
made of pure chocolate, the finest cream 
from our own herd of blooded Jersey cows, 
and pure vanilla, sweetened with the best 
granulated sugar, powdered in our own 
factory. 



IT IS GOOD FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES, PICNICS, 
AND AFTER MEALS 



#j^ 



Vanilla )weet 

f H O C OLAT E 



C 



The Reason this chocolate has a more re- 



fined flavor than others, is owing to the 
quality of the cocoa beans and the costly 
vanilla beans used. Price is a secondary 
consideration in buying the materials for 
this eating chocolate. The main thing is 
to make it perfect. Each of the materials 
is used as Mother Nature grew them. There 
is no "treatment" nor adulteration of any 
kind whatever. 



THAT IS WHY THE LOWNEY PRODUCTS 
ARE SO DIGESTIBLE 




"NAME ON EVERY PIECE" 

Chocolate Bonbons 

Are known and sold almost everywhere. The rea- 
son they have the largest sales in the world is that 
they are superfine goods at reasonable prices. 
They are made of Mother Nature's own fruits and 
saps and nuts — pure. 

Owing to their purity you can eat them freely 
and still be happy. They are safe for children. 

The dinner table is not complete without a dish 
of bonbons to decorate it, and to enjoy at dessert. 

LOWNEY'S BONBONS are uniform, delicious, pure 



II Ml IIIIMIIMIIMIIMIIII III! IIMII IIIMIIMIIIMIMIIIII III II 

3 9999 05987 726 4 






fHo'cOLATi 
Powder. 



^^ly 



Lowney's " Alwa-ys ReaLdy " Sweet ChocoloLte 
Powder has a rich chocolate flavor — espe- 
cially when boiled five minutes — for drink- 
ing, and besides makes the simplest and 
best icing for cake, by simply pouring hot 
water over it. It is delicious as flavoring 
for ice cream. 



IF YOUR DEALER DOES NOT KEEP IT, ASK 
HIM TO GET IT FOR YOU 



KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD 
Is the f oimdation of housekeeping 

Good food means health 

Variety In food Induces appetite and 
good digestion 

Pure food should be insisted on* It 
goes further^ nourishes morej. and saves 
doctors' bills 

You can eat freely of Lowney's Choco- 
late Bonbons, because they are pure 

Lowney^s Cocoa is d! cocoa 

I The Lowney Products are all wholesome 
as well as delicious 



t\i i» m mim»ma m yM>itMliitMMt limietttatmitUBUitmHm 



COOK BOOK 




MARIA WILLETT HOWARD 



PHICE$2.QO 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085803215 



> 

CO 

> 

CO 






O 

S 

U 

> 



o 

j3 



T3 



J3 



1^ 



cii 

u 






3 
a) 



O 

c 

"5- 
>^ 

v 

^ o 



o 



V n! 

(6 



^ = 



V ■ 



U 
O 



v 

a 

IS 



u 

c 

ba 

03 

a 

e 
u 

ni 
S 
> 



5? 



be 

u 



V 
V 3 

cn O) u 



rt 0) 



M 



u u S 






u 

N 

u 
a 
a 
< 



o 



t^ ^' •- 2 c ■" 

3 m - S R "» 

O -2 C O 01 nf 

CO Ci, M Oi O CU 



o 
en 

3 



V 
V 

<x 

a. 



a j3 



N M 

■> ^ 

bfl "3 
a 5 
•g M 

•*^ J3 

a; -M 

J3 3 

•w o 

U g 

>;> 

-4-1 



o 



a. 

0! 

U 



V 

e 

XI 



3 
O 
JS 
be 

3 

o 



M 
bo 






o 

C 



o 

x: 






o o 



J5 J3 
> -t-J 

3 fe 



o .2 

bfl O 
nl 



-5 r "1 



cs 3 

J3 O 

O en 



u rt c 4j 



o o _ 
IX, H CQ 



u 

a> ■ V 

u 3 ta 

.C b O 

O fe o 



2s 

•r e 

O X! 

"O C/3 

3 u 

O O 



3 oj 

if S 
^ o 



•- 






a 
2 
IS 


v 

a 


G 


c:) 


a 







T1 




>. 






X! 

a 


V 




M-i 


ya 


bil 




tfT 




•t-J 


tH 


3 




o 



m 



O 4J 
C/i 

>^ 

O 



a. >^ 



u 



Manning Solid 

' Ro>vman Copper 

DIRECTIONS-For Restoring Original Lustre 
First remove all lacquer by rubbing 
briskly with a damp cloth saturaterl 
with Alcohol. Then take No 00 
Powdered Pumice ( which can be on 
tained of your druggist), mix it with 
water to the consistency of a paste. 
dip a damp cloth into the mixture and 
rub the article until all slams are re- 
moved. This will give it a soft trench 
finish, but not a polished surface. An 
occasional use of the wet punnce wil 
keep your copper ware in excellent 
condition- 



Plantation 

Christmas 

Cakes 

Recipes by 
Riley M. Fletcher-Berry 



Fourteen of These Cakes 
Were Illustrated in 

The Ladies' Home Journal 

December, igi^ 

Copyright^ igiS 
The Curtis Publishing Company 



OOK 



OLORS 

JSEKEEPER, ES- 
[JLL RECORD OP 
ENT FOR ANY 
R ENOUGH FOR 
PLETE ENOUGH 

I^V %ff^ v^ tS^ V* 



(jccessful teachers op 
; latest eeuits of 
:edge of the AET 



BOWARD 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVER STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



A T CHRISTMASTIME on the old Southern 
Za plantation there was a general reunion of 
-L JL family and friends. Open house was kept, 
and it was not unusual for the mistress of a 
large estate to have as many as twenty cakes 
prepared and baked in her kitchen for holiday 
feasts and parties. These cakes were extremely 
varied, ranging from the most delicate to the 
richest and most ornate. The thirty-three cakes 
here given have been selected from the old family 
cookbooks of the Southland. 



Watermelon Cake {Alabama) 

- For the white part cream one cupful of butter 
with two cupfuls of sugar; add one cupful of 
milk, three cupfuls and a half of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
baking soda and the stiffly beaten whites of eight 
eggs. 

For the red part cream half a cupful of butter 
with one cupful of red sugar; add a third of a 
cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of baking soda, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one cupful of seeded, cut raisins and 
the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs. 

Drop the red part around the tube of a buttered 
pan and the white part around the edge. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 



Sally White Cake 
(Coconut Fruit Cake— Georgia) 

Cream one pound of butter with one pound and 
a half of sugar; add twelve eggs, one by one, four 
tablespoonf uls , of coconut milk, one pound of 
flour, two pounds of thin-sliced, candied citron 
peel, two pounds of blanched-and-shredded al- 
monds, two chopped coconuts, one nutmeg, grated, 
and one tablespoonful of mixed spices. Mix, and 
turn into a buttered and papered cake tin, and 
bake slowly until ready. 



OOK 



'OLORS 

aSEKEEPER, ES- 

ull record of 
;ent for any 
r enough for 
plete enough 

i^v i^w f^S i^w t^v 



tJCOESSFUL TEACHERS OF 
; LATEST FRUITS OF 
LEDGE OF THE ART 

HOWARD 



[3] 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEB STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



Cream Almond Cake 
{Mississippi) 

Cream three-quarters of a pound of butter with 
one pound of sugar; gradually add one pound of 
Bour (sifted five times) and the stiffly beaten whites 
of sixteen eggs. Flavor to taste with vanilla or 
almond extract. Bake in three layers. 

Beat up one pint of whipping cream. Blanch 
and shave fine one pound of sweet almonds; beat 
them into the cream; add half a cupful of sugar, 
and spread between the layers. This cake must 
not stand too long before serving and will not 
"keep over." 

Chocolate Layer Cake {Florida) 

Cream two cupfuls of butter with three cupfuls 
of sugar; add the stiffly beaten whites of eight 
eggs, two cupfuls of milk, five cupfuls of flour, 
four teaspoonfuls of baking powder and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Fill two pans with this bat- 
ter; then to the remaining batter add half a cake 
of grated bitter chocolate, and fill a third pan. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

For the filling bring to a boil two cupfuls 
of milk; then remove, and add the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs, one cupful and a half of sugar, half 
a cake of grated bitter chocolate mixed with one 
tablespoonful of cornstarch, and one teaspoonful 
of vanilla extract. Pour into a double boiler and 
cook to a custard. Cool and use. Cover the top 
layer with white frosting and decorate with halves 
of walnut meats. 



Black Fruit Cake 
{A General Recipe) 

Cream three-quarters of a pound of butter with 
one pound of sugar; add the beaten yolks of ten 
eggs, the stiffly beaten whites of eight eggs, one 
cupful of sour cream, one cupful of molasses, one 
teaspoonful each of baking soda, powdered cloves 



r4] 



and allspice, two teaspoonfuk of powdered cinna- 
mon, four tablespoon fuU of orange marmalade, 
half a pound of chopped figs, half a pound of 
chopped -almonds, half a pound of shredded, can- 
died citron peel, one pound of stoned, chopped 
raisins, one pound of cleaned currants and two 
pounds of sifted fiour. Mix, and bake very slowly 
in a pan lined with several thicknesses of paper. 

White and Yellow 

Delicate Layer Cake 

{Georgia) 

For two white layers cream half a cupful of 
butter with one cupful of sugar; add half a cupful 
of milk, two cupfuls of flour sifted with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract, and beat in the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs. 

For the yellow layer cream a quarter of a cup- 
ful of butter with half a cupful of sugar; add a 
quarter of a cupful of milk, one cupful of flour 
sifted with one teaspoonful of baking powder and 
half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs and half a teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

For the filling scald one cupful of milk, and let 
it partly cool; then add to it one cupful of sugar 
sifted with four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch and 
a saltspoonful of salt. Cook in a double boiler 
until thick. Then add to half of it three table- 
spoonfuls of melted chocolate, and to the other 
half a quarter of a cupful of chopped nut meats. 
Place the yellow layer between the two white 
layers with the filling. Cover the whole cake with 
boiled frosting colored pink and sprinkle coconut 
on the top. 

Pink and White Ribbon Cake 
(Kentucky) 

Use any preferred recipe for white cake; divide 
the batter into four portions, and color two of 
them pink, using a little red color. Bake in four- 



OOK 



COLORS 

USEKEEPER, ES- 
ULL RECORD OF 
[ENT FOR ANY 
R ENOUGH FOR 
PLETE ENOUGH 

1^ (^ 1^ O* 1^ 



UCOESSFUX TEACHERS OP 
3 LATEST FRUITS OF 
LEDGE OP THE ART 

HOWARD 



[5] 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEE STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



layer cake tins and turn out to cool. Spread the 
layers with white frosting; sprinkle on the icing 
some chopped nuts and raisins, then cover with 
more icing. Place the cake together in alternate 
pink and white layers. Cover the whole cake with 
white frosting, then decorate with daisies made 
with raisins for the centers and halved blanched 
almonds for petals, or vice versa. Cut out stems 
and leaves of candied citron peel. 



Kentucky Blue grass Cake 

Cream well two cupfuls of butter with three 
cupfuls of sugar; add one cupful of milk mixed 
smooth with two cupfuls of cornstarch. Sift one 
teaspoonful of baking soda and two teaspoonfula 
of cream of tartar with six cupfuls of Hour, and 
add alternately with the beaten whites of fourteen 
eggs. Turn into a buttered and papered oval cake 
tin and bake. When done cool thoroughly, then 
split through the middle with a sharp knife, and 
spread like layer cake with boiled icing between 
and on the top and on the sides. Decorate with 
raisins, figs and nuts. 



Solid Spice Cake 
{Tennessee) 

Cream one cupful of butter with two cupfuls 
of yellow sugar; add one cupful of molasses, 
seven ^%z yolks, one by one, a pinch of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of black, strong coffee, one tea- 
spoonful each of powdered cinnamon, ginger, 
mace, cloves and allspice, one nutmeg, grated, and 
a good pinch of black pepper. Beat for ten minutes; 
then add four cupfuls of flour lightly browned 
and sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Beat for five minutes more, then place in a 
greased and papered tin and bake for ten minutes 
very slowly, then briskly until done. Cool, and 
cover with caramel icing. 



[6] 



Lady Baltimore Cake 
{South Carolina) 

Cream half a cupful of butter with two cupfuls 
Df sugar; add gradually three-quarters of a cupful 
of milk, then mix in slowly two cupfuls and a 
half of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. When smooth fold carefully into 
the batter the stiffly beaten whites of eight eggs 
and half a teaspoonful of almond extract. Bake 
in three layers. 

For the filling boil one pint and a half of sugar 
with half a pint of water for ten minutes. Four 
this sirup upon the stiffly beaten whites of four 
eggs, beating until a stiff meringue is farmed. 
Add half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, two 
cupfuls of seeded raisins, torn or cut, two cup- 
fuls of chopped pecan meats and six figs cut into 
▼ery thin strips. Cover the tops and the sides of 
cake with white frosting. 

Pound Cake ( Virginia) 

Cream one pound of butter with one pound of 
powdered sugar. Have ready twelve eggs, the 
whites beaten separately to, a stiff froth, the yolks 
beaten alone until very thick. Add the yolks to 
the creamed sugar and butter, stirring well, then 
the whites, lightly at first, then beating them in 
thoroughly. Now add one pound of silted flour, 
a little at a time. As a rule no flavoring was 
used with this cake, though occasionally the grated 
rind and strained juice of one lemon were added. 
Bake with extreme care, and be sure the pan ie 
not shaken until the mixture is well set. 

Grand Duke Cake (Georgia) 

For the white part cream one cupful and a half 
of sugar with half a cupful of butter; add half 
a cupful of water and two cupfuls and a half of 
flour sifted with one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der; then fold in the beaten whites of six eggs. 

for the dark part cream two-thirds of a cupful 



OOK 



:OLORS 

USEKEEPER, ES- 
ULL RECORD OF 
[ENT FOR ANY 
R ENOUGH FOR 
PLETE ENOUGH 

l^V f^v fgm fgm f^v 



trCCESSFUL TEACHERS OF 
E LATEST PEUITS OP 
LEDGE OP THE AET 

HOWARD 



m 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVER STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



of butter with one cupful of, sugar; add the beaten 
yolks of six eggs, half a cupful of water, two cup- 
fuls and a^ half of flour sifted with one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, one cupful of seeded raisins, 
one teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and 
grated nutmeg and two teaspoonfuls of powdered 
cinnamon and allspice. Bake, and put together 
with boiled icing. 

Spice Marble Cake 

For the white part cream half a cupful of but- 
ter with one cupful of sugar; iadd half a cupful 
of milk, two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of baking soda 
and the beaten whites of three eggs. 

For the dark part cream a quarter of a cupful 
of butter with half a cupful of brown sugar; add 
a quarter of a cupful of milk, half a cupful of 
molasses, the beaten yolks of tnree eggs, two cup- 
fuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of baking soda, one teaspoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, one teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg and half a teaspoonful of powdered all- 
spice. Put the light and dark batters into a but- 
tered-and-floured cake pan in alternate spoonfuls. 

Sea Island Fig Cake 
(South Carolina) 

This is a gold and silver layer cake. For the 
silver cake cream two cupfuls of sugar with two- 
thirds of a cupful of butter; add two-thirds of a 
cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour sifted with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eight eggs. Bake in ' 
square layer-cake tins. 

For the gold part cream three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter with one cupful of sugar; add 
half a cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour sifted 
with one teaspoonful and a half of baking powder 
and the yolks of seven eggs and one whole egg 
beaten together. Flavor- with two teaspoonfuls of 
powdered cinnamon and one teaspoonful qf pow- 
dered allspice. 



[81 



Place half the gold batter in a pan the size of 
one of those used for the silver part, and spread 
over the top one pound of halved, preserved figs 
(drained well and dried in the oven, and flour 
sifted over them). Allow the figs barely to touch 
each other. Spread the rest of the gold batter 
over the top of the figs and bake. When turned 
out but still warm place the layers together, the 
gold in the middle, with boiled icing and ice the 
top, decorating the latter with nuts, figs and pre- 
served cherries. 



Chocolate Marble Cake 

Make as for Chocolate Layer Cake, dividing the 
batter into halves, leaving one-half white and to 
the second half adding half a cake of bitter 
chocolate (grated). Place in the prepared pan al- 
ternately with the white part. Bake in a moderate 



Black Chocolate Cake 

Into the beaten yolks of four eggs stir two cup- 
fuls of sugar, half a cupful of creamed butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of bitter chocolate dissolved 
in five tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract; beat for ten min- 
utes. Then add one cupful and two-thirds of 
flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der and half a teaspoonful of salt, and the stifRv 
beaten whites of the eggs. Turn mto a buttered- 
and-floured cake tin and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour. 



Fig Cake 



Cream a generous half pint of butter with two 
cupfuls and a half of sugar; add one cupful of 
sweet milk, then six cupfuls of flour sifted with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, the stiff- 
whipped whites of sixteen eg^s and a pound and 
a quarter of figs cut into stni>s and well floured 
(no flavoring). Bake carefully in a moderate oven. 



iOOK 



COLORS 

USEKEEPER, E&- 
ULL RECORD OF 
lENT FOR ANY 
R ENOUGH FOR 
PLETE ENOUGH 
\ jft ^ ^ Jt ^ 



UCCESSPUL TEACHEE8 OF 
E LATEST FEtriTS OF 
LEDGE OP THE AET 

HOWARD 



19] 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEE STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



White Loaf Cake 
{Kentucky) 

Cream together one pint of butter and one cup- 
ful of sifted flour. Beat stiff the whites of thir- 
teen eggs; then add three cupfuls and a third of 
granulated sugar. Add this to the creamed butter 
alternately with four additional cupfuls and a 
third of flour sifted with one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. When mixed add also half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little water, with a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. Line the sides and 
bottom of a pan with greased paper, and bake 
slowly for one hour; then let the heat increase 
until the cake is done. 

For the icing boil one pint of granulated sugar 
with just enough water to moisten until it "crack- 
les" against the side of a cup. Meantime beat 
stiff the whites of four eggs; pour into this the 
sirup, stirring slowly until well mixed; then beat 
fast until half cold, when add one teaspoonful 
each of cream of tartar and lemon or vanilla fla- 
voring. 



Favorite Jumbles 
( Virginia) 

Cream a pound of butter with one pound and a 
half of sugar; add one cupful of milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of fruit juice, a tablespoonful of cara- 
way seeds, three pounds of flour and a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Cut 
into rings, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Lady Washington Jumbles 
( Virginia) 

Cream one pound of butter with one pound of 
sugar; add three beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of rose water and a teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
then a pound of sifted flour. Roll out into thin 
sheets, cut into rings, dip in sugar, and bake. 

[10] 



Solid Coconut Cake 
(.Georgia) 

Grate one pound of fresh coconut, and dry well. 
Cream together a pound of butter and a pound of 
su^ar; add the beaten yolks of two eggs, then the 
whites (well whipped) alternately with a pound of 
sifted flour. Stir in the grated coconut last; beat 
until very light, and bake in a moderate oven for 
three hours. 

Coconut Layer Cake 
(.Georgia) 

Add a pint of powdered sugar to the beaten yolks 
of six eggs, creaming with these three-quarters of 
a cupful of butter; then add one cupful of sweet 
milk, three cupfuls and a half of flour, with a 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonf uls of cream of 
tartar and the stiff-whipped whites of four eggs. 
Bake in layers, and let cool. Then spread with 
icin^. 

Icing: Grate one coconut, then beat stiff the 
whites of two eggs, adding to them one cupful of 
powdered sugar. Mix with the coconut, and 
spread. 

Ice-Cream Cake 

Bake a sponge cake in layers; let it cool thor- 
oughly. Meantime whip stiff one pint of sweet 
cream; add a pinch of salt, and flavor with va- 
nilla; spread between the layers shortly before 
serving. 

Golden Cream Cake 

Cream a quarter of a cupful of butter with one 
cupful of sugar; add half a cupful of sweet milk, 
one cupful and a half of flour, the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, half a teaspoonful of baking 
soda and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Bake in three layer tins. 



;ooK 



ZOLORS 

USEKEEPEK, ES- 
'ULL RECORD OF 
lENT FOR ANY 

lR enough for 
plete enough 

) 1^ (^ Jfi td* V* 



lUCCESSFtTL TEACHERS OP 
E LATEST FEUITS OF 
LEDGE OF THE AKT 



HOWARD 



[11] 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEE STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



For the filling beat the yolks of two eggs; add 
one tablespoonful and a half of cornstarch, three- 
quarters of a cupful of milk and a tablespoonful 
of butter. Sweeten and flavor to taste. Cook in 
a double boiler until thick; let cool, and spread 
between the layers of cake. 



Kelly Island Cake 
(South Carolina) 

Cream one cupful of butter with two cupfuls of 
sugar; add four well-beaten eggs, half a cupful of 
milk and three cupfuls of flour sifted with three 
teaspoorifuls of baking powder. Bake in layers. 

For the filling stir together the grated rind of 
a lemon, one grated, tart apple, one egg and a 
cupful of sugar. Boil for four minutes; cool, and 
spread. 

Caramel Layer Cake 
( Virginia) 

For a four-layer cake cream two cupfuls and a 
half of sugar with one cupful of butter; add al- 
ternately a cupful of milk and three cupfuls of 
flour sifted with three-quarters of a cupful of 
cornstarch. Flavor as preferred, and add the 
stiffly beaten whites of eight eggs. 

For the filling cook together for twenty minutes 
three cupfuls of brown sugar, butter the size of 
an egg, and a cupful of sweet cream. Flavor just 
before removing from the stove; then cool, and 
spread. 

Rice Cake No, I 
{Carolina) 

Take the yolks of six eggs, the whites of three 
eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, one cupful of 
flour, half a pound finely ground rice and half a 
pound of powdered sugar. Beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. Add the grated rind 
of lemon with a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt 



[12] 



to the yolks of eggs. Beat again, and add the 
whites. Mix well. Mix the flour, rice and sugar 
together. Add the eggs gradually, beating con- 
stantly for thirty minutes. Bake, in a tin lined 
with greased paper, in a slow oven for fifty min- 
utes. 



Rice Cake No. 
( Virginia) 



Half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of 
flour, half a pound of sugar, nine eggs, the 
grated rind of a lemon and half a cupful of but- 
ter. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 
eggs; beat them well, and add to the yolks the 
butter beaten to a cream with the sugar. Stir in 
the flour, rice and lemon rind, and beat the mix- 
ture for five minutes; then add the whites of 
eggs; heat the cake again for ten minutes; then 
divide the mixture into two buttered-and-fioured 
cake tins, and bake in a moderate oven for 
forty-five minutes. 



Croton Sponge 
(Georgia) 



Cream half a pound of butter with a pound of 
sugar; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, then a 

Eoimd of flour (in which one teaspoonful of 
aking powder is. sifted) alternately with a cup- 
ful of milk; lastly add the stiiBy beaten whites 
of the eggs. Mix carefully, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour. 



Hayes Cake 
{Small Georgia Plain Cake) 

This has the grain and flavor of pound cake. 
Cream two-thirds of a cupful of butter with a 
cupful of sugar; add three well-beaten eggs, three 
tablespoonfuls of milk and (alternating with the 
milk) a cupful of flour. Bake in a moderate oven 
for thirty-five minutes. 



f5 

lOOK 

:OLORS 

USEKEEPER, ES- 
ULL RECORD OF 
[ENT FOR ANT 
R ENOUGH FOR 
PLETE ENOUGH 

i^v f^v ^S^ v^ vd^ 



aOCESSPUL TEACHERS OF 
! LATEST FRUITS OF 
LEDGE OF THE ART 



HOWARD 



[13] 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVER STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



Small Pound Cake 
{North Carolina) 

Beat one cupful of butter; then add gradually 
one cupful and two-thirds of sugar, and beat until 
creamy and frothy. Add half a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace> and then, one at a time, five un- 
beaten eggs, beating each one in well before ad<> 
ing the next. Then add a pint of flour sifted 
several times. Mix and beat until smooth, and 
then turn into a well greased-and-floured cake 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. 



Yellow Fruit Cake 
( Virginia) 

Clean a pound of currants, stone and chop a 
pound of raisins and shred fine half a pound of 
citron. Mix and sprinkle over the fruit the juice 
of one lemon, the grated yellow rind of two 
lemons, a good pinch of pulverized mace and a 
grated nutmeg, then cover and set aside until the 
batter is made. 

For the batter cream half a pound of butter 
with a pound and a half of sugar, gradually add- 
ing the beaten yolks of six eggs. Then alternately 
beat in one pound and three-quarters of flour and 
a pint of sour cream in which a level teaspoonful 
of soda has been dissolved. When beaten smooth 
add the stiff-whipped whites of the eggs and then 
the prepared fruit. Bake in a paper-lined pan for 
two hours and a half, keeping the top covered 
with buttered paper while baking. 



Black Fruit Cake 
(Tennessee) 

* Clean and dry a pound of currants; wash and 
seed a pound of raisins; shred fine half a pound 
of citron and a quarter of a pound each of can- 
died orange peel or lemon peel and candied gin- 
ger; chop fine half a pint of any preferred firm 



[14] 



(strained) preserve^ and cut up half a pint of nut 
meats. At night pour upon the mixture half a 
pint each of sweet grape juice and preserve juice, 
the strained juice of three lemons, three oranges 
and the grated rind of the fruit, and let stand 
until morning. Then cream well two level pints 
of sugar and a pound of butter, and beat in, one 
at a time, ten eggs. Gradually add two rounding 
pints of heated sifted flour. When well mixed 
add the juice drained from the fruit mixture, and 
a tablespoonful each of rose water and lemon ex- 
tract. If the batter is too stiff add sufHcient fruit 
juice to thin it properly. 

Have the cake pans lined with, first, several 
Sicknesses of heavy brown paper, then one of 
heavy buttered white paper, and over the top 
place a double layer of buttered paper. Set in a 
sloV oven for half an hour, then bake faster (yet 
slowly withal) for five hours if the cakes are in 
large pans. Smaller cakes will require from four 
hours upward. When done place on a sieve to let 
the air circulate under the pans; cover with heavy 
cloth and let cool, and then turn out. Ice the 
next day. 



White Fruit Cake, Sometimes 

Called ''Imperial Cake " 

(Georgia) 

Cream one pound each of sugar and butter; 
add twelve eggs one by one. four tablespoonfuls 
of fruit juice, the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon,^ one pound each of flour, cleaned currants, 
cut raisins and blanched almonds, three-quarters 
of a pound of shredded citron, and one teaspoon- 
ful of soda and cream of tartar mixed. Bake in 
a moderate oven until thoroughly done, covering 
with paper on all sides. 



Copyright, igis, by The Curtis Publishing Company 



JOOK 

COLORS 

)USEKEEPEK, ES- 
?ULL RECORD OF 
:!IENT FOR ANY 
\B. ENOUGH FOR 
IPLETE ENOUGH 
S Jt Jt J» Ji Jf 



successrul teachee8 of 
:e latest fruits op 
tledge of the art 

HOWARD 



[15] 



PUBLISHEB BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEE STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



COOK BOOK 

ILLUSTRATED IN COLORS 

A NEW GUIDE FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER, ES- 
PECIALLY INTENDED AS A FULL RECORD OF 
DELICIOUS DISHES SUFFICIENT FOR ANY 
WELL-TO-DO FAMILY, CLEAR ENOUGH FOR 
THE BEGINNER, AND COMPLETE ENOUGH 
FOR AMBITIOUS PROVIDERS jt ^ ^ ^ jt 

PREPARED BY 

03<rE OF THE MOST EXPEEIENCED AND SUOCESSEUL TEACHEE8 OP 

COOKING IN THE COUNTRY, A8 THE LATEST PEUITS OP 

PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIPIO KNOWLEDGE OF THE AET 

MAEIA WILLETT HOWARD 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

486 HANOVEE STREET, BOSTON 
1907 



Copyright, 1907, 

By the WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 

BOSTON. 



Notfnoolr ^zat 

J. 8. Onshing & Co. — Berwick & Smith Co. 

Norwood, Mass,, U.S.A. 



INTRODUCTION 

"We present this cook book with confidence that it 
brings up to date the modern possibilities of the table. 
It is prepared by a woman who has devoted her life to 
scientific and artistic cooking, and who has recently been 
honored by appointment to full charge of the culinary 
department of one of the most advanced colleges for self- 
supporting women in the country. She speaks with 
knowledge and authority. 

We hope the book will contribute something to the 
fine art of living in many homes, making those homes 
the happier and more attractive for the husband and 
children, and solving many a problem for brides and 
beginners. 

Thousands of our most valued customers cannot afford 
to prepare many of these dishes very often for their 
tables. But there are special occasions when we all feel 
that we can have the best for ourselves and our guests. 
This book will stand the strain of such occasions. 

There are hundreds of simple dishes here for all tastes, 
suitable for all pocket-books. With this book as a guide, 
it will be possible for any woman to live within her means 
and still have that infinite variety on the table which 
means so much for appetite and health, which we all wish 
for and which we wish for you all. 

THE WALTER M. LOWNEY CO. 
Boston. 



CONTENTS 

PART I 

Value of Food to the Body 3 

Methods of Cooking 5 

Just How 8 

Carving 12 

Marketing 16 

Dinners and Luncheons 21 

Butler's Duties. Garnishings 27 

Weights and Measures 28 

PART II. RECIPES 

OHAPTEB 

I. First Course Dishes 33 

II. Soups 37 

in. Fish 64 

IV. Meats 76 

V.» Vegetables 97 

VI. Cereals 109 

VII. Eggs 112 

VIII. Sauces for Meat and Vegetables .... 118 

IX. Entrees 128 

X. Bread 156 

XL Salads 172 

XII. Sandwiches 187 

XIII. Desserts 101 

V 



VI CONTENTS 

CHAPTEE PAGE 

XIV. Cake and Cookies; Frostings and Fillings . 246 

XV. Frozen Dishes 280 

XVI. Beverages 293 

XVII. Fruits and Nuts and Candy 299 

XVIIT. Preserving 304 

XIX. Chafing Dish Delicacies 323 

XX. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent . . 332 

Bibliography 343 

Glossary 345 

Index 347 



PART I 



VALUE OF FOOD TO THE 

BODY. 
METHODS OF COOKING. 
JUST HOW. 
CARVING. 



MARKETING. 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 

BUTLER'S DUTIES. 

GARNISHING. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



PART I 



VALUE OF FOOD TO THE BODY 

" Food is that which when taken into the body tends 
either to build tissue or to yield energy." 

The chief offices of food are to build the material of the 
body, to repair the waste which is continually going on 
and to yield heat to keep the body warm. 

Foods may be divided into tissue-buUding foods and 
fuel foods. 

The tissue-building foods are such foods as milk, eggs, 
cheese, wheat, meat and the legumes. The fuel foods 
are sugars and starches and fats and oils. 

In order to keep the body in a good condition a 
combination of the tissue-building foods and the fuel 
foods is necessary, with a supply of water to dissolve 
them. About 125 grams of tissue-building foods and 550 
grams of the fuel foods is the amount required daily. 
A mixed diet, therefore, is the ideal diet for the healthy 
adult. 

The changing of the tissues and the assimilation of 
food are very rapid in childhood and youth, so that the 
system demands at that time an abundant supply of such 
foods as meat, milk and eggs. When middle age is 
reached, the amount of such food should be decreased. 
Otherwise the tax on the organs which take care of the 
wastes will be so great that disease will follow. 

Thus it is clear that people of different ages require 
different combinations and amounts of food. The kinds 
of food required to nourish the healthy body vary also 

3 



4 LOWNSr'S COOK BOOK 

with the sex, occupation and climate, as well as with the 
age and peculiarities of the individual. In order to judge 
of the relative value of food to the body it is necessary 
to find out what percentage of each nutritive constituent 
the food contains, how much energy it is capable of yield- 
ing, how much of the food eaten is digested, how much 
is absorbed, and whether the nutritive constituents are 
obtained at a reasonable cost. 

Farmers' Bulletin number twenty-three, published by 
the United States Department of Agriculture, will be 
found interesting to those caring to study foods from the 
above standpoints. 

The following menus for one day will supply food in 
the proper proportion, and the body will be well nour- 
ished : — 

Breakfast Dinner Supper 

Meat Hash Beefsteak Omelet 

Cornbread and Butter Creamed Cauliflower Baking Powder Biscuit 
Cocoa Riced Potatoes Pear Sauce 

Tapioca Pudding 

The nutritive value of food depends to a very large 
extent upon the cooking. Many raw foods are indigestible, 
but these same foods cooked are nutritious. The importance 
of proper cooking cannot be overestimated. 

Cooking changes the food so that the digestive juices 
can take care of it ; cooking improves the flavor and the 
appearance, thus making the food more appetizing; and 
cooking kills disease germs, parasites and other danger- 
ous organisms. 

Dainty serving makes even cheap dishes more palatable. 
This stimulates the digestive juices ; hence food should be 
made appetizing in order to obtain the greatest value 
from it. • 



METHODS OF COOKING 5 

METHODS OF COOKING 
Boiling 

Boiling point is the temperature at which a fluid is 
converted into vapor, with the phenomenon of ebullition. 
The boiling point of water is 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 
In cooking, the term boiling means the cooking of food 
in a boiling liquid, and water is the liquid generally used. 
Rapidly boiling water is no hotter than when the agita- 
tion is less, but in some cases, as in the boiling of rice, 
violently boiling water is recommended for the purpose 
of keeping the grains of rice separated. The boiling 
point of water once reached can be held with a moderate 
amount of heat. 

Food is generally boiled by putting immediately into 
boiling water. This sears the surface, and keeps in the 
juices ; but if the water is to be used for soups, gravies, 
and so forth, the food is put into cold water and brought 
slowly to the boiling point. Salt is added to the boiling 
water ordinarily when cooking food, as it tends to keep 
the flavor in the food. 

Roasting 

Roasting, truly speaking, is cooking food before an 
open fire, so that roasting is seldom accomplished in 
modern kitchens. 

Baking 

Baking is cooking food by dry heat in an inclosed oven. 
The oven should be very hot when the food is first put in, 
then the heat reduced. 

In baking meats, basting frequently with hot fat will 
drive the heat to the center and make the meat juicy. 



6 LOWNEY'a COOK BOOK 

Stewing 

Stewing is cooking food in water kept below the boiling 
point, and is smilar to simmering. 

Fricasseeing 

Fricasseeing is a combination of sauteing and simmering. 
The food is first sauted and then simmered until tender. 

Steaming 

Moist steaming is accomplished by placing the food in 
a perforated dish over a kettle of boiling water and cook- 
ing until tender. 

Dry steaming is accomplished by placing the food in 
the top of a double boiler and keeping the water boiling 
in the lower part until the food is cooked. 

Simmering 

Simmering is cooking in water at 185 degrees Fahren- 
heit or 27 degrees below the point of boiling. This 
method of cooking is employed where long, slow cooking 
is desired, as in making stews, soups and so forth ; also 
for cooking tough cuts of meats. 

As a rule, in both boiling and simmering, the kettle 
should be tightly covered. 

Braising 

Braising is a form of cooking generally adopted for 
cooking tough meats. The food to be braised is placed 
in a kettle with a few slices of salt pork, some vegetables, 
seasonings and a small amount of liquid, either water or 
stock. The kettle is then covered closely, and the food 
cooked until tender. Braising is a long, slow process. 



METHODS OF COOKING 7 

Frying 

Frying is cooking food in hot fat, deep enough to cover 
the food. Lard, olive oil, cottolene or drippings may be 
used. The fat should be heated hot enough to brown a 
piece of bread a golden brown in forty seconds for cooked 
food, and in sixty seconds for uncooked food. There are 
various theories about the digestibility of fried food. The 
latest seems to be that food properly fried and drained may 
not be very indigestible. To prepare fat for frying, fill 
frying kettle one half full, and heat gradually. Avoid fry- 
ing too much at a time, as the temperature^ill be reduced 
and the food much more liable to absorb fat. Reheat fat 
after each frying. Drain the food on brown paper. 

Sauteing 

Sauteing is cooking food in a frying pan in a small 
amount of fat. Food is less digestible cooked in this 
way than fried food. 

Broiling 

Broiling is cooking the food on a greased broiler before 
hot coals or the gas flame. The broiler should be held 
very near the flame at first to sear the surface of the food, 
and should be turned every ten seconds for the first 
minute of cooking, and afterwards occasionally. 

Pan Broiling 

Pan broiling is cooking the food in a hissing-hot frying 
pan without fat. It is employed where it is impossible to 
broil, and may be better accomplished where two frying 
pans are used, and the food turned from one to the other 
every ten seconds for the first minute and afterwards 
occasionally, as in broiling. 



8 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

JUST HOW 

How to Crumb ; Egg and Crumb 

For crumbing, dried bread crumbs wliich have been 
pounded or rolled until fine and then sifted are best. 
The bread may be broken in pieces and dried in the oven 
or merely allowed to stand in the open air until dried. 

To prepare the egg, break into soup plate, beat until 
yolk and white are well blended, season with salt and 
pepper, dilute with two tablespoons cold water and use 
for dipping. 

Food to be fried should be dried as much as possible, 
then dipped in crumbs, then placed in the egg, and 
thoroughly covered with the &gg, then drained and dipped 
again in crumbs. 

It is an economy of time to crumb all of the pieces to 
be fried, then egg all, and when drained, to crumb all. 
This may be done in the morning and the food fried-when 
\<ranted. In this case, allow the prepared food to stand in 
kitchen fifteen or twenty minutes before frying. When 
fried always drain on brown paper. 

How to bone Meat, Fish, Birds 

Legs and loins of lamb and mutton are the meats ordi- 
narily boned. The butcher will do it ; but if it must be 
done at home, wipe the meat, and with a sharp knife scrape 
the meat from the bone, being careful not to cut through 
the skin. Fish to be boned generally have the heads cut 
off ; then remove the flesh from one side of the backbone, 
and then from the other. 

To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, select undrawn 
birds, with head and feet left on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from legs by making an incis- 



JUST HOW 9 

ion just below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer 
draw the tendons out one at a time. Loosen the skin 
neajr the feet and cut off feet. Make an incision through 
the skin from the neck to tlie tail, the entire length of the 
backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until the 
shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around 
the wing joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, 
then around the second joint and leg, cutting tendinous 
portion when necessary. When one side of backbone is 
boned, bone the other, then remove flesh from breastbone, 
on either side of bird. When flesh is all separated from 
bone, discard carcass; wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in 
original shape. The birds may be seasoned and broiled ; 
or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. Smalls are gen- 
erally prepared the former way, and large birds the latter 
way. 

How to clarify Fat 

When through frying, add a pared potato, cut in slices, 
to the fat, and let stand on back of range until potato has 
browned. Remove potato and strain fat through a cheese 
cloth. Fat clarified in this way may be used indefinitely. 

How to clarify Melted Butter 

Let melted butter stand in a dish on back of the range 
until the salt has settled, then pour off butter, leaving 
sediment in the bottom of the dish. 

How to avoid the Burning of Fat 

, When fat is put on the range to heat for frying, put in 
a cube of bread. If the fat is forgotten, the bread will burn 
first, and the odor of the burned crumb will attract the 
attention. The burned flavor cannot be removed from 
burned fat. 



10 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

How to try out Suet 

Cut the suet in small pieces, place in top of double 
boiler, cover, and cook over hot water until all the fat is 
tried out ; strain through a cheese cloth. This can be 
done in the oven if the top of the range is crowded. 

How to Lard 

Larding is accomplished by cutting strips of salt pork 
lengthwise with the rind two inches long and one quarter 
inch wide, and with aid of the larding needle drawing 
these pieces through the surface of the meat, taking a 
stitch an inch long and a quarter inch deep. 

How to test Fat for Frying 

Heat the fat. When a blue smoke begins to appear, drop 
in a cube of bread ; if the bread browns a golden brown in 
forty seconds, the fat is hot enough for any food which 
has previously been cooked. Uncooked food requires a 
longer time to fry; the cube of bread should brown in 
sixty seconds for such food. 

Food cooked in fat tested in this way should never 
soak fat if one is careful to put a small enough quantity 
of food in at a time — not enough to cool the fat. 

How to make Croquettes 

For meat croquettes, cold cooked meat should be freed 
from skin and gristle, and cut quite fine, then mixed with 
a thick sauce to as soft a consistency as it is possible to 
handle. Chill before shaping. For vegetable croquettes 
the vegetables should be boiled, then washed and seasoned. 
Chill before shaping. 

To Shape. — Allow one rounding tablespoon of croquette 
mixture for each croquette, roll into a round ball, roll 



JtrST HOW 11 

ball in crumbs, then shape either like a cylinder or 
pyramid ; when all are perfect and uniform, dip in egg, 
then in crumbs. 



How to prepare Sweetbreads 

Soak in cold water from the time they come from the 
market until used. Drain, cover with two cups cold 
water, add four cloves, one and a half teaspoons salt, two 
tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice, and a slice of onion ; 
simmer for one half hour, drain, cover with cold water, 
remove tubes and membranes. Broil whole; or if -for 
larding, dip in egg, wrap in cheese cloth, and press under 
weight over night. 

How to care for the Refrigerator 

Select a large refrigerator, of simple construction and 
of hardwood, — the lining of zinc or marble and the shelves 
of slate or hardwood. 

To keep the refrigerator clean, remove instantly any 
food spilled in any of the compartments. Wash the ice 
compartment and food chambers at least once a week with 
hot soapsuds, and for economy's sake do this when the 
ice is low. Pour boiling water down the waste pipe. Sal 
soda dissolved In the water tends to keep every part sweet 
and clean. 

Shelves and all portable parts, when washed and 
scalded, should be placed in the sun to dry ; if this is im- 
possible, dry before a fire. 

Keep a good supply of ice, in the ice chamber ; it is 
cheaper in the end. 

Never keep the doors or covers of the refrigerator open 
unnecessarily long ; it wastes the ice. 



12 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

A good refrigerator properly cared for should last at 
least twenty-five years. 

How to Caramelize 
Place sugar in clean agate-ware frying pan, and stir con- 
tinually until the sugar becomes a golden brown sirup. 

How to Poach 

Place food to be poached in frying pan half filled with 
boiling salted water. Cook below the boiling point from 
three to eight minutes. 

How to cream Butter 

Place butter in bowl, and mash against the sides of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until of a creamy consistency. 

How to cut and Fold 

Pour mixture into bowl, and cut through and through 
mixture with a spoon, then take up some of mixture in 
spoon, and turn spoon completely over, and fold under 
mixture. Continue this process until mixture is blended. 

How to crease Frosting 

When frosting is nearly cold, cut with a silver knife, 
wiping knife after making each crease. 

CARVING 

To master the art of carving one must understand the 
anatomy of the meat to be carved. 

The carver should insist upon having a sharp knife, a 
large platter, and sufficient space to move his arms. 



CARVINa 13 

Whole Fish 

The carving of fish is extremely simple. Run the 
knife the whole length of the back fin, then cut from the 
back fin to the middle of the fish ; the fiesh may then be 
separated from the bone. When one side is served, turn 
the fish over and carve the other side in the same way. 

The center of the fish is considered the best, as it is the 
fattest portion. The meat around the head and neck is 
decidedly gelatinous. 

Medium-sized fish, like mackerel, salmon, trout, and so 
forth, are cut through the bone, thus giving a piece of 
fish on either side of the backbone for each serving. 

Small fish are generally served so as to make four 
fillets, — two fillets on either side of the backbone. 

Beef 

For carving roast beef, a long, broad-bladed knife is re- 
quired. Always cut across the grain of the meat ; never 
with the grain. 

The joint of beef known as the Porterhouse roast or 
sirloin roast consists of the sirloin, the tenderloin, and the 
flank. The flank is tough, and if roasted, with the meat, 
is generally used for some made dish, such as croquettes, or 
hashed meat on toast ; it is seldom carved at the table. 

The tenderloin and sirloin must be carved against tlie 
grain. Cut thin slices parallel with the vertebr<s, then 
cut close to the backbone, thus separating the slices. Rib 
roasts are carved in the same way as the sirloin. 

Rolled ribs and round of beef are carved in round 
slices as thin as possible, each slice having considerable 
fat mixed with the lean. 

Beef steaks are carved across the grain. 

Sirloin Steak. — Cut slices at right angles to the ver- 
tebrae in both the sirloin and the tenderloin, then separate. 



14 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Lamb and Mutton 

A leg of mutton is considered by many the most diffi- 
cult piece of meat to carve. If the hip bone is removed, 
the carving of this joint is simple, but it is usually left in. 
Place the leg on the platter, with the skin side next the 
platter. Carve from the hip bone across the leg; these 
will be the largest slices, as they come from the part of the 
joint which has the most meat. The portions near the 
knuckle are to be carved in the same way ; they will not 
be so rare as the thicker slices. Chops may be cut from 
the upper part of the leg. 

Fore Quarter of Mutton or Lamb. — Remove the fore leg 
and the shoulder, then separate the rib chops. Every 
part of the fore quarter of lamb is sweet and tender, but 
the neck in the fore quarter of mutton should be used only 
for stewing. In carving the shoulder of either lamb or 
mutton, one must study the meat before cooking. 

The Saddle of Mutton. — There are several ways of carv- 
ing this joint. The fat, tenderloin, and kidney should all 
be removed in one piece. 

The most popular way is to cut long slices parallel with 
the backbone, on the portion nearest the tail, and slices 
diagonally on the portion nearest the neck. 

The Loin of Mutton. — Generally this joint is carved by 
merely separating the chops, but it may be carved in the 
same manner as the saddle of mutton. 



Veal 

Mllet of Veal. — This cut is carved like the round of beef. 

Shoulder of Veal. — The shoulder is often boned and 
stuffed. In that case, cut through the meat from side to 
side. If the bone is left in, carve in the same manner as 
the shoulder of mutton. 



CABVING 15 

Loin of Veal. — This cut is often stuffed, and the kidney 
is always cooked with the meat. Carve the same as the 
sirloin of beef, in large, thin slices. 

Pork 

Pork Spare Ribs. — Serve one rib to each perso'i. 

Loin of Pork. — Chops may be carved and served, or the 
roast may be carved exactly like the sirloin of beef. 

Roast Ham. — Cut through the meat to the bone, using 
the portion nearest the knuckle first. Ham should be cut 
in very thin slices. 

Tongue. — The small end of the tongue is inferior to the 
thicker portion. Cut slices crosswise of the tongue and 
serve a slice from both portions to each person. 

Roast Pig. — Place the head of the pig at the right hand 
of the carver. Cut off the ears, then the head ; cut the 
head in halves. Cut the whole length of the backbone, 
dividing the creature in two pieces. 

Cut off the leg of one half, then separate the shoulder 
from the body. Carve the ribs and loin at right angles 
with the backbone. Cut the other half in the same way. 
Young pig meat is very tender and the bones are soft, so 
that carving is an easy matter. 

Poultry and Game 

To carve Poultry. — Place the bird on the platter, with 
the head to the left and the side toward the carver. In- 
sert the fork across the center of the breastbone. Remove 
the wing, then the leg, then the side bone between leg and 
body. Cut slices from the breast, running from breast- 
bone to place from which wing was removed. Remove 
wishbone by cutting from end of breast to the left of the 



16 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

wing joint. Make an incision to the right of breastbone 
for removing stuffing. 

Remove fork from breastbone and cut the leg in small 
portions. Serve a slice of light and a slice of dark meat 
to each person. 

Serve one side of bird before carving the other side. 

Broiled Chicken. — Cut through the breast and cut in 
halves at right angles with the top of leg. But if . birds 
are small, serve one to each person. 

To carve a Bueh. — Cut off the wing and the leg the 
same as for poultry. Cut the breast meat parallel with 
the breastbone, beginning at the side between the wing 
joint and the thigh. 

To carve a Goose. — Carve in the same manner as a roast 
duck, but cut the leg into several portions. 

Grouse and Partridge. — These birds are carved like 
goose, although sometimes the breast is separated from the 
bone and one half breast is served to each person. 

Pigeons, quails, and small birds are served whole and 
generally on toast. 

MARKETING 

The term marketing means to the ordinary housekeeper 
the buying of meats and vegetables only, but the buying 
of all articles necessary for housekeeping should be in- 
cluded under this head. 

In order to market well the housekeeper must know 
what articles to buy in quantity and when to buy to the 
best advantage. 

It is much more economical proportionately to buy for 
a large family than for a small one. 

Staple articles such as bread flour, rice, spices, and so 
forth, should be bought in large quantities. Vegetables 



MARKETING 17 

which keep well, such as potatoes, squashes, turnips, and 
so forth, should be bought in the early fall to last until 
spring, provided there is a cool, dark place in which to 
keep them. Meats must necessarily be purchased as 
needed, uQless one has a large refrigerator in which to 
hang them. 

Fish, with the exception of salt or smoked kinds, should 
be bought only when absolutely fresh. Fruits such as 
apples and pears may be bought in large quantities, but 
perishable fruits in small amounts only. 



Beef 

The beef creature is first divided into halves the length 
of the backbone, then each half is separated into the fore 
quarter and the hind quarter. 

In the fore quarter we have in Boston markets — 

Parts How Cooked 

Brains Stewed or Scalloped 

Tongue Boiled, Fresh or Corned 

Neck Stewed 

Sticking Piece Stewed or Baked 

Five Chuck Ribs Roasted or Broiled 

Five Prime Ribs Roasted 

Fore Shin Stewed 

Rattle Rand > „ ■, t> -i j 

„ . , , }■ Corned Boiled 

Brisket > 

In the hind quarter we have in Boston markets — 

Parts How Cooked 

Sirloin Roasted or Broiled 

Rump Roasted or Broiled 

Round Roasted or Broiled 

Hind Shin Stewed 

Flank Braised or Boiled 

Tail Stewed for Soups 



18 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Other parts of the beef creature used as food are — 

Parts How Cooked 

Heart Braised 

Liver Braised, Fried, Sauted 

Kidneys Sauted, Braised, Stewed 

Tripe Stewed, Broiled, Fried 

Suet Sauted and used for Frying 

A side of beef weighs on the average about 450 pounds. 

Beef when first cut is dark purple, but turns red on ex- 
posure to the air. Good beef has a heavy layer of fat on the 
outside, which is yellowish white and crumbly ; the inside 
fat is white. Best quality beef has a large percentage of 
fat and a small proportion of water. 

Lamb and Mutton 

Lamb and mutton are divided into halves, or " sides," by 
cutting the entire length of the backbone the same as beef. 
The fore quarter is divided into the — 

Parts How Cooked 

Shoulder Boiled, Steamed, Eoasted 

Neck Stewed, Braised 

The hind quarter is divided into the — 

Parts How Cooked 

Leg Roasted, Braised, Boiled 

Loin Roasted, Broiled 

Saddle Roasted 

The best lamb is from a creature eight to twelve weeks 
old. Lamb may always be distinguished from mutton by 
thes inner redness of the bone. Mutton should have a 
large amount of white hard fat, and the flesh should be 
fine-grained and pink to red in color. 

The strong mutton flavor may be lessened by removing 
the pink outer skin, and also by taking off the caul before 
cooking the leg. 



MABKETING 19 

Veal 

Veal is cut similar to lamb. 

The fore quarter is divided into — 

Parts How Cooked 

Head Boiled 

Breast Stewed 

Shoulder Stewed or Roasted 

Ribs Stewed or Roasted 

Neck Stewed 

The hind quarter is divided into — 

Parts How Cooked 

Loin Stewed, Sauted, Roasted, Broiled 

Leg Stewed, Sauted, Roasted 

Other parts of the veal creature used as food — 

Parts How Cooked 

Tongue Boiled, Braised 

Brains Stewed, Scalloped \ 

Heart Baked, Braised 

Liver Broiled, Sautdd 

Kidneys I^oiled, Stewed 

Sweetbreads Stewed, Sauted, Fried 

The best veal is from a calf six to twelve weeks old. 
The meat should be pinkish white, fine-grained, and ten- 
der, and there should be a large amount of fine white fat 
on the legs and around the kidneys. 

Pork 

Fresh pork is not so popular a meat as corned or salted, 
although fresh pork from a pig which has been carefully 
fed before killing is a delicate meat. 

The upper part of the fore legs, or the shoulders, and the 



20 LOWNEY^S COOK BOOK 

upper parts of the hind legs, or the hams, are salted and 
smoked. The sides of the pork creature are salted and 
smoked for bacon. 

The fat is removed from the loin and ribs, and these are 
sold for roasts or chops; the fat is pickled and used for 
salt pork. 

The head is used for making souse and cheese. 

The feet are sold fresh or pickled. 

The brains, livers, and kidneys are also used the same as 
those of beef. 

Poultry and Game 

Poultry includes all domestic birds. 

In buying poultry, select birds which have been freshly 
killed and hand-picked. 

Pin feathers are found on young birds, and hairs on 
older birds. The birds should be short and plump, 
with considerable meat on the breast. Fat, but not too 
fat. 

Young birds have the cartilage at the end of the breast- 
bone soft and pliable. 

For roasting, buy poultry from three months to a year 
old. For braising, stewing, and slower methods of cook- 
ing, buy older birds, as they contain a larger proportion 
of meat than the younger birds. 

Game includes animals that are hunted in field or forest. 

Venison is cut like mutton. The meat is much darker 
than beef meat, and the fat is whiter; it is cooked in the 
same ways as mutton. 

Birds are sold with the feathers on, but have the mar- 
ket man remove them. All game is expensive, and so is a 
delicacy. In buying game, that which has hung three 
weeks or more is considered best. 



■ DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 21 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 
The Formal Dinner 

A formal dinner generally consists of ten courses, but 
may be eight or twelve. In order to have one harmonious 
whole, the different courses must blend well with each 
other. Avoid repetition; if oysters appear in the first 
course, they must not appear again. Observe these two 
points particularly in arranging the table: first, have the 
table linen immaculate and without folds; and second, 
arrange the covers with mathematical exactness. 

The table may be square, oblong, or round ; it must be 
covered with a soft pad, and then with the tablecloth, 
which should hang over the sides of the table at least one 
quarter of a yard on every side. 

The selection of guests for a formal dinner is extremely 
important, and the seating at the table so that all are con- 
genial takes some time to plan. Name cards should be 
placed at each cover. Each gentleman should be given a 
card, on entering the dressing room, with the name of the 
lady whom he is to escort to the dining room, and the 
letters R or L, also on the card, indicating to the right 
or left of the hostess. 

When dinner is announced, the host with the guest 
of honor leads the way to the dining room, followed 
by the other men with their ladies, and the hostess with 
the gentleman of honor brings up the rear. The guests 
all stand behind their chairs until the hostess makes a 
move to be seated; then the men push up the chairs for 
the ladies, each lady seating herself from the left of her 
chair. 

The decoration of the table should be simple and low in 
design and in the center of the table. A small flower 
may also be placed at the right of each cover. Of course 



22 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

the colors of the flowers must harmonize with the china, 
but otherwise individual taste should be exercised. 

The illumination of the table is most important. If 
candles are used, they must be so arranged as not to 
interfere with the guests, and the shades so placed that 
they will slip down as the candle burns. If candle light 
is insufficient, try if possible to have the lights come from 
the side rather than from above. 

The Cover. — The place for each guest and the necessary 
plate, silver, glasses, knives, and napkin is called the cover. 

Arrangement of Cover. — Allow twenty inches for every 
person. Place a ten-inch service plate, having decora- 
tions, right side up, in the center of this space, and one 
and one half inches from the edge of the table. 

Arrange knives, edges toward plate, in the order in which 
they will be needed, beginning at the right. At the right 
of knives, place soup spoon, bowl up ; at the right of soup 
spoon, the oyster fork, with tines up ; the other forks, with 
tines up, at the left of the plate, in the order in which 
they will be needed, beginning with the extreme left. 

If there are too many courses to admit of all the silver 
being put on at once, extra silver may be placed at each 
cover just before serving the course requiring it. 

The glass for water should be placed just above the 
center of the plate, to the right, the wineglasses to the 
right of the water glass, in the order in which they are to 
be used. Place the napkins either to the left of the forks, 
or over service plate. They should be so folded as to hold 
a bread stick or dinner roll. 

The name card is generally placed on top of the napkin 
or over the plate. 

Serving the Formal Dinner. — The dinner may be served 
from the butler's pantry, having each course arranged on, 
individual plates, and placed by the waitress, on the right 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 23 

side of the guest, with the right hand, and anything which 
is to be served with the course, passed on a tray to the 
left of the guest and low enough and sufficiently near to 
the guest, to be easily taken with the right hand. Served 
in this way, there is less interruption to conversation. 

Or each dish may be so arranged on a platter or 
serving dish on a tray that the guest may easily serve 
-himself. Served in this way, the waitress places plates 
before each guest before passing the courses. 

At present the service plate is quite universally used ; 
that is, the space in front of the guest is always occupied 
with a plate. When the waitress removes the course plate 
with the left hand, she places another plate with the right 
hand. In this way of serving, the tray, if used at all, is 
only used when the food is passed, not for removing 
dishes. 

Removal of Courses. — When every one has finished, 
the waitress removes one plate at a time, beginning with 
the hostess or with the guest at the right of the hostess. 

Before the dessert, everything not needed for this 
course should be removed from the table ; if there are 
crumbs, they should be carefully brushed with a napkin 
on to a plate or tray. After this is accomplished, place 
the dessert dishes from the right. While the dessert is 
being eaten, the finger bowls, filled one third full of tepid 
water, with a slice of lemon or a geranium leaf or a flower 
in it, set on a doily on a plate, may be placed in front of 
and above the dessert plate. When the dessert plate is 
removed, the finger bowl is moved into the space. If fruit 
follows the dessert, the guest removes the finger bowl and 
doily from the plate and uses that plate for the fruit. 

If coffee is served in the dining room, the finger bowls 
are not placed until after the coffee, but coffee is usually 
served in the drawing room. 



24 LOWNJIY'S COOK BOOK 

Order of Service. — The guests on the right of the host, 
and hostess are served first in the first course, in the sec- 
ond course the guests on the left, in the third course the 
second guest on the right of the host and hostess, and so 
on in rotation, so that no guest is served twice first. 
Some hostesses insist upon being served first. If the 
different courses are passed rather than served from the 
butler's pantry, this may be a good plan, but otherwise 
there seems to be no reason for it. 

MENU FOR A FORMAL DINHER 

First Course 
Oysters or Clams in Shells Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Second Course 
Consomme Croutons 

Third Course 

Broiled Trout — Maitre d'h6tel Butter 

Cucumbers 

Fourth Course 

Croquettes or Sweetbreads 

Fifth Course 

Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly Potatoes 

Peas in Fontage Cups 

Sixth Course 

Punch 

Seventh Course 

Broiled Quail with Chestnut Puree Tomato Salad 

Eighth Course 
Bombe Glace Sponge Cake 

ninth Course 

Fruit and Bonbons 

Tenth Course 

Black Coffee 

Salted almonds and bonbons to be on the table all the time. 

Celery to be passed with oysters. 

Radishes or olives to be passed with fish course. 



DIJVNERS AND LUNCHEONS 25 



When and How to serve Wines 

Sauterne slightly cold with oysters. 

Sherry slightly cold with soup. 

Rhine Wine not very cold with fish. 

Claret slightly cold with entrees. 

Champagne very cold with poultry and meats. 

Burgundy a little warm with game. 

Burgundy and Champagne with salads. 

Port Wine or Madeira temperature of wine cellar with desserts. 

Cordials and brandies with cofEee. 



Courses 

First Course. — Appetizers, cold hors-d'oeuvres, eaten 
preliminary to the dinner, supposed to stimulate the flow 
of the digestive juices and create an appetite. 

Second Course. — Oysters or Shellfish. Salt, pepper, 
cayenne, tabasco sauce, and tiny brown-bread sandAviches 
are passed with this course. 

Third Course. — A Clear Soup. Hors-d'oeuvres, such as 
celery, olives, radishes, or pimolas are passed with this 
course. 

Fourth Course. — Fish, boiled, fried, or baked; sometimes 
potatoes, and generally cucumbers or tomatoes dressed, are 
served. 

Fifth Course. — Entrees. 

Sixth Course. — The Meat Course, one vegetable besides 
the potato. 

Seventh Course. — Frozen Punches or Cheese Dishes. 

Eighth Course. — Game or Poultry and Salad. 

Ninth Course. — Hot Desserts or Cold Desserts. 

Tenth Course. — Frozen Desserts, Cakes, and Preserves 
may be passed with this course. 

Eleventh Course. — Fruits. 

Twelfth Course. — Coffee and Liqueurs. 



26 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

The Informal Dinner 

The hostess serves the soup, and the host the fish and 
the roast. Vegetables, sauces, and entrees are served from 
the side. 

Either the host or hostess makes the salad, and the 
hostess serves the dessert and the coffee. 

The cover is arranged the same as for the Formal 
Dinner. 

The Formal Luncheon 

The table may be covered or bare. If bare, use doilies 
for plates and glasses. 

The arrangement of the cover is the same as for the 
Formal Dinner. 

Lighter dishes are served for luncheon than for dinner; 
entrees take the place of the roast. 

Soup or bouillon is served in cups. Fruit may be 
served for the first course instead of canapes. 

The hostess sometimes serves the salad and the coffee, 
but it is better to have all serving from the side. 

The Formal Breakfast 

This really is the same as the Formal Luncheon except 
that men are invited with the ladies, and coffee is served 
throughout the meal. 

The Informal Luncheon 

Like the Informal Dinner except that the roasts are 
omitted. 

When luncheon is announced, the first course may be 
on the table, and the dishes required for the remaining 
courses arranged on the side table. 

Seldom more than three courses are served. 

Tea, coffee, or cocoa are served throughout the meal. 



BUTLER'S DUTIES 27 



BUTLER'S DUTIES 



A butler is generally given full charge of the dining 
room, as well as of the other men servants. 

He waits on the table at breakfast, usually alone ; but if 
the family is large or there are guests present, he may be 
assisted. 

He directs the washing of dishes and the cleaning of the 
silver. He prepares the salad. He attends to the bell, to 
the fires, to the lighting of the house. He makes and 
serves afternoon tea, and sets the table for dinner. 

He announces all the meals, serves the dinner, does all 
the carving. If he is assisted, he serves the principal 
dishes, and the assistant serves the vegetables and sauces. 

He is responsible for the safety of the silver, for the 
arrangement of the flowers and fruits, and for the proper 
serving of the wines. He has full charge of all refresh- 
ments served in the evening, and is responsible for the 
locking of the house at night. 

He alternates with the footman or waitress in answering 
the bell in the evening. 

GARNISHINGS 

It has been said that " what appeals to the eye generally 
appeals to the palate." 

Use care and taste in serving ; dainty service will make 
the simplest food most attractive. 

Never allow any food which looks unsightly to be 
served. Toasted bread, burned on one side, may take 
away the appetite, but toasted a golden brown on both 
sides, with crusts cut off and then cut in strips and served 
in between the folds of a fresh doily, will appeal to the 
most fastidious. 

Parsley is always used to garnish meats. Meats should 



28 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

be skewered into shapely pieces before being cooked, and 
served on dishes to display them well. 

Steaks and chops should be trimmed before cooking, 
then broiled evenly on all sides — never burned. 

Ribs chops should be garnished with chops frills. 

Slices of lemon, hard-cooked eggs cut in- strips, chopped 
pickles, and parsley are used for garnishing fish. 

Cold sweet dishes are garnished mostly with jellies cut 
in cubes, and candied fruits, red cherries and angelica 
being the most popular. 

Nuts and raisins are also used. 

Ice creams are garnished with meringues and spun sugar. 

Cakes are garnished with nuts and plain and fancy 
frostings put through a pastry bag and tube. 

Whatever garnishing is used, avoid overdoing the 
matter ; the simplest is always the most attractive. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

4 gills make 1 pint 1 measuring cup = 2 gills 

2 pints make 1 quart 4 measuring cups = 1 quart 

4 quarts make 1 gallon 2 measuring cups = 1 pint 

All measures in this book are level. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material fill spoon and 
level off with a knife. 

One half spoonful is measured by cutting one spoonful 
through lengthwise. 

Table of Measures 

3 teaspoons = 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons = \ cup 

2 tablespoons butter = 1 ounce 

1 cup solid butter = J pound 

2 cups flour = J pound 
9 large eggs = 1 pound 



WEIGBTS AND MEASUBE8 29 



Table of Proportions 

1 cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread 
1 cup liquid to 2 cups flour for muflans 
1 cup liquid to 1 cup flour for batters 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses 
J teaspoon salt to 4 cups custard 

2 teaspoons salt to 4 cups water 

\ teaspoon salt to 1 cup white sauce 
i teaspoon pepper to 1 cup white sauce. 



PART II 



RECIPES 



PART II 



CHAPTER I 
FIRST-COURSE DISHES 

Canapes 

Canapes are made from white, graham, and brown bread, 
sliced very thin and cut in various shapes. They may be 
dipped in melted butter, toasted or fried. The slices may 
be covered with any of the following mixtures. Served 
hot or cold. 

Anchovy Canapis 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, cut in circles, 
dip in melted butter, sprinkle with salt and cayenne, 
spread with anchovy paste, and sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

Caviare Canapes 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices, cut slices four inches 
long and two inches wide. Fry in deep fat, or toast. 
Spread toast with caviare paste, sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice and paprika. Garnish with finely chopped 
green or red pepper. 

Cheese Canapis 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices, spread lightly with 
French mustard, sprinkle with grated cheese and finely 
chopped olives. Or brown in oven before sprinkling with 
olives. 

33 



34 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Crab Canapes 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, three inches 
long, and one inch and a half wide. Spread with butter 
and brown in oven. Mix one cup chopped crab meat, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, two drops tabasco, one half tea- 
spoon salt, a few drops of onion juice, and two tablespoons 
olive oil. Mark the bread diagonally in four sections and 
spread them alternately with melted cheese and crab mix- 
ture. Separate sections with finely chopped pimento. 

Bacon Canapis 

Cut bread in triangles one fourth inch thick, saute in 

bacon fat. Spread with French mustard, cover with 

cooked bacon finely chopped, and sprinkle with finely 

chopped pimolas. 

Ham Canapis 

Cut bread in slices one quarter inch thick, then in cir- 
cles. Saute in butter. Spread with finely chopped ham 
mixed to a paste with creamed butter and seasoned highly. 
Sprinkle with finely chopped, hard-cooked eggs. 

Lobster Canapes 

Cut bread in one-fourth-inch slices ; shape with dough- 
nut cutter. Cream two tablespoons butter, add one cup 
finely chopped lobster meat, one teaspoon mustard, few 
drops Worcestershire sauce, few grains cayenne, and six 
olives finely chopped. Saute bread in butter and spread 
with above mixture. 

Salmon Canapes 

Shape bread, cut one fourth inch thick, with a cooky 
cutter. Spread with butter and brown in the oven. Ar- 
range around the outer edge of the circle finely chopped 



FIBST-COUESB DISHES 35 

truffles. Next finely chopped white of egg. Next yolk 
of egg which has been pressed through a sieve. Then 
finely flaked salmon. Garnish salmon with a small sprig 
of parsley. 

Just before serving pour over a few drops of olive oil 
or place a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on the salmon. 

Sardine Canapes 

Cut brown bread in circles, spread with butter, and heat 
in the oven. Pound sardines to a paste, add an equal 
amount of finely chopped, hard-cooked eggs, season with 
lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Spread on brown 
bread. Garnish each canape in the center vnth a circle of 
hard-cooked white of egg capped with a teaspoonful hard- 
cooked yolk. 

Tomato and Cucumber Canapes 

Fry circles of bread in deep fat. Fry slices of tomato 
in deep fat. Place one slice of tomato on each circle of 
bread. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Garnish each 
slice with one slice of cucumber and hard-cooked white 
of egg cut in shape of petal, to represent a daisy. 

Nut and Olive Canapes 

Cut bread in crescents. Fry in deep fat. Mix equal 
quantities of chopped nuts and olives, with enough may- 
onnaise dressing to spread. Spread on fried bread, and 
garnish with small diamonds of pimentoes. 

Tongue Canap6s 
Toast triangles of graham bread, spread with butter. 
Cut slices of cooked tongue in small pieces, mix with 
creamed butter to a paste, add two tablespoons capers to 
each half cup of tongue. Spread on bread. Sprinkle with 
salt and cayenne, and garnish with chopped water cress. 



36 LOWNJSY'S COOK BOOK 

Clam Cocktail 

1 pint small clams 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

2 tablespoons Worcestershire 1 tablespoon horseradish 

sauce 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar • few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons lemon juice few drops tabasco 

Place clams in shallow dish after removing the black 
parts. Mix other ingredients. Pour over clams, and let 
stand -for several hours. Serve ice cold in small glasses, 
as a first course. 

The clams may be mixed with the sauce and served in 

halves of grapefruit, in lemon shells, or tomato cups. 

Set on a bed of ice. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Follow recipe for clam cocktail, using one pint small 

oysters drained from their liquor in place of clams. 

Shrimp Cocktail 
Substitute onepint.shrimp for clams, and proceed as for 

clam cocktail. 

Oysters on Half Shell 

30 oysters in the shell 3 lemons cut in halves 

6 teaspoons grated horseradish . 6 teaspoons vinegar 
^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

cayenne ' paprika 

parsley , 

Open oysters ; loosen. Serve in shell on bed of ice, hav- 
ing the small ends of the shell poiijt toward the center of 
the dish. Wash lemons, cut in halves, remove seeds, and 
serve one half in the center of each plate. Garnish 
with passley. Mix horseradish, salt, vinegar, and to- 
mato catsup, seasoned with paprika and cayenne. Serve 
in small glass dish and pass to each person. 

Clams on Half Shell 

Follow recipe for oysters on half shell, substituting clams. 



CHAPTER II 

SOUPS 

SOUP ACCESSORIES 

\ Browned Crackers 

8 crackers butter 

salt cayenne 

•Spread crackers witli butter, sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne, and brown in oven. 

Cheese Crackers 

8 crackers grated cheese 

salt, cayenne butter 

Spread crackers thinly with butter, sprinkle with salt 
and cayenne, and cover with grated cheese. Cook in 
oven until cheese is melted. 

Crisps 

4 slices of bread butter 

salt cayenne 

Spread bread? with butter or dip in melted butter. 
Sprinkle with seasonings. Remove crusts and cut in 
long narrow strips. Brown in slow oven. 

Rings may be cut frem the pi^pared bread and browned 

in the oven, Three of the narrow strips may be inserted 

in each ring. 

Croiitons 

Cut b;:ead one fourth inch in thickness, rercove crust. 
Cut slices in swips, and strips in cubes. Dip in melted 
butter, brown in the oven or fry in deep fat. 

37 



38 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

SOUP GARNISHINGS 

Cheese Balls 

J cup butter i teaspoon salt 

f cup flour cayenne and paprika 

J cup water 3 eggs 

J cup grated cheese 

Melt butter, add water, and cook two minutes ; add 
seasonings and flour, boil until mixture forms in a mass in 
center of pan. Cool slightly, add eggs unbeaten, one at a 
time, add cheese, drop from teaspoon into hot fat, drain, 
and serve immediately. 

Egg Balls 

4 hard-cooked eggs salt and cayenne 

1 raw egg yolk 1 white of egg 

flour or sifted cracker crumbs 

Mash yolks of eggs, add seasonings, and enough yolk of 
egg to form a paste. Shape into balls the size of a 
walnut, dip in slightly beaten white of egg, dip in flour 
or cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve 
with soup. 

Rice Balls 

1 cup cold cooked rice 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
salt, cayenne, nutmeg 1 egg 

Press rice through sieve, add flour, egg and seasonings. 
Roll in balls, allowing a teaspoon for each ball. Cook in 
boiling salted water until they harden on the outside. 
Serve hot with soup. 

Marrow Balls 
4 tablespoons marrow salt, cayenne, nutmeg 

1 egg soft bread crumbs 

Cook marrow in frying pan, strain, beat, add egg, season- 
ings, and enough bread crumbs to make of a consistency 
to shape. Form in small balls and poach in hot water. 



SOUPS 39 

Fritter Beans 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons milk 

1 teaspoon butter 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 teaspoon lard salt, pepper, cayenne 

Melt butter and lard, add milk; when boiling, add flour 
and seasonings; cook two minutes, stirring constantly; add 
cheese and eggs, cool, drop from teaspoon into hot fat, 
drain, and serve with soups. 

Noodles 

flour 1 egg 

J teaspoon salt cayenne 

slight grating of nutmeg 

Beat egg. Add seasonings and enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Work on floured board until smooth and 
elastic. Cut a small portion and roll thin as a wafer. 
Cut in fancy shapes and cook in boiling salted water or 
soup stock twenty minutes. Serve hot in soups. 

This paste may be spread on the bottom of inverted 
dripping pans and baked in a quick oven. Crease before 
removing from pan. 

Ifoodle Balls 
Use Noodle Mixture, allowing less flour, shape into 
round marbles, and cook in boiling salted water twenty to 
thirty minutes. Serve hot in soups. 

Vegetable Cubes 

2 egg yolks J cup mashed peas 

J cup beef stock salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 whole egg nutmeg 

Mix yolks of egg, whole egg, peas and seasonings, add 
hot stock. Pour into buttered tin to the depth of one inch, 
set into hot water, and bake in slow oven until mixture is 
firm. Cool, cut in cubes, and serve in soups. 



40 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Chicken Quenelles 

J pound chicken 2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons butter salt and nutmeg 

cayenne milk 
1 egg 

Chop chicken and press through a sieve. Soak bread in 
milk, press through sieve, add melted butter, egg slightly 
beatea, chicken, seasonings, and milk to make of the con- 
sistency to shape. Shape between two spoons, and poach 
in boiling salted water. 

Fish Quenelles 

1 cup fish salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 egg white | cup cream 

Chop fish and press through a sieve. Add unbeaten 
white of egg and cream beaten until stiff; add seasonings, 
and poach in boiling water. 

This mixture may be rolled in balls or shaped in tea- 
spoons. 

SOUPS 

Brown soup stock is made from beef and vegetables, or 
from beef, veal and fowl, and vegetables. 

Veal with onion and celery and seasonings makes 
white stock ; or veal and chicken together, with celery, 
onions, and seasonings, are used for white stock. 

Cream soups are generally made without stock, milk or 
cream being the liquid used, the foundation made from 
fish or vegetables. 

Chicken stock is made from fowl, resembles white stock, 
but not quite so rich. 

The meats used for soups are the poorer parts of the 
creature — the shin, the round, the neck of beef, the 
knuckle of veal, and the whole bird of fowls. 

A bouquet of sweet herbs is used for seasoning soups; 



SOUPS 41 

it is composed of parsley, baj leaf, cloves, peppercorns, 
thyme and marjoram. 

Stock Soups 

Skill, patience and good materials are necessary for the 
making of good soup. In order to draw out and dissolve 
the nutritive and flavoring qualities of meat, cut the meat 
into small pieces, cover with cold water, and let stand at 
least an hour, then heat very gradually. 

For a rich stock allow one pint of water to each pound 
of meat and bone, having only one quarter pound bone 
and three quarters meat. One kind of meat may be used, 
or several kinds. If soup is made from remnants of cold 
meat, be sure to add a small amount of fresh meat to give 
added flavor. Remember that if the contents of the soup 
kettle are allowed to boil for any length of time, it will 
be almost impossible to secure a clear soup from the stock. 

How to clear Soup Stock 

Allow the white and shell of one egg for two quarts of' 
strained stock. Beat the white, add crushed shell and 
the cold stock, pour into kettle, set over the fire, and stir 
constantly until the boiling point is reached ; boil three 
minutes without stirring, then simmer for ten minutes, 
strain through sieve, then through a cheese cloth ; reheat 
and serve. If these directions are followed, an absolutely 
clear soup will be the result. 

To keep Soup Stock 
When the stock is ready to strain, strain into several 
receptacles ; a coating of fat will form on the top, which 
serves to keep out the air. This fat must be removed be- 
fore clearing the stock. Stock with a coating of fat will 
keep a week in summer and several weeks in winter. If the 
weather is very warm, scald the stock, then cool quickly. 



42 



LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 



1 can of asparagus or 
1 bunch of asparagus 
4 cups cold water 
3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 



Asparagus Soup 

2 teaspoons salt 

a few grains cayenne 

1 cup cream 

2 slices onion 
J teaspoon white pepper 

2 cups milk 

Wash asparagus if fresh and break off tips; break re- 
mainder of stalks into small pieces. Cook tips and stalks in 
cold water separately. When tender, drain; reserve water. 
Keep tips for garnishing soup. Press stalks through a 
puree sieve. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, add 
asparagus water, and thicken with flour and butter 
cooked together. Bring mixture to boiling point ; add 
cream and seasonings. Pour over tips and serve. 

Note. — If canned asparagus is used, drain, add water and cook 
in milk in a double boiler twenty minutes. Then drain and proceed as 
with fresh asparagus. 

Artichoke Soup 

2 cups scalded milk 
legg 

1 teaspoon salt 
1 slice onion 
few grains cayenne 

Cook artichokes and onion in water till tender. Drain, 
press«through sieve, and return to water. Melt butter ; 
add flour and scalded milk. Cook until mixture thickens. 
Combine mixtures, add seasonings, and just before serving 
pour on to beaten egg. 

Bean Soup 



1 can artichokes 
3 cups cold water 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 



1 cup Lima beans 
4 cups cold water 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 
1 sprig parsley 

1 stalk celery 

2 tablespoons carrot 



4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

3 cups milk 
salt and cayenne 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
^ teaspoon pepper 



SOUPS 43 

Soak beans over night. Cook beans, onion, parsley, 
celery and carrot in cold water ; when tender rub through 
a sieve. Melt butter ; add flour, milk and seasonings ; 
cook five minutes. Combine mixtures and serve. 

One cup stewed tomatoes added to this soup makes a 
pleasant variation. 

Kidney Bean Soup 

Use recipe for bean soup, substituting kidney beans for 
Lima beans and adding one tablespoon vinegar. 

Baked Bean Soup 

2 cups baked beans 4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups tomatoes salt, pepper, and celery salt 

2 cups -water 2 tablespoons chopped pickle 

Cook beans in water ten minutes ; press through a sieve. 
Cook onion in butter five minutes ; add flour and season- 
ings. When well blended, add tomato, cook five minutes, 
strain, add bean mixture, reheat, and serve with chopped 
pickles. 

If beans are very sweet, it may be necessary to add one 
to two tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar. 

Cabbage Soup 

1 small cabbage 4 tablespoons butter 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk | teaspoon pepper 

3 slices onion few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 

Chop cabbage, add water, and cook until tender ; press 
through a sieve. Melt butter, add chopped onion, cook 
slowly five minutes, add flour, scalded milk, cabbage 
mixture; cook five minutes. Add seasonings, strain, and 
serve. 



44 



LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



carrots 

2 slices onion 

sprig parsley 

\ cup rice 

4 tablespoons butter 



Carrot Soup 



1| teaspoons salt 
few grains cayenne 
2 cups water 
2 cups scalded milk 
2 tablespoons flour 



Chop enough carrots to make two cups. Cook in water 
until tender. Press through sieve, reserving liquor. Cook 
rice in milk in double boiler. Cook onion in butter ; add 
flour and seasonings. Mix carrot mixture with rice and 
milk and pour on to butter and flour; bring to the boil- 
ing point, strain, and serve. Garnish with chopped pars- 
ley. If this soup seems too thick, thin with cream or milk. 

Cauliflower Soup 

1 medium-sized cauliflower 2 cups scalded milk 
4 cups cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter 2 slices onion 

4 tablespoons flour 1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons grated cheese few grains cayenne 

Cook cauliflower in cold water until tender ; drain, press 
through a sieve, add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter, 
add flour ; when well blended, add cauliflower mixture, 
seasonings; cook five minutes, strain, add yolk of egg 
slightly beaten, and cheese. 

Celery Soup 

2 cups celery 

1 quart cold water 

2 slices onion 
4 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

Chop celery ; cook in water until tender. Cook onion 
and mace in milk twenty minutes ; strain. Melt butter ; 
add flour and seasonings. Combine celery and milk 
mixtures, thicken with butter and flour cooked together, 
and cook five minutes and serve. 

Note. — Pieces of celery not suitable for the table may be utilized 
for this soup. The leaves and root of celery make a very good soup. 



2 cups scalded milk 
11 teaspoons salt 
1 blade of mace 
cayenne 
celery salt 



SOUPS 45 

Chestnut Soup 
2 Clips chestnuts shelled and blanched 

3 cups cold water nutmeg 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons onion 

J teaspoon celery salt 4 tablespoons butter 

salt 2 tablespoons flour 

cayenne 1 cup cream 

Cook chestnuts in cold water until tender, press 
through a sieve, and add scalded milk. Cook onion in 
butter five minutes, add flour, seasonings, and chestnut 
mixture. Cook five minutes, add cream, strain, and serve. 

Note. — To shell chestnuts, make a cross on either side of the nut 
■with a sharp knife. Put one teaspoon melted butter in dripping pan ; 
add chestnuts and cook in oven until shells come off easily. 

Cucumber Soup 

4 cucumbers 4 tablespoons butter 
4 stalks of celery 4 tablespoons flour 

4 cups milk salt and pepper 

2 slices onion cayenne and celery salt 

1 tablespoon chopped pepper 1 cup cream or rich milk 

Chop cucumbers and celery; add onion and pepper; cook 
in milk in double boiler twenty minutes. Add flour and 
butter cooked together, and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes, strain, add cream, reheat, and serve. 

Corn Soup 

1 can corn or 1| teaspoons salt 

6 ears of corn celery salt and cayenne 

2 cups cold water 3 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons chopped onion 3 tablespoons flour 
2 cups scalded milk 1 cup beaten cream 

1 cup popped corn 

Cook corn in cold water twenty minutes. Press through 
a sieve ; add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter, add flour 
and seasonings, corn mixture, cook five minutes, strain, add 
beaten cream, and serve. Garnish with popped corn. 



46 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Onion Soup 

6 medium-sized onions 3 tablespoons butter 

3 cups cold water 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups scalded milk 1 egg yolk 

salt and cayenne 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon pimento 

Chop onions, cook in two tablespoons butter five 
minutes ; add water, cook thirty minutes, press through 
a sieve. Melt remaining butter, add flour, scalded milk, 
and seasonings, cook five minutes. Combine mixtures, 
add egg yolks slightly beaten, Parmesan cheese, and 
pimento. 

Pea Soup 

1 can peas 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups cold water 3 tablespoons flour 
\\ teaspoons salt 3 cups scalded milk 

a bit of bay leaf 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

cayenne and celery salt 

Cook peas, bay leaf, onion, and cold water twenty 
minutes. Press through a sieve. Make a white sauce of 
butter, flour, and milk. Combine mixtures, add season- 
ings, and serve. 

Note. — Cold cooked peas may be used instead of canned peas. 

Rice Soup 

1 cup rice 2 cups cream 

6 cups cold water 4 tablespoons butter 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 green pepper salt, cayenue, and nutmeg 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Cook rice, onion, and pepper in cold water until rice is 
tender. Press through a sieve. Melt butter, add flour, 
cream, and seasonings; boil five minutes. Combine mix- 
tures. Add parsley and serve. 



SOUPS 



47 



1 cup chopped sorrel 

1 pint cold water 

2 tablespoons butter 
1 cup milk 

4 tablespoons flour 



Sorrel Soup 

salt and cayenne 

1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

2 eggs 

1 cup cream 

2 slices onion 



Cook onion and sorrel in butter five minutes, add water, 
cook thirty minutes. Cook milk and flour in double 
boiler twenty minutes, add cream, beaten eggs, catsup, 
and strained sorrel mixture. Season and serve. <. 



2 quarts spinach 
6 cups cold water 
bit of bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter 



Spinach Soup 

2 cups milk 

1 clove of garlic or 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 
cayenne pepper and celery salt 

3 tablespoons flour 
I cup cream 



Cook spinach in water thirty minutes. Press through 
a sieve, scald milk with onion and bay leaf, add butter 
and flour cooked together, strain, add seasonings, and 
spinach inixture; cook five minutes and serve. Garnish 
with beaten cream. 

Squash Soup 



2 cups cooked and strained squash 
4 cups milk 

2 slices onion 
bit of bay leaf 

3 tablespoons butter 



3 tablespoons flour 

salt and cayenne 

J cup cream 

2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon Liebig's beef extract 



Cook onion in butter five minutes, add flour, extract, 
seasonings, and milk in which bay leaf has been scalded, 
cook five minutes; add squash, strain, add two tablespoons 
of butter, and serve. Garnish with beaten cream. 



48 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Potato Soup 

5 potatoes, boiled salt, pepper, and cayenne 

2 tablespoons onion 3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

J teaspoon celery salt 1 quart milk 

Cook onion and carrot in butter five minutes, add flour, 
milk, seasonings; cook in double boiler twenty minutes; 
add mashed potato, and serve after straining. One cup 
stewed and strained tomatoes or one fourth cup tomato 
catsup may be used to vary this soup. 

Tomato Soup 

1 can tomatoes 3 tablespoons butter 

2 slices onion 2 tablespoons flour 
2 sprigs parsley 4 cups water 

bit of bay leaf 3 cloves 

few gratings of nutmeg salt and cayenne 

Melt butter, add flour. Cook remaining ingredients to- 
gether twenty minutes. Press through a sieve and thicken 
with flour mixture. If tomato lacks flavor, season highly 
with Worcestershire sauce and tabasco sauce. 

Tomato Bisque Soup 

1 can tomatoes IJ teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons chopped onion \ teaspoon soda 

\ cup flour cayenne and celery salt 

\ cup butter 6 cloves 

Melt butter, add onion, cook five minutes; add flour, 
milk, and seasonings, cook in double boiler twenty min- 
utes. Cook tomatoes, press through a sieve, add soda. 
Combine mixtures and strain. Serve immediately. If 
tomato is very acid, it may be necessary to add more soda 
to neutralize. 



SOUPS 49 

Tomato Soup with Stock 

1 can tomatoes 1 sprig parsley 

2 tablespoons chopped onion bit of bay leaf 

2 tablespoons flour 2 cups brown stock 

2 tablespoons butter salt and cayenne 

2 tablespoons green pepper 2 tablespoons horesradish 

1 teaspoon lemon juice J cup cooked macaroni cut in 

rings 

Melt butter, add green pepper and onion, cook five min- 
utes; add tomato, horseradish, stock, and seasonings. 
Thicken with butter and flour cooked together. Simmer 
ten minutes, strain, add macaroni and serve. This soup 
unstrained would be a puree. 

Turnip Soup 

2 cups hot mashed turnip J onion 

1 cup hot mashed potato 4 cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons butter 

2 teaspoons salt J teaspoon pepper 

Mix turnip, potato, and scalded milk. Melt butter, add 
flour, salt, and pepper ; when well blended add turnip 
mixture and onion cut in small pieces. Cook in double 
boiler twenty minutes, stirring occasionally; strain and 
serve. 

Water Cress Soup 

3 cups chopped cress 4 cups milk 

4 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon beef extract 

IJ teaspoons salt cayenne and Worcestershire 

1 cup whipped cream sauce 

Cook cress, butter and onion together five minutes; add 
flour and seasonings. When smooth add milk in which 
extract has been mixed, cook twenty minutes, strain, serve, 
and garnish with whipped cream. 



50 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Vegetable Soup 

1 cup chopped carrot 2 cups chopped potato 

1 cup chopped turnip 1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped celery 4 cups milk 

\ cup butter or pork fat salt, pepper, cayenne 

Parboil potatoes ten minutes. Melt butter, add vege- 
tables, cook ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Add water 
and boil until vegetables are tender. Season, strain, gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

Black Bean Puree 

2 cups black beans IJ teaspoons salt 
8 cups water 6 cloves 

i tablespoons chopped pork \ teaspoon mustard 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 1 hard-cooked egg 

1 lemon sliced 

Soak beans over night, drain, add water, and cook until 
tender — four or five hours. Press through a sieve; cook 
pork in a frying pan; add onion, cook five minutes; add 
bean mixture; melt butter; add flour and seasonings; com- 
bine mixtures; strain. Garnish with egg cut in slices and 
lemon. 

A ham bone cooked with the beans is considered by 
many to be an improvement. 

Split Pea Pur^e 

2 cups split peas 2 drops tabasco sauce 

8 cups water 4 tablespoons chopped pork 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons butter 
1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

Soak peas over night, drain, cook until tender. Cook 
onion and salt pork together ten minutes; add to pea mix- 
ture. Press through a sieve, melt butter, add flour, milk, 
seasonings, and cook five minutes. Combine mixtures 
and serve. 



SOUPS ' 51 

Lentil Purle 

Prepare the same as split pea puree, substituting one 
and one half cups lentils for split peas. 



Potato Chowder 

3 cups potatoes cut into dice 3 cups milk 

J cup salt pork cut into dice 1 cup water 

J cup onion 1 tablespoon parsley 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour cayenne and celery salt 

Cook salt pork in frying pan ten minutes; add onion, 
cook ten minutes. Put a layer of parboiled potatoes in 
kettle, cover with onions and salt pork, and so continue 
until all potatoes and onions are used. 

Cover with water and simmer until potatoes are tender. 
Melt butter; add flour, milk and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes. Combine mixtures. 

If potatoes are very old, it is better to parboil them be- 
fore putting them with the onion. 

Corn Chowder 

1 can corn 3 cups water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 2 cups milk 

1 cup potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

J cup onion 1 tablespoon flour 

salt and cayenne J cup cracker crumbs 

Cook salt pork in frying pan five minutes; add onion 
and cook until yellow. Parboil potatoes five minutes; 
add to onion with corn and water; cook twenty minutes. 
Thicken milk with butter and flour cooked together. 
Combine mixtures; add cracker crumbs and seasonings, 
and serve. 

Succotash may be substituted for corn. 



52 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Clam Chowder 

4 cups clams 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups potatoes 1 teaspoon tabasco sauce 

J cup onion , 2 cups boiling water 

^ cup salt pork cut in cubes 4 cups milk, scalded 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 

Remove heads from clams and chop. Parboil potatoes. 
Cook onion and salt pork together ten minutes. Arrange 
clams, potatoes, onion, and salt pork in layers in the ket- 
tle; cover with boiling water, and simmer until tender. 
Thicken milk with flour and butter cooked together; add 
fish mixture and seasonings, and serve. 

Fish Chowder 

1 haddock -weighing five pounds 4 cups hot water 

4 cups potato dice 2 tablespoons butter 

\ cup onion dice 4 tablespoons flour 

\ cup salt pork dice 4 cups milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Remove head and skin and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin and bones with cold water; simmer twenty min- 
utes; strain. Reserve liquor. 

Parboil potatoes ten minutes. Cook onions in salt pork 
until yellow. Arrange in layers, fish, potatoes, onions, and 
salt pork; cover with water in which bones were cooked, 
and simmer until potatoes are tender. Thicken milk with 
butter and flour cooked together, combine mixtures, add 
seasonings, and pour over buttered crackers which have 
been previously soaked in cold milk. 

Caution. — Do not allow onion or salt pork to burn. 

New England Chowder 

4 cups clams or 4 tablespoons butter 

4 pounds haddock 2 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons onion 2 cups boiling water 

4 cups tomatoes salt, pepper, and cayenne 

4 tablespoons salt pork fat 10 buttered crackers 

3 cups potato dice 



SOUPS 53 

Cook onion in salt pork fat until yellow; add clams or 
fish free from bone; simmer twenty minutes. Parboil 
potatoes, drain, and add to fish with boiling water. Cook 
until potatoes are tender. 

Melt butter; add flour, tomatoes and seasonings. Com- 
bine mixtures, and pour over buttered crackers which have 
been previously soaked in cold milk. 

Lobster Chowder 
2 cups lobster meat 4 cups milk 

J cup onion salt, cayenne, blade of mace 

1 cup salt pork fat 1 cup hot cream 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Cook onion in salt pork fat; melt butter; add fiour, milk 

and seasonings, and cook in double boiler with lobster cut 

in cubes twenty minutes ; add strained salt pork fat, hot 

cream, and serve. 

Crab Chowder 

Prepare the same as lobster chowder, substituting crab 

meat for lobster meat. 

Shrimp Chowder 
Prepare the same as lobster chowder, substituting 
shrimps for lobster meat. 

Salt Codfish Chowder 

\ oup salt pork fat 3 cups potato cut in cubes 

2 onions cut in small pieces salt, pepper, cayenne 

2 cups shredded codfish 1 cup boiling water 

1 cup cream 8 crackers buttered 

4 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Soak codfish in cold water one hour; drain. Parboil 
potatoes ten minutes. Cook onions in pork fat, add drained 
potatoes, fish, and one cup of boiling water; cook until 
potatoes are tender. Melt butter; add flour, milk, cream 
and seasonings. Combine mixtures, cook five minutes, 
and serve with crackers which have been previously soaked 
in milk. 



54 



lownet's cook book 



2 cups clams 

2 tablespoons onion 
bit of bay leaf 

3 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons flour 



Clam Bisque 

2 cups chicken stock 

1 teaspoon salt 
pepper and cayenne 

2 cups hot cream 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 



Chop clams, and cook in stock twenty minutes. Melt 
butter; add onions; cook five minutes; add flour, strained 
clam liquor; cook five minutes; add seasonings, cream, and 
serve. 



6 crabs 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons onion 
1 teaspoon salt 



Crab Bisque 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

I half cup boiled rice 

cayenne and blade of mace 



Boil crabs in water to cover twenty minutes. Remove 
meat, add rice, and cook in two tablespoons butter five 
minutes; add onion, cook five minutes, and press all through 
a sieve. Scald mace in milk. Thicken milk with butter 
and flour cooked together; add seasonings. 

Combine mixtures, reheat, and serve. 



2 cups lobster meat 
2 cups boiled rice 
2 oups white stock 
J tablespoon salt 
lobster coral 



Lobster Bisque 

4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

pepper, cayenne and nutmeg 

2 tablespoons Madeira 



Cook lobster, rice and white stock twenty minutes; press 
through a sieve. Thicken milk with flour and butter 
cooked together; add seasonings. Combine mixtures and 
thin with cream to desired consistency. Garnish with 
lobster coral pressed through a sieve. 



SOUPS 55 

Oyster Bisque 
2 cups ■white stock or milk 1 cup cream 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley salt, pepper, cayenne 
blade of mace 1 egg 

2 cups oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cook oysters in white stock until edges curl. Strain, re- 
serve liquor, and chop oysters ; press through a sieve ; add 
butter and flour cooked together, seasonings, and cream; 
cook five minutes, add to egg slightly beaten, and serve. 

Clam Bisque No. 2 

Substitute clams for oysters and proceed as for oyster 

bisque. 

Oyster Bisque a la Reine 

4 cups oysters salt, paprika, cayenne 

1 cup milk ^ cup cracker crumbs 

1 egg 1 cup finely chopped chicken meat 

2 tablespoons butter parsley 

dash nutmeg 

Cook oysters in their own liquor until edges shrivel. 
Drain; reserve liquor; chop oysters. Melt butter; add 
cracker crumbs and milk. Cook five minutes; add season- 
ings; combine mixtures; strain thoroughly. Add beaten 
egg and chicken meat. 

Bisque of Shrimps, Bretonne 

1 quart shrimps 1 tablespoon carrot 

2 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons celery 

3 tablespoons butter J cup chopped mushrooms 
2 cups white stock salt and cayenne 

1 cup white wine 

Cook shrimps and vegetables in butter; add seasonings, 
white stock, and boil five minutes. Press through a sieve. 
Add wine and serve immediately. 

By adding one cup of cream and two tablespoons of 
butter a much richer and smoother soup may be made. 



66 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Bouillon 

6 pounds round of beef finely 1 small onion stuck with cloves 

chopped I cup celery 

3 quarts cold water J cup carrot 

1 pound bones, cracked 6 peppercorns 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cloves 

1 teaspoon finely chopped red or J cup sherry 

green pepper 2 tablespoons butter 

Cover meat and bones with cold water; simmer four 
hours. Saute vegetables in butter; add to stock with 
seasonings. Cook one hour longer, strain, cool, remove 
fat, and clear. Serve. 

Brown Soup Stock 

Is made like bouillon, with the addition of three sprigs 
of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and omission of the sherry. 
If the stock is not sufficiently brown, add one teaspoon 
kitchen bouquet for each quart of stock, or one teaspoon 
of caramelized sugar. 

Many prefer browning a portion of the meat before 
covering with cold water, to give color to the soup. 

If this method is employed, use one quart less water. 

St. Germain Soup 

6 cups brown stock 1 can peas 

2 tablespoons onion bit of bay leaf 

1 sprig parsley salt, pepper, cayenne 

3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 

Reserve one fourth cup of peas for garnishing; cook 
remainder of peas, onion, bay leaf and parsley in stock ten 
minutes; mash through a sieve. Make a white sauce of 
butter, flour and milk; combine mixtures, cook five min- 
utes, add peas, and serve with sippets of bread. 



SOUPS 57 

Consommg 

8 pounds beef J cup turnip 1 sprig thyme 

2-pound knuckle of veal J cup onion 1 bay leaf 

1 small fowl 1 tablespoon salt 1 sprig parsley 

J cup carrot 1 sprig marjoram 6 quarts cold water 

Simmer beaf, veal, and fowl in water four hours; add 
vegetables, salt, and herbs tied in a bag; cook slowly one 
hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, and serve. 

Consomme is the foundation for all clear soups, each 
soup taking its name from the garnishing which is used. 
Consomml with Barley 

2 tablespoons pearl barley 2 quarts consomme 
8 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

Cook barley in boiling water until tender; add salt, 
reheat in consomme, and serve. 

Consomml with Eggs 

2 quarts consommd 4 cups water 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Poach eggs in salted water. Place in a tureen and pour 
hot consomme over them. 

Consomm6 Claret 

2 quarts consomind 2 cups claret 

1 inch stick cinnamon 2 cups hot water 

3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

Cook cinnamon in consomme ; add claret and hot water. 
Beat egg yolks ; add hot mixture slowly to them. Cut 
and fold in the beaten whites. Serve immediately. 

Vegetable ConsommS 

8 cups consomme 2 tablespoons turnips 

2 tablespoons c&rrots 2 tablespoons green peas 

2 tablespoons string beans 2 tablespoons asparagus tips 

Cut carrots and turnips in inch straws, add remaining 
vegetables, and cook in boiling salted water until tender ; 
add consomme, reheat, and serve. 



68 lowney's cook book 

Consomml a I'ltalienne 

2 tablespoons spaghetti 2 cups consomm^ 

4 tablespooiis mushrooms 2 tablespoons butter 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water; when tender, cut 
in rings. Cut mushrooms in slices and saute with spa- 
ghetti in melted butter. Heat consomme, add spaghetti 
and mushrooms, and serve. 

Consomme au Riz 

8 cups consommd 8 cups boiling water 

J cup rice IJ teaspoons salt 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender ; drain, 
pour over rice six cups boiling water to wash off starch 
and separate kernels ; add hot consomme and serve. 

Swiss Consomml 

6 cups consomme J cup turnip cut in fancy shapes 

J cup carrot out in fancy shapes 1 cup celery cut in small pieces 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons cold cooked chicken 

1 cup roasted chestnuts cut in slices 

Melt butter, add vegetables, and cook until yellow. 
Cook in boiling water until tender, being careful not to 
overcook. Drain ; add hot consomme, chestnuts, and 
chicken. Season with salt and pepper if necessary. 

Chicken Consomm€ 

1 fowl cut in pieces IJ tablespoons salt 

4 quarts cold water pepper, cayenne and celery salt 

J cup onion bit of bay leaf 

J cup celery sprig of parsley 

Cover fowl with cold water ; bring to the boiling point ; 
then simmer four hours ; add vegetables and seasonings, and 
simmer one hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, clear, and serve. 

If all the stock is not needed at once, remove fat from por- 
tion required only, as fat prevents the stock from spoiling. 



SOUPS 59 

Chicken Consomml with Macaroni 
2 quarts chicken consomm^ ^ cup cooked macaroni cut in rings 

Reheat consomme and add macaroni rings. 

Chicken Consomm€ with Custard 

J cup milk salt, cayenne 

1 slice onion bit of bay leaf 

^ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 egg 
6 cups consommd 

Scald milk with onion and bay leaf. Strain; beat egg 
slightly ; add seasonings and milk. Bake in shallow pan 
until firm. Cool ; remove from pan ; cut in fancy shapes. 
Heat consomme, add custard, and serve. 

White Soup Stock No. i 
1 knuckle veal 1 fowl 

1 onion stuck with 6 cloves J cup carrot 

} cup celery 1 tablespoon salt 

water parsley 

pepper and cayenne 

Break the knuckle of veal in small pieces ; add cut and 
disjointed fowl and water, allowing one quart to each pound 
of meat and bone. Cook three hours, keeping below the 
boiling point. Add remaining ingredients' ; simmer one 
hour ; strain ; cool ; use as needed. 

White Soup Stock No. 2 
6-pound knuckle of veal 4 quarts water 

2 pounds chopped veal J cup onion 

I cup celery 1 teaspoon peppercorns 

2 teaspoons salt 

Break knuckle in pieces ; add chopped veal ; cover with 
water ; let stand one hour. Simmer four hours ; add vege- 
tables; simmer one hour; add seasonings and strain. 

The meat used in this recipe or in white soup stock No. 
1 may be chopped and used for croquettes, souffles, veal 
loaf, or hash, but as it lacks flavor, the dishes must be 
highly seasoned to be palatable. 



60 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

White Soup 

2 cups white stock 1 cup cooked rice 

2 cups cream 2 tablespoons butter 

salt and pepper 2 tablespoons flour 

Make a white sauce of butter, flour and cream. Add 
white stock, cooked rice, seasonings ; reheat, and serve. 

Chicken Stock 
Cook a fowl in cold water to cover ; add seasonings, 
strain, and use for stock. 

Peanut Soup 

2 cups shelled and blanched peanuts 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup onion 2 tablespoons flour 
J cup celery 2 cups milk 

2 cups white stock salt, cayenne, paprika 

Chop peanuts in meat chopper. Cook chopped nuts, 
onion, and celery in white stock twenty minutes. Melt 
butter ; add flour, milk, and seasonings ; cook five min- 
utes. Combine mixtures, strain, and serve. 

Mushroom Soup 

4 cups mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups water 1 cup cream 

4 cups chicken stock salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons butter celery salt 

Clean and chop mushrooms ; cook in water until tender ; 
press through a sieve. Melt butter; add flour, white 
stock ; cook five minutes ; add mushroom mixture, cream, 
and seasonings ; reheat, strain, and serve. 

Chicken Gumbo 

1 chicken cut in pieces 1 quart green okra 

1 cup salt pork cubes 1 tablespoon chopped red pep- 
J cup onion per 

4 quarts water 1 bay leaf, sprig of thyme 

4 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons butter 

salt, pepper, cayenne 1 cup rice cooked 

1 cup cream 1 clove garlic 



SOUPS 61 

Cook salt pork in frying pan five minutes ; add chicken, 
and saut^ a golden brown. Remove chicken; add onion ; 
garlic, okra cut in slices, and saute one half hour. Add 
to chicken and cover with boiling water. Add red pepper, 
seasonings, and cook slowly until chicken is tender. Melt 
butter; add flour and cream; cook five minutes; add 
chicken mixture. Serve garnished with rice. 

Oyster Gumbo 

J cup onion 1 tablespoon chopped red pepper 

J cup butter 1 quart okra 

1 quart oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

4 quarts water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 chicken cut in pieces salt and pepper 

1 cup cooked rice 

Melt butter, add chicken, and saute. Remove chicken ; 

add onion, okra, pepper. Cook ten minutes. Add to 

chicken and cover with boiling water. When chicken 

is tender, add oysters and cook until edges curl. Melt 

butter, add flour, and thicken soup. Serve garnished with 

rice. 

Crab Gumbo 

Prepare same as chicken gumbo, substituting one quart 
crab meat for chicken and using the crab liquor. 

Mulligatawny Soup 

6 cups chicken stock salt, pepper, cayenne 

J cup onion J cup cooked chicken 

2 tablespoons chopped cooked ham 2 cups tomato 

1 tablespoon carrot J cup green apple 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

1 teaspoon curry powder J cup boiled rice 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 lemon sliced 

Melt butter, add vegetables, and cook five minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients, except lemon, and cook one 
half hour. Serve garnished with lemon. 



62 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Green Turtle Soup 

1 can green turtle sprig each of savory, marjoram, 
4 cups brown stock thyme, and sage 

4 cloves, 6 peppercorns 3 tablespoons butter 

bit of bay leaf J cup onion 

blade of mace 3 tablespoons flour 

cayenne 1 teaspoon salt 

1 sliced lemon 2 cups brown stock 

J cup sherry 

Separate the green fat from the rest of the turtle. Cut 
fat in cubes. Cook turtle and herbs in four cups of stock 
one half hour. Melt butter; add onion, flour, salt, cayenne 
and two cups stock ; boil five minutes ; add turtle mix- 
ture ; cook five minutes ; add fat cubes. Pour into tu- 
reen, and garnish with lemon ; , add sherry. Serve. 

Terrapin Soup 

1 can terrapin salt, cayenne 
4 cups white stock blade of mace 
4 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream 

2 egg yolks hard cooked 2 tablespoons flour 

5 cup sheriry 

Cook terrapin, stock and mace twenty minutes. Melt 
butter, add flour, cream and egg yolks ; combine mix- 
tures, add sherry, and garnish with rice balls. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

1 calf's head 2 quarts cold water 

1 teaspoon vinegar 2 tablespoons carrot 

2 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons celery 
2 tablespoons turnip 2 sprigs parsley 

bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons chopped ham 

6 peppercorns 8 tablespoons meat from calf's 

2 tablespoons butter head 

3 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon salt 

3 tablespoons Madeira 2 cups brown stock 

^ lemon, thinly sliced 1 tablespoon mushrooms 



SOUPS 63 

Cover calf's head with cold water. Add vinegar, vege- 
tables and seasonings. Simmer two hoiirs. Remove one 
cupful of meat. Simmer two hours longer. Strain ; 
cool ; remove fat. Brown butter ; add flour and brown ; 
add brown stock, strained liquor, chopped ham, calf's 
head meat, lemon, Madeira and mushrooms. Reheat 
and serve. 

Should it be necessary to keep the soup hot, delay add- 
ing wine until serving. 

Ox-tail Soup 

2 ox-tails 1 sprig parsley 

1 onion stuck with 6 cloves 2 tablespoons carrot 
J cup salt pork fat 2 tablespoons celery 

2 quarts cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

pepper and cayenne 3 tablespoons Madeira wine 

1 cup brown stock 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cut ox-tails at joints, add onion, and saute in pork fat ; 
add cold water, and simmer four hours ; add vegetables 
and seasonings ; simmer one hour. Strain ; cool ; remove 
fat. Brown butter ; add flour and brown ; add strained 
stock, brown stock and meat cut from bones. Reheat, 
add Madeira, and serve. 



CHAPTER III 
FISH 

Foe convenience' sake we divide fish into two classes — 
vertebrate and shellfish. 

The freshness of fish is best determined by the odor. 
If the flesh of the fish is soft and flabby, the fish has been 
frozen, or has been kept too long. 

Fish Fillets 
Fish fillets are the flesh of vertebrate fish separated 
from the bone and cut into large or small pieces. 

Fish Force Meat 
Is the flesh of fish finely chopped and pressed through a 
fine sieve before being cooked. 

Fish Stock 
Is the seasoned liquid in which fish has been cooked. 

Gamishings for Fish 
Parsley, lemon slices, lemon baskets, lemon slices sprin- 
kled with finely chopped parsley, chopped red or green 
pepper, potato balls, olives, hard-cooked eggs, capers, and 
pickles cut lengthwise and spread to resemble a fan ; 
mashed potato and mushrooms, cucumbers and tomatoes ; 
maitre d' hStel butter and water cress. 

Boiled Fish 

a 4-pound cod 2 quarts water 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped carrot bay leaf and clove 

1 sprig parsley J cup vinegar 

64 



FISB 65 

Wash and wipe fish. Cover with boiling water and add 
remaining ingredients ; bring quickly to the boiling point, 
and keep just below the boiling point until fish separates 
slightly in flakes — about thirty minutes. 

A fish kettle is the most convenient receptacle for cook- 
ing fish whole. If one is not available, use a piece of 
cheese cloth just large enough to cover fish and tie loosely 
with string. 

All other boiled fish may be cooked in the same way as 
boiled cod. 

STEAMED FISH 
Steamed Salmon 

Wrap four pounds of salmon in a piece of cheese cloth. 
Set in a plate in a steamer and cook until fish separates 
from bone — from forty -five to sixty minutes, according to 
thickness of fish. 

All other fish may be steamed in the same way. 

BROILED FISH 
Broiled Mackerel 

Wash and wipe fish ; grease a wire broiler with clarified 
butter, lard, or pork fat. Season fish with salt and pepper, 
place on greased broiler and broil over clear fire, turning 
every five seconds. If the fish is a thick one, hold at quite 
a distance from fire until fish is cooked through, then hold 
nearer embers to brown. Separate first, skin side, then 
flesh side, with sharp knife from the broiler. Remove to 
hot platter, garnish, and serve. 

FRIED FISH 

Fried Smelts 

Wash, dry thoroughly, and sprinkle smelts with salt, 
pepper and flour ; dip in beaten egg which has also been 



66 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

seasoned with salt and pepper ; drain and dip in flour, 
meal, or sifted bread crumbs. 

The fish must be completely covered with egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, first testing fat with a crumb 
of bread, which should brown delicately in one minute. 

Smelts may be cooked with their heads on, or the back- 
bone may be removed and the fish rolled up in the shape 
of a muff, or they may be skewered in the shape of a ring. 

When fried, drain on brown paper and serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with lemon baskets filled with mayon- 
naise dressing and parsley. 

Any small fish may be fried in the same way ; large fish 
are generally cut in fillets, prepared and fried in the same 
way. 

BAKED FISH 
Baked Blueflsh 

Stuffing 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon chopped pickles 

1 cup cracker crumbs or dried 1 teaspoon salt, few drops 

breadcrumbs onion Juice 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley i to J cup milk or water 

Melt butter, add remaining ingredients, and stir lightly 
with a fork until heated through. If a dry stuffing is 
preferred, omit liquid. 

Wash and wipe bluefish, stuff, and sew. Cut three 
gashes on either side of fish and insert a slice of salt pork 
in each gash (if desired fancy, pink the edges of the salt 
pork). Season with salt and pepper, brush with melted 
butter, and dredge with flour. Place on a greased fish 
sheet, or on two four-inch- wide pieces of cheese cloth. Set 
in dripping pan, surround with finely chopped pork ; bake, 
allowing fifteen minutes to the pound ; baste with salt pork 
fat. There should be sufficient in the pan ; if not, try out 
an additional quantity of pork. 



FISH 67 

When the fish is browned on one side, it should be 
turned, basted and browned on the other. To avoid this 
turning, many prefer to skewer the fish in the shape of the 
letter S, and place as if swimming in the pan. 

BAKED HADDOCK WITH OYSTER STUFFING 
Oyster Stuffing 
2 cups oysters 1 tablespoon chopped parsley salt 

J cup butter 1 cup cracker crumbs pepper 

Drain oysters; mix crumbs, melted butter and parsley. 
Season highly with salt and pepper. Sprinkle oysters 
with salt and pepper and mix with crumbs. 

Remove head, tail and bone from haddock. Season with 
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Stuff with oyster stuffing 
and sew. Place on fish sheet or strips of cheese cloth in 
baking pan, dot with butter, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Bake, allowing twelve minutes to the pound, 
basting with melted butter, or after fish is stuffed, place 
in pan ; cover with buttered cracker crumbs and baste. 

Remove from pan to hot platter ; garnish with parsley 
and pickles, and serve with tomato, HoUandaise sauce, or 
egg sauce. 

BAKED FILLET OF FISH 

Baked FiUet of Halibut 

2 slices of halibut cut from salt, pepper, lemon juice, melted 

middle of fish butter 

2 cups oyster stuffing 

Wash and wipe fish. Place one slice on a buttered fish 
sheet, brush with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, cover with oyster stuffing. Place second slice on 
top of oysters, season, and brush with butter. Bake forty 
minutes, basting frequently with melted butter, turning 
pan often in order that the fish may be uniformly browned. 

Remove to hot platter; garnish with potato balls, pars- 
ley, and lemon; HoUandaise, tomato, or Bechamel sauce. 



68 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

SAUTED FISH 

Saut6d Trout 

6 medium-sized trout cornmeal, salt and pepper 

olive oil or melted butter 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

Wash and wipe fish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in olive oil, roll in cornmeal, and saute until brown, 
and crisp in butter or lard. Drain on brown paper. Serve 
on hot platter, and garnish with lemon and cress. All 
kinds of small fish may be cooked in the same manner. 

Deviled Fillets of Fish 

6 fish fillets 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 teaspoon mustard \ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice \ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon hot water J cup cracker crumbs seasoned 

Mix mustard, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt and 
paprika. Wipe and broil the fish, spread with mustard 
mixture, roll in crumbs, and broil until crumbs are brown. 
Serve hot, with sauce tartare or tomato tartare. 

Fried Fillet of Sole 

6 fillets of sole 2 teaspoons butter 

4 anchovies boned and skinned \ teaspoon mustard 

2 teaspoons lemon juice salt, cayenne pepper 

Prepare the fillets, sprinkle with salt and pepper; spread 
with remaining ingredients blended. Roll fillets, dip in 
crumbs, Qgg and crumb, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. Serve on a napkin and garnish with lemon 
and water cress. 

Fillets prepared in this way may also be baked in the 
oven with white wine, and served garnished with French 
fried potatoes and parsley. 



FISH 69 

Planked Shad 

1 shad with backbone removed 2 tablespoons finely chopped pars- 

4 tablespoons butter ley 

few drops onion juice 2 tablespoons tomato catsup or 

1 tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons white wine. 

few grains cayenne 

Wipe shad; place skin side down on oak plank. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; spread with butter. Cook in hot 
oven twenty to thirty minutes. Brown with a salamander. 
Spread with parsley and catsup or white wine. Garnish 
with highly seasoned hot mashed potato pressed through 
a pastry bag and tube. Also radishes cut in shape of 
roses, lemons cut in shape of crescents and dipped in 
chopped parsley, and sprigs of parsley. 

Fried Whitebait 

2 pounds whitebait flour 

salt, pepper lemon slices 

Dry whitebait in towel ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
dredge napkin with flour. Shake whitebait in napkin until 
each little fish is covered with flour. Dip frying basket 
in hot fat ; cover bottom of frying basket with floured 
whitebait ; plunge into hot fat ; fry until a golden brown ; 
drain on brown paper. Serve on napkin. Garnish with 
lemon and parsley. Brown bread is served with these fish. 

SHELLFISH 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 quart oysters 2 tablespoons parsley 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 2 tablespoons celery 

1 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoon paprika 

I cup butter 1 cup cream 

J cup wine 

Clean oysters. Butter a baking dish ; arrange a layer 
of oysters in the bottom of the dish. Mix butter and 



70 lowney's cook book 

bread crumbs ; sprinkle oysters with crumbs, parsley, celery, 
paprika, salt and two tablespoons of cream. Continue 
arranging in layers until dish is filled, having crumbs for 
the last layer. Just before baking, add wine and bake 
twenty minutes. Oysters are best baked in a shallow 
dish so as to have two layers of oysters only. 

Oyster Stew 

1 quart oysters 4 tablespoons butter 

1 quart milk salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

Drain oysters from liquor ; heat liquor to boiling point. 
Skim. Scald milk in double boiler ; add liquor and oys- 
ters ; cook until edges of the oysters shrivel ; add butter, 
salt and pepper. Serve at once. 

If cracker crumbs are used, combine butter and cracker 
crumbs and add to oyster mixture. 

Oysters and oyster liquor must not be added to milk 
until just before serving, as the mixture is apt to curdle if 
the oysters are allowed to stand in the milk. 

Spindled Oysters 

1 quart oysters salt, pepper 

12 slices bacon 6 squares buttered toast 

Drain oysters from their liquor and dry between towels. 
Cut the bacon in pieces half the size of the oysters. Ar- 
range the oysters and bacon in alternate layers on wooden 
skewers, being careful to pierce the hard muscle. Place 
in a hot pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is done. 
Ten minutes should suffice. 

Serve one skewerful on each slice of buttered toast. 
Many persons like the liquor of the oysters heated, 
strained, and poured over the toast just before serving. 



FISH 71 

Broiled Oysters 
Look over oysters, reject shells, and dry oysters between 
towels. Dip in melted butter or olive oil seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Heat broiler; grease; arrange oysters on 
broiler ; broil over a clear fire four to six minutes, turning 
often. Serve on squares or rounds of toasted bread spread 
with butter and slightly moistened with oyster liquor. Gar- 
nish with a sprig of parsley and one quarter slice of lemon. 

Panned Oysters 
Melt two tablespoons of butter in hot frying pan, add 
one pint of cleaned and drained oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and cook in hot oven until edges shrivel. 
Serve on hot buttered squares of toast with strained liquor 
from oysters. Garnish with finely chopped parsley. 

Sauted Oysters 
Pick over, drain, and dry oysters ; dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumb, season with salt and pepper. Melt one 
tablespoon each of lard and butter in frying pan. When 
hissing hot, cover bottom of pan with prepared oysters and 
saute until a golden brown on both sides. Drain on 
brown paper ; reheat in oven if necessary. Serve on hot 
platter and garnish with parsley, lemon and sauce tartare. 

Fried Oysters 
Fried oysters are prepared same as Sauted Oysters 
except they are fried in deep fat. 

Supreme Oysters 

1 pint oysters i cup chicken stock 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup oyster liquor 

2 tablespoons onion i salt, cayenne, nutmeg 

4 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

I cup cream parsley 

J cup finely cut chicken 



72 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Melt butter ; add onion; when yellow, add flour; when 
well blended, add liquids and seasonings. Cook five 
minutes ; add chicken, yolks of eggs beaten until thick, 
cream beaten until stiff. When thick, cool. Parboil 
oysters ; drain and dry. Cover oysters with chicken mix- 
ture, dip in crumbs, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. 
Drain. Serve on hot dish and garnish with lemon and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Clams 

Clams may be cooked and served in aU ways like 
oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells ; place in kettle ; add water, 
allowing one half cup of water for each peck of clams. 
Cover kettle and cook until shells open. Serve hot with 
melted butter. 

Kettle should be removed from the range as soon as 
shells open, otherwise clams will be overcooked. 

Clam Fritters 

2 egg yolks well beaten | cup flour 

\ cup milk salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 tablespoon olive oil 2 egg whites stiffly beaten 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Combine ingredients in order given; let stand ten min- 
utes. Remove clams from shell, cut off heads, cover with 
batter, and fry until golden brown in hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper. As clams contain so much water, only a 
few should be put into the fat at once. 

Oysters in batter may be prepared in the same way as 
Clam Fritters. 

Fried Scallops 

1 quart scallops flour 

salt and pepper, 1 egg crumbs 



FISH 73 

Wash, drain, and parboil scallops. Season; dip in flour, 
egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve 
with sauce tartare. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 

Fried Scallops in Batter 
Parboil scallops, and proceed as with Clam Fritters. 

Scalloped Scallops 

1 pint scallops 4 tablespoons flour 

1 cup mushrooms, chopped 1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons onion J cup scallop liquor 
4 tablespoons butter salt, pepper, cayenne 

Parboil scallops. Drain and cut in slices. Melt butter; 
add onion and mushrooms, cook five minutes; add scallops, 
cook five minutes ; add liquids, cook until thick. 

Place mixture in buttered baking dish or scallop shells; 
dot with butter; cover with buttered and seasoned crumbs; 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

Lobster 

To open a lobster : wipe lobster, break or sever small 
and large claws from the body. Separate tail from body 
portion by twisting and pulling at the same time. Re- 
move meat from body portion carefully, picking edible 
portion from small bones. Reserve liver and coral if 
there be any; discard stomach, or "lady." Meat from the 
body of the lobster is the sweetest and tenderest, but is 
often thrown away because of the difficulty in removing it. 

Break the large claws, or if the shell is tender, cut with 
scissors and remove meat whole. 

Crush the tail shell and remove the meat in one piece. 
Cut entire length of the tail meat and remove the intes- 
tinal canal. 

The small claws are attractive for garnishing, and 
should be reserved. 



74 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Creamed Lobster 

1 pint lobster meat salt, pepper, cayenne 

4 tablespoons butter 2 cups cream 

4 tablespoons flour 1 red pepper cut in ribbons 

parsley 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Make a white sauce of butter, flour, seasonings and 
cream. Parboil red pepper, add to sauce with lobster 
meat, reheat, and serve on rounds of buttered toast. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Use recipe for Creamed Lobster and bake in lobster 
shell, scallop shells, ramekins, or baking dishes, covered 
with buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs. Garnish 
with small lobster claws and parsley. 

Deviled Lobster 

Prepared same as Creamed Lobster, with addition of one 
teaspoon each of onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, mus- 
tard, few grains of cayenne and a few drops of Tabasco. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs may be creamed, scalloped, or 
deviled, like lobster, garnished and served in the same 
way. 

Crabs in Red Peppers 

8 red peppers 1 tablespoon onion 

1 pint crab meat salt, pepper, paprika 

4 tablespoons butter mustard, cayenne, nutmeg 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup cream 

Parboil red peppers. Make a white sauce with butter, 
flour, cream and seasonings. Add crab meat, fill peppers 
with crab mixture, cover with buttered and seasoned soft 
bread crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 



FISH 75 

Broiled Live Lobster 

Select a heavy lobster. Cut with a quick, sharp thrust 
the whole length of the body from the mouth down. 
Remove the stomach and intestinal canal; reserve the liver 
or tomalley and coral, if there is any. Crack large claws 
and place on greased broiler, inserting skewers between 
the sides of the lobster to keep it open. Place in oven 
for twenty minutes, then broil over hot coals about five 
minutes. Serve immediately, plain or with deviled sauce. 

Curried Lobster 

a 4-pound lobster 1 cup cream 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup stock 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 tablespoon curry 
4 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 

2 cups cooked rice salt, paprika 

Melt butter ; add onion ; cook until yellow ; add flour, 
curry, liquid; cook until thickened; add eggs, salt and 
pepper, and coral, if you have it; strain over lobster meat. 

Serve on a bed of rice garnished with parsley. 

Lobster Supreme 

Prepare the sauce as for Supreme Oysters, substituting 
two cups of chopped lobster for oysters. 

Lobster in Red Peppers 

Prepared same as Crabs in Red Peppers, substituting 
one pint lobster meat for crab meat. 

Fried Soft-shell Crabs 

Prepare crabs by removing sand bags. Raise apron; cut 
from crab ; remove spongy substance surrounding apron. 
Wipe ; season with salt and pepper ; dip in crumbs ; egg 
and crumb; fry in hot fat about three minutes. Serve 
immediately with tartare sauce. 



CHAPTER IV 
MEATS 

Meat is expensive ; therefore every housekeeper should 
inform herself in regard to the different cuts in different 
creatures, and the prices for these cuts. 

Various methods are employed in cooking meats ; but 
this fact should be remembered, that all meat should be 
subjected to a high temperature for a short time, in order 
to sear the surface and shut in the juices, whatever 
method of cooking is used. 

Tough meats should have long, slow cooking. 

Dry meats, like the fillet, should be larded to give 
flavor. 

As a rule, dark meats are more palatable and digestible 
if cooked rare, and white meats are considered better if 
thoroughly cooked. 

Remove all meats from paper as soon as sent from the 
market. Set on plate and keep in ice chest or cool place 
until ready to use. 

Never put meat in cold water, but always wipe with a 
damp cloth to remove any foreign matter, before cooking. 

A description of the various meats will be found in the 
chapter on Marketing. 

BEEF 
Boiled Beef 

The flank is one of the best pieces for boiling. 
Select a five-pound piece ; wipe ; remove membrane, 
shape, stuff, tie, and skewer. Cover with cloth ; place in 

76 



MEATS 77 

kettle ; cover with boiling water ; bring to the boiling 
point, and cook just below the boiling point, five or six 
hours, or until tender. Simmered beef would be a more 
correct term than boiled beef, but it is ordinarily known 
as boiled beef. 

Season with salt one half hour before serving. Reserve 
liquor for making gravies and soups. 

Boiled beef should have a rich, highly seasoned gravy 

served with it. 

Braised Beef 

An iron, or agate-ware kettle, with closely fitting cover, 
is absolutely necessary for perfectly cooking braised beef. 

Select six pounds of round of beef, or any tough, 
inexpensive piece. Try out one cup salt pork cubes ; add 
one cup each of chopped celery, carrot, onion and turnip. 
Wipe meat; sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. Place meat on bed of vegetables and cook in 
covered kettle twenty minutes ; add two pints hot water 
and cook slowly until tender, about four hours, turning 
meat and basting occasionally. It may be necessary to 
add more water, for there should be about a pint and a 
half when meat is cooked. Thicken gravy with four 
tablespoons flour, blended with two tablespoons butter, 
added twenty minutes before serving. A bouquet of sweet 
herbs may be added to improve the flavor. 

FiUet of Beef 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four 
pounds, removing tendinous portions and veins. Tie 
and skewer into a pear-shaped piece. Lard top ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Cover the 
bottom of a small dripping pan with cubes of salt pork. 
Set trivet on top of pork, and meat on trivet. Bake 



78 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

from twenty to thirty minutes in hot oven, basting fre- 
quently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour and hot 
water. Same as recipe for brown gravy, under Roast Beef. 

Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in 
circles. Place on greased broiler and broil over hot coals 
from four to six minutes, turning every ten seconds. 
Serve on hot platter ; garnish with slices of broiled tomato 
and brown mushroom sauce. 

Broiled Fillets of Beef with Oysters 
Broil steak according to recipe ; place on hot platter ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; cover with oysters ; dot 
with butter ; and bake in oven until edges of oysters curl. 
Serve immediately, garnished with parsley and lemon. 

Saut6d Fillet of Beef 

Saute steak two minutes. Mix two tablespoons Worces- 
tershire sauce, one half teaspoon salt, one quarter tea- 
spoon mustard, one tablespoon melted butter, and one 
tablespoon chopped pimolas. Spread on both sides of 
steak, dip in bread crumbs, and saute until crumbs are 

brown. 

Corned Beef 

Wash beef; place in kettle; cover with cold water; bring 
to the boiling point, then simmer until tender; allow thirty- 
five minutes for each pound. Cool partially in water in 
■which it was cooked; place in square pan; apply pressure 

and serve cold. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Chop beef; add an equal amount of cold boiled potatoes, 

chopped; season with salt, pepper and a few drops of onion 

juice. 



MEATS 79 

Melt one tablespoon butter in an iron frying pan ; add 
beef and potatoes and sufficient milk or hot water to make 
the mixture quite soft. Cover frying pan and cook 
slowly until a brown crust is formed. Turn like an 
omelet on to a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

Roast Beef 

Pieces used for roasting are sirloin, rib, back of the 
rump, face of the rump and upper round. 

Eight to ten minutes a pound should be allowed for 
cooking the meat moderately rare. 

Wipe the meat; place on rack in dripping pan; dredge 
meat and pan well with flour, then sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper. 

Cook in hot oven for fifteen minutes, until flour is well 
browned. Reduce heat and continue roasting, basting 
every ten minutes until cooked. 

Baste with fat tried out from the meat. If that is not 
sufficient, add beef suet, beef drippings, or butter. 

Avoid the use of water in the pan, as by its use the 
meat is steamed rather than roasted. 

Serve with brown gravy, made by browning four table- 
spoons of fat from the pan, adding four tablespoons flour. 
When brown, add one and one half cups water or beef 

stock. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

2 cups milk J teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 4 eggs 

Beat eggs; add flour and salt, gradually; continue beat- 
ing. Add milk and continue beating five minutes. The 
mixture should be perfectly smooth. One half hour be- 
fore meat is done, pour this mixture into dripping pan 
under meat and baste when basting meat, turning pan 
that pudding may be golden brown throughout. 



80 lowney's cook book 

Yorkshire pudding cooked in this way is considered by 
many to be too rich. A very good substitute is obtained 
by cooking in hissing hot gem pans, thirty minutes. 

Serve pudding, cut in squares, on platter around beef. 

Spiced Beef 

Wash and wipe six pounds of any inexpensive piece of 
beef; cover with boiling water; bring to the boiling point, 
then simmer until meat is tender, adding, the last hour of 
cooking, one cup each of carrot and onion, a bouquet of 
sweet herbs tied in a bag, pepper, and one half tablespoon 
salt. Remove meat and reduce liquid to one and one half 
cups. 

Shred meat, add liquid, and press in bread pan, packing 
closely. When cold serve in thin slices. 

Stewed Beef 
Cut beef taken from the round in small squares; cover 
with boiling water, and simmer until meat is tender, four 
or six hours. Season with salt and pepper one hour be- 
fore serving. Remove meat and thicken liquid, allowing 
one and one half tablespoons of flour for each pint of 

liquid. 

Pot Roast 

Wipe a six-pound piece of beef; put into hot frying pan, 
and sear until brown; then lard the upper surface. Place 
in tightly covered kettle or bean pot; add one cup of 
water. Cook slowly in oven until meat is tender, keep- 
ing only enough water in kettle to prevent burning. 
When nearly done, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve 
with a brown gravy made with water in the pan. 

Beef Ragout 

Wipe three pounds from the flank or round. Cut into 
small cubes; dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Brown 
meat in hot frying pan, being careful to avoid burning. 



MEATS 81 

Remove meat to kettle with close-fitting cover. Brown 
four tablespoons butter; add four tablespoons flour, and 
continue browning; add one and one half cups stock or 
water, one half cup each of carrot and onion; season with 
salt and pepper and simmer one and one half hours. 

Broiled Beefsteak 

Use a slice cut from the rump, round, or sirloin, cut one 
and one half inches to two and a half inches thick. Wipe 
meat; place on hot broiler, and broil over a clear fire from 
five to ten minutes, turning every ten seconds. Serve on 
a hot platter, spread with butter, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

If there is a large amount of fat on the steak, be sure it 
is well browned before serving. 

Beefsteak smothered in Onions 

1 dozen small onions salt 

1 slice porterhouse steak, cut thick pepper 

Heat a frying pan hissing hot. Put in beefsteak, sear- 
ing first on one side, then on the other; cook five minutes; 
season with salt and pepper; add onions which have been 
cooked one half hour in boiling salted water. Cover and 
simmer twenty or thirty minutes. 

Remove steak to platter, spread with butter, and season 
with salt and pepper. Season onions with salt, pepper 
and butter, and serve around steak. 

Hamburg Steak a la Tartare 

1 pound round steak J cup chopped onion 

2 ounces beef suet J cup bread crumbs 

salt and pepper 

Put meat and suet through meat chopper; add finely 
chopped onion, and season with salt and pepper. Shape 



82 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

in balls; roll in crumbs; and broil over a clear fire, or pan- 
broil. Serve on hot platter with brown gravy, tomato 
sauce, or Spanish sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

VEAL 
Roast Veal 

Six pounds of veal taken from the leg, from the loin, or 
from the breast. 

Skewer meat into shape ; dredge with flour, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cover top with slices of salt pork. 
Allow twenty minutes to the pound, bake in a hot oven, 
and baste every ten minutes with fat from the pan. If 
there is not sufficient fat in the pan, try out some pork on 
top of the stove and use that for basting. 

Remove pork slices from top of meat one half hour be- 
fore it is done, and brown. 

A gravy may be made from the fat in the pan, same as 
Brown Gravy. 

Roast Veal Stuffed 

Select a shoulder of veal and have the bone removed; 
stuff with same stuffing used for Baked Fish, adding one 
cup chopped mushrooms. Sew up stuffed meat and roast 
same as Roast Veal. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut meat in small pieces, saute in melted butter. 
Cover meat with boiling water and cook slowly until 
meat is tender. 

Melt four tablespoons butter or pork fat. When brown, 
add one fourth cup fiour browned, and four cups of water 
in which veal was cooked. Season with salt, pepper, 
onion juice and lemon juice. 

Just before serving add one fourth cup cream, or two 
tablespoons butter. 



MEATS 83 

Serve veal in center of hot platter and surround with 
hot sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Dumplings may be served with this fricassee, in which 
case it is ordinarily called a stew. 

Veal Cutlets 

Choose only the tenderest of veal for cutlets. Cut meat 
from leg, shape either in individual cutlets or one large 
cutlet. Cover veal with oil and let it stand one hour. 
Drain ; cover with boiling water and simmer until tender, 
having only suificient water in stewpan to keep cutlets 
from burning. Remove from stewpan ; cool ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, dip in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork fat or fry in deep fat. 

Serve on hot platter with brown sauce, tomato sauce 
or mushroom sauce. 

Loin of Veal a la Jardiniere 

a 6-pound loin of veal 1 cauliflower 

1 cup salt pork cubes 1 cup onion 

1 cup potatoes 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup carrots 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups green peas salt, pepper and lemon juice 

Remove the bone from veal; wipe meat, and season with 
salt and pepper. Roll and tie in shape. 

Cook bones in water to cover, one hour. Melt butter; 
add vegetables, except potatoes, peas and cauliflower; cook 
five minutes. Try out salt pork ; add veal, and brown. 

Place veal in dripping pan; surround with pork fat, 
onion and carrot, and cook three hours. To the melted 
butter add flour. When well blended, add water in 
which bones were cooked. 

Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Cook cauli- 
flower, peas and potatoes separately in boiling salted 



84 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

water. Place cooked meat in center of platter, pour over 
sauce, and arrange vegetables in mounds around the meat. 

Braised Veal 

Use rule for Braised Beef, substituting six pounds of 

the shoulder of veal. 

Veal Chops 

Wipe chops taken from the rack of veal ; make an inci- 
sion, and put in a few drops of onion juice, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. Dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and saute 
in pork fat until tender. Serve on hot platter with 
tomato sauce and parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Boiled Mutton 

Trim off the outside fat from a fore quarter or loin. 
Place in kettle ; cover with boiling water and cook until 
tender, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Serve 
with caper sauce made from the water in which mutton 
was boiled. Reserve the remainder of the water for soup 
for next day. 

Roast Mutton 

The leg, loin, saddle and shoulder are used for roasting. 

Allow twelve minutes to the pound, if liked rare, fifteen 
if desired well done, basting every ten minutes. 

To roast a leg of mutton, first remove the pink outer 
skin, as this contains the strong flavor. Never roast with 
the caul left on. The bone from the leg may be re- 
moved and the cavity stuffed and edges sewed ; or the leg 
may be roasted without removing bone. In either case 
wipe meat, dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and place on rack in dripping pan. Dredge pan with 
flour, and if the mutton flavor is desired, place pieces of 
mutton fat in the pan, or salt pork may be substituted. 



MEATS 85 

Braised Mutton 
Remove the bone from the leg or fore quarter. Stuff 
and follow rule for Braised Beef. 

Ragout of Mutton 
Use breast of fore quarter of mutton, or cold cooked 
mutton, and follow recipe for Beef Ragoiit. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 

The saddle is what the name implies — the back. In 
large pieces the tail is included. 

Wipe meat ; remove pink skin, kidneys, and fat. Fold 
flanks inside and tie in shape. Place on rack ; dredge 
meat and pan with flour, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per. Cook in hot oven ; allow ten minutes to the pound 
basting frequently. 

Serve with currant jelly sauce. 

Crown Roast 

Or Rack of Mutton. Prepare the loin as for French 
chops and arrange like a crown, rolling the loin back- 
ward. Tie securely. Cover each chop bone with thin 
strip of salt pork to prevent burning. Place on rack in 
dripping pan with a bowl in center of the crown to 
preserve its shape. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, basting frequently, and allowing nine minutes 
to the pound for roasting. 

Serve on hot platter, with potato balls, green peas, 

French fried potatoes, or puree of chestnuts in center of 

crown. Paper frills on chop bones and parsley around 

the base. 

Breaded Lamb or Mutton Chops 

Prepare loin or French chops as for broiling. Dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve. 



86 lowney's cook book 

Stuffed Lamb or Mutton Chop, with Spanish Sauce 

Prepare French chops. Cut through meat to the bone, 
making a pocket ; fill pocket with mushroom mixture ; 
close with skewer ; and broil. 

Mushroom Mixture 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons flour, 
one tablespoon finely chopped onion, one half cup chopped 
mushrooms, one teaspoon salt, and cream to make of con- 
sistency to shape. This is sufficient to stuff eight chops. 

Lamb Chops with Soubise Sauce 

Prepare eight French chops. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, spread with soubise sauce, and broil. 

Soubise Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons flour, 
one half teaspoon salt, three small onions which have been 
boiled and pressed through a sieve, a dash of cayenne, and 
sufficient cream to make of consistency to spread. 

Baked Chops Soubise 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops with Soubise sauce ; dip in 
buttered crumbs : wrap in buttered paper cases. Bake 
thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve with tomato or olive 
sauce. 

Lamb or Mutton Chops 

Wipe chops, shape, place on broiler, and cook over a 
clear fire, turning every ten seconds, allowing eight min- 
utes for chops cut one inch thick. 

Serve on hot platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and spread with butter. 

Arrange chops in circle, overlapping each other, of 
around a mound of vegetables. 



MEATS 87 

Broiled French Chops 

Laiinb or mutton chops trimmed of superfluous fat, the 
bones scraped and cut uniformly, are called French Chops. 
Broil like Lamb or Mutton Chops. 

Broiled Loin Chops 

Trim loin chops, skewer in rounds, and proceed as with 
Broiled French Chops. 

Pan-broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Heat frying pan hissing 
hot; place chops in pan. Do not grease pan. Sear one 
side and then the other, and continue turning every ten 
seconds, for five minutes if liked rare, and eight minutes 
if liked well done. 

PORK 
Roast Pork 

Select sparerib, loin, or shoulder for roasting. Wipe 
meat; place on pan; dredge meat and pan with flour. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Bake in a moderate oven, allowing twenty-five minutes 
to the pound. 

Serve with cooked apples in some form — apple sauce, 
apple jelly, or fried apples. 

Roast Little Pig 

Clean, wipe, and stuff a three-weeks-old pig. Skewer 
into shape; place on rack in pan; rub with butter, dredge 
with flour, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Place in moderate oven; when heated through increase 
heat, baste every ten minutes with melted butter, turning 
©ften to cook and brown uniformly. 

Cook from three to four hours, according to size of pig. 



88 lownet's cook book 

Serve on hot platter on a bed of parsley. Garnish with 
apple sauce in red apple shells, lemon and parsley. 

Broiled Pork Chops 

For broiling, chops should be cut very thin and broiled 
at least fifteen minutes, holding the broiler some distance 
from coals, to avoid burning. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Pork Chops and cook in hot oven 
twenty minutes, turning when half cooked. 

Sautid Pork Chops 

Cook chops in hissing hot frying pan in small amount 
of fat. Drain and serve. 

Broiled Ham 

Cut ham very thin, cover with cold water, heat slowly 
to the boiling point. Drain, dry, and broil. 

Boiled Ham 

Select a medium-sized ham; soak over night in cold 
water. Clean and wipe; cover with cold water; bring to 
the boiling point, and then simmer until tender, allowing 
thirty minutes to the pound. Cool in water in which it 
was cooked. Take off the skin, sprinkle with sugar, and 
cover with seasoned cracker crumbs. Bake twenty to 
thirty minutes. Decorate with cloves, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve hot or cold. 

A more aromatic flavor is given to the ham if a bouquet 
of sweet herbs and one half cup each of onions, carrots, 
and turnips are boiled with it. Many baste the ham, 
when baking, with cider. 



^ MEATS 89 

Broiled Bacon 

Lay thin slices of bacon on a hissing hot frying pan. 
When transparent, turn. When dry and crisp, drain and 
dry on brown paper. 

Bacon cooked in the Oven 

Place thin slices on broiler and cook over dripping pan 

in hot oven. This method requires more time, but is much 

more wholesome. 

Sausages 

Buy the best. Pierce several times with skewer. Cook 
in hot frying pan in hot oven, fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Many prefer to cover sausages with boiling water after 
piercing and boil twenty minutes, then brown in frying 
pan on top of range. Always drain on brown paper 
before serving. Serve around a mound of mashed browned 
potatoes. 

POULTRY 
Boiled Chicken 

Clean, stuff, truss, and wrap chicken in cheese cloth; 
cover with boiling water, and cook until tender, below 
the boiling point. Serve on hot platter, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and garnish with oyster sauce. 

Allow twenty minutes to the pound for cooking. 

Braised Chicken 

Braised chicken is generally a fowl. ' 

Wipe, stuff, sew, skewer, and place on rack in kettle 
with tight-fitting cover. 

Place six slices of salt pork on bottom of kettle, add 
one fourth cup each, carrot, onion, turnip, and celery, bit 
of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, one teaspoon peppercorns, 
two teaspoons salt, and three cups boiling water. 

Cover kettle, and cook in oven three to four hours, 



90 LOWNET'8 COOK BOOK 

always keeping enough water in kettle to prevent vegeta- 
bles from burning. When tender, brush over with melted 
butter, dredge with flour, and brown in oven. 

Serve with gravy and vegetables pressed through sieve. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Broiled Chicken 

Clean wipe, and split down the back, a young chicken. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper; place on greased broiler, 
and cook over dripping pan in hot oven over twenty 
minutes. Remove from oven, and broil over clear fire 
until golden brown. Remove from broiler, spread with 
melted butter, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve 
on hot platter on bed of water cress. 

Sautid Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Dip in water, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Try 
out two tablespoons salt pork cubes. Cover bottom of 
frying pan with pieces of chicken. Cook until a delicate 
brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. 
Drain on brown paper. 

Take three tablespoons of fat from the pan, brown, add 
three tablespoons flour and brown, add one fourth tea- 
spoon each of salt, nutmeg, and paprika, and a cup and 
a quarter of cream. Cook five minutes, pour around 
chicken, and garnish with parsley and toast points. 

Fried Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving ; dip in milk, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in flour or in crumbs, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper; 
serve on slices of buttered toast with Bechamel sauce, 
AUemande, or Mushroom sauce. 



MEATS 91 

Baltimore Chicken 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dip in egg, and crumbs taken froni the center 
of the loaf ; arrange in baking dish, baste with melted 
butter, and cook in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

Arrange on a hot platter ; garnish with thin slices of 
crisp bacon, parsley and cream sauce. 

Chicken fried in Batter 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving, cover with fritter 
batter, and cook in deep fat. Drain on brown paper. In 
order that chicken in batter be cooked sufficiently, the 
bird must be young and tender. 

Cold chicken meat may be dipped in the same batter 
and fried. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut a chicken in pieces for serving; season with salt 
and pepper. Melt four tablespoons butter, add one fourth 
cup finely chopped onion, chicken, and saute until golden 
brown. Remove chicken ; add four tablespoons flour, tw^ 
cups chicken stock, two cups stewed tomato, one red pep- 
per finely chopped, one half cup celery, and salt to taste. 
Replace chicken in sauce, and simmer until tender. 

Arrange on dish ; surround with sauce ; garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving, season with salt and 
pepper, brown in butter or pork fat. When golden brown 
cover with boiling water ; add six cloves, a bit of bay leaf, 
a sprig of parsley, and simmer until tender. 

Melt four tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons flour, 
two and one half cups water in which chicken was cooked. 
Cook ten minutes ; add one cup cream or two egg yolks. 



92 lOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Arrange chicken on platter, pour sauce around, and gar- 
nish with toast and parsley. 

If a brown sauce is preferred, brown the butter and 
brown the flour, adding one more tablespoon. 

Chicken Pie 

Cut a chicken in pieces for serving. Melt four table- 
spoons butter or use the same quantity of pork fat. Add 
one fourth cup onion, a sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, 
four cloves, and one tablespoon salt. 

Put in chicken and cover with boiling water ; cook until 
tender. Arrange chicken in baking dish ; cover with 
strained and thickened stock. Cover whole dish with 
mashed potato or pastry crust. Bake until potato is 
brown or crust is done. 

Old-fashioned English Chicken Pie 

Cover chicken, cut in pieces for serving, with boiling 
water, add two sprigs of thyme, one sprig of marjoram, bit 
of bay leaf, two sprigs parsley, tied in a bag. Simmer 
gently until tender. 

One half hour before chicken is done, add one half pound 
bacon cut in small pieces. 

Arrange on the bottom of baking dish, slices of hard- 
cooked eggs, cover with sauted mushrooms, then a layer 
of chicken meat, and continue until dish is filled. Add 
three cups of sauce made from the liquor in the pan and 
thickened with two tablespoons butter and four table- 
spoons flour cooked together ; reheat in oven, and garnish 
with pastry points cut in the shape of triangles, and pars- 
ley, and serve. 

Roast Boned Chicken 

Bone according to direction for boning chicken. Stuff 
until plump with force meat, sew, press body into natural 



MEATS 93 

shape, truss, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and follow directions for Roast Chicken, allowing 
twenty minutes for each pound. 

Roast Chicken 

Remove pinfeathers, singe, take out tendons, draw skin 
back from neck, cut off neck close to body, cut out oil bag. 
Make an incision between the legs, running from the 
breastbone down, and through this opening draw the 
entrails. 

If care is taken, all of the internal organs can be re- 
moved at once by separating the membrane inclosing the 
organs, from the body. 

Draw windpipe and crop through the neck opening. 
Never make an incision in the breast. 

"Wash inside of bird with cloth wrung out of cold water, 
removing all clots of blood. Wipe, stuff, sew up openings, 
truss, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, 
place on rack in dripping pan, and cook fifteen minutes in 
very hot oven. Then dredge pan with flour, reduce heat, 
and baste every ten minutes until chicken is done, turning 
often. 

Allow fifteen minutes to the pound for roasting. 

Roast Capon 
Prepare the same as Roast Chicken, allowing twelve 
minutes to the pound for roasting. 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

2 cups soft bread crumbs few drops onion juice 

I cup melted butter salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon poultry seasoning 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a moist stuffing is 
desired, add hot water until of the right consistency ; but 



94 LOWNEY'8 COOK BOOK 

many prefer a dry stuffing. For a stronger flavor of 
onion, cook one tablespoon choppeji onion in butter and 
add to crumbs. 

Chestnut Stuffing 

Press meat from one quart boiled chestnuts through 
puree sieve. Moisten with butter, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

Oyster Stuffing 

2 cups cvaeker crumbs 1 tablespoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 pint oysters 1 tablespoon chopped celery 

J cup butter \ cup boiling water or hot milk 

Parboil oysters, dip in melted butter, add remaining 
ingredients, and use for stuffing chicken, turkey, or goose. 

Potato Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning 
\ cup salt pork cubes salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons onion 1 cup cooked sausages cut in pieces 

Cook the onion and the pork until yellow; add remain- 
ing ingredients. Use for stuffing chicken, turkey, and 
goose. 

Roast Green Goose 

A green goose should never be more than four months 
old. Dress same as chicken. If strong, wash out with 
soapsuds and carefully rinse iu several waters. 

Stuff, truss, sew, flatten the breastbone, and roast the 
same as chicken. Allow eighteen minutes to the pound 
for roasting. 

If the goose is more than four months old, it is better 
to braise than roast it. But if roasted, allow twenty-five 
minutes to the pound. 



MEATS 95 

Roast Tame Duck 

Prepare same as chicken; stuff with chopped celery. 
Allow ten minutes to the pound for duckling and twenty 
for an old duck. 

Roast Turkey 

Dress, clean, and stuff turkey and follow directions for 
Roast Chicken. Some prefer to rub the surface of the 
turkey with butter and flour creamed together instead of 
dredging with flour. 

English Roast Turkey 

Stuffing 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add one tablespoon chopped 
onion, three cups soft bread crumbs, chopped liver and 
heart, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon poultry seasoning, 
one tablespoon chopped pickles, and one quarter teaspooiT' 
pepper. 

Prepare turkey for roasting; stuff, sew, truss. Bake in 
hot oven, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste 
frequently. Dredge and season twice during cooking. 

Boned Turkey 

Boned Turkey is prepared in the same way as Boned 
Chicken. 

GAME 

WILD DUCK 

Roasted Canvasback or Redhead 

The heads of wild duck are usually left on when cooked. 
Make a slit in front of the wishbone. Clean tlie bird; 
remove entrails, crop and windpipe ; draw the head 
through the neck opening. Truss, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper inside and outside. Bake in a very hot oven 



96 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

eighteen to twenty minutes, basting with hot water during 
cooking. If the strong flavor of wild duck is objection- 
able, cook an onion or an apple in the cavity, removing it 
before serving. 

Serve with the wild duck, fried crescents of rice or 
hominy and currant jelly. 

Ruddy Duck, Butterballs, Bluebills, Broadbills, Teals, 
Coot, Grouse, Partridge, Prairie Chicken, Quail, Wood- 
cock, Reedbirds and Pheasants are roasted in the same 
way as Wild Duck, or are broiled the same as Broiled 
Chicken. The small birds are usually served on pieces of 
buttered toast and garnished with water cress, parsley, 
and a highly seasoned sauce. 

Roast Venison 

Lard a saddle of venison, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour. Place in dripping pan and baste with 
melted butter. Allow ten minutes to the pound for roast- 
ing. Serve with Madeira or Currant Jelly sauce. 

Venison Steak or Chops 

Broiled or pan-broiled same as beefsteak or lamb chops, 
and serve with some acid sauce. 



CHAPTER V 



VEGETABLES 



All green vegetables should be washed in cold water 
and cooked in boiling water. Salt may be added first or 
last according to preference. Allow one tablespoon salt 
to each quart of water. 

The time required for cooking depends upon the age 
and freshness of the vegetables. 



Artichokes . 
Asparagus, young 
Asparagus, old 
Beans, fresh . 
Beans, dried . 
Beets, young 
Beets, old 
Brussels sprouts 
Cabbage, young 
Cabbage, old 
Carrots, young 
Carrots, old 
Cauliflower 
Corn 

Dandelions 
Onions . 
Parsnips 
Peas 
Potatoes 
Salsify . 
Squash, summer 
Squash, winter 
Spinach and other 
Sweet potatoes 
Turnips 



Time Table for boiling Vegetables 

45 to 60 minutes 



greens 



15 to 20 minutes 
30 to 50 minutes 

1 to 2 hours 

2 to 4 hours 
60 minutes 

3 to 5 hours 

15 to 20 minutes 
30 minutes 
2 to 3 hours 
30 minutes 

1 to 2 hours 

30 to 60 minutes 
5 to 20 minutes 

2 to 3 hours 

60 to 90 minutes 
1 to 2 hours 
20 to 40 minutes 
30 minutes 
30 to 60 minutes 
20 to 60 minutes 
60 to 90 minutes 
20 to 60 minutes 
30 to 60 minutes 
40 to 60 minutes 



97 



98 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Globe Artichokes 

Soak in cold water. Remove lower leaves and cut ends 
of others. Cook in boiling salted water forty -five minutes 
or until the leaves pull out. Drain. Serve with Bechamel 
or HoUandaise sauce or with drawn butter. 

Scalloped Globe Artichokes 

2 cups cooked artichokes 2 cups white sauce 

1 cup buttered crumbs 

Arrange in a scallop dish and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Wash and scrub. Cook in boiling salted water. Serve 
with melted butter or white sauce. They may be mari- 
nated with French dressing and served cold. 

Asparagus 

Wash stalks, snap off all white tough part. Tie in 
bunch. Cook in deep kettle of boiling salted water. Stand 
bunch upright for the first ten minutes. Cook twenty to 
thirty minutes. Drain. Serve on buttered toast, spread 
with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. White 
sauce or HoUandaise may be served. 

The asparagus may be broken in inch pieces, cooked 
until tender, mixed with white sauce, and served on 
toast. 

Shelled Beans 

Cook in boiling water until tender. Add salt after 
the first hour. Time of cooking depends upon age of 
beans. Drain, Serve with butter or cream or white 
sauce. Lima, kidney, or agricultural beans may be 
cooked in this way. 



VEGETABLES 99 

String Beans 

Remove all strings. Cut in inch pieces. Wash, cook 
in boiling water fifteen minutes. Add salt and cook until 
tender. Drain, add butter, salt and pepper. A piece of 
salt pork cooked with beans is considered by many an im- 
provement. 

Brussels Sprouts and Cabbage 

Remove outside leaves and soak in cold water for 
half an hour. Drain. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, changing the water at least once during cooking. 
Serve Brussels sprouts whole with butter and salt or with 
white sauce. Chop the cabbage when cooked, season with 
salt, pepper and butter, reheat and serve, or mix with one 
cup cabbage, with one cup white sauce, cover with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Kohl Slaw 

Shred cabbage finely. Soak in acidulated water. 
Drain, and cover with cream dressing. Serve very cold. 

Beets 

Scrub beets, but do not break skin. Cook in boiling 

water — young beets about an hour, old beets until tender. 

Slip skins off as soon as taken from stove. Serve hot with 

butter, salt and pepper. Serve cold beets for garnishing 

potato salad. 

Carrots 

Wash, scrub, and scrape. Cook in boiling salted water. 
Drain, cut in slices, and serve with white sauce; or they 
may be cut lengthwise and sauted in butter. 

Cauliflower 

Cut stalk close to flower, remove green leaves and soak 
in cold salted water one hour. Cook in cheese cloth bag 



100 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

thirty to forty minutes. Remove from bag and serve with 
HoUandaise or white sauce, or scalloped with white sauce 
and crumbs. 

Celery 

Celery is usually eaten raw as a relish. Or it may be 
scraped, cut in inch pieces, cooked until tender, and served 
in a white sauce, or drained and fried in deep fat. It 
may also be scalloped with chopped red pepper, white 
sauce and crumbs. 

Cucumbers 

Generally served sliced thinly and eaten raw. But if 
too old to serve in this way, they may be pared, cut in 
quarters, boiled, drained, mashed, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. 

Or they may be cut in quarters, dipped in batter, and 
fried in deep fat. 

Corn 

Remove husks and silk. Cook in a small amount of 
water from five to fifteen minutes. Cover while cooking 
with the inside green husks. Serve on the cob ; or cut 
from the cob and serve with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Corn may be made into fritters (see recipe) or mixed 
with beans for succotash. Also served as pudding mixed 
with eggs and milk. 

Greens 

Beet tops, dandelions, spinach, Swiss chard, young cab- 
bage sprouts, cowslips, may all be prepared in the same 
way. Wash in many waters until all grit and sand are 
removed. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain, chop, and serve with butter and salt. Lettuce may 
also be cooked and served in this way. Garnish greens 
with hard-cooked eggs. 



VEGETABLES 101 

Egg Plant 

Cut in slices one half inch thick. Remove skin, sprin- 
kle with salt, pile slices one on another, cover with plate 
and weight, let stand over night. Drain, wash in cold 
water. Dry, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, or in batter, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Lentils 

Soak over night and cook in boiling water until tender. 
Mash, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve ; or 
make in balls and saute in butter. 

Okra 

Wash, cut off ends of pods, cover with boiling salted 
water, and cook until tender. Season with butter, salt 
and pepper. Okra is more often stewed or scalloped with 
tomato than served plain. 

Onions 

Peel, cover with boiling salted water. Change water 
every ten minutes until tender. Drain, and add milk to 
cover. Reheat, season with butter, salt and pepper ; or 
serve with white sauce ; or scallop with white sauce and 
crumbs ; or stuff. When boiled, remove hearts, and fill 
the space with finely chopped peppers. Surround with 
white sauce. Bake, and baste with butter. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant 
Scrape, wash, and cook until tender. Drain, mash, sea- 
son, aiid saute in butter ; or cut in inch lengths, dip in 
fritter batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Parsnips 

Wash, scrape, and cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der. • Cut in halves, spread with salt and butter, and serve 
hot ; or mash, season, and saute in butter, 



102 LOWNMT'8 COOK BOOK 

Stuffed Peppers 

See recipes under head of Vegetable Entrees. 

Boiled Macaroni 
Break in inch pieces and wash. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Drain, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and serve hot. 

Macaroni with Sauce 
Prepare as for Boiled Macaroni. Drain, and reheat in 
cream sauce, tomato sauce, or Bechamel sauce. 

Baked Macaroni 

Prepare boiled macaroni. Drain, arrange in layers in a 
buttered baking dish with white sauce and cheese. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni Baked with Tomatoes 
Arrange layers of cooked macaroni, stewed and sea- 
soned tomato, and chopped green pepper. Dot each layer 
with butter. Cover all with buttered cracker crumbs. 

Bake in hot oven. 

Boiled Rice 

Wash one cup rice and drain. Fill a four-quart sauce- 
pan one half full of boiling salted water. Place on hot- 
test part of range. When boiling rapidly, sprinkle in the 
rice slowly, not to stop the boiling. Cook until tender, 
adding more water if needed. Drain in a colander, and 
place in the open oven to dry. 

Rice cooked in this way will have every grain separate. 

Summer Squash 

Wash and cut in quarters. Cook in boiling salted wa- 
ter until tender. Drain in cheese cloth. Add butter, 
salt and pepper. Reheat and serve. 



VEGETABLES 103 

Winter Squash 

Cut squash, remove seeds, and steam or boil until soft. 
Remove squash from shell. Add butter, salt and pepper. 
Reheat and serve. 

Baked Squash 

Cut in pieces for serving. Remove seeds and stringy- 
portion, brush with molasses, season with salt and pepper. 
Bake until soft, add butter, and serve in shell. 

Broiled Tomatoes 

Cut tomatoes in halves. Sprinkle each half with salt, 
pepper, and fine bread crumbs, and broil five minutes. 
Slip on to hot platter, dot with butter, place in the 
oven for five minutes. Serve hot. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Cut tomatoes in quarters lengthwise ; season with salt 
and pepper, dip in batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Sautid Tomatoes 

Slice tomatoes ; season with salt and jjepper. Dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and saute in hot frying pan. 
Serve on hot buttered toast. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Arrange in layers canned tomatoes and bread cut in 
cubes, sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, dot with 
butter. Bake one half hour. For variety rub dish with 
onion before putting in tomato. 

Stuffed Tomato 

Cut a thin slice from smooth end of tomatoes. Scoop 
out pulp, mix with an equal quantity of cold cooked rice, 
macaroni, or bread crumbs. Add salt, pepper, butter and 



104 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

a few drops of onion juice. Refill tomato shells, cover 
with tops, and bake one half hour. 

Peas 

Cook peas in boiling water. Use just enough water to 
keep them from burning. Add salt fifteen minutes be- 
fore taking them from the fire. Season with butter and 
pepper. 

Peas may be used for croquettes or may be used with 
white sauce and served in croustade cases. 

Equal quantities of chopped carrots and peas served 
together are delicious. 

Turnips in White Sauce 

Wash and pare; cut in pieces. Cook, mash, and season; 
or cut in cubes, cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
and serve in white sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Potatoes may be boiled with skins on, or may be pared 
and boiled in salted water. Old potatoes should be 
soaked in cold water at least an hour. Potatoes should 
be boiled gently and not fm-iously. 

When tender, drain thoroughly, dry on back of range. 
Shake saucepan, cover with coarse towel until ready to 
serve. 

Serve in open vegetable dish, never in a closed one. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water. Drain, mash. 
To each cup of mashed potato, allow one tablespoon 
butter, one half teaspoon salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper, 
and hot milk to make of creamy consistency. Beat with 
a fork until light. 



VEGETABLES 105 

Potato Balls 

Add to one pint hot mashed potatoes, one eighth tea- 
spoon celery salt, one teaspoon chopped parsley, salt, 
pepper, and butter to taste, and enough hot milk to make 
of consistency to shape. Form into smooth round balls, 
bake in hot buttered pan; or saute in butter; or fry in deep 
fat. Or they may be sauted in sausage fat, which gives an 
appetizing flavor. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut two cups cold boiled potatoes in very thin slices, or 
in cubes. Add one cup white sauce. Season highly and 
reheat in double boiler. Serve in hot dish sprinkled 
with finely chopped parsley. 

Stewed Potatoes 

Mix two cups potato cubes with two tablespoons butter, 
two cups milk, salt and pepper. 

Dredge with two tablespoons flour and cook twenty 
minutes in double boiler. 



Scalloped Potatoes 

Mix two cups potato cubes with two cups white sauce, 
cover with buttered bread crumbs, and bake thirty 
minutes in hot oven. A few drops onion juice may be 
added. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Melt two tablespoons butter. Add one tablespoon finely 
chopped onion. When onion is yellow, add two cups 
potato cubes. Season with salt and pepper, cook until 
potatoes are heated through, and sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley, and serve. 



1Q6 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare small raw potatoes, divide in halves, and cut each 
half in three pieces; cover with boiling water and let stand 
three minutes. Drain dry between cloths, and cook in 
frying basket in hot fat ten minutes. Drain, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve. 

Potato Chips 

Slice raw potatoes, cover with cold water, and let soak 
over night. Drain dry between towels and fry in frying 
basket in hot fat about ten minutes. Drain and sprinkle 
with salt. Care must be used when lowering the basket 
into the hot fat, as the potatoes contain so much water it 
causes violent ebullition. 

Potato Puff 

Prepare two cups hot mashed potato. Add one half 
cup milk, two well-beaten yolks, two tablespoons butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Beat well; add beaten whites of 
two eggs. Pile lightly in buttered baking dish and bake 
until puffed and brown. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Sprinkle two cups cold boiled potato cubes with salt 
and pepper. Melt one tablespoon butter; add one table- 
spoon flour and one half cup brown stock. Cook five 
minutes; add potato cubes; cook ten minutes, stirring, 
without breaking potatoes. Melt one tablespoon butter 
in another frying pan. When brown, turn in potatoes, 
spread evenly, and cook ten minutes; fold like an omelet, 

and serve hot. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Bake six potatoes. When done, cut a lengthwise slice ; 
scoop out the potato with a spoon. Mash ; add one table- 
spoon butter, salt, pepper, one half cup milk, and two eggs, 



VEGETABLES 107 

whites beaten stiff. Refill skins with this mixture. Pile 
lightly, do not smooth, and bake until potatoes are puffed 
and brown. 

French Potato Balls 

Cut two cups of potato balls with French potato cutter. 
Parboil ten minutes, drain, and fry in deep fat. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel 

Cook two cups potato balls in boiling water until tender. 
Drain, and serve with maitre d'hotel butter. 

Italian Potatoes 

Mix two cups hot mashed potatoes, one teaspoon onion 
juice, one tablespoon finely chopped parsley, one egg yolk 
well beaten, four stiffly beaten whites, one half cup grated 
cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Pile lightly in bak- 
ing dish and bake until brown. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare six medium-sized potatoes ; parboil five minutes. 
Place on grate under roast beef. Baste with beef fat, and 
bake from twenty to thirty minutes, turning often. 

Baked Potatoes 

Wash and scrub six potatoes of uniform size. Place in 
dripping pan, and bake in hot oven forty-five minutes to 
one hour, turning when half done. Pierce with skewer, 
and serve immediately. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Brush with butter and 
sprinkle with brown sugar. Brown in hot oven. . 



108 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Southern Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in lengthwise slices. 
Arrange in layers in buttered baking dish. Cover each 
layer with brown sugar, dot with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, add one cup boiling water, and bake in 
hot oven. 



CHAPTER VI 
CEREALS 

Suggestions for (booking Cereals 

Mix the cereal very gradually with the amount of boil- 
ing salted water, and cook in double boiler until done. To 
hasten the cooking, cook in single boiler or saucepan for 
the first part of the time, stirring constantly to keep grain 
from sticking. 

As a rule, cook steam-cooked cereals twice the time 
given on the package. 

Coarse cereals, like rice and hominy, should be cooked in 
a large quantity of water, and stirred as little as possible. 

Fine cereals, like wheatena, wheat germ, and others, are 
more easily kept from lumping by first mixing them with 
a small amount of cold water, and then adding to the boil- 
ing water. 

Rolled Oats 

1 cup rolled oats If cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix all ingredients, and cook in double boiler thirty 
minutes to one hour. 

Old-fashioned Oatmeal 

1 cup oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

IJ teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients, and cook in double boiler six to eight 
hours. 

109 



110 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Boiled Hominy No. i 

1 cup hominy (fine) 4 cups boiling water 

IJ teaspoons salt 

Cook all ingredients, stirring occasionally, for one honr. 

Boiled Hominy No. 2 

1 cup coarse hominy 8 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients and cook six to eight hours, or, instead 
of boiling, cook in double boiler all day. 

Cracked Wheat 

1 cup wheat 5 cups boiling water 

1^ teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients and cook in double boiler from three 

to five hours. 

Prepared Cereals 

The recipes given on the packages for all prepared ce- 
reals may be followed, doubling the amount of time given. 

Boiled Rice No. 2 

1 cup rice 2| cups boiling water 

_ 1 teaspoon salt 

Salt water, add rice a feAv grains at a time, so as not to 
stop the boiling, boil rapidly one half hour. When grains 
are tender, drain in colander, and pour boiling water 
over rice to wash starch from grains. Serve immediately. 

Steamed Rice 

1 cup rice 2i cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Place rice in earthen dish, add salt and boiling water, 
and steam two to three hours. Cooked in this way, every 
grain should be separate. 



CEREALS 111 

Corn Meal Mush 

1 cup corn meal 4 cups boiling water 

\\ teaspoons salt 

Salt water, add corn meal, a little at a time, until all is 
used, boil five minutes, and cook in double boiler three 
hours. 

Sauted or Fried Corn Meal Mush 

1 cup corn meal 4 cups boiling water 

\ cup white flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook in the same way as corn meal mush, pour while 
hot into greased bread pan or baking powder box. When 
cold, slice and saute in pork fat, first on one side and then 
on the other ; or fry in deep fat. 



CHAPTER VII 

EGGS 

A PKESH egg sinks when immersed in water. A stale 
egg, owing to evaporation which has taken place through 
the pores of the shell, floats. 

Soft -cooked Eggs No. i 

Place eggs in saucepan, cover with boiling water, and 

let them stand in saucepan on the back of the range three 

minutes; in this way the white and the yolk are slightly 

coagulated. 

Soft-cooked Eggs No. 2 

Fill saucepan one half full of boiling water ; w^hen boil- 
ing violently, place eggs in gently with a tablespoon ; when 
water bubbles, remove saucepan from fire and let the eggs 
remain in water five minutes. Eggs cooked in this way 
have the albumen delicately hardened throughout. 

Soft-cooked Eggs No. 3 

Place eggs in saucepan, cover with cold water, bring to 
the boiling point, when they will be soft-cooked. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cover eggs with boiling water and cook below the boil- 
ing point for forty minutes. Remove from pan, cover 
with cold water, and wipe before serving. 

Baked Eggs 

Butter baking dish or platter, or individual ramekin 
dishes. Break each egg into a cup and drop into baking 

1:2 



EGGS 113 

dish, sprinkle witli salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate 
oven — five minutes for soft-cooked and ten for hard- 
cooked. Eggs are more delicately cooked if dish is placed 
in a pan of hot water in the oven, and water kept below 
the boiling point during cooking. 

Chopped red or green pepper sprinkled over top of baked 

eggs is delicious. 

Poached Eggs 

Break eggs in cup ; butter muffin rings. Place in shal- 
low pan and cover with boiling water. Allow two tea- 
spoons of salt to each pint of water. Drop eggs into 
rings, and cook from five to eight minutes, keeping water 
below the boiling point during cooking. 

Remove the eggs on a buttered skimmer or pancake 
turner, and place on a round of buttered toast, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and garnish with parsley. 

Fluffed Eggs 

Beat the white until stiff ; add a few grains of salt ; place 
in a buttered ramekin dish or saucer; put a piece of butter 
in center of white, and place unbroken yolk on top. Set 
the egg dish in pan of boiling water ; cover and cook 
three minutes. Serve immediately. 

Poached Eggs a la Fran9aise 

Fill a saucepan three fourths full of boiling water ; add 
salt and vinegar, stir the boiling water vigorously with a 
spoon. Break egg in cup and drop deftly into eddy 
formed by swift stirring of water. When white is firm, 
remove with buttered skimmer, trim, and serve. 

Poached Egg in Tomato 

Cut a piece from the stem end of a tomato ; remove pulp ; 
set in ramekin dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, being 



114 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

careful not to break the yolk ; cover with buttered paper. 
Set in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven until 
firm. 

Scrambled Eggs No. i 

4 eggs I teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons milk or cream 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

J teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 

Beat egg slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites ; 
add seasonings, parsley and milk. Melt butter in frying 
pan, add egg mixture, and cook slowly, lifting carefuUj' 
with a spoon to keep mixture uniformly delicate. 

Scrambled Eggs No. 2 

Prepare the same as Scrambled Eggs No. 1, beating 
yolks and whites separately. Many persons have better 
success scrambling eggs in a double boiler instead of in a 
frying pan. 

Scrambled eggs can be varied in appearance and flavor 
by adding various chopped meats, condiments, vegetables, 
cheese, or mushrooms. 

Fried Eggs 

Melt butter, bacon fat or pork fat in frying pan ; when 
it bubbles, turn in egg, which has been previously broken 
into a cup ; when white is set, baste with liquid fat. If 
desired hard, turn and cook on both sides. 

Omelet 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons hot water or hot milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Beat eggs well ; add salt and milk. Melt butter in fry- 
ing pan ; add egg mixture ; shake pan vigorously until 
egg begins to brown on under side ; then let it stand until 



EOas 115 

golden brown, on part of range where it will not burn. 
If moist on top, place in oven to dry. Separate omelet 
from sides of pan with knife, and beginning at side near 
the handle, roll omelet slowly and carefully into the shape 
of a jelly roll; turn on to a hot platter, garnish, and serve. 

Omelets may be varied in the following ways: — 

Bacon Omelet, by adding finely chopped cooked bacon 
before folding. 

Cheese Omelet, by adding grated cheese before folding. 

Creamed Salt Fish Omelet, by combining creamed salt 
fish and finely chopped red pepper, and adding to omelet 
before folding. 

Kidney Omelet, by adding stewed kidneys, highly 
seasoned. 

Mushroom Omelet, by adding mushrooms. 

And continuing through a multiplicity of combinations. 

Foamy Omelet 

Same ingredients as for first omelet, beating yolks and 
whites separately and combining ingredients in a way to 
produce a foamy appearance before pouring into omelet 
pan. 

Creamy Omelet 

4 eggs I teaspoon pepper 

J teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

J cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt butter ; add flour, milk, and yolks of eggs, beaten 
until lemon-colored and thick. Beat whites until stiff, 
cut, and fold into first mixture; add seasonings; pour into 
buttered pan, and cook as first omelet. Turn on to a hot 
platter ; garnish with white sauce, and parsley. 

Note. — For a sweet omelet add one fourth cup sugar to the yolks 
of eggs of above omelet. 



116 LOWJSTEY'S COOK BOOK 

Goldenrod Eggs 

6 slices butter toast J teaspoon salt 

6 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

2 cups white sauce J teaspoon pepper 

Remove shell from eggs ; chop whites finely ; add to 
white sauce. Press yolks through sieve and add season- 
ings. Pour white sauce over toast arranged on a platter, 
and garnish with yolks of eggs and parsley. 

This dish may be very attractively arranged by placing 
spoonfuls of finely chopped ham around the toast. 

Stuffed Eggs 

6 eggs hard-cooked J cup finely minced chicken or 

J cup white sauce other meat 

1 tablespoon chopped red salt, pepper, Worcestershire sauce 

pepper 

Cut eggs in halves lengthwise, remove yolks, and mash. 
Add meat and seasonings ; moisten with white sauce ; press 
in shape of ball and return to white. These eggs may be 
placed in a dish, covered with white sauce and buttered 
crumbs, and baked; or covered with a small square of paraf- 
fine paper daintily twisted at the ends, for a picnic dish. 

French Omelet 

2 eggs J teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons hot water few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon butter 

Melt butter in frying pan, add well-beaten eggs, to 
which seasonings and hot water have been added. Cook 
on cool portion of range, lifting mixture as for scrambled 
eggs. When creamy, pour into a hot buttered frying 
pan, brown delicately, fold, and serve. Garnish with 
parsley. 



EGGS 117 

German Omelet 

2 eggs salt, pepper, nutmeg 

1 yolk J cup finely chopped chives 
^ cup cream 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon finely chopped red 

pepper 

Mix eggs, flour, seasonings ; add cream, and beat all five 

minutes. Melt butter, pour in egg mixture, and cook 

until delicately browned underneath. Turn, fold, and 

serve. 

Spanish Omelet 

Use recipe for French Omelet, and garnish with Span- 
ish sauce. 

Spanish sauce is made by sauteing two tablespoons each 
of chopped onion, green pepper, a clove of garlic, in four 
tablespoons butter until yellow; add one cup of tomato. 
Season with salt, pepper and cayenne, and cook until 
thick. One half cup mushrooms sauted with onions is an 
improvement. 



CHAPTER VIII 
SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter J teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour few grains cayenne 

1 cup milk or white stock J teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, seasonings and liquid. Stir until 
the boiling point is reached. Boil five minutes, beating 
constantly. 

Brown Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk or brown stock 

4 tablespoons flour J teaspoon salt 

few grains pepper 

Melt the butter and cook until brown, add flour and 
seasonings, and stir until brown. Add liquid, little at a 
time, and boil five minutes, stirring all of the time. 

Allemande Sauce 

Use same ingredients as for Veloute Sauce, adding the 
yolks of two eggs and one teaspoon chopped parsley. 
Cook one minute. 

Bechamel Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter bit of bay leaf 
2 tablespoons flour J teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped onion J teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped carrot 1 cup white stock 

Saute vegetables in butter. Remove vegetables, add 
flour and remaining ingredients, boil two minutes, and 
simmer ten minutes. 

A richer sauce is made by adding one half cup cream. 

118 



SAUCES FOB MEAT AND VEGETABLES 119 

Blarnaise Sauce 

4 egg yolks 4 tablespoons oil or butter 

J teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar 

cayenne 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Mix yolks and water ; add butter and set in a dish of hot 
water ; stir constantly until mixture thickens ; add season- 
ings and serve immediately. 

Tomato B€arnaise Sauce 

To Bearnaise Sauce add one fourth cup tomato puree. 

Both Bearnaise and Tomato Bearnaise Sauces must be 
cooked at a low temperature, otherwise the mixture will 
not be smooth. The sauce should be creamy and of the 
consistency of mayonnaise dressing. 

Bread Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter sprig of parsley 

J cup bread crumbs |- teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped onion J teaspoon pepper 

3 cloves If cups milk 
bit of bay leaf bit of mace 

Scdld milk with seasonings, cook twenty minutes, strain ; 
add crumbs and butter, cook twenty minutes, and serve 
with game. 

Browned Bread Sauce 

Use same rule as for Bread Sauce, adding one cup 
crumbs, which have been sauted a light brown in butter. 

Black Butter Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon parsley 
few grains cayenne 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Brown butter, add remaining ingredients. Serve. 



120 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Caper Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter few grains cayenne 

4 tablespoons flour 1| cups boiling water 

^ teaspoon salt J cup capers 

few drops onion juice 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt the two tablespoons butter, add flour, seasonings, 
and water. Cook ten minutes ; add capers and just before 
serving a tablespoon butter. 

Celery Sauce 

Use recipe for White Sauce, using instead of one cup of 
milk, one half cup of milk and one half cup of water in 
which celery was cooked. 

Add just before serving two cups of chopped celery 
which has been boiled until tender. 

Champagne Sauce 
Add to Brown Sauce, one half cup of champagne and 
two tablespoons finely chopped pimentoes. 

Chestnut Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter J teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour J teaspoon paprika 

1 cup stock 1 cup mashed chestnuts 

Melt butter; add flour and seasonings. When smooth, 
add stock; boil five minutes; add chestnuts; reheat and 
serve. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add one half cup currant jelly, one tea- 
spoon lemon juice and a few drops onion juice. Boil five 

minutes and serve. 

Curry Sauce 

Add to White Sauce one tablespoon curry and a few 
drops of onion juice. There is less liability of the curry 
lumping if blended with the flour before adding to butter. 



SAUCES FOIi MEAT AND VEGETABLES 121 

Cucumber Sauce 

Grate two cucumbers to pulp; add one teaspoon salt, 
one fourth teaspoon pepper, few grains cayenne, few drops 
onion juice, and two tablespoons vinegar. 

Egg Sauce 

To White Sauce add two hard-cooked eggs finely 

chopped. 

Yellow Egg Sauce 

To White Sauce add few drops of onion juice and the 
yolks of three eggs; salt and pepper if necessary. 

Espagnole Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons butter; add two tablespoons each 
of onion, celery, ham, red pepper, and parsley, three table- 
spoons flour, one half teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne 
and two cups white stock. Cook one hour. Strain, serve. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

4 egg yolks J teaspoon pepper 

^ cup butter few grains cayenne 

I teaspoonful salt J cup cold water 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Put all ingredients, except the lemon juice, into a sauce- 
pan; set saucepan into a larger one of hot water. Beat 
constantly until mixture thickens, keeping water below 
the boiling point all the time. Add lemon juice and serve 

immediately. 

Hollandaise Sauce No. 2 

J cup butter i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice J teaspoon paprika 

4 egg yolks few grains cayenne 

Cream butter; add lemon juice, yolks of eggs, one by 
one. When well blended add seasonings and cook over 
boiling water, just long enough to thoroughly heat the 



122 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

mixture. Should the mixture become overcooked, add 
two teaspoons cold water and beat vigorously. 

Horse-radish Sauce 

\ cup freshly grated horse- 1 cup White Sauce 

radish \ teaspoon paprika 

J cup soft bread crumbs 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Mix horse-radish, bread crumbs, salt, paprika and White 
Sauce. When hot, add lemon juice and vinegar. 

Horse-radish Hollandaise 

To Hollandaise Sauce add a few drops of onion juice 
and five tablespoons grated horse-radish. 

Lobster Sauce 

To White Sauce, add one half tablespoon lemon juice, 

one cup chopped lobster meat, and the dried and pounded 

lobster coral. 

Lobster Hollandaise 

To Hollandaise Sauce, add few gratings of nutmeg, one 

cup chopped lobster meat, and the dried and pounded 

coral. 

Madeira Sauce 

1 cup Brown Sauce 1 tablespoon chopped pimento 

1 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 4 tablespoons Madeira 
1 tablespoon chopped celery few grains cayenne 

Combine all ingredients, except Madeira; simmer one 
half hour. Add Madeira and serve. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter J teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons lemon juice \ teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons parsley cayenne 

Cream the butter and add remaining ingredients. 



SAUC£:S FOB MEAT AND VEGETABLES 123 

Milanaise Sauce 
3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon capers 

3 tablespoons chopped 3 tablespoons flour 

mushrooms 1| cups stock 

1 teaspoon anchovy paste cayenne 

salt 2 tablespoons wine 

Cook mushrooms, capers and anchovy in butter five 
minutes. Add flour, stock, seasonings, and simmer one 
half hour. Add wine and serve. 

Mint Sauce 

1 bunch mint 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup vinegar 

Wash mint, remove leaves, and chop ; add remaining 
ingredients ; let it stand one half hour. Serve hot or cold. 
Mustard Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon French mus- ^ teaspoon sugar 
tard few grains cayenne 

1 cup stock 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, sugar and cayenne. 
When w^ell blended, add stock, simmer twenty minutes, 
add vinegar, and serve. 

Mushroom Sauce 
1 cup Brown Sauce 1 tablespoon butter 

^ cup canned mushrooms 1 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

1 egg yolk salt, pepper, cayenne 

Chop mushrooms, saute in butter, add egg yolk and 
kitchen bouquet; when well blended add Brown Sauce. 
Reheat and serve, seasoning if necessary. 
Mushroom Sauce No. 2 
1 cup White Sauce 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup fresh mushrooms 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon mushroom 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce 

catsup ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon wine 



124 lowney's cook book 

Chop mushrooms, and saute in butter; add to White 
Sauce ; cook ten minutes. Add remaining - ingredients 
and serve. 

Olive Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add one teaspoon chopped onion and 
one half cup stoned, chopped, and boiled olives. 

Onion Sauce 

To one cup White Sauce add one half cup cream and 
one cup boiled onions, finely chopped. Simmer twenty- 
minutes. 

Orange Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter I cup Port wine 

4 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons currant jelly 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 cup stock 

J teaspoon salt juice and grated rind of two oi-anges 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, stock, cook ten 
minutes ; add currant jelly, cook five minutes ; add orange 
juice, rind, and wine. Serve when hot. 

Orange HoUandaise 

To HoUandaise Sauce add juice and rind of one orange 
and few grains of cayenne. 

Oyster Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup oysters 
4 tablespoons flour J teaspoon salt 

IJ cups oyster liquor few grains cayenne 

Parboil oysters ; drain and reserve liquor. Make a 
White Sauce, with butter, flour, seasonings, and oyster 
liquor ; add chopped oysters and serve. Should there not 
be sufficient oyster liquor make up amount with milk. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES 125 

Pepper Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two tablespoons chopped pepper, 
one tablespoon chopped onion, or a clove of garlic, one 
teaspoon parsley, one teaspoon kitchen bouquet. Simmer 
one half hour, strain and serve. 

Piquante Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon chopped chives 

i tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

3 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped pepper 

1^ cups Brown Stock 1 tablespoon chopped pickle 

J teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon capers 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Brown the butter; add the flour; when browned, add 
stock. Cook chives, capers, pickles, olives and pepper in 
vinegar five minutes. Add to sauce and simmer twenty- 
minutes. 

Poulette Sauce 

To White Sauce add one half cup cream ; when boiling 
pour on to two egg yolks slightly beaten, cook one minute; 
add one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and two tablespoons lemon juice. 

Port Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two tablespoons butter in which 
have been cooked one tablespoon onion, one tablespoon 
Worcestershire Sauce, and one half cup Port wine. 

Ravigote Sauce 

Melt four tablespoons butter ; add one half cup onion. 
Add to one cup of Bechamel Sauce, with one tablespoon 
each of minced and pounded chives, tarragon, parsley and 
thyme. Strain and serve after reheating. 



126 lownet's cook book 



Sorrel Sauce 



To HoUandaise Sauce add one cup washed and chopped 

sorrel. 

Shrimp Sauce 

\ cup butter ] teaspoon salt 

\ cup flour \ teaspoon pepper 

1-| cups hot water 2 egg yolks 

\ cup shrimps 

Melt butter ; add flour. When well blended, add hot 
water, cook thirty minutes ; add seasonings and pour on 
to the slightly beaten yolks of eggs ; add shrimps broken 
in pieces and serve. 

Sauce Supreme 

To White Sauce made with white stock, add one half 
cup of cream, two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon lemon 
juice. Cook twenty minutes and add one fourth cup wine. 

Soubise Sauce 

To HoUandaise Sauce, add one cup finely chopped 
cooked and seasoned onion. 

Sauce Tartare 
To one cup of mayonnaise dressing add one tablespoon 
each of finely chopped parsley, finely chopped olives, 
finely chopped pickle, and one teaspoon finely chopped 

chives. 

Tomato Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon parsley 

2 tablespoons onion J teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons carrot 1 cup stock 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup tomato 

Melt butter; add onion, carrot and parsley. Cook five 
minutes. Strain. To butter add flour ; when well 
blended add stock and tomato. Simmer one half hour. 
Serve. 



SAUCES FOE MEAT AND VEGETABLES 127 

Tomato Cream Sauce 

1 cup White Sauce 1 tablespoon kitchen bouquet 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce 

1 tablespoon choppfed celery | teaspoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 cup tomatoes 
J teaspoon soda 

Melt butter; add celery and onion, cook five minutes; 
add tomatoes; cook ten minutes. Strain; add soda. To 
White Sauce add kitchen bouquet and Worcestershire 
Sauce; cook five minutes. 

Combine Tomato Sauce and White Sauce; add lemon 

juice and serve. 

Trianon Sauce 

To Hollandaise Sauce, add one half cup sauted mush- 
rooms and two tablespoons wine. 

Veloute Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter nutmeg * 

i tablespoons flour 1 cup white stock 

i teaspoon salt ^ cup cream 

i cup mushrooms 

Melt butter; add mushrooms, flour, salt, nutmeg and 
white stock; simmer ten minutes. Add cream and cook 
in double boiler one half hour. Just before serving add 
one tablespoon butter. 



CHAPTER IX 
ENTREES 

Chicken Force Meat 

1 cup cooked chicken ^ cup soft bread crumbs 

salt, pepper I cup hot milk 

lemon juice, onion juice 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Chop meat and press through a sieve. Soak bread in 

milk; add it with remaining ingredients to chicken; season 

highly and use as a filling in fontage cups, or shape in 

balls and poach in hot water, or shape in balls, roll in flour, 

and saute. 

Tomato Force Meat 

1 tomato finely chopped 2 tablespoons butter 

1 pimento finely chopped 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup raw fish finely chopped I teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Melt butter; add onion, cook three minutes; add remain- 
ing ingredients, cook ten minutes. Use as filling for fish 
sandwiches, or spread over fish chops, or poach and serve 

with White Sauce. 

Aspic Jelly 

2 quarts consomme 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 
1 tablespoon lemon juice | cup hot water 

Boil consomme with lemon juice until reduced to one 
quart. Season well and clear. Soak gelatine in two table- 
spoons cold water and dissolve in hot water,' add to clear 
consomme, strain, and use as a mold for fish, meats and 
salads. It is very necessary that the consomme be highly 
seasoned, as the success of the aspic depends on the flavor. 

128 



ENTBESS 129 

Quick Aspic Jelly 
A quick and satisfactory aspic is made by dissolving 
three tablespoons Liebig's beef extract in one quart boil- 
ing water, seasoning well with lemon juice, onion juice, 
sherry wine, salt and pepper. Clear, add two tablespoons 
dissolved gelatine, and use the same as Aspic Jelly. 

Chicken SoufE16 

1^ cups chicken J cup chicken stock 

1 cup mushrooms J cup cream 

2 tablespoons butter salt and cayenne 

4 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon parsley 

J cup bread crumbs 3 egg whites 

3 egg yolks J cup sherry 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings, stock, cream, chicken, 
mushrooms, bread crumbs ; cook ten minutes ; add egg 
yolks and cut and fold in whites beaten until stiff, and the 
sherry. Bake in buttered baking dish forty minutes. 
Serve immediately with or without Mushroom Sauce. 

Chicken Timbales 

2 cups raw chicken meat J teaspoon salt 

J cup bread crumbs — soft few grains cayenne 

1 cup beaten cream 4 egg whites beaten until stiff 

Chop meat and press through sieve ; add remaining in- 
gredients and fill buttered timbale molds which have been 
previously sprinkled with finely chopped pickles or olives. 
Bake in pan of hot water twenty minutes. Remove and 
serve with Hollandaise Sauce or Parmesan Sauce. 

Chicken Mousse 
1 cup chicken stock 2 teaspoons granulated gelatine 

^ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cold water 

paprika and celery salt 1 cup beaten cream 

1 cup cold cooked chicken 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

2 egg whites 



130 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Heat chicken stock ; add seasoning, gelatine which has 
been soaked in cold water. When dissolved, add chicken 
finely chopped, beaten cream; beat well; cut and fold in 
the beaten whites ; pour into buttered molds and chill for 
two or three hours. Serve as a salad with mayonnaise. 

Lobster Mousse 

Lobster mousse may be prepared in the same way as 
chicken mousse, substituting lobster meat for chicken. 

Fish Timbales 

1 cup raw fish few grains cayenne 

J cup almonds 1 cup whipped cream 

1 teaspoon salt 4 egg whites 

few drops onion juice 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Chop fish and press through a sieve ; add onion juice, 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. When well mixed add 
whipped cream, almonds finely chopped, and egg whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. 

Fill buttered timbale molds with this mixture, set in 
pan of hot water, and bake ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
hot with Cucumber or Tomato Sauce, or cold, with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Imperial Fish Timbales 

1 cup cooked fish 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
I cup milk 1 teaspoon parsley 

3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

Melt butter ; add flour, milk, seasonings and parsley ; 
cook five minutes. Add fish, boil two minutes, egg yolks. 
Cool. Fold in stiftly beaten whites. Fill molds with 
this mixture. Set in a pan of hot water and bake twenty 
minutes. 



ENTREES 131 

Remove from mold and serve at once with Lobster, 
Shrimp, or HoUandaise Sauce. 

Lobster Timbales 
Follow recipe for Fish Timbales, substituting one cup of 
lobster meat for fish and adding one half cup mushrooms 
finely chopped. Cook same as Fish Timbales. Serve 
with Bechamel Sauce, garnish each timbale with a sprig of 
parsley, and sprinkle coral pressed through a sieve over all. 

Chicken Livers in Fontage Cups 
1 cup chicken livers \ cup chicken stock 

\ cup salt pork cubes 2 tablespoons flour 

\ cup mushrooms 

Chop livers and saute in pork fat; add flour, stock and 
mushrooms. Cook five minutes, season to taste, and serve 
in fontage cups. 

Mock Terrapin in Fontage Cups 

1 cup chickens' livers \ teaspoon salt 

\ cup cooked rice cayenne and nutmeg 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 tablespoon. butter 

1 teaspoon parsley chopped 2 tablespoons flour 

\ cup cream 

Melt butter; add floar, seasonings, cream, livers, and 
eggs finely chopped; cook five minutes; add rice; reheat 
and serve in fontage cups. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups 

2 cups cooked sweetbreads 2 tablespoons butter 
\ cup mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon oil I cup cream 

\ tablespoon vinegar salt, pepper, cayenne 

Melt butter ; add flour, seasonings and cream; cook five 
minutes. Cover sweetbreads and mushrooms with oil and 
vinegar, and let stand twenty minutes, drain, add to sauce, 
reheat, and serve in fontage cups. 



132 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Sweetbreads and Chicken in Fontage Cups 

Substitute one half cup cold cooked chicken cut in small 
pieces for the one half cup of mushrooms, and proceed as 
for Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups. 

Creamed Oysters and Celery in Fontage Cups 

1 pint oysters 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter j cup cream 

1 tablespoon lemon juice salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons wine 

1 cup chopped celery 

Melt butter, add oysters and cook one minute. Remove 
oysters, add remaining ingredients except wine, cook until 
thick, add oysters and wine, and serve in fontage cups. 

Creamed Lobster in Fontage Cups 

2 cups lobster meat 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup chicken stock 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

i cup cream 1 egg yolk 

salt and cayenne 

Melt butter; add onion, flour, stock and lemon juice; 
cook five minutes; season with salt and pepper; add 
cream, in which yolk of egg has been beaten, and lobster 
meat. When hot, serve in fontage cups. 

Creamed Crabs in Fontage Cups 

Substitute two cups crab meat cut in fine pieces for lob- 
ster meat and proceed as for Creamed Lobster. 

Creamed Shrimps in Fontage Cups 

Substitute two cups shrimps broken in small pieces for 
lobster meat, and follow rule for Creamed Lobster. 



ENTEEES . 133 

Shad Roe Croquettes 

2 cups cooked shad roe 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

2 egg yolks salt, pepper, cayenne 

1 tablespoon parsley lemon juice 

Cut shad roe in small pieces ; add seasonings, sauce and 
yolks of eggs. Shape ; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs ; 
fry. 

Lobster Croquettes 

2 cups chopped lobster meat 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
salt, pepper and cayenne 1 tablespoon parsley 

J teaspoon nutmeg 2 hard-cooked egg yolks 

1 cup Croquette Sauce 

Mix ingredients in order given ; shape in croquette or 
chop form ; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Fry in deep 
fat. If in chop form, make incision and insert small lob- 
ster claw. 

Meat, Rice, and Tomato Croquettes 
1 cup chopped meat salt, pepper and cayenne 

1 cup hot rice lemon juice 

1 cup Croquette Sauce made with onion juice 
tomato instead of milk 

Mix ingredients in order given ; shape ; dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs ; fry in deep fat. 

Fontage Cups or Timbale Cases 

i cup flour 1 egg yolk 

^ teaspoon salt cayenne 

1 tablespoon olive oil J cup milk 

Mix ingredients in order given until smooth, strain, and 
let stand over night in a warm place. Heat fontage iron 
in hot fat, drain, dip in batter, place in hot fat, and fry un- 
til a delicate brown. Remove from iron, invert, and drain. 

These cups are used for all kinds of creamed mixtures 
and forcemeats, and are used instead of patty shells and 
croustades. 



134 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Croquette Mixtures 

3 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 

5 tablespoons flour celery salt 

1 cup stock or milk lemon juice 

few drops onion juice 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings and milk. Cook 
until thick. This sauce is sufficient to thicken two cups of 
meat, for all kinds of croquettes. It may be varied by 
adding two egg yolks or one egg. 

Chicken Croquettes 

2 cups chicken meat 1 cup Croquette Sauce 
salt, pepper, lemon juice onion juice 

Cut meat in small pieces; add seasonings and White 
Sauce. Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. These croquettes may be varied by adding one 
fourth cup of chopped mushrooms, ham, sweetbreads, or 
truffles. More or less sauce is required according to the 
dryness of chicken. 

Sweetbread and Mushroom Croquettes 

1 cup mushrooms cut in 1 cup cold cooked sweetbreads 

small pieces cut in dice 

salt and pepper lemon juice and onion juice 

1 cup Croquette Sauce 

Saute mushrooms in butter; add seasonings, sauce. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry. 

Fish Croquettes 

2 cups cold cooked fish lemon juice and onion juice 
salt and pepper 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix all ingredients; add more lemon juice if needed. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 

One cup tomato may be substituted for the one cup 
milk or stock in Croquette Sauce. 



ENTMEES 135 

Rolled Fillets of Flounder with Bechamel Sauce 

2 flounders salt, pepper and cayenne 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup cream 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 4 lemons 

Make eight fillets from the flounder. Melt butter; add 
lemon juice and parsley. Dip fillets in this mixture; roll 
and skewer fillets; put in baking dish; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Cover with cream and cook in oven 
until tender. Arrange on platter, pour around the fillets 
Bechamel sauce, and garnish with lemon basket in the 
center, filled with sauce, yolks of eggs pressed through 
ricer and whites cut in shape of petals. 

Curried Lobster in Rice Timbales 

2 cups lobster meat 1 tablespoon curry 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream or stock 

2 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon chopped onion salt, paprika and cayenne 

Melt butter; add onion; when yellow add flour, curry 
and cream. Cook five minutes. Season; add egg yolks 
and lobster meat. Sprinkle with finely powdered coral if 
there is any. Fill rice timbale cases, reheat, and serve. 

Rice Timbale Cases 

1 cup rice lemon juice, onion juice 

salt, pepper and cayenne 4 cups milk 

Wash rice; add seasonings and milk. Cook in double 
boiler until milk is absorbed and rice is tender. 

Fill timbale molds, press rice in firmly, cool, scoop out 
center, and fill with any creamed mixture. 

Creamed Salmon in Rice Timbales 

Use rule for Curried Lobster, substituting two cups 
flaked salmon for lobster meat, and one half cup olives finely 



136 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

chopped for curry. Line one large mold with cooked 
rice, fill with creamed salmon, cover top with rice, and 
steam one half hour. Serve, garnish with individual rice 
timbales, parsley, and Tomato Cream Sauce. 

Chicken in Aspic « 

1 cooked, boned chicken 2 hard-cooked eggs 

2 quarts aspic jelly mixture parsley 

Select a mold large enough to hold chicken, cover bot- 
tom of mould with Aspic Jelly Mixture, and set on ice to 
harden. Cut hard-cooked white of eggs into slices, cut 
yolk in slices, and stamp out small rounds with a vegeta- 
ble cutter. Cut white of egg slices to resemble petals. 
Arrange on top of the hardened jelly in the form of 
daisies, taking up each piece on a needle and dipping in 
liquid jelly before placing. Cover with jelly mixture, 
adding by spoonfuls to avoid disturbing the design. 

When hard place chicken on jelly, breast downward, 
cover with liquid jelly, and set away to harden. 

The sides may be decorated in the same way as the bot- 
tom if more elaboration is desired. 

Unmold, place on bed of parsley or lettuce, and garnish 
with pimentos or olives. 
Quail in Aspic — Pheasant -in Aspic — Partridge in Aspic — 

Tongue in Aspic — Oysters in Aspic — Lobster in Aspic — 

Shrimp in Aspic — Chicken Breasts in Aspic — Tomatoes in 

Aspic — Cucumbers in Aspic — Eggs in Aspic — Aspic of Pate 

de Foie Gras 

Cover bottom of mold with Aspic Jelly Mixture; deco- 
rate with truffles cut in fancy shapes and foies gras cut in 
thin slices. Cover this with liquid aspic; when hard place 
roasted quail on jelly, cover with liquid jelly and chill. 
Decorate sides of top layer with hard-cooked white of 
egg cut in crescents. Unmold, garnish with cress, and 
serve with mayonnaise. 



ENTRtES 137 

Scalloped Veal 

Chop two cups of cold cooked veal; add one fourth tea- 
spoon salt, one fourth teaspoon onion juice, and one tea- 
spoon lemon juice. Mix one half cup finely chopped 
cooked ham, one fourth teaspoon mustard, few grains cay- 
enne, two tablespoons cracker crumbs, and moisten with 
white stock. Saute one fourth cup cracker crumbs in one 
fourth cup butter; add to chopped veal and moisten with 
white stock. 

Line a mold with slices of hard-cooked eggs, fill with 
alternate layers of ham mixture and veal. Pack tightly, 
cover with buttered paper, and steam one hour. Cool and 
serve in thin slices. 

The success of this dish depends on careful seasoning, 
and more may be needed than is given in the recipe. 

Veal Loaf 

Chop two pounds of lean veal and one fourth pound salt 
pork; add one cup cracker crumbs, three beaten eggs, one 
teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one teaspoon onion juice, 
and one tablespoon lemon juice. 

Moisten with well-flavored beef or veal stock. Press in 
buttered bread pan, cover. Baste occasionally during bak- 
ing. Bake one hour. 

Veal Croquettes 

Cut one pint veal in small pieces; add one tablespoon salt, 
one quarter teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon lemon juice. 
Melt three tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons finely 
minced onion, three tablespoons flour, and" three fourths 
cup milk or veal stock-. Boil five minutes. Add two eggs 
well beaten. Stir constantly until thick. Mix with veal 
mixtu-Ee and cool. Shape, allowing a rounding tablespoon- 



138 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

ful for each croquette. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with or without White Sauce. 

Fried Calf's Liver 

Cut three onions in pieces; saute in four tablespoons- 
buttery cover with one cup white stock; add one half tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon 
lemon juice. Cook one half hour. 

Cut liver in one half inch slices; saute in four table- 
spoons butter; add sauce; cook five minutes. 

Serve; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Boiled Tongue 

Wash and clean the tongue, cover with boiling water; 
add one fourth cup each of carrot, turnip, and onion, a 
bouquet of sweet herbs, four cloves, and two peppercorns. 
Simmer until tongue is tender. Cool in kettle, remove 
the skin, brush with melted butter, cover with buttered 
bread crumbs after placing in dripping pan. 

Bake twenty minutes, basting often with chicken stock 

or Port wine. Cool, cut in thin slices, and garnish with 

slices of buttered toast, sprinkled with finely chopped 

pimolas. 

Broiled Pig's Feet 

Boil the feet until tender, cut in halves, brush with 
melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover 
with buttered bread crumbs. Broil over a clear fira and 
serve with Piquante Sauce. 

Veal Roll 

Remove the bone f.-'om a shoulder of veal, brush with 
melted butter, and stuff with sauted mushrooms or 
sweetbreads. Cover bone broken in pieces with cold 
water; add one fourth cup each of carrot and onion, a 



entr:ees 139 

bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, four cloves, and six pep- 
percorns. Add stuffed and rolled veal, and simmer until 
tender. Cover with slices of bacon ; bake in a hot oven, 
basting often. Serve with Olive Sauce. 

Marrow Bones with Tenderloin Steak 

Cut the bones four inches long ; cover each end with a 
round of dough to keep in the marrow. 

Tie the bones in a cloth, cover with boiling water, and 
boil on» hour. Remove cloth and paste, and serve on or 
around tenderloin steak ; or the marrow may be removed 
from bone when cooked, and spread on slices of hot but- 
tered toast. Cayenne and salt are always served with 
marrow bones. 

DevUed Mignons of Beef 

Cut tenderloin steak three fourths inch thick. Cut 
and roll in rounds, broil over clear fire five minutes. 

Mix one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon Worces- 
tershire Sauce, and two tablespoons chopped pimento. 
Spread on beef, dip in fine bread crumbs, and broil until 
crumbs are brown. Serve with Bearnaise Sauce. 

Kidneys en Brochette 

Cut some lambs' kidneys in quarter-inch slices. Season 
with salt and pepper, dip in olive oil. Arrange on a 
skewer with alternating slices of bacon. 
. Dip in oil, in bread crumbs, and broil over a clear fire, 
or saute in butter. Serve with Piquante Sauce. 

Kidneys with Oysters 

Remove skin from four lambs' kidneys. Cut in two 
lengthwise. Cook two tablespoons chopped onion, one 
shallot finely chopped, four tablespoons butter, one fourth 
teaspoon salt, and a few grains cayenne, together five min- 



140 lowney's cook book 

utes. Add one cup tomato. When hot, add one cup 
oysters. Keep hot while broiling kidneys. Arrange kid- 
neys on platter and pour sauce over them. 

Creme Frite 
1 pint milk J teaspoon salt 

\ cup sugar 1-inch piece stick cinnamon 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 4 teaspoons butter 

5 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

few gratings lemon rind 

Mix yolks of eggs and sugar ; moisten the cornstarch 

with small amount of cold milk, scald the remainder ; add 

cornstarch mixture to scalded milk ; cook twenty minutes ; 

add egg mixture, butter, salt and seasonings, cook one 

minute. Pour into shallow buttered dish. Cool ; cut in" 

squares or diamonds ; dip in crumbs, Qgg and crumbs ; fry 

in deep fat. 

Calf's Heart Stuffed 

Wash heart ; fill with chicken stuffing ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; dredge with flour. Place on rack in 
dripping pan and cook in hot oven from two to three 
hours, basting while cooking, with beef stock, pork fat, 
hot water, or butter. 

Serve with Tomato Sauce or on a bed of boiled onions. 

Haricot of Ox Tails 

Cut three ox tails in four-inch pieces ; add one half cup 
carrot, one half cup onion, and four tablespoons butter. 
Cook ten minutes ; add four tablespoons flour and four 
cups water or stock. Cook one hour ; season with salt and 
pepper. Serve vegetables in the center and ox tails around 
the edge ; garnish with potato balls and parsley. 

Salmi of Game 

Cut the meat from cold cooked game. Break the 
bones and cover with cold water. Saute two tablespoons 



ENTBt!E8~ 141 

onions in four tablespoons butter and brown ; add one 

tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce and four c^ps of the 

liquor in which the bones have been cooked. Season 

with salt and pepper, color a delicate brown with kitchen • 

bouquet, add two cups cold game, simmer ten minutes. 

Serve on slices of fried bread and garnish with a potato 

border and parsley. 

Curry of Game 

Prepare the same as Salmi of Game, adding one table- 
spoon curry powder. Serve in rice border. 

Roll Croustades 

Bake bread dough in muffin pans, when cold cut off tops, 
remove soft portion leaving shell. Butter inside and out, 
and brown in the oven. Fill with any creamed mixture. 

Broiled Honeycomb Tripe 

Wash tripe and cut in pieces for serving. Cover with 
boiling water and cook until tender. Drain, wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil over a clear fire. 
Serve with maitre d'hotel butter. 

Tripe Ragoflt 

Wash one pound of tripe and cut in two-inch strips for 
serving. Saute in two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
onion, add tripe, cook ten minutes, add one cup each of ' 
tomato and celery cut into inch pieces, and simmer until 
all are tender. Serve, garnished with toast points. 

Lyonnaise Tripe 
Cook two tablespoons onion in two tablespoons butter. 
Add two cups cooked tripe cut in small strips ; cook ten 
minutes. Serve on buttered toast ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with butter and garnish with finely chopped 
parsley. 



142 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Tripe in Batter 

Cut cooked tripe in three-inch strips. Soak ten 
minutes in olive oil. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dip in Fritter Batter, and fry in deep fat. 

Baked Sweetbreads 

Soak sweetbreads in cold water ; lard ; place on slices of 
salt pork in dripping pan ; cover with milk or stock ; cook 
until tender and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Baked Fillets of Sweetbreads 
Prepare six fillets ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Arrange on slices of bacon ; dot with 
butter ; baste with cream while baking in a hot oven. 
Serve with Bechamel Sauce. 

Braised Sweetbreads 
Arrange in the bottom of a buttered baking dish one 
fourth cup each of chopped carrot, celery, onions and salt 
pork. Place parboiled sweetbreads on top of vegetables ; 
cover with stock in tightly covered dish and bake slowly 
three quarters of an hour. Remove vegetables to serving 
dish and serve sweetbreads on top of them. 

Calf's Brains in Batter 

Parboil brains ; cut in two-inch pieces. Cover with 

French Dressing. Let them stand one hour. Drain, dip 

in Fritter Batter, fry in hot fat. Serve with Tomato 

Sauce. 

Scalloped Brains 

Parboil brains ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice. Cut in inch pieces. Arrange in layers in buttered 
baking dish, alternating with Tomato Sauce. Cover with 
buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs and serve with 
chopped pickles. 



ENTBI^ES 143 

Brains Breaded 
Parboil brains and cook in muslin bag in boiling acidu- 
lated water one half hour. Drain. Cool and cut into 
four-inch pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 
Serve with Piquante or HoUandaise Sauce. 

Frogs' Legs 

Skin the frogs' legs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip 
in butter, then in flour, and fry in hot fat. Serve with 
Sauce Tartare. 

Frogs' Legs a la Bechamel 

Remove skin from legs, season with salt and pepper, 
melt four tablespoons butter, add frogs' legs and one half 
cup mushrooms, and saute. Serve on slices of buttered 
toast, with Bechamel Sauce. 

Frogs' Legs a TAUemande 

Remove skins from frogs' legs, season with salt, pepper 
and lemon juice, and cook in butter five minutes. Add 
one cup white stock, and simmer until tender. Serve on 
hot buttered toast, with AUemande Sauce. 

Oyster Crabs 
Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, two 
tablespoons chopped pimolas. Add one cup crabs and 
let simmer ten minutes. Serve in croustades. 

Oyster Crabs with Poached Eggs 

Cook oyster crabs in butter. Cut bread in slices, shape 
with doughnut cutter, toast, butter, and place in buttered 
ramekin dishes, fill the rings with cooked crabs, break an 
egg on top of each, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake 
ten to twelve minutes. 



144 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Liver Loaf 

Parboil four slices of calf's liver, remove skin, chop, 
and press through a sieve. To each cup of liver add 
one fourth cup soft bread crumbs, one tablespoon butter, 
one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon paprika, few grains 
cayenne, and two eggs. Mix well, pour into a buttered 
mold, place in a pan of hot water, and bake one hour. 
Serve hot with Vinaigrette Sauce, or it may be served 
cold as a salad. 

Mock PatI de Foie Gras 

Use the cooked liver loaf mixture. Mash, add butter 
to make of consistency to spread, arrange on rounds of 
buttered toast, and garnish with yolks of hard-cooked 
eggs pressed through a ricer, and slices of pimolas. 

Croustades 

Cut crusts from a brick loaf of bread. Scoop out cen- 
ter of loaf, leaving walls an inch thick on all sides. Brush 
with melted butter, and brown in oven ; or, omit butter 
and fry in deep fat. Brush with white of egg slightly 
beaten, and fill with any creamed mixture. Set on a bed 
of parsley and garnish with toast points. 

Small croustades may be made in the same way, by 
using thick slices of bread. 

Chicken Rissoles 

1 cup chicken forcemeat salt, pepper and onion juice 

12 pimolas, finely chopped 12 rounds of puff paste 

Mix forcemeat, chopped pimolas, salt, pepper and on- 
ion juice. Put a teaspoon of this mixture in the center of 
each puff paste round ; brush the edges with water ; fold' 
edges together, making a half round ; press edges together 
firmly ; dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 



ENTREES ' 145 

• Oyster Rissoles 

Prepare tlie same as Chicken Rissoles, and add one cup 
chopped cooked oysters. 

Sweetbread Rissoles 

Use one half rule for Chicken Rissoles. Add one cup 
sweetbreads cooked and cut in pieces, and one fourth cup 
chopped pimentoes. 

Sardine Rissoles 

Use one half rule of Chicken Rissoles. Add twelve 

boned sardines cut in pieces and two tablespoons lemon 

juice. 

Veal Rissoles 

Use rule for Chicken Forcemeat, substituting veal for 
chicken, and proceed as for Chicken Rissoles. 

Lamb Rissoles 

Use rule for Chicken Forcemeat. Add one fourth cup 
lamb and one fourth cup ham, each finely chopped, and 
proceed as with Chicken Rissoles. 

Cheese Rissoles 

I cup grated cheese J teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour cayenne 

2 egg whites cracker crumbs 

Beat whites until stiff, add other ingredients, put a 
teaspoon of this mixture on rounds of pastry, and proceed 
as for Chicken Rissoles. 

Mushroom Rissoles 

Place a teaspoon of creamed mushrooms in the center 
of a round of pastry; proceed as for Chicken Rissoles or 
instead of frying bake in a quick oven. 



146 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Lobster Rissoles 

Place a teaspoon of creamed lobster in the center of each 
round of pastry, and proceed as for Chicken Rissoles, 
baking in a quick oven instead of frying, if desired. 

Bouchles a la Macedoine 

Mix one fourth cup cold cooked chicken, one fourth cup 
mushrooms, and one fourth cup cheese. Add one fourth 
cup White Sauce, season with salt, paprika, and lemon 
juice. Fill Bouchees and serve garnished with parsley. 

Baked Chicken 

6 chicken legs J cup forcemeat 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 pint stock 

2 tablespoons butter J tablespoon salt 
1 tablespoon chopped onion 2 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

Melt butter ; add vegetables ; cook ten minutes. Re- 
move vegetables; add forcemeat, stock, salt and flour; 
cook until stiff; add yolks of eggs and lemon juice. 

Spread this mixture on the chicken legs. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, place in baking dish, and cook in hot 
oven until chickeii is tender, basting with cream. Serve 
around slices of tomato garnished with mayonnaise. 

Chicken Supreme 

3 chicken breasts 6 slices cooked tongue 
1 can mushrooms |- cup butter 

1 pint oonsonimg 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups forcemeat 1 cup Croquette Sauce 

6 truffles 

Divide each chicken breast into four fillets, separating 
the large fillet from the small fillet; brush large fillet 
with butter ; spread with forcemeat ; cover with small 
fillet score small fillet diagonally ; insert thin slices of 



ENTREES 147 

truffles in each gash. Cut slices of tongue half an inch 
larger than large fillet and place in baking dish with fillet 
on each piece. 

Mix Croquette Sauce, consomme, chopped mushrooms, 
and cook ten minutes, add more seasoning if required, and 
pour around cooked fillets. 

The fillets may be steamed until tender or cooked in the 
oven and basted with cream. 

VEGETABLE ENTREES 
Artichokes with HoUandaise Sauce 

Artichokes may be procured both canned and fresh. 

If canned, drain, wash in cold water, drain again, then 
let them stand in French Dressing for one half hour. 
Drain, dip in crumbs, &gg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat, 
or dip in Fritter Batter and saute in pork fat or butter. 
Serve with HoUandaise Sauce. 

Asparagus served in Croustades 

Cut asparagus in inch pieces and boil according to rule 
for Boiled Asparagus, drain, add one cup Thick Cream 
Sauce, and serve in bread croustades. 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

Boil one cauliflower until tender. Separate flowerets 

and chop tough parts. Arrange in buttered shells, or 

ramekins with White Sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, 

cover with buttered and seasoned crumbs, and brown in a 

quick oven. 

Celery au Jus 

Remove the tops from two bunches of celery, leaving 
the bunch about six inches long. Wash, trim, and scrape 
root to a point. Cook in salted boiling acidulated 



148 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

water five minutes. Drain. Melt three tablespoonis 
butter; add tliree tablespoons flour and a cup and a half 
of water in which celery was cooked. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a few drops of Worcestershire Sauce; add 
cooked celery and simmer thirty minutes. 

Arrange celery in center of hot dish, strain sauce over 
it, and garnish with finely chopped pimento. 

Scalloped Cucumbers 

Wash, pare, and cut into cubes three large cucumbers. 

Arrange a layer in the bottom of a buttered baking 
dish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and with one tea- 
spoon finely chopped onion, and continue thus until dish 
is filled, then add one cup milk or chicken stock, cover 
with buttered and seasoned crumbs, and bake in hot oven 

until brown. 

Bechamel Cucumbers 

Pare four cucumbers, parboil four minutes, drain and 

let them stand in ice water one half hour. Cut in thin 

slices, cover with Bechamel Sauce, cook until tender, and 

serve on buttered triangles of toasted bread. Garnish 

with olive in center of each triangle and toast points. 

Banana fried in Crumbs 
Remove skin from six bananas, cut in halves length- 
wise and crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
lemon juice, dip in flour, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper, serve on folded napkin. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve with or without 
Lemon or Sherry Sauce. 

Farina Balls or Hominy Crescents 
I cup farina or hominy 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup milk \ teaspoon paprika, 

IJ cups chicken stock few drops onion juice 

one egg 



UNTBiES 149 

Mix milk and chicken stock, add farina or hominy, and 
cook in double boiler forty minutes. Add remaining in- 
gredients, cool, shape in balls or crescents, dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Serve as an entree with a sweet sauce or as a garnish 

with game. 

Macaroni Timbales. 

Boil twelve sticks of macaroni in salted water until 
tender, cut in rings. Line thickly buttered timbale molds 
with macaroni rings. Fill center with creamed macaroni, 
creamed fish, or Welsh Rarebit mixture. Cover with 
macaroni rings. Set molds in a pan of hot water and 
bake twenty minutes. Remove from molds and serve 
with Bechamel, Allemande, or Hollandaise Sauce as an 
entree ; or line a large mold and fill with creamed mush- 
rooms, creamed sweetbreads, creamed chicken, veal or 
turkey, adding several beaten eggs to give the mixture 
right consistency. 

Prepared in this way it may be served for luncheon. 

Fritter Batter 

1 cup flour i cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

J teaspoon salt 1 tablespooii lemon juice 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt; add well-beaten eggs, 
lemon juice and milk. Beat well, strain if lumpy, and 
leave standing several hours, over night if possible. 

This recipe may be used for cooked parsnips, carrots, 
cauliflower, raw corn and nearly all fruits. 

Dip prepared vegetables or fruits in the batter, drain 
whole vegetables and fruits on a fork, fry in deep fat, 
and drain on brown paper. Mix small or chopped vege- 
tables or fruit with the batter and drop in spoonfuls into 
hot fat. 



160 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Corn Oysters 

2 cups green corn pulp 1 tablespoon butter, melted 

2 eggs \ teaspoon salt 

pepper and cayenne flour 

Cut the corn through the kernel with a sharp knife and 
remove pulp; add remaining ingredients with enough 
flour to shape into small cakes. Saute in butter or pork 
fat or fry in deep fat. 

Green Pea Timbales 
Press one pint cooked peas through a sieve ; add four 
tablespoons milk or soup stock, few drops of onion juice, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and the whites of three eggs, beaten 
until stiff. Press into buttered timbale molds, set in 
a pan of hot water, and bake in a slow oven until firm. 
Unmold, serve on hot platter. Garnish with a piece of 
parsley on the top of each timbale and Bechamel Sauce. 

Egg Plant baked in Shell 

Boil four egg plants twenty minutes. Cut in halves 
lengthwise. Scoop out center. Drain in cheese cloth. 
Mix one half cup bread crumbs, one quarter cup minced 
chicken, one quarter cup egg plant, two tablespoons but- 
ter, salt, paprika, and cayenne, and one egg. 

Fill egg plant shells with this mixture, cover with 
buttered and seasoned crumbs, and bake in a slow oven 
about one hour. 

Broiled Mushrooms 
Wash, scrub, sprinkle with salt and pepper,'twelve large 
fresh mushrooms. Broil over a clear fire. Place on 
twelve rounds of bread toasted on one side. Saute in 
two tablespoons butter, one cup chopped mushrooms; sea- 
son with salt and pepper and add one fourth cup .heavy 
cream. Reheat and pour over mushrooms on toast. 



ENTStMS 151 

Baked Mushrooms 

Wash, scrub, sprinkle with salt and pepper, twelve 
large fresh mushrooms. Remove stems, saute in butter, 
add one cup chicken stock or cream, simmer fifteen min-' 
utes. Place on rounds of bread, on a buttered platter ; 
cover and cook in oven fifteen minutes, basting once dur- 
ing cooking with melted butter. A few gratings of 
nutmeg is considered by many an improvement. 

Mushrooms with Oysters 

Wash, scrub, and remove stems of twelve large fresh 
mushrooms. Saute in butter five minutes. Place on 
rounds of buttered toast, gills upward; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dot with butter. Decorate each with 
an oyster and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake fif- 
teen minutes in a hot oven, basting every five minutes 

with hot butter. 

Deviled Mushrooms 

Mix one teaspoon mustard, few grains cayenne, one tea- 
spoon Worcestershire Sauce, and half teaspoon paprika. 
Cover Broiled Mushrooms with this mixture and serve 

on slices of toast. 

Scalloped Mushrooms 

Wash, scrub, and peel one pound of fresh mushrooms. 

Saute in butter. Arrange in layers with White Sauce in 

buttered baking dish; when filled cover with cubes of 

bread which have been dipped in butter. Brown in the 

oven and serve. 

Mushrooms with Tomatoes 

Wash, scrub, and peel one half pound of fresh mush- 
rooms. Break in small pieces and saute in butter. Wash 
and remove skins from six tomatoes. 

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers with sauted mush- 
rooms in buttered baking dish or in ramekins. Cover 



152 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

with Tomato Sauce, well seasoned with onion. When 
dish is filled sprinkle with buttered cracker crumbs and 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

Mushroom Pot Pourri 

Cut in slices one lamb's kidney. Saute in melted but- 
ter. Remove from butter, and saute twelve mushrooms, 
cleaned and cut in slices. Melt two tablespoons butter; 
add two tablespoons flour, one and one half cups tomato, 
few drops of onion juice, one and one half teaspoon Wor- 
cestershire Sauce, one half teaspoon salt, and few grains 
pepper. Cook ten minutes; add mushrooms and kidney, 
and cook until kidney is tender. 

Serve in center of hot platter, and garnish with hot 
cooked rice or with macaroni with Cream Sauce. 

Sweetbreads, chicken, or veal may be substituted for 
kidney, but make a much more expensive dish. 

Baked Onions in Ramekins 

Peel and parboil twelve medium-sized onions; drain; 
chop. Melt two tablespoons butter; add two tablespoons 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one and one quarter cups 
cream, or chicken stock, four tablespoons soft bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon finely chopped parsley. Boil five 
minutes; add one egg well beaten and the chopped onion. 
Cool slightly; add the beaten whites of two eggs; add 
more seasoning if needed and bake in buttered ramekin 
dishes twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Potato Croquettes 

Mix two cups hot mashed potato, two tablespoons but- 
ter, one teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon paprika, few 
grains of cayenne and celery salt, two teaspoons chopped 



ENTB'iES 153 

parsley, few drops onion juice. Beat well; add two egg 
yolks; form into croquettes; dip in flour, egg, and crumbs; 
fry in deep fat; drain on brown paper and serve. 

These croquettes may be formed into the shape of a ball, 
then shaped like a cup, and filled with any creamed mix- 
ture; coyer the top of cup with mashed potato. Dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. These are 
known as Surprise Croquettes. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Cut the tops from eight red or green peppers; remove 
seeds; cover with boiling water; leave standing five min- 
utes. Fill with any of the following stuffings. Cover 
with buttered bread crumbs, arrange in baking dish, and 
bake one half hour. 

Tomato Stuffing for Peppers 

Mix one cup tomato pulp drained from juice, one half 
cup bread crumbs, and one cup stock ; add two tablespoons 
flour and two tablespoons butter which have been cooked 
together. Season with salt, cayenne, paprika and onion 
juice. 

Chicken Stuffing for Peppers 

Chicken Stuffing, prepared in the same way as Tomato 
Stuffing, substituting chicken for tomato. 

Rice or Macaroni Stuffing for Peppers 

Cook one cup rice or macaroni in chicken stock until 
tender; add one fourth cup onion finely chopped, two 
tablespoons red pepper fi-uely chopped, two tablespoons 
melted butter, four tablespoons finely chopped mushrooms. 
Season with salt and pepper. In filling add more chicken 
stock or hot water if necessary. 



154 lowney'b cook book 

Rice Croquettes 

Cook one cup of rice in two cups of water or chicken 
stock in a double boiler until tender, and the liquid is 
absorbed. Season with salt, pepper and onion juice; add 
four tablespoons butter and two egg yolks. 

Cool, form in croquettes, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Rice and Tomato Croquettes 

Cook two tablespoons chopped onion in two tablespoons 
butter five minutes; add one tablespoon red pepper, sprig 
parsley, four cloves, and one and one half cups tomato; 
cook five minutes. Add one cup water or chicken stock, 
pour into double boiler, add one half cup washed rice, and 
cook until rice is tender and liquid absorbed. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprika; add two egg yolks and 
four tablespoons grated cheese. 

Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. 

Sweet Rice Croquettes 

Cook one cup rice in two cups milk in double boiler, 
until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender ; add one fourth 
cup sugar and one half teaspoon salt. Cool, add two egg 
yolks, shape in form of nests, dip in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat, hollow downward. Drain on 
brown paper; fill nests with cubes of Jelly. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Cook one cup rice with one cup each of stock and 
tomato; when tender saute in four tablespoons butter, 
season with salt and paprika. Serve hot on buttered 
toast. 



entb6es 156 

Tomato Croquettes 

Mix two cups tomato, four cloves, two slices onion, two 
peppercorns, one half teaspoon salt and one fourth tea- 
spoon paprika. Cook ten minutes and press through a 
sieve. Melt three tablespoons butter; add one fourth cup 
cornstarch and strained tomato mixture; boil ten minutes. 
Cool slightly, add one egg, pour into buttered pan, chill, 
cut in squares, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve. 



CHAPTER X 
BREAD 

Yeast 

6 pared potatoes J cup sugar 

J cup hops I cup salt 

2 quarts water 1 cup yeast, or 1 yeast cake 

Boil water and hops five minutes. Strain; add grated 
potatoes; boil five minutes; add sugar and salt; when luke- 
warm add yeast or yeast cake which has been dissolved 
in one fourth cup lukewarm water; let rise for six hours; 
pour into scalded stone jug; cork tightly; keep in cool 
place. 

Milk Bread 

2 cups scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon lard ^ cup yeast, or ^ yeast cake 

1 tablespoon butter 6 cups flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Put butter, lard, sugar and salt in mixijtg bowl. Add 
scalded milk. Dissolve yeast cake in one fourth cup 
lukewarm water. Add to milk mixture when lukewarm. 
Add flour, knead until smooth. Cover tightly and let 
rise until double its bulk, in temperature of sixty-eight 
degrees. 

Knead; shape into loaves or biscuit; let rise in pans 
until double its bulk. Bake in hot oven: biscuit twenty 
to thirty minutes, loaves sixty minutes. This bread may 
be made without kneading by omitting one cup flour and 
beating ten minutes. 

156 



BREAD 157 

Water Bread 
Substitute water for milk in Milk Bread. 

Milk and Water Bread 

Use one cup water and one cup milk, and proceed as for 
Milk Bread. 

Graham Bread 

2 cups milk scalded J yeast cake 

\ cup molasses \ cup lukewarm water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups white flour 

4 cups graham flour 

Mix milk, molasses and salt. When lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake, sifted white and graham flour. Beat 
well. 

Let rise until almost double its bulk, beat again, place 

in buttered bi'cad pans or shape in biscuit, let rise, and 

bake in an oven which is a little cooler than for white 

bread, — loaves one and one quarter hours and biscuit thirty 

minutes. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

2 cups scalded milk \ yeast cake 

\ cup sugar, or \ cup lukewarm water 

J cup molasses IJ teaspoons salt 

5 cups sifted entire wheat 

Mix milk, sugar or molasses, and salt. When luke- 
warm add dissolved yeast and flour. Beat well, let rise 
until double its bulk, beat, let rise in buttered bread pans 
until double its bulk, and bake one hour in moderately 
hot oven, or bake in gem pans thirty minutes. 

Rye Bread 

2 cups scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter ^ yeast cake * 

1 tablespoon sugar | cup lukewarm water 

3 cups flour 3 cups rye 



158 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Put butter, sugar and salt in mixing bowl ; add scalded 
milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and white 
flour. 

Let rise until of spongy consistency; add rye flour and 
knead. Let rise again, shape into loaves or rolls. Rise 
again and bake the same as Graham Bread. 

Gluten Bread 

2 cups boiling water 1 egg 

2 cups scalded milk \ yeast cake 

2 teaspoons butter \ cup warm water 

2 teaspoons salt 3 cups gluten 

Mix water, milk, salt and butter. When lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake, egg well beaten, and gluten. 
Let rise, when spongy beat well, add enough more gluten 
to shape. Knead, let rise, shape in loaves, let rise, and 
bake one hour. 

Date Bread 

Add one cup chopped dates to Graham or entire Wheat 
Bread. 

Walnut or Filbert Bread 

Add two cups chopped nuts to Graham or Entire Wheat 
Bread, just before putting into pans. 

Raised Brown Bread 

2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 yeast cake \ teaspoon soda 

2 cups rye \ cup lukewarm water 
i cup molasses 2 cups boiling water 

Pour boiling water on corn meal. When lukewarm 
add dissolved yeast cake and remaining ingredients. 
Beat well, let it rise over night, beat and pour into a 
buttered brown-bread tin. Bake in moderate oven from 
one and one half to two hours. 



BREAD 159 



Buns 



4 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk ^ yeast cake 

J cup sugar i cup lukewarm water 

I cup butter 3 eggs 

Mix salt, sugar, butter and milk. When lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake, yolks well beaten, whites well 
beaten and flour. Knead thoroughly; let rise over night ; 
knead, roll into flat cake, fold in three pieces. Knead 
and fold in this way four separate times. Add one cup 
cleaned currants. Cut off small pieces, shape into rolls, 
and brush with butter; let rise. Bake in a moderate 
oven thirty minutes ; brush with molasses or sugar dis- 
solved in milk ; return to the oven to dry. 

Brioche 



4 cups flour 


1 yeast cake 


1 teaspoon salt 


I cup lukewarm water 


2 tablespoons sugar 


8 eggs 


|- cup butter 


1 cup milk 



Scald milk; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake; 
add remaining ingredients and beat well for one half 
hour. Let rise to double its bulk ; cut down ; keep in ice 
box over night; in the morning, shape. 

For Coffee Cakes, make into biscuit, then into finger 
shapes, twist ends in opposite directions, shape in crescents, 
let rise in pan. Bake in moderate oven. Brush with 
confectioners' sugar dissolved in boiling water. 

This mixture may be used for Buns. 

Parker House Rolls 

2 cups scalded milk ^ cup butter melted 

J yeast cake 2 tablespoons sugar 

J cup lukewarm water 1 teaspoon salt 
flour 



160 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Mix scalded milk when cool, with dissolved yeast cake. 
Add two cups flour ; beat thoroughly and let rise. 

When spongy add remaining ingredients and flour to 

knead. Knead; let rise; when double its bulk, shape into 

balls ; lay on buttered sheet ; cover with dripping pan. 

When risen to double their bulk, press with floured 

handle of spoon almost dividing the biscuit. Brush one 

half with butter; press the two halves together; place on 

buttered tin ; let rise. Bake when light ten to fifteen 

minutes. 

Braids 

Use Parker House Roll mixture ; make in small balls ; 

roll balls into long sticks ; fasten three ends together and 

braid. Cut braids into four-inch lengths ; let rise ; bake. 

When done brush with melted butter. 

Crescents 

Shape Parker House Roll mixture into balls then into 

sticks. Roll sticks in shape of crescents, let rise, and 

bake. 

Bread Sticks 

1 cup scalded milk J yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar J cixp lukewarm water 

J cup butter 1 egg white 

1 teaspoon salt 3 to 4 cups flour 

Mix butter, sugar, salt and milk. When dissolved, 
add yeast cake, white of egg well beaten, and enough flour 
to knead. Let rise to double its bulk, knead, shape, let 
rise again, and bake in hot oven. 

Swedish Rolls 

2 cups milk 2 teaspoons salt 
I yeast cake I cup sugar 

J cup lukewarm water 1 cup currants 

4 eggs 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

J cup butter flour to knead 

I cup chopped citron 



BJRJEAn 161 

Melt butter in scalded milk ; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast, salt, eggs well beaten and flour to knead. 
Let rise ; roll into a sheet ; brush with melted butter ; 
dredge with cinnamon and sugar ; sprinkle with citron 
and currants ; roll like jelly roll; cut in cue half inch 
slices ; place on buttered sheet ; let rise. Bake one half 

hour. 

Raised Muffins 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup melted butter ^ yeast cake 

J cup sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

2 eggs 3 to 4 cups flour 

Mix milk, butter, sugar and salt ; when lukewarm, add 

dissolved yeast and enough flour to make a drop batter. 

Let rise over night. In morning add eggs, yolks and 

whites beaten separately. Place buttered muiiin rings on 

buttered griddle or dripping pan ; fill rings two thirds full, 

and cook on griddle on top of stove or in dripping pan in 

oven. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

1 cup scalded mUk J teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold cooked oatmeal ^ yeast cake 

J cup sugar or i cup lukewarm water 

J cup molasses 2 to 3 cups flour 

Mix oatmeal, scalded milk, sugar and salt. When luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake. Add flour to make a stiff 
batter ; beat five minutes. Let rise over night. Beat and 
fill buttered gem pans, one half full ; let rise; and bake in 
moderate oven one half hour. 

Rusk 

To one half the rule for Milk Bread, add two eggs well 
beaten. Shape in small balls ; place close together in 
baking pan; let rise until very light; brush with sugar 
dissolved in water ; sprinkle with sugar. Bake. 

Rusks must be very light before being baked. 



162 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Zweibach 

Cut rusks into slices one half inch thick. Dry in oven 
until a golden brown. 

Pulled Bread 

Remove the crust from a loaf of bread and tear the 
crust in pieces. Place in oven and dry until crisp all 
through. 

Five-hour Bread 

Use any of the recipes for bread, using one yeast cake 
instead of amount of yeast given. The bread should be 
made and baked in five hours' time. 

Squash Bread 
Add one cup stewed and sifted squash to Milk Bread, 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons lard or | to 1 cup milk or 

1 tablespoon butter and 1 half milk and half water 
tablespoon lard 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add shortening and 
chop with knife until mealy. Add milk gradually until a 
soft spongy dough. Turn on to a floured board ; toss with 
knife until whole surface is floured ; pat lightly with roll- 
ing pin until one half inch thick. Cut in rounds and bake 
immediately on buttered sheet in quick oven, about 
twelve minutes. 

Drop Biscuit 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit, using enough 
milk to make a drop batter. 

Drop into buttered muf&n pans and bake in hot oven. 



BREAD 163 

Fruit Biscuit 

Roll Baking Powder Biscuit mixture to one fourth 
inch ; brush with melted butter ; sprinkle with cinnamon 
and sugar and chopped raisins and citron. 

Roll like a jelly roll; cut in one half inch pieces ; place 
on buttered tin ; brush with melted butter ; sprinkle with 
brown sugar. Bake in hot oven. 

Egg Muffins 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

3 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, 
butter and milk. Beat well ; cut and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn into gem pans; bake in hot oven 
ten to fifteen minutes. Three tablespoons sugar may be 
added if desired. 

Sally Lunn 

Use recipe for Egg Muffins, using three eggs instead 
of two, and bake in cake pan instead of muffin pan. 

Berry Muffins 

I cup butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1 egg 1 cup berries 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolk well beaten, flour mixed 
and sifted with dry ingredients, milk, whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff, and berries. Bake in buttered muffin 
pans or in buttered cake pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Use rule for Egg Muffins. Spread mixture one half 
inch thick on buttered pans. Lay apples cut into eighths 
in two rows on top of dough. Sprinkle with sugar ; bake 



164 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

in hot oven thirty minutes. Serve with lemon sauce or 

as a tea cake. 

Corn Muffins 

1 cup corn meal I cup butter 

1 cup flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

J cup sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolks well beaten, flour mixed 
and sifted with corn meal, baking powder and salt, milk 
and beaten whites. Bake in buttered muffin tins twenty- 
five minutes in hot oven. 

A very good muffin may be made by using only two 
tablespoons butter and one egg. 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

1 cup entire wheat or graham flour J teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar, or 1 egg 

2 tablespoons molasses IJ cups milk 

4 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, and combine in order 

given. Bake in hot muffin pans twenty to twenty-five 

minutes. 

Rye Muffins 

1 cup rye flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup white flour J cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 
legg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents ; beat well. Bake in hot gem pans twenty to thirty 

minutes. 

Hominy and Corn Muffins 

J cup corn meal I cup hominy 

1 cup scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder J cup boiling water 
2 eggs 



BREAD 165 

Cook hominy, salt, butter and boiling water twenty 
minutes. Cool. Scald corn meal with hot milk, add 
sugar and hominy, yolks of eggs ; beat well ; add baking 
powder and beaten whites of eggs. Bake in hot buttered 
gem pans twenty to thirty minutes. 

Rice and Com Muffins 

1 cup com meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup cold cooked rice J cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix corn meal, salt and baking powder ; add rice and 
work with fingers until well blended. Add egg well 
beaten, milk and butter. Beat well. Pour into hot but- 
tered gem pans, and bake one half hour. 

Spider Corn Cake 

I cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup flour i teaspoon soda 

I cup sugar 2 eggs 

^ cup sour cream J cup sweet milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients twice ; add well-beaten egg 
and cream; beat well. Butter an agate pan ; heat very hot; 
pour in mixture ; pour milk on top. Bake thirty minutes. 

Popovers 

1 cup flour I teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

Mix all ingredients and beat five minutes. Pour into 

hissing hot buttered gem pans and bake in hot oven twenty 

minutes. 

Fried Rye Muffins 

I cup rye meal 2 eggs 

f cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

i cup milk I teaspoon salt 

J cup molasses 



166 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add remaining ingredi- 
ents ; beat well. Drop from a spoon into hot fat. Fry 

like doughnuts. 

Oat Muffins 

1 cup warm oatmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour \ cup milk 
\ cup sugar 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 to 4 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, salt; add oatmeal and 

work until well mixed. Add remaining ingredients. 

Beat well. Bake in hot buttered gem pans twenty 

minutes. 

SHORTCAKES 

Shortcake 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons butter 
\ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons lard 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add butter and lard 

and chop until thoroughly blended. Add milk. When 

thoroughly mixed, divide in halves ; put each half into a 

round, buttered cake tin. Flour hand and pat to fit the 

tin. Bake ten to twelve minutes in hot oven. Separate 

the upper portions from the lower portions of each cake 

with a fork — never cut with a knife. Spread with 

butter, fill with filling, and arrange in layers, with filling 

between. 

Orange Shortcake 

Peel oranges, cut in slices. Sweeten to taste and use 
for filling for shortcake. 

Peach Shortcake 

Peel, cut in slices, and sweeten three cups of peaches. 
Add two tablespoons lemon juice, spread between layers 
of shortcake. Garnish top layer with peaches and beaten 
cream. 



BREAD 167 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Hull, cut in pieces, and sweeten two boxes of straw- 
berries. Let them stand several hours. Arrange between 
layers of shortcake and garnish top with whole straw- 
berries and beaten and sweetened cream. 

Raspberry, Blackberry, and Pineapple may be made in 
a similar way. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

Mix in order given, beat well. Heat a griddle ; when 
hissing hot, grease with piece of salt pork on end of fork. 
Drop a tablespoon of batter from tip end of spoon on hot 
griddle. When full of bubbles, turn ; when cooked on 
both sides, serve on hot plate. 

If sour milk is very rich, the eggs may be omitted. 

Graham Griddle Cakes 

1 cup graham 2 teaspoons baking powder 

i cup flour 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar IJ cups milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Scald milk, and pour on to graham flour. When cold, 

add remaining ingredients ; beat well and cook as Griddle 

Cakes. 

Bread Griddle Cakes 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 cup flour 
2 cups scalded milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Pour milk on to bread crumbs and let stand several 
hours. Add dry ingredients, mixed and sifted, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and cook as Griddle Cakes. 



168 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

1 cup cooked rice 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk scalded 1 tablespoon sugar 

1\ cups flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Pour scalded milk on to rice ; let stand over night. 
Add dry ingredients, eggs well beaten, and last of all, cold 
milk. Beat well and cook as Grriddle Cakes. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes 

Substitute hominy for boiled rice, and cook as Rice 
Griddle Cakes. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

li cups flour or entire wheat 1 cup milk 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add yolks well beaten, 
milk, whites well beaten, and melted butter. Cook as 
Griddle Cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

2 cups buckwheat J yeast cake 

\ cup corn meal or white flour \ cup lukewarm water 
1 teaspoon salt 2 cups warm water 

\ cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

Mix buckwheat, corn meal, and salt ; add dissolved yeast 
cake, molasses, and water ; beat well. Let rise over night. 
In the morning beat, add soda, beat, and fry. 

A pitcher is the most convenient dish for raising these 

cakes. 

Flannel Cakes 

\\ cups Indian meal 4 tablespoons butter 

1\ cups flour \ yeast cake dissolved in one 

1 teaspoon salt quarter cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 cups scalded milk 



BREAD 169 

Scald meal with milk ; add butter, and when lukewarm, 
add remaining ingredients ; let mixture rise over night. 
In the morning cook as Griddle Cakes. 

Waffles 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons melted butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder IJ cups milk 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Sift dry ingredients ; add yolks well beaten, milk, butter 
and stiffly beaten whites. Beat well and cook on hot 
waffle iron. The waffle iron should be heated fifteen or 
twenty minutes before using and greased thoroughly with 
salt pork fat. 

FRITTERS 

Batter for Fruit Fritters 

1 cup flour grated rind 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

J teaspoon salt J cup milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients ; add beaten yolks, 
lemon rind, and milk. Beat, cut, and fold in the beaten 
whites of eggs and use for all kinds of fruits. 

Apple Fritters 

Core and pare apples, cut in round slices. For each 
eight apples, mix one fourth cup sugar and four table- 
spoons lemon juice. Let apples stand in this mixture for 
one hour ; dip in fritter batter ; fry in hot fat ; drain on 
brown paper. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Banana Fritters 

Remove skins from four bananas. Cut each one in 
four equal parts. Sprinkle with four tablespoons sugar, 
four tablespoons lemon juice, or wine, and let stand one 



170 LOWNMT'S COOK BOOK 

hour. Dip in fritter batter; fry in deep fat; drain on 
brown paper. Serve. 

Orange, Peach, and Pear Fritters 
Are all made in the same way as Banana Fritters. 

Cumquat Fritters 

Wash cumquats; cut in halves; let stand in fritter 
batter one hour ; fry in deep fat ; drain on brown paper. 

Corn Fritters 

1 cup corn few grains cayenne 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

2 teaspoons salt J cup milk 

1 tablespoon olive oil 

Beat egg ; add remaining ingredients. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into deep fat. Fry six to eight minutes. Drain and 
serve hot. Canned corn may be used if fresh corn is not 
available. 

Cauliflower Fritters 

Separate the flowerets of cold, cooked cauliflower. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper; dip in olive oil, then in 
fritter batter; fry in deep fat. 

Celery, Parsnip, and Salsify Fritters 

Cut cold, cooked vegetables in small pieces. Prepare 
the sauce as Cauliflower Fritters. 

Tomato Fritters 

3 cups tomatoes 3 tablespoons chopped onion 

bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons chopped red pepper 

4 tablespoons butter | cup cornstarch 
4 cloves 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 



BREAD 171 

Melt butter; add onion and pepper, cook five minutes; 
add cornstarch, tomatoes, cloves, bay leaf and salt. Cook 
until thick. Strain. Add beaten egg. Cool in buttered 
tin. Cut in any shape desired. Dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Shell Fritters 

2 cups flour J teaspoon salt 

1 cup water grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

i cup sugar 5 eggs 

J cup butter 1 tablespoon flavoring 

Mix butter, fruit juice, rind and water; boil two 
minutes. Add sugar and flour. Beat until mixture 
leaves sides of pan. Cool. Add eggs, one at a time, and 
beat five minutes between each addition. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot fat and fry ten to twelve minutes. Drain 
on brown paper, sprinkle with sugar, and serve with 
chocolate, caramel, orange, or wine sauce. 



CHAPTER XI 
SALADS 

SALAD DRESSING 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. i 

Success in making a mayonnaise dressing generally 
depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

I teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard J teaspoon paprika 

Mix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolks 
well, and add to seasonings; beat until mixture is thick. 
Add olive oil, drop by drop, for the first four tablespoons, 
then more rapidly until oil is used, thinning as needed 
with lemon juice and vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 

yolks of two hard-cooked J teaspoon paprika 

eggs few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

IJ cups olive oil 1 raw egg yolk 

Mash hard-cooked yolks; add raw yolk, salt, mustard, 
paprika and cayenne. Stir until well blended; add four 
tablespoons oil, drop by drop, then the remainder by tea- 
spoonfuls, thinning by adding lemon juice and vinegar as 
the mixture becomes too thick to handle. 

172 



SALADS 173 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 3 

Use same ingredients as Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2, 
omitting yolk of raw egg, and using one whole egg. 

Mayonnaise Cream Dressing 

Add one half cup cream beaten until stiff to Mayonnaise 

Dressing No. 1. 

Butter Salad Dressing 

J cup butter few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons salt J cup vinegar 

2 teaspoons mustard 3 eggs 

Melt butter; add flour, mustard, salt, cayenne and milk. 

Cook in double boiler five minutes. Pour on to the beaten 

eggs; add vinegar, and cook in double boiler until mixture 

thickens. 

French Dressing No. i 

IJ teaspoons salt J teaspoon paprika 

I teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons oil 

few grains cayenne 3 tablespoons vinegar 

Rub bowl with onion; mix salt, pepper, cayenne; add 

paprika, oil and vinegar. Stir with a piece of ice. 

French Dressing No. 2 

^ teaspoon mustard few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt | teaspoon finely minced onion 

J teaspoon paprika 6 tablespoons oil 

2 tablespoons vinegar 
Mix onion, salt, mustard, paprika and cayenne. Mash 
until of a creamy consistency; add oil and vinegar alter- 
nately, beating all the time. 

French Dressing No. 3 
1 teaspoon mustard few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

J teaspoon paprika 6 tablespoons oil 

Mix the dry ingredients; add lemon juice and oil alter- 
nately, and beat until quite thick. 



174 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Cream Dressing 

3 egg yolks hard cooked 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 

\ teaspoon cayenne IJ cups thick cream 

Mash the yolks; add salt, vinegar and mustard. Beat 
the cream until stiff; add the beaten cream, little at a time, 
to the egg mixture; when stiff, add cayenne. 

Boiled Dressing 

3 tablespoons butter | teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon mustard 8 egg yolks 

J cup hot vinegar 

Cream butter; add seasonings and hot milk; pour on to 
the egg yolks. Cook in double boiler until thick; add 
vinegar, strain, and serve. 

Boiled Cream Dressing 

i cup butter 3 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon mustard J cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon paprika 1 cup cream 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings, egg and vinegar; cook 
until thick; add beaten cream. Beat well, chill, and serve. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

3 eggs I tablespoon mustard 
1 tablespoon oil IJ cups milk 

1 tablespoon salt f cup vinegar 

Beat eggs slightly; add gradually oil, salt and mustard ; 
when smooth, add vinegar, then milk. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. 

Horse-radish Cream Dressing 

4 tablespoons grated horse-radish ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons vinegar J cup cream 



SALAD8 175 

Beat cream until stiff; add remaining ingredients and 
serve. 

Horse-radish Cream Dressing No. 2 

J cup grated horse-radish 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons vinegar ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 cup cream 

Beat cream until stiff. Add remaining ingredients, 
and serve. 

SALADS 
Aspic Jelly Salad 
Serve small molds of aspic jelly on crisp lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with curled celery; marinate with French 
dressing, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

Butter Bean Salad 

2 cups cold butter beans 2 hard-cooked eggs 
French di-essing parsley- 
Cream dressing few drops onion juice 

Cover beans with French dressing and let stand one 

half hour. Drain, sprinkle with onion juice, mix with 

cream dressing. Arrange on serving dish and garnish 

with slices of hard-cooked eggs, cut lengthwise, and 

parsley. 

^ •' Beet Salad 

6 cooked beets French dressing 

parsley 4 hard-cooked eggs 

Cut beets in cubes; marinate with French dressing; let 
stand one hour. Chop the whites of the eggs until fine; 
press yolks through a sieve. Arrange beets on salad dish 
in a mound. Garnish base of mound with alternating 
rows of white and yolk of egg, and parsley. 

Lima Bean Salad 
Prepare, dress, and garnish the same as Butter Bean 
Salad. 



176 lownmt's cook book 

Celery Salad 

Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces, one bunch of 
celery, using the top leaves and upper part of stalks for 
garnishing. Cut the stalks in two-inch pieces and curl 
both ends. Mix the celery with mayonnaise dressing; 
let it stand in the ice chest one half hour. Garnish with 
mayonnaise, curled celery, and celery leaves. 

Cabbage Salad No. i 

Mix one cup and a half of cabbage and one cup and a 
half of celery; add one tablespoon chopped onion, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce, and one cup boiled dress- 
ing. Chill and serve. 

Cabbage Salad No. 2 

Remove the center from a heavy white cabbage, leaving 

a shell. Shred center and mix' with cream dressing or 

mayonnaise. Chill, fill cabbage shell, arrange on a thick 

bed of parsley, and garnish top of shell with a border of 

parsley. 

Cauliflower Salad 

Marinate one cup cold boiled cauliflower with a French 

dressing. Drain, add boiled dressing. Chill. Serve 

on bed of water cress and sprinkle with grated Edam 

cheese. 

Cherry Salad 

Remove stones from two cups cherries. To cherries 

add one cup chopped English walnuts, one cup chopped 

celery, and three fourths cup mayonnaise. Chill, arrange 

in lettuce nests, and garnish with one whole cherry on top 

of each nest. 

Cheese Salad No. i 

Mix two cream cheeses with one cup walnut meat. 
Moisten with cream ; shape into balls. Chill. Marinate 



SALADS 177 

two heads of lettuce; arrange in nests; place five balls in 
each nest; sprinkle with finely chopped and dried parsley. 
Pass French dressing with this salad. 

Cheese Salad No. 2 

Mix two cream cheeses with one half cup chopped 
pimento. Season with salt and cayenne; moisten with 
cream. Line a shallow baking pan with paraffin paper; 
press cheese mixture in this pan to the depth of one inch; 
cover with paraffin paper, and put under pressure, on ice. 
When thoroughly chilled, cut in squares; arrange on 
lettuce leaves; garnish with strips of pimento, radiating 
from the center. Pass French dressing with this salad. 

Chestnut Salad No. i 

Cut two cups of boiled chestnuts in small pieces. Add 
two cups oranges, cut in small pieces, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, and one cup mayonnaise. Chill, serve on 
lettuce, and garnish with grated orange rind. 

Chestnut Salad No. 2 

Mix two cups boiled chestnuts, one cup celery, and one 
half cup sour cherries, with one cup cream dressing. 
Chill and serve on water cress. Garnish with cherries, 
walnuts and dressing. 

Chicken Salad No. i 

Mix two cups chicken meat cut in small pieces, two 
cups celery, also cut in small pieces. Marinate with 
French dressing. Chill. Arrange in salad bowl. Mask 
with mayonnaise and decorate with hard-cooked eggs, cut 
in slices, capers, and mayonnaise pressed through a 
pastry bag and tube. 



178 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Chicken Salad No. 2 
Mix one cup each, cold cooked chicken cut in pieces, 
cucumber cut in cubes, and celery cut in pieces. Marinate 
with French dressing. Chill, drain, mix with one half 
cup mayonnaise. Arrange in salad bowl; garnish with 
pimolas, yolks of eggs put through a strainer, whites of 
eggs chopped fine, mayonnaise, and curled celery. 

Chiffonade Salad 
Cut celery into one-inch pieces, and pieces into straws, 
until one cup is obtained. Remove the pulp from grape 
fruit, making one cup. Remove the skin, and slice four 
medium-sized tomatoes. Break chicory leaves into pieces 
for serving. Marinate all separately with French dressing. 
Arrange in separate mounds on a serving dish. Garnish 
each with chopped chives, green peppers cut in strips, and 
parsley. Pass French and mayonnaise dressing. 

Chicory Salad 
Separate leaves; marinate with French dressing. Serve 

crisp and cold. 

Cucumber Salad No. i 

Cut four cucumbers in strips, lengthwise, then in half- 
inch pieces. Add one cup sweetbreads cooked, and cut in 
small pieces. Mix with cream dressing, chill, and serve 

on crisp lettuce. 

Cucumber Salad No. 2 

Cut six small cucumbers in slices, not quite severing 

them. Cover with French dressing, chill, and serve one 

to each person. 

Cucumber Salad No. 3 

Mix one cup each of cucumber cut in cubes, cooked 
oysters cut in pieces, and celery cut in pieces. Add one 
cup cream dressing. Chill. Arrange on lettuce leaves in 
salad bowl. 



SALADS 179 

Crab Salad 

Marinate two cups crab meat with French dressing. 
Drain ; add one half cup mayonnaise dressing ; arrange in 
crab shells. Chill. Garnish with pimolas and mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Egg Salad 

Cut six hard-cooked eggs in slices, crosswise. Cut twelve 

radishes in crosswise slices. Marinate each, and arrange in 

layers on a bed of lettuce. Garnish with cream dressing 

and radish roses. 

Egg Salad No. 2 

Cut six eggs in halves, lengthwise ; remove yolks ; add an 

equal amount of cold cooked ham, chopped ; moisten with 

cream dressing, return to whites, and serve on a bed of water 

cress, chicory, or shredded lettuce. Pass cream dressing 

with this salad. 

Egg Salad No. 3 

Remove the yolks from six hard-cooked eggs, leaving 

the whites in rings. Mash yolks ; add an equal amount of 

cold cooked veal or lamb, cut in small pieces. Moisten 

with French dressing ; add one teaspoon chopped chives; 

shape into balls; and arrange on bed of lettuce. Garnish 

with white egg rings. 

Endive Salad 

Marinate leaves of endive with French dressing. Chill 
one hour, and serve crisp. Sprinkle with chopped chives. 

Escarole Salad 

Prepare the same as Endive Salad, and sprinkle with 
finely chopped green peppers. 

Lettuce Salad No. i 

Separate the leaves from two heavy heads of lettuce. 
Wash, drain, chill ; marinate with French dressing. Chill ; 



180 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

replace in former shape, making one head out of the two, 
having all green leaves on the outside. 

Lettuce Salad No. 2 

Remove leaves from lettuce. Wash, drain, and dry. 
Place leaves together, roll, and cut in narrow ribbons. 
Marinate with French dressing. Arrange in nests, with 
a tablespoon of mayonnaise in each nest. 

Lobster Salad Wo. i 

Marinate four cups lobster in French dressing. Chill, 
drain, mix with one cup mayonnaise dressing, and arrange 
on white lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise and 
pounded lobster coral. 

Lobster Salad No. 2 

Mix two cups lobster meat with four hard-cooked eggs, 
chopped fine. Marinate with French dressing. Drain ; 
add mayonnaise ; serve on lettuce ; garnish with chopped 
olives, and sprinkle with finely chopped chives. 

Lobster Salad No. 3 

Mix equal parts of cucumbers cut in cubes, lobster cut 
in pieces, tomatoes cut in pieces, with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Chill ; arrange on lettuce leaves ; garnish with alter- 
nate slices of tomatoes and cucumbers ; and mayonnaise 
dressing put through the pastry bag and tube. 

Macedoine Salad 

One cup each of string beans, green peas, carrots and 
celery. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and marinate with 
French dressing. Chill one hour. Arrange in mounds on 
salad dish, and separate mounds with cold cooked cauli- 
flower, which has been separated and marinated. 



SALADS 181 

Any combination of cold cooked vegetables may be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Onion Salad 

Peel six Bermuda onions. Slice, and let them stand one 
hour in ice water. Drain, sprinkle with sugar, and mari- 
nate with French dressing. Serve ice cold on cress. 

Potato Salad No. i 

Cut raw potatoes in balls with French vegetable cut- 
ter. Cook three cups of these balls with one sliced onion 
in boiling salted water until tender. Chill, marinate with 
French dressing, cover with boiled dressing, arrange on 
salad dish. Sprinkle with chopped chives, and garnish 
with a daisy made of hard-cooked eggs, cut lengthwise. 

Potato Salad No. 2 

Marinate one cup each of cold cooked potatoes, cut in 
dice, cold cooked turnip, also cut in dice, and cold cooked 
beets, finely chopped. Arrange in salad dish, separating 
each vegetable with small leaves of parsley. 

Rice and Vegetable Salad 

Mix one cup each of celery, carrots and rice. Mari- 
nate all separately with French dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves in shape of a mound, having rice at the 
bottom and carrots at the top. Garnish with spoonfuls 
of mayonnaise on the lettuce. 

Sardine Salad 

Remove bones from one dozen sardines; mix four hard- 
cooked eggs finely chopped, twelve pimolas finely chopped, 
and three pickles finely chopped. Marinate with a 
French dressing. Serve sardines on lettuce and dot 
over them spoonfuls of the egg mixture. 



182 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Salmon Salad No. i 

Prepare the same as Lobster Salad No. 1. 

Salmon Salad No. 2 
Prepare and serve the same as Lobster Salad No. 2. 

Salmon Salad No. 3 

Mix two cups cold cooked salmon with enough mayon- 
naise dressing to make it creamy. Pack in timbale 
molds, chill; remove from molds. Serve on lettuce, and 
garnish with marinated slices of cucumber and mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Scallop Salad 

Mix two cups of cold cooked scallops cut in small 

pieces, one cup of celery cut in shreds, with mayonnaise 

dressing. Chill one hour. Serve in nests of lettuce. 

Garnish with mayonnaise, chopped olives and chopped 

chives. 

Shad Roe Salad 

Marinate two cups each of cucumber and cooked shad 
roe. Chill one hour; add one half cup mayonnaise. Ar- 
range in salad bowl; garnish with marinated slices of 
cucumber and crisp lettuce leaves. Sprinkle the slices of 
cucumber with chopped chives. 

Shrimp Salad 

Marinate two cups of shrimps with French dressing. 
Add one half cup each of olives and pimentos. Chill 
one hour. Drain; add one half cup of mayonnaise dress- 
ing; serve on lettuce and garnish with whole shrimps. 

Spinach Salad 

Mix two cups cold, cooked, and seasoned spinach, with 
four hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped. Press into timbale 
molds; chill; remove; arrange in nests of lettuce; cover 



SALADS 183 

with French dressing. Garnish top and edge of salad 
with egg, arranged like daisies. Pass cream or mayon- 
naise dressing with this salad. 

Sweetbread Salad 

Marinate one cup each of cold cooked sweetbreads, cel- 
ery and cucumbers. Chill one hour. Drain; mix with 
mayonnaise; serve on lettuce, and garnish with pimento. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad 

Mix two cups sweetbreads and two cups cucumbers cut 
in small pieces, with mayonnaise dressing; add one tea- 
spoon gelatine, which has been dissolved in water. Press 
in timbale molds. Chill; remove from molds, and serve 
in individual nests of lettuce. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing and chopped parsley. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Remove the skin from eight tomatoes; scoop out the in- 
side. Chill shells. Drain pulp; add equal quantity of 
celery, shrimps and cucumber, mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing. Refill shells ; serve on cress, and garnish with 

mayonnaise. 

Tomato and Nut Salad 

Remove the skin from eight tomatoes ; scoop out the in- 
side; mix the drained pulp with equal amount of chopped 
walnuts and one fourth cup chopped green peppers. Add 
mayonnaise dressing or cream dressing. Refill tomato 
shells; serve in lettuce nests, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

French Fruit Salad 

Remove the skin and seeds from one cup of white 
grapes. Cut three bananas in cubes and cover imme- 
diately with lemon juice. Remove the skin and white 



184 LOWNET'8 COOK BOOK 

from six oranges and cut in small pieces. Mix witli 
mayonnaise ; arrange in nests of white lettuce leaves, or 
serve in halves of oranges. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Martin Salad 

Cook a two-pound slice of halibut with one onion cut 
in slices, four slices of carrot, two tablespoons vinegar, six 
cloves, bit of bay leaf, and four peppercorns, in water to 
cover, until tender. Chill, and marinate with French 
dressing. Cook four cups potato balls in boiling, salted 
water, with two slices onion and four cloves. When done, 
drain and cover with hot salad dressing. Marinate two 
cups each of French peas and flageolettes with a French 
dressing. Cut three tomatoes in slices, and marinate with 
French dressing. 

When all these ingredients are thoroughly chilled, rub 
the salad dish with onion ; lay slice of halibut in center ; 
garnish with cream maj'^onnaise ; arrange potatoes at 
either end of slice, and sprinkle with finely chopped pars- 
ley. Arrange a mound each of flageolettes and peas on 
either side of halibut ; cover halibut with slices of tomato 
overlapping each other ; garnish with the heart leaves of 
lettuce, arranged at intervals around the dish. Pass 
mayonnaise cream dressing. 



Vegetable Salad 

Mix one cup cold cooked potatoes, one cup tomato jelly 
cut in cubes, and one cup cold cooked peas. Marinate 
with French dressing ; arrange on a salad dish ; mask with 
mayonnaise or cream dressing, and garnish with slices 
of tomato around the edge, and mounds of peas alternat- 
ing with mounds of chopped pimolas. 



SALADS 185 

Vegetable Oyster or Salsify Salad 

Mix two cups cold cooked salsify, cut in small pieces, 
with a French dressing ; let it stand one hour. Rub salad 
bowl with clove of garlic. Arrange bed of cress in salad 
bowl ; cover with two tablespoons cream dressing. Cover 
with drained salsify, and cover whole with cream dress- 
ing. Garnish with radish roses. 

Waldorf Salad 

Mix one cup each of small pieces of celery, apple cut in 
balls, and English walnuts broken in small pieces. Add 
one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons orange juice, and the 
grated rind of one orange. Add one cup mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve in lettuce nests or in apple cups, made 
by scooping out the pulp. Garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing and pieces of the apple skin cut in fancy shapes. 

Apple Salad 

Scoop out the center of eight red apples with a vegetable 
scoop. Mix with equal parts of finely chopped celery and 
boiled dressing. Fill apple shells and serve on bed of 
curled celery. 

Grape Fruit Salad No. i 

Mix equal quantities of grape fruit and English walnut 
meats, with one half cup mayonnaise dressing. Serve in 
grape fruit cups in lettuce nests. 

Grape Fruit Salad No. 2 

Shred four green peppers, two red peppers, and two grape 
fruit. Mix with one cup chopped celery and one cup 
cream dressing. Serve on marinated water cress and 
garnish with stars of red and green peppers. 



186 LOWNMY'8 COOK BOOK 

Sweet Grape Fruit Salad 

Use same ingredients as for Grape BVuit Salad, substi- 
tuting wine dressing for mayonnaise. 

Orange Salad 

Marinate eight oranges cut in slices with French dress- 
ing. Season highly with cayenne. Serve on water cress. 

Orange Salad No. 2 

Cut thin round slices of orange without removing skin ; 
arrange in layers in salad bowl. Serve on bed of water 
cress, and marinate with French dressing. 

Orange Salad No. 3 

Cut six oranges in halves, take out the pulp, and remove 
veins and sections. To the pulp add one fourth cup pow- 
dered sugar, one fourth cup chopped mint, and two table- 
spoons each of wine, lemon juice and orange juice. . Serve 
in champagne glasses, and garnish with one red cherry and 

a bit of angelica. 

Pineapple Salad 

Shred one pineapple; add same amount of white grapes, 
skinned and seeded, equal amount of celery cut in small 
pieces, and one half cup castana nuts shredded finely. 
Moisten with cream mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with red cherries. 

Sweet Fruit Salad 

Use same ingredients as for pineapple salad, substituting 
a wine dressing for cream mayonnaise dressing. 



CHAPTER XII 
SANDWICHES 

The best sandwiches are made from bread which is fine 
grained and one day old. 

Always cream the butter for buttering the bread. 

Spread the loaf with butter before cutting the slice from 
the loaf. Cut each slice as thin as possible. After cutting, 
spread the slice with the sandwich mixture, and cover with 
another slice. Press the slices together firmly; cut off all 
crust and cut in rounds, triangles, or any shape desired. 

Keep sandwiches wrapped in a cheese cloth which has 
been thoroughly dampened with cold water, and pack in a 
closed box until ready to use. 

Anchovy Sandwiches 

Remove the bones from one dozen anchovies; add the 
yolks of three hard-cooked eggs, and pound to a paste. 

Mix two tablespoons Parmesan cheese, with a few grains 
of cayenne; add to anchovy mixture, with enough cream to 
make of the consistency to spread. 

Use for a filling between slices of -buttered white bread. 

Caviare Sandwiches 

Mix three tablespoon^ lemon juice, three tablespoons 
olive oil, and one quarter pound Russian caviare. Beat 
until creamy. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Celery Sandwiches 

Mix one cup finely shredded celery, one fourth cup finely 
chopped nuts, and one fourth cup chopped olives. Moisten 

187 



188 ZOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

with mayonnaise and spread between thin slices of brown 
bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. i 

Mix one cream cheese with an equal amount of chopped 
walnuts; add a few grains of cayenne, season with salt, and 
moisten with cream. Use for a filling for graham sand- 
wiches. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. 2 

Pound one quarter pound American cheese with two 
tablespoons butter, a few grains cayenne, and one tea- 
spoon mustard; moisten with tarragon vinegar, and spread 
between thin slices of white bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches No. 3 

Mix one cream cheese with an equal amount of chopped 
pimolas; season with salt and cayenne, and moisten with 
cream or mayonnaise. 

Use for a filling for white or brown bread sandwiches. 

Chicken Sandwiches No. i 

Mix one cup chopped chicken with one fourth cup 
mayonnaise. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Chicken Sandwiches No. 2 

Mix one cup chopped chicken with one cup chopped 
almonds; moisten with cream; season with salt and pap- 
rika. Use for filling for entire wheat bread sandwiches. 

Cucumber Sandwiches 

Slice one cucumber; marinate with French dressing. 
Sprinkle thin slices of white bread with cayenne; spread 
with marinated cucumbers, and cover with white bread 
cut in thin slices. 



SANDWICHES 189 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop two hard-cooked eggs; add olive oil and season- 
ings, until of the consistency to spread. Use for a filling 
for graham bread sandwiches. 

Lobster Salad Sandwiches 

Mix one cup chopped lobster meat with mayonnaise. 
Marinate crisp lettuce leaves. Arrange drained leaves on 
thin slices of bread; cover with lobster, and cover lobster 
with bread; sprinkle dried lobster coral on top of each 
sandwich. Prepare just before serving; if allowed to 
stand they will be unsatisfactory. 

Favorite Sandwiches 

Cream two tablespoons butter, add one half cup grated 
American cheese, two tablespoons anchovy essence, one 
fourth teaspoon each of paprika and mustard, and one 
half cup finely chopped olives. Season with salt and 
spread between thin slices of bread. 

Club Sandwiches 

Marinate crisp lettuce leaves. Butter thin slices of 
bread; arrange on bread one lettuce leaf, on leaf a thin 
slice of tongue spread with mayonnaise, on top of this a 
slice of tomato spread with mayonnaise, and cover with a 
thin slice of buttered bread. 

Tomato and Horse-radish Sandwiches 

Mix one quarter cup mayonnaise with one quarter cup 
horse-radish. Sprinkle slices of tomato with salt. Spread 
thin slices of bread with horse-radish mixture, and put 
sliced tomato between. 



190 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Nasturtium Sandwiches 

Spread thin slices of white bread with mayonnaise; use 
the petals of nasturtium flowers for filling, allowing some 
of the petals to come beyond the edge of the bread. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Spread buttered bread with jelly and sprinkle jelly with 
chopped nuts. Cover with buttered bread, and shape. 

Ginger Sandwiches 

Use finely chopped Canton ginger for a filling for gra- 
ham bread sandwiches. 

Orange Sandwiches 

Use orange marmalade for a filling for white or whole 
wheat bread sandwiches. 

Striped Bread Sandwiches 

Make an equal number of white bread and brown bread 
sandwiches ; place sandwiches together in alternating colors. 
Wrap in damp cheese cloth and press over night. Cut in 
thin slices, then in strips. 

When cut, these sandwiches give the appearance of 
marbled bread. 

Fig Sandwiches 

Stew figs, season with wine and lemon juice, and use 
for a filling for white or graham bread sandwiches. 

Lettuce, water cress, sardines, shrimp and oysters may 
be mixed with French dressing or mayonnaise, and used 
for filling for sandwiches. 



CHAPTER XIII 

DESSERTS 

COLD DESSERTS 
Chocolate Blanc Mange No. i 

2 tablespoons gelatine 2 cups scalded milk 
J cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium 3 eggs 

Chocolate J teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vaniUa 

Soak the gelatine in cold water ; mix sugar, chocolate 
and eggs ; add scalded milk, and cook in double boiler 
until a coating is formed on a spoon ; add soaked gela- 
tine ; when dissolved, add salt and vanilla ; pour into mold 
and chill. Serve with sugar and cream, beaten cream, or 

soft custard. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange No. 2 

^ cup Irish moss 2 squares Lowney's Premium 

3 cups cold water Chocolate 

4 cups cold milk J cup sugar 

5 cup boiling water 

Soak Irish moss in cold water twenty minutes ; drain, 
and pick over. Put milk in double boiler ; add moss, and 
cook without stirring thirty minutes. Melt chocolate ; 
add sugar and water ; boil two minutes ; add to first 
mixture. Strain, mold, chill, and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

191 



192 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Mold 

4 tablespoons cornstarch | teaspoon vanilla 

J cup cold milk J cup blanched almonds 

2 cups scalded milk 3 ounces Lowney's Premium Choc- 
J cup sugar olate, melted with 2 table- 
^ teaspoon salt spoons sugar 

3 egg whites 

Mix cornstarcli with cold milk ; add sugar, salt, scalded 
milk, and the melted chocolate, mixed with two tablespoons 
sugar. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring 
constantly. Cool slightly, cut, and fold in the well-beaten 
egg whites, keeping the mixture as fluffy as possible. 
Add vanilla. Decorate the bottom and sides of an oval 
mold with halves of almonds arranged in the shape of 
daisies. Pour in the cornstarch mixture, chill, remove 
from mold, and garnish with candied cherries and beaten 
cream, sweetened and flavored. 

A more fancy dish is obtained by making double the 
recipe and putting the chocolate into half the mixture, 
keeping the other half white. Mold the white in small 
glasses or timbale molds and arrange around the oval 
mold. Garnish each small mold with half cherry, and 
the spaces between with cream forced through the pastry 
bag. See colored illustration, Plate I, opposite. 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe 

1 pint cream whipped until ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

stiff 3 egg whites 

J cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

Chocolate or 1 tablespoon brandy 

sponge cake or macaroons 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, or mix the cocoa 
with one quarter cup hot water; add sugar, cream whipped 




CHOCOLATE MOLD 
Plate I. For Recipe sec page 192 




CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 
Plate II. For Recipe see page 192 




CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 
Plate III. For Recipe see page 193 














T* 






jr. -f. 




CHOCOLATE TRIFLE 
Plate IV. For Recipe see page iij3 



DESSERTS 193 

until stiff, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, salt and flavor- 
ing. Line a mold with lady fingers or sponge cake ; fill 
with cream mixture, and chill at least one hour. This 
mixture may be molded in individual molds ; then one 
half hour will be sufficient to chill it. See colored illus- 
tration, Plate II, opposite. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 cups milk 

Chocolate 2 tablespoons granulated gela- 
i cup sugar tine 

4 egg yolks 2 cups cream 

I cup cold water J teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate; add sugar, eggs, and milk; cook in 
double boiler until mixture thickens; soak gelatine in 
cold water ; dissolve in egg mixture, strain, cool, and when 
beginning to harden, fold in whip from two cups of cream. 
See colored illustration, Plate III, opposite. 

Chocolate Trifle 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 1| tablespoons granulated gela- 

Chocolate tine 

I cup powdered sugar ^ cup cold water 

J cup boiling water ^ cup scalded milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla whip from 3 cups cream 

Melt chocolate; addsugar and water; cook until smooth. 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water ; 

add chocolate mixture. Chill partially ; add vanilla, and 

whip from cream. Mold, chill, and serve, garnished with 

beaten cream and cherries. See colored illustration, Plate 

IV, opposite. 

Chocolate Cream Custard 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 
3 cups scalded milk Chocolate 

J teaspoon salt 



194 zownet's cook book 

Melt sugar in clean omelet pan ; when golden brown, add 
to scalded milk; when dissolved pour on to eggs, which 
have been slightly beaten, add salt, vanilla, and chocolate 
which has been melted over hot water. 

Strain into individual molds. Set in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven untU. firm. Chill ; 
unmold, and serve with chocolate sauce or caramel sauce. 

Cocoa Cream 

2 cups light cream ^ cup cocoa 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine J inch stick cinnamon 

i cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg yolks 1 cup heavy cream 

2 egg whites J teaspoon salt 

Mix cocoa, sugar, yolks of eggs; add light cream and 
cinnamon, and cook in double boiler until mixture begins 
to thicken. Add gelatine which has been soaked in cold 
water, and stir until dissolved. 

Add salt, vanilla, and whites of eggs beaten until stiff ; 
when well blended, add heavy cream beaten until thick 
with Dover egg beater. Mold, chill; and serve with 
cream. 

Cocoa Almond Cream 

Use recipe for Cocoa Cream and add one cup blanched, 
chopped, and browned almonds just before molding. 

Cocoa Tutti-frutti Cream 

Use recipe for Cocoa Cream. Add one half cup maca- 
roons which have been dried in the oven and pounded, and 
one cup candied cherries cut in small pieces ; or one half 
dozen marshmallows and one half dozen raisins, and one 
tablespoon each of citron and candied cherries, chopped 
fine, may be added just before molding. 



DESSERTS 195 

Chestnuts with Chocolate Cream 

1 cup mashed chestnuts 1 cup heavy cream 

4 tablespoons powdered 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

J teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons maraschino 

4 tablespoons cream 4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 
3 tablespoons sherry wine Chocolate, melted 

Chestnut Mixture 

Boil one quart French chestnuts ; remove shells, press 
through potato ricer ; add sugar, salt, cream and flavoring. 

Fill individual molds with this mixture. Chill. Remove 
from molds and serve around the chocolate cream mixture. 

Chocolate Cream Mixture 
Beat the one cup heavy cream in aloove recipe ; add 
powdered sugar, chocolate and flavoring. Arrange in the 
shape of a pyramid; garnish with candied cherries and 
angelica, cut in small pieces. 

Cocoanut Molds with Chocolate Sauce 

2 cups mili 3 tablespoons cold mUk 
I cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons cornstarch mixed f cup shredded cocoanut 

with 3 egg whites 

Mix cornstarch with three tablespoons cold milk; add 
salt, sugar and two cups milk. Cook in double boiler 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly. Add cocoanut and 
cut and fold in the whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. 
Turn into molds, chill, and serve with chocolate sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon butter 

2 egg yolks 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 
J cup sugar Chocolate or 

J teaspoon salt J cup Lowney's Cocoa 

Cook all ingredients in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until the spoon is coated. Serve hot or cold. 



196 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Raspberry Meringue 

3 egg whites 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
1 cup powdered sugar Chocolate, melted 

4 tablespoons raspberry jam. 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, using fork or flat 
beater ; add remaining ingredients very slowly, and beat 
constantly. 

Serve with beaten cream, flavored with wine or vanilla. 
The above mixture may be taken up in spoonfuls and 
poached in hot water, or may be used for eclairs, cream 
puffs, or cream pie, or served plain in frappe glasses. 

Chocolate Junket 

1 ounce Lowney's Premium 1 quart milk 

Chocolate 1 tablespoon wine or brandy 

3 tablespoons boiling water \ cup powdered sugar 
1 junket tablet 

Melt chocolate; add boiling water. Crush junket tablet; 
dissolve in one tablespoon cold water. Scald milk ; add 
sugar, flavoring; when cool, add dissolved junket tablet 
and melted chocolate ; pour into serving cups ; let stand in 
warm place until of consistency of jelly, then chill. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Cocoa Froth 

1\ tablespoons granulated \ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

gelatine 1 cup sugar 

J cup cold water grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

I cup boiling water 4 egg whites 

\ teaspoon salt 

Soak gelatine in cold water; add boiling water. Mix 
cocoa, sugar, lemon juice and rind ; add gelatine mixture ; 
strain into a cold bowl. When mixture thickens, beat 
until frothy; add well-beaten whites, and beat until mix- 
ture will stand alone. Drop spoonfuls on serving dish 
and garnish with vanilla custard. 



DESSERTS 197 

Soft Custard 

2 cups milk } cup sugar 

4 egg yolks J teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix eggs, sugar and 
salt ; add scalded milk to them ; return to double boiler, 
and cook until mixture thickens and is of a smooth and 
creamy consistency. 

Strain into a cold dish and flavor when cold. Should the 
custard begin to curdle, set immediately into a dish of cold 
water and beat briskly with a wire whisk or egg beater. 

Soft custard may be made with whole eggs, but it is 

not so velvety. 

Arrowroot Custard 

2 cups milk ~ 2 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons arrowroot J teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon vanilla J cup sugar 

Scald milk ; mix arrowroot and sugar ; add to scalded 
milk, and cook three minutes. Beat egg yolks slightly ; 
add salt; pour milk mixture on to eggs; return to double 
boiler ; stir constantly until thickened. 

Cool, flavor, and serve in custard cups. 

Banana Custard 

Arrange slices of bananas in bottom of serving dish, 
sprinkle with lemon juice, and cover with soft custard. 

Fruit Custard 

Prepare the same as Banana Custard, using one fruit 
or a combination of fruits. 

Strawberry Custard 

Use recipe for Soft Custard. When cold, add one cup 
of crushed and sweetened strawberries. Serve ice-cold 
and garnish with strawberry meringue. 



198 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Coffee Custard 

Use rule for Soft Custard, adding one fourth cup raw 
coffee to milk before scalding. 

Soft Caramel Custard 

Use recipe for Soft Custard, adding one half cup 
caramelized sugar to milk, before scalding. 

Baked Vanilla Custard 

3 cups milk \ cup sugar 

5 eggs \ teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk and add to eggs, sugar and salt, mixed to- 
gether. Strain, add vanilla, and bake in one large buttered 
mould, or small ones, set in a pan of hot water, in a slow 
oven. Should the water boil during baking, the custard 
will be of a porous consistency. To test the custard 
thrust a silver knife through the center. When it comes 
out clean the custard is done. 

Baked Sherry Custard 

Use rule for Baked Vanilla Custard, flavoring with one 
tablespoon sherry wine. 

All other flavored custards may be made the same way, 
by substituting special flavorings. 

Baked Caratael Custard No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 egg yolks J cup sugar 

2 cups milk | teaspoon salt 

Caramelize the one cup of sugar. When a delicate 
brown color, pour into a well-buttered charlotte russe 
mold or into individual cups; set away to cool. 

Scald milk ; mix eggs, one fourth cup of sugar, and salt, 



DESSERTS 199 

add milk; strain into mold on to cold caramel; add sea- 
soning and bake the same as Baked Vanilla Custard. 
Unmold and serve with caramel sauce. 

Baked Caramel Custard No. 2 

3 cups milk J teaspoon salt 

1 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 

Scald milk ; caramelize sugar and add to scalded milk. 
Beat eggs slightly, add salt, milk mixture and flavoring. 
Strain into buttered dish and bake like Baked Vanilla 
Custard. Unmold and serve with caramel sauce. 

This rule may be made with three eggs, but will be less 
rich and will break when unmolded. 

Floating Island 

Follow rule for Soft Custard ; flavor with lemon juice, 
and garnish with a meringue made of the whites of four 
eggs, four tablespoons powdered sugar, and one teaspoon 
vanilla, beaten until stiff. 

The meringue may be first poached in water in spoon- 
fuls, then dropped on top of custard ; or may be placed 
there without being poached, and teaspoons of currant 
jelly placed on top of each island. 

Strawberry Floating Island 

Make the same as Floating Island and add to the 
meringue the sweetened juice of two cups of strawberries. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

4 cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar J cup Irish moss 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the moss ; tie in cheese cloth, and cook in milk in 
double boiler thirty minutes without stirring. Remove 



200 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

moss without pressing bag ; add other ingredients, strain 
into wet molds, chill, and serve. 

Chocolate Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

See Chocolate Blanc Mange No. 2. 

Cofiee Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Use recipe for Irish Moss Blanc Mange, and flavor 
with two teaspoons coffee extract. 

Cornstarch Pudding No. i 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 3 egg -whites 

J teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; scald milk, add to corn- 
starch, stir constantly, until it thickens ; cook one half 
hour, stirring occasionally. Add the beaten egg whites, 
beat well, flavor, and mold. Chill and serve. 

Cornstarch Pudding No. 2 

Follow recipe for Cornstarch Pudding No. 1, substitut- 
ing three egg yolks for three egg whites. 

Fruit Cornstarch Pudding 

Add one cup of any kind of cooked fruit to Cornstarch 
Pudding No. 1 just before molding. 

Cocoanut Cornstarch Mold 

Add one cup of shredded cocoanut to Cornstarch Pud- 
ding No. 1, and serve with custard sauce. 

Pineapple Cornstarch Mold 

Add one can pineapple to Cornstarch Pudding No. 1, 
and serve with custard sauce. 



.JDESSEBTS 201 

Tapioca Cream 

3 tablespoons pearl tapioca J cup sugar 

2 cups milk J teaspoon salt 

2 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

J teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in milk one hour, cook in double boiler 
one half hour. Mix egg yolks, salt and sugar; add tapioca 
mixture, and cook until mixture thickens. Cool slightly, 
add stiffly beaten whites. Cool, flavor, and serve. 

Tapioca Pudding 

Cover one cup pearl tapioca with boiling water. Cook 
in boiling water until transparent. Add three tablespoons 
sugar, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Serve cold 
with sugar and cream. 

Apple Tapioca No. i 

i cup pearl tapioca 8 apples 

4 cups boiling water i cup sugar 

i teaspoon salt gi-ated rind and juice of one lemon 

Cook the tapioca in boiling water until transparent; 
add one half teaspoon salt and lemon rind. 

Core and pare apples, arrange in baking dish, fill cavities 
with sugar and lemon juice, cover with tapioca, and bake 
until apples are tender, adding one teaspoon butter before 
taking from oveu. 

Apple Tapioca No. 2 

Use rule for Apple Tapioca No. 1, arranging tapioca 
and apples cut in slices, in layers. 

Apple Sago 

Use rule for Apple Tapioca No. 1, substituting one half 
cup sago for tapioca. 



202 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Danish Pudding 

1 cup tapioca 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
3 cups boiling water i cup sugar 

i teaspoon salt 1 tumbler currant jelly 

Soak tapioca in water several hours, and cook in same 
water until transparent. Add remaining ingredients. 
Mold, chill, and serve. 

Sponge Cocoanut Pudding 

Season soft custard with two tablespoons wine. Ar- 
range in layers one dozen macaroons, one dozen lady 
fingers and one dozen cocoanut cakes. 

Cover with soft custard and sprinkle with grated 

cocoanut. 

Apple Meringue 

8 apples ^ teaspoon salt 

3 egg yolks 2 cups milk 

^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Core apples and bake until tender. Make a custard of 
the remaining ingredients; pour over baked apples. Cover 
with meringue made of the whites of the eggs and three 
tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Chestnut Cream 

2 cups shelled chestnuts soft custard 
grated rind and juice of one lemon | cup cream 

Boil chestnuts; press through strainer; add lemon juice, 
rind and custard. Turn into frappe glasses; cover with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 

Lemon Jelly No. i 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2J cups boiling water 
i cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

i cup lemon juice 



DESSERTS 203 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water; when 
dissolved, add sugar and lemon juice. Mold and chill. 

Lemon Jelly No. 2 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

1 cup cold water 1 cup lemon juice 

2 cups boiling water grated rind of one haH lemon 

Soak the gelatine in cold water; add boiling water and 
lemon rind; let it stand ten minutes. Strain; add sugar 
and lemon juice. Mold in shallow dish. When hard, 
cut in squares and serve with boiled custard. 

Grape Fruit Jelly 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

^ cup cold water 1 cup grape fruit juice 

2 cups boiling water IJ cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water; add boiling water, fruit 
juice, sugar, and strain. Mold, chill, and serve. 

Orange Jelly 

Make the same as Grape Fruit Jelly, substituting 
orange for grape juice. 

Macedoine of Oranges 

Use rule for Orange Jelly. Cover the bottom of a 

charlotte russe mold with jelly. Chill, decorate with 

sections of oranges, add another layer of jelly, decorate 

the sides as well as bottom, and so continue until dish is 

filled. 

Wine Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine 1 cup wine 

^ cup cold water | cup lemon juice 

1 cup boiling water J cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 

Prepare as for Lemon Jelly mold. Chill and serve. 



204 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Sauteme Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine J cup lemon juice 

I cup cold water IJ cups sauterne 

1 cup boiling water li cups sugar 

green coloring 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add a small amount of col- 
oring to boiling water, pour on to soaked gelatine, add 
sugar and fruit juice. Strain, if the liquid is satisfactory- 
color ; if not deep enough, add more coloring matter be- 
fore straining. Mold, chill, and serve. 

Russian Jelly 

2 tablespoons gelatine 2 cups boiling water 
J cup cold water ^ cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar I cup grape juice 

1 tablespoon wine 3 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Boil sugar and boiling 

water ten minutes. Add soaked gelatine and fruit juice. 

Strain, add egg whites, and beat with Dover egg beater 

until cold. Serve with beaten cream, sweetened and 

flavored. 

Orange Trifle 

2 tablespoons gelatine IJ cups orange juice 
J cup cold water ^ cup lemon juice 

^ cup boiling water grated rind of one orange 

1 J cups sugar whip from two and one half cups 

cream. 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar, fruit rind, and juice, and the whip from cream. 
Decorate a melon mold with sections of oranges. Pour 
in trifle mixture. Chill, cool, remove from mold, gar- 
nish with orange jelly and beaten and sweetened cream. 

Peach Gateau 

Scoop out center of a round sponge cake ; fill with fresh 
peaches, sweetened and cut in pieces. Cover with beaten 



DESSERTS 205 

and sweetened cream, put on with a pastry bag and tube. 
Garnish with small pieces of peaches. 

Syllabub 

2 cups cream 1 cup sherry 

2 tablespoons lemon juice J teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar grated rind of one lemon 

Whip cream ; mix other ingredients, add whip, and 

serve in frappe glasses. Garnish with small bits of red 

cherries. 

Strawberry Syllabub 

2 cups cream 1 cup sugar 

Ij cups strawberry juice J cup lemon juice 

whites of two eggs 

Mix sugar and fruit juice. Add beaten whites and 
cream. Continue beating until stiff. Arrange sliced 
strawberries in the bottom of frappe glasses, add cream 
mixture, and garnish with slices of strawberries on top. 

Prune Jelly 

1 cup prunes 2 tablespoons sherry 
J box gelatine 2 cups boiling water 
i cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ cup walnuts 

Cook prunes and remove stones. Soak gelatine in cold 
water. Add boiling water. Strain; add lemon juice, 
sherry and sugar. Pour into a mold. When mixture 
begins to harden, add prunes cut in pieces and walnuts 
broken in pieces. . Stir occasionally, to keep fruit from 
settling. Mold, chill, and serve with soft custard. 

Fruit Jelly Macedoine 

Use wine, orange, or lemon jelly. Pour jelly in mold 
to depth of one half inch. Decorate bottom of mold 
with a slice of banana, and radiating from it halves of 



206 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

blanched almonds. Cover with jelly, and arrange in alter- 
nating layers, English walnuts, candied fruits, figs and 
jelly. Chill ; serve and garnish with whipped cream. 

Bavarian Cream 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 2 cups cream 

^ cup cold water J cup sugar 

J cup hot cream 1 teaspoon vaniUa 

Soak the gelatine in cold water : dissolve in hot cream ; 
add sugar. Add the whip from one pint of cream when 
the mixture begins to thicken. Cut and fold in this cream ; 
do not stir. When nearly stiff enough to drop, mold. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

Use rule for Bavarian Cream, substituting one fourth 
cup strong boiling coffee for one fourth cup cream. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 pint fresh strawberry juice 

I cup cold water 24 whole strawberries 

J cup boiling water whip from one pint of cream 

J cup sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water. 
Add fruit juice and sugar ; stir until mixture begins to 
thicken. Cut and fold in the whip from the cream. 

Line a mold with halves of strawberries ; pour in cream 
mixture. Chill ; garnish with beaten cream and straw- 
berries, and serve. 

Raspberry Bavarian 

Prepare the same as Strawberry Bavarian, adding two 
tablespoons lemon juice, and substituting raspberry juice 
for strawberry juice. 

Pineapple Bavarian 

Prepare the same as Strawberry Bavarian, and substitute 
one can grated pineapple for strawberry juice. 



DESSERTS 207 

Peach or Apricot Bavarian 

Use rule for Strawberry Bavarian, using one pint 
crushed peaches or apricots for strawberry juice, and -gar- 
nish with halves of peaches or apricots. 

Chocolate Bavarian 

For Chocolate Bavarian see special recipes for Lowney's 
Chocolate. 

Banana Bavarian 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 4 bananas 

^ cup cold water 2 tablespoons orange juice 

1 cup boiling water | cup sugar 

whip from two cups cream 

Mash the bananas. Soak gelatine in cold water; dissolve 
in boiling water; add sugar, banana pulp and orange juice. 
When mixture begins to thicken, cut and fold in the 
whip from the cream. Mold, chill, and garnish with 
beaten cream, bananas and cherries. 

Ginger Bavarian 

Use rule for Banana Bavarian, substituting one cup 
preserved ginger ; and adding one quarter cup sherry 
wine. 

Italian Cream 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 

3 egg yolks ■ few grains salt 

\ cup sugar ^ cup cold water 

3 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; scald milk; mix yolks and 
sugar, add milk and salt; cook until mixture begins to 
thicken; add soaked gelatine, chill, and as mixture thickens 
add -the beaten whites of eggs. Mold, chill, and serve. 
Any flavorings used for Bavarians may be used for Italian 
creams. 



208 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Almond Italian Cream 

To Italian Cream add one cup almonds which have 

been blanched, chopped, and browned and two tablespoons 

lemon juice. 

Caramel Italian Cream 

To Italian Cream add one cup caramelized sugar to cus- 
tard before adding gelatine. 

Maple Italian Cream 

Add one cup maple sugar to hot custard in Italian 
Cream before adding gelatine. 

Bavarian Macedoine 

Line a mold with strawberry Bavarian, one inch thick, 
set another mold on top of this Bavarian and pour in straw- 
berry Bavarian to the top of the mold. Chill. When 
hardened, remove second mold and fill with alternate 
layers beaten cream, chopped nuts and chopped fruit. 

Ribbon Bavarian 

Use rule for Plain Bavarian, and divide into three parts 
before adding the cream. 

Into one third stir one quarter cup strawberry juice 
and color pink; into another third add two tablespoons 
chopped almonds and color green; flavor the other third 
with vanilla. 

Add one third of the whipped cream to each of these 
thirds and arrange in layers in charlotte russe molds. 
Chill and garnish with beaten cream, strawberries, and 
nuts. 

One must work quickly to keep the gelatine mixture 
from hardening. Should it harden before it can be used, 
set the dish containing the gelatine mixture into a pan of 
hot water and stir until liquefied. 



DESSERTS 209 

Rice Bavarian 

3 cups milk 1 tablespoon gelatine 

J cup rice J cup cold water 

^ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sherry wine 

J cup sugar 1 cup cream 

J cup boiling water 

Cook rice in milk in double boiler until rice is tender, 
and milk is absorbed. Add sugar, salt, and gelatine 
which has been soaked in cold water and dissolved in 
hot water. Add flavoring, cool slightly, and add whipped 
cream. Mold, chill, and garnish with wine or orange 
jelly cut in cubes. 

Diplomatic Pudding 

Line a mold with lemon jelly to the depth of one inch. 
Place a smaller mold on top of jelly and surround smaller 
mold with lemon jelly. When jelly is hard, remove, 
mold and fill with any flavored Bavarian cream. 

Banana Cantaloupe 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup scalded cream 
I cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

3 egg whites 6 bananas 

I cup lemon juice whip from 2 cups cream 

lady fingers 

Soak gelatine in cold water; dissolve in hot cream. Add 
sugar, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, mashed bananas 
and lemon juice. Chill; as it begins to thicken, fold in 
the whipped cream. Line a melon mold with lady fin- 
gers, add cream mixture, chill, and serve. Garnish with 
cream beaten and flavored, cherries and angelica. 

Date Whip 

1 cup stoned and chopped dates 3 egg whites 

J cup boiling water | cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice J teaspoon salt 



210 lowney's cook book 

Cook dates in boiling water until tender; press through 
a sieve. Beat whites until stiff; add sugar, lemon juice 
and salt. Carefully fold in the date pulp, pile lightly- 
on a buttered baking dish, and bake thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve with soft custard or with whipped 
cream. 

Prune SouflEle 

Substitute two cups prunes, for dates, in Date Whip, 
and follow rule for Date Whip. 

Strawberry Whip 

2 cups strawberries 2 egg whites 

1 cup powdered sugar \ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Crush the berries; add sugar and lemon juice. Beat 
eggs until stiff, and continue beating while adding straw- 
berry mixture. Serve with soft custard or beaten cream. 

Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. i 

2 cups cream 3 egg whites 

I cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat cream until stiff; add sugar, flavoring, and egg 

whites, b-aten until stiff. Line a mold with slices of 

sponge cake or lady fingers; fill with mixture. Chill and 

serve. 

Caramel Charlotte Russe 

Use rule for Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1, substituting 
one cup caramelized sugar for the powdered sugar. 

French Charlotte Russe 

Add to Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1 one dozen marsh- 
mallows finely chopped, one dozen almonds blanched and 
chopped, six walnuts chopped, two tablespoons candied 
cherries finely chopped, and one tablespoon brandy. 



DESSERTS 211 

Strawberry Charlotte Russe 

Crush two cups strawberries, add one cup sugar, and 
add to Vanilla Charlotte Russe No. 1. 



Apple Rice 

8 apples 1 cup hot cooked rice 

J glass crab apple jelly 2 cups milk 

J cup seeded raisins 3 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Pare and core the apples. Arrange in baking dish, fill 
with currant jelly, and surround with rice, mixed with hot 
milk, egg yolks, butter, raisins and flavoring. Cook in 
oven until apples are tender. Remove from oven and 
cover with a meringue. Serve hot or cold. 

Imperial Chocolate Pudding 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 2 squares Lowney's Premium 
2 cups milk Chocolate 

i cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

J teaspoon salt whites of 2 eggs 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Mix constarch, sugar, salt and milk ; melt chocolate; 
add water, cornstarch mixture, and cook in double boiler 
ten minutes ; cool; add well-beaten egg whites, flavoring, 
and mold. Chill and serve with sugar and cream. 

Junket 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons wine, or 

1 junket tablet 1 teaspoon vaniUa 

J cup sugar J teaspoon salt 

Dissolve junket tablet in cold water. Heat the milk 
until lukewarm; add junket tablet, sugar, and flavoring; 
fill frappe glasses, let stand in warm room until set; then 
chill and serve. 



212 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Roman Pudding 

1 tablespoon gelatine 3 cups cream 

1 tablespoon cold water \ cup Madeira wine 
\ cup boiling water \ teaspoon salt 

\ cup powdered sugar 1 can preserved figs 

1 cup beaten cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling water; 
add wine and sugar. Stir until mixture thickens. Care- 
fully fold in the whip from cream. Mold, chill, and serve 
with figs and beaten cream. 

Snow Pudding 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons cold water \ cup lemon juice 

\ cup boiling water 3 egg whites 

Soak the gelatine in cold water ; dissolve in boiling 

water ; add sugar and lemon juice. Stir till mixture 

thickens, then add the beaten whites of eggs and continue 

beating until stiff enough to drop. Mold, chill, and serve 

with custard sauce. 

Compote of Figs 

1 pound pulled figs 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups water 1 cup cream 

i cup sugar \ cup powdered sugar 

Soak figs in water, then press into shape. Mix sugar 
and water, boil until syrupy, add lemon juice. Arrange figs 
on serving dish ; cover with syrup ; garnish with sweet- 
ened cream, beaten until stiff, pressed through pastry bag 

and tube. 

Pineapple Pudding 

pulp from one pineapple 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar \ teaspoon salt 

Mix sugar, eggs and pineapple; bake in slow oven until 
set. Unmold, garnish with beaten cream, the leaves of 
the pineapple and cherries. 



DESSERTS 213 

HOT DESSERTS 
Duchess Pudding 

1 cup scalded milk J cup cocoa 

1 cup soft bread crumbs ^ cup sugar 

J cup grated cocoanut 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

4 teaspoon salt 

Soak bread in scalded milk until soft. Add cocoanut, 
sugar, cocoa, lemon juice and salt ; beat well; add 
yolks of eggs slightly beaten, and cut and fold in the well- 
beaten whites. Turn into well-buttered pudding dish and 
bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Baked Chocolate SoufE16 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons hot water 

2 tablespoons flour 3 squares Lowney's Premium 

f cup milk Chocolate 

^ cup sugar yolks of 3 egg 

J teaspoon salt whites of 8 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter ; add flour ; when smooth, add milk ; cook 
five minutes; add sugar and salt. Melt chocolate; add 
hot water and flour mixture ; cook five minutes ; cool ; add 
yolks of eggs beaten well ; cut and fold in the well-beaten 
whites. Flavor ; bake in a buttered baking dish in a mod- 
erate oven twenty to thirty minutes. Serve immediately 
with sugar and cream, or beaten cream, or butter and 

sugar sauce. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

J cup bread crumbs 2 eggs 

2 cups scalded milk J teaspoon salt 

3 squares Lowney's Premium ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate melted J cup cold mUk 

I cup sugar 

Mix all ingredients in the order given. Pour into a 
buttered baking dish, set into a pan of hot water, and bake 



214 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

one hour in a moderate oven ; stir twice during the bak- 
ing to keep chocolate from rising to the top. 

Chocolate Raisin Pudding 

IJ cups fine cracker crumbs 1 egg 
2J cups milk 1 cup seeded raisins 

J cup molasses i cup cocoa, or 

J teaspoon salt 2 squares Lowney's Premium 

Chocolate melted 

Soak cracker crumbs in milk, add remaining ingredi- 
ents, turn into a buttered pudding dish, and steam four 
hours. Serve either hot or cold with cream sauce. 

Chocolate Balls 

J cup butter 2\ cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
J cup milk 4 egg whites 

2 squares Lowney's Premium J teaspoon salt 

Chocolate gTated 

Cream butter ; add chocolate and sugar, flour in which 
baking powder and salt have been sifted, and milk ; beat 
well, cut and fold in beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
individual molds or popover cups and steam forty 
minutes. Serve with chocolate sauce. 

Chocolate Nut Pudding 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

2 cups scalded milk | cup sugar 

1 cup chopped nuts juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

4 teaspoon salt 2 egg whites beaten until stiff 

Mix first seven ingredients ; when well blended, cut and 
fold in the whites of eggs ; pour into individual molds, 
and bake twenty to thirty minutes. Serve hot with 
cream or fruit sauce. See colored illustration, Plate V, 
opposite. 




'•^g^ty?^M ' -Vnr#S ^Bi^^-'"' ' 



CHOCOLATE NUT PUDDING 
Plate Y. For Recipe see page 214 




CHOCOLATE AND RICE PUDDING 
Plate VI. For Recipe see page 215 




COCOA FRUIT PUDDING 
Plate VII. For Recipe see page 215 



f '^Mfi^^ 




CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 
Plate VIII. For Recipe see page 240 





DjESSERTS i 


Chocolate and Rice Pudding 


i tablespoons rice 


i cup sugar 


2 cups milk 


J cup Lowney's Always Ready 


1 teaspoon salt 


Chocolate Powder, or 


2 tablespoons butter 


2 squares Lowney's Premium 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Chocolate 


i cup beaten cream 


f cup seeded raisins 




2 egg whites 



215 



Soak rice in milk one half hour ; add salt and cook in 
double boiler until rice is tender. Mix butter, sugar, 
chocolate, raisins and vanilla; add cooked rice, cream 
and beaten whites. Fill buttered baking dish, cover with 
a meringue, brown in a moderate oven, and serve either 
hot or cold. 

Milk may be substituted for the beaten cream if a less 

rich pudding is desired. See colored illustration, Plate 

VI, opposite. 

Cocoa Fruit Pudding 

J cup Lowney's Cocoa 1 cup brown sugar 

I cup beef suet 2 eggs 

1 cup figs finely chopped J cup milk 

21 cups soft bread crumbs i teaspoon salt » 

Chop suet, figs and bread crumbs in meat chopper. 
Add remaining ingredients, and steam three hours. Serve 
with hot chocolate sauce, or cream sweetened and flavored. 
See colored illustration, Plate VII, opposite. 

Steamed Chocolate Nut Pudding 

2 tablespoons sugar 5 egg yolks 
^ cup flour ^ cup sugar 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 1 cup finely chopped nuts 

Chocolate grated 5 egg whites 

i cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix first five ingredients and boil two minutes. Beat 
yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add sugar, 



216 lownet's cook book 

beat five minutes ; add nuts, then add to chocolate mix- 
ture. When well blended, cut and fold in the whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into buttered mold and 
steam one and one half hours. Remove from mold and 
serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

2 tablespoons butter J cup milk 

J cup flour 5 egg yolks 

5 cup Lowney's Always Ready f cup sugar 

Chocolate Powder J cup finely chopped almonds 

J teaspoon salt 5 egg whites 

Melt butter; add flour, chocolate, salt and milk; cook 
five minutes. Beat egg yolks until lemon-colored and 
thick ; add sugar and almonds ; when well blended, add 
chocolate mixture, and cut and fold in the beaten whites. 
Pour into a buttered mold, and steam one hour. Serve 
immediately with sugar and cream. 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lard J cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter I cup water 

J teaspoon baking powder 8 apples cored 

cinnamon and nutmeg 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt; work in lard and 
butter; when well mixed, add water. Cut paste in eight 
rounds, place apple in center of round, fill cavity with 
sugar and flavoring. Draw paste around apple; place in 
baking pan rough side down. Bake forty-five minutes. 
Serve with lemon or molasses sauce. 





Apple Sponge 


J cup sugar 


1 cup flour 


J cup milk 


2 teaspoons baking powder 


2 eggs 


5 sliced apples 




I teaspoon salt 



DESSERTS 217 

Beat eggs; add sugar, flour in which baking powder has 
been sifted, and milk. Beat well; add apples; pour into 
buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven one 
hour. Serve with Italian sauce. 

Baked Apples 

Remove the core from eight apples of uniform size. 
Place in baking dish, add one fourth cup water, and baste 
frequently, during baking, with sugar and water. 

Baked Apples No. 2 

Core eight apples, arrange in baking dish, fill cavities 
with butter and sugar, bake until tender, basting with 
sugar and water. When done, arrange in serving dish; 
sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

Apple Flame 

8 apples raspberry jam 

2 cups sugar rum or brandy 

1 cup water 1 cup beaten cream 

Pare and core the apples; boil sugar and water together 
ten minutes; arrange apples in buttered baking dish two 
inches apart; add syrup; cover and bake until apples are 
tender. Be careful to preserve shape of apples. 

Remove from dish; boil syrup until thick; fill cavities 
with jam, pour syrup around them, and just before send- 
ing to table pour over them brandy or rum. Light and 
serve. 

Apple Flamingo 

8 apples (red) 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons orange juice 
1 cup water grated rind one half lemon 
1 cup cream grated rind one half orange 

Wipe apples; arrange in baking dish; add sugar and 



218 lownet's cook book 

water, and cook until tender, turning so that all sides 
may be evenly cooked. Be sure and preserve the shape. 

Remove skin in a way to leave bright coloring on the 
apple. 

Boil syrup until thick, add fruit juice and rind, pour 
around apples, and garnish with beaten cream. 

Apple Souffle 

3 cups quartered apples 3 egg yolks 
2 tablespoons butter 6 egg whites 

I cup sugar nutmeg and lemon juice 

Steam apples; add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs and 
flavoring. Cool, cut and fold in beaten whites, turn into 
buttered pudding dish, and bake forty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Scalloped Apple 

1 cup sugar 1^ cup bread crumbs from center 
\ teaspoon cinnamon of loaf 

2 tablespoons lemon 4 cups sliced apples 
grated rind of one lemon \ teaspoon salt 

^ cup butter ^- cup water 

Arrange crumbs and apples in layers, in a buttered 
pudding dish, having crumbs on the top layer. Sprinkle 
each layer with siigar and cinnamon and dot with butter ; 
add lemon juice, lemon rind and water, just before 
sprinkling on the last layer. Bake in slow oven one hour. 

Apple Dumpling 

4 cups sliced apples \ teaspoon salt 
J cup water \ cup sugar 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder few gratings lemon rind 

Mix and sift dry ingredients except sugar. Add milk. 
Fill a buttered pudding dish with apples, add sugar and 



DESSERTS ■ ' 219 

lemon rind, cover with flour mixture, and steam one and 
one half hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Apple Nests 

8 apples 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons flour 3 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon salt 3 egg wliites 

Arrange cored and pared apples in a buttered baking 

dish. Mix sugar, flour, milk ; add yolks of eggs ; when 

well blended, the well-beaten whites. Pour this mixture 

over apples and bake in a moderate oven until apples are 

tender. 

Brown Betty 

Prepare the same as Scalloped Apple, adding one half 
teaspoon cloves, one half teaspoon allspice, one half cup 
molasses, and one cup raisins seeded and chopped. Bake 
in slow oven one hour. 

Apple Charlotte 

8 slices of bread 1 cup sugar 

J cup butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

6 apples J cup chopped almonds 

1 tablespoon butter 

Dip bread in melted butter ; butter mold ; cut bread 
into strips an inch wide and the height of the mold. 
Line bottom and sides of mold with bread. Pare and 
cut up apples; add sugar, water and lemon juice; cook 
until apples are soft. Add chopped almonds, one table- 
spoon butter ; pour into lined mold, cover with slices of 
buttered bread, and bake thirty minutes. Serve with 
lemon sauce or hard sauce. 

Apples on a Bed of Rice 

1 cup cooked rice 1 cup water 

8 apples 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups sugar strawberry jam 



220 lowney's cook book 

Press rice into charlotte russe mold; reheat in 
steamer. Pare and core apples; cook in syrup made of 
sugar and water until tender. Remove apples ; boil syrup 
until thick ; unmold rice ; arrange apples around rice, fill 
cavities in apples with jam, and pour sauce around them. 

Oranges on a Bed of Rice 

Prepare in the same way as Apples on a Bed of Rice, 
except quarter oranges and omit jam. 

Apple Batter Pudding 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 cups quartered apples 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons butter J cup sugar 

Mix sugar, salt, flour, eggs and milk. When smooth, 

add apples ; pour into buttered baking dish, and bake 

slowly in a moderate oven one hour. Serve immediately 

with wine sauce. 

Peach Batter Pudding 

Follow the rule for making Apple Batter Pudding, sub- 
stituting peaches for the apples. 

College Pudding 

1 cup butter J cup strained apple sauce 
1^ cups sugar J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs rind and juice of one lemon 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a pudding dish 
with plain paste, fill with apple mixture, and bake forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with butter and 

sugar. 

Apple Indian 

2 cups quartered apples J cup Indian meal 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons butter 

\ cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups milk cinnamon and nutmeg 



DESSERTS 221 



Scald milk ; pour on to Indian meal ; add remaining in- 
gredients ; pour into buttered baking dish, and cook in 
slow oven four hours, keeping dish covered until the last 
hour, stirring occasionally. 



Stewed Apples 
Pare and core eight apples. Arrange in baking dish; 
fill cavities with apple jelly and chopped raisins. Cook 
until tender, basting with hot water, sugar and lemon 
juice. Ten minutes before removing from oven, spear all 
over with slivers of blanched almonds. 



Vanilla Souffll 

^ cup butter 4 eggs 

^ cup flour J cup sugar 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

^ teaspoon salt 

Make a white sauce with flour, butter, salt and milk. 
Beat yolks of eggs ; add sugar, white sauce. Cut and fold 
in the well-beaten whites. Bake in individual ramekin 
dishes in a moderate oven, twenty to thirty minutes. 
Serve immediately with orange or sherry sauce. 



Orange SoufflS 

3 egg yolks rind of one half orange 

3 egg whites 1 tablespoon orange juice 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar ^ tablespoon lemon juice 

J teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick. Add sugar, 
fruit juice and rind. Carefully fold in beaten whites. 
Pour into buttered dish, and bake fifteen to twenty min- 
utes in moderate oven. Serve with strawberry sauce. 



222 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Bread Pudding 

2 cups bread crumljs ^ cup sugar 

4 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

cinnamon and nutmeg 

Soak bread in milk ; add beaten eggs and remaining in- 
gredients. Bake one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Bread Queen 

Use rule for Bread Pudding, using whites of four eggs 
for meringue, and the yolks in the pudding instead of the 
three eggs. Before spreading on meringue, cover pudding 
with a layer of jam. Brown meringue slightly in the 
oven, and serve pudding hot or cold with cream. 

Cracker Queen 

Substitute one and one half cups cracker crumbs for 
bread crumbs in Bread Pudding, and add one cup seeded 
raisins cut in small pieces. Bake the same as Bread Pud- 
ding. 

Buttered Bread Pudding 

Butter twelve slices of bread ; arrange in baking dish. 
Cover with four cups milk, four slightly beaten eggs, 
three fourths cup sugar, one half teaspoon salt, and the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon. Bake one and one 
half hours in slow oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cocoanut Pudding 
Use rule for Buttered Bread Pudding, sprinkle each 
bread layer with shredded cocoanut and chopped and 
seeded raisins. Serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Blueberry Dumpling 

4 cups blueberries 2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar ♦ 4 teaspoons bakiug powder 

1 teaspoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter | cup milk 



DESSHBT8 223 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt ; add butter, mix un- 
til mealy; add milk. Put sugar, berries and vinegar in 
bottom of buttered baking dish. Cover with flour mix- 
ture and steam forty-five minutes. Serve in dish in which 

it is cooked. 

Raspberry Dumpling 

Prepare in the same way as Steamed Blueberry Dump- 
ling, using four cups of raspberries instead of blueberries. 

Blackberry Dumpling 

Substitute blackberries for blueberries, and proceed as 
for Steamed Blueberry Dumpling. 

Cherry Duff 
Substitute two quarts cherries, in rule for making Blue- 
berry Dumpling. 

Peach Duff 

Use rule for Blueberry Dumpling, substituting one quart 
peaches for blueberries. 

Fruit Snowballs 
Use recipe for making Snow Puffs. When done, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and garnish with cherry sauce. 

Steamed Rice Pudding 

one cup rice IJ teaspoons salt 

8 cups cold water 

Cook in steamer until water is absorbed and each kernel 
is separated. The time depends upon the age of the rice. 

Caramel Rice Pudding 

1 cup rice 2 eggs 

6 cups milk 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt grated rind of one half orange 

Cook rice in milk, in double boiler, two hours ; then add 
salt, eggs slightly beaten, and orange rind. Caramelize 



224 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

the sugar. Wnen a golden brown liquid, pour into a hot 
pudding mold, coating the whole inner surface. Add rice 
mixture, cover and cook in oven in a pan of water twenty 
minutes. Remove from oven, let stand five minutes, turn 
on serving dish, and serve with soft custard. 

Snow Puffs 

I cup butter 2j cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
I- cup milk 4 egg whites 

J teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add sugar, flour, baking powder and salt 
alternately with milk. Beat well; add the stiffly beaten 
whites ; steam forty-five minutes in buttered popover 
cups. Serve with strawberry sauce. 

Blueberry Puffs 
Use rule for Snow Puffs and serve surrounded by a 
sauce made by cooking two cups blueberries and one cup 
sugar together twenty minutes. 

Cottage Pudding 

. 1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

J cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

\ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar together; add yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick, flour in which baking powder and salt 
have been sifted, alternately with milk ; beat well and add 
the well-beaten whites. Pour into a well-buttered pud- 
ding dish. Bake forty-five minutes. Serve with lemon, 
vanilla, or wine sauce. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding 
Prepare Jbhe same as Cottage Pudding. Pour into but- 
tered mold ; steam one and one half hours. Serve with 
lemon or strawberry sauce. 



DESSERTS 225 

ft 
Indian Pudding, Steamed 

1 cup corn meal ^ cup chopped suet 

I cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

few grains ginger 

Mix soda with sour milk, add other ingredients, pour 
into buttered mold, and steam four hours. Serve with 
molasses sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

6 cups milk 1 tablespoon butter 

J cup corn meal J teaspoon salt 

J cup molasses few grains ginger 

Scald one pint of milk with corn meal and cook twenty 
minutes; add remaining milk and rest of ingredients. 
Pour into deep earthen dish and bake, set in a pan of hot 
water, in a slow oven, four hours. The afternoon fire is 
the one best suited for cooking this pudding. 

Indian Rice Pudding 

4 cups milk 2 tablespoons butter 

J cup rice J teaspoon ginger 

^ cup molasses J teaspoon salt 

Mix ingredients in the order given, pour into deep bak- 
ing dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake two hours. 
Stir once during cooking. 

Indian Rice with Apples 

To Indian Rice Pudding, add two cups pared and quar- 
tered apples. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 

J cup pearl tapioca 1 cup molasses 

6 cups scalded milk J cup butter 

J cup Indian meal 2 teaspoons salt 

2 cups cold milk 

Soak tapioca in cold water over night. Cook Indian 
meal and scalded milk in double boiler twenty minutes; 



226 lowney'8 cook book 

add tapioca, molasses, butter, salt. Pour into buttered 
baking dish; cook two hours in slow oven. 

At the end of the first hour, add the cold milk. Serve 
hot with butter or cream. 

Rice Pudding 

J cup rice 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt \ cup seeded raisins 
^ teaspoon nutmeg 4 cups hot milk 

2 cups cold milk 

Mix first six ingredients; pour into buttered pudding 
dish; cook in a slow oven two hours, stirring occasionally 
the first hour. At the end of two hours add the cold milk 
and cook half an hour longer. 

Serve with sugar and cream. 

Christmas Plum Pudding 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups chopped suet 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup chopped raisins 6 eggs 

1 cup chopped citron \ cup brandy • 

1 cup cleaned currants J tablespoon lemon rind 

Mix ingredients; pour into buttered mold; cover and 
steam four hours; bake in oven one half hour. Serve with 
Wine Sauce. 

■ Graham Plum Pudding 

Ij cups graham flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses J teaspoon cloves 

I cup milk 1 egg 

1 cup seeded raisins \ teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons butter 

Beat egg; add liquids, fiour in which soda has been 
sifted, fruit, spices and melted butter. Pour into buttered 
baking powder tins and steam four hours. Serve with 
Brown __Sugar Sauce. 



DMS8BBT8 227 

Steamed Fig Pudding 

1 cup chopped figs 2^ cups soft bread crumbs 
J cup chopped suet J cup milk 

3 eggs 1 cup brown sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cover bread crumbs with milk. Chop figs and suet to- 
gether, add other ingredients, pour in buttered melon 
mold and steam from three and half to four hours. 
Serve with Stirling Sauce. 

Date Pudding 

Use rule for Fig Pudding, adding one cup each chopped 
dates and shredded almonds, and omit figs. 

Roley Poley Pudding 
EoU pastry or a baking-powder biscuit dough very thin, 
about one eighth of an inch in thickness, spread with jam, 
blackberry, black currant, or raspberry. Roll like a jelly 
roll, press, and close the ends as tight as possible. Tie in 
a floured cloth, and cook in boiling water two hours, or 
steam in steamer one hour. Remove from cloth and serve 
on hot platter with Foamy Sauce. 

Cream Croquettes 

2 cups milk scalded | cup sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

I cup cold milk ^ cup chopped almonds 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch and cold milk, add hot milk, and cook in 
double boiler until mixture thickens. Add eggs well 
beafen, sugar, almonds and vanilla. Cook two minutes. 
Pour into shallow pan; chill; cut into squares or rounds; 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper, roll in powdered sugar, and serve. Serve, 
with Lemon Sauce. 



228 lowney's cook book 

English Pudding 

\ cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup seeded raisins \ teaspoon cloves 

1 cup molasses \ teaspoon cinnamon 

I cup milk \ teaspoon mace 

1 teaspoon salt 3f cups flour 

Cream butter; add reraaining ingredients; pour into but- 
tered mold; steam four hours. Serve with Brandy Sauce 
or I^oamy Sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCES 
Apricot Sauce 

\ cup apricot jam, or \ cup water 

1 cup apricot juice 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

\ cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

few grains salt 

Boil all ingredients ten minutes. 

Apple Sauce 

1 cup chopped apple \ cup cold water 

1 tablespoon arrowroot few grains cinnamon 

few grains salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

grated rind of \ lemon 

Cook all together ten minutes. Strain, add more lemon 

juice if needed. 

Banana Sauce 

1 cup water 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

\ cup sugar 2 eggs. 

3 banana pulps few grains salt 

Boil sugar and water ten minutes. Mix remaining in- 
gredients and pour hot syrup on to them. Beat well and 

serve hot. 

Creamy Sauce 

J cup butter 2 tablespoons cream 

\ cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

Mix butter and sugar until creamy, add wine and 
cream. Cook over hot water until liquefied. 



BESSEBTS 229 

Cream Sauce 

1 cup powdered sugar 3 cups cream 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix egg yolk and sugar; add white of egg beaten until 
stiff, flavoring, and just before sending to the table the 
beaten cream. Serve cold. 

Cream Brandy Sauce 

1 cup water 3 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons brandy 

J cup cream few orange rind gratings 

few grains salt 

Cook sugar and v/ater ten minutes; beat yolks; add 
cream, brandy, salt, orange rind gratings. Add sugar and 
water slowly and beat until mixture thickens. 

Cream Sherry Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter | cup cream 

1 cup sugar 8 tablespoons sberry 

2 egg yolks few grains salt 

Mix butter, sugar, yolks and 'cream; cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens; add wine, and serve. 

Caramel Sauce 
1 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

Caramelize sugar in clean saucepan. When a light 
brown color, add water, and simmer fifteen minutes. 

Cherry Sauce 

1^ cups cherries i glass currant jelly 

1 cup claret juice and rind of J lemon. - 

^ cup sugar 1 inch stick cinnamon 

Remove stones from cherries and cook all ingredients 
together until syrupy. Strain and serve. 



280 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Claret Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup water 

1 cup claret 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy, add claret, and serve 

hot or cold. 

CofPee Sauce 

i cup sugar f cup blaek coffee 

2 eggs i cup cream 

few grains salt 

Mix eggs, sugar, salt and coffee, and cook in double 

boiler until mixture thickens. Chill; add beaten cream 

and serve cold. 

Currant Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup currant juice 

^ cup water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy ; add currant juice 
and lemon juice. Serve hot or cold. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 inch piece stick cinnamon 
J cup water i cup currant jelly 

Boil sugar, water and cinnamon until syrupy. Re- 
move cinnamon ; add jelly ; when melted, strain and serve. 

Custard Sauce 

2 cups mUk ^ cup sugar 

3 egg yolks 2 egg whites 

1 teaspoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

few grains salt 

Make a custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt ; when 
thick, add butter, flavoring and beaten whites. Serve cold. 

Foamy Sauce No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

3 egg whites rind and juice of 1 lemon 



JDESSEBTS 231 

Heat the milk. Beat egg whites until stiff ; add sugar, 
continue beating ; add milk and flavoring, continue beat- 
ing. Serve when foamy. 

Foamy Sauce No. 2 

I cup butter 1 egg yolk 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

2 egg whites 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolk of egg and wine. Cook 
over hot water, until hot. Remove from fire and add 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Foamy Sauce No. 3 

3 egg whites rind of ^ lemon 

J cup powdered sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon flavoring 

Beat whites until stiff; add sugar and flavoring and 

continue beating, adding hot water very gradually. Serve 

hot or cold. 

Fruit Sauce No. 1 

1 cup sugar ^ cup fruit juice 

1 cup water 2 tablespoons arrowroot 

Mix arrowroot, sugar and water ; boil ten minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Add fruit juice and cook until syrupy, 

and serve hot. 

Fruit Sauce No. 2 

1 cup sugar 1 cup pulp and juice of fruit 

J cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water until syrupy. Add lemon and 
fruit juice and pulp. Serve hot without straining. 

Grape Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 cup grape juice 

\ cup water 1 tablespoon orange or lemon juice 

Boil all together until syrupy. Serve hot or cold. 



232 LOWNEY'S COOK BOO^K 

Hard Sauce Wo. i 

\ cup butter wine, brandy, or vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon hot water 

Cream butter ; add sugar by the teaspoon, and beat until 
light and creamy. Flavor and serve. 

Hard Sauce No. 2 

i cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon brandy 

i cup beaten cream. 

Cream butter ; add sugar and cream alternately, flavor- 
ing, and serve very cold. 

Stirling Sauce 

J cup butter 3 tablespoons milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons wine 

Mix sugar, wine and milk, and warm in double boiler 
or over hot water. Add to creamed butter slowly. Do 
not permit the sugar mixture to become hot, only warm. 

Kirsch Sauce 

Use rule for Stirling Sauce, substituting one fourth cup 

kirsch for wine. 

Lemon Sauce 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or corn- 1 cup sugar 

starch grated rind and juice one lenion 

2 cups water \\ tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot and cornstarch with sugar. Add boil- 
ing water and cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and 

butter. Serve hot. 

Maple Sauce 

2 egg yolks \ cup beaten cream 

\ cup maple syrup few grains salt 

Beat yolks until thick ; add maple syrup and cook until 
it thickens. Add beaten cream, salt. Chill and serve. 



DESSEBTS 233 



Maraschino Sauce 



1 cup sugar 2 cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon arrowroot 2 tablespoons maraschino 

Mix sugar, arrowroot and boiling water; boil ten min- 
utes. Add marascbino. Chill and serve. 

Orange Sauce No. i 

grated rind, juice, and pulp of 3 3 egg wtiites 

oranges 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

J cup powdered sugar 

Beat whites until stiff ; add remaining ingredients. 

Serve cold. 

Orange Sauce No. 2 

Make the same as Lemon Sauce, substituting the juice 
and rind of two oranges for lemon. 

Rum Sauce 

J cup powdered sugar 2 egg whites 

2 egg yolks 3 tablespoons rum 

J cup beaten cream 

Mix sugar, yolks of eggs and rum, then the stiffly- 
beaten whites. Cook until thick ; add the beaten cream. 

Chill and serve. 

Sabayon Sauce No. i 

4 egg yolks 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

J cup wine 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix all ingredients and, just before serving, cook over 
hot water until it begins to thicken. 

Sabayon Sauce No. 2 

1 whole egg ^ cup sugar 

2 egg yolks ^ cup sherry 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix all ingredients and cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens. 



234 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Sauce 

I cup butter 1 cup strawberries 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 beaten egg white 

Cream butter ; add sugar, egg white ; beat well ; add 
strawberries crushed to a pulp. Serve. 

Vanilla Sauce 

J cup butter 1 cup cream 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Cream butter ; add sugar, beaten cream and flavoring. 
Heat over hot water until all is liquid. Serve hot. 

Brown Sugar Sauce 

i cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup brown sugar | cup cream 

Mix cream and brown sugar, and add to creamed butter 
very gradually. When of creamy consistency, add flavor- 
ing. 

Italian Sauce 

^ tablespoons butter 3 egg yolks 

1 cup powdered sugar juice and rind of 1 lemon 

2 teaspoons cornstarch J cup boiling water 

J cup candied cherries J cup angelica cut in pieces 

Cream butter ; add sugar and cornstarch, yolks of eggs 
well beaten, and boiling water ; boil three minutes ; add 
remaining ingredients and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 ounces Lowneys Premium J cup water 

Chocolate ; '.J ^j- >. .A'^ii 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup sugar ' J teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook all the ingredients except vanilla 12 minutes ; add 
vanilla, and serve hot. This sauce is especially good 
served with vanilla ice cream, but is good with any gela- 
tine dessert. 



DE88EBT8 235 

Orange Chocolate Sauce 

3 tablespoons Lowney's Premium 4 tablespoons sugar 

Chocolate grated J cup rich milk 

3 tablespoons butter J cup orange juice 

3 egg yolks grated rind of 1 orange 

Melt chocolate in top of double boiler ; add butter, stir 
until well mixed ; add egg yolks, one at a time, sugar, and 
milk. Cook until thickened, add orange juice and rind, 
and serve at once. 

Chocolate Cream Sauce 

I cup powdered sugar | teaspoon salt 

1 cup cream 4 tablespoons hot water 

J cup Lowney's Premium Choco- 1 egg white 

late grated 1 teaspoon almond extract, or 

1 tablespoon cordial 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar and boiling water ; cook until 
glossy. Cool. Beat cream until stiff ; add chocolate mix- 
ture gradually ; cut and fold in beaten white. Flavor and 
serve. One half cup Lowney*s Cocoa may be substituted 
for the chocolate. 

PASTRY 
Rule for lining Plate and making Cover for Pie with Two Crusts 

EoU the paste one quarter inch thick. Cut paste an 
eighth of an inch larger than plate. Cut strips three 
quarters inch wide for a rim. Cut upper crust at least 
one eighth inch larger than plate. Arrange lower crust 
on plate, wet edges with cold water, lay strips of paste or 
rim on this, taking care to lap and seal the ends with cold 
water. Fill the pie with whatever material is to be used. 
Cut little slits in center of upper crust. Lay on pie ; wet 
edges of rim. Have all edges even, leaving fullness in 
center to allow for shrinking. Press edges lightly but 
firmly. 



236 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Rule for making a Pie with Under Crust only- 
Roll pas'te one eighth inch thick. Cut one inch larger 
than plate. Spread on plate; fold edge under, making 
paste the size of plate. This edge may be fluted or plain. 
Chill before filling. 

Rule for Baking Pies 

Perforated tin pie plates secure a well-baked under 

crust. Place pie in hot oven at first, reducing heat after 

crust becomes hardened. Turn frequently while baking, 

and bake until a golden brown — about forty-five minutes. 

Chopped Paste 

Ij cups flour 4 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons lard ^ teaspoon salt 

cold water 

Sift salt and flour ; add lard or butter when thoroughly 
chilled. Chop until like meal ; add cold water to make 
a stiff dough. Chill ; roll on a floured cloth or molding 
board into a rectangular shape ; fold ends towards center, 
double, turn halfway round, and roll again. 

This paste is a superior one. Chill before rolling for 

pies. 

Plain Paste 

Use same rule as for Chopped Paste. Chop lard into 
sifted flour ; when thoroughly mixed, add salt and water 
to form dough. Chill; roll in rectangular piece; place 
butter which has previously been shaped, flattened, and 
chilled on middle of one side of paste ; fold over other side, 
press edges together, and fold one end under and one end 
over butter, making six layers. Roll again into rectangle ; 
fold in same way, and so continue three times. If butter 
begins to soften, roll paste in cheese cloth and place on ice 
until hard enough to roll easily. Be careful not to wet 
the cheese cloth. 



DESSEMTS 237 

Puff Paste 

1 pound butter 1 pound flour 

cold water 

Shape and flatten butter into a round cake. Chill. 
Sift flour several times ; add cold water to form a dough 
a little stiffer than for baking powder biscuit. Chill. 
Place butter in same way as directed in Plain Paste and 
roll paste seven times. Chill if necessary between each 
rolling. 

Apple Pie 

Use either Puff or Plain Paste. For filling for a medium- 
sized pie tin, three cups pared and sliced apples, one half 
cup sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt, one tablespoon butter, 
one fourth teaspoon cinnamon, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
and grated rind of one half lemon. 

Apple Pie No. 2 
Use either Puff or Plain Paste. For filling use rule for 
Apple Sauce, and season to taste. 

Blueberry Pie 
Line a deep perforated tin with Plain or Chopped Paste ; 
brush with water or white of egg. Fill with floured blue- 
berries ; add sugar, butter, salt and vinegar. Allow one 
cup of sugar to three cups of berries, one tablespoon butter, 
one eighth teaspoon salt, and one half teaspoon vinegar. 
Cover with crust and bake. 

Blackberry Pie 
Use rule for Blueberry Pie, omitting flour and vinegar. 

Cranberry Pie 
Use Plain or Chopped Paste. Fill with two cups cran- 
berries, one and one half cups sugar, one quarter cup water, 
and one tablespoon butter. Cover with upper crust or a 



238 lownet's cook book 

lattice of paste strips ; or bake without any upper crust. 
Decorate when done with pastry baked in fancy shapes. 

Cranberry Pie No. 2 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix one and one quarter 
cups chopped cranberries, one half cup chopped raisins, 
one cup sugar, one quarter cup water, and one tablespoon 
butter. 

This is sometimes called Mock Cherry Pie. 

Currant Pie 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two cups cleaned, 
fresh currants, two cups sugar, two tablespoons flour, two 
eggs, and one eighth teaspoon salt. 

Bake with two crusts ; or omit upper crust and cover 
with meringue when cooked. 

Custard Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling, mix three 

eggs, one fourth cup sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt, one 

eighth teaspoon nutmeg, and two cups milk. Bake 'in 

slow oven. 

Citron Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling, mix two cups 
seeded raisins chopped, two cups citron chopped, one and 
one half cups sugar, grated rind of one lemon, four table- 
spoons lemon juice, one eighth teaspoon salt. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a plate with Plain Paste ; fill with following mix- 
ture : two cups milk, three egg yolks, one half cup sugar, 
two tablespoons cornstarch, one cup grated cocoanut, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
and one tablespoon butter. 



DE8SEBTS 239 



Date Pie 



Use Plain Paste. Add one and one half cups of dates, 
which have been cooked in boiling water until tender and 
pressed through a sieve, to Custard Pie filling. 



Lemon Pie 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two tablespoons corn- 
starch, one cup sugar, and one half cup boiling water, boil 
five minutes, add one tablespoon butter, juice and rind of 
one lemon, and two eggs well beaten. 

Lemon Pie No. 2 

Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix one cup sugar, yolks 
of four eggs, one eighth teaspoon salt, one cup milk, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, and the whites of four eggs 
beaten until stiff. Cover with meringue when done. 

Mince Pie 

Use Plain Paste for under crust, fill with mince-meat, 
cover with Puff Paste. 

Peach Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. For filling use two cups 
peaches, cut into eighths, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
butter, one eighth teaspoon salt, and two tablespoons water. 

Plum Pie 

Use Plain or Chopped Paste. Remove stones from two 
cups plums; add one half cup sugar; dredge with flour; add 
two tablespoons lemon juice and one tablespoon butter. 

Prune Pie 

Substitute prunes for plums and follow rule for Plum 
Pie. 



240 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Pumpkin Pie 

Line pie plate with Plain Paste. For filling, mix one 
and one half cups stewed and strained pumpkin, one and 
one half cups milk, one egg, three fourths cup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, one half teaspoon each, of 
salt and ginger, and one teaspoon cinnamon. 

Chocolate Gream Pie 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 2 egg whites 

Chocolate or \ cup sugar 

\ cup of Lowney's Cocoa 3 egg yolks 

\ cup cornstarch \ teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Melt two squares Lowney's Chocolate or one half cup 
Lowney's Cocoa, add sugar, cornstarch, egg yolks, salt 
and milk. Cook in double boiler till thick, stirring con- 
stantly; flavor with vanilla. Pour into a baked piecrust 
shell, cover with a meringue made by beating egg whites 
till stiff and adding two tablespoons sugar; brown in oven 
and serve cold. See colored illustration, Plate VIII. 

Rhubarb Pie 
Use Plain Paste. For filling, mix two cups rhubarb cut 
in inch' pieces, one cup sugar, two tablespoons each of • 
butter and flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon salt, and 
one teaspoon lemon juice. 

Squash Pie 

Use Chopped Paste. For filling, mix one cup stewed 
and strained squash, one half cup sugar, one half teaspoon 
salt, two eggs, one half teaspoon cinnamon, one fourth 
teaspoon nutmeg, and one half cup milk. 

A very good pie may be made by using one and one 
half cups of the squash left from dinner, sweetening and 
seasoning it without adding eggs. 



DESSEBTS 241 

Mince Pie Filling 

3 lbs. lean beef finely chopped # 2 tablespoons salt 

2 lbs. suet finely chopped 4 cups sugar 

3 qts. apples finely chopped 1 cup coffee 
3 lbs. raisins seeded and chopped 2 cups cider 

2 lbs. currants 1 teaspoon cloves 

3 lbs. citron cut in small pieces 1 teaspoon allspice 

I cup candied orange peel chopped 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I cup candied lemon peel chopped 3 cups brandy 

I cup lemon juice 1 cup sherry 

J cup orange juice 1 cup currant jelly 

Mix all ingredients except brandy and sherry, and cook 
two hours; add liquor; let stand in crock for a week before 
using. 

Vol-au-vent 

■Roll Puff Paste one half inch thick. Cut out in desired 
shape, wet edges, and place one inch rim on wet edge. 
Prick several times in center that paste may rise evenly. 
Chill. Cut cover the size of space inside the rim. Decorate 
top of cover with paste circles, crescents, or diamonds, 
always wetting under surface with cold water before ar- 
ranging. Chill before baking. 

Pat6 Shells 

Roll Puff Paste one third inch thick; shape with round 
cutter; cut rings from one half the rounds. Place rings 
on rounds, using cold water to hold them together. Chill 
until stiff before baking. 

Bouchles 

Roll Puff Paste one fourth inch thick. Cut with small 
round cutter; make impression on round with smaller 
round cutter. Chill untit stiff before baking. , 



242 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Tarts 

Roll Puff Paste a little less than one fourth inch in 
thickness. Cut in rounds, squares, or diamonds; put on 
rim, wetting edges. Chill and hake. 

Vol-au-vent No. 2 

Cover the outside of a charlotte russe mold with Puff 
Paste, cut one fourth inch thick. Prick surface of paste, 
chill, and bake. Cut a cover for vol-au-vent to fit mold; 
prick, chill, and bake. Remove vol-au-vent from mold 
immediately after baking. 

Rule for Baking Puff Paste 

Always chill Puff Paste before baking. Place in very 
hot oven; protect upper surface of paste, if necessary, at 
first. 

P&tes should be baked in twenty -four minutes; after the 
first fifteen, decrease heat. 

Vol-au-vent should bake forty -five minutes to one hour, 
and should be turned frequently. Remove soft inside 
portion as soon as taken from oven. Tarts and bouchees 
should be baked the same as pS,tes. 

Frangipane Tartlets 

Cover fluted patty tins with Puff Paste. Make covers 
a little larger than patty tins. Bake in a hot oven. FUl 
with Frangipane Cream. Cover with meringue, and deco- 
rate with cherries, angelica, and blanched and browned 

almonds. 

Frangipane Cream 

Mix two tablespoons flour, one fourth cup powdered 
sugar, and one fourth cup cream until smooth. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring constantly; add four Qgg yolks, one 
tablespoon each of sherry, lemon juice, lemon rind, and 



DE88EST8 243 

chopped citron. Cook in double boiler until mixture 
thickens. 

Almond Sticks 

Roll Puff Paste one eighth inch thick. Brush with 
white of egg, sprinkle with shredded almonds and pow- 
dered sugar. Cut into strips one half inch wide and three 
inches long. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cheese Straws 

Roll Puff Paste — trimmings will do for this purpose 
— one eighth inch thick. Sprinkle with salt, cayenne 
pepper, and grated cheese. To keep these ingredients on 
the paste, pat and fold in three layers. Roll again, spread, 
fold, and roll as before. Cut in strips half inch wide and 
five inches long. 

Banbury Tarts 

Make tarts and fill with the following cooked mixture : 
mix for filling, one cup seeded and chopped raisins, one 
cup sugar, three tablespoons cracker crumbs, one egg, one 
tablespoon butter, one eighth teaspoon salt, juice and rind 
of one lemon. 

Banbury Squares 

Roll Chopped Paste one fourth inch thick ; cut in three 
inch squares. Put one and one half teaspoons Banbury 
mixture on one side of square, wet edges, fold to make a 
triangle, prick, and bake. 

Apple Tarts 

Fill tarts with Apple Sauce to which has been added 
one tablespoon butter. 

Cranberry Tarts 

Fill tarts with cranberry filling used for Cranberry 
Pie. 



244 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Lemon Tarts 

Fill tarts with Lemon Cream used for Lemon Pie, 
cooked in double boiler until thick. 

Peach Tarts 

Cook two cups peaches cut in eighths, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon butter, and a few 
grains salt, until peaches are tender. Cool and fill tarts. 

Pineapple Tarts 

Cook one cup grated pineapple, one fourth cup sugar, 
two egg yolks, grated rind and juice of one lemon, and 
few grains of salt, until thick. Chill and fill tarts. 

Gooseberry Tart 

For this tart cover the outside of a round agate-ware 
baking dish, with Chopped Paste. Chill, bake. For fill- 
ing mix four cups gooseberries, one cup sugar, few grat- 
ings, lemon rind, few gratings nutmeg. Stew until 
gooseberries are tender; add two tablespoons butter. 
Use hot or cold in paste shell. Serve with cream or soft 
custard. 

Lemon Crisps 

Cut Puff Paste in strips four inches long and one inch 
wide, rolled one fourth inch in thickness. Arrange in 
pairs with Lemon Filling between. 

Orange Crisps 

Prepare the same as Lemon Crisps, using Orange 
Filling. 

Chantilly Tarts 

Fill tarts with strawberry jam ; serve with whipped 
cream. 



DESSERTS 245 

Crisp a la Russe 

Roll Puff Paste one eighth inch thick. Cut in strips 
two inches wide and four inches long. Spread one half 
with jam or jelly, fold over other half, press edges together, 
bake in hot oven. Brush with white of egg, sprinkle with 
almonds. Brown in oven. 



CHAPTER XIV 
CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 

Suggestions for making and baking Cake 

1st. G,et all materials needed together. 

2d. Attend to fire, making sure, if it is a coal fire, 
that there is sufficient coal to last through the baking. 

3d. Measure all ingredients with same cup, dry ones 
first. 

4th. Mix and sift all dry ingredients except sugar; if 
soda is used, sift through a very fine sieve before sifting 
with other ingredients. 

Mixing Butter Cakes 

Cream Butter. — Cream butter, that is, beat it with a 
spoon until it is of a creamy consistency ; then add sugar 
very gradually ; when well blended, add yolks of eggs 
which have been beaten with a Dover Qgg beater until 
lemon-colored and thick. 

When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, add 
sifted dry ingredients alternately with the milk. When 
all milk and flour have been used, beat well ; then cut 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
buttered and papered pan, having mixture a little higher 
on the sides than in the middle. 

Cutting and Folding. — Cut through and through the 
mixture with a knife or side of a wooden spoon, fold by 
turning the spoon completely over, thereby blending the 
materials without breaking the air bubbles. Never stir 
or beat after cutting and folding. 

246 



CAKE AND CdOKIES; FR0STIN08 AND FILLINGS 247 

Mixing Sponge Cake 

Beat yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add 
sugar and continue beating; add flour; when well blended, 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into buttered and papered pan; bake in a round pan with 
a tube in the center. 

Baking Cake 

For baking both sponge and butter c£fkes. divide the 
time into quarters. The first quarter, the calfe should 
rise; the second quarter, form a crust and begin to brown; 
third quarter, continue browning; and fourth quarter, 
finish browning and shrink from the pan. When baked, 
this may be determined by pressing crust with the finger; 
if a depression is left the cake is not done; if the cake 
springs back and leaves no depression, it is done. Take 
from oven, invert on a cake cooler, remove paper, turn 
right-side up and cool. When cold, frost. 

Time for Baking Cake 

Thin cakes and individual cakes require from" twelve to 
fifteen minutes to bake ; loaf cakes from thirty to sixty 
minutes according to size. 

If the cake rises unevenly, the mixture is too thick or 
the oven is too hot. 

If the oven seems too hot, when the cake is ready for 
the oven, put the cake in the oven, but do not close the 
oven door for the first five or ten minutes of baking. 

To grease Tins 

Warm pans slightly; brush with melted lard, suet, or 
clarified butter ; cover bottom of pan only with tissue 
paper, then grease the paper. 

Lard or suet is less apt to brown than butter, but 



248 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

many object to their use ; if so, clarify the butter, by melt- 
ing butter, letting stand until salt has settled to the 
bottom, then pouring off the liquid butter. 

CAKE 

Plain Chocolate Cake 

i cup butter 4 ounces Lowney's Premium Chocolate 

Ij cups sugar 5 tablespoons boiling -water 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder | cup milk 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter; add the sugar very gradually, yolks 
of eggs well beaten, flour in which the baking powder and 
salt have been sifted, milk, and chocolate mixed with 
water. Beat well; add beaten whites, pour into buttered 
pans, and bake forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 
This cake may be baked in small cakes by omitting one 
fourth cup flour. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium Choc- 2 cups flour 

olate 3 eggs 

IJ cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup butter \ teaspoon salt 

J cup milk 3 tablespoons boiling water 

Melt chocolate, add boiling water, and cook over hot 
water until smooth. Cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
when of a creamy consistency, add chocolate mixture, 
yolks of eggs well beaten, flour in which salt and baking 
powder have been sifted, and milk. Beat well; cut and 
fold in well-beaten whites; add flavoring. Pour into 
buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven thirty or forty 
minutes. Frost with white or chocolate frosting. 

This mixture may be used for layer cakes by omitting 
one fourth cup flour and baking in layer cake pans. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FEOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 249 



Chocolate Raisin Cake 



1 cup butter 
IJ cups sugar 
f cup milk 

5 egg yolks 
\ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sherry or brandy 



2 squares Lowney's Premium 

Chocolate, grated 
J teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups seeded raisins 
3^ cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 



5 egg whites 
Cream butter; add sugar gradually, grated chocolate, 
raisins, cinnamon, baking powder and salt sifted with 
flour, milk. Beat 'well; add flavoring and well-beateij 
whites of eggs. Bake in deep buttered pans, forty minutes. 
This amount will make two loaves. The wine or brandy 
may be omitted, in which case, use one cup of milk instead 
of three fourths cup. 



Chocolate Pound Cake 

1 cup butter | cup Lowney's Premium Choco- 

1 cup sugar late, grated 

5 egg yolks 2 cups flour 

5 egg whites i cup brandy 

1 cup citron cut in small pieces 
I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon- colored, flour, citron, salt. Beat 
well; cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. 
Pour into buttered pans and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. This cake may be baked in a buttered dripping 
pan and when cold cut into fancy shapes and iced. 



J cup butter 

IJ cups sugar 

4 eggs 

J cup Lowney's Cocoa 



Cocoa Cake 

i cup milk 
IJ- cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
J teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



250 lowney's cook book 

Mix in the order given and beat well for five minutes. 
Bake in buttered pan thirty to forty minutes in moderate 
oven. 

Walnut Chocolate Cake 

\ cup Lowney's Always Ready 1 cup sugar 
Chocolate Powder 2 egg yojks 

\ cup butter 2|- teaspoons baking powder 

\\ cups flour 2 tablespoons hot water 

J cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup walnut meats salt 

Cream butter; add sugar, yolks of eggs well beaten and 
flour in which baking powder has been sifted, milk, and 
chocolate which has been moistened with hot water ; 
beat well and add walnut meats. Bake in buttered jelly 
cake pans about twenty minutes. 

Spread one cake with one half cup of Lowney's Sweet 
Chocolate Powder moistened with one fourth cup boiling 
water and flavored with one teaspoon vanilla. Sprinkle 
with broken walnuts, cover with other cake, and ice 
with white frosting. See colored illustration, Plate IX, 
opposite. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

\ cup Lowney's Always Ready whites of 3 eggs 

Chocolate Powder 2 tablespoons hot water 

yolks of 3 eggs \ teaspoon salt 

\ cup sugar J cup pastry flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar and 
continue beating. Mix chocolate with water, add to sugar 
mixture; cut and fold in flour, salt and beaten whites. 
Flavor and bake in buttered pan in a moderate oven three 
quarters of an hour. See colored illustration, Plate X, 
opposite. 






€^i 




WALNUT CHOCOLATE CAKE 
Plate IX. Fur Recipe see page 250 




CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 
Plate X. For Recipe see page 250 




COCOA PARFAIT 
Plate XI. For Recipe see page 2S9 




COCOA FRAPPE 
Plate XII. For Recipe see page 2S2 



CAKE AND cookies; FR0STING8 AND FILLINGS 251 

Chocolate Nut Cakes 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 2^ cups flour 

Chocolate, grated ^ cup milk 

1^ cups sugar 8 egg whites 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup nut meats broken in pieces salt 
J cup butter 

Cream butter ; add sugar, flour in which baking powder 
has been sifted, and milk, and beat well ; add whites of 
eggs beaten stiff and nut meats; then add chocolate and 
Yanilla. Pour into buttered gem pans and bake in hot 
oven twenty-five minutes. 

Simple Butter Cake 
J cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar i teaspoons baking powder 

4 egg yolks 4 egg whites 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon flavoring 

J teaspoon salt 

Follow directions for making Butter Cake, and bake in 

a loaf in a moderate oven forty minutes, or in rounds 

twenty minutes. 

Currant Cake 

Add one cup currants to Simple Butter Cake. Bake 

in loaves or rounds. 

Layer Cake 

Bake Simple Butter Cake in four square shallow pans. 

Fill with lemon cream, cocoanut cream, chocolate cream, 

or I'elly. 

Gold Cake 

f cup butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

IJ cups sugar IJ cups milk 

8 egg yolks J teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon lemon extract, or 

2J cups flour 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Follow directions for Butter Cake, and bake in loaves 

or rounds. 



252 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Silver Cake 

J cup butter \ teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar \ cup milk 

2 cups pastry flour 8 egg whites 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon almond extract 

Follow directions for mixing Butter Cake. Bake in 
loaves or rounds in a moderate oven. 

Nut Cake 

Add one cup chopped walnuts to Silver Cake mixture, 
and flavor with vanilla instead of almond. 

Orange Cake 

^ cup butter \\ cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 egg yolks | cup milk 

\ teaspoon salt 2 egg whites 

1 tablespoon orange extract 

Mix as Butter Cake, and bake in two-layer cake pans 
twenty minutes. Cool, fill with orange filling, and cover 
with orange frosting. 

Cream Pie 

Use rule for Orange Cake. Fill with cream filling, and 
sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

Spice Cake 

J cup butter 2 cups flour 

IJ cups brown sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

J cup milk J teaspoon nutmeg 

\ teaspoon salt \ teaspoon clove 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add butter, sugar, eggs, 
and milk, and beat until smooth. Bake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. One cup chopped raisins, or one cup 
chopped dates may be added to this cake. 



CAKE AND cookies; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 253 

Marble Cake 

i cup butter J teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar J teaspoon nutmeg 

2 egg yolks J teaspoon salt 
i cup milk If cups of flour 

2 egg whites 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon molasses 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolks of eggs beaten until 
thick, flour in which baking powder has been sifted, alter- 
nately with milk and egg whites, beaten until stiff. To 
one third of this mixture add the spices. Pour into pan 
the light and dark mixtures irregularly. 



Jelly Roll 



3 egg yolks 
IJ cups sugar 
i cup water 
J teaspoon salt 



2 cups pasti-y flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 egg whites 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



Sift baking powder and salt with flour, and follow 
directions for making Sponge Cake. Pour into medium- 
sized buttered dripping pan to depth of one half inch. 
Bake in a moderate oven ten to twelve minutes ; turn on 
to a wet cheese cloth sprinkled with confectioners' sugar. 
Cut off edges of cake, spread with warm jelly, and roll. 
Work quickly. 

Pound Cake 

1 pound butter 1 pound flour 

1 pound sugar J cup wine 

10 eggs J cup brandy 

few gratings nutmeg 

Cream butter ; add flour. When well blended, add 
yolks of eggs beaten until thick, then sugar with nutmeg, 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and wine and brandy. 
Bake in loaves or small cakes. 



254 



LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Fruit Cake 



1 pound sugar (brown) 
1 pound butter 
12 eggs 
1 pound flour 
J teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon each, nutmeg and 
mace 

Cream butter ; add sugar, 
ing ingredients. Pour into 
Steam three hours and bake 



2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 cups raisins 

4 cups currants 

4 cups chopped almonds 

4 cups chopped citron 

juice and rind of 1 lemon 

J cup brandy 

eggs well beaten, and remain- 
buttered and papered pans, 
two hours. 



Raised Fruit Cake 

4 cups flour J yeast cake dissolved in one half 

1 cup butter cup water 

IJ cups sugar 2 eggs 

J cup milk \ cup wine 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 cup citron 

Mix all ingredients except eggs and fruit. Raise over 
night. In the morning add eggs and fruit ; cover and 
raise again ; pour into buttered and papered pans ; let it 
rise one hour. Bake in moderate oven one and one half to 
two hours. 



Imperial Cake 

2 cups seeded raisins 
IJ caps currants 
1 cup citron 

i cup candied orange peel 
J cup brandy 

3 egg whites 
J teaspoon salt 

Mix as Butter Cake, adding fruit last. Bake in but- 
tered and papered pans in a moderate oven one hour. 



J cup butter 

IJ cups sugar 

3 egg yolks 

2J cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

\ cup milk 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 255 

Fig Cake 
Use rule for Orange Cake. Bake in layers. Fill with 
Fig Filling, and sprinkle with confectioners' sugar. 

Marshmallow Cake 

Bake Silver Cake in layers. Fill and frost with Marsh- 
mallow Frosting. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake 

Add four squares melted chocolate to Silver Cake. 

Bake in layers, and fill and cover with Marshmallow 

Frosting. 

Mocha Cake 

Use rule for Hot Water Sponge Cake. Bake in layers. 
Cool ; cut in rounds ; arrange in three layers, with con- 
fectioners' frosting between ; spread sides and top with 
Mocha Frosting; sprinkle sides with cocoanut, and gar- 
nish top with Mocha Frosting, put through pastry bag. 

If a coffee cake is preferred, substitute hot coffee for 
hot water in Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

Plain Sponge Cake. 

8 eggs weight of eggs in sugar 

J weight of eggs in flour 3 tatilespoons lemon juice 

Beat yolks ten minutes; add sugar; beat iive minutes; 
add lemon juice and flour; when well blended, add stiffly 
beaten whites, cutting and folding them in. 

Pour into angel cake pan and bake in a moderate oven 

one hour. 

Plain Sponge Cake No. 2 

1 cup powdered sugar grated rind J lemon 

f cup flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

J teaspoon salt 4 eggs 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar, 

rind and juice of lemon. Cut and fold in the well-beaten 



256 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

whites, also the sifted flour. When thoroughly blended, 

pour into buttered and papered pan and bake thirty to 

forty minutes. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 cup flour 3 egg whites 

1 tablespoon lemon juice J teaspoon salt 

Beat egg yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add 
sugar and continue beating. Add flour, mixed and sifted 
with baking powder and salt, hot water, and whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff, with lemon juice added. 

Simple Chocolate Cake 

3 eggs grated rind and juice of J lemon 

^ cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

J teaspoon salt J teaspoon cinnamon 

-J cup Lowney's Cocoa J teaspoon baking powder 

J teaspoon vanilla i teaspoon clove 

Mix cocoa, spice, flour, baking powder, and salt;, beat the 
yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick ; add sugar and 
beat well; add lemon juice and rind; when well blended, 
add chocolate mixture and the beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in buttered shallow pans twenty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. When cool put together with chocolate frost- 
ing or currant jelly or White Mountain Cream. 

Cold Water Sponge Cake 

6 eggs J^^ 4 cup cold water 

3 cups sugar * "^IT 3 cups flour 

grated rind and juice of J lemon 3 teaspoons baking powder 
J teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks of eggs until lemon-colored and thick; add 
sugar, rind and juice of lemon, water, flour in which salt 
and baking powder has been sifted. When well blended. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 257 

cut and fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two 
pans thirty to forty minutes. 



Cream Sponge Cake 

1 cup sugar grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

i cup water 1| cups flour 

5 egg yolks 5 egg whites 

Cook water and sugar until it threads. Beat egg yolks 
until lemon-colored and thick. Add sugar syrup, lemon 
juice and rind, and beat until mixture is cold. Cut and 
fold in the beaten whites and flour. Bake in an angel 
cake pan forty to fifty minutes.. 

True Sponge Cake 

6 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar juice and rind one lemon 

^ teaspoon salt 

Follow directions for making Sponge Cake. Bake in a 
deep pan forty to sixty minutes. 

Angel Cake 

1 cup granulated sugar J- teaspoon salt 

1 cup egg whites 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg whites on platter with wire beater. When 
foamy, add cream of tartar ; when stiff, add sugar gradu- 
ally. Sift flour four times with salt. J|^ut and fold into 
egg mixture. Add vanilla, bake oiS^pour in moderate 
oven in angel cake pan. Invert pan on cake cooler and 
allow it to drop out itself. If too brown, wrap in wet 
cheese cloth for ten minutes ; then brown may be easily 
removed. 



258 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Sunshine Cake 

1 cup sugar J teaspoon cream of tartar 

5 egg yolks 6 egg whites 

J teaspoon salt IJ tablespoons orange juice 

I cup flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar 
and flavoring and continue beating. Mix and sift flour 
and cream of tartar four times. Cut and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites, alternately with flour. Bake in an angel 
cake pan one hour in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Cake 

J cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 4 ounces chocolate, melted 

J cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Follow rule for mixing Butter Cake and bake in loaf or 
rounds in moderate oven. 

Almond Cake 

Use rule for Silver Cake. Bake in shallow pan; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and chopped almonds. Bake twenty 
to thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

Bride's Cake 

Use rule for Silver Cake and bake in angel cake pan forty 
to sixty minutes. 

Lemon Queens 

i cup butter 4 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar , grated rind 1 lemon 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 

Make as Butter Cake and bake in buttered lemon queen 
pans twenty to thirty minutes. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FJROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 259 

Cream Puffs 

1 cup boiling water 5 eggs 

J cup butter 1 tablespoon sugar 

1| Clips flour I teaspoon salt 

Boil sugar, water and butter one minute; add flour all 
at once. When mixture leaves side of the pan in a mass, 
add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly. When all 
eggs are used, beat five minutes ; drop from tip of table- 
spoon on to a buttered sheet and bake one half hour in 
quick oven. Fill with cream filling, strawberry filling, 
chocolate filling, or whipped cream. 

Eclairs 

Use rule for Cream Puffs. Put mixture in pastry bag or 
shape in strips three and one half inches long and one inch 
wide, on buttered sheet. Bake twenty to thirty minutes 
in quick oven. 

Fill with cream, chocolate, coffee, or strawberry filling, 
and brush tops with melted fondant, chocolate frosting, or 
confectioners' frosting. 

Lady Fingers 

6 eggs grated rind 1 lemon 

I cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour powdered sugar 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick; add sugar 
and continue beating. Add lemon rind and the egg whites, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Cut and fold in the flour and salt. 
Shape on buttered sheet, using tablespoon or pastry bag 
and tube, four inches long and one inch wide. Sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar. 

Bake twelve minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



260 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Sponge Drops 
Use rule for Lady Fingers. Drop from a tablespoon in 
rounds the size of a silver dollar on buttered sheet. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake as Lady Fingers. 

Sugar Cookies 

I cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon milk \ teaspoon salt 

flavoring 2 cups flour 

Cream butter; add sugar, yolks well beaten, flour, 
baking powder, and salt, milk, and whites beaten to a stiff 
froth, and enough more flour to make of consistency to 
roll. Cut off a small piece of dough, roll on floured board, 
sprinkle with granulated sugar, shape with cooky cutter, 
and bake ten minutes. Save all trimmings until the last. 
Do not mix trimmings with fresh dough. 

Sand Cookies 

\ cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 2 teaspoons cinnamon mixed with 

\ teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons sugar 

\ cup blanched almonds 

Mix as sugar cookies ; roll ; shape with doughnut cutter; 

brush with water or white of egg ; sprinkle with cinnamon 

mixture. Decorate with halves of almonds. Bake in a 

quick oven. 

Nut Cookies 

\ cup butter \ teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

2 eggs \ cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup chopped nut meats 

flavoring 

Mix like Sugar Cookies. Add nuts ; drop from a tea- 
spoon on to buttered sheet. Decorate with halves of nuts. 
Bake in quick oven. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTING S AND FILLINGS 261 

Bangor Brownies 

I cup butter 3 squares chocolate 

1 cup brown sugar i to J cup flour 

1 egg 1 cup nut meats 

J teaspoon salt 

Put all ingredients in bowl and beat until well mixed. 

Spread evenly in buttered baking pan. Bake and cut in 

strips. 

Creoles 

3 eggs I teaspoon salt 

li cups brown sugar 1 1 cups pecan nut meats 

I cup of flour few grains cayenne 

Mix all ingredients in bowl ; beat well. Fill small but- 
tered fluted tins one half full. Decorate with pecans. 
Bake twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Hermits 

f cup butter 2 J cups flour 

1 cup brown sugar J teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

J teaspoon soda \ teaspoon each, clove, mace and 

1 tablespoon hot water nutmeg 

1 cup raisins 

Mix ingredients in order given. Roll mixture one 
quarter inch thick. Shape with cooky cutter. Put one 
raisin in center of each round. Bake in moderate oven 
twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Chocolate Wafers 

i cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar IJ cups flour 

2 eggs J teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Premium Chocolate, melted 

Mix in the order given. Beat well. Pour into buttered 
pans in thin layers. Bake in quick oven six to eight 
minutes. Cut in long narrow strips while hot, and serve 
cold. 



262 LOWNST'S COOK BOOK 

Wafers 

I cup butter If cup flour 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

i cup milk i teaspoon salt 

Cream the butter and add other ingredients. Spread 
on inverted buttered tins. Bake in quick oven, cut in 
squares, and roll. If this is done on top of the range, there 
will be less danger of the wafers breaking. 

Nut Wafers 

Sprinkle finely chopped nuts on the wafers just before 
baking. 

Chocolate Jumbles 

i cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 2 cups flour and enough more flour 

Chocolate, grated to roll out. 

1 tablespoon milk 

Mix in the order given, toss on to a floured board, and 
roll to an inch in thickness. Cut out with a doughnut 
cutter. Just before putting into the oven, dust over with 
granulated sugar and bake ten minutes. See colored illus- 
tration, Plate XIII, opposite. 

Chocolate Walnut Wafers 

J cup butter I cup milk 

^ cup powdered sugar 1 cup flour 

2 squares Lowney's Premium I teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate, g»ated 1 cup chopped walnuts 

J teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add dry ingredients, milk and flavoring. 
Spread on inverted pans which have been well buttered. 
Sprinkle with chopped nuts. Bake in moderate oven. 
Crease immediately on removing from oven. See colored 
illustration, Plate XIV, opposite. • 




CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 
Plate XIII. For Recipe see page 2(,: 




•* t 







— < 




CHOCOLATE WALNUT WAFERS 
Plate XIV. For Recipe see page 262 




LOWNEYS CHOCOLATE HERMITS 
Plate XV. For Recipe see page 263 




CHOCOLATE SWEDISH MERINGUES 
Plate XVI. For Recipe .see page 263 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINCS AND FILLINGS 263 

Lowney's Chocolate Hermits 

i oup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 eggs J cup Lowney's Always Ready 
^ cup raisins seeded Chocolate Powder 

i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream butter ; add sugar, eggs, raisins, flour in which 
baking powder has been sifted, chocolate melted in water, 
salt and cinnamon. Drop from a teaspoon on to a but- 
tered baking sheet, put a raisin in the center of each her- 
mit, and bake in a moderate oven. See colored illustra- 
tion, Plate XV, opposite. 

Chocolate Swedish Meringues 

5 egg whites J cup Lowney's Cocoa 

i teaspoon cream of tartar ^ cup flour 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the whites of eggs until foamy; add cream of tartar, 
sugar and cocoa. Continue beating until spoon will stand 
up in mixture ; add vanilla and fold in the flour. Bake in 
buttered shallow pans in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. Put cakes together with following filling, and 
decorate top with tilling and candied fruit and nuts. 

Filling 

Melt one half pound marshmallows. Cook one cup sugar 
and one third cup boiling water until, when dropped from 
tip of a spoon, a thread is formed. Pour slowly on to melted 
marshmallows, add one half teaspoon vanilla, and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Put between and on top of cakes. 
Sprinkle with chopped nuts, raisins, cherries and angelica. 
This may be made in one large cake or cut in small ones 
the shape of dominoes and decorated in the same way. 
See colored illustration, Plate XVI, opposite. 



264 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK ' 

Cornucopias 

Shape wafers as soon as taken from the oven. Fill with 
whipped cream, or cream fillings of various flavors. 

Chocolate Dominoes 

\ cup chopped walnut meats 2 squares Lowney's Premium Cboc- 

\ cup chopped figs elate, melted 

\ cup almond paste \ teaspoon salt 

grated rind of orange orange juice 

sugar 

Mix the ingredients with enough orange juice to make 
the mixture of the consistency to spread. Knead on a 
sugared board. Cut in shape of dominoes, coat with 
melted chocolate, and decorate with pieces of almonds. 

Chocolate Angelettes 

4 egg whites 4" tablespoons Lowney's Always 

\ teaspoon cream of tartar Ready Chocolate Powder 

\ cup sugar \ cup flour 

\ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

confectioners' sugar 

Beat whites ; add cream of tartar and sugar, and con- 
tinue beating. Cut and fold in salt, chocolate, flour. 
Flavor and drop by spoonfuls on to a buttered sheet; 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Cookies 

\ cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg \ teaspoon salt 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 4 tablespoons milk 
Chocolate 

Cream butter ; add remaining ingredients. Chill, roll, 
and shape. Bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 265 

Chocolate Macaroons 

i pound almond paste 2 squares Lowney's Premium Choc- 

I pound powdered sugar olate 

3 egg whites i teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix almond paste and sugar, until the mixture feels like 
meal ; add whites of eggs, one at a time, and work with a 
spatula until there are no lumps ; add chocolate, salt and 
vanilla. Drop from a teaspoon on to a buttered paper ; 
bake twenty to thirty minutes in a slow oven. Remove 
from paper as soon as cooked. If baked in a quick oven, 
they will not be a success. 

Cocoa Cocoanut Cookies 

3 eggs i cup Lowney's Always Ready 

1 cup sugar Chocolate Powder 

J cup heavy cream 2| cups flour 

J cup shredded cocoanut 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix ingredients in order given. Chill, roll J inch thick, 
and^hape with cooky cutter. Bake in moderate oven. 

Lowney's Brownies 

J cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar J cup nut meats 

2 squares Lowney's Premium ^ cup flour 

Chocolate 5 teaspoon salt 

Cream butter, add remaining ingredients, spread on 
buttered sheets, and bake ten to fifteen minutes. Cut in 
squares as soon as taken from oven. 

Mushroom Meringue 

Make a round of meringue mixture size of a quarter. 
Shape stems by drawing mixture upward. Sprinkle tops 
with cocoa. Bake in moderate oven. Remove from paper 



266 LOWNET'8 COOK BOOK 

and press stems into bottom of rounds to resemble mush- 
rooms. 

Macaroons 

1 cup almond paste 3 egg whites 

1 cup powdered sugar \ teaspoon almond extract* 

Mix almond paste and sugar until like meal. Add 
one egg white at a time and mix thoroughly. When well 
blended, shape on buttered paper in small rounds. Bake 
on inverted dripping pan in a very slow oven. Remove 
from paper immediately. 

Doughnuts 

IJ cups sugar 1 cup milk 

2 egg yolks 4| cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

few gratings of nutmeg 

Beat eggs ; add sugar, dry ingredients sifted, and milk. 
Beat well. Add flour to make a soft dough. Chill over 
night if possible. 

Roll to one inch thickness ; cut with doughnut cutter ; 
fry in hot fat, turning often. Drain on brown paper. 

Crullers 

Add to doughnut mixture two tablespoons butter. 
Roll one quarter inch thick. Cut in pieces four inches 
long and two inches wide. Make two slits in each, twist 
slightly, and fry in hot fat. 

Hard Gingerbread 

IJ cups butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2^ cups sugar \ cup milk 

3 teaspoons ginger 
8 cups flour 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FB0STIN6S AND FILLINGS 267 

Cream butter ; add remaining ingredients. Spread 
quarter inch thick on buttered inverted dripping pan. 
Roll with creased rolling pin. Bake in quick oven. Cut- 
in squares. Cool and keep in air-tight receptacles. 

Molasses Drops 

^ cup butter ^ teaspoon salt 

■J- cup boiling water 1 tablespoon ginger 

I cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda flour 

Pour boiling water over butter ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents, using sufficient flour to make a drop batter. Drop 
from tablespoon on to buttered tin. Bake in moderate 
oven fifteen minutes. 

New York Gingerbread 

f cup butter If cups powdered sugar 

IJ cups flour 1 tablespoon yellow ginger 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon baking pqwder 

I teaspoon salt 

Cream butter ; add flour. Add remaining ingredients 
and beat ten minutes. Bake in buttered bread pan forty- 
five to sixty minutes. 

Meringues 

1 cup egg whites 1 cup fine granulated sugar 

J teaspoon salt J teaspoon vanilla 

Add salt to eggs ; vbeat until very stiff. Add two table- 
spoons sugar, beat five minutes. So continue until half 
the sugar is used. When very stiff, cut and fold in the 
remaining sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to wet paper. on 
inverted dripping pan. Bake in slow oven thirty minutes. 
Remove from paper ; take out uncooked portion ; dry in 
oven. Cool and fill with whipped cream or ice cream. 
Arrange in pairs. 



268 lownmt's cook book 

Superior Gingerbread 

J cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup molasses IJ teaspoons soda 

1 cup boiling water J teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon grated orange peel 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix ingredients in order given. Beat well and bake in 
loaf thirty minutes, or in muffin pans twenty minutes. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

1 cup sour milk 2 teaspoons ginger 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons soda 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredients, 
beat well, pour into buttered pan, and bake twenty to thirty 
minutes. 

Hot Water Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses 2 to 4 tablespoons butter or beef 

2 cups flour suet 

1 teaspoon soda J cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon ginger J teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add remaining ingredients. 
Bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 cup molasses 3 cups flour 

J to J cup butter, suet, or J teaspoon soda 

chicken fat 1 tablespoon ginger 

2 teaspoons salt 

Boil shortening and molasses two minutes. Add re- 
maining ingredients, mixed and sifted. Beat well ; chill 
over night. Roll very thin. Shape with knife or cutter^ 
Bake on buttered pan in quick oven eight to ten minutes. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 269 

FROSTINGS 

Cocoa Frosting 

1 cup confectioners' sugar J cup Lowney's Cocoa 

1 egg white 1 tablespoon cream or milk 

1 teaspoon flavoring 1 teaspoon butter 

Beat white of egg, sugar and cocoa for five minutes. 
Add flavoring, milk and melted butter. Spread on cake, 
when cool. 

Cocoa Frosting No. 2 

1 cup confectioners' sugar J cup Lowney's Cocoa 
4 tablespoons strong cofiee J teaspoon salt 

Mix cocoa and sugar ; add hot coffee. Stir over fire five 
minutes. Add salt and spread on cake. 

Rich Chocolate Frosting 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 teaspoons butter 

Chocolate ^ cup milk 

J cup sugar 1 teaspoon sherry wine, or 

J teaspoon vanilla 

Mix chocolate, add other ingredients, and cook until, 
when dropped in water, a soft ball is formed. 

Chocolate Frosting No. 2 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon melted butter 

Chocolate 1 egg yolk 

i cup cream 2 cups confectioners' sugar 

J teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add other ingredients, and spread on 
cake. One cup chopped walnuts makes a chocolate walnut 
frosting. 

Note. — Confectioners' sugar • varies in thickening properties. 
Should this frosting be too thick, dilute with a small quantity of hot 
water or milk. 



270 lowney's cook book 

Boiled Frosting No. i 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

\ cup hot water J teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it threads ; pour on to the 
beaten egg white, pouring in a steady stream and very 
slowly, adding, while beating, cream of tartar, lemon 
juice and vanilla ; stir until thick. Spread on cold cake. 

Boiled Frosting No. 2 

1 cup sugar 2 egg whites 

\ cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Follow rule for cooking Boiled Frosting No. 1. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. i 

1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoon flavoring extract 

1 egg white J teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix ingredients and beat until thick. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. 2 

Same ingredients as Confectioners' Frosting No. 1, 
omitting vanilla, and flavoring with strawberry, raspberry, 
or orange juice. 

Confectioners' Frosting No. 3 

3 tablespoons milk, cream, or confectioners' sugar 

boiling water flavoring extract 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 

Add sufficient sugar to liquid to make of consistency to 
spread ; add flavoring and use. 

Caramel Frosting No. i 

1 cup brown sugar few grains salt 

\ cup cream 3 tablespoons caramelized sugar 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 211 

Boil sugar and cream till it begins to thread ; add 
caramelized sugar and spread. 

Caramel Frosting No. 2 

2 cups brcwn sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup tHn cream few drops vanilla 

Mix ingredients except vanilla, and boil without stir- 
ring, until a soft ball can be formed ; add vanilla. Beat 
until creamy. Spread. 

Chocolate Frostings 
See page 269. 

Coffee Frosting 

Confectioners' Frosting 'No. 1 2 tablespoons black coffee 

Follow directions for Confectioners' Frosting No. 1. 

Fudge Frosting 

2 tablespoons butter 2 squares chocolate 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

y cup milk 

Cook sugar, milk and chocolate six minutes ; add 
butter ; cook six minutes ; add vanilla, and beat until of 
consistency to spread. 

Fudge Nut Frosting 

Add one cup shredded nuts to Fudge Frosting, just 
before removing from fire. 

Gelatine Frosting 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatine J cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon cold water confectioners' sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; add boiling water, stir 
until dissolved ; add sugar until of consistency to spread. . 
Flavor and use. 



272 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Frosting 

Use rule for Fudge Frosting ; add one cup shredded 
cocoanut. 

Maple Frosting 

1 cup maple sugar I egg white 

1 cup boiling water J teaspoon cream of tartar 

Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar until thread is 
formed. Pour on to the beaten white, and continue beat- 
ing until of consistency to spread. 

Marshmallow Frosting 

1 cup sugar J pound marshmallow 

J cup hot water white of one egg 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt marshmallows in double boiler. Cook sugar and 
water until thread is formed. Pour on to the beaten 
white. Add melted marshmallows, flavoring, and beat 
until of consistency to spread. 

Marshmallow Nut Frosting 

Add one cup shredded walnuts or castanas to Marsh- 
mallow Frosting. 

Marshmallow Tutti-frutti Frosting 

Add one cup mixed candied fruit and nuts to Marsh- 
mallow F'rosting. 

Orange Frosting 

confectioners' sugar 2 egg yolks 

4 tablespoons orange juice grated rind one orange 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Soak rind in fruit juice one half hour; strain ; add re- 
maining ingredients until of consistency to spread. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 273 

Nougat Frosting 

1 cup chopped almonds 1 cup sugar 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup boiling water 

2 egg whites 

Brown almonds in oven. Caramelize four tablespoons 
sugar, add almonds, cool, and pound. Boil sugar and 
water until it threads, add almond powder, pour on to the 
beaten whites, and beat until thick enough to spread. 

Fig Frosting 

To Confectioners' Frosting No. 1 add one cup figs 
which have been boiled in one half cup water until tender, 
and chopped until fine. 

Wine Frosting 
To Boiled Frosting No. 2 add one tablespoon Madeira 
or sherry wine, and omit vanilla. 

Fondant 

3 cups sugar J teaspoon cream of tartar 
IJ cups water flavoring 

Boil sugar and water until a soft ball can be formed. 
Wash sides of saucepan with moist cheese cloth, as fast as 
the sugar crystallizes. Pour on to marble. When it 
begins to harden, work with a spatula until creamy. 
Chill, flavor, melt, and use for frosting. 

Ornamental Frosting 

4 egg whites confectioners' sugar 
2 tablespoons lemon juice flavoring 

To egg whites add three tablespoons sugar. Beat five 
minutes, add sugar in small quantities, beating five 
minutes between each addition. Continue thus until 
frosting is stiff enough to spread. Use pastry bag and 
tube to decorate cake with this frosting. 



274 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Brown Sugar Frosting 

1 cup brown sugar 2 egg whites 

\ cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

- Make the same as Boiled Frosting. 

Marshmallow Frosting No. 2 

Boiled Frosting J pound marshmallows 

Heat marshmallows in oven ; when puffed arrange on top 
of cake and pour Boiled Frosting over them. 

Mocha Frosting 

I cup butter 2 eggs 

1\ cups confectioners' sugar IJ cups scalded milk 

I cup flour \ cup strong cofiee 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 squares chocolate (melted) 
J teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter; add confectioners' sugar. Beat eggs; add 
granulated sugar, flour, salt, milk, coffee and chocolate. 
Cook in double boiler ten minutes; cool, flavor, and add to 
creamed butter. Use for filling and frosting for mocha 
cakes. 

FILLINGS 

Rich Chocolate Filling 

5 egg yolks 3 ounces Lowney's Premium 
J cup sugar Chocolate 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons boiling water 
2 cups milk \ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate; add hot water. Mix sugar and corn- 
starch, add yolks of eggs and milk, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add 
flavoring, salt and chocolate mixture. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 275 

Simple Chocolate Filling 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 teaspoons butter 

Chocolate 1 egg 

3 tablespoons milk \ teaspoon salt 

I cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla, or 

1 tablespoon -wine 

Melt chocolate, add remaining ingredients except flavor- 
ing, and cook in double boiler until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool and add flavoring. 

One cup chopped nuts or one cup shredded cocoanut or 
one cup mixed fruit may be added to this filling. 

Cocoa Nougat Filling 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

I cup water 1 cup nut meats, cut very fine 

J teaspoon cream of tartar J cup Lowney's Cocoa 

1 teaspoon flavoring 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

^ teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk 

J cup heavy cream 

Mix nut meats, egg yolk and powdered sugar; add cream 
beaten until stiff. Boil sugar and hot water until a thread 
is formed. Pour sugar mixture on to slightly beaten white 
of egg; add cream of tartar and flavoring, and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Add nut mixture, beat well, and 
spread over cakes. 

Note. — If this mixture becomes too thick, it may be thinned by 
adding a small quantity of hot water. 

Caramel Filling 

1 cup cream 2 tablespoons butter 

I cup sugar 6 tablespoons caramelized sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook butter, sugar, and cream together until it threads. 
Add caramelized sugar and flavoring. Cool and fill. 



276 lownet's cook book 

Cocoanut Filling 

1 cup milk 1 cup powdered sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 egg yolks 1 cup grated cocoanut 

juice and rind 1 lemon 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and egg yolks; add milk, butter, 
and cook twenty minutes, stirring occasionally; add lemon 
rind, juice and cocoanut. 

Coffee Filling 

Use rule for Cocoanut Filling, substituting one half cup 
black coffee for cocoanut, omitting lemon, and cooking 
after addition of coffee until mixture thickens. 

Cream Filling 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

J cup cornstarch 1 J cups milk 

1 tablespoon butter | teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon flavoring 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and eggs ; add milk and butter ; 
cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 
Cool, add salt, flavoring, and spread between cakes. 

Cura9oa Filling 

Use rule for Cream Filling, adding one tablespoon 

orange curagoa. 

Date Filling 

2 cups dates 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
J cup beaten cream | cup powdered sugar 

Remove stones and cut dates in small pieces ; add re- 
maining ingredients and spread between cakes. 

Fig Filling 

2 cups figs, chopped 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

■| cup boiling water few grains salt 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FBOSTINGS AND FILLINGS 277 

Cook ingredients in double boiler until of consistency 

to spread. 

Date and Almond Filling 

1 cup sugar 2 egg whites 

I cup thin cream 1 cup chopped dates 

i cup chopped almonds 

Boil sugar and cream until it threads. Pour on to the 

whites of eggs ; add chopped dates and almonds. Cool 

and use for filling. 

Maple Filling 

1 cup maple syrup i cup beaten cream 

1 egg white few grains salt 

Boil syrup until it threads; pour on to the beaten white; 
add cream, salt, and beat until thick enough to spread. 

Marshmallow Filling 
^ pound marshm allows 1 egg white 

Melt marshmallows in top of double boiler ; when lique- 
fied, pour on to the beaten white, beat until thick. 

Lemon Filling 

2 egg whites 2 tablespoons boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon cold water 

2 teaspoons gelatine 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

grated rind 1 lemon 

Cover gelatine with cold water ; dissolve in boiling 
water ; add to beaten whites with sugar, rind and juice. 

Nougat Filling 

Boiled Frosting 1 cup chopped nut meats 

1 egg I cup powdered sugar 

J cup cream 

Beat egg ; add powdered sugar, beaten cream and nut 
meats ; add mixture to Boiled -Frosting. Beat until thick 
enough to spread, 



278 . LOWIfET'S COOK BOOK 

Nut and Raisin Filling 

1 cup raisins 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup chopped nuts ^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg white J cup powdered sugar 

Seed raisins and chop until fine ; add chopped nuts. 
Beat egg until stiff ; add sugar, nuts, raisins and lemon 
juice. 

Orange Filling 

Cream Filling 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

juice and rind one orange 1 teaspoon butter 

J cup orange pulp 

Mix fruit juice and grated rind, butter, cream filling 
and orange pulp. Spread on cake. 

Fudge Filling 

2 cups sugar 4 squares chocolate 
2 cups rich milk 4 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix all ingredients and let stand on back of range until 
mixture liquefies. Boil until a soft ball is formed. Beat 
until creamy. Spread between cakes. 

Nut Fudge Filling 
Add one cup chopped nuts to Fudge Filling. 

Tutti-frutti Fudge Filling 

Add one and one half cups chopped nuts and candied 
fruits to Fudge Filling. 

Marshmallow Fudge Filling 

Melt one half pound marshmalloTTS in double boiler and 
add to Fudge Filling. 



CAKE AND COOKIES; FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 279 

Peach Filling 

1 cup beaten cream 1 cup peach pulp 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

few grains salt 

Mix ingredients, spread between cake. 

Pineapple Filling 

1 cup grated pineapple 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon orange rind sugar 

Mix pineapple, fruit juice and rind, and enough confec- 
tioners' sugar to make of consistency to spread. 



CHAPTER XV 

FROZEN DISHES 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing 

Select a reliable freezer and one which runs easily. 
Keep the gearing well oiled. 

Adjust the freezing can in the freezer, making sure that 
all parts fit and that the crank turns readily. Place ice 
in bag made of ticking or strong sacking, and, with a 
wooden mallet, pound until very fine. Surround the 
freezing can with ice and rock salt, using three measures 
of ice and one of salt, for ice cream and sherbets; two 
measures of ice and one of salt for sorbets, f rappes, etc. ; 
equal measures of ice and of salt for molding and for 
freezing mousses, bombes, and parfaits. 

For freezing ice cream, when the freezing can is cold, 
pour in mixture to be frozen, let stand five minutes, then 
turn the crank slowly for eight or ten minutes, then more 
rapidly until mixture is frozen. Remove dasher, scrape 
cream from sides of freezing can to the middle and press 
down so as to have the cream one solid mass; let stand to 
season, or if to be molded, pack in the mold. 

A one-pound baking powder can makes an excellent 
mold if one has no brick mold. 

280 



FROZEN DISHES 281 

Directions for Molding 

Have the mold chilled; press the frozen mixture well into 
the sides and bottom of mold, packing solidly until over- 
flowing ; put on cover, making sure that it fits securely ; 
if in doubt, brush with lard or butter. Tie on cover and 
._immerse in ice and salt, using equal parts of each; let stand 
one to three hours, depending upon degree of hardness de- 
sired. Mousses and parfaits are put directly into the mold, 
filled to overflowing, covered according to directions, and 
allowed to stand from four to six hours in ice and salt. 

Frozen desserts are divided into : — 

Philadelphia ice cream, which is cream sweetened, fla- 
vored, and stirred in freezer while freezing; plain ice 
cream, a custard of different degrees of richness, with 
or without cream, and stirred while freezing. 

Mousses, parfaits and biscuits are made with and with- 
out eggs, with beaten or whipped cream, and frozen 
without stirring. 

Water ices are divided into sherbets, frappes, and 
punch, all stirred while freezing. 

Bombes are combinations of ice cream and sherbet, or 
sherbet and charlotte russe mixture. 

Chocolate Fig Ice Cream 

4 ounces Lowney's Premium Chocolate 1 tablespoon vanilla 

4 cups cream i teaspoon salt 

I cup sugar 1^ cups finely chopped figs 

Melt chocolate, add sugar and one half cup cream, cook 
until smooth, add remaining ingredients, and freeze, stir- 
ring occasionally while freezing to keep figs from settling 
to the bottom. 

Note. — If figs are soaked in wine, the flavor of the cream is much 
better, and there is less liability of the figs being lumpy. 



282 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Chocolate^ Philadelphia Ice Cream 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 1 cup sugar 

Chocolate, or 4 cups light cream 

J cup Lowney's Cocoa J teaspoon salt 

J cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add remaining ingredients, and freeze. 

Chocolate Junket Ice Cream 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 1 junket tablet 

Chocolate 1 tablespoon cold water 

2 cups cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk IJ cups sugar 

Scald milk ; add melted chocolate and sugar ; cook three 
minutes ; cool. When lukewarm, add junket tablet which 
has been dissolved in cold water. Add cream and freeze. 

Two squares of chocolate give a very delicately 
flavored cream. 

Cocoa Frapp! 

4 cups milk J tablespoon arrowroot 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Chocolate, or 1 tablespoon sherry wine 

^ cup Lowney's Cocoa J teaspoon salt 

I cup sugar 1 inch stick cinnamon 

Mix chocolate, cinnamon, sugar, salt, cornstarch; add 
milk ; cook ten minutes ; add vanilla, sherry, and freeze. 
Serve in frappe glasses, and garnish with cream flavored 
and beaten, and candied cherries. 

Three cups of milk and one cup strong coffee may be 
used instead of all milk. See colored illustration, Plate 
XII, page 251. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

4 cups cream 4 ounces Lowney's Premium 
6 egg yolks Chocolate 

IJ cups sugar i teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



FBOZEN DISHES 283 

Scald one cup of cream; add to melted chocolate and 
cook three minutes, or until mixture is smooth and glossy ; 
add sugar, salt, vanilla, and the remaining three cups of 
cream which has been beaten stiff. When well blended, 
add beaten yolks of eggs. Freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream No. 2 

2 ounces Lowney's Premium 2 eggs 

Chocolate J cup flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons hot water 1 cup sugar 

1 pint cream J teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs ; add flour, one cup sugar, and milk ; cook in 
double boiler twenty minutes. Melt chocolate ; add sugar, 
boiling water ; cook until glossy, then add to egg mixture ; 
cool ; add cream, salt, and freeze. 

French Ice Cream 

2 cups milk 4 to 6 egg yolks 

2 cups cream 1 tablespoon vaniUa 
1 cup sugar i teaspoon salt 

Make a soft custard of milk, sugar and yolks of eggs. 
When cool, add cream whipped, salt and flavoring. 

FrGGZG 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

4 cups light cream 1 cup sugar 

3 cups heavy cream and one cup 1 tablespoon flavoring 

milk i teaspoon salt 

Mix the ingredients and freeze without cooking. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 
Add to French Ice Cream one cup brown bread crumbs 

dried. Freeze. 

Banana Ice Cream 

Add the pulp of four bananas and two tablespoons 
lemon juice to Philadelphia Ice Cream. Freeze. 



284 lowney's cook book 

Cocoa Ice Cream 

2 cups milk 2 cups cream, or 
1 cup sugar 2 cups milk and 

1 tablespoon cornstaroli 2 tablespoons butter 

or arrowroot i to J cup Lowney's Cocoa 

4 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix cocoa, sugar, and cornstarch or arrowroot; add 
scalded milk, and cook twenty minutes in double boiler. 
Beat eggs ; add cream, or milk and butter ; pour on to this 
mixture, cornstarch mixture. Add vanilla and freeze. 

One cup raspberry juice added just before freezing gives 
a pleasant variety. See colored illustration, Plate XVII, 
opposite. 

Chocolate Mousse 

3 ounces Lowney's Premium J cup cold water 

Chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

IJ cups sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 cup thin cream whip from 3 cups cream 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar and one cup cream ; boil one 
minute. Mix gelatine with cold water, add to boiling 
mixture ; when cool, add flavoring, salt and whip from 
cream. Pour into mold, pack in equal parts of ice and 
salt, let stand four hours. See. colored illustration, Plate 
XVIII, opposite. 

Frozen Chocolate 

4 squares Lowney's Premium 1 cup boiling water 

Chocolate 3 cups scalded milk 

J cup sugar i teaspoon vanilla 

J teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate; add sugar, salt and boiling water ; cook 
five minutes; add scalded milk and flavoring; when cool, 
freeze. Serve with cream sweetened and flavored, either 
plain or whipped. 




COCOA ICE CREAM 
Plate XVII. For Recipe see page 284 



V 



a-t-*-; 




CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 
Plate XVIII. For Recipe see page 2S4 




'^■r^i-.J-.Afl^WW*' 



FROZEN CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 
Plate XIX. For Recipe see page 2S; 




VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 
Plate XX. For Recipe see pages 234 and 285 



FROZEN DISHES 285 

Frozen Chocolate Souffl6 

2 egg yolks J teaspoon salt 

rind and juice of 1 lemon 2 egg whites 

4 tablespoons sherry wine 2 ounces Lowney's Premium 

i cup sugar Chocolate, melted 

J cup cream 

Cook first five ingredients until mixture thickens ; add 
beaten whites, chocolate, and cream beaten until thick. 
Pour into serving dish, and pack in equal parts of ice and 
salt. Let stand three hours. 

A very good way is to put serving dish in lard pail, 
then surround pail with equal parts of ice and salt. 

See colored illustration, Plate XIX, opposite. 

Plain Ice Cream 

4 cups milk 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

J teaspoon salt 

Prepare as for Soft Custard. 

This is the simplest and cheapest ice cream made. One 
pint of cream added is an improvement. 

Freeze according to directions for freezing. See col- 
ored illustration, Plate XX, opposite. 

Cocoa Macaroon Ice Cream 

Make a cream the same as for Cocoa Nut Cream, except 
omit the nuts. Brown in the oven two dozen macaroons. 
Crumb in meat chopper; add macaroon crumbs and ^ cup 
sherry to cream mixture. Freeze. 

Cocoa Cocoanut Cream 

Make a cream the same as for Cocoa Nut Cream, except 
omit the nuts, and add one cup of shredded cocoanut and 
the rind and juice of one lemon. Ifreeze. 



286 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Cocoa Nut Cream Ice 

2 eggs ^ cup Lowney's Cocoa 

H cups sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup flour 1 cup walnuts 

2 cups milk 2 cups cream 

Mix cocoa, flour, sugar and salt; add eggs slightly- 
beaten. When well blended, add scalded milk. Cook in 
double boiler, stirring constantly, twenty minutes. Add 
nuts finely chopped, flavoring and cream. Freeze. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream 

Blanch and chop one cup almonds. Caramelize four 
tablespoons sugar; add chopped almonds. When cold, 
pound to a powder. Add to French Ice Cream with one 
teaspoon almond extract. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Add to French Ice Cream, one cup of caramelized sugar. 
Cool and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Add one cup black coffee to French or Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Add one cup preserved ginger chopped fine, two table- 
spoons lemon juice, and three tablespoons ginger syrup 
to Philadelphia or French Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Macaroon Ice Cream 

Add one cup dried and pounded macaroons to French 
or Philadelphia Ice Cream ; flavor with one half teaspoon 
almond extract, one tablespoon sherry, and one half tea- 
spoon vanilla. EVeeze. 



FROZEN DISHES 287 

Maple Ice Cream 

Add one cup maple syrup to French or Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze and serve with Maple Sauce. 

Nougat Ice Cream 

Add one half cup each of chopped walnuts, almonds, 

and filberts, to French or Philadelphia Ice Cream. Flavor 

with one teaspoon vanilla and one teaspoon almond. 

Freeze. 

Orange Ice Cream 

Add one cup orange juice and one half cup orange 
pulp to Philadelphia Ice Cream. Flavor with one tea- 
spoon vanilla and one tablespoon lemon juice. Freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream 

Add two cups stewed and strained peaches to Philadel- 
phia Ice Cream. Flavor with one teaspoon lemon juice. 

Freeze. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Add two cups pineapple juice and pulp to French or 
Philadelphia Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Pistachio Ice Cream 

Mix one half cup Pistachio nuts chopped fine, and one 

cup almonds chopped fine, with Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Color a delicate green and flavor with one teaspoon almond. 

Freeze. 

Plum Pudding Ice Cream 

To Philadelphia Ice Cream add one cup dried and 
pounded Plum Pudding. Flavor with one tablespoon 
brandy. Freeze. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Add two cups strawberry juice and pulp to Philadel- 
phia Ice Cream. Freeze, and serve with Strawberry Sauce. 



288 LOWNMY'S COOK BOOK 

Wine Ice Cream 

Add two tablespoons sherry or Madeira to Philadelphia 
Ice Cream. Freeze. 

Coffee Mousse 

1 pint cream 1 cup black coffee 

J cup powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture 
into a mold, pack in ice and salt, and let stand five 
hours. 

Chocolate Mousse Wo. 2 

Substitute four ounces melted chocolate for coffee in 
Coffee Mousse, pour into mold, pack in ice and salt, 
and let stand four hours. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Substitute two cups mashed berries for coffee, and pro- 
ceed as for Coffee Mousse. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix two cups of any fruit .pulp, with powdered sugar to 
sweeten, with the whip from one pint cream. A small 
amount of lemon juice brings out the flavor of other fruits. 
Mold. Pack and let stand in ice and salt four hours. 

Silver Parfait 

1 cup sugar 3 egg whites 

1 cup water 1 pint cream 

flavoring 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the 
beaten whites of eggs, add the whip from cream, flavoring, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand four hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 289 

Cocoa Parfait 

1 cup sugar 4 egg yolks 

J cup boiling water 2 teaspoons vanilla 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Cocoa 2 cups cream 

J teaspoon salt 

Boil sugar and water together ten minutes; pour syrup 
on to cocoa which has been beaten with the egg yolks ; 
cook over hot water until of the consistency of soft cus- 
tard. Beat until cold; add the cream which has been 
beaten until stiff, vanilla, and salt. Turn into mold, 
cover, and pack in equal measures of finely crushed ice and 
rock salt. Let stand four hours. Remove from mold 
and garnish with cream, sweetened and flavored, and 
press through the pastry bag. 

The parfait may be served in champagne glasses and 
garnished with beaten cream and candied cherries. See 
colored illustration, Plate XI, page 251. 

Golden Parfait 

1 cup sugar 6 egg yolks 

i cup water 1 pint cream 

Cook sugar and water five minutes. Pour slowly on 
to the beaten egg yolks, add' whip from cream, turn into 
mold and pack in ice and salt, and let stand four hours. 

Cafe Parfait 

Add one fourth cup black coffee to Golden Parfait and 
freeze as Golden Parfait. 

Maple Parfait 

Substitute maple syrup for boiled sugar and water in 
Golden Parfait. Mold, pack in ice and salt four hours, 
and serve with chopped browned almonds. 



290 LOWNEY'8 COOK BOOK 

Nesselrode Pudding 

To Golden Parfait add one cup boiled chestnuts, mashed, 
one cup candied fruit soaked in wine, one cup chopped 
pineapple. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla, one table- 
spoon sherry. Freeze, pack, mold, and serve with rum 
sauce. 

Biscuit Tortoni 

Mix one cup pounded macaroons, two tablespoons 
sherry, two tablespoons caramelized sugar pounded, with 
Golden Parfait. Pack in paper boxes, pack boxes in pail, 
and pack pail in equal parts ice and salt, for four hours. 
Serve in boxes, sprinkle with brown chopped almonds. 

Biscuit Glace 

Add two tablespoons maraschino, two tablespoons 
sherry, to Golden Parfait. Fill paper boxes, pack boxes 
in pail, pack pail in ice and salt, and let stand in ice and 
salt four hours. 

SoufEle Glace 

1 cup cream 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon grated lemon rind \ cup wine 
4 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

\ teaspoon salt 

Mix yolks of eggs, lemon juice, rind, sugar and salt. 
Cook until thick. Cool; add beaten whites and cream 
beaten until stiff. Add wine, fill paper cases, pack cases 
in pail, and pack pail in ice and salt four hours. 

Plain Water Ice 

2 cups water 4 egg whites 

1 cup sugar flavoring 

Boil sugar and water; beat until cold. Add egg whites 
beaten until stiff and flavoring. Freeze. 



FROZEN niSHm 291 

Lemon Water Ice 

Add the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of three 
lemons to Water Ice. Freeze. 

Orange Water Ice 

Add rind of one orange, one half cup orange juice, two 
tablespoons lemon juice, to Plain Water Ice. 

Pineapple Water Ice 

Add two cups pineapple chopped and pressed through 
a sieve, with two tablespoons lemon juice, to Plain Water 
Ice. 

Lemon Sherbet 

The same as Water Ice, omitting the whites of eggs. 
All fruit sherbets made in the same way. 

Strawberry Bombe Glace 

Line a mold with Strawberry Ice Cream, fill with 
Pineapple Water Ice. Pack in ice and salt four hours. 
Serve with Strawberry Sauce. 

Raspberry Bombe Glace 

Line a mold with Raspberry Water Ice. Fill with 
Vanilla Ice Cream, or whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. Pack in ice and salt four hours. 

Sultana Roll 

Line sultana roll molds, or one-pound baking powder 
boxes, with Pistachio Ice Cream. Sprinkle with candied 
fruit which has been soaked in brandy over night, and fill 
with Vanilla Ice Cream or with Silver Parfait, or beaten 
cream sweetened and flavored. Pack in ice and salt four 
hours. Serve with Claret Sauce. 



292 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Lalla Rookh 

Use rule for Philadelphia Ice Cream. When frozen add 
one cup Jamaica rum. Serve in glasses. 

CafI Frappe 

3 cups coffee 1 cup cream 

1 cup sugar J teaspoon salt 

Freeze to consistency of mush. Serve in frappe glasses 
with whipped cream on top. 

Orange Frappe 

1 cup sugar 1 cup orange juice 

2 cups water pulp of four oranges 

4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredients, 
and freeze to a mush. Serve with orange syrup and 
sprinkle with candied orange peel, finely chopped. 

Grape Frapp6 

Substitute one cup grape juice for orange juice, and 
freeze to a mush. 



CHAPTER XVI 
BEVERAGES 

French Chocolate 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups milk scalded 

Chocolate J cup ground coffee 

J cup boiling water 2 tablespoons sugar 

^ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons brandy 

Melt two squares Lowney's Premium Chocolate, add 
sugar and boiling water, boil two minutes. Scald the milk 
with coffee, strain, and add to chocolate with salt and 
brandy. Beat with Dover egg beater and serve with 
beaten cream. 

Plain Chocolate 

2 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups scalded milk 
Chocolate 1 cup boiling water 

4 tablespoons sugar salt 

Melt two squares Lowney's Premium Chocolate, add 
sugar, salt and boiling water ; boil two minutes, add 
scalded milk and beat with Dover egg beater to prevent 
scum from forming. Serve very hot. 

Emergency Chocolate 

2 teaspoons Lowney's Always | cup boiling water 
Ready Chocolate Powder 1 cup scalded milk 

salt 

Mix two teaspoons Lowney's Always Ready Chocolate 
Powder with boiling water ; boil three minutes, stirring 
all the time ; add scalded milk and cook in double boiler 
ten minutes ; add a few grains of salt and more sugar if 

293 



294 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

needed ; beat and serve. This may be made without 
cooking so long. 

Condensed Milk Chocolate 

3 squares Lowney's Premium 3 cups boiling water 

Chocolate J can condensed milk 

4 tablespoons sugar J teaspoon salt 

Melt chocolate ; add sugar, salt, and boiling water in 
which has been mixed the condensed milk. Boil five 
minutes. If condensed milk has been sweetened, omit 
sugar. 

Brandy Cocoa 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 1 tablespoon brandy 
fast Cocoa J cup boiling water 

4 tablespoons sugar 4 cups scalded milk 

f teaspoon salt 

Mix four tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa, four 
tablespoons sugar, and one fourth cup boiling water ; 
when smooth, add four cups scalded milk and cook in 
double boiler twenty minutes ; add one tablespoon brandy 
and salt ; beat and serve ; garnish with beaten cream. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

2 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 2 tablespoons sugar 
fast Cocoa 2 cups boiling water 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix two tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa, two 
tablespoons sugar, one eighth teaspoon salt ; add two 
cups boiling water gradually ; when smooth, boil five 
minutes ; add two cups scalded milk, beat with a Dover 
egg beater until frothy. 

Breakfast Cocoa with Condensed Milk 

4 tablespoons Lowney's Break- 2J cups boiling water 
fast Cocoa J cup condensed milk 

few grains salt 



BEVERAGES 295 

Mix four tablespoons Lowney's Breakfast Cocoa with 
one cup boiling water ; boil two minutes ; add one and one 
half cups boiling water which has been mixed with one half 
cup condensed milk and a few grains salt; bring to the 
boiling point and serve with or without whipped cream. 

If condensed milk has not been sweetened, add two 
tablespoons of sugar to the cocoa. 

Tea 

freshly boiled water 1 teaspoon tea for each cup 

Scald an agate-ware teapot ; put in as many teaspoons 
tea as cups required. Cover with as many cups of boil- 
ing water as there are teaspoons of tea. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

Russian Tea 

Prepare tea, serving a thin slice of lemon and sugar 
with each cup. 

Tea Punch 

Prepare tea as for Russian Tea and serve with a thin 
slice of lemon and lump sugar soaked in brandy. 

Iced Tea 

Make tea. Serve in glasses with crushed ice, with one 
tablespoon lemon juice in each glass. 

Boiled Coffee No. i 
1 cup freshly ground coffee 1 cup cold water 

1 whole egg or one egg white 6 cups boiling water 

Mix coffee, egg and one half cup cold water, add boil- 
ing water, boil hard five minutes. Set on back part of 
range, add other half cup of cold water, let stand five 
minutes, and serve with hot milk, cream and sugar. 

Coffee No. 2 
Use rule for Boiled Coffee, using six cups cold water 
instead of boiling water. 



296 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Coffee No. 3 
1 cup coffee 6 cups cold water 

Put coffee in cheese cloth bag. Tie, allowing room for 
coffee to swell. Place in scalded coffee pot, cover with 
cold water, and boil ten minutes. Remove bag, let stand 
two minutes on back of range, and serve with hot milk, 
sugar and cream. 

French Coffee 

1 cup very finely ground or 6 cups boiling water 

powdered coifee 

Place coffee in strainer, add boiling water gradually, and 
refilter, if liked very strong. 

Iced Coffee 

Add hot milk to black coffee, flavor with vanilla, and 
sweeten to taste. Chill; serve in glasses with a tablespoon 
of chopped ice in each glass. 

Black Coffee 

Allow two tablespoons of coffee for each cup of boiling 
water. Always make in French coffee pot. 

After-dinner Coffee 

1 cup coffee 1 egg slightly beaten 

i ounce chicory 4 cups boiliag water 

J cup cold water 

Mix coffee, chicory, egg and cold water, add boiling 
water, and boil five minutes ; let stand five minutes on back 
of range where it will keep hot. Serve without sugar or 
cream. 

These same ingredients may be used in the French 
coffee pot, and the liquid may be poured through the 
coffee until the required strength is obtained. 



BEVEUAGES 297 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Claret Cup 

1 pint claret 1 cup sherry 

1 cup cura9oa 1 slice cucumber 

1 cup soda water juice of one orange 

sugar to taste 

Champagne Cup 

2 cups champagne 2 cups Apollinaris 
2 cups soda water ice 

1 bunch mint 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

1 cup sherry 1 slice cucumber 
juice and rind one orange juice of one half lemon 

Cider Cup 

2 cups cider rind of one lemon 

1 cup sherry 1 slice cucumber 

J cup brandy few gratings nutmeg 

large piece ice sugar 

Lemonade 

Boil two cups of sugar and four cups water until a rich 

syrup is formed. Add one cup lemon juice. Dilute with 

ice water. 

Orangeade 

2 cups sugar \ cup lemon juice 
2 cups water f cup orange juice 

2 oranges sliced 

Make the same as Lemonade. 

Fruit Punch 

SujBficient to serve twenty-five persons. 

4 cups sugar 1 box strawberries hulled 

8 cups water ' and cut in pieces 

2 quarts Apollinaris 4 bananas cut in slices 

1 pineapple shredded juice of 6 oranges 

1 cup fruit juice juice of 3 lemons 



298 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Boil sugar and water five minutes ; add fruit, ice, Apol- 
linaris, and water to make the punch right strength. 
One cup maraschino cherries may be added. 

Currant Punch 

4 cups currant juice 6 lemons 

4 cups sugar 6 oranges 

12 cups water 2 cups tea 

Boil sugar and water five minutes ; add tea, juice, lemons 
and oranges sliced, and a large piece of ice. 

Milk Punch 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons of sherry, brandy, or 

1 teaspoon sugar Madeira 

few gratings nutmeg 

Put two lumps of ice in glass ; add sugar, milk and 
wine ; shake, strain, and add nutmeg. 

Mint Julep No. i 

1 bunch mint juice 6 lemons 

2 cups ice water 2 cups sugar 

4 cups water 

Chop mint ; add ice water ; let stand over night. Boil 
sugar and water ; chill ; add lemon juice and mint water. 
Serve with crushed ice ; garnish with mint leaves. 

Mint Julep No. 2 

Put three sprigs mint with one half teaspoon orange 
bitters in a glass ; add one sherry glass Vermouth and one 
half cup whiskey; shake well; add one half cup crushed 
ice, stir to crush the mint. Add two slices orange, two 
or three strawberries, and a few sprigs of mint. Add 
more ice and serve when the outside of the glass is 
frosted. 



CHAPTER XVII 
FRUITS AND NUTS AND CANDY 

Fruits and Nuts 

Fktjit is especially wholesome, although not nutritious. 
The best time to eat fruit is in the morning. Most fruits 
are improved in flavor by being chilled. 

A dish of different fruits attractively arranged makes a 
very acceptable center piece. 

" To prepare Fruit for the Table 

Apples should be washed and wiped dry. Berries 
should be looked over very carefully, and, if dirty, washed 
by putting in a colander and allowing cold water to run 
gently over them, or place the colander in a bowl of cold 
water and raise up and down several times, then drain 
thoroughly and chill before serving. 

Cherries should be looked over, and served with their 
stems on. 

Bananas should be wiped and chilled. 

Currants should be washed and drained, and served on 
the stem. 

Figs, if the dried ones, should be washed, drained, and 
chilled. 

Grape fruit should be cut in halves, the pulp loosened 
from the skin, and the pith cut out, then chilled; it may 
be served plain, or sugar and wine may be poured over it 
just before chilling. Serve one half grape fruit to each 
person. 

Grapes should be washed if dirty, but the bloom is then 

299 



300 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

lost; if picked on one's own vines, it may not be necessary 
to wash them ; but when bought in the market, it is better 
to wash and drain, and chill them. 

Peaches and plums should be wiped with a soft cloth, 
and chilled before serving. 

Quinces are never served raw. 

Strawberries are often served with their hulls on around 
a mound of sugar; but if they are to be served with sugar 
and cream, of course they must be hulled and chilled. 

Oranges may be chilled and served in the natural state; 
or prepared the same as grape fruit, and one half served to 
each person; or peeled and the sections almost, but not 
quite, separated ; or the orange may be cut in the shape of 
a basket, the pulp removed, the membrane cut off, and the 
basket refilled with the pulp, which may be- sweetened or 
not. 

Pineapples may be served in various ways; perhaps the 
most popular way is to cut off a slice from the top of the 
pineapple, then scoop out the center with a fork, and 
return pulp to pineapple, put on cover, chill, and serve. 

Pineapples may be cut in slices, the outer skin be 
removed, and the tough pith taken out, then serve one or 
two slices to each person. 

If the pineapples are not fully ripe, it is better to re- 
move the skin, pull the pulp in pieces with a fork, then 
cover with sugar, and chill over night. 

Pears should be carefully wiped and chilled before 
serving. 

Melons should be thoroughly chilled. Cantaloupes 
should be cut in halves, have the seeds removed, and serve 
one half to a person. Watermelons should be cut in 
halves, then each half cut in pie-shaped pieses; serve one 
piece to a person. 

Nuts are ordinarily served only at dinner. Hard-shelled 



FBUIT8 AND NUTS AND CANDY 301 

nuts should be cracked, served in the shell, or without the 
shell. 

Almouds are cracked, and a portion of the shell dis- 
carded, or they may be blanched and salted, and served 
with the bonbons. 

Pecans, filberts, peanuts and walnuts are treated in the 
same way as almonds. 

Castanas or Brazilian nuts are cracked and served in the 
sheU. 

CANDY 
Butter Scotch No. i 

3 cups brown sugar J teaspoon soda 

f cup water - 1 teaspoon flavoring 

2 tablespoons butter few grains salt 

Boil all ingredients until a thread is formed when 
dropped from a spoon. Pour into hot buttered pans, 
crease, and let stand until hard. 

Butter Scotch No. 2 

1 cup brown sugar J teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses 1 tablespoon vinegar 

I cup butter few grains salt 

Cook in the same way as Butter Scotch No. 1. 

Butter Taffy 

1 cup molasses | cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 cup butter few grains salt 

Cook all ingredients until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Pour into hot buttered pans, crease, and cool. 

Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 



302 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Cook sugar, water and cream of tartar until brittle 
wlien tried in cold water ; add vanilla ; pour on to greased 
platter or marble. Pull as soon as it can be handled. 

Cocoanut Candy 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

J cup cream 1 cup cocoanut 

Cook sugar and cream twelve minutes ; add butter and 
cocoanut. Pour into greased pans, crease, and cool. 

Buttercups 

2 cups molasses 1 cup brown sugar 

2 tablespoons butter J cup boiling water 

Cook all ingredients until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Pour on to hot buttered platter ; pull when cool 
enough to handle ; shape in a sheet two inches wide, 
cover with a layer of fondant, then with a layer of 
molasses candy, press together and cut in inch pieces. 

Molasses Candy 

2 cups molasses 1 cup water 

2 cups brown sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

^ cup vinegar salt 

Boil ingredients until brittle when tried in cold water. 
Pour into hot buttered pan; pull when cool enough to 
handle. 

Maple Sugar Candy 

1 cup maple sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

J cup water salt 

flavoring 

Boil until brittle, pour into greased pan, crease, and 
cool. One cup nut meats may be added just before pour- 
ing into pans. 



FSUITS AND NUTS AND CANDT 303 

Peanut Brittle 

2 cups sugar 2 cups shelled peanuts 

Melt sugar; when a golden brown, add chopped nuts ; 
pour into hot buttered pan, crease, and cool. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
PRESERVING 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Canned fruits are now more popular with most people 
than preserved fruits. 

The expense in preparing them is less, and the natural 
flavor is retained. 

To prepare fruit for canning, look over carefully, reject 
imperfect fruit, and be sure that the fruit is clean. 

The fruit may be cooked in a saucepan with just enough 
sugar to make it palatable and water to keep the fruit from 
burning and transferred to sterile jars ; or it may be put 
into sterile jars in the first place, and cooked by steam, — 
the latter method preserves the color and flavor better. 

To sterilize jars, put jars into cold water, bring water 
to the boiling point, and boil ten minutes ; fill jars with 
cooked fruit, and pour in syrup to overflowing; adjust 
rubbers and covers. Invert and let stand on folded cloth 
until cold ; if there are no air bubbles, place jars in a cool 
dark closet to keep. If air bubbles are present, take off 
cover, reheat, and add more hot syrup and proceed as 
before. 

Canned Apples 

4 pounds apples 2 pints water 

1 pound sugar juiee and rind of 2 lemons 

Pare and core the apples ; cover with cold water. Boil 
sugar and water five minutes ; add apples and simmer until 
tender ; add lemon juice and rind ; place apples in sterilized 

304 



PRESEBVINQ 805 

jars; fill to overflowing with syrup; adjust rubbers and 

covers ; set in a cool place until cool then keep in dark 

dry closet. 

Canned Apples and Pineapple 

4 pounds apples 2 pounds sugar 

4 pounds pineapple 2 pints water 

rind of 4 lemons 

Pare, core, and cut the apples in rings. Cut pineapple 
in slices, remove skin and eyes, and cut pulp into squares, 
being careful to reject the core. Boil sugar and water 
five minutes ; add pineapple ; cook until tender ; then cook 
apples until tender ; add lemon rind ; fill jars which have 
been sterilized with apple and pineapple, adjust rings, fill 
jars with syrup, adjust covers, seal. 

Canned Blackberries 
4 quarts blackberries 2 pints sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let stand 
several hours, then cook slowly until the boiling point is 
reached; boil five minutes; fill sterilized jars and seal. 

Canned Blueberries 
Blueberries are canned the same as Blackberries, allow- 
ing one half cup water for every four pounds of blueberries. 

Canned Cherries 
4 pounds cherries 1 to 2 pounds sugar 

Stone the cherries or not as preferred. Place sugar and 
cherries in preserving kettle, let stand two hours. Cook 
until tender, fill sterilized jars, and seal. 

Canned Currants 
4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

Wash, stem, and cover" currants with sugar; let stand in 
preserving kettle over night. Cook slowly until boiling 
point is reached, skim, fill sterilized jars, and seal. 



306 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Canned Gooseberries 
4 pounds gooseberries 2 pounds sugar 

Stem and wash gooseberries, cover with sugar, and let 
stand over night ; if green, add one quarter cup water ; 
bring quickly to boiling point, fill jars, and seal. 

Canned Huckleberries 

Huckleberries are canned in the same way as Black- 
berries. 

Canned Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 2 pounds sugar 

1 pint ■water 

Pare peaches and cook in sugar and water, either whole 
or in halves, until tender. Arrange in jars, fill with 
syrup, and seal. 

Pears, pineapples, and plums are canned in the same 
way as peaches. 

Canned Quinces 

4 pounds quinces 2 pounds sugar 

1 pint water 

Cook sugar and water until syrupy. Pare and quarter 
quinces; let stand in cold water. Cook in boiling water 
until tender, then cook in sugar and water syrup five 
minutes. Arrange quinces in jars, fill with syrup, and seal. 

Canned Quinces and Apples 

4 pounds quinces 2 pounds sugar 

2 pounds apples 1 quart water 

Pare and quarter quinces and apples, let stand in cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Cook in boiling water 
until tender, then simmer in sugar and water syrup ten 
minutes. Arrange fruit in jars, fill with syrup, and seal. 



PBESMRVING 807 

Canned Raspberries 

4 pounds raspberries 2 pounds sugar 

Arrange berries and sugar in alternate layers in glass 
jars; set jars on trivet in large boiler two thirds full of 
water; cover and cook until the water in boiler boils 
vigorously. Renaove jar; if berries have settled, refill 
from another jar, and seal. 

Canned Strawberries 
Prepare in the same way as Canned Raspberries. 

Canned Beans 
Prepare string beans as for boiling. Cook in water one 
half hour. Fill sterilized jars with beans, adjust rubbers, 
fill with cold water, and put on covers. Arrange on rack in 
boiler, fill boiler two thirds full with water, cover boiler, 
and boil hard two hours. Seal and remove jars. 

Canned Corn 
Cut fresh young corn from the cob. Pack sterilized 
jars to overflowing with corn. Seal, set on trivet in 
boiler, surround with cold water, and boil five or six 
hours, having boiler covered all of the time. Keep in 
dark, cool place. 

Canned Peas 

Cook shelled peas in boiling water one half hour. Fill 
sterilized jars with cooked peas, then pour in cold water 
until jar will hold no more. Set jars on trivet in boiler, 
surround jars with cold water, cover boiler, and boil four 
hours. Seal, and keep in cool place. 

Canned Tomatoes 
Remove skins from tomatoes ; boil hard twenty minutes ; 
fill sterilized jars, being careful to keep seeds away from 
rubbers. Seal, and keep in cool place. 



308 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Preserving 

Equal weights or amounts of fruit and sugar are used 
in preserving. 

Select perfect fruit, weigh or measure absolutely ac- 
curately, and always cook the fruit long enough to kill all 
life, — small fruits, one hour, and large fruits until thor- 
oughly tender. 

Preserved Apples 

4 pounds apples 4 pounds sugar 

3 cups water rind and juice of 6 lemons 

Wash, pare, and quarter apples ; keep in water until 
ready to use. Cook sugar and water five minutes ; add 
apples, cook until tender ; add lemon juice and rind. Fill 
jars with apples, then with syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Crab Apples 

4 pounds crab apples 4 jjounds sugar 
4 cups water juice of 4 lemons 

- Wash crab apples, and cook in sugar and water syrup 
until tender ; add lemon juice, fill jars with fruit, then 
with syrup, and seal. 

The fruit is much more attractive if the skin is left on, 
but may be removed if preferred. 

Preserved Blackberries 

4 pounds blackberries 4 pounds sugar 

Look over berries and wash. Cover with sugar and 
let stand two hours. Simmer until the boiling point is 
reached, boil one minute ; cool, bring to the boiling point 
again, boil one minute ; fill jars first with fruit, then with 
juice, and seal. 

Preserved strawberries, raspberries, thimbleberries, and 
gooseberries are prepared in the same way. 



PRESERVING 309 

Preserved Cherries 
4 pounds cherries 4 pounds sugar 

Wash cherries; remove stems and stones. Cover cher- 
ries with sugar, let stand two hours ; th6n set on stove, 
and bring slowly to the boiling point ; cook until cherries 
are tender. Fill jars first with cherries, then with syrup ; 
seal. 

Preserved currants and huckleberries are prepared in 
the same way. 

Preserved Citron 

4 pounds citron 4 pounds sugar 

4 cups water 

Wash citron, cut in halves, remove seeds ; cut each half 
into eighths, cover with salt, then with water ; let stand 
over night, then drain. Cover with cold water, let stand 
over night. Drain, remove skin, and cook in syrup of 
sugar and water until citron is tender. Remove each 
piece carefully to a platter. When cool, fill jars with 
citron, and then with boiling syrup. Seal. 

If the citron lacks flavor, the juice and rind of four 
lemons and a small piece of ginger root may be boiled 
with the syrup. 

If the citron is placed in the jars while it is hot, the 
pieces will not keep their shape. 

Preserved Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

Pare, cut in halves, and take out stones. Arrange 
peaches and sugar in layers in preserving kettle ; let stand 
over night. In morning simmer until peaches are tender ; 
fill jars with fruit, boil syrup five minutes, fill jars with 
syrup, and seal. 



310 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Preserved Pineapple 
Prepare in the same way as Preserved Peaches. 

Preserved Pears 

4 pounds pears 4 pounds sugar 

2 cups water 

Wash, pare, and cut pears in halves. Put in cold water. 
Make a syrup of sugar and water; cook only enough pears 
to fill a jar at a time ; when tender fill jars with fruit, then 
with syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Apricots 

Prepare in the same way as Preserved Pears. 

Preserved Plums 

4 pounds plums 4 pounds sugar 

damsons or green gages or blue plums 

Pick over and prick plums. Arrange alternate layers 
of plums and sugar in bowl, let stand over night ; in the 
morning drain off syrup, boil, and skim ; add plums and 
cook until tender. Cool plums on platter, fill jars with 
plums, then with boiling syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Quinces 

4 pounds quinces 4 pounds sugar 

boiling water 

Wash, wipe, pare, core, and cut quinces in quarters. 
Put in preserving kettle, cover with boiling water. Sim- 
mer until tender. Cool on platters. Mix sugar with one 
pint of water in which quinces have been cooked ; boil ten 
minutes. Add quinces a few at a time, cover kettle, and 
cook slowly until quinces are of a rich red color. Fill jars 
with quinces, then with boiling syrup, and seal. 

One half quinces and one half apples may be used in 
this recipe. 



PBESERVINQ 311 

Preserved Green Tomatoes 

4 quarts green tomatoes 4 pounds sugar 

4 lemons 1 inch ginger root 

J cup cold water 

Wash tomatoes and cut in slices ; add sliced lemons, 
sugar, water and ginger root. Simmer two hours, cool, 
then simmer two hours more. Pour into jars and seal. 

Preserved Ripe Tomatoes 

Prepare in same manner as Preserved Green Tomatoes, 
except that the tomatoes must have skins removed beforb 
slicing them. 

Brandied Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

2 cups water 2 cups brandy 

Cut peaches in halves, remove stones, and cook in sugar 
and water syrup five minutes ; take out, remove skins, and 
cook again in syrup five minutes. Remove kettle from 
range, and let peaches stand in syrup over night. In 
morning reheat, pack peaches in jars, and fill jars with an 
equal quantity of syrup and brandy. Seal. 

Brandied Plums 

Prepare in the same manner as Brandied Peaches, but 
prick plums with knitting needle several times before 
cooking. 

Peach Butter 

1 peck peaches 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 quarts cider boiled sugar 

Pare and cut peaches in small pieces ; add cider and 
lemon juice, boil until thick, stirring constantly ; add 
sugar, if not sufficiently sweet. Fill jars and seal. 



312 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Grape Butter 

4 pounds grapes 3 cups vinegar 

4 pounds sugar 2 teaspoons each of cloves, nutmeg, 

cinnamon, and allspice 

Cook all together until thick ; press through a sieve to 
remove seeds. Fill glasses and seal. 

Tutti-frutti 

1 pound orange pulp 1 pound raspberries 

1 pound red currants 1 pound pears 

1 pound red cherries 1 pound plums 

1 pound bananas 1 pound peaches 

1 pound pineapple 1 pound strawberries 

1 pound apples 1 pint alcohol 
11 pounds sugar 

Put the orange pulp into an earthen crock; add one 
pound sugar, and two tablespoons alcohol ; add this 
same amount of sugar and alcohol every time a pound of 
fruit is added. Keep covered with a cloth and tight-fit- 
ting cover. 

Apple or Crab Apple Jelly- 
Wash and wipe fruit. Remove stems ; cut in pieces, 
put in preserving kettle, nearly cover with cold water ; 
cook very slowly until apples are tender. Pour into jelly 
bag and drain thoroughly, but do not squeeze. Measure 
juice, allow one pound of sugar to every pint of juice. 
Boil juice twenty minutes ; add sugar which has been 
heated on a platter in the oven ; stir until sugar is dis- 
solved; boil five minutes or until it jellies. Skim when 
necessary. Have jelly glasses standing in hot water; 
pour jelly into them ; let stand until hard and cover first 
with paper or melted paraffin and the tin cover, or paste 
white paper over the glass. Keep all jellies in cool, dry, 
dark place. 



PBBSSRVINO 818 

A rose geranium leaf cooked with the apples gives a 

pleasant flavor. 

Blackberry Jelly 

Mash blackberries and squeeze in jelly bag. Measure 
juice, allowing one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. 
Follow directions for Apple Jelly. 

Damson, strawberry, cherry, and raspberry jellies are 
made in the same way. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 cups cranberries 3 cups sugar 

J cup cold water 

Wash cranberries, mash, add water, and boil twenty 
minutes. Press through sieve, add sugar, and cook 
three minutes. Pour into glass and cover. 

Currant Jelly 

Wash and drain currants thoroughly. Do not remove 
stems. Mash a few in the bottom of the kettle. Cook 
until the juice seems to be extracted from the currants, 
and the currants look white. Press through a coarse 
colander, then drip through a jelly bag, but do not 
squeeze. 

Allow one pound sugar for each pint of juice. Boil 
juice twenty minutes. Add hot sugar and boil hard three 
minutes ; skim when necessary. Strain into hot glasses; 
let stand till stiff. Cover. 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly 
Use equal parts of currants and raspberries, and proceed 
as for Currant Jelly. 

Barberry Jelly 

Use two quarts of apples for every four quarts of 
barberries and just enough water to keep berries from 
burning. Follow directions for Currant Jelly. 



314 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Grape Jelly 

Remove stems from grapes. Mash; boil twenty 
minutes; strain, but do not squeeze; proceed as for 
Currant Jelly. Half ripe and half green grapes make the 
best jelly. 

Quince Jelly 

Wipe and cut quinces in thin slices, and follow 
directions for Apple Jelly. 

A delicious jelly is made by using one half quinces and 
one half Porter apples. 

Apple Ginger 

4 pounds sour apples 2 pounds sugar 

4 lemons 1 ounce white ginger root 

Pare, core, and chop apples; wash, remove seeds, and 
chop lemons ; add sugar and ginger root, and cook very 
slowly six hours. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Chipped Pears 

4 pounds pears 2 pounds sugar 

J pound Canton ginger 4 lemons 

Pare, core, and chip pears ; wash lemons, remove seeds, 
and chop; add chopped ginger and sugar; cook very slowly 
four hours. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Currant and Raspberry Preserve 

4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

4 pounds raspberries 

Remove stems from currants, mash, cook thirty minutes, 
and strain in jelly bag. Cook sugar and juice ten minutes, 
add raspberries, bring to the boiling point, fill jars first 
with berries, then with juice, and seal. 



PBESERVING 315 

Apple Marmalade 

Apples with considerable flavor are best for marmalade. 
Wash, core, and cut apples in slices; put in kettle, add 
enough water to keep apples from burning. Cook slowly 
until mushy, press through a sieve, add equal amounts of 
sugar and apples, and flavor with orange or lemon juice. 
Cook until water is evaporated; fill glasses, and cover. 

All fruits may be made into marmalades by following 
the above directions. If the fruit lacks flavor, lemon 
juice, lemon rind, or ginger root may be cooked with the 
fruit. 

Orange Marmalade Ifo. i 

4 pounds oranges 4 pounds sugar 

boiliBg water 

Peel oranges, cut peel in quarters, cover with boiling 
water, and cook until tender. Drain, scrape to remove 
white, and cut scraped peel in shreds. Slice oranges, 
rejecting seeds and stringy portions ; add sugar, cook 
slowly forty minutes; add rind, cook two hours. Pour 
into jars or glasses. 

Orange Marmalade No. 2 

4 pounds oranges 6 pounds sugar 

6 lemons 

Slice oranges and lemons in very thin slices, reject 
seeds, cover with sugar, and cook slowly until of a thick 
consistency, about two hours. Pour into jars or glasses. 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 
4 pounds grape fruit 4 pounds sugar 

Wash grape fruit, slice thinly, remove seeds and pulpy 
portion, add sugar, and cook slowly two or three hours. 
Pour into glasses and cover. 



316 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Peach Marmalade 

4 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

juice 2 lemons 

Wipe and cut peaches in halves, remove stones, cut 
peaches in pieces; add sugar and cook slowly tvi^o hours; 
add lemon juice. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Quince, apricot, plum, and prune marmalade may be 
made like Peach Marmalade. 

Blackberry Jam 

4 pounds blackberries 2 pounds sugar 

Wash and pick over blackberries, heat, then press 
through a sieve. To this puree add sugar and boil one 
half hour. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Black, Red, and White Currant Jam 

4 pounds currants 4 pounds sugar 

Stem currants, crush slightly; add sugar, let stand over 
night ; in the morning cook slowly one half hour, stirring 
often. Turn into glasses and cover. 

Green or Ripe Grape Jam 

Wash and stem grapes. Separate skins from pulp. 
Cook skins until tender, press through a sieve. Cook 
pulps ten minutes, press through a sieve. Combine purees; 
add one pound of sugar to every quart of puree; boil one 
half hour, stirring often. Pour into glasses and cover. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Jam 

4 pounds raspberries or strawberries 2\ pounds sugar 

Mash berries; add sugar; cook thirty minutes, stirring 
very often. Pour into glasses and cover. 



PBESEEVING 317 

Spiced Currants 

4 pounds cuiTants 2 pounds brown sugar 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons clove 1 cup vinegar 

Remove stems and wash currants, add remaining ingre- 
dients, and boil twenty minutes. Keep in stone jar. 

Spiced Peaches 

4 pounds peaches 3 pounds brown sugar 

1 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon clove J teaspoon cayenne pepper 

Boil sugar and vinegar. Scald peaches, remove skins, 
and cook in syrup. Tie spices in bag and cook with 
peaches. "When peaches are tender, pour into stone jai-s, 
reheat syrup every day for a week, pouring over peaches 
when boiling. 

All kinds of small fruits may be spiced in this manner. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle 

4 quarts green tomatoes 4 cups water 

4 sliced onions 2 pounds brown sugar 

^ cup salt 2 cups vinegar 

1 tablespoon each of clove, mus- J teaspoon cayenne 
tard, and cinnamon 

Slice tomatoes, add onions and salt, and let stand twelve 
hours. Drain, add water and two cups vinegar, and boil 
one half hour. Drain, to tomatoes add remaining ingre- 
dients, and cook one half hour. Keep in stone jar in cool, 
dry place. 

PICKLES 

Sweet pickles are prepared from every fruit that can be 
preserved. Spices are generally tied in a muslin bag and 
kept in the pickle jar, and the syrup is rich in order to 
preserve the pickle. Sour pickles should always be cooked 



318 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

in granite or agate ware kettles, and if desired green, put 
on to cook in cold vinegar and brought gradually to the 
boiling point. Alum added to the pickles keeps them 
crisp. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon 

4 cups vinegar 4 tablespoons cinnamon sticks 

8 pounds sugar 4 tablespoons cloves (whole) 

watermelon 

Cut skin from watermelon ; cut rind into small pieces 
about two inches square ; cover with water and cook until 
tender. Boil sugar and vinegar ten minutes ; add spices 
tied in a bag, simmer until syrupy, about two hours ; add 
melon and simmer one hour. Fill jars and seal. 

Sweet Pickled Cantaloupe 
Prepare in the same way as Sweet Pickled Watermelon, 
substituting cantaloupe. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle 
Soak the cucumbers in a brine for two weeks ; drain, and 
slice lengthwise. Cook in a syrup made by cooking six 
pounds sugar and four quarts of vinegar; boil twenty 
minutes. Keep in tightly covered crock. 

Pickled Cucumber No. i 

100 small cucumbers 1 quart small peppers 

2 pints salt 8 quarts water 

Boil water and salt together ; pour over cucumbers and 
peppers. Let stand over night, in the morning drain. 
Make a. new brine, using same proportion ; repeat this 
process twice, then drain and wash in cold water. Place 
cucumbers and peppers in crock; cover with boiling 
vinegar. 

Twelve whole cloves and twelve peppercorns may be 
tied in a bag and kept in the pickle jar. 



PBESEBVING 319 

Pickled Cabbage 

4 quarts chopped cabbage 1 cup chopped peppers 

2 cups chopped onion salt 

Arrange cabbage, onion, and peppers in layers in an 
earthen crock ; cover each layer with salt. Let stand over 
night ; in the morning drain ; then arrange cabbage, onion, 
and peppers in layers, with cloves and mustard seeds. 
Cover with cider vinegar ; let stand twenty -four hours. 

Pickled Cabbage and Celery 
2 quarts chopped cabbage 2 quarts chopped celery 

1 cup sugar J cup salt 

J cup celery seed J cup mustard seed 

^ 3 quarts vinegar 

Cook all ingredients until cabbage is tender. Keep in 

stone crock. 

Pickled Cucumbers No. 2 

100 cucumbers sliced olive oil 

30 small onions sliced vinegar 

salt mustard seed 

Arrange cucumbers and salt in layers and let stand over 
night. Arrange onions and salt in layers and let stand 
over night. In the morning drain ; put a layer of cucum- 
bers in an earthen crock, cover with olive oil and mustard, 
then a layer of onions, and so continue until all are used. 
Cover whole with cider vinegar ; let stand covered closely 
for two months, when it is ready for use. 

Pickled Tomatoes 

2 quarts chopped tomato 1 cup chopped onion 

2 cups chopped horse-radish J cup chopped peppers 

2 cups chopped celery J cup mustard seed 

i cup salt i cup brown sugar 

1 tablespoon clove 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
4 cups vinegar 

Mix all ingredients; stir every morning for a week. 
Keep in a cool, dark place. 



320 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Mustard Pickle 

4 cups vinegar 2 tablespoons turmeric 

J pound mustard seed 1 pint button onions 

J pound horse-radish 4 cups sliced cucumbers 

J pound mustard 4 cups sliced green tomatoes 

1 cup brown sugar 4 cups cauliflower flowerets 

1 cup chopped green pepper 2 tablespoons celery seed 

Boil vinegar, spices, and sugar five minutes, add remain- 
ing ingredients, and simmer until thick. Keep in crock 
in cool place. 

Chow Chow 

1 medium-sized cauliflower 2 cups salt 

12 green peppers 4 cups vinegar 

12 cucumbers (small) 1 teaspoon cayenne 

2 cups small onions 2 quarts boiling water 

3 tablespoons mustard 

Peel onions and cook twenty minutes. Drain and cool. 
Arrange cauliflower, broken in small pieces, cucumbers, 
peppers, and onions in kettle. Cover with brine- made of 
salt and water. Let stand two days. Drain thoroughly, 
then cover with vinegar, cayenne, and mustard. Boil 
slowly one hour. Keep in Mason or Lightning jars. 

Piccalilli 

4 dozen small cucumbers 2 heads cabbage 

3 quarts small green string beans 2 heads cauliflower 

4 red peppers 1 teaspoon ginger 
4 green peppers 1 teaspoon pepper 
J cup mustard seed 1 teaspoon mace 

vinegar 

Tie spices in a muslin bag. Chop the vegetables, cover 
with salt and water, let stand over night. Drain thor- 
oughly, cover with hot vinegar, add spice bag, and let 
stand until the next morning. Reheat vinegar and pour 
over pickles ; do this for three days, then keep in earthen 
crock tightly covered. 



PRESERVING 321 

Pickled Walnuts 

Run a needle through soft walnuts ; cover with strong 
brine of salt and water; let stand in brine for a week, 
draining off brine every day, and covering with fresh 
brine. Then drain and wash walnuts, cover with vinegar, 
boil ten minutes, add a bag of spices, cover closely, and 
keep in cool place three weeks. 

For bag of spices, mix four tablespoons each of cloves, 
peppercorns, mace, celery and mustard seed. 

Chili Sauce 

2 dozen tomatoes finely chopped 1 cup brown sugar 

1 dozen onions finely chopped 3 cups cider vinegar 

1 dozen red peppers finely J cup salt 
chopped 

Mix all ingredients, add more salt if needed, and boil 
slowly until thick. Keep in air-tight jars. 

Chutney 

4 cups sliced sour apples 2 onions chopped 

8 cups chopped green tomatoes 4 cups brown sugar 

4 cups chopped raisins 1 quart vinegar 

1 sliallot chopped 1 inch ginger root 

\ cup salt 1 teaspoon cayenne 

Mix all ingredients and cook gently all day. Cool ; 
then boil hard five minutes, stirring constantly. Fill 
sterilized jars and seal. 

Tomato Ketchup No. i 

24 ripe tomatoes \ cup brown sugar 

6 onions peeled 2 tablespoons ginger 

6 green peppers 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

J cup salt 2 tablespoons mustard 
6 cups vinegar 

Peel tomatoes, and cook all ingredients six hours, stir- 
ring often. Pour into sterilized bottles and seal. 



322 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Tomato Ketchup No. 2 

1 bushel tomatoes 3 quarts vinegar 

2 tablespoons mustard 2 cups alcohol 

2 tablespoons ginger 3 cups brown sugar 

1 tablespoon cloves 1 cup salt 

1 tablespoon allspice 2 lemons finely chopped 

2 tablespoons pepper cayenne pepper 

Cook tomatoes one hour ; press through a sieve ; add all 
ingredients, except alcohol, and cook until thick ; boil one 
minute ; add alcohol, and bottle. The cooking will take 
six or eight hours; stir occasionally to keep from burning. 

Mushroom Ketchup 

Arrange layers of mushrooms and salt in preserving 
kettle ; let stand on back of stove for twelve hours. Press 
through a sieve. Measure. For each quart of mush- 
room liquor add one pint vinegar, one tablespoon salt, two 
tablespoons each of cloves, allspice, mace, and mustard 
seed. Boil until thick, then bottle. 

Cucumber Ketchup 

3 large cucumbers 2 tablespoons salt 

1 large onion 2 cups vinegar 

2 tablespoons grated horse- 2 tablespoons pepper 

radish 1 teaspoon paprika 

Grate cucumber and onion, add remaining ingredients, 
boil five minutes, bottle, and seal. 



CHAPTER XIX 
CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 

The chafing dish is composed of the blazer and hot- 
water pan, set in a standard with a small lamp underneath. 
Some lamps have an electric attachment, but alcohol is the 
fuel most used. The best alcohol is the most satisfactory, 
although many use wood alcohol. 

Every kind of dish which is usually prepared in a sauce- 
pan or double boiler can be made in the chafing dish, 
but ordinarily, oyster, inushroom, fish, egg, and cheese 
dishes are the ones most popular. 

When preparing for a chafing dish supper, arrange the 
chafing dish on a tray, have the lamp filled, and matches 
at hand. A wooden spoon or regular chafing dish spoon 
and a wire whisk are convenient and really necessary 
utensils. It is well to have all the ingredients measured 
and neatly arranged on a tray. If butter is to be used, 
butter balls, each representing a tablespoon, are a conven- 
ient and attractive way in which to serve it. 

Light the lamp and have the water boiling before the 
supper is announced, then the compounding of the dish 
may be done quickly. 

Salted Almonds 

Heat one tablespoon olive oil in chafing dish; add one 
cup blanched and dried almonds. Stir until evenly 
colored. Drain and sprinkle with salt. 

323 



324 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Deviled Almonds 

Melt one tablespoon butter in chafing dish. Add one 
tablespoon chopped red pepper, one tablespoon onion, one 
half teaspoon sa,lt, and one cup blanched almonds. Cook 
until almonds are brown. 

Deviled Beef 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons green 
pepper, one tablespoon onion, one teaspoon each of salt 
and lemon juice, one tablespoon flour. Spread on rounds 
of cold roast beef and saute in butter; or add one half 
cup tomato and reheat beef in sauce. 

Bacon and Chicken Livers 

Cut six chicken livers in slices, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Add an equal amount of sliced bacon. Cook 
together until livers are tender. Add two tablespoons 
flour, one half teaspoon salt, one cup stock or tomato. 
Season with Worcestershire and serve hot on toast. 

Bacon and Mushrooms 

Wrap eight mushrooms in eight slices of bacon. Cook 
in chafing dish until mushrooms are tender. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Chicken Livers with Mushrooms 

Make a brown sauce ; add two cups sliced cooked livers 
and one cup chopped mushrooms. Reheat and serve on 
toast. Two tablespoons wine may be added. 

Deviled Bananas 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one tablespoon chopped 
red pepper, two teaspoons chopped pickles, one teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add 
four bananas cut in four equal parts. Cook five minutes. 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 325 

Frizzled Beef 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one tablespoon flour 
and one half pound dried beef. Cook five minutes, add 
one half cup stock, few drops onion juice, one half tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, two eggs well beaten. Cook 
two minutes and serve. 

Beef with Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make a brown sauce ; add one cup currant jelly and 
twelve thin slices rare roast beef. Cook until hot and 
serve. 

Cheese Dreams 

Cut twelve thin slices of bread and remove crusts. Cut 
in halves, cover with a thin slice of American cheese, 
sprinkle with salt, paprika and cayenne ; cover with 
another slice of bread and saute on both sides in butter. 
These are more easily prepared small than large. 

Cheese Custard 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one teaspoon each of 
salt, mustard and paprika. Add two cups cheese, one 
half cup soft bread crumbs, and one cup milk. Cook five 
minutes. Add two eggs well beaten ; when thoroughly 
blended, pour on to bread toasted on one side. 

Cheese Omelet 

Melt one tablespoon butter ; add four eggs slightly 
beaten, four tablespoons milk, one half teaspoon salt, one 
cup grated cheese. Cook like a French omelet over hot 
-water. Serve with or without tomato sauce. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Melt one teaspoon butter ; add one teaspoon each of salt, 
mustard and paprika ; add two cups American chees& 



326 LOWIfEY'S COOK BOOK 

When melted, add one half cup cream or ale. Stir vigor- 
ously until smooth, and pour over hot buttered crackers 
or toast. 

Cheese and Tomato Rarebit 

Melt one tablespoon butter ; add three sliced tomatoes, 
one half cup milk, one teaspoon salt, two cups cheese. 
Stir continually until cheese is melted. Add three eggs 
well beaten. When hot, serve on hot buttered toast. 

Cheese with Red Peppers 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons 
chopped pepper, one half tablespoon chopped onion, one 
fourth cup grated cheese, one fourth cup cream, four eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook until well blended and serve on 
buttered slices of toast. 

Chicken a la Creme 

Make a white sauce ; add one and one half cups chicken 
meat, cut in cubes, one half cup mushrooms, cut in slices, 
and one red pepper, finely chopped. Add more seasoning 
if required and serve on hot toast. 

Turkey, veal, lamb, or game may be served in this way. 

Chicken and Mushrooms a la Crime 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoons floixr, 
one cup cream, one half teaspoon salt. Add one cup each 
of cold cooked chicken, cut in pieces, and cold cooked 
sweetbreads, also cut in pieces. 

Serve very hot on buttered toast. A few drops of 
Tabasco may be added. 

Curried Chicken 

Add one tablespoon curry powder to Chicken a la • 
Crgme. 



CHAFING niSH DELICAGIE8 327 

Chicken with Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cut four hard-cooked eggs in slices, add to two cups 
creamed chicken with two tablespoons sherry. 

Bechamel Eggs 

Two cups Bechamel sauce, mixed with four hard-cooked 
eggs, cat in slices ; one half cup sauted mushrooms. 
Cook all together five minutes ; serve on hot toast. 

Creamed Eggs 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two tablespoon flour, 
one fourth teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one cup 
cream. Cook until thick, add two &gg yolks and six hard- 
cooked eggs, cut in pieces, and serve hot on toast. 

Scrambled Eggs and Tomato 

Melt, two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon each 
of chopped pepper and onion, one cup cooked tomato, one 
half teaspoon salt. When hot, add four eggs slightly 
beaten ; when scrambled, serve on toast. 

Poached Eggs on Toast 
May be prepared in chafing dish. 

Creamed Lobster 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one fourth teaspoon 
salt, few grains cayenne, two tablespoons flour, one cup 
cream, few gratings nutmeg. Cook ten minutes, add 
meat from a two-pound lobster, cut in small pieces, the 
grated coral, and one tablespoon butter. One teaspoon 
Worcestershire and one teaspoon mustard may be added. 



828 LOWNEY'a COOK BOOK 

Lobster k la Newburg 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon flour, 
one teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, one cup cream. 
Cook five minutes ; add three egg yolks well beaten, the 
meat from a two-pound lobster, and just before serving, 
one third cup each of sherry and brandy. 

Lobster with Pimolas 

Mix one cup brown sauce, one cup sliced pimolas, two 
hard-cooked eggs, cut in slices, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
few gratings nutmeg, and two tablespoons sauted mush- 
rooms, with two cups lobster meat. Serve when hot with 
slices of brown bread toast. 

Lobster with Mushrooms 

Melt three tablespoons butter ; add one cup fresh 
mushrooms, cut in slices, few drops onion juice, two ta- 
blespoons flour, one cup cream or chicken stock ; meat 
from a two-pound lobster and salt, pepper, and cayenne 
to taste. Serve when hot. 

Lamb Terrapin 

Mix two cups cold cooked lamb, cut in small pieces, 
two hard-cooked eggs, chopped fine, two tablespoons olive 
oil. Let stand two minutes. Melt two tablespoons but- 
ter ; add two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon mustard, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and one cup lamb stock, 
or milk. Cook five minutes. Add lamb and eggs and 
serve on graham toast. 

Sauted Oysters 

Season four dozen large oysters with salt, pepper, onion 
juice and lemon juice. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and saute in butter. 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 329 

Fricassee of Oysters and ISIushrooms 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one tablespoon flour, 
one half finely chopped onion, one cup mushrooms, broken 
in small pieces, one cup chicken stock or one cup oyster 
liquor. Cook five minutes and add two cups oysters 
drained from their liquor. Reheat ; season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and Worcestershire sauce. Serve with 
brown bread sandwiches. 

Celeried Oysters 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two cups each of cel- 
ery and oysters. Season with salt, cayenne and lemon 
juice. Serve hot with crisp toast. 

Shrimps and Tomatoes 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one can tomatoes ; 
simmer until of puree consistency. Season highly with 
salt, pepper and onion juice. Add two cups shrimps 
which have been marinated in French dressing for one 
hour. When hot, serve on hot buttered toast. 

Sweetbreads with Bacon 
Cut cooked sweetbreads in inch pieces. Sprinkle with 
salt, cayenne, lemon juice and onion juice. Wrap in slices 
of bacon. Skewer, saute in butter. Serve with brown 
sauce, and garnish with finely chopped celery. 

Calves' Brains a la Bechamel 
Cut two cups cooked brains in small pieces. Marinate 
with French dressing. Melt two tablespoons butter ; 
add four tablespoons chopped peppers, one half cup 
chopped mushrooms, few drops onion juice, two table- 
spoons flour, and one cup chicken stock. Cook five min- 
utes ; add brains ; season with salt, cayenne, Tabasco and 
Worcestershire. 



330 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Buttered Tomatoes 

Melt one half cup butter ; sprinkle six sliced tomatoes 
with salt and pepper ; put in chafing dish ; cover and 
cook twenty minutes. Serve on toast. 

Venison with Currant Jelly 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add one quarter teaspoon 
salt, few grains cayenne, one tablespoon lemon juice, one 
cup currant jelly, one cup sherry; cook five minutes. 
Keep hot while cooking slice of venison steak in chafing 
dish eight minutes. Serve sauce with venison. 

Venison Stew 

Cut one slice venison steak in inch pieces. Cover with 
chicken or veal stock ; simmer until tender, about fifteen 
minutes ; season with salt and pepper ; add one cup cur- 
rant jelly and serve. 

Sauted Bananas 

Peel and cut four bananas in four pieces ; melt two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, and one half 
cup sherry ; when hot, add bananas, and cook until ba- 
nanas are hot and tender. 

Hot Fruit Salad 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add four tablespoons 
sugar, one quarter cup water, and one quarter cup lemon 
juice ; add two cups mixed fruit, apples, bananas, figs and 
cherries ; when hot, serve with cream sweetened and 
beaten until stiff. 

Peach Canap6 

Melt two tablespoons butter ; add two cups peaches 
with skin and stones removed ; cook ten minutes j add 



CHAFING DISH DELICACIES 331 

sugar and lemon juieei and serve on slices of sauted bread 
or sponge cake ; garnish with cream. 

Pineapple Canap€ 

Substitute two cups shredded pineapple for peaches, and 
follow directions for Peach Canape. 



CHAPTER XX 
COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 

The preparation of food for the sick and convalescent 
person is even more important than the preparation for 
the strong and well. ' Certain points should always be 
considered. The food should be freshly prepared, dain- 
tily served, and if possible different dishes for each meal. 

The arrangement of the tray is often of great impor- 
tance. Select attractive dishes and arrange them so that 
the patient can reach them without trouble. Serve every-, 
thing which should be hot, very hot, and cold dishes, ice- 
cold. 

Apple Water 

1 large juicy apple 2 cups water 

sugar 

Wash, pare, core, and cut apple into pieces; add water 
and simmer until tender; strain, add sugar to water, cook 
five minutes, chill, and serve. If apple is not tart, a small 
amount of lemon juice may be added to give a more agree- 
able flavor. 

Pears, peaches, plums, figs, prunes, raisins and rhubarb 
may be used in the same way. 

Barley Water 

2 cups boiling water salt 

J tablespoon prepared barley sugar 

Mix barley with a small amount of cold water, add to 
boiling water, and simmer twenty minutes. Season with 
salt and sugar. Lemon juice may be added if desired, 

332 



COOKERY FOB THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 333 

Cinnamon Water 
J ounce stick cinnamon 2 cups boiling water 

Break cinnamon in small pieces, add water, and boil 
twenty minutes. Strain and serve hot or cold. 

Currant Water 

2 tablespoons currant jelly 1 cup boiling water 

Mix jelly and water, strain, chill, and serve. 
Cranberry, strawberry, raspberry, blackberry and plum 
water may be prepared in the same way. 

Distilled Water 

This may be prepared at home by attaching one end of 
a curved tube to the spout of the teakettle, and having 
the other end placed in a jar. The jar should be placed 
in a kettle of cold water. This condensed steam is dis- 
tilled water. 

Flaxseed Tea 

J cup flaxseed 4 cups boiling water 

salt sugar 

lemon juice 

Roil flaxseed and water one hour, strain, sweeten, and 
flavor. Serve hot or cold. 

Grape Water 

2 cups grapes IJ cups boiling water 

Wash grapes, mash, add water, simmer ten minutes, 
strain, chill, and serve. 

Lemonade 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons sugar syrup 

1 cup cold water 

Mix ingredients, add crushed ice, and serve ice-cold 
with straws. 



334 » LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Oatmeal Water 

4 tablespoons fine oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

salt 

Boil all ingredients twenty minutes, strain, cool, add 
water to make of pleasant consistency. 

Tamarind Water 

1 tablespoon tamarinds 1 cup boiling water 

Let tamarinds stand in water one half hour, strain, chill, 
and serve. 

Toast Water 

Dry and brown in the oven very thin slices of white or 
graham bread, break into small pieces, cover with boiling 
water; when cold, strain and season with salt. 

Sugar Syrup 

1 cup sugar J cup boiling water 

Boil two minutes, keep in preserve jar, and use when 
needed. 

Irish Moss Lemonade 

4 tablespoons Irish moss 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups cold water sugar syrup 

Pick over and soak moss in cold water to cover for one 
half hour; drain, cover with two cups cold water, and 
cook ten minutes ; strain, add lemon juice and sugar 
syrup to taste. 

Milk Punch 

I cup fresh milk 2 tablespoons brandy or whiskey 

salt nutmeg 

I sugar 

Sweeten milk to taste, add salt and liquor, and pour 
from one tumbler to another until frothy. 



COOKERY FOB THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 335 

Egg and Milk Punch 

1 egg 1 tablespoon whiskey or brandy 

I cup mUk 2 teaspoons sugar 

Beat yolk ; add milk, liquor and sugar, pour into glass ; 
add weU-beaten white of egg, stir lightly, and serve. 

Eggnog 

1 egg 2 tablespoons wine, whiskey, or 

1 teaspoon sugar brandy 

salt 1 cup cream 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add beaten cream and 
liquor, then well-beaten yolk mixed with sugar and salt. 

Milk or hot water may be substituted for the cream, 
and the yolk and white may be beaten together just 
slightly if a foamy eggnog is disliked. 

Koumiss 

Heat four cups milk ; cool ; when lukewarm, add one 
fourth yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup lukewarm 
water, and two tablespoons sugar. Pour into bottles with 
patent stoppers, fill two thirds full, cork tightly. Shake ; 
let stand in kitchen six hours, then on ice for twenty-four 
hours ; serve ice cold. 

Egg Cordial 

X egg white 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon brandy or wine few grains salt 
2 tablespoons cream 

Beat white until frothy ; add cream and continue beat- 
ing ; add remaining ingredients and serve immediately. 

Orange Egg Cordial 

Prepare as Egg Cordial, omitting wine and cream, and 
using the juice of one orange. 



336 lOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

Albuminized Milk 

1 egg white j cup mUk 

salt 

Beat white until frothy ; add salt and milk, and con- 
tinue beating ; strain and serve. 

Egg and Lemon 

1 egg 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
salt 1 teaspoon sugar 

Beat egg, add remaining ingredients, and serve cold. 

Wine Whey 

2 cups milk J cup wine 

Scald milk ; add wine ; let stand until curds separate 
from whey. Strain and serve hot or cold. Lemon or 
Vinegar Whey may be prepared in the same way ; allow 
one tablespoon vinegar or two tablespoons lemon juice. 

Barley Gruel 

1 tablespoon barley flour J cup boiling water 

J cup cold water |- cup milk 

salt 

Mix barley with cold water and salt ; add boiling water 
and cook in double boiler one half hour; add milk and 
cook ten minutes more ; if too thick, thin with hot milk or 
cream. 

Entire Wheat Gruel 

J cup entire wheat 3 cups water (hot) 

^ cup cold water salt 

Mix wheat and cold water, add boiling water and salt, 
and cook in double boiler one to two hours. Milk may 
be substituted for water. 



COOKEBT FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 337 

Cracker Gruel 

2 tablespoons cracker crumbs 1 cup milk 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix crumbs and milk and cook in double boiler twenty- 
minutes ; add salt and serve. 

Dried bread crumbs may be substituted for cracker 

crumbs. 

Com Meal Gruel 

2 tablespoons corn meal J cup milk 

J teaspoon salt 2 cups boiling -water 

Mix corn meal, salt and milk ; add boiling -water and 
cook in double boiler t-w-o hours. 

Flour Gruel 

2 tablespoons flour 2 cups scalded milk 

} cup cold -water J teaspoon salt 

Mix flour -with cold -water, add scalded milk and salt. 
Cook in double boiler thirty minutes, stirring often. 

Flour Ball for Flour Gruel 

Knead two cups flour into a ball, adding water to form 
a stiff dough. Tie ball in a linen cloth and boil in deep 
saucepan ten to twelve hours, keeping the cloth covered 
with boiling water all of the time. Dry in cloth, remove 
cloth, and dry ball in oven. This will keep for years. 
Scrape two tablespoons from the ball; add one fourth 
cup cold water and two cups scalded milk ; cook in double 
boiler ten minutes, add salt, and serve. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tablespoons oatmeal J cup cold water 

2 cups boiling -water I teaspoon salt 

Mix oatmeal with cold water; add salt and boiling 
water, and cook two hours, or better still over night, in 



338 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

double boiler. Strain and serve ; thin with hot water or 
milk if not of the desired consistency. 

Oatmeal Caudle 

Add one egg yolk and one tablespoon brandy or sherry 
to Oatmeal Gruel. 

Rice Gruel 

2 tablespoons ground rice 2 cups milk 

J cup cold water J teaspoon salt 

Mix rice and cold water; add scalded milk and cook in 
double boiler two hours, stirring occasionally. Strain, 
add salt, and serve. 

Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in one quarter inch slices ; remove 
crusts or not as preferred. Dry in oven; place on toaster 
and toast over clear fire, first on one side and then on 
the other, having both sides a golden brown. Arrange in 
toast rack or cover with napkin. 

Buttered Toast 

Prepare bread as for Dry Toast, and spread with butter 
as soon as taken from toaster. 

Water Toast 

Prepare bread as for Dry Toast, dip in hot salted water, 
drain, and spread with butter. 

Milk Toast 

3 cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons flour 
3 tablespoons butter J teaspoon salt 

I cup cold milk toasted bread 

Toast bread according to recipe for Dry Toast. Mix 
flour and cold milk; add to scalded milk and cook in 
double boiler twenty minutes, stirring constantly at first; 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 339 

add salt and butter; dip toast in sauce; serve in hot 
dish; add remaining sauce. 

Cream Toast 

Prepare in the same way as Milk Toast, substituting 
cream for milk. 

Brown Bread Toast 

Cut brown bread in thin slices; dry in oven, then toast; 
butter each slice, and cover with scalded milk. 

Pulled Bread 

Remove the crust from fresh bread and tear the center 
in small pieces. Dry in slow oven ; the center of biscuits 
may be prepared in the same way. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Cut bread in thin slices; remove crusts; spread with 
creamed butter; put two slices together; cut in desired 
shapes. Arrange on fancy plate. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Cut bread in thin slices; remove crusts; shape and spread 
with raw beef. Serve as soon as made. 

To scrape Raw Beef 

Buy bottom or top of round of beef; wipe, then scrape 
with a teaspoon ; there should be nothing but fiber left 
when all meat is scraped. 

Fig Sandwiches 
Fill bread and butter sandwiches with stewed figs. 

Beef Juice 

Buy one half pound from top of round; wipe, and set in 
oven five minutes; cut in thin slices, squeeze, using meat 



340 LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 

press or lemon squeezer. Serve in warm, not hot cups, 
with salt or not. 

Beef Tea 

Wipe one half pound of round steak; remove all fat; 
cut in small pieces; add one cup cold water; place in pre- 
serve jar, cover, and let stand ten minutes ; place jar on 
trivet in saucepan surrounded with cold water. Heat 
gradually on back of range ; keep water just simmering 
for one hour. Strain, add salt, and serve in hot cup. 

Beef Essence 

Wipe one half pound round steak ; remove fat ; chop very- 
fine; place in fruit jar; cover, place jar on trivet, surround 
with cold water, and keep water just bubbling for one 
and a half hours. Strain, press meat to extract all juice, 
season, serve in hot cup. 

Frozen Beef Tea 

Prepare beef tea, pour into glass, surrounded with ice 
and salt, and freeze, turning often. 

Scraped Beef Balls 

Prepare scraped beef according to rule. Season ; shape 
in round balls about the size of marbles; cook in hissing 
hot frying pan; keep pan constantly in motion, and cook 
balls two minutes. Serve on small strips of toasted bread; 
garnish with parsley. 

Mutton Broth 

Wipe two pounds neck of mutton; remove all fat and 
cut off skin; cut meat in small pieces. Put meat and 
bones in kettle; add four cups cold water, and simmer 
gently several hours; add salt to taste. Strain, let stand 



COOKERY FOB THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 341 

over night to cool; in the morning remove fat, reheat, and 
serve with two tablespoons cooked rice in broth. 

Chicken Broth 

Cut up a three-pound fowl; remove skin and all fat. 
Put in soup kettle ; add ten cups cold water, and simmer 
until meat falls from bones. Strain; let stand over night 
to cool; remove fat; reheat, season with salt, and serve 
with boiled rice or crofttons. 

Clam Broth 

Wash dozen clams, put in kettle, cover, and cook until 
shells open. Strain clam liquor through cheese cloth and 
serve very hot. 

Rennet Custard 

4 cups milk 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 tablespoon liquid rennet few grains salt 

4 tablespoons sugar 

Mix sugar, brandy and salt. Heat milk until luke- 
warm ; add rennet and other ingredients ; pour into serv- 
ing dish and let stand until a firm curd is formed, then 
chill. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Calf's Foot Jelly 

1 calf's foot i cup lemon juice 

4 cups cold -water ^ cup sugar 

J cup sherry 3 egg whites 

Cook the calf's foot in cold water, slowly, for four hours. 
Skim often while cooking. Strain ; let stand over night. 
Remove fat ; add whites of eggs slightly beaten, and bring 
slowly to the boiling point ; boil one minute, strain through 
cheese cloth, add remaining ingredients, and pour into 
molds. Chill and serve. 



342 LOWNET'S COOK-BOOK 

Strawberry Whip 

2 egg whites 1 cup strawberries 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Hull and wash the strawberries, add sugar and lemon 
juice. Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, add other in- 
gredients, and serve ice-cold in frappe glasses. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 

2 tablespoons arrowroot 2 tablespoons sugar 
few grains of salt 1| cups milk 

flavoring 

Mix arrowroot, salt and sugar; add milk, a little at 
a time, until the mixture is smooth, then add the remain- 
der, and cook in double boiler one half hour, stirring all 
the time. Add flavoring, pour into molds, and serve 
with soft custard or cream. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash prunes ; soak over night in water to cover ; cook 
slowly, in same water, until tender. A small amount of 
sugar and lemon juice may be added if desired. 

Stewed Figs 

Wash figs; cut in pieces; for each cup of figs add one 
quarter cup cold water, simmer one hour; add sugar and 
lemon juice if allowed. 

Oatmeal Wafers 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons butter 

^ cup fine oatmeal I teaspoon salt 

^ cup rolled oats \ cup hot milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix butter and milk; when cool, add remaining in- 
gredients. Roll very thin, shape in squares, and bake in 
a slow oven. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



A Cook Book for Nurses 

Boston Cook Book 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book 

Canning and Preserving 

Century Cook Book 

Chemistry of Cookery . 

Chemistry and Economy of Food 

Cost of Food .... 

Cost of Living 

Dainty Breakfasts 

Dietetic Value of Bread 

Fish as Food 

Food Products of the World 

Handbook of Invalid Cooking 

Home Science Cook Book 

How to Cook for the Sick and Convalescent 

I Go A-marketing 

Luncheons 

Made Over Dishes 

Marion Harland's Complete Cook Book 

Practical Cooking and Serving 

Salads, Sandwiches, and Chafing Dish Dainties 

Young Housekeeper 



Sakah C. Hill 
Maky J. Lincoln 
Fannie M. Farmer 

S. T. ROKER 

Maky Ronald 
Mattieu Williams 
Atwater 
Richards 
Richards 
Phyllis Browne 
Goodfellow 
S. Department of Agriculture 
Maky E. Green, M. D. 
Mart A. Boland 
Anna Barrows and Mary J. Lincoln 
H. v. Sachsb 
"Henrietta " 
Mary Ronald 
Mrs. Rorer 
Marion Harland 
Janet McK. Hill 
Janet McK. Hill^ 
Maria Parloa 



U. 



343 



GLOSSARY 

Anchovy — A fish caught in the Mediterranean. 

Anchovy Essence — Consists of pounded anchovies cooked with water, 
vinegar, spices, and mushrooms. 

Angelica — A plant, the stalks of which are preserved, used for 

decorating. 
• Appetizers — Cold hors d'oeuvres, side dishes, served preliminary to the 
dinner, supposed to create an appetite for something more 
i substantial . 

I Au, Aux — To or with. 
I Bain-marie — A double boiler. 
'Bisque — A paste or pur^e. 

Blanch — To scald. 

Bombe — Ices in a mold, an outside coating of one kind, a filling of 
another. 

BouchSe — Mouthful. 

Bouillon — Beef broth. 

Brioche — A bread made rich with eggs. 

Brochette — A skewer. 

Caviare — Salted and smoked sturgeon roe. 

Curafoa — A cordial. 

Cutlets — Steaks of veal, lamb, mutton, or pork. 

EntrSe — A made dish served as a course or between courses. 

Foie-gras — Fat liver; especially the liver of fat geese. 

Fondue — Cheese and eggs cooked together. 

Fondant — Cooked and beaten sugar, ready to fiavor and mold for 
centers of bonbons. 

Fran(aise — In French style. 

Frappfi — Half frozen. 

Fricassee — Originally meat fried and served with a sauce. 

Gherkins — Small cucumbers. 

Giblets — The neck, liver, gizzard, and heart of poultry or game. 

GlacS — Glossed over. 

Hors d'oeuvres — Side dishes. 

Italienne — In Italian style. 

Jardiniere — Mixed vegetables. 

345 



346 LOWNET'S COOK BOOK 

Koumiss — Fermented milk. 

Macedoine — A mixture of several fruits or vegetables. 

Marrons — Chestnuts. 

Mayonnaise — Salad sauce. 

Meringue — Mixture of sugar and white of egg beaten together. 

Mignon — Small. 

Mousse — Moss, froth, something light and spongy. 

Mulligatawny — Curry soup. 

Noir — Black. 

Papillote — Paper. 

Parf ait — Perfect. 

Patfi — Paste. 

Pilaf — Turkish dish of rice and tomatoes. 

Potage — Soup. 

PrintaniSre {k la) — With young spring vegetables. 

Purfie — Ingredients rubbed through a sieve. 

Ragoflt — A highly seasoned fish or meat dish. 

Rissoles — Something crisp. 

Riz — Rice. 

Soux — Butter and flour mixed and used for thickening. 

Sabayon — A custard flavored with wine. 

Scones — Scotch name for baking powder biscuit. 

Sorbet — Frozen punch. 

Souffl£ — A puff, something light and fluffy. 

Syllabub — Old English name for whipped and flavored cream. 



INDEX 




Lo^vney*s Premium Chocolate goes further 
than other cooking chocolates, because it 
is absolutely pure, and is made of the 
choicest and highest-priced cocoa beans, 
especially selected and blended. It is what 
used to be called "bitter chocolate," be- 
cause it is unsweetened. It is very econom- 
ical to use in cooking, because every atom 
of it is the choicest chocolate,— no adulter- 
ation in Lowney's. 



INSIST ON HAVING LOWNEY'S PREMIUM CHOCOLATE 
THE DEALER CAN GET IT EASILY IF YOU INSIST 



INDEX 



Accessories for Soup, 37. 
Albuminized Milk, 336. 
Almond Cake, 258. 
Almonds, 301. 

Sticks, 243. 

Deviled, 324. 

Salted, 323. 
Anchovy Canapes, 33. 

Sandwich, 187. 
Angel Cake, 257. 
Angelettes, Chocolate, 264. 
Apple, Batter Pudding, 220. 

Charlotte, 219. 

Dumpling, 218. 

Dumpling, Baked, 216. 

Flame, 217. 

Flamingo, 217. 

Fritters, 169. 

Ginger, 314. 

Indian Pudding, 225. 

Jelly, 312. 

Marmalade, 315. 

Meringue, 202. 

Nests, 219. 

Pie, 237. 

Rice Pudding, 211. 

Sago, 201. 

Sauce, 228. 

Scalloped, 218. 

Souffle, 218, 

Sponge, 216. 

Tapicoa, 201. 

Tarts, 243. 

Water, 332. 
Apples, 299. 
Apples, and Pineapples, Canned, 

Baked, 217. 

Canned, 304. 

on a Bed of Rice, 219. 

Preserved, 308. 

Stewed, 221. 
Apricot, Marmalade, 315. 

Sauce. 228. 



Apricots, Preserved, 310. 
Arrowroot, Blanc Mange, 342. 

Custard, 197. 
Artichoke Soup, 42. 
Artichokes, Globe, 97, 98. 

Jerusalem, 98. 

Scalloped Globe, 98. 

with HoUandaise Sauce, 147. 
Asparagus, 97, 98. 

in Croustades, 147. 

Soup, 42. 
Aspic Jelly, 128. 

Jelly, Quick, 129. 

of Pat6 de Foie Gras, 136. 

Bacon, and Chicken Livers, 324. 

and Mushrooms, 324. 

Broiled, 89. 

Canapfe, 34. 

Cooked in the oven, 89. 

Omelet, 115. 
Baking Powder Biscuit, 162. 
Ball, Flour, 337. 
Banana, Cust ixd, 197. 

Fried in Crumbs, 148. 

Fritters, 169. 

Ice Cream, 283. 

Sauce, 228. 
Bananas, 299. 

Deviled, 324. 

Sauted, 330. 
Banbury Squares, 243. 

Tarts, 243. 
Bangor Brownies, 261. 
Barberry Jelly, 313. 
305. Barley, Gruel, 336. 

Water, 332. 
Batter, for Fruit Fritters, 149, 169. 

Peach, 220. 
Bavarian Cream, Chocolate, 207. 
Beans, Agricukural, 83. 

Baked. 43. 

Canned, 307. 
.3<I9 



350 



INDEX 



Beans, continued. 

Kidney, 98. 

Lima, 98. 

SheUed, 98. 

String, 99. 
Bean Soup, 42. 
Beef, 13, 76. 

Balls, Scraped, 340. 

Boiled, 76. 

Braised, 77. 

Deviled, 324. 

Essence, 340. 

Fillet of, 77. 

Fillet of, Broiled, 78. 

Fillet of. Broiled, with Oysters, 78. 

Fillet of. Sauted, 78. 

Frizzled, 325. 

Juice, 339. 

Mignons of. Deviled, 139. 

RagoAt, 80. 

Roast, 79. 

Sandwich, Raw, 339. 

Steak, Broiled, 81. 

Steak, Smothered in Onions, 81. 

Spiced, 80. 

Stewed, 80. 

Tea, 340. 

Tea, Frozen, 340. 

with Currant Jelly Sauce, 325. 
Beets, 97, 99. 
Beet Tops, 100. 
Berry Muffins, 163. 
Berries, 299. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 162. 

Drop, 162. 

Fruit, 163. 

Tortoni, 290. 
Bisque, Clam, 54. 

Crab, 54. 

Lobster, 54. 

Oyster, 55. 

Oyster k la Reine, 55. 

Shrimp, Bretonne, 55. 
Blackberries, Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 308. 
Blackberry, Dumpling, 223. 

Jam, 316. 

JeUy, 313. 

Pie, 237. 

Shortcake, 167. 
Black Currant Jam, 316. 
Blanc Mange, Arrowroot, 342. 

Chocolate, 191. 



Blanc Mange, continued. 

Chocolate Irish Moss, 200. 

Coffee Irish Moss, 200. 

Irish Moss, 199. 
Blueberries, Canned, 305. 
Blueberry Pie, 237. 

Pudding, Steamed, 222. 

Puffs, 224. 
Bluefish, Baked, 66. 
Bombe Glac6, Raspberry, 291. 

Strawberry, 291. 
Bouch^e, 241. 

Bouch^es k la Macedoine, 146. 
Bouillon, 56. 
Braids, 160. 
Brains, Breaded, 143. 

Scalloped, 142. 
Brandy Cocoa, 294. 
Brazilian Nuts, 301. 
Bread and Butter Sandwich, 339. 
Bread, Date, 158. 

Entire Wheat, 157. 

Filbert, 158. 

Five Hour, 162. 

Gluten, 158. 

Graham, 157. 

Griddle Cakes, 167. 

Hard Ginger, 266. 

Milk, 156. 

Milk and Water, 157. 

Pudding, 222. 

Pudding, Buttered, 222. 

Pulled, 162, 339. 

Raised Brown, 158. 

Rye, 157. 

Squash, 162. 

Sticks, 160. 

Toast Brown, 339. 

Walnut, 158. 

Water, 157. 
Breakfast Cocoa, 294. 
Bride's Cake, 258. 
Brioche, 159. 
Broth, Chicken, 341. 

Clam, 341. 

Mutton, 340. 
Brown Betty, 219. 
Brown Bread Ice Cream, 283. 
Brown Bread, Raised, 158. 
Brownies, Bangor, 261. 

Lowney's, 265. 
Brown Sugar Frosting, 274. 
Brussels Sprouts, 97, 99. 



INDEX 



S51 



Buckwheat Cakes, 168. 
Buns, 159. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream, 286. 
Butter Cake, Simple, 251. 
Buttercups, 302. 
Butter Scotch, 301. 
Ta£fy, 301. 

Cabbage, 97, 99. 

and Celery, Pickled, 319. 

Pickled, 319. 

Soup, 44. 

Sprouts, Young, 99. 
Cat«, Frapp6, 292. 

Parfait, 289. 
Cake, Almond, 258. 

Angel, 257. 

Bride's, 258. 

Chocolate, 248, 258. 

Chocolate Marshmallow, 255. 

Chocolate Pound, 249. 

Chocolate Raisin, 249. 

Chocolate Sponge, 250. 

Chocolate Walnut, 250. 

Cocoa, 249. 

Cold Water Sponge, 256. 

Cream Sponge, 257. 

Currant, 251. 

Dutch Apple, 163. 

Fig, 255. 

Fruit, 254. 

Gold, 251. 

Hot Water Sponge, 256. 

Imperial, 254. 

Layer, 251. 

Lowney's Chocolate, 263. 

Marble, 253. 

Marshmallow, 255. 

Mocha, 255. 

Nut, 252. 

Orange, 252. 

Plain Chocolate, 248. 

Plain Sponge, 255. 

Pound, 253. 

Raised Fruit, 254. 

Short, 166. 

Silver, 252. 

Simple Butter, 251. 

Simple Chocolate, 256. 

Spice, 252. 

Sunshine, 258. 

True Sponge, 257. 

Walnut Chocolate, 250. 



Cakes, Flannel, 168. 

Calf's Brains, h la BiSchamel, 329. 

Brains in Batter, 142. 

Foot Jelly, 341. 

Heart, Stuffed, 140. 

Liver, Fried, 138. 
Canap6, Peach, 330. 

Pineapple, 331. 
Canapes, 33. 

Anchovy, 33. 

Bacon, 34. 

Caviare, 33. 

Cheese, 33. 

Crab, 34. 

Ham, 34. 

Lobster, 34. 

Nut and Olive, 35. 

Salmon, 34. 

Sardine, 35. 

Tomato and Cucvunber, 35. 

Tongue, 35. 
Caviare Canapfe, 33. 
Candy, see Lowney's Chocolate, 301. 

Cream, 301. 

Maple Sugar, 302. 

Molasses, 302. 
Cantaloupe, Banana, 209. 

Sweet Pickled, 318. 
Canteloupes, 300. 
Capon, Roast, 93. 
Caramel, Custard, Baked, 198, 199. 

Custard, Soft, 198. 

Filling, 275. 

Frosting, 270, 271. 

Ice Cream, 286. 

Rice Pudding, 223. 

Sauce, 229. 
Carrots, 97, 99. 

Sauted, 99. 

with White Sauce, 99. 
Castana, 301. 
Caudle Oatmeal, 338. 
Cauliflower, 97, 99. 

au gratin, 147. 

Fritters, 170. 

Scalloped, 99, 100. 

with White Sauce, 99, 100. 
Caviare Sandwiches, 187. 
Celery, 100. 

au jus, 147. 

Fried, 100. 

Fritters, 170. 

Sandwiches, 187. 



352 



INDEX 



Celery, continued. 

Scalloped, 100. 

with White Sauce, 100. 
Charlotte, Apple, 219. 
Charlotte Russe, Caramel, 210. 

Chocolate, 192. 

French, 210. 

Strawberry, 211. 

Vanilla, 210. 
Champagne Cup, 267. 
Chantilly Tarts, 244. 
Cheese and Tomato Rarebit, 326. 

Balls, 38. 

Canapfe, 33. 

Crackers, 37. 

Custard, 325. 

Dreams, 325. 

Omelet, 325. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Straws, 243. 

with Red Peppers, 326. 
Cherries, 299. 

Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 309. 
Cherry Duff, 223. 

Jelly, 313. 

Sauce, 229. 
Chestnut Cream, 202. 

Mixture, 195. 

Soup, 45. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Chesnuts with Chocolate Cream, 

195. 
Chicken, k la Crime, 326. 

Baked, 146. 

Baltimore, 91. 

Boiled, 89. 

Braised, 89. 

Breasts in Aspic, 136. 

Broiled, 90. 

Broth, 341. 

Consomm^, 58. 

Consomm^ with Custard, 59. 

Consumm^ with Macaroni, 59. 

Creole, 91. 

Croquettes, 134. 

Curried, 326. 

Forcemeat, 128. 

Fricassee, 91. 

Fried, 90. 

Fried in Batter, 91. 

Gumbo Soup, 60. 



Chicken, continued. 
in Aspic, 136. 
Livers in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 

131. 
Livers with Mushrooms, 324. 
Mousse, 129. 
Pie, 92. 
Pie, Old-fashioned, English, 92. 

Quenelles, 40. 

Rissoles, 144. 

Roast, 93. 

Roast, Boned, 92. 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Sauted, 90. 

Souffle, 129. 

Stock, 60. 

Stuffing for Peppers, 153. 

Supreme, 146. 

Timbales, 129. 

with Hard Cooked Eggs, 327. 
Chili Sauce, 321. 
Chocolate, 293. 

and Rice Pudding, 2J5. 

Balls, 214. 

Bavarian Cream, 193. 

Blanc Mange, 191. 

Bread Pudding, 213. 

Cake, 248, 258. 

Cake, Lowney's, 263. 

Cake, Plain, 248. 

Cake, Simple, 256. 

Charlotte Russe, 192. 

Condensed Milk, 294. 

Cookies, 264. 

Cream, 195. 

Cream Custard, 193. 

Cream Pie, 240. 

Cream Sauce, 235. 

Dominoes, 264. 

Emergency, 293. 

Fig Ice Cream, 281. 

Filling, Rich, 274. 

Fining, Simple, 275. 

Frosting, 269. 

Frosting, Rich, 269. 

Frozen, 284. 

Hermits, Lowney's, 263. 

Ice Cream, 282, 283. 

Jumbles, 262. 

Junket, 196. 

Junket Ice Cream, 282. 

Macaroons, 265. 

Mould, 192. 



INDEX 



353 



Chocolate, continued. 

Marshmallow Cake, 255. 

Mousse, 284. 

Nut Cakes, 251. 

Nut Pudding, 214. 

Nut Pudding, Steamed, 215. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream, 282. 

Plain, 293. . 

Pound Cake, 249. 

Pudding, Imperial, 211. 

Pudding, Steamed, 216. 

Raisin Cake, 249. 

Raisin Pudding, 214. 

Raspberry Meringue, 196. 

Sauce, 195. 

Souffle, Baked, 213. 

Souffle, Frozen, 285. 

Sponge Cake, 250. 

Swedish Meringues, 263. 

Trifle, 193. 

Wafers, 261. 

Walnut Cake, 250. 

Walnut Wafers, 262. 
Chops, Baked, 86. 

Broiled French, 87. 

Broiled Loin, 87. 

Lamb, Breaded, 85. 

Lamb or Mutton, 86. 

Lamb, stuffed, 86. 

Lamb, with Soubise Sauce, 86. 

Pan-broiled, 87. 

Pork, Baked, 88. 

Pork, Broiled, 88. 

Pork, Sauted, 88. 

Veal, 84. 

Venison, 96. 
Chow Chow, 320. 
Chowder, Corn, 51. 

Clam, 52. 

Crab, 53. 

Fish, 52. 

Lobster,' 53. 

New England, 52. 

Potato, 51. 

Salt Cod Fish, 53. 

Shrimp, 53. 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 226. 
Chutney, 321. 
Cider Cup, 297. 
Cinnamon Water, 333. 
Citron Pie, 238. 

Preserved, 309. 
Clam Bisque, 54, 55. 



Clam, continued. 

Broth, 341. 

Cocktail, 36. 

Chowder, 52. 

Fritters, 72. 

Steamed, 72. 
Clams on the Half Shell, 36. 
Claret, Cup, 297. 

Sauce 230. 
Club Sadwiches, 189. 
Cocktail, Clam, 36. 

Oyster, 36. 
Cocoa Almond Cream, 194. 

Brandy, 294. 

Breakfast, 294. 

Cake, 249. 

Cocoanut Cookies, 265. 

Cocoanut Cream, 285. 

Cream, 194. 

Frapp^, 282. 

Frosting, 269. 

Froth, 196. 

Fruit Pudding, 215. 

Ice Cream, 284. 

Macaroon Ice Cream, 285. 

Nougat Filling, 275. 

Tutti-frutti Cream, 194. 

Nut Cream Ice, 286. 
Cocoanut Candy, 302. 

Cornstarch Mould, 200. 

Filling, 276. 

Frosting, 272. 

Moulds with Chocolate Sauce, 195, 

Pie, 238. 
Cod Fish, Salt, Chowder, 53. 
Coffee, Black, 296. 

Boiled, 295, 296. 

Custard, 198. 

Filling, 276. 

French, 296. 

Frosting, 271. 

Ice Cream, 286. 

Iced, 296. 

Mousse, 288. 

Sauce, 230. 
Compote of Figs, 212. 
Consomm^, 57. 

k I'ltahenne, 58. 

au Riz, 58. 

Chicken, 58. 

Chicken, with Custard, 59. 

Chicken, with Macaroni, 59. 

Swiss, 58. 



354 



INDEX 



Consomm6, continued. 

Vegetable, 57. 

with Barley, 57. 

with Claret, 57. 

with Eggs, 57. 
College Pudding, 220. 
Cookies, Chocolate, 264. 

Cocoa Coooanut, 265. 

Nut, 260. 

Sand, 260. 

Sugar, 260. 
Cordial, Egg, 335. 

Orange Egg, 335. 
Corn, 97, 100. 

Cake, Spider, 165. 

Canned, 307. 

Chowder, 51. 

Fritters, 170. 

Muffins, 164. 

Oysters, 150. 

Soup, 45. 
Corn Meal, Gruel, 337. 

Mush, 111. 

Mush, Fried, 111. 

Mush, Sauted, 111. 
Cornstarch Mould, Cocoanut, 200. 

Fruit, 200. 

Pineapple, 200. 

Pudding, 200. 
Cornucopias, 264. 
Cottage Pudding, 224. 

Steamed, 224. 
Cowslips, 100. 
Crab Apple Jelly, 312. 
Crab Apples, Preserved, 308. 
Crab, Bisque, 64. 

Canapes, 34. 

Chowder, 53. 

Gumbo Soup, 61. 
Crabs, Fried Soft-shelled, 75. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

in Red Pepper, 74. 
Cracker Gruel, 337. 
Crackers, Browned, 37. 

Cheese, 37. 
Cranberry Jelly, 313. 

Pie, 237, 238. 

Tarts, 243. 
Cream, Almond Bavarian, 208. 

Banana Bavarian, 207. 

Bavarian, 206. 

Bavarian Ribbon, 208. 

Brandy Sauce, 229. 



Cream, continued. 

Candy, 301. 

Caramel Bavarian, 208. 

Chocolate, 195. 

Chocolate Bavarian, 207. 

Cocoa, 194. 

Cocoa Almond, 194. 

Cocoa Coooanut, 285. 

Cocoa Tutti-frutti, 194. 

Coffee Bavarian, 206. 

Filling, 276. 

Frangipane, 242. 

Ginger Bavarian, 207. 

Italian, 207. 

Maple Italian, 208. 

Peach or Apricot, 207. 

Pie, 252. 

Pineapple Bavarian, 206. 

Puffs, 259. 

Raspberry Bavarian, 206. 

Rice Bavarian, 209. 

Sauce, 229. 

Sherry Sauce, 229. 

Strawberry Bavarian, 206. 

Toast, 339. 
Creamy Sauce, 228. 
Cr^me Frite, 140. 
Creoles, 261. 
Crescents, 160. 
Crisps, 37. 

k la Russe, 245. 

Lemon, 244. 

Orange, 244. 
Croquettes, Chicken, 134. 

Cream, 227. 

Fish, 134. 

Lobster, 133. 

Meat, Rice, and Tomato, 133. 

Potato, 152. 

Rice, 154. 

Rice and Tomato, 154. 

Sauce for, 134. 

Shad Roe, 133. 

Surprise, 153. 

Sweetbread and Mushrooms, 134. 

Sweet Rice, 154. 

Tomato, 155. 

Veal, 137. 
Croustades, 144. 

Roll, 141. 
CroOtons, 37. 
Crown Roast, 85. 
Crullers, 266. 



INDEX 



355 



Cucumber Ketchup, 322. 
Cucumber, Pickled, 318, 319. 

Pickle, Sweet, 318. 

Sandwiches, 188. 

Soup, 45. 
Cucumbers, 100. 

Bechamel, 148. 

Boiled, 100. 

Fried, 100. 

in Aspic, 136. 

Scalloped, 148. 
Cumquat Fritters, 170. 
Cup, Champagne, 297. 

Cider, 297. 

Claret, 297. 
CuraQoa Filling, 276. 
Currant, and Raspberry Jelly, 313. 

and Raspberry Preserve, 314. 

Cake, 251. 

JeUy, 313. 

Jelly Sauce, 120. 

Pie, 238. 

Punch, 298. 

Sauce, 230. 

Spiced, 317. 

Water, 333. 
Currants, 299. 

Canned, 305. 

Preserved, 309. 
Curry of Game, 141. 
Custard, Arrowroot, 197. 

Banana, 197. 

Caramel, Baked, 198, 199. 

Cheese, 325. 

Chocolate Cream, 193. 

Coffee, 198. 

Fruit, 197. 

Pie, 238. 

Rennet, 341. 

Sauce, 230. 

Sherry, Baked, 198. 

Soft, 197. 

Soft Caramel, 198. 

Strawberry, 197. 

Vanilla, Baked, 198. 
Cutlets, Veal, 83. 

Damson Jelly, 313. 

Dandelions, 97, 100. 

Danish Pudding, 202. 

Date, and Almond Filling, 277. 

Bread, 158. 

Filling, 276. 



Date, continued. 

Pie, 239. 

Pudding, 227. 

Whip, 209. 
Dominoes, 264. 
Doughnuts, 266. 
Dressing, Boiled, 174. 

Boiled Cream, 174. 

Boiled Salad, 174. 

Butter Salad, 173. 

Cream, 174. 

French, 173. 

Horse-radish Cream, 174, 175. 

Mayonnaise, 172, 173. 

Mayonnaise Cream, 173. 
Drops, Molasses, 267. 

Sponge, 260. 
Duchesse Pudding, 213. 
Duck, Roast Tame, 95. 

Wild, 95. 
Dumpling, Apple, 218. 

Blackberry, 223. 

Raspberry, 223. 
Dutch Apple Cake, 163. 

Eclairs, 259. 

Egg, and Lemon, 336. 

and Milk Punch, 335. 

Balls, 38. 

Cordial, 335. 

Muffins, 163. 

Nogg, 335. 

Sandwiches, 189. 
Egg Plant, 101. 

Baked in Shell, ISO. 

Fried, 101. 
Eggs, 112. 

and Tomatoes, Scrambled, 327. 

Baked, 112. 

Bechamel, 327. 

Creamed, 327. 

Fluffed, 113. 

Fried, 114. 

Goldenrod, 116. 

Hard Cooked, 112. 

in Aspic, 136. 

on Toast, Poached, 327. 

Poached, 113. 

Poached k la Frangaise, 113. 

Poached in Tomato, 113. 

Scrambled, 114. 

Soft Cooked, 112. 

Stuffed, 116. 



356 



INDEX 



English Pudding, 228. 
Entire Wheat, Bread, 157. 

Gruel, 336. 

Muffins, 164. 
Entries, Vegetable, 147. 
Essence, Beef, 340. 

Farina Balls, 148. 
Favorite Sandwiches, 189. 
Fig, Cake, 255. 

Filling, 276. 

Frosting, 273. 

Pudding, Steamed, 227. 

Sandwiches, 339. 
Figs, 299. 

Compote of, 212. 

Stewed, 342. 
Filberts, 301. 
Filbert Bread, 158. 
Fillet, of Beef, 77. 

of Beef, Broiled, 78. 

of Beef, Broiled with Oysters, 78. 

of Beef, Sauted, 78. 

of Flounder, Rolled, 135. 

of Halibut, Baked, 67. 

of Sole, Fried, 68. 

of Sweetbread, Baked, 142. 
Fillets, Fish, 68. 

of Fish, Deviled, 68. 
Filling, Caramel, 275. 

Cocoanut, 276. 

Cocoa Nougat, 275. 

Coffee, 276. 

Cream, 276. 

Curagoa, 276. 

Date, 276. 

Date and Almond, 277. 

Fig, 276: 

Fudge, 278. 

Lemon, 277. 

Maple, 277. 

Marshmallow, 277. 

Marshmallow Fudge, 278. 

Mince Pie, 241. 

Nougat, 277. 

Nut and Raisin, 278. 

Nut Fudge, 278. 

Orange, 278. 

Peach, 279. 

Pineapple, 279. 

Rich Chocolate, 274. 

Simple Chocolate, 275. 

Tutti-frutti. Fudge, 278. 



Fingers, Lady, 259. 
Fish, 13, 64. 

Chowder, 52. 

Croquettes, 134. 

Fillets, 64. 

Fillets of. Deviled, 68. 

Forcemeat, 64. 

Garnishings, 64. 

Quenelles, 40. 

Stock, 64. 

Timbales, 130. 
Flame, Apple, 217. 
Flamingo, Apple, 217. 
Flannel Cakes, 168. 
Flaxseed Tea, 333. 
Floating Island, 199. 

Strawberry, 199. 
Flounder, Fillet of. Rolled, 135. 
Flour Ball, 337. 

Gruel, 337. 
Fontage Cups, 133. 

Mock Terrapin in, 131. 
Fondant Frosting, 273. 
Frapp^, Caf6, 292. 

Cocoa, 282. 

Grape, 292. 

Orange, 292. 
French Ice Cream, 283. 
Fritter, Batter, 149, 169. 

Beans, 39. 
Fritters, Apple, 169. 

Banana, 169. 

CauUflower, 170. 

Celery, 170. 

Com, 170. 

Cumquat, 170. 

Orange, 170. 

Parsnip, 170. 

Peach, 170. 

Pear, 170. 

Salsify, 170. 

Shell, 171. 

Tomato, 170. 
Frog's Legs, 143. 

k la Bechamel, 143. 

Allemande, 143. 
Frosting, Boiled, 270. 

Brown Sugar, 274. 

Caramel, 270, 271. 

Chocolate, 269. 

Cocoa, 269. 

Cocoanut, 272. 

Coffee, 271. 



INDEX 



357 



Frosting, continued. 

Confectioners', 270. 

Fig, 273. 

Fondant, 273. ■ 

Fudge, 271. 

Gelatine, 271. 

Maple, 272. 

Marshmallow, 272, 274. 

Marshmallow Nut, 272. 

Mocha, 274. 

Nougat, 273. 

Nut Fudge, 271. 

Orange, 272. 

Ornamental, 273. 

Rich Chocolate, 269. 

Tutti-frutti, 272. 

Wine, 273. 
Fricassee of Oysters and Mushrooms, 

329. 
Fricassee of Veal, 82. 
Froth, Cocoa, 196. 
Fruit, Biscuit, 163. 

Cake, 254. 

Cake, Raised, 254. 

Custard, 197. 

Mousses, 288. 

Punch, 297. 

Salad, Hot, 330. 

Sauce, 231. 

Snowballs, 223. 
Fruits and Nuts, 299. 
Fudge Filling, 278. 

Frosting, 271. 

Nut Frosting, 271. 

Game, 95. 

Curry of, 141. 

Sahui of, 140. 
Garnishings for Fish, 64. 

for Soup, 38. 
Gateau, Peach, 204. 
Gelatine Frosting, 271. 
Gingerbread, Hard, 266. 

Hot Water, 268. 

New York, 267. 

Sour Milk, 268. 

Superior, 268. 
Ginger Ice Cream, 286. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Snaps, 268. 
Glac6, Souffle, 290. 
Gluten Bread, 158. 
Gold Cake, 251. 



Golden Parfait, 289. 
Gooseberries, Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 308. 
Gooseberry Tarts, 244. 
Goose, Roast Green, 94. 
Graham, Bread, 157. 

Griddle Cakes, 167. 

Muffins, 164. 

Plum Pudding, 226. 
Grape Butter, 312. 

Frapp6, 292. 

JeUy, 314. 

Sauce, 231. 

Water, 333. 
Grape Fruit, 299. 

Marmalade, 315. 
Grapes, 299. 
Green Grape Jam, 316. 
Greens, 100. 

Green Tomatoes, Preserved, 311. 
Green Turtle Soup, 62. 
Griddle Cakes, Bread, 167. 

Graham, 167. 

Hominy, 168. 

Rice, 168. 

Sour Milk, 167. 

Sweet Milk, 168. 
Gruel, Barley, 336. 

Corn Meal, 337. 

Cracker, 337. 

Entire Wheat, 336. 

Flour, 337. 

Oatmeal, 337. 

Rice, 338. 

Haddock, Baked, 67. 
Halibut, Fillet of, Baked, 67. 
Ham, Boiled, 88. 

Broiled, 88. 
Hamburg Steak k la Tartare, 81. 
Ham Canapes, 34. 
Haricot of Ox Tails, 140. 
Hash, Corned Beef, 78. 
Hermits, 261. 
Hominy, and Corn Muffins, 164. 

Boiled, 110. 

Crescents, 148. 

Griddle Cakes, 168. 
Huckleberries, Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 309. 

Ice, Cocoa Nut Cream, 286. 
Plain Water, 290. 



358 



INDEX 



Ice Cream, Banana, 283. 

Brown Bfead, 283. 

Burnt Almond, 286. 

Caramel, 286. 

Chocolate, 282, 283. 

Chocolate Fig, 281. 

Chocolate Junket, 282. 

Chocolate Philadelphia, 282. 

Cocoa, 284. 

Cocoa Macaroon, 285. 

Coffee, 286. 

French, 283. 

Ginger, 286. 

Macaroon, 286. 

Maple, 287. 

Nougat, 287. 

Orange, 287. 

Peach, 287. 

Philadelphia, 283. 

Pineapple, 287. 

Pistachio, 287. 

Plain, 285. 

Plum Pudding, 287. 

Strawberry, 287. 

Wine, 288. 
Indian Pudding, Baked, 225. 

Steamed, 225. 
Indian Rice Pudding, 225. 

with Apples, 225. 
Indian Tapioca Pudding, 225. 
Irish Moss Lemonade, 334. 
Italian Sauce, 234. 

Jam, Blackberry, 316. 

Black Currant, 316. 

Green Grape, 316. 

Raspberry, 316. 

Red and White Currant, 316. 

Ripe Grape, 316. 

Strawberry, 316. 
Jelly, Apple, 312. 

Aspic, 128. 

Barberry, 313. 

Calf's Foot, 341. 

Cherry, 313. 

Crab Apple, 312. 

Cranberry, 313. 

Currant, 313. 

Currant and Raspberry, 313. 

Damson, 313. 

Fruit, Macedoine, 205. 

Grape, 314. 

Grape Fruit, 203. 



Jelly, continued. 

Lemon, 202, 203. 

Orange, 203. 

Prune, 205. 

Quick Aspic, 129. 

Quince, 314. 

Raspberry, 313. 

Roll, 253. 

Russian, 204. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Sauterne, 204. 

Strawberry, 313. 

Wine, 203. 
Jumbles, Chocolate, 262. 
Junket, 211. 

Chocolate, 196. 

Ketchup, Cucumber, 322. 

Mushroom, 322. 

Tomato, 321, 322. 
Kidney Bean Soup, 43. 
Kidney Omelet, 115. 
Kidneys, en Brochette, 139. 

with Oysters, 139. 
Kirsch Sauce, 232. 
Kohl Slaw, 99. 
Koumiss, 335. 

Lady Fingers, 259. 

Lalla Rookh, 292. 

Lamb Chops, Breaded, 85. 

Stuffed, 86. 

with Soubise Sauce, 86. 
Lamb or Mutton Chops, 86. 
Lamb, Rissoles, 145. 

Terrapin, 328. 
Layer Cake, 251. 
Lemonade, 297, 333. 

Irish Moss, 334. 
Lemon Crisps, 244. 

Filling, 277. 

Pie, 239. 

Queens, 258. 

Sauce, 232. 

Sherbet, 291. 

Tarts, 244. 

Water Ice, 291. 

Whey, 336. 
Lentil, Cakes, Sauted, 101. 

Soup, 51. 
Lentils, 101. 

Mashed, 101. 
Lettuce, Boiled, 100. 



INDEX 



369 



Lettuce Sandwiches, 190. 

Lima Beans, 98. 

Liver, Calf's, Fried, 138. 

Loaf, 144. 
Lobster, t la Newburg, 328. 

Bisque, 54. 

Broiled Live, 75. 

Canapes, 34. 

Chowder, 53. 

Creamed, 74, 327. 

Croquettes, 133. 

Curried, 75. 

Curried in Rice Timbales, 135. 

DevUed, 74. 

How to open a, 73. 

in Aspic^ 136. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

in Red Peppers, 75. 

Mousse, 130. 

Rissoles, 146. 

Salad Sandwiches, 189. 

Scalloped, 74. 

Supreme, 75. 

Timbales, 131. 

with Mushrooms, 328. 

with Pimolas, 328. 
Loin of Veal h la Jardiniere, 83. 

Macaroni, Baked, 102. 

Baked with Tomatoes, 102. 

Boiled, 102. 

Timbales, 149. 

with Sauce, 102. 
Macaroon Ice Cream, 286. 
Macaroons, 266. 

Chocolate, 265. 
Macedoine, Bavarian, 208. 

Fruit Jelly, 205. 

of Orange, 203. 
Mackerel, Broiled, 65. 
Maple, Filling, 277. 

Frosting, 272. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Parfait, 289. 

Sauce, 232. 

Sugar Candy, 302. 
Maraschino Sauce, 233. 
Marble Cake, 253. 
Marmalade, Apple, 315. 

Apricot, 315. 

Grape Fruit, 315. 

Orange, 315. 

Peach, 316. 



Marmalade, continued. 

Plum, 315. 

Prune; 316. 

Quince, 316. 
Marrow, Balls, 38. 

Bones with Tenderloin Steak, 139. 
Marshmallow Cake, 255. 

FiUing, 277. 

Frosting, 272, 274. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Nut Frosting, 272. 
Meat, Rice, and Tomato Croquettes, 

133. 
Melons, 300. 

Meringue, Chocolate Raspberry, 196. 
Meringues, 267. 

Mushroom, 265. 
Milk, Albuminized, 336. 

and Water Bread, 157. 

Bread, 156. 

Punch, 298, 334. 

Toast, 338. 
Mince Pie, 239. 

Filling, 241. 
Mint Julep, 298. 
Mocha, Cake, 255. 

Frosting, 274. 
Mock Turtle Soup, 62. 
Molasses Candy, 302. 

Drops, 267. 
Mould, Chocolate, 192. 
Mousse, Chicken, 129. 

Chocolate, 284, 288. , 

Coffee, 288. 

Lobster, 130. 

Strawberry, 288. 
Mousses,, Fruit, 288. 
Muffins, Berry, 163. 

Corn, 164. 

Egg, 163. 

Entire Wheat, 164. 

Fried Rye, 165. 

Graham, 164. 

Hominy and Corn, 164. 

Oat, 166. 

Oatmeal, 161. 

Rye, 164. 

Raised, 161. '' 

MulUgatawny Soup, 61. 
Mush, Com Meal, 111. 
Mushroom Ketchup, 322. 

Meringues, 265. 

Mixture, S6. 



360 



INDEX 



Mushroom, continued. 

Omelet, 115. 

Pot Pourri, 152. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Soup, 60. 
Mushrooms, Baked, 151. 

Broiled, 150. 

Deviled, 151. 

Scalloped, 151. 

with Oysters, 151. 

with Tomatoes, 151. 
Mustard Pickle, 320. 
Mutton, 14. 

Boiled, 84. 

Braised, 85. 

Broth, 340. 

Ragoftt of, 85. 

Roast, 84. 

Saddle of, Roast, 85. 

Nasturtium Sandwiches, 190. 
Nesselrode Pudding, 290. 
Nests, Apple, 219. 
New England Chowder, 52. 
New York Gingerbread, 267. 
Noodle Balls, 39. 
Noodles, 39. 
Nougat Filling, 277. 

Frosting, 273. 

Ice Cream, 287. 
Nut and Olive Canapes, 35. 
Nut and Raisin Filling, 278. 
Nut.Cakes, Chocolate, 251. 
Nut Cake, 252. 

Cookies, 260. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Wafers, 262. 

Oatmeal, Caudle, 338. 

Gruel, 337. 

Muffins, 161. 

Old-fashioned, 109. 

Wafers, 342. 

Water, 334. 
Oat Muffins, 166. 
Oats, Rolled, 109. 
Okra, 101. 

Scalloped, 101. 

Stewed, 101. 
Omelet, 114. 

Bacon, 115. 

Cheese, 115, 325. 

Creamed Salt Fish, 115. 



Omelet, continued. 

Creamy, 115. 

Foamy, 115. 

French, 116. 

German, 117. 

Kidney, 115. 

Mushroom, 115. 

Spanish, 117. 
Onion Soup, 46. 
Onions, 97, 101. 

Baked, 101. 

in White Sauce, 101. 

Scalloped, 101. 

Stuffed, 101. 
Orangeade, 297. 
Orange, Cake, 252. 

Chocolate Sauce, 235. 

Crisps, 244. 

Egg Cordial, 335. 

Filling, 278. 

Frapp^, 292. 

Fritters, 170. 

Frosting, 272. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Marmalade, 315. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Sauce, 124, 233. 

Shortcake, 166. 

Souffle, 221. 

Trifle, 204. 

Water Ice, 291. 
Oranges, 300. 

on a Bed of Rice, 220. 
Ox-tail Soup, 63. 
Ox Tails, Haricot of, 140. 
Oyster, Bisque, 55. 

Bisque k la Reine, 55. 

Cocktail, 36. 

Crabs, 143. 

Crabs with Poached Eggs, 143. 

Gumbo Soup, 61. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Stew, 70. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Oyster Plant, see Salsify, 101. a 
Oysters, and Celery, Creamed m 
Fontage Cups, 132. 

and Mushrooms, Fricassee of, 329. 

Broiled, 71. 

Celeried, 329. 

Fried, 71. 

in Aspic, 136. 



INDEX 



361 



Oysters, continued. 
on the Half Shell, 36. 
Panned, 71. 
Sauted, 71, 328. 
Scalloped, 69. 
Spindled, 70. 
Supreme, 71. 

Parfait, Caf6, 289. 

Golden, 289. 

Maple, 289. 

Silver, 288. 
Parker House Rolls, 159. 
Parsnip Fritters, 170. 
Parsnips, 97, 101. 

Sauted, 101. 
Partridge in Aspic, 136. 
Paste, Chopped, 236. 

Plain, 236. 

Puff, 237, 242. 
Pastry, 235. 

Pat6 de Foie Gras, Mock, 144. 
Pat6 Shells, 241. 
Peach, Batter, 220. 

Butter, 311. 

Canap6, 330. 

Duff, 223. 

FilUng, 279. 

Fritters, 170. 

Gateau, 204. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Marmalade, 316. 

Pie, 239. 

Shortcake, 166. 

Tarts, 244. 
Peaches, 300. 

Brandied, 311. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 309. 

Spiced, 317. 
Peanut, Brittle, 303. 

Soup, 60. 
Peanuts, 301. 
Pear, Chipped, 314. 

Fritters, 170. 
pears, 300. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Pea Soup, 46. 
Peas, 97, 104. 

Canned, 307. 
Pecans, 301. 
Peppers, Stuffed, 102, 153. 



Pheasant in Aspic, 136. 
Philadelphia Ice Cream, 283. 
Piccalilli, 320. 
Pickle, Mustard, 320. 

Sweet Cucumber, 318. 

Sweet Tomato, 317. 
Pie, Apple, 237. 

Blackberry, 237. 

Blueberry, 237. 

Chicken, Old-fashioned English, 92. 

Chocolate Cream, 240. 

Citron, 238. 

Cocoanut, 238. 

Cranberry, 237, 238. 

Cream, 252. 

Currant, 238. 

Custard, 238. 

Date, 239. 

Lemon, 239. 

Mince, 239. 

Peach, 239. 

Plum, 239. 

Prune, 239. 

Pumpkin, 240. 

Rhubarb, 240. 

Squash, 240. 
Pig, Roast Little, 87. 
Pig's Feet, Broiled, 138. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 154. 
Pineapple, Canap^, 331. 

Cornstarch Mould, 200. 

FilUng, 279. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Pudding, 212. 

Shortcake, 167. 

Tarts, 244. 

Water Ice, 291. 
Pineapples, 300. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Pistachio Ice Cream, 287. 
Plum, Marmalade, 315. 

Pie, 239. 

Pudding, Christmas, 226. 

Pudding Ice Cream, 287. 
Plums, 300. 

Brandied, 311. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 
Popovers, 165. 
Pork, 15. 

Chops, Baked, 88. 

Chops, Broiled, 88. 



362 



INDEX 



Pork, continued. ' 

Chops, Sauted, 88. 

Roast, 87. 
Potato, h la Maitre d'H6tel, 107. 

Balls, 105. 

Balls, French, 107. 

Chips, 106. 

Chowder, 51. 

Croquettes, 152. 

Hashed Brown, 106. 

Puff, 106. 

Soup, 48. 

Stuffing, 94. 
Potatoes, Baked, 107. 

Boiled, 104. 

Browned Sweet, 107. 

Creamed, 105. 

Franconia, 107. 

French Fried, 106. 

Italian, 107. 

Lyonnaise, 105. 

Mashed, 104. 

Scalloped, 105. 

Southern Sweet, 97, 108. 

Stewed, 105. 

Stuffed, 106. 
Pot Roast, 80. 
Poultry, 15, 89. 
Pound Cake, 253. 

Preserve, Currant and Raspberry, 
314. 

Tutti-frutti, 312. 
Prune, Marmalade, 316. 

Pie, 239. 

Souffle, 210. 
Prunes, Stewed, 342. 
Pudding, Apple Batter, 220. 

Apple Indian, 220. 

Apple Rice, 211. 

Baked Indian, 225. 

Bread, 222. 

Bread Queen, 222. 

Buttered Bread, 222. 

Caramel Rice, 223. 

Chocolate and Rice, 215. 

Chocolate Bread, 213. 

Chocolate Nut, 214. 

Chocolate Raisin, 214. 

Christmas Plum, 226. 

Cocoa Fruit, 215. 

Cocoanut, 222. 

College, 220. 

•Cornstarch, 200. 



Pudding, continued. 

Cottage, 224. 

Cracker Queen, 222. 

Danish, 202. 

Date, 227. 

Diplomatic, 209. 

Duchesse, 213. 

English, 228. 

Fruit Cornstarch, 200. 

Graham Plimi, 226. 

Imperial Chocolate, 211. 

Indian Rice, 225. 

Indian Steamed, 225. 

Indian Tapioca, 225. 

Nesselrode, 290. 

Pineapple, 212. 

Rice, 226. 

Roley Foley, 227. 

Roman, 212. 

Snow, 212. 

Sponge Cocoanut, 202. 

Steamed Blueberry, 222. 

Steamed Chocolate, 216. 

Steamed Cottage, 224. 

Steamed Fig, 227. 

Tapioca, 201. 

Yorkshire, 79. 
Puffs, Cream, 259. 
Pumpkin Pie, 240. 
Punch, Currant, 238. 

Egg and Milk, 335. 

Fruit, 297. 

Milk, 298, 334. 
Pur^e, Black Bean, 50. 

Quail in Aspic, 136. 

Queen Pudding, Bread, 222. 

Cracker, 222. 
Queens, Lemon, 258. 
Quenelles, Chicken, 40. 

Fish, 40. 
Quince, Jelly, 314. 

Marmalade, 316. 
Quinces, 300. 

and Apples, Canned, 306. 

Canned, 306. 

Preserved, 310. 

RagoAt of Mutton, 85. 

Rarebit, Cheese and Tomato, 326. 

Welsh, 325. 
Raspberries, Canned, 307. 

Preserved, 314. 



INDEX 



363 



Raspberry, Bombe GIac£, 291. 

Dumpling, 223. 

Jam, 316. 

JeUy, 313. 

Shortcake, 167. 
Red and White Currant Jam, 316. 
Rennet Custard, 341. 
Rhubarb Pie, 240. 
Rice, and Corn MuflSus, 165. 

and Tomato Croquettes, 154. 

Balls, 38. 

Boiled, 102, 110. 

Croquettes, 154. 

Croquettes, Sweet, 154. 

Griddle Cakes, 168. 

Gruel, 338. 

or Macaroni Stuffing for Peppers, 
153. 

Pudding, 226. 

Pudding, Steamed, 223. 

Soup, 46. 

Steamed, 110. 

Timbale Cases, 135. 
Rissoles, Cheese, 145. 

Chicken, 144. 

Lamb, 145. 

Lobster, 146. 

Mushroom, 145. 

Oyster, 145. 

Sardine, 145. 

Sweetbread, 145. 

Veal, 145. 
Roley Foley Pudding, 227. 
Roll, Jelly, 253. 

Sultana, 291. 
Rolled Oats, 109. 
Rolls, Parker House, 159. 

Swedish, 160. 
Roman Pudding, 212. 
Rum Sauce, 233. 
Rusk, 161. 
Rye Bread, 157. 

Muffins, 164. 

Muffins, Fried, 165. 

Sabayon Sauce, 233. 
Salad, Apple, 185. 

Aspic Jelly, 175. 

Beet, 175. 

Butter Bean, 175. 

Cabbage, 176. 

Cauliflower, 176. 

Celery, 176. 



Salad, continued. 

Cheese, 176, 177. 

Cherry, 176. 

Chestnut, 177. 

Chicken, 177, 178. 

Chicory, 178. 

Chiffonade, 178. 

Crab, 179. 

Cucumber, 178. 

Egg, 179. 

Endive, 179. 

Escarole, 179. 

French Fruit, 183. 

Grape Fruit, 185. 

Hot Fruit, 330. 

Lettuce, 179, 180. 

Lima Bean, 175. 

Lobster, 180. 

Macedoine, 180. 

Martin, 184. 

Onion, 181. 

Orange, 186. 

Pineapple, 186. 

Potato, 181. 

Rice and Vegetable, 181. 

Sahnon, 182. 

Sardine, 181. 

Scallop, 182. 

Shad Roe, 182. 

Shrimp, 182. 

Spinach, 182. , 

Stuffed Tomato, 183. 

Sweetbread, 183. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber, 183. 

Sweet Fruit, 186. 

Sweet Grape Fruit, 186. 

Tomato and Nut, 183. 

Vegetable, 184. 

Vegetable Oyster or Salsify, 185. 

Waldorf, 185. 
Sally Lunn, 163. 
Salmi of Game, 140. 
Salmon Canapes, 35. 

Creamed in Rice Timbalea, 135. 

Steamed, 65. 
Salsify, 97, 101. 

Fried, 101. 

Fritters, 101. 

SautSd, 101. 
Sand Cookies, 260. 
Sandwich, Anchovy, 187. 

Bread and Butter, 339. 

Raw Beef, 339. 



364 



INDEX 



Sandwiches, 187. 

Caviare, 187. 

Celery, 187. 

Cheese, 188. 

Chicken, 188. 

Club, 189. 

Cucumber, 188. 

Egg, 189. 

Favorite, 189. 

Fig, 190. 

Ginger, 190. 

Jelly, 190. 

Lettuce, 190. 

Lobster Salad, 189. 

Nasturtium, 190. 

Orange, 190. 

Oyster, 190. 

Sardines, 190. 

Shrimp, 190. 

Striped Bread, 190. 

Tomato and Horse-radish, 189. 

Water Cress, 190. 
Sardine Canapfe, 35. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Sandwiches, 190. 
Sauce, AUemande, 118. 

Apple, 228. 

Apricot, 228. 

Banana, 228. 

Bechamel, 118. 

B^arnaise, 119. 

Black Butter, 119. 

Bread, 119. 

Brown, 118. 

Browned Bread, 119. 

Brown Sugar, 234. 

Caper, 120. 

Caramel, 229. 

Celery, 120. 

Champagne, 120. 

Cherry, 229. 

Chestnut, 120. 

Chili, 321. 

Chocolate, 234. 

Chocolate Cream, 235. 

Claret, 230. 

Coffee, 230. 

Cream, 229. 

Cream Brandy, 229. 

Cream Sherry, 229. 

Creamy, 228. 

Cucumber, 121. 

Currant, 230. 



Sauce, continued. 
Currant Jelly, 120. 
Curry, 120. 
Custard, 230. 
Egg, 121. 
Espagnole, 121. 
Foamy, 230, 231. 
for Croquettes, 134. 
Fruit, 231. 
Grape, 231. 
Hard, 232. 
Hollandaise, 121. 
Horse-radish, 122. 
Horse-radish, Hollandaise, 122. 
Italian, 234. 
Kirsch, 232. 
Lemon, 232. 
Lobster, 122. 
Lobster Hollandaise, 122. 
Madeira, 122. 
Maitre d'Hotel, 122. 
Maple, 232. 
Maraschino, 233. 
Milanaise, 123. 
Mint, 123. 
Mushroom, 123. 
Mustard, 123. 
OUve, 124. 
Onion, 124. 
Orange, 124, 233. 
Orange Chocolate, 235. 
Orange Hollandaise, 124. 
Oyster, 124. 
Pepper, 125. 
Piquante, 125. 
Port, 125. 
Poulette, 125. 
Ravigote, 125. 
Rum, 233. 
Sabayon, 233. 
Shrimp, 126. 
Sorrel, 126. 
Soubise, 86, 126. 
Stirling, 232. 
Strawberry, 234. 
Supreme, 126. 
Tartare, 126. 
Tomato, 126. 
Tomato Bearnaise, 119. 
Tomato Cream, 127. 
Trianon, 127. 
Vanilla, 234. 
Velout6, 127. 



INDEX 



365 



Savuie, continued. 

White, 118. 

Yellow Egg, 121. 
Sausages, 89. 
Scallops, Fried, 72. 

Fried in Batter, 73. 

Scalloped, 73. 
Shad, Planked, 69. 

Roe Croquettes, 133. 
Shell Fritters, 171. 
Shells, Pat4, 241. 
Sherbet, Lemon, 291. 
Sherry Custard, Baked, 198. 
Shortcake, 166. 

Blackberry, 167. 

Orange, 166. 

Peach, 166. 

Pineapple, 167. 

Raspberry, 167. 

Strawberry, 167. 
Shrimp, Bisque Bretonne, 55. 

Chowder, S3. 

Cocktail, 36. 

in Aspic, 136. 

in Fontage Cups, Creamed, 132. 

Sandwiches, 190. 

Shrimps and Crabs, 74. 

with Tomatoes, 329. 
Silver, Cake, 252. 

Parfait, 288. 
Smelts, Fried, 65. 
Snowballs, Fruit, 223. 
Snow Pudding, 212. 

Puffs, 224. 
Sole, FUlets Of, Fried, 68. 
Sorrel Soup, 47. 
Souffle, Apple, 218. 

Baked Chocolate, 213. 

Chicken, 129. 

Frozen Chocolate, 285. 

Glac«, 290. 

Orange, 221. 

Vanilla, 221. 
Soup, Accessories, 37. 

Artichoke, 42. 

Asparagus, 42. 

Baked Bean, 43. 

Bean, 42. 

Black Bean Pur^e, 50. 

Cabbage, 43. 

Carrot, 44. 

Cauliflower, 44. 

Celery, 44. 



Soup, continued. 

Chestnut, 45. 

Chicken Gumbo, 60. 

Corn, 45. 

Crab Gumbo, 61. 

Cream, 40. 

Cucumber, 45. 

Garnishings, 38. 

Green Turtle, 62. 

Kidney Bean, 43. 

Lentil, 51. 

Mock Turtle, 62. 

Mulligatawny, 61. 

Mushroom, 60. 

Onion, 46. 

Oyster Gumbo, 61. 

Pea, 46. 

Peanut, 60. 

Potato, 48. 

Rice, 46. 

Sorrel, 47. 

Spinach, 47. 

Spht Pea, 50. 

Squash, 47. 

St. Germain, 56. 

Stock, 41. 

Terrapin, 62. 

Tomato, 48. 

Tomato Bisque, 48. 

Tomato Cream, 48. 

Tomato with Stock, 49. 

Turnip, 49. 

Vegetable, 50. 

Water Cress, 49. 

White, 60. 
Spice Cake, 252. 
Spinach, 97, 100. 

Soup, 47. 
Sponge, Apple, 216. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 202. 

Drops, 260. 
Sponge Cake, Cold Water, 256. 

Cream, 257. 

Hot water, 256. 

Plain, 255. 

True, 257. 
Sprouts, Young Cabbage, 99. 
Squash, Baked, 103. 

Bread, 162. 

Pie, 240. 

Soup, 47. 

Summer, 102. 

Winter, 103. 



366 



INDEX 



Squares, Banbury, 243. 
Steak, Beet, Broiled, 81. 

Hamburg, k la Tartare, 81. 

Smothered in Onions, 81. 

Venison, 96. 
Stew, Venison, 330. 
St. Germain Soup, 56. 
Sticks, Almond, 243. 

Bread, 160. 
Sterling Sauce, 232. 
Stock, Brown, 56. 

Chicken, 60. 

Fish, 64. 

White Soup, 59. 
Strawberries, 300. 

Canned, 307. 

Preserved, 308. 
Strawberry, Bombe Glac#, 291. 

Custard, 197. 

Ice Cream, 287. 

Jam, 316. 

Jelly, 313. 

Mousse, 288. 

Sauce, 234. 

Shortcake, 234. 

Whip, 210, 342. 
Straws, Cheese, 243. 
Stuffing, 95. 

Chestnut, 94. 

for Peppers, Chicken, 93. 

for Peppers, Rice or Macaroni, 
153. 

for Peppers, Tomato, 153. 

Oyster, 94. 

Potato, 94. 
Succotash', 100. 
Sugar Cookies, 260. 
Sugar Sauce, Brown, 234. 

Syrup, 334. 
Sultana Roll, 291. 
Summer Squash, 102. 
Sunshine Cake, 258. 
Surprise Croquettes, 153. 
Swedish Meringues, Chocolate, 263. 

Rolls, 160. 
Sweetbread, and Chicken in Fontage 
Cups, 132. 

and Mushroom Croquettes, 134. 

and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups, 
131. 

Rissoles, 145. 
Sweetbreads, Baked, 142. 

Braised, 142. 



Sweetbreads, continued. 

Fillet of. Baked, 142. 

with Bacon, 329. 
Swiss Chard, 100. 

Consomm6, 58. 
Syllabub, 205. 

Strawberry, 205. 
Syrup, Sugar, 334. 

Taffy, Butter, 301. 
Tamarind Water, 334. 
Tapioca Cream, 201. 

Pudding, 201. 
Tartlets, Frangipane, 242. 
Tarts, 242. 

Apple, 243. 

Banbury, 243. 

Chantilly, 244. 

Cranberry, 243. 

Gooseberry, 244. 

Lemon, 244. 

Peach, 244. 

Pineapple, 244. 
Tea, 295. 

Beef, 340. 

Beef Frozen, 340. 

Flaxseed, 333. 

Iced, 295. 

Punch, 295. 

Russian, 295. 
Terrapin, Lamb, 328. 

Mock in Fontage Cups, 131. 

Soup, 62. 
Thimble Berries, Preserved, 308. 
Timbale Cases, 133. 

Rice, 135. 
Timbales, Chicken, 129. 

Fish, 130. 

Green Pea, 150. 

Imperial, 130. 

Lobster, 131. 

Macaroni, 149. 
Toast, Brown Bread, 339. 

Buttered, 338. 

Cream, 339. 

Dry, 338. 

Milk, 338. 

Water, 338. 
Tomato, and Cucumber Canapes, 35. 

and Horse-radish Sandwiches, 189. 

Bisque Soup, 48. 

Croquettes, 155. 

Forcemeat, 128. 



INDEX 



367 



Ttonato, continued. 

Flitters, 170. 

Ketchup, 321, 322. 

Soup, 48. 

Stuffing for Peppers, 153. 

with Stock Soup, 49. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 103. 

Buttered, 330. 

Canned, 307. 

Fried, 103. 

in Aspic, 136. 

Pickled, 319. 

Preserved Ripe, 311. 

Sauted, 103. 

Scalloped, 103. 

Stuffed, 103. 
Tongue, Boiled, 138. 

Canapes, 35. 

in Aspic, 136. 
Tortoni Biscuit, 290. 
Trifle, Chocolate, 193. 
Tripe, Broiled Honeycomb, 141. 

in Batter, 142. 

Lyonnaise, 141. 

Rago<it, 141. 
Trout, Sauted, 68. 
Turkey, Boned, 95. 

English, Roast, 95. 

Roast, 95. 
Turkish Pilaf, 154. 
Turnip Soup, 49. 
Turnips, 97. 

in White Sauce, 104. 
Tutti-frutti, Frosting, 272. 

Fudge Filling, 278. 

Preserve, 312. 

Vanilla, Custard, Baked, 198. 

Sauce, 234. 

Souffle, 221. 
Veal, 14. 

Braised, 84. 

Chops, 84. 

Croquettes, 137. 

Cutlets, 83. 

Fricassee, 82. 

Loaf, 137. 

Loin of, h la Jardiniere, 83. 

Rissoles, 145. 

Roast, 82. 

Roll, 138. 

Scalloped, 137. 

Stuffed, Roast, 82. 



Vegetable, ConsommS, 57. 

Cubes, 39. 

Entries, 147. 

Soup, SO. 
Venison Chops, 96. 

Roast, 96. 

Steak, 96. 

Stew, 330. 

with Currant Jelly, 330. 
Vol-au-vent, 241, 242. 

Wafers, 262. 

Chocolate, 261. 

Chocolate Walnut, 262. 

Nut, 262. 

Oatmeal, 342. 
Waffles, 169. 
Walnut Bread, 158. 

Chocolate Cake, 250. 
Walnuts, 301. 

Pickled, 321. 
Water, Apple, 332. 

Barley, 332. 

Bread, 157. 

Cinnamon, 333. 

Currant, 333. 

Distilled, 333. 

Grape, 333. 

Oatmeal, 334. 

Tamarind, 334. 

Toast, 334. 
Water Ice, Lemon, 291. 

Orange, 291. 

Pineapple, 291. 

Plain, 290. 
Water Cress, Sandwiches, 190. 

Soup, 49. 
Watermelon, 300. 

Sweet Pickled, 318. 
Welsh Rarebit, 325. 
Wheat, Cracked, 110. 
Whey, Lemon, 336. 

Wine, 336. 
Whip, Strawberry, 210, 342. 
White Bait, Fried, 69. 
Wine Frosting, 273. 

Ice Cream, 288. 

Whey, 336. 
Winter Squash, 103. 

Yeast, 156. 
Yorkshire Pudding 79. 

Zweibaoh, 162. 



COCOA 

Is made from the choicest cocoa beans — the high- 
est priced — ground very fine, with a part of the 
cocoa butter pressed out to malce it more digestible. 
Every atom of it is cocoa. It contains not one par- 
ticle of adulterant, substitute, coloring matter, or 
chemical. 

Lowney's Cocoa has a perfect natural flavor. 



COCOA SHOULD BE BOILED FROM THREE TO FIVE MINUTES, 
BUT THE MILK SHOULD NOT BE BOILED. 





• k\ I If K I 

CHOCOLATE 



Lowney's Milk Chocolate is a delicious con- 
fection and a most nourishing food. It is 
made of pure chocolate, the finest cream 
from our own herd of blooded Jersey cows, 
and pure vanilla, sweetened with the best 
granulated sugar, powdered in our own 
factory. 



IT IS GOOD FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES, PICNICS, 
AND AFTER MEALS 




The Reason this chocolate has a more re- 
fined flavor than others, is owing to the 
quality of the cocoa beans and the costly 
vanilla beans used. Price is a secondary 
consideration in buying the materials for 
this eating chocolate. The main thing is 
to make it perfect. Each of the materials 
is used as Mother Nature grew them. There 
is no "treatment" nor adulteration of any 
kind whatever. 



THAT IS WHY THE LOWNEY PRODUCTS 
ARE SO DIGESTIBLE 




NAME ON EVERY PIECE" 



Chocolate Bonbons 

Are known and sold almost everywhere. The rea- 
son they have the largest sales in the world is that 
they are superfine goods at reasonable prices. 
They are made of IVIother Nature's own fruits and 
saps and nuts— pnre. 

Owing to their purity you can eat them freely 
and still be happy. They are safe for children. 

The dinner table is not complete without a dish 
of bonbons to decorate it, and to enjoy at dessert. 

LOWNEY'S BONBONS are uniform, delicious, pure 




Lowney's *' Alu'a.ys Rea-dy " Sweet Chocola.te 
Powder has a rich chocolate flavor — espe- 
cially when boiled five minutes — for drink- 
ing, and besides makes the simplest and 
best icing for cake, by simply pouring hot 
water over it. It is delicious as flavoring 
for ice cream. 



IF YOUR DEALER DOES NOT KEEP IT, ASK 
HIM TO GET IT FOR YOU 





- 




KNOWTFDGE OF FOOD 




is the foundation of housekeeping 




Good food means heahh 




Variety in food induces appetite and 




good digeiition 




Pure food should be insisted on. It 




goes fitrther, nourishes more, and saves 




doctors' bills 




You can eat freely of Lowney's Choco- 




late Bonbons, because they are pure 


m 


Lowney's Cocoa is atf cocoa 




The Lowney Products arc all wholesome ^ 




as well as delicious 






A^SmH 



