OAKaTRttT 



CORNER BOOK SHOP 



B 



DEIDIOAXION 



To AT.I. THE HOUSEWIVBS A^^D SWEETHEARTS THROUGHOUT 
THE I.AND WHO ARE AIMING AT GREATER PERFECTION IN 
THE ART OF COOKING, THIS I,ITTI,E BOOK^ IS RESPECTFULLY 
DEDICATED. 



TWENTIETH CENTURY 




A FEAST OF GOOD THINGS 



A CAREFUL COMPILATION OF TRIED 
•AND APPROVED RECIPES. 



The Ladies Aid Society of the Baptist Church 


Piano, III. 




OKKIGKRS 


. 


Mrs. Effie Humiston 


President 


Mrs. Lena Tyler 


Vice-President 


Mrs. Lena Tyler 


Secretary 


Mrs. Martha Turpin 


Treasurer 


IQOT 





Copyrighted 1905 

LILLIAN V. WYRICK 

Angola, Ind. 



COMMANDMENTS THAT RULE HOUSEKEEPERS. 



To manage her household so that the comfort, health 
and well heing of every member shall be insured is a 
difficult task for a woman, and requires much tact, as 
well as domestic ability. 

To accomplish this she must make it her aim: 

To spend wisely as well as to save. 

To choose and buy food which those who eat will enjoy 
and which will be suited to their needs. 

To have this food cooked in such a way that it will 
be agreeable, wholesome and digestible, and to have the 
meals served punctually and in order. 

To see that every part of the home is kept clean al- 
ways, because dirt is degrading and brutalizing and leads 
to disease and crime. 

To see that all those to whom she is responsible are 
suitably and comfortably clad, and to study beauty and 
becomingness in her own dress as well as mere com- 
fort. 

To respect the rights of others and train her children 
and servants to do the same. 

To do everything "by example, by influence, by encour- 
agement, and by sympathy, to make those who dwell 
under the roof good and virtuous. 

To try to make all who come within her reach happy. 

To permit no injustice, wrong or unkindness to be 
done even to the meanest. 

To constitute herself the protector of all who come 
under her roof, even to the dumb animals. 

To seek to extend her influence beyond the four walls 
of her home; to benefit those outside, because the best 
use a woman can make of her home is to share its com- 
forts with those who have none. 



"We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience and live without heart. 

We may live without friends, we may live without books. 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books — what is knowledge but 

grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 

— Owen Meredith. 

utJtr 

"Though we eat little flesh and drink no wine. 
Yet let's be merry; we'll have tea and toast; 
Custards for supper, and an endless host 
Of syllabubs and jellies and mince pie, 
And other such ladylike luxuries." 

— Shelley. 

"Heaven sends us good meat, but the devil sends us 
cooks." _ Garrick. 

(Epigram on Goldsmith's Retaliation.) 

"A good cook is a good grace; 
Such a one is hard to place." 

— Perrin's "After Thoughts." 



MAGIC SUPPER 

BILL OF FARE 



1 A Chilly Reception, 

2 A link from Friendship, 

3 Symptoms of Love, 

4 Splinters of Fun, 

5 Adams Ale, 

6 A Magic Circle, 

7 A piece of the Moon, 

8 Forbidden Fruit, 

9 Preacher's Delight, 
10 A Hot Time, 



1 Frozen Fruit 

2 Weinerwurst 

3 Pickles 

4 Tooth Picks 

5 Water 

6 Doughnuts 

7 Cheese 

8 Apple 

9 Chicken 
10 Coffee 



COOKTKS AND DOUGHNUTS 33 

M'KINLEY DROP CAKE. 

Two eggs, 2 cups ''C" sugar, 1 cup lard and but- 
ter mixed, 1 cup molasses, 1% cups sour milk, 2 tea- 
spoons soda, 3 teaspoons ginger, flour to make a thick 
batter. Drop in pan in small spoonfuls. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup shortening, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
molasses, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1 tablespoon 
soda, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Boil molasses, sugar, 
shortening, ginger and vinegar together; when cold 
add eggs and soda. Add flour enough for a stiff 
dough. 

HERMITS. 

Three eggs, li/^ cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 
cup chopped raisins, 2 tablespoons mixed spices, flour 
to roll; cut like cookies. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup cream, sweet or sour, 2 eggs, 
beaten well, 1 cup sour milk, 1 heaping teaspoon soda^ 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, salt and nutmeg. 

BILL COOKIES. 

Bill Cookies, and rightly they are named, 

If they are gone in a jiffy no one can be blamed, 

Take one cup of sugar, a half cup of lard ; 

Cream these together, add two eggs and beat hard. 

One scant teaspoon of soda, now put in cup. 

Add a mite of hot water, and now 'twill foam up ; 

Sift three cups of flour and place in a bowl, 

Mix smoothly and swiftly, and then neatly roll ; 

If the dough is too soft, a little flour add, 

I '11 assure better cookies your husband ne 'er had. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Two eggs, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted lard, a little 
salt. Mix soft. 



34 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS 



JUMBIiE COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar 3 eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, flour to make dough stiff Enough 
to roll. • Flavor to suit taste. ^ 




m:smoranda 35 



"^^ MEMORANDA 



PASTRY 



"See that your kitchen fire be bright, 
And ycur hands be n«at and skilled: 
For the love of man oft takes its flight 
If his stomach be not well filled." 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Take the tender stalks, strip off the skin and cut in 
small pieces, put them in a stew pan with just a little 
water and stew until soft. If there is too much water 
drain it off, add sugar to taste. Beat 2 eggs very- 
light and stir them into enough rhubard to fill one 
pie plate. Bake in an under crust, use the whites to 
frost the top. The stewed rhubarb makes a nice sauce 
for supper. 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Stew peaches until tender, mash fine and add for 
two pies 1/2 teacup sweet cream, 1 teacup sugar, 
bake with two crusts, or omit cream and add % tea- 
cup boiling water and butter size of hickorynut. 

SOUTHERN TOMATO PIE. 

For one pie peel and slice green tomatoes, add 4 
tablespoons sugar, flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon, 
nutmeg is the best. Bake with two crusts slowly. 
This tastes very much like green apple pie. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart pumpkin, 4 eggs, 1 gill molasses, 4 ounces 
sugar, 2 ounces butter, 2 teaspoons ginger, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, % teaspoon, each, nutmeg and salt. 



38 PASTRY 

ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

One large orange and % of a lemon, 1 cup sugar, 
butter size of walnut, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 4 
eggs, 1/2 cup of milk. Put milk and 1 cup boiling 
water in double boiler, then grate the yellow part of 
orange, squeeze juice into a bowl and lemon juice also, 
then put the orange and lemon in another bowl and 
pour 1 cup boiling water over and let stand until you 
beat the 4 yolks and whites of 1 with the butter, sugar 
and starch, then add the juice and grated rind and 
the water from the orange and lemon, a pinch of salt, 
then pour into the boiling milk and water, stirring all 
the time until well cooked. Bake shell, put in mixture 
and add whites of eggs whipped stiff with a little 
orange flavor and powdered sugar to top off pie. 
Brown in oven. 

CRUMB PIE. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup water, spice to suit taste, 
1 teaspoon soda, for crumbs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup lard 
and butter, 4 cups flour, mix in crumbs and bake in 
four pans. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons corn 
starch, 3 tablespoons sugar ; wet the starch with a lit- 
tle cold milk, beat the yolks and sugar together and 
add to the boiling milk, add a lump butter and flavor. 
Take whites of 2 eggs for frosting. Bake your crust, 
then add this mixture, then frost. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Mix 2 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoon salt, % cup butter, wet with about - 
% cups milk or water; roll on well-floured board to 
fit pan, half inch thick; butter the side and put on 
another cake; bake in hot oven. Have berries well 
washed, mashed and sweetened; separate cake, but- 
ter while hot; spread generously with the berries; 
cover top with berries. Serve at once. 



PASTRY 39 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Three cups white sugar, % cup butter, 4 well-beaten 
eggs, mix well together and bake with lower crust. 
The above will make two pies. 

PLUM COBLER. 

Take 1 quart flour, 4 tablespoons melted lard, I/2 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder; mixed as 
for biscuits, with either sweet milk or water, roll thin 
and line pudding dish or dripping pan, nine by eigh- 
teen inches; mix 3 tablespoons flour and 2 of sugar 
together and sprinkle over the crust; then pour in 3 
pints canned damson plums and sprinkle over them 
1 coffee-cup sugar; wet edges with a little flour and 
water mixed, put on upper crust, press the two edges 
together, make two openings by cutting two incisions 
at right angles an inch in length, and bake in a quick 
oven half an hour. Peaches, apples or any kind of 
fresh or canned fruit can be made in the same way. 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

Mix % teacup white sugar and 1 heaping teaspoon 
flour together, sprinkle over the bottom crust, then 
add the pie-plant cut up fine; sprinkle over this an- 
other half teaspoon sugar and heaping teaspoon flour ; 
bake fully % hour in a slow oven. Or stew the pie- 
plant, sweeten, add grated rind of one lemon and yolks 
of 2 eggs, and bake and frost like lemon pie. 

PINE-APPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 
5 eggs, 1 pine-apple, grated ; beat butter and sugar to 
a cream, add beaten yolks of eggs, then the pine-apple 
and cream, and, lastly, the beaten whites whipped 
lightly. Bake with under crust. 



40 PASTRY 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Heat 1 quart good, rich milk in a tin pan set in 
skillet of hot water, take 5 eggs, 4 large tablespoons 
sugar and a little salt, beat sugar and eggs a little 
and pour in the milk; flavor to suit taste and have 
oven hot when put in to bake. Then cook slowly 
so as not to boil, as that spoils it; test with a knife, 
when done it will not stick to the blade. Without the 
crust this makes a delicious baked custard. Bake in 
a deep tin. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line a pie tin with rich crust; nearly fill with the 
carefully seeded fruit, sweeten to taste, and sprinkle 
evenly with a teaspoon corn starch or a tablespoon 
flour, add 1 tablespoon butter cut into small bits and 
scattered over top; wet edge of crust and press the 
edges closely together, taking care to provide a hole 
in the center for the escape of the air. Pies from 
blackberries, raspberries, etc., are all made the same 
way, regulating the quantity of the sugar by the tart- 
ness of the fruit. 

PEACH PIE. 

Line a pie tin with puff paste, fill with pared 
peaches cut in halves or quarters, well covered with 
sugar; put on upper crust and bake until done, re- 
move from the oven and cover with a meringue made 
of whites of 2 eggs beaten to stiff froth with 2 table- 
spoons powdered sugar; return to oven and brown 
slightly. Canned peaches may be used instead of 
fresh, in the same way. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cup raisins, 2 cups sugar, 1% cups bread 
crumbs, 2 cups water, ^ cup vinegar, butter size of 
hickorynut, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 egg. Cook until 
thick. Makes three pies. 



PASTRY , 41 

LEMON pi:: 

One large lemon, grated, 1 (;up sugar, a small piece 
butter, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons corn 
starch, beat all together and add enough milk to make 
two pies. Bake in a rich crust. When done add the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten with 3 tablespoons sugar; 
return to oven to brown. 

ORANGE SHORT CAKE. 

One quart flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder thoroughly mixed with flour; mix 
(not very stifl:) with cold water, work as little as pos- 
sible, bake, split open and lay sliced oranges between ; 
cut in squares and serve with pudding sauce. Berries 
may be used instead of oranges. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 table- 
spoons water, 1 of flour, beaten with the yolks of 2 
eggs ; bake, frost the top with the beaten whites of the 
eggs and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, and brown in 
oven. 

BUTTERMILK PIE. 

Two cups buttermilk, yolks of 2 eggs, % cup but- 
ter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1% cups sugar, nutmeg. Line 
pie tins with good paste. Pour mixture in crust and 
bake, beat whites of eggs for frosting, spread on top 
and return to oven to brown. 

GOOD PIE CRUST. 

The secret of making good pie crust is to use as lit- 
tle water as possible to get the dough in shape. Put 
a cupful of lard to a quart of flour and a teaspoon of 
salt. This should make four crusts. Work the lard 
into the flour with the fingers until it is thoroughly 
mixed before adding water, then add only a little and 
press the dough together, turn out on a well-floured 
board and roll only one way. 



42 PASTRY 

RAISIN PIE. 

Two cups seeded raisins, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 
4 tablespoons vinegar, I/2 cup butter, 6 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon, cloves, spice and nutmeg. 
This will make three pies. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One pint milk, 1 cocoanut, teacup sugar, 3 eggs, 
grate nut, mix with yolks and sugar, stir in milk, 
filling the pan even full and bake. Beat whites of 
eggs to a froth, add 3 tablespoons pulverized sugar, 
pour over pie and bake a light brown. If prepared 
cocoanut is used 1 heaping cup is required. 

LEMON PIE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, 2 lemons grated, 
yolks of 4 eggs, % cup water, 2 tablespoons flour. 
Line two pie tins with rich paste, fill and bake. Make 
a meringue of the 4 whites of eggs, using 1 tablespoon 
of sugar to each egg. Return to oven and brown 
lightly. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One pound seeded raisins, put in a pan and cover 
with water, boil until soft, then add 1 cup sugar, a 
little salt, butter the size of walnut, 2 tablespoons 
flour dissolved in cold water, 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
Filling can be put in crust hot or cold. Will make 
two large pies or three small ones. 

CHERRY WHANG. 

Line pie tin with rich crust, fill it with cherries, 
1 cup sugar, take 1 cup sweet cream and stir in 1 
tablespoon flour, pour this over cherries and bake. 

Frosting. Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
add 2 tablespoons sugar. Spread on pies ; set in oven ; 
brown lightly. 



PASTRY 43 

LEMON PIE. 

One tablespoon com starch wet in water, pour in 

1 teacup boiling water on stove, cream 1 tablespoon 

butter and 1 teacup sugar together, and pour on hot 

corn starch, let cool, add 1 lemon, grated, 1 egg. Bake 

crust. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon corn 
starch, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup boiling water, cook until 
it is well thickened, then pour in crust that has been 
prepared, beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add 
3 tablespoons sugar and a little lemon extract, put 
on pie, then brown a little in oven. 

MINCE PIE. 

Four pounds lean beef, 8 pounds tart apples, 1 
pound suet, 3 pounds seeded raisins, 2 pounds cur- 
rants, % pound citron, 1 pound brown sugar, 1 
quart baking molasses, 2 quarts fruit juice, 1 pint 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon each of salt, pepper, mace, all- 
spice and cloves, 4 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 nutmegs, 
grated. This will make three gallons. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

One pint milk and a square of chocolate heated, 
add % cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon van- 
illa, thickened with 1 large tablespoon corn starch. 
Have the crust baked and fill with the above filling. 
Beat whites to a stiff froth, brown in oven. This is 
delicious. 

SHOO FLY PIE. 

Line a pie tin with crust, put 3 tablespoons syrup 
in a cup, % teaspoon soda and pour 2 tablespoons 
boiling water over this, stir well and put in crust; 
have ready 1 heaping cup flour, % cup brown sugar, 
butter size of egg, all rubbed well together with the 
hands, then sprinkle over the molasses, but don't stir 
it. Bake like any ordinary pie. 



44 PASTRY 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two heaping teaspoons pumpkin, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 pint milk, % teaspoon cinnamon, pinch salt, 
3 eggs. This is for one pie. If more are made, al- 
low 1 egg for each additional pie. 

BANANA PIE. 

Make a banana pie with a lower crust only; bake 
the crust first, then fill it with sliced bananas and 
powdered sugar ; the fruit will soften sufficiently in a 
few moments. Cover the top with whipped cream and 
eat at once. 

ELDERBERRY PIE. 

Two cups berries, % cup sugar, 1 tablespoon vine- 
gar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, pinch of 
salt. Place between two crusts. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two heaping teaspoons cooked pumpkin, 1 egg, 

1 spoon flour, 2 spoons sugar, 1 pint sweet milk and 
salt. 

VINEGAR MINCE PIE. 

One cup vinegar, 2 cups water, 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup molasses, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 cups bread 
crumbs, % cup butter, 2 eggs, spice to taste. 

MOCK CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup sugar, 
(slack), 2 cups water or milk, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon 
lemon, boil till it thickens, pour in crust that is al- 
ready baked. Beat whites, pour over top, put in 
oven, brown lightly. This recipe is for two pies and 
is fine. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cup molasses, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup vinegar, 1 
cup water, 1 cup crackers rolled, 1 egg, 2 cups raisins, 

2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon 
allspice. This makes six pies. 



PASTRY 45 

MINCE MEAT. 

Four pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, % pound 
citron, 4 pounds apples, 2 pounds beef, 2 quarts 
cider, 1 pound suet (or butter in proportion), sugar, 
spices, as cloves, , cinnamon, allspice, etc., to taste. 
If cider cannot be obtained use equal portions of 
vinegar and water with molasses enough to make it 
about as sweet as eider. 

PIE SHELLS. 

Roll pie crust and place on the outside of pie pan 
instead of the inside to bake. 

SHORT CAKE. 

One egg, 2-3 cup sugar, 1% teaspoon baking pow- 
der, % cup butter, 2-3 cup sweet milk and one quart 
flour. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One egg, % cup each of sugar and sweet milk, but- 
ter size of an egg, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup 
flour and bake in layers. 

BANANA PIE. 

Two sliced bananas, 1 cup milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 
1/2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, boil the custard and 
when cool pour into the baked shell on the sliced 
bananas and whip the whites of 2 eggs and put on 
top. Set in the oven till brown. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, juice and grated yellow rind, 2 cups 
sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup corn starch and 1 quart water. 
Mix and cook in double boiler until thick. Bake 
crust first and fill. Spread with beaten whites and a 
little sugar. Return to oven and brown. 

PIE CRUST. 

A teaspoon of baking powder sifted in a quart of 
flour improves pie crust. Roll thin. 



46 

MEMORANDA 



PUDDINGS 



"Your dressing, dancing, gadding, where's the'good in, 
Sweet lady, tell me, can you nnake a pudding?" 

PUDDING. 

For this you can use stale pieces of cake, pour over 
each dish a dip made of 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 cup 
flour rubbed together, a small piece butter, cinnamon 
and lemon juice, thin with hot water. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Make a biscuit dough, 1 pint flour, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, butter size of egg, a little salt, 
and milk enough to moisten to make a stiff batter, 
butter a round mould or cake pan, and put 1 pint 
stoned cherries in bottom and spread batter over top, 
set in steamer and steam one hour. Serve hot with 
cream and sugar. 

PUDDING. ' 

One egg well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk, li^ cups 
chopped apples, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 cup 
bread crumbs. Bake in a shallow dish. 

BIRD NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core without quartering enough tart ap- 
ples to fill pudding pan; make a custard of 1 quart 
milk and joUls of 6 eggs, sweeten, spice and pour 
over apples and bake; when done use whites of eggs 
beaten stiff with 6 tablespoons white sugar; spread 
on the custard, brown lightly and serve either hot 
or cold. If necessary apples can be baked a while 
before custard is added. 



48 PUDDINGS 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Cover 3 tablespoons tapioca with water, let stand 
over night, add 1 quart milk, a small piece butter, a 
little salt and boil, beat the yolks of 3 eggs with a cup 
sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick custard, 
flavor with vanilla; when cold cover with whites of 
eggs beaten. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 cup rai- 
sms, butter size of egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Steam one and 
one-half hours. 

Sauce. One cup sugar, % cup boiling water, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
corn starch, % nutmeg. Boil and stir. 

CROW NEST PUDDING. 

Put 1 pint raspberries in pan, sweeten and sprinkle 
a little flour over top and cover with batter made of 
1 cup sugar, butter size of walnut, 1 egg, Y> cup milk, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, flour- 
make a little stiffer than cake batter. Bake. 

Filling. Butter size of walnut, browned, milk and 
water, 1 pint, 14 cup sugar, flour enough to thicken, 
flavor with vanilla. Let come to a boil. 

KISS PUDDING. 

One quart milk, 3 tablespoons corn starch, the yolks 
of 4 eggs, 1/2 cup sugar, a little salt ; place part of it 
with salt and sugar on the stove to boil. Dissolve the 
com starch in the rest of the milk and stir into the 
boilmg milk, also add the yolks of the eggs and 
flour. 

Frosting. The beaten whites of the eggs with % 
cup sugar, flavored with lemon. Cover the pudding 
and nicely brown, save a little frosting to moisten the 
top, then put grated cocoanut over the top. 



PUDDINGS 49 

CREAM OF COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Put 1 pint of milk in a double boiler, moisten four 
teaspoons of corn starch in a little cold milk, add this 
to the scalding milk, stir and cook about two min- 
utes; then add 1 small cup of sugar, the well-beaten 
whites of three eggs and 1 cup shredded cocoanut. 

Sauce. One pint milk, the beaten yolks, of 3 eggs, 
with 3 tablespoons sugar. Flavor to taste. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare 6 apples and punch out the cores, fill holes 
with cinnamon and sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon to a 
cup of sugar; take 1 tablespoon" sago to each apple, 
wash it thoroughly and let soak an hour in water 
enough to cover the apples, pour water over the apples, 
and bake an hour and a half. 

APPLE ROLEY POLEY. 

Peel, quarter and core sour apples, make rich soda 
biscuit dough, (or raised biscuit dough may be used 
if rolled thinner), roll to a half inch thick, slice the 
quarters and lay on prepared paste or crust, roll up, 
tuck ends in, prick deeply with a fork, lay in a steam- 
er and place over a kettle of boiling water, cook an 
hour and three-quarters. Or wrap in a cloth, tie up 
the ends and baste up the sides, put in kettle of boiling 
water and boil an hour and one-half or more, keeping 
water boiling constantly. Cut across and eat with 
sweetened cream or butter and sugar. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Half pound figs, % pound grated bread, 2% 
ounces powdered sugar, 3 ounces butter, 2 eggs, 1 
teacup milk; chop figs fine and mix with butter, and 
by degrees add the other ingredients; butter, and 
sprinkle a mold with bread-crumbs, pour in pudding, 
cover closely and boil for three hours. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 



50 



PUDDINGS 



ORANGE ROLEY FOLEY. 

Make a light pastry as for apple dumplings, roll in 
oblong sheets and lay oranges peeled, sliced and seed- 
ed, thickly over it; sprinkle with white sugar, scatter 
over all a teaspoonful or two of grated orange peel, 
and roll up, folding down the edges closely to keep the 
syrup from running out ; boil in a cloth one and one- 
half hours. Eat with lemon sauce prepared as fol- 
lows : Six eggs, leaving out the whites of two, 1/2 pound 
butter, 1 pound sugar, juice of 2 lemons and rind of 
both grated ; place over a slow fire, stir till it thickens 
like honey. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Butter a pudding dish and line the bottom and sides 
with slices of stale cake (sponge cake is best), pare 
and slice thin a large pineapple, place in the dish first 
a layer of pineapple, then strew with sugar, then more 
pineapple, and so on until all is used, pour over a 
small teacup water, and cover with slices of cake which 
have been dipped in cold water ; cover the whole with 
a buttered plate, and bake slowly for two hours. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound figs chopped fine, 3 ounces bread 
or cake crumbs, % cup chopped suet, 1 cup milk, % 
cup sugar, 1 egg, 3 teaspoons flour, grated nutmeg 
and a pinch of salt. Steam two hours and serve with 
sauce. 

STEAM CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One-half cup granulated sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, a pinch of salt; 1/2 cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 2 squares grated chocolate. Steam one hour 
and serve with whipped cream. 



PUDDINGS 51 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Twelve eggs, or 8 will do, % pound suet, 1 pound 
seeded raisins, 1 pound English currants, ^ pound 
brown sugar, i/^ pound citron, a little salt, 1 pint 
bread crumbs, 1 pint flour and a small nutmeg. Steam 
or boil in a cloth four hours. Serve with hot sauce. 

PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup warm 
water, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup raisins. 
Steam two hours. 

Sauce. — Two cups sugar, % cup butter, beat to a 

cream. Add the beaten whites of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 

vanilla. Just before serving add 1 cup boiling wat-er. 

Stir well. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, % cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, 1 heaping teaspoon baking pow- 
der sifted with 1 pint flour. Bake or steam half hour 
and serve with lemon sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a buttered baking dish half full of sliced apples 
and pour over them a batter made of 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1/2 cup sugar, I/2 cup water, 1 cup flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven till 
brown. Serve with milk and sugar. 

LIGHT PUDDING. 

One egg, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 2-3 cup water, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup flour. 

Dip. — One scant cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup boiling water, flavor to 
tasite 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Four heaping tablespoons tapioca, soak over night, 
4 eggs, reserving whites of two eggs for frosting. 1 
cup sugar, 1 quart sweet milk, pinch of salt. Flavor 
to taste. Boil in pan or pail of water. 



52 PUDDINGS 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Mix together 2 cups flour and 1 teaspoon ; baking 
powder, with water to make a stiff dough. Butter 
teacups and drop in a little dough, some stoned cher- 
ries, then dough till cups are half full. Steam half 
hour. Eat with sweetened cream. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, % cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 1 
cup raisins chopped. Place in well greased cups and 
steam half hour. Serve with sugar and cream or 
with pudding dip. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

One box phosphate gelatine, covered with 1 pint 
cold water ; let stand I/2 hour, 1 cup sugar, 1 can pine- 
apples, juices of 3 lemons. Pour 1 pint boiling water 
over the gelatine and stir well, then pour over fruit. 
Add nuts if desired. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Put 1% pints sweet milk in a double boiler, let 
come to a boil, take the yolks of 2 eggs, % cup of 
sugar, 3 tablespoons corn starch, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, 

1 cup cold cooked rice, stir this together, add enough 
milk to make it thin enough to pour good, then add 
this to the hot milk, let cook till thick, beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth and just before removing 
from the fire add them and a pinch of salt. Let cool. 
Can be eaten hot or cold. 

PERSIMMON PUDDING. 

Take 1% quarts of persimmons, mash and rub 
them through a coarse sieve or fine collender, add 

2 eggs well beaten, % cup sugar, 1 pint sweet milk, 
% cup butter cut in small bits, a little ground cin- 
namon and nutmeg to flavor, then add flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Bake in moderately hot oven. 



PUDDINGS 53 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice into small pieces 5 sweet oranges 
in a dish, put over them a cup of sugar. Boil 1 pint 
milk, 1 tablespoon corn-starch and the yolks of 3 
eggs together (over water), soon as thickened pour 
over fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff froth adding 
a tablespoon sugar, spread over the pudding and set 
in oven to harden, or stir the beaten whites into the 
pudding. Serve cold. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, 1 cup syrup, 1 cup boiling water, 1 
cup raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, stirred in the syrup, % 
teaspoon salt, spice to suit taste. Steam two hours. 
Serve with the following sauce. 

Sauce. One cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 pint boiling water, va- 
nilla. Boil five minutes. 

SMALL PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup milk, % cup sugar, I/2 cup molasses, % 
cup butter, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon 
soda. Steam two hours. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

CHEESE CUSTARD. 

Six tablespoons grated cheese, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, % pint sweet milk into which stir 1 heaping 
teaspoon corn starch, 2 eggs beaten separately, salt 
and pepper to taste. Set in a pan of hot water and 
bake fifteen minutes. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One egg, 1 cup dried or fresh fruit, I/2 cup butter, 
2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons 
cream tartar, 1 2-3 cups flour, 1 2-3 teaspoons soda. 
Steam one hour. This pudding made with cherries 
is excellent. Do not cook in an earthen dish. 



54 PUDDINGS 

SUET PUDDING. 

Four cups flour, 1 cup suet, chopped fine, 1 cup 
baking powder, 1 cup milk, salt and spices to taste. 
After mixing ingredients together put into cups 
and steam for three hours. Fill the cups three- 
quarters full. TLis recipe makes from six to eight 
cups. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Chop fine 1 cup raisins and 1 cup suet, 2 cups sweet 
milk, 1 cup sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, 2 teaspoons soda and a little salt. Cover 
tight and steam or boil two hours; leave room to 
swell. Eat with liquid sauce. 

Sauce. One quart water, generous lump butter, 
1 cup of sugar. Flavor to taste. Thicken with 
flour. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons corn starch wet with cold water, 
pour over this 1 pint boiling water, cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly, add whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Wet a dish in cold water and pour the mixture in. 
Make a custard of the yolks of eggs, % cup sugar, 1 
cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoon flour, let come to a boil 
but not curdle; flavor. When ready to serve pour 
custard around. Set on ice. 



55 

MEMORANDA 



56 MEMORANDA 



SOUPS 



"The banquet waits our presence, 

Good sisters, let us dine . " ^ 

STOCK FOR SOUP. 

This is made from meat or bones of cooked joints 
of meat (omitting the fat), to which may be added 
chicken, turkey, beef or mutton bones, well broken 
up. Put this in cold water without salt, let it come 
slowly to boiling point, then skim well. Set it 
back and let it simmer gently for 6 hours, add a 
little pepper and salt, strain into a stone jar, let it 
cool and remove all the grease. This stock will 
stand for many days if kept cool and ready for all 
kinds of soup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Bone boiled, celery, potatoes, cabbage, rice, chop- 
ped and boiled an hour. Salt and pepper. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

A soup bone cut out of thigh, boil ; 3 eggs, salt and 
flour to mix very thick, roll very thin, let lay and dry, 
roll and slice very thin. Cook 10 minutes. 

PLAIN OYSTER SOUP. 

Pour 1 quart oysters in cullender, rinse by pour- 
ing over them 1 pint cold water, put this in a por- 
celain kettle, add a pint boiling water, let boil, skim 
thoroughly, season with pepper and butter, then add 
oysters, season with salt and serve. 



58 SOUPS 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Swell quarter of a pound of vermicelli or mac- 
caroni in a quart of warm water, then add it to a 
good beef, veal, lamb or chicken soup or broth, with 
quarter of a pound of sweet butter; let the soup 
boil for fifteen minutes after it is added, season with 
celery salt. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Sieve % can tomatoes, a little pinch soda, add 1 
quart boiling milk, 1 quart boiling water. Salt, pep- 
per and butter to suit taste. 

SALMON SOUP. 

One can salmon picked to pieces, 1 quart boiling 
milk, 1 quart boiling water, salt, pepper, butter to 
suit taste. 

OYSTER SOUP WITH MILK. 

Pour 1 quart cold water over 1 quart oysters, 
drain through coUender into soup kettle, when it boils 
skim ; add pepper then the oysters ; season with butter 
and salt, then add 1 quart rich, new milk boiling hot ; 
let all boil up once and serve. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Slice 4 or 5 potatoes into 2 quarts water, slice 
medium sized onion, cook until tender, butter size of 
an egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, little salt and baking 
powder, flour enough to make a stiff batter; drop 
from spoon into the potatoes, cook 15 minutes, keep 
covered until done. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

To a can of tomatoes add a pint of water, one bay 
leaf, four cloves, 1 teaspoon salt and 4 peppercorns. 
When these ingredients have been thoroughly boiled 
strain through a fruit sieve. Pour a pint of this into 
a saucepan in which has been melted a heaping table- 
spoon of flour, a tablespoon of sugar, and one of 
butter. As soon as this thickens pour into the main 
part and heat ready for serving. 



SOUPS 59 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP. 

Take 1 pint of fresh or canned tomatoes, slice fine 
a small onion, put on the stove and boil 10 or 15 min- 
utes, then add a pinch of soda dissolved in a little 
hot water, put in another dish 1 quart of sweet milk 
and as soon as at a boiling heat remove, add tomatoes, 
a small piece of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
at once. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Celery soup may be made with white stock. Cut 
down the white of half a dozen heads of celery into 
little pieces and boil it in four pints of white stock, 
with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and 2 ounces 
of butter. Simmer gently for a full hour, then 
strain through a sieve, return the liquid to the pan, 
and stir in a few teaspoonfuls of cream with great 
care. Serve with toasted bread and if liked, thicken 
with a little flour. Season to taste, adding a little cel- 
ery salt. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

One turtle, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
juice of one lemon, five quarts of water, a glass of 
Maderia. 

SQUIRREL SOUP. 

Wash and quarter three or four good sized squir- 
rels; put them on, with a small teaspoon of salt, 
directly after breakfast, in a gallon of cold water. 
Cover the pot close and set it on the back part of 
the stove to simmer gently, not boil. Add vege- 
tables just the same as you do in case of other meat 
soups in the summer season, but especially good 
will you find com, Irish potatoes, tomatoes and Lima 
beans. Strain the soup through a coarse cullender, 
when the meat has boiled to shreds so as to get rid of 
the squirrel's troublesome little bones. Then return 
to the pot, and after boiling a while longer, thicken 
with a piece of butter rubbed in flour. Celery salt 



60 SOUPS 

and parsley leaves chopped up are also considered an 
improvement by many. Toast two slices of bread, 
cut them, into slices one-half inch square, fry them in 
butter, put them into the bottom of your tureen, and 
then pour the soup boiling hot over them. Very good. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Two ox-tails, two slices of ham, one ounce of butter, 
two carrots, two turnips, three onions, one leek, 
one head of celery or celery salt, one bunch of savory 
herbs, pepper, a tablespoon of salt, 2 tablespoons of 
catsup, three quarts of water. Cut up the tails, 
separating them at the joints; wash them, and put 
them in a stewpan with butter. Cut the vegeta- 
bles in slices and add them with the herbs. Put in 
one-half pint of water, and stir it over a quick fire till 
the juices are drawn. Fill up the stewpan with 
water, and when boiling, add the salt. Skim well, 
and simmer very gently for four hours, or until the 
tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain 
the soup, thicken with flour, and flavor with the cat- 
sup and port wine. Put back the tails, simmer for 
five minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP. 

An old chicken is much the best. Cut it up into 
quarters, put it into the soup kettle with a half pound 
of corned ham and onion; add 4 quarts of cold 
water. Bring slowly to a gentle boil and keep this 
up until the liquid has diminished one-third and the 
meat drops from the bones; then add half a cup of 
rice. Season with salt, pepper and a bunch of 
chopped parsley. Cook slowly until the rice is 
tender, then the meat should be taken out. Now 
stir in 2 cups of rich milk thickened with a little 
flour. The chicken could be fried in a spoonful of 
butter and a gravy made, reserving some of the white 
part of the meat, chopping it and adding it to the 
soup. 



MEMORANDA ^^ 



62 



MEMORANDA 



VEGETABLES 



"Every man shall eat In safety. 
Under his own vine, where he plants." 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape parsnips, cut-in halves, remove the white, 
pithy part, boil in salt water until tender, then fry- 
in butter. 

VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Scrape the roots and drop into cold water at once. 
Cut across in thin slices and cook until tender, toast 
slices of bread and lay in a deep dish, add to the 
salsify when tender a little salt, thicken slightly with 
butter and flour and pour it over the toast. 

POTATO POT PIE. 

Half dozen potatoes sliced, 1 cup sour milk, % 
spoon soda, flour enough to make a soft dough. Roll 
out, cut in strips, place in the kettle a handful of 
potatoes, sprinkle with salt, pepper and butter, cover 
with a layer of the dough, another layer potatoes until 
you use all the material, cover with dough last on 
top. Pour boiling water to cover and cook twenty 
minutes. 

COOKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Take cauliflower, cut up in small pieces, cook in 
water until tender, salt to suit the taste, drain, pour 
on milk and season with butter, pepper and salt, 1 
tablespoon flour stirred up in milk. Stir this in the 
cauliflower, let it boil and serve hot. 



64 VEGETABLES 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Two quarts of white soup beans which have been 
soaked all night, % cup of molasses, 1 pound of salt 
pork, scored on top and 1 teaspoon soda. Sprinkle 
the soda dry in bottom of baking dish, then put in 
beans and pork and cover with water, bake in a slow 
oven all day. 

MACOARONI AND CHEESE. 

Pour boiling water over maccaroni and boil until 
tender, then pour off water, place in baking dish a 
layer of maccaroni, then a layer of grated cheese, and 
so on until dish is full, seasoning each layer with 
salt, pepper and bits of butter, then put on 1 cup 
milk. Bake slowly ^ hour. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint of boiled sweet corn sliced do^vn, % tea- 
spoon black pepper, % cup sweet milk, i/^ teaspoon 
salt, 2-3 cup flour, 1 egg. Beat all thoroughly to- 
gether and fry same as for griddle cakes. 
SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Slice potatoes very thin into cold water, let stand 
several hours, lay on cloth to dry. Fry a few at a 
time in boiling hot lard, lay them on paper as you 
take them out. Salt them. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cover the bottom of an earthen dish with ripe to- 
matoes, sliced, then a layer of bread crumbs seasoned 
with pepper, salt and butter, then another layer of 
tomatoes, and so on till the dish is filled, letting the 
top layer be of bread crumbs. Bake 15 mmutes. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Remove scales, cut in half-inch lengths, use only 
tender part, let stand in salted water several hours, 
drain, cover with boiling water, cook until tender, 
drain, cover with milk, add butter, pepper, salt, if 
needed a little thickeninsr. 



vegetabi.es 65 

PLUM DUMPLINGS. 

Sift two teaspoons baking powder with 1 quart 
flour, use sweet milk to make stiff batter. Put ] 
quart plums in a kettle and cover with water well 
sweetened, drop the dough in the kettle with the 
plums and boil until done. 

CORN, TO FRY. 

Cut corn from cob till there is about a quart of it 
and carefully pick out all bits of stalk or silk, beat 
2 eggs very light, stir them into corn with 2 table- 
spoons of flour; salt and pepper, have some lard hot 
and drop in the corn tablespoonful at a time. Fry a 
light brown. 

MACCARONI AND TO>L5lTOES. 

Boil 1/4 pound of maccaroni in boiling salted water 
until tender, blanch and arrange on hot platter; 
mince % pound raw ham and brown in a little of its 
own fat; spread this over the maccaroni; pour over 
the w±ole a pint of thick, stewed tomato pulp, garnish 
with diy bread crumbs browned in butter. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Break % package of spaghetti into small pieces; 
add % teaspoon salt, cover with boiling water and 
boil for 20 minutes ; add one pint of tomatoes, % cup 
of chopped cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a pinch 
of pepper and cook for 10 minutes; add I/2 cup of 
cream just before removing from the stove. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take 1 pint shelled Lima beans (green), wash, 
cover with hot water, let stand five minutes, pour 
off, place over fire and boil fifteen minutes; have 
ready corn cut from six good sized ears and add to 
beans, boil half an hour, add salt, pepper and 2 table- 
spoons butter. String beans may be used, cooking 
1 hour before adding corn. 



66 VKGKTABI.KS 

LIGHT DUMPLINGS. 

One pint of sour milk, 1 quart of flour, 1 egg, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, I/2 teaspoon soda, flour, bak- 
ing powder and soda sifted together. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin for frying, but- 
ter an earthen dish, put in layer of potatoes, season 
with salt, pepper and butter (and a bit of onion 
chopped fine, if liked), sprinkle a little flour over, 
now another layer of potatoes with seasoning; con- 
tinue until dish is full. Just before putting in oven 
pour one quart hot milk over. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour. Cold boiled potatoes may be used the 
same way, it will take less time to cook them; they 
are delicious either way. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak small white beans over night in fresh water, 
in the morning put them in a kettle with a second 
water sufficient to cover, and parboil until the skins 
present a shriveled appearance. Pour off the water, 
add salt to the beans, place in the middle of the 
beans a piece of bacon. Mix in a cup a tablespoon 
of molasses or brown sugar, half a teaspoon soda 
and half a teaspoon dry mustard, and add this to 
the beans. The above quantities are for a quart of 
beans. Cover with warm water and bake five hours. 
Keep watch that the water does not dry out until 
the beans are thoroughly cooked. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Slice about half an inch thick; pare and parboil 
in salt water, then dip in beaten egg and flour and fry 
in half butter and half lard. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Split and soak in weak salt water a few hours, 
drain well, flour and fry in butter to a nice brown. 



VEGETABLES 67 

TOMATOES. 

Take small ripe tomatoes, put on lettuce leaf in 
individual dishes, make the following dressing: Scant 
half cup vinegar, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons sugar, little 
salt, teaspoon butter, boil, stir till cool, put spoonful 
over each tomato. This makes a pretty dish. 

NEW POTATOES AND CREAM. 

Wash and rub new potatoes with a coarse cloth 
or scrubbing brush; drop into boiling water and 
boil briskly until done, and no more; press a potato 
against the side of the kettle with a fork, if done it 
will yield to a gentle pressure. In a saucepan have 
ready some butter and cream, hot, but not boiling, 
a little green parsley, pepper and salt ; drain the po- 
tatoes, add the mixture, put over hot water for a min- 
ute or two, and serve. 

BAKED MACOARONI. 

Put in a baking dish one layer of maccaroni then 
a layer of cheese, add a tablespoon of butter, an- 
other layer of maccaroni, etc., fill the dish with milk, 
bake until it jellies. 

SAUER KRAUT. 

Make early in the light of the moon. Use just 1 
pint of salt to a thirty-two gallon barrel of kraut, and 
you will not fail to have it first-class. 

LIMA AND KIDNEY BEANS. 

These beans should be put in boiling water, a 
little more than enough to cover them, and boil till 
tender — from half an hour to two hours — serve with 
butter and salt upon them. 

These beans are in season from the last of July 
to the last of September. There are several other 
varieties of beans, used as summer vegetables, whicl^ 
^r^ cooked ^s above. 



68 VEGETABLES 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and scrape them, split them lengthwise. 
Steam or boil them until nearly done. Drain and 
put them in a baking dish, placing over them lumps 
of butter, pepper and salt ; sprinkle thickly with sugar 
and bake in oven. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Stew the salsify as usual until very tender; then 
with the back of a spoon or a potato jammer mash 
it very fine. Beat up an egg, add a teacup of milk, 
a little flour, butter and seasoning of pepper and 
salt. Make into little cakes and fry to a light 
brown in boiling lard, first rolling in beaten eggs and 
then flour. 

CABBAGE WITH CREAM. 

Remove the outer leaves from a solid, small-sized 
head of cabbage, and cut the remainder as fine as 
for slaw. Have on the fire a spider or deep skillet, 
and when it is hot put in the cabbage, pouring over 
it right away a pint of boiling water. Cover close- 
ly, to allow it to cook rapidly for ten minutes. Drain 
off the water and add half a pint of new milk, 
or part milk and cream ; when it boils, stir in a large 
teaspoon of either wheat or rice flour, moistened with 
milk; add salt and pepper, and as soon as it comes 
to a boil serve. Those who find slaw and other dishes 
prepared from cabbage indigestible, will not com- 
plain of this. 

FRIED POTATOES WITH EGGS. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes and fry in good butter 
until brown; beat up one or two eggs, and stir into 
them just as you dish them for the table; do not 
leave them a moment on the fire after the eggs are 
in, for if they harden they are not half so nice; one 
egg is enough for three or four persons, unless they 
are very fond of potatoes; if they are, have plenty 
and put in two. 



VEGETABLES 69 

STEWED PUMPKIN. 

Stew pumpkin, cut into small pieces, in a % pint 
water ; and, when soft, mash with potato masher very 
fine, let the water dry away, watching closely to pre- 
vent burning or scorching. 

POTATO FILLETS. 

Pare and slice the potatoes thin; cut them if you 
like, in small fillets, about a quarter of an inch 
square and as long as the potato will admit; keep 
them in cold water until wanted, then drop them 
into boiling lard; when nearly done, take them out 
with a skimmer and drain them, boil up the lard 
again, drop the potatoes back and fry till done ; this 
operation causes the fillets to swell up and puff. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boiled, steamed and baked the same as Irish 
potatoes ; generally cooked with their jackets on. Cold 
sweet potatoes may be cut in slices across or length- 
wise and fried as common potatoes; or may be cut in 
halves and served cold. 

STRING BEANS. 

Break off the end that grew on the vine, drawing 
off at the same time the string upon the edge; re- 
peat the same process from the other end; cut them 
with a sharp knife into pieces half an inch long 
and boil them in just enough water to cover them. 
They usually require one hour's boiling, but this 
depends upon their age and freshness. After they 
have boiled until tender and the water boiled nearly 
out, add pepper and salt, a tablespoon butter, and 
half cream ; if you have not the cream, add more but- 
ter. Many prefer to drain them before adding the 
seasoning, in that case they may lose the real good- 
ness of the vegetable. 



70 VEGETABLES 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Pick over the rice carefully, wash it in warm 
water, rubbing it between the hands, rinsing it in 
several waters, then let it remain in cold water un- 
til ready to be cooked. Have a sauce pan of water 
lightly salted; when it is boiling hard pour off the 
cold water from the rice and sprinkle it in the boil- 
ing water by degrees, so as to keep the particles 
separated. Boil it steadily for twenty minutes 
then take it off from the fire and drain off all the 
water. Place the sauce pan with the lid partly off, 
on the back of the stove where it is only moderately 
warm, to allow the rice to dry. The moisture will 
pass off and each grain of rice will be separated, so 
that if shaken the grains will fall apart. This is 
the true way of serving rice as a vegetable, and is 
the mode of cooking it in the southern states where it 
is raised. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Chop rather coarsely the remains of vegetables 
left over from a boiled dinner, such as cabbage, 
parsnips, potatoes, etc., sprinkle over them a little 
pepper; place a sauce pan or frying pan over the 
fire, put in a piece of butter the size of a hickorynut, 
when it begins to melt, tip the dish so as to keep in 
the steam. When heated thoroughly take off the 
cover and stir occasionally until well cooked. Serve 
hot. Persons fond of vegetables will relish this dish 
very much. 

SPINACH. 

It should be cooked so as to retain its bright, 
green color, and not sent to the table, as it so often 
is, of a dull-brown or olive, color; to retain its 
fresh appearance, do not cover the vessel while it is 
cooking. Spinach requires close examination and 
picking, as insects are frequently found on the 
leaves. 



VKGKTABI.KS 71 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over a dozen sound, ripe toma- 
toes ; let them remain for a few moments ; then peel 
off the skins, slice them and put them over the fire 
in a well-lined tin or graniteware sauce pan. Stew 
them about twenty minutes; then add 1 tablespoon 
butter ; salt and pepper to taste ; let them stew fifteen 
minutes longer and serve hot. Some prefer to 
thicken tomatoes with a little grated bread, adding 
a teaspoon sugar, and others who like the flavor of 
onion, chop up one and add while stewing; then 
again some add as much green corn as there are 
tomatoes. 

BAILED WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut open the squash, take out the seeds, and with- 
out parting cut it up into large pieces ; put the pieces 
on tins and dripping pan, place in moderately hot 
oven and bake about an hour. When done, peel and 
mash like mashed potatoes, or serve the pieces hot on 
dishes, to be eaten warm with butter like sweet pota- 
toes. It retains its sweetness much better when baked 
this way than when boiled. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin, put a layer in a 
baking dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, add 
another layer of potatoes, and so on until the dish is 
full; put over the top a little cream or milk, a few 
bread crumbs and small piece of butter; bake one 
hour and serve hot. 

BEET GREENS. 

Wash young beets clean, do not separate roots from 
leaves, look over carefully to see that no bugs or 
worms remain. Boil in salted water from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Take out and drain in a 
cullender. Dish and dress with butter, pepper and 
salt, if needed. Serve hot with vinegar. 



72 VEGETABLES 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, peel, cut in thin slices across the grain and 
place in kettle in as little water as possible ; boil until 
you can easily pierce with a fork; drain well, season 
with salt, pepper and butter ; mash fine. Do not boil 
too long, as they are much sweeter when cooked 
quickly. 

ONIONS STEWED. 

Peel and quarter and boil in water until cooked 
tender. Drain, season with butter, milk, salt and 
pepper. 

COOKED RICE. 

Cook in water until soft, add chicken broth and a 
little salt. Good. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

To either fresh or canned corn add salt, pepper and 
butter to taste. Place alternatingly a layer of corn with 
layer of cracker crumbs in a baking dish. Make mix»- 
ture of two well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to 
cover corn. Pour in baking dish; bake one-half hour 
or until done. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Boil 8 onions in salted water, changing water twice. 
Drain and cut in halves, if large. Place in baking 
dish, season with salt and pepper, and pour a white 
sauce over them. Cover with bread crumbs, put bits 
of butter on top, set in oven to broTVTi. 



MEMORANDA 73 



74 MEMORANDA 



MEATS 



"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Lies through their mouth, or I mistake mankind." 

Meats and Suitable Sauces. 

Eoast Beef — Tomato sauce, pickles. 
Roast Mutton — Currant jelly, caper sauce. 
Roast Lamb — Mint sauce. 
Roast Veal — Sliced lemon. 

Roast Venison — Spiced currants or gooseberry cat- 
sup. 

Roast Pork — Apple sauce, onion sauce. 
Roast Goose — Apple or grape sauce. 
Roast Ham — Horseradish. 

TO FRY STEAK. 

Have a nice tenderloin or porterhouse steak one 
inch and a half in thickness, well hacked. Over this 
sprinkle salt, pepper and a little flour. Have ready a 
very hot spider. Into this drop plenty of good, sweet 
butter (% pound is not too much). When thoroughly 
melted, lay in the meat; turn frequently. While 
cooking make many openings in the steak to allow 
butter to pass through. When done, place on a hot 
platter and serve immediately. 

MEAT CAKES. 

Two cups of chopped cooked meats, 3 tablespoons 
cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 small onion, 2 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Chop onion very fine. 
Beat eggs very light without separating. Melt the 
butter, add to the cracker crumbs, mix with the eggs, 
meat and seasoning. Make into flat cakes and fry in 
half butter and half lard or drippings. 



'76 MEATS 

VEAL CROQUETS. 

Boil meat very tender, chop fine. To 1 bowl of 
meat add equal quantity of mashed potatoes, a little 
butter, 1 egg, salt and pepper. Make into balls and 
roll in flour. Fry in hot lard. 

MEAT BALLS. 

Chop cold meat with a meat chopper, 1 quart meat, 
3 eggs, well beaten, % pint cold mashed potatoes, pep- 
per, salt and gravy from meat, or half cup water, 
flour enough to form into balls as for sausage. Fry 
in a little grease. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Stew chicken until it drops from the bone, take out 
bones, make a sauce with butter, flour and milk, as 
much as desired. Salt 1 quart flour rubbed with i/o 
cup lard, a little salt and 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
wet with milk until you can roll. Place layer of crust 
in bottom, then chicken and gravy. Cover with crust 
half inch thick. 

BEEF OR MEAT BALLS. 

Chop cold or left over meats of any kind with same 
bulk of potatoes, add 1 little onion, if desired to 
flavor, then take dry brea4, pour hot water on it to 
moisten, having bread enough to make the mass ad- 
here so it can be made into cakes or balls. Fry a nice 
brown in skillet in butter or meat frjdngs. 

SMOTHERED BEEF STEAK. 

Take 1 large thin steak, lay out smoothly and wipe 
dry; prepare a dressing with 1 cup of fine bread 
crumbs, % teaspoon salt, some pepper, tablespoon but- 
ter % teaspoon sage, or use chopped onions and 
enough meat, roll up and tie carefully with stout 
string, put a few thin slices of pork in bottom of a 
kettle and fry till brown; put the roll of steak and 
also brown it on all sides, then add 1 pint of hot water 
and cook until tender, then thicken the grav^^ The 
roll is to be ca ^ed crosswise. 



MEATS 77 

MEAT CAKES. 

Take bits of cold meat, chop fine. To 1 pint 
chopped meat add 1 cup cracker crumbs rolled fine, 
beat two eggs, moisten with cream; pepper and salt to 
taste. Make in small cakes and fry in butter. Serve 
hot. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Parboil them in salt water; remove the skins and 
tough parts; cut in pieces the size of a large oyster; 
dip in beaten eggs; roll in cracker crumbs seasoned 
with salt and pepper; fry in hot butter or drop in 
hot lard as you would, doughnuts. 

 'TO AD-IN-THE-HOLE. ' ' 

Mix 1 pint of flour and 1 egg with milk enough to 
make batter (like that for batter cakes) and a little 
salt ; grease dish well with butter, put in lamb chops, 
add a little water with pepper and salt; pour batter 
over it and bake for one hour. 

FROGS FRIED. 

Frogs are usually fried, and are considered a great 
delicacy. Only the hind legs and quarters are used. . 
Clean them well, season and fry in egg batter, or 
dipped in beaten egg an^ fine cracker crumbs, the 
same as oysters. 

TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil a tongue until tender, remove the skin and 
return to the kettle and add % cup stock and 1 can 
tomatoes. Cook slowly until the tomatoes are done, 
add flour to thicken as for gravy, and 2 tablespoons 
onion juice. Remove the tongue to platter and pour 
over the sauce and garnish with parsley. 

TO FRY FRESH HAM. 

Soak sliced ham in molasses water for an hour be- 
fore cooking. Delicious. 



MEATS 
PRESSED BEEF. 



Select four or five pounds beef, boil until very 
tender, seasoning while it is boiling. Shred while 
warm and press firmly together. When cold slice and 
serve cold, or fry in butter. 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Boil a good-sized chicken until meat falls from 
bones, put in dish, alternate layers of chicken, cracker 
crumbs, salt, pepper and butter until dish is full, put 
in some gravy and as much cream and bake. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Four pounds ground beef, add to it 3 dozen small 
crackers, rolled fine, 4 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 table- 
spoons salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter. IMix well ; pack well. . Pour boiling water over 
and bake two hours. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH OYSTER DRESSING. 

Clean a turkey and lay it in dripping pan. Pre- 
pare a dressing of stale bread composed of 1 quart 
bread crumbs and 1 cup butter, water enough to 
moisten; add 2 dozen oysters, salt and pepper to suit 
the taste. Mix all and stuff the turkey with it. Sew 
u^ carefully. Put some water in the dripping pan; 
salt and a chunk of butter, set in the oven and bake 
until done, basting often. Never parboil a young tur- 
key. 

POT ROAST OP BEEF. 

Put into kettle some fresh suet; when hot put in 
the beef and sear over, as this keeps the juice in ; sea- 
son with salt, pepper and sift a little flour over ; cover 
with boiling water and boil slowly, letting the water 
boil down so the last half hour the meat will fry. 
Make a fine brown gra\^ and the roast is excellent. 



MEATS '/9 

TO ROAST BEEF. 

Sprinkle flour, salt and pepper on the beef, place 

in pan, pour in a little water, slice an onion, add 1 

tablespoon vinegar. Cover tight in roaster or baste 

often. A little vinegar makes tough beef tender and 

juicy. 

CHICKEN LOAF. 

One chicken, cook until tender, remove bones and 

chop fine, add 1 cup rolled crackers, 1 pint sweet 

milk, 1 eggf 1 teaspoon salt, pepper to taste. Mix all 

together, form into loaf and bake half an hour, baste 

with broth of chicken. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Two and one half pounds fresh veal and 14 pound 
pickled pork, chopped very fine, % teacup rolled 
crackers, 2 whole eggs, well beaten, salt, pepper and 
a little sage. Mix all together thoroughly and form 
into a loaf. Bake 1 hour. 

BRAIN CUTLETS. 

Well wash the brains and soak them in cold water 
till white. Parboil them till tender in a small 
saucepan for about a quarter of an hour; then thor- 
oughly drain them, and place them on a board, 
divide them, into small pieces with a knife. Dip 
each piece into flour, and then roll them in egg and 
bread crumbs, and fry them in butter or well-clari- 
fied drippings. Serve very hot with gravy. An- 
other way of doing brains is to prepare them as 
above, and then stew them gently in rich stock, like 
stewed sweetbreads. They are also nice plainly boiled, 
and served with parsley and butter sauce. 

ROAST PIGEON. 

Pigeons lose their flavor by being kept more than 
one day after being killed. They may be prepared 
and roasted or broiled the same as chicken; they will 
require from twenty to thirty minutes cooking. Make 
a gravy of the giblets or not ; season with pepper and 
salt, and add a little flour and butter. 



80 MEATS 

, SQUAB POT-PIE 

Cut into dice 3 ounces of salt pork; divide wild 
squabs into pieces, at the joints ; remove the skin. 
Cut up 4 potatoes into small squares, and prepare 
a dozen small dough balls. Put into a yellow, deep 
baking dish the pork, potatoes and squabs, and then 
the balls of dough; season with salt, white pepper, a 
dash of mace or nutmeg, add hot water enough to 
cover ingredients, cover with a "short" pie crust and 
bake in a moderate oven % of an hour. 

DREED BEEF WITH CREAM. 

Shave your beef very fine. Put into a suitable 
dish on the back of the stove, cover with cold water 
and give it time to soak out to its original size be- 
fore being dried. When it is quite soft and the 
water has become hot (it must not boil), take it off, 
turn off the water, pour on a cup of cream; if you 
do not have it use milk and butter, a pinch of pep- 
per, let it come to a boil, thicken with a tablespoon 
of flour, wet up in a little milk. Serve on dipped 
toast or not, just as one fancies. A nice breakfast 
dish. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Boil the forehead, ears and feet and nice scraps 
trimmed from the hams of a fresh pig, until the 
meat will almost drop from the bones, put it in a 
large chopping bowl, and season with pepper, salt, 
sage and summer savory. Chop it rather coarsely; 
put it back into the same kettle it was boiled in, with 
just enough of the li*![uid in which it was boiled to 
prevent its burning; warm it through thoroughly, 
mixing it well together. Now pour it into a strong 
muslin bag, press the bag between two flat surfaces, 
with a heavy weight on top; when cold and solid 
it can be cut in slices. Good cold or warmed up in 
vinegar. 



MEATS • 81 

FLANK STEAK. 

This is cut from the boneless part of the flank 
and is secreted between an outside and inside layer 
of creamy fat. There are two ways of broiling it. 
One is to slice it diagonally across the grain ; the 
other is to broil it whole. In either case brush but- 
ter over it and proceed as broiling other steaks. It 
is considered by butchers the finest steak which they 
frequently reserve for themselves. 

STUFFED HEART. 

Take a beef's or sheep's or veal's heart, wash 
deeply and thoroughly so as to remove all blood, 
make the two cells into one by cutting through the 
partition with a long, sharp knife, being careful 
not to cut through to the outside; make a stuffing 
of bread crumbs same as for roast turkey, fill the 
cavity, cover with greased paper or cloth to secure 
the stuffing, and bake in a deep pan with plentj^ of 
water, for two hours or longer, basting and turning 
often, as the upper part particularly is apt to get 
dry. While heart is roasting, put the valves or 
**deaf ears" which must be cut off after washing, 
into a sauce-pan, with a pint of cold water and a 
sliced onion. Let simmer slowly one hour; melt in 
same sauce-pan a tablespoon of butter, add a table- 
spoon flour then the strained liquid from valves, and 
serve as gravy. 

VEAL WITH OYSTERS. 

Fry 2 pounds tender veal cut in thin bits, and 
dredged with flour, in sufficient hot lard to prevent 
sticking; when nearly done add II/2 pints of fine 
oysters, thicken with flour, season with salt and pep- 
per. Cook until done. Serve hot in covered dish. 



82 MEATS 

PIGS' FEET PICliLED. 

Take twelve pig's feet, scrape and wash them 
clean, put them into a sauce-pan with enough hot 
(not boiling) water to cover. When partly done, 
salt them. It requires four or five hours to boil 
them soft. Pack them in a stone crock, and over 
them spiced vinegar made hot. They will be ready 
to use in a day or two. If you wish them for break- 
fast, split them, make a batter of 2 eggs, a cup of 
milk, salt, a teaspoon butter, with flour enough to 
make a thick batter; dip each piece in this and fry 
in hot lard. Or dip them in beaten egg and flour 
and fry. Souce is good eaten cold or warm. 

DELICIOUS FRIED HAM. 

Place slices in boiling water and cook until ten- 
der; put in frying pan and brown, and dish on a 
platter; fry some eggs by dripping gravy over them 
until done; instead of turning take up carefully and 
lay them on the slices of ham. 

ROAST HARE OR RABBIT. 

A very close relationship exists between the hare 
and rabbit, the chief difference being in smaller size 
and shorter legs and ears of the latter. The man- 
ner of dressing and preparing each for the table, is 
therefore, pretty nearly the same. To prepare them 
for roasting, first skin, wash well in cold water and 
rinse thoroughly in lukewarm water. If a little 
musty from being emptied before they were hung 
up, afterwards neglected, rub the insides with vine- 
gar and afterwards remove all taint of the acid by a 
thorough washing in lukewarm water. After being 
well wiped with a soft cloth put in a dressing as 
usual, sew the animal up, truss it, and roast for 
half or three-quarters of an hour, until well-browned, 
basting it constantly with butter and dredging with 
flour, just before basting up. 



MEATS 83 

FRIED LIVER. 

Always use calf's liver, (if possible), cut in slices.' 
Pour boiling water over and let it stand fifteen min- 
utes ; fry some slices of breakfast bacon, take out the 
bacon, roll the liver in either flour or corn meal, and 
fry a delicate brown; sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Serve with gravy if you like. 

TO FRY STEAK. 

Select good steak. Remove all undesirable meat. 
Hack with sharp knife ; dip in cold water, roll in flour, 
fry in medium hot skillet in butter and lard ; salt and 
pepper. 



84 



MEMORANDA 



FISH AND OYSTERS 



"Now good digestion wait on appetita 
And health on both." 

— Macbeth 

SAIiMON LOAF. 

Mix a can of salmon and half a cup of cracker 
crumbs with a tablespoon of butter and 3 well-beaten 
eggs, season to taste with salt and a little lemon juice. 
Pack closely in a pan and put in the oven long 
enough to cook eggs. Serve hot with a rich sauce 
of drawn butter. 

FISH BALLS. 

To one package of threads of codfish add double 
the quantity of potatoes. Soak the codfish in cold 
water about two minutes, then drain through a sieve 
or cloth. Mix the potatoes thoroughly, add one 
tablespoon butter and a little pepper. Shape into 
balls and fry in lard. An egg added to the above 
recipe improves it. 

BAKED BASS. 

Two good sized onions chopped fine, 1 pint bread 
crumbs, butter size of a hen's egg; plenty of pepper 
and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy sauce until 
quite red. 

Stuff your fish with this compound and pour the 
rest over it. Tomatoes can be used instead of chovies, 
and are more economical. If using them take pork, 
chopped fine, in place of butter. Shad, pickerel and 
trout are good the same way. 



86 FISH AND OYSTERS 

CREAMED C01>PISH. 

To a cup of fish add double the quantity of milk, 
one tablespoon butter, let it come to boil, then add 
one teaspoon corn starch and one egg beaten well. 
BAKED WHITE FISH. 
Thoroughly clean the fish, cut off the head or 
not as preferred; cut the backbone from the head of 
within two inches of the tail and stuff with the fol- 
lowing: Soak stale bread in water, squeeze dry, 
cut in pieces a large onion, fry in butter, chop fine, 
add the bread, two ounces butter, salt, pepper and 
a little parsley or sage; heat through and when 
taken off the fire add the yolks of two well beaten 
eggs. Stuff the fish rather full, sew up with fine 
twine and wrap with several coils of white tape; 
rub the fish over slightly with butter; cover the 
bottom of a baking pan with hot water and place the 
fish in, standing back upward and bent in the form of 
''S" Serve with following dressing: Reduce the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs to a smooth paste with 
two tablespoons good salad oil ; stir in half a teaspoon 
mustard. Add pepper and vinegar to taste. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Take one can salmon, add to it 3 beaten eggs, a 
iump butter, some crackers. Make into a loaf and 
steam an hour. Cook peas with cream and pour 
over loaf to serve. 

COD FISH BALLS. 

One cup raw salt fish; 1 pint potatoes, 1 teaspoon 
butter, 1 egg well beaten, i/4 salt, spoon pepper, more 
salt if needed. Quarter the potatoes and pick up 
the fish in cold water, cover with boiling water 
and boil twenty-five minutes or until potatoes are 
done. Drain, mash and beat very light with a fork ; 
add butter and pepper and when cooled a little add 
the egg and more salt if needed. Fry in hot lard 
one minute, five at a time. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 87 

BOILED BASS. 

Take a large bass and wrap in clean white cloth. 
Put on the fire in cold water, enough to cover well, 
boil half hour; take from fire and remove all bones; 
place in pan; pour over fish browned butter (good) 
with salt and pepper. Place in oven to brown. 

TO FRY EELS. 

Skin them, wash well, season with pepper and salt, 
roll each piece in fine Indian meal, fry in broiling 
lard, or egg them, and roll in cracker crumbs and 
fry. For sauce, use melted butter sharpened with 
lemon juice. 

SALMON PUFFS. 

Remove skin and bones from 1 pound can salmon 
and chop meat fine. Add 1 tablespoon melted but- 
ter, % cup fine bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice, 3 well beaten eggs, dash of salt and pepper, mix 
thoroughly in and pack in 6 or 8 cups, put in jar of 
hot water and bake % hour in oven. 

Dressing for Same. Pour slowly over the nice 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup hot sweet cream and let 
cool, add salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. 

Mrs. Margaret Price. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Put 100 large oysters and their liquid over the 
fire, salt and just let them come to a boil; then draw 
to back of the stove; skim off the top, take out the 
oysters with a skimmer and set them aside in an earth- 
en dish to cool; to the liquor in the kettle add a 
pint of vinegar, a red pepper broken into pieces, re- 
jecting the seed; whole cinnamon, cloves and pepper 
to the liking, boil and pour hot over the cold oysters ; 
cover and set in cool place. If they are to be kept 
longer than two or three days put them in cans and 
keep cool. 



88 FiSH AND OYSTERS 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a baking dish, sprinkle a layer of finely 
rolled cracker crumbs, then arrange a layer of oys- 
ters over the crumbs, moisten this well with liquor 
from oysters. This will suffice to moisten the crack- 
ers unless the latter is used too liberally; season with 
pepper, salt, a generous allowance of butter, cut into 
bits. Put on another layer of crackers, then more 
oysters and seasoning, alternating layers until dish is 
full. Make the top layer of crumbs, add a little 
milk or cream. Moisten well and bake in rather 
quick oven. A slow oven and too long cooking will 
ruin them. Use green corn instead of oysters for a 
change. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Twelve large oysters, 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoon butter, salt and pepper and parsley if agree- 
able. Heat 3 tablespoons butter, pour the milk, 
yolk of 2 eggs, oysters and seasoning in a dish and 
mix; add the whites of eggs and 1 spoon of melted 
butter, with as little stirring as possible, then cook 
to an appetizing brown, turning the omelet care- 
fully. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Four whites of eggs beaten light, 2 cups sweet 
milk, 1 quart bread crumbs or crackers grated, 1 quart 
oysters, 1 tablespoon melted butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Make into a paste and bake until light 
brown, put in earthen or granite dish. Low Sparks. 

OYSTER ROAST. 

Put 1 quart oysters in a basin with their own liquor 
and let them boil three or four minutes; season with 
a little salt, pepper and and heaping spoon of butter. 
Serve on buttered toast. 



FISH AND OYSTEKS 89 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, 1-8 teaspoonful celery salt, ly^ 
cups thick white sauce. Clean and cook oysters un- 
til plump and edges begin to curl; drain, and add to 
white sauce, seasoned with celery salt. Serve on 
toast, or in patty shells. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Place oysters in cullender to drain for a few min- 
utes; with a fork remove them separately to a dry 
towel; place another towel over them, allowing them 
to remain until all moisture is absorbed. < Have 
ready the beaten yolks of three eggs and a quantity 
of rolled crackers, salted and peppered. Dip each 
oyster separately, first into egg, then into crackers. 
When all have been thus dipped, have ready a hot 
spider, into which drop four heaping tablespoons of 
butter. When butter is melted place in the oysters, 
one by one; fry a light brown then turn. Serve 
very hot. 




^^ MEMORANDA 



EGGS 



"Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall, 
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall; 
All the king's horses and all the king's men 
Could not set Humpty Dumpty back again. 

Mother Goose 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

In a deep, earthen pie plate warm sweet milk, 
allow 2 tablespoons to each egg. Add a bit of but- 
ter, a little salt and pepper. When nearly to boil- 
ing point drop in the eggs; with a spoon or thin- 
bladed knife cut the eggs and scrape up from the 
bottom of the dish as it cooks. Take from the stove 
before it has quite all thickened, continue turning up 
fiK)m the bottom of dish a moment longer. The mix- 
ture should be in large flakes of mingled white and 
yellow and as delicate as baked custard. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Six eggs boiled for 20 minutes, remove shell and 
cut in two lengthwise. Remove yolks. With the 
yolks mix one teaspoon butter, a little salt, mustard 
if liked. Mix this fine, add vinegar to taste, and roll 
in little balls and place back in the white. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have water boiling, add salt and a small lump of 
butter. Then place it where it will stop boiling, drop 
in eggs one at a time, and let simmer gently till done, 
Serve on toasted bread. 



92 EGGS 

EGGS — SWISS STYLE. 

Cover the bottom of a dish with 2 ounces of but- 
ter and on this scatter grated cheese; drop the eggs 
upon the cheese without breaking the yolks; season 
to ta^te ; pour over the eggs a little cream and sprinkle 
with about 2 ounces of grated cheese. Set in moder- 
ate oven for about 15 minutes. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

One pint strong vinegar, I/2 pint cold water, tea- 
spoon, each, of cinnamon, allspice and mace. Boil 
the eggs till very hard, remove the shell, put spices 
tied in a muslin bag, in cold water, boil a few min- 
utes, add the vinegar and pour over eggs. Or place 
in a jar of beet pickles; the whites will become red; 
cut in two in serving. 

EGG OINTMENT. 

Three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
small cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch, I/2 teaspoonful of baking powder and a little 
salt. Add the whites beaten to a stiff froth last; 
cook in a little butter. 

EGG RINGS. 

One cup chopped meat, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper, 1 egg and water enough to moisten. Put 
the mixture into well greased gem tins, filling one- 
half full. Break a raw egg in the center of each, 
season and bake. 



MEMORANDA 93 



94 MEMORANDA 



SALADS 



"Oh! green and glorious! Oh! herbaceous meat! 
'Twould tempt the dying Anchorite to eat; 

Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 

SALAD DRESSING FOR CABBAGE. 

One egg, % teacup vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 
pinch salt, 1 teaspoon flour, small piece butter, heat 
until it becomes thick like cream. 

BEAN AND ONION SALAD. 

Peel and slice very fine five medium sized onions, 
cover with cold water, let stand for a few moments, 
then press them tightly with the hands to remove 
strong taste, drain thoroughly. Place in salad 
bowl 3 cups cold baked beans, mix with onions 2 level 
teaspoons salt, % teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons olive 
oil, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2-3 cup vinegar. Mix lightly 
but thoroughly with fork and spoon. Garnish with 
olives, 2 hard boiled eggs sliced, and crisp lettuce. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook three chickens until tender, chop, not very 
fine, add twice the quantity of mixed cabbage and 
celery chopped fine, slice 6 hard boiled eggs, season to 
taste, mix. 

Dressing. Two pints vinegar, butter size of an 
egg, when boiling hot stir 3 well-beaten eggs, 3 table- 
spoons mustard, 1 teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons su- 
gar, 1 teaspoon salt. Cook until thick, pour over 
chicken and cool. 



9^ SALADS 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Sixteen hard-boiled eggs, 3 tablespoons salt, 3 table- 
spoons white mustard seed, 3 tablespoons black pep- 
per, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons celery seed, % 
gallon cabbage, % gallon turkey or chicken, 4 cups 
vinegar, 1/2 cup melted butter or 1 cup fat fowl is 
boiled in. This is extra good. 

EGG SALAD. 

One dozen hard boiled eggs. Dressing — Two eggs 
well beaten, 1 heaping tablespoon sugar, 1 table- 
spoon flour, salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 
scant cup vinegar ; cook in double boiler. When ready 
to serve, thin the dressing with either sweet or sour 
cream. Arrange in salad dish, first a layer of the 
sliced eggs then the dressing ending with the eggs. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Cold cooked stringed beans, drained and dressed 
with mayonnaise dressing make an excellent salad. 

NUT SALAD. 

One pound English walnuts, 1 quart chopped ap- 
ples, 1 quart celery, 1 pound grapes. 

Dressing. Yolk of 12 eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 
cup vinegar, 1 level teaspoon mustard, butter size of 
an egg, 1 teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne. This will 
serve 30 people. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Two-thirds cups chopped celery, 1-3 cup chopped 
tart apples, 1-3 cup chopped English walnuts, mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



SAI.ADS 97 

CREAM DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Two tablespoons whipped sweet cream, 2 table- 
spoons of sugar, 4 tablespoons of vinegar. Beat well 
and pour over cabbage, previously cut very fine and 
seasoned with, salt and pepper. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Two-thirds cup vinegar, i^ cup sugar, 2 raw eggs, 
beaten, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 of mustard, 1 teaspoon of 
butter. Cook until like cream. 

MUSTARD DRESSING. 

One cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon mustard, 1 table- 
spoon corn starch, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 egg. Put 
vinegar and sugar on stove and let come to a boil. 
Beat egg, corn starch and mustard together, then stir 
in vinegar and sugar. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil 6 potatoes, let them cool, then. chop fine with 
6 hard boiled eggs and 1 onion. 

Dressing. One-half cup sweet cream, ^ cup of 
granulated sugar, 14 cup vinegar, 2 eggs, -|^ teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, butter size of walnut. Oook 
the dressing until it thickens, let cool and work 
through the potatoes thoroughly. Let stand one hour 
before using. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon, remove all bones and skin, chop 
fine. One cup finely chopped celery (cabbage will do; 
1 cup chopped English walnuts or hickorynuts, 2 hard 
boiled eggs, chopped. Mix together then add dress- 
ing. 

Dressing. Two eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoon su- 
gar, % teaspoon salt, pepper, 1 teaspoon mustard, % 
cup vinegar; cook in a double boiler. Two or three 
pickles sliced fine adds to the salad. 



98 SAtAfig 

VEAL SALAD. 

Two pounds cold veal cut small, 1 head celery and 
almost as much cabbage as veal. 1 pound nuts (mixed) 
and two potatoes. Pour over this any salad dress- 
ing. 

>L\YONNAISE DRESSING W ITHOUT OIL. 

Mix the yolks of 3 eggs and a teaspoon of salt, 1 
tablespoon of butter, a dash of pepper and i/o cup of 
vinegar. Set over the fire and stir constantly until it 
thickens ; after cool add to it I/2 cup of whipped cream 
and juice of half a lemon. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One egg beaten well, I/2 cup each of sugar vine- 
gar and hot water and butter; onions to taste and 1 
quart of mashed potatoes. 

BEET SALAD. 

Take 5 medium-sized beets, cook until tender, when 
cold chop fine, add a bunch of celery sliced thin, pour 
over salad dressing. 

DUTCH CHEESE SALAD. 

One pint good Dutch cheese, I/4 pound English wal- 
nuts chopped fine, mix Avell and if not moist enough 
add a little whipped cream. Make into small balls 
and place walnut meats on top. Serve on lettuce 
leaf, with salad dressing. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Drain oil from salmon, remove bones and skin. Line 
salad dish with fresh, crisp lettuce leaves. Put salmon 
in dish, pour over 2 or 3 tablespoons of lemon juice or 
vinegar. Cover thickly with dressing when ready to 
serve. 

PEA SALAD. 

Drain the juice off 1 can peas, to these add 1 pound 
English walnuts and mix with any desired mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



SAI.ADS 99 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One pint of good vinegar, 4 well beaten eggs, V2 
cup butter, put them on the fire and stir constantly 
until the mixture begins to thicken, then add 1 table- 
spoon mustard, 2 of salt, 1 of black pepper. Chop 1 
head of cabbage very fine, with 1 bunch of celery and 
soak in salt and water for two hours, drain and pour 
the dressing over it and mix. It will keep all 
winter in a cool place, if kept well covered. . By 
mixing lobster or chicken with it you will have a nice 
salad. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Wash and dry nice lettuce leaves, pour over a salad 
dressing, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 

HOT SLAW. 

One-half pint vinegar, butter the size of an egg, 1 
egg, 2 teaspoons each of mustard, salt and pepper. 
Boil the vinegar; take it from the stove, stir in all 
the ingredients quickly and pour over finely chopped 
cabbage. Cover closely and serve while hot. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Cabbage chopped fine as for slaw, put a cup of 
vinegar in a stew pan and let come to a boil, take 1 
tablespoon of flour, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon mustard, but- 
ter the size of an egg^ sweeten a little, salt and pepper 
to taste, put in the vinegar and boil until thick. Pour 
over the cabbage when cold. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Drain liquor ofl:* one can cove oysters, 1 cup vinegar 
to liquor, heat, pour over oysters cut in pieces, one 
cup celery cut in one-third inch pieces, or one cup 
chopped cabbage, 2 teacups rolled crackers, 4 beaten 
eggs ; 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 2 teaspoons celery seed, if cabbage is used. 
Let stand several hours. 



100 SALADS 

WINTER SALAD. 

One head of lettuce, 2 lemons, 3 juicy apples and 1 
stalk of celery. Pare the apples, cut them into slices, 
treat the lemons likewise. Mix thoroughly with finely 
chopped celery and cover with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BEET SALAD. 

Cut the cauliflower into desired pieces and steam 
until tender; mix with cold boiled beets cut in dice 
shape and serve with mayonnaise. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

After having scraped and washed asparagus, boil 
soft in salt water, drain off water, add pepper, salt, 
and strong cider vinegar, then cool. Before serving 
arrange asparagus so that heads will lie in center of 
dish; mix the vinegar in which it was put after re- 
moving from fire with good olive oil or melted butter, 
and pour over the asparagus. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Put a large lobster over the fire in boiling water 
slightly salted ; boil rapidly for about twenty minutes ; 
when done it will be of a bright red color, and should 
be removed, as if boiled too long it will be tough. 
When cold crack the claws, after first disjointing, 
twist off the head (which is used in garnishing), split 
the body in two lengthwise, pick out the meat in bits 
not too fine, saving the coral separate ; cut up a large 
head of lettuce slightly, and place on a dish over which 
lay the lobster, putting the coral around the outside. 
For dressing take the yolks of 3 eggs, beat well, add 
four tablespoons salad oil, dropping it in very slowly, 
beating all the time; then add a little salt, cayenne 
pepper, half a teaspoon mixed mustard, and two table- 
spoons vinegar. Pour this over the lobster just be- 
fore sending to the table. 



SALADS 101 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Two teaspoons mustard and 6 of sugar, 1 teaspoon 
of boiling water poured on the sugar and mustard to 
make a paste, 4 eggs, 2 cups of vinegar; cook all to- 
gether and when done put in butter the size of a wal- 
nut ; when cold add sweet cream. 

COMBINATION SALAD. 

One cup walnuts, 1 stalk celery, 3 large apples and 
] teaspoon salt. 

Dressing. One-half cup vinegar, % cup of sugar, 
1 egg, butter size of walnut, mix dressing before 
putting on the stove, cook until thick, let cool then 
mix in the salad. 




^^^ MEMORANDA 



Pickles, Chili Sauce and Catsup 



"Epicurean Cooks, Sharpen with Clayless Sauce his appetite." 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Cauliflowers, small cucumbers, small onions, small 
green tomatoes, Lima or string beans and celery. Boil 
all these in water until tender, in water that is slightly 
salted. Pour the following mixture over all boiling 
hot; 2' quarts vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, I/2 
pound mustard, red or green peppers. This will 
make about six quarts. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Take 6 or 8 ripe cucumbers, the same of green, 
pare, cut in small chunks, 3 quarts green tomatoes, 
pared, a cauliflower cut in small pieces, string beans 
cut in small pieces, soak all this in salt water over 
night, add musk melon cut in small pieces, Lima beans 
previously cooked a litle, a little red pepper, a couple 
of mangoes, celery cut in chunks, small onions cooked 
a little while in salt water, add nasturtium seeds, 10 
cents worth mixed spices, 5 cents worth cinnamon 
bark, mix all together. Cook in vinegar % of an hour. 
Use 4 cups sugar to 1 quart vinegar. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Eight pounds green tomatoes, cut up and boiled 
for 2 hours in water to cover, drain through a cul- 
lender, add 3 pounds brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 
1 teaspoon, each, of cloves, cinnamon, ginger and nut- 
meg. Boil one hour and bottle. 



104 PICKLES, CHILI SAUCE AND CATSUP 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One-half bushel tomatoes cooked and strained, boil 
down to 8 pints, then add 3 tablespoons salt, % table- 
spoon black pepper, 2-3 tablespoon allspice, i/^ of 
cloves, 1% tablespoons cinnamon and 1 pint vinegar. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICIvLES. 

Six pounds cucumbers, 8 pounds brown sugar, 1 
tablespoon, each, cloves, cinnamon and allspice, i^ 
tablespoon pepper, 2 tablespoons salt. Cover with 
vinegar and boil till tender. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eight quarts ripe tomatoes, chopped, 1 cup green 
peppers, 1 cup onions, i/^ cup salt, 5 cups sugar, II/2 
quarts vinegar, 2 teaspoons cloves, 3 teaspoons 
cinnamon, and 2 of ginger, 2 nutmegs. Boil three 
hours. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Thirty tomatoes, 10 onions, 5 large red peppers, 5 
tablespoons salt, 20 tablespoons sugar, 3 'cups vinegar, 
chop the onions and peppers together. Boil about 
two hours. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One quart onions, 2 quarts small cucumbers, 1 large 
cauliflower, 1 quart small green tomatoes. Put cu- 
cumbers in brine one day, scald onions and cauliflower 
in salt water. One green pepper, a little red pepper. 
To 3 quarts vinegar add 2 cups sugar, 1 cup flour, 14 
tablespoons mustard, stick of cinnamon. Scald the 
mixture and pour over pickles. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One-half peck tomatoes, 2 cups celery, 2 cups 
onions, 2 small red peppers, each chopped very fine, 1 
cup white mustard seed, 1 cup sugar, 1^ cup salt, 1 
teaspoon black pepper, 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, 
1 quart vinegar. Boil one and a half hours. 



PICKLES, CHILI SAUCE AND CATSUP 105 

CUCUftlBER MANGOES. 

Cut lengthwise two dozen large cucumbers, remove 
seeds, let stand in weak salt water over night, wash 
with fr©sh water and fill with the following: Chop 
fine 1 large head cabbage, 1 ounce celery seed, 1 ounce 
mustard seed (white), % ounce salt, 1 level teaspoon 
ground pepper, % cup brown sugar, mix with vinegar. 
Fill and tie with white thread. Put a layer of grape 
leaves in kettle, a layer of cucumbers, and so on. Cover 
with vinegar. Scald % of an hour, just let come to 
boiling point before removing from fire. Boil 1 gallon 
fresh vinegar, 1 teaspoon alum, 3 cups brown sugar 
fifteen minutes. Skim. Pour over cucumbers while 
hot from first vinegar. Bottle air tight. Fine. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

Two quarts caulifiower or cabbage, 1 quart green 
tomatoes, 1 quart little onions, 1 quart pickles, 1 quart 
green beans, 1 quart ripe cucumbers, salt, and drain 
over night. One cup salt, 1 gallon water, scald in vin- 
egar and drain. Three quarts vinegar, 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup flour, 6 tablespoons mustard, 2 tablespoons tu- 
meric, 2 tablespoons celery seed. Cook and pour 
over pickles. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Five pounds grapes cooked and rubbed through a 
sieve, 1 pint vinegar, 3 pounds sugar, 1 tablespoon 
ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon all- 
spice, 1 teaspoon pepper, % teaspoon salt. Boil until 
thick. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

One quart cucumbers, pack pickles in jar tight, take 
enough vinegar to cover pickles, add 1 teaspoon alum, 
2 or 3 small pieces horseradish, 1 tablespoon sugar. 
Heat and pour over pickles and heat again until they 
are hot, then seal. Will keep for years. 



106 PICKLES, CHILI SAUCE AND CATSUP 

MIXED PICKLES. 

One quart large cucumbers, 2 quarts small pickles, 
1 quart onions, 4 heads of cauliflower, 4 mango pep- 
pers, chopped, 1 quart green tomatoes, 1 gallon vine- 
gar, 1 pound mustard, 2 cups sugar, 2 spoons flour. 
Mix flour in paste. Boil spices in vinegar and add 
paste and 5 cents tumeric powder. Put all vegetables 
in salt water over night. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Peel the onions and lay in a brine that will float 
an eggy leave forty-eight hours, take out and drain, 
cover them with boiling hot vinegar. Season with 
whole pepper and cloves. 

CHOWDER. 

One peck green tomatoes, 3 large, plump cabbage 
heads, 6 onions, 8 green peppers, celery, 2 cups sugar, 
5 cents white mustard seed, mixed spices, cloves and 
vinegar. Cook thoroughly. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

For 250 small pickles, 2 gallons vinegar, 4 ounces 
salt, 2 ounces white mustard seed, 2 ounces alum, 2 
ounces allspice, 2 ounces cloves. Tie spices in a 
cloth, boil with vinegar. Wash the pickles and pack 
in a jar, pour hot vinegar over and put plate on the 
jar. Set in a cool place. 

SWEET RELISH. 

One gallon cucumber pickles, 1 gallon green toma- 
toes, 1 gallon onions, 6 stocks celery, 2 dozen mangoes, 
1 red pepper; chop fine, salt and let stand in weak 
vinegar ^:hree days. Drain well, add a dressing of 4 
quarts vinegar, 4 cups sugar, 10c worth ground must- 
ard, 10c worth of tumeric powder, 1 cup flour. Cook 
and pour over chow-chow and let come to a boil and 
can. 



PICKI^KS, CHILI SAUCE AND CATSUP 107 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Three tablespoons mustard, 1 tablespoon granulated 
sugar, well worked together, then beat in an egg until 
it is smooth; add 1 teacup vinegar, a little at a time, 
working it all smooth, then set on stove and cook 3 or 
4 minutes, stirring all the time. When cold add 1 
tablespoon of best olive oil, taking care to get it all 
worked in smooth. You will find this very fine. 
CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Small green pickles, wash, make salt brine about 
one and one half teacups to one gallon water, scald- 
ing, pour over and let stand three hours, take one gal- 
lon vinegar, add alum size of hickorynut, let it get hot 
and put the pickles in and let stand fifteen minutes. 
Now take out and throw vinegar away. Take 1 gallon 
good, fresh vinegar, add white mustard seed, % ^^V 
sugar, 1 green pepper, cut in two, cinnamon, cloves, 
celery seed, a thimbleful alum ; let all come to a scald. 
Seal in glass jars. Be sure to have good cider vinegar. 

Will keep for years. 

MIXED MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One gallon pickles, same of onions, cook onions 
tender in salt water, mix thoroughly before putting 
the dressing on. 

Dressing. Six tablespoons strong mustard, 1 table- 
spoon tumeric powder, li/^ cups, 2c curry powder, 1 
cup flour. Mix all together. Add 2 quarts best vine- 
gar, scald, stirring constantly, then turn the contents 
over pickles hot. Seal. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One gallon green tomatoes, 1 gallon chopped cab- 
bage, 1 gallon cucumbers, 2 bunches celery, all chop- 
ped. Salt tomatoes and cabbage separately and 
leave stand a few hours, then put to drain over night ; 
in the morning stir all together and heat in weak vine- 
gar, drain again and put in 2 quarts vinegar, 1 pound 
sugar, celery seed, cinnamon, cloves whole, and tum- 
eric. 



108 PICKLKS, CHILI SAUCE AND CATSUP 

PICKLES IN GRAPE LEAVES. 

To 1 gallon pickles sprinkle 1 cup salt, cover with 
boiling water. Let stand over night, drain water 
off and heat hot and again pour over pickles. Repeat 
this for three mornings. Drain well, line jar with 
grape leaves, (washed) then a layer of pickles. Scat- 
ter over spices and whole mustard seed ; small branch- 
es of mustard in the pod is better ; then another layer 
of grape leaves, pickles and spices alternately until 
jar is almost full. Cover with cider vinegar. Place 
a small weight on to keep pickles under vinegar. Tie a 
paper or cloth over the top to keep out the dust. If 
the vinegar turns white, drain that off and cover with 
fresh vinegar. In this way pickles will keep any 
length of time. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take nice, large, ripe cucumbers, pare them, take 
out the seeds and soak over night in weak salt water, 
then let them boil a few minutes in weak vinegar, and 
stay in this twenty-four hours ; pour this off and take 
good, strong vinegar, sweeten well. Add allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon, let this come to a boil and pour 
over the cucumbers. Scald the syrup as often as nec- 
essary afterward, which will be seldom if made late in 
the season. After trying this you will not let your 
ripe cucumbers go to waste. 

DILL PICKLES. 

Two quarts vinegar, 1 quart water, % cup salt. 
Wash the pickles and wipe dry. Put in jar a layer of 
dill and horseradish, cut in small pieces, whole pepper, 
cloves and bay leaves; then a layer of pickles; alter- 
nate the layers until jar is filled; cover with the vine- 
gar mixture. Do not boil any part of it. Make a 
sack large enough to cover top of crock. Into this put 
five cents' worth mustard seed, spread on top, then a 
plate to fit close. These pickles will keep until spring 
without washing off. 



MEMORANDA 109 



^^^ MEMORANDA 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

"Never attempt to make jelly in damp or cloudy weather 
If firmness or clearness is desired." 

GENERAL RULES FOR MAKING JELLY 

Always make in porcelain kettle. Use refined or 
granulated sugar. Do not have fruit, especially grapes 
or currants, over-ripe. Make not over two or three 
pints of jelly at a time. As a general rule allow equal 
measure of juice and sugar. Boil juice rapidly ten 
minutes, skim and add sugar, boil ten minutes longer. 
To test jelly, drop a little in a glass of very cold water 
and if it immediately falls to the bottom, it is done. 
TRANSCENDENT CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Transcendent or any variety of crab apples, may 
be prepared as cultivated wild plums, adding flavor- 
ing of almond, lemon, peach, pineapple or vanilla to 
the jelly in proportion to one teaspoon to two pints of 
juice before it is done. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Put on the stove grapes just beginning to turn, boil, 
place in a jelly bag and let drain. To 1 pint of juice 
add 1 pint sugar and boil twenty minutes. 
RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Stir into 1 quart of red raspberries a cup granu- 
lated sugar. At the end of one hour run the berries 
through a vegetable press and strain the juice. Have 
ready a V2 ^^'^ gelatine soaked in a cup of cold water- 
for 2 hours. Pour over this 1 pint boiling water; 
'strain and stir in the berry juice; wet a jelly mould, 
line with ripe berries and pour the liquid, when cold, 
into it; set aside to form. Eat with cream. 



112 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Pare and grate 5 nice quinces, 5 pounds sugar to 
1 pint boiling water. Stir over fire until dissolved, 
add the grated quinces. Cook fifteen minutes; pour 
into glasses. Cover when cold. 

HOW TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND. 

Be careful in your selection; do not choose too 
young, and take only such as have been reared in a 
good moral atmosphere. Some insist on keeping them 
in pickle, while others keep them in hot water. 
This only makes them sour, hard and sometimes bit- 
ter. Even poor varieties may be made sweet, tender 
and good by garnishing them with patience, well 
sweetened with smiles and flavored with kisses to 
taste; then wrap them in a mantle of charity, keep 
warm with a steady fire of domestic devotion and serve 
with peaches and cream. When thus prepared they 
will keep for years. 

STRAWBERRY SUN PRESERVES. 

One pint fruit, 1 pint sugar. Boil ten minutes, 
spread on plates and set in sun one day. 

ORANGE JAM. 

Take sweet oranges, peel and put the pulp through 
a sieve. Put a pound of white sugar to each pound of 
pulp and juice. Boil twenty minutes and seal. 
LEMON JELLY. 

Stir together 2 large cups sugar, the juice of 6 
lemons and the grated peal of 2 lemons, 1 package 
gelatine, well soaked in warm water, cover for 1 hour, 
pour 3 pints boiling water over this, stir until gela- 
tine is thoroughly melted and strain through a cloth. 
CURRANT JAM. 

Weigh an equal quantity of sifted white sugar and 
currants, picked carefully from the stems. Boil to- 
gether ten minutes, stirring gently and skim ; add the 
juice of 1 lemon to 4 pounds of fruit. Seal while hot. 
This is excellent. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 113 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Dissolve % box of plymouth rock gelatine in y2 pint 
cold water and add 1 quart of stewed tomato, season 
with sugar, salt, pepper, celery salt and a little onion. 
Cook. Strain through a sieve while hot. Pour into 
cups or individual molds and put into a cold place to 
harden. Turn each form on a lettuce leaf and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

CHERRY PRESERVES. 

Pound for pound of cherries and sugar. Put cher- 
ries and sugar on stove and boil eight minutes; skim 
cherries and spread thin on plates, cover lightly with 
syrup and let stand in sun ; if sun is very hot % day 
will cook; if not, leave in sun all day. Put remain- 
der, of syrup in dishes and set in sun same as fruit ; 
leave all in dishes until morning. 

To Can. Put 2 spoons fruit and 1 of syrup until 
can is filled. Do not heat fruit or cans next morn- 
ing. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Moisten 2 tablespoons corn starch, stir it into 1 
pint boiling water and add juice of 2 lemons and 1-3 
cup sugar, grate in little of the lemon rind. Put in 
moulds to cool. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Peel fruit, take almost half and half pears and 
sugar, let stand over night; in the morning drain 
syrup off and boil, pour over pears, let stand again 
one night. Cook now until tender, skim the fruit out 
and boil syrup until thick. Will last a long time. 

FROST JELLY. 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in i/4 pint cold 
water, 3/2 pii^t boiling water, 1% cups sugar, juice of 
2 lemons. When cool and beginning to form, add 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and beat together until well 
mixed. Set in a cool place. 



11^ PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Two quarts cranberries, li/o pints cold water, cover, 
boil ten minutes, strain, add 1 1-3 pints granulated su- 
gar, stir, let boil one minute. Rinse mould in cold 
water before pouring in jelly. For 3 quarts berries 
use 1 quart cold water, 1 quart sugar. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON OR CITRON. 

Peel the melon and boil until soft, try with fork. 

,To 1 pound allow lyo pounds sugar, simmer slowlv 

for 2 hours in this syrup, flavor with lemon. Lift 

the melon and boil syrup until thick and pour it over, 

add juice of 1 lemon to each quart of syrup. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Scald the tomatoes, a few at a time, remove skins 
and cores, then cut through the middle from side to 
side so you can remove the seeds, which is easiest 
done with the thumb. Have a bucket of cold water 
to dip the tomatoes in, which will rinse the remain- 
ing seeds from it, squeeze it in your hand and it is 
ready for the preserving kettle. Have your sugar 
melted and boiled to a syrup, put the tomatoes in and 
boil until they are transparent. Use equal amount of 
sugar and tomatoes. These are far superior to those 
you don't remove the seeds, for seeds make them bit- 
ter and watery. 

STRAWBERRY AND RHUBARD JAM. 
Take half berries and half rhubarb. Scald rhubarb 
with boiling water and add sugar. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 

Have your pine apples as ripe as can be procured. 
Pare and cut in thin slices, cut each slice in quarters, 
be very careful to remove. every particle of the skin 
for if it is not all removed it will cause the preserves 
to look specky. Weigh the fruit and allow a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. Put a layer of pine apple 
and a layer of sugar and so on, until the fruit is all in 
the dish (use a large earthen dish). Put a layer of su- 



PRESKRVES AND JELLIES 115 

gar on top and let stand over night. In the morning 
drain oft* the juice and put it in a preserving kettle. 
Stir in the white of an egg and skim as it comes to a 
boil; let it boil ten minutes, then pour boiling hot 
over the pine apple and let it stand and grow cold 
with covering, when thoroughly cold, put in glass jars 
and seal. Serve cold with sliced bananas. 

CHERRY SUNSHINE. 

One pint of sugar to quart of cherries. Boil from 
5 to 8 minutes, pour in tumblers and set in the sun 
for 3 days. 

A SURE TEST TO TELL THAT JELLY IS DONE. 

Dip a spoon sidewise into the boiling mass. If on 
removing it the jelly runs off in two places, remove 
from the fire at once. 




116 MEMORANDA 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 



"Dainty bits make rich the ribs." 

* POTATO PANCAKES. 

Grate 10 good sized raw potatoes; 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 eggs well beaten, one tablespoon flour. Fry in 

butter. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Thoroughly beat one egg, add a pinch of salt and a 
teacup of sweet milk. Dip slices or pieces of stale 
bread in this and fry in butter until a nice brown on 
both sides. 

CHICKEN OMELET. 

Mince fine 1 cup stewed chicken, warm in a teacup 
of sweet milk, 1 tablespoon butter, salt and pepper; 
thicken with 1 tablespoon of flour. Make a plain 
omelet, then add this mixture just before turning it 
over. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese, 1 cup flour, 1% tablespoon 

butter; rub butter into flour, add % teaspoon salt; 

mix with water as for pie crust. Roll thin; cut into 

straws and bake. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

One quart sweet milk, 4 tablespoons corn starch, 

4 tablespoons sugar; divide into three equal parts; 
take 1-3 of it out into a dish, grate up one small cake 
Baker's chocolate and stir into another third; add a 
few drops of fruit coloring and rose flavoring to the 
other third. Serve with whipped cream. 



118 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 

GEMS. 

One cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, 2 eggs, 
2-3 cup sweet milk, 1 cup currants, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flour to make rather stiff batter. Bake 

in gem pans. 

PANCAKES. 

Three cups sour milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon soda, 21/2 tincups 
flour. Sift flour, soda and baking powder together. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart sweet milk, 6 eggs, whites beaten separ- 
ately; add last. Two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
flour enough for a thin batter, 1 cup of melted butter, 
a little salt. This makes waffles enough for eight 

people. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 3 bananas sliced thin, enough 
flour to make a very stiff batter. Drop in hot lard 
until deep brown. Serve hot with a sauce. 
GRIDDLE CAKES. 
One pint sweet milk, 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon salt; stir in wheat flour until 
thick batter, bake on hot griddle. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, 1 pint sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, enough flour to make a stiff batter. Fry in 
hot lard. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 cup grated cheese, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon 
salt ; 1 saltspoon red pepper, 3 eggs beaten separately. 
Bake in a quick oven until brown. 

HICKORYNUT MACROONS. 

One quart kernels rolled fine, whites of 8 eggs 
beaten stiff, 2 cups sugar, flour to stiffen; drop on 
buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 119 

LETTUCE-HA3I SAINT^WICH. 

Cut slices of bread, spread with butter, lay lettuce 
leaf on one piece and cold boiled ham chopped very 
fine, mixed with mayonnaise dressing, spread on slice 
of bread, buttered, and lay on lettuce leaf. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Take rice you have left over and break an egg in, 
season with salt, mix enough rolled crackers in to 
make it thick enough so you can make long rolls as 
thick as your two fingers and put in enough lard so 
they will float before putting in. Nice for supper. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two tablespoons sugar and one of butter, well 
stirred together, add one coffee cup sweet milk, gra- 
ham to make a stiff batter, then one well beaten egg, V2 
teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
15 minutes. Make 1 dozen gems. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One-half can of corn, 1 egg, 4 tablespoons milk, 
1/2 cup flour, pinch of salt, a pinch of baking powder, 
drop from a spoon into hot lard. 

BAKING POWDER PANCAKES. 

Take 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder and flour 
enough to make a thin batter, add a pinch of salt. 

STUFFED OLIVES. 

Stuffed olives make an excellent filling for plain 
white bread sandwiches. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

One quart bread sponge, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg, knead these and let raise, then roll out, 
spread with butter, sugar and cinnamon, cut and roll 
up. Bake thirty minutes. 



120 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 

A NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

Stale bread dipped in batter and fried in lard and 
butter mixed. Make the batter with eggs — a teaspoon 
of corn starch, mixed with a tablespoon of milk to 
each egg. Salt. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups of graham flour, 1 cup of wheat flour, 
3 teaspoons of baking powder, 3 tablespoons sugar, 
pinch of salt, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, add milk 
enough to make it drop from spoon. Bake 20 or 25 
minutes in gem pans. 

MUSH. 

To three quarts of boiling water add salt to taste ; 
stir in gradually sufficient corn meal to make it quite 
thick. Boil slowly one hour. Stir often. Eat with 
cream, milk, butter or syrup. To fry when cold, 
cut in thin slices and fry in lard a nice brown. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

One cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the yolk of an 
egg light, add to potatoes with cream and season- 
ing. Beat until very smooth and light, add carefully 
the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth, turn into 
a greased baking dish and brown in a quick oven. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. 

These are made of any scraps or bits of good food 
that happens to be left from one or more meals, and 
in such small quantities that they cannot be warmed 
up separately. As for example, a couple of spoons- 
ful frizzled beef and cream, the lean meat of 1 mutton 
chop, 1 spoon of minced beef, 2 cold hard-boiled eggs, 
little cold chopped potato, a little mashed potato, a 
chicken's leg, all the gristle and hard outside taken 
from the meat. These things well chopped and sea- 
soned, mixed with one raw egg, a little fljour and 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 121 

butter and boiling water ; then made into round cakes, 
thick like fish-balls, browned well with butter in a 
frying pan or on a griddle. 

Scraps of hash, cold rice, boiled oatmeal left from 
breakfast, every kind of fresh meats, bits of salt 
tongue, bacon, pork or ham, bits of poultry, and 
crumbs of bread may be used. They should be put 
together with care, so as not to have them too dry to 
be palatable, or too moist to cook in shape. Most 
housekeepers would be surprised at the result, making 
an addition to the breakfast or lunch table. Serve 
on small squares of buttered toast, and with cold 
celery if in season. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup hot water and % cup butter boiled togeth- 
er. While boiling stir in 1 cup sifted flour; remove 
from the fire and stir to a smooth paste. When cold 
add 3 unbeaten eggs, stirring five minutes. Drop in 
a greased pan with a small tablespoon and bake in 
quick oven twenty-five minutes. 

FiLiJNG. One cup milk, % cup sugar, 1 egg^ 3 
tablespoons flour. Cook thoroughly and flavor. When 
cream and puffs are cold cut open with sharp knife 
and fill. 

BUCKWHEAT CAItES. 

Buckwheat flour, when properly ground, is per- 
fectly free from grit. The grain should be run 
through the smutter with a strong blast before grind- 
ing, and the greatest care taken through the whole 
process. Adulteration with rye or corn cheapens the 
flour, but injures the quality. The pure buckwheat 
is best and is unsurpassed for griddle cakes. To make 
batter warm 1 pint sweet milk and 1 pint water (one 
may be cold and the other boiling) ; put half this mix- 
ture in a stone crock, add 5 teacups buckwheat flour, 
beat well until smooth, add the rest of the milk and 



122 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 

water, and last a teacup of yeast. Or the same in- 
gredients and proportions may be used, except adding 

2 tablespoons molasses or sugar, and using 1 quart 
water instead of 1 pint each of milk and water. 

POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

To 1 pint mashed potatoes add 1 egg and enough 
flour to make into balls. Drop in hot water and boil 
twenty minutes. Serve with gravy. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

To 2 cups of rolled peanuts add % cup of mayon- 
naise dressing and spread between thin slices of but- 
tered white bread. Very fine for lunches. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart graham flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

3 eggs and milk or water enough to make thin batter. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One egg, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 
3 cups buttermilk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon 
melted lard, stir in enough graham flour so it will 
drop (not pour) off the spoon; drop in hot gem pans, 
well greased, bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Three cups buttermilk or sour milk, 3 cups graham 
flour, 11/2 cups white flour, i/o cup molasses, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons soda. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint flour, large pinch salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
sifted with flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 egg added 
last thing. Bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES 1 23 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKET. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper, cut fat 
bacon in very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each slice 
and fasten with a toothpick. Heat a frying pan and 
put in the little pigs, cook just long enough to cook 
the bacon. Place on slices of toast that have been 
cut into small pieces and serve immediately; do not 
remove toothpicks. This is a nice relish for lunch or 
tea, garnished with parsley. The pan must be very 
hot before the pigs are put in and care must be taken 
not to burn them. 

SANDWICH FILLING. 

Take ham, veal, chicken, sardines, etc., with the 
white of eggs chopped very fine and mixed with suf- 
ficient of the dressing to make a paste the consistency 
of batter; spread this on thin slices of bread, cut in 
irregular shapes, and you have most delicious sand- 
wiches. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Put chopped olives and grated cheese with a lettuce 
leaf between slices of buttered bread. 




124 MEMORANDA 



CANNING AND SPICED FRUITS 



"Mingle, mingle, mingle; you that mingle may." 
CANNED PIE PLANT. 
Cut fruit in squares and fill fruit cans, (not cook- 
ing) set cans in pans- and fill to overflowing with cold 
water until can is all under water; let stand two 
hours, seal tight, not heating either fruit or cans. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Wash the peaches, take 1 quart vinegar, the same 
of sugar and heat; cook the fruit a little, then place 
in jars, pour the vinegar and sugar over, add cloves 
and seal. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup, then make a 
thickening of 2 teaspoons corn starch and % gallon of 
sjrup, let come to a boil, then add berries, heat a few 
minutes, can and seal; place cans top down and let 
stand three days and put away in the dark. 
CORN CANNED. 
Three pints water to 8 pints corn, boil twenty min- 
utes, then add 1 pint salt, boil three minutes and can. 
SPICED CHERRIES. 

Eight pounds stoned cherries, 1 pint strong vinegar, 
4 pounds brown sugar, all kinds of spices tied in a 
piece of cheese cloth, a few pieces stick cinnamon; 
drain and heat, pour boiling hot over fruit every 
morning for a week. Heat fruit and juice all to- 
gether before putting in jars. If desired add more 
sugar. 



126 CANNING AND SPICKD FRUITS 

RHUBARB. 

To what will make 4 quarts of canned rhubarb 
slice one pineapple. Cook together, sweeten and can. 

GRAPES. 

Take grapes, wash and pour boiling water over 
them until they are covered, let stand about fifteen 
minutes; skim out fruit and put in jars. Make a 
hot, thick syrup, pour over and seal. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

Pit the cherries, put them in clear water and cook, 
dip them out of the juice, put them in cans and fill 
with boiling water and seal. 

SPICED APPLES. 

Eight pounds apples, pared, 4 pounds sugar, 1 
quart vinegar, 1 ounce stick cinnamon, % ounce 
cloves. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices together; put 
in the apples and let them stay till tender. Put them 
in a jar, boil syrup till thick, pour over. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Pare, stone and halve nine pounds peaches, simmer 
till tender, pour off the water and add 1 pint vinegar, 
4 pounds sugar, cloves, mace and cinnamon, boil half 
an hour or less if they seem too soft. 

CANNING STRAWBERRIES COLD (FINE). 

Take fresh, firm berries, add 1 pound sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Scatter the sugar in between the 
layers of fruit and let stand in ice box eight or ten 
hours. This will harden the fruit so you can put your 
hands in and stir thoroughly from the bottom. Let 
stand five or six hours; stir again and put into pint 
cans ; put spoon into can and stir once or twice around 
to get out the air. See that your can is full before 
sealing. Use everything cold. 



CANNING AND SPICBD FRUlTS 127 

CANNED STRING BEANS. 

Take the beans and cut them in nice size to cook, 
put them in a large porcelain kettle, cover them with 
water, then add enough salt to make quite salty, cook 
till almost tender, put in quart cans, cover with the 
juice, leaving a space at top of can for two table- 
spoons of good vinegar, seal air tight. When you 
want to use them take and rinse them, then boil and 
drain, then season the same as fresh beans with the 
exception of salt. They will keep for a whole year 

if air tight. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 

Take equal measure of shredded pineapple and 
sugar, j5lace in a crock alternately. Let this stand 
over night. In the morning drain off the juice ; to 3 
cups of juice add 1 cup water. After this mixture 
comes to a boil put in the pulp of pineapple, let boil 
up (not cook). Seal. 

SPICED HUCKLEBERRIES. 

Seven pounds berries, S^^ pounds sugar, 1 pint vin- 
egar, spice to taste. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds fruit, 4 pounds sugar, 2 tablespoons 
cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 pint vinegar. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Make a syrup with 1 quart of water, 2 cups sugar, 
% cup good vinegar, boil until thick; wash peaches 
and drop in syrup and boil until tender, take up and 
pack in jars or cans as full as possible and pour over 
the syrup. Will keep in jars a long time. 

CANNED BEETS. 

Boil young beets until tender, peel and slice. Take 
good, strong cider vinegar and half as much sugar as 
vinegar. Let come to a boil, drop in beets, heat thor- 
oughly. Can immediately. 



128 MKMOKANDA 



FANCY DESSERTS 



"She was so skilled and perfect in the art, that everything her fairy fingers 
touched, seemed like Ambrosia; fit for the gods. 

ORANGE SHERBET, 

Juice of one dozen oranges, half dozen lemons, 
strain, add 4 cups sugar, 2 quarts water, freeze; just 
before it is frozen stiff add the whites of two well- 
beaten eggs. 

LEMON ICE. 

Juice of six lemons and grated rind of two, 2 cups 

sugar, 2 quarts water and the beaten whites of 4 

eggs, freeze. 

MILK SHERBET. 

Juice of 4 lemons, 3 cups sugar, thoroughly beat 
these before adding 3 pints of milk, freeze immediate- 

ly. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Dissolve 2 tablespoons gelatine in % pint warm 
water, add 1 pound sugar, 3 pints water, 1 teacup 
shredded pineapple and juice of 4 lemons. Stir all 
together and freeze. 

LEMON CREAM. 

One and one-half cups boiling water, stir 2 table- 
spoons corn starch, wet with water and juice of 1 
large lemon, add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar, boil five minutes, stirring all the time, then stir 
in the whites beaten stiff, form into small glasses and 
serve cold with whipped cream on top of each glass. 
This is a dainty dish. 



130 FANCY DESSKRTS 

TYFOSA DESSERT. 

One pint tyfosa put in dish, pour on 1 quart boiling 
water, enough of any kind of nuts to make a layer, 
and sliced bananas; let cool and serve. 

RAISIN SANDWICH. 

Finely chopped seeded raisins and English walnut 
meats mixed with the well-beaten white of an egg, 
slightly seasoned and flavored with a tiny bit ''of 
vanilla. Figs used in place of raisins will afford a 
variety. No sugar should be used with them. Use 
equal portions of fruit and nuts. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

One quart water, 4 tablespoons corn starch, 1 cup 
sugar, cook, add the juice of two or three lemons; 
pour this over five sliced oranges, beat the whites of 
two eggs, with a very little sugar, put on top ; serve 
with whipped cream. 

GRAPE JUICE FRAPPE. 

Boil 1 quart water, 2 cups sugar ten minutes, strain 
into can or freezer, when cold add 3 cups grape juice, 
the juice of 2 lemons, pack freezer, when half frozen 
remove dasher, set aside until time to serve. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

1-3 box gelatine dissolved in i/o cup milk, set in 
hot water until warm, 4 tablespoons powdered su- 
gar, whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, teaspoon vaniUa. 
Whip 1 pint cream, add gelatine, stir all together. 
Pour into mould lined with lady fingers and set on 
ice. 

ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts milk, let come to a boil, 2 cups sugar, 
2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons starch; beat 
all together and pour into the hot milk ; let it cook a 
little longer, cool and put in a pint of cream ; flavor 
to taste. Freeze. 



FANCY DESSERTS 131 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

One pint lemon juice, 1 quart sugar, 1 quart water, 
1 quart grated pineapple. After it begins to freeze 
put in the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
ICED CHOCOLATE. 

Put one heaping teaspoon cocoa to each half pint 
boiling water in double boiler, mix, cook five minutes, 
sweeten, remove from fire, when cold add half cup 
good cream, beat the whole until light, fill glasses half 
full cracked ice, pour over cocoa and serve. 
ITALIAN ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, 12 ounces pulverized sugar, juice 
of six oranges, 2 teaspoons orange extract, yolks of 8 
eggs, a pinch of salt. Freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Scald rind of one lemon in 1 quart of milk, % 
pint sugar, juice of 3 lemons, let stand over night 
(not necessary but better). Add milk when ready to 
freeze. No different if it curdle. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Stew 1 pound of prunes and pick fine, stir well 
with chopped nuts, add the well beaten whites of 4 
eggs, 1^2 cups granulated sugar. Bake in slow oven 
and serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT ICE. 

Squeeze enough fruit in a fruit press to make a 
pint of juice, add a pint each of water and sugar, pour 
the whole boiling hot on the whites of 3 eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth and whip the mixtur<^ thoroughly, 
when cool freeze in the usual manner. Red raspberry 
and currant make a fine flavor. 

FRUIT BLANC MANGE. 

Stew cherries, cranberries or raspberries, strain off 
the juice and sweeten it ; let boil in a bath and stir in 
com starch wet in cold water, 2 tablespoons starch for 
one pint juice, stir until cooked, mould, cool and eat 
with cream and sugar. 



132 FANCY DESSERTS 

FRUIT ICE. 

Grate finely flavored apples, make them very sweet 
and freeze. Pears, peaches or quinces grated fine, or 
stewed and run through a seive, then sweetened very 
sweet and frozen, are fine. 

ICE CREAM — ONE GALLON. 

One box gelatine dissolved in one quart hot milk 
strain and add 2 pounds sugar, yolk of 6 eggs well 
beaten, heat eggs, gelatine and sugar until eggs are 
cooked. Add 2 quarts cold milk, 1 quart sweet cream, 
whites of six eggs well beaten, flavor and freeze. 
NUT SHERBET. 

One cup sugar, juice of 2 lemons, put in double 
boiler and heat yolk of 6 eggs, cooked with eggs and 
sugar. Beat whites and put in slowly, then add 1 cup 
walnuts ; put in sherbet glasses and set to cool. Enough 
to serve ten. Put whole half nut on top of each dish. 
FRUIT SALAD. 

One cup hickorynut meats, 2 oranges, 2 bananas, 1 
can pineapple, cut in small pieces, fill sherbet cups 
half full with fruit, adding sugar to taste; fill with 
whipped cream. Delicious. 

NUT SALAD. 

One box gelatine, pour on II/2 quarts cold water, 
let this heat until it dissolves ; 1 can pine apples, turn 
oif the juice, add II/2 cups sugar, add to gelatine, 
heat, set away to cool, chop pineapple fine, 1% 
cups of any kind of nuts chopped fine, 1 pint whipped 
sweet cream, add gelatine when it begins to set. Take 
silver fork and mix nuts, cream and gelatine together. 
Keep in cool place, it will last several days. 
ICE CREAM — ONE GALLON. 

Three quarts milk, heat boiling hot, 1/2 cup flour 
stirred to a paste, IV2 cups sugar, pinch salt, after ad- 
ding flour cook a few minutes, then strain and set 
away to cool; when cool add 1 pint cream and flavor 
with lemon and vanilla. Freeze. 



/ 



FANCY DESSERTS 133 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Make a syrup by boiling 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water 
ten minutes, add one cup strong tea, 1 pint cherry 
juice, 1 pint strawberry juice, juice of 5 lemons, juice 
of 5 oranges, 1 can grated pineapple; let stand 20 
minutes, strain turn into a punch bowl over a piece of 
ice; add i^ pint candied cherries, 1% gallons water. 
This will serve 50 or 60 people. 

CHERRY TOITE. 

Drain the juice off one can of cherries and thicken 
it with 1 heaping tablespoon of corn starch. Return 
to the cherries adding one cupful of sugar. Line a 
deep pie tin with a rich puff paste ; pour the prepared 
cherries into this and bake. Beat the whites of 4 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i/^ cup 
chopped nuts; spread over the top and return to the 
oven and brown as slowly as possible. 
CURRANT, RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY WHISK. 

To 3 gills fruit juice, add 10 ounces crushed sugar, 
the juice of 1 lemon and 1% pints cream. Whisk till 
thick and serve in little glasses. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

Fill a dish with slices of bananas, oranges, pine- 
apple and white grapes, or any fruit desired. Make 
a jelly of 1 package of gelatine, 1 pint, cold water, 
juice of 2 lemons and enough pineapple juice to 
flavor it. Let stand 1 hour, then add 2 pints of sugar, 
2 pints boiling water, strain over the fruit, let it get 
cold and serve with whipped cream. 
LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Squeeze a dozen lemons, make the juice quite thick 
with white sugar, stir into it very slowly, 3 quarts of 
cream and freeze. Orange ice cream is prepared in 
the same way, using less sugar. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Rub 1 pint ripe strawberries through a sieve, add 
-1 pint cream, 4. ounces powdered sugar. Freeze. 



134 FANCY DESSERTS 

FRUIT DESSERT. 

To one 10c box jello, take IVs pints of boiling 
water, stir until dissolved and let stand until nearly 
cool ; add 3 sliced bananas and 2 oranges, or any kind 
of fruit, but this is most preferable with strawberry 
flavor. Very nice served with whipped cream. 
FRUIT SAIiAD. 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in 14 pint of cold water 20 
minutes; add 1 quart of boiling water, the juice of 
2 lemons and sugar to taste ; peel and cut into cubes 
2 large oranges, 2 bananas and a few candied cherries ; 
mix all together, pour into a mould, set on ice until 
it hardens ; to be eaten plain or with whipped cream 
as a dressing. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Pick over 2 quarts strawberries, squeeze through 
a cullender, add 2 teacups sugar, when the sugar is 
dissolved add 3 tablespoons gelatine, previously soaked 
in % cup tepid water. Place it on ice, stir it smooth 
and when it begins to set stir in 1 pint of cream, 
whipped, form into moulds and serve with whole 
strawberries around it. 

ORANGE ICE. 
Boil 114 cups sugar in 1 quart of water, skimming 
when necessary; when cold add juice of 14 dozen 
oranges; steep the rinds in a little water and strain 
into the rest; add the rind and juice of one lemon. 
Strain into freezer and freeze. 

PRUNE COMPO. 
One and one-half pounds prunes cooked, seed, chop 
fine, add 1 tablespoon sugar, whites of 2 eggs beaten 
to a froth, add to the prunes, stir well, bake 10 min- 
utes, then frost and brown in the oven. Serve cold 
with sweet cream. 

APPLE ICE. 
Grate, sweeten and freeze well-flavored apples, 
pears, peaches or quinces. Canned fruit may be 
mashed and prepared in the same way. 



FANCY DESSERTS 135 

SNOW SOUFFLE. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, dissolve 
more than half a box of gelatine in a little more than 
a pint of hot water. Two cups sugar and the juice of 
2 lemons ; when this is dissolved and cooled stir into it 
the-^ggs you have beaten, beat the whole together un- 
til it is white and stiff, mould and pour around it a 

soft custard. 

FKDZEN TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Scald cream and add equal parts milk ; sweeten and 
flavor. When partly frozen, add chopped, mixed nuts 
and 1 cup preserved cherries. 

WHIPPED CREAJVf. 

Place cream over ice until thoroughly chilled, and 
whip with an egg beater or whip churn until it froths. 
While whipping, place froth on a sieve, and return to 
bowl to be re-wliipped all that passes through. When 
cream is difficult to whip add to it and beat with it 
the white of an egg. Sweetened and flavored this is 
a choice dessert alone, but it may be served in various 
ways. Baked apples and fresh or preserved berries 
are delicious with it. Jelly-glasses, one-third full of 
jelly and filled up with cream make a very wholesome 
and delicious dessert. 

PUNCH. 

One pint of grape juice, % piiit sugar, the juice of 

2 lemons and 1 orange, or any fruit that might be 

desired. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak 2 tablespoons tapioca over night in just 
enough water to cover ; in the morning boil 1 quart of 
milk with the soaked tapioca by placing it in a tin can 
or a pail, set in water to boil ; add 2-3 cup of sugar, 
and a little salt ; beat the yolks of 3 eggs thoroughly, 
when the milk has boiled ten minutes stir in the yolks, 
remove from fire and stir rapidly for five minutes so 
it will not curdle. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, pour 



1^6 FANCY DESSERtS 

in a baking or pudding dish, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, pour over the cream, sift sugar 
over top and brown in oven. Serve cold . 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Scald 1 quart milk, beat 3 eggs, 5 tablespoons sweet 
chocolate powder, or breakfast cocoa, add enough 
v\'arm milk to make a paste. Rub until smooth, add 2 
cups sugar, and mix all together. When cold add 1 
teaspoon vanilla and freeze. 

A NOVEL DESERT. 

Cook 1 quart of cranberries in 11/2 cups of water, 
when berries are soft add 2 cups of white sugar, strain 
through cullender. Put a layer of cranberries in deep 
dish, then cover with layer of sliced bananas, and so 
on until this dish is full. Make a meringue with the 
whites of four eggs and rather more than the usual 
amount of sugar, add this to dish and brown in oven. 
It should be eaten cold. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. 

One quart good cream, 1 pint fresh raspberries, 
mash and rub the fruit through a fine sieve or strainer 
to extract the seeds, bring the cream to a boil (hav- 
ing reserved 1 pint for froth), and add to the berries 
while it remains hot, sweeten with powdered sugar to 
taste, let it become cold. Now raise cream, which has 
been reserved to a froth with beater, take off the froth 
and lay it on a sieve to drain ; fill dish or glasses with 
the cream and place froth on top. Very nice. Any 
kind of berries, jam or jelly is good, and can be used 
without straining. 

AMBROSIA. 

Peel 1 dozen oranges, slice, put a thick layer in a 
dish, cover with powdered sugar, have ready fresh 
grated cocoanut, put over the oranges and sugar al- 
ternately until the dish is full. Have cocoanut for 
the top. 






FANCY DESSERTS 137 

MAPLE ICE. 

Three cups maple syrup, yolks of 12 eggs, 21/2 

quarts cream ; beat yolks into cold syrup, bring . to 

boiling point, stirring constantly, let cool,. whip cream 

and add to syrup when perfectly cold, pack in ice and 

salt for 7 or 8 hours. If cream will not whip this will 

make a delicious plain maple cream. Cook syrup and 

eggs as above and cream and freeze. Sufficient for 

one gallon. 

STRAWBERRY FOAM. 

Take 1 quart strawberries, crush, sprinkle over l^ 

cup sugar, set in a cool place until time to serve. Beat 

2 eggs stiff, add 2 tablespoons sugar, stir into it the 

crushed berries. Serve decorated with large, ripe 

berries. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Three pints cream, 6 large pineapples, 2 pounds 
powdered sugar ; slice the pineapples thin, scatter the 
sugar between the slices, cover and let the fruit stand 
three hours, cut or chop up in the syrup, and strain 
through a hair sieve or double bag of course lace ; beat 
gradually into the cream and freeze as rapidly as 
possible ; reserve a few pieces of pineapple unsugared, 
cut into square bits, and stir through cream when half 
frozen, first a pint of well whipped cream and then the 
fruit. Peach ice cream may be made in the same 
way. 

One cup sugar, 5 tablespoons cream, 1 square un- 
sweetened chocolate, % pound marshmallows, vanilla 
to flavor. Heat sugar, cream and chocolate slowly to 
boiling. Boil hard five minutes, add tiny pinch salt. 
Stir a few minutes, until slightly cooled, pour over the 
marshmallows ; do not cut for five hours or the marsh- 
mallows will not cut smooth. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Pull marshmallows apart in as small pieces as you 
wish; put them in the oven until light; add chopped 
nuts and serve with whipped cream. 



138 MEMORANDA 



CONFECTIONERY 

"My mission in life is a sweet one, I claim, 

For the children's eyes brighten at hearing my name." 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Granulated sugar is preferable. 
Candy should not be stirred while boiling. 
Cream tartar should not be added until the syrup 
begins to boil. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, i^ cup butter, 
a little soda, boil till brittle. 

TAFFY. 

Two cups sugar, % tumbler water, 1 teaspoon vin- 
egar, l^ teaspoon cream tartar, butter size of a wal- 
nut, vanilla. 

CENTENNIAL DROPS. 

White of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth, 1/4 pound 
pulverized sugar, 14 teaspoon baking powder; flavor 
with lemon ; butter tins and drop with teaspoon about 
three inches apart. Bake in a slow oven and serve 
with ice cream. 

CREAM CANDY. 

White Part. White of 1 egg beaten to a stiff 
froth, 2 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, 
mix with pulverized sugar until you can mix like 
bread, then roll in thin cake. 

Yellow Part. Yolk of 1 egg well beaten, 2 table- 
spoons cream, 1 teaspoon vanilla, mix with pulverized 
sugar until you can mix like bread, and roll in thin 
cake ; lay one cake upon the other and cut in squares. 
If desired place nut meats on top of squares. 



140 CONFECTIONEEY 

PEANUT CRISPS. 

Three pounds sugar, 2-3 cup New Orleans molasses, 
1-3 cup butter, II/2 pounds shelled peanuts, 1 pint 
water, 1 ounce soda. Put molasses, sugar and water 
in kettle and cook until a spoonful dropped in water 
can be rolled in a firm ball ; add the nuts and boil five 
minutes longer; take from fire, add butter and stir 
slowly till melted, add soda, stir quickly and when it 
begins to rise pour in well buttered pans very thin. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two cups brown sugar, % cup boiling water, butter 
size " .1 -at; vanilla, pinch each of salt and soda. 

SALTED PEANUTS. 

Shell fresh roasted peanuts, remove the skins, have 
butter hot in skillet, put in peanuts and stir, sprinkle 
salt over them and stir until hot through. 

TAFFY CANDY. 

Three pounds sugar, i/^ pint cold water, let boil 
five minutes, add 2 tablespoons vinegar, butter size 
of hickory nut, boil, testing in cold water until it will 
click against the side of glass; do not stir nor scrape 
out cooking dish. Pour in buttered pan to cool. Pull 
sufficient and cut in size to suits^; Flavor. 
MAPLE CAND%. 

Four cups brown sugar, 1 cup rich milk or cream, 
butter size of an egg, 2 tablespoons vanilla, 2 cups 
chopped nuts. Let sugar and milk boil five minutes, 
add butter. When melted take off the fire, add vanilla 
and nuts, beat well till the bubbles have disappeared, 
pour into greased tins; when cool trace in squares. 
Very good. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, % cup sweet milk, butter size of 
a good walnut, flavor with vanilla, grate chocolate in 
and cook until it makes a soft ball when dropped in 
water ; pour on buttered plate and stir until hard. 



CONFECTIONERY 141 

CRACKERJACK. 

Two cups shelled peanuts, 1 cup hickorynut meats, 
^ cup walnut meats, 6 quarts corn popped, 2 cups 
sugar, 2 cups golden syrup. Mix corn and nuts to- 
gether. Cook sugar and syrup until it hairs; pour 
over corn and make into balls. 

POP CORN BALLS. 

Salt the corn when popped, take 2 cups New Or- 
leans molasses, 1 cup light brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, butter size of walnut, boil fifteen minutes, 
put in y^. teaspoon soda five minutes before done, pour 
over com and make into balls ; flour the hands. 
CRACKERJACK. 

Pop com, not putting on much lard or butter, make 
a syrup of 2 cups sugar, 1 cup baking molasses, butter 
the size of an ^'gg. Flavor. Pour over popped corn 
slowly, stirring constantly, and be sure to put enough 
syrup so it will stick together good, take out of pan 
you are stirring it in and pack in greased pan. Let 
cool before cutting. 

FRENCH CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup water, pinch cream tartar. 
Allow the mixture to boil without stirring until a drop 
falling from a fork will "spin a hair," or a small 
quantity dropped into a glass of water will form a 
soft ball easily worked with the fingers. Then remove 
to a cool place, carefully without shaking and when 
the fingers can be borne on the bottom of the sauce 
pan beat the syrup to a cream. Now take up as much 
of the cream as can be handled and work until smooth. 
You are now ready to form candies. Flavor. Color 
or leave white and mold into any shape. 
PEANUT CANDY. 

One cup white sugar, 1 cup chopped peanuts. Put 
the sugar into a smoking hot frying pan, stir until it 
dissolves, add the peanuts to and turn into a buttered 
dish at once. 



142 CONFECTIONERY 

HONEY CANDY. 

Four tablespoons honey, 1 pint white sugar, water 
enough to dissolve sugar, boil until brittle when drop- 
ped into cold water; when cooling, pull. 

MARSH3IALLOW FUDGE. 

One cup sugar, 5 tablespoons cream, 1 square un- 
sweetened chocolate, % pound marshmallows, vanilla 
to flavor. Heat sugar, cream and chocolate slowly 
to boiling. Boil hard five minutes, add tiny pinch salt. 
Stir a few minutes, until slightly cooled, pour over 
the marshmallows ; do not cut for five hours or marsh- 
mallows will not cut smooth. # 

ALMOND CANDY. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of sweet milk ; boil until it will crisp in water like 
molasses candy ; then add one and one-half teacup fuls 
of blanched almonds, perfectly dry. 




MEMORANDA 143 



.* 



^^"^ MEMORANDA 



Home Remedies and Household Hints 



Self possession is evidence of a clear brain. 

RECIPE FOR A HAPPY DAY. 

Take a little dash of. cold water, 

A little leaven of prayer, 

A little bit of sunshine gold 

Dissolved in morning air. 

Add to your meal some merriment, 

Add thought for kith and kin. 

And then, as a prime ingredient, 

A plenty of work thrown in. 

Flavor it all with essence of love 

And a dash of play. 

Let the dear old Book and a glance above 

Complete the well-spent day. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST. 

Thicken lemon juice with salt and rub on rust spot, 
place article in the sun ; two or three applications may 
be necessary. 

CROUP — Melt butter and molasses together and 
give until child vomits. Very easy and very sure. 

FOR ROUP IN CHICKENS— Hog's lard and sul- 
phur in equal parts, or dry sulphur blown down the 
fowl's throat. 

SALVE — Two tablespoons honey, 2 tablespoons 
linseed oil, 1 teaspoon turpentine, yolk of one egg, 
flour to thicken. 



146 HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

CLEANSING SORE THROAT— One-half teaspoon 
common salt, % teaspoon baking soda, 1 ounce glycer- 
ine, water enough to make 3 ounces. Gargle throat. 

Beat the white of an egg and add to lemonade; 
makes a delightful drink for invalids. 

TOOTH POWDER— One-half ounce Peruvian 
bark, 1 ounce orris bark, 14 ounce myrrh, 2 ounces 
pulverized chalk. 

PNEUMONIA — Take six onions, chop fine, put into 
a large spider over a hot fire; add vinegar and rye 
meal to form a thick paste, stir and simmer ten min- 
utes. Put into cotton bag, large enough to cover the 
lungs and apply as hot as the patient can bear. In 
about ten minutes change the poultice, continue re- 
heating poultice; in a few hours the patient will be 
out of danger. But continue until perspiration starts 
freely from the chest. Make two poultices. Also an 
excellent remedy for croup, when applied to the 
throat. 

DYSENTERY— One tablespoon rhubarb root, 1 
teaspoon baking soda, 1 teacup boiling water and a 
little peppermint. Dose : — One tablespoon three times 
a day. 

QUINSY — Tar spread on the throat and quite up 
under the ears; cover with a cloth and go to sleep, 
and wake up weU. Only a brown stain will remain; 
it is easily washed off and is sure relief. Recom- 
mended for diphtheria or scarlet fever. 

DR. M. HA]\IMOND gives it is his experience that 
in convulsions of children, to turn them upon the left 
side will cut short, like magic, the con^^llsions. Epi- 
leptics treated in the same way are always promptly 
relieved. 

TO STOP NOSE BLEEDING— Place a penny be- 
tween the upper lip and the teeth; hold there a few 
minutes. Never fails. 



HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 147 

TO MEND CHINA— Take a very thick solution of 
gum arabic in water, stir into it plaster of paris until 
the mixture becomes of the consistency of cream, ap- 
ply with a brush to the broken edges and join to- 
gether. In three days the article cannot be broken 
in the same place. 

FOR CRACKED LIPS— Cover with inside of egg 
lining. 

FOR ERYSIPELAS — Crush raw cranberries, ap- 
ply as poultice. 

RECIPE FOR QUARRELING — Take a root of 
sassafras and steep in a pint of water and put in a 
bottle and when your husband comes in to quarrel 
fill your mouth with it and hold until he goes away. 
A sure cure. 

BUFFALO BUGS— Take strips of red flannel, dip 
in liquid arsenic and lay around the edge of carpet. 

TO BEAUTIFY THE HAIR— Put 1 ounce of pul- 
verized sulphur into 1 quart of rain water, shake well 
every few hours, then pour liquid off and saturate the 
scalp every morning. Cures dandruff and falling out 
of hair. 

TO WASH WINDOWS— Two tablespoons turpen- 
tine in water. 

FOR COLIC — Give infants very warm water until 
they vomit. 

TO CLEAN TINWARE— After thoroughly wash- 
ing in hot. soap suds and wipe dry, then apply dry 
flour and rub with newspaper. 

FOR INFLAMED EYES — Scrape raw potatoes, 
apply as a poultice. Renew as it gets dry. 

REMEDY FOR SPRAINS— Take boneset and 
smart weed, equal parts, tincture in alcohol four 
hours, then strain and bottle for use. Bathe surface 
of sprain freely. 



148 HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOI^D HINTS 

TO REMOVE RUST — To remove rust from white 
garments soak them thoroughly in buttermilk. It will 
remove the rust and make them white as snow. 

RICE WATER — Two ounces rice, two quarts 
water and boil for an hour and a half, then add sugar 
and nutmeg to taste ; some prefer salt. An excellent 
drink in diarrhoea and dysentery, 

LIME WATER AND MILK— Take a clear, satu- 
rated lime water and fresh milk, each a wineglass full, 
and mix. Let a tablespoonful or less be taken at once. 
This will sometimes remain upon an irritable stomach 
which will retain nothing else. 

TAKE FIRE OUT OF BURNS— Pour hot water 
on a lump of white lime ; strain off the water and add 
linseed oil; shake well in a bottle and apply at once. 
This should be kept in every house for an emergency. 

EGG NOG — Beat the white of an egg to a stiff, dry 
froth, add 1 tablespoon sugar, 11/2 gills sweet milk 
and a grating of nutmeg. Serve at once. 

CURE FOR ALCOHOLISM— In the morning be- 
fore breakfast, an orange should be eaten, one about 
9 o'clock, one before dinner, one before supper and 
one before retiring; continue one week. The second 
week four oranges a day will be sufficient, the third 
week three, and the fourth week the tippler won't be 
able to bear the smell of alcohol. Try it. 

CHOLERA MIXTURE— One ounce tincture of 
opium, 1 ounce tincture rhubarb, 1 ounce tincture 
camphor. Excellent for summer complaints. Dose — 
Adults, 15 drops on a little sugar; children, 5 to 10 
drops. 

CEMENT FOR MARBLE— Take one pound gum 
arable, make into thick mucilige, add to it powdered 
plaster of paris II/2 pounds, five ounces quicklime, 
mix well; heat the marble and apply the mixture. 



HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 149 

FOR COUGH — Juice of one lemon, the same 
amount of glycerine, mixed. Dose — Adult, one tea- 
spoonful every twenty minutes until relieved. 

LINIMENT FOR RHEUMATISM— Take 1 pint 
good cider vinegar, add heaping teaspoon each of salt 
and pepper, boil down to half pint and use. 

INK STAINS — To remove ink stains, soak goods in 
buttermilk. 

DISINFECTANT— Chloride of lime, as well as be- 
ing a disinfectant, is useful to drive away rats from 
cellars. 

MUSTARD PLASTER— To make mustard plaster: 
Use no water, but mix the mustard with the white of 
an egg; the result will be a plaster which will draw 
perfectly, but which will not produce a blister. 

COUGH RECIPE — One pint molasses, 1 teaspoon 
oil peppermint, 8 drops oil tar, 2 tablespoons alcohol. 
Mix well and add 1 tablespoon ginger. 

GRASS STAINS may be removed from white ma- 
terial by washing the stained garment in spirits of 
camphor. 

FOR CROUP— Apply a cloth wrung out of cold 
water to the neck and chest, cover with dry cloth to 
exclude the air and put a bottle of hot water to the 
feet. 

CURE FOR SPRAINS— Make a poultice of clay 
and vinegar and bind on. 

POULTICE FOR A BOIL— Scrape castile soap 
into cream and steep them together till right for a 
salve. The best salve known for a boil at any stage. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS— To each pail of water add 
one quart fresh slacked lime and one pint common 
salt, mix well; fill a barrel half full of this fluid; 
put your eggs in it any time after June and they will 
keep for months. 

TO STOP HICCOUGHS— One tablespoonful 
quince juice. 



ISO HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

TAR SMOKE FOR DIPHTHERIA— Pour equal 
parts turpentine and liquid tar into a pan or cup and 
set fire to the mixture. A dense resinous smoke arises. 
The patient breaths it and is relieved. 

FOR TOOTHACHE OR PAIN IN THE FACE— 
Mix salt with yolk of an egg until about consistency of 
mustard; use same as mustard plaster. 

TO KEEP FLIES FROM HORSES— Take two 
or three handfuls of green walnut leaves, pour over 
two or three quarts of soft cool water; let stand one 
night; pour in kettle and boil fifteen minutes. When 
cold wet a sponge and before the horse goes out of 
the stable let those parts which are most irritated be 
washed over with the liquid. 

TO REMOVE KEROSENE SPOTS— Kerosene 
when spilled on a carpet can be readily removed by 
putting on Indian meal, then brushing out when it 
has lain a few hours. It may need more than one ap- 
plication if much has been spilled, but it will all come 
out by repeated application. 

COLD SORES— Cold sores are quickly relieved by 
applying boracic acid occasionally. 

RING WORM— Rub the spot with milk from milk- 
weed, which grows wild. Continue this a few days 
and the spot will disappear. 

CURE FOR TONSILITIS— Cut up lovage root 
and fry in lard. Apply as poultice. 

EAR ACHE — Roast together onions and tobacco 
and squeeze the juice, drop in the ear. 

TO CLEAN FURNITURE— A mixture of equal 
parts of linseed oil, vinegar and turpentine. 

SURE CURE FOR AGUE— Five cents' worth 
frankincense, crushed, one grated nutmeg put in thin 
muslin bag. To be worn over pit of stomach. 

WHEN PEELING ONIONS begin at the root end 
and peel upward and the onions will scarcely affect 
your eyes at all. 



HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 151 

WHEN MASHING POTATOES use hot milk, and 
if you have been in the habit of using cold you will 
be surprised at the difference in its lightness. 

SUEE CURE FOR SNAKE BITE— I have seen 
many people bitten, but have never kno^vn a case 
to prove fatal where this remedy was used. Procure 
the yolk of an egg and mix with enough salt to make 
a good, thick poultice, put the poultice on the bite and 
bandage tightly. Watch the solution and when it is 
full of poison it will change color and should be re- 
newed. 

CURE FOR FELON— A felon may be cured by 
tying the affected finger in a poultice pulverized rock 
salt and turpentine, renewing as the poultice becomes 
dry. Usually twenty-four hours' application of the 
above will cure the felon. 

BURNS — Apply butter immediately. It will pre- 
vent blistering and remove the fire and soreness. A 
remedy always at hand and easily applied. 

TO STOP HICCOUGHS— Put a few drops of 
good cider vinegar on a lump of sugar. Let dissolve 
in mouth. 

CHICKEN LICE— The best remedy for lice in 
poultry houses is to add one pound of concentrated 
lye to a boiler of soap suds and apply hot on the 
walls, floors and roofs of the houses. All lice and 
nits will then be destroyed. If the roosts are sus- 
pended by rods from the rafters and not allowed to 
touch the sides of the house there will be less trouble 
with lice. 

RHETOIATISM CURE— Five cents' worth nitre 
potassium, twenty cents' worth iodide potassium, in 
one pint water. Take one tablespoonful three times 
a day, before each meal. If followed as directed will 
cure without fail. 

FOR SPRAINS — Apply a poultice made of equal 
parts of salt and lard. This will give instant relief 
^nd reduce the swelling. There is nothing better. 



152 HOME REMEDIES AND HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

TO REMOVE MILDEW AND FRUIT STAINS— 
Put one ounce chloride of lime in a bowl, pour over 
it one pint of boiling water. Strain through a fine 
cloth. Add three pints cold water. Gather up the 
stained places and put into the water and let remain 
twelve hours. Rinse thoroughly and you will find the 
stains have disappeared. This is particularly success- 
±ul m removing peach stains. If the solution is 
strained and the cloth well rinsed there will be no 
harm done the fabric. 

BOILS AND FELONS— Take equal parts of honey 
or molasses and the white of an egg and enough flour 
to make a paste. Spread on cloth and apply. 

SUGAR CURED MEATS-Four ounces saltpeter, 
4 ounces pepper, 5 pounds salt, 200 pounds meat. 
Make a thick syrup of brown sugar and rub all over 
the meat, then apply the dry salt. This will keep 
the year round. 

CURING PORK OR OTHER MEAT— For IOC 
pounds, 1 quart New Orleans molasses, or 2 pounds 
brown sugar, 1 tablespoon pulverized saltpeter, IVo 
tablespoonfuls soda, dissolve in a little warm water 
when all is dissolved pour in cold water enough to 
cover your meat, then put in salt till it bears up an 
eg-g; pour over your meat, let stand five weeks, then 
take out and smoke if so desired. 




MEMORANDA 153 



154 MEMORANDA 



I 



INDEX 



Page 
BREAD. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 5 

Boston Brown Bread 5 

Bread 1,2 

Brown Bread 4 

Buns 5 

Cinnamon Buns 7 

Corn Bread 4,6 

Graham Biscuits witli Yeast.. 6 

Graham Bread 4 

Graham Loaf 3 

Johnny Cake 6 

Parker House Rolls 7 

Quick Way t© Make Bread ... 3 

Rolls 4 

Raised Biscuits 4 

Salt Rising Bread 3 

Sour Milk Biscuits 5 

Soft Ginger Bread 6 

Steamed Corn Bread 7 

Steamed Boston Brown Bread. 7 

Whole Wheat Bread 6 

BREAKFAST AND TEA 

DISHES. 

A Nice Breakfast Dish 120 

Banana Fritters 118 

Baking i*owder Pancakes 119 

Blanc-Mange 117 

Buckwheat Cakes 121 

Cheese Fondu 118 

Cheese Straws 117 

Chicken Omelet 117 

Cinnamon Rolls 119 

Corn Fritters 119 

Cream Puffs 121 

Croquettes of Odds and Ends. 120 

French Toast 117 

Fritters 118 

Gems 118 

Graham Gems 119, 120, 122 

Graham Griddle Cakes 122 

Griddle Cakes 118 

Hickorynut Macroons 118 

Lettuce Ham Sandwiches 119 

Little Pigs in Blankets 123 

Muffins 122 

Mush 120 



Page 

Pancakes 118 

Peanut Sandwiches 122 

Potato Pan Cakes 117 

Potato Dumplings 122 

Potato Souffle 120 

Rice Croquettes 119 

Waffles 118 

CAKES. 

Angel Cake 13 

Angel Food 21 

Blackberry Cake 24 

Black Cnocolate Cake 11 

Black Fruit Cake 16 

Boiled Icing 10 

Breaddough Cake 17 

Cake 26 

Cake Filling 18 

Caramel Cake 13 

Chocolate Cake 10, 23, 24 

Cheap Cake 26 

Cocoa Cake 25 

Coffee Cake 11, 24 

Cornstarch Cake 17 

Cream Icing 19 

Cream Puffs 16 

Cream Cake 10 

Devil's Cake 15, 21 

Devil's Food 19, 25 

Economical Cake 25 

Eggless Fruit Cake 13 

Everyday Fruit Cake 12 

Favorite Black Cake 11 

Feather Cake 17 

Filling for Cake 15 

Filling with Hickorynuts, for 

Layer Cake 17 

Fruit Cake 14 

Ginger Cake 22 

Gravel Cake 27 

Hickorynut Cake 14, 17 

Hickorynut Loaf Cake 15 

Icing 20 

Jam Cake 26 

Ladies' Cake 23 

Layer Cake 10, 11 

Lemon Jelly 23 

Lemon Sponge Cake 18 

Loaf Cake 21 



156 



INDEX 



Page 

Marble Cake 19, 23 

Marriage Cake 9 

Marshmallow Filling 27 

Metropolitan Cake 20 

Mixed Layer Cake 24 

Molasses Cake 11, 13, 20 

National Cake 22 

Nut Cake 21 

Old Fashjonpd Tea Cake 16 

Oronge Cake 22 

Pink and Whifp Cake 15 

Poor Man's Cake 12 

P'^rk Cake 20 

Queen Cwp Cake 12 

Railroad Sponge Cake 19 

Rocky Mountain Cake 20 

Roll Jelly Cake 12, 13, 18 

Scripture Cake 27 

Snow Hall Cake 11 

Spice CaVo 18, 19 

Sponge Cake 17, 22 

Sunshine Cake 16 

Useful Cake 22 

Wa termelon Cake 21 

White Cake 14, 16, 19 

White Fruit Cake 14 

White Layer Cake lO, 15 

White Mountain Cake 12 

"VNnite Perfection Layer Cake. 26 
Yeast Cake 12 

CANNING AND SPICED 
FRUITS. 

Canned Beets 127 

Canned Cherries .' ] ,' 126 

Canned Corn 125 

Canned Pie Plant 125 

Canned Pineapple 127 

Canned Strawberries 125 

Canned Strawberries Cold.... 126 

Canned String Beans 127 

Grapes 126 

Pickled Peaches 125, 127 

Rhubarb 126 

Spiced Apples . 126 

Spiced Cherries 125 

Spiced Currants 127 

Spiced Huckleberries 127 

Spiced Peaches 126 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Almond Candy 142 

Butter Scotch 139, 140 

Centennial Candy 139 

Cream Candy I39 

Cracker Jack 141 

French Cream Candy 141 

5;.udge 140 

Honey Candy 142 

Maple Candy *. 140 

Marshmallow 142 



Page 

Peanut Candy 140, 141 

Pop Corn Balls 141 

Salted Peanuts 140 

Suggestions 139 

Taffy 139 

Taffy Candy 140 

COOKIES AND DOUGH- 
NUTS. 

Aunt Betsey's Cookies 29 

Bill Cookies 33 

Boston Cookies 29 

Brown Sugar Cookies 31 

Cookies Without Eggs 32 

Christmas Cookies 31 

Cream Cookies 30 

Crullers 32 

Doughnuts 29, 32 

Drop Cookies 31 

Fried Cakes 33 

Fruit Cookies 30 

Ginger Cookies 29, 30, 31, 32 

Ginger Snaps 33. 

<T00d Ginger Cookies 30 

Hermits 33 

Hermit or Fruit Cookies ! 32 

Jumble Cookies 34 

Lemon Crackers 30 

McKinley Cookies 33 

Molasses Cookies 31 

Nut Cookies 30 

Spoon Crullers 31 

Sugar Cookies 31, 32 

White Cookies 29 

EGGS. 

Deviled Eggs 91 

Egg Omelet 92 

Egg Rings 92 

Eggs — Swiss Style 92 

IMckled Eggs 92 

I*oached Eggs 91 

Scrambled Eggs 91 

FANCY DESSERTS. 

Ambrosia 136 

A Novel Dessert 136 

Apple Ice 134 

Bavaria Cream 134 

Charlotte Russe 130 

Cherry Tarte 133 

Chocolate Ice Cream 136 

Fruit Ice 131, 132 

Fruit Blanc Mange 131 

Fruit Punch 133 

Fruit Salad 132, 134 

Fruit Dessert 134 

Frozen Tutti Frutti 135 

Grape Juice Frappe 130 

Heavenly Hash 133 

Ice Cream 130, 132 

Italian Orange Ice Cream..,. 131 



INDEX 



157 



Pago 

Iced Chocolate 131 

Lemon Ice 129 

Lemon Cream 129 

Lemon Sherbet 131 

Lemon Ice Cream 133 

Milk Sherbet 129 

Marshmallows 137 

Maple Ice 137 

Nut Sherbet 132 

Nut Salad 132 

Orange Float 130 

Orange Ice 134 

Orange Sherbet 129 

l*ineapple Ice 129, 131 

Pineapple Ice Cream 137 

Punch 135 

Prune Compo 134 

Prune Whip 130, 131 

Raisin Sandwich 130 

Raspberry Cream 136 

Snow Souffle 135 

Strawberry Foam 137 

Strawberry Ice Cream 135 

Tapioca Cream 135 

Tyfosa Dessert 130 

Whisk 133 

Whipped Cream 135 

FISH AXD OYSTERS. 

Baked Bass 85 

Baked White Fisn 86 

Boiled Bass 87 

Codfish Balls 86 

Creamed Codfish 86 

Creamed Oysters 88 

Escalloped Oysters 88 

Fish Balls 85 

Fried Oysters 88 

Oyster Omelet 88 

Oyster Pie 88 

Oyster Roast 88 

Pickled Oysters 87 

Salmon Loaf 85. 86 

Salmon Puffs 87 

To Fry Eels 87 

HOME REMEDIES. 

Boils and Felons 152 

Burns 151 

Buffalo Bugs 147 

Croup 145 

Cleansing Sore Throat 146 

Convulsions in Children 146 

Cure for Alcoholism 148 

Cholera Mixture 148 

Cement for Marble 148 

Cough Recipe 149 

Cure for Sprains 149 

Cure for Felon 151 

Cold Sores 150 

Cure for Tonsilitis 150 



Page 

Cure for Snake Bite 151 

Curing Pork or Other Meat. . .152 

Chicken Lice 151 

Disinfectant 149 

Dysentary 146 

Egg Nog 148 

Ear Ache 150 

For Croup 149 

For Cough 149 

For Tooth Ache 150 

For Mashing Potatoes 151 

For Sprains 151 

For Inflamed Eyes 147 

For Colic 147 

For Cracked Lips 147 

For Erysipelas 147 

For Roup in Chickens 145 

Grass Stains 149 

Ink Stains 149 

Lime Water and Milk 148 

Linament for Rheumatism. . .149 

Mustard Plaster 140 

Poultice for a Boil 149 

Pneumonia 146 

Quinsy .' 146 

Recipe for Quarreling 147 

Remedy for Sprains 147 

Rice Water 148 

Rheumatism Cure 151 

Ring Worm 150 

Sugar Cured Meats 152 

Sure Cure for Ague 150 

Salve 145 

Tar Smoke for Diphtheria. . .150 

Tooth Powder 146 

To Stop Nose Bleeding 146 

To Mend China 147 

To Beautify the Hair 147 

To Wash Windows 147 

To Clean Tinware 147 

To Remove Rust 145, 148 

Take PJre Out of Burns 148 

To Preserve Eggs 149 

To Stop Hiccoughs 149, 151 

To Keep Flies from Horses. . .150 
To Remove Kerosene Spots. . .150 

To Clean Furniture 150 

To Peel Onions 150 

To Remove Mildew and Fruit 
Stains 152 

MEATS. 

Beef Loaf 78 

Beef or Meat Balls 76 

Brain Cutlets 79 

Chicken Loaf 79 

Chicken Pie 76 

Creamed Chicken 78 

Delicious Fried Ham 82 

Dried Beef with Cream 80 

Flank Steak 81 

Fried Liver 83 



158 



INDEX 



Page 

Frogs, Fried 77 

Head Cheese 80 

Meats and Suitable Sauces ... 75 

Meat Balls 76 

Meat Cakes 75, 77 

Pigs Feet, Pickled 82 

Pot Roast of Beef 78 

Pressed Beef 78 

Roast Hare or Rabbit 82 

Roast Pigeon 79 

Roast Turkey, witli Oyster 

Dressing 78 

Smothered Beef Steak 76 

Squab Pot Pie 80 

Stuffed Heart 81 

Sweet Breads 77 

Toad in the Hole 77 

To Fry Steak 75 

To Fry Fresh Ham 77 

Tongue with Tomato Sauce . . 77 

To Roast Beef 79 

Veal Croquetts 76 

Veal Loaf 79 

Veal with Oysters 81 

PASTRY. 

Banana Pie 44, 45 

Buttermilk Pie 41 

Cherry Whang 42 

Cocoanut Pie 42 

Cherry Pie 40 

Chocolate Pie 42 

Cream Pie 38 

Crumb Pie 38 

Custard Pie 40 

Dried Peach Pie 37 

Elderberry Pie 44 

Good Pie Crust 41 

Lemon Pie 41, 42, 48, 45 

Mince Meat 45 

Mince Pie 43 

Mock Mince Pie 40, 44 

Mock Cream Pie 44 

Orange Cream Pie 38 

Orange Short Cake 41 

Peach Pie 40 

Pie Shells 45 

Pie Crust 45 

Pineapple Pie 39 

Pieplant Pie 39 

Plum Cobbler 39 

Pumpkin Pie 37, 44 

Ripe Currant Pie 41 

Raisin Pie 42 

Rhubarb Pie 37 

Shoo Fly Pie 43 

Short Cake 45 

Southern Tomato Pie 37 

Strawberry Short Cake 38, 45 

Transparent Pie 39 

Vinegar Mince Pie 44 



Page 
PICKLES, CHILI SAUCE 
AND CATSUP. 

Chili Sauce 104 

Chowder 106 

Chow Chow 104, 107 

Cucumber Mangoes 105 

Cucumber Pickles 105 106 

Dill Pickles 108 

French Mustard 107 

French Pickles 105 

Grape Catsup 105 

Green Tomato Sauce 103 

Mixed Pickles 103, 106 

Mixed Mustard Pickles 107 

Mustard Pickles 103 

Pickles in Grape Leaves .... 108 

Pickled Onions 106 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles. . 104, 108 

Sweet Relish 106 

Tomato Catsup •. 104 

PRESERVES AND 
JELLIES. 

Cherry Preserves 113 

Currant Jam 112 

Cranberry Jelly 114 

Cherry Sunshine 115 

Frost Jelly 113 

General Rules for Making 

Jelly Ill 

Grape Jelly Ill 

How to Preserve a Husband. 112 

Lemon Jelly 112, 113 

Orange Jam 112 

Pineapple Preserves 114 

Preserved Pears 113 

Preserved Watermelon or 

Citron 114 

Quince Honey 112 

Raspberry Jelly Ill 

Strawberry Sun Preserves. . . .112 
Transcendent Crabapple Jelly. Ill 

Tomato Jelly 113 

Tomato Preserves 114 

Strawberry and Rhubarb Jam. 114 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Pudding 51 

Apple Roley Poley 49 

Bird Nest Pudding 47 

Cheese Custard 53 

Cherry Pudding 47, 52 

Cottage Pudding 51 

Cream of Cocoanut Pudding.. 49 

Crow Nest Pudding 48 

Delicate Pudding 48 

English Plum Pudding 51 

Fig Pudding 49, 50 

Kiss Pudding 48 



INDKX 



159 



Page 

Light Pudding 51 

Orange Pudding 53 

Orange Roley Poley 50 

Pudding 47, 51 

Persimmon Pudding 52 

Pineapple Pudding 50, 52 

Raisin PufEs 52 

Rice Custard 52 

Sago and Apple Pudding 49 

Small Plum Pudding 53 

Snow Pudding 54 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding. . 50 

Steamed I nddlng 53 

Suet Pudding 53, 54 

Tapioca Pudding , 48, 51 

SALADS. 

Asparagus SsJad 100 

Bean Salad 96 

Bean and Onion Salad 95 

Beet Salad 98 

Cabbage Salad 99 

Cauliflower and Beet Salad. . .100 

Chicken Salad 95, 96 

Combination Salad 101 

Cream Dressing for Cold Slaw. 97 

Dutch Cheese Salad 98 

Egg Salad 96 

Hot Slaw 99 

Lettuce Salad 99 

Lobster Salad 100 

Mayonnaise Dressing With- 
out Oil 98 

Mayonnaise Dressing 101 

Mustard Dressing 97 

Nut Salad 96 

Oyster Salad 99 

Potato Salad 97, 98 

Pea Salad 98 

Salad Dressing for Cabbage,. 95 

Salad Dressing 97 

Salmon Salad 97, 98 

Veal Salad 98 

Waldorf Salad 96 

Winter Salad 100 

SOUPS. 

Celery Soup 59 

Cream of Chicken Soup 60 

Cream of Tomato Soup 59 

Green Turtle Soup 59 

Noodle Soup 57 

Ox Tail Soup 60 



Page 

Oyster Soup 58 

Plain Oyster Soup 57 

Potato Soup 58 

Salmon Soup 58 

Stock for Soup 57 

Squirrel Soup 59 

Tomato Soup 58 

Vegetable Soup 57 

Vermicelli Soup 58 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 64 

Baked Macaroni 67 

Baked Squash 71 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 68 

Baked Tomatoes 64 

Beet Greens 71 

Boston Baked Beans 64, 66 

Cabbage with Cream 68 

Cooked Cauliflower 63 

Cooked Rice 72 

Com Oysters 64 

Fried Egg Plant 66 

Fried Potatoes with Eggs 68 

Fried Salsify 68 

Corn, to Fry 65 

Light Dumplings 66 

Lima and Kidney Beans 67 

Maccaroni and Cheese 64 

Maccaroni and Tomatoes .... 65 

Mushrooms 66 

New Potatoes and Cream .... 67 

Onions Stewed 72 

Parsnips 63 

Plum Dumplings 65 

Potato Fillets 69 

Potato Pot Pie 63 

Saratoga Chips 64 

Sauer Kraut 67 

Scalloped Potatoes 66, 71 

Scalloped Corn 72 

Scalloped Onions 72 

Spaghetti 65 

Spinach 70 

String Beans 6i* 

Stewed Pumpkin 69 

Stewed Tomatoes 71 

Succotash 65 

Sweet Potatoes 69 

To Boil Rice 70 

Tomatoes 67 

Turnips 72 

Vegetable Hash 70 

Vegetable Oysters 63 



