77/S 



I 



,y 



TX 715 
.11162 
Copy 1 




IslV 




HIGH LIVING 

RECIPES FROM SOUTHERN CLIMES 
COMPILED BY L. L. McLAREN 

PREFACE BY EDWARD H. HAMILTON 
DECORATIONS BY SPENCER WRIGHT 




PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 
SAN FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK 





A_ 



X 



} LiKWAHV of C0NGR5:SS J 

I MG f.j 190.^ I 
copyright Entry 1 

cuss A ;.;xc., No. I 

C>.Jii \ b. 






i^ote to tfje 
^Econb Cbttion 

Although the conditions and needs 
which called into existence the first 
edition as expressed in the preface 
herein reprinted have not entirely dis- 
appeared, other needs and wider 
sympathies have since been created, 
arising from the disaster which befell 
San Francisco in 1906. Accordingly 
the future proceeds of the sales of 
"High Living" will be distributed 
through the agency of the willing 
circle of Kings Daughters. 



Copyright, 1904 

by L. L. McLaren 

Copyright, 1907 

by Paul Elder and Company 



The Tomoye Press 



By EDWARD H. HAMILTON 




The dictum went out that the sheep were to be parted from the goats ; and the 
goats were sent to Telegraph Hill. There were many shepherds for the sheep. They 
were led into the green pastures beside the still waters. At night their folds were 
watched and tended. 

But the goats foraged for themselves. They roamed the rough places. They 
browsed upon the tin cans and detritus of life. There were none to stroke them or call 
them soft names. They made their bed upon the long, hard road. They lived a 
strained and rugged life. They made a comrade of Necessity rather than Ambition. 
But they lived. 

It was the kids that died. They were not fitted for the chill nights and the buffet- 
ings. If they grew, they were gnarled and twisted. They lay down in squalor, and 
they arose in misery. But the sheep were tended and the world ran on. 

Then some young women took notice of this unconsidered hillside where the 
goats browsed gloomily, and where the kids were gaunt and strange. These were 
young women of the pleasant ways of life. They could have gone on in the flower- 
bordered paths, hearing the lark sing and stringing the daisy-chains. But they left the 
pleasaunces and went up into the hard places, where the rough goats were, and the 
strange, white kids. 

Out of their devotion was born the Telegraph Hill Neighborhood Association. 
They made a small beginning, but it was a good beginning. There were ten thousand 
discouragements. But those young women put down those discouragements with cour- 
age. They established their association and rooted it in the rocks of the Hill. 

Where there was sickness they sent a doctor and a nurse, a flower and a smile. 
Where there was discouragement and waywardness they extended a helping hand. 
Where there was death they sent consolation. They gave fresh air to children 
who failed and faded in close, untidy rooms. They set up Education, where 
Ignorance had ruled. 

In other words, they have their free dispensary, their doctors and 
their nurses ; they have girls' clubs, where they teach sewing and 






housework, boys* clubs, where the boys are taught to carve wood and work in leather 
and Interest themselves in wholesome things ; they have mothers' clubs, where those 
who will can learn the rudiments of nursing ; they have a kitchen garden, and a hun- 
dred pleasant ways of doing good. 

They are non-sectarian. 

Now, these young women need money to carry on their work. One of their 
ways of raising this money is the sale of the book of recipes for which my stumbling 
words are to make a lame preface. Many of the recipes have been collected from 
among the peoples of far-flung lands who live upon the Hill. Necessity has taught them 
how to cook many things that would be the despair of your servant of the kitchen or 
your chef at the club. There is a tang of high living about these recipes — of the liv- 
ing of peoples who dwell upon a hill. 

If you buy this book you will help the work of the Telegraph Hill Neighborhood 
Association. You will make the soft hand reach farther. You will send more nurses 
and doctors to the beds of pain. You will help Education and Hopefulness in the end- 
less struggle with Ignorance and Weakness. You will bring the browns and reds into 
cheeks now pale. You will let Happiness dance in eyes where Sorrow now sits and 
glooms. You will put one more flower on a dead child's grave. 

Don't you think it worth your while to buy the book ? 

It seems to me there is no nobler, no greater work than that which these young 
women and girls are doing and have done. When I think of it there comes to me out 
of the long ago a something learned beside a woman's knee — the same sort of woman 
as the ones who now are deifying American womanhood on Telegraph Hill. As I recall 
that something now it was the story of a voice that said : 

" Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye 
have done it unto me." 





Classification 




Soups 
Shell Fish 

Fish 
Fish Sauces 

Eggs 

Entrees 

Chicken 

Macaroni, Rice, Etc. 

Vegetables 

Salads 

Desserts 

Candies 

Breads 

Cakes 

Punches 





BARCELONA OLLA — Soak one cupful of Italian peas with one pound of cod- 
fish overnight in cold water. Take out the fish and squeeze the peas out of their skins. 
Boil two pounds of soup meat in four quarts of water, one onion and four cloves of gar- 
lic. Skin and add two and a half dozen of string beans, the peas, a piece of cabbage, 
one turnip, two carrots, one-quarter pound of ham, one-eighth pound salt pork, and boil 
slowly. When nearly done add some small peeled potatoes and one cheroza (cauined 
sausage), and a roll of meat prepared as follows : Sprinkle one pound of chopped beef 
with one teaspoonful chopped parsley and one clove of chopped garlic, one teaspoonful 
flour and one egg. Mix well and form into a roll. Put carefully into the soup and 
boil slowly for one hour. Strain off the soup, thicken with macaroni. Place the meat 
roll in a platter, pile the vegetables neatly around it, and pour over the sauce. 

HINDUSTANI SOUP STOCK — Into a saucepan put two to three pounds of 
knuckle of veal, or neck of mutton, six dozen button onions, one large bunch of celery, 
chopped, a ham bone or slice of ham, pepper and salt. Cover with two quarts of water 
and simmer until reduced to one and one-half quarts. Strain through piece of muslin 
and put in cool place. 

HINDUSTANI COCOANUT SOUP — Grate the white meat of two cocoa- 
nuts, mix with one and one-half quarts of prepared stock, add two blades of mace, salt- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, salt and pepper. Simmer about one-half hour. Strain 
carefully through muslin. Make a paste of the beaten yolks of two eggs, juice of one 
lemon. Add enough flour to make a thin batter. Add this gradually to soup, stirring 
constantly. Serve with a dish of boiled rice. 




BOUILLABAISSE — Cut in pieces two and a half inches square one-half 

pound each of six different kinds of fish, such as sea-bass, halibut, rock-cod, sole, 

flounder, and add any shell fish in season. Chop one large onion and one 

clove of garlic, and fry in one cupful of olive oil until transparent. Add 

three pounds of fish bones and trimmings of any cheap inferior fish, cover 

well with water and one cupful of white wine, two bay leaves, three 





cloves and whole peppers and two blades of mace, and simmer twenty-five minutes. 
Strain cind squeeze through a cloth until every drop of the juice is extracted. To this 
broth add one cupful of white wine, one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, juice of a 
lemon and a pinch of Spanish saffron, and stew the fish in it until tender ; then pour it 
into a tureen in which has been put several slices of toasted bread, and serve. 

CHESTNUT SOUP — Boil one quart of large Italian chestnuts for twenty 
minutes. Take off the shells and thin brown skin. Put into a saucepan with enough 
boiling water to cover them. Add a teaspoonful of salt and a piece of lemon rind. 
When soft, rub through a sieve. Then pour over them, stirring all the time, two quarts 
of good veal or chicken broth, one wineglassful of cream and a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Bring to a boil. Serve very hot. This will be sufficient for eight 
persons. 

LOBSTER SOUP — Pick the meat from a two-pound lobster, chop fine and 
pound in a mortar, adding from time to time a little milk or cream. When perfectly 
smooth, add salt and a little cayenne. Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
and bind with egg. Fry the balls in butter. Mix the rest of the lobster with two 
quarts of milk and rub through a sieve. Put in a saucepan and simmer for ten minutes. 
Add two ounces of fresh butter and stir until smooth. Place the balls in a tureen, 
pour over the soup, and serve. 




BISQUE D'ECREVISSES — Clean carefully twenty ecrevisses. Into a sauce- 
pan put one quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, cayenne, a small onion, a carrot, a sprig 
of celery, all finely cut, and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Then add the 
ecrevisses and boil for about five minutes. Take them out and remove the shells. 
These must be put through a meat-chopper and pounded in a mortar with a little 
butter. Put this paste into a saucepan with a cupful of the liquor in which 
the ecrevisses have boiled, one quart of bouillon or milk, one-half glassful of 
white wine, and one-half cupful of bread disks which have been toasted. 
Simmer together a half-hour and then pass through a sieve. Put back on 






the stove and stir with a wooden spoon until it comes to a boil. Add the ecrevisses and 
a small piece of butter and serve as soon as the butter has melted. When done it 
should be of the consistency of cream. 

CHICKEN SAMBA YON — Have ready one quart of strong chicken broth 
from which the grease has been carefully removed. Beat well the yolks of eight eggs ; 
put in a double boiler with the broth and stir until the mixture thickens. Serve in bouillon 
cups with toasted crackers. 

PEANUT BISQUE — Remove the browTi skin from one pint of peanuts ; chop 
very fine, add one quart of veal or chicken stock and simmer until tender. Rub through 
a puree sieve, adding a little milk from time to time. Season with salt and pepper, and 
add enough beet juice or pink coloring paste to give a good tint. Serve with peanut 
crackers which have been toasted in the oven. 

HINDUSTANI CHICKEN BROTH (For Invalids) — Cut up an old fowl 
jmd simmer gently with three pints of water, one sliced onion, bunch of parsley, two 
cloves and one pepper, until it falls to pieces. Strain, and when cold remove all the 
grease. Mix one tablespoonful of arrowroot to a paste Math a little of the broth and 
pour over it slowly, stirring all the time, one pint of the hot chicken broth. Boil for a few 
minutes, and serve. 

CASUELA (National Dish of Chile) — This soup can be made of chicken or 
lamb ; if of chicken, cut up the fowl as for fricassee — if of lamb, the loin chops are used. 
Cook the meat or chicken in boiling water until tender, then strain it from the broth and 
put in another saucepan in which a tablespoonful of red lard (see page 32) has been 
heated. Add to this four small onions quartered, four potatoes cut in eighths, and 
a piece of pumpkin about four inches square cut in pieces, two tablespoonfuls of 
rice, a few peas and string beans and, when in season, two ears of corn cut in 
small sections, a little thyme, a few cumin seeds, parsley, salt and pepper. 
Over all of this pour the strained broth in which the meat was boiled 

3 






and simmer for an hour. Separate an egg and put the yolk in the bottom of a tureen 
and stir the white into the boiling broth, then pour all into the tureen, and serve. 

SPAGHETTI SOUP — Boil two pounds of beef, cut as for beef tea, and a 
slice of ham, in two quarts of water. When it has cooked for two hours add one cup- 
ful of white beans, previously boiled, two sliced onions, four chopped Spanish red pep- 
pers, one-half lemon sliced. Simmer all together until everything is soft, then mash 
through a colander. Add salt and one-half pound of spaghetti, and thicken with one 
tablespoonful of butter well mixed with one-half tablespoonful of flour. Simmer until 
the spaghetti is tender, then serve. 

PIMIENTO BISQUE — Boil six large, sweet red peppers until tender. Remove 
skin and seeds and rub through a colander with a few spoonfuls of the water in which 
they were boiled. Boil one-half cupful of rice in three pints of white stock or milk in 
double boiler until perfectly soft, and then rub through a sieve. Add the pepper pulp, 
one teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful salt, and season highly with Tabasco 
sauce. Bring to a boil, remove from stove and stir in slowly one-half cupful of thick 
cream, mixed with the yolk of two eggs. Serve with croutons. If fresh peppers are out 
of season, pimiento morrones (canned peppers) can be used. 

GUMBO FILE — Joint a fowl and cut into pieces an inch square ; cut in dice 
one-half pound of lean ham. Slice a large onion and two or three green peppers, and 
fry lightly in two tablespoonfuls of lard. Add the chicken and ham which have been 
dredged with flour, cover and stew for about five minutes ; when nicely browned add 
two and one-half quarts of boiling water and simmer till the meat is tender. Now add 
fifty oysters and their liquor, and one teaspoonful of kitchen-bouquet, salt and pepper 
to taste. Bring to a boil and stir in two tablespoonfuls of the file powder. It should 
be of a ropy consistency, and should not be allowed to stand. If it boils after 
the file has been added it will be ruined. 

COCIDO OR OLLA PODRIDA (Madrid) — Put in a soup 
kettle one and one-half pounds each of mutton, veal, garbanzos (chick 





peas), one slice of thin, raw ham, pieces of any kind of game or poultry, raw or cooked, and 
one-half pound of pork. Cover with a gallon of water ; add four ounces of salt and three 
pepper pods, one clove of garlic, and bring to a boil. Skim and cook slowly until the meat is 
almost tender, then draw off enough of the broth for soup and one pint besides for the sauce. 
Have ready one-half cupful each of summer vegetables (excepting cabbage), peas, Lima 
beans, squash, onions, string beans, corn, etc., and drop them into the pot to boil for 
twenty-five minutes. Five minutes before serving add a piece of chorizo or black sausage. 
Place the meat neatly on a large platter and surround with the vegetables and serve with 
the following sauce : 

Sauce — Stew and strain three large tomatoes, add one cupful of broth, a few 
cumin seeds, salt, pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. Bring to a boil, and serve. 

ONION SOUP OF NORTHERN ITALY— Cut three or four large onions 
in thin slices and fry until transparent, in one-half cupful of butter ; simmer gently for 
nearly an hour. Pour over a quart of rich, clear stock or milk, and bring to a boil. Have 
ready a hot tureen in which have been placed two or three slices of bread toasted a golden 
brown. On this pour the soup; add half a cupful of grated Parmesan or Gruyere 
cheese, and serve. 







CANAPE LORENZO — Chop a medium-sized shallot, fry without coloring in 
two ounces of butter ; add one tablespoonful of flour, and in one minute one pint of 
cream. When hot add one pint of crab meat, salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and 
bring to a boil. Cut bread one-quarter of an inch thick into round pieces and toast on 
one side only. Cover the toasted side with the crab and spread with a thick layer of 
butter prepared as follows : Mix well together one-quarter pound butter and one-half 
pound of grated cheese, and powder with paprika. Put your canapes on a buttered 
dish, and color in the oven. 

CRAB GUMBO — Clean and pick the meat from two large California crabs, 
bemg careful not to have the pieces too small. This will be enough for eight persons. 
In using the Eastern crab, which is much smaller, four times as many will be required. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and a dash of cayenne. Fry two good-sized onions in a 
large tablespoonful of lard, until transparent. Add four large tomatoes, skinned, and a 
sliced sweet green pepper from which the seeds have been taken, and a slice of ham 
cut in dice. Cover with three quarts of boiling water and simmer for one-half hour. 
Then add two pounds of young okra, from which the stems have been cut and sliced 
into inch lengths ; add the crab meat. Simmer until tender and gelatinous ; add a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour, and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Bring 
to a boil and serve with nee. 




SOFT-SHELL CRABS A LA CREOLE — Clean six soft-shell crabs and 

dredge well with flour ; drop them into a large pot containing one-half cupful of boiling 

lard, one clove of garlic, one large tomato cut up and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen 

bouquet. When the crabs have cooked for five minutes, add about one quart of 

boiling water ; let this stew for at least an hour. Now add one pound of picked 

shrimps, also well rolled in flour, and salt to taste. Cook this twenty minutes, 

then season with the following : One-half gill of olive oil, one sliced lemon, 

one teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire 

sauce, one teaspoonful of pepper sauce, a few mixed spices, and one 

half pint of claret. Beat this all together and stir into the broth. 

6 






Let this cook until the gravy is quite thick, one-half hour being usually enough. Last, 
drop in one dozen large oysters and cook for five minutes. Serve w^ith toasted crackers. 

SHRIMP GUMBO — Shrimp gumbo is made in the same way as the crab 
gumbo, except that you substitute one pound of picked shrimps for the crab, and use 
only two large tomatoes. 

CRAB JAMBALAYA — Slice two onions and one clove of garlic very fine and 
fry until transparent in two tablespoonfuls of butter ; add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour and cook for two minutes. Then add three large tomatoes, which have been 
skinned, and one chopped green pepper ; simmer for fifteen minutes. Add two quarts 
of stock and, when it has come to a boil, the meat of two large crabs (about one pint), 
and one cupful of well-washed rice. Boil for one-half hour longer, and serve hot. 

CRAB SOUFFLE — Make pint of rich cream sauce, add the yolks of three 
eggs, and beat well, then a dash of cayenne and a cupful of grated New York cheese ; 
now add one pint of crab meat, finely picked ; then fold in the whites of the eggs, well 
beaten, pour into a baking-dish and bake in a quick oven. 

SOFT-SHELL CRAB AS PREPARED IN AN ITALIAN MONAS- 
TERY — Wash carefully six live soft-shell crabs and throw them into a bowl containing 
one pint of milk and three beaten eggs. Let them stand until they have consumed the 
liquid, then roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in boiling lard. When done, serve with 
bunches of fried parsley. 

OYSTER BUNDLES — Cut nice, even slices of the breast of either boiled or 
roast turkey ; spread over each piece a thin slice of boneless bacon, and put on top 
of each piece of bacon a large oyster ; roll up each slice of turkey, with the bacon 
and oyster inside so as to form a little bundle, tie each of these securely, place 
in a baking-pan and bake them long enough to cook the bacon, basting fre- 
quently with melted butter. Serve in a dish garnished with parsley. 
Rich, brown gravy should be served with these bundles. 





CLAMS AND RICE — Chop fine one onion and a small piece of ham or 
pork, add a little Spanish saffron water, a bruised clove of garlic and one cupful of toma- 
toes ; stew all together for a few minutes, then add a pint of well-scrubbed small clams, 
still in the shell ; steam with the dish tightly covered for a half-hour, then add one cupful 
of well-washed rice and about one pint of water. Season with salt and cook until the 
rice is done. 

LOBSTER A LA CARDINAL — Make a pint of cream sauce, using either 
white stock, fish stock or cream. To this add the yolks of two eggs, the juice of one 
lemon and a little carmine for coloring. Then add, little by little, one-fourth of a pound 
of butter. Cut the flesh of a two-pound lobster into cubes, and add it to the sauce. 
Have ready a buttered mold, line it with one inch of boiled rice, fill with the lobster, 
cover with rice, and steam for one-half hour. When done, garnish with broiled tomatoes, 
and serve. 

SHRIMP FRITTERS — Make a batter of three well-beaten eggs, a pinch of 
salt, one-quarter cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter. Chop slightly with 
a silver knife one-half pound of picked shrimps, and stir into the mixture, adding enough 
stale bread crumbs to make a stiff batter. Drop by the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry 
a light brown. Drain on paper and serve hot, with a rich cream sauce which has been 
colored with a little tomato or anchovy sauce. 






PLANKED SMELTS — Butter a hickory or oak fish plank quite generously; 
place the cleaned and seasoned smelts, upon which lemon juice has been squeezed, on 
the plank; arrange the smelts in the form of a large fish, and put plenty of butter on 
them ; garnish with mashed potato roses (made with pastry bag and tube), sprinkled 
with bits of butter and finely chopped parsley ; put plank in oven and bake until pota- 
toes are browned slightly. Before bringing plank to the table, place sliced cucumbers 
and tomatoes, dressed with oil and vinegar, between the roses. 

ESCABECHE — Parboil two pounds of any white, firm fish, cut in fillets ; place 
them in a salad bowl and pour over three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, bits of orange peel cut thin, one teaspoonful 
onion juice, two bay leaves, one sliced green pepper, and a sprig of thyme ; mix all well 
and let stand several hours before serving. Garnish with sliced orange. 

FLOUNDERS A LA MAJOUEZ — Place the fish in a baking-dish of fire- 
proof ware, with a large tumbler of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
teaspoonful of salt ; put in a hot oven and cook until done ; pour off the gravy and add 
the yolks of three eggs which have been beaten into a pint of cream. Add a dash 
of cayenne, simmer (not boil) for two minutes, pour over the fish, and serve. 




FISH COURT-BOUILLON — Fry one large onion, thinly sliced, in a table- 
spoonful of lard. When transparent add one tablespoonful of flour and cook for two 
minutes ; then add one-half can of tomatoes (or four large, fresh ones), one large cupful 
of boiling water, the same of claret, one tablespoonful of butter, cayenne and salt to taste. 
Cut either striped bass, halibut or barracuda in pieces large enough for one portion 
and simmer in the court-bouillon until tender. Place the fish on pieces of dry toast 
and cover with the sauce. Garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve very hot. 



STEWED FISH — Slice one large onion and cook without browTi- 
ing in two or three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When transparent, add 
two pounds of any kind of white fish, cut in pieces. Add salt and 





cayenne, and cover with water. Simmer from twenty to thirty minutes. Beat together 
the yolks of twelve eggs ; add the juice of two lemons and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Stir into this very slowly some of the hot fish broth and a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley. Pour this over the fish and simmer until the sauce thickens. Be careful not to boil 
it, as the sauce would curdle. 

BAKED HALIBUT — Put slices of halibut into a baking-dish; add a little 
white wine and water, small pieces of butter and salt and a very little cayenne. Place 
in the oven and bake in a fire-proof baking-dish. For the sauce, blanch some finely 
chopped young onions, put them in a saucepan with an equal amount of shrimps, add a 
cupful of white wine and same of water, salt and cayenne, a tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce and a lemon cut in thin slices. Cook gently for ten minutes, then add a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in a little flour. Bring to a boil, remove from fire and stir 
in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

TURBAN OF FISH — Take one pound of boiled striped bass or halibut and 
rub it through a colander; add one cupful of bread crumbs which have been soaked in 
milk and drained as dry as possible, one-half cupful of thick cream, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a 
pinch of mace and a dash of cayenne. Then fold in the beaten whites of four eggs, 
turn into a turban mold, and steam for twenty minutes. Serve as hot as possible, and fill 
in the center with green peas. Pour around the form a rich cream sauce, well flavored 
with anchovy sauce. 




FISH A LA GUAYMAS — Cut any firm, white fish into three slices three 

inches square ; marinate for two minutes in one tablespoonful of olive oil, one-half 

tablespoonful of vinegar, a few drops of onion juice, salt and pepper. Spread each 

slice with some of the pulp of red sweet peppers (boiled and rubbed through a 

colander), and a spoonful of grated cheese, mashed to a paste with the yolk 

of an egg. Roll and tie with a thread, dip into a batter, and fry in hot 

lard until browTi. Serve with a Spanish sauce. 





SOLE NEAPOLITAN — Clean a fine sole, season with salt and pepper, and 
place in a well-buttered, fire-proof platter, dark side down. Put into the dish one table- 
spoonful of butter, mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. Chop fine one white onion, one 
shcJlot, a little chives, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one tablespoonful of dried 
mushrooms, which have been soaked in one cupful of boiling water for one hour, and 
then chopped. Put into a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter. When melted, add 
the above seasonings and a few drops of kitchen bouquet. Cook for two or three min- 
utes, then add one cupful of white wine and a few spoonfuls of the mushroom liquor, 
and boil ten minutes. Pour this over the fish, and bake about fifteen minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve in the same dish. 

MEXICAN COD — Fry a clove of chopped garlic in three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil for a minute, then add one pound of potatoes which have been peeled and cut 
in small pieces, and fry brown. Then add one pound of picked codfish (which has 
been soaked in water overnight), one can of strained tomatoes, a little marjoram, one 
cupful of vinegar, and the pulp of four large, sweet red peppers, which have been 
soaked and mashed through a colander. Cook slowly for two hours. 







SPANISH SAUCE — Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, add two 
ounces of flour, and cook until brown. Stir in slowly one pint of bouillon, one and a 
half ounces of lean ham, one carrot, onion, stick of celery cut up, two gloves and bay 
leaves, pmch of salt and cayenne, and stir until it begins to boil. Simmer gently for an 
hour, and strain. 

GARLIC SAUCE — Grate a clove of garlic, and add the yolk of one egg ; rub 
smooth, and add one tablespoonful of bread crumbs which have been soaked in milk and 
squeezed dry, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper. Stir in from seven to eight spoon- 
fuls of olive oil and the juice of one lemon. If it is too thick, add a little water. 

MAYONNAISE VERTE — Take the yolks of two raw eggs, the yolk of one 
hard-boiled egg, three gherkins, two anchovies, large bunch of parsley chopped very 
fine, salt and cayenne to taste. Put all the ingredients (except the raw eggs) into a 
mortar and mash thoroughly ; then pass through a sieve, add the eggs and a small 
quantity of mayonnaise, and a dash of tarragon vinegar. 

SALZA — Take a cupful each of tomatoes, onions and green peppers (from 
which the seeds have been removed) ; scald and skin the tomatoes, and skin the pep- 
pers by blistering on a hot stove. Chop all together, adding salt and enough olive oil 
to moisten. This can be eaten hot or cold on fish or cold meats. 




CHILE SAUCE FOR FISH — Mash to a paste one clove of chopped garlic 
and two red peppers, softened in boiling water and rubbed through a sieve ; add a little 
of the water, salt, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Have heating in the fr5dng- 
pan one cupful of olive oil, and add the pepper pulp. Cook any fish in this sauce. 



KAIHELO OR FISH SAUCE (Hawaiian) — Grate acocoanut 
and place the meat in a sauceboat. Chop one pound of cooked shrimps, 
moisten wath the cocoanut water, put in a cheese-cloth and squeeze 
every bit of the juice over the cocoanut, and serve. 





GENOESE FISH SAUCE — Fry one tablespoonful of butter in one table- 
spoonful of flour until light brown ; add one cupful of water in which the lish has boiled 
and one cupful of claret. Reduce by boiling, and add one tablespoonful chopped pars- 
ley, half a canful of mushrooms, and one shallot, all chopped fine, and simmer a few 
moments. Then add, bit by bit, two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter, stirring all the time, 
and serve. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE — Chop fine one tablespoonful of parsley, one shallot, 
half a canful of mushrooms, and, if liked, a little garlic. Put all in a saucepan with a glassful 
of white wine, and half a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Reduce, and add salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste ; a tablespoonful of olive oil, and one cupful of bouillon. Simmer 
gently, and thicken with a tablespoonful of butter, rubbed in the same amount of flour. 

SAUCE FOR BARRACUDA — Brown a chopped onion in one tablespoonful 
of butter, sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir and add one cupful of claret, one- 
half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet and a bunch of parsley, chopped line. Simmer 
slowly one-half hour and then pass through a sieve into another saucepan ; add, little by 
little, one-half pound of butter and two chopped anchovies. When thoroughly hot, serve 
in a well-heated saucedish. Garnish the fish with slices of boiled beet and parsley. 







EGGS A LA BONNE CUISINE — Cut four hard-boiled eggs in half, scoop 
out the yolks, and rub to a paste, with a tablespoonful of butter, and one teaspoonful of 
anchovy paste, one pinch of curry powder and one teaspoonful of chutney. Fill the 
whites of the eggs with this, fry some rounds of bread a golden brown, and when cold 
spread with the remainder of the paste. Place one-half an egg on each round, and, 
with a pastry tube, garnish with cooked spinach that has been rubbed through a sieve 
with a little butter. 

EGGS A L'ARDENAISE — Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, 
seasoned with one-half teaspoonful each of onion juice and chopped chives, and one 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Butter a fire-proof dish 
and turn in the eggs, and pour on top very carefully four tablespoonfuls of thick cream. 
Place at equal distance the unbroken yolks, and bake quickly in the oven until the 
yolks are well set. Serve in the same dish. 

TOMATOES AND EGGS — Cut three or four firm, round tomatoes in half, 
and place them in a fire-proof baking-dish, skin down. Add one tablespoonful of 
water and bake until tender. Remove from oven before they lose their shape and 
scoop out a good portion from each. Break two eggs into a saucepan, add a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, wineglassful of cream, little onion juice, one tablespoonful of grated Parme- 
san cheese, pinch of salt, pepper and sugar, and whisk all until thick and creamy. Fill 
tomato cups with custard, decorate with a sprig of parsley. Serve very hot on toast. 




EGGS A LA STORK — Melt one large tablespoonful of butter in the blazer 
of the chafing-dish ; add one tablespoonful of flour, and cook for two minutes ; then stir 
in one pint of milk. Stir until it thickens and is perfectly smooth ; then add one 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and one cupful of grated cheese ; stir until the cheese is melted, and then re- 
duce the flame and break carefully on the sauce as many eggs as desired ; 
cook very slowly until the eggs are well set. Serve on pieces of toast, 
not too dry. 





FRICASSEED EGGS — Boil six eggs for five minutes, and remove the shells 
carefully. Roll them in flour ; then in egg, to which has been added one-half tea- 
spoonful of oil and same of vinegar, a few^ drops of onion juice and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, a grating of nutmeg, and salt. Roll in vermicelli, broken to fine bits, 
and fry in deep lard. Serve with sauce made as follows : Italian Sauce — Fry together 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour until brown ; add one-half cupful of white 
wine and a cupful of bouillon, season with salt and cayenne, and boil about fifteen 
minutes ; add one teaspoonful each of chopped chives and parsley, a few stoned olives 
and chopped mushrooms, bring to a boil again and pour over the eggs. 

EGG TIMBALES — Allow one egg for each timbale. To four eggs, slightly 
beaten, add one-fourth cupful of cream, a few drops of onion juice, and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of paprika. Turn the mixture into small buttered molds ; 
set in a pan of hot water, and cook until firm. Turn from the mold, and serve wnth a 
mushroom or shrimp sauce. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS AND MUSHROOMS — Clean and break into 
pieces half a pound of fresh mushrooms. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and a 
little cayenne pepper ; melt four tablespoonfuls of butter, add the mushrooms, cook two 
minutes ; then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and cook five minutes. Beat four 
eggs slightly, and pour over the mushrooms and cook until the eggs are of a creamy con- 
sistency, stirring constantly. Serve on toast. 




EGGS A LA DURANGO — Boil six dried Spanish peppers twenty minutes 

Drain, remove the seeds, and skin and chop fine. Fry in a spoonful of lard with half 

a chopped onion, and one clove of garlic. Add one cupful of well-washed rice 

and fry until yellow. Then cover with soup stock and cook until tender. Add 

a lump of butter, and salt to taste, and break half a dozen eggs on top of rice, 

and scramble. Serve on a hot dish. Omit the eggs and use as a stuffing 

for chicken or duck. 






ALBONDIGAS (Mexican) — Mix together two pounds of beef, veal or mut- 
ton, two mashed and skinned tomatoes, one-half an onion, chopped fine, one-half cupful 
of scalded cornmeal, pepper and salt to taste. Bind with one or two eggs and form into 
balls the size of a walnut. Roll these in flour and boil in a good beef broth, slightly 
thickened. From fifteen to twenty minutes will be required for cooking. 

ALBONDIGAS (Peruvian) — Cut two pounds of mutton into small pieces and 
simmer in a little water, until tender. Drop a dozen bell peppers into boiling water and 
scald until the thin outer skin can be peeled off. Chop the meat fine and add two dozen 
raisins, twelve stoned ripe or green olives, three hard boiled eggs cut up, salt and pep- 
per, and enough of the mutton gravy to moisten well. Stuff the peppers with this and 
place them carefully in a saucepan and cover with the following sauce, heat thoroughly, 
and serve. 

Sauce — Toast half a dozen red peppers on a hot stove top until they are blistered, 
then cover with boiling water and let stand for a few moments. Rub them through a 
colander and fry in a large tablespoonful of hot lard in which a chopped onion and a 
clove of garlic have been fried. Add the pulp of half a dozen tomatoes, a little salt, 
a tablespoonful of vinegar and enough water to make it as thin as a puree. Simmer a 
few minutes and pour over the peppers. 

DEVILED CHOPS — Mix together well one tablespoonful of butter and one 

teaspoonful each of made mustard, French mustard, hot chutney, grated horseradish ; 

add the juice of a lime, a little Chile vinegar, salt, paprika and cayenne pepper, and a 

few drops of onion juice. Rub this well into thick English mutton chops, broil rare and 

put the rest of the sauce over them in a very hot dish. 

SPANISH TONGUE — Boil a fresh tongue and when cold cut in thin 

slices. Take one pound of sweet red peppers and boil with a pinch of salt. 

When tender drain, remove the skin and rub through a colander. Add 

some salt, one teaspoonful of onion juice, and fry in lard five minutes. 

When cold mix with two tablespoonfuls (or less) of vinegar and one 

pound of ripe olives, pour over the tongue, and serve. 





FRITURA MIXTA — Take equal portions of breast of veal and chicken, 
calves' brains, kidneys and artichoke hearts. Mince very fine together, add one egg, 
season with salt and pepper, and make into small cakes. Dip each into batter and fry 
in olive oil. Serve on a bed of spaghetti, mixed with a good sauce. 

ANDALOUSIAN TRIPE — Soak one pound of tripe for twenty minutes in 
salted water in which a lump of washing soda has been dissolved. Wash well and boil 
until tender in one quart of water, with one onion stuck with cloves, one clove of garlic, 
two bay leaves, two green peppers sliced. Strain and pass the tripe through a meat- 
chopper ; then rub to a paste with two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half cupful of thick 
cream, salt and Tabasco sauce to taste, the pulp of six sweet red peppers (parboiled and 
rubbed through a colander) and the pulp of three tomatoes. When well mixed add 
one teaspoonful of onion juice and three eggs, beaten separately. Pour into a buttered 
mold, cover, and boil in a saucepan three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on a platter, 
garnish with stuffed tomatoes or peppers and serve with Spanish sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS A LA TOULOUSE — Cut some pieces of veal and fry in a 
little butter until brown. Make a puree of one-half pound of Italian chestnuts, by par- 
boiling, skinning, and boiling in a cup of milk until soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
Cook again with a little milk, one tablespoonful of butter and salt to taste, until it thick- 
ens. Cover the cutlet on each side with a spoonful of this puree and lay on ice to stiffen. 
When cold dip in fine crumbs, then in egg and more bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Bechamel or cream sauce. 




LOMO — Cut two pounds of fresh pork loin into nice flat pieces large enough 
for a portion. Marinate for two hours in a tablespoonful of vinegar, a little chopped 
tanagon, a clove of chopped garlic, and a chopped pepper (seeds removed), then 
broil and serve on a bed of mashed potatoes. 

BEEF A LA MILANAISE — Have five pounds of the upper 
round of beef tied in a neat roll. With a carving steel pierce it through 





in eight or ten places, and insert sticks of macaroni and fat salt pork alternating in the 
holes. Sear it in hot lard all over, place in a deep casserole or saucepan, and cover with 
the following sauce : Soak two ounces of dried mushrooms in one pint of hot water 
for one hour, then drain carefully and chop. Heat two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and 
fry in it one large chopped onion until yellow, then add two chopped tomatoes, the 
mushrooms, two sliced green peppers and the water in which the mushrooms have 
soaked, one teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, one cupful of white wine, one cupful of ripe 
olives, salt and Tabasco sauce to taste. Simmer all together five minutes, then pour over 
the beef ; cover tightly and bake slowly in the oven, basting frequently. When tender 
place the beef on a platter and surround it with spaghetti which has been mixed with 
the sauce. If the sauce has been reduced too much, thin with soup stock. 




DEVILED MEAT — Make a bat'ter of two tablespoonfuls of dry mustard, 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of sweet 
oil and one of vinegar. Cut any kind of cold meat in slices and let soak in this batter, 
then fry light brown in lard. Pour the batter that is left into one cupful of hot soup 
stock or water ; add a small piece of butter and bring to a boil slowly. When it has 
thickened, pour over the meat, and serve. Cut gashes in cold turkey legs (the drumstick 
and second joint), rub this mixture well in, and broil for breakfast. 

CHANFAINA OF LIVER (Spanish) — Boil in salted water for three minutes 

one pound of lamb's liver. Drain and cut in small cubes. Chop fine one onion, one 

tablespoonful of parsley, six sprigs of mint, add two cloves, a few cumin seeds, one-half 

teaspoonful of cinnamon, a pinch of Spanish saffron, a dash of Tabasco sauce, one 

tablespoonful of olive oil and one cupful of soup stock. Add one cupful of bread 

crumbs which have been soaked in hot water, drained and highly seasoned. Mix 

all with the liver and bring to a boil. Serve with Spanish rice. 



HACHIS A LA TOULOUSAINE (Italian Hash) — Chop one pint 
of cold roast beef with a calf's brain which has been parboiled. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, 

18 





the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, and spice to taste. Form into balls, roll in egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in deep lard. Serve with tomato sauce. 

OKRA GUMBO STEW — Cut one and one-half pounds of lamb or veal into 
small pieces. Fry one sliced onion in two tablespoonfuls of lard a few minutes. Add 
the meat and brown slightly. Sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well, cover 
with water and simmer until tender. When it has cooked an hour add three cut up 
tomatoes, one sliced green pepper (seeds removed), one-half teaspoonful kitchen bouquet, 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt. In another saucepan boil for one-half hour two pounds 
of young okra, from which the stems have been cut, one-half cupful of Lima beans and 
the com cut from two cobs. Ten minutes before serving add the vegetables to the stew, 
thicken if necessary, and add one-half teaspoonful of sugar. Fill a buttered mold with 
well-cooked rice, bake in the oven for twenty minutes and turn out on a hot platter. Pour 
the gumbo around it, and serve. The Lima beans and corn are omitted in some parts 
of the South. 

KIDNEYS LOS ANGELES — Slice two beef or three calf kidneys, after 
removing the hard centers. Fry four sliced onions in two tablespoonfuls of lard until 
brown, then add six large tomatoes cut up, six green peppers (seeds removed), chopped, 
and four slices of bacon. Cook five minutes and add four potatoes cut in thick slices, 
salt and Tabasco sauce to taste, the sliced kidneys and enough water to cover. Stew 
until the kidneys are tender, then thicken sauce with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs 
rubbed to a paste with a glassful of sherry and one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 
Add the whites of the eggs chopped, and serve with boiled rice. 




LIVER AND ANCHOVY — Cut into round pieces and toast on one side as 

many slices of bread one-quarter of an inch thick as there are persons ; spread 

with butter and then thickly with anchovy paste. Have ready some calves' liver 

which has been boiled three or four minutes only, passed through a chopper and 

rubbed smooth. To this add a little cream, some onion juice, pepper, salt, 

mushroom catsup, paprika and tomato sauce. Mix well, then pile in a 






pyramid on the toast, cover with mayonnaise or brown sauce to which a little anchovy 
sauce has been added, heat through in the oven, and serve. 

GRILLADES A LA CREOLE — Cut a thick tenderloin steak into pieces 
about four inches square. Pour a little oil over each and let stand a few minutes. 
Put them in a broiler and cook over the hot coals to sear the meat and keep in the 
juices ; then place them in a baking-pan, sprinkle with one chopped onion, one green 
pepper sliced (seeds removed), one-half clove of garlic ( if liked ), one tablespoonful of 
tomato sauce, juice of one lemon and one-fourth cupful of oil. Cover closely, and when 
brown turn them. Add a little water to the gravy, boil up, and serve. 

SAUSAGE AND CABBAGE (Milanaise) — Brown two tablepoonfuls of 
butter with two of flour in a saucepan, add one pint of boiling water, one teaspoonful 
of salt, cayenne pepper, a bouquet of herbs, one carrot cut in rounds, one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and one-half a small cabbage cut in four pieces. Simmer until the cabbage 
is nearly tender and the sauce has been somewhat reduced. Fifteen minutes before 
serving add one-half a pound of sausages and cook until done. Place the cabbage on a 
platter with the sausages in a row on top and pour over it the sauce. Brussels sprouts 
can be used instead of cabbage, but must not be cooked so long. 

SPANISH FRICO — Half boil enough potatoes to make when sliced one ana 

one-half pints. Line the bottom of a mold with these, cover with minced onions, then 

with rolled cracker ; add small squares of lean beef one-half of an inch thick, cut from 

the round, and on each piece place a lump of butter, first seasoning the beef with salt 

and pepper. Repeat the layers until the potatoes and two pounds of steak have been 

used, finishing with the potatoes. Then add one pint of sweet cream, which should 

just come to the top without covering the last layer. Put the lid on the mold 

and steam two and a half hours. 



ESTOFADO DE CORDERO — Put six mutton chops in a large 
frjdng-pan with one tablespoonful of color (or lard), one tablespoonful of 

20 






vinegar, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, cayenne pepper, four whole potatoes, six small 
onions and one-half pint of water. Cook over a slow fire about twenty minutes. Thicken 
with flour, and serve. 

OYSTERS AND POTATOES — Beat lightly with a fork one pint of hot 
mashed potatoes. Blanch, chop fine and pound to a paste, with a little thick cream, 
eight ounces of almonds. Add these to the potatoes. Beat together until creamy, pile 
on a platter, and garnish with large fried oysters and slices of lemon. 

SOUTH PARK SWEETBREADS — Parboil two fine calf sweetbreads and 
break into neat pieces. Rub to a paste the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one third of a 
cupful of hesh butter, add one tablespoonful brandy. Put in the blazer one tablespoon- 
ful each of flour and butter, cook one minute and add a cupful of cream, salt and pepper 
and nutmeg to taste. Stir till it thickens and then add one-half cupful of sherry and the 
paste, stirring all the time. When quite hot add the sweetbreads, the chopped whites 
of the eggs, and reduce the flame. Simmer for two mmutes, and serve with hot biscuits 
or buttered toast. 

SWEETBREAD AND OYSTER PIE — Blanch and parboil a pair of fine 
sweetbreads. Break in small pieces and place half in a pudding-dish, which has been 
lined with puff paste. Drain a pint of oysters and place a layer on the sweetbreads ; pour 
in a rich cream sauce, then add another layer of sweetbreads and oysters, cover with the 
sauce, and, lastly, add a top of puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. 

SWEETBREADS A LA BEARNAISE — Blanch one pound of sweet- 
breads by soaking first in warm water and then in ice water for half an hour, cut 
in pieces and place in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pep- 
per ; brovm on both sides and simmer slowly until tender. In another sauce- 
pan boil one-fourth of a cupful of tarragon vinegar with one teaspoonful of 
chopped shallot, two bay leaves, one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, six 
whole peppers and a grating of nutmeg, and reduce one-half. Place 



XJ 





the saucepan on the corner of the range and add while stirring a little butter and the 
yolks of three eggs. Put this in a double boiler and add little by little, always stirring, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter till the sauce is thick ; then put in the sweetbreads, and when 
hot serve on toast. 

TERRAPIN - Select cow terrapin if possible. Plunge the tenapin in boiling 
water for five minuies, then take out and rub off the skin of the feet and throw back into 
fresh hot water. Boil until the shells show sign of cracking. Remove the under shell 
first, then cut off the head and claws, and remove the gall and sand-bags very carefully. 
Cut up the remainder in pieces, not too small, and the intestines quite fine, and be care- 
ful to preserve the juice and eggs. For each terrapin allow the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, one-third of a pound of the very best butter, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, a 
wineglassful of sherry and a teaspoonful of brandy ; salt, cayenne pepper to taste, a grat- 
ing of nutmeg, and one-half cupful of strong beef stock. Mash the yolks to a paste with 
one-half the butter ; put the other half in a saucepan and hy with the flour until a very 
dark brown, add the beef stock and bring to a boil ; then the wine, seasoning and ter- 
rapin. Simmer for a few minutes, and, last of all, add the egg paste and the terrapin 
eggs, and be careful not to boil again. When ready to serve heat in a double boiler, 
as boiling will ruin the sauce. Serve with big hominy. 

CHILE CON CARNE (Mexican) — Simmer ribs of beef, cut in small pieces, or 
pieces i round steak, in water until tender. Strain and hy in red lard (see page 32). 
Cove, with Chile Colorado (see page 34) and simmer for fifteen minutes. 

CARBONADA (Chilena) — Fry in a tablespoonful of color a sliced onion, 
eight small squares of pumpkin and a pint of meat cut into small pieces. Cover 
with water and simmer until the meat is nearly cooked, then add two green pep- 
pers cut in rings and four potatoes peeled and quartered and cook until done. 
Season and serve. If the meat has already been cooked add the potatoes 
at once. 

EMPANADAS (Chilena) — Chop fine a cupful of any kind of 
22 





cold meat. Mince a small piece of onion and fry in a little lard ; add the chopped 
meat and a bit of red pepper and fry two minutes. Add a hard-boiled egg cut in 
moderately small pieces, a dozen seeded raisins and a dozen stoned olives, then half a 
cupful of rich brown sauce. Have ready some rich pie-crusts cut into round pieces. 
Put a spoonful of the mince on each and press into a turnover, then fry in boiling lard, 
and when done dust with powdered sugar. 







CHICKEN MILANAISE — Prepare and truss a young chicken, as if for roast- 
ing. Put it in a casserole, and pour over it two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a cupful of 
white wine, a cupful of bouillon, salt and cayenne to taste, one spoonful of dried 
mushrooms, soaked in one cupful of water and chopped fine, and one-half can of mush- 
rooms. Cover tightly and simmer in the oven for about an hour, turning the chicken 
occasionally ; add a dozen olives and a tablespoonful of butter, braided, with one table- 
spoonful of flour, and bring to a boil. Remove the chicken and add about a pint of 
boiled spaghetti or tagliarini to the sauce. Place the chicken on a platter, surround 
with the spaghetti, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese. 

TURKISH PILAU — Boil a fowl in two quarts of water, to which has been 
added two onions, cut in quarters, three bay leaves, one tablespoonful of salt, a few 
whole peppers, three cloves and one stick of cinnamon. When beginning to be tender, 
remove the fowl and cut all the white meat off in neat pieces. Strain the broth into 
another saucepan and bring to a boil (there should not be more than a quart of it). 
Scatter slowly in one cupful of well-washed rice, and boil hard until it has swelled well ; 
then add a cupful of seeded raisins, the cut-up chicken, and a large lump of fresh butter, 
and simmer on the back of the stove until the rice is thoroughly done, stirring occasion- 
ally with a fork. 




CHICKEN CURRY (Hindustani) — Slice one medium-sized onion, one clove 
of garlic, and a small piece of ginger-root, and fry until light brown in three tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil. Then add two tablespoonfuls of curry powder and one tablespoonful 
of flour, and cook for two minutes, stirring well ; then add three cupfuls of chicken 
broth, stirring continuously, and simmer for twenty minutes. Strain through a sieve ; 
add salt and pepper to taste and the cream of a cocoanut. Last of all, add the 
chicken, cut in neat pieces, and pour all into a double boiler, to keep hot until 
served. Do not let the curry boil after the cocoanut cream has been added, 
as it may curdle. To prepare the cream, shave off the brown inner skin 
and grate the meat of a large cocoanut. Pour over it one cupful of milk, 
let it stand fifteen minutes, and scald. Drain the juice carefully into a 






bowl ; put the meat in a bag and squeeze out all of the cream. The meat should be 
quite dry and like snow, and piled in a dish on the rice-table. This curry sauce can 
be used with fish, crabs, shrimps, sweetbread, oysters, eggs, kidneys, etc. Milk or 
fish stock can be substituted for the chicken broth, if a maigre dish is required. Rice is 
always served with it, and the orthodox rice-table should be used. 

CHAUD-FROID OF CHICKEN — Boil two young chickens until tender ; let 
them get cold and carve into neat joints, removing the skin. Make a rich cream sauce 
of the chicken stock, season with kitchen bouquet and sherry ; let simmer gently for an 
hour, and strain. Dip each piece of chicken in the sauce till entirely covered, and place 
on ice till quite cold. Serve with lettuce and French dressing. 

CHICKEN PICANTE — Cut up a chicken in small pieces. Cover with water, 
and stew until nearly tender ; then add four medium-sized potatoes, cut in halves, and 
boil slowly. Half an hour before serving hry two sliced onions brown in two table- 
spoonfuls of hot lard ; add the pulp of six large, sweet red peppers (soaked overnight 
and pressed through a colander) ; cook for two minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, and when very hot add one cupful of cheese, cut in small pieces. Stir until the 
cheese is melted, then pour over the chicken and potatoes and bring all to a boil, stirring 
to keep hrom burning. Serve very hot. 

CHICKEN DAUBE — Stuff a young fowl with forcemeat, made of one pound 

of sausage-meat, one-half pound of cold, lean veal or tongue, cut in inch strips, and one 

pint of bread crumbs, soaked in milk, and then squeezed as dry as possible. Season 

with one teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful each of powdered sage, thyme, 

cloves and allspice, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Truss carefully, and brown 

the chicken in a tablespoonful of lard ; put it in a saucepan, cover well with water, 

add a bunch of soup vegetables, a calf's foot and two bay leaves ; cover and 

simmer until the chicken is tender ; then remove hrom the pot and place in 

rather a small mold. Strain the broth and skim off the grease carefully. 

There should be at least one pint of liquid. To that add about one- 





^otiltrj) anti 



half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, the juice of one lemon, one-half cupful of white wine, 
and one-half tablespoonful of gelatine, dissolved in a little warm water. Bring to a boil, 
strain through a cloth, pour around the chicken, and put on ice. Turn out on a platter, 
on a bed of lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN — Split a young roasting chicken down the back 
and lay it, breast up, in a baking-pan or a casserole. Spread with a layer of butter, 
pepper and salt, and pour over it a cupful of boiling water. Cover closely, and cook in 
the oven about an hour. If nearly tender, pour over it one cupful of thick, hot cream, 
and two cupfuls of fresh mushrooms ; cover again, and cook from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes longer. Place the chicken on a hot platter, stir the gravy well, and, if necessary, 
thicken it with a little flour, pour over the chicken, and serve. Oysters can be substi- 
tuted for the mushrooms. Cook quail the same way. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE — Pass the white meat of a fowl through a chop- 
per, then rub it through a sieve. Work into the pulp, one at a time, the yolks of three 
or four eggs and one gill of thick cream (or cream sauce). Season with white pepper, 
salt and grated nutmeg. When perfectly smooth, butter a mold and decorate bottom 
and sides with thin slices of truffles, then pour in the mixture, to which has been added 
the beaten whites of the eggs. It should only half fill the mold. Cover tightly and 
boil for one and one-half hours in a saucepan half filled with boiling water. Serve with 
a rich cream sauce, to which have been added thinly sliced truffles. 




BLANQUETTE OF TURKEY — Heat one tablespoonful of best butter in the 
blazer of the chafing-dish ; stir in one dessert-spoonful of flour, and cook for two min- 
utes ; then add one-half cupful of highly seasoned white stock, one-half cupful of 
thick cream, a dash of lemon juice, salt, paprika and grated nutmeg to taste, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Reduce the flame and simmer three 
minutes ; then add one pint of breast of cold turkey, cut in small pieces, 
and cook five minutes more. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and serve at once. 






CHICKEN A LA BORDEAUX — Take young squab chickens, about the 
size of quail, and stuff with chopped celery, a small onion and seasoning. Bind the 
chicken with very thin slices of breakfast bacon and put in a pan ; add a cupful of hot 
water, a tablespoonful of butter for each chicken, a few small salad onions, a very little 
salt, pepper, and a few dried herbs. Cover tightly, place the pan where it is not too 
hot, and stew until tender. Usually it will take from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour. When very tender, remove, take off the bacon jacket and put in a hot oven 
until browned, basting frequently with the gravy. If necessary, a little more water can 
be added before putting in oven. When done, pour the gravy over the chicken, and 
serve with a water-cress salad. 

FRITTER BATTER — Pour one tablespoonful of oil in a cup and half fill 
it with warm water. Have one cupful of sifted flour in a bowl, and mix it slowly 
with the water until perfectly smooth. Make a soft batter, adding more water if neces- 
sary, then beat in very hard the yolks of two eggs, and, last, the whites beaten to a 
froth, and a pinch of salt. This batter can be used for any kind of fritters. 

HAWAIIAN CHICKEN — Cut up a fat young fowl, as if for fricassee, put it in 
a saucepan and cover with water ; simmer until tender. The Hawaiian recipe calls for 
a pint of cooked luau to be added to the chicken at this point, but spinach which has 
been boiled and drained is a palatable substitute. When the chicken and spinach have 
boiled five minutes, add the cream of one cocoanut. Just bring to a boil and remove 
from the fire ; add pepper and salt, the latter very carefully, to prevent curdling. The 
chicken must not boil hard after the cocoanut cream has been added. Serve with rice. 
Prepare the cocoanut cream as follows : Break a cocoanut into pieces, shave off the 
brown skin, and grate the meat. Put in a saucepan with one-half pint of milk, 
and heat slowly. When about to boil, drain off the cream and put the meat in 
a cheese-cloth bag, squeeze until the juice has been entirely extracted. The 
pulp is thrown away. This gives a delicious flavor to the chicken. 

CHICKEN A L'lTALIENNE — Cut the remains of cold 

27 





^otiltrp anti 



chicken (or turkey) into pieces about an inch long and marinate them in a bowl contain- 
ing one tablespoonful of olive oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, a 
few^ drops of onion juice, salt and pepper. At the end of half an hour sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley, dip them in fritter batter and fry in boiling lard. Drain on a 
brown paper, and serve with or without an Italian sauce. 

In some parts of Italy this dish is made of several kinds of cold meats, poultry, game, 
brains, etc. (the greater the variety the better), served on the same platter, and in Spain 
all kinds of cold vegetables are fried in batter and served together. 

PIGEON A LA CREOLE — Clean and wipe dry three pigeons and cut each 
into four pieces. Marinate them in half a cupful of olive oil for fifteen minutes. Drain 
off the oil into a frying-pan. Chop one onion, one clove of garlic (if liked), a green 
pepper (seeds removed) and a tablespoonful of parsley. Fry in the oil until transparent, 
and then add the pigeons and sear them all over. Put all of this in a casserole with a 
can of tomatoes, salt, paprika and cayenne to taste, one tablespoonful of finely minced 
salt pork, half a cupful of sliced olives and a pint of good stock. Cover tightly and 
simmer in the oven an hour and a half. Five minutes before serving moisten a table- 
spoonful of browned flour with a little of the gravy, stir into the stew, and when it 
thickens sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garnish with croutons and serve in the same 
dishes. 




SALMI OF QUAIL — Split two plump quail downn the back. Heat two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer of the chafing-dish, put in the birds and brown 
on one side, turn and brown on the other, then add one gill of highly seasoned broth, 
one gill of port or claret, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, salt and pepper to 
taste, cover and simmer until tender. 

CHICKEN PORTUGUESE — Into the bottom of a casserole put a 
piece of pork rind. On this stand a tender roasting chicken, trussed ; add 
four ounces of butter, salt, and cayenne to taste, and a few drops of 
kitchen bouquet. Then add the following vegetables, chopped fine : 






Two onions, two young carrots, one-half head of celery, two Chiles, two bell-peppers, 
seeds removed, and one cupful of soup stock. Cover the casserole, and cook quickly 
for forty minutes. From time to time baste the chicken with a spoonful of the gravy ; 
then add two tomatoes, skinned and sliced, and cook for thirty minutes more. Serve in 
the casserole. 

MOBILE BAY GUMBO — Cut in pieces three fat young squirrels. Cover with 
a quart of water and add a slice of lean ham cut in dice, a carrot and onion sliced, 
pieces of celery, two sliced tomatoes, two cut up green peppers (seeds removed), a bay 
leaf and some sweet herbs. Simmer until tender and then add two pounds of nice 
okra, cut in half. Stew until tender. Thicken with a little butter and flour braided 
together. Then add one pint of oysters from which the liquor has been drained. Sim- 
mer for three minutes, and serve in a deep platter surrounded with rice. 

SALMI OF DUCK WITH OLIVES — Roast for eight minutes two sprig-tail 
ducks. Cut off the breast, wings and legs, and put the carcasses into a saucepan with 
a dozen cloves, one onion and half a dozen stalks of celery. Cover with water and 
simmer to make a good gravy, then strain. Put in a saucepan the meat, two ounces of 
butter, the gravy, salt, pepper, cayenne, half a head of celery cut in small strips, one 
teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen stoned olives. Cook gently ten minutes, add 
a piece of butter rolled in browned flour, stir until smooth. Simmer five minutes, then 
serve with boiled or fried hominy. 

CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS — Stuff a fat young chicken with oysters, add 
two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, and a little mace to taste. Truss carefully 
and place in a tin pail with a tight cover. Stand the pail in a bath of boiling 
water; boil an hour or longer. When tender, lay the fowl on a dish and 
pour the gravy into a saucepan. To this add more oysters, two hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced, a grating of nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, a 
cupful of cream and some thickening. Bring to a boil and pour over 
the chicken. 





SPANISH PIE — Take one pint of cold chicken, duck, or any game. Cut it into 
flakes and place it in a pudding-dish which has been lined with a thin crust. On the 
layer of meat place a layer of sweet red peppers (seeds removed) cut in slices ; next, a 
layer of thinly sliced bologna sausage, and so on until the dish is full. Over this pour a 
glass of claret into which has been rubbed two tablespoonfuls of flour. Cover with a 
thin crust of pastry, and bake. 








SPANISH RICE — Chop one large onion fine, brown it in two tablespoonfuls 
of lard, then add one pepper chopped fine and a half pound of well-washed rice ; stir 
constantly until the rice is slightly brown, then add three cupfuls of bouillon, one heap- 
ing spoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and a pinch of Spanish saffron. Boil until 
the stock is quite absorbed by the rice, which should be rather dry. 

NEAPOLITAN RICE — Boil a slice of bacon and a pinch of Spanish saffron 
in a quart of water for five minutes. Sprinkle in one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and then one cupful of well-washed rice. Do not stir after the water has begun 
to boil, and when it is tender put it in a greased mold and dot a few pieces of butter 
over it. Place in the oven for a few minutes, turn out on a dish, and serve. 

CHILELY A LA ROSELEAF CLUB — Grate or chop four ounces of New 
York dairy cheese ; rub to a paste with one-half ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of 
made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a dash of Tabasco sauce and a little 
cayenne pepper. Stir in a chafing-dish over hot water until nearly melted, and then stir 
in quickly the following sauce which has been made in another saucepan : Scald and 
skin three tomatoes, cut in small pieces, add one white onion and one bell pepper (seeds 
removed) chopped fine, and cook over a hot fire ten minutes. If there is much tomato 
juice, pour away some of it, as this must not be watery. After it has been added to the 
cheese stir until thoroughly mixed, and serve with Schlitz beer. 

FRIJOLES — Wash well one pint of small red beans, cover with two quarts of 

cold water and bring to a boil slowly. Drain, cover again with boiling water, and boil. 

Add two large tablespoonfuls of lard or dripping, one pounded clove of garlic (if 

liked), one large Spanish onion sliced, two Chile peppers broken, with some of the 

seeds removed (unless it is desired to have the beans very hot), and five slices of 

bacon. Simmer slowly on the back of the stove all day, stirring occasionally 

with a wooden spoon to thicken the gravy. When done it should be of 

the consistency of mush, with the beans partly broken. Half an hour 

before serving pour the desired quantity into a Mexican earthenware 





pot. Pour over it one teaspoonful of olive oil and simmer until needed. If you cook 
the beans rather dry and let them get cold, you can cover spoonfuls w^ith batter and fry 
in hot lard. 

ITALIAN MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, TAGLIARINI, ARIGATI, 
ETC. — Have a large saucepan full of well-salted boiling water ; add one-half pound 
of macaroni, spaghetti, tagliarini, lasagna, or any other paste, in unbroken lengths, and let 
it boil until tender. When it is cooked take it out and drain in a colander, then pour 
the mushroom sauce (see next page) over it, heat with two ounces grated Parmesan 
cheese, and mix with two forks. 

POLENTA — Melt a large spoonful of butter in one quart of boiling water. 
Wet one pint of cornmeal with a very little cold water, add one spoonful of salt, then 
stir in slowly the boiling water. Bring it to a boil stirring continuously until the meal is 
cooked and has lost its raw taste. It should be thick enough to make into a ball. 
Lay aside to cool ; when quite cold cut into thin slices and put a layer on the bottom of 
a pudding-dish, dot it with butter and thin slices of cheese, then more mush, cheese and 
butter until the dish is full ; have the last layer cheese, and bake in a quick oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

RED LARD OR COLOR — Heat one pound of lard until it stops fizzing and 
then drop in three large dried red peppers, and cook till crisp. Take them out, crush 
well and add to three tomatoes which have been cooking in a little water. Stir this mix- 
ture into the lard and boil, then strain into a glass jar and cover tightly. Use a spoonful 
of the color to flavor and color stews, gravies, etc. 




RICE A LA MILANAISE — Wash a half pound of rice thoroughly 

and boil until tender in a quart of boiling water salted. When it has swelled 

well pour off the water, and drain. Brown in one-fourth pound of butter, 

one chopped onion and add a little salt, cayenne pepper, the rice, and a 

quarter of a pound of grated cheese, mixing together with twa forks. 






jEacatoni. a^ice, €tc. 

Pour in a buttered mold and bake in the oven for a quarter of an hour; turn out on a 
platter and garnish with poached or fried eggs. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE — Put one ounce of dried mushrooms to soak in a 
cupful of boiling water and let stand for an hour ; then take a frying-pan and place in it 
about two ounces of onion chopped up with a little parsley and hry in four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil for about two minutes. Having done this take the mushrooms and press 
the water out of them, chop them with a knife, add them to the onion and fry for another 
minute ; then add water in which the mushrooms were soaked, a little tomato sauce, 
salt, pepper and spices, and let the whole boil slowly for half an hour. 

RAVIOLI — Make a paste of two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and water enough to make a stiff dough. Knead well and roll out into 
a sheet as thick as very thin cardboard. Cut it in half and proceed as follows : Place 
teaspoonful of farce in regular rows on the paste two inches apart. Moisten the upper 
part of the paste and place carefully on top of the lower piece, pressing the two together 
with the fingers or with a ravioli rolling-pin, forming small cushions between. Cut through 
the rows down and across with a pastry knife in such a way as to leave pieces about 
two inches square. Place the ravioli on a board covered with a clean piece of muslin, 
near the stove, and dry thoroughly. When needed poach them, a few at a time, in 
clear bouillon for ten minutes. When all are done place in a tureen and pour the soup 
over the ravioli ; add a few spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and serve. 

FARCE FOR RAVIOLI — Take one cupful of cold chicken, veal or fish, 

chop very fine and rub to a paste, with one calf or two sheep brains, parboiled ; add 

one cupful of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in milk and then squeezed 

dry, one teaspoonful of onion juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt, a grating of 

nutmeg, dash of cayenne and thyme, and rub well together. Have ready 

one cupful of spinach which has been boiled, drained and chopped; 

stir the spinach into the paste, add the yolks of two eggs, beat for 

two minutes. ' 



^ 





CHILE COLORADO SAUCE (Mexican) — (For enchiladas or any cold meat.) 
Roast about fifteen red chile peppers, fresh or dried, in a hot oven until they blister. 
Drop them into boiling water until the thin outer skin can be peeled off, then rub to a 
pulp with a potato-masher, adding a very little water. Strain through a colander, add 
salt, a tablespoonful, or more, of vinegar, a finely chopped onion, and fry all in a large 
heaping tablespoonful of lard for a few minutes. Add a cupful or more of water and 
simmer for twenty minutes. 

ENCHILADAS (Mexican) — Scald two cups of cornmeal in a cup of boiling 
water. Stir until smooth, then add one egg, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a 
pinch of salt, half a teacupful of flour and enough milk to make a thin batter. Cook 
quickly on a hot greased griddle, making the cakes rather thin and as large as a large 
saucer. Dip each cake into chile sauce (see page 1 2), place on a hot dish and cover each 
with grated cheese and finely chopped onion and stoned olives. They can either be 
rolled or piled on each other like a layer cake with the chile sauce poured over all. 
Serve very hot. 







ASPARAGUS A LA MILANAISE — Cut the tops of medium-sized aspara- 
gus into two and a half inch lengths. Tie them in bundles and cook in salted water for 
ten minutes. Drain and arrange on a fire-proof platter neatly, and cover with a rich 
cream sauce. Sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese thickly over the top and brown in a 
quick oven. 

TIMBALE OF SPINACH AND GREEN PEAS — Cook separately one- 
half pound each of spinach and green peas. After draining very thoroughly, mash the 
vegetables through a fine sieve, also three slices of white bread, previously soaked in 
soup stock and squeezed dry ; add salt, pepper and paprika to taste, one-half cupful of 
cream, yolks of three eggs, and, lastly, the whites of three eggs beaten stiff and folded 
in lightly. Butter the bottom and sides of small timbale molds and dust with cracker 
crumbs. Fill two-thirds full with the above mixture and bake for twenty minutes in a 
pan set in warm water. 




ARTICHOKES GENOESE — Trim four good-sized artichokes ; remove some 
of the tough outer leaves and cut off half the tops. Boil in soup stock until tender ; 
then drain, cut in quarters, and serve with the following sauce : Put in a saucepan one 
tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; cook for two minutes, and then add pepper 
and salt, one cupful of bouillon, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and simmer a few 
minutes, and just before serving stir in the yolks of two eggs. 

FRIED ARTICHOKES (Italian) — Wash well four tender young artichokes, 
cut off the stems and all the tough, outside leaves and thorny points ; then cut in quar- 
ters, or, if large, in eighths, and marinate in French dressing, dip in batter, and fry in boil- 
ing oil until brown. Summer squash and cauliflower are treated in the same manner. 

ZUCCHETTI (Italian Squash) — Parboil six of the long Italian squash, 
cut in two lengthwise, and scoop out part of the interior. Beat eight eggs 
together, and add one cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, one cupful or 
more of stale bread crumbs (soaked in milk and drained dry), and two 





sprigs of thyme, chopped very fine. Stir all well together and add a little salt and one 
teaspoonful of olive oil. This mixture should be as thick as breakfast mush. Into each 
piece of squash pour one tablespoonful of olive oil, and fill with the mixture, and bake 
until brown. 

ARTICHOKE FRICASSEE — Clean young artichokes, cutting off the stalks, 
all the outer leaves and thorny ends ; then cut in thin slices, throw them into fresh water, 
drain, and place in a saucepan with butter, parsley, a little minced garlic, and salt to 
taste. Cook slowly until tender ; before drawing from the fire add the yolks of two or 
more eggs, that you have first beaten together, with a little water, some lemon juice and 
grated Parmesan cheese. Be careful to stir constantly and not allow the egg to burn. 
Serve when it is of a creamy consistency. 




ARTICHOKES A L'INFERNO — Clean and rinse your artichokes, cutting 
off stalks, thorny points and tough outside leaves. Open out the artichoke by pressing on 
the leaves, wash in fresh water, and drain. Place them, standing, in an earthen stewpan, 
pour over oil, pepper and salt, so that this seasoning penetrates all the leaves and spreads 
over the entire bottom of the pan. Bake in oven until tender. 

PIMIENTO TIMBALES — Boil six large, sweet red peppers until tender (if 
out of season, the canned Pimiento Morrones can be substituted). Remove skin and 
seeds and rub to a pulp. Grate six ears of corn ; add this to the pepper pulp, also two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream (or cream sauce), half a tablespoonful tomato sauce, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix thoroughly, fold in the 
beaten whites of the eggs, and pour into buttered timbale cups, stand in a baking-pan, 
half filled with hot water, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 



BAKED TOMATOES— Fill a quart pudding-dish with large, ripe 
tomatoes, which have been scalded and peeled, and from the stem end of 
which a teaspoonful of the pulp has been removed. Chop together one 
medium-sized onion, one bell pepper, seeds removed, and one-half 






cupful of stale bread crumbs ; add one tablespoonful or more of brown sugar and some 
salt. Put a teaspoonful of this mixture into each tomato, and moisten with a teaspoonful 
of olive oil. Pour a little oil over all, and bake in a moderate oven for at least an hour. 

AJIACO (Peruvian Peppers) — Take eight sweet red peppers, split them, re- 
move the seeds, and soak overnight in a pint of water. The next morning rub the 
peppers through a sieve, softening the pulp with a cupful of the water in which they 
have soaked. Boil four good-sized potatoes in their skins, and peel them. Chop half 
of a white Spanish onion, and fry until transparent ; add the strained peppers and the 
potatoes, which have been cut in quarters, and salt. Have ready two slices of stale 
bread, which have been soaked in water and squeezed dry ; add this to the mixture, 
together with one tablespoonful of olive oil, some slices of New York cheese, cut small, 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. Bring all to a boil, and serve. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CORN — Parboil either the red or green beU 
peppers. Leave the stems on but cut a small slice from one side of each pepper. Re- 
move the seeds and fill with the following mixture : Grate a dozen ears of com, add a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of thick cream, two eggs well beaten, and salt 
to taste, and fill each pepper. Replace the slice previously cut out, and bake in a quick 
oven. Summer squash cooked in the same way are delicious. 

COLACHE — Chop together one small onion, one green pepper (seeds removed), 
three skinned tomatoes ; add one dozen small squash, cut in pieces, the com cut from 
two ears, and one-half pound of string beans, cut into small pieces. To this add four 
tablespoonfuls of California olive oil, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. 



STUFFED SQUASH — • Select six summer squash of the same size. Cut 
off the hard stems and parboil. Cut out a round disk from the stem and scoop 
out some of the contents. Make a rich cream sauce, add a little Worcester- 
shire sauce and a cupful of New York Dairy cheese ; cut in dice and 
add two ounces of cracker crumbs and one egg. Stir all together 

37 






over the fire until quite melted. Into each squash put a tablespoonful of this paste, and 
bake brown in a quick oven. To the remainder of the sauce add a little thick cream, 
and heat ; pour this over the squash, and serve. Spanish onions can be cooked in the 
same way. 

POTATOES A LA CANNES — Wash six medium-sized potatoes, and peel. 
Cut them endwise in slices one-fourth of an inch thick and stand in salted ice water fif- 
teen minutes. Dry them, and simmer until tender in warm fat (not boiling hot) about 
ten minutes. Take them from the fat and drain. Make the fat boiling hot, put a few 
pieces at a time in a frying-basket and plunge into the fat. They should puff out to 
about twice their original size. 

TOMATOES ALA PERUGIA — Select three medium-sized firm tomatoes, 
scald and skin ; scoop out most of the contents and fill with half a pound of well-spiced 
sausage meat, to which has been added two thick slices of bread soaked in half a cup- 
ful of boiling water, and then squeezed. Place the stuffed tomatoes in a fire-proof bak- 
ing-dish and sprinkle over them some fine crumbs, add the following sauce, and bake in 
a moderate oven about forty minutes, and serve in the same dish. 

Sauce — Soak one ounce of dried mushrooms m one cupful of boiling water 
about an hour. Drain carefully and chop fine. Heat two tablespoonfuls of oil in a 
frying-pan, add one large onion sliced thin and a bit of garlic (if liked) and simmer till 
tender ; then add the chopped mushrooms, two tomatoes, one chopped green pepper 
(seeds removed), one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and the mushroom water, salt 
to taste, and simmer one-half hour. Pour this sauce over the tomatoes. 




POTATOES A LA BATANGOS — Boil enough potatoes to make a 

pint. Mash well, and beat in with a fork two ounces of good butter, salt to taste, 

and the cream of a medium-sized cocoanut. (Shave off the inner brown skin, 

and grate, cover it with one gill of fresh milk and let it stand fifteen minutes, 

and then scald, drain carefully and squeeze the cocoanut through a 

cheese-cloth until every bit of cream has been expressed, and the 





meat is dry and powdery.) Add the cream to the potatoes, make very hot and beat 
lightly with a fork. Pile on a hot platter and sprinkle with the cocoanut, and garnish 
with paprika, chopped parsley, or both, alternating, and eggs poached in sweet oil. 



BAKED BANANAS (As prepared in their native lands) 
baking-dish and bake till the skins burst. 



PI 



ace bananas in a 



KOELE PALAU (Hawaiian) — Mash well half a dozen medium-sized boiled 
or baked sweet potatoes. Heat thoroughly and stir in the cream of a grated cocoanut. 

WEST INDIA OKRA — Remove the stems from two pounds of young tender 
okra, cover with salted water and boil until thick like mucilage, then add one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, a dash of cayenne, salt to taste, one teaspoonful of vinegar and 
some small slices of broiled ham. Stir until quite hot, and serve. 

SPANISH ONION RAREBIT — Boil two large onions until very soft, drain, 
chop, and return to the saucepan with a small piece of butter, milk, salt, pepper, dash of 
Tabasco sauce, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and one-half cupful of grated cheese. 
Stir until hot, and serve on toast. It should be the consistency of custard. 







MOUSSE DE JAMBON — Put through a meat-chopper one pound of well- 
cooked lean ham ; put in a mortar and pound very fine ; pass through a wire sieve and 
season with a pinch of cayenne. Add one glassful of dry champagne, one glassful of thick 
cream and one glassful of stiff chicken jelly and mix well together. Line a mold with 
a coating of good aspic, then set on ice, pour in the mixture and let it stand till firmly 
set. Remove from mold a few minutes before serving and pass with it lettuce mixed 
with French dressing. Tongue can be substituted for the ham. 

PIMIENTO MORRONES SALAD — (Spanish Peppers) — Drain the contents 
of a small can of Pimiento Morrones. Dry on a cloth and slice in rings, cut up an 
equal amount of celery fine and mix with the peppers ; add one cupful of small balls 
made of cream cheese rolled in fine cracker crumbs. Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs to a smooth paste with the oil drained from the peppers and, if liked, a small bit of 
garlic. Pour over it, stirring all the time, a good French dressing ; when well mixed 
add it to the salad, which place in a bed of lettuce leaves and toss until thoroughly 
mixed. 

VENETIAN SALAD DRESSING — Rub an anchovy quite smooth with a 
tablespoonful of olive oil and a teaspoonful of French mustard ; add three or more 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one of garlic vinegar and one of plain vinegar. Stir until creamy 
and serve in a sauceboat. 




CHEESE BALLS — Mix together one cupful of grated cheese, one-half cupful 
of fine bread crumbs, five drops of Worcestershire sauce, pinch of salt, dash of cay- 
enne, and one-half teaspoonful of made mustard, and, last of all, a well-beaten egg. 
Roll into small balls, place in a wire frying-basket, and just before they are to be 
served, plunge into boiling fat. Cook a light brown, and serve on a folded napkin. 



ALGERIAN HORS-D'CEUVRE — Select four fine lemons, wipe 
carefully, cut in halves, and scoop out the pulp. Remove the tough 
inner skin and seeds, and to the rest add one box of boneless sardines 





chopped fine, a spoonful of French mustard, two hard-boiled eggs chopped, a dash of 
Tabasco sauce and a little thick mayonnaise. Cut a slice from the bottom of the lemon 
cup in order that it may stand firmly on a round lettuce leaf ; fill each cup with the mix- 
ture. Garnish with chopped egg and two pieces of the rind cut like straws crossed on 
the top. 

SALPICON (Chilena) — Cut in slices one pint of cold veal, lamb or poultry, 
add two hard-boiled eggs, sliced, the leaves from four sprigs of young mint, one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onion juice, and the hearts of 
two heads of lettuce. Pour over all one-half cupful of French dressing, toss until thor- 
oughly mixed, and serve. 

RIPE OLIVE SALAD — Prepare for this salad by putting some dice of stale 
bread in a jar with some bits of dried red peppers, several days before. Take two 
cupfuls of these crumbs, two cupfuls of ripe olives, and one-half cupful of young onions 
sliced thin. Pour over all a cupful of mayonnaise, and serve on a bed of lettuce. If 
onions are disliked, chopped cucumber pickle can be substituted. 

PATE DE FOIE-GRAS MOUSSE — Take the contents of a large-sized 
can of pate and rub to a smooth paste. Have dissolved one tablespoonful of gelatine in 
a little hot water. Cool, and add to it one cupful of thick cream, and whip to a froth. 
Fold it carefully into the pate, season with salt and cayenne to taste, and pour into indi- 
vidual molds, which cover carefully and pack in ice and salt for an hour. Serve on 
leaves of lettuce which have been dipped in French dressing. 




CUCUMBER JELLY — Peel and cut off the ends of four large cucumbers, 

cut into slices, and stew in a quart of water, a small slice of onion, a dash of 

cayenne, and a small teaspoonful of salt. When the cucumbers are soft, stir 

in a half box of gelatine that has been soaked in a cupful of water ; stir until 

the gelatine is dissolved, then strain through a fine sieve ; pour into a 

fish-mold, and put on ice to harden ; have ready a salmon-trout or 






rock-fish which has been boiled whole and allowed to cool. Place the fish carefully in 
the mold and pour the remainder of the jelly around it and put on ^ce. Garnish with 
sliced lemon, and place on a bed of lettuce with a green mayonnaise around it. 

RINCONITA SALAD — Boil separately until tender one cupful each of string 
beans, green peas, asparagus tips, and the hearts of four artichokes, cut in slices ; mix 
and place on ice. When thoroughly chilled, add a rich mayonnaise, place on a bed of 
lettuce leaves, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and olives. 

GASPACHO OR ANDALUSIAN SALAD — Put a layer of stale bread, 
cut into small slices, into the bottom of a bowl, sprinkle plentifully with oil and a little 
vinegar ; add slices of Spanish onion, tomatoes and green cucumbers, sprinkle with salt 
and chopped red sweet peppers, without the seeds ; add another layer of bread, then 
another of the vegetables. Let it stand for an hour in a cool place, then scatter a hand- 
ful of bread crumbs on top, and moisten well with oil and vinegar. 

CHEESE CANAPES — Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick ; cut 
into shapes with a pastry cutter, and fry to a very delicate brown in smoking-hot fat ; 
make a paste of the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of thick cream, and thicken it with 
grated Parmesan cheese ; spread on the toast, and sprinkle with paprika. Put in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes and serve at once. 

OYSTER SALAD — Choose fine, ripe tomatoes, skin and take out centers. 
Fill with a dozen California or Blue Point oysters, some finely chopped celery, a dash 
of Tabasco sauce, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. Place each tomato on a 
bed of lettuce leaves, and cover with mayonnaise. 



HUNTER'S SALAD — Cut cold wild ducks into thin slices and mar- 
inate in French dressing for several hours in a cold place. Shred a large 
head of celery into long thin strips, place in a salad-bowl and pile the 
meat in the center. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. 





PINEAPPLE SALAD (Honolulu) — Pare and pull into pieces a fresh pine- 
apple, add one-fourth as much finely cut celery, dress with mayonnaise, and serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

CARDINAL SALAD — Slice cold-boiled potatoes into a bowl ; add one-fourth 
as many cold-boiled beets, cut into slices or cubes ; grate part of an onion over it, and 
mix well with mayonnaise. In making potato salad, always use the German potatoes. 







ALMOND PUDDING — Grate one pound of sweet almonds and four ounces 
of bitter almonds (or use the prepared almond paste), and mix with one pound of pow- 
dered sugar. Stir three-fourths of a pound of sweet butter to a cream, beat in four 
whole eggs and the yolks of two more. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour, then the 
almond paste. When well mixed cover the sides and bottom of a well-buttered pud- 
ding-dish, keeping some of the mixture for the top ; fill with apples which have been 
peeled, quartered, and boiled in white wine and sugar until tender, and then allowed to 
cool. Cover with the paste and cook in a medium oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Vanilla Sauce — Boil one cupful of cream with one tablespoonful of sugar and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, and while hot stir in the yolks of three eggs. 

HUEVOS CHIMBOS (Chilena) — Beat the yolks of a dozen very fresh eggs 
until thick and very light. Pour into a buttered cake pan and place this in a larger pan 
of boiling water. Bake in the oven about half an hour or until when tried with a straw 
it is found to be done. Cool and cut into diamond shaped pieces. Make a syrup by 
boiling a pound of sugar and two cups of water until thick as honey. Simmer the pieces 
in this until they are saturated then stick into them pieces of almond which have been 
blanched and cut into thin strips. Serve cold. 




CHARTREUSE OF STRAWBERRIES — Make one quart of jelly Havored 
with lemon peel alone. Before it hardens take two plain molds, one an inch larger than 
the other. Pour a little jelly in the large one and place on it a layer of berries cut in 
halves. Add enough jelly to make a smooth surface and set on ice. When firm, place 
smaller mold carefully in the middle, and outside of it disperse berries cut as above, fill- 
ing up space with jelly. Place on ice. Whip one pint of cream, add a cupful or 
more of berry juice mixed with gelatine dissolved with water. When jelly is hard 
slip out the inner mold by pouring a little warm water in, and fill the space with 
the cream. Set on ice for an hour, and serve. Use apricots in the same manner. 



APRICOT BISQUE — Butter a pudding-dish and dust with cake 
crumbs. Place a row of halved apricots on the bottom. Take yolks 





and the whites of four eggs beaten together, one cupful of powdered sugar, juice of one 
lemon, a teaspoonful of vanilla, a bit of salt, and a cupful of warmed flour, for the bisque 
mixture. The water beneath the double boiler must be warm, but not too hot. Put 
the ingredients in the upper part in the following order : first the sugar, then beat in 
each egg five minutes separately, then add the rest in the order named. Pour the bisque 
mixture over the fruit and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 




PEACH PUDDING — Butter a pudding-dish and cover the bottom with neat 
slices of stale bread, from which the crusts have been removed. On each piece place 
one-half a ripe, firm peach, skin down ; fill each with a teaspoonful of fine sugar and 
a small piece of butter, occasionally adding more sugar. Just before they are quite 
cooked add a teaspoonful of any kind of jam. Serve in the same dish, either hot or 
cold, with cream. 

LECHE CREME — Make a thin custard of the yolks of three eggs. Butter a 
pudding-dish and line with lady fingers or stale cake. Place a layer of cake on the 
bottom, cover it with the custard, sprinkle with brandy, cinnamon and grated rind of 
lemon. Repeat the layers having the custard last. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, 
■add some finely chopped blanched almonds, and a little cinnamon. Spread this on top 
and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. Serve cold. 

SPANISH HEDGEHOG — Thoroughly saturate a round sponge cake with 
sweet Spanish wine. Stick all over the surface blanched almonds cut in strips. Just 
before serving pour around it a cold, rich Spanish cream which is made of six eggs, one 
pint of milk, one teacupful of sugar, and one stick of cinnamon, boiled until thick. 



CREME SAMBA YON — Separate the whites from the yolks of six fresh 

eggs. Put the yolks in a saucepan with half a cupful of powdered sugar and 

one cupful of rum. Beat well together, put on a quick fire, and stir rapidly 

one way with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken. Then remove 

at once, or it will curdle. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a 

45 






froth, pour into glasses and serve hot. A pint of champagne or sherry can be substi- 
tuted for the rum, and the cream partly frozen before served. 

BANANA PUDDING (Hawaiian) — Grate a cocoanut and pour over it one 
cupful of sweet milk and bring to a boil very slowly. Drain carefully and squeeze the 
meat in a piece of cheese-cloth until every bit of the cream has been expressed and the 
meat is dry. Mix with the cream two tablespoonfuls of pia or arrowroot, and pour it 
over half a dozen chopped bananas. Bake in a pudding-dish for twenty minutes. Serve 
hot or cold. 

PIEPIELE (Hawaiian) — Peel and grate four large, raw, sweet potatoes and add 
the cream of a cocoanut (see recipe above), one tablespoonful of sugar, with a little of 
the grated cocoanut from which the cream has been squeezed, sprinkled on top. Bake 
in a pudding-dish in a slow oven. 

HAUPIA (Hawaiian) — Mix one-quarter of a cupful of pia or arrowroot with 
the cream squeezed from a grated cocoanut. (See recipe for Banana Pudding). Put in 
saucepan with a little sugar and stir until cooked. 

KULOLO (Hawaiian) — Mix with three cupfuls of Tarcena (prepared taro 
flower), two cupfuls of cocoanut cream (see recipe for Banana Pudding), two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, and the grated meat of one cocoanut which has not been squeezed. When 
well mixed pour into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake nearly an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

BANANA COMPOTE — Remove the skins from eight bananas and stew 
gently in a glass of melted currant jelly for twenty minutes. Take out the bananas, 
cut lengthwise, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the syrup over them and serve 
cold. A variation of this dish is to make the syrup of claret or port and sugar. 

SOUTH CAROLINA CURDS — Heat one quart of rich 






milk until lukewarm ; stir into it one large spoonful of liquid rennet, and let it set. Drain 
off the whey and pour the curds into a perforated milk-pan or a clean basket to drip for 
twenty-four hours. Turn out on a platter and serve with powdered sugar, cinnamon, 
and very thick cream. Strawberry jam may be used instead of the cinnamon. If too 
dry, a little of the cream may be beaten into the curds. 

CREME DE RIZ A LA MONTPELLIER (Rice Cream) — Put one cup- 
ful of rice, thoroughly washed, in a double boiler, with one-third water and two-thirds 
milk, slightly sweetened, and heated to boiling point. Flavor with vanilla, using a piece 
of the bean, and allowing it to cook for ten minutes in the milk. When the rice is well 
done and quite dry, arrange it while hot, as lightly as possible, in a round or oval ring on 
a large flat dish, and put in the refrigerator. Whip and sweeten a pint and a half of 
thick cream, and put on ice also. When it is to be served, heap the cream in the center, 
and sprinkle the rice plentifully with small candied hruits, bits of different-colored jellies, 
or small preserved fruits from which the syrup has been thoroughly drained. The pud- 
ding must be served very cold. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING — Mash two cupfuls of cold sweet potatoes 
through a sieve ; rub one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, and the yolks 
of six eggs to a cream, and add two tablespoonfuls of brandy, two of sherry, the juice 
and rind of an orange or lemon, and one-half teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice 
and ginger, and a grating of nutmeg. Stir into the potato pulp, and fold in the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a froth. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

MONKEY PUDDING — Cut the crusts hrom slices of stale bread and 
butter thickly. Place them in a pudding-dish and cover well with New Orleans 
molasses and bake in a slow oven. 



MAN JAR BLANCO (Chilena) — Dissolve two cupfuls of loaf 
sugar in six of milk and bring to a boil over a quick fire. Boil hard. 






stirring all the time, until it becomes as thick as honey, then let it cool. This can be used 
as filling for layer cake or spread on bread instead of butter and it will keep a long 
time. 

SPANISH CHOCOLATE CREAM — Beat the yolks of six eggs, put them in 
a bowl with three ounces of grated chocolate, one-quarter of a pound of sugar, and one 
pint of cream. Stir these ingredients well and pour into a double boiler. Stir one way 
until it thickens, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Strain into a bowl, beat one-half 
pint of cream till thick, and stir in one and one-half ounces of dissolved gelatine. Mix 
this with the chocolate cream very lightly, and pour into a mold which has been oiled 
with olive oil, and put on ice to harden. 

MARRONS A LA ROMA — Boil one pound of Italian chestnuts fifteen min- 
utes, then remove shells and skins, and put back on the stove to boil with one cupful of 
milk, until tender enough to rub through a colander. Butter a mold well, and line thickly 
with the pulp, then add a layer of good, thick apple sauce, colored a delicate pink with 
currant jelly ; then another layer of chestnuts, and again the apple. Squeeze some lemon 
juice over all and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out on a platter and surround with 
whipped cream, colored with a little of the melted currant jelly. 

FRANGIPANE — Beat four eggs together slightly and mix well with four table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; thin with one quart of fresh milk, well sweetened ; add one-half a 
cupful of orange-flower water and six finely powdered macaroons. Pour this mixture 
into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until it thickens, then pour it over any kind of 
preserved fruit, and bake in a slow oven one-half hour. Serve cold. 



JESSINA SULTANA — Sift one-half pound of flour in a bowl. Into 

the center of this put six ounces of butter and the yolks of two eggs, grated 

peel of one-half a lemon and two tablespoonfuls of water. Mix to a firm 

paste. Blend four ounces of almond paste with the whites of two eggs, 

mix the two pastes together on a floured board and work until per- 





fectly smooth, then place on ice for an hour. Fill the shells of two meringues with pink 
whipped cream. Roll out the paste one-half an inch thick, cut into a round piece, 
lay on buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, put one quart of fine 
strawberries in the center and cover with thick cream. Make a border of the meringue 
kisses with large strawberries between. 

CAJETITAS (Chilena) — Make a thick syrup by boiling one pound of sugar and 
a cup of water. Beat the whites of six eggs very stiff and pour slowly over them, stir- 
ring constantly, the hot syrup. Add the juice and grated rind of a lemon and one pound 
of chopped walnut meats from which the brown skins have been removed. Pour into 
small paper boxes and bake in a slow oven until slightly colored on top. 

ALMOND CUSTARD (Mexican) — Beat the yolks of three eggs with a little 
milk and stir in a quart and a half of fresh milk and sugar enough to sweeten. Blanch 
four ounces of almonds and chop and pound half of them and add to the milk. Cook 
in a double boiler until it thickens, then add the rest of the almonds which have been 
browned in the oven and then pounded. Bring to a boil quickly and pour into a fire- 
proof dish to cool, and dust with fine sugar. The next day brown it lightly in the oven 
and serve. 








MANDARIN SHERBET — Grate the rind of one dozen Mandarin oranges, 
remove the peel, and squeeze ; add the juice o{ two dozen more and the juice of two 
lemons, and enough water to make one quart of liquid. Sweeten well and partly 
freeze, then open the freezer and stir in the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; 
close the freezer, pack with ice and salt, and let stand for an hour. 

LALLA ROOKH — Whip the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, also one pint 
of thick cream ; beat the yolks of the eggs very light, and stir in one cupful of fine 
sugar, the juice of two lemons, and one cupful of orange juice. When very light and 
frothy, fold in the cream and then the beaten whites of the eggs ; pour into a mold, 
cover tightly, pack in a bucket, with ice and salt, four hours before serving. 

TURKISH SHERBET — Boil two cupfuls of granulated sugar with three-fourths 
of a pint of water to a clear syrup ; skim carefully, and when cold stir into it three-fourths 
of a pint of lemon juice and one cupful of clear white stock, and freeze. 

ITALIAN SHERBET — Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and one cupful of 
water. When cool, add one-half cupful of lemon juice, one cupful of orange juice, and 
one quart of peach pulp (or any other fruit will do) ; mix and rub through a sieve. Pour 
in a tin, and pack in ice and salt until frozen — from two to three hours. 

RICE ICE-CREAM — Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice in one quart of milk, with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar and a small bit of vanilla bean, or stick cinnamon, for two 
hours. When cold, stir in two ounces of blanched and chopped almonds ; add one 
and one-half pints of whipped cream and the beaten whites of two eggs. Partly 
freeze, and serve in punch-glasses, with Kremette poured over It. 



GRAPE MOUSSE — Stir one cupful of grape juice into a pint of thick 
cream ; add one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and sugar enough to sweeten ; 
whip until thick, and pour into a mold ; pack in ice and salt, and freeze 
three hours. Garnish with a fine sprinkling of pistachio nuts. 





CREOLE PRALINES — Put two cupfuls of granulated sugar into a porcelain 
kettle and add enough water to dissolve it (only a few spoonfuls). Let it boil until it 
forms a syrup and then add the grated meat of one small cocoanut. Stir until it begins 
to boil or until it forms a thread when dropped from the spoon. Then beat it until it 
thickens and shape it into round flat cakes, about two inches across, on paraffine paper. 
Reserve a small coffee-cupful of the mixture which color pink, and drop a small button 
of it in the middle of each praline. 

SANTA BARBARA PANOCHA — Boil two pounds of brown sugar with a 
cupful of cream until it forms a thread between the fingers. Remove from the fire and 
add one pound of shelled English walnuts or pecans slightly chopped. Beat hard until 
it begins to thicken, then pour on buttered paper m round cakes. 








RICE MUFFINS— Mash two cupfuls of boiled rice through a sieve. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs very light, and add ; then three cupfuls of milk and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, then sift in one cupful of flour to which one-half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder and one teaspoonful of salt have been added. Last of all, fold in the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and bake in muffin rings or gem pans, in a quick oven 
for about fifteen minutes. By cooking this batter in well-greased waffle-irons you have 
rice waffles. 

SALLY LUNN — Scald one pint of milk and melt in it three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of sugar. Pour it slowly into three 
cupfuls of sifted flour and beat hard until smooth and light, — firom seven to ten minutes. 
Then stir in one-half cake of yeast dissolved in a little warm water ; cover the bowl and 
set in a warm place for the batter to rise. The next morning add three eggs well beaten, 
and pour the batter into a buttered tin to rise for twenty minutes. Then bake in a quick 
oven and serve very hot. 

SWEET POTATO WAFFLES — Mash two cupfuls of boiled sweet potatoes 
through a sieve, and add two well-beaten eggs, first the yolks and then the whites ; add 
half a cupful of sugar and beat again, one cupful of melted butter and then one pint of 
milk. Now add about four tablespoonfuls of flour, enough to make a thin batter. Pour 
into greased waffle-irons and cook over a quick fire. 

HOMINY BREAD — Boil until soft one pint of fine hominy. When cool add 
one tablespoonful of butter, three tablespoonfuls of corn meal (scalded), three eggs well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of salt and one pint of milk. Melt a teaspoonful of butter in a 
baking-pan, pour in the batter and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 



SOFT CORN BREAD — Have one cupful of boiling water in which 
one teaspoonful of salt has been melted, in a saucepan, and sprinkle slowly 
into it, stirring all the time, one-half cupful of white cornmeal. Stir until 
it is a thick mush and simmer for twenty minutes, then add one pint of 





hot milk, or enough to make a thin batter, and stir until smooth, then cool. Have two 
eggs well beaten, stir them carefully into the batter and pour all into a heated pudding- 
dish in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Give a last stir, and bake 
until brown. 

AUNT SALLY'S HOECAKE — Scald one pint of white cornmeal with enough 
boiling water to make a stiff dough. Have the water salted and one tablespoonful of 
lard melted in it. Knead the dough a little and form it into flat cakes about a quarter of 
an inch thick and six inches across. Cook these cakes on a griddle or in an iron frying- 
pan without any grease, turning frequently, to prevent burning. In the South they are 
cooked in the hot ashes in the open fire-place — hence the name. 

CRISSINI OR BREAD STICKS — Cut a small portion from risen bread dough 
that is ready to be made into loaves. Roll into pieces about the length and thickness of 
macaroni. Place in rolls in a greased baking-tin one inch apart, and set to rise again. 
When double in size, bake in a quick oven. They will then be tender like rolls. When 
cold bake in a slow oven until quite dry and crisp. Serve hot or cold. 







CONFEDERATE DAUGHTERS CAKE — Cream one-half cupful of sweet 
butter with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar until very light ; add one-half teaspoonful 
of almond flavoring and one cupful of milk, and mix carefully. Have ready, sifted 
together, three cupfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of baking-powder, and add. Last 
of all, fold in the whites of six eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in a moderate oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. When it is cold take a strong linen thread and divide it into three 
layers, between which put the following mixture : Blanch five ounces of almonds ; pound 
them in a mortar to a fine paste ; add carefully to one pint of thick cream, sweeten, and 
beat until stiff, when it is ready for use. Decorate the top with the cream and halves 
of the almonds made to represent the petals of a flower, with one-half a candied cherry 
in the center of each. 

MOCHA CAKE — Beat three eggs well, whites and yolks separately ; cream 
one cupful of granulated sugar with the yolks, one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, one 
tablespoonful of milk, and then one cupful of sifted flour, to which one teaspoonful of 
baking-pov/der has been added. When these have been well mixed, fold in the well- 
beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven, and when 
cold divide into four layers with a strong linen thread. Brush each layer with some 
strong, black coffee, then fill with the following mixture : 

Filling — Cream one-half pound of unsalted butter with one-quarter pound of 
sugar, stirring till smooth. Beat in, one by one, the yolks of three eggs, and then strong 
black coffee to taste. Spread between layers and on the top of the cake. 




JAPANESE TEA WAFERS — Break the white of one egg in a bowl ; add 

one tablespoonful of sugar, stir a moment, and then add one tablespoonful of flour 

and one-half teaspoonful of softened butter ; beat until well mixed (it should be 

about as thick as cream). Pour a teaspoonful of this batter on the reverse side 

of a large baking-pan, slightly greased, and with the back of the spoon spread 

it until about four inches in diameter and almost as thin as tissue paper. 

Bake in a moderate oven till brown, and while still warm roll around 

a curling-stick. Keep in a covered tin. 





WALNUT WAFERS — Mix one-half cupful of brown sugar with one-half 
cupful of white, and cream with one-half cupful of butter. When smooth, add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and beat hard ; then one-half cupful of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, and, last of all, one-half cupful of sifted flour. Drop teaspoonfuls of the batter 
on a greased baking-tin, about two inches apart ; place one-half of a walnut on each, 
and bake in a very slow oven until brown, about ten minutes. Keep in a covered tin. 

GENOESE PASTRY — Warm half a cupful of butter until a little soft and beat 
to a cream, with half a cupful of sugar. Break in an egg and beat until quite smooth ; 
then add, one by one, three more eggs, beating hard, and then half a cupful of flour ; 
pour it, half an inch thick, on a buttered tin and bake till done — about ten or fifteen 
minutes. Turn it upside down on a sieve to cool, and when cold, spread thickly with 
apricot jam, and then with chocolate icing. Put it in the oven a moment, then cool and 
cut into nice shapes. 

TORTAS DE POLVORON (Spanish Cookies) — Beat to a cream one pound 
of lard, one pound of powdered sugar and two eggs. Add two tablespoonfuls each of 
cinnamon and cloves and four tablespoonfuls of roasted " ajoujoli " or sesame seed, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Stir in a pint of flour gradually and knead thoroughly. Roll 
out this paste until it is about half an inch thick, cut with biscuit-cutter, place in a pan 
well apart from each other and bake in a moderate oven. When done sprinkle thickly 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon while still warm. 








THE GERALDINE CUP — 

The claret cup jug should be glass of pure crystal. 

Nothing meaner should hold this rare whet for the whistle ; 

It ought to be generous, portly, and clear. 

And this is the way that you fill it, my dear : 

Two ponies, or less, of fine Cognac you use. 

Ditto Benedictine or Yellow Chartreuse ; 

The juice of two lemons is next to go in 

With a curl of the peel and some slices cut thin ; 

Then if in your garden no borage you find, 

You've only to plump in some cucumber rind ; 

Of sugar the quantum's a matter of guess — 

For the belles, say two spoonfuls, — for men, rather less. 

The foundation, of course, is a quart of Bordeaux, 

The best is not wasted, the meanest won't go. 

" He that hath shall have more," not of thanks, though, I ween, 

Who for claret gives logwood ; brandy, benzine. 

Now as brick is to lime and lime is to mortar 

You need must " fizz " in a good Soda water ; 

Add a syphon of this, and this point please master — 

You're safe only with Club, or with water from Shasta. 

Then the garnishing comes, that deft finishing touch 

Which completes the good work and of little makes much, — 

A handful of berries adorns just the place, 

And a bouquet of mint is the last crowning grace. 

TEA PUNCH (twelve glasses) — Squeeze one-half a dozen lemons 
and grate the rind of three. Add three quarts of water and sugar enough 
to make palatable lemonade, and boil. When boiling pour it over twelve 
teaspoonfuls of tea. Let this steep for five minutes, strain, cool and pour 
it into glasses filled with cracked ice. 





^ ti n c 1) e s 



CAROLINA PINEAPPLE PUNCH — Pull to pieces with a fork one pine- 
apple and soak in one quart of French brandy for twenty-four hours in a covered bowl, 
then strain. Make a rich syrup of one pound of sugar and one cupful of water. Mix 
with the brandy and dilute it with one quart of freshly drawn cold tea. When ready 
to serve add one syphon of Soda water, a few cubes of pineapple, and a block of ice. 
Sprinkle a large handful of wild rose leaves on top. This can be bottled, and if corked 
tightly will keep indefinitely. 

EGG-NOG — Separate twelve eggs and beat the yolks fifteen minutes, then 
add twelve scant tablespoonfuls of very fine sugar, and beat until the grains are quite 
dissolved (from fifteen to twenty minutes). Beat in twelve tablespoonfuls of fine French 
brandy and twelve of fine old rum. Grate half a nutmeg in six cupfuls of milk, and 
add very slowly to the mixture ; then add twelve tablespoonfuls of thick cream whipped 
stiff. Last of all, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth and give a last hard 
beating. The art of making good egg-nog lies entirely in the beating. If it is made 
in any quantity the labor should be divided between two or more. 

PUNCH — Boil for ten minutes the peel of three lemons, one handful of allspice 
and one of cloves, in one and one-half pints of water. Strain into a large bowl and 
add one pint of strong black tea, two bottles of whiskey, two bottles of brandy, and 
sugar to taste. When ready to use add one bottle of champagne, maraschino and ice. 







Catle of 
Wtis\)tQ anti jHeasurcs 

Four teaspoonfuls of liquid equal to one tablespoonful 

Four tablespoonfuls of liquid equal to one-half gill, one-quarter cupful 

One tablespoonful of liquid equal to one wineglassful 

One tablespoonful of liquid equal to one-half ounce 

One pint of liquid equal to one pound 

Two gills of liquid equal to one-half pint, one cupful 

One kitchen cupful of liquid equal to one-half pint 

One heaping quart of sifted flour equal to one pound 

Four cupfuls of flour equal to one quart or one pound 

One rounded tablespoonful of flour equal to one-half ounce 

Three cupfuls of commeal equal to one pound 

One cupful of butter equal to one-half pound 

One pint of butter equal to one pound 

One tablespoonful of butter equal to one ounce 

Butter the size of an egg equal to two ounces 

Butter the size of a walnut equal to one ounce 

One solid pint of chopped meat equal to one pound 

Ten eggs equal to one pound 

A dash of pepper equal to one-eighth teaspoonful or three shakes 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar equal to one pound 

One pint of granulated sugar equal to one pound 

Two and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar equal to one pound 







Soups 

Barcelona OUa 1 

Bisque d'Ecrevisses 2 

Bouillabaisse 1 

Casuela 3 

Chestnut 2 

Chicken Sambayon 3 

Cocido or OUa Podrida (Madrid) 4 

Gumbo File 4 

Hindustani Chicken Broth for Invalids 3 

Hindustani Cocoanut Soup 1 

Hindustani Soup Stock 1 

Lobster 2 

Onion Soup of Northern Italy 5 

Peanut Bisque 3 

Pimiento Bisque 4 

Spaghetti Soup 4 

Shell Fish 

Canape Lorenzo 6 

Clams and Rice (Mexican) 8 

Crab Gumbo 6 

Crab Jambalaya 7 

Crab Souffle ■ 

Creole Soft-Shell Crabs 6 

Lobster a la Cardinal 8 

Oyster Bundles ' 

Shrimp Fritters 8 

Shrimp Gumbo 7 

Soft-Shell Crabs (Italian Monastery) 7 

Fish 

Baked Halibut 10 

Escabeche " 

Fish Court-bouillon (Creole) 9 

Fish a la Guaymas 10 

Flounders a la Majouez 9 

Mexican Cod 11 

Planked Smelts 9 

Sole Neapolitan 11 

Stewed Fish 9 

Turban of Fish 10 



Fish Sauces 

Barracuda Sauce 13 

Chile Sauce 12 

Garlic Sauce 12 

Genoese Sauce 13 

Kaihelo or Fish Sauce (Hawaiian). 12 

Mayonnaise Verte 12 

Salza 12 

Sauce Italienne 13 

Spanish Sauce 12 

Eggs 

Eggs a I'Ardenaise 14 

Eggs a la Bonne Cuisine 14 

Eggs a la Durango 15 

Eggs Fricasseed with Italian Sauce 15 

Eggs Scrambled with Mushrooms 15 

Eggs a la Stork 14 

Eggs with Tomatoes 14 

Egg Timbales 15 

Entrees 

Albondigas (Mexican) 16 

Albondigas (Peruvian) 16 

Andalousian Tripe 17 

Beef a la Milanaise 17 

Chanfaina of Liver (Spanish) 18 

Carbonada (Chilena) 22 

Chile Con Came (Mexican) 22 

Deviled Chops 16 

Deviled Meat 18 

Empanadais (Chilena) 22 

Elstof ado de Cordero 20 

Fritura Mixta 17 

Grillades a la Creole 20 

Hachis a la Toulouseiine 1 

Kidneys Los Angeles 19 

Liver and Anchovy 19 

Lomo 17 

Okra Gumbo Stew 19 

Oysters and Potatoes 21 

Sausage and Cabbage a la Milanaise 20 





3vititx 




Entrees Continued 

South Park Sweetbreads 21 

Spanish Frico ■^" 

Spanish Tongue lo 

Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise 21 

Sweetbreads and Oyster Pie 21 

Terrapin "^ 

Veal Cutlets a la Toulouse 1' 

Poultry and Game 

Blanquette of Turkey 26 

Creme de Volaille 26 

Chicken a la Bordeaux 27 

Chaud-froid of Chicken 25 

Chicken Curry (Hindustani) 24 

Chicken Daube (Creole) 25 

Chicken a I'ltalienne 27 

(Fritter Batter) 27 

Hawaiian Chicken ,27 

Chicken a la Milanaise 24 

Chicken with Oysters 29 

Chicken Picante 25 

Portuguese Chicken 28 

Mobile Bay Gumbo 29 

Pigeon a la Creole 28 

Salmi of Duck with Olives 29 

Salmi of Quail 28 

Smothered Chicken 26 

Spanish Pie 30 

Turkish Pilau 24 

Macaroni, Rice, Etc. 

Chilely a la Roseleaf Club 31 

Chile Colorado Sauce (Mexican) 33 

Color (Red Lard) 32 

Enchiladas (Mexican) 33 

Frijoles 31 

Italian Macaroni, Spaghetti, Tagliarini, 

Arigati, Etc 32 

Mushroom Sauce 33 

Neapolitan Rice 31 

Polenta 32 



Ravioli 33 

(Farce for Ravioli) 33 

Rice a la Milanaise 32 

Spanish Rice 31 

Vegetables 

Ajiaco (Peruvian Peppers) 37 

Artichoke Fricassee 36 

Artichokes a 1' Inferno 36 

Artichokes Genoese 35 

Asparagus a la Milanaise 35 

Baked Bananas 39 

Baked Tomatoes 36 

Fried Artichokes (Italian) 35 

Colache 37 

Koele Palau (Hawaiian) 39 

Peppers Stuffed with Corn 37 

Pimiento Timbales 36 

Potatoes a la Batangos 38 

Potatoes a la Cannes 38 

Spanish Onion Rarebit 39 

Stuffed Squash 37 

Timbales of Spinach and Green Peas 35 

Tomatoes a la Perugia 38 

West India Okra 39 

Zucchetti (Italian Squash) 35 

Salads 

Algerian Hors-d'CEuvre 40 

Cardinal 43 

Cheese Balls 40 

Cheese Canapes 42 

Cucumber Jelly 41 

Gaspacho ( Andalusian) 42 

Hunter's Salad 42 

Mousse de Jambon 40 

Oyster 42 

Pate de Foie-Gras Mousse 41 

Pineapple Salad (Honolulu) 43 

Pimiento Morrones (Spanish Peppers) . . 40 

Ripe Olive 41 

Rinconita 42 

Salpicon (Chilena) 41 

Venetian Salad Dressing 40 ' *' 





Desserts 

Almond Custard (Mexican) 49 

Almond Pudding 44 

Apricot Bisque 44 

Banana Compote 46 

Banana Pudding (Hawaiian) 46 

Cajetitas 49 

Cheutreuse of Strawberries 44 

Creme de Riz a la Montpellier (Rice Cream) 47 

Creme Sambayon 45 

Frangipane 48 

Haupia (Hawaiian) 46 

Huevos Chimbos (Chilena) 44 

Jessina Sultana 48 

Kulolo (Hawaiian) 46 

Leche Creme 45 

Manjar Blanco (Chilena) 47 

Marrons a la Roma 48 

Monkey Pudding 47 

Peach Pudding 45 

Piepiele (Hawaiian) 46 

Spanish Chocolate Cream 47 

Spanish Hedgehog 45 

Sweet Potato Pudding 47 

South Carolina Curds 46 

ces 

Grape Mousse 50 

Italian Sherbet 50 

Lalla Rookh 50 

Mandarin Sherbet 50 

Rice Ice-Cream 50 

Turkish Sherbet 50 



Candies 

Creole Pralines 51 

Santa Barbara Panocha 51 

Breads 

Aunt Sally's Hoecake 53 

Crissini or Bread Sticks 53 

Hominy Bread 52 

Rice Muffins 52 

Sally Lunn 52 

Soft Corn Bread 52 

Sweet Potato Waffles 52 

Cakes 

Confederate Daughters Cake 54 

Genoese Pastry 55 

Japanese Tea Wafers 54 

Mocha Cake 54 

Tortas de Polvoron (Spanish Cookies) .... 55 
Walnut Wafers 55 

Punches, Etc. 

Carolina Pineapple Punch 57 

Egg-Nog 57 

Geraldme Cup 56 

Punch 57 

Tea Punch 56 

Table of Weights and Measures 58 




AUG lOISOf 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 

m 



