BLOOD EXAMINATION 

AND 

ITS VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 



BLOOD EXAMINATION 



AND 



ITS VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 



BY 



CLAUD F. FOTHERGILL 

M.R.C.S. ENG. ; L.R.C.P. LOND. ', B.A. ; M.B. J B.C. 

CAMB. J GUY'S HOSPITAL AND THE LONDON 

SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINE. 



WITH A PREFACE 

BY 

MAJOR RONALD ROSS, F.R.S., C.B. 

PROFESSOR OF TROPICAL MEDICINE, UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL, ETC. 



LONDON 

HENRY KIMPTON 

13 FURNIVAL STREET, HOLBORN, B.C. 

GLASGOW : ALEXANDER* STENHOUSE, 

40 AND 42 UNIVERSITY AVENUE 

1907 




Copyright 
All Rights Reserved 



PREFACE 

MR FOTHERGILL has asked me to write a short 
preface for his useful little work. Every year 
the importance of blood examination in con- 
nection with disease is increasing ; and this 
is especially the case with Tropical Diseases. 
In malaria, filariasis, kala-azar, sleeping sick- 
ness, relapsing fever, and tick fever, the 
detection of parasites gives at once a definite 
diagnosis and a sure guide to treatment. 
Various serum-reactions are not less valuable ; 
and blood counts are frequently of great 
assistance. 

With regard to the last named, caution 
must always be urged as regards the "error 
of random sampling" the number of cor- 
puscles examined must be sufficiently large. 
It is to be hoped that the mathematicians will 
shortly tell us how many leucocytes, for in- 
stance, must be studied in making a differential 
leucocyte count, in order that the error shall 
be below any given percentage ; but at present 
this point is not sufficiently' considered; and 
we actually hear of differential counts being 



VI PREFACE 

made on a study of only 250, or even of 100, 
leucocytes. The safest rule to adopt is for the 
observer always to state the total number of 
cells examined by him, and never to content 
himself with giving the mere percentage. 

Illustrative cases are a useful feature of 
Mr Fothergill's tract ; and the whole work 
will, I think, be of assistance and interest to 
medical men in the Tropics. 

RONALD Ross. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE 

IN bringing this small work before the public, 
I lay no claim to originality, but trust that it 
may be of use to medical men in the Tropics, 
and others brought into contact with patients 
suffering from disease acquired abroad. 

I have endeavoured to point out that the 
examination of the blood may be of the utmost 
importance in the correct diagnosis of Tropical 
Disease, and with this object in view I have 
quoted a number of cases, which, I think, will 
bear careful perusal, for in almost each case 
was the diagnosis arrived at through blood 
examination. I hope also that the reference 
made to malaria and its differential diagnosis 
may prove of real value, for its forms of onset 
are so varied, whilst its blood ''picture" is so 
characteristic. 

CLAUD F. FOTHERGILL. 

BEECH HOLM, 
TUNBRIDGE WELLS. 

ist July 1907. 



vn 



BLOOD EXAMINATION 

AND ITS 

VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 

ALMOST within the last decade has the ex- 
amination of the blood been resorted to in 
disease, as an aid both to diagnosis and, in a 
lesser degree, to prognosis. Each year this 
method of investigation has achieved fresh 
importance, each year we have learnt more 
fully how to appreciate the significance of the 
changes seen microscopically, as well as the 
value of serum reactions, cultures from blood 
and alterations in its chemistry. 

So great has the advance been in this 
direction that nowadays, in any obscure 
"case," until examination of the blood has 
been performed, we should not feel that 
every means, not only of information,, but 
of possibly most valuable information, had 
been employed. 

If this is true of disease at home here in 



2 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

Great Britain, much more is it so of Tropical 
Disease, where we see such variations from 
the so-called normal course of a fever that 
we almost at times feel unjustified in describ- 
ing a normal course. Again, whilst at home 
blood examination is seldom diagnostic, in 
several important tropical diseases it is ab- 
solutely diagnostic, and this list will probably 
increase in proportion to the attention de- 
voted to this subject. As examples of disease 
where the fever chart is sometimes most 
atypical, we might quote as striking examples, 
typhoid in the tropics and malaria; and of 
diseases where blood examination may be ab- 
solutely diagnostic we have malaria, trypano- 
somiasis, filariasis, kala-azar, relapsing fever, 
and possibly a few others as, for instance, the 
septicsemic form of plague when a culture is 
obtained. 

The correct diagnosis of a disease may 
often mean the saving of a patient's life, or 
certainly a prolongation of his days, and 
so we are much to blame if we lightly lay 
aside this method of investigation, which, 
it may be, would prove the key to the 
riddle. 

We cannot, in a paper such as this, enter 
into the full technique of blood examination ; 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 3 

suffice it to say, that clean slides and cover 
slips should be used, and both fresh and stained 
blood films examined ; that we find the best 
staining reagents to be Leishman's stain, or 
hsematoxylin, counterstained with eosin ; that 
actual counts of red and white corpuscles per 
c. mm. and differential counts should be 
made and the colour index estimated ; that 
alteration of the shape or normal constituents 
of the blood be noted, that the plasma and cor- 
puscles should be examined for the presence 
of parasites or pigment, always first using a 
low power and then the oil immersion lens ; 
that attempts to obtain cultures from the 
blood be made if thought desirable, and its 
agglutinative power tested ; that if pus be 
suspected, examination for iodophilia be 
made. 

There are other methods of blood exam- 
ination, but at present insufficiently useful to 
allow us to refer to them here. 

For the purposes of this paper we shall 
consider that normal blood contains 

Red corpuscles in a man . . 5,000,000 per c. mm. 

Red corpuscles in a woman . 4,500,000 per c. mm. 

Haemoglobin per cent. . . * 100 

Colour index i 

White corpuscles 7>4o per c. mm. 



4 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

Differential count 

Polymorphonuclear . 62-70 per cent. 
Lymphocytes . . .. 20-30 
Large mononuclear * 4- 8 
Eosinophils . . . .0.5-4 
Basophils .... 0.5- 

It should be remembered that in children 
the polymorphonuclears vary from 28 to 40 per 
cent., and the small lymphocytes, being in- 
creased, vary between 40 and 60 per cent. 

The value of examining fresh blood films 
is very evident when we have to deal with 
malaria, trypanosomiasis, filariasis or spirilla. 

In malaria, not only do the movements of 
the parasites in the corpuscles once seen 
render a mistake in diagnosis almost impos- 
sible, but according to the activity of the 
movement we are also helped to judge as 
to whether the infection is benign tertian, 
quartan, or sub-tertian ; the pigment also 
shows up more distinctly in fresh films, and 
gives us further help in differentiation. 

Trypanosomes, spirilla and filaria, on account 
of the active movement they cause amongst the 
corpuscles, are usually fairly easily found in 
fresh films. 

Filaria nocturna embryos occur in the 
peripheral blood only at night, or by day in 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 5 

night workers, and vice versa in filaria 
diurna. 

It has seemed best to us to refer seriatim to 
various tropical diseases where blood examina- 
tion is of known value, rather than make 
several sub-divisions according to changes in 
the appearance and number of the corpuscles, 
the parasites in the blood, agglutinative re- 
actions, etc. etc. ; for by this method there 
would be much overlapping, since most diseases 
show more than one change in the blood, and, 
consequently, would have to appear in more 
than one sub-division. Also, we do not pro- 
pose to refer to all the changes seen, but 
rather to confine our attention to those which 
are of practical value. 

It is only fitting that malaria should be re- 
ferred to first : on account of its almost world- 
wide prevalence, its baneful effects upon 
mankind, the extremely varied forms of its on- 
set and its characteristic blood appearances. 

In few diseases does the examination of 
the blood afford us so comparatively easy a 
diagnosis, and in no other does it place us 
in so commanding a position as regards satis- 
factory treatment. 

If the case is one of malaria we should be 
able to find the parasites, and not only so, 



O BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

but in addition be able to diagnose the in- 
fection as benign tertian, quartan, or sub- 
tertian. 

In benign tertian the red corpuscle con- 
taining the parasite is enlarged and very pale ; 
the parasite shows very active amoeboid 
movement for the first twenty-four hours ; pig- 
ment then begins to appear in fine granules 
and of a lighter hue than in quartan ; by full 
growth the pigment has acquired a coarser 
appearance and darker hue. The pigment 
granules also show active vibration. Move- 
ment gradually ceases as maturity approaches. 
The full-grown parasite is about the size of a 
normal red corpuscle. Just before or during 
a rigor, sporocytes form in the red corpuscles 
containing 15 to 20 spores, arranged irregularly 
around the central pigment. The gametes 
are spherical in shape and occur free in the 
plasma, having escaped from the red cor- 
puscle before sporulation occurred. In benign 
tertian, and only in this type of malaria, the 
infected corpuscles show Schiifner's chromo- 
philic dots. 

In quartan the ring-form is smaller than 
the benign tertian at the same stage, and 
tends to assume an oblong form, lying across 
the corpuscle and slightly altering its shape ; 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 7 

the amoeboid movement is usually more slug- 
gish [we have, however, seen it most re- 
markably active] ; the pigment granules are 
coarser and blacker. The containing red 
corpuscle appears a shade darker than the 
surrounding ones, and is a trifle smaller. As 
sporulation approaches, the pigment makes its 
way to the centre, and 6 to 12 segments or 
spores form, very regularly arranged in daisy- 
like form, therein differing from benign ter- 
tian. The gamete is also spherical, but rather 
smaller than the benign tertian gamete. 

Sub-tertian ring-forms are smaller than 
either benign tertian or quartan ; they show 
active movement in the early stages and usually 
are seen towards the periphery of the red cor- 
puscle or actually on it. The pigment is very 
fine and scanty. The sporocyte only occurs 
in deep blood. The gamete is crescentic in 
outline, therein differing from the spherical 
gametes of benign tertian and quartan. 

The polymorphonuclear and large mono- 
nuclear leucocytes may contain ingested pig- 
ment, and occasionally, in quartan, a red 
corpuscle containing a parasite. 

If quinine has been administered no para- 
sites may be found in the "blood, except the 
crescents of sub-tertian. 



8 - BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

There is a definite value attached to the 
diagnosis not only of malaria, but also as to 
the type of the infection. 

If the type is sub-tertian we know that we 
have to deal with what is generally by far the 
most severe form, and a form in which at any 
time alarming symptoms may develop. 

This diagnosis, therefore, justifies maximal 
doses of quinine by the mouth, or better still 
grs. ix. of the bi-hydrochloride intramuscularly 
each day, until the symptoms abate and the 
temperature comes down. 

It is a remarkable fact that, in sub-tertian 
infections, quinine may have little effect when 
taken by the mouth, although a prompt 
beneficial result may be seen when injected 
intramuscularly. Further, patients who have 
suffered from quartan or benign tertian in- 
fection have, strange to say, if they wish after 
returning to England to remain free from 
attack, to continue the systematic use of 
quinine longer than those whose infection 
was sub-tertian. 

In the case of quartan the use of quinine 
should be continued for three years, in benign 
tertian two years, whilst only one year's sys- 
tematic use seems to be sufficient after 
sub-tertian. 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 

In malaria there is no leucocytosis, but 
rather a leucopenia ; Billings gives the average 
of 100 cases as 4323 leucocytes per c. mm., 
and Da Costa gives his average of 45 cases 
as 5622. 

The presence, therefore, of a leucocytosis 
will at once enable us to exclude malaria, or 
at least cause us to look for some complication, 
or some altogether additional affection. 

By the differential count we gain some 
valuable information, for in malaria there is 
an increase of the large mononuclears, rising 
in nearly all cases to over 14 per cent., and in 
some to as high as 30 per cent. ; we have, 
however, the record of a case where the para- 
sites were found and the large mononuclears 
were only 7 per cent. There are compara- 
tively few diseases with so high an average 
percentage of large mononuclears, and so this 
feature in itself becomes almost diagnostic. 

Trypanosomiasis and kala - azar frequently 
also show the same feature, and so have to 
be thought of; in addition they show a leuco- 
penia. 

Typhoid fever in the Tropics is peculiarly 
apt to be confounded with malaria, either at 
its onset or during its course'. A full examin- 
ation of the blood should prevent our falling 
B 



10 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

into error of diagnosis, for, although in both 
diseases we see absence of leucocytosis, yet 
in malaria we should find the parasites and 
the large mononuclear increase, whilst in 
typhoid we should expect a relative increase 
of the lymphocytes, which progressively go up 
as the disease advances. The Bacillus Typh- 
osus can also be cultured in bouillon from the 
the blood in 78 per cent, during the first week 
on the average of 700 cases, and in severe 
cases for longer. 

The Widal serum reaction, if obtained, will 
finally settle the diagnosis, for Cabot has 
collected 4339 cases of undoubted typhoid, 
divided amongst eighteen physicians, all of 
whom had performed at least 100 Widal re- 
actions, and he finds that the error is only 2 
per cent. The reaction can usually be first 
observed from the sixth to the eighth day a 
dilution of 20 should give the characteristic 
clumping in ten minutes inquiry should 
be made as to whether the patient has had 
typhoid before, for if so the reaction may 
occur as a result of that attack. 

A rapid diminution of haemoglobin is in 
favour of malaria as opposed to typhoid or 
pneumonia. In pneumonia, also, more often 
than not, there is a leucocytosis. 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE II 

Malaria has often been the diagnosis made 
when in reality the correct diagnosis should 
have been kala-azar, trypanosomiasis, relaps- 
ing fever, Malta fever, liver abscess, septic- 
aemia, cerebro-spinal meningitis, pyelitis and 
surgical kidney, lymphangitis, ulcerative en- 
docarditis, one of the anaemias, tubercle or 
syphilis, etc. On the other hand a diagnosis 
of dysentery, cholera, cerebral haemorrhage, 
gastritis, appendicitis, siriasis, puerperal fever 
has often been made, and more rarely insanity, 
where malaria was the disease in question. A 
blood examination would, in practically every 
case of the above list, have led correctly to 
the elimination of malaria where it did not 
exist, or to its discovery when present. 

We cannot, then, in consequence of the in- 
numerable mistakes made in diagnosis in 
tropical disease, too strongly emphasise the 
importance of examination of the blood. 

A speedy and correct diagnosis in tropical 
disease is of such vital importance in so many 
cases that to discover one's mistake a day or 
two later may prove useless. To diagnose 
siriasis or cerebral haemorrhage, when in reality 
the patient is suffering from malaria of a 
cerebral type, will probably result in the 
death of the patient, or at the best leave him 



12 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

with some impairment of his mental faculties. 
In children the cerebral type is especially 
severe, and the hyperpyrexia makes it still 
easier to fall into the mistaken diagnosis of 
siriasis. 

Or again, to diagnose as malaria and to 
treat trypanosomiasis with quinine, when 
atoxyl seems to be the only drug which has 
a really valuable influence upon the disease, 
is almost as bad as leaving the patient un- 
attended to die ; or to bathe a liver abscess 
with quinine, after diagnosing the patient's 
symptoms as those of malaria, is either to 
allow him to die under the wrong diagnosis 
and treatment or, should the correct diagnosis 
be arrived at later, to bring him to operation 
in a very unsatisfactory condition. 

A patient coming with the history of a 
sudden onset of haemorrhage from the bowel 
and stomach may completely put one off one's 
guard, and acute dysentery may be the diag- 
nosis made rather too casually, where malaria 
parasites might be found swarming in the 
blood. 

Dysentery of the amoebic type showed an 
average leucocytosis of 10,600 in Futcher's 38 
cases; if complicated with abscess, as in 15 
cases, the average was 18,350. Schlayer, in 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 13 

1 1 cases with abscess, found the average to 
be still higher viz. 25,000. In one case with 
abscess Osier found as low a count as 6000. 

In a case of suspected hepatic abscess aleuco- 
cytosis is very suggestive, but its absence by no 
means excludes abscess ; especially is this true 
of a capsulated one. The iodophilia test for 
the presence of pus is often most valuable- -if 
pus is present a blood film stained with iodine 
shows brown granular degeneration in the 
polymorphonuclears. 

The serum reaction is useful in the diagnosis 
of dysentery, in that clumping occurs for the 
Bacillus Dysenteriae with the serum of persons 
suffering from bacillary dysentery, and will not 
occur with the serum of those suffering from 
the amoebic form. This reaction occasionally, 
however, occurs in alcoholism, tuberculosis, 
and enteric fever. To be reliable the dilution 
should be i in 20 and the time limit two hours. 

Malta fever often presents very considerable 
difficulty in diagnosis, but if a careful search 
through blood films fails to reveal the presence 
of malaria parasites we should at all events 
avoid the diagnosis of malaria. The serum of 
a Malta fever patient should clump Bruce's 
micrococcus, the dilution being i in 50 and the 
time limit thirty minutes. This will eliminate 



14 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

typhoid, which closely simulates it, as well as 
malaria. Basset Smith states that if the clump- 
ing power is low and the symptoms are severe 
the prognosis is bad, whilst if high and sus- 
tained it is good. It is only right to mention 
that although probably diagnostic in the hands 
of Wright and certain others, yet, in the hands 
of many, this serum reaction has proved unsatis- 
factory, probably through faulty technique. At 
the London School of Tropical Medicine it has 
proved of value in settling the diagnosis in 
some obscure cases. In Malta fever also there 
is no leucocytosis, but a relative lymphocytosis. 

Cerebro - spinal meningitis may simulate 
malaria, but here there is usually a marked 
leucocytosis. In tuberculosis the lymphocytes 
show a relative increase. 

Kala-azar has more often than not been 
diagnosed as malaria or malarial cachexia ; it 
has also been labelled as a leuchaemia or splenic 
anaemia. By blood examination we find no 
malaria parasites or pigment, unless there be a 
concurrent attack, and there is no leucocytosis 
but usually a marked leucopenia 3700 and 
1900 being the counts in two cases at the 
London Tropical School. There is a lympho- 
cytosis with relative increase of the large mono- 
nuclears. Very rarely indeed have Leishman- 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 15 

Donovan bodies been found in the peripheral 
blood, and this only when the temperature was 
high, but they are to be seen sometimes in 
countless numbers in the juice obtained by 
hepatic or splenic puncture. Before puncture 
exclude a leuchaemia with its vast leucocytosis, 
otherwise a fatal haemorrhage may occur. 

Blackwater fever, whether due to malaria (or 
to a piroplasma ?) almost always shows parasites 
in the red corpuscles at the outset, and has no 
leucocytosis ; a pocket spectroscope is of use 
in recognising the haemoglobin, and very often 
methaemoglobin bands in the urine, for some- 
times a dark urine is said to contain blood 
or haemoglobin when such is not the case. 
Yellow fever resembles it in some cases, but 
has a leucocytosis and no parasites in the blood. 

Plague may begin with a rigor in exactly the 
same way as malaria, but it has a leucocytosis 
greater than in any condition ordinarily met 
with, ranging from 20,000 to 100,000. The 
Bacillus pestis can be cultured from the blood 
in about a third of the cases as found by the 
German Plague Commission. No practical 
value attaches to serum diagnosis in this dis- 
ease. 

Cholera also shows a 'high leucocytosis, 
varying between 14,000 and 600,000. Rodgers 



l6 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

believes from his cases that the higher the 
leucocytosis the worse the prognosis, and 
states that the large mononuclears show an 
absolute increase in the worst cases. In no 
other disease has the blood been found to give 
an acid reaction, and this only occurs towards 
the fatal termination of a case. 

In relapsing fever a leucocytosis also occurs 
during the febrile periods, and at the same 
time the spirilla are to be found in the blood 
plasma, thus at once excluding typhus. To 
differentiate from malaria during an afebrile 
period, apart from the finding of malaria para- 
sites, Lowenthal found that the serum of a 
suspected case, if relapsing fever, would kill the 
live spirilla from another patient on a slide. 

Nothing has yet been found distinctive in 
the blood of patients suffering from sprue or 
beri beri. 

Leprosy, commoner in the Tropics than else- 
where, shows no leucocytosis, but a slight 
relative increase of lymphocytes. Brown has 
succeeded in demonstrating the bacillus from 
the blood in half his cases. 

Speaking generally, skin diseases and nearly 
all the worms produce an eosinophilia which 
may be persistent, but in many cases is only 
temporary. 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 17 

An eosinophilia may be most useful as a 
guide, but it occurs in some patients without 
any explainable cause. It also occurs with 
bronchitis or asthma. 

In patients suffering from ankylostomum 
duodenale, Boycott and Haldane found the 
average eosinophil count to be 23 per cent, in 
1 6 cases. In another series of 46 cases the 
eosinophils were only under 7 per cent, in 4 
cases and over 20 per cent, in 19 cases. Ash- 
ford, from 77 cases in Porto Rico, says that the 
highest eosinophil count occurs in recent cases. 
He also says that a rise of eosinophils in 
chronic cases after treatment favours the prog- 
nosis, but that a fall without improvement in 
the other clinical symptoms may even be sug- 
gestive of death. In every case of anaemia 
with eosinophilia the ova of ankylostomum 
duodenale should be searched for. Sandwith 
says that out of 200 cases of this disease in 
Egypt 78 per cent, had a red blood corpuscle 
count of under 3,000,000, whilst 28 per cent, of 
these were under 2,000,000, and so the severity 
of the anaemia in persons who for the most part 
work out of doors is very suggestive. The 
whites usually varied between io,oooand 1 3,000. 

In filariasis we find a maximal normal, or 
increased eosinophil count. The average 



l8 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

eosinophil count in bilharzia haematobia in- 
fection from all sources is 18.5 per cent. 

Eosinophils seem to be very scanty in the 
blood of those infected with bothriocephalus 
latus ; the colour index is usually over unity, 
and the disease, in so far as the blood is con- 
cerned, is practically indistinguishable from 
idiopathic pernicious anaemia, both conditions 
showing nucleated red corpuscles. 

Probably the average eosinophilia in trichi- 
niasis is higher than in any other affection, it 
being 34.4 per cent, for 19 cases taken from 
all sources. 

Blood counts have recently been made by 
Welsh, Professor of Pathology at the University 
of Sydney, in 20 cases of hydatid disease pre- 
vious to operation. He found a marked eosino- 
philia i.e. over 500 per c. mm. in 10 cases; a 
slight eosinophilia or high normal i.e. 200 to 
500 per c. mm. in 5 cases, whilst the remaining 
5 cases showed no eosinophilia at all. He only 
found a leucocytosis up to 10,000 in 2 of the 20 
cases. 

Da Costa says that " leucocytosis and eosino- 
philia is the important blood picture," but this 
apparently is not always the case, as in chronic 
cases the eosinophils and a leucocytosis may 
certainly disappear. 




VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 

We now propose to close this paper by 
quoting a number of cases, for the most part 
admitted to the Seamen's Hospital, London 
Tropical School of Medicine, by which we 
hope more fully to emphasise the real import- 
ance of blood examination in Tropical Disease ; 
and we would take this opportunity of thank- 
ing Sir Patrick Manson and Dr Daniels 
for having so kindly allowed us the use of the 
Hospital Reports and also for making men- 
tion of some private cases. 

Case i. S. S., 20, from the Punjaub. 
Admitted, 24th October 1905. History of 3 
days' illness with rigor, vomiting, headache, and 
sweats. Liver and spleen slightly enlarged. 
Temperature on admission, 100. Blood ex- 
amined and Spirochcztcz obermeieri found. 

Case 2. O., 23, from Darjeeling. Admitted, 
9th December 1903, for malaria, with history 
that quinine had proved ineffective. Spr;ei> 
three and a half inches below costal ma/gin. 
Liver just palpable. Blood examined after in- 
terval without quinine, and no malaria parasites 
found. Temperature remittent or intermittent 
quotidian. Hepatic puncture showed Leish- 
man- Donovan bodies. Arsenic treatment at 






V 






2O BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

once adopted and patient went out on 4th 
April, feeling, as he said, "a new man," temp- 
erature having been just sub-normal for 14 
days. 

Case 3. A. A. M., from Calcutta. Admitted, 
loth December 1904. In June 1904 quite 
well after a visit to England, then, one week 
after return to India, taken ill, with repeated 
fevers. Lost weight. On admission spleen en- 
larged one handsbreadth below costal margin ; 
liver one inch below costal margin in nipple 
line. White corpuscles, 1900. Polymorpho- 
nuclears, 45.5 per cent. Large mononuclears, 1 1 
per cent. Lymphocytes, 39 per cent. Eosino- 
phils, i per cent. Transitional, 3.5 per cent. 
No parasites found in blood. Hepatic punc- 
ture revealed Leishman-Donovan bodies. 

Case 4. C. A., a lascar sailor from Bombay. 
\Admitted, 27th March 1906, with phthisis of 
x *ieh lung. Irregular quotidian, temperature up 
to 104. Sweats at night. Spleen slightly 
enlarged. Blood examination revealed sub- 
tertian crescents and rings. Quinine was 
administered and patient discharged much im- 
proved with no parasites to be found in his 
blood. (Had no blood examination been made 



\v 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 21 

the treatment of his phthisis would probably 
have been most unsatisfactory with active 
malaria parasites present in the blood.) 

Case 5. F. K., 39, from Trinidad. Admitted, 
1 7th September 1906. After leaving Trinidad 
on the tenth day at 10 A.M. he was suddenly 
taken ill on deck with severe pain in the head 
and dropped down unconscious. Regained 
consciousness at 7 P.M. and had a rigor. 
Temperature rose to 106, and until admission 
had been quotidian remittent. Liver and 
spleen only just palpable. No history of 
previous malaria. Blood examined and benign 
tertian parasites found. Complete cure. 

Case 6. H. B., 26, from Alabama. Admitted, 
5th December 1896, for the passage of blood 
by the rectum and mouth, and a nightly rigor. 
Had an attack of malaria some few months 
before but was quite cured from that. Liver 
and spleen just palpable. Blood showed pig- 
mented malaria parasites, and condition was 
completely cured by the use of quinine. 

Case 7. J. F., 36, from west coast of Africa. 
Admitted, i2th April 1897.* At work in the 
stokehole, and had sudden onset of pain in 



22 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

the head and legs, and fell down unconscious. 
On regaining consciousness became very fever- 
ish, but never had a rigor. Had continued 
fever for 21 days, temperature being inter- 
mittent, rising to 106. Then he began to have 
rigors. On admission liver not enlarged and 
spleen just palpable. Blood showed double 
benign tertian infection rosettes and small 
forms. Completely cured. 

Case 8. H. H., 22, from Port Said and 
Malta. Admitted, i6th June 1898, with history 
of fever for an indefinite time, and severe pain 
in the shoulder and arm for last three days. 
No history of a rigor or sweating, very anaemic- 
looking. Temperature, quotidian intermittent, 
between 104.6 and 97. Blood showed benign 
tertian rosettes and rings. Completely cured. 

Case 9. J. T., 38, from south U. S. A. 
Admitted, i7th September 1898. History of 
diarrhoea and passage of blood. No rigors 
but daily fever. General feeling of weakness. 
Had been taking quinine. Temperature ir- 
regular. Blood showed crescents. Completely 
cured with maximal doses of quinine. 

Case 10. S. P., 24, from South America. 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 23 

Admitted, i;th May 1899. On 2nd May, 
after visiting the refrigerating-room on board, 
was taken ill with slight shivering fits, pain 
in the back and severe cramps in the legs, 
so severe that he was unable to stay in bed. 
This more or less continued until admission. 
On day of admission he vomited three times. 
Spleen not enlarged. Temperature for 8 days 
in hospital, quotidian intermittent, between 
103 and 98. Blood then examined and 
crescents found. Quinine at once given and 
uninterrupted recovery. 

Case ii. G. R., 30. Admitted, 5th October 
1899, with the diagnosis of pneumonia and 
possibly typhoid. Spleen enlarged. In due 
course rash developed, and a Widal proved 
positive on 29th October. Blood showed no 
parasites, and leucocytes numbered 4800 per 
c. mm. During the course of the disease a 
sudden rise of temperature suggested a com- 
plication of the typhoid. Blood examined and 
malaria parasites were found. 

Case 12. C. L., 60, from Dalsar. Arrived 
in Hull on 8th November, and joined his wife 
in London on 9th November, in a drowsy 
condition, and soon became unconscious, and 



24 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

remained so. On i2th November treated 
with quinine by a doctor called in to see him. 
Became semi-conscious again. No vomiting. 
Delirious at night. Chest normal. Admitted, 
1 5th November. Semi-comatose all day. Wife 
said he had never been ill. Liver and spleen 
enlarged. Urine passed in bed. Skin yellow 
and slightly cyanosed. Pupils contracted. 
Blood examined and showed enormous numbers 
of sub-tertian parasites in all stages of growth ; 
as many as four present in some corpuscles, 
and in very many two. Quinine given hypo- 
dermically and per rectum. Condition, how- 
ever, became worse, and patient died at 12.30 
A.M. on 1 7th. (Here was a man, without an 
obtainable history, showing no evident signs 
of malaria and undiagnosable without blood 
examination. Had a blood examination been 
made by the doctor who saw him on the 1 2th, 
and maximal doses of quinine been forthwith 
given, he might possibly have recovered.) 

Case 13. W. L., 49, from Tampico, Gulf 
of Mexico. On voyage home became feverish ; 
this lasted four days, then he completely went 
off his head, and only came round on arrival 
in dock on I4th October 1901, when he was 
admitted. Liver enlarged. Splenic area ten- 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 25 

der but not enlarged. Blood showed crescents. 
Recovery. 

Case 14. P. E. S., 23, from Port Said in a 
P. and O. vessel. On 27th July felt seedy, 
with epigastric pain and tenderness. Went 
to bed at ship surgeon's orders. Profuse 
haemorrhages then commenced from the bowel 
and stomach. Arrived in dock 3Oth July 1901, 
and was at once (2 P.M.) admitted, sent in as 
acute dysentery. On admission, temperature 
102.8. Pulse 140. Urine 1020. No alb. 
Liver normal, spleen enlarged. No tympan- 
ites. No tenderness anywhere in abdomen. 
5 P.M. vomited reddish-brown fluid with small 
clots, and passed two stools of the same 
material, but not at all faecal. 10 P.M. tem- 
perature 97.4. 3 ist, 8 A.M., temperature 97.6. 
Still no abdominal tenderness on palpation. 
1.30 P.M. vomited sx of fluid as at 5 P.M. on 
3Oth, and passed four stools of same material. 
Much pain then came on in the abdomen. He 
lost consciousness and died at 2.15 A.M. The 
partial P.M. allowed revealed no excess of 
peritoneal fluid and no haemorrhage into the 
cavity of the peritoneum, but there was a 
blood-stained effusion unde,r the peritoneum 
around the pancreas. The whole extent of 



26 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

the stomach, small and large intestines, was 
of a dusky red, and on opening them blood- 
stained fluid gushed out. The pancreas was 
of an intense red. The liver was much en- 
larged, and weighed 5 Ibs. The spleen weighed 
5xv. Microscope sections showed sub-tertian 
rosettes and very black pigment in the pancreas 
and intestines, the capillaries being completely 
blocked. The superficial layers of the mucosa 
were necrotic. A few parasites also were found 
in the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lymphatic 
glands, but in no part an accumulation corre- 
sponding to that in the pancreas and intestines. 
No evidence of any but quite recent malaria 
was present. The blood of this patient was 
not examined during life, as nothing had pointed 
to malaria. 

Case 15. H. M., 20. Admitted, 2ist July 
1 903, for painful micturition, distended abdomen, 
oedema about the ankles. Heart and urine 
normal. This case seemed quite obscure. 
Temperature on admission 101.2. On 24th 
July temperature rose to 106.2. Blood ex- 
amined, and quartan parasites in very great 
numbers in all stages were found. Patient 
put on quinine, and straight ahead recovery 
ensued. 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 27 

Case 1 6. G. S., 30. Admitted, 29th July 

1904. History of feeling generally unfit and 
of palpitation on walking quickly. On admis- 
sion temperature 99.4 ; it gradually rose as a 
remittent about i a day until 105.4 on sixth 
day. Blood was then examined, and sub-tertian 
rings and crescents were found. Quinine at 
once given, and temperature fell to sub-normal 
and remained there until discharge. (This 
temperature chart in no way whatever sug- 
gested malaria.) 

Case 17. H. B., 25. Admitted, 2nd November 

1905, with haematuria, diarrhoea, and vomiting. 
Had a rigor at outset of these symptoms. 
Temperature 102, quotidian remittent. Spleen 
not enlarged. Blood showed crescents. 
Quinine intramuscularly cured all symptoms. 

Case 1 8. B., 29. Admitted, 2ist November 
1905, from Sierra Leone. Had attack of fever 
in Sierra Leone, and has taken quinine, grs. v. 
to grs. xxx., daily since, but in spite of the 
quinine malaria has never departed. Tem- 
perature quotidian remittent 103 to 99. Blood 
showed sub-tertian crescents and rings. Quinine 
intramuscularly completed cure. (This is an 
instance of the value of diagnosing the type 



28 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

of infection, and, finding it to be sub-tertian, 
treating intramuscularly.) 

Case 19. A. W. Admitted, 27th July 1896, 
complaining of great pain in the popliteal spaces 
and knee joints, with swelling of the thigh, also 
swelling in both groins. Blood showed presence 
of filaria. 

Case 20. T. A., 23. Nine years' history of 
small lump in each groin gradually increasing. 
Five years ago patient consulted a doctor and 
was told he was suffering from a rupture. 
Later the same doctor diagnosed filariasis by 
blood examination. 

Case 21. A private patient of Sir Patrick 
Manson's. The history was that of suddenly 
going out of his mind in India, whereupon he 
was sent to an asylum, but later brought to 
England. Patient's mother persisted that he 
should be seen by a specialist in Tropical 
Disease. Sir Patrick accordingly saw him, 
examined his blood, and found numbers of 
crescents. Quinine was at once administered, 
and slow improvement occurred until all but 
complete recovery. (The use of the micro- 
scope here would have saved a long illness, 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 2Q 

dismissal to the asylum, and injury to the 
brain.) 

Case 22. M. N., 24, from Philadelphia. 
Admitted, 24th February 1898. History of 
rigor and sweating. No headache, no spots. 
Temperature between normal and 103.8 daily. 
Spleen not palpable. Benign tertian parasites 
found. Quinine given, but temperature did 
not react. Widal tried with positive result, and 
typhoid diagnosed. 

Case 23. A. M., 23, from Calcutta. Ad- 
mitted, 7th April 1902. History of repeated 
malaria ; quinine proved unavailing. On 
admission temperature 103. Pulse 100. 
Respiration 30. Diarrhoea. Active delirium 
on 1 2th April. No reaction to Widal for 
typhoid, but Malta fever reaction obtained. 
Temperature varied daily between 102.8 and 
about 1 00. Recovery. 

Case 24. W. G. Z., 33, from Uganda. 
Admitted, 4th July 1905. In April of 1905 
present illness began, with rheumaticlike pains 
in the left knee. Went to hospital at Entebbe. 
Daily rise of temperature, enlargement of 
spleen ; enlarged glands subsequently noticed. 



3O BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

Trypanosomes found in the blood. Tempera- 
ture did not appear to react much to treatment, 
and then benign tertian parasites were also 
found in the blood. The patient was then 
treated with quinine as well as arsenic. (With- 
out a careful blood examination this case could 
not have been treated satisfactorily.) [On 
25th November no trypanosomes had been 
found in the blood for a month.] 

Case 25. R., from the Congo. Admitted, 
loth October 1905. On I5th June 1905 had 
an attack of severe abdominal pain and diar- 
rhoea, and on i9th June irregular fever occurred, 
and vomiting. On 2Oth June urine contained 
blood which continued for five days and then 
cleared up. On i3th September trypanosomes 
found in the blood and glandular enlargement 
occurred. On admission patient was in a state 
of great weakness and emaciation. Tempera- 
ture daily rise to 103, sometimes intermittent, 
sometimes remittent. Placed on atoxyl treat- 
ment, and after steady improvement discharged. 
Returned, after having continued treatment at 
intervals, on I9th November 1906, to have 
blood examined. No trypanosomes then found. 
A monkey was inoculated with patient's blood 
and up to date (2 1 days after) no trypanosomes 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 31 

have been found in its blood. (This patient 
previous to blood examination had been treated 
for malaria and the value of the examination 
is apparent.) 

Case 26. C., 30. Admitted, 1 2th September 
1905. Seven weeks' history of quotidian fever 
up to 103, no chills nor sweats. Treated on 
board for malaria. On admission blood showed 
no parasites. Widal was negative. No T. B. 
in sputum. Leucocyte count 15,000. Liver 
explored after discovery of leucocytosis and 
pus found. 

Case 27. S. G., 35. Admitted, 3rd May 
1905, sent up by P and O. surgeon with diagno- 
sis of malaria in a state of collapse. No history 
obtainable. Blood showed no malaria parasites 
but 10,000 leucocytes. Within 24 hours of 
admission four very liquid stools passed and 
dysentery was diagnosed. Conditions dragged 
on until 24th May, when a blood count showed 
24,000 leucocytes per c. mm., and a liver abs- 
cess was suspected, explored for, and found. 

Case 28. A. P. B., 37, from West Africa. 
History was that patient went to Likondi, 1906, 
and whilst there was seized at night with 



32 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS 

severe and sudden cramps in the legs and 
arms, any alteration of position bringing on 
the pains. After 10 days' cramps he lost the 
use of his legs, went into hospital, and was 
invalided home. On arrival in England the 
condition remained stationary. He had taken 
quinine, grs. v., twice weekly until arrival in 
hospital at Tropical School. On admission, 
9th October 1906, temperature 99.6. Spleen 
and liver just palpable. Patient unable to walk 
on account of peripheral neuritis. Pain on 
pressure over nerves of lower extremities, 
especially posterior tibials. Knee jerks lost. 
No loss of tactile sensation, but great feeling 
of numbness. Pupils reacted to light and 
accommodation. On i4th October tempera- 
ture rose to 103. Pulse no, and a quotidian 
intermittent temperature set in, varying be- 
tween 104 and 97. Blood examined and 
showed crescents. Quinine, grs. ix., intra- 
muscularly administered three days running 
and temperature became sub- normal and the 
peripheral neuritis rapidly began to clear up, 
so that patient was able to step on to a chair 
and step down backwards. No oedema present 
at any time nor affection of the heart suggest- 
ing beri beri ; patient had been a total ab- 
stainer since March 1906 and moderate before ; 



VALUE IN TROPICAL DISEASE 33 

he had not taken arsenic ; and as the affection 
responded to quinine so readily it was diag- 
nosed by Sir Patrick Manson, and also Dr 
Buzzard, who saw the case, as peripheral 
neuritis, directly due to sub-tertian malaria. 
(Only a blood examination could have put one 
on the right track here.) 

Case 29. J. H.. 44, from the Gold Coast. 
Admitted with an unhealthy granulating wound 
on the head and a sinus leading to bone on the 
right temporal, received at the hands of some 
natives on the Gold Coast. Temperature rose 
to 102.4 on admission, with a rigor, and the 
onset of septicaemia was suspected. Blood 
was examined and benign tertian parasites 
were found. Quinine was consequently in- 
jected and a straightforward recovery ensued, 
the wound healing up rapidly. 

Case 30. J. W. C., 44, from Calcutta. 
Admitted, ist November 1906. In March 
1906 was taken ill with what was supposed at 
first to be enteric. Had sweats at intervals 
and then irregular fevers set in and malaria 
was diagnosed. Spleen became enlarged. 
He took quinine, grs. x,x. to grs. xxx., daily, 
with little effect, and continued this until 



34 BLOOD EXAMINATION AND ITS VALUE 

admission. On admission spleen and liver 
very much enlarged. Temperature varied 
between 100 and 102 daily. Very much 
wasted, and of sallow appearance. Blood 
showed no malaria parasites. Differential 
count was : large mononuclears, 23 per cent. ; 
polymorphonuclears, 49 per cent., and lympho- 
cytes, 28 per cent. The whites were 3700 per 
c. mm. A liver puncture showed Leishman- 
Donovan bodies. 

In conclusion, we trust that the above cases 
have abundantly illustrated the importance of 
blood examination in diseases occurring in the 
Tropics, and that in the near future far greater 
importance will be attached to this method of 
investigation ; also that new and improved 
ways of examining blood may be discovered. 



HENRY KIMPTON, 13 FURNIVAL STREET, LONDON, E.G. 




INSTRUMENTS FOR 

& General 






Centrifuges 
Clinical Thermome- 
ters 
Haemocytometers 

Htemoglobinometers 
Microscopes 

(by Standard Makers) 



Phonendoscopes 
Sphygmomanome- 

ters 

Sphygmographs 
Stethoscopes 

etc., etc., etc. 



See DOWN BROS.' COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE 
(Standard Edition), about 10,000 Illustrations, issued 
post-free to Members of the Medical Profession on 
application 



Awarded 

the 
Grand Prix 




Paris 

Exhibition 

1900 



DOWN BROTHERS LTD 

Surgical Instrument Manufacturers 
21 ST THOMAS'S STREET, LONDON, S.E. 

(Opposite Guy's Hospital) 



Telegraphic Address- 
Registered throughout the World 
"DOWN-LONDON" 



Telephones 

8339 Central 
965 Hop 



Important Medical Works 

THE MEDICAL DISEASES OF EGYPT. By F. M. SANDWITH, 
M.D., F.R.C.P., Consulting Physician to H.M. the Khedive and 
to Kasr-el-Ainy Hospital, Cairo ; Lecturer at the London School 
of Tropical Medicine ; formerly Vice- Director of the Sanitary 
Department of Egypt and Professor of Medicine and Examiner 
to the Egyptian Government School of Medicine. Part I. In 
one handsome demy octavo volume of 328 pages, Illustrated. 
Cloth. Price Js. 6d. net. 

" In concluding this notice of Dr Sandwith's excellent work we can only express 
the great pleasure we have had in perusing it, and we look forward with much 
interest to the completion of a treatise which should find a place in the library of 
every student of tropical medicine. Part I. contains three beautifully executed 
plates of the ankylostomum of the pellagrous skin affection, and of the pellagrous 
spinal cord." Lancet. 

A MANUAL OF CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS BY MICROSCOPICAL 
AND CHEMICAL METHODS. For Students, Hospital 
Physicians, and Practitioners. By CHARLES E. SIMON, M.D., 
late Assistant Resident Physician, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Balti- 
more. New (Fifth) and Revised Edition. In one very hand- 
some royal octavo volume of 703 pages, with 150 Engravings 
and 22 full-page Coloured Plates. Cloth. Price 2is net. 

"... Covering practically the same ground as the well-known work of Pro- 
fessor von Jaksch, the book contains in some sections even more information 
than does that volume. We have, after a careful review of the contents of the 
book, noj hesitation in commending it as one of the best and most compendious 
manuals for the clinical laboratory that has appeared." Lancet. 

"The volume is most appropriately illustrated both by coloured plates and by 
woodcuts in the text. We heartily welcome the appearance of the work, which we 
feel sure will find a permanent place in the working literature of the profession, 
and will adequately supply a well-recognised deficiency." British Medical 
Journal. 

CLINICAL PATHOLOGY OF THE BLOOD: A Treatise on the 
General Principles and Special Applications of Hsematology. 
By JAMES EWING, A.M., M.D., Professor of Pathology in 
Cornell University Medical College, New York City. Second 
Edition, Revised and Enlarged. In one very handsome royal 
octavo volume of 496 pages, Illustrated with 43 Engravings and 
18 Coloured Plates drawn by the Author. Cloth. Price 2is net. 

" To anyone engaging in such researches (and every practitioner must engage 
in them more or less) the work of Dr Ewing will be found invaluable. The book 
will be found a mine of information, and, indeed, will prove indispensable to any- 
one investigating blood changes in disease." Dublin Journal of Medical Science. 

" As a thoroughly sound and philosophical treatise on haematology, free from 
prejudice and exaggeration, the book may be strongly recommended alike to the 
beginner and the advanced student." Practitioner. 

" Of the sterling merits of the book we have already spoken, and its perusal may 
be most heartily commended." British Medical Journal. 



London: HENRY KIMPTON, 13 Furnival Street, Holborn, E.G. 



IMPORTANT MEDICAL WORKS continued 



INFECTIOUS DISEASES: Their Etiology, Diagnosis, and 
Treatment^ By G. H. ROGER, Professor Extraordinary in the 
Faculty of Medicine of Paris, Member of the Biological Society, 
Physician to the Hospital of Porte d'Aubervilliers. Translated by 
M. S. GABRIEL, M.D. In one very handsome royal octavo 
volume of 874 pages, Illustrated with 43 Engravings. Cloth. 
Price 305. net. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. For 

Students and Practitioners. By HOBART AMORY HARE, 
M.D., B.Sc., Professor of Therapeutics in the Jefferson Medical 
College of Philadelphia ; Laureate of the Royal Academy of 
Medicine in Belgium ; of the Medical Society of London, etc., 
etc. New (Second) Edition, Revised and Enlarged. In one very 
handsome royal octavo volume of 1132 pages, Illustrated with 131 
Engravings and n Plates in colours and monochrome. Cloth. 
Price 2 is. net. 

" We can recommend it as one containing a vast amount of information useful to 
students and practitioners. The sections on tropical diseases may be especially 
mentioned, and the text-book will be useful to medical men practising in countries 
in which such diseases are likely to be met with." Lancet. 

"A valuable feature of the work is the great attention given to the important 
subject of the specific infective diseases. There can be no hesitation in recommend- 
ing Dr Hare's work, now in its second edition, as an excellent text-book." British 
Medical Journal. 

PATHOGENIC MICRO-ORGANISMS. Including Bacteria 
and Protozoa. A Manual for Practitioners, Health Officers, 
and Students. By WILLIAM H. PARK, M.D., Professor of 
Bacteriology and Hygiene in the University and Bellevue Hospital 
Medical College. Second Edition, revised and Enlarged. In 
one royal octavo volume of 556 pages, with 156 Engravings and 4 
coloured Plates. Cloth. Price i8s. net. 

"The work, which is well up to date throughout, and remarkably free from 
printers' errors, is one of the best treatises on its subject; and though it has been 
specially written for students and practitioners, we feel sure that it will be of equal, 
if not greater, value and assistance to the laboratory worker." Edinburgh Medical 
Journal. 

"This work possesses a distinct character and individuality which makes the 
appearance of a second edition very welcome. Dr Park's book, since it does not 
simply add to the stock of text-books but contains much special information, may be 
strongly recommended to the serious student of bacteriology and public health." 
Lancet. 



London: HENRY KIMPTON, 13 Furnival Street, Holborn, E.G. 



IMPORTANT MEDICAL WORKS continued 



A TEXT-BOOK OF PRACTICAL THERAPEUTICS: With 
Especial Reference to the Application of Remedial Measures to 
Disease and their Employment upon a Rational Basis. By 
HOBART AMORY HARE, M.D., Professor of Therapeutics and 
Materia Medica in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. 
With special chapters by Drs G. E. DE SCHWEINITZ, EDWARD 
MARTIN, and BARTON C. HIRST. New (Twelfth) Edition, 
thoroughly Revised and greatly Rewritten. In one royal octavo 
volume of 939 pages, with 114 Engravings and 4 Coloured Plates. 
Cloth. Price 2 is net. 

Reviews of former editions : 

1 We can thoroughly recommend this book to practitioners and students." 
Lancet. 

"We strongly recommend the book as a useful aid to the practical work of the 
profession." Scottish Medical and Surgical Journal. 

"The work can be strongly recommended to English practitioners, to whom, 
perhaps, it is not so well known as it undoubtedly deserves to be." Quarterly 
Medical Journal. 

A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL HYGIENE. For Students, Physicians, 
and Medical Officers. By CHARLES HARRINGTON, M.D., 
Assistant Professor of Hygiene in the Medical School of Harvard 
University. New (Third) Edition, Revised and Enlarged. In 
one very handsome royal octavo volume of 793 pages. Illustrated 
with 118 Engravings and 12 Plates in colours and monochrome. 
Cloth. Price 2is. net. 

" The author conveys his meaning very clearly, and the work bears evidence of 
thorough handling of the subject and of his determination to bring his facts into 
line with modern developments. It is a pleasure to find a manual so comprehen- 
sively and lucidly written and up-to-date." Lancet. 

"... This work is one of the best of its kind ever published." Dublin Journal 
of Medical Science. 

"... We may say that the book is very agreeable reading, and that the execu- 
tion of the illustrations is, as a whole, excellent." Practitioner. 

"... The chapters on foods . . . are well done. . . . The book is nicely printed 
and got up." Sanitary Record and Journal. 



London: HENRY KIMPTON, 13 Furnival Street, Holborn, E.G. 



IMPORTANT MEDICAL WORKS continued 



THE SCIENCE AND ART OF PRESCRIBING. By E. H. 

COLBECK, B.A., M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P. (Lond.), D.P.H. 
(Cantab.), Physician to Out -Patients at the City of London 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, Victoria Park, E ; Physician 
to the Metropolitan Dispensary, etc. etc. ; and ARNOLD CHAPLIN, 
B.A., M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P. (Lond.), Physician to Out- 
Patients at the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the 
Chest, Victoria Park, E j Physician to the Metropolitan Dis- 
pensary, etc. etc. In one foolscap octavo volume of 210 pages. 
Cloth. Price 35 6d net. Handsomely bound in full leather, 
gilt edges. Price 53. net. 

" Can be thoroughly recommended." Medical Review. 

" This little volume should prove invaluable." London Hospital Gazette. 

'Will be cordially welcomed both by students and practitioners." British 
Medical Journal. 

1 The book is full of useful information and excellent formulae ... is sure to be 
perused by many." Canada Lancet. 

" Is a very good little book." Lancet. 

DISEASES OF THE HEART. A Clinical Text-Book for the use of 

Students and Practitioners of Medicine. By EDMUND HENRY 
COLBECK, B.A., M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P. (London), D.P.H. 
(Cantab.), Physician to Out-Patients at the City of London 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, Victoria Park, E., late House 
Physician at St Mary's Hospital, etc. etc. New Second Revised 
and Enlarged Edition. In one demy octavo volume of 366 pages, 
with Frontispiece and 43 Engravings. Cloth. Price 7s 6d net. 

". . . Particularly useful to the busy practitioner of medicine. . . . We consider 
that Dr Colbeck has produced a work of more intrinsic value than some more pre- 
tentious volumes." Lancet. 

"... A work which we can cordially commend as a well-arranged, well-written, 
and trustworthy text-book, suitable alike as a work of reference to the busy practi- 
tioner and to the advanced student." British Medical Journal. 

"Written by one who is evidently a master of his subject, this work will be in- 
valuable both to the student . . . and also to the medical man desirous of refreshing 
his knowledge. ... It is lucid, well illustrated, and carefully explained. . . . We 
congratulate the author of having compiled such a reliable and worthy manual, 
which we cannot praise too highly." Quarterly Medical Journal. 



London: HENRY KIMPTON, 13 Furnival Street, Holborn, E.G. 



IMPORTANT MEDICAL WORKS continued 



A TEXT-BOOK OF PATHOLOGY AND PATHOLOGICAL 
ANATOMY. By Dr HANS SCHMAUS, Extraordinary Professor 
and First Assistant in the Pathological Institute, Munich. Trans- 
lated from the Sixth German Edition by A. E. THAYER, M.D., 
Instructor in Pathology in the Cornell University Medical College, 
New York. Edited, with Additions, by JAMES EWING, M.D., 
Professor of Pathology in the Cornell University Medical College, 
New York. In one very handsome royal octavo volume of 602 
pages, illustrated with 351 Engravings, including 35 coloured 
inset Plates. Cloth. Price 2 is net. 

". . . Supplies a much-felt want." British Medical Journal. 

" Can be confidently recommended." Practitioner. 

THE TREATMENT OF NEURASTHENIA. By A. PROUST, Pro 
fessor a la Faculte de Medicine de Paris, etc., and GILBERT 
BALLET, Professor agrege a la Faculte de Medicine de Paris, etc. 
Authorised Translation from the French. By PETER CAMPBELL 
SMITH, L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S. (Glas.). In one 
very handsome pott octavo volume of 227 pages. Cloth. Price 
55 net. 

"... This little book is a really excellent translation of a work by Prpi. A. 
Proust and Prof. Gilbert Ballet. . . . The treatment which is recommended in the 
pages of this little book is essentially common-sense in character, and may be 
summed up in the following words : Good Moral and Physical Hygiene, a well- 
considered dietary and encouragement by suggestion." Lancet. 

"... The work may be commended to the notice of practitioners desirous ot 
guidance in the recognition and treatment of a very difficult class of cases. The 
subject is admirably treated, and the advice given is sound. We may add that the 
work is clearly printed, and attractively turned out." Medical Press. 

"... It is an eminently practical little work." Medical News. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ACUTE CONTAGIOUS 
DISEASES. By WILLIAM M. WELCH, M.D., Diagnostician 
to the Bureau of Health, and Consulting Physician to the Muni- 
cipal Hospital for Contagious and Infectious Diseases, Phila- 
delphia ; and JAY F. SCHAMBERG, A.B., M.D., Assistant 
Diagnostician to the Bureau of Health, and Consulting Physician 
to the Municipal Hospital for Contagious and Infectious Dis- 
eases, Philadelphia. In one handsome royal octavo volume of 
781 pages, illustrated with 109 Engravings and 61 Full-page Plates 
in colours and monochrome. Cloth. Price 255 net. 



London: HENRY KIMPTON, 13 Furnival Street, Holborn, E.G. 







University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NQT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Porlcet 
Under Pt "Ref . ladtx File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



