
Class ini^^LSL 

Copyright N° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSfK 



/ ^-^ 



Practical and Dainty Recipes 



Lunclieons 



.fHAm.*,^ 



and 

Dinner Giving 

in 
Woodward, Oklahoiifia. 



A Useful and Valuable Book of liecipes, 

all of which are tested and tried; 

and many of them are the 

contributor's ori§i= 

naS recipes. 



Edited by 
Mrs. Edgar N. Blake, 
Woodward, Okla. 



1^ 



sp-- 



LIBRARY of CONoriESS 
Two Copies Kecdivea 

DEC 21 .907 

CoiiynfBi tiury 

6lass/4 xxc. «<;. 

COPY B. 

'■ ■■' XM I'll 1. > ll W I H - H | - l > l« 



Entered according to the act of Congress, 
in the year 1907, 
by MRS. EDGAR N. BLAKE 
Woodward, Oklahoma, 
in the office of the Librarian of Con- 
gress, at Washington. 



Press of the 

Wm. a. Pyne Printing Co., 

Woodward. 



To Our Friends. 

We are very greatful indeed to those who have 
advertised in this edition of this Cook Book, and we 
would kindly ask that they be patronized by you. They 
have assisted us materially ^"n getting out the book, and 
upon their kindness and goodwill we place the highest 
appreciation. 

Now that the book is given to the pi.b'.ic, we solicit 
for it a kind reception and and a fair trial. 

The Ladies of the Aid Society 
of the First Presbyterian Church of Woodward 

Oklahoma, 1907. 



To the Housewives 

to whom we look in all ages 

with great appreciation 

as the dinner hour arrives and a 

bounteous dinner is spread 

and 

To the Amateur 

who is just beginning the struggle 

in the culinary department, 

this book is 

DEDICATED . 



■'We maV live wlthoul poetry, music and art, 
W« may live w'tl)out conscienc- and live without lieart. 
We mav live without fri»nds, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 



Preface. 

In publishing- this book it is hoped that a Ion.;- felt wunt will 
be met, Usually tlie recipes in a cooit book are so elaborate 
that each kitchen not only has to be supplied with a grocery 
store but a drug" store as well. The aim of this look is to meet 
the wants of all. Tliese recipes have been tested by ^<ome of the 
best, housekeepers of this and other cities, and eiich one is vouched 
for by the contributor, whose name follows the recipe. 

As far as pracLicMble, these recipes have been copied jnsi as 
they were g-iven. Where it was chou^-ht Lh.^y wu-e not suffic'.- 
eutly explicit, lil)erty has been taken in alterin ;• the phra^e<)lo<.-y. 

To the experienced housekeepers, the direc'ions may beeui 
tedionsly minute. In the maj<)rity of cook books, too much is 
taken for granted, and much of the very information that a novice 
most needs is omitted. If these recipes are correctly followeil 
both in preparing- tmd in cookimr them, your labors will be re- 
warded with success. These recipes have all been carefully cop- 
ied and the proofs corrected to insure accurcy. 

The piofits iiccruino- from this edit on will be placed in the 
treasui-y of the Ladies Aid Society of the First Presbyterian 
Churcli of this city. 

Woodward, Okiahoma, 1907. 

Editor. 



Directions and Expianaiions. 

BolIing-"EvervllnnjT- should be gently boiled, rather than 
boil fast, in order to be tender. The waier should never be al- 
lowed to stop boiling- before the article is done. Tlie kettle should 
be kept covered afler the scum has aU been removed. When 
more water is needed, always use boiling- water; all articles of 
food which should swell in tiie process of cooking, also tiiose 
from which iL is desired to extract the juices should be be;;;uu in 
cold water. All fresh vegetables should be put on to cook in boil- 
iug water. A well known authority sa3^s, that salt should be 
added to the water in which green or topground vej;eLables 
are cooked and that white or underground vegetables are best 
wheu salt is added after cooking. 

Frying. — In no branch of cooking is excellence more ap- 
preciated than in that of frying, which means cooking or immers- 
ing in hot fat. When prep-iriug- to try, put the lard in a cold pan 
and let it heat up gradtially to the proper temperature, which 
should vary accoidiug to the natxtre of the food to be fried. For 
instance, for croquets, oysster.s, fish balls, etc., the fat should be 
quite hot to almost instantly crisp the sujfaee, thus keeping the 
inside free from grease. The fat should be deep enough to cover 
the artie.es to be cooked. — To some iiousewives this might seem 
extraviigant, but if the fat is properly used and iieated to the 
proper temperature very little is absorbed by the food and the 
same fat can be used over and over again by straining it after it 
has slightly cooled through a wire strainer into a clean vessel and 
kept where it is cool. 

A good way to test the temperature i-- to throw in a small 
piece of bread; if it browns quick'y upon coming to the top, the 
fat is hot enough. 

Doughnuts, french fried potatoes, fritters, etc. require a 
sliohtly lower temperature as the food must be eookea through 
while bi-owuing. To test for doughnuts, etc., throw in a small 
piece of the dough or a piece of the potato; if it ri.ses to the top 
and browns in about three or four minutes it is hot enough. Do 
not put too much food in at one time or the fat will cool and your 
frying- will be retanied and injured in qualitj-. 

Broiling. — The gridiron should be very hot and well greased. 
Cover the gridiron with a baking pan, which will keep the heat 
iu. Birds and fowls should be turned often to be cooked evenly 
without beinir buined, . , 



If 3'ou have no gridiron an ordinary pan or larye skillet is 
good for brolllunr meats. Heat the pan very hot and rub witli 
suet just enoui'h to Iseep tlie meat from sticking-; turn uften un- 
til I he me:it is seared brown on the outside and done to the dei^^ree 
desired. Season when done and you will find a '"pan broil" very 
nice. Seive at once. Stt-ak should be turntd often to keep the 
juice in. Never put a foik iu tlie lean pari of sieak while cook- 
ing-, as it allows the juice lo escape. A sieak lor broiling' must be 
good or it is not a success. I use Porierhouse, cut thick, 

Lai*din§.— Cut firm bacon into very narrow strips with a 
sharp ktiife. Place one end in a lartling- needle, draw it. tliroug-h 
the siiin and a small bit of the meat, leavinsj- the stiip of pork in 
the meat. Ti>e two ends left exposed >.hoald be of equal leuoth. 
The larding' may be arrani^^ed in any iancifiil way to suit the 
cook. If yon have no lardin^;- needle, the strios of poi k eau be 
lied on, antl then removed before the meat is sent to the table. 

Lemon Zest. — Rub luups of ioac suirar on the yellow lind of 
lemons, whicii will ai^sorb all of the -lobules of oil; theu melt the 
sugar in the article to be flavored 

Orange zest is made in the same manner. 

Miscellaneous. 

To Baste. — To pour water or butter over meals, poulli-y, etc, 
while baking or broiling-. 

To Blanch Almonds. — Pour boiling water over them and re- 
move the skins. 

Milk. — Sweet milk. 

Dredge. — To sprinkle with flour. 

Giill.— To broil. 

Saute. — To semi-fry in a vtry little lard or butter. 

Parboil." Ti. boil unlil about half done. 

Roux. — Is a mixture of butter and flour cooked: that is, the 
butter is melted in a sauce pan, then the flour is stiri-ed in and 
the pan taken immediately irova the fire. The term is also ap- 
plied to butter rolled or worked in flour. 

Scalding miUc or cream means to bring it to the steaming 
point, preferably over hot water. Never let the milk boil. 

Editor. 



Tahie of Comparative Meai.ure!u<.iils. 

Four Cups Flour— one pound or one quart. 
Four Cups Liquid— one quart. 
Two Cup:ri Solid Butter— one pound. 
Hall'-Cup Buttei — one-fourth pound. 
Two Cups Granulated Sugar— one pound. 
Two Cups Pulverized Su.(?ar— one pound. 
Two and one-half Cups Powdered Sugar— one pound. 
Three Cups Meal— one pound. 

Four Tablespoonfuls of Liquid— one wineglass, one-half ffill or one- fourth cup 
Two Gills— one cup or one-half pint. 
Two Cups — one pint. 
One Pint of Milk or Water— one pound. 
One Pint Chopped Meat, packed solidly — one pound. 
One Round Tablespoonful of Butter— one ounce. 
Batter the Size of an Egg— two ounces or one-fourth cup. 
One Heaping Tablespoonful of Butter— two ounces or one-fourth cup. 
Nine Large Eggs or Ten Medium Eggs— one pound. 
Two Round Tablespoonfuls of Flour— one ounce. 
One Tablespoonful of Sugar (heaping)— one ounce. 
Two Round Tablespoonfuls Powdered Sugar— one ounce. 
Two Round Tablespoonfuls of Coffee— one ounce. 
One Tablespoonful of Liquid— one-half ounce. 
Four Sallspoonsful Liquid— one teaspoonful. 
Four Teaspoonsful Liquid— one tablespoonful. 
Three Teaspoonsfuls Dry Material— one tablespoonful. 
Sixteen Tablespoonfuls Liquid— one cup, or one-half pint. 
Twelve Tablespoonfuls Dry Material— one cup. 
A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. 

Unless otherwise specified, when a .spoonful is given as a measure, a level 
spoonful is intended, 

Tfme Table for Bakin^ior tJoa.stinij M«at.s and i'l^h. 

Beef ribs, well done, per pound. 12 to 15 minutes. 

Beef rolled, rib or riunp, per pound, 12 to If. minutes. 

Beef Sirloin, rare, per pound, 8 to 10 minutes. 

Beef Sirloin, well done, per pound, 12 to 15 minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound, 15 minutes. 

Mutton leg, well done, per pound, 15 minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound, 30 minutes. 

Veal, well done, per pound. 15 to 20 minuten. 

Chicken, four pounds. 1 1-2 hours. 

Turkey, eight pounds, 2 hours: ten pounds, 3 hours. 

Duck. tame, per pound, 40 to 60 minutes. 

Duck, wild, per pound, 30 to 40 minutes. 

Partridge, pe." pound, 30 to 40 minutes. 

Goose, eight pounds. 2 hours. 

Pigeons, per pound. 30 minutes. 

Small birds, per pound, 15 to 20 minutes. 

Fish, small, 20 to 30 minutes. 

Fish, thick, four to six pounds, 1 hour. 

Si-all<)ped dishes, 15 to 20 minute.s. 

Time "f"ab!*< i't>r i>i>flln^ iMcai*. 

Mutton, per pound, 15 minutes. 
Ham, per pound, 20 to 25 minutes. 
Chicken, per pound. 15 minutes. 
Turkey, i)er pound. IB minutes. 
Sweetbreads, per pound. 2o lo 30 rninules. 
Veal. 2 lo 5 hours. 



"A good besrinning is half a success." 

Soups. 

A dinner soup should be lig'iit, clear but not necessarily nu- 
tritious. When a soup must form the em ire dinner or lunch it 
must be of a nutritious charac'er. Clear soups are stimulaling- 
but not nutritious. Prom a hyg-ienic standpoint, the fashijn of a 
dinner soup is a good one, for it is wise to serve a hot liquidat llie 
begin ninsr of a h^avy meal; it draws to the stomach the gastric se- 
cretions and prepares it for the solid food that follows. 

S*ock is the foundation of all m^at. soups and is a pain table 
addition to cream soups. To make stock allow one pound of 
fresh meat and one-fourth pound of bones to three pintwof water. 
Cu'.. the meat rather fine and crack the bones in small pieces (ymir 
butcher will do this for you); place bones in bottom of I.ettie, meat 
OL top, add the cold water, brioLr slowly to the boiling- point and 
skim; put kettle on back of stove where it will simm'jr oenti v four 
houi'S. One hour before it is done, add one onion with six whole 
cloves stuck in it, one-!ialf cup chopped celery tops, one sliced car- 
I'ot, one sliced turnip, two bay le iv.»s, a teaspoonful of whole 
peppers. Wlien done strain. The boiling should reduce this to 
one quart. If the above seasoningf is not convenieni, the stock 
can be made without season, an<l atid salt, pepper, onion jnice, 
etc. to taste, when ready to use. Stock is valuable for gravies, 
sauces ahd stews. It is always best to make stock the day before 
it is used, then the fst will rise to the top and harden ;ind cati be 
eisily removed. Tocleiir stock see re„ipe for amber s >up and 
clear bouillon. Stock will keep for a week in winter but .should 
not stand in a tin or iron vessel. If you wish to mitke siock 
enoujih to last Several (lavs, add a large portion of me;it to the 
water. Set awav in a stone jar, when cold it will b^" liUe jelly. 
Jnst before dinner each day it !•, onlv neces.sary to cut off some of 
the jelly, and add boiling witer; proportion according to amount 
desired. — Mrs. E. N. Biake. 

Chicken Okra Gumbo.— Dress a chicken as for 
frying and into a soup kettle put a large kitchen spoon- 
ful of lard and when very hot put in the chicken and 
fry for about ten minutes. Have a quart of chopped 
okra (chopped round as you would a banana), and a 



10 

large onion sliced, add to the chicken and allow it to 
cool until it is a mass, and the okra ceases to be stringy 
then pour on it three quarts of boiling water, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and cook about forty-five minutes 
or until it is a thick soup. In frying the okra you must 
stir it frequently, as it must cook thoroughly and not 
brown or burn. This should be served at once with 
boiled rice, about a tablespoonful of rice in each soup- 
plate of gumbo. 

To Boil K-ice.— Two cups boiling water salted, 
one cup washed rice. Cook on a slow fire, in a well- 
covered porcelain lined pot for an hour or more or until 
each grain is separate and not sticky. When you think 
the rice is done "it is well to remove the Hd and allow 
the steam to escape for awhile. This prevents the rice 

from becoming gummy. — Mrs. Ii-a Eddleman. 

R,oman Soup. — One dozen potatoes, peeled, sliced 
and cooked to a mush. Rub through a fine sieve, one 
quart cream, one small onion, two bay leaves. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste; one teaspoonful each of 
butter and ceylon pepper. Serve hot. — Mrs. Paul Mel- 

Bean Soup AI ItaUen.- Boil navy beans until 
thoroughly done. Fry a slice of smoked breakfast ba- 
con, take out the bacon and add one very small onion 
and one cupful cooked tomatoes. Put the beans and 
their liquor through a sieve, then add all together and 

serve. -Mrs. Paul Mellinifjer. 

Cream Tomato Soup.— Put one cupful canned 
tomatoes into a sauce pan with one-half of a small onion 
chopped fine; cook for one-half an hour after the boil 
begins. Strain and rub through a colander and return 
to the fire. Season with pepper, salt to taste and one 
teaspoonful white sugar. Stir in by. degrees two table- 
spoonfuls butter, rubbed into two tablespoonfuls flour. 
Have ready in another pan one pint of boiling milk, in 
which has been dissolved a piece of soda size of a pea. 
Let the soup simmer for three minutes after the butter 
and flour go in. stirring well. Pour in tureen, add boil- 
ing milk, mix well and send to table. If milk and toma- 
toas are boiled together, they curdle in spite of soda. — 

Mrs Pauf Me.f!in;;t-.r, 



11 

Clear Celery Soup.— Cut into small pieces the 
white of one-half dozen heads of celery; cook until 
tender, drain through a sieve, then add to this two 
pints of chicken or beef broth, season, thicken slightly, 
and serve with small squares of toasted bread.— Mrs. 

W. S. stump. 

Beef Soup.— Take medium sized soup bone, place 
in kettle and cover completely with cold water, and 
simmer until meat is perfectly done. Season with 
plenty of pepper and salt when first put on the stove. 
An hour before serving this soup add one onion, one 
turnip, two large Irish potatoes, one carrot, all chopped 
fine; one-half cupful tomatoes and more salt and pepper 
if required. I like the meat to drop from the bone and 
remain in the soup. — Mrs. j. w.Swarthout. 

Amber Soup.— Take a chicken or the remains of 
two or more roasted ones and break in pieces, and add 
a soup bone with three quarts of water. Cook slowly 
for four hours. Then add one onion with six whole 
cloves stuck in it fried in a little hot fat; half a small 
carrot, parsley and three stalks of celery; cook for an- 
other hour, by which time the stock will have been re- 
dnced by boiling to two quarts. Strain into a large 
bowl and the following day remove the fat, which will 
have accumulated on the top. Take out the jellied 
stock, avoiding the settling, which will do for some 
sauce or gravy; let it heat and skim and mix in the 
beaten white of an egg; skim off carefully and strain 
through a fine strainer. It may then be heated when 
wanted and a tablespoonful of carmel added for rich 
coloring. The carmel is made by burning two table- 
spoonsful of sugar and adding one-half tea cup boiling 

water. —Mrs. W. G R.eynolds. 

Gear Bouillon and Whipped Cream.— Three 
pounds of veal; one chicken; two quarts of cold water 
and cook slowly for six hours; season well with salt and 
pepper. Garnish with whipped cream, drop one table- 
spoonful on top of each cup just before serving. To 
clear stock, let cool and remove the fat; beat the white 
of one egg till frothy, add with broken shell to the stock, 
heat slowly and stir constantly while bringing to the 
boiling point, then boil ten minutes without stirring; 



12 

set aside for ten minutes, strain through two thick- 
nesses of cheesecloth dipped in cold water. — Mrs. c. c. 

Sweet Corn Soup. — One can corn; one quart milk; 
large cup of cold water; season to taste with salt, pep- 
per and butter. Put the cold water and the corn on 
stove and iet come to a boil. Then simmer for a few 
minutes, press through a sieve; add milk and butter. If 
desired add a httie flour to thicken. — .virs. Charles E. 

Chilli. — Two and one-half pounds round of beef, 
ground and put in a red hot pan, with one tablesyoon- 
fal each of butter and ilour; pat in a stew pan with one 
pint of tomatoes and scant quart of cooked beans; a 
small onion chipped line; two tablespoons of chilli pep- 
per; a teaspoonful camenis seed; salt to taste. Cover 
with water and cook slowly for tv/o hours.-— Mrs. 

A. Turnbull. 

BouiUoo. — Boil v/ell a five-cent soup bone. Salt 
while boiling, let stand over night, then skim Oif all the 
grease; add one quart of tomatoes, one large -jiiion 
chopped, boil two hours longer and strain. When 
wanted, heat and put in tobasco sauce to taste. Serve 
in cups. Add a slice of lemon to each cup when ready 

to serve. — Mrs. L M. NVttbb, Cuinmbu-., O. 

Tomato Soiij>. — One pint of tomatoes, one quart 
of milk, heat the tomatoes and milk in separate ves- 
sels, seasoning the tomatoes highly. Just before serv- 
ing add one teaspoonful of soda io the tomatoes; then 
pour the tomatoes ir.to the milk, stiri'ing rapidly and 
serve immediataly. A cracker rolli-d to dust is some- 
times stirred in — Mrs. L. L. iCirby.Jerseyvilie, Hi. 



Flake hominy is ex?3eilent for thickening soups. 
Put in the amount desired about fifteen minutes before 
the soup is done. I like it best in chicken or vegetable 
soups. Rice is also good, but shordd be put in cold 
broth and simmered one-half hour. — Mrs. s. is. .«iialce. 

Tomato Soup.— Peel and cut fine six good sized 
tomatoes and boil in one quart of water, after boiling a 



13 

few minutes put in half teaspoon of soda; one pint of 
milk; add butter, salt and pepper to taste. — Mrs. liiien 

Pau'Jin. 

Cream of Corn Houp.-Score each row of 
grains on six ears of corn, then with the back of knife 
press out carefully, throw cobs into a kettle and cover 
with a quart of water, bring- to a boil and strain; add to 
the scraped corn. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one tablespoonful of flour, stir into the soup 
and bring to the boiling point; add one pint of milk, 
teaspoon of salt, and pepper to taste. Serve hot. — 

Mrs. C. B. Coziirt. 

E^§ Balls for Soup.— Rub the yolks of three 
hard boiled eggs to a smooth paste, using half teaspoon- 
fui of butter, salt and pepper to taste, add to this one 
raw egg, and just enough flour to hold paste together. 
Make into small balls with floured hands. Set in a cool 
place and just before serving put into the boiling soup 
and boil two minutes. — Mrs. E. N. Blake. 

Croutons— Cut slices of bread into dice and 
toast them in the oven until a golden brown and crisp 
to the center. 

If you desire a dainty addition to your beef bouil- 
on, add four or five grains of hot pop corn to each cup. 

Some like a stuffed olive dropped in just before 
serving. 



14 



Bread, Biscuits and tiolls. 

liop Yeast.— Boil six large potatoes until ten- 
der; steep a handful of hops in one pint boiling water, 
for ten minutes, strain through a fine seive; take the 
water from the potatoes and hops and while hot pour 
over one half pint white flour, let cool; mash the pota- 
toes and beat until light; dissolve two home made yeast 
cakes in one half pint luke warm water. Add the pota- 
toes to the scalded flour, then thfe yeast, one half tea 
cupful granulated sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one half 
pint warm water, and corn meal sufficient to make a 
stiff sponge; set to rise in a warm place for four hours, 
then add enough meal to make a stiff dough; make 
into small cakes and dry in the shade. The cakes 
should be turned the second or third day to keep them 
from souring. Never let this yeast get too warm, for 
yeast is a plant and too much heat will kill it, and pre- 
vent its growth, or more commonly speaking, prevent its 
rising. I have used this yeast for years and it has 
always proved satisfactory. — Mrs. z E. Coombes. 

Yoast Bread.— At noon put one-half yeast cake 
to soak in one pint warm water; when soft add, while 
warm, one pint of water in which peeled potatoes have 
been boiled; also add about three medium sized potatoes 
thoroughly mashed; Stir in enough flour to make a stiff 
batter; cover and set in a warm place; at night add 
another quart of water, stir in more flour to make a 
stiff batter. Early in the morning add four tablespoon- 
fuls granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls salt, and flour to 
mold stiff"; let it rise to double its bulk; mold, let 
rise again, to double its bulk, then make out 
in five or six medium sized loaves, let rise until double 
in bulk, then bake in a moderate oven, hot enough to 
brown nicf^lv in one hour, — Mrs. a ii Bi-ik.«,GrU«tfo, Wyo. 

Wliite Bread. -One pint of water drained from 
boiled peeled potates, with tv/o tablespoonfuls finely 
mashed patatoes added. Set it aside and scald a pint of 



15 

milk, adding when scalded, one tablespoonful sugar and 
one teaspoonful salt. Now in a quart bowl put a tea- 
cupful of lukewarm water and one cake of Yeast Foam. 
Let it dissolve slowly then add a pinch of salt and 
enough flour to thicken moderatlely. Place it where it 
will keep warm, and at night put the potato water, milk 
and risen yeast together in the bread bowl, stirring in 
enough flour to make a stiff batter; beat well and set 
it where it will keep warm. In the morning stir in onehalf 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in warm water; add flour to 
mold stiff, let it rise again and make into loaves. When 
risen, bake about one hour. 

"Salt iiisin^'* Bread. -Scald onehalf pint 
sweet milk, and pour on one teacupf ul corn meal ; add 
two pints warm water; one tablespoonful white sugar, 
and a very little salt; stir in sufficient flour to make a 
stiff sponge, beat briskly for a few minutes, and set in 
a kettle of warm water; keep the water at an even 
temperature. In four and one half hours, if it has not 
come up, stir in a small quantity of baking soda (about 
the size of a grain of coffee) and beat briskly for Ave 
minutes. Keep in a very warm place and it will raise 
in about one hour. Then take sufficient flour to make a 
dough, one-half teaspoonful salt, and one heaping table- 
spoonful lard; mix and work briskly for fifteen minutes; 
mold and put in well greased pans; brush top lightly with 
lard, and let raise for one hour in a warm place, then 
bake in a moderate oven one hour This quantity makes 
four loaves. I use small agate iron pans for baking. All 
light bread is better baked in small pans, for the starch 
in the flour is more perfectly converted into sugar, hence 
the bread is sweeter and more wholesome. — Mrs. Z. e. 

C«>ombes. 

(X>rn Pone 5aft l2Lsia§.-Three pints water, 
one heaping tablepoonful salt; stir in corn meal as in 
making mush; when cooked remove from the fire and 
add three pints cold water, two tablespoanf uls sugar and 
thicken with meal; set in a warm place; let raise four or 
five hours, then put in a deep pan and bake three hours. 

— Airs Mary S. Maxwell. 



16 

Salt R,isiiig Bread.— One-half pint of morning's 
milk, boiling hot;scald enough meal to make a thin batter, 
add a pinch of salt and set in a warm place over night. 
In the morning take one pint boiling milk and enough 
cold milk to cool it; make a sponge with flour and put in 
the meal sponge set the night before; add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful soda, add all to the morning sponge; when 
light add one-half teacupful sugar, butter or lard the 
size of an egg, and mix in the flour when you mold into 

loaves. — Mrs, Lrtna llswin.s, Toxlinn, Texa^i. 

Entire Wheat Bread.— One and one-half cupfuls 
sour milk; one-half cupfuls Orleans molasses; 
one-fourth level teaspoonful salt; one level tea- 
spoonful soda, beaten into the molasses; 
three cupfuls entire wheat flour, or two cup-fuls entire 
wheat flour and one cupful white flour. This should be 
as thick as can be stirred with a spoon. Bake in a slow 
oven from three-fourths to one hour. — Mrs. c. K. Luc«. 

Steamed Brown Bread.— Two cupfuls butter- 
milk; one cupful sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls soda; one 
cupful molasses, one-half cupful sugar, one and 
one-half cupfuls corn meal; two cupfuls graham 
flour; one-half cupful white flour; a little salt. Use 
raisinsif wanted, steam three hours.— Mrs. L. M . Webb, 

5teamed Graham Bread. —Two cupfuls graham 
flour, one cupful meal, onehalf cupful molasses, one 
pint sour milk, one teaspoonful each of soda and salt, 

Steem three hours. — Mr». R. L Bnardsfee, Upp^ir Al- 
ton, iti. 

Boston Brown Bread. — Two cupfuls corn meal. 
one cupful flour, tv^^o cupfuls sweet milk, one cupful 
sour milk one-half cupful Orleans molasses. Steam three 
hours. After it has steamed set in the oven a few 

minutes. —Mrn. V E Aoken, MorriNonville, III. 

Corn Bread. — One egg, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one teasi)oonful salt; beat together; add one pint sour 
milk, one level teaspoonful soda, one scant pint corn 
meal, one cupful flour, one tablespoonful of lard, melted, 

added boihng hot the last thing. — Mrs.FranersBrown- 
Jcc, Jcrseyvillo, I!! 



17 

Mush Bread — Put one pint milk over the fire, 
sprinkle into it three-fourths cupful corn meal; cook for 
a minute, take from the fire and add one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt, one tablespoonful butter, the yolks of three 
eggs, stir in one at a time not beaten, then stir in the 
whites of the eggs beaten very stiff: turn into a baking 
dish and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, — 

Mrs. Luther i1, Pafton, 

Soft Corn Bread. — One pint cooked corn grits 
(cooked as dry as possible) , one pint sweet milk, one- 
half pint corn meal, one tablespoonful butter, four eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder; to the cooked grits 
add the butter, break in the eggs one by one, add meal, 
milk, and baking powder. Heat the skillet very hot. 
Put in the mixture. Bake twenty minutes. — Mrs, Paul 

Me.liin^er; 

Coffee Bread — One cupful sponge, two table- 
spoonfuls butter melted, two-thirds cupful sugar, one 
cupful seeded raisins, one-half teaspoon! ul salt, one cup- 
ful warm sweet milk; make dough, knead, let rise; 
when light m.old into loaves; let rise again. Just be- 
fore putting in oven, moisten the top of each loaf with 
cream or milk, and sprinkle generously with cinnamon 
and sugar; bake about thirty minutes or until done, 

according to the size of the loaves. — Mrs. Joseph riunler , 

Cream Gems.— l cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoon fuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 cupfuls 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt.— 

Mrs. tl. rS. t^oberf.'i, WtchiSa, Kans. 

Beaten Biscuit.— One quart flour, one large 
spoonful of lard, one teaspoonf al salt, milk enough to 
make a stiff dough; beat hard for twenty minutes or until 
the dough blisters and is soft. Roll out a little thinner 
than other bis cuit; cut out, pick v/ith a fork; bake in a 
moderately quick oven. These are especially nice served 
at social functions instead of bread. — Mrs. !^osamon<i 

Cioo<!year, Scdaita, Mo. 

Light l^oils or Tcci Biscuit.— One pint 
sweet milk, let come to a boil, add one-half cupful butter 
and after it melts remove from stove. Dissolve veast in 



18 

a little v/arm water or milk; thicken with flour and let 
rise over night. In the morning add three eggs, beaten 
separately, a little salt, one-half cupful sugar; after 
dinner cut into biscuits and let rise until tea-time. — 

iVJr-s. Theodore. Boardsloo, St. Louis, Mo. 

iiraiidma Beardsfec's l^usk.— One bowl 
of sweet milk, one bowl yeast, one bowl sugar- This 
to be mixed as yeast and left to rise over night. Then 
mix very stiff and add one cupful butter, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, let rise again; when light make out in small 
cakes. Bake half an hour. — Mrs. p. a. Van DerVoort, 

Joi'soy viilf,, !l!. 

I^otato I^oIiS. — Beat one egg, to that add one 
cupful sweet milk, one cupful mashed Irish potatoes, 
three- fourths cake compressed yeast, enough flour to 
make batter as you v/ould any yeast; set this to rise about 
twelve o'clock. At two, measure one quart of flour and 
put yeast into flour, add one-half cupful lard, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one. fourth cupful sugar; when the quart 
ol flour is all worked in, put bread to rise again. At 
four o'clock roll out as for biscuits, cut and fold to- 
gether, baste with batter and let set until ready to bake 
for six o'clockdinner. — Mrs. si. E. Cntfca. 

Scotch Scones.— One pint of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, two teaspoonsfuls baking- 
powder and a little salt all sifted together; 
work into this a tablespoonful of cold lard or 
butter, then a beaten egg and enough sweet milk to 
make a medium ball. Bake on hot griddle in big cakes 

and butter while hot. — Mrs. Joseph fiunter. 

H'afflt'.S.— Two cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls milk, 
one-half cupful melted butter, two teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, one teaspoonful salt, two eggs with whites 
and yolks beaten separately. Have w^affle irons hot and 
well greased. Serve on a hotplate, — Mrs. E. b, f?oii. 

KaisedlMofrins.-One pint sweet milk, butter 
the size of an egg and warmed until partly melted; 
add to the milk a pinch of salt, four eggs well beaten 
separately, then add one-half cupful of strong yeast, 



19 

stir in enough sifted flour to make quite a thick batter. 
Heat the muffin rings and grease them, and put them 
on a hot greased griddle, then fill the rings a little more 
than half full of the batter. When one side is cooked, 
slip a knife under them with a quick movement, turn 
the muffin ring and all. The stove must be kept at a 
moderate even heat. Test one to see if it is cooked 
done through. These are fine for breakfast or tea. — 

Mrs. Paul Mellinger 

IVluffins. — One egg, one-half cupful sugar, one 
cupful sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one tablespoonful butter, two cups flour. — Mrs. Raiph 

Workman. 

Rice Muffins.— Two cupfuls sifted flour in a 
bowl, add to it one-half teaspoonful salt and three level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; beat one cupful milk into 
one cupful of cold boiled rice, then add three table- 
spoonsful melted butter and one well beaten egg; stir this 
into the flour mixture and beat very light. Fill buttered 
gem pans two thirds full and bake twenty minutes in a 

quick oven —Mr. ^. Josoph Munf«r. 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit for Break= 

fcisi".- Warm the biscuit in the oven to restore crispness 
—don't burn— pour hot milk over it, dipping the milk over 
it until the shreds are sv/ollen; then pour a little cream 
over the top of the biscuit, or serve with cold milk 
or cream, according to indixddual taste. 

Pocketbook l^olls.— On baking day use a por- 
tion of your bread dough, or take two quarts of sifted 
flour, one pint milk, two tablespoonfuls lard, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one-half cupful yeast. Put the flour in- 
to a bread pan. Make a hollow in the center of it, pour in 
the milk, that has been scalded, with the lard melted in it 
and let cool; then add the sugar and yeast. Let stand 
about two and one half hours without mixing; and 
knead and let rise twice its size, knead again then roll 
out to one-half inch thick, cut with large or small bis- 
cuit cutter, according to size wanted. Press a pencil 
down across middle of each, brush edges with soft 



20 

butter, double each, lay one inch apart on flat greased 
tins; let rise; when light bake for fifteen or twenty- 
minutes. —Mrs i-:. N. Blake. 

Milk Biscuit — Sift together one pint flour, 
one hall teaspoonful salt, one heaping teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder; rub in one rounded teaspoonful lard, add 
one-half pint milk, mix to a soft dough, flour the 
board, then turn out dough, pat in shape with 
(loured hands; do not knead; roll out about one- 
half inch thick, cut with small round cutter; lay them 
one inch apart on slightly greased tins. Bake about 
fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven. They should 
be a delicate brown, top and bottom, and inside snowy 
white when broken open. This recipe will make two 
dozen biscuits when cut with a cutter two inches in di- 
ameter. Small biscuits are considered most hygienic. — 

Rice Grit Id to Cakes.— Put one cup boiled 
rice in one quart of sweet milk and let stand one-half 
hour, then add one teaspoonful salt, one-half cupful 
melted butter, and one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
warm water, thicken with flour. — Mrs- W. s. Max veil. 

I ^anCi:^ kes.— Sif t together one and one-half pints 
flour, one tablespoonf ul sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two 
leaspoonfuls baking powder; add two eggs, well beaten 
and one and one-half pints sweet milk; beat to a smooth 
batter; bake on a hot griddle. — A! rs. L. Charvoz. 

Be-jion BuscuiL— Onepuart flour, one cook- 
ing spoonful of lard, one teaspoonful salt, milk enough 
to make a stifl:' dough- Beat hard for twenty minutes 
or until the dough blisters and is soft. _ Roll put a little 
thinner than other biscuits, cut out, pick with a fork, 
bake in a moderately quick oven. — Mrs. i>o-amon(i ciood- 

WiifftCS.— Two eggs, two cupfuls sweet milk> 
two cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder* 
three tablespoonf uls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half cud butter. — Mm. E. B. !2oli. 



21 



Fish. 

Salt mackerel, soaked over night, in cold water, 
and other small fish should be boiled or fried. Slices 
or steaks of large fish, dipped in beaten,: egg 
then in cracker crumbs are good fried. Fresh 
salmon, mackerel and large blue fish are oily- 
fish and should not be fried. Boil oily fish if 
large and broil them if small. Cod, Haddock, blue 
fish, small salmon, bass and shad may be stuffed and 
baked whole. Serve fish with bread and potatoes, and 
cucumbers if in season. Cream and egg sauces, with 
lobster, oyster and shrimp; tart sauces are served with 
boiled fish. Small fish for boiling may be put into Ijoil- 
ing salted water; large fish, or large pieces of fish should 
be put over the fire in cold water. Garnish boiled fish 
with lemon slices and parsley. 

Saucos for t"ish.— Broiled fresh mackerel, 
stewed gooseberries; boiled blue fish, v/hite cream sauce.' 
Broiled shad, boiled rice and salad. Fresh salmon, 
green peas and cream sauce. Hollandaise sauce is used 
with most fresh water fish, as white, cat or pickerel. 

Baktxl l>cd S^nappcr.-Take firm, good- 
sized fish, clean, wash and rub with salt and pepper. 
Place in a roaster with slices of bacon under, inside and 
over it. Secure these v/ith tooth picks (to be removed 
when done.) Pour two cupfuls of hot water around it 
and bake two hours in a moderate oven. (a 
sage dressing may be used if liked.) Serve a 
white sauce over the baked fish; made by rub- 
bing an ounce of butter with two ounces of flour, 
and adding a large cupful of boiling water; add 
salt, pepper and pinch of mustard.— Mrs Lnfiu-.r ii 

Paiton, 

Baked Fish.— Clean the fish, rinse it and v/ipe 
it dry; rub it outside and inside with salt and pepper 
and fill it with a stulTing made with slices of bi'ead. 



22 

buttered freely and moistened with hot milk or water. 
Lay bits of butter over the fish and dredge with flour, 
and put a pint of hot water in the pan, to baste with. 
If a large fish, bake one hour in a quick oven, basting 

frequently. — Mrs. Arthur Anderson. 

Baked Fish.— This recipe is to be used for 
large fish, such as the red snapper or salmon trout. 
Handle gently while dressing and lay carefully in a 
baking pan with just enough water to keep from scorch- 
ing. If large, score the back with a sharp knife. Bake 
slowly and baste often with butter and water. Be care- 
ful that the appearance be not marred. When done 
have ready in a sauce pan a cup of cream, diluted with 
a few spoonfuls of v/ater to prevent clotting in heating, 
in which has been stirred two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, and a little chopped parsley. Heat this in a 
vessel set within another of boiling water; add the gra- 
vy from the dripping pan, boil up once to thicken and 
when the trout is laid carefully in a hot platter, pour 
the sauce around him. Garnish with nasturtiums and 

parsley. Salt lightly, — Mrs. S. B Laune. 

J^cilmon Loah— One can salmon, three eggs 
well beaten; one tablepoonful of butter, two cupfuls 
fine bread crumbs, about two-thirds cupful milk, salt 
and pepper to taste. Chop the fish fine, rub it in a 
bowl with a silver spoon, add the butter, beat the 
bread crumbs with the eggs, season with salt and pep- 
per, work all together, add milk gradually, till a smooth 
paste. Put in a buttered mold and boil or steam one 
hour. Turn out and serve with sauce. 

SaiK'e.- One cupful milk, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one tablespoonful flour, one egg, juice of one 
lemon, pinch of mace and red pepper, boil one minute, 

pour over the fish and serve. — Miss Jessie Walker. 

Walled SallYkOn.-Cook and mash potatoes and 
m.ake a wall of them around a platter. Into the hollow 
center put the salmon, after preparing it in this way; 
put some butter into a pan; when melted, stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, add cupful of milk, and when thick 
Vidd the pieces of salmon; when hot, pour into the 
platter and serve. -Mrs s. s .waiierhousc. 



steamed Salmon Loai'.-Remove the bones 
and skin from one can of salmon, add one cupful 
of bread crumbs, two eggs, well beaten with 
the bread crumbs, one table spoonful of lemon 
juice; salt and pepper to taste; one tablespoon- 
ful celery seed, thoroughly mix and steam two 
hours. Serve with Mayonaise dressing. — Mrs. (t. s. 

Creamed baimon.— One can red salmon, 
one- cupful rolled crackers, one taqlespoonful of butter 
and one tabiespoonful of flour, one teacupful of cream; 
remove bones from salmon and mix with crackers.' 
Take salmon liquor and put in a skillet, add butter, 
flour and cream; and cook until thick, then pour over 
salmon. Garnish with slices of lemon and serve. — tMrs. 

J. \V. Swarihouf. 

Codfish Balls.-Boil and pick the codfish. 
Boil potatoes and mash well, mix with a piece of butter 
and season with salt and pepper; add cream enough to 
moisten. Mix thoroughly using equal quantities of cod- 
fish and potato. Make into cakes and fry in boiling- 
lard. If desired garnish with sliced hard boiled eggs, 

— Mrs. M. K. Beardslee. 

Creamed Codfish.-Soak one-half pound 
codfish in cold water over night. Pour off water and 
boil until tender, changing water if very salt Pick 
into small pieces, add this to white sauce made as fol- 
lows: Sauce.— One -half cupful sweet milk, brought to 
to boiling point, and thickened with one tabiespoonful 
l)utter and one tablesp juntui of hour, bienaea togeti.er. 
Serve very hot. The fish may be prepared over night! 

— Mrs. C. K. Luc«. 

^ Codfish :Soiiffle.-One-haIf pint bread crumbs 
heated with one-half cupful milk; when hot and smooth 
add a dash of cayenne, and one-half box Beardsley's 
Shredded Codfish. After thoroughly mixing, add two 
beaten yolks of eggs and a tabiespoonful of butter Beat 
the whites of three eggs to a froth, fold quickly into 
mixture and bake light brown in ramekins or baking- 
dish —Mrs. i£, N. Blake. 



24- 

Mackei-e^-Salt mackerel should be soaked all 
night. Lay mackerel in a pan long enough to keep 
from breaking the fish when lifting it from the pan. 
To cook, pour boiling water over it and boil three min- 
utes. Drain all the wate off. Pour boiling water over 
and drain again. Place on a platter and lay on bits of 
butter. Garnish v/ith slices of lemon and serve at- 

once. — ^^r^- i^'i'iar N. Blako 

Saliuon with lloliandaisc Dressin'j.— 

Pour oil off one can salmon,^ break one egg in the oil, 
juice of one lemon, one-half cupful sweet milk, pinch 
of salt, one teaspoonful mustard. Beat all together. 
Cook to a cream and beat again. Put one tablespoonful 
chopped onion over salmon, then pour on the dressing, 
gej-ve while dressing is hot. — -'^^ -'»•'>' '^miii.. 

Oy^sfer (lor.klail — Put in sherbet glasses. 
one teaspoonful Worchester Sauce, one teaspoonful 
tomato catsup, two drops tobasco sauce, one table- 
spoonful lemon juice, dash of salt, and six small fresli 
oysters. Serve with salted wafers as first course for 

luncheon. — Mrs r. L. O' Bryan. 

EsCcifopcd Oysters — Place a laj^er of oys- 
ters in baking dish; sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 
lumps of butter, (also fine cut up celery if desired) ; over 
this spread a layer of rolled cracker crumbs; then }:»our 
on enough millc to moisten crumbs thoroughly. Con- 
thiue alternate layers until dish is filled leaving the top 
layer of cracker crumbs with butter enough to l-rown 
nicely- Bake in a moderate oven from 45 to 60 min- 
utes. — SM-^s E izabcHi Mo?Seai, ruitl»r(e., «Mcl.>, 

Oeamed Oysters on !3osivrtos< -Parboil 
the oysters, put 3 or 4 oysters on top of each rosette- 
Take one pint of rich milk and thicken as for sauce. When 
cooked, pour in the Mquor from one quart can of oysters 
(use fresh ones), a tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Make sauce first, then parboil the 
oysters, pour sauce over them and serve hoc. (See 
recipe for Rosettes.) — '^'^*-*- ^ ^- ^''-k.-,. 



25 



Meats. 

Meat U,ules. —When cutting- meat to cook 
always cut across the grain of the muscle. Never 
wash fresh meat; scrape it if necessary, or wipe 
it with a damp cloth, but never put it in water, 
nor directly on the ice; put in a vessel on the ice. 
If you baste roast meat, do not use salt in the 
basting. Never salt meat before it is cooked; 
wait until it is partly done. In boiling put fresh 
meats in hot water and salt meats in cold water. 
Never salt and pepper broiling meats while cook- 
ing, season with salt, pepper and butter after re- 
moving from tlie gridiron. If you have no grid- 
ii'on you will find a "pan broil" very nice. (See 
"Directions and Explanations.") Put a little sugar in 
the water used for basting all kinds of meat. It im- 
proves the flavor, especially veal. 

In cooking tuough fowls or.^ meats, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar in the water will save nearly 
two hours Ijoiling. 

Meats and their R-elishes,— with roast 
beef, use a relish of Worcestershire sauce, to- 
mato catsup or grated horse radish. Roast pork, 
apple sauce; roast veal, Tomato sauce or Mushroom 
sauce; Roast Mutton, currant jelly; Boiled Mutton, 
caper sauce; Roast Lamb, mint sauce, or a sauce of 
stewed gooseberries; Broiled Steak, fried onions, 
mushrooms or Saratoga chips. 

Pot lioast.— A large kitchen spoonful of lard 
heated to the boiling point, in a kettle or pot, 
one scant tabtespoonful of flour, browned well in 
the lard; then put in the roast, well salted and 
peppered, and allow it to brown quickly on both 
sides; then add one onion sliced; a bit of garlic 
mashed to a pulp; when the onion becomes soft 
and transparent, pour on enough boiling water to 



26 

almost cover the roast, and let it cook on top of 
the stove until done. If the gravy cooks down 
before the roast is done, add boiling water. The 
roast will be juicy and* tender and you vvill have 

delicious brown gravy. — Mrs. ira Eddlsman. 

Spiced Beef.— Four pounds round of beef 
chopped fine; take from it ail fat, add to it three 
dozen small crackers rolled fine, four eggs, one 
cupful of milk; one tablespoonful ground mace, 
two tablespoonfuls black pepper, one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter; mix well and put in any pan that 
it will just fill, packing it well. Baste with butter 
and water and bake tu^o hours in a slow oven. — 

iMrs. Arthur Anderson. 

Baked ilasl'i. — a slice of ham one inch 
thick, sugar it and dredge with flour; cover it with 
shces of tomatoes, dredge this again with fiour, 
pepper and bake slowly, two hours in a covered 

dish. — Mrs. E. li Linn. 

Broiled Biicon in |he Ovc^ii,— Try broil- 
ing bacon in the oven sometime, and sigh that you 
have not done sooner. The oven must be very 
hot and the bacon shut in a folding broiler and 
over a roasting pan. Turn, to brown lightly on 
each side, as you would in turning over coals, and 
it will come out perfectly cooked, without grease, 
and just the proper degree of crispness. — Mrs. Edgar 

M. Biake. 

To Cure liann.-Nine pounds of salt; 
four ounces saltpeter; one pound salei'atus (or soda) ; 
one and a half pounds brown sugar; one-half pint 
molasses (New Orleans); six gallons soft water; 
boil the whole, skim it. When cold pour it over 
one hundred pounds of meat. — iN. K. Beardsioe. 

To Corn Beef.- Eight gallons of water, two 
pounds of brown sugar; one quart of N. 0- mo- 
lasses; four ounces of saltpeter; two tablespoon- 
fuls soda; salt enough to float an egg. Use rock 
salt. Recipe, sufficient for one hundred pounds of 

meat. — iS. K. Bcardslee. 



21 

Sour iVleat.— Place meat in pan and season 
with salt, pepper and mixed ground spices (table- 
spoonful of each.) Cover same with vinegar and 
let stand about ten hours or over night. Take out 
of vinegar and place on the stove to stew, from 
time to time baste with the seasoned vinegar, and 
when meat is nearly done, add the rem.ainder of 
the seasoned vinegar and serve hot— Mrs. Eirzab«th 

Baked CalFs Meart.— Wash off the blood, 
do not soak it, as the water extracts the Havor. Stuff 
it with a stuffing made of coarse bread crumbs, sea- 
soned with butter, salt and pepper, and a little, thyme, 
onion or sage. Put the stuffing in a crock and pour 
over it, enough hot vv'^ater to soften the crumbs. Cover 
tightly and let stand until soft. Then stuff the heart. 
Tie a piece of buttered paper over the mouth of the 
heart to keep the stuffing in. Put into a sm.all baking 
pan^ with a little hot water, pepper and salt Bake 
about two hours, basting frequently. Thicken the 
gravy with nour rubbed smooth in milk. It is very 
good sliced when cold and served with tomato sauce. — 

Cold Meat Oravy.—Chop bits of any kind of 
cold meat fine; put a little butter into a sauce pan, and 
brown the chopped meat; add milk enough to make de- 
sired quantity of gravy, and thicken. Season with salt 

and pepper. — Mrs. W. O. Townsend, Gillette, Wyo. 

Koast Pork.— A small loin of pork; three 
tablespoonfi^ls bread crumbs; one onion; half teaspoon- 
ful chopped sage; half a teaspoonful salt;half teaspoon- 
ful pepper; one ounce of chopped suet; one tablespoon- 
ful drippings; separate each joint of the loin with a 
chopper and then make an incision with a knife into 
the thick part of the pork in which to put the stuffing. 
Prepare the stuffing by mixing the bread crumbs to- 
gether with the onion, which must be chopped; add to 
this the sage, pepper, salt and suet, mixed thoroughly. 
Press the mixture snugly into the incision, grease a 
sheet of kitchen paper v,'ith drippings, place the loin 
into this, securing it with a wrapping of twine. Put it 
in a dry baking pan, in a brisk oven, basting immedi- 



28 

ately and constantly as the grease draws out. Allow 
twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes longer. 
Serve with apple sauce or apple fritters. — Mrs Charie.s 

V^eal Chops.— Take six or seven finely cut 
chops, season with salt and pepper, and put them into 
melted butter. When sufficiently soaked put them into 
beaten eggs, take them out and roll each separately in 
bread crumbs. Make the chops as round as you can 
with your hand and lay them in a dish. When all are 
breaded, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that 
the bread may not be too highly colored. Serve with 

clear gravy. — M rs. Claudo Davis. 

Stuffed Beef Steak. -One large juicy steak, 
without bone; salt and pepper, then make a dressing of 
two teacupfuls dry bread crumbs, one teaspconf ul sage, 
a pinch of salt and pepper; mix with v/ater or meat 
liquor, if you have it, ^pread it over the steak, roll and 
tie, like a jelly roll, t-ut it in a pan and lay suet around 
it and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. — Mrs j. vv. 

Pickled Beef Ton^^iu-.-Wash, scrape and 
put the tongue in cool water and bring quickly to boil- 
ing point and let boil slowly, until tender. When nearly 
done, salt. Let cool in the water- When cold peel and 
sUce rather thin and place in a deep dish or jar and 
cover with vinegar and add five or six cloves, two bay 
leaves, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper, one-half tea- 
spoonful sugar. Serve with horseradish. — Mrs. Ida i)ohe.r. 

Cold Meat Pie,— Put the nice scraps of cold 
meat through the meat chopper, add small lumps of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, juice of a small onion, 
two tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der; sift into meat, mix thoroughly; add two-thirds cup- 
ful boiling water to about a pint of the mixture. Line 
baking dish with cold boiled rice one-half inch thick. 
Bake in moderate oven for one-half hour. Put one 
quart of tomatoes, through a seive, add salt and pepper 
and one tablespoonful of vinegar, rub together a table- 
spoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of butter, cooked 
thick. Turn pie out on a platter and pour sauce over 

it. — Mrs. liagene (Chamberlain. 



29 

Smolherei! Beefsteak and Onions.— i 

use a round steak, cut in pieces, suitable for family- 
serving. Salt and pepper and dredge with plenty of 
flour. Have lard smoking hot and put in the steak, 
brown quickly and turn, then add a cup of chopped 
onions, salted, let all brown well and then pour over 
steak and onions enough boiling water to cover them. 
Cover the griddle and cook slowly until gravy is of 
right consistency; then steak is ready for serving. — Mrs. 

il. n. ^tellings. 

Fried Sweetbreads.— Pour boiling water 
over the sweetbreads and let remain until cold enough 
to handle. Then skin, roll in cracker crumbs, to which 
has been added salt and pepper. Drop in hot, deep fat 
and fry a golden brown. — .vsrs. N. s. Hudson. 

Baked Hash.— chop enough cold boiled beef 
to make one quart. Chop fine two large potatoes, and 
one large onion. Mix together and add one and one- 
half cupfuls rich stock, or one cupful of hot water and 
one tablespoonful bacon grease. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Cook down low and set in the oven to brown. — 

i'.irs. Percy Corneil. 

English Pasty.— Make a rich biscuit dough 
and line a baking dish. Slice potatoes, carrots and 
onions to fill the dish; have them cooked until tender. 
Put in dish and cover with thin slices of bacon. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Cover with water. Put 
on top crust and bake in a moderate "oven until crust is 

done. — iVIrs. a. E. B.'ake, OJIietfe, Wyo. 

Scalloped \'^eaL— Boil four eggs hard, slice 
them and line a dish, place a layer of raw veal, sliced 
thin. Mix chopped ham, one egg, and sage for next 
layer; then another of veal, and so on until dish is full. 
Cover with a flat cover, put weight on top to 
press. Steam four hours. To be eaten cold, thinly 

sliced. — :v!rs r. B. liozarl. 

Moai IH tewed wish Dumplings.— Cut two 
pounds of meat into cubes of one inch each, put them 



30 

in hot pan and shake over a hot fire until each piece of 
meat is thoroughly seared. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, oil or suet into a sauce pan and add one table- 
spoonful of flour and mix thoroughly, add one pint of 
water and stir until boiling, a level teaspoonful of salt, 
a slice of onion; add meat, cover and cook slowly for 
two hours. Dumplings— Sift one pint of flour with one 
teaspoonful baking powder and one-half teaspoonful 
salt, add sufficient milk to mix with flour and drop by 
teaspoonfuls over top of meat. Cover and cook for fif- 
teen minutes without raising the lid. Dish dumplings 
around edge of platter and the meat in the center.— 

Mrs. F. T. Beckett. 

Steamed Le§ of Mutfon. -Wash and put 

the leg in the steamer and cook it until tender, then 
place in a roasting pan, salt, and dredge well with flour 
and set in a hot oven until nicely browned. The water 
that remains in the bottom of the steamer may be used 
for soup. Serve the mutton with currant jelly.— Mrs. 

Ellen Paullln. 

Yorkshire Puddhl^j.— Take one-half pint of 
meat drippings from a good beef roast, to this add one 
pint sweet milk, one scant pint of flour well sifted with 
a pinch of salt, whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

- Mrs F. H. Sehell. 

Noodles.— One egg well beaten, two table- 
spoonfuls sweet cream, one saltspoonful of salt, flour 
to make a stiff dough. Roll on the board until very 
thin, sprinkle plenty of flour over the dough ; roll up, as 
for a jelly roll, then cut into narrov/ strips v/ith a sharp 
knife. Shake out and sprinkle with one-half cupful flour 
and let stand for thirty minutes to dry. After your meat 
is cooked, take it from the kettle and put in the noodles. 
Cook for twenty minutes, rather slowly. Stir them oc- 
casionally to prevent sticking to the kettle. No thick- 
ening is required. This is enough for six or eight 
persons. These noodles may also be used for soup. — Mrs 

Earl Blake. Wlohita, Kansas. 



31 

Pressed Veal.-Two pounds of good veal, 
boil until very tender, let stand until cool, then grind very 
fine in an ordinary grinder. Take a heaping tablespoonful 
of flour and two-thirds of a cupful of butter; stir until 
well mixed- Stir this into a cupful of boiling water in 
saucepan, let cook a few minutes, season well and pour 
over veal. Stir both together thoroughly and pack 
with spoon in a small square earthen dish. Let 
stand for some time, when it will sHce nicely. — Mrs' 

J. ft. Wallace. 



Fish and Meat Sauces. 

Two level tablespoonfuls of butter mixed with two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour v^ill thicken each half-pint 
of liquid: — 

(1.) WhiteSauce.— Rub the butter and flour to- 
gether and add a half-pint of milk; stir until boiling. 

(2. ) Tomato Sauce. —Rub the butter and flour 
together and add a half-pint of strained tomatoes, sea- 
soned to taste. 

(3.) English Drawn ButtePw— Rub the butter 
and flour together and add a half -pint of boiling water; 
stir until boiling, then add salt and pepper and stir in 
at last an extra tablespoonful of butter; stir until all is 
smooth. 

(4.) Brown Sauce.— Use the butter and flour 
wath a half a pint of stock; stir until boiling. 

(5.) Holland Sauce.— Put a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut into a sauce pan, when it melts, add a 
level tablespoonful of flour, stir until the flour is cooked 
smooth, then stir in one-half pint boiling water. When 
it boils take it from the fire and stir into it, gradually, 
the beaten yolks of four eggs. Return the sauce to the 
fire for a minute to set the eggs; do not allow it to boil. 
Remove from the fire and stir into it the juice of a 
small lemon and fresh butter the size of a walnut. Stir 
all together, beating well. Season with salt and pepper. 

(6.) Caper Sauce.— Melt one cup butter and stir 
in one tablespoonful of flour; when the two are well 
mixed add pepper and salt and one pint boiling water. 
Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens, then add 
three tablespoonfuls French capers. If you prefer, the 
beaten yolk of one egg and juice of half a lemon, may 
be added. 

(7. ) Mint Sauce— Chop fine fresh mint and use 
four tablespoonfuls; two teaspoonfuls powdered sugar; 
six tablespoonfuls vinegar; a dash of salt and pepper. 
Mix thoroughly, let stand an hour or two before serv- 
ing. 



(8.) Horse Radish Butter.— Work together one 
tablespoon ful butter, and one teaspoonful grated horse 
radish. One-third saltspoonful each of white pepper 
and salt. Mould into tiny balls and serve on broiled 
steak or roasted beef. 

(9.) Canned Mushroom Sauce.— One-half tea- 
cupful of the liquor from the mushrooms, one-half cup- 
ful of water, one-half tablespoonful butter; put in an 
enameled saucepan and let simmer a few minutes. Add 
one-half can of mushrooms and one teaspoonful flour. 
Cook until it thickens; season with pepper and salt. 

(10. ) Cream Egg Sauce. — One pint of milk thick- 
ened with one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed into two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, season well v/ith salt and pap- 
rica, add two or three hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 

(11.) Curry Sauce.— Mince fine a large shce of 
onion and brown in a tablespoonful of butter. Mix a 
tablespoonful of curry powder with a tablespoonful of 
flour, add to the butter and stir until smooth. Then 
add a cupful of broth and boil five minutes. 

(12. ) Tartar Sauce. —Mix the yolks of two eggs, 
one saltspoonful salt, one saltspoonful pepper, one level 
teaspoonful mustard, one tablespoonful lemon juice 
and one tablespoonful of vinegar; stir until smooth and 
then add one-half cupful salad oil, drop by drop. Add 
lastly, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and one 
tablespoonful of chopped gherkins. Stir in the parsley 
and gherkins with a fork. 

(13.) Cranberry Sauce.— Wash a quart ofi'ripe 
cranberries, put them into a stew pan with one-half 
teacupful of water, and stew them slowly, stirring fre- 
quently, particularly, after they begin to burst. When 
they are thick, like marmalade, pour them into a cullen- 
der, take a pint cup and rub the berries with the bot- 
tom, pressing all the juice and pulp through the cullen- 
der. Stir a pound granulated sugar (or less if you like 
it tart) , into the juice. Put back on the stove and cook 
about five minutes, stirring constantly. Pour into a 
jelly mould and as soon as it jellies, turn it out on a 

glass plate. — M rs. Ed<tar N. Blake. 

French Mayonaise.— The yolks of three hard 
boiled eggs and of two raw ones well mixed with a 



34 

teaspoonful of mustard, either dry or prepared, all 
put into a bowl, into which a small clove of garlic has 
been rubbed; one-half pint of olive oil, added drop at a 
time, stirring constantly with a silver fork or spoon. 
When the mixture becomes jelly like, v/hich will be in 
an hour or more, add salt to taste. A little cayenne 
pepper, vinegar enough to make it the consistency of 
thick cream, and if you choose, two or three table- 
spoonfuls of capers, and the finely chopped whites of 
the hard boiled eggs. All the ingredients should be 

cold. — Mrs. Ira Edd[e,man. 



35 



Poultry and Game. 

The Famous r^resbyterian i hreken 
Pie, — Cut and joint a large chicken, or two fat young 
chickens, cover with cold w^ater and let boil gently until 
tender. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Have 
enough broth to fill the pan you bake in. Thicken the 
gravy with two cooking spoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth 
with a piece of butter, size of an egg. Have ready a 
nice, rich, light buscuit dough. Roll about one half 
inch thick, spread on top of pan, bake until a golden 
brown. Serve from the pan in which it was baked. — 

Ladie.s Aid Society. 

Southern Cliicken.— Prepare a young chick- 
en as for broiling, cut open down the back; dredge with 
salt and pepper, place flat in the baking pan, put a 
slice of bacon in the botton of pan, add just a little 
water to steam, cover pan closely, slip in the oven and 
cook until tender. Prepare a short biscuit dough (use 
butter, rather than lard), roll out thin and cut in strips 
and lay over the chicken, add some of the strips into 
the gravy. Baste oiten and let remain in the oven un- 
pastry is the desired brown. — Mrs a. L. I2<.be.rts 

Squab Pie.— Take the desired number of 
squabs and split open down the back, boil about fifteen 
minutes. Drain off the liquor and cover again with 
hot water, add a few pieces of breakfast bacon, and 
boil until tender. Season with salt and pepper, add 
milk or water to make sufficient gravy; thicken with 
flour. Make a rich crust, roll thin, line a baking pan 
and place the birds in the crust and pour the gravy over 
them. Use strips of the pastry over the top of pan, 
and bake until crust is browned. — Mrs. b. u. Meione. 

Dressing for Stuffing Any Kind of 
Fowl.— In a large frying pan put one heaping table- 
spoonful of equal parts of butter and lard, when hot 



36 

add chopped giblets, which have been previously 
cooked, and one medium sized onion, chopped. After 
frying a few minutes, add half a loaf of bread, cut or 
crumbled, (stale bread preferred). Fry few minutes 
longer, add salt and pepper and sage to taste. Remove 
from Are and add a good pint of fresh oysters. — Mrs. 

Laura Houston. 

Stewed Chicken.— One heaping tablespoon- 
ful lard, one tablespoonful flour, heat to rich brown. 
Put in the jointed chicken, with salt and pepper to 
taste. Cover with hot water and cook until tender. — 

Mrs. Laura Houston. 

Walled Turkey.— Line a greased baking dish 
with cold mashed potato, moistened with beaten egg 
and a little milk; fill in with cold turkey, chopped or 
cut into small pieces, sprinkle with bits of dressing, 
pour over it one cupful turkey gravy, and bake about 
thirty minutes. Serve from the baking dish. — Mrs, 

Ed&ar N. Blake. 

Turkey or Chicken Souffle.— Melt one 
tablespoonful butter and add one tablespoonful flour, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt and a dash of pepper; 
cook until frothy, then add one cupful milk, grad- 
ually; when the sauce bo^'ls add one-fourth cupful 
bread crumbs and cook two minutes; then add one 
cupful cold chicken or turkey, chopped medium 
fine, one teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, one-hali 
teaspoonful onion juice, yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Now lightly fold in the well beaten whites of two eggs. 
Bake in a buttered dish set in a pan of hot water until 
well puffed up and slightly browned— about twenty 
minutes. Serve at once with tomato sauce. — Mrs. 

.Kd?iar M. Blake. 

II ashed Chicken on Toast With 
Poached Es.^S.— Use bits of cold chicken chopped 
medium fine. Heat the meat in sufficient sauce to 
moisten well; use chicken liquor for sauce. This may 
be thickened with a little flour, if desired. Flavor 
with a dash of celery salt. Spread the chicken on 
rounds of toasted bread and place a carefully poached 



egg above the chicken on each sKce. Serve very hot. 
Use quantities sufficient for the number of plates to be 
served. Garnish with sprigs of parsley or bleached 

tops of celery. — Mrs. Edgar N. Blake. 

Roast Turkey, Country Style.- After a 
fine, plump turkey has been nicely dressed wipe it dry, 
both inside and outside; make a dressing of stale bread 
crumbs and mashed potato, about one-third potato and 
two-third bread crumbs; season with salt, pepper, sage 
or onion to taste; fill the turkey with this and sew up 
the openings; pour one pint of hot water in the drip- 
ping pan, and be careful to add more water as it cooks 
away, or the gravy will be spoiled; roast in a hot, 
steady oven until the turkey is done; when done it 
should be a beautiful crisp golden brown; unless the 
covered roasting pan is used frequent basting is neces- 
sary; when done, if the gravy in the pan is not thick 
enough, add a little flour, some seasoning, if necessary, 
and the giblets, which should be boiled and finely 

chopped. — Mrs. Edj^ar N. Blake. 

Spring Ctiicken, Baked. -Split the chick- 
ens up the back and lay the breast side down; sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and dredge with a little flour. 
Pour hot water in pan and baste them well. When be- 
ginning to brown, turn and dredge breast with a little 
flour and baste until tender; then take them from oven, 
rub over with butter, then return to oven for a few 
minutes to allow butter to soak in. Serve hot. This is 
an excellent way to cook yoing ducks, prairie chickens, 
the hind legs and loins of rabbits and squirrels. — Mrs. 

Edjljar N. Blake. 

Pressed Chicken.— Cut up a chicken as for 
frying, boil gently until the meat falls from the bones; 
pick off the meat, chop very fine and season with pep- 
per and salt. Butter a mold and put in the chopped 
chicken. (A very pretty effect may be had by placing 
the light and dark meat in alternate layers, or separat- 
ing the light and dark meat, using two molds and 
serving the slices cut in different shapes). Boil the 
broth down with one tablespoonful of gelatine until 
there is only one cupful; pour it over the chicken. It 
will sink through, forming a jelly around it. Set on ice 



or in a cold place for five or six hours. — Mrs. Ed^ar N. 

BJake. 

Koast Wild Duck. -Parboil the duck for 
one-half hour, adding one tablespoonful salt and one 
chopped onion to the water. Then place duck in bak- 
ing pan, sprinkle with pepper, sage and flour, put 
strips of bacon in breast and baste with hot water and 
butter. Bake until tender. — Mrs F. t. Beckett. 

Quail on Toast.— Spht quail open on back; 
put four slices of breakfast bacon in each frying pan; 
lay the quails in on the breast, covering with enough 
water to cook tender. When they begin to fry, watch 
very closely as it only takes a moment for them to 
brown. Turn and fry a few seconds. If fried too long 
they will be dry. Salt and pepper when nearly done. 
Serve on small slices of buttered toast and garnish with 
parsley. — sin^, a. s. Wi-^cjins. 

Roast QuaiL— To roast quail stuff with plain 
or oyster dressing, as made for chicken or turkey. Tie 
a slice of bacon over the breast and bake twenty or 
thirty mJnutes. Serve on a platter with sprigs of 

parsley. — Mrs. Ed^ar N. Blake. 

To Fry Quail. — Prepare as you would young 
chickens to broil. Split the birds in half and lay in 
cold water, adding a little salt. After a few hours 
drain and wipe and dredge with flour and a little black 
pepper and salt. Have a scotch bowl or granite pan 
nearly full of pure lard. Fry a slice of potato in lard, 
to sweeten. When smoking hot put in a quail and let 
cook until it begins to rise. Turn and let cook about 
five minutes, or until well done. Do not put in enough 
birds at any one time to cool the lard. Serve hot. — 

Mrs. E L. I^oberts. 



39 



Frencf^ 'romafo Salad.— Remove the skins 
from smooth, ripe tomatoes, halve and arrange care- 
fully on a platter or glass dish, almost covered with 
chopped ice. Leave in a sauce dish a dressing made of one- 
half cupful light brown sugar, one cupful vinegar, with 
salt and pepper to taste. As each plate of the tomato 
is served, pour some dressing over, as the tomato looses 
its flavor if the dressing remains on any time. — iMr?^. i>. 

B Wyath 

Shrimp SatacL— One can shrimps, one head 
celery (or one cupful of chopped cabbage), four hard 
boiled eggs, one cupful English walnut meats, juice of 
two lemons. If cabbage is used, add one teaspoonful 
celery seed. Cut each shrimp in two or three pieces; 
pour lemon juice over the shrimp and let stand while 
preparing the following. Chop the celery, nut meats 
and eggs; then prepare a salad dressing (see my recipe). 
Set all where it will chill, and when ready to serve, toss 
all together with a fork, mix salad with half the dress- 
ing, using the remaining half to pour over the salad. 
Serve at once on crisp lettuce leaves; cabbage cups or 

garnish with parsley. — Mrs. Ed^ar N. Blake. 

Salmon Salad. -One can salmon, one-half 
cup chopped celery, one-half cup chopped sour pickles, 
two chopped eggs, hard boiled. Mix with the following 
salad dressing and slice the two eggs on top. Use cel- 
ery seed when celery is not in season. 

Marie Salad Dressing.— One cup sour cream, 
yolks of four eggs. Cook this in one pan; in another 
pan mix one-half cup vinegar, salt and pepper to sea- 
son, two tablespoons sugar, one level tablespoon flour, 
one teaspoon celery seed. Cook until it thickens, then 
add to the cream and eggs. Cook until the consistency 

of thick cream. — Mrs W. C. Dannenber^. 

Chicken Salad.— One chicken, one-half cup 
chopped' olives, one-fourth pound each of chopped wal- 



40 

nuts and almonds, four bunches of celery cut in small 
pieces. 

Use the following dressing: Beat yolks of three 
eggs, add one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful mixed mustard, a pinch of red pepper, one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls sugar, four teaspoonfuls melted 
butter, one cupful of cream and one-half cupful warm 
vinegar. Cook to the consistency of thick cream, then 
pour over the beaten whites of three eggs, stirring con- 
stantly, to insure smoothness. — Miss Neil A. ShuII, Mor- 
rJnonvFik^, lit. 

Mock (thicken Salad.— Two pounds of 
veal, stewed over a slow fire until perfectly ten- 
der, then minced fine. Add one cupful chopped 
English walnuts, one cupful chopped celery, juice of 
one lemon, two hard boiled eggs, chopped. Marinate 
with your favorite salad dressing or one-half cupful 
sour cream. It is very smart garnished with balls of 
whipped cream with a stuffed pimento in the center of 
each. (I add a dash of cayenne pepper to all my salads. ) 

— Mrs, M. II. Stallin^iS 

Oyster Sciiad. — One large can cove oysters, 
one pint of fresh oysters. Boil the latter in their liquid 
and cool. Mix the oysters and cut in small pieces with 
the scissors (prevents oysters becoming mushy) . Sea- 
son with pepper and salt and a little cayenne. One-half 
cupful chopped cucumber pickles, three hard boiled 
eggs, one-fourth cupful chopped olives. Mix all hghtly 
v/ith mayonaise dressing and the juice of a lemon. 
Place on inner lettuce leaves on individual plates. 
Strips of lemon used as a garnish add to the appearance 
and flavor of this salad. — Mrs. n. ii. sia^iin^s 

Mashed Potato Salad.— Take one quart 
of potatoes mashed fine, one-third or one-half cupful 
vinegar (according to its strengh). Bring the vinegar 
to a boil, add two well beaten eggs, into which has been 
stirred two- thirds cupful sweet cream. Cut two medium 
sized onions fine and stir into the potatoes before you 
add the vinegar, etc. For decoration boil one egg hard 

and shce over the top. — Mrs. N. K. Be.ardslee. 



41 

Beet Salad.— One quart of chopped beets 
(cooked), one quart chopped cabbage, one and one-half 
cupfuls sugar, one tablespoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
chopped red peppers, one-half cupful grated horse rad- 
ish. Cover with cold vinegar. — Mrs. i. d. nanin^. 

Waldorf Salad — One cupful chopped apples, 
one cupful chopped celery, one cupful nut meats; one cup- 
ful seeded malaga grapes, one cupful chopped oranges. 
Thoroughly mix with mayonaise dressing. Send to 

table very cold. — Mrs. T. L. O'Bryan. 

Chicken Salad.— Use equal parts of chopped 
English walnuts, malaga grapes, split in halves and 
seeded; celery and chicken (boiled until tender), chopped 
fine. Mix with mayonaise dressing, to which whipped 
cream has been added. Serve on lettuce leaves. — Miss 

Dora Dodson, Nevada, Mo. 

Chicken Salad.— Boil one chicken until tender 
and chop very fine one head of celery, four hard boiled 
eggs, one cupful English walnuts, all chopped fine. 

Dressing: Separate two eggs and beat; add three 
tablespoonf uls of vinegar, one teaspoonful sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful mus- 
tard, three tablespoonfuls of cream, butter the size of 
an egg, pepper to taste, boil to the consistency of cus- 
tard and mix with the salad. — Mrs. L. i>. Baker. 

Nut Salad. — Chop separately one cupful cab- 
bage, one cupful of nuts, one half cupful of celery, three- 
fourth cupful of apples, four tablespoonfuls pickles or 
olives, the whites of two hard boiled eggs. Thoroughly 
mix all together with mayonasie dressing. — Mrs. r. L. 

O'Bryan. 

Tomato Salad. — C h o o s e uniform sized ripe 
tomatoes, pour boiling water over, drain at once, cover 
with cold water, remove the skins and set on ice. Make 
a filling of finely chopped cucumbers and one third as 
much chopped green peppers. Nuts may be added if 
desired. When it is nearly time to serve cut a slice 
from the stem end, carefully take out the seeds, drain 
out the juice, fill half full of prepared cucumber, place 
on a lettuce leaf, and fill with whipped cream salad 

dressing. — Mrs. W. a BriSigs. 



42 

Russian Salad. — Heat one pint of sifted can- 
ned tomatoes, season with salt and pepper and a dash 
of cayenne, also one teaspoonf ul Worcester sauce, a few 
drops of onion juce and the juice of one lemon. Make 
this stiff with gelatine, it will take probably one ounce. 
When this is dessolved, pour into cups and set on ice to 
harden. When these are firm and ready to be served 
remove a piece from the center and fill with chopped 
olives and one or two salted almonds on top. Serve 
on lettuce leaf with mayonaise dressing. — Mrs Frank 

llardv 

V-^eai Salad. — Boil veal until tender and chop 
fine. Beat seperately the yolks and white of four eggs, 
stir a teaspoonful of olive oil into the yolks of the eggs. 
Mix together in a deep earthern vessel. Stew down as 
thick as batter. When cold add a cup of sweet cream. 
Stir well and pour over chopped veal. — Mrs. Frank 

Hardy. 

E§§ Salad. — Boil six eggs hard, when cool 
chop the whites, cut the yolks fine. Use as much chop- 
ped celery or lettuce as eggs. Chop olives or pickles or 
Id 1 h and mix all together with mayonaise dressing. 
Season with salt and pepper. Chop some of the whites 
finer and sprinkle on top. Garnish the dish with 
celery tops, lettuce or sprigs of parsley. — Mrs. fiarrie 

B I'raugh, BiDomington, (il. 

Beet Salad, — Peel and chill a dozen tomatoes. 
Scoop out the center, leaving the shell unbroken. Fill 
with salad, made with the portions of the to- 
matoes scooped out and six medium sized beets, 
cooked until tender and chopped. Toss together with a 
Vght mayonaise dressing and serve. A little finely 
shredded cabbage and a cup of English walnuts, may 
be added if desired. — Mrs. s. b. Laune 

Celery Srilad. -Make a dressing with two 
eggs beaten until very light, four tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Add a piece of bttuer the size of a walnut. Cook 
this mixture in a double boiler, stirring until the sauce 
has thickened. Then add half a teaspoonful each of dry 
mustard, salt and sugar, and a dash of cayenne pep- 
per. Remove from the fire and stir until cold. Just 



43 

before using add to this sauce a quantity of whipped 
cream equal to its own measure. Cut the white stalks 
of celery in small pieces, dust lightly with salt, and 
pour over the dressing. Garnish with the white tops 
of the celery and serve immediately. — Mrs, a. m. 

Appelget. 

Potato Salad.— Boil one-half dozen Irish 
potates. When done, peel while warm and cut into 
rather thin slices. Slice quite thin one or two white 
onions, according to size. Prepare a salad dressing (see 
my recipe) . Arrange in salad dish a layer of the potato 
then a thin layer of onions, put over this enough of the 
dressidg to cover, (use dressing before it cools) , con- 
tinue potato, onion and daessing until all is used. If 
served on individual dishes garnish with parsley or 
serve on lettuce leaves. If celery flavor is liked use a 
few tender stocks chopped fine for one layer— or add 
one teaspoonful celery seed to the dressing. — Mrs. Edgar 

N. Blake. 



44 



Sour Cream Salad Drcssiivg. 

Place a tablespoonfulof sugar, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a teaspoonful of celery salt one-eighth of a 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper in a bowl and mix; then 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and three table- 
spoonsful of vinegar, and when thoroughly blended 
stir in gradually, beating, rapidly a cup of sour cream 
and set on ice until needed. — Mrs. w. i>. lownsend, 

Qilette, Wvo. 

Salad Dressing.— Four tablespoonfuls 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, seven tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, small teapoonful salt, small teaspoonful 
mustard, yolks of four eggs. Mix dry ingredients, stir 
in butter and eggs and beat untilsmooth. Add vinegar 
and stir constantly while cooking. Thin wiith milk or 
cream. I often make the mayonaise thinner with more 
vinegar or water and leave out the milk or craem when 

I cannot get them. — Mrs. N. B. Ncveomb, TanS{ier, Okla. 

Salad Dressing.— Dishes needed are one 
bowl, a double boiler or two pans. In a pan put 
four tablespoonfuls butter; heat. When hot stir 
in one tablespoonful flour Do not let it brown. 
Then set the pan in to another of hot water, now 
add one cupful of milk. While this of coming to a 
boil prepare the following: Beat together in a bowl, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful salt, one teapoonful mustard, 
a pinch of pepper and one-half cupful vinegar. Stir 
this into the boiling milk and flour, cook until thick as 
soft custard. This makes a little over one-half pint. 
If a richer dressing is desired I add one-half pint whip- 
ped cream just before serving. — Mrs. Edgar. N. Biake. 

Salad Dressing.— Three eggs, one cup- 
ful sour cream, one-half cupful vinegar, (diluted if 
strong), two level tablespoonfuls sugar, one-half table- 
poontul mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, one table- 



45 

spoonful white pepper, butter the size of a walnut. 
Beat eggs till very light, add cream and then other in- 
gredients and beat again. Place on the stove in a 
double boiler and cook until shghtly thickened stirring 
constantly to keep smooth. Just before removing from 
the stove add butter. If kept on ice or in a cool place, 
this dressing will keep for a month. — Mrs. c. K. Luee. 

Salad Drf^ssing.— (Without milk or cream) 

One tablespoonful mustard, two tablespoonsful sugar, 
three eggs or yolk of six, one cupful vinegar, teaspoon- 
ful salt. Boil until thick, add tablespoonful of butter 

when cool. — Mrs. N, K. Beardslee. 

Salad Dressing.— n e large spoonful but- 
ter, three large spoonfuls sugar, one-half tea-spoonful 
mustard, one- half teaspoonful pepper, and same of salt. 
Cream all together, add yolks of six eggs and one cup of 
milk. Put on the stove in a pan of boiling water. Pour 
in slowly one cup of vinegar, stirring all the time it is 
cooking, and as soon as it begins to thicken, remove 
from the fire. — Mrs. L. n. Patton. 

Simple Salad Dressing.— Boil one egg hard, 
let cool, take yolk, dissolve in one-half cupful of vinegar, 
two tablespoonsful of sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and butter the 
size of an egg. Let boil, pour over salad and cool— Mrs. 

Wm. A. Pyne. 



46 



Entrees. 

Creamed Chicken.— Cook one large chicken 
and let cool. Then cut in small pieces into a baking- 
dish. Put one quart of cream on stove and let come to 
almost boiling. Mix three tablespoonfuls flour into five 
of milk, stir this into the cream when almost boiling, 
season with pepper and salt. Take one can mushroons, 
drain off the liquor, pour scalding water over them, let 
stand a minute or two, then take them out and mix 
well with the chicken. Then pour over the hot cream, 
mix it well and have it quite thin. Sprinkle the top 
with rolled crackers, put in a moderate oven and bake 

thirty mintues. — Mrs. Charles O. Warren. 

Hot Tama fes,— Three pounds of meat (mixed 
beef and pork) . Make a good thick mush out of the 
water the meat was boiled in, making plenty for it takes 
a good deal. Boil your shucks until they are nice and 
white, cutting the ends off so they won't be too long, 
grease the shucks with butter, then roll, put the mush 
first then the meat in the mush, roll in the shucks and 
steam about two hours. Salt the meat to taste and 
season with lots of red pepper. Some like onion, if so 
boil an onion with the meat. The meat must a 1 1 
be well ground. This will make four dozen. — 

Man Eiizaboth Tayior, Fore&i City, Ark. 

Creamed Dried Beef . -o n e tablespoonful 
butter, one tablespoonful flour, one cupful milk, one 
cupful dried beef chopped fine. Rub flour in melted 
butter, add milk, and when thick add chopped beef. — 

Mrs. S S. Waiter house. 

IVleat Loaf. — Two pounds beef, one pound 
pork, and ten crackers, run all through a meat chopper. 
Three eg^s well beaten, two teaspoonfuls salt, one tea- 
spoonful black or white pepper, and_ two dashes of 
cayenne, one-half cupful tomato juice, mix all thoroughly 



47 

and make into a loaf just the length of the baking pan. 
Fill each side half full of hot water, baste often, adding 
more hot water if it cooks dry. Dredge a little flour all 
over the top of loaf. Bake two hours. Remove the 
loaf carefully from the pan to a hot platter and garnish 
with parsley. Put in the pan enough hot water to 
make the desired amount of gravy and thicken with 
flour rubbed smooth in a little milk, salt and pepper to 
taste. Slice the roll and serve with a sprig of parsley 

and a bit of the gravey. — Mrs. Edgar N. Blake. 

Ve^I Loaf.— Three pounds of minced veal; 
three eggs well beaten; one level tablespoonful of pep- 
per; one of salt; four rolled crackers; butter the size of 
an egg. Mix these together and make into a loaf 
Roast and baste like other meats. — Mrs. l. Charvoz. 

French Liver.— Wash calf's liver and put in a 
stew pan with the following; one large onion chopped 
fine; two bay leaves; one blade of mace; one half tea- 
spoonful black pepper; six whole cloves; one teaspoon- 
f ul salt ; one teaspoonf ul sugar ; one pint hot water. Cook 
gently for three hours. When done, cut in thin slices 
and put on a meat dish. Pour over the ligour from the 
stew pan. Stand aside over night. Next day pound 
the liver to a paste; add one half cup melted butter and 
the liquor strained, pack in a small crock and set in a 
cool place, till firm Cut in thin slices and serve as a 
luncheon dish. — m. f>. Fench. 

Chickon Tcimalos — Boil together one chick- 
en and one pound of lean pork; when very tender chop 
fine and add lots jf chili pepper; a little camenes seed, 
and salt to taste. Make a mush of corn meal and the 
broth from the meat. Scald your shucks, dry and 
spread them with the mush, roll up and steam two 
hours. 

Philadelphia Scrapple. -Use bits of cold 
fowl or any kind of cold meat, or two or three kinds to- 
gether; run this through a meat chopper, put it in a 
frying pan with water to cover, season well with pep- 
per and salt and butter. When it boils thicken it with 
corn meal, stirred in carefully like mush, and about as 



48 
thick. Cook about thirty minutes. Pour into a dish to 

mold. SHce and fry. — Mrs. N. K. Beardslee. 

Oyster Sliort Cake.— Cook the oysters 
in a thick cream sauce as for patties. 
Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out in sheets 
and after it is in the pan, mark out in diamond 
shapes with a sharp knife. When baked, break the 
pieces apart, split and butter and fill with the creamed 

oysters. — Mrs E. N. Blake. 

O^'ster Croquets.— One pint oysters chopped 
fine; one pint of cooked veal or beef, chopped fine; two 
heaping tablespoonsful butter; six teaspoonsful bread 
crumbs; yolk of four eggs or two whole eggs; soak the 
crumbs in the oyster liquor, then mix all ingredients 
and shape. Dip in eggs and crumbs and fry.— Mrs, 

John IJaynor. 

Cannelon of Beef.— One pound of uncooked 
beef chopped fine: yolk of one egg; one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of butter; two table- 
spoonsful bread crumbs; one teaspoonf ul of lemon juice; 
one each of salt and pepper; two onions chopped fine. 
Mix ingredients together and form in a roll about six 
inches long. Place in a baking pan and bake in a quick 
oven, about thirty mintues. Baste often with one-fourth 
cup butter melted in one cup boiling water.— Belle 

Frenoli- 

Bouclons.— Two cups chopped meat, a small 
piece of onion chopped, butter size of an egg; salt, pep- 
per and nutmeg to taste; two eggs; four tablespoonsful 
cream; one-half cupful bread or cracker crumbs. Put 
mixture in boudon cups or gem cups, set in a dripping 
pan of boiling water. Put in the oven and cook twenty 
or thirty minutes. Serve with thin gravy.— Mrs. John 

Q. i > nor. 

Toiv^^ue with Tomato Sauce.— Boil the 
tongue until tender. When cold skin and slice. Dip 
each slice in beaten egg , then into bread crombs and 
and fry in hot butter until a lirrht brown; arrange 
slices on hot platter and pour around the following sauce: 

Sauce— One pint toniato juice, one slice of onion 



49 

or one teaspoonful onion juice, one bay leaf, cooked to- 
gether for fifteen minutes; strain and thicken with two 
tablespoonsf ul flour and two teaspoonful butter rub- 
bed together. Salt and pepper to taste. This sauce is 
also good with sliced cold boiled tongue. — Mrs. Edgar 
M. Blake. 

Salmon Croquettes.— Take one can of sal- 
mon, remove all bone, mash smooth, salt and pepper, 
two eggs; grate the bread crumbs till you have half as 
much as salmon. Mix thoroughly. Make in either 
round or long balls, dip in egg, then in crumbs and fry 

in hot lard. — Mrs. Lulhe.r 11. Patton. 

Chicken troquoite.— To one cold boiled 
chicken, chopped fine, take a pint of sweet milk and 
when boiling hot add two larg e tablespoonsf ul of flour, 
moistened with a little cold milk. Add butter the size 
of an egg and plenty of salt and pepper. Mix the dres- 
sing and chicken, roll out in cakes, dip in egg, roll 
in cracker crumbs and drop in a kettle of hot lard. Let 
chicken and dressing get cold before making into cakes. 

-Mrs. M. O. Murphy. 

Salmon Croquettes.— To one-half can of red 
salmon, add one teacupf ul of mashed Irish potatoes, 
seasoned, mixing thoroughly. Beat three eggs sep- 
arately and add to salmon, seasoning all, highly with 
butter, pepper and salt and a pinch of cayenne. 
Form into balls or oblongs, dip into egg and then in 
cracker meal and fry in a kettle of boiling lard.— 

Mrs. n. H. Stallln!^. 

Shreded Wheat Oyster, Meat or Vege- 
table Patties.— Cut oblong cavity in top of biscuit, 
remove top carefully and all inside shreds, forming a 
shell. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, put small pieces 
of butter in bottom, and fill the shell with drained, 
picked and washed oysters, season with additional salt 
and pepper. Replace top of biscuit over oysters, then 
bits of butter on top. Place in a covered pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Pour oyster liquor or cream 
sauce over it. Shell fish, vegetables, or meats may 
also be used. 



50 

Chicken in liamekins— Cut cold chicken in 
small dice; add an equal quantity of cold boiled rice or 
chicken dressing, season with minced parsley, a dash of 
cayenne ai.d chicken gravy or butter. Place in rame- 
knis and cover with bread crumbs browned in butter. 
Heat in oven in pan of water. — Mrs. m. c. lioss, 
Wichita, Kas. 

Poached Onrons.—Wash, peal and slice; put 
them on and boil ten minutes; pour off this water and 
add more boiling water; boil until tender; drain off ail 
the water; season with pepper, salt, butter and plenty 
ot cream or milk. If onions are small I leave them 

whole. — Mrs. Edftar ^'. Blake. 

Rice Frilfers — One cupful of rice, two cups- 
ful m^lk boiled till soft and milk absorbed then add 
yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonsful sugar, two table- 
spoonsful butter. When cold add the whites of the 
eggs whipped to stiff froth. Drop in spoonsful in hot 
lard fry, to a deep buff color. Serve with maple sugar 

or maple syrup. — Mrs. E. M. Brown, jersey vllle, hi. 

Chicken CutSets.— Boil chicken until tender; 
pick from bones and run through fine blade of meat 
chopper. Season with celery, chopped fine, a dash of 
cayenne, and salt to taste. Make a little cream gravy 
of butter, flour, milk and some of the chicken broth; 
mix this with the other ingredients; then form in cutlet 
shape, on chicken leg bones, dip in beaten eggs, then 
in bread crumbs and fry to a golden brown, in deep hot 

fat. — M rs. R. a I p h W o r k m a o 

Tomato Aspic Jelfy.— One can tomatoes; one 
box Knox's gelatine; one tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce; a few drops, according to taste, of Tobasco sauce, 
one-half teaspoonful onion juice. Put the tomatoes 
through a collander, also strain through a jelly bag, 
then set them on stove and bring quickly to boiling 
point, add the gelatine, that has been put to soak in a 
little cold water; and stir in the seasonings. Pour into 
a mold and set in cool place to stiffen. Use as a garnish 
for salads or entrees. — Mrs. a. Turnbuij 



51 



Sandwiches. 

The bread used for sandwiches should be a day old, 
the better the bread the better the sandwich; avoid 
bread that is full of large holes, as in that case too 
much butter will be used and the sandwich become 
greasy. The bread may be white, brown, whole wheat, 
or rye, but the filling must accord with its binding. 
The bread should be sliced thin, evenly cut and lightly 
buttered; the edges should be free from butter 
and filling For picnics the crust should be left on, 
since many persons count it the best part of the loaf; 
but for luncheons the crusts should be trimmed. The 
sandwich is very attractive when the bread ]s 
cut in fanciful shapes and tied with ribbons, carrying 
the color scheme of the decorations. 

Any cold meat may be run through the meat 
chopper (fine blade) and made appetizing by appropri- 
ate seasonings. Almost any sort of a sandwich filling 
is improved by adding a light season of mayonnaise, or 
salad dressing. The heavier meat and vegetable sand- 
wiches may be served in place of meat or salad at in- 
formal luncheons. The following recipes for sand- 
wiches are the result of several years collecting. Every 

one is excellent. — Mrs. Ed^arN. Blake. 

Cold Lamb 5afulwiches.— Thin slices of the 
meat, nicely salted, between thin sHces of bread— are 
appetizing for a picnic luncheon, and a welcome change 
from ham sandwiches. A bit of current jelly will make 
them more popular. 

Chicken and Nut Sandwiches.— chop fine 
the white meat of a cooked chicken and pound to a 
paste, and season with salt, paprika, oil and lemon 
juice and spread upon thin slices of bread; spread 
other slices of bread with butter and press into these 
english walnuts, pecan nuts or almonds blanched and 
sliced very thin; press corresponding pieces together. 

Fish Sandwiches. -For fish sandwich any 
cold fish may be freed from bones, mashed to a paste 



52 

and seasoned with salt, pepper, mayonnaise and chopped 
pickle. Whole wheat bread is best for the fish filling. 

Sardine Sandwiches.— Drain French sar- 
dines from their oil; remove skin, tail and bones, chop 
or mash them; add sufficient melted, perfectly fresh 
butter to spread nicely and season with plenty of lemon 
juice. Half their quantity of chopped olive meat may 
be added to the sardines if desired; spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread or crackers. 

Salmon and Lettuce Sandwiches- 
Cook one pound of salmon in a sauce-pan with a slice of 
onion, a root of celery, one-half teaspoonful pepper 
corns, salt, one tablespoonful lemon juice and water 
sufficient to cover. Cook very gently fifteen minutes; 
drain, remove skin and bones and pound fish to a paste; 
add one-half cupful thick cream, season highly with 
salt and paprika and two tablespoonsful lemon juice, a 
slight grating of the rind. Spread on thin slices of 
buttered bread cutout in strips three inches Ion": by one 
and one-fourth inches wide, press edges together and 
serve on plate with doily, piled log cabin fashion. 

Hani Sandwiches.— Make a mayonnaise 
dressing, stir in minced ham until the desired consist- 
ency to spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 
Or use slices of cold boiled ham, spread with mayonnaise. 

Club Sandwiches.— Have ready, for each 
plate to be served two triangular pieces of bread, toast- 
ed to perfection, spread with salad dressing; cover one 
of these with crisp lettuce, lay a thin slice of cold chick- 
en or turkey (white meat) upon the lettuce; over 
this arrange a thin slice of broiled breakfast bacon, 
then lettuce and cover with the othel* piece of toast. 
Trim neatly, arrange on a plate, and garnish with heart 
leaves of lettuce dipped in salad dressing and crisp ice 
cold slices of cucumber. 

liussian Sandwiches.— Rub to a paste one 
and one-half rolls Neufchatel cheese, to this add one- 
half cupful chopped pecans and the finely chopped meat 



53 

of twelve olives, season with salt and cayenne to taste, 
moisten mixture with mayonnaise dressing to the con- 
sistency to spread between salted wafers. Press theai 
firmly tcgether. 

Hot Cheese Sandwiches.— slice bread in 
thin slices, cut in circles with small biscuit cutter, grate a 
thin layer of cheese over each lightly buttered circle, 
season with a dash of cayenne; place in oven to toast. 
Press slices together and serve immediately. 

( hecse. S a n d W i C h e S.— Make a richly 
seasoned smear case, spread between buttered wafers 
or thin slices of bread. Serve at once if bread is used. 

Cut slices of rye or brown bread without removing 
the crusts. Rub a half pint of cottage cheese to a 
smooth paste with a little melted butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and two tablespoonsful of thick cr* am, 
and put the mixture between the buttered slices, This 
may be varied and improved by using a lettuce leaf 
with each cream cheese filling. Gingerbread is also 
nice with a filling of cream cheese and nuts. 

E^^^and Watercress Sandwfclu s.— Cut 
some thin slices of bread and butter, and cover them 
evenly with fresh watercress, sprinklirg with a little 
salt and some chopped pickles or a very little grated 
onion. Now spread them thickly with hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs which have been rubbed through a sieve, place 
another piece of bread on the top and press together. 

Scrambled eggs left from breakfast or slices of 
cold boiled eggs may be used for filling. They are im- 
proved by a light sprinkling of mayonnaise mixed with 
chopped pickle or olives. 

Gingerbread is sure to find favor with every member 
of an outing party. Try buttering two slices and plac- 
ing between them a mixture of chopped raisins and pre- 
served gin'^er syrup. Orange marmalade is also deli- 
cious for the purpose. 

^'ast^!r!mm Sandwiches.— The flowers or 
leaves are gathered fresh from the garden drop them 



54 

into ice water to crisp. Cut the bread in thin slices 
and butter it. Place a tirn layer of the yellow petals 
and one leaf between the slices. No seasoning is re- 
quired aside from a light sprinkling of salt, as the nas- 
turtinm has a delightfully distinctive flavor of its own, 
but it is best to add a little mayonnaise. 

T^m-^iifo Sandwiches — Cut whole wheat 
bread into circular slices, using a cake cutter for the 
purpose. Butter, lay on it a round of tomato of the 
same size, sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little 
grated cheese and press the rounds together. 

Cucumbcs' Sandwiches. —The cucumber is 
peeled and sliced and put in ice water to crisp. They 
are then drained and laid on a thin slice': of buttered 
whole wheat or white bread, a very little thick mayon- 
naise is put on and the whole covered in the usual way 
with another slice of bread and pressed down well. . 

Onion S'indwsches. -Place a crisp slice of 
onion between buttered salted crackers. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. This will be enjoyed at a picnic. 

Nut ^^ar^dwichcs.— Are always timely, and a 
jar of peanut butter kept on tap will prove useful many 
times. The easiest way to prepare the nuts is to run 
them through the meat chopper. Then they may be 
moistened with cream, melted butter or mayonnaise. 
A few chopped dates or figs can be added to the nuts if 
desired. 

Fruit I'oast S^mdwiches.— Use bread not 
more than a day old, toast it evenly to a golden brown, 
butter while hot; place between the slices, preserved 
cherries, orange marmalade, or fresh fruit crushed with 
sugar to taste. Serve while toast is hot. This is very 
appetizing for invalids. 



55. 



Vegetables. 

Kscalled Cabbngo.-Shave cabbage fine on 
a slaw cutter and put a layer in the bottom of a baking 
dish. Dust with pepper and salt to suit taste. Si)i inkle 
a rather thick layer of cracker ciumbs and small lumps 
of butter, and then another layer of cabbage and so on 
until pan is nearly full. Fill with sweet milk and bake 

slowly until done. — Mrs. Ida Dohrer. 

Tomatoes Muffed \U h Me. J —Cut off 
tops of six medium sized tomatoes. Scoop cut the pulps. 
Fill with bits of cold meat, beef or ham, two crackers, 
one small onion, salt and pepper to taste. I!i,n it all 
through the meat chopper, add lun p of butter size of a 
walnut, moisten with two tablespoonsful water. 
Sprinkle with cracker crum.bs and bake till tomatoes 
are done. — Mr*. N. s. Hudson. 

Bird's ^cs\ Potatoes.— Select good, sound 
Irish potatoes as nearly the samiC size as possible Put 
them in the oven and bake thoroughly, being cai eiul 
that they are baked evenly all around. When done take 
from oven and remove all of the inside. Put same in 
your mixing bowl, and to it add, salt, pepper and butter 
or (a little ci earn.) When his has Ltcr; Ecasdcd to 
taste, fill each potato Fkin £gain v. ith Ihedicssed ptli.to 
and serve vuy hot. The potato c£,n Lc cut fun the 
end or a small piece taken from the side. — si s. i>. u. 

Wyult 

Po-ato CroqU(^!tes. -Season cold m.ashed 
potatoes with pepper, salt and nutmeg, a little grated 
onion. Beat to a cream with a tablespoonful of melted 
butter to every cupful of potatoes Bind with two cr 
three well beaten eggs. Roll into oval balls, dip in 
beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs. Fi y in hot laid 
and serve at once. — Mrs. n. k. Li.:.jtv!.si.-... , 

Creamed Caul flower -Break apart one 
large head of cauliflower, let stard one hour in strong 
salt water until tender. Place in a vegetable dish and 



56. 

cover with the following sauce. Dissolve one table- 
spoonful flour in one-half pint of milk, (add a little milk 
at a time and stir to a smooth paste. ) Add butter the 
size of an egg, a pinch, each, of salt and pepper, and 

cook until thick. — .V!r>. vV. D. Tuvnsen.l, Oillelte, Wyo. 

Sw<iet Potato Croquettes.— To two cups- 

f ul hot riced or mashed sweet potatoes add three table- 
spoonsful batter, one-half teaspoonful salt, few grains 
pepper and one beaten e^g. Shape, roll in flour, egg 
and crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. If the potatoes 
are very dry it will be necessary to moisten with small 
amount of milk. This makes an excellent garnish for 

pork roast. — Mrs. Ofio 5faHings. 

Prie<I l^?^^pIant.-For fried eggplant cut the 
vegetable in slices about half and inch thick and pare. 
Sprinkle the slices with salt and pile them one upon the 
other, put a plate with a weight on top the slices. Let 
them rest for an hour, then remove weight and plate. 
Add one tablespoonful water, half tablespoonful salt 
and half a teaspoonful pepper to an egg. Beat well 
then dip the slices of eggplant in egg then in dried 
bread crumbs. Spread on dish for twenty or more 
minutes. Fry till brown, (in deep fat.) — Mrs. iienry 

Colli Slcxw.— To one half gallon well sliced cab- 
bage, take one well beaten egg, one-half teaspoonful 
Salt, one teapoonful of sugar, lump of butter the size 
of a walnut Pat all into one pint of vinegar, not tj 
sti'o.i/, aii let con3 to a boil; then add the cabbage, 
stirring all the time, till thoroughly heated. Let cool 
before using. More vinegar and sugar may be added 
to suit the tast. — Mrs <:. w. Wi.ite. 

l>oLilo('.ft and Clietisc— Six Irish potatoes 
boiled uutil mealy. Wash them as smooth as possible, 
adding two tablespoonsful of butter, salt and pepper 
t ) taste. Enough of hot milk to make them quite soft. 
Beat into this one-half cupiul grated cheese. Put in 
baking dish and grate a thin layer of cheese over the 
top. Set in the oven until the cheese toasts and serve 

at once. — Mr.s. tdcjer N. BiaLo 



67- 

!^tewe<:l Green Beans.-One heaping table- 
spoonful lard in a good sized stew kettle, add a level 
teaspoonful flour and let brown add beans and let fry 
twenty or twenty-five minutes longer, cover with hot 
water and season with black pepper and salt. Cook 

about an hour or until tender. — Mrs. Laura Houston. 

A Good Way to Use Cold Mashed Po= 

tatoes — Two cups mashed potatoes, one-half cup 
milk, butter size of a walnut, two eggs, well beaten 
and two tablespoonsful flour. Beat the mixture until 
light, put in a baking dish, and bake a golden brown. 

— iMr.H. W.D . Townsend, Gillette, Wyo. 

Baked Tomatoes.— Take one dozen ripe to- 
matoes, cut out the stem end; with a teaspoon take out 
the meat, being careful not to break the tomato. Chop 
one cup of cabbage and one medium sized onion fine; 
add one-half cup bread crumbs to the tomato, mix all 
together. Season with butter, salt and pepper. Set the 
tomatoes in a pan, the size, to hold without falling apart; 
fill with the mixture, bake one hour in a moderate oven. 
Garnish with Darsley or mayonnaise dressing. — Mrs. a. 

E Blake, OiMeffe, Wyo. 

Escalloped Onions.— Slice onions, put in a 
pan with salt, pappar and butter. Cover with hot wa- 
ter and bake an hour or until tender. — Mrs, l. >\j. Webb 

<]oiUiiibu'i, (>. 

Green l>eppers and Tomatoes.— Equal 

parts of the inside of the green peppers and fresh to- 
matoes. Or enough of the tomatoes to fill the pepper 
shells. Season with celery salt and mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve Cold. — Mrs. Ka^ar w. Biake. 

iVIciccaroni arsd Tomato Sauce.— Put 

maccaroni into boiling water, (salted,) and boil twenty 
minutes. Do not cover. Drain into a colander, dash 
some cold v/ater onto it and let it drain, then put it into 
a hot dish and pour the following tomato sauce over it. 



58 

Sauce. — One quart can of tomatoes, put into a 
stew pan, adding one slice of onion and two cloves and 
a little pepper and salt. Boil about twenty minutes, 
then stra'n through a cola'ider. Melt in another pan 
a heaping tablespoonful of but.er, sprinkle in a table- 
spoonful flour (take pan from fire as soon as butter 
melts, ) stir smooth and then stir in the strained toma- 
toes, put back on the fire and let come to boil. — m rs. 

Se.ott S, Wallerhouse. 

Baktid Ciibbage with GraJed Cheese.— 

Boil a firm white cabbage for fifteen minutes in salted 
water. Then change the water for more boiling water 
and boil until tender, cool and chop fine. Butter a bak- 
iuT dish and put in the chopped cabbage. Make a sauce 
by putting one tablespoonful butter in a pan and when 
it bubbles up well add one tablespoonful flour; add half 
a pint of stock and half pint boiling water. Mix well 
with it four tablespoonsf ul grated cheese. Season with 
salt and pepper. Stir until smooth. Pour this over 
the cabbage, sprinkle rolled crackers over it with lumps 
of butter and place in a hot oven for ten minutes. — 

Mrs II. B tie.n-ilev. 

Baked Parsnips.— Parboil until nearly done, 
then put into a dripping pan with a roast of either beef 
or pork and finish cooking. Sweet potatoes are deli- 
cious, cooked in the same manner. —Mary liookt^, Jer- 
seyville, Hi. 

Boston Baked Beans.-One pint of beans 
soaked over night. One-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda, one-fourth teaspoonful dry 
mustard, two tablespoonsful molasses, A good sized 
piece of pickled pork. Bake three hours. — Mrs. i>. b. 

B«i.ty, ;>t. LouJft, iMo, 

Green Peppers.-Use peppers of uniform 
size, cut a piece off the stem end, or cut them in two 
lengthwise and remove the seeds and partitions. Put 
then in boiling water for five minutes to parboil; fill 
each one with a stuffing made of equal parts of soften- 



59 

ed bread crumbs and minced meat, cold chicken or veal 
well seasoned with salt, butter and a few drops of onion 
juice. Place them in a baking dish with water, or stock 
is better, half an inch deep, and bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Remove them carefully to an- 
other dish and serve hot. They may be served v/ith a 

brown sauce. — Mrs. Edgar H. i3Iake, 

Potato Puffers.— One-half pint cold mashed 
potatoes; one egg, one-half cupful flour, one- half tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Pinch of salt. Mix into soft 
dough and roll into small fingers. Fry like doughnuts. 

—Mrs. H. N. Wyeoff, Jerseyville, III. 

Mock Oysters.— Three grated parsnips, three 
eg'^s, one teaspoonf ul of salt, one teacupful sweet cream, 
three tablespoonsful of flour (or perhaps a little more,) 

cook as oyster cakes.— Mrs. Ellen PauUin. 

Stuffed Potatoes.- Bake medium sized po- 
tatoes until done. Cut potatoes in halves, scrape out 
contents and mash, as for mashed potatoes. Fill each 
half and place in oven until browned. — Miss Elizabeth 

MeNeal, Gufhrie, Okla. 

Creamed Potatoes.-Cut boiled irlsh pota- 
tatoes into dice; make a thick cream sauce, salt and 
pepper potatoes to taste and the cream over them. 

Serve hot. — Mrs. Cline. 

Creamed A«.paragus.— Lay the asparagus 
tied in bunches in a stewpan of boiling water, salted; 
boil one-half hour. Make a cream sauce of the liquor 
by adding an equal quantity of cream and thicken with 
flour as for cream sauce. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Place the asparagus (use only the tender pieces) on 
pieces of buttered toast or rosette wafers and pour the 
sauce over them. Garnish with the yolks of hard boiled 
eggs run through a ricer. Celery cut in suitable lengths 
may be cooked in the same way.— Mrs. J. it. Wallace. 



60 

Creams of vegetables are, of course, suitable len- 
ten soups, and all are made in about the same way. In- 
to a quart of boiling milk stir a cupful of the vegetable 
puree— that is, the vegetable boiled and pressed through 
a sieve; rub a tablespoonful each of butter and flour to- 
gether in another sauce pan over the fire and dilute 
slowly with the first mixture. Now, if this is a cream 
of cauliflower, add also a cupful of the flowerets broken 
very small; if of celery, a few spoonsful of the inner 
stalks boiled soft and diced; if of carrot, some tiny, 
long shreds of boiled carrot and stars cut out of slices 

of the carrot. — Mi-s. Edgar N. Blake. 



61 



Eg^and l^iccOmelel, Bakec!.— One cup 

cold boiled rice, mashed to a paste with an equal qu-intity 
of milk. Season with pepper and salt, butter the size 
of an e'^g, (melted.) Three eggs beaten seperately. 
Stir all together. Bake in a buttered dish.— Mrs. n. d 

Bull, Jerseyville, III. 

Baked Omelet.— To the beaten yolks of five 
egg3, add one-half cupful milk; season with salt and 
pepijer. Beat the whites until stiff. Mix quickly with 
the yolks and milk. Turn into a buttered dish and bake. 
This same recipe may be used for a fried omelet, cook 
only until creamy then fold. — a. r-,. u :s d ..fy, St. Louis 

Mo, 

Plain Omelr.t — F^ur eggs, five tablespoonsful 
cold water, one tab'espoonful corn starch, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth. Add the w i ter, salt and pepper to yolks and 
beat till very light. Fold in lightly, the beaten whites. 
Put in a hot spider, one-half tablespoonful butter. Pour 
in the mixture and cover closely until thoroughly set, 
raising with a knife at intervals, to keep from burning. 
Fold in half and serve very hot in a covered dish. — 

Mrs. C. K. Luce. 

i orn ai'.d E^i§ OmeJcl", r>aked.— Scald 
one pint of milk and pour over one cupful bread crumbs 
and stir. Take six egTS and beat seperately. Add the 
yolks to the bread crumbs and milk. Take one cupful 
of canned corn and one-half teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der and stir into the mixture. I3eat the whites to a 
froth and add last. Heat the baking dish, butter it, 
pour in the mixture and bake. — -'Srs Car.kio B rruui^ii, 

Bloomington, III. 

E,^§ Omelet with Ton^a'o Saif< e,-Four 
eggs beaten seperately and seasoned. Add two table- 



62 

spoonsful of water to the yolks; also a good sized 
lump of butter, and stir eggs together and pour into a 
hot, well buttered frying pan. When done roll up and 
pour over it the following sauce. Juice of scant cup of 
tomatoes, one-half teaspoonful of ground onion, (if hked-) 
Thicken the tomatoes with corn starch to make a nice 
smooth sauce— but not too thick. Cook and stir until 
done. Pour over the omelet. — Mrs. Luther n. Patton. 

Shirrt'.d E§^S.— About 6 eggs, whites beaten 
stiff and then take yolks of eggs beaten, put in double 
boiler and season with butter size of walnut and salt 
and pepper. Good for sick people. — Mrs. L. L, snne. 

A delicious variation tj your omelets can be had 
by a cheese flavor, vv^hich can be added just before serv- 
ing. Grate the desired quantity over the omelet just 
before folding. 

ScrambUuf E^C^S.-A common fault in 
scrambling eggs is that they are cooked so hard that 
they are tough and indigestible. If a tablespoonful of 
m'ik or water for each egg, and the mixture only cooked 
until creamy, stirring meanwhile, the result will be a 
dish both appetizing and wholesome. Serve with but- 
tered toast. Garnished with a sprinkling of fried or 
boiled ha n ( Run through a meat chopper) makes a 

nice variation. — Mrs. Ed^ar N. BIak«, 

hL^% lielisi^.— Use number of eggs sufficient 
for the people you are to serve. For each egg allow 
one tablespoonful dry bread crumbs and two talbespoons- 
ful rich m.iik. Pour milk over crumbs and when they 
are soft, add the eggs, not beaten; then with a silver 
fork mix lightly. Have frying pan ready with hot but- 
ter, just enough to keep eggs from sticking; pour the 
mixture in and fry until eggs are set. Stir with fork 
as in scrambled eggs. If you like, the eggs may be 
beaten before adding to the crumbs then fry like an 

omelet. — Mrs l^d*,a«' ^- RFako. 



68. 

Baked E^^s with Cheese.-piaceoneegg, 
being careful not to break the yolk, in each ramekin or 
tea CUD, set them in oven in a pan of hot water Grate 
over the top of each egg a little cheese, bake long 
enough t ) coc k egg to suit staste. Serve hot, A more 
dainty dish is made by beating the whites to a stiff 
froth and placing yolk in center on top of a mound 
of the beaen white. If desired the latter style 
may be bak3d in bak'ngdish: place each yolk so it 
cm be served nice'y without touch ing Ih ^ next. 
An attractive di-h can be made o it of the latter 
by arranging cheese straws in dishes to resemble a nest 

--Mrs Edger N. Blake. 



64. 



Cheese dishes may be served at lunch, dinner or 
tea; excellent served with salad. 

Cheese Straws.— One cupful grated cheese, 
one c ipfal fl)ar, one-half spoonful salt and red pepper 
to taste, butter size of an egg and enough cold water to 
mix. It takes very little water. Mix butter and flour 
first, cheese next, water last. Roll thin, cut in str.ps 

and bake.— Mrs. E. E. Coffey 

Cheese Straws.-Mix one cup flour, one 
tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, add one cup- 
ful grated cheese, and milk enough to roll out thin and 
smooth. Cut in strips and bake. — ajj.-,-. Sarah w, Terrei 

^all Lakti Citv, Urah. 

(^hc-eseSouffe. -Place in a buttered baking 
dish several slices of stale bread. Beat very I'ghtly 
three eggs, add one and one-half cups.ul sweet milk, 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the bread and 
sprinkle over the top one-half cupful of grated cheese. 
Bake one-half hour or until thoroughly set. Use me- 
dium oven and serve very hot. — Mrs. c. k. Luce. 

( heese Souffle.— Two tablespoonsful butter 
one heaping of flour, two cupsful of milk, one half cup- 
ful grated cheese, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Put butter, flour, milk, cheese and yolks of eggs well 
beaten, and salt in the same pan. After it begins to 
boil, cook two minutes. Set aside to cool. When cool 
add whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth; turn in butter- 
ed pan and bake so the whites are cooked. Serve the 
moment it comes out of the oven. The dish should hold 

a quart. — Mrs. Sussin Seardsleo Jackson, Upper Alton, III. 

Cheese Ba^ls. — One and one-half cupsful grat- 
ed cheese, one tablespoonful flour, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt and mustard and red pepper, the whites of three 
well beaten eggs. Shape into balls, roll in cracker 
crumbs and cook in hot lard. — Mr*. . . l>. Baysin§ef 



^5. 

Cheese Straws.— Roll puff paste thin, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, fold, roll out and sprinkle 
again and repeat the process. Roll in rectangular shape 
one-eighth of an inch thick. Place it on a baking pan 
and with a pastry cutter dipped in hot water, cut in- 
to strips four or five inches long and less than a quar- 
ter of an inch wide. Bake in a moderate oven.— Mr*. 

A. M Appe'g-f. 

Deviled Cheese.— Two pounds cream cheese 
grated, five ounces butter, melted, two tablespoonsful 
mustard, two tablespoonsful Worcestershire sauce, one- 
half teaspoonful sugar; cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 
Mix smooth and put in jars until ready to use. — Mrs. a. 

Turnbuil. 

Cheese Balls.— Make smear case; form into 
balls about the size of large walnut, and place each ball 
on a square salted wafer,|buttered.— Mr». uaiph workman. 



66. 



l>astry. 

Steward Pie.— Two cupsful sugar; one-half 
cup butter; one cupful milk; four eggs; melt the butter. 
The above will make two pies. — Mrs. .|. m. workman. 

Joe Pie. — One teacupf ul sugar; one tablespoonful 
butter; one tablespoonful flour; one teacupful sweet 
milk; one egg. Whip them seperately and bake with a 

lower crust. — Mrs. Lena Mewins, Texline, Texas. 

Molasses Custard Pie.— One cupful molas- 
ses; one tablespoonful sugar; two eggs; butter size of 
walnut. Cook this to a thick syrup. Cook the crust 
first and pour the above in and brown a golden brown. 

— Mrs- Alice Taylor, Forest City, Ark. 

( hocolate Pie.— Two tablespoonsful chocolate; 
one pint boiling water; yolks of two eggs; two table- 
spoonsful corn starch; six tablespoDnsfal sugar; beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth; sweeten and put on top 
and brown in the oven. — Mrs. j. m. Workman. 

< hocolate Pie.-One cupful milk; two table- 
spoonsful grated chocolate; three-fourths cupful sugar; 
add yolks of three eggs; heat milk and chocolate togeth- 
er; add sugar and yolks beaten to a cream; flavor and 
bake with an under crust. Whip the v/hites and spread 

on top and brown. — Mrs. I> .». Lowry. 

Qreen Tomato Pie.— slice green tomatoes 
sufficient to fill lower crust; half teacupful sugar; tea- 
spoonful butter; tablespoDnful vinegar; flavor with nut- 
meg; bake with two crusts in moderate oven. — Mrs. a. 

E. Blake, (jil:tH»-.. W>o.. 

Mock Cherry Pie,-One large cupful cran- 
berries; three-fourths cupful seeded raisins chopped to- 
gether; place on the stove with one cupful boiling water; 
one and one-half cupsful sugar; one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla; add a little salt and stir in ione tablespoonful 



m. 

corn starch dissolved in a little water. Cook until thick. 
Bake with two crusts or with the lattice strips of crust 

across the top. — Mrs. E. i^. Linn. 

Lemon l^ie.— Grate the rind of one lemon; peel 
and grate the pulp; add one cup of sugar; beat three 
eggs and stir all together; bake with two crusts. This 

makes one pie. — Mrs. j<»seph iluntei-. 

Lemon Pie.— Grated rind and juice of one 
lemon; yolks of two eggs, beaten, one cupful white 
sugar, one-half cupful of milk, one-half cupful of water, 
two tablespoonsful of melted butter, or all milk and no 
butter, two tablespoonsful of flour. Mix flour and 
sugar dry. Bake in one cru-t, when done beat whites 
to a stiff froth; add one teaspoonf ul of white sugar; and 
spread over top. Set in oven and brown lightly.— 

Mr». N. K. Beardslce. 

Buttor Milk Pie.-One and one-half cupsful 
butter-milk; one-half cupful su"-ar; two eggs; one table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, rubbed smoothly to- 
gether; one-half teaspoonful lemon extract; mix all in- 
gredients except whites ot eggs and bake with one crust 
Cover with meringue made with the white of the eggs, 
and two tablespoonsful sugar, browning hghtly in the 

oven. — Mary K. Munter. 

Chess Pio. -One-half cupful butter; one-half 
cupful sugar; one-half cupful water; three eggs well 
beaten, one teaspoonful cinnamon; one teaspoonful all- 
spice; one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake in a crust and 

frost — Mrs Joel W. Taylor, Knid. Okia, 

Sliced Sweet Potato Pie.— Use cold boiled 
sweet potatoes, sliced one-fourth inch thick; put two 
layers in lower crust; one tablespoonful butter; one third 
cup sugar; flavor with nutmeg. Put water enough to 
cover the potato. Bake with top crust in moderate 

oven. — Mrs. A, E. Blake, Gillette, Wyo. 



68. 

Cream Puffs.-One-half cupful butter melted 
in one cupf al hot water; when boiling, stir in one cup- 
ful flour; set to cool; then stir in three eg-gs, one at a 
tim9 without baating. Drop on hot tins and bake twenty 
or thirty minutes. 

FiLLiN<5— B eat together three tablespoonsf ul 
flour; one egg and half a teacupful sugar, and stir in a 
half pint milk while boiling and flavor.— .M i s s Lenora 

Liivry, 

Cream Puffs.-Put me cup water and butter 
size of an egg on the stove, vAien boiling, stir in a cup- 
ful of flour, and cook until it leaves side of pan; add a 
h'ttle salt and pinch of baking powder, and stir until 
cpld; then add four or five unbeaten eggs one at a 
time. Drop in teaspoonsful an inch or more apart, and 
bike forty minutes in a slow oven. Fill with whipped 

cream or custard. — Mary K. tlun^er. 

Creani Pie.— Place crust in pans, pick well with 
a fork and bake until done; yolks of four eggs, one and 
one-half pints of milk; one cup of sugar; three table- 
spoonsful flour; mix flour dry with the sugar, butter 
size of an egg, fl.avor to suit taste; boil in double boiler 
until thick, put in crusts spread over the top. the v/ell 
beaten whites; place in oven to brown lightly. This 

recipe makes two pies.— Mrs. N. K. Beardslee. 

Children's Fruit Pie.— Use a pudding dish 
of crockery or enamel ware and place in the center a 
teac;p (without a handle) upside down. If you use 
peaches, peel and cut them in small pieces, filling up the 
dish all around the cup. Sweeten with sugar according 
to the tartness of the fruit. Add a few spoonsful of 
water and a dredging of flour. When you use apples, 
cut them up fine and heap up the dish until a little above 
the cup. Svv'eeten and add some snice, either nutmeg 
or cinnamon, and put little pieces of butter all about the 
top and a little water. Cover the entire top of the dish 
with flake pie crast and cut slits at intervals in the 
crust. Do not remove the cup until the pie is served at 



69. 

the table, when ycu can ir.sert the blade cf a-knife un- 
der the edere of the cup, which will allcw the air tc- go 
in and release the juice, of which you will find you have 
a cupful, and the fruit will be deliciously steamed. 
This kind of a pie will not harm the digestion of anyone. 
This pie should be eaten cold. — Mrs. Rd^or n. bi ke. 

Amber Pre.— One cupful jam; one cupful sour 
cream, two-thirJs capfal of sugar, two table- 
spoonsful flour mixed with the sugar, yolks 
four eggs, and vanilla to taste. Use one crust 
and bake in slow oven. Whip whites of eggs, with four 
tablespoonsful sugar, spread on top of pie and brown. 

This makes two pies. — Mrs. a. J. Miller, Morriionville.III. 

Cream Pie. For One Pie.- One cupful 
sugar, two tablespoonsful flour mixed with the sugar, 
one cupfu'. cream, beaten whites of two eggs, vanilla, 

bake in slow oven with lower crust. — Miss Oraee MiUer, 
Morrisonville. III. 

Aunt Merry's Jam Pie.-Five eggs, one cup- 
ful of jam, one cupful butter, one cupful cream, one 

cupful sugar. — Mrs. S. E. V. Miy. 

Mock Lemon Pie.— One cupful sugar, yolks 
of three eggs beaten well, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
take threee tablespoonsful flour and mix with cold 
water enough to form a paste, then add hot water suf- 
ficient to cook it. and add to custard mixture and stir 
all well together. Flavor with lemon extract. Have 
pie pan lined with rich pastry, pour in the custard and 
bake in an oven not too hot. Then whip the whites add 
sugar and place on top of pie and brown lightly.— m r». 

J. L. Dickinson. 

Raisin Pie.— One cupful seeded raisins, juice 
of one lemon, one cupful cold water, one tablespoonful 
Iflour. one cupful sugar, two tablespoonsful butter, stir 

light J rti.d b^ke with two crusts.— Mrs. W. W. Slantil- 
for4. 



70; 

l^osctje Wafors.-One egs, ons-half salt 
spoonful salt, one- half cupful milk, half cupful flour (a 
little more if necessary) beat eggs slightly with the egg 
and salt, add milk and flour a little at a time, beat until 
smooth. This will make one and a half dozen rosettes. 
If wanted to serve with fruit add half a teaspoonf ul of 

sugar to the batter.— Mrs. Edgar N. Blake. 



7L 



Cakes. 

Bridfis Cake.— One cupful butter, one pound 
sugar, one pound flour, whites of sixteen eggs, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, one a'^d one-half . teaspoor.ful 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of peach or almond 
flavoring, sift flour and cream of tartar together cream 
butter,^ and sugar, add flavoring, then soda dis- 
solved in spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add the 
stiffly beaten whites, bake in moderate oven, — virs. u Ab- 

but. 

Angel Pood —The whites of fifteen small or 
thirteen large eggs, beaten continually with a wire boat- 
er, till stiff. On3 and oni-half cups sugar sifted four 
times. One cupful of floar sifted five times. One tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, sifted through the flour, sift the 
sugar in gradually then add extract, then add the flour 
slowly. Dust in a little salt on whites of eggs before 
beating. Bake forty minutes in a slow oven. — Mr* :. b. 

Whife I oaf Cake.-Three- fourths cupful of 
butter, one and one-half cupsful of sugar, well crean^ed, 
one-half cupful of milk, two and one-half cupsful of 
ol flour, sifted with two tf aspoonsful o baking powder, 
the well beaten whites of eight eggs, flavor with vanilla 
uncooked. 

Frosting- Beat the whites of two eggs until 
stiff, stir into this confectioner's sugar until of the right 
consistency to spread. Flavor vvith vanilla. — ^^'-s. a. m. 

Appe'^et 

Wh^te Layer Cak(^-Whites of eight eggs, 
two cupsful sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful of milk, 
three cupsful of flour, two tablespoonsful baking pow- 
der, flavor to suit taste. Cream, butter and sugar 
together thoroughly, then pour in milk, stirring lightly. 
Pour in the beaten whites of eggs, also stirring lightly, 
Flavor. Lastly, sift flour and baking powder too-ether 
and sift into cake stirring well but lightly. Bake, in 
greas?d tins with dry flour sprinkled over them, in a 
moderate oven. — virs. wm. urifriih.Levton, ai<>, 



72. 

ASmond <^ake.— Make three layers of good 
white cake, flavored with ahnond extract, one pound of 
almonds blanched and split into halves, one-half pound 
of seeded raisins, spread icing, (use my bo^'led icing) on 
lower layer, lay on a row of almonds, then a row of the 
raisins split open, and so on until layer is covered. 
Then spread more icing over the fruit to make the next 
layer stick, proceed as above for the next layer. Ice 
the top and put the aim >nds on it in even rows. Cut 
with a very sharp knife. — Mrs. Ed^aris. tiiake. 

See Cre un Cake With Lemon Filling.— 

One-half cupful butter, one and one-half cupsf ul of sugar 
two cupsful of flour, one-half cupful of milk, whites of 
five eggs, two level teaspoonsful baking powder, one- 
half spoonful vanilla extract. Beat butter to a cream 
and gradually beat into it sugar and then vanilla, add 
milk and the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Last 
stir in the flour and baking powder and bake in lay- 
ers. Delicious with the following filling: 

Lemon Filling. —Juice of two lemons and grated 
rind of one, one cupful sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one egg and butter the size of walnut and one-half cup- 
ful of water, boil until the consistency of starch, fin- 
ish with boiled frosting. — >!r.s. joi.n j. <.i«riac.h. 

Lemon Cake.— One cupful butter, two cupsful 
sugar, three cupsful flour, four eggs beaten separately, 
two teaspo :>nsf ul baking powder sifted in flour. 

Filling. —One cupful sugar, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon, or one and a half lemons if not very juicy, 
two tablespoonsful of butter, two eggs, beat all togeth- 
er and boil until the consistency of jelly. — .sirs. w. H. 

O lii-ian. 

Orange Gctke.— Same as above using oranges 
instead of lemons. If the orange is not tart add a httle 

lemon juice. — Mrs. M^. U. 0'J3rian. 

Lemon felly Cake.— Cream one cupful of 
sugar and one-half cupful ot butter, add the beaten 
yoiks of three f ggs, and one-half cupful of sweet milk, 
add two cupsful of flour into whicn two teaspoonsful of 



73. 

baking powder has been sifted twice. Flavor with lemon 
and bake in three layers. 

Filling. —One cupful of sugar and the yolk of one 
egg beaten together, then add the white of one e"^g 
beaten to a froth and the rind and juice of one large 
lemon. Pour over this one-half cupful boiling water 
then stir into this one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little water. Add one tablespoonful of 
melted butter and cook until it thickens. When cold 
spread between the layers of the cake. — Airs. Wmona 

Hunter. 

Minnehaha Layer Cake.— Butter one cupful, 
sugar two cupsful, milk one cupful, flour three cupsful, 
whites of eight eggs, baking powder two teaspoontlul. 

Fruit Filling.— One cupful seeded raisins and one 

cupful English walnut meats chopped fine, one cupful 

of sugar, juice of one lemon, one cupful of boiling water, 

let all boil together until thick and when cold spread 

etween the layers. — Mp». j. a. Putton, 

Carmel C.ke.— Two cupsful brown sugar, one- 
half cupful butter, one-half cupful hot water, one- half 
cupful of grated chocolate, one-half cupful sour n ilk, 
two cupsful flour, one teaspoonful soda in hot water, 
two well beaten eggs. Vanilla one teaspoonful. 

Filling.— Two cupsful brown sugar, one-half cup- 
ful butter one-half cupful sweet cream cook until it 
threads, beat until cool and stir in one cupful chopped 

walnuts. — Mrs. C. A. Brown. 

Cream Cake.— Three eggs, one cupful sugar 
beaten v/ell together, two tablespconsful water, one 
and one-half cupsful flour, one and one-half teaspoonsful 
baking powder. Make this in two layers. 

Cream Filling —Mix three tablespoonsful sugar 
with one tablespoonful corn starch, then cream one 
tablespoonful butter with the sugar and starch. Now 
add three-fourths pint sweet milk and one egg well beat- 
en. Boil in double boiler, stir until thick, then add one 
teaspoonful lemion and spread while hot between the 

layers. — Mrs. Ed?iar iS. BSakc. 



74. 

Washfn^ton ('akc.-One large tablespoonful 
butter, one cupful sugar. Beat well together. One- 
half cupful sweet milk two eggs beaten separately, two 
cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon. Bake in layers. Use either lemon 

or custard filling. — Mrs. Kalph Workman. 

Jelly iiolL — This is also an excellent receipt for 
hot water sponge cake, if baked in a loaf. For the roll 
it never breaks and have never konwn it to fail, two eggs, 
whites beaten to a froth add yolks and beat, one cup- 
ful sugar beat in, stir one cupful of flour in thoroughly, 
add half cupful boiling water, beat again, one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful baking powder, beat 
again, add any flavoring preferred, have the tin ready, 
pour in evenly, bake in rather a quick oven, not too hot, 
t.irn out on a dampened towel, spread quickly with jelly, 
roll up and keep towel around it until cold. — Mrs. u. a- 

j^eii), iMorrisoavillc. 

Sunshsnt) Cake.— whites ten eggs, yolks of six 
eggs, one and one-half cupsful powdered sugar, one 
teaspoonful orange extract, one and one-eighth cupsful 
pastry fl jur, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Do not beat 
eggs until they will fly from the spoon, beat the sugar 
in gradually with egg beater, also flour. After it com- 
mences to bake press it down with the hand to keep the 
top crust from rising up from rest of cake. Cut cake 
with fork. I have taken first prize on this cake at the 

Will county Fair. — irs. Hezekiah Nicoles, Joliet. III. 

One. Two, Three Four Cake.-One cup- 
ful butter, two cupsful sugar, three cupsful flour, four 
eggs, one cupful of milk. First cream the butter and 
sugar, then add the beaten yolks of eggs and thoroughly 
stir. Add the flour and milk, a little at a time until 
both ingredients are used. Dissolve two and one-half 
teaspoonsful baking powder in milk, stir in the well 
beaten whites of the eggs last. Flavor to suit the taste. 
B.ik3 in layer.? and if white cake is preferred, leave out 

the yolks of eggs. — .Mrs. Anna K. Spacer. 



m 

Spfco Cak(\ — Two cupsful sugar, one cupful 
butter, yolks of five eggs, and one whole egg, one tea- 
spoonful each of allspice, cinnamon, cloves and some 
nutmeg. One teaspoonf ul soda diss.lved in one cupful 
of butter milk. Add three cupsful flour. It is good 
baked either ^'n layers or in a loaf. — Mr.-<. t*. a. Boyi«. 

^^larb'e Cake.— Light Part.— One cupful 
granulated sugar, one-halt cupful milk, one-half cup- 
ful butter, two cupsful flour, two teaspoonsful baking 
powder, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract. 

Dark Part. —One cupful dark brown sugar, one- 
half cupful milk, one-half cupful butter, one-half cup- 
Tul molasses, (N. 0. preferred,) two cupsful flour, two 
spoonsful baking powder, yolks of four eggs, one table- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful each of cloves, nut- 
meg and allspice. Mix the batter seperately then put 
one spoonful of the light, and the dark alternately into 
the pan. Bake in a moderate oven, use boiled icing on 
top and sides, making it real thick on top. This cake 
does not dry out easily and double the recipe fills a gal- 
lon milk pan. — A!r.s. N. K. Beardslee. 

M jshod Poiato Cak«.— One cupful butter, 
two cupsful sugar, two cupsful flour, one cupful mashed 
potat >es, one-half cupful milk, one-half cupful chocolate, 
two taaspo^nsfal baking powder, one tablespoonsful of 
cinnamon, one ta.blespoonful of cloves, one tablespoon- 
f 111 vanilla, one nutmeg grated, four eggs, one cupful 

chopped nuts. — M=^s. henry Ozaniie. 

SofJ Gin^>er Brc^ad.— One cupful molasses, 
one-half cupful sugar, one cupful sour milk, one egg, 
one-half cupful butter or lard, one teaspoonful soda, 
one tea-poonful each of cinnamon and cloves, two tea- 
snoonsful ginger, two cupsful flour before sifting, warm 
the molasses and beat in the soda until foamy. -Mrs. N. 

K B.-aril.st««, 

Fruit C ike.— Two cupsful brown sugar, one 
cupful white sugar, two cunsful syrup, one-fourth cup- 
ful brandy, one-fourth cupful coffee, twelve eggs beat- 



76. 

en separately, three-fourths pound of flour, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoo'^ful allspice, one teaspoonful 
cloves, two teaspoonsf ul cinnamon, two pounds currants, 
two pounds raisins, one-fourth pound each of orange 
and lemon peel (candied,) one-half pound figs, one-half 
pound nuts, one pound butter, steam one hour and bake 

two hours. — Alr>. iJenry lltonnpson. 

Devil's Food. -Cake Part. One cupful dark 
brown sugar, one-half cupful milk, one-half cupful but 
ter, two eggs, two cupsful flour (level,) one teaspoon 
even full of soda put in cream when cold, and then mix 
the cream and cake and bake in two square tins. 

Cream Part of Cake.— One cupful grated choco- 
late two-thirds cupful dark brown sugar, one-half cup- 
ful sweet milk, one egg yolk only, stir and cook until 
thickened, cool and flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla, 
do not cook too much. 

Icing For Devil's Food.— Two cupsful sugar, 
one- fourth cupful chocolate, one c pful boiling water, 
butter the size of an egg, boil until it thickens, remove 
from the stove, and stir until thick enough to spread 

— Mrs. T. L. O' Bryan. 

Dtivil's Pood Cake.— Two cupsful dark 
brown sugar, one-half cupful butter two eggs one-half 
cupful sour milk, three cupsful of cake flour, pinch of 
salt, mix thoroughly. Take one-half cupful boilii g water, 
stir into this one teaspoonful of soda and one-half cup- 
ful of grated Baker's chocolate, stir into batter. 

Filling. — Two cupsful dark brovvn sugar, one-half 
cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sweet milk or cream, 
cook until it threads. — Mrs. E. L. i^ob«rt». 

Coffee < ake.— One cupful strong coffee liquid, 
one cupful molasses, one cupful brown sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, one cupful of raisins, four cupsful flour, 
three eggs, two teaspoonsful cinnamon and one teaspoon- 
ful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful soda. 
Bake slowly one hour like brea I.— Mrs. i>..ui Aietiiagtir. 

Apple Sauce Oke.-One and one-half cups- 
ful apple sa,Lce (stew 1.3 f^r lal.e use and mash fine,) 



77. 

one-half cupful butter, one cupful of sugar, two cups- 
ful flour, one teaspoonful soda, one cupful raisins, spiced 

to suit. Bake one hour. — Mrs. v^'. tl. O'Brian. 

Gold Loaf Cake.- Yolks of eight eggs, one 
cupful granulated sugar, one-half cupful butter, two- 
thirds cupful sweet milk, three cupsful flour, one tea- 
spoonfil creim tartar, one-third teaspoonful soda. 
Flavor t^ taste. Sift flour once then measure, add soda 
and sift three times, cream butter and sugar thorough- 
ly, beat yjlks about half, add cream tartar and beat to 
a stiff froth, add this to cream, butter and sugar, stir 
thoroughly through, add milk then flour. Flavor and 
stir very hard. Put in moderate oven. Will bake in 
about thirty minutes. — Mrs \l. F. McKio. 

Cold VVat< r FvuU (ake.— Two cuosf ul 
granulated sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful chopj ed 
raisins, one cupful cold water, two egg?, one teaspoon- 
ful lO la, spice if you wi^h. Fiour enough to thicken. — 

Mrs, W. n. O'Brian. 



78. 



Cake Frosiin^s and Fillings. 

Boi'cd Frosting.— Two cupsful sugar, one- 
half cupful cold water, boil to a syrup, until it forms a 
soft bail, when tested in cold water, pour over the 
whites of two eggs, beaten very stiff, (add one-eighth 
teaspoonsful cream of tartar to the whites after tney 
are partly beaten. ) Stir constantly while pouri.ig the 
syrup over egg, then beat very hard until stiff. Spread 

on cake before it is cold. — Mrs. Edj^jar N. Blake. 

UncODked Froslin^.— (See white loaf cake.) 

Mar^hmalow Frosting — Two cupsful 
sugar, one-half cupful cold watir, whites of two e"-gs, 
one-eighth teaspoonf ul cream of tartar, nine marsh mal- 
lows. Put creasn of tartar into the sugar, aaci the cold 
water, stir until dissolved, boil ui til it drips from a 
wooden spoon like honey or syrup, add seven tablespoons- 
ful of syrup to the stiffly beaten whites of egg^, beating 
this until white and smooth. Return su rar to stove 
cook until it ropes from spoon, put marsh oialows into 
oven until they puff up then put them ''nto eggs and pour 
the rest of syrup over, beat for some time, bi read on 
cake before it gets cold. — Mrs. w. n. O' Brian. 

Oran^^e Frosting — (See orange cream cake.) 

Chocolate Frostin'^.-Cne cupful of sugar, 
whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, three table- 
spo)nsful of grated Baker's cLo olate, two tablespoons- 
ful of water. Boil in a double b )iler until thick enough 
to s )read. This makes enough f )r three layers. Flavor 

Wit.l vanilla. — iMrs. Ed^ap IS. Blake. 

Pineapi^le Fillir ^^.—One and one-half cupsful 
pow iared sugar, one smal can grated pineapple, one 
table spoonful milk, one tt blespoonf ul melted butter. 
Thor jaghly mix and spread on the layers of cake while 
they are warm. — Mr». c c. rioag 



79, 

L»mon Filling.-One cupful of sugar, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, or one and a half lemons 
if not very juicy, twotablespoonpsful butter, two eggs, 
beat all toge her and boil until the consistency of jelly. 

Orange Filling. — Same as above using oranges 
instead of lemons. If the orange is not tart add a little 

lemon juice. — Mrs. W. ll. O'tJrian. 

Fi^ Pilling —Chop one pound of figs, add one 
teacupful sugar and one- half teacupful water, boil 
fifteen minutes. Spread between the layers. — Mr*. i:»i?>-r 

Ice Cream Filling, M^ith K-aisins or 

Nuts. — Three cupsful sugar, three eggs (whites,) one- 
half pound raisins, or nut kernels, one-half teaspoonful 
citric acid. Boil the sugar with a liltle water until it 
hardens slightly in water, have the beaten whites of 
eggs ready, dust over with the citric acid (powdered,) 
then pour on the boiling sugar, pouring rapidly, if rais- 
ins are used have them made into a thick preserve with 
little or no syrup, and pour into the sugar and egg mix- 
ture, beating all the time, when the mixture begins to 
cool and harden slightly, spread between the layers of 
the cake. It should be thick and a little soft, not sugary, 
if nuts are used chop them up and stir them in before 

spreading on cake. — Mrs. lunaOrirfith Lcmmi.n, St. Louis, 
Mo. 

Apple Filling.-Three large apples grated fine, 
one lemon, grated rind and juice, one egg beaten with 
one cupful sugar, boil all together in a farina kettle un- 
til it thickens. — Mrs. Paul Mellinger. 

Chocolate Filling— Two cupsful brown 
sugar, one cupful milk, three-fourths cupful chocolate, 
a small lump of butter, vanilla, cook until it forms a 
soft ball, st'r till cool 

Anja huggin's (aramel Fillirg.-Two 
cupsful brown sugar, one cupful cream, one- half cupful 
butter, cook to the consistency of candy. If you 
haven't brown sugar use the yolks of three eggs and 
the same amount of white sugar. — Mr», a h. v. ^h>. 



Dou.^lmuts, Cookies and Small Cakes. 

DoiJ§lu.uts.— One cupful sugar, three eggs, 
one capful sweet milk, three level teaspoonsful baking 
powder, four cupsful flour, nutmeg and salt to taste, 
stir sugar and milk together until sugar is dissolved, 
add the beaten yolks of eggs, salt and nutmeg, then 
half the flour, now add two tablespoonsful hot Urd, 
lastly, balance of flour and the beaten whites of eggs. 

— Mary K. Hunter 

fii>t Doughnuts.— One and one-half cupsful 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, one cupful sour milk, one 
teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful baking powder, two 
level spoonsful melted lard, nutmeg, salt, mix as soft 
as can be handled; put av^ay in dish with tight cover, 
and do not fry the day made up, as it absorbs too mucii 
grease when first made, fry as needed and eat while hot. 

— Mrs. F. M.CIine. 

Fried Gakes.~One and one-half cupsful 
sugar, one cupful sour milk, dissolve sugar, in milk, 
even teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
a little nutmeg, add flour to make a smooth dough, soft 
enough to handle conveniently. Roll out the dough on 
a well floured board to half an inch thick, cut out with 
dou^-hnut cutter and fry in plenty of hot lard. — Mrs. a. 

M. <\})pe!t;ct. 

Gm^^cr Cookies. -One cupful granulated 
sugar, one-half cupful butter, one-half cupful lard, two 
egg^, one cupful molasses, one tablespoonful cinnamon, 
one tablespoonful ginger, one-half cupful cold water, 
two scant teaspoonsful soda one teaspoonful baking 
powder, flour enough to make a soft dough and bake in 
a quick oven. — a rs. E. li. Linn. 

Oa! IVIe d Cookies.— Three-fourths cupful 
butter, one cupful light brown sugar, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon, two small cupsful flour, one cup- 



81. 

ful uncooked oat meal, threa-fourths teaspoonfui soda, 
ona-half cud nuts, otie-half cup raisins. Drop in small 
balls in greased pans an inch apart and bake m a quick 

oven. — Mrs. A.L. I^us!. 

Chocolate Wisfers.— One cupful brown sugar 
one cupful white sugar, one cupful butter, one egg, one 
cupful chocolate, one teaspoonful vanilla, enou'^h fl )ur 
to make stiff about one and one-half cupsful, roll very 
thin and cut with cake cutter. Bake quickly. — Mr*, o. 

A. Pit;r!»t>n. 

Fruit Cookies - One cupful sugar, onecuoful 
butter, one-half cupful molasses, one cupful currants, 
one-half cupful raisins chopped, one small teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful bakng powder, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, two eggs, and a little salt, two and a half 

cupsful flour. — Mrs. I>. 11. Pation. 

Peanut Macaroons.— One cup'ul of chopped 
peanuts, one of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful flour 
and whites of two eggs, to which has been added a 
pinch of cream of tartar before beating. Drop on 
greased paper and bake slowly thirty minutes. Flavor 

to suit taste. — Mrs. U. I1. StalJin<{s. 

Macaroons —Whites ot four eggs beaten 
very stiff, three-fourths cupful granulated sugar, one 
cupful nuts, (chopped,) mix and add to eggs, with as 
litt'.e beating as possible. Grease pan and drop with a 
teaspoon, bake in a slow oven one-half hour. When 
they can be lifted from the pan without sticking they 
are done. Th's will make about three dozen macaroons. 

— Mrs. Scott 5. vViiltcrl.ouse. 

Oat Meat Cookies.— One and one-half cups- 
ful darkest brown sugar, one cupful of butter or lard 
(add one teaspoonful salt, if lard is used.) two cupsful 
flour, one cupful seeded raisins, one-half cupful sour 
milk, into which dissolve, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
two eggs beaten seperately, one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, two cupsful uncooked oat meal. Mix all 
thoroughly and drop from a spoon in small cake on 



82. 

greased tins about two inches apart. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven, hot enough to keep them from spreading too 
much. Experience alone can teach you this. — Mrs. 

Jess liroHnlee, 

Colden Ciinger Drops.-One-half cup molas- 
ses, one-fourth cupful brown sugar, one-fcurlh cupful 
butter, one teaspoonful soda, one-eighth teaspoonful 
salt (scant,) one and one-half (scant) cupsful flour, one 
egg, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful cloves, one tablespoonful ginger, One-half cup- 
ful boiling water. Cream butter, add sugar, then hot 
water with the soda dissolved in it. Add* beaten egg 

the last thing. — Mrs. W. n. O'Brian. 



83. 



Puddings and Miscellaneous Dessert. 

Paradise Puddin^i.-Onecupful of dry bread 
crumbs, one cupful sugar, one-half cupful currants, one- 
half cupful raisins, the grated rind of one lemon, one- 
half wine glassful of water into which has been stirred 
the juice of a lemon, one heaping cupful of chopped 
apples, three well beaten eggs, a satltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and 
cinnamon, mix these ingredients thoroughly 
and whisk in at the last moment a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a little warm water, place the 
mass in a buttered mold, tie cover securely and steam 
three hours. Serve with a sauce. — .irs iia Lddi.n.a . 

Oran<:ie Cream l^udding —One pint of 
cream, one half box gelatine, one-half cupful of cold 
water, one cupful sugar, six oranges, one pint milk,^ 
yolk six eggs. Soak the gelatine, in cold 
water, put the milk on the stove ir; a double boiler, 
when hot add the yolks of eggs well beaten, then the 
gelatine, stir until it thickens, but remove from the fire 
before it curdles, let stand two minutes, then add the 
strained juice of the oranges, the cup of sugar and the 
pint of whipped cream or rich milk; when very cold so 
it is set, serve v^'ith plain or whipped cream. Half of 
this makes puddiag for six.— Mrs Charu-.s h: sharp. 

Steamed Graham Puddii,^.- Sift together 
two cupsful graham flour, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful cloves, pour 
over this one-half cupful milk, one half cup- 
ful molasses, (New Orleans), and beat well, add 
one cupful seeded raisins, (floured), pour into well 
greased cans and steam three hours, Fill cans two- 
thirds full. — M rs. C A. Brovn. 

Orange Tapioca Pudding.— s oak two 

tablespoonsful of tapioca in one-half pint of milk over 
night, in the morning make custard of one quart of new 
milk, three eggs, three tablespoonsful sugar, add to this 



custard the tapioca and boil in a farina boiler until it 
thickens; when done let it cool, then pour it over five 
oranges, sliced and well sugared; I use about one-half 
cupful sugrr, beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth and spread over the top and brown lightly. Eat 

when cold. — Mrs. tdger N.. Blake. 

Meamed Corn Meal Pudding.— Two cup- 

f uls sour milk, two cupsf ul corn meal, one and one-half 
cupsful of white flour, one-half cupful molasses, 
one tablespoonful soda and one of salt; steam three 

hours — Mrs R. L. Beardslee, Tpper Alton, III. 

Bananna Pudding— One dozen rpe banannas 
cream to smoth batter, be careful to have all lumps out, 
sweaten to tase, add one pint of whipped cream, and 
cream all together until it gets a little pink, set on ice 
and serve very cold, with whipped cream and chrytsal- 
ixed or brandied cherries on top. — Mrs. Albert b. Pyie, 

Conv.iVf Ark. 

K,oy al Dessert.— Prepare as for a rice pudding 
two well beaten eggs, one pint of milk, one and one- 
half cupsful sugar, sufficeient cooked rice to make it the 
propper consistancy; place on the stove a pudding pan 
in which is put a large tablespoonful of the best butter, 
let this melt, then put in three sliced apples, over which 
pour the rice pudding, grate over this enough Baker's 
chocolate to cover thickly, at the same time sprinkling 
on a dash of curry powder, bake one hour in a slow 
oven. Serve hot or cold.— Mr». Frank Amos. 

Love Pudding.— Five eggs beaten very light, 
one quart sweet milk, one pint sifted flour, a little salt 
and one teasponful baking powder; add flour gently to 
the milk, then add eggs, baking powder and salt. 
Pour in buttered pan and bake in a m.oderate oven. To 
be eaten while hot with sugar and butter saice. — 

Mrs. Catharinee Beaty, Jerseyvill, III. 

Suet Puddlog.-One cupful suet chopped fine, 
one cupful molasses, one cupful sour milk, three-fourths 
teaspoonful baking soda, level teaspconful baking pow- 
der, one teaspoonful each, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg 
and ginger, one cupful raisins, one-fourth cupful figs, 



85. 

one-fourth cupful currants and a very little citron, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. Chop the fruit and 
sprinkle with flour and add last. Steam three hours.— 

Mrs. ^). B. Beofy, 5>t. Louis M«. 

Old Fashioned Brown Betty.— Cover the 

bottom of an earthenware pudding dish with a layer of 
sliced or quartered apples, dotted with bits of butter 
and seasoned with nutmeg, cover with a layer of bread 
crumbs, soaked in milk, not too much milk but enough 
to moisten to prevent them becoming too dry in baking. 
Sprinkle the top with nutmeg, a little sugar and large 
bits of butter. Bake until the apples are done and 
the wh)le is a rich brown. Serve with rich sweetened 
cream, or better yet with whipped cream. It is good 

either hot or cold. — Mrs. John J. Qerlach. 

Plum Puddiivg.— Three-fourths pound suet 
chopped fine, one pound sugar, one pound grated 
bread crumbs, one pound seeded raisins, one pound of 
currants, one-half pint of milk, one gill 3f brandy, one 
nutmeg grated, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, rind and 
juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful salt, nine eggs well 
beaten, three-fourths pound English walnut meats, one 
glass grape jelly, one-half teaspoonful ginger and all- 
spice, one-half pound figs, put in a buttered pail and 
boil five hours. 

Sauce.— One-fourth pound butter, one-half cupful 
sugar, cream well together, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
one-half cupful cream; place over hot water and stir 
until the sauce is smooth and creamy. This is not in- 
tended for a hot sauce. — Mrs Jool \V. Taylor, Enid, Okla. 

En^iisSi Plum Pudding— One pound mus- 
catel raisins, one pound sultana raisins, one pound 
currants, one pound of beef suet, (cut fine,) 
one pound sugar, tv/o ounces each of orange 
and lemon peel, candied, the rind of one fresh 
lemon, grated, four ounces of almonds, three nutmegs 
grated, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoonful salt, 
one pound grated bread crumbs, three-fourths pound 
flour, nine eggs, one glass of grape jell, one-half pound 



nuts. Mix well together. Wet pudding bag in hot 
water, flour inside, pour in pudding. Boil in water for 

nine hours. — iVlrs. Menry t hompson. 

Chocolate Pudding.— One egg, one-half 
cupful sugar, o-ie cupful sweet milk, two cupsful of 
flour, (level) two squares grated chocolate, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Steam two hours. 

Sauce — One cupful powdered sugar, one -half cup- 
ful butter beat sugar and butter together, add two 
tablespoonsful sweet cream, two tablespoonsful sherry. 
Much beating makes sauce a success. Heat over hot 
water just before serving. — .ssr., s. w Woi-tiuip, 5i>at. 

tuck. Uklci. 

Puddin<j.Sauces.-i Hard SAUCE-One cup- 
ful pulverized sugar, two tablespoonsful butter, vanilla, 
lemon juice or nutmeg to taste. Beat the butter to a 
cream and work the sugar into it, making a stiif white 
mass; flavor when ail the sugar is well worked in. This 
sauce is especially good for hot puddings. 

—2 Lemon Cream Sauce— Use double boiler. One 
pint of hot water, one cupful sugar, butter the size of 
an egg, rind and juice of one lemon, yolks of two eggs; 
beat yolk of eggs very light, put all together in'^the 
boiler. Cook about nfteen mintues stirring often. 
When ready to use, beat whites stiiT, stir in lightly and 
you will have a delicious creamy sauce. 

—3 Corn Starch Sauce— Two teaspoonsful corn 
starch, one- half cupful sugar, butter size of an egg. 
Put all together in a small pan and pour in one pmt 
boilin<^ water, stirring all the time until it thickens. 

FlpVOr with lemon. — Mrs. N K. Beardslee. 

i>rur^e \Vi»ip.-One cupful seeded prunes, well 
chopped, whites of six eggs beaten light, one cupful 
sugar, scant one-half spoonful cream of tartar. Bake 
in a slow oven for one-half hour. Serve with whipped 

cream. — Mrs. [loawrd Haning. 

Thanks<iivin*> Crcuiin-Soak one-fourth box 
gelatine in one-fourth cupful water, add one-third cup- 



87. 

ful sugar and two tablespoonsful melted sweetened 
chocolate, pour over it one cupful hot milk, stirring till 
gelatine dissolves, placing bowl in hot water, then re- 
move and cool, when cool set bowl in ice water and stir 
till it becomes quite thick, adding one teaspoon ful of 
cherry (or other) extract, then fold in one pint whipped 
cream and whip until it keeps its shape. Minced nut 
meats add a great deal to the dish. It may be garnished 
with maraschino cherries and macaroons. — ^ «-» w b. n. w- 

comb, lan^i r, Okia, 

SfuFfed Baked Apples.-Core (using large 
corer) six large juicy apples, put them in baking pan 
and baste frequently with a little water, which has been 
prepared thus: To one pint of hot water, add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, one- 
fourth of a lemon (take o t seeds) and a small piece of 
stick cinnamon. Bake until tender then stuff with 
about one-half cupful each of blanched almonds and 
seeded raisins, chopped fine. Serve hot with stiff 
whipped cream. — ^ts. td^^ar n. Biake. 

Pineapple Desserh-One can sliced pine- 
apple, cut in small pieces. Boil together for five 
minutes the following: One cupful sugar, one-half box 
Knox's gelatine, two cupsful hot water, and the juice 
of the pineapple, pour over the chopped pineapple and 
set in cold place to mold. Serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs I. D. rianin^. 

Gr.l ry and Apphi Salad.-Equal parts of 
crisp celery cut into short lengths and tart apples 
scooped from the skin, chopped rather fine, one- half 
pound white grapes, halved and seeded, one-half cupful 
English walnuts, chopped, chill thoroughly before mix- 
ing. At serving time sprinkle lightly with salt and 
mix together. 

Dressing. -^Put yjlks of two eggs into cold soup 
plate, stir in one salt spoonful salt, then add drop by 
drop, eight tablespoonsful of olive oil, a dash of cayenne 
pepper and one and one- half tablespoonsful lemon juice, 
very gradually . At the last moment stir in one-half 



88. 

pint whipped cream. Mix lightly with celery and 
apples and serve in the apple shells. Garnish with 
maraschino cherries. — Mrs John j.Geriaeh. 

Jimkei VVhip —Beat yolks of two eggs lightly, 
add pinch of salt, and two tablespoonsful sugar, when 
well mixed add one pint new milk, flavor with vanilla. 
Set over hot water, stir until hot and pour into serving 
dish. Put junket tablet in, stir, and when cool put into 
ice chest. Heap whites, beaten with two tablespoons- 
ful sugar and one teaspoonful lemon juice on top. Gar- 
nish with candied cherries. — ASr?,. Sc«>tf s. walterhonsti. 

Shredlcd Wheat Biscuit With 
Str<»wf>errjt'S — Prepare berries as for ordinary 
serving. Warm biscuit in oven before using. Cut or 
crush oblong cavity in top of biscuit to form basket. 
Fill the cavity with berries and serve with cream or 
milk. Sweeten to tas e, peaches, blackberries, rasp- 
berries, blueberries, pineapples, banannas, and other 
fruit, fresh or preserved, can be served with shredded 
wheat biscuits in the same way. 

Charlntte I^U-se.-One tablespoonful of 
gelatine soaked in a little cold milk two hours, two coffee 
rupsful of cream, one cupful milk, whip the cream stiff 
in a large bowl, set on ice, boil the milk and pour 
gradually over the gelatine until dissolved, then strain. 
When nearly cold add the whipped cream, a spoonful at 
a time. Sweeten to taste v/ith powdered sugar and 
flavor with vanilla. Line a dish with lady fingers, pour 
in the cream and set in a cool place to harden. Garnish 
with candied cherries. — Mrs e. s. Wig^jm-* 

Apfih^, Desserf.— Fill a quart bowl with alter- 
nate layers of thin sliced apples and granulated sugar, 
add one-half cupful water, place a weight on the sliced 
apples and bake in the oven three hours. Let ail stand 
until cold and then you will turn out i round mass of 
red slices, imbedded in a firm jelly. Itis very nice with 
bread and butter or whipped cream ^aid cake. — Airs, n. 



89? 



Frozen Desserts. 

Peach Sherbc^rf.- Choose twelve very ripe 
jucy peaches, pare and run through sieve or food chop- 
per until reduced to a pulp Make a syrup of twocups- 
ful sugar, one pint water, boil and skim. When cool 
add the peaches and also a little lemon juice, When 
partly frozen add the beaten white of one egg.— 

Mrs H. A. I3«»yle 

Tame Grape Sherbcrh-Put two cupsful 
su'^ar and one cupful cold water in granite stew pan and 
let come to a boil; cool and add juice of two lemons and 
about one quart of grape juice, one-half cupfu' English 
walnuts; place in freezer and finish filling freezer with 
cream or sweet milk. This amount makes half a gallon; 
lavender color, In freezing use one measure of salt to 

two of ice. — Mrs. H II. 5fal lings. 

Strawberry Gr<»nite.-One pint strawberry 
juice, one pint orange juice one quart whole strawber- 
ries, three cupsful sugar, one quart water. Boil the 
sugar and water togather for five minutes, drop the 
whole strawberries 'nto this syrup. Lift them carefully 
with a skim Tier, place tham on a platter to cool, then 
add the syrup to the strawberry and orange juice. 
Strain while hot through a fine cloth; when cool, freeze 
quite hard, When frozen stir in the whole berries care- 
full, and serve in glasses. This makes about one gal- 
lon.— Mrs. tidier >. P>lake. 

Pineapple Sorbet -Boil together for 
twenty minutes, one pint sugar, one quart water, one 
pint grat d pineapple, add to this syrup ono-fourth pint 
lemon juice and one-half pint orange ji ice; whtn cold 
strain through a cheese cloth bag, (wet bag in cold water) 
Freeze for fifteen minutes. A sorbet is any kind of 
fruit ices half frozen so if you wish a Pineapple Ice use 
this recipe, and freeze until smooth. For Pineapple 
Sherbtrt use this renpe, but do not strain the syi-up. 
When the sherbert 's partly frozen add the whites of 



90. 
six egg, beaten very stiff, then complete the freezing — 

Mrs. t-o'ger M. Bluke. 

Or'an^C l<*e.— Steep the rinds of six oranges in 
one quart of water in one vessel, while you make a 
syrup of two cupsful sugar, boiled with one-half cup- 
ful water for fifteen minutes in another vessel. Skim 
the syrup, strain the v,-ater from the orange peel put 
the syrup and water together, let cool, add the juice of 
the oranges and freeze. The juice of a lemon added 
gives a more decided flavor. If the orange peel taste 
seems too strong, use only part of it and clear water for 
balance. — M rs. t. F. Oiii. 

Philiidelpliia Ice Crt;am.— (Apricot.) One 
quart of cream, three-fourths pint sugar, one quart can 
of apricots. Pat one-half of cream on to heat in double 
boiler, when hot add the sugar and stir until dissolved. 
Take from the fire, add the remaining half of the cream, 
which has been beaten and when cold freeze. Run the 
apricots through a collander and stir them into ihe 
frozen cream. Turn the crank rapidly for five minutes, 
then remove the dasher and pack. Serve in sherbert 
cups and garnish with candied cherries. — Mrs. Edgar N. 

Biake 

1 iitN hrui?!. — One quart rich cream, two 
ounces sweet almonds chopped fine, one cupful sugar, 
two-thirds cupful chopped raisins, citron, one cupful 
orange perserves. After you have half frozen the 
cream, almonds and sugar, add the other ingredients, 
mix well with the cream and freeze. Let stand two or 
three hours to ripen. — Mrs h:<!s«r n BK<k . 

Irish Cream. —One quart sweet milk, three 
eggs, one and one-half cupsful sugar, make a custard 
and pour over five cents worth each of almonds, En-dish 
walnuts, citron and raisins all cut up fine. Let stand 
over night and next day whip one quart cream. Add 
custard and freeze, — Mrs. s. E. v. shy. 

Chocolate ice Cream.— Grate two squares of 
chocolate into two quarts of new milk, placing ovtr 
water to boil. To six eggs and three teacupsful of 



yi. 

sM^ar, add two tablespoonsful of flour or corn starch, 
beat ten or fifteen minutes and strain through a sieve, 
add to the scalding milk and chocolate and carefully stir. 
When thickened, place in the freezer, adding a pint of 

milk. — Mrs. Jidijar N. Blake. 

Oanixii-rv Cream. -Use two-thirds of a 
cupful of smooth, thick cranberry sauce, which has been 
made very Svveet. Soak one-quarter of a package of 
granulated gelatine in four tablespoonsful of cold water, 
when soft, stand over hot water until dissolved, then 
mix with one pint of very thick sweet cream. As the 
cream chills and shows signs of stiffening 
whip steadily until the cream is a solid froth, add the 
cranberry, a spoonful at a time. When the pink mix- 
ture is quite thick, turn into a wetted mold and set 
away until firm. This may be frozBn by turning the 
mixture into a mold with a tightly fitting cover, binding 
the edges with a narrjw strip of muslin dippad in melt- 
ed lard or paraffi le and b irrying thi m )1J in a mixtare 
or equal parts of broken ice and coarse salt. That it 
may be frozen clear through, it should stand for from 
three to four hours in the ice and salt before serving. 

— \lr^. Edgar N. Blake. 

Caran^el I(*e Cream. -One pound brown 
sugar, melt like molasses, make custard of one-half 
dozen eggs and one-half gallon milk. Pour ovjr 
malted sugar. When cool add one pint rich cream, o\e 
cupful of nuts. Freeze and let stand a few hours be- 
fore using. — Mrs. Ouy ^i. Bavsin^er 

Cinnamon Ice Cream — Three pints of 
milk or cresm or both, six eggs, twelve ounces of sugar, 
one ounce of ground cinnamon, more or less, juice of 
two lemons. Form a custard with the milk or cream, 
sugar, eggs and spice in the usual manner. When ready 
treeze it. When nearly frozen; add the lemon juice and 
finish freezing. In all creams to which acid in any form 
is added, the juice should not be added until the cream 
is partly or nearly frozen. — virs. Ed§ar w. Biake. 

Lemon lc:e Cream.— One quart milk, half 
pint cream, three cu,-sful sugar, juice of three lemons; 



92. 

add the lemon juice after cream is about half frozen to 
prevent curdling. — Mrs. w. n. o'Brian. 

Orange Croc^m.— Juice of six oranges, two 
teaspoonsful extract orange, juice of one lemon, one 
quart of water, one pound of powdered sugar, one gill 
of rich, sweet cream, add all together and strain. 
Freeze same as ice cream. — Mrs. w. a. Brisjgs. 

Frozt'.n l^udding.— One cupful sugar, juice of 
six oranges, add this to one quart crushed strawberries. 
Cut the oranges into halves, take out the pulp, squeeze 
out the juice, saving the shells for serving. Add to the 
juices a pint of cold water. Freeze the mixture, stir- 
ring slowly. When frozen, beat the whites of two egg 5 
to a stiff froth, add a heaping tablespoonful powdere l 
sugar and beat until smooth. Stir this into the frui:, 
remove the dasher, repack, let stand an hour, serve m 
the orange shells or in dessert glasses with a tablespoon- 
ful of whipped cream on top— Mrs. Edgar N. Blake. 



f>ickles Marmalades and Sweet Pickles. 

(.hilli Suace.— One peck ripe tomatoes, one- 
half cupful salt, twelve large onions, five large green 
peppers, one quart of vinegar, one qu.irt brown sugar, 
two tablespoonsful cinnamon, one tablespoonful each of 
ground cloves, black pepper and red pepper. Run 
vegetables through the fine blade of meat chopper. Mix 
thoroughly and cook four hours. It will be smooth like 
catsup. This makes six quarts.— Mrs. e. L. l^obf.rts. 

C.h:lli ^auce.— Eighteen large tomatoes, ten 
large onions, eight large peppers (green or red), chop 
all medium fine, twelve cooking spoonsful sugar, three 
tablespoonsful salt, one handful whole cloves, cook until 
thick as desired, but not until ingredients can not be 
recognized. Seal whilehot. — .vsrs. I'jdg.ir :s. Bi..k«. 

Ch<>p|)('<l iirec.n Tomat.» Pickles. 

— Eight pounds of green tomatoes, chopped fine, add 
four p.unds of brown sugar. Boil thrte hours. Add 
a quart of vinegar, a teaspoonful each of cinnamon and 
cloves. Boil fifteen minutes and let cool and put into 
jars. Try this recipe once and you will try it again. — 

Mrs, Juitu Hnynor. 

Chow < hf>w.-Slice three large heads of cab- 
bage, eighteen onions and forty cucumbers one quart 
of small onions, one quart of small cucumbers, one 
quart of string beans left whole, one-half dozen each of 
green and and red peppers chopped. Put all in stone 
jar except peppers, salt w^ell and let stand over night. 
In the morning draw off the water and soak in weak 
v'negar fur a day or two, drain again and prepare the 
following mixtare. 0:i9-half pound white mustard seed, 
one ounce celery seed, one pint grated horse radish, 
one- half teacupful ground black pepper, one ounce 
tumeric, boil with five quarts of strong vinegar and two 
pounds of brown sugar. Pour over hot. repeat for three 
mornings. The last morning, mix one-half teacupful 
of mustard and one pint of salid oil and add to the 

mixture. — t\irs. iN. K.. B^ard^lfw. 



94. 

Greeri 'I'omcito Soy.— Two gallon of green 
tomatoes, sliced without pealing. Twelve good sized 
onions, sliced, one-half dozen green peppers cut fine, 
two quarts vinegar and one quart sugar, two table- 
spoonsful salt, two tablespoonsful each of ground mus- 
tard and black pepper, one tablespoonsful each of allspice 
and whole cloves tied in a cloth. Mix all together and stew 
until tender, stiring often lest they should scorch. Seal 
in small glass jars. Salt tomatoes and drain over night. 

— Mrs. M. C. Qoss, Wichita. Kans. 

Spanish l>i(*kles.— One-half dozen cucumber 
pickles, cue into small pieces, two or three dozen small 
silver onions, one small head of cabbage cut fine, two 
small heads of cauliflower. Soak onions, cabbage and 
cauliflower, over night, in weak salt water. One ounce 
each of white mustard seed, celery seed and ground 
mustard, one and three-fourths pounds of sugar, vinegar 
enough to cover, let come to a boil, pour over pickles 
while hot. Add spices to vinegar, when hot. Color 
with tumeric and put up air tight. — Airs. ti. m Wycofr, 

Jerseyville, III. 

CitOW Chow.— Two quarts green tomatoes, one 
good sized couliflower, three red peppers, two bunches 
of celery, one pound of sugar, one-ha'f teaspoonful each 
of black and red pepper, one-half ounce ground mus- 
tard one-half ounce white mustard seed, one tablespoon- 
ful celery seed, one and one-half pint small onions. Let 
onions stand in salt water twenty- four hours, cut in 
slices the tomatoes and red peppers, cut the celery very 
fine, break the cauliflower into small pieces; and let them 
stand in salt over night. In the morning heat one-half 
gallon of vinegar, add all the ingredients, when scald- 
ing hot set back on a cool place on the stove and let 
stand ten minutes. This will make about three quarts. 

— Miillie, B. Po^ucs, diiea^o, Hi. 

Mustard Pickir^s.— Twenty-four medium 
ripe cucumbers, one quart small onions, two cauliflowers, 
two quarts small green tomatoes, six green peppers, cut 
in small pieces and put in salt and water over night. 
Scald in the same water then drain and pat i i jars. 
Prepare the following dressing, pour over anu Sci*l. 



95. 

Dressing. —Three quarts vinegar, four cupsful 
brown sugar, four teaspoonsful celery seed, one table- 
spoonful tumeric, four tablespoonsful mustard, three- 
fourths cupful of flour. Put vinegar, sugar and celery- 
seed on the stove and when boiling add flour, mustard 
and tumeric, which has been dissolved in a little water. 
Cabbage may be used in place of cucumbers and cauli- 
flower. — MissLenora Lowi-j'. 

Last of the Garden.- (Mixed Pickles.) One- 
half gallon small cucumbers, one gallon green string 
bean, one pint butter beans, one-half dozen small musk- 
melons, six ears corn, one dozen carrots, two stocks 
celery, spice, one pint of sugar and vinegar. Cook soft 
and salt each article seperately, except the cabbage, 
cucumbers and muskmelons, these to be laid in salt 
water over night, then put all together, pour over vine- 
gar, and heat all together. — Mrs. n. L. Thoma*. 

Sweet Pickled Cucumbers.— One dozen 
large ripe cucumbers, peel them and cut in half, lenght- 
wise and lay in salt water over night. The next morn- 
ing wash in clear water. Put them in a kettje on the 
back of the stove, cover well with water in which has 
been desolved a lump of alum, enough to taste. Let 
simmer for two or three hours. When cool put in the 
filling and stew all together. 

Filling— Two pound raisins, two pounds of figs, one 
pound of citron; chop two pounds fresh peaches (canned 
will do), with the other fruit and do not chop as fine as 
mince meat. When the cucumbers are filled, place in 
the jar. Put one gallon of vinegar, six pounds sugar 
and one tablespoonful mace and of cloves, one teaspoon- 
ful of white gin":ar,boil for a few minutes and pour over 
the pickles for three mornings. — M»-s n, n. stoti*.. 

White Vinegar.— Fifteen gallon rain water, 
eleven pounds light brown sugar, one pint yeast dough, 
roll out and spread with sugar, roll up and tie in a num- 
ber of places and put in the liquid, keep warm and it 
will be vinegar in six weeks.— Mrs. f. m. cifne. 



96. 

tti§^lttty.-~Take one peck green tomatoes, eight 
large onions, chop fine and soak in salt water over 
night, Drain well and cover with good cider vinegar, 
into which put two tablespoonsful tumeric and eight 
green peppers (chopped fine) , and one cupful of sugar. 
The following spices tied in thin muslin bag: one table- 
spoonful each of ground cinnamon and allspice, one 
teaspoonful each of ground cloves and ground ginger; 

cook tender and bottle. — Mrs. Lee, Muilholand, Sundance, 
Wvo. 

Southern Catsup.— Half gallon of green 
cucumbers after being peeled and chopped, sprinkle 
with salt and let stand six hours, pour water from them 
and cover with hot vinegar. Prepare half gallon of 
cabbage the same. Chop one dozen small v»'hite onions, 
pour boiling water over them and let stand half hour. 
Chop one quart of green tomatoes, one pint tender 
green beans, one dozen green peppers and one dozen 
small young ears of corn, scald and drain. Mix two 
tablespoonsful grated horseradish, one teacupful of 
ground mustard, two cupsful of white mustard seed, 
ini ee tablespoonsful of tumeric, one each of ground 
mace, cinnamon, cayenne and celery seed, two table- 
spoonsful of olive oil and one pound of sugar, put in a 
jar with the prepared vegetables and pour over boiling 
vinegar to cover. — Mrs. c b. CmarY. 

Orange Marni(iSa<:le.--One dozen navel or 
Florida oranges, four lemons. Halve the oranges and 
scoop out the pulp. Squeeze lemon. Turn oranges inside 
out and scrape off all skin and fiber. Put orange peel 
through grinder, cover with cold water and bring to a 
good boil. Drain cover with water and bring to a good 
boil again and drain. Add pulp and juice and from three- 
fourths or as much sugar as there is rind ^ and pulp 
and juice. Boil twenty m.inutes or until it jells.— 

Mrs Marry Bwardslet!, Alton, Hi. 

Euchered l'*Iums.-Niiie pounds of blue 
plums, six pounds sugar, two quarts vinegar, and one 
ounce cinnaman; boil vinei^ar, sugar and spice together. 
Pour over p^ums. Draw off next morning and boil. 



97. 

Repeat the boilins>- five mornings, the last time boil 
fruit about twenty minutes, Seal in glass jars. — 

Mr.s, N. K. Beardslee. 

Preserved Pears.— To six pounds of pears, 
four pounds of sugar, the juice of two lemons and rind 
of one. Peal and quarter pears; place half the fruit in 
kettle, then half the sugar, next the other half of fruit 
and then the remaining sugar. Let stand awhile or put 
on back of stove till some of syrup forms. Take pears 
out when done and let syrup boil down. About twenty 
raintues before canning, add the lemon and return fruit 
to syrup tj thoroughly heat again before bottling. — 

Mrs. Le!a Beardsiee Bull, Jer.se.y ville, II . 

Plum Sauce.— Five pounds of plums, five 
pounds of sugar, two oranges and one pound of raisins. 
Use large blue freestone plums. Take seeds out and 
weigh them. Put a little water on with the sugar and 
make a syrup. Put in the plums and seeded raisins 
and let them boil forty-five minutes. Fifteen minutej 
before they are done add the grated rind and juice 

of oranges. — Mrs. t:harle.s Keith, Denver, t olo. 

Spiced Grapes. — To spice grapes, measure 
skins and]palp{and to every seven pounds allow three and 
a half pounds of sugar, half a pint of grape juice and 
a pint of cider vinegar. Bo.l together half an hour, 
then add one tablespoonf ul ground cloves and two of cin- 
namon, Cookfuntil thick enough to be moled. Pour in 
cups or marmalade jars and seal like jelly. — sirs, liid^ar 

N. BJake. 

Gingered Pears.— Use firm pears, peel, core 
and halve. Have a syrup made of three-fourths pound 
of sugar to each pound of fruit, for eight pounds of 
fruit use six pounds sugar, the juice and rind of four 
lemons, one pint water, and one-half pound of rringer 
root, (the green if possible) sliced thin. Boil the slices 
and scraped ginger root in the pint of water for twenty 
minutes, add the sugar, boil ten minutes and skim, then 
put in the fruit, which has been previously pared and 
dropped in cold water to prevent it's turning black. 
Cut the lemons in long thin strips, and cook altogether 



slowly until the pears are tender. Pack the pears in 
jars and fill each jar up to the brim with syrup, put on 
the rubbers and screw on the tops as tight as possible. 
Be careful when the jars are cold to tighten them still 
further before you set them away. Divide the pieces 
of lemon peel and ginger equally among the jars. This 
is a most delicious and rich preserve and is especially 
nice when served like preserved ginger, with ice cream. 

— Mrs. J J. CJorlaeh. 

Spiced Pears.-Two quarts sugar, and one 
quart vinegar. Boil and skim well, then add onetable- 
spoonf-l of cloves and stick c'nnamon; when boiled add 
two gallons of pears, previously peeled and laid in cold 
water. Cook until hot thorugh, then take out pears 
and put in cans, and then pour in the boiling syrup, 

dividing spices. — Mrs. W. K Cariin.Jer^^yville, III. 



99 



Candies. 

For home candy-making, it is well worth while to 
master the art of boihng sugar so as to make the fine, 
soft or filled candies. As boiled sugar is extremely 
sensitive to atmospheric moisture, it is best to choose 
a bright, clear day, when the air is dry. Boil a pound of 
sugar with a scant cupful of water, stirring a little un- 
til the sugar melts, but on no account afterwards. (If 
a chocolate fondant is desired at this point, mix with 
the syrup a quarter of a pound of chocolate, reduced to 
a paste as usual. ) Let the whole boil gently and con- 
stantly for about ten minutes. As the chief secret of 
candy-making consists in boiling the sugar to the exact 
degree required, iti must be closely watched toward 
the last. Try it by carefully dipping a fork occasional- 
ly. When the syrup forms a drop at the end of the fork, 
it must boil longer, but if it hairs— that is draws out — 
take up a little in a spoon and drop into a bowl of cold 
water. If it holds together, so that it can be gathered 
into a little ball between the fingers, remove from the 
fire and set the sauce pan carefully aside to cool. 
Shake as little as possible and put it in a dry place, 
and it must not stand in the wind or a strong draft. If 
these precautions are not taken, it may granulate and 
have to be boiled over again. 

When cool enough to bear the hand, begin stir- 
ring, and when too stiff to stir with a wooden spoon, pour 
out on board and knead and work with the hands like 
dough. The soft, elastic mass should be as smooth as 
butter, and not unlike firm butter in consist- 
ency. In a covered jar it will keep for weeks, and by 
slightly melting a little at a time in a bowl set in boiling 
water, it may be flavored at v/ill and made up in an im.- 
mense variety of forms, to suit the most exacting taste. 

Wafers — Melt fondant as above, flavor with two 
or three drops of oil of peppermint, wintergreen or cin- 
namon and drop in small round wafers on paper. Make 
peppermint white, v/intergreen pink and cinnamon 
brown by slightly coloring with chocolate. 



•n «#, 



100 

Walnut Creams. -Roil a piece of white fondant 
into a ball about one inch in diameter and press half a 
walnut meat firmly into each side. If hickorynuts are 
used, make balls smaller. 

Nuts and Fruit Creams.— Almonds, pecans, 
filberts and peanuts, stoned dates, figs and citron cut in 
slices, candied cherries, etc., make delicious creams by 
simply placing thtm inside a ball or cone of fondant 

— Mrs. Ed^ar N. Blake, 

Cre£kUl lj.andy. -Two cupsful sugar, three- 
fourths cupful of water, two tablespoonsf ul glucose, boil 
until it forms a soft ball, when cool stir until soft and 
creamy. Mold in desired shapes.— Mrs, Paut Meliinger. 

Uncooked tandy — Take the white of one eg;g 
and as much water as egg, measure carefully, thtn stir 
in powdered sugar until st ff as can be stirred, then 
take on to a board and kneai as bread until creamy. 
Flavor to suit taste and mold any shape desired.— Mrs. 

J. Thomas. 

MoIassdS Candy. -One pint N. 0. mollasses, 
one-half pint brown sugar, one tablespoonful vinegar, 
two tablespoonsful melted butter, one tablespoonful 
vanilla. Boil until it hardens in cold water, add pinch 
of soda. Cool in buttered pans and pull until yellow. 
This may be used to pour over nuts.— M i s s Corne.iia 

kSewfon, Jt^rsKvville, III. 

iVlolasf^ej* Taffy.— One cupful of molasses* 
two cupsful brown sugar, let boil, until a little dropped 
in cold water becomes hard, remove from the stove, 
stir in thoroughly one heaping teaspoonful of soda, let 

cool and pull. — Mary PaUoa 

Brown 8u"^ar Cream Ccindy.- Two cups- 
ful brown sugar covered with water, let boil until a 
little dropped in cold water becomes brittle. Let cool 
and pull imti! it becomes like tafCy. It is very nice with 
Englisli walnuts added, — Marv PaHon. 



101 

Divinity.— Three pints sugar, one pint corn 
syrup, one and one-half pints cream, mix all together 
and cook over a slow fire in a broad shallow kettle until 
it will form a firm soft ball when dropped in cold water. 
Take from the fire and stir, after stirring a few 
minutes, add a pound of almonds, which have previously- 
been blanched, sliced or chopped and thorou'vhly dried. 

— Mrs, F. M Cline.. 

PepperiBint Wafers.-Two cupsf ul granula- 
ted sugar, one-half cupful cold water, boil until it spins 
a thread, add a few drops of peppermint and whip until 
white and drop on buttered tins size of a half dollar. 

— Mrs. r. L. O' Bryan. 



102 



Beverages. 

"Wfth many a cup and m«&v a Amiie th« festal mooi^ufs we baSutle" 

Old Colonial Punch.— For eight quarts, take 
nine lemons, twelve limes, three oranges, a pineapple, 
eighteen spoonsful sugar, grate peel of the limes, lem- 
ons and oranges remove the v^hite pith and slice the 
fruit, pour one quart of hot water over, cover, stand in 
ice chest for twenty-four hours, then strain, add one 
quart of shaved ice, one quart of grape juice, one quart 
of Maraschino cherries, put the bowl in a larger one of 
chopped ice. In the absence of limes use lemons. 

Golden Slipper.— To make this attractive drink, 
allow for each guest peel from one lemon which should 
be cut in long pieces, put in a tall, thin glass, add half 
a bottle of ginger ale, shaved ice and fill with seltzer 
water. Two straws are placed in each glass, then the 
lemon peel is wound about so as to be the length of the 
glass, the knob formed by the stem end is caught on 
the rim. The peel must be cut as free from tough white 
inner skin as is x)ossible. 

Iced Coffee.— Make strong coffee, place shaved 
ice in tall, thin glasses, add one heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, pour hot coffee over, place a tablespoonf ul of 
whipped cream on top. Allow for each guest two table- 
spoonsful of finely ground coffee. For each cupful of 
coffee use yolk and shell of one e^g. Mix all in bowl, 
add one cupful of cold water, then add six cupsf ul fresh- 
ly boiled v/ater, set on fire to boil about five minutes, 
put back to settle, adding quarter cupful of cold water. 
This makes a very strong coffee, which will he weaken- 
ed by the shaved ice. 

Hot Coffee.-- Scald a granite coffee pot, wash an 
egg, break and beat .slightly, dilute with one-half cup- 
ful of cold water, add the crushed shell and mix with a 
cupful of finely ground coffee. Turn into^the coffee pot. 

Pour on six cupsf ul of boiling water and stir thoroughly, 
'lace on front ox range and boil three minutes. If not 



.103 

boiled coffee is clouded. If boiled to long to much tan- 
nic acid is developed. The spout of the pot should be 
covered or stuffed with soft paper to prevent the escape 
of the fragrant aroma. Stir and pour some in a cup, 
to be sure that the spout is free from grounds. Serve 
very hot with whipped cream and sugar. 

Iced Tea,— Make a strong tea, (English Break- 
fast is my favorite tea) then dilute to the desired 
strength. Stand away in stone jar to cool, when cold 
it is ready to serve. Have ready plenty of cracked ice, 
fill glasses half full of ice then fill up with the tea. 
Serve in tall glasses on small plates, with loaf sugar and 

sliced le ..OnS. — Mrs. fld^ar IJ^. Biako. 

Grape fU!<^e.— To prepare the grape juice cut 
the bunches of grapes a little, trimming off superfluous 
stems and taking out the unsound berries. Put in a 
graniteware or porcelain lined kettle, covering with 
water for two or three inches. The proportion of water 
is about three quarts to eighteen pounds of fruit. Cook 
until the grapes burst and the juice exudes, crushing oc- 
casionally, with a wooden spoon. Put a collander over 
a large jar and cover with a square of cheese cloth, 
turn fruit and juice into this, drain, mxeasure and re- 
turn to a clean preserving ketttle. Let it come to a 
boil and skim. Nov/ add sugar to taste (a half cupful 
to each quart is a good proportion) stir until dissolved 
then cook five minutes, skimming carefully. Have 
ready cans or bottles sterilized and heated in pans of 
billing water. Fill with the hot juice, then seal. If 
bottles are enmployed be sure the corks are sterilized 
as well as the bottles themselves, Keep in a cool, dark 
place. If preferred the grapes may be cooked without 
water, then diluted v/hen ready to drink.— \i r».j s. 

Stallin'fjs, St. Louis, Mo. 

Unfern^entcd Qrape juice PuiuJi. 

—One Gallon Mixture.— Put in a punch bowl (with a 
piece of ice,) the juice of one-half dozen lemons one- 
third dozen oranges, cut in slices, one can of pineapples, 
three quarts of unfermented grape juice, one quart of 
apollinaris or carbonated water. Stir the above ingre- 



104 
dients thoroughly and serve in fancy goblets with fruit. 

— Mrs. Geo, iVl. tlamtton. 

Cranberry Punch.— in cooking cranberries 
when only sauce is wanted, add extra water, after strain- 
ing add sugar, little lemon juice and cracked ice. Serve 
in glasses. Any other fruit juices may be added if they 
are handy. — Mrs I1. » sfaiiings. 



105 



Luncheons and Dinners. 
Luncheon 

<{fveii by 
Mesdames Davis and Muag. 

Clear Boullion with Whipped Cream 
Salted Wafers 
Veal Loaf Aspic Jelly- 

Potato Chips 
Fruit Salad with Mayonaise 
Sandwiches Olives 



Ice Cream with Pecans 
Cake Mints Coffee 



Luncheon 

S'ven by 
Mrs. Guy B. Baysin^er. 

Creamed Chicken Tomato Aspic Jelly- 
Salmon Loaf Cheese balls 



Bread and Butter Sandwiches 
Caramel lea Cream Cake 



Luncheon 

§iven by 
iVIesdames Cline and Laune. 

Fruit ReHsh 



Veal Loaf Cheese Straws 
Pickles Olives 

Cream Potatoes 



Bannana Salad Wafers 



Ice Cream Cake 

Coffee 



106 
Pink and White t>eception 

§iven by 

Mesdames Appelget, Walterhouse and Hulse. 

Creamed Chicken in Pattie Shells 
Saratoga Chips Olives Hot Rolls 

Marsh Mallow Pudding with Whipped Cream 
Angel Food Pink and White Layer Cake 

Hot Coffee 
Mint Wafer Salted Almonds 



8even O'clock Dinner 

ijivt-n by 
Miss French. 



Blue Points 



Cream of Celery Soup 
Olives Salted Nuts 

Sherry 

Smothered Chicken French Peas 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 

Cranberry Frappe 

Chicken Salai 
Wafers Cheese 



Neapolitan Ice Cream 
Cake. 

Coffee 



I ndex. 

PAGE. 

Directions . . _ _ q — 7 

Miscellaneous - - . _ 7 

Table of Comparative Measures - - 8 

Time Table for Roasting Meats and Fish - 8 

Time Table for Boiling Meats - - 8 

Soup - - - - - 9—13 

Bread, Biscuits and Rolls - - 14— 20 

Fish - - - - - 21— 24 

Meats - - . - - 25- 31 

Fish and Meat Sauces - - - 32— 34 

Poultry and Game _ . . 35 — 38 

Salads 39— 43 

Salad Dressings - _ _ . 44— 45 

Entrees 46— 50 

Sandvviches - . - _ _ 51 — 54 

Vegetables ----- 55— 60 

Eggs ----- 61- 63 

Cheesa ----- 64 — 65 

Pastry 65— 70 

Cakes 71- 77 

Cake Fillings and Frostings - - 78— 82 

Puddings and Miscellaneous Desserts - 83 — 88 

Frozen Desserts - - - 89— 92 

Pickles, Marmalades and Sweet Pickles - 93 — f8 

Candies 99-101 

Beverages . . . . 102—104 

Luncheons and Dinners - - - 105 — 106 



Always the Same 




elt ilk* M \}mj 



o 






THING 
TO LEAN 




It is not the Cook "but the WomarQ behind the 
Cook"- who rules the world. When cooks fail and 
servants fail and everythiu:^- else fails there is 

SHREDDED WHOLE WHE^T 

for the Housekeeper to lean u pon iu every emergency. 
Ready-cooked, ready-to-serve, it contains all ol the whole 
wtieat, bteaia-cooked and diuwn into fine porous shreds 
so that the stomach may easily take up all its strength- 
givin<2- properties. 

Heated in the oven, Shreilded Wheat Biscuit is de- 
licious, for breakfast with milk or cream. Recipes for 
miiiiug many wholesome and palatable combinations 
\vith fresh fruit or, creamed veretfbles or meats will be 
found iu this book ^.-rrr^^"'"™'^'^ " - „<& 



SHR3 0DED WHEAT 

BIS ;UIT and TiiL-i- 

CUIT (the Slireddjd 

Wheat Wafer) are '■■: 

made by the National -; 

Food Company at Ni- '< , 

agra Falls in the clean- ^*S. ''^-^S^ 

est and ^ most hygienic ,-'- 

factory in the world. 

Our new cookbook is 

s-^nt free for the asking 



"it's All in the Sliretis 



It is ESSENTIAL that you have GOOD WORK 
done iu the iustallatiou of jour plumbiug system as 
well as 4 grade tixtures. 

The IM PC HI ANT POINT IS GOOD WORK. A 
largf part of every plumbiug system is the concealed 
work. Just here is where REALLY GOOD WOH.K 
means health aud cleanliness; while poor woik, eitiier 
fiom lack of kuowledg of .sanitary laws, unskilled lubor, 
I or willful disrej^ar I of just common honesty, leaves a 
breeding place for filth and disease 

By A grade we mean fixtures that are guaranteed 
to you against defects in the enamelini.-^; that is. the 
fixture will be repliced t^bould the enamel scale or crack 
within a given jteriod. 

These are things foi- you to remember when you 
have them both equipj-ed, We are glad to oi^e you, 
at any time, an estimate on the cost of sanitary plumb- 
ing. 

BoiXE Bros., 

Sanitary Plumbers. 



J. W. via^ee Lumber Co. 

Dealers in all kinds of 



SATISFACTIO^^ GUAKANTIEED. 



"When you want a square deal call on them — you will 
not be disappointed. 



ART NEEDLE WORK 
EMPORIUM 

MRS. H. L. THOMAS. PROP. 

Latest ideas ia all kiada of hand work. Open for in- 
spection at 

THOMAs' DRUG STORE. I 

DEALER IK 

I 

I Hardware ^ Furniture 



Woodward OkU. 



i 



N. K. BEARDSLEE 

GROCERIES, NOTIONS, FRESH 
FRUITS, CANDY AND NUTS. 

PHONE 30- 



m\mm m umnu 



tLovLkea furnished complete at prices to suit purchaser. 



Embalmer and Undertaker. 

Complete line oi supplies, 
Woodward, Okla. 



JOHN GARVEY PRCS. CHAS H, MARTIN. VlCE-PRES. 

J. W. MARTIN. Cashier. 



CENTRAL EXCHANGE 
BANK. 



WOODWARD, OKLAHOMA. I 



LADIES~~you should buy the best groceries. 



n 

'' Kin § Parrot" 

Brand 

Canned Goods 

and Spices 

are the best— conform to all Pure Food Laws. | 
Call for them at your Grocers. 



i 



Take No Other* 



Qei the liabit 

It petys to Trad© Witla 




Woodward's Exclusive Clothier and Gents 
Furnisher. 



R E. DAVIS, A. C, DAVIS g 



R. E. Davis Drug Co. 



t 



WOODWARD. OKLA. 
Phond 40 



YORK-KEY'S 

I For ElvortjtlninO 

Satisfaction or your money back. 
iVlAliTKNSON & K^AYNOa 

'^^General Merchandiser 

"What others advertise we sell for less." 



i 



I 



We handle all kinds of Building Material. 




C K. Luce Lumber ^. 

WoodwiirtS, Okl ; 



QEIRfi4C5lt|-H01?KlisaS 



ISiEf^G/4!SS~liiE 0;t). 



nOOllfVAliSS OKI. A. 



Distributors of Bargains 

Womens l^eady-to-wear; Mens Furnishings 

Dry sToods, and Notions, 

Hats, Caps and Shoes. 



ROBT. MOODY, JOHN J. GERLACH, L. H. PATTON, 

Vice Presidrnt, President. Cashier 

GEO. GERLACH, Vice President, W. V. SHY, Asst. Cashier. 

1893— OLDEST BANK IN WOOD WARD COUNTY— 1907 

THE GERLACH BANK 

WE SHOW TOU 

Capital $50,000.00 

Surplus 15,000.00 

Undivided Profits 15,000.00 

Stockholders' Liability 50.000.00 

Total $130,000.00 

COUNTY AND CITY DEPOSITORY, 
WE ISSUE MONEYORDERS, AMERICAN BANKING ASSOCIATION FORM 

CALL AKD SEE OUR SAVINGS BANKS. 

Interest paid on Time Certifi( a*ep of Deposit, larjre or sma'l. Every ac- 
commocai ion extended consistent with safe and conservative banking. 

WE SOLICIT TOUR BUSINESS. 

WOODWARD OKLAHOMA. 



«^' > }. M. SELF 

f they are new and clean, easy to cook and good to 
eat. Once a customer, always a customer. Give 
him your business and be happy. 

Phono 2 ! 7 



JHTT and WOOlS) 



Wholesale Grocers 



WICHITA. KANS. 



The 
Harvest Home Brand 



Is the Best in the Land. 



CANNED GOODS & (PICES OF ALL KINDS 
Try Them aid Yoj will want none other. 



ALIVR, AWAKE, 
Courteous to all- 

First National Bank 

WOODWARD, OKIaA. 

Inveptigate our Savings Department. 



WE CANT COOK 

but we can 

SUPPLY YOU WITH 1 



and 

.... . ,.,^r-.., TOSUITYCUR 

MILL WORK TASTE 
C. E. SHARP LUMBER CO. 



KftNDY KlTCHeN 

FOR 

COLORED SUGARS, CANDIES FRESH FRUITS 
AND NUTS. 

DUGGIN BliOTHEliS 

DEALERS IN 

Groceries* FreSli 

Krtiits KLtG* 

Phone 38 



USEL 



r\ 



m 



^RS CRUSHE 
OATS 



THE GREAT WESTERN CEREAL COMPANY 
CHICAGO, U. S. A. 



[FAd'03 



\^ 



- — . ^ 

Practical 

and 

Dainty Recipes 



Luncheons 

and 

Dinner Giving 

in 
Woodward, Oklahoma. 




/\ 



\'V4 



1^ 



