Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 






!?Ss£3?S£ 






: : &fi'>r:V 



-At 



si". 

Si?''' 



.;V.'j?^i-'-i'>i.."- 



^ 












IS 












l I C^ GZ, Jp Q^UX w ^ 



3- 




*^~ f U' yw./l 



Jf 



:3!!::'J5« s .-::i 






itu-i;-;'..: ; 

■::;-^:i:;i;:;|j 

"•:::.•;■ • ; ::!:.;| 






•".:»■•.'& 



•*ii;; 



**.•*': 



;;».. *'•■ 



■ I.* *. , 



iJ?:::i:l!il53i 



\ 



;;::::;;yj 



A\ 



Mz 



O 



\<2Jrc 



-T - r ■ '" 



1 

I I 



I 



r ~^-— — w— » ■ "» 



'■7 



Suppers 



NOVEL SUGGESTIONS FOR SOCIAL 
OCCASIONS 



•» * 

# «* * «* 
«» ~» .*_ «**. 



*•» - - 



x> 



• * • 

• * 



• ****• * 
• - * « 

«• w 



Compile R£ '-^Ar „ ; 

PAUIiVfil^RfcE 

Editor and Publisher of What to Eat, the National Food Magazine, • 
Superintendent of Foo<t Exhibits at the St. Louis Worlds's Fair. 
Honorary Commissioner of foods at the Jamestown Expositidnr ";•• * 






. .* • • * . 

* • * a 



• -.•■" • 



* ••••• 
- • • # * 



***** 




223215B 

A'-t ::, i ;:"'.':: and 

T.LDEN !■♦ . "JATiONS 
K 1943 L 



• • 





*-• • • 


m 




• ^ • • • • 


m 
• 




•• • • • 












• • • • 






• • * 






• 




• 


• 




• 


• 




• 






• 
• 


• •* • 




a 


• • • . • 






• ••:•':'••.■ 


• 




• • ••• • • 






z • • 


• 




• •-• • 


• 




• • • 


« 




••••. 


» 




• 




• 






• 


* 



PAUL PIERCE 



• • • 



• •• . 



• • 






• ".V. 

_ • 



• • 



^T<^ 






* 



To the Aristocracy of America. 

To that much abused, but very eminent class, the 
society women of America, this book is dedicated. It is 
with a realization that they constitute the better half of 
the best aristocracy in the world — probably the only 
real aristocracy of the present day. It is an aristocracy 
of real merit entree to which is attained by achievement, 
not by mere inheritance. No titles are inherited there ; 
they are bought with effort and accomplishments. It 
is an aristocracy of the fittest, not of chance birth. Out 
of the competition is growing a higher and higher 
standard for each succeeding generation, and hence it 
is an aristocracy of ascent and not of descent. 

Suppers are the favorite social function of the Amer- 
ican aristocrats. Hence it is with the highest esteem of 
their station, and the honor they reflect on the nation 
that this humble volume is recommended to their 
especial protection and favor. 







Publisher's Announcement. 

So scant is the information regarding suppers that it 
has been almost impossible for the host or hostess to ob- 
tain authentic knowledge regarding these functions ex- 
cepting through actual experience as a guest, and even 
then the prevailing ignorance has led to many erroneous 
conceptions causing deplorable awkwardness. The pub- 
lication of this volume was decided upon only after a 
search of libraries and bookshops everywhere revealed 
such a woeful dearth of information on suppers and the 
fact that such information as was obtainable was often 
misleading and in many cases positively ridiculous. 
There is no social function that lends itself so admirably 
for a high class entertainment as the supper. 

This volume, therefore, will fill a vacuum in the 
needs of society ; it will supply a long felt want of both 
men and women, who often, so often, have worried over 
the proper forms and menus for suppers. The book is 
complied by Paul Pierce, publisher of What To Eat, 
The National Food Magazine, an international author- 
ity on all subjects pertaining to dinings and other social 
functions. Mr. Pierce is the Compiler of Dinners and 
Luncheons," "Parties and Entertainments," "Break- 
fasts and Teas," and "Weddings and Wedding Cele- 
brations," to which "Suppers" is a companion. All the 
other volumes will be found most helpful to the man or 
woman who entertains on a large or small scale. 



CONTENTS 

Chapter I. Chafing Dish Suppers — Chafing Dish 
Cooking and Serving — Chafing Dish Chat — A 
Chafing Dish Supper — A Chafing Dish Party — 
Over the Chafing Dish. 

Chapter II. German, Dutch and Bohemian Suppers 
— Some Queer German Suppers — A Dutch Sup- 
per — Bohemian Supper for Men — The Dutch 
Supper. 

Chapter III. Entertaining in the Modern Apart- 
ment — A Little Sunday Night Supper — tStag 
Suppers — A Bachelor Supper. 

Chapter IV. Suppers for Special Occasions — Danish 
Valentine Supper — iA Hallowe'en Ghost Hunt — 
A Hallowe'en Supper — Hallowe'en Supper 
Menus — A Pie Party for Thanksgiving Season — 
The Pie Shelf — Birthday Suppers — Birthday 
Party. 

Chapter V. Miscellaneous Suppers — Camping Par- 
ties and Clambakes — Nutting Party — Harvest 
Home Supper — Autumn Suppers — Dickens' Sup- 
per — Boston Supper Party — Yachting Party — 
Butterfly Supper — Young Married Couples' Sup- 
per — Head Dress Supper Party — Quilting Sup- 
per — Wedding Supper — Waffle Supper — The 
Bohemian Picnic Supper — Railroad Party — Lit- 
erary Supper — Peanut Party — Folk Lore Supper 



Contents 

— Cake Walk Supper — Bridge Whist Supper — 
After Theatre Menus — A Cold Supper Menu 
for Hot Weather. 

Chapter VI. Toasts — Stories for Suppers. 



\ 



PHOPl;'.;",' Or \."i 
CITY OF NCW YU.iX. 

CHAPTER I. 

Chafing Dish Suppers — Chafing Dish Cooking 
and Serving — Chafing Dish Chat — A Chaf- 
ing Dish Supper — A Chafing Dish Party — 
Over the Chafing Dish. 

In serving the most simple of chafing-dish suppers, 
it would seem as though the novice had a million things 
to remember and a thousand duties to follow in quick 
succession. She is the cynosure of all eyes. With what 
grace and tact she may discharge her pretty duties, or 
with what awkwardness and evident distaste, none but 
a "chafing" audience can really appreciate. Charming 
and at home on every other occasion, the most finished 
society woman frequently feels completely lost in this 
unwonted dipping into domestic service. 

Perhaps one of the most embarrassing moments is 
when, the company assembled, unconsciously expectant 
and usually most flatteringly interested, the hostess pre- 
pares to fill and light the little lamp whose flickering 
flame begins the ceremony. If the hostess is wise and 
conversation seems to flag at this interesting moment, 
she will promptly start the ball rolling and relieve jthe* J 
tension by some extemporaneous remark, some light iei 
that will at least temporarily distract the attepitjoiafdl 
the merry assemblage. But this over, therje.is/^KlT.the 
inconvenient delay before the water heats, tire Jbutter 
splutters and the real preparing of the supper lVbegun, 
and remembering this and the embarassing interval, 



_ j ■* j 






J w J J 



1 

I 



8 Suppers 

even at the most informal supper the chafing-dish course 
should be preceded by a little appetizer, or, to speak 
more correctly, diverter, which will form a pleasant 
interlude, occupy in part the attention of the guests and 
tend to promote the success of her favorite dish by al- 
lowing her to proceed in its preparation undisturbed by 
haste or excitement. 

For this purpose something most appropriate to the 
supper must be served, in order that, as according to 
the customs in ancient Rome, the piece de resistance 
may be emphasized and the appetite whetted, not cloyed 
by the introductory viands. 

Before the favorite Welsh rarebit, so rarely thought 
of in any combination but with ale and indigestion, 
anchovy sandwiches garnished with water cress will be 
found delicious, or sardines, chilled in lemon juice, and 
offered with inch wide sandwiches of buttered Boston 
brown bread may be served. Iced shaddock pulp, 
flavored with Maraschino, is an excellent introduction 
to creamed chicken. Egg lemonade, clam cocktail, raw 
oysters with stuffed mangoes, or some such light course 
can all be easily prepared beforehand, and should be 
served most daintily, individually, in order that no 
.rapacious collegiate may inadvertently regale himself 
jvifh ja second helping, and thereby too early spring the 
cpjQnWan^trap so adroitly set for later refections. 
'.••••• .•'X^fc^Jamp lighted and this first course passed, the 
hos*ttstf tf&y*2t least be sure of a short interval in which 
to make her preparations. Have everything ready be- 
forehand — the rest is easy. Why there should be so 



• • 






• :•••• • 

• •• • 

••• 



Suppers 9 

much excitement over the cooking of an ordinary rare- 
bit, a creamed chicken, a souffle of oysters or all this 
terrible excitement about a lobster Newberg or a simple 
cheese fondue is beyond comprehension. 

The first ambition of the young hostess seems to be 
a rarebit, possibly because its frequent introduction 
at stag suppers makes it a great favorite with her men 
friends. Rarebits are avowedly hard to make, and the 
recipes are legion, but whatever formula you use, 
whether you use cream, ale, beer, curry or Tobasco, 
never fail to add two half-beaten eggs for each pound 
of cheese, and serve the minute it reaches a creamy con- 
sistency. This principle followed, your rarebit woes will 
vanish, and the fame of your chafing dish will be 
heralded abroad. 

Unless you are really an experienced cook, it is un* 
wise to attempt too complicated a dish, but a little prac- 
tice will soon put you quite at ease, and a little thought 
will enable you to serve your Sunday-night supper or 
a midnight lunch quite as easily this way as any other. 

We are most of us familiar enough with simple cook- 
ing to prepare any ordinary dish, and without entering 
into a list of formulae, the following suggestions will 
be found all sufficient: 

Ham, oyster, bacon, cheese, potato, jelly, celery or 
preserved fruit omelets ; scrambled eggs ; curried oysters 
or chicken ; minced ham or minced tongue souffle ; fried 
shad roe, calves brains, chops, sausages or sardines; 
creamed chicken with mushrooms, creamed sweetbreads, 
liver, bacon, lobster, oysters, cold boiled fish of all 



io Suppers 

kinds ; fried oyster, clam, corn, pineapple, peach, orange 
or banana fritters (fried in butter) ; cheese fondue, 
Welsh rarebit, sardines in cheese sauce, or any other 
simple little dish your fancy may dictate. With such 
an array as this to choose from, and a hundred other 
equally simple dishes in reserve, is it possible for any one 
to despair over the impossibilities of the chafing dish 
and its limited qualifications for a quick, hot supper? 

Chafing Dish Chat. 

While recipes for chafing dish cookery abound, the 
little hints which make all the difference between suc- 
cess and failure in the concoction of any given dish are 
usually omitted. 

The chafing dish novice is usually obliged to learn 
them by that hardest of all teachers, experience. 

To ameliorate this difficulty, the following sug- 
gestions are given: 

Have plenty of alcohol on hand to avoid the possi- 
bility of the lamp's going out just before some dish is 
completed, otherwise, if you are a man, you may be 
tempted to use language almost warm enough to cook 
the ingredients. 

If your chafing dish lamp has not been used for some 
time, pour only a little alcohol into it at first, let it 
stand, and then fill it up. 

If obliged to refill the lamp in the process of cooking, 
do not do it while the lamp is very hot, as the igniting 
point of alcohol is low* 



Suppers 1 1 

Do not fill up your lamp until ready to use it, as 
alcohol evaporates very rapidly. 

Have a metallic tray underneath the chafing dish. 

Do not blow the flame to extinguish it, or it may fly 
back at you and scorch your eyebrows and lashes. Put 
it out with a little extinguisher that comes with the 
lamp. 

Almost everything can be cooked without the hot 
water pan, and thus one-half the time can be saved in 
making your dish. 

Raise the pan from the flame if it becomes too strong. 

Never leave the alcohol bottle uncorked, on account 
of the odor of the alcohol and also to avoid the possi- 
bility of its catching fire. 

Should the contents of the bottle ignite, clap your 
hand over its mouth. This will extinguish the fire at 
once. 

Use^wooden spoons for stirring, as they do not scratch 
the dish. 

Almost anything that can be cooked in a sauce pan 
on the stove can be cooked in the chafing dish. 

Have everything you need for your dish on the table 
before you begin to cook, and if possible have every in- 
gredient, except the seasonings, measured. 

One level tablespoonful of butter when melted is 
usually enough to cover the bottom of the chafing dish. 

Do not use too much sherry in making Lobster New- 
berg, for alcohol, when used in cooking, tends to make 
fish or flesh tough. 



1 



12 Suppers 

Remember in measuring out the sherry that you are 
preparing a dish, not concocting a drink. 

The sherry should not be instantly recognized ; there 
should be just a hint of its flavor. 

When your disfi is completed, serve it from the 
chafing dish. If, however, you prefer turning it out on 
a platter, garnish the edges of the same with watercress 
or parsley. 

Last, but not least, save the best and brightest story 
you have heard during the week, to relate at the chafing 
dish supper. 

A Chafing Dish Supper. 

A chafing dish supper menu must necessarily be 
confined to those dishes which are the hosts' or hostess* 
specialty — Welsh rarebit, panned or creamed oysters, 
shellfish, eggs or meats. The very informality of a 
chafing dish supper is its charm, the guests sitting at the 
table while the dishes are prepared. Decide upon the 
chief dish and have everything possible prepared in the 
kitchen and ready to use at the table, the cheese or meat 
cut into dice, the bread or crackers toasted, the in- 
gredients measured and in glasses or cups and all uten- 
sils ready to use. Decorate the table with centerpiece 
and plate mats or large white cloth with bowl of flowers 
or fruits in the center. Do not have many candles or 
decorations on the table as these will interfere with the 
preparation of dishes. Have the chafing dish or dishes 
at one end of the table and some hostesses have a 
higher chair in which to sit while they preside over the 



Suppers 13 

chafing dish. Have the salad, trays or platters with 
sandwiches and coffee machine if you make coffee at the 
table, placed conveniently by those who prepare these 
articles of food. Suppose you are to serve panned 
oysters, on squares of toast, lettuce salad, bread and 
butter sandwiches and coffee, or Welsh rarebit, potato 
salad and coffee and sandwiches. Any of these is a 
good menu as you will not want sweets or ice cream at 
such a supper. 

For safety place your chafing dishes on metal trays 
and do not fill the lamp too full. Many hostesses pre- 
fer to have their ingredients on the table in bowls which 
will not break and on Japanese trays and use wooden 
spoons for stirring as they do not become hot, and do 
not scratch the dishes. As food is served directly from 
the chafing dish to the plates and the object is to have 
everything very hot, garnishings are not necessary. The 
water pan placed under the cooking pan will keep 
things hot after the flame is extinguished. Two chafing 
dishes come in very handy in keeping the toast and hot 
water hot while the main dish is being prepared. 

Have a pile of hot plates at hand and have someone 
place the toast on the plate and hand it to the hostess 
who serves from the chafing dish. While she is doing 
this, have someone at the other end of the table mix a 
plain French dressing and toss the lettuce leaves in it 
in a large bowl and serve the lettuce salad, or serve the 
potato salad which should be already prepared on small 
fancy plates. If coffee is made at the table assign this 
task to one guest and appoint two or three waiters to 



14 Suppers 

see that the sandwiches, coffee, salad and the chafing 
dish product are handed about. Dill pickles are pop- 
ular for chafing dish suppers, and so are wienerwursts, 
rye bread and Swiss cheese. The main idea of such a 
supper is to keep everyone busy helping and seeing that 
the supper does not lag. 

A Chafing Dish Party. 

Hey diddle diddle, the cat's in the fiddle, 
The cow jumped over the moon, 
The little dog laughed to see the sport, 
And the dish ran away with the spoon. 

Start in with a spelling match and spell each other 
down in good old-fashioned style. As soon as any one 
misses two words he or she is dropped out. Finally 
when only one is left, award a prize, a little water color, 
painted by the hostess, and framed passe-partout, to the 
"unabridged dictionary" as the winner might be called. 
The one who fails and retires first from the field re- 
ceives a toy chafing dish. In the dining room the pol- 
ished table is daintily set with doilies under the olive 
and almond dishes, and under the plates and glasses. 
The supper is a very simple one. Make creamed oysters 
in the chafing dish and serve them in home-made pate 
shells. Then have celery sandwiches made of thin 
slices of bread rolled around tender splintered stalks 
of celery, and dainty lettuce sandwiches with the lettuce 
crisp and cold and the mayonnaise of good stiffness and 
small cups of coffee. 



Suppers 15 

To divert the attention while the hostess Is cooking 
the oysters put at each plate a large oyster shell with a 
verse painted upon it in the form of a recipe which 
brings out Jittle characteristics of each one of the guests. 
One man who is very clever and a dabbler in verse 
may receive the following: 

"For this wonder culinary 
Take a pound of dictionary, 
Philosophy, perhaps a cup- 
Beat three epics, mix them up, 
With a measure of blank verse 
Season with oratory terse, 
Sprinkle in a bunch of rut 

looms into view." 

A girl who has a record of alleged broken hearts to 
her account, is exploited in this style : 

"Take an ounce of fickleness, 

Remorse, perhaps a grain or less; 

Stir this into ready wit, 

A Siren's smile to leaven it; 

A laugh of wondrous catchiness 
This is little " 

Over the Chafing Dish. 

Recipes for cooking with this dish of dishes are more 
than plentiful, yet new ones are always sought; and 
these will all be found most excellent. 

Sweetbreads with Peas. 

Can of peas; three small sweetbreads; one teaspoon- 
ful butter; one-half pint of stock broth; celery leaf; 
salt; white pepper; one-half teaspoonful brown flour. 



1 6 Suppers 

Stand the sweetbreads in cold water for an hour. Then 
parboil and remove rough edges, membranes, sinews, 
etc. Put in cold water and keep on ice until wanted. 
Put into the charing dish the butter and the sweet- 
breads. When the butter has been absorbed, add one- 
half pint of stock and the celery leaf, chopped fine, the 
salt, pepper and browned flour. Turn the sweetbreads. 
When the same is reduced one half it is ready. While 
the sweetbreads are cooking open a can of green peas. 
Warm thoroughly in the chafing dish. Put in salt, 
pepper and tablespoonful of butter. Serve peas and 
sweetbreads together. 

4 

Lobster a la Newberg. 

Meat of a boiled lobster, cut into large dice; good- 
sized lump butter; one gill of sherry; one pint of 
cream ; yolks of two eggs ; glass of sauterne. 

Put the lobster into the chafing dish with a good- 
sized lump of butter and stir gently until the butter is 
melted and the lobster heated through. Mix the sherry 
with the cream and yolk of eggs, first blending the lat- 
ter with enough cream to make them thick as mayon- 
naise. Pour the mixture into the dish over the lobster. 
Let it simmer a moment, then pour the sauterne over 
the whole and serve hot. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One pound chopped American cheese; one-half glass 
ale; yolk of an egg; one teaspoonful dry mustard; one 
teaspoonf ul Worcestershire sauce and butter ; a dash of 



Suppers 17 

red and one or two of black pepper; a few drops of 
Tabasco. If cheese is fresh add salt. Into the chaf- 
ing dish put a few small lumps of butter. After it has 
simmered a bit put in the cheese. Stir constantly and 
gradually add the ale. When the cheese and ale are' 
well blended stir in the condiments prepared as fol- 
lows : To the yolk of the egg broken into a cup, add 
the dry mustard and Worcestershire sauce, red and 
black pepper and Tabasco. Let it have one more heat- 
ing and pour over toast or toasted biscuit. 



1 8 Suppers 



CHAPTER II. 

German, Dutch and Bohemian Suppers — Some 
Queer German Suppers — A Dutch Supper — 
Bohemian Supper for Men — The Dutch 
Supper. ' 

Some Queer German Suppers. 

At the following suppers German wines or beers are 
served during the meal when desired: 

Beer Bouillon 
Fricandeau of Veal, with Macaroni 

Cauliflower 

Cold Pullet, with Apricot Compote 

Chocolate Souffle 

Coffee 

Herring Broth 

Pork Cutlets 

Cold Turnips 

Sour Roast Meat Sliced, with Pear Compote 

Orange Jelly 
Small Cups of Coffee 

Sardines 
Turbots 
' Carrots, Creamed 

Slices of Venison, with Cranberry Compote 

Omelette 
Black Coffee 



■«— *i«m»" 



N Suppers 19 

Plum Bouillon 

Salmon with Butter 

Fillet of Beef with Mushrooms 

Creamed Asparagus 

Duck with Currant Compote 

Ices 

Black Coffee 

Crab Broth 

Cold Slices of Beef, with Plum Sauce 

Sour Potatoes 

Belgian Hare, Sour Cream Sauce 

Crackers and Cheese 

Small Cups of Coffee 

In Germany the rich and poor alike have the same 
taste for strange and extraordinary dishes, though 
these are prepared in a more costly manner in the houses 
of the wealthy. The German "geschmack," to borrow 
their own word, seems different from that of other na- 
tions. A waiter who had the selection of a menu for 
the principal officers' mess in Berlin, when questioned 
stated that all the sweets were regularly struck out 
by the officer who revised the bill of fare with the re- 
mark, "Give us only sour." That the Germans, how- 
ever, lay great stress on the culinary art is best proved 
by the fact that in the German domestic exhibition, re- 
cently held in Berlin, the recipes were sold at the rate 
of 12 1/2 cents apiece and freely bought at that price. 

The Germans have a greater variety of soups, in- 
cluding chowders, broths and bouillons, then any other 
nation of Europe. Most peculiar are their beer soups. 
One of the most popular of these is beer and raisin 



20 Suppers 

soup, which, in the form of chowders, broths, bouillons 
and soups, is served for breakfasts, dinners, and sup- 
pers. It is made as follows: 

Boil a sufficient quantity of raisins in water with a 
slice of bread in it until the raisins are soft. Then pour 
in beer till the mixture tastes quite strong. Sweeten 
with sugar and when it boils add from a half to a whole 
teaspoonful of flour thickening. Stir the liquid and 
add whisked eggs or cream. 

It might seem the height of human imagination to 
combine beer and raisins in a soup or bouillon, but the 
Germans proceed a step further and make a favorite 
soup, broth or boillon out of beer and milk, which are 
mixed together in the proportion of two pints of milk 
to one pint of beer and prepared with the addition of 
currants, flour and salt. Fruit soups, broths and bouil- 
lons of all kinds play an important part at German 
luncheons, dinners and suppers, and really some of them 
are delicious. Perhaps the best is a strawberry decoc- 
tion which is made as follows: 

Boil some biscuit powder in water. Add wine, sugar 
and cinnamon according to taste. In case the mixture 
is not thick enough stir in a little corn flour. When 
this has boiled take it off the fire and put in some cup- 
fuls of ripe strawberries which must have lain an hour 
with sugar over them. Serve as soup, broth or bouillon. 

Fish soups are also very usual, the chief fish em- 
ployed for the purpose being the carp and the pike. 
Indeed the Germans seem able to make soup out of any- 
thing and, not only to make it, but enjoy it. 



Suppers . 21 

Vegetables at German dinners, luncheons or suppers 
are always served in a special course by themselves, 
being served cold at suppers. They are dressed with 
oil, butter, or drippings, never boiled in water as we 
cook them. These fats are placed in a saucepan and 
allowed to boil before the vegetables are put in. Suet 
may be used instead of the above. Of course, this 
method of dressing does not always apply to pota- 
toes^ — which are boiled in the American manner, 
though served in a countless variety of ways. They 
are served with melted butter and parsley sauce 
as a dish by themselves. They are served with 
sour milk sauce. Other preparations of potatoes 
are too numerous to mention, but we may briefly 
enumerate sour potatoes with bay leaves (the latter 
being boiled with them), potato fritters, potatoes and 
apples, potatoes and pears, potatoes and damsons, 
potatoes and vermicelli, etc. Some of these mixtures 
we attest, from personal experience after tasting them, 
are not so unsavory as at first sight might appear. The 
potato is a vegetable of undecided flavor and lends 
itself to combinations with sweet fruits in an extra- 
ordnary manner. Indeed by the addition of sugar in 
some of the German dishes it would pass for a fruit 
itself. 

Sour roast meat is a favorite with Germans. The 
extraordinary taste which finds pleasure in eating this 
sour meat is little less remarkable than the strange 
way in which the viand is prepared. Whey is first 
taken and curdled with vinegar, and the meat is laid 



22 Suppers 

in this, the whey and vinegar being changed every two 
days. This preliminary pickling goes on for more than 
a week until the meat is thoroughly sour and sodden. 
If not sour to the last degree the cook has orders to 
baste it with vinegar while roasting, so as to secure the 
extreme point of acidity. Before it is put to the fire 
the cooks often slash it, and rub it with cayenne pep- 
per, onions, turnips and the crust of black bread so as 
to give it some recondite flavor, with the merit of which 
we are unacquainted. When finally cooked, it is eaten 
by Germans with as much relish as a fine sirloin is by 
Americans. This meat is very popular when served 
cold at suppers. 

At German suppers along with the meat is eaten the 
"compote." This is a species of preserved or stewed 
fruit, which is served on little glass plates, and lies at 
the side of the supper plate. It is not an uncommon 
sight to see a German at supper or dinner putting meth- 
odically a piece of meat in his mouth and next instant 
a spoonful of cranberries or stewed apricots, and re- 
peating the process indefinitely as long as the meal lasts. 
The little glass plate on which the "compote" lies is 
lifted to the mouth along with the spoon, replaced on 
the table, and then the German attacks his meat for 
another mouthful only. 

A Dutch Supper. 

Some cold night try an American version of a Dutch 
supper. Have the place cards in the form of Hans 
Brinker with the silver skates, or sketches of Hen- 



Suppers 23 

riette Ronner's famous cats. A windmill for a center- 
piece and copies of the wooden shoes for bon-bons and 
nuts. 

Use Delft china and of course the coffee must be 
from Mandheling or Padang — the best Java. From a 
German bake shop get the bread, either "Kummel," 
(which is rye with caraway seeds), or Pumpernickel. 
Be sure and have herring and anchovies in some form 
— anchovy toast is nice. The simplest way to prepare 
this is to toast white bread cut in strips, then spread 
each with butter and essence of anchovy. Fry some 
fine oysters. Prepare plenty of cabbage salad or cold 
slaw, with boiled dressing. From a delicatessen store 
procure dill pickles and a nice Edam cheese. 

After these, serve rich compotes of fruit — cherry 
and plum, with anise seed cookies and little nutmeg 
and cinnamon cakes, so that if, perchance, dreams fol- 
low, they will be, of the tropic seas and the fragrant 
breezes of the Dutch spice islands. 

Bohemian Supper for Men. 

Here are two ideas for a Bohemian supper. Know- 
ing that men prefer substantial dishes with generous 
helpings to a great number of fancy "messes' as they 
term it, we would therefore suggest a Beefsteak sup- 
per. First serve raw oysters. After the oysters have 
the steaks brought in on separate platters, placing plat- 
ters before the second, fifth, eighth, eleventh, etc, 
guests. These men cut the steak for the men on their 
left and right. With the steaks serve French fried 



24 Suppers 

potatoes and the Vienna bread or rolls, the very hard 
crusty kind. For the second course serve cheese, a 
rarebit on hard crackers, or any strong cheese. Serve 
ale or beer with this supper and no sweets. In buying 
the steaks the chef will have to pay more attention to 
the quality of the meat, than size and appearance. The 
steaks should be broiled over coals and served piping 
hot in their own gravy. The second menu includes 
one hot dish, a rabbit fricasse or stew. Any chef (es- 
pecially German) can prepare what is called "Hassen- 
pfeffer stew." This is rabbit soaked in vinegar and 
cooked with certaih herbs and is liked by Bohemians. 
With this serve potato salad and cold dishes, Swiss 
cheese on rye bread, Westphalian ham, Frankfurters, 
Bologna, cottage cheese with chopped chives, dill 
pickles, Spanish onions sliced in vinegar, French mus- 
tard, radishes, spring onions, pickled beets and pickled 
eggs, pickled herring. Serve black coffee, beer or ale 
with this supper. Have the sandwiches in baskets and 
the condiments in the four-part dishes, everything on 
the table and no waiters save for the liquors. Sardines 
on toast will make a good first course or appetizer for 
this dinner. If one has a few pieces (violin, cello, 
bass viol, flute) to play Hungarian airs during the din- 
ner it will please the guests. The table should be bare 
of cloths of any sort. Arrange as a center decoration 
a miniature prize fight. Have a small platform roped 
off with silk cords, toy figures of pugilists labeled, and 
all the accessories. For each guest a toy figure of a 
hunter, football player, golfer, prize fighter or any de- 



/ 



Suppers 25 

sired athlete could be used. On the back of the figure 
hang something which will refer to some particular 
fad or joke on the member. For instance, if one has 
met with an accident in hunting put a bit of porous 
plaster on the back of the figure. If one has won a 
trophy, hang a tiny loving cup or stein, etc. In place 
of the toasts try this : Arrange with a man at the tele- 
phone exchange to ring up the telephone in the house 
every ten or fifteen minutes during the dinner. Ask 
one man to answer the 'phone and carry on a fake con- 
versation taking off different members of the dinner, 
incorporating the question in his afrswer. This will 
keep the crowd roaring. A man with a megaphone de- 
scribing a race or fight will keep the crowd in a good 
humor. 

The Dutch Supper. 

The plebian Dutch supper is the very latest mode 
of dispensing hospitality, and has, as yet, the charm 
of novelty. 

The hours range from six in the evening until mid- 
night, and during the heated term is very popular 
as the windup of a trolley or automobile ride. 

Now, it would not do to seat an American crowd to 
a genuine Dutch supper, in all its glory of limburger 
and sour-kraut, but relieve it of the disagreeables, and 
a menu, not fancy, but simple and eatable, remains. 

The table must be covered with the whitest of linen, 
while the decorations should be blue and red, thus 
to combine effectively Holland's national colors, 
which, by the way, are not the same as our own. 



26 Suppers, 

The center is occupied by a great dish of stuffed 
eggs, garnished with parsley, the green sprays trailing 
on the cloth; as a companion to this, there is a large 
platter of thinly sliced ham, cold, but the "weinies" 
must be steaming hot. Then there is a salmon salad 
encircled by water cress or nasturtium leaves, and at 
intervals, dainty mounds of potato salad. Tomatoes 
with French dressing (with onions would be more in 
keeping), small saucers of cheese, sweet and sour 
pickles, olives, slaw (instead of sour-kraut), bread, in 
layers of white and brown, and last, but by no means 
least, smear-kase, served individually. 

Pretzels and fruits, which may include any and all 
kinds, form the dessert, and can be most artistically 
arranged by a tasteful person with deft fingers. 

Beer, in mugs, is, of course, the correct beverage, 
but the lighter wines are also permissable. 

One charming feature of the supper is that it is 
served cold and all together, which leaves the hostess 
free to enjoy her guests without fear that something 
will go wrong in the culinary department. 

Now, like everything else, the Dutch supper can be 
made elaborate, and the bill of fare extended and put 
in courses, but a friendly gathering about a homely 
meal, where one naturally feels at ease, will appeal to 
most as preferable* 



Suppers 27 



CHAPTER III. 

Entertaining in the Modern Apartment — A 

Little Sunday Night Supper — Stag 

Suppers — A Bachelor Supper. 

There are some people to whose distorted vision 
the tiniest molehills are magnified into veritable chains 
of mountains, rugged and insurmountable; and if, in 
addition to their other woes, they happen to be unfor- 
tunate enough to dwell in a flat, their desolation is 
complete. To these women what is said on the subject 
of entertaining in a modern apartment will possess' 
not one atom of interest. Before their horrified eyes 
will gleam a thousand unsolvable difficulties, and an 
attempt to successfully evade them might engulf them 
still further, so this appeal for the much maligned 
"tenement" of the day is to some bright little woman 
whose very touch transforms and whose ready brain 
devises with unerring accuracy. 

First ; it is not to be supposed, if you are dwelling in 
a modern apartment, that your wealth is unlimited, 
your resources illimitable and just for that very rea- 
son your fertile brain has far more opportunity to ex- 
ercise its originality than if you merely telephoned 
"covers for twelve" to some fashionable caterer* 
stepped into an evening gown held by an obsequious 
maid, and exhibited your jewels at the head of your 
well appointed table, conscious (if not troubled) by 
the fact that this same man was turning out well- 



2 8 Suppers 

served dinners by the dozen, shaping them all (like his 
ice-cream) in certain fashionable moulds. 

We all retain just enough of the old Adam to relish 
a well earned victory, and the old lady whose light 
hand for cake is the talk of the township, is just as 
much of an artist in her own way as the fashionable 
decorator. It is almost as impossible to set down a 
given rule for entertaining as it was for the old darkey 
S.P"*" 1 ,n tangible form her famous recipe for pones. 
Why, honey," said she, "it's easy enuf. I jes stir up 
a little cohn meal and watah, adds some salt and other 
truck and cooks it till it's done. Sho nuf you cud make 
it yousef. 

It is quite as often the hand that stirs the cake as 
well as the ingredients themselves that makes, the enter- 
tainment successful. 

n i;Jl!f re a . rC some women who have a Perfectly inex- 
plicable talent for making life livable. Under their 

daLv 3™ r kwa u d - C - Urtains and duperies assume 
mS 2 » i 5 T t . he,r ™ a g ina tions blossom forth the 
Seir fcrnl S d t V,CCS f °f entert *inment and comfort ; 
do nnl , vi. never ^ ave scaIes ^ their umbrella plants 
SiKZSr a ! the Cdg f * These are the women'who 
His our iZt • K C • " and ? ady tact > overlook *e smal 
sunshine Si ' S hC,r t0 and brir, g forth int ° the bright 
conSns. C many °PP° rtun ^es which everyone's fife 

molTK^^Ti,^ apa , tment •» tiny - d 

sible to emSS, *f ? the firSt glance almost ™POs- 

give as charS ta^" Study its best effects and 
cnarming little dinners as were ever attended. 



Suppers 29 

Her dining room, small but cosy, seems made for dec- 
oration and her table may well be the delight of many 
a more ambitious hostess. The decorations, simple, in- 
expensive and artistic, are the outward and visible 
signs of her individual taste. No thick stalks of un- 
bending and forbidding "bouquets" disfigure her pretty 
vases. Her candles gleam through dainty shades (of 
paper it is true) fashioned by her own deft fingers. 
Full-skirted and fluffy, their inexpensiveness makes it 
quite possible to have them of all colors and shades, 
and a much-prized pair of silver candelabra lend dig- 
nity to the general effect. 

Quiet entertaining, preceded by gracious little notes 
presaging a cordial welcome, is one of her fancies, 
and one is quite sure that at her home the entertain- 
ment will be deprived of customary stiffness and will 
resolve into a merry table of congenial friends. 

A short time ago an old friend of such a woman be- 
came engaged and wishing to meet his fiancee she fol- 
lowed her call by an invitation to supper. Appreciat- 
ing the newness of the engagement and her slight ac- 
quaintance with the young lady, she wisely made it a 
little supper of four and decked her table with sweet 
simplicity. 

Her china, of dainty Limoges, was purchased with 
an idea of being serviceable for many occasions, and is 
mostly in odd half-dozens, although the color scheme 
throughout is green and white, a combination which 
blends well with anything. Her soup plates, tea 
plates, dinner plates, platters and vegetable dishes are 
of the same pattern, but the china for the entree, the 



30 Suppers 

salad set, dessert set, cheese plates, bread and butter 
plates, etc., are all of a different but harmonizing 
design. 

Green and white being always a lovely color for the 
;able and also admitting of very inexpensive treatment, 
make informal suppers not only quite possible but very 
attractive as well. 

The table was round, just large enough for four, 
and nearly covered with a pretty lunch cloth embroid- 
ered in white. In the center a huge butterfly bow of 
wide green- ribbon that just matched the china trailed 
nearly to the edge of the table. Over the cloth were 
scattered white carnations and ferns in artistic careless- 
ness, and two slender candel-sticks, with generously 
green skirted candles, broke the flat effect. Each can- 
dlestick wore, with holiday gayness, a large green bow, 
and the soft combination of color and grouping was 
charming. 

The supper itself was very simple. A course of raw 
oysters and stuffed mangoes, with the usual accompani- 
ment of horseradish and lemon, came first. Quail on 
toast with quince jelly (the jelly served in individual 
forms on tiny leaves of lettuce) followed with stuffed 
potatoes as an accompaniment and a delicious little 
chestnut salad was next in order. The dessert was a 
rich chocolate cream, stiffened with gelatine and mould- 
ed round with a large hole in the center. This was 
filled high with thick cream, whipped, sweetened and 
flavored with maraschino. The bonbons, of green and 
white, added the last touch of harmonic color to the 
dainty little feast. 



Suppers 31 

A Lttle Sunday Night Supper. 

Shortly after this, encouraged by her success, she 
gave a little Sunday night supper to introduce two 
young people to each other. The table, as before, was 
round, but the colors used were yellow and white. 

A large round tea cloth, fashioned by the hostess, 
covered the table. In the center five ragged yellow 
chrysanthemums were fastened together with a wide 
yellow ribbon and wired to a slender upright, which 
they entirely concealed. Just inside the circle formed 
by the plates, glasses, etc., a wavy circle of smilax 
trailed and ran out into little curves between the plates. 
Nothing more simple could be imagined, but the guests 
had a very appreciative look as they were seated. Get- 
ting acquainted under such conditions was a very natu- 
ral and easy process. 

The supper, was simplicity itself, and consisted of a 
clam cocktail; frilled French chops with green peas; 
a rarebit made in the chafing-dish and a rich lemon ice 
for dessert. In connection there were, it is unnecessary 
to add, many delicious accompaniments. Brown bread 
sandwiches, thin as wafers, were passed withr^h© coc£- M 
tail. Bread accompanied the chops, the^TajSblt was 
served in a bank of cress, with lettucft anHT pf e # s& saad- 
wiches, and the ice was made even- mw? J 3elicious by 
the addition of stuffed champagne JwafenL* A pleasant 
time in the host's den followed, and thus* a happy little 
evening, quite within the reach $£,anypne, was made 
possible by a little forethought. » *••* . 

The apartment in which this tyqnjan- lives has only 






• 9 






- „ • 



32 • Suppers 

six rooms, so you can imagine that entertaining (in its 
ordinary sense) is somewhat out of the question, but 
very charming little "at homes" are given once a month 
during the winter, and as the parlor and den adjoin, 
and are cosily furnished to correspond, it is quite pos- 
sible to entertain in this way. 

If you attend her "Wednesdays" in December you 
will be ushered in by a neat little maid in frilled cap 
and apron and black sateen gown. You will find your 
hostess in the parlor with half-a-dozen others, and, 
think you have a glimpse into Japanese fairyland. The 
den is somewhat denuded of its ordinary furnishings, 
but the bizarre posters still remain on the walls, and 
the couch, covered with a scrawly Japanese creton, is 
still in evidence. Wires are stretched from picture 
moulding to picture moulding, and Japanese lanterns 
swing gayly from above. In one corner a huge paper 
umbrella, dangling with unlighted lanterns, bright 
hued and tiny, swings over a low tea table, at which 
sits one of the hostess* friends in Japanese array. Her 
dark eyes, blackened into almond-shaped slits, 
vie .wJth # her decorated hair in foreign effect. From 
• • *. dainty: little Japanese cups we drink the tea she makes 

.• *.*•%•: f° r usj«^nd*jh"ank fortune there is one woman in the 
.•"••/••■ *.wdrra7 atj'le/Sktj.jEvJio dares trifle with the conventional 

•••.*• * • * "at home" 'ana* eliminate its objectionable features. 

*• • While drinking your tea you nibble at rolled Tutti 

/ Fruitti wafers, murifch delicious home-made bonbons, 

stuffed figs and:flfHigat (for which your hostess is so 

famous), revelrio'.a huge Japanese jar (strangely like 

a familiar ujhbmia* stand) which holds five great 



♦ • « 



• •• 



• • •». 

• • k " O 



Suppers 33 

ragged yellow chrysanthemums with stems nearly three 
feet long, and finally settle yourself down to listen to 
some quaint little love song, with guitar accompani- 
ment, sung by a dear little maid with bronze-brown 
hair. 

This hostess limits each "at home" to twenty-five, so 
small a number it makes the average hostess smile, 
but, if necessary, gives four or five through the winter, 
as she needs no service beyond that of her own maid, 
making the expense marvelously small. She has many 
friends who feel as you do, that one bid to a sociable 
little "five o'clock" in her doll-house flat is worth all 
the receptions of a week on gay upper Fifth Avenue. 

The first Saturday evening in each month, from No- 
vember uptil April, she and her husband are at home to 
his bachelor friends and any young married people who 
can endure the suffocating atmosphere. All the easy 
chairs are pressed into service, the little iron lanterns 
blink joyously, and story-telling, music and smoking 
are the order of the evening. The light being dim, po- 
sitions are uncertain and bachelor manners prevail, so 
unrestrained jollity reigns, and though the people in 
the other flats may hear the echoing laughter they pass 
it over % with a good natured tolerance and wonder 
what there is that is so funny. 

About half-past ten, when stories wane and a change 
seems desirable, the little low tea table appears and a 
rarebit, souffle of oysters, or some chafing-dish dainty, 
is prepared by the hostess. Occasionally, when one of 
the men has a firmly founded reputation for some 
special dish he is asked to officiate, which he does amid 



34 Suppers 

the joyous jokes of his roistering colleagues, while 
everyone within reach renders able assistance and the 
others keep up a running fire of disabling comments. 

If one is willing to take advantage of their very 
present opportunities it seems to me that limited means 
lose half their disadvantages. Choose your apartment 
with a view to entertaining. If your bed-room opens 
from the parlor make it dainty and sweet and close 
the portieres until merely a glimpse appears. 

Wax your hardwood floors and keep them shining 
like mirrors; if rugs are scarce they will be a good 
apology. Make your friends welcome and give them 
a good time when they come. An old-fashioned candy- 
pull is often more entertaining than the most elaborate- 
ly prepared function. 

A Stag Supper, i. 

In the main room have a mellow light from two or 
three swinging iron lanterns and several in Japanese 
paper. Off in one of the corners, have a cut-glass bowl 
filled with punch and around it a ring of smilax. The 
guests select their places by each choosing the name of 
one of six popular actresses. A silver tray contain* 
ing six small blank envelopes is passed, and in 
each envelope is enclosed one of the host's cards, on 
the back of which is inscribed the name of an actress. 
Passing into the dining-room they find, at each place, 
a photo to correspond, on the back of which is written 
some well-known quotations from the actresses' most 
famous plays. These photos are removed from their 



'Suppers 35 

original cards by soaking, and are rebuffed and 
mounted on rectangular mats of dull gray, on which 
the inscriptions are written in white ink. 

In the dining room over the heavy damask cloth, 
is stretched a quaint old German table runner, reach- 
ing from end to end of the table. In the center, em- 
broidered in the red cotton used in such work,. hos- 
pitality encourages jollity in the familiar old motto, 
"Ein froher Gast is Niemand's Last" (a merry guest 
is no one's burden). "Wein, Weib und Geasang," 
the faithful trio, is all represented. At each place, 
beside the napkin, is a rich red rose, just large enough 
to form a dainty boutonniere. 

Mounds of red pickled cabbage accompany the 
oysters, rich tomato soup follows, and the nougat ice 
cream is decorated with candied cherries. 

The introduction of the bonbons in the form of 
candy cigars, tied in bunches with the familiar yellow 
bands, causes amusement. Brandy is burned on the 
coffee, and genuine cigars passed. 

A Stag Supper. 2. 

Turn the ballroom into a "roof garden" for a bache- 
lor supper. Cover the walls with canvas or grey car- 
tridge paper painted to instate grey bricks with ivy 
leaves painted over the surface. In each window ar- 
range a little hedge of plants in pots and use screens 
of wire covered with vines. Hang many colored lan- 
terns from the roof and at intervals about the room be- 
tween tables have tall branching standards with arms 



36 Suppers 

from which hang the lanterns. Tall palms and bay- 
trees in tubs set about the room add to the effect. Have 
a hidden orchestra to play airs from the popular operas 
or have an impromptu vaudeville, the guests furnish- 
ing the talent. A band of Gypsy fortune-tellers (men 
dressed to imitate Gypsy gtrls) admitted at the close 
of the feast will furnish fun, especially if they are 
men knowing the lives of the guests. Serve a beef- 
steak supper with any kind of beverages you choose. 
For name cards have steins cut from cardboard and 
decorated in imitation of the Mettlach steins. 

A Bachelor Supper. 

Have small mice pins for souvenirs. Decorate the 
long table in green vines, white flowers and odd candle 
holders. Creeping in and out of the vines have arti- 
ficial snakes, frogs, and other reptiles. Have the nap- 
kins held by toy spiders and fasten bats over the chan- 
delier globes. If one wishes a plain dinner serve oyster 
cocktails, tenderloin steak with mushrooms, French 
fried potatoes, stewed corn, Lima beans, tomato and 
onion salad with mayonnaise, cheesestraws, Bavarian 
cream, peach cake, cheese, crackers, coffee. Pass ci- 
gars. Have colored waiters who are good singers and 
between each course have them give a jubilee song. 
After dinner let them entertain the guests with songs, 
and banjo and guitar music. 



Suffers 37 

CHAPTER IV. 

Suppers for Special Occasions — Danish Valen- 
tine Supper — A Hallowe'en Ghost Hunt — 
A Hallowe'en Supper — Hallowe'en Supper 
Menus — A Pie Party for Thanksgiving Sea- 
son — The Pie Shelf — Birthday Suppers — 
Birthday Party. 

In Denmark our well known snowdrop, one of the 
earliest messengers of spring, has been since olden 
days held sacred to St. Valentine. k 

On that auspicious eve the Danish lover sends his 
lady a bunch of snow-drops (vinter-jrjaeks), (winter 
jokes they are called, because they peep out while it 
is yet winter and try to hoax people into ' thinking 
spring has come), with a card attached bearing a 
verse or sentiment and as many pin pricks as there are 
letters in his name. If she cannot guess the name 
from this clew she is fooled (gjaekket), and at Easter 
must pay the sender a forfeit of colored eggs. 

This quaint bit of folk-lore can be used in a novel 
Valentine supper. 

The invitations, bearing a bunch of painted snow- 
drops in one corner, invite you to a "Danish Valentine 
supper." 

Cherry and white are the national colors of Den- 
mark, and these should be used in the dining-room. 
The candles have cherry shades and in the center of 
the snowy cloth have a square of cherry velvet, on 
which snow-drops and ferns are banked with dainty 



38 Suppers 

effect. The menu cards are shaped like hearts, tied 
with a knot of cherry ribbon and edged with painted 
snow-drops. Across the top in gold letters is the 
word "welbekomin" (may it agree with you.) 

At each place have a tiny heart-shaped cup of cherry 
crepe paper, holding a little bunch of snow-drops. 
The ices are in the shape of hearts with a candied 
cherry in the center of each. Heart-shaped cakes can 
be iced in pink, and mingled in the salad have tiny 
hearts cut from slices of red beef. 

When all are assembled in the parlor give each 
guest a square white envelope enclosing a card having 
a knot of snow-drops in one corner with cherry ribbon, 
and containing a verse and numerous pin pricks. Each 
one must guess from these the name of his companion 
for supper. 

Here are some of the verses, some of which are 
translations from the Danish. 

"Though a child of winter's cold and storm, 

I bring to you love-greetings warm. 

From whom? Ah, yes! 

That shall you guess! 

And that you may the sender surely know, 

Count all the little pin-pricks signed below/ 1 

• • • • • j» • • • • 

"Little maiden fair and neat, 
' Here on stalk so light, 
Fine as silk by fairies spun, 
Hangs a snow-drop white; 
From a friend I come — 
Tell me now — from whom?" 



Suppers 39 



"Love's first kisses are the snow-drops, 
Ringing here like fairy bells; 
Let thy heart bend low and listen 
To the tale their music tells." 



"Sir Knight, wouldst know thy lady's name? 
These pin-pricks tell from whence I came." 



"Love wove the snow-flakes in a flower 
To deck his lady's secret bower; 
With them my love I now confess — 
Thy true knight's name I'd have thee guess." 



"Farewell to winter! Now farewell — 
We snow-bells rang his dying knell, 
And had you but a fine, fine ear, 
That could our fairy chiming hear, 
Then should you know which friend so true 
Has sent this vinter-gjaek to you: 
For ever softly do we sing 
The name of him whose love we bring." 



"Wouldst find the fair lady Fate chooses for you? 
Then search ye this line of wee pin-pricks clear through/' 



"For life, as for dinner,^ chance fixes our mate ; 
These pin-pricks point you the way to your fate." 



A Hallowe'en Ghost Hunt, 
"fr the gobble-uns 'll git you, ef you don't 



WATCH OUT." 



Have the above words from James Whitcomb Ri- 
ley's poem printed in large letters over the entrance! 



40 Suppers 

the door of which should open with a rattle of chains 
and a creaking. Ask each guest to wear a false face 
and a red or black domino. When all have assem- 
bled in the parlor, where lights are turned low, have 
a guide in red with a Mephisto make-up or a witch to 
instruct the party before it starts on the "ghost hunt." 
Not a word must be spoken no matter what the provo- 
cation, not a giggle must be heard, no one must turn 
his head or eyes, but look straight ahead. Have gob- 
lins in red with big eyes painted on their cotton masks, 
holding clubs, stationed along the route to watch of- 
fenders. 

Take the party by a circuitous route, upstairs 
through dark rooms where open windows and doors 
make the air cold, up into the attic, lighted only by 
burning alcohol and % salt, then down stairs, around 
the porches and about the yard. If there is an out- 
side cellar-way, take them down that, otherwise inside 
the house to the cellar. All along the route have 
imitation "spooks" placed in corners and unexpected 
places — grinning Jack-o'lantern heads, with ghostly 
bodies, immense false faces with lights behind them, 
witches, grotesque animals including black cats, black 
bears, etc. From cobwebs of grey cotton or wool ropes 
suspend bats and spiders. Leave objects about for 
guests to stumble over and have as many terrifying 
noises as possible. 

In a corner of the cellar, screened by canvas and 
guarded by fierce goblins, have the Great Chief Ghost 
and his secretary on a throne. Around the corner 



Suppers 41 

have a ring of ghosts manufactured from brooms with 
sheets and white cowls. The ghost hunters sit on the 
floor in silence for a few moments. Then the secre- 
tary, in terrible tones, calls the name of each guest 
and gives the list of his pet sins. The secretary 
should be a person with ready tongue and wit knowing 
jokes on each individual. When the secretary fin- 
ishes each case, the Great Chief Ghost asks the de- 
fendant what he has to say for himself. If the latter 
plead his case successfully and solemnly swear that 
he is prepared to tell a ghost story if called upon, 
he is allowed to select his own punishment. If, how- 
ever, he cannot clear himself, the Great Chief Ghost 
names his punishment. The sentences should be as 
ridiculous as possible. 

The trip back from the cave should be as tantaliz- 
ing as can be made. Viands should be offered and 
whisked away. The clever host and hostess can de- 
vise many tricks. 

The Ghost Hunt should end in a brilliantly lighted 
dining room with table set for supper and time allowed 
just before midnight to try the familiar Hallowe'en 
charms. This party can be given by a club or church 
using a big house and grounds. Decorate the table 
in unique arrangement of pumplrins, fruits and candies 
and serve any preferred menu, or this one : 

Oyster Soup, Alphabet Crackers 

Veal or Chicken Patties, Cold Boiled Ham or Tongue, 

Potato Salad, Apple Sauce, Dill Pickles, 

Hot Gingerbread, Cheese Coffee. 



42 Suppers 

A Hallowe'en Supper. 

Some merry, friendly countra folks 
Together did convene, 
To burn their nuts, an* pluck their stocks 
An* hand their hollowe'en. 

— Burns. 

"Butter'd Sowens" 

Broiled Squirrels, Hot Pocketbooks 

Bow- kail Salad 

Brownie Cake, Halloween Jelly 

Roasted Chestnuts, Apples 

Coffee 

Buttered So wens — Oatmeal made into mush and 
eaten with butter and sugar. The Scotch always have 
this for their Hallowe'en supper. 

Broiled Squirrels — Your squirrels must be young 
and tender. Clean, and soak to draw out the blood. 
Wipe dry, and broil over a hot, clear fire, turning 
often. When done to a golden brown, lay in a hot 
dish and anoint with melted butter. Season each 
squirrel with a salt spoon of salt and half spoon of pep- 
per. They are delicious. 

Hot Pocketbooks — One pint of sweet milk, 
brought to boiling point, to which, add one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, half teaspoonful of salt and butter the 
size of an egg; let cool till luke warm, then add half 
cake of yeast, two eggs and a quart of flour. Let the 
dough rise in a warm place until very light, then put 
down with the hand and let rise again; roll out to 
about five-eighths of an inch thick, cut in four inch 



Suppers 43 

circles, brush with melted butter and fold over; let 
rise on tins, bake until a delicate brown, then while 
warm, go over the surface with melted butter to make 
the crust tender. 

Bow-Kail Salad — Put one-half cup of vinegar 
and one tablespoonful of butter to heat in a double 
boiler. Beat yolk of one egg, one spoonful of flour and 
one of sugar together, add two tablespoonfuls of sour 
cream and cook in the vinegar until smooth. Just be- 
fore it boils, stir in the well-beaten white and pour 
immediately over your cabbage or "bow-kail," which 
has been shredded and salted. 

Brownie Cake — One cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, one cup and a half of flour, 
sifted with one teaspoonful of baking powder. Set 
one square of chocolate on a kettle of boiling water 
and let it melt. After melting, mix one-half cup of 
sweet milk slowly in the chocolate, add half-cup of 
sugar. Pour into batter, mix thoroughly, and bake in 
layers. Put together with the following filling: 

Filling — Four ounces chocolate melted, add one- 
half cup of cream, two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
one cup of sugar; boil until it forms a very soft ball 
when dropped in cold water, then add one cup finely 
chopped nuts. Spread this very thick between the 
layers. Ice with plain chocolate icing, which you 
have reserved, before adding the nuts, and decorate 
with unbroken halves of English walnuts. 

Hallowe'en Jelly — Soften one ounce of gelatine 



44 Suppers 

in half a pint of cold water. When quite soft, add 
half a pint of hot water and a pint of good sparkling 
cider. If the cider be very sweet, the juice of a lemon 
is an improvement. Set on ice until firm, and when 
ready to serve, turn into a pumpkin shell which has 
been prettily carved on the edges. 

Hallowe'en Supper Menus. 

A suggestive menu is the following: 

Goblins' Broth, Elves' Fingers 

Fairy Rings 

Chicken and Celery Salad in Mayonnaise Triangles 

Almond Butter Hearts 

Strawberry Jelly Crescents with Whipped Cream 

Witches' Wands, The Cake of Doom 

Fruit, Nuts, Bonbons 

Coffee 

The goblins' broth is merely a delicious beef or 
chicken bouillon, the elves' fingers, strips of brown 
bread and butter, and the fairy rings mushroom pat- 
ties baked in ring moulds. To make the salad use any 
favorite recipe for chicken salad, and mix it with a 
bright golden mayonnaise to which enough aspic jelly 
' has been added to make it quite firm when cold. Pour 
into a square mould to set, cut into dainty triangles 
just before it is to be served, and lift carefully with a 
broad thin-bladed spatula. Serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves on gilt-edged plates. Spread white bread with 
almond butter and cut into heart shapes. Mould the 
strawberry jelly in half moons and serve with a spoon- 



f 



Suppers 45 

ful of whipped cream (made golden with the yolk of 
e gg) between the "horns." 

The witches' wands are most delicious. Roll puff 
paste thin, sprinkle lightly with finely chopped blanch- 
ed almonds, press the rolling pin lightly over again, 
and cut in strips not over two inches wide. Wind 
from the small end of the pointed tin tubes called lady 
lock sticks, and have each layer slightly overlay the 
preceding one. Set the tubes across a baking pan and 
bake in a good oven to a deep yellow. When done re- 
move from the oven and push the paste from the tube. 
Just before serving fill with pineapple meringue. 
Have bonbons in all kinds of suggestive shapes; brown- 
ies, witches, brooms, rings, crescents, triangles, et 
cetera. 

A Pie Party for Thanksgiving Season. 

Thanksgiving is the pie season par excellence. The „ 
very name calls up visions of old fashioned, buttery 
shelves loaded down with rows upon rows of the 
flaky wheels and delicious fillings. 

A new idea in entertaining for Thanksgiving, "the 
pie party," makes use of this American product. The 
scheme is an excellent one for the day itself or for 
any time during Thanksgiving season. 

To prepare for a pie party, get together as many 
pie plates as you can beg, borrow or buy. A couple 
of dozen will be needed at least. 

Arrange tables along the wall of the room in which 
the guests are to be received, and place the pie plates 



46 Suppers 

upon these tables. Cover the tables with white paper 
terminating in paper lace to give the effect of quaint, 
old-fashioned shelves. 

In each pan place a group of articles or pictures 
which will represent in anagram the filling of a pie. 
Punning and word stretching of all kinds are allow- 
able, although each puzzle must be simple enough to be 
readily recognized when guessed. 

Here is a rough suggestion to show the plan of the 
puzzles. The hostess may modify it to suit her own 
needs. 

THE PIE SHELF. 

A twig from a pine tree and an apple. Pineapple. 

The letters of the word cheese on alphabet cards, 
jumbled together, with a slice of cake. Cheesecake. 

A cigarette case in the form of a coffin (bury) and 
a scrap of straw* Strawberry. 

A paperweight representing a ragged little dog and 
an entomological photograph of the common ant. 
Cur(r)ant. 

A little oyster crab and an apple. Crabapple. 

A lead line (plumb). Plum. 

A pot, the letter A from baby's alphabet and the toe 
of a boot (pot-a-toe), all four articles being sprinkled 
with granulated sugar. Sweet Potato. 

A bicycle pump and a card having the words 
Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Uncle, Aunt, Cous- 
in, written upon it. Pump-kin. 

A breakfast cocoa box and a chestnut. Cocoanut. 

A tailor's iron and a berry. Blackberry. 



Suppers 47 

Cardboard cut in the shape of a peach with "to 
inform against," written upon it. Peach. 

Two aces (pair). Pear. 

A slip from the daily calendar bearing the date 
November. Date. 

A bow of cherry colored ribbon. Cherry. 

A bow of blue ribbon and a berry/ Blueberry. 

Some fluffy Easter chickens and a pot. Chicken pot 
pie. 

A pair of pruning shears. Prune. 

The guests are invited to inspect the pies and guess 
the contents. Each player works for himself and con- 
sultations are not allowed. 

Wee note books, having covers decorated in water 
p-color, with picturesque Thanksgiving scenes, are dis- 
ro tributed among the guests, for use in writing down 
£ guesses. 

It is explained that fruits, vegetables and everything 
of which pies are made, figure in the list. 

One hour is the usual time limit. The player, who 
in that time discovers most of the fillings, carries off 
first honors. There should be a second award and a 
couple of laughable boobies in the form of jelly tarts. 

The first prize might be a smart silver pie knife, 
and the second a pretty china pie dish. 

Smoking hot roasted oysters, jellied tongue with 
chopped pickle served in Spanish peppers, little hot 
rolls in form of balls, a plain tom ato salad and slices 
of delicious homejpodtrjgiejb §?g jarptog^the good things 
of the menu. 




Mfi^t Pram*, . 

. 103 tf*st 135th Street. 
". -,S\ 



'.'jTi„„ -.^r»»tt"\^ 



?J 



48 Suppers 

Birthday Supper, i. 

In the cake put a gold penny, a silver four-leaf clover, 
and a little image or amulet to drive away bad luck. 
Wrap them in paraffine or waxed paper or coat them 
with paraffine before putting them in the cake. Ask 
each one to make some birthday wish as the birthday 
person cuts his slice of cake. Place the cake on a table 
wreathed in greens or flowers or on a flower-trimmed 
tray. As many prefer scarlet carnations, this flower 
and red candles will make a pretty party. Just after 
supper pass the loving cup filled with claret, or fruit 
punch or cider. Each guest takes a sip to the health 
of the host. If your guests enjoy cards, let them play 
bridge, euchre, cinch, hearts, or the new card games in 
which figures are involved. If they do not care for 
cards a short program of old ballads by a good singer 
is always liked. As a surprise arrange a little series of 
funny tableaux showing the different birthdays of the 
guest of honor. To do this darken a room behind the 
players, and have a big screen for a background. 
No special stage properties are needed as the more ludi- 
crous this is the more it will be enjoyed. Have some 
one at the piano play appropriate music for the different 
tableaux. For one year old have a baby in a cradle or 
in its mother's arms ; for seventh birthday, a little boy 
starting to school with books and apple or candy; for 
the fourteenth birthday have a youth in sweater with 
football in arms rushing to the goal ; have the twenty- 
first birthday represented by the young man courting, 
the twenty-eighth by the wedding; and for the thirty- 



Suppers 49 

sixth have someone dressed and made up as nearly like 
the guest of honor as possible. 

For decoration have a frieze of ropes or smilax 
caught with scarlet ribbon. Cover the chandeliers 
with the greens and the shades with scarlet tissue 
paper. Bank the mantels with greens, having a mass 
of scarlet berries or flowers in the center of each. 
Red candles and shades on the mantels help the effect. 
If you have a table in the dining-room make the initials 
of the guest of honor in candles placed in a large 
wreath tied with scarlet ribbon. At each corner of the 
table have a single candle in a smaller wreath. 

For supper serve a hot course, creamed oysters, 
or creamed sweetbreads and mushrooms, tiny hot but- 
tered rolls and tiny pickles, chopped pickle or spiced 
peach, quince or pear, or brandied quince ; chicken salad, 
or sweetbread salad on a lettuce leaf with cheese straws, 
stuffed olives, coffee, ice cream frozen in fancy forms, 
(leaves being a pretty design), and cakes in tiny squares 
with little red candies like scarlet berries on green or 
white icing. 

Birthday Supper. 2. 

Candles may be used for a centerpiece and also to 
outline the figures representing the number of years. 
A pretty ceremony, if you • use candles on a birthday 
cake, is to have each guest light a candle with a wish 
for the guest of honor. When the cake is cut, blow 
out the candles and lift them off. 

For the red color scheme, garnish the dishes with 
radishes, slices of tomatoes, red peppers, beet rings, 



50 Suppers 

candied cherries. Serve cream of tomato soup, tiny 
radishes cut in rose forms, wafers, salted almonds. 
Broiled lobster garnished with slices of fresh tomatoes 
and cucumbers. 

Serve individual chicken pies baked in ramekins and 
served in red paper cases. In making these pies add 
mushrooms, potato marbles, white of hard-boiled 
eggs cut in rings and yolks cut in half. Make the 
cream sauce by using the liquor from the canned 
mushrooms, strong chicken stock and milk, thickened 
with flour. With this course serve a relish in red pep- 
pers, creamed peas, tiny hot rolls and a slice of sweet 
cucumber or watermelon pickle with a candied cherry 
on top. A beet salad garnished with rings of hard- 
boiled egg whites and the yolk run through a ricer, or 
chicken salad served in red peppers, tomato, cucumber 
and celery salad served in tomato shells, fruit salad 
served in red apples hollowed out. Serve wafers with 
the salad course. A pretty idea for the ice cream is to 
have it moulded in shape of candles with a little wick 
to be lighted just as it is brought to the table. Serve 
little square cakes with white icing and red bonbons. 
This menu gives two hot and two cold courses. 
Serve coffee or tea. At the close of the supper pass a 
loving cup of fruit punch, grape juice or wine, and ask 
each one to drink to the health of the guest of honor. 

Birthday Party. 

The guests are requested to represent, in some man- 
ner, their birth month. 



Suppers 5 1 

Most of them wear the birth stone suitable to the 
month which, as old legend tells us, is sure to protect 
against misfortune, the jewel acting as a talisman. 

Some may substitute flowers appropriate to their 
birth month. A young lady, whose birthday is in Jan- 
uary, may wear a string of tiny silver beads which 
tinkle musically wherever she goes. Another claiming 
January, also, as her birth month, may wear a brooch 
showing an old man and an infant, representing the 
old and new year. 

February's children are decked in red paper hearts, 
pierced with arrows. 

A young girl wearing a white apron, with several 
bars of music on the hem, represents March. 

April is represented by a paper fool's cap, and May 
by a pretty spring gown, decorated with violets and 
lilies of the valley. 

July, with her tri-colored streamers and numerous 
flags is easily dressed. 

August has white organdy and carries a palm leaf 
fan. 

September is adorned with golden rod and purple 
asters. 

October's daughter, wears a rich yellow gown, 
nearly covered with glorious autumn leaves, and a cap 
of the same brilliant leaves. 

November's costume is most striking, being a poster 
design, representing Thanksgiving. 

December's is a picturesque suit of white eider 
down flannel, ornamented with holly berries and run- 
ning pine. 



52 Suppers 

Each guest is requested to furnish one dish appro- 
priate to the month in which she was born. In this 
way the supper is quite out of the ordinary and the 
only tax on the hostess, with the exception of her one 
dish, is for coffee, pickles and cake. Below is given the 
menu: 

Oyster Stew, 

Butter Wafers, 

Fish Souffle, 

Potato Balls with Cream Sauce, 

Cold Turkey, 

Currant Jelly, 

Salted Nuts, 

Olives. 

Salmon Sandwiches, 

Orange and Nut Salad, 

Wafers, 

Strawberries, 

Ice Cream and Cake, 

Pumpkin Pie and Cheese, 

Fruit, 

Coffee. 



Suppers 53 



CHAPTER V. 

Miscellaneous Suppers — Camping Parties and 
Clambakes — Nutting Party — Harvest Home 
Supper — Autumn Suppers — Dickens Supper — 
Boston Supper Party — Yachting Party — A 
Butterfly Supper — Young Married Couples 
Supper — Head Dress Supper Party — Quilt- 
ing Supper — Wedding Supper — Waffle Sup- 
per — The Bohemian Picnic Supper — Railroad 
Party — Literary Supper — Peanut Party — 
Folk Lore Supper — *Cake Walk Supper — 
Bridge Whist Supper — After Theatre Menus 

— A Cold Supper Menu for Hot Weather. 

Throughout this broad land of ours, thousands of 
campers will be folding their white tens into compact 
rolls, tying gay blankets into portly bundles, invest- 
ing in mosquito netting and hammocks, packing into 
boxes their cooking utensils and fishing tackle, and 
finally loading all into boat or farmer's wagon, to 
gain health and happiness, and incidentally, to have 
a royal good time. 

Happy the camper who, taking hint from the big 
lumber camps, ties to his wagon an iron bean pot, 
and has always on hand for hungry souls a mess of de- 
licious baked beans. Every well-regulated camp 
should have a bean-hole dug close by the camp fire, 
and then when guests come out from town, if the 
camp is near town, a bean bake enlivens things. The 



%$ 



54 Suppers 

bean-hole is dug three feet square and carefully lined 
with flat stones or boulders, then it is filled with hard 
wood which makes fine coals. The wood is fired and 
burned until there glows a bed of hot coals and the 
stones are at white heat. A place is scooped out in 
the center for the bean-pot, and it is placed in this 
little oven, the coals swept back into place, the hot 
ashes added, and the hot earth around the fire put 
over it all. Then, snugly tucked away in their bed 
so warm, the beans are left alone for four and twenty 
hours. When taken out, steaming and fragrant, they 
are perfect in form, brown and crisp, and of flavor 
so delicious that the mouth, waters at the mere recol- 
lection. This with brown bread or cone pone, baked 
in the ashes, and good strong coffee, makes a meal in 
itself, and if the beans are served hot, the hungry 
campers feel they have had a feast fit for a king. Those 
who cling to their bean-pots keep one mess of beans 
baking all the time and are never without this dish. 
Even city folks have had royal good times at bean bakes 
given at some home with large yard, and, with an 
addition to the beans, salads, sandwiches, cakes, and 
other frills, generally scorned and passed by for the 
delicious baked beans. 

Naturally digging a hole in the ground and build- 
ing a fire does not constitute a dish of baked beans; 
among other things necessary might be mentioned the 
beans themselves. These are soaked over night and 
then placed in the iron pot; the best sort is the Eng- 
lish kettle with three iron legs and rounding bottom. 
Right in the center of the beans a place should be 



Suppers 55 

made for the pork. The pork should be pickled pork 
of a particular kind — fat on top, lean below and scored 
across the top. One pound of pork to one pound of 
beans is the allowance. For flavoring use one cook- 
ingspoonful of New Orleans molasses ; one teaspoonful 
of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt and one of pepper. 
Stir into the beans and fill even to the top of the pork 
with water. Given twenty-four hours of slow baking, 
with no chance for the moisture to escape, the result, 
is an ideal dish worth trying. 

To the camper who comes in when the sun is ting- 
ing the western sky with crimson, tired and hungry 
from carrying a gun or holding a fishing rod all day, 
there is no dish so appreciated as chowder. This dish 
is easy of preparation. Take peeled potatoes and par- 
boil them, then add fresh water, and put into the 
kettle the result of the day's chase. The little birds 
found along the streams, like squabs and sandpipers, 
are fat and give the chowder a fine flavor. In go the 
fish, squirrels and other small game, the fish of course, 
being boned. Add green corn cut from the cob, salt 
and pepper, and perhaps a little salt pork, though the 
little birds furnish fat enough. Serve smoking hot 
and as you stretch your tired limbs under the camp 
table, you will thank your stars that some genius in- 
vented chowder. 

The ideal way to cook fish in camp is to first clean 
the fish and then stuff it, if one chooses (though he 
need not stuff the fish unless he like) and then make 
a stiff mortar of clay and encase the fish. Lay it 
on the coals and when the clay cracks and peels off 



56 Suppers 

the skin of the fish comes off with it, leaving the pure 
sweet fresh meat, which retains the juices and delicate 
aroma of the fish. This way of cooking fish cannot be 
beaten. This is also a good way to cook corn- Just 
leave on the husks and lay the ears on the coals 
and by the time the husks have burned off the corn 
is cooked deliriously. In the regions where shad 
abounds, there is nothing to be compared with planked 
shad, and this is the most popular dish. The shad 
is fastened on an oak shingle and turned before the 
fire until it is cooked, when it will be found that the 
fish has absorbed the aroma of the wood and the re- 
sult is a flavor that delights epicures. 

Clam Bake. 

A clam-bake is a delight wherever and whenever 
partaken of, but when it is prepared in the piney woods 
of Cape Cod by the inimitable skippers of Buzzards 
Bay it is something that is not to be forgoten. It is 
a joy, from the gathering of the first stone to the 
swallowing of the last possible clam. 

The skippers of Onset are particularly noted for their 
skill in making clam-bakes. 

First select the stones, (which must be about the 
size of large paving blocks,) and arrange them in a 
circle. Then bring wood and chips and brush and 
lay them in the center, and thoroughly pile on top 
other blocks which have been collected. 

The pile of stones and wood being completed, the 
next thing is to set fire to it, and soon a merry blaze 



Suppers 57 

rises up, the flames licking around the stones and form- 
ing a pretty picture. 

The stones once hot enough the real work of the 
bake begins. The right amount of heat has been ob- 
tained, a barrow load of rockweed is brought — rock- 
weed, not seaweed. As soon as the rockweed is thrown 
on the red hot stones a salty, savory smelling steam 
begins to rise. 

First and foremost come two great barrow loads of 
clams which are spread on the steaming rockweed, 
then follow great piles of blue fish, each fish being 
stuffed and wrapped in a piece of cheesecloth to pre- 
vent coming into contact with the weed. 
— - The blue fish is carefully placed on top of the clams 
P~""~and following that is a heaping load of corn, with a 
rO few leaves left on each ear to protect it from the 
q weed. When the corn is piled high a barrow weighed 
^_ down with live lobsters is brought. 

Be particular over the disposition of the lobsters. 
Each one is placed with care and precision into the pre- 
cise spot where it will do most good. 

A milk pail full of fresh eggs follows the lobsters 
and the whole mass of food is buried in a stack of 
rockweed, and to complete the process a sail and a tar- 
paulin are drawn over the top and battened all down 
so that not a speck of steam can escape. 

While the guests play games or stroll along the 
shore, the men heat big, round stones in the oven. 
This is a deep hole lined with stones, and the fire 
is built in the hole. When the fire dies down the 
stones are left red hot. Then the chef places dozens 



58 Suppers 

of clams in their shells on the hot rocks. Then a 
blue fish wrapped in cheesecloth and then half a dozen 
chickens prepared for broiling and wrapped in a sim- 
ilar way are placed in the hole. Next comes a peck 
of Irish potatoes with their jackets on, and three dozen 
ears of sweet corn. Over it all is packed seaweed and 
then heavy canvas, and then the guests sit patiently for 
three-quarters of an hour until the steam has thor- 
oughly cooked the supper. When it is done it is fit for 
a king, and is served on a long table of boards, on 
wooden platters, with big watermelons for dessert. 

Nutting Party. 

A nutting party is particularly appropriate to be giv- 
en during the fall season. 

The invitation may be written on paper, folded neat- 
ly and slipped inside an English walnut shell — which 
is then glued together and sent in a small box, labeled 
"A Nut to Crack." 

Decorations should carry out, as far as possible, the 
effect of a woodland scene. The walls may be entirely 
covered with branches of autumn leaves, and mantels 
and over doorways banked with pine boughs and green- 
ery of all sorts. Rustic tables and chairs, if avail- 
able, are most appropriate, and lights shaded with red 
or yellow shades. As the guests arrive, each should be 
given a peanut shell, glued together or tied with rib- 
bons. On a slip of paper inside is written the num- 
ber of table and partner. To indicate progressions, 
ribbons may be glued to nuts of different kinds and one 



Suppers 59 

given for each game won. Or little baskets may be 
given into which a nut is dropped for each game won. 
Or if tally cards for finding partners are preferred, 
they may be painted to represent nuts of different 
kinds, not more than two being alike. 

The nutting game itself is played similarly to that 
well known children's game, "jackstraws." On each 
table is placed a pair of bonbon tongs — the kind that 
come in candy boxes are best — and a tall tumbler 
heaped full of nuts — peanuts are best for the purpose 
— with one gilded nut. For the first game, lady No. 
i at all the tables begins play and after the first game 
the lady begins who lost in the game preceding. The 
gentleman opposing the lady who begins play, care- 
fully turns out on the table the peanuts and the play- 
ers proceed as in jackstraws, getting with the tongs 
as many peanuts as possible, one at a time, without 
shaking the others. The winners progress and change 
partners, after the bell rings at the head table. At the 
head table, as at the other tables, the winners progress 
and the losing lady remaining begins play for the next 
game. At the head table each player has two chances 
at the peanuts and then the bell is rung. The natural- 
color peanuts count one each and the gilded one ten. 

Suitable prizes are: For the ladies, a silver Eng- 
lish walnut thimble case; a linen centerpiece in chest- 
nut design; a silver almond charm, "Philopena," 
which opens with kernel inside; a silver English wal- 
nut, exact size, which opens, containing powder puff, 
mirror, place for miniature, small scent bottle and pin- 
cushion, "All in a Nut Shell"; a real English walnut 



60 Suppers 

shell containing a fine lace-betrimmed handkerchief, 
enclosed in a series of boxes, one fitting within the 
other; a sterling silver almond set or almond scoop; a 
silver vinaigrette in exact reproduction of a peanut. 
For the gentlemen, a burnt wood nut bowl, with nut 
cracker and set of nut picks; a handsome edition of E. 
P. Roe's "Opening of a Chestnut Burr ;" a silver pea- 
nut magic pencil, etc. The shops show big paper 
mache English walnuts, peanuts and almonds, full 
of sweetmeats in imitation of the real nuts^ which make 
appropriate consolation prizes. French "surprise mot- 
toes" in the shape of walnuts, each containing a hat, 
make very amusing favors. 

The refreshments may perfectly carry out the nut- 
ting idea: \ 

Peanut Sandwiches, Walnut Sandwiches, 

Chicken and Nut Salad, 

Salted Nuts, 

Bisque of Almonds or Burnt Almond Ice Cream, 

Cocoanut, Hickory Nut, or Pecan Cake, 

Nut Bonbons, Festinos t ' 

Cheese Balls with English Walnuts, 

Coffee, 

For the peanut sandwiches, use the ready-made pea- 
nut butter. For walnut sandwiches, chop meats very 
fine, mix with mayonnaise and spread on buttered 
bread. Serve salad on lettuce leaf, garnished with a 
few whole nut meats. In salting mixed nuts, it is not 
considered necessary to blanch any except almonds and 
peanuts. The bisque of almonds requires one pound 
blanched almonds, one heaping cup of sugar and two 
pints of cream. Pound almonds a few at a time, to- 



Suppers 6 1 

gether with a little sugar and rosewater, mix with 
cream and freeze. For burnt almond ice cream use 
one quart oi cream, one-half pound of sugar, four 
ounces of shelled almonds, one teaspoon of caramel, 
one tablespoon of vanilla, 4 tablespoons of sherry. 
Blanch and roast almonds, then pound in a mortar to a 
smooth paste. Put one-half the cream and the sugar 
on to boil, stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add 
the remaining pint of cream and the almonds; stand 
away to cool; when cold, add the carmel, vanilla and 
sherry. Freeze and pack. For the nut cake, use two 
pounds nuts cut fine, eight eggs, one pound sugar, one 
pound flour, one teacup butter, two heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, one cup milk, and juice of one lemon. 
Mould the cheese balls round with the hands, and stick 
an English walnut meat on either side. 

Harvest Home Supper. 

The rooms can be trimmed beautifully with corn, 
asparagus, hops, Jack-o'lanterns, and so on. State in 
the invitations, which are to be tied in corn husks 
with grass, that a hay-rack will call for the guests. 

On each of the gate posts place huge Jack-o'lanterns. 
In fact, have these for illumination wherever one can 
find places to put them. For decoration use autumnal 
grasses, wheat, oats and corn, and festoon strings of 
them wherever possible. Make a frieze around the 
room of ears of corn from which the husks are pulled 
apart. This will form a festoon from which will hang 
down like tassels, the ears of white and yellow corn, 



62 Suppers 

and if one can find a few red ears so much the better. 

Bank the fire-place and corners with boughs of au- 
tumn leaves, and festoon them in garlands wherever 
there is a vacant place. Scrub the bare floors well, 
put a little wax on them, and engage one or two mu- 
sicians to dispense old time melodies. 

Carry out the Harvest Home idea in the dining- 
room. Have most of the decorations, fruits and gar- 
lands with graceful sprays of the Virginia creeper in the 
glory of its autumnal colors, festooned from doors to 
windows and back again, and have the table decora- 
tions the same. Serve the guests sitting around the 
room, with delicious turkey, ham, bread, sweet and 
sour pickles, doughnuts, cider, etc. By all means have 
pumpkin pie, which would be so much in keeping with 
the occasion. 

An Autumn Supper. 

Just before closing your cottage for the season, send 
out invitations, to friends, asking them to spend an 
evening with you at your home. The invitations may 
be written upon scarlet maple leaves. When the 
evening for entertaining arrives the cottage should re- 
flect the glory of the woods. Boughs and branches of 
silver and sugar maples decorate the hall, "den," din- 
ing room and kitchen, and berries, vines and burrs fill 
jars, vases and cornucopias of birch bark. In the 
rough stone fire-places, log fires burn. The guests 
go to the kitchen to make maple sugar creams, and 
while the candy is hardening, games are played and 
stories told. Each guest, blindfolded, must draw the 



Suppers 63 

outline of a maple leaf. Next, leaf shaped cards are 
distributed with the names of different trees written 
upon them, acrostically arranged. A nut race closes 
the games, and the prizes are then awarded. Then the 
company may gather around the fire. Bundles of 
lichen covered twigs, of pine cones and of twisted tree 
roots are selected according to individual fancy and 
put on the fire, each person telling a story, original or 
otherwise, until his bundle is burned away ; the chang- 
ing shapes in the fire suggesting many quaint fancies. 

For table decorations have a garland of leaves en- 
circle the polished top just outside the plates. A large 
wreath and a low bowl of nut burrs and sprays of bright 
leaves and berries make a gorgeous centerpiece. Have 
smaller wreaths around the bon-bon and nut dishes, 
and mats of leaves laid under the plates and dishes and 
used for doilies under the finger bowls. A birch bark 
cornucopia of maple sugar candy and a droll little nut 
Indian clad in a scarlet blanket by each plate make 
pretty souvenirs of the feast. Leaves can be pasted on 
the candle shades which are made of stiff-buff paper : 

Roasted Quail on Toast, 

Strawed Potatoes, 

Salad Sandwiches, Maple Layer Cake, 

Waffles, 
Nuts, Coffee, 

When the Frost is on the Pumpkin. 

The hostess who wants to provide a simple, and at 
the same time a novel entertainment for her friends 
should call to her aid the glossy, orange coated pump- 



64 Suppers 

kins. With pumpkins for the motif, so to speak, an 
evening full of fun may be enjoyed. Decorate square 
white cards with a huge pumpkin; one who cannot 
draw can cut a very presentable looking pumpkin from 
orange paper and paste it on the cards. Then write 
,on each: The Mighty Mammoth Pumpkin will be on 
exhibition at Mrs. Blanks, from 7 to 11 p. m., next 
Thursday night. You are cordially invited to come 
and guess its weight. Get the largest pumpkin you 
can find and a goodly collection of shapely, medium- 
sized ones. Make a record of the weight, the length, 
and the girth of the big pumpkin, then carefully cut 
open lengthwise and scoop out, and if trouble is no 
object count the seeds. Fill the pumpkin with sawdust 
and bury in it the souvenirs, simple little trifles, orange 
hued penwipers, needlebooks, pincushions, etc. Wrap 
them up in paper and bury them deep. Set the pump- 
kin on a mat of leaves on a small table and label 
"Hands Off." Each guest is given a card with a pen- 
cil attached to record his guesses. Little leather cov- 
ered inkstands, the exact counterpart of tiny pump- 
kins, and pumpkin paper weights equally as natural in 
appearance are appropriate for the head prizes, while 
pumpkin emery bags and pumpkin-shaped blotters will 
please the winners of the boobies. The rest of the 
evening may be spent in carving Jack o* Lanterns from , 
small pumpkins. The guests may be required to write * 
a recipe for pumpkin pie which will bring forth some 
wonderful flights of fancy. Decorate the rooms with 
pumpkin vases filled with chrysanthemums and have a 
bowl of orange fruit cup set inside of a large pumpkin 



Suppers 65 

for the guests' refreshment during the evening. In 
setting the table have a pumpkin vase of ferns and yel- 
low and white chrysanthemums for the center-piece. 
The supper is served from pumpkin dishes. Select 
round, deep pumpkins with a stem, choosing those of a 
pretty color and shape. Saw off the tops even, so they 
may be put back on the pumpkins as lids, scoop out and 
line with parchment paper. As this supper is very in- 
formal, sandwiches with various fillings, a rich chicken 
salad made with walnut meats and chopped celery, 
cheese and bread sticks and coffee may form the sub- 
stantial part. Stuffed figs and dates, bon-bons and mac- 
aroons are served for the sweet course and an orange 
ice or snow pudding in little pumpkin paper cases. 

A Dickens' Supper. 

A happy selection of time for a Dickens party is the 
Christmas season, which is so peculiarly connected with 
so many of Dickens' writings. m 

Have the rooms brilliantly lighted, and the bright 
berries of the Christmas holly against a background of 
the "ivy green" which Dickens loved. The hostesp, 
might dress in a handsome costume of the time of Edith 
Dombey. 

The guests can each represent some character of 
Dickens. 

Betsy Trotwood, tall and rigid in stiff gown and 
tight cap. 

Dora, young and blonde, with infantile manner. 

Peggotty, buxom and tightly compressed into her 
gown. 



66 Suppers 

Dick Swiveller and the marchioness. 

Mrs. Tizziwig, "one vast substantial smile." 

Madame Defarge, stolid and plying her ceaseless 
knitting. 

Joey B., with his swagger, "Sly sir; devilish sly." 

Mr. Micawber, bland and portly. 

Little Nell and her grandfather, and so on with the 
characters which Dickens has made living creatures in- 
deed. Gathered in the reception rooms the group will 
make a quaint, lovely picture to the entering guest. 
When all the guests have arrived cards are distributed, 
on each of which is a water colored sketch of some of 
Dickens' characters. An English walnut shell tied 
with pink ribbon and attached to the corner of the card 
holds a quotation from Dickens, and beneath this nut 
is the pertinent quotation. "The Dickens to crack." 
A prize can be awarded to the one answering most cor- 
rectly from which books the different quotations were 
taken. 

Some of the pathetic scenes from Dombey and Son 
can be read by some one whose musical voice and gentle 
face, as well as intelligent reading, make this part es- 
pecially effective. The hostess can read an extract 
from verses headed "The Christmas Carol" in Pick- 
wick Papers. 

"My song I troll out, for Xmas stout 

The hearty, the true and the bold ; 
A bumper I drain and with might and main 

Give three cheers for this Christmas old! 
We'll usher him in with a merry din, 

That shall gladden his joyous heart, 
And we'll keep him up while there's bite or sup, 

And in fellowship good we'll part. 



Suppers 67 

Pass around small glasses of egg-nog and have toasts 
of Christmas cheer. 

For refreshments have delicious oyster and mush- 
room cream soup, cold wild duck, jelly and cel- 
ery. A frozen salad after this; it is made of tomatoes 
(canned) cooked a little, strained, and when cold 
mixed with a thin mayonnaise, then frozen, making a 
delight for the palate. The ice is a lemon ice frozen in 
individual molds very hard and covered with a hot 
chocolate sauce, making a most delicious blending of 
hot and cold, sweet and sour. A tiny glass of cordial 
completes the repast. 

For the prize for the quotations have a handsome 
copy of Christmas Stories tied with red ribbons and 
ornamented with a bunch of holly. For the booby 
prize have a bag of the buttons Peggotty burst from 
her gown when an exuberance of emotion filled her 
breast. 

A Boston Supper Party. 

■ When the guests assemble put them in charge of a 
man with a megaphone and start them through the 
rooms on a "Seeing Boston" tour. Have fake tablets 
and different objects to represent the places of interest. 
These objects could be numbered and turn the "Seeing 
Boston" into a guessing contest. Give each guest a 
note book and pencil to enter the correct name opposite 
the correct number. This can include side trips to 
Lexington, Concord, Bedford, etc. 

Take the folders and circulars of a trip through 



68 Suppers 

Boston, cut out the tiny pictures, mount on grey paper, 
letter with white ink and give them as souvenirs. Or 
remove all lettering and use these pictures as a con- 
test, asking the guests to name the pictures correctly. 
For amusement have "Paul Revere *s Ride" acted in 
pantomine, or charades on the different names. For 
supper serve pork and baked beans, Boston brown 
bread, pie, tea, etc Tiny earthen bean-pots, spectacles, 
handbags, imitation folders — any of these things would 
do for souvenirs. 

A Yatching Party. 

Have a large room fitted up as the deck and after 
deck of a steam yacht. To reach the room have the 
guests climb through a hatchway. Steamer chairs and 
nautical paraphernalia fill the deck and a dozen life 
preservers hang conveniently near. Have all the neces- 
sary rigging and a flag pole floating the yacht flag. The 
host and his guests should wear yachting costumes and 
the souvenirs be tiny red and green lanterns for the 
men and yacht stickpins for the girls. The menu cards 
are decorated with the insignia of the yacht and couched 
in nautical terms. Serve the following menu: 

Oysters in Block of Ice 

Celery, Stuffed Olives, Salted Wafers 

Rum Omelet 

Cold Ham, Cold Tongue, Olives 

Pate de fois gras Sandwiches, Rare Beef Sandwiches 

Roquefort Cheese, Hard Crackers 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Coffee 



Suppers 69 

A Butterfly Supper. 

Under the chandeliers, in corners and doorways, 
have butterflies fluttering from invisible silver wires. 
These butterflies are made from delicate hued crepe 
paper, their wings marked with rings of ruby, green, 
blue, gold and silver. Each guest is offered a butterfly 
on entering the drawing room ; the men wearing them 
as boutonniers, the women putting them in their hair. 

The host fastens a large paper butterfly, minus one 
wing and the antennae, to a curtain hung across a win- 
dow. Each guest, in turn, blindfolded, tests his idea 
of distance in trying to pin the wing and antennae on 
the butterfly. A set of six paper butterfly princess 
lamp shades is the woman's head prize. A butterfly 
whisk holder, containing a silver handled brush, is 
given the equally lucky man. The "boobies" are a 
miniature lantern and a toy spy-glass. 

In the dining room this supper is served. First a 
fruit drink, lemonade or grape juice. On the plate on 
which the glass cup rests have a small bunch of purple 
grapes. Decorate fish plates with lemon baskets hold- 
ing the sauce tartare. With broiled chops serve stuffed 
tomatoes and corn pudding moulded in cups with 
white sauce flavored with onion. Serve raspberry ice. 
For salad serve pears and German cherries sweetened. 
For dessert serve the nutmeg muskmelons filled with 
ice cream or ice. 

Have a tin-smith make a butterfly shaped cake cut- 
ter, four inches across the wings. Bake these cakes 
in a quick oven, ice them white, pink and green and 



70 Suppers 

then mark with rings of a contrasting color of icing. 
The centre scarf and doilies, of fine white linen, 
for the dining table, have a cut-out butterfly border 
worked with white silk and gold thread. A fairy 
rose-tree, trained on a bamboo trellis, the pot 
dressed in skirts of white and green paper and sash of 
satin ribbon, makes a most effective centre piece. Paper 
butterflies shade the candles, and a crepe paper covered 
box of bonbons, with a butterfly hovering over the top, 
stands beside each plate. Decorate the name cards 
with sketches of butterflies. 

Young Married Couples' Supper. 

For the young married couples' supper carry out the 
heart-shape idea. Outline large heart in smilax on the 
table. Have the smilax at least three inches wide. Dot 
it with clusters of roses, lillies of the valley or any pre- 
ferred flower. In the center have a mound of the 
same flowers and between the center and the smilax 
place individual candlesticks with white candles and 
shades to match the flowers. A few single flowers may 
be scattered over the cloth. For a menu serve a 
fruit cup in the parlor before asking the guests to the 
diningroom. At the table have first hot bouillon with 
a bit of lemon in it. Have the main course fried 
chicken and rice with shoestring potatoes, 'tiny red 
radishes, creamed cauliflower, pickles and hot rolls. 
Creamed sweetbreads on toast may be used for a 
course if wished. Serve salmon salad on a lettuce leaf 
and with it reception flakes on which grated cheese 



Suppers 71 

has been sprinkled and the wafers put in the oven just 
long enough to melt the cheese. To serve the chicken 
take a large chop plate, pile the rice in a snowy mound 
in the center and place the pieces of chicken around it, 
serving a spoonful of rice with each piece of chicken. 

A Head-Dress Supper Party.. 

For a head-dress party ask each guest to dress 
the hair in some fancy way. The men dressing in 
Washington, Jefferson and other wigs noted in history, 
while the ladies fix their locks according to noted beau- 
ties, queens, and others. Strings of pearls, tiaras, and 
jewels make a beautiful display. Conventional evening 
dress is worn in most instances, save where a ruff or 
frill is added to heighten the effect of the headgear. 
A prize is offered for the best head-dress. The minuet 
makes a pretty dance to finish the evening. 

For refreshments serve chicken salad in tomatoes 
hollowed out or cucumber boats, cheese wafers, stuffed 
olives, tiny pickles and squares of jelly, strawberries 
and plain vanilla ice cream, chocolate cake, coffee or 
chocolate. Serve fruit punch during the evening. 

A Quilting Supper. 

Build a little log cabin of twigs for the center of the 
supper table and arrange stick candy, bread sticks, 
celery, cheesesticks and other viands, log-cabin style, on 
pretty plates. Light the table by candles in old-fash- 
ioned candlesticks. Serve a hot course, oyster patties, 
sandwiches, potato salad, hot gingerbread, apple sauce, 
tea and coffee. 



72 Suppers 

Wedding Supper. 

First serve an orange or lemon ice. Serve this in 
tall glasses and decorate the top of the glass with a 
sprig of mint. Have the ice served from a tray deco- 
rated with a wreath of green or green and white. For 
the green have mint leaves, lemon verbena or geranium 
leaves or ferns. Then serve chicken salad made of the 
breast of chicken cut in dice, celery cut coarse, and 
large nut meats. Add sweetbreads and cucumbers 
to the salad if desired. Mix with a white mayonnaise 
and serve in white head lettuce, using the cup-like 
outside leaves. Use the tiny lettuce heart for a crown, 
and garnish with white radishes cut into roses, and 
jlives cut in fancy shapes. Serve plain white bread 
and butter sandwiches cut in hearts and rings or salted 
wafers. Have the salad on white plates and passed 
from a tray trimmed in ferns or white sweet peas. 
Have the ice cream in any fancy shape. Pink hearts 
dotted with pink candied roseleaves makes a very pretty 
course. Lay a pink rose on each plate. If one can- 
not get fancy shapes from their caterer, use the cone 
shaped spoon and dish the cream in shape of cones. 
Then surmount each cone with a pink candy heart. 
For cakes, serve cocoanut balls or squares of white 
cake covered with pink or green icing. Serve these 
from a tray or platter covered with pink and white 
sweet peas, putting the cakes in among the flowers. 
Have the wedding cake on a flower trimmed table 
under a gay little canopy and have the bride cut it the 
last thing, after coffee is passed. 



Suppers 73 

A Waffle Supper. 

Let us have a waffle party and introduce some of the 
men to more intimate acquaintance with the mysteries 
of the cuisine. 

Flat dwellers (the word always reminds me of "Cliff 
dwellers") seem to consider that the propinquity of the 
kitchen makes entertaining a difficult matter, but if the 
truth were known, it makes possible many a winter 
evening's jollity. 

The invitations are made of cream white satin, 
fashioned in the exact shape and size of a waffle sec- 
tion, padded with white cotton wadding and tacked to 
simulate the meeting place of the irons. They are then 
scorched to the right color with a hot iron and on them 
is printed in sepia tints 

"Come and eat me;" 
on the reverse side is printed 

Date " , at 8 P. M. Ave." 

Use the abbreviated forms for this lettering on ac- 
count of the difficulty encountered from limited space 
and the writing on satin. 

Before the evening arrives prepare cards about four 
by six inches, in the center of which print a much 
praised recipe for waffles, reading as follows: Six cups 
flour; three teaspoonfuls baking powder; four cups 
milk ; three tablespoonfuls butter ; one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls salt ; nine eggs beaten separately. Mix flour, 
baking powder and salt, yolks with milk, then melted 
butter, flour and last the beaten whites. 

In the upper left hand corner of the card have a 



74 Suppers 

small pen and ink sketch of some cooking utensil and in 
the right hand corner a number. In the center a rib- 
bon for fastening. The utensils are as follows: i. 
Waffle irons. 2. Mixing bowl. 3. Milk bottle. 4. 
Salt box. 5. Eggs. 6. Egg beater. 7. Butter. 8. 
Flour sieve. 

It is possible to introduce as many different cooking 
utensils as there are guests. 

After half an hour's visit let the guests all repair to 
the kitchen where the numbered articles are to be 
found. No. I, to whom is apportioned the two 
waffle irons, lights the gas under them, greases the irons 
when hot with a square of salt pork on the end of a 
fork and — later — cooks the first waffle, but that comes 
later on. Each secures his special utensil. 

The Master of Ceremonies takes charge and calls off 
the various ingredients in proper order. Number 2 
warms the mixing bowl slightly, Number 3 unstoppeis 
the milk and measures it, Number 4 measures the salt l 
Number 5 breaks the eggs and beats the yolks, Number 
6 beats the whites, Number 7 rrielts the butter, Num- 
ber 8 measures the flour, Number 9 produces and meas- 
ures the baking powder, etc. 

Finally, when all is ready and the Master of Cere- 
monies has superintended the proper mixing, the rest 
adjourn to the dining room, leaving numbers one and 
two to bake the first waffles. 

The Master of Ceremonies sits at the head and the 
numbers run consecutively from his right. The, swing- 
ing doors through the butler's pantry are propped open 
so as not to isolate the cooks and the supper begins. 



Suppers 75 

At one end of the table have a medium sized veal 
loaf, at the other a mould of tongue jellied with hard 
boiled eggs. Chocolate is poured at one side of the 
table, coffee at the other. Marmalade, pickles and 
graham bread cut thin and made into sandwiches are 
placed in small dishes. Two large bowls of whipped 
cream with small bowls of powdered sugar, two pitch- 
ers of maple syrup boiled down and beaten until thick 
as batter, are for service with the waffles. 

By the time the meats are served, the first sets of 
waffles are ready and the cooks pass them around. The 
next couple then pass to the kitchen to bake the next 
sets and so on until all are served. 

The Bohemian Picnic Supper. 

An indoor moonlight picnic is a new diversion. The 
lights should be hidden by soft white silk shades, giv- 
ing a moonlight effect, and the rooms decorated with 
foliage plants. A fishpond with grotesque objects, in- 
cluding a live mermaid, (a man in startling costume), 
is one feature. In one room is a "merry-go-round." 
The chairs are placed in a circle and a graphaphone 
in the center plays popular tunes. At 10 o'clock the 
doors to the dining room are opened. The table cloth 
is spread on the floor, surrounded by cushions. In one 
corner of the room are the baskets containing the sup- 
per of sandwiches, olives, pickles, baked beans, cake, 
pie and other picnic favorites. The girls take the 
viands from the baskets and arrange them on the floor, 
while the men serve coffee from a coffee boiler on a 



76 Suppers 

small table. During the meal each guest is obliged to 
describe some picnic he has attended or pay a forfeit. 

A Railroad Party. 

Have a "railroad party" if you like the refreshing 
flavor of informality at your social functions. 

Have the invitations read, "an excursion on the Fun- 
ville, Frolictown & Featherbrain Railway." 

To begin with, the rapidly gathering guests "get- 
ting aboard" are greeted by the hostess and her receiv- 
ing party, who cover their evening attire with spic-and- 
span linen dusters and caps. Down the line are dis- 
tributed a miscellaneous collection of peregrinating 
paraphernalia from the red and white cotton umbrella, 
which the hostess resolutely grasps in the middle, to 
the omnipresent hand-box and the traditional bird 
cage. 

With a final "all aboard" frbm a bustling man in 
regulation railway uniform, accompanied by the clang- 
ing of a bell, the trip to interesting cities begins. 
The conductor, in blue coat and brass buttons, promptly 
appears, to distribute tickets to the animated tourists. 
These tickets are in booklet form, inside the covers be- 
ing an eighteen-inch pink paper ticket. At the top is 
a space for the excursionist's name, and further down 
a series of spaces where the excursionist is to write 
the names of the various stations at which the train is 
to stop. The name of the station is suggested by a pre- 
ceding statement. This ticket, including "rules and 



Suppers * 77 

regulations," as well as correct insertions for the sta- 
tions, reads as follows: 

The Funville, Frolictown & Featherbrain Railway. 

Excursion Ticket 

Issued to 

Tuesday, 

Good for One Trip Only. 

Rules and Regulations. 

This Ticket is not transferable, reversible, or salable. 
It must be signed by the person to whom it is assigned. 

The conductor will not punch this ticket. Punch is pro- 
hibited on this railroad. 

If you cannot crack these nuts call on the brakeman. 

Do not pull the bell rope; this is not a Pullman car. 

The Company will not be responsible for cattle killed by 
the carelessness of the passengers who throw crackers out of 
the window. 

Doctors are not provided on this train, but if you have the 
grip it can be checked by the baggage master. 

The porter is the car-pet and he has to have his tax. 

The First Station at Which this Train Stops is: 

That for which our forefathers fought 
independence. 
The Second is: 

A female habiliment 

GALVESTON. 

The Third is: 

A military defense and a Paris dressmaker. 

FORT WORTH. 

Th* Fourth is: 

An ancient city whose downfall, after a long siege, avenged 

the abduction of a woman. 

TROY. 



78 » Suppers 

The Fifth is: 

An accident which generally gives one a ducking. 

BATH. 

The Sixth is: 

An opera encore. 

SING SING. 

The Seventh is: 

A city whose end and aim is "go." 

CHICAGO. 

The Eighth is: 
Begins with an exclamation, appeals to maternity, ends 

with a laugh. 

OMAHA. 

The Ninths is: 

A board of city fathers, in connection with a precipice. 

COUNCIL BLUFFS. 

The Tenth is: 

Where the seat of affection is easily waded. 

HARTFORD. 

The Eleventh is: 

One of the Apostles. 

ST. PAUL. 

The Twelfth is: 
A woman's Monday occupation and two thousand pounds. 

WASHINGTON. 

The Thirteenth is: 

An infernal region, a girl's name. 

HELENA. 

The Fourteenth is: 

What a young man called when his sweetheart Anna 

was drowning. 

SAVANNAH. 

The Fifteenth is: 

An afflicted stream. • 

CRIPPLE CREEK. 



Suppers 79 

The Sixteenth is: 

A small geological formation. 

ROCK ISLAND. 

The Seventeenth is: 

What most old maids desire to find. 

MANITOU. 

The Eighteenth is: 

A pleasing beverage and a period. 

WYANDOTTE. 

The Nineteenth is: 

Outward sign of spiritual grace and exclamation. 

SACRAMENTO. 

The Twentieth is: 

A young miss and a slang term of coin. 

GALLATIN. 

The Twenty -First is: 

The father of Democracy and a large town. 

JEFFERSON CITY. 

The Twenty-Second is: 

An extinct King of the Prairies. 

BUFFALO. 

The Twenty-Third is: 

A girl's name, a laugh and a tumble. 

MINNEHAHA FALLS. 

The Twenty-Fourth is: 

That upon which we rely. , 

PROVIDENCE. 

The Twenty-Fifth is: 

A bandmaster's staff and a society girl's cheeks. 

BATON ROUGE. 

Appropriate prizes — leather traveling bags — are 
awarded to excursionists who have done the most sight 
seeing — that is, who have guessed the names of most of 
the stations. In the mean time small boys in uniform 
pass through the "parlor cars" dispensing to the pas- 
sengers such train delectables as popcorn 'and peanuts, 



80 Suppers 

while other uniformed youths pass lemonade in "the 
time-honored tin receptacle with glasses in openings at 
the side. 

Suddenly the station supper gong is sounded and the 
»brisk announcement made, "Twenty minutes for re- 
freshments." Thereupon the lively excursionists pro- 
ceed in sections to the dining room where, the novel 
feature of the railroad party is cleverly carried out. 
Along one end of the room is constructed a high lunch 
counter with every equipment of the metropolitan 
station. There is the steaming coffee urn, the familiar 
glass covers under which repose pumpkin pie and 
doughnuts, old-fashioned cake-stands with fruit, and so 
on. Bright colored placards, on the wall announce the 
eatables, including chicken and ham sandwiches, stuffed 
eggs, hokey-pokey ice cream, assorted cakes, coffee, cho- 
colate and milk. 

The floral decorations in this "buffet car" are ef- 
fective. The white cloth that covers the counter and 
extends to the floor is festooned with strings cf smilax 
and spotted with sprays of fern. On top of the coun- 
ter is a huge bowl of scarlet roses, and two immense 
palms behind the lunch counter make a pleasing back- 
ground. In all the coaches, in fact, flowers and foli- 
age are used in profusion. 

Literary Supper. 

Give each guest a card numbered, and ask him to 
draw thereon a picture which shall illustrate some 
well-known novel. When all have finished have them 



Suppers 8 1 

pass the cards and on a second numbered list write 
the titles of the books illustrated. Give a prize for 
the most perfect list and the best . illustration. Let the 
guests vote on the best illustration. 

Or, pin on the back of a guest the name of a charac- 
ter in a book, or the name of an author, and let him by 
questions discover his own identity. If he fails to 
guess and has to be told, he sits down. If he guesses 
correctly, another name is pinned on his back, and an- 
other, and so on. The one guessing the greatest num- 
ber of names receives the prize, which may be simply 
a bunch of flowers. 

Ask each guest to wear somethihg representing the 
title of a book. Give each a number as he enters and 
a list of numbers and let all place correct names op- 
posite the numbers on their lists. Write a simple love 
story, leaving blanks to be filled with names of books. 
This may be written on a large sheet of paper or on a 
blackboard, the blanks numbered and each guest given 
a numbered list to place words intended to fill blanks, 
or enough copies may be made for each guest to have 
a copy. 

Partners for supper may be found by cutting quota- 
tions in half and matching them again. Or one guest 
may be given the name of a book to find his partner in 
the author; or he may receive a slip containing the 
name of some man character in fiction, to find his part- 
ner in the corresponding woman character, as "David 
Copperfield would seek "Dora," "Mr. Micawber" 
would seek "Mrs. Micawber," etc. 

Serve pressed chicken or veal cut in squares resting 



82 Suppers 

on cress; sandwiches of white grapes and nuts, chop- 
ped pickle; fruit salad served in white lettuce leaves, 
cheese crackers, ice cream or ices, cake, coffee or choco- 
late. Make the cheese crackers by spreading a thin 
layer of cheese on the crackers and toasting them in 
the oven. 

A Peanut Party. 

Write invitations on cards cut out and painted to 
represent peanuts. 

Have them read, "Won't you come next Tuesday 
night at J o'clock and help me gather my peanut crop ? 
Cordially yours," 

When the guests assemble the night of the party, 
give each one a gay calico bag and a large wooden 
spoon. Then explain that they are to hunt for the pea- 
nuts on the lower floor of the house, and that the pea- 
nuts can only be taken up with the aid of the spoons. 
Half an hour is allowed to gather the peanut crop, 
and then the bags are marked with the gatherer's name 
and dropped into a large straw basket — the bag contain- 
ing the largest number of peanuts receives a prize. This 
hunt causes much merriment. 

When the time has expired and the bags are all in 
the basket, a large bowl of peanuts is put on a table 
and each guest given a needle and thread and told to 
make a necklace and pair of bracelets, — the best made 
set of peanut jewelry to be awarded a prize. The 
next feature of the evening's fun is making and dress- 
ing quaint little Chinese figures of peanuts. Crepe 
paper of various hues is provided for the costumes, and 



Suppers 83 

black thread for the queues. First the peanuts are 
strung to form the little manikins, then eyes, nose and 
mouth are marked on with ink. Jackets and trous- 
ers are next cut and made, and the little Ching-Changs 
are dressed. Pigtails are plaited and sewed on to the 
tops of the heads, then the hats go on and the little 
celestials are ready to be inspected by the judges. 
These dolls the guests keep as souvenirs of their skill. 

In the dining room have a small evergreen tree 
planted in a china jardiniere in the center of the supper 
table with little peanut owls perched on the branches 
of the tree. These owls have wings of light manila 
paper and are marked with ink to represent feathers. 
Big, staring eyes add a touch of realism. The owls 
are attached to the branches, singly and in groups, with 
glue. 

For supper serve creamed chicken patties, tiny hot 
rolls, brandied peaches or sweet watermelon pickle; 
salad of cucumbers and mayonnaise served on lettuce 
leaves or cress, peanut butter, and chopped smoked 
tongue sandwiches, ice cream served in sherbet glasses, 
assorted cakes, coffee or chocolate. 

Folk Lore Supper. 

Engage real colored singers to give a program of 
songs of the Southland, the old-time plantation melo- 
dies. Arrange the stage with a log cabin surrounded 
by sunflowers in the background and a cotton field in 
foreground, and have the singers costumed as field 
hands. Some of the best known and best liked songs 



84 Suppers 

include "Old Black Joe," "Swing Low, Sweet Char- 
iot," "Nobody Knows the Trouble I Am Seeing," 
"Nellie Gray," "Suawanee River," "Way Over Jor- 
danV "Ride up in the Chariot," "Massa's in the Cold, 
Cold Ground, "Dixie." Serve a fried chicken supper 
with rice, hot biscuits, syrup, cornpone, ice cream and 
cake and coffee. The program can end with buck and 
wing dancing, jigs and cakewalks. 

Cake Walk Supper. 

At this cake walk there is no walking for the cake. 
The cakes themselves walk for prizes. 

Ask each guest to dress representing a certain vari- 
ety of cake, but concealing the name of the particular 
cake represented." 

Give a prize to the person who discovers the largest 
number of names." 

One girl representing Wedding Cake can come with 
bridal veil, orange blossom wreath and shower bouquet. 

Fruit Cake may be suggested by a girl carrying a 
graceful basket of fruit which she distributes to the 
company. In her hair she may wear a crown of arti- 
ficial grapes and grape leaves." 

A woman of very diminutive size who might be 
thought to be almost ineligible for the gathering be- 
cause she came without insignia of any kind might rep- 
resent short cake. 

And these are but a few of the ingenuities. The 
entire list is too long to give here, but each repetition 
is sure to call forth new ideas. 

The winner of the first prize receives a pretty china 



Suppers 85 

cake dish, while the second prize is a dainty cake knife 
in silver. There is a booby, too — a small cook book 
giving twenty-five choice recipes for cakes. 

The guessing of the cakes is followed by an informal 
supper. Serve 

Chicken Mousse with Lettuce and Nut Salad 

Brown Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Olives, Salted Almonds 

Peach Bavarian Cream Fancy Cakes 

Coffee 

Menu and Service for Bridge Supper Party. 

If one wishes a dainty and appetizing menu for a card 
supper serve sweetbread and celery salad, stuffed 
olives and tiny pickles, assorted sandwiches and plain 
vanilla ice cream with hot chocolate sauce, fruit cake, 
white cake and coffee. 

While the judges are counting the points for game, 
have the maid lay a lunch cloth on each table. Serve 
the sweetbread salad either in cucumbers hollowed 
out or in red or green pepper shells, resting on a 
wreath of watercress. A pretty effect is secured by 
using alternate green and red peppers and leaving the 
tops with the stem for covers. Tie the tiniest of red 
peppers to the stems with narrow green ribbon for dec- 
oration. The sweetbread salad is made of cold cooked 
sweetbreads and celery cut into dice and covered with 
mayonnaise. If one adds a few sliced almond meats 
and mushrooms the flavor is improved. Serve ham 
sandwiches cut in shape of playing cards and decor- 
ated with bits of pickled beets to simulate card spots, 



86 Suppers 

heart shaped sandwiches of chopped green peppers and 
mayonnaise, cucumbers and watercress mixed with 
mayonnaise, plain bread and butter sandwiches, us- 
ing brown and white bread. If one wishes a hot 
course, serve oyster or cream chicken patties and tiny 
hot rolls. The fork is brought on the plate with the 
salad or hot course. 

Serve ice cream in the sherbet glasses with stems. 
Place a lace paper doily on the plate, stand the 
glass on this and lay a pink rose on the plate. Pass 
the hot chocolate sauce in a silver or pretty china 
pitcher, or have it poured over the ice cream before 
it is brought in. Pass the coffee in after dinner coffee 
cups, the maid bringing in a tray full of the cups fol- 
lowed by an assistant with sugar, cream and after 
dinner coffee spoons. 

Cut the cake into squares and pass in silver basket 
or handsome plate with doily. 

"After the Theatre" Menus. 

Cold Chicken in Cranberry Jelly Cups 

Celery and Oyster Patties 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Lemon Jelly with Whipped Cream 

Ice Cream Lady Fingers Cocoanut 

Macaroons 
Bonbons Coffee 

Mushroom Patties 
Turkey and Celery Salad in Lettuce Cups 
Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 
' Pineapple Jelly with Whipped Cream 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Small Sponge Cakes 

Coffee with Whipped Cream 



Suppers 87 

Oyster Crabs on Steak. 

Since dealers do not sell oyster crabs at reasonable 
rates where they know their value or have a fashion- 
able trade, if economical, one has to find a modest 
oyster house where they do not bring a cent and more 
apiece, but are for sale in bulk. A few dozen at least 
are needed for the steak. Oyster crabs are tiny things 
and they shrink in cooking. 

The pan must be hot with plenty of butter in it. 
Throw in the crabs whole of course, for they are wee 
things, clean as an oyster, and let them cook to a turn.' 
Salt and pepper them and turn them over the steak 
which has been broiled exactly right. The oyster crabs 
must be cooked so as to be ready when the steak is done. 

A Cold Supper Menu for Hot Weather. 

Iced Consomme 

Celery, Salted Wafers 

Lobster en Mayonnaise, Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Cold Filet of Beef 

Saratoga Potatoes, Jelly, Brandied Cherries 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery, Green Peppers and Cucumbers 

Chicken Salad 

Roquefort Cheese, Toasted Crackers 

Ice Cream in C ante loupes 

Fruits, Crystallized Candies 



^Vc^ni 



88 Suppers 

CHAPTER VI. 

Toasts and Stories for Suppers. 

Her* to man, God's first thought, 

Heres to woman, God's second thought • 

A, second thoughts are best, "Herd's to W om,n •• 

—Detroit Free Press. 

hold out ? m£ ft "ogs^riUr^ "^ ""* * *""> 
never miw fire. P * e,r ,egs; ma y *» matche. 

To "One op the Boys." 

H ™£ 8 to a J 0,, y fe,, °w, 

Who is one of the boys. 
. And stays till he gets mellow, 
Sharing the drinks and joys. 

His glass he'll fill to the rim, 

And dash it out of sight. 
We can all tie to him, 

You bet, "he's all right!" 

He i^ ? y ? u ' as g00d as y°« »«. 

And here's to me, as bad as I am; 

IuflA 1 y° u are . »«•<• as bad as I am, 
lm as good as you are as bad as I am! 

— An Old Scotch Toast. 

Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen 
Here's to the widow of fifty- 

And fcLS 8 ?™f n S> « tra vagant queen, 
And heres to the housewife thafs thrifty! 
Let the toast pass; 

mi t 5, rink t0 the 'ass ; 

1 11 warrant she'll prove an excuse for the glass. 

— ■Sheridan. 



Suppers 89 

"The women, God bless them, we toast them alway, 
Lest the women, God bless them, roast us every day." 

While there's life on thr lip, while there's warmth in the 

wine, 
One deep health I'll pledge, and that health shall be thine. 

Lucille — Owen Meredith. 

Crown high the goblets with a cheerful draught; 
Enjoy the present hour; adjourn the future thought. 

— Dryden's Virgil. 

Here's to Love, a thing so divine, 

Description makes it but the less; 
'Tis what we feel but cannot define, 

'Tis what we know but cannot express. 

"To the Salad of Life. 

With its laughter and tears, its blessings and joys, 
Its mixture of peace and of strife. 
And may it be seasoned to each man's taste, 

With plenty of love for its dressing, 
And[ when we have eaten the last on the dish, 

Let us hope it has proven a blessing." 

"Clink, clink your glasses and drinkl 
Why should we trouble borrow? 

Care not for sorrow, 

A fig for the morrow! 
Tonight let's be merry and drink!" 

Here's to the prettiest, 

Here's to the wittiest, 

Here's to the truest of all who are true. 

Here's to the neatest one, 

Here's to the sweetest one, 

Here's to them all in one — here's to you. 



&23215B 



90 Suppers 

"Laugh at all things, 
Great and small things, 
Sick or well, at sea or shore; 
While we're quaffing, 
Let's have laughing — 
Who the devil cares for more." 

— Lord Byron, 

A toast to your hair, my loved one, 

A toast to your beautiful hair! 
It rests like a crown 
Of unmatchable brown 

On your brow so pure and fair. 
There's a charm in its lightness, 
An air in its brightness, 

That tangled my heart in its snare. 
Then pledge me, my fair one, 
My loved one, my rare one, 

A toast to your beautiful hair! 

— Bayard Bacon. 

Woman. The fairest work of the great Author. The edi- 
tion is large and no man can afford to be without a copy. 

He is the half part of a blessed man, 

Left to be finished by such as she. 

— Shakespeare. 

To Friendship — it improves happiness and abates misery, 
by the doubling of our joy and the dividing of our grief.— 
Cicero. 



Ho gentlemen ! lift your glasses ul 

Each gallant, each swain and lover — 
A kiss to the beads that brim in the cup 

A laugh for the foam spilt over! 
For the soul is a-lift and the heart beats high, 

And care has unloosened its tether; 
"Now drink," said the sage, "for to-morrow we die !" 

So let's have a toast together. 



Suppers 91 

Swing the goblet aloft; to the lips let it fall; 

Then bend you the knee to address her; 
And to drink gentle sirs, to the queen of us all — 

To the Woman that's Good — God bless her! — 
And I pledge my last toast, ere I go to my rest — 

O fortunate earth to possess her! — 
To the dear tender heart in the little white breast 

Of the Woman that's Good — God bless her ! 

Here's to the girl that's good and sweet 

Here's to the girl that's true, 
Here's to the girl that rules my heart — 

In other words, Here's to you. 

Here's to the land of the shamrock so green, 

Here's to each lad and his darling coleen 

Here's to the ones we love dearest and most 

And may God save old Ireland, — that's an Irishman's toast. 

A toast to Thanksgiving, 

A Paean of Praise, 

A health to our forefathers brave; 

May we honor the deeds 

They have done in the past, 

Hold sacred all that they gave. 

—-Estelle Foreman. 

An Englishman's Frank Toast. 

In cosmopolitan Los Angeles there are five gentlemen com- 
panions, each representing a different nationality, who from 
frequent association have become intimate friends. One is a 
Russian, one a Turk, one a Frenchman, one an American and 
one an Englishman. These five frequently assemble to- 
gether and tell of the comparative merits of the respective 
countries they represented and thus their companionship is a 
source of instruction as well as entertainment. Recently they 
gave a champagne supper to which a few friends were in- 



92 Suppers 

vited. During the course of this dinner it was proposed 
that each of the five give a toast to his native country, the one 
giving the best toast to be at no expense for the feast. The 
result was these toasts: 

The Russian — "Here's to the stars and bars of Russia, that 
were never pulled down." 

The Turk — "Here's to the moons of Turkey whose wings 
were never clipped." 

The Frenchman — "Here's to the cock of France, whos* 
feathers were never picked." 

The American — "Here's to the Stars and Stripes of Amer- 
ica, never trailed in defeat." 

The Englishman — "Here's to the rampin' roarin' lion of 
Great Britain, that tore down the stars and bars of Russia, 
clipped the wings of Turkey, picked the feathers off the cocV 
of France, and ran like h — 1 from the Stars and Stripes of the 
United States of America." 

The Englishman was at no expense for the feast. 

> 

"Why, Patrick, you seem to be in great pain — you have 
taken something that disagrees with you." "Yes, doctor, 1 
swallowed a potato bug be accident, and although I took 
some Paris green a minute after it don't quiet the disgraceful 
little baste. He's racing up and down and all round inside 
of me." 

"If you would refuse occasionally when those hateful men 
ask you to drink," said Mrs. Booce, "you would not be coming 
home in this condition. You lack firmness of character." 

"Don't you b'leeve nossin' of the sort," said Mr. Booce, 
with much dignity. "The fellers tried to start me home 
more'n two hours ago." 

Guest— -"Am I the unlucky thirteener?" 

Host — "No, you're the lucky fourteener. You're to fill up 

the gap." 

Guest— "All right; I've brought it with me." 






Suppers 93 

"Suppose you come and dine with us tomorrow? 
"Wouldn't the day after do just as well?" inquired the poor 

relation. 

'Certainly; but where are you going to dine tomorrow?" 
'Oh, here. You see, your wife was kind enough to ask me 

for that occasion. 1 ' 

At a dinner given in a home that was marked for the lit- 
erary acquirements of its members the conversation naturally 
turned to books and their authors. This was not much to, the 
liking of one young woman, who was more noted for her 
skill at golf and kindred sports than for her knowledge of 
romance and history. From time to time she attempted to 
start a discussion of outdoor games, but to no avail. At last 
her companion at the table turned to her with the inquiry: 

"And do you not like Kipling?" 

The fair young thing knitted her brows in thought for a 
moment, then answered blithely: 

"Kipling? I don't believe it has been introduced in our set 
yet How do. you kipple, anyway?" 

Book Agent — "Is the lady of the house in?" 
Cook — "We're all ladies here, yez moonkey-f aced divil ! If 
yez mane the mishtress, say so!" 

A Sunday-school teacher recently told her class about the 
cruelty of docking horses, says Our Dumb Animals. "Can 
any little girl tell me," she said, "of an appropriate verse 
of Scripture referring to such treatment?" A small girl rose 
and said solemnly, "What God hath joined together, let no 
man put asunder." 

"I am reminded of a sick man who had a talking wife. A 
doctor was sent for to prescribe for the husband. When he 
left he said to the wife: "Your husband is not dangerously 
ill. All he needs is rest, so I have prescribed this opiate." 

"How often shall I give it to him?" she asked. 

"Oh, don't give it to him at all. Take it yourself." 



94 Suppers , 

Scene: The bar parlour of the Prince George, Brighton. 
Pipes and beer all round. An old salt saying: — 

"I've got a riddle to ask you chaps. If a 'erring and a 'alf 
cost three farthings 'ow many could you buy for sixpence?" 

Profound silence, and much puffing of pipes. Presently a 
voice from the corner: — 

"I say, Bill, did you say 'errings?" 

"Yes, I said 'errings." 

"Drat it, I've been a-reckoning of mackerel all this 'ere 
time!" 

"An* phwat are yez a-doin' wid that pig in the sea?" 
"Shure, an' I'm a makin' salt pork av him afore I kill him." 

A story is told of a man who, having submitted himself to 
the manipulation of a venerable barber was told: "Do you 
know, sah, you remind me so much of Dan'l Webster?" 

"Indeed," he said, "shape of my head, I suppose? 

This staggered the aged colored man somewhat. He had 
not expected that there would be a call for an explanatory 
superstructure. "No, sah," he stammered in reply; "not yo' 
head, sah, it's yo' breff." 

"Speaking of mushrooms and toadstools, gentlemen," chimed 
in Dumley, "a friend of mine not long ago gathered a quan- 
tity of what he supposed were mushrooms, and took 'em 
home. His wife cooked 'em and the whole family ate heart- 
ily of 'em." 

"And did they all die?" inquired the crowd, very much 
shocked. 

"No, they happened to be mushrooms, you see," replied 
Dumley with a far-a-away look in his eye, "but it was a 
narrow escape." 

He was enjoying an ear of corn in the good, old-fashioned 
way. "You look as if you were playing the flute," his hostess 
remarked, smiling. "Oh, no," was the amiable retort; "It's a 
cornet I'm playing, by ear." 



Suppers 95 

London Landlady (to shivering lodger). — No, sir, I don't 
object to your dining at a restorong, nor to taking an 'apenny 
paper, but I must resent your constant 'abit of locking up your 
whiskey, thereby himplying that me, a clergyman's daughter, 
is prone to larceny. 

'Tat," said his young wife, "I wish you wouldn't put your 
knife in your mouth when you eat." "An' phwere would yez 
hev me put it," said Pat, in astonishment, "in me eyes?" 

First Lady — "What birthday presents are you going to 

give to your husband?" 

Second Lady — "A hundred cigars." 

First Lady — "And what did you pay for them?" 

Second Lady — "Oh, nothing! For the last few months I 

have taken one or two out of his box every day. He hasn't 

noticed it, and will be pleased with my little present and the 

fine quality of the cigars." 

"Arabella (scared) — "Oh, mammy! Miss Smiff say her ole 
man gits fits eb'ry time he come home drunk an' I's 'fraid I 
done cotch 'um." 

Mammy — "G'wan, chile ; fits ain' ketch in.' " 
Arabella — "Dey mus' be, kase Miss Smiff says she give 'em 
to him hesse'f." 

Mistress (greatly scandalized) — "Is it possible, Hannah, 
you are making bread without having washed your hands?" 

New Kitchen Girl — "Lor', what's the difference, mum? 
It's brown bread." 

Family Physician — "I'm afraid you have been eating too 
much cake and candy. Let me see your tongue." 
Little Girl— "Oh, you can look at it, but it won't tell." 

"Patrick, you told me you needed the alcohol to clean the 
mirrors with, and here I find you drinking it." 

"Faix, mum, it's drinkin' it and brathin' on the glass oi'm 
a-doin'." 



96 Suppers 

A clergyman was being shaved by a barber who had evi- 
dently become unnerved by the previous night's dissipation. 
Finally he cut the clergyman's chin. The latter looked up at 
the artist reproachfully and said, "You see, my man, what 
comes of hard drinking." "Yes, sir," replied the barber, con- 
solingly, "it makes the skin tender." 

They began by making much of his office, and the great 
qualities necessary to properly fill it. They laid stress upon 
the decay of the standard of fitness, and congratulated them- 
selves that they had at last met with an instance where the 
man did honor to the office. 

The mayor stood it for some time, and then in the blandest 
manner remarked: 

"You make me more worthy, gentlemen, than I really am. 
I am not a genius, nor yet am I a sot or a simpleton, but 
rather, if you wil permit such self measurement, something 
between the two." 

First Quick Lunch Waitress — "Say, but that dude is gone 
on Molly!" 

Second iuick Lunch Waitress (enviously) — "Ain't he? 
When he orders 'beans and draw one and sinkers' from her 
he puts such love in it that it sounds like 'Paddy defoy grass, 
coffee o'lay and Parker House rolls.' " 

"Will you have a piece of the pie, Mr. Goodman?" asked 
Bobby's mother of the minister. 
"Thanks, no," he replied. 
"Will you, Bobby," she inquired. 
"No, I think not," said Bobby, rather hesitating. 
The minister looked at Bobby in surprise. 
"I thought all little boys were fond of pie," he said. 
"They are," replied Bobby. "I could eat that hull pie, but 

ma said if r^l rijLir!L?jHL^Y l mustn,t » and shcd savc lt for 
tomorro^^'Vk PurTl/o/? 




■\ 



* 



ra;.-*. 



■$%& 






# 



■?A 



v 



V 4 



i^r 



',** 






>> 



$ 

^>>. 



_-r-^. •*,->, -> 






:•*.> 






& 



1*. 



K -^ 



.V^T^ft 






^ 



.^ 



2f?S 



-? 






"*( 



l ^ 






> 



?* 



-h^"- 






r ^ -r> 



>r 



Xc-.{ 






^^r 



^ 



> .»- 






:VfV.^? 



$c 






-r 



M 



W^> 






i>W< 



^3^' 

&■ 



V 



/a / 



■•& 



'■^H 



yt- 



ft 



i$ 









>^> 









>A 



& 



;^*V 



Vil**.- 






K /\ JU 



^ 



:>fe 



;v. 



7* 



Xci 



■f- ^ 



"A 






^ 



Vv.V 



3&# 



tfg 



4; 



r v > ^f,i 



a;u- ~> 






« 



,^f' 






_S ' >\ 



^ 



:v^, 






*: 



3s 



^ 



& 



; v -( '^ ;, X- 



V 









^r> 






^ 



v - 






7* —r-.- 



K sL. 



^> 



37' 



^: 



.r" 7---J 



'Tt' 



*r^, vV 



ft- 



ktft* 






'v ■ y_ ■ \: 






,^ .. - V 






. ... .. 



5^# 



^ 



;>**<, 



;u 



■r%. 






- > OiV^X 



sSx 



7^ 



^r5: 



3^ 






r^' 



\ 



W 



^ 



•.^ 



r^Wl 



"^ 



K. 



-^^ 



^ 



t 



rr^KH 



§&£&*&*£: 







F ^SL 




*• -• ill- 



•*•• 



