Ho 
■1^ 



;co 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essentialsofmilkOOjensuoft 



ESSENTIALS OF 



MILK HYGIENE 



A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DAIRY AND MILK 
INSPECTION AND ON THE HYGIENIC PRODUC- 
TION AND HANDLING OF MILK, FOR STUDENTS 
OF DAIRYING AND SANITARIANS 



BY 

C. O. JENSEN 

Professor in the Royal Veterinary and Agricultural College of C'openhagen, Denmark. 



TRANSLATED AND AMPLIFIED 
BY 

LEONARD PEARSON 

Dean of the Veterinary Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, State Veterinarian 

of Pennsylvania, Member of the Advisory Board of the State Department 

of Health, and Member of the Board of Health of Pliiladelphia. 



ILLUSTRATED 





PHILADELPHIA AND LONDON 
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 



Copyright, 1907 

BY 

J. B. LippiNcoTT Company 



Published June, 1907 



Electrotyped and printed by J. B. Lippincott Company 
The Washington Square Press, Philadelphia, U. S. A. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

AuTHOR^s Preface (to the English edition) v 

Translator's Preface vii 

Introduction 9 

Milk and its Composition 12 

Harmful Properties 60 

Pasteurization and Sterilization 128 

The use of Milk for Infants 147 

Public Control of the Production and Handling of Milk 157 

Appendix I. The Milk Supply of Copenhagen 239 

Appendix II. German Instructions for Producing Nursery 

Milk 249 

Appendix III. The Milk Commission of Philadelphia 251 

Appendix IV. A Score Card for Dairy Farms 257 

Appendix V. The Milk Commission of Essex Co., New 

Jersey 259 

Appendix VI. Report of the Royal Commission on Tuber- 
culosis 269 

Index 271 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 

(to the ENGLISH EDITION.) 



In the hygienic movement of the times the control of 
the production and handling of milk has not been given 
a prominent place. But the significance of this subject 
is now plain and everywhere efforts are being made to 
institute such a control or to improve it. The efforts of 
cities to secure a wholesome supply of milk must of 
course differ and be adapted to local conditions, but 
they must all be governed by the same principles and 
rest on exact knowledge of the composition of milk and 
of the dangers that are to be avoided. 

In the preparation of this book it has been my hope 
that it would not only be of use to my Danish col- 
leagues, but that my colleagues in other countries would 
find it to be of service to them. For this reason I pub- 
lished a Danish and a German edition simultaneously 
and for the same reason I have been very glad to grant 
Prof. Pearson's request for permission to prepare an 
English edition. 

C. 0. Jensen. 



TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE. 



The production of market milk is a rapidly growing 
industry. The demand for milk in cities is continually 
increasing and there is reason to believe that the rate 
of increase will advance. 

The milch cow transmutes the pasturage and forage 
of the farm into edible protein, lactose and fat — into 
units of nutriment for man — at less than one-half the 
cost of similar units in beef produced by the steer. 
Milk is not only the most economical but, when pure and 
undefiled, it is among the most wholesome and it is 
the most easily digestible of all foods of animal origin. 
These are the strongest possible reasons for its extended 
use. 

On the other hand, there is no other food that, under 
ordinary conditions, is so exposed to contamination, 
that is so easily contaminated or that so fosters contami- 
nation as milk. Hence the necessity for the study of 
milk hygiene. 

The subject is a broad one. Milk hygiene involves 
some knowledge of the physiology of cows, especially 
with relation to breeding, lactation and nutrition; of 
comparative pathology, particularly the various dis- 
eases of the udder of the cow, the abnormal conditions 
that affect milk secretion, and the infectious diseases 
of cattle and of man that may be transmitted by milk ; 
of bacteriology, in regard to the pathogenic organisms 
and the saprophytes that occur in milk, their effects, 
their behavior under various conditions and especially 
at different temperatures ; of the chemistry of milk and 
its adulterations and, besides these, there must be added 

vii 



TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE 

certain, important chapters from animal husbandry, 
dairy husbandry and dairy industry. 

Until quite recently, milk inspection in the United 
States has been carried on by untrained men who have 
had little, if any, knowledge of the sources or nature of 
the contaminations of milk or of the means by which 
they must be avoided; their whole technical equipment 
has consisted in a few rule-of-thumb tests to detect 
gross adulterations. A large number of milk inspection 
services are still organized on this basis. In several 
cities, however, attention has been paid to microscopic 
and bacteriologic examinations of milk, and it has been 
shown that a very large proportion of the supply fails to 
meet even a moderate standard for cleanliness, thus re- 
vealing the need for measures at the seat of production 
and during transit to prevent injurious contaminations. 

It is becoming increasingly manifest to sanitarians 
that more must be done to protect consumers from the 
unwholesome conditions and the diseases propagated 
and transmitted by milk and the broader men in dairy 
industry realize that milk must be made safe and be pro- 
tected if it is to find and retain its proper place in the 
dietary of the people. 

This makes a demand for a discussion of milk 
hygiene from the standpoint of the sanitary supervision 
of market milk — from the side of the man who is to do 
the practical work of protecting the milk supply — and it 
is this demand that Professor Jensen's book is planned 
to meet. 

Leonakd Peakson. 



Vlll 



PART L 



INTRODUCTION. 

Cow's milk has a peculiar place among our food 
stuffs in that it is not only an important and indispens- 
able part of the daily dietary of most people, but it is 
being used more and more for the feeding of infants and, 
indeed, is often almost the exclusive food for children 
during the first years of life. It is, therefore, quite natu- 
ral that at present when the science of hygiene is receiv- 
ing so much attention — especially in relation to the large 
cities — that there should be a demand for a reliable 
supervision of market milk. It is true that the milk 
trade in cities has been subject to a certain inspection, 
but attention has been directed to only one side of the 
question, to the possibility of adulteration, and to pro- 
vide that fat is not removed and that there is no 
alteration in the composition of the milk. From the 
standpoint of hygiene this is merely of secondary im- 
portance because it is in other ways that milk acquires 
dangerous properties and may, indeed, become the 
means of spreading virulent diseases. 

A properly organized milk control of the present 
day can not, therefore, be restricted to determining 
that milk offered for sale is unadulterated. On the 
contrary, it must be its chief purpose to prevent milk 
possessing injurious properties from coming into the 
market and to prevent market milk from acquiring such 
properties during the time that it is being handled and 
stored. Since it is possible only by means of a thor- 
ough, tedious examination to determine whether a given 

9 



10 MILK HYGIENE 

sample of milk is unwholesome, milk control can not be 
restricted to a simple inspection of the milk or to taking 
a sample for further examination. To insure real 
safety, the inspection must he broadened to cover the 
health and feeding of the cattle, the cleanliness of the 
producing plant, the method of handling and caring for 
the milk and the condition of health of the people ivho 
come in contact ivith it. Milk control is, for the reason 
stated, more difficult and more expensive than, for 
example, meat inspection, and this is undoubtedly one 
of the principal reasons why the control of milk produc- 
tion and the milk trade is so defective in most countries. 

During recent years, a somewhat comprehensive con- 
trol of the milk trade in its various relations has been 
carried out in a number of large cities, but a thoroughly 
satisfactory system does not exist and will be difficult 
to establish on account of its cost. In Denmark, a 
long step has been taken in the matter of milk control 
through the voluntary initiative of a single large com- 
pany which, at a time when milk hygiene was receiving 
little attention, inaugurated a very comprehensive 
system of control, and thereby set an example that has 
been followed by other large companies, not only in 
Copenhagen but also in foreign countries. These com- 
panies have, in some respects, carried their control to 
a point far beyond that contemplated at the time by 
the public authorities. 

Copenhagen is on the point of supplementing its 
health laws in relation to the milk trade within its 
limits. 

As it is chiefly through the work of Veterinarians 
that meat inspection has gradually increased and is how 
conducted in a scientific manner, so, to a large extent, 
we have to thank the Veterinarians for the fact that 
the control of the production and sale of milk is grow- 



INTRODUCTION 11 

ing steadily. Not only is important scientific work 
being carried on by them in several directions, which 
supplements the work of chemists and physicians, but 
the necessity for milk control is constantly being pointed 
out in meetings of veterinarians, in the International 
Veterinary Congresses and in the Congresses for 
Hygiene. A special journal is devoted to questions 
pertaining to milk hygiene, in conjunction with meat 
inspection, and separate courses in milk hygiene are 
given in many Veterinary Colleges. 

What follows is essentially the substance of lectures 
given by the author in the Veterinary and Agricultural 
College of Copenhagen. On some points in the prepara- 
tion of the book, the lecture notes have been expanded ; 
for example, in citing the instances of disease resulting 
from milk possessing injurious properties. Since vet- 
erinarians are frequently consulted, by sanitary officers 
and by dairymen, in regard to the adulteration of milk, 
it is considered to be desirable to discuss rather thor- 
oughly the composition of milk, the variations that occur 
under different conditions, and the adulterations. It is 
also considered to be appropriate to briefly treat upon 
the use of milk as food for infants. 

Division of Subject 

The subject matter of this book is divided into the 
following parts: 

Milk and its composition. 

Injurious properties that milk may possess. 

Pasteurization and sterilization of milk. 

The use of milk for infants. 

In order to prevent the expansion of the book to 
unnecessary proportions, the hygiene of other dairy 
products as cheese and butter, and milk preparations 
as condensed milk, milk powder, etc., is not discussed. 



PART II. 

MILK AND ITS COMPOSITION. 



I. THE MILK GLANDS AND MILK SECRETION. 

The tissue of the milk glands is shown by macro- 
scopic examination (Fig. 1) to be composed of small 
lobules separated by bands of connective tissue in which 
lie the larger blood vessels, the nerves and the excretory 
ducts and in which there is sometimes a considerable 
quantity of fat tissue. The gland tissue itself is com- 
posed of complexly branching glandular tubes which, 
during the period of lactation, are provided with 
numerous globular distensions, so that the type of the 
milk gland is intermediate between that of the alveolar 
and tubular types. The glandular pockets are provided 
with a memhrana propria (Fig. 2) and are lined with 
epithelial cells. In young and farrow animals, the cells 
are thin and square or high and narrow, and resemble 
superficial epithelium. During the period of lactation 
these cells become large and tense. This epithelium is 
usually composed of but a single layer, although, in old 
cows, it is sometimes found to be composed of several 
layers. 

Toward the end of gestation, the secretory function 
of the udder begins with the production of colostrum or 
the so-called "beast milk." This is a thick, reddish or 
yellowish fluid with a taste more salty than that of nor- 
mal milk, and under the microscope (Fig. 3) it is seen 
that it contains numerous free fat globules and a large 
number of round or mulberry shaped cells — the so-called 
colostrum bodies — that are filled with fat globules. 

12 



Fig. r. 




Sfction of udder tissue of a cow. Low magnification. One entire lobule is shown and 
parts of tive others. Microphotograph. 



Fig. 2. 










^; 



Section of the udder tissue of a cow. High magnification. Shows individual glandular 
pockets with their endothelial lining and the connective- tissue framework. Micro- 
photograph. 



Fig. 3. 




*• •, 






l> 







Colostrum.— The udder secretion of a cow that has recently calved. Stamed lightly with 
osmic acid, causing the fat globules to become dark. Shows several colostrum bodies 
and fat globules, Microphotograph. 



Fig. 4. 




Milk.- The fat globules are shown as light circles on 
photograph. 



dark background. Micro- 



THE MILK GLANDS 13 

Some cells are seen that have a distinct amoeboid 
movement; these are leucocytes that have wandered 
through the epithelium into the glandular pockets and 
have taken up some globules of fat. Besides these, 
there are to be found some epithelial cells that have 
undergone more or less degeneration. 

The chemical examination of colostrum shows its 
principal constituents to be: water, proteids (especially 
globulin and albumin, and also casein and nuclein com- 
pounds), sugar, fats and cholesterin, and, besides these, 
lecithin, various salts and other substances in smaller 
quantities. Colostrum differs from normal milk in its 
higher percentage of solids and especially in its higher 
content of globulin, albumin, nuclein compounds and 
lecithin. The chemical composition of colostrum differs 
slightly among animals of different species. In the 
course of a few days, the secretion of colostrum passes 
into milk secretion so that at the expiration of about 
one week, the secretion possesses the characteristic ap- 
pearance and composition of milk. 

The microscopic picture of milk is quite different 
from that described above. A very large number of 
fat droplets (milk globules. Fig. 4) of varying sizes, and 
a small number of more or less degenerated cells (colos- 
trum bodies, gland cells) are distributed uniformly in 
a transparent fluid, the milk plasma. 

It was formerly thought that milk secretion differed 
in important particulars from other secretions in that, 
it was considered, it occurred through partial destruc- 
tion of the gland cells. It was supposed that during 
secretion the cells became longer and swollen, that the 
nucleus receded to the base of the cell while the part 
pointing toward the cavity of the alveolus became filled 
with numerous small fat globules. It was thought that 
after this ^^ fatty degeneration '^ reached a certain 



14 MILK HYGIENE 

stage, there was a pouring out and solution of this 
part of the cell, that the fat globules were transformed 
into milk globules and the albuminous part of the cell 
protoplasm became part of the milk fluid and that the 
remaining portion of the cell, with the nucleus, was soon 
regenerated, whereupon a fatty degeneration again oc- 
curred in the regenerated portion of the cell. Recently, 
doubts have arisen as to whether, during the production 
of milk, there is, after all, a material disintegration of 
the cell protoplasm. Ottolenghis 's investigations appear 
to show clearly that milk secretion is an active cell 
process precisely as other secretions are, and that it 
does not depend upon the destruction of the cell. The 
destruction of entire cells and their elimination appears 
to occur only to a limited degree, but the presence of 
karyokinetic figures shows that, here and there, in the 
gland, such a disintegration does occur with consequent 
reproduction. 

The milk from animals of different species contains 
the same ingredients, namely: water, albuminoids (es- 
pecially casein and albumin), milk sugar (lactose), fats 
and inorganic salts. In regard to quantitative compo- 
sition, there are marked differences between the milks 
of animals of different species. 

Among the ingredients of milk it is supposed that 
casein is the direct product of the gland tissue, globulin 
of the broken down parts of cells, while it is not known 
whether albumin originates at the same source or comes 
from the blood. Concerning the origin of lactose, there 
are different opinions. Some investigators suppose this 
material is formed in the liver from glycogen or related 
materials, while others think, and indeed with reason, 
that it is formed in the udder by synthetic building up 
of glucose and galactose. The latter cannot, as such, 
have been taken up with the food, but must have been 



THE CONSTITUENTS OF MILK 15 

formed in the body by a breaking down of the galac- 
tins of the food. Others regard lactose as a product 
of certain proteids (glycoproteids). Milk fat is de- 
rived partly from the fat in the food, partly from the 
fat tissues of the animal; but these fats undergo a 
material transformation in the tissues of the udder, 
so that certain easily recognizable fats, even when taken 
up in quantity with the food, are either not visible at all 
in the milk or appear in very small quantity or are 
merely transitory. Doubtless, milk fat — just as fat tis- 
sue — may also be derived from the carbohydrates of the 
food. Among the other ingredients of milk, citric 
acid does not originate in the food, but results from 
metabolism. 

Milk secretion, to a great degree, bears the impres- 
sion of specific action of the cells which, however, may 
be influenced by external circumstances, but usually only 
temporarily. This is naturally of great importance for 
the young animal, which is nourished entirely or chiefly 
on its mother's milk, as frequent and sudden changes 
in the composition of the milk would be harmful, if not 
dangerous. 

Milk secretion, it appears, may be checked through 
the influence of the central nervous system, but is regu- 
lated through the sympathetic nerve centres. In this 
connection, observations agree that certain irritant 
drugs (as pilocarpine) and other influences that decid- 
edly affect the secretory function of other glands, influ- 
ence milk secretion very little if at all; furthermore, 
section of the nerve trunks of the udder does not disturb 
secretion. 

II. THE CONSTITUENTS OF MILK 

As already mentioned, milk of different mammals 
consists essentially of the same materials, namely: 
water, protein, sugar, fats and inorganic matter; but 



16 MILK HYGIENE 

great differences are shown by quantitative analyses of 
the milk of the different species. 

Water. The quantity of water usually amounts to 
80 to 90 per cent, of the weight of the milk ; under certain 
circumstances and with some animals it is even consider- 
ably less. With the whale, the quantity of water is 
scarcely 50 per cent. 

Proteids. Of proteids, the three following are always 
found : casein, lactalbumin and lacto globulin. A kind of 
albumose-like compound is sometimes found in insignifi- 
cant quantity — the so-called animal gum — which is also 
found in certain tissue and in the saliva, and probably 
comes from the breaking down of glycoproteids (mucin, 
etc.). Moreover, other proteids are often described as 
normal constituents of milk (albumins, albumoses, meat 
acids, etc.), but it is safe to conclude that these do not 
occur in fresh milk, while such compounds are readily 
formed by bacteria and ferments and can be formed by 
chemical means. 

Casein is a nucleo-albumin and, as such, it contains 
phosphorus. It is insoluble in water, but, by virtue of 
its property as an acid, it forms soluble salts with alka- 
lies. There are two series of casein salts, basic and 
neutral ; the solutions of the latter have a milky appear- 
ance. Casein is found dissolved in milk in the form of 
a neutral lime salt, which aids in giving to milk its 
white, opaque appearance. When boiled, a solution of 
casein is overcast with a thin membrane of coagulated 
casein; but a real coagulation, as it occurs in albumins 
and globulins, does not take place. Wlien the fluid has 
reached a certain degree of acidity casein coagulates at 
75° C. and the precipitated casein is not again soluble. 
After the addition of diluted mineral acids or of acetic 
acid, casein is precipitated as flakes or lumps, but under- 
goes no chemical change and is again easily soluble in 



THE CONSTITUENTS OF MILK 17 

lime water and diluted alkalies. The separation depends 
only and solely upon the breaking down of the casein 
calcium compound. By rennet (chymosin, etc.) casein 
is precipitated as flakes (human milk and donkey milk), 
or as a firm gelatinous mass {e.g. cow's milk). The dif- 
ferent modes of precipitation do not appear to come 
from the differences in the casein, but are due to the dif- 
ferent salt content of the different kinds of milk. Under 
the influence of chymosin, casein is transformed into 
paracasein, which in its compound with lime is insoluble 
in water and, therefore, may be precipitated in this way. 

The action of the rennet ferments is quite different 
from the precipitation of casein by acids. With the pre- 
cipitation of paracasein, an albumose-like proteid re- 
mains in solution (whey proteid), so the action of the 
rennet ferment is to split the casein. By the growth 
of bacteria in milk, the casein is often thrown out of 
solution, either as a result of the formation of acids 
or by the chymosin-like effect of ferments produced by 
bacteria. Sometimes the separation occurs from the 
joint action of the ferments and the acids that are 
formed. In pepsin digestion, casein is dissolved with the 
formation of albumoses (caseoses) and paranuclein, 
which is rich in phosphorus. In the organism, para- 
nuclein is dissolved by the pancreatic juice, is absorbed, 
and is excreted with the urine as phosphoric acid. 

It has often been said that casein, as it is found in 
the milk of different animals, is not the same and, as 
evidence of this, reference has, incorrectly, been made 
to the different ways in which casein separates from 
milks acted upon by rennet. A more important indica- 
tion, although the observation requires confirmation, is 
in the claim that in the pepsin digestion of human milk 
no paranuclein is formed. According to Hammarsten's 
thorough work, casein appears to show no chemical dif- 

2 



18 MILK HYGIENE 

ference in different kinds of milk. The latest investiga- 
tions concerning the powers of the organism to form 
specific anti-albumins (precipitins) following the injec- 
tion of albumin solutions, prove, however, that the 
casein of different species of animals has certain dif- 
ferences, even though these are so slight that they can- 
not be detected chemically. 

The lactalhumin is very similar to the albumin of the 
blood, but it appears to differ from this in some particu- 
lars. It coagulates at about 70° C, and, like all other 
albumins, it is not precipitated in a neutral solution 
of sodium chloride and magnesium sulphate, but it is 
precipitated in a saturated solution of ammonium 
sulphate. 

The lactoglohulin occurs in milk in very small quan- 
tity, merely in traces, while colostrum is comparatively 
rich in this substance. It coagulates at 75° C. ; it is pre- 
cipitated in the same way as serum globulin and, like 
serum globulin, is insoluble in water, but is soluble to 
some extent in weak salt solution. 

Carbohydrates. Of the carbohydrates, lactose, or milk 
sugar, occurs as a constant constituent in the milk of 
the cow and of most other mammals. Some investiga- 
tors claim that in colostrum there is a monohexose, 
which is probably glucose, and it is not unlikely that in 
the milk of certain animals other kinds of sugar appear ; 
for example, it is cited that a peculiar kind of sugar, 
tewficose, is found in considerable quantity in the milk 
of the Eg}^ptian buffalo. 

Lactose (C12H22O11 + HgO) is a disaccharid which 
is split by hydrolysis {e.g. by means of heating with 
dilute acids, action of ferments) into glucose (grape 
sugar) and galactose as follows: 

C12 H22 0„ -f- Hj O --= Ce H12 Og f Cg H12 Og 
Lactose Glucose Galactose 



THE CONSTITUENTS OF MILK 19 

Lactose lias been found only in milk and must be 
formed in the organism; but this formation, as has 
already been stated, is not yet thoroughly understood. 
Commercial lactose is derived from whey as hard rhom- 
bic crystals which have a slightly sweet taste and are 
soluble in six parts of cold water. By the action of 
micro-organisms, lactose may ferment in different ways. 
Certain yeasts and bacteria cause an alcoholic fermen- 
tation, while other bacteria split lactose, forming lactic 
acid (causing '^ souring '' of milk) and several other 
substances as by-products (CO2, H, formic acid, butyric 
acid, etc.) ; still other bacteria form as their chief pro- 
duct, butylalcohol, succinic acid or acetic acid. Certain 
moulds are able to form oxalic acid from lactose by oxi- 
dation. Lactose, like glucose, reduces Fehling's solution 
when heated. 

Fats are found in the milk as small droplets or glob- 
ules, which accumulate upon standing into a layer of 
cream, and which are easily separated from the other 
constituents of milk by means of centrifugal force. 
Upon shaking milk or cream, the globules of fat grad- 
ually coalesce into larger drops and lumps (butter). It 
was formerly thought that the fat globules were sur- 
rounded by a membrane, but now it is generally believed 
that it is not so. However, under the microscope one 
can see a border on certain individual fat globules, 
which is to be regarded as a remainder of broken-down 
cell protoplasm. 

Milk fat consists of a mixture of different fats, the 
principal of which are olein, palmitin and stearin, 
which are the neutral triglycerides of the correspond- 
ing fatty acids. Besides these are found the triglycer- 
ides of myristic acid and of butyric and capronic acids 
(the last two volatile) and also traces of triglyceride of 
other fatty acids (caprylic, caprinic, laurinic and arach- 



20 MILK HYGIENE 

inic). The composition of the fat is subject to numerous 
variations and these are not alone racial peculiarities, 
for individual traits, the composition of the food and 
external conditions of life not infrequently influence it. 

Other Substances. Milk contains other substances 
in very slight quantities : urea, kreatin, kreatinin, leci- 
thin, cholesterin and citric acid. It is not yet known if 
these appear in the milk of all animals or whether some 
of the substances are characteristic of certain animals 
only. 

Besides these substances, milk contains some inor- 
ganic salts in solution, which remain after evaporating 
and burning the milk. The ash consists of lime, potash, 
sodium, small quantities of magnesia and traces of oxide 
of iron in combination with phosphoric acid, chlorine 
and sulphuric acid. The small surplus of basic sub- 
stances in the ash were in combination with citric acid 
and, perhaps, with other organic acids. Phosphoric acid 
and lime exist partly as soluble compounds, partly in 
combination with casein. A little di- and tri-calcium 
phosphate are held in solution by the action of the casein 
and are therefore precipitated with it. The milk of dif- 
ferent species and sometimes of different individuals, 
shows a quantitative difference in the ash. 

According to recent investigations, milk, at least 
cow's milk, always contains a ferment, the so-called 
galactase (Babcock, Russell), which is capable of slowly 
peptonizing protein. The significance of this ferment 
and its composition are wholly unknown to us ; possibly 
it comes from the breaking down of the leucocyte 
(Barthel). 

Certain gases occur in the free state in milk. 
Investigations on this subject have given varying re- 
sults, in that some investigators have found distinct 
quantities of oxygen in milk just drawn, others have 



THE COMPOSITION OF MILK 21 

detected only a trace, or none at all; moreover, milk 
always contains considerable carbonic acid and a slight 
quantity of nitrogen. Upon standing, this relation 
changes, for carbonic acid escapes and oxygen is 
absorbed.^ 

III. THE COMPOSITION OF MILK OF DIFFERENT 
SPECIES OF ANIMALS 

It has been stated that the milks of different species 
of animals consist of essentially the same materials, but 
that in their quantitative composition they show quite a 
little diiference. As will be considered in detail later, 
there are great variations with individual animals and, 
therefore, the figures given are to be regarded as aver- 
ages and they are to be accepted with some reserve, for 
not all are the result of a sufficiently great number of 
analyses; still, they give quite a good picture of the 
striking peculiarities of the different kinds of milk. 

Cow's milk is white, opaque, has a slightly sweetish 
taste and a very slight odor. It shows amphoteric reac- 
tion to litmus paper, e.g., it colors red litmus paper blu- 
ish and blue reddish. To other indicators, milk some- 
times shows itself to be acid, sometimes alkaline. Ac- 
cording to Courant, it can be demonstrated that 100 c.c. 
of fresh cow's milk shows the same amount of alkalinity 
toward blue litmus as 41 c.c. of a one-tenth normal solu- 
tion of sodium hydrate and the amount of acidity, as 
measured by phenolphthalein, is equivalent to that of 
19.5 c.c. of a one-tenth normal solution of sulphuric 
acid. However, milk does not always react the same, 
it changes especially during the course of the period 
of lactation. The casein of cow's milk is precipitated 

^ Richmond says : "As the milk is kept the amount of oxygen 
decreases and that of carbon dioxide increases; this is probably 
due to aerobic microorganisms, which absorb the oxygen and give 
out carbon dioxide." [L. P.] 



22 MILK HYGIENE 

by chymosin as a firm, jelly-like mass. The butter-fat 
contains a yellow coloring stuff. 

The qualitative composition of cow's milk averages 
as follows (Fleischmann) : water, 87.75 per cent.; fat, 
3.4 per cent.; casein, 3.0 per cent.; albumen, 0.5 per 
cent. ; lactose, 4.6 per cent. ; salt, 0.75 per cent.^ Lacto- 
globulin and lecithin are found only in very slight quan- 
tity; citric acid is found in quantities of from 0.1 to 
0.15 per cent. Analysis of the ash shows its constitu- 
ents to be present in the following proportions : 



K20 


Na^O 


CaO 


MgO 


Fe,0, 


l\(h 


CI 


SO3 


25.81 


11.78 


19.71 


2.77 


0.13 


23.11 


16.15 


4.07% 



But there may be a considerable amount of variation, 
especially in the potash, magnesia, chlorine and sul- 
phuric acid, since the consummation of certain salts in 
great quantity cause changes in the composition of the 
ash. The quantitative composition of cow's milk varies 
greatly among the different breeds and individuals, and 
at different stages of the period of lactation (see the 
next section). 

Zebu's Milk coincides almost wholly in its properties 

- Richmond gives the following average composition of milk, 
based on the analysis of 200,000 samples taken from the supply of a 
dairy company in London : 

Per cent. Per cent. 

Water 87.10 Casein 3.00 

Fat 3.90 Albumin 0.40 

Milk sugar 4.75 Ash 0.75 

A very large proportion of the cows producing milk for the 
London market are of the Shorthorn breed, [L. P.] 

The following is taken to represent " milk of good average 
quality " in Massachusetts : 

Per cent. Per cent. 

Water 87.00 Casein 3.00 

Fat 4.00 Albumin 0.50 

Milk sugar 4.80 Ash 0.70 

(Bulletin 110, Hatch Experiment Station.) [L. P.] 



THE COMPOSITION OF MILK 23 

and quantitative composition with ordinary cow's milk. 

Buffalo's milk, which possesses a slight, pleasing odor 
and taste, is richer in solids than cow's milk, since the 
quantity of fat amounts to about 8 per cent., the proteids 
to fully 4 per cent, and lactose to 4.75 to 5.2 per cent. 

Goat's milk is pure white, without especially pro- 
nounced odor or taste. If, however, the milking takes 
place in the stable in which male goats are kept, the 
milk very easily absorbs the same characteristic un- 
pleasant odor. The chemical composition of goat's 
milk is similar to that of cow's milk; frequently, though, 
the fat content is a little greater. The butter-fat is white. 

Sheep's milk is a whitish yellow, rather thick and pos- 
sesses a peculiar, somewhat unpleasant taste and odor. 
It differs from cow's milk and goat's milk in its high 
fat and casein content, averaging about 9.0 per cent, and 
6.3 per cent, respectively. Moreover, the fat content is 
very variable, for with some breeds it amounts to 11 to 
12 per cent, and even more, while with others it amounts 
to only 2 to 3 per cent. The examination of milk of 2,700 
sheep (Sartori) showed an average specific gravity 
1.0374 and the following composition: water 78.70 per 
cent., fat 8.94 per cent., proteids 6.3 per cent., lactose 
5.06 per cent., ash 1.015 per cent. The average analyses 
for 250 other sheep (Fleischmann) were as follows: 
water 75.54 per cent., fat 11.90 per cent., casein 5.83 
per cent., albumin 1.33 per cent., lactose 3.43 per cent., 
ash 1.05 per cent. 

Mare's milk is usually distinctly alkaline to litmus, 
but may be neutral. It is white or bluish in color and 
has a somewhat pronounced sweet taste due to its high 
lactose content (about 6.6 per cent.). The proportions 
of fat and proteids are conspicuously small; as in the 
averages of 15 analyses (Veith) only 1.09 per cent, fat 
and 1.89 per cent, proteids (of which about a third was 



24 MILK HYGIENE 

albumin) were present. The inorganic salts (ash) are 
present only in small quantity (0.31 per cent.). 

Ass's milk is essentially the same as that of the mare ; 
it has in common with the latter the low fat and proteid 
content and the large quantity of lactose. The composi- 
tion is given somewhat differently by different writers. 
Ellenberger, Seeliger and Klimmer found as the aver- 
age of a large number of analyses : water 91.20 per cent., 
fat 1.10 per cent., proteids 1.50 per cent., lactose 6.0 per 
cent, ash 0.40 per cent. The reaction is decidedly alka- 
line to litmus. On account of the small proportion of 
salts, the casein is precipitated by rennet as a flocculent, 
disunited mass. Milk of the ass more nearly resembles 
human milk than does that of any other animal, and in 
Southwestern Europe, for the most part, milk of the ass 
is the principal substitute used for the nourishment of 
infants. 

Woman's milk, which reacts amphoterically, is regu- 
larly somewhat richer in lactose than cow's milk, but it 
contains less proteids and also less ash, especially phos- 
phoric acid and lime. While the lactalbumin in cow's 
milk constitutes but one-fifth to one-sixth of the protein, 
in human milk during the first part of the period of 
lactation, albumin and casein are present in almost 
equal quantities; later, casein increases a little. The 
average percentage of fat is approximately the same as 
in cow's milk, but it varies considerably, from 1.3 per 
cent, to 7.8 per cent. Human milk is richer in lecithin, 
but poorer in citric acid (about 0.5 per thousand) than 
cow's milk. According to E. Gottlieb the following 
numbers represent the average composition of 104 sam- 
ples : water 87.92 per cent., fat 3.43 per cent., casein 0.58 
per cent., albumin 0.52 per cent., lactose 7.12 per cent., 
ash (salts), 0.25 per cent. Woman's milk is subject to 
individual variations to a great degree, as is shown by 



THE COMPOSITION OF MILK 25 

the table below, which is taken from Gottlieb 's analyses : 





Water. 


Fat. 


Casein. 


Albumin. 


Lactose. 


Ash. 


"Normal" milk 

Rich m^ilk 


87.52 
85.24 
89.65 


3.38 
5.91 
1.66 


0.78 
0.87 
0.57 


0.39 
0.36 
0.27 


7.51 
7.24 

7.47 


0.27 
0.24 


Poor milk 


0.23 







Each number represents the average of four analyses 
taken several days apart. Each sample came from a 
young woman who had been confined a few months 
before. 

It has often been said that casein in human milk dif- 
fers chemically from that of cow's milk; but, as stated 
above, according to the investigations of recent years, 
there is good reason to believe that this is not the case. 
(Hammersten, Cohnheim.) 

Sow's milk is thick, slimy and of alkaline reaction. In chemical 
composition it is very variable, especially so in regard to the fat 
content which varies between 1.0 per cent, to more than 12.0 per cent. 
In some of the analyses reported, it appears that a distinction has 
not been made in relation to the proportion of fat of the milk 
that was drawn first and that drawn last, but since the other 
ingredients of the milk were found in different proportions, the 
variation can not be doubted. The quantity of protein averages 
about 6.0 per cent, but may vary from 5.7 to 15.5 per cent. The 
quantity of lactose varies from 2.0 per cent, to 3.8 per cent., the 
ash from 0.77 per cent, to 1.18 per cent. On the whole, it may be 
said that sow's milk is quite concentrated. 

Bitch's milk is also quite variable in its composition. The 
fat content varies between 4.0 per cent, and 12.0 per cent., the pro- 
l^ortion of casein between about 3.5 pea* cent, and 6.0 per cent., 
albumin is present in about the same quantity as casein, there is 
about 2.0 per cent, to 3.0 per cent, of lactose and about 1.0 per 
cent, of ash. 

The milk of the cat has not received much study. According 
to some analyses that have been made (by Comaille), it is of about the 



26 



MILK HYGIENE 



following composition : fat 3.33 per cent., casein 3.12 per cent., albu- 
min 5.96 per cent., lactose about 4.9 per cent., and ash 0.59 per cent. 

The rabbit and the reindeer give milk particularly rich in fat and 
especially concentrated, but poor in lactose. The milk of the 
elephant shows very great fat and sugar content and comparatively 
little protein. 

A milk differing greatly from the usual is that of the whale. 
It contains only from 41.0 per cent, to 48.0 per cent, of' water, and 
fat in the enormous proportion of 43.0 per cent, to 45.0 per cent. 
There is 7.5 per cent, to 11.0 per cent, of protein and only about 
1.3 per cent, of sugar. 

The table below shows the average analysis of human 
milk and of the other kinds of milk used as food for man : 





Cow. 


Goat. 


Sheep. 


Ass. 


Mare. 


Woman. 


Water .... 


87.75 
3.00 
0.50 
3.40 
4.60 
0.75 


87.30 
3.00 
0.50 
3.90 
4.40 
0.80 


75.54 
5.83 
1.33 

11.90 
3.43 
1.05 


91.20 
0.90 
0.60 
1.10 
6.00 
0.40 


90.00 
1.26 
0.63 
1.09 
6.65 
0.31 


87.92 


Casein 


0.58 


Albumin 


0.52 


Fat 


3.43 


Lactose 


7.12 


Salts. ... 


25 







IV. 



VARIATIONS IN THE COMPOSITION 
OF COW'S MILK 



It has already been stated that the composition of 
the milk of the cow, as well as that of other animals, may 
vary more or less. So far as the variations of cow's 
milk are concerned, they are not very great, still they 
are of sufficient importance to make it necessary to 
take them into consideration in connection with its pro- 
duction, sale and control. The above figures give ap- 
proximately the average composition of cow's milk and, 
of course, correspond with the composition of market 
milk, which consists of a mixture of milk of several or 
many cows.^ The separate constituents vary in quantity 

^ These are Danish figures; in America the average for market 
milk is higher. [L. P.] 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 27 

in different degrees, the fat content varying the most, 
the albumin, lactose and ash ingredients less. In 
li ^.j^]-^ ?> milk the fat content often considerably exceeds 
the average, while the ^proportions of protein and lac- 
tose are never much higher than the averages given. 
On the other hand, with thin, poor milk the fat per cent, 
may fall far below the average, while the proportions of 
protein and lactose depart but slightly from the average. 
These variations are not due merely to the elimination 
of water from the milk, that is, to a simple concentration, 
but rather to a qualitative variation in the activities of 
the gland cells. 

Just as is the case with other glands, the milk 
glands may be stimulated to greater activity, so that the 
quantity of secretion increases, but its chemical compo- 
sition is not disturbed, or only slightly, or temporarily, 
until the gland tissue has accustomed itself to the 
new condition. Drinking a large quantity of water 
causes no increase in milk secretion; the gland cells do 
not secrete more water than the quantity required to 
maintain the proper proportion to the milk solids. Food 
containing much water has no permanent effect upon 
the composition and the quantity of the milk. The 
influence of such materials as pilocarpine and atropine, 
which increase or reduce other secretions in a great 
degree, have no direct, or only a very slight influence 
on the milk secretion, apparently because this is con- 
trolled by the sympathetic nerve centres. The various 
conditions that have, or are believed to have, an influence 
upon the chemical composition, and especially upon the 
fat content of milk, are considered in the following para- 
graphs. 

1. Breed peculiarities. Cows of different breeds 
give milk of somewhat different composition. In gen- 
eral, it is believed that breeds from the highlands and 



28 MILK HYGIENE 

mountainous regions give a richer milk, while breeds 
from the lowlands yield milk poorer in fat. There are, 
it is true, exceptions to this rule, e.g., the Allgauer and 
the brown Swiss cattle give rather a poor milk, while 
the Devons and the Normandy cattle give milk rich in 
fat. As an example of breeds that give milk especially 
rich in fat we may mention the Jerseys and the Guern- 
seys, whose milk contains an average of 4.5 per cent, 
to 5.5 per cent, fat, also the Harz cattle, whose milk is 
reported to contain an average of 5.8 per cent. fat. On 
the other hand, milk of the Swiss cows has only 3.0 
per cent, fat, that of the Angler and Breitenburger and 
other breeds only about 3.13 per cent, to 3.15 per cent, 
fat. The average of the Danish breeds can hardly be 
placed higher, being about 3.2 per cent, to 3.4 per cent, 
fat. 

2. Individual peculiarities. The figures given above 
are averages only. The milk of different individuals 
varies more or less so that in the same breed there are 
individuals that give milk rich in fat, and also those 
whose milk has a percentage of fat below the average 
of the breed in question. The production of rich milk is, 
therefore, a distinctly individual property that is due 
to the physiological peculiarities of the gland cells of the 
animal, and which appears, to a great degree, to be 
hereditary. Among cows of the same breed may be found 
some whose milk contains 4.0 per cent, or more of fat 
and, on the other hand, there are many that give milk 
containing only about 2.5 per cent, fat ; indeed, not infre- 
quently the percentage of fat is still lower, and from 
Germany there are records of cows that give milk con- 
taining not more than 1.5 per cent, of fat. Such cows 
are frequently and in large numbers excluded from the 
best herds, so when herds are made up of purchased 
cows, the mixed milk from such cattle often contains but 



VAEIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 29 

little fat and may not exceed 2.25 per cent, to 2.75 per 
cent.* 

While it is scarcely possible, as will be discussed 
later, to influence the composition of milk materially or 
permanently by alterations in the quantity and com- 
position of the food, still it may not be entirely impossi- 
ble to influence the young animal by skilful or by 
appropriate feeding in such a way as to encourage it 
later to produce milk rich in fat. But thoroughly 
reliable data on this point are not available. 

3. The age of the cow. Although the quantity of 
milk varies according to the age of the cow, so that it is 
usually greatest during the third to the fifth lactation 
periods, the chemical composition appears to remain 
almost unchanged from year to year (Hittcher) ; yet it 
is apparent that fats as well as other ingredients 
decrease with great age. 

4. The stage of the lactation period. The colostrum 
secretion is not especially important. The true milk 
secretion very quickly attains a considerable volume, but 
falls off gradually after a longer or shorter time, until 
the secretion ceases altogether or is insignificant to- 
wards the end of the period of gestation. Some cows, 
however, continue to milk very well up to calving and 
to the new period of lactation. It was emphasized 
above that colostrum differs essentially, both morpho- 
logically and chemically, from normal milk. Further- 
more, the composition of milk during the first part of 
the lactation period differs from that secreted toward 
the close. 

a. Colostrum. The first colostrum is whitish, yellow- 
ish, or even reddish to brownish; it is slimy and has a 

■* It should be borne in mind that the cattle here referred to 
are of heavy milking- lowland breeds not represented in America. 

[L. P.] 



30 



MILK HYGIENE 



specific gravity of 1.040 to 1.080. Its microscopic ap- 
pearance lias been described before and, in part, its 
chemical composition. Gradually, the appearance and 
the composition of the secretion changes until, in the 
course of about a week, it becomes pure milk. This 
gradual development is illustrated by the following 
analysis given by Eugling : 



Water .... 

Casein 

Albumin ■» 
Globulin / 
Extractives 

Sugar 

Ash : 





Vumber of hours after calving 


• 


Imme- 
diately. 


10 


24 


48 


72 


73.17 


78.77 


80.63 


85.81 


86.64 


2.65 


4.28 


4.50 


3.25 


3.33 


16.56 


9.32 


6.25 


2.31 


1.03 


3.54 


4.66 


4.75 


4.21 


4.08 


3.00 


1.42 


2.85 


3.46 


4.10 


1.18 


1.55 


1.02 


0.96 


0.82 



Normal 
milk. 



87.75 
3.00 

0.50 

3.40 
4.60 
0.75 



These figures show that the chief difference in the 
composition of milk and colostrum consists in the 
greater albumin and globulin content of the latter, which 
arises partly from the presence of numerous colos- 
trum bodies, in consequence of the presence of which 
colostrum coagulates when heated. Another important 
difference is the low sugar content of colostrum ; accord- 
ing to Tereg the sugar of colostrum is not lactose, but is 
grape sugar, or jDcrhaj^s a mixture of this and galactose. 
Of the substances that are extracted with the fat, about 
13.8 per cent, consists of cholesterin and 8.0 per cent, 
of lecithin. 

Among other peculiarities shown by colostrum of the 
cow may be mentioned its acid reaction and the fact that 
after the addition of rennet it does not coagulate at all, 
or only very slowly. 

b. Milk. Shortly after calving, while the secretion 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 31 

is abundant, the milk is generally a little less rich in 
solids and especially in fat than it is later when the 
secretion begins to fall off; with some cows the differ- 
ence is not very great, but with others it is considerable. 
In the last month the secretion falls off rapidly and 
often ceases entirely; at the same time the proportion 
of solids usually increases and this is especially the case 
in relation to fat. The milk gradually acquires a decided 
alkaline reaction to litmus paper and not infrequently 
develops a salty taste. The changes in composition 
are shown in the following table, which gives the results 
of analyses, made by Fleischmann, of the milk of one 
cow which calved January 28th. 

With this cow, the percentage of fat during the 
period of lactation rose from 3.033 to 8.300; but this 
significant increase occurred almost entirely in the last 
month when the cow had become an old milker. At the 
same time the quantity of albumin, lactose and salt 
{i.e., solids not fat) increased only from 8.14 per cent, 
to 9.00 per cent. 

The chemical composition of milk of some cows does 
not change noticeably during the whole period of lac- 
tation, and the percentage of fat as well as the other 
solids may even fall off a little at the end of the lactation 
period. Fleischmann gives a table showing analyses of 
the milk of such a cow for the whole lactation period: 
the daily quantity of milk in April was 19.84 kg., on the 
31st of January following it was 3.6 kg. The fat per- 
centage, which had varied between 2.56 and 2.97, fell in 
January to 2.42, 2.60, 2.32, and 2.48 upon different 
analyses. The percentage of solids not fat also fell a 
little. 

5. The time and method of milking. It is commonly 
believed that there is always a slight difference between 
the chemical composition of the morning and the even- 



32 



MILK HYGIENE 



ing milk in that the latter is richer in fat than the for- 
mer. Numerous investigations have given very varia- 
ble results that may be explained by the short duration 
of the test, by the daily variations of the composition 
of the milk, etc. Some larger experiments relating to 



LACTATION PERIOD 



April 

May 

June 

July 

August . . . 
September 
October . . 
November 
December . 
January 2 
January 3 
January 4 
January 6 
January 7 
January 8 
January 9 
January 10 
January 11 
January 14 
January 16 
January 18 



Daily 

quantity 

of milk. 

Kg. 



11.55 
11.95 
10.45 
8.82 
9.66 
9.07 
7.67 
6.63 
5.11 
3.0 
2.7 
2.8 
2.3 
2.4 
2.3 
2.3 
2.1 
2.2 
1.9 
1.3 
1.4 



specific 
gravity. 



1.0291 
1 .0290 
1.0287 
1.0283 
1.0287 
1.0289 
1.0292 
1.0299 
] .0300 
1.0302 
1.0300 
1.0299 
1.0307 
1.0299 
1.0304 
1.0310 
1.0308 
1.0308 
1.0277 
1.0301 
1.0288 



Fat. 
Per cent. 



3.033 
3.264 
3.405 
3.458 
3.586 
3.650 
3.434 
3.823 
4.2()7 
5.050 
5.400 
4.720 
5.470 
5.440 
5.250 
5.200 
5.090 
5.100 
6.900 
8.300 
7.480 



Solids 
not fat. 
Per cent. 



8.140 
8.166 
8.113 
8.027 
8.149 
8.230 
8.247 
8.501 
8.616 
8.823 
8.843 
8.680 
9.032 
8.824 
8.911 
9.054 
8.980 
8.982 
8.565 
9.446 
8.958 



Fat content 

of the total 

s »lids. 

Per cent. 



27.15 
28.56 
29.56 
30.11 
30.57 
30.72 
29.39 
31.01 
33.11 
36.40 
37.91 
35.22 
37.71 
38.14 
37.07 
36.48 
36.17 
36.22 
44.60 
46.77 
45.50 



many animals and extending over a long period, have 
proven that the morning milk does not ditfer from the 
evening milk in fat content when the period between 
the milkings is equally great and the feed, the amount 
of drinking water taken, etc., are the same. But in prac- 
tice this is not the case, because usually a small dif- 
ference exists, so that where there is a larger quantity 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 33 

of milk there is a smaller percentage of fat. Fleisch- 
mann found by continuous investigations of one herd of 
120 to 130 cows during one year, that on the average for 
the whole year the morning milk contained a little more 
fat than the evening milk (3.260 per cent, against 3.183 
per cent.), while the quantity of morning milk was a 
little less than that of the evening milk (4.143 kg. against 
4.616 kg.). 

There is a slight ditf erence dependent upon the sea- 
sons ; it has been shown that in the summer the morning 
milk contains a slight excess of fat while in the winter 
the evening milk is the richer. It follows that since the 
quality of milk is influenced by external influences, there 
can be no general rule to define the difference between 
morning and evening milk but, usually, if no other con- 
ditions arise, this difference is comparatively small. 

It is commonly believed that three milkings a day 
cause not only the production of a greater quantity 
of milk, but also a somewhat greater percentage of fat, 
but it can scarcely be said that there is definite proof of 
an increase in the percentage of fat. 

If the milking is done by a strange or inexperienced 
person, the flow is diminished. This also influences the 
quality of the milk. The first and the last milk drawn 
differ greatly in fat content. It is supposed that the fat 
globules adhere firmly to the walls of the ducts, as a 
layer of cream, and are freed from these only with dif- 
ficulty. The following figures show the results of 
analyses by de Vriezes, who found in the first streams 
1.2 per cent, fat; after drawing about one-quarter the 
quantity of milk, 2.1 per cent, fat ; after drawing about 
one-half the quantity of milk, 3.6 per cent, fat; after 
drawing about three-quarters the quantity of milk, 5.2 
per cent, fat; in the last milk, 7.1 per cent, fat; in the 
very last drops of milk drawn, 10.0 per cent. fat. 
3 



34 



MILK HYGIENE 



Therefore, by milking a single cow, one can obtain 
milk of the greatest variety of fat content, which must 
be considered when samples are taken from individual 
animals for the purpose of examination. According to 
Hittcher's investigations, the situation seems, singularly 
enough, to be wholly changed if the calf is permitted to 
suck the cow; the milk that remains is not rich, but is 
much poorer in fat. 



Number of the 


Fats. Per cent. 


Solids not fat. Per cent. 


cow. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 


2.621 
2.160 

2.163 
2.543 
2.096 
2.257 
2.690 
2.566 
2.464 
2.741 
2.509 
2.645 
2.097 
2.437 
2.326 

2.537 


4.698 
3.404 

3.965 
3.900 
3.446 
3.837 
4.117 
4.709 
6.000 
4.649 
5.505 
4.724 
4.173 
4.234 
4.637 

4.390 


7.859 
7.293 

7.702 
7.636 
7.753 
7.974 
7.943 
8.197 
7.728 
8.305 
8.582 
8.389 
8.394 
8.031 
8.040 

8.098 


8.771 
8.707 

8.743 
8.577 
8.893 
8.914 
8.897 
10.050 
8.939 
9.371 
9.550 
9.623 
9.131 
9.046 
9.363 

9.170 



The opinion expressed in recent years, that by 
a special method of milking the average fat percent- 
age of milk of individual cows may be raised, is in- 
correct. 

6. Daily variations. Daily examinations of milk of 
individual cows show that not only the quantity of milk 
undergoes change from day to day, but, at the same 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 



35 



time, strange to say, the chemical composition of the 
milk is subjected to daily variations that may reach 
considerable extent. Knowledge of this is naturally of 
the greatest importance in the detection of milk adul- 
teration. The table on page 34 is given by Fleischmann 
to show the minimum and maximum fat percentages in 
the milk of a series of cows examined daily during an 
entire period of lactation. 

As is shown, the percentages of fat differ consider- 
ably even in milk from the same cow; one cow, number 
12 in the table, produced milk differing in fat content 
as much as 100 per cent., that is, from 2.509 to 5.505 per 
cent. 



Cow No. I. 


Cow No. V. 


Cow No. VII. 


Cow No. VIII. 


3.214 


3.040 


2.566 


3.551 


2.869 


2.825 




3.592 


2.859 


3.322 


3.080 


3.244 


2.862 




3.314 


2.932 




3.043 


2.822 


2.790 


3.294 


3.790 


2.329 


3.047 


3.070 


2.996 


2.308 




2.847 


3.369 


2.616 


2.816 


3.685 


3.272 


3.334 


3.199 


3.749 


3.189 


3.381 


3.732 


4.031 


3.267 


3.402 


3.620 


3.927 


3.068 


3.316 


3.522 


3.792 


3.795 


3.344 


3.492 


3.844 


3.470 


2.970 


3.633 



The variations are not always gradual, but occur 
spasmodically, as is evident from the figures above, 
taken from Fleischmann 's work on milk. The numbers 
in the perpendicular columns give the percentage of 
fat for successive days; the figures above the dividing 
line date from the beginning of the lactation period of 
the cows, while below the line the figures given refer to 



36 MILK HYGIENE 

the end of the milking j^eriod. The examples are chosen 
in order to make plain the daily variations with the 
individual animals. 

One may find even greater variations by examining 
the morning and evening milk. As examples, some re- 
sults are given from the daily examinations of milk from 
the above mentioned cows number I and number V, the 
figures referring alternately to the morning and the 
evening milk on successive days : 

Cow No. 1. ("ow No. V. 

Morning 3.375 3.180 

Evening 2.640 2.940 

Morning 3.240 2.710 

Evening 3.995 2.900 

Morning 2.750 

Evening 3.700 

Morning 3.800 

Evening 3.250 

Morning 4.100 2.360 

Evening 3.815 3.560 

Morning 4.145 4.530 

Evening 3.485 3.180 

Morning 4.085 3.220 

Evening 2.785 2.800 

Morning 3.690 

Evening 3.590 3.100 

The changes in the quantity of solids not fat (protein, 
lactose and salts), as is apparent from the above tables, 
are much less than those of the fat, and especially do 
lactose and salts vary but little. 

The reasons for these daily variations in the quan- 
titative composition of milk are not yet wholly under- 
stood, but are to be sought in everything that in any 
way has an unfavorable influence on the animal ; changes 
of food (see below) or of the times of feeding and drink- 
ing, changing to a strange place, restlessness in the sta- 
ble, storms, oestrum, changes at milking, etc. Very often 
no definite reason can be discovered and it appears that 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 37 

such variations may take place without external causes. 
With cows that have suckled their calves, after separa- 
tion from the calf, there is usually a very noticeable de- 
crease of fat in the milk, which is sometimes made good 
by a subsequent considerable temporary increase. 

7. The influence of food. It is an old and, in some 
places, stil] commonly accepted opinion that the compo- 
sition and the quantity of the food have an important 
influence on the composition of the milk and more espe- 
cially on its fat content. Palm and cocoanut meal and 
several other food stuffs, are said to encourage the pro- 
duction of rich milk, while, on the other hand, distillery 
slops, for example, are said to cause the production of 
l)oor milk. During recent years, numerous investiga- 
tions undertaken abroad as well as in the experimental 
laboratory in Copenhagen, seem to have proven that it 
is not possible by changes of food to bring about a 
noticeable permanent effect upon the composition of the 
milk. The activity of the udder cells, as is shown from 
the daily variation in the composition of milk, is easily 
thrown out of equilibrium, but such a condition is only 
temporary. With changes of feeding, this condition 
appears quite plainly, nearly every change very 
quickly causing a variation in the composition of the 
milk, especially the fat percentage, so that sometimes 
this rises, sometimes, e.g., when distillery slops and simi- 
lar moist foods are fed, it falls off more or less. But 
this variation always seems to be merely temporary ; in 
the course of a day or so, sometimes, however, not until 
the end of a couple of weeks, the average percentage 
returns. This is the case even when food of only one 
kind, as distillery slop and, indeed, when food especially 
rich in fat, is fed; in these cases, also, the change in 
percentage will be only temporary (Henriques and C. 
Hansen). 



38 MILK HYGIENE 

To be sure, there are many reports in print of 
other results, but upon examination these are found to 
extend over so short a period that the temporary 
changes had not yet disappeared, or they refer to inves- 
tigations with different cows whose milk was not suf- 
ficiently examined, or to cows that did not receive the 
same food in the beginning of the experiment, or, finally, 
sufficient allowance was not made for the daily varia- 
tions and for those that occur at diiferent stages of the 
lactation period. 

The temporary changes in the composition of milk 
which occur after a change in the food, may be consid- 
erable, but here, too, the question of individual peculiari- 
ties enters, so that the changes shown by two cows under 
the same conditions may differ materially. 

It is of an old belief, that the change from dry food 
to green causes an increase in the fat content of the milk. 
The investigations in the Danish experimental labora- 
tory have proven this ; they show that the fat percent- 
age under these conditions may increase 0.5 per cent., 
with some cows it increased even 1.0 per cent., but this 
increase lasted only a few weeks. Also, when changing 
the ration to include some of the oil cakes, a similar 
increase in the percentage of fat has been observed, but 
seldom more than about 0.5 per cent. On the other 
hand, as stated before, there are observations of tem- 
porary falling of the fat from 0.25 per cent, to 0.5 per 
cent, when a change of food is made to distillery slops 
or similar rations. 

It is, then, possible to show that the udder reacts 
rather characteristically to certain changes in the ration 
and especially to some food stuffs ; but this reaction is 
lost when the cow has become accustomed to the new 
food. Under such conditions, simultaneously with the 
increase of the fat percentage there frequently occurs a 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 39 

decrease in the quantity of milk, while, on the other 
hand, a lessening of the percentage of fat is often accom- 
panied by an increase in the volume of the milk. 

Although recent experiments have thrown much 
light upon the influence of food on the milk secretion, yet 
there is need for further information on many points. 
For instance, it is not known with certainty if it is pos- 
sible by long continued, particularly unfavorable, one- 
sided composition of food, to produce lasting changes 
in the fat content of milk and in the solids not fat. 

Lactose occurs in milk in but one form and the char- 
acter of proteids is not affected by the nature of the 
foods. On the other hand, the milk fats vary, sometimes 
there is more and sometimes less olein, which affects the 
consistency of the butterfat, and the percentages of vola- 
tile fatty acids may vary considerably. It has often been 
said that the fats taken with the food do not pass un- 
changed into the milk. Only when a great quantity of 
food, rich in a kind of fat that can be distinguished 
chemically, is fed, is it possible to find small quantities 
of that fat in the butterfat of the milk. 

But little is known positively concerning the causes 
of the variations in the composition of the butter- 
fat and especially concerning the influence of the food 
upon it. The milk fat may originate in the fatty tissue 
of the animal, from the fat stuffs taken with the food 
and, apparently, also, directly from the carbohydrates 
consumed. There are a number of other conditions, 
as the composition of the ration, excessive feeding 
with fatty foods, starvation, etc., that have some in- 
fluence in this direction but, as they are of no sanitary 
importance, it is unnecessary to discuss them here in 
detail. 

It is generally believed that odors and tastes pass 
from the food that is consumed into the milk. The 



40 MILK HYGIENE 

milk of the Alpine cows is noted for its aromatic 
taste. Feeding with beet leaves, turnips, malt sprouts, 
etc., is supposed to be the cause of the taste and odor of 
beets or a burnt taste and odor in the milk. We do not 
yet know how much influence is to be attributed to the 
food. In some cases, the offensive odor and taste is 
undoubtedly due to the activity of bacteria in the milk — 
indeed, it is doubtful if the ^ ^ beet taste ' ' and the ^ ' burnt 
taste '' ever come from the food (see below). Peculiari- 
ties of breed may possibly be the cause of the aro- 
matic milk of the Alpine cows. On the whole, it is 
highly probable that the food has some influence on the 
taste and odor of the milk [this is unquestionable in the 
case of garlic,] hut hy no means all of the substances in 
milk that have special odors and tastes are secreted 
with the milk. 

The ash ingredients of milk, are not generally influ- 
enced to a great extent by the amount of salts taken 
with the food; even a considerable iron or phosphoric 
acid content of the food causes no direct increase of 
these materials in the milk; still, certain sulphates, as 
Glauber's salt, given in large quantities are excreted in 
small quantity with the milk, and consequently cause 
an increase in sulphuric acid in the ash. 

While it is true that feeding influences the compo- 
sition of milk only to a slight degree, it is nevertheless 
true that the quantity of milk is dependent to a very 
great degree on the amount and composition of the food. 

8. The significance of sexual conditions. The occur- 
rence of oestrum and pathological conditions of the 
generative organs cause a decrease in the milk secre- 
tion ; therefore it has been assumed that these conditions 
may also cause changes in the chemical composition of 
the secretion, yet this does not always appear to be the 
case. 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 41 

a. (Estrum has a very different effect on the milk 
secretion of individual cows. Kiihn found no effect, but 
von Kleuze found such a great albumin content that the 
milk could not be boiled, and Schaffer established a 
remarkably high fat content. On the other hand, Fleisch- 
mann found only 0.714 per cent, fat in the evening milk 
of a cow that had come in heat in the course of the day, 
though the morning milk contained 3.56 per cent. fat. 
On the whole, it may be said that normal oestrum often 
induces a passing disturbance of the normal secretory 
activity of the udder. 

b. Nymphomania, which has no slight influence on 
the nature of the meat, and reduces the milk secretion 
considerably, probably influences the nature of the milk 
also. Only a single analysis of such milk is given by 
Schaffer; the quantity of fat and lactose had not 
changed, but the quantity of protein was remarkably 
high, namely, 5.72 per cent. 

c. Ovariotomy. As is known, it is frequently claimed 
that spaying performed on healthy cows during the first 
months of the lactation period causes a considerable 
lengthening of this period, an increased daily secretion, 
and greater fat content of the milk. However, it can 
hardly be said that this is sufficiently established; and 
especially, it is not to be considered as proven that 
ovariotomy is able to raise the fat content; in fact it is 
most improbable. Ovariotomy performed on nympho- 
maniac cows causes, among other things, the possibly 
abnormal milk secretion to return again to normal. 

d. Abortion. The experiments that were conducted 
by Schaffer and Hess have shown that abortion, which 
has such great influence on the quantity of milk, has no 
influence on its composition. The same statement ap- 
plies to the retention of tlie afterbirth, in so far as this 
causes no sreneral illness. 



42 MILK HYGIENE 

9. Exercise and work. According to a number of 
different experiments at hand (Dolgich, Torssell, and 
several others) daily exercise increases milk secretion 
so that not only the amount of milk increases, but also 
the total quantity of fats. Sometimes, indeed, the per- 
centage of fat increases, and, as a rule, the percentage of 
casein diminishes, while the other constituents are 
affected irregularly. 

Work does not necessarily influence the milk secre- 
tion to a great degree (Morgen), but generally causes a 
slight diminution in quantity and there is an increase in 
the percentage of fat and a proportionate but smaller 
increase in the percentage of protein and ash. Exhaust- 
ing work causes not only a material decrease in the 
quantity of milk, but also a disturbance in the whole 
secretion, so that even vegetable fats are excreted in 
the milk in unchanged condition (Dolgich). 

10. Disease of the cow often brings about a decrease 
and sometimes even an entire cessation of the milk 
secretion. In diseases of the udder, the milk under- 
goes, as will be seen later, very important chemical 
changes. There is very little positive knowledge of 
the changes in the composition of milk during diseases 
that are not localized in the udder. Apparently, it is 
usually the rule that the daily variations in the composi- 
tion increase, or, in other words, that the secretion is 
thrown out of equilibrium. Frequently, in the beginning 
of disease, there is found an abnormally large pecentage 
of fat that results from the often sudden decrease of the 
quantity of the secretion. A salty taste which occurs not 
infrequently, might possibly mean an increase in the 
quantity of protein and ash (secretion of blood serum). 
According to long-standing opinion, milk has an abnor- 
mal taste in cases of indigestion of all sorts and under 
these conditions it also curdles easily. 



VARIATIONS IN COW'S MILK 43 

11. Medicines. It is an old opinion that a number 
of different medicines help to increase the milk secre- 
tion and the fat content of milk, and for this reason, so- 
called '^ milk powders " are still used. The different 
materials (fennel, anise, caraway, calamus, bitters, sul- 
phur, antimony compounds, etc.) cannot change the 
secretion of normal animals, and it is doubtful if they 
are able to recall the milk secretion after it has been 
checked through disease. 

Otlier medicines as quinine, belladonna and alum, are 
supposed to be able to check the secretion as, also, rub- 
bing the udder with opodeldoc, oil of rosemary and the 
like ; but their action is questionable. Drugs like iodine 
and phosphorus, that act especially on gland tissue, 
are able to check the secretion or cause it to stop alto- 
gether. The excretion of medicines in the milk will be 
considered later. 

Summary. From the above, it is evident that the 
gland cells of the udder of each cow are adjusted to 
secrete milk of a rather definite chemical composition 
which, however, changes during the lactation period, but 
tliat these cells react to a number of different influences 
as a result of which they may temporarily secrete milk 
of a somewhat changed composition. 

As would be expected, the limits for the variations 
in the composition of cow's milk are reported differ- 
ently, but milk of a composition that is not included in 
the limits below is indeed very rare. 

Water Casein Albumin Fat Lactose Ash 

83—89^ 2-5fi 0.39—0.95^ 2.6— 7. bf' 4—bM 0.35—1.21^ 

It appears that the fat content is subject to great 
variations; but, if we leave out of consideration old 
milking cows, these variations are much less. The 
quantity in milk of solids not fat (casein, albumin, lac- 



44 MILK HYGIENE 

tose and salts) is far less variable. This applies espe- 
cially to lactose, which seldom shows the given mini- 
mum and maximum percentage. In the detection of 
adulterations J the percentage of lactose furnishes, there- 
fore, a better guide than the percentage of fat. 

By mixing the milk of the members of a herd, the 
individual variations in composition are more or less 
equalized, so the composition of the whole quantity 
approaches the average for cow's milk. There are, 
however, some herds in the milk of which the percent- 
age of fat is much higher than in others ; this is a matter 
of selection or of breed, so, of course, the composition 
of milk of separate herds will not be the same. As cows 
usually calve at certain seasons the number of fresh 
cows and old milkers is not the same at all seasons and, 
for this reason, the composition of the milk changes. 
We have the following figures showing the average x)er- 
centage of fat as found upon daily analyses of milk 
from three large herds. 





February 


May 


August 


November 


a. 


3.18 


3.42 


3.61 


3.47 


b. 


3.69 


3.56 


3.64 


3.77 


c. 


3.03 


3.38 


3.51 


3.32 



In herds a and c, particularly, calving is distributed 
unevenly, which causes the percentage of fat to be 0.5 
per cent, lower in winter than in summer. 

Many of the external influences that have been men- 
tioned as applying to the individual animal and that 
result in a temporary change in the composition of the 
milk, may apply, at the same time, to all of the animals 
in a herd and thereby influence the fat content of the 
herd milk. This is seen when there is a change of food, 
disturbance in the stable, storms, extreme heat and so 
on. However, variations in the composition of the entire 
quantity of milk caused in such ways are, in most cases, 



CHANGES IN THE SECRETION 45 

less than those of single animals, for all members of 
the herd are not affected in the same degree and quite 
often the animals react in opposite ways under the same 
circumstances so that these variations are, in part, equal- 
ized after the milk has been mixed together. The larger 
the herd, the smaller the probability of all its members 
being influenced in the same way at the same time — 
and, therefore, the variations from the normal will be 
so much less. For the same reason, the variations are 
considerably less when the milk of several, but always 
the same, herds, is mixed. 

So far as we know, there are no data in Denmark 
concerning the limits of the composition of normal mar- 
ket milk, and these are not sufficiently established in 
other places — yet it may be assumed that the specific 
gravit}^ does not vary beyond 1.029 to 1.034, the content 
of solids not fat does not exceed 8.6 to 8.8 per cent., and 
the fat varies from 2.75 to 3.5 per cent.^ ^ 

v. CHANGES IN THE SECRETION DURING 
DISEASES OF THE UDDER 

Diseases of the udder that cause material changes in 
the character and the composition of the udder secretion 
are: udder contusion, udder oedema, embolism and 
thrombosis, mastitis, udder tuberculosis, udder actino- 
mycosis and tumors. 

1. Contusions of the udder and the teats which fre- 
quently are caused by cuffing and blows and by kicking 
and tramping by other cows, etc., produce haemorrhage 
of the udder tissues, bloody serous infiltration, or, 
possibly, death of the udder tissue. The changes in 

" Jersey herds, etc., not included. 

^ The figures given above relate to Danish cattle, practically 
all of which are of two breeds which furnish milk containing- a 
much lower percentage of fat than is furnished by most of the 
herds producing market milk in America. [L. P.] 



46 MILK HYGIENE 

the secretion consist, in part, of an admixture of blood 
plasma that is usually invisible and, in part, of blood. 
The latter may appear in freshly drawn milk as drops 
of blood or as little clots. When more bleeding occurs, 
the milk is liable to be diffusely colored reddish and it 
will color the milk from the other quarters, and even 
colors the milk of other cows reddish when mixed with 
it. This admixture of blood cannot be proven by the 
common guaiac method, for fresh milk will give the 
same reaction. The proof is most easily gained by 
means of microscopic examination of the sediment 
obtained by centrifuging the milk, whereupon the red 
blood corpuscles are easily recognized among the milk 
globules. 

2. Udder oedema. It may be supposed that in udder 
oedema, which frequently is very severe soon after calv- 
ing, there is an admixture of transudate with the secre- 
tion, but, so far as known, no investigations have been 
made in regard to this matter. 

3. Embolism and thrombosis occur occasionally in 
the udder and cause gangrene of a gland or of a part of 
one ; frequently there is gangrene of the skin and of the 
teat of the quarter affected. Milk secretion ceases and 
in its place there is a bloody serous exudate. 

4. Mastitis. Inflammations of the udder cause quite 
characteristic changes in the secretion, which often stops 
entirely to give place to a purulent exudate. 

a. Mucous catarrh. When drawn, the milk contains 
small yellowish flakes and lumps which, upon standing, 
unite into a slimy, dirty, grayish sediment or, together 
with the cream, form a lumpy, dirty colored layer on the 
top of the milk. In severe attacks the secretion may be 
viscid, slimy and sticky. 

b. Purulent catarrh. In the beginning, the secretion 
is unchanged but for the presence of small flakes of pus 



CHANGES IN THE SECRETION 47 

and fibrin. The milk secretion decreases more or less 
quickly while the pus cells and fibrin increase in number 
and, finally, the secretion is replaced by a viscid, whitish 
or yellowish purulent exudate or by a quantity of yel- 
lowish serous exudate which contains clumps of pus and 
fibrin. In many cases, the udder shrinks and the exuda- 
tion ceases without the return of the milk secretion; in 
other cases, milk secretion returns either during the 
same period of lactation or after the birth of the next 
calf. In catarrh of the udder, lactose decreases in quan- 
tity while the other ingredients — except ash — undergo 
no quantitative change in the mildest cases. Among the 
ash ingredients, phosphoric acid, lime, magnesia and 
potash decrease materially in quantity, while sodium 
chloride occurs in more than normal quantity. In cases 
when the secretion is mixed largely with exudate, the 
quantity of lactose still further decreases and the casein 
content drops, while albumin and globulin (also fibrin) 
increase. 

c. Parenchymatous mastitis. The changes in the 
secretion correspond essentially with the changes in 
purulent catarrh, but they occur very suddenly and may 
disappear as rapidly. The chemical analysis shows 
changes similar to those in catarrh ; the lactose often dis- 
appears entirely, while the albumin and globulin in- 
crease greatly in quantity. The fats may increase or 
decrease, the salts change as in catarrh. 

d. Gangrenous mastitis. The real milk secretion 
ceases while a bloody-serous liquid is secreted which, on 
account of the existence of bacteria of putrefaction, is 
frequently mixed with gas and has the odor of putre- 
faction. 

The chemical changes that take place in mastitis 
are mainly traced to partial or entire cessation of the 
real milk secretion and to a simultaneous elimination of 



48 MILK HYGIENE 

an exudate having a greater or less admixture of pus 
cells. 

e. Udder tuberculosis. In many cases, the secretion 
remains almost imperceptibly changed for a long period, 
as only very small flakes are intermixed with it. Later 
on, it decreases in quantity, grows thinner and contains 
more flakes, and, finally, it is yellowish or reddish, se- 
rous, contains clumps and flakes and becomes more like 
pus. Chemically, the milk gradually undergoes the same 
change as in cases of other forms of mastitis (Storch). 

f. Actinomycosis and tumors of the udder no doubt 
cause changes in the appearance and the composition of 
the secretion, but no investigations have been made on 
these subjects. 

In mastitis, tuberculosis and actinomycosis of the 
udder pathogenic bacteria are found in the milk; these 
will be discussed later. 

VI. EXCRETION OF FOREIGN MATTER 
WITH THE MILK 

The milk glands may serve to excrete foreign mat- 
ter which, in some way, has found entrance into the 
organ, just as the kidneys and other glands do. Such 
an excretion does not take place to as great an extent as 
was formerly believed, which, considered from a biologi- 
cal standpoint, seems most natural, for the excretion of 
foreign matter would prove a great danger to the young 
animal dependent on its mother's milk for food. Yet 
there are not a few, and sometimes very harmful, sub- 
stances that are excreted from the organism through the 
udder and, therefore, it is one of the problems of milk 
hygiene to prevent the milk of such cows as are affected 
in this way, from being used, just as the physician must 
always consider, in the treatment of mothers and wet 
nurses, what influence medicines to be given may have 
on the nursing child. 



EXCRETION OF FOREIGN MATTER 49 

Reports differ as to what foreign substances are 
excreted with the milk. These differences of opinion 
may be accounted for in part by the fact that many sub- 
stances are not excreted in noticeable quantity until the 
animal has taken relatively large amounts of them. 
Sometimes individual peculiarities operate, for it may 
be that some inflammation not entirely healed, local 
induration or similar changes in the tissues of the udder, 
in short, the injuries that remain after mammitis, favor 
such an excretion. 

It has been mentioned before that the milk contains 
only traces of iron, and this fact alone is a proof that 
iron compounds are not usually excreted with the milk; 
even after the consumption of a great quantity of iron 
during a long time, the iron content does not rise. Con- 
cerning other metals, compounds of copper, lead and 
antimony^ are excreted only in very small quantity, so 
that even a prolonged admin stration of these substances 
to milch cows usually brings about no harmful effects. 
According to investigations by Baum and Seeliger, the 
lead content of milk does not increase beyond 0.0009 to 
0.002 per cent., even after treating cows with large doses, 
and this quantity is without importance, even to quite 
small children. 

On the other hand, mercury is easily excreted 
through the udder, when this substance is taken through 
the digestive organs or when absorbed after applications 
to the skin. Iodine and arsenic also easily enter the milk 
in considerable quantity. 

Opinions differ concerning alkaloids. It is a fact, 
however, that morphine, strychnine, atropine and vera- 
trin are, under certain circumstances, excreted with the 

^ In the older literature, there are recorded a number of observa- 
tions which indicate that tartar emetic may be excreted with the 
milk in large quantity 
4 



50 MILK HYGIENE 

milk in such large quantities as to be dangerous to chil- 
dren. Other substances which can easily be excreted 
with milk are salicylic acid, carbolic acid, aloes, croton 
oil and senna, also the active principles of colchicum, 
hyoscyamus and euphorbium. This is also supposed to 
be the case with mustard; still there is good reason to 
believe that it is true only if mustard is taken with the 
food in large quantities. 

It has often been observed that diarrhoea occurs in 
people who have used the milk of cows fed upon food 
that is moulded, or that has undergone putrefactive 
fermentation. It is presumed, therefore, that some of 
the substances which are formed under these conditions 
in the food materials of the cow may be excreted with 
the milk. But it is possible that in such cases there is 
contamination of the milk from the food during milking 
and so, in this way, bacterial changes may occur ; these 
have not been entirely excluded. 

It was stated above that aromatic substances in for- 
age plants are apparently excreted in slight quantity 
and may give a ' ^ taste ' ' to the milk. [The garlicky taste 
that is so common in milk in the Spring in the Eastern 
United States is due to garlic in the pastures.] We find, 
too, that strongly smelling medicines (asafoetida, ether, 
certain volatile oils, but not all) that are given to the 
cows may impart a taste to the milk. 

It is highly probable that toxic substances which are 
formed in the organism during disease, and also such 
substances that, for example, are reabsorbed from the 
uterus, may sometimes be excreted in the milk, but there 
is no definite information on this subject. On the other 
hand, we know that antitoxins are in part eliminated 
from the blood of the mother animal through the udder 
and, through this channel, they may be used by the young 
to its benefit. 



CHANGES IN MILK 51 

VII. CHANGES IN MILK CAUSED BY 
MICRO-ORGANISMS 

Milk found in the glandular passages and cisterns of 
the healthy udder is usually sterile. On the other hand, 
the ducts of the teats and, still more, the ends of the 
teats usually contain bacteria and, therefore, the milk 
when drawn is infected with them. This is more apt to 
be the case when the milk comes in contact with the 
hands of the milkers, or when it is poured into the not 
always sterile bucket, or when particles of dirt and dust 
from the udder or the skin of the cow, from the clothing 
of the milkers or from the air, drop into the milk. 
Before the milking is finished, a considerable number of 
different bacteria have been added to the milk and 
though, for a time, it has bactericidal properties, that 
is, it is able to kill bacteria or, at least, to prevent their 
growth, yet the number of bacteria does not diminish 
noticeably but, in the course of time, increases enor- 
mously. Shortly after milking, thousands, even hun- 
dreds of thousands, of bacteria may be found in each 
cubic centimetre. 

In inflammatory processes, catarrh, tuberculosis and 
actinomycosis of the udder, infected wounds at the open- 
ing of the teat, etc., bacteria are more or less numerous 
in the milk before it is drawn. In benign udder inflam- 
mations bacteria disappear almost entirely with the 
cessation of the disease, but occasionally it happens that 
the bacterial growth continues for a time in the milk 
contained in the glandular passages, after the secretion 
has become apparently quite normal and after all signs 
of inflammation have disappeared^ 

In general infections, not localized in the udder, as 
a rule no microbes are excreted with the milk. An excep- 
tion to this is foot-and-mouth disease (aphthous fever), 
in which the milk of the affected cows often contains vir- 



52 MILK HYGIENE 

ulent material, the nature of which is not definitely 
established. During this disease, several noticeable 
changes occur in the milk and it is, therefore, very prob- 
able that pathological processes take place in the cells 
of the gland and so an excretion of virus is only to be 
expected. In other acute diseases, as anthrax, hemor- 
rhages may occur in the tissues of the udder and the 
admixture of bacteria from the blood follows naturally. 

The changes in the milk caused by microbes, and par- 
ticularly by bacteria, which comprise by far the greatest 
number of micro-organisms of milk, are very numerous. 
These are most readily studied by working with sterile 
milk (the best way is to use milk which was taken from 
the udder in sterile condition, for milk undergoes quite 
essential changes when heated) and with pure cultures 
of bacteria. The most important changes are the 
following : 

a. The milk is unchanged in appearance, reaction, 
odor and taste in spite of bacterial growth. 

h. The bacteria form alkali (probably ammonia) ; 
the reaction grows more and more alkaline and when, 
after some time, a certain alkalinity is reached, the fat 
is saponified, the neutral casein-lime compound becomes 
a base and, as a result of this, the milk is changed to a 
yellowish translucent, whey-like liquid. 

c. The bacteria split up the lactose, forming acid. 
The main product of this division is lactic acid, some- 
times d-lactic acid, sometimes 1-lactic acid, sometimes a 
mixture of both, i-lactic acid. The reaction may be ex- 
pressed by this formula: Ci2H220i^+H20=4(CoH(j03). 
In fact, however, this process is far more complicated 
for beside the lactic acids, a number of other com- 
pounds are formed in small quantity as by-products: 
alcohol, valeric acid, acetic acid, succinic acid, carbonic 
acid, etc. After a certain amount of free lactic acid has 



CHANGES IN MILK 53 

been formed, coagulation of the casein occurs — at room 
temperature — which either is precipitated as flakes or 
thickens to a firm, jelly-like substance (curdling of 
milk) and frequently contains small gas bubbles. At a 
higher temperature, coagulation occurs in the presence 
of a smaller percentage of acid. If coagulation is caused 
by acid alone, the process unquestionably is a simple 
separation of the casein-lime compound by which the 
casein, insoluble in water, is precipitated unchanged. 
When the casein is filtered out and treated with lime 
water, it dissolves readily. In heating sour milk to 70° 
C. and above, a real coagulation will occur, however, and 
the precipitated casein cannot be dissolved in lime water. 
After the formation of lactic acid has reached a cer- 
tain degree (about 0.8 per cent., which corresponds to 
an amount of acid in 100 c.c. of milk that requires for its 
neutralization about 100 c.c. of a one-tenth normal solu- 
tion of NaaO), the activity of the bacteria ceases, for 
they cannot thrive in the strongly acid liquid, and the 
greater number of bacteria rather quickly perish. The 
different bacteria and yeast fungi which may be the 
cause of lactic acid fermentation, are not sensitive to the 
same degree of acidity, and under the influence of these 
various forms, the milk becomes sour irregularly. These 
various organisms are influenced very largely by exter- 
nal conditions, in respect to their ability to produce 
lactic acid, so that sometimes a longer and sometimes a 
shorter time is required to sour milk, while, in other 
cases, their ability to produce this change is almost lost. 
Of the micro-organisms which can produce a lactic acid 
fermentation, are to be considered the lactic acid bacte- 
ria used in creameries (a group, the various species of 
which have not been definitely differentiated), certain 
yeast-like fungi {Saccharomyces lactis and Saccharo- 
myces acidi lactici) the Bacillus coli communis, strep- 



54 MILK HYGIENE 

tococci and the pyogenic staphylococci. Some of these, 
in addition to producing an acid, develop a ferment 
which has an action somewhat similar to that of rennet 
(see below). 

d. Bacteria may form a rennet-like ferment which 
causes the milk to form a coagulum of the consistency of 
jelly, without souring. The ferment, which can be iso- 
lated comparatively easily from many bacteria, has 
effect in the same manner and under similar conditions 
as chymosin. The precipitated casein cannot be dis- 
solved again by treatment with diluted lime water, and 
it may be assumed that the ferment has produced a 
change of the casein into paracasein, whose compound 
with lime is not soluble, as is well known. A great 
number of bacteria are known which change the milk in 
this manner; for example, forms that belong to the 
typhoid-colon group, many bacilli that are included in 
the large group of spore-bearing hay bacilli, among 
them those named by Duclaux, Tyrothrix tenuis, scaher, 
filiformis, etc. Bacilli belonging to this last group are 
often found in milk, because they are usually frequent 
in the soil and dust and in the excrement of the 
cattle, so that they always find their way into the milk 
when it is drawn. The bacteria under consideration 
have different influences on the milk. While some, 
apparently, only cause the milk to curdle (they also 
separate, at the same time, small quantities of albumose- 
like substances — probably caseoses and peptone), others 
are able to redissolve the casein curd by means of a 
peptonizing ferment (" casease ") — and thus increase 
the quantity of caseoses. Still others not only dissolve 
the curd, but also break up the molecule of albumin, so 
that in the fluid such products appear as peptone, leu- 
cin, tyrosin, ammonia, butyric acid, etc. Sometimes the 
development of butyric acid is so considerable that it 



CHANGES IN MILK 55 

causes the cultures to stink (butyric acid fermentation). 
Finally, the milk is changed into a watery mixture 
which contains some fat lumps and has a more or less 
disagreeable odor. 

e. Bacteria cause coagulation of milk partly by the 
production of acid and partly by the action of ferments. 
Many bacteria as, for example, certain lactic acid 
bacteria and some members of the colon group, coagulate 
milk through the production of acid. The precipitated 
casein is, however, insoluble in diluted lime water, which 
is an indication that it has been changed, by the action of 
ferments, into paracasein. 

/. Bacteria may produce a slimy condition in milk or 
in cream. In this condition, these fluids become thick 
and their consistency is so great that long strings may 
be drawn out. The milk may, at the same time, become 
acid, although usually this is not the case. There are 
many bacteria of different kinds that are capable of 
causing this change. In some cases, the sticky condition 
comes from the rapid swelling of the slimy capsules of 
the bacteria, while in other cases the change is thought 
to be due to unidentified changes in some constituents of 
the milk, presumably the lactose. It has been thought 
that this slimy condition may be caused by feeding a 
certain plant, Pinguicula vulgaris^ in the same manner 
that placing the leaves of this plant in milk may produce 
the change. 

Jonsson has found that there are bacteria on the 
leaves of this plant that make milk slimy or stringy, 
therefore it is, no doubt, safe to conclude that feeding 
with this plant is without special significance in this 
particular. Stringy milk is not unwholesome ; in north- 
ern Sweden it is eaten in the same manner as coagulated 
milk is used elsewhere. 

g. Bacteria may cause abnormal odors and tastes in 



56 MILK HYGIENE 

milk without producing an alteration in appearance or 
any of the changes above noted. 

' The Bacillus foetidus lactis described by Jensen is 
one of the colon group which has the x:)roperty of pro- 
ducing in milk an unpleasant odor similar to the odor 
of turnips, and also a corresponding sweetish, bitter, re- 
pulsive taste. This organism, and closely related forms, 
are probably the real causes of the so-called turnip taste 
of milk. Various micrococci and bacilli are capable of 
producing a very strong bitter taste without altering the 
milk in other respects. This change is sometimes due to 
the production of peptone and, no doubt, to the 
elaboration of other compounds. 

Jensen has described a small bacterium that pro- 
duces in milk an exceedingly strong burnt taste and 
odor, that resembles the odor and taste of malt. This 
was so strong as to cause a malty odor throughout an 
infected creamery. It may be that this bacterium is the 
real cause of the so-called '^ malty taste " of milk and 
butter. Another organism — a micrococcus — was found 
to give milk an unpleasant fatty, burnt taste. 

A bacillus studied by Veigman and Zorn produces an 
unpleasant soapy taste, while a bacterium mentioned 
by Storch gives rise to an oily taste in coagulated milk. 
Other bacteria cause other less clearly marked tastes 
and odors that cannot be more definitely characterized 
than as unclean, 

Jl, Bacteria may cause abnormal coloration of milk; 
the most important abnormalities of this class are : 

Blue milk is caused by the Pseudomonas syncyanea 
(Bacillus cyanogenus)y which produces a grayish color 
on the surface of milk, while in sour milk distinct blue 
spots appear, that may become confluent. 

Red milk. Certain bacteria, as the Bacillus prodigio- 
sus and the Sarcina rosacea, grow on the surface of milk, 



CHANGES IN MILK 57 

producing a red color partly as spots and partly as a 
diffuse discoloration covering the entire surface. The 
Bacterium lactis erythrogenes, isolated by Grotenfeldt, 
coagulates milk and afterwards dissolves the coagulum 
into a red fluid. 

Yellow milk is produced by a number of organisms 
that cause the development of yellow or orange-colored 
spots on the surface. Bacillus synxanthus is an exam- 
ple of these organisms that are derived from the 
atmosphere. 

Summary. Milk that is not sterile and that is left 
to itself, usually undergoes lactic acid fermentation for 
the reason that lactic acid bacteria are present in large 
numbers, and by breaking up the milk sugar to form 
acid, most of the other forms of bacteria are repressed 
to a high degree. Curdled milk may have a clean, sour 
taste, or a more or less unpleasant, bitter, offensive or 
oily taste. The latter condition comes from either 
simultaneous development of other bacteria or from the 
peculiar effects of special lactic acid bacteria which have 
caused the acid formation. Coagulated milk left to itself 
is usually quickly covered with a thin, whitish, consist- 
ent layer formed of milk moulds (Oidium lactis) and, 
not infrequently, colored spots appear that are caused 
by bacteria or fungi, as Penicillium glaucum. By 
degrees the coagulated milk undergoes a putrefactive 
transformation accompanied by a foul-smelling disin- 
tegration of the casein. 

Less frequently, the milk quickly becomes slimy or 
stringy before it has become acid, or while it is begin- 
ning to sour. Or it may early acquire a bitter taste 
and an unpleasant, loathsome odor; very often it does 
not sour and coagulate, but gradually putrefies: the 
usual lactic acid fermentation has not appeared and 
checked the increase of the bacteria of putrefaction. 



58 MILK HYGIENE 

It sometimes happens that milk coagulates quickly 
without souring; the coagulum is quite firm, the taste 
sweetish, often slightly unpleasant. In this case, the 
lactic acid fermentation has ceased, while the bacteria 
referred to in paragraph d have grown freely. Left 
to itself, such milk will quickly become putrid. 

VIII. CHANGES IN MILK AT HIGH TEMPERATURES 

When milk is boiled in an open vessel, it becomes 
covered with a coating of coagulated casein ; after this is 
removed, a new membrane is immediately formed. If 
the milk is constantly stirred, the membrane is not 
formed. The origin of this coating is not entirely clear, 
but it is possible that it comes from a partial drying of 
a superficial layer of milk. 

Viscosity is diminished upon boiling or long pasteur- 
ization, so that boiled milk appears to be thinner than 
raw milk. This is expressed by Babcock by the fol- 
lowing figures relating to two samples of milk tested: 
265 raw, and 250 pasteurized; 275 raw, and 257 boiled. 
The specific gravity of milk changes so little upon heat- 
ing as to be practically of no account. 

Lactose is not changed when simply boiled, but heat- 
ing at a higher temperature causes a burnt condition 
(caramel formation) and partial separation into lactic 
acid, causing the milk to become slightly acid. 

Albumin and globulin coagulate upon heating the 
milk for a short time to 70° to 80° C, and it is probable 
that casein also undergoes a change, but it has scarcely 
any significance and has been studied but little up to 
this time. But if milk possesses a certain degree of 
acidity, heating causes coagulation of the casein. Boiled 
milk is not influenced at all, or only very slightly, by 
rennet ferment; the reason for this is not to be found 
in change in the casein, but lies in the partial transfer- 



CHANGES IN MILK 59 

mation and separation of the calcium phosphate, as 
discussed below. 

A number of investigations have been conducted to 
determine whether or not casein, when boiled, undergoes 
a change in respect to digestibility ; although the results 
do not wholly agree, such a change does not appear 
to take place. 

Pasteurization and boiling cause no material change 
in the fats of milk; the number of the globules is not 
reduced, there is no fusing of the globules. Possibly 
the quantity of volatile acids decreases, but no investi- 
gations have been made on this subject. 

The salts of milk undergo a change upon heating, as 
the soluble calcium salts become, in part, insoluble phos- 
phate of lime, especially tricalcium phosphate, CasPgOg. 

As already mentioned, there is much reason to 
believe that fresh milk contains a peptonizing ferment, 
galactase; if this is the case, boiling or simply pasteur- 
izing must, of course, destroy it. This also destroys 
antitoxins that may be in milk. It is also safe to say 
that toxic substances which result from diseases of the 
cow or come from bacterial growth in milk, are made 
at least partially harmless by continued boiling. 

It is a well-known fact that the taste and odor of 
milk are changed by boiling; the ^' boiled taste " ap- 
pears when it is heated to from 80° to 85° C, but this 
is less strong than that produced at a higher tempera- 
ture and is considerably lessened by prompt cooling, 
immediately after heating. It also appears that the 
^' boiled taste " is less marked when the milk is heated 
in a closed vessel, so that the absorbed carbonic acid 
gas may not escape, or when the milk is boiled in the 
presence of carbonic acid gas. 

The action that pasteurization and boiling have upon 
bacterial growth in milk will be taken up later. 



PART III. 



HARMFUL PROPERTIES WHICH MILK 
MAY POSSESS. 

Under certain conditions, milk may possess harm- 
ful properties. When the cow is diseased, poisonous 
substances may occur in the milk, and the composi- 
tion of the milk may ditf er widely from . normal ; in 
udder infections, milk contains an admixture of patho- 
genic bacteria, and such contaminations may also occur 
during or after milking. Milk may also take on injuri- 
ous properties through the action of saprophytic organ- 
isms and through accidental or intentional additions of 
harmful substances, as preservatives. While, in some 
cases, there is only an altered appearance, taste or odor 
that serves to make the milk unappetizing and to cause 
nausea or, perhaps, vomiting, in other cases the milk 
may be decidedly injurious and cause, under certain 
conditions, serious illness, even an epidemic. 

I. EXCRETION OF POISONOUS SUBSTANCES 
WITH MILK 

It has been stated that different foreign materials 
may be excreted through the udder tissue. This applies 
principally to mercury, preparations of arsenic, various 
alkalies, iodine, irritant substances (euphorbium, etc.) 
and certain volatile oils. Although these substances are 
not often present in great quantities, yet milk may be 
flavored by them, and in this case it may be dangerous 
for small children and weak persons. Since it is safe 
to affirm that many materials that are not usually 

60 



ADDITION OF ANTISEPTICS 61 

excreted through the udder may be excreted under cer- 
tain conditions, and by some cows, it will be wise to 
regard as suspicious all milk from cows that are treated 
medically with remedies that are toxic, and to forbid its 
sale for human food. 

Further, since it is quite probable that toxic sub- 
stances formed in the organism during the course of 
acute infectious diseases may be excreted through the 
udder, there is good reason, also, to prevent the use of 
milk of such animals. 

II. ADDITION OF ANTISEPTICS (PRESERVATIVES) 

The addition of antiseptics is frequently undertaken 
by dealers, in order to increase the keeping quality of 
milk. In some places the addition of preservatives is 
very common and quite a number of antiseptics are 
used. As most antiseptics are harmful not only to the 
lower fungi, but also to the cells of the higher animals, 
and are to be considered as poisons for animals and 
man, it is self-evident that the addition of antiseptics 
siiould be undertaken with great care or, much better, 
omitted altogether. In this connection, it must be kept 
in mind that one person may be peculiarly affected by 
substances that have no effect on another, and that even 
a small addition of an antiseptic may be harmful to 
some people. 

The addition of antiseptics i)revents acidulation and 
coagulation, and so may conceal the fact that the milk 
is already half spoiled. Some substances, in very slight 
quantity, directly prevent the increase of acid-forming 
bacteria, and so, indirectly, they may promote the 
growth of the more resistant bacteria of putrefaction. 

In most countries the addition of antiseptics to milk 
and other foods is prohibited by law. 

The preservatives most used are: boric acid, sali- 



62 MILK HYGIENE 

cylic acid, benzoic acid, potassium bicromate and for- 
malin. Rarely, peroxide of hydrogen and fluorides are 
used. 

a. Boric acid is sometimes used as such, sometimes 
as borax, and is able, when added in the proportion of 
0.1 per cent, to 0.2 per cent., to prevent bacterial growth 
for several days so that coagulation does not take place. 
It is said that boric acid is a harmless substance, and it 
is true that it has been used as medicine in quite large 
doses without injurious effect being perceived. On the 
other hand, observations and investigations have been 
made which fully prove that boric acid may cause 
illness, vomiting and diarrhoea, and if given for a 
prolonged time, may injure the kidneys and cause some- 
what rapid and not inconsiderable loss of weight; the 
latter depends partly on the fact that the food is not well 
assimilated and partly on the increase of metabolism 
(Rubner). Experiments on animals have confirmed the 
results of these investigations and, indeed, demonstrate 
that boric acid may even cause a fatal poisoning; for 
example, Annett fed five kids with milk that was mixed 
with 1 gr. boric acid to the litre; all five died in the 
course of 2 to 4 weeks. It may be said, further, that 
boric acid is excreted from the organism slowly so that 
the toxic effect is not temporary and transitory, so boric 
acid must be considered to be an injurious substance and 
its addition to milk and other food is to be forbidden. 

Boric acid may be detected in milk in different ways : 

According to Villiers and Fayolle, milk is evaporated 
to dr^Tiess and ignited, the ash is wet with sulphuric acid, 
3 c.c. methyl alcohol is added and the solution is distilled 
until sulphuric acid vapor begins to appear. The vapor 
is ignited and if boric acid be present, in even a very 
small quantity, this will burn with a green flame. 

Meissl recommends the following method : 100 c.c. of 



ADDITION OF ANTISEPTICS 63 

milk are mixed with milk of lime, evaporated and 
ignited ; the ash is dissolved in a very little concentrated 
hydrochloric acid; the carbon is filtered out, the filtrate 
is made slightly alkaline and evaporated to dryness. 
This salt is treated with a little turmeric tincture and 
with some very dilute sulphuric acid and is evaporated 
in a water bath. If boric acid is present, the mass is 
colored a distinct cherry red. 

[Leffmann^^ gives the following method: ^^A few 
drops of the sample are mixed with a drop of hydro- 
chloric acid and a drop of strong alcoholic solution of 
turmeric, evaporated to dryness at a gentle heat, and a 
drop of ammonium hydroxide added to the residue when 
cold. A dull green stain shows that boric acid is pres- 
ent.'' 

Richmond ^ offers this method : ^ ^ To a little milk add 
a few drops of phenolphthalein, and sodium hydroxide 
solution, drop by drop, till a faint pink color is pro- 
duced; place some of the milk in two test tubes, dilute 
one with an equal volume of water, and the other with a 
neutral 50 per cent, solution of glycerin ; in the absence 
of boric acid the two tubes will have almost the same 
color, in its presence the glycerin tube will be the 
lighter, and usually white. ' ' L.P.] 

h. Salicylic acid in a quantity equivalent to 0.04 per 
cent, can prevent the souring of milk for 36 hours, even 
when the milk remains at 18° C. It is very hard to 
dissolve and has not been extensively used to preserve 
milk. 

Salicylic acid has the effect of checking digestion and, 
with some persons, it may cause irritation of the kid- 
neys; particularly for children, salicylic acid should be 



^ Analysis of Milk and Milk Products. 
^ Laboratory Book of Dairy Analysis. 



64 MILK HYGIENE 

considered injurious. On this account its use should be 
prohibited. 

The presence of salicylic acid in milk is determined 
in the following ways : 

To 20 c.c. of milk add 2 to 3 drops of sulphuric acid 
and about the same amount of ether, then shake the 
mixture. The ether dissolves the fats and the salicylic 
acid that is present. The ether solution is evaporated 
and the residue is extracted with 40 per cent, solution of 
alcohol and filtered. The addition of a few drops of 
ferric chloride solution to the filtrate gives a violet color 
if salicylic acid be present. (Remont.) 

Girard mixes 100 parts milk with 100 parts water at 
60° C, and then adds a few drops of acetic acid and a 
few drops of a solution of mercuric nitrate, the mixture 
is then shaken vigorously and filtered. The filtrate is 
shaken with ether, which dissolves the salicylic acid. 
The ether layer is then filtered and is evaporated in the 
air; if salicylic acid be present it remains behind as a 
white crystalline mass, which, after solution in alcohol, 
is colored violet by a weak solution of ferric chloride. 

c. Benzoic acid possesses very powerful antiseptic 
l^roperties, but is difficult of solution, and is little used 
as a preservative of milk. Benzoic acid appears to be 
somewhat harmful to man, and may be poisonous in 
large doses; there is little definite knowledge as to its 
special effect on young children. 

The tests for benzoic acid in milk are more compli- 
cated. 400 c.c. to 500 c.c. of milk is made alkaline by 
the addition of lime water and evaporated to about 
one-fourth its volume ; this is then mixed with pulverized 
pumice stone until it forms a thick pap, which is evap- 
orated to dryness over a water bath. The mass is pul- 
verized, moistened with diluted sulphuric acid and 
shaken with a double quantity of 50 per cent, alcohol. 



ADDITION OF ANTISEPTICS 65 

The alcoholic liquid is neutralized with baryta water 
and evaporated to about 10 c.c. Dilute sulphuric acid is 
again added and the liquid is shaken 3 or 4 times with a 
little ether, which is collected each time with a pipette. 
The ether is evaporated and the benzoic acid remains in 
almost pure condition. The mass is dissolved in a little 
warm water and a drop of a solution of sodium acetate 
and a drop of a neutral solution of ferric chloride are 
added. If benzoic acid be present, a reddish sediment 
of benzoate ferric oxide appears (Meissl) ; or a little of 
the dried mass may be treated with a drop of concen- 
trated nitric acid, the latter evaporated and the residue 
mixed with sand and heated to a high temperature in a 
glass tube. The benzoin is indicated by the odor of 
bitter almonds (nitrobenzol). 

[The method of Peters, as given by Leffmann, is as 
follows: '^ The material is made slightly acid and ex- 
tracted with chloroform, which is then evaporated spon- 
taneously. The vessel containing the residue is placed 
in melting ice, 2 c.c. of sulphuric acid added, and stirred 
until the residue is dissolved. Barium dioxide is dusted 
into the mass, with constant stirring, until the liquid 
begins to foam, when 3 c.c. of hydrogen dioxide (3 per 
cent.) are added drop by drop. The dish is then re- 
moved from the cold bath, the contents diluted with 
water to convenient bulk, and filtered. The acid filtrate 
is extracted with chloroform. The benzoic acid will have 
been converted into salicylic acid by the process and the 
latter may be detected by dilute solution of ferric 
chloride or ammonio-ferric sulphate.'' L.P.] 

d. Potassium bichromate is used by chemists as a 
preservative for milk samples. It is seldom used as a 
preservative of market milk. This poisonous material is 
easily detected, if one mixes together equal quantities 
of milk and of a 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver. 
5 



66 • MILK HYGIENE 

If potassium bichromate be present, the mixture has a 
yellow or reddish-yellow color. 
Vp^ e. Formalin or formol is a 40 per cent, solution in 
water of formaldehyde. It is a superior disinfectant 
and is being employed more and more. The presence of 
0.008 per cent, formaldehyde (:==0.02 per cent, formalin) 
is able to check coagulation of milk for 100 hours. The 
addition of formalin causes no change in the fats, there- 
fore it may be used to advantage in samples taken for 
fat determinations. Formaldehyde has, however, a very 
decided effect on albumin and as it has a deadly effect on 
the protoplasma of bacteria, so it is also a powerful poi- 
son for the animal cells and tissues. Investigations by 
Annett have proven that the addition of formalin to 
milk, even in the proportion of 1 to 50,000 may be injur- 
ious, especially for young animals, and even to the point 
of causing death. The addition of formalin to milk 
should therefore be rigorously prohibited. 

There are many ways of detecting formalin in milk : 

1. 100 c.c. of milk are distilled; when about 20 c.c. 
are evaporated, the distillate is tested by the addition 
of 5 drops of ammoniacal solution of silver nitrate (1 gr. 
silver nitrate is dissolved in 30 parts of water and 
enough diluted ammonia water is added so that the sedi- 
ment which appears is again dissolved ; then it is diluted 
to 50 c.c). After the tube has been shaken, it is left 
standing in the dark for some hours. The presence of 
formalin is shown by a black sediment or by a black color 
of the liquid (Thompson). 

2. In many cases it is sufficient to add the silver solu- 
tion directly to the milk, since this either colors it black 
at once or gives it a brownish color if left standing in 
the dark. 

3. According to Lebbins, a test may be made by the 
addition of a little resorcin and 50 per cent, solution of 



ADDITION OF ANTISEPTICS 67 

sodium hydroxide followed by boiling. Distinct red 
color shows the presence of formalin. 

4. Deniges recommends the fuchsin method: To 40 
c.c. of a 0.5 per cent, solution of fuchsin are added 250 
c.c. of water, 10 c.c. of a solution of sodium bisulphite 
and 100 c.c. pure sulphuric acid. Upon standing, the 
liquid becomes decolorized. To 10 c.c. of the milk under 
examination is added 1 c.c. of the prepared decolorized 
fuchsin solution ; after 5 to 6 minutes at the most, if for- 
maldehyde be present, an intense carmine red appears, 
which becomes violet blue upon the addition of 2 c.c. 
hydrochloric acid. 

[5. Richmond has modified and simplified Hehners' 
test so that it is most convenient in milk inspection. It 
is made as follows : To a small quantity of milk, in a 
test tube, add an equal quantity of water. Pour a little 
90 per cent, commercial sulphuric acid down the wall of 
the tube so that it will form a layer at the bottom. If 
formaldehyde be present, a bluish or violet zone devel- 
ops at the junction of the acid and milk. If no formal- 
dehyde be present, a faint, slightly greenish ring forms. 
This test is effective even when so little formaldehyde is 
present as 1 part in 200,000. 

6. Leffmann ^^ recommends the following test, as one 
of the most delicate and positive : ^ ' To a few c.c. of the 
suspected liquid, a pinch of phenylhydrazin hydrochlo- 
ride is added, the liquid shaken and a drop of a dilute 
solution of sodium nitroprusside added and then a few 
drops of sodium hydroxide. Milk containing formalde- 
hyde gives a grayish green. If the test is applied to the 
pure solution obtained by distilling the sample a char- 
acteristic deep blue is produced.'' 

In distilling milk to obtain a distillate containing f or- 

^^ Analysis of Milk and Milk Products. 



68 MILK HYGIENE 

maldehyde for testing it is important to know that, 
according to the researches of Smith and Leonard, only 
a small part of the formaldehyde is distilled over; if 
the milk is rendered alkaline even less is collected, but 
if the milk is acidulated a larger proportion goes into 
the distillate. B. H. Smith (as reported by Leifmann) 
has shown that if 100 c.c. of the milk sample be mixed 
with 1 c.c. of dilute sulphuric acid, of a strength of one 
of acid to three of water, and distilled, one-third of the 
formaldehyde present will come over in the first 20 c.c. 
of the distillate. L.P.] 

/. Alkalies. In connection with antiseptics,- the ad- 
dition of alkalies should be mentioned. To be sure, 
these do not have an antiseptic effect, but still, by the 
neutralization of the acid formed, they hide changes and 
conceal the fact that the milk is, perhaps, already 
spoiled. In this connection the substances to be consid- 
ered are carbonate and bicarbonate of soda, also chalk 
and potash. A distinct alkaline reaction of milk to lit- 
mus paper j^oints to such an addition of alkali and 
demands a further test with rosolic acid. 

Ten c.c. of milk are mixed with 10 c.c. alcohol ( 96 per 
cent.) and a few drops of a 1 per cent, solution of rosolic 
acid are added. Pure milk will become brownish yel- 
low, while milk treated with alkalies takes on a rose red 
color. (Hilger, C. Schmidt.) 

III. ABSORPTION OF ODORS 

Milk possesses a peculiar power to absorb odors. It 
was mentioned above that goat 's milk which is drawn in 
the stable in which the bucks are stalled absorbs some- 
thing of the same clinging, unpleasant, characteristic 
odor. Likewise, cow's milk assumes a foreign odor and 
a false taste when it stands in a place where there are 
strongly smelling substances and especially when it is 



ABSORPTION OF ODORS 69 

milked, poured or aerated in such a place. The odor of 
tobacco is taken up by milk. Oil of turpentine, other 
volatile oils and asafoetida may give an unpleasant odor 
and taste to milk. In this respect some of the worst 
substances are carbolic acid, cresol preparations (creo- 
lin, lysol, etc.) and chlorine, when these materials are 
used for disinfecting stables or dairies. The odor may 
last in these places for several days and the milk will 
take the abnormal taste just as long. A mixture of car- 
bolic acid or cresol preparations (crude carbolic acid) 
and chloride of lime has been used for the purpose of 
making the disinfectant more etfective. This is not to 
be recommended, as trichlorphenol or trichlorcresol are 
formed, compounds that have a more penetrating and 
lasting '^ carbolic odor " than the separate materials. 
Milk which is drawn in stables or kept in places which 
are disinfected in this way is useless, sometimes for 
weeks. 

St. Friis has given a good example of this : a large 
dairy in Copenhagen was in a state of tumult because 
some of the customers complained that the milk deliv- 
ered tasted of carbolic acid. The next day the milk 
from the farms was examined separately, and it was 
found that all the milk, about 500 quarts, from a certain 
herd of 50 cows, smelled and tasted so strongly of car- 
bolic acid that it was declared unfit for use as food. So 
this milk was churned, as it was also the following 
days ; but the butter had the same taint and was almost 
worthless. Not till the fifth day was the milk so 
free from taint that it could be used. This is the 
explanation of the origin of the trouble : the stable on 
the farm in question was cleaned and disinfected with 
a 2 per cent, solution of carbolic acid to which was 
added a small quantity of chloride of lime. The stable 
was aired for two days before it was used again, 



70 MILK HYGIENE 

when the milk in which the defect was discovered was 
drawn. 

IV. TRANSMISSION OF INFECTION BY MILK 
FROM CATTLE TO MAN 

A series of specific diseases are common to cattle and 
man, and the pyogenic bacteria of man occur in ditf erent 
diseases of cattle. Therefore, the question is pertinent : 
Can milk, before it is drawn, contain bacteria that are 
pathogenic for man! It is quite natural that this may 
occur when the disease affects the udder ; but how is it 
with diseases without this local manifestation! Differ- 
ent answers have been given ; some investigators affirm 
that such an excretion of bacteria regularly takes place 
through the udder; others (Jensen, Gartner, etc.) insist 
that this is not the case, that such excretion is gen- 
erally limited to cases in which, during the course of the 
disease, local changes appear in the udder tissue (hem- 
orrhage, inflammation), and that anthrax bacilli, for 
example, by no means always pass from the blood to the 
milk of the infected cow. An exceptional condition 
occurs in foot-and-mouth disease, as in this malady the 
milk contains much infectious matter. But it will be 
shown later that the milk from cows with this disease 
shows a decided departure from the normal, so that it is 
probable that here, too, the excretion of infectious mate- 
rial is associated with pathological change in the udder 
tissue. 

In the case of certain diseases of cows, it may occur 
that pathogenic micro-organisms become mixed with the 
milk during milking and, from a practical standpoint, 
this has, in effect, the same significance as an excretion 
through the udder. 

A more minute account of the diseases of cattle 
which may cause a direct contamination of milk with 
pathogenic microbes will be given below. 



INFECTION BY MILK 71 

) a. Tuberculosis. During recent years quite reliable 
information has been obtained concerning the preva- 
lence of tuberculosis in cattle, partly from the abattoirs 
and partly from the use of the tuberculin test. 

The abattoir statistics of Denmark show differences 
in the prevalence of this disease. In Copenhagen, 30 per 
cent, of the mature cattle are affected ; the same is true in 
Odense, while Arrhus reports a greater percentage. 

In consequence of the results obtained from the 
tuberculin test, Bang regards it as probable that in Den- 
mark half of the small herds of from 1 to 9 members are 
free from tuberculosis, but only a fourth of the herds of 
medium size of from 10 to 49 animals are free, and of 
the large herds only a few are exempt. Concerning the 
proportions in certain herds, the most of the animals 
may be healthy and tuberculosis limited to a few individ- 
uals, but usually the disease is more widely distributed 
and, in large herds, often from 80 to 90 per cent., or even 
a larger number are affected. 

The conditions in neighboring countries are about 
the same. Tuberculosis of cattle, for example, is 
scarcely less extended in Sweden, North Germany, 
Belgium and England than in Denmark, while it is less 
frequent in Norway and South Germany. [This disease 
is also prevalent in certain parts of America, especially 
in the leading dairy sections of the Eastern United 
States.] 

The localization of tuberculosis in the udder is of 
especial interest in connection with milk control, since, 
when this condition is present, milk is always contam- 
inated with tubercle bacilli. But in certain other forms, 
as uterine and intestinal tuberculosis, great quantities of 
bacilli are eliminated with the discharges and the excre- 
tions that soil the hind quarters, so these forms may 
easilv be the indirect cause of infection of the milk. This 



72 MILK HYGIENE 

applies also, to a less degree, to animals that have 
tuberculous broncho-pneumonia. 

There are no reliable statistics to show the preva- 
lence of udder tuberculosis of the cow in Denmark ; but 
the operation of the law requiring the compulsory 
slaughter of cows with tuberculosis of the udder shows 
it to be of quite common occurrence. For this cause 407 
cows were killed during 1898-99 ; 592 in 1899-1900 ; 610 
the following year ; and 584 in 1901-1902. From Saxony 
it is reported that from 1888 to 1897, 1.1 to 3.7 per cent, 
of the tuberculous cows killed in the slaughter houses 
were affected with udder tuberculosis, and in the whole 
German Empire in 1888-89, the percentage of udder 
tuberculosis among the tuberculous cows killed was 1.62. 
Ostertag rates the prevalence of udder tuberculosis at 
4 per cent, of all tuberculous cows. Probably cows 
reacting to the tuberculin test are not to be understood 
among these, but only such as are found after slaughter, 
by superficial examination, to be tuberculous. The num- 
ber of cows with udder tuberculosis is, without doubt, 
very great, and in connection with the control of milk 
one cannot rate the significance of this disease too 
highly. 

There is no information at hand concerning the prev- 
alence of tuberculosis of the uterus. Judging from the 
numerous specimens showing this lesion, received from 
the city abattoir of Copenhagen, it appears to be prob- 
able that this manifestation is quite common. 

In regard to tuberculosis of the intestines, it is 
known that in mature cattle the disease follows tuber- 
culosis of the lungs and liver, especially in the later 
stages; and it is recognized with difficulty by clinical 
examination. 

It has been affirmed — within recent years, by Rabin- 
owitsch and Kempner — that the excretion of tubercle 



TUBERCULOSIS 73 

bacilli in milk quite frequently occurs not only from 
cows that have advanced tuberculosis, but often even 
from animals which react to the tuberculin test, but 
show no clinical signs of disease. Numerous investiga- 
tions (Bang,Nocard,Ostertag and several others) do not 
agree with the results of Rabinowitsch and Kempner. 
It appears to be probable that an excretion of tubercle 
bacilli in the milk takes place only when lesions of tuber- 
culosis are present in the udder tissue ; but these may be 
so young and small that they are not apparent upon 
clinical examination, and are also difficult to see in dis- 
section. It is not impossible, however, that when bacilli 
circulate in the blood in great quantity they may pass 
directly into the milk; but this cannot be a frequent 
occurrence. As early stages of udder tuberculosis are 
not revealed by clinical examination, one must act upon 
the assumption that not only cows with evident udder 
or miliary tuberculosis give milk containing tubercle 
bacilli, but also that this may be the case with many cows 
having advanced tuberculosis, yet without changes in 
the udder that can be detected by clinical examination. 
Even cows that are apparently affected with tubercu- 
losis only to a slight degree, or those that appear by 
clinical examination to be perfectly sound, may give 
tuberculous milk, in some cases, because very early 
metastases occur to the udder and in others because this 
organ appears occasionally to be the seat of primary 
tuberculous infection. 

It has been claimed that cows — even those appearing 
clinically sound — frequently give milk containing tuber- 
cle bacilli after a tuberculin reaction and, therefore, it 
has been advised to prohibit the use of unboiled milk 
from such cows, for a few months after the tuberculin 
test. This assertion is wholly untenable and is com- 
pletely lacking in proof. 



74 MILK HYGIENE 

On account of the great extent of tuberculosis among 
cattle and on account of the frequency with which udder 
tuberculosis occurs, it is to be expected, as is the case, 
that market milk very often contains tubercle bacilli 
in appreciable quantity. It is an established fact that 
mixed milk from the co-operative creameries contributes 
to a great degree to the spread of tuberculosis among 
swine and calves. It has been proven, too, that feeding 
the dirt removed by the milk separator (centrifugal 
slime) to swine, may be dangerous. It is conclu- 
sively established that the obligatory pasteurization of 
skim milk in the various creameries, that has been 
adopted in Denmark in recent years, has greatly aided 
in checking the spread of tuberculosis among swine and 
calves. 

It is quite natural, under these conditions, that it has 
also been possible to show that milk sold in the cities 
contains tubercle bacilli in considerable quantity. St. 
Friis made some investigations of the milk supply of 
Copenhagen in this connection; in testing samples of 
milk from twenty-eight herds in Copenhagen and vicin- 
ity, he found four tuberculous, while 33 samples from 
small farms in Seeland were shown to be incapable of 
producing tuberculosis when inoculated upon animals. 
These results are better than those reached elsewhere 
through similar investigations. In the table on page 75, 
essentially after Klimmer, a review is given of such 
results from different cities. 

These results were gained chiefly by intraperitoneal 
inoculations of milk upon rabbits and guinea pigs and 
are, therefore, to be regarded, to a great degree, as 
authentic. 

The tubercle bacilli are sufficiently resistant to live 
through the souring and other processes necessary in the 
manufacture of milk into butter and cheese, so that but- 



TUBERCULOSIS 



75 



ter, as well as cheese, may contain tubercle bacilli. In 
some places this has been proven by a comparatively 
large number of butter tests. 

In this connection, the question is naturally raised: 
Is tuberculosis transmissible to man through milk and 



City. 



Copenhagen 

Copenhagen 

Berhn 

BerUn 

Berlin 

Halle 

Genoa 

Sch w abisch- Gmiind 
Schwabisch-Gmiind 

Milan 

St, Petersburg 

Dorpat 

Krakau 

Wilna 

Helsingfors 

Paris 

Liverpool 

Liverpool 

Liverpool 

Liverpool 

Liverpool 

Liverpool 

London 





Number of 




Number of 

samples 
examined. 


samples 

in which 

tubercle bacilli 

were found. 


Examination 
made by 


28 


4 


St. Friis 


33 





St. Friis 


40 


3 


ObermuUer 


13 


8 


Obermuller 


64 


9 


Petri 


9 


2 


Buege 


33 


3 


Massone 


43 


5 


Ott 


28 


3 


Ott 


54 


4 


Fiorentini 


71 


4 


Sacharbekoff 


40 


1 


Kudinow 


60 


2 


Bujwid 


22 


12 


Nonewitsch 


21 


8 


v.Hellens 


30 


6 


Girard 


144 


3 


) Boyce, Woodhead 
/ and others 


24 


/ 


55 


3 


Delepine 


125 


22 


Delepine 


159 


12 


Boyce 


91 


16 


Boyce 


100 


7 


Klein 



dairy products? Avian tuberculosis has been shown to 
differ essentially from tuberculosis of mammals; then 
is tuberculosis of man identical with that of cattle? 
With the discovery of the tubercle bacillus, this ques- 
tion was answered affirmatively, and this gave impetus 
to the movement for meat inspection and dairy inspec- 



76 MILK HYGIENE 

tion. Through the discovery of the prevalence of feed- 
ing tuberculosis in swine, horses and cattle, veterina- 
rians have emphasized the great danger that may come 
to man by the use of meat and, especially, of the raw- 
milk of tuberculous animals. Many physicians have 
taken the same ground, while others would minimize 
this danger to a great degree, or combat its existence 
entirely, by pointing out the great infrequency of 
primary intestinal tuberculosis in man, and they claim 
that tuberculosis of man, almost without exception, 
begins in the lungs and is an infection by inhalation. 
There is still disagreement on this subject. It cannot be 
denied that there is a remarkable difference between 
the prevalence of feeding tuberculosis of calves and pigs 
on the one side, and the prevalence of the unmistakable 
feeding tuberculosis of man. 

Since avian tuberculosis has been shown to differ 
from tuberculosis of mammals, and since tuberculosis 
of dogs is not transmissible to rabbits, but evokes only 
a temporary local process (Jensen), it has become neces- 
sary to consider the differences between tubercle bacilli 
from different sources and, especially, to study experi- 
mentally the relation of cattle tuberculosis to tubercu- 
losis of man. Of investigations undertaken in this line, 
those of Th. Smith and Frothingham are valuable 
because they show a certain difference in the bacilli of 
cattle from those of man and prove that tubercle bacilli 
of man possess but slight virulence for cattle. This 
question has become especially interesting since the 
tuberculosis congress in London in 1901, when Koch 
gave the results of experiments that he had conducted 
in connection with Schiitz and, on the basis of these, he 
believed he could affirm that tuberculosis of man is not 
transmissible to cattle and, on the other hand, that 
tuberculosis of cattle is probably not transferred to 



TUBERCULOSIS 77 

man. In support of the latter statement, Koch produced 
statistics which were said to prove the great infrequency 
of man's infection with tuberculosis through food. 

It is evident that the question of the identity or non- 
identity of tuberculosis of man and cattle is of great 
importance in the control of the milk supply. Koch, con- 
sequently, drew the conclusion from his investigations 
that the control of meat and milk, so far as tuberculosis 
is concerned, is superfluous and unnecessary. There- 
fore, we have all the more reason for a closer consid- 
eration of the three questions placed in the foreground 
by Koch's report. 

1. Is tuberculosis from food infection rare in man! 

2. Can human tuberculosis be transmitted to cattle! 

3. Can it be proven that tuberculosis of cattle is 
transmissible to man? 

If we first consider the question of the frequency of 
the occurrence of tuberculosis in man from infection 
through his food, it will be seen at once that differences 
of oj)inion exist concerning the modes of infection. The 
usual opinion (until quite recently) is that by far the 
greatest number of cases of tuberculosis in man are 
caused by inhaling the dry bacilli; there is, however, 
opposition to this view. Ribbert and Aufrecht have 
concluded that tuberculosis of the lungs is of embolic 
origin and others (Grawitz) have found the tonsils to be 
among the most favorable places for the admission of 
bacilli. Observations on animals, particularly on swine 
and monkeys, caution us not to draw definite conclusions 
in relation to the mode of infection from the gross ana- 
tomical lesions. Thus, for example, with swine that 
are infected almost exclusively through the digestive 
canal, tuberculosis of the intestines is an exception, 
while miliary tuberculosis of the lungs often leads to a 
rapidly developing caseous pneumonia. 



78 MILK HYGIENE 

Moreover, tuberculosis is undoubtedly not so infre- 
quently caused by tlie food (primary tuberculosis of 
the intestines and mesenteric glands) as Koch affirms. 
The available statistics concerning the prevalence of 
abdominal tuberculosis differ considerably. While the 
English tables show the prevalence of '' tabes mesen- 
terica '' at about 10 per cent, of all cases of tuberculo- 
sis and at about 30 per cent, of all cases of tuberculosis 
in children, the corresponding figures for Berlin are 

(1898) 1.8 per cent, and 2.8 per cent., for Paris 
(1897) 1.33 per cent, and 1.65 per cent., for New York 

(1899) 0.47 per cent, and 2.86 per cent, and, finally, for 
Boston (1900) 1.14 per cent, and 4.35 per cent.^^ 

This difference is, no doubt, largely due to differ- 
ent interpretations of the post-mortem findings [and to 
the different degrees of prevalence of tuberculosis among 
cattle] but a partial explanation may also be found in 
the fact that most of the milk in England is used in the 
raw state. From some of the German states there are 
reports (Heller and Seitz) concerning the rather frequent 
occurrence of ' ' alimentary tuberculosis ' ' in children. As 
for Copenhagen, Fibiger has stated that primary in- 
fection of the intestines and of the mesenteric glands is 
not infrequent with children. Cases also occur in adults 
that are most naturally pronounced to be primary 
intestinal tuberculosis. 

In reference to the second question — the possibility 
of the transmission of human tuberculosis to cattle — 
investigations have been going on for some time that 
prove that transmission may be effected by inoculation. 
After Koch's report appeared, a great number of experi- 
ments were undertaken to throw light upon this ques- 
tion, the results of which are partially published. Fib- 

^1 Salmon: Relation, of bovine tuberculosis to the public health. 
1901. 



TUBERCULOSIS 79 

iger has given a review of tliese : in 61 series of experi- 
ments, 81 calves, heifers, cows and oxen were inoculated 
with human tuberculosis ; in 41 experiments on 51 ani- 
mals the result of the inoculation was positive. In 
many cases the inoculation caused only local processes 
extending to near-by glands, but the experimental ani- 
mals were all killed comparatively early, so that the dis- 
ease could well have spread further if the animals had 
lived longer. As is known, tuberculosis of cattle fre- 
quently remains local for a long time. Sometimes the 
inoculations caused violent tuberculosis in the experi- 
mental calves, and this was particularly the case when 
the inoculation material came from patients affected 
with ^^ feeding tuberculosis." (Ravenel, Wolff, Fibiger 
and Jensen, Westenhoeffer.) 

The clinical observations that may be cited in answer 
to the third question seem to prove that bovine tubercu- 
losis is transmissible to man. There are many observa- 
tions, principally upon veterinarians and butchers, of 
tuberculous inoculation communicated to the hands and 
fingers through cuts while working with tuberculous 
organs of cattle. In some cases these were only local 
lesions that were healed by surgical means; in others, 
the disease extended to the sheaths of the tendons and 
glands, and in still others, in the course of time, it 
appeared to develop into lung tuberculosis. Greater 
interest attaches to cases of feeding tuberculosis which 
may with great probability be traced to infection 
through milk of tuberculous animals. A large number of 
such cases have been given, from which the following 
have been chosen : 

1. The 17-year-old daughter of Prof. Gosse died of abdominal 
tuberculosis after drinking milk from cows affected with udder 
tuberculosis. Other sources of infection could not be discovered. 

2. Olivier's observation concerns one of the best proven cases 



80 MILK HYGIENE 

of transmission by milk: In a boarding- school 12 young girls 
became ill with signs of intestinal tuberculosis, and 5 of them 
died. All came from healthy families and no source of infection 
was found but one cow which supplied milk for the school and was 
shown to be affected with tuberculosis of the udder. 

3. Demme has reported the following: In the children's hospital 
Bern, four children died of intestinal and mesenteric glandular tuber- 
culosis. He was able to exclude all other sources of infection and to 
prove that the milk came from tuberculous cows. 

4. Hills tells of a 21 months old child that was affected with 
intestinal tuberculosis three months after making an eight-day visit 
to an uncle where it had drunk the milk of a cow having advanced 
tuberculosis. The child died of tuberculosis. Other sources of 
infection were excluded and another child fed only with sterilized 
milk remained healthy. 

5. Ernst reports that three children of the same family died 
of tuberculosis after drinking milk from a cow that later died of 
general tuberculosis with udder involvement. 

Leonliardt, Sonntag, Hermsdorff, Klebs, Rotcli, 
Lydtin and Stang, Johne and many others have reported 
quite similar observations. 

Of particular interest are the cases reported hy 
Eavenel, Fibiger and Jensen, and many others, of tuber- 
culosis of children with prominent lesions in the diges- 
tive canal, while the tubercle bacilli present were so 
virulent for cattle that the origin of the cases in ques- 
tion were referred, with the greatest probability, to 
infection through the milk. 

If one considers that feeding tuberculosis is by no 
means infrequent in man, and occurs quite frequently in 
children, that human tuberculosis is often transmissible 
to cattle, and that clinical knowledge argues for trans- 
mission of bovine tuberculosis to man, and if one con- 
siders that tubercle bacilli from cattle have been proven 
at least as dangerous and generally more virulent for 
all animals than tubercle bacilli from man, then milk 
containing tubercle bacilli must be regarded as most 



TUBERCULOSIS 81 

dangerous to health. Therefore, it must be one of the 
most important purposes in milk control to prevent the 
sale of such milk. 

It is a difficult task to detect tubercle bacilli in milk. 
Intraperitoneal injections of the milk into guinea pigs 
and rabbits may be made, but sometimes many of the 
animals die from other infections (cocci ; other bacteria). 
Sometimes so long a time elapses before the results are 
available that the experiment has lost much of its prac- 
tical value. Moreover, certain similar bacteria (acid- 
fast bacteria) may cause alterations in the experimental 
animals which can hardly be distinguished from tuber- 
culosis. The detection of tubercle bacilli in milk by 
microscopic examination is difficult; a direct examina- 
tion will very seldom give results ; so one must depend 
either on centrifuging, whereby all the little flakes to 
which the bacilli usually adhere may be thrown down, 
and then examined, or other means for separation must 
be used (see below) so that the bacilli may be precipi- 
tated without too great a quantity of sediment. 

Since the number of tubercle bacilli in mixed milk is, 
at most, but small, only a positive result of the examina- 
tion can be final, and even then the result is doubtful 
since, as mentioned before, '^ pseudotubercle bacilli " 
may appear in milk (see below) which are like the tuber- 
cle bacilli in respect to staining and are similar also in 
morphology. 

We must, therefore, depend on the clinical examina- 
tion of the cows in the herd itself, if we would check the 
passage of tubercle bacilli into milk. This inspection 
must be directed especially to tuberculosis of the udder, 
uterus and intestines and, at the same time, to miliary 
tuberculosis and to all cases of lung tuberculosis suf- 
ficiently developed to cause the appearance of clinical 
signs. But the inspection must not be clinical alone ; in 

6 



82 MILK HYGIENE 

respect to the first forms of tuberculosis mentioned, it 
must be microscopic as well, for tubercle bacilli may be 
found in the milk, in the uterine secretion and some- 
times in the excrement when the clinical symptoms are 
such as merely to arouse suspicion. Such an examina- 
tion of the herd, to be efficient, should occur frequently, 
at least every fortnight, since this disease, and especially 
tuberculosis of the udder, may develop materially in this 
time.^2 

It can hardly be stated, in general, how strict the 
regulations regarding tuberculous animals should be. 
In some countries it is only forbidden by law to use milk 
unboiled from cows with udder tuberculosis. Milk from 
cows with tuberculosis of the uterus, of the intestines 
and miliary tuberculosis, and also from cows that are 
cachectic, should not be permitted to be sold. It would be 
best, if it could be arranged, to allow the sale of milk 
from herds in which there are tuberculous animals only 
under declaration of the condition of the herd; but on 
account of the great extent of tuberculosis no such 
requirement has been made. It is a reasonable and, at 
the same time, an absolutely necessary requirement that 
the so-called '^ nursery milk," milk intended especially 
for small children and invalids, should come from a 
herd which is entirely free from tuberculosis, that is, a 
herd composed of cows none of which have reacted to 
the tuberculin test. 

Tests. — The discovery of tubercle bacilli in the milk 
of individual cows with advanced udder tuberculosis and 
in the discharge from the uterus, is usually easy. A 
small quantity of the fluid or a little flake or lump is 
spread upon a cover glass, it is fixed in the usual way in 
the flame and then stained according to one of the 
methods given below. 

1- This relates to herds known to be infected. [L. P.] 



TUBERCULOSIS 83 

1. Ziehl-N eelsen method. One grm. of fuchsin is dis- 
solved in 10 c.c. alcohol and 100 c.c. 5 per cent, phenol 
water and the solution is filtered. By means of a 
pipette, a liberal quantity of this staining fluid is 
dropped on the cover glass which is held by pincers 
above a flame a couple of minutes until the fluid 
boils briskly, but without drying. Then the cover glass 
is rinsed with water and treated for a few seconds 
with 25 per cent, sulphuric acid and again rinsed with 
water. If the red color is still distinct, the treatment 
with acid is repeated and the cover glass is rinsed 
carefully with a little alcohol. Finally, a few drops of 
watery solution of methylene blue are dropped upon it, 
after which it is again rinsed with water and mounted. 

2. KiWs method. To 100 c.c. saturated anilin water 
are added 1 c.c. of a 1 per cent, sodium hydrate solution 
and 4 to 5 grm. of fuchsin. Or, the above mentioned 
phenol-fuchsin solution may be used. The cover glass is 
treated as described above, then rinsed and dipped for 
one-half minute in a fluid consisting of 50 c.c. alcohol, 30 
c.c. water and 20 c.c. nitric acid, to which has been 
added as much methylene blue as the fluid will dissolve. 
Finally, the slide is rinsed with water. 

3. Czaplewshi's method. The staining is done by 
heating with phenol-fuchsin solution as given above. 
Allow the staining fluid to run off and, without rinsing, 
dip the cover glass six to ten times into a concentrated 
alcoholic solution of fluorescein (1 grm. in 100 c.c. alco- 
hol). The double staining comes from repeatedly 
dipping the cover slips in concentrated alcoholic solution 
of methylene blue (5 to 100) ; then they are rinsed in 
water. By this method, a decoloration of tubercle bacilli 
is avoided with certainty. 

In all cases, the preparation is mounted and ex- 



84 MILK HYGIENE 

amined in the usual way with an immersion lens and 
Abbe condenser. The tubercle bacilli are colored red, 
other bacteria and the rest of the preparation are 
colored blue. 

So-called *' acid- fast " bacilli may occur in milk 
and butter as well as in the excrement of the cow. These 
bacilli, which by the above methods are also colored red, 
are difficult to distinguish with certainty from the real 
tubercle bacilli, even by microscopic examination, al- 
though they are usually thicker and shorter. Unfortu- 
nately, we know but little of the conditions governing 
their occurrence in milk. There is reason to believe that 
they usually occur as a result of accidental contamina- 
tion after the milk is drawn. In order that one may 
be quite safe in his conclusions from this examina- 
tion, and be able to avoid confusing the acid-fast and 
tubercle bacilli, the udder secretion or the discharge 
from the uterus that is to be examined microscoi)ically 
must be taken as pure as possible in a clean tube and, if 
the examination cannot be made at once, an antiseptic (a 
little ether or chloroform, a few drops of formalin) 
should be added. Acid-fast bacilli accidentally added, 
will not increase under these conditions, and their num- 
ber will always be so small that they can hardly be de- 
tected. It is, however, not wholly disproven that such 
bacilli may appear in the milk before it is drawn. De 
Jong has reported a case of mastitis caused by acid-fast 
bacilli, but this is the only case of the sort reported up 
to this time. From knowledge gained during the last 
four or five years in the experimental laboratory of 
Copenhagen from investigations of milk samples and 
the control of the diagnosis of udder tuberculosis from 
small samples of tissue from condemned and slaughtered 
cows, it follows that errors very seldom occur as a result 
of confusing these organisms. 



PSEUDO-TUBERCLE BACILLI 85 

When it comes to the examination of milk of normal 
appearance, the question is usually more difficult, be- 
cause the number of tubercle bacilli is less. A direct 
microscopic examination of the milk is rarely useful ; it 
is better to pour a little of it on a dark surface and pick 
out with a needle the small flakes which are usually 
present and form the little lumps of fibrous exudate to 
which the bacilli adhere. Still better results are reached 
by centrifuging the milk and examining the sediment. 
Any milk centrifuge may be used for this purpose (in- 
cluding those used for determining the amount of fat) 
and it may be driven by steam or by hand power. Of 
course, a large centrifuge of high speed is best. 

Instead of the centrifuge, the separation of tubercle 
bacilli by other means has been suggested. 

For this purpose Biedert employs the following 
method : 100 c.c. milk are mixed with 4 to 8 drops of solu- 
tion of sodium hydroxide; the mixture is well shaken 
until the small flakes and lumps are dissolved, then it is 
boiled. The cloudy fluid is poured into a conical glass 
and left standing for some time. The sediment that 
collects in the point of the glass may be drawn off by a 
pipette and examined microscopically. 

The practice has also been followed of submitting the 
milk to special treatment with chemicals before it is 
centrifuged. 

Thus, Ott mixed together 25 c.c. milk, 2 c.c. concen- 
trated ammonia water and 100 c.c. of a mixture of equal 
parts of ether and petroleum ether, in a separator flask 
with a glass stopper. After being shaken and allowed 
to stand, the ammonia-casein solution, in which the 
bacilli are found, is drawn oif from the bottom and 
centrifuged. 

Hammond's method is as follows : 100 c.c. of milk are 
mixed with 5 c.c. of phenol ; 15 to 30 c.c. of the mixture 



86 MILK HYGIENE 

are placed into two tubes and centrifuged for 15 min- 
utes. The fluid is poured off and 3 c.c. of a 5 per cent, 
solution of jjotassium hydroxide are added to the sedi- 
ment. After violent shaking, the liquid is allowed to 
stand 2 to 3 minutes, then 15 c.c. of water are added to 
it ; it is shaken and centrif uged 20 minutes. Then, 15 c.c. 
of the liquid are drawn off from above, while the residue 
is examined microscopically in the usual way. 

The detection of tubercle bacilli in milk by cultiva- 
tion is most difficult and without practical utility. In 
doubtful cases, where the result of the microscopic exam- 
ination is uncertain, it is advantageous to ^' harpoon " 
the udder, thereby removing a small sample of the deep 
tissue of the udder for examination microscopically or 
by the inoculation of experimental animals, as guinea 
pigs. 

Statements of the temperature at which tubercle 
bacilli are killed, vary greatly. While, in the first in- 
stance, Bang and other investigators found that momen- 
tary heating to 85° C. killed, Legay and Bech reported 
that brief boiling was not always sufficient, and Volsch 
found that even repeated boiling would not always kill 
tubercle bacilli. On the other hand, Th. Smith reached 
the conclusion that even a far lower temperature than 
those originally given would kill with certainty if the 
formation of a pellicle during heating was prevented. 
According to the most recent investigations, carried out 
with the greatest accuracy by Bang and Stribolt, it is to 
be considered as proven that heating at 65° C. for 5 
minutes or momentary heating at 70° C. kills the bacilli 
with certainty and that the former uncertaint}^ on this 
subject arose principally from faulty methods in the 
experiments. The observations by Legay, Bech and sev- 
eral others show, however, that in practice a very 
high degree of heat must be attained to be safe, and that 



FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE 87 

even boiling for a short time without especial precau- 
tionary measures, is not always sure to kill all bacilli, 
because there is a part of the milk (little drops on the 
upper part on the vessel, bubbles, scum or froth on the 
surface) which is not thoroughly heated. It is, there- 
fore, a matter of great importance to determine whether 
the forms of apparatus used for pasteurization are 
really so constructed that all of the milk is equally heated 
to a desired temperature. At present, nothing definite 
can be said about this, since no investigations have been 
made to determine the amount of froth formation and 
the temperature the froth reaches in the different forms 
of apparatus. When market milk is pasteurized the 
functional capacity of the apparatus should be very 
carefully tested. 

b. Foot-and-mouth disease. It has long been known 
that milk from cows with foot-and-mouth disease is infec- 
tious, and may carry the disease to man. A hundred 
years ago, in South Germany, the use of milk from such 
cows was prohibited for use as food for man. In the 
lighter forms of the disease the milk remains unchanged, 
but with cows badly affected, there is not only a decided 
diminution in quantity, but its appearance and composi- 
tion are changed. In such cases, the milk becomes thin, 
separates a slimy layer of cream, of dirty color, and there 
is quite abundant sediment or, as happens infrequently, 
it becomes richer in fat with a simultaneous falling off 
in quantity. Under the microscope, leucocytes and 
broken-down tissue-cells are found in greater quan- 
tity than usual, sometimes red corpuscles also. The 
milk contains a greater quantity of albumin and globulin 
than usual, so that when boiled, large clumps and flakes 
separate and the sugar and casein fall off in quantity — 
all changes which are symptomatic of an admixture of 
inflammatory exudate. 



88 MILK HYGIENE 

Just how often the milk of the affected cows is viru- 
lent, is not known. Apparently, this is frequently the 
case, and certainly it is when the milk shows the changes 
mentioned. The virus may, moreover, enter the milk as 
it is being drawn, if vesicles occur on the teats or udder. 
The quantity of milk decreases noticeably during the 
course of the disease and it seldom reaches its original 
flow after recovery. 

This disease is very easily communicated by the milk 
to other cattle, to swine and, as is known, to man. Chil- 
dren are especially susceptible. Brussenius and Siegel 
have collected a large number of the cases mentioned in 
the literature of foot-and-mouth disease in man. Dur- 
ing the years from 1878 to 1886, 16 different epidemics 
of the disease in man were observed. Not only were all 
the members of single families attacked, but also numer- 
ous inhabitants of whole villages and towns. During 
one epidemic, 36 died; during another, 23 and during a 
third, 16. All the epidemics occurred simultaneously 
with foot-and-mouth disease of cattle in the affected 
districts and, almost without exception, the infection 
came from the use of raw milk. From 1886 to 1896, 172 
cases in man were reported in the annual reports of the 
German Imperial Health Office, 66 of which were traced 
to infection through milk, while one case occurred from 
the use of butter made from the milk of an infected cow. 

The course of the disease in man may be light or 
severe and, as said, the disease may end in death. The 
symptoms are : fever and weakness, conjunctivitis, for- 
mation of vesicles on the mucous membrane of the 
mouth, the lips, the ears, the nose, fingers or, less fre- 
quently, on other places on the body; besides, nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea ; sometimes redness of the skin and 
arthralgia. It is transmissible from man to man. 

The virus of foot-and-mouth disease may occur even 



COWPOX 89 

in butter, buttermilk and cheese, since it is not killed 
by the treatment which milk undergoes in their 
manufacture. 

This virus, the appearance of which is wholly un- 
known (probably on account of its ultramicroscopic 
size), is not particularly resistant. It has been proven 
by experiments made during recent years in Germany 
that the virus dies after 10 minutes' exposure at 70° C. 
and by being heated to 100° C. for an instant. Experi- 
ments made in Denmark seem to have shown that pas- 
teurization at 80° to 85° C, as is done in our cooperative 
creameries, is, without doubt, enough to destroy the 
virus. 

c. Cowpox. This disease attacks particularly the 
teats of the cow, and therefore it cannot be doubted that 
during milking the virus held in the vesicles sometimes 
falls into the milk. Since the vaccine virus is known to 
be very potent, and since man is peculiarly susceptible 
to it, it is evident that the disease is transmissible 
through milk to man. But, while there are numerous 
examples of direct infection on the hands and face of 
the milker, there are only a few observations of an 
infection through the use of such milk. The infrequency 
of such cases may come partly from two conditions, 
namely, that most persons are early immunized by com- 
pulsory vaccination and that small children usually drink 
the milk after it has been boiled or, at least, heated. 

Among the examples of this disease in children, which 
have occurred through the use of milk from infected 
cows and which are to be taken as unmistakable trans- 
mission of the disease, the following observation by 
Stern may be given: Cowpox broke out in a herd of 
milch cows; a large number of children that had used 
milk from this herd became atfected with an eruption on 
the face, which healed, leaving scars. 



90 MILK HYGIENE 

During the course of cowpox, milk may undergo quite 
noticeable changes in that it becomes thin and bluish and 
coagulates very easily. This change has not yet been 
closely studied, and it does not appear to be constant. 

d. Anthrax. During the course of anthrax, the secre- 
tion of milk falls off suddenly and decidedly. The milk 
secreted is thin and its composition is supposed to be 
abnormal. According to a report of Monatzkows, the 
percentage of sugar and fat is increased and the albu- 
min decreased. Perdix states that the milk contains 
ammonia. 

Chamberland and Roux, Nocard and several other 
investigators have observed that the milk of cows af- 
fected with anthrax contains virulent bacilli. According 
to the experiments of Monatzkows and of Jensen, this is 
not always the case. Since the milk is often mixed with 
blood, following slight hemorrhages in the udder tissue, 
it is probable that the admixture of bacilli occurs only 
when such hemorrhages take place. 

As anthrax bacilli are able to penetrate the mucous 
membrane of the digestive canal in man, the milk of a 
cow suffering with anthrax is to be considered very dan- 
gerous. This was mentioned long ago by Heusinger, 
but so far as is known to the author there is only a 
single questionable observation of such transmission 
(Karlinski). 

The milk from healthy cows in a herd in which a 
case of anthrax has occurred must be regarded as harm- 
less, for the disease is accompanied by striking symp- 
toms and bacilli are not to be found in the milk before 
the late stages of the disease. Cows that still appear 
healthy, give milk free from bacilli even though they be 
affected. Apropos of this, the following statement is 
contained in Section 26 of the instructions to the Danish 
veterinary police: ^^ Milk from sick [anthrax] animals 



RABIES 91 

must not be used for food for man or beast. The owner 
may dispose of milk from the healthy members of the 
herd — in so far as the sanitary police give no other 
order — unhindered, under the condition that he pledges 
himself to observe closely the condition of the health of 
the herd and to separate at once those animals which 
show suspicious symptoms, such as lack of appetite, 
cessation of rumination, diminution of milk yield and 
the like. Milk from animals that are separated must 
not be mixed with that of the healthy animals. ' ' 

The health authorities may, however, have good rea- 
son to forbid the sale of unboiled milk in cases when the 
disease breaks out violently in a herd, as then the danger 
exists that bacilli may enter the milk when it is drawn, 
for the sick animals excrete bacilli with the bloody ex- 
crement and the stable, in spite of all care and disinfec- 
tion, may be so thoroughly infected that there is the 
possibility of contaminating the milk. 

e. Rabies. The virus of rabies, yet unknown, is espe- 
cially associated with the central nervous system and the 
salivary glands. Frequently it may be found in other 
glands and even in the udder. A number of observa- 
tions by Nocard, Perroncito, Bardach and several others, 
have proven that the virus may be secreted with the milk. 
All attempts to convey the disease to healthy animals, 
through food containing infectious material, have thus 
far resulted negatively, and hence numerous opinions 
have been expressed to the effect that there is apparently 
no danger to man in the use of milk from cows that have 
been bitten by a mad dog and that are themselves rabid. 

Yet, since the possibility is always present that infec- 
tion may occur through a slight lesion of the mouth or 
pharynx, milk from cows infected with rabies (cows 
that have been bitten by rabid dogs) is to be regarded 
as most dangerous to health. 



92 MILK HYGIENE 

/. Lung plague. According to the few investigations 
that have been made, milk undergoes a considerable 
change during the course of this disease. The fat con- 
tent is lessened and the albumin increases in quantity. 
After standing, the milk is quickly separated into a 
layer of cream and a lower serum-like layer. Haukold 
affirms that the milk has a peculiar odor and taste, and 
may cause vomiting in man. Wiedermann, Lecuyer 
and Randou have observed some cases where, according 
to their opinion, lung plague has been carried to chil- 
dren through the use of milk from infected cows. 
Though at least one case, in respect to its pathological 
anatomy, showed great similarity to the peculiar pneu- 
monia that occurs in this disease of cattle, it should not 
be regarded as established that man is susceptible to 
this disease, and especially is transmission through milk 
unlikely, because it is not possible to prove the presence 
of the specific virus in the blood or in the milk by 
inoculation. 

The changed condition of the milk is enough, how- 
ever, to prohibit its use. But such an interdiction is 
unnecessary in almost all civilized countries on account 
of the regulations of the veterinary police regarding 
this disease. 

g. Actinomycosis. Actinomycosis belongs to the 
comparatively frequent diseases of the udder of the cow 
where it apparently originates primarily. Sometimes 
it appears as miliary actinomycosis with a number of 
quite small lesions distributed throughout the gland af- 
fected, and in this form it may resemble a fresh udder 
tuberculosis. More often, actinomycosis appears as sin- 
gle or multiple nodules from the size of a nut to that of 
an Qgg — these are surrounded by newly formed connec- 
tive tissue and may break through the skin of the udder. 

There are no recorded investigations concerning the 



MASTITIS 93 

changes in milk secretion during this disease, nor have 
the actinomyses or ray fungi yet been found in milk, 
in which they probably occur. Man may be infected 
through the digestive canal (the mouth and intestines), 
just as cattle are, and on this account the possibility of 
contagion through milk should not be disregarded. 
Therefore, milk from cows atfected with udder actino- 
mycosis (which, however, is not often diagnosed in liv- 
ing cows) should not be used as food for man. 

h. Inflammation of the udder (mastitis). The forms 
of inflammation of the udder occurring in the cow may 
be divided into the following principal classes, which 
differ chiefly according to the grade of inflammation, 
the extent to which the milk secretion is checked and the 
character of the exudate : 

1. Mucous catarrh; 

2. Purulent catarrh; 

3. Parenchymatous, purulent mastitis, ultimately 
accompanied by abscesses ; 

4. Gangrenous mastitis. 

These forms cannot always be distinctly separated. 
The changes caused through inflammation of the udder, 
in the chemical composition of milk were described 
above. 

The various forms of mastitis are of microbic origin. 
There are many kinds of bacteria which, if admitted 
to the milk cistern, may cause inflammation of the glands 
and, upon examination of the spontaneous cases, quite a 
large number of mastitis bacteria have been found, 
chiefly such as cause inflammation elsewhere in the 
organism. By far the most cases of udder inflammation 
arise from bacteria which belong to one of the following 
groups : 

1. Streptococci, which usually cause chronic mucous 
(slimy) or i)urulent catarrh, ending with atrophy of the 



94 MILK HYGIENE 

udder tissue and agalactia. More rarely, streptococci 
occur as causative factors of a mild catarrh of the udder. 

2. Staphylococci, which sometimes cause a milder 
form of udder catarrh, and sometimes cause a light 
or moderately severe parenchymatous inflammation, 
which may end in recovery, in abscess formation or in 
contraction of the udder. The Staphylococcus pyogenes 
aureus and alhus are found, but others occur as welL 
In this group, as is known, the differentiation is 
difficult. 

3. The colon group. The parenchymatous forms of 
mastitis caused by organisms of this group may be mild, 
medium or severe, and they may end in spontaneous 
recovery, necrosis, gangrene and formation of abscesses^ 
or in induration. The systemic manifestations may 
be very marked, and the infection may even result 
fatally. 

It is impossible to determine by clinical signs which 
bacteria are present. In order to decide this, it is 
necessary to resort to microscopic and bacteriological 
examination. 

It is important for us to note that streptococcus 
forms of mastitis not infrequently appear as a con- 
tagious disease and little by little extend to a large pro- 
portion of the cows of the herd. It is also important to 
note that streptococci in certain forms of mastitis may 
continue in the secretion after the principal clinical signs 
have disappeared, and are able to again cause a breaking 
out of inflammation of the gland when lactation begins 
anew. 

The admixture of pus gives the milk a most unappe- 
tizing appearance, often causes an unpleasant taste and 
frequently causes it to putrefy quickly, or to curdle. On 
this account, it is necessary to prevent the mixing of the 
secretion from infected glands with the other milk. Be- 



MASTITIS BACTERIA 95 

sides, it is highly probable that the pus itself may be 
harmful if it is taken by small children. The greatest 
weight, however, is to be placed on the possibility that 
the bacteria contained in the mastitis milk may cause 
disease in man, if they are taken into the digestive canal. 
We know that staphylococci and streptococci which have 
reached the human digestive canal in other ways have 
sometimes proven to be most virulent, and we may sup- 
pose that the same is true of mastitiscocci and possibly 
also of the coli-aerogenic forms. 

Inflammation of the udder is a very common condi- 
tion of the cow and, therefore, it might be expected that 
there would be frequent opportunity to observe the 
harmful effect of infected milk upon man. That this is 
not the case may be due partly to the relatively low 
virulence of some of the mastitis bacteria for man, and 
because it is only in the rarest cases that it is possible 
for the physician to gain sufficient information to trace 
the special disease of his patient to the use of milk, and 
then to trace this to a certain diseased cow. Further, 
there is the fact that most milk for small children is used 
boiled, so that the bacteria present have, for the most 
part been killed.^*^ As examples of the danger of using 
the milk from cows with mastitis, the following cases of 
disease may be mentioned : 

1. In Christiana, in 1894, A. Hoist observed acute 
catarrh of the stomach and intestines in four adults and 
four children, who lived in three separate houses. They 
had all drunk milk some hours before the attack. Those 
members of the household who had taken little, or boiled, 
milk remained in good health. The milk in question had 
a normal appearance, but was slightly acid and con- 
tained masses of short or long streptococci. The milk 

^^ In Denmark, as in other countries of Continental Europe, very 
little raw milk is fed to children. [L. P.] 



96 MILK HYGIENE 

came from a herd in which a cow with mastitis was 
found, and it was explained that her secretion had been 
mixed with the common supply that very day. 

2. Prof. Hoist has also reported the following cases : 
Five persons were attacked with acute catarrh of the 
stomach and intestines a couple of hours after drinking 
milk from the same milk shop. The milk came from a 
herd in which a case of inflammation of the udder, 
caused by streptococci, was discovered by special inves- 
tigation. Here, also, it was shown that mastitis secretion 
had been mixed on the same day with the other milk, 
through the mistake of a new servant. 

3. Dr. Johnnesen observed, likewise in Christiana, 
two cases of diarrhoea (mother and child) which began 
two hours after the use of raw milk which contained 
numerous diplococci and streptococci. The examination 
of a herd that had furnished the milk revealed that two 
cows suffered with inflammation of the udder, and in 
their secretion these cocci were found. Apparently still 
other cases arose from the use of the same milk, but 
these were not investigated closely. 

4. Four children of one family were attacked with 
acute catarrh of the stomach and intestines, also a child 
of another family. The disease, in both cases, was 
traced to the same milk. This appeared by superficial 
examination to be normal, but by microscopic examina- 
tion it was shown to be rich in diplo- and streptococci. 
Here, also, it appeared with practical certainty that the 
harmful quality of the milk was derived from a case of 
mastitis. 

5. In Stockholm ^* the members of nine families be- 
came ill with the following symptoms: fever, languor, 
faintness, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, together with 

** Zeitsehrift f iir Fleisch und Milchliygiene, x. p. 280. 



MASTITIS 97 

cramps in the legs. The disease was traced to the use 
of milk from the same herd. This herd comprised 14 
cows, one of which was proven to be afflicted with mas- 
titis. Two persons working in the stable were sick with 
these same symptoms. The same forms of bacteria were 
found in the faeces of the sick persons that were found in 
the udder secretion of the diseased cow. 

6. Moro ^^ has reported the following case due to the 
use of the milk of a goat suffering with a necrotic 
inflammation of the udder: six persons who had taken 
the milk in coffee became very sick one to two hours 
afterward; they had chills, were nauseated and had 
headache ; 11 hours later colic, vomiting and great thirst. 

7. Lameris and van Harrevelt ^^ mention an outbreak 
of diarrhoea among a number of persons in a hospital. 
The disease was traced with comparative certainty to 
the use of milk. This came from a herd in which several 
cases of streptococcus mastitis were found. The infec- 
tion probably came from the use of milk from a cow that 
appeared to have recovered, but whose milk still con- 
tained streptococci. As the milk was used only after 
being boiled it was thought that the disease was really 
due to the presence of toxins, but it is very probable that 
streptococci may have lived through boiling of milk, as 
tubercle bacilli have, that is in the film, froth, scum or 
on the spoon, etc. 

An observation by Edwards and Severn ^^ seems to 
belong here. It concerns an epidemic of follicular in- 
flammation of the tonsils which was traced to the milk, 
probably from one cow, which contained staphylococci 
and streptococci, which bacteria were also found in the 
coating of the throat of the affected persons. 

*•"' Arehiv f. Wissensch. u. prakt. Tierheilkunde, 1886, p. 411. 
1^' Zeit. f . Fleisch u. Milchhy^iene, xi. p. 114. 
1^ Britisli Medical Journal, ii. 1897, p. 339. 

7 



98 MILK HYGIENE 

In the literature there are reports of numerous simi- 
lar epidemics of inflammation of the throat in man 
which had their origin in infection through milk, but 
there are no proofs that these were caused by cases of 
mastitis. They may have come from a later contamina- 
tion of the milk with pathogenic bacteria. 

[A large number of cases of this sort are recorded by 
Swithinbank and Newman in their '^ Bacteriology of 
Milk," published in 1903. L. P.] 

Since cases of udder inflammation in which the secre- 
tion contains bacteria harmful to man cannot be differ- 
entiated by clinical means from the less dangerous, the 
milk of every coiv affected with mastitis should he re- 
garded as injurious to health. This applies not alone 
to the altered secretion, but also to the apparently nor- 
mal milk from the parts of the udder not affected. The 
diseased secretion will always soil the udder and teats, 
and therefore there is no warranty that the bacteria in 
question do not fall into the milk when drawn from a 
healthy section of the udder. This is true especially 
when the improper practice is followed of milking the 
diseased secretion on the floor. 

If a case of gangrenous mastitis appears in the 
herd, the affected animal must be removed from the 
stable, since it is possible that the milk will be contam- 
inated with bacteria that are often especially virulent 
and that multiply very rapidly. Upon the occurrence of 
infectious inflammations of the udder in a milch herd it 
may be necessary to forbid the sale of milk that is not 
boiled. Milk from a herd affected with this disease 
should never be used as ' ' nursery milk. ' ' 

i. Acute croupous and hemorrhagic enteritis. Some- 
times a virulent enteritis occurs among young cattle ; it 
appears less often among mature cattle ; it may appear 
as a sporadic disease or as a small pidemic. This dis- 



INFECTION BY MILK 99 

ease is accompanied by fever and signs of great consti- 
tutional disturbance, and it quite often ends in death. 
The pathological changes have been studied compara- 
tively little up to this time. It may, however, be stated 
that there is sometimes found a diffuse inflammatory 
hyperasmia in the mucous membrane of the whole small 
intestine, sometimes very extensive pseudo-membranes 
form a cast within the intestine, while in other cases 
swelling and hemorrhagic infiltration of Peyer 's patches 
are found which, at the same time, may be ulcerated, or 
covered with crupo-diphtheritic exudate. The mesen- 
teric glands, usually other glands, too, are swollen and 
more or less hyperaemic, or even hemorrhagic ; the spleen 
may be enormously swollen. In some cases the lesions 
somewhat resemble typhoid fever in man, yet the disease 
is not identical with it. 

The investigations that have been made by Jensen 
indicate that these forms of enteritis are, as a rule, 
caused by bacteria which belong to the hog cholera group 
and that are therefore closely related to the typhoid 
bacillus. The flesh of the infected animals may be most 
dangerous to health ; not a few of the so-called ^ ' meat 
poisoning,'' epidemics have been traced directly to these 
forms of enteritis, and most of the bacteria isolated in 
meat poisoning cases belong to the hog cholera group. 

It is not impossible that in virulent enteritis bacteria 
that have entered the blood may, now and then, be 
excreted in the milk as, for example, when there are 
slight hemorrhages in the udder tissue ; doubtless, 
however, a serious contamination may occur during 
milking, for in this disease diarrhoea is a prominent 
symptom and the afflicted animals are much soiled by 
their fasces. 

A positive example of the transmission of such a 
form of enteritis to man through milk, has been given 



100 MILK HYGIENE 

by Follenius and Gaffky.^^ It is as follows : In the lab- 
oratory of hygiene at Giessen, two assistants and a ser- 
vant became very ill after drinking raw milk which was 
proven to have come from a cow with hemorrhagic ente- 
ritis. The symptoms were headache, weakness and diar- 
rhoea. In the servant, the disease seemed to resemble 
cholera, with the others it was more like typhoid fever. 
Gaffky isolated from the fasces of the sick persons, as 
well as from the faeces of the cow, a member of the colon 
group which grew rapidly and was very virulent. The 
organism was the same in all cases. 

It is probable that a case of disease mentioned by 
Eehn,^^ was caused in a similar way. A child two and a 
quarter years old was attacked by a typhoid-like disease 
after drinking raw milk, which was rich in colon bacilli. 
He recovered in the course of five weeks. A sister some- 
what older had a lighter attack. 

As, doubtless, every case of such virulent enteritis 
of cattle offers opportunity for the infection of the milk 
with pathogenic bacteria, which apparently are virulent 
for man, every animal affected with a severe, bloody or 
febrile diarrhoea, should be removed from the stable at 
once. The contaminated part of the stable should be 
carefully cleansed and disinfected. If a number of cases 
of the disease occur, the sale of the milk of the whole 
herd must be prohibited, for a longer or shorter time. 

In this connection, observations by A. Hoist ^^ con- 
cerning cases of poisoning through ** pultost " (a kind 
of cheese) should be mentioned, since the bacillus found 
belongs to the same group, although it is not proven that 
its occurrence in the cheese was due to contamination 
with bacteria from cases of enteritis of cattle. 

1^ Ref . in the Zeitscli. flir Hygiene, III. 
i^Hygien. Rundschau, IV, No. 21. 
20 Zentralblat f iir Bact., XX, 1896. 



INFECTION BY MILK 101 

Indigestion of cows very often leads to a lessening of 
milk secretion and, at the same time, to a change in its 
taste and composition. The milk may have a bitter or 
salty taste and appear to be thinner, is sometimes yel- 
lowish in color and coagulates very easily. When such 
changes are present, or when there is simply a disturb- 
ance of digestion, the milk should not be mixed with 
other milk designed for sale. The question here is not, 
however, one of the contaminating micro-organisms, nor 
does it relate strictly to the passage of a disease from 
cattle to man. 

j, " Calf cholera." It is well known that under this 
common term are grouped infections of the intestines 
(usually caused by colon bacilli, less often by proteus 
forms) and umbilical infection, with or without local 
inflammation, (arthritis, pyaBmic processes, bacterise- 
mia) ; the latter infection is sometimes caused by colon 
forms, sometimes by staphylococci and streptococci and, 
rarely, by necrosis bacilli or other bacteria. 

An endemic outbreak of these infectious diseases 
signifies a great propagation of the causative bacteria 
in the cow stable and, therefore, it is most probable that 
the milk becomes infected while being drawn. There are 
no positive cases that prove that milk from a farm where 
calf cholera is prevalent, has caused disease of children 
or adults, but as no special attention has been given to 
this matter, it is quite natural that such cases as may 
occur are not fully understood. Milk from such a herd 
should be regarded as suspicious and its sale as ' ^ nurs- 
ery milk '' should not be allowed until conditions on the 
farm have been improved. 

k. Septic metritis. In septic inflammation of the 
uterus, which is specially prevalent in herds where cows 
in calf are purchased from dealers, great quantities of 
ichorous exudate are secreted and expelled from the 



102 MILK HYGIENE 

vagina, and this exudate contains pathogenic bacteria 
(streptococci, staphylococci, colon forms, etc.) as well 
as bacteria of putrefaction (proteus varieties among 
them). During milking, some of this pathological mate- 
rial may fall directly into the milk and the udder, tail, 
thighs and flanks are usually so dirty that contamination 
of the milk is scarcely avoidable. There are no definite 
observations of disease that has been caused in man 
through the milk of such animals, but since these organ- 
isms are known to be harmful there can be no doubt that 
the milk may be injurious to health; therefore, its use 
should not be permitted under any conditions. Since it 
is readily possible that the cows standing beside the af- 
fected animals are contaminated by the excretions from 
the uterus, sick animals should not be allowed to remain 
in the stable occupied by the milk producing herd. 

The same applies to cows which retain the afterbirth, 
but without suffering from septic metritis. The danger 
of contamination with pathogenic bacteria in this case 
is not great but the milk may be contaminated very 
easily by the entrance into it of the bacteria of putre- 
faction that are present in the purulent discharges. 
Moreover, the milk — even that of healthy animals — may 
absorb foul odors during milking, odors which are often 
very pronounced throughout the whole stable where such 
an animal is stalled ; or the odor of carbolic acid or creo- 
lin used for treating the animal may enter the milk. 
Hence, such cows should be taken to an isolated part of 
the stable where other cows cannot come in contact with 
them and their milk should, under no circumstances, be 
added to the market milk. 

I. Suppurative processes. What has been said of 
septic metritis applies, essentially, to diffuse cellulitis 
and extensive suppurating sores. When animals with 
such conditions are in the stable, there is great danger 



INFECTION BY MILK 103 

that the milk may be infected with bacteria of suppura- 
tion, among which streptococci are able to cause enteritis 
in man. With wounds and ulcerations of the teats (pox, 
gangrenous buckwheat eruption, etc.), the danger is 
present and the milk of such cows should, at least, not be 
used for nursery milk. If there are single small sores 
that no longer suppurate, the milk may be sold, pro- 
vided the teats are carefully washed before milking. 

m. Other infectious diseases. The secretory function 
of the milk glands is affected to no small degree in many 
severe infectious diseases. This is shown principally by 
the diminished quantity of milk but often, at the same 
time, by changes in its composition. In this way the 
milk may acquire an unpleasant or salty taste ; its layer 
of cream has often a dirty color and, when it is boiled, 
little lumps separate due to the increased quantity of 
albumin or globulin. It is probable that under these con- 
ditions abnormal products of metabolism and, now and 
then, pathogenic bacteria find their way into the milk; 
therefore, milk should not be used in severe cases of 
fever, as rinderpest, malignant catarrhal fever, croup, 
malignant broncho-pneumonia, pysemic and septicaemic 
processes, etc. 

n. Milk sickness. A curious disease called ^^ milk 
sickness '' is found in the central part of the United 
States ; it was formerly confused with anthrax, and has 
occurred as an epidemic among animals and man but 
seems to disappear with improved cultivation. Accord- 
ing to the reports of Dr. Kimmell the disease occurs 
among horses and ruminants, when they are pastured in 
certain places. After a period of incubation, violent 
trembling and great restlessness appear which increase 
during the succeeding days. The animal may fall and 
die suddenly but often it lies for several days in a para- 
lyzed, half dead condition. Through the ingestion of 



104 MILK HYGIENE 

meat, milk and dairy products, the disease is communi- 
cable to man. It may develop mildly with severe vomit- 
ing and difficult breathing as the prominent symptoms, 
or, on the other hand, it may end in death, preceded by 
subnormal temperature, paralysis of a great part of the 
body and progressive dyspnoea. Death approaches 
imperceptibly and without the supervention of rigor 
mortis. This mysterious disease, which was formerly 
attributed to poisonous plants eaten by the cattle with 
their food and whose toxic principles were supposed to 
be secreted in the milk, is probably, according to the pre- 
ceding, an infectious disease. 

v. CONTAMINATION WITH ORGANISMS OF 
SPECIFIC DISEASES OF MAN 

Milk may be contaminated with specific organisms 
from persons suffering with infectious diseases. Such 
contamination may take place during milking, during its 
handling on the farm or, later, while it is being handled 
or stored in the dairy or market-place. Sometimes this 
occurs from sick persons coming directly into contact 
with the milk, sometimes it occurs in an indirect way. 
The method of contamination differs in respect to dif- 
ferent diseases, since infectious material may come not 
only directly or indirectly from persons but may also 
come from the water used for cleansing the milk vessels. 

In the literature of recent years, there are numerous 
reports of very significant epidemics supposed to be due 
to infection carried by milk. Such *^ milk epidemics '^ 
are especially frequent in England and America and this 
may, no doubt, be accounted for by the fact that it is 
not so customary in England and America to boil milk 
as it is, for example, in Denmark and Germany. Most 
of the epidemics relate to typhoid fever, diphtheria and 
scarlet fever ; but cholera and several other diseases may 



CONTAMINATION WITH ORGANISMS 105 

be spread by means of milk. In some cases, no doubt, 
epidemics have wrongly been ascribed to the use of milk, 
for their origin might be explained in another way, but 
a very great number of cases remain wherein the respon- 
sibility of milk as a distributor of contagion cannot be 
doubted. 

[In most cases, the conclusion that a given outbreak 
of disease is caused by the use of infected milk does not 
rest on the evidence of the discovery of the specific 
organism in the milk, but on the manner in which the 
outbreak occurs and upon the various attendant circum- 
stances. For this there are two reasons; first, none of 
the specific germs may be present in the drop or two sub- 
jected to examination, even though they are relatively 
numerous in the whole supply, for such organisms are 
not in solution and are not evenly distributed and, sec- 
ond, infectious diseases do not occur until after a certain 
period of incubation, and when this time has elapsed the 
milk that carried the specific organisms is no longer in 
existence. But the evidence of the transfer of such dis- 
eases by milk is none the less convincing. It is as clear, 
for example, as the evidence that typhoid fever is car- 
ried by contaminated water, and this evidence is re- 
garded as sufficient to justif}^ the expenditure by cities 
of vast sums to secure pure water. 

Milk epidemics are often characterized, according to 
the observations of Swithinbank and Newman ^i by the 
following features : 

1. Special incidences of disease, as among the cus- 
tomers of a certain milkman ; in families using the great- 
est quantities of milk; among persons who drink most 
milk and, for this reason, among women and children. 

2. A relatively short period of incubation. 

21 The Bacteriology of Milk, London, 1903. 



106 



MILK HYGIENE 



3. Sudden onset and rapid decline of the outbreak. 

4. Certain clinical characteristics of the milk-borne 
disease, especially a somewhat milder form of disease 
than is customary. 

5. A lower mortality rate than when the disease is 
transmitted by other means, as shown by the following 
table : 



Disease ' 


Mortality Percentages 




Milk-Borne Outbreaks 


Not Milk-Borne 


Scarlet fever 


12.0 
11.0 
18.9 


10.2 


Typhoid fever :. 

Diphtheria 


17.4 
30.3 



The above table is made by Swithinbank and New- 
man (whose chapters on this subject should be read) 
from a study of many thousands of cases of milk-borne 
disease. It should be stated that the mortality percent- 
ages in the first column are actual, and taken from the 
records, while those of the second column are based on 
estimates from other writers. L.P.] 

a. Typhoid fever. During recent years, especially, 
there have been numerous reports from city and coun- 
try, of typhoid epidemics which have been traced to con- 
tamination of the milk by typhoid bacilli, and to the dis- 
semination of disease through such milk. At first, the 
correctness of the observations was doubted, since it 
was not possible to find the typhoid bacillus in milk, but 
recently the observations have so increased in number 
and accuracy that it is not to be denied that the principal 
means by ivhich typhoid fever is distributed in places 
where there is a safe and hygienic water supply, is 
through the milk. Although it cannot be said that 
typhoid fever is especially prevalent in Denmark, yet a 



TYPHOID FEVER 107 

number of epidemics during recent years, may be pointed 
out that can be traced with more or less certainty to 
infection through milk, or with which milk was con- 
cerned in the great spread of the contagion. Dr. Caroe 22 
has reported about 90 large and small typhoid epidemics 
which occurred outside of Copenhagen during the period 
from 1878-96 and which probably were due to infection 
from milk, also 5 milk epidemics which occurred in 
Copenhagen during the years 1879-1895. In 1900, no 
less than 3 milk epidemics occurred in Copenhagen, and 
it does not appear that these were related to each other. 
The sanitary inspector, A. Ulrik,^^ made a detailed re- 
port on these outbreaks, and since they show very char- 
acteristically the conditions that occur in milk epidem- 
ics, they are cited as examples. 

In the first epidemic, the cases were grouped about 
a city milch herd and the two sales places connected 
with it. Some cases of typhoid appeared in this quar- 
ter of the city in August, but the origin of these was not 
perfectly clear. At this time, a saleswoman in charge 
of one of the milk shops became ill of typhoid fever and 
was taken to the hospital. It was discovered that she 
had suffered with severe diarrhoea for about fourteen 
days but she had not been under the physician's care 
until high fever developed. By degrees, 35 cases in all 
broke out, among them the woman in charge of the other 
milk shop and these cases were, in part, traced directly 
to infective milk ; in part they must have originated from 
contagion carried from one person to another. It was 
found during the time that the disease prevailed that the 
milk had twice been infective — at the beginning and in 
the middle of August — but it was not possible to prove 
the exact channel through which bacilli entered. 

=^2 Tidsskrift for Sundhespleje, VI, 1898. 
s^Tiddskrift for Sundhespleje, YIII, 1901. 



108 MILK HYGIENE 

The state of health of the herd and the condition of 
cleanliness of the premises aroused no suspicion. After 
cleansing and disinfecting and after discontinuing the 
business for a short period, the epidemic ceased at once, 
although a few individual cases still occurred that were 
caused by infection that had taken place earlier. 

The milk of these same shops was infected anew 
in the middle of October, probably by a girl who was 
believed to have become infected during a stay in a place 
near Copenhagen. Shortly afterward, the two sons of 
the herdsman were infected by the milk, and later three 
other persons. By means of a temporary prohibition 
of the sale of raw milk and raw cream from the herd and 
by thorough cleansing, the epidemic was checked. 

The third epidemic was of greater extent. In the 
middle of November a number of typhoid cases were 
found in a certain section of the city and suspicion soon 
fell on a certain milk shop. The further development of 
the epidemic, during which the shopkeeper became ill, 
confirmed these suspicions, xlltogether, 71 persons were 
infected directly or indirectly through the milk, which 
must have been most contaminated from October 26th to 
November 1st, judging from the times of appearance 
of disease and the number of persons affected. Despite 
the investigation which was instituted, the ultimate ori- 
gin of the infection was not discovered. 

H. Moller has observed and described as follows an 
epidemic caused by milk from a cooperative dairy, which 
is rather characteristic : ^^ Seven farms supported a 
cooperative dairy. A case of typhoid fever occurred on 
one of the farms ; the dairy continued to receive the milk 
but did not boil the skim milk that was returned. With 
brief intermissions, 40 persons, altogether, became in- 

24Ugeskrift for Laeger, 1890, p. 128. 



TYPHOID FEVER 109 

fected with typhoid fever on the dairy farm first 
infected, on the farm upon which the creamery was sit- 
uated and on 4 other farms, only one farm remaining 
exempt. Through contagion, the disease was carried 
from these farms to 7 other families and 14 more per- 
sons became affected. 

Hart's and Freeman's collections of the milk epi- 
demics in the literature gave an idea of the importance 
of this method of transmission of typhoid fever. Hart 
collected the established milk epidemics from 1857-81 
and found accounts of 51, with 3500 cases of the disease 
and 350 deaths, while Freeman found 53 epidemics from 
1880-96. The number of milk epidemics observed since 
then is proportionately greater, no doubt because this 
means of transmission is better known and, therefore, is 
more frequently recognized than before. 

While in the case of some epidemics it is quite easy 
to prove that the infection of the milk came from a sick 
person working with the milk, in other cases everything 
points to the producing farm as the seat of infection, but 
may not reveal the ultimate origin of the contagion. In 
such cases attempts have been made to trace the infec- 
tion to a disease of the cows, but without sound basis, 
for no instance is known wherein domestic animals have 
suff-ered from any disease caused by the typhoid 
bacillus. 

From our knowledge of the epidemiology of typhoid 
fever, it may be said with assurance that milk may be 
infected with typhoid bacilli through the addition of 
water (in washing the vessels or through adulteration 
with water) or by bacteria from patients or conva- 
lescents. 

It is a well known fact that many epidemics of this 
disease have been traced to infection from impure drink- 
ing water, and it is self evident that milk, which is favor- 



no MILK HYGIENE 

able to the growth of typhoid bacilli, may be infected in 
this way. Water from open or thin walled springs or 
wells may be directly infected by the entrance of water 
which has been contaminated by the excretions of the 
sick. [All surface streams are liable to become contam- 
inated either directly or indirectly, through carelessness 
or imperfect drainage systems. 

Typhoid bacilli may be blown about in dust, car- 
ried on the boots of persons who walk over infected sur- 
faces and they may also be carried by flies, as was 
abundantly proven during the Spanish- American and 
the South African wars. Cloths used for washing milk 
cans may carry this infection. In one instance, in Phila- 
delphia, it was found that a small milk dealer was in the 
habit of washing his milk bottles in the family wash tub. 
Milk has become contaminated during cooling, either by 
a leak in the tubular cooler or by the entrance of water 
into a submerged can. L. P.] 

Concerning direct or indirect infection from sick per- 
sons or convalescents, emphasis should be laid upon the 
fact that the disease often runs so light a course that the 
diagnosis of typhoid fever is not established; further, 
that faeces, and often urine, contain bacilli in great num- 
ber and that convalescents often have bacteriurea for 
months after typhoid fever and daily excrete number- 
less bacilli with the urine. Neuf eld ^^ has collected some 
reports on this subject : of 210 typhoid patients not less 
than 45 (more than 20%) excreted bacilli with the urine, 
and Petruschky ^^ found that the number of bacilli in the 
urine exceeded 170,000,000 per c.c. It will be evident 
to every one who is familiar with existing conditions and 
customs, especially in the country, that under these 
circumstances no extreme or unusual carelessness or 

25 Deutches med. Woehenschr., 1890, p. 824. 

26 Zentralbl. f . Bakteriologie, XXIII, 1898, No. 14. 



TYPHOID FEVER 111 

accident is necessary to afford an indirect or direct 
means of carrying typhoid bacilli into the water or milk. 

The typhoid bacillus can multiply rapidly in milk 
and greatly increase in number in the course of a short 
time, it resists the commencement of acid formation but 
is partly checked and killed by great acidity; yet it is 
not certainly killed by the degree of scouring to which 
cream is subjected before churning. Bolley and Field 
have found that typhoid bacilli will live at least ten days 
in butter [and Bruck has shown that they were virulent 
after 27 days]. Hence, not only milk and cream but 
also buttermilk (epidemic in Hamburg; Frankel and 
Koster), newly made butter and fresh cheese may be 
bearers of virulent typhoid bacilli. The typhoid bacillus 
is destroyed by pasteurization at 80° C. (176° F.) and 
heating for a few minutes at 70° to 75° C. (158° to 167° 
F.) will kill it. Care must be taken to heat the whole 
volume of milk to this temperature. (See '' Pasteuri- 
zation.") 

In pure culture, the typhoid bacillus does not change 
the appearance of milk and alters its reaction but little. 
It is very difficult to detect it in milk, as it is in drinking 
water, for its colonies in gelatin are very similar to 
those of the colon bacilli. To detect it, the milk must be 
sown in the usual method in gelatin plates and then as 
great a number as possible of suspicious colonies iso- 
lated. These are then implanted in fermentation bulbs 
in bouillon, some of which contain grape sugar and some 
sugar of milk. Those forms which cause an acid reac- 
tion in the milk sugar bouillon or those which ferment 
the grape sugar with the formation of gas or which do 
not change the reaction of the grape sugar bouillon are 
to be rejected. Only those cultures which give a strong 
acid reaction without producing gas in the grape sugar 
bouillon, are really suspicious and these must be sub- 



112 MILK HYGIENE 

jected to a far more searching examination before tliey 
can be identified as typhoid bacilli.^' It is unnecessary to 
pursue this subject further, since the demonstration of 
the typhoid bacillus in market milk is not, as yet, a prac- 
ticable procedure in milk inspection. 

Jensen's investigations have shown that there are 
several kinds of typhoid bacilli, distinguished from each 
other by a somewhat different fermentative power. It 
appears to be possible that by means of cultures from 
different patients one may determine what cases of 
typhoid belong to one and the same epidemic. 

b. Diphtheria. Diphtheria not infrequently appears 
to be spread by milk from milk shops or by that deliv- 
ered from cooperative dairies, but less frequently than 
typhoid fever. 

N. Flindt ^^ has given a detailed account of such an 
epidemic in the neighborhood of Holbeak in which the 
disease was being spread for a long time by milk from 
a cooperative dairy. He states : The epidemic occurred 
in June, 1889, and soon became violent. Fifty-one per- 
sons were sick at the end of the month, 16 cases occurred 
the following month and in August and September 6 
more ; 3 patients died. Everything tended to prove that 
milk delivered from the cooperative dairy had contained 
the contagion and this belief was strengthened by the 
fact that two persons from the dairy were affected. The 
exact mode of entrance of the infectious material into 
the milk was not traced. The case is remarkable in that 
the milk appears to have been contaminated for quite a 
long period. 

-' C. 0. Jensen : On Yanskelighedeme ved Typliusbaeillens Diag- 
nose og om Racer af Typhusbaeillen. (On the Difficulties of Diag- 
nosing Typhoid bacilli and on the Races of Typhoid bacilli) 
Hospitalstidende, 1901, p. 1193. 

-8 Ugeskrift for Laeger, 1890, p. 405. 



L 



DIPHTHERIA 113 

A large epidemic of diphtheria ^^ which broke out 
among the inhabitants of the villages along the coast 
north of Copenhagen, in 1881, offered conditions of prop- 
agation which strongly signified that milk was the means 
of spreading the contagion. 

In 1893 a small epidemic was noted in Lund, Sweden, 
when eight persons in different families were sick with 
diphtheria. These cases were traced to the use of milk 
from a farm near Lund which was infected with diph- 
theria.'^^ 

Quite an extended epidemic occurred in 1886 in Frim- 
ley, England; in the course of a few days 70 cases of 
diphtheria occurred, distributed in more than 30 fam- 
ilies, 15 cases being fatal. All the sick had received milk 
from the same dairy. Not one case of diphtheria oc- 
curred during this time among those using milk from 
other dairies.*^ ^ 

[The medical literature of recent years contains 
many reports of milk-borne outbreaks of diphtheria, a 
number of which are gathered and summarized by 
Swithinbank and Newman.^^ The following case, cited 
in their summary, is instructive. At Ashtabula, Ohio, 
100 persons became affected with diphtheria in Decem- 
ber, 1894. The houses in which the disease occurred 
were widely separated but milk was taken at ail of them 
from the same dairyman. On the farm of this dairyman, 
a workman had a very sore throat, probably diphthe- 
ritic. This person had assisted in the work of the dairy 
while suffering acutely from sore throat. Of 44 house- 
holds investigated, it was found that 32 had received 

29 Ugeskrif t for haeger, 1881. 

30 Hospitalstidende, 1893. 
■•1 Ref . in Milchzeitung, 1886, p. 835. 
^- Bacteriology of Milk. 

8 



114 MILK HYGIENE 

milk directly from this sick person; tlie other 12 had 
received milk from the same dairy but it had been deliv- 
ered by another man. In this outbreak there were 24 
deaths. L.P.] A great many other reported cases 
might be quoted. 

As yet the diphtheria bacillus has rarely been iso- 
lated from market milk but, notwithstanding this, there 
can be no doubt of its occurrence in milk and that it may 
thus cause epidemics like those mentioned above. The 
bacillus must come directly or indirectly from the oral 
cavity of people who are or have been recently attacked 
by diphtheria. Just as the typhoid bacillus is main- 
tained in many cases in the urine of convalescents, it is 
also very common for diphtheria bacilli to retain life for 
months, even for a whole year, in the oral cavity and 
on the mucous membrane of the nose in persons who 
have been affected, but who have entirely recovered from 
the disease. It is on this account that it was possible in 
only a few epidemics of milk-borne diphtheria to dis- 
cover the original source of infection and it is difficult, 
not to say impossible, to wholly guard against the occa- 
sional infection of milk by diphtheria bacilli. Fortun- 
ately, these bacilli are frequently of low virulence. 

The opinion, that was held formerly by some, that 
diphtheria in man could come from a disease of milch 
cows, is entirely erroneous. 

It has been stated that diphtheria bacilli grow readily 
in raw milk and that they thrive less well in boiled milk 
(Schottelius) ; but from the experiments made by Meyer, 
it appears that diphtheria bacilli act as other bacilli ; that 
is, that they are checked by the germicidal power of 
fresh raw milk and grow best in boiled milk. 

Diphtheria bacilli withstand acidity and may there- 
fore be present in the different dairy products, but the 
infectivity of the latter has not yet been determined. 



SCARLET FEVER 115 

It is certainly very difficult to prove the presence of 
diphtheria bacilli in market milk because even if the 
milk has been the cause of the epidemic, they are pres- 
ent in only very small quantity and, usually, but for a 
limited time. If one wishes to experiment in this direc- 
tion the best method of proceeding is to make a culture 
on blood serum (Loffler's) in a manner similar to that 
employed in the examination of the throat of a diph- 
theritic patient. If the culture tubes are brought to 
body heat for 24 hours, the conditions will be more 
favorable for the increase of the diphtheria bacilli 
than for the greater number of milk bacteria. One 
must then make a careful study of the colonies that have 
developed. 

c. Scarlet fever. Reports of scarlet fever epidemics 
that are presumably to be attributed to the spread of 
infection through the milk, come chiefly from England 
and America. The infectious material must come from 
affected persons and may enter the milk directly through 
their contact with it when it is being drawn, in the sales- 
places, etc., or it may reach the milk in an indirect way. 
Since the organism of this disease is unknown, it is diffi- 
cult to form a well founded opinion concerning these 
possibilities, and one cannot ascertain whether there is 
an increase of the infectious material in milk. 

About 18 years ago some scarlet fever epidemics 
aroused great attention in England because it was 
thought that, without doubt, they could be traced to an 
infection through milk and to a peculiar new eruptive 
disease upon the teats and udders of cows. From the 
evidence that is now available, one is justified in regard- 
ing it as established that the outbreaks of scarlet fever 
referred to had no relation to the disease of cows, 
which was in reality only a somewhat unusual form of 
cow pox. 



116 MILK HYGIENE 

Malet ^^ cites an example of a milk epidemic wherein 
from August 21st to the 2d of September, 18 persons be- 
longing to 11 households were attacked with scarlet 
fever after drinking milk from a farm where there was 
a scarlet fever patient. 

[The cases next following are selected from among 
those cited by Swithinbank and Newman."-^ 

Buffalo, New York (reported by Wende). ^' Two 
outbreaks of scarlet fever occurring in 1899 in Buffalo 
were traced to an infected milk supply. The first out- 
break was that of 57 children, the second was less severe 
and numbered only 20 cases. The channel of infection 
was well traced out in the former, and it was found that 
on the implicated dairy premises there were two cases 
of desquamating scarlet fever. One was a child, aged 9, 
the other a young man aged 19 who did the milking and 
in other ways assisted in the dairy during his illness. 
The 57 cases were almost simultaneous in occurrence, 
and the severity of the attack appeared to depend upon 
the quantity of the implicated milk consumed. ' ' 

London, 1901. The total number of cases was 293, all 
resulting from one polluted milk source. " The out- 
break occurred on the delivery course of a certain con- 
tractor in London. He obtained milk from 38 farms. 
On one of these farms there were four cases of scarlet 
fever, the farmer, his wife, son and daughter. The cows 
were healthy. '' The cases were widely scattered in Lon- 
don but were all directly traceable to milk from the im- 
plicated farm. " The large number of adults attacked 
differentiated this outbreak from those of ordinary type. 
After the regular distribution had been stopped the con- 

^^ Reference in Reeueil de med. vetr,, 1895. 

^* Bacteriology of Milk. For original references to eases cited, 
see this work. 



I 



ASIATIC CHOLERA 117 

tractor then sent his milk to other consumers, who then 
contracted scarlet fever.'' 

Beverly and Salem, Massachusetts, 1901. The num- 
ber of cases was 60, all resulting from one polluted 
source. ^^ The dairyman in this outbreak produced 5 
cans of milk daily and obtained 14 other cans from 3 
neighbors. On one of these 3 farms, 3 children had been 
ill ; a girl of 16 had sore throat, another girl of 12 and a 
boy of 14 followed a few days later with a similar affec- 
tion, namely, swelling of the glands in 'the neck, and gen- 
eral malaise. One of them had a slight rash. After the 
recovery from acute condition they assisted in handling 
the milk. The outbreak was very sudden, and promptly 
declined from a time dating a few days after the milk 
supply from the farm was stopped. The fatality was 
high, as many as 11 deaths occurring. The distribution 
of the cases of scarlet fever was localized to the distri- 
bution of the milk in question." L. P.] 

d, Asiatic cholera. From what we now know of the 
epidemiology of cholera it cannot be doubted that the 
spread of the germs of cholera is due chiefly to drinking 
water ; nevertheless the possibility of its spread through 
milk and other foods cannot be left out of consideration. 
Examples of transmission through milk are certainly 
not numerous ; one of the best established is the follow- 
ing reported by Simpson : On board a ship in the harbor 
of Calcutta, 10 persons fell victims to cholera after 
drinking milk sold by a native. Four patients died, 5 
others were seriously ill, and one who drank but little 
of the milk was slightly affected. It was learned that 
the milk had been diluted with water from a tank into 
which the excrement of a cholera patient had been 
thrown a few days before. Among those who did not 
drink the milk there was no illness. 

Simpson was able also to trace a small cholera epi- 



118 MILK HYGIENE 

demic in a prison in Calcutta, with considerable cer- 
tainty, to the distribution of the cholera bacilli through 
the milk, and it was probable that the milk was already 
infected before delivery. Gaffky also reported an epi- 
demic caused by infection through milk. 

In quite fresh milk, cholera bacilli appear to succumb 
readily to its bactericidal action, but they increase 
rapidly in older milk but are again checked and, at last, 
killed, as the acidity increases. 

e. Tuberculosis. Tubercle bacilli may enter milk not 
only from tuberculous cows and infected stables but also, 
without doubt, from tuberculous people. Of course 
there is no definite illustration — for obvious reasons — of 
transmission of tuberculosis in this way ; but if one con- 
siders what a quantity of tubercle bacilli may be ex- 
creted daily by a consumptive, the possibility of such 
transmission can scarcely be disputed, although the dan- 
ger is considerably lessened by the fact that the number 
of tubercle bacilli will not increase while the milk is kept. 
It is justifiable, therefore, to forbid tuberculous people 
working with market milk. 

/. Other diseases. It is stated in text books that there 
are instances of the transmission of syphilis, and there 
are reports in English journals of epidemics of sore 
throat and of erysipelas which are said to have come 
from infection through milk. In these latter cases, how- 
ever, it is doubtful if the infectious material came di- 
rectly from sick people, for the microbes concerned 
(chiefly streptococci) may gain access to milk from other 
sources. 

[As illustrations of such outbreaks of sore throat, 
the three following cases are taken from among those 
summarized by Swithinbank and Newman.^ ^ 

^^ Bacteriology of Milk. 



SEPTIC SORE THROAT 119 

In Anglesey, in 1897, 15 people who took milk of one 
dairy, became affected at about the same time with sore 
throat. Several persons in the affected families who 
consumed milk from the same source but in a boiled state 
escaped the sore throat, the chief evidence of which was 
tonsilitis. The bacteriological examination of the milk 
revealed the presence of Streptococcus pyogenes and 
Staphylococcus pyogenes, but no Bacterium diphtJierice. 
Bacteriological examination of the patients' throats 
yielded precisely similar results. 

'' In May, 1902, an outbreak occurred in Lincoln, 
affecting a large number of persons. Dr. Brook had 
seventy-five cases in his own practice. The chief symp- 
toms were erythema of the face, and sore throat. In 
many cases a drab colored fur covered the tonsils. A 
roseolous, papular eruption, in some cases appearing to 
be urticarial, occurred in two-thirds of the cases. There 
was no marked fever, except in cases having complica- 
tions. The pulse rate was not increased, and no albu- 
minuria occurred. The onset was sudden, and in no 
case out of the seventy-five investigated by Dr. Brook 
was infection communicated to others by contact. 
Nearly all of the patients were adults, and well advanced 
in years. The complication most commonly met with 
was swelling and tenderness of the cervical glands. 
With one doubtful exception, all the patients had had 
milk from the same dairy. Boiling the milk appeared to 
prevent persons from taking the complaint. The poison 
seemed to be present particularly in the cream. The 
differences between the disease and scarlet fever were 
very marked. 

' ^ A sudden outbreak of a severe form of ^ septic sore 
throat ' occurred at Bedford at the end of June, 1902. 
On 27th June, the first case occurred; on 29th June, 4 
cases occurred; 30th June, 15 cases occurred; 1st 



120 MILK HYGIENE 

July, 13 cases ; 2nd July, 3 cases ; 3rd July, 2 cases ; and 
4th July to 8th July, 4 cases — making a total of 42 cases 
in 22 families. The symptoms included redness, swell- 
ing of the throat, fauces, palate, and uvula, with numer- 
ous spots, patches of exudation, and in some cases 
ulcers. The general symptoms consisted of severe head- 
aches, giddiness, backache, and pains in the limbs, very 
much like an attack of influenza. The temperature was 
about 102° to 103° F., but in a few cases was higher. In 
some cases there was gastric and intestinal disturbance. 
Great weakness was also present. In every case the 
milk supply was obtained from the same dairy. On 
Sunday, 30th June, many persons consumed cream with 
fruit, and these included nearly all the worst cases. In 
some families children who drank boiled milk escaped, 
whilst parents who consumed unboiled milk or cream 
were attacked. One man took cream in the form of ice- 
cream, and had a severe attack. ' ' 

It must, however, be regarded as possible that these 
cases of sore throat were caused not by contamination 
of the milk from a human source but to the presence of 
organisms of suppuration eliminated by cows with dis- 
eased udders. L. P.] 

The transmission of measles, small-pox, pest, dysen- 
tery, or cerebro-spinal meningitis by milk has not been 
observed, but the possibility of such transmission can 
scarcely be doubted. 

VI. CONTAMINATION WITH OTHER BACTERIA 

Milk becomes infected with bacteria during the act of 
milking. These contaminating organisms come partly 
from the teat canal, partly from dirt, hairs, and dandruff 
on the skin of the cow, partly from the hands and cloth- 
ing of the milkers, partly* from the dust of the stable. 
Still more are added when the milk is collected and 



CONTAMINATION WITH BACTERIA 121 

stored in unsterilized vessels or when it is exposed to 
the air. It is evident that the number of bacteria found 
in freshly drawn milk varies greatly according to the 
conditions of cleanliness of the stable and the cows, and 
as to the cleanliness and carefulness observed during 
milking. 

Freshly drawn milk possesses a certain bactericidal 
action which, however, does not seem to affect all forms 
of bacteria. The number of living bacteria in milk may 
be lessened appreciably in the course of a few hours as 
a result of this activity, but the action does not last and, 
under appropriate temperature conditions, bacteria 
soon begin to increase and their number, at times, be- 
comes enormous. The rapidity with which the bacteria 
increase after milking is dependent entirely upon the 
temperature at which the milk is kept. 

If the milk is cooled immediately after being drawn 
and is kept at a temperature not higher than 10° C. 
(50° F.) there is no material increase of bacteria during 
the first 24 to 36 hours; even at 14° to 15° C. (57.2° to 
59° F.) the increase is relatively slight. But as the 
temperature rises, the number of bacteria increases 
rapidly and bacteria are very numerous in milk that 
has stood at 20° to 25° C. (68° to 77° F.) for 12 hours. 

In order to illustrate the importance of cleanliness 
in the stable and during milking, the following figures 
determined by Grotenfeld may be of use. In one c.c. of 
milk from cows particularly well cared for, he found 106 
bacteria, while the freshly drawn milk of cows in a dirty 
stable contained 617,000 bacteria per c.c. Therefore, one 
cannot generalize as to the number of bacteria in freshly 
drawn milk, but milk from well-cared-for and carefully 
milked cows will, as a rule, contain hardly more than 
1000 to 6000 bacteria per c.c. The following results show 
the potent effect of cold in checking the increase of bac- 



122 



MILK HYGIENE 



teria. The milk used contained about 9300 bacteria in 
one c.c. and was kept at 15°, 25°, and 35° C. : 





AT150C, (590F.) 


At 250 c. (77° F.) 


AT 350 c. (95° F.) 


Beginning of the test. 


9,300 


9,300 


9,300 


After 3 hours 


10,000 


18,000 


30,000 


After 6 hours 


25,000 


172,000 


12,000,000 


After 9 hours 


46,000 


1,000,000 


35,280,000 


After 24 hours 


5,700,000 


50,000,000 


577,500,000 



At the low temperature, it is seen that the increase 
is at first very slight. Moore found that the number of 
bacteria in milk kept at 21° C. (70° F.) did not increase 
during the first 6 to 9 hours but then increased rapidly ; 
he also found that in the course of from 36 to 48 hours, 
no appreciable increase in the number took place, if 
the temperature did not rise above 12° to 13° C. (53.6° 
to 55.4° F.) and that a still lower temperature, as 4° to 
5° C. (39.2° to 41° F.), could prevent the increase of 
bacteria for a longer period. Meyer found, through 
experiments carried on in Jensen's laboratory, that 
cooling the milk to 10° to 12° C. (50° to 53.6° F.) checks 
the growth of bacteria for a long time. 

It is evident, from all of this, that the quick and per- 
manent cooling of the milk to 10° to 12° C. (50° to 53.6° 
F.) is most important in preserving it. 

Of course the number of bacteria in market milk 
varies greatly according to its age and care and to the 
temperature of the air. Experience gained in most of 
the larger cities shows the bacterial content of market 
milk to be seldom below 50,000 to 100,000 per c.c. but it is 
often greater, varying between 1,000,000 to 30,000,000; 
indeed, not infrequently, even from 100,000,000 to 150,- 
000,000 have been found. And such milk may not be 
noticeablv tainted. 



SPONTANEOUS CHANGES IN MILK 123 

If the question be asked : What is the sanitary signifi- 
cance of the existence of this mass of bacteria! we must 
consider the changes which bacteria in pure culture may 
cause in milk, and which were mentioned above, for it 
is evident that these same changes occur, although often 
very much less clearly marked, in market milk rich in 
bacteria. When milk is kept a long time it may become 
altered in one of several ways, of which the following 
are the most common : 

1. The well known coagulation (curdling), following 
the formation of acid, is the most frequent. 

2. Less often, a more or less disagreeable (putrid) 
odor and taste occur without much acid formation and 
without coagulation. 

3. Still less frequently, the milk becomes slimy or 
^' stringy,'' either without souring, or accompanying 
the process of souring. 

Sour milk. It is known that sour milk has no harmful 
effect on healthy people. But it is different with those 
suffering with catarrh of the stomach, and with small 
children. In these cases a degree of acidity not be- 
trayed by coagulation or appreciable sour taste appar- 
ently may cause vomiting and indigestion, possibly be- 
cause the numerous lactic acid bacteria rapidly increase 
with the warming of the milk in the stomach, and cause 
coagulation before the gastric juice can check their 
growth. Milk in which the lactic acid fermentation is so 
far advanced that it will not stand boiling, or the taste 
of which is slightly sour, must therefore be regarded as 
unfit for food for small children. The number of bac- 
teria in milk does not give us a safe criterion for judging 
it in this connection, but the degree of acidity furnishes 
a reliable guide. (See below.) 

Putrid milk. Even though the taste is not yet decid- 
edly foul, but is only bitter (formation of peptone) 



124 MILK HYGIENE 

nausea and vomiting may be caused, even in adnlts, and 
there are many instances of the poisoning of large num- 
bers of people by such milk. This alteration is most fre- 
quently observed in summer when the milk is not prop- 
erly cooled, and occurs especially in milk that has been 
warmed or even boiled for a short time [pasteurized], 
without sufficient cooling afterward. 

Slimy milk. According to information at hand, the 
slimy change seems to have no harmful effect, although 
it may make the milk most unappetizing. In Sweden, 
however, this change is produced and " langmjolk " is 
prepared for food, as sour milk (curds and whey) is 
prepared in other countries. Milk that is inclined to the 
slimy change should not, at any rate, be fed to small 
children. 

Some bacteria that occur in milk but which, on ac- 
count of their properties or small number, do not have 
any noticeable effect upon the appearance or changes 
of the milk, may still be harmful. These are sporulat- 
ing forms, as the hay bacilli or members of the group of 
butyric acid bacilli, which may break up the casein with 
the formation of albumoses, peptones and amid- and am- 
monia compounds. Sometimes there are bacteria which 
generate special poisons that go into solution in the milk 
or that remain attached to the bacteria cells. Little is 
known of these forms, although the opinion has been 
frequently expressed that these very bacteria play an 
important part in the etiology of diarrhoea in children. 
Finally, there may be bacteria which are pathogenic for 
animals and for man and that are capable of causing 
inflammation. Such bacteria are very common in mar- 
ket milk. In the examination of 56 samples of market 
milk in Berlin, Beck found streptococci in 34, which 
caused fatal enteritis when fed to rabbits and guinea 
pigs. In injecting milk in the abdominal cavity of rab- 



SPONTANEOUS CHANGES IN MILK 125 

bits (in order to test it for tubercle bacilli) Friis discov- 
ered that 15 of the 28 samples contained bacteria which 
caused either peritonitis or abscesses or pyaemia. 
Guinea pigs were generally useless for his experiments 
because they all died of peritonitis. Similar results have 
been obtained by many others. 

The forms of bacteria considered in this connection 
are chiefly streptococci, staphylococci and members of 
the colon group, some of which are generally present, 
although, perhaps, in quite small amounts, in market 
milk; besides these, there are still many other kinds, 
some of them occurring regularly, in small numbers, and 
some are only met with now and then. Where do these 
bacteria come from? Primarily from the dirt that gets 
into the milk when it is drawn, — it is a well-known fact 
that the excrement contains numerous, and sometimes 
pathogenic, bacteria. They may also come from cases 
of mastitis and metritis in the stable; moreover these 
forms of bacteria are widespread and probably they 
very often occur in cow stables, as is shown by the fre- 
quent occurrence of calf cholera. * * Calf cholera " is a 
common name for a group of fatal diseases of new-born 
calves among which the most usual forms are navel 
infection (most frequently caused by streptococci, colon 
bacilli and pseudo-colon bacilli) and diarrhoea or dysen- 
tery of calves (in most cases caused by colon bacilli). 

It does not follow that all milk containing strepto- 
cocci or the other bacteria referred to above is harmful 
or dangerous. But if these are present in large num- 
bers, they make the milk suspicious and there are many 
evidences that such milk has been most injurious. It is 
highly probable that a very great part of the gastro- 
enteritis, so harmful to small children, is traceable di- 
rectly to these bacteria. The fact that the mortality 
among small children in general has decreased to a great 



126 MILK HYGIENE 

extent where the milk is bacteriologically clean or has 
been sterilized according to Soxhlet's method, is one 
of the arguments in favor of this view. Heubner is of 
the opinion that infani* mortality has been diminished in 
this way to the extent of 27 per cent. 

In order to prevent too great contamination by such 
bacteria — it is difficult to wholly exclude them — there is 
no other way than strictly to guard the health of the 
herds, as well as the cleanliness of the stable [of the 
utensils and receptacles] and of the attendants. The 
eventual danger may be partly removed by pasteurizing 
or boiling the milk. 

VII. ADMIXTURE OF DIRT 

As has already been stated, it is customary for milk 
to become more or less contaminated with particles of 
dirt and their adherent bacteria during milking. The 
dirt consists, principally, of bits of manure and, besides 
this, hairs, dandruff, particles of food, earth and dust. 

Usually, after milking each cow, the milk is passed 
through a strainer which retains particles of dirt ; but if 
the strainer is not cleaned very frequently, the particles 
of dung and dirt are softened in the milk, bacteria are 
washed through and substances that carry abnormal 
odors and tastes are set free in the milk. By straining, 
then, one accomplishes only the removal of the larger 
and more solid particles of dirt that are quite harmless 
in themselves, such as hairs, cellulose, sand, etc. 

When unclean milk is permitted to stand, a distinct 
sediment is formed and its presence signifies lack of 
cleanliness in respect to production. 

The importance of dirt contamination is due chiefly 
to the addition of bacteria with the dirt and to the solu- 
tion of faecal matter ; the visible dirt is important only 
as it makes the milk unappetizing. It follows that a 



ADMIXTURE OF DIRT 127 

greater or less dirt content has a grea^t influence upon 
tlie healtlifulness and keeping quality of the milk; this 
is emphasized by a study of the bacterial content of cow 
dung. Wiithrich and Freudenreich found this to vary 
according to the kind of feed ; the bacteria in the dung 
of cows fed with hay appeared to be most numerous; 
1 gramme of such excrement contained 375,000,000 
bacteria. 

Of course the quantity of dirt in market milk differs 
very greatly. An investigation in Hamburg showed that 
the quantity varied from 0.0 to 183.5 milligrams per 
liter ; on the average, there were 13.5 milligrams of dry 
dirt in a liter of milk. In other experiments, Schmelk in 
Christiania found an average of 11 milligrams in a liter, 
von Hellens (Helsingfors) found only 1.79; in Berlin, 
Renk showed the average to be 10.3; in Halle, 14.92; 
in Leipsig, 3.8 and in Munich, 9.0. The maximum quan- 
tity in each case was much greater than the averages 
mentioned, although it never reached the maximum for 
Hamburg milk. 

In Dresden the standard regarding market milk 
states that it must not contain more than 8 milligrams of 
dirt per liter. 

In Denmark there are no general regulations con- 
cerning the dirt content of milk ; ^^ there, too, it varies 
considerably, it is great in the milk from distillery fed 
herds and less in milk delivered by the large companies. 

^^' In 1895, the Copenhagen health commission had 39 samples of 
milk tested for dirt, which was found in small quantity, varying be- 
tween 1 and 13 milligrams per liter. 



PART IV. 



PASTEURIZATION AND STERILIZATION 



In the household, milk is boiled to make it keep 
longer and this process serves also to kill any pathogenic 
bacteria that may be present. Little by little, the public 
has learned that milk often contains disease producing 
germs and that small children are especially exposed to 
their harmful effects, so the custom has become more or 
less general of sterilizing milk intended for infants. 
Quite naturally, the idea developed to sterilize market 
milk, by heating before it was offered for sale. By 
this means, the following desired results have been ob- 
tained: the milk keeps for a longer time, it loses its 
capacity for infection, and the annoying process of ster- 
ilization in the home is avoided. In most large cities 
there are one or more companies engaged in the sale of 
sterilized or pasteurized milk. 

The difference between pasteurization and steriliza- 
tion consists, essentially, in the greater degree of heat 
applied during the latter process. 

I. PASTEURIZATION 

By pasteurizing a fluid is generally understood heat- 
ing it to a certain temperature which is sufficient to in- 
crease its keeping qualities. It is sometimes used to 
indicate heating to 50° to 60° C. (122° to 140° F.) and 
sometimes to the use of a higher temperature. In ref- 
erence to milk and dairy products, the term '^ pasteur- 
ization " is used in a more definite sense. In butter- 

128 



PASTEURIZATION 129 

making pasteurization is understood to mean a brief 
heating of the cream and whole milk to 80° to 85° C. 
(176° to 185° F.), the purpose of which is to kill most 
of the existing bacteria, in order to prevent those fer- 
mentations of the cream which might cause the butter to 
be of inferior quality. At the same time, pathogenic 
micro-organisms (particularly tubercle bacilli) are made 
harmless. In some places, ^ ^ pasteurized butter ' ' is made 
solely for the latter purpose. 

In Denmark, on account of the danger of spreading 
tuberculosis among animals, it is provided by law that 
skim milk and buttermilk delivered from creameries to 
be used as food for animals must have been heated to 85° 
C. (185° F.). In this connection, however, the law does 
not mention pasteurization but, in practice, pasteurized 
separator milk (or buttermilk) is understood to be milk 
that has been subjected approximately to the above men- 
tioned temperature and that does not react to Storch^s 
or to the guaiac tests. 

Since market milk is pasteurized especially in order 
to render harmless any disease producing germs that 
may possibly be present, and since the majority of con- 
sumers are, doubtless, of the opinion that pasteurized 
milk may be used with perfect safety without further 
heating, it should be strictly required that market milk 
sold as '^ pasteurized " shall have been subjected to a 
sufficient degree of heat to kill with certainty all of the 
pathogenic micro-organisms that are present. 

The pathogenic bacteria that are of importance in 
this connection are the germs of tuberculosis, typhoid 
fever, diphtheria, cholera and pest and pyogenic cocci 
and the virus of foot-and-mouth disease. These have 
been shown by recent investigations to be killed by mo- 
mentary heating to 70° to 80° C. (158° to 176° F.) and 
they die at a temperature of 65° C. (150° F.), if this 
9 



130 MILK HYGIENE 

degree of heat is maintained long enough. This is also 
true of many bacteria occurring in milk which may be 
injurious, yet which cause no specific disease. There- 
fore, milk may be pasteurized either by a brief heating 
at a higher temperature or a longer heating at a lower 
temperature. But the spores of bacteria and the thermo- 
philic forms that are specially capable of resisting heat, 
are not destroyed by these methods, so pasteurization 
does not have the same effect as sterilization. Milk may 
be pasteurized in different ways. The following three 
methods are those most commonly used : 

2. The milk is heated during one-quarter to one hour 
at from 80° to 85° (176° to 185° F.) while it is flowing 
through an appropriate pasteurizing apparatus ; then it 
is cooled immediately. 

2. The milk is heated from one quarter to one hour 
at about 65° C. (150° F.) in a tank or vat. The milk 
flows directly from this vessel into the one in which it 
is to be sold, or it is first passed through a cooler. 

3. The milk is poured into well cleansed or sterilized 
bottles or metal vessels, is then heated for a consid- 
erable time at 65° to 80° C. (150° to 176° F.), then the 
bottles or vessels are sealed and quickly cooled. . 

For sanitary reasons the last of these methods is 
unquestionably to be preferred, but it has not been 
adopted extensively on account of its cost. Heating 
many small vessels requires a great amount of heat and 
causes great loss in bottles, if such are used. The initial 
cost, also, and the amount of labor required are con- 
siderable. 

If one of the first two methods is employed, the pas- 
teurized milk must be drawn into vessels (bottles or 
metal cans) which have previously been properly 
sterilized. 

Pasteurizing milk and then placing it in unsterilized 



PASTEURIZATION 131 

vessels has no effect. Indeed, if bottles are used, this is 
to be forbidden as injurious to health. Very often the 
milk is drunk directly from the bottle, which may be 
infected by this means and, in spite of washing, fresh 
milk may be infected as it is poured out. In this connec- 
tion, what is to be understood by sterilization! The aim 
is, so far as possible, to kill all microbes. The task is 
not difficult with metal vessels because, after thorough 
mechanical cleansing, these can be subjected to very hot 
steam or can be scalded. With glass bottles, the task is 
more difficult, because strong heat causes much break- 
age, and if the price of the milk is not such as to cover 
this loss, another method must be used. Thorough me- 
chanical cleansing, scouring the outside as well as the 
inside, followed by long soaking, in a strong, warm solu- 
tion of washing soda at 70° C. (158° F.) and rinsing in 
pure, lukewarm water, is believed to kill with reasonable 
certainty all pathogenic forms and also the majority of 
other milk bacteria. 

A very large number of machines for the quick pas- 
teurization of milk have been built, chiefly for use in 
creameries. The principle of these machines is dif- 
ferent. One of the first pasteurizers was that made by 
Fjord; it consists, as the diagrams (Figs. 5 and 6, pp. 
132 and 133) show, of a tinned copper tank provided with 
an insulated steam jacket. The tank contains rotating 
arms by which the milk is thrown against the heated 
walls. The milk is admitted at the bottom through pipe 
H and leaves the apparatus at the top. 

By regulating the quantity of milk admitted, the 
rapidity of the revolving arms and the amount of steam, 
the milk may be heated as desired. Many other pasteur- 
izing machines are built according to the same principle. 

In other pasteurizers, the milk is heated while it 
flows in thin layers over heated metal surfaces, or while 



132 



MILK HYGIENE 



forced between two surfaces lying close to each other, 
or while it is being passed through a system of heated 
pipes. In some pasteurizers hot water serves as the 
source of heat for the metal surfaces or pipes, while 
steam is used in others. 



Fig. 




Fjord's pasteurizing apparatus. 



Since one can hardly be sure that every particle of 
the whole volume of milk is heated to a given tempera- 
ture by this method of pasteurization, it should be re- 
quired that the temperature of the milk, when it leaves 
the apparatus, shall be at least 80° C. (176° F.). If this 



PASTEURIZATION 



133 



is not done, it cannot be regarded as certain that the 
milk has been freed from pathogenic micro-organisms. 
Moreover, a pasteurizer which is to prepare milk for 
use as food must fulfil the following requirements : 

1. The entire quantity of milk, including the froth 
formed during heating, must he heated equally to the 
desired temperature. 



Fig. 6. 




Fjord's pasteurizing apparatus. 

2. The apparatus must tvorJc reliably, in order that 
there shall be no danger that at times the milk is not 
sufficiently heated. 

3. The machine must he easy to clean. 



134 



MILK HYGIENE 



All pasteurizing apparatus must be under the con- 
stant inspection of a reliable man, or must be provided 
with a self regulator. A regulator which shuts off the 
milk automatically if the temperature of the contents 
of the machine falls below the given standard, was de- 
vised by Henriques and Stribolt. Up to the present 
time, this principle is not widely applied, but doubtless 
it deserves to be introduced into the better plants which 
prepare and sell pasteurized milk. Fig. 6 shows a 
Fjord pasteurizer with a self regulator; the latter con- 
sists of a metal thermometer (see Fig. 7) whose free 
arm (w) is attached to a horizontal rod {r y) which may 
move a valve placed in the entrance pipe to the pasteur- 
izer. 

Fig. 7. 




Automatic temperature-regulator, as devised by Henriques and Stribolt. 



The construction is shown by Fig. 7. As the temperature of the 
milk in the machine rises, the two arms of the thennometer approach 
each other and the valve m d c m thus pressed back by the horizontal 
rod r u, which presses against m so that the opening at & A: is free 



PASTEURIZATION 



135 



and the milk can pass from o to p. If the temperature falls, the 
pressure of the horizontal rod is withdrawn from the valve, which is 
then caused to close the opening by means of a spring, s, so that the 
milk cannot flow to the pasteurizer; thereupon the discharge of milk 
immediately ceases, and not until the milk has been sufficiently 
heated will the valve open again, so that fresh milk may enter and 
expel that already heated from the apparatus. 



Fig. 8. 




Schmidt's milk-cooler; a, entrance for cold water; h, exit for cold water. 



From the pasteurizer, the milk must be passed over 
or through a cooler in order to lower the temperature as 
much as possible, for otherwise it would soon spoil. 

From the cooler, the milk should be drawn directly 
into the container from which it is to be sold. Fig. 8 
represents a cooler which consists of a spirally fluted 



136 MILK HYGIENE 

metal tank, through which cold water or, better, ice 
water is passed and over the surface of which milk 
slowly flows. 

For pasteurizing milk in bottles or in cans an appa- 
ratus of different construction is used. Some consist 
simply of a water bath; a large shallow metal tank is 
partly filled with water and the bottles are so placed in 
this that they are submerged as close as possible to the 
neck, then the tank is closed by a cover and the water is 
heated with steam. 

Other pasteurizers are built according to the follow- 
ing principle: there is a perforated drawer in a large 
metal tank upon which the filled bottles are placed close 
together (Fig. 9) ; after the tank has been tightly closed 
by means of a cover or door, steam is admitted until the 
desired temperature is reached. Of course these ma- 
chines are also adapted to sterilizing at a higher tem- 
perature (100° to 110^^ C, 212= to 230° F.). After 
from one-half to one hour's heating, the bottles are 
allowed to cool a little before the tank is opened, then 
they are immediately sealed. In some machines, all of 
the bottles are sealed before the tank is opened, by 
means of a specially arranged mechanism. The further 
cooling of the bottles is attended with certain difficulties, 
as they crack easily. This may be accomplished by 
passing the bottles through several tanks of water of 
progressively lower temperature, or by slowly lowering 
the temperature of the water surrounding them. 

While the fact of the previous heating of milk to not 
less than 80° C. (176° F.) may be established with cer- 
tainty by the Storch or guaiac tests, it is not possible to 
determine whether or not the milk has been subjected to 
a less degree of heat ; moreover, since a brief heating at 
80° C. (176° F.) is cheaper and far more convenient than 
a longer heating at, for instance, 65° C. (150° F.), there 



PASTEURIZATION 



137 



is much to be said in favor of the establishment of a fixed 
rule that all milk designated as pasteurized shall be 
heated to at least 80° C. (176° F.), that is, a temperature 
that can be determined by the Storch or guaiac test. But 
there is another side to the question. In the medical 

Fig. 9. 




Flaack's apparatus for sterilizing bottled milk. 



world the sentiment against pasteurizing at high tem- 
peratures has been growing during recent years, for it 
has been claimed that this causes a change in the pro- 
teids which makes them less digestible. In many places, 
therefore, the longer heating at a lower temperature, has 



138 MILK HYGIENE 

been adopted. All milk from Bolles' great establish- 
ment in Berlin, is handled in this way. 

Under these conditions, such a requirement as that 
mentioned above could scarcely be maintained but, with- 
out doubt, regulations with regard to the sale of pas- 
teurized milk should be laid down, and the following 
appear to be appropriate : 

1. Milk sold as "' pasteurized '' without a more ex- 
plicit statement must have been heated to at least 80° C. 
(176° F.). 

2. Milk that has been pasteurized by heating at a 
lower temperature, shall be sold as *' pasteurized '' only 
if it is marked ivith a label giving the degree of heat ap- 
plied, and not until after the health authorities are con- 
vinced that the establishment in question is prepared to 
pasteurize in an approved and effective ivay. 

The advantages derived from pasteurizing market 
milk, from a hygienic standpoint, are as follows : 

1. The specific pathogenic bacteria are destroyed. 

2. Most of the other bacteria are likewise killed and, 
therefore, the milk keeps better. 

3. Pasteurization necessitates a better method of de- 
livering milk than that commonly employed in many 
places. 

By means of pasteurization, as has been said, the 
pathogenic bacteria and the larger part of the other 
bacteria are killed. Since the bacterial content of ordi- 
nary milk is most variable, and since the forms are by 
no means always alike, the number of bacteria that live 
through pasteurization — even after heating to the same 
temperature — is not even approximately the same. In 
other words, the average bacterial content of milk that 
has been pasteurized a short time cannot be stated. 
There are usually only very few bacteria per c.c. in pas- 
teurized milk that was freshly drawn and handled in a 



PASTEURIZATION 139 

cleanly way; while under other conditions hundreds, 
even thousands of bacteria are to be found in every c.c. 
of pasteurized milk. Lactic acid forming bacteria in 
milk are killed by pasteurizing, while certain harmless 
bacteria, majiy bacteria of putrefaction and spore form- 
ing bacilli survive ; for this reason pasteurized milk sel- 
dom sours but gradually putrefies. 

No absolute conclusions can be drawn concerning the 
effectiveness of pasteurization from the bacterial con- 
tent of pasteurized milk sold in the retail market, for 
one does not know the nature of the milk before pas- 
teurization, the length of time the milk has been kept 
since pasteurization or the temperature at which it has 
been kept, and these factors are largely responsible for 
an abundance of bacteria. 

The objections to pasteurization are: 

1. Even by the use of a self-regulating pasteurizer, it 
is difficult to provide absolute guarantee that all milk 
has been heated to the required temperature. 

2. Pasteurization incurs expense, therefore the milk 
costs more. 

3. To a certain degree, pasteurization may conceal a 
tainted condition which exists before heating. Quite an 
abundance of bacteria of putrefaction and other bacteria 
may be present, or the lactic acid fermentation may have 
begun to take place; these bacteria are killed by pas- 
teurization, consequently the fermentations and changes 
that were under way are interrupted. Under such cir- 
cumstances, one cannot tell by the appearance or taste 
of milk that it is damaged and that it contains the 
products of decomposition of the albumen, or, possibly, 
even toxic substances. On the whole, there is no way, 
at the present time, of determining whether or not pas- 
teurized milk was damaged before it was heated, while, 
with respect to raw milk, the keeping quality and bac- 



140 



MILK HYGIENE 



terial content furnish sufficient evidence regarding its 
true condition. 

4. The bacteria surviving pasteurization are, for the 
most part, the quick growing bacteria of putrefaction 
which are inhibited in raw milk by the lactic acid bac- 
teria, but in pasteurized milk they multiply very fast and 
undoubtedly they are capable of generating poisonous 
substances. It has been suggested, therefore, that a 
pure culture of lactic acid bacteria be added to milk 
after pasteurization in order to check the bacteria of 
putrefaction. 

5. In purchasing pasteurized milk, one cannot tell if 





Number of Samples 








Ordinary whole milk 


Pasteuriz'd whole milk 


0-10 


_ 


2 


10-50 


- 


- 


100-500 


- 


2 


500-1,000 


- 


4 


1,000-5,000 


- 


1 


5,000-10,000 


- 


10 


10,000-20,000 


- 


6 


20,000-50,000 


- 


12 


50,000-100,000 


- 


7 


100,000-1,000,000 


7 


66 


1,000,000-5,000,000 


1 


20 


5,000,000-10,000,000 


- 


9 


Above 10,000,000 


1 


3 


Total number of samples. . . 


9 


142 



it be fresh or old and cannot determine, from its appear- 
ance, if putrefaction has begun or if only a few bacteria 
are present. That this objection to the sale of pasteur- 
ized milk is valid, is shown by the Copenhagen health 



PASTEURIZATION 



141 



Commission, in its report, especially that for 1899, on 
the number of bacteria in pasteurized milk, as compared 
with the number in unpasteurized milk. 

It is evident that these figures do not seem to favor 
pasteurized milk, and the situation is still less favorable 
if one considers that the bacteria in raw whole milk are 
chiefly lactic acid bacteria, while in pasteurized milk 
the greater part consist of bacteria of putrefaction. The 
figures above cited for the year 1899 are especially high, 
but the summary given below is made from examina- 
tions of pasteurized milk extending through a period of 
several years : ^" 



Number of Colonies in 

1 CO. 


1896 


1897 


1898 


1899 


1900 


Below 100,000 
100,000-1,000,000 
Above 1,000,000 


22 

1 


26 
5 

1 


12 
19 
17 


44 
6(i 
82 

142 


40 
39 
26 


Total number of samples 


23 


32 


48 


105 



This increase in the number of strongly infected sam- 
ples occurs coincidently with the equipment of many 
milk establishments for the production of ^' pasteur- 
ized '' milk and apparently without such careful direc- 
tion as to make it certain that the whole quantity of 
milk was really heated to the required temperature ; that 
this was the case is indicated by the result of investiga- 
tions of the health commission in the year 1899, which 
show that of 36 samples of pasteurized cream 2, and of 
389 samples of pasteurized milk 23 could not stand the 



^' Stadslaegens Aarsberetninger (Annual Report of the City Phy- 
sician ) . Copenhagen. 



142 MILK HYGIENE 

Storcli test, which showed that they had not been heated 
to 80° C. (176° F.). 

When we compare the advantages and disadvantages 
it will be found that there is serious doubt as to whether 
it is advisable to endeavor to obtain general pasteuriza- 
tion of market milk, as has been suggested by many. A 
well organized and well conducted large milk business 
may be in position to carry out pasteurization with 
safety and to obtain all the various advantages that 
result from this process but, undoubtedly, it would be 
necessary for the great majority of establishments to 
be kept under comprehensive, strict and expensive con- 
trol by the health authorities which, even then, could 
scarcely be eif ective. 

II. STERILIZATION 

By sterilization of milk is understood a long contin- 
ued boiling, or heating to a temperature above the boil- 
ing point as 105° to 110° C. (220° to 230° F.). The 
superiority that is claimed for sterilization over pasteur- 
ization is that all of the bacteria are killed and the milk, 
consequently, will keep for an unlimited time. But 
nearly all the examinations of ^^ sterilized milk" bought 
in the market, that have been made, up to the present 
time, have shown that the milk is not sterile but con- 
tains the spores of bacteria. On the whole, sterilization 
otfers no special advantage over pasteurization, on ac- 
count of the unpleasant taste of sterilized milk, due to 
changes in the albumen and lactose, and on account of 
the greater expense connected with it. Sterilization has 
the advantage only when it is a question of keeping the 
milk a long time or transporting it a long distance, and 
in this case the principle followed is essentially the 
same as that followed in the preparation of Dreserves in 



STERILIZATION 



143 



hermetically sealed cans. Considerable advance has 
been made in recent years in regard to the preparation 
of such preserved, canned, milk, in that the boiled and 



Fig. 10. 




Kleemaiin's high-pressure pasteurizer and regenerative heater, a, water of condensation 

b, to the cooler. 

burnt taste has been prevented by pumping the air out 
of the milk before heating it and by the exclusion of 
oxygen during heating, so that a high temperature is 
possible and a safer sterilization is accomplished without 
seriously affecting the taste. Another difficulty which 
it has been necessary to contend with, the separation of 
cream, and of butter formation during storage, seems 
by degrees to have been overcome. 

For the purpose of sterlizing milk, instead of the 
usual apparatus built according to the Fjord system, 
tightly closed machines are used, so that the tempera- 
ture of the milk can be raised above the boiling point, 
and through these the milk is forced by means of a small 



144 



MILK HYGIENE 



pump. There is a large number of such machines. In 
Germany they are commonly used for simple pasteuriza- 
tion. Of the machines most used in recent years, the 



Fig. 11. 




Section, to show construction of apparatus shown in Fig. 10. a, entrance for milk; 6, 
exit for milk ; c, steam-chamber ; d, steam-opening ; c, safety-valve. 



so-called ' ' regenerative heater " is to be commended be- 
cause it saves much steam. It is built according to the 
principle that the hot milk flows past the entering cold 



STERILIZATION 



145 



milk (only a thin metal plate separating them) so that 
both streams of milk have opposite directions ; by this 
means, there is the advantage that the hot milk, even be- 
fore it leaves the sterilizer, is somewhat cooled without 
expense, while the cold milk gains quite a little heat be- 
fore it is heated by the action of the steam. In this way. 



Fig. 12. 




Mor's regenerative milk-heater. 



steam, as well as ice, is saved. Machines built in accord- 
ance with this principle differ much in appearance. 
Some, for example the apparatus shown in Fig. 10, which 
is one of the newest, consists really of two parts, the ster- 
ilizer proper (the ^^ high pressure pasteurizer ") and an 
apparatus quite similar (^^ the regenerative heater '') 

10 



146 MILK HYGIENE 

in which the stream of warm milk works upon the incom- 
ing cold milk. Both parts have the same construction, 
which is easily seen from Figs. 10 and 11. Other ma- 
chines of this kind (for example, Mor's regenerative milk 
heater, Fig. 12), are simpler in that both processes take 
place in the same machine. For sterilizing milk meas- 
ured into bottles, machines which are described and 
figured on pages 136 and 137 (Fig. 9) are used. 



PART V. 



THE USE OF MILK FOR INFANTS 



The advantages of milk as a general food for man 
are so well known that no further discussion is neces- 
sary; but the special use of milk for infants, as a sub- 
stitute for mother's milk, offers certain points of inter- 
est which merit further consideration. It is logical first 
to review the behavior of milk and the changes that 
occur in it during digestion. 

Under the influence of the gastric juice, the proteids 
undergo a process of splitting up in the stomach. The 
albumin and globulin are first changed into syn- 
tonin and then separated into albumoses and, probably, 
peptone. Casein behaves somewhat differently. It is 
transformed by the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice 
into an acid calcium salt and then, under the influence of 
rennin, it undergoes a change, during which whey albu- 
min is formed, into calcic paracasein, which separates as 
a curd. The calcic paracasein is then split by pepsin into 
albumin and paranuclein (pseudoneuclein) which is pre- 
cipitated but which is afterwards dissolved by the pro- 
longed action of the gastric juice, being broken up into 
an albumin-like material and phosphoric acid. The albu- 
mins that are formed by splitting of the casein are later 
changed into albumoses (caseoses) and peptone. Ac- 
cording to recent investigations it appears that these 
substances may undergo still other changes before they 
are absorbed. Through the action of rennin, an albu- 
min-like substance (plastein) is formed and through the 

147 



148 MILK HYGIENE 

action of an intestinal ferment (erepsin) the splitting 
of peptone is continued into di- and mon-amido acids. 
Little is known as to the resorption and use of these 
substances. 

There is a difference of opinion regarding the fate 
of the milk sugar; some think it is absorbed from the 
intestines unchanged, but others are convinced that it is 
first inverted into dextrose and galactose. The absorp- 
tion takes place more slowly than is the case with glu- 
cose, maltose and cane sugar. 

The absorption of milk-fat takes place as that of 
other fats, with a preceding saponification. 

It is well known that cow's milk is being used more 
and more as food for infants and for small children. As 
a substitute for mother's milk, there are some objections 
to it, however, and if used for nursing babes, it must 
receive especial treatment. This is on account of the 
fact that it differs materially in chemical composition 
from human milk and that it constantly contains micro- 
organisms, and, sometimes, even pathogenic forms. 

The differences in composition of human milk and 
cow's milk are shown by the averages given below: 

Water. Casein. Albumin. Fats, Lactose. Salts. 

Woman's milk... 87.92 0.58 0.52 3.43 7.12 0.2 

Cow's milk 87.75 3.00 0.50 3.40 4.60 .5075 

[Human milk appears to vary more in composition 
than cow's milk. This may be due in part to the greater 
difficulty in obtaining a fair sample than is the case with 
cow's milk. It is known, for example, that the compo- 
sition of the fore milk and the strippings differ consid- 
erably, and if small samples of milk are drawn from a 
cow's udder at irregular times during the day, before 
and after regular milkings, the samples will be of very 
different composition. Besides this, the less regular life 



MILK FOR INFANTS 149 

of the woman and the nervous influences to which she is 
subject may tend to make her milk more variable than 
that of the even-going cow. 

The figures, however, that are given in the above 
table show less proteids than were found by most of 
the leading authorities. The average composition of 
woman's milk, as determined by a large number of 
analyses, is given by Richmond as follows : 

Water, Proteids. Fat. Lactose. Ash. 
Woman's milk 88.2 1.5 3.3 8.8 02. 

Johansson, however, found but 1.1 per cent, of pro- 
teids, as an average for 25 samples, thus agreeing, in 
this respect, with the figures given on page 148 which 
are from Gottlieb. L. P.] 

The first thing to be considered is that the quantity 
of total proteids in cow's milk is more than three times 
[or more than twice] the quantity in human milk, so 
that a child nourished with cow's milk has apparently a 
considerably greater nitrogen assimilation than a child 
nourished in the natural way. It is not known with cer- 
tainty what significance this has for the health of the 
child, but it is not safe, off hand, to conclude that the 
highly nitrogenous diet is advantageous. Moreover, the 
chief part of the protein of cow's milk consists of a 
casein, which, in contrast with the casein of human milk 
(the proteids of human milk do not give a curd with ren- 
net), is precipitated in the stomach as large curds and in 
a form that apparently makes it less digestible. 

Great importance has been attributed by some to the 
fact that human milk often contains more fat than cow's 
milk and, it is affirmed, on this account the nutritive 
value of human milk is greater than cow's milk. But 
since we know that the fat content of human milk is sub- 
ject to great variation (for individual peculiarities see 
page 24) no particular importance can be attributed, in 



150 MILK HYGIENE 

general, to this difference. On the other hand, the fact 
must be considered that the fats in the two kinds of milk 
differ somewhat chemically, and that cow's milk contains 
much more volatile fat (butyric acid) than human milk. 
These other important conditions should be mentioned: 
the decided different proportions of lactose which, 
doubtless, is of value in the nourishment of the child, and 
the small quantity of lecithin in cow's milk, to which 
great importance is now ascribed in metabolism. It is 
doubtful if the greater quantity of citric acid and of 
inorganic salts in cow's milk has an unfavorable influ- 
ence on the nourishment of the child. 

Many attempts have been made to correct the defects 
of cow's milk and to make it a more appropriate food 
for infants. 

By diluting cow's milk with water, the percentage 
of salt is proportionately decreased so that the casein 
coagulates in the stomach in flakes, just as the casein of 
human milk, and at the same time there is a proportion- 
ate diminution in the percentage of the total proteids. 
But there is also a decrease in the quantity of albumin 
as well as of the other ingredients of great nutri- 
tive importance — lecithin, lactose and fat — which is 
decidedly disadvantageous. In order to remedy this, 
the milk is often diluted with barley- or oat-water or the 
proper quantity of milk- or grape-sugar is added. 
Others have used cream diluted with water; by this 
means an appropriate quantity of protein and fat can 
be had, and since fat may be substituted for lactose, the 
deficiency of the latter makes little difference. 

To make cow's milk approach human milk more 
closely, and to make it more easy of digestion many 
methods of ^preparation, some of them rather complex, 
have been proposed, and some have been used commer- 
cially. The following are examples of such preparations : 



MILK FOR INFANTS 151 

^^ Gartner's fat milk " is prepared in the following 
way: cow's milk is diluted with water to such an extent 
that the casein content corresponds to human milk, then 
it is so centrifuged that the milk flowing from the cream 
tube has a fat content which agrees with that of human 
milk. The milk is put into bottles and sterilized. The 
composition of the '' fat milk " may, of course, be 
changed at will ; the average composition of such a prep- 
aration made in Germany is : fat, 3.7 per cent. ; proteids, 
1.5 per cent. ; lactose, 2.2 per cent. 

'' Voltmer's mother's milk " is the name given to a 
milk preparation that is sometimes marketed in the form 
of ^^ milk," and sometimes is condensed and sold in 
cans. The preparation is somewhat complicated; fresh 
centrifuged cow's milk is heated to 100° C. (212° F.) 
and distilled water, cream and sugar are added to it in 
such quantity that the content of proteids, fat and sugar 
correspond to human milk ; the mixture is now exposed 
to the action of pancreas ferment which process changes 
the casein into albumoses. The preparation is sterilized 
at 102° to 105° C. (215.6° to 221° F.) or evaporated 
and poured into cans which are sterilized after solder- 
ing. According to several analyses, the composition of 
the commercial product is, approximately: fat, 2.3 per 
cent.; proteids, 1.8 per cent, (about three-fourths of 
this is albumose) ; sugar, 6.2 per cent.; and salt, 0.4 
per cent. 

^'Backhaus's infants' milk'' is similarly prepared. 
The cream is separated by the centrifuge ; the skimmed 
milk is heated to 40° C. (104° F.) and rennet and trypsin 
are added. In the course of half an hour the precipi- 
tated cheesy mass is filtered out ; by this means a part 
of the casein can be taken out, while the rest is trans- 
formed into easily digestible albumoses. The action of 
the ferments is stopped by heating, and cream and sugar 



152 MILK HYGIENE 

of milk are now added. The preparation, which is mar- 
keted in a sterilized condition, has been widely recog- 
nized. Its composition may easily be varied. For small 
children a preparation of about the following composi- 
tion is made : fat, 3.1 per cent. ; casein, 0.6 per cent. ; 
albumin, 1.0 per cent. ; lactose, 6 per cent. ; ash, 0.4 per 
cent. 

Gottlieb has proposed that sweet whey, cream, sugar 
of milk and lime water may be mixed together in such 
proportions that the composition of the mixture will 
closely resemble human milk. 

["' Modified milk ^' as developed and prepared by 
the Walker-Gordon Laboratory Company, with the 
scientific aid of Dr. T. M. Roach, has been in use in the 
larger cities of America and in London for a number 
of years; it was first prepared and sold in Boston in 
1891. Such milk is dispensed upon physicians' prescrip- 
tions, and is prepared by mixing whole milk, cream, 
whey, skim milk, lactose and water or other substances, 
if ordered, as lime water, starch, barley-water, etc., in the 
proportions required to give accurately the desired per- 
centages of protein, fat, sugar, etc. It is dispensed in 
round bottles ('^ tubes ") each of which contains suffi- 
cient milk for a single feeding. The bottles are plugged 
with cotton-wool. The milk is produced on farms be- 
longing to or under the control of the company and most 
exacting precautions are taken to protect it from con- 
tamination. 

The milk is served raw, pasteurized or sterilized, as 
ordered. Usually it is pasteurized and if the proteids 
consist chiefly of those present in whey, the tempera- 
ture reached during pasteurization is not permitted to 
exceed 155° F. By means of modified milk the nutritive 
requirements of the individual child can be supplied. 
L. P.] 



MILK FOR INFANTS 153 

Many special preparations similar to the above have 
been used abroad and have received the approval of 
pediatrists. In Denmark, however, they are used but 
little and they will never have a very broad field on ac- 
count of their high price. 

In France, asses' milk is quite commonly used as a 
substitute for human milk and in Dresden an establish- 
ment has been started for the production of asses ' milk, 
which is desired partly because of its great similarity to 
human milk and partly because of its favorable effect 
in indigestion of children. On account of the small milk 
yield of the donkey, this milk is much too expensive to be 
used generally. For the same reason, mare's milk has 
been used in some places, but only to a limited extent. 

Goat's milk has been suggested as food for infants, 
and large herds of goats have been maintained in some 
places for this purpose — principally on account of fear 
of tuberculous infection from cow's milk. The prevalent 
opinion of the infrequency of tuberculosis in goats is 
untenable, since they are very easily infected and may 
suffer, just as cows do, with udder tuberculosis. There- 
fore, there is no reason to prefer goat's milk to cow's 
milk. 

In by far the majority of cases in which the mother 
has not enough milk, or her child will not nurse, cow's 
milk is used as a substitute. The question has often been 
discussed as to whether and, if so, what special require- 
ments should be made for milk intended for infants, and 
different answers are given. It was formerly thought 
that the composition of the cow's food had a marked 
influence on the chemical composition of her milk, and 
upon its character, and on account of this opinion it was 
formerly required in Germany that cows kept for this 
purpose must be fed nothing but dry food the entire 
year. The price of such milk has been considerably in- 



154 MILK HYGIENE 

creased on this account. In Denmark also, similar, 
though less strict, requirements were made for the pro- 
duction of milk for infants. During recent years, how- 
ever, views concerning the effect of the forage on the 
quality of the milk have changed materially, and it has 
been observed by many that babies have been fed with- 
out discoverable detriment on milk from cows fed with 
green fodder, turnips, oil cakes, etc., and, indeed, in some 
instances, with brewery grains. There does not appear 
to be adequate ground for the requirement that cows 
kept to produce nursery milk should be restricted to this 
one sided diet. On the other hand, there is need for an 
active control of the sanitary conditions of the produc- 
ing herd, for the public must be assured that milk sold 
at a high price especially for the use of infants may be 
fed to them without danger of a grave infection of some 
kind. The nature of the requirements which, in our 
judgment, should be made concerning the production, 
handling and sale of '^ nursery milk '' are considered 
later. 

The mortality among children during the first year 
of life is very significant. In Norway and Sweden, from 
1891 to 1895, on the average, 10 per cent, died each year ; 
in Denmark, 14 per cent.; in Finland and Switzerland, 
15 per cent. ; in Prussia, 20.5 per cent. ; in Baden, 22 per 
cent. ; in Wiirtemberg, 25 per cent. ; in Bavaria, 27 per 
cent. ; and in Saxony, 28 per cent., while the mortality in 
Austria and Hungary is 25 to 28 per cent. The mor- 
tality is greatest in large cites, somewhat less in small 
cities and least in the country. 

Different cities show different death rates; for ex- 
ample, from 1886 to 1895, on an average, each year 13 
per cent, of the children less than one year old died in 
Lyons, 15 per cent, in Christiania, 16 per cent, in Paris 
and London, and the death rate in Berlin reached 25.3 



MILK FOR INFANTS 155 

per cent., in Budapest 28 per cent., in Munich 31.4 per 
cent, and in Ingolstadt even 40.9 per cent.^'^ 

In Copenliagen, the mortality, during the first year 
of life, has decreased significantly; 1877 to 1886, 20.83 
])er cent, died each year; in the next decade 19.04 per 
cent., during 1897 to 1899, 17.87 per cent., while only 
15.55 per cent, died in 1900. Infant mortality is also 
on the decrease in the provincial cities, and this is 
certainly true of many large cities abroad. 

A comparison of normally fed children with chil- 
dren fed on raw or prepared cow's milk, shows a far 
greater death rate among the latter. If the cases of dis- 
eases and death are arranged according to the separate 
months, it is noticed that in most cities there is a marked 
increase of deaths in July and August and a propor- 
tionate decrease in September, and this increased mor- 
tality pertains almost exclusively to children fed arti- 
ficially. 

By far the greater part of the fatal diseases are af- 
fections of the stomach and the intestines as catarrh, 
colics and cholera infantum. Although the causal con- 
ditions are not fully explained, it may be stated that 
cow's milk appears to induce a predisposition to intes- 
tinal infections, on account of its varying and hetero- 
geneous composition. The diseases are to be attributed 
to the action of microbes ; possibly in some cases to bac- 
teria that have formed toxic substances during their 
development in the milk, but in the greater number of 
cases it is, doubtless, a question of the presence of patho- 
genic microbes in milk (streptococci, proteus- and colon 
forms). Therefore, milk intended for infants should be 
sterilized. Opinions differ as to whether heating with 
steam for an hour (Soxhlet's method) is to be preferred 

"•^ These figures are taken from Olilens' Die Milch und ihre Beden- 
tung, 1903. 



156 MILK HYGIENE 

to brief boiling or to pasteurization, since it is thought 
that long cooking affects the digestibility of the casein. 

Through the zealous efforts of physicians, it has been 
pos&ible, during recent years, to cause the general ac- 
ceptance of the practice of sterilizing milk for infants 
and the reports show that this has had a favorable influ- 
ence in preventing disease and death. 

There are, however, some children tvith whom cooked 
coiv's milk does not agree, as it causes continual indiges- 
tion and loss of weight so that, indeed, when six months 
old they may weigh less than at birth (infantile atro- 
phy). This condition is often improved at once if a wet 
nurse is procured for the child or if asses' milk is used; or 
a change to raw cow's milk may lead to quick recovery. 
An explanation of these different eft'ects of cooked or 
raw cow's milk cannot be given here, since there is no 
convincing reason for the opinion that cooked milk is 
harder to digest than raw. Possibly the favorable effect 
of raw milk can be attributed to the presence of sub- 
stances antitoxic to some of the poisons absorbed from 
the intestinal canal, which antitoxins are destroyed by 
heating the milk. [In America, the balance of opinion 
among podiatrists appears to be in favor of clean, raw 
milk, specially produced, of low bacterial content and 
from a reliable source ('^ certified milk ") ; or milk that 
has been pasteurized at a moderate temperature (155° 
to 185° F.) and that has not been boiled. L. P.] 



PART VI. 



PUBLIC CONTROL OF THE PRODUCTION 
AND HANDLING OF MILK 



Naturally there are great differences in different 
countries in the way cities are supplied with milk and in 
the manner in which it is handled after it reaches the 
cities. In general, it may be said that there is no diffi- 
culty in supplying small towns, as herds are sometimes 
to be found within their limits and usually enough milk 
is brought in from the immediately outlying districts. 
It is different with the larger cities and, with respect to 
them, the milk business has been greatly changed dur- 
ing the last 20 to 30 years. The conditions in Copenha- 
gen may serve as an example, as they do not differ mate- 
rially from those found in other large European cities. 
Copenhagen was once supplied with milk chiefly from 
the brewery herds and other herds within the city, and 
by farmers from the adjoining country, who delivered 
milk to their own regular customers in the city ; now the 
conditions are wholly changed. 

The continual growth of the city and the constantly 
increasing hygienic demands have caused the almost 
complete discontinuance of cattle keeping within the 
city, and proximity to the large city has greatly affected 
the character of the farming nearby, so that the breed- 
ing of cattle and dairying have fallen off. On the other 
hand, on account of easy transportation by railroad, 
farmers living at quite a distance can deliver their milk 
to advantage in Copenhagen, and at this time the city is 

157 



158 MILK HYGIENE 

supplied with milk not only from the island upon which 
it is situated but also from the surrounding islands. 
This facility of transportation by railroad and boat has 
led to the establishment of milk depots that receive the 
milk from the farms, handle it appropriately and deliver 
it to their customers, selling it either from established 
sales places, or from wagons. 

This evolution in the handling of milk, which has 
occurred in most of the large cities of other countries as 
well, marks an important advance in hygienic methods. 
The milch herds in the cities and the retail shops con- 
nected with them were very often the source of grave 
epidemics ; the uncontrolled sale of milk by small farm- 
ers has had the same unfortunate result, and there is 
danger, too, in the small shops, as the limited space makes 
it difficult to prevent the various members of the family 
from coming into too close contact with the milk contain- 
ers and with the milk itself. 

Large companies are better able to bear the expense 
resulting from the observance of hygienic requirements, 
and the sanitary control of these may be much more 
easily effected than in the case of numerous small con- 
cerns. It is to be observed also that many of the large 
milk establishments have voluntarily adopted standards 
for the production and handling of milk that are in ad- 
vance of requirements of the health authorities. There 
are no proven cases of milk epidemics traced to infec- 
tion through milk from ivell conducted large concerns; 
no doubt the mixing of a large quantity of milk lessens 
the danger of infection, since usually a certain amount 
of infectious material is necessary to produce infec- 
tion. On the other hand, however, the mixing together 
of a great quantity of milk, under unfaiwrahle condi- 
tions, may be particularly dangerous because if a milk 
epidemic were caused it would be very widely spread. 



HANDLING OF MILK 159 

A strictly enforced control is, therefore, no less neces- 
sary for large establishments than for small. 

The first large milk company established in Co- 
penhagen was the Copenhagen Milk Supply Company 
which, more than 25 years ago, at a time when milk 
hygiene was still on a low plane in Denmark, as it was 
abroad, established, voluntarily, a comprehensive stand- 
ard covering the condition of health, the cleanliness and 
the feeding of the herd, the health of the milkers and 
other employees and the proper handling of the milk. 
This company rapidly developed a very important busi- 
ness and has been imitated in Denmark and in other 
countries. Several new companies have made even 
greater advances in the adoption and enforcement of 
hygienic requirements. Moreover, the large, well organ- 
ized milk companies have had a very great influence in 
forcing the small concerns to handle their milk with 
much greater cleanliness and care. 

The most familiar ways of retailing milk in cities, 
are : the milk is drawn and sold in established shops or 
it is drawn or dipped from tanks carried on wagons, or, 
thirdly, the milk is first bottled, or is placed in cans that 
are closed and sealed. The last method is decidedly the 
best and it is now rapidly displacing the other methods. 
When milk is measured out on the street, it may easily 
be contaminated by dust and dirt blown about by the 
wind, and as the delivery buckets are carried from one 
kitchen to another, there is a possibility that they may 
carry contagion. This method of delivery is also at- 
tended by the possibility of defective measuring, etc., 
by the deliveryman. 

The hygienic requirements that should be established 
with relation to the milk supplies of cities, will doubtless 
lead to a further change in the milk business as this is 
apparently going more and more into the hands of a 



160 MILK HYGIENE 

few large companies while the number of small con- 
cerns is steadily decreasing. 

[In America this tendency toward centralization of 
the business is very marked in most large cities, and 
especially in New York and Boston. The reason, how- 
ever, is economic and is similar to the causes for con- 
solidation in other lines of trade. L. P.] 

Since milk, as has been said, can acquire harmful 
properties in different ways, since its composition may 
vary considerably, and since it may be adulterated in 
many ways, the milk business must be supervised by 
public authority, under appropriate laws or ordinances. 
Formerly, in most large cities, the occasional examina- 
tions had reference only to the fat content of the milk 
(transparency test, determination of the specific gravity, 
etc.), and in many places, even at the present time, no 
further progress has been made. But our present 
knowledge makes it obvious that such an examination, 
in comparison with the standard that should be estab- 
lished to guard against dangerous milk, has relatively 
little importance. The public control, therefore, is not 
to be limited to an examination for adulteration and 
souring or ^ ' spoiling ' ' of milk on the market, but must 
extend to the production and the care and treatment of 
the milk (including the condition of health of those per- 
sons who come into direct or' indirect contact with it). 
The enforcement of complete regulations for this pur- 
pose, of course, is accompanied with great difficulties, 
and there is no city in the world whose measures in this 
respect can be said to be ideal. A point to be avoided in 
such a control is a great increase in expense which would 
raise the price of milk. This would be a hardship for the 
public, the importance of which from the economic and 
hygienic view points, must not be underrated. In the 
inauguration of a thorough-going supervision it may 



HANDLING OF MILK 161 

be necessary to interfere considerably with the methods 
of producing and handling milk as these have gradually 
developed. Local conditions will have an important in- 
fluence on the establishment of a system of control and 
will determine the rapidity with which the various re- 
quirements can be fulfilled. 

General laws governing the production and handling 
of milk, are lacking in most countries. Only a few coun- 
tries (i.e., Portugal in 1900) have enacted such laws and 
there is not much evidence as to the practical success of 
these requirements for a whole country. In a large num- 
ber of the cities of Europe somewhat detailed regula- 
tions have been adopted in regard to the milk trade ; but 
these regulations, even in the same country, differ very 
much. Dresden may be mentioned as an example of a 
large city with excellent modern regulations for the 
handling of milk. (Published July 31st, 1900, with 
amendments of February 26th, 1901.) In order to estab- 
lish a uniform system in Prussia, the Prussian govern- 
ment in 1899 published a circular of information to mu- 
nicipalities with detailed instructions for a judicious 
regulation and supervision of the milk trade. In many 
of the small cities there is either no control at all or a 
very defective one. 

[The following table from a report by H. E. Alvord 
and R. A. Pearson on the milk supply of 200 cities and 
towns in the United States shows the subjects of most 
frequent legislation in connection with market milk in 
126 cities, the milk ordinances and regulations of which 
were examined with especial care. The most popular 
subjects for legislation are readily seen. 



11 



162 



MILK HYGIENE 



Subjects, 



Dairies : 
License or permit required 
Special authority for in- 
spections 

Pure water supply 

Drainage of barnyards . . . 
Stables : 
Proximity to other build- 
ings 

Light 

Ventilation 

Floor space 

Air space 

Cleanliness 

Removal of manure 

Drainage 

Other than dairy animals 

to be excluded 

Sanitary milk room 

Employees : 

Personal cleanliness 

Contagious disease (to be 

reported) 

If exposed to contagious 

disease 

Cows : 
Provisions for examina- 
tion 

Diseased cows 

Unwholesome food for- 
bidden 

Pure water supply 

Cleaning cows 

Milk rejected at calving 
time 



Number 
of cities 



12 

58 

8 

12 



6 
15 
32 
15 
10 
47 
25 
17 

4 
14 

20 
15 
25 



58 
24 

77 
40 
27 

33 



Subjects 



Care of milk : 

Milk vessels to be nonab- 
sorbent 

Milk vessels to be thor- 
oughly cleaned 

Milk to be promptly re- 
moved from the stable . . 

Straining 

Cooling and aerating 

Conditions of storage 

Sale of milk : 

Licenses, or permits 

Licenses to be publicly 
displayed 

Source of supply to be 



General inspection in cities 

Signs on wagons 

Unsanitary milk prohib- 
ited 

Confiscation of impure 
milk 

Definite standard for com- 
position 

Skimmed milk prohibited 

Skimmed milk permitted 
conditionally 

Bottling at farm 

Storage of milk for sale . . . 

Milk tickets to be used but 



once 

Milk wagons to be covered 
Milk wagons not to carry 



Sellers to register custom- 
ers 



Number 
of cities 



55 

32 

11 

9 

15 

23 

92 

24 

14 
75 
79 

109 

30 

67 
12 

61 

8 

23 

16 
12 

5 

7 



L. P.] 



HANDLING OF MILK 163 

While the establishment of milk control on the part 
of the public leaves much to be desired, private initia- 
tive, as mentioned before, has led to significant sanitary 
improvement, in that large stock companies have been 
formed in many cities to provide sanitary milk and have 
voluntarily subjected themselves to extra expense for 
guaranteeing and controlling it. In some respects, this 
voluntary control far surpasses what the public could 
impose at this time. Appendix I gives the require- 
ments of the youngest company in Copenhagen (^^ Tri- 
folium ''), which shows how far a private company may 
carry this sanitary control, and these regulations may 
well serve as a model for other places. 

While the companies referred to established their 
own requirements and determined the extent of the con- 
trol to which they submitted, another very successful 
plan has been inaugurated in Stockholm, which consisted 
in the establishment, in 1885, by private initiative, of a 
milk commission of 9 members, including 4 physicians, 1 
veterinarian and 1 chemist. The members of this com- 
mission are chosen in part by the Board of Health and 
in part by the Medical Society. This commission has 
outlined a comprehensive control, which includes all who 
desire it and who are ready to bear the expense con- 
nected with it. The business advantages of this control 
are such that a higher price than usual is obtained for 
the milk produced under it. 

Since the legal requirements in the different cities 
vary and are adapted to the local conditions, it is 
not possible to give a concise, epitomized view of 
existing regulations ; ^^ the following, however, is an 

3^ For a review of the local milk inspection laws of the United 
States and recommendations, see " The Milk Supply of Two Hundred 
Cities and Towns," by H. E. Alvord and R. A. Pearson. U. S. Dept. 
of Agr., B. A. I. Bulletin No. 46, Washington, 1903. 



164 MILK HYGIENE 

attempt to define the requirements which, from a sani- 
tary standpoint, are to be considered necessary or 
desirable. 

In order to be effective, the legal or police require- 
ments covering the milk trade, must contain detailed 
regulations concerning : 

The production of milk. 

The care and handling of milk. 

The prevention of adulteration. 

The prevention of the sale of tainted or damaged 
milk. 

In respect to the enforcement of these regulations in 
cities, the supervision will rest — at least in Denmark — 
with the local health authorities, and preferably with a 
veterinarian appointed by this authority, who will con- 
duct the inspection of the milk establishments with the 
cooperation of the police, and take the necessary sam- 
ples for further examination. In small cities, the inspec- 
tion of the production of the milk may also be under- 
taken by the same veterinarian ; but in the larger cities, 
as a rule, this is left to the local veterinarians in the coun- 
try, and the various dealers or herd owners are required 
to furnish certificates, that should be drawn up on a 
prepared blank and be submitted to the health office con- 
cerned. 

I. REGULATIONS REGARDING THE PRODUCTION 
OF MILK 

Public supervision of the production of milk presents 
great difficulties and has been carried out in but a few 
places. In the ordinances of most cities, there are cer- 
tain requirements pertaining to the production of milk, 
but their enforcement is not always provided for. In 
several cities every owner of cattle who delivers milk in 
the city, either directly or indirectly, is obliged to appear 
before a public authority and pledge himself to observe 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 165 

the existing legal requirements or those that may be 
made later, and especially to report every change in the 
make up of his herd. This is a good arrangement. The 
actual observance of these requirements should be con- 
trolled by frequent visits of a veterinarian appointed 
by a central authority or by occasional visits of the 
local veterinarian, but the latter plan is not so satisfac- 
tory. 

Such a regulation would, of course, be particularly 
difficult in large cities as, for example, Copenhagen, 
which receives milk not only from a very large number 
of large and small herds, the cows in which are often 
changed, but is supplied with milk from a large part of 
the country. On the other hand, the regulations men- 
tioned can be adopted without great difficulty in small 
cities, although they might cause dissatisfaction at first 
among the dairy farmers. In most of the larger cities, 
up to the present time, little has been done except to 
publish notices in regard to the regulations respecting 
the production of milk, but no reports have been de- 
manded of producers and no special control has been 
provided to enforce these regulations. The local boards 
of health have the right to investigate cases which are 
reported and if necessary to forbid the sale of milk from 
the premises involved. 

[In the United States, there is a certain amount of 
dairy farm inspection under the authority of the states. 
In Massachusetts, herds are inspected by the Cattle Bu- 
reau of the Board of Agriculture, in Pennsylvania by 
the State Livestock Sanitary Board, on request from" 
local boards of health that their milk supplies be exam- 
ined into; in several states, herds and premises are in- 
spected under authority of the State Dairy and Food 
Commissioner, the Commissioner of Agriculture or the 
State Board of Health. In no state, however, is there a 



166 MILK HYGIENE 

systematic inspection of all dairy herds, excepting in 
Massachusetts, where the inspection is made for the pur- 
pose of controlling bovine tuberculosis. A number of 
cities, on the other hand, require periodical inspection 
of the herds from which they obtain their milk supply. 
L. P.] 

The control to which a number of large milk com- 
panies have submitted voluntarily, either from philan- 
thropic motives or because driven to it by competition, 
consists chiefly in frequent, regular visits from vet- 
erinarians to the milk producing herds, during which 
not only the conditions of health of the cows but also 
their food, the cleanliness of the stables, the handling 
of the milk, and the health of the milkers are the objects 
of a more or less eifective supervision. Some establish- 
ments have provided a separate organization for super- 
vising the health of the employees. It is self-evident 
that the methods of such companies, however good their 
private supervision may be, must be subject to the supe- 
rior control of health officers. 

[It will be observed that the author dwells not so 
much on the importance of the recognition of infective 
organisms in milk as on their exclusion. Unquestion- 
ably it is infinitely better, from the standpoint of the 
public health, to prevent the contamination of milk than, 
by means of laboratory examination, to discover evi- 
dences of contamination in a sample representing a 
quantity of milk that has already been consumed. 

Milk is not a food that is kept long ; it cannot be put 
away in storage until a sanitary examination has been 
made, and then released for consumption, or destroyed, 
according to the result of the examination. Only the 
briefest inspections can be made while the milk is en 
route from the producer to the consumer. 

The supply continues as a flowing stream, and is 



EEGULATION OF PRODUCTION 167 

never just alike at different times or places. The lab- 
oratory examination of a milk sample gives some infor- 
mation as to the condition of that sample and, by infer- 
ence, as to the conditions under which a certain quantity 
of milk was produced and handled on a given day. But 
some of the contaminations of milk that are most dan- 
gerous cannot be detected by routine examinations in 
the laboratory, if at all, excepting by their effects on the 
consumer ; among such contaminations are those caused 
by the specific organisms of tuberculosis, typhoid fever, 
diphtheria, scarlet fever and the materies morhi of 
many diseases of cows. Therefore, so far as the pre- 
vention of the infection or pollution of milk is concerned, 
it is more important that the milk be produced under 
such conditions that contamination is well guarded 
against than to know the condition of a certain quantity 
that has already been used. 

The laboratory examination of milk is, however, of 
much value in checking and controlling the accuracy of 
farm and herd inspections, which inspections are de- 
signed to prevent infection and pollution, while the lab- * 
oratory discovers contaminations that have already 
occurred.' 

The author's position on this general subject is quite 
analogous to the opinion that is now held by sanitarians 
in regard to the way in which the purity of the water 
supply should be obtained and insured ; that is, by clean- 
ing and guarding the source. 

It is well to lock the stable door before the horse is 
stolen. But it has, thus far, been impossible in America, 
excepting in a few isolated instances, to impress the 
public sufficiently to lead to the establishment of a sys- 
tematic inspection of the sources and methods of hand- 
ling and transporting milk. Reasons for this condition 
are, the paucity of specially trained men for this ser- 



168 MILK HYGIENE 

vice and, on this account, the difficulty health officers 
have experienced in securing inspectors to do such work 
in a satisfactory way and, secondly, the expense. A 
properly equipped dairy farm inspector must have had 
special training, and must he familiar with, and he ahle 
to apply, facts from pathology, hacteriology, zootechnics 
and dairy hushandry. 

Dr. William T. Sedgwick has emphasized the impor- 
tance of control of the source of the milk supply, to pre- 
vent pollution, as follows : ^^ 

^ ^ It should never be forgotten that if water were to 
be drawn, as milk is, from the body of a cow standing in 
a stable, by the hands of workmen of questionable clean- 
liness, and then stored and transported over long dis- 
tances in imperfectly cleaned, closed cans, being further 
manipulated more or less, and finally left at the doors 
at an uncertain hour of the day, few would care to drink 
it, because its pollution and staleness would be obvious. 
It is clear, moreover, that it requires and deserves more 
careful treatment than water, for it is more valuble, 
more trusted and more readily falsified or decomposed.'^ 

Dr. Rowland G. Freeman has stated his opinion as to 
the importance of controlling the source of the milk sup- 
ply, rather than to attempt to determine its character by 
bacteria counts, in these words : ' ^ It seems to me that 
while the counts of bacteria are exceedingly valuable as 
an exponent of cleanliness and proper handling of milk, 
they should be used only to prevent carelessness at the 
dairy and to stimulate better methods and discipline. 

^^ The opinion of a milk commission of representa- 
tive men (experts) based on an actual knowledge of the 
management of the dairy is of vastly more value to the 

^^ Sedj^wick, Principles of Sanitary Science and the Public 
Health. New York and London, 1902, page 279. 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 169 

medical profession and to the public than any statement 
regarding the precise number of bacteria in the milk 
upon any given day or days. The most important 
things, after all, are such a regime as shall make con- 
tamination by pathogenic organisms improbable, and 
at the same time insure that the milk is produced under 
such conditions of cleanliness that other bacterial con- 
taminations will be reduced to the minimum." L. P.] 

a. The condition of health of the herd. The ideal 
requirement that only milk from a perfectly healthy 
herd may be marketed, cannot be maintained. The pub- 
lic, therefore, must be satisfied to demand that the health 
condition of the herd is such that its milk does not pos- 
sess injurious qualities. If infectious diseases which are 
transmissible, through milk, to man, break out in the 
herd, the sale of the milk should be forbidden as long as 
danger of infection be present. If individual cases of 
infectious or other diseases occur which may lead to the 
contamination of the milk of the affected cows by patho- 
genic bacteria or toxins, it must be the duty of the owner 
to prevent this milk being mixed with the other milk, 
and, indeed, wholly to prevent its use as food for man. 

Such regulations as the following may be regarded 
as necessary : 

The use of the milk from the whole herd is to he dis- 
continued if foot-and-mouth disease, lung plague or 
anthrax occur, also in the case of extended outbreaks of 
transmissible infections of the udder, septic enteritis, 
cowpox, or of any toxic disease of a large part of the 
herd. 

The milk of individual cows should not he used, and 
affected animals are immediately to be removed from 
the stable, in cases of tuberculosis affecting the udder, 
the uterus or the intestines and when the lungs are so 
affected as to occasion physical s^nnptoms; also, milk 



170 MILK HYGIENE 

from cows suffering from anthrax or rabies (bitten by 
affected animals), and that from cows with mastitis, 
with inflammation of the uterus and retention of the 
afterbirth, inflammation of the intestines or severe 
diarrhoea, and with severe cellulitis or abscesses and 
suppurating wounds. 

Milk should not be used from coivs suffering from 
any sort of febrile disease or intoxication, with pox or 
suppurating sores on the teats, with inflammation or 
other disease of the udder, constipation or diarrhoea. 
Moreover, it should not be used from cows that are being 
treated with medicines that have a strong odor (volatile 
oils, ether, asafoetida and the like), with alkaloids or 
potent glycosides, with preparations of iodine, arsenic, 
mercury, antimony or lead. 

A very proper requirement is that milk from coivs 
that have recently calved is not to be mixed ivith the rest 
of the milk, for the beast milk (colostrum) differs 
greatly in composition from normal milk and may have 
a harmful effect on small children. For 6 to 8 days 
after calving, the milk should not be mixed with the 
other milk. Also, milk from coivs approaching the 
end of the period of gestation and which are only 
giving a little milk, should not be mixed ivith that 
intended for sale, because it is often quite alkaline and 
may differ a good deal in its composition from normal 
milk. 

The complete observance of these requirements is, 
evidently, very difficult to control. In part, one must 
rely on the honesty of the owner, who should be held 
responsible for failure to comply with the legal require- 
ments. When a dairyman is under contract to furnish 
milk to a company having its own conditions and regula- 
tions, he may be held accountable for failure to fulfil 
the obligations he has undertaken. In general, it can be 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 171 

said that the observance of the conditions that are out- 
lined above, as well as those that will be mentioned later, 
can be expected only when the dairy farm is under the 
inspection of a veterinarian who is entirely independent 
of the owner. 

Therefore, when it is possible, one should endeavor 
strongly to arrange for such veterinary supervision. 
Naturally, it is of some advantage to make inspections 
now and then, at irregular times, but if the control is to 
be really effective, the visits must take place frequently, 
and with some degree of regularity. Preferably, the 
visits should not be more than fourteen days apart be- 
cause, in that time, tuberculosis may attain such develop- 
ment that bacilli may be excreted with the milk, and dis- 
eases of the udder often develop acutely and follow a 
short and rapid course, thus making frequent examina- 
tions necessary. Only in cases in which the milk is sub- 
jected to a really safe process of pasteurization before it 
is sold, should a less frequent inspection be considered 
sufficient. 

[This amount of supervision, a visit to each produc- 
ing farm ever} two weeks, is not attainable with relation 
to the milk supply of the large cities of the United 
States, nor is it to be regarded, in the present provi- 
sional state of the sanitary development of the country, 
as necessary. That producing farms should be under 
some supervision, all agree. The amount of supervision 
that is necessary varies with the conditions. If a given 
herd is known to be infected with tuberculosis and 
infested with other diseases, if the premises are bad and 
the owner careless, then frequent inspections should be 
made until there is decided improvement; on the other 
hand, if a certain herd is known to be clear of tuber- 
culosis, calf cholera, infectious gargets, etc., if the prem- 
ises are good and well kept and the owner intelligent and 



172 MILK HYGIENE 

careful, longer intervals may safely be permitted to 
elapse between visits. After an inspector lias gone over 
bis ground and lias become acquainted with local condi- 
tions, and tbe individuals, tbe question of frequency of 
visits should be left to a larger extent to him. 

The number of inspectors required is of course in 
direct proportion to the frequency of inspections. If a 
single inspector could visit all of the dairy farms sup- 
plying a given city in one year, about twelve inspectors 
would be required to visit these farms each month. It 
is estimated that the number of inspectors that would 
be required to carry out an adequate system of dairy 
farm insi^ection for the city of Philadelphia is about 20. 
About 60 to 80 country inspectors would be required 
for the city of New York. L. P.] 

For herds supplying " nursery milk '^ or " infants' 
milk/' decidedly rigid requirements must be made be- 
cause, so far as possible, this milk must be so produced 
that it can be used in its raw state by children and 
invalids without any danger whatever. 

Therefore, dealers should not be permitted to sell 
milk under these names if the herds are not under the 
inspection of a public veterinary officer ; and the inspec- 
tions should take place at least every fourteen days, 
preferably every week. * It must be required that ^ ' nurs- 
ery milk " shall come only from herds absolutely free 
from tuberculosis {i.e., herds that are tested luitJi tuber- 
culin at least once every year, and to which only abso- 
lutely healthy animals are allowed to be added), be- 
cause the diagnosis of some dangerous forms of tuber- 
culosis is often very difficult and, in the earlier stages, 
even impossible, and because it has been proven impossi- 
ble to prevent the occurrence of the dangerous forms 
merely by the removal of animals in which tuberculosis 
is clinically apparent. Besides, the definite requirement 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 173 

must be Inade that the delivery of milk must cease in- 
stantly if numerous cases of septic enteritis or strepto- 
coccus mastitis appear and also if ' ' calf cholera ' ' occurs 
malignantly or endemically. 

Moreover, the prompt removal from the herd is de- 
sired of every animal that has fever, or any kind of 
infectious disease. It is the duty of the owner himself 
to discontinue the delivery of the milk and to undertake 
the necessary isolation, when occasion may arise be- 
tween the visits of the veterinarian, and he should call 
the veterinarian as soon as any suspicious disease may 
appear. 

These requirements are already enforced by private 
companies and so there can be no question as to whether 
it is possible to carry them into effect but, up to the pres- 
ent time, they are enforced by the public in only a few 
cities. 

b. Feeding the herd. As has already been stated, 
it is now the belief that the composition of the milk does 
not depend in any material degree on the composition 
of the food, and that injurious substances are not ex- 
creted through the udder to the extent that was formerly 
supposed. Therefore, one is not justified in forbidding 
the use of such a number of foods as has been done and 
is still done by some large cities. Only such foods 
should be prohibited as are decomposed (mouldy, putrid 
or fermenting), or materials containing great numbers 
of resistant bacteria of fermentation (creamery refuse, 
frozen forage, the offal of root crops, etc.), or excessive 
quantities of unnatural food materials (the refuse of 
some manufactories, distillers' slops, malt, molasses 
etc.), and strongly smelling vegetable matter (turnip 
tops, cabbage, green forage containing poisonous plants, 
etc.). The use of other food stuffs should be forbidden 
in such quantities as are injurious to the cow (turnips 



174 MILK HYGIENE 

causing diarrhoea, concentrated feed causing indigestion, 
poisoning by cotton-seed and nut-cake, etc.). 

It has been required in some cases that cows supply- 
ing '^ nursery milk " shall be fed only upon dried fod- 
der, and the use of oil meals has been restricted. By 
this means, milk has been obtained which is good and 
uniform, but it is so very expensive that its use is re- 
stricted. Our present knowledge of the effect of food 
upon milk does not sustain this requirement. But, it 
should be observed, the stable and cows can be kept clean 
much more easily if the cows are fed exclusively upon 
dry foods than when they are fed in part upon turnips or 
other green food. Therefore, if this one-sided method 
of feeding is not demanded, great emphasis must be 
placed on cleanliness with respect to herds supplying 
nursery milk. It is not inappropriate, however, to make 
some extra requirements in regard to feeding cows pro- 
ducing nursery milk. For example, food stuff s, such as 
distillers' slops, malt and molasses, as well as all fodder 
which, fed in large quantities, may be injurious to cows, 
should not be used (buckwheat, lupine, mustard, rape, 
cakes mixed with mustard, cotton-seed meal, nut-cakes, 
potatoes, etc.). Of course it is difficult to prove that a 
ration containing a small quantity of these materials 
would impart injurious properties to the milk ; but it is 
safest, when it concerns milk for small children, to avoid 
any possible danger connected with the use of such 
foods; the more so, as this prohibition would have 
no influence at all upon the cost of production of the 
milk. Nor should one be allowed to give so great a 
quantity of turnips or green fodder to cows that are 
stabled that they suffer from diarrhoea, even to a slight 
degree. 

[There has been much discussion and, in the past, 
much difference of opinion, as to the propriety of using 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 175 

silage as a food for milch cows, and especially as food 
for cows producing nursery or certified milk. 

The building of silos and the ensiloing of crops are 
new procedures in America, as elsewhere, and methods 
both of construction and filling have undergone rapid 
development. Only a few years ago, when square, 
poorly built silos were used, some of them built as pits, 
below ground, and before silage cutters and elevators 
had been developed, and when it was the practice in 
some cases to ensilo green maize stalks without cutting, 
and in bundles, there was much decomposed, putrid and 
mouldy silage, which had a very offensive odor and 
which was decidedly objectionable as food for dairy 
cows or, indeed, for any animals. 

In these days, however, silos are better made and 
better filled; they are usually round or octagonal, thus 
facilitating even filling and settling, machinery for cut- 
ting has been perfected, so that the silage is divided 
into short lengths of from one-half to one inch, and 
Indian corn, the chief silage crop, is no longer used in 
the soft, immature state, but is permitted to come al- 
most to maturity. Putrefaction does not occur in prop- 
erly handled silage. The fermentation that takes place 
is caused partly by bacteria and partly by enzymes in 
the maize plant. Good silage is a wholesome, nutritious 
food that is appetizing and comparatively easy of di- 
gestion. 

Silage is fed to cows on nearly, if not quite, all of 
the large farms in America devoted to the production of 
certified and nursery milk. It is not known to be subject 
to any objection other than if fed in too large quantity 
it produces an undesirable degree of laxativeness, and 
if fed just before or during milking, if it is not first class, 
the odor of the silage may be eliminated with or ab- 
sorbed by the milk. This is avoided by feeding it after 



176 MILK HYGIENE 

milking and by not allowing the residues to accumulate 
in or about the stable. 

Frasier '^ ^ has shown by some tests made with milk 
from cows fed silage of good quality that no objection- 
able flavor or odor was imparted to the milk either when 
the silage was fed before, during, or after milking. In- 
deed, in 372 tests made, silage milk was preferred in 
233, or 60 per cent. L. P.] 

A further demand in reference to herds supplying 
nursery milk should be established — that frequent and 
sudden changes in food should be forbidden, as the com- 
position of the milk immediately after such a change is 
often materiall}' altered, and it is more probable that 
when the udder is '^ surprised '' by such a sudden 
change the secretory function is thrown out of equilib- 
rium and abnormal, and possibly injurious, substances 
are secreted with the milk. 

C. Cleanliness in the stable and during milking. In 
order to guard, so far as possible, during milking, 
against pollution with dirt and, at the same time, with 
bacteria, the most thorough cleanliness of the cows and 
the stable, and care on the part of the milkers, is to be 
desired. However, it is very difficult to establish detailed 
regulations in this respect, and no less difficult to en- 
force them. We usually find that the regulations under 
this heading are confined to the concisely stated orders 
that cows and stables must be kept clean ; that, at milk- 
ing, the greatest possible cleanliness must be observed 
and that, just before milking, the udder and teats are to 
be washed. 

However, where the conditions permit the establish- 
ment of more detailed regulations, as in the larger milk 

*^ Wilber J. Frasier, Bulletin No. 101, Agricultural Experiment 
Station, University of Illinois, Urbana, 1905. 



REGULATION OF PRODUCTION 177 

companies, which are under private control, this should 
be done. In this connection, the following regulations 
which, first, the Copenhagen Milk Supply Company and, 
afterward, other companies in Copenhagen, have fur- 
nished to their producers stand as an example to be 
imitated : 

1. The stable must be so built that the urine has an 
unobstructed exit and the floor must be of such nature 
that it may easily be kept clean. The cows must be well 
bedded and, for this purpose, no spoiled or rotten straw 
or hay can be used, nor straw or hay that has previously 
been used for packing. The stable must be kept as clean 
as possible. In the morning, the manure must not be 
removed until after milking; in the afternoon, at least 
one hour should pass after mucking out before milking. 
After cleaning the stable, it should be thoroughly aired, 
unless the ventilating system is particularly good, so as 
to render this unnecessary. 

2. In order to prevent the hind quarters of the cow 
from becoming too dirty, the hair of the tail, on the 
udder, the flanks and on the outer side and the rear of 
the thighs should be clipped before the cow is stabled in 
the fall. Besides this, the cow should be cleaned with a 
curry comb and brushed every day. Definite and more 
stringent regulations concerning the cleanliness of the 
stable and the cows should be made in summer, if they 
are fed in the stable, and in winter if green (laxative) 
fodder is used. 

3. AYhen the cows are kept in the stable, their teats 
are to be washed with clean water and dried with a clean 
cloth. If the udder is dirty, this, also, must be washed 
and dried. If the cows are milked in pasture, this 
cleansing cannot be done so satisfactorily [and there 
is less occasion for it], so it is usually best to confine 
the washing of the teats and udder to such of the cows 

12 



178 MILK HYGIENE 

as are apparently soiled with manure or earth. If there 
are sores ujjon the teats these must be carefully washed 
off. Instead of washing, one may rub the udder with a 
dry cloth or brush it and then rub in a little neutral fat 
[as vaseline]. ^2 

4. The milkers must have a special dress to be used 
only during milking, and this must be washed as often 
as necessary. The milkers must wash their hands be- 
fore milking, and during milking they must have plenty 
of clean water and clean cloths at hand with which to 
wash not only the teats but also their own hands, as 
often as is necessary. 

5. Milk pails, milk strainers and milk cans must be 
carefully cleaned in the dairy house. If it be necessary 
to rinse out the pails or strainers when milking in the 
pasture, only clean water which has been carried to the 
place must be used and not that from a reservoir in the 
pasture. 

d. The health of the attendants. A very important 
point in milk hygiene is the condition of health among 
the workers in the dairy and of the milkers and, indeed, 
among all persons who are connected with milk produc- 
tion. As has already been emphasized, there are a num- 
ber of infectious diseases of man which can easily be 
transmitted through milk and which have appeared in 
many instances as extended ^^ milk epidemics." Fre- 
quent inspection by a physician of all persons connected 

•*- [This reference to milking cows at pasture, which has now 
become unusual in most parts of America, is explained by the Danish 
custom of keeping cows tethered out of doors the entire summer. 
During this season, the cows are allowed to gi-aze on grass and 
especially planted forage crops, which are harvested by the cows 
without waste, as the tether pin to which the tie rope is attached 
is moved but a few feet at a time and is not moved again until the 
forage within reach has been consumed. "Water is carried to the 
cows in tanks on wagons. L. P.] 



REGULATION OF PEODUCTION 179 

with the business is scarcely feasible, both because it 
would be an expensive procedure and because, in most 
cases, it would meet with great opposition and tend to 
increase labor difficulties. 

But the following regulations are regarded as neces- 
sary and they should be incorporated in public ordi- 
nances : 

The sale of milk shall cease immediately if typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other malignant in- 
fectious disease breaks out among people living in the 
farmstead ; ^^ the sale shall not be resumed until a physi- 
cian 's certificate has been received showing that all dan- 
ger of infection is over.^"^ 

Care must be taken that the milk does not come in 
contact in any way with persons in whose household one 
of the above-mentioned diseases exists, nor those who 
have discharging sores or skin diseases of the arms, 
hands or face. 

In addition, the local authorities should have the 
right to forbid the sale of milk if this is known, or be- 
lieved, to be the cause of an epidemic, even though no 
source of infection be proven on the farms in question. 

Several of the large milk companies of Copenhagen 
have established even more rigid regulations in regard 
to the health of the personnel and they insure the en- 
forcement of these rules by allowing the producer full 
value for his milk, when he holds it back on account of 
the occurrence of disease. The value of such a provision 
is obvious. 

e. The water supply. Since typhoid bacteria (and 

*•■' [The farmer's residence and the cow stable adjoin, so that they 
are, practically, parts of the same building, on most of the small 
farms of Denmark.] 

** [The danger of infection from persons recovering from typhoid 
fever and diphtheria continues for a long time.] 



180 MILK HYGIENE 

other pathogenic bacteria) may gain access to milk 
through water used to wash the milk vessels, care must 
be taken that pure water be provided on the farms from 
which market milk is sold, and that polluted or infected 
water is not used for cleansing the dairy utensils, nor 
the udder, nor shall it be used for the cows. [Contam- 
inated water has also done harm when used for cooling 
milk and it is believed to have led to the infection of 
milk, indirectly, through the soiling of the skin of the 
cow, as when wading through a foul stream. L. P.] 

/. The care of the milk. Immediately after milking 
each cow, the milk must be run through a fine metal 
strainer into a container. The strainer holds back only 
the larger pieces of dirt and some of these are dissolved 
by the continuous pouring of the milk, and bacteria are 
washed through, so it is advisable, so far as possible, to 
prevent the dirt that has been removed from coming into 
contact with the milk that is to follow. But it cannot be 
said that a strainer has yet been made that solves this 
problem in a satisfactory way; therefore one must get 
along by frequently cleansing the strainer from the par- 
ticles of dirt. Of course, it is very difficult to insure the 
observance of such a stipulation. Sufficiently rigid re- 
quirements in regard to the cleanliness of the milk sold 
and the seizure of impure milk, followed, perhaps, by the 
imposition of a fine would aid in enforcing the regula- 
tion. 

After the milk is drawn, it must be carried to a place 
prepared for this use and which must be used for no 
other purpose. This room must be well ventilated, clean 
and have an impervious floor. 

The milk must be cooled as soon as possible by pass- 
ing it over a cooler or by putting the cans into tanks 
containing ice water. If it is nursery milk, the cooling 
must be very carefully done, so that the temperature 



REGULATION OF PEODUCTION 181 

may not exceed 10° C. (50° F.). Milk should be kept 
chilled until it is ready to be shipped and then it must be 
guarded carefully against high temperature by protect- 
ing it from the sun, transportation by night, etc. 

If the transportation of milk requires a long time, it 
must be cooled to a low point, and, while it is not well to 
allow the whole quantity to freeze, in recent years a 
partly frozen milk (the outside layer frozen in the cans) 
or the addition of frozen milk to the other milk have 
been successfully used. 

[Milk shipped long distances in America is sent in 
refrigerator cars. Some milk is on the railroad 10 hours 
before it reaches market. Milk shipped short distances 
is usually not sent in refrigerator cars because, on the 
short runs, the cars have to be opened so often at local 
stations that there would be a great consumption of ice. 
If such milk is thoroughly chilled by the use of ice before 
it is shipped, it usually arrives in good condition; but 
if it is cooled only by the use of well or spring water it 
is an uncertain commodity in the hottest weather. Bot- 
tled milk is shipped in wooden boxes with broken ice 
packed around the bottles. 

Helm *^ has proposed that milk shall be shipped in 
square, instead of round, cans, so that they may be 
packed more closely and thus make a solid block, of 
low temperature, which may be covered over if neces- 
sary, and which will remain cold much longer than a 
loose collection of round cans, between which the 
warm air may freely circulate. This style of can is 
shown in figure 14. L. P.] 

Only well-tinned metal cans which are easily cleaned 
should be used for keeping milk (Fig. 13) ; these should 
be closed and sealed when transported by rail or boat. 

*^ Wilhelm Helm, Die Milehbehandlung, Liepzig, 1903. 



182 



MILK HYGIENE 



11. REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE SALE 
AND DELIVERY OF MILK 

Just as supervision is necessary of the herds which 
produce the milk, and in regard to the care of milk at 
its source, so also is supervision necessary after it comes 
into the hands of the wholesale and retail dealers. This 
supervision is much easier to carry out than that with 
relation to production. 

The regulations governing sale and delivery must 
embrace not onlv the methods of handling the milk and 



Fig. 14. 



Fig. 13. 





Danish milk-cans. 



Helm's milk-cans. 



the health of the attendants, but there should also be 
rules concerning the place in which the milk is sold, the 
manner of selling it and the labelling of the goods. 

a. Preparing the milk for delivery. Although small 
concerns subject the milk to no especial treatment from 
the time it is received until it is sold, this is not the case 
with the large companies. These have considerable 
work to perform in the handling of milk and its delivery 
to customers. The milk [under the Danish system] is 
received from the stations in a more or less cool condi- 



EEGULATION OF SALE 183 

tion and the cans are put into ice water in order to chill 
the milk sufficiently. It is then poured into a tank and 
mixed, thus making its composition uniform. Then fol- 
lows a process of cleansing, wherein the milk is either 
passed through a centrifuge, so constructed that the 
cream and the milk are not separated, but only particles 
of dirt are thrown out, or it is passed through a filtering 
apparatus which holds back some of these particles. A 
gravel filter is frequently used for filtering. This is a 
tank which is filled with layers of gravel of different 
degrees of fineness, through which the milk is slowly 
forced. The gravel is cleansed daily by washing 
and roasting. Only the particles of dirt are removed 
by this process; the number of bacteria is not appre- 
ciably reduced. A filter made of numerous layers of fine 
linen, tightly stretched, has been used successfully in- 
stead of the gravel filter. The cloth part is renewed 
after each use. This method has, among others, the ad- 
vantage that the filtering may take place directly into 
the can from which the milk is drawn off for sale, or the 
apparatus may be so arranged that while the milk is 
being filtered arid run off, it is at the same time cooled. 

The ^ ^ clarified ' ' milk is put into metal cans or glass 
bottles in which it is to be sold. This filling is sometimes 
done automatically, so that incorrect measuring is not 
possible, and sometimes by means of a machine similar 
in construction to those used in filling beer bottles. 

If the milk is to be pasteurized, it is first filtered, then 
run through the pasteurizer and over the cooler, into 
the delivery can; or it is placed in the clean bottles or 
cans that go into the pasteurizer or sterilizer (see page 
139). 

The public will scarcely require ordinances contain- 
ing exactly detailed regulations in regard to these differ- 
ent processes. Generally it is required only that the 



184 MILK HYGIENE 

vessels and apparatus used shall be entirely clean, that 
the milk be handled with the greatest cleanliness and be 
kept in well-tinned metal cans or in glass or earthenware 
vessels with perfect glazing, containing no lead, and that 
all vessels shall be so constructed that they will not be 
difficult to clean. 

Special regulations should he established for the pas- 
teurization of milk. If the heating is of short duration, 
it is desirable that the milk be heated to 80° C. (176° F.) 
and cooled immediately afterward. The following re- 
quirements should be established for heating at a lower 
temperature : Milk should be raised to a temperature 
of 65° to 70° C. (149° to 158° F.) and held there for one- 
fourth hour or it should be kept for one-half hour at a 
temperature of 60° to 65° C. (140° to 149° F.). The 
pasteurizer should be known to act accurately enough 
to attain the required temperature with certainty. 

h. The places for keeping and selling milk. The places 
in which milk is handled must be light, airy and easy to 
keep clean; therefore, they must be provided with an 
impervious floor and a good drain, and good, pure water 
must be easily accessible. 

The salesplaces must likewise be bright, airy and 
clean and, in addition, there are a number of special 
requirements. Milk should not be allowed to be sold in 
the same shop with other goods, with the exception of 
certain foods (as bread, honey, flour, butter, margarin 
and eggs), which cannot, either by their odor or in any 
other way, have a deleterious influence on the flavor and 
the keeping quality of the milk. Conducting a laundry, 
or a similar business, in the same place in which milk is 
kept or handled, should not be permitted. Of course, 
the apartment must not be used as a dwelling or a sleep- 
ing room, and it should not be in direct communication 
with sleeping rooms. If the place used for keeping and 



REGULATION OP SALE 185 

selling milk is in communication with living rooms, as 
happens in small premises, then it is positively neces- 
sary to have the apartments separated by a thick door, 
which shall be kept closed. 

G. The condition of health of the attendants. The same 
rules that apply to attendants in the places of production 
should be binding upon those at the salesplaces. How- 
ever, as the enforcement of these rules naturally meets 
very great difficulties, in most cities action has been 
limited to making the regulation and then punishing 
those guilty of offences that are, by chance, discovered. 

Several large concerns {e.g., some in Copenhagen) 
have voluntarily enforced strict regulations in regard to 
the health of attendants. In order to be sure that no 
suspicious disease among them or in their households 
shall escape being reported, they provide free medical 
services and also pay full wages to every employee 
who is temporarily absent from his work on account of 
illness in his family. (Compare regulations governing 
the producers for this society, page 178, and Appendix 
I, page 241.) 

Moreover, the public health department of the gov- 
ernment must be authorized — possibly upon the pay- 
ment of indemnity — to close milk businesses for a longer 
or shorter time, which are known to spread contagion, 
even though it cannot be shown just where the infection 
comes from. This authority must also apply to milk 
shops, when cases of typhoid fever, scarlet fever or 
diphtheria exist among people who work with the milk. 
If it is proven that the infection did not occur in the 
shop, the milk and the cream may be sold after steriliza- 
tion, if care is taken to see that this is thoroughly done. 
A milk shop is to be kept closed as long as there is dan- 
ger that it may distribute infection. 

d. Marking and packing the milk. The requirements 



186 MILK HYGIENE 

in respect to marking milk for sale form quite an impor- 
tant part of the regulations on the handling of milk, be- 
cause these have a very important bearing on the pre- 
vention of adulteration. The kinds of milk and milk 
products which are of importance are whole milk, ^ ^ half 
milk,'' skim milk, cream and buttermilk. 

Whole milk is the usual name for normal cow's milk 
which has not been deprived of any of its fat or other 
ingredients. As the fat content of milk is far from being 
uniform, and as partial skimming, or the addition of 
skimmed milk, is, therefore, not easily detected, many 
attempts are made to deceive by these falsifications. In 
order to prevent the sale of milk that may be unadulter- 
ated but which is too poor in fats, and in order to lessen 
the number of adulterations, a minimum content of fat 
and solids has been established in many cities, as well as 
the limits of the specific gravity. Milk which does not 
contain the required amount of fat cannot be sold as 
whole milk; if it is so sold it is considered adulterated. 

Reinsch ^^ has made a comparison of these require- 
ments in the German cities. Among 63 ordinances, 60 
contain such a minimum limit for fat; 37 of these place 
the limit at 2.7 per cent., 5 at 2.4 per cent, to 2.5 per 
cent., 7 at 2.8 per cent., 9 at 3 per cent, and only 2 have 
established a higher minimum at 3.2 per cent, to 3.3 
per cent. In 19 ordinances, the minimum content of 
solids varies between 10.5 per cent, and 12 per cent.; 
most require 11 per cent, to 11.5 per cent. Twenty- 
five place the limits of specific gravity; 10 of these as 
1.028 to 1.034, 8 as 1.029 to 1.033 and 5 as 1.029 to 1.034, 
while a single one provides 1.027 to 1.034. 

[The German standards are low because the fat con- 
tent of the milk of some of the breeds of dairy cows 

*® Die gesetzliche Regelung des Milchverkehrs in Deutschland, 
Hamburg, 1903. 



EEGULATION OF SALE 187 

in Germany is very low. It would be quite impracti- 
cable to enforce higher standards under such circum- 
stances. 

In 26 states of the United States there are laws estab- 
lishing milk standards.^^ The limits for fat are from 3 
per cent, (in one state only is the limit below 3 per cent. ; 
in Rhode Island it is 2.5 per cent.) to 3.5 per cent, (in one 
state, Massachusetts, for half the year, the limit is 3.7 
per cent.). For total solids, the limits are from 12 per 
cent, (in one state only is the standard lower: Ohio, 
during May and June, it is 11.5 per cent.) to 13 per 
cent. 

The standards for cities and towns vary within the 
same limits ; some are established by the state standard 
and some by the cities themselves. L. P.] 

It is evident from the above requirements that it is 
difficult to agree on percentages and standards which 
may be considered perfectly just and reasonable. If the 
requirements are placed too high, the owners of a num- 
ber of herds (especially those made up of purchased 
cows) soon find it impossible to deliver milk in the cities ; 
if the requirements are placed too low, the object of reg- 
ulation is attained only to a very limited extent. There- 
fore, it has been suggested that different grades of whole 
milk be established. Leipzig and Dresden have such 
a provision, under which only milk with a minimum fat 
content of 2.8 per cent, to 3 per cent, is permitted to be 
sold as '^ whole milk I quality," while unadulterated 
cow's milk of less fat content can be sold under the 
name '^ whole milk II quality"; in Leipzig, however, 
this can be marketed only with the designation of the 
fat content. Several other Saxon cities have similar 

*^H. E. Alvord and R. A. Pearson, The Milk Supply of 200 
Cities and Towns, U. S. Dept. of Agr., B. A. I., Bulletin No. 46, 
Washington, 1903. 



188 MILK HYGIENE 

provisions, under which milk containing less than 2.8 
per cent, fat can be sold only with a definite statement 
of the fat content. 

It must depend upon local conditions whether such a 
provision is desirable or not, and also whether it is re- 
garded as wise to establish a minimum fat (and solid) 
content, and at what point these should be placed. 

[Legal standards for milk are, by some, objected to 
on two grounds ; first, that it is unfair to establish a mini- 
mum standard so high that it will exclude the milk 
from some cows, and, second, that if the standard is 
low it will encourage dealers to dilute rich milk to a point 
just above the standard. 

As to the first objection, it does not appear to be un- 
reasonable that an article of food sold as milk shall be 
required to contain a certain minimum amount of nutri- 
ment. Entirely aside from the adulteration of milk, 
which such standards are established to check, it is pos- 
sible to select and develop herds of cows of certain 
breeds that will furnish milk of very low fat and solids — 
not fat content. What has occurred in this direction 
is shown by reports on the weekly analyses of the milk 
of a herd of cows at JaSchkowitz,*^ where the milk ran 
down to 2.47 per cent, fats and 7.88 per cent, solids not 
fat. The lowest average for the herd for a month was : 
fat, 2.60 per cent. ; solids not fat, 8.06 per cent. ; total 
solids, 10.66 per cent. The official records of Holstein 
cows ^^ show that many individuals yield milk contain- 
ing less than 3.0 per cent, of fat, and some as little, for 
a time at least, as 2.6 per cent. This tendency could, 
undoubtedly, be intensified if the absence of milk stand- 

*^ Bericht iiber die Tatigkeit des Milchwirtsehaf tlichen Instituts 
zu Proskau f iir das Jahr 1905-1906. 

*^ C. B. Lane, Record of Dairy Cows in the United States, U. S. 
Dept. of Agr., B. A. I., Bulletin No. 75, Washington, 1905. 



EEGULATION OF SALE 189 

ards favored it. In other words, the milk could be wa- 
tered through the cow.' The tendency among breeders 
of Netherland cattle in America (and largely on account 
of milk standards) is to increase the fat content of their 
milk, and many such cows yield milk containing 4 per 
cent, to 4.5 per cent., and, exceptionally, even 5 per 
cent, of fat. 

In regard to the second objection, the dilution of rich 
milk is scarcely more likely to be practiced if there is a 
minimum standard than if there is none, and it can be 
prevented quite as effectively by law, inspection and 
penalty with a minimum standard, as without one. 

All of the existing standards in the United States 
are much below the average quality of the milk sold in 
the cities to which the standards apply. It is proposed 
by Wing -^^ that no special standard be established, but 
that each dealer be required to guarantee his own stand- 
ard, and that he be held responsible if his milk be found 
below this guarantee. Some dealers now sell bottled 
milk of different grades, containing either 4 per cent, 
or 5 per cent, of fat, but all of it is above the minimum 
standard. L. P.] 

Special rules must be made for milk sold under the 
name "infants' milk'' or ''nursery milk/' and it must 
be required that this shall come absolutely from herds 
that are under constant veterinary inspection and whose 
condition of health and cleanliness and feed are gov- 
erned by special requirements (see page 174). In 
a number of German ordinances, in addition to these re- 
quirements, the minimum fat content is placed at 3.0 per 
cent., which is considered fair. [In the United States 
^^ Certified milk'' is usually required to contain 4 per 
cent, fat.] Another regulation which is justly put upon 

-'^ H. H. Wing, Milk and its Products, New York and London, 
1899. 



190 MILK HYGIENE 

the dealer in nursery milk is that the milk shall be sold 
only in clear glass bottles and that the bottles shall 
be cleansed or sterilized before they are filled. 

It should be required that milk sold as '' controlled '' 
{'^ certified^ ^ or '^ guaranteed^ ^) shall come from herds 
that are under constant and competent veterinary in- 
spection. 

Half sJcimmied or '^ half milk '' is milk from which 
a part of the fat has been removed. It is well to estab- 
lish a niinimum fat content of 1 to 1.5 per cent., as 
already has been done in some German cities. 

[In most cities in America, milk that is below the 
minimum standard, as half skimmed milk is, can be sold 
legally only as skimmed milk. There is no grade for 
milk between whole milk and skimmed milk. The desira- 
bility of establishing such a grade may well receive care- 
ful consideration. The same end could be gained by the 
adoption of Wing's suggestion, but its enforcement 
would entail administrative difficulties. L. P.] 

[Skimmed milk is milk from which the cream has 
been removed by hand skimming or from which the but- 
ter-fat has been extracted by means of a centrifugal sep- 
arator. The former kind may contain from 0.5 per 
cent, to 1.5 per cent, fat, while the latter rarely. con- 
tains more than 0.3 per cent, fat and sometimes as little 
as 0.01 per cent. The sale of skimmed milk is wholly 
prohibited in some American cities, as in New York. 
This prohibition is placed on account of the great in- 
clination on the part of some dealers to sell skimmed 
milk as whole milk and the difficulty of detecting and 
preventing this practice. It is possible, however, to 
secure a proper observance of the law on this subject, as 
is proven by the experience of cities in all countries, and 
it would be far better for the rich Cit^^ of New York to 
employ more inspectors, if necessary, to prevent fraud 



REGULATION OF SALE 191 

in the sale of skim milk than to deprive the poor of 
this wholesome, nutritious and cheap food. 

It should be required in every case that vessels con- 
taining skim milk shall be permanently and conspicu- 
ously marked. To deliver or to store skimmed milk in an 
unmarked container on the premises or wagon of a 
dealer should be regarded as evidence of intent to de- 
fraud and should subject the violator to penalty. 

Skimmed milk should contain not less than 9.25 per 
cent, of milk solids. L. P.] 

Creamy for the production of which the same sani- 
tary requirements are necessary as for milk, should be 
sold with the fat content designated, if there is no local 
regulation to grade it or establish fat percentages. 
[The percentage of fat in cream varies from 8 per 
cent, to 50 per cent., or more. The usual quality, as 
sold in the market, contains about 15 per cent, to 20 per 
cent. fat. The standard for cream, as established by 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture, is 18 per cent. 
Heavy, rich cream contains from 30 per cent, to 40 
per cent. fat. L. P.] 

[Buttermilk requires no special standard except" that 
it be made from clean milk, and in a cleanly way. It is 
largely used as a summer beverage and, as typhoid 
bacilli and other pathogenic forms will live in it for 
some time, it is important that it be protected from con- 
tamination. An imitation of buttermilk is sometimes 
made in city milk shops by churning sour skimmed milk. 

L.P-] 

Pasteurized milk. The following regulations are 
proposed for milk that has been heated and that is to be 
sold as ^' pasteurized ": Under this name, and without 
a more detailed statement, should be understood milk 
that has been heated to at least 80° C. (176° F.) ; if the 
milk is pasteurized at a lower temperature, this must be 



192 MILK HYGIENE 

distinctly marked upon the bottle or can, and the milk 
must not be permitted to go upon the market until the 
method has received official sanction. Sterilized milk 
should be sold only with a statement of the way in which 
sterilization has been done, and not until after the 
method has been inspected and approved. But it is not 
enough merely to establish such requirements ; the sani- 
tary officers must see to their enforcement, partly by vis- 
iting the pasteurizing and sterilizing establishments, 
partly by taking samples and examining the milk sold. 
Fortunately, it is possible to determine by chemical 
means whether milk has been heated to 80° C. (176° F.) 
or not. These tests are based on an observation by 
Arnold and have been developed by Babcock, Storch and 
others.'"^^ The principles are the following: 

Storch's metJiod: 5 c.c. of milk are poured into a test tube; a 
drop of weak solution of hydrogen dioxide (about 0.2 per cent.), 
which contains about 0.1 per cent, sulphuric acid, is added, and 2 
drops of a 2 per cent, solution of paraphenylendiamin, then the 
fluid is shaken. If the milk or the cream becomes, at once, indigo 
blue, or the whey violet or reddish brown, then this has not been 
heated or, at all events, it has not been heated higher than 78° C. 
(172.5° r.) ; if the milk becomes a light bluish gray immediately or 
in the course of half a minute, then it has been heated to 79° to 80° 
C. (174.2° to 176° F.). If the color remains white, the milk has been 
heated at least to 80° C. (176° F.). In the examination of sour milk 
or sour buttermilk, lime water must be added, as the color reaction is 
not shown in acid solution. 

Arnold's guaiac method: a little milk is poured into a test tube 
and a little tincture of guaiac is added, drop by drop. If the milk 
has not been heated to 80° C. (176° F.), a blue zone is formed 
between the two fluids; heated milk gives no reaction, but remains 

"'"'* Heating milk to a high temperature coagulates the albumin 
and globulin and the milk loses its property of curdling by the 
action of rennet. By this change one may discover that it has 
been heated, but not determine whether the milk has been heated 
to 80° C. (176°F.), that is, if it has been pasteurized. 



REGULATION OF SALE 193 

white. The gnaiac tincture should not be used perfectly fresh but 
should have stood a few days and its potency have been determined. 
According' to the observations by Glage, the guaiac-wood tincture 
appears to be more reliable than the harz tincture. Zink recommends 
the addition of a few drops of weak solution of hydrogen dioxide, 
as this causes the reaction to be much surer and sharper. 

Of the two methods, the guaiac method is preferable in that the 
tincture is very lasting and may be kept a year without becoming 
ineffective, while the paraphenylendiamin solution must be renewed 
quite often ; on the other hand, the guaiac method is, perhaps, hardly 
so accurate as the Storch method. 

Other substances are useful as reagents in combination with 
hydrog-en dioxide, as solution of potassium iodide with starch 
(Storch, du Roi, Kohler and others) and ursol (Utz) ; besides these, 
a methylene-blue- formalin solution (Schardinger) has been suggested 
for this purpose. 

[ Storch 's test may also be used for the purpose of 
detecting the adulteration of fresh milk with diluted 
condensed milk. In this case it is well to make the test 
comparative by running a parallel sample of milk known 
not to have been heated. L. P.] 

The sale of milk preparations which are made either 
by using foreign additions or by some special manipula- 
tion of the milk should be permitted only when the milk 
has been produced under the requirements above stated 
and only on declaration of the composition of the prep- 
aration. 

Milk containers. In case the milk is retailed in 
containers, there should be some stipulation in 
regard to these. Metal cans should be of tinned iron; 
for tinning, no tin should be used that has more lead 
than is absolutely necessary; the form must be such 
that they can be easily cleaned. Bottles are to be made 
of clear glass so that every impurity is noticeable; 
their form must, likewise, make satisfactory cleansing 
possible. 

In recent years, the large milk companies have en- 

13 



194 MILK HYGIENE 

deavored in their own interest, as well as in that of the 
public, to provide sealed stoppers or covers for delivery 
bottles and cans, which more surely prevents their being 
opened before delivery and which makes it impossible 
for an unscrupulous person to fill anew, with milk or 
cream, the vessel which, from accident or improper rea- 
sons, was partly or wholly emptied. With metal cans, 
this security is most easily effected by the use of a 
simple lead and wire seal, applied after filling. A per- 
fectly reliable closure for the bottles, on the other hand, 
offers some difficulty, because it is so expensive. The 
accompanying illustrations show some of the methods 
used. Fig. 15 shows a method of closing which corre- 
sponds to that used on mineral-water bottles. After 
closing, a label is pasted over the top; this method is 
somewhat expensive and does not furnish a satisfactory 
guarantee as the label is easily loosened. Fi'g. 17 shows 

Fig. 15, 



Fig. 17. 
Fig. 16. 






the method used by the " Trifolium " milk company in 
Copenhagen. The upper part of the neck is perforated, 
and after the bottle has been closed by the insertion of 
the stopper, a wire is drawn through the holes and se- 
cured with a lead seal; this method gives efficient pro- 
tection but is somewhat expensive. Fig. 16 shows a 
method used during recent years in Germany, which is 
cheap and quite satisfactory. In the inside of the neck 



r 

I 



REGULATION OF SALE 195 

there is a small groove; after the bottle is filled, it is 
closed with a paraffined pulpboard cap which is pressed 
down into the neck of the bottle by means of a stamp, 
with its edges in the groove ; at the same time, the cap 
is marked, and it cannot be taken out without being torn. 
A similar cover, a pasteboard cap which is pressed a 
little way into the bottle (without the groove), is used by 
many milk concerns, but this gives little security, as the 
cap can easily be taken out and a new one substituted. 

[Paper or wood-pulp discs (sterilized) used as stop- 
pers may be sealed by pouring on top of them a little 
melted paraffine. This method is used by some dairies 
that produce certified milk. The customary method, 
however, among the best dairymen, is to cover the top 
of the bottle, after it is closed with the usual disc, with 
a cap of parchment paper, held around the neck of the 
bottle with a wire, cord or rubber band; or a cap of 
heavy tin foil is used, which is pressed down around the 
shoulder at the mouth of the bottle, and this holds its 
position quite well. Both of these methods have the ad- 
vantage of thoroughly guarding the mouth of the bottle 
and the disc that confines the milk. The lip of the bottle, 
over which the milk must be poured, is prevented from 
becoming soiled. These methods, however, do not afford 
such complete protection against tampering with the 
contents of the package as is furnished by a lead seal. 
However, if the box in which the bottles of milk are 
shipped from the farm to the distributing point, or to 
the customer, is sealed with a lead seal, as is done by 
some producers, the protection is sufficient. 

The usual practice among average dairymen is to 
depend on unparaffined and unsterilized wood-pulp discs, 
upon which is often printed the name of the dealer. 

Small dealers (and some large ones as well) some- 
times indulge in the most vicious and unsanitary prac- 



196 MILK HYGIENE 

tices in regard to bottling milk. They pour milk into 
bottles from cans in their wagons or hand carts on the 
street, exposing it to dirt, and, worst of all, they some- 
times fill bottles that have not been cleaned, or that have 
not been properly cleansed. Milkmen have been known 
to take a soiled bottle from the house of a customer, fill 
it with milk on a dirty wagon, while the wind is blowing 
dust about, close it with a disc taken from a coat pocket, 
perhaps from alongside a handkerchief, and then deliver 
it in the next house. It is not surprising that it lias been 
seriously proposed to prohibit the use of milk bottles. 
But the bottling of milk marks a distinct sanitary ad- 
vance, where it is carried out in a proper manner. It 
should be provided by public regulation that milk sliall be 
delivered in bottles only under the following conditions : 

1. Before they are filled, bottles shall be washed and 
sterilized, or they shall be cleansed by the use of some 
method that has the approval of the sanitary authorities. 

2. Stoppers for the bottles shall be clean (preferably 
sterilized) and shall be kept only in sterile packages or 
in a clean metal or glass receptacle provided exclusively 
for this use. 

3. Bottles shall be filled with milk only in a clean 
room provided for this purpose, and they shall not be 
removed from this room until they are stoppered. L. P.] 

HI. PUBLIC SUPERVISION TO PREVENT ADULTERATION 

Just as many foods can be adulterated, so also can 
milk and cream. As the fat is the most valuable ingredi- 
ent of milk, a common adulteration consists in partial 
skimming, or in the addition of skimmed milk or water ; 
less frequently, foreign material is added to the milk in 
order to give it a better appearance. It can be only 
excessively rarely that gross adulterations occur, such 
as the one reported by Sullivan, wherein a sample of 



PUBLIC SUPERVISION 197 

" milk " was found to consist of a mixture of water. 



white pigment, common salt and a little skimmed milk. 

Tliere is no general rule as to the frequency of adul- 
teration. In some cities, it does not appear to be partic- 
ularly frequent, while in others it is very common. 

Besides^ the adulterations found upon official exam- 
inations of the market milk in cities, the question of 
fraud sometimes arises in connection with the milk deliv- 
ered to creameries. In the creameries, it is customary 
to use some quick method for determining the approx- 
imate fat content of the milk that is delivered by the 
various patrons. 

In the official control of milk in cities two provisional 
or preliminary tests have long been used and these are 
still depended on to some extent ; they consist in the de- 
termination of the specific gravity and in a test of the 
transparency. Even when used in conjunction, these 
tests are not to be relied upon very far, but they can be 
used, if with sufficient caution, to determine whether a 
more thorough examination be necessary. If it is de- 
cided that a laboratory examination is required, a sam- 
ple should be taken with great care, and sealed and 
delivered to the appropriate expert for analysis. 

The specific gravity of cow's milk varies between 
about 1.027 and 1.040 at 15° C. (60° F.) ; but such differ- 
ences are to be found only in the milk of certain indi- 
vidual cows. The specific gravity of mixed-herd milk 
usually falls between 1.028 and 1.034. If the specific 
gravity is either above or below these limits it is always 
suspicious. [The average specific gravity is 1.032.] 

Many different forms of apparatus have been pro- 
posed for measuring the transparency of milk, to deter- 
mine if it is or is not diluted. However, these instru- 
ments are all defective and the results obtained by their 
use are not to be regarded as of any value except to indi- 



198 MILK HYGIENE 

cate whether a sample of the milk should be taken for 
analysis. The transparency of milk is dependent partly 
on the size and number of the fat globules, and partly on 
the casein in solution. As milk with fewer, but large, fat 
globules has not the same transparency as milk with 
more, but smaller, ones, even if the fat per cent, be the 
same, it is evident that these methods of examination 
may give misleading results. 

Feser's lactoscope is the simplest and best instru- 
ment made for this purpose. As Fig. 18 shows, it con- 
sists of a glass tube which narrows toward the bottom 
and is closed with a metal cap which supports a short 
vertical glass column on which are six black lines; the 
upper part of the glass has divisions marked with a 
double row of figures. Four c.c. of milk to be examined 
are poured into the tube, then enough water is added 
so that it will reach figure 40 (that is, 36 c.c. of water) ; 
the fluid is now mixed by shaking. If it is not possible 
to see the lines on the glass column inside the tube, a 
little water is added and the tube is again shaken ; this is 
continued until the lines become visible. When they can 
be seen through the diluted milk, the fat per cent, can 
be read from the scale. For example, if so much water 
has been added that the fluid reaches figure 60 (60 c.c. 
water and milk), then the milk has 3 per cent. fat. As 
already stated, this result cannot be relied upon ; in the 
examination of skimmed milk, quite too high a per- 
centage of fat is always indicated and, in regard to 
whole milk, the test may show from 0.5 per cent, to 1 
per cent, too much or too little. 

On account of the unreliability of this method in 
many places this preliminary test is no longer used and 
the inspectors take samples, without preliminary inspec- 
tion, for examination in the laboratory. 

[In the use of the lactoscope, the individual coeffi- 



TRANSPARENCY TEST 



199 



cient is of great moment. Different inspectors will in- 
terpret the same result quite differently. When one is 
experienced in examining with the lactoscope the milk 
of a given breed of cows, he may become so proficient 
that he can make a fair estimate of the fat content, but 



Fig. 18. 



Fig. 19. 



Feser's Lactoscope. 



Queveuue's Lactodensimeter. 



when another kind of milk is examined the result may 
not be so accurate. If milk tests normally, both in re- 
spect to specific gravity and lactoscopically, it is not apt 
to be much skimmed or watered. 
The following is from Leach : ^^ 



A. E. Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis. New York, 1905. 



200 MILK HYGIENE 

" As in the case of the lactometer, the purity of a milk sample 
cannot be positively established by the lactoscope alone. For instance, 
a watered milk abnormally high in fat would often be found to read 
within the limits of pure milk, when as a matter of fact its solids 
would be below standard. By a careful comparison of the readings 
of both the lactoscope and the lactometer, however, it is rare that a 
skimmed or watered sample could escape detection. 

" Thus, if the specific gravity by the lactometer is well within 
the limits of pure milk, and the fat, as shown by the lactoscope, is 
above 3:i per cent., the sample may be safely passed as pure, or 
as conforming to the standard. 

" A normal lactometer reading in connection with an abnormally 
low lactoscope reading shows both watering and skimming, and 
with an abnormally high lactoscope reading shows a milk high in 
fat, or a cream. With the lactoscope reading below three, and a 
low lactometer reading, watering is indicated. A lactometer reading 
above thirty-three, and a low lactoscope reading, indicate skim- 
ming." L. P.] 

IV. METHODS OF EXAMINATION 

In order to determine whether adulteration has taken 
place or not, the examination should cover the follow- 
ing: The specific gravity of the milk and of the whey, 
the fat content of the milk, the amount of milk solids, 
the amount of solids not fat, the specific gravity of the 
solids, the quantity of fat [and the percentage of 
ash]. Sometimes, the examination is extended to 
include the taking of a herd sample under special 
conditions in order to make a comparison between 
the sample officially collected and the milk offered for 
sale. Finally, foreign ingredients are tested for, as ni- 
trates, starch, [preservatives, artificial color, ^^ visco- 
gen," gelatin, etc.]. 

a. Taking samples for laboratory examination must be 
conducted with great care. Upon standing, the cream 
quickly rises to the top, so that the upper part of the 
milk contains more fat, even though no definite layer of 
cream has yet been formed. Therefore, before the test 



METHODS OF EXAMINATION 201 

is made, the milk should be well mixed. In milk that has 
been thoroughly chilled, it is difficult to again mix the 
cream equally, so one must be very exact in taking the 
sample. It often happens, in the milk shops, that the 
milk is not well mixed when sold and an examination 
of what is left may show so low a percentage of fat that 
one immediately becomes suspicious that adulteration 
has taken place, although it may not be so. 

h. Preserving the sample for analysis. If the milk sam- 
ple is to be kept or shipped, it is necessary to add a pre- 
servative. For this, potassium dichromate (^ grm. to 1 
liter) is used, which keeps the milk fluid for a long time ; 
this addition causes an increase in the specific gravity 
and the result of the chemical examination is also af- 
fected. This must be taken into consideration at the 
final test. It is generally better to add 20 drops of forma- 
lin to every liter, yet in this case it is possible that the 
specific gravity of the whey may be affected, on account 
of a partial splitting of the casein. It is still better to boil 
the filled bottle and then close it with a sterilized cork. 
In taking the sample, it is also necessary to avoid adding 
water even in the slightest quantity (rinse the bottles 
with milk), in order that no nitrate shall be added. 

c. The herd sample. In cases in which adulteration is 
suspected, comparison may be made of the milk under 
suspicion with that of the herd milked under super- 
vision. The importance of the stable, or herd test has 
been much overestimated. The great variations in the 
composition of the milk of individual animals, leads one 
to be careful in putting confidence in a comparison of the 
fat content of milk on ditf erent days ; but comparisons 
may fairly be made between the quantities of solids not 
fat and the specific gravity of the whey, which are fairly 
regular. The stable or herd test is very uncertain, 
therefore, for individual cows, or small herds, but it may 



202 MILK HYGIENE 

sometimes be used with advantage for large herds, al- 
though there is seldom cause, even in this case, to 
apply it. 

In taking a herd sample, the feeding and the care of 
the animals should not be varied in any respect, the 
milking should be conducted by the usual persons at the 
usual times and in the usual way ; less thorough milking 
gives lower fat content, while particularly thorough 
milking raises the percentage of fat. The quantity of 
milk for the day must be mixed together and the sample 
taken from the whole. As transitory changes occur in 
the composition of the milk, surer results will be gained 
from daily examinations for several days than from but 
one examination. 

d. Determining the specific gravity of milk and whey. 
Various instruments are used for this purpose : different 
areometers, the pycnometer or the hydrostatic scale. 
The areometer method is the simplest and, at the same 
time, it is sufficiently accurate, so there is no occasion to 
describe more in detail the other methods, which require 
weighings. 

Quevenne's lactodensimeter , in some one of its sev- 
eral modifications, is the areometer in common use. 
This is made like an ordinary areometer and divided 
into degrees which correspond to a specific gravity from 
1.014 to 1.040, or only from 1.022 to 1.038, since, by the 
latter division, a greater space is gained between the 
different degrees, without unduly lengthening the in- 
strument. From such a lactodensimeter one can easily 
read off four decimal places. 

The milk whose specific gravity is to be determined 
is well shaken and poured into a high glass cylinder of 
suitable diameter; the areometer is dropped in slowly, 
in order to prevent its bobbing up and down. [The bulb 
should be free from adhering air bubbles.] The figures 



LACTOMETER TESTS 203 

on the stem are the second and third decimals of the 
numbers of the specific gravity, so that 34 is to be read 
1.034. For this examination, the temperature of the 
milk must be 15° C. (60° F.) ; if it is not, the specific 
gravity of the milk at 15° C. must be calculated from 
the specific gravity found and from the temperature, 
for in milk inspection and analysis this is the standard. 
With the aid of the tables on pages 204 and 205, one 
of which is valid for whole milk and the other for 
skimmed milk, one can easily compute specific gravity 
for 15° C. from that found at another temperature. 

If the temperature of the whole milk is 18° C, and 
the lactodensimeter reads 29, one finds in the table, at 
the intersection of the perpendicular column 18° C. and 
the horizontal line 1.029, the number 29.6; the specific 
gravity is therefore equal to 1.0296 at 15° C. (See 
tables, pages 204 and 205.) 

In several of the lactodensimeter s {e.g., Soxhlet's) 
there is a thermometer in the instrument, whose scale 
does not show the degree of heat but gives directly the 
decimal to be added to or subtracted from the reading 
on the stem of the lactodensimeter, as the specific grav- 
ity. If the latter number is, for example, 29, and if the 
thermometer registers 3.5 above zero, the specific grav- 
ity at 15° C. is 1.02935. 

[The so-called New York Board of Health lactometer 
has an arbitrary scale divided into 120 equal parts. One 
hundred on this scale corresponds with a specific gravity 
of 1.029, which was supposed to represent the lowest 
specific gravity of pure milk, and represents 1.000, the 
specific gravity of water. If the specific gravity of a 
sample of milk fell to 90 it was supposed to be 90 per 
cent, pure, that is, to contain 10 per cent, of added 
water. But the specific gravity of milk varies so that 
this cannot be relied on and there is no single advantage 



204 



MILK HYGIENE 



o 





^ 


Oi 


Oi o o o 


o 


o 


r-{ 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


h 






o 


oi 


d <M CO -^ 


lO 


CO 


t^' 


00 


ci 


^ 


rH* CM 


CO 


"1^ 


>d 


d 






(M 


1— ( 


C^ (N (M <M 


c^ 


CM 


C-1 


CM 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


OO 


g 




o 


t-- 


!>. 00 00 CO 


00 


00 


05 


p 


Oi 


Oi 


Oi o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


^ 




Oi 


oi 


S ?q ?q c5 


^ 


lO 


CO 


t-^ 


00 


^ 


d c-i 


CO 


^ 


id 


d 






i-i 


I— 1 


(N 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


00 


OO 


CO 


s 




o 


iq 


vo <X> CO -X> 


p 


CO 


CO 


p 


CO 


p 


o t>: 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ 


o 




00 




d -H* (M* CO 


-t^ 


id 


d 


1- 


00 


oi 


d T-i 


cm" 


CO 


^* 


id 






r-l 


s 


(M <M S<1 C^ 


c^ 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


CO 


^ 


OO 


s 




O 


CO 


CO "*_ '^ ^ 


't 


rf^ 


'^ 


"t 


•^ 


-+• 


-fi -t< 


-f 


'tl 


r)^ 


Tt^ 


» 




t- 


oi 


S c^ o] c5 


■>*' 


id 


CO 


l^ 


od 


^ 


d rn' 


c-i 


CO 


rt^ 


id 






1-1 


1— < 


<N 


CM 


oq 


C^ 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


CO 


OO 


OO 


s 




o 


^ 


-H C^ c^ c^ 


C<J 


f>^. 


CM 


CM 


'^. 


CM 


CM CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


<^^. 


« 




CO 


oi 


d --5 c^ CO 


^ 


lO 


d 


W 


OO 


oi 


S CO 


oi 


I'A 


rt5 


id 






i-« 




CM G^ C^ <>1 


OI 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 


CO 


OO 


OO 


o 




o 


o 


P p p p 


p 


o 


P 


P 


P 


o 


o o 


o 


o 


P 


p 


o 

p 




to 


oi 


d rH (M* CO 


Tl^ 


id 


CO 


t^ 


CO* 


Oi 


d rH 


oi 


CO 


r^^ 


id 


i 




r-i 


1—1 


C^ <^J C^ (M 


(M 


CM 


C^ 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


OO 


oi 




cj 






























lO 


1 


S. 


00 
00 


GO 00 OO GO 
oi d rH (M' 


00 

CO 


00 


OC 

id 


00 

d 


00 


OO 
GO 


OO GO 


00 


00 

CM 


00 
CO 


I-- 


o 


i-H 


I— 1 


rH (M (N (M 


SM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 


CO 


OO 


CO 


l>^ 


s 
































lO 




p. 
































































o 


o 


b- 


CO CO CO CO' 


CO 


CO 


CO 


:0 


^. 


CO 


CO CO 


p 


CO 


iq 


"^ 


o 


^ 


CO 


CO 


CO 


Ci <Z> r-i Oi 


CO 


-V 


id 


d 


t^ 


od 


^u 


I-H 


cm' 


CO 


■^ 


M) 


1 


rH 


I— I 


rH (M C^ <M 


C<l 


CM 


c^i 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 


CO 


OO 


CO 


t§ 


1 


o 


CO 


lO lO »o »o 


lO 


iq 


iq 


lO 


't 


-n 


-JH -H 


't 


-^. 


OO 


CM 


o 
CO 




<N 


00 


S^S^'Si 


CO 


-t^* 


lO 


d 


J>^ 


00 


oi d 


, J 


ci 


"O 


-^ 


a 

0) 

H 


i-H 


rH 


CN 


C<l 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


s 


a 
































H 




o 


iq 


TH •Tt^ Tj^ TJH 


■^ 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CM 


CM 


CM CM 


CM 


CM 


T—l 


o 


^ 






I-H 


00 


oi (d> tA ci 


CO 


'f 


id 


d 


t^ 


00 


^B 


r^ 


CM 


co' 


^ 






1-1 


I— i 


rH (M (M C<J 


C<) 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


00 


00 


OO 


OO 






o 


•rh 


CO CO CO CO 


CO 


CM 


C^l 


CM 


^ 


rH 


p o 


p 


o 


Oi 


00 


^ 




O 


CO 


rH ^ <M C^ 


CO' 


tH 


id 


d 


t-^ 


00 


§5^ 


r-i 


CM 


CM 


CO 






i-l 


rH 


<M 


CM 


C<| 


CM 


CM 


CM 


00 


OO 


OO 


OO 


g 






CO 


(M (M C<J C<J 


<M 


rH 


rH 


r-l 


o 


p 


GO 00 


00 


GO 


1-- 


CO 




C<1 




o 


CO 


oi d rH C^' 


co' 


'l^' 


id 


d 


t^ 


1^^ 


GO oi 


^ 


1-4 


CM 


CO 






rH 


rH C<J (N C<> 


(N 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM C^J 


CO 


00 


00 


^ 






=i 


rH ,-H >-l rH 


1—< 


O 


o 


o 


Oi 


OO 


t^ t^ 


CO 


p 


iq 


-fl 


^ 




2o 


00 


s ^ ?i ^' 


CO 


^ 


id 


d 


d 


t^ 


CO oi 


d 


,_) 


oi 


CO 


i 




t— 1 


(N 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM CM 


CO 


CO 


CO 


OO 


CO 


































rj< 






1— 1 


o o o o 


o 


Oi 


'^. 


Oi 


GO 


"tT 


CO CO 


iq 


'*. 


CO 


CM 


o 

q 




o 


00 


<^ <:S r-i oi 


CO 


00 


~r 


id 


d 


i^ 


^si 


o 


,—5 


CM 


OO 






T— 1 


rH (M (^^ (M 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


00 


CO 


CO 


CO 


■^ 

-«!*< 






r-^ 


O OJ 05 05 


Oi 


00 


GO 


GO 


1:^ 


p 


iq iq 


Tf 


CO 


CM 




00 




h 


00 


^ S a c^' 


oci 


CO 


-t^" 


id 


d 


f^ 


^^ 


d 


r-i 


cm' 


CO 








CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 


OO 


CO 


00 


CM 






1 


































Oi 


O I-H (N CO 


-^ 


lO 


CO 


t- 


00 


05 


O r-l 


CM 


CO 


-«!*< 










O 


I— 1 


(M cq (M <M 


oq 


<M 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 








■c 


q 


o o o o 


*=? 


o 


o 


q 


^ 


p 


o o 


o 


o 


o 


*^ 










































QQ 

































SPECIFIC GRAVITY DETERMINATION 205 





o 


CO 


00 


00 


Oi 


o: 


Oi 


Oi Oi o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


T-H 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


o 

o 


. 




52 


CO 


^ 


>o 


CD 


l^s,. 


CO 


CO CO CO 


CO 


-^ 


JO 


CD 


J,^ 


00 


Oi 


? 








Cl 


(M 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


OO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


"* 


s 






o 


O 


<:0 


CO 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ l>. CO 


CO 


00 


00 


00 


Oi 


05 


05 


CD 


a. 


1. 




Oi 

i-H 


S5 


c5 


-a 


^ 


1^ 

CO 


^ 


S ^ CO 


^ 


?? 


c^ 


^ 


^ 


CO 


^ 


^ 


^ 






o 


-^ 


^ 


■^ 


IC 


lO 


lO 


lO iC CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CD 


CD 


CO 


CO 


?. 




00 


CO 


^ 


»o 


CO 


r^ 


OO 


§1 M CO 


CO 


CO 


'^ 


JO 


CO 


r^ 


^ 


OS 


o 






i-H 


CM 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


Tt^ 


s 






O 


(M 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 00 -t 


Ttl 


'f 


■^ 


-f 


'* 


Ttl 


Tfl 


•^ 


^ 


^ 




t- 


CO 


TtH 


lO 


CO 


r^ 


00 


Ol o ^ 


CO 


OO 


-f 


lO 


CO 


t^ 


OO 


CD 


o 






i-H 


(N 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


s 






O 


T— 1 


1—1 


^ 


r— ( 


T-H 


I-H 


T-H ,-H CO 


CO 


C^l 


CO 


C^l 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


So 




«D 


CO 


'Th 


»o 


CO 


^ 


GO 


CO 00 00 


CO 


CO 


'f 


in 


CO 


1^ 


OO 


(T^ 


^ 






t-H 


(M 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


§ 






O 


O 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o o o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 

o 




lO 


CO 


"-h 


»o 


CO 


r^ 


00 


Oi O T-H 


CO 


00 


■^ 


in 


CO 


t^ 


T) 


^ 


o 








<M 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 




CO 


00 


CO 


rtH 


s 










































■(J 


do 


o 


Oi 


05 


OO 


00 


CO 


OO 


00 00 CO 


00 


00 


00 


00 


00 


CO 


00 


OO 


QC 


o 
05 




■* 


<M 


CO 


■^ 


»o 


CO 


r-- 


^^s 


T-H 


CO 


ro 


■^ 


m 


cp 


r^ 


on 


05 




CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


t^ 


** 




































lO 


u 








































•^ 


a; 






































O 


o 


CO 


t^ 


CD 


CO 


CO 


CD 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


'-O 


CD 


CD 


CO 


^ 


f^ 


03 


CO 


CO 


00 


Tfl 


lO 


CO 


1^ 


CO ^ ^ 


,__, 


CO 


CO 


-f 


lO 


CO 




GO 


Oi 




g^ 


rH 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


CO 


o-> 


lO 


s 


s 




































o 
CO 

s 


1 




o 


!>. 


<£l 


iC 


lO 


lO 


iC 


IC iC IC 


lO 


JO 


lO 


-* 


-^ 


■<*< 


^ 


•rt^ 


■^ 


i-H 


S^ 


^ 


^ 


s 


^ 


^ 


^^B 


s 


CO 

CO 


CO 
CO 


CO 


^ 


^ 


^ 


s 


^ 


a 








































o 


CO 


lO 


'^ 


'* 


TH 


Tj^ 


Tt^ '* -in 


rfi 


^ 


"* 


OO 


OO 


CO 


OO 


00 


Ol 


«? 






rH 


CO 


00 


'+I 


VO 


CO 


r- 


CO CO CO 


I-H 


CO 


CO 


'tl 


>n 


l-p 


t^ 


on 


05 






I-H 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


OO 


00 


CO 


OO 


iH 






O 


IC 


TlH 


CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


CO CO CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


G<1 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


tH 


?:> 




O 


CO 


CO 


■^ 


JO 


CO 


r^ 


^^B 


I-H 


CO 


CO 


^ 


m 


<"0 


r^ 


on 


Oi 






I-H 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


on 


o 








































lO 








Tfl 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


,_^ 


,_, 


,_, 


,_l 


o 


05 


o 




05 


CO 


CO 


Tt< 


lO 


CO 


t^ 


CO CO CO 


tH 


CO 


CO 


^ 


lO 


CO 




rri 


OO 






CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


OO 


OO 


s 






o 
00 


CO 


CO 


^ 


r-t 


1-H 


T-H 


I-H I-H ^H 


iH 


T-H 


^ 


o 


o 


o 


o 


Oi 


00 


^ 




CO 


CO 


rfi 


»o 


CO 


f^ 


^g^g 


r-l 


CO 


OO 


^ 


in 


CO 












CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


OO 


00 


CO 


OO 


^ 






o 


CO 


CO 


I— f 


^ 


rH 


1-H 


I-H O O 


o 


o 


o 


Oi 


Oi 


05 


a> 


00 


l^ 


?o 




CO 


CO 


■^ 


»o 


CO 


t^ 


co-^ w 


T-i 


CO 


CO 


CO 


"h 


in 


CO 


(^ 


CO 






CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


OO 


CO 


OO 


CO 


CO 


00 


CO 


^ 








CO 


CO 


I-H 


^ 


T-H 


I-H 


^ o o 


o 


o 


05 


CC 


00 


00 


00 


r^ 


CO 


So 




O 


i^ 


S5 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 

00 


CO 

00 


5? 


^ 


lO 
CO 


^ 


CO 


^ 






g 


CO <* 




CO 


t- 




OS O rH 


CO 


CO 




lO 


CO 


r- 


on 


m 










5 


<N 


CO 


c^ 


CO 


CO 


CO 


<M CO CO 


CO 


CTi 


CO 


eo 


CO 


CO 


en 


ro 


^ 








^ 


o 


o 


^^ 


o 


o 


o 


o o o 


o 


<z< 


Q 


C' 


o 


o 


o 


o 


Q 










t-H 


rH 


1-H 


rH 


tH 


iH 


rH rH tH 


tH 


tH 


rH 


iH 


tH 


tH 


iH 


iH 


tH 






c 


a 

c 







































206 



MILK HYGIENE 



in this arbitrary scale, which is very confusing. Un- 
fortunately, however, it has come into rather general 
use among milk inspectors, especially in the Eastern 
States. 

To convert readings of this lactometer into corre- 
sponding readings of the Quevenne scale, they must be 
multiplied by 0.29, or, the following table may be used : 

QUEVENNE LACTOMETER DEGREES CORRESPONDING 

TO NEW YORK BOARD OF HEALTH 

LACTOMETER DEGREES. 



Board of 
Health 
Degrees. 


Quevenne 
Scale. 


Board of 
Health 
Degrees. 


Quevenne 
Scale. 


Board of 
Health 
Degrees. 


Quevenne 
Scale. 


61 


17-7 


81 


23-5 


101 


29-3 


62 


18-0 


82 


23-8 


102 


29-6 


63 


18-3 


83 


24-1 


103 


29-9 


64 


]8-6 


84 


24-4 


104 


30-2 


65 


18-8 


85 


24-6 


105 


30-5 


66 


19-1 


86 


24-9 


106 


30-7 


67 


19-4 


87 


25-2 


107 


31-0 


68 


19-7 


88 


25-5 


108 


31-3 


69 


20-0 


89 


25-8 


109 


31-6 


70 


20-3 


90 


26-1 


110 


31-9 


71 


20-6 


91 


26-4 


111 


32-2 


72 


20-9 


92 


26-7 


112 


32-5 


73 


21-2 


93 


27-0 


113 


32-8 


74 


21-5 


94 


27-3 


114 


33-1 


75 


21-7 


95 


27-6 


115 


33-4 


76 


22-0 


96 


27-8 


116 


33-6 


77 


22-3 


97 


28-1 


117 


33-9 


78 


22-6 


98 


28-4 


118 


34-2 


79 


22-9 


99 


28-7 


119 


34-5 


80 


23-2 


100 


29-0 


120 


34-8 



L.R] 



Specific gravity of the whey. In many cases it is of 
value to determine the specific gravity of the whey be- 
cause this is much more constant than that of milk, 
for the reason that the lactose and salt vary less than 
the fat. 



SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF WHEY 207 

Lescoeur warms the milk to 45° C. (113° F.) and adds rennet; 
after about one-half hour the whey is pressed out and filtered, then 
it is cooled to exactly 15° C; the specific gravity may then vary 
between 1.029 and 1.031, but if water has been added it decreases 
significantly, as shown below: 

Whey of pure milk =1.0300 

Whey of milk + 10 per cent, water = 1.0275 

Whey of milk + 20 per cent, water = 1.0251 

Whey of milk + 30 per cent, water = 1.0230 

Reich recommends that 20 c.c. glacial acetic acid be added to 
500 c.c. milk, that the mixture be well shaken and heated for 
5 to 6 minutes to 60° to 65° C. (140° to 150° F.) in a closed flask, then 
cooled and filtered ; the filtrate is to be heated in a flask until the albu- 
min coagulates, then filtered again and the specific gravity determined 
after cooling to 15° C. According to his results, this varies between 
1.027 and 1.029; a specific gravity of 1.026 is always a sign of the 
addition of water. , 

If one wishes to apply the determination of specific 
gravity of whey to milk inspection, it is necessary to 
develop a definite method, which must be followed out 
exactly, for, otherwise, the result is uncertain; and be- 
fore basing a prosecution on the results of this method, 
one must have made careful comparisons, with the same 
method, of normal and watered milks. 

From investigations that were undertaken in Copen- 
hagen under Jensen's direction, it appears that these 
two methods do not give uniform results. From 35 
milk samples the following results were obtained: 

Rennet method Acid method 

Specific gravity Specific gravity 

7 samples 1.0270 to 1.0274 2 samples 1.0257 to 1.0259 

7 " 1.0275 to 1.0279 10 " 1.0260 to 1.0264 

15 " 1.0280 to 1.0284 15 " 1.0265 to 1.0269 

6 " 1.0285 to 1.0290 8 " 1.0270 to 1.0276 



208 MILK HYGIENE 

The addition of water causes a lower specific gravity 
of the whey. In the examination of adulterated 
skimmed milk, he found the figures to be 1.0256, 1.0246, 
1.0254 and 1.0257 (rennet method) and 1.0242, 1.0234, 
1.0238 and 1.0241 (acid method). 

e. The determination of the fat content of milk. There 
are many methods for determining the fat content of 
milk; some of these are too inexact to be considered 
{e.g. J the above mentioned transparency test by means 
of the lactoscope, and the like), others give very good 
results but require rather expensive apparatus, still 
others require exact weighings and work that can be 
done only in chemical laboratories. Some simple tests 
are, however, so accurate and so practical that they are 
available for the work of milk inspection. 

Among the methods used, besides the transparency 
test already mentioned, the creamometer should be 
named, that is, the measurement of the layer of cream 
which rises when the milk is allowed to stand. Since, 
however, the thickness of the layer of cream furnishes 
no reliable gauge as to the fat content, this method can- 
not be used if there is to be a prosecution. The separa- 
tion of the cream by a centrifuge of high velocity 
(Fjord's test), and subsequently measuring the layer of 
cream, gives better results and is often used in cream- 
eries for comparing milks. For general use, however, 
it is impractical, and not sufficiently accurate. 

The available methods are, principally, Soxhlet's 
method, which was formerly used to a greater extent 
than it is now; Gerber's method, [the Leffmann-Beam 
and the Babcock methods] and methods of chemical 
analysis. 

SoxMet^s method is founded upon the following prin- 
ciple : the solution of the fat in ether and the determina- 
tion of the specific gravity of this solution. 



GERBER'S FAT DETERMINATION 209 

The following- appliances are necessary for this examination (see 
Fig. 20): (1) three pipettes of 200, 60 and 10 c.c; (2) several 
half liter bottles; (3) two delicate areometers with thermometer, 
one for whole milk and the other for skimmed milk; (4) one large 
glass tube (A) adjusted for flowing water; (5) a smaller glass 
tube (B) enclosed in A; (6) a rubber bulb with a tube; (7) a larger 
container filled w4th water heated to 17° to 18° C. Besides these, the 
following chemicals are necessary: (8) potassium hydroxide solution 
of specific gravity 1.27 (400 gr. potassium hydroxide is dissolved in 
water and after the solution has cooled it is made up to 1 liter) ; (9) 
ether, shaken with one-fifth its volume of water and decanted off; 
(10) ordinary ether. 

The milk to be examined is warmed in a water bath to 18° C. and 
is well shaken. By means of a pipette, 200 c.c. of this are drawn 
off and mixed in a bottle with 10 c.c. of the potassium hydroxide 
solution. Then, 60 c.c. of ether are added. The bottle is immediately 
closed by a perfectly tight stopper, is violently shaken and allowed to 
stand one-fourth hour in water at 18° C, during which time it must be 
shaken frequently. Gradually, the ether dissolves the fat and a 
transparent layer is formed on the surface. Now the stopper of 
the bottle is replaced by another (D) and, by means of a bulb, the 
transparent fat-containing ether is driven up into the tube B which is 
surrounded in tube A by water warmed to 18° C. The areometer 
(C) is in the inner tube, and after the fluid rises so high that it 
can float, the flow is checked by means of a valve q, then the 
specific gravity is read. The quantity of fat dissolved is shown, and 
from this the fat content of the milk can be calculated. Soxhlet's 
apparatus is accompanied by tables from which the fat content of the 
milk can easily be read, if one has determined the specific gravity 
of the fat-ether, and has read its temperature. 

Gerher's acidobutyrometer affords a very convenient 
and accurate way of determining fat, that is widely 
used. The method consists in measuring the quantity 
of fat in an accurately measured quantity of milk, after 
the fat has been separated and dissolved in amyl-alco- 
hol. Gerher's instrument (see figs. 21 and 22), consists 
of a centrifuge, bottles (G) of special shape, and 3 
pipettes, i.e. : 1 acid pipette to hold 10 c.c.(H) and 2 small 
pipettes (I, K) of 1 and 11 c.c. capacity. These cliem- 

14 



210 



MILK HYGIENE 



icals are required: crude sulphuric acid of a specific 
gravity at 15° C. (60° F.) of 1.825, and amyl-alcohol. 
The examination is made in the following way: 10 c.c. 



Fig. 20. 




Soxhlet's apparatus for fat-determination. 



of sulphuric acid are measured out by the acid pipette, 
this is permitted to flow slowly into the bottle G; 1 c.c. 
of amyl-alcohol is measured and poured carefully into 



GERBER'S FAT DETERMINATION 211 

the glass so that it forms a layer upon the surface of 
the sulphuric acid. Now, exactly 11 c.c. of well mixed 
milk that has been heated to 15° C. (60° F.) are measured 
and poured into the bottle, which is closed by a rubber 
stopper and then it is well shaken. The milk dissolves 
with the generation of considerable heat. The stopper 
is driven in so far that in the inverted bottle, the fluid 

Fig. 21. 




Gerber's apparatus for fat-determination. 

reaches the mark on the scale ; the bottle is put into the 
centrifuge and this is set in motion, after it has been 
well balanced. If the sample is not to be centrifuged at 
once, the bottle should be placed in a water bath at 60° 
to 65° C. (140° to 150° F.). The process of centrifuging 
lasts 10 minutes with such a machine as shown in figure 
21 ; and in order to keep up speed it is necessary to ac- 



212 



MILK HYGIENE 



celerate the motion three times, by drawing the strap. 
[With some patterns of centrifuge, those that have a 
velocity of 800 to 1000 per minute, the whirling is com- 
pleted in 3 to 4 minutes.] After centrifuging, the bottle 
is taken out and placed in a water bath at 60° C. (140° 
F.). The fat forms a clear layer in the top of the tube. 
Through shifting the stopper, the lower border of the 



Fig. 22. 




Test bottles and pipettes used in connection with Gerber s method for fat-determination. 



fat layer can be brought into the same plane with one of 
the division lines and the thickness of the layer of fat 
can be read off. One should read from the lower part 
of the curved upper line. The upper, narrow part of 
the tube is divided in 90 parts, each line corresponds to 
0.1 per cent, fat; for example, if the fat layer reaches 
line 35, then the fat content of the milk is 3.5 per cent. 



LEFFMANN'S FAT DETERMINATION 213 

[The Leffmann-Beam method (sometimes, improp- 
erly, called the Beimling test) was worked out in ad- 
vance of the Gerber test, which resembles it. The fol- 
lowing description is from Leffmann :^^ '' The dis- 
tinctive feature is the use of fusel oil, the effect of which 
is to produce a greater difference in surface tension 
between the fat and the liquid in which it is suspended, 
and thus promote its readier separation. This effect 
has been found to be heightened by the presence of a 
small amount of hydrochloric acid. 

'' The test bottles have a capacity of about 30 c.c. 
and are provided with a graduated neck, each division 
of which represents 0.1 per cent., by weight, of butter 
fat. 

' ' Fifteen c.c. of the milk are measured into the bot- 
tle, 3 c.c. of a mixture of equal parts of amyl-alcohol 
and strong hydrochloric acid added, mixed, the bottle 
filled nearly to the neck with concentrated sulphuric acid, 
and the liquids mixed by holding the bottle by the neck 
and giving it a gyratory motion. The neck is now filled 
to about the zero point with a mixture of sulphuric acid 
and water prepared at the time. It is then placed in 
the centrifugal machine, which is so arranged that when 
at rest the bottles are in a vertical position. If only one 
test is to be made, the equilibrium of the machine is 
maintained by means of a test bottle, or bottles, filled 
with a mixture of equal parts of sulphuric acid and 
water. After rotation for from one to two minutes, the 
fat will collect in the neck of the bottle and the percent- 
age may be read off. It is convenient to use a pair of 
dividers in making the reading. The legs of these are 
placed at the upper and lower limits respectively of the 
fat, allowance being made for the meniscus; one leg is 

^^ Henry Leffmann, Analysis of Milk and Milk Products. Phila- 
delphia, 1905. 



214 MILK HYGIENE 

then placed at the zero point and the reading made with 
the other. Experience by analysts in various parts of 
the world has shown that with properly graduated 
bottles the results are reliable. As a rule, they do not 
differ more than 0.1 per cent, from those obtained by 
the Adam's process, and are generally even closer. 

^^ The mixture of fusel oil and hydrochloric acid 
seems to become less satisfactory when long kept. It 
should be clear and not very dark in color. It is best 
kept in a bottle provided with a pipette, which can be 
filled to the mark by dipping. Rigid accuracy in the 
measurement is not needed. ' ' 

The Bahcoch method or '' test '' is, in America, by 
far the best known and most used centrifugal test for fat 
in milk. The Letfmann-Beam and the Gerber tests are, 
however, being used more and more, on account of the 
shorter time required. 

In careful hands, the Babcock test is very accurate. 
Small or large outfits, the centrifuges to be driven by 
hand or power, may be purchased from any dairy sup- 
ply establishment. The test is made by placing in the 
special test bottle 18 grams (17.6 c.c.) of milk. To this 
is added, from a pipette, burette or measuring bottle, 
17.5 c.c. commercial sulphuric acid of a specific gravity 
of 1.82 to 1.83. The contents of the bottle are carefully 
and thoroughly mixed by a rotary motion. The mixture 
becomes brown and heat is generated. The test bottle is 
now placed in a properly balanced centrifuge and 
whirled for five minutes at a speed of from 800 to 1200 
revolutions per minute. Hot water is then added to fill 
the bottle to the lower part of the neck, after which it 
is again whirled for two minutes. Now, enough hot 
water is added to float the column of fat into the grad- 
uated portion of the neck of the bottle, and the whirling 
is repeated for a minute. 



BABCOCK'S FAT DETERMINATION 215 

The amount of fat is read while the neck of the bottle 
is still hot. The reading is from the upper limits of the 
mensicus instead of the lower, as with the Gerber and 
the Leffmann-Beam tests. A pair of calipers is of as- 
sistance in measuring the column of fat. L. P.] 

The chemical methods consist in accurately weighing 
the fat separated from a definite quantity of milk. The 

Fig. 23. 




One form of Babcock's apparatus for fat-determination* 

most exact result is gained by the evaporation of a defi- 
nite amount of milk (see below) and by the extraction 
of the fat from the evaporated mass by ether or benzine, 
which is then evaporated. Quite accurate results are 
also gained without evaporating the milk, by separating 



* From " Principles and Practice of Butter-Making," by McKay 
Larsen, by permission of Messrs. John Wiley & Sons, the 



and 
publishers. 



216 MILK HYGIENE 

the fats from the other ingredients and ascertaining 
their weight. 

Gottleib's metJiod gives results sufficiently accurate for our use. 
For this method one requires, as apparatus, only a cylinder of 40 c.c. 
capacity, divided to measure quantities of 0.5 c.c, some glass flasks 
and a long, thin glass syphon. 10 grm. of milk are accurately weighed 
into one of the small flasks and poured into the glass cylinder; the 
amount of milk left adhering to the walls of the flask is determined 
by a second weighing, so that one may know exactly how much 
has been poured into the cylinder. 1 c.c. of 10 per cent, ammonia 
water (specific gravity 0.96) is mixed with the milk and shaken, 
then 10 c.c. alcohol (95 per cent.) are added and it is shaken again, 
after which 25 c.c. ether are added. The cylinder is well closed with 
a cork that has been moistened in water, and shaken hard. 25 c.c. 
petroleum benzine are added and, after repeated shaking, the bottle 
should be allowed tx) stand undisturbed at least 6 hours. By that 
time, the fluid is separated into two sharply marked layers; the 
upper one is the ether-benzine-fat mixture, the under one contains 
the water, the lactose and proteids; a whitish sediment consists of 
phosphates. The volume of the upper layer of the fluid is read off 
and a determined quantity of it is syphoned off into a small weighed 
flask. The ether and benzine are now evaporated by mild heat. 
Thereupon, the flask is allowed to stand a couple of hours in a drying 
chamber at 100° C, is cooled in an exsiccator and, finally, weighed. 
From the total volume of the mixture of ether, benzine and fat, 
and from the quantity of fat in the portion evaporated, the weight of 
the total fat content of the milk sample can be calculated, and thus 
the percentage is determined. 

/. Determination of the total solids in milk. The total 
solids in milk are determined chemically in the following 
way : Exactly 10 c.c. of milk are measured into a plat- 
inum or porcelain vessel, the weight of which is already 
known; the vessel is heated in a water bath to 100° C. 
until all the water is evaporated. After cooling in an 
exsiccator, the vessel and its .contents are weighed. The 
difference between the weight found and the original 
weight of the dish gives the total amount of solids in 
the milk. If the amount of fat, found in another way, is 



DETERMINATION OF SOLIDS 217 

subtracted, one gets the quantity of solids not fat. By 
incinerating tlie contents of the vessel, in a muffle oven, 
and again weighing, the amount of salts, or ash, is deter- 
mined. If it is desired to extract the fat from the other 
solids, to determine the fat percentage, it is necessary 
before drying the milk to mix with it a weighed quantity 
of roasted pumice stone ; then, after evaporation, the fat 
is removed by means of ether (or benzine) in an ordi- 
nary fat extraction apparatus, and is determined by 
weighing, after evaporating the ether. This work is 
quite particular and requires a well appointed labora- 
tory. Moreover, in practical milk control, gravimetric 
analyses are not indispensable, for one can easily cal- 
culate the quantity of solids from the specific gravity 
and the fat, according to the formula derived by Fleisch- 
mann. If total solids are represented by t, the fat per 
cent, by f and the specific gravity by s, one has : 

t= :.2 X f 4- 2.665 X ^^^J^^ 

That is, if we say f = 3.55 and s = 1.0327, we get 

Another formula proposed by Bertschinger gives quite 
accurate results : 

Moreover, tables have been worked out from which 
the total solids can be read otf , if both the other factors 
are known. Ackermann has constructed an ^ ^ automatic 
reckoner " from which one can read off one of the fac- 
tors when both of the others are known, by simply turn- 
ing circular discs. [Richmond has devised a sliding rule 
for the same purpose.] 

The computation of the solids not fat is very easy. 



218 MILK HYGIENE 

One has only to subtract the fat percentage found from 
the computed percentage of total solids. The percent- 
age of fat (p) in the total solids is easily computed 
according to the formula: 

p = ^ X 100 

To use the above illustration : 

Likewise, it is quite easy to determine the specific 
gravity (m) of the dry milk solids by a simple computa- 
tion, according to this formula : 

St 



St — (100s — 100) 

Using the same illustration again: 

1.0327 X 12.697 _ 13.112 _ 

^ ~ 1.0327 X 12.697 — (103.27 — 100) ~ 13.112 — 3.27 ~ 

The specific gravity of the dry solids of whole milk 
varies, according to the fat content, between about 1.31 
and 1.36. 

V. ADULTERATION AND ITS DETECTION. 

The most frequent adulterations of whole milk con- 
sist in partial skimming, dilution with skimmed milk, 
dilution with water or a combination of these. Skimmed 
milk is adulterated by the addition of water, and cream 
by starch, flour, etc. 

a. Partial skimming of whole milk or dilution with 
skimmed milk produce the same result; in both cases 
the fat content is lessened, while the percentage of solids 
not fat is increased very slightly, and the specific gravity 
is increased. If the skimming is not so great as to cause 
the fat percentage to fall below the minimum limit for 



DETECTION OF ADULTERATION 219 

mixed milk and the specific gravity to rise above its 
maximmn (1.034), this adulteration is difficult to dis- 
cover, as the considerable variations in normal milk 
would lead one to expect. It is in these cases that com- 
parison was formerly made with the stable or herd sam- 
ples, but, as stated before, these are worth but little in 
relation to small herds, and even in the case of large 
ones they are not entirely trustworthy. When it is pos- 
sible to compare the figures of inspected milk with the 
results of the herd test, an opinion can be formed as to 
how great a percentage of the fat content is lacking, 
from this formula : 

F— f 

X = 100 X ^^ 

r 

in which F shows the fat percentage in the herd sample 
and f the fat percentage of the sample under suspicion. 

Where there is reason for suspicion, the best method 
for proving the existence of such adulteration is, 
in many cases, furnished by the judicial hearing of the 
persons charged, and the witnesses. In many places, as 
has already been stated, to prevent such adulterations a 
minimum standard has been established for the fat con- 
tent of whole milk. 

[In America, where there are legal standards calling 
for 3 to 3.5 per cent, of fat in whole milk, prosecutions 
for partial skimming or dilution with skimmed milk are 
not often brought if the sample comes up to this estab- 
lished standard, although such adulteration may be 
suspected from a marked disproportion between the 
fat and the solids not fat. But this proportion is, at 
best, so variable that it furnishes no definite guide. 
L.P.] 

b. The dilution of whole milk with water causes an 
increase of volume and, therefore, a decrease in the per- 
centage of fat, of solids and of the specific gravity of the 



220 MILK HYGIENE 

milk, as well as of the whey. Feser gives the following 
example : 

Start with 9 liters of milk of the composition : 3.95 
per cent., fat ; 8.9 per cent., solids not fat ; 1.031, specific 
gravity. 

To this add 1 liter of water of this composition : per 
cent., fat; per cent., solids not fat; 1.000, specific 
gravity. 

This gives 10 liters of adulterated milk of the com- 
position: 3.55 per cent., fat; about 8.0 per cent., solids 
not fat ; 1.028, specific gravity. 

Further evidence of this adulteration is found in the 
lower specific gravity of the whey and in the fact that 
the specific gravity of the dry solids (m) and the fat 
content (p) of the solids are, practically, normal; in the 
above example, then : ^^ 



M = 



ST 1.031 X 12.85 


-l^^^- 


ST - (lOOS - 100) 1.031 X 12.85 - (100 X 1.031 - 100) 


St 1.028 X 11.55 


-^ — 


St — (100s — 100) 1.028 X 11.55 — (100 X 1.028 — 100) 


P=Z-X100 ^1^x100 = 30.738 




p = A X 100 = —^ X 100 = 30.736 





If milk samples are available which may be justly com- 
pared with the milk under suspicion (herd samples 
taken under fixed conditions ; milk from the same large 
herd; other milk sent by the same shipper or from the 
same can in the dealer's possession), then the percent- 
age of water added can be computed according to Vo- 
gel 's formula : 

x-^^X 100^100 

^* [M and P represent the specific gravity of the total solids and 
the percentage of fat in the total solids of whole milk, and m and 
p the same factors in adulterated milk.] 



DETECTION OF ADULTERATION 221 

In the example just given we have F = 3.95 and f 
= 3.55, then 

X = I'S X 100 ^ 100 ^ 11.11% 
6.00 



that is, exactly 1 part to 9 parts. On account of the 
great variations in the percentage of fat, one must be 
very careful with this computation. 

In detecting this adulteration, the herd sample is of 
some value, since the solids not fat are subject only to 
slight variations. In drawing conclusions, therefore, 
these other factors must have full consideration (esti- 
mated solids not fat, specific gravity of the whey), and 
are of more value as a guide than the percentage of fat. 

[The percentage of solids not fat should not be less 
than 8.5 or 9. The percentage of ash is of considerable 
value in detecting adulteration by adding water. This 
factor is rather constant, and in pure milk is usually 
between 0.70 and 0.75 per cent. L.P.] 

It has been suggested that use be made of the deter- 
mining of the freezing point of milk and of its conducti- 
bility for electricity, since these qualities are consid- 
erably changed by the addition of water. But these 
methods are not yet sufficiently developed to be avail- 
able. On the other hand, there may be some advantage 
in determining the acidity of the milk, since this is less- 
ened by dilution (see page 227), yet the lessened acidity 
may come from other causes. 

The addition of lactose or cane sugar to milk diluted 
with water, renders judgment more difficult, since, by 
this means, the specific gravity of the milk as well as 
that of the whey, and also the amount of solids not fat, 
is increased. 

While milk is always free of nitrates and nitrites, 
even if the animals have taken such substances with 



222 MILK HYGIENE 

their food, these are frequently present in water in small 
quantity. The presence of nitrates or nitrites in the 
milk, therefore, shows, with certainty, that water has 
been added. However, the lack of nitrates does not ex- 
clude this, as all water does not contain nitrates. Even 
a very small quantity of nitrates and nitrites can be 
detected as follows : 

1.5 c.e. of a 20 per cent, calcium chloride solution is added to 
100 c.c. of milk; the mixture is boiled and filtered. A little of the 
filtrate is mixed with enough of a 2 per cent, solution of diphenylamin 
in sulphuric acid to make it milky; a little concentrated sulphuric acid 
is poured into a test tube and the mixture is added slowly, so that 
the fluids do not mix; if nitric acid or nitrous acid is present, a blue 
zone is formed at the plane of contact. (Soxhlet.) 

[A simpler test for nitrates is that devised by Richmond. The 
following description of this test is from Farrington and WoU.^^ 
" Place a small quantity of diphenylamin at the bottom of a porcelain 
dish, and add to it about 1 c.c. of pure, concentrated sulphuric acid; 
allow a few drops of the milk serum (obtained by adding a little 
acetic acid to the milk and warming) to flow down the sides of 
the dish and over the surface of the acid. If a blue color develops in 
the course of ten minutes, though it may be faint, it shows the 
presence of nitrates, after ten minutes a reddish-brown color is 
always developed from the action of the acid on the serum. There 
should be no difficulty in detecting an addition of 10 per cent, of 
water to the milk by this test, if the water added contained 5 parts 
of nitric acid, or more, per 100,000." L. P.] 

c. The skimming of whole milk in conjunction with 
the addition of water, or the addition of skimmed milk 
as well as water, are common methods of adulteration. 
It is easily understood that the fat content is consid- 
erably lessened in this way, and that also the solids not 
fat decrease; it is evident, besides, that the percentage 
of solids not fat (p) is lessened and, consequently, the 

55 Farrington and Woll. Testing Milk and its Products, 13th 
edition. Madison, 1904. 



DETECTION OF ADULTERATION 223 

specific gravity of the solids (m) must be increased. The 
specific gravity of adulterated milk can vary consider- 
ably, often it is nearly normal, but frequently it is 
slightly diminished. Feser has given the following ex- 
ample of such adulteration : 

The unadulterated milk had 3.95 per cent., fat; 8.9 
per cent., solids not fat; 1.031 specific gravity; by par- 
tial skimming, it was changed to 2.19 per cent., fat; 
about 8.9 per cent., solids not fat ; 1.034, specific gravity ; 
by the addition of water it was further changed to 1.21 
per cent., fat; about 8 per cent., fat free solids; 1.0305, 
specific gravity. 

Decisive points for determining if such adulterations 
exist are the low solid contents, the low fat per cent., 
the almost normal specific gravity of the milk, the in- 
creased specific gravity of the solids (m) which, in the 
above example, was changed from 1.305 to 1.473, and in 
the low specific gravity of the whey. If nitrates are 
proven in the milk there is further support for the con- 
clusion that it is watered. 

When a sample of adulterated milk can fairly be 
compared with another which is known to be unadulter- 
ated (samples taken from the same dealer the same day, 
milk of a large herd, etc.) [or with an accepted stand- 
ard] one can form an opinion of the extent of the 
adulteration by means of a formula derived from Bohm- 
lander : 

M = -? X w — w 

r 



E=- 100 



(■-g) 



M shows the quantity of water added to 100 grm. of 
milk; W is the per cent, of water in the unadulterated 
and w in the adulterated, or suspected, sample ; R and r 
are the percentages in these two samples of solids not 



224 



MILK HYGIENE 



fat; E represents the percentages of fat removed by 
skimming, while F and f show the i)ercentage of fat in 
the two samples. 

In the above case one could find by computation : 

M = ?^ X 90.79 -T- 87.15 = 1.112 X 90.79 — 87.15 ^^ 13.81 



E =100 



(i _ 1-2AX J.9\ ^_ ^^Q A _ ia77\ 
V 3.95 X 8 / V 31-60/ 



-^'^ 66 



Or, in other words, about 14 grm. of water are added 
to each 100 grm. of milk and about 66 grm. of fat have 
been taken from each 100 grm. of fat. 

The effects of the various adulterations may be 
shown in tabular form as follows :* 









o 


■zi 


vity 
Ik 

of 
total 


"o 






Is 

'|-s 


II 

CO 


1' 


II 


11 
1=1 

CO 




t. 


o8a5 

HI 


f 


1.029 to 
















Normal milk 


1.034 
aver. 
1.032 


1.029 to 
1.031 


3 to 5 


8.5 to 
10.5 


1.30 to 
1.34 


20 to 
34 


0.7 to 
0.75 





Skimmed or diluted ( 




no 
change 




very 










with skimmed milk < 


higher 


lower 


slightly 
higher 


higher 


lower 


higher 





Water added | 


lower 


lower 


lower 


lower 


no 
change 


no 
change 


lower 


+ orO 


Skimmed and 
water added i 


little 
change 
















lower 


lower 


lower 


higher 


lower 


lower 


+ orO 



Although each form of adulteration has its own char- 
acteristics yet, in practice, it is often very hard to deter- 
mine whether a slight adulteration has occurred, be- 
cause the composition of milk, as explained above, dif- 
fers so much physiologically — and with the same animal 
from day to day. Unless there is a distinct departure 
from the normal, one should be careful in expressing 
his opinion, especially if he does not know the herd con- 



*This table is changed somewhat from the one prepared by Jensen [L. P.] 



DETECTION OF ADULTERATION 225 

cerned. Usually, the presence of nitrates is positive, 
still it must not be forgotten that when the milk can is 
rinsed a little water may be left, which, if it is rich in 
nitrates, may cause the milk to show a slight reaction, 
so that it might appear that water has been intentionally 
added. Usually water does not contain such a quantity 
of nitrates as to cause a suspicious reaction when the 
milk has not really been adulterated. 

d. Adulteration of partly skimmed and skimmed 
milk. In most cities no minimum limit is fixed for the 
fat content of the half skimmed and the skimmed milk, 
and the only form of adulteration to be considered in 
this connection is the addition of water. This causes a 
lowering of the specific gravity of the milk (from 1.030 
to 1.036 to from 1.032 to 1.040) and whey, as well as a 
diminution in the amount of solids. A possible trace of 
nitrates proves that the milk has been watered. In 
cities, in which the minimum limit of fat content for 
partially skimmed milk or skimmed milk has been es- 
tablished, the milk is, of course, considered adulterated 
when it falls below this standard. [In some places there 
is a standard of 9.25 per cent, total solids for skimmed 
milk as provided by the U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture.] 

e. Adulteration of cream. Cream is sold in different 
forms, with fat content varying between about 10 per 
cent, and 30 per cent. (40 per cent.). In some cities, the 
minimum content of different grades is defined, so in 
such cases public control must be extended to determin- 
ing the amount of fat in cream. Of the different adul- 
terations, the addition of starch and flour are to be 
mentioned particularly. This is done to make the cream 
thicker and to give it the appearance of being better 
than it really is. In raw cream, the proof by micro- 
scopic examination is simple, as the starch grains are 

15 



226 MILK HYGIENE 

shown as irregular, round concentrically formed bodies. 
Amyloid bodies have been found in milk by Herz ; these 
are like similar bodies previously found in the pros- 
tates, and somewhat resemble starch grains, but are 
hardly to be found in such great quantity that, in prac- 
tice, they have any influence on this examination. After 
the cream is boiled, the starch grains burst, and cannot 
be recognized under the microscope. In this case, the 
chemical test must be applied, which may be used with 
raw cream also. The simple addition of a diluted solu- 
tion of iodine, in many cases, gives the milk the well- 
known blue color; it is better, however, to add a little 
acetic acid, boil and filter and apply the iodine test to 
the filtrate. [The presence of '^viscogen" is indicated 
by the greater percentage of ash.] 

The detection of other foreign substances, as white 
earth, emulsion of brain substance, etc., is best made by 
means of microscopic examination. 

VI. PUBLIC SUPERVISION TO PREVENT THE SALE OF 
DETERIORATED MILK 

The public should not only make and enforce regula- 
tions regarding the production and handling of milk to 
prevent adulteration, but it should make regulations to 
prevent milk being sold in a damaged or spoiled con- 
dition and, by frequent inspection, these regulations 
should be enforced. The milk samples that are taken 
must not only be used for the purpose of determining 
possible falsification but, at the same time, they should 
be subjected to a number of other examinations. 

a. Determination of the appearance, odor and taste. All 
milk differing from normal in color or appearance (mix- 
ture of blood or exudate, abnormal secretion, secretion 
of coloring matter, bacterial alterations), or by odor or 
taste (abnormal composition, the excretion of odorifer- 



DETECTION OF DETERIORATION 227 

ous substances, absorption of strongly odorous matter, 
addition of foreign matter, bitter, stale, sour, microbic 
changes) must not be sold and should be condemned. 

b. Determination of the reaction. This may be done by 
using red and blue litmus paper. Normal, quite fresh 
milk has an amphoteric reaction. If the test shows ex- 
cessive alkaline or acid reaction, it should be examined 
more closely. An alkaline reaction is frequently shown 
in the milk of old milking cows; mixed milk, on the 
contrary, is never alkaline. Sometimes an alkali is 
added; if so, it can be proven by the test previously 
mentioned, or, quite easily, by titrating with tenth- 
normal sodium hydrate solution, with which phenol- 
phthalin is used as indicator. Normal milk shows an 
acid reaction to phenolphthalin, so that from 18 to 19 
c.c. of tenth-normal sodium hydrate solution must be 
added to 100 c.c. of milk to make the red color appear; 
if the milk becomes red at once when phenolphthalin is 
added, then it is abnormally alkaline and, as a rule, alkali 
has been added ; if a smaller quantity of sodium hydrate 
solution is necessary, the milk may either have been 
treated with alkali or diluted with water. 

If the litmus paper indicates an acid reaction, the 
degree of acidity of the milk may be determined by 
means of titrating with tenth-normal solution of so- 
dium hydrate, using phenolphthalin as indicator. If, to 
neutralize 100 c.c, requires more than 18 to 19 c.c. of 
tenth-normal sodium hydrate solution, then the for- 
mation of lactic acid has commenced, and its extent can 
be measured exactly by determining the amount of 
standard alkali required to neutralize it. 

For titrating, an ordinary burette is used with a scale 
divided into spaces showing 0.1 c.c. After the addition 
of about 0.25 c.c. phenolphthalin solution to the milk, the 
standard sodium solution is dropped in, little by little, 



228 MILK HYGIENE 

until, after thorough shaking, the milk becomes faintly 
reddish. Then the exact amount of solution that has 
been used for neutralization is read off, and the degree 
of acidity determined. If one has to make many titra- 
tions it is most convenient to use a burette with a supply 
from a larger tank; such a titrating apparatus can be 
procured from any dealer in chemical apparatus. 

[A rapid method for determining the acidity of milk 
has been devised, which depends on the use of an accu- 
rately measured amount of alkali dispensed in the form 
of a tablet. This makes it possible to quickly prepare a 
standard solution, and the method is very useful for in- 
spections in the field. If the indicator, phenolphthalin, 
is included in the tablet, the test is still more convenient. 
It is made as follows : 

Tablets are dissolved in a measured quantity of dis- 
tilled water, sufficient to give a solution of standard 
strength (usually five tablets make 100 c.c. of solution, 
but this varies with the brand of tablet and the manu- 
facturer's instructions must be observed) 18 grm. (17.6 
c.c, being measured in the pipette used for the Babcock 
test) of milk are measured into a white porcelain cup 
and the alkali solution is added from a measure (burette 
or graduated cylinder) until the pink color becomes 
permanent. The amount of solution used shows the 
percentage of acid in the sample. 

If a standard of 0.2 per cent, lactic acid has been 
adopted, then the amount of alkali solution required to 
show any excess above this limit may be placed directly 
in the cup and the measured sample of milk added to it. 
If the pink color remains, there is less than 0.2 per cent, 
of acid in the sample; if it disappears, there is more 
than 0.2 per cent, of acid. L. P.] 

Only a few German regulations give a standard for 
the acid permitted in market milk. Sometimes, the 



THE FERMENTATION TEST 229 

requirement is made that the milk shall withstand the 
test of boiling it in a test tube without the separation of 
flakes or curds, and be able to withstand the, so-called, 
alcohol test, which is made as follows : ^^ 

Exactly equal parts of milk and alcohol (68 per cent.) 
are carefully mixed in a tube and observed closely. 
Fresh milk shows no precipitation ; in that which is be- 
ginning to sour, fine flocules are deposited on the walls 
of the glass and, with greater acidity, flakes and lumps 
are separated. 

c. The fermentation test is used to show whether there 
is an excess of bacteria of putrefaction in the milk. It 
consists simply in incubating a sample of milk at body 
temperature for 8 to 16 hours, followed by an examina- 
tion as to its appearance, odor and flavor. The examina- 
tion is easily made as follows: Into large test tubes 
holding at least 25 c.c, that have been carefully cleaned 
and sterilized, the milk samples, warmed to about 36° C. 
(97° F.), are poured. The tubes are closed by cotton 
and placed in an incubator or closet, where they are kept 
at 30° to 35° C. (86° to 95° F.). In the course of eight 
or ten hours, and again later, the contents of the tubes 
are examined. Good, undeteriorated milk is then sour 
and curdled and forms a homogeneous coagulum, without 
much separation of whey or formation of gas. Fre- 
quently, gas bubbles have split the coagulum and con- 
siderable fluid has separated. This change, however, 
does not necessarily signify that the milk was particu- 
larly rich in bacteria of putrefaction. On the other 
hand, if the milk curdles and has an offensive odor, or 

^•'As a result of boiling, separation occurs not only where the 
milk has reached a certain degree of acidity but also in cases where, 
as a result of disease of the cow, abnormally large quantities of 
albumin and of globulin are present, or when there is admixture of 
colostrum. 



230 MILK HYGIENE 

if the coagulum is beginning to dissolve, or if the milk 
remains in a fluid state but has a bad odor and taste, 
these are signs that the milk is contaminated with bac- 
teria of putrefaction. In the application of this test, it 
is important not to allow the milk sample to stand too 
long before the examination is begun, and precautions 
must be taken to prevent contamination while gathering 
the sample and during the test. 

In pasteurized milk, the fermentation test may give 
general information concerning the bacterial content, 
through noting the time that passes until appreciable 
changes take place. Usually such milk does not 
^ ^ sour. ' ' But no precipitate conclusion should be drawn 
from the results of this test. 

By boiling the milk for a short time and then incu- 
bating the samples, a serviceable guide can be obtained 
concerning the quantity of the spore bearing bacteria 
in the milk. These will survive the heating, and, as they 
are not checked in their growth by the lactic acid form- 
ing bacteria, they increase rapidly and cause the milk to 
curdle, by the action of ferments. 

[Eussell ^^ describes a curd fermentation test used by 
cheese makers, as follows: *^ When the milk is 95° F., 
about 10 drops of rennet extract are added to each sam- 
ple and mixed thoroughly with the milk. The jar should 
then remain undisturbed until the milk is completely 
curdled; then the curd is cut into small pieces with a 
case knife and stirred, to expel the whey. The whey 
should be poured off at frequent intervals until the curd 
mats. If the sample be kept at blood heat (98° F.), for 
six to eight hours, it will be ready to examine. 

^^ The curd from a good milk has a firm, solid tex- 

"^^ H. L. Russell, Dairy Bacteriology, Sixth Edition. Madison, 
1905. 



BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIOISTS 231 

ture, and should contain at most only a few small ' pin ' 
holes. It may have some large, irregular ^ mechan- 
ical ' holes where the curd particles have failed to ce- 
ment. If gas-producing bacteria are very prevalent in 
the milk, the conditions under which the test is made 
cause such a rapid growth of the same that the evidence 
of the abnormal fermentation may be readily seen in the 
spongy texture of the curd. If the undesirable organ- 
isms are not very abundant and the conditions are not 
especially suited to their growth, the ' pin ' holes will 
be less frequent. 

^^ Sometimes the curds show no evidence of gas, but 
their abnormal condition may be recognized by the 
^ mushy ' texture and the presence of ' off ' flavors, 
that are rendered more apparent by keeping them in 
closed bottles. This condition is abnormal and is apt to 
produce quite as serious results as if gas was formed.'' 

Curd fermentation tests have been suggested for use 
in connection with the supervision of market milk, and 
C. E. Marshall has made some observations that tend 
to show their usefulness for this purpose. L. P.] 

To make regulations in relation to the behavior of 
milk to these tests would be premature. The general 
requirement that market milk, and especially infants' 
milk, shall not be rich in bacteria of putrefaction is suf- 
ficient for the present. 

d. Bacteriological examinations are made when more 
information is desired regarding the number and kind of 
bacteria in milk. As has been said, this differs greatly, 
even in freshly drawn milk, and it is scarcely possible 
to state a passing average for the bacterial content of 
market milk. Nor does it seem to be possible to estab- 
lish a maximum by ordinance, the violation of which 
would lead to the condemnation of the milk. Yet, it is 
of importance to health officers to have an examination 
made of the number of bacteria in milk sold, since, by 



232 MILK HYGIENE 

so doing, an opinion can be formed as to the genuine- 
ness of the claims of the milk companies, as well as the 
cleanliness and care with which the milk has been han- 
dled from the time it was drawn until it was sold. There 
are special reasons for making regular bacteriological 
examinations of nursery milk; it must be required not 
only that this shall come from healthy animals and not 
be exposed to infection with pathogenic bacteria, but, 
at the same time, it is well to require that it shall not 
contain an excess of bacteria at the time it is delivered 
to customers. In this connection, it would be very ad- 
vantageous to make a stipulation to the effect that ves- 
sels [bottles] in which infants' milk is sold shall be pro- 
vided with a label giving the day on which the milk was 
produced. A bacteriological examination of infants' 
milk is of importance as indicating the thoroughness and 
effectiveness of the methods of the concern and as indi- 
cating the need, perhaps, of subjecting these methods to 
thorough revision. 

There are other reasons for establishing a bacterio- 
logical examination of pasteurized (and sterilized) milk, 
since, in this way, most important information may be 
gained concerning the reliability or the inefficiency of 
the methods in use by the various concerns. It would 
also be of advantage, in connection with this inspection, 
to require that the containers of pasteurized milk shall 
be marked with a tag showing the day and method of 
l^asteurization (or sterilization). 

The counting of bacteria in milk is not a difficult 
matter, but when many samples are to be examined in 
this way much time is required. The method is, in gen- 
eral, the same as that used for estimating the number 
of bacteria in water or other fluids (see the text-books on 
bacteriology). It is best to use gelatin that has been 
made with milk. A good way is to add 100 grms. of gel a- 



BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS 233 

tin to one liter of milk, boil, filter, neutralize, boil and 
filter again. Or, one can use agar-agar in place of gela- 
tin in making this culture medium. In this case, it is 
necessary to first remove the casein by the use of ren- 
net. By this method, one may obtain agar or gelatin 
that is fairly transparent. The culture media should be 
placed in test tubes in the usual way. The examination 
can be made as follows: By the use of an ordinary 
cover glass preparation, examined under the microscope, 
one ascertains whether the milk is especially rich in bac- 
teria. If there are only a few bacteria, usually three gel- 
atin tubes will suffice, otherwise four or five must be used. 
One c.c. of milk is measured out and is mixed with 9 cc. 
of fluid gelatin in a test tube. After mixing, one c.c. 
of the mixture is placed in another tube containing 9 c.c. 
of fluid gelatin. From this mixture a third tube is inoc- 
ulated, and so on. In this way different dilutions of milk 
are obtained. Tube no. 1 contains 0.9 c.c. of milk; 
no. 2, 0.09; no. 3, 0.009; no. 4, 0.0009; no. 5, 0.0001. If 
nothing is taken out of tubes 2, 3 and 4 for the purpose 
of making further dilutions, they contain 0.1, 0.01 and 
0.001 c.c. of milk. Of course one can make mixtures in 
any other desired proportion. 

After making the proper dilutions the fluid is poured 
in a Petri dish which, of course, must have been steril- 
ized. After the mass of gelatin becomes firm, the covered 
dish is put away and is kept at an appropriate tempera- 
ture. In the course of time more or less colonies form 
on the gelatin, these are counted on the whole plate or 
on a definite sub-division, and by this means the approx- 
imate number of bacteria in one c.c. of milk may be 
estimated. The result of the count is by no means exact 
for a number of reasons, but this method gives an 
approximation that is sufficient for practical purposes. 
[The milk may be diluted with water instead of being 



234 MILK HYGIENE 

diluted through the gelatin tubes. Agar-agar is pre- 
ferred to gelatin because it can be used for plates to be 
incubated. If comparative counts are to be made the 
apparatus and temperatures of incubation and the char- 
acter of culture media should be the same. Porous 
Petri dish covers are preferred to glass covers because 
they tend to prevent spreading colonies. For a descrip- 
tion of the method used in the bacteriological examina- 
tion of milk in the laboratory of the Boston Board of 
Health see a paper by Slack in the Journal of Infectious 
Diseases, Supplement No. 2, February, 1906. L. P.] 

The detection of specific pathogenic bacteria is so 
difficult and the examination gives such unreliable re- 
sults that practically it is not worth while to search for 
them. The bacteria of typhoid fever and diphtheria have 
rarely been discovered through the use of cultural meth- 
ods; the tubercle bacillus may sometimes be discovered 
under the microscope but usually it is present in such 
small amounts that it cannot be detected. The best way 
to examine milk for tubercle bacilli is by inoculation of 
experimental animals. A conclusion, however, cannot 
be drawn from this experiment until one or two months 
have elapsed. 

e, [Examination for pus. The examination of milk for 
pus was first suggested by Dr. Stokes, of Baltimore, 
and has since been carried out in a number of public 
health laboratories in different parts of the United 
States. The researches of Stokes, Bergey, Stewart, 
Doane, Slack, and others have shown that cells are pres- 
ent in practically all samples of milk and that in some 
samples the cellular content is much higher than is usual. 
Where the number of cells is high it is customary to 
regard them as pus cells, but there is no general agree- 
ment as to where the line should be drawn. The question 
is a difficult one because pus cells and dead leucocytes 



EXAMINATION FOR DIRT 235 

are morphologically the same and so can not be differ- 
entiated by their appearance alone. Doane has pro- 
posed that milk shall be regarded as containing pus if 
there is high cellular content accompanied by threads 
of fibrin. Bergey proposes that pus shall be diagnosed 
if there are 10 cells to the field of the 1/12 immersion 
lens. Stewart centrifuges 1 c.c. of milk in small tubes 
and if he find 23 cells to the field of the 1/12 immersion 
lens, when the sediment of this amount of milk is spread 
over 1 square cm., he reports pus. Slack proposes that 
the sediment of 2 c.c milk shall be spread over 4 square 
cm. and that pus shall be reported if 50 cells are seen 
to the 1/12 immersion field. 

Since there is much doubt, in many cases, as to 
whether high cellular content actually denotes pus, — that 
is, as to whether the cells found are pus cells or leuco- 
cytes, and as to whether the cells themselves are in- 
jurious, it would appear to be desirable, for the present, 
to report pus only where there is high cellular content, 
as judged by one of the above methods, accompanied by 
the presence of streptococci. L. P.] 

/. Examination for dirt. The sale of unclean or dirty 
milk should be forbidden. A number of cities in Ger- 
many have established the requirement that milk shall 
not contain over a definite amount of dirt ; the limit va- 
ries from 5 to 10 milligrams of dry dirt to a liter of milk. 
An examination for dirt can be made as follows; The 
milk is placed in bottles, which are centrifuged, the milk 
is decanted and the sediment is dried at a temperature a 
little above that of boiling water. This material is 
weighed and its quantity per liter is calculated. 

Instead of this rather formidable method it is usu- 
ally sufficient to centrifuge the milk and then measure 
the sediment. Or, one can pour the milk in a high glass 
of conical shape and ascertain the amount of sediment 



236 



MILK HYGIENE 



that collects in a given time. Gerber has constructed a 
special apparatus for this purpose by means of which a 
fair approximation of the amount of dirt in milk can be 
made by simply measuring it. 

Generally, the only requirement on this point is that 
market milk shall not deposit visible sediment upon 
standing for two hours. [An apparatus for this purpose 
has also been devised by Otto, which can easily be under- 
stood by the accompanying figure. The bottle, A, which 
contains the milk is open at each end. The mouth of the 
bottle must be closed by a cork held upon a rod, C. A 



Fig. 24. 




O 



g 



otto's apparatus for estimating dirt in milk. 



fine tube, B, with a still finer point and closed at the thin 
end, is attached to the mouth of the bottle by a short 
rubber tube after which the cork on the rod C is with- 
drawn. The milk is then permitted to stand in this 
container, held in a rack, for a given time. At the end 
of this time, the stopper is replaced in the mouth of 
the bottle, the small tube is detached and the amount 



EXAMINATION FOR PRESERVATIVES 237 

of dirt is read from the scale. Stewart has devised a 
method that gives good results in the laboratory of the 
Board of Health in Philadelphia. It consists in the use 
of small glass tubes, open at each end; the lower open- 
ing is closed with a small rubber stopper. The tubes 
are filled with milk, and are centrifuged. The dirt is 
thrown upon the rubber stopper and adlieres thereto 
when the stopper is withdrawn. It may easily be trans- 
ferred to a slide for microscopic examination. Pus cells 
are collected in the same way. L. P.] 

g. Examination for preservatives. One of the most im- 
portant regulations with regard to the milk trade is 
that milk shall not be preserved by the use of antiseptics 
or alkalies, and one of the most important functions of 
the milk inspector is to see that this regulation is ob- 
served. An occasional test for preservatives may be 
made by standing the samples aside at room tempera- 
ture. If the milk does not change within the time that is 
customary for good milk, the presence of artificial pre- 
servatives may be suspected. Methods for the detec- 
tion of preservatives by chemical means have already 
been given. 

If the increased keeping power of the milk is due to 
the addition of alkalies, this may be indicated by a simple 
test with litmus paper. 



APPENDIX I. 

THE REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TRI- 

FOLIUM MILK SUPPLY COMPANY 

IN COPENHAGEN, DENMARK. 

I. THE WORK OF THE COMPANY SHALL BE UNDER THE SUPER- 

VISION OF A COMMITTEE OF CONTROL CONSISTING OF A 
PHYSICIAN AND A VETERINARIAN. 

II. THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY TO THE COMMITTEE OF 

CONTROL SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS. 

1. Milk may be taken only from herds that have been ap- 
proved by the committee, and that furnish milk containing at 
least 3 per cent. fat. 

2. Nursery (children's) milk shall come only from herds 
that are proven to be entirely free from tuberculosis by the 
use of the tuberculin test, and these herds shall be retested at 
least once a year. Milk may be received from a tuberculosis- 
free part of a herd only after the committee has investigated 
the conditions, and has given its approval. In this case, the 
healthy part of the herd is to be kept entirely apart from 
the reacting section, it is to be retested at least once a year, 
and the reacting animals are gradually to be disposed of. 

If a calf plague (calf cholera, contagious pneumonia, 
pyj^mia, etc.) occurs in the herd the committee may require 
shipments of milk to be discontinued until further notice. 

3. The company pays one or more veterinarians, who are ap- 
pointed by and are responsible to the committee of control. 

Farms that supply the regular whole milk, skimmed milk 
and cream are to be inspected by the veterinarian twice a 
month, unless in summer the cows are kept stabled, in which 
case four visits per month are to be made. Herds that supply 
nursery milk are to be inspected the year through four times a 
month. Travelling expenses are paid by the company. 

4. Nursery milk is to be shipped only in containers that 

239 



240 MILK HYGIENE 

are easily distinguished by their shape and color from the 
containers used for the regular milk. 

5. The company shall not employ any weakly persons, nor 
any that are afflicted with an infectious disease or with any 
repulsive skin disease, as tuberculosis or syphilis. Any em- 
ployee so affected is to be dismissed. 

If any one of the employees shall contract typhoid fever, 
gastric fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever, erysipelas or any 
other virulent infectious disease, the affected person shall not 
come upon the premises of the company or resume his work 
until he shall present a certificate from a physician to the 
effect that he is no longer capable of conveying infection. The 
same applies to employees in whose dwelling any one of the 
above named diseases may occur. 

If any one of the employees shall be afflicted with discharg- 
ing or suppurating wounds on the face, hands or arms or 
with any transmissible or repulsive disease or with severe 
diarrhoea, the affected person shall not be employed, during 
the continuance of the condition, in any work in which he 
would come into direct or indirect contact with milk, nor 
shall he be permitted to wash bottles. 

Every employee who may not work on account of illness, 
or on account of disease in his family, is to receive his full 
pay as though working. A physician is appointed with whom 
the employees and the members of their families may consult 
and who shall make frequent visits to the dairy premises and 
keep an oversight of the employees as to their health. 

The company shall keep a special record showing the em- 
ployees that are ill, when they are laid off, and the nature of 
the illness. 

6. The milk shall be cooled to 5° C. (41° F.) as it is re- 
ceived from the producers and shall be kept at this or a lower 
temperature. 

7. All containers ^^ are to be thoroughly cleaned by a 
method approved by the committee. The bottles for nursery 

^® The milk is delivered to customers only in sealed cans or, in the 
case of nursery milk, in bottles. 



COMPANY REGULATIONS 241 

milk are to be cleaned and heated in accordance with the 
instructions of the committee. 

8. The herds and all of the premises connected with the 
business are to be open to the members of the committee at 
all times. All necessary travelling expenses are to be paid. 

9. All announcements and communications regarding the 
business, so far as these relate to the technical matters under 
the supervision of the committee, are to be approved by the 
committee before they are published. 

10. A member of the committee of control shall be privi- 
leged to resign (a) at any time when in his opinion the hygienic 
regulations relating to the conduct of the business are not 
properly observed and, similarly, if later regulations made by 
order of the committee are not complied with, or (6) [under 
other circumstances] he may resign after three months' notice. 

III. REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRODUCTION 
AND CARE OF MILK 

A. THE HEALTH OF THE HERDS 

1. The producer must agree to permit the veterinarian 
of the company to examine his herd as often as may be con- 
sidered by the company to be necessary and he must give 
the veterinarian such information as he may desire in regard 
to the herd, the feeding and the milk. 

The producer must agree to observe the instructions of the 
veterinarian. 

2. The cattle that are designated by the veterinarian as 
tuberculous are to be removed from the herd at once, and, as 
soon as possible, they are to be sold or killed. Cattle that for 
any other cause are picked out by the veterinarian are, as he 
directs, to be removed from the stable or placed apart at one 
end; the milk may not be used and the cows may not be 
restored to their places with the herd until permission is given. 

3. In case disease occurs between the visits of the veter- 
inarian, and especially any of the following, — tuberculosis, in- 
flammation of the udder, inflammation of the uterus, severe 
diarrhoea, — the affected animal or animals are to be isolated 

16 



242 MILK HYGIENE 

and their milk must not be used. The company will con- 
tinue to pay for this milk until the veterinarian makes an in- 
spection. If a number of cows become diseased in such a 
way as to suggest the outbreak of an epizootic or poisoning 
the veterinarian and the business manager of the company 
are to be notified at once by telegraph or telephone. 

4. The milk of newly purchased cows may not be used until 
these cows have been examined by the veterinarian and ap- 
proved. 

5. The producers of nursery milk are obligated to add no 
cows to their herds until they have been tested with tuberculin 
and are declared by the veterinarian for the company to be 
healthy. 

All of the cows of the herd are to be tagged by the veter- 
inarian. 

The producer is required to have his herd tested with 
tuberculin at least once a year. The records of test are to be 
submitted by the veterinarian of the company to the com- 
mitlee. 

If there is maintained on a farm a herd of reacting cows, 
the producer is required to dispose of these gradually and to 
take care that there is no contact between the healthy and the 
reacting cattle. 

B. THE HEALTH OF THE PERSONNEL 

1. The producer is required to observe the following rules 
in relation to the health of the persons who work in the stable 
or with the milk : 

a. No one may be employed who is affected with tubercu- 
losis or syphilis. 

h. Persons who have discharging or suppurating sores or 
wounds on the face, hands or arms, or a disease of the skin of 
these regions, or that have severe diarrhoea are not under any 
circumstances to be permitted to come in contact with the milk. 

c. Persons who live in a house where there is typhoid 
fever, gastric fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever or any other 
virulent infectious diseases are, likewise, positively prohibited 
from coming in contact with the milk until the local physician 



COMPANY REGULATIONS . 243 

certifies that they are no longer infectious. If, nevertheless, 
such persons should by accident come in contact with the milk, 
it is to be held back (not shipped) and the company will pay 
the usual price for it, unless the contamination was the result 
of connivance on the part of the producers. 

d. The producer is required to use all possible care in 
keeping informed as to the condition of health of his employees 
so that every case of infectious disease may be discovered and 
isolated as soon as possible. 

e. Once a year— soon after the "moving days" — a state- 
ment is to be submitted from the local physician to show the 
state of health of the persons on the farm and all cases of in- 
fectious diseases that he treated [on the farm] during the pre- 
ceding half year. 

2. If a case of typhoid fever, gastric fever, diphtheria, 
scarlet fever or any other virulent infectious disease occurs 
among the people living at the farmstead or among the people 
employed on the farm, the producer is obligated immediately 
to notify the manager of the company by telegraph or tele- 
phone. The milk shall be held back and shipments may not 
be resumed until the committee of control has given permis- 
sion. 

For all milk that is held back under these circumstances 
the company will pay full price. 

C. FEEDING AND CARE OF THE COWS 

1. All food must be quite fresh [frisch — not deteriorated]. 
Mouldy or otherwise damaged food must not be in the stable, 
or in the immediate vicinity. The veterinarian of the com- 
pany has the right to inspect the food. 

2. In summer, so far as possible, the cows are to be fed 
in the pasture. If it is necessary to feed them in the stable, 
the company is to be notified and then the producer is re- 
quired to use care that the stable and the cows are kept as 
clean as possible. 

The company reserves the right to forbid, if it is considered 
necessary, the stable feeding of cows that produce nursery 
milk. 



244 MILK HYGIENE 

3. The veterinarian shall be advised as to the composition 
of the feed. The following rules apply: 

a. No roots may be fed to cows producing nursery milk 
except carrots and sugar beets, and of these not more than 20 
kilos [40 lbs.] per da}^ 

ft. Cows producing regular milk may receive as much as 
30 kilos [60 lbs.] per day, provided this amount does not 
cause diarrhoea. 

c. Beet tops, beet trimmings, cabbage, distillers' slops, 
malt, etc., may not be fed. 

d. For cows producing nursery milk, the following foods 
are prohibited: molasses, cotton-seed meal, green or dry buck- 
wheat and mustard. These feeds may be given to other cows, 
but only in small quantities. JMolasses must not be used if it 
produces any undesirable effect. 

e. If rape seed is used, it must not contain any consider- 
able quantity of oil of mustard, and before it is used it must 
be shown to the official veterinarian. 

4. The producer is required, so far as possible, to forbid 
frequent and sudden changes of food. 

5. Before the cows are stabled in the fall, the hair is to be 
clipp£d from the udder, tail and thighs. 

6. The use of beast milk is forbidden until ten days after 
calving. The milk shall not be used from cows that have daily 
less than 3 kilos [3 quarts]. 

D. THE CARE OF THE MILK 

1. Milking must be conducted with the highest degree of 
cleanliness and care. The following specific rules shall apply : 

a. Each milker must always wear a milking suit and must 
be supplied with a towel. Clean water must be supplied in 
ample amount, so that the hands may be washed as often as 
necessary. 

h. The stable must be so well lighted, and especially behind 
the cows, that those who do the work can see clearly enough to 
perform their work in an orderly and clean manner. 

c. Immediately after milking, the milk is to be passed 



COMPANY REGULATIONS 245 

through a fine metal strainer, Avhieh must be cleaned fre- 
quently. 

d. The milk is to be cooled before it is shipped, at all sea- 
sons, and just after milking, by the use of a cooler, to at least 
8° C. (46.4° F.). 

e. Mucking out shall not take place until after the morn- 
ing milking, and in the afternoon it must be completed at 
least one hour before milking. 

/. Fresh cows [those giving beast milk], cows which give 
less than 3 kilos [3 quarts] a day, and cows that have been 
separated from the herd by the veterinarian shall have places 
in the end of the stable, so that it will not be possible for the 
milkers to mix their milk with that of the cows producing milk 
for the use of the company. 

2. A sufficient supply of ice shall be available. For cool- 
ing, an apparatus is to be used that is set up in a light, clean 
room, that is used for no other purpose, and each time, before 
used, it is to be rinsed off with clean water. 

3. The producer agrees to follow the instructions regard- 
ing cleanliness in the stable and the care of the milk that may 
be given him by the company or by their veterinarian. 

E. DELIVERY 

1. In the summer the transport wagons must be supplied 
with a cover to protect the milk cans from the sun. 

Feed, fertilizer, etc., must not be carried on the same 
wagon with milk or with the cleaned milk containers. 

2. The company furnishes the cans used for transporting 
the milk. Those used for nursery milk must not be used for 
other milk. Under no circumstances shall the cans be used 
for any purpose other than to send milk to the milk station. 
The cans are cleaned by the company before they are returned. 

3. The producers are to rinse the cans in clean, cold water, 
and, if soiled during transportation, they are to be cleaned. 

4. The producer is required to furnish a supply of good 
water for the cows and for cleaning the vessels and utensils 
that come in contact with the milk. Any suspected defect of 



246 MILK HYGIENE 

the water supply is to be reported at once to the committee on 
control. 

F. OTHER PROVISIONS 

1. The producer agrees to answer truthfully and honestly 
all questions from the company in regard to the milk supply. 

2. It is agreed that the herds and premises where the milk 
is handled and cared for shall be open at all times to the mem- 
bers of the committee on control. 

IV. INSTRUCTIONS TO THE VETERINARIANS 

The veterinarians are appointed and can only be dismissed 
by the committee on control, and all instructions come from 
this committee. 

A report is to be rendered to the committee on every visit 
to a herd, and this shall contain information in regard to: 
the total number of cows, the cows in milk, all cases of disease, 
whether cows have been sold or killed that were isolated as 
suspicious or diseased, the condition of the whole establish- 
ment in respect to cleanliness, the method of feeding and re- 
marks on any pertinent subject. 



[It is especially to be noted, in respect to the above regula- 
tions, that thej^ are planned not for the purpose of measuring, 
by means of a laboratory examination, the extent to which milk 
has become contaminated, but for the purpose of preventing 
cont animation. 

The most injurious bacteria in milk are the pathogenic 
forms that come from diseased persons or cattle and the putre- 
factive organisms that come from diseased cows, dirty prem- 
ises or utensils or faulty methods of milking or handling milk. 
The most important pathogenic forms cannot be detected in 
milk by the usual routine methods in use in milk laboratories, 
if at all. And if these organisms are detected by laboratory 
examination it is not until long after the milk has been con- 
sumed. Nor can the injurious saprophytes be identified in 
the laboratory until too late to prevent the use of milk con- 



COMPANY EEGULATIONS 247 

taining them. Hence, it must be clear that the truest protec- 
tion to the consumer consists in guarding the source of the 
milk and the milk itself, from conditions that are known to be 
accompanied by danger of injurious contamination. 

The value of laboratory examinations as to the number and 
kind of bacteria, pus cells and solid dirt is not under-esti- 
mated; it is very great as a measure of the thoroughness of 
the precautions taken on the dairy farm, and during shipping. 
But the value of this examination should not be exaggerated, 
as appears to be the tendency in some quarters, and it should 
not be thought that any laboratory examination can, with 
safety, be permitted to take the place of regular, expert veter- 
inary inspections of the cattle, methods and premises. 

The hacteriologic and microscopic examinations of milk that 
are wade in public health laboratories keep contaminated milk 
from, entering the market only in so far as they point out the 
necessity for the veterinary and sanitary control of dairy 
farms. (See quotation from Freeman on page 168.) L. P.] 



APPENDIX II. 

The following instructions in regard to the production of 
nursery milk are taken from a circular letter of May 27th, 
1899, from the central government of Germany to the local 
governments. 

NURSERY MILK 

** The special establishments for producing and selling 
nursery milk, which have greatly increased in number in re- 
cent times, and which use special designations, as sanitary 
dairy, health milk, children's milk, superior milk, etc., are to 
be looked after with special care by the sanitary authorities. 
The general methods, the cleanliness of the stable, the store- 
room, the utensils, the condition of health of the cows and their 
feeding and care are to be placed under veterinary oversight 

'' The stables shall be roomy, light and airy, and they shall 
have impervious floors and mangers of such description that 
they can be easily cleaned. Running water shall be provided 
for cleansing and the drainage shall be good. Only cows for 
the production of nursery milk shall be kept in such special 
stables and these cows shall be marked in some permanent 
way. 

* ' It is not necessary to lay down special regulations for feed- 
ing such cows, but attention should be called to the known 
facts as to injurious effects of certain cattle foods on milk 
used for infant feeding. 

'' In general, the feeding of creamery refuse should be for- 
bidden on account of the danger of spreading tuberculosis. 

*' The condition of health of cows designed for producing 
nursery milk is to be determined before they are placed in the 
empire. This examination is to be repeated at intervals of 
three months. 

' ' A careful book record is to be kept of these examinations. 
The official who is charged with this oversight shall make an 
appropriate entry for each visit. 

249 



250 MILK HYGIENE 

'' The occurrence of any one of the following named diseases 
among the cows is to be reported at once to the official veter- 
inarian: anthrax, contagious pleuro-pneumonia, foot-and- 
mouth disease, black quarter, rabies, cowpox, icterus, dysentery, 
inflammations of the udder, blood poisonings, especially 
pyaemia and septicaemia, putrid inflammation of the uterus or 
other febrile conditions, retention of the after-birth and con- 
ditions that result in the occurrence of discolored milk. 

'* Cows which show evidence of disturbance of digestion, of 
diarrhoea or pica, or cows that are suspected of being afflicted 
with tuberculosis shall at once be removed from the stable, 
until the animal is examined and the condition determined by 
the official veterinarian. 

*' It is not permitted to use as bedding soiled or refuse 
straw or other waste material. 

* ' Cows for producing nursery milk shall be kept particularly 
clean. Before milking, the udder is to be carefully cleaned. 
The milkers must keep themselves thoroughly clean. They 
must wash their hands and arms with soap before milking, and 
wear a clean frock. Any person suffering with a contagious 
or eruptive disease must not be permitted to milk." 



APPENDIX III. 

Certified milk in Philadelphia is produced under the con- 
trol of a commission organized in 1899 under the following 
plan: 

1. There shall be a Milk Commission of the Philadelphia 
Pediatric Society, whose duty it shall be to have examined 
milk submitted to them by dairymen and certify as to the 
result of such examination. 

2. The actions of the Commission shall be reported from 
time to time to the Society and shall be subject to its approval. 

3. The Commission shall consist of four members besides the 
President of the Society, who shall be a member ex officio. The 
members shall be appointed yearly by the President as soon 
as possible after his election. The Commission shall elect a 
chairman and a secretary from their number. 

4. No statement for publication or information to any 
dairyman shall be given by or in the name of any individual 
member, but only after consideration by the Commission and 
in the name of ''The Milk Commission of the Philadelphia 
Pediatric Society." 

5. The Commission will hold itself in readiness to examine 
milk from dairies desiring this examination, and to certify to 
the good quality of milk which comes up to the standards fixed 
by it. It is understood that only the milk of dairies, and not 
that of milkmen who merely serve milk bought by them, will 
be examined by the Commission. 

6. The method of examination and certification to which 
the dairyman or his agent shall agree to submit shall be as 
follows : 

7. The Commission shall select a bacteriologist, a chemist, 
and a veterinary inspector. The bacteriologist shall procure 
a specimen of milk from the dairy, or, preferably, from de- 
livery wagons, at intervals to be arranged between the Com- 
mission and the dairy, but in no case at a longer interval than 

251 



252 MILK HYGIENE 

one month. The exact time of the procuring shall be with- 
out previous notice to the dairy. He shall test this milk for 
the number and nature of bacteria present in it, to the extent 
which the needs of safe milk demand. He shall also make a 
microscopic examination of the milk for pus cells. Milk free 
from pus and injurious germs and having not more than 
10,000 germs of any kind or kinds to the cubic centimeter, 
shall be considered to be up to the required standard of purity. 

8. The chemist shall in a similar manner procure and ex- 
amine the milk for the percentages of proteids, fat, sugar, 
mineral matter, and water present. He shall also test its 
chemical reaction and specific gravity, and shall examine it 
for the presence of foreign coloring or other matters or chem- 
icals added as preservatives. Standard milk shall range from 
1.029 to 1.034 specific gravity, be neutral or very faintly acid 
in reaction, contain not less than from 3.5 per cent, to 4.5 per 
cent, proteid; from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent, sugar, and not 
less than 3.5 per cent, to 4.5 per cent, fat in the case of 4 per 
cent, fat milk, and shall be free from all contaminating foreign 
matter and from all addition of chemical substances or color- 
ing matters. Richness of cream in fat shall be specified and 
shall vary not more than 1 per cent, above or below the figure 
named in selling. Neither milk nor cream shall have been 
subjected to heat before the examination has been made, nor 
at any time, unless so announced to the consumer. 

9. The veterinary inspector shall, at intervals equal to 
those of the bacteriologist and chemist, and without previous 
warning to the dairy, inspect the cleanliness of the dairy in 
general, the care and cleanliness observed in milking, the care 
of the various utensils employed, the nature and quality of the 
food used, and all other matters of a hygienic nature bearing 
upon the health of the cows and the cleanliness of the milk, 
including also as far as possible the inquiry into the health of 
the employees on their farms. He shall also see that the cows 
are free from tuberculosis or other disease. 

10. The charges made by the experts shall be — for the 
veterinarian $10.00, and $5.00 for each of the others for each 
examination ; this amount to be paid by the dairy at the time 



PLAN FOR COMMISSION 253 

of the examination and without regard to whether the report 
is favorable or unfavorable. The experts shall make their 
examinations when, and only when, notified to do so by the 
Commission. Any dairy the milk of which shall be found by 
the examiners to be up to the standard of the Commission 
shall receive a certificate from the Commission, which shall 
read as follows: 

MILK COMMISSION OF THE PHILADELPHIA 
PEDIATRIC SOCIETY 

Date 

The Veterinary Inspector of the Commission has examined 

the dairy of Mr and reports it to be well kept and 

clean, and the cows to be in a healthy condition. 

The Bacteriologist reports that the milk does not contain 
germs beyond the limits of the standards of the Commission. 

The Chemist reports that the milk is of standard richness, 
and that he has discovered in it no impurities, coloring mat- 
ters, chemical preservatives, or harmful substances. 

The Commission certifies to these statements of the 
examiners. It is understood and agreed to by the said 

Mr that this certificate is good for not more 

than from date, when another examination is to be 

made. 

[Signed by the Commission.] 

11. In case an examination shows the milk not to be up to 
the standard the dairy may have a re-examination made within 
a week or within a short time, at the discretion of the Commis- 
sion. 

12. Milk furnished by the dealers to whom certificates 
have been issued shall be furnished to consumers in glass 
bottles hermetically sealed in a manner satisfactory to the Com- 
mission. In addition to the sealing, and as a guarantee to the 
consumer that the examination has been regularly conducted, 
there shall be pasted over the mouth of the jar, or handed to 
the consumer with every jar, according to the discretion of 
the Commission, a certificate slip which shall read as follows : 



254 MILK HYGIENE 



PHILADELPHIA PEDIATRIC SOCIETY. 

MILK COMMISSION CERTIFICATE. 



Milk from the dairy of Mr has been recently 

examined by the experts of the Milk Commiission and found to be up to the required 
standards. Another examination is to be made within a month, and, if satisfactory, 
new labels for tlie bottles will be issued, dated 

NOTICE THE DATES. 



The blanks used by the experts of the Commission in re- 
porting to the secretary are as follows: 



REPORT OF VETERINARIAN. 

Philadelphia, 190. . . 

Secretary of the Commission, 

Dear Sir: — I have examined, as requested by the Commission, 

the dairy of at 

and find the following conditions: — 

I milking cows. 

hospital cows. 

cows sick since last report. 

dry cows. 

cows recently calved, 

cows added since last report. 

Did they pass veterinary inspection and the tuberculin test before 

admission to the milking herd ? 

cows now in quarantine. 

Total number of cows in herd of which 

have been tested with tuberculin in the past year. 

II. Food employed. 



III. Source and character of water in dairy and stables. 

IV. Condition of Stables: 

Ventilation Heat 

Cleanliness, etc 

Floors Troughs 

Condition of other buildings 

V. Health of employees and their families, as far as ascertained, 
is 

VI. The general precautions of cleanliness in milking and the care 
of the milk are 

I therefore recommend that milk from this dairy be submitted to the 
Bacteriologist and Chemist of the Commission for their examinations. 
Yours truly, Veterinarian. 



ESTIMATION OF QUALITY 255 

REPORT OF BACTERIOLOGIST. 

Philadelphia, 190 .. . 

Secretary of the Commission, 
Dear Sir: 

At the request of the Commission, received on 

milk 

, 190 . . , cream from the dairy of 

labeled was obtained by me on 

190 . . , at Street, at o'clock, 

. . . .M., and examined at o'clock, . . . ,M., with the following results- 
milk 

Number of bacteria per c.c. of cream 

I have been unable to detect any pathogenic organisms or evidence 
of purulent inflammation of the udder. 

milk 
I therefore recommend the cream as coming up to the bacteriologic 
standards adopted by the Commission. 

I find the bottles to be sealed in the manner prescribed by the 
Commission. 

Yours truly, 
Bacteriologist. 

REPORT OF CHEMIST. 

Philadelphia, 190 .. . 

Secretary of the Com^mission, 
Dear Sir: 

At the request of the Commission, received on 

milk 

190 . . , cream from the dairy of 

labeled was obtained by me on 

190.., and examined with the following results: 

Fat, (Leffman-Beam method,) 

Total proteids, (Kjeldahl-Gunning method, factor 6.25), 

Preservatives, added color and heat, none. 

Acidity, 

Specific gravity, 

milk 
I therefore recommend the cream as coming up to the chemical 
standards adopted by the Commission. 

I find the bottles to be sealed in the manner prescribed by the Com- 
mission. 

Yours truly, 
Chemist. 



APPENDIX IV. 

The following plan for estimating the quality of dairy 
farm conditions, and for making it possible to compare farms, 
was originated and arranged by R. A. Pearson, Professor of 
Dairy Industry at Cornell University. 

The score card idea has been extensively employed in 
judging animals, plants, seeds, etc., but this is the first adapta- 
tion of this principle to the judging of such a complex object 
as a dairy farm, including all of the factors that enter into 
the production of sanitary milk. A special feature of this 
scheme is the division into groups; a low score in any group 
renders the whole inferior, no matter how excellent the other 
groups may be. 

The general idea is an excellent one; it enables the in- 
spector to record in convenient form a summary of the result 
of his inspection and, by this means, a comparison can readily 
be made between the conditions of a farm at different times. 
Some practice is required to obtain the best results from the 
use of this method. 



257 



258 



MILK HYGIENE 



Department of Dairy Industry, College of Agriculture, 
Cornell University.. 

Score Card for Production of Sanitary Milk, 



Date. 



Dairy of. 





Health and comfort of the cows and their isola- 
tion When sick or at calving time 


Perfect 

45 
35 
20 


Score 


I. Health of the 




herd and its pro- 
tection 


Location, lighting and ventilation of the stable. . 
Food and water 


Total 




100 










Cows 


30 
20 
20 
30 




II, Cleanliness of 


Stable 


the cows and their 


Barnyard and pasture 


surroundings 


Stable air (freedom from dust and odors) 

Total 




100 








III, Construction 
and care of the 


Construction of utensils and their cleaning and 
sterilizing 


40 

25 
20 
15 




Water supply for cleaning and location and pro- 
tection of its source 


utensils 


Care of utensils after cleaning 




Use of small-top milking pail 




Total 




100 










Health of employees 


45 
30 
25 




JF. Health of em- 
ployees and 
manner of milk- 


Clean over-all milking suits and milking with 
clean, dry hands 


Quiet milking, attention to cleanliness of the 


ing 


Total 


100 










Prompt and eflS-cient cooling 


35 

35 
30 




V, Handling the 
milk 


Handling milk in a sanitary room and holding it 


Protection during transportation to market 

Total 




100 










TOTAL OF ALL SCORES 


500 









If the total of all scores is And each division is The sanitary conditions are 

480 or above 90 or above EXCELLENT 

450 or above 80 or above * .GOOD 

400 or above 60 or above MEDIUM 

Below 400 Or any division is below 60 POOR 



The sanitary 

conditions are Scored by. 



APPENDIX V. 

On account of its historic value, the following agreement, 
which was the first provision for the production of "certified 
milk" in America, is reproduced. The plan of the agreement 
originated with Dr. Henry L. Coit, of Newark, N. J., and the 
' ' party of the first party, ' ' of the contract is the Medical Milk 
Commission of Essex County, New Jersey. The date of this 
agreement was May 9th, 1893. It is still in force. 

1. The party of the second part doth hereby agree to con- 
duct such parts of his dairy as may be hereafter named, collect 
and handle its products in conformity with the following code 
of requirements, for and in consideration of the promised 
endorsement of the parties of the first part, as hereinafter 
indicated. The milk thus produced shall be known as certified 
milk; shall be designed especially for clinical purposes, and 
when at any time the demand shall be greater than the supply, 
and it is required by a physician, either for infant feeding or 
the diet of the sick, it is hereby agreed that such shall be the 
preferred purchaser. 

2. The party of the second part further agrees to pay for 
chemical and bacteriological examinations of the aforesaid 
certified milk, at such time as in the judgment of the party of 
the first part is desirable. 

3. He also agrees to defray the cost of a bi-monthly in- 
spection of his dairy stock, or oftener, if necessary, by a 
competent and approved veterinarian, all of which persons, 
namely: the chemist, the bacteriologist, the veterinary surgeon, 
shall be chosen by the parties of the first part, to whom they 
shall render their reports in writing. 

4. It is expressly understood and agreed, that the party 
of the second part shall not pay more than the sum of five 
hundred dollars in any one year, for the services of chemist, 
bacteriologist and veterinary surgeon, and the party of the 

259 



260 MILK HYGIENE 

first part shall limit the expense of such service to that amount. 
It is furthermore agreed that the party of the second part, on 
receipt of a certified copy of the reports of the experts, shall 
mail to the persons indicated by the parties of the first part, 
and not to others, a duplicate printed copy of the aforesaid 
reports, bearing the signatures of the experts and the names 
of the physicians. The same to be issued at such intervals as 
in the judgment of the parties of the first part is desirable; 
also that the necessary expenditures for printing and circula- 
tion be met in the same way as herein provided for expert 
examinations. 

LOCATION OF LANDS 

5. It is hereby understood and agreed, that the lands used 
by the owners, agents or assigns of the dairy, conducted by 
the party of the second part, and employed for pasturage, or 
any hinds that may hereafter be acquired for such purpose, or 
such lands as may be used for the cultivation of hay or fodder, 
shall be subject to the approval of the parties of the first part. 

BUILDINGS 

6. It is also understood and agreed, that the buildings, such 
as stables, creamery, dairy house and spring house, shall be 
constructed after the most approved style of architecture, in 
so far as construction may affect the health of the dairy stock, 
or the character and conditions of the milk. 

7. The buildings, used for the housing of the animals, shall 
be situated on elevated ground, and capable of being properly 
drained. 

8. Said buildings to be sheltered from cold winds, lighted 
and ventilated according to approved hygienic methods. The 
buildings shall be constructed so as to favor the prompt and 
easy removal of waste products. 

9. The apartments used for the storage of either feed or 
fodder shall be removed from possible contamination by stable 
waste or animal odors. 

10. All buildings shall, in addition to healthy location, ap- 
proved construction and proper ventilation, be kept free from 
animal or vegetable matter in a state or process of decomposi- 



FIRST AMERICAN AGREEMENT 261 

tion or decay, and always free from accumulations of dust or 
mould. 

THE WATER SUPPLY 

11. The dairy shall be supplied with an abundance of pure 
water. 

12. No water from shallow wells or springs holding sur- 
face drainage, shall be used for watering stock, cooling milk 
or cleaning vessels. 

13. Nor shall any well or spring be located within three 
hundred feet of the stable. 

SURROUNDINGS 

14. It is further understood and agreed that the immedi- 
ate surroundings of the buildings shall be kept in a condition 
of cleanliness and order. There shall not be allowed to ac- 
cumulate in the vicinity any loose dirt, rubbish or decayed 
vegetable or animal matter, or animal waste. 

15. Nor shall there be within three hundred yards of any 
building, any constantly wet or marshy ground, or stagnant 
pools of water. 

16. Nor shall there be kept within three hundred yards 
of any building used for dairy purposes any fowls, hogs, 
horses or other live stock. 

THE cows 

17. It is hereby understood and agreed that the following 
unhealthj^ conditions shall be a sufficient reason to exclude any 
animal from the herd used for any purpose in the aforesaid 
dairy : Any animal that is judged by a competent observer to 
suffer from tuberculosis, even though the disease be localized 
in a part distant from the vital organs. 

18. Any animal with fever. Any animal suffering from 
septic absorption or other disease, following or associated with 
parturition. 

19. Any animal suffering from mammitis or mammary 
abscess. 

20. Any animal with persistent diarrhoea or any other ab- 
normal physical condition, which could in any way be detri- 
mental to the character of the milk. 



262 MILK HYGIENE 

21. It is furthermore agreed that when an animal shall be 
found by a competent observer to be in a state of ill health, 
prejudicial either to the other animals in the herd or to human 

health, the same shall be removed immediately, and if neces- 
sary, shall be killed. 

22. It is also understood and agreed that the party of 
the second part shall exclude from the herd used for produc- 
ing certified milk, immediately after discovery, any animal 
subject to the following conditions: Any animal that was 
bred through consanguinity within a period of three gener- 
ations. 

23. And from this time forth, any animal of those bred by 
the party of the second part, used for producing certified milk, 
that was not, as a heifer, kept sterile during its first twenty- 
seven months. 

24. Any phenomenal milker, except that glandular disease 
or tuberculosis has first been excluded for a competent ob- 
server. 

25. It is furthermore agreed that if at any time it is de- 
sired by the parties of the first part, that a different breed of 
milch cows should be substituted for the one in use, in order 
that the standards of quality in the milk may be raised, the 
party of the second part will endeavor to carry the same into 
eflPect. 

HOUSING AND CARE 

26. It is furthermore agreed, that the dairy stock employed 
in the production of certified milk, shall be properly sheltered 
from the influences of weather and climate prejudicial to their 
health ; also that the animals shall be kept clean, groomed every 
day, and treated kindly at all times. 

27. The waste products of the stable shall be removed so 
frequently, and the stable floor so thoroughly cleaned, that the 
same shall be as free as possible from animal odors. 

28. It is also agreed that no milch cow shall be used for 
dairy purposes while in a state of excitement, either as a result, 
or during the period of estrux, or which has been made nervous 
either by heating, whipping, kicking, prodding or running. 



FIRST AMERICAN AGREEMENT 263 

FEEDING 

29. It is hereby understood and agreed that the methods 
of feeding the cows furnishing the certified milk, shall be sub- 
ject to the approval of the parties of the first part. The feed 
and fodder shall consist only of nutritious and wholesome ma- 
terials; such as grass, clover and timothy hay, whole grain, or 
the entire result of the grist. No materials shall be employed 
which are or may become injurious to the health of the ani- 
mals. There shall not be fed at any time, or in any quantity, 
either alone or mixed with other feed or fodder, hulls, screen- 
ings, Avet or dry brewers' grains, oil cake, sour ensilage, the 
refuse from distilleries, glucose or starch factories, any waste 
by-product in the treatment of grain, low marsh grass, or any 
of the questionable or exhausted feeds or fodders employed 
either to increase the milking capacity of the animal, or that 
will produce an impoverished milk, or that will impart to it 
unnatural odors or flavors. Nor shall the cows be allowed to 
eat green or worm-eaten fruit, poisonous weeds or to drink 
poisonous or stagnant water. 

COLLECTING AND HANDLING 

30. It is furthermore understood and agreed, that the cows 
from which is obtained certified milk shall be milked only in a 
clean building, and not an illy-ventilated stable containing foul 
odors and bad air. 

31. No animal furnishing certified milk shall be milked 
until the udder shall first have been cleaned in a manner ap- 
proved by the parties of the first part. 

32. No person shall be allowed to draw the milk that has 
not within fifteen minutes of the milking first washed his or 
her hands, using soap and nail brush, and afterward thor- 
oughly rinsing the hands in clean water. 

33. The person or persons engaged in milking shall also be 
dressed in clean over-clothes. 

34. No person shall be allowed to draw the milk who has 
been engaged with the care of horses in the same clothing or 
without first washing his hands. 

35. No milk shall be represented as certified milk that is not 



264 MILK HYOIENE 

received from the udder into vessels, and from these into cool- 
ing cans, both of which are perfectly clean and dry, having been 
cleansed and heated, at a temperature adequate to effect com- 
plete sterilization, since the last milking; and have been kept 
inverted in a clean, dry and odorless atmosphere. 

36. No milk shall be represented as certified milk that has 
not been passed through a sieve of wire or other cloth, either 
while milking or immediately thereafter, having not less than 
one hundred meshes to the linear inch. 

37. No milk shall be represented as certified milk that does 
not consist of the entire contents of the udder at each milking, 
including the fore-milk, middlings and strippings. 

38. No milk shall be represented as certified milk that has 
been draM^n from the animal at abnormal hours, such as mid- 
night or noon ; nor from any animal for a period of nine weeks 
before calving, or that has not been separated for nine days 
after parturition. 

39. No milk shall be represented as certified milk, which 
has been exposed to the emanation or infection of any form 
of communicable disease, either in the person or persons hand- 
ling the milk, or by accidental contamination in cleaning milk 
containers, or by the association of any person engaged in 
handling the milk, with person or persons sick of contagious 
disease. 

PREPARATION FOR SHIPMENT 

40. It is hereby understood and agreed, that all milk repre- 
sented as certified milk shall receive every known detail of 
care that will promote its keeping qualities, and favor its safe 
transportation. 

41. That the milk on being drawn from the cow, shall be 
treated by ice, or clean, cold water in motion and proper aera- 
tion, in order, first, to remove its animal heat, and second, to 
reduce its temperature to a point not above fifty degrees, nor 
below forty degrees Fahrenheit; said temperature to be ac- 
quired within forty-five minutes after milking, and maintained 
within the above limits while held for shipment, during its 
transportation and until it is delivered to the purchaser. 



FIRST AMERICAN AGREEMENT 265 

42. That the cooling of the milk shall not be conducted in 
the same building in which it is drawn, nor in an atmosphere 
containing dust or tainted with animal odors. 

43. That all the foregoing provisions concerning the cleans- 
ing and condition of vessels or utensils shall be complied with 
in the said cooling process. 

44. It is furthermore agreed, that no milk shall be repre- 
sented as certified milk, that has been changed or reduced in 
any way, by the addition of water or any solid or liquid sub- 
stance, in or out of solution, or the subtraction or removal, 
in any manner, of any part thereof. 

45. It is hereby understood and agreed, that all milk to be 
represented as certified milk, shall be packed in flint glass 
quart jars immediately after it is cooled. 

46. Said jars to be of a pattern approved by the parties 
of the first part. 

47. It is furthermore agreed that the bottles or jars, before 
being used, shall be cleaned by hand, separately, with the aid 
of hot water, alkaline soaps, rotating brush and steam, and 
that they shall be rinsed in two separate baths of clean, hot 
water and then thoroughly dried and kept inverted until used, 
"svithout covers, in a clean, dry atmosphere free from odors. 

48. It is agreed that the jars shall be filled by a method 
approved by the parties of the first part. 

49. That they shall be sealed after all air has been excluded, 
by the most approved device for closing them. 

50. The bottles after being filled, shall be labeled across the 
cap, bearing the words ' ' Certified IMilk, ' ' with the name of the 
dairyman, together with the date of milking. 

51. It is furthermore agreed, that no milk shall be sold as 
certified milk, that is more than three hours old when bottled, 
nor more than twenty-four hours old when delivered. 

TRANSPORTATION AND DELIVERY. 

52. It is hereby understood and agreed, that the transporta- 
tion and distribution of all milk represented as certified milk, 
shall be conducted by the party of the second part, either in 
person or by persons employed by him. 



266 MILK HYGIENE 

53. That in transit, the milk shall not be exposed to any 
of the foregoing prohibitory conditions. 

54. That it shall not be subjected to agitation, 

55. That it shall not be exposed to the heat of the sun. 

56. That the delivery wagons shall be so constructed that 
the required temperature of the milk may be maintained dur- 
ing transit. 

57. That before the wagons are filled for shipment, the body, 
the trays and compartments shall be tiushed with boiling water. 

58. It is furthermore agreed that the distributing agents 
shall, during the transfer of the milk from the dairy to the 
purchaser, be subject to the following restrictions, namely: 

59. That they shall use no tobacco or intoxicating drinks. 

60. That they shall not collect the empty containers, nor 
receive money or milk checks from houses in which an infec- 
tious or contagious disease is known to exist. 

61. It is also hereby agreed that the collection of empty 
bottles, from places where infectious or contagious disease is 
known to exist, shall be made by other persons that those em- 
ployed to deliver the milk. 

62. That these collections be made with wagons not em- 
ployed in the distribution of the milk. 

63. That before these empty bottles shall be returned to the 
dairy, they shall be carried to a separate building and first be 
subjected to the process of cleaning bottles indicated in a 
former clause of this contract. 

64. It is hereby understood and agreed, that if any further 
precautions or changes in method, calculated to improve the 
quality of milk, or guard the same from impurities or dangers, 
are desired, that the party of the second part will cheerfully be 
governed by such additional rules and regulations as may 
be laid down by the parties of the first part. 

65. It is understood and agreed by the party of the second 
part, the same binding the owners, agents or assigns of the 
aforesaid dairy, that the product known as certified milk shall 
be under the following restrictions in its sale, namely: That 
until the amount required within the boundaries of Essex 



FIRST AMERICAN AGREEMENT 267 

county shall first be supplied, it shall not be sold beyond these 
limits, except that the parties of the first part shall give their 
consent. 

66. It is furthermore agreed by the party of the second 
part, the same binding the owners, agents or assigns of the 
aforesaid dairy, that in the event of a failure to comply with 
any or all of the requirements of the foregoing contract, the 
party of the first part shall reserve the right to withdraw from 
the contract, and publish the fact in such manner as they 
deem best. 

67. Finally, it is understood and agreed that nothing in 
this contract shall prevent the obrogation of any of the pro- 
visions of the same, by the parties of the first part, provided 
that it shall be done for the purpose of substituting other 
provisions, designed to promote the objects of their organiza- 
tion. 

68. It is further understood and agreed by and between 
the parties hereto, that the party of the second part shall be 
at liberty to cancel this agreement by giving two months' 
notice in writing, of his desire to do so, in case of inability for 
any reason, to comply with the terms of the same. 



APPENDIX VI. 

The Second Interim Report of the Royal Commission on 
Human and Animal Tuberculosis was issued in January, 1907. 
It presents the conclusions of the commission after thorough 
and extensive investigations covering more than five years. 

The report is signed by Sir Michael Foster, Prof. G. Sims 
Woodhead, Prof. Sidney Martin, Sir John McFadyean and 
Prof. Rubert Boyce. 

The following is an extract: 

CONCLUSION 

'^ We may briefly sum up the bearings of the results at 
which we have already arrived as follows: 

" There can he no doubt hut that in a certain number of 
cases the tuberculosis occurring in the human subject, es- 
pecially in children, is the direct result of the introduction into 
the human body of the bacillus of bovine tuberculosis ; and 
there also can be no doubt that in the majority at least of 
these cases the bacillus is introduced through cows' milk. 
Cows' milk containing bovine tubercle bacilli is clearly a cause 
of tuberculosis and of fatal tnbercidosis in man.* 

" Of the sixty cases of human tuberculosis investigated by 
us, fourteen of the viruses belonged to Group I, that is to say 
contained the bovine bacillus. If, instead of taking all these 
sixty cases, we confine ourselves to cases of tuberculosis in 
which the bacilli were apparently introduced into the body by 
way of the alimentary canal, the proportion of Group I becomes 
very much larger. Of the total sixty cases investigated by us, 
twenty-eight possessed clinical histories indicating that in them 
the bacillus was introduced through the alimentary canal. Of 
these, thirteen belong to Group T. Of the nine cases in which 
cervical glands were studied by us three, and of the nineteen 

* Original not italicized. 

269 



270 MILK HYGIENE 

cases in which the lesions of abdominal tuberculosis were 
studied by us, ten belong to Group I. 

' ' These facts indicate that a very large proportion of tuber- 
culosis contracted by ingestion is due to tubercle bacilli of 
bovine source. 

^' A very considerable amount of disease and loss of life, 
especially among the young, must he attributed to the consump- 
tion of cows' milk containing tubercle bacilli. The presence 
of tubercle bacilli in cows' milk can be detected, though with 
some difficulty, if the proper means be adopted, and such ought 
never to be used as food. There is far less difficulty in recog- 
nizing clinically that a cow is distinctly suffering from tuber- 
culosis, in which case she may be yielding tuberculosis milk. 
The milk coming from such a cow ought not to form part 
of human food, and indeed ought not to be used as food at all. 

'^ Our results clearly point to the necessity of measures 
more stringent than those at present enforced being taken 
to prevent the sale or the consumption of such milk." 



INDEX 



Abdominal tuberculosis, 78 
Abnormal coloration, 56 
odors and tastes, 55 
Abortion, 41 

Absorption of odors, 68, 69 
Acid, benzoic, 64 

boric, 62 

citric, 150 

lactic, 52 

reaction, 227 

salicylic, 63 
Acid-fast bacteria, 81 
Acidobutyrometer, Gerber's, 209 
Actinomycosis, 92 

and tumors, 48 
Addition of lactose or cane sugar, 

221 
Admixture of dirt, 126, 127 
Advantages derived from pasteur- 
izing market milk, 138 
Adulteration, frequency of, 197 

of cream, 225 

partly skimmed and skimmed 
miik, 225 
Adulterations, effects of, 224 
Age of the cow, 29 
Albumin, 14 
Alcohol test, 229 
Alkalies, 68 
Alkaline reaction, 227 
Alkaloids, 49 
Alpine cattle, milk of, 40 
Amphoteric reaction, 227 
Anthrax, 90 
Antiseptics, 61-68 
Appearance of milk, 226 
Arnold's guaiac method, 192 
Arsenic, 60 
Asiatic cholera, 117 
Ass's milk, 24 

Attendants, health of, 178, 185 
Automatic temperature-regulator, 
134 



Babcoek's method, 214 
Backhaus's infants' milk, 151 
Bacteria, acid-fast, 81 

in dung of cows, 127 
market milk, 122 
milk, 120 

of putrefaction, 61, 229 

pathogenic, 129 
Bacteriological examinations, 231 
Beast milk, 12 
Beet taste, 40 
Benzoic acid, 64 
Bitch's milk, 25 
Blue milk, 56 

Board of Health lactometer, 203 
Boiled taste, 59 
Boric acid, 62 
Breed peculiarities, 27 
Buffalo's milk, 23 
Burnt taste, 40 
Buttermilk, 191 

Calf cholera, 101, 125 
Carbohydrates, 18 
Carbolic odor, 69 
Casein, 14, 16 
Catarrh, mucous, 46 

purulent, 46 
Cat's milk, 25 
Cell protoplasm, 14 
Cells, degenerated, 13 
Certified milk in America, 259 

Philadelphia, 251 
Changes in milk, 51-58 

at high temperatures, 58, 59 
the secretion, 46-48 
Cholera, Asiatic, 117 

calf, 101, 125 
Citric acid, 150 
Cleanliness, 176 
Colostrum, 12, 29, 30 

bodies, 12 
Composition of milk, 21-26 
271 



272 



INDEX 



Constituents of milk, 15-21 

Contamination with bacteria, 120- 
126 
organisms, 104-120 

Control of milk in cities, 197 

Contusions of the uclder and teats, 
45 

Cooler, 135 

Copenhagen Milk Supply Com- 
pany, 159 

Cow, disease of, 42 

Cowpox, 89 

Cow's milk, 21 

Cream, 191 

adulteration of, 225 

Curd feniientation, 230 

Daily variations, 34 
Dairy farm inspector, 107, 168 
Degenerated cells, 13 
Determination of fat content of 

milk, 208 
Digestion, 147 
Dilution of whole milk with water, 

219 
Diphtheria, 112 

bacilli, 114 
Dirt, 127 
Disease of the cow, 42 

Effects of various adulterations, 

224 
Embolism and thrombosis, 45 
Enteritis, 98 

Examinations, bacteriological, 231 
for dirt, 235 
pus, 234 
Excretion of foreign matter, 
48-50 
of poisonous substances with 
milk, 60, 61 
Exercise and work, 42 

Farm conditions, 257 
Fats, 19 

Fatty degeneration, 14 
Feeding the herd, 173 
Feniientation, curd, 230 

test, 229 
Feser's lactoscope, 198 



Fjord pasteurizer, 132, 133 
Food, influence of, 37 
Foot-and-mouth disease, 87 

virus of, 89 
Foreign matter, excretion of, 48 
Formaldehyde, 66 
Formalin, 66 
Formol, 66 

Galaetase, 20 

Gangrenous mastitis, 47 

Gartner's fat milk, 151 

Gases, 20 

Gerber's acidobutyrometer, 209 

Globulin, 14 

Goat's milk, 23 

Half milk, 190 

skimmed milk, 190 
Harmful properties of milk, 60 
Health of the attendants, 178 
Herd, attendants of, 178 

feeding the, 173 

health^ of, 169 

sample, 201 

sudden changes in food of, 176 

Indigestion, 101 
Individual peculiarities, 28 
Infant mortality, 126 
Infection by milk, 70-104 
Infectious diseases, 103 
Influence of food, 37 
Inorganic salts, 20 
Inspection of the milk, 10 
Intestinal tuberculosis, 72 
Iodine, 60 

Lactalbumin, 18 

Lactation period, 29 

Lactic acid, 52 

Laetodensimeter, Quevenne's, 202 

Lactoglobulin, 18 

Lactometer, Board of Health, 203 

Lactoscope, Feser's, 198 

Lactose, 14, 18, 221 

Lecithin, 150 

Leffmann-Beam method, 213 

Legal standards, 187, 188 

Lung plague, 92 



INDEX 



273 



Mare's milk, 23 
Mastitis, 46, 93, 125 

gangrenous, 47 

parenchymatous, 47 
Medicines, 43 
INIerciiry, 60 
Method, Arnold's guaiac, 192 

Babcock, 214 

Leffmann-Beam, 213 

Soxhlet's, 208 

Storch's, 192 
Metritis, 125 
Milk, acidity of, 228 

appearance of, 226 

ass's, 24 

Backhaus's infants', 151 

bacteria in, 120 
market, 122 

beast, 12 

bitch's, 25 

blue, 56 

bottling of, 196 

buffalo's, 23 

care of, 180 

certified, 251 

changes in, 51-59 

commission, 163 

composition of, 21-26 

constituents, 15-21 

containers, 193 

control, 9, 10 
of in cities, 197 

cow's, 21 

determination of fat content 
of, 208 

dilution of whole with water, 
219 

elephant's, 26 

epidemics, 104 

fat, 19 

for infants, 147 

Gartner's fat, 151 

glands, 12-15 

goat's, 23 

half, 190 

skimmed, 190 

harmful properties of, 60 

infection by, 70-104 

inspection of, 10 



Milk, keeping and selling, 184 

legal standards for, 188 

mare's, 23 

modified, 152 

nursery, 249, 250 

odor of, 226 

of the Alpine cattle, 40 

of the cat, 25 

packing of, 185 

pasteurized, 191 

pasteurizing market, 138 

preparations, 193 

preparing for delivery, 182 

public control of, 157, 158 

public supervision of, 196, 226 

putrid, 123 

rabbit's, 26 

red, 56 

regulation of production of, 
164-181 

regulation of sale of, 182-196 

reindeer's, 26 

retailing in cities, 159 

sale and delivery of, 182 

secretion, 12-15 

sheep's, 23 

sickness, 103 

skimmed, 190 

slimy, 124 

specific gravity of, 197, 202 

sterilization of, 142 

sterilized, 192 

sour, 123 

sow's, 25 

taste of, 226 

transparency of, 197 

tubercle bacilli in, 73 
mixed, 81 

unclean or dirty, 235 

variations in, 24-26 

Voltmer's mother's, 151 

voluntary control of, 163 

whole, 186 

woman's, 24 

yellow, 57 

zebu's, 22 
Milking, method of, 31 

time of, 31 
Miliary tuberculosis, 73 



274 



INDEX 



Modified milk, 152 

Mortality amon^' children, 154 

Mucous catarrh, 46 

Nitrate and nitrites, 221 
Nurseiy milk, 249, 250 
Nymphomania, 41 

Odor, carbolic, 69 

of milk, 227 
Odors, 69 

abnormal, 55 

absorption of, 68, 69, 70 
CEstrum, 41 
Oily taste, 56 
Ovariotomy, 41 

Paracasein, 17 
Parenchymatous mastitis, 47 
Partial skimming, 218 
Partly skimmed, adulteration of. 

225 
Pasteurization, 128-142 

objections to, 139 

quick, 131 
Pasteurized milk, 191 
Pasteurizer, Fjord, 131 
Pasteurizing- a fluid, 128 

market milk, 138 
Pathogenic bacteria, 129 
Pepsin digestion, 17 
Peptone, 123 
Potassium bichromate, 65 
Preparing for delivery, 182 
Preservatives, 61-68 
Preserving samples for analvsis, 

201 
Proteids, 16 

Pseudo-tubercle bacilli, 81 
Public supervision, 196, 226 
Purulent catarrh, 46 
Putrid milk, 123 

Quevenne's lactodensimeter, 202 

Rabbit's milk, 26 
Rabies, 91 

Rapid method for determining 
acidity of milk, 228 



Reaction, 227 

acid, 227 

alkaline, 227 

amphoteric, 227 
Red milk, 56 
Regenerative heater, 144 
Regulation of production, 164- 
181 
sale, 182-196 
Reindeer's milk, 26 
Retailing milk in cities, 159 

Sale and delivery, 182 
Salicylic acid, 63 
Salts, 20 

Sample, herd, 201 
Samples, preserving, 201 

taking, 200 
Scarlet fever, 115 
Sediment, 126 
Septic metritis, 101 
Sexual conditions, significance of, 

40 
Sheep's milk, 23 
Skimmed milk, 190 
Skimmed milk, adulteration of, 

225 
Skimming of whole milk in con- 
junction with addition of 

water, 222 
partial, 218 
Slimy milk, 124 
Soapy taste, 56 
Sore throat, 119 
Sour milk, 123 
Sow's milk, 25 
Soxhlet's method, 208 
Specific gravity, 197 

of milk and whey, 202 

whey, 206 
Stage of the lactation period, 29 
Sterilization, 130, 142-146 
Sterilized milk, 192 
Storch's method, 192 
Sudden changes in food of herd, 

176 
Suppurative processes, 102 

Tabes mesenteriea, 78 
Taking samples, 200 



INDEX 



275 



Taste, beet, 40 

boiled, 59 

burnt, 40 

of milk, 229 

oily, 57 

soapy, 57 
Tastes, abnormal, 55 
Temporary changes, 38 
Test, alcohol, 229 

fermentation, 229 
Transparency of milk, 197 
Trifolium Milk Supply Co., 

239-247 
Toxic substances, 60 
Tubercle bacilli in milk, 72 
mixed milk, 81 
separation of, 85 
temperature at which killed, 
86 
Tuberculosis, 71-87 

abdominal, 78 

broncho-pneumonia, 72 

in cattle, 71 

intestinal, 72 

miliary, 73 

udder, 48, 71 
Tumors, 48 
Typhoid bacillus, 110 

fever, 106 



Unclean or dirty milk, 235 
Udder and teats, contusion of, 45 

inflammation of (mastitis), 93 

oedema, 46 

tuberculosis, 48, 71 
Unsanitary practices in bottling. 



Variations in cow's milk, 26-45 

Viscog-en, 226 

Viscosity, 58 

Volatile oils, 60 

Voltmer's mother's milk, 151 

Voluntary control of milk, 163 

Water, 16 

supply, 179 
Whey proteid, 17 

specific gravity of, 202, 206 
Whole milk, 186 

dilution of with water, 219 
skimming of in conjunction 
with water, 222 
Woman's milk, 24 

Yellow milk, 57 

Zebu's milk, 22 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Do not 

remove 

the card 

from this 

Pocket. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBEAET BUREAU, Boston 




