m 



■If 




w 



M 




M 



5 







I 



m 



Class _ 4 Xt3-&. 
Book > 4 fc 

Copyright N° 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



L 






g £ 



w? 



fill 




^is 



55? 



m 



m 



m 



br 




¥¥? 




m 



m 



e 



r^m 



w £b* m 



m 






?. 



ua 






2/ 



Sunday 
Suppers 






By 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

Author of " The Expert Maid Servant," " The 
Chafing-Dish Supper," etc. 




BOSTON 

DANA ESTES & COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



& 



7b 






m 



JlfBltARYoJ CONGRESS 

Two Conies Received 

AUG 19 190/ 

'cLAS//* XXel, No. 



" 



3 









> 



o^ 



Copyright, zgoy 
By Dana Estes & Company 

All rights reservtd 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



& 



vTnlnulal JJrrnn 

Electiotyped and Printed by C. H. Simondt & Co. 

Botton. U.S. A. 



m 



w 



CONTENTS 

¥ ¥ 

Chapter 

I. THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER . 

II. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR IN. 

TIMATE GUESTS 

III. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS A 

SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION . 

IV. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR HOT 

WEATHER ....... 

V. UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND SWEETS . 
VI. COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY NIGHT 

SUPPER 

VII. CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS . . . 
VIII. ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR SUNDAY 

NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES . . . 



ife: 



^ 
^ 



Pagt 
II 



23 

35 

47 
61 

75 
89 

103 



£b 




^ 




^ 



THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT 
SUPPER 



*tK 



M 



y ^ 



^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

¥ ¥ 

CHAPTER I 

THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 

IN most homes the Sunday night supper is a com- 
promise. Like the majority of compromises, it sat- 
isfies no one. It is an attempt to serve God and 
Mammon, respectively represented by the family's de- 
sires and the cook's preferences, and is thoroughly 
acceptable to neither. The members of the household, 
no matter how substantial the midday meal with which 
they have overtaxed the digestions accustomed to a 
light luncheon, feel a hollow void, a dismal craving, as 
the hour approaches when dinner is usually served on 
the unhallowed days of the week. The spirit is willing 
to keep the Sabbath, but the flesh is weak. Despite 
long once-a-weekly training, it yearns for something 
better than it has known on most preceding Sunday 
nights. 

That would be a bold spirit who would venture to 
11 




w 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

suggest a late dinner on Sunday. Common sense may 
advise it, the perishing body may cry out in protest 
against having its regular habits interfered with, and 
the digestion butchered to make a kitchen holiday. 
It is of no avail. Some few unregenerates there be 
who still persist in keeping their living even-threaded 
the whole week through, and who dine at the same 
hour on Sunday as on other days. But they don't 
win a martyr's crown or the kudos that should be 
bestowed upon the heroic leaders of a popular reform. 
They are criticized adversely, as a rule, and the suf- 
ferers who make a merit of necessity by declaring they 
do not care for grapes anyhow, assert boldly, " But we 
//&e supper once a week. We all enjoy it for a 
change." 

It is a change, there is no doubt of that! But is 
it really hailed with joy? Does the family assemble 
for it with any measure of the pleasant anticipation 
that greets the announcement, " Dinner is served " ? 
I trow not! 

Sweeping statements are always dangerous, but there 
is no one of ordinary candor who cannot marshal in 
his memory a dismal array of Sunday night supper- 
tables. As a rule, they are melancholy reminders of 
past joys in the shape of the cold relics of Saturday 
12 





4& 



w iqg 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

night's or Sunday noon's dinner. Baked meats that 
were known and loved earlier — when hot — now 
coldly furnish forth the evening meal. In nine cases 
out of ten the housekeeper has so strained her invent- 
ive powers by the effort to do the marketing of two 
days in one, to plan something that will be available 
for the wash-day lunch and spare the cook too much 
labor over the wash-day dinner, that the provision for 
the Sunday night supper seems a matter of the last 
importance — literally. The housekeeper leaves the 
meal to Providence, with the usual result that awaits 
upon blind trust in Providence unbacked by human 
endeavor. At the last moment the cold meat is sliced, 
the cold bread is cut, the cold sweet brought forth, 
and a calch-as-catch-can meal is spread out to deaden 
hunger if it cannot tempt the appetite. The powers 
that be in the kitchen are possibly pleased. No 
others ! 

Take the honest verdict of most citizens, and see if 
it would not be : " We don't care much for supper 
at our house on Sunday night. You see, we have 
such a hearty meal in the middle of the day," etc. 
You recognize the formula? We have all heard it 
often enough. 

Yet there are great possibilities in the Sunday night 

13 /& 





m «; 



w 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



11 



supper. It may be made a most attractive meal, which 
will render one willing to have it or another like it 
come again in a week, instead of arousing thankfulness 
that the Sunday night supper arrives but once in seven 
days. It will mean trouble, of course. If there is but 
one maid and she goes out every other Sunday, and 
the family cannot flee for refuge to the house of a 
friend or to a restaurant alternate Sunday nights, after 
the fashion of those who refuse to take the appointed 
discipline that comes their way, the housekeeper will 
have to cultivate the chafing-dish habit, make a study 
of salads, devote herself to the perusal of cook-books 
that give attention to attractive cold dishes, and even 
reconcile herself to half an hour in the kitchen on 
Sunday afternoon. 

Of course it is a nuisance. There are certain young 
housekeepers who have not yet overworked their ideals, 
and a few older ones who have preserved theirs by 
some special dispensation, who declare they find joy 
in going into their kitchens once a week and getting 
supper. The great army of women who keep maids 
are usually so discouraged by the difference between 
the kitchen as they wish it to be, and the kitchen as 
it is — a state of affairs which the preparation of the 
Sunday night supper affords exceptional opportunities 
14 



3 fo fl fi 



w — ^P 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

for observing — that the delights of getting a meal even 
once a fortnight are not unmixed with distress. And 
when a woman does her own work all through the 
week, she is hardly to be blamed if, by the time 
Sunday night comes, she feels that she would like to 
drop the burden for awhile and give herself a few 
hours' rest before she resumes the load that is await- 
ing her on Monday morning. 

When I think of all this, I blush for shame that I 
should venture to criticize even dry slices of overdone 
beef, unchilled salads, and stale bread, with perhaps 
canned fruit and cake to lend a pseudo-festive air to 
the occasion. Still, it would have been very little 
more trouble to make the beef hot in a savory sauce, 
to have the salad crisp and well dressed, to toast the 
bread. Or, better still, the Sunday night supper might 
have been planned for on Saturday morning. It is 
likely that the cake was made then in the thought of 
its use on Sunday. A little forethought would have 
arranged that the same meat should not appear at 
both dinner and supper. Keep the beef left-overs 
until Monday, but don't have them when the more 
juicy and appetizing memories of their first appearance 
are still fresh on the palate. 

I have all sympathy for the woman who lives twelve 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



miles from a lemon, and further still from a fancy 
grocery. But there are few women who may not in 
this day and generation have in the house the emer- 
gency supplies that make a good hot dish for supper 
possible. Cheese is always with us and may appear 
in any one of a dozen forms. The tin can accom- 
panies the pioneer on his travels, and its contents may 
be converted into a relish that will redeem any supper 
from the charge of commonplaceness. The salad in 
its green variety cannot always be with us, but a sub- 
stitute for lettuce and chicory and endive and Romaine 
may be achieved by the aid of the cabbage, the 
potato, the onion, the egg, to say nothing of the 
canned asparagus, or tomato, or beet, or bean, or 
green pea. A little thought will c it all, and more 
even than I have suggested. 

I have not touched upon eggs as yet, except as 
they may serve in a salad. But the half has never 
been told of what the egg may do as a savory supper 
dish. Alone, in combination, hot, cold, boiled hard, 
plain, or with a sauce, elaborately or simply cooked 
— those who know eggs only as they have encoun- 
tered them in such primitive forms as boiled, fried, 
poached, or scrambled, have yet much, much to learn. 
And eggs, at least, are usually within reach. I guard 
16 



&\ 



rf 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

my statement, recollecting the terrible dearth of eggs 
familiar to dwellers in the country, and comparatively 
unknown to those who live in cities. There are times 
of year when eggs are costly, but even at their high- 
est they are cheaper than meat, and when combined 
with left-overs will go further than would seem cred- 
ible to the uninitiated. 

I have spoken of toast — toast the maligned, the mis- 
understood. There are not wanting those who think 
they haye known toast all their lives, and who yet 
have no knowledge of it at its highest perfection. It 
is worth the trouble to give them the joy which 
would accompany the great awakening that would be 
theirs could they once eat toast as it may be. The 
crust trimmed off, the bread cut neither too thick nor 
too thin, not too ^ale and not too brown, oversoftness 
and undue hardness both avoided, the butter evenly 
spread, not dumped to form one greasy hollow in the 
centre of the slice — such toast as this may make a 
Sunday night supper well worth while, even if served 
with plain cold meat 

Such buttered toast might well banish demands for 
any variation in the bread supply, and yet even with 
this there may be an occasional new sensation planned. 
Anchovy toast, baked toast, tomato toast, egg toast — 

& N A 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

here again is a field for new departures and many 
inventions. 

The home supper-table should attract the eye as 
well as coax the appetite. It should not be like the 
supper-tables of any common week-day night. This 
is the time to bring forth the best china and glass, 
especially if the members of the family are going to 
wash them afterwards. There should be the prettiest 
napery used. The table should have nothing of the 
slapdash about it. If there are younger members of 
the household who are urged to take part in getting 
the Sunday night supper, they should be given their 
heads in rendering the table as charming as possible. 
Let them plan surprises of any sort. 

If they wish to have home-made candies and salted 
nuts of their own manufacture as a part of the feast, 
encourage the inclinations. Don't let the meal be the 
scrap-bag of the commissariat or the left-over odd 
number of the week. Give it a chance to redeem 
itself from the obloquy into which it has generally 
fallen. 

I wish I could head an insurrection against the 
Sunday night supper as it is usually met. It would be 
swept out of existence with a celerity that would be 
astonishing even in this day of rapid transit. Gone 



w ^^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

forever would be the supper-table of one section of 
the country — the plate of cold chipped beef or dried 
codfish, the pile of white and brown bread, the little 
dishes of apple sauce, the large pale ginger cookies. 
Gone, too, would be that other variety of supper-table 
which thinks to make up for its lack of savory dishes 
by its much cake. I am afraid even baked beans and 
brown bread, beloved though they are by certain worthy 
beings, might not stand against the besom of destruction. 

Instead of any or all of these the supper-table that 
should supplant them should be a board of surprises. 
The Sunday night supper should be the unexpected 
feast of the week. At this meal the family would 
never know what to look for. One time the repast 
would be hot and savory, the next it would be cold 
but no less savory. New and startling salads would 
make their first bow, so to speak, at the Sunday night 
supper-table, and it would be the housekeeper's dis- 
sipation to devise and search out novelties for this 
meal. Here she should give rein to any pioneering 
or adventurous spirit she had in her, and train her 
family to equal daring. 

All this does not mean — as it may sound — that 
the Sunday night supper should be an expensive or 
unwholesome meal. All I plead for is its release from 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



the trammels of conventionality. Forget the hackneyed, 
the usual, the stereotyped. Essay new endeavors. 
Make this the festival of the week. In language 
suitable to the day, let the Sunday night supper have 
free course and be glorified. 



^x 2o A 



ft* qp 



THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
INTIMATE GUESTS 



/S 



^ m 



w ^ 



CHAPTER II 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
INTIMATE GUESTS 



T 



HE thoughtful housekeeper will refrain from making 
unnecessary toil for the man servant and maid 
servant within her gates on the first day of the week, 
but she will so plan her work that she may have a 
place for a friend on Sunday at her dinner or supper 
table, and feel that she is indulging in one of those 
"works of necessity and mercy," which are counte- 
nanced even by the Westminster catechism. 

The noon dinner has its advantages as a time for 
the intimate guest, but they are not equal to those of 
the Sunday night supper. There is almost always 
something that may be done on Sunday afternoon. 
Calls may be paid, in tolerable weather it is the time 
preeminently for long walks or for lazy indoor rest. 
But Sunday evening is different. Then the hours may 
be inclined to hang a trifle heavily and one welcomes 
a fashion of spending them pleasantly. 

When I speak of intimate guests at the Sunday 



w — qg 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

night supper I refer to those for whom no elaborate 
preparations need be made. If the right sort of effort 
is given to convert the often cold and unattractive 
Sunday night supper into a pleasing and appetizing meal, 
no greater labor is involved by the presence of a visitor 
than the placing of another plate at the table, and 
the washing of a few more dishes afterwards. I know 
of some households in which the guests are allowed 
to come out into the kitchen and take merry part in 
the preparation of the meal. The recollection is with 
me of a certain spotless kitchen, its walls covered with 
enamelled blue and white oilcloth, the painted floor 
softened here and there by a rug, where I have seen 
one young man laboriously toasting bread while an- 
other devoted the best powers of his mind to making 
drip coffee. The mushrooms that were to go on the 
toast were cooked afterwards in the chafing-dish, by 
the daughter of the house, while the son compounded 
the salad on the supper-table. 

Such a feast as this is an especial treat to the 
young men and women who are away from home 
and dwell in boarding-houses. Mission work it might 
be called, to invite them for the Sunday night meal 
that is so forlorn to the exile from home comforts. 
Perhaps the boon is as great to the overworked 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



housekeeper, who is tired to death of her own table 
and longs for a taste of food that has been planned 
and purchased by some one else. She knows how to 
appreciate the good things that are set before her! 

It is a mistake to think that a servant must be 
kept at home for such a festivity as this. Perhaps it is 
a help to have her when the labor of washing up 
succeeds the meal, — but even this may be turned into 
a frolic. The work of making ready for the feast may 
nearly all have been done earlier in the day or on 
Saturday morning. 

It is little trouble to plan out a few attractive menus 
for Sunday night suppers. Cold meat is often taken for 
granted, and there are combinations in which it may be 
attractive. But if the meat is cold there should be 
something to offset it For instance, there may be cold 
meat and a salad, or cold meat and aspic jelly. These 
do well for warm weather, but in winter the stomach 
pleads for something more savory. Then is the time 
to have fried green peppers or fried tomatoes, — when 
fresh tomatoes can not be bought the whole canned 
tomatoes are excellent to have fried or devilled. Lyon- 
naise potatoes are good with cold meat, and there 
are other savory ways of preparing vegetables. 

But perhaps cold meat is more attractive when it is 

p* & — & *n 






SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

not cold, — if the bull may be pardoned. That is, it 
may be made hot in some way that will tempt the 
palate far more than if it appeared in its cold state. 
Such cookery may be done in the kitchen or on the 
table in a chafing-dish. Or the cold meat may be 
dispensed with altogether and its place taken by a 
dish of eggs or one of shell-fish or cheese. The 
dwellers near the coast may make good use of oysters 
and clams and scallops and lobsters; those who live 
further inland will find their mainstay in eggs and 
cheese. 

The salad is not to be overlooked. If one can 
not obtain the green salad except at a high price, — 
and there are localities where it can only be found 
during the weather when it will grow out-of-doors, — 
vegetables may be used in salad and will be found 
delicious. There are good boiled dressings, — nearly 
all housekeepers have two or three on their list, — and 
some of the best vegetable salads are better with a 
boiled dressing than even with a mayonnaise. 

On the question of sweets perhaps it is not neces- 
sary to dwell at length. Generally they are better 
understood than are savories. The housekeeper turns to 
her store of canned or preserved fruit for her Sunday 
night dessert, and this she supplements by cake made 
26 

■8 * m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

on Saturday. Or she prepares jelly or blanc- mange 
or pastry on Saturday. The sweet requires less 
thought than anything else. 

There are some households, mostly of New Eng- 
land origin, where brown bread and baked beans are 
a welcome dish for Sunday night supper. If the 
dwellers in other parts of the country can not quite 
understand this taste, they may yet respect it and con- 
gratulate its possessors upon the ease with which they 
can gratify it. 

FRIED TOMATOES * * 

If the tomatoes are fresh, cut them into thick slices, 
without peeling. If canned whole, slice them, and if 
the ordinary canned tomatoes are used, select the 
firmest portions and drain off the liquor. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into a frying-pan or into the blazer 
of a chafing-dish ; lay in the tomatoes ; if fresh, let 
them cook until tender; if canned, until hot through. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAMED TOMATOES * * 

These may be fried as in the foregoing recipe. 
When hot through, draw them to one side of the pan 
and stir into the tomato juice and melted butter two 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir quickly, that it may blend 
before it browns, add a scant half-pint of milk, and 
continue to stir until you have a smooth sauce. Move 
the tomatoes back into the sauce ; season and serve. 



BEEF WITH TOMATO SAUCE * * 

Heat together a tablespoon of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of good tomato catsup, and a cupful of stock, 
soup, or gravy. When this is smoking hoi, lay in the 
slices of beef, turn them over in the sauce until heated 
through, add pepper and salt, and serve. Any cold 
meat may be used in this way, and veal or mutton is 
even better than beef when warmed over in this sauce. 

DEVILLED BEEF OR MUTTON * * 

Rather underdone meat should be used. Work a 
saltspoonful of dry mustard and a dash of cayenne 
into a tablespoonful of butter, and cream this, using a 
fork, with a teaspoonful each of vinegar and Worces- 
tershire sauce and a half-teaspoonful of salt. Have 
your meat cut into rather thin slices ; make gashes in 
this with a knife and rub in the " devilled " mixture. 
Heat a little butter in a frying-pan, — very little, — and 
grill the meat in this. If desired, it may be cooked 
in the blazer of a chafing-dish. 

A ft f m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



SAVORY SMOKED BEEF ¥ ¥ 

Heat a cupful of milk over the fire or in a chafing- 
dish and put with it a tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until melted. Lay in a cupful or more of dried 
beef, cut into rather small pieces or thin slices ; cook 
five minutes, turn in two beaten eggs, and stir until 
the sauce is thick. Add a little pepper and serve 
on toast or on hot crackers 

SAVORY MINCE OF COLD MEAT ¥ ¥ 

This can be prepared in a chafing-dish. Melt a 
tablespoonful of butter or good dripping, and add to 
it half a teaspoonful of onion juice. Put into this 
chopped cold meat of any sort, and moisten it to the 
consistency you desire with the gravy saved from the 
roast. Chicken is especially good cooked in this way. 
Season with celery salt and pepper, and, with any- 
thing except chicken, put in a tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce at the last. If beef is used, as much 
chopped potato as meat may be added if desired. 



FRIED CHEESE SANDWICHES ¥ ¥ 

Grate a cupful of soft fresh cheese. Make it into 
a paste with cream, and season with a quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and a pinch of paprica or black 



^ * A 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

pepper. Spread this on thin slices of bread, from 
which the crust has been cut, and put the spread 
sides together like sandwiches. Lay in a little 
hot butter in a frying pan or blazer, and brown 
lightly. 

AN UNUSUAL POTATO SALAD ¥ ¥ 

Every one knows the stock potato salad. The fol- 
lowing is a different thing: 

Rub two cups of mashed potato through a colan- 
der. Chop fine three-quarters of a cupful of white 
cabbage. Mince two tablespoonfuls of gherkin pickles, 
pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix all 
together. Prepare the dressing, by heating to boiling 
half a cupful of vinegar, stirring into it a beaten egg, 
a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of white sugar, 
a saltspoonful of celery salt, and black pepper and 
salt to taste. Wet a teaspoonful of flour with a little 
cold vinegar and add to these. Cook all together, 
stirring constantly until the dressing thickens, and then 
pour it upon the salad. Toss and mix with a silver 
fork and let the salad be ice cold before serving. If 
chopped celery can be used instead of the cabbage, 
the salad is better. 

It is years since I first ate this salad down in the 

& ■ ■" O R 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



Old Dominion, but I think it now, as I thought it 
then, the best potato salad I ever tasted. 

CABBAGE AND CHEESE * * 

This is another dish that may be made ready in 
advance and that is delicious with cold meat Boil 
the cabbage in two waters, drain, and, when cold, 
chop it. Put a layer of it, well-seasoned with salt 
and pepper, in a buttered bake-dish. Pour on this a 
white sauce, made by cooking together a tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour until they bubble, mixing with 
these a cupful of milk and stirring until all are thick and 
well blended. Season with salt and pepper. On the 
white sauce, when it has been poured over the cab- 
bage, sprinkle a heaping tablespoonful of grated 
cheese. Put in more cabbage, and repeat the sauce 
and cheese until the dish is filled, making cheese with 
a few fine crumbs the last layer. Bake, covered, 
about half an hour, then uncover and brown. 



3k !! Jk 



m * m \ 






THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS 
A SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION 



^ m 



w ^ 



CHAPTER III 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS A 
SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION 

0"UNDAY entertaining has gained in popularity 
*^ during the past ten years. As we have drifted 
further away from the Jewish Sabbath with its Puri- 
tan modifications we have achieved a compromise 
between that rigidly observed rest day and the Con- 
tinental Sabbath. The latter does not bid fair to gain 
a strong place in the affections of the people at large. 
No infusion of foreign blood, no admiration of foreign 
customs by the smart sets in big cities, is likely to 
have a lasting effect upon the great mass of the 
people who were nurtured in the traditions held by 
the founders of the republic. 

Yet one extreme has happily modified the other. 
Few are the Sabbatarians even who do not appre- 
ciate the fact that Sunday should mean a change of 
thought and a relaxation to those who work hard 
all the week. Moreover, there are busy men and 
women who are too much driven on week-days by 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



inexorable business to find any lime for social rec- 
reation. These do not yearn for Sunday night 
theatres and concerts or large and fashionable assem- 
blages in the afternoon and evening of that day. 
They would revolt against this almost as vigorously 
as one of the Pilgrim Fathers himself would have 
done. 

But when it is a question of a pleasant home- 
like little gathering on Sunday evening, where from 
four to a dozen pleasant people gather at the house 
of one of them to eat and chat together, he con- 
siders it another matter, and justly. This is no gay 
affair, which smacks of Sabbath-breaking, but a rest- 
ful reunion where those who have striven mightily all 
the week may eat and drink as friends, and gather 
courage and stimulus to help them through the hard 
work of the week that lies before them. 

There is a tremendous help to work in such 
gatherings of congenial souls. Very long ago it was 
said that as iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth 
the countenance of his friend. And Lowell — a 
much later but still worthy authority ! — remarked that 
books were excellent dry fodder, you could sustain 
life on them, but only the true living pasturage is men, 
— or words to that effect. Never was there a brain 
36 





^s 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



worker of a social turn who did not appreciate the 
force of both remarks. The meeting of persons who 
are interested in the same things or who, if not 
similar in tastes, are yet one in aspiration and de- 
sire for the real things of life, is one of the most 
potent tonics to renewed and better effort. 

A certain absence of ceremony marks the Sun- 
day evening social gathering of the kind I have in 
mind. The men feel under no obligation to don 
evening clothes, the women wear pretty house gowns 
with no attempt at showy dressing. Form and cere- 
mony are at a discount, and the atmosphere is — or 
should be — that of a pleasant family gathering. 

Care must be exercised in choosing the guests for 
such a function. This is not the time to bring a 
number of strangers together. One or two may be 
admitted to the circle, but the majority should be on 
such terms with one another that the party shall 
really spell rest and not the strain inseparable from 
many supper-parties. 

The supper itself should not be elaborate, and 
may be served in the fashion that seems most con- 
venient. I have been to many of these affairs and 
the most unconventional have always been the most 
delightful. One house I recall where the inevitable 




<ff 



^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

Sunday night supper was a Welsh rabbit, cold meat, 
a salad, and beer. The table was large enough to 
accommodate a good many, and one was never sure 
how many were coming. If the number exceeded 
the table space, small tables were unloaded of books 
and bric-a-brac and pressed into service. Every one 
waited on himself or on any one else that needed 
looking after. The cold fowl was carved by the master 
of the house. The chafing-dish was presided over by 
the mistress. The salad, the bread and butter, were 
passed from one to another, the beer bottles were 
usually in charge of some familiar member of the 
party who assumed the task. There were no sweets 
beyond a dish or two of bonbons. Every one en- 
joyed the affair, and while the party was not noisy 
or hilarious, there was good talk and plenty of it. 
For simple enjoyment it far exceeded other parties for 
Sunday night suppers where there were hot entrees 
and cold removes and an elaborate salad and a por- 
tentous sweet, with one or two or three wines poured 
by a solemn butler or a correct waitress. The latter 
kind of a party might as well have been a dinner, 
so stately and formal was it. The former could not 
have been anything but a Sunday night supper. 
But there are other dainties besides Welsh rabbit 
38 



n&t 



/£ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

which are possible for the Sunday night supper that 
is a small social function. (I hasten to add this for 
the benefit of those with whose digestions cooked 
cheese plays strange pranks.) The Sunday night sup- 
per as it is conducted for the family or the intimate 
guests may be practically the same when the number 
of guests is increased. The supplies must be more 
generous, that is all. 

Suppose, for instance, that the function is that de- 
lightful thing, " a hen party." Men undoubtedly add 
a charm to a gathering, — when one can have 
enough of them. But one solitary man alone in an 
assemblage of women is an awesome sight, and mat- 
ters are not much improved when there are two or 
three men to a dozen women. When you can 
approximate an equal proportion of each, it is a differ- 
ent thing. But if this is impossible, it is better to 
rule them out entirely and to have women alone. 

For this party Welsh rabbit might not be so pop- 
ular as it would be in a mixed assemblage. The 
women would rather have creamed or panned oysters 
for their hot dish, and re-enforce this with a dish of 
cold meat, a good salad, and a sweet. They would 
also like hot coffee or chocolate, probably, better than 
beer. 

<"rK 39 /k 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



Such a supper as this is not hard to achieve. 
The dining-table may be set as it would be for an 
evening party or a standing lunch, with piles of 
plates, napkins, silver, etc. The salad, the cold meat, 
the sandwiches or bread and butter, the cake, — if 
there is to be a cake, — may be on the table from 
the beginning of the meal. One intimate guest may 
be asked to pour the coffee or the chocolate. The 
hostess may preside over the chafing-dish. If there 
is a large number of guests, two chafing-dishes may 
be brought into service, but this is hardly necessary. 
A waitress is a convenience for removing plates, etc., 
but the women will wait on themselves, so far as 
the serving is concerned. They will take their plates 
where they please and "spill over" from the dining- 
room into the drawing-room or hall or library, or 
where they will. Small tables that can be moved 
from place to place will be a boon, but are not 
indispensable. 

The sweet for a woman's supper demands more at- 
tention than for a meal where men make up a good 
share of the company. Yet a cold sweet is so 
generally liked that there will be no trouble in find- 
ing one that can be prepared the day before. The 
salad dressing, too, may be mixed on Saturday, the 
40 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



meat cooked, and everything done except to cut the 
bread for the sandwiches and to prepare the hot 
drink and the chafing-dish dainty. 

Overelaboration at such an affair as this is a 
temptation to which it is easy to yield. Yet just as 
soon as a woman multiplies the items of her repast 
she ruins the effect of simplicity which is the charm 
of so informal a gathering. It is nothing that the 
guests will go away remarking that that was a fine 
supper and that they had eaten more than was good 
for them. The hostess has dealt a blow at the simple 
Sunday night supper and has done her part toward 
establishing a standard that will make such enter- 
taining more difficult for herself and others in the 
future. 

I wish I could speak strongly enough on this to 
make a lasting impression. Between the strenuous 
and the simple life we are all hard put to it how to 
choose, although there is something in the national 
character that makes us incline toward the harder way. 
It is something we ought to live down, and the 
housekeepers of the land should do their part toward 
simplifying this business of informal entertaining. Be 
very sure that it is better taste and higher enjoyment 
to entertain simply a half-dozen times than to have 
41 




m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



what is vulgarly termed a "blowout" once in two or 
three seasons. 

So the Sunday night supper menu should be 
studied over in order to achieve an attractive meal 
of few items but each of these admirable in its way. 
Have unusual salads or sweets or chafing-dish crea- 
tions, if you will. But don't have a number of 
these things at one time. If one dish is a trifle 
costly or elaborate, have the rest of the meal simple 
enough to establish a balance of consistency. For 
instance, the night that you have a plain green salad 
with the cold meat, prepare sandwiches, or a loaf 
of hot bread or scones. But when there have been 
fricasseed oysters for a first course, give only bread and 
butter with the Waldorf or chicken salad that follows, 
and make your sweet of the simplest. Offer wafers 
instead of the cake that might be suitable if the early 
part of the meal had been light. 

HOT CHOCOLATE * ¥ 

Nearly every one has a recipe for chocolate or 
cocoa, but the following direction makes such ex- 
ceptionally delicious chocolate that I give it here. 

Mix together six tablespoonfuls of Baker's chocolate, 
grated, four tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and a 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch. Wet them to a 
paste with a little milk and put them over the fire 
in a double boiler with four cups of milk and two 
cups of hot water. Cook together for ten minutes 
after they begin to simmer, add two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla, and, if you use wine, as much sherry. Beat 
hard with a Dover egg-beater for two or three min- 
utes. When the chocolate is poured, put a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream in each cup and pass sugar 
with it, in case it may be needed. 



ErTH = 







THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
HOT WEATHER 



ifeb 



&& 



w -*% 



CHAPTER IV 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
HOT WEATHER 

OTUDY to have the effect of your table for the 
*^ Sunday night supper as cool as possible. Leave 
the top of the table bare — if you have a table 
with a possible top — and put on a pretty centre- 
piece, round or square, and doilies at the individual 
places. There will be no hot dishes to mar the 
polish of the board. 

Have flowers, of course — not those with heavy per- 
fumes that seem to make the day hotter, but loose masses 
of feathery white mixed judiciously with color. Don't 
have the table cluttered with a lot of small dishes. 
A sense of space adds to the apparent coolness. 

There are some fortunate persons who own places 
where one can have supper on the lawn or on the 
veranda. The memory is clear to me of two such 
establishments. In one the Sunday night supper was 
served on the lawn whenever the weather permitted. 
A small table was carried out there, and spread 



m 



W ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

with a white cloth. On this were arranged the dif- 
ferent articles of food. There were salads or cold 
meats, and big plates of sandwiches, and piles of 
plates and napkins, knives and forks. There were 
also a huge pitcher of iced tea or coffee and a 
troop of glasses. 

The happy guests sat about on the lawn as they 
would. There were chairs for those who preferred 
them, and these might have small tables before them, 
on which to set the plate and glass. For the younger 
ones who favored less conventional postures there were 
rugs, on which they could dispose themselves, and 
cushions to soften the inequalities of the ground. 
The younger people waited on the elders, and every- 
thing was uncommonly jolly and free and easy. I 
don't mean that the occasion was one of un-Sun- 
day-like hilarity, but it was a delightful time of relaxa- 
tion and simple enjoyment. When the solids were 
finished, the self-constituted waiters filed back to the 
house, bearing the soiled plates, and brought out 
the sweets that were to conclude the meal. The 
services of a waitress were not required, and the 
repast was all the more agreeable for the total lack 
of ceremony. 

The other home where they have al fresco teas 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

is on the borders of a charming lake in a part of 
the country where mosquitoes are practically unknown. 
Here the supper-table on seven nights a week is 
spread on the broad veranda — and there are many 
other meals taken there as well. The table is pushed 
into one comer of the spacious porch when not in 
use, and the meals eaten in the fresh air have a 
zest that they would lack if served within four 
walls. 

In the sections of the country where mosquitoes 
abound this might not be feasible on an unenclosed 
porch. But more and more it is becoming customary 
to have at least a section of the veranda enclosed in 
wire netting as a protection against flies as well as 
against mosquitoes. Thus defended there is no reason 
why the Sunday night supper should not be eaten in 
the open air, or at least in as much of it as finds its 
way through the netting. It may not be easy to 
have here the meals that must be served Lot. They 
would chill, perhaps, on their passage from the 
kitchen, and the task of bringing hot plates and the 
like adds to the labors of the waitress. But when 
there is a cold meal, this objection is lessened, for the 
added bother of carrying the food to the veranda is 
usually gladly assumed by the younger members of 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

the household for the sake of the novelty and enjoy- 
ment of the supper out-of-doors. 

It is not enough to have the viands served at the 
Sunday night supper merely cold. The appetite 
usually needs coaxing in hot weather, and this is not 
done when the remains of the midday dinner are 
served — and not even cold, but lukewarm ! Put the 
Sunday dinner remains away for a future occasion, and 
serve something different for supper. Have salad, of 
course. That is a staple in hot weather, and there is 
enough variety possible to do away with any danger 
of sameness. Have cold meat, if you wish it, but let 
it be sliced thin, prettily garnished, and accompanied 
with a relish which makes it appetizing. If you can 
put aspic with it, so much the better, or serve it in 
aspic if you can. Thus tricked out it is quite a 
different thing from plain cold meat as we know it 
on the ordinary every-day table. 

Make rather a feature of bread and butter or of 
sandwiches for the Sunday evening supper. They 
need not be expensive or difficult. Cut the bread 
thin — either white bread or brown, or both — having 
first buttered it on the loaf. If you wish to have a 
sandwich-filling, spread this on before cutting the 
bread. There are so many of these simple fillings! 

~<-X 50 & 



w — m 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



Chopped tomatoes — the solid part — or chopped cu- 
cumber stirred into mayonnaise. (These must not be 
made until just before serving, or they will become 
soggy.) Minced lobster or shrimp or sardines stirred 
into mayonnaise. Cream-cheese or pot-cheese softened 
to a paste with cream and spread on the bread. 
The mixture may be used plain — salted to taste, 
of course — or have minced nuts stirred into it, or 
chives or celery or parsley or cress. Or, after the 
cheese has been spread on the bread, a lettuce-leaf 
dipped in French dressing may be laid between the 
two thicknesses of bread and cheese. Or jam may 
be worked into the cheese if a sweet sandwich is 
wished. Jelly sandwiches are good, too; or if one 
objects to sweets, mingle minced pickles with the 
cheese. Egg sandwiches are good where the hard- 
boiled egg is put through a vegetable-press, given 
cohesiveness by the addition of a little cream or 
melted butter, seasoned to taste, and then spread on 
the bread. Or if any or all of these seem too 
troublesome, plain bread (cut thin) and butter is sure 
to be satisfactory to nearly every one. 

Of sweets there is little need of speaking. In 
summer, when fruits are plentiful, the dessert suggests 
itself. Fresh berries, fresh peaches (sliced or whole), 

^ " A 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



fresh pears (sliced) with cream, melons, grapes — all 
these are delicious. And if much fruit has made 
one crave for novelties in its preparation, it is easy 
to compass pleasing dishes with fruit for the foun- 
dation and a superstructure or accompaniment of 
whipped cream or meringue or custard or jelly. 
Cake, too, will be acceptable with the fruit, 
but it need not be heavy and rich, as one might 
perhaps wish it in winter. Something simpler and 
lighter will answer for the Sunday night supper in 
summer. 

For drink, cold tea or coffee or chocolate, with 
plenty of ice, will always please. Lemonade, too, is 
of unfailing popularity among young people. If more 
variety is craved, there are many delicious fruit 
punches and similar drinks that may be made. Most 
of them have a good lemonade for a foundation, and 
there are tempting compounds in which ginger ale 
holds a place. These will be found to be cooling, as 
no drink can be that contains alcohol in any form. 







SPICED BEEF * * 

Place over the fire in enough cold water to cover 
it, two pounds of lean beef from the round, cut into 
rather small pieces, as for stewing, and a cracked 
52 

m 



1 U 

A 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

knuckle of veal. Put with them a bunch of soup 
vegetables and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Bring 
slowly to a boil, and simmer gently until the meat is 
tender enough to pierce with a fork. This will re- 
quire from two and one-half to three hours' cooking. 
Keep the pot closely covered. 

Let the meat get cold in the liquor, remove any 
fat that rises to the top, then take out the meat, and 
shred it with a fork. Strain the liquor, and return it 
to the fire with one-half teaspoonful each of ground all- 
spice, cloves, and mace, one saltspoonful each of mus- 
tard, paprika, arid celery-salt, and one-half teaspoonful 
of common salt. Bring to a boil, put in the meat 
again, and let.it become well heated. Stir well, take 
it out, and turn into a plain oval or brick-shaped 
mold, first wetting this with cold water. Set it on 
the ice. When cold the spiced beef will be blended 
with the meat jelly and will turn out perfectly. It 
may be cut in slices either before or after it goes to 
the table. 

If a change is desired, the meat may be set to 
form in small individual molds. These may be served 
on lettuce-leaves and make a pretty dish. A tomato 
sauce or a mayonnaise dressing goes well with this 
dish. 

&w 53 A 

A ft < & 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

COLD MEAT IN ASPIC * ¥ 

Make a good aspic jelly by cooking together a 
knuckle of veal and one pound of beef, or a chicken 
carcass or any other cold meat of the kind you 
have, in cold water for two or three hours. Put 
soup vegetables with them as you would for any 
soup, and cook slowly. There should be three 
quarts of water to three pounds of meat, and it 
should reduce to one quart of liquid. Let it become 
cold on the bones, pour it off, strain it, return it to 
the fire, and when it comes to a boil throw in the 
white and the crushed shell of an egg. Boil up 
quickly, skim off the scum that rises, and then strain 
again. If the liquor lacks seasoning, add celery-salt, 
white pepper and lemon-juice or vinegar until it is 
palatable. 

With this on hand you have a foundation for a 
number of delicious dishes. Cold beef may be sliced 
thin, sprinkled with salt and pepper, and arranged 
in layers alternately with the jelly the liquor will 
form as soon as it is cold. Cold chicken is delicious 
prepared in this way. So is cold lamb or veal. The 
dish may be adorned and varied by putting with the 
meat slices of beet or other pickles, hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices or quarters, thin slivers of lemon, minced 

P* & — 4 i-Th 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

celery and the like. Or the meat may be sliced 
and the jelly cut into dice and arranged about the 
meat on a flat dish before it goes to table. Hard- 
boiled eggs are very good served in aspic, and 
will answer as a salad. If cold lamb is thus served 
it is well to pass mint sauce with it. 

When the weather is hot or humid it is advis- 
able to add one tablespoonful of soaked gelatine 
to the liquor just before it is cleared with the white 
and shell of the egg. This ensures its becoming firm 
enough to turn out well. The mold in which it 
and the meat are put to form should be wet with 
cold water before they go in. 

TOMATOES IN ASPIC * * 

I have spoken of hard-boiled eggs served in aspic 
as a salad. Another dish of the same sort may be 
achieved when tomatoes are ripe. Select firm toma- 
toes of rather small and uniform size. Throw them 
in boiling water long enough to loosen the skins, peel 
them, and put them on the ice. Do this several 
hours before they are to be used, that they may 
become thoroughly chilled. Have the aspic jelly cold 
and at the stage where it is just beginning to form. 
Cut your tomatoes into thick slices, moisten a small 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



mold with water, put in a little of the jelly, lay in a 
slice of the tomato, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, 
put in more jelly, then another slice of the tomato, 
and so on. There should be only enough in each 
mold for an individual portion. A deep muffin-tin 
is excellent for a mold. When filled, set it on the 
ice. When ready to serve, turn out on a lettuce- 
leaf, and serve with a French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Sliced beets may be served in the same way. 

GREEN PEASE IN ASPIC * * 

Make the jelly as described above; season cooked 
green pease to taste with salt and pepper, stir them 
into the jelly, and turn into individual molds wet with 
cold water. Serve on lettuce-leaves. 

A very delicious macedoine salad may be made by 
cutting up cold beets, mincing celery and string-beans, 
and putting all in layers in the aspic, each vegetable 
by itself. This is an excellent way in which to use 
vegetable left-overs. 

A WORD ABOUT TOMATO SALADS * * 

Tomatoes are a great stand-by for salad when 
they are in season. They may have the inside 
scooped out and be made delicious with almost any 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

filling. They may be stuffed with green pease, with 
string-beans, with celery, with cucumbers, with cold 
meat of any kind, provided it is minced or cut into 
dice and well seasoned first. Cold carrots sliced are 
good in such filling. So are raw oysters, or cooked 
shrimps, or sardines, or cold fish of nearly every kind. 
Almost anything will go well with tomatoes. If you 
wish to vary the salad still more, make baskets out 
of the tomatoes, leaving a piece of the top as a 
handle. It is a little more trouble to do this than 
to cut the top of the tomato off in a single slice, 
but it makes a prettier dish of the salad. It may 
be served with a French dressing, or with a may- 
onnaise, or with any one of the good boiled dressings 
which make such excellent substitutes for mayonnaise. 






1 M|aH|JMHaHBHailVMMM>MMHHaMaaHaaHnHiaHiaBHHHMiaHMNH^^ I 



UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND 
SWEETS 



"^ "ft 



w 






m 







CHAPTER V 

UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND SWEETS 

THE housekeeper's invention is seriously taxed 
every Saturday with the planning for two days' 
meals. It is not strange that her powers fail her 
when she seeks a novelty for the third meal on 
Sunday. She will be — or should be — devoutly 
grateful if she can find any unfamiliar and accept- 
able suggestions among the following recipes. That 
certain of them can be prepared in the chafing-dish 
may give them added merit in her eyes. 

SAVORIES 

CLAMS SCALLOPED IN SHELLS ¥ ¥ 

Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour until they bubble. Pour upon them a cupful 
of liquid, half milk and half clam juice. Add a tiny 
pinch of soda to the milk. Stir until you have a 
thick, smooth sauce, and add then a pint of clams, 
chopped. Put in a beaten egg, adding it drop by 
drop, and, when all is in, season to taste with salt 
61 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



and cayenne. Have large clam shells washed clean 
and buttered on the inside, and put the clam mixture 
into these. All this may be done on Saturday. On 
Sunday set the shells in a pan in the oven, turn an- 
other pan over them and let them cook ten minutes, 
uncover and brown lightly. Pass sliced lemon with 
them. 

CREAMED PANNED OYSTERS * ¥ 

Cut rounds of buttered toast to fit the bottom of 
your ramequins or nappies, or if you have not these 
in the right shape, of tin patty-pans. On the toast 
lay oysters, allowing three or four to each pan. Put 
a bit of butter and a dust of pepper and salt on 
the top of each one. Set in a quick oven for ten 
minutes or until the edges of the oysters crimp. 
Have ready hot cream, having allowed a couple of 
teaspoonfuls to each pan of the oysters, and put this 
with them just before you send to the table. 

It will take but a few moments to prepare this 
dish, but if the housekeeper desires she can make the 
toast and arrange the oysters in the pans on Saturday 
or on Sunday morning, putting the pans on the ice 
or in a cold place until time to set them in the 
oven. 



^ " A 



m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



DEVILLED PANNED CLAMS * ¥ 

Prepare as for panned oysters, using clams in 
place of these. When they are baked pour over them 
a " devilled " mixture, made by stirring together a salt- 
spoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and ten 
drops of Tabasco. Half a teaspoonful of this, poured 
into the liquor and melted butter that should sur- 
round the clams in each pan, will be enough to 
give the hot touch that makes the name appro- 
priate. 

Devilled panned oysters may oe prepared in the 
same fashion. 

SAVORY LOBSTER * 

Cut a pint of lobster meat into small pieces. Do 
not chop it Make it hot with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of dry mus- 
tard, and three or four dashes of cayenne pepper or 
paprica. Let all get smoking hot together and add 
the juice of a lemon and a wineglassful of sherry. 
The latter may be omitted by those who object to 
the use of wine. This dish may be prepared in a 
chafing-dish or in a saucepan. 



*qp 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

PANNED KIDNEYS * * 

Fry thin slices of bacon in a frying-pan, or in a 
blazer, until crisp, take them out and put into the 
pan lambs' kidneys, which have been split and 
rolled in flour. Cook for five minutes, add a couple 
of tablespoonfuls of hot water, stew five minutes 
longer, season with pepper, a tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato or mush- 
room ketchup. 

PILLAU OF RICE AND PEPPERS * * 

Cut green peppers in half, lengthwise, removing 
the seeds. Throw the peppers into boiling water and 
leave them there for five minutes. Take them out 
and drain. Have ready to fill them boiled rice which 
has had stirred into each cupful of it a tablespoonful 
of melted butter and two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese with salt to taste. Fill each pepper shell with 
this, mounding it up on top. Place the peppers thus 
filled in a pan. This can be done on Saturday. 
Late Sunday afternoon set the pan, covered, in a hot 
oven for ten minutes, uncover and brown lightly. 
This makes a delicious accompaniment to cold meat. 



rV " <& 



w « 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

MEAT AND GREEN PEPPER 
SCALLOP * * 

Mince any cold meat you have and season it well. 
Ham is very nice for this dish, and so is poultry of 
any sort, but other cold meats will do. Cold veal 
to which has been added a small amount of ham 
is excellent. Butter a pudding-dish and put a layer 
of the meat into the bottom. Over this place a 
layer of green peppers which have had the seeds 
removed and have been cut into small pieces. Sprinkle 
fine crumbs thickly over this, pour in enough well- 
seasoned stock to moisten it thoroughly, and then add 
another series of the layers of meat, peppers, and 
crumbs. Continue with this until the dish is filled, 
making crumbs of the top stratum. Strew bits of 
butter over all, cover, and bake in a good oven 
for ten minutes; then uncover, and bake ten minutes 
longer, or until well browned. All of the preparation 
of this dish except the baking can be done on Sat- 
urday, 

TOMATO AND EGG SCALLOP * * 

Chop up the contents of a can of tomatoes or an 
equal quantity of fresh tomatoes, stewed. Make sure 
that there are no hard lumps left in, put with the to- 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

mato a small onion, minced, and let it cook slowly for 
half an hour. Season with salt and pepper. Boil 
four or five eggs hard, throw them in cold water to 
loosen the shells, peel them and cut each egg into 
eighths. Butter a bake dish, fill it about a quarter 
full of the tomato, and on this lay one-third of the 
eggs. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and put in 
more tomato and egg. Have tomato for the finishing 
layer, strew with crumbs and bits of butter. Bake, 
covered, fifteen minutes, — just long enough to make 
the contents of the dish thoroughly hot, uncover and 
brown. This dish, also, except the final baking, can 
be prepared and cooked the day before it is to be 
eaten. 

SAVORY RICE AND TOMATO * * 

Fry until crisp a quarter-pound of chopped salt 
pork. Put into the pan with it a medium-sized 
onion, minced fine, and brown. Add this to three 
cupfuls of boiled rice ; mix in two green peppers, 
seeded and chopped, and a cupful of tomato sauce. 
Season all to taste with salt and pepper, turn into a 
buttered bake-dish, sprinkle with fine crumbs and 
small pieces of butter, and brown. Everything but 
the baking may be done on Saturday. 
66 



&t 




^s 



3* 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

OYSTER OMELET * * 

Beat six eggs light, yolks and whites separately, 
adding thret tablespoonfuls of milk to the yolks. Stir 
the yolks and whites lightly together, turn into a hot 
frying-pan, and cook until set. Have ready a rich 
white sauce to which a beaten egg has been added 
and in which a dozen oysters have been cooked until 
the edges curl. Lay the omelet on a hot platter, 
pour the oysters over it, and fold upon itself. Serve 
immediately. Some persons think this is improved by 
sprinkling with grated cheese just before sending to 
the table. 

SWEETS 

STUFFED PINEAPPLE ¥ ¥ 

Select a large, fine pineapple and cut off the top 
smoothly. Scoop out the inside, taking care not to 
break the sides of the pineapple, cut the pulp into 
dice and put with it half as much orange, also cut 
small, as much banana as you have orange, and a 
dozen Maraschino cherries, each halved. A few 
teaspoonfuls of the Maraschino liquor from the cher- 
ries may be added to the mixture. Return all to 
the pineapple shell, set this in a very cold place, and 
67 



<& 



m — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

leave it there for one hour before serving. If pos- 
sible, it is well to put the pineapple thus filled into 
a pail and pack this in ice and salt for an hour. 
The contents are thus chilled thoroughly. Place the 
top, with its tuft of leaves upon it, on the stuffed 
pineapple when it is sent to the table. 

ITALIAN CHESTNUT PUDDING ¥ ¥ 

Select large Spanish or Italian chestnuts for this, 
put them over the fire in boiling water, and cook for 
ten minutes. Remove them from the stove, and the 
inner skins will come off easily with the outer shells. 
Put the peeled chestnuts into boiling water again and 
boil until tender. By this method they are kept white. 
When tender put them through a vegetable press or 
potato ricer, mix a little white sugar with them 
and, if you use wine, moisten them with a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Mound them in a dish and 
heap whipped cream upon them. 

FRUIT SYLLABUB ¥ ¥ 

Line a glass dish with thin slices of rather dry 
sponge cake. Over this pour enough fruit juice to 
soften the cake. If it is made in summer you 
may use the juice of ripe berries or peaches, crushing 

™ — 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

them to extract the juice ; if in winter, the juice 
of oranges may be used, or syrup from preserved 
fruit. Rub six lumps of sugar on the rind of two 
large oranges until the sugar is yellow with the oil 
from the orange skin. Then crush the sugar and 
add it to a pint of rich cream. Squeeze the juice 
of the oranges on two tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar, and add this, too, to the cream. Whip it all 
stiff, and heap on the cake. The top of the cream 
may be ornamented with preserved or fresh berries. 

ORANGE JELLY * ¥ 

Soak half a box of gelatine for half an hour in 
enough cold water to cover it, add to it a cupful of 
granulated sugar, pour upon it three cups of boiling 
water, and stir until entirely dissolved. While the 
gelatine is soaking, grate the peel of two oranges and 
squeeze the juice of three upon the grated peel. 
Let them stand together for half an hour, then strain 
into the jelly. Turn into a large mold, or into small 
molds, and put into a cold place to form. It is a 
prettier dish if halved orange skins are used for 
molds. The jelly is then served in the skins and 
whipped cream may be heaped upon each half just 
before sending to the table. 

5^ 69 



*? 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

CRANBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM * * 

Soak a quarter-box of gelatine in a half-cup of 
cold water. Heat two cups of milk in a double 
boiler, beat the yolks of two eggs with a pinch of 
salt and half a cup of sugar, pour the hot milk upon 
them and return to the double boiler. Stir until the 
custard begins to thicken and then add gelatine. 
When this is dissolved take the custard from the fire 
and strain it. Let it become cold and then put with 
it a cupful of sweetened cranberry juice, made by 
cooking the cranberries as you would for jelly, squeez- 
ing the juice and adding sugar, and half a pint of 
cream beaten stiff with the whites of two eggs. 
Turn all into a mold, set on the ice and leave 
until cold. Serve with sweet cream. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA * * 

Soak one cupful of pearl tapioca in two cupfuls of 
cold water until the water is all absorbed. Put over 
the fire together with the juice from a pint of canned 
or preserved raspberries and cook for half an hour. 
Add the berries to the tapioca and syrup, turn the 
mixture into a mold, and put on ice, or in a cold 
place, to form. Serve with whipped cream. 



70 



<R-1 



I3 & vgff 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CAKE CUSTARD ¥ ¥ 

Make a sweet, boiled custard, — about three cup- 
fuls. While this is hot stir into it half a dozen stale 
sponge cakes broken up very small, and two table- 
spoonfuls of peach jelly or marmalade. Beat hard, 
and when cool, set on the ice to get very cold. 
When ready to serve, pour into glasses, heap on top 
of each a tablespoonful of whipped cream, and in 
the centre of the cream put a very little peach 
jelly. 



fe ^- 4 & 



jp-l-s ■» — v^!T3_ 



i? ^ 



COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER 



^ m 



w ^ 



CHAPTER VI 

COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER 



T 



HAT is an old story of the English restaurant 
proprietor who inquired carefully as to the 
ritualistic tendencies of the clergymen for whom he 
was to provide a dinner. He explained his interest 
thus: "If they are 'igh Church, they wants more 
wine, if Broad Church, more wittles." 

Some such distinction as this the hostess must bear 
in mind when planning the cold dishes for her Sun- 
day night supper. The tastes of her family will 
probably be less exacting than those of the formal 
guest, — or, at least, she prefers to think so. It 
saves her trouble. Thus much may be said for her, 
to remove from her the stigma of an unwillingness to 
take as much pains for her own as for strangers, that 
she knows what the members of her household like 
and therefore does not have to expend so much cel- 
lular tissue in devising novelties for them as she 
would for guests. 

& " — 4k 



g? — ^§ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

Moreover, the housekeeper joyously refuses to as- 
sume responsibility for the digestions of the visitors. 
They are the keepers of their own gastronomic con- 
sciences. Her part is to put temptation in their way, 
while to them it falls to resist the lure, or to yield to 
it graciously. The consequences of either course are 
in their own charge. 

With the home people it is another matter. 
When the housekeeper places before them food that 
is likely to disagree with them, she knows that upon 
her will devolve the care of the sick and suffering. 
This knowledge naturally hampers her inclination to 
plan for her Sunday night supper as though there 
were no hereafter. 

So, when she has only her family to feed, the 
housekeeper gives them beef loaf, — or even veal 
loaf, if she be of a daring nature, — cold meat in 
aspic, jellied chicken, jellied tongue, stuffed ham, 
simple salads, innocuous sweets. It is another matter 
when she has guests to consider. For them she pre- 
pares chaudfroids of more or less elaborateness, 
spends her ingenuity on salads, and lets her fancy go 
on sweets. The results are pleasing if possibly per- 
nicious. Yet no one with a fair digestion and a 
particle of "sporting blood" need fear such dishes as 
76 




m 



Ofif 



V 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 




those for which the recipes follow. And the timorous 
or dyspeptic would better eat at home and take no 
chances at an alien supper board. 

The cold dishes for the Sunday night supper 
may be inexpensive or costly as suits the disposition 
or the purse of the housekeeper. If she has a nice 
taste in truffles or pate de foie gras and out-of-season 
game she may have the supposedly simple meal the 
highest priced of the week. On the other hand, 
with skill in flavoring and seasoning and aptitude for 
dainty cookery she can procure a result that would 
be as satisfactory as the other to all but the trained 
gourmet, at a moderate outlay. 

One word more. Cold dishes must be cold! 
This does not mean lukewarm or partially cold, but 
thoroughly chilled. There is nothing more de- 
appetizing than to have dishes meant to be cold 
merely chilly, except to have dishes that should be 
hot only tepid. Serve your cold dishes from cold 
platters or bowls on to cold plates. Garnish the food 
attractively, and remember that its appearance has 
almost as much importance as its taste in rendering it 
tempting to the palate. 

A pleasing touch is given to a supper that may be 
otherwise plain by prefacing the meal with an appetizer 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

of some sort. One of the most attractive of these is 
a clam cocktail. Make this by mixing together a 
tablespoonful each of vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, 
and grated horseradish, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice, half a teaspoonful each of salt and Tabasco 
sauce, and two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. Make 
very cold and put into this sauce two dozen small 
clams. Serve in glasses. Or you may arrange the 
clams on ice and put the sauce in a cup made of a 
halved green pepper, and set this in the centre of the 
plate on which the clams are served. 

CLAM CANAPES » * 

Spread brown bread with a mayonnaise dressing to 
which has been added a little Worcestershire sauce, 
and put on the bread a mixture of a dozen clams, cut 
in small pieces and mixed with a half-teaspoonfu) of 
capers, two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

CAVIAR CANAPES * * 

Cut crescents or rectangles of white or brown 
bread, and butter them lightly. Spread thinly with 
Russian caviar, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



on the caviar, garnish the dish with watercress or 
sliced tomatoes. 

VEAL LOAF * * 

Boil one pound of lean veal in enough water to 
cover it. When done set it to one side to cool while 
you boil down the liquor in which it was cooked to 
about half a cupful. Add to this a saltspoonful of 
celery salt, the grated peel of a lemon and half the 
juice, common salt and white pepper to taste. Chop 
the veal fine with a tablespoonful of lean ham. Put 
the gravy with the meat and turn all into a round 
mould. Lay a plate on the surface of the meat, 
cover with a heavy weight, and leave until the next 
day. By that time it will be firm and may be turned 
out on a flat dish and cut into slices. Garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon or with sliced tomatoes. 



LIVER LOAF * * 

Boil a lamb's liver until tender in water to which 
a sliced onion and a stalk of celery have been 
added. When cold, wipe the liver dry and put it 
through a meat chopper. It should be almost a 
powder when ready to season. Rub it to a paste 
with half a teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoonful 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

of Worcestershire sauce, one of mushroom catsup and 
three of melted butter. Butter a rather small mould 
with straight sides and press the liver mixture down 
into it. This loaf is made more elegant by the addi- 
tion of a few truffles arranged here and there in the 
pate. Leave it on the ice until just before serving. 
Turn out on a flat plate, garnish attractively, and cut 
in thin slices in serving. This is a tolerable imitation 
of pate de foie gras. 

QUICK ASPIC JELLY ¥ * 

Purchase a quart can of good tinned consomme. 
There are two or three excellent makes on the 
market. If not sufficiently seasoned, put it over the 
fire with a sliced onion, a stalk of celery, and a bay 
leaf, and simmer for half an hour. Season it with 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar or, if you do not 
like the tarragon flavor, with as much lemon juice. 
Soak half a box of gelatine in enough warm water 
to cover it, for half an hour, heat the consomme to 
boiling, add the gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain, 
and set aside to cool. It may be cut into dice 
as a garnish, or meat or vegetables may be jellied 
in it. 

If there is time to make the consomme by boiling 

2v 80 A 



j gE> — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

beef, it is well to add to this a well-cracked knuckle 
of veal. When the stock has been made and 
cleared, proceed as with the quick aspic. 

DUCK OR CHICKEN IN JELLY * * 

Cut cold roast duck or chicken into neat pieces. 
Wet the bottom of a mould with cold water, pour 
in a little of the aspic, which should already have 
begun to form, arrange sliced hard boiled eggs and 
dice of beet root or capers about the mould. Pour 
in a little of the jelly, lay in the meat, put in more 
jelly, and so on until the mould is full. The final 
layer should be of jelly. Set the mould on the ice 
for several hours before the contents are to be used. 
Garnish attractively when turned out. An excellent 
idea is to arrange the jelly in individual moulds and 
serve one to each guest, on a lettuce leaf. 

CHICKEN GALANTINE * * 

Select a good sized fowl, put it over the fire in 
cold water with a bunch of soup herbs. Bring gradu- 
ally to a boil and cook slowly until the meat is 
tender. Take it from the fire and let it get cold in 
the liquor. Cut the meat from the bones, rejecting 
skin and gristle, and slice the meat neatly. Boil the 
81 



& M 



g ? — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



liquor down to one quart, strain it and return it to 
the fire with the white and cracked shell of an egg. 
Boil up once, remove the scum, add a heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine which has been soaked in a little 
warm water, remove from the fire and strain. Season 
with salt to taste, a saltspoonful of celery salt and the 
same of paprica, a teaspoonful each of lemon juice 
and of minced parsley. Wet a mould with plain 
sides, pour in a little of the jelly, arrange a layer of 
the meat and then a little more jelly. Put next a 
layer of thin slices of cold boiled ham or tongue, 
more jelly and then the chicken again. In the 
crevices between the meat place blanched almonds 
cut in strips, a few pistache nuts and truffles, if you 
wish them, stoned olives sliced, and a few capers. 
Make this the day before it is to be eaten and keep 
on the ice until it is time to turn it out. 

TONGUE MOUSSE * * 

Chop very fine two cupfuls of cold boiled tongue. 
Reject any portions that seem tough. Season with 
a little French mustard and paprica. Mix with a gill 
of liquid aspic jelly made according to either of the 
directions given, turn into a buttered mould, and place 
on the ice for several hours before it is to be used. 
82 










SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

CHICKEN MOUSSE * * 

This may be made like the tongue mousse, except 
that the seasoning should differ. Use celery salt 
and a little onion juice in place of the mustard. It 
will be enriched and improved if a tablespoonful of 
pate de foie gras is worked in with the chicken. 
Truffles may also be used if desired. At the last add 
a cup of whipped cream to which has been put a 
teaspoonful of gelatine that has been dissolved in 
warm water and then allowed to cool, and a table- 
spoonful of sherry Beat all well together, turn into a 
mould wet with cold water, and leave for several 
hours before serving. 

LOBSTER SALAD IN THE SHELL * ¥ 

Prepare a lobster salad by cutting the fresh lobster 
into neat dice. To two cupfuls of this add a tea- 
spoonful of Russian caviare. Mingle all with a good 
mayonnaise dressing to which has been added a half- 
pint of whipped cream just before it is put with the 
salad. 

To serve this in an unusual and attractive manner, 
scrape clean the back shells of the lobster and fill 
these with the salad. Give one to each person, gar- 
nishing with cress and olives. This is a variety from 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

the standard method of serving lobster salad and will 
be welcome as a novelty. 

TOMATOES WITH WHIPPED CREAM * ¥ 

This is another novelty and deserves to be better 
known. Select large, firm tomatoes, throw them in 
hot water for a few moments to loosen the skins, 
remove these and put the tomatoes at once on the 
ice. Let them become thoroughly chilled. When 
ready to serve, cut each tomato in half crosswise, 
sprinkle with salt and paprica and heap on each half 
a tablespoonful of whipped cream. Eat as a salad 
or an entree or as an accompaniment to cold meat. 

FROZEN PEACHES WITH ICE-CREAM ¥ ¥ 

Large firm peaches should be chosen for this. 
Peel carefully and cut each in half. Pack in an 
ice cave or freezer for two or three hours, until well 
frappe. Have ready rounds of sponge or angel cake. 
Lay one of the peach-halves on each of these, sur- 
round the cake with ice-cream or whipped cream, 
and put a large spoonful of ice-cream in the place 
left vacant by the peach stone. 



84 

A ft m \ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

FIG AND NUT JELLY » * 

Wash a cupful of pulled figs in cold water. Put 
them over the fire in two cups of cold water 
and stew until tender. Take them from the liquor, 
put to it a half-cupful of sugar and boil until the 
syrup thickens. Chop the figs into small pieces and 
add to them a couple of dozen almonds, blanched 
and chopped. Have ready half a box of gelatine 
which has been soaked for half an hour in a cupful 
of warm water. Dissolve it in a cupful of boiling 
water, add to it the fig liquor — there should be at 
least three gills of this, — and a gill of sherry. Strain 
through a fine wire sieve and turn into the glass or 
silver dish from which you mean to serve it. When 
it is partially formed, — enough to keep the figs and 
nuts from sinking to the bottom, — stir-these in. Serve 
ice cold with whipped cream. 

STEWED FIGS WITH CREAM * * 

Prepare the figs as in the preceding recipe by 
washing and stewing. Cook down the syrup until 
thick. Pour it over the figs and set the dish away 
in the ice. Just before serving heap whipped cream on 
the figs. 

This is a simple and delicious dessert 

tK 85 A 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

MARSHMALLOWS AND MARASCHINO * * 

Cut marshmallows in half and arrange them in a 
glass or silver bowl with half as many Maraschino 
cherries as there are marshmallows. Shell and blanch 
a half-cupful of English walnuts and chop them fine. 
Whip light half a pint of cream, beating into it three 
or four tablespoonfuls of Maraschino liquor from the 
cherries. If a really strong flavor of the Maraschino 
is desired it is better to use the pure liquor. In that 
case half as much of this as of the syrup will be 
sufficient. Into the cream thus whipped and flavored 
stir the chopped nuts and heap on top of the marsh- 
mallows and cherries. Garnish the whipped cream 
with more of the cherries. Do not make this dish 
too long before it is to be used or the marshmallows 
will become inconveniently sticky. 



86 s& 



w= 






% 



m 



w ^ 



CHAPTER VII 
CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS 

THE chafing-dish began as a fashion and developed 
into a fad. Thence it has quietly grown to be 
a friend. No one goes wild now over the possi- 
bilities of the chafing-dish, and every one, man, woman, 
and child, is not taking lessons in its use. But there 
are few homes where you do not find it, and 
nowhere is it more serviceable and welcome than at 
the Sunday night supper. 



"All may have the flower now, for all have got 
the seed.'* There are few so ignorant that they 
cannot compound a Welsh rabbit or accomplish 
lobster Newburg or achieve a Scotch woodcock. 
The merits of these may waver, but the dish can at 
least be eaten, — and that is much. Most of us 
remember some of the earlier chafing-dish combina- 
tions which no society breeding, no Christian unselfish- 
ness, could have aided us to swallow. 

Now, however, when the majority of amateur 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

cooks have progressed beyond the scrambled-egg 
stage, those who have an ambitious bent are on the 
lookout for new exploits in the chafing-dish line. 
They turn scornfully from the old standbys and seek 
fresh and astonishing creations. It is for the benefit of 
these searchers after novelty that the following recipes 
have been brought together. Some of them may be 
merely old friends with new faces, or new names, — 
which amounts to pretty nearly the same thing. But 
until some one carries out the desire of the harassed 
young housekeeper who wished that there would be 
invented a new animal, we must be content with re- 
combinations and with the freshness that comes with 
new seasonings, new mixtures, and new titles. 

The daring chafing-dish cook is the one who 
achieves success. There are few things that cannot 
be done in a chafing-dish, if one knows how. The 
greatest aid one can have to happy results is found 
in a bain-marie, either the regulation article that goes 
by that name or one that is improvised by the aid of 
a vessel of water set over the alcohol lamp or on a 
gas plate, so that in it or over it may be kept warm 
the first items of what might be called the two-part 
dishes. A length of gas-tubing, a cheap gas plate or 
gas stove on a side table will enable one to improvise, 

90 /fa 




mi 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

with the aid of a big dripping-pan and two or three 
saucepans, as satisfactory a bain-marie as the high- 
priced French utensil of that name. 

Oysters, one of the great reliances of the chafing- 
dish cook in winter, are less popular in summer. 
Yet even at that season one may yield to a fond- 
ness for oysters and serve them on a chilly Sunday 
night, with bacon, in the dish variously known, — 
according to the taste or habit of mind of the cook, 
— as "little pigs in blankets," "angels on horseback," 
or "devils on horseback." With any name the 
method of preparation is virtually the same and the 
dish is almost always welcome. In summer clams are 
in their glory and crabs and lobsters are in season. It 
is the time when mushrooms grow out-of-doors, eggs 
are at their lowest ebb of price, and fruits and vege- 
tables may be experimented with at almost no 
expense. 

Moreover, the chafing-dish is especially valuable in 
summer becauses it enables one to tempt the appetite 
of her household or guests without the necessity of a 
kitchen fire. Even in our tropic climate there are 
times in midsummer when a hot savoury is welcome 
on the Sunday night supper-table. This the chafing- 
dish will provide and no other fire will be needed 
91 



IP ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

beyond the alcohol blaze. Salads, sandwiches, iced 
drinks, fruit, or chilled sweets will supply the rest of 
the meal. 

EGGS A LA NEWBURG * * 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer and, 
when it is hot, stir into it a teaspoonful of cornstarch. 
As soon as these are blended pour in a cup of rich 
milk, — cream is better, if you can get it. When 
the sauce thickens turn in six hard-boiled eggs, cut 
into neat pieces, and let these cook until hot through. 
Stir in drop by drop two well beaten eggs, a half- 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of sherry. Serve on toast or crackers. 

SPANISH EGGS ¥ * 









Put together in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of 
butter, a gill of good gravy or stock, an onion, sliced 
and minced, or a teaspoonful of onion juice, a half- 
cup of thick stewed tomato, a green pepper, from 
which the seeds have been removed, minced fine, 
and a dozen olives, also minced. Let all simmer 
together, stirring constantly, for ten minutes. Should 
you choose to cook this part of the dish in the 
double boiler the cookery will not require such close 

^n 92 Jf 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



watching. If this is done, the vegetables must cook 
for fifteen minutes. When the time is up, stir into 
the mixture of vegetables six eggs and cook until these 
are thick. If the other ingredients have cooked so 
rapidly that they have become rather dry put in a 
tablespoonful more of butter, or a little more stock. 
For those who like the taste of salad oil this may 
be substituted for the butter, but as there are cer- 
tain persons who object to the flavor it is not wise 
to try the experiment without being sure of the 
company. At the last add a teaspoonful of salt and 
serve. 

EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS ¥ ¥ 

Select good mushrooms of tolerable uniformity of 
size. Peel them and lay them in a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the double boiler of the 
chafing-dish. Cover closely and cook for about ten 
minutes, or until the mushrooms are tender. Sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper and take them out with 
a fork, lay them on a hot dish, and into the butter 
and mushroom liquor left in the pan turn six well 
beaten eggs and a gill of cream. Set the pan 
directly over the flame and cook, stirring all the time, 
until the eggs have thickened. Add a half teaspoon- 



p* & -m \ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

fiil of salt and a dash of paprika and pour the eggs 
over and around the mushrooms on a flat dish. Or 
you may put the mushrooms back into the chafing- 
dish with the eggs and serve from the blazer. 

HARD BOILED EGGS IN 
CREAM SAUCE * * 

Boil eggs hard in the blazer of the chafing-dish. 
The water should be boiling when they go in and 
they must cook for ten minutes. Take them out, 
wrap them in a napkin, and put into the chafing-dish 
a tablespoonful each of butter and of flour. Cook 
together until they bubble, turn in a half-pint of 
cream and stir to a thick smooth sauce. Season this 
with ten drops of onion juice, a generous dash of 
paprika, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. Shell the boiled eggs 
as quickly as possible and pop them into this sauce. 
They should still be hot and a moment in the sauce 
will be all that is needed before you serve them on 
toast. If you wish, instead of putting them into the 
sauce you may have a bit cut off of the bottom of 
each egg so that it will stand, set them upright in a 
flat dish and pour the boiling sauce over and around 
them. 

94 



i& 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 




HARD BOILED EGGS WITH CHEESE * * 

Prepare the eggs and the sauce as above directed, 
but just before putting the eggs into the sauce stir 
into this a heaping tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese. It will quickly melt and string, and at this 
stage the eggs may go in. 

AN "ENGLISH MONKEY" * * 

Put together in the inner vessel of your chafing- 
dish a cupful of cream, half a cupful of bread crumbs, 
two cupfuls of grated cheese, and a pinch of soda. 
Cook until all are melted and blended. Stir in then 
two beaten eggs, a half-teaspoonful of paprika, and a 
scant teaspoonful of salt. As soon as the mixture 
thickens from the eggs it is ready to serve on hot 
crackers or toast. As will be seen, this is a modifica- 
tion of a Welsh rabbit and is much like what is 
known to us as a cheese fondu or a temperance 
Welsh rabbit. 

BECHAMEL EGGS * * 

Cook together in a chafing-dish a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour until they are blended. Add 
to them a cupful of well-seasoned white stock and 
stir until the sauce thickens. Put in a tablespoonful of 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

capers, a heaping teaspoonful of minced parsley, and 
salt to taste. If the stock was sufficiently salted in 
the first place, no more will be needed now. Lay 
in six hard boiled eggs that have been cut into 
quarters lengthwise and then cut across once. Let 
these get hot, put in one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
and serve. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS ¥ ¥ 

Rather small mushrooms of uniform size should be 
selected for this dish, and, failing them, the French 
champignons will serve. If the fresh mushrooms are 
used they must, of course, be stemmed and peeled. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the double 
boiler of the chafing-dish, lay in the mushrooms, and 
sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper. Simmer 
until tender. Add to them a gill of cream, cook for 
five minutes, and serve on hot buttered toast. 

MUSHROOMS AND BACON ¥ ¥ 

Fry thin slices of breakfast bacon crisp in the 
blazer. Take them out and keep them hot while 
you cook in the bacon fat fresh mushrooms, which 
have been stemmed and peeled. Keep the dish 
covered while the cooking of these goes on and use 









SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

a low flame. Serve bacon and toast together. If 
you wish you can add eggs to the mushrooms when 
they are tender and serve the three dainties together. 

OYSTER OMELET ¥ ¥ 

This is a dish which requires quick work to be 
well done. Put the oysters over the flame in their 
own liquor, using the lower part of the chafing-dish. 
Cook them until they begin to curl just a little, dust 
them with salt and pepper, and set them, covered, 
over hot water. Have ready the blazer, or better 
still, the flat omelet pan, such as may be purchased 
for a chafing-dish, put in it two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and melt this over a quick flame. The five 
eggs that are to make the omelet should have been 
beaten, seasoned, and mixed with a gill of milk. 
Pour into the pan and cook quickly, loosening the 
omelet from the pan with an omelet knife. As soon 
as the omelet is " set," lay the oysters on one-half of it, 
turn the other half over the oysters, and slip to a hot 
platter. The great object is to keep the oysters 
from becoming either cold or tough while waiting 
for the eggs to cook. 



97 



$? — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

CHICKEN AND ASPARAGUS TIPS * * 

Cook together in the blazer a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one of flour until they bubble, and pour upon 
them a cupful of half -milk and half -cream. When 
you have stirred this to a smooth sauce, lay in two 
cupfuls of cold chicken, cut into neat dice, and a 
cupful of boiled asparagus tips. Let all get hot 
together and then stir in slowly one well-beaten egg. 
Season to taste with pepper and salt and serve on 
toast, either on a platter or directly from the blazer 
to the individual plate. 

VEAL AND ASPARAGUS TIPS * * 

This may be prepared in exactly the same way, 
being careful that the veal is tender and well cooked. 
Sweetbreads may be cooked in like fashion, first 
parboiling and blanching the sweetbreads. This is 
done by boiling them for ten minutes and then 
throwing them into cold water. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET * * 

This may be prepared like oyster omelet, except 
that the tips must be boiled until tender before the 
omelet is made, or if the cold boiled tips are used 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

they must be made and kept hot until the omelet is 
is ready. 

STRAWBERRY OMELET * ¥ 

Cap medium sized berries and lay them in the 
blazer of the pan with a tablespoonful of sugar to a 
cupful of the berries and just enough water to keep 
them from burning. Simmer them for five or six 
minutes, until the fruit seems to be cooked. Set it 
aside then to keep warm, — if covered, the fruit will 
hold its heat without putting over hot water, — while 
you make an omelet as previously directed. Lay 
the fruit in it before folding, and, after it is folded, 
sprinkle the omelet with powdered sugar. This 
makes a delicious dessert. Raspberries or peaches 
may be used in place of the strawberries. 

One word of caution may be expedient, even to 
the experienced chafing-dish cook. Try no new dishes 
when guests are present, if they are persons concern- 
ing whom you have the least diffidence. 

LOFC. 



99 

r'-n ifft] 



w - -^ffl 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES 



^ 4 






p; ■ *3E 



CHAPTER VIII 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES 

DISHES prepared by any of the following recipes 
are especially suitable for the Sunday night 
supper. Those that are not served cold may 
either be cooked in the chafing-dish or else prepared 
in advance, so that all they will require will be a few 
minutes in the oven to make them ready for the 
table. With the aid of these recipes and those 
already given the question of what to have for supper 
Sunday night should cease to possess the dignity of a 
problem. 

ANCHOVY TOAST * ¥ 

Cut rather thin slices of stale bread into rounds 
with a biscuit cutter. Toast them lightly and spread 
with butter. Cover each slice thickly with the white 
and yolk of a hard boiled egg, chopped fine, and in 
the centre of the round lay two anchovies, first free- 
ing them from oil. This dish may be served cold 
or set in the oven long enough to become heated. 
103 



//£ 



r ^ .' rfl 



j p — ^e 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CAVIARE TOAST * * 

Prepare the rounds of toast as above. After 
buttering, spread with Russian caviare, and squeeze 
on this a little lemon juice. Serve cold. Either of 
the preceding may be varied by substituting a slice of 
raw tomato for the hard boiled egg. 

JELLIED OYSTERS » * 

Make an aspic jelly according to directions already 
given. In seasoning add to it a few tablespoonfuls of 
tarragon vinegar. Wet a mould with cold water, 
pour a little of the jelly into it, and when partially 
formed lay oysters upon this. Pour in more jelly and 
then another layer of oysters, — do not put these too 
close together, — and continue thus until the mould 
is filled. Or you may use small individual moulds, 
allowing from four to six oysters for each person. In 
serving turn out on lettuce leaves, and pass a good 
mayonnaise with the dish. 

SHRIMPS IN TOMATO ASPIC * ¥ 

Strain the liquid from a can of tomatoes and put 
it over the fire with a couple of slices of onion, a 
stalk of celery, a clove and a little parsley. Simmer 
thirty minutes. Soak quarter of a box of gelatine in 






^ l04 j& 



w — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

a half-cup of water while the tomato is cooking and 
at the end of the half-hour pour the boiling liquid 
on the gelatine. Stir until this is entirely dissolved, 
and turn into a mould wet with cold water, first add- 
ing salt and pepper to taste. If you have a little clear 
consomme in the house it is an addition to the 
flavor, but in all there should not be more than a 
pint of the liquid to this amount of gelatine. If a 
larger quantity of the aspic is needed, increase the 
gelatine in proportion. A half-box of gelatine should 
make a quart of jelly. Have the shelled shrimps, 
either fresh or canned. If the latter, throw them 
into cold water for half an hour after taking from the 
can. Drain, dry, and arrange in the aspic as you 
would the oysters in the preceding recipe. Serve in 
the same fashion on lettuce and with mayonnaise. 

CLAMS IN GREEN PEPPERS * * 

Select six medium-sized green peppers. They 
should be as nearly uniform in size as possible. Cut 
off the tops, remove the seeds, — do not touch them 
with your fingers, at the risk of burned skin, — and 
lay in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out 
and throw them into cold water. 

Cook together a tablespoonful of butter and one 



1 ^ ^g 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



of flour in a saucepan and pour on this one-half pint 
of half milk and half cream. Stir this until it thickens 
and add to it a cupful of chopped clams and the 
mashed yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Cook three 
minutes, season to taste with salt and paprika, squeeze 
in a few drops of lemon juice, and with the mixture 
fill the peppers. Stand them upright, side by side, 
in a baking dish, sprinkle crumbs over the top and 
dot with bits of butter, pour a little of the clam juice 
and water or a half-cupful of weak stock about them 
to prevent their scorching, cook fifteen minutes covered, 
uncover and brown. 

This dish may be made ready in advance and 
then set in the oven for the final baking. 

EGGS AND OYSTERS * * 

Beat six eggs light without separating the yolks. In 
another dish cut into small pieces a dozen large 
oysters. Put into the blazer of a chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste, and stir until melted and blended. Put in the 
beaten eggs, and as soon as they begin to thicken 
add the oysters. Cook until the eggs are firm, and 
serve on plain buttered toast or buttered toast spread 
with anchovy paste. Paprika may be added before 
106 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

serving, but the anchovy will, of course, give suffi- 
cient salt. 

ENGLISH CHICKEN PIE * » 

Select a young tender chicken for this and joint it, 
making two pieces of each leg and wing, dividing the 
sidebones from the back, and making three or four 
pieces of the breast, if the chicken is a fair size. Cut 
a half-pound of corned pork into neat strips, and 
arrange this and the chicken in a deep pudding-dish. 
Moisten a cupful of fine bread crumbs to a paste with 
melted butter and the yolk of a raw egg, seasoning 
with salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and chopped 
parsley. Make this force meat into balls about the 
size of a walnut and drop them into the spaces 
between the pieces of chicken. Over all pour half 
a cupful of cold water. Cover with a good paste, 
leaving a cut in the middle of this at the top. 
While it is baking, covered, in a steady oven, — it 
will take an hour and a half to cook it properly, — 
make a stock of the neck, giblets, and feet, — the 
latter must be scalded and skinned, — well seasoned 
with a slice of onion and a bunch of soup herbs. 
When the stock is ready, strain it and turn it on a 
tablespoonful of soaked gelatine. There should be 
107 



m 



$ > — n 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



about two cupfuls of the stock. Pour this into the pie 
with a funnel inserted in the hole left in the centre of 
the dome of pastry and set aside to cool. When cold 
the liquid will have formed a solid jelly. The pie must 
be served cold, of course, and be cut on the table. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES * * 

Chop fine in a meat chopper the white meat of a 
full grown fowl. The meat should be reduced almost 
to a powder. Put it through a sieve and to two 
cups of it add a half-pint of cream and the whites of 
two eggs, beaten stiff. Season with pepper and salt. 
Whip all together for several minutes that the mixture 
may be well mixed and very light. Have ready 
boiled macaroni or spaghetti, and with this line buttered 
timbale moulds, first seasoning it well. The moulds 
lined, fill the inside with the chicken mixture and set 
in a pan of hot water in the oven. Cover and steam 
for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish and pour 
over the timbales a cream or a mushroom sauce. 

These should be cooked in advance and set in 
a pan of boiling water in the oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes before they are wanted Sunday night. 
The sauce may be made on the stove or in the 
chafing-dish at the table. 

tK ,08 A 



m tag 



w 



^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CALF'S HEAD A LA VINAIGRETTE * * 

Arrange on a flat dish the boiled meat of the calf's 
head cut into neat strips and pour over it a vinaigrette 
sauce, made as follows: Mix a teaspoonful of salt, a 
quarter-teaspoonful of paprika, and a dash of white 
pepper with six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of white wine vinegar and one tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar. Stir all until well blended and 
then add a tablespoonful each of mixed cucumber 
pickles and green pepper (if you cannot get the 
latter use half as much chopped pickle), a teaspoonful 
each of capers, minced chives, and parsley. Serve 
cold. I add this last direction bearing in mind a 
green cook of my own who once served mint sauce 
boiling hot! 

CHICKEN AND GREEN PEA SALAD * * 

Cut cold roast or boiled chicken into neat pieces 
as for ordinary chicken salad, and to every cupful of 
this allow a half-cupful of cooked green pease, either 
the fresh or the canned. If the latter, they should be 
cooked first for ten minutes in boiling water and then 
drained very dry. Serve on lettuce with a good 
mayonnaise and season well. 

109 



57 

I 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS * ¥ 

Select medium-sized cucumbers. Peel them, cut 
them in half lengthwise, scrape out the seeds and lay 
in cold water for half an hour. Prepare a stuffing of 
a cupful of chopped cold meat, — veal or chicken or 
ham. A good mixture is two-thirds veal or chicken 
and one-third boiled ham. Mince rather fine. Brown 
a half-cupful of crumbs lightly in butter and mix 
with the meat Season with salt and pepper and a 
dash of lemon juice. Soften with a gill of cream, or 
as much milk and a tablespoonful of butter. Fill the 
boat-shaped cucumber halves with this stuffing, lay 
them side by side in a baking-pan, and pour around 
them a cupful of weak stock. Bake covered twenty 
minutes, uncover, strew the cucumbers with crumbs 
and a little butter and brown lightly. They are very 
delicious either as a side-dish or as the main feature 
of the supper. 

FRIED GREEN PEPPERS * * 

Cut green peppers into strips lengthwise, removing 
the stem and the seeds, and fry until soft in butter. 
These may be done in the chafing-dish and make a 
savory accompaniment to cold meat or are good served 
with bacon or broiled ham or with broiled oysters. 
110 

F3 k 



b 






SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



cSLfp 



FRIED GREEN TOMATOES * * 

These should be sliced across, in rather thick 
pieces, and may be cooked in the same way as the 
green peppers and served in like fashion. Many per- 
sons know the good of fried ripe tomatoes without 
suspecting how delicious are those cooked while they 
are still green. Such a dish as this is especially good 
in the fall of the year when green tomatoes are 
plentiful in our markets. 

A SUNDAY DINNER LEFT OVER * * 

The cold beef left over from the Sunday dinner 
and served sliced at the Sunday night supper com- 
mends itself to few, except in hot weather, when it 
may be served with a salad. A hot and savory dish 
may be made of it with little extra care, if sufficient 
mashed potato has been provided to make sure that 
there shall be a cupful of this saved from the midday 
meal. 

Chop the meat coarsely and put it into a baking- 
dish, pouring over it the gravy. Take care that this 
is seasoned well, adding, if necessary, a little onion 
juice, a dash of Worcestershire sauce, and one of 
kitchen bouquet. Soften the mashed potato with 
milk if it is inclined to be stiff, stir into it a beaten 



11 



4¥ 



IT 



#t!3 



W> "« 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

egg and spread it over the minced beef. Put in the 
oven covered for twenty minutes, uncover long 
enough to brown lightly before sending to table. If 
preferred, the meat and potato pate may be cooked 
in individual dishes. 

SALLY LUNN * * 

Beat two eggs light, without separating the whites 
and yolks and stir into them three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, a half cupful of warm milk and a 
quarter teaspoonful of baking soda, dissolving this first 
in a little boiling water. Into this beat two cupfuls of 
flour with which have been sifted a half teaspoonful 
each of salt and sugar. Last of all dissolve a half 
yeast cake in half a cup of warm water and stir into 
the batter. Beat hard until you have a smooth 
batter and turn into a round greased mould to rise. 
If this is set at noon and put in a tolerably warm 
place it will have risen sufficiently to bake in time 
for supper. Bake for half an hour or until a straw 
comes clean from it. This is a delicious hot bread. 

RICE BREAD * ¥ 

Beat hot water into two cupfuls of cold boiled rice 
until it is the consistency of a rather thick batter. To 

r ^ — ft frh 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



this add three eggs, whipped light, a tablespoonful of 
butter, a cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and just enough milk to make a batter that 
will pour. Bake in a buttered pan. When done, 
cut into squares, split, butter and serve hot. 

WAFER MUFFINS * ¥ 

Beat two eggs light, put with them two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, a cup of cream or rich milk, 
one saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder and flour enough to make a very soft dough. 
Form this with the hands into balls the size of the 
yolk of a hard boiled egg and then roll each into 
a cake about as large as a tea-plate. They should 
not be much thicker than paper. Bake on a hot pan 
in a quick oven, taking care that they do not scorch. 
Eat with butter. 

DEVILLED BREAD * * 

Cut stale bread, — baker *s bread is preferable, — 
into neat slices, and trim off the crust. Spread the 
bread lightly with butter, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
a dust of paprika and a little salt, and put into a bak- 
ing pan. Set in a quick oven long enough to melt 
the cheese a little and to crisp the bread. 



113 



<P 






?Sll 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

It is often slight trouble to mix one of these hot 
breads or some other of similar nature, and its 
presence makes the supper a feast, even if the other 
items of the menu are simple. With Sally Lunn, 
cold meat, a salad, and a simple sweet one has a 
supper which any one with an appetite and a reason- 
able digestion might be glad to share. 



A FEW SWEETS 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM * » 

Soak half a box of gelatine for half an hour in 
cold water enough to cover it. During this time let 
two cupfuls of the shredded pineapple simmer over 
the fire with a cupful of sugar. Take from the 
stove, add the gelatine and stir until this is dis- 
solved. Put aside until the jelly is cool and begins 
to show signs of forming around the edge. Set in a 
pan of cracked ice and beat hard with an egg-beater 
until the jelly begins to stiffen, and then stir in lightly 
a pint of cream, whipped stiff. Turn into a mould, 
place on the ice, and leave there until it is wanted. 

For this dish either the fresh or the canned pine- 
apple may be used. If the latter is pretty sweet, 
less sugar may be put with it in cooking. 

114 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



A SURPRISE CUSTARD * * 

Make a good custard of a quart of milk, a cupful 
of sugar, and five eggs. Scald the milk in a double 
boiler, add the sugar and the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and three of the whites, and cook until the 
custard thickens. Take from the fire and set aside 
to cool. When ready to serve put a teaspoonful of 
fruit jelly or of jam into the bottom of each cup in 
which the custard is to be served and fill up with 
the custard. Make a meringue of the remaining 
whites of the eggs and a little sugar, heap this on the 
custard and dot with bits of bright jelly. Have 
these or any other custards served as nearly ice cold 
as possible. Light cakes should be passed with them. 

MACAROON CUSTARD * ¥ 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in half a cupful 
of water for half an hour. Make a light custard of 
a pint of milk, two eggs, the whites and the yolks 
both, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When cooked 
take it from the fire and stir in the gelatine. As soon 
as this is dissolved and well mixed set the custard 
aside to harden, flavoring it with vanilla. When 
firm, take the custard from the dish by spoonfuls, 
roll each of them in powdered macaroons, and serve 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

heaped on a dish. Macaroons to be thus used 
should be stale and dry enough to crumble well 
without the particles sticking together. 

COFFEE JUNKET * * 

To a pint and a half of milk add half a cupful of 
very strong black coffee. Sweeten to taste with granu- 
lated sugar and stir until this is thoroughly dissolved. 
Put in a tablespoonful of liquid rennet or a rennet 
tablet which has been dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
water. Let the dish stand in a room of moderate 
temperature until the junket is formed and then put 
at once on the ice or in a cold place. Serve with 
cream, either whipped or plain. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI JELLY * * 

Make a good wine jelly by soaking a half-box of 
gelatine in half a cupful of cold water for an hour, 
and pouring upon it two cupfuls of boiling water in 
which has been dissolved a cupful of sugar. Stir until 
the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, add the juice of a 
lemon and a gill and a half of sherry. Set aside to 
cool. When the jelly has begun to form, put a layer 
of it in the bottom of a mould and arrange upon it 
sliced preserved or candied fruit. If the former, care 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

should be taken to have it drained of every particle 
of liquor or juice. Any fruit may be used, — cherries, 
pineapple, apricots, and the like if the crystallized fruits 
are employed, preserved or canned peaches, pears, 
berries, etc., if the canned fruits are used. Fresh 
fruits may also serve in this way. I have eaten wine 
jelly with ripe strawberries embedded in it, and it 
was a pretty and delicious dish. The layer of fruit 
should be followed by one of jelly and so on until the 
mould is filled. Set on the ice until firm and serve 
very cold, with cream, plain or whipped. The jelly 
may also be set to form in individual moulds and 
these served on a flat dish surrounded by whipped 
cream. 

MAPLE CREAM FILLING FOR CAKE * » 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of water. When soft, dissolve it over the 
fire in a very little boiling water. Whip a pint of 
cream stiff and beat into it the dissolved gelatine. 
Sweeten well with finely crushed maple sugar. This 
filling may be put between layers of plain cup cake 
or of any simple cake such as is used for a layer 
cake, and also may be spread over the top. Do the 
spreading before the gelatine has stiffened too much. 

p± & — m \ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

NUT CAKES * * 

Beat two eggs and stir into them a cupful of light 
brown sugar and two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. 
Add to them one cup of nut meats, chopped fine. 
Spread the mixture in a very thin layer on a well- 
greased tin and bake ten minutes or until lightly 
browned, — not scorched or blackened. Cut into 
squares and take quickly from the tin. They will 
become crisp when exposed to the air. 



THE END. 



118 <% 



W ^B 



INDEX 




=^b 



w 



« 



INDEX 



An "English Monkey" 

Anchovy Toast 

An Unusual Potato Salad 

Asparagus Omelet 

A Sunday Dinner Left Over 

A Surprise Custard 

A Word about Tomato Salads 

Bechamel Eggs 
Beef 

Devilled . 

Smoked . 

Spiced 

With Tomato Sauce 

Cabbage and Cheese . 
Cake Custard . 
Calves' Head a la Vinaigrette 
Caviar Canapes 
Caviare Toast . 
Chafing-Dish Creations . 
Cheese Sandwiches, Fried 
Chicken and Green Pea Salad 
Chicken, Galantine 

And Asparagus Tips 



Page 

94 
103 

30 

98 
111 
115 

56 

94 

28 
29 
52 
28 

31 

71 

109 

78 

104 

89 

29 

109 

81 

98 



ErB 5 !: 



121 



d 



w— 


— ^-13 


INDEX 




Page 


Chicken in Jelly 


. 81 


Mousse 


. 83 


Pie, English 


107 


Timbales .... 


108 


Chocolate, Hot 


. 42 


Clam Canapes 


78 


Clams, Devilled, Panned 


64 


In Green Peppers 


105 


Scalloped in Shells 


61 


Coffee Junket .... 


116 


Cold Meat in Aspic 


. 54 


Custard, A Surprise 


115 


Cake .... 


71 


Macaroon 


115 


Cucumbers, Stuffed 


110 


Cranberry Bavarian Cream 


. 70 


Creamed Tomatoes 


. 27 


Creamed Panned Oysters 


. 62 


Desserts 




A Surprise Custard 


115 


Cake Custard 


71 


Coffee Junket .... 


116 


Cranberry Bavarian Cream 


70 


Fig and Nut Jelly . 


. 85 


Frozen Peaches with Ice Cream 


. 84 


Fruit Syllabub 


68 


Italian Chestnut Pudding . 


68 


Macaroon Custard 


115 


Marshmallows and Maraschino 


86 


Orange Jelly 


69 


Pineapple Bavarian Cream 


114 


Raspberry Tapioca 


70 


Stewed Figs with Cream . 


85 


■•\ 122 

8t\ 


t4£ 


L^rfcri ivii__i 



ITV ■ 


w 


S 


INDEX 






Page 


Desserts (continued) 




Stuffed Pineapple . 


. 67 


Tutti-Frutti Jelly . 


. 116 


Devilled Beef or Mutton 


. 28 


Devilled Bread 


. 113 


Devilled Panned Clams 


. 64 


Duck or Chicken in Jelly 


. 81 


Eggs, a la Newburg 


. 92 


And Tomato Scallops 


. 65 


Bechamel .... 


. 94 


Hard Boiled with Cheese . 


. 94 


Hard Boiled in Cream Sauce 


. 95 


Spanish .... 


. 92 


With Mushrooms . 


. 93 


And Oysters 


. 106 


English Chicken Pie 


. 107 


Fig and Nut Jelly 


. 85 


Fish 




Clam Canapes . . . 


. 78 


Clams in Green Peppers . 


. 105 


Clams Scalloped in Shell . 


. 61 


Devilled Panned Clams 


. 64 


Lobster Salad in Shell 


. 83 


Shrimps in Tomato Aspic . 


. 104 


Savory Lobster 


. 64 


Fruit Syllabub .... 


. 68 


Green Pease in Aspic . 


. 56 


Hot Chocolate 


. 42 


Italian Chestnut Pudding 


. 68 


Jelly, Fig and Nut 


. 85 


"K 123 

r-'-KN „,,„ 


A 


* 


1±TIT\ 


• 



w 



tf£ 






^ 



Jelly, Orange . 
Quick Aspic 
Tutti-Frutti 

Liver Loaf 

Lobster Salad in Shell 

Macaroon Custard 
Maple Cream Filling for Cake 
Marshmallows and Marachino 
Meat and Green Pepper Scallop 
Mushrooms and Bacon 
Mushrooms, Stewed 
Mushrooms with Eggs 
Mutton, Devilled 

Nut Cakes 

Orange Jelly . 
Oysters, Creamed, Pann 

Jellied . 

Omelet 

Omelet 

And Eggs 
Omelets 

Asparagus 

Oyster 

Oyster 

Strawberry 

Panned Kidneys 

Peaches, Frozen with Ice Cream 

Peppers, Fried Green 

Pillau of Rice and Peppers 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

Quick Aspic Jelly 



INDEX 



Page 

69 

80 

116 

79 
83 

115 
117 
86 
65 
96 
96 
93 
28 

118 

69 
62 

104 
67 
97 

106 

98 
67 
97 
99 

63 
84 

110 
63 

114 

80 






124 



a, 



w 



INDEX 



^ 



ErD-\ 



Raspberry Tapioca 
Rice Bread 

Salads 

Chicken and Green Pease 

Lobster in Shell 

Potato 

Tomato . 
Sally Lunn 
Savory Lobster 

Mince of Cold Meats 

Rice and Tomato 

Smoked Beef 
Shrimps in Tomato Aspic 
Spanish Eggs . 
Spiced Beef 

Stewed Figs with Cream 
Stewed Mushrooms 
Strawberry Omelet 
Stuffed Cucumbers 
Stuffed Pineapple 

Toast, Anchovy 

Caviare . 
Tomato and Egg Scallop 

Creamed . 

Fried 

Fried, Green 

In Aspic . 

Salad 

Sauce with Beef 

With Rice 

With Whipped Cream 
Tongue Mousse 

125 



Page 
70 

112 



109 
83 
30 
56 

112 
64 
29 
66 
29 

104 
92 
52 
85 
96 
99 

110 
67 

103 
104 
66 
27 
27 
111 
55 
56 
28 
66 
84 
82 






w 






26 




INDEX 



Tutti-Frutti Jelly 




Page 

. 116 


Unusual Savories and Sweets 


. 


. 61 


Veal and Asparagus Tips 
Loaf 


• ' 


. 98 
. 79 


Wafer Muffins 


m 


. 113 



Ml 



Wl 



m* 



m 



AUb 19 1907 



fiE 




M 







M 



m 



m* 




M 



w? 



8 



£ 



JW 



?0 



V 



£ 



m 



51? 



m* m 



m 




^ 



>i> 









■A 






m 



*m 



m 




*m 



it 



m 



m* 




m 



g 



•A 



^PSF 



70 



<4 



■L 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

ii if ii' iiiii i ii ii mil 




014 523 890 



ALBEUT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^^"^'zr-^^- - - ~ ■-- 






From home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





iif) 



iCO 

=o 

I GO 

Ilo 
=00 

iO 



I-* 

=cvj 

i03 



ico 



^JII. >v^^ ^^N*^, ^^ 



U^^iS\3$#. Vs^^"^ M^3S(jsaW 



P/^ 

^ 



tWiiiS'Veaiaiw^iVjiiM'-i J\:~ ■. 



I f 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



\wfc\i^— ^ 









^ 



') M>^- 






M 

^ 




fwvV 



^Wk«.^^^3 










l^"W»i«*W»f*«*li 



!?,-_ 






Sunday 

Miqbt 
Suppers 



=^ 



By 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

JlaOmr of "The Expert Maid Servant," "The 
Qiafing-Dish Supper," etc. 




BOSTON 

DANA ESTES & COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



-1^ 






w 



eni.>(*-i"i.-»s^sfw 



TK 



^ 



Copyright, tgoj 
By Dana Estes & Company 

All rights reserved 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



£ >\ ElecUotyped and Printed by C. H. Simonds & Co. 



Eri^ 



Boston, U.S. A. 







CONTENTS 

» ¥ 

Chapter Page 

I. THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER . 11 
II. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR IN- 

TIMATE GUESTS 23 

III. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS A 

SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION ... 35 

IV. THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR HOT 

WEATHER 47 

V. UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND SWEETS . 61 

VI. COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY NIGHT 

SUPPER 75 

VU. CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS ... 89 
VIII. ADDITIONAL REQPES FOR SUNDAY 

NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES ... 103 



M5 



4>^ 



Mi 




nsv^K?)^ ,^r-i 

"vEB^ 



;Vj^ VWy Wi-. -^^^^ 














a 

^ 



i 



THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT 
SUPPER 



[y-i\=i===r^ z==/5lil 







'^) 




^' 









SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

¥ ¥ 

CHAPTER I 

THE HOME SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 

IN most homes the Sunday night supper is a com- 
promise. Like the majority of compromises, it sat- 
isfies no one. It is an attempt to serve God and 
Mammon, respectively represented by the family's de- 
sires and the cook's preferences, and is thoroughly 
acceptable to neither. The members of the household, 
no matter how substemtial the midday meal with which 
they have overtaxed the digestions accustomed to a 
light luncheon, feel a hollow void, a dismeJ craving, as 
the hour approaches when dinner is usually served on 
the unhallowed days of the week. The spirit is willing 
to keep the Sabbath, but the flesh is weak. Despite 
long once-a-weekly training, it yearns for something 
better than it has known on most preceding Sunday 
nights. 

That would be a bold spirit who would venture to 

'^. '' ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

suggest a late dinner on Sunday. Common sense may 
advise it, the perishing body may cry out in protest 
against having its regular habits interfered with, cuid 
the digestion butchered to make a kitchen holiday. 
It is of no avail. Some few unregenerates there be 
who still persist in keeping their living even-threaded 
the whole week through, and who dine at the same 
hour on Sunday as on other days. But they don't 
win a martyr's crown or the kf^i^os that should be 
bestowed upon the heroic leaders of a popular reform. 
They are criticized adversely, as a rule, and the suf- 
ferers who make a merit of necessity by declaring they 
do not care for grapes anyhow, sissert boldly, " But we 
like supper once a week. We all enjoy it for a 
change." 

It is a change, there is no doubt of that! But is 
it really hailed with joy? Does the family assemble 
for it v\rith any measure of the pleasant anticipation 
that greets the EUinouncement, "Dinner is served"? 
1 Irow not! 

Sweeping statements are always deingerous, but there 
is no one of ordinary candor who cannot marshal in 
his memory a dismal array of Sunday night supper- 
tables. As a rule, they are melancholy reminders of 
peist joys in the shape of the cold relics of Saturday 



ht 



^^^^ ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

night's or Sunday noon's dinner. Baked meats that 
1 1 • were known and loved earlier — when hot — now 
coldly furnish forth the evening meal. In nine cases 
out of ten the housekeeper has so strained her invent- 
ive powers by the effort to do the marketing of two 
days in one, to plan something that will be aveiilable 
I for the weish-day lunch and spare the cook too much 

I I labor over the wash-day dinner, that the provision for 
; I the Sunday night supper seems a matter of the leist 

I I importance — litereJIy. The housekeeper leaves the 
j I meal to Providence, with the usual result that awaits 

upon blind trust in Providence unbacked by human 
endeavor. At the last moment the cold meat is sliced, 
the cold bread is cut, the cold sweet brought forth, 
and a calch-ets-catch-can meal is spread out to deaden 
hunger if it cannot tempt the appetite. The powers 
I I that be in the kitchen are possibly pleased. No 

others! 

Take the honest verdict of most citizens, and see if 
it would not be : " We don't care much for supper 
I at our house on Sunday night. You see, we have 

such a hearty meal m the middle of the day," etc. 
You recognize the formula? We have all heard it 
often enough. 

Yet there are great possibilities in the Sunday night 

% 1 f ^ 



ED 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



supper. It may be made a most attractive meal, which 
will render one willing to have it or another like it 
come again in a week, instead of arousing thankhibess 
that the Sunday night supper arrives but once in seven 
days. It will mean trouble, of course. If there is but 
one maid emd she goes out every other Sunday, and 
the family cannot flee for refuge to the house of a 
friend or to a restaurant alternate Sunday nights, after 
the fctshion of those who refuse to take the appointed 
discipline that comes their way, the housekeeper will 
have to cultivate the chafing-dish habit, make a study 
of salads, devote herself to the perused of cook-books 
that give attention to attractive cold dishes^ and even 
reconcile herself to half an hour in the kitchen on 
Sunday afternoon. 

Of course it is a nuisance. There are certeiin young 
housekeepers who have not yet overworked their ideals, 
and a few older ones who have preserved theirs by 
some special dispensation, who decletre they find joy 
in going into their kitchens once a week and getting 
supper. The great etrmy of women who keep metids 
are usually so discouraged by the difference between 
the kitchen as they wish it to be, and the kitchen as 
it is — a state of affairs which the preparation of the 
Sunday night supper affords exceptional opportunities 
14 




^ 



w ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

for observing — that the delights of getting a meal even 
once a fortnight are not unmixed with distress. And 
when a woman does her own work all through the 
week, she is hardly to be blamed if, by the time 
Sunday night comes, she feels that she would like to 
drop the burden for awhile and give herself a few 
hours' rest before she resumes the load that is await- 
ing her on Monday morning. 

When I think of all this, I blush for shame that I 
should venture to criticize even dry slices of overdone 
beef, imchilled salads, emd stale bread, with perhaps 
Cctnned fruit emd cake to lend a pseudo-festive air to 
the occasion. Still, it would have been very little 
more trouble to make the beef hot in a savory sauce, 
to have the salad crisp and well dressed, to toast the 
bread. Or, better still, the Sunday night supper might 
have been plaimed for on Saturday morning. It is 
likely that the cake was made then in the thought of 
its use on Sunday. A litde forethought would have 
arranged that the same meat should not appeeir at 
both dinner and supper. Keep the beef left-overs 
until Monday, but don't have them when the more 
juicy and appetizing memories of their first appearance 
are still fresh on the palate. 

I have all sympathy for the woman who lives twelve 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

miles from a lemon, and further still from a fancy 
grocery. But there are few women who may not in 
this day and generation have m the house the emer- 
gency supplies that make a good hot dish for supper 
possible. Cheese is sJways with us and may appear 
in any one of a dozen forms. The tin can accom- 
panies the pioneer on his travels, and its contents may 
be converted into a relish that will redeem any supper 
from the charge of commonplaceness. The salad in 
its green variety caimot always be with us, but a sub- 
stitute for lettuce and chicory and endive and Romaine 
may be achieved by the aid of the cabbage, the 
potato, the onion, the egg, to say nothing of the 
canned asparagus, or tomato, or beet, or beeui, or 
green pea. A little thought will do it all, and more 
even than I have suggested. 

I have not touched upon eggs sis yet, except cis 
they may serve in a seJad. But the half has never 
been told of what the egg may do as a savory supper 
dish. Alone, in combination, hot, cold, boiled hard, 
plain, or with a sauce, elaborately or simply cooked 
— those who know eggs only as they have encoun- 
tered them in such primitive forms as boiled, fried, 
poached, or scrambled, have yet much, much to leam. 
And eggs, at least, are usually within reach. I guard 



m 




.£& 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

my statement, recollecting the temble deaith o( eggs 
familial to dwellers in the country, and comparatively 
unknown to those who live in cities. There are times 
of year when eggs are costly, but even at their high- 
est they are cheaper theui meat, and when combined 
with left-overs will go further than would seem cred- 
ible to the uninitiated. 

I have spoken of toast — toast the maligned, the mis- 
understood. Tliere are not wanting those who think 
they have known toast all their lives, and who yet 
have no knowledge of it at its highest perfection. It 
is worth the trouble to give them the joy which 
would accompeiny the great awakening that would be 
theirs could they once eat toast as it may be. The 
crust trimmed off, the bread cut neither too thick nor 
too thin, not too pale and not too brown, oversoftness 
and undue hardness both avoided, the butter evenly 
spread, not dumped to form one greasy hollow in the 
centre of the slice — such toast as this may make a 
Sunday night supper well worth while, even if served 
with plain cold meat 

Such buttered toast might well banish dememds for 
any variation in the bread supply, and yet even with 
this there may be an occasional new sensation plaimed. 
Anchovy toast, baked toast, tomato toast, egg toast — 





- -4m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



here again is a field for new departures and many 
inventions. 

The home supper-table should attract the eye as 
well as coax the appetite. It should not be like the 
supper-tables of any common week-day night This 
is the time to bring forth the best china and glass, 
especially if the members of the family are going to 
wash them eifterwards. There should be the prettiest 
napery used. The table should have nothing of the 
slapdash about it. If there are younger members of 
die household who are urged to take part in getting 
the Sunday night supper, they should be given their 
heads in rendering the table as charming as possible. 
Let them plan surprises of any sort. 

If they wish to have home-made candies and salted 
nuts d their own manufacture as a part of the feast, 
encourage the inclinations. Don't let the meal be the 
scrap-bag of the commissariat or the left-over odd 
number of the week. Give it a chance to redeem 
itself from the obloquy into which it has generally 
fallen. 

I wish I could head an insunection against the 
Sunday night supper as it is usually met. It would be 
swept out of existence with a celerity that would be 
astonishing even m this day of rapid transit. Gone 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

forever would be the supper-table of one section of 
the country — the plate of cold chipped beef or dried 
codfish, the pile of white and brown bread, the little 
dishes of apple sauce, the large pale ginger cookies. 
Gone, too, would be that other variety of supper-table 
which thinks to make up for its lack of savory dishes 
by its much cake. I cun afrsiid even baked heans eind 
brown bread, beloved though they are by certain worthy 
beings, might not stand against the besom of destruction. 

Instead of any or all of these the supper-table that 
should supplant them should be a board of surprises. 
The Sunday night supper should be the unexpected 
feast of the week. At this meal the family would 
never know what to look for. One time the repast 
would be hot and savory, the next it would be cold 
but no less savory. New and startling salads would 
make their first bow, so to speak, at the Sunday night 
supper-table, and it would be the housekeeper's dis- 
sipation to devise and search out novelties for this 
meal. Here she should give rein to any pioneering 
or adventurous spirit she had in her, euid train her 
family to equal daring. 

All this does not mean — as it may sound — that 
the Sunday night supper should be an expensive or 
unwholesome meal. All I plead for is its release fcom 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



the trammels of conventionality. Forget the hackneyed, 
the usual, the stereotyped. Essay new endeavors. 
Make this the festival of the week. In language 
suitable to the day, let the Sunday night supper have 
free course and be glorified. 



3 ; 









THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
INTIMATE GUESTS 



w 



^ 



SKWBW5:»E«Brt'-J 



w^ —^ 



CHAPTER II 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
INTIMATE GUESTS 

THE thoughtful housekeeper will refrciin from making 
unnecessciry toil for the man servant and maid 
servant within her gates on the first day of the week, 
but she will so plan her work that she may have a 
place for a friend on Sunday at her dinner or supper 
table, and feel that she is indulging in one of those 
"works of necessity and mercy," which are counte- 
neuiced even by the Westminster catechism. 

The noon dinner has its advantages ets a time for 
the intimate guest, but they are not equal to those of 
the Sunday night supper. There is almost always 
something that may be done on Sunday afternoon. 
Calls may be paid, in tolerable weather it is the time 
preeminently for long weJks or for lazy indoor rest. 
But Sunday evening is different. Then the hours may 
be inclined to hang a trifle heavily euid one welcomes 
a fcishion of spending them pleaseintly. 

When I speak of intimate guests at the Sunday 



w — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



night supper I refer to those for whom no elaborate 
preparations need be made. If the right sort of effort 
is given to convert the often cold and unattractive 
Sunday night supper into a pleeising and appetizing meal, 
no greater labor is involved by the presence of a visitor 
than the placing of another plate at the table, and 
the Welshing of a few more dishes ctfterwards. I know 
of some households in which the guests are allowed 
to come out into the kitchen and take merry part in 
the preparation of the meal. The recollection is with 
me of a certain spotless kitchen, its walls covered with 
enamelled blue and white oilcloth, the painted floor 
softened here and there by a rug, where I have seen 
one {Toung man laboriously toasting bread while an- 
other devoted the best powers of his mind to making 
drip coffee. The mushrooms that were to go on the 
toast were cooked afterwards in the chafing-dish, by 
the daughter of the house, while the son compounded 
the salad on the supper-table. 

Such a feast as this is an especial treat to the 
young men and women who are away from home 
and dwell in boarding-houses. Mission work it might 
be called, to invite them for the Sunday night meal 
that is so forlorn to the exile from home comforts. 
Perhaps the boon is . as great to the overworked 
24 



sP 



ErlH 




i! i 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

housekeeper, who is tired to death of her own table 
and longs for a taste of food that has been planned 
and purchased by some one else. She knows how to 
appreciate the good things that are set before her! 

It is a mistake to think that a servant must be 
kept at home for such a festivity as this. Perhaps it is 
a help to have her when the labor of washing up 
succeeds the meal, — but even this may be turned into 
a frolic. The work of making ready for the feast may 
nearly all have been done earlier in the day or on 
Saturday morning. 

It is little trouble to pleui out a few attractive menus 
for Sunday night suppers. Cold meat is often taken for 
granted, and there are combinations m which it may be 
attractive. But if the meat is cold there should be 
something to offset it For insteuice, there may be cold 
meat and a salad, or cold meat and aspic jelly. These 
do well for weinn weather, but in winter the stomach 
pleads for something more savory. Then is the time 
to have fried green peppers or fried tomatoes, — when 
fresh tomatoes can not be bought the whole canned 
tomatoes sure excellent to have fried or devilled. Lyon- 
naise potatoes are good with cold meat, Etnd there 
are other savory ways of preparing vegetables. 

But perhaps cold meat is more attractive when it is 
25 



tl 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

not cold, — if the bull may be pardoned. That is, it 
may be made hot in some way that wrill tempt the 
palate far more than if it appeared m its cold state. 
Such cookery may be done in the kitchen or on th6 
table in a chafing-dish. Or the cold meat may be 
dispensed with altogether and its place taken by a 
dish of eggs or one of shell-fish or cheese. The 
dwellers near the coast may make good use of oysters 
and clams and scallops and lobsters; those who live 
further inleuid will find their mainstay in eggs and 
cheese. 

The salad is not to be overlooked. If one can 
not obtain the green salad except at a high price, — 
and there are localities where it can oiJy be found 
during the weather when it will grow out-of-doors, — 
vegetables may be used in salad and will be found 
delicious. There are good boiled dressings, — nearly 
all housekeepers have two or three on their list, — and 
some of the best vegetable salads sure better with a 
boiled dressing than even with a mayonnaise. 

On the question of sweets perhaps it is not neces- 
sary to dwell at length. Generally they are better 
understood them are savories. The housekeeper turns to 
her store of canned or preserved fruit for her Sunday 
night dessert, suid this she supplements by cake made 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 






on Saturday. Or she prepares jelly or blanc-mange 
or pastry on Saturday. The sweet requires less 
thought than euiything else. 

There are some households, mostly of New Elng- 
Ictnd origin, where brown bread and baked beans are 
a welcome dish for Sunday night supper. If the 
dwellers in other parts of the country can not quite 
understamd this taste, they may yet respect it aad con- 
gratulate its p>ossessors upon the ease with which they 
Cctn gratify it. 

FRIED TOMATOES ♦ ♦ 

If the tomatoes are fresh, cut them Into thick slices, 
without peeling. If Ceumed whole, slice them, and if 
the ordineury canned tomatoes are used, select the 
firmest portions and drain ofi the liquor. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into a bying-pan or into the blazer 
of a cheding-dish ; lay in the tomatoes ; if fresh, let 
them cook, until tender; if canned, until hot through. 
Season with salt and pepper. 



CREAMED TOMATOES » » 

These may be fried as in the foregoing recipe. 
When hot through, draw them to one side of the pan 
and stir into the tomato juice and melted butter two 

sK " ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir quickly, that it may blend 
before it browns, add a scauit half-pint of milk, and 
continue to stir until you have a smooth sauce. Move 
the tomatoes back into the sauce ; season and serve. 

BEEF WITH TOMATO SAUCE ¥ * 

Heat together a tablespoon of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of good tomato catsup, and a cupful of stock, 
soup, or gravy. When this is smoking hot, lay in the 
slices of beef, turn them over in the sauce until heated 
through, add pepper and salt, and serve. Any cold 
meat may be used in this way, and veal or mutton is 
even better tham beef when weurmed over in this sauce. 

DEVILLED BEEF OR MUTTON ♦ * 

Rather underdone meat should be used. Work a 
saltspoonful of dry mustard and a dash of cayenne 
into a tablespoonful of butter, and cream this, using a 
fork, with a teaspoonful each of vinegar and Worces- 
tershire sauce and a half-teaspoonful of salt. Have 
your meat cut into rather thin slices ; make gashes in 
this with a knife and rub in the " devilled " mixture. 
Heat a little butter in a frying-pan, — very little, — and 
grill the meat in this. If desired, it may be cooked 
in the blazer of a chafing-dish. 
28 



El-TH: 




""^ SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



SAVORY SMOKED BEEF ♦ * 

Heal a cupful of milk over the fire or in a chafing' 
dish and put with it a tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until melted. Lay m a cupful or more of dried 
beef, cut into rather small pieces or thin slices ; cook 
five minutes, turn in two beaten eggs, and stir until 
the sauce is thick. Add a little pepper and serve 
on toEist or on hot crackers 

SAVORY MINCE OF COLD MEAT ♦ ¥ jt 

ii 
This CcUi be prepared in a chafing-dish. Melt a | 

tablespoonful of butter or good dripping, auid add to 
it half a teaspoonful of onion juice. Put into this 
chopped cold meat of any sort, and moisten it to the 
consistency you desire with the gravy saved from the 
roast. Chicken is especially good cooked in this way. 
Season with celery salt and pepper, and, with any- 
thing except chicken, put in a tablespoonful of Worces- j ]? 
tershire sauce at the last. If beef is used, as much 
chopped potato as meat may be added if desired. 

FRIED CHEESE SANDWICHES ¥ ¥ 

Grate a cupful of soft fresh cheese. Make it into 
a peiste with cream, and season with a quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and a pinch of paprica or black 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

pepper. Spread this on thin slices of bread, from 
which the crust has, been cut, and put the spread 
sides together like sandwiches. Lay in a little 
hot butter in a frying pan or blazer, and brown 
lightly. 

AN UNUSUAL POTATO SALAD ♦ * 

Every one knows the stock potato salad. The fol' 
lowing is a different thing: 

Rub two cups of metshed potato through a colan- 
der. Chop fine three-quarters of a cupful of white 
cabbage. Mince two tablespoonfuls of gherkin pickles, 
pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix all 
together. Prepare the dressing, by heating to boiling 
half a cupful of vinegeir, stirring into it a beaten egg, 
a tablespoonful of butter, a teeispbonful of white sugcir, 
a ScJtspoonful of celery saJt, and black pepper and 
ScJt to tetste. Wet a teaspoonful of flour with a little 
cold vinegEir and add to these. Cook all together, 
stirring constantly until the dressing thickens, zind then 
pour it upon the salad. Toss and mix with a silver 
fork smd let the salad be ice cold before serving. If 
chopped celery can be used instead of the cabbage, 
the salad is better. 

It is years since I first ate this salad down in the 

1^ " - ^ 



m 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

Old Dominion, but I think it now, as I thought it 
then, the best potato salad I ever tasted. 

CABBAGE AND CHEESE » ♦ 

This is another dish that may be made ready in 
advance and that is delicious with cold meat Boil 
the cabbage in two waters, drain, euid, when cold, 
chop it Put a layer of it, well-seasoned vnth salt 
and pepper, in a buttered bake-dish. Pour on this a 
white sauce, made by cooking together a tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour until they bubble, mixing with 
these a cupful of milk cind stirring until aH are thick cuid 
well blended. Season v\rith salt and pepper. On the 
white sauce, when it has been poured over the cab- 
bage, sprinkle a heaping tablespoonful of grated 
cheese. Put m more cabbage, and repeat the sauce 
and cheese until the dish is filled, making cheese with 
a few fine crumbs the last layer. Bake, covered, 
about half an hour, then uncover and brown. 






31 



s 






^■3 



B#fc 









THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS 
A SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION 



i ^ m \ 



w 



'^ 






d 



W ' — ^ 






CHAPTER III 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER AS A 
SMALL SOCIAL FUNCTION 

OUNDAY entertaining has gained in popularity 
^^ during the past ten years. As we have drifted 
further away from the Jewish Sabbath with its Puri- 
tan modifications we have achieved a compromise 
between that rigidly observed rest day and the Con- 
tinental SabbatL The latter does not bid fair to gain 
a strong place in the siffections of the people at leu'ge. 
No infusion of foreign blood, no admiration of foreign 
customs by the smart sets in big cities, is likely to 
have a lasting effect upon the great mass of the 
people who were nurtured in the traditions held by 
the founders of the republic. 

Yet one extreme has happily modified the other. 
Few are the Sabbatarians even who do not appre- 
ciate the fact that Sunday should mean a change of 
thought and a relaxation to those who work hard 
all the week. Moreover, there are busy men and 
women who are too much driven on week-days by 

"^ — S i 



tb 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



inexorable business to find any time for social rec- 
reation. These do not yeam for Sunday night 
theatres and concerts or large and fashionable assem- 
blages in the afternoon and evening of that day. 
They would revolt against this almost as vigorously 
as one of the Pilgrim Fathers himself vrould have 
done. 

But when it is a question of a pleasant home- 
like little gathering on Sunday evening, where from 
four to a dozen pleasant people gather at the house 
of one of them to eat ctnd chat ^together, he con- 
aders it another matter, and justly. This is no gay 
affctir, which smacks of Sabbath-breaking, but a rest- 
ful reunion where those who have striven mightily all 
the week may eat and drink as friends, and gather 
courage and stimulus to help them through the hard 
work of the week that lies before them. 

There is a tremendous help to work in such 
gatherings of congenial souls. Very long ago it was 
said that a& iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth 
the countenance of his friend. And Lowell — a 
much later but still worthy authority ! — remarked that 
books were excellent dry fodder, you could sustain 
life on them, but only the true living pasturage is men, 
— or words to that effect Never vras there a brain 
36 



4^N 





>^-sji»tiuita.tr*'<s*inM-. ^ 



&^ vs+i. 






^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

worker of a social turn who did not appreciate the 
force of both remarks. The meeting of persons who 
are interested in the same things or who, if not 
similar in tastes, cuce yet one in aspiration and de- 
sire for the real things of life, is one of the most 
potent tonics to renewed and better effort. 

A certain absence of ceremony marks the Sun- 
day evening social gathering of the kind I have in 
mind. The men feel under no obligation to don 
evening clothes, the women wear pretty house gowns 
with no attempt at showy dressing. Form and cere- I | 
mony are at a discoimt, and the atmosphere b — or | i 
should be — that of a pleasant family gathering. 

Care must be exercised in choosing the guests for 
such a fimction. This is not the time to bring a 
number of strangers together. One or two may be 
admitted to the circle, but the majority should be on 
such terms with one another that the party shall 
really spell rest and not the strain mseparable from 
memy supper-parties. 

The supper itself should not be elaborate, and 
may be served in the fashion that seems most con- 
venienL I have been to meoiy of these affairs and 
the most unconventional have always been the most 
ddightfuL One house I recall where the inevitable 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

Sunday night supper was a Welsh rabbit, cold meat, 
a salad, and beei. The table was large enough to 
accommodate a good memy, and one was never sure 
how many were coming. If the number exceeded 
the table space, small tables were unloaded of books 
and bric-a-brac and pressed into service. Every one 
wedted on himself or on any one else that needed 
looking cifter. The cold fowl was carved by the master 
of the house. The chafing-dish was presided over by 
the mistress. The salad, the bread and butter, were 
passed from one to another, the beer bottles were 
usually in charge of some familiar member of the 
party who assumed the task. There were no sweets 
beyond a dish or two of bonbons. Every one en- 
joyed the affair, and while the party was not noisy 
or hilarious, there was good talk and plenty of it. 
For simple enjoyment it far exceeded other parties for 
Sunday night suppers where there were hot entrees 
and cold removes and an elaborate salad and a por- 
tentous sweet, with one or two or three wines poured 
by a solemn butler or a conect waitress. The latter 
kind of a party might as well have been a dinner, 
so stately and formal was it. The former could not 
have been anything but a Sunday night supper. 
But there are other dainties besides Welsh rabbit 

38 ^ 



ErD" 



rr SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

!i I which are possible (oi the Sunday night suppei that 

is a small social function. (I hasten to add this for 

i I the benefit of those with whose digestions cooked 

': 't 

cheese plays strange pisuiks.) The Sunday night sup- 
per as it is conducted for the family or the intimate 
guests may be practiceJly the same when the number 
of guests is increased. The supplies must be more 
generous, that is aH, 

Suppose, for instance, that the function is that de- 
lightful thing, " a hen party." Men undoubtedly add 
a charm to a gathering, — when one can have 
enough of them. But one solitary man alone in cm 
assemblage of women is an awesome sight, and mat- 
ters are not much improved when there are two or 
three men to a dozen women. When you can 
approximate an equal proportion of each, it is a differ- 
ent thing. But if this is impossible, it is better to 
rule them out entirely and to have women alone. 

For this party Welsh rabbit might not be so pop- 
ular eis it would be in a mixed assemblage. The 
women would rather have creeuned or panned oysters 
for their hot dish, and re-enforce this with a dish of 
cold meat, a good salad, and a sweet. They would 
also like hot coffee or chocolate, probably, better than 
beer. 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

Such a supper as this is not hard to achieve. 
The dining-table may be set as it would be for an 
evening party or a standing lunch, with piles of 
plates, napkins, silver, etc. The salad, the cold meat, 
the sandwiches or bread and butter, the cake, — if 
there ' is to be a cake, — may be on the table from 
the beginning of the meal. One intimate guest may 
be asked to pour the coffee or the chocolate. The 
hostess may preside over the chafing-dish. If there 
is a large number of guests, two chafing-dishes may 
be brought mto service, but this is hardly necessary. 
A waitress is a convenience for removing plates, etc., 
but the women will wait on themselves, so far as 
the serving is concerned. They will lake their plates 
where they please and "spill over" from the dining- 
room into the drawing-room or hall or library, or 
where they will. Small tables that can be moved 
from place to place will be a boon, but are not 
indispensable. 

The sweet for a woman's supper demands more at- 
tention than for a meal where men make up a good 
share of the company. Yet a cold sweet is so 
generally liked that there will be no trouble in find- 
ing one that can be prepared the day before. The 
salad dressing, too, may be mixed on Saturday, the 



^p=z::^,..-.:r:.=z::r:::.^^ 



^ 



} SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

meat cooked, and everything done except to cut the 
bread for the sandwiches and to prepare the hot 
drink and the cheifing-dish d2dnty. 

Overelaboration at such an affair as this is a 
temptation to which it is easy to yield. Yet just as 
soon as a woman multiplies the items of her repeist 
she ruins the effect of simpGcity which is the charm 
of so informal a gathering. It is nothing that the 
guests will go away remarking that that wets a fine 
supper 2aid that they had eaten more than was good 
for them. The hostess has dealt a blow at the simple 
Sunday night supper and has done her part toward 
establishing a standard that will make such enter- 
taining more difficult for herself and others in the 
future. 

I wish I could speak strongly enough on this to 
make a lasting impression. Between the strenuous 
and the simple life we are all heird put to it how to 
choose, although there is something in the national 
character that makes us incline toward the harder way. 
It is something we ought to live down, and the 
housekeepers of the land should do their part toward 
simplifying this business of informal entertetining. Be 
very sure that it is better taste and higher enjoyment 
to entertain simply a half-dozen times than to have 






SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



what is vulgarly termed a "blowout" once m two or 
three seasons. 

So the Sunday night supper menu should be 
studied over in order to achieve an attractive meal 
of few items but each of these admirable in its way. 
Have unusual salads or sweets or chafing-dish crea- 
tions, if you will. But don't have a number of 
these things at one time. If one dish is a trifle 
costly or elaborate, have the rest of the meal simple 
enough to establish a balsmce of consistency. For 
instance, the night that you have a plain green salad 
v\rith the cold meat, prepare sandwiches, or a loaf 
of hot bread or scones. But when there have been 
friceisseed oysters for a first course, give only bread and 
butter with the Waldorf or chicken salad that follows, 
and make your sweet of the simplest Offer wafers 
instead of the cake that might be suitable if the early 
part of the meal had been light 

HOT CHOCOLATE ♦ * 

Nearly every one has a recipe for chocolate or 
cocoa, but the following direction makes such ex- 
ceptionally delicious chocolate that I give it here. 

Mix together six tablespoonfuls of Baker's chocolate, 
grated, four tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and a i |, 



ggp-====^ ==^ 



cp 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch. Wet them to a 
paste with a little milk and put them over the fire 
m a double boiler with four cups of milk and two 
cups of hot water. Cook together for ten minutes 
after they begin to simmer, add two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla, and, if you use wine, as much sherry. Beat 
hard with a Dover egg-beater for two or three min- 
utes. When the chocolate is poured, put a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream in each cup and pass sugar 
with it, m case it may be needed. 









THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
HOT WEATHER 



■b\ 



^ 









priT ^ ••''■■•'' •'•'-''-^''''"•■'^'^^ ^ 



w ^ — ^ 






CHAPTER IV 

THE SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER FOR 
HOT WEATHER 

O TUDY to have the effect of your table for the 
'^^ Sunday night supper as cool as possible. Leave 
the top of the table bare — if you have a table 
with a possible top — Jind put on a pretty centre- 
piece, round or square, and doilies at the individual 
places. There will be no hot dishes to meir the 
polish of the board. 

Have flowers, of course — not those with heavy per- 
fumes that seem to make the day hotter, but loose meisses 
of feathery white mixed judiciously with color. Don't 
have the table cluttered with a lot of small dishes. 
A sense c^ space adds to the apparent coolness. 

There are some fortunate persons who own places 
where one can have supper on the lawn or on the 
veranda. The memory is clear to me of two such 
establishments. In one the Sunday night supper was 
served on the lawn whenever the weather permitted. 
A small table was carried out there, and spread 

fe ^ — - — Si 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



with a white cloth. On this were ananged the dif- 
ferent articles of food. There were salads or cold 
meats, and big plates of sandwiches, and piles of 
plates and napkins, knives and forks. There were 
also a huge pitcher of iced tea or coffee and a 
troop of glasses. 

The happy guests sat about on the lawn as they 
would. There were chairs for those who preferred 
them, and these might have small tables before them, 
on which to set the plate and gleiss. For the younger 
ones who favored less conventional postures there were 
rugs, on which they could dispose themselves, aad 
cushions to soften the inequalities of the ground. 
The younger people wailed on the elders, and every- 
thing was uncommonly jolly emd free and easy. I 
don't mean that the occeision was one of un-Sun- 
day-like hilarity, but it was a delightful time of relaxa- 
tion and simple enjo}rment. When the solids were 
finished, the self-constituted waiters filed back to the 
house, bearing the soiled plates, and brought out 
the sweets that were to conclude the meal. The 
services of a waitress were not required, and the 
repast was all the more agreeable for the total lack 
of ceremony. 

The other home where they have al fresco teas 

"8 <S 




^ 



w 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

is on the borders of a cheurming lake in a part of 
the country where mosquitoes are practically unknown. 
Here the supper-table on seven nights a week is 
spread on the broad veranda — and there are many 
other meals teiken there as well. The table is pushed 
into one comer of the spacious porch when not m 
use, emd the meals eaten in the fresh air have a 
zest that they would lack if served within four 
walls. 

In the sections of the country where mosquitoes 
abound this might not be feetsible on an unenclosed 
porch. But more emd more it is becoming customeury 
to have at least a section of the veranda enclosed in 
vme netting cts a protection against flies as well as 
against mosquitoes. Thus defended there is no reason 
why the Sunday night supper should not be eaten in 
the open air, or at least m as much of it as finds its 
way through the netting. It may not be easy to 
have here the meals that must be served hot. They 
would chill, perhaps, on their passage from the 
kitchen, and the task of bringing hot plates and the 
Kke adds to the labors of the waitress. But when 
there is a cold meal, this objection is lessened, for the 
added bother of carrying the food to the veranda is 
usually gladly assumed by the younger members of 



iji! 



mt 



mi 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



the household for the sake of the novelty and enjoy- 
ment of the supper out-of-doors. 

It is not enough to have the viands served at the 
Sunday night supper merely cold. The appetite 
usually needs coaxing in hot weather, and this is not 
done when the remains of the midday dinner are 
served — and not even cold, but lukewarm! Put the 
Sunday dinner remains away for a future occcision, etnd 
serve something difierent for supper. Have seJad, of 
course. That is a staple in hot weather, and there is 
enough veuiety possible to do away with any danger 
of sameness. Have cold meat, if you wish it, but let 
it be sliced thin, prettily garnished, and accompanied 
vWth a relish which makes it appetizing. If you can 
put aspic with it, so much the better, or serve it in 
aspic if you can. Thus tricked out it is quite a 
different thing from plain cold meat as we know it 
on the ordinary every-day table. 

Make rather a feature of bread and butter or of 
sandwiches for the Sunday evening supper. They 
need not be expensive or difficult. Cut the bread 
thin — either white bread or brown, or both — having 
first buttered it on the loaf. If you wish to have a 
sandwich-filling, spread this on before cutting the 
bread. There are so meuiy of these simple fillings! 
50 



Erl H- ======== 



£0- 




I 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



Chopped tomatoes — the solid part — or chopped cu- 
cumber stirred into mayomiaise. (These must not be 
made until just before serving, or thejr will become 
soggy.) Minced lobster or shrimp or sardines stirred 
into mayonnaise. Cream-cheese or pot-cheese softened 
to a paste with cream and spread on the bread. 
The mixture may be used plain — salted to taste, 
of course — or have minced nuts stirred into it, or 
chives or celery or parsley or cress. Or, after the 
cheese has been spread on the bread, a lettuce-leaf 
dipped in French dressing may be Icud between the 
two thicknesses of bread and cheese. Or jam may 
be worked into the cheese if a sweet sandwich is 
wished. Jelly sandwiches are good, too; or if one 
objects to sweets, mingle minced pickles with the 
cheese. Egg sandwiches are good where the hard- 
boiled egg is put through a vegetable-press, given 
cohesiveness by the addition of a little cream or 
melted butter, seasoned to taste, and then spread on 
the bread. Or if any or all of these seem too 
troublesome, plain bread (cut thin) and butter is sure 
to be satisfactory to nearly every one. 

Of sweets there is little need of speaking. In 
summer, when fruits are plentiful, the dessert suggests 
itself. Fresh berries, fresh peaches (sliced or whole). 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS ' 

fresh pears (sliced) with cream, melons, grapes — all 
these are delicious. And if much fruit has made 
one crave for novelties in its preparation, it is easy 
to compass pleeising dishes with fruit for the foun- 
dation and a superstructure or accompaniment of 
whipped cream or meringue or custard or jelly. 
Cake, too, will be acceptable with the fruit, 
but it need not be heavy and rich, as one might 
perhaps vnsh it in winter. Something simpler and 
lighter will answer for the Sunday night supper in 
summer. 

For drink, cold tea or coffee or chocolate, with 
plenty of ice, will always please. Lemonade, too, is _ 
of unfailing popularity among young people. If more 
variety is craved, there are many delicious fruit 
punches and similar drinks that may be made. Most 
of them have a good lemonade for a foundation, and 
there are tempting compounds in which ginger ale 
holds a place. These will be foimd to be cooling, as 
no drink can be that contains alcohol in any form. 



SPICED BEEF 1» ♦ 

Place over the fire in enough cold water to cover 
it, two pounds of lean beef from the round, cut into 
rather small pieces, as for stewing, and a cracked 



W ~^ ^— ^^.^— ^^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



knuckle of veal. Put with them a bunch of soup 
vegetables and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Bring 
slowly to a boil, and simmer gently until the meat is 
tender enough to pierce with a fork. This will re- 
quire from two and one-half to three hours' cooking. 
Keep the pot closely covered. 

Let the meat get cold in the liquor, remove any 
fat that rises to the top, then take out the meat, and 
shred it with a fork. Strain the liquor, ^nd return it 
to the fire with one-half teaspoonful each of ground all- 
spice, cloves, and mace, one saltspoonful each of mus- 
tard, paprika, aild celery-Scilt, and one-half teaspoonful 
~ of common salt Bring to a boil, put in the meat 
again, and let it become well heated. Stir well, take 
it out, and turn into a plain oval or brick-shaped 
mold, first wetting this with cold water. Set it on 
the ice. When cold the spiced beef will be blended 
with the meat jelly and will timi out perfectly. It 
may be cut in slices either before or after it goes to 
the table. 

If a change is desired, the meat may be set to 
form in small individual molds. These may be served 
on lettuce-leaves and make a pretty dish. A tomato 
sauce or a mayonnaise dressing goes well with this 
dish. 







SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

COLD MEAT IN ASPIC ♦ ♦ 

Make a good aspic jelly by cooking together a 
knuckle of veal and one pound of beef, or a chicken 
carcass or any other cold meat of the kind you 
have, in cold water for two or three hours. Put 
I soup vegetables with them as you would for euiy 

soup, and cook slowly. There should be three 
quarts of water to three pounds of meat, and it 
should reduce to one quart of liquid. Let it become 
cold on the bones, pour it off, strciin it, return it to 
the fire, and when it comes to a boil throw in the 
white cmd the crushed shell of an egg. Boil up 
quickly, skim off the scum that rises, and then strain 
again. If the liquor lacks seasoning, add celery-salt, 
white pepper and lemon-juice or vinegar until it is 
palatable. 

With this on hand you have a foundation for a 
number of delicious dishes. Cold beef may be sliced 
thin, sprinkled with salt and pepper, and itnanged 
in layers alternately with the jeDy the liquor will 
form as soon as it is cold. Cold chicken is delicious 
prepared in this way. So is cold lamb or veal. The 
dish may be adorned and varied by putting with the 
meat slices of beet or other pickles, hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices or quarters, thin slivers of lemon, minced 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

celeiy and the like. Oi the meat may be sliced 
and the jelly cut into dice and arranged about the 
meat on a flat dish before it goes to table. Hard- 
boiled eggs are very good served in aspic, and 
will answer as a salad. If cold lamb is thus served 
it is well to pass mint sauce with it. 

When the weather is hot or humid it is advis- 
able to add one tablespoonful of soaked gelatine 
to the liquor just before it is cleared with the white 
and shell of the egg. This ensures its becoming firm 
enough to turn out welL The mold in which it 
and the meat are put to form should be wet with 
cold water before they go in. 

TOMATOES IN ASPIC » » 

I have spoken of hard-boiled eggs served in aspic 
as a salad. Another dish of the same sort may be 
achieved when tomatoes are ripe. Select firm toma- 
toes of raither small emd uniform size. Throw them 
in boiling water long enough to loosen the skins, peel 
them, and put them on the ice. Do this several 
hours before they are to be used, that they may 
become thoroughly chilled. Have the aspic jelly cold 
and at the stage where it is just beginning to form. 
Cut your tomatoes into thick slices, moisten a small 

iTJ-T A. ...^ , fe ll 



^ — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



mold with water, put in a little of the jelly, lay in a 
slice of the tomato, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, 
put in more jelly, then another slice of the tomato, 
emd so on. There should be only enough in each 
mold for an individual portion. A deep muffin-tin 
is excellent for a mold. When filled, set it on the 
ice. When ready to serve, turn out on a lettuce- 
leci, and serve with a French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Sliced beets may be served in the ssune way. 

GREEN PEASE IN ASPIC » ♦ 

Make the jelly as described above; season cooked 
green pease to taste with salt and pepper, stir them 
into the jelly, and turn into individual molds wet with 
cold water. Serve on lettuce-leaves. 

A very delicious macedoine salad may be made by 
cutting up cold beets, mincing celery and string-beans, 
and putting all in layers in the aspic, each vegetable 
by itself. This is an excellent way in which to use 
vegetable left-overs. 

A WORD ABOUT TOMATO SALADS » ♦ 

Tomatoes are a great stand-by for salad when 

ihey are in season. They may have the inside 

scooped out and be made delicious with almost any 



w 







SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

fifling. They may be stuffed with green pease, with 
string-beans, with celery, with cucumbers, with cold 
meat of any kmd, provided it is minced or cut into 
dice and well seasoned first. Cold carrots sliced are 
good in such filling. So are raw oysters, or cooked 
shrimps, or sardines, or cold fish of nearly every kind. 
Almost anything will go well with tomatoes. If you 
wish to vary the salad still more, make baskets out 
of the tomatoes, leaving a piece of the top as a 
handle. It is a little more trouble to do this than 
to cut the top of the tomato off in a single slice, 
but it makes a prettier dish of the salad. It may 
be served with a French dressing, or with a may- 
oimaise, or vnth any one of the good boiled dressings 
which make such excellent substitutes for mayonnaise. 



57 J^ 



m======fm 



w 






I '.' 



^ 



! 



UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND 
SWEETS 






_.^jr" i'a 



Q. 









^ 



d 






CHAPTER V 

UNUSUAL SAVORIES AND SWEETS 

' I 'HE housekeeper's invention is seriously taxed 
*■ every Saturday with the planning for two days' 
meals. It is not strange that her powers fail her 
when she seeks a novelty for the third meal on 
Sunday. She will be — or should be — devoutly 
grateful if she can find any unfamilicu; and accept- 
able suggestions among the following recipes. That 
certain of them can be prepared in the chafing-dish 
may give them added merit in her eyes. 

SAVORIES 

CLAMS SCALLOPED IN SHELLS * !• 

Cook together a tablespopnful each of butter and 
flour until they bubble. Pour upon them a cupful 
of liquid, half milk and half clam juice. Add a tiny 
pinch of soda to the milk. Stir until you have a 
thick, smooth sauce, and add then a pint of clams, 
chopped. Put in a beaten egg, adding it drop by 
drop, emd, when eJl is in, season to taste with salt 
61 



'^ 




^ — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



and cayenne. Have large clam shells washed clean 
cind buttered on the inside, and put the clam mixture 
into these. All this may be done on Saturday. On 
Sunday set the shells in a pan in the oven, turn an- 
other pan over them and let them cook ten minutes, 
uncover and brown lightly. Pass sliced lemon with 
them. 

CREAMED PANNED OYSTERS ♦ ♦ 

Cut rounds of buttered toast to fit the bottom of 
your ramequins or nappies, or if you have not these 
in the right shape, of tin patty-pans. On the toast 
lay oysters, allowing three or four to each pan. Put 
a bit of butter and a dust of pepper and salt on 
the top of each one. Set in a quick oven for ten 
minutes or until the edges of the oysters crimp. 
Have ready hot cresun, having allowed a couple of 
teaspoonfuk to each pan of the oysters, and put this 
with them just before you send to the table. 

It will take but a few moments to prepare this 
dish, but if the housekeeper desires she can make the 
toast and arrange the oysters in the pans on Saturday 
or on Sunday morning, putting the pans on the ice 
or in a cold place until time to set them in the 
oven. 







SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

DEVILLED PANNED CLAMS ♦ ♦ 

Prepare as for panned oysters, using clams in 
place of these. When they are beJced pour over them 
a " devilled " mixture, made by stirring together a salt- 
spoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and ten 
drops of Tabasco. Half a teaspoonful of this, poured 
into the liquor and melted butter that should sur- 
roimd the clams in each pan, will be enough to 
give the hot touch that makes the name appro- 
priate. 

Devilled panned oysters may oe prepared in the 
same fashion. 

SAVORY LOBSTER ♦ 

Cut a pint of lobster meat into small pieces. Do 
not chop it Make it hot with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a teaspoonful of seJt, a saltspoonful of dry mus- 
tard, cmd three or four dashes of cayenne pepper or 
paprica. Let all get smoking hot together and add 
the juice of a lemon and a wineglassful of sheny. 
The latter may be omitted by those who object to 
the use of wine. This dish may be prepared in a 
chafing-dish or in a saucepan. 

&P\ - :i^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

PANNED KIDNEYS ♦ ♦ 

Fry thin sKces of bacon in a firying-pan, or in a 
blazer,, until crisp, take them out and put into the 
pan lambs* "^Is^eys, which have been spKt and 



Tolled in flour. Cools; for five minutes, add a couple 
of tablespoonfuls of ho^ water, stew five minutes 
longer, season with pepper, a tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato or mush- 
room ketchup. 



PILLAU OF RICE AND PEPPERS ♦ ♦ 

Cut green peppers in half, lengthwise, removing 
the seeds. Throw the peppers into boiling water and 
leave them there for five minutes. Take them out 
and drain. Have ready to fill them boiled rice which 
has had stirred into each cupful of it a tablespoonful 
of melted butter and two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese with salt to taste. Fill each pepper shell with 
this, mounding it up on top. Place the peppers thus 
filled in a pan. This can be done on Saturday. 
Late Sunday afternoon set the pan, covered, in a hot 
oven for ten minutes, imcover and brown lightly. 
This makes a delicious accompaniment to cold meat 




64 






w ^=-^ 



r 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



(I 



MEAT AND GREEN PEPPER 
SCALLOP » ♦ 

Mince any cold meat you have and season it well. 
Ham is veiy nice for this dish, and so is poulby of 
any sort, but other cold meats will do. G)Id veal 
to which has been added a small amount of ham 
is excellent. Butter a pudding-dish and put a layer 
of the meat into the bottom. Over this place a 
layer of green peppers which have had the seeds 
removed and have been cut into small pieces. Sprinkle 
fine crumbs thickly over this, pour in enough well- 
seasoned stock to mobten it thoroughly, and then add 
another series of the layers of meat, peppers, and 
crumbs. Continue with this until the dish is filled, 
making crumbs of the top stratum. Strew bits of 
butter over aU, cover, and bake b a good oven 
for ten minutes; then uncover, and bake ten minutes 
longer, or until well browned. All of the preparation 
of this dish except the baking can be done on Sat- 
urday, 

TOMATO AND EGG SCALLOP ♦ ♦ 

Chop up the contents of a can of tomatoes or an 
equal quantity of fresh tomatoes, stewed. Make sure 
that there are no hard lumps left in, put with the to- 



w = ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

mato a small onion, minced, and let it cook slowly for 
half an hour. Season with salt and pepper. Boil 
four or five eggs hard, throw them in cold water to 
loosen the shells, peel them and cut each egg into 
eighths. Butter a bake dish, fill it about a quarter 
full of the tomato, and on this lay one-third of the 
eggs. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and put in 
more tomato and egg. Have tomato for the finishing 
layer, strew with crumbs and bits of butter. Bake, 
covered, fifteen minutes, — just long enough to make 
the contents of the dish thoroughly hot, uncover and 
brown. This dish, also, except the final baking, can 
be prepared and cooked the day before it is to be 
eaten. 

SAVORY RICE AND TOMATO ♦ ♦ 

Fry until crisp a quarter-pound of chopped salt 
porL Put mto the pan vnth it a medium-sized 
onion, minced fine, and brown. Add this to three 
cupfub of boiled rice ; mix in two green peppers, 
seeded and chopped, and a cupful of tomato sauce. 
Season all to taste with salt and pepper, turn into a 
buttered bake-dish, sprinkle with fine crumbs and 
small pieces of butter, and brown. Everything but 
the baking may be done on Saturday. 



ca^ 



4! 



11 





SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

OYSTER OMELET ♦ ♦ 

Beat six eggs light, yolks and whites separately, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of milk to the yolks. Stir 
the yolks and whites lightly together, turn into a hot 
fiying-pan, and cook until set. Have ready a rich 
white sauce to which a beaten egg has been added 
etnd in which a dozen oysters have been cooked until 
the edges curl. Lay the omelet on a hot platter, 
pour the oysters over it, and (old upon itself. Serve 
immediately. Some persons think this is improved by 
sprinkling with grated cheese just before sending to 
the table. 

SWEETS 

STUFFED PINEAPPLE ♦ ♦ 

Select a large, fine pineapple and cut oS the top 
smoothly. Scoop out the inside, taking care not to 
break the sides of the pineapple, cut the pulp into 
dice and put vrith it half as much orange, also cut 
small, as much banana as you have orange, and a 
dozen Maraschino cherries, each halved. A few 
teaspoonfuls of the Maraschino liquor from the cher- 
ries may be added to the mixture. Return all to 
the pineapple shell, set this in a very cold place, and 
67 



m 



3/ kp 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

leave it there for one hour before serving. If pos- 
sible, it is weD to put the pineapple thus filled into 
a pail and pack this in ice and salt for an hour. 
The contents are thus chilled thoroughly. Place the 
top, with its tuft of leaves upon it, on the stuffed 
pineapple when it is sent to the table. 

ITAUAN CHESTNUT PUDDING ♦ ♦ 

Select large Spanish or Italian chestnuts for this, 
put them over the fire in boiling water, and cook for 
ten minutes. Remove them from the stove, euid the 
inner skins will come off easily with the outer shells. 
Put the peeled chestnuts into boiling water again and 
boil until tender. By this method they are kept white. 
When tender put them through a vegetable press or 
potato ricer, mix a little white sugar with them 
and, if you use vnne, moisten them with a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Mound them in a dish and 
heap whipped cream upon them. 



FRUIT SYLLABUB » ♦ 

Line a glass dish with thin slices of rather dry 

sponge cake. Over this pour enough fruit juice to 

soften the cake. If it is made in summer you 

may use the juice of ripe berries or peaches, crushing 

68 



EFD- 



p^ " — ^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



r 



^ 



them to extract the juice ; if in winter, the juice 
of oranges may be used, or syrup from preserved 
fruit. Rub six lumps of sugar on the rind of two 
large oranges until the sugar is yellow with the oil 
from the orange skin. Then crush the sugar and 
add it to a pint of rich cream. Squeeze the juice 
of the oranges on two tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar, and add this, too, to the cream. Whip it all 
stiff, and heap on the cake. The top of the cream 
may be ornamented with preserved or fresh berries. 

ORANGE "JELLY * * 

Soak half a box of gelatine for half an hour in 
enough cold water to cover it, add to it a cupful of 
granulated sugar, pour upon it three cups of boiling 
water, and stir xmtil entirely dissolved. While the 
gelatine is soaking, grate the peel of two oranges and 
squeeze the juice of three upon the grated peel. 
Let them stand together for half an hour, then strain 
mto the jelly. Turn into a large mold, or into small 
molds, and put into a cold place to form. It is a 
prettier dish if halved orange skins are used for 
molds. The jelly is then served in the skins and 
whipped cream may be heaped upon each half just 
before sending to the table. 
69 







=^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CRANBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM ♦ ♦ 

Soak a quarter-box of gelatine in a half-cup of 
cold water. Heat two cups of milk in a double 
boiler, beat the yolks of two eggs with a pinch of 
salt and hcJf a cup of sugar, pour the hot milk upon 
them and return to the double boiler. Stir until the 
custard begins to thicken and then add gelatine. 
When this is dissolved take the custard from the fire 
and strain it. Let it become cold and then put with 
it a cupful of sweetened aanberry juice, made by 
cooking the cranberries as you would for jelly, squeez- 
ing the juice and adding sugar, and half a pint of 
cream beaten stiff with the whites of two eggs. 
Turn all into a mold, set on the ice and leave 
until cold. Serve with sweet cream. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA 1» * 

Soak one cupful of pearl tapioca in two cupfuls of 
cold water until the water is all absorbed. Put over 
the fire together with the juice from a pint of canned 
or preserved raspberries and cook for half an hour. 
Add the berries to the tapioca and syrup, turn the 
mixture into a mold, and put on ice, or in a cold 
place, to form. Serve with whipped cream. 






70 



m 



<a 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

CAKE CUSTARD ♦ ♦ 

Make a sweet, boiled custard, — about three cup- 
fuls. While this is hot stii into it half a dozen stale 
sponge cakes broken up very small, and two table- 
spoonfuls of peach jelly or marmalade. Beat hard, 
and when cool, set on the ice to get very cokL 
When ready to serve, pour into glasses, heap on top 
of each a tablespoonful of whipped cream, and m 
the centre of the cream put a very little peach 
jelly. 



[&D\: 



71 



ffi5/ 






i i 



,,5 U,J ^ 



W ""^ 



COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER 



>. 



ll 
fi I 



'^ 









CHAPTER VI 

COLD DISHES FOR THE SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER 



T 



HAT is an old story of the English restaurant 
proprietor who inquired carefully as to the 
ritualistic tendencies of the clergymen for whom he 
was to provide a dinner. He explamed his interest 
thus: "If they eue 'igh Church, they wants more 
wine, if Broad Church, more wittles." 

Some such distinction as this the hostess must bear 
in mind when plamiing the cold dishes for her Sun- 
day night supper. The tsistes of her family will 
probably be less exacting than those of the formal 
guest, — or, at least, she prefers to think so. It 
saves her trouble. Thus much may be said for her, 
to remove from her the stigma of an unwillingness to 
take as much pains for her own as for strangers, that 
she knows what the members of her household like 
and therefore does -not have to expend so much cel- 
lular tissue m devising novelties for them as she 
would for guests. 

S^ ^ z^lhi 




w 

ir 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



Moreover, the housekeeper joyously refuses to as- 
sume responsibility for the digestions of the visitors. 
They are the keepers of theii own gastronomic con- 
sciences. Her part is to put temptation in their way, 
while to them it falls to resist the lure, or to yield to 
it graciously. The consequences of either course are 
in their own chsurge. 

With the home people it is another matter. 
When the housekeeper places before them food that 
is likely to disagree with them, she knows that upon 
her will devolve the care of the sick and suffering. 
This knowledge natureJly hampers her inclination to 
plan for her Sunday night supper as though there 
were no hereafter. 

So, when she has only her family to feed, the 
housekeeper gives them beef loaf, — or even veal 
loaf, if she be of a deuring nature, — cold meat in 
iispic, jellied chicken, jellied tongue, stuffed ham, 
simple salads, innocuous sweets. It is another matter 
when she has guests to consider. For them she pre- 
pares chaudfroids of more or less elaborateness, 
spends her ingenuity on salads, and lets her feuicy go 
on sweets. The results are pleasing if possibly per- 
nicious. Yet no one ■wAi a fair digestion and a 
particle of "sporting blood" need fear such dishes as 
76 



' ■"■W Mii —H i Ll W 




3x 

^ SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

those for which the lecipes follow. And the timorous 
or dyspeptic would better eat at home and take no 
chcuices at an alien supper boeird. 

The cold dishes for the Sunday night supper 
may be inexpensive or costly as suits the disposition 
or the purse of the housekeeper. If she has a nice 
taste in truffles or pate de foie gras aad out-of-season 
game she may have the supposedly simple meal the 
highest priced of the week. On the other hand, 
with skill in flavoring euid seasoning and aptitude for 
dainty cookery she can procure a result that would 
be cis satisfactory as the other to all but the treuned 
gourmet, at a moderate outlay. 

One word more. G)ld dishes must be cold! 
This does not mean lukewarm or partially cold, but 
thoroughly chilled. There is nothing more de- 
appetizing theui to have dishes meant to be cold 
merely chilly, except to have dishes that should be 
hot only tepid. Serve your cold dishes from cold 
platters or bowls on to cold plates. Garnish the food 
attracdvely, and remember that its appeareuice has 
almost as much importance as its tsiste in rendering it 
tempting to the palate. 

A pleasing touch is given to a supper that may be 
otherwise plain by prefacing the meal with an appetizer 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

of some sort. One of the most attractive of these is 
a clam cocktail. Make this by mixing together a 
tablespoonful each of vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, 
cmd grated horseradish, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice, hcJf a teeispoonful each of salt and Tabasco 
sauce, cmd two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. Make 
very cold and put into this sauce two dozen small 
clams. Serve in glasses. Or you may arrange the 
clams on ice and put the sauce in a cup made of a 
halved green pepper, and set this m the centre of the 
plate on which the clams are served. 

CLAM CANAPES ♦ • 

Spread brown bread with a mayonnaise dressing to 
which has been added a little Worcestershire sauce, 
and put on the bread a mixture of a dozen clams, cut 
in small pieces and mixed with a half-teaspoonful of 
capers, two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, salt and 
pepper to laste. 

CAVIAR CANAPES ♦ ♦ 

Cut crescents or rectangles of white or brown 
bread, and butter them lightly. Spread thinly with 
Russian caviar, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice 



W ™v^ 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

on the caviar, gamish the dish with watercress or 
sliced tomatoes. 

VEAL LOAF ♦ » 

Boil one pound of lean veal in enough water to 
cover it. When done set it to one side to cool while 
you boil down the liquor in which it was cooked to 
about half a cupful. Add to this a saltspoonful of 
celery salt, the grated peel of a lemon and half the 
juice, common salt and white pepper to taste. Chop 
the veeJ fine with a tablespoonful of lean heun. Put 
the gravy with the meat suid turn all into a round 
mould. Lay a plate on the surface of the meat, 
cover with a heavy weight, and leave until the next 
day. By that time it will be firm emd may be turned 
out on a flat dish and cut into slices. Gamish with 
parsley and slices of lemon or with sliced tomatoes. 

LIVER LOAF ♦ » 

Boil a lamb's liver until tender m water to which 
a sliced onion and a stalk of celery have been 
added. When cold, wipe the liver dry and put it 
through a meat chopper. It should be almost a 
powder when ready to season. Rub it to a paste 
with half a teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoonful 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

of Worcestershire sauce, one of mushroom catsup and 
three of melted hutter. Butter a rather small mould 
with straight sides and press the liver mixture down 
into it. This loaf is made more elegant by the addi- 
tion of a few truffles arranged here and there in the 
pate. Leave it on the ice until just before serving. 
Tum out on a flat plate, garnish attractively, and cut 
in thin slices in serving. This is a tolerable imitation 
of pate de foie gras. 



QUICK ASPIC JELLY ♦ ♦ 

Purchase a quart can of good tinned consomme. 
There are two or three' excellent makes on the 
market. If not sufficiently seasoned, put it over the 
lire with a sliced onion, a stalk of celery, and a bay 
leaf, and simmer for half an hour. Season it with 
a tablespoonful of turagon vinegar or, if you do not 
like the tarragon flavor, with as much lemon juice. 
Soak half a box of gelatine in enough warm water 
to cover it, for half an hour, heat the consomme to 
boiling, add the gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain, 
and set aside to cool. It may be cut into dice 
as a garnish, or meat or vegetables may be jellied 
in it 

If there is time to make the consomme by boiling 

80 /^ 




^m 



,r 



± 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

beef, it is well to add to this a well-cracked knucide 
of veal. When the stock has been made and 
cleared, proceed as with the quick aspic. 

DUCK OR CHICKEN IN JELLY * ¥ 

Cut cold roast duck or chicken into neat pieces. 
Wet the bottom of a mould with cold water, pour 
in a little of the aspic, which should already have 
begim to form, arrange sliced hard boiled eggs and 
dice of beet root or capers about the mould. Pour 
in a little of the jelly, lay in the meat, put in more 
jelly, and so on until the mould is full. The final 
layer should be of jelly. Set the mould on the ice 
for several hours before the contents are to be used. 
Garnish attractively when turned out. An excellent 
idea is to arrange the jelly in individual moulds and 
serve one to each guest, on a lettuce leaf. , 



CHICKEN GALANTINE » * 

Select a good ^ed fowl, put it over the fire in 
cold water with a bunch of soup herbs. Bring gradu- 
eJIy to a boil and cook slowly until the meat is 
tender. Take it from the fire and let it get cold in 
the liquor. Cut the meat from the bones, rejecting 
skin and gristle, and slice the meat neatly. Boil the 
81 



^_ 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

liquor down to one quart, strain it and return it to 
the (ire with the white and cracked shell of an egg. 
Boil up once, remove the scum, add a heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine which has been soaked in a little 
Wctrm water, remove from the fire and strain. Season 
vsrith salt to taste, a saltspoonful of celery salt and the 
same of paprica, a teaspoonful each .of lemon juice 
and of minced parsley. Wet a mould with plain 
sides, pour in a little of the jelly, ctrramge a layer of 
the meat and then a little more jelly. Put next a 
layer of thin slices of cold boiled Ivam or tongue, 
more jelly and then the chicken again. In the 
crevices between the meat place bicuiched almonds 
cut in strips, a few pistache nuts and truffles, if you 
wish them, stoned olives sliced, and a few capers. 
Make this the day before it is to be eaten and keep 
on the ice until it is time to turn it out. 

TONGUE MOUSSE * » 

Chop very fine two cupfuls of cold boiled tongue. 
Reject any portions that seem tough. Season with 
a little French musteird cmd paprica. Mix with a gill 
of liquid aspic jelly made according to either of the 
directions given, turn into a buttered mould, and place 
on the ice for several hours before it is to be used. 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CHICKEN MOUSSE ♦ » 

This may be made like the tongue mousse, except 
that the sesisoning should differ. Use celery salt 
cuid a little onion juice in place of the mustard. It 
will be enriched and improved if a tablespoonful of 
pate de foie gras is worked in with the chicken. 
Truffles may ako be used if desired. At the last add 
a cup of whipped cream to which has been put a 
teaspoonful of gelatine that hais been dissolved in 
Wcirm water and then allowed to cool, and a table- 
spoonful of sherry. Beat all well together, turn into a 
mould wet with cold water, and leave for several 
hours before serving. 

LOBSTER SALAD IN THE SHELL ♦ ♦ 

Prepare a lobster salad by cutting the fresh lobster 
into neat dice. To two cupfuls of this add a tea- 
spoonfiJ of Russian caviare. Mingle all with a good 
mayoimaise dressing to which has been added a half- 
pint of whipped cream just before it is put with the 
salad. 

To serve this in an unusual aad attractive maimer, 
scrape dean the back shells of the lobster emd fill 
these with the salad. Give one to each person, gar- 
nishing with cress and olives. This is a variety from 



^ •' 4 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

the stctndard method of serving lobster salad sad will 
be welcome as a novelty. 

TOMATOES WITH WHIPPED CREAM ♦ ♦ 

This is another novelty and deserves to be better 
knovra. Select letrge, firm tomatoes, throw them in 
hot water for a few moments to loosen the skins, 
remove these and put the tomatoes at once on the 
ice. Let them become thoroughly chilled. When 
ready to serve, cut each tomato in half crosswise, 
sprinkle v^rith ScJt and paprica emd heap on each half 
a tablespoonful of whipped cream. Elat as a salad 
or an entree or as aa accompaniment to cold meat. 

FROZEN PEACHES WITH ICE-CREAM ♦ * 

Letrge firm peaches should be chosen for this. 
Peel carefully and cut each in half. Pack in an 
ice cave or freezer for two or three hours, until well 
frappe. Have ready rounds of sponge or angel cake. 
Lay one of the peach-heJves on each of these, sur- 
round the cake with ice-cream or whipped cream, 
and put a large spoonful of ice-cream in the place 
left vacant by the peach stone. 



-^T ^ ^ ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

FIG AND NUT JELLY » ♦ 

Wash a cupful of pulled figs in cold water. Put 
them over the fire in two cups of cold water 
and stew until tender. Take them from the liquor, 
put to it a half-cupful of sugar and boil until the 
syrup thickens. Chop the figs into small pieces and 
add to them a couple of dozen almonds, blanched 
and chopped. Have ready half a box of gelatine 
which has been soaked for half an hour in a cupful 
of warm water. Dissolve it in a cupful of boiling 
water, add to it the fig liquor — there should be at 
least three gills of this, — and a gill of sherry. Strain 
dirough a fine vsore sieve and turn into the gleiss or 
silver dish from which you mean to serve it. When 
it is partially formed, — enough to keep the figs and 
nuts from sinking to the bottom, — stir these in. Serve 
I ice cold with whipped cream. 






STEWED FIGS WITH CREAM ♦ ♦ 



Prepare the figs eis in the preceding recipe by 
washing and stewing. Cook down the syrup until 
thick. Pour it over the figs and set the dish away 
in the ice. Just before serving heap whipped cream on 
the figs. 

This is a simple and delicious dessert 

^\ " /^ 







SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

r 

MARSHMALLOWS AND MARASCHINO ♦ * 

Cut marshmallows in half and arrange them in a 
glass or silver bowl with half as memy Meu°etschino 
cherries as there are marshmallows. Shell and blanch 
a half-cupful of English walnuts and chop them fine. 
Whip light half a pint of cream, beating into it three 
or four tablespoonfuls of Maraschino liquor from the 
cherries. If a really strong flavor of the Mareischino 
is desired it is better to use the pure liquor. In that 
case half as much of this as of the syrup will be 
i sufficient. Into the cream thus whipped and flavored 

I? 

I stir the chopped nuts and heap on top of the marsh- 

I I mallows and cherries. Garnish the whipped cream 
with more of the cherries. Do not make this dish 
too long before it is to be used or the marshmallows 
will become inconveniently sticky. 






^ ' ===m 



CHAPTER VII 
CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS 

THE chafing-dish began as a fashion and developed 
into a fad. Thence it hais quietly grown to be 
a friend. No one goes wild now over the possi- 
bilities of the chafing-dish, eind every one, man, woman, 
and child, is not taking lessons in its use. But there 
are few homes where you do not find it, and 
nowhere is it more serviceable and welcome than at 
the Sunday ni^t supper. 

"All may have the flower now, for all have got 
the seed." There are few so ignorant that they 
cannot compound a Welsh rabbit or accomplish 
lobster Newburg or achieve a Scotch woodcock. 
The merits of these may waver, but the dish can at 
least be eaten, — and that is much. Most of us 
remember some of the earlier chafing-dish combina- 
tions which no society breeding, no Christian unselfish- 
ness, could have aided us to swallow. 

Now, however, when the majority of amateur 

r=HV > — tf!+n 



ri'-Tfir 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

cooks have progressed beyond the scrambled-egg 
stage, those who have an ambitious bent are on the 
lookout for new exploits in the chafing-dish line. 
Hiey turn scornfully from the old standbys and seek 
fresh and astonishing creations. It is for the benefit of 
these searchers after novelty that the following recipes 
have been brought together. Some of them may be 



ii f' 



I. I 

i I 



^ i merely old friends with new faces, or new names, — | i 

which amounts to pretty nearly the same thing. But k [| 

until some one carries out the desire of the harassed f i 

i '* 
young housekeeper who wished that there would be 

invented a new animal, we must be content with re- 
combinations and with the freshness that comes with i 
new seasonings, new mixtures, and new titles. n t 
The daring chafing-dish cook is the one who i | 
achieves success. There are few things that cannot 
be done in a chafibg-dish, if one knows how. The 
greatest aid one can have to happy results is found 
in a bain-marie, either the regulation article that goes 
by that name or one that is improvised by the aid of 
a vessel of water set over the alcohol lamp or on a 
gas plate, so that in it or over it may be kept warm 
the first items of what might be called the two-part 
dishes. A length of gas-tubing, a cheap gas plate or 
gas stove on a side table will enable one to improvise, 
90 

f 



li; 



'(tEJ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

vvith the aid of a big dripping-pan and two or three 
saucepiins, as satisfactory a bain-marie as the high- 
i priced French utensil of that name. 

Oysters, one of the great reliances of the chafing- 

.' ^ 

J » dish cook in winter, eire less popular in summer. 

-11 I 

Yet even at that season one may yield to a fond- 
ness for oysters and serve them on a chilly Sunday 
night, with bacon, m the dish variously known, — 
according to the taste or habit of mind of the cook, 
— as "little pigs in blankets," "angels on horseback," 
or "devils on horseback." With any name the 
method of preparation is virtually the same and the 
dish is almost always welcome. In summer cleuns are 
in their glory and crabs and lobsters are in season. It 

^ J B the time when mushrooms grow out-of-doors, eggs 

are at their lowest ebb of price, and fruits and vege- 
tables may be experimented with at almost no 
expense. 

Moreover, the chafing-dish is especially valuable in 
summer becauses it enables one to tempt the appetite 
of her household or guests without the necessity of a 
kitchen fire. Even in our tropic climate there are 
times m midsummer when a hot savoury is welcome 
on the Sunday night supper-table. This the chafing- 
dish will provide and no other fire will be needed 

-'^.. . .91 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

beyond the alcohol blaze. Salads, sandwiches, iced 
diinks, fruit, or chilled sweets will supply the rest of 
the meal. 

EGGS A LA NEWBURG ♦ ♦ 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer and, 
when it is hot, stir into it a teaspoonful of cornstarch. 
As soon as these are blended pour in a cup of rich 
milk, — cream is better, if you can get it. When 
the sauce thickens turn in six hard-boiled eggs, cut 
into neat pieces, and let these cook until hot through. 
Stir in drop by drop two well beaten eggs, a half- 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper, £uid a 
tablespoonful of sherry. Serve on toeist or crackers. 

SPANISH EGGS ¥ ¥ 

Put together in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of 
butter, a gill of good gravy or stock, an onion, sliced 
and minced, or a teaspoonful of onion juice, a half- 
cup of thick stewed tomato, a green pepper, from 
which the seeds have been removed, minced fine, 
euid a dozen olives, also minced. Let all simmer 
together, stirring constantly, for ten minutes. Should 
you choose to cook this part of the dish in the 
double boiler the cookery will not require such close 

m - ^ f ^ 



i i 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



watching. If this is done, the vegetables must cook 
for fifteen minutes. When the time is up, stir into 
the mixture of vegetables six eggs and cook until these 
are thick. If the other ingredients have cooked so 
rapidly that they have become rather dry put m a 
tablespoonful more of butter, or a little more stock. 
For those who like the taste of salad oil this may 
be substituted for the butter, but as there aie cer- 
tain persons who object to the flavor it is not wise 
to try the experiment without being sure of the 
company. At the last add a teaspoonful of salt and 
serve. 



EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS ¥ ♦ 

Select good mushrooms of tolerable uniformity of 
size. Peel them and lay them in a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the double boiler of the 
chafing-dish. Cover closely and cook for about ten 
minutes, or imtil the mushrooms etre tender. Sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper and take them out with 
a fork, lay them on a hot dish, aad into the butter 
and mushroom liquor left in the pan turn six well 
beaten eggs and a gill of cream. Set the pan 
directly over the flame and cook, stirring all the time, 
until the eggs have thickened. Add a half teaspoon- 

ib , 1. < £ 






SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

ful of salt and a dash of paprika and poui the eggs 
over and around the mushrooms on a flat dish. Or 
you may put the mushrooms back into the chafing- 
dish with the eggs and serve from the blazer. 

HARD BOILED EGGS IN 
CREAM SAUCE ♦ ♦ 

Boil eggs hard in the blazer of the chafing-dish. 
The water should be boiling when they go in and 
they must cook for ten minutes. Take them out, 
wrap them in a napkin, emd put into the chafing-dish 
a tablespoonful each of butter and of flour. Cook 
together until they bubble, turn in a half-pint of 
cream and stir to a thick smooth sauce. Season this 
with ten drops of onion juice, a generous dash of 
paprika, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and a teaispoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. Shell the boiled eggs 
as quickly as possible and pop them into this sauce. 
They should still be hot and a moment in the sauce 
will be all diat b needed before you serve them on 
toast If you wish, instead of putting them into the 
sauce you may have a bit cut off of the bottom of 
each egg so that it will stand, set them upright in a 
flat dish and pour the boiling sauce over and around 
them. 

94 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



HARD BOILED EGGS WITH CHEESE i» * 

Prepare the eggs and the sauce as above directed, 
but just before putting the eggs into the sauce stir 
into this a heaping tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese. It will quickly melt and string, and at this 
stage the eggs may go in. 



i 



i i 



AN "ENGLISH MONKEY" ¥ ♦ 

Put together in the inner vessel of your chafing- 
dish a cupful of cream, half a cupful of bread crumbs, 
two cupfuls of grated cheese, and a pinch of soda. 
Cook imtii all are melted and blended. Stir in then 
two beaten eggs, a half-teaspoonful of paprika, and a 
scant teaspoonful of salt As soon as the mixture 
thickens from the eggs it is ready to serve on hot 
crackers or toast. As will be seen, this is a modifica- 
tion of a Welsh rabbit and is much like what is 
known to us as a cheese fondu or a temperance 
Welsh rabbit 

BECHAMEL EGGS ♦ ♦ 

Cook together in a chafing-dish a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour until they are blended. Add 
to them a cupful of well-seasoned white stock and 
stir tmtil the sauce thickens. Put in a tablespoonful of 

m : ( ^ 



W ^ 

SUrJlDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

capers, a heaping teaspoonful of minced parsley, and 
salt to taste. If the stock was sufficiently salted in 
the first place, no more will be needed now. Lay 
in six hard boiled eggs that have been cut into 
quarters lengthwise and then cut across once. Let 
these get hot, put in one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
ctnd serve. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS ♦ ¥ 

Rather small mushrooms of uniform size should be 
selected for this dish, and, failing them, the French 
champignons will serve. If the fresh mushrooms are 
used they must, of course, be stemmed and peeled. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the double 
boiler of the chafing-dish, lay in the mushrooms, and 
sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper. Simmer 
imtil tender. Add to them a gill of cream, cook for 
five minutes, and serve on hot buttered toast. 

MUSHROOMS AND BACON * » 

Fry thin slices of breakfast bacon crisp in the 
blazer. Take them out and keep them hot while 
you cook in the bacon fat fresh mushrooms, which 
have been stemmed and peeled. Keep the dish 
covered while the cooking of these goes on and use 




f! SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

a low flame. Serve bacon and toast together. If 
you wish you can add eggs to the mushrooms when 
they are tender and serve the three dainties together. 

OYSTER OMELET * ♦ 

This is a dish which requires quick work to be 
well done. Put the oysters over the flame in their 
own liquor, using the lower patt of the chafing-dish. 
Cook them until they begin to curl just a little, dust 
them with salt and pepper, and set them, covered, 
over hot water. Have ready the blazer, or better 
still, the flat omelet pan, such as may be purchased 
for a chafing-dish, put in it two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and melt this over a quick flame. The five 
eggs that are to make the omelet should have been 
beaten, seasoned, iuid mixed with a gill of milk. 
Pour into the pan and cook quickly, loosening the 
omelet from the pan with an omelet knife. As soon 
as the omelet is " set," lay the oysters on one-half of it, 
turn the other half over the oysters, and slip to a hot 
platter. The great object is to keep the oysters 
from becoming either cold or tough while waiting 
for the eggs to cook. 



i 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CHICKEN AND ASPARAGUS TIPS ♦ * 

1 1 Cook together in the blazer a tablespoonful of but- 

ter and one of flour unt3 they bubble, and pour upon 
them a cupful of half -milk and hiJf- cream. When 
you have stirred this to a smooth sauce, lay m two 
cupfuls of cold chicken, cut into neat dice, and a 
cupful of boiled asparagus tips. Let all get hot 
together and then stir in slowly one well-beaten egg. 
Season to taste with pepper and seJt and serve on 
toast, either on a platter or directly from the blazer 
to the individual plate. 



5 



VEAL AND ASPARAGUS TIPS * ♦ 

This may be prepared in exactly the same way, 
being careful that the veal is tender and well cooked. 
Sweetbreads may be cooked in like faishion, first 
parboiling and blanching the sweetbreads. This is 
done by boiling them for ten minutes and then 
throwing them into cold water. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET * * 

This may be prepared like oyster omelet, except 
that the tips must be boiled until tender before the 
omelet is made, or if the cold boiled tips aie used 






g ^ .:=z. =Vgg 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

they must be made and kept hot until the omelet is 
is ready. 



STRAWBERRY OMELET ♦ ♦ 

Cap medium sized beiries and lay them in the 
blazer of the pam with a tablespoonful of sugar to a 
cupful of the berries and just enough water to keep 
them from burning. Simmer them for five or six 
minutes, imtil the fruit seems to be cooked. Set it 
aside then to keep warm, — if covered, the fruit will 
hold its heat without putting over hot water, — while 
you make an omelet as previously directed. Lay 
the fruit in it before folding, and, after it is folded, 
sprinkle the omelet with powdered sugeir. This 
makes a delicious dessert Raspberries or peaches 
may be used in place of the strawberries. 

One word of caution may be expedient, even to 
the experienced che£ng-dish cook. Try no new dishes 
when guests are present, if they are persons concern- 
ing whom you have the least diffidence. 




99 



^ 



u 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES 



' i 



i\ — ,- 



m 



w 



ErD- 



l:J 



^^== ^ 



CHAPTER VIII 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR SUNDAY 
NIGHT SUPPER DAINTIES 

DISHES prepared by any of the following recipes 
are especially suitable for the Sunday night 
supper. Those that are not served cold may 
either be cooked in the chafing-dish or else prepared 
in advance, so that all they will require will be a few 
minutes in the oven to make them ready for the 
table. With the aid of these recipes and those 
already gjven the question of what to have for supper 
Sunday night should cease to possess the dignity of a 
problem. 

ANCHOVY TOAST ♦ * 

Cut rather thin slices of stale bread into rounds 
with a biscuit cutter. Toast them lightly and spread 
with butter. Cover each slice thickly with the white 
and yolk of a hard boiled egg, chopped fine, and in 
the centre of the round lay two anchovies, first free- 
ing them from oil. This dish may be served cold 
or set in the oven long enough to become heated. 

'r ^ ^g 



g^p===========^ 



"^ ""h 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CAVIARE TOAST ¥ ♦ 

Prepare the rounds of toast as above. After 
buttering, spread with Russian cavisu'e, and squeeze 
on this a little lemon juice. Serve cold. Elither of 
the preceding may be varied^ by substituting a slice of 
raw tomato for the hard boiled egg. 

JELUED OYSTERS * ¥ 

Make aa aspic jelly according to directions already 
given. In seasoning add to it a few tablespoonfuls of 
tarragon vinegar. Wet a mould with cold water, 
pour a little of the jelly into it, etnd when partially 
formed lay oysters upon this. Pour in more jelly and 
then another layer of oysters, — do not put these loo 
dose together, — and continue thus until the mould 
is filled. Or you may use small individual moulds, 
allowing from four to six oysters for each person. In 
serving turn out on lettuce leaves, and pass a good 
mayoimaise with the dish. 

SHRIMPS IN TOMATO ASPIC * ♦ 

Strain the liquid from a can of tomatoes euid put 
it over the fire with a couple of slices of onion, a 
stalk of celery, a clove and a little parsley. Simmer 
thirty minutes. Soak quarter of a box of gelatine in 

m ^ 1 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



r 



a half-cup o{ water while the tomato is cooking and 
at the end of the haif-hour pour the boiling liquid 
on the gelatine. Stir until this is entirely dissolved, 
and turn into a mould wet with cold water, first add- 
ing salt and pepper to taste. If you have a little clear 
consomme m the house it is an addition to the 
flavor, but in all there should not be more than a 
pint of the liquid to this amount of gelatine. If a 
larger quantity of the aspic is needed, increase the 
gelatine in proportion. A hcilf-box of gelatine should 
make a quart of jelly. Have the shelled shrimps, 
either fresh or canned. If the latter, throw them 
into cold water for half an hour after taking from the 
can. Dreun, dry, and 2UTange in the aspic cis you 
would the oysters in the preceding recipe. Serve in 
the same fashion on lettuce emd with mayonnaise. 

CLAMS IN GREEN PEPPERS ♦ ♦ 

Select six medium-sized green peppers. They 
should be as nearly uniform in size as possible. Cut 
off the tops, remove the seeds, — do not touch them 
with your fingers, at the risk of burned skin, — and 
lay in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out 
and throw them into cold water. 

Cook together a tablespoonful of butter and one 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

of flour in a saucepan and ix>ur on this one-half pint 
of half milk and half cream. Stir this until it thickens 
and add to it a cupful of chopped dams and the 
mashed yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Cook three 
minutes, season to taste with salt and paprika, squeeze 
in a few drops of lemon juice, and with the mixture 
fill the peppers. Stand them upright, side by side, 
in a baking dish, sprinkle crumbs over the top and 
dot with bits of butter, pour a little of the clam juice 
and water or a half-cupful of weak stock about them 
to prevent their scorching, cook fifteen minutes covered, 
uncover and brown. 

This dish may be made ready in advance and 
then set in the oven for the final baking. 

EGGS AND OYSTERS ♦ ♦ 

Beat dx eggs light without separating the yolks. In 
another dish cut into, small pieces a dozen large 
oysters. Put into the blazer of a chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste, and stir until melted and blended. Put in the 
beaten eggs, and as soon as they begm to thicken 
add the oysters. Cook until the eggs are firm, and 
serve on plain buttered toast or buttered toast spread 
vtrith anchovy paste. Paprika may be added before 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



serving, but the anchovy will, of course, give suffi- 
cient salt. 

ENGUSH CHICKEN PIE ♦ 1» 

Select a young tender chicken for this and joint it, 
making two pieces of each leg and wing, dividing the 
sidebones from the back, and making three or four 
pieces of the breast, if the chicken is a fair size. Cut 
a half-pound of corned pork into neat strips, and 
arreuige this and the chicken in a deep pudding-dish. 
Moisten a cupful of fine bread crumbs to a paste with 
melted butter and the yolk of a raw egg, seasoning 
with salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and chopped 
parsley. Make this force meat into baUs about the 
size of a walnut and drop them into the spaces 
between the pieces of chicken. Over all pour half 
a cupful of cold water. Cover with a good paste, 
leaving a cut in the middle of this at the top. 
While it is baking, covered, m a steady oven, — it 
will take an hour and a half to cook it properly, — 
make a stock of the neck, giblets, and feet, — the 
latter must be scalded and skinned, — well seasoned 
vnth a slice of onion and a bunch of soup herbs. 
When the stock is ready, strain it and turn it on a 
tablespoonful of soaked gelatine. There should be 



i>-i>n«K^»|Snij:»3«i«w 



w^ 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

about two cupfuls of the stock. Pour this into the pie 
with a funnel inserted in the hole left in the centre of 
the dome of pastry ctnd set aside to cool. When cold 
the liquid will have formed a solid jelly. The pie must 
be served cold, of course, and be cut on the table. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES ♦ ¥ 

Chop fine in a meat chopper the white meat of a 
full grown fowl. The meat should be reduced almost 
to a powder. Put it through a sieve and to two 
cups of it add a hcilf-pint of cream and the whites of 
two eggs, beaten stiff. Seeison with pepper and salt. 
Whip all together for several minutes that the mixture 
may be well mixed and very light. Have ready 
boiled maccuroni or spaghetti, and with this line buttered 
timbale moulds, first seasoning it well. The moulds 
lined, fill the inside with the chicken mixture and set 
in a pan of hot water in the oven. Cover and steam 
for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish and pour 
over the timbales a cream or a mushroom sauce. 

These should be cooked in advance and set m 
a pan of boiling water in the oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes before they are wanted Sunday night. 
The sauce may be made on the stove or in the 
chafing-dish at the table. 



d ^ ----==r-__J ffa 



m 




a^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



CALF'S HEAD A LA VINAIGRETTE * • 

Arrange on a flat dish the boiled meat of the calPs 
head cut into neat strips and pour over it a vinaigrette 
sauce, made as follows: Mix a teaspoonful of salt, a 
quartei-teaspoonful of paprika, and a dash of white 
pepper with six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of white wine vinegar and one tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar. Stir all until well blended and 
then add a tablespoonful each of mixed cucumber 
pickles and green pepper (if you cannot get the 
latter use haii as much chopped pickle), a teaspoonful 
each of capers, minced chives, and parsley. Serve 
cold. I add this last direction beiiring in mind a 
green cook of my own who once served mint sauce 
boiling hot! 

CHICKEN AND GREEN PEA SALAD * * 

Cut cold Toast or boiled chicken into neat pieces 
as for ordinary chicken salad, aad to every cupful of 
this allow a half-cupful of cooked green pease, either 
the fresh or the canned. If the latter, they should be 
cooked first for ten minutes in boiling water and then 
drained very dry. Serve on lettuce with a good 
mayonnaise and season well. 

109 




fe& > ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS » ♦ 

Select medium-sized cucumbers. Peel them, cut 
them in half lengthwise, scrape out the seeds and lay 
in cold water for half an hour. Prepare a stuffing of 
a cupful of chopped cold meat, — veal or chicken or 
ham. A good mixture is two-thirds veal or chicken 
and one-third boiled ham. Mince rather fine. Brown 
a half-cupful of crumbs lightly in butter and mix 
with the meat Season with salt and pepper and a 
dash of lemon juice. Soften vnth a gill of cream, or 
as much milk and a tablespoonful of butter. Fill the 
boat-shaped cucumber halves with this stuffing, lay 
them side by side in a baking-pan, and pour around 
them a cupful of weak stock. Bake covered twenty 
minutes, uncover, strew the cucumbers with crumbs 
and a little butter and brown lightly. They are very 
delicious either as a side-dish or as the main feature 
of the supper. 

FRIED GREEN PEPPERS ♦ ♦ 

Cut green peppers into strips lengthwise, removing 
the stem and the seeds, and fry until soft in butter. 
These may be done in the cheifing-dish and make a 
savory accompaniment to cold meat or etre good served 
with bacon or broiled ham or with broiled oysters. 

"V "° ^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES ♦ ¥ 

These should be sliced across, in rather thick 
pieces, and may be cooked in the same way as the 
green peppers and served in like fashion. Many per- 
sons know the good of fried ripe tomatoes without 
suspecting how delicious are those cooked while they 
are still green. Such a dish as this is especially good 
in the fall of the yeax when green tomatoes are 
plentiful in our markets. 

A SUNDAY DINNER LEFT OVER ♦ * 

The cold beef left over from the Sunday dinner 
ctnd served sliced at the Sunday night supper com- 
mends itself to few, except in hot weather, when it 
may be served with a salad. A hot and savory dish 
may be made of it with little extra care, if sufficient 
mashed potato has been provided to make sure that 
there shall be a cupful of this saved from the midday 
meaL 

Chop the meat coarsely and put it into a baking- 
dish, pouring over it the gravy. Take care that this 
is seasoned well, adding, if necessary, a little onion 
juice, a dash of Worcestershire sauce, and one of 
kitchen bouquet. Soften the mashed potato with 
milk if it is inclined to be stiff, stir into it a beaten 



r 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



egg and spread it over the minced beef. Put in the 
oven covered for tv\renty minutes, uncover long 
enough to brovni lightly before sending to table. If 
preferred, the meat and potato pate may be cooked 
in individual dishes. 

SALLY LUNN ♦ * 

Beat two eggs light, without sepeurating the whites 
iuid yolks and stir into them three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, a half cupful .of warm milk and a 
quarter teaspoonful of baking soda, dissolving this first 
in a little boiling water. Into this beat two cupfuls of 
flour with which have been sifted a half teaspoonful 
each of salt and sugar. Last of all dissolve a half 
yeast cake in half a cup of warm water and stir into 
the batter. Beat hard until you have a smooth 
batter and turn into a round greased mould to rise. 
If this is set at noon and put in a tolerably warm 
place it will have risen sufficiently to bake in time 
for supper. Bake for half an hour or until a straw 
comes clean from it. This is a delicious hot bread. 

RICE BREAD ♦ * 

Beat hot water into two cupfuls of cold boiled rice 
until it is the consistency of a rather thick batter. To 
S^ "2 /g 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

this add three eggs, whipped light, a tablespoonful of 
butter, a cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and just enough milk to make a batter that 
will pour. Bake in a buttered pan. When done, 
cut into squares, split, butter and serve hot. 

WAFER MUFFINS ♦ * 

Beat two eggs light, put with them two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, a cup of creeim or rich milk, 
one scJtsfioonful of salt, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder and flour enough to make a very soft dough. 
Form this with the hands into bcJls the size of the 
yolk of a hard boiled egg and then roll each into 
a cake about as large as a tea-plate. They should 
not be much thicker than paper. Bake on a hot pan 
in a quick oven, taking care that they do not scorch. 
Eat with butter. 



DEVILLED BREAD ♦ ♦ 

Cut stale bread, — baker's bread fs preferable, — 
into neat slices, and trim o£f the crust. Spread the 
bread lightly with butter, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
a dust of paprika and a little salt, and put into a bak- 
ing pan. Set in a quick oven long enough to melt 
the cheese a little and to crisp the bread. 




w 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

It is often slight trouble to mix one of these hot 
breads or some other of similar nature, and its 
presence makes the supper a feast, even if the other 
items of the menu are simple. With Sally Lunn, 
cold meat, a salad, and a simple sweet one has a 
supper which etny one with an appetite amd a reason- 
able digestion might be glad to share. 

A FEW SWEETS 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM ♦ » 

Soak half a box of gelatine for half an hour in 
cold water enough to cover it. During this time let 
two cupfuls of the shredded pineapple simmer over 
the fire with a cupful of sugar. Take from the 
stove, add the gelatine and stir until this is dis- 
solved. Put aside until the jelly is cool and begins 
to show signs of forming around the edge. Set in a 
pan of cracked ice and beat hard vnth an egg-beater 
until the jelly begins to stiffen, and then stir in lightly 
a pint of cream, whipped stiff. Turn into a mould, 
place on the ice, and leave there until it is weuited. 

For this dish either the fresh or the csumed pine- 
e^ple may be used. If the latter is pretty sweet, 
less sugar may be put with it in cooking. 



114 






\- 



^mv 
d-1^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 1 

A SURPRISE CUSTARD * ¥ 

Make a good custard of a quart of milk, a cupful 
of sugar, and five eggs. Scald the milk in a double 
boiler, add the sugar and the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and three of the whites, and cook until the 
custeu'd thickens. Take from the lire and set ciside 
to cool. When ready to serve put a teaspoonful of 
fruit jelly or of jam into the bottom of each cup in 
which the custard is to be served and fill up with 
the custcurd. Make a meringue of the remaining 
whites of the eggs and a little sugar, heap this on the 
custard and dot with bits of bright jelly. Have 
these or any other custards served as nearly ice cold 
as possible. Light cakes should be peissed with them. 

MACAROON CUSTARD » ♦ 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in half a cupful 
of water for half an hour. Make a light custard of 
a pint of milk, two eggs, the whites and the yolks 
both, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When cooked 
take it from the fire and stir in the gelatine. As soon 
as this is dissolved and well mixed set the custard 
aside to harden, flavoring it with vanilla. When 
firm, take the custard from the dish by spoonfuls, 
roll each of them in powdered macaroons, and serve 
115 



Nrf* ivK'mrV 



imh 




SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

heaped on a dish. Macaroons to be thus used 
should be stale and dry enough to crumble well 
without the particles sticking together. 

COFFEE JUNKET * ♦ 

To a pmt and a half of milk add half a cupful of 
very strong black coffee. Sweeten to taste with granu- 
lated sugar and stir until this is thoroughly dissolved. 
Put in a tablespoonful of liquid rennet or a rennet 
tablet which has been dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
water. Let the dish stand in a room of moderate 
temperature until the junket is formed and then put 
at once on the ice or in a cold place. Serve with 
cream, either whipped or plain. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI JELLY ♦ * 

Make a good wine jelly by soaking a half-box of 
gelatine in half a cupful of cold water for em hour, 
emd pouring upon it two cupfuls of boiling water in 
which has been dissolved a cupful of sugar. Stir until 
the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, add the juice of a 
lemon and a gill and a haii of sherry. Set aside to 
cool. When the jelly has begun to form, put a layer 
of it in the bottom of a mould and arrange upon it 
sliced preserved oi Ccuidied fruit. If the former, care 



S-g/^ 



c-/ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 

should be taken to have it drained of every particle 
of liquor or juice. Any fruit may be used, — cherries, 
pineapple, apricots, and the like if the crystallized fruits 
are employed, preserved or canned peaches, pears, 
berries, etc., if the canned fruits are used. Fresh 
fruits may cJso serve in this way. I have eaten wine 
jelly with ripe strawberries embedded in it, and it 
was a pretty and delicious dish. The layer of fruit 
should be followed by one of jelly and so on until the 
mould is filled. Set on the ice until firm and serve 
very cold, with cream, plain or whipped. The jelly 
may abo be set to form in individual moulds and 
these served on a flat dish surrounded by whipped 
cream. 

MAPLE CREAM FILLING FOR CAKE » * 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of water. When soft, dissolve it over the 
fire in a very little boiling water. Whip a pint of 
cream stifl and beat into it the dissolved gelatine. 
Sweeten well with finely crushed maple sugar. This 
filling may be put between layers of plain cup cake 
or of any simple cake such as is used for a layer 
cake, and also may be spread over the top. Do the 
spreading before the gelatine has stiffened too much. 
117 



S#i 



vt 



r^ 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPERS 



NUT CAKES » «• 

Beat two eggs and stir into them a cupful of light 
brown sugar and two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. 
Add to them one cup of nut meats, chopped fine. 
Spread the mixture in a very thin layer on a well- 
greased tin and bake ten minutes or until lightly 
browned, — not scorched or blackened. Cut into 
squares and take quickly from the tin. They will 
become crisp when exposed to the eur. 



THE END, 



118 



d 






i:#t 



INDEX 



f 'i 



.C-v^"; i' !; 



w 



^ 






w 



Wi 



INDEX 



An "English Monkey" 

Anchovy Toast 

An Unusual Potato Salad 

Asparagus Omelet 

A Sunday Dinner Left Over 

A Surprise Custard 

A Word about Tomato Salads 

Bechamel Eggs : 

Beef 

Devilled . 

Smoked . 

Spiced 

With Tomato Sauce 

Cabbage and Cheese . 
Cake Custard . 
Calves' Head a la Vinaigrette 
Caviar Cemapes 
Caviare Toast . 
Chafing-Dish Creations . 
Cheese Sandwiches, Fried 
Chicken and Green Pea Salad 
Chicken, Galantine 

And Asparagus Tips 



^ 



121 



Page 

94 
103 

30 

98 
111 
115 

56 

94 

28 
29 
52 
28 

31 
71 

109 
78 

104 
89 
29 

109 
81 
98 



^ 



w 


— KLi3 


INDEX 1 




Page 


Chicken in Jelly 


. 81 


Mousse 


. 83 


Pie, English 


107 


Timbales .... 


108 


Chocolate, Hot 


. 42 


Clam Canapes 


78 


Clams, Devilled, Panned 


64 


In Green Peppers 


105 


Scalloped in -Shells 


61 


Coffee Junket ..... 


116 


Cold Meat in Aspic 


54 


Custaid, A Surprise .... 


115 


Cake . 


71 


Macaroon .... 


115 


Cucumbers, Stuffed .... 


110 


Cranberry Bavarian Cream 


70 


Creamed Tomatoes 


27 


Creamed Panned Oysters 


62 


DesserU 




A Surprise Custaid 


115 


Cake Custard 


71 


Coffee Junket .... 


116 


Cranberry Bavarian Cream 


70 


Fig and Nut Jelly . 


85 


Frozen Peaches with Ice Cream 


84 


Fruit Syllabub 


68 


Italian Chestnut Pudding . 


68 


Macaroon Custard 


115 


Marshmallows and Maraschino 


86 


Orange Jelly .... 


69 


Pineapple Bavarian Cream 


114 


Raspberry Tapioca 


70 


Stewed Figs with Cream . 


85 


"■x 122 




Lj 1/ L._ 1 Vi 1— 1 



w 



INDEX 



^ 







Pa,; 




Desserts (continued) 






Stuffed Pineapple . 


. 67 




Tutti-Frutti Jelly . 


. 116 




Devilled Beef or Mutton 


. 28 




Devilled Bread 


. 113 




Devilled Panned Clams 


. 64 




Duck or Chicken in Jelly 


. 81 




Eggs, a la Newburg 


. 92 




And Tomato Scallops 


. 65 




Bechamel .... 


. 94 




Hard Boiled with Cheese . 


. 94 




Hard Boiled in Cream Sauce 


. 95 




Danish .... 


. 92 




With Mushrooms . 


. 93 




And Oysters 


. 106 




English Chicken Pie . 


. 107 




Fig and Nut Jelly 


. 85 




Fish 






Clam Canapes 


. 78 




Clams m Green Peppers . 


. 105 




Clams Scalloped in Shell . 


. 61 




Devilled Paimed Clams 


. 64 




Lobster Salad in Shell 


. 83 




Shrimps in Tomato Aspic . 


. 104 




Savory Lobster 


. 64 




Fruit Syllabub .... 


. 68 




Green Pease in Aspic . 


. 56 




Hot Chocolate 


. 42 




Italian Chestnut Pudding 


. 68 




Jelly, Fig and Nut 


. 85 


h 


123 




r^s 


{ 



4k 






\SSi 



L 



INDEX 



Jelly, Orange . 
Quick Aspic 
Tutti-Frutti 

L^ver Loaf 

Lobster Salad in Shell 

Macaroon Custard 
Maple Cream Filling (or Cake 
Marshmallows and Marachino 
Meat and Green Pepper Scallop 
Mushrooms euid Bacon . 
Mushrooms, Stewed 
Mushrooms with Eggs . 
Mutton, Devilled 

Nut Cakes 

Orange Jelly . 

Oysters, Creamed, Panned 

Jellied 

Omelet 

Omelet . 

And Eggs 
Omelets 

Asparagus 

Oyster 

Oyster 

Strawberry 

Panned Kidneys 
Peaches, Frozen with Ice Cream 
Peppers, Fried Green . 
Pillau of Rice and Peppers 
Pineapple Bavarian Creeun 

Quick Aspic Jelly 

124 



El-X^ 



^ 

^ 



^^ 



INDEX 



Raspberry Tapioca 
Rice Bread 

Salads, 

Chicken cind Green Peeise 

Lobster in SheU 

Potato . 

Tomato . 
Sally Lunn 
Savory Lobster 

Mince of Cold Meats 

Rice and Tomato . 

Smoked Beef 
Shrimps in Tomato Aspic 
Spanish Eggs . 
Spiced Beef 

Stewed Figs with Cream 
Stewed Mushrooms 
Strawberry Omelet 
Stuffed Cucumbers 
Stuffed Pineapple 

Toast, Anchovy 

Caviare . 
Tomato and Egg Scallop 

Creamed . 

Fried 

Fried, Green 

In Aspic . 

Salad 

Sauce with Beef . 

With Rice 

With Whipped Cream 
Tongue Mousse 

^. 125 



P>se 
70 

112 



109 
83 
30 
56 

112 
64 
29 
66 
29 

104 
92 
52 
85 
96 
99 

110 
67 

103 
104 
66 
27 
27 
111 
55 
56 
28 
66 
84 
82 



4 



m^ 



^ 



Tutti-Frutti JeQy 

Unusual Savories and Sweets 

Veal 2uid Asparsigus Tips 
Loaf 

Wafer Muffins 



B I 



^ 






126 



INDEX 

Page 

116 

61 

98 
79 

113 



xTwJ 



t|3t 









