
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 



Gift of Rqye F. Gold 



Kirmess Oook Book 



A COLLECTION OF WELL-TESTED 
RECIPES FROM THE BEST HOUSE- 
KEEPERS OF JERSEY CITY 
AND ELSEWHERE 



COMPILED FOR THE 

KIRMESS GIVEN FOR THE BENEHT OF CHRIST HOSPITAL 

OF JERSEY CITY. NOV. 7-8-9-10. 1906 






Entered accordlnir to Act of OonrresB. In the year 1907, by Christ 

Hospital of Jersey Oity. in the Office of the Librarian 

of Oonsress, at Waahinston. 



'.•./.\ 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 16 

is to be eaten, should be brought in on a tray with the 
glass of punch, and laid upon the plate or cloth, beside 
the glass. 

SBBYING ABTIOHOKBB. 

Artichokes, asparagus, cauliflower and com on the 
cob, are always serred as a seperate course, as acces- 
sories to the main course. When the main course is 
finished the waitress brings in two plates of artichokes. 
The plate in her left hand is set down upon the serving 
table; the other plate is set down before the guest, seated 
on the right of the host, and from the right side. The 
second plate of artichokes, brought from the serving 
table, is set down from the right, before the next in 
order. The routine is continued until all are served. 

SEBVINQ THE PUNCH. 

When the main course of the dinner is finished bring 
in two glasses of punch on small plates covered with 
doilies. Leave one on the serving table and carry the 
other to the guest at the right of the host Use a tray, 
if spoons for the punch are brought in at this time. 
Take up the artichoke plate, and set down the punch 
with the right hand, and from the right side, and re- 
peat until all are served. 

SEBVING THE GAME 0OUB8E. 

When the punch has been disposed of, serving first 
the guest at the right of the host, replacing the plates 
holding the punch glasses with warm game plates. 
Carve duck in pantry, place upon a platter with fork 
and spoon, surrounded by rice cups filled with currant 



16 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

jelly. Place the platter of duck on a folded napkm 
laid on the flat of the hand. Serve to the left of the one 
first supplied with the plate, then serve the hominy 
balls in the same manner. When all are served, set 
small plates, one at a time, for those wishing salad. 
These plates may hold the salad when brought to the 
table, or salad may be served from the salad bowl to 
each guest, commencing with guest on right of host, 
and served from the left side. When tMs course is 
finished remove salad plates, one at a time, without the 
tray. Then remove die game plates, always one at a 
time, and in the same order in which they were brought 
in. 

With a tray take up salt and pepper boxes; and, 
when these have been disposed of, return and free the 
table from crumbs. 

SERVINO THE DESSERT. 

Have the ice cream in individual forms laid on in- 
dividual plates; set these one at a time, before each 
guest at tiie right. Pass little cakes to the left of each 
guest. Pass the bonbons and nuts on a tray to the 
left of each guest. The salted nuts may have been 
passed before, as they are in order at any time when 
there is delay in serving a course. Bring in the finger 
bowls on small doily-covered plates, one at a time, and 
take out the dessert plates. After all are provided with 
these, the bowl and doily being removed from the 
plate, pass fruit, the hot-house grapes having silver 
grape scissors placed beside them. Coffee in cups, is 
now brought in and set down as usual from the right, 
and cream and sugar on a tray are afterwards passed to 
the left of each guest. 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 17 

The main dish of the dessert may be shaped in a 
large mouldy a portion to be cut for each guest, and 
served from handsomly decorated dish. 

If wine is served at the dinner, dessert being finished, 
the hostess leads the ladies to the drawing room and the 
gentlemen follow soon, after coflfee and liqueurs have 
been served to them and those have smoked who wished 
to do so. The smoking may take place either in the 
dining room or smoking room or library, as circum- 
stances dictate. At the same time cofiee and liqueurs 
are also served to the ladies in the drawing room. 



HOW TO SERVE WINES 



CHAPTER III 

THE SERVICE OF WINES 

In many houses, where means are unlimited, but one 
wine — claret — is served throughout the meal. When 
guests are bidden, often champagne takes the place of 
claret. 

When two wines are served, choice is made of Bur- 
gundy and champagne. 

When three wines are desired, pale sherry is served 
with the soup and champagne from thereon until the 
dessert, when port and old claret are brought in. 

When a different variety of wine is served with each 
distinct course, the classification is as follows: — 

With appetiser, sometime a cocktail, oftener noth- 
ing. 

With oysters, sauterne. 

With the soup, pale sherry. 

With the fish, hock or sauterne. 

With entrfes, claret dr Burgundy. 

With the roast, champagne. 

With the game. Burgundy. 

With cold dishes and hot or cold sweets, champagne. 

With dessert or cheese, port wine. 

With coffee, liqueurs. 



20 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

TEMPERATURE AT WHICH WINES SHOULD BE SERVED 

The temperature at which wines should be served va- 
ries with the wine ; Champagne and similar wines are at 
their best when chilled considerably. Sauteme and 
Rhine wines need to be moderately cool; if too cold or 
unchilled^ the fresh agreeable flavor is lacking. Claret 
and Burgundy are best at the temperature of the aver- 
age living room. Port^ sherry and Madeira lose in 
flavor and body by being chilled. 

The following schedule, compiled by an English ex- 
pert, gives the temperature in degrees, Fahrenheit, at 
which wines should be when poured into the glasses at 
the table : 

Sherry, 40° F.; Sauteme, 50° F.; Claret, 65° F.; 
Burgundy, 70° F.; Champagne, 35° F.; Port, 66° F.; 
Maderia, 65° F. 

Wine should not be chilled by putting ice into it; it 
should be chilled before decanting. To cool champagne, 
an hour before it is to be served lay the bottles in a cool- 
er or basin, put ice broken into pieces on them, being 
careful to keep the necks of the bottles free from the 
ice ; then cover the whole with a piece of flannel wet in 
cold water. Turn the bottles occasionally, to chill 
uniformly. 

Sometimes coarse salt is added with the ice; this 
will cause the wine to chill more quickly. In about 
twenty-five minutes, when salt is used, the wine will 
contain little flakes of ice and is ready for serving. In 
cooling champagne, no less than in cooling a fruit syrup, 
we take away from the body and flavor; and, while all 
champagne is better for a slight chilling, none but very 

h fruity wine should be frapped. Ward McAllister, 



HOW TO SERVE WINES. 21 

the famous authority on wines^ says: '^In serving for 
one who likes it cold^ the wine should be cooled sufficient- 
ly to form a bead on the outside of the glass into which 
it is poured. It is pretty, and the perfection of con- 
dition." 

Champagne is served from the bottle. Decant claret, 
Burgundy, and sherry before serving them; sherry 
should be decanted and left in a cold place one hour 
before dinner. 

Claret and Burgundy brought from a cool cellar may 
be changed to a luke-warm temperature by carefully 
disposing the bottles in warm water or near a fire. 



HOW TO SERVE LUNCHEONS 



CHAPTER IV 

STYLE OF SBRVINO LUNCHEONS 

A formal luncheon is usually served after the Bus- 
sian style of service, and the directions given for serv- 
ing dinner will suffice for this meal also. On a table, 
without cloth, the luncheon is served satisfactorily only 
after the Bussian fashion. 

MENU 

Qrape Fruit. 

Bouillon. Olives. 

Oysters, Manhattan Style. 

Brown-Bread Sandwiches. 

Chicken Timbales, Mushroom Sauce. 

Little Fillets pf Beef, Spanish Sauce. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Lettuce, French Dressing. 

Pulled Bread. Cheese Balls. 

Angel Parf ait. Little Cakes. 

Bonbons. Coffee. 

LAYING THE TABLE 

A bowl, of flowers stands on a centrepiece in the centre 
of the table. Place dishes of salted almonds and bon- 
bons. Olives, which are served upon bits of ice, should 
not be placed upon the table. Now, according to the in- 



24 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

structions previously given, set in place the following 
items: 

Service or place plates (ten inches in diameter). 

Spoons for grape fruit. (Set these above the plate or 
first in order at the right) 

Spoons for bouillon. 

Forks for oysters (those used for raw oysters). 

Small forks for timbales. 

Knives and forks for fillets of beef. 

Salad forks. 

Tumblers for water. 

Glasses for wine or ApoUinaris. 

Napkins. (Later on insert a roll or piece of bread 
between the folds.) 

(Supply balls of butter later on.) 

Bread-and-butter-plates, with spreaders. 

THE SIDE-TABLE WHEN LUNCHEON IS ANNOUNCED 

When luncheon is announced, the following items 
should be in order upon the side-table: — 

A carafe of chilled water, either with or without a 
bowl of ice, in bits, with spoon. 

Extra supply of butter. 

Extra supply of bread. 

Sandwiches to serve with oysters. 

Olives in fancy dish- 

Cruets of oil and vinegar. 

Salad fork and spoon. 

Ice-cream forks or spoons. 

Cut sugar for coffee. 

Finger bowls on plates, with doilies between. 

Tablespoon to serve timbales. 



HOW TO SERVE LUNCHEON. 25 # 

A carying fork of small size and a tablespoon to serve 
the beef. 

After-dinner coffee spoons. 

A tray covered with a doily. 

Two or three napkins and towels for emergencies. 

The bouillon cups and plates for the oysters, the plates 
for the timbales and fillets of beef should be in the 
warming oven. 

The plates for the salad and ices should be in the 
refrigerator, preferably one standing in the butler's 
pantry. 

A second side-table, or a dinner wagon, set on castors, 
affords means to expedite the service when the number 
of attendants is limited. 

THE TABLE WHEN LUNCHEON IS ANNOUNCED 

When luncheon is announced, the grape fruit is in 
place on fancy plates set upon the service plates, the 
tumblers are filled to two-thirds their height with water 
or bits of ice and water, and each individual dish is sup- 
plied with butter. At a very formal luncheon the but- 
ter is omitted. 

REMOVING THE GRAPE-FRUIT COURSE 

Beginning at the right of the hostess, remove the 
grape-fruit plates from the right. Eemove them, one 
at a time, or one in each hand, to the pantry. Leave the 
service plate in position. 

SERVING THE BOUILLON 

Now bring in the bouillon cups and saucers, one at a 
time, one in each hand, borne on the flat of the hand, a 



26 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

napkin between, as is most expedient under the cir- 
cumstances, and set them upon the service plates. 

Eemove the cups and saucers from the right, still leav- 
ing the service plates in place. 

Pass the olives on a tray to the left, that each may 
help herself. 

In removing soiled plates, begin with the individual 
first served. 

SERVING AND CLEARING AWAY THE OYSTERS 

Alternate the service, and begin with the guest at the 
left of the hostess. Eemove the service plates, and from 
the right set down the plates of oysters cooked in the 
sheU. 

Pass the plate of sandwiches to the left of each, be- 
ginning with the one first served to oysters. 

Remove these plates as before, again leaving the ser- 
vice plates in place. 

SERVING THE TIMBALES 

The timbales may be placed in the pantry or kitch- 
en, upon individual plates or upon one large platter. 
In the first case, set the individual plates as before. In 
the second case, place the hot plates for the timbales 
upon the side-table, then, taking one in each hand, set 
down from the right. Return to the pantry for the plat- 
ter of timbales, take the tablespoon from the side-table, 
put it on the platter, then, carrying the platter upon a 
folded napkin laid upon the flat of the left hand, pass to 
the left, and let each one help herself. 

Pass bread to the left of those needing it. 

Refill tumblers with water. 



HOW TO SERVE LUNCHEON. 27 

Bemove the timbale plates^ one at a time^ from the 
right. 

SERVING THE FILLETS OF BEEF AND POTATOES 

Bring to the side-table the hot plates for the fillets of 
beef, remove the timbale plates, one at a time from the 
right, then, taking a plate in the left hand serve each 
guest commencing on the right of the hostess. When 
all are thus provided with hot plates, bring in the fillets 
of beef with sauce on a platter on the flat of the hand, 
set a spoon upon the dish, and passing to the left of 
each guest, serve the fillets. 

Beturn to the pantry for the dish of potatoes, and 
serve these in the same manner. This dish, being small- 
er than the platter of meat, if preferred, may be car- 
ried on the tray. 

SERVING THE SALAD 

After plates of the main course are removed, one at a 
time, commencing on the right of the hostess, and from 
right side, the salad may be served on individual plates, 
placing the plates of salad before the guest at the 
right of the hostess. Now from the side-table, take 
up the second prepared plate, and set it before the 
second in order. When all are served, bring in the 
cheese balls, on a plate covered with a doiley, and 
the pulled bread, together on the tray, and pass to the 
left, that each may help herself. 

SERVING THE SWEET COURSE 

Remove the crumbs. TJse a plate and napkin for 
a bare table, and the pan and knife for a draped table. 
Set the dish of parfait before the hostess, with the slicer 



28 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

at the right. Return to the side-table for two plates; 
put one before the hostess, and, when she has disposed 
the ice upon it, replace it with the other plate, and set 
the plate of cream before the guest at the left of the 
hostess. Repeat until all are served. Pass the plate 
of cake to the left, that each may help herself. Or the 
sweet course may be served in individual forms on in- 
dividual plates from the right side of guest, commencing 
on right of hostess. Continue until all are served. Re- 
move these plates, one in each hand. Bring in the fin- 
ger-bowls on fancy plates, with doilies between, one 
in each hand. Set these down from the right Pass 
the bonbons to the left, that each may help herself. The 
bonbons being eaten, take out these plates, one in 
each hand, and bring in two coflfe cups on a tray. Set 
these down from the right. When all are served, re- 
turn with sugar and cream or sugar alone, on the tray, 
and pass to the left, that those who wish may help 
themselves. 

COFFEE SERVED IN LIBRARY. 

The coflfee is often served in the library or recep- 
tion-room. The waitress may bring it in, in after- 
dinner cups on a tray, and return for the sugar; or 
the after-dinner coffee service — coffee pot with cups 
and sugar bowl (no creamer) — may be brought in on 
a larger tray, and set down on a table, at which the 
hostess seats herself to pour the coffee. The maid 
passes the cups on a tray, and afterwards passes the su- 
gar. She remains to gather up the cups and remove 
them. 



HOW TO SERVE LUNCHEON. 29 

CREAM D£ MENTHE SEBYEO IN^ LIBRARY 

At a luncheon party, when coffee is served at the 
table, creme de menthe is occasionally passed after the 
guests are seated in the library. Tiny cordial glasses 
are partially filled with fine shaved ice and ovgr this 
is poured a tablespoonful of sugar syrup mixed with 
creme de menthe cordial. These are set on very small 
doily-covered plates, an after-dinner coffee spoon be- 
side each glass. The plates are passed, two at a time, 
on a tray. 



HOW TO SERVE AFTERNOON TEA 



CHAPTBE V 

SERVING AFTERNOON TEA 

In many houses where a cook and waitress make 
np the staff of employees^ afternoon tea is a simple 
and every day occurrence. Tiny sweet wafers or cakes 
or plain bread-and-butter sandwiches with tea are us- 
ually all that is provided at this hour; still there are 
hostesses who vary the items from day to day, or occa- 
Bionally. Hot bouillion with bread sticks, hot toasted 
mufSns or cakes, nut, cress, sweet sandwiches, and a 
dish of bonbons are served in some houses. The cook 
assists in the preparation of some of these articles, 
but the waitress is responsible for the freshness of the 
tea, the temperature of the bouillon, tea, and hot muf- 
fins. 

For carrying out the hospitality expressed in this 
custom, a nest of tea-tables and a "curate'^ or English 
basket-tray are of great convenience. These articles 
are very light and sometimes exceptionally pretty; the 
tables are often of highly-polished mahogany. The bas- 
ket-tray ("curate") consists of a tripod to which three 
hoops are fastened one above another, and some dis- 
tance apart; into each of the hoops is set a plate hold- 
ing the articles to be served. The framework is of 
mahogany, bamboo, or other light wood, and the whole 



32 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

is carried about the room by a handle at the top. The 
other accessories to afternoon tea are : 

1. Tea cloths for the tables. 

2. Small fringed napkins for the guests. 

3. Doilies for the bread and cake trays or baskets. 

4. A small tray covered with a doily for the waitress- 

5. A tray holding two or three small tea cups and 
saucers, teaspoons of small size, small sugarbowl with 
sugar and tongs, small cream pitcher of cream, and a 
pretty dish holding thin slices of lemon. 

6. A teapot of fresh made tea, or a silver tea kettle 
or a samovar in which to boil water, a tea caddy with 
tea, spoon for the caddy, a silver tea ball or china per- 
colater. 

7. A Bouillon urn. 

8. Bouillon cups. 

9. Bouillon spoons. 

The waitress may or may not answer the bell and ad- 
mit such callers as come; this depends upon the num- 
ber of employees. 

After the hostess has greeted one or more guests, the 
waitress sets a pot of tea to brew, noiselessly brings in 
one of the larger tables from the "nest," and sets it 
in an inconspicuous place in the drawing-room. Upon 
this she disposes such articles as will crowd the table 
of her mistress. Here also she sets the bouillon urn, 
with cups and spoons, when bouillon is provided. 

The outer table of the nest she now sets before the 
hostess, spreads a cloth over it, and brings in the tea- 
tray to set down upon it. After tea is made and poured 
she passes it on her tray, with two or three napkins 
beside the cup, to the one for whom it is prepared, 
then brings in the basket-tray of edibles, and passes 



PREFACE. 



This book is sent forth to the pnblic by the women 
connected with the "Kirmess/* They hope that it 
may meet with a large and rapid sale. The profits 
accoring therefrom will be devoted ezdnaively to 
Christ Hospital, thus bringing comfort and cheer to 
those to whom it ministers. 

In compiling this book, much assistance has been 
rendered by the women, who have so kindly sent 
thoroughly tested recipes, without which this book 
could not have been published. For suggestions and 
many recipes, we are under much obligation to Mrs. 
Thomas K. Egbert and Mrs. Charles A. Qould of New 
York; also to "The TJp-to-Date Waitress,*' "Salads, 
Sandwiches and Chafing-dish Dainties,*' by Janet Mc- 
Kenzie Hill. The "Cook Books'* of Mrs. Seely, Marion 
Harland, Miss Farloa, Oscar, Filippini, The Boston 
Cooking School Cook Book and others, to which we ac- 
knowledge our indebtedness for the favors received. 
Jersey City, November 1st, 1906. 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS 



CHAPTER I 

STYLES OF SEBVINO MEALS 

There are two distinct styles of serving meals, the 
English and the Russian. 

When a meal is served after the Russian fashion, all 
the responsibility of supplying food for those at table 
falls upon the attendants. Dinner is a meal for which 
this formal service is best adapted. Nothing appears 
upon the table save the centre-piece (a bonbon dish or 
two is allowable), and the articles that compose the indi- 
vidual covers. All food is served "from the side table^^ ; 
i. e., by attendants who pass the food, separated into por- 
tions, to the left of those at table, for each to help 
himself; or, made ready on the individual plates, it is 
set down before each individual from the right 

ENGLISH SERVICE 

The English style of service allows of personal atten- 
tion, on the part of those sitting at the head and foot 
of the table, to the needs of those about them. The food 
is served "from the table.'' The meat or fish just as it 
is taken from the oven or kettle, except for its garnish, 
is set down before the "head of the house,'' who carves 
it and selects the portion desired by each. Place also 



6 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

is found upon the table for one or two vegetables^ which 
are served by someone at the table. Bread and butter, 
pickles and relishes, are also given a place upon the 
table. But, save relishes, etc., only one course appears 
at a time upon the table. 

SEBVING DINNER, ENGLISH STYLE 

Lay over the polished top of the table a heavy cover 
of felt. Fasten this securely about the legs, that it may 
not slide about upon the polished surface. This cover 
will protect the table top, deaden the sound made in set- 
ting down china, etc., and improve the appearance of 
even the finest linen. Over this cover spread the damask 
cloth, having the fold of the cloth exactly in the centre 
of the table with opposite edges of the cloth at uni- 
form distances from the floor. 

At the centre of the table place a vase or bowl of cut 
flowers. The dinner plate and cutlery are set half inch 
from the edge of the table- The decorations of the plate 
should face the sitter at the table. If plates have 
any crest or monogram this should be carefully put to- 
ward the middle of the table, and quite straight one with 
the other. Napkins are folded, monogram on top, and 
are laid on the plate with a piece of bread or roll in the 
fold, in such a way that it may be seen.' At the right of 
the plate and near it lay knives, the cutting edge toward 
the plate. At the right of the knives lay soup spoon, 
across the soup spoon lay oyster fork, or fork for canapSs 
on left of the plate lay forks with tines turned upward 
(never more than three), a small fork for the fish, which 
often matches the fish knife, and a large one for entre6. 
The one to be used first is the farthest away from the 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 



plate. At the point of the forks set a small plate for 
bread, and butter, and across this lay a small knife or 
spreader. At each cover place salt and peppers- 
Tumblers and glasses, last articles to be placed on the 
table, go on the right of the plate, and there are as many 
of the latter as there are wines. 

The end of the table (side if round) farthest from the 
Drawing Boom is the head of the table, the opposite end 
is the foot of the table. The reason is obvious, as the 
host enters the Dining Boom firsts and the hostess leaves 
it first. 

SERVING SOUP AT DINNER, ENGLISH STYLE 

At the hour appointed for dinner, let the waitress as- 
certain if the family be ready for the meal. If so, give 
the final touches to the table, i. e-, bring in the butter 
and fill the glasses with water ; then announce ''dinner is 
served"; bring in the soup plates, comfortably heated, 
to the serving table, and set the soup tureen, covered, be- 
fore the place designed for the hostess; remove the cover 
of the tureen, — ^reverse it> to avoid drops of water (con- 
densed steam), — and take it on a tray to the side-table 
or pantry. Bring back two soup plates, then take up 
the filled plate and set down the other. Set the plate 
of soup on the service plate of the one for whom it was 
prepared and take another plate from the side-table 
to set down on taking up the second filled plate, and thus 
continue. 

At dinner the roast and fish are served from the head 
of the table, and the soup, salad and dessert from the 
opposite end of the table. 



8 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POINTS TO BE REMEMBERED IN BERYINQ MEALS AFTER 
THE ENGLISH STYLE 

1. The food is served from the table. 

2. Save relishes, bread and butter, and such articles 
as pertain alike to all courses up to the desert, only one 
course appears at a time upon the table. 

3. Pass all dishes, from wlfich food is to be taken, to 
the left of those at the table. 

4. Set all portions at the right of the individual for 
whom they are prepared. 

5. Eveiything pertaining to one course must be re- 
moved before serving another course. 

6. In clearing the table for another course : 

(1.) Eemove food. 

(2.) Eemove soiled china, glass and silver. 
(3.) Bemove clean china, glass and silver 
pertaining to the courses served. 

7. In clearing the table for the dessert remove as 
above, including under food, bread, butter, and relishes, 
then free the table from the crumbs, using silver imple- 
ments for a table covered with damask, a napkin and 
plate when the meal is served on the polished table top- 

8. In clearing the table after the carving of meat, 
first remove the carving knife and fork with gravy spott 
upon a tray, taking care that each lies separately on the 
tray. 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 



CHAPTER II 

SEBVING DINNER^ RUSSIAN FASHION 

For a formal dinner the Eussian maimer of serving, 
i, e., from the side, is not only the most elegant, but 
the simplest style of service, for the waitress or other 
attendants pass everything. 

LAYING THE DINNER TABLE FOR RUSSIAN SERVICE. 

Lay over the iop of the polished table a heavy cover 
cf felt. Fasten this securely about the legs that it may 
not slid'3 about upon the polished surface. This cover 
will protect the table top, deaden the sound made in 
setting down china, etc., and improve the appearance of 
even the finest linen. Over this cover spread the 
damask cloth, having the fold of the cloth exactly in 
the centre of the table, with opposite edges of the cloth 
at unifoim distances from the floor. At the centre of 
the table place a vaae or bowl of cut flowers. The 
dinner plate and cutlery are set half inch from the 
edge of the table. The decorations of the plate should 
face the sitter at the table. If plates have any crest 
or monogram this should be carefully put toward the 
middle of the table, and quite straight one with the 
other. Napkins are folded, monogram on top, and are 



10 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

laid on the plate with a piece of bread in the fold^ in 
such a way that it may be seen. Place a dinner and 
fish knife at the right of the cover, cutting edge to- 
ward the plate, beyond this spoon for soup. This may 
be a table, or dessert spoon, or a round bowled soup 
spoon. If raw oysters or clams are to be served, lay 
an oystei fork across the soup spoon, to the right. 
When canapSs take the place of oysters, a small fork 
takes the place of the oyster fork. On the left place the 
forks in order of use, tines turned upward, the fork to 
be used £rst being the farthest away from the plate ; as, 
fork for fish, entree, and roast The forks and spoons 
needed for the dessert service are usually passed when 
needed. Near the point of the dinner knife place a glass 
for water, and beside this the glass for ApoUinaris or 
charged water. Or, if wine be served, the glass for 
water is placed nearly in front of the plate, the glass 
for sauterne at the tip of the soup spoon, and that for 
sherry between the three, forming a half circle. Back 
of these, forming a second half circle, with the sauterne 
glass as in the first circle, place the glasses for cham- 
pagne and burgundy, to accompany the roast and game. 

Place salt and pepper cups and spoons, or shakers at 
each cover. The floral decorations, and the candelabra 
or candlesticks placed symmetrically upon the table, 
complete the laying of the table. 

If there are cards with the guest's name, these are 
laid on the cloth at the top of the plate, or at one side, 
wherever they may be most easily seen. The host 
always comes into the Dining Boom first with the 
lady who is to sit on his right, and who is served 
first; the hostess comes in last of all. As the hostess 
usually knows the plan of the dinner table, and where 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 11 

different people are to sit, cards will not be necessary 
except for large dinners. 

Everything needed in serving the dinner should be in 
its place. The platters for the hot dishes in the hot 
closet, and on the side table extra silver, cutlery and 
china. There should be no delay in serving. 

We will suppose that the table is laid for eight covers, 
and that the following menu is to be served by one 
waitress. 

MODEL DINNER MENU. 

Oysters. Green-pepper sandwiches. 

ConsommS. Cheese Croutons. 

Olives. Celery. 

Boiled Salmon. Cream Sauce. 

Potato Balls with Parsley. 

Tomatoes stuffed with cucumbers. 
Sweetbread-and-Muflhroom Croquettes, 
Asparagus Tips. 
Crown of Lamb filled with peas, Mint Sauce. 
Stuffed Eggplant. 
Articliokes. HoUandaise Sauce. 

Lallah Hook Punch. 
Canvasback Duck. Fried Hominy Balls. 

Currant Jelly in rice cups. 
Celery Salad. 
Ice Cream. Tittle Cakes. 

Bonbons. . Salted Nuts. 

Fruit. 
Coffee. 

With everything ready before hand a well-trained 
waitress, seconded by a cook, with whom she works 



12 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

harmoniously^ can serve this dinner with ease and 
celerity. With a large number of covers, an extra maid 
in the pantry to clear the dishes or, in the Dining 
Koom, to follow the waitress with the accessories of 
the dish she is serving, will tend to smoother and 
shorter service. 

Waitress keeps count of the guests as they arrive^ 
and when all is in readiness she comes to the door of 
the Drawing Boom, and says : "The dinner is served.'* 

As soon as the guests are seated, and have taken 
their napkins and bread from their plates, the waitress 
fills glasses with water, and places oysters upon the 
service plate at each cover, commencing with guest 
on the right of host. Oysters should be served on 
plates of cracked ice, six or eight on each plate, with 
e quarter of a lemon in the centre. Then should follow 
a small tray, on which are tabasco sauce, grated horse- 
radish and green pepper sandwiches, passed to left of 
each in turn, beginning on right of host. This course 
finished, the plates are removed from right side, one at 
a time, beginning with the first one served. These 
plates, as all soiled plates, are deposited in the pantry. 
When caviar or anchovy canapes are served instead of 
oysters, they are always handed on individual plates 
from right side, and placed on service plates. 

SERVING THE SOUP. 

The waitress now brings in two plates of soup, one 
in each hand. The plate in her left hand is set down 
upon the serving table, the other is set down upon the 
service plate of the guest sitting on the right of the 
host. The second plate of soup, brought from the 
serving table, is set down from the right before the 



HOW TO SERVE DINNERS. 13 

guest next in order. Two more plates of sonp are 
brought in as before, and this routine is repeated un- 
til all are served in order, the host being served last. 
Cheese croutons are then passed from left side. When 
this course is finished the waitress steps to the right of 
the first one served, takes up the soup plate, leaving 
the service plate in position, and carries it to the pantry. 
Continue in order until all are removed. The olives 
and celery are now passed upon a tray to the left of 
the guest on the right of the host, and this routine is 
followed until all are served. The service plate now 
comes into use as the receptacle upon which these 
articles are placed. Service plates are removed after 
course of hors d'oeuvres. 

SIDE AT WHICH DISHES ABE SET DOWN AND PRESENTED. 

Note that dishes are set down and removed from the 
right of the individual served, and that dishes from 
which one is to help himself are presented on the left 
hand. When waitress presents a dish she should hold 
it low enough to enable the guest to help himself with 
ease. 

SEBVING FISH. 

The fish may be served on a large platter, with the 
sauce around it, the whole handsomely decorated, and 
the potato balls upon another dish neatly garnished 
with parsley. Waitress should carry a warm plate (or 
one in each hand) from the serving table to the guest 
at the right of the host, and continue until all have 
warm plates, then carry the platter of fish on a folded 
napkin laid on the flat of the hand, to the left of the 
one first supplied with plate. Repeat until all are 
served. Then serve the potatoes in the same manner. 



14 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Serve tomatoea filled with cucumbers on a platter, 
with spoon placed on platter, the platter on a folded 
napkin laid on the fiat of the hand. Serve to the 
left of each guest. The cucumbers are eaten with the 
fish fork. 

SERVING ENTBEE. 

The ontree of croquettes with asparagus tips may be 
served on individual plates, and set down with the right 
hand, as the fish is taken up with the left hand, or 
empty plates may be set down as the fish plate is taken 
up; and, when those are all in place, the croquettes 
surrounded with the asparagus may be carried to the 
left of each guest upon the flat of the hand, and be 
served from a large and handsomely decorated dish. 

SBBVING THE CBOWN OF LAMB AND VEGETABLES. 

The crown of lamb should be carved, i. e., ribs sepa- 
rated, in the pantry, then filled with peas, placed upon 
platter with fork and spoon, garnished with latticed 
potatoes and parsley. Place warm dinner plate before 
each guest, as entree plate is removed, then commencing 
on right of the host pass to the left side of the guest 
the crown of lamb, filled with peas, and continue imtil 
all are served. Serve mint sauce in sauce-boat with 
ladle on a tray. Pass to the left of each in order begin- 
ning with the guest first served to lamb. Serve stuflfed 
eggplant in same manner. I^ow, if needed, pass bread 
or rolls to the left, for each to help himself, and fill the 
glasses with water. Punch is frequently served with the 
roast rather than a course by itself. When served by 
itself in perfect service, the fork or spoon with which it 



TO SERVE AFTERNOON TEA. 33 

this and other cups of tea or bouillon as desired. In 
the meantime she keeps a sharp lookout and removes 
cups or replenishes them with tea as is needed. Or, 
she passes cream and sugar or slices of lemon^ and brings 
in a fresh supply of tea or slices of lemon. 



HOW TO SERVE FRUIT 



CHAPTER VI. 

SERVING OP FBUIT 

The preparation of uncooked fruit for the table ia 
usually classed with the duties of a butler, and this 
is one of the things which a waitress is liable to be 
called upon to do. 

Choice strawberries that do not require washing, 
but simply a gentle wiping with a soft brush, should be 
left unhuUed. Small fruits and berries are injured 
by keeping in the refrigerator, and if on hand the 
night before, for service at breakfast, should be kept 
in a large open dish, that fresh air may circulate about 
the fruit. To prepare berries for the table, handle as 
lightly as possible. While looking them over, do not 
hold two or three in the hand at one time. Look at each 
one singly and set it aside. To free from sand, let water 
from the faucet run through the berries in a colander; 
let stand to drain, and serve at once. Wash all va- 
rieties of berries after hulling or looking over; they 
cannot be handled after being wet. Finger-bowls are 
passed after a service of fruit 

AN ABTISTIO WAT TO SERVE STRAWBERRIES 

Pack pulverized sugar in a sherry glass or cone shaped 
mould. Place sugar in the centre of a small plate 
around which put unhuUed strawberries with stems 
uppermost. 



36 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

PREPARING GRAPE FRUIT FOR BREAKFAST 

Cut the grape fruit in halves across the grain, to 
form two portions. With a thin, sharp-pointed knife, 
— ^a penknife is the best, — cut around the pulp in 
each little section of the fruit, so that each triangular 
section of pulp can be freed from the surrounding mem- 
brane, and lifted out with an orange spoon or fork. 
Also cut the membrane, separating the sections and the 
core from the skin, and remove all the membrane and 
core in one piece. Set the halves of fruit on plates. A 
spoonful of powdered sugar is placed in the centre, or no 
addition is made to the fruit, according to the taste of 
those served. When served for luncheon a spoonful of 
powdered sugar, and sherry wine or Jamaica rum, is 
placed in the centre. 

GRAPE FRUIT, WITH MAOBDOINE OF FRUIT, FOR A FIRST 
COURSE AT LUNCHEON 

Prepare grape-fruit by using a spoonful of powdered 
sugar, and sherry or Jamaica rum, then for each half 
of grape-fruit have ready about a tablespoonful of 
prepared fruit. A mixture of pineapple, orange, and 
maraschino cherries is good. Brandied peaches may 
be used, when at hand, as also fresh white grapes, 
seeded and skinned. Mix the fruit, cut in small pieces, 
with liquid from the cherry bottle, sugar, or sugar syrup, 
and use to fill the open place in the centre. Decorate 
wth maraschino cherries cut in quarters. For a change, 
omit the macedoine, and, just at serving, put a table- 
spoonful of sifted powdered sugar in the centre of 
each half fruit, and decorate with pieces of cherry, as 
before. Orape-fruit is also used as a salad with let- 
tuce and French dressing. 



HOW TO SERVE FRUIT. 37 

SALPICON OF FRUIT, WALDORF-ASTORIA STYLE 

Make such a selection of fruits as is desired. Tri- 
angular pieces of pulp cut from halves of grape-fruit, 
maraschino cherries, bits of pineapple, fresh straw- 
berries cut in halves, brandied peaches, cut in pieces, 
orange pulp, and slices of bananna afford a choice. 
Chill thoroughly, then sprinkle lightly with sugar, and 
place in grape-fruit glasses, set in larger glasses (on 
tall steins) filled with shaved ice. Serve as a first 
course at dinner or luncheon. These furnish a par- 
ticularly pretty table decoration. 

The pulp and juice of grape-fruit daintily taken 
from the shell, that each piece may be in perfect shape, 
are often served in sherbet glasses, either with or with- 
out powdered sugar, as a first course at luncheon or 
dinner. For variation, a tablespoonful of sherry or two 
maraschino cherries with a little of the syrup from the 
cherry bottle may be added. 



SERVING WATERMELON WITHOUT RIND 

Let the melon stand on ice several hours before ser- 
ving; have the plates chilled also. Secure a section 
about four inches thick from the centre of the melon 
by cutting off from both ends. To serve more than 
eight, cut the melon, to give two sections of this thick- 
ness; cut these sections, to leave the green portion in 
one piece and the edible portion — a round of pink mel- 
on pulp — in another. Place the edible portion on a 
dish of ample size. To serve this, cut it in triangles 
in the same maimer as a pie. 



38 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

OTHER WAYS OF SERVING WATERMELON 

Cut the melon in halves, crosswise. If it is to be 
served from the table, trim, if needed, that the half 
melon may stand firm on the plate, and dispose a 
few currant or grape leaves around it. To serve, 
with a tablespoon scoop out the pulp in egg-shaped 
pieces. Or, cut the melon in halves lengthwise. Scoop 
out the pulp from both halves in egg-shaped pieces, 
and use to fill one half the melon-rind. Garnish the 
plate with green leaves. The pink pulp of the chill- 
ed melon may also be taken out with a French potato- 
ball scoop in the shape of balls. Serve these in sher- 
bet cups. Melon should always be thoroughly chilled- 

SERVING MUSKMELONS 

Have the melons thoroughly chilled. Wash the out- 
side, wipe dry, cut in halves, and remove the seeds and 
stringy portion. Set the half melons on small plates 
covered with paper doilies. Pass sugar, salt, pepper, or 
cinnamon, as is desired. Bits of ice are occasionally 
placed in the hollow centre of the melon, but these are 
in the way during eating, and also detract from the 
flavor of the melon. 

MISCELLANEOUS FRUITS 

In serving peaches, pears, apples and banannas, silver 
fruit knives and forks should always be placed on the 
fruit plates, so that the fruit may be divided and the 
forks used to carry it to the mouth. With grapes 
(especially hothouse grapes) grape scissors should al- 
ways be passed. 



CANAPES AND HORS D'OEUVRES. 



CHAPTER VII 

CAVIAR CANAPE. 

Mrs, W. H. Heppenheimer 

Cut with a biscuit cutter^ from stale breads six pieces 
of bread, toast it on one side. ' Mix a medium size jar 
of Bussian caviar with two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 
Spread it on the toast. Press separately through a sieve 
the yolk and whites of two hard boiled eggs. On edge 
of toast place a border of chopped parsley, then a row of 
the white of eggs, then row of the yolk of egg. Serve 
on canap6 plates. 

CAVIAR TOAST. 

Mrs. William Cook. 

Mix one egg and a cup of milk together and beat un- 
til light. Take medium thick slices of bakers' bread, 
dip in milk and egg and fry until a golden brown. Put 
on plate and spread with Bussian caviar. Sprinkle a few 
drops of lemon juice on each and serve while hot 

DELICIOUS APPETIZERS. 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 

Two rounds of rye bread measuring five inches across. 
Whip rich cream until very stiff and add English mus- 
tard until the cream is of a golden color and sufficiently 



40 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

flavored. Spread this an inch thick on bread, cover 
with finely chopped ham. Place a pitted olive in center 
and keep cold till served. 

PATE PK FOIS CANAPES. 

Mrs. 8* J' Brown, Tarrytown, N, T. 

For six people cut six rounds of stale bread not more 
than two and a half inches in diameter. Toast the 
bread on one side. Make a mixture of a medium size 
jar of "Pat de Fois Gras/* one teaspoonful of chopped 
gherkins^ one teaspoonful of Spanish peppers, one half 
teaspoonful of olives or chopped Spanish onion, one- 
half teaspoonful of lemon juice. Spread this mixture 
on the rounds of toast. Sprinkle over the tops chopped 
Spanish peppers. Place these on small plates with a 
row of chopped green peppers around edge of toast. 

BROILED SARDINE CANAPES. 

Mrs. C. A. Oould, New York. 

Take six oblong pieces of toast the size of boneless 
sardines. Broil two sardines for each piece of toast. 
Squeeze a little lemon juice over sardines, garnish with 
small pieces of lemon ojid parsley Serve. 

CANAPE A LA PRINCE. 

Mrs. James Wright, New York. 

Take six fillets of anchovy, one head of white celery 
and two truffles. Gut in small pieces the size of a pea. 
Put them into a bowl and mix with a sauce made as fol- 
lows : The yolks of two hard boiled eggs, passed through 



CANAPES AND HORS D'OEUVRES. 41 

fine sieve^ one teaspoonful of finely chopped chives^ a 
few capers, one-fourth teaspoonfol of mustard, yolk of 
one raw egg. Add one tablespoonful of salad oil, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Rub through a seive. Place this 
mixture on small white lettuce leaves and serve as an 
appetizer. 

OYSTER CANAPES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

For six canapte, boil eighteen oysters until thorough- 
ly cooked^ chopped in small pieces. Add one tea- 
spoonful of chopped Spanish peppers^ one teaspoonful of 
diopped green peppers, two tablespoonfuls of diopped 
celery. Mix this thoroughly with mayonnaise dressing. 
Place on round pieces of stale bread with a nest of may- 
onnaise in center. Put a small pimola in center of this 
and a border around the edge of chopped Spanish pep- 
pers. 

TOMATORi WITH ANCHOVIES. 

Mrs. Oeorge Park, Rye, N. Y. 

Select six well-formed tomatoes Cut from top of 
stem side an opening, remove about one-fourth of toma- 
to, fill this opening with anchovy paste mixed with to- 
mato taken from top, form in cone shape the anchovy 
paste. Over this sprinkle the yolk of hard boiled egg, 
pressed through a sieve. Serve on small plates with 
parsley around bottom of tomato. 

SARDINES WITH EGOS. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's French Chef. 
Boil eggs hard, chop whites and yolks separately, add 



42 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

a little parsley chopped fine^ season and mix all together, 
put yolks in center of dish, then whites around them, 
split sardines in half, take out bones, and place around 
chopped eggs. Garnish with lemon and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve cold. 

HOBS D'oEUVEBES OF HERRINGS. 

Mrs. C. A. Oovld's French Chef. 

Clean salt herring free of skin and bones, cut into fil- 
lets according to size wished. Take long, covered dish, 
put onion at bottom, add the herring. Add bay leaf, 
thyme, cloves, then repeat and have onion on top. Cover 
with salad oil, add one tablespoon of vinegar, shake 
well to mix the vinegar. It is ready in forty-eight hours. 
Cover with the lid. Serve in as small hors d^oeuveres 
on toast. 

SARDINE CANAPES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Cut six pieces of bre^d with small biscuit cutter, toast 
on one side; take twelve boneless sardines, skin and 
mash with a silver fork. Add one teaspoonful of 
ehoppd Spanish peppers, one tablespoonful of chopped 
gieen peppers, tablespoonful of onion juice, tablespoon- 
ful chopped queen olives, tablespoonful lemon juice. 
Mix thoroughly to a paste with oil from sardines. 
Spread on toast. Press separately through sieve the 
yolk and white of two hard boiled eggs, sprinkle each 
irregularly over sardines. Add border of chopped pars- 
ley around edge of toast. Serve on small plates. 



CANAPES AND HORS D'OEUVRES. 43 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Mrs. F. D. Oray. 

Select firm, solid fruit, cut in half, roundwise, re- 
move juice and pulp, place it in a bowl, add a few 
white or Malaga grapes cut in small pieces, a little 
shredded pineapple, some banana, out thin and in 
dice. Sweeten to taste, mix with sherry. Remove 
from shell of grape fruit the center and all segments. 
Place the above mixture in grape fruit shells, decorate 
with maraschino or cr6me de menthe cherries. 

TOMATO FLOWERS. 

Atlanta, Georgia. 

Select small, well-shaped tomatoes, peel and put on 
ice until chilled Cut, beginning at top, five-pointed 
flower-like petals, leaving a straight piece of the tomato 
in center, diaped like yellow center of calla lily. Pass 
the yolks and whites of two hard boiled eggs through 
seive and place some of the white of egg around bottom 
of tomato center, then add powdered yolks of egg. On top 
of tomato center place stiff mayonnaise and in center 
of this place a piece of Russian caviar. On point of each 
petal place stiff mayonnaise, with small piece of Rus- 
sian caviar in center. Put tomato on small lettuce leaf 
en plates and serve cold. 

TOMATO CAVIAR. 

Miss Harper, New York. 

A delightful cold relish to begin a summer dinner is 
a canape of caviare, tomato and mayonnaise. The foun- 
dation is a slice of not too fresh bread cut out with a 



44 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

round cutter. On this is spread a generous layer of 
caviare, and this in turn is surmounted by a thin slice 
of tomato spread with stiflf mayonnaise. The tomato, 
which can stand almost any amount of salt, deliciously 
balances the salty flavor of the caviare. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Miss i\r. Hellerman, 

Take two ripe pineapples, peeled and flaked from the 
core with silver fork, on small bottle of maraschine 
cherries, six oranges, peeled and cut in small pieces, 
two grape fruit peeled and cut, a box of strawberries 
or any other small fruit and six bananas, cut in small 
pieces. Two cups of sugar with enough water to cover, 
put in a saucepan and allow to boil until thick. When 
cold pour syrup over truit and add a glass of Jamaica 
lum last. Set on ice to cool. Serve in small glasses. 
To keep bananas from turning dark, do not cut with 
other fruit, but put in just before serving. 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Miss Evarts, Elizabeth, N, J. 

Cut the fruit in halves. Take out the core, loosen 
the pulp from the sides. Fill the center with a small 
heap of scraped maple sugar, which gives a delicious 
flavor. Place a brandied cherry in the center of maple 
sugar. The hollow center of grape fruit may be filled 
with Malaga grapes, cut in half, and seeds removed, 
sweetened with sugar and sherry. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SOUPS 

Soups are divided into two great classes : Soups with 
stock; soups without stock. 

Soups with stock have^ for their basis^ beef, veal, 
mutton, fish, poultry, or game, separately or in com- 
bination. They are classified as: 

BauUlon, made from lean beef, delicately seasoned, 
and usually cleared. Exception, — clam bouillon. 

Brown Soup Stock, made from beef (two-thirds lean 
meat, and remainder bone and fat), highly seasoned 
with vegetables, spices, and sweet herbs. 

White Soup Stock, made from chicken or veal, with 
delicate seasonings. 

Consomme, usually made from two or three kinds of 
meat (beef, veal, and fowl being employed), highly sea- 
soned with vegetables, spices and sweet herbs. Always 
served clear. 

Lamh Stock, delicately seasoned, is served as mutton 
broth. 

Soups without stock are classified as : 

Cream Soups, made of vegetables or fish, with milk, 
and a small amount of cream and seasonings. Always 
thickened. 

Purees, made from vegetables or fish, forced through 
a strainer^ and retained in soup, milk, and seasonings. 



48 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

may be used if perfectly smooth. A saw, cleaver, and 
scales, although not necessary, are useful, and lighten 
labor. 

When meat comes from market, remove from paper 
and put in cool place. When ready to start stock, if 
scales are at hand, weigh meat and bone to see if cor- 
rect proportions have been sent. Wipe meat with clean 
cheese cloth, wrung out of cold water. Cut lean meat 
in one-inch cubes; by so doing, a large amount of sur- 
face is exposed to the water, and juices are more easily 
drawn out. Heat frying-pan hissing hot; remove mar- 
row from marrow-bone, and use enough to brown one- 
third of the lean meat, stirring constantly, that all 
parts of surface may be seared, thus preventing escape 
of juices, — sacrificing a certain amount of goodness 
in the stock, to give additional color and flavor, which 
is obtained by carmelization. Put fat, bone, and re- 
maining lean meat in soup kettle, cover with cold water, 
allowing one pint to each pound of meat, bone and fat. 
Let stand one hour, that cold water may draw out juices 
from meat. Add browned meat, taking water from soup 
kettle to rinse out frying-pan, that none of the coloring 
may be lost. Heat gradually to a boiling point, and cook 
six or seven hours at low temperature. A scum will rise 
on the top, which contains coagulated albuminous juices ; 
these give to the soup its chief nutritive value; many, 
however, prefer a clear soup, and have them removed. 
If allowed to remain, when straining, a large part will 
pass through the strainer. Vegetables, spices, and salt 
should be added the last hour of cooking. Strain and 
cool quickly; by so doing stock is less apt to ferment. 
A knuckle of veal is often used for making white soup 
stock. Fowl should be used for stock in preference to 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 49 

chicken^ as it is cheaper^ and contains a large amount 
of nutriment. A cake of fat forms on stock when cold, 
which excludes air, and should not be removed until 
stock is used. To remove fat, run a knife around edge 
of bowl and carefully remove the same. A small quan- 
tity will remain, which should be removed by passing 
a cloth wrung out of hot water around edge and over 
top of stock. This fat should be clarified and used for 
drippings. If time cannot be allowed for stock to cool 
before using take off as much fat as possible with a 
spoon, and remove the remainder by passing tissue or 
any absorbent paper over the surface. 

HOW TO CLEAR SOUP STOOK 

Whites of eggs slightly beaten, or raw, lean beef 
finely chopped, are employed for clearing soup stock. 
The albumen found in each affects the clearing by draw- 
ing to itself some of the juices which have been ex- 
tracted from the meat, and by action of heat have been 
coagulated. Some rise to the top and form a scum, 
others are precipitated. 

Remove fat from stock, and put quantity to be cleared 
in stew-pan, allowing white and shell of one egg to 
each quart of stock. Beat egg slightly, break shell in 
small pieces and add to stock. Place on front of range, 
and stir constantly until boiling point is reached: boil 
two minutes. Set back where it may simmer twenty 
minutes ; remove scum, and strain through double thick- 
ness of cheese-cloth placed over a fine strainer. If 
stock to be cleared is not sufficiently seasoned, addi- 
tional seasoning must be added as soon as stock has 
lost its jelly-like consistency; not after re-clearing is 



50 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

affected. Many think the flavor obtained from a few 
shavings of lemon rind an agreeable addition. 

HOW TO BIND SOUPS 

Cream soups and pnre^^ if allowed to standi sepa- 
rate, unless bound together. To bind a soup, melt but- 
ter, and when bubbling add an equal quantity of flour; 
when well mixed add to boiling soup, stir constantly. 
If recipe calls for more flour than butter, or soup is one 
to become cold, remove grease, reheat. Add noodles, 
portion of hot mixture to butter and flour until of such 
consistency that it may be poured into the mixture re- 
maining in double boiler. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Mrs, T K. Egbert, New York. 
Three pounds plate, two marrow-bones, one good sized 
sliced onion, add salt to taste, put on in cold water, 
let it simmer for six hours, take from stove, allow it 
to become cold, remove grease, reheat, add noodles, 
made from one egg, a little salt, one-half egg shell 
full of ice water, sifted flour enough to roll out very 
thin, cut in ribbons, and put in soup, simmer until 
noodles are cooked, cut some of the soup meat in dice, 
and serve with soup. 

OHIOKEN GUMBO SOUP 

Mrs. W. S. Gould, New York. 

Cut two medium sized onions in slices, and fry them 

brown in a deep sauce-pan with two tablespoonfuls of 

butter, fry with the onions a slice of ham cut in dice, 

cut a good sized roasting chicken, as for fricassee, 



HOW to MAKE SOUPS. 51 

dredge the pieces well with flour, and put them in 
the soup kettle. When the onions are brown let the 
chicken brown well on both sides. While the chicken 
is cooking wash a dozen and a half pods of okra in cold 
water, cut them in thin slices and add them to the 
chicken in the kettle. Next cut a green pepper in slices, 
also peel and slice five or six large tomatoes, and put 
them in the ketlj^e, season well with salt, and add three 
quarts of cold ^ater. Keep the kettle covered closely 
and let all simmer for hours. If the water in that time 
has boiled away to less than two quarts add some from 
the tea kettle. At the end of four hours strain and 
serve the soup. This should be about two quarts. 

CHICKEN a LA REINE. 

Mrs. E. F. C Young. 

Heat contents of one quart can of Franco American 
chicken bouillon, or soup. Add one pint of cream or 
milk and one tablespoonful of corn-starch blended with 
milk and made perfectly smooth. Stir slowly in hot soup, 
until the proper consistency. Season to taste. Take 
the yolks of two well beaten eggs, season with salt, 
add sufficient flour to thicken, so the mixture will be 
stiff enough to make into balls the size of hickory nuts, 
let these simmer in soup a few minutes. When serving, 
place two or three egg balls in each portion of soup. 

HOW TO SERVE FBANCO-AMEBICAN SOUP. 

Mrs. H. E. Neise. 

Heat one can of Franco-American soup in saucepan, 
add two scant tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well with 



52 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

half a cup of milk, add this to the soup, stirring all the 
time to prevent the flour from getting into lumps. As 
the soup thickens to a pur6e, take it off the fire. After 
it is in the tureen add one cup of whipped cream. To 
to this add, or serve separately, the croutons of toast. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Mrs. Charles C. Thomas. 

One bunch of asparagus, one pint of milk, one-half 
onion, one tablespoonful, each, of butter and flour, 
salt and pepper to taste. Cut the heads from the aspara- 
gus and cook for twenty minutes in boiling salted 
water, cook the stalks and onion in one pint of water 
for twenty minutes. Put this through a sieve, blend 
butter and flour, add one pint of boiling milk, pepper 
and salt, mix with the cooked asparagus, and boil for 
five minutes. Strain again, add the asparagus heads, 
and serve. 

QREEN GUMBO SOUP. 

Miss Hinds. 

Three pounds of beef, two quarts of gumbo, six 
large tomatoes cr one quart can, two large onions, 
two slices of cooked ham, add a little sugar to the 
tomatoes, pepper and salt to season. For winter use 
one pint of dry gumbo soaked one night in one gallon 
of water. Cook slowly for four hours. 

CORN SOUP. 

Miss Hellerman. 
One can of corn drained and chopped fine, one pint 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 53 

of milk, one quart of boiling water, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter rolled in one of flour, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Put com over 
fire in boiling water and cook one hour, work through 
a colander, return to pot with sugar, pepper and salt, 
stir in floured butter, have milk scalded, and add 
gradually to beaien eggs. When butter is melted stir 
eggs and milk into soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Miss Munsen, Rye, N Y, 

One can tomatoes, three pints water, 3-4 cup of oat- 
meal, onion chopped,, celery or parsley, tablespoonful 
sugar, salt and pepper, boil three-quarters of an hour, 
add one-half teaspoonful soda, strain, then add table- 
spoonful butter, boil up once and serve. 

POT-AU-FEU SOUP. 

Mrs. Seely, New York, 

For a large pot-au-feu take aix pounds of good fresh 
beef, cut it up and pour on it four quarts of fresh 
cold water, set it over the fire, skim it when it simmers, 
and after it has come to a boil add a teaspoon of salt, 
some pepper, and half a pound of liver cut in pieces. 
Then add two or three large carrots, either sliced or 
grated, four turnips pared and quartered, eight young 
onions peeled and sliced in thin slices, two of the 
onions roasted whole, a head of celery cut up, a par- 
snip well cut up, six potatoes hand-sliced and quartered, 
tomatoes in season, and in short any appetizing vege- 
table. A bunch of sweet herbs cut small and absorbed 



54 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

by the dish or boiled and removed on serving also 
adds much to the savory compound. 

Let the whole continue to boil slowly and steadily 
for six hours. Serve by laying slices of bread in a 
tureen or deep platter, pour the stew on soup upon thein^ 
including not only the broth but the meat and vege- 
tables. What is left in the tureen may go into the 
pot-au-feu for the next day. Grated Parmesan cheese 
should be served with this soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Oeo. Wilkinson. 

Put a quart can of tomatoes through a sieve, put 
into tomatoes two cups of milk, put on stove, keep 
stirring until it comes to a boil, add a tablespoonful 
of butter, season with salt and pepper to taste. Take 
a heaping tablcopoonful of flour and mix well with 
one-half cup of milk, add to tomatoes and stir until 
thickens. Pour into tureen and add a large cupful 
of whipped cream. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Mrs. Powers, Rye, N. Y. 

To one quart clear brown soup stock, add one- 
fourth cup each carrot and turnip, cut in thin strips 
one and one-half inches long, previously cooked in 
boiling salted water, and two tablespoons each cooked 
peas and string beans. Heat to boiling point. 

CREAM OF CELEBY SOUP. 

Miss Parloa. 
One pint of milk, one tablespoonlul of butter, one 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 55 

bead of celery, a large slice of onion; boil celery in 
one pint of water from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
boil onion and milk together; mix flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold milk and add to boiling milk; 
cook ten minutefe. Mash celery in the water in which 
it has been cooked and stir into the boiling milk. Add 
butter, salt and pepper to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately. A cupful of whipped cream added when the 
soup is in the tureen is an improvment. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. J. A. Dear. 

One quart tomatops (or can), one onion with six 
cloves stuck in, one quart of boiling water. Put the 
above over to boil, and when boiling hot, strain and 
pour it over one heaping tablespoonful butter mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful salt 
and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, to which has 
been added one cup of boiling milk, before putting in 
tomatoes. 

PRINCESS SOUP. 

Miss Bedford, New York. 

Peel and slice one large Spanish onion or two small 
ones. Cook slowly in two tablespoonsfuls of butter for 
ten minutes; do not allow them to color. Add one 
quart of chicken stock and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour blended with 
cold water, add seasoning to taste, simmer for five 
minutes longer, strain and return to fire. Add two 
canned Spanish peppers cut in tiny diamonds, keep 
hot for five minutes, add one cupful of hot cream 
and serve. 



56 KIRMESS COOK BQOK. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Soak two cupfuls of black beans over night in three 
quarts of cold water,then put beans into a kettle with two 
quarts of water and two pounds of salt pork (or a ham 
bone if you have it, otiierwise it may be omitted), 
three cloves. Let it simmer four or five hours or un- 
til the beans are perfectly soft (add more boiling 
water* from time to time if necessary) then pass 
through a sieve. Put in slice of lemon and grate the 
yolk of a couple of hard boiled eggs, mixing with white 
of egg, making egg balls, and add sherry wine to taste 
(if liked) in the soup. 

DU BARRY SOUP. 

Mrs. Charles C. Thomas. . 
Boil one cup of rice in two quarts of clear chicken 
bouillon, rub through sieve and add one cup of cold 
cauliflower pressed through a potato ricer, season with 
white pepper and salt, add a pint of cream, and bring 
to a boil. Serve in bouillon cups, garnish with small 
pieces of cauliflower. 

SWISS RIOE SOUP. 

"Table Talk/' 

Wash thoroughly one-half of a cupful of rice, put 
in a kettle with two quarts of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, a tiny bit of mace, 
a sprig of parsley and a scant teaspoonful of salt, and 
boil slowly until the rice is pulpy. Bub through a 
sieve, and reheat to the boiling point. Add one table- 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 67 

spoonful of flour blended with a little cold milk; stir 
until thickened. Add pepper to taste, more salt, if 
needed, and simmer for five minutes. Beat two eggs, 
add one-half of a cupful of good cream. Draw the 
kettle to the side of the fire and pour this in slowly, 
stirring well; sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Swiss cheese and take immediately from fhe fire. As 
served drop a pinch of chopped parsley over each 
plateful. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Miss Hellerman. 

To two cups of split green peas add two quarts of 
water and boil. Strain through strainer, put back in 
pot with two or three slices of bacon. When ready to 
serve thicken with a cup of flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with water, salt and pepper to taste. When 
the flavor of bacon is not liked use about a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter in its place. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Miss Parloa, 

One »^art of milk, six large potatoes, one blade of 
celery, an onion and a tablespoonful of butter; put 
milk on to boil with onion and celery. Pare pota- 
toes and boil half an hour; turn oflE the water and 
mash fine and light. Add boiling milk and butter. 
Pepper and salt to taste; rub through a strainer and 
serve immediately. A cupful of whipped cream added 
when in the tureen is a great improvement. This 
soup must not be allowed to stand even if kept hot. 



58 KIRMESS COOK BOOK, 

SALMON BISQUE. 

Mrs. Charles C. Thomas. 

Drain the oil from one-half can of salmon, remove 
the bones and skin and rub through a sieve. Add 
gradually one quart of scalded milk, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and two of butter rubbed to a paste. 

ORSAIC OF ONION BOUP. 

Miss Bedford, New York. 

Cream of onion soup is highly esteemed, especially 
in France, as a nerve tonic and restorative. To make 
it to perfection slice sufficient white onions to measure 
one cupful and a half. Heat two tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a large pan, add the onions and cook slowly, 
shaking now and then, until the onions are very ten- 
der but hardly beginning to color. Sprinkle over 
them two table&poonfuls of flour and stir xmtil ab- 
sorbed. Add gradually one quart of hot milk, stirring 
that it may thicken evenly. When at the boiling point 
draw to one side, season and simmer for ten minutes, 
then rub through a sieve pressing as much pulp through 
as possible. Beturn to the fire until piping hot and 
serve at once. 

OLD FASHIONED BEEF SOUP. 

''Table Talk/' 

Select four or five pounds of lean beef shoulder, 
cross rib or under roimd — ^in one large square piece 
and order with it a marrow-bone. Wash meat and 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 59 

bone, place in a kettle, cover with five quarts of cold 
water and let stand on the table for at least an hour. 
Five hours before the soup is to be served, place on the 
fire, cover and heat slowly to the boiling point, boil 
hard for a moment, then draw back where it will sim- 
mer slowly but steadily. Scrape and thinly slice suffli- 
cient carrots to measure one pint, scrape and grate car- 
rots to measure one cupful and a half — ^the deeper red 
they are the better. Trim, wash and thinly slice six 
large leeks or chop white onions to measure a half pint 
Wash, cut into four-inch lengths and tie together sev- 
eral stalks of celery — green tops will do. Wash and 
drain a half cupful of rice and cut fine one tablespoonful 
of parsley. In two hours add to the kettle the sliced 
carrots, rice and one tablespoonful of salt. An hour 
later add everything but the parsley which goes in five 
minutes before serving. Season when the last ingredi- 
ents have been added. Stir frequently to prevent the 
rice sticking to the bottom of the kettle. This soup will 
bear reheating and is, almost better on the second day 
than on the first Dumplings are frequently served 
with this soup with meat Cut in dice. Mix together a 
pint of fiour, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt> and one 
large teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir to a soft 
dough with sweet milk, roll out an inch thick and cut 
in small biscuits. Dip into a shallow wide kettle a por- 
tion of the soup, pouring it through a strainer and re- 
turning the rice and vegetables to the large kettle. 
Bring the clear soup to a sharp boil and drop in the 
dumplings. Cover and move the kettle to a point 
where it will keep boiling but not too violently. Do 
not uncover for from fifteen to twenty minutes accord- 
ing to the size of the dumplings. Then skim them out 



60 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

to a hot serving dish and return the soup to the large 
kettle. 

OUkM ^gQUE SOUP, 



CORRECTIONS. 



tm -.=» 



aafc. •.^»«*'««>«M««^««*^ 



ilf r«. Jofcn /. Toffey. 
Seventy-five small clams, one quart of milk, one-half 
cup of butter, three potatoes, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, two large tablespoons of flour, salt and pepper. 
Chop clams very fine, put in a colander to drain, 
chop potatoes rather fine, put them on to boil with the 
milk in a double boiler. Rub fiour and butter together 
until creamy, and when milk and potatoes have been 
boiling fifteen minutes stir in fiour and butter, cook 
eight minutes more, add parsley, salt and pepper, also 
the liquor from the dams, that has been heated and 
skimmed, cook three minutes more, then add the clams 
and serve. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 61 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

One quart of oysters thoroughly drained of liquor. 
Place liquor in stew pan, adding one pint of hot water, 
bring to a boil, skim well, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and one heaping tablespoonful of butter. Add oysters, 
let them simmer until edges curl, serve. 

One quart of milk brought to a boil may be added 
instead of water, before liquor has been seasoned^ bring 
to a simmer before adding oysters. 

To make oyster soup in perfection cream and milk 
should be used in equal parts. Heat this slowly while 
twenty-five oysters are washed and drained and their 
juice strained, boiled, and skimmed. When the cream 
steams, salt, cayenne, and oyster juice are added to it, 
the oysters dropped in, and the kettle covered until it 
steams again but does not boil. 

PEPPEB POT. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

One knuckle of veal, one pound of plain tripe, one 
pound of honeycomb tripe, bunch of pot herbs, one- 
onion, cne-quarter pound of suet, two medium sized 
potatoes, one bay leaf, three quarts of cold water, two 
tablespoonf uls of butter, two tablespoonf uls of flour, salt 
and cayenne to taste. Wash thfe tripe well in cold water. 
Put it in a kettle, cover it with cold water and boil eight 
hours. This should be cooked the day before you want 
the soup. Wipe the knuckle with a damp towel, put it in 
a soup kettle, cover with the water, place it on the fire, 
and bring slowly to a simmer, carefully skimming ofE 



60 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

to a hot serving dish and return the soup to the large 
kettle. 

CLAM BISQUE SOUP, 

Miss Emma Jube, Newark, N. J. 

Thirty six soft clams, one quart milk, one pint of 
liquor and water, piece of butter size of an egg, about 
three tablespoons of flour, one egg, place milk in 
double boiler. 

Wash clams very clean, then chop very fine; add the 
liquor and water and boil about ten minutes; add 
the hot milk in whicn the lump of butter was melted, 
and season with salt and pepper; mix the flour with 
water enough to make smooth, and add to the soup untD 
it is of the consistency of cream ; boil this till the flour 
in cooked, no longer, or the milk may curdle, and then 
beat one egg very light and pour in tureen, and pour 
the clam bisque over and stir; this is enough for eight 
people. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Mrs. John J. Toffey. 
Seventy-five small clams, one quart of milk, one-half 
cup of butter, three potatoes, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, two large tablespoons of flour, salt and pepper. 
Chop clams very fine, put in a colander to drain, 
chop potatoes rather fine, put them on to boil with the 
milk in a double boiler. Rub fiour and butter together 
until creamy, and when milk and potatoes have been 
boiling fifteen minutes stir in fiour and butter, cook 
eight minutes more, add parsley, salt and pepper, also 
the liquor from the dams, that has been heated and 
skimmed, cook three minutes more, then add the clams 
and serve. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 61 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
)ne quart of oysters^ thoroughl y drained of liquor. 



PEPPEB POT. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

One knuckle cf veal, one pound of plain tripe, one 
pound of honeycomb tripe, bunch of pot herbs, one. 
onion, cne-quarter pound of suet, two medium sized 
potatoes, one bay leaf, three quarts of cold water, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonf uls of flour, salt 
and cayenne to taste. Wash the tripe well in cold water. 
Put it in a kettle, cover it with cold water and boil eight 
hours. This should be cooked the day before you want 
the soup. Wipe the knuckle with a damp towel, put it in 
a soup kettle, cover with the water, place it on the fire, 
and bring slowly to a simmer, carefully skimming o£E 



60 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

to a hot serving dish and return the soup to the large 
kettle. 

CLAM BISQUE SOUP, 



CX)RRECTIONS. 



Paice 53— Tomato Soup, by Mias Hunsell. not Munsen. 

Page 60— Clam Soup, by Bilss Jube. Newark, ahould read fifty soft clamA 
or three pints of ordinary clams, in place of thlrty-slx soft clams. 

Page 61 —Oyster Soup, by Mrs. Gray, ahould read one-half pint of hot water 
or one pint of milk, in place of one pint and one quart. 



CLAM SOUP. 

Mrs. John J- Toffey. 
Seventy-five small clams, one quart of milk, one-half 
cup of butter, three potatoes, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, two large tablespoons of flour, salt and pepper. 
Chop clams very fine, put in a colander to drain, 
chop potatoes rather fine, put them on to boil with the 
milk in a double boiler. Rub fiour and butter together 
until creamy, and when milk and potatoes have been 
boiling fifteen minutes stir in fiour and butter, cook 
eight minutes more, add parsley, salt and pepper, also 
the liquor from the clams, tliat has been heated and 
skimmed, cook tliree minutes more, then add the clams 
and serve. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 61 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs, F. D. Gray. 

One quart of oysters thoroughly drained of liquor. 
Place liquor in stew pan, adding one pint of hot water, 
bring to a boil, skim well, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and one heaping tablespoonful of butter. Add oysters, 
let them simmer until edges curl, serve. 

One quart of milk brought to a boil may be added 
instead of water, before liquor has been seasoned^ bring 
to a simmer before adding oysters. 

To make oyster soup in perfection cream and milk 
should be used in equal parts. Heat this slowly while 
twenty-five oysters are washed and drained and their 
juice strained, boiled, and skimmed. When the cream 
steams, salt, cayenne, and oyster juice are added to it, 
the oysteris dropped in, and the kettle covered until it 
steams again but does not boil. 

PEPPEK POT. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

One knuckle of veal, one pound of plain tripe, one 
pound of honeycomb tripe, bunch of pot herbs, one. 
onion, cne-quarter pound of suet, two medium sized 
potatoes, one bay leaf, three quarts of cold water, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonf uls of flour, salt 
and cayenne to taste. Wash the tripe well in cold water. 
Put it in a kettle, cover it with cold water and boil eight 
hours. This should be cooked the day before you want 
the soup. Wipe the knuckle with a damp towel, put it in 
a soup kettle, cover with the water, place it on the fire, 
and bring slowly to a simmer, carefully skimming ofE 



62 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

tlie scum. Simmer gently for three hours, then strain 
and return soup to the kettle. Wash the pot herbs, chop 
the parsley, rub ofiE the thyme leaves, and cut only half 
the red. pepper. Gut the potatoes into duce, add all 
these and the bay leaf to the soup. Cut the tripe into 
pieces, one inch square. Cut the meat from the knuckle 
into small pieces, add these also to the soup, place it 
on the fire and when at boiling point season with the 
salt and cayenne. Bub the butter and flour together, 
and stit into the boiling soup, and the fifty small dump- 
lings made as follows: — Chop the suet fine, measure 
it and take double the quantity of flour, one-quarter of 
teaspoonful of salt, mix well together, moisten with 
ice water (about a quarter of a cup), form into tiny 
dumplings about the size of a marble, throw into the 
soup, simmer for fifteen minutes and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Mrs, Goodwin, Chicago, III. 

Take lack of cold turkey, break into pieces, removing 
stuflSng, place the bones in soup pot with two quarts of 
cold water, add salt and pepper, bring slowly to a boil, 
simmer for two hours, strain, return to stove, add one 
cup of milk, a half of can of sweet corn, cut small quan- 
tity of cold turkey in dice, put in soup, serve. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Put one pint of white beans (scarlet runners) in one 
quart of cold water and boil five minutes. Pour oflf boil- 
ing water and put beans in cold water until skins burst, 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 68 

then place beans in two quarts of cold water with one- 
quarter pound of blanched pork^ simmer till beans are 
very sof t> add salt and pepper to taste. When beans are 
soft strain through a sieve^ place on stove again and 
add one pint of milk, let it boil up before removing from 
stove. Serve with bread cut in dice and browned in 
oven. 

Blanch pork before using by putting in boiling hot 
water for five minutes, then in very cold water. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 

Twenty-five large clams, one quart tomatoes, three 
or four large onions, one-half pound salt pork, three 
medium sized potatoes cut fine. Brown pork, and chop 
fine. Place in kettle with the liquor from pork and 
clams. Add tomatoes and onions chopped fine and 
celery salt or green top to fiavor. After boiling slowly 
an hour or two add a teaspoonful of thyme. Simmer 
three or four hours and add potatoes about an hour be- 
fore serving. Clams are more tender if added twenty 
minutes before serving; but may be cooked longer if 
preferred. 

FISH CHOWDEB. 

Mrs, Lee Condict. 

Six pounds of fresh cod, one-quarter pound salt 
pork cut into squares and fried in pot, six tomatoes or 
one-half can, eight onions, eight potatoes, raw, cut 
into dice, two red peppers, chopped, a bunch parsley, 
four tea biscuits, teaspoonful thyme, celery salt^ salt 
and pepper to taste. Boil three hours with water to 
cover. 



G4 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Mrs, Bobbins, Baysidej, L. I, 

Strain the clams if they are soft and then chop them 
fine, put in a saucepan butter the size of an egg, and 
when melted, add a teaspoonful of flour. Add slowly 
the clam liquor, and then the clams, cook three minutes 
then add one-half pint of cream and serve. 

OKBA GUMBO SOUP. 

Mrs, C, M, Gould, Bayside, L. I. 

Cut up one chicken, wash, dry and flour it thor- 
oughly, salt and pepper, heat a lump of lard the size 
of an egg in a frying pan, and fry chicken very brown. 
Put chicken in the soup kettle witii five quarts of water, 
add one onion cut up fine, and let it boil two hours. 
Add two dozen okra pods and some rice, and let them 
boil another hour, season to taste and serve. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New^ York. 

One-half pound of fresh mushrooms cleaned, and cut 
up very fine. Put into a saucepan with two tablespoons 
of butter, one teaspoon of salt, one saltspoon of pepper. 
Cover and simmer twenty minutes. Add one quart of 
milk, bring this to a boiling point, add one tablespoon 
of cornstarch moistened with two tablespoons of cold 
milk. Stir until the soup is slightly thick. Then add 
yolks of two eggs. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 65 

CONSOMME. 

8. F.&Q, 

Put in soup kettle one roasted fowl, two pounds of 
lean veal, some roast beef bones (if convenient), two 
pounds of soup meat, eight quarts of water, two table- 
spoonfuls of salt. Boil slowly for four hours. Skim 
well. Then add one carrot, one onion, one-half a par- 
snip, one turnip, two leeks, and a few peppercorns. 
Let all simmer for four hours. Semove all the fat 
and strain through a wet cloth. This broth should be 
very clear and of a very rich yellow color. Add one 
tablespoonful of liebeg's Ertxact and a half glass of 
sherry, if clear soup is desired. If vegetables are desired 
in soup, with a small tin cube cut round pieces of 
carrot and turnip in thin slices, add a leek cut cross- 
wise. Parboil them, drain and then boil one hour with 
three quarts of the broth. Finish with a little sugar 
and three tablespoonf uls of small green asparagus tops. 

Excellent 

CONSOMME AUX PATES. 

Consomm6, served with noodles, macaroni, spaghetti, 
or any Italian pastes, first cooked in boiling salted 
water. 

CONSOMME GOLBERT. 

To six cups of consdmm^, add one-third cup each of 
cooked green peas, flageolets, carrots cut in small cubes, 
and celery cut in small pieces. Serve a poached egg 
in each plate of soup. 

CONSOMME WITH VEGETABLES. 

Consommi, seived with French string beans, and 



66 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

cooked carrots cut in fancy shapes with French vege- 
table cutters. 

CONSOMME PRINCESS. 

Consomm6, served with green peas and cooked chicken 
meat cut in small dice. 



BOUILLON. 

BEEF BOUILLON. 

Mrs, Charles A, Greer y Rye, N, Y, 

Put together in an agate lined Baucepan two pounds 
of lean beef, minced; one-half pint of lean veal, also 
minced, and two pounds, each, of beef, and veal bones, 
well cracked. Cover deep with cold water and bring 
slowly to a boil, then simmer for four hours. Season 
with salt^ pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of kitchen 
bouquet, then remove from the fire. When very cold 
and like a jelly, skim all fat from the surface of the 
soup and heat to enable you to strain out the bones and 
meat. Beturn to the fire, drop in the white of an ^g^ 
and a crushed egg-shell, bring to a boil, drop in a 
bit of ice to check ebullition and, five minutes later, 
pour carefully, not to disturb the dregs, through a 
colander lined with white flannel. You may now heat 
it to scalding, add a glass of sherry and serve it hot, 
or set on ice when cold until you can have it as "iced- 
bouillon." 

BOULLION A LA RUSSE. 

Made as just directed and serve in cups, laying a 
delicately poached ^gg upon the surface of the steaming 
liquid. 



HOW TO MAKE SOUPS. 67 

CHICKEN BOUILLON. 

Mrs. John J, Toffey. 

Put a three or four pound chicken in four quarts of 
cold water with a stalk of celery, a slice of onion, and 
a sprig of parsley, set on back of the range, and let it 
come slowly to a simmer. Cook slowly for half a day, 
skimming it often, strain and let stand overnight. 

To prepare for use skim off all fat, heat, season with 
salt and pepper, and add the white of one egg that has 
been beaten with a half cup of cold water, wash egg 
shell and add that, do not let any yolk get in or 
bouillon will be cloudy. Let soup boil rapidly for ten 
minutes, when turn in one cup of cold water, boil five 
minutes more, salt to taste, serve in cups with whipped 
cream on top. 

CHICKEN BOUILLON. 

Marion Harland. 

Cut a large fowl into pieces; put into a porcelain- 
lined kettle and cover with cold water. Set at side of 
the range and simmer for four hours. Season with 
celery salt, pepper and onion juice and set away to 
cool. When cold skim off the fat and strain out the 
bones and meat. Betum to the fire, and when hot, 
add a quarter of a box of gelatine that has soaked for 
an hour in a gill of water. When the gelatine is dis- 
solved, take the soup from the fire, strain through a 
cheese-cloth bag, or serve it when you have reheated 
it, or set aside to cool, afterward keeping it in ice when 
you may enjoy delicious "iced and jellied chicken 
bouillon." 



68 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BOUILLON & la BeUevue. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York. 

Blend together equal quantities of chicken bouillon 
and clam bouillon, made of soft clams and strained 
through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth. Put on stove 
and let them simmer for five minutes. Serve in bouillon 
cups with a tablespoonful of whipped cream on top. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

Mrs. Lambert 

Professional Oook. 

For twelve people use three dozen of soft clams, 
eighteen oysters, chop them medium size, add liquor 
from clams and oysters and half as much water as 
there is liquor. Put this on stove, with chopped oysters 
and clams, bring to a boil and simmer for ten minutes, 
then strain through cheese-cloth. Put back on stove, 
add butter, size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste. 
Whip one pint of cream and place a tablespoonful on 
top of broth in each bouillon cup. 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, TERRAPIN. 



CHAPTEB IX 

Fresh fish are hard when pressed by the finger; the 
gills red^ the eyes full. If the fiesh is fiabby and the 
eyes sunken the fish are stale. Pish should be thor- 
oughly washed^ cleaned^ wiped and sprinkled with 
salt. Most kinds of salt fish should be soaked in cold 
water for twenty-four hours, the fleshy side turned 
down in the water. Never soak fresh fish in water 
unless frozen. 

Before broilitig fish rub the gridiron with a piece 
of fat to prevei't the fish sticking. Lay the skin side 
down first. 

In boiling put the fish into cold water to which a 
little salt and vinegar have been added. Serve fish 
always with sauce. 



FISH. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Booh. 

Any fresh fish weighing between four and six pounds 
should be first washed in cold water and then put into 
boiling water enough io cover it, and containing one 
tablespoonful of salt Simmer gently thirty minutes; 
then take it up. A fish kettle is a great convenience, 
and it can be used also for boiling hams. When you 
do not have a fish kettle, keep a piece of strong white 



70 KIRMESS COOK BOOK.' 

doth in which pin the fish before putting into the boil- 
ing water. This will hold it in shape. Hard boiling 
will break the fish, and, of course, there will be great 
waste, besides the dishes not looking so handsome and 
appetizing. There should be a gentle bubbling of the 
water, and nothii^ more, all the time the fish is in it. 
A fish weighing more than six pounds should cook five 
minutes longer for every aditional two pounds. 

Many people put a tablespoonful of vinegar in the 
water in which the fish is boiled. The fish flakes a 
little more readily for il. 

COURT BOUILLON FOR ALL SORTS OF FRESH WATER FISH- 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Booh. 

One pint of water, one quart of white wine, one table- 
spoonful of butter, a bunch of parsley, a few young on- 
ions, one clove of garlic, a bunch of thyme, one bay leaf, 
one carrot, and a blade of mace. Boil the fish in this 
bouillon, which will do for several times. Any kind 
of fish such as salmon, trout, pompano, sheepshead, 
carp, may be boiled in this way. Lobster boiled in 
court bouillon is very fine. 



BOILED PISH. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

The middle slice of salmon is best. Sew up in cheese- 
cloth and boil one-quarter of an hour to each pound in 
hot salted water. When cooked, unwrap with care and 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 71 

lay upon platter. Make an egg sauce, pour half over 
salmon. Serve remainder in sauce-boat. Oamish with 
parsley and sliced lemtm. 

BOILED FRESH GODSISH. 

Marion Harland. 

Lay the fish in salt and water for an hour before cook- 
ing. Choose a "chunky*^ piece, as nearly square as you 
can get it Sew up in white mosquito netting fitted to 
the shape of the fish. Put on in enough boiling water to 
cover it, adding four tablespoonf uls of vinegar, and cook 
steadily ten minutes to the pound. Unwrap the fish 
and pour over it half of the sauce described below, put- 
ting the rest into a gravy-boat. 

EGG SAUOB FOB BOILED CODFISH. 

Make a white sauce by cooking together a tablespoon- 
ful, each, of butter and of flour until they bubble, pour- 
ing upon them a half pint of milk and stirring until 
thick and smooth. To this add one hard-boiled egg, 
chopped fine, one raw egg, beaten light, putting it in 
slowly, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the fish 
in the dish or serve in a sauce-tureen. 

STEWED EELS. 

Mrs. Egbert, New York. 

Wash and cut the eels in pieces of two and a half 
inches, take enough cold water to cover them, take salt 
to the taste, one good sized onion or two small ones sliced 
thin, and put in with the eels, the one tablespoonful 
of whole alspice. Boil slowly for half an hour, then put 
a tablespoonful of butter in a small saucepan, take a 



72 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonful and a half of flour and pnt in the butter 
and stir until smooth, take from stock, that the eels 
are boiling in, pour in with flour and butter until it 
makes a thick sauce, then- put eels on a platter and pour 
the sauce over the whole. Add chopped parsley. 

CODFISH OR HALIBUT WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Mrs, G. B. Ellwaody Philadelphia, 

Take three pounds from the tail end of a large cod 
or halibut and wash it thoroughly. In the fish kettle 
put three quarts of water, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
onion, sliced, one small carrot in thin slices, one-quarter 
of a bay leaf, three sprigs of parsley and a teaspoonful 
of peppercorns tied loosely in a bit of cheese-cloth. Boil 
slowly for half an hour, then lay in the fish and draw 
to the side of the fire, where the water will barely sim- 
mer. Cook until the flesh begins to draw away from 
the bones, then lift out on the draining rack, let stand 
for a monment, that it may drain thoroughly, and 
slide gently on a hot platter. Surround with potatoes 
boiled whole then sliced. Just before the fish is done 
put a small saucepan over the fire, and in it melt and 
mix together one heaping tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour. Add a pint of the fish broth, stirring until 
smooth and thick. Season with salt and pepper, add 
one pint of oysters which have been rinsed, drained and 
chopped fine. Stir and cook for three minutes, draw 
to one side, add one tablespoonful of lemon juice and the 
yolks of two raw eggs mixed with two tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Take from the fire immediately and stir 
in 4 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 73 

SALMON SAYOBY. 

Mrs. W. F. Cook. 

Boil a quart of milk and while boiling stir into it a 
can of salmon, add a lump of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Let boil ten minutes longer and serve on 
buttered toast. 

FINNAN HADDIE. 

Walter McDougail. 

Cook the smoked haddie by steaming it until the 
skin and bones may be easily removed, after which the 
flesh is broken into small pieces. In the meantime a 
pint of rich cream has been heated in the spider, and 
when this has become very hot a teaspoonful of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour, which have been rubbed 
together thoroughly, are stirred slowly into the sauce 
until it has thickened. The fish is then added, and is 
heated through, after which a dash of paprika, or a 
suggestion of cayenne puts the finishing touch to this 
triumph of the culinary art. 

BOILED BED 8NAPPEE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Clean and scale a fresh red snapper which will weigh 
about five or six pounds. Wash it in cold water. Have 
as much water in the kettle as will cover your fish. Add 
vinegar, salt, and lemon juice. To four parts of water 
add one and a half tablespoons of lemon juice, two 
tablespoons of salt, and one tablespoon of vinegar. 
When the water comes to a boil, push it to the back of 
the range. Add a pint of cold water, then put your 
fish in and move the kettle to the front. Just as soon 



74 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

as the water comes to a boil, place the kettle where the 
contents will just bubble. Let it cook in this way for 
half an hour. When cooked, drain thoroughly and serve 
with HoUandaise or any sauce suitable for the fish. 

TIMBAL OF FISH. 

Mrs. C. M. OotUd, Bayside, Long Island, 

Boil the fish in salted water, and remove all the bones ; 
then make a white sauce of one pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter and flour mixed together, and stir 
slowly into the milk until it is about as thick as cream. 
Pick up the fish and stir half of the sauce into the fish, 
then put it into the timbal mould and keep hot for serv- 
ing. Have ready three hard boiled eggs and slice them 
for garnishing the dish. Serve the remainder of the 
sauce around the fish. 



BBOILED FISH. 

Mrs* Parloa. 

Always use a double broiler, which, before putting 
the fish into it, rub with either butter or a piece of salt 
pork. This prevents sticking. The thickness of the fish 
will have to be the guide in Broiling. A blue fish .weigh- 
ing four pounds will take from twenty minutes to half 
an hour to cook. Many cooks brown the fish handsomely 
over the coals and then put it into the oven to finish 
broiling. When the fish is very thick, this is a good 
plan. If the fish is taken from the broiler to be put 
into the oven, it should be slipped on to a tin sheet, 
that it may slide easily into the platter at serving time. 
In broiling, the inside should be exposed to the fire 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 75 

first, and then the skin. Great care must be taken that 
the skin does not bum. Mackerel will broil in from 
twelve to twenty minutes, young cod (also called 
scrod) in from twenty to thirty minutes, bluefish in 
from twenty to thirty minutes, salmon in from twelve 
to twenty minutes, and whitefish, bass, mullet, etc. 
in about eighteen minutes. All kinds of broiled fish 
can be served with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and but- 
ter, or with any of the following sauces: Beurre noir, 
maitre dTiotel, Tartare, sharp, tomato and curry. Al- 
ways, when possible, garnish with parsley or something 
else green. 

BBOILED FISH^ LATTICED POTATOES. 

Table Talk. 

Any good-sized firm-fleshed fish may be selected for 
broiling. It should be split from head to tail and care- 
fully cleaned, if desired the backbone may be removed. 
Each half should be brushd with melted butter, laid in a 
wire broiler and cooked, flesh side first, over a clear fire. 
A five or six pound fish will require twenty-five minutes, 
The latticed potatoes served with the fish are cut with 
waved vegetable slicer. After slicing drop the potatoes 
into cold water for a little while, dry on a towel and fry 
golden brown in deep smoking-hot fat. They should be 
drained for a moment on unglazed paper and well 
salted before serving on a hot dish. 

BROILED SHAD WITH SAUCE PIQUANTE 

Mrs. 0, L, Brown. 

Split the fish down the back, wash, wipe dry, and 
lay it open on a well-greased gridiron. Broil over clear 



76 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

coals, taking care to turn the fish often, as it burns 
easily. If the shad is a iiiick one it will take about 
twenty minutes to cook thoroughly. Bemove carefully 
from the gridiron, lay on a hot fish platter, butter well 
and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Pass with the fish a 
sauce made in the following manner: 

Bub to a cream three tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Whip into this two 
teaspoonfuls of finely minced parsley. The sauce should 
be light green in color. Keep in a cool place until 
time to serve it with the fish. 

BBOILED SHAD ROES. 

Mrs. 0, L. Brown, 

Parboil the roes in salted water as soon as they are 
taken from the fish. Cook ten minutes and leave in 
ice water until cold and firm. "Marinade" them in 
bath of lemon juice and salad oil for one hour. Wipe 
lightly and broil to a nice brown, turning several times. 
Pass with lemon sauce. 

BROILED 8MBLT8. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Split and clean as many smelts as are required. 
Select large ones. Eemove the backbone, rub each one 
with olive oil, and season with a little salt and pepper. 
Grease the broiler, arrange the smelts on it, and broil 
on each side for two or three minutes. Serve with a 
B6amaise sauce. 

BROILED TROUT. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
Scale and clean a trout. Wash and dry it well. Qash 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 77 

it acroBfi the back, and in the openings put some butter 
which has been seasoned with finely chopped chives and 
parsley, a little lemon juice, and thyme. Put the trout 
in a dish, season with a little salt and pepper and olive 
oil. Let it soak for about half an hour. Remove from 
the dish. Sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a few 
chopped herbs and then arrange on a well-greased grid- 
iron. Broil over a clear fire for fifteen minutes or so 
until it is done. Turn the gridiron often and be sure 
not to bum the fish. Place on a hot dish and serve with 
any desired sauce in a separate dish. 

ROE HERRING (SMOKBD) 

Mrs. Seeleif's Cook Book. 

Soak overnight when you have washed it well. In 
the morning lay in hot water for half an hour, then in 
ice-cold water for ten minutes, wipe dry and grill on 
a gridiron over a clear fire. It is most appetiidng. 
Pass com bread with it. 

FINNAN HADDIB. 

Mrs. C. A. Oould^ New York. 

Wash the fish thoroughly, leave in cold water for three 
quarters of an hour, then lay in scalding water for five 
minutes. Wipe very dry, rub butter and lemon juice 
well into the fiber of the fish and broil over a clear fire 
for fifteen minutes. Serve with a hot butter sauce or 
with sauce Tartare. 

PLANKED SHAD. 

Table Talk. 

Have your fish cleaned and split down the back. 
Wash and wipe dry. Have ready a clean oak or hick- 



78 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ory plank, about two and one-half inches in thickness 
and of such a length that it will go easily into your oren. 
Set it in the oven until it is heated through. Bub your 
shad on both sides with an abundance of butter, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay it, open side up, on 
the hot plank and fasten it firmly into place by putting 
a tin tack at each of the four corners. Lay the plank 
on the upper grating of the oven, and rub the fish with 
butter every few minuts until done. You can tell 
when this point is reached by testing with a fork. 
Carefully withdraw the tacks and slip the fish upon a 
hot platter. Serve with melted butter, and garnish 
with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 



BAKED FISH. 

Bass or any firm-fleshed fish of moderate size may be 
used for baking. After cleaning a stuffing may be in- 
serted ; this usually consists of crackers or bread crumbs 
moistened with one tablespoonful of melted butter to 
each cupful of crumbs; a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion and chopped parsley, lemon juice, salt and pepper 
may be added at pleasure. Strips of salt pork laid into 
the gashes on each side of the fish serve to baste it, and a 
fish of from four to five pounds will take from forty-five 
minutes to an hour according to its thickness. 

BAKED FILLETS OF FLOUNDER. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Take the backbone out of the fish and cut each half 
into two neat, long slices. Boll each piece up and pin 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 79 

with a wooden skewer. A new toothpick will do. Lay 
in salad oil and lemon juice for an hour^ setting in the 
ice to make the fish firm while soaking in the marinade. 
Soil in fine dry crumbs^ peppered and salted; in 
beaten egg, and again in crumbs. Leave on ice for 
half an hour longer, and fry in deep hot lard. Drain 
and serve with sauce Tartare. 

BAKED BLUEFISH. 

Mrs, John Braivning, New York, 

Select a nice large bluefish; clean, and prepare it 
for baking. Wash it in saltd water, and after drying it 
thoroughly, stuff it with veal forcemeat for fish, or 
else with bread forcemeat, to which a few capers have 
been added. Sew up the opening and rub the fish all 
over with salt. Then, having put small pieces of butter 
over it, or slash fish and place pieces of salt pork in 
openings, place it in a large pan with enough water to 
cover the bottom, and bake in a hot oven for forty-five 
or fifty minutes. After it begins to bake, sprinkle 
it with a little salt and pepper. Baste it often with the 
liquid in the pan and a little melted butter. When it is 
cooked and a nice color, remove carefully to a hot plate. 
Do not break it. Serve with a brown sauce, or any de- 
sired sauce poured round the fish as a garnish, or serve it 
in a separate dish. 

BAKED TBOUT WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Table Talk, 

Clean, wash and dry a large salmon trout. Gash 
each side in half a dozen places, lay in each gash a 
lardoon of fat salt pork, ^hen brush the fish inside and 



80 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

out with a tablespoonful of melted butter mixed with 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Put a rack or grating 
in the baking pan^ on it lay the fish, pour a cupful of 
boiling water in the bottom and place in a very hot oven. 
Allow twelve minutes to the pound and baste three or 
four times with melted butter. Have ready in a sauce- 
pan one tablespoonful of butter cooked with one table- 
spoonful of flour. When the fish is removed from the 
oven, strain the water remaining in the pan into the 
saucepan, stir until thickened, add salt, pepper and 
sufScient caramel to make a pale, brown sauce, one table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice and one-half of a cup- 
ful of finely chopped shrimps. If the sauce is too thick 
reduce slightly with boiling water and boil for one 
minute. Oamish the fish with parsley and lemon. 

BAKED FRESH CODFISH WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. E. Allen, Philadelphia. 

Cut a neat square or oblong of codfish, lay in salt and 
water for half an hour; wipe dry and rub all over with 
melted butter and lemon juice. In the tyottom of your 
baking pan, under the grating and just not touching the 
fish, have a cupful of veal stock, or weak gravy, strained. 
Pepper and salt the fish, cover and bake ten minutes to 
the pound. Take up then and sift dry, fine crumbs 
thickly over it. Put dots of butter on these. Set in the 
oven uncovered, to brown while you strain the gravy 
from the pan, thicken with butter rolled in browned 
fiour, add the juice of half a lemon, four tablespoonfuls 
of grated Parmesan cheese and a little onion juice. 
Boil one minute, pour a few spoonfuls carefully upon the 
crumb-crust of the fish, the rest into a boat. 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 81 

This is an elegant company dish of fish^ and easy of 
preparation. 

BAKED SMELTS 

Mrs. C. E. Allen, Philadelphia. 

Line a well-buttered flat baking dish with forcemeat 
and arrange the smelts on it. Sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley and mushrooms, season with salt, pep- 
per, and a little grated nutmeg. Cover with veloute 
sauce, which has one glass of white wine mixed with it. 
Then sprinkle with bread crumbs and pieces of butter, 
and bake in hot oven for twenty minutes. When 
cooked sprinkle with the juice of a lemon and serve in 
the baking dish. 

BAKED MACKEREL WITH CREAM. 

MrSj George W. Case. 

Place mackerel in a baking pan, sprinkle on salt and 
dredge with a little flour. Add a very little water^ bake 
until nearly done, then pour over it a cupful of good 
cream and return to the oven and bake until the cream 
is nearly absorbed. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

John Chamberlain, Washington. 

Take your mackerel — one, or as many as you may 
require — and let them soak for forty-eight hours, chang- 
ing the water but once. Place the fish in a pan, which 
must be large enough to hold them so easily that one 
will not lap over another. Then cover them with the 
richest cream procurable, after which they are ready to 
be consigned to the oven, where they must remain un- 



82 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

disturbed until the cream has attained a rich brown hue, 
and the man whose eye does not dance with delight at 
the sight of this savory dish must indeed be dead to all 
sense of culinary enjoyment. 

HALIBUT AND OYSTEBS. 

Mrs. A. Scott Stapleton, 8. I. 

Order two steaks of halibut an inch thick cut from 
the tail end of the fish. Wash and dry them on a cloth. 
Pick over, rinse and drain eighteen large oysters, then 
chop them fine; cut a quarter of a pound of larding 
pork in very thin slices. Spread the bottom of a shal- 
low baking or dripping pan with several slices of the 
pork and on these lay one of the slices of halibut. 
Spread this with the oysters, season with salt and pep- 
per, sprinkle over one-half of a cupful of fine bread 
crumbs mixed with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and cover 
with the second steak. Over this spread the remaining 
slices of pork. Bake in a hot oven from thirty to forty 
minutes, basting three times with the fat in the pan; 
or use one tablespoonful of bjitter melted in three table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water. When the fish shows signs 
of separating from the bones remove the pork from the 
top and spread with a half cupful of crumbs mixed with 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. As soon as brown 
take from the oven and very carefully transfer to a 
heated platter. Serve with tomato or a HoUandaise 
sauce. 

POTTED SHAD. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Take any number of shad you wish, and cut them in 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 83 

large pieces, cut off some of the thin part, and remove 
part of the backbone. Take a stone pot that will fit 
nicely in the range oven, fill it with alternate layers of 
fish, salt and spice, red pepper according to taste, cover 
with good cider vinegar (cold) and tie a brown paper 
tightly over the top and put in warm oven over night. 



8LI0E8 OF COD A LA SEVILLE. 

Mrs. a A. Oould, New York. 

Wash and dry one-half pound of Carolina rice, fry 
it in hot olive oil, drain on a sieve, and then put it in 
a stewpan with some pieces of fresh cod cut in piecs 
about four inches square, and which have been fried in 
olive oil and drained. Cut a Spanish onion in very thin 
slices, and also fry the slices in oil. Mix them wth six 
ripe tomatoes from which the skins and seeds have been 
removed. Cook the onion and tomato slowly for five 
minutes, then pour it over the fish and rice. Season 
with a little cayenne, salt, and lemon juice. Moisten 
with one pint of white broth, place a buttered paper 
on top, cover with the lid of the pan, and place in the 
oven to bake. In about half an hour the fish and rice 
will be done. Remove the pieces of fish and with a wood- 
en spoon stir the rice over the fire in order to mix it with 
the seasoning. Arrange the rice on a dish and place the 
pieces of codfish on it. Garnish with tomato sauce or 
mussel sauce. 



84 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FRIED PISH. 

Mrs- Parloa. 

All small fish, like brook trout, smelts, perch, etc. 
are best fried. They should be cleaned, washed and 
drained, then well salted, and rolled in flour and Indian 
meal (half of each), which has been thoroughly mixed 
and salted. For every four pounds of fish have half 
a pound salt pork, cut in thin slices and fried a crisp 
brown. Take the pork from the pan and put the fish 
in, having only enough to cover the bottom. Fry brown 
on one side; turn, and fry the other side. Serve on a 
hot dish with the salt pork as a garnish. Great care 
must be taken that the pork or fat does not bum, and 
yet to have it hot enough to brown quickly. Small fish 
may be seasoned, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in cracker 
or bread crumbs and fried in boiling fat. When Indian 
meal is not liked all flour can be used. Serve fried fish 
very hot. 

FBIED SMELTS A LA PARISIENNE. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 

Wash the smelts thoroughly, cut down the back, and 
take the bone out a little below the head and just above 
the tail. Clean well and cut away the fins and gills. 
Dry well and fiour them. Roll them up by putting their 
tails in their mouths and fastening them with a wooden 
skewer. Set away in the ice box. Have your oil or 
fat very hot. Fry, a few at a time, until a nice brown. 
Keep in warm place until all are fried, then let your 
oil get very hot Put all in your frying basket, plunge 
into your hot fat. They will swell up and be a beauti- 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 85 

ful brown and crisp. Boil the number of eggs required, 
allowing one-half for each person. Take out the yolks 
and put the whites in cold water. Make a Tartare sauce. 
When ready to serve, fill each half egg with Tartare 
sauce and put round the fish. Put a bunch of parsley 
between each egg. Serve the fish very hot. 



FRIED SHAD ROES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Parboil, let them get chilled in ice water, wipe dry, 
roll in beaten egg and salted cracker crumbs and fry 
in deep fat, heated gradually to the boiling point 
before the roes go in. 

FRIED WHITE-BAIT. 

Lady Knight, London. 

Wash the fish by putting them in a colander and run- 
ning the water over them. Drain them well and soak 
in milk for thirty minutes. Drain and wipe dry. 
Dredge with flour and roll in crumbs. Set in ice-box 
until wanted. Have some hot olive oil or clarified drip- 
pings. Put in wire basket a handful at a time and as 
soon as they rise they are done^ which •will be less than 
one minute. Continue fr3ring till all are done, keep- 
ing the fried ones hot. When all are fried let the fat 
get very hot, put all of them in wire basket and plunge 
in fat for a minute or two. Take out, dredge with 
salt, and serve very hot with Tartare sauce. Brown 
bread is always served with this fish. 



86 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FRIED SCALLOPS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Wash and dry the necessary amount of scallops. 
Season them with salt and white pepper. Boll them 
in fine bread crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in 
bread crumbs. Arrange in frying basket so they do not 
touch each other and plunge in a kettle of boiling fat. 
Cook until a delicate brown and serve with Tartare 
sauce. 

FRIED SMOKED SALMON. 

Marion Harhnd. 

Wash, soak and parboil the salmon. Wipe very 
dry, roll in egg and cracker dust, and set in a cold 
place for an hour before frying in hot salad oil or in 
other fat. Serve with sauce Tartare. 

FISH FILLETS, SAUCE TARTARE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
For this dish flounders are the best, giving you four 
fillets to each fish. After rincing and drying sprinkle 
them with a tablespoonful of lemon juice mixed with 
ten drops of onion juice and a little salt and pepper. 
Let stand for a hour — ^longer if possible. Again dry 
each piece with a cloth; if too large for single service 
divide the fillets. Then dip each piece in slightly beaten 
egg, roll in fine dry bread crumbs and fry until nicely 
browned in a kettle partly filled with smoking hot fat. 
As a sauce wash, dry and pound to a pulp two table- 
spoonfuls of parsley, one tablespoonful of capers and one 
of cucumber pickle; press out as much watery juice as 
possible and mix with a large cupful of thick mayon- 
naise. 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 8l 

SOLE WITH MUSSEL 8AU0B. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's French Chef. 

Put a little butter in a saucepan with a spoonful of 
flour^ mix with it a little hot water^ make it rather 
thick. Add salt^ pepper^ a little stock. Cook a half dozen 
mushroom by the side of fire. Cook a few mussels and 
add to the sauce, add a wineglass of white wine. Let 
cook one half hour on side of stove. Take the fillet of 
Bole^ roll lightly in flour. Fry in some hot butter, 
five minutes. Put it on the dish you serve on. Keep 
warm. Add to sauce yolk of one egg with a little cream. 
Cook up and pour over the fish. 



TROUT FRIED. 

Mrs. Elmer 8.. Forbes. 

Several hours before using the trout cut three di- 
agonal lines across the back of each fish with a sharp 
knife, then lay the trout to soak in a pan of milk until 
ready to use. Drain and wipe them dry and fry in 
butter. Serve with a slice of lemon and maitre d'hdtel 
butter. Boiled new potato balls and sliced cucumbers 
with French dressing should be served with the trout. 

SCALLOP PATTIES. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Boil scallops five minutes or until soft, pour oflE 
liquor and cover with a rich cream sauce. Fill patty 
shells and serve hot. 



88 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

frog's legs fried. 

Mrs, C, A. Oould, New York. 

Clean them. Season with salt and pepper, dip them 
in flour, then beaten Qgg and cracker crumbs, place in 
frying basket and fry in hot fat 

HALIBUT OUTLETS. 

Table Talk. 

Wash a two pound slice of halibut (any firm fleshed 
white fish may be used in its stead), lay in a frying pan, 
add one scant teaspoonful of salt, a dozen peppercorns, 
half of a bay leaf, a stalk of celery, sufficient boiling wa- 
ter to cover and one tablespoonf ul of vinegar. Keep just 
below the simmering point until the fish looks white all 
through and begins to draw away from the bones. Set 
aside until cold, then lift out and drain the fish and 
with a fork break in small flakes. Season well with 
salt, pepper, a little lemon juice; then measure. For 
three cupfuls make a thick white sauce with two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter, three heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and one cupful and a half of milk, season- 
ing with salt, cayenne and one teaspoonful of onion 
juice. Take from the fire, stir in the fish and set aside 
until cold. Shape into cutlets, roll each in fine crumbs, 
dip in slightly beaten ^ggy then again in the crumbs. 
These' may be so far prepared early in the day. Just 
before serving, fry them golden brown in smoking hot 
fat and drain on soft paper. Make a pint of thin cream 
sauce, and two minutes before taking from the fire 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 89 

stir in a -half cupful of canned shrimp cut fine or 
chopped raw oysters. When removed from the fire add 
the beaten yolk of two eggs and a teaspoonf ul of finely 
chopped parsley. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Mrs. Charles Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 

Soak one cup of codfish over night in cold water. 
In the morning drain, pick fine, cut two cups of raw 
potatoes in small pieces, boil all together, drain oil 
water, add a little cream, a lump of butter half the size 
of an egg, two eggs beaten light. Season with black 
pepper, a dash of cayenne, a little salt. Whip with a 
silver fork until light, roll in small balls and fry in hot 
lard. 

CODFISH CROQUETTBS. 

Mrs. C. C. atimeU. 

Eight large potatoes, two cups codfish (not prepared 
kind) picked over carefully in small pieces. Wash 
thoroughly and put with the raw potatoes into boiling 
water. Boil constantly until the potatoes are done. 
Drain carefully and mash fine. Put in two eggs that 
have been beaten light, one cup of thick cream, salt 
if necessary. Set away to cool. Make into shapes like 
croquettes and fry in hot butter. Serve. 



OYSTERS. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

Mrs. 0. K. Dickinson. 
Have very small oysters, very cold, and free from 



90 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

bits of shell. One tablespoonful of lemon juice, one 
tablespoonful of tomato catsup, half a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, five drops of Tobasco sauce, and 
a little salt. This quantity will be sufficient for three 
people. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Mrs. John L. Flagg, 

Mix together sixteen drops Tobasco sauce, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of horseradish, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of 
tomato juice, one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. 
For (optional) oysters in glasses. 

CLAM COCKTAILS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Select six medium size green peppers, cut top oflE 
from the stem side, trim bottom so the peppers will 
stand firmly on plates. Place them in ice cold water 
until crisp, wipe dry. Mix thii'ty-six Little Neck clams 
which are thoroughly cold with following mixture. 
Four tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, three tea- 
spoonfuls of grated horse radish, six drops of Tobasco 
sauce, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Place clam mixture in peppers, ornamenting top with 
chopped olives and green peppers. 

OYSTERS with SHERRY. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 

In a deep baking dish put a layer of medium sized 
oysters, sprinkle over a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 91 

few bits of butter. Cover with a light layer of bread 
crumbs, and pour over some of the oyster liquor, to 
which two tabiespoonf uls of sherry have been added. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is full, having the top 
layer bread crumbs, with bits of butter scattered over. 
Bake fifteen mmutes in a hot oven, and serve with 
olives and celery and thin mock sandwiches of brown 
bread. 

SOFT CLAMS. 

Mrs, Frank Shepherd, New York. 

Take two soft clams, cut away all but the round soft 
part and put two clams in one shell, then put on the 
top a little butter, salt and pepper and sprinkle with 
Parmesan cheese. Place a thin slice of bacon on top 
of this and put in oven for two or three minutes. 

OYSTER or CLAM FRITTERS. 

Delmonico 

Select fifty plump oysters or clams, drain of juice 
and chop in small pieces. To juice add one cup of 
milk, a pinch of salt, four well beaten eggs and fiour 
enough to make batter like griddle cakes. Fry in hot 
butter and lard mixed, brown on both sides. The 
success cf these fritters depends upon having plenty of 
oysters or clams. 

SOFT CLAMS d la NKWBURO. 

Filippini (Delmonico's, ) 

Procuie forty very fresh, soft clams, so that no 
sand should adhere to them after they are opened; lay 



92 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

them carefully in the pahu of the left hand^ and with 
the fingers of the right remove the body gently, but 
nothing else, being very careful not to break it, and 
throw away all the remains. When they are all pre- 
pared, place them in a stewpan with an ounce of good 
butter, half a pinch of white pepper, a wine-glassful 
of good Madeira wine, and two finely hashed, medium- 
sized trujHSes. Put on the cover, and let cook gently for 
eight minutes. Break three egg yolks into a bowl, add 
a pint of sweet cream, beat well for three minutes, then 
pour it over the clams; turn well the handle of the 
saucpan for two or three minutes, very gently shuffling 
the clams, but it must not boil again or the clams 
will break, and be very careful not to use either a spoon 
or fork. Pour them into a hot tureen, and send to 
the table at once. 

LITTLE PIQfi IN BLANKETS. 

Mrs. 0. K, Dickinson. 

Drain and dry oysters. Wrap each one in a very 
thin slice of bacon ; fasten the whole with small wooden 
skewer or toothpick. When ready to serve, have a 
large iron baking-pan well heated; throw in a few 
oysters at a time, and as soon as browned and the 
gills curled, take them out, drain them in a colander and 
continue the frying in the same pan. 

OYSTEK ORO^lJETTS. 

Mrs. John J. Toffey. 

Scald oysters in their liquor, drain, chop fine, make 
a cream sauce in proportion of one teaspoon of flour. 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 93 

iiibbed with one tablespoon of butter. To one cup of 
milk add one well beaten egg. Put in the chopped 
oysters; also some hard boiled eggs chopped fine, let 
cool, form^ roll in sifted bread crumbs^ dip in egg 
and fry in a basket. Serve with cream sauce made 
mostly with the liquor of the oysters, adding a little 
milk. 

FRIED 0Y8TEBS. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Booh. 

Select large oysters, clean^ and parboil slightly to 
draw out some of the water. Drain and dry on a towel. 
Roll in fine bread or cracker crumbs, dip in mayonnaise 
dressing, then in crumbs again. Let them stand five 
minute, and if they seem moist, dip again in crumbs, 
and cook in deep hot fat for one minute. Being 
already cooked, they only need to be thoroughly heated 
and the crumbs browned. 

KSOMESKIES of OTSTEBS. 

Mrs. C. M. Oould, Bayside, L. I. 

Twenty-five oysters, three chopped mushrooms, one 
tablespoonful butter, two egg yolks, one tablespoonful 
parsley, twelve drops onion juice, one cup of the white 
meat of chicken, one-half pound bacon, one-half cupful 
cream, two tablespoonfuls flour, salt and pepper to 
suit taste. Put the oysters on to boil in their own 
liquor, drain, save half a cup of the liquor. Chop the 
oysters fine, add them to the half cup of liquor, boil 
one minute. Then add the cream, mushrooms and 
chicken chopped fine. Bub the flour and butter to- 
gether, and stir in this boiling mixture, add parsley. 



94 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

onion juice, salt, pepper, then add yolks of eggs; mix 
well and turn out to cool. When cool roll into cylinders 
about an inch and a half long and three quarters of an 
inch in diameter. Cut the bacon into slices thin, 
roll each cylinder in a slice of bacon, dip in French 
fritter batter. Serve immediately garnished with pars- 
ley. 

SOALLOPED OYSTEBS. 

Mrs. Mary Harrison McKee, Washington. 

Boil the macaroni soft, put a layer into a baking- 
dish, cover with oysters, pepper, salt and butter, then 
another layer of macaroni, then a layer of oysters, 
until the dish is filled. Bake. 

0YSTEB8 SCALLOPED WITH . SPAGHETTI. 

Mrs. M. De M. Vreeland. 

Boil some spaghetti that has been cut in small pieces. 
Put a layer in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a 
layer of fresh raw oysters, sprinkling with salt, pepper 
and bits of butter, another layer of spaghetti and con- 
tinue until the dish is full. Pour over all a cupful 
of oyster liquor and cover with grated cheese and bits 
of butter. Bake until a nice brown and serve as soon as 
finished, with triangles of toasted bread bordering the 
dish and garnished with parsley. 

DEVILED OTSTERB. 

Miss Stella Flanagan. 

Chop 25 oysters fine, add one-half cup of cracker 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of melted butter, one cup of 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 95 

cream, salt and pepper. Butter baking-dish and fill 
with the mixture, cover the top with crumbs and grated 
cheese. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

STEAMED OYSTEBS OR CLAMS IN SHELL. 

Mrs. Cross, Cincinnati, 0. 

Wash and place oysters in air tight vessel^ laying them 
on upper shell downward, so that the liquor will not run 
out when they open. Place this dish over vessel of boil- 
ing water where they will steam. Boil rapidly until 
shells open, for 15 or 20 minutes. Open shell, place two 
oysters or clams on half shell. Season with pepper and 
salt and a Itmip of butter. Serve with sliced lemon. 

CLAM FBITTERS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Chop 50 small clams. Put one pint of flour in a 
basin, add to it three well beaten eggs, one-half pint of 
sweet milk and nearly as much of clam liquor, beat this 
batter until it is perfectly smooth, then stir in clams. 
Put a spoonful of this batter in boiling hot lard, when 
one side is a delicate brown, turn the other side and fry 
brown. 

GRILLED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Dodds, Philadelphia. 

Pick over, rinse and drain a dozen medium sized 
oysters. Prepare two thin slices of butterd toast (not 
too hard), cut each in half diagonally and keep hot. 
In a frying pan drop a heaping tablespoonful of butter 
and heat it slowly. As it begins to change color drop 



96 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

in the oysters and shake them over until they plump 
and ruffle. Skim them out quickly and arrange on toast, 
which is on a hot platter. To the liquid in the pan add 
one heaping tablespoonful of beef extract. If, when it 
dissolves, the sauce is very thick, add a teaspoonful of 
strained oyster liquor and boil up once. Pour over the 
oysters and serve immediately. 

MARYLAND STEWED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. C. M. Oould, Bayside, L. I. 

Take one pint of juice, let it simmer, skimming it 
carefully, then rub the yolks of three hard boiled eggs 
and one large spoonful of flour well together and stir 
into the juice ; cut in small pieces, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, half teaspoonful of whole allspice, a little salt, 
a little cayenne and the juice of a fresh lemon. Let all 
simmer ten minutes and, just before serving, add the 
oysters. This is for two quarts of oysters. 

OYSTER PIES. 

Mrs. Alexander Brodie, Washington, D. C. 

To make little oyster pies prepare a rich light 
crust the day before, and get about eight fine large oys- 
ters for each person. Just before dinner time fill the 
small baking-dishes with the oysters washed and drain- 
ed, and wet them with their own juice, strained, brought 
to a boil and skimmed, and then mixed with as much 
rich cream; thicken this with a teaspoonful of butter, 
melted, with as much flour, and strain over the oysters ; 
each dish should be only half full of juice, as the oys- 
ters will shrink in the oven and thin the sauce. Season 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 97 

with salt, pepper, and bits of butter; put on the crust, 
and bake until it lightly browns. In serving put each 
dish on a separate plate and add a bit of parsley on top 
of each little pie. 

CLAM PIE. 

Mrs. Oeorge W. Case. 

First put some butter in the bottom of the pan, then 
a layer of clams, then a layer of sliced potatoes and re- 
peat till the pan is as full as required. Add the water 
from the claims, small piece butter, then salt and pep- 
per to taste. Cover with a rich pie crust, bake in a mod- 
erate oven one and one-half hours. 

CLAM PIE. 

Mrs. E. H. Murphy, Newark, N. J. 

From a half pound of rather fat salt pork trim oflE 
the rind and cut in slices, then in dice ; slowly fry this, 
and when the fat is well drawn out, and just before be- 
ginning to color, add half of a small onion cut fine. 
When golden brown, add one quart of raw, diced pota- 
toes, one pint of boiling water and one quarter of a 
teasponnful of black pepper, cover and cook slowly un- 
til the potatoes are almost tender. Take from the fire, 
add one scant quart of raw clams, cut in half or quar- 
ters, and their strained juice. Turn in a deep dish, 
(well greased). While this mixture is cooking mix and 
sift one and a half pints of flour, a half teaspoonful of 
salt and two scant teaspoonfuls of baking powder; rub 
in flour two tablespoonfuls of lard. Mix to a soft dough 
with milk and roll out a half inch thick. Cover the 



98 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

top of pie^ brush with milk and bake in a hot oven for 
thirty-five minutes. 



LOBSTER. 



TO OPEN A BOILED LOBSTER. 

Miss Bedford, New York. 

A lobster, if alive and in good condition when dropped 
into the kettle, will have the tail curved round under 
the bodv; if gently pulled out it will spring back to 
its former position. The first thing to do in opening 
the lobster is to twist off the tail. With a scissors or 
sharp knife split open the thin under part of the shell 
and draw the meat out in one long piece. Pull off 
the thin strip running down the upper side, and under- 
neath will be seen a vein — the intestinal canal — some- 
times dark in color, but often quite white. Carefully 
remove this. Break the claws from the body, crack, 
with a sharp knife split open the under part of the shell, 
draw out the body; pull off all the woolly gills and 
the eyes; immediately back of the latter lies the 
stomach or 'lady,*' which must also be removed. Pick 
out the meat from between the thin scales or ribs, add 
it to the claw and tail meat. If the lobster is a female 
there will be in the body a quantity of eggs or "coral.'' 
This, with the green fat should be added to the meat. 
The body and tail shells may be carefully washed, 
dried and put aside to use for garnishing or to serve 
as a dish in preparing a farci; the small claws may 
also be put aside, but cannot be kept for any length 
of time. Lobster should be plunged in boiling water 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 99 

and cooked for twenty minutes if large^ two minntes 
if small. 

HOW TO BROIL A LOBSTER. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Only live lobsters are cooked in this way. Kill the 
fiFh by inserting a sharp knife in its back between the 
body and tail shells, severing the spinal cord. Split 
the shell the entire length of the back, remove the 
stomach and intestinal canal, crack the large claws and 
lay the fish as flat as possible. Brush the meat with 
melted butter, season with salt and pepper, place in a 
broiler and with the flesh side down, cover and broil 
slowly until a delicate brown, twenty minutes is 
usually sufficient. Turn the broiler and broil for 
ten minutes longer. Serve hot, passing melted 
butter with the lobster. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURO. 

Miss Hinds. 

Two good sized lobsters. Put lobster in a sauce pan 
on the range with one ounce of butter, season with a 
little salt and pinch of red pepper. 

Wine glass of Sherry. 

Cook five minutes. 

Have three eggs (yolks only) in a bowl with one 
pint of cream, beat well together and then add to lob- 
ster, gently shuffle the pan for two minutes, or until 
it thickens. 



100 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

L0B8r£B NEWBURO. 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 

Gnt meat from five pounds of lobster in small pieces. 
Melt four tablespoonfnls butter and add lobster^ cook- 
ing slowly five minutes. Then add two tablespoon- 
fuls brandy and two of sherry and a slight grating of 
nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Simmer five min- 
utes longer, then add well beaten yolks of four eggs, 
and a half pint of cream. Cook a minute or so and 
it is ready for use. This may be kept hot for several 
hours in double boiler or place one kettle in larger 
one of hot water, covering tightly. 

LOBSTER NEWBURO. 

Mrs. W. S. Qould, New York. 

One lobster cut in large pieces, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one tablespoon of flour, one teacup milk, one- 
half teacup cream, yolks of two eggs, red pepper, salt 
and black pepper to taste. Stir continually while cook- 
ing. Add sherry and serve hot. 

LOBSTER OROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Chas. A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 

Pick the meat from a lobster, mince finely and mix 
it with one heaping tablespoon of finely grated bread 
crumbs, two tablespooiifuls of thick cream, the strained 
juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful anchovy sauce, a 
little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt and stir over fire 
until it is very hot. Take it off, and mix in beaten 
yolk of one egg ai^d leave until cold. Shape the lob- 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, EtC. 101 

ster preparation into croquettes or balls^ brush over 
with egg, roll in cracker and plunge into boiling fat 
and fry. When cooked^ drain on brown paper. Gar- 
nish with parsley and serve. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

Mrs. Oeo. Wilkinson. 

Take about five pounds of cold lobster and cut into 
small pieces. Put a quart of cream on stove with 
whole onion in. Let come to a boil and take out onion. 

Season with a tablespoon of butter and salt and pepper 
to taste, mix one heaping tablespoon of flour and one 
scant teaspoonful of mustard, together with one half cup 
of milk and stir into hot cream. Stir well until rich and 
creamy. 

Take off stove and put in lobster. Fix in small ba- 
kers, with bread crumbs on top, and cook in oven few 
minutes until browned. 

DEVILLED LOBSTER 

Mrs. W. V. Tojfey. 

Two lobsters, each weighing two and a half pounds. 
One pint cream or good milk, two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
mustard. A speck of cayenne salt and pepper, one pint 
bread crumbs. After opening lobsters, cut the meat in 
small pieces. Boil cream, mix butter, flour, mustard 
and pepper. Add three spoonfuls of boiling cream. 
Stir all into the remaining cream. Cook two minutes. 
Add lobster, salt and pepper. Boil one minute. Fill 
ramakins, or the unbroken lobster shells. Sprinkle 



102 KIRMESS CCX)K BOOK. 

bread crumbs on top and brown about ten minutes in 
hot oven. Garnish with watercress. 

LOBbTER OUTLSTS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Take the meat from a large lobster or two small' 
ones^ place it in a mortar with some of its coral and 
pound, mixing with it a little powdered mace, salt and 
pepper and cayenne. Beat yolks of two eggs and the 
white of one together with a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, then mix with above ingredients, roll out, sprin- 
kle a little flour over, and form into cutlets, brush in 
beaten egg (a paste brush is very satisfactory in putting 
egg on cutlets, etc.), then roll in cracker or bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling butter and lay on brown paper 
to drain. 

SAUOB FOR OUTLETS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One-half pound of butter, melted in a sauce pan with 
the coral of lobster. One teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 
and make it hot. When cutlets are browned, arrange 
them in circle on hot dish; pour sauce in center and 
serve. 

. LOBSTER CHOPS. 

Miss Emma Lockwood. 

One-half pound of fresh boiled lobster cut into dice. 
Put two ounces of butter into stewpan and when it bub- 
bles sprinkle in two ounces of flour. Cook it and then 
pour in a cupful of boiling cream and the lobster dice. 
Stir until scalding hot. Take from fire and when slight- 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 103 

ly cooled stir in beaten yolks of three eggs, and a grating 
of nutmeg, red pepper and salt to taste. Return to fire 
and stir long enough to well set the eggs. Butter plat- 
ter on which to spread the mixture one-half inch deep. 
When cold press in the shape of chops. Bread crumb, 
egg and bread crumb again and fry in boiling lard. 
Stick a claw in each chop when cooked. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York. 

Pick meat from a boiled lobster and cut in dice, 
place it in saucepan with salt and pepper to taste and a 
small quantity of grated nutmeg, moisten with half 
tablespoonful of vinegar and one teaspoonful of sherry. 
Stir it over the fire until hot, then dredge lightly with 
flour to thicken, add two ounces of butter and a teacup- 
ful of cream. Cook ten minutes, stirring while mixture 
is boiling. Pill patty shells and serve. 

L0B8TEB TIMBALE. 

Mrs. E. 0. Tindall. 

Place two pounds of cooked lobster, half a pound of 
chicken halibut, and the whites of two eggs in a mortar, 
pound to a pulp, and then press through a pur6e sieve. 
Moisten with one-half cup of Bechamel sauce and half 
a cup of cream. Beat all together until very light. 
Season to taste with salt, white pepper, a dash of cay- 
enne, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir thoroughly, then 
set the mixture away on ice for one hour or more until 
it cools and stiffens. Then take a small portion, place 
it in buttered timbale mould, and poach in the oven for 



104 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

about ten minutes. At the end of that time, if not firm 
to the touch, add the beaten white of one egg to the raw 
mixture. If too firm to the touch, add more cream to 
the raw mixture. Then place in buttered mould, cover 
with buttered paper, and poach in the oven until firm to 
the touch. Serve with B6chamel sauce, or any other de- 
sired. 



CRABS. 



FRIED SOFT-SHBLL CRABS 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

After cleaning the desired number of crabs, season 
with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg, then in fine 
bread crumbs. Drop in hot fat and cook until crisp 
and coioied a nice brown. Drain and place on hot 
dish, garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Serve 
with Tartare sauce or any fried fish sauce desired. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

By Mrs. M. DeM. Vreeland. 

To the picked meat of six good heavy crabs, allow 
one-half pint of cream or rich milk, one tablespoon of 
flour, the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, a teaspoonful 
of salt, the juice of half a lemon, one tablespoon of 
butter, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, a season- 
ing of onion juice and a dash of cayenne pepper. 

Rub the butter and flour together and add to the 
cream, over the fire, stirring till smooth and thick. 
Remove from the fire and add the egg yolks, finely 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 106 

mashed, then the seasoning and crab-meat, mixing 
thoroughly. Fill the well washed crab shells with this 
mixture and cover with a coating of bread crumbs and 
bits of butter. Bake to a nice brown and serve with 
Tartare sauce. 

CRAB RAVIOATE. 

Mrs. Chas. A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 

Boil some large hard shell crabs, after which put them 
aside to become cold. Then turn them over on the 
hard shell side and with a sharp knife cut the Breast 
away. Pick the meat off, clean it nicely, being careful 
not to leave any pieces of shell in it, and season 
lightly with salt and pepper. Mix with thick remou- 
lade sauce and fill up one of the shells, which has 
previously been washed clean, with the mixture. The 
meat of two good sized crabs so treated- will be sufB- 
cient to fill the insid? of one shell. Cover the meat 
with mayonnaise and decorate with fillet of anchovy 
and sliced pickles. Serve on a folded napkin with 
branches of parsley and quartered lemon. 

CANAPE LORENZO. 

Filippini, (Delmonico's.) 

Cut out from an American bread six slices, the width 
of the bread, one-quarter of an inch in thickness ; neatly 
pare off the crust, fry them in a pan with half an 
ounce of butter, so as to have them of a light brown 
color. Boil eighteen hard-shelled crabs in salted water 
for twelve minutes, remove them, and let cool until they 
can be handled with bare hands; then remove the up- 
per shell, and with' the aid of a pointed knife pick out 



106 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

all the meat; crack both claws^ pick the meat out also; 
place the meat on a plate^ season with a tablespoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of red pepper. Place one ounce 
of butter in a saucepan with half a medium-sized, sound, 
peeled, and very finely chopped-up onion. Cook on a 
moderate fire for two minutes, being very careful not 
to let get brown. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir- 
ring constantly for two minutes; then add one gill of 
broth, stir well again for five minutes while slowly 
cooking. Add now the crab meat, and cook for fifteen 
minutes more, slightly stirring with a wooden spoon 
once in a while. Transfer it into a vessel, and let cool 
for fifteen minutes. Place a tablespoonful of good but- 
ter in a sautoire on a hot stove, mix in well together one 
tablespoonful of flour, and cook veiy slowly for three 
minutes. Add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
and the same quantity of grated Swiss cheese; stir all 
well together. Then place in a vessel and let cool. 
Place a lay of crab forcemeat on each toast a quarter 
of an inch thick. Divide the prepared cheese, etc., into 
six equal parts, giving them a ball-shaped form two 
inches in diameter. Arrange them over the layer of 
crab forcemeat right in the centre. Place them on a 
silver dish, and bake in a brisk oven for five minutes. 
Then take out from the oven, and send to the table in 
the same dish. 



TERRAPIN. 

BTEWED TERRAPIN. 

Mrs. C. M, Oould, Bayside, L, I, 
Two terrapins, one-half pint of thick cream, six eggs, 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 107 

one-half pound of butter, one gill of Sherry or Mederia 
wine, one-fourth teaspoon of mace, salt and cayenne 
to taste. Put the terrapins alive in boiling water, boil 
ten or fifteen minutes, or until you can pull off the 
outer skin and the toe nails. Put them back in fresh 
boiling water, add a heaping teaspoonful salt and boil 
slowly until the shells part easily and the flesh on the 
legs is quite tender. When done take out, remove the 
under shell, let stand until cool enough to handle, 
then take them out of the upper shells, carefully remove 
the sand-bags, bladders, the thick heavy part of the 
intestines, and the gall sacks, which are found em- 
bedded in one lobe of the liver, and throw them away. 
In remolding the gall sack be careful not to break it, 
as it would spoil the terrapin. Break the terrapin in 
convenient sized pieces; cut the small intestines into 
tiny pieces and add to the meat; now add the liver 
broken up; also all the eggs found in the terrapin. 
Now put it into a stewing-pan with the juice it has 
given out while being cut. Bell the butter in flour 
add it to the terrapin and stand on a very moderate 
firie until heated. Boil the six eggs for fifteen minutes, 
take out yolks, mash to a smooth paste with two table- 
spoonfuls of the wine; then add this, the cream and 
seasoning to the terrapin. Let it boil up once; take 
from flre, add wine and serve. It must not be boiled 
after the wine is added. 

TERRAPIN d la OHAMBBRLIN. 

John Chamberlin, Washington* 

Put a female terrapin in boiling water for five 
minutes, to loosen the skin, then take it out, skin it, 



108 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and replace it in the hot water. When the claws are 
soft, it is sufficiently boiled. Take it out and remove 
the bottom shell first. Cut off the head and claws, 
and take out the gall and sand-bag, then cut up the 
remainder. Cur up the entrails and all about half 
an inch long. Be careful to preserve all the juice. Put 
in a stew-pan. Make a dressing of flour, the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs, a third of a pound of the very 
best butter, a proper proportion of salt, red pepper, a 
small quantity of rich cream, and a large wine-glass 
of Maderia or*Sherry to each terrapin. All of the in- 
gredients to be of the best quality. Dish promptly 
and serve smoking hot. 

As a variation from the usual Sliced Cucumber served 
with fish course, the following recipes are given: — 

Miss Rita Gray, New York, 

Take a cucumber measuring four inches in length, 
cut one-third from the top lengthwise, take out pulp 
and seeds, leaving only the shell of the cucumber; the 
top of this shell may be cut in points. Take chopped 
pulp of cucumber, add a teaspoon of chopped onion, a 
teaspoon of chopped green pepper and a third of a tea- 
spoon of chopped Spanish pepper ; mix thoroughly with 
French dressing and place in cucumber shell. Garnish 
the top with Spanish pepper, chopped very fine, placing 
in center of this a garnished radish. Serve with fish 
course. 

Mrs. Livingston Oifford, 

Select a good sized, well rounded cucumber, cut off 
both ends, cut roundwise a piece about two and a half 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 109 

inches in length; take out the pulp leaving just enough 
in bottom for a foundation for filling; take a Spanish 
pepper, pull it out, cut in narrow strips, placing five 
strips at equal distances around the cucumber from 
inside of the top to the bottom. Fill with same mixture 
as above, placing a small piece of Spanish pepper in 
center on top of filling, and running narrow strips from 
it to the strips around cucumber. Serve with fish 
course. 



V ^— **'"•♦ miln and 
the 
;ter 
per, 
: of 
5 of 
ens, 
:ess- 
and 
)per. 
mr 



^^^j... wit 

HoIIandaise or Tartar sauce, as preiencv^. ^- ; may 
be used to garnish edge of platter, having fish, crabs, 
frogs legs, etc., in center of dish. 

Take medium and uniform sized, cold boiled beets, 
cut out center and fill with HoIIandaise or Tartar 
sauce, as preferred, serve on platter, having fish in 
center of same. 



108 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and replace it in the hot water. When the claws are 
soft, it is sufficiently boiled. Take it out and remove 
the bottom shell first. Cut off the head and claws, 
and take out the gall and sand-bag, then cut up the 
remainder. Cur up the entrails and all about half 
an inch long. Be careful to preserve all the juice. Put 
in a stew-pan. Make a dressing of flour, the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs, a third of a pound of the very 
best butter, a proper proportion of salt, red pepper, a 



CORRECTIONS. 



Pace 108— In recipes for servinff Oacumbers, Lemons and Tomatoes to be 
served with Fish Course, allow the quantity given for each 
person. Radish should be placed In comer, not center, of 
cucumber, In first recipe. 

Page 109— Cucumber recipe, by Mrs. Olfford, thautd read fill with same 
mixture as above recipe. 



French dressing and place in cucumber shell. Oamish 
the top with Spanish pepper, chopped very fine, placing 
in center of this a garnished radish. Serve with fish 
course. 

Mrs. Livingston Oifford. 

Select a good sized, well rounded cucumber, cut off 
both ends, cut roundwise a piece about two and a half 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 109 

inches in length; take out the pulp leaving just enough 
in bottom for a foundation for filling; take a Spanish 
pepper, pull it out, cut in narrow strips, placing five 
strips at equal distances around the cucumber from 
inside of the top to the bottom. Fill with same mixture 
as above, placing a small piece of Spanish pepper in 
center on top of filling, and running narrow strips from 
it to the strips around cucumber. Serve with fish 
course. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Cut in half good sized lemons, take out pulp and 
seeds, leaving only shell of lemon, point or scallop the 
edges. Fill with the following mixture: one-quarter 
head of cabbage, one stalk of celery, a green pepper, 
all chopped fine, mix with a dressing made of yolk of 
two eggs, one-quarter teaspoon sugar, butter size of 
a walnut, put in double boiler, stir until it thickens, 
then add two tablespoons of vinegar. Mix the dress- 
ing with the above ingredients, fill lemon shell and 
garnish top with chopped green and Spanish pepper. 
Place fish in center of platter and arrange the lemon 
shells around the fish, and serve. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Prepare lemon same as above, fill the shell with 
Hollandaise or Tartar sauce, as preferred. These may 
be used to garnish edge of platter, having fish, crabs, 
frogs legs, etc., in center of dish. 

Take medium and uniform sized, cold boiled beets, 
cut out center and fill with Hollandaise or Tartar 
sauce, as preferred, serve on platter, having fish in 
center of same. 



110 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



Mrs. F. D. Oray. 

Use small, round tomato^ peel, cut out center, chop- 
ped fine some cucumber, two teaspoonfuls of chopped 
tomato, one teaspoonful of chopped green pepper. 
Mix cucumber, tomato, peppers with French dressing. 
Pill tomatoes, garnish with parsley. Serve with fish 
course. 



ENTREES. 



CHAPTEB X. 

OHOPS IN PAPER. 

Mrs. William B. Jenvey, Hoboken. 

Select either veal or mutton chops, trim and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, chop a little uncooked bacon, mix 
with bread crumbs and season as for turkey dressing: 
moisten slightly, just enough to make it into little pats^ 
lay on each chop; have ready squares of browned, well 
oiled paper, wrap about each chop and bake twelve min- 
utes in a quick oven. Serve in papers. 

0A88EBOLE OF LAMB CHOPS AND CHESTNUTS. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Trim eight or ten chops, leaving very little fat on 
them. Peel and slice one small onion, separating the 
rings. Shell and blanch one pint of large Italian chest- 
nuts; put them in a shallow vessel, cover with cold water 
and let them come to a boil. After boiling two or three 
minutes, closely covered, drain oflE the water and shake 
the pan over the fire until the nuts are dry. Put in a 
little butter and shake again. Put half the chops into 
the casserole with half the onion rings laid on them. 
Add the rest of the chops and onion rings and a pint 
of boiling water. Cover and cook in the oven slowly 



112 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

one hour. Skim off the fat and add the chestnuts, some 
salt and paprika and a little more water, if necessary, 
and let them cook slowly until the chestnuts are tender, 
llemove the last drop of fat before sending the casse- 
role to the table. 

STUFFED CHOPS. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Make a stuflBng of fine bread crumbs, with a little 
chopped ham, parsley, one half an onion, and a green 
pepper. Moisten well with the juice of canned or fresh 
tomatoes and season with salt and pepper and a large 
lump of butter. Cover French chops with a layer of 
stuffing, one-half inch thick, and bake in the oven until 
brown. Serve with tomato sauce and garnish with pars- 
ley and frills of white paper on the end of the chop 
bones. 

STUFFED CUTLETS. (COLD.) 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Have the cutlets cut very thin, carefully trimmed and 
the bone removed. Spread them with a mixture of 
cold boiled tongue, chopped fine, and seasoned with pep- 
per and blanched almonds, chopped very fine. The cut- 
lets are rolled as tight as possible, tied and simmered 
until tender in stock enough to cover them. The stock 
may be seasoned with one-half sliced onion, a bay leaf, 
a root of celery and four cloves. Allow the cutlets to 
lie in the stock until cold. Then slice thin and garnish 
with nasturtiums or olives and watercress. 



ENTREES. 118 

SHELLS OF GHIOKEN. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's French Chef. 

Cut in small pieces cold chicken. Put them in a sauce 
pan, add some butter, add a few mushrooms, cut in 
pieces, cook ten minutes. Then add boiling milk and 
some bread crumbs, add some chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper and two eggs well beaten. Put in the shells, 
put over top a littie butter and dry bread crumbs. 
Bake from 10 to 20 minutes. 



CORRECTIONS. 



Paces 1 13. 165. 439. 440-Recipe8 for Broiled MmihrooaB. Hint JeUv 
Gliiffep CooWei.. Molasses Cake and Apple Sauce, Mlumid l^ 
attributed to Mrs. T. (Talbot) R. Chambers 



HUSHBOOMS UNDER GLASS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Take large thick mushrooms. Trim off the stems and 
carefully pare the caps. On each glass or earthen dish 
arrange a thin slice of toast, cover it with a few spoon- 
fuls of cream and dust with salt and pepper. On it 
place as many mushrooms as it will hold, cover with 
the globe and place in a hot oven for 15 to 20 minutes^ 



112 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

one hour. Skim off the fat and add the chestnuts^ some 
salt and paprika and a little more water, if necessary, 
and let them cook slowly until the chestnuts are tender. 
Ilemove the last drop of fat before sending the casse- 
role to the table. 

STUFFED CHOPS. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 

Make a stuflBng of fine bread crumbs, with a little 
chopped ham, parsley, one half an onion, and a green 



.^U^ ^..:--. -^ a- 



uie uune removea. Spread them with a mixture of 
cold boiled tongue, chopped fine, and seasoned with pep- 
per and blanched almonds, chopped very fine. The cut- 
lets are rolled as tight as possible, tied and simmered 
until tender in stock enough to cover them. The stock 
may be seasoned with one-half sliced onion, a bay leaf, 
a root of celery and four cloves. Allow the cutlets to 
lie in the stock until cold. Then slice thin and garnish 
with nasturtiums or olives and watercress. 



ENTREES. 113 

SHELLS OF GHIOKEN. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's French Chef. 

Cut in small pieces cold chicken. Put them in a sauce 
pan, add some butter, add a few mushrooms, cut in 
pieces, cook ten minutes. Then add boiling milk and 
some bread crumbs, add some chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper and two eggs well beaten. Put in the shells, 
put over top a little butter and dry bread crumbs. 
Bake from 10 to 20 minutes. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs. T. W. Chambers. 

Skin the mushrooms, and remove the stems which 
put on to boil just covered with water. Broil the mush- 
rooms three minutes. Brown a tablespoonful of butter 
in a frying pan and add a little flour to thicken, add 
half a teaspoon of beef extract and the water in which 
the stems have been boiled. Into this put the broiled 
mushrooms for about three minutes. Have ready round 
slices of toast on which put a slice of broiled mushroom. 
Strain the juice over them through a fine strainer. One- 
quarter pound will serve five people. 

MUSHROOMS UNDER GLASS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Take large thick mushrooms. Trim off the stems and 
carefully pare the caps. On each glass or earthen dish 
arrange a thin slice of toast, cover it with a few spoon- 
fuls of cream and dust with salt and pepper. On it 
place as many mushrooms as it will hold, cover with 
the globe and place in a hot oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 



114 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs. Egbert's Cook. 

Select twleve mushrooms as large as possible. Gut off 
the heads, pare the edges, and wash them. Clean the 
stalks, wash with the parings, and chop very fine. 
Squeeze out the water. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan with one tablespoonful of chopped onion. Pry 
a little, then stir in the chopped mudirooms, and fry 
until almost dry. Sprinkle with one-half ounce of flour. 
Then mix well and moisten with a little broth and 
sherry, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg, also a little chopped parsley. Stir and 
boil until quite thick. When this mixture is partially 
cool, fill the mushroom heads. Place them in a baking 
dish, sprinkle each with bread crumbs and a small piece 
of butter. Bake in moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 
Place on a dish, pour Espagnole sauce round them, 
and garnish with quarters of lemon. 

SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Allow four mushrooms for each sweetbread. Parboil 
the sweetbreads and then brown them in the oven, 
basting often with plenty of butter and the juice in the 
pan; season with salt and pepper. 

While the sweetbreads are browning, cook the mush- 
rooms in a double boiler with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and a little salt until tender. Place a browned 
sweetbread in the center of a square of toast and on each 
comer of the toast, place a mushroom. When all the 
sweetbreads and mushrooms have been used, stir one 



ENTREES. 115 

half pint of rich cream into the mushroom liquor and 
allow it to boil up once. Then pour the sauce over the 
sweetbreads and mushrooms. Place all in the oven for 
five or ten minutes. These are particularly nice if the 
final heating is done under individual glass bowls and 
served very hot. 

SWEETBBEADS LABDED AND BAKED. 

Mrs, George T. Smith. 

When the sweetbreads have been cleaned, draw 
through each one four very thin pieces of pork, (about 
the size of a match). Drop them into cold water for 
five or ten minutes, then into hot water and boil twenty 
minutes. Take out, spread with butter, dredge with 
salt, pepper and flour, and bake twenty minutes in a 
quick oven. Serve with green peas, well drained, season 
with salt and butter, and heaped in the center of the 
dish. Lay the sweetbreads around them and pour a 
cream sauce around the edge of the dish. Garnish with 
parsley. One pint of cream sauce is suflScient for eight 
or ten sweetbreads. 

MU8HB00MS WITH SWEETBBEAD FILLING FOB PATTIES. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York. 

Cut fresh mushrooms in small pieces. Pour boiling 
water over them and simmer for ten minutes. Drain, 
take same quantity of blanched sweetbreads cut in dice, 
and simmer until thoroughly cooked. Then add to 
mushrooms. Prepare a cream sauce made from a table- 
spoonful of butter, melted without browning, a table- 
spoonful of flour, one cup of cream. When sauce be- 



116 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

gins to thicken, add mushrooms and sweetbreads. Take 
from fire, add salt and pepper to taste. Fill patty cases 
at once and serve. 

8WBETBREAD IN PBPPEB8. 

Mrs. Sheridan Bdketel. 

Parboil sweetbread, cool and cut in small pieces; 
there should be at.least a cupful. Melt two tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and pour 
on gradually one half cup chicken stock; then add two 
tablespoonfuls heavy cream, and one-third cup mush- 
rooms, broken in small pieces. Season with salt, pa^ 
prika and Worcestershire sauce. Cut a slice from stem 
end of six peppers, remove seeds and parboil fifteen 
minutes. Cool, fill, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake until crumbs are brown. Break stems of mush- 
rooms, cover with cold water, and cook slowly twenty 
minutes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add a few 
drops onion juice, two tablespoonfuls flour and pour on 
gradually the water drained from mushroom stems, 
and enough chicken stock to make one cup. Add one- 
quarter cup heavy cream, and season with salt and 
paprika. Pour sauce around peppers. 

OBOQUETTES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Hugo Tieman. 

Take four veal sweetbreads, soak for an hour in cold 
salted water, first removing the pipes and membranes, 
then put them into boiling salted water with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and cook them tweniy minutes. 
Then drop them again into cold wate» to harden. Now 



ENTREES. 117 

remove them^ chop them very fine almost to a paste. 
Season with salt^ Pepper and a teaspoonful of grated 
onion. Add the beaten yolk of three raw eggs, one 
tablespoon of butter^ half a cup of cream and sufficient 
fine cracker crumbs to make stiff enough to roll out 
into little balls or cork shaped croquettes. Have ready 
a frying kettle half full of fat over the fire, a dish con- 
taining three smoothly beaten eggs, a large platter of 
cracker dust, wet the hands with cold water and make 
the mixture in shape, afterwards rolling them in the 
cracker dust, then into beaten egg and again in the 
cracker dust, smooth them on the outside and drop 
carefully in the hot fat. When the croquettes are fried 
a nice golden brown, put them on a brown paper a mo- 
ment to free them from grease. Serve hot with sliced 
lemon or parsley. 

SWEETBREADS A LA GBEME. 

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. 

One pair of sweetbreads, one tablespoon of butter, 
six mushrooms, one tablespoon flour, one-half pint 
cream. Parboil the sweetbreads in salted water, pick 
them to pieces, rejecting all the fine membranes, then 
chop rather fine ; chop the mushrooms fine also. Put the 
butter on to melt, be careful not to brown it; when 
melted add the fiour, mix until smooth, add the milk 
and stir continually until it boils, add the mushrooms 
and sweetbreads, and stir over the tea kettle for about 
five minutes ; add a half teaspoon of salt and a dash of 
white pepper. Serve in small dishes or on a platter. 



118 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN LIVERS EN BKOCHETTE WITH BACON. 

Filippini, (Delmonico's.) 

Procure eighteen fresh chicken livers; cut away the 
gall, dry them well with a clean doth, season with half 
a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cut each liver in 
two. Now prepare six slices of lean bacon, broil them 
for one minute, then cut each slice into six pieces. 
Take six silver skewers, run a skewer through the center 
of the liver, the same with a piece of bacon, and con- 
tinue the same process until the six skewers are each 
one filled with a piece of liver and a piece of bacon. 
Boll them on a dish with one tablespoonful of good oil, 
dip them in fresh bread crumbs, and put them on a 
moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each side. 
Arrange them on a hot dish, pour a gill of mattre 
dTi6tel butter over, and serve with a little watercress 
around the dish. 



STUFFED GBEEN PEPPERS (sWEBT). 

Miss Hellerman. 

Make a forcemeat of any cold meat, which you may 
have in the ice chest, chicken is most desirable, and mix 
with some cold ham. Chop very fine and add about one 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, a few sprigs of parsley, 
some rice if you have it. Cut the tops from the peppers 
with a sharp knife, remove seeds and fill with mixture. 
Put a piece of butter on top of each and place top on 
pepper. Fill a baking pan with tliem and put a little 
water in bottom of pan. Bake about forty-five minutes 
and serve hot. 



ENTREES. 119 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Mrs. Page, New Rochelle^ 

Eight peppers, one pint of meat chopped fine, one- 
half pint grated bread, one-half pint water or stock, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fifth teaspoonfnl of sa- 
vory, one-fifth teaspoonfnl of thyme, one-fifth teaspoon 
of sage, three tablespoonfuls of butter. Cover peppers 
with boiling water and simmer for one-fourth hour. 
Fill with stuffing and bake fifteen minutes. 

GBEEN PEPPEBS, STUFFED WITH NUTS. 

Excellent. 

Remove the seeds from peppers, pour boiling water 
over them, and let them stand for five minutes. Pill 
with the following: two-thirds chopped English wal- 
nuts, one-third fine bread crumbs, season with salt, 
paprika and make very soft with cream. Fill the pep- 
pers and stand in pan of hot water and bake twenty 
minutes. 

GREEN PEPPERS WITH CHICKEN. 

Excellent. 

Remove the seeds from pepper, pour boiling water 
over them and let stand five minutes. Chop cold boiled 
chicken very fine, and cream as for croquettes, only 
have cream sauce very stiflf. Fill pepper with mixture, 
moisten top with beaten egg, sift bread crumbs over top, 
stand in pan of hot water and brown in oven twenty 
minutes. 



120 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SPANISH EGGPLANT. 

Mertie, Mrs, Oould's Cook, 

Take a small egg plant, peel and cut in slices half an 
inch thick and let them stand in salted cold water for 
two hours. Then scald and peel four tomatoes and cut 
in pieces; place in a stew pan with three green peppers 
cut in small pieces half the size of wooden tooth pick, 
two small onions sliced thin, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
let these simmer for one and a half hours. Wipe egg 
plant dry and fry in hot butter, then lay a slice of cook- 
ed egg plant on platter. Take a perforated ladle full of 
the tomato mixture, draining from all juice, and place 
on slice of egg plant; continue this until three slices of 
egg plant* are used. Scramble two eggs and place on 
top layer of eggplant. Sprinkle with chopped olives 
and chopped Spanish peppers. Garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE. 

Mary, Mrs, Oould's Cook. 

Take a young chicken weighing about three pounds, 
place in a casserole dish, with potatoes, carrots and on- 
ions, cut in small balls. Add one-half cup green or 
canned peas, one-half bay leaf, small piece mace and 
season with salt and pepper. Add one-half cup of 
stock or hot water. Place in oven and cook slowly, 
until chicken and vegetables are tender. Let chicken 
cook one-half hour before vegetables are placed in the 
dish. 

CREAM CHICKEN OR SWEETBREADS WITH BORDER OP RICS. 

Mary, Mrs, Oould's Cook, 
Cream a desired quantity of chicken or sweetbread, by 



ENTREES. 121 

cutting in dice,mix with a rich cream sauce. Take a bor- 
der mould and fill with cold boiled rice. Place the 
border in boiling water until the rice is thoroughly 
warm, then remove from mould and place on dish on 
which it is to be served, fill center with creamed chick- 
en or creamed sweetbreads. If sweetbreads are desired, 
blanch them, cut in dice and mix with cream sauce. 

VEAL OR CHICKEN CSOQUEXTES. 

Mrs. r. K. Egbert, New York. 

Chop a coffee cup of cold veal, a little cold ham and 
three slices of onion, add a pinch of mace, and chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt and a pint of cream brought 
to a boil. Add one teaspoonful of cold butter to the 
above mixture, beat two eggs, mix with tablespoonful 
of com starch and add to the above. Cook ten minutes, 
stirring carefully. Remove from fire, when cold make 
in croquettes, and roll in flour, then egg, then cracker 
crumbs, put in ice box two hours. Place in wire basket. 
Fry in hot lard. Serve with cream sauce. Chicken 
croquettes may be made from above recipe by omitting 
ham and onion. 

VEAL OB CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 

Table Talk. 

Chop fine sufficient cold veal or chicken to measure 
one pint. Melt and mix together over the fire one table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour ; add one teaspoonful of 
salt, a half teaspoonful of white pepper and, gradually, 
one cupful of milk. When smoothly thickened simmer 
for a moment, add the chicken, stir well and set aside for 
ten minutes. Stir in lightly one tablespoonful of chop- 



122 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ped parsley and the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

CHICKEN WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Oavld's French Chef. 

Boil chicken whole in lukewarm water with salt and 
pepper, one or two claves, onion, and kitchen bouquet. 
Let simmer slowly until tender, cut into pieces to serve. 

Sauce. Melt piece of butter in a saucepan, add one 
tablespoon of flour, add water chicken was cooked 
in, yolk of two eggs mixed in some cream, added last, 
and pour over the chicken, add to the eggs and cream a 
little lemon juice, if liked, and mushrooms also, if 
liked. 

CHICKEN OB SWEETBBEAD MOUSSE. 

Mrs. Gould's French Chef. 

Take white part of chicken, hash it very fine and 
pass through a sieve, season with salt and pepper. Put 
in a sauce pan a piece of butter size of a walnut, mix 
with it a tablespoon of flour and add by little about one 
cup of milk, after it is thickened pour over the chicken, 
add to it the yolks of three eggs, beat the whites very 
stiff and mix through at the last minute. Butter the 
mould well (with hole in center of it), fill one-half 
full, put in a saucepan, so water comes one-half way 
up, cover top with buttered paper and boil slowly three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Sauce. One-quarter pound butter, one tablespoon of 
flour, milk, two yolks of eggs, beaten with a little cream, 
at last minute. 



ENTREES. 123 

TIMBAL OF OHIGKEN. 

Mrs. W. 8. Qoidd, New York. 

Breasts of two chickens groimd to a fine paste in a 
mortar, add three or four tablespoonfuls of cream, one 
teaspoonful (scant) salt, one teaspoonful (scant) of 
pepper, tiny pinch of red pepper, one-quarter teaspoon- 
ful Qf grated nutmeg. Put all through a colander or 
sieve. Whip whites of three eggs, stiff, add this to 
the mixture, little by little, until about consistency of a 
scouffle. Put in buttered timbal cups. Let cups stand 
in pan of hot water. Bake twenty minutes. Serve 
with a cream sauce. 

OHIOKEN PIE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

A pair of chickens will be needed for a large pie. 
Clean and disjoint them, then cover with boiling water 
and simmer until very tender. Remove the skin and 
some of the larger bones and stand the kettle aside until 
cool. In the meantime add to two quarts of sifted pas- 
try flour, one scant teaspoonful of salt and sufficient 
thick sweet cream to make a soft dough. Boll half of 
it quite thin and with this line bottom and sides of a 
deep earthen dish. Boll out the remainder, put over it 
three-quarters of a pound of butter cut into bits. 
Dredge lightly with flour, fold in three and roll out 
twice. Take one quarter of this short paste, roll thin, 
cut in long strips and put several rims round the paste 
in the dish, wetting each slightly with water to make 
it adhere. N'ow fill the dish with the chicken, seasoning 
highly with salt and pepper. Boll out the remainder 
of the paste and fit it over the. top of the pie, making 
an incision in the centre for the steam to escape. Brush 



124 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

over with milk and bake two hours in a moderate oven. 
Half of this quantity may be used for an ordinary size 
family. Potatoes, a few carrots and onions, cut in 
small balls, and a cup of peas are a great addition to 
this pie. 

VOL-AU-VENT OR BOUCHE A LA REINE. 

Mrs. Gould's French Chef, 

For Paste. One-half pound flour, salt, mix with 
cold water; let rest ten minutes, roll out and put one- 
half pound of butter in middle, fold crust over the but- 
ter, let rest ten minutes, roll back and forth very light- 
ly, then fold long way in three folds, rest and roll and 
fold this way six times. Cut crust round and put in 
round tins, bake slowly. Cut the little lid out of cen- 
ter. Filling the same as for timbal, add shrimps or 
white meat of any kind. 

WATER WAVE. 

Mrs. Ootdd's French Chef. 

Break six eggs in a dish, put same quantity of milk 
in another dish, then put both in a pitcher, stir in 
gradually about one pound of flour, always stirring 
one way, the batter must be of the consistency to pour 
through a funnel into boiling water with salt in it, 
while it is boiling, slowly moving the funnel around all 
the time. Boil about five minutes. Serve with boiled 
chickens, etc. Any dish with a gravy is best. 

CHICKEN AND RICE TIMBAL. 

Mertie, Mrs. Gould's Cook. 

Take one cup of cold boiled rice and line well butter- 
ed mould. For filling, cut in dice, cold chicken from 



ENTREES. 126 

breast and second joint, add little cold ham and few 
stewed mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Make cream sauce, add a tablespoon of white or 
brown stock. Mix chicken and cream sauce thoroughly, 
then place in mould, cover top with cold rice, set 
mould in pan of hot water and steam half an hour in 
oven. Cover top of mould with pan, turn mould on 
platter, garnish with parsley. 

BROILED KIDNEYS. 

Hannah, Mrs. Egbert* s Cook. 

Bemove the skin, split the kidney in halves. Soak 
over night in salted water. Dry, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, butter and roll in bread crumbs. Broil until 
tender and brown. Beat a small quantity of butter un- 
til creamy. Add some chopped parsley and a little 
lemon juice. Place about one teaspoonful on top of 
each kidney. Serve on toast. 

CLUB STEAK. 

Atlanta, Georgia. 

Two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, mix well together and rubbed thoroughly into 
both sides of porterhouse steak. Then sprinkle well 
with black pepper. Broil over a slow fire. Pour 
melted butter over it just before serving. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Mrs. WoodhuU Condict. 

Select a piece of the round of about eight pounds, re- 
move the meat around the bone carefully, keeping it 



126 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

whole as possible ; cut strips half an inch in width and 
the depth of the meat in lengthy of uncooked corned 
pork; run these strips into the beef from the top to the 
bottom, so that in slicing the meat it will cut nicely, 
and the more introduced the better the flayor. Then 
mix together one tablespoonful of ground allspice, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, five blades of mace, one table- 
spoon of summer savory, one tablespoonful of sweet 
marjoram, one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt; then make incisions in the beef and intro- 
duce through it the above articles well mixed together. 
This must be prepared the day before it is cooked, to 
allow of the flavor being communicated to the beef. 
Lay in the bottom of the stew pan some pieces of corn- 
ed pork cut in thin slices; on this lay the beef, having 
tied it tightly around with tape to keep it in good 
form; then make a little bunch of thyme and parsley, 
and lay it on the beef; slice two onions, scatter them 
over the beef, then pour over it one quart of cold water, 
and set this aside to simmer very slowly for four 
hours. It must be cooked with care and kept tightly 
covered. Half hour before dishing, pour oflE the gravy 
and skim all the fat off; strain it, and add a wineglass- 
ful of mushroom catsup to half pint of gravy, and stir 
in a spoonful of flour to thicken it; let this simmer a 
few minutes only, then pour it over the beef, removing 
the herbs and onions from the top, as they must not be 
served. 

ROLLED TONGUE. 

Mrs, Woodhull Condict 

While a boiled tongue is still warm, roll it, with the 
tip inside, and place it in a round tin just large enough 



ENTREES. 127 

to hold it in place; let it stand overnight^ when it will 
remain rolled after being removed from the pan. 
Senre it whole, on a bed of salad, or watercress, or 
parsley. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Mrs. W. A, Durrie. 
Three pounds lean beef (round), chopped fine, three 
eggs, six milk crackers, rolled fine, one-half cup butter, 
one teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon sage, one-half tea- 
spoon cloves, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one table- 
spoon salt. Chop all together, press into pan and bake 
one and one-quarter hours, basting with butter. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. 0. H. Perry. 
Three pounds veal, one pound salt pork, chopped 
together, six milk crackers, rolled fine, two well beaten 
eggs, butter size of an egg, a little chopped onion, nut- 
meg flavoring, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well to- 
gether, press into a pan with a little water and crumbs 
on the top. Bake and baste often. To be eaten cold. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. W. 8. Oould, New York. 
Three pounds veal cutlet, one-quarter pound salt 
pork, chopped fine, three eggs, well beaten, one cup 
rolled crackers, salt and pepper. Stir all together and 
bake one hour and a quarter. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. C. M. Oovld, Bayside, L. /. 
Take an old fowl and boil down to one pint of liquor, 
let this get cold. Remove grease, add one-half package 
of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in cold water. Heat the 



128 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

liquor, stir in the gelatine, then pour in a mold, add 
pieces of the fowl cut up in star and dice shape, put 
on ice for eight hours. Serve with hard boiled egg over 
the top, grated very fine. This may be used in timbals 
also. 

TIMBALE OF MACARONI. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's French Chef. 

Cook macaroni in boiling water with salt, strain it. 
Cut in small pieces a few mushrooms washed in water 
with a few drops of vinegar. Put a piece of butter in 
a saucepan, then take mushroms out of water, put them 
in with the butter, put on side of stove so the juice will 
come out and cook slowly about fifteen minuets, then 
sprinkle one tablespoonful of flour over the mushrooms, 
then add a little hot boiling water or boiling stock, add 
salt, pepper, spice of all kinds and lemon. Let it boil 
up again. Take yolk of one egg, mix it with cream 
enough to mix well. Take oflf mushroom sauce from fire, 
cool a minute, then add yolk and cream to it. Put 
into the timbale dish a little piece of butter, some of the 
macaroni and sauce alternately, until all is in. Bake 
one-half hour, slowly. Serve in the same dish. 



TIMBALES OF SPAGHETTI. 

{Mary, Mrs. Gould's Cook.) 

Cook a package of spaghetti broken in pieces, in 
boiling salted water. Drain and lay in cold water, dry 
on towel. Place it with a half-pound of English or 
American cheese, cut in pieces, on stove until cheese is 
melted, allow it to cool. Grease individual timbale 



ENTREES. 129 



moulds, place spaghetti mixture in them. Put them 
in a pan of hot water ; place in oven until thoroughly 
heated. Serve as an entree on a platter with a cheese 
sauce. 

VEAL MOUSSE. 

Mrs. P. V. M., Chicago, III. 

Take a half pound of absolutely lean, trimmed veal, 
preferably from the leg (the cutlet portion). Put it 
through the food chopper twice, then pound to a paste 
and rub through a purte sieve. Put the smooth paste 
in a bowl, add the unbeaten white of an egg and 
pound until thoroughly mixed. Add one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, ten drops of 
onion juice and two tablesponfuls of thick cream Now 
add alternately the unbeaten whites of three more eggs 
and six tablespoonfuls of cream (which should be as 
heavy as possible). In a shallow saucepan heat a little 
water to the simmering point. Drop in about a half- 
teaspoonful of the mixture and poach it very gently 
for ten minutes Break open and note its condition; 
if too firm the mixture needs a little more cream, if 
not sufl5ciently consistent more egg white. When the 
test is satisfactory butter small mqulds and decorate 
sides and bottom with sliced trufile cut in fancy shapes. 
Carefully j&ll with the veal mixture, stand in a shallow 
pan partly filled with hot water. Cover with a sheet 
of buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven until 
the centers feel firm when lightly pressed; this will 
take from ten to fifteen minutes according to size. 
Turn out carefully on a hot platter and serve with a 
cream, bechamel, allemande or tomato sauce. 



130 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

JELLIED VEAL MOUSSE. 

Mrs. P. V. M., Chicago, III. 

Chop fine suflScient cold cooked veal to measure 
two cupfuls; pound to a paste, mix gradually with it 
one cupful of well flavored veal stock, heat to steam- 
ing point and rub through a fine sieve, forcing through 
as much pulp as possible. Add one-half teaspoonful of 
onion juice and twice the quantity of lemon juice. Add 
one-quarter of a package of granulated gelatine which 
has been soaked in a quarter of a cupful of cold water, 
stir over the fire until dissolved then set aside to cool. 
In the meantime line a plain, round or oval mould with 
liquid aspic and ornament the bottom with tiny stars 
and other fancy shapes, cut from thin slices of truffle; 
stand on ice until the jelly has stiffened. When the 
chicken mixture shows signs of thickening stand the 
bowl in a pan of crushed ice and whip slowly and 
steadily until it is frothy and light; add a half cupful 
of stiffly whipped cream and continue whipping until 
it begins to set. Turn carefully into the prepared mould 
and leave undisturbed until firm. To unmould wipe 
the outside of the mould with a cloth wrung out of 
warm water, invert on a platter and turn out carefully. 

BRAISED lamb's TONGUES. 

Table Talk. 

When a number of lambs' tongues can be procured 
they can be made into a good and substantial dish. 
Wash them, cover with boiling water, add a half-tea- 
spoonful of salt and simmer for two hours. Let stand 
until cool enough to handle, then skin and trim away 
the roots of the tongues. Make a sauce with two table- 



ENTREES. 131 



spoonfulfi of butter, two of flour, one cupful of the pot 
liquor and one cupful of strained tomato. Add a bay- 
leaf, four cloves, a blade of mace, two sprigs of parsley, 
half of an onion and salt and pepper to taste. Put the 
tongues in a braising pan or any heavy baking dish, 
pour the sauce over them, cover closely and cook in a 
very moderate oven for two hours longer. Serve with 
the sauce strained round them. 

TIMBALE OF TONGUE WITH SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seely'a Cook Book. 

Place two poxmds of smoked boiled tongue and the 
breast of one medium-sized raw chicken in a mortar, and 
pound until smooth. Then stir in two tablespoons of 
flour, the whites of two eggs, one cup of cream, one table- 
spoon of Breton red coloring, a little salt and pepper, 
and a dash of cayenne. Press through a pur6e sieve. 
Then stir in one cup of whipped cream. Decorate the 
bottom of a buttered mould with pieces of trufBes. 
Fill with the tongue and chicken mixture. Cover with ' 
buttered paper. Place in a pan of water and in a mod- 
erate oven; cook it for half an hour. 

BAKED MACARONI AND OYSTERS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Break one-third of a package of macaroni in short 
pieces; drop into boiling salted water and keep at a 
galloping boil until tender. Drain and rinse well in 
cold water, then drain again. Pick over three dozen 
oysters of medium size; rinse and drain them. Scald 
the liquor, skim thoroughly and strain. Make a cupful 



132 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and a half of cream sauce, using equal proportions 
of milk and the oyster liquor. Butter a deep dish and 
fill it with alternate layers of the macaroni, oysters, 
seasoning, a spoonful of chopped celery and sauce. 
Sprinkle the top with a third of a cupful of fine bread 
crumbs mixed with one teaspoonful of melted butter 
and brown in a quick oven. 

liARBOW TOAST. 

Mrs. T. K. EgleH, New York. 

For six portions, two marrow bones, and cover each 
end of bones with a paste of flour dough to be re- 
moved when bones are cooked. Boil briskly for three- 
quarters of an hour, then scrape out marrow. Mix 
with little butter, salt and cayenne pepper. Serve hot 
on toast. 

HUNGARIAN OOULA6H. 

Mrs. Ralph Stauffen, Providence, R. I. 

One tablespoon butter, one and one-half pounds beef, 
cut in squares, one thin slice of lemon, three-quarters 
bay leaf, one whole clove, one onion, cut in slices. Heat 
butter in frying pan, add meat and seasoning, fry until 
brown on all sides. Add littie hot water and sprinkle 
over all small amount of flour, let cook until gravy 
is thickened. Season well with salt and pepper. Re- 
move meat and gravy to a pot, with tightly fitting cover, 
let simmer two and a half hours. When it is ready to be 
served, garnish with toast cut in points. 

VEAL PIE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Take a Ireast of veal, cut in pieces two inches square. 
Add salt, place in stew pan, cover with hot water and 



ENTREES. 133 



simmer. Skim thoroughly. When veal is very tender re- 
move from fire, place in pudding dish, add some chopped 
ham, potatoes cut in squares, chopped onion, a few 
pieces of butter the size of a hickory nut, or salt pork 
cut in small pieces put over top. Pepper and salt, 
dredge with flour, then fill nearly to top with water, in 
which veal was cooked, cover dish with puflf paste, cut 
slit in center of crust Bake one hour in quick oven. 



HAM TIHBALS. 

Miss Sutton, Rye, N, Y. 

Put a cup of cold boiled ham twice through a meat 
chopper and then pound to a paste. Blend in a sauce 
pan four tablespoonfuls of flour and four of butter. 
When dissolved add a cup of boiled milk and cook to 
a cream. Season with a dash of lemon juice, salt and 
pepper, then put in the ham and stir well. Take 
from the fire and add the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, beat until cold. Then fold in the whites of the 
eggs, also well beaten, and pour into buttered timbal 
moulds. Set in pan filled with hot water and bake from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out on a platter and 
pour around them a cup of rich cream sauce. 

LIVER ROLLS. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. T. 

Wash and pour boiling water over the liver for five 
minutes, then dry with a cloth. Cut the liver in strips 



134 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

four inches long and two inches wide^ and slice bacon 
and roll it inside the liver and tie with a piece of string. 
Pry in bacon fat. Salt and pepper the bacon before 
rolling. 

EGOS WITH CELERY. 

Mrs. C. B. Alexander, Hoboken. 

Boil for fifteen minutes, in a quart of white broth, 
two heads of well washed and neatly pared sound cel- 
ery, remove it from the broth, then cut it up in one 
inch length pieces and return it to the pan with the 
broth in which it was first boiled, leaving it on the hot 
stove. Season with one pinch of salt and the third of 
a pinch of white pepper. Eeduce to three quarters, 
(which will require ten minutes). Add a gill of hot 
b6chamel sauce, let come to a boil. Poach twelve fresh 
egg8> neatly arrange them on a hot dish, crown like. 
Pour the celery sauce right in the center and serve 
very hot. 

EGGS COCOTTE A LA CREME 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Take individual porcelain sauce pans and rub them 
well inside with butter, then break two eggs in each 
sauce pan, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and a 
small piece of butter. Have ready a pan of hot water; 
put the sauce pans in it, and put them in the oven from 
one to two minutes. When done, pour heavy cream 
over the top of the eggs and serve hot. 



ENTREES. 186 



EGGS A LA BENEDICTINE. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York. 

Take one-half English mufiSn, toast lightly on one 
side^ place on top of this a thin piece of broiled ham, 
on the ham place a poached egg. Pour over the ham and 
egg Hollandaise sauce. Senre hot. 

CUBBY OF LAMB WITH ASPABAGU8 TOPS. 

Mrs. M. F. Halsey, Newark, N. J. 

Cut three and a half pounds of shoulder of lamb in 
two-inch squares. Wash thoroughly and drain. Place 
in a saucepan with enough water to cover. Let them 
come to a boil. Drain and wash again. Then cover 
them with boiling water, one and a half tablespoonfuls 
of salt, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of pepper, five 
small onions, and a bouquet. Let all cook and steam 
for forty-five minutes. Strain the liquid into another 
saucepan with one-half pint of white sauce. Stir xm- 
til it boils and then stand where it will keep warm. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs and the juice of half a 
lemon together. Gradually stir this into the sauce. 
Pour over the lamb. 

calf's BBAINS a la VINAIGRETTE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Wash three good-sized calves' brains, remove the 
skins, and then wash again. Drain thoroughly. Put 
them in a saucepan and cover with fresh Vater, three 
small pinches of salt, half a cup of vinegar, one carrot 
sliced, a dozen whole peppers, sprig of thyme, and one 
bay leaf. Cook for ten minutes. Drain thoroughly. 
Cut each brain in half. Serve hot on a folded napkin 



136 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

on a dish, with shavings of fresh horseradish, and vinai- 
grette sauce in a sauce-boat. Garnish with parsley. 



FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Buy the short fillet under the rump, using two if 
necessary. Wipe, remove the fat and veins and ten- 
dons in the middle, and have* it well larded with thin 
strips of pork. All this can be done by the butcher. 
Then rub the fillet well with salt and pepper. Put two 
slices of fat pork in baking pan with one slice of onion 
and a bit of bay leaf. Place the meat in the pan and 
bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes. Baste often, and 
serve with mushroom sauce poured round the meat. 

ENGLISH MUTTON CHOPS EN CASSEROLE. 

Table Talk. 

Take half a dozen loin chops which are almost two 
inches thick. Heat a frying pan smoking hot, lay in 
two or three chops at a time, and sear and brown as 
quickly as possible. As the chops are quite fat, pour 
off any extra amount which oils in the pan. Arrange 
in a good sized casserole, add a cupful of parboiled 
potato balls, a half cupful each of diced carrots and 
white turnips half cooked, a small bouquet of herbs. 
Pour over a pint of rich brown sauce, made with 
one-quarter strained tomato, cover closely and cook 



ENTREES. 137 



two hours in a moderate oven. In the meantime peel 
two dozen button onions; cover with boiling water 
and let stand for five minutes, then drain Arrange 
Ihem in a deep spider just large enough to contain them 
when fitted close together; sprinkle with salt, white 
pepper and two tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. 
Drop 'n -.": one side a tablespoonful of butter and place 
v^^ rdii where they will cook very slowly without bum- 
xUg. Shake gently from time to time and turn, that 
they may be evenly colored. They should be tender 
and browned in half an hour. Fifteen minutes before 
serving add these to the contents of the casserole and 
finish the cooking, sending the dish to the table without 
uncovering. 



MEATS. 



CHAPTER XI 

BOAST BEEF. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

The best cuts of beef for roasting are : tip or middle 
of sirloin, back of rump, or first three ribs. Tip of sir- 
loin roast is desirable for a small family. Back of rump 
makes a superior roast for a large family, and is more 
economical than sirloin. It is especially desirable where 
a large quantity of dish gravy is liked, for in carving, 
the meat juices follow the knife. Rib roasts contain 
more fat than either of the others, and are somewhat 
cheaper. 

To Roast Beef : Wipe, put on a rack in dripping pan, 
skin side down, rub over with salt, and dredge the meat 
and pan with flour. Place in hot oven, that the sur- 
face may be quickly seared, thus preventing escape of 
inner juices After flour in pan is browned, reduce 
heat, and baste with fat which has tried out; if meat 
is quite lean, it njay be necessary to put trimmings of 
fat in pan. Baste every ten minutes. If this rule is 
followed, meat will be found more juicy. When meat 
is about half done, turn it over and dredge with flour, 
that skin side may be uppermost for final browning. If 
there is danger of flour burning in pan, add a small 
quantity of water; this, however, is not desirable, and 
seldom need be done if size of pan is adapted to size of 



140 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

meat. Beef to be well roasted Bhould be started in hot 
oven and heat decreased, so that when carved the slices 
will be red throughout, with a crisp layer of golden 
brown fat on the top. Beef roasted when temperature is 
so high that surface is hardened before heat can pene- 
trate to the centre is most unsatisfactory. Sirloin or 
rib roasts may have the bones removed, and be rolled, 
skewered, and tied in shape. Chicago Butt is cut from 
the most tender part of back of rump. They are shipped 
from Chicago, our greatest beef center, and if fresh and 
from a heavy creature, make excellent roasts at a small 
price. 

Boast Beef Gravy : Remove some of the fat from pan, 
leaving three tablespoonfuls. Place in front of range, 
add three tablespoons flour, and stir until well browned. 
The flour, dredged and browned in pan, should give 
additional color to gravy. Add gradually one and one- 
half cup of water, cook Ave minutes, season with salt 
and pepper, and strain. If flour should bum in pan, 
the gravy will be full of black particles. 

BOAST BEEF. 

Marian Rarland. 

A great deal depends upon the weight and quality of 
a piece of beef in determining how long it should be 
cooked. One commonly allows nine minutes to the 
pound for a rib or loin roast if it is to be rare, and 
twelve minutes to the pound if you wish it an even red 
all the way through. A roast cut from the round, or 
rump, will take forty minutes longer than the first- 
named cuts. Rub the top and sides of the beef with 
salt and pepper, put a few small pieces of butter over 



MEATS. 141 

the top, and place it in a dripping pan. Pour about two 
tablespoonfulg of hot water in the pan, and put in hot 
oven with a steady heat. Baste frequently while the beef 
is cooking. If the top burn, open the oven door a little. 
When cooked, place on a hot platter. Sprinkle flour in 
a dripping pan, stir constantly, and add enough boiling 
water to make the gravy or sauce the right thickness. 
Strain and serve in separate dish. Any other sauce may 
be served with the above. Sometimes the platter is 
garnished with potatoes which have been roasted in the 
pan with the beef ; if so, do as follows : Select and peel 
medum-size potatoes. About half or three-quarters 
of an hour before the beef is served, cut the potatoes in 
two, lengthwise, and place in the pan around the beef. 
Turn and baste them frequently. If desired, garnish 
dish with Yorkshire pudding, m^ide as follows: 

T0EK8HIBE PUDDING. 

Marian Harland, 

Have at hand one and one-half pints of milk, six large 
tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and one saltspoon- 
ful of salt. Put the flour and salt in a bowl, and stir 
gradually to this enough milk to make a stiff batter. 
When this is perfectly smooth and all the lumps are 
dissolved, add the remainder of the milk and a well- 
beaten egg. Whisk the mixture, and pour it into a well- 
buttered, shallow tin. Bake for an hour. Then for 
another half hour, place it in the pan underneath the 
meat, so that it will catch a little of the juice from it. 
Cut the puding in small, square pieces, put them on a 
hot dish, and serve. If the meat is baked, the pudding 
may at once be placed under it. 

Never wash a raw roast, at least not the parts unpro- 



142 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

tected by the thin skin. Wipe the skin oflf with vinegar, 
dry with a soft cloth, and lay the meat, cut sides at top 
^nd bottom, upon the grating of your roaster. Dash a 
cupful of really boiling water over it. They cicatrice 
the surface and keep in the juices. Dredge with flour, 
cover and cook ten minutes to the pound, turning all tlie 
heat into the oven for flfteen minutes; then shift into a 
slower oven, or "dampen" the fire. Baste every ten min- 
utes with the gravy dripping into the pan. Ten min- 
utes before dishing the meat, wash freely with butter 
and dredge with browned flour, to "glaze" the roast. 

Never serve "made gravy" with roast beef. Pour the 
liquid from the pan into a bowl, and when the fat is 
solid, remove it and clarify for dripping. The residuum 
will add richness to your soup stock, or make a savory 
base for stew or hash. 

Serve horseradish sauce and mustard with your rare 
roast> and put a little of the ruddy juice, which exudes 
as the meat is carved, upon each slice when served. 

YOEKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Miss Stella F. Flanagan, 

One cup flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-half pint milk, two eggs. 
Put one cup of beef drippings in pan about nine inches 
square, then pour in batter and bake twenty minutes in 
hot oven. Cut in squares and serve immediately. 

POT ROAST. 

Mrs. Hoover, Buffalo, N. Y. 

For five pounds of round beef. Brown the roast oflf 
in the kettle, then add four cups of cold water, two 
large onions, six cloves in each onion, salt and pepper, 



MEATS. 143 



one large bay leaf crashed, one cup tomatoes. Set 
kettle in oven and cook slowly three hours. One hour 
before done add four thin slices of bread. Strain gravy< 

WILLIAM H. OKANE's POT ROAST. 

From Good Housekeeping. 

The David Harum pot roast is prepared as follows: 
Lay a round of beef in a broad deep pot. Pour in a cup 
of boiling water and add two slices of onion ; cover close- 
ly and cook ten minutes to the pound.. Transfer to a 
dripping pan, rub with butter, dredge with flour and 
brown in a quick oven. Strain and cool the gravy left 
in the pot. Take oflE the pot, put the gravy into a sauce- 
pan. Season with pepper, salt, and a little kitchen 
bouquet and thicken with a tablespoon of brown roux. 
Boil up once and serve in a gravy boat, or pour round 
the base of the beef. 

POT ROAST OF COARSE BEEF. 

Marion Harland. 

Cut four pounds of coarse lean beef in one piece. Fry 
half a pound of fat salt pork in a rather shallow pot. 
Put in the beef, and cook fast on both sides for five min- 
utes. Cover with a chopped onion and a cupful of canned 
tomatoes, a sliced carrot and a sliced turnip. Now, pour 
in enough hot water to come half-way to the top of the 
meat; cover closely and simmer slowly for two hours, 
turning at the end of the first hour. Take out the beef ; 
rub with butter, pepper and salt, and set in the oven 
while you skim and strain the gravy, rubbing the vege- 
tables with it through a colander. Put this back into 
the pot, thicken with browned flour, boil up once ; pour 
half QY^r tbe m^^t and serve the rest in a gravy-boat. 



144 KIRMESS CCX)K BOOK. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Marion Harland. 

Have a solid piece cut from the round, and tie into 
shape with stout cords at intervak of an inch apart. 
Plug the meat perpendicularly with strips of fat salt 
pork, long enough to project half an inch at top and 
bottom. Make incisions clear .through the beef with a 
sharp, thin knife, and fill these with forcemeat made 
of fat pork, minced, onion and bread-crumbs, sharply 
seasoned. Lay the meat in a braising-pot, cover deep 
with chopped onion, carrot, turnip, celery, three bay- 
leaves, a sliced tomato, and sprinkle with mace and 
paprika. Now pour in a cupful of cold water, cover 
closely and cook slowly fifteen minutes to the pound. If 
you wish to serve hot, clip the threads; rub the gravy 
through a colander, let it cool a few minutes to throw up 
the fat; skim, and thicken with browned flour, and 
pour half over the meat, half into a gravy-boat. It is, 
however, nicer if left to get cold in the gravy, with a 
heavy weight on top, until next day. Then remove the 
cords, and cut in tiiin, horizontal slices. An underdone 
roast can be metamorphosed in this way for a second- 
day*s dinner. 

CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. O. L, McDowell, Philadelphia. 
Boiled Dinner. Put meat on, after washing well, in 
enough cold water to just cover the meat ; as soon as it 
boils set kettle on the stove where it will simmer or boil 
very slowly; boil until almost tender, put in vegetables 
in this order: Quartered cabbage, medium sized tur- 
nips, halved; whole potatoes. Peel potatoes and turnips 



MEATS. 145 



and allow to lie in cold water for half an hour before 
using. Skim meat well before adding vegetables. Boil 
together until thoroughly done, adding a little salt be- 
fore taking out of kettle, where there should be left 
only just enough water to prevent burning; take up 
vegetables in separate dishes, and lastly the meat If 
there is any juice in the kettle pour it over cabbage. Boil 
cabbage an hour, turnips and potatoes half an hour. 
Soup plate or saucer, upside down, should be placed 
in bottom of kettle to keep meat from burning. 

BROILED STEAK. 

When broiling, be sure to have a clear red bed of 
coals. Grease the wires of your broiler and place your 
steak on it. Hold each side over the extreme heat for a 
minute at a time, continue this for four or five min- 
utes. Then hold the broiler farther away from the coals 
and keep turning the steak every minute or two until 
steak is cooked. Bemove to a platter, season with salt 
and pepper. Sprinkle generously wilh pieces of butter. 
When the butter is melted, serve plain, or with any 
sauce desired. The length of time a steak should be 
broiled depends entirely upon its thickness. A steak one 
inch and a half thick will cook underdone, or rare, in 
seven or eight minutes. Should you have a steak two 
and a half or three inches thick, ii is a good plan to be- 
gin cooking it in front of the coals. The center cooks, 
then it can be finished over the coals. 

BBOILED FILLET OF BEEF. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Cut three and one-half pounds of the tenderloin of 
beef in slices about three-fourths of an inch thick. Sea- 



146 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

son with salt and pepper. Broil for five or six minutes. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 



BEEFSTEAK AND FRIED ONIONS. 

Mrs, Seeley^s Cook Book, 

Put a kettle of fat on range where it will heat, peel 
and thinly slice two Spanish onions, place in frying 
basket. Broil the steak, and when meat is cooked move 
the ketter forward; when the fat is very hot, put the 
basket of onions into it, cook until crisp and brown. 
Drain and arrange them around the steak. 

STEAK A LA STANLEY. 

Miss Mclntoshj Buffalo, N, Y. 

Select an inch and a half or thicker steak. Broil, 
season, and place on hot platter. Peel and halve length- 
wise six bananas. Place in dripping pan and bake a 
delicate brown, basting frequently with butter and juice 
of one small lemon. Have ready some finely chopped 
parsley. Place bananas on steak, mix parsley with the 
remaining butter and lemon juice, and spread over 
bananas. Serve with horseradish sauce. 

STEAK EN CASSEROLE. 

A casserole is a round, rather shallow, earthenware 
dish, with a tightly fitting cover; it is invaluable for 
the long, slow cooking which makes tough meat palat- 
able and tender. For steak cooked in this way take a 
. thick cut from the upper or under lound, wipe and 
trim it. Have ready a very hot frying pan, and in it 
place the steak, turning several times until both sides 



MEATS. 147 



are seared and browned. In the bottom of the cas- 
serole place one carrot diced, one tablespoonful of 
chopped celery, a half teaspoonful of salt, half of a 
sweet red pepper cut in strips or a good seasoning of 
white pepper and a dozen tiny peeled white onions. 
On this arrange the steak, pour over a pint of good 
stock or stock and strained tomato. Cover and place 
in a moderate oven for two hours and a half. Send the 
casserole to the table as it comes from the oven. 
Tough poultry or meats may be cooked in the same 

manner. 

J 

BROILED STEAK WITH MARROW. 

In buying, select a marrow bone without any meat 
and have the butcher saw, not chop, it into three inch 
lengths. Wash the bones, scraping the ends to re- 
move tiny bits of bone; wipe dry and cover each end 
with a thick paste made with flour and cold water, 
then tie each in a piece of cheese cloth. Drop in boil- 
ing water and boil for half an hour. Remove* cloth 
and paste and shake out the marrow on a saucer, then 
keep it hot over water. To a good brown sauce add 
chopped mushrooms and olives, and simmer for five 
minutes. Trim from the steak any extra amount of 
fat, gash the gristly fat along the upper edge and ar- 
range in the greased broiler. Broil over a clear hot 
fire or under gas, turning every half minute; six to 
eight minutes will be required for a steak an inch and 
a half thick. When half done season both sides with 
salt and pepper. When done arrange on a heated 
platter, pour over it the sauce, and on this lay the 
marrow cut in inch bits. 



148 KIRMESS CCX)K BOOK. 

LAMB AND MUTTON- 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Lamb and mutton are divided into two parts, by cut- 
ting through entire lengtli of backbone, then subdivided 
into fore and hind quarter, eight ribs being left on hind 
quarter; while in beef but three ribs are left on hind 
quarter. These eight ribs are cut into chops and are 
known as rib chops. The meat which lies between these 
ribs and the leg, cut into chops, is known as loin, or 
kidney chops. Lamb and mutton chops cut from loin 
have a small piece of tenderloin on one side of bone, 
and correspond to porterhouse steaks in the beef crea- 
ture. Bib chops, which have the bone cut short and 
scraped clean, nearly to the lean meat, are called French 
chops. The leg is sold whole for boiling or roasting. The 
fore-quarter may be boned, stuflfed, rolled, and roasted, 
but is more often used for broth, stew or fricassee. For 
a saddle of mutton the loin is removed whole before 
splitting the creature. Some of the bones are removed 
and the flank ends are rolled, fastened with wooden 
skewers, and securely tied to keep skewers in place. 
Good quality mutton should be fine-grained and of 
bright pink color ; the fat white, hard and flaky. If the 
outside skin comes off easily, mutton is sure to be good. 
Lamb chops may be easily distinguished from mutton 
chops by the red color of the bone. As lamb grows older, 
blood recedes from bones ; therefore in mutton the bone 
is white. In leg of lamb the bone at joint is ser- 
rated, while in leg of mutton the bone at joint is 
smooth and rounded. Good mutton contains a larger 
proportion of fat than good beef. Poor mutton is often 
told by the relatively small proportion of fat and lean 



MEATS. 149 

as compared tc bone. Lamb is usually preferred well 
done ; mutton is often cooked rare. 

CROWN OP LAMB. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn. 

Twelve uncut chops^ arranged in circle ; this will take 
two loins, and have butcher chop through bones only. 
Cover bones with oiled paper to prevent scorching ; trim 
bones, tie in circle, meat inside, and bones standing up ; 
cover bones with pieces of salt pork, dust with pepper 
and salt, and bake an hour or more, basting often. Press 
potatoes through a potato-ricer, and it is ready to serve, 
or fill with peas. 

CROWN OP LAMB. 

Table Talk. 

Two racks of lamb, from seven to eleven ribs in each 
are required. Cover exposed ribs with thick strips of 
pork fat, when baking. Serve with a bunch of parsley 
in center and latticed potatoes (steamed) around the 
base. 

HIND QUARTER OP SPRING LAMB. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Select a medium-sized hind quarter of lamb. Trim 
the bone and place the flank over the ribs to prevent 
them from being cooked too much. Fasten all together 
securely. Season with one tablespoon of salt, rubbing it 
over the meat. Cover it with the thin fat and place it 
in a dripping pan with one tablespoonful of water. Place 
in a moderate oven and roast for one hour, basting it 
with its own drippings. Bemove the fat, cover the bone 



150 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

with paper ruffle, and serve on a hot dish. Skim the 
grease from the drippings and strain it over the lamb. 
Serve mint sauce with it, if wished. 

FAMILY STEW OF LAMB AND PEAS. 

Marion Harland, 

Cut two pounds of coarse lean lamb into dice. There 
must be neither fat nor bone in it. Fry a sliced onion 
brown in two tablespoonfuls of dripping or 
butter. Strain tlie fat back into the pan, dredge the 
meat with flour and fry for three minutes in it, turning 
to sear both sides. Turn meat and fat into a saucepan, 
add a cupful of stock or of butter and water, cover 
closely and stew for an hour, or until the lamb is ten- 
der. Put in then a cupful of green peas with three 
leaves of green mint. Cover again and cook until the 
peas are tender, but not until they break. Have ready a 
broad dish, lined with slices of toast soaked in tomato 
sauce. Take up meat and peas in a perforated skimmer 
and lay upon the toast. Keep hot, while you thicken the 
gravy left in the pot with a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in one of browned flour; season, boil up and pour over 
the stew. Let it stand one minute and serve. 

OASSEBOLE OF LAMB CHOPS. 

Marion Harland- 

Trim two pounds of lean chops and proceed as with* 
the meat in last recipe until they have been browned in 
the fat. Now turn meat and fat into your casserole, in 
the bottom of which is a layer of pared and sliced to- 
matoes. Have ready half a cupful of potato balls cut 
with a *'gouge" and parboiled for five minutes, a dozen 



MEATS. 151 

button onions, also parboiled, and half a can of cham- 
pignons (mushrooms). Sprinkle these over and be- 
tween the chops. Pour in a cupful of good stock, or 
gravy, well seasoned; lastly, another layer of sliced to- 
matoes, salted, peppered, sprinkled with sugar and dot- 
ted with butter. Cover the casserole and set in a mod- 
erate oven for two hours. Drain off all the gravy without 
disturbing the rest of the contents of the casserole. Skim, 
thicken with browned flour, add the juice of half a lem- 
on, boil up, pour in a glass of sherry, pour gently back 
into the casserole, cover, set in the oven for three min- 
utes and send to table covered. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OP LAMB- 

Marion Harland, 
Have the bone extracted neatly, and fill the cavity left 
with a stuflBng of a cupful of bread crumbs, a dozen 
raw oysters, chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
melted, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, one-half teaspoonful of paprika. 
Boast in a quick oven. Into two tablespoonfuls of 
softened butter mix one tablespoonful each of chopped 
parsley, onion, and lemon juice, and kitchen bouquet. 
Draw the meat, when done from the oven, spread it 
with this prepared sauce, and return to the oven for four 
minutes. Garnish with small round, fried potatoes. 
Send around green peas with it. 

BOILED LEG OP MUTTON. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book- 

Trim a medium-sized leg of mutton, put in a kettle 
with one bouquet and enough salted cold water to cover 
it. Boil for one hour and a half, or until tender. Serve 



152 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

with caper sauce^ made of plain cream sauce with ca- 
pers, or Hollandaise sauce, with a handful of capers 
added. The sauce must be served hot. 

ROAST MUTTON, BRETON STYLE. 

TMe Talk. 

The Breton way of serving roast mutton is to push 
a clove of garlic into the knuckle end of the leg and to 
serve with it a garnish of red beans. The beans are 
soaked and slowly boiled until tender, then drained, 
and turned into ihe pan with the meat an hour before 
the latter is done. Or, after draining, the beans are 
lightly fried in a little dripping and chopped onion and 
heaped round the meat as it is ready for serving. 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Trim a small saddle of Southdown mutton. Pull off 
the thin skin and make a small cut in the fat. Bemove 
nearly all the suet inside, also the kidneys. Tie firmly 
in a neat shape and roast in quite a hot oven for one 
hour and a half. Drain, and let it stand in a warm 
place for ten or fifteen minutes. Skim all the grease 
from the drippings, add a little fiour and stock, make a 
brown gravy, and serve in separate dish. Also serve 
currant jelly. 

MUTTON CHOPS BREADED, WITH CHEESE. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn. 

Loin chops are preferred; trim them and wipe with 
damp cloth; dip into melted butter and then roll in a 
mixture of equal parts of fine bread crumbs and grated 



MEATS. 163 

cheese, one capful in all; season with salt and pepper; 
broil over a clear fire; when cooked, place upon hot 
dish and pour over each chop a dessertspoonful of hot 
butter and a tablespoonful of hot catsup, and serve im- 
mediately. 

LAMB OB BEEF STEW. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

— ' • ^ ^- « ' i U^-* «^ ^^lA »nnaf. 



CORRECTION. 



^^K^ lS3-Lamb Stew, by Mrs. T. K. Egbert. Vegetables Bhould simmer 
until ttiorouffhly cooked. 



Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 

Cut cold roast lamb in thin slices. Put a layer in 
baking dish, season with salt, pepper, and bits of butter, 
then a layer of canned tomatoes, with seasoning, then 
meat. Cover with cold mashed potato, with bits of but- 
ter dotted over it. Put in the oven long enough to heat 
through, and brown slightly about fifteen minutes. 

VEAL. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Veal is the meat obtained from a young calf, killed 
when six to eight weeks old. Veal from a younger ani- 



154 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

mal is very unwholesome, and is liable to provoke serious 
gastric disturbances. Veal contains a much smaller per- 
centage bi fat than beef, or mutton; is less nutritious 
and (though from a young creature) more diflScult of 
digestion. Like lamb, it is not improved by long hang- 
ing, but should be eaten soon after killing and dressing. 
It should always be remembered that the flesh of young 
animals does not keep fresh as long as that of older 
ones. Veal is divided in same manner as lamb, into 
fore and hind quarters. The fore-quarter is sub-divided 
into breast, shoulder and neck; the hind-quarter into 
loin, leg and knuckle. Cutlets, fillets (cushion) and 
fricandeau are cut from the thick part of leg. Good 
veal may be known by its pinkish-colored flesh and 
white fat; when the flesh lacks color, it has ben taken 
from a creature which was too young to kill for food, or 
if of the right age, was bled before killing. Veal may be 
obtained throughout the year, but is in season during 
the spring. Veal should be thoroughly cooked; being 
deficient in fat and having but little fiavor, pork or 
butter should be added while cooking, and more sea- 
soning is required than for other meats. 

BOAST LEG OF VEAL. 

Mrs. Power, Bye, N. Y. 

Wipe a leg of veal with a damp cloth and place it in 
a covered roaster. Rub with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, cover it closely and cook at the rate of twenty 
minutes to the pound. Half an hour before the meat 
is taken from the oven, remove the cover from the roast- 
er, baste the meat with the gravy in the pan, and brown. 



MEATS. 155 



SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Mrs. John Atkinson, 

This may be roasted, like the leg, but is better for 
having the bone removed, and the cavity thus left filled 
with a filling made of bread-crumbs and chopped 
ham, seasoned to taste; or a filling of bread crumbs, 
chopped onion, sweet marjoram, salt and pepper. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Tested. 

Wipe the cutlets with a damp cloth, dip them, first, 
in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, and set in a cold 
place for an nour. Fry in drippings to a rich brown. 
Cook slowly that they may be thoroughly done. Lay for 
a moment on brown paper to drain free of grease, and 
put on a hot platter. Serve with tomato sauce. 

VEAL STEAKS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Marion Harland. 

Broil the steaks slowly over a clear fire, turning often 
that they may not scorch. When done, keep the meat 
hot on a platter in the oven while you make the follow- 
ing sauce : Drain the liquor from a can of mushrooms 
and cut the mushrooms in halves. Cook together a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of browned fiour until they 
are dark brown in color. Pour upon them the mush- 
room liquor and a cupful of beef stock. Stir to a smooth 
sauce, season with a dash of Worcestershire sauce, salt 
and pepper, and add the halved mushrooms. Cook tor 
two minutes, stirring constantly, tiien pour over and 
around the veal steaks. 



156 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

LABDED VEAL. 

Marion Harland. 

Have a solid piece cut from the thickest part of the 
shoulder. Lard at short intervals with strips of fat 
salt pork and put into your covered roaster with sliced 
carrot, onion, bits of celery and a few sprigs of parsley; 
over all pour a large cupf id of good stock, cover and cook 
slowly for about three hours. You should baste frequent- 
ly while cooking, and a short time before it is done re- 
move the cover, to cook the larding thoroughly and give 
a good color to the veal. Just before taking up pour out a 
cupful of gravy, skim off the fat and thicken with 
browned flour, add a great spoonful of tomato catsup, 
and simmer until you are ready to dish the meat. Pour 
then into a boat. 

PORK. 

Boston Cooking School Cooh Book. 

Pork is the flesh and fat of pig or hog. Different 
parts of the creature, when dressed, take different names. 
The chine and spareribs, which correspond to the loin 
in lamb and veal, are used for roasts or steaks. Two 
ribs are left on the chine. The hind legs furnish hams. 
These are cured, salted, and smoked. Sugar-cured hams 
are considered the best. Pickle, to which is added light 
brown sugar, molasses and saltpetre, is introduced close 
to bone; hams are allowed to hang one week, then 
smoked with hickory wood. Shoulders are usually 
corned, or salted and smoked, though sometimes cooked 
fresh. Pigs' feet are boiled until tender, split, and 
covered with vinegar made from white wine. Hocks, 
the part just above the feet, are corned, and much used 
by Germans. Heads are soused and cooked by boiling: 



MEATS. 167 



The flank, which lies just below the ribs, is salted and 
smoked and furnishes bacon. The best pififtes of fat 
salt pork come from the back, on either side of back- 
bone. Fat, when separated from flesh and membrane, 
is tried out and called lard. Leaf lard is the best, and 
is tried out from the leaf-shaped pieces of solid fat 
which lie inside the flank. Sausages are trimmings of 
lean and fat meat, minced, highly seasoned and forced in- 
to thin casings made of the prepared entrails. Little pigs 
(four weeks old) are sometimes killed, dressed and 
roasted whole. Pork contains the largest percentage 
of fat of any meat. When eaten fresh it is moat dif- 
cult of digestion, and although found in market through 
the entire year, it should be seldom served, and then 
only during the winter months. By curing, salting and 
smoking, pork is rendered more wholesome. Bacon, 
next to butter and cream, is the most easily assimilated 
of all fatty foods. 

BOILED HAM. 

Soak several hours, or overnight, in cold water to 
cover. Wash thoroughly, trim off hard skin near end of 
bone, put in a kettle, cover with cold water, heat to boil- 
ing point and cook slowly until tender. Remove the 
kettle from range and set aside, that ham may partially 
cool ; then take from water, remove outside skin, sprinkle 
with sugar and fine cracker crumbs, and stick with cloves 
one-half inch apart. Bake one hour in a slow oven. 
Serve cold, thinly sliced. 

ROAST HAM WITH CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Place a whole baked ham in the oven fifteen minutes 
before serving time, that outside fat may be heated. Be- 



158 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

move to a hot platter, garnish bone with a paper ruf- 
fle, and serve with champagne sauce. 



WESTPHALIAN HAM. 

These hams are imported from Germany and need 
no additional cooking. Cut in very thin slices for serv- 
ing. 

HAM, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Mt8, Whitiier. 

The ham should simmer two hours in cold water. Re- 
move that water for more cold water, enough to cover 
ham, and put with it the following : One cup of brown 
sugar, one quart of molasses, one-half pound of cinna- 
mon sticks, one-half pound of cloves, handful of bay 
leaves. Cook until done. Leave ham in that water 
one night. In the morning remove skin carefully, beat 
the white of an egg with bread crumbs and a little mus- 
tard, and cover tiie ham. Put in the pan one cup of 
sherry wine and baste ham until brown. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 

Boil the ham until tender. Take off the outside skin 
and some of the fat. Cover with a heavy layer of bread 
crumbs. Stick in whole cloves and dots of black pepper. 
Baste with one-half cup of vinegar and little water and 
one teaspoon sugar. Baste a little at a time. Leave it 
in the oven about an hour. Oven should not be too hot. 



MEATS. 159 



SUCKING PIG A LA BUSSE WITH HORSERADISH SAUOE. 

Mrs, Seeley's Cook Booh. 

Boil a fat sucking pig in a soup you have made of 
vegetables. To make the soup, use vegetables such as 
usually go to the making of vegetable soup,— carrots, 
turnips, etc., — ^a seasoning of onion, not forgeting a 
bouquet of majoram, thyme, summer savory, etc. Vine- 
gar should be added to the broth, and therefore a porce- 
lain kettle had best be used. When the pig is thorough- 
ly cooked — its tenderness is tested by a skewer or fork — 
carve it, sprinkle with parsley, pour the horseradish 
sauce, given below, over it, and serve. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Grate four tablespoonfuls of horseradish, mix with a 
little bouUion, fry in butter. Add several tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Set oflf the stove, add the yolks of a couple 
of eggs. Warm again, but do not boil. Delicious. 

ROAST PIG. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book, 

Select a pig about three weeks old. After it is thor- 
ouhly cleaned, washed, and dried, rub the inside with 
one teaspoonfiQ of salt. Fill it with bread forcemeat 
and sew up the opening. Press the fore feet forward 
and the hind feet backward. Skewer them in position, 
and place in a pan. Rub the entire body with melted 
butter, dredge it with salt and a little white pepper. 
Cover the ears and tail with buttered paper to keep them 
from crisping, and place a piece of wood in the mouth 
to keep it open. Bake in a moderate oven for three 



160 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

hours and a half, basting it frequently with melted but- 
ter. About one-half hour before it is thoroughly cooked 
remove the buttered paper that the ears and tail may 
become brown. When cooked, arrange on a platter, place 
a red apple or a piece of lemon in the mouth, and serve 
with apple sauce. 

GROWN OF PORK. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Trim and shape ten or twelve pork chops into a 
crown. Fill the center with a mixture of sausage meat 
and bread crumbs, moistened with egg. Boast in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour and three-quarters. Fry in but- 
ter fifty whole, small onions until a light brown, then 
cook them in stock until tender. Place some in the 
center of* the pork, the rest use for a garnish. Serve 
with Espagnole sauce. 

ROAST PORK. 

Mrs. F. B. Gray. 

Score the skin until the knife touches the meat imder 
it. Bub into these lines or squares a mixture of fine 
crumbs seasoned with onion juice, a little grated lemon- 
peel and the juice of half a lemon, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Work in well until the stuflBng stands out of 
the cracks. Put into your roaster, with a cupful of hot 
water under it, and after covering bring quickly to the 
point at which the water begins to steam. Slacken the 
heat then, and cook twenty-five minutes to the pound,* 
basting often with its own gravy. Pour ofE this gravy 
twenty minutes before taking the meat up, and set in 
a bowl of ice to send all the fat to the top. Greasy pork 
gravy is an offense to the educated palate. Thicken 



MEATS. 161 



with browned flour. A better plan is not to attempt to 
make gravy^ but to send around apple sauce alone with 
the roast 

CHINE OF POBK BRAISED WITH APPLES. 

Marion Harland. 

Instruct your butcher to cut the chine with plenty 
of meat on both sides of the bone. Sprinkle it well with 
pepper and salt, and lightly with sage and sweet marjo- 
ram. Pare, core and cut into thick slices, three large, 
tart apples. Cover the grating of your roaster with 
them, strew with sugar and lay the chine upon them. Dot 
the meat with butter; cover and roast twenty-five min- 
utes to the pound. At the end of that time transfer the 
meat to a dripping-pan, turning it over that the side 
which has lain upon the apples may be uppermost. Wash 
with butter, cover thick with salted and peppered crumbs, 
and brown upon the upper grating of a hot oven while 
you make the gravy. To do this, rub the cooked apple 
and the liquor with them through a colander into a 
saucepan, add a little hot water, a lump of butter rolled 
in flour, and, if very tart, a little sugar; pepper and 
salt to taste, boil up and turn into a boat. Serve peas, 
pudding or beans in some shape witli the chine. 

PORK TENDERLOINS. 

Marion Harland. 

Broil over a clear, steady fire, tumng as often as they 
begin to drip. Allow twenty minutes, if small; more 
when large. Lay upon a heated dish, cover with a mix- 
ture of butter, lemon juice, onion juice, pepper, salt 
and a dash of powdered sage. Turn over and over in 



162 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

this as it melts ; cover closely and leave over hot water 
several minutes to let the seasoning sink into the meat. 
Serve browned whole potatoes and apple sauce with 
them. 

AN ENGLISH PORK PIE. 

Marion Harlan d. 

Cook two pounds of lean pork for half an hour in 
enough weak stock to cover it. Let it get cold in the 
liquor (which reserve for the grav}'). Take out the cold 
meat and cut into neat dice. Butter a deep dish and lay 
in some of the meat. Cover with a layer of hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped coarsely ; season with onion juice, pepper, 
salt and a pinch of nutmeg. Stick bits of butter here 
and there. Dust with browned flour. Strain and reheat 
the liquor in which the meat was cooked ; stir in a lump 
of butter rolled in browned flour, cook one minute ; add 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce; pour into the 
pie, and let it cool before covering with a good paste. Cut 
a slit in the middle of the crust; bake, covered, three- 
quarters of an hour. Uncover, wash with white of egg, 
and brown. Send around apple sauce with it. 

SOUSED PIGS' FEET. 
Mrs. T. K. Egherty New York. 
Soak them in cold water for three hours, then wash 
and scrub them until they are clean. Soak in salted 
water over night, then put them in a kettle, cover with 
cold water and boil until tender. Boil a quart of best 
cider vinegar, with a dozen whole cloves, whole black 
pepper and a little sliced onion (if liked), season with 
salt and pepper and pour into a stone pot and add the 
spiced vinegar while hot. Stand in a cool place and 
they will be ready to eat in a day or two. 



MEATS. 163 



BAKED TRIPE. 

Take two pounds of thick honey-comb tripe which 
has been boiled; if it does not seem very tender sim- 
mer in boiling water mitil readily pierced with a straw. 
Skin and cut fine six large tomatoes or take half of a can, 
using the thick pulp, add to it a half cupful of finely 
cut white onion, two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped 
parsley, one sweet red pepper freed from seeds and 
veins and chopped fine, and a half teaspoonful of salt. 
On six thin slices of fat salt pork spread in a dripping 
pan lay the tripe; pour over it the tomato mixture, 
then six tablespoonfuls of melted butter and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

TRIPE IN BATTER. 

Cut some tender thick tripe in pieces two by three 
inches. Beat one egg, add to it one cupful of milk, 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
one scant teaspoonful of baking powder and sifted 
flour to make a thin drop batter. Dip each piece of 
tripe in this and drop, two or three at a time, into 
deep, smoking hot fat. Fry golden brown and drain 
on soft paper before serving. 

TRIPE ROLLS. 

Crumble fine enough of the inside of a stale loaf of 
bread to measure one cupful and a half. Add to it 
one tablespoonful of very finely chopped onion, one 
tablespoonful of chopped celery, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, three dashes of pepper and four table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter; mix all very thoroughly to- 
gether. Cut tender plain boiled tripe into pieces three 
by six inches, spread each with the filling and roll, 



164 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

fastening with a toothpick. Lay on a baking pan, 
baste each with a little melted butter and bake until 
golden brown. These are good either cold or hot. 

LYONNAISE TRIPE. 

Cut a pound or more of tripe into inch squares- 
Melt one large tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, 
add two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and cook 
slowly until the onion begins to color- Add the tripe, 
season with salt and pepper and toss imtil the butter 
is absorbed and the tripe lightly colored. Sprinkle 
with a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley and dish. 

PICKLED TRIPE. 

Boil together for five minutes one pint of good vine- 
gar, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one dozen pep- 
percorns, six cloves, half of a small bay leaf, a tiny bit 
of mace and one small onion cut fine. Ponr while hot 
over several pounds of tripe placed in a stone crock or 
glass jar and keep in a cold place. 

MINT JELLY TO SERVE WITH LAMB. 

Table Talk. 

Mint jelly is taking the place of mint sauce to serve 
with lamb and makes a pretty and dainty dish. Break 
enough leaves of tender mint to make one cupful when 
pressed; cut or chop, cover with a pint of boiling 
water and steep for half an hour; then strain, pressing 
hard. Soak a half package of gelatine in a half cup- 
ful of cold water and stand over hot water until dis- 
solved. Add to the mint water with one tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice or vinegar. Tint slightly with green coloring and 
pour into wetted molds, placing on ice until firm. 



MEATS. 165 

MINT JELLY. 

Mrs. T. K. Ohambers. 

One cup of mint, chopped, half cup of water, one 
cup Tarragon vinegar. Boil these together and strain, 
then add one cup of sugar and enough gelatine to 
thicken, boil until dissolved and turn into a glass or 
jelly mold. 

MINT JELLY. 

Table Talk. 

Select fine apples, grained, tart fruit. Wipe, quar- 
ter, core without peeling and slice. Take about half 
the b\ilk in washed mint leaves, the exact quantity de- 
pending upon the pungency of the herb. Cover with 
cold water, heat slowly and simmer until the apple 
falls to a pulp. Turn into a pointed jelly bag and let 
drip. Measure the clear juice and allow an equal 
amount of granulated sugar. Spread the sugar on 
shallow pans and stand in the open oven or where it 
will become very hot without melting; stir through 
from time to time to facilitate heating. Heat the juice 
and boil rapidly for twenty minutes. Add the hot 
sugar, stir until it dissolves. Boil up once, then turn 
immediately into tumblers which have been standing 
in a pan of hot water. When cold cover at once. If 
desired, a pale green tint may be given to the jelly by 
adding to it, when taken from the fire, a very little leaf 
green or other vegetable green coloring. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



CHAPTER XII 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

To select Poultry and Game. A chicken is known 
by soft feet, smooth skin, and soft cartilage at end of 
breastbone. An abundance of pinfeathers always in- 
dicate a young bird, while the presence of long hairs 
denotes age. In a fowl the feet have become hard 
and dry with coarse scales, and cartilage at end of 
breastbone has ossified. Cock turkeys are usually bet- 
ter eating than hen turkeys unless hen turkey is 
young, small and plump. A good turkey should be 
plump, have smooth dark legs, and cartilage at end 
of breastbone soft and pliable. Good geese abound 
in pinfeathers. Small birds should be plump, have 
soft feet and pliable bills. 

Turkeys are found in market throughout the year, 
but are best during the winter months. Tame ducks 
and geese are very indigestible on account of the 
large quantity of fat they contain. Goose meat is 
thoroughly infiltrated with fat, containing sometimes 
from forty to forty-five per cent. Pigeons, being old 
birds, need long, slow cooking to make them tender. 
Squabs (young pigeons) make a delicious tidbit for the 
convalescent, and are often the first meat allowed a 
patient by the physician. 



168 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

The flesh of game, with the exception of wild duck 
and wild geese, is tender, contains less fat than poul- 
try, is of fine though strong flavor, and easy of diges- 
tion. Game meat is usually dark color, partridge and 
quail being exceptions, and is usually cooked rare. 
Venison, the flesh of deer, is short fibred, dark colored, 
highly savored, tender and easy of digestion; being 
highly savored, it often disagrees with those of weak 
digestion. 

Geese are in market throughout the year, Massa- 
chusetts and Bhode Island furnishing specially good 
ones. A goose twelve weeks old is known as a green 
goose. They may be found in market from May to 
September. Young geese, which appear in market Sep- 
tember first and continue through December, are called 
goslings. They have been hatched during May and 
June, and then fatted for market. 

Young ducks, found in market about March first, 
are called ducklings. Canvasback ducks have gained 
a fine reputation throughout the country, and are 
found in market from the last of November until 
March. Redhead ducks are in season two weeks ear- 
lier, and are about as good eating as Canvasback ducks, 
and much less in price. The distinctive flavor of both 
is due to the wild celery on which they feed. Many 
other kinds of ducks are found in market, during the 
fall and winter. Examples: Widgeon, Mallard, Lake 
Erie Teal, Black Ducks, and Butterballs. 

Fresh quails are in market from October fifteenth 
to January first, the law forbidding their being killed 
at any other time in the year. The same is true of 
partridge; but both are frozen and kept in cold sto- 
rage several months. California sends frozen quail 



POULTRY AND GAME. 169 

in large numbers to Eastern markets. Grouse (prairie 
chicken) are always obtainable — fresh ones in the fall; 
later, those kept in cold storage. Plover may be 
bought from April until December. 

PREPARATION AND COOKING OP A TURKEY. 

Table Talk 

The initial step is in selection. Choose a hen tur- 
key of about twelve pounds in weight. The skin 
should be tender and indicative of dry picking, in- 
stead of scalding, to remove the feathers; the legs soft 
and smooth; pinfeathers plentiful and hairs short, fine 
and few; the end of the breast-bone soft enough to 
bend easily. These points show that the bird is young. 
All poultry should be killed by sticking and bleeding 
at the throat, and following this, the fowls should at 
once be drawn. This is not a law in many States, hence 
the practice of feeding prior to killing in order to in- 
crease weight, although at the expense of flavor. 

HOW TO DRAW IT. 

When selected, have the butcher remove the leg 
sinews as it will make these rather tough members 
more tender. As butchers usually gash the breast- 
skin, it may be better to have the fowl drawn at home. 
The first thing to be done is to remove as many of the 
pinfeathers as possible. After this pour one or two 
tablespoonfuls of alcohol into a saucer or pan, light it 
and hold the bird in the flame, turning constantly that 
all hairs may be removed. Lighted paper may be used, 
but it backens the skin, hence preference is given to 
the smokeless flame of alcohol. Cut oflE the feet be- 
low the joint; aft^r cooking, the broken ends are easily 



170 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

removed, leaving the joint more sightly in appearance 
than when burned. Cut oflE the head close to the bill; 
slit the skin on the neck on a line with the backbone, 
draw it back to the shoulders, detach and remove wind- 
pipe and crop, then cut off the neck close to the shoul- 
ders and lay it aside. The skin can now be folded over 
the back, leaving the breast unmarred. To remove the 
intestines, make a small slit just below the end of the 
breastbone; insert the fingers and loosen all the organs 
from the back and sides of the body, then, firmly grasp- 
ing the largest organ — the gizzard — draw firmly out- 
ward; if properly done, the mass will be removed in- 
tact. Cut round the vent without piercing the large 
intestine and all is freed from the body. The lungs 
may still remain; if so, remove them from the depres- 
sions between the ribs, then wipe out the empty cavity 
with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Remove the 
liver, heart and gizzard from the intestines; split the 
heart and carefully cut away the gall bladder from the 
liver ; cut the fleshy ends from the gizzard, trim off the 
tough irridescent skin, rejecting the central food 
pouch; put these aside with the neck to be cooked, 
chopped and added to the gravy. 

STUFFING AND TRUSSING. 

If the turkey is to be stuffed, fill the cavity with the 
desired mixture and lay a few spoonfuls between the 
skin and meat on the breast. While it is possible to 
truss by winding twine around legs, back and breast, 
the result will not be at all satisfactory to the carver. 
A trussing needle resembles a coarse darning needle 
about twelve inches in length. Have ready several 
twelve-inch pieces of fine, but stout, twine. Pull the 



POULTRY AND GAME. 171 

skin flap taut over the neck and back^ then twist the 
wings BO that the tips meet on the back over the flap, 
holding it in position. Push the threaded needle in a 
direct line through wings and body, entering and com- 
ing out above the bone of the second joint; make a 
return stitch parallel to, but under the bone, pull both 
ends of twine tight and tie firmly; leave three or four 
inches by which to pull out after cooking. Push the 
legs up against the body, and threading the needle 
afresh take two more stitches in the same manner as 
the first two, running over and under the thigh bone, 
then tie as before. For the third pair of stitches run 
through the ends of the legs and back through the 
rump. If properly taken and tightly tied, the fowl is 
now firmly trussed and the breast in proper position 
for serving. 

THE OOOKING. 

A ten-pound turkey will require fully three hours 
in a hot oven, and it is well to have at hand several 
sheets of thick brown paper to guard against burning. 
Having the oven very hot, place the bird, breast down- 
ward, on a small rack in a good-sized dripping pan; rub 
the back, breast, wings and legs with butter and put 
in the oven, aiter dredging lightly with salt. Melt a 
quarter of a cupful of butter (or rendered turkey fat) 
in three-quarters of a cupful of boiling water and baste 
every fifteen minutes. At the end of the first hour turn 
the fowl breast upward. Continue the cooking as before, 
lowering the oven heat a very little. If there is danger of 
burning, cover partly or wholly with the paper. When 
done the joints will separate easily. Before taking 
from the pan use a sharp, pointed knife to cut the 



172 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

twine on the side opposite the knot and pull it out 
by the loose ends. Then transfer to a hot platter. 

It is well for the housekeeper of to-day to remember 
that we have improved on the Colonial way of roast- 
ing a turkey. It is no longer placed on its back in the 
pan so that the juice shall run down and baste the 
back-bone, leaving the breast dry; instead, the breast 
is turned down, and it lies in a wire roasting-frame, 
which can be bought for twenty-five cents, or is skilful- 
ly balanced on four or more cups arranged around it. 
When basted the juice and butter run downward to 
the meat and the result is a moist and delicate bird. 



BREAD DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

Marion Harland. 

To a large cupful of crumbs allow a tablespoonful of 
butter. Season with pepper and, if you like, a little 
minced parsley. A little onion juice is an improve- 
ment. Moisten very slightly with cream, or milk. If 
liked, sweet marjoram, or thyme, may be used. 

SAUSAGE DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

Make as in last recipe, substituting sausage-meat 
for the butter. If partially cooked before it goes into 
the dressing, it is more wholesome. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Make a stuflBng for turkey in the ordinary way of 
dried bread crumbs, seasoned with parsley, thyme and 
sweet marjoram, and moistened with melted butter. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 173 

To this add twenty small oysters, chopped fine, and 
with this stuff the breast of the turkey. Or to the 
ordinary seasoned bread-stufl5ng for a turkey add two 
dozen small oysters, moisten the crumbs slightly with 
the oyster liquor, and fill the breast of the turkey with 
the mixture. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Boil one quart of the large French or Italian chest- 
nuts, shell and peel them. Mash smooth and rub into 
them two tablespoonfuls of butter, and salt and white 
pepper to taste. Stuff the turkey with this as you 
would any other kind of dressing. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Seeh/s Cook Book. 

Singe and clean a medium-sized tender turkey, wipe 
dry, and stuff with the following mixture : Four break- 
fastcupfuls of oyster cracker crumbs, mixed with four 
breakfastcupfuls of bread crumbs. Stir in the liquor 
from five dozen oysters, one-half pound of melted but- 
ter, and two beaten eggs. Put in the oysters, season 
to taste, and stuff the turkey. Put the mixture in 
loosely so it will absorb the gravy. Wrap the turkey 
in a piece of heavy white buttered paper and roast in 
a hot oven. Baste it often with melted butter. About 
ten minutes before removing the bird from the oven 
take off the paper, sprinkle with flour and salt, and 
baste with butter to brown it. When cooked, place it 
on a hot dish. Prepare some brown sauce with the 
liquid in the dripping pan. Pour some around the 
turkey and serve the rest in a separate dish. 



174 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

TUKKBY SCALLOPED. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict. 
Pick the meat from cold turkey, chop it fine; put 
a layer of bread crumbs on the bottom of a buttered 
dish, moisten them with a little milk, then a layer of 
turkey, with some of the filling, and some butter, pep- 
per and salt, then another layer of crumbs and so on, 
until the dish is full; add a small quantity of hot 
water to the cold gravy and pour it over dish; then 
take two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one of mel- 
ted butter, salt cracker crumbs as much as will make 
it thick enough to spread on top with a knife; put bits 
of butter all over it; cover with a plate; bake three- 
quarters of an hour. About ten minutes before serv- 
ing, remove the plate and let the turkey brown. Use 
more turkey and very little bread. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 
Remove all the meat from a cooked turkey, and chop 
it very fine. Break up the frame and bones, and add 
the fat, skin, etc., and cover with cold water. Cook 
down slowly. Butter the inside of a deep baking dish, 
put in a layer of fine bread crumbs, then a layer of 
turkey, then some bits of butter and bits of the turkey 
dressing, if you have any, then another layer of bread 
crumbs, and so on until all is used. When you think 
the bones have boiled enough, strain, and thicken with 
browned flour and season to taste. Pour some into the 
dish. Then thickly spread fine bread crumbs, mois- 
tened to a thick paste with the gravy, over the entire 
dish. Cover with another dish, and bake for thirty 
minutes. Remove the extra dish, and when the top is 
a nice brown, serve. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 176 

DEVILED TURKEY LEGS. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book, 

Score and trim cooked turkey legs. Season them 
with salt and pepper. Eub them with some mustard 
and oil mixed to a paste. Broil over a clear fire. Turn 
often. When a nice brown, serve with a rich brown 
gravy poured over them. 

TURKEY LOAP. 

"Table Tal¥\ 

Chop the remains of a turkey, season well with salt 
and pepper; add one cupful of soft bread crumbs to 
the quart, and sufficient beaten ^gg to make it hold to- 
gether. Mold this into a loaf or pack in a greased 
mould; cover the top with thin slices of salt pork, and 
bake or steam until firm. 

ROAST OniCKEN. 

Marion Harland. 

Singe to get rid of down, draw and wash well, rins- 
ing the cavity of each fowl with soda and water. Wipe 
and fill bodies and craws with a stuffing of dry crumbs, 
well-seasoned with pepper, salt and butter. Tie up 
the neck and bind legs and wings close to the body with 
soft cord or tapes. Lay upon the grating of your cov- 
ered roaster; dash a cupful of boiling water over them, 
cover, and roast fifteen minutes to the pound. Drain 
off the gravy, and set in iced water to throw up the fat. 
Wash the chickens over with butter, dredge with flour 
and brown. Clip the threads and dish. Thicken the 
gravy with browned flour, add the chopped giblets 
(previously boiled tender), boil up once and turn into 
a boat. 



176 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BOILED FOWLS. 

Marion Harland. 

Prepare as for roasting; sew up in white netting, or 
in coarse lace, and souse four times in boiling water. 
Then put over the fire in cold, slightly salted water, 
covering deeply; bring slowly to the boil, and cook 
gently fifteen minutes to the pound. Have ready egg- 
or oyster-sauce, or bread-sauce. Pour a few spoonfuls 
of hot butter, salted and peppered, over the chickens, 
the rest into a boat. 

SMOTHEBED CHICKEN. 

Broilers, and other really young fowls, are neces- 
sary for this dish. Split down the back when you have 
cleaned and washed them. Lay them out flat on the 
grating of your roaster, skin side down, and put into 
a very hot oven, covered. Have ready half a cupful of 
melted butter, and after five minutes baste the chick- 
ens well with this. Turn them as soon as the iJlside 
has colored slightly; baste again with butter; when 
nearly done dredge thickly with flour and wash again 
with butter. When they are brown, and the flesh is 
tender in the joints, they are done. Thirty minutes 
should be suflScient. Baste frequently, and as soon as 
they are browned you may add a little hot water to the 
butter. Take up the chickens and keep them hot, 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, and boil one 
minute before pouring into a boat. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Marion Harland. 

Clean as usual, and dissect so thoroughly that the 
carver will have nothing for his knife to do in "help- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 177 

ing'^ the disk The breast and the back should be in 
two pieces, each, and every joint be separate from the 
next. Wash, but do not wipe. Arrange the pieces, 
dripping wet, in a pot, scatter over each layer minced 
onion, parsley and chopped fat pork; season with salt 
and pepper. Cover the pot very closely and set it 
where it will not begin to boil under an hour. In- 
crease the heat somewhat, but cook slowly throughout. 
Cooh until done! The toughest tendons will yield to 
slow stewing in time. When assured that your end is 
gained, take out the meat with a split spoon, heap up- 
on a platter, the white at one end, the dark at the 
other, and keep hot while making the gravy. To do 
this, pour into a bowl, set in iced water, to make the 
fat rise. Skim, return to the pot and add a cupful of 
hot milk thickened with a tablespoonful of butter, 
rubbed into one of flour. Boil one minute — when you 
have added a pinch of soda. Have ready two well- 
beaten eggs, add the boiling gravy gradually and pour 
over the chicken. Serve with a border of boiled rice. 

A BROWN PRIOASSEB. 

Marion Harland. 

Prepare as for ordinary fricassee. Fry half a pound 
of fat salt pork, sliced thin, in a pan; when they hiss 
and smoke, put in a large sliced onion and cook until 
it colors. Now dredge the pieces of chicken with flour 
and fry, a few pieces at a time, in the same fat, turn- 
ing several times. When they begin to brown, turn all 
into a pot with the shreds of pork and onion. Add a 
very small cupful of stock; cover closely and cook un- 
til done. Have ready a brown roux, made by cooking 
together a great spoonful of butter with the same of 



178 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

browned flour. Stir in a teaspoonful of kitchen bou- 
quet, and add to the gravy left in the pot after the 
chicken is dished. Cook two minutes and pour over 
the dished chicken. Set in the oven for three minutes 
before serving. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Marion Ilarland. 

When you have cleaned and washed the young chick- 
ens, split down the back, so as to leave the breast in 
one piece. Lay in lemon juice and salad oil for half 
an hour, wipe lightly, pepper and salt, and lay within 
a well-greased broiler, skin side uppermost. Broil ten 
or twelve minutes to the pound, according to age and 
weight, turning often and never allowing it to drip up- 
on the coals. When done, lay, breast upward, upon a 
hot dish, rub all over with a mixture of butter, lemon 
juice and minced parsley, and serve. Chicken may be 
rubbed over with butter, instead of salad oil, before 
cooking. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Miss C. Bedford, New York. 

Singe, split down the back, clean and wipe with a 
damp cloth. Rub inside and out with a little butter, 
then sprinkle with salt and pepper. Arrange on a 
greased wire broiler. Cook with flesh side toward the 
fire at first. When seared, hold a little farther away 
from the fire. Turn occasionally on the skin side, but 
be careful, as it readily scorches. A chicken weighing 
two pounds and a half will take from fifteen to twenty 
minutes; if not well done, it will be tough. Transfer 
to a hot platter and rub again with butter. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 179 

ESCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Mrs, Rowland, Brooklyn, 
Two young chicken«, or one fowl, one tablespoon of 
butter, one tablespoon of flour, one cup of milk or 
cream, one cup of bread crumbs. Boil the chickens; 
when cool take the meat from the bones, cut in slices, 
leaving out all skin and gristle; cream the butter and 
flour in the double boiler; add the milk and enough of 
the broth the chickens were boiled in to make a quart 
of gravy; season with salt the bottom of the dish, then 
a layer of chicken, more crumbs and some of the 
sauce; continue in that way until all are used. 

CHICKEN LIVEES ON SKEWBH8. 

OscoTy Waldorf-Astoria, 
Take ,the livers of eighteen chickens, clean, cut away 
the galls, and dry them well with a cloth; season with 
salt and pepper and cut each liver in halves. In the 
meantime cut off six slices of lean bacon and broil them 
for one minute, then cut each slice into six pieces. Take 
six silvers skewers (attelettes), run one through the 
center of the liver, next a piece of bacon, and continue 
in this way until the six skewers are filled with the 
pieces of liver and bacon. Eoll them in a tablespoon 
of oil, dip them into sifted bread crumbs, and put them 
on a moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each 
side. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour over half a 
gill of maitre dTi6tel butter, and serve with a little 
watercress for garnish. 

CURRIED CHICKEN. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 
Singe and draw a chicken weighing about three pounds 
and cut the flesh into square pieces; put these in cold 



180 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

water for five minutes, wash them well, drain and put 
them in a saucepan filling it up to the surface with hot 
water; season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. 
Add a hunch of sweet herhs and six small onions and 
cook on a moderate fire for forty-five minutes, skimming 
well. Take another saucepan, place in it a gill and a 
half of white roux, moisten it with all of the broth 
from the chicken, and mix well together. Prepare a 
tablespoon of diluted curry with the yolk of four eggs 
and the juice of half a lemon, beat all well together 
and pour it into the sauce, a little at a time, stirring 
continually and not allowing it to boil. Pour the sauce 
over the chicken which remains in a saucepan, dress 
immediately on a hot dish, garnish with boiled rice 
and serve. 

CURRIED CHICKEN, CREOLE STYLE. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria, 

Prepare and cook same as Curried Chicken, adding 
one green pepper cut very fine, one chopped onion and 
half a clove of garlic; cook for twenty minutes with the 
chicken. 

VIRGINIA FRIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs Joseph Smilie, Virginia. 

Cut the chicken into pieces, wash well in cold water, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and roll well in flour. 
Have an equal quantity of butter and lard in a frying- 
pan — hot. Put the chicken in and cover. When brown 
on one side, turn until all sides are brown and done. 
Remove the chicken to a hot dish, sprinkle a teaspoonful 
of flour in the hot grease, stirring all the time until it 
browns; then pour in half a pint of cream, stir well 
and pour over the chicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 181 

CHICKEN, BALTIMORE STYLE. 

Mr8, Rowland, Brooklyn. 
Split a small Spring chicken down the baek^ as for 
broiling; remove tiie breast-bones, and cut off the pin- 
ions ; cut into four pieces ; dredge with salt and pepper ; 
dip them in egg and fresh crumbs ; place them in a pan 
and roast in the oven eighteen to twenty minutes ; make 
a cream sauce, taking one cup of Bfehamel sauce, and 
adding to it a half cupful of cream and a half table- 
spoonful of butter; pour this sauce on a dish, and place 
the pieces of chicken on it; garnish with slices of fried 
bacon. 

VIRGINIA PRIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Slice and fry half a pound of fat salt pork; prepare 
the chicken as for fricassee, flour it, and fry in the fat 
of the pork; when the chicken is done, lay it on a plat- 
ter, and add to the fat one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour dissolved in a little cold milk; stir this in grad- 
ually, adding pepper and salt ; simmer until thick, then 
pour it over the chicken, and serve. 

CHICKEN CURRY. 

Mrs. 8eely*8 Cook Book. 

Select a tender chicken weighing about three or four 
pounds. After singeing and cleamng, wash well and 
soak it in cold water for ten minutes. Drain and cut 
into square pieces. Put the pieces into a saucepan with 
enough hot water to cover them. Add two pinches of 
salt, one of white pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a 
bouquet, and six small, white onions. Cook over a 
moderate fire for forty-five minutes, keeping it well 



182 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

skimmed. Drain oflf the broth and set the saucepan 
where the chicken will keep warm. Put half a pint 
of white sauce — ^butter and flour — in a saucepan with 
all the broth and mix thoroughly. Take one tablespoon- 
ful of curry which is blended with water, the yolks of 
four eggs and the juice of half a lemon. Beat all to- 
gether thoroughly and gradually stir it into the sauce. 
Do not let it boil. Pour the sauce over the chicken and 
serve immediately. Garnish the dish with a border 
of boiled rice. 

CHICKEN POTPIE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One good fowl, one pint of milk, three eggs well 
beaten, one half teacup of butter, a little salt. Mix with 
. flour, make as stiff as pie crust, roll them, cut in pieces 
three inches square, cut chicken as for stewing. Put 
a little cold water in bottom of iron pot, then place a 
layer of chicken around inside, leaving an opening in 
the center, over the chicken put a layer of crust. Sea- 
son well with salt and pepper and butter. Add enough 
water to cover and simmer for two hours. Add potatoes 
when nearly done. Place large bony pieces in bottom 
of pot, so potpie does not bum. 

OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH CHICKEN POTPIE. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 

One small bowl of sweet milk, a small bowl of thick 
milk, half a bowl of fat soup of chicken, four potatoes 
boiled and mashed fine, two eggs well beaten, butter 
size of an egg, one teaspoon of saleratus, salt and pepper 
to taste; mix all together, then put in flour and knead 
very soft. Do not roll the crust. Take a lump of the 



POULTRY AND GAME. 183 

dough and thin it with your hand. Chicken must be 
boiled tender with plenty of juice. Take it out and 
place it in layers between the crust as you thin it out. 
Boil quick, and eat hot. It is better if not allowed to 
stand too long when done. 

VIRGINIA STEWED CHIOKEN. 

Miss W., Portsmouth, N. H. 

From one or two roast chickens, left from a previous 
meal, cut and dice the best portions so as to have fully 
a pint of meat. Take bones, etc., put in a kettle, cover 
with cold water, heat and simmer slowly for two hours, 
then strain. To this stock add the diced meat, three 
large, firm tomatoes peeled and cut fine, one green sweet 
pepper seeded and chopped, and the com cut from a 
dozen ears. Repeat, thicken with two scant tablespoon- 
fuls of flour dissolved in cold water, season to taste 
and simmer for fifteen minutes. Serve garnished with 
squares of fried hominy. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Oeorge Lowther, New York. 

Put two good sized pieces of butter in pot on top of 
range; let them run down to brown. Then put in 
chicken, little pepper and salt. Keep turning chicken 
very often, and stand pot back on range as it must not 
cook too fast. Put five or six onions, whole, in pot and 
three bay-leaves, long enough to cook onions. Then 
one-half hour before serving, squeeze in juice of one 
lemon — be sure to baste it a great deal. If you do 
not it will be very dry. 



184 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POLLADO DE POLLO (SPANISH DISH). 

Mrs, Robinson, Bay Side, L. L 

Cut up a chicken and fry it slightly. Then put it 
into a saucepan with a little water and cook slowly. 
Cut up some tomatoes, onions and green peppers, and 
fry until soft; then add to the chicken. When it has 
boiled down and there is not much liquid left, add half 
a cupful of cream and thicken by adding a little flour 
and butter mixed together; add. two cupfuls of cooked 
rice (very dry), measured before cooking, and stir into 
the chicken. Mix thoroughly and season well with salt 
and pepper and serve. 

DUCKS. 
Miss Josephine Oreiner, New York. 

Select large, fine ducks, and see that the breast-bone 
bends easily and they are not too fat to be young. 
Make a stuffing for them by stewing and stoning half a 
pound of prunes, chopping them coarsely, adding a cup 
of minced celery, a cup of soft bread crumbs, a little 
onion juice, salt and pepper, and four apples chopped 
fine. Put a heaping tablespoonful of butter in the 
frying-pan, and cook all together until the apples and 
celery are done. Stuflf the ducks, leaving room for the 
crumbs to swell, and roast them upside down, like the 
turkey; baste often, and serve with giblet gravy. 

E0A8T DUOK. 

"Table TaW\ 

Boast duck not stuffed, but a small onion and a stalk 
of celery placed in the cavity to give a slight flavor. 
It is trussed in the same way as directed for turkey, 



POULTRY AND GAME. 185 

and roasted in a very hot oven until the joints could be 
easily separated. Blood oranges are used for garnish, 
the sections being separated and heaped in the rind 
which is carefully removed in halves. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Marion Harland. 

Draw and clean, washing the inside in three waters, 
the second having a teaspoonful of baking soda mixed 
with it. 

Plunge into ice-cold water; leave them there for fif- 
teen minutes; wipe well inside and out, and stuff with 
a forcemeat of dry crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, 
onion juice and finely minced parsley. 

Do not moisten the stuffing. Put it in dry, packing 
well. Dredge the ducks with peppered and salted flour ; 
lay upon the grating of your roaster, pour a cupful of 
boiling water over them, and roast, covered, from twelve 
to fifteen minutes to the pound, according to age. Baste 
four times with the gravy from the dripping-pan. Un- 
cover, wash with butter, dredge with flour and brown. 

To make the gravy, drain off the liquor from the 
pan; set in ice-water to throw up the grease, strain, add 
the giblets minced very fine, thicken with browned flour, 
and boil for two minutes. 

SALMI OP DUCK. 

''Table Talk". 

What meat has been left on roasted ducks cut off in 
good-sized pieces; the bones are broken and simmered 
so as to give nearly a quart of stock. Season the 
remaining gravy with mushroom catsup and a few drops 



186 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

of Worcestershire; if less than a cupful add boiling 
water to make up the deficiency. In this heat the meat 
and a dozen or more olives, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and take from the fire. Pile the meat in the 
center of a small platter, pour over it the gravy and 
garnish with triangles of toasted bread and tufts of 
parsley. The stock, with the addition of sago and 
seasoning, gives a dinner soup. 

BELASCO'S SALMI OP GOOSE. 

There are many ways of preparing a salmi of goose, 
but if the directions in the following recipe are closely 
adhered to, the result should be as pleasing as was the 
one constructed by the chef who gave me his formula. 

Cut the remains of a roast goose into small pieces 
about an inch long and half as wide. Have ready a 
gravy made by boilng down the bones and toughest 
scraps until you have a cup of strong stock. Add to this 
a carrot, a young turnip, a tomato, an apple and a stalk 
of celery, all cut into dice, and the vegetables parboiled 
for ten minutes. Simmer in the gravy until you can 
run them through your vegetable press. Put in the 
meat and cook slowly until tender. Thicken with 
browned flour. 

WALNUT CROQUETTES. 

Urs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Stir in a double boiler a pint of bread crumbs, with 
enough milk to make a thick smooth batter, and add 
a teaspoon of salt and a full cup and a half of chopped 
walnuts. Moisten with a couple of tablespoons of 
brandy or sherry, and stir in the well beaten yolks of 
four eggs. Take mixture from the fire and let it get 



POULTRY AND GAME. 187 

cold, then form croquettes. Dip them in egg, and then 
in bread crmnbe, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with 
any sauce to your taste. To be served with duck. 

GLEANING A GOOSE. 

Table Talk. 

Before beginning, the thick, oily skin is given special 
treatment with a view to rendering it less pronounced 
in ordor and taste. After the pin feathers have been 
removed and the bird has been singed, make a strong 
suds with hot water and ivory soap. With a small stifE 
bristle brush scrub the skin long and thoroughly with 
the hot suds, then rinse repeatedly with cold water, and 
finally pat dry with a soft cloth. 

One onion and one teaspoonful of sage. Three 
pints of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of parsley (chop- 
ped), two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt, pepper; or it 
may be two-thirds hot mashed potato and one-third 
stale bread crumbs with the same seasoning. When 
stufBng is not desired take a small thick skinned lemon 
and with a sharp knife peel off the thin yellow rind. 
Place the lemon in the body cavity close to the vent, and 
the thick white peel will absorb much of the rank oil 
from the skin. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Miss Josephine Oreiner, New York. 

As a goose is a most uncertain bird to buy, care must 
be taken in its selection. It ought really to be only 
four months old ; at least the tip of the breasi-bone must 
be flexible, its feet should be yellow and smooth, not 
scaly, and it should not be too fat. If one still has any 
doubt as to its age it is always safe to braise rather 



188 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

than roast it, and if it is well browned no one will be 
the wiser. Make a stuflfing for it with a large cup of 
bread crumbs mixed with a cup of chopped celery, a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter, three slices of onion 
chopped fine, salt and pepper. Cook this in the frying- 
pan till it is brown, and stuflf the goose only two-thirds 
full. Dredge the bird well with flour seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and put it in a deep pan with a cup of 
water; cover closely, but baste frequqently, and cook 
twenty minutes to a pound, or a little longer if it still 
does not seem quite tender; remove the cover, and 
roast for the last fifteen minutes until it is a good 
brown. Serve this with giblet gravy. 

Turkey may have the same stuffing, with the addi- 
tion of a cup of walnuts or oysters or chestnuts, but on- 
ly one slice of onion should be used. 

As apples should accompany goose, peel some fine ones 
and cut into quarters, removing the cores; cook a cup 
of sugar witti a cup of water for five minutes, with a 
few bits of lemon peel if that is liked, and drop in the 
apples; cook imtil transparent, but do not let them 
break; remove to a flat glass dish and cool; boil down 
the juice, and pour over them when it cools. 

ROAST GOOSE STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 

Select a tender goose weighing about five pounds. 
Singe, draw thoroughly, wash and dry. Stuff it with 
chestnuts prepared as follows: Chop one shallot very 
fine and put it in a saucepan with two scant tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Cook for two or three minutes. Then 
add one-quarter of a pound of sausage meat. Cook five 



POULTRY AND GAME. 189 

minutes. Then add twelve finely chopped mushrooms 
and twelve cooked chestnuts which have been peeled and 
pounded in a mortar. Add one pinch of salt, one-half 
pinch of white pepper, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of 
powdered thyme, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. Let all come to a boil and add one ounce of 
fresh bread crumbs and twenty-four French chestnuts 
cooked, shelled, and whole. Mix thoroughly, being care- 
ful to keep the chestnuts whole. When cold, stuff the 
goose with this mixture. Sew both ends, truss, and 
wrap in heavy white buttered paper. Boast in moderate 
oven for one hour and a half. Baste with the drippings, 
dress on a hot platter. Skim the fat from the drip- 
pings, add one gill of white broth. Let it come to a 
boil. Strain into a sauce-boat and serve. Also serve ap- 
ple sauce with the above. 

BRAISED OOSLINQS. 

Marion Harland. 

Clean and truss without stiiflSng. Prepare a bed for 
them by slicing a carrot, an onion, a turnip (all young- 
lings, like the birds), also a pared apple, and cutting a 
stalk of celery into bits. With these cover the grating 
of your roaster; lay the birds upon them, dredge with 
salt, pepper and a little powdered sage, when you have 
poured a little boiling water over them from the kettle. 
Cover, and roast slowly fifteen minutes to the pound. 
Wash with butter, dredge with flour and brown. 

Take the goslings up and keep hot while you make the 
gravy. Eub vegetables and liquor through a colander 
into a bowl. Set this in cold water to throw up the 
grease. Skim, thicken with browned flour, adding two 
teaspoonful^ of topiato catsup^ boil up and serve. 



190 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Serve apple sauce and green peas, or Lima beans, 
with the goslings which are most eatable when half- 
grown. 

BROILED PARTRIDGE. 

Mrs. Howard Bumstead. 

Cut neck and feet off two fat partridges. Split open 
through back, remove spinal bones, envelope' in coarse 
towel and flatten. 

Mix on a plate a tablespoon of oil, a teaspoon of salt 
and a half teaspoon of pepper, and turn repeatedly in 
seasoning; broil for ten minutes on each side, on a 
double broiler. 

Mix a half ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, teaspoon of French mustard and the 
juice of a quarter of lemon and spread over partridge. 

BROILED PARTRIDGES^ AMERICAN STYLE. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Singe, draw and wipe neatly, three tender partridges, 
cut them in halves, lay them on a dish and season with 
a little salt, pepper and one tablespoon of oil. Boll them 
in well and put them to broil for seven minutes on each 
side. Prepare six slices of fried hominy, arrange them 
on a hot dish, place the partridges over and pour one gill 
of maitre d'hStel butter on top; place six slices of broiled 
bacon over the birds and serve. 

ROASTED PARTRIDGES. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Pluck the partridges, draw and truss them, and fasten 
some thin slices of fat bacon round them, roast for fif- 
teen minutes in a hot oven. Five minutes before dish- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 191 

ing take the bacon oS, sprinkle a little salt over the 
birds and brown them. Put the partridges on a hot 
dishy and serve them with a sauce-boatful of brown 
gravy. 

BROILED PHEASANT. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Cut the bird into four pieces and fry them in lard; 
when nicely browned all over and half done through, 
take them from the fire, drain the lard from them, 
brush over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of 
bread-crumbs mixed with salt and cayenne, put them on 
a hot well-greased gridiron, and broil them for ten min- 
utes over a clear fire. 

BROILED PLOVERS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Secure six fat plovers, pick, singe, draw and wipe 
them well, pick out the eyes, and split them through 
the back without separating the parts, and place them 
upon a dish. Season with a pinch of salt and half as 
much pepper, and add a tablespoon of oil. Rub in the 
seasoning thoroughly, and place the birds on a broiler 
to cook for four minutes on either side ; then dress them 
on a hot dish with six pieces of toast, spread over a gill 
of maitre d'h6tel butter, decorating with a little water- 
cress, and serve. 

ROASTED PLOVERS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Pluck and singe the desired number of birds, take 
out the gizzards, but leaving the remainder of the en- 
trails inside. Tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the 
breast of each bird, and range them in a hot oven to 



192 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

roast. Place in a dripping pan some slices of toast 
and baste them continually with butter. Just prepara- 
tory to removing the birds from the fire, take ofE the 
rashers of bacon and dust them with salt; when the 
birds are done, place the toast on a hot dish with a 
bird on each, decorate with quartered lemons, and serve 
with a sauce-boat of white sauce. 
2. Pick, singe, draw and wipe six tender and fat plovers, 
pick out the eyes and truss the legs together, and skewer 
the head under one leg. Then lay a thin slice of larding 
pork on each bird, tie them securely, and put in a roast- 
ing pan, seasoning with a little salt, spread over a very 
little butter, and put them on a spit, roasting for ten 
minutes. Then take them from the fire and arrange 
six small canapes for game on a hot dish, dress the plov- 
ers on them, garnish with a little watercress and serve. 

ROASTED PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

Oscar, Waldorf 'Astoria, 

Having cleaned and singed the bird, squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over the stomach and legs and rub it in thor- 
oughly; lay some thin slices of bacon on the breast, 
fastening them in position with twine, then wrap the 
bird in a sheet of well-buttered paper, lay it on a roasting 
pan, and roast it in a hot oven, basting continually. 
It should cook in twenty minutes or half an hour ac- 
cording to its age. About five minutes before taking 
it out remove the paper, but allowing the slices of ba- 
con to remain on it; place the bird on a hot dish, mix 
in the juice of half a lemon with the gravy in the 
dripping pan, season with a little salt and pepper, 
strain through a fine hair-sieve over the bird, garnishing 
with watercress and serve. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 193 

BBOILED QUAILS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria, 
Singe and draw the quails, split them lengthwise 
down the back and wipe them with a damp cloth. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, rub them well in warmed 
butter, and dredge with flour. Place the birds on a 
gridiron over a dear fire and broil for ten minutes. Cut 
some thick slices of bread, remove the crusts, toast 
and butter them and lay them on a hot dish. Place 
a quail when cooked on each slice, garnish with pars- 
ley and serve. 

LABDED QUAILS.. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 
Singe, draw and wash the quails, lard the breasts and 
legs, run a small skewer through the legs and tail and 
bind them firmly round with thread. Baste the breasts 
with a small quantity of clarified butter, dust a little 
salt over and dredge them thickly with flour. Place 
the quails in a baking dish and bake for fifteen minutes. 
Put a layer of bread-sauce on a hot dish; when cooked 
untie the birds, place them on the dish with the bread- 
sauce, sift plenty of fried bread-crumbs over them, 
garnish with a little parsley, and serve. 

ROASTED QUAILS. 

Oscar, Waldorf 'Astoria. 
To prepare this successfully a clear hot open fire is 
best, but in lieu of that a very hot oven will answer. 
Pluck, singe and draw the birds, wipe them with a 
wet towel, cut ofl! the heads and feet, wrap each bird in 
a slice of fat salted pork, and pack them closely in a 
saucepan just large enough to hold them. Season the 
quails highly with salt and cayenne, pour over just 



194 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

enough boiling water to cover them, place the cover 
on the saucepan, and place it on a hot fire for five or 
ten minutes. Then take up the quails, remove the pork, 
wipe the birds on a clean towel, rub them all over with 
butter, and roast them brown before a very hot fire, or 
in a hot oven, basting them twice with more butter and 
their drippings. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which 
they were stewed, and melt it with an equal quantity 
of red currant jelly to form a sauce, or serve cold red 
currant jelly with them. Serve the birds hot as soon 
as they are browned. 

BROILED REEDBIRDS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 
Dress the reedbirds without splitting them, place an 
oyster in each one, season them with salt and pepper, 
broil them quickly over a hot clear fire for about five 
minutes and serve at once. 

SQUABS ON TOAST. 

''Table Talk:' 
Draw the squabs the same way as fowl, but do not 
remove the feet. Put a small lump of butter rolled in 
salt and pepper in each one, then truss. Arrange in a 
pan on slices of salt pprk, and on the breast of each 
lay another thin slice. Place in a very hot oven and roast 
for from twenty to twenty-five minutes and serve on 
toast or slices of fried hominy. 

BROILED SNIPES. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria, 
Pick, singe, draw and dry eight fine snipe, remove 
the skin from the heads, split them into halves without 
detaching the parts, and place them on a dish. Sea- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 195 

8on with one pinch of salt, one-half pinch of pepper, and 
one tablespoon of oil; put them to broil (with the bills 
stuck into the breasts) and allow them to cook for four 
minutes on either side. Put six slices of hot toast on a 
hot dish, arrange the snipes on them, spread one gill 
of maitre d'hotel butter on top, decorate the dish with 
watercress and serve. 

BOASTED SNIPES. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Pluck, singe and draw some snipes and take out the 
backbones. Chop fine a quantity of fresh pork and 
mix with it an equal amount of chopped raw mushrooms, 
one pinch of shallot, some parsley, salt and pepper. 
Fill the birds with the above mixture, sew them up and 
truss ; fix the snipes on a spit and roast them in front 
of a clear fire or, if not convenient, roast them in oven, 
basting them constantly with butter. Place some slices 
of bread underneath the birds in the dripping pan. 
Put two sliced onions into a stewpan with a small lump 
of butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry imtil 
well browned; then dredge in a little flour, and stir in 
by degrees about one-half pint of stock, and boil it gen- 
tly imtil the onions are cooked. Fry the trails of the 
snipes with three cliicken livers, season them, pound and 
pass them through a fine hair-sieve. Put the pur6e 
of trails into a saucepan with a little white wine and the 
onions, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, but 
do not allow them to boil. 

When cooked remove the snipes from the fire, brush 
them over with melted glaze, put the pieces of bread 
from the dripping pan on a hot dish, stand the snipes 
on them, pour sauce over and serve. 



190 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BBOILED WOODCOCKS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Plucky singe, draw, pick out the eyes, and remove 
the skin from the heads of six fine woodcocks, wipe 
them neatly, and split them through the backs without 
separating the parts. Put them on a dish, season with 
a little salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. 
Boll them well with the seasoning and put them on to 
broU with the bills stuck in the breasts. Let them broil 
for four minutes on each side, then arrange them on a 
dish with six pieces of heart-shaped fried bread covered 
with minced hearts and livers as for roasted woodcock, 
spread over a gill of mattre d'hdtel butter, decorate with 
six slices of fat bacon and serve. 



BOASTED WOODCOCKS. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Truss the required quantity of woodcocks without 
drawing them, fastening the legs close to the body with 
an iron skewer. Toast as many slices of bread as 
there are woodcocks. Boast the woodcocks in a good 
oven. Lay a slice of toast in a dripping pan under each 
bird to catch the trail, and let them roast for thirty 
minutes. They should be rather underdone. While 
they are roasting baste them with butter. When suf- 
ficiently cooked lay the pieces of toast on a hot diah 
and put one of the birds on each, pour a little beef 
gravy in the dish, and serve some more in a sauce 
tureen. Garnish the dish with thin slices of lemon 
and watercress. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 197 

GANYASBAOK DUCKS BOASTED. 

FUippini, Delmonico's, 

Procure two fat canvasbacked ducks, pick, singe^ 
draw welly and wipe neatly ; throw a light pinch of salt 
inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the 
back, truss nicely, and place in a roasting pan. Sprinkle 
a little salt over, put them in a brisk oven, and let cook 
for eighteen minutes; arrange on a very hot dish, un- 
truss, throw two tablespoonfuls of white broth into 
each duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy 
and currant jelly. 

Kedhead ducks roasted are prepared exactly the same 
as canvasback ducks roasted. 

OANYASBACK DUCKS^ BROILED. 

FHippini, Delmonico's. 
Take two fine, fat, canvasbacked ducks; pick, singe, 
draw, and wipe them thoroughly. Split them through 
the back without detaching them, and lay them on a 
dish to season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a tablespoonf ul of oil. Boll them in well, 
and cut them to broil for seven minutes on each side. 
Dress them in a hot dish, spread a gill of mattre dlidtel 
butter over, decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

BOAST VENISON 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 

Prepare venison as for ordinary roast, and cut deep 
gashes about two inches apart in which to lay strips 
of nice salt pork. A very little onion and a few slices 
of pork are laid in bottom of pan, giving a slight flavor 
to meat and gravy, which serves as a sauce, venison being 
a meat without much fat or juices. 

This will apply to elk meat and moose meat. 



SALADS. 



CHAPTER XIII 

All recipes without name accompanjlng them hare been 
thoroughlj tested. 

Salads, Sandwiches and Chafing Dish Dainties.^ 

While salads may be compounded of all kinds of deli- 
cate meats^ fish, shell-fish, eggs, nuts, fruit, cheese and 
vegetables, cooked or uncooked, two things are indis- 
pensable to every- kind and grade of salad, viz., the 
foundation of vegetables, and the dressing. 

THE DRESSING. 

Salads are dressed with oil, acid and condiments; 
and, sometimes, a sweet, as honey or sugar, is used. 
A perfect salad is not necessarily acetic. The presence 
of vinegar in a dressing, like that of onions and its 
relatives, on most occasions should be suspected only. 

Aromatic vinegar, a few drops of which, used oc- 
casionally, lend piquancy and variety to an every-day 
salad, can be purchased at high-class provision stores. 

Indeed, the dressing of a salad, though in the early 
days of the century considered a special art, — an art 
that rendered it possible for at least one noted Royal- 
ist refugee to amass a considerable fortune, — ^is en- 
tirely a matter of individual taste, or, more properly 
speaking, of cultivation. On this account, particularly 
for a French dressing, no set rules can be given. By ex- 
perience and judgment one must decide upon the pro- 
portions of the different ingredients, or, more specifioal- 

*Janct McKenzle Hill, Boston. 



200 . KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ly, upon the proportions of the oil and acid to be used. 
Often four spoonfuls of oil are used to one of vinegar. 
Four spoonfuls of oil to two, three or four of vinegar 
may be the proportion preferred by others, and the 
quantity may vary for different salads. Though in 
many of the recipes explicit quantities of oil, vinegar 
and condiments are given, it is with the understanding 
that these quantities are indicated simply as an ap- 
proximate rule; sometimes less and sometimes more 
will be required, according to the tendency of the arti- 
cle dressed to absorb oil and acid, or the taste of the 
salad dresser. 

USB OF DRESSINGS. 

The dressings in most common use are the French and 
the mayonnaise. A French dressing is used for green 
vegetables, for fruit and nuts, and to marinate cooked 
vegetables, or the meat or fish for a meat or fish salad. 
Mayonnaise dressing is used for meat, fish, some varie- 
ties of fruit, as baniina, apple and pineapple, and for 
some vegetables, as cauliflower, asparagus and toma^ 
toes. Any article to be served with mayonnaise, after 
standing an hour or more in a marinade, i. e., French 
dressing, should be carefully drained. As it would seem 
wise to cultivate a taste for so wholesome an article, 
by the addition of cream, in the proportion of a cup of 
whipped cream to a pint of dressing, those to whom oil 
has not become agreeable can so modify its ''tone'' that 
they, too, will enjoy the mayonnaise dressing. 

BOILED AND CBEAM DRESSINGS. 

For the French and mayonnaise dressings — ^particu- 
larly for the latter — we sometimes substitute a boiled 



SALADS. 201 

and sometimes a cream dressing. In the first, butter, 
or cream, is substitufaBd for oil, and the materials are 
combined by cooking. In the latter, as the name im- 
plies, cream is the basis, and this may be either sweet 
or sour. 

IMPORTANT POINTS IN SALAD-MAKING. 

(1) The green vegetables should be served fresh and 
crisp. 

(2) Meat and fish should be well marinated and cold. 

(3) The ingredients composing the salad should not 
be combined until the last moment before serving. 

WHEN TO SERVE SALADS WITH FRENCH OR MAYONNAISE 
DRESSING. 

As a rule, subject, however, to exceptions, light vege- 
table salads, dressed with French dressing, are served 
at dinner; while heavy meat or fish salads are reserved 
for luncheon, or supper, and are served with mayon- 
naise or cream dressing. 

A FEW COMBINATIONS. 

Dress each vegetable separately with the dressing; 
then arrange upon the serving-dish. Or, have the salad 
arranged upon the serving-dish and pour the dressing 
over all; then toss together and serve. About three 
tablespoonfuls of oil, with other ingredients in accord- 
ance, will be needed for one pint of vegetable. 

1. Lettuce, tomatoes cut in halves, sprinkled with 
powdered tarragon, and parsley or chives. 

2. Lettuce, moulded spinach and fine-chopped beets. 

3. Lettuce, Boston baked beans and chives. 

4. Lettuce and peppergrass. 

5. Lettuce, shredded sweet peppers or pimentos, and 
sliced pecan nuts or almonds. 



203 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

6. Lettuce^ tomatoes stuffed with peas or string- 
beans eul smally and chives chopped fine. 

7. Lettuce^ asparagus tips and sliced radishes. Ar- 
range the lettuce at the edge of dish^ inside a ring of 
radishes sliced thin^ without removing the red skins; 
center of asparagus tips^ with radish cut to resemble a 
flower. 

8. Lettuce^ shredded tomatoes and shredded green 
peppers. 

9. Shredded lettuce, English walnuts, and almonds 
or cooked chestnuts, sliced. 

10. Lettuce, Neufchatel cheese in slices and shred- 
ded pimentos. 

11. Lettuce, cauliflower, string-beans and shredded 
pimentos. 

12. Lettuce or cress, artichoke slices and powdered 
tarragon. 

13. Shredded cabbage and shredded green peppers. 

14. Cauliflower broken into flowerets, string-beans 
cut into small pieces, and beets cut in fancy shapes or 
chopped. Arrange each vegetable in a mass by itself ; 
surround with lettuce. 

15. Cucumbers and new onions, sliced. 

16. Watercress, diced boiled beets, and olives in 
center. 

17. Lettuce, Brussels sprouts and chopped pepper. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Boole. 

A delicious cream boiled dressing for salads that may 
be used where oil is not liked. Cream two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, add a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, 
half a tcav*5poonful each of mustard and paprika, or a 



SALADS. 203 

dash of cayenne in place of the latter. Put the yolks 
of two eggs slightly beaten in a double boiler, add slowly 
four tablespoonfuls of hot tarragon, or plain vinegar, 
beating constantly until thick. Eemove from the fire, 
add the seasoned butter, beat thoroughly, and when per- 
fectly cold add three-quarters of a cup of whipped 
cream and serve. 

FBENGH DRESSING. 

Six tablespoonfuls of oil, three tablespoonfuls of malt 
vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. 
Add salt and white pepper to taste. Mix well together. 
Serve with lettuce, cold asparagus, etc. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Six tablespoonfuls of oil, three tablespoonfuls of malt 
vinegar, one-half tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, salt 
and white pepper to taste, the white of one egg, and four 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix well together with wire 
whisk. Serve with lettuce, cold asparagus, etc. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tablespoon of 
lemon juice. Mix salt, red pepper, a little mustard, and a 
trifle of sugar; stir smooth with oil; to these ingre- 
dients add the oil and vinegar. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

A scant half teaspoonful of mustard and a little 
water mixed to a thick paste. Stir in the yolk of one 
egg, then add olive oil — ^a teaspoonful or two at a time 
until you have the desired amount. Stir constantly 
with a fork. Season with vinegar, salt, dash of cayenne, 
and lemon juice, if desired. Should the dressing 



204 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

thicken too quickly^ thin it with vinegar. Should it 
curdle, commence again with a little mustard paste, 
yolk of another egg, and gradually stir in the first mix- 
ture. Keep on ice until served. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Have at hand the yolks of two eggs, one-half of a 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half of an eggspoonful of mus- 
tard, and a little white pepper. Mix the yolks and mus- 
tard together with a fork, then add olive oil very slowly 
— ^not more than a few drops at a time. Keep stirring 
and adding the oil until the mixture becomes thick 
and creamy. Add salt, white pepper, and malt and 
tarragon vin|egax — more malt ithan tarragon. The 
vinegar will serve to make it thin, so use it accordingly. 
Serve with lettuce, celery, tomatoes, etc. 

UNION OLUB DBESSINO. 

Have at hand two hard-boiled eggs, — ^very hard, — 
two pimento peppers, one-half of a small onion, one- 
small bunch of chives, one small garlic, and three or 
four sprigs of tarragon. Chop the peppers, onion, garlic, 
and chives very fine, also the fresh tarragon. Take 
the white of one egg and mince it very fine — ^you can 
do this with a fork. Hub the yolks of two eggs through 
a sieve, mix with the white of an egg, and then add six 
tablespoonfuls of oil and two of tarragon vinegar, the 
chopped peppers, onion, chives, and garlic, salt to taste 
and a dash of red pepper. Stir briskly for five minutes 
or more. Be sure to have it properly mixed and it will 
be quite thick. Serve with lettuce or watercress in 
place of French dressing. 



SALADS. 205 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mrs. W. B. Ricketts. 

Two eggs well beaten^ one small tablespoonful 
sugar, one teaspoonful mustard (scant) , one-half cup 
vinegar, one-third cup of water, two teaspoonfuls corn- 
starch. Cook in steamer, stir until thickened. Add 
piece of butter size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. 
Keep in a cool place. When ready to use this thin with 
cream. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALADS. 

Mrs. W. A. Durie. 

One egg beaten till light, one-half teaspoon of 
salt, one tablespoon of sugar, juice of quarter of a 
lemon. After these are well mixed, add half a cup of 
cream, and beat till thick. 

GRAND UNION SALAD. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

Take half a head of cabbage, shred it as fine as 
possible, one green pepper cut very fine, one tomato 
sliced very thin, one teaspoonful and a half of salt, 
two tablespoonf uls of the best cider vinegar, and three 
tablespoonfuls of the best olive oil, a dash of red 
pepper. Mix all well together and pour over and serve. 
(Good.) 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York. 

Cabbage cut very thin, add one green pepper, and 
one Spanish pepper, a stalk of celery cut in shreds, 
slices of cucumbers. Cover with French dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 



206 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

OABBAGE SALAD. 

Mrs. Lambert, Professional Cook. 
One hard head of cabbage, two or three green 
peppers, one stalk of celery; shave the cabbage ana 
chop the peppers and celery. Dressing: Yolks of 
three eggs, half a teaspoon salt, tablespoon of sugar, 
butter size of an egg. Put this over boiling water and 
stir until it thickens, and add a quarter of a cup of 
vinegar, and when cold add a quarter cup of cream. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

EGG SALAD. 

Mrs. C. M. Oould, Bay Side, Long Island. 
Take as many eggs as needed, boil until hard, take 
out the yolks carefully, chop the whites. Arrange 
lettuce leaves or cress on a dish, making nests of the 
whites of the eggs; put one whole yolk in each nest 
Pour French dressing over them. 

DAISY SALAD. 

Mrs. W. F. Brown. 
Place on the bottom of a salad dish a layer of 
mayonnaise, or cooked dressing, on the top arrange 
small crisp leaves of lettuce. Cook the eggs in water 
(180 degrees) twenty minutes, plunge in cold water. 
Cut the whites of eggs into six large petals, arrange 
them on the lettuce to simulate the petals of daisies; 
and heap the yolks, which have been pressed through 
a strainer, in the center. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 
Season cold boiled spinach with butter, pepper, salt 
and lemon juice, and press into shallow cups. Put these 



SALADS. 207 

oa ice overnight^ if possible. Just before serving, nn- 
mouldy hollow out little round places in the center of 
each^ and fill with mayonnaise. Garnish the individual 
salad plates with watercress and egg rings. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Lay large^ well-cooked asparagus in a salad bowl, 
having all the heads one way, and pour over a liberal 
French dressing. Serve thoroughly cold. 

DEOOY SALAD. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes, 

Lay fresh watercress in water until it is crisp. Dry 
thoroughly, lay in a salad dish, and cover with thin 
slices of sour apple. Sprinkle over this hard-boiled 
egg, chopped fine, and serve with a French dressing. 
This salad is recommended as an accompaniment to 
roast duck. 

TOMATO A8PI0. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oilchristy HohoTcen. 

For twelve people one can of tomatoes will be re- 
quired. Strain and put them in a saucepan, with one 
tablespoonsful of granulated sugar, and a quarter of 
slice of onion, two bay-leaves, a teaspoonf ul of salt, half 
a teaspoonf ul of paprika. Bring to boiling point and 
add three-fourths of a box of gelatine which has been 
soaked in one-half cup of cold water for half an hour. 
Mix until dissolved, add the juice of half a lemon and 
strain again. Four into egg cups, or small fancy 
moulds. Stand on ice four or five hours. When time 
to serve, dip each mould quickly into boiling water 
and turn its contents out on a lettuce leaf. Serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. 



208 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

EOTPTIAN SALAD. 

Mrs. Charles A, Oilchrist, Soboken. 

Boil until tender one three-pound chicken. When 
cold cut the meat from the bones and cut into one->half 
inch cubes. Wash a pair of sweetbreads in cold water, 
put them in boiling water, add two bay leaves, one slice 
of onion and four cloves. Boil slowly for half an hour. 
When cold pick into pieces, rejecting the membrane. 
Mix with the chicken, then add one-fourth pound of al- 
monds that have been blanched and slightly browned 
in the oven, half a pint of pine nuts, washed and slight- 
ly browned. Just before serving mix with these a 
quart of celery cut into small pieces, two teaspoonfuls 
of salt, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful of currie-powder, and the juice of two lem- 
ons. Mix thoroughly with a pint of mayonnaise dress- 
ing and serve on lettuce. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

Prepare as lettuce salad, first rubbing over the bowl 
with a clove of garlic cut in halves. A few sprigs of 
chives, chopped fine, are exceedingly palatable, 
sprinkled over a lettuce, endive, string-bean, or other 
bean salad. 

LETTUCE FOR SALAD. 

M. 8. 5., PitUford, N. Y. 

When the lettuce is to be kept for a day or more 
before using, look over the head and remove any yel- 
lowed or decayed portions, or edges of leaves, without 
breaking the head itself; dip it into a pan of cold water 
and let stand for a few moments that the water may 
penetrate to the center, then lift out, roll in a square 



SALADS. 209 



or wetted cheese-cloth, then in thick paper, and lay on 
ice. Before it is to be used, open and separate the head, 
washing each leaf thoroughly. Let stand in a pan of 
clean water (as cold as possible) for twenty minutes, 
then dry each leaf separately and thoroughly on a soft 
cloth. Unless the lettuce was in a very wUted condition 
at the beginning, this treatment should give crisp leaves. 
When ice is on hand the cleansing can be done earlier 
in the day, and wet leaves wrapped in a wet cloth can 
be laid in the ice-box to be dried when needed. 

LSTTUOB SALAD. 

Claybom, Mrs, Gould's Butler. 

Take two heads of lettuce, take off the outside leaves, 
pull it apart, wash thoroughly, do not let the water run 
on it, it will cause them to bruise; wrap up, put on ice 
for two hours before serving. 

French Dressing No. 1. For six people take six 
tablespoons of olive oil, two dessertspoons vinegar, two 
saltspoons salt, and two of pepper, one tablespoonful 
of chopped onions and green pepper. Mix oil, pep- 
per and salt together, add the vinegar. Let it stand a 
quarter of an hour; when ready to serve beat till 
thick, then apply to the lettuce. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Clayiom, Mrs. Gould's Butler. 

For six people, take a half dozen potatoes, cut in 
dice; take three small onions, one green pepper, some 
parsley, chopped fine together. Put in a salad bowl 
the potatoes, sprinkle in green pepper and onions, apply 
in the dressing, put in the ice box until ready to serve. 



210 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

French Dressing No. 2. Three tablespoons olive oil, 
one dessertspoon of vinegar, one saltspoon of salt, one 
saltspoon white pepper; mix together one onion, one 
green pepper, one stalk of celery, add it to your olive 
oil and vinegar. Use this with lettuce salad also. 

POTATO SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE. 

Mrs. E. B. Knight, Montclair, N. J. 

Boil the potatoes and let cool without paring. Then 
remove the skins and cut into slices, balls, or cubes. 
Squeeze over them a little onion juice, sprinkle with 
fine-chopped parsley, and let stand in a French dress- 
ing several hours. Mix the dressing after the usual for- 
mula, and use enough to moisten well the potato. When 
ready to serve, make nests of heart leaves of lettuce, 
put a spoonful of the potato in each, with a teaspoon- 
f ul of mayonnaise above, sprinkle the mayonnaise with 
capers, and press the quarter of a hard-boiled egg into 
the top of the mayonnaise. Or add the chopped white 
^^ egg to the potato before marinating, and sift the 
yolk over the mayonnaise. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn. 

Boil twelve medium-sized potatoes, and let them 
cool; boil four eggs hard and let get cold. Slice the 
potatoes and egg; have a mayonnaise dressing ready; 
put a layer of the sliced potatoes on the bottom of the 
salad bowl, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with 
small white pickled onions, put two or three pieces of 
the egg and cover with the mayonnaise; repeat until 
the ingredients are all used and cover the top with 
mayonnaise; let stand two hours in the refrigerator to 



SALADS. 211 



get perfectly cold, before serving; toss up the salad 
with the salad fork and spoon, mixing thoroughly, and 
serve. 

WALDORF POTATO SALAD. 

Table Talk. 

Scrub small German or Holland potatoes and boil 
until tender. Drain and cool, then peel and cut in thin 
slices, then in quarters. There should be a good pint. 
Pare and dice one firm cucumber, cut two button 
onions in paper thin slices and a half cupful of shelled 
pecan nuts in strips. Mix one-half cupful of stiff may- 
onnaise with three or four tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream, and lightly stir it through the mixed ingre-^ 
dients. Fill lettuce cups with the mixture and garnish 
each plate with halved pimolas and a spoonful of may- 
onnaise. 

COLD MEAT AND POTATO SALAD. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Cut one pound of cold meat into inch squares and 
mix with one pint of chopped, cold boiled potatoes. Put 
a layer in the bottom of a salad bowl, sprinkle with a 
little parsley, celery, and onion, chopped very fine, and 
moisten with a salad dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, and 
white pepper. Then spread another layer of meat and 
potato, and so on till all is used. This dish should 
stand for two or three hours before serving. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 



Slice three cucumbers very thin, chop fine two hard- 
boiled eggs, a few radishes, two green peppers, and 
two cold boiled beets. Stir all together lightly and 



212 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

muc with French dressing. Serve with lettuce, and 
garnish with slices of egg, beet and pepper. 

CUCUMBEB JELLY SALAD. 

M. S. R. 

Fare and cut fine three large cucumbers. Fut in 
an agate saucepan with one small onion cut fine, one 
teaspoonf ul of peppercorns, two tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar and a pint and a half of cold water. Heat and 
stew slowly until very tender. Add one-half of a pack- 
age of Cox's gelatine, soaked in one-half of a cup- 
ful of cold water, and stir until dissolved. Strain 
through wetted cheese-cloth. Add enough leaf green 
color paste to color a pale green and set aside to chill. 
When beginning to thicken, line small wetted moulds 
with thin slices of fresh cucumber, pour in the thicken- 
ing jelly, and place on ice until firm. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise or a French dressing. 

WALDORP NUT SALAD. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 

Blanched almonds (two dozen nuts or more), three 
medium-sized apples, heart of celery stalk, one table- 
spoonful of chopped peanuts. Dressing: One-half cup 
of butter, yolks of three or four eggs, well beaten, one- 
half gill of vinegar, and made mustard. 

NORWEGIAN SALAD. 

Table Talk. 

Take one-half of a cupful each of the following in- 
gredients: Cold cooked chicken, boiled tongue, smoked 
herring, boiled potatoes and boiled string-beans — ^the 
beans cut fine, other articles diced; add one-quarter of 



SALADS. 213 



a cupful of diced boiled carrots. Mix all thoroughly^ 
add a liberal quantity of French dressing and keep 
turning through carefully for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Serve on lettuce or watercress and pass mayonnaise 
with it. 

PEPPER AND ONION SALAD. 

Tested. 

Two very young, green chilli peppers, six young 
onions, double the quantity of crisp celery, all shred- 
ded and mixed with the centers scooped out of six 
small tomatoes, adding a little mayonnaise and salt to 
taste, makes a filling for the tomatoes which proves a 
perfect accompaniment to a breaded veal chop. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

Tested. 

Tomatoes stuffed with peanuts. Feel and hollow 
the tomatoes in the usual way, saving the contents thus 
scooped out for a soup or scallop. Blanch the peanuts 
or merely rub off the brown skin in a rough towel, then 
pound in a mortar, adding a little mayonnaise to make 
a smooth mixture; fill the cavities with this. The ex- 
periment of mixing peanut butter with the crumbs of 
French bread dipped in broth, squeezed perfectly dry, 
and using mixed with mayonnaise as above for a fill- 
ing, made a most expeditious and almost as good a 
salad. 

CRESS,-CUCUMBER-AND-TOMATO SALAD. 

Table Talk. 

Wash the cress and shake dry; arrange as a bed on 
a serving-dish, discarding the coarse stems; above this 
make a smaller bed of cucumbers, cut in slices or dice 



214 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and dressed with French dressings using three table- 
spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar or lemon juice to a 
pint of cucumber. Arrange peeled tomatoes, clulled 
and cut in pieces, upon the cucumbers. Serve with 
French, cream or mayonnaise dressing. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CUCUMBER. 

Janet McKewsie Hill, Boston. 

Peel five tomatoes, cut off the stem ends and scoop 
out the pulp, thus forming cups; set, turned upside 
down, in a cool place. Chop fine the solid pulp from 
the tomatoes and one cucumber, chilled before chop- 
ping; stir into a cup of cream dressing and fill the to- 
matoes with the mixture. Salt and pepper will be need- 
ed in addition to that in the dressing. If at hand, a 
pimento may be chopped with the other ingredients, or 
two tablespoonfuls. 

ENDIVE,-TOMATO-AND-G?EEN-STRINQ-BEAN SALAD. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston^ 

Dress the well-blanched stalks of a head of endive, 
three tomatoes, peeled, cut in halves and chilled, and a 
cup of cold cooked string-beans, separately, with 
French dressing, using in the dressing tarragon vine- 
gar and a few drops of onion juice; then arrange on a 
serving-dish. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD. 

Used as a harder for shrimp, lobster, chicken and other 



Mrs. E. M. Lucas, in Boston Cooking-School Magazine. 

Cut boiled artichokes into quarter-inch slices and 
stamp out with a French vegetable cutter. To half 



SALADS. 216 

a pint add one tablespoonf ul of olive oil, half a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar and one-fourth a tea^ 
spoonful of salt; toss lightly together and let stand one 
hour; drain, and arrange as a border with an outer lay- 
er of tiny blanched lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO-AND-ARTICHOKE SALAD. 

Mrs, E. M. Lucas, in Boston Cooking^Sckool Magazine. 

Choose medium-sized tomatoes, firm and smooth 
skinned. Peel them, cut a slice from the stem end and 
remove the seeds with a small spoon. Sprinkle the in- 
terior of these cups with salt and set on ice. When 
ready to serve, wipe them dry and fill with artichokes 
out into dice and mixed with mayonnaise. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. Use tarragon vinegar in preparing the 
dressing. Cook the artichoke hearts until just tender, 
no longer, in salted boiling water, then drain and cool. 

BUSSIAN SALAD. 

Mrs, Gould's French Chef. 

Two small carrots, one turnip, a few small peas, a 
few green beans, one or two potatoes, cut up, other veg- 
etables if you wish; cut in very small pieces, put in 
boiling* water with salt and cook three-quarters of an 
hour. Strain and let get cold. Use mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

CELERY-AND-CHESTNUT SALAD. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston. 

Shell and blanch the chestnuts; then boil about fif- 
teen minutes, or until tender; drain and cool. When 
cool cut into quarters, add an equal quantity of fine- 



216 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

sliced celery, dress with French dressing, and serve 
on lettuce leaves. Sliced pimentos may he added. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Boil together one carrot, an onion, three stalks of 
celery, a little parsley; then add one can of tomatoes 
and one teaspoonf ul of extract of heef . Boil ten min- 
utes and strain, then add one-half of a hox of Cox's gela- 
tine, dissolved in cold water. Eetum to the fire, sea- 
son, and let it boil up once. Serve in individual moulds, 
with lettuce and mayonnaise. 

TOMATO SALAD IN OUCUMBEK SHELLS. 

Mrs, Elmer 8. Forbes, 

Peel fresh large cucumbers, cut them in halves 
lengthwise, scoop out the centers, and put them in ice 
water. Chop ripe tomatoes, add a bunch of watercress, 
chopped fine. Fill the shells and cover with French 
dressing. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH NUTS AND CELERY. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

Peel the tomatoes; cut out a circular piece at the 
stem end of each and scoop out the flesh so as to form 
cups. Chill thoroughly, then fill with English walnut 
or pecan meats, broken into pieces, and celery, cut into 
small pieces, and mixed with mayonnaise. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

This salad is a new one and well worth trying. To 
make it, slice evenly in thick pieces good-sized toma- 
toes, two slices to a person. Cut slices of bread very 



SALADS. 217 

thin and cut out in rounds, the same size as the toma^ 
to slices. Spread the bread thickly with stiff mayon- 
naise, and arrange the whole on lettuce, piling tomato, 
bread and tomato. Cover the top with more mayon- 
naise and arrange five half olives on each in the form 
of a star. 

TOMATO JELLY WITH STRING BEANS. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston, 
Cook tiny string beans until tender in boiling salted 
water; season while hot with onion juice, salt, pepper 
and tarragon vinegar. When cold add oil and toes the 
beans about until each bean is coated with the oil. Fill 
the center of the jelly, fashioned in a ring mould, with 
the beans, and sprinkle over them a fine-chopped pi- 
mento. Garnish with lettuce leaves. Fine-chopped 
chives may be used in the place of the onion juice; they 
are particularly appropriate in any bean salad. If the 
beans are large, cut in halves lengthwise and the halves 
crosswise. 

Tomato jelly may be served in a ring mould with 
turkey, oyster, plain chicken, French chicken, and other 
salads. The oysters should be scalded and drained, 
then marinated with French dressing. Chicken and 
turkey should also be marinated before mixing with 
celery and the mayonnaise or boiled dressing- . 

TOMATO AND STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
Peel medium size tomatoes, cut off the top and scoop 
out centre, forming a cup. Take cold boiled string 
beans, cut in small pieces, add a tablespoon each of 
chopped Spanish and green peppers and Spanish onions. 
Mix this with a mayonnaise ^ressin^ and fill the tomato 



218 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

cup with same, placing a tablespoon of mayonnaise on 
top of filling. Place tomato cup on lettuce leaf and 
serve. 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Mrs, Livingston Gifford. 

Peel and slice tomatoes, make cheese balls from 
cream cheese, mixed with a little cream and a pinch of 
paprika and salt; roll cheese balls in chopped parsley, 
and form in pyramid shape on slices of tomatoes. 
Place on lettuce leaves and serve with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CAUUFLOWEB SALAD IN RED PEPPER SHELLS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Select medium-size red peppers, removing all seeds 
and membranes from center. Take cold boiled cauli- 
flower, cut in small pieces, and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing, placing same in red pepper shell ; place a good 
size floweret of the cauliflower in center of top of pep- 
per, edging it with parsley leaves and place a teaspoon 
of mayonnaise dressing in center of cauliflower. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Soak the cauliflower in salted water an hour; cook 
in boiling salted water until tender; drain and clull, 
then sprinkle with French dressing and set aside for 
half an hour. Sever the flowerets partly from the 
stalk, but so as not to change their relative positions, 
and place on a serving-dish; put heart leaves of let- 
tuce between the flowerets and about the base of the 
vegetable; pour a cup of mayonnaise dressing over the 
whole, and sprinkle with pimentos or fine-chopped 



SALADS. 219 

parsley. In servings separate the flowerets with a 
sharp knife. 

CORN SALAD. 

The possibilities of green com as a salad do not 
seem to be known to many housekeepers, but 
properly prepared nothing is more palatable. The 
com should first be boiled until well done and then 
cut from the cob with a sharp knife and allowed to 
cool. When thomghly cold mix with sliced cucumbers, 
string beans, finely sliced young onions and asparagus 
tips. Mix thoroughly with a French dressing and put 
into a bowl lined witji lettuce leaves. Corn and ap- 
ples mixed together make a delicious salad, and the 
cold com alone with lettuce hearts is very appetizing 
served with a mayonnaise. A succotash salad of com 
and beans with a French dressing made with Tarragon 
vinegar makes a fine relish for a summer meal. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Mrs. Charles C. Thomas. 
Soak one pair of sweetbreads in cold water for twen- 
ty minutes, then boil in salted water for twenty min- 
utes. Cool and cut in slices, mix with one cup of cel- 
ery, cut in small pieces, cover with French dressing, 
and chill for one-half hour. Serve with lettuce and 
one cup of mayonnaise dressing. 

OREEN-AND-WHITE SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 
Cut cooked chicken or sweetbreads in half-inch 
cubes; remove the skin and seeds from white grapes, 
and cut each grape in halves; cut tender blanched cel- 
ery stalks in small pieces. Take equal portions of cel- 
ery and meat and half as much of seeded grapes. Mix 



220 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

with French dressing; the meat should stand in the 
dressing an hour or more, when ready to serve. Serve 
in nests of lettuce. Dispose a little white mayonnaise 
or cream dressing on each nest. Garnish with halves 
of blanched pistachio nuts. 

CHICKEN SALAD FOB TWENTY PEOPLE. 

Mrs. F. W. Eveleth. 

Twelve pounds chicken^ cut in inch pieces. Half as 
much celery^ cut fine. Mix lightly with mayonnaise 
dressing and garnish with lettuce leaves. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One pint salad oil, yolks of two eggs^ one teaspoon 
mustard^ one teaspoon salt^ vinegar enough to make as 
thin as heavy cream. Beat the yolks of eggs with mus- 
tard, add the oil slowly, beating hard, then add salt^ 
vinegar, and teaspoon powdered sugar. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Bemove the meat from a chicken that has been boiled 
in salted water, and cut into pieces about one inch 
square. Wash and scrape some nice celery. Soak in 
cold water to make it crisp. Dry thoroughly and cut in 
pieces about the same size as the chicken. Have about 
three-quarters as much celery as you have chicken. 
Mix both together and make very moist and rich with 
a mayonnaise dressing. Arrange on dish, shape nicely, 
and cover with more dressing. Garnish and trim with 
white celery leaves, hard-boiled egg, and a few capers 
sprinkled over the top. 



SALADS. 221 

CHICKEN SALAD JELLY. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 
One can of chicken consomme, or one quart of clear 
chicken stock, one box of gelatine, breast of a boiled 
fowl, cut in very small cubes. Make a jelly of the con- 
somme and gelatine, seasoning to taste, and when it be- 
gins to stiffen pour into individual moulds. 

TUBKEY-AND-CHESTNUT SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 
Prepare the chestnuts as previously directed, using 
twice as much turkey meat, light or dark, cut into 
small cubes. Serve with lettuce and French, boiled or 
mayonnaise dressing, as desired. Marinate and drain 
the meat before adding the nuts. 

DUCK-AND-OLIVE SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 
Cut the meat from a duck in small pieces, and slice 
pimolas very thin; use two tablespoonfuls of pimolas to 
a cup of meat. Serve on a bed of cress with a French 
dressing. 

DUOK-AND-OBANGE SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

Slice the oranges lengthwise; use twice as much duck 
as fruit Dress with oil, salt, and paprika, and serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

HAM SALAD. 

Soak half a tablespoonful of Cox's gelatine in one 
tablespoonful and a half of cold water, and dissolve 
in tfaree-fourths of a cup of hot chicken liquor. 
Strain o¥er one cup of chopped ham and stir until the 
mixture begins to thicken, th^n fold in one cup of 



222 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

thick cream^ beaten stiff; add, also, a few grains of 
paprika and salt, if needed. Mould in a ring mould, 
and when set and cold, turn from the.mould ; fill in the 
center with lettuce arranged like a cup, and fill the cup 
with mayonnaise. Or, serve with French dressing. 

TURQUOISE SALAD.* 

Mix together equal parts of celery and tart apple, cut 
ill match-like pieces, and one or two pimentos, cut in 
similar pieces. Dress with mayonnaise, made light 
with whipped cream. Serve in nests of lettuce. 

TURQUOISE SALAD.* 

Use pineapple in the place of the apple; serve in a 
mound on a bed of lettuce leaves. Garnish with stars 
cut from the pimentos with French cutter, curled cel- 
ery, and heart leaves of celery. 

SALAD CHIFFONADE.* 

Seed two green peppers, boil two or three minutes, 
then cut in shreds. Shred the light and dark leaves of 
a head of lettuce, or endive, separately. Cut three to- 
matoes in shreds. Remove the peel and skin from one 
large grapefruit. Serve with French dressing, season- 
ing, and then arranging each article separately upon 
the serving-dish, having a circle of light and then dark 
green material about the edge. 

GREEN-PEA SALAD.* 

Mix the peas with a cream dressing; serve in nests of 
lettuce; garnish the top of each nest with a little 
chopped beet, or a fanciful figure cut from a pickled 
beet or pimento. 

*From "Salftdt. Sandwiches and Ohaflne Dlah Dainties/' by Janet 
McKende Hill, Boston. 



SALADS. 



GKEEN-PEA AND POTATO SALAD.* 

Mix equal parts of cold cooked peas and potatoes^ 
cut in very small cubes; season with salt and pepper, 
and serve as green-pea salad. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD.* 

Scrape the scales from the stalks, and cook, stand- 
ing upright in boiling salted water, until tender; drain 
and chill thoroughly. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
French dressing. Garnish the lettuce with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in quarters lengthwise. 

STUFFED BEETS.* 

Boil new beets, of even size, until tender. Set aside 
for some hours, or overnight, covered with vinegar. 
When ready to serve, rub off the skin, scoop out the 
center of each to form a cup, and arrange the cups on 
lettuce leaves. For each five cups chop fine a cucum- 
ber. Make a French dressing of two tablespoonfuls of 
oil, half a tablespoonful (scant) of vinegar, one-fourth 
a teaspoonful, each, of paprika and salt. Stir the dress- 
ing into the cucumber and fill the beets with the mix- 
ture. Of the beet removed to form the cups, cut slices 
and stamp out from these stars or other fanciful shapes 
and use to decorate the top of each cup. Chopped rad- 
ish, cress, olives, or celery are all admissable for a fill- 
ing.. 

SALADS. 

Tested. 

A delicious salad recently served at a luncheon con- 
sisted of celery, green peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers, 
stuffed olives, and English walnuts. All were cut into 

*From "Salads, Sandwiches and Ohaflne Dlah Dainties," by Janet 
McKenzle HUl, Boston. 



224 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

amall pieces, mixed thoroughly with French dressing, 
and served on crisp lettuce leaves. Both salad and 
dressing were very cold. If the above mixture is cut 
fine it may be used for filling tomato, cucumber, or 
green pepper shells. Another new salad combines bar 
le due jelly and cream cheese. The two are rubbed to 
a paste; pack the mixture in a mould and freeze. Then 
cut into squares and heap on lettuce leaves with may- 
onnaise. 

This salad is new and pretty: Break up two square 
cream cheeses and mix with two dozen olives and six 
pimentos, both chopped rather fine, or, instead, with 
two dozen pimolas, which are olives stuffed with pimen- 
tos; press this into a pan and put on ice, and when you 
wish to use it cut in strips and serve on lettuce with 
French dressing. The contrasting colors of the green 
olives, the scarlet pimentos, and the white cheese give 
8 most attractive effect. 

CBANBEBRY AND CHEESE SALAD. 

A very stiff jelly is moulded in a jelly tumbler; then 
slipped on a dish containing cheese salad balls on let- 
tuce. 

LETTUCE SALAD WITH CHEESE BALLS. 

Table Talk. 

This is a novelty in the salad line. Take a cream 
cheese and work smooth with a fork, adding gradually 
just enough thick, sweet cream to make a stiff paste. 
Divide into three or more portions. Color one por- 
tion green with parsley and chives, pounded to a paste; 
another red, with pounded sweet red pepper or spiced 
beets, chopped fine; a third yellow, with crushed yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg; a fourth brown, with pounded 



SALADS. 225 

pecan nuts. Mould in tiny balls and put one or more 
of each color in nests made with lettuce leaves. 

CHESSE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Cheese and celery salad will assume a very decora- 
tive effect if the housekeeper owns one of the little 
cone shaped moulds with revolving knife or cutter used 
for dipping ice cream from the freezer. Bub the in- 
side lightly with olive oil; mix cream cheese to a paste 
with a little cream. Line the mould with this, fill the 
center with celery^ cut fine and mixed with mayon- 
naise; carefully turn out on a lettuce leaf. 

YANKEE SALAD. 

Table Talk. 

This salad may aptly be termed Yankee, since all 
its ingredients are homegrown vegetables — ^peas, cu- 
cumbers, beans^ spinach, radishes, and lettuce. The 
dressing is made with apple vinegar, olive oil and salt. 

ITALTAN SALAD. 

Table Tcdk. 

Mould cooked macaroni in tomato jelly; when serv- 
ing, fill the center with a mixture of cooked chopped 
clams, macaroni and celery, moistened with mayon- 
naise. Garnish with sliced pimolas and lettuce. 

A filling is made for bell peppers with tomatoes 
peeled and cut fine, a Spanish onion also minced very 
small and an equal bulk of cracker crumbs freshly 
rolled. Season with salt, lemon juice and a very little 
oil. Cut the tops from the peppers, take out seeds 
and veins and lay in cold water till ready to use. Then 
fill with this mixture, place in a cup of lettuce leaves 



226 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and pour on a French dressing. Sardine or anchovy 
toast makes a nice accompaniment. 

HOW TO PREPARE AND USB ASPIO JELLY. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

To make aspic for moulding or decorating a fish 
salad, use stock prepared from chicken or veal, or 
from fish. For chicken, veal, or sweetbread salad, use 
chicken or veal stock, or a light-colored consomme. In 
an emergency aspic may be made from the prepared ex- 
tracts of beef, or from bouillon capsules. Aspic is 
often tinted delicately to harmonize with a particular 
color scheme. A light green aspic has been found quite 
efl!ective. 

To one quart of highly seasoned stock, freed from 
all fat, add the juice of a lemon, a bay leaf, half a cup 
of wine and one box of Cox's gelatine, soaked in a cup of 
cold water. Beat into the mixture the slightly beaten 
whites and crushed shells of two eggs. Heat to the 
boiling point, stirring constantly, and let boil five min- 
utes. After standing ten minutes skim off the froth, 
etc., and strain through a cheesecloth folded double 
and held in a colander. 

ASPIC FOR GARNISHING. 

Pour the liquid jelly into a new tin to the depth of 
half an inch. Wring a napkin out of cold water and 
spread it smoothly over the meat board. Dip the pan 
in warm water and turn the jelly on the napkin; 
stamp in round, diamonds or other fanciful shapes. If 
blocks of greater thickness be required, fill the pan to 
the required depth with the liquid aspic. When turned 
from the mould, cut in squares or diamonds with a 
knife, wiped dry after having been dipped in hot water. 



SALADS. 227 



TO CHOP JELLY. 

Cut the jelly slowly, first in one direction, then in 
the opposite direction. Each piece, whether large or 
small, should be clean-cut and distinct. Aspic melts 
or softens in a warm place, and should not be taken 
from the mould until the time of serving, and then it 
must be handled with care. 



A8PI0 JELLY. 

Mrs. Elmer 8, Forbes. 

Cook together for ten minutes one tablespoonful each 
of finely chopped carrot, onion, and celery, with a lit- 
tle parsley, a bit of bay leaf, a clove, eight whole pep- 
pers and the juice of two lemons. Have ready half a 
box of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in cold water, and two 
cups of brown stock or beef extract. Season with salt 
and pepper and add a little kitchen bouquet. Beat the 
whites of two eggs and squeeze in one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice. Add to the mixture and stir until it 
boils. Remove from the fire and allow it to stand for 
twenty minutes. Strain through cheesecloth and 
mould, in the bottom of which a slice of hard-boiled egg 
has been placed. Scatter cubes of chicken through 
the jellyy with a little chopped olives and red peppers. 
On top of each mould lay a slice of lemon. Serve very 
cold on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

One quart of cold boiled chicken, cut in cubes, with 
one can of French peas or one pint of fresh peas, and 
two large cucumbers, sliced thin. When served with 
mayonnaise and crisp lettuce make a good summer 
salad. 



228 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTEB SALAD. 

Table Talk. 

Cut boiled lobster in pieces about one-half inch in 
size^ and marinate with a French dressing. This may 
be done some time before it is served. Arrange on let- 
tuce leaves, and garnish with mayonnaise. Or the back 
and tail shells may be fitted together, lined with the 
lettuce leaves, the salad laid in, and the best looking 
claws uSv^d in addition to the other garnishes. 

OYSTER AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Miss Detwiller. 

Pick over, wash and drain twenty-five good-sized 
oysters. Remove the muscles of each and place in 
saucepan with a dash of salt and pepper. Cover close- 
ly and shake over a hot fire until they look plump and 
the gills begin to ruffle; then drain and chill. Pare 
and cut one cucumber into dice. Add two drops of 
tabasco to French dressing and pour over the mixed 
oysters and cucumbers. Add the blanched parts of a 
head of lettuce finely shredded, arrange on lettuce 
leaves and put a spoonful of mayonnaise on each. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston, 

Scald oysters until they are plump, and then put 
them in cold water while they are boiling hot, so as 
to make them firm. Put them to one side and boil 
five eggs hard. Take off the whites and chop very fine. 
Lay a bed of white lettuce in a long dish. Place the 
oysters in tliis. Cover the oysters with a mayonnaise 
dressing. Over them place the yolks of the eggs, which 
have been mashed . very fine, and lastly the chopped 



SALADS. 229 



whites of the eggs. Do not let it stand very long be- 
fore serving. If you do, the oysters and mayonnaise 
will become watery. Be sure the lettuce is thoroughly 
dried. 

OYSTER-AND SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

Cut a pair of cold cooked sweetbreads into cubes. 
Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, cool, and cut in 
halves; marinate the sweetbreads and oysters with 
French dressing, and allow them to stand at least half 
an hour; drain, mix with mayonnaise, and serve on a 
bed of lettuce or cress. Or, surround with a circle of 
chopped cucumbers seasoned with French dressing. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Booh. 

Take the shrimps from the shells, reserve the most 
perfect for garnishing, and break the others into pieces ; 
marinate with French dressing. When ready to serve, 
drain, and mix with shredded lettuce, or celery, cut 
fine, and mayonnaise. Shape in a mound on a bed of 
lettuce leaves and mask with mayonnaise. Use capers 
or olives, chopped very fine, to mark out five or six 
designs on the mound; a scroll effect is always pretty. 
Fill in the designs with shrimps and the rest of the 
mound with capers, sifted yolks or chopped whites of 
cooked eggs; or fill the designs with the capers or eggs 
and the rest of the mound with shrimps. Finish with 
a tuft of lettuce at the top. 



230 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

80ALLOP SALAD. 

Mrs. J. L. Ayres, Marristown. 

Soak the scallops in salted water (a tablespoonful 
of salt to a quart of water) one hour; rinse in cold 
water, cover with boiling water, and let simmer five 
or six minutes. Binse again in cold water, drain, and 
when cold cut into slices. Cut white stalks of celery 
into small pieces. Mix the celery and scallops — ^half 
as much celery as scallops — with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing, and shape in a mound. Mask the mound 
with a thin coating of mayonnaise. With large-sized 
capers outline a design on each of the four sides of the 
mound, fill these with whites of eggs, cooked and 
chopped fine. Ornament with figures cut from slices 
of boiled beets. Fill in the spaces around the designs 
with capers, and garnish with green celery leaves and 
white stalks of celery, fringed. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Marion Harland, 

Lay the sardines upon soft paper, that they may 
bo freed from oil. Scrape off the skin and remove the 
bones; squeeze over them a little lemon juice. Ar- 
range upon a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, or upon 
shredded lettuce, and dress with either French or may- 
onnaise dressing. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut 
in slices. 

SABDINE SALAD. 

Marion Harland, 

Arrange a pint of cold cooked fish, flaked, on a bed 
of lettuce leaves and cover with sardine dressing. Care- 
fully split six selected sardines; remove the bones and 



SALADS. 231 

arrange the halves on the top of the salad^ with the 
heads at the center. Oamish with slices of lemon. 

BLUEFISH SALAD. EXCELLENT. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

Separate the remnants of a baked bluefish into 
flakes^ discarding skin and bones. Set aside^ covered, 
until cold. About an hour before servings sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and (for a generous pint of fish) 
the juice of a lemon. When ready to serve, dispose 
heart leaves of lettuce on the edge of a salad plate, and 
turn the fish into the center, letting it come out over 
the stems of the lettuce leaves. Pour a boiled dress- 
ing over the top, and spread evenly (with a silver knife) 
over the fish. Put a tablespoonful of chopped pickled 
beet at the stems of each group of leaves, a ring of the 
beet near the top, and figures, cut from the beet, be- 
tween. 

HALIBUT SALAD WITH GUOUMBEB SPIRALS. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Halibut salad is an appetizing warm weather dish 
for luncheon or Sunday night^s siipper. Steam a slice 
of halibut three inches thick. Its fiavor is improved 
if a soup bunch is thrown into the steamer with it. 
It is done when tender enough to remove the skin and 
bone, which should be accomplished while it is still 
hot without disturbing the shape. Pour over it a 
French dressing made of four tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil, two of vinegar, with salt and pepper to taste. When 
cold arrange on a bed of lettuce hearts and fill the 
cavity from which the bone was taken with the best 
of them. This dish is prettily garnished with curls, 



232 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

spirals^ or cups of cucumber^ made as follows: Cut a 
cucumber crosswise in sections three-quarters of an 
inch thick. Cut each section round and round in one 
long, thin paring. Mayonnaise dressing fills these cups, 
or is served with the fish in a separate sauce cup if the 
cucumbers are served in the usual way^ that is^ sliced 
with a French dressing. 

SHAD ROE aALAD. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 

Shad roe salad needs a pair of roes boiled a half hour 
in salted water. Remove from the fire and plunge in ice 
water. Drain^ skin and slice thin with a silver knife. 
Serve with French dressing and garnish with sliced 
cucumber and finely chopped chives on a bed of lettuce. 

CBEAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Miss Detwiller. 

With butter paddies make little balls of cream 
cheese, sprinkle t^dth grated sapsago cheese, serve on 
lettuce leaves with French dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

Mrs. Oeorge W. Case. 

Mash one Neufchatel cheese and moisten with a lit- 
tie milk; form into balls the size of robin^s eggs and roll 
in finely chopped parsley. Arrange in lettuce leaves 
and garnish with olives. Serve with French dressing. 

STUFFED RADISHES. 

Mrs. Oeorge W. Case. 

Split the radishes down the sides as for ordinary 
table use, and fill the ends with Neufchatel cheese, af- 
ter which roll in finely chopped parsley. 



SALADS. 233 



FOR THE SALAD COUBSB. 

Miss Orenier, New York. 

Cream cheese and Bar-le-Duc preserves served with 
deviled wafers make a delicious accompaniment to the 
salad course. Grated stale cheese is mixed with a few 
drops of Worcestershire sauce, salt and butter to form 
a paste ; spread on wafers and heat in oven. Mix with 
one cake of Philadelphia cheese one-half jar of Bar- 
le-Duc curants or gooseberries, pack into a dish so as 
to cut into cubes and when cold serve on lettuce leaves. 

This is a delightful accompaniment to a fruit salad: 
Take a cream cheese and mix it well with enough 
sweet cream to moisten it; season with salt and 
cayenne; chop fine eight stuffed olives and mix with 
the cheese. Take some short, wide pieces of nice ten- 
der celery, and trim off most of their leaves and fill 
each one with the cheese mixture ; chill well, and pass 
with thin crackers. Plain olives mixed with chopped 
walnuts may be used instead of the stuffed ones quite 
as well. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Mrs, Howland, Brooklyn. 

Choose the largest and brightest red apples you can 
find, and cut a deep slice from each at the stem end; 
scoop out the pulp from the apples and smooth the in- 
side; drop both the apples and covers into cold water 
to keep from discoloring, and leave them till they are 
needed; wipe each dry and polish it till it shines; make 
a salad with celery and English walnuts combined with 
very stiff mayonnaise, and fill the apples, fitting each 
cover carefully so that the Cut will not show; add ap- 
ples if you like. 



234 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FBUIT SALAD. 

Mrs. Baird, Yankers. 
Three oranges^ three lemong^ three bananas^ one 
pound white grapes, two ounces candied cherries, one 
pint pineapple, fresh or canned. Cut the fruit into 
dainty pieces, half and seed the grapes and thoroughly 
chill each separately. Drain the juice off and place al- 
ternate layers of fruit and powdered sugar. Mix juices 
together and sweeten and pour it oyer the fruit as a 
dressing, or serve with a mayonnaise. 

KUMQUOT SALAD. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
Mix lightly two measures of carefully cut celery, with 
one measure of kumquot oranges, cut across in thin 
slices. Add a few English walnuts, dress liberally with 
mayonnaise and serve upon a bed of lettuce. 

FRUIT SALAJ). 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 
Peel and slice four bananas, also' four oranges, 
lengthwise, carefully removing pith and seeds. Dis- 
sect half a ripe pineapple, taking the pulp from the 
core in small pieces with a silver fork. Hull and wash 
a part of a basket of strawberries. Arrange the fruit 
in the salad-bowl, making ecwjh layer smaller than the 
preceding. Pour over the dressing for fruit salad and 
serve thoroughly chilled. 

PEACH SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 
Cut ripe, fine-flavored peaches into quarters, after 
removing the skins. Cover with champagne, thorough- 
ly chilled. Serve at once on crisp lettuce. 



SALADS. 235 

CHEBBY SALAD. 

Mrs. Baird, Yankers. 

Carefully remove the pits from large, black ox-heart 
cherries (Califomias). Insert a peanut in each, and 
thoroughly chill. Form cups of heart lettuce, place a 
pyramid of cherries in each; serve with mayonnaise 
dressing; very dainty. 

CALIFORNIA CHERRY SALAD. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Wash large red California cherries, discarding bruised 
and imperfect cherries; have the cherries ice cold and 
mix with a French dressing. Place on lettuce leaves. 
Just before serving sprinkle on top of cherries some 
chopped pecan nuts. 

ORANGE AND SPANISH PEPPER SALAD. 

Mrs. Livingston Oifford. 

Peel and slice oranges. Cut one Spanish pepper into 
shreds; mix oranges and Spanish pepper together with 
a French dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGB-AND-WALNUT SALAD. 

Tested. 

This is a particularly good salad to serve with game. 
Select fine oranges, remove the peel and every particle 
of white skin, and slice very thin lengthwise. Slice 
English walnuts, blanched or plain. To each pint of 
orange slices add half a pint (scant) of the sliced nuts; 
dress with three tablespoonfuls of oil, one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of salt, and, if the oranges are particularly 
sweet, a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve on a bed 
of wat^ercress or lettuce, 



236 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

APPLE^-0ELSBY-AND-ENGLI8H-WALNUT SALAD. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston. 

Peel and cut the apples in small cubes; blanch the 
nuts and break in pieces^ and cut the celery in thin 
slices; marinate the apple and nuts with oil and lemon 
juice half an hour; drain^ add the celery and mayon- 
naise dressing, and serve in cups made by removing the 
pulp from red apples. Cut the edges of the apples in 
small Vandykes; keep fresh in cold water until ready 
to serve. 

ORANGE-AND-LITCHI-NUT SALAD. 

Janet McKeneie Hill, Boston. 

Peel the oranges and cut them into lengthwise slices. 
Crush the shells of the nuts, take out the meats^ and 
remove the stones ; cut the nut meats in halves. Mix 
the nuts with oil, a tablespoonf ul to a cup, and sprinkle 
the orange slices with oil ; add also a little lemon juice 
if the oranges are sweet. Garnish with slices of orange 
from which the skin has not been taken, also, if de- 
sired, with lettuce dressed with French dressing. The 
oil and lettuce may be omitted, using sugar in place; 
little, however, will be needed, as the nuts are sweet, 
tasting much like raisins. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Miss Sutton, Rye, N. Y. 

Peel and scrape bananas, cut in half crosswise and 
roll in chopped nuts. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream. 



SALADS. 237 



BANANA SALAD. 

Tested. 
For the salad^ get some short, thick bananas, red or 
yellow — ^red are best — and take off one slice of the 
peel; remove the pulp with a spoon, and cut it in good- 
sized bits; mix with it the pulp of an orange and half 
a cup of chopped English walnut meats, cover the whole 
with French dressing, and return to the shell; serve as 
cold as possible with thin crackers. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Miss Hellerman. 

Peel bananas, roll them in mayonnaise, place on let- 
tuce leaves with half of English-walnuts meats on top 
of banana. 

SUMMEB SALAD. 

Tested. 

Pare, eye, slice and cut a ripe pineapple in cubes; 
slice tender celery. To each pint mix in a half pint of 
broken pecan nuts; moisten with mayonnaise. Mound 
up, mask with mayonnaise and garnish with pecan nuts, 
sliced pimolas, young German lettuce and sliced hard- 
boiled eggs. 

FRUIT SALAD, WITH COOKED DRESSING. 

Mrs. E. H. A. Correa, HohoJcen, N. J. 

Bananas, oranges, pineapples, seeded California or 
Malaga grapes, with blanched almonds on a bed of let- 
tuce form the salad. Dressing: Put one-half pint of 
milk in a double boiler, add one-third cup butter rubbed 
smooth with two heaping tablespoons of flour, when 
milk begins to boil. When this is boiled smooth and 



238 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

thick^ add three well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon mustard and 
saltspoon of paprika. When all these ingredients are 
thoroughly blended, add one-half cup of vinegar. Be- 
move from fire, and when thoroughly cold, add whipped 
cream to equal portion of dressing. Place fruit on bed 
of lettuce, add dressing immediately before serving. 

TBUIT SALAD. 

Miss Charlotte Appleton, Bay Side, L. I. 

Take dainty glasses, fill them with chopped pine- 
apple, thinly sliced bananas, white grapes, cut in halves 
and seeded, the pulp and juice of an orange and can- 
died cherries. Cover with a dressing made of four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a gill of sherry, one 
tablespoonful of maraschino and two of champagne. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved and then pour over 
the fruit and let stand in a cold place one hour before 
serving. 

QRAPEFBUIT SALAD. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 

Perhaps grapefruit with French dressing has not 
been .tried. It is exceedingly good and has the merit 
also of being one of the most valuable of salads for 
affections of the digestion or liver. Peel and 
quarter the fruit, and remove all of the white skin 
and the bitter portions. Cut each quarter in two 
pieces, across the fruit, and chill on ice. Just before 
serving heap on white lettuce leaves, and pour over 
very cold French dressing. 

Peel the grapefruit with a sharp knife, then cut the 
sections apart. Sweeten with a little powdered sugar 



SALADS. 239 



and serve with lettuce and French dressing made with 
white vinegar and olive oil. One part of vinegar to two 
of oil. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston. 

Select a large, ripe pineapple, and after cutting oflE 
the top, remove the inside, leaving only the shell. 
Next remove the skin and seeds from a few grapes, 
then take two ripe bananas, skin them, and cut into 
small pieces. Also cut the pineapple and grapes in 
small pieces. Mix all with mayonnaise dressing, re- 
place in the pine shell, and serve. 

PEACH-AND-ALMOND SALAD. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston. 

Blanch the almonds and cut in thin slices. Chill 
the peaches, peel, and cut in slices; use one-fifth as 
much in bulk of sliced nuts as sliced peaches. 

FEUIT AND-NUT SALAD. 

Janet McKemie Hill, Boston. 

Peel neatly three oranges and slice them lengthwise; 
also cut three bananas in thin slices. Skin and seed 
half a pound of white grapes, and blanch and slice the 
meats of one-fourth a pound of English walnuts. Serve 
very cold on lettuce leaves, dressed with four table- 
spoonfuls of oil, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice — 
less, if the oranges are sour — and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Serve with French dressing, or with mayon- 
naise made white with whipped cream. Garnish the 
edge with delicate lettuce leaves and serve at once. 



240 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

NKW SALADS. 
Miss Orenier, New York. 

The salad course is entirely new, and just the thing 
for a spring luncheon. Make lemon jelly, rather stiflfer 
than usual, and fill small moulds or jelly-glasses. When 
firm turn out carefully on lettuce and remove the 
inside with a warm teaspoon. Fill these cups with 
white grapes cut in halves and seeded, and. lay some 
about the cup. Make mayonnaise as stiff as possible, 
and beat into it enough whipped cream to reduce it to 
the usual consistency, and put a spoonful of this by 
each mould. 

While the cherries are here, try this salad. Using 
large black cherries, remove the stones and substitute 
hazel nuts. Arrange on chilled lettuce leaves and serve 
with a French dressing, in which lemon juice and not 
vinegar has been used. 

CANTALOUPE SALAD. 

Miss Orenicr, New York. 
Here is a delightful way of serving canteloupe. 
Select small, firm melons and lay on ice until very cold. 
Cut in half and scoop out the seeds, ^ then with a thin 
sharp knife remove the melon from the rind. Cut the 
pulp into inch pieces, mix with bits of ice, and put back 
in the shells, pouring over all French dressing. Ar- 
range the melon halves on grape leaves. 

ALUGATOR PEAR SALAD. 

Miss Orenier, New York. 

A delicious salad for hot weather is made with 
avocadoes, or alligator pears. Keep the fruit on ioe 
until the last moment, as the salad should be very cold. 



SALADS. 241 

Cut the pears in two lengthwise^ and remove the 
centres, filling the cavity with a dressing made with 
olive oil, lemon juice, a dash of onion, salt and cayenne. 
Serve in a deep dish on a foundation of shaved ice 
and a few lettuce hearts. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD. 

Miss Rita Oray, New York, 

Wash pears thoroughly, cut into squares or length- 
wise pieces, mix with French or mayonnaise dressing 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Cut pears in half lengthwise, scoop out the inside. 
Take half of pear which was taken from the inside and 
the same quantity of celery, cut in small pieces, and 
mix with mayonnaise dressing. Place this in the pear 
shell, adding chopped pecan nuts. Serve on lettuce 
leaves and sprinkle top with chopped pecan nuts. 



SAUCES. 



CHAPTER XIV 

All recipes without name accompanying them have been 
thoroughly tested. 

HOBSERADISH SAUOE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Mix together two tablespoonfuls of soft white crumbs 
of bread, and two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. 
Cover them with cream or milk, and let soak for two 
hours. Then rub them through a sieve^ and add one- 
quarter teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Enough milk 
should be used to give it the consistency of cream. This 
sauce will keep in a cool place for several days. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Into a cupful of drawn butter beat a great spoonful 
of grated horseradish wet with lemon juice, and work 
to creamy whiteness. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Beat a tablespoonful of anchovy paste into a cupful 
of drawn butter, adding the juice of half a lemon and a 
dash of cayenne or paprika. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Peel and slice a quart of tomatoes; cook twenty min- 
utes and strain through a coarse bag into a saucepan. 



2U KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Season with a teaspoonful of onion juice^ one of sugar^ 
a little salt and pepper, and when it boils stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter cooked to a roux with one of flour. 
Simmer two minutes and serve. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

Mrs, W. F. Toffey. 
One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
quarter cup of cream or milk, four tablespoonfuls wine. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually; 
when light and creamy, add the wine and then the 
cream, a little at a time. AMien all is smooth place the 
bowl in a basin of hot water for a minute or two, stir- 
ring constantly. (Do not leave it in the hot water long 
enough to melt the sugar.) 

CBEAM SAUCE. 

Miss Gladys Linn. 
Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, let this 
come to a boil ; then add two cups milk or cream, and 
salt, pepper and celery salt to tasle and stir until thick- 
ens. For creamed oysters, let the oysters come to a boil 
in their own juice and then strain and serve with the 
cream sauce. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE FOB CROQUETTES. 

Mrs, Howes, Roselle, N. J. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, four tablespoonfuls 
flour, one cup milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful pepper. Put butter into pan; when melt- 
ed stir in flour, add the salt and pepper then the milk 
cold, pouring in slowly, stir until thick. Croquettes: 
Two cups meat or fish, one cup sauce, one egg. Add the 
sauce to meat, rub in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 



SAUCES. 245 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Mrs. Elmore 8. Forbes, 
One tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one-half pint of cream or rich milk or white stock. 
Stir the butter and flour together, with a little salt, over 
the fire until the butter melts and then stir in gradually 
the cream or stock. Keep stirring constantly and if it 
becomes too thick more cream may be added. Boil about 
five minutes. 

SAUCE POULETTE. 

Mrs. E. P. Forbes. 
The same as cream sauce, except that in place of 
cream or stock use equal parts of water and white wine. 

MINT SxVUCE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Chop six sprays of mint very fine, and add to half a 
cupful of vinegar in which have been dissolved two 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar and a dash of pepper. 

Serve cold with roast lamb. 

MINT SAUCE. 
Mrs. Woodhull Condict. 
Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint, one 
tablespoonful of granulated sugar, and a quarter of 
8 pint of vinegar. Pick and wash the green mint very 
clean, and chop it fine ; mix the sugar in a sauce-tureen ; 
put in the mint and let it stand. 

ONION OR SOUBISE SAUCE. 

Mrs. F. JD. Gray. 
Boil two onions of fair size in two waters and until 
soft all through ; mince and mix with a cupful of drawn 
butter. Season with pepper and salt, beat to a cream 
over the fire, and when very hot, serve. 



246 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BUSSUN SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir and cook for three minutes without 
browning. Gradually add one pint of veal stock and 
stir until smoothly thickened, then stand over hot water. 
Just before serving add the juice of a half lemon and 
four tablespoonfuls of freshly grated horseradish, mixed 
with one tablespoonful of melted butter. Season with 
salt and pepper, take from the Are, pour a portion on 
the platter, arrange the broiled meat on it and garnish. 
Serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 

DRAWN BUTTEB ("WHITB SAUCE.") 

Marion Harland. 

Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan. 
When it bubbles put in (all at once) two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and stir from the sides towards the center of 
the pan until the ingredients are well mixed. Have 
ready-heated a cupful of milk, add to this the "roux'* 
gradually, and beat to a smooth cream. Season with 
white pepper and salt, and, if you like, a little onion 
juice. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Marion Harland. 

Mix together three ounces of butter, two ounces of 
flour, a little nutmeg, and salt, and pepper. Do not melt 
the butter. Add one pint of boiling water, and stir with 
whip to get sauce smooth. Then boil for a moment. 
Stir in the yolks of two eggs, four ounces butter, ana a 
little lemon juice. Press through a wet cloth and add 
two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 



SAUCES. 247 

EGG 8AU0E. 

Make as above^ beating the yolks of two raw eggs into 
the thickened milk and if for fish, adding the yolk and 
white of a hard-boiled egg chopped fine, also a little 
minced parsley. 

BEABNAISE SAUCE. 

Mrs, Seeley's Cook Book. 
Mix one gill of vinegar and two ounces of finely 
chopped shallots. Put in a covered saucepan and cook 
until the vinegar is almost all reduced. Set it away 
until cold, then stir in the yolks of four raw eggs, and 
season with salt and white pepper. Cook over a slow 
fire, stirring all the time, and gradually adding one and 
one-half ounces of clarified butter and the same qfuanti- 
ty of olive oil. All butter may be used. Stir mixture 
with wire whisk. Strain through a cloth, stir in some 
finely chopped tarragon and parsley, and serve hot. 
This sauce should be as thick as a mayonnaise dressing. 

BEGHAHEL SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seekfs Cook Book. 
Take two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour 
mixed together over tlie fire. Do not let it brown. Add 
one quart of milk, a little salt, white pepper, grated nut- 
meg, and one bay-leaf. Boil, stirring constantly for ten 
minutes. Then add four ounces of butter and one pinch 
of sugar. Mix thoroughly and strain through a wet 
cloth. 

BIOARADE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seelefs Cook Book. 
Cover the carcasses of two or more roasted ducks with 
water, season to taste. Boil until it is of a strong flavor. 



248 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Then strain, clarify, and reduce to a demiglaze. To this 
add one small cup of thick Espagnole sauce, the juice of 
one orange, and the rind of two others entirely free 
from the white pith. Cut the rind into small diamond 
shapes and blanch them in boiling water for three min- 
utes before adding to the sauce. Boil all together for 
five minutes in a double boiler. 

8AUCB HOLLANDAISE. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forbes. 
Place the yolk of one egg, a tablespoonful of butter 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice in a double boiler. 
Stir until the butter melts, when add another table- 
spoonful of butter. Season with salt, cayenne pepper 
and a little nutmeg. Stir constantly and as the sauce 
thickens add more butter. A little broth added when 
the first butter melts keeps the sauce from being too 
thick. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCB. 

Mrs. W. P. WaUon. 
Beat half a teacup of butter to a cream, add yolks of 
two eggs, one by one, juice of half a lemon, a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, quarter of teaspoonful of salt. Cook 
this in a saucepan of boiling water, beat with an egg 
beater until it begins to thicken, add a half cup of 
boiling water. When like soft custard it; is done. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUOE. 

Mrs. Oarret Van Home: 

One-half cup butter, one saltspoon salt, yolks of two 

eggs, dash of cayenne, piece of one-half lemon, one-haU 

cup boiling water. Bub butter to a cream, add yolks one 

at a time and beat well, add lemon juice, salt and pep- 



SAUCES. 249 



per. About five minutes before serving add boiling 
water. Place bowl in a saucepan of boiling water and 
stir until it thickens like boiled custard. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Mrs. G, K. Dickinson. 
Cream a quarter of a pound of butter; add yolks of 
three eggs; beat well together; add the juice of half a 
lemon and a small saltspoonful of cayenne; stir u&til 
smooth and creamy. 

PEA SAUCE. 

Mrs. Wm. BrinJcerhoff. • 
One cup green peas, one cup milk or cream, one table- 
spoon of flour, salt and pepper. Mix flour and butter 
over fire, pour in milk, stir imtil boiling, then add pep- 
per, salt and peas. Serve very hot, having peas in cen- 
ter of dish. 

MAITBE d'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 
Cream an ounce of butter and stir into it a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley and a little nutmeg. Serve hot. 

MAITRE d'iIOTEL SAUCE. 

Marion Harland. 
Thicken a couple of ounces of butter with a small 
tablespoon of flour, stirring it over a gentle fire for ten 
or fifteen minutes. Then pour to it in small portions 
half a pint of rich veal broth or gravy, mixing the whole 
well as it is added and letting it boil up between each 
portion, for unless this is done the butter is apt to float 
on the surface. Simmer the sauce for a few minutes, 
then add salt, a dash of cayenne, three teaspoons of 
minced parsley, and the juice of a small lemon. 



250 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SAUCE FOR CHOPS. 

Cook two tableBpoonfulfl each of finely chopped 
tongue and mushrooms, with two tablespoonfuls of 
Maderia wine until dry. Then add one cupful of Es- 
pagnole sauce and one-half cup of stewed, strained 
tomatoes. Cook five minutes and serye in separate 
dish or in center of the chop dish. If desired, the 
chops may rest on pieces of fried bread, the same size 
as the chops. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan with one 
finely chopped onion, a small bunch of parsley, and 
one ounce of chopped raw ham. Cook over a slow 
fire until the onion is soft; add one tablespoonful of 
flour, and a tablespoonful of curry powder, mix well. 
Stir in one and one-half pints of white broth. BoU 
fifteen minutes. Bub through a fine sieve, boil again, 
then add a thickening of two egg yolks, two ounces of 
butter. Mix well, without boiling, and serve. 

THE RECIPE OF A CELEBRATED NEW YORK OHEF. 

Mrs. Louise Edge. 
One small bottle blue label tomato catsup, one-half 
small bottle Worcestershire sauce, one and one-fourth 
egg-cup port wine, one and one-fourth egg-cup sherry 
wine, one-fourth pound butter, one-half teaspoon 
currie. Mix and heat thoroughly. 

CAPER SAUOE. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict 
Take two large tablespoonfuls of capers and a little 
vinegar; stir them for some time into a half pint of 
thick melted butter. This sauce is for boiled mutton. 



SAUCES. 251 

GELEBT SAUCE. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict 

Wash a large bunch of celery, and pare it clean; 
cut in pieces, and boil it gently in a small quantity 
of water till it is quite tender; add a little pepper and 
salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Celery 
Sauce is eaten with boiled poultry. 

PBINOE OF WALES SAUOE. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book, 
Place in a mortar and pound thoroughly the yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs, one teaspoonful of finely 
chopped chives, a few capers, one-fourth teaspoon of 
mustard, the yolk of one raw egg. Then add one 
tablespoon of salad oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, pepper and salt to taste. Bub through a sieve. 
It is then ready for use. 

PRINOESS SAUOE. 

Mrs, Seeley's Cook Book, 
Melt one tablespoon of butter in a saucepan and 
add one tablespoonful of flour. When this comes to boil 
add a pint of chicken broth, one bay-leaf, a clove of 
garlic, a sprig of parsley, a head of celery, and one 
tablespoonful of chopped ham. Cook all together for 
ten minutes. Then strain. Add a teaspoon of beef 
ertract and cook a few minutes longer. Then add a 
tablespoon of Madeira wine, salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve very hot. Do not cook after adding wine. 

BBOWN SAUOE. 

Marion Harland, 
Make as you would white, but substitute boiling 
water for the milk, and browned flour for white. Add 



252 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, the juice of one 
lemon, pepper and salt. 

SAUCE TARTARE (NO. 1) 

Marion Harland. 

Make a pint of mayonnaise dressing. Into this beat 
a teaspoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, a teaspoonful, each, of chopped pickle and 
minced capers, a dozen drops of onion juice. Beat for 
a minute, and serve in a sauce-boat. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Tested. 

Boil half an onion, and half a cup of fine white 
bread crumbs in one pint of milk until the desired 
consistency. Eemove the onion without breaking it, 
add one tablespoon of butter, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
and a dash of white pepper. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

{ConirihuUd.) 

To a good white sauce add three tablespoonfuls of 
finely-chopped parsley and a little green fruit coloring 
and let it come to a boil. 

CIDER SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan over the fire one tablesponful of 
butter and when this begins to bubble stir into it one 
tablespoonful of flour; cook for one minute, then add 
slowly one teacupful of highly-seasoned stock; cook 
for ten minutes, add a cupful of cider, and when it 
again comes to a boil, strain and serve. This sauce is 
excellent with boiled ham. 



SAUCES. 253 



GIBLET SAUCE. 

Contributed. 
Boil the giblets until tender. Chop them^ but not 
too fine. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a 
saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add slowly 
a cupful of the water in which the giblets have been 
boiled, and a cup and a half of rich milk. Add to this 
^he chopped giblets and season with salt and pepper. 
Serve in sauce-boat. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

Contributed. 

To a pint of white sauce add a cupful of boiled chopped 
cauliflower. Beheat, and when ready to serve stir in a 
teaspoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. 

RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Pour one-half pint of stock into a saucepan, with 
a small quantity of white wine; chop fine some herbs, 
such as chervil, tarragon, chives and parsley, or what- 
ever in season, making about three tablespoons in all, 
and mix them gently twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
Mix one tablespoon of flour with one tablespoon of 
batter, then stir this into the sauce and continue 
slirring them by the edge of the fire until thick. 
Squeeze a small quantity of lemon juice into the 
sauce and serve it. 

BEMOULADE SAUCE. 

Oscar, Waldorf-Astoria. 

Mix together in a basin two tablespoons each of 
chopped anchovies, that have been preserved in oil, and 
capers, and add a tablespoon of chopped parsley, one 



254 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

teaspoon of dry mustard and salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix the above ingredients with salad oil and a few 
drops of malt vinegar; one pinch of scraped garlic may 
be added it desired. The sauce is then ready for serv- 
ing. 

ORANBERBT SAUOB. 

Mrs, F. D, Gray. 

Wash and pick over carefully a quart of cranberries. 
Put into the inner vessel of a double boiler, fill the outer 
with boiling water and cook, keeping the cranberries 
closely covered until they are broken to pieces. Rub 
through your vegetable press into a saucepan, sweeten 
abundantly, bring to a boil (barely), and turn into a 
wet mould to form. 

APPLE SAUOB. 

Marion Harland. 

Pare, core and quarter tart apples, dropping into 
cold water as you do this. Put over the fire dripping 
wet and cover closely to keep in the steam. When they 
are heated through, open and stir up from the bottom. 
When soft and broken, rub through colander or vegeta- 
ble press, sweeten to taste while hot and set away to 
cool. Serve with roast pork and roast ducks. 

JELLY SAUOB. 

Marion Harland, 

Make a cupful of a brown sauce of butter, browned 
flour and a little caramel. Heat boiling hot and beat in 
four or five teaspoonfuls of currant or other tart jelly. 

Serve with game, lamb or mutton. 



SAUCES. 255 



ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

Contributed. 
Put four tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan. 
When hot stir into it five tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir 
until very brown. Add two cupfuls of brown stock and 
on tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. Salt and pepper 
to taste. Let the sauce boil well and remove from the 
fire. Serve with chops or steak. 

VENITIENNE SAUCE. 

Mrs. SeeUys Cook Book. 
Prepare a sufficient quantity of brown sauce for 
the purpose required. Just before serving add a good 
spoonful of blanched tarragon leaves, cut into diamond 
shapes^ and a small lump of butter, a spoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar, and, if desired, a little grated nutmeg. 

VELOUTE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seeley*s Cook Book. 
Cover with water one knuckle of veal cut in small 
pieces, some chicken parings or a fowl, and season with 
salt Boil and skim well. Add one carrot cut in quar- 
ters, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, a bunch of 
parsley, two leeks, stalk of celery, and a few peppercorns. 
Cover and boil slowly for two hours. Skim off the fat 
and strain stock through a damp cloth. In another 
saucepan mix three ounces of fiour with two ounces of 
butter, stir, and cook a little without browning. Add 
two quarts of the stock and boil slowly for one-half 
hour. Skim and strain through a napkin. 

VINAIGEBTTB SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seelefs Cook Book. 
Mix half a pint sweet oil, two tablespoons of vine- 
gar, i>epper, salt, and chopped shallots to the taste. 



250 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and a little chopped parsley. Beat well with wire 
whip and serve immediately. 

FISH BAUCE. 

A very delicious sauce to serve with baked fish, and 
one which is not as well known at the every-day 
dinner as it should be, is made as follows: Cream 
half a cupful of butter, working into it as much lemon 
juice as it will take. When it is light and creamy 
beat in three tablespoonfuls of finely chopped, pickled 
walnuts and one tablespoonful of minced parsley. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

Mrs. SeeUys Cook Book. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of butter and one table- 
spoonful of flour, add one cup of cream, and stir 
over the fire until all begins to thicken. Stir in three 
tablespoonfuls of Swiss cheese, a little white pepper, 
and salt. 

PUBEE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Mrs. Seelefs Cook Book. 
Pour boiling water over one quart of chestnuts and 
let them cook for ten minutes. Strain, and remove 
the outside skin. Put them in kettle and boil until 
they are tender. Then rub them through a fine sieve 
and season with one tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful white pepper. 
Mix well until light and creamy. Then add one-half 
cupful of milk or cream. Serve hot. 

CLAM SAUCE. 

Mrs. SeeUys Cook Book. 
Take one quart of freshly opened Little Neck clams, 
half a pint of water, an ounce of butter, and boil five 



SAUCES. 257 

minutes. Mix two ounces of butter, one ounce of 
flour, and a little nutmeg together, and add one-half 
pint of boiling water, and one-lialf pint of clam liquor. 
Stir with egg-beater, boil a minute or two, add two 
egg yolks, twice as much water as egg yolks, and a 
little lemon juice. Strain through a wet cloth. Then 
mix in four ounces of butter, drain the clams, put 
them in the sauce, and serve hot. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Mrs, Seelefs Cook Book, 

After removing the meat from a good-sized boiled 
lobster, boil the shells in one scant quart of water for 
twenty minutes. Strain and use the broth to make 
a cream sauce. Cut the lobster meat in small pieces 
ami powder the dried lobster coral. Stir both into 
the sauce. Add a dash of cayenne and two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice. 

SAUCE FOB CLAMS ( PRICE'S PLEASURE BAY). 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One tablespoonful of corn-starch, one-half table- 
spoonful of celery-salt, one-half tablespoonful of black 
pepper. Mix all in a little cold water. Add one cup 
of boiling hot water — it must be boiling. Add grad- 
ually one cup of best butter. 

A GOOD, DELICIOUS SAUCE FOR ALL KINDS OF PUDDINGS. 

Miss Edge. 

Take the superfluous syrup of the peaches at pre- 
serving time, boil it until it thickens a little, strain, 
?Dd to each quart add half a pint of brandy. Lay 
aside in sealed bottles, and heat when about to use. 



358 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE SAUCE POB COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 
Grate the yellow rind of a large orange, squeeze 
juice and add it to pulp with two tablespoonfuls of 
8ugar. Let boil one cup of milk and a small piece of 
butter, thicken with flour moistened with water or 
milk and take from fire. Stir the orange mixture into 
this, and do not let boil or the sauce will separate. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Mrs, Hamilton Vreeland, 
Let boil one and a half cups of milk, and mix one 
l&rge tablespoonful of cocoa or grated chocolate, 
which has been moistened with hot water or milk, . 
sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Thicken to proper 
consistency. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict. 
Have ready some rich, thick, melted or drawn 
butter, and the moment you take it from the fire stir 
in two wine-glassfuls of wine, two tablespoons of sugar 
and some nutmeg. Serve it with plum pudding or any 
sort of boiled pudding that is made of batter. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Mrs, Hozvland^ Brooklyn. 

Take one cup of powdered sugar, one tablespoon 
of butter. Eub them to a cream and moisten with 
one tablespoon of cream. Beat until very light. Then 
gradually stir in one wine-glass of brandy. Place 
the saucepan in pan of hot water and stir the mix- 
ture until it comes to a boil. Serve hot in a sauce- 
boat. 



SAUCES. 259 

MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Mrs, Howland^ Brooklyn, 

Put in a saucepan the yolks of six eggs^ three ounces 
of granulated sugar^ and one-half pint of Maderia 
wine. Beat the mixture over the fire with an egg- 
beater until it is thick and frothy. Serve hot. 

SAUCE POB PUDDING. 

Mrs, F. D.'Gray, 
Cream together two tablespoonfuls of soft butter 
and^one cupful of sifted powdered sugar, add one cupful 
of rich sweet cream whipped and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Stand over hot water just long enough to 
mnke the mixture creamy without melting the butter. 
Stir constantly. 

CLARET SAUCE. 

Mrs, C, P, Johnson^ Cranford^ N, J, 

Stir together over the fire one cupful of sugar and 
one cupful of hot water. When the sugar is dissolved 
boil without stirring for ten minutes, then set aside 
until cold. Add four tablespoonfuls of good claret 
and stand in a pan of pounded ice. Pour a little over 
each service of the sliced cream. 

SAUCE POR ICE-CREAM. 

Mrs, Frederick Dietz, New York, 

Two cups maple sugar, one cup cream, one-half cup 
pecans ; melt sugar and cream together, add nuts, chop- 
ped fine. Serve hot on vanilla ice-cream. 



260 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

HOT CHOCOUITE FOB ICE-OREAM. 

Mi88 Rita Oray, New York. 

One-half pound of Maillard's chocolate dissolved in 
one-half cup of milk. Boil chocolate and milk in dou- 
ble boiler^ then add yolks of two eggs and one-half cup 
of sugar. 



VEGETABLES. 



CHAPTER XV 

All reclpeB withont name accompanying them have been 
thoroughly tested. 

BOOT VBGBTABLES. 

Rose Brown, London^ England' 
Boot vegetables, such as potatoes, beets, onions^ car- 
rots, parsnips, should be boiled gently with just enough 
water to cover them and with lid oflf. Cabbage, cauli- 
flower, spinach, should be thoroughly washed in several 
waters and put in salted water with stalk upward one 
half-hour before cooking. Green vegetables should be 
boiled in plenty of water without the lid. They must 
never be covered while cooking; they will then retain 
their green color. Soda should never be used in water in 
which vegetables are cooked. One teaspoonful of salt 
added to every gallon of water for cooking vegetables. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE. 

Mrs. Gould's French Chef. 
Boil cauliflower as usual, then separate into sections 
and put in dish and put a layer of grated cheese on top. 
Put in oven to brown. Serve hot with white sauce. 

CAULIFLOWEE. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Soak the cauliflower in salt and water; trim oflf out- 
side leaves, put in a saucepan of boiling water, flower 
downward. Cook gently until skewer will pass through 
stalk. Drain in colander, cut off stalk leaving sufficient 
to hold flower together. Serve with melted butter or 
white sauce. 



262 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BBUSSELS 8PB0UTB. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Wash the sprouts well in salted water, put in boiling 
water in saucepan, with a tablesponful of salt^ keep 
them boiling fast for one-quarter of an hour with lid 
off; strain, return to saucepan, add small piece of but- 
ter, pepper and salt and shake thoroughly over fire. 
Serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Tie in bunches of equal size, scrape stems. Put in 
saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, cook with- 
out lid for thirty minutes. Lift out of water. Serve 
with melted butter or drawn butter or HoUandaise sauce. 

PEAS. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Put in saucepan of boiling water with a lump of 
sugar. Boil very slowly, without lid, for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour. Drain in a colander. Place in 
vegetable dish and mix in a few pieces of butter. 

STRING BEANS. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Wash well, cut off strings from each side. Put in 
saucepan with plenty of boiling water and dessertspoon- 
ful of salt. Boil quickly until tender, drain in colander, 
return to saucepan, pepper and salt and mix in a piece 
of butter. Toss until butter is melted. Serve hot. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Rose Brown, London, England- 
Peel and cut in pieces cucumbers one inch long, put 
in boiling water with a little salt. Simmer for ten min- 



VEGETABLES. 263 

utes. Strain them, add a cream sauce and stew twenty 
minutes. Add a little lemon juice. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Rose Brown, London, England. 

Rub the skins oflE new potatoes with coarse towel. Boil 
gently twenty minutes in boiling water with salt. 

ONIONS. 

Mrs. T. K, Egbert, New Yorh 
Slice white onions, soak in milk one and a half hours, 
then fry in hot lard. 

BBOILED ASPABAQU8. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes- 
Lay a bunch of boiled asparagus evenly on a platter, 
and sprinkle with fine bread crumbs and pieces of but- 
ter. Season with salt and pepper and brown under the 
gas or in a hot oven. 

ASPAKAGUS AU GRATIN. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 
Boil the asparagus and cut off the tips. Fill a casse- 
role with alternate layers of asparagus tip^and fine 
bread crumbs, sprinkled with grated parmisan cheese, a 
very little onion and bits of butter. Have the top layer 
of crumbs and brown in the oven. 

CORN. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 
Corn on cob should never be put in salted water, as 
salt hardens it. Place it in boiling hot water, cooking 
for ten to fifteen minutes or until tender. A teaspoonful 
of sugar added to water in which com is boiled adds to 
flavor. 



264 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Mrs. David Keever, Atlanta, Georgia. 

Twelve large ears of com grated, one quart of milk, 
three eggs^ whites and yolks beaten, four tablespoons 
sugar, one tablespoon flour, a little salt. Bake four hours 
in slow oven. 

CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One dozen ears of corn grated from the cob. Nine 
large square soda crackers rolled fine, one and a half 
cups of milk, little salt, and sugar to your taste. Fry in 
frying pan with butter or lard. ((Jood.) 

CORN PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. Cornell, Bayside, L. I. 

Pass the com over a grater so as to cut the kernels. 
Then take the back of a knife and press out the corn. 
It takes from eight to ten ears for a pudding. Put a 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, some salt and 
pepper to taste, and half a cup of cream. Put in oven 
until the top is a light brown and serve. 

SWEET CORN. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn, 

Husk the corn, removing all the silk; put into boiling 
water about six or eight minutes, if the corn is young; 
if the corn is old, a little longer. Then throw the com 
into ice cold water and leave for a few minutes as this 
blanches it ; with a sharp-pointed knife, cut through the 
center of the kernel, and with the back of the knife press 
out the com. To prepare for dinner, cook in a double 
boiler and let it boil for about ten or fifteen minutes. 



VEGETABLES. 265 

Eemove from fire and season with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

CORN FRITTERS ( PRICE'S PLEASURE BAY). 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New r'orifc. 

One can sweet com (in summer cut from cob a can of 
com), four eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, flour enough to thicken for frying, a little 
salt, one teaspoon baking powder. Mix all together ; fry 
in very little lard. 

CORN AU GRATIN. 

Miss J. Orenier, New York. 

A can of grated corn is the basis of the vegetable 
served "au gratin," or ordinary canned com may be 
chopped fine and used instead. Butter a baking-dish, 
put in a layer of corn, dot it with butter, salt and black 
pepper, put on more corn, and seasoning, and so on 
till the dish is full ; then cover with sifted bread crumbs 
and melted butter, and brown in the oven. 

BAKED CORN IN PEPPER CASES. 

Cut from the cob sufficient boiled com to measure 
one pint. Scald six or eight bull-nose peppers for five 
minutes, rub off the skin, cut off the stem end and scrape 
out all the seeds. Make a good cream sauce with one 
tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
cupful of thin cream and one-half of a teaspoonful of 
salt. Fill the pepper shells with the mixed com and 
sauce, place close together in a baking-dish and bake in 
a hot oven for half an hour. 

CORN IN TOMATO CUPS. 

Com which is too old for serving on the cob is cut 
raw, seasoned, a tablespoonful of butter added to eaeh 



266 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

pint and packed in tomatoes from which the centres 
have been scooped out. These are baked in a quick 
oven for half an hour. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Mrs, John Atkinson, 

Use one quart of Lima beans^ six ears of com cut from 
cob and juice of corn scraped from cob. Put Lima beans 
in boiling water, cook until partially tender, then add 
corn. Season with salt and pepper and a piece of but- 
ter size of a walnut. Add one-fourth of a cup of milk 
if desired. Butter may be left out and small pieces of 
salt pork used when beans are beginning to cook. 

FRENCH ARTICHOKES. 

Mrs, Charles A, Oould, New York, 

Wash artichokes in cold water. Trim top, also bot- 
tom of vegetable so it will stand erect when served. 
Stand them in cold water for two hours in which there 
is a little lemon juice and slices of lemon. Put them in 
hot salted water and boil for twenty minutes. Serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

ONIONS AU GRATIN. 

Mrs. Elmer 8. Forb$8. 

Cut Bermuda or any large onions of delicate flavor 
in thick slices, parboiling the slices in salted water. 
Arrange in a casserole in layers with plenty of bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper and bits of butter. With the top 
layer of bread crumbs mix a quantity of grated clieese 
and brown in the oven. The onions may be used whole 
if preferred. 



VEGETABLES. 267 



STUFFED ONIONS, CREAMED. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book, 

Boil eight large onions gently until quite tender^ but 
not broken. Drain, and when cold, carefully remove the 
hearts or centers. Chop three of these hearts fine and 
mix with them a cupful of minced ham and season to 
taste. Moisten with rich cream and the beaten yolk of 
an egg. Fill the centers of the onions with the mixture^ 
put a piece of butter in the top of each, set side by side, 
in a deep dish, pour a little milk about them and bake, 
covered, for twenty minutes. Then uncover, sprinkle 
with buttered crumbs and bake ten minutes longer. 
Serve hot. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Marion Harland- 

Cook tender in boiling water, changed once after fif- 
teen minutes; drain and arrange, side by side, in a 
baking pan. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a cupful 
of hot soup stock, season with salt and pepper and pour 
over the onions. Cook in a hot oven until the onions 
are brown, when they may be lifted with a perforated 
spoon and put into the dish in which they are to be 
served. Put the pan of grav}' on top of the range, thick- 
en the contents with browned flour and pour over the 
onions. Serve very hot. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Marion Harland. 

Peel and lay for an hour in cold water. Boil in two 
waters until tender. Drain, sprinkle with pepper and 
salt; put into deep vegetable-dish and pour over them 
a great spoonful of melted butter. 



268 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SARATOGA ONIONS* 

Table TcUh 

Peel and thinly slice three large white onions and soak 
in milk for ten minutes, then drain and dry on a towel. 
Seperate the slices into rings, put a dozen or more at 
a time in a frying-basket and plunge into smoking- 
hot fat. Take out as soon as delicately colored, drain 
for a moment on unglazed paper, turn into a heated 
dish, dust lightly with salt and serve at once. 

HENRY WARD BEECHER's RECIPE FOR COOKING TOMATOES. 

Very good. 

Put to parboil three small onions ; while this is being 
done cut up three pints of ripe tomatoes; add the 
onions cut fine, a cupful and a half of bread crumbs, 
a dessertspoonful of salt and a small teaspoonful of 
black pepper ; stir together and simmer at least an hour, 
the longer the better ; just before they are to be served, 
stir in six well beaten eggs, separate the whites and 
yolks, and four tablespoonfuls of butter, and boil up 
once to cook the eggs. Mr. Beecher quaintly adds: 
"When so prepared, no directions will be needed as to 
how to eat them." 

MAMMY LU'S ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. H. J. Pratt. 

One quart tomatoes cut in cubes, or same quantity 
of canned tomatoes. Three tablespoons sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste, bread spread thickly with butter and 
cut in dice to cover. Bake until nicely browned in 
dish not over two inches deep. 



VEGETABLES. 269 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Mrs. E, L. MacBumey, 

One quart of tomatoes, two small onions, six eggs, 
one tablespoonful butter, salt and pepper. 

Chop onions fine, fry in butter, add the tomatoes, 
which have been thoroughly cooked. Just before serv- 
ing, add well beaten eggs, let come to boiling point 
and serve on toast or crackers. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Miss Rita Oray, New York, 
Take one quart of tomatoes, cut them in two, put 
them in a pan with a large lump of butter and let them 
cook for one-half hour, then turn them and cook one- 
half hour on the other side. Put the skin up when put- 
ting them in pan. After they have cooked an hour 

add a bowl of milk, with a teaspoonful of sugar and a 
little salt and a tablespoonful of flour. Cook thor- 
oughly and take off. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Peel, slice and put a quart of tomatoes over the fire 
in a nickel-steel-plated or agate saucepan — never in tin. 
Stew fast twenty minutes. Season with a lump of 
butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste, and two teaspoonfuls of onion juice. 
Stew five minutes longer, and serve. 

Some cooks substitute fine dry crumbs for the flour. 
Unless some thickening is used, the tomatoes will be 
watery and thin. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Marion Harland. 
For stuffing, tomatoes should be firm and of good 
size. Cut a piece from the stem end of each, and with a 



270 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

teaspoon scoop out the centers. Many left-overs^ sucb 
as chopped cold meats^ cereals, macaroni or bread 
crumbs, may be used for stuflSng. Whatever the mix- 
ture used, season highly with salt and pepper and onion 
juice or chopped parsley and enrich with melted but- 
ter. When filled, the tomato may be placed in a bak- 
ing dish or in baking cups, and bake in a hot oven. 
Also the tomatoes may be stuffed, baked in cocottes, and 
each finished after baking by the addition of a poached 
egg. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH COBN 

Table Talk, 
Select large, firm tomatoes, cut off the tops and scoop 
out the inside pulp. Place them in the bake-dish and 
fill them with a mixture of a cupful of grated green 
corn, half a cupful of bread crumbs, a tablespoonful 
each of milk and butter, a teaspoonful of white sugar, 
and salt and pepper to taste. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH RICE. 

Table Talk. 
Fill tomato shells prepared as above directed with 
cold boiled rice, to which have been added two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, salt and paprika. When the shells are filled strew 
the contents of each thickly with grated cheese before 
laying on the tops. Bake, covered, half an hour. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH MACARONI. 

Table Talk. 
Prepare as in last recipe, substituing cold boiled 
macaroni, chopped, for the rice, and mixing cheese 
with the filling, besides strewing it on the top. 



VEGETABLES. 271 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
Wash and wipe tomatoes. With a very sharp knife 
cut them in half and lay, skin side down, upon a but- 
tered broiler. Cook over a clear fire until done ; arrange 
squares of toast on a hot platter and lay the broiled 
tomatoes on this toast — half a tomato to each slice. 
Handle carefully that they may not break. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt and pour melted butter over all. 

GRILLED TOMATOES. 

Miss Rita Oray, New York. 
Cut large, firm tomatoes into thick slices. Do not 
peel. Rub an oyster broiler lightly with butter, lay on 
it the slices of tomato and broil over a clear fire. Have 
ready a sauce made by working a teaspoonful, each, of 
minced parsley and of lemon juice into two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Sprinkle the tomatoes with pepper and 
salt, put the sauce on them, let them stand covered in 
the open oven or plate-warmer for a couple of minutes, 
or until the butter is melted, and serve. 

BROILED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Gould's Cook. 
Cut the unpeeled tomatoes into half-inch slices and 
lay in sweet oil for five minutes. Transfer the slices 
carefully to a fine wire broiler and cook to a delicate 
brown. When done, sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay 
on slices of crisp toast and pour a white sauce over and 
around all. 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Gould's Cook. 
Wipe green tomatoes with a damp cloth, cut them 
into slices half an inch thick, dip in beaten egg and 



272 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

cracker crumbs, set in the ice-chest for half an hour and 
then fry in butter to a delicate brown. Drain from 
grease and serve on a hot platter. 

POTATOES. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
Potatoes for baking or boiling whole should be of the 
same size, thoroughly washed and scrubbed with a brush 
kept for the purpose. They should bake in a hot oven 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, according to their 
size, and to boil have enough boiling salted water to 
cover them, and boil about thirty minutes. Pare be- 
fore boiling, except for salad. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes. Wash, using 
a vegetable brush, and place in a dripping pan. Bake 
in hot oven forty minutes, or until soft; remove from 
oven and serve at once. If allowed to stand, unless the 
skin is ruptured for escape of steam, they become soggy. 
Properly baked potatoes are more easily digested than 
potatoes cooked in any other way, as some of the starch 
is changed to dextrin by the intense heat. They are 
better cooked in boiling water than baked in a slow oven. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of imiform size. Wash, pare and drop 
at once in cold water to prevent discoloration ; soak one- 
half hour in the fall, and one to two hours in winter 
and spring. Cook in boiling salted water until soft, 
which is easily determined by piercing with a skewer. 
For seven potatoes allow a tablespoon of salt, and boil- 
ing watet to cover. Drain from water, and keep un- 
covered in warm place imtil serving time. Avoid send- 



VEGETABLES. 273 

ing to table in a covered vegetable dish. In boiling large 
potatoes, it often happens that outside is soft, while 
center is underdone. To finish cooking without pota- 
toes breaking apart, add one pint cold water, which 
drives heat to center, thus accomplishing the cooking. 

NUT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Tahle Talk. 

Coarsely chop sufficient black walnut meats to mea- 
sure one cupful. Mix them with one cupful of mashed 
and seasoned potatoes and one cupful of soft bread 
crumbs. Stir in two well beaten eggs. Add a high 
seasoning of salt, pepper and onion juice, a few drops 
of lemon juice, and three tablespoonfuls of beef stock. 
When cold mould into croquettes, dip each into beaten 
egg, roll in fine crumbs, and fry in deep smoking-hot 
fat. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Marion Harland, 

Bake eight large potatoes until done. Cut off the 
tops with a sharp knife and scoop out the insides with a 
small spooii. Set aside the skins for future use. With 
the back of a spoon mash the potatoes smoth, rub into 
them two tablespoonfuls of butter, a gill of cream, two 

teaspoonfuls of finely minced onion, a teaspoonful of 
minced parsley and salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
When you have worked these ingredients to a smooth 
mass, beat in the stiffened whites of two eggs. Pill the 
empty potato skins with this creamy mixture, heap- 
ing it high. Stand the potato cases on end, side by 
side, in a baking-pan and set in the oven until the 
lX)tato protruding from the tops is a delicate brown. 



274 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

MILANAISE POTATOES. 

Mrs. C, P, CongdoUy Chicago, 
Pare and boil as many potatoes as desired. When 
done press through a rieer into a heated bowl and whip 
with a fork, adding, little by little, enough boiling hot 
chicken stock to make them creamy. Season with salt 
and white pepper, then add as much whipped cream as 
will bring them to such consistence that they can be 
slowly beaten with a Dover egg beater. Beat for full 
five minutes, heap them in a buttered baking dish, sprin- 
kle with grated Parmesan cheese and brown lightly in 
a very hot oven. Send directly to the table. 

POTATOES ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Marion Harland. 
Bake large smooth potatoes, and cut each carefully 
in half lengthwise. Scrape out the insides, leaving 
the skins whole. Beat what you have taken out to a 
cream with melted butter, cream or milk, season with 
pepper and salt, and fill the "shells,'' rounding the 
potato on top. Put a dot of butter upon each and 
brown lightly upon the upper grating of your oven. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 
Marion Harland. 
Peel potatoes, cut into strips, and lay in ice water 
for at least an hour. Drain and pat dry between the 
folds of a clean dish-towel that should absorb every 
drop of moisture. Have ready a kettle of deep fat, 
heated gradually until it is boiling hot. Test this 
by dropping in a bit of the potato. It should rise 
to the top and brown immediately. Put in the 
potatoes, fry to a golden brown, drain, first in a hot 



VEGETABLES. 275 



colander^ then shake in heated tissue paper before 
transferring to a hot dish^ lined with a napkin. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Marion Harland. 
Peel the potatoes, and proceed as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe when you have cut them into slices as 
thin as shavings. 

POTATO RIBBONS.. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book, 
Peel tlie potatoes, then peel roimd and round very 
thinly. Let the ribbons lie in cold water for an hour. 
Drain and plunge in hot fat, using a frying basket. 
Drain off the fat on paper and serve hot. 

HASHED OREAMED POTATO CR0QUETT3. 

Mrs. John J. Toifey. 
Chop cold boiled potatoes very fine, make a rich 
cream sauce, add potatoes, stir well, season with salt 
and pepper, then the white of an egg, cool, form, 
roll in dried bread crumbs and egg. Fry in basket in 
hot lard. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
Add to the boiled and mashed |X)tatoe8 half their 
weight of butter, and seasoning of salt and pepper, a 
trifle of onion, minced fine, and two well beaten eggs. 
Form them in egg, ball, or cork shape ; dip them in the 
beaten yolk of eggs and then into bread crumbs. Cover 
them, and let them stand for an hour or so. Dip 
them again in the egg and bread crumbs, and fry 
in deep hot fat. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 
Let them drain a moment before serving. 



276 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POGKBXS OF GOLD. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
Prepare the potatoes as for croqquettes in the re- 
ceipt given above. Scoop out the center of each cro- 
quette and fill in with this salpicon: Mince cooked 
chicken, not too fine, but rather in dice size. Heat it 
with butter and add cooked mushroom dice and cooked 
pickled tongue dice, with salt and pepper for a flavor- 
ing. Thicken this salpicon with the yolk of egg in 
which has been stirred a dash af sugar, a few drops 
of lemon juice, and of some aromatic wine. After you 
have packed the salpicon in the potato ball, press a 
little of the potato over the opening. Dip the ball in the 
beaten yolk of egg, then into bread cmmbs, and fry in 
deep hot fat. Drain them on paper and serve iliem 
hot. 

FRIED POTATO HASH. 

Marion Harland. 
Chop cold boiled potatoes, season with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Have two tablespoonfuls of good 
drippings, hissing hot, in a frying-pan; put in the po- 
tatoes and pat smooth. Cook slowly, turning the fry- 
ing-pan occasionally that they may brown evenly on the 
bottom. In about twenty minutes they should be nicely 
colored and crusted into a thick sheet. Beverse careful- 
ly upon a hot platter. 

HASHED AND BROWNED POTATOES. 

Marion Harland. 
Pare, cut very small and evenly, and put into a sauce- 
pan with a finely minced onion and a stalk of celery 
chopped into tiny bits. Cover with salted boiling water 
and cook tender. Drain oif the water, supplying its 



VEGETABLES. 277 



place with inilk^ heated with a pinch of soda. Bring to 
a bubble and stir in a large tablespoonful of butter, 
rubbed to a cream with one of flour. Pepper, salt, mix 
well — ^but taking care not to break the potatoes — take 
from the fire, stir and toss for a moment, then turn all 
into a greased pudding dish, sprinkle crumbs on the top 
and brown in a gopd oven. 

POTATOES PARISIENNE. 

Marion Harland, 
Parisienne potatoes are cut into small balls from raw 
potatoes with a French vegetable cutter or a round 
spoon. They may be either fried, or boiled and served 
with ma!tre dlidtel sauce. 

POTATO OMELET. 

Marion Harland. 
Make an omelet in the usual way; have ready by the 
time it is done, and lay upon it, this mixture, then fold 
down : Cook one small minced onion in one tablespoon- 
ful of dripping until yellow, add one cupful of cold 
boiled potatoes, chopped fine, and cook until slightly 
colored, stirring frequently. Shake into it a little pep- 
per and salt and one teaspoonful of finely minced pars- 
ley. Set into the oven to keep warm until the omelet 
is ready. 

CRBAM POTATOES WITH GREEN PEPPERS. 

Boss Fenton Farm. 
Cut potatoes in dice and parboil in salted water, (or 
cold potatoes may be used). Make a cream sauce and 
mix with potatoes. Bemove all seeds from two green 
peppers, scald them, cut in dice, place with potatoes on 
stove, season with salt. Simmer for ten minutes or until 
peppers are tender. Do not allow potatoes to break. 



278 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



SOUFFLE POMME DE TERRE. 

Mrs, Oould's French Chef. 
Cut potatoes in pieces to fry. Put in a doth and 
shake well to dry them. Never 'put potatoes to fry 
in any water. Fry in hot fat but not boiling, until 
nearly done, take out, drain in colander. Let fat come 
to a boil, put them into the fat again for a few minutes 
until done, (this will make them puff up), salt and 
serve. 

LT0NNAI8E POTATOES. 

Miss Charlotte L. Appleton, Bayside, L. I. 
Chop fine three cups of cold potatoes, and put in 
frying-pan with two tablespoons of butter and one of 
minced onions. Cook slowly twenty minutes, without 
browning. Add one tablespoonful, each, of parsley and 
vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. L. Brown, Hempstead, L. I. 
Boil a dozen potatoes and, while hot, mash soft with 
hot milk and melted butter, adding salt and white pepper 
to taste. Whip light and heap in the center of a fire- 
proof platter. Smooth the sides of the mound' with a 
knife and carefully remove about a cupful of potato 
from the center of the mound, leaving a cavity in its 
place. Dip a feather or brush in the beaten white of 
an egg and wash the inside of the hollow and the top 
and sides of the mound with this. Now set in the oven 
to get very hot, and to brown lightly. When done 
draw to the door of the oven and fill the hollow with 
cheese sauce. Sprinkle the potatoes and cheese with 
crumbs and return to the oven for five minutes before 
sending to the table. 



VEGETABLES. 279 



POTATOES AND CORN. 

Mrs, 0, F. McDowell. 
Cut the kernels from six ears of boiled corn. Cut 
eight cold boiled potatoes into small dice of uniform 
size. Put into a frying-pan a tablespoonful of butter 
and turn the potatoes* and corn into this; salt and 
pepper. Fry, tossing and stirring constantly, for ten 
minutes. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book, 
Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and cook 
twenty minutes in boiling salted water to cover. Many 
boil sweet potatoes with the skins on. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

To two cups need sweet potatoes, add three table- 
spoons butter, one-half teaspoon salt, and hot milk to 
moisten. Beat until light, and pile on a vegetable dish. 

SWEET POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Cut five medium-sized cold boiled sweet potatoes in 
one-third inch slices. Put a layer in buttered baking 
dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper and three tablespoons 
brown sugar, dot over with one tablespoon butter. Re- 
peat, cover with buttered cracker crumbs, and bake un- 
til the crumbs are brown. 

SWEET POTATOES EN BROCHETTE. 

Wash and pare potatoes, and cut in one-third inch 
slices. Arrange on skewers in groups of three or four, 
parboil six minutes and drain. Brush over with melted 
butter, sprinkle with brown sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven until well browned. 



280 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS. 

To two cups hot riced sweet potatoes, add three table- 
spoons butter, one-half teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, 
and one beaten egg. Shape in small balls, roll in flour, 
fry in deep fat, and drain. If potatoes are very dry, it 
will be necessary to add hot milk to moisten. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Marion Harland, 
Into two cupfuls of boiled and mashed sweet pota- 
toes beat a tablespoonful of butter, and stir in a sauce- 
pan over the fire until smoking hot. Now remove and 
add a tablespoonful of cream and tlie yolks of two 
eggs. When cold, form into croquettes and roll each 
croquette in beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Arrange 
all on a platter and set in a cold place for several hours 
before frying in hot fat to a golden brown. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Mrs. Oeorge T. Smith. 
Boil sweet potatoes in their skins; when cooked re- 
move skins, and spread butter over the potatoes. Sprinkle 
a little sugar on top. Place in oven until brown. Serve. 

SWEET POTATOES AND PEPPERS. 

Mrs. Elmer S. Forbes. 
Slice cold boiled sweet potatoes very thin and lay 
on flat baking dish. Sprinkle with thin strips of red 
peppers and small pieces of butter. Gamsh top layer 
with the peppers and brown in the oven. 

PARSNIP CROQUETTES. 

Mrs, E. A. Hammond^ 
Wash parsnip and cook forty-five minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, plunge into cold water, when skins 



VEGETABLES. 281 

will be found to slip off easily. Mash, season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper, shape in small flat round balls, 
roll in flour and saute in butter. 

PEAS WITH ONIONS, TO SEBVE WITH PIGEON, OB SMALL 
GAME, OB ALONE. 

Mrs. Gould's French Chef, 
Put peas in saucepan with some butter, with just a 
little hot water and small onions at same time; add a 
little sugar if necessary, cover with a soup plate filled 
with hot water. Cook slowly for one and a half hours. 
Serve on a hot plate. 

PEAS AND OABBOTS- 

Mrs. Elwood. 
One can of French peas, or two quarts of boiled 
green peas. Two bunches of very yoimg carrots. Boil 
and slice the carrots very thin, then stir into a rich 
cream sauce. Pile the peas in the center of a platter, 
and place a ring of the creamed carrots around them. 

SPINACH. 

Tested. 
Like all greens, spinach should be thoroughly 
looked over, washed, then blanched. Cut off the 
stalks and after looking over the leaves put into a large 
pan of cold water. Plunge them up and down to re- 
move the sand, then lift the leaves out into a second 
pan of water. Do not attempt to drain the water off, 
as that leaves the sediment which has sunk to the 
bottom. Binse yet a third time, and cook in a little 
boiling salted water for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Drain off, cover with cold water, and when cold drain 



232 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

again. Put the leaves into a chopping bowl and cut 
fine. Have ready in a fryingpan a tablespoonful of 
hot butter, add the spinach, season with salt and pepper. 
Heat thorouglily and serve on a hot dish surrounded 
by toast— WAa^ to Eat 

CHICORY OB SPINACH. 

Mrs. Gould's French Chef- 
Wash thoroughly, and soak the chicory in cold water 
about an hour. Throw into boiling water with salt; 
boil chicory one and a half hours, and spinach twenty 
minutes. When chicory is boiled, put in colander and 
drain, then put under cold water facet, let the water 
run over it Aoroughly (not the spinach), then put in 
a saucepan on the fire to dry off ttie water thoroughly, 
add a piece of butter, pepper and salt. Mix well, then 
add cream with teaspoon of flour mixed with it, and if 
possible, let it cook with the chicory, or spinach one 
hour. If any is left next day, warm and serve with 
fried eggs placed on top of it, for luncheon. 

TO BOIL SPINACH. 

** Oood Housekeeping.^^ 
Pick over the spinach, removing all roots and yellow 
or decayed leaves. Wash carefully through a number 
of waters for, owing to its low habit of growth, it is 
apt to be very dirty and sandy. Drain when thoroughly 
cleaned and throw into a kettle of boiling water to which 
a tablespoonful of salt has been added. Boil without 
covering for from fifteen to twenty minutes according 
to its condition, then drain; throw into a pan of cold 
water and let stand for ten minutes. Drain again 
very thoroughly, pressing out every drop of water. The 
spinach is now ready to be used in any way. It is to 



VEGETABLES. 283 



be remembered that in the process of cooking it de- 
creases materially in quantity, usually to about one- 
quarter of its first bulk. 

BUTTERED SPINACH. 

Wash and cook the spinach as just directed. Chop 
very fine. For a quart of the cooked spinach, melt 
and mix in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. To this 
add the spinach and stir over a moderate heat until very 
hot through. Dish, garnishing with sliced hard boiled 
eggs and toast points. 

OEEAMED SPINACH. 

Wash, cook, drain and chop fine a half peck of 
spinach. In a saucepan melt one tablespoonful of 
butter; add one tablespoonful of fiour, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a third of a teaspoonful of pepper and 
cook for two minutes. Gradually stir in three-quarters 
of a cupful of rich milk until smoothly thickened. Add 
the spinach; draw to one side and simmer gently for ten 
minutes. Serve on toast. 

SPINACH, GERMAN STYLE. 

Wash half a peck of spinach, cook, drain, chill and 
chop fine. In a saucepan cook together for five minutes 
two scant tablespoonfuls of butter and one heaping 
tablespoonful of finely chopped onion. Add a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and one tablespoonful 
of flour and cook slowly until the flour is pale brown. 
Gradually stir in one scant cupful of chicken or veal 
stock. When smoothly thickened, add the spinach, 
cover, draw to one side, and simmer for twenty minutes. 



284 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



STRING BEANS WITH NEW POTATOES. 

Camden, N. J. 

BemoYG the strings from one quart of beans. Boil 
with one-fourth pound of salt pork or bacon until the 
beans are nearly tender. Have a quart of new potatoes 
pared and place in the kettle with beans. Season 
with salt. Let them boil together until beans and 
potatoes are tender. Serve with the boiled salt pork. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Marion Harland. 

Wash the beets, rubbng them carefully with the palm 
of the hand to dislodge dirt, but not so hard as to 
abrade the tender skin. Drop into fresh cold water 
as you cleanse them. Put into a saucepan of salted 
boiling water, and cook for an hour. Drain, scrape, 
slice and serve in a deep dish with melted butter poured 
over them. They are best when a tablespoonful of hot 
vinegar is added to the melted butter. 

CREAMED YOUNG BEETS. 

Marion Harland. 

Cook with two inches of the stem on to prevent 
bleeding, and do not clip the tap root. Have ready a 
cupful of cream, heated, with a pijich of soda. Rub the 
skins off, top and tail the beets, and slice them thin 
into the cream, setting the saucepan containing it in 
boiling water. When all are in, stir in a tablespoonful 
of butter rubbed into one of flour, pepper, salt and a 
teaspoonful, each, of sugar and onion juice. Simmer 
two minutes to cook the flour, and dish. 



VEGETABLES. 285 

SQUASH. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Summer squash, which are in market during the sum- 
mer months, should be young, tender and thin-skinned. 
The common varieties are the white round and yellow 
crooknecks. Some of the winter varieties appear iu 
market as early as the. middle of August. Among the 
most common are Marrow, Turban and Hubbard. Tur- 
ban and Hubbard are usually drier than Marrow. Mar- 
row and Turban have a thin shell, which may be pared 
off before cooking. Hubbard squash has a very hard 
shell, which must be split in order to separate squash in 
pieces, and squash then cooked in the shell. In select- 
ing winter squash, see that it is heavy in proportion to 
its size 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH. 

Pare squash and cut in very thin slices. Sprinkle 
slices with salt, and pile on a plate. Cover with a weight 
to express the juice, and let stand one hour. Dredge 
with flour and saut6 slowly in butter until crisp and 
brown. 

CREAMED SQUASH. 

Marion Harland. 
Peel two summer squashes and cut into dice of uni- 
form size. Boil for fifteen minutes in salted water, or 
until tender, but not broken. Drain carefully in a col- 
ander and keep hot while you cook together two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of butter and the same quantity of 
flour until they bubble; then pour upon them a cupful 
and a half of sweet milk. Stir until smooth; turn in 
the squash dice, season liberally with salt and white 
pepper, and serve. 



286 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CARROTS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book, 

Peel and cut enough new carrots in one-sixth of an 
inch slices. Put them in a saucepan with one-half pint 
of water, a little salt, tablespoonful sugar, and one ounce 
of butter. Cover and cook about one-half hour, tossing 
occasionally. Add a liaison of three egg yolks — the liai- 
son including twice as much cold water as you have 
liquid yolks when beaten — and one-lialf cup cream, one 
ounce of butter, and chopped parsley. Mix carefully by 
tossing in the saucepan. Serve at once. 

MACARONI (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Mrs, Wm. Mattocks, 

One and a half pounds macaroni, one can tomatoes 
(strained), one onion, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one-half cup dry mushrooms, one-half cup grated 

parmesan cheese. First wash well and soak the diy 
mushrooms in luke-warm water for half an hour. Dis- 
solve the butter in a saucepan and in it put the onion, 
which has been chopped very fine. When the onion is 
a golden brown, put the mushrooms in the saucepan, be- 
ing sure to squeeze out all the water first. Pry the 
butter, onion and mushrooms together for a minute or 
two, and then pour in the tomatoes, which have been 
strained, pepper and salt to taste. Allow this to simmer 
for about one and a half hours, or longer, if tomatoes 
are very watery. Place a large pot full of cold water 
on the fire to boil; salt this a little moi<5 than for soup; 
when the water is boiling put in the macaroni, and let 
them boil slowly, continually, until done; do not allow 
them to become too soft, or they will be mushy. When 
done, pour the macaroni in a colander and let the water 



VEGETABLES. 287 

drip off, then put a layer of them on a platter and pour 
some of the gravy over them and then sprinkle a little 
cheese on them, then another layer of macaroni, gravy, 
and cheese, and so on until all are on the platter. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES (VBRY NICE). 

Marion Harland. 
Break half a pound of pipe macaroni into inch- 
lengths, and boil in salted Water until tender. Drain, 
and put a layer of the macaroni in the bottom of a 
greased pudding dish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, onion 
juice and grated cheese, and cover all with a layer of 
stewed and strained tomatoes that have been previously 
seasoned to taste. On these goes another layer of maca- 
roni, and so on until the dish is full. The topmost layer 
must be of tomatoes, sprinkled with crumbs and good- 
sized bits of butter. Set in a hot oven, covered, for twen- 
ty minutes, and then bake, uncovered, until the crumbs 
are well browned. 

MACARONI RISSOLES. 

Marion Harland. 
Have ready a cupful of cold, boiled macaroni, cut 
up small. Make a white sauce by cooking together a 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour and stirring 
into them a cupful of hot milk. Stir until thick, add 
a large tablespoonful of grated cheese, and, gradually, 
the whipped yolks of four eggs, beating all the time. 
Work the macaroni into the sauce and set aside until 
the mixture is very cold. With floured hands form into 
small balls, not quite as large in circumference aa a 
silver dollar, roll in beaten egg, then in fine cracker 
crumbs, and set in the ice-box for two hours. Fry in 
deep, boiling fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 



288 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SPAGHETTI WITH SWISS CHEESE. 

Mrs. F. D, Gray. 
Break a half pound of spaghetti into bits not more 
than an inch and a half in length, and boil in slightly 
salted water for twenty minutes. Turn into a hot col- 
ander and set at the side of the range to drain. Grate 
enough Swiss cheese to make a generous half cupful, and 
turn into a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Stir well ; add the hot spaghetti, toss and stir 
for a minute, or just long enough to melt the cheese ; add 
a dash of paprika and serve in a hot dish. Brown in 
oven. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Place a handful of spaghetti in a kettle of 
boiling salted water. As it softens, bend and coil it 
round in the kettle. Put a cover on and cook fifteen or 
twenty minutes, or until* tender. Drain in a colander. 
Then return to the kettle with enough tomato sauce to 
make it quite moist, a third of a cup of grated cheese — 
American or Parmesan — one tablespoonf ul of butter, and 
a dash of paprika. Cook slowly until the sauce is about 
absorbed. 

STEWED CELERY 

Marion Harland. 
A bunch of indifferent celery may be utilized for this 
dish. I have rescued stalks frosted accidentally through 
the cook's carelessness, laid them in ice-cold water for 
two hours, prepared them as I shall direct, and presented 
as palatable food that whose end would otherwise have 
been the garbage pail. After stewing tender and drain- 
ing, transfer to another saucepan in which you have 



VEGETABLES. 289 



heated a cupful of milk (with a pinch of soda in it)^ 
thicken it with a tablespoonful of butter rubbed in a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and stir to a boil. Mix the celery well 
with this^ season with pepper and salt, heat all together 
for one minute, and dish. 

BEANS SAUTES. 

Marion Harland. 

Soak beans over night and boil until tender. Drain 
very dry and sprinkle with salt. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a frying pan, and when this has melted 
fry in it a large onion sliced. When the onion has 
browned remove it with a perforated spoon, and stir into 
the butter a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Now add 
the beans and turn them over and over in the hissing 
butter until very hot. Sprinkle lightly with salt (if 
needed) and pepper. Turn into a colander, then into 
a hot dish. 

STEWED BEANS. 

Mrs. 8eely*8 Cook Booh. 

Soak overnight. In the morning parboil for one 
hour, drain, put them over the fire in enough weak stock 
to cover them and stew two hours, slowly. For the last 
hour set in a pan of boiling water to prevent scorching. 
All the stock should be absorbed, yet the beans should 
not be dry. At the end of two hours stir in a sauce 
made of one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful 
of mustard and the same of molasses, with twice as much 
onion juice and the juice of half a lemon, mixed in half 
a capful of boiling water. Leave, covered, upon the firo 
for ten mnutes (still in boiling water), and turn out. 



290 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Shell, lay in cold water for half an hour, and cook 
half an hour in boiling water, a little salted. Drain, 
toss about over a lump of butter, and salt and pep- 
per to your liking. 

LIMA BEANS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Cook as directed in last recipe, but instead of dishing 
after draining, return to the saucepan with a good white 
sauce into which you have stirred a little chopped pars- 
ley. Simmer three minutes and serve. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Pick over one quart pea beans, cover with cold water, 
and soak overnight. In morning drain, cover with 
fresh water, heat slowly (keeping water below boiling 
point) and cook until skins will burst, which is best de- 
termined by taking a few beans on the tip of a spoon 
and blowing on them, when skins will burst if suflScient- 
ly cooked. Beans thus tested must, of course, be tlirown 
away. Drain beans, throwing bean water out of doors, 
not in sink. Scald rind of one-half pound fat salt pork, 
scrape, remove one-fourth inch slice and put in bottom 
of bean-pot. Cut through rind of remaining pork every 
one-half inch, making cuts one inch deep. Put beans 
in pot and bury pork in beans, leaving rind exposed. Mix 
one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon molasses and three 
tablespoons sugar ; add one cup boiling water, and pour 
over beans, then add enough more boiling water to cover 
beans. Cover bean-pot, put in oven, and bake slowly six 



VEGETABLES. 291 

or eight hours, uncovering the last hour of cooking, that 
rind may become brown and crisp. Add water as need- 
ed. Many feel sure that by adding with seasonings, one- 
half tablespoon mustard, that beans are more easily di- 
gested. If pork mixed with lean is preferred, use less 
salt. The fine reputation which Boston baked beans 
have gained has been attributed to the earthen bean-pot 
with small top and bulging sides, in which they are sup- 
posed to be cookd. Equally good beans have often been 
eaten where a five-pound lard pail was substituted for 
the broken bean-pot. Yellow-eyed beans are very good 
when baked. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Marion Harland, 
Soak a quart of beans in cold water all night. In tlie 
morning soak them for two hours in warm water. Drain, 
put into a pot with enough water to cover them, and 
bring them slowly to a boil. When they are tender, turn 
them into a deep bake dish ; first pouring off the surplus 
water. Cut gashes in a half-pound piece of parboiled 
salt pork, and place this in the center of the dish. To a 
pint of the water in which the beans were boiled add a 
gill of molasses and a saltspoonful of French mustard. 
Mix well, and pour this over the beans and pork. Cover 
the dish and bake in a steady oven for six hours. 

BAKED BEANS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Marion Harland. 
Soak white beans overnight in cold water, and in 
the morning put over the fire in boiling water, slightly 
salted. Cook until tender. Drain and put into a deep 
dish. Cover with a tomato sauce, made by cooking to- 
gether a tablespoonful, each, of butter and flour until 



292 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

they bubble, and then pouring upon them a cupful of 
strained tomato liquor. Season to taste, and rather 
highly, unless you have previously added salt and pep- 
per to the beans, and cook gently until quite dry. Turn 
into a bowl wet with hot water, press down firmly and 
reverse the bowl upon a hot platter. Cover the mound 
with grated cheese, brush all over with beaten white of 
egg, sift grated cheese upon the egg, and set upon the 
top grating of your oven to color slightly. 

MASHED TUBNIPS. 

Marion Harland. 
Peel, lay in cold water for an hour ; boil tender in hot, 
salted water ; throw this off and fill up the pot with boil- 
ing water, slightly salted. Cook five minutes in this, 
drain well and rub through a colander or vegetable- 
press. Beat in a lump of butter rolled in a little flour, 
salt and pepper to taste ; return to the saucepan and cook 
one minute, stirring all the time. 

TURNIPS BOILED, PLAIN. 

Marion Harland. 
Pare and quarter. Cook tender in two waters; drain, 
dish; pour a little melted butter, seasoned with pepper 
and salt, over them, and serve hot. 

YOUNG TURNIPS STEWED WITH CREAM. 

Marion Harland. 
Pare, lay in cold water one hour ; cook tender in two 
waters; drain and cover with hot cream (heated with 
a pinch of soda), or hot milk if you have no cream. Sim- 
mer gently for five minutes ; stir in a white roux made 
by cooking together a tablespoonful of butter and one 
of flour, salt and pepper, and serve very hot. 



VEGETABLES. 293 

BOILED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Marion Harland. 
Wash the artichokes thoroughly, pare and slice, or 
trim them into an oblong shape. Cook in slightly salted 
boiling water until tender, but not broken, and pour 
melted butter over them. Sprinlde with salt and pepper, 
and when turned into the dish, add a sprinkling of 
minced parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. 

BAKED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Wash and pare the artichokes, and cook tender. Then 
cut into neat slices. Put them into a baking dish, 
sprinkle on a layer of grated Parmesan cheese and cover 
with a white or cream sauce. Sprinkle buttered crumbs 
over the top and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Marion Harland. 
Scrape the roots, throwing them at once into cold 
water, that they may not blacken. Cut into inch lengths 
and put over the fire in boiling salted water. Stew un- 
til tender. Drain off the water and pour upon the salsi- 
fy in the saucepan a cup of hot milk. After it has 
simmered five minutes add a tablespoonful of butter and 
three tablespoonfuls of cracker dust; season to taste and 
serve. 

MOCK FRIED OYSTERS. 

Marion Harland. 
Wash, trim and cook a bunch of oyster-plant (or sal- 
sify) in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and 
scrape off the skin. Mash well, and if stringy rub 
through a colander. To one pint of the mashed salsi- 
fy add one teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 



294 KIRMESS COOK' BOOK. 

butter, one well-beaten egg, and salt and pepper to sea- 
son highly. Take up a small spoonful and shape it into 
an oval about the size of a large oyster ; dip each lightly 
in flour, or very fine cracker crumbs, and brown on each 
side in hot butter. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. 

Marion Harland. 

Peel an eggplant and cut into slices half an inch 
thick. Lay in cold salt water for an hour; wipe each 
slice dry and dip, first in beaten egg, and then in cracker 
dust. Set in a cold place for an hour and fry in deep 
boiling fat. Drain in a heated colander before dishing. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Booh. 

Prepare a medium-sized eggplant two or three hours 
before cooking. Peel and cut it in even slices about one- 
quarter of an inch thick. Place them on a dish, sprinkle 
each slice with a little salt and pepper. Put them in 
press with a heavy weight on top. ITiis wDl extract all 
the bitter taste. Dip each slice in beaten egg, then in 
fine bread crumbs. Fry in hot fat until a nice brown. 
Season with a little salt, drain on brown paper, and 
serve very hot. If one prefer, the egg plant may be 
dipped in thin batter instead of egg and crumbs, and 
cooked in the same way. 

STUFFED EGGPLANT. 

Mrs, Seelys Cook Book. 

Take two medium-sized eggplants. Cut off the stem, 
slit lengthwise in halves, tracing the incisions inside. Fry 
the plants until soft, then drain. Then take two ounces 
of butter, two ounces of finely chopped pork, two ounces 



VEGETABLES. 295 



of finely chopped shallots, one pint of chopped mush- 
rooms. Stir and cook ten minutes. With a tablespoon 
take up most of the fleshy part of the egg plant, put 
with the above preparation, and season with salt, pepper, 
and chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly and put this stuf- 
fing in the egg plants on a baking dish. Sprinkle with 
fresh bread crumbs and grated cheese — Parmesan or 
American. Drop a little sweet oil over and bake light 
brown in a pretty hot oven. Slide on a dish, pour a 
ladleful of brown sauce round it, and serve. 

BAKED EGGPLANT. 

Mrs; Charles A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 
Parboil eggplant in boiling salted water from fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Cut in half and scoop out meat of 
each end. Mix through it cupful of bread crumbs and 
stir through one eggy lump of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Eefill in the shell, with bread crumbs on top, 
and brown in oven. 

FRIED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Henry Miller. 
Select some nice fresh green peppers, and after split- 
ting and removing the seeds, lay them in cold, salted 
water. When they feel very crisp, wipe them off with a 
cloth. Melt some butter in a frying pan and when hot 
fry the peppers in it. 

SAVORY BOILED CABBAGE. 

Marion Harland. 

Cut a firm cabbage into four parts and reject tlie 

outer leaves. Wash carefully in two waters, taking care 

to dislodge any insects that may be concealed between 

the leaves. Have a large pot of boiling water on the 



29G KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

range; dissolve in a tablespoonful of salt and a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda. Plunge the cabbage 
into this, and cook, uncovered, for fifteen minutes ; drain, 
and fill the pot with more boiling water, adding salt as 
you do so. Cook the cabbage until tender, always uncov- 
ered, turn into a colander, press out all the water and 
set aside to get very cold. Chop fine and season with 
salt, white pepper, and a dash of tomato catsup. Heat 
in a saucepan a large cupful of well-seasoned soup stock, 
turn the cabbage into this and toss and turn until very 
hot. Now add a large spoonful of melted butter, and a 
teasponful of lemon juice, and serve. 

BAKED OABBAGE. 

Marion Harland, 

Boil cabbage tender in two waters, drain and set aside 
until cold, then chop fine. Mix together two beaten 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt and a dash 
of paprika. Stir this into the chopped cabbage and put 
it into a buttered pudding dish. Sprinkle bread crumbs 
over the top and bake until brown. 

FRICA88BED OABBAGB. 

Marion Harland. 

Boil and chop, as in the last recipe, and keep hot while 
you cook together in a saucepan a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one (heaping) of flour; when they bubble, pour 
upon them a cupful of hot milk. Stir to a smooth sauce; 
turn into this tiie chopped cabbage, cook for a minute, 
season and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 297 

AN ITALIAN DISH OF OABBAGE. 

Marion Harland. 
Boil a cabbage in two waters ; drain ; when cold, chop 
coarsely, and season with salt and pepper. Butter a 
pudding dish, put a layer of cabbage in this; sprinkle 
with buttered crumbs and a teaspoonful of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Put in more cabbage, more crumbs and 
cheese, and when the dish is nearly full pour a cup of 
seasoned beef stock over all. Bake for half an hour. 

"COLD-SLAW'^ FOR CABBAGE OB LETTUCE. 

Mrs. Lee Condict. 
One wine glass vinegar, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one and one-half teaspoon sugar, 
one egg, small cup cream, butter size of a walnut. Boil 
vinegar, mustard, sugar, salt and butter; then cool. Beat 
egg and cream and pour into vinegar; boil all together 
till thick, stirring often. 

CABBAGE DRESSING. 

Miss Stella T. Flanagan. 
One egg, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, six teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, pinch of cayenne. Boil in double boil- 
er until it just begins to thicken ; cool in pan of water, 
stirring quickly. When ready to serve, add three or four 
tablespoonfuls of cream and the beaten white of one egg. 
This makes a small quantity. 

BOILED BICE. 

Tested. 
Into three pints of hot salted water, when at a fast 
boil, throw half a cupful of raw rice, previously washed 
and picked over. Keep it at a furious boil for twenty 



29S KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



minutes, when test a grain to see if it is done. If it is 
soft, drain away every drop of water; set the uncov- 
ered pot at the back of the range for two minutes to 
dry off the rice, and serve. Not a spoon should touch 
it while cooking, and each grain should be whole and 
apart from the rest. This, the one and only way to boil 
rice properly, is also tlie easiest. Shake the saucepan up 
three times while the rice is in cooking, to make sure it 
does not clog. 

BICE A LA JAPANESE. 

Tested. 

The Japs excel in cooking rice, and their method is 
exceedingly simple. Put one cupful of rice, which has 
been thoroughly washed, over the fire with five of fast 
boiling water. Add salt, and when it has boiled fast for 
fifteen minutes set the saucepan, uncovered, in a moder- 
ate oven. In fifteen minutes the water will have com- 
pletely evaporated, and every grain be distinct and 
fluffy. Not a grain will stick to the saucepan. 

MOLDED BICE. 

Tested. 

Boil a cupful of rice in plenty of hot salted water 
until soft. Drain and dry off. Stir into it a great spoon- 
ful of butter, a teaspoonful of onion juice and the beatr 
en yolks of two eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir 
over the fire in a bowl set in boiling water for two min- 
utes, using a fork that you may not break the rice to 
pieces. Turn into a round-])ottomed bowl, wet with cold 
water, and press down hard. Reverse the bowl upon a 
fireproof platter, cover the molded rice thickly with a 
meringue made of the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. 



VEGETABLES. 299 

and set upon the top grating of the oven for three min- 
utes to form. Eat with drawn butter. 

SPANISH RICE (VEBY NICE). 

Tested. 
Boil one cupful of rice until tendei in plenty of boil- 
ing water, salted ; drain and dry off. Chop a quarter of 
a pound of fat salt pork, and fry in a pan. When it 
hisses, put into tlie pan two medium-sized onions^ also 
minced. Chop two green sweet peppers (seeded, of 
course), and mix with the rice, then the pork and onions, 
and enough tomato sauce to moisten the mixture well. 
Butter a bake dish, add salt and pepper, if needed, to the 
rice, and put into the dish. Coat thickly with fine 
crumbs and bake, covered, for twenty minutes; then 
brown. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Tested. 
Boil as directed in first recipe ; drain, and beat in two 
whipped eggs, half a cupful of milk (or cream, if you 
have it), a little butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little 
mace, pepper and salt. Set by until perfectly cold, form 
into croquettes, roll in egg and fine crumbs, leave on 
ice for an hour and fry in boiling deep fat 

PLAIN HOMINY PUDDING. 

Marion Harland. 
Soak a cupful of hominy for three hours in tepid 
water. Drain, and put over the fire in plenty of boiling 
water, slightly salted. Boil fast for thirty minutes, or 
until tender ; turn off the water and pour in a pint of hot 
milk, with a little salt. Cook for fifteen minutes, stir 
in a generous lump of butter and turn into a deep dish. 
Eat with sugar and cream. 



302 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

be used in place of the turnip; if so, one quart of the 
balls or cubes will be required. 

VEGETABLE CUTLETS. 

Cut into dice sufficient white turnip and Irish potato 
to measure one cupful each, and steam or boil until 
tender. Drain a can of peas, wash, and let stand in 
cold water for half an hour, then drain very dry. Make 
a thick white sauce with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
three large tablespoonfuls of flour, one cupful and a half 
of milk; when smoothly thickened season highly with 
salt, white pepper and one teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Carefully mix in the turnips, potatoes and one-half of 
the peas. Thickly butter a shallow pan, spread on it 
one-half of the reserved peas, pour ever them the mix- 
ture ; on top spread the remainder of the peas, pressing 
them in lightly with the back of a spoon. Set aside un- 
til cold and firm. Turn out on a crumbed board, cut in 
wedges, dip each in slightly beaten egg and roll in 
fine dry crumbs. Fry golden brown in deep fat, and 
decorate each cutlet with a green frill. 

CHESTNUTS. 

Marion Harland. 
\ The large Spanish chestnuts sold by .grocers in the 
city, and in the markets, make excellent puddings 
with or without sugar, and, as vegetables, go well with 
poultry and beef. 

CHESTNUT PUDDING. 

Marion Harland. 

Boil and skin enough chestnuts to make a cupful 
when rubbed through a colander or vegetable press. 
Beat four eggs light, stir the chestnut into the yolks; 



VEGETABLES. 303 

add a tablespoonful of melted butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of fine cracker dust, two cupfuls of ndlk, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste; lastly 
the frothed whites. Bake, covered, in a buttered pud- 
ding dish for half an hour; uncover, brown and serve 
before it falls. Eat with meat. 

CHESTNUTS. 

Miss Sutton, Rye, N. Y. 

Cook a pound of Spanish chestnuts for fifteen min- 
utes, free them from all skin and cook in a quart of 
milk, stirring frequently, until about the consistency 
of mashed potato. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter and rub through a sieve. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

BANANAS SAUTES. 

Tested. 

Peel, cut lengthwise into thirds ; roll in flour, slight- 
ly salted and peppered. Heat two tablespoonfuls of 
butter or clarified drippings in a frying pan; put in 
the bananas and fry to a golden brown, turning several 
times. Serve upon buttered toast. 

BANANAS PBIED WHOLE. 

Tested. 

Peel and cut off the tip at each end; sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, roll in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, 
again in egg, and again crumb them. Leave them upon 
ice for an hour or two, and fry in deep, boiling fat to 
a delicate brown. Serve very hot. 



304 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Tested. 

Strip off one-third of the skin of each, and with a 
silver knife loosen the skin around the fruit. Ar- 
range in a baking-pan with the stripped side upper- 
most. On each banana place a quarter teaspoonf ul of 
butter, sprinkle with one teaspoonful of sugar and a 
half teaspoonful of water for each banana, and bake 
about twenty minutes. 

SCALLOPED BANANAS. 

Tested. 

Peel, slice and arrange in a buttered bake-dish, al- 
ternately with fine crumbs. Sprinkle each layer with 
salt, pepper and butter, also with a little cream. Let 
the uppermost layer be crumbs, well-buttered and 
wet with cream. Bake, covered, half-an-hour, then 
brown. 



CHEESE DISHES. 



CHAPTER XVI 

WELSH BABEBIT. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert's Cook, New York. 

Take a saucepan and butter it well, and then cut the 
cheese into small pieces and take a good tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and a tablespoonful of sweet milk. 
Make toast first and keep warm. Stir the cheese all 
the time: just as soon as it melts pour it over the 
toast. If you wish you can put in a little mustard. 
Get mild cheese. If you provide for fifteen people, you 
need five pounds of cheese; half dozen people, three 
pounds of cheese. Put in beer if you wish it. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Mrs. Baird, YonJcers. 

For half v. dozen people, one pound of rich Ameri- 
can cheese, grated; add three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of made mustard, 
and a little pinch of red pepper; put one tablespoon 
of butter in a saucepan, and when it is melted, put 
in all the ingredients, and let it slowly warm on the 
side of the range. Have ready a hot covered dish, 
lined with hot buttered toast. When the cheese is 
melted, pour some over each slice of toast, and serve 
at once on hot plates. 



306 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

WELSH RABEBIT. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 

Take four ounces of cheese, half an ounce of butter, 
a spoonful of made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, cayenne and black pepper to taste. 

Grate or chop the cheese in a bowl and rub all the 
ingredients to a uniform paste, adding a tablespoonful 
of milk, ale, porter, beer, or champagne. Make a slice 
of rather thick toast. Dip it an instant in boiling 
water and place in the oven. 

Transfer the prepared cheese mixture to a sauce- 
pan and stir over a gentle heat until melted, then 
heat up qiuckly and pour upon the toast and serve. 

SWISS RAREBIT. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 
Take as many eggs as you wish — the number being 
based on the number of your guests — and weigh them. 
For your cheese take a third of the weight of the eggs, 
and for butter a sixth of the weight of the eggs. Beat 
the eggs in a saucepan, grate or cut in small pieces 
the cheese, add that to the eggs, stirring all the time, 
and then add the butter. Stir well over a good fire 
until the mixture is thick and smooth. Add little salt, 
a large dash of pepper, and serve in a hot dish. This is 
best cooked in a double kettle. 

CHEESE PUFFS. 

Miss Simmons, New York. 
One cup boiling water, one cup sifted flour, one 
tablespoon of butter, a pinch of salt, six eggs, beaten 
one at a time, put on ice until ready for use. Then put 
in a pan and bake. Use a teaspoonful of filling for 
each puff. Filling: one tablespoonful of butter, one 



CHEESE DISHES. 307 

tablespoonful sifted flour, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
grated cheese, a pinch of salt, a dash of red pepper. 
Rub the flour and butter together, put in boiling milk, 
then add the grated cheese. 

SOUFFLE OF FBOMAGE. 

Mrs, Oould's French Chef, 

One tablespoonful of flour^ one egg^ mixed with milk 
enough to make a batter, a little salt, one dessertspoon 
of grated Gruyere cheese. Put a little butter in dishes 
with handles that you serve it in, fill three-quarters 
full of batter, cook about ten minutes. This is quan- 
tity for one person. 

CHEESE RAMEQUINE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
One ounce of butter, one-half ounce of flour, one- 
half gill of milk, a tablespoonful of cream, two eggs, 
two ounces grated cheese, pepper and salt to taste. 
Put the flour and butter in a stew pan, when well 
mixed add the cream and milk, stir until it thickens. 
Boil three or four minutes, add the cheese, yolks of 
eggs and seasoning, whip the whites of eggs very stiff 
and stir lightly in, pour into greased ramequine cases, 
sprinkhng grated cheese over the top, bake in a quick 
oven ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the cases. 

CHEESE RAMAKIN. 

Miss S. 'E. Anness. 

Three heaping tablespoonfuls bread crumbs in one 
coffee-cup of milk, liet come to a boil and add three 
tablespoonfuls butter, two yolks of eggs, six table- 
spoonsfuls grated cheese, one-third teaspoonful salt, 
one-third teaspoonful mustard, a pinch cayenne pep- 



308 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

per; last fold in two whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in shallow dish fifteen minutes. Serre 
hot for a Luncheon or Tea. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Mrs. Elgin L. MacBumey. 
One and a half cups of grated cheese, one tablespoon 
of flour, one and a quarter teaspoon salt, a very small 
pinch of cayenne pepper, the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, mix thoroughly. Boll into 
balls, dust with cracker crumbs and fry in deep lard. 
Serve immediately. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 

Mix together thoroughly one cupful and half of 
grated cheese, a quarter of a teaspoon of salt, and a 
few grains of cayenne pepper; then add the whites 
of three eggs beaten stiff; shape in balls the size of 
walnuts, roll in crackers crumbs, sifted fine; fry in deep 
fat, or rather boil, and drain on brown paper. Serve 
hot or with a salad. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Mrs. Charlotte Appleton^ Bayside^ L, I. 
Beat two eggs very light, add just enough grated 
cheese to handle the mixture, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Boll into balls the size of a walnut, dip in 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard a delicate 
brown. To be served while hot with salad. 

CROUTONS. 

Rose Brown, London, England. 

Two ounces of cheese, one ounce of butter, yolk of 
hard boiled egg, little cayenne salt. Mix all ingredients 



CHEESE DISHES. 309 

to a paste, spread mixture on round pieces of toasted 
bread, brown and serve hot. 

CHEESE BEUSH. 

Mrs. George Milne, Portchester, N. Y. 

Slice one-quarter of a ponud of cheese into frying 
pan; over it pour mixture made of one large cup of 
milk, one half teaspoon of mustard, pinch of salt; add 
piece of butter size of butternut; stir thoroughly. 
Crumble fine three crackers and sprinkle into the mix- 
ture, turn into warmed dish and serve. 

CHEESED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Oeorgd Milne, Port Chester, N. T. 
Cut stem end from well-shaped tomatoes and scoop 
out the heart of each. To two tablespoons of tomato 
pulp add one teaspoon of bread crumbs and one tea- 
spoon of crumbled cheese. Season to taste, and fill 
tomato shells with the mixture. Replace stem ends, bake 
in roasting pan for twenty minutes, transfer to hot 
platter and serve. 

CHEESE BICE. 

Mrs. George Milne, Port Chester, N. Y. 
Boil one cup of rice in two quarts of water until 
tender; drain, shake hard, stand at back of range 
ten minutes to dry. Add one tablespoon of butter, 
four tablespoons of grated or cream cheese and tiny 
dash of cayenne pepper. Stir well and serve hot. 

CHEESE ENTREE. 

Mrs. Seeiey's Cook Book. 
One slice of Eoquefort cheese and butter size of 
walnut; mix thoroughly and make a thin paste with 



310 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

three or four tablespoonfuls of fruit juice. When of 
a good spreading consistency, spread it over slices of 
Busset, Northern Spy, or other tart apples, and serve 
chilled. 

BAKED GHBESE. 

{jontributed. 
Dissolve three ounces of butter in a gill of hot 
water. Melt three ounces each of American and 
Gruyere cheese. Stir all together until creamy, then 
add enough sifted flour to make a stiflf paste and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix the whole thoroughly. 
Mould with two buttered tablespoons, slip on greased 
paper, and when all are moulded set in a moderate 
oven. When slightly brown brush them over with the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Return to the oven 
for one minute. Take up on a hot dish, dust with 
pepper and fill the center with grated cheese. 

CHEESE CUTLETS, 

Contributed. 

To the well-beaten yolks of three eggs add one 
tablespoonful of cream and one ounce of grated Par- 
mesan cheese and season with mace and cayenne. Beat 
until very light and add one tablespoonful of B6chamel 
sauce. Pour into a buttered pan and steam over hot 
water until firm. When cold cut in shapes with a 
fancy cutter, dredge with grated cheese and fry in 
boiling fat to a delicate brown. Serve at once on 
fried bread. 

CHEESE DATES. 

Marion Harland, 
Cut large dates two-thirds around lengthwise, and 
extract the seeds, leaving the back of each uncut to 



CHEESE DISHES. 311 

fonn a hinge. Fill them with cream cheese rubbed 
soft with butter, bring the sides together to hold in 
the filling, and pile upon a glass dish. 
They are a nice accompaniment to afternoon tea. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Ralph Siauffen, Providence, B. L 

Cut bakers' bread in slices one-half inch thick, place 
between two pieces a thin slice of American cheese, 
seasoned with a dash of paprika. Heat in a frying 
pan two tablespoonfuls of butter until very hot; fry 
sandwiches on both sides until a golden brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mrs. Bacon^ Sheffield, Mass. 
To a half pint of prepared flour add two ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, moisten with the yolk of an 
egg and enough milk to make a paste that can be 
rolled out. EoU into a thin sheet and cut into narrow 
"straws." Bake to a delicate brown. While they are 
hot sift grated cheese over them. 

CHEESE PUFFS. 

Marion Harland. 

In a saucepen of boiling water melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. When the water and butter are boiling 
stir into them four tablespoonfuls of flour, wet with 
a little cold water, and four tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese. Cook for the three minutes, stirring all the 
time. Bemove from the fire, and when the mixture 
is cold add two eggs and beat hard for fifteen minutes. 
Line a baking-pan with greased paper and drop the 
mixture upon it, a spoonful at a time, leaving ample 



312 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

space between each puff for the swelling caused by 
baking. When puffed up and brown they are done, and 
must be eaten at once. 

CHEESE CRACKEBS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

On buttered crackers lay slices of American cheese, 
cut thin; arrange in a baking-pan and set in the oven 
until the cheese is melted. Serve hot. A little cayenne 
sprinkled upon the crackers is liked by many. 

CHEESE FINGERS 

Sheffield, Mass. 

Cut puff-paste into strips as long and as wide as 
your middle finger, sprinkle with a layer of cheese 
(grated), press upon this another strip of pastry, 
sprinkle with more cheese and bake in a quick oven. 

CREAM CHEESE. 

Marion Harland. 

To every quart of rich milk you use allow a pinch 
of salt and a teaspoonful of rennet, taking care to 
buy that which is not flavored in any way. When it is 
solid turn into a bag and let it drip. When it is 
well drained so that all the whey is taken from the 
curd — ^it may take more than a day for this, and in that 
case you must change the bag at the end of the first 
twelve hours — take it out, chop the curd fine, put it into 
a cheese box and press two hours. Wrap in two or three 
folds of tissue paper or in tinfoil, to exclude the air. 



CHEESE DISHES. 313 

OHEESE CBOQUETTES. 

Tested. 

Mix one tablespoonful of melted butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour with one teacup of milk. Place 
on the fire to let it come to a boil. Season to taste 
and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Set away to 
cooL When throughly cold, mix with two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese — American or Parmesan — and a 
dash of cayenne. Form into croquettes, dip into 
beaten egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat. 

CHEESB TIMBALE. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Boole. 

Mix one cup of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour together, and stir over 
a moderate fire until the mixture comes to a boil, 
then stir in five tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Strain through a puree sieve and set away. 
When cold, stir in three well-beaten eggs and salt 
and white pepper to taste. Orease some small timbale 
moulds, decorate the inside with truffles, pour the 
mixture in, then set in pan of water, and bake in hot 
oven for ten minutes. Serve with cheese sauce. 

POT CHEESE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Place over the fire a pan of milk which has soured 
and thickened. When it has become scalding hot, 
ladle the curd and whey into a muslin bag, and hang 
up the bag to drain for an hour or two. Then take the 
curd from the bag, moisten with thick cream, mix in 



314 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

a small quantity of salt, work well with, the hands, 
and either form in a mound, in a glass dish, or roll 
in balls. Keep well covered, in a cool place, and 
serve cold. 

PONDU OP PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould's Cook. 

Mix two ounces of flour with two ounces of butter, 
a very little salt and white pepper, and half a pint of 
milk. Stir over the fire until it- boils. Work it quickly 
with the spoon until it is perfectly smooth, then add 
six ounces of Parmesan cheese and the well-beaten 
yolks of six eggs. Wliip the whites quite firm and 
lightly stir them in. Fill a 8ouffl6 case with this 
mixture. Bake in quick oven and send to the table as 
soon as it is ready. 

TOASTED CHEESE PUDTilNG. 

Mrs. C. W. Cropper. 

One-half pound of cheese grated,' one pint of milk, 
stand on range until well simmered, two slices of bread, 
crumb and mash in witli rest while simmering; when 
melted add one well-beaten ^g^, one-half teaspoon- 
ful dry mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Bake to a 
light brown in a hot oven. Twenty minutes will do. 



EGGS. 



CHAPTER XVII 

NESTED EGGS. 

Mrs, T, K. Egbert, New York. 
Take as many as you wish nested. Strain oflE the 
whites, being careful not to break the yolks, which you 
leave in the shell. Set the shells holding the yolks 
in a cool place until you are ready to use them. Take 
as many rounds of toast as you have nests to make. 
Spread with pounded chicken livers» beat the whites to 
a very stiff froth, heap on the toast^ then make a hollow 
in the center. Carefully drop in the yolks. Set in a 
very hot oven for three minutes, or until they are a 
very light brown. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley 
over each one and serve. 

EGG BASKETS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
From hard boiled eggs cut a thin slice off either 
end so that the halves will stand upright. Having 
halved the eggs, mix the yolks with some finely chopped 
ham, or chicken, or tongue, allowing a tablespoonful 
of the meat to a yolk, and mix smoothly together with 
salt, pepper, mustard, and melted butter. Form the 
paste into balls, which will be about the size of the orig- 
inal yolk, and lay in the hard basket-form whites. 
Pour over all a white sauce, set in the oven for a few 
moments, and send to the table garnished with parsley. 



316 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED EGOS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Let the eggs boil until they are hard and cut them in 
half. Take out the yolks and mix them with cold 
chicken, chopped very fine, pepper, salt, a piece of butter, 
and parsley, if you choose. Place the mixture in the 
hard whites, uniting the two parts; roll in the white 
of an egg and drop into hot fat and fry till light brown. 
Take them from the fat and drain. Make a sauce of 
cream or rich milk, thickened with flour, add the yolk 
of an egg, stir till smooth, pour over the eggs and 
serve. 

EGOS AU MIBOIR. 

Mrs. C. B. Alexander, HoboJcen. 

Lightly butter a silver dish large enough to hold 
twelve eggs, one beside another; carefully break into 
it twelve eggs, taking care to keep the yolks intact 
Evenly sprinkle over them half a pinch of salt; cook 
for one minute on the hot stove; then place them in 
the oven for one and a half minutes. Take out and 
place the diph on another and serve. 

EGOS WITH CHEESE. 

Mrs. Grace Marshall. 

Five eggs, two heaping tablespoonfuls dry grated 
cheese, Parmesan or old English cheese is best for 
this; one tablespoonful butter, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, a dash cayenne pepper. Beat the eggs light, add 
the cheese, the salt and the pepper, and use the butter 
melted, turn in the eggs, and stir until thick and 
smooth. Serve on toast or crackers. 



EGGS. 317 

BREAD BASKETS. 

Mrs. W. F. Brown. 
Cut onside of crust of French bread, not to spofl 
shape, cut slices thick, make hole out of soft end to hold 
one egg, fry same as crullers, then put on plate, drop 
one egg in each cavity, set all in quick oven, when egg 
is set or poached. Serve hot. 

EGG VEBMIGELLI. 

Mrs. Wm. Wescott. 
Boil three eggs, or one for a person, twelve minutes. 
Separate whites from yolks, keep yolks warm while 
chopping whites fine; pepper and sdt to taste. Make 
sauce of one heaping teaspoon of flour, three table- 
spoons of cream,, butter the size of a walnut. Mix the 
chopped whites in the sauce, spread on toast and rub 
yolks through a strainer over it. 

A LUNCHEON DISH. 

Mrs. Charlotte Appleton, Bayside, L. I. 
Butter baking dish, drop in six eggs whole, grate 
American cheese thickly, sprinkle a little salt, pepper 
and small pieces of butter over them and bake slowly. 
Serve in baking dish. 

RAYMOND Hitchcock's scrambled eggs and cheese. 

Break three eggs and slip them into a saucepan. 
Beat them, with a lump of butter, add two table- 
spoons of grated cheese, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Butter a saucepan and when hot pour in the mix- 
ture and allow it to cook for five minutes over a light 
flame, stirring all the while. When the mixture be- 
comes quite thick, pour into a deep dish and serve 
with fried toast. 



318 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Mrs. WoodhtUl Condict 

Put a small piece of butter in a saucepan, and 
when it is melted turn the saucepan round, so 
that the butter will run on the sides; then break the 
eggs in it and put it on the range^ and don^t stir them 
until the whites are set, then gently stir all together, 
add pepper and salt, and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITU PEAS. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book, 

Take six eggs, one tablespoon of butter, three table- 
spoons of milk, salt and pepper to taste, and one-half 
pint of cooked peas. Heat the butter and milk in an 
omelette pan. Break the eggs in a pan and stir till 
the mixture thickens. Have the peas very hot in an- 
other pan. Drain off all the liquid from the peas. Stir 
them in the eggs, season, and serve hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS ON CANAPES. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book, 

Select four large, heavy mushrooms and four a lit- 
tle Smaller. Remove the stems, peel, wash and dry, 
and chop them very fine. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter in a pan, and when it has melted add one tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped green onions. Cook slowly 
for three minutes, but do not let them brown. Add 
the chopped mushrooms and cook two or three minutes 
more. Stir constantly, adding one tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Cook for a few minutes. Sea- 
son with half a saltspoonful of salt and one-quarter 
of a saltspoonful of white pepper. Remove from the 



EGGS. 319 

range, stir in a small piece of fresh butter. Mix 
thoroughly, then add six eggs, one saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a one of pepper. Beat briskly for one minute. 
Pour in a hot saucepan with half a tablespoonful of 
butter and stir constantly over a slow fire for three or 
four minutes. The mixture must be in small pieces 
and cooked quite rare. Have ready the eight mush- 
rooms broiled. Arrange the larger of the broiled 
mushrooms on thin slices of warm bread. Fill each 
one with the egg, covered with the smaller boiled 
mushrooms. 

This dish must be served very hot and the mush- 
rooms must be cooked first, as the eggs must be served 
as soon as they are cooked. 

WILTON LACKAYE's CURRIED EGGS. 

Boil the eggs hard ; remove the shells and drop them 
in hot water to keep warm until ready to use. Mould 
some rice into a form resembling a nest. Place a tea- 
spoon of chopped onion in a saucepan with a table- 
spoon of butter and cook until the onion is a light yel- 
low, not brown. Add an even tablespoon of corn- 
starch mixed with a half tablespoon of curry-powder 
and diluted with a little cold milk or stock, then stir 
in slowly one and a half cups of white stock or milk. 
Let it cook until the cornstarch is clear, add pepper 
and salt to taste, and strain it. The sauce should be 
a bright yellow color, perfectly smooth and not very 
thick. Wipe the eggs dry, roll them in the sauce to 
get, evenly coated with color, and place them in the 
nest of rice. Pour in enough sauce to moisten the 
rice without discoloring the outside or top of it. 



320 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POACHBD EQ06. 

Marion Harland. 

The beauty of a poached egg is to have the yolk 
blushing through the white. Have a pan of fresh boil- 
ing water^ break egg in low cup about a quarter of an 
hour before it is to be cooked is also a good plan. 

Be sure the water is boiling and free from specks. 
If you have no egg-poacher^ use a clean frying-pan. 
Fill with boiling water, draw to the side of the range, 
slip the eggs, one by one, upon the surface, set carefully 
back over the fire and boil gently three minutes, or 
until the whites are firm. Take up with a flat perfo- 
rated spoon, lay upon rounds of buttered toast, trim 
off ragged edges and dust lightly with salt and white 
pepper. Celery salt gives a pleasant flavor to poached 
eggs, and some relish a drop of onion juice upon each. 

FRIED EGOS WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

Marion Harland. 

Put a good lump of butter into the frying-pan, and 
when it hisses sharply, cook the eggs as directed in the 
last recipe. When done, dish and keep them hot over 
boiling water. Now put two more tablespoonfuls of 
butter into the pan, fry brown, then add one table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a little onion juice with pep- 
per and salt. Boil the whole together for two minutes, 
pour it over the eggs, and serve. 

BASKETS OF OLIVES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

First have hard-boiled eggs from the end of which 
you chip a piece so that the egg will stand. Halve 
the eggs. Next pound to a paste in a mortar the flesh 



EGGS. 321 

of olives, a quarter as much ham and chicken, batter 
to help the paste, and the yolks of the whites you pur- 
BS!£j 



, --***g> »'"c pail round tht. 

it may cook evenly. With a fork lift up the bottom 
layer here and there^ allowing the liquid egg to flow 
underneath. Keep up the shaking. When the mix- 
ture is creamy and almost set sprinkle over salt and 
pepper and with a spatula, or any knife with a flexi- 
ble blade, begin to roll or "fold^* the omelet, then turn 
it out quickly on a heated dish. The cooking from 
start to finish should not take over three minutes, if 
as long. It takes practice to do this rightly, but the 



320 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POACHED E0G8. 

Marion Harland. 
TK^ hPftntir of A nofl^hed effff ifl tfli Jtia vfi the YOl k 



EGG CUTLETS. 

Mrs. William Brinkerhoff, 

One cup milk/six hard boiled eggs, two tablespoons 
flour, one of butter, one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
one-half teaspoon onion juice, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-half teaspoon pepper. Chop eggs fine. Boil milk, 
add it to butter and flour whicb have been thoroughly 
mixed. Stir constantly until very thick. Remove 
from fire, mix in all other ingredients, and set away 
rntil cold. Form into small cutlets. Dip in egg and 
ei\d crumbs. Fry in very hot fat. 

USE ROYAU BAKING POWDER, 



spoonful of vinegar and a little omon ]uice witn pep- 
per and salt. BoU the whole together for two minutes, 
pour it over the eggs, and serve. 

BASKETS OF OLIVES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cooh Booh. 
First have hard-boiled eggs from the end of which 
you chip a piece so that the egg will stand. Halve 
the eggs. Next pound to a paste in a mortar the flesh 



EGGS. 821 

of olives, a quarter as much ham and chicken, batter 
to help the paste, and the yolks of the whites yon pur- 
pose to use as baskets. 

Having well mixed these, stand the whites in a dish, 
fill up their hollows with the mixture, heaping it high 
and rounding it over mountain form with a spoon, 
drop over the baskets any piquant sauce you like, and 
serve. In the mixture allow about three olives to two 



OMELETS. 

TabU Talk. 
There is more than one way of making an omelet, 
some liking a fluffy result while others prefer the 
creamy yet light dish produced by what is known as 
the French method. To make a delicious omelet, juicy 
and light without dryness, try this way. Break the 
eggs in a bowl; for four add two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water. Beat with a fork six or eight times — ^just 
enough to mix. Drop in a half teaspoonful of butter 
cut in several pieces. Have the pan smoking hot. 
Drop in it half teaspoonful of butter and shake 
violently so as to quickly grease the bottom of the 
pan. Pour in the eggs, hold the pan over the hottest 
part of the fire and shake, turning the pan round that 
it may cook evenly. With a fork lift up the bottom 
layer here and there, allowing the liquid egg to flow 
underneath. Keep up the shaking. When the mix- 
ture is creamy and almost set sprinkle over salt and 
pepper and with a spatula, or any knife with a flexi- 
ble blade, begin to roll or "fold^* tiie omelet, then turn 
it out quickly on a heated dish. The cooking from 
start to finish should not take over three minutes, if 
as long. It takes practice to do this rightly, but the 



322 . KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

result is so satisfactory as to amply repay for the 
trouble. To transform this from a simple to a filled 
omelet have ready any mixture — chopped and well 
seasoned cold meat of any kind, cooked vegetables 
cut fine, peas, etc. When the omelet is almost ready 
to fold pour part or all of the filling in the center and 
roll up; if any quantity is used it is generally best 
to heat it separately. By the way of variety half of 
the filling may be placed in the omelet and the re- 
mainder mixed with a thick white or tomato sauce and 
poured round the omelet. The celebrated Spanish 
omelet has a filling of chopped bacon, onions, green 
peppers and tomato, cooked slowly together until very 
thick and rich. 

PBENCH OMELETTE. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict, 
One pint of milk, half -pint of bread crumbs, three 
eggs, half tablespoonful of flour, one small onion chop- 
ped very fine, some chopped parsley, season with pep- 
per and salt; beat the eggs light, and mix all the in- 
gredients together; have melted butter in a pan, hot, 
and pour the mixture in; when brown, turn over 
double, and serve. 

BAKED OMELETTE. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould, New York. 

Eight eggs beaten separately, one tablespoonful fiour, 
worked very smooth in one and one-half cups warm 
milk, a little salt, piece of butter size small egg. Beat 
the whole together thoroughly, bake half an hour in 
moderate oven, the same as a custard. 

This omelette should be eaten as soon as baked, as 
it falls soon after leaving the oven. Bake to a golden 
brown and send to table in same dish it is baked in. 



EGGS. 323 

PLAIN OMELETTE. 

Tested. 
Beat separately the yolks and whites of eight eggs 
until very light. Then mix them together thoroughly, 
add a little salt and white pepper, and one tablespoon- 
ful of cream. Heat the omelette pan^ put a good sized 
piece of butter in, and^ when it has become boiling 
hot^ pour in the eggs. Slightly shake the pan until 
the eggs begin to stiffen. When sufficiently brown, 
fold double and serve at once. When an omelette 
stands, it becomes heavy. 

SPANISH OMELETTE. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 
Take one teaspoonful of chopped onion and one 
tablespoonful of green peper. Be sure both are chop- 
ped very fine and cook them until they are a delicate 
brown. Scald and remove the skins of three tomatoes, 
cut up and add to the mixture. Cook all for ten min- 
utes, or until the tomatoes are done. Break six eggs 
in a bowl, beat them well and season. Mix in about 
one-half of the tomato, pepper, and onion. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter in an omelette pan and let it 
come to a boil. Put in the egg mixture; and when 
it begins to set, put in vegetables. Turn and serve. 

SPANISH OMELETTE. 

Kyrle Bellew. 
The omelet Espanol is constructed as follows : Make 
a sauce of one tablespoon of butter and the same of 
browned flour in a deep frying pan. When piping hot, 
stir in a cup of canned tomato, half a cup of mush- 
rooms, sliced fine, and the same quantity of minced 
ham. Season with red pepper, onion juice and salt. 



324 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Let it simmer about eight minutes, then stir in four 
beaten eggs. Stir carefully as it thickens, and when 
eggs are set, serve on buttered toast. 

FISH OMSIiETTB. 

Contributed. 

Make about a half pint of white roux, add a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg, twelve shelled and 
cooked shrimps; season with salt and pepper; let it 
cook for two or three minutes, stirring all the time, 
then add half of a green sweet pepper, chopped fine, 
and cook for one minute. Make an omelet of six eggs; 
when brown, turn up and fill with this mixture. Serve 
at once on a hot platter. 

FRIZZLED BEEF AND EGOS. 

Contributed. 

To every half pound of chipped beef allow half a 
pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour. Put the butter into a frying- 
pan; when hot add the beef and stir for about two 
minutes, or until the butter begins to brown, then 
dredge in the flour. Stir well, add the milk and a lit- 
tle pepper, and just before taking from the fire whip 
in two well-beaten eggs. 

HAM OMELET. 

Contributed. 

Make an omelet in the usual way; pour into an 
omelet pan and before the egg sets sprinkle over the 
top one teacupful of finely minced, cold, cooked ham. 



EGGS. 325 

RUM OMELETTE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

To two eggs, beaten thoroughly with two ounces of 
sugar, add one glass of Jamaica rum. Melt four 
ounces of butter in a saucepan and pour in the egg 
mixture. Stir on the fire and cook. When done, roll 
the omelette, turn it on a dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and send to the table. Have a glass of Jamaica 
rum at hand, pour it on each side of the dish, apply a 
lighted match, and serve when the alcohol has almost 
burned itself out. 

EGOS A LA BECHAMEL. 

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. 

Six eggs, one tablespoon flour, one gill cream, one 
gill white or veal stock, yolk of one egg; boil the eggs 
fifteen minutes, while tiiey are boiling prepare the 
sauce as follows: Melt the butter in a frying pan,- 
being careful not to brown it, add to it the flour, mix 
until smooth, add the stock and cream, and stir con- 
stantly until it boils, add salt and pepper and stand it 
over the kettle to keep warm. Shell the eggs, cut the 
whites into thin shreds, cut the yolks into tiny 
squares, then pile them in the center of a shallow, 
heated dish, and arrange the whites around them. 
Oive the sauce a stir and pour it around the eggs and 
serve. 

BAKED EQOS. 

Mrs. Walter Jones. 

Break eight eggs into a buttered dish, season with 
pepper and salt, one teaspoon of butter, three table- 
spoons of cream. Bake from eight to ten minutes. 
Serve very hot. 



326 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

DEVILED EOGS. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 

Take twelve eggs, one teaspoonful of French mus- 
tard, two tablespoon! uls of cold tongue chopped fine, 
one tablespoonful of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and salt and red pepper to taste. Boil the 
eggs fifteen minutes and place them in cold water; 
this prevents them from turning dark. Take off the 
shells, cut lengthwise, and remove the yolks, being 
careful not to break the white. Bub the yolks to a 
smooth paste with the mustard and oil, then add the 
chopped tongue, salt, and red pepper. Mix thorough- 
ly, fill the hollowed whites with this mixture, and 
serve on a bed of watercress or salad. 

SHIRRED EQOS. 

Marion Harland. 

Butter small ''nappies*^ and drop an egg carefully 
into each, taking care not to break the yolk. Set the 
nappies in a pan of boiling water on the range, and 
cook until the white is set. Put on each egg a bit of 
butter, and a dash each of pepper and salt. Serve at 
once. 

EGG TIKBALE. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Break six eggs in a bowl, season with salt and white 
pepper, whip until very light, add one gill of cream, 
and pour in small buttered timbale moulds. Place the 
mould in a pan of water and then in an oven, and poach 
the eggs until firm. Invert the moulds on hot plat- 
ter, garnish with parsley, and serve with B6chamel 
sauce. 



HOT BREADS. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

The dishes in which the South excels and which may 
be called distinctive to that section^ are those made 
of corn-meal^ of gumbo or okra^ and those seasoned 
with sassafras powder or twigs. The com-meal used 
in the South is white and coarse-grained (it is called 
there water-ground), and gives quite a different result 
from that which is finer in grain and yellow in color, 
which is usually sold at the North. The hoe used for 
baking corn-cakes is an article made for the purpose, 
and not the garden implement usually associated with 
the name. 

PONE. 

Mrs, E, M. Johnson. 
Sift a quart of white corn-meal, add a teaspoonf ul of 
salt; pour on enough cold water to make a mixture 
which will squeeze easily through the fingers. Work 
it to a soft dough. Mold it into oblong cakes an inch 
thick at the ends, and a little thicker in the center. 
Slap them down on the pan, and press them a little. 
These cakes, they say, must show the marks of the 
fingers. The pan must be hot, and sprinkled with the 
bran sifted from the meal. Bake in a hot oven for 
about twenty minutes. 

HOE-OAKE. 

Mrs. E. M. Johnson. 
Use for these cakes, if possible, coarse water-ground 
white meal. Add to a quart of meal a teaspoonful of 
salt; pour over it enough boiling water to make it a 



328 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

soft dough; add also a little milk to make it brown bet- 
ter. Let it stand an hour or longer, then work it to- 
gether with the hand. Form it into little cakes an inch 
thick, and bake on a greased griddle till browned on 
both sides. Serve very hot. They are split and spread 
with butter when eaten. 

KENTUCKY CORN DODQERS. 

Mrs. E. M. Johnson, 
Mix a teaspoonful of salt with a cupful of white 
corn-meal. Scald it with just enough boiling water 
to dampen it; then add enough cold milk to enable you 
to mold it. Stir it well together, and form it into 
cakes three-quarters of an inch thick in the middle and 
oblong in shape. Use a tablespoonful of dough for 
each cake. Bake them on a greased pan in a hot oven 
for twenty-five minutes. 

liARTLAND BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Mrs. E. M. Johnson. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt and tablespoonful of but- 
ter to a quart of flour. Bub them together, then add 
a cupful of milk, and, if necessary, a little water, 
making a stiff dough. Place the dough on a firm table 
or block, and beat it with a mallet or rolling-pin for 
fully half an hour, or until it becomes brittle. Spread it 
half an inch thick; cut it into small circles, and prick 
each one with a fork. Bake them in a hot oven about 
twenty minutes. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mrs, T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Take two eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of sweet milk, one cupful of sour milk, a pinch of salt, 
one teaspoonful of baking soda (scant), one and one* 



HOT BREADS. 329 



half cupfnls of yellow Indian meal and one-half cup- 
ful of flour; pour the mixture into a spider containing 
two tablespoons melted butter and pour into the 
middle^ wiliiout stirrings one cupful of cold sweet milk. 
Bake in hot oven half an hour. 

VIRGINIA RICE CORN PONE. 

Mrs. Edlow Harrison. 
Two eggs, one-half cup corn-meal (yellow), one ta- 
blespoonful cooled rice, butter half the size of an egg, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, one cup milk, pinch of 
salt. Divide meal, scald half with water hot enough 
to mix, then add butter and salt, beat eggs, stir in the 
rice, add the milk, lastly mix baking powder in dry 
meal and stir all together. Have the dish hot, with a 
little melted butter before pouring in batter; bake half 
an hour. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Elgin M. McBumey. 

One-quarter cup of sugar, two large tablespoonfuld 
of butter, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Cream butter, eggs 
and sugar together. Add one coffee cup of yellow meal 
and one coffee cup of wheat flour, sifted; and one cup 
of milk. Bake twenty minutes. 

OORN BREAD. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey. 
One cupful of flour, three-fourths cupful of com- 
meal, one cup of milk, two eggs, piece of butter (size 
of an egg), pinch of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Mix thoroughly the dry ingredients 
before adding milk and eggs; bake twenty minutes in 
hot oven. 



330 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CORN DODOEBS. 

Mrs. C. W, Cropper. 
One bowl of Indian meal — Bcald it — ^three tablespoon- 
fids molasses^ one tablespoonf ul flonr, two eggs. Drop 
off the end of a spoon (pieces the size of a wdnut) and 
fry in hot fat, same as crullers. 

POPOVERS. 

Table Talk. 
Break three eggs in a bowl and with a fork beat 
them just enough to barely mix and break their string- 
iness, add one pint of milk and stir. In a second bowl 
mix together one pint of sifted flour and a half tea- 
spoonful of salt To the dry mixture add a portion 
of the liquid, a little at a time, stirring until sufficient 
has been added to make a batter. Beat hard until the 
batter is smooth, then gradually add the remainder of 
the liquid and strain the now very thin batter. Have 
deep earthen cups or gem pans well greased. Fill them 
nearly full with the liquid, then place in a slow oven. 
Bake fully fifty minutes. If the oven is too hot at first 
they will puff up before the sides are sufficiently stif- 
fened and as a consequence coUapse. When done they 
should be more than twice their first size, quite hollow 
and light as a feather when lifted in the hand. 

POPOVERS. 

Mrs. James Fleming. 
One cup milk, two eggs, a pinch of salt, flour enough 
to make a very thin batter. Bake in cup tins in a 
quick oven. 

SALLY-LUNN. 

Mrs. Ulamor Allen. 
One tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, two eggs, mix well together, one-half cup milk 



HOT BREADS. 331 



(sweet), pinch of salt, two teaspoonf uls of Boyal bak- 
ing powder in one and one-half cups of floor. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

8ALLT-LUNN. 

Mertie, Mrs. Gould's Cook. 



CORRECTIONS. 



Pace 331— Sally Lunn, by Mrs. Gould's cook. One-half cut> of butter, one^ 
half cup of sugar ghould be used, and not the com meal and 
bofliug water giveu In recipe. Southern Beaten Biscuits, by 
Mrs. Walter H. Jones. Bhould rmd one teacupful of cold water, 
not one teaspoonful. Batter Bread, by Mrs. Walter H. Jones, 
$hould read while the meal is cooling, not cooking. 

Page 339— Griddle Cakes, by Miss Flanagan. To the ingredients given in 
recipe, add gradually sufficient milk to make a thin batter. 

USB ROYAL BAKING POWDER. 



pint of buttermilk and one-half teaspoon of soda. 
Scald the meal, beat two eggs very light. While the 
meal is cooking, stir in buttermilk, soda and eggs. 
Bake in deep dish in a steady oven. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Miss Gladys Linn. 

One quart flour, one and a half teaspoons salt, two 
teaspoons baking powder, mix together and then sift, 
then add two tablespoons lard, about a cup and a half 



330 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CORN DODQEBS. 

Mrs. C. W. Cropper. 
One bowl of Indian meal — scald it — ^three tablespoon- 
fuls molasses^ one tablespoonful flour^ two eggs. Drop 
off the end of a spoon (pieces the size of a walnut) and 




end light as a feather when lifted in the hand. 



POPOVEES. 

Mrs. James Fleming. 
One cup milk, two eggs, a pinch of salt, flour enough 
to make a very thin batter. Bake in cup tins in a 
quick oven. 

SALLY-LUNN. 

Mrs. Ulamor Allen. 
One tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, two eggs, mix well together, one-half cup milk 



HOT BREADS. 331 



(sweet), pinch of salt, two teaspoonfuls of Royal bak- 
ing powder in one and one-half cups of flour. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

SALLY-LUNN. 

Mertie, Mrs. Gould's Cook. 

One pint of com-meal, one pint boiling water, one 
cup of milk, three eggs, two and one-half cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, mixed in flour. 
Mix butter and sugar and yolk of egg together, then 
add milk, then flour, and lastly add white of eggs 
beaten light. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Use wooden spoon in mixing. 

SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Walter H. Jones. 

One quart of flour, one rounded tablespoon of lard, 
one teaspoon of cold water, one teaspoon of salt. 
Work the lard and salt into the flour, then add the 
water, knead very thoroughly, beat until very smooth. 

BATTER BREAD. 

Mrs. Walter H. Jones. 

One pint of corn-meal, one pint boiling water, one 
pint of buttermilk and one-half teaspoon of soda. 
Scald the meal, beat two eggs very light. While the 
meal is cooking, stir in buttermilk, soda and eggs. 
Bake in deep dish in a steady oven. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Miss Gladys Linn. 

One quart flour, one and a half teaspoons salt, two 
teaspoons baking powder, mix together and then sift, 
then add two tablespoons lard, about a cup and a half 



332 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

of milk> knead until well mixed^ then roll and bake 
about twenty minutes. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Miss Stella Flanagan, 
Four eupa flour^ four teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half cup lard, one teaspoon sugar, a scant teaspoon salt, 
and ooe and a half cups of milk. 

ROLLS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Mrs. Grace Marshall, 
One quart of flour, two eggs, one-half tablespoon 
butter, one-half tablespoon lard, two teaspoons salt, 
one-half yeast cake, one pint, milk, one tablespoon 
sugar. Sift flour, scald the milk and melt the butter 
and lard in it; beat the eggs light and stir into the 
milk. Mix this in the flour until smooth, then add the 
yeast, which has been previously dissolved in luke 
warm water. Let stand covered into light, roll and 
let rise again and bake in a quick oven from ten to 
flf teen minutes. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Mrs, Oarret Van Home, 
One tablespoon (small) lard, one tablespoon (small) 
butter, two tablespoons (large) of yellow meal, one- 
half teaspoon of salt, two cups of milk, two cups of flour 
sifted with two teaspoons of baking powder; bake 
quickly. This will make twenty muffins. 

CORN PUDDING FOR BREAKFAST. 

Mrs. W. S. Gould, New York, 
Twelve large ears of corn, grated, one quart milk, 
three eggs, whites and yolks beaten, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, a little salt Bakt 
four hours. 



HOT BREADS. 333 



BREAKFAST PUFFS 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 

One pint of milk^ one quart of flour^ five teaspoons 
of baking powder, pinch of salt, two eggs, rubbed 
with a tablespoon of butter, and three tablespoons of 
sugar. 

BREAKFAST VANITIES. 

Mrs. S. E. Anness. 

One pint flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful Eoyal baking powder. Mix stiflE 
enough with milk to roll. Cut in thin squares with 
knife or wheel and drop into boiling lard. Shake ket- 
tle gently and when puffed up turn to brown on other 
side. Drain on paper. Serve with maple syrup. 

MRS. KATE smith's FEDERAL LOAF. 

Mrs. C. W. Croppen. 

One quart flour, three eggs beaten very light, yolks 
and whites separately, one pint milk, one tablespoon- 
f ul butter (or lard), one teacup yeast. Make and let 
rise once in pound cake tins. Add three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar to the eggs. Make up at noon for an early 
supper. 

HOT MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Wm. Mattocks. 

One large cup flour, sifted with a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and a scant one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Beat together one egg and a cup of one-half milk and 
one-half water, a teaspoonful of sugar, a large table- 
spoonful of melted butter, then add flour. Bake in 
gem pans in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 



334 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

KUFFINS. 

Mrs. William C. Wescott. 
One-half cup of sugar to which add two tablespoons 
of melted butter and one egg. Beat well, then add one 
cup of milk and about two cups of flour and two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. 

Mrs. William C. Wescott 
One cup sugar, two large tablespoons of melted but- 
ter, two eggs, one cup milk, one cup of corn-meal, one 
cup of flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking pow- 
der and pinch of salt. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs, Howes, Roselle, N. J. 
Two cups of graham flour, one cup sweet milk, one- 
third cup of sugar, one egg, butter size of an egg, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in rings, twenty or 
thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs, Thomas, Boston, Pa. 
One pint sour cream, two eggs, beaten lightly to- 
gether, salt to taste, flour to thicken. Bake on grid- 
dle in muffin rings. Bake half before turning. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Miss Gray, New York. 
One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, two 
lumps of sugar, teaspoonful of salt, one yeast cake. 
The milk, butter and sugar boiled together and allow- 
ed to cool. When cool mix in yeast cake with a silver 
knife, then add whites of two eggs, beaten to atiff 
froth, mould and bake. 



HOT BREADS. 335 



PABKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs, George Lowther, New York. 

Put two quarts of sifted flour in a bowl, add two 
Icivel teaspoonfuls of salt. Rub in with the fingers two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, or lard. Dissolve one-half of 
a yeast-cake in one cupful of warm water. Scald one 
pint of milk; take it from the fire and add one-third 
of a cupful of sugar. When the milk is cool, mix the 
diPKolved yeast with it. Make a hollow in the center of 
the flour and pour in the liquid. Sprinkle a little flour 
over the top. Cover the bowl with a cloth, then with 
a board or tin cover. Then let this stand five hours; 
then mix it thoroughly and knead it well. Cover and 
let rise overnight or for six hours. Then toss it on a 
board, knead it a little, roll the dough to one-half 
inch thickness. Lift the dough several times, that it 
may shrink. Cut with an oval cutter. Put small bits 
of butter on one end and fold the other end over it. 
Place them on a buttered pan and let stand until al- 
most double in size. Bake in quick oven twenty min- 
utes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mrs. William F. Cook. 

One quart of milk, one teacup of yeast and one 
quart and a pint of flour. When sponge is light work 
in a well beaten egg and two tablespoonfuls of well 
beaten butter, with a teaspoonful of salt, half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Let this stand four or five hours, roll out into 
round cakes and fold over. Set them closely together 
in the baking pan; let them rise one hour, and just 



336 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

before putting them into the oven cut deeply across 
each roll with sharp knife. Bake half hour. 



RAISED BISCUIT. 

Mrs, C. W. Cropper, 

One quart sifted flour, one pint warm milk, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half cake of yeast, one tablespoonful of sugar. Put 
sugar and salt in the sifted flour, melt the butter in 
the milk, dissolve yeast in one-half cup of lukewarm 
water. Mix overnight. In the morning make into 
rolls, adding very little flour to prevent sticking to 
pastry board. 

ENGLISH SCONES. 

Table Talk, 

Rub thoroughly together one pound of flour, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
quarter of a pound of butter and two teaspoonf uls of 
baking powder. Add a half cupful of dried currants 
or seedless raisins. Beat one egg, add a half cupful 
of milk and stir into the mixture, adding more milk 
as necessary to make a soft dough. Turn out on a well 
floured board, knead for a moment, then roll out a 
half -inch thick. Cut into rounds the size of a dinner 
plate, lay on flat greased pans and with a sharp knife 
dipped in flour cut crosswise into quarters, being 
careful not to go quite through to the pan. Brush 
with milk in which a little sugar has been dissolved, 
and bake in a quick oven. Pull the four sections 
apart, break each piece partially open, lay in a piece 
of butter, press together and serve at once. 



HOT BREADS. 337 



ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

Table Talk. 
English muffins are greatly enjoyed and a double 
quantity may be made at one time, part being saved 
to figure at a subsequent meal as crumpets. Scald a 
pint of milk and dissolve in it one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, and two-thirds of 
a teaspoonful of salt. When cooled add one-half 
of a cake of yeast dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of warm water, then sift in sufficient flour to make a 
thin drop batter. Beat hard and set aside until very 
light. Have ready a hot greased griddle and greased 
muffin rings. Stand the rings on the griddle and half 
fill them with the batter, dipping it out carefully to 
preserve its lightness. Draw a little to one side that 
the muffins may rise and brown slowly. When well 
colored turn, slip off the rings, and let brown on the 
other side. When as many as needed are baked thin 
the remainder of the batter with cool milk until it 
will just pour in a heavy stream, then cover and set 
away in a rather cool place. Bring into the kitchen a 
couple or hours before it is to be used, that it may be 
quite light ; if any acidity is detected stir in a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of Boda dissolved in a little warm 
water. 

CRUMPETS. 

Table Talk. 
Crumpet rings are larger than those for muf- 
fins. Heat the griddle as before. Lay on it the greas- 
ed rings, half fill them and cook very slowly. They 
should be quite coarse in texture and but one side is 
browned. To serve a second time toast and butter 
before sending to the table. 



338 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

PULLED BBEAD. 

Table Talk. 
Pulled bread is excellent for lunch or Sunday sup- 
per or as an addition to the invalid's tray. Take a 
loaf just out of the oven. With a very sharp knife 
remove the crust, then with two forks pull the inte- 
rior in long strips. Lay on a shallow pan and place in 
a moderate oven until golden brown all through. 

THIN COKN BREAD. 

Table Talk, 
) A plateful of thin, crispy corn bread makes an ap- 
petizing breakfast dish. Over a pint of fine yellow 
corn-meal pour just enough boiling water to moisten 
thoroughly, then cover and let stand, if possible, for 
half an hour. Add a scant teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter or lard and three well 
beaten eggs. Beat in one cupful of flour, then add 
gradually as much sweet milk as is needed to give a 
thin drop batter. Beat hard, stir in two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and pour into shallow, well greased 
pans. Bake in a hot oven for from fifteen to twenty- 
five minutes, according to thickness, remembering al- 
ways that the thinner it is the better. 

WAFFLES. 

Sarah, Mrs. Oould's Cook. 

One quart of sweet milk, stir in flour, making the 
batter about as for cake, two eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, then put together and put into bat- 
ter, one teaspoon, just level, of salt, one tablespoon of 
Royal Baking powder and stir just a little. 



HOT BREADS. 339 



WAFFLES. 

Mrs. Oeorge Parks, Rye, N. Y. 

One quart thick cream, one pint milk, flour to make 
a thick batter, one-half teaspoon baking powder, one- 
quarter teaspoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, yolks of six 
eggs. Mix well, then add the beaten whites of six 
eggs. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. H. C. White, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

One quart sour milk, one quart flour, three eggs, 
one-half of milk in beaten egg, the other half put on 
fire and warm, then add one heaping teaspoon baking 
soda in warm milk, salt to taste. This recipe can be 
divided if too large. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Miss Davidson, New Brunswick, N. J. 

Three cups of sifted flour, two eggs, well beaten, a 
little salt, one-half tablespoon of melted butter, three 
teaspoons baking powder, milk to make batter thin or 
thick as you like them. 

OKIDDLE CAKES. 

Miss Stella Flannagan. 

Two heaping cups of flour, four heaping teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt and one-half 
.teaspoonful of sugar. 

ADIRONDACK GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Miss Potter, Portcliester, N. Y. 

One teaspoonful of sugar, one quart sour milk, one 
teaspoon salt, sifted flour enough to make a rather stiff 
batter. Mix them and let stand overnight. Next morn- 



340 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ing stir in one teaspooninl of soda, dissolyed in wann 
water and two well beaten eggs; the batter should 
foam like fresh yeast. 

RICB GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Baird, Yankers, N. Y. 

One coffeecnp of boiled rice^ one pint of milk, one 
^gSf two heaping teaspoons of Boyal baking powder, 
a little salt, fionr enough to make a thin batter. 

OEBMAN PANCAKES. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Two eggs beaten separately, whites to a stiff foam, 
two cups of sifted flour, a very little salt. Make a 
thin batter with sweet milk. Put the whites in the 
last thing. Fry in a large frying pan. Put in butter 
to fry them, or half butter and lard. 

KBS. GROVEB CLEVELAND'S BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. C. W. Cropper. 

One bowl Indian meal, one bowl rye flour, one bowl 
sour milk, one large cup molasses, one teaspoonful 
soda, one tablespoonful salt. Steam two and one-half 
hours and bake from twenty minutes to one*half hour, 
depending upon heat of oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Miss Myra S. Barlow. 

One quart of sour milk, or buttermilk, one cup of 
molasses (not syrup), one small tablespoon of soda, or 
saleratus, one teaspoonful of salt, graham flour, and 
half cup of corn-meal. Place the sour milk in a large 
bowl, stir in the molasses. Dissolve the soda in a little 
warm water and add. Lastly stir in sufiicient graham 



HOT BREADS. 341 



flonr to make a batter stifE enough for the spoon to 
stand upright in. The meal can be omitted, if not at 
hand, but is considered a great improvement. 

Bake one hour in a moderate oven, in one large, 
or two small pans. 

BOSTON BROWN BRE^D. 

Excellent, Rye, N. Y. 

One cupful of flour, two cupfuls of Indian meal, 
three cupfuls rye flour, one teaspoon salt. Sift well 
together, then add two cupfuls of water, two cupfuls 
of milk, one-half cupful of molasses, one teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in half cupful of milk. Mix all' to- 
gether, put into greased tins, and steam five hours. 

INDIAN MEAL BBEAD. 

Mrs. W. S. Gould, New YorJc. 

Three cups Indian meal, one cup molasses, one cup 
wheat flour, one pint sweet milk, one small teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a little hot water and stirred in 
the molasses. Steam two and one-half hours. 

INDIAN BBEAD. 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 

Make a sponge at night with one pint of water, 
wheat flour and yeast. In the morning put one pint of 
boiling water in a sauce pan and stir thick with In- 
dian meal. When cool, add one small cup of molas- 
ses, piece of butter size of an egg, and salt. Add a 
pinch of soda to the sponge and mix with the Indian 
meal. Eoiead with wheat flour same as other bread, 
and put in pans to rise. Bake when very light. It 
makes two large loaves. 



342 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

BYE BREAD. 

Mrs, W. A. Durrie. 

To a pint of thin milk^ add a tablespoon of butter^ 
a heaping tablespoon of light brown sugar^ and a tea- 
spoon of salt. Scald this and when lukewarm add a 
little more than half a yeast cake^ dissolved in tepid 
water^ and enough wheat flour to make thick batter. 
Beat thoroughly^ cover, and let stand in warm place 
till light. Then add rye flour to make a soft dough, 
that you can knead lightly. Put into pan and let stand 
until it doubles in bulk. Bake in slow oven one hour 
and a half. It is better to have the oven quite hot 
the first ten minutes, then cool it without chilling the 
bread. 

DUTCH DRIED BISCUIT. 

Mrs, W. p. Watson, 

One quart of milk, three-fourths pound of butter, 
four eggs, flour to knead soft enough to roll out. Mix 
well together. Allow to rise and become very light. 
Then make into biscuits and allow to rise the second 
time, placing one on the other, two deep, with a lit- 
tle butter spread between. When baked, separate them. 
Place them in a pan in a moderate warm oven and dry 
hard. 

BREAD. 

Mrs. Frank Fletcher, Detroit, Mich, 

To three large potatoes, one scoop of ordinary flour, 
one tablespoon of lard, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon sugar. Dissolve a yeast cake in a little warm 
water and milk. Save the potato water pretty warm 
and make a thin batter. Make a stiff sponge at night, 
using patent flour. A little salt. 



SANDWICHES. 



CHAPEER XIX 

BREAD FOR SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenziey Hilly Boston. 
As a rule, bread for sandwiches should be twenty- 
four hours old; but fresh bread, which is more pliable 
than stale, is better adapted to this use when the sand- 
wiches are to take the form of rolls or folds. When stale 
bread is used for rolls or folds, they must be ribbon tied ; 
or tiny Japanese toothpicks may be made to keep them 
in shape. The bread may be yeast or peptic bread. It 
may be white or brown. It is not even essential that the 
two bits of bread be of the same kind: Quaker, rice, 
whole-wheat, rye or graham bread is interchangeable 
with white or brown bread. After selecting your loaf or 
loaves, slice in even quarter-inch slices; then cut in 
squares, triangles or fingers, or stamp with a round or 
fanciful shaped cutter. Cutter can be obtained in 
heart, club, diamond and spade shape, also in racquet 
shape. Do not spread butter or filling upon the bread 
before it is cut from the loaf and into shape. When so 
treated, the butter or filling on the extreme edge of the 
bread is liable to soil the fingers or gloves that come in 
contact with it. Cream the butter, using a small wooden 
spoon for the purpose, and then it can be spread upon 
the most delicate bread without crumbling. 

CAVIAR SANDWICHES. 

Mrs, T. K. Egbert, New York. 
A box of caviar, beaten to a paste, with lemon juice 
and olive oil, using a little at a time, alternately spread 
on bread and sprinkle over them fine chopped olives. 



344 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



OUVE AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Mrs. 0. K. Dickinson. 

Chop olives into very Bmall pieces. Beat cream cheoe 
with fork until very soft Spread cream cheese on thin 
slices of rye bread; spread olives on cheese. 

NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Mrs. 0. K. Dickinson. 

Chop English walnuts into small pieces. Beat cream 
cheese with fork until soft. Spread cheese on thin 
slices of rye bread ; spread nuts on cheese. 

WALNUT SANDWICHES, TO BE SERVED WITH SALAD. 

Mrs. Charles Oilchrist, Hoboken. 

Shell half a pound of English walnuts and put into 
a pint of boiling water, boil one minute. Drain and 
cover with stock, add a bay-leaf, a few celery tops and 
a slice of onion. Cook gently for twenty minutes, drain 
and skim, chop fine, add one-half teaspoonful of salt and 
a dash of cayenne. Spread between thin slices of but- 
tered bread. Cut in any shape preferred. 

CIIEESE-AND-ENQLISH-WALN UT SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

One-fourth pound of grated cheese, one-fourth pound 
of butter, one-fourth pound of English walnut meats 
sliced, salt and paprika to taste. 

Work the butter to a cream, add the seasonings and 
the grated cheese gradually; then mix in the nuts, which 
should be sliced very thin. Spread the mixture upon 
bits of bread and press together in pairs. Particularly 
good when made of brown bread and served with a 
simple vegetable. 



SANDWICHES. 345 

CHIOKEN SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Charles OxLchrisi. 
Chop cold^ cooked chicken very fine. Pound until 
smooth^ adding gradually enough thick^ sweet cream to 
make a paste. To each pint add a teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of pepper^ a teaspoonful of onion and a table- 
spoon of lemon juice. This may be made in the early 
part of the day and placed in a cold place^ and later 
spread on rounds or squares of bread. 

CHOPPED CHICKEN SANDWICH. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book^ 
Take the white meat of chicken, chop it very fine, and 
mix it with mayonnaise dressing and a few olives chop- 
ped very fine. Spread the mixture between evenly sliced 
pieces of buttered bread. Use enough mayonnaise to 
make a chicken paste. 

CHICKEN AND ALMOND SANDWICH. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 
Chop the white meat of a chickwi very fine and add 
half a pound of finely chopped almonds, two teaspoons 
of salt, one gill of sweet, thick cream^ and a saltspoon 
of pepper. Mix these ingredients until you have a 
smootii paste. Whole-wheat bread is best for these sand- 
wiches. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 
Mince the white meat of a roast chicken and mix it 
with half a can of French mushrooms, chopped fine, and 
a half cupful of chopped English walnuts. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt, and moisten with melted 
butter. Put the mixture between slices of whole-wheat 
bread. 



346 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

TONOUE-AND-VEAL (OB OHICKEN) SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie Hill. 
Use a little less of the chopped tongue than of the 
other kind of meat, and one-half as much chopped cel- 
ery as meat. Mix with salad dressing. Spread one 
piece of bread with butter, the other with the mixture, 
and press together. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Four ounces from the breast of chicken (one-half a 
cup), four ounces of braised tongue, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of celery salt, a few grains of cayenne, one teaspoon- 
ful of anchovy paste, four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise 
or boiled dressing. 

Chop the meat and pound to a paste in a mortar ; add 
the seasonings and mix well. Remove the crust from a 
loaf of moist bread; cut in very thin slices, trim each 
slice into a rectangular shape, spread lightly with soft 
butter and then with the mixture. Roll the slices and 
tie them with ribbon. Omit the anchovy paste, if de- 
sired. 

SALADE^ SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine the white meat of a cooked chicken and 
pound to a paste in a mortar. Season to taste with salt, 
paprika, oil and lemon juice and spread upon thin bits 
of bread. Spread other bits of bread, corresponding in 
shape to the first, with butter; press into the butter En- 
glish walnuts, pecan nuts or almonds, blanched and 
sliced very thin. Press corresponding pieces together. 

HAM-AND-TONOUE SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie Hill, 
Chop two parts of cold tongue and one part of cold 
ham (one-fourth as much fat ham as lean) very fine; 



SANDWICHES. 347 



pound in a mortar, and season with paprika and a little 
mixed mustard. Spread butter on one piece of bread, 
the meat mixture on the other, and press the two pieces 
together. 

TONGUE FINGERS. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oilchristj Hoboken, 

Tongue fingers are made by chopping one-half pound 
of cold, cooked salt tongue very fine. Bub to a paste, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and two of lemon 
juice and a dash of cayenne and a few drops of onion 
juice. Spread the mixture between thin slices of but- 
tered bread, press lightly together, and cut in strips an 
inch wide. 

HAM-AND-EGG SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie HilL 

Chop the ham and poimd smooth in a mortar; pass 
the yolks of hard boiled eggs through a sieve; mix the 
yolks with an equal amount of mayonnaise dressing. 
Butter one piece of bread lightly and spread with the 
ham, spread the other piece with the egg and dressing, 
and press the two together. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Chop lean ham fine ; and beat into each cupful of the 
minced meat a tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful 
of vinegar, a saltspoonful of French mustard, six olives 
chopped fine, and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 
Work all to a paste and spread on thin slices of white 
bread. 



348 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



COBNED-BSEF SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie HUL 
Chop the cold meat very fine, using one-fourth of fat 
meat. Work into the meat French mustard, or any 
^^made" mustard, to taste, and prepare the sandwiches in 
the usual way. Boston brown-bread combines well with 
this preparation. 

BREAD SANDWICHES. 

Cut the bread, white, brown and graham, as thin as 
possible, and use four or five pieces in each sandwich, 
putting them together so that the colors will contrast 
Either butter or other filling is admissible. 

VERY NICE SANDWICHES. 

Miss Pomeroy, Baiavia, N, Y. 
Take equal quantities of cold boiled tongue and 
slightly cooked oysters (or the breast of cold boiled 
chicken). Chop them very fine, so fine, in fact, that 
you cannot distinguish the separate particles, add a 
good large half teaspoon of celery salt, a pinch of 
cayenne and four tablespoons of mayonaise dressing. 
When this is perfectly cold spread some thin slices of 
bread with butter, and then with this mixture. Do 
not prepare them till you are nearly ready to serve 
them. 

EOO AND CUCUMBEB. 

Mrs, Charles A, Oould, New York. 
Pass the yolks of three hard boiled eggs through a 
sieve and mix them well witli two ounces of fresh but- 
ter. When a soft paste is formed, add a little celery 
salt, pepper, nutmeg and a few drops of lemon juice 
and spread on buttered slices of thinly cut bread. Place 
some wafer-like slices of cucumber on the bread, then 



SANDWICHES. 349 



cloee the sandwiches^ and cut into any shape which 
may be desired. 

TOMATO. 

Mrs. Charles A. OovJd, New York. 

Beat two ounces of butter with a wooden spoon un- 
til it is quite white and creamy, then add half a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a small teaspoonful 
of curry-powder, and a little celery salt; beat again for 
a few minutes, then spread the butter thickly on some 
rounds of bread. Eemove the skin from some ripe to- 
matoes and cut them into thin slices (the latter should 
be just a little smaller than the bread), and leave them 
on a soft cloth for a short time before they are re- 
quired, in order that the superfluous moisture may be 
drawn from them. Then place one or more slices on 
half the number of pieces of cut bread, and place the 
remaining pieces on the top to form the sandwiches. 

CHICKEN MAYONNAISE. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oould, New York. 

Cut some cooked chicken (the white meat only) into 
small dice-shaped pieces and add a small proportion of 
pickled gherkin, coarsely minced, and cover lightly 
with some thick mayonnaise dressing, which has been 
mixed with a small quantity of finely minced parsley. 
Split and butter some small round rolls (removing most 
of the soft part) and fill them with the prepared chick- 
en, then close them securely. These are particularly 
suitable for an out-door luncheon, and may be varied 
in many ways — ^f or instance, use beef in place of chick- 
en; omit the pickled gherkin, and instead line the 
buttered rolls with fresh watercress leaves, or small 
cress from which the stalks have been removed. 



350 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

TONGUE AND PATE DE FOIE GRAB. 

Mrs. Charles A. Gould, New York. 
Pass the required quantity of cooked tongue through 
a fine mincer, then mix it with rather less than an 
equal quantity of butter; season it with salt and pepper 
and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread an equal num- 
ber of thin slices of bread and butter with the tongue 
paste and pate de f oie gras ; then sandwich the tongue 
and foie gras together and stamp out with a round or 
leaf -shaped cutter of suitable size. 

SARDINE. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oould, New York, 
Beat two ounces of butter until it is quite soft, then 
add a little salt, nutmeg, pepper, two teaspoonfuls of 
tomato catsup and a few drops of lemon juice. Re- 
move the skin and backbone from three sardines, and 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with the prepared 
butter. Pass the mixture through a wire sieve and 
spread it rather thickly on finger-shaped pieces of but- 
tered brown bread, and make into sandwiches with a 
little cress between the pieces of bread. 

SANDWICHES. 

Mrs, Elmer S. Forbes. 

A new and good filling is made from tender celery, 
chopped fine, and set on ice. Just before using mix 
with grated cheese and whipped cream. 

Chop the canned red peppers and olives, using two 
parts of peppers to one of olives. Mix with stiff may- 
onnaise and spread on thin white bread. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Rowland, Brooklyn. 
Take twenty-four anchovies from oil, remove the 
bones, cut them into strips about one inch long. Make 



SANDWICHES. 351 



a paste from two ounces of capers and a spray of pars- 
ley, and add to it a generous dash of cayenne pepper, 
a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, two tablespoons of 
tarragon, a tablespoonful of oil, the yolks of four hard- 
boiled eggs, and a half a teaspoon of salt. When the 
paste is smooth, chop the whites of the eggs fine; but- 
ter very thin slices of graham bread, that have the 
crust trimmed away, and spread them with the paste. 
On half of the slices thus prepared, spread the ancho- 
vies and scatter on them the whites of eggs; lay the 
remaining slices on these, and press down. With a 
sharp knife carefully cut the sandwiches into smaller 
ones, making them square or diamond shape, as you 
choose. 

CHESTNUT SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn. 
These are made by boiling the nuts until tender, 
then chilling and pounding to a smooth paste; season 
with mayonnaise, adding a slight bprinkling of grated 
cheese. Chestnuts, combined with celery and a French 
dressing, or a mixture of chestnuts, celery and apple, 
covered with mayonnaise. 

OYSTER SANDWICH FILLING. 

Table Talk. 
»From a solid pint of raw oysters remove the tough 
muscle in each and put them through a food chopper, 
using the fine cutter. Add one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of white pep- 
per and two drops of tabasco. Place in a saucepan, add 
three tablespoonfuls of cracker dust and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; stir and heat until steaming. Add 
the yolks of two eggs beaten with one-half of a cupful of 
rich cream, and stir until the mixture thickens like a 



362 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

thick drop batter; if quite liquid add a little more 
cracker dust. Take from the fire, add ten drops of 
lemon juice and more seasoning if desired; then set 
aside. Use cold. 

DINKEY SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. William Mattocks. 
Cut thin slices of German rye bread, spread with 
prepared mustard; mash sardines, flavor with lemon 
juice, and grated Spanish onion; spread on bread. 
Spread bread first with butter if desired. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Tested. 
To three parts of the green of Roquefort cheese use 
one part of butter, a little olive oil, pepper, a little 
salt, and a dash of red pepper. Mix all into a paste and 
spread on thin slices of buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Tested. 
Pound one-quarter of a pound of American cheese 
Id a mortar with two ounces of butter and one tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard. When thoroughly blended, 
add a little tarragon vinegar. Spread on thin slices of 
bread and it is ready to serve. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

Tested. 
Season watercress with salt, pepper, and a few drops 
of vinegar, and chop coarsely. Mix with creamy 
cottage cheese and spread on tKinly-sliced white bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Howlandy Brooklyn. 
One jar of Royal cheese ; two tablespoons mayonnaise 
dressing, creamed with cheese; two green peppers, two 



SANDWICHES. 353 



pieces of celery chopped fine; mix with the above and 
spread on bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Tested. 
Wipe the fish, skin, take out the backbone and rub 
to a smooth paste with a little butter and lemon juice. 
Add a dash of cayenne, or a few drops of Tabasco sauce, 
and spread between thin slices of brown bread. 

SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Contributed. 
Bemove the skin and bones from a can of salmon, 
shred with a silver fork and add the crumbled yolks of 
six hard-boiled eggs. Season to taste and add any good 
salad dressing. Spread on thin slices of brown bread. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Contributed. 
Take equal parts of large and stuflfed olives. Mince 
fine, mix with a little thick mayonnaise, and spread 
on thin slices of buttered bread. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Contributed. 
Take finely-chopped chicken or veal, season with 
salt, pepper and a dash of onion juice. Add a little 
mayonnaise, and spread the mixture on thin slices of 
bread lined with crisp lettuce leaves. 

LETTUCE AND MAYONNAISE SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book, 
Season the yolks of seven hard-boiled eggs with 
salt and pepper; powder them, and then mix with 
enough mayonnaise to make a thin paste. Have slices 



364 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

of bread sparingly spread with the mayonnaise^ cover 
each one with some of the small leaves from the heart 
of the lettuce. Over the lettuce spread the egg mix- 
ture. Serve af^ soon as possible. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Miss Cawles, Philadelphia. 
Use cucumbers in which the seeds are quite small 
and soft. Pare them and cut in very thin slices with a 
sharp knife. Soak in slightly salted ice water for fiif- 
teen minutes^ then drain and dry on a soft cloth. Dip 
each slice into mayonnaise and arrange between thin 
slices of unbuttered bread, sprinkling witii a little salt. 
These sandwiches must be used soon after they are pre- 
pared. 

A TASTY SANDWICH. 

Miss Louise Edge. 
Chop cucumbers fine, add a little onion Juice with 
a dash of red pepper, and mix with mayonnaise. 

HARLEQUIN SANDWICHES. 

Boston brown or graham bread can be used with 
white bread for these; have all varieties baked the 
same size; remove the crust, slice each loaf length- 
wise of the loaf into one-half inch slices; spread each 
slice and lay alternate, white and brown together; 
press firmly together and cut into one-fourth inch 
slices. Now spread sandwich mixture on and 
press two of the ribbon slices together. A checker 
slice can be placed on top of the ribbon slice ; 
the checkers made by placing alternate slices of but- 
tered ribbon bread on top of each so every other slice 
will form checkers on the end ; then cut down and the 



SANDWICHES. 355 



checkers will form the slices. The checkers can be 
served on a plain slice of bread cut very thin, as they 
will fall into pieces unless they have a good founda- 
tion. 

HARLEQUIN SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie HilL 

Spread a bit of brown bread with butter and Prendi 
mustard ; and a bit of white bread, cut to fit the former, 
with butter and cheese creamed together. Finish as 
usual. 

BEET-AND-CaEAM-CIIEESK SANDWICHES. 

Spread one piece of .bread with cream cheese; the 
other, with beets that have been chopped very fine and 
seasoned with French dressing. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

Chop freshly roasted peanuuts very fine ; then pound 
them in a mortar until smooth; season with salt and 
moisten with thick cream. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

Miss Potter J Portchester, N. Y. 
Shell, skin and chop fine peanuts; melt butter enough 
to make a good paste and put in salt. Spread the 
bread very thin with mustard and then the peanut paste. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Boole. 
Slightly butter thin slices of bread; moisten fine- 
chopped olives with mayonnaise dressing and spread 
upon the buttered slices; spread other slices with 
Xeufchatel, or any cream cheese, and press together 
in pairs. 



356 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

MUSHROOM-AND-LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Saute the caps of half a pound of mushrooms in 
a little butter about five minutes, adding half a sliced 
onion if desired. Cover with highly seasoned, stock 
and let simmer until very tender; chop and press 
through a sieve, and, if very moist, reduce to the 
consistency of a thick puree. Add an equal quantity 
of lobster meat, pounded smooth in a mortar. Season 
to taste with salt, pepper, lemon juice and, if desired, 
tomato catsup. When cool use as any filling. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Contributed. 

Toast slices of bread a nice brown, and while hot 
spread with butter and put between the slices a lettuce 
leaf, some cold baked chicken cut in thin slices, a few 
chopped olives and pickles, some slices of hot crisp 
bacon, a layer of salad dressing, another lettuce leaf 
and the other slice of toast. 

These are very nice for Sunday evening supper. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

steamer Priscilla Style. 

Have ready four triangular pieces of toasted bread 
spread with mayonnaise dressing; cover two of these 
with lettuce, lay thin slices of -cold chicken (white 
meat) upon the lettuce, over this arrange slices of 
broiled breakfast bacon, then lettuce, and cover with 
the other triangles of toast spread with mayonnaise. 
Trim neatly, arrange on a plate, and garnish with 
heart leaves of lettuce dipped in mayonnaise. 



SANDWICHES. 357 



FIG SANDWICHES. 

Chop one-fourth of a pound of figs very fine, add one- 
fourth of a cup of water, and cook to a smooth paste; 
add also, one-third of a cup of almonds, blanched, chop- 
ped very fine and pounded to a paste with a little rose- 
water, also the juice of half a lemon. When cold 
spread the mixture upon lady-fingers or cakelets, white 
or yellow, press another above the mixture, and serve 
upon a handsome doylie-covered plate. Kaisins, dates, 
or marmalade may be used in the place of figs. The 
marmalade, of course, requires no cooking. Bread 
may be used in the place of the cake. 

FBENCH FBUIT SANDWICHES. 

Janet McKenzie Hill. 
Chop the fruit very fine; use a mixture of cherries, 
plums, pineapple and angelica root ; moisten with wine, 
orange or lemon juice. Use lady-fingers or bread for 
the covering. • If bread is used, spread lightly with 
butter; if cake be your choice, spread very lightly with 
marmalade. 

PUFF-PASTE SANDWICHES. 

Roll puff paste very thin (about one-eighth of an 
inch), cut in fanciful shapes and bake to a delicate 
brown; add chopped almonds to rich strawberry pre- 
serves, or peach marmalade, and spread the mixture 
between each two bits of pastry. 

PINEAPPLE SANDWICHES. 

One cup of pineapple juice and pulp, three-quarters 
of a cup of sugar, juice of half a lemon. Cook the 
pineapple, sugar and lemon juice until thick; let cool, 



358 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and spread upon lady-fingers or sponge drops. Press 
together in pairs and serve. 

CHEESE-AND-BAB-LE-DUC-CURRANT SANDWICHES. 

Spread wheat bread, prepared for sandwiches, with 
cream cheese ; put two or three currants and a little syr- 
up on each piece of bread, and press two pieces together. 
'ITiese may be varied by using sliced maraschino cherries. 
Either the currants or sliced cherries with a little of the 
syrup may be mixed with the cheese and then spread 
upon the bread. Bar-le-duc-currants are imported from 
France in tiny glasses. The seeds have been removed 
from the currants, which are cooked in honey. 

hunter's sandwich (SWITZERLAND.) 

Spread fresh bread, cut in thin slices, with fresh but- 
ter; over this spread a layer of Brie or other cream 
cheese, and over the cheese spread a layer of honey. 
Press two similarly shaped pieces together and serve at 
once. 

ONION SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. William Power, Rye, N. Y. 

Peel and chop fine one Spanish onion or two Bermuda 
onions, mix with mayonnaise, spread on very thin slices 
of bread, cut in any shape desired. Young green onions 
may be used in same way, and make delicious sand- 
wiches. 



DESSERTS. 



CHAPTER XX 
PUDDINGS. 

HUCKLEBEBRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
One cup of molasses, two cups of sifted flour, one 
teaspoonful of baking soda, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one quart of huckle- 
berries. Place in pans and bake one hour. Serve with 
hard or soft sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 
Mjjix Rjplln. FlnnnnfLn ^ 



CORRECTIONS, 



Page 359-.Huckleberry Pudding Sauce, by Miss Flanagan, •htmld read 
beat quickly, not heat quickly. 

Pages 377 and S92-Prench Charlotte and Biscuit Glac6. by Miss E. 8. 
Mecabe. not McCabe. 

Page 383-Ne88eIrode Pudding, by Mrs. Charles A. Greer. Rye N. Y. Use 
one and a half cups granulated sugar in custard. 

Pftge 38S-Coffe« Mousse, by Mrs, Dlctz. thould rmd set to cool, not cooK. 



360 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

harden and when firm turn out and Berve, surrounded 
with the following: 

Golden Sauce. — Beat the yolks of two eggs and place 
with a pint of milk in a double boiler. Stir this con- 
stantly until it just reaches the boiling point and thick- 
ens. Then add sugar and vanilla to taste, with a pinch 
of salt. This sauce should be served cold. 

FIQ PUDDING. 

Mrs, Samuel Drayton, 
One pound of figs, cut fine; one-half pound of cit- 
ron, cut fine; the inside of a five-cent loaf of baker's 
bread, crumbled; one-half pound of suet, chopped; one 
cup of sugar. Mix, add three well-beaten eggs, also 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves and allspice and one-half grated nutmeg. Moisten 
with about one-half cup of milk, boil three hours in 
covered brown bread tin. Serve with hard sauce, 
sprinkled on top with grated nutmeg. 

DATE PUDDING. 

Mrs, Hiram C, Bennett 
For steamed date pudding mix a cupful each of 
molasses and milk, a third of a cupful of melted butter, 
three cupfuls of fiour, a teaspoonful of soda, half a tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon, and a 
saltspoonful of salt Stir in one and a half cupfuls of 
chopped dates. Steam two hours and a half. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

Mrs, Henry L. Kellers, 
Boil together two-thirds cup sugar, and one-half cup 
water (simmer not boil hard). Pour hot syrup on 



DESSERTS. 361 

three well beaten eggs and put in double boUer for 
eight minutes longer stirring constantly, then stir un- 
til cool and flavor with sherry or vanilla. Whip one 
pint of cream and add to the cooled mixture. Pour 
in ice cream mould or the can of ice cream freezer and 
sprinkle some rolled macaroons on top. Pack in plenty 
of salt and ice, for four hours or more. When turned 
out on platter sprinkle some more macaroons on top 
and sides. Dry the macaroons out before rolling. 

ANGEL PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. J. Pratt. 
One pound English walnuts, nine ounces of dates, one 
cup powdered sugar, whites of five eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder, mixed with sugar. Chop nuts and 
dates coarsely, add sugar and whites of eggs. Bake 
in very moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with 
plenty of whipped cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Miss Rita Qray, New York. 
One-fourth pound of prunes, one-fourth pound of 
sugar, whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff foam. Strain 
prunes, add sugar and eggs. Bake in a slow oven 
half an hour. Serve with cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. E. B. Kiersted. 
Whites of five eggs, beaten stiff, two tablespoons 
of powdered sugar, one cup of well cooked prunes cut 
quite fine. Beat in whites of eggs lightly and bake 
20 minutes in a well buttered pudding dish. To be 
served hot, with whipped cream. 



362 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

Mrs. WiHiam Wescoit. 
One pound of prunes, four eggs (whites only), one 
cup of fine sugar. Boil prunes till soft, when cold 
put them through the colander. Beat thoroughly. Beat 
whites stiff and add sugar and beat well. Add it to 
the prunes and beat. Bake in oven 20 minutes. Serre 
cold with cream. 

DATE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs, J. Wm, McKelvey. 
Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and one cup- 
ful of English walnuts, quartered, and one cup of 
dates cut in half. Beat eggs separately, then put to- 
gether, adding other ingredients in order given. Bake 
thirty minutes in moderate oven. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. William Wescoit 

Slice four oranges over which sprinkle sugar. Dis- 
solve a heaping teaspoon of com starch in a little cold 
water; over this pour a pint of boiling water. Add 
one cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon. Beat the 
whites of two eggs to a froth and spread over the top. 

QUEEN OP BREAD PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Ralph Stauffen, Providence, R. L 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, four 
eggs, (reserving the whites for the meringue), one- 
fourth cup of sugar, rind and juice of one lemon, a 
little salt and some small pieces of butter, when baked 
add meringue, brown in oven quickly. 



DESSERTS. 363 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Oliver B. Blanchard. 

One pint fine bread crumbs^ one quart of milk, 
one cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten 
with a pinch of salt, the grated rind of a lemon, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg. Bake until done but not 
watery. Whip the whites of the eggs stiflE, beat in 
half teacup of sugar in which has been strained the 
juice of the lemon. When the pudding is cool, spread 
over the top a layer of jelly, and then the whites of the 
eggs. Place in oven to brown slightly. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Oeorge M. Culver. 

To one quart of bread crumbs soaked soft in a cup 
of hot milk add, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
raisins, one teaspoonful each of spices, one teaspoonf ul 
of salt, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two eggs, well beaten, one cupful of flour, sifted. 
Boil or steam three hours and serve with sauce made 
of butter, powdered sugar and one egg. Beat fifteen 
minutes until light. 

STEAM BREAD PUDDING. 

Miss Caroline F. Stewart, Middletown,, N: T. 

One pint bowl fine bread crumbs, one-half cup of 
milk, one-half cup of molasses, one egg, one teaspoon 
ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ground cloves, one- 
half teaspoon bicarbonate soda, one-half teaspoon 
(small one) of salt, one-half nutmeg, grated, one cup 
of stoned raisins (if seedless raisins are used they 



364 KIRMESS CX)OK BOOK. 

should be split). Beat the ingredients well and steam 
for one hour in double pudding steamer. 

8AUCE FOR STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 

One large tablespoon butter, three-fourths cup of 
sugar, beat to a cream, add tablespoon^ brandy^ one- 
half cup cream whipped stiff then beat with the creamed 
butter and sugar. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Two tablespoonfuls of rice, wash thoroughly, mix 
with one quart of milk, butter size of hickory nut, 

one tablespoonful of sugar, or sweet enough to taste 

well. Qrate nutmeg over top, put on back of stove 

and simmer for one hour, stir gently occasionally. Put 
in oven, bake slowly for one hour and a half. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs, Oeorge R. Hough, 
Put one-half cup rice and three cups milk into 
double boiler ard steam imtil soft, add one pint milk, 
one-half cup sweet cream or butter, yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, five tablespoonfuls sugar. Place again on 
fire and stir gently until boiling. Put in pudding dish 
and make meringue of whites of eggs. 

bird's nest pudding. 
Mrs. C. M. Oovld, Bayside, L. I. 
Peel and slice four nice apples. Put them in a deep 
dish, cover them with bread crumbs, and add a lump 
of butter size of an egg, one-half cup of molasses, 
one cup of raisins, one cup of currants, one tablespoon- 
ful of citron chopped fine, the rind of an orange, 
and a half cup of sherry. Bake one-half hour, serve 
hot with hard sauce. 



DESSERTS. 365 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Ellwood. 
One cup sugar, one cup milk, one-half cup melted 
butter, one egg, one pint lightly sifted flour, a small 
teaspoon of cream tartar, one teaspoon of soda. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Use hard or soft sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey.^ 
One cup beef suet (chopped fine), one cup molasses, 
one cup milk, two cups flour mixed with one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, one cup raisins, one cup currants, 
one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful all- 
spice. <Boil from two to three hours by placing the 
pudding boiler in a deep vessel of boiling water. To 
be eaten hot with a creamy sauce. 

' GERMAN PUFFS. 

Mrs. H. V. Condict. 
One and one-half cups flour, three cups milk, three 
eggs beaten very light, three teaspoons melted butter, 
one saltspoon of salt After beating hard with spoon 
for several minutes, pour in muffin tins, or earthen 
cups, which have been made very hot and buttered. 
Bake 45 minutes in very hot oven, first on the bottom 
of the oven until raised and set, finishing to a fine brown 
on shelf. If taken out too soon they will fall — ^should 
be hollow inside and crisp — ^and eaten immediately 
with either soft or hard sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. John J. Flagg. 
One pound beef suet (chopped fine), one pound of 
currants, one pound sugar (best white powdered), one 



366 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



and one-half pound raisins, one-fourth pound orange peel 
(cut very fine), one- fourth pound citron (cut very fine), 
one-fourth pound lemon peel (cut veiy fine), one 
and one-half nutmegs (grated), two teacupfuls bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon salt, one-half teacupful brandy, 
eight fresh eggs. Above will fill two one quart bowls. 
Each pudding should be steamed eleven hours. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs, J. Wm. McKelvey. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder in flour, two eggs, pinch of salt. Put 
fruit in dish and pour batter over and bake. 

TUTTI FRUTTI PUDDING. 

Mrs. William Brinkerhoff. 
One cup very soft rice, which has been boiled in milk, 
one pint whipped cream, one cup chopped figs, one 
quarter cup chopped preserved ginger, one quarter 
pound candied cherries cut in halves, one wineglass 
of sherry wine, one half box gelatine, one cup cold 
water. Dissolve gelatine in water slightly warmed, 
when cold mix all together, adding whipped cream 
last. Put in mould and set on ice. When cold turn 
out on dish, with one half pint of whipped cream and 
sherry. Rice must be cold when used. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. F. Brown. 
Boil one pint of milk, stir in one tablespoon corn- 
starch (wet with cold water), when milk boils, then one 
tablespoon butter. Stand this aside to cool. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs, one cup white sugar and mix well, 



DESSERTS. 367 

then add the juice of two lemona and grated rind of 
one; beat this to a stiff cream, and add to the cold 
cornstarch. Beat all well together, put in a buttered 
dish and stand back till stiff. Eat cold. Make a me- 
ringue of the whites of eggs, by beating stiff and adding 
three tablespoons sugar. Spread on top of pudding 
and brown a minute or two. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N- Y. 
One quart boiling water, grate the rind of one 
lemon into it, mix two tablespoonfuls in one-half cup 
of cold water, stir this into the boiling water until 
cooled, then squeeze the juice of three lemons into a 
cup, beat yolks of three eggs light, add lemon juice 
and one cup of sugar to beaten yolks, then stir into 
boiling mixture and stir about two minutes. Pour into 
pudding dish and let cool. Beat the whites .of eggs 
very stiff, add three tablespoonfuls sugar, spread i 
thin layer on pudding and drop the rest from a spoon 
in little lumps all over the puddng, then set in the oven 
and brown lightly. Put on ice and serve cold. 

PUDDING PRALINEE. 
Mrs. M. Cornell, Bayside, L. J. 
Take one-fourth pound macaroons and brown in 
oven, then remove, and roll them on a board until 
powdered. Put the powder in a dry pan and place#in 
oven for a few moments until quite brown. Then beat 
the whites of six eggs until very stiff, adding a little 
sugar. Then pour the powdered macaroons slowly in- 
to the white froth stirring it gently. Put the mixture 
into a mould, place it in a pan with some water in it, 
and put it in the oven for fifteen minutes, draw the 



368 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

pan to the door of the oTen, take off the coTer, and 
touch with finger. If it sticks to the finger it is not 
done, replace cover and try again in about five minutes. 
Wlien ready, turn it out on a flat dish and serve with 
cream sauce around it 

HONEY APPLES. 

Mrs, Edward Mesick, 
To six sour apples, cored^ pared and sliced, use four 
slices stale bread, buttered and cut into one-half inch 
squares, and four tablespoons sugar. Butter a baking 
dish, put a layer of apples, a part of the sugar and bread, 
continue until all materials are used, having a layer of 
bread last, llien pour a half cup of maple sjrrup or 
strained honey all over. Bake in slow oven one hour, re- 
moving cover long enough for top layer to become a 
light brown. Serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs. E, H. Broun, Springfield, L. I. 
Sift a quart of flour with a half teaspoonful of salt 
and two teas{K>onfuls of baking powder. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, chopped into the prepared flour, and 
two cups of sweet milk. Put upon a floured pastry- 
board and roll into a sheet a half an inch thick. Cut 
this sheet into pi'^oes about five or six inches square. In 
the centre of eaeh of these squares place a peeled and 
Corel apple, filling the hollow centre of each apple with 
granulated sugar, then squeezing on the sugar a few 
drops of lemon juice. Fold the four comers of the 
square over the apple, pinching them firmly together on 
top. Set these dumplings in a buttered pan, having 
the joined corners underneath, that is, turning the 
dumplings upside down. Bake to a good brown in a 



DESSERTS. 369 

steady, but not very hot, oven. When light brown, brush 
with the beaten white of an egg, then set back into the 
oven just long enough to glaze the dumplings well. Take 
from the oven, sift powdered sugar over them, and serve 
hot, with a hard sauce. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Miss Hellerman. 
Use large peaches. Cut in half and take out pit, re- 
placing with blanched almonds.. Boil some rice thick. 
Spread on cheese-cloth large enough to cover entire 
peaches and tie ends firmly. Place in steamer and steam 
two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

A DELICIOUS PUDDING WITH APPLES. 

Mrs. 0. A. Oauld, New Tork. 
Beat four eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cupful of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of salt and stir these ingredients 
well into the eggs ; then pour in a pint of milk, and when 
these ingredients are well beaten together add four cup- 
fuls of sifted flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; after this add half a pound of finely chopped suet, 
which should be sprinkled with a little flour. Butter a 
large pudding mould well, put in a layer of the batter, 
then a layer of fine King or pippin apples, sliced thin; 
sprinkle just a little fine sugar over the apples and a 
little mace or grated nutmeg; then add a layer 
of the batter, then a layer of sliced apples, season- 
ing each layer with just a suggestion of sugar and nut- 
meg or mace. Continue this process till fruit and bat- 
ter are all used. Always have the layer of apples deeper 
than that of the batter. When the mould is full to with- 
in an inch of the top, cover tightly, stand it in a big ket- 
tle of boiling water; let the water come to within two 



370 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

inches of top of mould. Let the pudding boil three 
hours, then turn it out of mould and serve hot or cold 
with cream and sugar. 

TO USE STALE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie, 
Cut in slices, and toast like bread. Butter, and 
spread with jelly or jam. Keep hot till served. 

A QUICK AND SIMPLE DESSERT. 

Miss Louise Edge. 
Fry slices of sponge cake in butter until brown. 
Spread slices of friut on each piece, and make a thick 
sauce, by stirring a little arrowroot into the juice of 
the fruit, when heated. Cover the slices bountifully 
with the sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles A. Greer, Rye, N. Y. 

Dissolve one-half box of Cox's gelatine in a pint of boil- 
ing water, add two cups of sugar, and the juice of two 
or three lemons; when this has become cool (not hard) 
beat in the whites of three eggs, and beat to a stiflf 
froth. Place in mold. 

SAUCE FOR THIS PUDDING. 

Place on the fire, in double boiler, one pint of milk. 
When it comes to a boil add the yolks of three eggs, 
well beaten, one tablespoon of corn-starch mixed well 
with a little cold milk. Remove from fire, add sugar 
and vanilla to taste. Serve over the snow pudding. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Mrs. Tryon, Batavia, N. Y. 
Soak over night two heaping tablespoons of tapioca, 
in the morning drain off the water, beat the yolks of 



DESSERTS. . 371 



two eggs with one-half cup sugar, little nutmeg and 
the tapioca. Stir all in one quart of boiling milk^ boil 
ten minutes, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiflf froth 
with a little sugar, flavor with vanilla and stir into 
the custard. Brown in the oven. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 

Yolks of three eggs, beaten a little, and one cupful of 
granulated sugar, and beat until very light; then beat 
in three tablespoonfuls of cold water, grated rind of one 
lemon, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and one small 
cup of flour, mixed with one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; add whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth; mix lightly and pour into buttered cups and 
steam three-quarters of an hour. Sauce. Cream one- 
quarter of a cup of butter with one cupful of sugar ; add 
one-half cup of cream, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
and cook over hot water till creamy. 

PEAR DESSERT. 

Mrs, T. K, Egbert, New York. 

Steamed rice is surrounded with halved pears cooked 
in syrup, flavored with lemon juice and ginger. Pecan 
nuts are placed in each pear where the core has been re- 
moved, and the syrup turned over the rice. Served either 
hot or cold, this makes a delicious dessert. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. F, D, Gray. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, pinch of salt. Sweeten 
with sugar. Bake in cups, or pudding dish. 



372 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. E. F. C. Young. 
One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch, blended with milk (use more oom- 
starch, if not proper consistency), sweeten to taste. 
Flavor with vanilla. Put milk on stove in double boiler ; 
bring it to a boil; add yolks of eggs, then cornstarch, 
then sugar, then vanilla. When cold, add the beaten 
whites of the eggs, mixed with pulverized sugar. Drop 
them, by tablespoonful, on top of custard. Place pud- 
ding in oven and brown lightly the whites of eggs. 
Serve in pudding dish. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey. 

Two scant tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one cup milk, four eggs. 
Let the milk come to a boil. Beat flour and butter to- 
gether, add to them gradually the boiling milk and cook 
eight minutes, stirring often. Beat the sugar and the 
yolks of eggs together, add to the cooked mixture and 
set aside to cool. When cool, add the whites of eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a buttered pudding dish 
for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve immedi- 
ately with a creamy sauce. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANOE. 

Mrs. T. K. EgbeH, New York. 
Soak one ounce of gelatine for fifteen minutes in 



one cup of cold milk, then add Vii Vtips and a half of 
boiling milk. Mix a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late with half a^cup of cold milk, and add it to the gela- 
tine six tablespoons of granulated sugar. Place this 



DESSERTS. 373 

in a saucepan over the fire and stir constantly until it 
boils. JElemove from the fire^ stir in one tablespoon of 
vanilla extract, and when cooled, pour into the moulds, 
which have previously been rinsed with cold water and 
sprinkled with granulated sugar. Set in cold place 
until firm. Serve with liquid cream sauce. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 

Miss Hellerman. 
Cook a cup or more of grated pineapple with three- 
quarters of a cup of sugar and the juice of half a lemon 
until well reduced and thick. Beat the whites of five 
eggs with one-fourth of a teaspoonful of cream of Tar- 
tar until dry, then gradually beat in the cold pineapple 
mixture. Turn into a two-quart mold, buttered and 
dredged with sugar. Set into a dish on several folds of 
paper, surround with boiling water and let cook about 
half an hour. The water should not boil during the 
cooking. Serve turned from the mould with cream and 
sugar, or a boiled custard. 

SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. W. S. Qould, New York. 
Two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon sugar, yolks of 
four eggs ; put into a scant pint of milk. Cook until a 
thick custard. When cold, add whites of four eggs, 
beaten stiff, a teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in buttered pan 
twenty minutes% Serve hot with hard sauce. 

JUNKET. 

Mrs. T. K, Egbert, New TorTc. 
One quart of milk, slightly warmed, sweeten to taste; 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one tablespoonful of ren- 
net. Pour rennet in milk very lightly, stirring much. 



374 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Grate nutmeg over the top of the pudding and put on 
the ice to cool.* 

JUNKET WITH PUREE OF BANANAS. 

Mrs. T, K. Egbert, New Yorh 

Pare and slice two bananas and put them in a sauce 
pan over the fire, with four tablespoonf uls of water ; cook 
slowly until tender, then press through a puree sieve; 
add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of 
orange juice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of gelatine in cold water. Stir until dissolved 
and pour into sherbet glasses. When chilled, fill up the 
glasses with a plain junket; serve ice-cold with sweet- 
ened cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold 
water, one quart of milk, one square of chocolate, grated, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, sugar to taste. Stir chocolate 
and sugar in gelatine, then stir all in the boiling milk. 
Put in moulds and serve the day after it is made. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. William C. Wescott. 

One pint of milk, yolks of four eggs, one-fourth 
pound of sugar, one-half box of gelatine. Put all on 
the fire and stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain 
through a sieve, when cold add one-half pint of whipped 
cream, flavor with vanilla. Put in a mould and set 
on ice. Serve with one-half pint of whipped cream 
around it. 

* Use Hansen's Junket Tablets. Sold at all srrocers. 



DESSERTS. 375 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Oeorge Wilkinson. 
Take one-half box of gelatine and put to soak in cup 
of cold water for half an hour. Put on stove one pint of 
milk and let it get hot. Then add gelatine to hot milk 
and let it dissolve. Beat up the yolks of two eggs to a 
cream^ and add one cup of granulated sugar and cream 
with yolks of eggs. Add this to the hot milk and let come 
to a boil. Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and 
take over to stove and stir into milk. Then take it off 
the stove immediately, add one-half glass sherry, pour 
into moulds. When cold, turn out into dish and serve 
with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM- 

Tuble Talk. 
For a delightful strawberry Bavarian cream, line an 
oval mould with strips of paraflBne paper. Round the 
sides fit split lady^s-fingers, cutting off the ends. Soak 
one-half of a package of granulated gelatine in one-half 
of a cupful of cold water, then dissolve over hot water. 
Crush one quart of hulled and rinsed berries with one 
cupful of powdered sugar, let stand for two hours, then 
rub through a sieve. Add the dissolved gelatine, and as 
the mixture thickens stir in lightly one pint of thick 
cream, whipped to a stiff froth. Turn this into the pre- 
pared mould and put aside. When firm, transfer to a 
fancy dish, and garnish with whole berries and more 
whipped cream. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Soak one-third box of Cox's gelatine in one-half pint of 
milk one hour. Place on the range and let it come to 



376 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

a boil, add the yolks of three beaten eggs and one-half 
cup of Bugar, let it simmer about ten minutes. Be- 
move from the fire and stir in the whites of three ^gs 
beaten to a stiff foam, flavor with two tableepocm- 
f uls of brandy and the juice of one orange. 

ITALIAN CBEAM. 

Mrs. William F. Cook. 
Take two pints of cream, two cups of sugar, the 
juice and grated peel of two lemons and two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy. Sweeten the cream and beat the 
lemons gradually not to curdle it Add the brandy 
and freeze. In turning the freezer open twice during 
the operation to stir and beat contents. 

FINE BLANC KANQB. 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 
One-half pint of thick cream, one teaspoon Cooper's 
gelatine, salt and sugar to taste. Soak gelatine in very 
little cold water, and dissolve it by setting dish in 
boiling water, then add it to seasoned cream, stirring 
all the time. Then beat with Dover beater till thick. 
Add preserved ginger cut in very thin strips and soaked 
in teaspoon of rum, and put it in mould. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE WHIPS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 
One quart and one cup of milk, three tablespoonfula 
of cornstarch, four tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, 
one cup of sugar, pinch of salt. Put one quart of nulk 
on stove in double boiler, then add the cornstarch dis- 
solved in part of the cup of milk. Now add the choco- 
late, sugar and salt and cook twenty minutes. Re- 
move from the stove and flavor with two teaspoons of 



DESSERTS. 377 

vanilla. Pour into cups and set away to cool. When 
cool, put whipped cream on each. 

FRENCH CHABLOTTE. 

Miss E. 8. McCdbe. 

One pint of cream, whipped very stifF, one-half cup 
of powdered sugar, whites of three eggs beaten stiff, 
one dozen lady fingers, one dozen marshmallows, chopped 
fine, one dozen blanched almonds, one dozen Eng- 
lish walnuts, two tablespoons of candied cherries, one- 
half teaspoon of vanilla, three tablespoons of brandy 
or sherry. Fold the beaten whites into the whipped 
cream, add fruit and seasoning; line mould with lady 
fingers. Serve very cold. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Table Taik. 

Soak one-quarter of a package of gelatine in one- 
quarter of a cupful of cold water. Beat together two 
eggs, one-third of a cupful of sugar, and one cupful of 
milk. Stir over the fire in a double boiler until it is a 
thick custard. Add the soaked gelatine, take from the 
fire and stir until the gelatine has dissolved, then strain. 
Set aside until it begins to thicken, then add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and one tablespoonful of sherry, and 
whip hard. As it again begins to thicken add lightly one 
pint of heavy cream, whipped to a firm froth, and turn 
carefully through from the bottom for a moment or two. 
Have cups lined with split lady's-fingcrs or thin slices of 
sponge cake. Fill with the charlotte and garnish with 
candied cherries or other fruits. 



378 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

MERINGUE. 

Mrs, A, Robinson, Bay side, L. /. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then make 
a syrup by boiling two cups of granulated sugar with 
half a cup of water until it drops from the spoon in a 
fine thread. Pour this gradually while hot on the beaten 
egg; beating it all the time until all the syrup is used. 
Then put in a baking dish and cook in a moderate oven 
until light brown. 

TSARINA CREAM. 

Table Talk. 
Whip one pint of thick, heavy, sweet cream to a solid 
froth and color it pale green with leaf green color paste. 
Soak one-quarter of a cupful of gelatine in one-quarter 
of a cupful of cold water, and when soft, stand over hot 
water until dissolved. When the first heat has passed, 
strain it into the cream and stand in a pan of cold water. 
Stir lightly every now and then, and as the mixture 
begins to thicken, add three tablespoonfuls of sifted 
powdered sugar; in a moment or two add gradually 
four tablespoonfuls of sherry, taking care that it thick- 
ens a little after each addition. Lastly, stir in a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and a half cupful of blanched and 
chopped almonds. Turn into fancy cups for serving, 
and garnish with bits of angelica or citron. 

WINE JELLY. 

Mrs, Wilder Smith, Batavia, N, Y, 
To one package of Cox's gelatine add enough water 
to cover, the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind 
of one. Let this stand one hour, then add two pints 
boiling water, one pint of sherry (good), two pounds 
pulverized sugar, a little brandy or whiskey. Strain into 
moulds and put in a cool place. 



DESSERTS. 379 

WINE JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Mrs. E. H. A. Correa, Hoboken, N. J. 
Soak one box Cooper^s gelatine in one quart of Cali- 
fornia port wine, three cups of sugar, juice of four lem- 
ons, one ounce stick cinnamon. Stand on extreme back 
of range for one hour, stirring occasionally. At the end 
of an hour, add one quart of boiling water, strain and put 
in a cool place to stiffen. When cold, serve with whipped 
cream. 

mother's PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

Mrs, T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Two quarts of cream, three tablespoonfuls of arrow- 
root, the whites of eight eggs well beaten, one pound of 
powdered sugar. Boil the cream, thicken it with the 
arrowroot, add the sugar and pour the whole upon 
the eggs. If you wish it flavored with vanilla, split 
half a bean and boil it in the cream. Freeze. 

PIIILADELPIIIA ICE CREAM. 

Mrs, C. C, D. R.J Los Angeles , Cat. 

In a double boiler scald one pint of cream. Add one 
cupful of granulated sugar and stir until it is dissolved. 
Add a second pint of cream, take immediately from the 
fire and set away to cool. When cold add one table- 
spoonful of vanilla or any desired flavoring and freeze. 

What is known as Philadelphia ice cream is composed 
of cream sweetening and flavoring. Cream which has 
not been cooked swells considerably in the process of 
freezing, but has not the rich smoothness of scalded 
cream. Hence half of the liquid is cooked, the remain- 
der added raw, the result being a rich cream which 
during freezing will increase slightly in bulk, yet is de- 
lightfully velvety and does not melt rapidly. Any other 



380 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

flavor or combination of flayors may be used in place of 
the vanilla. 

ICB OBBAK. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 
One quart of milk, one-half vanilla bean, boil to ex- 
tract flavor; one tablespoonful of arrowroot, dissolved 
with milk; two cups of scant or one pound granulated 
sugar. Strain and put in ice box. Whip one quart of 
cream, then put together and whip again until thor- 
oughly mixed. Freeze. 

VANILLA ICB OBEAH. 

Mrs. L. A. Olcott. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, seven eggs and 
four cupfuls of granulated sugar. Remove from the 
fire and flavor with vanilla extract When cold beat 
into the custard a quart of rich cream, and freeze. 

It is made more elegant and delicious by pouring 
over each plateful, when served, a hot or a cold choco- 
late, or cold strawberry sauce. 

FROZEN CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. 
One quart of cream, yolks of six eggs, one-half pound 
of sugar, three tablespoons caramel, one teaspoon va- 
nilla. Put the cream on to boil in a double boiler. Beat 
the yolks and sugar together until light, and stir into 
the cream. Stir continually until it thickois. Take 
from fire, add the vanilla and stand aside to cool. 
When cold, add caramel and freeze, 

HACAROON ICE CREAK. 

Mrs. E. F. Brown, Boston. 
Spread a half-pound of macaroons on a pastry board 
and with a rolling-pin crush them to a powder. 



DESSERTS. 381 



Make a custard after the following maimer: Heat a 
pint of milk to the scalding point and pour it gradu- 
ally upon three eggs beaten light with one and a half 
cupfuls of granulated sugar. Put into a double boiler 
over the fire and stir until like thick cream; remove 
and set aside to cool. When cold stir into this custard 
a pint of rich cream^ the powdered macaroons and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Turn into the freezer 
and grind until frozen. 

BISQUE LOAF. 

CantribuUd, 
Scald one pint of cream, dissolve in it one cupful of 
sugar, add another pint of cream and cool quickly. Add 
one teasponful of vanilla, one tablespoonful of caramel 
and one-third of a cupful of sherry, and freeze. Beat 
into it a crumb mixture made of two lady-fingers, one- 
quarter of a pound of macaroons and four kisses, all 
stale enough to be rolled fine. Pack into a round or 
oblong mould, cover, bind with a strip of buttered mus- 
lin and pack in ice and salt for several hours. When 
ready to serve, turn out on a lace paper doily and 
sprinkle thickly with blanched Jordan almonds. 

COFFEE ICE CREAK. 

New York. 

Put the yolks of ten eggs in a basin with twelve 
ounces of sugar, a pint of good extract of coffee, and a 
pint of milk. Mix well, put over the fire and stir stead- 
ily with a wooden spoon until the preparation thickens. 
Strain at once through a fine sieve and stir at times 
while cooling. When cool, ad^ 9 pint of raw cream. 



382 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Mix well and freeze in the usual way. Serve either 
moulded in form or rocher-like on a folded napkin. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. C. Eldredge, New York. 
Put a pint and a half of milk in a double boiler and 
scald itw Beat two cups of sugar and four eggs to- 
gether. When they are light, add to the scalded milk. 
Stir constantly and cook for fifteen minutes. Grate 
one ounce of chocolate and place over tlie fire with 
three tablespoons of sugar and one tablespoonful of 
water. When thoroughly smooth, stir this into the milk. 
When cool, stir in one quart of cream. Freeze with 
salt and ice, then mould and serve. 

PISTACHE ICE CREAM. 

Excellent Rye, N, Y. 
Blanch a quarter of a pound of pictachio nuts by 
pouring boiling water over them, let them stand ten 
minutes until skin slips off. Grind to powder. Make a 
custard of six eggs, one quart of milk, one pound of 
sugar ; cook to a custard. When cold, add one quart of 
rich cream, the pistachio nuts, enough green vegetable 
paste to give desired shade of green. Put in freezer 
and freeze. 

TUTTI PRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Eldredge, New York. 
The yolks of six eggs, one tablespoon of flour, one 
cup of powdered sugar and one pint of milk. Beat the 
sugar, egg yolks, and flour together. Boil the milk, 
mix thoroughly with the other ingredients, and pour 
all into a double boiler. Cook to a thick custard and 
set away to cool. When cold, stir in one pint of rich 
cream. Pour into a freezer and freeze xmtil the mix- 



DESSERTS. 383 

ture becomes creamy. Have at hand some candied 
fruits, cherries, etc., which have been soaked in mara- 
schino, also some rich raisins. When the mixture is 
nearly frozen, add these fruits, turn the freezer a 
few minutes longer, then let it stand until wanted. 
When ready to serve, have at hand a large flat dish of 
shredded cocoanut. Take a spoonful of the cream at a 
time, mould it into the shape of an egg, then roll it in 
the shredded cocoanut. Spin some sugar, form into 
a nest, and place your eggs in it. This cream may be 
made with plain marrons or chestnuts in place of the 
candied fruits. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oreer, Rye, N, Y, 
Make a rich custard of eight eggs, one quart of 
milk; stir in a quart of rich cream. Put in freezer 
and turn imtil half frozen. Open freezer, remove dasher 
and with a long-handled spoon beat into the cream one 
pound of chopped marrons glace. Replace top of freezer, 
pack in ice and rock salt and leave for three hours. 
Serve pudding with whipped cream around it. 

WALNUT AND FIG ICE CREAM. 

New York. 
Heat two and a half cups of milk, having reserved 
cold half a cup to mix with the other ingredients. A 
part of this half cup of cold milk use for dissolving a 
tablespoon of gelatine, and with the rest mix two table- 
spoons of flour, an egg and a cup of sugar. Into the 
milk, heating in a double boiler, stir gradually the 
flour, sugar and egg. When it has come to a custard, 
add the dissolved gelatine, a cup of rich cream, and a 
teaspoon of vanilla. After you have frozen the mix- 



384 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

tare, add the meats of half a pound of English wal- 
nuts (weighed in the shell) and a quarter of a pound 
of figs. The walnuts and figs should be well chopped. 
Beat them well in the custard and pack. 

FROZEN NUT PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. C. Collins, Philadelphia. 

Scald a pint of milk in a double boiler: add three 
eggs beaten with one-half of a cupful of sugar and stir 
until the consistence of boiled custard. Take it off, add 
four ounces of grated chocolate, stir until dissolved, 
strain and chill. Soak one-half of a cupful of candied 
cherries and one tablespoonful of chopped citron in a 
little sherry for two hours. Freeze the custard. When 
like a very thick mush add the drained fruit and one 
cupful of finely chopped nut meats^ one tablespoonful 
each of vanilla and sherry and finish the freezing. 
Pack in a melon mould, cover, bind the edges with a 
strip of buttered muslin and bury in ice and salt for 
fully two hours. 

CHRISTMAS ICE-CREAH. 

Miss Hellernian. 



I 



Make a very rich chocolate ice-cream, using at least | 

one whole cake of Baker's chocolate. The day before | 

this is made put half a cup of Malaga raisins, cleaned j 

and stoned, in a small stone jar with a cup of old sherry, 
add three ounces of candied cherries, cut in quarters, 
one tablespoonful of candied citron, chopped fine, and 
twice as much candied apricots, cut in small pieces. 
With a wooden spoon mix ingredients together, cover 
the jar closely and allow to infuse for twelve houro. I 

Now freeze your chocolate ice-cream and when it is | 



DESSERTS. 385 



almost ready to be packed drain the fruit, if it has not 
already absorbed all the sherry, and stir it into the 
ice-cream. This is served with a sauce which should 
be prepared while the cream is freezing, and is as 
follows : 

Put in a saucepan two egg yolks with one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and stir the whole 
briskly over a slow fire with an egg beater. Add 
slowly a gill of English brandy, and see that the sauce 
does not boil. When well mixed add a pint of whipped 
cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla. Serve when 
cold over ice-cream. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

Mrs, Eliott Eager. 
Two quarts of fresh peaches, one quart of cream, 
two cups fine sugar. Crush the peaches, put in freezer 
and freeze until stifF. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Tested. 
Scald a pint of cream and pour it very gradually 
upon three eggs that have been beaten light with three 
cupfuls of sugar. Put over the fire in a double boiler 
and cook, stirring constantly until you have a custard 
that coats the spoon. This will take about fifteen min- 
utes. Set the custard aside until cold, then stir into 
it a pint of rich cream and three cupfuls of cut-up 
peaches. These peaches should not be peeled and cut 
until just before the time for freezing them, and must 
be cut into very small bits, and sprinkled abundantly 
with sugar. Stir custard, cream and peaches well to- 
gether, turn all into the freezer and freeze until firm. 



386 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

If you freeze without grinding^ beat the fruit in after 
the cream has been packed down for an hour. 

OBUSHED 8TBAWBERBT ICE OREAH. 

Mrs. Charles A, Greer, Rye, N. Y. 
Make a custard like the one in nesselrode pudding, 
only doubling quantity. Add one quart of cream and 
pour in freezer. Turn and pack down until half frozen. 
Take one quart of strawberries, mash and sweeten. 
When ice cream is half frozen, carefully remove top 
from freezer and with a long spoon beat in the crushed 
berries, stirring contents from the bottom. Beplacse 
top and freeze. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

Mrs. 0. M. Culver. 
One quart preserved apricots, one quart water, sugar 
if necessary. When half frozen, add one-half pint of 
cream and freeze. 

WHOLE BANANA ICE CREAK. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Wash and wipe twelve large ripe red bananas, cut the 
skins down carefully all the length on one side, and as 
carefully extract the pulp without breaking the skins. 
Remove the pulp, scrape out the fibrous portion from 
the skins and put the latter in the ice-chest until the 
cream is ready. Mash the pulp of the bananas, mix 
with it two cupfuls of sugar and one quart of cream, 
and add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Bub through 
your colander to get rid of fibrous parts, and freeze in 
the usual way. When almost hard, fill the banana skins 
with the cream, packing it in well, tie with a soft thread 
and return to the cleaned and chilled freezer. Freeze 
for another hour (without turning). Have ready a 



DESSERTS. 387 

dozen narrow green ribbons. Eemove the threads, tie 
the bananas up with the ribbons; lay back in a freezer 
when you have wiped it dry, and leave in ice and rock 
salt until served. 

ICE CREAM WITH CRUSHED FRUIT. 

Mrs, Charles A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 
The various sundae combinations which have been 
so popular at soda and ice cream counters are perfect- 
ly feasible at home and make a specially good dessert. 
Prepare a plain vanilla ice cream and serve in punch 
glasses, pouring over the top of each dish of cream a 
few spoonfuls of crushed fruit, plain or mixed, or some 
made cold sauce. The foundation of these cold sauces 
is about like this: Boil together for ten minutes a 
half pint of granulated sugar and one pint of water. 
Add a teaspoonful of granulated gelatine which has 
been soaked in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Take ofF, stir until the gelatine is dissolved 
and strain. To this when cold add any flavoring de- 
sired. In place of all water part cream may be used 
and melted chocolate added; with the chocolate some 
finely cut preserved ginger and a few spoonfuls of gin- 
ger syrup is delicious. Part fruit juice or maple syrup 
may be used, and chopped nuts, candied fruits or 
crumbled macaroons all give variety and individuality. 

MERINGUE. 

Mrs. F. P. Gray. 
For the pretty cold course which closes the dinner, 
make some meringue shells by beating thoroughly the 
whites of four eggs, and folding in a cup of powdered 
sugar with two or three drops of flavoring. Dust some 
shallow pans with more sugar, and drop spoonfuls of 



388 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

whites of eggs with a spoon wet in cold water. Bake 
in a quick oven till they brown, then diy them two or 
three hours. Fill with plain ice cream or with whipped 
cream or cherries. 

MACABOON MOUSSE. 

Mrs. E. F. Brown, Boston. 

Make custard as in Macaroon Ice Cream, but whip the 
cream, then beat the powdered macaroons into it, pack 
in ice and freeze without grinding. 

The "mousse" or mossy effect is produced by freez- 
ing whipped cream without turning the crank. 

STILiWBEBRY MOUSSE. 

Mrs. Charles A. Greer, Rye, N. Y. 
Whip a pint of thick cream very stiff and stir into 
it a cupful of crushed berries which have been sweet- 
ened abundantly and from which all of the juice has 
been drained. Mold and pack in ice and salt for four 
hours. When ready to serve, garnish with whole straw- 
berries. 

RASPBERRY MOUSSE. 

Contributed. 
Mash a quart of red raspberries and cover them nith 
a pint of granulated sugar. Whip a quart of cream to 
a stiff froth, and beat it gradually into the mashed 
berries. Turn into the freezer. Do not grind, but pack 
in ice and cracked salt for three hours. This is de- 
licious served with or without whipped cream. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Mrs. Frederick DietZy New York. 
Two eggs, one pint of cream, one cup of powdered 
sugar, one-half cup strong coffee (hot), a little salt. 
Beat the yolks of egfjs with the sugar, then pour in cof- 



DESSERTS. 389 



fee and mix thoroughly, then set to cook, while beat- 
i^e eggs to a stiff froth. Then whip the pint of cream 
stiff. When the coffee, eggs and sugar are cold, mix all 
together and pour in a pint mould, which should be 
cold. Stand in freezer for five or sir hours, surrounded 
and covered with ice and coarse salt. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in a little milk, 
mix it with one cup of strong coffee, sweeten to taste 
with granulated sugar, and strain. Set away to cool. 
When it begins to stiffen, beat it up with an egg-beater 
till it becomes a froth, then add a pint of whipped 
cream. Mix thoroughly and fill a fancy shaped mould 
and set on the ice until hard. Invert on a platter and 
serve with whipped cream. 

FIG AND BANANA MOUSSE. 

Mrs. William Wescott. 
Slice equal quantities of figs and bananas. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Place in a mould half full of 
whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt for two hours 
before serving. The quantity of each ingredient may 
vary according to supply on hand as long as the mould 
is full. May be served with or without cake. 

ORANGE MOUSSE. 

Miss Elsie Louise Gilmore. 
Boil a pint of sugar and a pint of water until clear. 
When cool, add juice of five oranges and two lemons 
(add more oranges if not strong enough). Freeze, then 
put in mould with whipped cream in centre and pack 
in ice imtil ready to serve. 



390 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE lOB. 

Mrs. ir. S. Oould, New York. 

Juice of two oranges, juice of three lemons, grated 
rind of one lemon. Make up to a quart with water. 
Add a cup of sugar and boil to a syrup. Let it cool, 
then freeze. 

STRAWBEBRY 8HERBERT. 

Miss Elsie Oilmore. 

Three cups of strawberry juice, three cups of sugar, 
two quarts of milk. Put the milk into the freezer and 
when thoroughly chilled, about five minutes, add the 
juice and sugar, freeze. Put the strawberries through 
a potato squeezer. 

LEMON SHERBERT. 

Mrs. J. A. Dear, 

Seven lemons, two oranges, two quarts of milk» one 
quart of sugar. Put milk in freezer and chill, then 
add juice with sugar and freeze. 

A somewhat novel method of serving lemon ice: 
The fruit selected is small and quite round; a thick 
slice is cut from the end of each lemon in such a way 
as to leave a strip which will serve as a handle; and 
the pulp scooped out with a spoon; the latter is then 
squeezed, mixed with three times as much sugar and 
five times as much water and frozen. The cut end of 
each lemon is cut in scallops or points, and the rind 
baskets are packed in ice and salt until they are needed 
for serving; they are then wiped dry, filled with the 
frozen ice and served on a platter surrounded by small 
fancy cakes. 



DESSERTS. 391 

CURRANT SHERBET. 

Mrs. Eliott Eager. 

Put a pint of sugar with a quart of boiling water, 
and boil for half an hour, then add a pint of currant 
juice and the juice of two lemons. When cold, freeze. 

LALLA ROOKH PUNCH. 

Mrs. Edward M. Johnson. 

One pint of milk, one pint cream, one cup of sugar, 
six eggs, yolks only, one tablespoon vanilla or vanilla 
bean. Scald the pint of milk in a double boiler (it is 
scalded when the water in the outside kettle boils). 
Beat the yolks and sugar together until light and 
smooth. Stir the scalded milk slowly into the beaten 
eggs and sugar. Put this into a double boiler and 
cook, stirring constantly until it thickens enough to coat 
the spoon. Do not let it boil or cook too long or it will 
curdle. Semove the custard from the stove, add the 
cream and the flavoring and stir until it is partly 
cold. When cold, freeze, then add one cup of St. Croix 
rum or maraschino wine. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH. 

Contributed. 

Hull a quart of fine fresh strawberries, cover them 
with three cups of sugar, and set them away till the 
sugar has drawn out their juice, and they stand in a 
red syrup. Then put the syrup and berries through 
a fine sieve and add a claret glass of sweet wine and 
a cup and a half of water. Stir well together and 
freeze. Serve in punch or lemonade glasses. 



392 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

8TBAWBERBY OR RASPBERRY PARFAIT. 

Miss Elsie Louise OHmore, 

One pint cream whipped, four eggs, beaten separate- 
ly, two small boxes of raspberries or one quart of straw- 
berries, sugar to taste. Add the beaten eggs to the 
cream, first tlie whites, and then the yolks, then the ber- 
ries, whichever kind they may be, after they have been 
mashed tlirough a potato squeezer, and add sugar. Pack 
in ice and salt for three or four hours; after it has been 
on the ice about one-half hour, open the can and 
scrape tlie frozen cream from the side of can. Then 
cover and let it stand until ready to serve. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Mrs. William F, Cook. 

Three coffee cups of strong sweet lemonade, one 
glass of champagne, one of rum, juice of two oranges, 
whites of two eggs well b^ten, and one-half pound of 
powdered sugar, beaten into the stiffened whites. Freeze. 

BISCUIT GLACE. 

Miss E. S, McCdbe. 

Whip one pint of cream until stiff, then add to it 
three-fourths cup of confectioner^s sugar and four eggs 
beaten and added separately; one-half dozen dried and 
rolled macaroons and vanilla to taste. This mixture 
must be thoroughly mixed to keep it from separating. 
Pack in freezer with ice and salt and set freezer in 
cool place for four hours, when cream will be ready 
to serve. Cover freezer with cloth and replenish ice 
and salt if needed. 



DESSERTS. 393 



BISQUE GLACE. ^ 

Mrs. c7. Wm. McKelvey. 

Whip until stiff one pint of cream, and to this add 
four well-beaten eggs, beaten separately. After mix- 
ing eggs and cream thoroughly, add three-quarters of 
a cup of confectioner's sugar and vanilla to taste; also 
six dried and powdered macaroons. Pack in freezer 
with plenty of ice and salt and let stand four hours, 
when it is ready to serve. 

ORANQE AND BANANA MEBINOUE OLAGE. 

Mrs. Chas. A. Greer, Rye, N. Y, 

Peel, seed and chop five oranges fine, and cover them 
with two cupfuls of granulated sugar. At the end of 
half an hour peel and chop five or six bananas, and stir 
immediately into the sugared oranges. Now add a 
pint of cold water and the unbeaten whites of five eggs. 
Turn into the freezer and turn until you have a frozen 
fruit froth. 

BISQUE TORTONI. 

Miss Gertrude Lyman. 

Three-fourths of a cup of granulated sugar, three- 
fourths of a cup of water, three eggs, two teaspoons of 
vanilla, one pint of cream, one dozen stale macaroons. 
Boil sugar and water xmtil it hairs. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth. Beat yolks and add them to whites. Pour 
the S3rrup slowly into the beaten eggs and beat until 
cold. Whip the cream and add the vanilla. When the 
egg mixture is cold, add the whipped cream, a tea- 
spoonful at a time. Place in quart mould, slightly 
greased. Boll macaroons to a paste and sprinkle thick- 
ly over the bottom of mould. Put in ingredients. Put 



394 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

on a layer of oiled paper and then cover. Buiy in 
equal parts of ice and coarse salt for five hours. This 
serves eleven persons. 

TORTONI. 

Miss Beatrice Stoats. 
One pint of cream^ three eggs, three-fourths cnp 
sugar, six stale macaroons. Beat the cream, then add 
the eggs and sugar and spoonful of vanilla. Beat well, 
then stir in the crumbs. Put in freezer and stand three 
hours. 

OAPE FRAPPB. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Boil one quart of water with half a cup of sugar, add 
four ounces of ground coffee, and set at the side of the 
stove for ten minutes. Strain, and when cold add the 
white of one egg. Freeze, and serve in individual glasses 
topped with whipped cream. 

CAPE PARFAIT. 

Mrs. William Mattocks. 
One quart thick cream, one gill strong coffee, one- 
half cup powdered sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff 
froth, add coffee, then sugar and pack in melon mould. 
Bury the mould in a mixture of cracked ice and rock 
salt, using two-thirds ice to one of salt. Let it stand 
four hours. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOB VANILLA ICE CBEAM. 

Contributed. 

Rub four heaping tablespoonfuls of sweet chocolate 

(grated fine) to a smooth paste, with six tablespoonfuls 

of cream. Add two cupf uls of boiling water, and cook 

in a double boiler, stirring constantly, for ten minutes 



DESSERTS. 395 



after the boil begins. Flavor with vanilla or other ex- 
tract when cold. Before using, beat for three minutes 
hard. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR VANILLA CREAM. 

Mrs, C. Eldredge, New York, 
Crush a pint of berries, mix with them a cupful of 
sugar; stir until dissolved; strain through a fine col- 
ander or a vegetable press, and set on ice until needed. 

HOT MAPLE SAUCE FOR VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. C. Eldredge, New York. 
Boil a pound of maple sugar with a very little 
water until it begins to "thread.'' Then stir into it a 
half cupful of shelled English walnuts, broken, not 
chopped, into bits. There should be enough to make 
the sauce quite thick. Pour hot over vanilla ice cream. 

FRUIT DESSERTS. 

ORANGE BASKETS. 

Miss Rita Oray, New York, 
In halving large sweet oranges leave a strip of rind 
on one side that may serve as a handle to the other. Dig 
out the pulp from under and around the ^*handle," leav- 
ing that in the lower ^T)a8ket'' intact. Set the baskets 
in ice until you are ready to serve. Tie a bow of narrow 
ribbon to each handle before sending to table. Eat with 
orange spoons. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Miss Rita Gray, New York, 

Dissolve one ounce and a half of Cox's gelatine in a scant 
half pint of boiling water, then strain. Mix three tea- 
cups of orange juice with one teacup of lemon juice, 
strain, and add to the gelatine. Sweeten to taste with 



396 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

loaf sugar and boil five or ten minutes. Beat the whites 
of two eggs with the eggshells, stir in the mixture, and 
strain through a jelly bag. Rinse a mould with cold 
water, pour the jelly into it, and set in cold place till 
it becomes cold. ITiis jelly may be used to fill orange 
baskets. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

Mrs. J, Elkins, New York. 

Make one pint and a half of strong cofifee, sweeten to 
taste, dissolve one-quarter of a pound of sheet gelatine 
in water, strain it and mix with the coffee liquid. This 
jelly need not be cleared. Pour into a mould or moidds 
and when cold and firm serve with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE JAKDINIERE. 

Mrs. G. K. Dickinson* 

Cut the top from a ripe pineapple — keep it for the 
cover. Cut out the inside, throwing aside the core; 
scoop out the juice, and the part lying next to the rind, 
with a spoon — ^be careful not to break or puncture it 
Put the rind and the cover in a cool place. Put the 
pineapple into a bowl, add a half cupful of sherry (a 
few spoonfuls of brandy, rum, or champagne will do as 
well). Let it stand on the ice until wanted at the table; 
mix with orange pulp, seeded and halved, Tokay grapes, 
banana, or peaches and plums, stoned cherries or berries, 
according to season. Sugar to taste, fill the rind, put on 
the cover, and set the pineapple on a dish of cracked ice. 
Serve in flaring champagne glasses. 

One pineapple, two oranges, one banana, and a half 
pound of grapes will fill the rind twice and serve twelve 
people. 



DESSERTS. 397 

PINEAPPLE AND RASPBERRIES. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book- 
IVim the bottom of a large pineapple bo that it will 
stand upright. Cut off the top, but do not throw it 
away. With a sharp knife dig out the inside of the 
fruit, taking care that the knife does not penetrate the 
sides or walls of the pineapple. Put this hollowed case 
and the top into the refrigerator until needed. Pick the 
inside of the pineapple into tiny bits, and mix with it a 
cupful of red raspberries. Sweeten abundantly with 
granulated sugar, and turn the fruit into a glass, or a 
china jar, with a closely fitting cover. Put on the lid 
and bury the jar in the ice for several hours. Just be- 
fore time to serve it, remove from the ice, fill the hol- 
lowed shell with the fruit mixture, replace the top on 
the pineapple and send to table. 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRIES. 

Mrs, Seely's Cook Book. 
Cut off the top of a pineapple, and pare away the 
bottom so that it will stand upright and firm on tlie 
plate; scoop out the pulp, discarding the core; mix the 
pulp with strawberries cut in halves, the juice of an 
orange and sugar to taste. Return the mixture to the 
shell and chill thoroughly. Garnish the dish with leaves 
from the crown. 

CANTALOUPE A LA BUC. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 
Having washed and thoroughly chilled fine canta- 
loupes, cut them in halves and remove carefully all seeds 
and stringy parts clinging to the seeds. Pack the halves 
with ice-cream, garnish with cold peaches cut in 
quarters, eighths, circles, or any shape your fancy di- 



398 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

recta, and serve at once. Other f mit may be tued in- 
stead of peaches, the seasons and the interchange of 
markets sometimes permitting strawberries. 

ICE CREAM IN MELONS. 

Table Talk. 
Very tempting is strawberry ice cream, packed in 
halved gem muskmelons and garnished with halved 
berries. 

WINED PEACHES. 

Mrs. C. A. Gould, New York. 
Pare and slice half a dozen large, finely flavored 
peaches and arrange them in graceful order in a glass 
dish. l*ut over them enough sugar to sweeten them well, 
pour over them two or three glasses of champagne, and 
serve. Any wine harmonizing with peach taste may be 
substituted for the champagne. By some a fruity bran- 
dy is preferred to wine. Set on the ice, and serve well 
chilled. 

FROZEN ORANGES. 

Tested. 
In eight even-sized smooth oranges cut an inch wide 
round hole on the stem side. Take out the pulp with 
the small end of a teaspoon. Soak the skins in cold 
water, drain, and scrape the inside smoothly without in- 
juring the peel. Cut candied fruits, such as citron, an- 
gelica, raisins, orange peel, etc., in small pieces and soak 
in maraschino. Mix these with enough orange ioe to 
fill the oranges. Pill each orange. Cover with the 
small pieces taken out. Place the oranges in a freezer. 
Cover the freezer with salted ice at least two hours be- 
fore the oranges are served. Arrange each one whole 
on a folded napkin and serve. 



DESSERTS. 399 

SPONGE CAKE WITH FRUIT. 

Mrs. Oeorge Park, Rye, N. Y. 

Mix ingredients for a sponge cake and fill a ring 
mould with it. When baked and cold, place on a 
round silver or china platter or dish. Take one shred- 
ded pineapple, four oranges, one grape fruit, six ba- 
nanas cut in dice, California and Malaga grapes cut in 
quarters. Sweeten with sugar. Pour Marischino over 
fruit and fill center of sponge cake mould with this 
mixture. Decorate with fresh or Marischino cherries. 

PIES. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Paste for pies should be one-fourth inch thick and 
rolled a little larger than the plate to allow for shrink- 
ing. In dividing paste for pies, allow more for upper 
than under crusts. Always perforate upper crusts that 
steam may escape. Some make a design, others pierce 
with a large fork. 

Plat rims for pies should be cut in strips three- 
fourths inch wide. Under crusts should be brushed with 
cold water before putting on rims, and rims slightly 
fulled, otherwise they will shrink from edge of plate. 
The pastry jagger, a simple device for cutting paste, 
makes rims with fluted edges. 

Pies requiring two crusts sometimes have a rim be- 
tween the crusts. This is mostly confined to mince pies, 
where there is little danger of juice escaping. Some- 
times a rim is placed over upper crust. Where two 
pieces of paste are put together, the under piece should 
always be brushed with cold water, the upper piece 
placed over, and the two pressed lightly togetiier; oth- 
erwise they will separate during baking. 



400 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

When juicy fruit is used for filling pies, some of the 
juices are apt to escape during baking. As a precaution, 
bind with a strip of cotton cloth wrung out of cold 
water and cut one inch wide and long enough to en- 
circle the plate. Squash, pumpkin and custard pies 
are much less care taking when bound. Where cooked 
fruits are used for iUling, it is desirable to bake crusts 
separately. This is best accomplished by covering an 
inverted deep pie plate with paste and baking for un- 
der crusts. Prick with a fork before baking. Slip from 
plate and fill. For upper crusts, roll a piece of paste a 
little larger than the pie plate, prick and bake on a tin 
sheet. 

For baking pies, perforated tin plates are used. They 
may be bought shallow or deep. By the use of such 
plates the under crust is well cooked. Pastry should 
be thoroughly baked and well browned. Pies require 
from thirty-five to forty-five minutes for baking. Never 
grease a pie plate; good pastry greases its own tin. 
Slip pies, when slightly cooled, to earthen plates. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Table Talk. 
Select for this a fine pastry flour, bread flour will 
give a tough paste. Pastry flour is much whiter than 
bread flour, and when rubbed through the fingers has 
the peculiar softness and fineness noticed in com starch. 
Weigh and sift one-half of a pound ; add to it a pinch 
of salt and sift a second time, then set in a cool place. 
Scald a bowl, fill with ice or very cold water; wash the 
hands in warm soapy water, rinse in cold water and 
work and squeeze one-half of a pound of butter until 
it is waxy; divide it in four pieces and pat each out 



DESSERTS. 401 



in a thin cake, press out the water in a towel and place 
on ice until very firm. Have everything, utensils as 
well as materials, thoroughly chilled. Put aside a few 
spoonfuls of the flour to use in dusting the board ; turn 
the remainder on a platter, make a hole in the center; 
drop in it one-half of the unbeaten white of an egg and 
one of the pats of butter, add gradually a little ice 
water, and with the fingers work to a smooth, quite 
firm dough, drawing the flour in toward the center. 
Knead as if for bread, cut in two pieces and roll each 
out on the board to a quarter of an inch in thickness. 
Break a second pat of butter and distribute it over one 
of the pieces of dough, cover with the other piece and 
pat gently with the pin, then gradually roll out; if the 
butter shows signs of breaking through, cover with a 
pinch of flour ; if the dough seems at all warm wrap in 
a cloth and set away until firm. 

PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. a M. Gould, Bay Side, L, L 
One cup of lard and butter mixed, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half cup of ice cold water, two full cups of 
sifted flour. 

OLD FASHIONED PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
For one pie, use a half cup of lard, a pinch of salt, 
one and a quarter cups of "Hecker^s Prepared Flour,^' 
or ordinary flour , sifted twice, sufficient ice 
cold water to hold ingredients together. Place 
flour in mixing bowl, then add lard, using a silver knife 
to mix it thoroughly through flour and cutting it in 
fine pieces. When thoroughly mixed add salt, then ice 
water, roll out, then put together and place on ice 



402 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

for a few hours. Boll again, making thin cnist for 
top and bottom of a pie. 

MBS. HERBERT CLARKE's SQUASH PIES. 

Mrs. C. W. Cropper. 

Take a medium sized squash, boil and mash fine 
through a colander. One teaspoonful of salt, butter 
size of a walnut, one teaspoonful of ginger, two tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, one-quarter of a nutmeg, a pinch 
of ground cloves, three eggs, one pint of boiled milkr 
one-half cup of sugar. 

Will make two pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Miss Sarah Roe, New Brunswick, 
One quart milk, one pint pumpkin, six eggs, one 
cup sugar ; beat eggs well with the pumpkin, one table- 
spoon of butter, one-half teaspoon of salt, two-thirds 
teaspoon each of cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg, three 
tablespoons sherry. Have pie plate lined with crust, 
fill and bake. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. E. F. C. Young. 
One cup of boiled pumpkin, pressed through a sieve, 
one eggy one cup of sugar, one teaspoon of butter, one- 
half nutmeg, grated, a pinch of salt, two cups of milk 
or enough to make proper consistency. Line a pie plate 
with pastry crust and fill with above ingredients. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Howes, Roselle, N. J. 
Two cups stewed pumpkin, two-thirds cup sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt and cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger. 
Put this in a quart cup and add enough milk to fill Uie 
cup. Line a pie plate with crust and fiU. Bake dowly 
one hour. 



DESSERTS. 403 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Miss Stella Flanagan. 

Two large tablespoons of pumpkin, one-half table* 
spoon flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one scant cup of sugar, three eggs, beaten whites 



top of pie, put in oven and brown. 

BOSTON MINCE PIE- 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N, Y. 

Six pounds round of beef, after it is boiled and 
chopped, ten pounds russet apples, chopped very fine, 
two and a half pounds currants, wasLed and dried, two 
and a half pound raisins, stoned and chopped, one and 
a half pounds raisins, cut in thin slices, juice 



402 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

for a few hours. Boll again, making thin cmst for 
top and bottom of a pie. 

MRS. HERBERT CLARKE^S SQUASH PIES. 

Mrs. C, W. Cropper. 
Take a medium sized squash, boil and mash fine 
thrnncrh a ml an fl fir. One teasDOonful of salt, butter 



CORRECTIONS. 



Pare 402~Puxnpkin Pie. by Mrs. Howes. Roaelle. N. J. Add two e^c» 
well beaten, to other inirredients. 

Page 403— Cream Pie. by Mrs. Edward Gray. New York. Mix yolks of 
eK«* with the sugar. 

Pafire 400— Lemon Pie. by Mrs. O. V. Brinkerhoff. Add one cup of nifsr 
after the one cup of boiling water given in recipe. 

USE ROYAL BAKING POWDeR. 



or enough to make proper consistency. Line a pie plate 
with pastry crust and fill with above ingredients. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Howes, Roselle, N. J. 
Two cups stewed pumpkin, two-thirds cup sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt and cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger. 
Put this in a quart cup and add enough milk to fill the 
cup. Line a pie plate with crust and fiU. Bake slowly 
one hour. 



DESSERTS. 403 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Miss Stella Flanagan. 

Two large tablespoons of pumpkin, one-half table* 
spoon flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one scant cup of sugar, three eggs, beaten whites 
added last, one pint milk, a pinch of salt. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey. 

Mix one egg, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar to- 
gether, scald one pint of milk, add two tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch, cook until smooth, about three minutes, 
to this add the egg and sugar, a pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Bake two crusts, rolled thin; 
when cream is cool, fill one crust and place the other 
on top. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Edward Gray, New York. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
scant cup of sifted flour, one pinch of salt. Mix yolks 
of eggs, then add milk that has been heated. Let all 
come to a boil, flavor with vanilla. Line pie plate with 
crust, beat the whites of four eggs stiff, add four table- 
spoons of sugar; when pie is baked, add the above to 
top of pie, put in oven and brown. 

BOSTON MINCE PIE. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 

Six pounds round of beef, after it is boiled and 
chopped, ten pounds russet apples, chopped very fine, 
two and a half pounds currants, wasLed and dried, two 
and a half pound raisins, stoned and chopped, one and 
a half pounds raisins, cut in thin slices, juice 



404 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

of six lemons, one and a half pints cider three pints good 
brandy, three pints cherry wine, from six to seven ta- 
blespoons brown sugar, three nutmegs, three tablespoon- 
fuls cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls cloves, one tea- 
spoon mace, three pints melted butter, one cup vinegar, 
a little salt and pepper. Boil the cider, fruit, spices, vin- 
egar and butter together, and turn over the meat and 
apples, and when cool put in the liquors. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs- Oliver R. Blanchard. 

To about seven pounds of beef take four pounds of 
suet, cut up the suet and try it out carefully, then run 
it through a gravy srainer into the kettle you make the 
mince meat in. Set the kettle on the edge of the stove 
where it will keep warm, then add the chopped beef and 
some of the water it was boiled in. After being boiled 
down to a small quantity, stir thoroughly, then add fwo 
quarts sweet cider, salt and sugar to taste and equal 
quantities of mace, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Last- 
ly put in four pounds stoned raisins, four pounds cur- 
rants, well washed, a pound of chopped citron (some 
like candied orange peel and nuts), and last of all wine 
and brandy. If you want rich pies, take equal parts of 
the chopped meat and chopped apples. Keep the mince 
meat in a stone crock in a dry cool place, aiid add the 
apples when you make the pies. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs, F, W. Eveleih. 

Six pounds of lean tender beef, boil until it drops 
apart and chop fine ; add two poimds of currants, three 
jjounds of seeded raisins, one and a half pounds of 



DESSERTS. 405 

Buet; remove ekin, chop fine^ and also a half pound of 
chopped citron, and chop half as many apples as beef; 
a half cup of salt, one tablespoon of powdered clove, 
cinnamon, allspice, two grated nutmegs, five cups of 
sugar and three cups of molasses. Let the liquid in 
which beef is cooked stand overnight, remove fat from 
top and add two quarts of liquor to above ingredients. 
Let all simmer for twenty minutes, then add one pint 
of brandy, one quart of sherry and place in jars to use 
as desired. 

MINCEMEAT. 

Mrs, Charles Oilchrist, Hoboken. 

One bowl of suet, one bowl of chopped, seeded rai- 
sins, one bowl of currants, one bowl of lean beef, minced, 
one bowl of sugar, one-half pound of candied peel, 
one grated nutmeg, one-fourth spoon of ground all- 
spice, one-fourth spoon of ground cloves, one cupful or 
more of brandy. As it keeps longer without apples, 
do not put them in until just about the time to use it. 
The apples will keep two or three weeks, however. Mix 
thoroughly. Take the quantity you want to use and 
put as many chopped apples with it as you have other 
ingredients. 

MINOE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. 

Mrs. James Fleming- 
Two pounds stoned raisins, chopped fine, two pounds 
currants, one-half pound citron, chopped fine, two 
quarts of sour apples, finely chopped, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon, two teaspoons ginger, a pinch of salt, one cup 
of molasses, two and a half cups of sugar, sherry wine 
and brandy to moisten thoroughly. 



400 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



HOCK HINCE PIE. 

Mrs, Staufien, Providence, R, /. 
One cup of bread crumbB, one cup of chopped rai- 
sina, one cup of boiling water, one-half cup of molasses, 
one-half cup of vinegar, two tablesponfuls butter, 
spice and brandy to taste; boil all together before filling 
pies. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Marion Harland, 
Many persons make a cherry pie without stoning the 
cherries. That stoning them is a trouble is not to be 
denied, but the result is so satisfactory that it really 
seems worth while to take the pains to accomplish it 
In stoning cherries, use a sharp knife and save all 
the juice. Grease a deep pie-dish and line it with good 
puflf pastry. Fill the pastry shell with the cherriee and 
the juice that flowed from them in the stoning process. 
Cover with a thin crust, cut slits in this for the escape 
of the steam, and bake. Eat cold. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Mrs. Edward Linn. 

Line a buttered plate with puff paste, wash with white 
of egg and fill with ripe strawberries, capped and 
washed. Sweeten plentifully, cover with another crust; 
cut slits in this, and bake. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Mrs. Edward Linn. 

Mix ripe and stemmed currants with one cupful of 
sugar to two of currants, and bake between upper and 
lower crusts. Strew white sugar over the top and eat 
cold. 



DESSERTS. 407 

NEW ENGLAND BLUEBERBY PIE. 

Marion Harland. 

Wash and dredge blueberries with flour; then scatter 
among them half a cupful of sugar for each pint of 
berries. Pill paste shells with this, dot with butter, cover 
with another crust and bake. 

These are richer than huckleberry or blueberry pies, 
when made in the usual way, the flour thickening the 
juice slightly and the butter tempering the acid. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
One quart of huckleberries thoroughly washed and 
drained. Sweeten with sugar. Place in pie plate lined 
with pie crust, sprinkle a little sifted flour over top. 
Put on top crust. Bake. 

BLACK RASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY TARTS. 

Mrs. C. A. Oouid, New York. 
Line tart tins with pie crust. Mix the washed rasp- 
berries or blackberries with sugar. Place them in tart 
tins. Bake in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict. 
Cut oflf the brown skin of the cocoanut and grate the 
rest, and simmer the grated cocoanut in a quart of milk 
for a quarter of an hour; then take it from the fire 
and mix it with four tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a small cracker rolled 
fine, half a nutmeg; add, when cold, a wineglassfid of 
wine, five eggs beaten light. Turn the mixture into 
plates that have a lining of fine paste, and bake in a 
quick oven. 



408 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. J. Atkinson. 
Make a custard by pouring three cupfuls of scald- 
ing milk upon four eggs that have been beaten light 
with four tablesjwonfuls of sugar. Flavor with va- 
nilla, and pour into a pie dish lined with puff paste. 
Bake until set. Serve cold. 

PEACH PIE. 

Mrs. Howland, Brooklyn- 
Ldne a dish with a pie crust; take as many peaches 
as will fill the dish, pare them, lay them in pie dish 
whole, put a tiny lump of butter on each one and 
a level tablespoonful of granulated sugar to each 
peach; grate a little nutmeg over the top; cover with 
a crust and bake in a quick oven till done. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. David Keever, Atlanta, Oeorgifl. 
Ten eggs, two or three lemons and a little grated 
rind, butter size of egg, one quart of sugar, one wine 
glass sherry^ one wine glass brandy, mix part of sugar 
with yolks, mix part of sugar with wine, mix part of 
sugar with lemons, mix part of sugar with butter, mix 
yolks with butter and sugar, add wine, lemons and 
sugar, and lastly whites of eggs. Bake in pie crust 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey. 
Rind grated and juice of two lemons, two cups gran- 
ulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, two cups 
boiling water, a piece of butter, a pinch of salt. Boil 
until evenly cooked; when cool add yolks of two eggs. 
Bake on under crust. Make a meringue of whites of 



DESSERTS. 409 



eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar and place on top 
after it has been baked, and then put in the oven and 
brown lightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Garret V. Brinkerhoff. 

Two even tablespoons of cornstarch, one cup of boil- 
ing water, one tablespoon of butter, yolks of two eggs, 
and grated rind of one large or two small lemons. 
Moisten the cornstarch with a very little cold water, 
then add a cup of boiling water, allowing this to boil 
on the fire, two or three minutes to cook the corn- 
starch. Add the butter and sugar, remove the mixture 
from the fire and when slightly cool, add the eggs well 
beaten and the rind and juice of the lemons. Make 
a meringue of the whites of eggs with sugar and put on 
top of fire when baked. 

LEMON CBEAM PIE. 

Mrs. John Ease. 
Orate the skin of one large lemon, taking off the 
white pith, chop the rest very fine ; into one teaspoon of 
boiling water stir one tablespoon of cornstarch, dis- 
solved in cold water first, then boil, adding one teacup 
of white sugar, and a small pinch of salt; when cold, 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Make a rich paste, 
and bake in only an under crust. When cold, put on 
the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, with 
three tablespoons of powdered sugar. 

FILLING FOR CREAM LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. James Fleming. 

One cup of sugar, one level tablespoon of butter, two 
eggs, the juice and . grated rind of one large lemon. 



410 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



Cream together tlie butter and sugar, then add the 
flour; beat separately the yolks and whites of the egg^ 
Stir the yolks in the mixture and leave the whites for 
a meringue. Stir in the lemon juice and rind, and 
lastly the milk. Cover a pie plate with good pastry, 
pour in the mixture, and when baked cover with the 
beaten whites for a meringue and put back in the oven 
to brown lightly. 

CREAMED SWEET APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
Pare, core and quarter Campfield pound sweets, or 
other sweet apples. Put them into a pudding-dish with 
a few spoonfuls of water to prevent burning, cover 
closely and cook until tender, but not broken. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar to each cupful and let them 
get cold in the syrup. Then cut into thin slices or 
tiny dice. Boll out some puff paste quite thin; line 
a pie-plate, sprinkle with flour, lay on another crust 
and bake until brown. When ready to serve, open the 
crusts, spread the lower one with the stewed apple, cover 
with whipped cream, put on the top crust and sprinkle 
that with powered sugar. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Line a plate with pastry and fill with sliced apples. 
Sprinkle over the top sugar and spice to taste, dot it 
with bits of butter. If the apples are not juicy a little 
water is needed. Place pastry over the top and bake. 

A sauce made of one pint of milk, yolks of two eggs, 
one tablespoonful of cornstarch, blended with milk, 
sweeten to taste. Put milk on in double boiler, bring 
to a boil, add yolks of eggs, then cornstarch. Bemove 



DESSERTS. 411 



from stove and flavor with vanilla. A slice of vanilla 
ice cream placed on top of each piece of pie makes a 
delicious dessert. 

RED IL-ISPBERBY SHORTCAKE. 

Table Talk. 

A short biscuit dough is baked in two oblong pans; 

when done, butter and cover one with berries, and lay 

the other crust on top. Cover with berries and whipped 

cream. Put a generous layer of berries around the base. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Miss Rita W. Gray, New York. 
Use baking powder biscuit dough, or sponge cake if 
preferred. Bake in jelly pan tins, then juice of berries 
is not absorbed and the dough or cake made soggy. Use 
two layers of cake. Cut strawberries in half, sweeten 
and put between and on top of cake. Cover berries on 
top with whipped cream, scattering whole berries on top 
of the cream. Make a sauce of one box of berries, 
mashed thoroughly. Sweeten with sugar, place on ice 
imtil thoroughly cold. Serve with shortcake, the sauce 
to be poured over it. 

PBACH LAYEB CAKE. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 
Whip to a cream two eggs and one cupful of butter 
and two cupfuls of sugar; add a little grated nutmeg; 
pour in one cupful of milk; stirr three cupfuls of sif- 
ted flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
then add it, a little at a time, to the other ingredients; 
stir the whole till it is a perfectly smooth batter, then 
butter well three good sized jelly cake tins; divide the 
batter, pouring one-third in each tin, and bake in rather 



412 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



a quick oven till the cake is a golden brown; turn each 
cake out on a thickly folded napkin or towel ; have ready 
a dozen medium-sized peaches, peeled and cut in very 
small pieces, and sweetened palatably ; put a layer of the 
cake, when cold, on a large plate, spread it well with 
a layer of the prepared peaches, then put on a layer of 
the cake, then the peaches, and repeat this process till 
all are on; cover the top layer of the cake with the 
peaches and stand it in a cool place till ready to serve, 
then cover the top with whipped cream. This is a de- 
licious dessert. 

PEACH SHOKTCAKE. 

Mrs, U. V. CondicL 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter creamed with 
sugar, three eggs well beaten next added, one-quarter 
cup milk stirred in slowly, one heaping cup flour, two 
flat teaspoons of baking powder. Divide in three layer 
tins. Bake in a moderately hot oven for fifteen minutes, 
placing tins first on the bottom of oven until raised, then 
browning quickly on shelf in oven. Cut up ripe peaches 
in small pieces and let stand, after sprinkling with 
sugar, for a half hour. Then cover each layer of cake 
with peaches and whipped cream also on top of cake. 
One pint of cream for whipping. Do not put peaches 
and whipped cream on cake until a few minutes before 
serving. 

INDIVIDUAL BEBRY SHORTCAKES. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

Baking powder biscuits are split; buttered while hot, 
and filled with crushed fruit and sugar. Garnish with 
halved berries. 



DESSERTS. 413 



BAMBURY TARTS. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 
One cup raisins, one cup white sugar, one egg, one 
lemon. Boil the lemon until tender and chop lemon 
and raisins fine. Make an upper and under crust. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 
Pour eggs, one cup white sugar, one cup flour, one- 
half teaspoon cream tartar, put in flour, one-fourth 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in water, butter size of an egg. 
Pill with raspberry. 

CARAMEL PIES. 

Mrs, Walter Jones. 
Cream together one cup of butter and one cup of 
sugar ; add five eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
one cup of preserved damsons, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
beat all together very light and bak^ with only a bot- 
tom crust. This will make two pies. If you have no 
damsons, cherries or any small fruit will do. 

CAKES. 

CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One and three-quarter cups of sugar, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, two-thirds of a cup of butter, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder and whites of five eggs. 
Bake in three layers. 

Chocolate Filling. One cup sugar, enough water to 
dissolve it, put this on the range and cook until it 
threads. Have ready the white of an egg beaten, pour 
the hot sugar on the egg slowly and beat until the icing 



414 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

is stiff enough, then stir in a half pound of melted 
chocolate which is cooled. Take out some of the icing 
in a bowl, use this for top of cake. Stir in some En- 
glish walnuts and some shredded cocoanut, after putting 
them both through a meat chopper, put the nut icing 
between each layer of cake and on tiie top and lastly 
the plain icing on top of the nut icing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Rosier. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one full 
cup of milk, four eggs, reserving whites of one for icing; 
three scant cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Do not make too stiflF, bake in layers. 

Pilling. One-half cake of German sweet chocolate, 
grated, one cup of milk, one scant tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, a little sugar and vanilla. Place in double 
boiler, let the milk come to a boil, and thicken with 
the com starch, to make like cream, add the grated 
chocolate, sugar and vaniUa, remove from stove when 
chocolate is melted. Spread between layers of cake, 
cover the top of cake with icing made with the other 
two strips of chocolate, grated, stirred in white of one 
egg left from cake and the same amount of confection- 
er's sugar as you use for icing and put on fire just to 
dissolve. Put this mixture in small saucepan, open 
top of tea kettle and set saucepan on top, so mixture 
does not burn. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs, Charles E. Brownne, 

One tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one- 
quarter cake of chocolate, one cup of milk, one and 
one-quarter cup of flour, two teaspoons soda, one tea- 



DESSERTS. 415 

spoon cream tartar, one teaspoon vanilla, one cup of 
milk. Mix butter and sugar (not to a cream), add 
yolks of eggs, chocolate melted, milk, whites of eggs 
beaten stiff with soda, flour mixed with cream tartar, 
then vanilla. Bake fifteen minutes. 

FILLING. 

One cup of confectioner's sugar, two tablespoons of 
cold water, one-eighth cake of chocolate, (Baker's), 
melted, one tablespoon of hot water, one teaspoon of 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 

One cup of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, 
half a cup of milk, cup and a half of flour, three eggs, 
quarter of a teaspoonful of baking soda, (half teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar), or prepared flour answers as a sub- 
stitute to both. One cup of grated chocolate, one egg, 
half a cup of milk, sugar to the taste. Put it on the 
fire and let it boil until it thickens. Flavor with va- 
nilla. 

Cream Filling. One pint of milk, one egg, one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, sugar to taste, 
flavor with vanilla. Let it boil until it thickens. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mis8 Gladys Ltnn. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs beat 
separate, one-half cup milk, one and a half teaspoon 
baking powder, add tiie beaten whites of the eggs last. 
Filling. One-half pint milk, one tablespoon butter, 
one-half cup sugar, one-quarter cup chocolate, one ta- 
blespoon cornstarch, yolks of two eggs. Boil the milk 



416 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

sugar, chocolate and cornstarch for five minutes then 
take from fire, and add the butter and eggs. 

DEVIL CAKE. 

Excellent, Rye, N. Y. 
One-half cupful of butter, one and one-half cupful 
sugar, (powdered), four eggs, one cupful milk, one 
and one-half cupfuls flour, one-fourth pound Baker^s 
chocolate (melted in dry bowl), one teaspoon cream 
tartar, sifted in the floiir, three-fourths teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the milk, one teaspoon vanilla. Cream 
sugar and butter well together, then add beaten yolks 
of eggs, add milk with soda, flour with cream of tartar, 
well sifted, then vanilla, add melted chocolate, lastly 
beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two layer pans; put 
vanilla frosting between layers and on top. 

DEVIL FOOD CAKE. 

Mrs. George Milne. Port Chester, N. Y. 
One cup butter, one cup milk, one and one-half cups 
sugar, three and one-half or four, cups flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, yolks of three eggs, whites 
of four eggs beaten stiflf. 

CARAMEL. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, butter size of wal- 
nut, three-fourths cake grated chocolate, one teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, yolk of an egg. Heat until melted but 
donH boil. Let cool and beat into cake. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. B. Ricketts. 
One cup sugar, one cup milk, one cup chocolate, 
grated fine, yolk of two eggs, one large tablespoonful 
of butter, one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoon- 



DESSERTS. 417 j 

fule baking powder. Melt chocolate with little milk, 
add butter while hot. When this cools add other ingre- 
dients. Put together with boiled icing. I 



DABK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Jenvey, Hoboken. 
One cup dark brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour. Cream, 
one cup grated chocolate, one-half cup milk, two-thirds 
cup dark brown sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful vanil- 
la. Cook like cream in custard kettle and mix in the 
first recipe, sprinkle one teaspoonful dry soda on mix- 
ture and stir well; bake in layers and put frosting be- 
tween. Frosting. Two cups sugar, ten tablespoonfuls 
milk, boil eight minutes and beat light with a fork. 

PUDGE CAKE. 

Mrs. T. R. Chambers. 
Make an all chocolate loaf cake in a square pan, not 
too deep. When the cake is cool, take marshmallows 
and put them evenly all over the top. Make fudge of 
three squares Baker^s chocolate, two cups granulated 
sugar, one-half cup cream or rich milk, butter size of 
half an egg. Boil eight minutes and add one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Take from stove and beat about five 
minutes, until creamy. Pour it over marshmallows, on 
to cake. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 

Take one pint flour, sift with two teaspoons cream of 

tartar and one teaspoon soda and one-half teaspoon salt 

and a scant cup of sugar, rub into this a tablespoon of 

butter. Beat one egg in a cup and fill the cup up with 



418 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

milk, add this and beat all together well; laat add a 
large cup of berries and stir in lightly. 

BOLL JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Gould, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Three eggs, one cup of sugar, three tablespoons sweet 
milk, one cup and a half of flour, two scant teaspoons 
of baking powder. Bake in sheet form, cover with jelly 
and roll quickly. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Miss 8. E. Anness. 
One and one-half cups powdered sugar, one-half cup 
butter, eight yolks of eggs, one-half cup milk, one and 
one-half cup Hecker's prepared flour. 

queen's cake. 
Mrs. 0. R. Blanchard. 
One pound sugar, half pound butter, four eggs, one 
cup milk, one pound flour, glass of wine, one pound 
raisins, half a teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves, 
and nutmeg. Serve with a foaming sauce made as fol- 
lows: Beat half a cup of butter to a cream, add one 
cup granulated sugar, stir until white and foaming. 
Just before serving, pour on it a cup of boiling water 
and stir a moment. 

ORANOE CAKE. (EXCELLENT) 

Mrs. Oarret V. Brinkerhoff. 
Two cups white sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup 
water, yolk of five eggs and whites of four beaten 
seperately, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, the juice and grated rind of a large orange. 
Filling. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiflf froth, 
add one cup of sugar, the juice and grated rind of one 



DESSERTS. 419 

orange. Beat well. Put it between tlie layers and on 
the top. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. F. Brown, 
Two cups sugar, two cups flour, one and a half tea- 
spoons Boyal baking powder, yolks of five eggs, whites 
of four, three-quarters cup of cold water, and juice of 
one orange. Filling. Juice and rind of one orange, 
confectioner's sugar, white of one egg, beaten together, 
not too thin. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE. 

Miss Louise Edge. 
One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, (scant), five eggs, beaten separately, one cup 
milk, three teaspoons baking powder. 

FILLING. 

One large orange, juice only, one-half of an orange 
rind, grated, one egg, white only. Mix with one and 
one-half cups of confectioner's sugar, enough to make 
a soft icing, soft enough to run, and pour over the lay- 
ers and the top. 

CREAM LAYER CAKE. 

Mrs. E. B. Kiersted. 
Four eggs, one cup granulated sugar, one cup flour, 
three tablespoonfuls of cold water, one scant teaspoon 
baking powder. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar to a 
cream, and add the water, then mix in the whites that 
have been beaten to a stiff froth, and sift in the flour 
with the baking powder. Bake in one cake tin thirty- 
five minutes and split cake when cold, then after putting 
the filling between, cut the cake before you put the 
rest of the cream on top. 



420 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FILLING FOB CAKEB. 

One-half pint cream, beaten stiff, three tablespoon* 
fuls of confectioner's sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla. 
To the above add either, one cocoanut, one pound nuts, 
one pound fi^s, one pound marshmallows. The mareh- 
mallowB for the layer should be cut and mixed with one- 
half the cream, and the others used to decorate the top 
of the cake after the cream is put on. 

CRBAK CAKE. 

Mrs. Samuel McBumey. 

One cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one and a half 
cups of flour, two eggs, one-half cup milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, a little salt, and a few drops flavc»r- 
ing. Filling for cake. One cup milk, scalded, one- 
half cup sugar and a pinch of salt, one tablespooninl 
cornstarch, dissolved in half of the milk, one egg well 
beaten, three-quarters of a teaspoonful butter. Set tlii» 
in a kettle of hot water, stir until thick; flavor with 
vanilla when cool. 

CUSTARO CAKE. 

Mrs, Oeorge Milne, Portchester, N. ¥• 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one and one-half tablespoons melted butter, four 
tablespoons cold water, two teaspoons baking powder. 
For the custard, one eggy one-half pint milk, table- 
spoon flour, one tablespoon sugar, flavor. Bake in lay- 
ers, place custard between. 

FIO CAKE. 

Mrs, T. K. EgbeH, New York. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups sugar, 
two and one-half cups flour, whites of four eggs, two 



DESSERTS. 421 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two-thirds cup of milk. 
Filling. One-half pound of raisins, chopped and 
seeded, one-half pound of figs, chopped, one-third cup 
of hot water. Make this into a paste. Icing over paste 
on each layer. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Mattocks. 

One-half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, one 
and a half cups of flour, one-half cup cornstarch, one- 
half cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, two squares melted chocolate, yolks of 
four eggs, whites of three eggs. This makes three lay- 
ers. Filling. One cup granulated sugar, five table- 
spoons cold water. Boil rapidly without stirring until 
it spins a fine hair, watching carefully that it does not 
bum. When done remove immediately from fire and 
add it to the well beaten white of one egg, add a tea- 
spoon of vanilla and beat thoroughly until it is like 
cream. Spread between the layers and on top. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

Mrs. E. B. Kiersted. 

Five eggs, whites beaten separately, one cup sugar 
beaten with yolks, one tablespoon of warm water and 
a little salt, one and a half tablespoons coffee extract, 
one scant cup of flour, one teaspoon baking powder. 
Beat well and mix in the whites of the eggs. Sift the 
flour and baking powder six times. Filling for Mocha 
cake. One-half pint cream, beaten stiff, three table- 
spoons confectioner's sugar, two tablespoons extract of 
coffee. For top icing. Whites of two eggs, confection- 
er's sugar and extract to flavor. 



422 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



MOCHA CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm, Brinkerhoff, 

One cup sugar, five eggs, one cup flour, one tablespoon 
Mocha extract, one teaspoon baking powder, whites of 
eggs beaten and added last. Filling. One-half pint 
cream, whipped, one tablespoon Mocha, powdered sugar 
to taste. Add filling when ready to serve. Icing. 
White of an egg, add confectioner's sugar and one ta- 
blespoon of Mocha extract. 

MOCHA TABT. 

Mrs. A. Scott 

Yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, beat to a cream 
and add one tablespoon of Mocha extract, three-quar- 
ters cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, whites of 
four eggs, beaten to a froth. Bake in two layers. Fill- 
ing. One-half pint cream, well whipped, sugar to 
taste, one tablespoon Mocha extract. Icing. One cup 
confectioner's sugar, not quite two tablespoons of cold 
water, one tablespoon Mocha extract. (Cross & Black- 
well's Coffee extract.) 

NEW ENGLAND NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary II. Hubhell, YonJcers, N. F. 

One cup buttor, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon baking powder, one 
large cup of English walnuts, cut fine, two teaspoons 
vanilla extract, cream, butter and sugar. Add well 
beaten yolks of eggs, then milk, beaten in slowly, add 
flour that has been sifted four times with the baking 
powder, and the extract lastly, add the well beaten 
wliites of the eggs, folded in with spoon slowly. Add 
nuts floured well. 



DESSERTS. 423 

AUNT JANB'S nut OAKE. 

Mrs, Jane Burton, New Brunswick. 
Two cups sugar, one-fourth pound butter, four eggs, 
pinch of salt, one and one-fourth teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, three cups flour, one-half pound citron cut 
fine, one pound raisins, three pounds English walnuts, 
chopped. Mix and bake four hours. 

NUT OAKE. 

Mrs. Elliot Eager. 
Two cups sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of 
flour, one cup cold water, four eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two teaspoonfujs cream tartar, two cups of white 
walnuts, and added last of all. 

TIP-TOP CAKE. 

Mrs. John J. Toffey. 
One and a half cups of sugar, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, two eggs, one cup of milk, two and a half cups 
Hecker's Prepared flour, flavoring. For layer cake. 

DELICATE OAKE. 

Mrs. John J. Toffey. 

One and a half cups sugar (scant), half cup of but- 
ter, whites of four eggs, well beaten, one cup of milk, 
two cups flour, flavor with a half teaspoonful each of 
vanilla and lemon essence. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. Wilbur Smith, Batavia, N. Y- 

One pound of flour, one pound sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, one pound raisins, seeded, one 
pound currants, seeded, four eggs. Dissolve one-half 
teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water 



424 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

and add to one-half cup of cream or milk, and add to 
mixture; one wineglassful of wine, mace, cloves, cinna- 
mon and citron to taste. 

ALMOND OAKE. 

Mrs. Geo. fl. Hough. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three-quarters 
of a cup of milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, three cups flour. Pilling. One cup thick 
cream, one cup powdered sugar, one cup almonds, 
blanched and chopped fine, whites of threp porono t^** 



to the top and one for the bottom ; add to the rest half 
teaspoon each of cassia, clove and nutmeg, two table- 
spoons molasses, half cup fruit. Jelly between layers, 
frost top. 



DESSERTS. 425 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs, Calvin Stimets. 
Six eggs, two scant cups sugar, two cups prepared 
flour, sifted thrcQ times, little lemon juice and grated 
peel. Put sugar into saucepan with three-quarters of 
a cup of boiling water, boil until it is like & syrup. 
Beat yolks of eggs very light, add hot syrup, then flour, 
lastly lemon juice, a pinch of baking powder size of pea, 
and whites of eggs beaten light. Ice with boiled icing. 
This is nice wiUi sherbet and will keep a week. 



CORRECTIONS. 



Page 425-8ponge Cake, bv Mrs. Lee Condict. thould read hall eggshell- 
ful of cold water, in place of one-half egg., cold water. 

Page 427- Sponge Cake, by Mrs. Wilbur Smith, ahould read sUr lu the 
sugar well. 

Page 435-CruUer8. by Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. ehould read fry in hot 
lard, not hard lard. . 

Page 441 -Cinnamon Buns, by Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. One cup of milk, 
one egg, one-half cup of sugar should be used before one-half 
of yeast cake. 

USE ROYAL BAKING POWDER. 



.^^^w j^^.^^ ^-. w.— *'oo-> ''— '^ *— -r ^^ — ©*•** ^w*.- ^'t^fi" 

and sugar to a cream with egg beater, one scant half 
cup of hot water, one cup of flour, sifted eight times, a 
pinch of salt, put whites of eggs in last, put tablespoon 
of lemon juice and grated rind with yolks of eggs. 



420 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



BEBWICK SPONOE CAKE. 

Mrs, George W. Case. 
Beat six eggs, yolks and whites together two nuniites, 
add three cups of sugar^ and beat five minutes ; two cups 
of flour with two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar^ and 
beat two minutes; one cup of cold water with one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in it, and beat one min- 
ute; the grated rind and half the juice of a lemon, a lit- 
tle salt and two more cups of flour, and beat another 
minute. Observe the time exactly and bake in rather 
deep cup cake pans. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. ff. C. White, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Take three eggs, one and. a half cups of sugar, one and 
a half cups flour, one-half cup cold water, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Yanilla and salt to taste. 
Cream, sugar, and yolks together, then add whites of 
eggs, water, and lastly the flour. Ths recipe makes 
two large jelly tins for layer cake. 

COUSIN Polly's white sponge cake. 

Mrs. W. V. Toffey. 

Whites of eight eggs, well beaten, one and one-half 

cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of prepared 

flour, lemon flavoring and pinch of salt. 1(Sift flour 

and sugar.) 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. A. Dear. 
Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, two level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of salt and flavor- 
ing, one cup of boiling milk. Beat yolks and whites sep- 
arately, add the sugar to yolks, then the boiling hot 
milk, the flour with the baking powder, the flavoring 



DESSERTS. 427 



and then the whites of eggs just lightly beaten. Bake 
in a moderate oven about forty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. TF. P. WaUon. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs, two cups of sugar, add the 
beaten whites, to this add one cup of flour, ten table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, to this a second cup of 
flour and two teaspoons of baking powder, flavor to 
taste and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Wilbur Smith, Batavia, N. F. 

Four cups sugar, four cups flour, eight eggs, one cup 
of ice water, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, juice 
and rind of one lemon. Beat the yolks very light, this 
in the sugar well, sift the baking powder with the flour. 
Add to the sugar and yolks, a pinch of salt and the 
juice and rind of the lemon, then the cold water and 
flour, lastly the well beaten whites. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss V. Harper, New York. 

Pour eggs, and one cup of sugar, with grated rind of 
lemon, beat hard and steadily for full twenty minutes 
with wire spoon beater. Then add quickly, stirring 
very lightly, a cup of flour and lemon juice, according 
to taste. Put it as soon as possible into the oven with 
a fire just ready to be very hot, so it will rise first and 
then brown. The cake depends entirely on the fire and 
the rapidity with which it is gotten into the oven, when 
you have finished beating. This cake may be baked in 
layers with the following chocolate filling : 



4:28 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE PILLING. 

Miss Addie Montgomery, New York. 
One-half pound of Maillard^s chocolate, grated, three- 
fourths cup of milk, yolk of two eggs, one-half cup of 
powdered sugar. Put milk in double boiler, when hot 
put in chocolate and cook for three-fourths of an hour. 
Beat sugar with yolk of eggs and put it in the cooked 
milk and chocolate, then let it cook ten minutes more. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Mrs. Lambert's Professional CooJc. 
One cup of sugar, whites of eight eggs, yolks of five, 
beat whites then yolks, add sugar, yolks and whites, 
one and a half cups of flour last, a pinch of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, sifted three times in flour. 

AUNT jane's PRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary Burton, New Brunswick, N. J. 
One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound 
brown sugar, ten eggs, three pounds raisins, three 
poimds currants, two pounds citron, one wine glass 
brandy, one tablespoonful of salt, cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice to taste. Mix; beat eggs very light, rub fruit 
with a little flour, mix in fruit and flour alternately. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Gould, Bay Side, L. I. 
One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of flour, nine eggs, four pounds of raisins (chopped), 
four pounds of currants, one-half pound citron (sliced), 
three gills of brandy, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, 
one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, one tablespoon- 
ful ground allspice, one nutmeg (grated), one table- 
spoonful of vanilla extract, one tablespoonful of orange 



DESSERTS. 429 



extract, one tablespoonful of almond extract, the juice 
and rinds of two lemons. Bake in two separate pans 
containing four pounds each, one hour and a quarter, in 
a moderate oven. 

cakrib's fruit cake. 
Mrs. Henry L. Kellers. 
Cream two tablespoons lard, or butter, with one cup 
sugar, white or brown, add one egg well beaten, one cup 
sour milk in which is dissolved one teaspoon soda, one- 
half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one- 
quarter teaspoon each of mace and allspice, two cups 
pastry flour, one cup chopped raisins, one-half cup cur- 
rants, one-half cup chopped lemon or orange peel, and 
citron mixed, rub one-fourth cup more of flour over the 
fruit, then mix all together. Have a bread pan well 
greased and lined with brown paper, also greased well; 
put in the cake mixture and bake slowly an hour. This 
will keep a long time. 

POUND OAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Qould. 
One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
eight eggs, one gill brandy, two tablespoons vanilla, 
one-quarter teaspoon ground mace. Bake in moderate 
oven forty minutes. 

8PICE CAKE. 

Excellent, Rye, N. Y. 
Two cups brown sugar, two cups sour milk or cream, 
one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon cloves, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice, one large cup of 
raisins, one large cup of citron, one teaspoon soda, dis- 
solved in half cup of molasses, flour sufficient to make 
soft batter. 



430 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs, Ralph Stauffen, Providence, R. L 
Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter, one and one- 
third cups milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one cup of chopped raisins, four small cups of flour. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. W, A. Durrie. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, one egg, chopped rai- 
sins, one tablespoon of cinnamon and cloves, one tea- 
spoon of soda. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs, Wilbur Smith, Batavia, N, Y. 

Cream, four tablespoonfuls of butter, add one square 
of chocolate, grated, one cup of sugar, beat well, add 
yolks of two eggs, one-half cup of water, one and a 
quarter cups of flour, mixed hard, sifted, with one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
cloves, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Stir in lightly 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiffly. 

INDIA CAKE. SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs, T, K, Egbert, New Yorh 

Half a cup of butter, half a cup of sugar, half a cup 
of molasses, half a cup of sweet milk, one and one-half 
cups of flour, one small teaspoon of cinnamon, one 
small teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon of baking soda, 
two eggs. First mix butter and sugar together, 
then pour in the molasses slowly, the yolks of two ^gs, 
one at a time, then add the milk slowly, stirring all 
the time, then add the spices, then tlie baking soda, 



DESSERTS. 431 

then the flour, lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in layer cake pans and spread the icing between 
the layers. 

ICING FOR INDIA CAKE. 

Three tablespoons of sugar to the white of one egg, 
beaten to a stifiE foam; flavor with vanilla. 

SPIOE CAKE. 

Mrs, Saml. Drayton. 

One and a half cups sugar, and a generous half cup 
of butter creamed together ; add the well beaten yolks of 
three eggs, one cupful of half milk and half water^ and 
then spices as follows: two heaping teaspoons ground 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ground cloves (scant), 
and one-half teaspoon allspice, a pinch of ginger and 
salt, and one half grated nutmeg. Serve the cake hot 
immediately when it comes from the oven. 

PISTACHE CAKE. (EXCELLENT.) 

One-half cup butter, one and a half cups powdered 
sugar, cream well together; add beaten yolks of four 
eggs, one cup of milk, three-quarters of a teaspoon of 
soda, two cups of flour, one and a half teaspoons cream 
tartar, sifted together; add the beaten whites of eggs 
and flavor with vanilla. Bake in two layers. 

PISTACHIO FILLING FOR CAKE. 

White of one egg, one-half egg shell, cold water, one- 
half pound confectioners' sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
orange extract, one-half teaspoonful almond extract, 
color with Burnett green coloring; beat all well togeth- 
er, spread between layer cake, sprinkle with pistachio 
nuts. 



432 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. Wm. K. Jenvey, HoboJcen, N. J. 
One-fourth pound of butter, one-half pound flour, 
five eggs, one pint boiling water. Put butter and 
water on fire and while boiling stir in flour. Remove 
from the fire, add beaten eggs, and stir until cool. 
Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Cream. One- 
half cup flour, one cup sugai, two eggs, beat to a cream 
and add to one pint of boiling milk, flavor to taste. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Miss 8, E. Anness. 
Put one-half cup butter in one cup of boiling water 
in saucepan, add while boiling one cup flour, stir all 
till thick, turn out in cake dish to cool. Then add 
three eggs, beat in one at a time thoroughly, one level 
teaspoonful carbonate ammonia. Butter hands and roll 
into small balls, put in pan and brush over with an 
egg beaten up with one teaspoonful water. Bake in 
hot oven till puffed, then check a little. Filling. One- 
half cup flour, one-half cup granulated sugar. Pour 
over one pint scalded milk, cook over flre till thick, 
then add two whole eggs, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth cup of sugar. 

MACAROONS. 

Mrs, Haines, Rye, N. Y. 
One pound almonds, powdered, two pounds of sugar, 
whites of six eggs, mix, bake in buttered pan in a dow 
oven. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. Haines, Rye, N. Y. 
One-half pound grated cocoanut, one-half pound 
powdered sugar, whites of three eggs. Drop on butter- 
ed paper and bake quickly in a moderate oven. 



DESSERTS. 433 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Miss Chamberlain, 
Take one pound of grated eocoanut, half a pound of 
pulverized sugar, and the whites of four eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. You must have enough of the white of 
egg to wet the sugar and eocoanut. Beat well together 
and drop on buttered plates in drops the size of a five- 
cent piece, and bake. 

HICKORY NUT KISSES. 

Mrs. Howes, Eoselle, N. J. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add one 
pound of granulated sugar, and one cup of hickory nut 
meats chopped rather fine. Drop from teaspoons upon 
buttered paper and bake fifteen minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

KISSES. 

Mrs. Haines, Rye, N. Y. 
Whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mixed 
with two pounds of white sugar. Bake in brown pa- 
per in tins. 

KISSES. 

Miss Lee Oondict. 
Whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, one-half 
pound granulated sugar, wine or vanilla, drop on but- 
tered paper and bake twenty minutes in moderate oven. 

MARGUERITES. 

Miss Sutton, Rye, N. Y. 

Make a very stiff merangue and add a generous quan-J 
tity of chopped peanuts. Spread rather thickly on but- 
ter thin wafers and brown in a rather cool oven. To 
be eaten the same day they are made. 



434 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

MADALINES. 

Jane, Mrs. Oovid's Maid. 

Four ounces of butter, four ounces of sifted pastry 
flour, three ounces of sifted powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of orange flower water, four eggs and grated 
rind of one lemon. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten egg yolks and beat hard for five minutes. 
Gradually beat in the flavoring, lemon rind and flour 
and lastly the stiffly beaten whites. Fill small, deep 
molds, which have been well buttered, and bake from 
half an hour to forty minutes in a moderate oven. 
When cold, cut off the top of each, scoop out the centers 
and fill with thick, sweet cream which has been sweet- 
ened, slightly flavored and whipped to a solid froth. 
Keplace the tops and ice with a white icing, either royal 
or fondant. 

JESSIES. 

Jane, Mrs. Gould's Maid, 

Cream thoroughly one-half of a cupful of butter; 
gradually add one cupful of sifted powdered sugar and 
five teaspoonfuls of sherry, beating well. Add alter- 
nately one-half cupful of milk, two scant cupfuls of 
sifted flour and the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs. 
Beat thoroughly, sift in one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, a pinch of salt, then add one teaspoonful of vanil- 
la and beat again for a moment. Test by dropping a 
spoonful on a saucer. It should hold its shape and 
stand up well; if too soft, add a little more flour, a 
teaspoonful at a time, until the right consistency is at- 
tained. ITien drop by small spoonfuls on buttered pans 
and bake in a rather quick oven; or fill very small, 
shallow molds or cups, and bake. Take from the pans 
when done and set aside. When cold, turn each cake 



DESSERTS. 435 

bottom upward and scoop some from the center. Have 
ready either a thick cooked custard (as for cream puffs) 
or some sweetened whipped cream slightly stiffened with 
a little gelatine. Fill cakes with this mixture. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs, C. W. Cropper, 
Seven tablespoons of granulated sugar, two eggs, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one cup milk (sweet), 
one teaspoon vanilla, butter the size of a walnut, suf- 
ficient flour to make stiff enough to handle — ^try three 
cupsful. Mix sugar, butter, eggs, then add milk and 
flour with the baking powder sifted through. Pry in 
hot lard. If too soft will soak the fat. Try small 
quantity first. 

, CRULLERS. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 
One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, two 
eggs, one cup of milk, one quart fiour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. KoU out on board and cut with cruller 
cutter. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 
One qnd two-thirds cups light brown sugar, one cup 
milk, two tablespoonfuls melted lard, two eggs, fiour 
enough to make stiff, with two teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der added. Grate a little nutmeg into dough and a 
pinch of salt. Roll and fry in hard lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Miss Munsell, Rye, N. Y. 
One quart of milk, one and three-quarter pounds 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, four eggs, 



486 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

two nntmegB, one yeast cake. Make a sponge in the 
mornings with all the milk, yeast and eggs, and half the 
butter and sugar. At night add the remainder with 
sufiScient flour to stiffen it. Next morning make into 
small biscuits and when very light, fry them in boil* 
ing lard. 

FRIED RYE DROP-CAKES. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 

Two cups rye meal, four cups flour, two cups milk, 
four eggs, two level teaspoons soda, four level tea- 
spoons cream of tartar, four big tablespoons sugar. 
Fry the same as doughnuts. 

OOCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New Tarh. 

One cup of butter, one and a half cups of sugar, 
five tablespoonsful of flour, whites of three eggs, two 
, cocoanuts grated. 

CURLED JUMBLES. 

Mrs. W. A. Durrie. 

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
(scant), four eggs, pinch of salt Spread in cirdea 
and very thin on baking tin, and bake in very quick 
oven. When done, hang immediately over broom han- 
dle, which has paper spread upon it. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

Mrs. Haines, Rye, N. Y. 

One cup butter, two and one-half cups of sugar, 
three cups of flour, four eggs, two cups grated chocolate, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, a litle salt, drop in 
the pan with a spoon. 



DESSERTS. 437 

BAYSIDE JUMBLES. 

Mrs, M. Cornell, Bay Side, L. I. 
Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, little nut- 
meg, small half teaspoon of soda dissolved in little 
water, flour enough to roll out. 

felicie's cookies. 
Mrs. M. Cornell, Bay Side, L. 7. 

One cup butter, two cups granulated sugar, four 
whole eggs, one and one-half cups sour cream, tea- 
spoonful of soda, juice of half a lemon, five cups of 
flour. Mix butter and sugar together, put in the eggs 
and work with the hand just enough to mix it. Mix 
soda and cream together and add this. Then add the 
flour. DonH beat at all. Mix always gently with the 
hand. Put the batter in ice box for a few hours, then 
roll very thin, cut with roimd scolloped cutter and bake 
until brown, then remove from oven and sprinkle with 
sugar. Serve when cold. 

cookies. 
Mrs. C- W. Cropper. 

One cup butter, one cup thick sour cream, two cups 
sugar, two eggs, one teasponf ul saleratus, a small quan- 
tity of nutmeg or caraway seed, as preferred. 

SWEDISH OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Mrs. Lee Condict. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, 
one cup raisins chopped, five cups oatmeal, two tea- 
spoonsfuls baking powder, pinch of soda, vanilla, flour 
to thicken, roll thin and cut like cookies. 



438 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

OOOKIBS. 

Miss MunsM, Bye, N. F. 
One and three-quarter cups sugar, one and a half 
butter, one egg, one-half teaspoonful soda, dissolTe in 
Fery little boiling water, then fill cup with sweet cream, i 
three cups flour, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, ' 
rind and half the juice of one lemon. Cream butter , 
and sugar, then the egg without beating, the flavoring [ 
and cream, and lastly the flour. I 

COOKIES. 

Miss Gladys Linn. 
One cup sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, beat, two 
cups flour, one-half teaspoon baking powder. 

LUNCHBON COOKIES. 

Mrs. SamL McBumey. 
Take six cups of well sifted flour, three heaping tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one-half pound of butter, 
(never lard), four eggs, one-quarter cup of sweet milk 
and a pinch of salt. Mix well, roll out thin, sprinkle 
sugar on top. Caraway seed may be added. This recipe 
makes one hundred cookies. 

COOKIES. 

Miss Stella Flanagan. 
One cup butter, one cup sugar, three egss, one and a 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tablespoonful 
milk, just enough flour to hold the dough sufficiently 
to roll. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Charles A. Oreer, Rye, N. Y. 
One and three-quarter pounds of flour, quarter of a 
pound of sugar, half pint of molasses, quarter of turn- 



DESSERTS. 439 



bier of water, two teaspoonfuls cloves, one-half teaspoon- 
fol cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ginger, a little grated 
nntmeg, roll them and cut thin and bake. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Miss Hinds, 
One quart of New Orleans molasses, add three- 
fourths pound equal parts of lard and butter, one 
pound brown sugar, two ounces ginger, a pinch of salt, 
cinnamon, allspice and cloves, one-half a teaspoonful 
of soda in a little milk, one egg, flour enough to make 
soft dough. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. T. K. Chambers. 
One cup granulated sugar, three-fourths cup lard 
and butter mixed, one-half cup sour milk, one cup mo- 
lasses, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
ginger, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt, 
four cups flour. Stir this all together and let stand 
overnight; in the morning mould, cut out and bake. 
Do not use any more flour in moulding than is abso- 
lutely necessaiy. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Mrs. E. F. C. Young. 
One cup of drippings, or one cup of butter and lard 
mixed, one cup of sugar, two cups of molasses, one cup 
of milk, two eggs, three cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in milk; cinnamon and gin- 
ger to taste. Place in pan and bake. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. C. M. Oould. 
One cup butter, one cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, 
two eggs, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and all- 



440 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

spice^ one-half cup sour milk, two teaspoons soda dia- 
solyed in the milk and three cups of flour. Bake in 
slow oven twenty minutes. 

MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. H, C. White, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Two eggs^ one cup beef drippings, two large tea cups 
molasses, a tea cup sour milk or claugh baugh, one tea- 
spoonful baking soda dissolved in the milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls ginger, four teacups of flour added last. Bake 
in dripping pan in moderate oven. 

OINOER BREAD. 

Mrs. 0. E. Perry. 
One-half cup New Orleans molasses, one-half cap 
Porto Kico molasses, one-half cup butter, two eggs, two 
cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
boiling water, one-half teaspoonful ginger. 

MOLASSES CAKE WITH APPLE SAUCE. 

Mrs. 0. R. Chamiers. 
Make a molasses cake and bake in a round tin. Scoop 
out the center and fill with fresh apple sauce. Garnish 
the edge of the serving plate with whipped cream. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

Miss Rita Oray, New York. 
Dissolve a yeast cake into a pint of scalded and cool 
milk, add flour for a sponge. When light add three 
eggs, half a cupful each of sugar and melted butter, a 
teaspoonful of salt and flour to knead. When light 
roll into a thin sheet, brush with butter, dredge with 
cinnamon and sugar, sprinkle with currants, roll, cat 



DESSERTS. 441 



CINNAMON BUNS. 

Mrs. Hamilton Vreeland. 

Mix thoroughly one cup sugar and one-half yeast 
cake, a pinch of salt and flour enough to thicken. Add 
flour slowly, beating quite vigorously until stiff enough 
to knead. Let rise overnight. Boll out in narrow, 
long strips, brush with melted butter and spread cin- 
namon over the surface ; then lay currants or raisins as 
thickly as desired, roll and cut across in strips about 
three-quarters of an inch thick. This makes the buns 
curl. Let rise until very light and brush lightly witli 
melted powdered sugar, after baking. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs, John J. Flagg. 

One pint milk, one yeast cake dissolved in one-half 
cup lukewarm water, one egg, one-half cup butter. Mix 
up and set to rise for two hours, after which mix in 
flour till a soft dough is obtained. Before baking 
spread lightly with butter and sprinkle with cinnamon 
and sugar. 

NEW ENGLAND CAHAWAY CAKES. 

Mrs. C. A, Oould, New York, 

Take one pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, a glass of rose water, 
four eggs, half a teacup of caraway seeds. Bub the 
materials well together and beat up. Drop the cakes 
from a spoon on tin sheets and bake them brown in a 
rather slow oven. Twenty minutes or half an hour is 
enough to bake them. 



442 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

HOT GROSS BUNS. 

Mrs. James Fleming. 

Make a sponge of a cup and one-half of milk, half 
cup of yeast, flour enough to make a thick batter. In 
the morning add two large tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, half a cup of sugar and salt to taste. Work in 
more flour till the dough can be handled, knead well, 
cover and let rise, then roll out about an inch thick 
and cut into round biscuits. Put in a buttered pan 
and let them rise. Cut a cross upon each one, and 
bake. When baked, brush over with the white of an 
egg beaten with sugar. 

RUSK. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 

Two teacups of sugar, not quite a teacup of butter, 
beaten together with two eggs, one pint of sweet milk, 
flour sufficient to make a sponge, a(y^east and set it 
to rise before going to bed. Next nioming mould 
it as bread, and let it rise again, then make into bis- 
cuits. When light bake them, flavoring if wished. 
Melt sugar and place over tops of rusk. 



i 



BEVERAGES. 



CHAPTER XXI 

Plain Lemonade. 
Mrs, T. K. Egbert, New Yorlc. 

Take the juice of six lemons for one quart of lemon- 
ade, remove any ends that may have fallen in, sweeten 
to your taste with granulated sugar, put in cracked ice 
and fill your pitcher either with ApoUinaris, or Seltzer 
water, or Hygeia water which makes a very good lemon- 
ade. Have the water you use ice cold. 

FRUIT LEMONADE. 

Mrs. E. F, C. Young. 

Juice of six lemons, and of two oranges, a little shred- 
ded pineapple. Sugar to sweeten, six glasses of water, 
(the size in wh^ lemonade is to be served). A few 
fresh strawberries or cherries if in season, otherwise 
maraschine cherries. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Mrs. T. K. Brown, New York. 

Make a good New York lemonade by using one lemon 
to a tumbler. Add sugar enough to make it of the 
sweetness your taste wishes — it gains by being on the 
side of sour, that is, in wanting a little in sweetness — 
and then break into the tumbler an absolutely fresh egg. 
Fill the glass nearly full of Vichy, or ApoUinaris, or 
pure cold water, and shake vigorously, having capped the 
tumbler with a metal shaker. When the egg is well lost 
in the liquid, it is ready to drink cold. 



444 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

OBAPB JUIOB. 

Mrs, Ulamor Allen. 
Four quartB juice, one and one-half pints sugar. Wa^ 
the grapes, pick from the bunches, cook enough till thej 
come to a boil. Put all in cheese-cloth and let the juice 
drain out. Place the juice on the fire and let it come to 
a boiling point, when bottle tight. 

FRUIT PUNCH, (excellent.) 

Mrs, Oarret V. Brinherhoff. 
Take the juice of six oranges and six lemons. Grate 
the rind of the oranges and put about four tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water on it and let it stand until it cook 
Then strain and add it to the juice. Cut two bananas 
and two oranges in very small pieces and mix all togeth- 
er with a large cupful of sugar. Let the mixture stand 
about an hour, then add water and sweaten according to 
taste. 

PfiUIT PUNCH. 

Mrs. Elgin L. MacBumey. 
One dozen lemons, one-half dozen oranges, one-hall 
dozen bananas, one can grated pineapple, one bottle 
raspberry shrub. Sugar and water to suit taste. 
Squeez lemons and oranges. Put in the fruit, and last 
of all the sugar previously melted on the stove. 

PRUIT PUNCH. 

Tested, 
Grate one large pineapple, add to it the juice of sii 
lemons and three oranges and the syrup from a can of 
of preserved cherries. Add sugar syrup to taste, and let 
stand for three hours, then strain. Add one quart of 
apollinaris, one pint of shaved ice and one cupful of any 
berries or finely cut fruit. 



BEVERAGES. ' 446 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Table Talk. 

Peel and grate a small pineapple, discarding the 
tough core. Measure and to each cupful add one cupful 
of boiling water and simmer for ten minutes. Add one- 
half of a cupful of freshly made hot tea and a syrup 
made by boiling together for ten minutes one pint of 
water and a pint of granulated sugar. Set aside until 
cold, then strain and add the strained juice of three 
oranges and three lemons, one cupful of grape juice and 
five pints water. This gives a pale violet colored punch. 

BERRY PUNCH. 

Mrs, T, K. Egbert 

Dissolve a half pound of granulated sugar in one 
cupful of water, boil for a moment and set aside. When 
cold, add one pint of the strained juice of freshly 
crushed berries (strawberries, raspberries or blackber- 
ries), the strained juice of a lemon, a pint and a half of 

apoUinaris, one pint of shaved ice, one tablespoonful of 
maraschino and a hdf cupful of berries. 

GRAPEFRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Table Talk. 

Into a glass nearly filled with shaved ice put four 
tablespoonfuls of fruit juice, one tablespoonful of sugar 
syrup, two tablespoonfuls of brandy and one tablespoon- 
ful of maraschino. Stir well for a moment, then strain 
oflf into a cocktail glass, adding a small piece of solid 
grapefruit pulp. 



446 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Table Talk. 

Peel, eye, and chop fine a ripe pineapple. Pour over 
it one pint of boiling water and let stand until cold, 
then drain, pressing to extract as much juice as possi- 
ble. Add one cupful of raspberry or cherry juice, the 
juice of two lemons and a syrup made by boiling one 
pint of sugar with three cupfuls of water. Before 
serving add a bottle of Apollinaris. 

IMPERIAL PUNCH. 

Tested. 

Peel and remove the eyes from a small pineapple and 
cut in thin slices. Put the grated rind of an orange in 
a saucepan with an inch of stick cinnamon and one 
quart of boiling water, cover and steep for an hour. To 
the sliced pineapple add four thinly sliced oranges, the 
strained juice of four lemons, one bottle of hock and 
one of arrack. To this add the strained cinnamon water 
and a half teaspoonsful of vanilla, and set away until 
cold. Add one pint of seltzer water and a bottle of 
champagne and serve at once. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Tested, 

Boil together for five minutes a pound of sugar 
and a quart of water. Add to it the juice of one lemon 
and one cupful of freshly grated pineapple. Let stand 
for an hour, strain, and add shaved icq to fill the punch 
bowl, dropping over the top a cupful of raspberries 
or other fresh fruit. Add Apollinaris. 



BEVERAGES. 447 



ICED ORANGE JUICE. 

Mrs. P. U. Chambers. 
Make a syrup of a cupful of sugar and three-quarters 
of a cupful of water boiled together for ten minutes, 
then set aside until cold. Mix a half-pint of orange 
juice and a gill of lemon juice, and sweeten abundantly 
with the cold syrup. In sweetening this beverage, 
remember that the ice is still to be added, and that 
this, in melting, will dilute the syrup and thus render 
the drink more' acid. Fill tumblers to the brim with 
finely-cracked iq^ and pour the orange mixture upon 
it. This is a refreshing beverage. 

MILK SHAKE. 

Mrs. Seely's Cook Book. 

Have ready some sugar syrup. Sweeten a half- 
pint of unskimmed milk with the syrup ; flavor 
with a half teaspoonful of vanilla extract; turn into 
the glass of your shaker, and add enough crushed ice 
to fill the glass to the brim. Shake long and hard 
before pouring into a chilled tumbler. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Mrs. 0. H. Perry. 

One quart sherry, one-half pound sugar, one gill of 
old Jamaica rum, six lemons, two oranges, one large cup 
of green tea. Peel oranges and lemons very thin, pour 
the boiling tea over the thin rinds, mix the juice and 
sugar together, and add to the other ingredients; add 
the tea when it becoitoes cold, also the rum. Just before 
serving add some chipped ice. 

It is better to mix the punch the day before it is 
to be used. 



448 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Miss Sutton, Rye, N. Y. 

Pour a quaxt of boiling water over a tablespoonfal 
of tea and let it draw until cold. Add to the juice of 
three oranges, three lemons and one shredded pine- 
apple, a pint of sugar. Strain the tea and fruit juices, 
and just before serving add one quart of Apollinaris. 

BALTIMORE E0G-N066. 

Miss Hinds. 
Twenty-four eggs, one gallon of milk, one quart of 
cream, one-fourth pint of Jamaica rum, one-half pint 
of brandy, one nutmeg. Beat the yolks of eggs and 
sugar together until light. Pour in the liquor and stir. 
Then add the milk, and lastly stir in the whites of the 
eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. 

CHRISTMAS BGG-NOGG. 

Mrs, Oarret Van Home. 
Eight eggs beaten to a foam. Beat in those, two 
tablespoons of powdered sugar, next beat in, pouring 
slowly, one teacup of brandy, one-half teacup of Jamaica 
rum. Add one and one-half pints of nulk and beat 
well, lastly stir in very gently (only two or three turns) 
one pint of whipped cream, grate nutmeg over top. 
This will make twelve punch glasses. If desired strong- 
er increase the brandy and rum a little. This is excel- 
lent. 

SOUTHERN EGG-NOGO. 

Mrs. Joseph Similie, Virginia. 
One quart of rich milk, the yolks of four eggs (beat- 
en well), four tablespoonfuls of sugar, eight ounces d? 
whiskey (or brandy), flavor with nutmeg. Shake all 
well together. 



BEVERAGES. 449 

MABYLAND EGO-NOGO. 

Mrs. r. K. Egbert, New York. 
One gallon of milk^ one dozen eggs. Divide the yolks 
from the whites and beat them. Add fifteen tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one grated nutmeg, one pint of brandy, 
one pint of Jamaica rum. Beat the yolks and sugar 
until light, add the brandy and rum, stirring constantly. 
LiEist of all put in one gallon of milk or cream and cover 
with the beaten whites of eggs. 

SOUTHERN CLARET PUNCH. 

Mrs. Donald McLean, New York. 
Four quarts claret, Zinfandel, one pint Jamaica 
rum, two quarts ApoUinaris added last. One dozen 
lemons, sugar to taste, strawberries, mint, and cu- 
cumber. 

CLARET CUP. 

Mrs. Howes, Roselle, N. J. 
Eight lemons with grated rind of two, eight tea- 
spoonfuls of tea with two quarts of water poured over 
it, boiling hot; let stand five minutes, strain and cool. 
Take lemon juice, add to it same quantity of sugar; 
when dissolved add tea, then one quart of claret, one 
wine glass of maraschino wine. Garnish with cherries 
or sliced oranges. 

CLARET CUP. 

Mrs. E. C. Brown, New York. 
Ice the claret in the bottle, also the club soda. Do 
not put ice in the pitcher. Mix one teaspoonful of crush- 
ed mint juice with the juice of one lemon, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, two ponies of brandy, two ponies 
of Curacoa. When thoroughly mixed in a glass pitcher 
add one bottle .of claret and one bottle of club soda 



460 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

fresh from the ice, the thin peel of a whole lemon, a 
few slices of orange and pineapple, and decorate the 
top with a bunch of young mint, which has been 
slightly dampened and sprinkled with powdered sugar 
to give it a frosted appearance. 

RHINE WINK CUP. 

Tested. 
Ice the Rhine wine and club soda in a glass pitcher. 
In a glass pitcher mix one glass of Maraschino with 
one glass of Curacoa. Add one quart of Rhine wine 
and a bottle of club soda. Decorate with thinly sliced 
fruits and place a bunch of verbena on top just before 
serving. Do not have any ice in the pitcher. 

SPANISH CUP. 

Table Talk. 
Boil together for ten minutes one quart of water and 
three cupfuls of granulated sugar, then set aside to 
chill. Add the strained juice of six lemons, two oranges 
and one pint of claret. Just before serving add a bottle 
of plain soda, and serve with chopped ice in the glasses 
or place a large piece of ice in the punch bowl. 

HINT JULEP. 

Tested. 
Strip tender leaves of mint into a tumbler and add 
to them as much wine, brandy, or other spirit as you 
wish to use. Put pounded ice into a second tumbler, 
pour over it the mint and wine, and continue to pour 
the mixture from one tumbler to the other until it is 
flavored with the mint to your taste. The oily flavor 
of the mint is extracted by the particles of ice striking 
the leaves as they pass from one tumbler to the other. 



BEVERAGES. 451 

Finally pack the glass with the julep in a large glass 
with pounded ice. Serve with care not to destroy 
the frost work on the glass. 

SHEBBY GOBBLER. 

Tested. 
Put in a glass five scant tablespoons of Sherry with 
a half a tablespoon of powdered sugar^ one thin slice 
of lemon, and two thin slices of orange, and fill scantily 
with crushed ice. Place the shaker over the glass and 
shake it hard. Garnish with any small fruits in season. 
Candied dierries may be used if fresh fruits are not 
at hand. Serve with two straws. Any still wine may 
be used if preferred to Sherry. 

TO HAKE CHAMPAGNE^ GLABET AND GIDEB GUP. 

Mrs, Charlotte Appleton, Bayside, L. L 
One bottle (quart) of champagne, claret, or other 
wine, one bottle plain soda water, rind of one lemon, 
rind of medium sized cucumber, two small sherry- 
glasses of Curacoa, Chartreuse or Maraschino, sugar 
to taste, and plenty of ice and mint 

Put in lemon and cucumber and rind and powdered 
or granulated sugar, bottle of wine. Stir thorughly and 
add ice. Pour in soda; stir again; add mint. 

MAY WINE PUNCH. 

Miss Lily Spies. 
Binse three bunches of freshy picked woodruflf 
(known in Oerman as Waldmeister) from which all 
dried particles and grasses have been removed and add 
it to a quart of white wine, allowing it to draw 
from thirty to forty minutes. Then remove it and 
strain the wine. Dissolve three quarters of a glass 



452 KIRMESS COOK BOOK, 

of granulated sugar in half a glass of water, and add 
it to the wine; also another quart of white wine, one 
glass of red wine and one pint of champagne. About 
half an hour before serving, add one half box (quart) 
of ripe strawberries to the punch, which impart a 
fine flavor. This punch is best when made from fresh 
woodruff, which is procurable only during the months 
of April and May; however an extract may be made 
from white wine, in which the fresh woodruflE has been 
steeped, and removed. This corked up tighly in a bot- 
tle, without adding anything else, will keep almost any 
length of time and will serve just as well for making a 
good punch any time of the year. When strawberries 
are out of season, pineapple or oranges in slices may be 
substituted. 

PLAIN MILK PUNCH. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Put one wineglassful of brandy or whiskey in a 
tumbler, add a scant tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 
also a little cracked ice. Fill the tumbler with milk, 
shake well, grate over the top a little nutmeg, and 
serve. 

MILK PUNOH. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Use large bar-glass, one-third shaved ice, one tea- 
spoonful powdered sugar, one wine-glass brandy, one 
wine-glass St. Croix rum, one-half wine-glass Jamaica 
rum. Fill up with fresh milk, mix well together, strain 
and serve with a little nutmeg on top. 

LOUIS sherry's champagne punch. 
Miss Lufburrow, New York. 
One gallon of champagne, one-half glass of brandy, 
one glass of Curacoa, one glass of Maraschino, one glass 



BEVERAGES. 453 

of Kirechwasser, juice of two lemons, juice of two or- 
anges. The Kirschwasser can be omitted if desired. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

Madame Masson, Paris, {Mrs. T. K. Egbert) 

Two quart bottles of Moet-Chandon (White Seal), 
eight oranges, three lemons, sugar to taste, ice inclosed 
in pitcher. 

For a good, cool summer drink substitute two sy* 
phons of seltzer in place of the champagne. 

CHAMPAGNB PUNCH. 

Mrs. Oeorge Lowiher, New York. 

One-quarter pound of green tea made and strained, 
twelve lemons, one-half bottle peach brandy, one bottle 
of rum, one pound loaf sugar, one gallon boiling water, 
one quart champagne, one bottle sherry, one-half bottle 
of arrack, one quart brandy, pieces of oranges and lem- 
ons cut in slices on top. The tea must stand until cold 
and mix in the rest. 

MINT PUNCH. 

Tahlt Talk. 

Chop fine a dozen large stalks of mint. Pound one- 
half cupful of powdered sugar and the juice of two 
lemons and let stand for an hour, stirring occasionally. 
Strain, pressing hard. Add the strained juice of four 
more lemons, a syrup made by boiling and chilling a 
half cup of sugar and a pint of water, the sliced yellow 
rind of two lemons and six freshly cut sprigs of mint. 
Stir well, add a quart of shaved ice and two bottles of 
ginger ale, and serve. 



454 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

HOT PUNCH. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 
Dissolve a pound of granulated sugar in three pints 
of hot water, boil for three minutes. Strain, add the 
juice of four oranges and one lemon, a tablespoonful 
each of the finely cut yellow rind of an orange and 
lemon and boil for one minute longer. Take from the 
fire, add one cupful of freshly made green tea and one 
cupful of rum. Strain and serve at once. 

RUSSIAN PUNCH. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 
Put one pint of California claret, two-thirds of a 
cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of whole cloves and 
one cupful of boiling water in a granite saucepan. 
Cover, heat quickly and simmer for five minutes. Strain 
and serve at once in tall glasses. 

KUMYSS. 

Marion Harland. 
Dissolve a third of a yeast-cake in a gill of warm milk 
and add two teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar. Hare 
ready scalded a beer bottle with a patent fastener. If 
you have not this, use an ordinary bottle with a straight 
cork, and soak the cork for half an hour to swell it. 
Fill the bottle three-quarters full of fresh milk, heated 
until just blood-warm, and pour in the yeast-mixture. 
Shake hard for two minutes, and cork tightly. If you 
use an ordinary cork, cord or wire it down. Set the 
bottle in the warm kitchen for six hours, or until the 
contents begin to "work'* and foam. Then set in the 
ice-chest until needed. As one yeast-cake will make 
three bottles of koumiss, it is quite as easy to make that 



BEVERAGES. 455 

quantity at once as it is to prepare one bottle of the 
stimnlating and nourishing beverage. 

KUMYSS. 

Mrs. W. P. Watson. 
One quart of fresh milk, one-third fresh yeast-cake, 
one tablespoon sugar; warm milk to temperature of 
one-hundred degrees. Dissolve yeast in tablespoon of 
warm milk thoroughly, one tablespoon of sugar boiled 
with one tablespoon of water into a syrup, mix thor- 
oughly the three ingredients and pour at once into clean 
warm bottles. Let stand in room, seventy degrees, 
twelve hours; eighty degrees, nine hours; and ninety 
degrees, six hours. Then put in a cool place on sides 
for another six hours. Shake once in a while and al- 
lowing to remain on sides. 

HATZOON. 

Marion Harland. 
Take one and a half ounces of prepared matzoon, 
which you can get at drug stores, and one quart of fresh 
milk. Stir well and place in a pitcher at a temperature 
of from 70 to 90 degrees, for from nine to twelve hours," 
until it begins to thicken like junket; then beat it for 
ten minutes. Bottle in patent-stoppered bottles, and put 
on ice. Fresh matzoon may be made from that which 
you have prepared in this way. You have to buy but 
one bottle to start with. This quantity makes three 
bottles, not quite full, as it effervesces like koumiss. 

GHOOOIATB. 

Tested. 
Two squares Baker's chocolate, cut in pieces and 
placed in a double boiler to melt; while melting, stir 



456 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

frequently, and when all is melted add a cup of warm 
milk very slowly, beating thoroughly all the while; 
when this is well blended, add two more cups of milk 
and boil all together, stirring all the time; cook for 
twenty minutes; about ten minutes before taking off 
the fire, add sugar to taste. Before serving, add a pinch 

of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of Burnett's vanilla 
extract, two teaspoonfuls of orange flower water. A 
little brandy on extra occasions. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Tested. 

Heat two cupfuls of milk, and the same of water. Rub 
six tablespoonfuls of Huyler's chocolate to a thin,smooth 
paste with cold water ; pour the water gradually upon it ; 
put into a saucepan and bring it quickly to a boil. 
Cook thus five minutes, pour in the milk and boil ten 
minutes longer. Sweeten to the taste of each drinker, 
and lay a tablespoonful of whipped cream upon the top. 

If you would make the chocolate particularly good, 
heat a sillibub churn and beat the beverage hard for 
five minutes ; set in a vessel of boiling water on the range 
to get smoking hot; pour out, sweeten, and cap with 
whipped cream. 

COLD COCOA. 

Tested. 
To make one cup, mix one heaping teaspoon of cocoa, 
with sugar to taste, in a little hot water. Then fill the 
glass with rich cold milk or cream. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP. 

Tested. 
Mix three tablespoons of scraped chocolate with one 
pint of boiling water. Let the mixture boil lip, then add 



BEVERAGES. 457 



one pint of sugar, and boil three minutes. When cold, 
add one tablespoon of vanilla. 

Put two tablespoons of the syrup and two of cracked 
ice in a glass, and fill the glass with milk. Add two 
tablespoons of whipped cream. Stir well. 

CHOOA. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert. 

This IB a mixture of chocolate and coffee which is often 
served for luncheons or afternoon receptions . To prepare 
it mix together one cupful of Huyler's grated chocolate 
and one cupful of sugar. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water and stir at the side of the fire until the 
chocolate and sugar have entirely dissolved. Gradually 
blend with this one cupful of boiling water and three 
cupfuls scalding hot milk. Turn into a double boiler, 
cover and cook for ten minutes, then add one pint of 
clear strong drip coffee. Cook for five minutes longer, 
or it may now, if necessary, be kept at the side of the 
fire until needed. At the proper time take off, and add 
and blend a little of it with the well beaten yolks of two 
eggs, stir in one-half of a teaspoonful of vanilla and 
serve at once, dropping a teaspoonful of whipped cream 
into each cup. This quantity will serve from twelve to 
eighteen cupfuls, according to the size of the cup. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Mrs. Sceley's Cook Book. 
Use as much ground coffee as is needed, allowing 
one tablespoon of coffee to one cup of boiling water. 
Place on the range, and when it comes to a boil, un- 
cover and remove from the fire. Let it stand two or 
three minutes, then cover it, and replace over the fire. 



458 KIRMESS CCMDK BOOK. 

The instant it boils^ remove and let it stand five minutes. 
It is then ready to serve. Sometimes an egg is beaten 
up and with a little cold water is mixed witti the coffee 
before the boiling water is poured on. This is to clear it. 

BLACK COFFEE. 

Place six tablespoons of ground coffee in the strainer 
of a drip coffee-pot Pour over it three cups of boiling 
water. Let it stand a minute or two after it has drained 
and then serve. The coffee must be ground very fine 
and the water must be boiling. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 

Make strong black coffee and, while hot, add to it 
one-third as much scalding milk. Cover and set in boil- 
ing water until needed. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Set aside cafe au lait until cold. Fill tumblers half- 
full of cracked ice; sugar to taste, and pour in the coffee. 
Put whipped cream on top. 

COFFEE ENOUGH FOR FIFTY AFTEB-DINNEB CUPS. 

Mrs. T. R. Chambers. 
One pound Mocha and Java, equal parts, wet with 
cold water, and add three eggs. Turn on four quarts 
of cold water and bring to a boil for fifteen minutes. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Mrs. F. L. Sherwood, Hoboken. 
Pour just enough boiling water over three generous 
tablespoons of English breakfast tea to cover it. Let 
it stand a minute, then draw the water off. Pour in 



BEVERAGES, 469 



half a pony of Jamaica mm and three pints of boiling 
water. Leave it to steep for three or four minutes. 
Serve in cups with thin slices of lemon^ powdered sugar, 
and a decanter of Jamaica rum on a tray. 

TEA. I 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
First scald the teapot and then allow one teaspoonful 
of tea for each cup of boiling water, and an extra one 
for the pot. Let stand for a few minutes and then 
serve. English breakfast tea should stand at least five 
minutes before it is served. 

ICE TEA. 

Mrs. Seeley's Cook Book. 
Strain the liquid from the leaves within a few min- 
utes after it is poured on. Set away until cold. Half- 
fill glasses with cracked ice ; add a slice of peeled lemon, 
a squeeze of lemon juice (if desired), and granulated 
sugar to taste. 

ROOT BEEB. 

Marion Harland. 

This wholesome drink, which was made every spring 
in the households of our American forebears, is deli- 
cious as well as healthful, and it is a pity that the use 
of genuine root beer is dying out. The sarsaparilla, 
yellow dock, dandelion, burdock, and hops used for its 
making were all products of the near-by woods and 
fields. Bark of the wild cherry was sometimes put in, 
birch bark also, and elecampane, and the aromatic 
spikenard. In springtime children went out with 
trowel and basket, and their intimate knowledge of the 
growths about them helped to their brewing. 

The roots should be all thoroughly washed and then 



460 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

bruised. To two gallons of water take an ounce each 
of the ingredients. Put the roots in the cold water and 
set them over the fire so that the heating will draw all 
the essences and flavors of the growths. Let them 
steep about half an hour and then strain. Add a pound 
of sugar and about twenty-five drops of the oil of sassa- 
fras or spruce, and, when the brew is cool enough not 
to kill the yeast, add say six or eight tablespoons to the 
above quantity of water, or a dry yeast-cake or two dis- 
solved in a little tepid water. Stir the yeast in well and 
set the brew away in an earthen jar and give it some 
hours to work. After three or four hours it may be bot- 
tled or kept in the jar for immediate drinking without 
bottling. 

CIDER CUP. 

Miss Orenier, New York, 

Pill a pitcher with cracked ice and over it pour one 
quart of cider, add one small spoonful of sugar, and 
one bottle of club soda. Decorate the top with different 
kinds of thinly sliced fruits and a bunch of young mint. 
Serve at once. 

BASPBERRT CORDIAL. 

Contributed. 

Sweeten the berries a little sweeter than for table use, 
and let them stand overnight. In the morning lay in 
a hair sieve over a bowl ; let them remain until evening, 
so as to thoroughly drain; then put the juice into a 
thick flannel bag; let it drain overnight, being careful 
not to squeeze it, as it takes out the brightness and clear- 
ness. Do all this in a cool cellar or it may sour. To two 
pints of juice add one pint of French brandy and sweet- 
en to taste. 



BEVERAGES. 461 

GINGER COBDIAL. 

Contributed. 

Extract the juice from five pounds of currants; add a 
quarter of a pound of green ginger, not broken up and 
bruised, four lemons sliced with seeds taken out; one 
gallon of whiskey; put this in an earthen jar, cover with 
muslin and a plate or cover ; let stand three weeks, stir- 
ring occasionally; strain twice, then add four pounds 
of granulated sugar. When dissolved, bottle. It takes 
about three days to dissolve, with stirring occasionally. 

BLACKBEBBY COBDIAL. 

Mrs. Walter H. Jones. 

A layer of berries and a layer of granulated sugar, 
until a gallon dish is full. Cover with brandy and let 
it stand overnight. Empty into a cheese-cloth bag and 
let it drip without pressing, then bottle the liquid. 
This will keep for years. 



CANDES AND SALTED NUTS. 



CHAPTER XXII 

DELICIOUS CREAM TAFFY. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
One capful of granulated sugar, one-half a teacupf ul 
of molasses, one teacup of cream or milk and a piece of 
batter the size of an egg. Boil over a brisk fire, stirring 
all the time "to crack.'* This may be poured over nuts 
or not, as desired; it may possibly curdle in cooking, but 
it is not spoiled by that. 

COFFEE CBEAMS. 

Mrs. E. H. Cowan, Newark. 
Boil together half cup of strong coffee and two cups 
of sugar, until the syrup strings when it drops from 
the spoon. Bemove from the fire and beat hard until it 
is creamy. Stir in a cupful of chopped nuts and pour 
into a shallow buttered tin to cool. Cut into squares 
after it is quite cold. 

MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Mrs. Rowland, Brooklyn. 
One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful 
butter. Melt butter in kettle, then add sugar and molas- 
ses, and boil until the taffy peels from spoon when 
dipped into cold water; add a pinch of soda just before 
taking from the fire ; pour into buttered pan. As soon as 
taffy is cool enough to handle, pull it imtil cool, then 
break into small pieces. 



464 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

PEANUT BBITTLB. 

Mrs. C. P. Hughes, Detroit, Mich. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar^ one and one- 
half cups chopped peanuts. Put sugar in a saucepan 
and set over fire. When dissolved^ stir in the chopped 
nuts. Pour on the bottom of a buttered pan and roll 
quite thin. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Mrs. J. M. Scott, New Brighton. 

One cup of molasses^ one cup of granulated eagar, 
one-half cup of butter. Flavor with vanilla; pour very 
thin into pans. 

MOLASSES WALNUT CANDY. 

Mrs. C. Hdlsey, Newark. 

Boil a quart of molasses for half an hour^ then add 
a saltspoonful of baking soda and boil until a little 
dropped into cold water becomes brittle. Stir in shelled 
and halved walnuts^ and' pour into greased pan. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Mrs. Woodhull Condict. 

Put half a cake of chocolate in porcelain kettle, add 
two cupfuls of sugar, half cupful of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, one cupful of good sweet milk, a quarter of a 
pound of butter; put kettle on range to boil; test on 
cool plates if it is stiff. Stir into two tablespoonfuls of 
vanilla, pour in greased tins. When cold mark in 
squares with a knife. 



CANDIES AND SALTED NUTS. 465 

MAPLE CARAMELS. 

Mrs. 0. L. Caffery. 

Break two pounds of maple sugar into a quart of 
milk, half cream if you have it, and boil steadily until 
a little dropped into cold water, hardens. Pour into 
greased pans, and as it cools, mark into squares. 

PUDGE. 

Mrs. T. B. Chambers. 

Grate three squares of Baker^s chocolate, add two 
cups granulated sugar, one-half cup rich milk or cream, 
butter one-half size of an egg. Boil hard for six min- 
utes, add one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat until it gets 
creamy, about five minutes. 

PUDGE. 

Mrs. Oeorge M. Culver. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk, one 
tablespoonful of butter. Boil five minutes, flavor with 
vanilla and beat three minutes, pour in buttered pan. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

Miss Qladys Linn. 

Two pounds confectioner's sugar, one large tablespoon 
butter, one-quarter cake Baker's chocolate, one-half cup 
cream. Boil for five minutes, then take from stove and 
stir until thickens, then pour into buttered pans. 

WALNUT PUDGE. 

From Our Cook Book. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one-half cup of 
cocoa, Jbutter one-half size of an egg. Boil until it 



466 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

stringBy without stining. Then add one tea^MXHifol 
Burnett's vanilla. Beat untU it is almost hard ; have 
ready a greased tin ; coyer the bottom thick with walnut 
meatSy and pour mii:ture over this. Mark off in squares. 

WALNUT CANOT. 

Mi88 Munsell. Rye, N. Y. 

Three cups sugar (light brown) , one-half cap milk, 
piece of butter size of a small egg. Boil ten minutes, 
then beat until it begins to harden, and add one cap of 
chopped walnuts. Pour on buttered tins and cat in 
squares. 

RECIPE FOR PENOCHIE. 
Mi88 Oertrude Lyman. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of milk, batter 
size of one-half egg. Boil (usually about twenty min- 
utes) on medium hot fire until it hardens when dropped 
in cold water. Then remove from fire and stir some 
minutes. Beat in chopped hickory or other nuts, and 
pour into buttered tins. 

MEXICAN PENOCHIE. 
Mrs. W. B. Power, California. 

Six cups brown sugar, one cup thick cream, one 
and one-half cups pecan nuts, small pinch of salt, two 
tablespoons butter. Mix sugar, butter and cream well 
together before putting on stove, stir enough to keep 
from burning. Cook until brittle in water, then add 
pinch salt and nuts and stir over fire until mixture tarns 
to sugar on side of saucepan. Pour out on well battered 
pans and cool. 



CANDIES AND SALTED NUTS. 467 

PENOCHIE. 
Mrs. Oeorge M. Culver. 
Four cups of brown sugar, one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful butter, boil fifteen minutes. Take off, add 
one teaspoonful vanilla and one pound English walnuts 
broken in pieces. Beat thoroughly and pour in a 
buttered pan. 

CHOCOLATE CBEAMS. 

Mrs. C. De Witt. 
Boil together for five minutes half a cup of cream and 
two cups of granulated sugar. Set the dish in another 
of cold water and stir till the cream is hard enough to 
make into balls, first flavoring with vanilla. Melt the 
chocolate, and dip in the balls. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Mrs. Seelif's Cook Book. 
Beat the white of an egg light with a teaspoonful of 
sugar, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and enough confec- 
tioner's sugar to make a mixture stiff enough to be rolled 
into balls. Beat very smooth, then form into balls the 
size of a small marble, and spread in a pan to get stiff 
and firm. Cover with a chocolate coating. 

CHOCOLATE COATING FOB CREAMS. 

Melt sweetened chocolate in a double boiler. Bun a 
thick skewer into each cream ball and dip in the melted 
chocolate until thoroughly coated. Spread on buttered 
tins to dry ; or, spread upon waxed paper. 

CHOCOLATE HARSHMALLOWS. 

Buy two ounces of finely powdered white gum arabic 
and let it standi covered with eight tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, for an hour. Put it then into a double boil- 



468 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

er, and let it heat slowly until the gam is dissolved. 
Strain through a cheese-cloth, wash out the double boil- 
er and return the gum arabic to this with seven ounces 
of powdered sugar and two tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate. Stir over the fire for about three-quarters of 
an hour. At the end of this time the mixture should 
be stiff. Take from the fire, beat rapidly for two min- 
utes, put in a teaspoonful of vanilla, and pour into a pan 
which has been well dusted with corn-starch. When 
cold cut into squares. 

TO CRTSTAUZE NUTS OR ORANGES. 

Mrs. F. D, Oray. 

Take one cup of sugar, one small cup 6f water, and 
tlie juice of a lemon; let this boil imtil the syrup 
when dropped from a spoon looks like fine white hairs 
and is brittle; then dip small pieces of oranges into 
this and lay them on buttered plates to dry. The 
whole meats of English walnuts can be crystalized 
in the same manner. 

CANDIED VIOLETS. 

Miss Louise Edge. 

Press the petals of the violets softly in a cloth to 
free them of all moisture, weigh, then take an equal 
weight of sugar and boil it together with a little water 
until it is thick. Boil the petals in this syrup until 
they look clear, drain on a sieve and dust with fine 
crystallized sugar. Whenever the petals absorb the 
sugar, sift more sugar over them on both sides. Be- 
peat this process until the surface is dry and covered 
with fine crystals of sugar. 



MAPLE CREAM. 

Mrs, Lee Condi ci. 
Two cups brown sugar, half cup cream, two table- 
spoons maple syrap, big piece butter, vanilla, chopped 
tigs or nuts. Boil ten minutes and beat until creamy, 
then add nuts or figs. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Mrs, Jacob Wortendyke. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of chopped peanuts, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. When the sugar has melted 
thoroughly add the nuts, then the vanilla, mix well 
and pour on pans that have not been buttered. When 
nearly cool cut in squares. 

WALNUT CREAM. 

Mrs, Jacob Wortendyke, 
Three cups of brown sugar, one cup of cream, one 
aad a half cups of chopped nuts, one dessertspoonful 
of vanilla. 

FRUIT GLACE. 

Mrs, Lee Condict. 
One full cup white sugar, scant half cup water, pinch 
of cream of tartar, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. Boil 
until brittle, drop in English walnuts or quarters of 
oranges and cool on glazed paper. 

FRUIT GLACE. 

Mrs, Jacob Wortendyke, 
One cup of sugar, half cup of water, two teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar and a pinch of cream of tartar. Dip 
fruit in this mixture. 



CANDIES AND SALTED NUTS. 469 

STUFFED DATES. 

Mrs. Baird, Tankers, N. Y. 
First slice the dates and fill with English walnut 
meats cut in halves. Dust with powdered sugar. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL OB GRAPE FRUIT. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Cut orange or grape fruit, peel in long strips like 
straws^ cover with boiling water and cook and drain. 
Then cook one pound of sugar to one pound of peel, 
until rich. Spread out in platters and sprinkle dry 
sugar over it. 

COOOANUT CREAM CANDT. 

Miss Potter, Portchester, N. Y. 
Two cups of sugar, one-half pint cream, cocoanut 
enough to thicken; boil eighteen minutes on a chafing 
dish; stir until granulated, add vanilla before stirring; 
don't stir while boiling. 



SALTED NUTS. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Blanch the almonds in boiling hot water. Melt a 
tablespoonful of butter, and let the almonds stand in it 
an hour. Put a tablespoonful of salt into a dish; stir 
in the nuts until all are lightly covered with salt; 
spread on a shallow tin and set in a warm oven to 
brown delicately. More or less salt may be used, ac- 
cording to taste. Peanuts are salted in the same way, 
except that they do not need blanching, as the brown 
hull comes off easily. 



470 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Mrs. 0. K. Diclcinson. 

Blanch one poand of almonds. Boil eight minutes in 
water with one cupful of salt. Drain and saut^ quickly 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Mrs. Wilbur Smith, Batavia, N. T. 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water over 
them, allowing them to stand until skin may be easily 
removed; dry on a towel. Rub the bottom of a pie tin 
with almond oil, placing a small quantity in center of 
tin, place almonds on tin in a hot oven. Sprinkle salt 
over them. Shake about in pan occasionally. When 
brown remove from oven, place in cheese-cloth. Shake 
well. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Clayhom, Mrs, Oould's Butler. 

One pound of almonds, put in hot boiling water, let 
it set three minutes; take off the skin, put over the stove 
for ten minutes and dry them out Use sweet 
almond or olive oil; just spread the oil over 
the bottom of the pan with a clean piece of cheese- 
cloth, then put your almonds in and put in the oven, 
don't cook too fast. When done put on a large piece of 
brown paper and apply your salt to suit your taste. Let 
them stand an hour before serving. 



CHAHNG DISH DAINTIES. 



CHAPTER XXm 

The radpei without nune are taken from "Chafing DIah Dafaities," by 
Janet McKenile HIU, Boston. 

OY8TES8. 

Mrs. T. K. Egbert, New York. 
Put into the blazer twenty-five to fifty choice oysters. 
As soon as they are hot and look plump^ add salt^ pep- 
per and butter. Serve on buttered toast or crackers. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of cream or half a tablespoon- 
f ul of lemon juice before serving, if desired. 

CURRIED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, one-fourth cup of butter, one 
small mild onion, one tablespoonful of curry-powder, 
one-fourth cup of flour, one cup of oyster liquor, one 
cup of white stock, one-half a cup of thick tomato pulp, 
salt and pepper to taste. Method. — Bring the oysters 
to the boiling point in their own liquor, skim, drain, and 
set aside. Heat the butter in the blazer, saut^ in it 
the onion cut in slices, stir in the flour and curry-pow- 
der mixed with the salt and pepper, and, when frothy, 
add the oyster liquor, stock and tomato pulp (a pint of 
pulp reduced by slow cooking to half a cup). When the 
sauce boils, add the oysters; and when hot serve on 
buttered toast or fried bread. 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, four tablespoonfuls of butter, 
yolks of two eggs, one-half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, one tablespoonful of flour, pepper, salt, 



472 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

cayenne. Method. — Brown the butter and add to it 
the parsley^ seasonings and flonr; let heat^ then add the 
well-drained oysters, and, when the edges begin to 
curl, add the well-beaten yolks. Serve on wanned 
plates, with fried bread and parsley. 

OTSTSR SAUTB. 

Wash and drain the oysters, season with salt and 
pepper, roll in fine crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then roll 
in crumbs again. Put a little olive oil or clarified but- 
ter in the blazer; when it is heated, put in the oysters, 
brown them on one side, turn, and brown on the other 
side. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

With a fork pressed into a butter ball, rub over the 
bottom of the hot blazer. Then cover the surface 
with small rounds of toast, and put one or two un- 
cooked oysters on each round; cover, and cook until 
plump, dust with salt and pepper, and put a bit of 
butter on each oyster. Serve, when the butter has 
melted, with slices of lemon. 

PANNED OYSTERS Wmi MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Cook as before. Have ready two tablespoonfuls of 
butter beaten to a cream; add a few grains of salt 
and paprika, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and, by degrees, the juice of half a lemon. Spread up- 
on the oysters before serving. 

OYSTER CROMKSKIES. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor over a quick 
fire. When plump wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon, 
and fasten with a small skewer (wooden toothpick). 
Saut6 in the blazer, heated very hot. Serve on thizi 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 473 

rounds of toast. These cromeskies are most easily 
cooked in a double broiler, resting on a dripping-pan, 
in a hot oven. 

OTSTEBS^ 

One pint of solid oysters, four tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one tablespoonf ul of lemon juice, one scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, beaten yolks 
of two eggs. Method. — Put the oysters into the blazer. 
When they look plump and the edges curl, put the 
blazer into the hot-water pan and add the seasonings. 
Add a few spoonfuls of the liquor from the pan to the 
yolks of the eggs, and, after mixing well, pour into 
the chafing dish. Stir constantly until the liquor thick- 
ens, then serve on thin slices of buttered toast, or on 
thin crackers. 

SHRIMPS. 

Mrs. Gordon K. Dickinson. 

Put into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half an onion, grated or minced very fine. 
When hot, stir in half a cup of cold rice, carefully 
boiled; add a gill of cream, and half a pint of fresh 
shrimps; add a tablespoonf ul of tomato sauce. Stir 
well until it comes to the boiling point, then let it 
simmer for about five minutes. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBUBGH. 

Mrs. Gordon K. Dickinson. 

Take the nicest part of two small or one large 
lobster, cut into small slices; put in the chafing-dish 
with a tablespoonf ul of butter ; season well with pepper 
and salt; pour over it a gill of wine. Cook ten minutes; 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs and half a pint of 
cieam. Let all come to a boil, and serve immediately. 



474 KIRMESS CCX)K BOOK. 

SHRIMPS A LA NEWBURGH. 

Mt8. Howes, Roselle, N. J. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one egg, half a pint of cream, a dash of red 
pepper, one can of shrimps, salt to taste. Put butter 
in a chafing-dish, let it melt, beat up the egg, adding 
the cream and com starch to egg, salt and pepper. 
When the butter has melted add the cream, etc. When 
thick put in shrimps. When ready to serve add sherry. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURGH. 

Meat of two medium-sized lobsters, two tablespoon* 
fuls, each, of sherry wine and brandy, four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one-half a teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter 
teaspoon of pepper, grating of a nutmeg, yolks of four 
eggs, one cup of cream. Remove the meat from the 
shells and cut it into delicate slices. Put the butter in 
the blazer, and, when it melts, put the lobster into it 
and cook four or five minutes. Add the salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, wine and brandy. Stir the cream into the 
beaten yolks, and then stir both into the lobster mixture. 
Serve as soon as the eggs thicken the sauce. 

PLAIN LOBSTER. 

Pour three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice over the 
meat of one lobster and season with salt and pepper. 
Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and, 
when it is melted, add the prepared lobster; stir until 
hot and serve at once. 

CLAMS A LA NEWBURGH. 

Use one quart of clams. Separate the hard from the 
soft parts of the clams. Chop the hard parts fine. 
Substitute the soft and the chopped parts of the clams 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 475 

for the lobster and proceed as for lobster k la New- 
burgh. 

Oyster, chicken, turkey or sweetbread k la Newburgh 
may be prepared by substituting one of the above 
ingredients for the lobster. 

FINNAN HAODIE FOR THE CHAFINQ DISH. 

Mrs. Charlotte L. Appleton, Bay Side, L. L 

One-haJf pound finnan haddie, one dessert spoonful 
butter, one hard-boiled egg, yolk of one raw egg, one 
cup of cream, one teaspoonful dry grated cheese. 
Break the fish into bits, put it on to braize with the 
piece of butter; add the other ingredients; cook five 
minutes; thicken with flour, season with salt, pepper 
and cayenne. Cook after adding the thickening and 
serve on buttered toast. 

EGGS A LA MAITRE D 'HOTEL. 

Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
when hot, stir in three or four onions cut very fine, and 
cook until a light brown. Add a table6p6onful of fiour, 
stirring constantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a 
little finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Add six 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. When hot, serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Beat six eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika and 
six tablespoonfuls of milk or cream. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the blazer, pour in the egg mix- 
ture, and stir and scrape from the blazer as it thickens. 
Just before it comes to the proper consistency, sprinkle 
in half a cup of grated Parmesan cheese, still stirring 
as before, and turn down the flame or set the blazer 



476 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

into the bath. American dairy cheese may be used 
instead of the Parmesan. 

80BAMBLED EGGS WITH 8M0KSD aALHON. 

Cook half a cup of smoked salmon, cut into thin 
strips, in a tablespoonf ul of butter three or four min- 
utes; then add to the eggs just before the cooking is 
finished. 

8CRAHBLBD EGGS A LA UNION CLUB. 

Heat one can of pimentos (sweet red peppers) in 
boiling salted water; drain, and serve on rounds of 
buttered toast the pimentos filled with eggs scrambled 
with mushrooms or tru£9es. Pour around the pimentos 
a pint of well-seasoned brown sauce, to which one-third 
a cup of maderia has been added. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH DRIED BEEF. 

Cut half a pound of dried beef, sliced thin, into short 
match-like strips, cover with boiling water, drain at 
once, and add six eggs, beaten slightly, and one-fourth 
a cup of milk. Put two tablespoonf uls of butter into 
the blazer; when hot add the eggs and other ingredi- 
ents, and stir and cook until the eggs are set. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

Have ready a pint of tomato pulp, from which the 
seeds have been removed, seasoned with onion, celery 
or parsley, and sweet herbs. Put a generous table* 
spoonful of butter into the blazer; add the tomato, and, 
when hot, six eggs, slightly beaten, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir until the 
contents are of a creamy consistency. Serve with 
brownbread toast. 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 477 

SUIKRED EGGS. 

Butter four or five shirring-dishes. To half a cup 
of grated bread crumbs and half a cup of chopped 
chicken or ham add enough cream to mix to a smooth, 
moist consistency, like butter. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Put a tablespoonful of the mixture 
into each dish, break in an egg, season with a dash of salt 
and pepper, cover with more of the mixture, and cook 
in the same manner as eggs k la Parisenne. Serve in 
the cups. 

EGGS. 

Creole Style. 
Have prepared on a hot serving-dish a can of toma- 
toes, stewed until they are reduced to a scant pint, and 
upon the tomatoes rounds of buttered toast for each 
egg to be served. Break some eggs, one by one, into a 
cup, and turn them into the blazer two-thirds filled 
with hot water; turn the flame low and put on the 
chafing-dish cover; if the water boils, turn down the 
flame. When the eggs are nicely poached, remove 
with a skimmer to the toast. Pour out the water and 
melt in the blazer, browning if desired, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice; heat to the boiling point, dust the eggs with 
salt and pepper, pour over the sauce, and serve. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES. 

Make a sauce of one-fourth a cup, each, of butter 
and flour, one tablespoonful of curry powder, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a pint of milk; 
add half a teaspoonful of onion juice, one cup of cooked 
peas, half a cup, each, of potato balls, turnips cut into 
cubes or fanciful shapes, and carrots cut into straws. 



478 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

POTATOES A LA KAITRB d'HOTEL. 

One pint of potato balls, cut with French cutter, and 
cooked tender, may be used either hot or cold, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonf uls of butter, two yolks of eggs, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful 
of parsley, finely chopped, one-half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper. Method : Heat the milk and po- 
tatoes in the blazer over hot water. Cream the butter 
and add the yolks of the eggs, beating them in well ; add 
the parsley and seasoning, mix thoroughly, and, when 
the potatoes are hot and have absorbed part of the milk 
stir the egg and butter into them; add the lemon 
juice and serve at once. 

WHITE HASHED POTATOiSS. 

Butter the blazer and put into it about three cups 
of cold chopped potato, salted during the chopping. 
Pour over the potato a little hot stock or water, scatter 
Rome bits of butter over the top. Cover and cook 
slowly, without stirring or browning, until thoroughly 
heated. 

KORNLET OYSTERS. 

To one cup of komlet add two well-beaten eggs, 
two tablespoonf uls of flour, a scant half teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of paprika. Drop, by spoonfuls, into a 
hot, well-oiled blazer and cook to a golden brown, turn, 
and brown the other side. 

KORNLET OYSTERS. 

To one can of komlet add a teaspoonful of soda, two 
well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper, and enough fine 
cracker crumbs to hold the mixture together. Drop 
from a spoon and cook as above. 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 479 

SAUTE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs. Gordon K. Dickinson. 

Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
i^hen melted^ add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
constantly. When smooth, add salt, pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, a little mushroom 
ketchup, and half a pint of boiling water, into which 
a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. Add 
the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 

TOMATO RAREBIT. 

Mrs, Oeorge M. Culver. 

One quart tomatoes, one small onion (chopped flne) ; 
one-half pound cheese (cut in small pieces), four to six 
eggs, salt, red pepper, and mustard. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish and 
saut£ the onion, add the tomatoes and when hot stir in 
the cheese. When the cheese is melted add the eggs, 
well beaten, and the salt, pepper and mustard. 

Cook until thick and serve on toast. 

ASPARAGUS PEAS. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks of asparagus and cut 
the tender portions into pieces one-fourth an inch long. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain, and 
keep the peas hot. For three cups of peas make one cup 
of drawn-butter sauce, using as liquqid the water in 
which the asparagus was cooked, or white stock. Add 
the peas to tiie sauce; beat the yolks of two eggs, add 
half a cup of cream, and stir into the sauce and peas; 
add, also, one tablespoonful of butter. Serve on crou- 
tons of fried bread, or in cases made of shredded-wheat 
biscuit. 



480 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



PRE8H MUSHBOOHS AND 8WEETBBSADS. 

Soak one pair of sweetbreads in cold water; cover 
with boiling salted water and let boil three minutes, 
then simmer twenty minutes; cool, and cut in small 
cubes, sauti in two tablespoonfuls of hot butter sufficient 
mushrooms caps, peeled and broken into pieces to make 
with the sweetbreads two cups and a half. Make a 
sauce in the blazer, using one-fourth a cup, each, of 
butter and flour, one cup of chicken stock and half a 
cup of cream ; add the sweetbreads and mushrooms, one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, and, if desired, the yolks 
of two eggs, beaten and diluted with one-fourth an egg, 
dilute with four tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir into 
the peas. Serve as soon as the egg thickens slightly. 

HU8HBOOK CBOKE8KIB8. 

Peel the caps of fresh mushrooms; wrap each mush- 
room in a slice of bacon pinning the bacon around the 
mushroom with a wooden toothpick. Saut£ in a hot 
blazer and serve on toast. These are particularly good 
cooked in a hot oven in a double broiler resting over 
a baking-pan. 

SWEETBREADS SAUTED. 

Split parboiled sweetbreads into two pieces. Wipe 
dry, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour ; or season with 
salt and pepper, and egg-and-bread-crumb them. Saut^ 
in the blazer in hot olive oil, or butter, until nicely 
browned on both sides. Serve with French peas or 
tomato sauce. 

CHICKEN WITH MUSHBOOHS. 

Melt one-fourth a cup of butter in the blazer; add 
six mushroom caps, peeled and sliced, and cook slowly. 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 481 

with a teaspoonful of grated onion, about six minutes; 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir until smooth, then 
add one cup of cream, stock or milk, pepper and salt, 
and a few grains of mace. When the sauce boils, stir 
in one pint of chicken, finely chopped, and serve as soon 
ae hot. Sweetbreads, lamb or veal may be served in 
the same manner. 

CHOPPED BEEF. 

Chop half a pound of raw beef, from the tender part 
of the round, very fine. Rub the bottom of the hot 
blazer with butter, put in the meat with one teaspoon- 
ful of grated onion, stir, and cook four or five minutes; 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper, and 
serve at once. This is good with bread, but better with 
baked potatoes. A pound of beef may be cooked at one 
time in a chafing-dish of good size, and the grated 
onion increased to suit the taste. The juice, of which 
there will be a large quantity, may be thickened with 
flour and butter creamed together, but it is better un- 
thickened. 

DEVILED BEEF. 

Mrs. P. H. Elkins, Philadelphia. 
From the cold roast of beef cut as many slices as are 
needed. Have ready some mild French mustard to 
which is added a little tarragon vinegar, salt and a 
liberal sprinkling of coarse black pepper; then blend 
with it an equal quantity of soft creamed butter. 
Spread each piece of meat with this. When at the 
l^ble melt a teaspoonful of butter in the heated cha- 
fing-dish, lay in a few slices of meat (spread side up- 
wards) at a time, and cook quickly until the edges 
curl. This, with the sandwiches, will make a very tasty 
combination. 



482 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Mrs, F. W. Eveleth. 

Two and a half pounds of cheese, cut fine, one-half 
cup beer. Place in upper pan of chafing dish, over hot 
waterpan. Stir until melted. Dissolve one teaspoon 
of mustard in tablespoon of beer, and add with the 
yolks of two eggs. Boil a moment, and serve on 
crackers. 

WELSH RAREBIT. • 

One tablespoonful of butter, one-half a pound of 
cheese, cut fine or grated, one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of paprika, one-half a cup of cream, the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Method: — Melt the butter, 
add the cheese and seasonings, and stir until melted; 
then add the eggs, diluted with the cream, and stir until 
smooth and slightly thickened. Do not allow the mix- 
iure to boil at any time in the cooking; if necessar}', 
cook over hot water. Serve on tliin crackers, hot 
shredded-wheat or granose biscuit, or on bread toasted 
on but one side, placing the rarebit on the untoasted 
side. 

OYSTER RAREBIT. 

Clean and remove the hard muscles from half a pint 
of oysters; parboil the oysters in the chafing-dish in 
their own liquor until the edges curl, 'then remove to 
a hot bowl. Put one tablespoonful of butter, half a 
pound of cheese broken in small bits, one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful, each, of salt and mustard and a few grains 
of cayenne into the chafing-dish. While the cheese 
is melting, beat two eggs slightly, and add to them the 
oyster liquor; mix this gradually with the melted 
cheese, add the oysters, and turn at once over hot toast. 



CHAFING DISH DAINTIES. 483 



SARDINE RAREBIT. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add half a pound 
of fresh cheese, grated or broken into bits, and stir 
constantly while it melts ; then add gradually the beaten 
yolk of an egg, diluted with two-thirds a cup of cream. 
Stir until smooth and slightly thickened; season with 
a scant half a teaspoonful of paprika, one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt and a few drops of tabasco sauce. 
Have ready a box of sardines, drained, broiled care- 
fully and laid on the untoasted side of bread toasted on 
one side; pour the rarebit over the sardines and serve 
at once. 

GOLDEN BUCK. 

Prepare a rarebit in one chafing-dish; break Some 
eggs into the blazer of another containing salted ^aier 
just "off the boil." When the eggs are poached and 
the rarebit ready, place an egg above the rarebit on 
each slice of toast. 



USEFUL INFORMATION. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

. BULES FOR BOILING MEAT. 

Mrs. Seeley'a Cook Booh, 

All freeh meat, unless for soup, should be put into 
boiling water. The outer part is contracted by the 
heaty and the juices are preserved. The meat should be 
allowed to cook very gently and no salt added until it 
is nearly done. 

In boiling meats it is important to keep the water 
constantly boiling, otherwise the meat will absorb the 
water. Be careful to add boiling water if more is need- 
ed. Semove the scum when it first begins to boil. Allow 
about twenty minutes for boiling for each pound of 
fresh meat. The more gently the meat boils, the more 
tender it will be. 

TO BBOIL MEAT WELL. 

Have your gridiron well greased and hot before you 
put the meat on. Broiling is not only the most rapid 
manner of cooking meat, but is justly a favored one. It 
has nearly the same effect upon meat as roasting. The 
albumen of the meat is hardened and forming a skin it 
retains the juices. Broiling meat should be turned 
rapidly in order to produce an equal effect, but it should 
not be punctured with a fork. 



486 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

RULES 70R ROASTING MEAT. 

In roasting beef it is necessary to have a brisk fire. 
Baste often. Twelve minutes are required for every 
pound of beef. Season when nearly done. 

Clean meats by wiping them with a cloth kept for 
that purpose. Do not put meat into water. 

READ THIS ADVICE. 

In cooking follow as far as possible the rule of the 
druggist in compounding any mixture, that is^ mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, putting in one at a time. For 
instance: If you have throe ingredients, mix two before 
adding the third; and stir in the third well before 
adding a fourth, and so on. All compounds gain from 
following this rule. 

The value of a pan of hot water in cooking cannot 
be overestimated. Set in the upper oven, it insures good 
baking. If the oven becomes too hot, use cold water in 
the upper pan. In heating vegetables, canned com for 
instance, upon the top of the range, setting the sauce- 
pan in a pan of hot water saves much labor and watch- 
ing. Besides this, the use keeps saucepans in good 
condition until fairly worn out. All breakfast grains or 
cereals should be cooked in this manner. A pan of hot 
water furnishes a double boiler ready at hand at all 
times. 

A most important kitchen utensil is a good set ot 
scales and weights. They are indispensable to assure 
success in cooking. Without them there is no precision 
in proportioning the various ingredients. Therefore it 
is absolutely necessary to have a set of scales. The cook 
should bear in mind, always to put the weights away in 



USEFUL INFORMATION. 487 



their place and to keep the scales in thorough order. In 
weighing anything of a greasy nature the cook should 
place a piece of paper on the scales. By doing this she 
will save herself much trouble^ and keep her scales clean. 

Milk and butter should be kept in closely covered ves- 
sels so they will not absorb ordors from other articles. 

The time during which an article is coming to the 
boiling point, cannot be counted in any rule or measure 
for boiling. 

Always use porcelain-lined pans for cooking fruits 
or an acid preparation. 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING. 
BOILING. 

Asparagus, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
Beans, string, twenty to thirty minutes^ 
Beans, lima, one-half hour. 
Beef, corned, or k la Mode, three to five hours. 
Beets, four to five hours. 
Brussels sprouts, ten to fifteen minutes. 
Cabbage, one hour. 
Carrots, one hour. 

Cauliflower, twenty to thirty minutes. 
Celery, twenty to thirty minutes. 
Chicken, ten minutes to each pound. It depends on 
the age of the chicken. 
Clams, cook until they just come to a boil. 
Coffee, three to five minutes. 
Com, sweet, boiling water, five to eight minutes. 
Corn-meal, three hours. 
Eggs, hard-boiled, twenty minutes. 
Eggs, soft-boiled, three minutes. 



488 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Fish, cubical, such as cod, halibut, etc., twenty min- 
utes for each pound. 

Fish, long and whole, six to ten minutes for each 
pound. 

Ham, five hours. 

Hominy, fine, one hour. 

Mutton, two to three hours. 

Oatmeal, rolled, one-half hour. 

Onions, forty-five minutes. 

Oysters, cook until they just come to a boiL 

Peas, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Parsnips, forty-five minutes. 

Pigeon, potted, two hours. 

Potatoes, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Rice, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Soup stock, three to six hours. 

Spinach, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Squash, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Tea, to steep three to five minutes. 

Tomatoes, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Tongue, three to four hours. 

Turnips, yellow, one and a half hours. 

Turnips, white, one hour. 

Veal, per pound, eighteen to twenty minutes. 

Salt meats should be put into cold water and boiled 
slowly, that the salt may be extracted in cooking. 

A red pepper dropped into the water will prevent the 
rising of any unpleasant odor. 

For making soup put the meat on the fire in cold 
water. 



USEFUL INFORMATION. 489 

BAKING AND BOASTING. 

Beans, eight to ten hours. 

Beef, braised, three to four hours. 

Beef, fillet of, thirty minutes. 

Beef, roast, rare, twelve to fifteen minutes per pound. 

Biscuit, rolls, twenty minutes. 

Bread, forty to sixty minutes. 

Cake, sponge, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Cakes, thin, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Chicken, one to one and one-half hours. 

Custards, twenty to forty-five minutes. 

Duck, canvasback and redhead, eighteen minutes. 

Duck, tame, one to one and one-half hours. 

Fish, cubical or thick, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Fish, small and whole, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Gems, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Lamb, one and one-fourth to one and one-half hours. 

MuflSns, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Mutton, one and one-quarter to one and one-half 
hours. 

Patties, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. 

Pies, thirty to forty minutes. 

Pork, two to three hours. 

Potatoes, thirty to sixty minutes. 

Pudding, twenty to forty-five minutes. 

Scalloped dishes, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Turkey, two to three hours. Per pound, fifteen min- 
utes. 

Veal, two to three hours. 



490 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

FIIYIXO. 

Have fat at a boiling heat. 

Bacon, fried in its own fat, two to three minutes. 

Chops, breaded, five to eight minutes. 

Croquettes, one minute. 

Doughnuts, three to five minutes. 

Fish balls, one minute. 

Fish, breaded, five to eight minutes. 

Fish, small, two to five minutes. 

Fritters, three to five minutes. 

Potatoes, two to five minutes. 

STEAMING. 

Brown bread, three hours. 

Puddings, one quart or more, two to three hours. 

liice, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

BROILING. 

Bacon, four to eight minutes. 
Birds, six to eight minutes, 
('hicken, fifteen minutes per pound, 
('hops, six to eight minutes. 
Fish, small and thin, five to eight minutes. 
Fish, thick, twelve to fifteen minutes. 
Liver, four to eight minutes. 
Squab, ten to fifteen minutes. 
Steak, one inch thick, six to eight minutes. 
Steak, one and one-half inches thick, eight to ten 
minutes. 

Tripe, four to eight minutes. 



USEFUL INFORMATION. 491 

TABLE OF PBOPORTIONS. 

One cup liquid to three cups flour for bread. 
One cup liquid to two cups flour for mufSns. 
One cup liquid to one cup flour for batter. 
Liquid scant, flour full measure. 
One teaspoonful soda to one pint sour milk. 
One teaspoonful soda to one cup molasses. 
One-fourth teaspoonful salt to one quart custard. 
One teaspoonful salt to one quart water. 
One-fourth teaspoonful salt to one cup white sauce. 
One-eighth teaspoonful white pepper to one cup white 
sauce. 

One-eighth teaspoonful salt equals one pinch. 

PROPORTIONS. 

Four to six eggs to one quart of milk for custards. 

Two to four eggs to one pint of milk for custards. 

One saltspoonful of salt to one quart of milk for cus- 
tards. 

One teaspoonful of vanilla to one quart of milk for 
custards. 

Two ounces of gelatine to one and three-fourths 
quarts of liquid. 

Four heaping tablespoonfuls of corn-starch to one 
quart of milk. 

Three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one 
cupful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one-half pint of molasses. 

One teaspoonful of baking powder is the equivalent of 
one-half teaspoonful of soda and one teaspoonful* of 
cream of tartar. 



492 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

WEIGHTS AND KEASURES. 

Four gill8=one pint. 

Two pint8==one quart 

Four quarts=aone gallon. 

Sixteen ounee8=one pound. 

One-half kitchen cupful=one gill. 

One kitchen cupful=one-half pint, or two gilk. 

Four kitchen cupf ul8=one quart. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
Two and one-half, cupfuls of powdered sugar 
=one pound. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar=one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter 
Butter size of an egg 
=two ounces or one-fourth cupful. 

One cupful butter=one-half pound. 

Four cupfuls of flour 
One heaping quart 
=one pound. 

Eight round tablespoonfuls of dry material=pne 
cupful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid=one cupful. 



USEFUL INFORMATION. 



498 



TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 



2 cups butter (packed solidly) 1 pound. 

4 cups flour (pastry) 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2 2-3 cups powdered sugar. 

3 1-2 cups confectioner's sugar, 

2 2-3 cups brown sugar, 

2 2-3 cups oatmeal, 

4 3-4 cups rolled oats 

2 2-3 cups granulated com meal 

4 1-3 cups rye meal, 

1 7-8 cups rice, 

4 1-2 cups Graham flour, 

3 7-8 cups entire wheat flour, 

4 1-3 cups coffee, 

2 cups finely chopped meat, 

9 large eggs, 

1 square Baker's chocolate 

1-3 cup almonds, blanched and chopped, 

A few grains is less than one-eighth teaspoon. 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons flour, 



ounce 

c< 



494 



KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 





8 




8 




S 


' 88888888888888888888888888888 


8 




8 


8^88S;88688$:88^S8S;88e88!:88ISS8& 


8 


g 


8 


688^88e88^88&88&88^88^88^S8e8 


s 




8 


8S38^^^9^R86:8S3SoSSC$8^88gS^!^Sf5^ 


Ok 

s 


H 

§ 


00 


8SS888S888eS88888888888388S88 


s 


< 


£ 


6SgC;886:SSe88S588888l^88^88!:;{S8S59 


s 


s 


S;&8Seaf3S3S8S58S$88B8S^8fSC^8aS5$8;; 

d^f-«cie««d^Wieie«D«t«'aoaBOkOkgg^^ojc4«<jco^^*3 


2 


O 

1 


§ 


88888888888888888888888888888 

d^^-«cid«^*^ddd«Vr;««)oJo;gg;4;5C5e5ggs;5 


s 


Ex 


S 


^88S588E;r!a^S8BS8988&S8S;l38e98&S 

dd^-4e•ci•o•i^^d«d•^:r.Vap•d•go;H^5C3ej•355 




s 


8S58r!!:88;$88t:88BS8tS88eSSS;88i;S9& 

d df-i tH e« ei M«o«o W Wmsio <D« « t<^ r<>'«ofl6 Ok »»g^;j;;4C« cj 


s 


S 


3 


88888388888888898888388888888 

dd^^eieieidd^^^d.odddr:r:ddddd^sd;j;j 






S 


l5f3S$88&88^88t:S8SS88S;8g&88^88E«8 

dd«-ii-t^c«e«ci«OM^^^'iddiedd<Dt>.'t«'aodaoddd^d 






§ 


8^88^88(288^88^88^881088^88^88^ 

ddp4f-i^cie«e«Mw«9WV^ieioiedddt«Vt<^aBaofldddd 


§ 




j 


•^•••^'••^••^••ais»S2i2SMSJ5si«ax»»55W 


1 

o 









USEFUL INFORMATION. 


495 




1 




i 




8 


S388e88!38SiS88!?8S688^88e88£s88e8 
«'«^^SSgil^8SS899^SS8^8888FisS?iSSSBSS 


8 




S 


88888888888888888888888888888 


8 


i 


s 


8^S8S^88^88$;88(oS8S886S8S^88e88S: 


8 


s 


^88e88^88(D88(S88^a8<SS8<288<288lo8 

«««sasass8gi^ste55i!85Ssss3S88fisf: 


§ 


o 

g 

■4\ 


s 


88S8S8S888S88888S8S888S8S8S8S 


g 


§ 


8^88(o88^88(588^88^88(o8a^88&88lD 


§ 


S 


s 


S^88688£;SS^88$;8S688&88lS88S:88(o8 


8 


o 


s 


88888888888888888888888888888 
<^^««SSSSSSSiS8888S8S8^9'^9SS2SS 


8 


9 

?5 


s 


8^88S:88^S8S?88e88&88^S8£388(SS8$; 


8 


s 


^88(S88^88^88(o88^88^88^88^88^8 


8 


5 


3 


8888S8S8S888S888S8888888S8S8S 


3 




3 


8^88(S88^88^88^88^88lo88^88^88^ 
^o.'^«««o;geJs;SS£;S8d»s'l^88gi8S38 


3 




1 


* 


m^^im^mmr^mt 


»::S!SSsis::ss8s:KR; 


i^iriSKsssi 


t 





INDEX 



Page 

PREFACB 8 

CHAPTER I— HOW TO SBBVB DINNERS— 

Styles of Serving Heals 6 

English Service 6 

Serving Dinner, English Style 6 

Serving Soup at Dinner, English Style 7 

Points to be Remembered in Serving Meals After The 

English Style 8 

CHAPTER II— HOW TO SERVE DINNERS— 

Serving Dinner, Russian Fashion 9 

Laying The Dinner Table for Russian Service 9 

Model Dinner Meno 11 

Serving the Soap 12 

Serving Fish 13 

Serving Entree 14 

Serving the Crown of Lamb and Vegetables 14 

Serving Artichokes 16 

Serving the Pnnch 15 

Serving the Game Course 15 

Serving the Dessert 16 

CHAPTER III— HOW TO SERVE WINES— 

The Service of Wines 19 

Temperature at which Wines Should be Served 20 

CHAPTER IV— HOW TO SERVE LUNCHEONS— 

Style of Serving Luncheons 28 

Menu 28 

Laying the Table 28 

The Side Table When Luncheon is Announced 24 

The Table When Luncheon is Announced 25 

Removing the Grape Fruit Course 25 

Serving the Bouillon 25 

Serving and Clearing Away the Oysters 26 

Serving the Timbales 26 

Serving the Filets of Beef and Potatoes 27 

Serving the Salad 27 

Serving the Sweet Course 27 

Coffee Served in Library 28 

Creme de Menthe Served in Library 29 

CHAPTER V— HOW TO SERVE AFTERNOON TEA— 

Serving Afternoon Tea 81 



498 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



CIIAPTBR VI— HOW TO 8BRVB FRUIT— Page 

Serrinir of Fruit 35 

Ad Artistic Way to Serre Strawberries 85 

Preparing Grape Fruit for Breakfast 96 

Grape Fruit with Hacedolne of Fruit for a First Course 

at Luncheon 36 

Salplcon of Fruit, Waldorf-Astoria Style 37 

Serving Watermelon Without Rind 37 

Other Ways of Serrlng Watermelon 38 

Serving Huskmelons 88 

Miscellaneous Fruits 38 

CHAPTER VII— CANAPB8 AND HORS d'OBUVRBS— 

Broiled Sardine Canapes 40 

Canape a la Prince 40 

Caviar Canape 39 

Cftvlar Toast 39 

Delicious Appetisers 39 

Fruit CockUil 44 

Grape Fruit 43-44 

Hors d'Oeuvres of Herring 42 

Oyster Canape 41 

Pate de Fols Canapes 40 

Sardine Canapes 42 

Sardines with Eggs 41 

Tomatoes with Anchovies 41 

Tomato Caviar 43 

Tomato Flowers 43 

CIIAPTBR VIII— now TO MAKE SOUPS— 

Asparagus Soup S2 

Bi'cf Bouillon 66 

Blnrk Bean Soup 66 

Itoiiillon a la Bellevue 6B 

Bouillon a la Rnsse 66 

Chicken a la Relne 51 

Chicken Bouillon 6T 

Chicken Gumbo Soup 50 

Clam Bisque Soup 60 

Clam Bouillon 68 

(""lam Chowder 63 

Clam Soup 60-64 

Cream of Celery Soup 54 

Cream of Onion Soup 68 

Consomme 66 

Consomme aux Pates 66 

Consomme Oolbert 66 

Consomme Princess 66 

Consomme With Vegetables 66 

Com Soup 62 

Du Barry Soup 66 

Fish Chowder 63 

Green Gumbo Soup 62 



INDEX. 499 

How to Clear Soup Stock 49 

How to Bind Sonpa 50 

How to Senre Franco-Americau Soup 51 

Julienne Soup 54 

Mushroom Soup 64 

Noodle Soup 50 

Okra Gumbo Soup f4 

Old Fashioned Beef Soup 58 

Oyster Soup ttl 

Pepper Pot 61 

Pot an Feu Soup 53 

Potato Soup 5T 

Princess Soup 56 

Salmon Bisque 58 

Soup Making 46 

Sou ps 46 

Spilt Pea Soup 57 

Swiss Bice Soup 66 

Tomato Soup 53-64-65 

Turkey Soup 62 

White Beau Soup 62 

CHAPTBR IX— FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTBBS, TBRBAPIN— 

Baked Blue Fish 79 

Baked Filets of Flounder 78 

Baked Fresh Codfish, with Cheese Saoce 80 

Baked Mackerel with Cream, i 81 

Baked Smelts 81 

Baked Trout with Shrimp Sauce 79 

Boiled Fresh Cod Fish 71 

Boiled Red Snapper 73 

Boiled Salmon 70 

Broiled Fish, Latticed Potatoes 75 

Broiled Shad Roes 76 

Broiled Shad with Sauce Piquante 75 

Broiled Smelts 76 

Broiled Trout 76 

Canape Lorenso 106 

Clam Cocktails 90 

Clam Fritters 96 

Clam Pie 97 

Cod Fish Balls 89 

Cod Fish Croquettes '. 80 

Cod Fish or Halibut with Oyster Sauce 72 

Court Bouillon for All Sorts of Fresh Water Fish 70 

Crab RaTlgote 106 

Creamed Lobster 101 

Deviled Crabs 101 

Deviled Lobster 101 

Deviled Oysters 94 

Egg Sauce for Boiled Codfish 71 

Finnan Haddle 73-77 



500 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Pafe 

FlHh Filets, Sauce Tartare 89 

Fried Oysters 93 

Fried Scallops 86 

Fried Smelts a la Parisienne 84 

Fried Shad Boes 86 

Fried Smoked Salmon 86 

Fried Soft Shell Crabs 104 

Fried White Bait 86 

Frogs Legs, Fried 88 

Grilled Oysters 96 

Halibut and Oysters 82 

Halibut Cutlets 88 

How to Boll a Lobster 99 

Kromlskies of Oysters 98 

Little Pigs In Blankets 92 

Lobster a la Newbargh 99-100 

Lobster Croquettes 100 

Lobster CuUets 102 

Lobster Chops 102 

Lobster PatUes 108 

Lobster Timbale 103 

Maryland Stewed Oysters 96 

Oyster Cocktails 89-90 

Oyster Croquettes 92 

Oyster or Clam Fritters 91 

Oyster Pies 96 

Oysters Scalloped with Spaghetti 94 

Oysters with Sherry 90 

Planked Shad 77 

Potted Shad 82 

Roe Herring, Smoked 77 

Salmon SaTory 78 

Salt Mackerel 81 

Scallop Patties 87 

Scalloped Oysters. 94 

Slices of Cod, a la Seyille 88 

Soft Clams 91 

Soft Clams a la Newburgh 91 

Sole with Mussel Sauce 87 

Steamed Oysters or Clams in Shell 96 

Stewed Eels 71 

Stewed Terrapin * 106 

Terrapin a la Chamberlin 107 

Timbale of Fish 74 

To Open a Boiled Lobster 96 

Trout, Fried 87 

CHAPTBB X^BNTBBBS— 

A la Mode Beef 126 

Baked Macaroni and Oysters 181 

Beef Loaf 127 

Braised Lambs Tongues 190 



INDEX. 501 

Broiled Kidneys iS 

Broiled Mushrooms 118 

Calfs Brains a la Vinaigrette 185 

Casserole of Lamb Chops and Chestnuts Ill 

Chicken and Rice Timbale 124 

Chicken Casserole 120 

Chicken Livers en Brochette with Bacon 118 

Chicken or Sweetbread Mousse 122 

Chicken Pie 128 

Chicken with White Sauce 122 

Chops in Paper HI 

Club Steak 125 

Cream Chicken or Sweetbreads with Border of Rice 120 

Cro<iuettes of Sweetbreads 116 

Curry of Lamb with Asparagus Tops 186 

Bggs a la Benedictine 185 

Bgg4 Co<H>tte a la Creme 184 

Eggs with Celery 184 

English Mutton Chops en Casserole 186 

Pllet of Beef with Mushroom Sauce 186 

Green Peppers Stuffed with Nuts 119 

Green Peppers with Chicken 119 

Ham Tlmbales 18a 

Uungarian Goulash 1S2 

Jellied Chicken 127 

Jellied Veal Mousse 180 

Liver Rolls 188 

Marrow Toast 132 

Mushrooms under Glass : 113 

Mushrooms with Sweetbread Filling for Patties 115 

Rolled Tmigue 126 

Shells of Chicken 118 

Spanish Egg Plant 120 

Stuffed Chops 112 

Stuffed Cutlets, Cold 112 

Stuffed Green Peppers, Sweet 118 

Stuffed Mushrooms 114 

Stuffed Peppers 119 

Sweetbreads a la Creme 117 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 114 

Sweetbreads in Peppers 116 

Sweetbreads Larded and Baked 115 

Timbale of Chicken 12S 

Timbale of Macaroni 128 

Timbale of Spaghetti 128 

Timbale of Tongue with Sauce 181 

Veal Loaf 127 

Veal Mousse 129 

Veal or Chicken Croquettes 121 

, Veal or Chicken Souffle 121 

Veal Pie 182 

Vol-au-Vent or Booche a la Beine 124 

Water Wave 124 



502 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



CHAPTER XI— MBAT&- Page 

An Enfflish Pork Pie 162 

Baked Tripe 1«3 

Beef a U Mode 144 

Be€*fftteak and Pried Onions 146 

Bollwl Ham 1«7 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 151 

Broiled FUet of Beef 145 

Broiled Steak 145 

Broiled Steak with Marrow 147 

Casserole of Lamb Chops 160 

Chine of Pork Braised with Apples 161 

Corned Beef 144 

Crown of Lamb 148 

Crown of Pork 160 

Family Stew of Lamb and Peas 150 

Ham, Sonthem Style 158 

Hind Quarter of Spring Lamb 140 

Lamb and Mntton 148 

Lamb or Beef Stew 168 

Larded Veal 156 

Lyonnalse Tripe 164 

Mint Jelly to Serve with Lamb 164-166 

Mutton Chops Breaded, with Cheese 152 

Pickled Tripe 164 

Pork 156 

Pork Tenderloins 161 

Pot Roast 142-143 

KoQst Beef 130-140 

Roast Ham with Champagne Sauce 167 

Roast Leg of Veal 164 

Roast Mutton, Breton Style 162 

Roast Pig 150 

Boast Pork 160 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 162 

Scalloped I^mb 153 

Shoulder of Veal 155 

Soused Pigs Feet 102 

Steak a la Stanley 146 

Steak en Casserole 146 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb 151 

Sacking Pig a la Russe with Horseradish Sauce 160 

To Boll a Ham 158 

Tripe In Batter 163 

Tripe Rolls 163 

Veal 153 

Veal Cutlets 155 

Veal Steaks with Mushroom Sauce 155 

WeBtphallan Ham 158 

Yorkshire Pudding 141-142 



INDEX. 503 



CriAPTBR XII— POULTRY AND 6AMB— Page 

BeIa8co*8 Salmi of Goose 186 

Boiled Fowls 176 

Braised Gosllugs 189 

Bread Dressing for Torkey 172 

Broiled Chicken 178 

Broiled Partridge 190 

Broiled Pheasant 191 

Broiled Plovers 191 

Broiled Quails ^ 193 

Broiled Reedblrds 194 

Broiled Snipes 194 

Broiled Woodcocks 194 

Brown Prlcassee 177 

Canvasback Ducks, Broiled 197 

Canyasback Ducks, Boasted 197 

Chestnut StulTlng for Turkey 173 

Chicken, Baltimore Style 181 

Chicken Curry 181 

Chicken Livers on Skewers 179 

Chicken Pot Pie 182 

Cleaning a Goose 187 

Curried Chicken 179-180 

Deviled Turkey Legs 175 

Escalloped Chicken 179 

Fricasseed Chicken 176 

Larded Quails 193 

Oyster Stuffing for Turkey 172 

Pollado de Polio (Siwnlsh Dish) 184 

Potted Chicken 183 

Poultry and Game 167 

Preparation and Cooking of a Turkey 160 

Roast Chicken 175 

Roast Duck 184-185 

Roast Goose 187 

Roast Goose Stuffed with Chestnuts 188 

Roast Turkey with Oysters , . 173 

Roast Venison 197 

Roasted Partridge 190 

Roasted Plovers 191 

Roasted Prairie Chicken 192 

, Roasted Quails 198 

' Roasted Snipes 105 

Roasted Woodcocks 196 

Salmi of Duck 185 

Sausage Dressing for Turkey 172 

Smothered Chicken 176 

Squabs on Toast 104 

Turkey Loaf 175 

Turkey, Scalloped 174 

Virginia Fried Chicken 180^181 

Virginia Stewed Chicken 188 

Walnut Croquettes 186 



504 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



CHAPTER XIII^-SAIiADS— Pa 

A Pew Combinations 2 

Alligator Pear Salad 240-2 

Apple, Celery and BnglUh Walnnt Salad 2 

Apple Salad 2 

Artichoke SaUd 2 

Asparagus Salad 207-2 

Aspic for Oamlshlng 2 

Aspic Jelly 2 

Banana Salad 236-S 

Blueflsh Salad '. 2 

Boiled and Cream Dressings 2 

Cabbage Salad 205-1 

California Cherry Salad S 

Cantaloupe Salad *^ 

Cauliflower Salad 2 

Cauliflower Salad in Bed Pepper Shells S 

Celery and Chestnut Salad S 

Cherry Salad s ' 

Cheese and Celery Salad ' 

Cheese Salad 2 

Chicken Salad J 

Chicken Salad for Twenty People ' 

Chicken Salad Jelly i 

Cold Meat and Potato Salad ! 

Com Salad : 

Cranberry and Cheese Salad 

Cream Cheese Salad • 2 

(^ream Dressing for Pmlt Salads i 

Cream Salad Dressing : 

Cress, Cucumber and Tomato Salad 2 

Cucumber Jelly Salad 2 

Cucumber Salad : 

Daisy Salad : 

Decoy Salad 

Duck and Olire Salad 

Duck and Orange Salad 

Egg Salad : 

Egyptian Salad 

Endive Salad : 

Endive, Tomato and Green String Bean Salad 

For the Salad Course 

French Dressing 

French Salad Dressing 

Fruit and Nut Salad 

Fruit SaUd 2S4, ! 

Fruit Salad with Cooked Dressing 

Grand Union Salad 

Grape Fruit Salad I 

Green and White Salad 

Green Pea and Potato Salad 

Green Pea Salad 

Halibut Salad with Cucumber Spirals 



INDEX. ^ 505 



Pase 

Ham Salad 22i 

How to Prepare and Use Aspic Jelly 226 

Important Points In Salad Making 201 

Italian Salad ! 225 

Knmqnot Salad 234 

Lettuce for Salad 206 

Lettuce Salad 209 

Lettuce Salad with Cheese Balls 224 

Lobster Salad 228 

Mayonnaise Dressing 203-204-206.220 

New Salads 240 

Norwegian Salad 212 

Orange Hnd Utchi Nut Salad 236 

Orange and Spanish Pepper Salad 285 

Orange and Walnut Salad 235 

Oyster and Cucumber Salad 228 

Oyster and Sweetbread Salad 220 

Oyster Salad 228 

Peach and Almond Salad 230 

Peach Salad 234 

Peanut Salad 213 

Pepper and Onion Salad 213 

Pineapple Salad 239 

Potato Salad 200-210-211 

Russian Salad 215 

Salad Chlffonade 222 

Salads 223 

Sardine Salad 230 

ScaUop Salad 230 

Shad Roe Salad 232 

Shrimp Salad 229 

Spinach Salad 206 

Stuffed BeeU 223 

Stuffed BadUhes 232 

Summer Salad 237 

Sweetbread Salad 210 

The Dressing 190 

To Chop Jelly 227 

Tomato Aspic 207 

Tomato and Artichoke Salad 215 

Tomato and Cheese Salad 218 

Tomato and String Bean Salad 217 

Tomato Jelly 216 

Tomato Jelly with String Beans 217 

Tomato Salad In Cucumber Shells 216 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Nuts and Celery 210 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cucumbers 214 

Turkey and Chestnut Salad .* 221 

Turquoise Salad 222 

Union Club Dressing 204 

Use of Dressings 20O 



506 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



Page 
When to Serve Salads with French or Mayoanaise 

I >re88ins 201 

WnWorf Nut Salad 212 

Yankee Salad 225 

rilAPTER XIV— SAUCES- 

Anchovy Sauce 243 

Apple Sauce 254 

Beamalse Sauce 247 

Bechamel Sauce 247 

Blgarade Sauce 247 

Brandy Sauce 258 

Bread Sauce 252 

Bi -n Sauce. . . , 251 

Caper Sauce 250 

Cauliflower Sauce 253 

Celery Sauce 251 

Cheeiie Sauce 256 

Chocolate Sauce 258 

Cider Sauce 252 

Clam Sauce 257 

Claret Sauce 259 

Cranberry Sauce 264 

Cream Sauce 244-245 

Creamy Sauce 244 

Curry Sauce 250 

Delicious Sauce for all Kinds of Puddings 257 

Drawn Butter (White Sauce) 24<J 

Kgg Sauce 246-217 

Knpagnole Sauce 255 

KIsh Sauce 25« 

(Ublet Sauce 253 

UoIIaudolHe Sauce 248-249 

HorHeradlab Sauce 24;^ 

Hot Chocolate for Ice Cream 2^ 

Jelly Kiiuce 254 

liO!n«ter Sauce 267 

Madeira Sauce 230 

Maltro d'Hotel Butter 249 

Maitre d'llotel Sauce 249 

Mint Sauce 245 

Onion or SouMhc Sauce 245 

Ornnpe Sauce for Cottage Pudding 258 

I'arsley Sauce 252 

I»ea Sauce 249 

Prince of Wales Sauce 251 

Princess Sauce 251 

Puree of Chestnuts 256 

Kavlgote Sauce 253 

Remoulade Sauce 253 

RuRHian Sauce 246 

Sauce for Chops 250 



INDEX. 507 

Page 

Sauce for Clams (Price's Pleasure Bay) 257 

Sauce for Ice Cream 259 

Sauce for Pudding 259 

Sauce Poulette 245 

Sauce Tartare 252 

The Recipe of a Celebrated New York Chef 260 

Thick White Sauce for Croquettes 244 

Tomato Sauce 243 

Veloute Sauce 255 

Venitlenne Sauce 266 

Vinaigrette Sauce 265 

Wine Sauce 268 

CHAPTER XV— VEGETABLES— ^. ^ 

An Italian Dish of Cabbage 297 

Asparagus 262 

Asparagus au Oratin 283 

Baked Bananas 304 

Baked Beans with Tomato Sauce 291 

Baked Cabbage 296 

Baked Corn in Pepper Cases 205 

Baked Eggplant 295 

Baked Jerusalem Artichokes 293 

Baked Mushrooms. ; 801 

Baked Onions 207 

Baked Potatoes 272 

Banana Sautes 303 

Bananas Fried Whole 803 

Beans Sautes 289 

Boiled Beets 284 

Boiled Jerusalem Artichokes 293 

Boiled Onions 287 

Boiled Potatoes 272 

Boiled Rice 297 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes , 279 

Boston Bake<l Beans 290-291 

Broiled Asparagus 263 

Broiled Green Tomatoes 271 

Broiled Tomatoes 271 

BrusseU Sprouts 282 

Buttered Spinach 283 

Cabbage Dressing.* 297 

Carrots with Cream Sauce 288 

Cauliflower 261 

Cauliflower with Cheese 201 

Chestnuts 302-803 

Chestnut Pudding 802 

Chicory or Spinach 282 

Cold Slaw for Cabbage or Lettuce 297 

Corn 283 

Corn au Gratln 266 

Com Cakes 284 



508 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Page 

Corn Prittera (Price's Pleftrare Baj) 2(R 

Corn in Tomato Cnfw 2(K 

Com Padding 2& 

Crenm PotntoM with Green Peppers 2T 

Creamed Bplnach 28; 

Creamed Sqnash 28. 

Creamed Yoong Beets 28 

French Artichokes 20 

French Fried Potatoes 27 

Fricasseed Cabbage 29( 

Fried Eggplants 2& 

Fried Green Peppers 29i 

Fried Green Tomatoes 27 

Fried Mushrooms 30 

FHed PoUto Hash 27i 

Fried Bnmmer Squash 28 

Fried Tomatoes 20 

Glased Sweet Potatoes 28 

Grilled Tomatoes 27 

Hashed and Browned Potatoes 27 

Hashed Creamed Potato Croquettes 27; 

Henry Ward Beecher's Recipe for Cooking Tomatoes 28 

Hominy Croquettes 30 

Hominy Fritters 30 

Lima Beans 29 

Lima Beans with White Sauce 29 

Lyonnalse Potatoes 27 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 28 

Macaroni (lUllan Style) 28 

Macaroni Rissoles 28 

Mammy Lu*s Bscailoped Tomatoes 26 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes 27 

Mashed Turnips 28 

MUanalse PoUtoes 27 

Mock Fried Oysters 29 

Molded Rice 29 

New PoUtoes 2Q 

Nut and Potato Croquettes 27 

Onions 2fl 

Onions an Gratln 26 

Peas 26 

Peas and Carrots 2£ 

Peas with Onions 28 

Parsnip Croquettes 2C 

Plain Hominy Pudding 26 

Pockets of Gold 21 

Potatoes 21 

Potatoes and Com 21 

Potatoes on the Half SheU 21 

Potatoes Parlslenne 21 

Potatoes with Cheese Sauce 21 

PoUto Croquettes 21 



INDEX. 509 

Pase 

Potato Omelette 277 

PoUto Ribbons 275 

Rice a la Japanese 288 

Rice Croquettes 299 

Root Vegetables , 261 

Saratoga Chips 276 

Saratoga Onions 288 

Savory Boiled Cabbage 2D5 

Scalloped Bananas 804 

Scotch Woodcock 268 

Sonne Pomme de Terre 278 

Spaghetti with Swiss Cheese 288 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 288 

Spanish Rice 280 

Spinach 281 

Spinach, German Style 288 

Squash 285 

Stewed Beans 288 

Stewed Celery 288 

Stewed Cucumbers 262 

Stewed Mushrooms 80O 

Stewed Salsify 288 

Stewed Tomatoes 268 

String Beans 262 

String Beans with New Potatoes 284 

Stuffed Eggplant 284 

Stuffed Onions Creamed 267 

Stuffed Potatoes 278 

Stuffed Tomatoes 268 

Succotash 266 

Sweet Com 264 

Sweet Potatoes au Gratin 278 

Sweet Potatoes en Brochette 279 

Sweet Potatoes in Peppers 280 

Sweet Potato Balls 280 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 280 

To BoU Spinach 282 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Com 270 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Macaroni 270 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Rice 270 

Tumips BoUed, Plain 292 

Vegetable CuUets 802 

Vegetables a la Jardiniere 801 

Young Turnips Stewed with Cream 282 

CHAPTER XVI-CHBESB DISHBS- 

Baked Cheese 810 

Cheesed Tomatoes 809 

Cheese Balls 806 

Cheese Crackers 812 

Cheese Croquettes 818 

Cheese Cutlets 810 



510 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 



Pag 

Cheese Dates 31 

Cheese Entree 80 

Cheese Fingers SI 

Cheese Pnffs 308. 31 

Cheese Rsmakin 30 

Cheese Bameqnlne 30 

Cheese Belish 30 

Cheese Bice 30 

Cheese Bsndwiches 31 

' Cheese Straws 31 

Cheese Tlmhsle 31 

(*reain Cheese 31 

Croutons 30 

Fondu of Parmesan Cheese 31 

Pot Cheese 31 

Sonffle of Fromage 30 

Swiss Rarebit 30 

Toasted Cheese Pudding 31 

Welsh Rarebit 306-80 

CHAPTER XVII-EG08- 

A Luncheon Dish 81 

Baked Eggs 32 

Baked Omelette 32 

Baskets of Olives 32 

Bresd Baskets 31 

DevUcd Eggs S^i 

Egg Baskets 31 

Egg Vermicelli 31 

Eggs a la Bechamel 32 

Eggs au MIroIr SI 

Eggs Tlmbale 3:: 

Eggs with Cheese 31 

Fish Omelette 3.: 

French Omelette 312 

Fried Eggs with Brown Sauce 3^ 

Frlssled Beef and Eggs 32 

Ham Omelette 32 

Nested Eggs 31 

Omelettes 32 

Plain Omelette 32 

Poached Bggs 32 

Raymond Hitchcock's Scrambled Bggs and Cheese 31 

Rum Omelette Xi 

Scrambled Bggs 31 

Scrambled Bggs on Canapes 31 

Scrambled Bggs with Peas 31 

Shirred Eggs 3*- 

Spanlsh Omelette 31 

Stuffed Bggs 31 

Wilton Lackaye's Curried Bggs 31 



INDEX. 511 

CHAPTER XVIII— HOT BREADS— Page 

Adirondack Griddle Cakes 339 

Batter Bread 831 

Boston Brown Bread 341 

Bread 342 

Breakfast Puffs 338 

Breakfast Vanities 333 

Brown Bread 340 

Com Bread 329 

Com Dodgers 380 

Com Muffins 332 

Com-meal Muffins 3S4 

Cora Pudding for Breakfast 382 

Cream Muffins 334 

Crampets 387 

Dutch Dried Biscuit 342 

English Muffins 337 

English Scones 386 

French Rolls 335 

German Pancakes 340 

Graham Muffins 334 

Griddle Cakes 33» 

Hoe-cake 827 

Hot Muffins 333 

Indian Bread 341 

Indian Meal Bread 341 

Johnny Cake 328 

Kentucky Com Dodgers 328 

Maryland Beaten Biscuit 828 

Mrs. Grover Cleveland's Brown Bread 340 

Mrs Kate Smith's Federal Loaf 383 

Muffins 884 

Parker House Rolls 334-385 

Pone 327 

Popovers :f30 

l»ulled Bread 838 

Raised Biscuit , 380 

Rice Griddle Cakes 340 

Rolls for Breakfast 832 

Rye Bread 342 

Sally-Lunn 330«ll 

Southem Beaten Biscuits 331 

Tea Biscuits 331-332 

Thin Cora Bread 388 

Virginia Rice Cora Pone 820 

Waffles 338^330 

CHAPTER XIX— SANDWICHES— 

A Tasty Sandwich 354 

Beet and Cream Cheese Sandwiches 355 

Bread for Sandwiches 348 

Bread Sandwiches 348 

Caviar Sandwiches 343 



512 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Page 

Cheese and Bar-Le-Dnc Currant Sandwiches 858 

Cheeae and Bngllah Walnut Bandwlchea 344 

Cheese Sandwich 852 

Cheatnnt Sandwiches *. 351 

Chicken and Almond Sandwiches 345 

Chicken Mayonnaise 848 

Chicken Sandwiches 345 

Chopped Chicken Sandwiches 345 

Clnb Sandwiches 350 

Corned Beef Sandwiches 348 

Cucnmber Sandwiches 354 

Dinkey Sandwiches 352 

Bgg and Cncamber 348 

rig Sandwiches 357 

French Fmlt Sandwiches 351 

Ham and Kgg Sandwiches 341 

Ham and Ton^e Sandwiches 34< 

Ham Sandwiches 341 

Harleqahi Sandwiches 354, 3K 

Hnnter's Sandwich 35{ 

Lettuce and Mayonnaise Sandwiches 352 

Mnshroom and Lobster Sandwiches 3K 

Nnt and Cheese Sandwiches 34i 

Olive and Cheese Sandwiches 34^ 

Olive Sandwiches 3& 

Onion Sandwiches 351 

Oyster Sandwich Pllllng 35: 

Peanut Sandwiches 35^ 

Pineapple Sandwiches 35 

Pnff Paste Sandwiches 35' 

Roquefort Cheese Sandwich 35 

Russian Sandwiches 35 

Salad Sandwiches 346, 35 

Salmon Sandwiches 35 

Sandwiches 35 

Sardine 35 

Sardine Sandwiches 3S 

Spanish Sandwiches 3S 

Tomato 3^ 

Tongue and Pate De Fole Oras 39 

Tongue and Veal Sandwiches 34 

Tongue Fingers 3^ 

Very Nice Sandwiches 3^ 

Walnut Sandwiches 34 

Watercress Sandwiches 3! 

CHAPTER XX-DESSERTS— 

PUDDINGS— 

A DeUdous Pudding with Apples 3< 

Amethyst Pudding with Golden Sauce 31 

Angel Pudding 9 

Apple Dumplings 3i 



INDEX. 513 

Page 

A Quick and Simple Dessert 870 

Baked Custard 871 

Bavarian Cream 874-875 

Bird's Nest Padding 864 

Biscuit Glace 892 

Bisque Loaf 881 

Bisque Tortoni 893 

Bread Pudding 868 

Cafe Frappe 894 

Cafe Parfalt 894 

Charlotte Russe 877 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 872 

Chocolate Ice Cream 382 

Chocolate Pudding 874 

Chocolate Sauce for Vanilla Ice Cream 394 

Chocolate Whips 870 

Christmas Ice Cream 884 

Coffee Ice Cream 881 

Coffee Mousse 888-889 

Cottage Pudding 365 

Crushed Strawberry Ice Cream 886 

Currant Sherbet. 391 

Custard Souffle 872 

Date Pudding 860 

Date Souffle 862 

Bnglish Plum Padding 365 

Fig and Banana Mousse 889 

Fig Pudding 860 

Fine Blanc Mange 876 

Floating Island 372 

French Charlotte 877 

Frosen Apricqts 386 

Frosen Caramel Custard 380 

Frozen Nut Pudding 884 

Fruit Pudding 866 

German Puffs 865 

Honey Apples 868 

Hot Maple Sauce for Vanilla Ice Cream 395 

Huckleberry Pudding 869 

Ice Cream 880 

Ice Cream with Crushed Fruit 387 

Italian Cream 376 

Junket 878 

Junket with Puree of Bananas 374 

Lalla Rookh Punch 391 

Lemon Pudding 366-867 

Lemon Sherbet 380 

Macaroon Ice Cream 880 

Macaroon Mousse 888 

Macaroon Pudding 880 

Meringue 878, 887 

Mother's Philadelphia Ice Cream 379 

Nesselrode Pudding ^ , 888 



614 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Pag 

Ormngre and Banana Mertngne Olace 39 

Orange Ice 38 

Orange Mooaae 3S 

Orange Podding 8fl 

Peach Dnmpllttga 36 

Peach Ice Cream 3fi 

Pear Dessert 37 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 37 

Pineapple Bonffle 87 

Platache Ice Cream 3S 

Prone Podding 36 

Prone Booffle 36 

Podding Prallnee 36 

Qoeen of Bread Puddings 36 

Queen of Puddings 3ti 

Easpberrj Mousse SH 

Rice Pudding 36 

Boman Punch 38 

Snow Balls 37 

Snow Pudding 37 

Sooirie 37 

Spanish Cream '.. 37 

Steam Bread Pudding 36 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 37 

Strawberrj Mousse 3S 

Strawberrj or Raspberry Parfalt 3S 

Strawberry Punch 36 

Strawberry Sauce for Vanilla Cream 39 

Strawberry Sherbet » 

Suet Podding 3t 

Tapioca Cream 3* 

Tortoni 3S 

To Use Stale Cake 3^ 

Tuttt FrutU Ice Cream 3f 

Tutti PrutU Pudding » 

Tsarina Cream T 

Vanilla Ice Cream 3) 

Walnut and Fig Ice Cream a 

Whole Banana Ice Cream 31 

Wine Jelly 37M! 

FBUrr DBSSBRTS-- 

Cantaloupe a la Buc 

Coffee Jelly 

Froien Oranges 

Ice Cream in Melons , 

Orange Baskets 

Orange Jelly 

Pineapple and Raspberries 

Pineapple and Strawberries 

Pineapple Jardiniere 

Sponge Cake with Fruit 

Wined Peaches 



INDEX. 516 

PIES— Page 

Apple Pie 410 

Bambnry Tarts 418 

Black Raspberry or Blackberry Tarts 407 

Boston Mince Pie 408 

Caramel Pies 413 

Cherry Pie 406 

Cocoannt Pie 407 

Creamed Sweet Apple Pie 410 

Cream Pie 403 

Currant Pie. 4M 

Custard Pie 408 

Filling for Cream Lemon Pie 400 

Huckleberry Pie 407 

Individual Berry Shortcakes 412 

Lemon Cream Pie 409 

Lemon Pie 408-409 

Mincemeat 404-406 

Mince Pie 404 

Mince Pies without Meat 40S 

Mock Mince Pie 406 

Mrs Herbert Clarke's Squash Pies 402 

New England Blue5erry Pie 407 

Old Fashioned Pie Crust 401 

Peach Layer Cake 411 

Peach Pie 408 

Peach Shortcake 41!^ 

Pie Crust 401 

Puff Paste 400 

Pumpkin Pie 402-408 

Bed Raspberry Shortcake 411 

Strawberry Pie 406 

Strawberry Shortcake 411 

Washington Pie 418 

CAKES— 

Almond Cake .424 

Aunt Jane's Fruit Cake 428 

Aunt Jane's Nut Cake 428 

Bayside Jumbles 487 

Black Chocolate Cake 416 

Berwick Sponge Cake 428 

Blueberry Cake 417 

Caramel Cake 421 

Carrie's Fruit Cake 429 

Chocolate Cake 414-415 

Chocolate Filling 428 

Chocolate Jumbles 486 

Chocolate Nut Cake 418 

Cinnamon Buns 440-441 

•Cocoanut Drops 482>483 

Cocoanut Jumbles 486 

Coffee Cake 441 



616 KIRMESS COOK BOOK, 

Pag 

CooklM 437-4a 

CoQsla Polly** White Sponge Cake 42 

Cream Cake 42 

Cream Lajer Cake 41 

Cream Puffs 4! 

Cmllert 

Curled Jnmblea 

Custard Cake 

Dark Chocolate Cake 

Delicate Cake 

DeTU Cake 

DotU Food Cake 

Donghnuta 

FeUcle's Cookies 

Fig Cake 

Filling for Cakes i 

French Loaf Cake i 

Fried Rye Drop Cakes i 

Fmlt Cake 

Fndge Cake 

Ginger Bread 

Ginger Cookies 

Ginger Snaps 

Gold Cake 

Hickory Nat Kisses 

Hot Cross Buns 

India Cake (Spice Cake) 

Jessies 

Kisses 

Luncheon Cookies 

Macaroons 

Macdonald Cake 

Madelines 

Marguerites 

Mocha Cake 421 

Mocha Tart 

Molasses Cake 

Molasses Cake with Apple Sauce 

Molasses Sponge Cake 

New England Nut Cake 

New England Caraway Cakes 

Nnt Cake 

Orange Cake 41 

Orange Layer Cake 

Plstache Cake 

PIsUchio FUling for Cake 

Pound Cake 

Queen's Cake 

Ribbon Cake 

Roll Jelly Cake 

Rush's Sponge Cake 

Rusk 



INDEX. 617 

Page 

Soft Ginger B)read :.. 439 

Spice Cake 4:aMS(M81 

Sponge Cake 426-426-427 

Sansbine Cake 428 

Swedish Oatmeal Cookl^ 487 

Tip Top Cake 428 

CHAPTER XXI^BEVERAGES- 

Baltimore Egg-nogg 448 

Berry Punch 445 

Black Coffee 458 

Blackberry Cordial 481 

Boiled Coffee 457 

Cafe an Lait 458 

Champagne Punch 458 

ChrlBtmaa Egg-nogg 448 

Choca 45T 

Chocolate 455466 

Chocolate Syrup 456 

Cider Cup 460 

Claret Cup 448 

Coffee (enough for 50 after dinner cups) 458 

Cold Cocoa 456 

Egg Lemonade 448 

Fruit Lemonade 448 

Prult Punch 444-446 

Ginger Cordial 461 

Grapefruit Cocktail 446 

Grape Juice 444 

Hot Punch 454 

Iced Coffee 458 

Iced Orange Juice 447 

Iced Tea 460 

Imperial Punch 446 

Kumyaa 464-466 

Louia Sherry's Champagne Punch 452 

Maryland Egg-nogg 440 

MaUooo 456 

May Wine Punch 461 

Milk Punch 452 

Milk Shake 447 

Mint Julep 460 

Mint Punch 468 

Pineapple Punch 446 

Plain Lemonade 448 

Plain Milk Punch 462 

Raspberry Cordial 400 

Rhine Wine Cup 460 

Root Beer 460 

Russian Punch 464 

Russian Tea 468 

Sherry Cobbler 461 



618 KIRMESS COOK BOOK. 

Pftg< 

Southern Claret Punch 44 

Southern Bgg-nogg 44 

Spuilah Cvp 45 

Tea 48 

Tea Punch 447-44 

1\> Make Champagne Claret and Cider Cup 4fl 

CHAPTBB XXII--CANDIB8 AND SAI/TBD NUTS- 

Butter Scotch 4» 

Candled Orange Peel or Grape Fmlt 4) 

Candled Violets 4 

Chocolate Caramels 4 

Chocolate Coating for Creams 4 

Chocolate Creams 4 

Chocolate Fudge 4 

Chocolate Kashmallows i 

CoGoanut Cream Candy i 

Coffee Creams i 

Delicious Cream Taffy * 

Fudge 

Maple Caramels 

Molasses Taffy 

Molasses Walnut Candy 

Peanut BrltUe 

Penochle 40& 

Salted Almonds 460 

Stuffed Dates 

To Crystallse Nuts or Oranges 

Walnut Candy 

Walnut Fudge 

CHAPTBB XXIII— CHAFING DISH DAINTIBS— 

Asparagus Peas 

Chicken with Mushrooms 

Chopped Beef 

Clams a la Newburgh 

Curried Oysters < 

Curried Vegetables 

Denied Beef 

Bggs 

Bggs a la Maltre D'Hotel 

Finnan Haddle for the Chafing Dish 

Fresh Mushrooms and Sweetbreads 

Fricassee of Oysters 

Golden Buck 

Kornlet Oysters 

Lobster a la Newburgh 4' 

Mushroom Cromeskies i 

Oyster Cromeskies 

Oyster Bareblt 

Oyster Saute 



^ INDEX. 619 

Page 

Oysters 471-478 

Peimed Oysters 472 

Panned Oysters with Maltre D'Hotel Butter 472 

Plain Lobster 474 

PoUtoes a la Maltre D'Hotel 478 

Sardine Baieblt 488 

Saute of Mushrooms 479 

Scrambled Bggs a la Union Club 478 

Scrambled Bggs with Cheese 475 

Scrambled Bggs with Dried Beef 476 

Scrambled Bggs with Smoked Salmon 476 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes 476 

Shirred Bggs 477 

Shrimps » 473 

Shrimps a la Newburgh 474 

Sweetbreads Sauted 480 

Tomato Rarebit 479 

Welsh Earebit 482 

White Hashed PoUtoes 478 

CHAPTBB XXIV-USBFUL INFORMATION^ 

Rules for Boiling Meat 485 

To Broil Meat WeU 486 

Rules for Roasting Meat 486 

Read this Advice 486 

Time Table for Cooking 487 

BoUlng 487-488 

Baking and Roasting 489 

Frying 480 

Steaming 480 

Broiling 480 

Table of Proportions 491 

Proportions 401 

Weights and Measures 402 

Table of Measures and Weights. 498 

Pay Table 404-186 




COLGATE & CO.'S 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

ABSOLUTELY PURE 



P twenty-nine brandf of Lemon Bxtrset reoently enelyzed 

OColgete'i Lemon Bztrset wes one of the teren found to 
be ebtolutely pure. Besides bein| legally pure, it wes 
proved to oontein 8.83 per^oent. of Oil of Lemon, or 3.83 
per oent. over end above the 5 per oeat. required by 
United States Government OfBeial Pood Standards. 
Colgate's Vanilla Bztraet was also proved, in the same 
investigation, to be one of the eight pure eztraets out of the sixteen 
brands analyzed. These eztraets give to oooking a delieious flavor. To 
buy inferior grades is poor economy, for not only are the Ingredients 
doubtful, but a larger quantity is often required to obtain a flavor. Our 
brands are guaranteed under the United States Pure Pood and Drugs 
Aot. Look for our guaranty number. No. 1806. 



THE NAME -• 



^ STAND J 
FOR EVERYTHING THAT IS 

GOOD -FRESH- PUR 

AND DELICIOUS 
IN CANDY. COCO. 





AND CHOCOLATE 




ON SALE AT OUR STORE 

NO SALES AGENTS EVERVWUI 



€a\till'e ibvttiHl Coffee 



J. & W. Cahill & Co. 



IMPORTERS 



l^t&s anil 
Cotters 



♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ 



28 EXCHANGE PLACE 
92 MO^f^CELLO AVENUE 
JERSEY CITY, N. J. 



213 BERGENUNE AVENUE 94 FRONT STREET 

Union Hill, N. J. New York 



••iTftonn anh Cattcc Baaitiiia 9tuA 

to 1?n&0oti 191. to ftng t^L. I^oftpknt. 0, % 



I 



N all receipts In this book calling for 
baklne powder use "* Royal/' Better 
and finer food will be the result, and 
you will safeguard It against alum. 

In receipts calling for one teaspoonful of 
foda and two of cream of tanar, use two 
spoonfuls of Royal, and leave the cream of 
tartar and soda out. You get the better food 
and save much trouble and guess work. 

Look out for alum baking powders. Do 
not permit them to come into your house 
under any consideration. They add an in* 
furious substance to your food, destroying 
in pan its digestibility. All doctors will tell 
you this, and it is unquestionable. The use 
of alum in whiskey is absolutely prohibited ; 
why not equally protect the food of our 
women and children? 

Alum baking powders may be known by 
their price. Baking powders at a cent an 
ounce or ten or twenty-five cents a pound 
are made from alum. Avoid them. Use no 
baking powder unless the label shows it is 
made from cream of tanar. 



USE 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Tablets 

FOR SALE AT ALL GROCERS AND 
DRUGGISTS. TEN TABLETS FOR 
TEN CENTS. THEY MAKE THE 
BEST JUNKET AND THE RICHEST 
ICE CREAM 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Colors 



Chr. Hansen's Junket Flavors 

TEN AND TWENTY CENTS EACH 

Chr. Hansen's Laboratory, x/rrij? palls, n^y. 



Mrs. Lambert, A^Q- 7 Oak street, Jersey City 
PROFESSIONAL COOK 



SERVES DINNERS, LUNCHEONS 

SUNDAY NIGHT TEAS 

AT YOUR HOME 



ORDERS SOUCITED FOR HOME-MADE BREAD. ROLLS. CAKES. 

PUDDINGS. PIES. CREAMS. ETC. DELIVERED 

AT YOUR RESIDENCE 

rinn— Miiaii bf lira. P. D. Gray 



PERLMUTTERS' NEW STORE 

WITH ITS 

TWO BIG SHOW WINDOWS 



THE new Newark Avenue is about 
to be ftill further beautified by 
one of the fineat atore buildings 
in New Jersey, and plans for the 
building have just been completed by 
Architects John T. Rowland. Jr., and 
Frank Enrich. Jr. Harry and Joseph 
Perlmntter. two young men who have 
accofllplished much in retail merch- 
andising in Jersey City by their novel 
and up-to-date methods, will build 
this magnificent structure at 17s and 
177 Newark Avenue, between Barrow 
Street and Jersey Avenue, and direct- 
ly opposite the new Keith-Proctor 
Theatre, itself a splendid building. 

The new building, which will have 
a frontage of 50 feet and a uniform 
depth of 136 feet, will be three stories 
high, with an exceptionally deep 
basement, and will have an orna- 
mental front of raised terra cotta 
brick, which will be very unique and 
in itself attract attention to the build- 
ing. This terra cotta front will be 
further ornamented by colored trim- 
mings, likewise of terra cotta. and 
constituting a form of decoration that 
is now being used very extensively 
in the large New York buildings. 

The interior of the building will be fitted 
up in the most approved and modem man- 
ner, and every feature for the comfort of 
the shopper that mpdem ingenuity can 
devise will be introduced in the big 
building. No expense will be spared in 
either the fixtures or the furnishings, and 
from basement to loft there will be noth- 
ing that is not the equal, if not the supe- 
rior, of any New York store. Further 
than this, there will not be a post in the 
building— a feature that will be greatly 
appreciated by the shoppers, who are 
forced to dodge these obstacles in other 
stores. 

There will be two large elevators from 
the top to the bottom of the building, and 
the whole structure will be brilliantly 
lighted by electricity. There are many 
features that have not as yet been made 
known that will come as a 'surprise to^the 




OCTOBER. 19Q7 

shopping public, but there is no Jioubt of 
the fact that the store will surpass any- 
thing in the State, and that the coming 
business block of Newark Avenue will 
receive its most valuable addition with 
this building. 

The reputation of the Perlmutter store, 
which was started in 1869. and since then 
has been one of the leaders in its line hi the 
State, is such as to insure the public that 
they are about to have a shopping em- 
porium here that will compel them to 
patronize home trade, and induce many 
who are now going to New York for their 
shopping to remain at home and buy their 
goods here. The motto that the Perl- 
mutter store has adopted. " If we show it, 
it's right." will be as apt as ever in the 
new store which will be built in so short a 
time on the new site. 



1 



